

pss.:v|
mm
®JiS"
liiil
fillS
D
©
D
alii s
f;3 r ?'
ifeaiSilSi
111
f
ill
II
m
•A i
.ft;?
'mU4s ji-.ij,
Bk
I
£/wl »' $! |
Ifi&mMvh'.i i
Hi
■ *•
§Bll5
*
........ •’
malm
mt hv *
111
->
mm
K? §g
ffife*- - wft
- •
7V<
f m J
X; W
5^
£ij\
#£*V
m
■BnmaMHUHHMHUH
The Bulletin
Afvzcudl Jkwxd %iP.Ksisl \\lnlalhk /Secticnx,—ULlc vwek.
Vol. 50.—N0. 2594.
Wednesday, October 30, 1929.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


HTHE 1929 LIBRARY CATALOGUE is
* now ready, and will be forwarded post
free, with full terms and particulars, on
application to
DYMOCK’S IBOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE TIMES LITERARY SUPPLEMENT
posted weekly for ono year, 17/4.
THE TIMES WEEKLY EDITION, weekly
25/> per annum.
Address Subscriptions to THE TIMES
(Australian Office),
255 a George Street, Sydney.
I
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street,- Melbourne,
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Fame
My Address
S.B
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
V—
rP
HW 3
The Bulletin
STAMMERING AND STUTTERING
CAN BE CURED IN YOUR OWN HOME
Send TO-DAY for particulars of “Perfect Speech” and copies of letters from
those Who have been cured. Philip O’Bryen Hoare, M.8.1.M.5c. (London) (The
Stammerers’ Friend), Specialist in Public Speaking and the Cure of Stammering
and Stuttering.
ADDRESS:
56 BRISBANE ARCADE, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
P.O. Bex 1142 P.
V 5
FULL OF
VIM AND
VIGOUR
Good-Bye
Rheumatism
The cause of backache and rheumatic aches
and pains is uric acid. Drive the uric poisons
from the system and you are fit and well at
once. To do this the one sure, safe way is
to take Harrison’s Pills, the signed remedy
of.a London doctor. No matter how many
things have failed you, a few doses of
Harrison’s Pills will make a marked improve-
ment, clearly showing their wonderful power
of restoring youth to ageing men and women.
One user says: “.Never known such quick
Backache, Swollen Joints, or Weak, Tired Feelingl
relief. They soothe all the pain away and
leave you entirely rejuvenated. Since taking
them I have felt years younger.'” Remember:
there’s nothing to equal this reined}’ for
rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, aches and
pains, swollen joints, or bladder and urinary
disorders. If YOU want to feel 10 to 20
years younger quickly, just get a package cf
Harrison’s Pills from your chemist —three
sizes, at. 2/-, 3/- and 5/-. Money back if not
pleased with the very first bottle.
The Bulletin
Backache
& Bladder
Pills
Remove the
CAUSE
Amalgamated Laboratories, Kembla Building, Sydney, and all High-class Chemists.
The Bulletin
the." VENUS
The first rough suggestion—the skilful
and accurate working out, the sharp
detailed drawings, all the preliminary
planning necessary to the carrying out of
constructive effort, call for the use of VENUS
PENCILS. Whether it be for the building of a
battle-ship or . the design of a simple household
article, the pencil is the first requirement; the
VENUS the first pencil.
17 Blacklead Degrees 68-9 H, sd. each, 4/9 per dozen. Super Copying (Medium and Hard),
6d. each, 5/9 per dozen. Venus Copying (Medium and Hard), 4d. each, 3/9 per dozen.
#sT
the Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania,
Is the only daily effectively covering the North
of Tasmania, where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
part of Tasmania that is prosperous and forging
ahead.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier”
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from;
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Patterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. V. W. Margetts,
122 Flinders Street,
Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
726 Herald Building,
66 Pitt
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
"MUSTDIE" Kills that Fly!
Although “Mustdie” is so
thoroughly destructive to
insect life, it can be used
with absolute safety, as
it is perfectly harmless to
man, beast, fowl and
canaries. Use the “Must-
die” Spreader, for it is
not only economical, but
tikie powder is distributed
mustdie:
NON POISONOUS POWOCR. sA,
THE GREAT IHJEnOOmMR.
riica.
I Fleas,
I Buga.
. MmquilaA
•/-
more effectively, and wt
want you to get the best
results out of every ounce
of this great insect
destroyer.
Sold everywhere, or
forward 1/- in stamps
to Box 1520 G.P.0.,
Sydney. If
The Red Page
Verse and Sound
[This article, now published for the first time,
may be read as practically a statement of David
McKee Wright’s literary faith.]
When Keats said that unheard melodies
were sweeter than those heard he had very
little idea of some of the developments of
verse to-day. One recent writer even de-
clares that the ear has very little to do with
poetry and that a music of thought is the
thing to be desired.
Anybody who will prove that he can
think without words and that words can
exist quite apart from speaking will have
produced something hitherto unknown
among men.
In the vocabularies of most people there,
are certainly words which they rarely or
never speak or hear spoken, but a com-
plete vocabulary of such words, sufficient
for the full round of thought on all sub-
jects, is impossible. The unspoken words
all represent potential speech and the reader
hears them in imagination if not in reality,
The machinery of thought includes the use
of both eye and ear, and as wordless
thought is beyond our power so there is no
thought which could not clothe itself in
sound. Form, color, scent and degrees of
heat and cold produce impressions; but
until those impressions. rise to the level
of expression in words, they are more in
line with the vague instincts ,of animals
than with the actual thinking of human
creatures.
Such impressions are doubtless the rudi-
ments from which thought first sprang. But
in the sense in which thought is used by
the makers of verse they are not really
unheard; they represent, rather, many. full
expressions in words familiar to the: ear.
For this reason soundless verse becomes
something very like
a contradiction in
terms. The sound
of verse may never
be heard, but the
sound exists in clear
imagination, and
verse of which the
sound is not beauti-
ful is wanting in one
of the chief essen-
tials.
Beauty of word
and phrase, of
movement and
sound-effect is so
linked with beauty
and clarity of
thought that ill-
sounding verse with
a movement which
fails to please the
ear, either in reality
or imagination, can-
not possibly contain
thought of sufficient
beauty to atone for
its other sins. Verse
without sound can
no more be a reality
than music without
sound; and verse of
unpleasing sound
can be no finer in
its sphere than discords are in music. That a
harsh line may serve its purpose and express
its idea does not alter the parallel; a dis-
cord also serves its purpose. But neither
verse nor music can be worth while when
entirely out of tune. The harshest line may
indeed have a beauty of its own in relation
to the other lines that are not harsh, but
never because it carries a finer thought.
A great deal of published modern verse
must be entirely brushed aside when judged
by the only standards by which verse can
be judged. The old roads of verse expres-
sion are not merely arbitrary tracks cut in
straight lines across the landscape of
thought. They are the best tracks found
and proved by wayfarers who have trav-
elled them for many centuries. According
to a recent authority, the British race’
has possessed a high civilisation for at least
3500 years. All that time verse method has
been growing, being improved, being
pruned, made stronger', more flexible, more
delicate.
To toss all the gains aside and accept
something as verse which is poorer in all
respects than the crudest early attempts is
not achievement, but plain, wanton destruc-
tion.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.
David Wright—Lyric Poet
For good or ill—and for my own part I
believe it was decidedly for good—David
McKee Wright struck a new note in Aus-
tralian verse. It had been loud and often
enough crude; he softened the tone, made it
gentler and sweeter.
Even his at times affected leaning away
from Australia to Ireland was more health-
ful than otherwise. Australian poets
had had to be, above all, Australian,
as they ought to be in their pic-
torial detail. But they had tried to be
in more than detail; they had strained to
have their work as blatantly local as if it
were written in the shape of a map of the
country. Wright altered that. He wrote,
in Australia, in the shape of a map of
Ireland, and, though that was quite as
superficial a thing to do as writing in the
shape of the other map, it combated that
other superficiality and smashed it for ever.
It gave a lead townrds the exalting of
essence—the indefinable quality which is
poetry and which distinguishes poetry from
prose—the exulting of that quality above
blatant patriotism,'and apart from the lesser
things that often have been and often are
mistaken for it: the expression of some
popular sentiment, the painting of a physical
picture, even the telling of a story. His
singing in Australia in an Irish idiom might
not have been very serviceable to himself,
but, it emphasised the universality of essence
at a time when it had been grievously
neglected, and when telling a story was
accepted as the business of the poet. His
Ireland is a bit of a mock heroic, though
never the noisy one the Australia had been.
But even where it is most obtrusive there is
always music, beauty of words. Melody-
quiet, sometimes muted, as it is—is always
in the first place. In fact, he had the lyric
gift.
There is not much of the red blood of
hot passion in his song, even when it is a
love song, such, for example, as “Morn’s
Desire.’ - with its confident beginning:—
The Young Day combs his yellow hair
Ou the mountains of Morals Desire;
And, oh, but my Love, my Love is fair,
Ariel her heart is a rose of fire! *
Beauty? Anyway,
it sings, though it
does enrage the
materialist, gone,
Heaven knows why,
to poetry, looking
for something he
will never find and
would not know
what to do with if
he did. David
W right himself in
one Red Page re-
view gave an Aus-
tralian verse maker
the title of Last of
the Troubadours,
but if ever anything
recalled the min-
strels it. was David,
with the lute he
must have had
slung, singing on: —
The sea has fingers foamy
white
That fondle the wet,
wet sand ;
But, oh, my Love has a
touch as light
As the lily that is her
hand.
The Young Wind draws
a fiddle-bow
Over mountain, and
. sun, and sea ;
But the voice of my Love is kind and low
With a bridal melody.
And all the world is mine to weaW—
The sen, and the song, and the fire—
For, oh, but my Love, my Love is fair
On' the mountains of Morn’s Desire!
The thought there might not be very deep;
it might possibly be called artificial and the
lyric as a whole a conceit; but there surely
can be no doubt about the loveliness of the
garment; and loveliness for its own sake
was David Wright’s ideal and was what he
set up in* the place of the ballad jinglers’
conception of poetry—a story told with as
much noise as possible, and to hell with
mere beauty of words! lam not thinking
of Lawson there, but I fancy that Lawson,
would have been a finer poet, perhaps at
the unthinkable cost of not being our
greatest prose writer, if he had come after
Wright. Wright—who, incidentally, was a
good critic—called “The Sliprails and the
Spur” the “tenderest and most perfect”
poem that Lawson ever wrote; Tread the
influence of David all through it!
A remarkable thing about Wright was the
even quality of his work and the quantity
of it. He could not write badly, and he
could write at any length about almost
anything. There was an evening in the
Sydney Press Club when'eight or nine well-
known men were gathered together. Each
of them had written enough published verse
to almost beat Swinburne in total length,
and one suggested a sonnet. He started
the thing going with a regulation first line,
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


r
4
\
A
V
r
\
4
A
kite
1 Y>»
*v» *\m v \ V'
fX&r'
v \ . j-\
X• \ ,iC V'/'»>)/H" A<’^, V NN V v
AT
Sporting Requisites
Anthony Horderns'
‘famous low prices
If you do not wish to pay cash at the moment, use the
Purchase System.” You pay cash price only.
Winchester S. S. Rifle. Model 1902, tt.take 22 short or r IS'
cartridge,. Round barrel, 18in. long. Werght, about 31b. 1T 1
Price, 32/6. As above, with elevating sight
5333
Winchester S. S.
1904 model.
long-rifle cartridges,
elevating sight. (YT142.) Price .
Bayard Self-cocking Ejecting Rifle,
short or long cartridges. (YT186.)
De luxe model.
Price
40/-
Chambered for
45/-
Stevens’s Model. .22 Calibre Hammeriess Repeating Rifle Takedow
action, blued frame, with side ejection, safety behmd. Lym
ivory bead front and sporting rear sights. American walnut stock.
Slight grip, with steel but, plate, 24rn ; round, tapered barrel. For
short, long and long-rifle cartridges. Weight, 5,1 b. . '°' J £3/17/6
Price
The Bulletin
Belgian .410 Bore Single-
barrel Collector Gun. Side
lever, folding, walnut
checkered stock, barrel
and mounting black en-
graved. (YT26.)
Price
45/-
The Bulletin
Harrington and Richardson Models —
12-gauge Single-barrelled Gun, Top Lever,
ejector, full choke. Weight, about 61b.
30in. or 32in. Price
410-gauge Single-barrelled Gun, as above.
41b. Price
Automatic
(YT4O.)
5O-
/
507-
Automatic Ejecting, “Heavy Breech” Sin *J e -J?"'” 1
Gun. Finely bored, special steel barrel, full choke,
reinforced breech. A good, well-balanced gun suitable
for trap shooting. Half-pistol grip stock. Weight,
about 7ilb. Price
60/-
Bayard Self Cocking Automatic Ejecting Rifle. 9%
Chambered for short or long cartridges. barrel, full
stock. (YT186.) Price
Bayard .22 Calibre Self Cocking Automatic Ejecting Rifle. Chambered
for short or long cartridges. 19in. barrel. Weight, 3*lb. (T 1
Price
Winchester Rifle. 1890 model. .Made for .22 short, long orMF,;
24in. octagon barrel, ‘takedown p.ain trigger, s ial S l g rl P 13 ~ .
plain wood Weight, 5 fib. (YT144.) Price , ....£5/5/-
CK,, I2G A^nJo^Leve,
proved. (YT63.) With cross bolt. Price £B/ '
Chas. Bowerman’s 12G, D.8.8.L. Hammer G«». B». £9
lever, fitted with Greener’s cross-bolt action. (Y 164.) thrice *■
„, . ~r DB B L Top Lever Gun. Single bolt back action,
S&fiuE: SOOC W. 1., Hb. «ock check-
ered, patent fore-end, case-hardened. (Y 172.) Knee
Stevens’s Single Shot ‘‘Junior Rifle. Take-
down, .22 short, long and long-rifle. /Uin.
barrel. Weight, 2flb. (YT173.) Price, 18/6
Quackenbush Air Rifle.
Nickel-plated barrel,
walnut stock, sliding
action. Complete with
darts, slugs and extrac-
tor. Weight, complete
with box, 4-§ 1 b.,
(YT200.) Price . 67/6
Just Arrived!
Peters Cartridges for Shot Gun or Pea Rifle
12G Victor, 2|in. case. A high-grade
12G Target, 2fin. case. Bulk powder,
12G High Velocity. 2|in. bulk, long
smokeless shell. Per 100
smokeless shell. Per 100
range, hard-hitting. Price,
per 100
18/6
25/-
26/-
Hunting Knives of finest
Sheffield steel. Heavy
blade adapted to stick-
ing and skinning. In
leather sheath.
(YT436.) Price, sin.,
7/6; bin., 8/-; 7in. f
9/-
Dept., Ground Floor. Carriage pend City .and Suburbs only.
The Bulletin
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
’Phone: M 2401,
Day and Night.


fjs
ft
«
m
>
«
fW.;
2
.
M
The Bulletin
INTI
The Bulletin
Time and Test have Proved
its Right to Challenge!
In performance tests of every
description by owners all over
the world Essex the Chal-
lenger has proved its right to
dare. These tests include:
trials of speed, economy,
acceleration, quick stopping,
endurance, hill climbing and
riding ease—plus all the other
important features that mo-
torists demand pf fine motor
cars.
Almost without exception.
Essex Prices at Sydney
Five Balloon Tyres Standard Equipment
Tourer (Australian Body) £290
Standard Roadster (Australian Body) 290
Standard Sedan (Australian Body) .... .. . . 365
Standard Sedan (Imported Body) .. 399
Coupe (Imported Body) . 385
Convertible Coupe (Imported Body) 395
Town Sedan (Imported Body, with Bumper Bars) .. 420
Essex the Challenger, has
demonstrated its superiority,
often against cars far higher
in price. We shall be glad to
have you drive this big, fine
Super-Six yourself —put it to
any test you choose. Thus
you may convince yourself
that here is, indeed, the out-
standing value in all motor-
dom, a car that provides
beauty, performance and fine
car features at low cost.
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Stret, Sydney.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.
AUTOS LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
whatmore, Mclntosh motors, ltd.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
MOTORS LIMITED,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
H. C. HEATHORN 8C CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE-BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.


Business Suit
with special Business-
like features developed
by David Jones\
You’ll like the air of quiet
efficiency that goes with a
David Jones’ Business Man’s
Suit! It’s built' for business
and looks as if it meant it.
Two specially deep vest pockets
for pens 4 and pencils. An
inside ve^t^pocket to provide
safe keeping for your cheque
book. A fob pocket dedicated
to the all-important’ bunch of
keys. We’ve found too, that
most men who s’t at their
work prefer the single-breaster
as being more comfortable.
All David 'Jones’ Business
Suits are art. silk lined, with
fronts prbte&ed from breaking
by the best optima and canvas
inter-linings. Fergusons for
your pocketings, too ! Every-
thing we know of to give
hard wear.
A range of yo patterns
to choose from
MADE - TO - MEASURE
\
%
DAVID JONES’
New Store and George Street Shop
and another of much experience wrote the
second. Then David took a hand, and his
effort was an object lesson to would-be
poets. He had before him two ideas, set
to two rhvme-ends that he had not seen.
He read them; then, without any hesita-
tion, he finished the octave, and made a
poem that any paper in Australia would
have published. Frank Morton was like
that in prose. You could give Morton the
basis of an article; he would not appear to
be listening, but he would go straight to
his typewriter and begin clicking the keys
without a second’s hesitation. All your
ideas would be expressed in what he wrote
and you would not have to tamper with
a line. David was prolific in the same way,
in verse or prose. He used to begin a verse
and go on; and probably even he himself
never had any idea of where it would end.
In his young days David Wright was a
churchman, and his leading articles for The
Bulletin were like that; like sermons.
Good sermons; fluently uttered. It was a
minor belief of David’s that wherever
abundance fell from a writer’s pen there
also was a stroke of genius.
A writer’s “pen”? Most now use a type-
writer; and I notice in a recent booklet
that guides the freelance on the right road
—Gerald Dillon’s “Why Editors Regret”—
that the chief stress of the argument lies
upon the novice getting a typewriter. I
wouldn’t combat that for worlds; but a
regard for veracity compels me to state
that some of the best journalists I know
use a pen and write the most abominable
hands I know. David, who used a pen
always—it was his compromise for a lute—■
wrote a hand that made mere typewriting
shameful to read. It looked like this:—
The “David,” I notice, has forced itself
in often; and it is impossible for anyone
who ever knew him to keep it out.
Anyone who did know him will see
him again in the Low drawing re-
produced here for the first time. The
appearance is the appearance of David
all right, but the nose, the floppiness of the
hat and something of the gait are infinite
exaggerations. A kinder thought and a better
portrait is in the “Irish Heart,” which
Angus and Robertson published in 1918,
and which can be picked up now in good
condition for the shadow of a song. That
other is a better portrait simply because it
is kinder; for gentleness and David Wright
arc inseparables. Even from men inherently
malicious, I have never once heard a bad
word for David as a man. As poet, he
played upon a thin reed, but he played
beautifully.
CECIL MANN.
David McKee Wright: In Memory
Thou liadst thy song—
Mine was the dream
Of one who still must long
Fitly the theme
To shape and know it strong.
Yet though with grace
Song thou didst make,
Deft me is’ still the chase
Whose echoes wake
My solitary place.
Thine was the realm
Of words benign
In silken folds of vellum;
The tempest mine.
Whose bursts my words o’erwhelm.
Thine was’ the throng.
Mine but to dream:
Who ever still must long
Fitly the theme
To measure with thy song.
N.S.W.
MARY GILMORE.
Why Editors Regret
They don’t; but the harmless fiction
makes a catchy title, and prospective or
potential freelances who spend half a crown
on Gerald Dillon’s booklet of that name
should not have any regrets, either. Editors
do not regret, because theirs is the most
impersonal job on earth; they buy what
they want, they turn down what they don’t
want. The best friend in the world ceases
to be a friend when he translates himself
into a piece of paper with words on it.
Having done that, the best friend is a bit
of copy and nothing else.
Mr. Dillon has strong support: Bert F.
Toy, editor of the Woman’s Mirror, and
writer here of a most compact and in-
formative article; Walter Jago, editor of
Aussie —not very informative, but a good
blow where one has been long asked for;
Katharine Susannah Prichard —so so;
Harold Mercer—amusing and encouraging
(he says, “One bit of misleading information
may destroy a growing reputation painfully
built up”; and he writes sermons for sick
clergymen); C. J. Brennan—an excellent
page on light verse; Hugh McCrae—Hugh
McCrae; Edward Perugini—one or two
acute remarks on serious verse; J. H. M.
Abbott—on “historical background” in
fiction (“There are 700 possible separate
characters available amongst the convicts
of the first fleet.” May he be spared to
use the five of them that he has not used
already!); Edyth Bavin, wife of the N.S.W.
Premier—on “writing for children,” which
she herself does charmingly; W. E. Fitz-
Henry, who has grown up in The Bulletin
office and knows as much about marketing
paper with words on it as the next man,
and his brother. A guiding foreword by
S. H. Prior, editor of The Bulletin, and
seven articles by Mr. Dillon covering
pretty well the whole field of freelancing
complete the bill of cont, its.
A Satchel of Books
P sammy for short, Rex, Imp., by Edgar
Dickie (Methuen). The illustrations by
Frank Adams will captivate the interest of
any youngster, and the story should continue
the miracle of keeping the house a bit
quieter for an hour or two.
Dear Acquaintance, by Rosemary Rees
(Chapman and Hall). The author is very
much at home in writing of this part of the
world and the stage. Her latest heroine is
an Australian and an actress, but a good
deal of the action of the novel takes place in
the Basque country, near Biarritz, which
is well described. The characters move
eventually to Bow-street and the Old Bailey,
where an exciting trial leads up to the cus-
tomary happy ending.
The Dark Mite, by D. K. Broster (Heine-
maun), is the last book of a trilogy dealing
with Scottish Jacobitisra after Culloden. The
characters live, and their wildly beautiful
surroundings leap to the eye. The doings of
the mysterious David Maitland, the vil-
lainous young Laird MacPhair, Major
Grant and Bwen Cameron, the central figure
of the preceding books, are all the more ex-
citing for Miss Broster’s
quiet, Stevensonian man-
ner of describing them.
Cardinal Newman, by J.
Lewis May (Bles). Accept-
ing Ward’s “Life” as a
sufficient detailed bio-
graphy, the author sets
himself the task of bring-
ing into clear perspective
the personality and influ-
ence of Newman, dealing
with him as churchman,
writer and man. Written
with carefully restrained
sympathy, the book fits in
between straight biography
and narrative, with the
living character re-created
on the page.
The Orchids of Victoria, by E. E. Pescott
(The Horticultural Press: Robertson and
Mullens). There is a fascination about
orchids above all other plants, probably
because of their unorthodox habits of mak-
ing a living and their frequent resemblances
to birds and animals. The primitive magi-
cian always used the strange flower in his
incantations in preference to any other. Mr.
Pescott does not deal with the romantic side
of his subject; his book is a compendium of
the Victorian family, of which there are 137
members, ranging from the dainty rock-orchid
to the dissipated-looking Bearded Greenliood.
Turning Things Over, by E. V. Lucas
(Methuen). Lack of solidity might appear
a fanciful complaint to make against an
essayist, but present reviewer has sighed
it often over a Lucas collection —happily far
less often than usual over the latest lot
Here essays such as “Cricket N. 8.” are
almost strings of bare statements, without
any attempt at embellishment, and they’re
the better for it. Topics wander from ruins
to birds; there is an intriguing note on
Ellen Terry and a frontispiece drawing of
her as “Sweet Nell of Old Chelsea,” and
the little volume as a whole is far more
satisfying than some in Mr. Lucas’s seven-
league list.
The Official History of the Gallipoli Cam-
paign, Vol. I, with Maps and Appendices,
by Brig.-General C. F. Aspinall-Oglander,
maps and sketches by Major A. F. Becke
(li'einemann). The praise given to Aus-
tralians in this volume of the official British
history of the war was cabled copiously, at
the time of publication. Such extracts alone,
however, give rather a false impressiotfpof
the history. They are its purple patches and
its human side, and there is much less of
that side than in the official' Australian
volume. The work lias less of the AgjjtVativc
element than can be found in Mr?’ Bean’s
book; it is strictly a military history, com
piled with great care and elaborately illus-
trated with sketches and maps. It takes;
the story of the tragic operation from tlie
inception of the campaign, to May. when,
it is implied, victory might easily have been
won but for the misfortune in the dark when
the tows went astray and led to the landing
being made where no landing was intended.
At the actual landing the Australians out-
numbered the Turks by about ten to one.
A single sentence gives the entire British
view of the disaster: —
There can be little doubt that the extreme diffi-
culties played an even greater part than the opposi-
tion of the enemy in frustrating the Australian plan,
and that but for the unfortunate mistake in the
landing place the 4000 Australians who disembarked
before 5 a.m. and the 4000 who followed them be-
tween 6 and 8 a.m. could have pushed back the
Turkish outposts and established themselves on Gun
• Ridge and Chunuk Bair before the arrival of the
enemy reinforcements.
The appendices and four comprehensive
maps are in a separate volume.
+ .
“Selma”: Just-published “Edward Gibbon
Wakefield: The Man Himself,” is the work
of his great-grand-daughter, Irma O’Connor,
a young Auckland (M.L.) journalist, and
has helped to direct Maoriland’s attention
to its disregard of Wakefield’s immense ser-
vices in early, critical days. The great
coloniser lies in a neglected grave in the
Sydney-street cemetery in Wellington, where
he was buried in 1862, aged 66
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany .
E.H. 3 Forty-five thousand jvords too
many G.V.K.: “Fear” —no fear! Muriel W.:
Very near... .M.R.: Much obliged; but there is no
r00m.... Ex-Loco: Yes, we know all that; and it
would settle the argument if Australia hadn’t made
the best or even the second-best financially impossible.
. ...8.M.D.: If that was Brother Binghi’s only
grievance we wouldn’t worry much.... C.T.: Well
constructed; but sentiment over-done and the talk
is sometimes stilted. .. .N.T.S.: Hopeless... .11.A.F.:
And what do you do with the sal ammoniac ?....
R. : We tried hard to swallow it; but we
couldn’t get it down..., J.E.8.: Couldn’t quite draw
the weight. But it makes its little point, never-
theless .... Twom: Lordelpus!.... F.W.H.: Gertrude
Ford’s “Versecraft” will explain all. ...D.C.: May
be a “true bill,” but it’s a rambling ballad....
Prin: Also thin .M.E.8.: Too fragile for this
address... .R.H.L.: “The Arbitration Motor-car”
uses too much gas.... J.S.: No appeal in “The Voice.”
.J.G.: Couldn’t get excited over “The Branding.”
. ...Y.McA.: Done bef 0re.... Inver G.: Blank verse
needs to be packed as tight as a holiday drunk....
C.H.L.: Most of that was said about her years ago.
. ...A.S.: You might go to one of the schools and
read it M.K.: Should be a market for it else-
where C.C.: “Love’s Now Dancing.” Lucky Love!
. ...N.8.: “Poem offered as an article” won’t do
as either J.R.G.: Can’t take your “Advice”....
H.D.: “A clock chimed forth the charmed hour of
six.” And with that to go on you mentioned
everything but the closing of the pubs.... J.O’D.:
“Fair rose divine, I weep to see you fade away and
die so soon.” Pretty rough on those waterlilies that
Swinburne wrote about D.E.: Uninteresting
H.8.M.: Into the night goes “My Dusky 0ne”....
8.W.: Aristocrat with “the milk white palm” and
Tony shared the same fate D.E.R.: Can’t place
your detective... .Nabawah: Won’t nabawad
S. : Too long and too 1005 e.... F.G.: Might
suit a sporting paper.... A.R.McE.: Ending hashed....
H.E.S.: Roma yarn doesn’t strike 0i1.... J.T.M.: Motive
good; matter slight P.T.: No prize Asker:
Thanks for introduction to that kookaburra, “ethereal
tenor of the wold” J.McK.: Verse fails to carry
the ideas A.L.R.: Afraid you’ll have to sing it
“over the hills, the fields, the roads”.... C.A.: Not
enough realism in “The Circus” M.A.F.: Observa-
tion only; you don’t translate it into feeling
1.H.H.: Too diffuse Atoye: “A Day and a Night
in the Country” passed in two minutes... .D.F.: The
atmosphere seems reliable:—
’Tis the Coorong a-ealling, a-calling so free
With its tracks winding o’er open spaces
Where the shores of the lake liken those of the sea
Where the emu’s and ’roo’s feet leave traces.
C.L.: Destroyed, as per alternative request....
W.S.C.: Don’t fancy idea H. 5.8.: No space for
“host of memories, sadly shoon”... .E.C.11.: “Blither-
ing Blazes.” And repeat T.0.W.: You don’t make
“The Funeral” half cheerful enough... .G.D.S.:
Agree with Hilda’s friends—crazy she was
Carolus: Scotch yarn scotched E.R.J.: “The
Trinity” needs an extra log or so Spur: It’s a
fairly old story D.M.: “The Bushgirl’s Song” is
over-long, and also isn’t very strong. Apart from
that, there’s nothing wrong. Ding, dong, dong...,
D.McE.: Bring in your champion: —
Though all the world against him rose,
He’ll meet them with a snigger;
All vile abuse and lies dispose—•
Brave Billy Hughes, “the Digger!”
J.D.: An idea, but you let it down... .K.A.W.:
Don’t like “the unperceived tide that noiseless rose,”
or any of the other phenomena... .0.E.H.: Adven-
ture unalluring... .J.C.: As you put it, “original
matter 0n1y”... .B.B.: Did you ever read para-
graphs like yours in The Bulletin? Taiho: Lots
of truth in it, but wobbly verse... .Wig: You’ll do
better than that J.C.S.: All miss the ’bus
Bunty: Have backed horses like your hat
verse—full of promise, but dashed short on
performance... .H.K.: Handled it carefully, but
it fell to pieces... .J. 0.8.: Hullo, a “Spring
Song! ” Getting in early, aren’t you 1....
Bloat: Population of Sydney (Metropolitan area,
as defined in Local Government Act), 1,270,800;
of rest of N.S.W., 2,176,000 Infra: It is the
same there. Aliens have no legal right of admission
to any British country D.F.: They’re novelettes,
not short stories... .Kesem: Returning the “honey-
colored infant” who “emerged”... .R.S.T.: “Illegible”
offspring cradled in the basket... .A.C.S.: It’s a
poor market for “ramblings”; the humor is often
banal P. 8.: Everything published is paid for;
your stuff is very immature. Study the structure of
the best short stories; and please don’t type in
red.. . .P.K.P.: Yarn seems familiar... .R.G.McD.:
Don’t care for modern rendering of “The Taming
of the Shrew”.... Gwyd: Labor won 17 House of
Reps, seats in 1901, 23 in ’O3, 26 in ’O6, 42 in ’lO,
37 in ’l3, 41 in ’l4, 22 in ’l7, 26 in ’l9, 29 in
’22, 23 in ’25, 31 in ’2B and 46 in ’29. There are
75 members without the man from the Northern
Territory, who does not vote. The party had a
majority in the Senate during the six years 1910-16,
but at no other time. Highest number of Labor
Senators, 31 in ’l4 (the double-dissolution year) ;
lowest, 1 in ’l9 G.H.K.C.: Scullin contested
Corangamite (Vic.) three times. He was elected in
1910, beaten (by J. C. Manifold) in 1913, and
beaten again at the by-election following Mani-
fold’s death in 1918 by W. G. Gibson, subsequently
Bruce’s P.M.G.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Anon: She may be holding a harp, but it looks
more like a shark’s fin J.S.W.: Repartee insipid;
drawing not so bad. .. .R.A.N.: Sketch also ran....
D.S.: Faint blue-ink marks on writing-pad paper.
. ...J.N.: Distinctly promising, if original; though
lessons are needed J.L.: If you must jest about
that subject, think out stronger gags P.U.:
Mirthless E.M.: So that’s your idea of a horse?
. ...A.8.: Sympathetic D.C.: Away with your
prehistoric damsels!... .C.J.C.: A glimmer of wit
in the gags, but drawings are feeble 8.5.:
Solomon is nod vanted. .. .F.L.H.: You began to
go wrong after the first few strokes.


9
w
m
■MBiIBiSWi
v;
mm i
r
■
m
■f
H
H
asFT..
: .... '■■-■■ ' ■
khh
■
1
■
I
■ ■ ■■ -
■
m
M
a—
**.:.
■
-
■■■■■
§Sl®
ft
WmSßm.
T..\
m
y
41
—■
■
i
.■
i ;< Irjß
■■ .=. <
s
d
f
H
ft
h*ftdL
w
HH
m. • * \
rarani
wm
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD,


The Bulletin
A'ol. 50.—N0. 2594.
October SO, 1929.
“WHAT DID YOU DO IN THE GREAT DROUGHT, DADDY?”
Over 1400 farmers in the more fortunate parte of the State [Victoria] have offered free agistment for stock from the drought-stricken part of the Mallee Meanwhile
a squalid fight has raged in Parliament over drought-relief, and party and private tacticians have been unusually busy."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.’'
HEAD OFFICE:
George Street, Sydney; Box 252188.
Victoria: lll r 2o Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 2Jj9 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Regent 5796.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 Its.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: lOoz., Id. United Kingdoml t oz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional 1/oz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: ioz. or part thereof,
Id. Elseiuhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
VERSE AND SOUND, by David McKee Wright 2
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT—
A critical survey by Cecil Mann .. 2, 5
DAVID WRIGHT, IN MEMORY—
By Mary Gilmore .. .. .. 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ... 5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
THE NEW MINISTRY 8
TOO MUCH LOAFING 8
A Sermon for South Australia • • .. 8
WHAT SHOULD OUR RAILWAY GAUGE BE? 8
THE BASIC WAGE TANGLE 9
“Fetch in that Coal!”
A cartoon by Scorfield .. . • . . 9
POLITICAL POINTS (with cartoon by Percival) 10
POVERTY POINT 11
“BACK TO THE OLD JOBS,” by Aria . . . . 11
PERSONAL (with three caricatures) . . .. 13
SOCIETY (with drawings) . . . . . . 14, 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..16
“SHE STOOPS TO CONQUER” . . . . 16
MELBOURNE ROYAL FIRE 16
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS' . . .. . . 18, 20
SOUTH BRITISH INSURANCE 18
MARCUS CLARK 18
SOUTHERN CROSS INSURANCE .. . . 18
ALLIED MOTORS 18
GREAT PROSPECTING SCHEME FOR
NORTH QUEENSLAND 20
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 23, 25
Free Service Department 26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 31
WIDTH OF FURROWS 28
PHOSPHATE DEFICIENCY 28
HOW AND WHEN TO DIP CATTLE . . . . 31
CULTIVATION OF ORCHARDS . . . • 31
TOMATO WILT 31
SMOKE-OH 32
PEN AND PICTURE 35
NEWEST TALKIES 35
VIC. ARTISTS’ SHOW 35
BUSINESS, ROBBERY 36
SPORTING (illustrated) 39, 41, 42
Moonee Valley Cup • • • • • .. 39
MOOREFIELD RACES 39
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 45
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 48
THE CUP CARNIVAL 48
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 50
“PARADISE PLUMES” 47
Special David McKee Wright Section.
THE CROWN OF THE REVOLUTION . . 51, 52
PORTRAIT 51
THE WOOING ; THE DAY OF LIBERTY . . 52
THE WAVE OF CLEENA ; WINGS . . .. 55
A STEP MORE ; THE BULL AND THE PEA-
RIFLE ; HOW MURPHY GOT TO
HEAVEN 57, 58
Next Week.
THE CHEERFUL SERIAL, “MERRY
CHRISTMAS!” STARTS.
[For all matter in this issue requiring a signature
under the Commonwealth Electoral law, where it
is not otherwise specified S. H. Prior, J. E. Webb
and James Edmond, all of 214 George-street, Syd-
ney, accept the responsibility.]
ffie'l&ulleZz/Tt
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1929.
THE NEW MINISTRY.
The Bruce-Pages began with 11 Ministers
but had 13 in the last chapter, though until
Parliament otherwise provides there can be
no more than nine Ministers of State. The
Scullin-Theodores start with 13, divided
into five Victorians, four N. S. Welshmen,
a Queenslander, a South Australian, a West-
ralian and a Tasmanian. According to
Labor custom, the team was picked by
Caucus, and Trades Hall, Labor Council
and A.L.P. bosses profess to be delighted
with it. But in some cases the delight is
feigned. The large infusion of Victorians
is objected to by Ma State patriots as being
out of all proportion to the Cabbage Garden’s
contribution to the party—l 3 Representa-
tives and one Senator as against the Ma
State’s 20 Representatives and three Sena-
tors. This feeling, innocuous at present,
may become dangerous if things go badly
and Mr. Theodore decides that he deserves
a handsomer reward. From causes as slight
the Dooley-McGirr and Lang-Loughlin
commotions sprang. Then it is being gloom-
ily said in Queensland that the relegation
of Mr. Forde to a minor post will not help
the party bosses to recover the ground they
have lost in that State. In every previous
Labor Ministry Queensland , has been
strongly represented.
Sydney Trades and Labor Council and
A.L.P. executive men also protest that
the number of A.W.U. Ministers is excessive.
Mr. SculijlN himself was an A.W.U. organ-
iser; Mr. Blakeley was, and Senator
Barnes is, the union’s general president;
Mr. Theodore, though no longer its white-
haired boy, was president of the Queensland
branch; Senator Daly is the S.A. branch’s
lawyer; and other Ministers are at least
. friendly. The Sydney A.L.P. executive
did its best to keep A.W.U. men out (of
course the Prime Minister and his Trea-
surer could not be kept out); while mem-
bers were hurrying to Canberra its presi-
dent, Mr. Graves, delivered a wholehearted
attack on A.W.U. officialdom in general and
the N.S.W. and Queensland executives in
particular, blaming “the objectionable
oligarchy in Queensland” for the disappoint-
ing results in that State. Rage must have
possessed this gentleman’s soul when the
Ministers were named, especially as only
one rising hope of his executive and the
Trades and Labor Council caught Caucus’s
eye—the engaging Mr. Beasley.
To have Mr. Beasley thrust on him would
be cruel luck for any Prime Minister. In
a spirit of self-sacrifice Mr. Scullin has
taken the young gentleman into his own
departments of Industry and External
Affairs, and if he can there repress and
silence him while passing on to him some
sense of responsibility, no great harm may
be done. But, even so, on the young man’s
record, running from the Geneva Confer-
ence to the timber-workers’ strike, the
appointment is a blunder. And the lack of a
Minister with war experience is a weak-
ness. Whatever the MacDonalds and
Hoovers may decide on the banks of trout
streams or elsewhere, Australia will need
to be defended, and the people will demand
adequate strength, and efficiency in all arms.
Yet the Defence portfolio has been handed
over to the rawest of amateurs. There is
no moiY amiable person in the party or the
Parliament, but even his admirers suggest
in explaining his elevation that he was
picked for his singing—“ Mr. Green is the
leader of the Labor choir.” Confidence m
the Labor Defence policy and administra-
tion will be a plant of slow growth.
Other appointments, notably that of Mr.
Fenton, a sound Protectionist, to the Cus-
toms Department, have made a good impres-
sion. Indeed the Government has been wel-
comed to office with an enthusiasm denied
to previous Administrations; and it will
have every chance to prove itself worthy of
this enthusiasm. Failure will mean that
Labor-unionism, in its present form at least,
is incapable of governing a nation and a
continent.
TOO MUCH LOAFING.
It is pretty generally agreed by those who
do any thinking at all that Australia is pro-
ducing far too little for a country with
£120,000,000 of debt due for redemption
inside 14 months, and a foreign interest bill
amounting .to £30,000,000 a year. It is
also agreed pretty generally by those who
let their thoughts carry them so far that,
unless we can reduce our incitements to
loaf and send money abroad, a catastrophe
is only a matter of time. The thing to con-
sider, therefore, is how best to get rid of
some of those incitements.
For three weeks past, in two cities, pro-
duction has been held up to quite a laige
extent for the spring racing carnival. These
recurrent celebrations at least bring money
to two States. But who or what benefits
by the 70 pony meetings which occur in
Sydney every year, two-thirds of them
on week days, or by the 41 trotting fix-
tures, all of which are on week-days?
Ponies and trotters are as useless, nationally,
as roulette-boards, and their cost to pro-
duction is not to be measured by the large
crowds who watch them perform. Ten
times as many away-from-the-course punters
are prevented from doing a fair day’s work
on race days by their manoeuvres to dis-
cover “what won the last” at the earliest
moment.
Canada produces as many motor-cars as
France. Australia, though it threatens
before long to achieve the U.S.A. motor-
owning standard of 10 cars to every 56 per-
sons, is in the position of Siam or Siberia
as regards car production. The whole of
the cars by which 800 or 900 Australians are
killed and 14,000 or 15,000 injured every
year come from abroad—over 90 per cent,
from America. The growing working-class
habit of owning a (mostly t.p.) car is as
strong an incentive to waste time and over-
spend earnings as the racing habit. And
this applies in an even greater degre to the
picture-show habit, which, moieover, is inci-
dentally turning this country into a depen-
dency of Unc. Samuel. Little more than
10 per cent, of the films shown here are
British, and few good British films are
imported. “The Royal Navy Ashore and
Afloat,” for example, an eight-reeler which
is said to be equal to any feature film that
has been made, will not be seen by Aus-
tralians, because it threatens the extraoidi-
narily fine propaganda work which Uncle
Sam's films are doing here for Old Glory.
The pictures stand supreme as time- and
money-wasters. They function every day
barring Sundays, and their prices are so
crraduated—from Is. 6d. in the morning to
6s. 6d. at night on week days, and irom
2s! s£d. to 7s. 7d. at night on Saturdays—
that practically every financial cl ass is
tapped. The U.S.A. Department of Com-
merce estimated this year that 2| million
Australians, or a third of the population,
are habitual picture-goers, and that 50 per-
cent. of their contributions to the trade
finds its way to the U.S.A.!
Australia cannot afford to race, motor
or attend picture-shows on the present
scale. A N. S. Wales Government had a
report from a Select Committee as far back
as 1924 which set forth the need for a drastic
reduction of racing days, and, in face of
the move against proprietary racing of the
Victorian and Queensland Governments, the
Bavin Administration can hardly afford to
delay reform much longer. As regards the
other two evils —and carried to their present
excess they represent very serious economic
evils —a good deal could be done by giving
Uncle Sam a dose of his own restrictive
medicine.
A SERMON FOR SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The Auditor-General reports that S. Aus-
tralia, when its accounts are put on a basis
which isn’t whitewashed, has had 15 short-
ages in as many years; as to 10 of them
there is no doubt, and as to five, though
surpluses were claimed, the auditor classes
them as bogus. There were six sinking-
fund contributions which were “suspended”
as a matter of convenience; interest on
irrigation works which couldn’t be collected
was added to capital (that is, to the alleged
value of the loan works) to the extent
of £733,288; non-collectable interest and
expenses, amounting to £2,407,087, on soldier
settlements, were capitalised and added to
the alleged value of the settlements; finally,
depreciation estimated at £2,114,000 was
skimmed over, on the assumption that loan
assets are immortal, or at least that they
don’t depreciate when it isn’t convenient
for the Treasurer that they should. As the
result of all this the 15 deficits are shown
as follows:—.
1914- £798,015 1 1922-23.. £668,303
1915- 508,901 1923-24.. 607,678
1916- 546,880 1924-25.. 524,196
1917- 220,182 1925-20.. 554,66;j
1918- 339,619 1926-27.. 1,581,965
1919- 274,592 1927-28.. 734,662
1920- 834,010 1928-29.. 1,198,909
1921- 434,371
It is a considerable pace for a State with
less than 600,000 inhabitants.
The loan railways, of course, were the
seat of trouble. They are so over most
of this country, but in S. Australia the
position is worst. There the lines are about
half sft. 3in., and the other half 3ft. 6in.,
and in itself this mix-up is costly. Even
on the old, unreformed way of calculating
which shirked the depreciation there were
deficits; and now there are worse ones.
For the year 1928-29 the system lost
£1,375,123, which, in proportion to popula-
tion, was a record. Gross railway takings
have fallen off in various States, but S.
Australia has been specially unlucky in this
respect:—
1925- . £4,237,718 ] 1927-28. . £3,941,276
1926- 4,062,133 ] 1928-29.. 3,644,252
One result was that the system, though
it paid expenses, contributed only £213,974
towards the £1,589,097 due as interest on its
portion of the public debt.
A good deal of explanation may be found
in the fact that every mile of line was
called upon to earn £271 of interest in
1914-15, which was possible on paper; in
1920-21 the interest charge was £363 per
mile, which was difficult; and in 1928-29
it had climbed up to £623 per mile, which
is a tragedy. This appalling increase came
about through insane borrowing for all
sorts of works in spite of decaying credit,
and because of the absolute necessity for
borrowing new money as old loans fell due,
with no appreciable sinking fund to help
meet the case and mitigate the lender’s
appetite. The lender knew that South Aus.
must have money or burst, and he charged
accordingly.
The new financial agreement which was
one of the achievements of the late Federal
Government has a bearing on the case. The
Commonwealth is to raise and renew loans
for itself and the States, and be responsible
for interest payments to the general creditor,
who will recognise no one else. It is to
subscribe £7,584,912 per annum out of its
own money-box in place of the old subsidy,
and it is to collect the balance from the
States. A State may not be able to pay out
of revenue, and South Australia may pos-
sibly be such a State. Then the obvious
course will be for the son to give his
parent debentures for the difference, and
keep on giving them. The orthodox proceed-
ing for many years, especially recent years,
has been to borrow when payment out of
revenue was difficult, and the agreement
won’t help the animal to change his spots.
The parent being now the individual who
floats loans, it will be quite in order to
give him the lOU, and bid him float it at
his convenience, and promise him another
lOU to cover the loss on flotation, if any.
Comparing 1923-24 with 1927-28 the value
of South Australian products of all sorts
grew by £872,000, though as population grew
faster than production the value of output
per bread-winner diminished from £169
Bs. 2d. per annum to £157 18s. sd. The
value of manufactures increased by
£2,211,000, while that of all the other tricks
in' the box (agricultural, pastoral, mining
and odds and ends) dropped by £1,339.000.
The failure came about in all the expensive
land-settlement devices which have added
so much to the debt and the deficit, and
the success lay in the self-supporting
secondary industries.
The Scuixin Cabinet now has a chance
(the one its predecessors so badly missed)
to squash a mountain of imports and give
secondary industry the chance it deserves.
Blank prohibition of the influx of a multi-
tude of things is the best way. Protection
is a slow-moving creature in this easy-
going land.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Loans at 16 Per Cent. Interest.
“To relieve unemployment the State Govern-
ment decided yesterday to proceed with the con-
struction of the Hillston-Roto railway.’’
It will be done out of loan money, of
course, and loan money is very costly just
now. Other little loan railways are in
progress or decided on in N. S. Wales,
mostly unpromising, and mainly for the
sake of relieving unemployment; the only
difference between them and this one is that
here the fact that the work is a relief
job is mentioned more specifically than
usual.
The question is whether it is common-
sense or common honesty to charge the
relief of unemployment to posterity.
N. S. Wales, in common with some of its
neighbors, has many relief railways already.
The little eight-mile concern from West-
mead to Rogan’s Hill was so purely charit-
able that after a few years’ trial it is being
dismantled. It cost £156,142, and in 192 1
it lost £25,150 in interest and unearned
working expenses. That was before any
allowance for sinking fund was added on to
the invoice. So it may be said that the
State got the use of £156,142 at 16 per
cent, interest. The relief was limited and
short, and the 16 per cent, is very long.
The seven-mile enterprise from Richmond
to Kurrajong cost £148,192, and the years
loss was £14,611. That looks like purchasing
the use of a small sum of money to relieve
a few unemployed for a very little while
at about 10 per cent, payable by posterity
in perpetuity. According to the published
figures the Bogan Gate-Tottenham public
work represented a loan at 35 per cent,
in 1927, but that was an extraordinary per-
formance, probably due to staggering cir-
cumstances.
Any Government which desn’es to be kind
to the poor, and earn an outsized harp and
a front place among the angels by its good
deeds, should reconsider its policy lest it
brings up at the wrong address. Heaping
impossible loads on posterity, and thus max-
ing it very poor, isn’t charity. To say
what it is might be impolite.
♦
Parliamentary Privilege.
Recent scenes in the N.S.W. Legislative
Assembly lead every decent citizen to the
conclusion that the time has arrived for the
curtailment of so-called Parliamentaij
privilege. ,
In days of old, when the monarchy and
the people were at grips for supremacy,
there were sound reasons for exempting
the people’s representatives from the penal-
ties which would attach outside the Assem-
bly to utterances such as those within its
walls. The idea, of course, was that exemp-
tion should extend to speeches of a political
complexion. But the principle has been
stretched until any foul-tongued and dirty-
minded ruffian who has the right to sit in
Parliament may indulge in a riot of abuse
and obscenity which, if it defiled the public
street, would lead to his instant arrest and
conviction. f
It is quite possible to draw the line ot
Parliamentary privilege betwen the member
making serious and, perhaps, legally libellous
allegations and the pot-valiant hoodlum
finding vent for his spleen in vile terms and
accusations. Parliamentary privilege is due
for a clear statutory definition. That done,
it will be possible for decent-minded men
and women to listen to and to read Pai-
liamentary debates without disgust.
♦
Which Should Be Our Gauge?
“Ten-foot-six”: The Bulletin is right
in advocating 3ft. 6in. for the uniform gauge.
Not gauge but structural standards detei-
mine railway status and travelling comfort.
To narrow the existing 4ft. Biin. and 511. 3m.
tracks and rolling-stock axles and retain
every other broad-gauge feature would be
the cheapest of any method of unification
and combine the working economy am
efficiency of the narrow-gauge with broad-
gauge convenience.
The alteration of clearances on the exist-
ing 3ft. 6in. lines to pass the bigger rolling
stock would not involve much more than
the setting back of platforms, as all tun ,'
modern structures on most narrow-gauge
lines comply with broad-gauge clearance
standards. Running the broad-gauge
coaches on a 3ft. 6in. track would not be
risky. It would not even be novel: it was
done in Tasmania 40 years ago when the
sft. 3in. gauge was scrapped in favor ot the
3ft 6in The carriages were then converted
simply by fitting shorter axles, and ever
since Tasmania has built her 3ft. 6m. rolling
stock to broad-gauge width and height,
except that the roof clerestory is omitted
on account of low clearances in an o c
tunnel on the main line.
Speeds are generally lower on the oft. b ■
because of light rails and inferior ballast-
ing ; but in spite of this and the st
greater handicap of innumerable shaip
curves and several sections where the iegu-
lation limit is 2)0 miles an hour, there are
expresses on thq( main line between Hob


“FETCH IN THAT COAL!”
“The dispute between the Northern coalmine owners and miners has now lasted eight months.”
MRS. AUSTRALIA: “Have you boys brought in the fuel for to-morrow yet?”
THE KIDS (simultaneously): “No, Mum; we can’t agree about our shares of the job.”
MOTHER: “You and your can’t agree! Look you here—if that fuel isn’t inside in 10 minutes I’ll spank the both of you.”
and Launceston as fast as any l in Victoria
except the inter-State expresses and the
Geelong flier.
Nor does the narrow gauge restrict loco-
motive dimensions. The Island State has
used 100-ton engines for over 20 years,
and there are locos, now on order for a
private co. which will scale 130 tons each,
equalling the standard-gauge heavy main-
line types, and they will be used on a
route much more severely curved than the
Blue Mountains section in N. S. Wales and
on rails that would be considered too light
for a second-class line of standard gauge.
❖
The N.S.W. Basic-wage Tangle.
The most prosperous countries pay the
highest wages. But those countries are not
. prosperous because such wages are paid.
They are prosperous because such wages are
earned. Mere payment of high wages, so
far from meaning prosperity, may mean
calamity; indeed, if more wages are paid
than are earned calamity sooner or later
is inevitable. Not all the Parliaments in
the world, not even all the Piddingtons,
can permanently “fix” wages. Earnings and
nothing but earnings can determine what
may be paid. And that is why our whole
system of the basic wage is utterly wrong
and why its maintenance is impossible.
Unfortunately this country is afflicted
with politicians who for the most part are
merely vote-hunters. Bidding against one
another they have created a wage system
which amounts to a catastrophe—a wage-
system which takes no heed of what the
laborer earns, but only of what somebody
or other says the laborer and his family
need. It would be just as preposterous to
say that because the wheat-farmer’s family
needs certain things he must have a 20-
bushel crop or because the fowl-farmer’s
family needs certain things his hens must
lay 400 eggs a year. No amount of legis-
lation can produce one result more than
another.
On top of this absurdity in N. S. Wales
the system of family endowment was im-
posed ; and again the principle was utterly
wrong and impossible. Industry was made
to bear the cost of subsidising a man and his
wife for having children. Presumably it
was thought that industry wouldn’t notice
it—that it could first pay for the main-
tenance of children (many of them non-
existent) through the basic wage and then
a second time through this child-endowment
tax direct. For this piece of stupid legis-
lation Bavin was quite as much responsible
as Lang.
At last, naturally, one of the innumerable
tribunals which have been set up has stuck
a Pin into the bubble, and has tentatively
fixed ’ the basic wage at £3 12s. 6d. a week
instead of the old £4 ss. The difference,
it is explained, is due to the child endow-
ment now in force. A fortnight is allowed
m which Parliament may tear the thing to
pieces.
Of course it will be torn to pieces. And
indeed it should be. We cannot get out
of the tangle in which we have involved our-
selves as easily as these two Judges suggest.
So large a sudden reduction of the income
of tens of thousands of households would
cause great suffering. What should be done
is to tear up the whole of the - present basic-
wage legislation. That would not neces-
sarily involve any reduction of wage; there
is no basic wage in the U.S.A., and indus-
'trious tradesmen there can and do easily
earn 50 per cent, more than they do in
Australia. But that change would take
time, and something must be done quickly.
The most obvious thing is to scrap child
endowment without touching for the present
the basic wage. If Parliament still thinks
that married people should get a bonus for
having children, then at least let us remove
the payment from the back of industry. At
present the man who employs labor carries
the whole burden; good Mr. Piddington,
whose salary is far more than the average
small manufacturer’s salary and profits com-
bined, escapes absolutely.
♦
The Troubles of McPherson.
Victoria’s McPherson Ministry was
defeated the other day much in the same
way as that of Bruce, through the defection
of one or two “independent” wobblers.
And the reasons why the wobblers defected
were financial—the kind which are increas-
ingly liable to hit a Ministry when times
are bad and when the easiest sort of patri-
otism is to clamor for unlimited loans to
make them good and beautiful.
The tales from the dry Mallee corner of
Victoria having become heartrending, a
demand was made that the Premier should
do strenuous deeds in order to keep the
people on the land. The first proposal was
that road and railway building should be
started on a large scale. But there is a
lack of people to make the railways pay for
axle-grease. Besides, the county of Kar-
karooc is traversed by four parallel rail-
ways already, and Tatchera by three, and
Millewa by two, including a small one in a
corner, and Weeah by one. A proposal that
a lot of the liabilities of the more unfor-
tunate settlers should be put into the
public debt fell fiat, one obvious difficulty
being that unless the money can be bor-
rowed it isn’t easy to get a liability into the
public debt. The Premier stated that dur-
ing 10 months of office his Government had
found about £500,000 for relief, and affairs
weren’t much advanced.
The idea which met with most accept-
ance was that the Premier must insist that
the Federal Prime Minister call the Loan
Council together and get it to authorise
more loans. But the last effort at raising
money in London produced only £5,000.000
for one year at 6J per cent., and there is
pretty intimation that neither London
nor New York is lending much just now.
To authorise loans is easy, but it doesn’t
make the other fellow lend. And if he does
lend, Victoria, like some other States, has
been struggling over the financial dry spell
by negotiating temporary bank overdrafts
in London (over £3,000,000 is mentioned),
so a heap of the next permanent loan (per-
haps more than the State’s share will
amount to) is already spent.
Anyhow, the McPherson Ministry met
with defeat on a motion that it hadn’t done
enough for the Mallee settlers, and one of
the Independents said that his specific objec-
tion was its failure to drag the Loan Council
together and insist on somebody lending
more money.
The situation isn’t anything very special,
after all, and similar situations are develop-
ing all over Australia now that the loan
boom has cracked badly. The McPher-
son majority has always been skimpy, and
skimpy majorities are bad in hard times.
*
Elective Ministries.
Dear Bulletin, —Mr. J. M. Fowler begins
his reply (B. 23/10/’29) to an article of
mine on the above topic by saying that my
remarks about “the cow-like calm of Swiss
politics are very wide of the mark,” because
the people discuss public questions “keenly
and intelligently.” I don’t think much of
his theory. Bryce, who is something of an
authority, alleges:—
“Elections to the Federal Houses raise
little popular excitement, and a member who
seeks re-election is usually returned.... The
Federal Councillors are usually re-elected
so long as they desire to serve. Between
1848 and 1919 there was only one exception
to this rule.... Nothing resembling the
Spoils System of the United States exists,
a fact, however, also attributable to the
meagreness of the salaries and to lack
of the social importance which office confers
in France and Germany. Places are not
worth struggling f0r.... There have been
years when more than half the seats in the
National Council were not contested....
What able man would enter a Legislature for
the sake of 20s. a day during 16 weeks of
the year?”
The Swiss may talk about public affairs a
good deal, but the Swiss system of elective
.Ministries can’t be transplanted here with
the success it achieves locally unless the
cow-like atmosphere is transplanted with it.
And the atmosphere in which only one man
who wanted another term of office had been
rejected in the 71 years to 1919, because
it isn’t good form to throw out Bruce, how-
ever badly Scullin requires his billet,
wouldn’t transplant readily.'
Mr. J. M. Fowler also declares that the
United States system - of having Ministers
wholly outside Parliament and not
appointed by it is “regarded with approval”
by me, as it “keeps plotters and schemers
out of office—this in a country where spoils
to the victors is a recognised political prac-
tice.” I expressed no approval, and I didn’t
even hint at the system keeping plotters
and schemers out of office. What I said was
that under the U.S. method “Billy
Hughes and Scullin and Theodore might
plot and rave and concoct dark schemes
for years and get no closer to office.” That
is absolutely true, for the schemers in office
are wholly outside Parliament, and those
inside Parliament plot for something apart
from office, it being out of their reach,
though boodle isn’t.
The Swiss system has much to recommend
it, but amid different surroundings it is
possible to imagine highly-paid members
entering into bargains with highly-paid
Ministers, the terms including reappoint-
ment if they are good, and the unanimous
“chuck-out” at the end of three years (not
one solitary “chuck” in 71 years) if they
aren’t.
The similarity between Switzerland and
the United States is that in each case the
Ministry is outside the Legislature, isn’t
responsible to it, and can’t be peremptorily
removed by it. Differences are that the
Parliament of the small republic (Switzer-
land is less than one-fifth the size of Vic-
toria) is poor, content with a very humble
wage, and lias a great name for honesty and
the other cottage virtues; while that of
the big one (the Yankee empire is bigger
than Europe) is rich, proud, bumptious and
much given to oil scandals. . The Yank
wouldn’t' give up bootlegging and murder
even if his Ministers were chosen by poli-
ticians instead of by the President. ■ In the
same way Maoriland and N. S. Wales
have very similar Governments, but the
Parliament at Wellington is mild and re-
spectable, while about 25 per cent, of the
one at Sydney should be disqualified for
life because of disorder, foul language and
false accusations against its fellow-member.
Elective Cabinets might turn the political
basher into a gentleman, but I have doubts.
Why not try single-tax?—Yours, etc.,
Solomon Malaprop.
*
The Threatening Tide of Color.
“Si And”: Whites in Java, who have
scarcely recovered from the shock of the
brutal murder of the Australian Mrs. Macfie,
are suffering from a fresh attack of nerves
following on the ferocious slaughter of two
Europeans, a man and a woman, by planta-
tion coolies. Attacks on white overseers
have been frequent of late in the Dutch
East Indies, and the attacks are generally
ascribed to the new policy of the Govern-
ment, which greatly reduces the gulf
hitherto fixed between the colored natives
and the whites. The immediate result has
been an obvious and quickly-growing truc-
ulence among the overwhelming millions
of Javanese. Seizing the opportunity, the
Communist party, driven underground after
the attempt at revolution a couple of years
ago, is busier than ever. If Australia is
ever foolish enough to introduce inden-
tured colored labor from these parts, the
Comunist “cell” will go with them. But,
apart from that, the situation is full of
sinister possibilities.


1
ii
: ;: ** * . f * V m&t*
I V, »/ *
4k«.lfc. *
‘<M
tk,
M :-
%a
;0‘ ; ,v, J v 2
£\>]
>1
4J?
% ;}' ;
\.*h%J M:• •■vil/.,.• n;< a ? ■ >,■.. }
v^i f %'¥.V 0-1 5
•J MGTOR SPIRIT
*•>%// v * \
* *>•%♦,.* - V > ■
X ,-I a
Cr,J
rfS ««:
# j
. '/
s
> ,,
* f :R $*>
'■ y
* : 4
&
M -' *> V
m.
I ■
? *
,1*. n
V £S
1\
. :%■ m.
• •-•-
Mr
* ■ »j/
•*>■ t»t, a
fi|$is€>2!
E 39
POLITICAL
POINTS
There is already a vacant seat in the new
House of Reps. The strain of campaigning
proved too much for W. J. McWilliams, who
was older than was generally thought—he
was a Tas. Assemblyman as far back as
1893 —and he died on the day he was to
have moved the vote of thanks to the Frank-
lin returning-officer. Only once before has
the winner of a House of Reps, election died
before being sworn in, and he also was a
Tasmanian—C. R. Howroyd, who removed
King O’Malley from Commonwealth politics
at Darwin in 1917.
Inexcusable was the blunder which gave
Perkins, the Nationalist Whip, the tem-
porary benefit of 49 Labor votes polled in
Eden-Monaro. A recount, made on the
returning-officer’s own responsibility, brought
it to light; then Perkins, who thought he
had won by a head, was placed second. Per-
kins is appealing on the ground that scores
of sturdy fellows from the Federal Capital
Territory voted in Queanbeyan, where the
Labor man, Cusack, polled 3 to 1.
Frederick Doidge, an Australian journal-
ist, has got what ought to be a life job
under Beaverbrook, the big newspaper
uproar—he is to devote his whole time to
Beaverbrook’s fad of Freetrade within the
Empire. It is at least as hopeful as the idea
of a uniform climate or a uniform language
within the empire, but these would certainly
be more useful. All this Freetrade is ex-
pected to cause a greatly increased sale
of Bull goods, and if J.B. wasn’t so dashed
particular about getting increased money
for these goods the situation wouldn’t be so
bad. But he wants us to adopt his fad and
pay him for the use of it.
The Country Prog, group in Vic. Assem-
bly is a nuisance. It is too small to govern
on its own account, and it won’t let other
parties govern. Twelve months ago it helped
the Nationalists to turn the Labor Govern-
ment out, and now it has joined with Labor
to send the Nationalists to the country. It
doesn’t deserve to survive, but it probably
will, for it has a following in the Mallee,
where settlers are almost in the mood to
believe that the Government is to blame for
their ruined crops. Bad times are boom
times for political nai*ks.
The McPhersons were defeated on a
motion for the adjournment of the House to
discuss the woes of the north-west settlers,
who were but pawns in the political game.
McPherson took the verdict as a studied
rebuff, and applied for a dissolution. This
was promised subject to supply being granted
by Parliament for the election period.
A swing to the Right was inevitable after
the events of October 12; and it has begun
straightway. The poor showing of the Labor
man in West Gippsland has been followed
by the loss of the Maryborough (Q.)
Assembly seat, which had been Labor-
Socialist for 15 years. Perhaps country
electors have taken fright at the persistent
reports that the Scullidores intend monkey-
ing with the Commonwealth Bank. Certainly
nothing would be more likely to bring on
a catastrophe.
Last year’s S. Aus. deficit was the 10th
official shortage in 15 years, and the amount
was officially £930,859. This year the official
shortage is reckoned to he £1,195,406, but
it will be only £695,406 if the Federal sub-
sidy comes in. South Australia is certainly
due for a subsidy, having been much neg-
lected in that way, but last year Bruce said
he hadn’t the money, and Scullin may be m
the same box. The term “official shortage”
is used because the Auditor-General says that
the. real deficit is always more than the
official 0ne—£268,050 more last year. But-
ler anticipates another fall in revenue, and
he is probably right.
Vic. Leg. Assembly readily extended its
thanks to Justice Cusse.n for consolidating
the Statutes, but when the Government said
it was proposed to vote him £2500 there was
a storm. Dunstan, the Country Prog,
leader, and Laborite Pollard spoke against
the suggested grant, which the Labor
lawyers, Slater and Blackburn, supported.
Dunstan and Pollard are not too proud
THE STEP-CHILDREN.
“Mr. Scullin has promised to repeal compulsory training, for which his Labor predecessors were
originally responsible.”
SCULLIN'S WORSE POLITICAL HALF: “Go on, Jim, it’s got to be done. Think of all the
money they’re costing to feed and clothe."
to accept £240 p.a. each for service on
the Parliamentary Standing Committee on
Railways, in addition to their salaries
as Assembly members. If financial strin-
gency is a valid argument for refusing to
compensate Cussen for his immensely valu-
able work, why should they get extra pay?
Alderman Mike will be back in Sydney
next year. There is to be an election in
June under the same old franchise, which
gives the vote to dosshouse loafers while
denying it to thousands of able and respon-
sible city men who sleep outside the boun-
daries. It is not even proposed to have pre-
ferential voting, the lack of which led to
Tammany’s triumph in 1924; the only real
difference is that there will be 15 aider-
men instead of 26. The Bavinshaw Govern-
ment learns nothing and forgets a lot.
There are clear signs of a revolt at
Broken Hill, which may have large conse-
quences. For half a year every mine work-
man there has paid half a crown in the £ of
his earnings to the northern coalminers —
or has been supposed to ; —though when the
smashing levy was made he was assured
that the trouble at Maitland couldn’t last
more than “a few days.” The other after-
noon 1200 people attended a meeting of
protest; the Trades Hall meeting in sup-
port couldn’t muster 200. Bondy Hoare is
being rushed to the scene of impending
disaster; for the sudden withdrawal of
between £5OOO and £6OOO a fortnight is
going to have more than the “psychological
effect” that there is so much talk about.
Information is anxiously awaited about
an alleged mass of manuscript or type-
written material said to have been carelessly
left behind in ail official or semi-official
drawer at Canberra, and found there after
the old Ministry left. It is hard to see what
any Ministry would gain by collecting and
then leaving behind data about opponents’
drinks and girl's, though men collect many
things, including postage-stamps. Facsimiles
of some of the documents, with names
blacked out for the sake of secrecy, should
be published, together with the certificate
of some unimpeachable authority like the
Chief Justice that he has seen the collection
and that it is real. For that matter, the
Prime Minister’s sworn affidavit would be
something.
The Federal basic wage, as altered on
May 1, varied from £4 Is. 6d. p.w. in Bris-
bane to £4 15s. p.w. in Sydney. It is sup-
posed to provide for a family of five, and
so is the Queens-
land basic wage,
which has stood at
£4 ss. p.w. for four
years. The West-
ralian minimum is
£4 7s. p.w. and the
South Australian
£4 ss. 6d. p.w.; the
unit in these
States is man,
wife and two
children. Victoria
and Tasmania do
not declare basic
wages. Federal
Labor - member
Curtin, in the minority report of the
Child Endowment Commission, suggested
that all. "wage-fixing tribunals should adopt
the family-of-four unit, and that the Com-
monwealth should thereupon allow mothers
£lO p.a. for each child in excess of two,
lowering the income-tax exemption to £2OO
so as to get part of the money from per-
sons without dependants. Mr. Curtin will
now have an opportunity of impressing his
views on a Federal Labor Government.
Had he obeyed his first impulse Jim
Fenton would have retired from politics
along with Matthew Charlton; he went so
far as to announce that he would not be
a candidate in 1928. But he thought better
of it; and now he is Minister of Customs.
Fenton, a printer by trade, got in for Mari-
byrnong (Vic.) at the expense of Samuel
Mauger in 1910, and has found it one of the
safest of Labor seats. He is a good Pro-
tectionist.
The luck of politics! Needham, of Wesc-
ralia, held a safe Senate seat from 1906
to 1919. Then he went out for a term, to
re-appear in 1922, and become Opposition
leader in the Senate in 1926. Had he stayed
there he must have been one of the first of
the Caucus-chosen Ministers. But he lost his
Senate ticket again last year, and, although
Mann’s defection from the Nationalist ranks
gave him a chance of becoming M.H.R. for
Perth, he just failed to pull it off. So Green
reaps where Needham sowed.
In its exuberance of joy over the down-
fall of Bruce-Page, the Tas. Labor Opposi-
tion hurled a no-confidence motion at the
MoPhee Government. The debate raged for
two days, and the motion failed by 15 to 14,
Independent Pearsall (who had been out
campaigning with poor McWilliams) voting
with the Government. The heat generated
by the argument has probably fused the In-
dependent tail more firmly than ever to the
Nat. party, and so increased McPhees
chance of continuing to mark time for the
remaining half of his three years term.
Queensland Parliamentary refreshment-
rooms are running true to State-enterprise
form —they showed a loss of £1620 on tile
financial year. There is an item of £lll
owing by sundry creditors to the bar. Ur
course it should rank as a Permanent and
Reproductive Work, but the difficulty is
whether to debit it to Development of Agri-
culture (Irrigation) or Mining (Deep-sink-
-111 One nasty feature of the Ministerial elec-
tion at Canberra was the set made against
the returned-soldier members, especially
Coleman, whose majorities in Reid (N.Is.W.)
have soared from 2000 to 32,000 In a
circular distributed before the ballot Cole-
man was accused of the heinous crime of
enlisting in 1918 and advising others to
enlist. And to the general surprise he was
rejected in favor of young Beasley, who
is decidedly his inferior in brains as well
as his junior in Parliamentary service.
Beasley did not go to the war, and has sug-
gested in the House that he ought to be
looked up to on that account.
Bradfield has scored over his rivals again
and his plans, with extensions, will be used
when Sydney’s city railway comes to the sur-
face at Circular Quay. After passing under
Government House or thereabouts and Mac-
quarie-street it will go over the ferry
wharves (there will
be a station there),
and continue over-
head across Pitt and
George streets before
diving under the
Rocks towards the
Wynyard-square, sta-
tion.' But quite as
big a thing has to be
done to disperse the
bridge traffic. It
would only cause
needless congestion to
lead this down by the
bridge into the heart
of the city, so wings
will be thrown out
overhead to carry
some of it into Mac-
quarie-street and an-
other to get rid of the
west-bound traffic.
This is in accordance
with the best Euro-
pean and American
practice: everywhere
now the great idea is
to relieve city conges-
tion by finding by-
roads.
New Federal Labor
Ministers prepare to
continue their great
leg-pulling act; Lyons,
speaking in Tasmania,
tells in shocked tones
of the dreadful vacancy they found when
they got into the Treasury. Rubbish, of
course! Neither Ministers nor anybody else
need look into the Treasury to know pre-
cisely how matters stand; Theodore knows
not one thing more to-day than he could
have known, and probably did know 7 , any
time in the past. Even now there is
no sign that the new Ministers realise
everything. But they have to profess to
make some terrible discovery in order to
excuse their failure to carry out promises
which they should have known—and pro-
bably did know—all along they had no hope
in the wide world of performing.
It is nearly 10 years since a House of
Reps, election was upset. On that occasion
Dave McGrath, of Ballarat, w 7 ho is to he
Chairman of Committees, w 7 as the success-
ful petitioner, and at the by-election he
converted a minority of 1 into a majority of
2000. In 1903 Dr. Maloney (Melbourne)
and ,J. M. Chanter (Riverina) lodged appeals
which were upheld; both -were well ahead
next time. The late A. C. Palmer, who
represented Echuea for 12 years, w 7 as the
only unseated member who ever won the
second contest; he underwent the ordeal
in 1907.
THE OTHER WAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. M. Burke: ‘The £14,000 a year now being
paid to the Civic Commissioners would give 20
aldermen a handsome salary.’
“Mr. Jaques: ‘And then they wouldn’t have to try
to get it any other way.’ ” —Assembly debate on
Sydney Corporation Amendment Bill.
The City Father from the scene a year or
two ago who slid,
He very seldom wore the lean and hungry
look that Cassius did.
He wasn’t an ascetic gent.; upon the glad-
some pop of corks
No disapproving eye lie bent; he loved the
clash of knives and forks.
His job had kudos, quite a lot, but if he
also yearned for pay
It couldn’t, patently, be got—not in the
ordinary way.
He gave his time, his talents too, in consul-
tation and debate,
Just as the legislators do whose pride it is to
serve the State
He labored for his fellows’ good, for civic
progress hard he wrought,
Or, anyway, he said he would, whene’er his
fellows’ votes he sought. _
No wage or guerdon his to claim —ostensibly,
that is to say;
Whatever quid pro quo there came, it wasn t
in the usual way.
Then grave Commissions took a hand, inex-
orably to disclose
True tales of tolls adroitly planned, of
“corns.” and “cuts” beneath the rose,
Yet are we blameless shame who cry on
those poor souls who went astray
And forfeited their jobs thereby? Nay, my
censorious brother, nay.
Think, with a decent salary—a thou, or
thereabouts p.a.—
They never would have had to try to get it
any other way.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


Poverty
Point
“Jack Point”: Our local pic-
ture showman doesn’t care much
for the gaudy posters advertis-
ing his Hollywood offerings, so
he has a hoarding of liis own
on which he gives the title of
the shocker to be screened “at
our next show,” with a snappy
little slogan embracing his own
summary. The other week he
showed a thing called “Three
Passions,” and added his own
rider. “Religion, Wealth and
Luv.” This week he has ex-
celled himself. If he doesn’t get
a record crowd it shows a lack
of appreciation. The hoarding
reads : “Sinners in Love —a
Virgin in a Vortex of Vice.”
“E.E.W.”: Another Austra-
lian girl to, score across the
pond is Nancy Brown, a pretty
Sydneysider, who, after appear-
ing in a series of small parts in
comedy and musical shows in
London, caught the eye of C.
B. Cochrane whilst playing in
“Show Boat.” Cochrane brought
her under the notice of Noel
Coward, and Coward’s latest
effort, “Bitter Sweet,” is now
due to open in New York with
Nancy playing lead. The show
goes back to the era of bustles,
leg-of-mutton sleeves and wasp
ivaists, though a note of satire
on modern life is introduced.
“Blum”: One of the chief
mourners on the stage at the
obsequies of Sydney Tiv. was
Jimmy Bain, in his day—and it
wasn’t a very long day—the
funniest low comedian I’ve seen
in 40 years of vaudeville-fre-
quenting. I’ve seen James make
half a dozen first appearances in
various cities, and in every case
he scored a reception of a sort
unequalled in my experience.
Attired in a white suit and
carrying a large black umbrella
he strode on the stage with an
air of profound gloom, took up
his stance in the exact centre,
leaned slightly sideways on his
brolly and gazed woodenly at
the audience. He didn’t have
to do a thing for three or four
minutes, while the house rocked
in uncontrollable mirth.
“Binjimin”: North of Eng-
land hunting men have been
celebrating the centenary of
that devastating melody “John
Peel.” The old Cumberland
M.F.H. was impersonated at
the gathering, and his original
horn was used to muster hounds
out of cover. What “How We
Beat the Favorite” was to the
Australian of 50 years ago, and
what “The Man from Snowy
River” became to a later
generation, so has “John Peel”
been to the afflicted individual
of British stock the world over
—as cruel as the grave and
as remorseless as Gehenna. Its jiggety
refrain has been bellowed from the
Crozets to Spitzbergen and from Bonny to
Zanzibar, 99.99 per cent, of the bellowers
being persons who couldn’t tell a for’ard
cast from a worm cast if called upon to
adjudicate.
Cauboy”: The way actors, especially
amateur actors, consume whisky on the stage
leaves me dumb with admiration. At a
recent repertory performance in Melbourne
one character during one 20-minute act
surrounded five three-quarters-full tum-
blers of what was ostensibly raw spirit with-
out turning a hair. During the same even-
ing another character who was called upon
to represent a decline into intoxication be-
came drunk and incapable 30 seconds after
throwing down two small doses from the
same decanter.
“T.P.”: The compulsory Australasian
section of the American picture entertainment
is farcical, if that of two leading Melbourne
"palaces ’ visited by me recently may be
taken as fair sample. Thanks to Bulletin
protests the insulting preliminary screen
notice has been abandoned ; but the pictures
are Puerile. One I saw. “Romantic New
Zealand, was an ancient, streaky, unsatisfac-
tory film that should be scrapped; in the
other the few patrons who sat the thing out
watched an engine hauling trucks of diet,
varied by illustrations of ’buses in Collins-
street. Are satisfying pictures showing
glorious Australian sea and landscapes, big
industrial processes, etc., available for these
entrepreneurs? If not. why not?
“O. I. Saye” : At the Trafalgar Day cele-
bration at Flinders Naval Base on October
18 the spectators “with uncovered heads rose
to add their tribute to his memory” when
the band played “The Death of Nelson.”
The tune to which they listened was.Mehul’s
“Chant du Depart,” and its connection with
the hero of Trafalgar was merely a piece
of musical plagiarism on the part of Braham.
Nor was Braham the first to plagiarise it.
Offenbach introduced it in “La fille du Tam-
bour Major,” and in Paris it was the hit
of that opera. When “La fille” was staged
in London the audience recognised what it
knew as “The Death of Nelson” and was
not impressed.
“F.S.” : Now that the talkies have drawn
away the sensation-lovers from the legiti-
mate theatre, entrepreneurs are contemplat-
ing a renaissance of the intellectual drama.
An announcement that S’Benj and John
Fuller are going to reopen Melbourne Palace
BACK TO THE OLD JOBS.
“After the declaration of the polls a few defeated members proceeded to Canberra, but
most of them returned to their homes and their former occupations.” —Daily paper.
with a series of plays to be produced by
Gregan McMahon looks interesting. Except
for “The Barker,” which had the air of
the surprised innocence of one who had let
himself into the wrong flat, the Palace has
not imposed any undue mental strains on its
customers for as far back as present writer
can remember. There are some worthy
people in the company, including Kay
Souper, Campbell Copelin, Ellis Irving and
Beatrice Day. Plays will include “Bird in
Hand.” “Thunder in the Air,” “To What
Red Hell” and “Jacob’s Ladder.”
“C. Ma”: The first night showing of the
film version of “Anna Karenina,” described
by the producers as “Tolstoy’s immortal
story,” was an immense success in one'
Asiatic seaport. Even the theatre proprietors
w r ere puzzled at the fervency of the public’s
enthusiasm. All was made clear on the
following morning. The local printer had
changed “immortal” into “immoral!” Good
news travels fast in the Orient.
“Demetrius”: English papers show that
the Victor McLaglen film now being screened
in Australia under the title of “The Black
Watch” is in Britain known by the same
name as the Talbot Mundy book upon which
it is founded, “King, of the Khyber Rifles.”
The reason given is that both the British
public and the Black Watch regiment would
not permit one of the nation’s most famous
battalions to be butchered to make a feature-
film. In Australia the catch-penny inaccu-
rate title stands.
“Hamfat”: Feuchtwanger’s “Jew Suss"
has found its way to the stage, Matheson
Lang enacting the character of Suss in an
adaptation by Ashley Duke, which was tried
on the dog at Blackpool (Eng.) and is to
be given a run through the provinces before
it appears in London. Incidentally, those
who rushed the first edition of the English
translation of “Jew Suss” made a good
investment. The first-edition price is now
£3 and rapidly soaring.
“M.S.” : It is hard to understand why pro-
fessed supporters of the legitimate stage are
so eager to play the movie magnates’ game
and join the chorus of calamity-howling. As
far as Melbourne is concerned, at any rate,
the talkies have made no real difference.
“Whoopee,” “Show Boat” and “Journey’s
End”' have all been doing good business, and
for three shows to be succeeding simul-
taneously is a fair achievement for Mel-
bourne. It is true that the Palace is shut-
tered and silent, but it has seldom been
anything else, in my experience.
“Craiser”: Englishman Howard Carr,
who twice conducted performances of his
own works in Melbourne recently, meditates
forming a light-opera syndicate, which will
vouchsafe to Australian audiences one or
more of his own musical plays. Carr came
here as musical director to the Firm, but
has finished his contract.
“Cauboy”: The inspiring prophecy of the
talkie entrepreneurs that their vocal photos
of distinguished virtuosi would for ever pre-
clude their appearance again in person in
this country is unavoidably postponed, as
far as the next couple of years is concerned,
at any rate. E. J. Carroll’s enterprises
include Kreisler again in 1931, Florence
Austral and husband Amadio, the flautist,
the same season, and Wolfi, a youthful vio-
linist whom Paris has gone crazy about,
in 1932. From the Williamson front the
puff pars, can be heard exploding round the
names of Kubelik and Geleen. Kubelik needs
no bush, but of Geleen it may be said that
she is a * 16-year-old pianist in whom the
Mexican Government is taking a benevolent
interest.
“Adam Ant”: 'Teddie Landor lies des-
perately ill of an incurable malady in Mel-
bourne. An English actor, he came here in
“The Glad Eye” company. He was, in
England, a member of Miss Horniman’s
repertory co. in Manchester for many years,
where he played everything from Greek
tragedy to broad farce. He was in the
original West-end cast of “ITindle Wakes.”
In Australia Teddie played with Oscar Asche,
Dion Boucicault, Guy Bates Post and John
D. O’Hara, and he was Allan Wilkie’s comic
for a long spin.
“Sudah Habis”: There is an extraordinary
conjunction of talent in the author of the first
all-British ballet, now in course of prepara-
tion in London. Geoffrey Keynes, its creator,
is a surgeon at St. Bartholomews, and a
leading authority on cancer. His literary
relaxation is William Blake, and it is that
mystic’s rhythmic illustrations to the Book
of Job w-hich have given him the inspiration
for his ballet.
“Oshkosh”: The first talkie was made
without a screen or a microphone. The
reverend father of beauty actor Kyrle Bel-
lew staged scenes from Shakspeare in which
the actors on the stage pantomimed, while
he spoke every part from the orchestra well.
A second performance was too much for
Bellow. The first proved too much for the
audience.
“Santander” : The Firm hopes
that Ernest Lotinga and eo. will
induce its Melbourne Tivoli
supporters to change the habits
of a lifetime and shout out loud
for burlesque. Lotinga. who is
related to the Lupiuos, has been
doing Britain for some years
in a series of festive distur-
bances, of which his opening
Melbourne show-, “August,
11)14,” is his choicest joy. In
the event of this failing to
win the populace he has mobi-
lised for. mass attacks on their
funny-bones five other efforts:
“Police Force,” “Sailors Don’t
Care,” “House Full,” “Mouse,
Trap” and “Khaki.” The sea-
son is expected to last until
Christmas, when Frank Neil’s
latest purchase, “Clowns in
Clover,” will be given a run.
“Goldilocks” : The successes of
Irving Berlin are a natural sub-
ject for scoff; but the memoirs
of Charles Coburn recall that
the popularity of flam is not a
modern development. The man
who was once the idol of Lon-
don wrote and sang that master-
piece of futility “Two Lovely
Black Eyes.” It was trans-
lated into every language in
Europe.
“Fana”: Instead of having
the beneficial effects expected,
the Victorian film quota law
seems to be helping some ex-
hibitions to prejudice then-
patrons against the local article.
At a number of suburban and
country theatres lately there,
have been exhibited Australian
films produced 20 years ago
with all the obvious arid hideous
imperfections of that period.
At each screening it was plainly-
indicated that the awful things
had been made in Australia.
“J.C.” (Cambridge, Eng.) :
In September I looked in on
"The Merry Widow” —Die Lus-
tigc Witwc —having a season in
the Gaertner Theatre, Munich,
and can say that Australians
have no cause for envy as far
as dramatic presentation in that
part of the world goes. The
production was decidedly in-
ferior to the J.C.W. effort in
which Gladys Moncrieff played
in the title-role. The acting
was nowhere near J.C.W.’s
standard, the chorus was ill-,
balanced, consisting chiefly of
female voices, and the singing
and acting of the Widow was
not a patch on Gladys Mon-
criefif’s.
“Santander” : The languor of
excessive riches has come over
W. C. Sherriff, author of “Jour-
ney’s End.” When the drama
was first earnirig him dividends
the ex-insurance clerk let it be
known that he had now the
incentive to take the pen be-
tween his teeth and write for
liis life. Since that date the
remarkable triumph of the play
has changed the tune of Mr.
Sherriff. He is now placidly
reconciled to the prospect of
having more cash than he can
possibly spend, and no longer
prattles of the further works of
genius that were to drop from
his nib. His pitiable state of
affluence may be judged from
the fact that he sold the talkie
rights of his piece for 75.000
dollars, with a percentage from
profits, and for some time has been col-
lecting £2OOO a week in royalties from
the various companies doing the play. Apart
from the one in Australia, there are now
three in England, three on the Continent
and two in America relating the tale of the
dug-out to crowded houses.
“Feng-Shui”: It is difficult to get Aus-
tralian audiences to enter a theatre during
the summer months in any circumstances,
but it would be doubly hard if they were
offered the sort of pabulum the producer of
Nippon reserves for the dog days. In Japan
the lighter fare is kept for the winter. In
summer, ghost stories, tragedies and the local
equivalent of “Dracula” are the order of the
evening. The reason given is that tales of
horror induce perspiration, perspiration in-
duces evaporation and evaporation causes
physical coolness.
The dozen superb drawings which Norman
Lindsay did to illustrate “The Quarter-
master” have been reproduced in two-tone
ink on art paper, and are now on sale at The
Bulletin's chief office, Sydney, and at all
branch offices. The complete set of one
dozen drawings costs only 25., and to put
country subscribers on the same footing as
triose of the cities, the set will be sent post-
free from the head office to any address in
Australasia.
PANTALOON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Blame not the ancient rheumy Pantaloon
For that he falls in love with Columbine,
Love knows nor rank nor circumstance nor
clime;
liis arrows pierce the armored breast of
Time,
And wisdom shrinks from his impassioned
wine.
Rlame not the child who
clutches at the Moon.
The old man’s mind, like an
o’er-written page,
A palimpsest, yet holds tin-
hidden Truth.
Dulled and obscured by sordid
battlestains,
The still unconquered soul of
him contains,
Somewhere within the shrivelled
shell of Age.
'l’lie unchanged kernel of un-
changing Youth !
S.A.
CHARLES HENRY SOUTER.


mt
■
mm
mmrnlmm ■ '
fSm
■ : :
ill
i
mm
mmm § a :
l§ I
v
,
mm
A
A
■
i ■
; ■
: 1 •
; :
m
:
m
•>%
»
%i
U
HP
! I
mm
■
ran
&****%
SP^
iw J
• m
V" ■ U’*.' ' . ~i
mm '"-
■
1 ■
■
■
u
m
m ■ i
-
& '
,“*r J
8H99
BH
:: Is Is*
iiilt»»liiii»
iipii»#PPj
y
"** .
5* i« / 2-j ii «> f
mi iiiiii* i«i sii
- ■
!
1
T’S complete change
that brings the finest
holiday benefits. And
here you find it, just a few
davs away —in New Zealand .
Here is unending change, new
sights, new things to do. An
ideal Summer-land where de-
lightful days and cool nights
contribute to your pleasure.
Come this Summer!
Write to the New Zealand Gov-
ernment Tourist Department for
full information. If necessary a
representative will call on you .
Melbourne : Mr. H. J. Manson,
Dominion Chambers,
59 William Street
Syaney. Mr. W. R. Blow,
London Bank Chambers, 20
Martin Place
Brisbane: Mr. T. G. Dewar,
King House, Queen Street
Adelaide : Mr. Victor H. Ryan,
Director of South Australia
Intelligence and Tourist
Bureau
Perth : Messrs. A. S. McClintock
and Co., Queen's Buildings, 285
Murray Street
NZG.4
L.
m
j
m
■W' #v.
m
H
mam
mm
®iw®Bw
m
>-,v.
J


The Bulletin
FIRST
AID
OUTFIT
In Pigskin Case.
ALL who motor should have one—be
prepared—you never know. It con-
tains CHLORO-lODINE, the improved
lodine preparation—it neither “STINGS”
nor “STAINS” the flesh and is non-
poisonous—stops bleeding—soothes and
cleanses. Keep the outfit handy in the
car pocket.
15/6
complete
as above.
ROTHWELLS OUTFITTING
LTD
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE
The Bulletin
The Bulletin
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
When you come to
SYDNEY
You will find at Usher’s every essen-
tial to the enjoyment of your visit.
Hotel service that is homelike,
cuisine of rare excel-
lence, and that
friendly hospitality
which you desire.
Telephone and run-
ning water in all
rooms. Book accom-
modation early.
I Sed and
Breakfast
Tariff
if desired
Special tariff or inclusive terms.
Tlshetfo
L
H O
T
OPP. THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY
’Phone 86511 (10 lines).
Cable & Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel,” Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
In a par. now going the rounds it is
asserted that “a record tenure of the office
of Prime Minister was established by Mr.
Bruce.” Hughes began the first of his four
consecutive Ministries on October 27, 1915,
and finished the last on February 9. 1923,
which was seven years and 105 days. Bruce’s
record was from February 9, 1923, to
October 21, 1929, or six years and 251 days.
Viscount Craigavon, Northern Ireland’s
Prime Minister, i,s a likeable potentate who
isn’t too proud to talk trade and put in a
good word for Belfast linen. He is to be
banqueted by the McPherson Government in
Melbourne to-night-—which is rather a mock-
ery, as his doctors have restricted him to
a special diet. Craigavon will be the guest
for a few days of fellow-Ulsterman Irvine,
C.J., who left off rubber-stamping for Gover-
nor Somers on Monday.
The late Reg Broomfield, K.C., specialised
in Admiralty, as became a son of Captain
Broomfield, of Balmain (N.S.W.), but he
was a master at any kind of Common Law
work. He had a fighting face, voice and
manner, and he was a relentless cross-
examiner, but his victims never bore him
malice, and lie was loved at the Bar. The
explanation was that he was without malice
himself, and never did a dirty thing, pro-
fessionally or privately, in his life. For over
REGGIE BROOMFIELD, K.C.
four years Broomfield had been courageously
awaiting death from heart disease. He
married beautiful Anne Love, of Castlemaine
(subject of a famous Longstaff picture),
who, with two children, survives him.
Frank Brennan, the new Commonwealth
Attorney-General, belongs to a bright family
with divided political sympathies. Brother
T.C. is a leading Vic. criminal lawyer;
Frank has a big law business; a sister _is
in partnership with him; Harry is the chief
law reporter for Melbourne Argus ; and
Billy writes Argus leaders. Another brother
is secretary of the Strathfieldsaye Shire
Council, a position his father had before him.
Frank and T.C. studied law while pushing
pens on the Inky Way.
W. N. McFarlane, manager of the N.S.W.
Government Insurance Office, has issued his
last.policy, at 58. A Scot, with almost life-
long experience of insurance work, he was
snapped up by the Lang Government in
1926, and for once the business community
allowed that Slang had appointed a good
man. He died in harness, as he would have
wished.
Felton station, on the Darling Downs, is
a Tyson property once more. Mortgaged to
Jimmy Tyson by Alfred Sandeman, who
went to England and lived in too princely
a fashion, Felton became the millionaire
squatter’s most cherished possession, and it
was there that he died
in liis sleep on Dec. 4,
1898, aged 75. It has had
several owners since, and
a lot of the original
40,000 acres have been
sold. What is left of it
now belongs to J. A.
Tyson, a grand-nephew of
Jimmy, most of whose
life has been spent in
Sydney.
Like Hurry, of Ben-
digo, Llewellyn Atkin-
son, the defeated M.11.R.
for Wilmot (Tas.), has
gone, back to the law. A
Latrobe man, he is a
member of the old-estab-
lished legal firm of Atkin-
son and Scott. Atkinson
conducted his campaign
and took his beating—
the first in a public
career of nearly quarter
of a century—in a sport-
ing spirit; he was one
of the first to congratu-
late Joe Lyons, his con-
queror.
Arthur Lewis, the new
Labor member for Corio,
is a ready speaker, and
as an A.N.A. debater,
secretary to the Road
Transport Union and
assistant-secretary to the
Carters and Drivers’ he
gets plenty of practice.
He is a stickler for form
in debate, and there is an
impression that he would
rather see a conference
wrecked than have it de-
part by half an inch
from the standing orders.
Though many of his
carters and drivers are
connected with the Trade,
Lewis is a prohibitionist.
F. A. LAKEMAN, an Adelaide
man whose philanthropy
was responsible for the Lake-
man Institute for Seamen
at the Outer Harbor, for-
mally opened last week
while the Australia and
Canberra were there.
Some November birthdays :
Bishop McCarthy (Sandhurst), 71, Prof. Skeats
(Melb. Uni.), 54, and sculptor Paul Montford, 61,
on Ist; J. P. Camm (W.A. Surveyor-Gen.), 56, on
2nd; Capt. T. A. White (“Diggers Abroad”)) 13,
on 4th; Bishop Long (Newcastle), 54, and Lancelot
Stirling (Pres, of S. Aus. Leg. Council), 80, on stli;
Federal Senator Massy Greene, 55, on 6th;' Prof.
Woodhouse (Syd. Uni.), 63, and Atlee Hunt (Federal
Public Service Arbitrator), 65, on 7th; James Elder
(Melb.), 60, on 10th; Hugh Denison, 64, Prof.
Cotton (Syd. Uni.), 46, Vic. Gov. Statist Laughton,
61, and Percy C. Oake (Sec. Melb. Chamber of
Manufactures), 42, on 11th; Arthur Lovekin, M.L.C.
(W.A.), 70, and Samuel Mauger (formerly M.H.R.
for Melb. Ports), 72, on 12th; Dr. Heavey (Vicar-
Apostolic of Cooktown), 61, on 13th Rabbi Cohen
(Syd.), 67, and Dr. Battye (Perth Public Library),
58, on 14th; Justice Long. Innes (N.S.W.), 60,
Arthur Rickard (Syd.), 61, and novelist W. Gosse
Hay (S. Aus.), 54, on 17th; C. E. Bean (War-
historian), 50, and N.S.W. pastoralist-knight N. W.
Rater, 55, on 18th; M. M. Blackburn, M.L.A. (Vic.),
49, Colonel Cameron, M.H.R. for Brisbane, 50, and
Jas. Mcßae (Vic. . Education Dept.), 58, on 19th;
Major-Gen. Barber (Director-Gen. of Medical Services),
61, on 20th; Principal Griffith (Vic. Congregational
Coll.), 54, and Dr. J. Mildred Creed, M.L.C.
(N.S.W.), 87, on 21st; John Cowan (S. Aus.
Minister of Agriculture), 63, on 22nd; Willie Watt,
58, on 23rd; Bishop Ashton (Grafton), 63, on 24th;
C.’ J. Cerutty (Federal Auditor-Gen.), 59, Col. H.
E. Cohen, 48, and Capt. A. S. Blackburn, V.C.,
37, on 25th; Bishop Cranswick (Gippsland), 47,
and poet Rod Quinn, 60, on 26th; Kenneth Binns
(librarian Commonwealth Library), 47, on 28th;
Federal Chief Justice Knox, 66, Justice Cussen (Vic.),
70, Colonel G. J. Bell, M.H.R. for Darwin (Speck),
57, on 29th; N.S.W. Speaker Levy, 57, poet Sydney
Jcphcott, 65, and R. J. Nosworthy (Burns, Phiip
and Co.), 68, on 30th.
Arthur Groom, whose ‘‘Merry .Christmas!”
is to begin in next week’s Bulletin, doesn't
write about life on a northern cattle-station
from hearsay. The son of an original mem-
ber'of the House of Reps., he was 16 when
he was sent jackerooing in the Gulf Coun-
try, and a year or two later he was manag-
ing one of his father’s stations on the Flin-
ders. For five years after that he did pretty
well every job a man can do in the back
country, and built up that knowledge of
the great cattle lands on the Queensland-
Northern Territory border of which he has
made such tine use in his unique story.
Flags have been half-masted in Wellington
for John Bollins, skipper of the Government
steamer Tutanekai. In his youth a wreck
in Fouveaux Strait cast him on Maoriland
shores, and for 53 years he sailed the coast,
of which he was reputed to know more than
any other man ashore or afloat. His collec-
tion of sea-birds’ eggs and shells was one ot
the finest in the world.
Joseph Silver Collings, the State Labor
party’s organiser in Queensland, is a tall,
spare man with white hair, an iron-grey
beard and a full equipment of energy ami
optimism. It is bis job to visit the A.L#.l.
branches and to keep militants and mod-
erates from flying apart. He’s been doing
it for years, and must have been round
Queensland many times. An apt speaker,
lie is an insatiable reader,
and no slave of the
machine.
A remarkable person-
ality was W. A. Magarcy,
dead in Adelaide at 61,
after a long illness. He
was a law-partner of G.
J. R. Murray till Mur-
ray, now C.J., went on
the Bench. Both very
tall and handsome, and
with charming manners,
they made a striking
pai r. Magarcy was
afterwards partnered by
Isbis t e r, K.C., and
Charles Hayward. He
did not take any great
part in public life, but
had considerable influ-
ence when he cared to
use it, and was a notable
figure in sport. His wife
was Miss Giuli Hack, one
of S.A.’s leading autho-
rities on music.
Frank Anstey’s mem-
ory will be a help to him
in Ministerial office.
Once in the Vic. Assem-
bly a Ministerialist mem-
ber made some refer-
ences to decimal coinage.
Ans'tey disputed them,
and after dinner made a
long speech on the
abstruse subject. In the
dinner hour lie had
conned it up in the
library, and his part was
word-perfect after one
reading only.
Broken Hill’s hospital
gets £lOOO from the
estate of James Sloan.
The old chap’s Globe
Hotel was in the fair-
way to and from the
proprietary when the
Prop, was the big mine, and took a brewery
to keep it supplied. He had another pub a
little way down from the Globe. Nineteen
years in the more pleasant surroundings of
Glenelg did not dim his memory of the roar-
ing old Barrier days.
Some years ago Professor Alexander
McAulay, of Hobart Uni., announced that
he was doomed to blindness, but would carry
on until darkness fell. The failing eyes
lasted better than was expected; but the
bra .-c old prof, has had to sever his asso-
ciation with the Uni., which lasted 36 years.
A son born two years after the old man
reached Tasmania will represent the family;
he is Professor of Physics.
The grave has claimed Vernon Bernard
Trapp, one of the best-known of Australian
timber experts. Victoria is his debtor for
ardent and persistent advocacy of the de-
velopment of its forestry resources. _ A
founder of the St. John. Ambulance Society
in Melbourne, he did so much for that organ-
isation that he was made a Knight of Grace
of the Order of St. John of Jerusalem, and
his investiture by the King took place at
Buckingham Palace. In his youth Trapp
played in inter-colonial cricket. An East
Melbourne clubsman, he was a tiptop bats-
man, a brilliant field and a handy change-
bowler.
Lady Sarah Wilson, daughter of the
seventh Duke of Marlborough and widow
of Gordon Chesney Wilson, an Australian,
is dead in London. A war correspondent
in the Boer imbroglio, Lady Sarah w T as
wished on to Baden-Powell for the siege of
Mafeking, and by all accounts these two pub-
licity experts didn’t hit it. She was cap-
tured by the fprees of Manie Eloff, who was
conducting the very gentlemanly siege ; after
a few days the distracted Manie offered to
exchange the lady for any prisoner B.P. had.
This was done, and Sarah lived to write her
“Memories of South Africa” and to bring
many prominent people of those days close to
apoplexy.
General Sir Philip Chetwode’s promotion
to the post of C.I.C. in India will be popu-
lar with Australian Light Horsemen and
Cameliers who served under him in Sinai
and Southern Palestine. The debonair little
Hussar arrived in Egypt with a fine repu-
tation as commander of the Fifth Cavalry
Brigade during the retreat from Mons. He
was not keen on Australian troopers at
first; “the beggars won’t salute me,” he com-
plained, “and laugh at my orderlies.” But
lie soon changed his tune. After the Anzac
Mounted Division had mopped up the Turks
at Magdahba, an operation in which his
own command assisted, he told an indaba
of officers that it was the first time in his-
tory that mounted troops had carried re-
doubts on foot with fixed bayonets. An
Australian officer reminded him that at Blen-
heim the Scots Greys, then the Second Dra-
goons, had turned the same trick. Chetwode
mapped out the plan for the turning of the
Turkish flank at Beerslieba and the subse-
quent operations which Allenby pursued
down to the Turkish debacle at Damascus.
Albert Green, Australia’s new Minister
for Defence, has been 18 years in politics,
with one brief spell. A Victorian, lie learned
the bricklaying trade; then the wanderlust
seized him, and he roamed up and down the
TJ.S.A. in all sorts of company. He re-
turned to Australia with a lot of assorted
experiences and the nickname of “Texas”
(he has worn it ever since), and settled
down to a steady billet in the Kalgoorlie
G.P.0., where he" looked after the money-
order business with unflagging industry,
devoting his leisure to A.N.A. activities.
“Texas” won the Kalgoorlie State seat
in 1911, but resigned it when C. E.
Frazer’s death caused a vacancy in the
Federal division. He thought himself sure
of the Labor nomination, but Hugh Mahon
beat him for it. That was his only electoral
set-back; he presently recovered the State
seat, and held it until 1922, when he ousted
George Foley from the coveted M.H.R.’s job.
An amiable politician, with plenty of friends
outside of those of his own party brand,
he might have made a good P.M.G.; but
what he will be expected to know about
Defence matters has still to be learned.
Richard Ralston King, sometime manager
of Mort’s Dock, is dead in Sydney at 03.
Born in Glasgow, he became one of that
glorious company of engineers which has
spread the fame of Scotland from one end
of the earth to the other. King’s first job
in Australia was as superintendent for J.
and A. Brown, of Newcastle, in 1890; from
Newcastle he went to the Atlas works at
Woolwich.. He was chief draftsman at
Mort’s before he became manager in 1918.
Failing health compelled his retirement a
few weeks ago.
Albert George Ogilvie is the Speck Labor
party’s new leader, and George G. Becker
is deputy-leader. Ben Watkins, the party
Whip, who had been acting-leader while
Lyons and Guy were chasing (and catching)
Tasmania’s New Labor leader
ALBERT OGILVIE.
Federal seats, was a candidate for both posi-
tions, but was pipped in the ballots; a few
days later he was smashed up in a car acci-
dent, and will be in hospital for some time.
Ogilvie is the only lawyer on the Opposition
side. A ready debater and a caustic critic,
he is as capable of making political enemies
as Lyons was of making political friends.
Becker was lay Attorney-General in the
Lyons Ministry for a time, Ogilvie having
resigned when his legal firm struck trouble
a couple of years ago.
WHEN BILLY SINGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“It is not generally Known that W. M. Hughes
has a sweet tenor voice.” —Melbourne Sun.
You who have heard him thunder from the
heights
And cringed below,
You who have shivered from the curse that
blights
As from a blow,
Forget awhile the all-but-shattered drum
Your ear that stings,
And know that envious nightingales grow
dumb
When Billy sings.
You who have quailed before his shout and
groan
And given ground,
Been blithered, blasted and to blazes blown
On gales of sound,
Lift up your heads, too long in terror boxved,
Poor trembling things,
And learn that cooing doves sound harsh and
loud
When Billy sings.
You, who so oft have braved its brash uproar,
With me rejoice
To hear it has its gentler repertoire,
That awesome voice.
Yet —this discounting thought on me recoils,
Recoils and clings :
That always it is just before it boils
A billy sings!
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


The Bulletin
“Narara”: Youthful grandmothers (B.
23/10/’29) ? I know one who gained the
distinction at 33. She was married soon
after her 15th birthday, and her first child,
a daughter, married a few days after she
was 16. Incidentally, this grandmother had
two children after the arrival of her first
grandchild.
* * t-
“Percy Pawnticket”: The recent adven-
tures ashore of a-powerfully-built Swedish
sailor may have started earlier, but they first
attracted police attention when the mariner
was dragged out of a brawl in a Sydney
pub. After receiving medical attention for
liis injuries, he was taken to the station,
where, apparently sobered, he was given bail.
Two hours later he was back in hospital for
injuries sustained by a fall down a flight of
steps which would have broken the average
man’s neck. Before the night was out he
made yet another appearance for patching
purposes, after getting in the way of a motor-
car, and left, this time, with a broken arm.
Early next morning he was back again for
the tending of hurts occasioned by a fall
from a tram; and the same afternoon he
received final repairs for a scalp wound evi-
dently inflicted by a well-swung bottle. This
series of hectic happenings was mentioned
THE DIAGNOSIS.
Well, Missus, I’ve examined yer all over, an’ I find yer system’s all gone to pot. Yer
pipes are choked up an’ yer elbows are cracked. I’d advise you to have ’em all
tore out, an’, if I was you, I’d try copper. They’ll cost more but you’ll get more
comfort out of ’em.”
when an extensively bandaged Swede
appeared in court to answer the original
charge of drunkenness and disorderly con-
duct. The delinquent denied any recollec-
tion of the offence with which he was
charged or any of his subsequent exploits,
“I ban haf a goot time, I t’ink,” he said
simply.
* * * *
“Cadonga”: The two dames on the seat
before me conversed volubly, mile upon mile.
Presently the ’bus topped a rise, and one
of them pointed excitedly at a house off
the roadside. “There! That’s Amy’s place!”
she cried. Her companion responded beam-
ingly: “Oh, how nice! Fancy your youngest
daughter being the first to marry—and to
marry so well!” Amy’s mother expanded.
“Yes,” she observed proudly, “she’s a very
lucky girl. There are ten rooms in that
house, and she’s got beautiful furniture.
And lovely clothes. But there’s always
something,” she went on reflectively, “she
can’t stand the man—never could, my dear!”
H* *5» : i :
“Coot”: What must surely be the smallest
sum of conscience money on record recently
reached the Melbourne G.P.O. It took the
form of a three-halfpenny stamp; the cover-
ing letter explained that the now contrite
writer had once annexed “one of your tele-
gram forms” for purposes of his own.
sj! % $
“S.V.D.”: Small pieces of metal have an
uncanny knack of getting into the human
eye, wherefore many artisans at iron-trade
factories have become skilled at removing
them. Most are content with a pointed
quill, a match or a magnetised sci’iber for
instrument. But one “eye-doctor” at H. V.
McKay’s Sunshine harvester factory (Vic.)
will use nothing but a pocket-knife with a
keen-edged blade. He uses it so deftly that
a patient hardly feels the blade “brushing”
across his eye, even when the operation takes
a little time.
* :S * *
“Thirdovaquid”: In Melbourne a recent
' immigrant from the Old Dart was found in
possession of six aluminium lamps and
charged with stealing them. He protested
that he had bought them, and offered to take
a constable to the shop, but it was considered
sufficient to send a man in blue to search for
the place. He didn’t find it, and reported that
it didn’t exist. So the accused got 14 days in
the cooler. But a reporter who heard the case,
and who knew the district better than the
policeman did, found the shop and induced
the proprietor to go to the gaol and identify
the man as the purchaser of the stuff he
was charged with stealing. The prisoner has
been released, but it remains to be seen
what redress lie will get and who will be
brought to book for his undeserved sufferings.
* * *
“B. Brief”: The papers say that some
Judges won’t have moving pictures shown
in their courts; but they are not all like
that. Judge Coyle, of the N.S.W. District
Court, has already viewed one at Goulburn.
It was something of an accident, too. There
was a collision, and a man in a third car
happened to be taking a movie of the pro-
ceedings thereabouts at the time. He didn’t
get the actual collision, but he “shot” enough
to make the counsel for one side strenuously
fight against the thing being unwound. The
Judge—the least conventional of all the men
on the N.S.W. Bench—decided to have a
look at it himself before he let the jury see
it; and he couldn’t see any reason why it
shouldn’t go in as evidence. Selwyn Betts, the
council who had objected, guessed right: he
might have won had he been able to keep
it out; he couldn’t win with it in.
i\i Hi ❖ Jfc
“Tee Essbie”: In between papers at the
qualifying-certificate examination, 15 years
ago, four of us swapped ambitions. Dick
was going to travel and see the world.
Harry, who was the son of a Salv’army
officer, was set on saving souls. Bill, who
had sold papers after school ever since he
was old enough to sing out “Sun or Noos,”
intended to work hard and buy a run of
his own. I myself was going on to Hurl-
stone Agricultural High School and Hawkes-
bury College to be made an agriculturist.
After the exam. Dick got a job as a junior
clerk. He is still in the same office, and
has never been more than 70 miles from
Sydney. Last Saturday night I was called on
to bail out Harry—it wasn’t the first time
either. As for myself, after completing my
courses at H.A.H.S. and H.A.C., I have been
a clerk, salesman, timber-worker, shunter,
surveyor, navvy and journalist, but never
anything remotely connected with husbandry,
Bill was the exception; he owns a remun-
erative paper-run and a row of suburban
cottages.
* * * *
“Cadonga”: With a companion I entered
a restaurant in Broome which bore in the
window a notice “No aboriginals admitted.”
We were speculating, over our fish, as to
how many abos. would be able to read the
warning when one of them opened the fly-
proof door and sidled in the direction of the
kitchen. Immediately there came from the
rear a bellow of “Get out of this, you damned
nigger!” and we saw the enraged pro-
prietor in the kitchen doorway brand-
ishing a saucepan. Pie was himself as black
as a union boycott! The intruder fled and
the proprietor, guessing he was the cause
of our amusement, straightened his apron
and introduced himself as “a colored man
POPULAR PHRASES EXPLAINED—“STRINGING HER ONE
of American extraction” who had many
times been round the world as cook in
British and American sailing vessels. But
it appeared that he could never overcome his
repugnance for Australian blackfellows; he
even commented despitefully on their aroma.
*J* H» * *
“Amps” : When I was a flapper telegraph-
operator in a drowsy little W.A. town, I
was considered expert “for a girl.” I found
my ability to read any sort of Morse signals
very handy in the village church, my for-
bidden swain being the operator from a
neighboring town. When the old-time con-
gregation bowed its reverent head in prayer
I flicked my eyelids in dot-and-dash messages
from the choir-seat to my sweetheart on the
other side of the building. It was always
useful in arranging a meeting-place after
church, provided I could give my obdurate
parents the slip. We sometimes employ the
same method now when diplomacy is called
for before the children !
“Morkrum” : Telegraphists wishing to ex-
change remarks about the company at table
manipulate a spoon-liandle between the tines
of a fork, and such signals are easily read-
able. I tried a competent operator with
“R. Volt’s” idea (B. 16/10/’29) of tapping
a saucer, but found him unable to distinguish
between B, C, F and the nine other four-
character letters; they all sounded alike with
four taps. If that' Edgar Wallace crook
knew the code, and “kcttledrummed” the
letters in shorts and longs, any Morse reader
would get it. But few actors have previously
been telegraph-operators, and I’ve never
heard readable signals from the stage.
“Kerys”: No need to go to an Edgar
Wallace mystery play to hear telegraphists
communicating in Morse over the teacups.
In an Auckland (M.L.) cafe during the war
a telegraphist I knew began in an almost
silent interval to toy with his spoon and cup.
Answering signals from a youth at the other
side of the room would have proclaimed to
the initiated that they were communicating
in Morse, both inserting the thin end of the
spoon into the handle of the cup to get the
back-click. One was giving the other a
scrap of war news which had just come
through.
;j. * *
“C.Q.”: There is one man in Melbourne
who never fails to cast his eyes skywards
when passing St. Paul’s Cathedral. He is
E. M. Nicholls, of the architectural firm of
Burley Griffin. When the scheme was first
started he contracted to buy all the end
pieces of the stones for a house he is build-
ing on the outskirts of Ivew. As the
enthusiasm of the people for completing the
“Gateway to the City” waxes or wanes, so
does Nicholls’s dwelling grow or remain
stationary. As he started it to house him-
self and a bride, acquired over a year ago,
he is at least as interested as Dean Aicken
in the completion of the pious project.
“Meteren”: The wettest train I ever
travelled on took us for our last train-ride
in France, from Charleroi to the coast. The
trouble began when it was discovered that
a canteen train, carrying a considerable
liquid cargo, was in the station alongside
ours; the u'sual raid resulted _in
dozens of cases of whisky being
distributed among our trucks.
After the whisky ran out it was
found that quartermasters, gener-
ous for once, had laid in rum
rations for three days. We did
the trip in just over a day, and
the whole of the rum was dished
out in one issue. As if that wasn’t
enough, some big demi-johns of
wine were waiting to be trucked
to Paris at one of the sidings
where we pulled up, and toll was
freely taken of these until the
station officials discovered that
their freight was disappearing.
Afterwards it taxed all the efforts
of the train C.O. merely to keep
the human cargo aboard. One
truck was turned into a hospital
for the casualties, already plenti-
ful. At Havre there were ambu-
lances waiting, but efforts to march the
survivors to our base camp were a failure.
In the end the mob was simply told to
report there, and they were still straggling
in hours after.
* * * *
“Scottie”: Americans arc so much
addicted to reserving all their bouquets for
themselves that it is refreshing to read in
the “New Universities Dictionary,” pub-
lished in New York, the following definition:
“Queen City —Adelaide, Australia, renowned
for its beautiful architecture and scenic sur-
roundings.”
* ❖ ❖ ❖
“S.T.S.” : An Adelaide artist has put over
a quite-new one on the Court which charged
him with being drunk while driving a motor-
car. He said his wobbly progress through
traffic was due to his watching the beauties
of the sunset. The P.M. was sufficiently
impressed to wipe out the police charge of
drunkenness, but he fined the delinquent for
dangerous driving. *
# * * *
“C.Q.”: A consistent visitor to hospital
bedsides in Melbourne is Chubby, a small,
brown Shetland belonging to N. Bartram,
of Heidelberg. Chubby will ascend the steep-
est staircase and even go up in a lift, if
necessary, and his bedside manners are irre-
proachable.
* * * *
“Colanne”: The Dulcie Barclay tragedy
in Brisbane and the subsequent magisterial
inquiries call attention to a peculiarity of
the Queensland law. There are no coroners
in the northern State, and in cases of sudden
death where the police detect no suspicious
circumstances an inquiry is deemed un-
necessary unless two disinterested people
demand it, when the local S.M. acts as
investigator. The consequence is that suicides
(if the press is complacent) are often hushed
up or glossed over as accidents or sudden
deaths. Yet a fire, however trifling, is always
investigated.
“J.E.”: The Bulletin (16/10/’29) digs
up that old question said to have been asked
by John Ball in 1381: —
When Adam delved and Eve span
Who was then the gentleman?
I haven’t heard of anybody furnishing an
answer, yet it seems simple enough. The
person inquired about, I should think, was
the manufacturer who supplied Adam with
the necessary spade, and Eve with the
spindle and distaff. He was probably not
rich, but he was a gentleman because he
was the pioneer of the class which has lifted
mankind out of the bog of ignorance and
the morass of animalism. Man is a tool-
inventing and tool-making animal, while the
monkey isn’t. Therefore it may be inferred
that" this unknown benefactor was a man.
If Adam did his own manufacturing then
he was a man, like McKay of the harvester
and his kind. Otherwise his most prominent
characteristic is that he was the biggest
landowner on record, and probably a monkey.
WHEN WE WERE YOUNG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Defendant, it was given in evidence, was driving
with one arm on the steering-wheel and the other
round a young lady’s waist. ‘We were all young
once,’ said the S.M., ‘but you want to do those things
when the car has stopped.’ ”
We sit in stuffy courts, the stern
Embodiments of Law,
Or p’raps our pay in pulpits earn
With words inspiring awe.
So rigidly austere our mien
You hardly would suppose
In years agone we, too, had been
Gay dogs and dashing beaux,
Till some admission such as this
Slips artless from the tongue.
The ways of lovers, let’s allow,
Were very much the same as now
When you and I were young.
Though cars with steering wheels to guide
Were things as yet undreamt,
Was that trim waist you sat beside
Less powerful to tempt?
When sweets like those were there to sip
Did you delay, old friend,
To shift the reins and stack the whip
Until the journey’s end?
Has human nature altered much
Since o’er the roads we swung,
Impassioned Jack and scrumptious Jill,
Along the lane and up the hill,
When you and I were young?
Now you and I are grave and staid—
Or should be if we’re not—
Such levities behind us laid,
Such follies nigh forgot.
We’ve wrestled with the Adam old—
Or I’m inferring that
We have —and ultimately rolled
His shoulders on the mat.
And yet—’twas pleasanter, admit,
The feeling when you flung
Your arm about the youthful Eve
(’Twas in a sulky, I believe)
When you and I were young!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Uramao”: Dr. C. E. Adams, M.L.
Government Astronomer, has just received
from Cartuja Observatory, in Granada,
Spain, a seismograph record showing the
agitation set up in that remote country by
the Murchison ’quake. It took 20 minutes
for the waves to shoot through the inter-
vening 8000 miles, which means a speed of
about 64 miles a second.
}si '
“Kyn”: It was enough to make anyone
rub his eyes, the spectacle of a man plough-
ing in Collins-street, right in front of the
sacrosanct Melbourne Club. It was a
single-furrow implement, drawn by three
fine draughts, placed tandem fashion. The
furrow cut would have raised the ire of
any judge at a ploughing match in my
home village. However, the explanation
proved as simple as the seeming lack of
skill was excusable. A contract is being
carried out for the conversion of the cable-
tram track into an electric one, and to get
a foundation for the rail-bed the yellow clay
a foot or two below the surface must be
stirred up and removed. There is no Gov-
ernment stroke about the job. Vic. Premier
McPherson, a strong advocate for the con-
tract system, looks on approvingly as he
strides along to lunch.
£ $ H* H*
“Hannan Street”: “Texas” Green, the
new' Minister for Defence, did something to
brighten up Hansard in his early days as a
Westralian M.L.A. In wliat was, almost his
maiden speech he was pulled up by a long-
suffering Speaker for “remarks that had no
possible bearing on the subject under dis-
cussion.” “Why, this is my peroration, sir,”
countered the new member reproachfully. On
another occasion Texas delighted the House
by recounting how, in an attempt to discover
if the Labor bureaus were being run pro-
perly, he had disguised himself as an out-of-
w T ork navvy and dropped in at the different
offices to set forth his requirements and
qualifications for a job. He didn’t get one,
but he secured enough material for an in-
dictment of departmental methods.
PAYING OFF AN OLD SCORE.
CHOLLIE: “Coming back we did fifty-five an hour most of the way.”
MOLLIE (who thought she had a chance once ): “Oooh! I’m sorry. What had you and
your wife been quarrelling about this time?”
“Clarence Cafeteria”: A new terror is
being prepared for the coming summer. Our
broadcasting companies have decided to add
the thermometer readings to other news
items. On hot days and nights an hourly
registration will be disseminated, and during
genuine heatwaves the service will be even
more frequent. Watching the mercury
seems to be a peculiarity of Australia. One
thing that made me doubt whether Leon
Gordon had any prolonged acquaintance with
the tropics was the habit of one of the
characters in “White Cargo” of periodically
commenting on the weather. This is simply
not done in the real tropics. The weather
is taken for granted—and hence becomes
much more endurable. There are some wise
men who think we should treat politics and
politicians in the same way.
“X.S.”: The most ponderous theft in local
annals occurred in Market-street, Melbourne,
recently. Five tons of bluestone flags, pur-
chased by a suburban householder for his
garden paths, were spirited away during the
night time. How the feat was performed
under the noses of watchmen and police
remains a mystery.
sj;
“H'amer” : Liverpool (N.S.W.) Old Men's
Home, where many a good citizen has finished
his days, has just dealt with an
unexpected problem in an absurd
fashion. Old Fred Prout died,
after five years’ residence in the
institution, bequeathing to it £6OO
in war bonds for the purpose of
building a new recreation hall to
replace the present decrepit struc-
ture. It was the first the authori-
ties had heard of the bonds, Prout
having made the usual declaration
on entering the home that he was
without property; because he
wasn’t, it has been solemnly de-
cided that £1 per week will have
to be charged against the estate
for the dead man’s keep. The
institution gets the money in any
case; the juggle merely means
that the testator's attempt to
benefit his old mates and future
inmates is cut down by £250.
“A.C.”: The queerest and most valuable
present I have ever known given to a hos-
pital nurse was an entire wardrobe. It had
belonged to a wealthy lady who had died
under the nurse’s care; the husband, recog-
nising that the deceased had received all
the skill and attention possible, took
this way of expressing his gratitude. The
outfit, and a capital fit it was, included a
fur coat and several Paris gowns.
* ❖ ❖ &
“W.G.”: Shorts may have been frowned
on by the military heads in certain sectors,
but for our first two summers in France
they were the accepted wear, and continued
so during 1918 in the 2nd Division at least,
where their many advantages were recog-
nised. Mustard-gas did not respect the
heaviest cloth breeches, and probably affected
the wearers of these garments more than
those addicted to shorts, for it required con-
siderable perspiration to start the gas on its
blistering action.
* * * *
“X2X”: Recent increases in the excise
duty on alcohol have made illicit distilling
more profitable than ever. Very little of
this “moonshine,” however, finds its way
into hotels; the examination of spirits by
the Government inspectors is much more
frequent than it used to be, and illicitly dis-
tilled “whisky,” even when blended with a
genuine brand, is so easy to detect that its
mere possession is full of danger. Hence
most of the illegal stuff is sold to druggists
as rectified spirits, large quantities of which
are used in pharmacy. Several samples I
have seen recently were of such excellent
quality as to suggest that somebody with an
expert knowledge of chemistry has replaced
the old-time ordinary illicit distiller. Penal-
ties in the event of detection are, of course,
very high, but then so are the profits to
be made from the stuff, which has a ready
sale at £2 a gallon,
* * * *
“Ngatik” : In 1915 I met in the Caroline
Islands an old Frenchman named Peter
Nedley, who claimed the credit for ridding
the world of the notorious Bully Hayes.
According to Peter, Hayes had contrived to
get possession of a cutter yacht, the Lotus,
in San Francisco, had stolen, stores from a
Californian lighthouse, and had sailed for
the Pacific Islands with the said Peter and
a native as crew. After leaving Jaluit
(Marshall Islands), Hayes worked himself
into one of his characteristic rages, and went
below to get a pistol to shoot Petei\ who
was steering. Peter grabbed an iron bar, and
got in first blow as Hayes came up the
companion-way. He then threw the skipper’s
corpse overboard, returned to Jaluit and
reported the matter. I took no great interest
in the story at the time, but happening to
visit Jaluit years later I made some inquiries,
and these largely confirmed the old French-
man’s story. I was also shown the few rot-
QUITE IN THE WAY OF IT.
BETH: “This new singer friend of yours —is he: unmarried?”
ETH: "Yes, darling. Twice.”
ting remains of the Lotus lying in the mud
of the lagoon. The Germans were in occupa-
tion of the Marshalls at the time of the
incident; since then they have been placed
under Japanese mandate. The Japs are
very suspicious of strangers who want to
delve into official records, so I never found
out anything more.
* * * *
“Morita” : I have seen bad burns inflicted
by mustard-gas—one instance was at Ypres,
where the victim, stripped to the waist,
was washing in a shell-hole when the gas-
shells landed near by. Nevertheless, after
condensation in shells, the stuff didn’t always
live up to its evil reputation; the lightest
breeze would often scatter it too much to
be effective. In Glencorse Wood Fritz was
putting periodical bursts of mustard shells
along the track where we were stretcher-
bearing. On one occasion, when it would
have meant lowering an unconscious patient
to don our own helmets, we took the risk
and rushed him through it, getting such a
taste of mustard in our innards that we
put in the next few hours awaiting our trip
to Blighty. But beyond slightly-inflamed
eyes all four of us drew blanks.
Hi * * *
“Borgioli”: My theory about bathroom
singing is that it is a rebellion of the inferi-
ority complex, caused by a sudden sense of
security from all comparison. In such
circumstances how lustily the anaemic little
man tries his baritone! My long experience
of boarding-houses enables me to say that it
is almost invariably a man who does the
singing.
* * * *
“Bingo-Bingo”: The war memorial to a
carrier-pigeon at Verdun (B. 9/10/’29)
recalls that the Yanks, like the French, took
particular care of their birds, many of which
crossed the Atlantic after the war to end
their days at Washington. One famous bird
was Cher Ami, which delivered a message,
one leg hanging by shreds. President Wil-
son and Spike carried over 50 messages
apiece without ever receiving a scratch; less
lucky was The Poilu, which on one aerial
excursion had its head and neck almost torn
to shreds—but got there. No wonder soldiers
felt grateful to such messengers, though the
birds, of course, would have done just as
bravely for the other side!
Hi Hi H= Hi
“Lampey”: Touching the roaring trade
once done in the military canteens of British
garrison towns (B. 9/10/’29). Guinness’s
stout was retailed at fourpence a quart when
I was in the Red Marines at Plymouth iu
the ’eighties. A sergeant and two old soldiers
ran the bar, and all profits were supposed
to go to the messing fund, but the sums
received were negligible. The barmen did
a thriving business in lending money at
threepence interest per shilling per week,
and considering the smallness of their wages
the amount of loan money available was
remarkable. But that was before the days
of cash registers.
Hi HI Hi Hi
“Mells” : While medical men are met with
more and more frequently in Parliaments
(B. 23/10/’29) —perhaps “Tiger” Clemen-
ceau is the one who has risen highest in
modern times —lawyers have long since lost
the numerical preponderance which they once
held in the House of Commons and else-
where. In the new Federal Government
there were only two “possibles” for the
Attorney-General’s job, and when State
Labor Governments first arrived some of
them hadn’t a single lawyer in the ranks;
the difficulty had to be got over by appoint-
ing a layman Minister for Justice. Among
other classes which are coming to the fore
are journalists and schoolmasters, or men who
started to earn their living in the teaching
profession. In several of the newer European
countries, such as Finland, there is no class
so well represented as ex-dominies. When
the new Czecho-Slovakian republic was set
up the Executive was largely professorial.
The President was a Prague professor, and
so, incidentally, wgs the republic’s first Aus-
tralasian Consul-General.
* * * *
“Murkah” : Radio has travelled far since
1917, when the first night tests were carried
out between Rabaul and Sydney stations.
Though every dot had 40 kilowatts of power
behind it the result was disappointing, and
in daylight the stations couldn’t reach half-
way. Nowadays, with one of the continuous-
wave systems, a solitary kilowatt of energy
will ensure communication in any circum-
stances. At the Sydney end the signals come
in at La Perouse. But the receiving tele-
graphist is in York-street, where he is
reached by probably the longest telephone
cords in existence —three miles. Instead of
the old whispers, the sigs. bang in so that
he is able to copy them on a typewriter. For
sending he manipulates a key alongside, but,
by a system of distant control, it is from
the 400 ft. “stick” near Beecroft that the
message flutters off on its 2000-mile journey.
The service provides for duplex-working, i.e.,
if business presses, both stations, using dif-
ferent frequencies, can send at once.
$ * * *
“Bloggs”: Cross-examining counsel often
get Rolands for their Olivers these knovr-
ledsreable days, but I have seldom witnessed
a more devastating presentation of the sort
than one which was made last week. Coun-
sel was suggesting that witness powdered
himself, an effeminate habit which revolts all
honest jurors. The witness admitted it with
suspicious alacrity. Counsel: “You powder
your body with talcum ?” Witness: “No. My
feet with boracic. I got the habit at the war
you shirked.”
* * # *
“Morkrum” : Telegraphists also play tricks
on the newcomer (B. 16/10/’29). A bustled
operator thinks he is taking press from a
distant station ; instead, the whole circuit is
in the office, and the victim is hurriedly
copying the remarks of an auto, transmitter
at the other end of the room. In Sydney a
recent arrival, with a well-nourished opinion
of his abilities, spent the busiest hour of his
life this way. The ends of a long piece of
“punched” tape were gummed together, so
that it would feed endlessly through the
electric transmitter. The operator was pro-
ficient enough, but the pace was a scorcher,
and it wasn’t till the tape was in the third
lap that he noticed the repetition. It took
him some time to express himself feelingly.
“Doric”: Touching these messages that
new hands are sent on, almost every boy
who steps into the office of a shipping com-
pany undergoes the experience of being de-
spatched to one of the heads to ask for the
map of the uncharted islands of the Pacific!
“Tee Essbie”: A youth of my acquaint-
ance, a prentice of some three weeks’ stand-
ing, told me that his foreman the other
day sent him to the foreman of another
department with instructions to ask for a
“long weight.” The boy accomplished his
mission, and was told to “just wait there,
will you?” After about 40 minutes he began
to suspect that something was amiss, so he
again approached the foreman No. 2. “What
do you want, my boy?” he was asked. “That
long weight,” reiterated the victim. “Don’t
you think you’ve had it?” he was told.
* * * *
“Wog” : The yarn of the Melbourne alder-
man who drank sewage under the impres-
sion that it was pure effluent (B. 16/10/’29)
recalls a story of Dorchester House in Lon-
don, which is now being pulled down. The
courtyard contained a well-spring, famous
throughout the neighborhood for the deli-
cious purity of its water; dwellers round-
about were in the habit of sending regularly
for supplies for their own special drinking,
the obliging occupier offering no objection.
There was a large mews close by, and when
the cholera epidemic of the 1840’s came
along the obliging person’s heart misgave
him, and he had the famous water analysed.
The verdict was that the sewage contamina-
tion in the water amounted to about 50 p.c.
while the amount of solid matter in suspen-
sion was proportionately horrible. The well
was promptly bricked over.
THE LIAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“One of the claimants to the throne of Afghanistan
was twice reported to have been assassinated in
Kabul, but he later issued a manifesto denying the
reports.”— Cable.
The lyin’ ’ound! ’E says ’e isn’t dead —
Put in-an ad. about it, spare me days!
But I ain’t one so easily misled;
You can’t believe one word of what ’e
says,
’E’s such a flamin’ liar —an’ that’s praise!
My bloomin’ oath, there’s some w'ho might
opine,
Because ’e wrote, the cow must be on
deck,
Or else ’e couldn’t write it. Not for mine!
If ’e ’ad said ’e’d broke ’is flamin’ neck,
Why then ’e might ’ave been alive, by
Heck!
But me—l’m w'ise to all ’is monkey tricks;
I know the way the blighter works 'is
’ead;
They didn’t do him in, ’e tells us. Nix
O’ that for me! I know him, Ato Z.
The fact ’e says ’e isn’t shows ’e’s dead.
N.S.W.
HAMER.


KS
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD.
Total Assets exceed . £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to L ohcy-holders. .
/o» In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
' * th*Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
... t t jj e eve nt of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost every contingency.
( } N 0 extra premium is charged for special benefits under life policies
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s (com. Saturday) .... “Show Boat”
Criterion “Lombardi, Ltd.”
Palace J.C.W. World’s Entertainers
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal (com. Saturday) “Hold Everything”
Kino’s “Whoopee”
Tivoli ... Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
Olympia Wirths’ Circus
The show in Melbourne last week which
held most interest for theatregoers was the
burnt-out interior of His Majesty’s, in
Exhibition-street. Oldtimers crept in on
tiptoe as if they were attending a funeral
and gazed at the ruin from the slippery
stage, reminiscing the while in melan-
choly whispers. A veteran tragedian, now
in honored if not affluent retirement, stood
on the boards and recalled the night when,
having had a win at the races, he arrived
at the theatre in a state of liquidation. He
was put to bed in his dressing-room, and
later woke up with the words of a familiar
cue ringing in his ears. Leaping from his
couch he dashed on to the stage and up to
the embarrassed heroine neck and neck with
the understudy who had been denuted to take
the part' that evening. “It was the most
successful entry of my career,” he remarked;
but added sadly, “I’m afraid you can’t use
my name in connection with that story.”
When The Bulletin surveyed the scene
the other morning water was cascading from
the ruined gods into the blackened stalls as
it a million gallery girls Avere paying a silent
tribute to the emotional qualities of Leon
Gordon’s acting. The two d.-c. seats which
three Bulletin critics have occupied in suc-
cession for nearly half a century were merely
parts of the black grin the dress-circle
directed At the footlights. The old theatre
has seen many vicissitudes. It began its
long career in the public service 44 years
ago as the Alexandria (about the same time
as the Princess) Avhen it was familiarly
known as the Alic. It was built by Joubert
on the model of the Ring Theatre in Vienna,
and had very little luck except in spasms.
In 1900 Williamson, being hard pressed by
the competition of Musgrove, took the risky
step of making an up-to-date theatre on a
site which in those days was a long way
from the centre of the city. He rechristened
it Her Majesty’s, and opened on Mafeking
MARIE BREMNER, who has been starring in the Melbourne
revival of “Rose Marie.”
night with the patriotic “Pinafore.” After
that Her Majesty’s ranked second only to
the Royal. In 1911 Melba objected to the
acoustics and the place was remodelled. It
was remodelled again in 1924, at the behest,
it is said, of the same lady, and was renamed
His Majesty’s. Under its various aliases it
has provided some of the best of Melbourne’s
entertainment. Dampier and Dan Barry
hounded down its echoes in old-time melo-
drama ; the Simonsen Opera Co. and a suc-
cession of Melba seasons may be entered
to its credit. Beauty abode in it on a
couple of occasions under the pseudonym of
Pavlova, and 18 years ago H. B. Irving per-
formed a feat in it that will probably never
be repeated—he played “Hamlet” for four
weeks. The only time that His Majesty's
has not been mentioned in The Bulletin
was between February 6 and March 6, 1919.
That was the occasion when the Government
imperilled its existence by closing all amuse-
ment houses because of the ’flu epidemic.
Perhaps when it went up in flames last
Thursday the venerable old theatre com-
mitted suicide, bursting into spontaneous
combustion through sheer envy and irrita-
tion after reading in an ungrateful evening
paper of the splendors of the latest moving
picture seraglio ; for time was when a first
night of grand opera at His Majesty’s gave
(“very true lover of the theatre a throb of
deep emotion.
Of late the enterprise of the movie mag-
nates has accustomed the public to survey-
ing its entertainment in surroundings of a
hitherto unheard-of magnificence. But, if
the management restores the old theatre on
a scale commensurate with its artistic
importance, it may regain its prestige with
large numbers of people.
*£•
The usual Wilkie standard of acting
makes Goldsmith’s old comedy “She Stoops
to Conquer” a welcome revival at Newtown
Majestic. The highest compliment that can
be paid to the play is conveyed by the size
of the audiences, which should be creating
some happiness in the box-office. The
old piece still has the power maintain
a continuous simmer of gurgle.
As Ivate, Miss Hunter-Watts is not
strikingly well cast, though perhaps the
arrangement is inevitable. It is the task
of leading ladies to take the leading parts
and make the best of them. Allan Wilkie
is an admirable liardcastle, and Alexander
Marsh is fitted more than nicely with Young
Marlow. The Lumpkin of Milton Sands
is also very good, and the Diggory of Arthur
Keane is a bit better. Lorna Forbes has
her moments as Mrs. H'ardcastle; but a
transfer of parts between her and Miss
Hunter-Watts might have mutual advan-
tages. The play is produced even better
than the “School for Scandal” was, and
that is saying a great deal. Rich costuming,
generally good settings and charming in-
cidental music play their parts in raising
the wish that the Wilkie season will be
as long as it is satisfying.
“A Touch of Silk,” Betty M. Davies's
finely human play
about the intro-
duction of a Dig-
ger’s French bride
to the Victorian
mallee in drought
time, just now hav-
ing a Sydney air-
ing at the Turret,
was given the
appreciation i t
merited by the
Melbourne, Show-
man some months
ago. To anyone
surfeited with
stagey artificiali-
ties, which are to-
day’s customary
theatrical fare, its
simplicity and
directness, its
comedy, its human
reality, its truth
and beauty and its
generally convinc-
ing dialogue come
almost as tragically
as refreshing and
late as the rain to
its pivot character,
the French girl.
It is produced at
the Turret under
serious difficulties.
The creation of
any atmosphere at
all is hard enough
on a stage so nar-
row; creating bush
atmosphere on it
\yith trams roaring
past is practically
impossible. It is
always an effort to
forget the real
setting for the
illusory, and the
Turreters’ idea of
a bush store for
the first act doesn’t
help. It is designed on the pattern of one of
those six-by-eiglit shoplets that are crammed
along any city shopping arcade to help many
a woman carry out her destined life work
of spending. The setting for the other two
acts—a kitchen on the drought-throttled
sheep holding—is much better.
Of the play itself, the third act is faulty.
In spite of the excellent acting of Freda
McGhee, the first half of it drags a trifle.
Freda is the French girl who, in her un-
accustomed situation, expresses nostalgia in
longing for a touch of silk, and whose
Digger-husband, troubled by war and worried
into an abnormal state by the drought,
strikes and unintentionally kills the store
traveller who, without the intention sus-
pected by the Digger, calls whenever he’s
round that way to show the girl his stock
merely out of friendship. It seems a defect
to this critic that, her friend killed and the
husband whom she whole-heartedly loves in
the law’s hands, the girl can turn and slate
the storekeeper, to whom the farm is mort-
gaged to the hilt, because, in view of the
scandal, lie tries
to interfere in the
lieart-affair of the
Digger’s sister and
his son. To tell
him, as she does,
that had he not
been so pressing
over his payments
the tragedy might
not have happened
is a feminine bit
of crooked logic,
but is quite accept-
able in the cir-
cumstances. But to
go for him like. a
shrew for “ruin-
ing the lives of
these two young
people,” or words
to that effect,
seems out of the
picture. However,
that is an inci-
dent, and so, per-
haps, is the fact
that “rain” is
sometimes given
the plural, if not
by the author, at
any rate by the
actors. Do bush
people speak of
“the rain s”—
“when the rains
come” ?
A curiosity—it
it, of course, not
a defect —in the
play’s structure is
the way woman
dominate s. Of
course, the French
girl does; it is her
play. But that is
not what is meant.
There are seven
men to five of the
other sex, only two
of whom matter,
and the feminine side must talk fully three-
quarters of the words used. Also, they have
all the best lines. It is a woman who says
“If a woman has to take off all her clothes
to make men look at her, she has not got
much for next time, eh?” It is a_ woman
who says the wind won’t stop till it mows
all the grass into the next paddocks. In
fact, the men’s parts are on the weak side,
and the Turreters drive home the impres-
sion by matching them with a palpably weak
team of male players. Arthur Reardon,
as the Digger, will pass muster, and Hal
Henshaw is pretty good as a butcher’s youth ;
but the less said about the rest the kinder.
The play’s success is Freda McGhee. Her
moments over the suitcase of silk in the
second act could not very well be more
exquisite. Sylvia Dance Thompson as the
Digger’s mother, and Kitty Horne, as another
matron, give pretty well all the convincing
touches that Miss McGhee leaves out. The
play is a godsend to all such earnest and
honest amateur players as the Turreters, but
that it is left to them is not much of a
compliment to the commercial stage in this
country.
The Talkie v. Legitimate Stage combat
in Sydney has resulted up-to-date in the
canned contestant winning practically every
round. The stage has given over the Royal
and St. James to the enemy, and the Tivoli
and Empire are shut. But, though their
heads may be bloodied, the barnstormers
are unbowed. At the moment they are
launching a strong counter-offensive at the
ancient Palace, hitherto the weakest spot in
the Firm’s trenches. The storm troops are
denominated “J. G. Williamson’s World
Entertainers,” and when this Showman in-
spected the line last week they appeared to
be firmly dug in.
An amazonian quartette armed with four
baby grands and megaphones gained consid-
erable ground in the second hop-over, and
John and George Hardgrove, clever eccentric
dancers, Walter Richardson, Fred Browne
and Kay Lavelle helped a bit more, after
which the whole company, unannounced, wan-
dered informally about the front.
An entertainment quite satisfying enough
to make sorrowing ex-Tivoli patrons heave
their crepe armbands into the old-clothes
basket.
*
Frank O’Brian’s show at Sydney Fullers’
maintains its pace. The gem of the new bill
is a sketch entitled “The Marriage Exchange”
the star attraction of which is a would-be
bride of such economical tendencies that she
always fries the bacon in Lux to make sure
it won’t shrink.
* * *
The nine Veterans of Variety who came
out of retirement to help the dying Tiv. in
its closing hours are now going well at
Sydney Opera House. They fill the first
half of a vaudeville bill, seem to enjoy the
communal choruses and each other as much
as the audience does, and make applause
that isn’t sympathetic pap.
BETTY M. DAVIES, author of the fine Australian play
“A Touch of Silk.”
Gregan McMahon began the renaissance
of the not-too-intellectual drama under the
Fuller patronage at Melbourne Palace with
“Bird in Hand,” Drinkwater’s somewhat
attenuated comedy. McMahon preferred
not to break with that theatre’s traditions
too roughly, apparently, and much of the
comedy was interpreted in the mood of farce,
so if there were any stray Frank Neil pat-
rons in the house they must have felt almost
at home in places. An entertaining show,
if not of much moment artistically.
•sr*
•The fire at Melbourne Majesty’s having de-
stroyed, among other things, the auxiliary
yacht Flitter, an undaunted management
set to work on Friday to rebuild the set at
the Royal. By Saturday night 60 stage l
shipbuilders had completed the job, and at
eight the curtain duly rose on Leon Gordon
and his revival of “Brewster’s Millions.” The
multitude’s enthusiasm was partly a tribute
to this feat, but it was also a recognition ot
Gordon’s recently-revealed talent as a com-
edian.
* * ¥
Sydney Prince Edward finished a great
run of “Innocents of Paris” to crowded
houses right up to the closing night last
week. It was a rattling good show, as -the
P.E.’s shows are more often than not, with
one fly, and a pretty loud one, in the
ointment. Some night the orchestra’s big
drummer will knock a hole in that drum
The change is to “The Dance of Life,” which
will be looked over in Shadow Shows.
* * *
“The Letter,” which was advertised for
several -weeks as the Prince Edward’s next
bill, can be .inspected at the State, to which
it is said to have been transferred owing
to the sudden end of its star, Jeanne Eagles.
The Prince Edward deals in long runs,
the State in short spasms. Perhaps the
death of a screen-player does affect the
sustained pull of her work; all the same,
this Showman would rather -watch a quarter
of “The Letter,” though he knew that all its
stars were not only dead but damned, than
have the -whole of “The Dance” served up
to him with gold mounts and cork tips.
¥ * *
The latest singing of “The Messiah” at
the Town Hall, Melbourne, brought out the
fact that in contralto Adele McKay Ballarat
lias turned out another beautiful song-
thrush. She warbled the pious numbers
with genuine feeling and in a voice of un-
usually rich suggestion.


IN THE WORLD!
ESTABLISHED 1742,
m
lnninmmui?
M
w.
m
%
m
93
9
On^
Real old Scotch whisky with
a rare distinctive flavour. In
growing demand throughout
the world. A man’s drink —
anytime, anywhere.
W^wmsKY
SE
tliiii
lt°TT
LPo
m
1


R°NE o
BUSINESS
EFFICIENCY
METHODS.
BItITISH MaNUFACTUI!!
STEEL CABINETS.
FILING SYSTEMS.
VISIBLE CARD
RECORDS.
RONEOTYPE
DUPLICATORS.
ADDRESSING
MACHINES.
ON EXHIBITION AT
21 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY.
64 MARKET STREET, MELBOURNE.
43 CREEK STREET, BRISBANE.
GAWLER PLACE, ADELAIDE.
107 MURRAY STREET, PERTH.
■ w «
■
MM
DO YOU WANT TO EARN MORE MONEY?
The Bulletin
Men of ability and average education who wish to get out of the rut and enter
a profession where there is a certainty of employment are advised to send for
our Prospectus. Here is one profession where the supply is not equal to the
demand. NOW is the time to begin.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
“LET’S CHOOSE EXECUTORS AND TALK OF WILLS”
HAVE YOU CHOSEN YOUR EXECUTOR?
If you have appointed a friend, have you considered that he may die soon after you, and your
estate may pass into the control of someone whom you would never have trusted? That he may
maladminister the funds ? Or your Estate may suffer losses through his neglect or inexperience t
THESE RISKS CAN BE OVERCOME BY APPOINTING AS YOUR EXECUTOR
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
OF 33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
which offers undoubted Security, combined with Expert Administration.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS NOW UNDER THE COMPANY’S CONTROL EXCEED £36,350,000.
Managing Director: R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
Manager: 11. V. DOUGLASS
Write for Booklet.
INSURE WITH THE
Mercantile Mutual
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Company—
Established 1878.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
Agenoiet in all Suburban, and Country Centret.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
South British Insurance Co.
Net To Re- Re- '
Aug., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
Wi9 IfiMSS 11} p.c.= 57,500 1 „ 780 975
Written off premises, £15,000 J ’
1920.. 237,618 14 p.c. = 70,000 167,618 948,593
Contingency reserve taken in . . 20,000 968,593
Unexplained additions to reserves, £85,531 1,054,124
Reserves capitalised, £250,000 . . 804,124
1921.. 225,115 13 p.c. = 79,107 145,948 950,072
Written off investments, £20,984 .. 929,088
1922.. 160,343 11 1-9 p.c.= 83,333 77,010 1,006,098
Premiums on shares .. .. 34,013 1,040,1 l L
1923.. 176,688 11} p.c.= 90,268 86,420 1,126,531
1924.. 185,644 12} ~,,98,866 86,779 1,213,310
1925.. 206,597 13.9 „ ~107,463 99,134 1,312,444
1926.. 232,030 14.4 „ ~111,761 120,269 1,432,713
1927.. 237,035 15 ~,,116,060 120,975 1,553,688
Unexplained additions to reserves, £57,910 1,611,598
Reserves capitalised, £257,910 . . 1,353,688
1928. . 214,333 12.1 p.c.=124,657 89,676 1,443,364
1929.. 233,831 12.9 „ ~133,253 100,578 1,543,942
This very successful fire and marine office,
with a world-wide connection, controlled
from Auckland, has been accepting risks for
the past 57 years, and the last 17 of them
have been by far the richest. No less than
£907.910 of the £1,031,640 of paid capital
has been provided out of accumulated pro-
fits since the close of accounts in 1912. The
last gift (£257,910, equal to ss. per share)
was handed out two years ago, making the
shares fully paid to £1 each.
The rate of dividend, which advanced by
annual steps from 11.1 p.c. in 1922 to 15
p.c. in 1927, was put back in the next year
to 12.1 p.c., but is on the up-grade again.
Still, the rate is not much to go by: the
bonus issues determine the actual rate. Last
year, notwithstanding the increase, not quite
57 p.c. of the profit was distributed, the
£100,578 left in the business piling reserves
to £512,302 in excess of capital. Without
putting a penny of new money into the busi-
ness, shareholders are now receiving over 21
times as much as they did 11 years ago.
Further, their position remains extra-
ordinarily snug, inasmuch as over the whole
of that period the income from investments
has every year exceeded the advancing divi-
dend charge, thus leaving the entire under-
writing profit available to fatten investments,
and, of course, the returns therefrom. Last
year interest and rents turned in £134,346,
or £8196 more than in the previous year.
Of late years the development of the
business has been particularly interesting.
By 1914 the co. had worked itself into a
strong position. Then the war, and the
success of the British Navy in dealing
with the submarine menace, enabled some fat
profits to be won on marine risks; and this
and other cos. blessed with managements
either very far-seeing or very fortunate were
able to entrench their capital behind a high
wall of protective reserves invested in sound
securities. Shareholders have since enjoyed
the sweets; and the pantry is still full.
This comparison of the co.’s underwriting
performances shows what has happened:—
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. penses. Rate. Rate.
1895. . £209,239 £136,160 £50,229 65.0 p.c. 24.0 p.c.
1905.. 297.822 180,009 82,366 60.4,, 27.7 „
1915.. 553,297 287.117 159,063 51.8 „ 28.7 „
1920.. 792,664 369,194 256,543 46.4.. 32.3 „
1922.. 893,340 538,289 279,638 60.3 ~ 31.3 ~
1923.. 866,387 491,940 294,178 56.8 „ 33.9 ~
1924.. 879,799 489,668 308,362 55.6 .. 35.0 ~
1925.. 905,917 496,709 313,382 54.8,, 34.6 „
1926.. 939.533 521,003 318,358 55.4 „ 33.9 ~
1927.- 1,046,753 617,562 311,806 59.0,, 29.8 „
1928.. 1,038,048 628,559 322,513 60.5,, 31.1 „
1929. . 1,051,842 641,483 318,072 61.0 „ 30.2 „
The actual business of underwriting has not
been very profitable for a good many years
past. After the war the bottom fell out of
shipping values, competition sharpened and
rates were cut. and, generally, marine busi-
ness has never been satisfactory since. Other
lines have been developed, but with no better
than fluctuating results. A few years back
the, employers’ liability section caused most
cos. anxiety. Then there, was a run of bad
years with American fire risks, and later the
rapid growth of accident business, due to
motor-car insurance, was not so satisfactory
as it might have been. Heavy fire losses in
Maoriland and Australia are now causing
some concern. But if the profits in propor-
tion to premium income* are small, turnover
has so rapidly increased that aggregate
figures are still handsome. Last year the
co. gathered an extra £13,794 of net pre-
miums ; losses took £12,924 of the increase,
hut as exes, were cut back £4441, the under-
writing profit bettered that of the previous
year by £5311 and reached £92,287. But it
was only 8.7 p.c. of the net premiums com-
pared with 11.2, 10.6 and 10.5 p.c. in 1927,
’26 and ’25. The loss rate (61 p.c.) was the
heaviest since the end of last century; and
it is doubtful to what extent, if any, relief
need be looked for in this matter of lire
losses in the near future.
Policy-holders are strongly protected. At
the close of last accounts they could see net
tangible assets amounting to £2,575,582, or
244.8 p.c. of the year’s net premiums, and
that is 94.8 p.c. more than is generally
reckoned just enough. Funds were held in
this form:—
p.c.
Premises £518,292 10.8
Mortgages .. .. . ._ .. 43,870 1.4
Deposits and cash balances..' .. 405,654 13.2
Stocks, debentures and shares . . 428,651 13.9
Municipal and Harbor Board debs... 402,799 13.1
Government securities . . . . 1,217,140 39.5
Book debts . . . . . . . . 66,161 2.1
And it can be taken for granted that those
items are well worth their book value. The
co. is getting out of the mortgage business
as fast as commitments will allow. Last
year’s surplus earnings were invested on
deposit and in shares and premises. Liabi-
lities at August 31 consisted of £195.747 set
aside for outstanding losses, and £233,945
coming to sundry creditors.
The market, which sees no real cloud in
the co.’s sky, heavily discounts the future by
offering 655. 6d. for the pound shares; they
could be had at 58s. following the gift issue
of two years ago. After allowing for the
final div. (Is. 4d.) the immediate return
at the current price is only 4 p.c. on 12.9
p.c. div. basis; if the div. advanced to 16
p.c. the return would still be only 5 p.c.
Marcus Clark and Co., Ltd.
t Dividends
Ist 2nd
Prefs. Prefs. Ord. Written Re-
Profits. (6 p.c.) (74 p.c.) (10 p.c.) Off. serves.
Aug., ££££££
1919.. 54,193 9,000 3,281 20,000 4,771 52,307
£60,000 (in shares) received for
goodwill of Bon Marche business.. 112,301
Less £3026 Bon Marche flotation
exes. .. .. .. .. .. 109,281
8J p.c. 1i p.c. 124 p.c.
1920.. 78,174 12,750 6,562 25,000 4,861 138,282
6 p.c. 10 p.c.
1921.. 58,820 9,000 11,431 20,000 15,071 141,600
1922.. 50,060 9,000 13,125 20,000 5,131 144,404
1923.. 55,879 9,000 13,125 20,000 5.485 152,673
1924.. 69,976 10,723 13,125 22,861 4,982 170,958
1925.. 70,496 12,000 13,125 25,000 4.980 186,549
1926. . 67,826 12,000 13,125 25.000 5,126 198,924
1927.. 77,998 15,647 13,125 32,195 5,668 210,287
1928.. 78,002 17,507 13,125 34,532 5,732 217,393
1929.. 76,468 18,000 18,507 38,312 8,135 210,907
Early in the last term the co. moved into
the new headquarters which it had built on
the other side of Central Square in Syd-
ney. The change-over was made with a
minimum of dislocation, and the increased
space that became available enabled the
management to make more sales, though not
as many more as had been counted upon—
probably in the main because of tighter
money and disturbed conditions in the coal
and construction industries. However, after
charging the whole of the expense in con-
nection with the removal against the year’s
earnings, and setting aside an unspecified
amount for bad and doubtful debts, the
spring in the gross profit from trading
(£111,719) was £33,425; but dividends and
rents (£31,559) were £2338 lighter, and
management charges (£29.817) were up
£7402. Also, since the best part of £316,000
was added to the debt shortly before the
close of account in 1928, last year’s interest
bill (£36,975) was £25,201 heavier. Thus,
after allowing for minor adjustments, last
year’s profit was £1534 short of the pre-
vious year’s.
After visibly striking off an extra £2403
for depreciation, shown as written off in the
table, and attending to the requirements of
both lots of prefs. (they called for an.
additional £5875), the balance of the year’s
net earnings dropped back to 8.3 p.c. on
average ord. capital compared with 12, 13.5,
15, 16.1 and 17.9 p.c. for the five preceding
years. Nevertheless, the board did not hesi-
tate to hand the usual 10 p.c. to the ords.,
though it. involved an assault upon reserves
for £6486. There is a suggestion there that,
freed of many of the handicaps of the past
year, those in control are satisfied that the
latest figures can be easily bettered. When
the board is able to find a buyer for the
co.’s old premises, things should look up
considerably; meanwhile the old building is
contributing to overhead, but bringing in no
return.
Early in the last term another 100.000
second prefs. and 50,000 ords. were put out,
making paid capital £973,899 in 300,000
first 6 p.c. and 274,226 second 7i p.c. prefs.
and 400,000 ords. at Aug. 3—there was still
£llOl to come in. Over the past five years
shareholders .have put up £348.899, and the
board went outside for another £378,069
net. For the most part the new money
went into premises, which have not yet had
much of a chance to show what they can do,
and into book debts and shares in other cos.
The co. owns most of the 300,000 £1 ords.
in Marcus Clark (Vic.), Ltd., which trans-
formed itself from a motor agency to a
holding co. when it took over the drapery
and mail-order business of Craig William-
son Pty., in Melbourne, about three years
ago. Later it bought control of Miller
Anderson, Ltd., an old-established Adelaide
drapery business. The Vic. co. has not yet
declared a dividend on r ( e ords. for the 12
months to Aug. 31; it paid 4 p.c. and 8 p.c.
respectively in the two preceding years. The
Craig Williamson co.’s earnings have been
affected by adverse trading conditions; still
its wide connections and the keenness of the
control ought to ensure a prompt recovery
in earnings when things get back to norma!.
This comparison of balance-sheet figures
shows how briskly the Sydney co.’s business
has stepped along over the past decade :
1920. 1924. 1928. 1929.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital .. 437,500 625,000 825,000 973,899
Mortgages . . 70,000 51,500 312,500 300,000
Other debts .. 213,710 210,553 370,192 340,122
Stock .. .. 228,475 228,385 252,801 247,214
Book debts . . 304,735 445,621 529,940 579,119
Freeholds .. . . 123,189 170,069 554,093 579,800
Leaseholds . . 68,738 57,377 57,397 58,2‘32.
Plant, etc. . . 22,860 19,948 53,428 96,096
Shares in other cos. 120,493 149,310 296,008 291,898
Cash, etc. . . 19,533 11,994 14,480 11,821
The new capital got in during the year
enabled the management to clip £42,570 off
the debt, spend £09,210 more than was
written off on properties and plant and carry
an extra £49,179 of book debts. The latter,
which show consistent expansion, are very
substantial and reflect the co.’s extensive
t.-p. connections. Much obviously depends
upon whether the allowance for contingen-
cies proves to be adequate. All that can
be said definitely in that respect is that the
risks do not appear to have been under-
estimated in the past. The financial position
strengthened. The more or less liquid sur-
plus (£198,032, including stocks) was
£83,503 better than at the previous balance.
Since the close of accounts trade has taken
on a better tone, due partly to good, though
still not general, rains and a firmer wool
market, and the co.’s turnover remains on
the up-grade. But competition continues
very keen, and profit margins are inclined
to become a bit finer. The sharemarket,
which paid 275. Gd. for the ords. a year ago.
now prices them at 255. Gd. The return at
that figure is 7.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
Subject to intangibles in the subsidiaries,
the net asset backing amounts to 30s. Gd.
per share. For the prefs. the net asset
cover is £3 18s. lid. for the firsts and
£3 4s. Gd. for the seconds. They rank in
the order, stated, have priority as to capital
and carry a cumulative 6 p.c. and p.c.
respectively. The firsts are priced at 19s.
3d. and the seconds at 225.; at which figures
the return is 6.2 p.c. and 6.8 p.c. respec-
tively.
Nominal capital is to be increased from
£1,000,000 to £2,000,000. Of the new shares
300.000 are to be 71 p.c. cum. prefs. and
200,000 ords.; these are to be issued at the
discretion of the board.
Allied Motor Interests, Ltd.
. To Re- Re-
July, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£, £ £ £
1924.. 77,431 17£ p.c. = 74,925 2,506 2,506
1925.. 129,056 20 „ ~ 85,629 43,427 45,933
1926.. 94,777 174 „ ~ 74,925 19,852 65,785
Written off shares in subsidiary, £68,766 )
1927.. 34,688 Nil 34,688 )
1928.. 1,098 Nil 1,098 32,805
1929.. 2,142 Nil 2,142 34,947
Shareholders in this Melbourne motor invest-
ment concern have lost half their capital,
and the other half does not look too secure.
The co.’s funds arc invested, in half a dozen
subsidiaries, all of them in one branch or
another of the widespread business. The
parent’s p. and 1. figures show only the
profits that the pups have passed on; they
do not exhibit the losses they have
made. So not much notice need be taken
of the last few lines in the table. During
the past three years the pups have become
a sick lot —very much sicker, in fact, than
the parent co. has eared to admit.
At July 31 its own paid capital figured
at £428,114, which with £61,851 of
deposits, etc., and reserves totalling £35,947,
were represented in the books by shares
(£227,530) and advances (£297,551) and a
small cash balance (£S6I). There were
also contingent liabilities of an unspecified
amount on account of guarantees in respect
of the hire-purchase contracts and overdrafts
of subsidiaries.
Although the business has been slipping
badly a curtain has hitherto remained drawn
over these subsidiaries’ figures; and except
from a hint dropped by the auditor in one
report, shareholders have probably not
known how dangerous the drift had become.
Now, however, the board has lifted the veil
from the combined balance-sheet figures of
the parent and all its pups as at April 30
last. These disclose accumulated losses of
no less than £196,680, which with goodwill
(£39,507) have heaped the intangibles to
£236,187. The tangible assets had an
aggregate book value of £715.515; they com-
prised fixed assets, £348.495 (freeholds,
£148,476 ; leaseholds, etc.. £34,732 ; plant, etc.,
£129,287), and more or less liquids totalling
£367,020 (stocks, £227.136; book debts,
etc., £131,584; cash, £3300; shares, £5000).
On the other side of the sheet there was
the large amount of £483,829 coming to
creditors, including the bank (£303,198).
Thus there were net tangible assets with
a book value of only £231,656 to represent
£426,344 of paid capital—that is excluding
£lBOO of scrip held by one of the pups. So
to bring the accounts more into line with
what the position really is, £214,072, or
10s. of each 20s. share, is to be struck oft
the parent co.’s paid capital.
That, of course, is mainly a paper adjust-
ment involving book values ; it will have no
effect whatever upon either the heavy debt
or the earning power of the assets. Cre-
ditors obviously control the position; at
April 30 they had £2 17s. Bd. at risk in
the business for every £1 of net tangibles
belonging to shareholders. Further, the
amount coming to creditors was £116,800 in
excess of the more or less liquids. Unless
the board can anchor some of the debt,
temporarily, at any rate, a quick and sub-
stantial recovery of profits will be neces-
sary if shareholders are to escape further loss.
The published accounts do not say what
last year’s net trading result was for all
sections of the business combined. But at
the annual meeting last week the chairman
admitted to losses totalling £36.800 in the
motor-car selling section ; and nearly £lO,OOO
was lost on the sale of commercial vehicles.
Forced selling and repossessions are said to
have badly affected the year’s trading results.
No mention was made of the net figures
in the motor-body building section. This
enterprise, in which over £300,000 was in-
vested a year ago, was not launched until
depression had struck the motor trade; it
took much longer than was expected to gel
to the production stage. Partly on this
account the services of discount bouses had
to be used to finance term-sales a year or
so ago; and the co. thus lost the revenue
from what is now probably the most pro-
fitable section of the trade. When oppor-
tunity offers the co. intends to get rid of
its interest in the body works, or as much of
it as it can.
EL'ow fhe current year's trading is likely
to pan out it is impossible to say. The
management claims to have effected savings
in manufacturing, buying and selling. The
stock of second-hand cars is low, obsolete
lines have been almost cleared and turnover
is improving. But competition is very keen,
and likely to remain so, and profit margins
on most of the co.’s lines are narrow. The
sharemarket, which offered 2s. 6d. for the
scrip prior to the publication of the sheet,
now bids 3s. For the pound shares 6s. 3d.
was paid a year ago, and 30s. three years
back. The board’s effort to raise £70,000
of 9 p.c. pref. capital during the year failed.
Southern Cross Assurance.
This is the young life office promoted by
Thomas Oonfoy in 1921. lie got £12,500
in 8 p.c. cum. prefs. and £lOOO cash, and
became managing director:—
Ordinary Branch.
Excess
Outgoings. Deficit.
Promoter’s consideration ..£13,500 £13,510
Other establishment charges .. 38,189 51,689
New share premiums, £31,250.. .. 20,439
Aug., Income. Claims. Expenses.
1922*. . £56,726 £1,357 £ 87,749 32,380 52.819
Additional establishment charges 10,000 62,819
1923 .. 87,076 5,437 92,173 10,534 73,353
S’African business purchased, £3O 00 .. 76,353
Surplus
June, Income.
1924 f. . 96,060 4,399 91,302 359 75,991
1925 . . 139,778 5,848 110,773 20,157 55,837
1926 . . 180,038 18,781 122,688 38,569 17,268
Funds.
1927 . . 167,379 18,671 123,260 25,448 8,180
1928 . . 183,736 19,475 128,187 36,074 44,254
1929 .. 208,341 33,716 131,785 42,840 87,094
*l9 months. tlO months.
From the start the policy has been a bold
one. Firstly, a large capital, enough to see
the co. through several years of vigorous and
very expensive campaigning, was gathered—
some of it at a premium, too ! At the same
time offices were sot up in all the Australian
States and Maoriland, and presently £300'.•
was paid for the A.P.A.’s S. African busi-
ness. As the money came in it was made
to fly; £202,616 of the £300.000 of paid
capital at June 30 bad been swallowed up
in establishment charges, etc.
However, income overtook outgo five years
back, and the surpluses have since continued
to widen. Bast year’s income was figur 'd to
be £24,605 better than the previous year's.
But only £11,079 of the increase came from
premiums (£179.339) and £1313 from con-
sideration for annuities (£1453) ; the other
£12,213 was on account of “interest, rents
and other receipts, £27,549.’’ What suddenly
bumped up the return from other sources
the board docs not say. On the figures
presented, exes, took 63.2 p.c. of the year’s
total income as against 69.7 p.c. and 73. C
p.c. in the two preceding years.
But not much importance should be
attached to the improvement visible in tb 1
first table, which needs to be considered ..i
relation to these figures:—
1925. 1928. 1929.
Proposals accepted 5,08 4 5,87 8 6,540
Total of policies. . £1,516,768 £1,766,058 £1,805,703
First premiums . . 49,683 58,294 55,055
Renewal premiums 67,014 110,106 124,284
Interest, rent, etc. 23,082 15,336 29,002
Total income .. 139,778 183,736 208,341
There has been annual improvement in the
amount of business written, a total of


The Annual Meeting of
The Southern Cross Assurance Co. Ltd.
Was Held on Saturday at
The Southern Cross Buildings, 315-17 Collins Street, Melbourne
Moving the adoption of the annual report and balance-sheet, the chairman and governing director (Mr. Thomas J. Confoy) said
THE SHAREHOLDERS OF THE SOUTHERN CROSS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
Ladies and Gentlemen, —
L have the greatest pleasure in welcoming you at the Annual Meet-
ing of the Company to present to yon the Eighth Annual Report and
Balance-sheet of your Company for the year ended June 30, 1929.
For some years past Australia has been going through a difficult
financial period, and there has been no relief during the twelve months
covered by this report. Although conditions were so unfavorable,
progress all round has again been shown.
The value of your overseas Branches has been proved time and
again, and during the past twelve months both New Zealand and South
Africa exceeded all previous records. The Directors, Managers and
indoor and outdoor staffs of both these big Branches deserve special
commendation —they have earned it.
On this occasion you will find that there has been a good steady
increase all round, and your attention is drawn to the folloAving com-
parison of the first, fourth and eighth years’ figures: —
Ist Year 4th Year Bth Year
Ordinary Department—
New Business . . £1,105,350 £1,516,768 £1,805,702
Ordinary Department—
Renewals 12,247 67,013 124,284
Ordinary Department—
Funds Nil 20,515 282,624
Government and other Securities lodged as deposits under
the various Life Assurance Acts now amount to £135,680, and we
are still depositing amounts with some of the Governments. It is to
be hoped that the projected legislation for Life Assurance Companies
by the Federal Government will not be long delayed. The recent
elections, of course, held this matter up, hut it is to be hoped that
immediate attention will be given to this necessary item. It will cer-
tainly benefit our own Company, as we would not require to have such
a large sum lodged with the Governments, and quite £40,000 or £50,000
of securities would be released, enabling more profitable first-class invest-
ments to be made.
The Actuary, Mr. R. W. Lavery, A.1.A., in his report states: “Death
Claims for the period under review were within the amount actuarially
expected. The business in force at the close of the financial period is
of a satisfactory nature, the proportion of Whole of Life and Endow-
ment Assurances being as high as formerly. Policy liabilities are well
secured.”
It is very pleasing to note that our claims ratio is still very satis-
factory, and, although the amount actually paid this year showed a
substantial increase on the previous year’s figures, it must be remem-
bered that on that occasion only 42 per cent, of the expectation had
to be met. Since the inception of the Company the claims experience
has been an excellent one, and proves that great attention is given to
the underwriting of all risks submitted.
ACCIDENT DEPARTMENT.
For the past two years this Department has been absolutely
re-organised, resulting in all unprofitable lines being cut out, com-
missions for business obtained reduced and managerial expenses cut
down to a minimum, with a result that where funds of only £7505
were required as a reserve against the unexpired portion of risks of
the business in force, the Company actually had £9458 funds. This
satisfactory position having been attained, it was decided to carry out
the decision of one of the past Round Table Conferences to dispose of
the Accident Department to The Southern Star Fire Accident and
General Insurance Company, Ltd., and this was duly carried into effect,
the Agreement for which is tabled herewith for your inspection.
Suitable arrangements have been made so that our Company will
still collect all premiums falling due for renewal, and transact new
business as .heretofore, settle claims as they occur, and give the full
protection of the “Southern Cross” assets to all Accident Policy-holders,
so that we are still really interested in this particular Department. The
transfer and re-insurance of the business will be a profitable investment
year by year for our Company, and at the same time we are handing
over to the “Southern Star” a fine business properly conducted, and
which will give them a nucleus of an income to build themselves into
a substantial concern.
At the conclusion of this Meeting, an Extraordinary General Meet-
ing will be held to consider resolutions for the consent and approval to
the disposal of this Department, and at the same time to consent and
approve of the acquisition of the life business of The New Era
Insurance Company of Australasia, Ltd., upon the terms of the
Agreement, bearing date June 27, 1929, and which is also tabled at
this Meeting.
The purchase of this life business, which has already been approved
by The New Era Insurance Company’s Shareholders, and now merely
awaits the consent of various Courts, will give to your Company
additional premium income, which, although small, will assist to more
quickly build up your Company’s Renewals at a cost much cheaper than
for which our Agents could write the business.
Both Agreements mentioned herein were presented and discussed
by the Annual Round Table Conference of Directors of the Company
held on the 15th and 16th inst., and approval given and satisfaction
expressed at the results achieved thereby.
On this occasion, Dr. Wm. Smith, M.C., from Johannesburg, South
Africa, and Mr. G. T. Booth, of the Christchurch Board of Directors,
New Zealand, attended for the first time, and their views regarding
your overseas Branches were listened to eagerly and with great interest
by all those who attended.
There is no doubt that Conferences such as these prove of great
value, as we are enabled to more fully go into the figures of the Com-
pany, having more time at our disposal than at the Annual Meeting.
The Directors who attended are successful business men, and when
they are satisfied, it is felt that, seeing they represent the Shareholders
in their particular Branches, all should be satisfied. On their return
they are in a position to report to their Local Boards, and then can
answer all enquiries and give any information required to any Share-
holder who likes to apply. This representation of the whole of the
organisation has had a great influence on the building up of your
Company, and really has proved of inestimable value.
Your Company is, each year, beating the previous year’s
figures, more new business is being written, greater renewals
obtained, a satisfactory claims ratio maintained, and the cost
gradually decreasing. However, the question of cost is again being
considered by your Head Office Directors with a view to considerably
reducing same, without impairing the organisation, which is proving
its worth so ably. You can confidently expect a bigger percentage of
reduction at the conclusion of the ninth financial year.
I again appeal to all Shareholders to help their own Company by
placing all the business they possibly can with their own Institution,
and influencing their friends to do likewise.
I take this opportunity of sincerely congratulating all the Directors,
both Head Office and those belonging to Local- Directorates, also the
Managerial, Agency and Clerical Staffs for the assistance rendered in
achieving such fine results during the past twelve months.
The Southern Cross Assurance Co. Ltd.,
The Southern Cross Buildings,
Head Office: 315-17 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Telephone: 6836, 6837, 6838. Box 380 F, G.P.O. Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Crossfoy.”


The Crash in
I New York
Tens of thousands of Ameri-
cans have just been ruined
through not knowing what
was ahead.
Tens of thousands of Aus-
tralians are risking heavy loss
in exactly the same way.
The “Wild Cat” Monthly
doesn’t know everything. But
it puts before you a tremendous
quantity of data from which
you can draw your own con-
clusions.
In these uncertain days
every investor —even though
it be only in a life insurance
policy—owes it to himself and
his family to keep himself
informed.
Let the Monthly help you.'
NOVEMBER NUMBER
READY THIS WEEK
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PElt ANNUM,
22/6. From Newsagents, or Bulletin
Offices, .Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
Patents. —Have you an idea ■ worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Colt.ison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * ± «
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * 4 4
Proposed mining parties to Papua should make
arrangements for native labor before proceeding to
Port Moresby. Time saved by wiring the number
of boys required. Mining boys cost £4/10/- each
for any time up to 18 months, delivei'ed at Port
Moresby, and arrangements have to be made with
Bank at Port Moresby guaranteeing total wages.
Recruiting fees have to be guaranteed also. Recruit-
ing fees, 15/- per month for mining boys. Signing-
on fee, 6/- per boy, and equipment to be supplied
each native to the value of 6/- per boy. This
extra 12/- has to be paid by the employer. Suit-
able stores supplied. A Radio sent to Steamships
Trading Company, Limited, Port Moresby, Papua
(Contractors for mail services to the Commonwealth
and Papuan Governments), and all arrangements will
be made for your labor to be in readiness for you on
arrival. Cable address: “Steamships,” Port Moresby.
The local agents, Nelson and Robertson, 12 Spring
Street, Sydney, will be pleased to give all particulars.
An investigation into the efficiency and cost of
the various forms of piping clearly shows the many
outstanding advantages possessed by Pioneer Wood
Pipe. Light, strong, durable, easily and cheaply laid,
freighted and transported, costing less in initial cost
and incurring practically no maintenance cost,
unaffected by extremes of heat and cold, or electro-
lysis, and positively non-corrosive. Those interested
are invited to send for a free copy of illustrated
data book to The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. (near Figtree
Bridge) ; and at Footseray, Victoria. —Advt
* * :!-- 4
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicate of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree.— Advt.
4
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament.
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney. —Advt.
The “Explosives” House
Explosives and Accessories of All Kinds
Supplied at Lowest Prices.
Manufacturers of
RENDROCK,
The Safest, Cheapest and Most Effective High Explosive Known.
Can be forwarded by Rail or Steamer at ordinary rates of freight.
Blasting Machines, Steel Rock Drifts.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, 10-12ParramattaRoad,Camperdown, Sydney
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting- Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety F-uso
Detonators
Cartridges
Hadfields
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS —DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadlields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and ! Alexandria, Sidney, N.S.W.
Foundries 1 Bassendean. Perth, W.A.
Branch ( 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. V'o.
Office J T. & G. Building, Brisbane, Q
£12,161,647 having been put on the books
in 84 years. The average amount per policy
last year was £276 compared with £3OO
and £291 in the two preceding terms, while
the average premium per cent, for the 12
months to June 30 (£3 Is. Id.) dropped
back 4s. lid., due to more non-profit sharing
and whole-of-life business having been
written. Also, the actuary says the busi-
ness in force at the close of accounts was
of a satisfactory nature. All this is quite
pleasing so far as it goes. But how much
of the total business written remained in
force at June 30? That most important
thing is not disclosed. Such figures as are
available suggest that the position in respect
of lapses is still unfavorable. The total net
premium income for the 12 months to the
close of accounts in 1928 was £168,400,
whereas last year’s renewals were only
£124,284. Of course, premiums lost through
claims account for parts of the difference,
but oniy a small part. Another factor which
helps to hasten or retard the day when
bonuses can be earned for policy-holders, and
which is partly affected by the lapse rate, is
the cost of putting new business on the
books. Assuming that getting new business
is 10 times more expensive than gathering
renewals, then last year’s first premiums ran
into 195 p.c. compared' with 184 p.c. in each
of the two preceding terms. Thus three
years’ premiums will have to be paid on last
year’s new policies before anything worth
mentioning can be put by against the in-
evitable day when policies become claims.
Obviously, any lapses meantime are a dead
loss to the co.
The office assumes that the life fund will
earn 4 p.c.; last year’s return from interest
and rents was obscured by a big wad of
“other income,” referred to above; in the
previous year the return was 6.9 p.c. on
the average life funds.
The protection for policy-holders is in this
form :
1926. 1928. 1929.
Freeholds .. .. £161,370 £181,995 £185,844
Equipment .. .. 17,028 20,101 23,994
Govt, securities .. 109,530 126,030 126,680
Mortgages, etc. .. ' 14,400 17,831 38,420
Loans on policies .. 764 4,167 6,528
Shares other cos. .. 10,100 10,450 10,625
Book debts .. .. 64,686 81,637 85,922
Cash 1,224 3,761- 3,556
Total tangible assets .. £379,102 £445,972 £481,569
Liabilities (other than
under policies) . . 91,673 97,645 90,196
Net tangible assets .. £287,429 £348,327 £391,373
Paid capital .. .. 296,192 300,000 300,000
The “Wild Cat” will not swear that every
item in that table is worth its book value.
How much of the £26,884 of deferred pre-
miums and £14,990 of outstanding accounts
—-both are included with book debts—the
management will be able to collect remains
to be seen. However, the actuary gives his
assurance that policy-holders are well pro-
tected. Assuming that the life fund
(£282,624, up £42,840 during the year)
exactly covered liabilities under policies at
June 30, then shareholders could see 7s. 3d.
of every £1 of their capital iutact in the
books. The spring in mortgages, etc., is on
account of £18,015 owing by other cos., and
secured by debentures and agreements.
Since the close of accounts the business of
the New Era Co. —the story of its failure
was told in these columns last week—has
been taken over. The price was £15,070 for
goodwill. Tangible assets equal in amount
to the liabilities under the transferred policies
come with them. The premium income in-
volved is £20,099 p.a. This, the chairman
says, has been got much cheaper than the
co. could write the business. But unless
the purchase price was arrived at on an
actuarial basis the deal might prove to be
more of a hindrance than a help. This is
a point which the board might keep in mind
in view of the possibility of its conversations
with the Commonwealth Life (Amal-
gamated) coming to anything.
The co.’s prospects still largely depend
upon the extent to which the management
can cut costs, and thus permit of bonuses
for policy-holders being earned. Meanwhile,
there are the intangibles calling for reduc-
tion, and divs. are accruing on £62,500 of
S p.c. pref. capital. So quite a lot of money
will have to be accumulated before the ords.
(£237,500) can expect to get into the picture.
In the Accident department the year’s
net premiums (£18,?63) fell away £3092,
claims (£10,376) were £155 heavier and
exes. (£9l00) were cut back only £2620;
hence the underwriting result was a loss of
£713. Henceforth all Accident business is
to be re-insured with, the subsidiary, the
Southern Star Fire, Accident and General Co.
North Queensland Prospecting.
The Queensland Government has, by Act
of Parliament, confirmed the grant of a
mineral concession to Mining Trust, Ltd., of
about 100,000 acres, covering the Lawn
Hill silver-lead mineral field. This area lies
ab’out 200 miles north of Mount Isa, in which
Mining Trust is heavily interested, and
approximately 100 miles south of the Gulf
of Carpentaria.
Mining Trust, Ltd., first became interested
in this district through its recent acquisi-
tion of long-term options to purchase a
number of groups of privately-owned leases.
Among these are the Silver King, Silver
Queen, Watson, Tunnel Hill, Banner South,
Britannia, Anglo-American, Greater Britain,
Magazine Hill, Lilydale and others, which
are surrounded by the ground now covered
by the concession. The existence of lead
and zinc on these leases has been known
for over 30 years, and the Government has
at different times published reports on the
district. At intervals, when prices of lead
and zinc were high, gougers mined high-grade
galena and zinc blende, and freighted the
ore 100 miles by waggon to Burketown.
Thence it was shipped long distances by
water to the smelters. The development of
the district awaited the advent of a co. with
sufficient capital and courage to invest the
large sums necessary to prospect so exten-
sive an area with the hope of developing
a commercial enterprise.
During their recent visit to North Queens-
land, Leslie Urquliart (chairman of Mining
Trust, Ltd.) and Deane P. Mitchell (direc-
tor) spent some time at Lawn Hill. Their
survey of conditions not only revealed the
possibilities of the district, but also clearly
indicated that operations, to be successful,
would have to be on a large scale, and that
prospecting should be carried on over an
extensive area owing to the scattered nature
of the deposits. This would _ require a geo-
logical study of the entire district followed
by diamond drilling on the most likely pro-
perties. Mining Trust is already making
preparations to send geologists to Lawn
Hill to study the various ore occurrences.
It is hoped that this intensive prospecting-
programme will develop a number of ore
bodies containing a total aggregate tonnage
large enough to justify a railway to the
smelter now being erected at Mount Isa.
In that event another new mining district,
giving employment to hundreds of men,
would be developed in North Queensland.
:;s * * *
Things don’t look promising industrially
at Broken Hill. The workmen there, some
of the best in Australia, are a long-suffering-
lot ; but even the toughest old camel can be
loaded with one straw too many. For
nearly eight months they have all been pay-
ing half a crown in the £ of their wages.
At least, they have been supposed to pay it;
but it is suspected that a great many of
those on contract have paid the p.c.
on a good deal less than their real earnings,
and the members of the committee of man-
agement have never produced affidavits,
backed by evidence, to show that they have
all paid the full 12J p.c., though it would
greatly encourage the rank and file if they
did. However, over £5OOO a fortnight has
been paid; and after more than seven
months of it a whole lot of them have got
tired.
One of the institutions peculiar to Broken
Hill is called “badge show.” Once a quarter
every man and boy employed on or about
the mines must go to his union and get a
badge which certifies that he has. paid all
dues and levies. On a given day these sym-
bols have to be produced on the mine to
the steward, and hitherto nobody who hasn’t
produced his badge has been permitted to
do a tap. On one or two occasions men.
have had disputes with their unions and
have wanted to defy them ; but the owners,
through their foremen, have led the recal-
citrants aside and whispered to them that
they’d better pay up—or allow somebody else
to pay up. Now, however, rightly or
wrongly, the men at the Central (Sulphide
Corp.) believe that nobody will whisper
anything if they do rebel; and there is said
to be a good crowd ready to chance it.
If these men are taken into the mine
there will certainly be trouble, which is
liable to spread along the line. The owners’
case is understood to be that sooner or
later they will have to do the paying; and
that seems highly probable, especially where
contract work is concerned.
iji ❖ % %
The steady maintenance of copper prices
has led to the re-probing of many old fields.
One is the Burrdwa CN.S.W.) area, where
the old Frogmore and Great South once
flourished. A Sydney syndicate, the Utopia
Group No. 1, is taking over a show on
which a good deal of work was done in
the past. The shaft and workings are to
be reconditioned, and it is claimed that samp-
ling has shown considerable ore assaying up
to 14 p.c. Buyers prepared to take up to
200 tons weekly have undertaken to pay £3
per ton for 10 p.c. ore, with 12s. 6d. for
every additional 1 p.c. But nob'ody ought
to bank on profits till an engineer measures
up ore opened on three sides.
* ❖ Jjc sjs'
The price of zinc is causing the operators
of the zinc cartel some thought. They hoped,
by reducing the output of the larger plants,
to keep the price at about £27 per ton, and
they are disappointed with £25. It is thought
that the lower price may bring more pro-
ducers in. However, reports are that a fur-
ther cut in production will be made during
October, unless the price increases. There
has been little decrease in production in
U.S.A. so far.
“T. 0.”: Sydney tin-scrip punters, who i
have been wondering just where they were
of late, bucked up a bit at the week-end,
when the price of the metal jumped £7 10s.
for spot, bringing the quote to £lB9 12s. 6d.,
and forward buyers contracted at £193
17s. 6d. three months. This is about the
time of year when the American buyers begin
to come into the market for next year’s
supplies. In view of their requirements for
the motor-car and canning industries, coupled
wtih the fact that visible supplies are by no
means over-abundant, shareholders in Mala-
yan tin-dredging shows may sleep better o’
nights. Present indications are that the
metal will command stable quotes in the
immediate future, with an up-grade tendency.
“Waw”: Ellyou Goldfield Development
Corp. has completed the survey of a route
for the railway from Salamoa to the moun-
tain field in New Guinea. This is an essen-
tial part of the co.’s scheme of operations.
The track, which will follow the valley of
the Markham for some distance, will be
about 125 miles over all, and its construc-
tion is to be commenced at once; the survey
party and engineers, who have been in Syd-
ney for some weeks, are returning to New
Guinea for the purpose. The first section
of the line presents no great difficulties;
the troubles will begin with the climb.
* * * *
“Old Fossicker”: Oakey Creek Tin Co.,
just formed in Cairns, owns 10 leases near
Mount Garnet aggregating 170 acres, all of
which, except one, were worked more or less
20 to 30 years ago. The high-grade ore,
then worked to a shallow depth, was picked,
bagged and sent to Irvinebauk and Cool-
garra; nothing under about 7 p.c. black tin
paid. On the co.’s leases between 20,000
and 30,000 tons of ore is developed. On the
board are S. H. Warner, H. K. N. Mac-
Donnell, Arthur J. Moran and T. B.
O’Meara, who all saw and O.K.’d the show.
* * % s]s
Around Holleton, 50 miles south of the
Perth-Southern Cross railway, some hun-
dreds of men are at work carving a new
wheat province and another mining centre
out of the wilderness. Road-making, clear-
ing, fencing, water conservation, mining
operations and gold-mill erection are in full
swing. Crushing should commence in a
month, and ore from a dozen leases is
awaiting transport to the treatment point.
No Boulder Belt is in view, but a number
of prospectors who have waited years for
a plant will soon reap a harvest great or
small, and the existence of treatment facili-
ties will encourage other prospectors to try
their luck. Holleton prospectors are a game
crowd. They have been dismayed only once.
That was when the Licensing Bench recently
turned down their application for a gallon
license.
Sfs ❖ # ;{J
. More about the State aid to Perseverance
has been broadcasted by Minister for Mines
Munsie (W.A.). The co., it appears, is
being lent up to £lO,OOO free of interest to
assist it to instal at a cost of £30,000 a
250-ton-a-day bromo-cyanide wet treatment
plant, which is expected to chip at least 6s.
a ton off ore-reduction costs. Repayment is
to be made at the rate of Is. per ton treated.
The Federal Government is also assisting
by knocking the duty off machinery imported,
or, in the case of plant manufactured within
the Commonwealth, refunding the amount
by which the Australian article exceeds the
cost of the imported.
* * * #
Wiluna Gold Corporation owns the entire
share capital of Wiluna Gold Mines, Ltd.,
(W.A.), At March 31 last the holding,
together with advances, figured in the Cor-
poration’s books at £695,164; cash stood at
£329,325. Activities have been mainly con-
fined to preparing the mine for production
rather than exposing additional ore. Good
progress is reported in equipping the pro-
perty with appliances to mine and treat
40.000 tons ore a month. Improvements in
gold extraction have necessitated alterations
in the design of the treatment plant. The
changes, although involving a slight delay,
will mean a substantial saving in capital
cost. The railway from Meekatharra to tin*
mine is expected to be completed in November.
* * # *
South Kalgurli and Ingliston Consols
(Meekatharra) are two consistent div. payers
among Westralian shows. Both are worked
below 1000 ft. and contain ore bodies up to
40ft. in width of medium grade. In the
Consols, developments at the bottom level
are so good that the show looks like going
on for a long time. Radio (Southern Cross)
and Golden Age (Menzies), privatelf-owned
shows, are also disbursing handsome profits.
* * * *
Orinda Co. (W.A.) is badly in need of
something worth while. It first tried its
luck at Broad Arrow, and, failing there,
moved on to Twin Hills, where it also drew
a blank. The directors then threw in a
few pounds and equipped a party, which
traversed a fairly wide area without finding
anything worth having. Little is now left
in the till, and unless something promising
turns up the prospect of inducing share-
holders to provide more isn’t bright.
Les Trois, at Westonia (W.A.). is treat-
ing a parcel of about 800 tons at the Edna
May Group battery. A part clean-up from
400 tons yielded 18dwt. by amalgamation.
This result looks satisfactory enough, but
the market did not like it; shares sold down
to Is. From the balance of the parcel a
better yield is expected; but doubt is
expressed concerning the quantity of oro
likely to be won from the mine. So far as
values are concerned, every ton of ore
extracted has yielded well. Judged by
results recently obtained by Edna May
Group, Les Trois, Princess Royal and Hamp-
ton Consols, considerable gold will be won
from the Westonia field before it peters out.
On the first occasion it appears to have
been abandoned prematurely.


1
■
DAVlil
v ax **■
' 3 £
<> v .
mmm %
m
m
m
il
m
mm
Wm
Mmm
m
Dnly 14,585 Preference Shares, and 25,563 Ordinary Shares
left in
HOTEL SAVOY LIMITED
To occupy the noble building known as Daily Telegraph Building, on the corner of
KING AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
Sir ARTHUR RICKARD, K.B.E.
EDWARD J. TAIT, Esq.
ROBERT WALDER, Esq.
OTWAY R. FALKINER, Esq.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE (pro tem.):
F. R. SNOWBALL, Esq., A.C.1.5., 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Don’t miss the opportunity to participate in this golden investment.
Hotel Savoy Limited shares have only been on the market for three weeks.
That subscriptions should come in so freely illustrates the confidence that the investor places m
the enterprise and the Board of Directors.
SPECIAL FEATURES
The “Daily Telegraph” Building, at the corner of King and Castlereagh Streets, offers a unique position, there being no doubt of the opening for a palat.al
Residential Hotel in this fast-growing city. . , . j. 1 . •
The purchase price of the “Daily Telegraph” Building at £305,000 is a very favorable one, as the Company has obta ” e “ »
from Richardson and Wrench, Ltd., of the land, and from Messrs. H. E. Ross and Rowe, of the ex.st.ng bmldmg. These valuabons
aggregate £379,300, or £74,300 more than the Company paid for the property.
Fine shops will occupy frontages to King and Castlereagh Streets, and at a conservative estimate they will return £13,450 per annum.
This sum in itself is a guarantee of the success of the Company.
Revenue from the temporary bar, since it has been opened, has been phenomenal, and is increasing every week.
The details of expenditure and estimates of Income and Profit are shown in the Prospectus, and the figures, which are conservahve, should amply satis y
the keenest critics.
It will be interesting to note here the progress of other hotel companies of a similar nature during the past few years.
The Hotel Sydney was opened in 1912. The Company was reconstructed in 1923, when two new shares were distributed for each share held prior to
reconstruction. Present value of shares (last sale), £l 3s. 3d. Usher’s Metropolitan Hotel Ltd was registered in 1911 ( and reconstructed in l 920 wh
ordinary shareholders received two new shares for each share previously held Present value of shares (last sale), £1 Os. 3d. Hotel M et ™P° le ’ Lt £“
also reconstructed in 1920, when five new shares were distributed for every four shares held m the old company, together with a cash dividend. Present
value of shares (last sale), £1 11s. 6d.
The Australia Hotel Company, Ltd., credited out of reserves a sum of 10s. per share on 50,000 shares in 1920, and a further sum of 12s. 6d. per s are
on 126,866 shares in 1925. Present value of shares (last sale), £l 13s. 6d.
The Directors of Hotel Savoy Limited are, therefore, confident that the Company, under skilful management, and with its greater advantages of location an
structure, will achieve success at least as great as that of its contemporaries.
All contracts in connection with this Prospectus, as set out in detail in form of Prospectus being issued, may be inspected at the office of the Company’s
Secretary.
Applications may be made through any member of the Sydney Stock Exchange, or direct to the Secretary, Rickard House, 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
-FORM OF APPLICATION
To the Directors of
HOTEL SAYOY, LIMITED, 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen, —I hereby request you to allot me Preference/Ordinary Shares of £1 each in the above Company.
I enclose cheque for £ being a deposit of 2/6 per share on application, and I agree to accept such Shares, or any less number you may allot to me, and to pay on allotment:
(a) The balance unpaid in respect of the said Shares, being 17/6 per Share.
(b) 2/6 per Share, and the balance in calls not exceeding 2/6 per Share, at intervals of not less than one month.
I agree to be bound by the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company, and request and authorise you to place my name on the Register of Membeis for the Shaies so a ot e
to me.
NAME IN FULL
ADDRESS IN FULL ;
PROFESSION or OCCUPATION
DATED
USUAL SIGNATURE
;THIS PROSPECTUS FIRST ISSUED 15th AUGUST, 1929


Columbia
INTO “YOUR HOME
masUrworh l/dffircNicitcL
has at last been recorded
in complete jornv
by Columbia
AGAIN Columbia has produced a masterpiece
- in complete opera recording. For years the
most popular work in the whole Italian reper-
toire, “ Traviata ” is ever fascinating by its
wealth of beautiful melodies, so expressive of the
pathetic story. This performance is truly glori-
ous in warmth of tone and dramatic intensity.
The principals are famous and brilliant artists;
the great La Scala chorus complete the perfec-
tion of the rendering. The recording is one of
Columbia’s finest achievements, and English
opera-lovers will take the keenest delight in the
fascinating prose translation specially written
for it by Mr. Compton Mackenzie.
What could be more delightful than to hear Grand Opera
in the comfort of your own home, following the words
of the singers in an English translation which is, in it-
self, a joy to read ! What better entertainment could
you offer your guests ? Or your children ?
In ART ALBUM, with special Booklet of Italian words and
English prose translation by COMPTON MACKENZIE
Complete (15 Records) - - - <£4/10/-
OTHER OPERAS
COMPLETE ON COLUM^IoA
CAVM-Lfcfc^
CANA
SUJST
Obtainable at oAll Leading £Music Stores ‘
%
i
ALWAYS
USE
COLUMBIA
NEEDLES.
Columbia
%£» Records
ELECTRIC RECORDING - WITHOUT SCRATCH.
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS.
MAGIC NOTES
TRADE MARK.
N.S.W.: Grafonola, Ltd., 39 Liverpool Street, Sydney.
VIO.: Columbia Distributors (Vic.) Pty., Ltd., 300 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, C.
QUEENSLAND: King & King, Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane.
A. E. Harrold, 123-125 Charlotte Street, Brisbane.
W.A.: Phonographs, Ltd., 671 Hay Street, Perth.
S.A.: South Australian Phonograph Co., Ltd., Gilbert Buildings, Gilbert Place, Adelaide.
TAS.: Columbia Supplies (Tas.) Pty., Ltd., Launceston, Hobart and Burnie.


INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers’
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
BjMasuaa&ai
SIZEoTWO
SILKCUT VIRGINIA
DRAP
WTd
WLt M 9
1® for ®dl. CIGARETTES 2® for £/&
They Satisfy
because they are made from 100
per cent, pure Virginia tobacco,
thoroughly matured. “Greys”
have a reputation they cannot
afford to lose; they are therefore
consistent in their perfect quality.
“Greys” protect your palate and
leave no after taste. . Let your
next smoke be a “GREYS.”
Of course you
know “Greys
Heavyweights”
are now 1/- for
10; 2/- for 20.
52 Macleay St
Limited
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT, SYDNEY
(Located within the City Boundary, ten
minutes from G.P.0.)
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 160 rooms, is now open, and
features Single Rooms, Double
Rooms with Bath, and two-, three-
and four-room Suites with Bath.
Central Heating, Hot and Cold
Water, ’Phone and Bedside Lamp
in each room. Unsurpassed
Harbor views.
Telephone: F 2161 (8 lines).
Telegraphic Address: “Fifmac,’
Sydney.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Mako”: Material for an Edgar Wallace
thriller is contained in the reports recently
given of sheep-stealing in Maoriland. Min-
ister of Justice Wilford is convinced that
a master criminal is at work, directing bands
of sheep thieves in their raids on farms
and stations. There is evidence of excellent
organisation in these raids, no trace of the
criminals or the stock being discovered.
Motor-lorries are used extensively, and the
sheep are rapidly transported over long dis-
tances. In one case in the South Island
a ’way-back farmer is reported to have lost
nearly the whole of his flock, totalling over
a thousand. On Maoriland’s excellent con-
crete roads the removal to distant fields is
easy, and the opinion of experts is that only
an elaborate system of road patrol by special
officers with a knowledge of stock will cope
with the matter.
* * * *
“Old Bill”: “Tee Essbie” needn’t worry.
Both timber and forest experts know that
THE PERFECT LOVER.
THE GIRL : “I’m sorry, Tommy, but 1 prefer George; he’s so strong, so silent, so
matured.”
THE REJECTED ONE: “I understand—a sort of ’uman Limberger cheese!”
was leaving he produced a bullock-bell at-
tached to a piece of rope, and threw it over
a handy limb. When the sapling swayed the
bell gave forth the peculiar, far-reaching
tinkle of its kind. “Company,” he said.
* * # *
“Karaway”: Among the harmless cranks
that are scattered about the bush, the most
frequently met with are those who pose as
literary lights, the swaggie who was banished
from England because he wanted to marry a
tradesman’s daughter, and the fraud who is
always riding a horse that was “mounted
for the first time yesterday.” This last
chap is mostly a skiter who can’t ride
much, but has great ambitions. I encountered
a specimen at Thylungra, a West Q’land
squattage where nearly all the stockmen
were crack riders. One day he mounted a
colt that grassed him in two seconds. _ “By
cripes, Jimmy, you been too late that time,”
remarked a grinning abo. “You ought to’ve
rode him fust time yesterday.”
* * =!= *
“Spadger”: As the steel ribbons of the
Transcontinental railway reached out to-
wards the Westralian border, the authorities
of the Swan State foresaw that the com-
pletion of the railway would afford a simple
means by which sparrows, could enter the
country. Nests are built in the underframes
of railway vehicles, and by this means the
little brown robber pioneers new territory.
A careful search w T as made and nests with
eggs were actually discovered in axle-boxes;
but evidently they weren’t all found, or the
little chap found other ways of travel, be-
cause you can find him now most of the
way along the line.
* * * *
“John E.”: The mangrove swamp was
fcetidly hot and my feet sank deep at
every stride in its ooze. When I. walked
in a' crabhole water spouted up a yard away
from a connecting entrance. Sandflies bit
my ears and wrists and got up my nose,
despite the fact. that I was anointed with
olive-oil and kerosene. Strange plonking
noises caused by suction in the mud and
by shellfish snapping shut came through
the almost impenetrable tangle of mangrove
roots. Head down, I forced a' passage
’ through, the sweat pouring off me and blind-
ing my eyes. Goggle-eyed mud-jumpers
scooted from beneath my feet and clambered
among the roots. Hermit-crabs hoisted their
conical homes into pools at my approach.
At last I spied my landmark —a mangrove-
tree taller than the average. Somewhere
near it my glasses had found a large nest
in another tree. An eagle’s, I judged, by its
size. Further struggling brought me to its
base. I had brought a length of light rope,
and, making it fast to my burden, I com-
menced shinning up the swaying mangrove
trunk. It was a slippery climb, and half-
way up a shadow swished past me, screaming
defiance. Turning, I saw the bird. Its snow-
white head and breast and rich brown
wings denoted its species—the white-headed
fish-eagle. Hurriedly, I scrambled to the top.
It was as I thought, With hooked bill open
and tongue protruding, .wings spread and
claws outstretched, the half-grown youngster
prepared to attack me. Its eyes glinted
fury. Hastily I hauled up the rope. Quickly
detaching my weapon, I peered over the edge
of the nest again and sighted the eaglet.
The intersection of the lines in the glass
peep-sight covered its head, and I pressed
the trigger. I had got my picture.
* * * *
“Herodot” : The bushman may be taciturn,
but the cocky makes up for it. Lately I
attended a meeting called to arrange a depu-
tation to the shire council about a new
culvert. About 20 were present. The meet-
ing began at 10 in the morning and finished
just-on sunset. Everybody made at least one
long speech ; some made two, and one indi-
vidual delivered three orations one of which
occupied just on an hour. And all that was
said all day could have been expressed in
five minutes.
* $ * *
“Kooragai” : Once we used to think mullet
and other schools of fish travelled right
round the continent, but now it is believed
that, so far as the east coast is concerned,
the mullet is kept to a comparatively short
beat. The Richmond River is particularly
favored for their spawning. Sometimes they
are caught high up by sudden floods, and
then the lower reaches are soon whitened
by tens of thousands of dead fish which
have been smothered through their gills be-
coming clogged with mud before they could
reach the cleansing waters of the ocean.
Most schools of fish remain within certain
small areas, even in rivers, just as. birds
recognise boundaries for their dominions.
(Continued on page 25.)
AT THE BACK O’ BIRDSVILLE.
“What sort of a collar did y’r want, Bill?”
“Any sort, Dan, s’long as it’s not one of those blanky things a man’s got to jump
up to spit over.”
the Norfolk Island pine is a useful timber,
I have turned first-class broom handles,
brush-stocks and table-legs out of Norfolk
Island pines, planted at what in those days
was Governor Brisbane’s country residence
at Gosford (N.S.W.). The wood was con-
sidered first-class by broom-makers, and
repeat orders poured in. Knots had to be
discarded, but the timber is not all knots.
* ' * * *
“Gelt”: Pidgin-English, as used in Man-
dated New Guinea, doesn’t always hit the
nail on the head. A cup of tea was urgently
required. “He got hot water?”
I inquired of the Buka cook.
“Hot water he no hot,” came
the reply. It was only termed
“hot” because it was in the
kettle. A “boy” sent in search
of my lost tobacco-pouch in-
formed me, after I had asked
him whether he had found it:
“Me find him, find him. now
he no stop!” To “find” was
to search, in his vocabulary. A
laborer from a neighboring
plantation informed me that
his master “killem one-fella
boy.” I had visions of my
friend Bill being up for mur-
der until I learned that Bill’s
“killing” had only amounted to
a tap on the chili. Yes, some-
times it hits the nail on the
head —but sometimes it misses.
The pidgin-English in these
islands has developed into a
conglomerated mixture of bad
Australianese, Campbell-street
Chinese, and a few badly dis-
torted remnants of the original
“pidgin,” the derivations of
which have, in most cases, been
forgotten.
* * *
“Up Top”: Chinese diggers
in isolated Queensland camps
sometimes possess a community
joss. Such a camp was hidden
in the jungle ranges of the
Starcke. The Chinese lived in
grass-thatched cubby - houses,
built so low that the inmates
could not straighten up inside.
My mate and I stumbled on the
settlement while prospecting. In
the centre of the camp was
built a miniature temple, with
a grass pagoda-shaped roof.
Within, on a dais of sandal-
wood, squatted a clay joss. The
Chinese grouped around it at
sunrise and sunset, reciting
prayers and reverently bowing.
By day, should a man pass the
place, he always bowed. It was
a queer settlement to find on
Australian soil.
“Molokihi” (Papua) : Like the rest of
the Pacific, the islands to the n.-e. of Papua
have been experiencing abnormal weather
conditions. So affected have been many
natives by the steady and seemingly cease-
less rains that whole villages have given
themselves up to weeping. for their ruined
gardens. The trouble being, as usual, as-
cribed to magic, it was not long before two
miserable old sorcerers were dragged before
the Court by an indignant populace. My
action in detaining them for their own pro-
tection had an unlooked-for sequel. Hardly
had the two ancients settled down to their
new surroundings before an unexpected and
wonderful change occurred in the weather
conditions. The guilt of the accused is now,
of course, doubted by none.
* * * *
“Haybaud”: Recently an old man pitched
his tent on a lonely, convict-cleared hillside
near Seven Hills, outside Sydney. Late one
afternoon I went over for a yarn. As I
HUMOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘'Some coves,” said Joe, have strange ideers
o’ wot they call a joke.
An’ wot they laugh at hurts like mad. You
know the sorter bloke
Who never jerries when to stop; and then
he’ll wonder why . ,
His flamin’ joke comes back on him an
cracks him in the eye.
“I likes me fun, I said before—an’ that
reminds me how
I met a cove at Mulga Downs, a reg lar
waggish cow. .
He knew as many monkey tricks as clowns
an’ suchlike do,
An’ often when he worked his jokes I d
laugh the whole day through.
“An’ then one day he picked on me, an’
made me look a fool
Before the whole confounded shed ! I took
it pretty cool,
For I’d me mind made up that I would
even things that night.
I'm hanged if he could see the joke when
we were through the fight.
“These, funny chaps can go too far, an’
then it ain’t no joke. )
Aw ! Humor’s orlright in its place—l like
to meet a bloke
Who gets his fun from those around an’ yet
has sense ter see
There ain’t no fun in dealin’ out his funny
stuff on me!”
VICTORIA.
P. T. F.


MOTORISTS! Mafe the Acquaintance of—
STERNOL motor OIL
You will be Friends for Life!
iiit'
II! I
H!!
ii!!
Ml!
MO QDqD Q
Mi
m
>! !
!
•in:
niil
lljj
111!
i
\AV
ml
i>l!
M
!!! n
i Ml!
jj}!<
jjjji
iiiji
x
□
ii !
0
□
□
H :
m
Mi
'll;!
mi
Mil
Mil
wm*
BasiwMiß
STERNOL MOTOR OIL is manufactured by
Messrs. Sternol Limited, England, who have been
making first-grade lubricating oils for many years.
They have perfected and patented a VOLTOLIS-
ING PROCESS, with the result that the lubricants
now being placed on the market are the highest
quality it is possible to make.
STERNOL MOTOR OIL is now being packed
in the
NEW, HANDY 5-GALLON DRUMS
with which is issued a
FREE BRASS TAP
to each purchaser.
Install the new 5-gallon drum in your garage and
save time, trouble and money. You can then draw
off the amount you need, at any time, without the
necessity of running to a service-station. And,
moreover, you can be sure of getting the right
grade for your car.
IN 5-GALLON DRUMS THE PRICE IS
PER 33/9 DRUM
You Pay for the Oil Only-
Drum and Tap are FREE
If you own a “MORRIS” or an “AUSTIN,
Read This —
THE AUSTIN MOTOR CO. use and officially recom-
mend Sternol WWH for use in all models.
MESSRS. MORRIS MOTORS, LTD., officially
approve the use of Sternol WWM for use in all models.
Use ONLY the Oil the Makers Recommend
You will get Sweeter Running , More Power and Less Carbon from your Engine
if you stick to STERNOL.
»
n
■
1
IRS
m
m
m
>vx^>Vv
M
W
ti
Ik
1
H
“Makes Engines Purr.”
OBTAINABLE ONLY FROM
WILLIAM ADAMS <f COMPANY
_____ LI M I T E " V
Sydney:
175 Clarence Street.
Melbourne:
521 Collins Street
Perth:
432 Murray Street.
Adelaide:
157 Waymouth Street.
Brisbane:
93 Albert Street.


The Bulletin
ARE YOU
RUPTURED?
With its patent water pad, Denyer’s
Elastic Truss gives every freedom
at work or sport, is always comfort-
able, and provides the ideal Rupture
support. Trusses also made to
OCNVEft
individual require-
ments.
Single, 30 / -
Double, 40/-
Write for FREE Rupture
Pamphlet.
DENYER BROS.,
Dept. 1, 267 George Street, Sydney.
The Bulletin
B€L
/I IYER TOP
IM6BN
{j/uth4
(Mas's
Bottle
■with the
tiiivn label
§23
[Bots
SlLVtfc
DRYCIN
m
Wt
'H
'K ft
The
Wool
is
Grown
Shorn
and
Sold
year after year. Its condition, length, quality and
the market for it may vary from time to time. But
under all circumstances this action shows decided
advantages.
SEND THE CLIP TO—
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
SELLING BROKERS. LTD.
Sydney or Brisbane.
The firm’s active, able work as salesmen is a decisive
force in producing top market values.
“Q. 5.0.”: Why is it that the female fox
doesn’t suckle her young? I saw the mother
fox come home with the family rations and
proceed to tear off tasty bits, which she fed
from her mouth to the eagerly gaping mouths
of the family, very much like Mrs. Magpie
feeding her brood. Old S.A. bushmen assure
me that this is the regulation method for
foxes in rearing their young. The fox is
classed with the mammals, so why this un-
mammalian behavior?
SHE’D SOON FIX HIM UP.
“Hey, girl! This soup ain’t fit fer a pig.”
“Right oh! I’ll bring you some that is.”
“Coot” : The name “kangaroo” first appeared
in print in 1773, in a book, “Journal of a
Voyage,” which was published by the re-
latives of Parkinson, who was draughtsman
to Banks, and who died during Cook’s voy-
age. In this volume it is spelt “kangooroo.”
In J. Hawkesworth’s official account of
Cook’s voyage, published later the same
year, he has a lengthy description of the
animal, which he states was called by the
natives “kanguroo.” Cook, in his Journal
(1770), states that the natives called it
“kangooroo or kanguru.”
* * * *
“Frigid”: “What is the effect,” I asked
a farmer, “of the saltbush around here
on your cattle and milk?” “Well,” he
replied, “you wouldn’t suppose it would
ALWAYS SOMETHING.
COUNTRY VISITOR: “You oughtn’t to grumble about droughts so much; why, .next
season’s likely to be a good one.”
FARMER: “Yes, and I bet th’ flamin’ willy-wagtails’ll pull th’ wool off th’ sheep’s backs
by the bale t’ build their nests with.”
matter as much as it does; but I have been
making tons and tons of butter for the last
40 years, and have never had to use a pint
of salt in it; and, what’s more, I can slaugh-
ter my cattle, cut them up just as they are
into corned beef, and sell it as I have been
doing for years and years.”
* > * $
“Sea Nomad”: The storms of the Barrier
are continually forming sandspits among
the Torres Strait reefs, sometimes only t 6
wash them away again. But when an islet
has come to stay it sprouts a surprising
variety of life in
a wonderfully short
time. Such a bank
was formed among
the Howick Group
about 10 years
ago. I visited the
Group recently,
and could scarcely
recognise wliat
had been a bare
patch of sand
heaped upon coral.
It is now much
larger, with a cov-
ering of rapidly-
growing tree s—
mangrove, casuar-
ina, pandanus
palms, tea-tree and
several others
whose names I
don’t know 20
varieties of shrubs,
numerous creepers
and vines, and
three, kinds of
tough island grass.
There were flow-
ers, and a sprink-
ling of birds from
the neighboring
islands, together
with centipedes,
crickets, rats and
fairly numerous in-
sects. Much of the
plant life had been
washed ashore by
seed from the sea,
which must carry
surprising numbers
of prospective
plants looking for a settled home. The
flowers and creeper seeds may have been
brought by the birds, Possibly driftwood
carried the insects and lizards, as castaways.
* * * $
“Gouger”: Three hundred miles up the
Fly River (N.G.) is an isolated village in
the heart of a “sac-sac” swamp. The houses
are perched on the trunks of trees with the
tops chopped off. Bamboo platforms sur-
round each house, and on these all day
long craftsmen sit carving spearheads in
beautiful and intricate designs. Work in
bone is their specialty. The most cherished
spearheads are those fashioned from the
thigh-bones of men, and blades made from
the leg-bones of the cassowary come next
in favor. The craftsmen’s job is to ornament
the already shaped blades with a marvellous
filigree work, which runs right down the
long blade, taking the many cruel barbs in
its stride. Each barb is ornamented in a
patternwork of the tiniest holes. The blade
when embellished has the appearance of a
pointed ribbon of white lace. When such a
weapon is thrust into a man it is intended
to break into very many fragments. The
boring work is done with a drill the shape
and size of a needle, the cutting point being
of the hardest flint. It is operated on the
bow-and-cord system with string of plaited
fibre. I have seen a man bore 100 holes
through a dog’s tooth with one of these
drills.
* * * *
“Bouragi”: In the spirit of the exile of
the wilds returned to civilisation to blow
in his cheque, “Berbantu” (B. 16/10/’29)
invites all and sundry to stand aside while
he deals with me for asserting that the blow-
pipe was not known in New Guinea. I
accept his correction, but point out that the
discovery only dates from 1925, and that
the. description is confined to an anthropo-
logical report to which I have not had
access. “Ber.’s” assertion that he has been
longer “on both sides of the • Australian-
controlled border” than myself is not chal-
lenged, since my incursions into then German
territory were few and far between, in com-
mon with those of other B.N.G. officials.
However, even in the early 1900’s I can
recall quite a number of old B.N.G. resi-
dents who hurriedly crossed the border and
were careful not to come back, so “Ber.”
is not alone in his experience of both Ter-
ritories.
* * * :J:
“Pick”: The red-breasted robin, which
chooses a cold climate for nesting, builds the
most symmetrical hatchery of all the smaller
denizens of Birdland. The structure has
the size and shape of a teacup, and is com-
posed mainly of colored bark and cobweb.
While the male robin gathers the material
and erects the frame, his diminutive mate
shapes the growing structure by industri-
ously turning and pushing with her breast
from inside, and a happier and more con-
tented pair of co-workers could not be
imagined. The finish is an interior lining of
soft grass and small feathers, also bound with
cobweb. The job takes three weeks of inces-
sant labor. Miles of spiders’ web are inter-
woven amongst the bark, and thousands of
spiders are robbed in its collection, and in
the gathering of the innumerable tiny
feathers and wisps of grass with which the
interior is made cosy, hundreds of miles
are spent in flying. Mr. and Mrs. Robin
are a proud pair when the work is done
and the egg-laying has commenced.
* * * *
“Mulgo” : Has anyone known an abo. to
die of snakebite? Binghi is always among
snakes, and hunters wander naked through
swamps and other favorite haunts of the
reptiles, but only an occasional wriggler
escapes their keen eyes. When one does
get rts fangs into him the abo. immediately
washes the wound, bv which means he gets
rid of the surface venom and thus lessens
the danger of serious consequences. If there
is no water handy he gets his dog to lick
the wound. Next he presses hard with his
thumbs around the punctures until they
bleed no more. If possible he has the wound
sucked. Sometimes, after washing and
applying a ligature, an incision’is made, and
some liquid bloodwood-gum poured into it.
“Pudden” : I'm not butting into the argu-
ment about the sun taking the temper out
of tools; but I’ll have a
word to say about the
mug fencer who’s hand-
ling a crowbar and shovel.
You can pick him every
time. He throws his bar
on the ground while
shovelling. The seasoned
fellow sticks it in the
ground beside, him. The
standing bar is easier to
reach than a tool lying
on the ground—that’s the
lesser reason of it. The
main idea is a protection
against heat. In the
Queensland summer, par-
ticularly on the open
downs, a bar lying flat on
the ground for 10 minutes
is too hot to hold. Stuck
erect the thing may be
there for hours and still
be comfortable to the
grip. Why? . The sun
gets as fair a slant at
the thing both ways.
Lying down or erect
there’s always one side shaded. There are
a dozen arguments against any difference in
temperature, but the fact remains.
:!: * * *
“Macdon”: Mondayitis is a malady not
confined to urban toilers. Here in Bougainville
(Solomons) there afe dusky sons of Melan-
esia who are stricken with relentless regu-
larity. Particularly I have two sufferers,
Ivegine and Kwikaro, who have the dodge
down to a fine art. They have a secret
of getting up a fever temperature for an
hour or so, and as yet they have me beaten
with the 100’s and 102’s that are faithfully
registered. When I was new to the game
they usually had a day or so’s rest in the
hospital at the company’s expense, but nowa-
days my cure is a packet of Epsom salts
and handing them over to my boss cook for
“light duty.” My ptomaine-dispenser is a
great disciplinarian, and rapid recoveries
are getting common and recurrences less and
less frequent. I’d like to find out that
temp, dodge, though.
* ❖ *
“E.S.”: One of Binghi’s sacred trees on
the N.S.W. North Coast ,is the red-cedar,
though why it was sacred is not now
known. Apparently Binghi’.s ancestors re-
garded it as something of a hoodoo tree, and
believed that terrible things would happen to
anyone who harmed it. Some of the early
cedar-getters got superstitions about it, too,
THE PROPOSAL.
“Bin ’avin’ bad spin, Mary. No plurry
work! No plurry money! Mine tinkit
we better get married and look out for
baby bonus.”
for there was a long succession of tragic
happenings when the jungles were first ex-
ploited. including the wrecks of a dozen or
more ships that laded the timber, two or
three being lost with all hands. Thousands
of the logs were also lost. Binghi would not
climb the tree, nor molest a bird that took
refuge in its branches.
MIMOSADALE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bullock bells in the range, and the torch of
the wattle gleaming
Yellow against the grey of the bush, and
the whipbird’s call —
I thought I was back in Mimosadale, but
I know now ’twas only dreaming,
While over the crowded city the quiet
night shadows fall.
Magpies high in the dead timber, blue wrens
low in the bramble,
High noon over the ridges and hinting of
afternoon;
Pink of the starred peach blossom where
tall weeds riot and scramble,
And the pear-tree loaded with loveliness,
and the apple-tree budding soon.
Down in the homestead acre I could hear
the young calves lowing,
And never a sight or sound of Spring but
was mine for a little space.
The breath of an old-time garden on a gay
wind blowing, blowing,
And the dog-rose over the doorway in
bloom —and my mother’s face.
Low sun rifting the west with the crimson
of cloudy veilings;
A late lark over the fallow, a bronzewing
deep in the musk;
Horses cropping the short sweet grass back
of the stockyard railing,
And all of a sudden the crickets singing
a threnody in the dusk.
Twice ten years and the rest —and nobody
else remembers!
There is never a spring of Ponce de Leon,
a fountain of Castaly
To recover the old rare magic, the glory of
lost Decembers
Or the glamor of half-forgotten Junes, in
the years that are yet to be.
Sunlight over the range, and a spiral of blue
smoke streaming
Against the grey of the sleepy bush on a
very summer’s day.
I thought I was back in Mimosadale, yet
I knew it was only dreaming,
And the odor of burning gum-leaves from
somewhere over the way.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


The Bulletin
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
English public school man, Vic., skilled mechanic,
wants job as secretary-chauffeur. Country preferred.
—2971.
Governess, Australian, trained find experienced,
wants position, W.A. preferred. Refs.—297s.
Man, 26 (N.S.W.), 10 years’ exp. engineering,
surveying and constructions, wants interesting and
remunerative job anywhere.—29B6.
Young man (20), exp. as timber tallyman and
consigning clerk, five years with Melb. firm, wants
job in Fiji or Pacific Islands.—29 Bo.
Young man (23), married, journalist, salesman,
desires position where study and hard work required.
Opportunity for advancement. Refs.—2969.
Retired lithographic artist wants work engrossing
certificates, writing on negatives, visiting-cards or
other small work. —2959.
Man (25) wants job out back in any State. Good
with horses and motors; station and farm experi-
ence ; handyman.—3ol3.
Old-age pensioner, Sydney, carpenter and joiner,
still very active, will give services in return for
furnished room, any part N.S.W. —3030.
Partly-trained hospital nurse, Sydney, good house-
keeper, desires position care of invalid, 355. weekly.
—2967.
Englishwoman, refined, extensive experience, wants
position, hotel bookkeeper, reception, linen, house-
keeper or companion. Refs. Go anywhere.-—3036.
Young woman (22), 12 months’ nursing experience
(excellent references), also capable needlewoman,
generally adaptable, wants position as companion
help to lady in New Guinea. —2997.
To buy, new or second-hand, “Eyes of Vigilance,”
by Furnley Maurice; and “Black Opal,” by K. S.
P richard. —2963.
To buy planing machine, second-hand, suitable for
cypress pine bush mill. Also second-hand steam-
engine, portable or traction, at least 8 h.p.—2961.
To buy sets of first-class and fourth-class Black-
friars Correspondence Leaflets. —3009.
To buy a young dog, capable of detecting snakes,
by Q’iand resident. —3005.
To buy “Betty Wayside,” by Louis Stone. —3066.
To buy “Letters from Ocean Tramp” (1908),
“Racehorses in Australia” (1922), Australian Stud
Books, “Salt-water Ballads” (1902), MacGillivray’s
“Australian Horse” (1902). —3067.
Lady extremely isolated would welcome letters
from readers interested in native customs, habits,
superstitions, stamps and photography.—2996.
Words of “He stood within the felon’s dock,” and
another “It was on the benches in the park that I
first met Lucy.”—3oo3.
Words of “Judgment of Valhalla.”—299B.
Words of “McCarty’s Four-in-Hand.”—29Bs.
Words of verse containing “All houses wherein men
have lived and died are haunted houses.” —2992.
Young man would like to correspond with resident
of Pacific Islands. —3048.
Whereabouts of Charles Bruce Hillman or his wife,
Charlotte Hillman, last heard of at Surry Hills,
Sydney.—3o32.
Information Sought.
(1) When the London price of tin is
quoted at £2OO per ton , how is the unit price
in Australia arrived at? —2481.
If tin is quoted at £2OO per ton a unit
would be worth £2, but that means metallic
(refined) tin. To-day, when the London
price of tin is £192 per ton, the unit price
paid for 70 p.c. clean tin concentrate is
345. 4d. per unit. The difference is made
up of the smelting, refining and realisation
charges.
(1) Would it be possible to use a four-
cylinder motor-car ey-gine as a means of pro-
pelling a 12- or 15 -ton boat? What
would be the mileage per ga110n? —2566.
(1) Yes. Many car motors have been
installed in boats. To give economical results
the propeller should be geared down. (2)
Depends on power of engine and its suita-
bility for the work.
Would a person convicted of perjury in
N.S.W'. be allowed to exercise the franchise
at a State election after serving a sentence
of imprisonment?—29ss-
- 20 (3) (e) of the Parliamentary
Electorates and Elections Act provides that
although a person is otherwise qualified to
be an elector he shall be incapable of voting
if during six months preceding the holding
of any election he has been imprisoned with-
out the option of a fine for an aggregate
period of three months.
(1) Arc buffaloes reared in the Northern
Territory? (2) Is the flesh used or only the
skins ? —-2614.
(1) No* with any degree of success. Ex-
perimental rearing was tried during 1916-18
by the late P. Cahill. It was found that,
although at maturity the reared buffalo
proved fairly docile, it was still inclined to
destroy station property. (2) The flesh of
the voung female buffalo is often used as a
substitute for beef, but the buffaloes are
mostly hunted for their hides.
Hoiv is eocoanut flesh dried and copra
made? —2927.
There are various methods of drying the
flesh. Sun drying is carried out by placing
the split nut on a wire frame. When the
flesh is quite dried by the sun a knife is
slipped around the inside of the shell and the
copra falls out. In kiln-drying, the flesh of
the eocoanut is placed in an oven and left
until dried. Another method of drying is
to place either the split nuts or flesh only
on shelves in a shed, powerful electric fans
being* employed to create a strong drying
current of air. When smoke-drying is re-
sorted to. the flesh is removed from the shell
bv a knife and placed on wire or split bam-
boo frames about 4ft. from the ground ; fires
are then lit underneath with fibre and green
leaves as fuel, in order to create smoke.
This method can either be worked in a shed
or in the open. Copra when ready is taken
into the shed and cut into pieces, in order
to bag for shipment. The general average
is 1401 b. per bag, or 15 bags to a ton.
Is there any easier way of plucking Mus-
covy ducks and drakes than by scalding
them? —2869. , ■
Scalding is the only easy way of pluck-
ing ducks, and the best way to do this is to
dip the ducks first into cold water, then into
scalding water, and into cold water again
afterwards.
What are orchids and what makes them so
valuable?— 2976.
There are many thousand varieties of
orchids divided into two groups, one growing
non-parasitically on trees, and tli.e other on
the earth. The flowers, brilliantly colored
and often highly scented, range through
all sizes, and have six perianth segments,
three sepals, two petals and a labellum. In
the centre is the column, a union of stamens,
style and stigma in one organ. The most
costly orchids grow in tropical jungles re-
mote from civilisation and are obtained at
risk to human life; hence their high value.
But there are quite cheap ones—many are
growing wild within 10 miles of the Syd-
ney G.P.O.
(1) Is there a sufficient continuous de-
mand for turkeys to warrant the breeding of
these birds to obtain, say, Is. 6 d. per lb live
weight whenever marketed? (2) Would it
pay to breed 3000 birds a year? (3) Where
to obtain the best books on American and
Australian methods of rearing and fattening?
(4) Any figures available as to cost of breed-
ing and rearing? (5) Would Sydney be a bet-
ter market than Melbourne all the year
round ? —3OOO.
(1) No. The average price would not be
more than about Is. per lb. (2) Yes, if
properly handled. (3) Apply Anthony Hor-
derns. The Department of Agriculture will
have a leaflet available shortly. (4) No;
but O. Von Rieben, Giles-street, Toorak,
Adelaide, gave the business a thorough trial
some years ago, and he might advise you if
he were asked. (5) Yes.
(1) Into what classes is commercial art
divided? (2) Which form is most required?
(3) Where would one apply for a position?
(4) What salaries are paid to commercial
artists ? —1763.
(1) Lettering, still-life drawing, figure
drawing in line and wash, color designs for
all purposes. Commercial art, in short,
trenches on all fields of pictorial and decora-
tive composition. (2) Illustrations for news-
paper and magazine advertising in line and
wash. (3) At a commercial-art studio, a
printing establishment which has a litho-
graphic and art department, or a retail
drapery store • ■where they have an advertis-
ing and window-display department. (4)
From the basic wage to £l5OO a year.
(1) Any information about “Liverpool
virus” as an exterminator of rats, supposed
to have been used extensively in Ireland?
(2) Is it safe to handle, and non-poisonous
to humans, fowls, etc. (3) Can it be pro-
cured in Australia? —2743.
(1) The extermination of rats by inocu-
lating a few rodents with va bacillus in the
hope of setting up an epidemic disease has
not proved successful. (2) It is not proved
that such a disease may not spread to other
animals. (3) Such products are banned by
the Customs authorities, except by special
authority of the Commonwealth Minister for
Trade and Customs.
(1) If I fell the jungle along a creek will
it increase the water supply? (2) Will
evaporation, due to laying the water bare
to the sun, reduce the flow? (3) If I
ringbark the timber on the forest slopes that
fall towards the stream for a quarter of a
mile back, will the stream benefit? —2788.
(1) Yes, if the country is suitable. (2)
Probably it won’t make much difference in
that respect. (3) It will probably increase
the run-off. There is always a risk, however,
in some classes of country, that clearing will
increase erosion, and it may also be contribu-
tory to the silting up of waterholes. An-
other phase of the matter is that scrub
checks seepage, and thus augments the creek
supply.
(1) Hotv much butter per week can be
made from the cream of one cow? (2) What
would be the cost of feed, besides grass, of
which there is plenty? —279o.
(1) A good cow would give an average
of 2 gallons of milk daily, which would
give 71b. butter a week if the whole of the
cream were used. Part of the separated
milk could be used for cooking. (2) Varies
according to seasonal conditions and price of
fodder. The cost of stall-feeding throughout
an average season would approximate Is. 9d.
per day.
Was there a rank during the war'{ l9l4-
18) as “King’s Sergeant” or “King’s Cor-
poral” in British Army or A.I.F.? —2858.
This question has been answered in the
negative several times in the Service Page.
But so persistent have been the inquiries
that an official statement has been obtained
from the Defence Dept.: During the Great
War, as the result of statements made re-
garding these supposed ranks and the privi-
leges conferred by their grant, inquiries
were made from the War Office, but no trace
could be found of any such distinction ever
having been granted. No such grant was
awarded in the A.I.F.
(1) What plants should be used in an
aquarium to purify the water? (2) What
small fish are best to start with? (3) When
should they be put in? (4) Should fresh-
water snails be put in the water? (5)
Books on the subject? —2Bo6.
(1) Vallisneria or Anacharis planted in
about 2|in. of coarse, well-washed sand or
a mixture of sand and fine shell grit. (2)
Goldfish and gudgeons, which are obtainable
in considerable variety. (3) The plants
must be thoroughly established before fish
are introduced to the aquarium. (4) Yes.
(5) W. T. Innes’s “Goldfish Varieties and
Tropical Aquarium Fishes.”
How to produce a smooth, glossy surface
on a concrete floor 12 ft. x 12ft.? —2500.
Lay a base course 3in. thick and com-
posed of approximately 1 part cement, 2
parts sand, 4 parts gravel and a 1-inch
wearing course composed of 1 part of cement
to 2 parts of sand. Finish with a steel
trowel.
(1) How is the Australian black rated for
intelligence among colored races? (2) Did
the Victorian blacks learn to make fire from
the Tasmanian abos.f (3) Is there proof
that Tassie was once joined to the continent?
—2621.
(1) There is a common idea that the
Australian abos. are inferior in intelligence
to other races, but there is no evidence of
this. The fact that they have not
developed their civilisation further than they
have is due to their geographical position.
Australia has no wild plants that could be
cultivated and no wild animals that could
be usefully domesticated. Higher civilisations
are the result of the settled life and dense
population resulting from the discovery ot
agriculture. The movement that carried
civilisation from eastern Asia and from
Egypt into northern Europe only a few cen-
turies ago failed to reach Australia. (2)
There is no evidence in support of the theory.
(3) Yes; but the probability is that the
separation took place before there were any
human inhabitants in either country.
What quantity of wheat was exported from
each State for the season 1928-29 V —2903.
N. S. Wales, 11.361,843 bushels; Vic.,
14,530,761 bushels; Q’land, 24,474 bushels;
S.A., 7,566,378 bushels; W.A., 15,654,291
bushels.
(1) How will the present price of wool
compare with 1913-14 season? (2) With
war period? (3) Has the sovereign depreci-
ated since 1913-14, and to what extent?
(4) Is the woolgrower better or worse _ off
to-day because o.f the depreciated sovereign?
(5) When xcool notes refer to Bradford and
Yorkshire is there any difference? (6) Tak-
ing the period since the war, what percentage
of Australian production of wool have they
taken (a) over the latter half? (b) over the
former half? (7) If their purchases are
decreasing, why? (8) Do they confine their
purchases to any particular class of wool? —
2904.
(1) The average price for wool sold in
Australia during tine pre-war year was 10Jd.
In September this year it was 10.7 d. Since
then it has risen approximately 10 p.c. (2)
During the life of the Wool Appraisement
Scheme the basis was 15hd. plus a share in
Bawra re-sale profits. (3 and 4) Nominally
gold doesn’t depreciate; but it now buys
less of most commodities. For Australian
exports for which we would have got £lOOO
in 1913-14 we would get last year approxi-
mately £l6OO. On the other hand) of course,
gold buys less of the things we require.
(5) No. (6) Proportion of Sydney ship-
ments to United Kingdom, Continent and
other destinations (principally Japan and
America) is given below since the pre-war
year:—
Con- Other
U.K. tinent. Destinations.
1913-14 . . 21.6 72.6 5.8
1916-17 .. 78.0 14.0 8.0
1920- . . 55.4 28.6 16.0
1921- . . 41.0 45.4 13.6
1922- . . 37.5 43.1 19.4
1924-25 .. 29.8 48.5 21.7
1926-27 . . 27.0 54.9 18.1
1928-29 .. 22.8 57.2 20.0
(7) The U.K. shipments gradually dwindled
before the war as the policy of direct pur-
chases of the Continental section in Australia
developed. The war wiped out the Continen-
tal demand; since the war the position has
gradually returned to normal. (8) Bradford
buyers take mainly average top-making sorts
as distinct from the fine spinning wools
which the Continental sections specialise in.
T Vhen using paper mulching for fruit trees
will not the paper intercept and absorb the
rain, thus preventing it getting to the roots
of the tree?— 2923.
The paper mulch manufactured now has
slits in it to allow the rain to pass through
into the soil.
’(T) Cost of boring plant capable of boring
100 ft.? (2) Are there any cheap water-
finders on the market? —2654.
(1) Somewhere about £5O. The Water
Supply Department, the Barracks, Perth,
hires out liand-boring plants capable of
boring to a depth of 100 ft. to approved
applicants for a period of three months at
a minimum fee of £3. Conditions and appli-
cation forms can be obtained from the Under-
secretary of the Dept. (2) Don’t know of
any. Get in touch with J. Bourne, c/o Mr.
Northey, West Northam (W.A.), or Mr.
Allen, c/o Mr. Il’ine, Beverley (W.A.).
(1) Is there a treatment for cows in eases
where, after the birth of a calf, the placenta
is kept back. (2) What’s the cause? —2849.
(1) Take two flat pieces of wood about
2ft. long by l|in. broad. The portion of
the placenta which is protruding should be
held between those pieces and gradually
rolled up. This must be done with care, as
any force will tend to injure the -womb, and
in all probability septicaemia and death will
result. (2) The cause is that the attach-
ment to the cotyledons, or “strawberrys,” is
so great that the afterbirth cannot be shed
at its normal time. This may happen with
any cow.
(1) Why do fowls eat feathers? (2) Cure?
—2948. ' , , . .
(1) It is usually due to some deficiency in
the food, an excess of concentrates or too
close confinement. The deficiencies most
common are lack of salt, shell-grit, meat or
green-stuff. Occasionally the trouble may
result from a heavy infestation by vermin.
(2) Remove the cause.
How can I make spaghetti? —2729.
Place in a basin a quantity of flour and
lightlv salt it; then add enough water to
make" a stiff dough. Flour and roll out
several times, finally rolling very thm. Cut
into small diamond shapes or long narrow-
strips. and dry thoroughly in a very slow-
oven, but do not brown it. When quite hard
and dry, store in airtight tins.
Brief Answers.
F.H.F.: If safety is important, pick
another.... Belmont: (1) Nothing to base a worth-
while opinion upon. (2) No. (3) The face
value of the share... .H.J.M.: No, you’re safe unless
a letter of allotment was sent you. .. .M.J.M.: (1) Many
and varied. (2) Differs in different people. (3)
Treatment by psychiatrist. Sometimes a sudden
shock. (4) The case you mention is possible. .- .
W.E.A.: (1) There is no known certain cure for
catarrh. (2) If you smoke or drink, knock it off
completely and see what effect it has. Douche out
the nose three or four times a day with warm salt
and water. Ask your chemist for a nasal douche.
. ...H.8.5.: We know of no medicine that will cure
chronic alcoholism. The best thing is to put him
in a nursing home. . . .C.C.: Your doctor has done very
well with the case. There’s no perfect cure for
rheumatism in the case of middle-aged people....
E.G.M.: Wear boots with straight inner border and
squared toe-piece. In some cases an operation is
very successful. Ask your doctor for the name of
a bone specialist... .W. A. B.: Practically no open-
ings on overseas steamers, as the crews are signed
on in London for the round voyage, and if mem-
bers of the ship’s company are taken ill the vessels
usually sail without replacing them. At certain
times of the year the Orient Co. and the P. and O.
Branch Lines engage a few extra hands, such as
stewards. Intel-State cos. engage their crews in
Australia, but the majority of the members are
drawn from the maritime unions. The Shipping
Master at Cairns might be able to find you a
berth J.W.: (1), (2) and (4) Apply Superin-
tendent, Mercantile Marine Office, Sydney. (3)
No A.Q.: C. H. Winter (“Riverina” of The
Bulletin) is publishing a book of verse entitled
“The Story of ’Bidgee Queen,” through the New
Century Press, 375 Kent-street, Sydney. .. .J.D.: It
is, as the teacher says, an exercise in simple divi-
sion and multiplication, but the form is algebraic
and the reasoning processes involved are, in our
opinion, too complex to be presented to second-
class pupils Cobber: (1) For dandruff in dogs
make an emulsion of soap and water, and add a
tablespoon of kerosene to the bucket of emulsion.
Wash dog with mixed emulsion, dry, and massage.
(2) Good food properly administered, and grooming,
will enable any well-bred dog to look stylish in a
show ring. There’s no necessity to use chemicals. ...
V.W.D.: (1) Apply to James Hardie and Co., Ltd.,
Wunderlich’s Ltd., or Noyes Bros. —all of Sydney.
(2) Apply to Manco Flooring Co., Ltd., 208 George-
street, Erskineville, Sydney.... A.N.N.: (1) To clean
pewter, wash well in hot, soapy water, and if neces-
sary scrub it with a light brush. When dry, rub on
a paste made of whiting and cloudy ammonia.
Allow this to dry, then remove with a flannel, rub-
bing briskly. Finish with a silk duster. (2)
Pewter-ware has to be at least 100 years old and
of special interest or charm to be valuable as an
aritique. Get a valuation from Lister Ormsby,
Leigh House, Castlereagh-street, Sydney W.M.:
Try Dr. J. J. Luddy, Ascot Chambers, Brisbane
K.C.P.: A muddy dam can probably be cleared for
garden use by placing powdered gypsum (21b. per
1000 gallons) in a muslin bag attached to a stick,
and dragging this through the surface waters until
all the gypsum is dissolved. .. .J.S.: (1) Moody
and Co., 15 Goulburn-street, Sydney, will repair.
Should a new armature winding be necessary the
cost will be about £3 ss. (2) When ordering a
magneto, specify direction of rotation, centre
height of shaft, method of mounting and make and
type of engine. (3) No advantage would be gained
by the use of aviation spirit in a car. . . .L. 8.: Sug-
gest “Weeamera,” meaning “music”; “Gurawin,”
“Bondarabin” and “Muraban,” all meaning “flowers” ;
and “Buddi,” “Miggan” and “Darrandurai,” all mean-
ing “corner” J.D.H.: The number of bearing and
non-bearing lemon-trees in N.S.W. for the years
mentioned were as follows: 1918, non-bearing trees,
93,553 ; bearing, 242,546. 1922 : 60,968 and 217,387.
1927: 43,188 and 225,644. Figures' for mandarin-
trees are as follows: 1918: 80,567 and 442,843 ;
1922: 103,963 and 432,033; 1927: 156,113 and
527,875 J.T.: (1) (2) and (3) There is Crown
Land available in the vicinity of Mornington (Vic.),
and the Lands Department, Melbourne, will supply
particulars. (4) To ascertain the ownership of private
land you must have a search made at the office
of Titles, Melbourne, and a definite description of
the land must be given (allotment, section, area,
parish, etc.) ... .E.R.L.: “Tarrawatta” means “a
meal of grass seed”. .. . A.M.D.: The general principle
with regard to riparian rights is that where water
in its natural course flows through an owner’s land
from adjoining land, the owner of the adjoining land
cannot, as against owners below him, sensibly
diminish its quantity. Your case, however, is com-
plicated by other considerations which would require
careful investigation by a solicitor. .. .J.T.: It would
be divided equally among the three children. ...
E.G.S.: The Royal Agricultural Society of N.S.W.
cannot trace the exhibit mentioned.... R.C.: Any
Sydney bookseller could order it from U.S.A. for
you. It costs about 16s 8.T.L.: Apply to the
secretary Q’land Prickly-pear Land Commission, for
copy of last annual report... .N.R.W.: No, you have
a right of user to the water flowing through, but
no ownership over it, nor of the fish brought down
by it... . W.L.: The average price of rabbit skins
in Sydney on October 1 was 2s. 9d. per lb
Fallow: The returns look alluring; but, remember,
the mine is eating itself to provide them. The danger
is that you’ll presently find yourself with divs.
finished and no capital to earn any more. . . .C.W.
(Q) :■ We don’t recommend it if safety is important.
The men are honorable, but not very successful....
J.F.P.: (1) So far Keep McPherson’s pref. div. has
been easily earned. But trade has not been very
brisk, and it is proposed to seek more retail business.
(2) Not a great risk, especially for an 8 p.c. return.
(3) Present is a poor price to sell almost anything
unless you have to. (4) “Cum. [cumulative] pre-
ference” means that if the 8 p.c. is not paid in one
year, 16 p.c. must be paid the next, and so on.
J.A.O’C.: Interest on deposit accounts in the
Commonwealth Savings Bank is at the rate of 4 p.c.
It was raised from 3+ p.c. on October 1, 1928. It
is* computed on calendar months, fractions of calendar
months not counting, and is not compounded. On
the account you mention interest is computed by
the bank to be 4s. lid H.T.N.: Better leave it
for a while, the market has its pockets buttoned
for the moment F.W.: No. The next best course
would be to attend the evening classes at the
Sydney Technical College and to sit for the diploma
for the subject W.J.T.: A maternity allowance is
not paid in any circumstances prior to the occurrence
of the birth in respect of which the allowance is
payable F.F.: Submit an application for an invalid
pension to the Invalid and Old-age Pensions Office,
Chalmers-street, Sydney, stating full circumstances.
They will give it every consideration. .. .A.S.L.: Four
vessels arrived in Melbourne from ’Frisco during
June, 1853: the Sarah Hooper on the 16th, General
Wood and Jane on the 18th, and David Cross on
the 30th. The names S. Lewis and C. F. Lewis
appear on the passenger list of the Jane, and Beck
(initials not given) on the General Wood. ...N.G.S.:
Consult the Chief Quarantine Officer (Animals),
Stook and Brands Dept., Flinders-street, Adelaide.
(Many others mailed.)


Dunlop Mileage is on
a Big Scale"-
s
r
v
I!
ii
$
friSh*
pv>
P
iti'!
€
!ti*r
•i*
V
••
p
u^j
i
X
1
5K
, % o*
3
m
illllUl
/;/
i
CAQagp
\JN
,« ''o l
air .1*
_ox
' c>r
r-
f o.
A,
r
m.
r
r
esm
~ o
y
m
m
§
■
mmm.
IQ
■
'stun,'
'MUi
to
a* t
m
m
mm
m
m
m
fjjji,
/ ,
8000 GARAGES STOCK THEM
travels on
DUNLOP
travels
-and what
great tyres
they are!
There is one thing motorists can always
be sure of when tyres by Dunlop
are selected and that is every
DUNLOP
Cover and Tube has inbuilt the quality
of materials and workmanship to assure
a full return in care-free mileage for
outlay.
At all times Tyres by Dunlop are an
asset on an automobile .... and their
outstanding durability is paralleled by
their pleasing reliability.
t • •
The first opportunity you have ... fit
Dunlop . . . and know the fine service
these tyres ensure.
they cost no more !


Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
WOOL SALES.
“Good. Competition, but jaidty wools still
irregular and difficult of sale.”
—S. M. Herald, 17/9/29.
With the wool position as it is to-day, it is
imperative that sheep be kept in as good
condition as possible to enable them to grow
high-quality wool.
It has been proved by many Graziers that this can be done by the
constant use of
VITA-LICK.
VITA-LICK, LIMITED,
STOCK LICK SPECIALISTS,
107 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
r^.-X
• irv-
\ »
PEAPES
clothe men AND their sons.
Conveniently located in the
centre of the men’s business
area of the city, PEAPES’
commanding position in
George Street, exactly opposite
Hunter Street, makes it an
easy landmark.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CRPARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
MORE PRIZES FOR FARMERS.
In order to encourage farmers to pass
on to others the fruits of their observa-
tion and experience, “The Bulletin” will
give three prizes for the most helpful
contributions during the six months to
Dec. 31 next.
Points will be awarded for every con-
tribution submitted, if thought worthy and
whether printed or not, and two prizes—
the first of £25 and the second of £10—•
will be given to the winners of most
points.
A special prize of £5 will be given for
the best individual contribution!
Only contributions that are of practical
value to men on the land are asked for;
literary merit is not taken into account, so
long as the meaning is expressed plainly.
The prizes are in addition to the ordi-
nary payments made for all “Bulletin”
contributions.
♦
VARYING SOILS IN THE MALLEE.
“Glenfield”; The average Mallee farmer
knows his soil is deficient in phosphoric acid,
because he can grow better crops with a suf-
ficient dressing of superphosphate. He
assumes his ground has sufficient lime con-
tent because of the abundance of limestone.
Fie can see that an increase of organic mat-
ter is necessary by the improvement in his
crops as soon as he consistently grazes sheep
on his stubbles. But he feels that there
is ample scope for research and experiment
as he gazes at a paddock and counts four
or five patches of different soils.
This paddock will grow a good and fairly
even crop when well worked, and with
ample moisture; but in the drier years these
patches vary considerably in density of
growth.
A limey patch of nibbly soil on my farm
produced a thin spindly plant, possibly owing
to its inability to retain moisture. The drift
from the sandhills and liberal dressings of
stable manure improved this patch consider-
ably. Another patch of heavy red country,
which would run together and form a hard
surface, was remedied to a. certain extent by
stable manure, and possibly dressings of
gypsum would further improve it. Another
patch of red soil adjacent will not hold the
moisture and is nibbly in character, and
seems to be without adhesive qualities. Then
there is a patch of grey soil, fluffy in appear-
ance, which is affected early by a dry spell.
This patch is not gypsum, of which there
are large deposits in the Mallee.
The yield of the sandhills might also be
increased; in the winter and early spring
months these hills in normal years are wet
and cold, and the wheat plant shows little
inclination to stool. It has, been suggested
that a dressing of sulphate of ammonia
might increase the stooling; but the trial
and the correct dressing are matters for the
future; at present we merely sow heavier
on the sandhills to offset the poor stooling.
Unfortunately, the importance of a Mallee
research-farm is not recognised by the pre-
sent Victorian Government, which has
shelved it on the grounds of economy.
These patchy paddocks are found in most
Mallee farms, and were the methods of reme-
dial treatment common knowledge among
the farmers the “optimum” yield could be
obtained, which would mean a material
increase in the average Mallee Crop.
WIDTH OF FURROWS.
Recent Canadian investigations have
shown that in most instances the wide fur-
row is just as effective as the narrow pro-
vided the work is equally well done. At
the Experimental Farm, Ottawa, the plougn-
ing of 16in. furrows gave practically as large
yields of corn and oats as did the ploughing
of Sin. furrows in sandy loam soil. On
heavy clay the yield of silage corn was almost
as great after wide as after narrow plough-
ing. In the case of oats, a slightly higher
yield, was obtained from the narrower fur-
row.
In the report of the Dominion Field Hus-
bandman for last year, published by _ the
Department of Agriculture at Ottawa, it is
shown that corn after sod gave 14.81 tons on
heavy clay and 21.52 tons on sandy soil
where the land had been ploughed in Sin.
furrows, as against 14.27 tons from heavy
clay and 20.48 tons on sandy loam where
the furrows had been 16 inches._ The oats
from the narrower ploughing yielded 57.2
bushels to the acre on heavy clay and 66.9
bushels on sandy loam, as against 52.7
bushels on heavy clay and 66.4 bushels on
sandy loam with 16in. furrows.
THE FARMER AND HIS TRADING
' ACCOUNTS.
“Gazer”: Generally speaking, the small
farmer’s weak point is accountancy. In
many cases he keeps no books at all. If he
lias an advance from the bank he gets only
what will pay current expenses, such as
wages, shire and P.P. Board rates and inci-
dental expenses. His store supplies and
other tradesmen’s accounts are run on yearly
credits, while his machinery is bought on the
t.-p. or hire system. Often he has to give a
lien on his crop and stock as security for the
store-keeping bill, and has to pay much higher
prices for his goods than he would on a cash
basis. When costs incidental to renewals
of p.n.’s and cost of lien are added, he pro-
bably pays anything from 15 to 20 per
cent, more than bank interest.
When the yearly settlement is made lie
wonders where the money goes and is
astounded at his spendings. He has kept
no account of his debts, and finds he has
spent more than he intended. This could be
largely modified by (1) an advance from the
bank, sufficient for all the requirements for
the year; (2) a simple system of book-
keeping by which the outgoings could be
continually checked. The latter would be a
safeguard against overcharges, which do
sometimes creep in when the accounts are
kept on only one side.
Taken on the whole, farming is not such
a bad game as a lot of Jeremiahs would have
us believe; and with reasonable skill on the
industrial side, and some method on the
financial, the farmer can be placed on a
reasonably good wicket, taking season in and
season out.
MILLET.
The N. S,. Wales Agricultural Department
has again drawn attention to the value of
millet as a summer catch crop. Given suit-
able conditions it is about the quickest-
growing of all farm plants.
It may be grown for hay, green fodder,
or to be fed off by stock —it is useful for
feeding to all classes of stock and poultry.
The crop may be fed off green and then
allowed to produce growth for hay. Where
it is fed off the stubble should be harrowed
to loosen the soil and conserve the moisture,
and in this manner a good second growth is
usually obtained. Owing to its sturdy habit,
millet has been found a splendid crop to
grow on foul land to get rid of the weeds.
The varieties recommended by the Depart-
ment are Japanese, Hungarian, Manchurian
(white and yellow), White French, and
Pearl. Japanese, by far the most grown, is
the best stooler; Hungarian is useful as a
hay variety, but is not a good stooler and
will not stand a dry weather pinch like
Japanese. Where grain is required the Man-
churian will be found the most prolific.
Millet obtains its nourishment chiefly from
the surface soil, and it is good farm practice
to stimulate the growth with readily assimil-
able fertilisers or rotted farm manure; the
fertilisers are best harrowed in, and the farm-
yard manure applied before ploughing.
From 81b. to 121 b. seed per acre is re-
quired, according to the fertility of the land-
Broadcasting is the usual method of sowing,
but for grain production or silage drilling
is advantageous. Where possible, sowing
should be carried out after rains or when
the soil is moist, to give the crop a start.
MAKING GOOD ENSILAGE.
“Borer”: In the recent dry season the
failure of many silos to open up well was
reported. It suggests that points which
should be observed have been neglected. The
main things are :
(1) Do not let the crop become over-ripe. Food
value is then diminishing. Nevertheless, give the
juices time to become fixed in the stem and the
leaf.
(2) Exclusion Of air is imperative. Whether m
pit or in silo, good packing is the essence of the
contract.
(3) Distribute the heavy and the light stuff so
that it binds together evenly and without any air-
suction processes. Leaf and stalk are also then
available in better proportion when required.
(4) Press the material in evenly and continuously.
Care should be taken not to overdo the pressing,
at the edges, otherwise the centre has more room
for depression, with a consequent tendency for the
stuff to draw away from the sides, thereby giving
a chance for air to be admitted or even sucked in.
PHOSPHATE DEFICIENCY.
“Yeoman”: Liebig's insistence upon the
supreme importance of phosphorus not ■ only
with regard to animal nutrition generally,
but aiso with regard to the physiological
functioning of every part of the animal sys-
tem, is emphasised by modern bio-chemical
research workers.
Professor Brailsford Robertson, of Ade-
laide, says that phosphoric acid performs
four distinct functions in the body. As an
integral constituent of nucleic acid, it enters
into the composition of the nucleus of every
cell in the body. It is involved in the
genetic elements of the nucleus, which are the
conveyors of characteristics from parent to
offspring, and forms an essential constituent
of one of the governing factors in develop-
ment. It is also an integral constituent of
the phospholipins. Although they are tats,
with the physical properties and solubilities of
fats, the phospholipins are also soluble in
water. When dissolved they are able to carry
other fats, not normally soluble, into solu-
tion.
Phosphoric acid is essential for the nor-
mal oxidation of carbohydrate and the pro-
duction of muscular energy. It plays, too, a
part in maintaining the neutrality of blood
and other tissue fluids. Finally, m the
form of tricalcic phosphate, it is an essential
element in the construction of bones —gen-
erally the only function which is made the
s-übjoct of investigation by students of ani-
mal nutrition. The other roles are, how-
ever, equally as important. A deficiency m
the dietary of an animal must be injurious
in many ways. .
Most Australian soils are notoriously
deficient in phosphoric acid, which is proved
by the response of cereal crops and pastures
to dressings of super. The growth of pastures
not top-dressed —except in certain areas —is
deficient in phosphorus. That deficiency is
communicated to the animals grazed on those
pastures. .
Phosphorus deficiency is more marked m
dry seasons .because there is less moisture
available to break down the phosphatic com-
pounds in the soil to that soluble condition
in which it is absorbed through the roots of
plants. The deficiency, apart from causing
general debility and untliriftiness, is respon-
sible for “coastal disease,” “pica” (depraved
appetite) and dry bible in cattle. A symptom
of the two latter diseases is bone-chewing.
In South Africa the remedy for, and pre-
vention of, diseases resulting from phosphorus
deficiency is to supply bone-meal. Tlieiler
records that young cattle depastured on de-
ficient country which were fed bonemeal at
the rate of 3oz. per day made an increase in
weight of 4431 b. Young cattle of the same
age grazing on the same pasture, but which
did not have access to bonemeal, made an
increase of only 1501 b.
It would probably be better if sterilised
bonemeal was added to the ration of stock
grazing on deficient pasture in lieu of a lick
containing mineral phosphate. The former
would supply more calcium. Ground tricalcic
phosphate, however, is used in Queensland in
hand-feeding sheep as a means of controlling
the amount of ration consumed from auto-
matic feedstuffs. The ration compounded by
Mr. J. L. Armstrong, of Corona station, and
approved by Prof. Brailsford Robertson, is
as follows: —
Ground maize . . •. • • • • • • 420 lb.
Bran .. • • • • • • • • • • 244 ~
Lucerne chaff . . ■ ■ • • • • • • 180 »
Ground rock phosphate . . .. ■ • 368 ~
Coarse salt .. . . • • ■ ■ •■.30 ~
The average daily amount of that mixture
eaten by sheep is each. That means
2oz. of ground phosphate per sheep per day.
Prof. Robertson says : “The phosphate rock
is harmless. It serves the incidental purpose
of supplying the deficiency of phosphoric
acid.” In a recent treatise on the subject
he stated: —
Phosphates cannot be absorbed to any appreci-
able extent from the stomach. On arrival in the
intestine, however, they meet an alkaline medium,
and, if lime be present, phosphoric acid will be
precipitated as di- or tricalcic phosphate, wholly
or in part, in proportion to the calcium present and
the degree of alkalinity. It is possible that a part
of the calcic phosphates may be held in suspension
by colloids. .. .and absorbed from the intestine in
a colloidal condition. Reduction of lime in the
diet will facilitate absorption.
That disposes of the? contention of “Logos”
(B. 25/9/’29) that mineral phosphate passes
through the animal without change.
However, it m 1 1?- be admitted that supply-
ing inorganic p paate in the ration or in
licks in phosphorus-deficient areas is not so
beneficial to the animal as supplying phos-
phates through the herbage by means of top-
dressing pastures with super.
POTASH FERTILISERS.
“Hop Scrub”: The danger in using
muriate of potash rather than the higher-
priced sulphate lies in the toxic effect of
chlorine in the soil resulting from repeated
applications of potassium chloride (muri-
ate). In districts of heavy rainfall this
danger would be small, which may hearten
canegrowers in regions such as Innisfail and
Babinda, but is not cheering to growers on
country of -barely sufficient fall such as
Buridaberg or Mackay. Further, the heavier
the dressings used the greater is the risk of
injury with the chloride.
The Vic. Department of Agriculture states
definitely that “potash should not be applied
artificially to a potato crop in any other
form than as the sulphate.” The chloride
will probably give increased yield, but the
tubers will be inferior in quality.
The form of potash used also has an
influence upon other elements of plant food,
such as the making available of phosphorus.
In most potash fertilisers there are more
than traces of other elements which too will
affect results.
In most instances in Europe and U.S.A.
where the muriate and the sulphate have
been used side by side the sulphate has
almost invariably given a more pronounced
response than the muriate.
Admittedly fertiliser experiments should
be conducted upon the actual location the
fertilisers are to operate upon. The newest
of the sciences, biometry, insists that the
treatments must be repeated numerous times
—up to 10—and that controls (untreated
plots) and treated plots must bo well distri-
buted throughout the whole area. Thereby
discrepancies due to soil variation may be
minimised and probable error reduced. Many
of our Australian results are based on the
old system of quarter-acre blocks and only
one control. That system furnished us‘with
a mass of useful empirical knowledge, but
much of the experimental work must be
done anew if we are to get exact knowledge.
WATERING FACILITIES FOR STOCK.
“U. Murray”: There can hardly be an-
other item of rural management (or mis-
management, rather) where so much easily-
avoidable loss occurs as from the failure to
provide proper drinking facilities for stock.
The average grazier is satisfied if _ there is
water in his paddocks, and is oblivious of
the very vital fact that the habits of all
stock are such that if there is a possibility
of defiling and destroying a water-supply,
defilement and destruction are certain.
In the case of sheep the trouble is made
much worse by their master-instinct of gre-
gariousness ; so that if a sheep can’t drink
with its companions it will do a perish till
the next return to the watering-place —which
will be about the same time next day. The
difficulty of watering sheep was driven hard
home upon my notice byi an incident I wit-
nessed last summer. I had a mob of sheep
in the best-watered hill-paddock (700 acres)
I know* of, there being two miles of
permanent water, with dozens of rock-lipped
pools, such as sheep especially delight to
drink from. Yet when these sheep were
driven down to the river* —a matter of a
mile or so—they were almost frantic m
their rush to the water on the beaches, some
jumping over river-banks Bft. high in their
hurry. Now, when sheep under these un-
usually favorable conditions behave like this,
how must the average animal fare with per-
haps only a chain or. two of filthy water
trickling about the pug-holes in a creek-
bottom? My own conviction is that more
suffering, with consequent loss of condition
(to say nothing of infection with dozens of
diseases), is caused by bad watering than
by bad feeding in those districts where creeks
and springs are depended upon.
The remedy, too, for all this widespread
trouble is cheaper and easier than that of
any other occasion of loss among stock
which one could instance. Trees from which
good, lengthy troughs could be cut with a
few hours’ work can be found throughout
the country; and with a few yards of second-
hand piping they are all that is required.
Provision for taking the overflow away is
just as simple and easy, and will largely
obviate the need for paving round the
troughs; though that is also well worth
attending to. Where this provision for the
adequate watering of stock (sheep especi-
ally) is carried out. I can safely promise
a profit of many hundred per cent, per
annum to the stock-owner for his outlay.
RAPE AND STOMATITIS.
“Deejay”: Anyone having rape for feeding
should use it without delay, as it soon
becomes coarse, running to seed, and the
heat brings the insects common to the tur-
nip family. This aphis pest causes stomati-
tis, especially in sheep: it sets up an irrita-
tion of the lips and mouth and portion of
the throat, which stops the animals from
feeding. Whilst rape is one of the best
things to top off with, it is also, when aphis-
affected, one of the quickest weight-reducers.
Once the complaint is seen, turn the animals
off on to new pasture without delay. Change
of feeding generally effects the cure, though
some stubborn cases need attention: bathe
with boracic lotion, Condy’s crystals, and
then dress with a little vaseline. But quick
change to other feed is the only way to
handle a big mob. Other animals are less
subject to the trouble, but dairy-cows are
best kept off it too, owing to the taint that
it sometimes gives milk at this time of
year. Badly infested crops should be ploughed
in at once. Rape is one of the best
(Continued on page 31.)


now more than a
MILLION
Frig'idaires
SO rapids so overwhelming is the popularity of Frigidaire that, on May 16
last, the millionth cabinet was built. To-day there are more Frigidaires in
use than all other makes of electric refrigerators combined. In small homes
and large—in flats, hotels, shops, ships, hospitals—wherever efficient refrigeration is
a constant need —Frigidaire will be found.
Examine a Frigidaire and you’ll understand why it is the world’s favorite. Take
Model D 4, for example. This is “the baby of the family,” and sells at a new
low price. The cabinet is strikingly handsome. The outside built of steel, finished
in enduring white duco—the seamless lining of the inside is porcelain enamel
—smooth and clean as a china plate. There is
plenty of room for large quantities of food and for
tall containers. The shelves are elevated to save
you stooping, and can be taken out and replaced
in a moment. The beautiful chromium-plated fittings
last for ever and will not tarnish.
All the mechanism is completely enclosed at the
bottom of the cabinet, as it should be —away from
dust and dirt. It works so quietly—that you can’t
hear it start, stop or run. It needs no attention,
week in, week out.
FRIGIDAIRE IS ENTIRELY AUTOMATIC, but,
to increase the great service it has always offered,
every household model now has 4 ‘Cold Control” —
the ingenious device that enables you to speed the
freezing of ice cubes and ices at will, and makes
possible dozens of new desserts, for which intense
cold or extra quick freezing is required.
You need Frigidaire, and now —at the start of
summer —is the time to buy. If you can, inspect
the full range of models —including D4 —at our
showrooms. If not, Write for Booklet B 2 and full
particulars of how you can have any model you
choose delivered to your home for a few pounds
deposit; the balance you may pay over a long
period on very generous terms.
DISTRIBUTORS.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 307-15 Kent Street, Sydney.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 380-82 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 233-35 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD., 172-74 Pulteney Street, Adelaide
STEWART & MACLEAN, LTD., 104 George Street, Launceston.
ii
Model D 4,
with Cold Control.
A
-a*
Ices quickly made with Cold Control.
M
m
Plenty of Ice Cubes—always.
Product of Genera! Motors
iiinmiiiNiiiiiiHiii
0
P
C
(0
ft
ZJ
iiiiininiiiiii
2 rT ®
» L Jiuiiii
jiiiiii.
I
IIIIIIIMIIIIf!


2 o
t-C r ~t
+> \J
. S nj
o
JM
o
-4->
CJ Mh
rt O
« i i
CO
’Oft J®
• »H <l)
o
fjg
3K"?
=l5
=: s
5 25i:
: _i» ;
<X3
£2*
m
FROM the day that Old Court Whisky was first placed
upon the market, its distillers had a great faith in
its future.
They knew that the time would come when it would be
the most popular brand of whisky sold in Australia.
They backed their faith by rolling away vast stocks to
mature in the wood for the benefit of users in the years
to come.
How sound that far-sighted policy has proved to be!
To-day, with Old Court sales at a record high peak, and
still rising, the vast reserves accumulated long ago, assure
for Australia, a whisky of wonderful mellowness and full
maturity. ■ ,
To-day, there are more Bottles of Old Court Whisky sold m
Australia than of any other single brand of whisky on the market!
No whisky offers you as much as Old Court: quality,
age, matchless purity, fine flavor, and—whether you
think of it or not—the truest value in the world.
UlTuskti
fjfic Vorlcfr Purest,
AND NOW THE NATION’S FIRST FAVORITE!


The Sportsman’s Brogue
Heavy-soled, broadly welted, and
as tough and pliant as a stout
leather shoe can be made, this
handsome Abbey Brogue is
exceptionally comfortable.
It fits easily at all points. The
lacing is on a curve to lie with-
out strain over the instep arch.
The sides are low-cut, the heel
non-chafing. No breaking-in is
necessary—the foot muscles are
allowed full play.
Three widths per size
Ensuring exact fit. . . .you can
choose narrow, medium or wide
in each full and half size.
ORDER BY POST: State width
as well as size and ask also for
the correct Abbey Polish (6d.
per tin).
TAN CALF -
BLACK CALF
- 45/-
- 39/6
Enlarged catalogue of men’s, women’s and
children’s footivear post free on request.
ABBEY
Established over SO years
313 George Street, and 224 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
FPL 148.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
:
mm
1
BRITISH
MADE
Perfection.
PITTR RUBBER.
Cowboy
Specials
The TOM MIX
OUTFIT.
Saddle made on
genuine Ameri-
can tree,
£l3/10/-
Hat . £2/10/-
Belt 25/-
Lariat . . 27/6 !
Chaps,
£4/10/-
The Bulletin
Write for new Catalog and photo of
Tom Mix free.
JOHN BRUSH,
The Saddle Specialist,
BRISBANE, Q.: 434 Queen Street.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: 371 George Street.
'r *T\
icura 50305
MEDICIHALor TOIL
The Right Soap
For Baby’s Skin
In the care of baby’s tender skin
Cuticura Soap is the mother’s fav-
orite. Not only is it unrivaled in
purity and refreshing fragrance but its
gentle emollient properties are usually
sufficient to allay minor irritations
and promote skin health.
Soap Is., Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment address:
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.”
SPiP"” Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/-per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
F|robate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
CHANDLER’S VERANDAH BLINDS
i
6ft. x Bft.
17/6
9ft. x Bft.
25j6
12ft. x Bft.
32/6
each.
CHANDLER’S VERANDAH BLINDS are made in our own factory under the
supervision of experts who have spent years in perfecting their craft. They
are sent out complete with top batten, heaVy bottom roller, single and
double pulley straps, cord and staples.
The special line of blinds quoted above is made only in the 3 sizes and is
obtainable in English White or Green or Brown block striped duck.
Prices of other sizes and qualities will be sent on application together with
samples if desired.
Prices are Free on Rails, Melbourne.
D. & W. CHANDLER, LTD.
BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY, VICTORIA.
cleaners and soil renovators out. When
turned in, leave it to completely rot; stem
and roots take a good while to decay.
HOW AND WHEN TO DIP CATTLE.
“Coolibah”: In the years that have flown
since the imported cattle tick first swept down
the Queensland coast, leaving its trail of
trouble, the old hands have mostly learnt
how best to deal with the affliction, but from
time to time very serious losses occur
through the inexperience of new settlers.
This is more particularly the case in areas
outside the recognised infested districts.
Sporadic incursions of ticks into areas
usually tick-free send men rushing to stamp
out the pest, often with disastrous results.
Frequently the mixture is much too strong,
which fact proclaims itself about two days
after the dipping, the beast suffering acutely.
The stomach swells; moisture like clear
liquid is exuded, dripping from the body;
the hide dries and cracks in sections,* eventu-
ally lifting off in hand-wide pieces; blind-
ness often supervenes; and, in the worst
cases, death.
Let no arsenical cattle-dip contain more
than 21b. dissolved white arsenic to each
lOOgal. water; 111 b. will kill ticks, and more
than 21b. will kill cattle. Dissolve the arsenic
in double its quantity of ordinary washing-
soda and boil in an old ink-drum for 20
minutes. The soda is merely required as a
solvent to the arsenic. If caustic soda is
used, will dissolve 21b. arsenic, and the
mixture will boil itself by chemical action
without a fire. This is the least trouble-
some. To the mixture add soap, bone oil,
or other emulsifying agent. These have a
softening influence and give tho dip a higher
wetting power. Then, to make quite sure, send
a sample to the Stock Departmeiit for. free
analysis, and, if over the strength above men-
tioned, break it down before use. Where
spraying is resorted to instead of dipping, and
only small quantities are, involved, it pays
best to use one of the many excellent mix-
tures on. the market, with which instruc-
tions for use are issued.
The Stock Department recommends dip-
ping at intervals of 18 days. This is the life
period of the tick, and if such a course could
be universally pursued and no stock missed,
Ixodes hovis would soon be off the map. Most
stock-owners in infested country, doubting
the possibility of complete eradication, pre-
fer to have him on the premises in limited
numbers to provide their stock with, natural
inoculation, thus preserving their dearly
bought immunity from redwater. They,
therefore, generally dip at intervals of from
four to eight weeks, according to the season
and prevalence of the pest.
Now for the most important warning.
Let no man who values his stock dip them
twice in the space of a week. The most
serious losses have occurred through dip-
ping twice in the space of a few days. At
Kingaroy a few years ago a man killed
90 bullocks by dipping them one day, driv-
ing them 17 miles the day after, and dipping
again on the third day at the order of a
stogk inspector. I myself, when learning
the game years ago, killed a mob of cows
by the same method. I have seen a bull,
a good hurdler, joining successive mobs, get
dipped three times in an hour without injuri-
ous effect. To have dipped him again a
day later would have killed him.
THE CULTIVATION OF ORCHARDS.
“XSA”: I agree with “Specker” (B.
9/10/’29) that cultivation of fruit trees
should be completed at least three weeks
prior to blooming. But he questions whether
cultivation of bearing trees is advisable at
all.
There can be no general rule of horticul-
ture in any country of size, where climatic,
soil and rainfall features are varied, except-
ing that of thorough cultivation; and even
this varies with conditions and the type of
trees. Under the best possible conditions
citrus-trees must be kept well worked. To
neglect this is to invite ruin. The same
applies to grapes, peaches, plums and other
warm-country fruits. Apples and pears, on
the other hand, arei not open to vital injury,
and this because of their deep-rooting nature.
It does not, however, follow that the trees
will thrive if culturally neglected.
Nothing is better than ploughing in green
leguminous crops. It will have the double
effect of keeping the soil loose and open, and
providing the necessary nitrogen. It is a
natural method of soil replenishment, and
adds only seed cost to the working expenses.
The “sod surface” sometimes advocated
actually means a hard surface; this is cer-
tainly easier for the spray-cart and the van
when harvesting, but against this is the
supreme danger of insect and pest harborage.
No grower of repute would take that risk.
So far as fruit color is concerned, neg-
lected trees will almost invariably yield the
best quality fruit, but never to a profitable
extent —and always as the last expiring
effort.
TOMATO WILT.
“Alf Alpha”: The statement made by
“Yeoman” (B. 25/9/’29) that the Waite
Institute (S.A.) has discovered that tomato
wilt is caused by thrip inoculation is not
correct, or, rather, if the Institute makes
the claim, it is stealing someone else’s
thunder.
C. C. Brittlebank (pathologist) and C.
French (entomologist), of the Vic. Depart-
ment of Agriculture, were the first to put
forward this theory (many years ago, when
wilt first made its appearance in Victoria),
as the result of experiments conducted
at the Burnley Horticultural Gardens (Vic.).
A peculiar feature of the disease is the
abundancy of nitrates in the affected plants,
and a case can be quoted where several flood-
ings of the soil to wash out the excess
nitrates, combined with intensive pruning
(right to the stalk) of the affected plants,
resulted in 100 per cent, clean plants, and an
excellent crop.
The trouble appears to be due to the years
of forcing—growing a plant out of season—
having some obscure effect on the seed.
With the high nitrification of the soil
and subsequent concentration of the nitrates
in the plant, particularly the extremities,
the plant endeavors to turn out the excess
nitrates, but the high rate of transpiration
renders this impossible, and the consequent
concentration of salts burns wherever and
whenever it happens—sometimes on the leaf,
other times down the stem, but always at
the extremities where the action arises.
I do not know how to stop the wilt. 1
only wish I did. But potash sulphate and
Epsom salts—a teaspoon of each per plant—
have a retarding effect, provided you do
not over-manure with nitrogen in the early
stages of growth, or at all.
SISAL GROWING.
“Tangaloli”: “W.P.D.” (B. 18/9/’29),
advocating the growing of sisal hemp, says
the first year’s harvest should be over a ton
of fibre per acre. That sounds good, but
sisal requires four to five years' growth after
planting to produce such a harvest, and dur-
ing those years it requires weeding about
twice a year. Then after being cut for about
four or five years it will pole and be no more
useful, and the laud must be replanted or a
strong sucker allowed to grow ready to take
the old plant’s place and the old plant done
away with. I know —-I have had some years’
experience in sisal-growing in Fiji.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Bodangora”: A good warm rug on a cold
night is better for a horse than a dose of
medicine next day.
“Mallee”: I know no better cure for
stinkwort poisoning than to dilute 16 drops
sulphuric acid in a glass of water and bathe
the affected parts—usually arms or legs—
three or four times a day.
“Penfield”: If the sow seems to be starving
her litter, add four tablespoons Epsom salts
to her feed of warm milk and pollard or other
ground feed. She will do all the better if
the udder is massaged, too.
“E.I-1.M.”: Old potatoes that have beer,
in the ground from the previous season will
supply sufficient moisture to pumpkin,
melon and cucumber seeds during the dry
weather and keep them moving. Break off
the shoots to prevent the potato from grow-
ing, and put one in each hole where the
seeds are planted.
“Jack Point” : Aluminium paint is handy
for brightening things up about the kitchen,
but it is no use applying it externally unless
the gate or other article to be painted has
previously been well done with red oxide.
Apply a couple of good coats, and allow it
to stand for three or four months before
applying the aluminium paint; then give
two coats and keep a bit on hand for a
touch-up whenever necessary.
“Bonzo” : Testing over a period of years
I have found blood and bone useless as an
apple-fertiliser, and in many cases injurious.
Last year, on a bed of 150 Carringtons, I
gave 50 blood and bone, 50 stable- and fowl-
litter and the remainder nothing at all. All
the litter-treated trees bore lustily, those left
alone carried an average crop, the fertilised
50 under average. The soil is sandy loam.
“Hayband”: Can’t understand “Pekoe’s”
objection (B. 9/10/’29) to iron wedges in
an axe. He admits that an iron-wedged
handle fits so tightly that it can be removed
only by burning, but says this spoils the
temper of the blade. If the head is driven
into wet earth the blade will still be cold
when the small fire necessary to loosen the
handle has done its job. .
“F.A.”: Stock, particularly cattle, which
have become blown through eating fresh
green feed to excess, or directly after a spell
on dry feed, can be deflated generally by
painting their nostrils with Stockholm tar.
I used this plan when half a dozen heifers
had broken into a growing crop and doubled
their girths. In five hours all were normal.
If a tendency to lick the nostrils is shown,
tie a strip of bagging over the tongue and
under the jaw. ■,
“Swanson”: If your garden sou is inclined
to be sticky, work it only when fairly dry.
The best way to improve such a soil is to
sow down with Lotus augustissimus or blue
lupins in the autumn. Dig this crop in
(I write from Maoriland, of which alone 1
have had experience) some time during
August or September, and the plot will be
ready for planting by November. lhe L.
augustissimus is the easiest green-manui e
crop to dig in and rots more quickly than
lupins. A clay patch can be transformed
into a deep dark-brown loam in a few years
by this method. „ , •
“Bodangora”: Keep these for first-aid in
the stable: For colic, U pints raw linseed
oil, 4oz. turpentine to add to the oil; lib.
baking soda (bi-carbonate) and lib. Epsom
salts for engorgement from eating wheat; 1
pint kerosene to mix with 3 quarts soapy
water for water gripes (retention of urine) ;
6oz. spirits of ether nit., for cold or fever.
Drench through the mouth always. Soapsuds
injection is always good for colic.
“Jack Point” : To keep chicks from toe-
picking, try supplying salt at the rate of
loz to 81b. of mash after the birds are about
a week old. Care should be taken to mix
the salt thoroughly with the water or milk
which is being used to mix the mash, be-
cause it takes surprisingly little salt to kill
a chick, and an uneven mixing of the mineral
may be disastrous. But, whilst the sa.t
should certainly be added to the ration,
there is still a lot in some poultrymen’s con-
tention that the habit of toe-picking starts
because the little beggars must do something
to relieve the monotony. Therefore, arrange
your pens so that they will never just stand
round doing nothing. Feed should be given
little and often; water, grit, greenstuff bone-
meal, charcoal should be always available m
hoppers—in fact, things so managed that
the chicks are always either feeding or
scratching round for more.
“Wrash”: The branding-frame advocated
by “Muscles” (B. 9/10,/’29) is first-class for
branding, but useless for the other opera-
tions. The contention that only poddied
calves may be man-handled will be ridiculed
on many cattle-breeding stations, where the
thing is done with all sorts habitually.
“Jack Point” : Recent experiments in feed-
ing grit to poultry suggest that the belief
that grit is necessary to help the birds grind
their food is a myth. The experiments were
made with birds from week-old up to full-
grown in full-lay, and the birds which had
access to grit neither grew, laid nor fattened
better than those from which it was with-
held. Nevertheless, oyster-shell grit or
other forms of lime should never be in
short supply, or the hen will draw on her
own limited supply for the formation of
shells, with disastrous results.


i.y.
&
-3
N>
A*
•*?#
s?
5,0
Or
c#
Telegraphic, Cable and Wireless Address:
“Austraotel, Sydney.”
Delightful phases of the art
of living—unexpected comforts
and surprising features—atmo-
sphere and resources that are
rightfully world-famous. . . .
A magnificently - illustrated
booklet tells of the manifold
attractions that await you at
“The Australia” write for
your copy if you are coming to
Sydney.
SMOKE-OH!
The Little Digger has certainly dug him-
self in.
* *
The Week’s Tactless Idiot: the man who
mentioned arbitration in Bligh-street.
OH, THAT’S MOTHER AGAIN!
“And good-night, Mrs. Climah —my husband and I have enjoyed
your party awfully.”
“Oh now, now, dear, that’s very nice of you, but I’m sure it has
been dull. The weather kept all our best people away."
“Called to an operation, Dr. Poate, of Sydney,
went to Moree by special train run at a cost of
£140.”
He’s no Bolshie, yet he certainly has his
knife into the capitalists.
X X
“Ever kept a tame spider?”—World’s News.
No, we haven’t; but there are some' who
would give it a fly.
X X
THE HINT.
“Music quite carries me away,”
The lore observed. In hopeful tone
The girl cried “Does it now? Hooray!”
And started up the gramophone.
Our clerical friend hopes that Theodore as
Treasurer will exchange Dr. Earle Page’s
white sheet for a surplus.
* ¥
Statisticians declare that the tenth year
of matrimony is the most dangerous. Others
plump for the year immediately preceding
the first.
¥ *
HIS MISTAKE .
“Be sure and read between the lines,” they
said,
“And undreamt facts will penetrate your
head.” .
Now o’er his grave moan cypresses and pines.
He tried to read between the railway lines.
» *
“The secret of success in farming lies in the irri-
tation of the land.”—Evening News.
Failure, on the other hand, causes the
irritation of the owner.
x x
“Sheep fell on his heavy eyelids.”— Sunday News.
It shows the danger of counting them
to cure insomnia.
“Verdict for plaintiff, £250.”— Vic. breach report.
This is the billing that follows the cooing.
* *
“Urgent measures!” said the toper con-
temptuously, looking up from the Parlia-
mentary report. “Bah! Look at the really
important ones they pull for you every even-
ing at two minutes to six!”
* *
“A1 Jolson is known as ‘the jazz singer with a
tear in his voice.’ ” —Sydney News.
Still, the tearing sound that A1 makes
hasn’t the file-like quality of most talkie
singers.
Si At
“A man in France has been married nine times.
He is red-headed.”
It certainly ought to be rend.
Though warned that the end was near,
Mr. Henpeck rejected the consolations of
religion. “I don’t want to go to Heaven,'
he explained. “I’d bud my late wife there
harping a.s usual on my misdeeds.”
* X
“Went quite thin with worrying over the loss of
the jewellery.”—Sun.
Imagine losing a stone or so over losing
a stone or so!
V -V
“Surrounded by bottles, he slept in the sunlight.'’
—Storyteller.
Happy daze !
* *
“A discussion has arisen as to when women’s work
in offices began.”
The office bear says it is after she has
powdered her nose, had a cigarette, made
a cup of tea and finished the book she was
reading on the tram.
ANOTHER VICTIM OF MAN’S SELFISHNESS.
“Sorry, missus, we borrowed yer canary to see ; if it was
safe to go in where the gas leak is, and it wasn’t.”
“The recent election campaign was short.”
This is true. Especially did those lawyers
who specialise in libel and slander work find
it a brief period.
[For matter requiring a signature, J. B. Dailey,
214 George-street, Sydney, shares the blame with
J. E. AY ebb, same address.]
GRANNY’S TALE.
(CONTAINING A MORAL FOR CHILDISH
CURSERS.)
“In reply to the Sun's charge that, during the
debate on the Crimes Bill, ‘the Government benches
were an arid desert of upholstery,’ Mr. Bavin said
that he and his colleagues were unable to sit and
listen to the bad language of the Opposition.”
Come, children, gather round my knees
And listen while I tell
Of M.L.A.’s and M.L.C.’s
(As Gnashers we’ll refer to these)
Who hated words like “h—ll,”
And of the loathly Laborese.
Non: hark to what befel.
To save the country was their aim.
When they had time to spare
They would exchange abuse and blame.
The Labs. (/ mention it with shame)
While doing so would swearj
Their foes, too pure to do the same,
Used just to sit and glare.
“What came of it?” you ask, my dears.
And well, my dears, you may.
The Labs, swore on. The Gnashers’ sneers,
Shocked protests and regretful tears
Proved fruitless. One fine day,
In justice to their outraged cars
The Gnashers ran away.
Picture the scene! The battle line
With half its fighters fled!
No Rupert of Debate could shine,
No Job of gross injustice whine;
The hearts of thousands bled
To see such things—including mine.
The country fell down dead.
10-2-4.
WHEN AUSSIE MEETS AUSSIE.
“The marble entrance of Australia House is obtain-
ing- an unsavory reputation as a rendezvous of confi-
dence men. Several squatters have been robbed of
all they have. Scotland Yard has informed the
Australian Press Association that there are few
people as clever as Australians at taking each
other down.” — Cable.
A stout, elderly man stood outside Aus-
tralia House in the steady rain of a perfect
London day, and peered through the log.
Beside him was an emaciated sheep.
Amongst the animal’s many defects were
footrot, pinkeye and an almost complete
absence of wool.
“See a little red-headed cove named Ottie
Falkiner anywhere?” inquired the animals
companion.
“I thought he was in Australia.
“Not at all. He sold me a thousand ot
these at a fiver each, cash down Said Id
make a fortune out of them, and that he d be
back to-day to return my money if 1 didn t.
They’re all dead but this one,. and Ottie
seems to have forgotten the appointment.
“Are you sure it was Mr. Falkiner ?
“Absolutely. He said so.”
A faint sigh attracted our attention, llie
sheep was unobtrusively expiring on the pave-
ment. Its owner looked regretful.
“I’m afraid Ottie will be upset about this,
he said. “However, it’s his funeral. I shall
insist on being repaid.” H'e brightened up.
“Come and look at the horse I bought from
John Brown. Know John Brown? A hand-
some young chap, rather like a Guards
subaltern.” . . . ■ ,
With profound misgivings I examined the
horse. Wmdgalls, spavins, curbs, straiglit
shoulders, a bent
back suggestive of
advanced years—•
these were but a
few of its more
obvious demerits.
“By Ga 11 e e
More out of Tetra-
tema,” observed its
owner. “A pros-
pective Derby win-
ner. As a fellow-
Aussie John let me
have him for a
couple of thou-
sand.”
A prominent Aus-
tralia House offi-
cial loomed out of
the fog. He saluted
my acquaintance
respectfully. The
latter, with a
cheerful wave of
the hand, disap-
peared through the
marble portals of
the Common-
wcalth’s £1,000,000
possession.
“Good old Brig!”
said the official
warmly.
“Don’t tell me
I’ve been talking
to General Ryrie.”
“Of course. But
you must excuse
me. W. L. Bail-
lieu and George
Judah Cohen are
waiting in the hall
with a St. Kilda
diamond-mine pro-
position. Remarkably nice boys. They’re
going to put me on to their tailor as well
as make my fortune. We’re all making for-
tunes here. It’s something in the Aus-
tralia House air.”
MAX F.
UNUSUAL EVENT OF THE WEEK.
The leaders of the community assembled
at the Sydney Sun’s new building on Mon-
day night to celebrate the successful launch-
“NIX ON THE LOOPING, BILL! I’VE JUST PUT ON THE
PORRIDGE!”
ing of tile Sunday Guardian. The reunion
gave Mr. Bruce a much-appreciated oppor-
tunity to thank both papers for their assist-
ance during the late election. Messrs.
Bavin, Lang and Garden came along to-
gether after a quiet meal at the Australian
Club. , ,
The guest of honor was unfortunately late,
having accepted the offer of a lift from Can-
berra in Mr. W. M. Hughes’s car. During
the unavoidable wait H.E. the State Gover-
nor touched, as well as enthralled, those
present by liis monologue, “Labor Premiers
I have Known and Loved.” , , „ ,
After the editor of the Sun had offered
to suspend publication of his
company’s Sunday organ, or,
alternatively, to accept 97
additional pages of adver-
tisements per issue in order
to improve the Guardian’s
chances of establishing itself
(an offer which the editor of
the Guardian chivalrously
declined), there was a plea-
sant little ceremony. It
took the form of the presen-
tation to Mr. Bruce by his
Excellency of a bound
volume of Mr. Hughes’s
more recent speeches, illus-
trated by Sun election car-
toons. In the course of a
happy address, Sir Dudley
disclosed that he had recom-
mended Mr. Garden for a
knighthood, and that his
Majesty (ever an admirer
of their old friend’s Empire
work) had been pleased to
grant the honor.
Mr. Garden, in response
to insistent cries of
“Speech!” from Mr. Bruce
and others, said that Ms dis-
tinction came as a great surprise, and that
he accepted it with gratitude, as a recogni-
tion of his work for Rotary.
The gathering broke up to the strains of
“Onward, Christian Soldiers.”
BLOGGS.
FORGE OF HABIT.
The car I’ve bought is second-hand.
It has a funny feel
And does not seem to understand
My two hands at the ivheel.
It slows right down at ev’ry maid
We meet, to my surprise;
And always in the deepest_ shade
The engine coughs and dies.
STRUTT.
IN DARLINGHURST.
In Darlinghurst (so I am told) the razor
gangsters have their hold; swift cocaine-
• runners scatter snow, and murderers stroll
to and fro. There none lives chastely and
alone, and no man’s wedded wife’s his own.
The very clerics hesitate the local code to
violate
Jazz parties turn
night into day,
and jazzers shot in
every way—with
automatics, beer
and snow —onward
to black perdition
gO-
- yet—l live
in Darlinghurst:
I’m fond of fun
and nurse a thirst.
Though gramo-
phones are seldom
stilled, I’ve never
seen a person
killed. I read the
yarns the papers
spread, but no-
thing but the place
seems dead. Where
gilded vice throws
round its splosh I
cart my laundry
to the wash, or
wander out to have
my chop, nod to
the cheerful traffic
cop, purchase a
bottle and a spot,
and buy a paper.
In my cot I then
proceed to read the
stuff (which most-
ly, in my view, is
bluff) about the horrors that transpire within
this place of evil fire, and reckless and
Satanic glee, that seems so deadly dull to me.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.
THE AWAKENING.
I met her at a dance, and bliss
That .evening was my lot, _
And when at last I stole a kiss
The whole world I forgot.
I took her out to teas and. shows,
Also for walks and drives.
I looked with sympathy on those
Who knew not sweethearts’ lives.
I married her. My tale is told.
Here ended, my romance.
I’d like to kill the man who sold
Me tickets for that dance.
DORIC.


Immediate
and phenomenal
success Justifies
the quality cf
ECLUB
mm
mm
V
mx
■Hr*
A
...
MpF'
o
agg*
«>
iimr
c
(D;>r&:'r
iW
0
;Sj@
/ '
sss
- r
L
<5
a*
%
v
S®
£
>S
5=
tf
0
£
13
£Q
e&i
>f
0*.O;.
SO;.
RFICTHOf
\
KJEVER before in the history of Australia has a whisky been ac-
corded such an instantaneous and overwhelming success by
the entire Commonwealth as McCallum's Perfection Scots Whisky.
5 “ Perfection ” has justified its name in every way. In its high
quality ... mellowed mildness ... its stopper cork ... its aluminium
drinking >cup! So mellow is McCallums Perfection Scots Whisky
that it is appreciated even when taken “ neat.” 5 Beyond every-
thing though, is the guarantee that the House of McCallum will
maintain the quality give you constantly the same whisky
which has been the pride of Scotland since 1807. 5 These
things have made McCallum’s Perfection Scot’s Whisky Austra-
lia’s fovourite whisky. Call for it by name in the hotel, the
bottle store, or at your club
MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
Sole Distributors for the House of McCALLUM.
M ( CALLUMI
PERFECTION SCOTS WHISKY!


OTYii
6.0.A.6aa.
4
wheel internal*
expanding hy*
draulic brakes
5
50 (five:fifty)
oversize
balloon tvres
6
cylinder high-
compression
engine
7
bearing, 52 -lb.
highly balanced
crankshaft
8
inch deep
chassis frame
in the NBW
DODGE BROTHERS SIX
CHRYSLER MOTORS PRODUCT
The new Dodge Brothers
Six is an extraordinary
motor-car because it
embodies so many features
that are extraordinary for
a car of anything like its
price.
The Dodge Brothers
hydraulic 4-wheel inter-
nal - expanding brakes, the
over -size 5:50 tyres, the
52-pound 7 -bearing
dynamically and statically
balanced crankshaft, the
extra-deep 8-inch frame
are conspicuous among the
things that cannot be
matched by any other
cars neighboring on the
new Dodge Brothers Six
price.
Come into our salesroom
and see the new Dodge
Brothers Six; try it on the
road. If you inspect and
drive one of these remark-
able cars, we have all the
confidence in the world
that you will never be
content until you own one.
IT
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales
Victoria . . Canada Cycle & Motor
Queensland
Harden & Johnston, Ltd., Sydney
Co. (Vic.) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane
South Australia . .
Western Australia
Tasmania .......
Waymouth Motor Company, Ltd., Adelaide
. . Winterbottom Motor Company, Ltd., Perth
Co-operative Motors, Ltd., Hobart


i. s
...... ?
Cruising to
JAVA and
SUMATRA
First-class round fare to Belawan
Deli (Sumatra), calling at Java ports,
Singapore and Penang: From Brisbane
and Sydney, £99; from Melbourne,
£lO5.
The K.P.M. invites you to wonder and wander in Java and
Sumatra, islands of exotic attractions.
Glorious days at sea, the comforts and conveniences of the
great Liners Nieuw Holland and Nieuw Zeeland will be a
delightful holiday for you.
The steamer is your hotel for the round voyage of seven weeks.
Full particulars from
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION COMPANY
(K.P.M. Line),
255 George Street, Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., 11l William Street, Melbourne; Dalgety & Co., Brisbane;
F.lrlpi- Smith & Co. Adelaide and Perth.
HAIL!
HOBART!
Hobart is calling you!
Hobart, with its wealth of
untold scenic beauty and
bracing climate, never
calls in vain to those want-
ing a real holiday.
Unrivalled in its offering
of spectacular wonders,
the charm of its old-
world villages and the
spell of its vast new-world
industries make Tasmania
the most desirable holiday
place of Australia—and
Hobart is its headquarters.
Consult the
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAU,
Ocean House, 34 Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
IT is immediate ease you require.
Zam-Buk is splendid for quickly
subduing the pain. Only, after dress*
ing with Zam-Buk, be sure to quickly
cover up with lint to exclude air.
Zam-Buk is remarkably soothing
to the painful skin. It comforts and
cools and takes out all ‘fire' and irri-
tation. Being highly antiseptic,
Zam-Buk kills bad germs and thus
prevents formation of pus, festering
and poisoning. Zam-Buk soon covers
up the broken tissues with a growth
of new healthy skin.
You may need Zam-Buk at any moment.
Keep it always handy for cuts, bums, scalds,
eczema, ulcers, bad legs, poisoned wounds,
ringworm, scalp disease, piles, etc.
•amßuk
1/6 box & 3/6 family size. All chemists.
Hand finished to
ensure perfection
The finishing touches given to every
Kropp Razor before it is sent out from the
works are an essential part of the opera-
tions to produce this perfect instrument.
The Kropp Razor is entirely British and is
the product of skilled Sheffield craftsmen.
\
1,1 1.1
Hie
ALL-BRITISH
KROPP
- never requires grinding
Black, Ivory or Xylonite handles. From the usua' dealers.
AVOID SUBSTITUTES: Every genuine Kropp
stamped "Made and ground in Sheffield, England."
Wholesale only: OSBORNE GARRETT & CO., LTD., London, England.
Pen and Picture
The
STATE
THEATRES
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
Shadow Shows
British Dominions Films invited criticism
when they started their campaign to give
the Empire home-made talkies with “Black
Waters.” This play was made in America,
an English producer crossing the Atlantic
expressly to put it on. Apart from the
fact that some of the principals are un-
mistakably American, it shows the usual
indications that its spiritual home is Holly-
wood. It is a mystery story which begins
in a jazz-cabaret, with sundry sinister
creatures passing inexplicable warnings to
one another; gravitates to a fog-enveloped
wharf where longshoremen converse in pene-
trating whispers with fashionable people;
finally discovers itself afloat on a hulk and
in an atmosphere of terror calculated to
make your flesh creep if you are prone
to that form of cutaneous exercise. “Black
Waters” is a sanguinary plot from the pen
of John Willard, who perpetrated “The Cat
and the Canary.” B.D.F. is hereby pushed
off under the First Offenders Act, to come up
for judgment later.
In “The Lost Patrol” (British Dominions
Films) a party of soldiers is crossing the
desert in Mesopotamia. There are 11 of
them culled from different occupations. Occu-
pations obligingly shown in turn. Leader
is shot. He carried the maps in his head.
Party gets lost, and finds an oasis, where it
sits and wrangles while the encompassing
Bedouins pick the members off by degrees.
Enemy creeps nearer as party wrangles over
digging the next grave. Corporal Bell is
shot and Private Abelson takes command.
Sweating, quarrelling and digging of graves.
A member suffering from religious mania
takes his uniform off and runs into the
desert. He and a companion who goes to
recapture him are both shot, and there is
more quarrelling, perspiring and digging of
graves. The remnant exchange home pictures
in order to forget their plight and enable
the producer to flick on some close-ups of
pretty girls. And so the picture plods
laboriously on until there is only one sur-
vivor, an escaped murderer apparently
(opportunity for a flashback showing cabaret
brawl). He lies thinking of mother and
toying with a battery of concealed guns
which he works by pulling hidden ropes in
the sand. He gets the range by intuition and
picks off nine little nigger boys, but forgets
there were ten. The tenth finishes him off
and he dies in jerks spread out on the desert
sand. This dull film appears to be an
attempt to get in on the ground floor of the
present boom in realistic tales about the
war, and it has been hailed locally as the
screen equivalent of “Journey’s End.”
Writer failed to see any connection.
“Dangerous Curves” (Paramount) brings
Clara Bow and the circus on to the screen.
Clara, offsider to an equine act, falls heavily
in love with Larry Lee, a wire-something
CLARA BOW.
(on the talkie
it sounds like
“w o r. k e r”).
Larry bends
the course of
true love by
sharing his
drink - soaked
heart with
Zara, one of
liis supernum-
eraries on the
w i r- e. T h e
spectacle , of
'• e r sharing
her little
heart with an-
other super-
numera r y,
coupled with a
bit too much
out of the
bottle, sends
Larry crash-
ing from the
top of the
tent; but in-
stead of his
being scraped
off the sawdust, as the fake photography
leads a casual onlooker to believe is inevit-
able, he is carried off with a broken rib.
Zara at once flies off with the other wire-
worker ; Larry flies off with whisky, and
the circus flies off to the next town and
leaves him to it. That is Clara’s chance.
She flies off and brings Larry back.
That would be a fair end to the picture if
Zara did not fly back also and Larry at
once return to her. However, Zara’s further
slip, aided by more whisky, brings Larry
round, and Clara’s vulgar little love affair
is over. There are incredibilities, including
Clara’s impersonating on the wire of her
boozy beau; but altogether the picture,
crammed with everything of the circus but
the smell, is good entertainment.
The flesh and blood theatre cannot com-
pete with the screen in such shows as
“Honeymoon” (M.-G.-M.), at any rate. The
principal actor is a handsome dog and his
acting is superb, even if he maintains the
-same benign countenance all the way
through. The only attempt this Showman
has seen on the legitimate stage to make a
.canine act a part instead of merely a walk-
on on a string was in “Dracula,” and it
was a horrible farce. The animal was
ostensibly a were-wolf, and its business was
to suck the blood from Bertha Riccardo’s
neck. On the night thid scribe saw the
foolish thing, the were-wolf hopped through
the window O.K. and even went so far as
to search for the lump of sugar secreted
in the vicinity of Miss Riccardo’s jugular
vein. But a shriek of horror went up from
the audience and it spoilt the show. The
were-wolf looked round in surprise and
immediately became a mere hound somewhat
fed up with an idiotic and incomprehensible
job.
The Palette
L. Gill, doyen of Melbourne art dealers,
has h 1 ? 1,0 than a dealer’s interest in the
exhibition of Hans Heysen’s pictures now
hanging in the Gill Galleries. It was he
who suggested the Flinders Range to Hey-
sen as a new painting ground not difficult
to come at. Gill saw it travelling down from
Marree (formerly Hergott’s Springs) to
Quorn; the grim rampart of dog’s-tooth
mountains is 250 miles long, and the train
skirts it all day. Ileysen equipped a motor-
truck and went after the quarry first in
1926. He paints near-by slopes' a furious
red, like the rusty kerosene-tin background
to Aden; he also draws an extraordinarily
beautiful veil of blue-bag mist over the dis-
tant ridges, setting a sky as fragile as a
soap-bubble oyer all. Ileysen, who has some-
what old-fashioned realism, which recognises
no unity of light, but searches every shadow
for its present detail, works to better advan-
tage amongst these gaunt creases in the desert
than amongst his grapes, apples and camellias.
The odd little picture reproduced here tells
its own story of the exhibition of oils, chiefly
illustrating Biblical incidents, hanging over
the name of Ahron Halevy, a painter from
Palestine, at David Jones’s, Sydney. It is
typical, ana represents the good advice given
to Noah by Satan when the late skipper of
the Ark was about to plant his vineyard.
Satan
took a ewe and slaughtered it over the vine.
Then he brought a lion and slaughtered it over the
vine likewise. Then be brought an ape and slaughtered
it over the vine, and so he did with a swine. He
then caused their blood to drip and caused the
vine to drink it.
And so forth. Prices range up to 1000
guineas. One of the lesser pictures—a sun-
and-shade glimpse of tulips in a Jerusalem
backyard—is a charming decorative piece.
VIC. ARTISTS’ SOCIETY.
There are 126 exhibits in the spring out-
burst, as against 230 in the autumn upris-
ing; so presumably this industrious organi-
sation accepted the suggestion here offered
in a helpful spirit, that the energies of its
most prolific painters should be diverted to
the fish trade. What remains includes more
work of a serene and satisfying complexion
than any previous show for a long time. For
sheer competence in seeing and recording,
nothing exceeds the nude by Colin Colahan,
which is also the largest canvas. The same
gentleman engaged in a huge project in
painting the articles on his studio table
(No. 5). Hei almost mastered it.
Alma Figuerola, as usual, confines herself
modestly to still-lifes, though she paints them
with so much adeptness that a' tree-trunk
and a bit of grass should not hold many
terrors for her. A. Coleman’s “September
Day, Mentone” is gay with light and color,
and P. Hurry’s “Nora” sits in her frame
comfortably. Not so the “Wharton Rloyd”
and the “Mrs. Harry Emmerton” of E.
Buckmaster. This young man continues to
paint slick, arresting pictures; but closer
inspection reveals irritating bits of over-
emphasis.
The Bulletin thanks Eileen B. Pearcey
for her very delightful “Chopiniana.” Herein
the airy members of Pavlova’s ballet are
cleverly arranged against the sombre green
of the cypress background, and all is suf-
fused with the right air of a thrilling theat-
ricality. F. R. Thompson’s “Blue Shadow”
is a striking landscape, and in “Little Dock”
Murray Griffin has written the epitaph of
the sailing ship in an appropriately roman-
tic fashion. The hills in G. H. St. Ellen’s
“Winter Afternoon” look interesting in a
solid, topographical manner. Colin Cola-
han’s “Green Fence,” with its vibrating light,
reveals that there is beauty even in a back
lane in Toorak. The machinery creaks in
F. G. Reynolds’s “Jean,” and Charles Wheeler
has callously set “A Lady” in a vacuum.
“Beach at Mornington” is W. Delafield
Cook’s best exercise in observation, while
T. Le Brun’s “The Lugger” is forging
through some medium which doesn’t appear
to be the ocean. Montagu Brown’s “View
from Mount Dandenong” is lacking in per-
ception.
A feature of the show is the persistent
encroachment on the walls of the cohorts
of Meldrumism. Their steady questing after
the plain truths of Nature gives their work
a solidity, which makes both the incompetent
realists and the sentimentalists look pallid.
The Inky Way
T. L. Anderson (“Jackeroo,” of The
Bulletin) has written his last par, at 45.
f, tor in turn of the Beaudesert Times
the Iviliarney Advocate, the Mitchell News
?non th u Cro y’s Nest Record, he bad since
l-:«0 been in charge of the Queensland
Braziers Journal. Pie was a foremost
ngure. in Brisbane’s Authors’ and Artists’
Association, and will be sadly missed at its
monthly literary evenings.
“ ’Berra’’: Political pressmen will miss
Bruce. It was not in his nature to be
over-communicative, but he was always cour-
teous and never kept scribes hanging about
Th? a di^m e was commissioned
m 1923 he said: “I’ll see afternoon-paper
men at one o clock and morning-paper men
at live o clock; and there are not going to
any coups.” He stuck to his bargain, and
during his long term of office he was never
let down.


Jelly is the crazel
;F you share the fashion-
able craze for Jellies
here is a hint. A jelly is
the smart thing to serve:
serve it smartly. Ask your
chinaware dealer to send
you half-a-dozen of Shelley’s
Jelly Moulds in strong
white porcelain. Then your
jellies will always turn out
with the chosen shape
sharply defined—just as it
should be!
Ask TO SEE THE LATEST
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
• China
Nursery Ware
l>y Lucie Attweu
& Hilda Cowham
DomesticV/are
Jelly Moulds
m CASK
ajJ.CLARIMCE #T.
The Bulletin
Experimenting
How much a year do
you waste in unneces-
sary Experiments?
Cut Waste and
Advertise with a
“Result-Bringer”
Che telegraph
BRISBANE
Has proved itself for
over 57 years a good
“Result-Bringer” for
all Advertisers.
Cbe Celegrapb
newspaper Co. Etd.
Queen & Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane.
X
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern Is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
The GO/JABD LINE »/EEAITy
SLENDERIZING
LINED
OF INTRIGOING
DMARTNEDD
Larger figures will find new
comfort and slenderizing lines
in the latest Gossard designs*
Note the new hip line on this
brassiere, which comes well
down over the top of the
corset, and terminates in a
hose supporter* It shows a
special diaphragm reinforce*
ment, and is made of lovely
striped satin tricot*
Both in regard to comfort and style,
this delightful model meets every re-
quirement of fastidious tastes. Con-
struction provides a slight uplift
effect. Other special features make
for added loveliness of detail and
charm of finish. We suggest your
early inspection at the leading stores.
There are also lovely step-ins, com-
binations, girdles and front-lacing
corsets.
THE CANADIAN H. W. GOSSARD CO<
114-120 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY, N.S. W.
Ltd .
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Gaza”: A Melbourne concern periodi-
cally dispatches a 10-wheeled motor-van
carrying five tons of general merchandise
for distribution among its country branches,
which extend beyond the Murray. as far
as Cootamundra. The route taken is along-
side Government railway lines, which are
not paying. So far, however, these motor-
lorry services have not undertaken the car-
riage of sheep or fodder at starving-stock
rates. They leave that class of goods to
the railways.
* * * *
“Humpback”: The revived interest in
whaling of late years is not due altogether
to the oil value of the big mammal. North-
ern Europe is now eating canned whalemeat,
while whale leather is supplanting the
choicest goatskins as material for high-
priced gloves. The leather is made, not from
the whale’s skin —he has none, properly
speaking—but from the intestines. An
average whale furnishes some 80 yards of
the materia], which is 18in. wide when
opened and flattened. The stomach pro-
duces a heavy “hide” equivalent to those
of a dozen bullocks, and of first-class leather
quality.
* * * *
“Q. 5.0.”: The Westralian railways aren’t
run by such utter chumps as “Punakaiki”
would have us believe. The burning of
old sleepers at Kalgoorlie must have hap-
pened when Adam was a youth. Nowadays
a close tally is kept of all old sleepers; and
these are used for making stock-yards, bot-
toms of wheat stacks, and as revetments on
cuttinvs and banks. No ganger would last
lone- who could not account for every one of
the old sleepers on his section when the re-
sTeepering job is through.
* # * . *
“Tfl”: “Moneybags” (B. 9/10/’29) thinks
he ought to get particulars of trunk-line
calls in his telephone accounts, and men-
tions one for £l3 ss. 6d.. Averaging those
calls at a shilling, that would mean making-
out 265 i items in duplicate—one copy for
the office and one for “Moneybags.” Obvi-
ously it couldn’t be done as a general prac-
tice. The department is losing more; than
enough already.
* si: :|: *
“P.X.” : How are the Northern (Maitland)
coalminers living? Well, scores of them
have gone away and got jobs and scores more
are billeted on relations and “friends of
the cause” who are in good possies in Syd-
ney and elsewhere. Others have little week-
end places down at the seaside, and are
living in them and getting along pretty well
between fish, dole and union pay. Union
pay is better than most people think, because
every man on the Broken Hill mines is still
handing over 2s. 6d. in the £ of his earnings.
At least, he is supposed to be doing it, but
the union bosses, as a rule, take his word
for his contract earnings, and they are not
often confessed at more than £5 a week,
though they may really be £9 or more.
A very large proportion of the Broken Hill
men are sick and tired of the heavy cut into
their pay ; but apparently there’s nobody with
pluck enough to start a rebellion.
* :]= * *
“Pabellco”: No need to go as far as
Asia to find a field of use for discarded
rasps and files (B. 16/10/’29). They are
fashioned by the out-back Australian black-
smith into much-prized cold-chisels; some
smiths having quite a reputation for turn-
ing these out. The rasp is given just
enough working to make it handy for the
user and to draw one end to a cutting point.
Even the roughness is only slightly toned
down, so as to leave a gnarled handgrip.
Another use is as a plough-blade for rabbit-
poisoning machines; but this necessitates a
good deal of drawing out of the rasp.
% * *
“Oliphant”: The completion of the great
bridge across the Limpopo marks an import-
ant step foi-ward in the business relations
of the South African Union and Southern
Rhodesia. Before it was built, S.R. produce
mostly went out through the Portuguese
port of Beira, the Bulawayo-Capetown route
being too expensive. The first direct link,
between the two countries, the new bridge,
will cut freight expenses heavily. It was
designed by Freeman, of Dorman, Long and
Co., and built by the concern which is span-
ning Sydney Harbor.
in ss: ❖
“I-lannam Street”: A friend of mine who
had sold drapery for 40 years, first at Broken
Hill and then on the Westralian goldfields,
was fully convinced of the judiciousness of
offering every customer the best goods he
had, however little their appearance might
seem to warrant it. To support his pet
theory he would tell two stories —both
rather against himself. An obviously poor
woman came in to buy a boy’s suit. “Some-
thing cheap, I suppose,” she was asked.
“No,” was the reply (packed with true wis-
dom, according to the narrator), “I can’t
afford to buy cheap things.” A tattered
dryblower asked to be shown some pyjamas.
“How about some silk ones?” asked the
retailer, jocularly, “I’ve just got a new line
in from London at two guineas a suit.”. He
was staggered when the dusty alluvialist
said that was just what he was looking for.
and bought six guineas’ worth.
* * * *
“G. City”: Lord Luke, chairman of the
Bovril concern, suggests a competition de-
signed to advertise Australian wool; at 2s.
an entry, £25,000 might be distributed among
authors of the best paragraphs on the 12
greatest advantages of wool. Lord Luke s
brains and experience arc not to be doubted,
but advertising a finished article is a very
different thing from advertising a raw
material. There is still plenty of use for
all the wool in the world, and, provided it
is near enough to the mill’s mouth, none
of it is too poor to use. Our trouble is
that the mill’s mouth is not near enough to
the seat of production. If we could adver-
tise cogent reasons why manufacturers
should come here, it would benefit suppliers
of our raw material a great deal more than
would any advertising campaign on the
advantages of wool. That would put more
money into the pockets of our customers
than into our own.


F 7 ":
£tHN '
M
o
'&■
x.
“SS*».
fe
■
MMH
■
hi
■
w:.-
■
■
I*
■
“Well, now, that’s just what
I was thinking, myself.”
A ICO MAT! C SCHIEDAM
D
As Good for Women as for Men*
Wolfe’s Schnapps
is obtainable
everywhere in
Quarter, Half
and Large size
bottles.


Greater Effiaenaj
lower Price
Seven bearing
cifanKghaif
Steel wheels
"Full Foi'eed
Feed Lufoikati
Heaviest Chassis
M 1
//I
>1
—V<\\
✓
(pATONj
C **4s.
•Sfc
Qhd
•™*e s
SUPERIOR
Whippet
TT 30 CWI TRUCK.
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
ONLY a highly efficient Truck shows
a worth while profit for Truck
owners; that’s why we built the Whip-
pet Six. Study the specifications care-
fully, and you’ll marvel that engineers
could, incorporate so many features,
usually considered exclusive to high-
priced units, and yet produce the
Whippet Six at its price.
For instance — Seven-bearing Crankshaft. Costs
much more to make, but it provides more than
twice the bearing surface —84.28 square inches—
and eliminates whip and play.
And Full Forced-feed. Lubrication. By no other
means can you be sure that every working part
of. your engine is getting the oil essential to its
welfare.
The chassis of the Whippet Six is from 150 to
200 lbs. heavier than any competing make—
extra steel that means extra strength. Steel
wheels were included because of their acknow-
ledged superiority for Truck work, and four-
wheel brakes were also accepted as essential to
modern traffic conditions.
Four Speed Transmission saves valuable time,
and relieves the engine of undue strain.
A wheelbase of 13 1 inches allows for an absolute
minimum of overhang.
Get the facts from your nearest Willys-Overland
Dealer.
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LTD.,
148-150 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
62-70 Franklin Street, Adelaide, S.A.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
53-63 Bathurst Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
OVERLAND VICTORIA PTY., LTD.,
117-121 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, Vic.
ADAMS MOTORS, LTD.,
442 Murray Street, Perth, W.A.
E. G. EAGER & SON, LTD.,
Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, Brisbane, Q.


LOVELY
LAKELAND
Where the ocean surf booms on
miles of white beach, where the
rolling, green-nrantled hills
slope into the mirrored blue
of the sea—there, sunlit
and sparkling, stretch
the Gin psl an d
Lakes, a string
of glittering
jewels in a
setting of
green
and
gold.
Consult the
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU
QUEEN’S WALK, MELBOURNE.
MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY.
Delightful!
Cool!
Refreshing'!
There’s cheering and quenching
satisfaction in every bottle of
RB
GENUINE LAGER.
and
DA
DINNER ALE.
m*KLHP*H
e
iag synwusny
is
IMSM
m
m
m
W. W. GREENER
GUNS
r'
/•»
W. W. GREENER LTD., Birmingham
Wholesale Australian Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.,
405 4*7 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, C.l.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Melbourne racing fans saw Nightmarch on
business bent for the first time last Satur-
day. Accepting his credentials as valid, they
made the Maorilander a pronounced favorite
for the W. S. Cox Plate at Moonee Valley.
In occasional flashes of daring the book-
makers offered 6 to 4, but Nightmarch went
out at 5 to 4, Mollison (9 to 4) pushing
Highland out of second favoritism.
It was a curious race. Nightmarch was
last to leave the straight, but, with six fur-
longs to go, moved into second place behind
.Mollison. On pressure being applied, Molli-
son commenced to hang out. This hampered
.Nightmarch, and—what was worse—enabled
Duncan to dash faithful old Highland through
on the rails. They faced for home with
Roy Reed struggling to get clear of Molli-
son, and Duncan driving Highland along
with volcanic energy. It looked as if the
favorite was doomed, but in the last few strides
Tteed dropped the whip on Nightmarch, who
responded magnetically, scoring by half a
neck. _ Experienced critics declared that, had
the riders been reversed, Nightmarch would
have won with lengths to spare. Roy Reed
is, perhaps, the least elegant top-notch
jockey who has come over from Maori!and.
However, he does get results. -
Black Duchess never came into the Cox
Plate picture, and must have gone right off
since High Syce had to chase her so hard
in the Caulfield Stakes. Frank McGrath
scratched Amounis on the course. Rumors
gained currency that the Magpie gelding had
broken down, but McGrath informed a Syd-
ney friend that a bruised heel was the
trouble. He was on the track again on
Monday, and so was Bacchus, also alleged
to have broken down.
Partly because he had to put up a 71b.
penalty, Prince Viol received only moderate
support, at eights, for the Moonee Valley
Gold Cup. Last-moment quotes revealed
Second Wind (7 to 2) in only half-a.-poiiit
better demand than Kidaides and Shadow
King. The scratching of Bacchus left
Munro free to ride Kidaides, and that Ade-
laide prad shortened from 7 to 1. He never
settled down properly, and beat .few horses
home. Prince Viol took somewhat long to
find his legs, but put in a brilliant run along
the back, and had the race won before
entering the straight. Second Wind, the
runner-up, floundered under pressure. His
Melbourne Cup chance is unattractive, and
Jack Holt may have to. depend on the
penalised High Syce. Mrs. Buxton impul-
sively announced that her equine hero
wouldn’t tackle the Melbourne Cup, but she
has evidently changed her mind.
Both juvenile events at Moonee Valley
might have gone to' Adelaide representatives.
Comic Song (2 to 1) landed the colts’ and
geldings’ division, and Cistercian Maid, an
even warmer favorite for the fillies’ race,
was left at the post. R. E. H. Hope must
be proud of having bred Comic Song, who
pulled through by sheer gameness; he is by
King of Mirth- —Harmonius. Drake received
an excellent stud advertisement, and “S. A.
Rawdon” was compensated for an exasperat-
ing run of ill luck when Llamrei (6 to 1)
captured the fillies’ race and Toussaint
(25 to 1) led home a smart sprint field in
the Dundonald Handicap. Figure and St.
Ardent divided favoritism in the latter con-
test. The Sydney mare led to the turn and
snuffed out, but St. Ardent took third honors,
and is a moral certainty to win soon.
# $ $ $
It was here printed on September 18 that
Phar Lap, if all went well with him, would
be The Bulletin’s choice for the A.J.C.
Derby and the Melbourne Cup. The up-
standing chestnut duly won the Randwick
classic, and the Rosehill Guineas and the
A.J.C. Craven Plate as well, and lie is now
a steaming-hot favorite for the Cup, Tel-
ford having abandoned his intention—if he
ever had it —of putting the pen through the
gelding’s name. On the Victoria Derby there
is no betting, Phar Lap having demoralised
tin' market. Certainly no one who saw the
Randwick race could back Carradale to turn
the tables on him, and there is apparently
nothing else worth considering.
There are no certainties in races like the
Melbourne Cup, and horses go off. On
A.J.C. Derby running two years ago Wina-
lot was as good, or nearly as good, as Tri-
valve over any distance; yet Trivalve won
the Cup, and Winalot, with a pull in the
weights, finished a long way back. In the
meantime Winalot had lost his form. So
did Trivalve lose his form in the autumn,
when he could not beat Valamita, a second-
rater, at w.f.a. There is no reason to be-
THE RULING PASSION.
GOLF ADDICT (to semi-stunned burglar ): “I always say there’s nothing like a niblick
for getting one out of trouble.”
lieve that Phar Lap has gone off, though
some of the watchers of gallops profess to
believe that Telford has been too easy with
him since Rand-wick. Bob Lewis is to ride
him at 7st. 61b. —he was handicapped at
6st. 121b.’ This Page considers Phar Lap
one of the greatest three-year-olds it has
seen, and expects him to win the Cup.
For places Nightmarch (9st. 21b.),
Bacchus (Sst. 91b.), Paquito (Bst. 51b.),
Second Wind (Sst. 41b.), Some Quality (Sst.
lib.) and Prince Viol (6st. 121 b.) have
claims; High Syce (9st. 111 b.) looks to have
too much weight. Nightmarch is quite first-
class, and though the last furlong of the
16 may trouble him he may be depended
upon to give his backers a good run for
their money. And William Kelso was con-
fident a week ago that Bacchus would run
well if the going was all right; whether the
disquieting reports since in circulation about
the old horse have any foundation remains
to be seen. Nor has Melbourne seen the
best of Paquito, who was going like steam
at the end of the Metropolitan. Some Quality
showed capital staying form in the autumn,
and Prince Viol is in very light for a horse
with such capital performances. Fancies: —
Maribyrnong Plate: . Green Wave, 1;
Comic Song, 2 ; First Legion, 3.
Melbourne Stakes: Nightmarch. ,
Victoria Derby: Phar Lab, 1; Carradale,
2 * Taisho 3
Cantala Stakes: Reonui, 1; Gilt Edge, 2;
St. Ardent, 3.
Hotham Handicap: Second Wind.
Melbourne Cup: Phar Lap, 1; Night-
march, 2: Bacchus or Prince Viol 3.
* * . *
Backers were well on the spot at Moore-
field on Saturday except in the richest event
on the programme, the Moorefield Mile. For
that Sion was a 7-to-4 favorite, but after
looking dangerous he could not come on.
Perhaps the going bothered him —it was
rather heavy; at five years the handsome
fellow can scarcely be a back number. West-
ern Lass (6 to 1) was started for this race
in preference to the 10-furlongs handicap,
in which she might have been better suited;
she was a fast-finishing second to Magnetic
(20 to 1), who surprised his party as well
as the public. He returned a great dividend
(one of three) : £l7 17s. for 10s., or nearly
35 to 1. It was a fearful showing-up for
McShortodds, considering that those who
toted Magnetic shared only 60 per cent, of
a pool from which 121 per cent, and frac-
tions of sixpences had been deducted.
Owner-trainer Tindall won a double, with
Arcturus (9 to 4) in the Nursery Stakes
and Hustler (3 to 1) in the Moorefield
Handicap; and his Goldminer (9 to 4) ran
second, with 9st. 81b., to Polacre (3 to 1)
in a division of a six-furlongs handicap
restricted to three-and-four-year-olds. Booth,
of Rosehill, owns and trains Polacre; and
Black Douglas (7 to 2), in which he has a
half-interest, carried off a division of the
Flying Welter. Bartle rode both.
* * * *
For Rosehill to-day :
Flying Handicap: Cleave; next, Bonnie
Marjorie.
October Handicap: King William; next,
Lord Ivennaquhair.
Parramatta Mile: Bawn-na-glas; next,
Bavacre.
For Canterbury Park on Saturday:—
Flying Handicap: Lady Canberra; next,
Beau Dennis.
Highweiglit Handicap: Goldminer.
Park Handicap : Eden Hall; next, Frances
Cyllene.
Gampsie Handicap: Factor; next, Bav-
acre.
$ * * $
“My Life on the Australian Turf,” by
James Scobie (Robertson and Mullens), is
e book that, should interest punters. The
story of the • great trainer has been
chronicled in racy fashion by Frank
Hart, whose pen-name “Khedive” has
been familiar to sporting addicts for
over 20 years in Melbourne. The book is
packed with entertaining anecdotes about the
horses Scobie trained, and the people he
trained them for, such as Martin Loughlin,
William Bailey, Bob Orr, W. T Jones and
the liard-riding Norman Wilson. Incident-
ally, Scobie says the almost-forgotten Sylvan
King was one of the best horses he ever
trained. Now, who would have thought that?
* * # ;J;
“Selling Plater”: Some time ago a Bul-
letin correspondent chronicled the introduc-
tion of pony-racing to England, that be-
nighted country not having hitherto appreci-
ated the beauties of the pastime. There are
some folk who are still in the outer darkness,
so to speak. They are the residents of
Harrow, near where the principal Robbery
Park is situated. These prejudiced people
have petitioned the County Council to obli-
terate the racecourse, sow its site with, salt,
and hang its habitues, or words to that
effect. The cause of the outburst is the* fact
that since the ponies and their entourage
arrived, pretty well every house in Harrow
has been burgled, some of them several times.
As the petition puts it, conditions at Harrow
are now as bad as they have been at Wemb-
ley since the tin-hare —another delightful
amusement —couched there.
* * :!s *
“Hula”: The annual race meeting of the
Papuan Turf Club was unfortunate in clash-
ing with the A.J.C, spring meeting, but
the attendances and racing are not considered
to have suffered thereby. The punters were
quite up to the best Sydney form in dis-
agreeing with the judge's decision in the
big race, in which Lyndhurst deadheaded
with Firefly after the latter had opened the
programme by winning the Flying. Horses
in Papua are meant to bo raced, not looked
at, so when Huri Huri won the Papua
Stakes with 9st. 61b. up he was saddled up
again in the next, carrying 9st. 101 b. He ran
second.
M. (and Rafferty) Rules
In a fight marked by hard bursts of punch-
ing, Len White (9st. ’Blb.), a promising local
boy, outpointed Sammy Shack (9st. 51b.)
over 15 rounds at Sydney Stadium. Sammy
started off as if to get the business over
quickly, but found White quite willing to
swap punches. The Yank aroused the wrath
of the crowd and took a caution from the
referee for holding the ropes to get extra
power into his punches. At the end of the
10th round he had a lot of leeway to make
up, but in the next brought White to his
knees with a sizzling right to the jaw. Keep-
ing up the pressure, he appeared likely to
win by a k. 0., but the local lad saw it.
out, and thoroughly earned the decision.
The Ins and Outs
“Kandy”: The English cricketers for
Maoriland via Australia played the usual
one-day picnic match at Colombo last week,
the locals scoring 171 for 7 wickets and the
tourists 110 for 5. Nothing much was done
by either side in the batting line, but Allen,
the young professional fast bowler, had a
good day with the ball, taking 5 Cingalese
wickets for 36. The visitors tackle South
Australia on November 18, and work their
passage across as far as Brisbane, then leav-
ing for Maoriland. The prospect of seeing
that master Frank Woolley in action again,
to say nothing of Ranji’s nephew, the
brilliant Duleepsinghi, has already roused
Australian interest to almost Test-match
heights.
“Tenth Slip”: All over Australia at the
present moment a feverish search is being
conducted for new bowlers, and every week
a new swan is being discovered which eventu-
ally resolves itself into the usual goose.
There have been exceptions. A young fast
bowler named Theak has blossomed out in
Sydney club cricket with some remarkable
averages, and has been doing well with the
Association team which has been touring the
country districts of N.S.W. under Macartney.
Queensland is in high hopes over a country
left-hander named Pizzey, who has been bowl-
like a tradesman in Brisbane. Victoria is
building on slow-bowler Hassett, of South
Melbourne, and Alexander, who shocked the
Englishmen in the second match against
Victoria last season. In South Australia,
Grimmett and Williams are still pre-eminent,
though Whitfield may yet turn out the suc-
cess he promised to be last season.
( Continued on, page 41.)
Finishing with 11 men, the Kangaroos
went down to Leeds in a mid-week match
by 8-7, or 2 tries and a goal to a try and
2 goals. Two Australians, O’Rourke, of
N. and Moores, of Queensland, played
in the Leeds team. The tourists redeemed
themselves in the Saturday match against
the strong Hull side, romping home by .35
(7 tries, 7 goals) to 2 (a penalty goal).
* ;|: *
Victoria regained the Grand
Cup when the Hawthorn crew defeated the
Sydney R.C. eight at Henley-on-Yarra by
three-quarters of a length. It was a good race,
as the time, omin. 28sec., indicates. J. R.
Scott, of N.S.W., made amends by winning
the Challenge Sculls from J. C. Hardy (Vic.),
by 3'lengths in 6min. 41sec. The Stewards
Challenge Cup for fours was won by the
Tamar club, whose crew had been beaten by
Sydney in the first heat of the eights.
THESE CUPS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“These flamin’ Cups,” he said, “they draw
the mob,
Too true! And all the fancy Janes appear
In clobber tliat’d make a peacock sob
His heart out, and just stand around and
sneer
At ev’rybody else’s duds, and chat
About that Mrs. Frillydol’s divorce,
And what’s the smartest trimmin’ for a hat;
And when the whips are crackin’ on the
course,
They find some new ‘creation’ to inspect,
And then —so help me, if they don’t collect!
“These flamin’ Cups,” ,he said, “are pretty
right
For frills and fol-de-rols and swish and
swank,
For mugs just made to be a book’s delight,
And willy-boys with billions in the bank;
For them that like a track where you can’t
think,
Or get a chance to see what’s short or
lame,
Or room to hustle when you get the wink;
And where they act like it was all a
game (<
And gabblin’ tabbies clutter up the course,
And somebody is backin’ cv’ry horse.
“These flamin’ Cups,” he said, “give me a
pain.
Me for the meetin’ where you know what’s
what,
And hear the news—what’s runnin’ up a
lane,
And how last week that filly was so
hot
A case the stipes darned nearly had her up,
And what young Clancy says about his
mount,
And why Sol Ellison wms sold a pup,
And where they’re layin’ all the bets that
count.
Give me the diiikum racin’ down the line—
Too many triers in a Cup for mine !”
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


.i
m
m
m.
//
r/y
2
fe
J .
fe.
"m ni ■ >
55.
N
I'tiufog
t±
ttt ‘
srr
fIP
h±l U-b^
.5
rfiirl
\
:vr^
§*
IFfrr^-.
I l ~
• V*~-5
O >
u^ret?
v*-°
A/r?
r
*•
From the giant trees of the forest, matured
through the years, the wood used for the
separators in Clyde Batteries is obtained.
Intense care is taken in the final selection
to ensure the inclusion of only clear-grained
wood. To make assurance doubly sure this
wood is then subjected to special treatment
to guard against the presence of any injurious
substances.
Not only with the separators, but with all
other ingredients used in the manufacture
of Clyde Batteries it is this careful attention
to detail that gives Clyde those well-known
qualities of high capacity and longer life.
9
J
%
*
t
s
the
CLYDE
battery
ALBION TRUCK DEPARTMENT,
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING CO., LTD.
107-109 PARRAMATTA ROAD,
Camperdown, N.S.W.
MORE POWER TO YOU.
Clyde Batteries for Cars, Radio and Home Lighting are made by
The Clyde Engineering Co., Ltd., Granville, N.S.W., largest
manufacturers of Storage Batteries in Australia. Obtainable at all
garages and radio dealers.
CLYDE BATTERY SALES AND SERVICE DIVISION,
106-110 Goulburn Street, Sydney.
INTER-STATE DISTRIBUTORS.
MELBOURNE.
The Clyde
Engineering
Co., Ltd.
BRISBANE.
The Clyde
Engineering
Co., Ltd.
ADELAIDE.
Cornell,
Limlited.
PERTH.
Unbehaun and
Johnstone
(W.A.), Ltd.
LAUNCESTON
AND HOBART.
W. & G. Genders
Pty., Ltd.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Pisk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etr
Head Office
Brisbane.
THE EQUITABLE LIFE
Assurance Company of Australasia, Ltd.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Office: 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Company issues every variety of Probate, Whole
Life, Endowment, Children’s Endowment, Combined
Benefits (All Sicknesses) and Personal Accident Policy.
Policies provide for payment of Hospital Expenses in
lump sum or partial disability, and for cessation of
premiums on total disability. Secure full particulars from
any of the Company’s offices.
FREDK. LEVY, Managing Director.
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN"
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
t**PUMP TYPE
SUPER CHARGER
4. EFFICIENCY
W WITH ECONOMY
6 SIMPLICITY
Wholesale Agents and Stockists:
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
284 Pitt Street, Sydney.
6eer!S6y look tired, Gert!
G»ERT I DONT LIKE THIS
COURSE ‘‘
Bert "which course oovou
UK.E BEST ?”
CsfcßT ’."THE CHICKEN, t THINK ’’
The Ins and Outs
“Twelfth Man”: Your cricket umpire is
a long-suffering soul. One recently com-
plained to me of the contumelious comment
of a bowler to whom he had refused a
l.b.w. appeal. “Starve th’ crows,” said the
disgusted . trundler • “if it wuz a centipede
battin’, y’d be in two minds w’ether ’e ’ad
a leg in front.” Still, he got a bit back
the same day. This time he gave a l.b.w.
decision. “Wot am I out for?” yelped the
batsman. “Th’ rest of the afternoon,” was
the retort courteous.
* * H* *
“Shrewsbury”: Marylebone lias recently
been considering a cricket problem. Two
club teams were playing in Bedfordshire,
when a swallow flew across the pitch as a
bowler was delivering the ball. This hit
and killed the swallow, but was not deflected.
The batsman made no attempt to play the
ball, and was bowled. He was given out
by the umpire. Was it a correct decision?
In the writer’s opinion, no. Still, this is
one of the cases where the umpire is per-
mitted to exercise his own discretion in
regard to the circumstances.
* * *
“Hotham”: Victorian journals have been
featuring a cricket trophy presented for
a match between Victoria and N.S.W.
on the Melbourne Cricket Ground in 1881.
It is a magnificent silver punchbowl with
ladle complete, reinforced with silver gob-
lets hanging round a railing enclosing the
stand on which the bowl rests. The opposing
sides included most of the then leading
players in Australian cricket, Victorian field-
ing nine internationals. N.S.W. could
only muster six, and was beaten by two
wickets. It would be interesting to know
how often that long-forgotten beverage
punch, has been brewed in the bowl since
the days of the giants.
* * * *
“Tune Up”: The announcement that a
band has been engaged to play during the
match between N.S.W. and Gi'iligan’s Eng-
lish _ side, which commences on Nov. 22,
reminds me. I was sitting in the press box
alongside the late Frank Iredale when an
English eleven was playing Noo South. There
was a band installed, this being then some-
thing of an innovation, and we were waiting
lor the next man to go in, the name not
being yet posted on the board, when someone
‘What’s the band going to play next?”
Iredale had been leaning out through the
window and had just caught a glimpse of the
in-going batsman. “The Dead March in
Saul he commented. “Here’s Blank going
in. Wild barrackers will never tear from me
the person Frank referred to. However, it
costs nothing to guess.
* * * *
“W.G. Snort”: Something like a palace
revolution threatens in N.S.W. cricket circles,
liie decision of the Association executive
that all umpires must in future undergo
eyesight and medical tests lias roused a lot of
estimable old gentlemen to fury. The step
is ot doubtful wisdom. It is quite possible
tor a man to have an eye like the proverbial
eagle and to be immune from housemaid’s
Knee, trench feet and locomotor-ataxia and
yet be an infernally bad umpire. Umpiring
ls . not to be acquired. It is an intuitive
science. That is why really first-class umps.
aie as rare as ice-cream sundaes in
.leflannum. And why stop at testing an
umpire for his eyesight? Some I have come
in contact with would have been none the
worse tor a breath test, especially after lunch:
* * * %
“Shrewsbury”: A’Beckett, the Victorian
aU-roundcr, who figured in the third and
lourth Tests against Chapman’s team, is to
go to Oxford. H'e will be the first repre-
sentative Australian cricketer to enter an
English University, for Sammy Woods was
at Cambridge when called on to play for
liis native land. Like Sam, a’Beckett will be
available for Australia, if circumstances
make it necessary to call on his services.
His bowling, especially, should be most
effective on English wickets.
* * * - *
The “N.S.W. Cricket Year Book” for
1928-29 is perhaps the finest publication
of its kind yet printed in Australia, and is
a striking testimonial to the industry and
capacity of its compiler, H. Heydon, secretary
of the N.S.W.C.A. The book bristles with
statistics of inter-State and international
cricket, and a particularly welcome feature is
the addition of the Rules of Cricket brought
up to date and annotated, this being supple-
mented with the special rulings of the Board
of Control and the Marylebone C.C. with
regard to the conduct of Test cricket.
* * * *
“Ivingsland”: Tell “Bramall Lane” his
lament over the inferiority of Shrewsbury
School cricket is ill-timed.’ In addition to
A. T. Barber, the Oxford and Yorkshire
skipper, of whom he wrote, D. _ N. Moore,
acclaimed the finest schoolboy cricketer seen
in England for years, has just left the same
school. During the past season he made
over 1000 runs for the school eleven, scor-
ing centuries against Wolverhampton, Free
Foresters, Malvern, Russell and Uppingham.
Considering that was all jambed into the
short summer term, at the end of which
the school examinations for scholarships, etc.,
are. held, the performance must be ac-
claimed a fine one. As Moore is not likely to
go up to a university, big cricket may not
see much of him. A schoolboy cricketer who
has also made his 1000 in a term is M. J.
Turnbull, who will soon be with us with
Gilligan’s team. He was at Downside, the
big R.C. school in Somersetshire, when he
accomplished the feat.
Racquet and Bawl
“Amateur Pro”: Though the details are
familiar to all, the N.S.W. tennis junta still
maintains a mysterious silence over the ex-
penditure of £7O by the Queensland Asso-
ciation on members of the N.S.W. team
which recently played Queensland in Bris-
bane. What happened was that N.S.W.
invited nominations on the understanding
that players would pay their own expenses.
There was a lack of enthusiastic response, so
Queensland got in touch with some of the
cracks and offered to pay travelling and
hotel charges. The offer was accepted and
that is where the money went, no “pocket-
money” payments being made. The official
silence has given rise to all sorts of rumors,
and it is due to the players and to the public
which provides the funds for the L.T.A. that
the explanation be published.
* * * *
“Baseline” : Helen Wills has been invited
to visit us in January and February. Helen
lives just over the way, so to speak, in Cali-
fornia, and it is thought she might feel more
inclined to hop on the boat and run across
than the East Coasters; but she says she
can’t do it this season. It is, nevertheless,
hoped that Jean Borotra, who is coming
this way on business, may be persuade*'
to swing a racquet in the big tournaments.
* * * *
“Ton Spin”: That open tennis tournament
for amateurs and professionals in England
(B. 23/10/’29) has practically been decided
upon, in spite of American opposition. The
Council of the English L.T.A. has decided to
support the move at the next meeting of the
International Federation, and that should
go a long way to bring about the change.
The Americans, on the other hand, are ask-
ing for an amendment of the rules to make
it definitely an act of professionalism for
an amateur to compete with a pro.
sS * *
“Whaffor”: The dragon of dissension has
entered tennis in the Flowery Land. The
China National Amateur Federation has
suspended Gordon Lum, the ex-Victorian
player, for refusing to finish an exhibition
match with one Dim Boon Sob, on the
ground that he was tired. Further, Lum is
charged with having refused to meet Khoo
1100 Yai, and with having sent a ranking
list to American lawn tennis with .his own
name at the top instead of that of Khoo,
etc. Lum, who captained the last Chinese
Davis Cup team, was looked on as a promis-
ing colt in Australia four or five years ago,
and figured for Victoria in inter-State
matches.
The Watermen
“Past Grammar”: G.P.S. rowing arouses
such keen interest in Sydney that it is curi-
ous to note that no attempt has been made
to form a clab of G.P.S. oarsmen after they
have left school. Many of these young fel-
lows never get into a boat again after their
schooldays, and those who go up to the
University rarely figure in the boats there.
Yet the enthusiasm remains, as the annual
gathering of oldsters at the G.P.S. regatta
indicates. Brisbane goes the other way.
The G.P.S. club there is one of the most
powerful in the State, and at a regatta
recently scored three firsts and two seconds
out of five events, senior and junior.
* * * *
“Shell”: In view of the fact that Olympic
rowing events are held over a 2000-metres
course, the N.S.W. rowing authorities have
resolved to include races over this distance
in future programmes. The first will be a
sculling race on the Parramatta at the
Sydney Club’s regatta on November 28; this
will carry with it the 2000-metres State
championship. Apart from its Olympic
associations, the new distance has some
advantages of its own. There are half a
dozen places in Port Jackson where a course
of this length is available, whereas the only
convenient venue for the established three
miles championship sculls is on the Parra-
matta, which carries heavy traffic.
The Nineteenth Hole
“The McLlaggis”: Some, golf clubs, or
rather the rulers of them, have tender con-
sciences. At St. Andrews, and at many other
swanky British clubs, anyone daring' to set
out on a round in his shirt-sleeves would
have to face the committee, with expulsion
hanging over his head for a second offence.
The other day, one of Sydney’s leading
clubs was asked if it would stage an exhibi-
tion match between Joe Kirkwood and
Walter Hagen on a Sunday. The reply was
that the club declined to sanction the pro-
posed desecration of the day of rest. Vet
in every club in Sydney Sunday golf goes
merrily on from mom till dewy eve, and
no one seems to care a hoot. It seems ratner
like jibbing at the liqueur and draining the
tankard to object to two men playing on a
Sunday for a purse, while permitting hun-
dreds to swear their way round the links
for half-crowns or boxes of expensive balls.
* * * *
“Hotliam”: One of the most picturesque
golf clubs in Victoria is Heidelberg, founded
some two years ago. The full 18-
holes course has not yet been completed
(part of it is open), and the committee is
carrying out an ingenious scheme for ame-
liorating the brick-like conditions of the
original soil. After disc harrowing, a thick
layer of sand is ploughed into the fairways,
winch are then planted with couch. The
result is that fairways treated 12 months
ago are topped with sandy loam to a depth
of a foot, thus permitting the taking of a
divot without breaking the club shaft. The
idea is worth copying by other clubs, especi-
ally some of those in the back country, whose
courses are like cement in summer,
* * * *
“Divot Digger” : Control of golf in N.S.W.
will shortly pass to the Golf Association,
composed of delegates elected by the clubs
and district associations on a basis of one
delegate for every 100 members. The work-
ing executive will consist of 15 delegates
who must be resident within 120 miles rf
Sydney, while only three of them will repre-
sent country interests. Many of the country
clubs are not in love with the idea, or with
the annual 2s. levy on male members which
is to supply funds for the new body. They
have a notion that most of the cash will go
in metropolitan tourneys and similar func-
tions, and are declining to agree to the levy.
However, it has been made plain that if
they don’t shell out they will have to get
out, the association declaring them “black.”
* * * *
Abe Mitchell has been described as the
finest golfer who never won the British open
championship. In fact, though he has been
prominent in big golf for years, he had never
won any golf championship at all until! the
other day, when he collected the Irish, open
title. It was no walk-over, either, for most
of the British cracks were playing, and he
was up against the formidable Archie Comp-
ston, Hagen’s conqueror, in the final, which
he won by two strokes.. Temperament has
been Mitchell’s handicap. Although he can
play par golf for most of a match, he cracks
up in a hard finish.
:’c i\z :{: sj:
“Brassey”: Some statistician has been
attempting to compute the amount of money
spent annually on golf in the United States,
which is afflicted with the mania to a greater
degree than any other country. There are
4200 golf courses in the States, some 40 ner
cent, of them being 9-holers. Each of
these costs an average of £5OOO to build,
which accounts for £8,400,000. The average
cost of an 18-hole course is estimated
at £40,000, and that makes the cost
of the 2400 18-hole courses a mere trifle
of 104 millions—pounds, not dollars —in
round figures. To that, of course, must 1 e
added cost of golfing material, wages, sub-
scriptions and many other items, which
bring the total up to staggering figures.
& * $
“St. Cloud”: When the golf epidemic first
broke out on the Continent, it was for years
confined to the male of the species. Now
it is rapidly spreading among the women,
the French especially showing as much
appreciation for the game as capacity. One
French girl, Manette le Blau, has lifted
the British women’s title since the war, and
another, Simone de Chaume, the pre-
sent French championette, has gone very
near it on a couple of occasions. She is
on the plus-one mark, while 12 others are
handicapped under 10, a fact which speaks
for the general quality of tin; golf played by
these amazons.
* sis *
“Sandwich”: A feature of English and
American golf is the increasing popularity of
the game among all classes of the community.
In both countries what is known as “artisan
golf” is specially catered for with municipal
or other public courses, for which trifling-
charges are made. The game has caught < n
with folk who, a few years ago, would have
scoffed at the idea of indulging in it, and
the courses are so crowded in the early
mornings and in the long summer evenings,
when play is possible up to 9 or 10 p.m.,
that single players are banned and partner-
ships are fixed up in the course office. Many
have got into the habit of a round before
work or after, and find the daily routine
go all the smoother for the added interest
in life,
(Continued on next page.)


0
o
BE*
RECISTf^
austqm^
w
»
Follow the advice of experienced motorists who
have proved B.E.S. Spark Plugs perfect under
all conditions. Equip your car and ensure
efficient ignition. Fully guaranteed. All garages.
Price 4/6.
Manufactured by
Australian Spark Plugs Pty., Ltd.
562 Spencer Street, Melbourne, C.l.
’Phones: F 4947, F 5961.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.:
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Cuiwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
W. JNO. BAKER
185—BAKER’S FIVE; specially designed for
use among stock ; 5 Blades, Finest Quality and
Finish; Stag Haft. Size, 3jin. (as illustration),
16/6 each. Post free.
150 —W. JNO. BAKER STATION OR
FARMER’S KNIFE. The standard favorite of
the Australian Bush, 4in. Stag Haft, as illustra-
tion. 13/6 each,*post free.
6006 —Three-blade Stock, with Castrating Sheep
and Long Skinning Blade, 4in. Smooth Horn
Handle, 8/6 each, post free.
Post free for cash with order.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE.
W. JNO. BAKER,
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Alan Kippax
Bats
Patsy Hend r e n, who
selects our Cricket Bats
in England, writes that
the recent shipment con-
tained the finest bats
sent to Australia this
year. Included were:—
The Alan Kippax
Autograph 55/-
Walter Hammond
De Luxe 55/-
Alan Kippax Special
Club 45/-
Alan Kippax Renown,
37/6
Let Alan Kippax Select
one jor you.
N.S.W. Sports
Store,
26-28 Martin Place,
Sydney.
ALAN KIPPAX, Director.
THE
PATRIOT
[DIRECT MEDIUM!*? WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HFNCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
Missing Friends.
LEYDEN, MICHAEL, also known as
JAMES HILL, aged about 60, who was
working at or near Albury, New South
Wales, 1928, brother of Mrs. Darcy, will
hear something to his advantage if he com-
municates with
NATIONAL TRUSTEES .COMPANY,
113 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Hill, james (Michael leyden),
aged about 60, who was working at or
near Albury, New South Wales, in 1925,
brother of Mrs. Darcy, will hear something
to his advantage if he communicates with
NATIONAL TRUSTEES COMPANY,
113 Queen Street, Melbourne.
DOSENTHAL.— Any person knowing the
whereabouts of VICTOR ROSENTHAL
(brother of Michael, Abraham, Simon Louis
and Hannchen Studinski, nee Rosenthal),
address in 1919 St. Michael, No. 71 Hunter
Street, Sydney, travelling jeweller, or his
wife or family—something of advantage—
please communicate with the EQUiti
TRUSTEES CO., LTD., 85 Queen Street,
Melbourne.
IV/I ARY ELLEN RAYNER, formerly Mary
Ivl Ellen Finn, formerly of Mangalore, ana
of 72 Nicholson Street, Fitzroy, Victoria, or
any person knowing her whereabouts, is
urgently requested to communicate with
DOWNING & WILLIAMS, Solicitors,
Orient Line Buildings, 352 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Car and Cycle
“Disc Clutch” : In a car being put together
in, Sydney for Norman Smith, the engine is
a 12-cylinder Rolls-Royce water-cooled gad-
get picked up at the recent sale of aeroplane
stores in Victoria. It has only run on the
factory testing bench, where it was rated
at 360 h.p. In Smith’s car it is expected
to get near the 200-m.p.h. mark when tuned
and all out. Its first run will be on Gerrin-
gong Beach (N.S.W.) in the speed trials
early next month. One attack will be on
the Australasian record for a mile —109.19
m.p.h. Then the car will be taken to Maori-
land, where Smith hopes to better the world's
record for 10 miles, the 133.54 m.p.h. put
up by Marchand on the Monthlery track in
1928.
sK * * *
“Hoppit”: I have a sardonic friend whose
hobby it is to drive a dirty and dreadfully
bodied car which houses a powerful aero-
plane engine. I have yet to find the motorist
who can endure being passed by the disas-
trous-looking contraption. All and sundry
set out to overtake the wreck, and in their
fruitless attempts throw all consideration of
life and limb to the winds.
sfc ❖ *
“Hula”: Not only has golf got Papua
by the wool (B. 23,/10/’29), but the motor-
car has exercised its fell influence to the
full. A move has been made to form an auto-
mobile association with the idea of protect-
ing the interests of car-owners and pedes-
trians. A constitution has been drafted, and
at a recent meeting the executive was em-
powered to make “banking arrangements.”
That’s where the catch lies. The old care-
free days, when one could arrange an over-
draft at the stores on one’s more or less
unblemished reputation, have vanished. The
store financiers have been replaced by banks,
and these are notoriously prone to demand
collateral for advances. Ninety per cent,
of the cars owned in Papua cannot be re-
garded as collateral for the advance of a
long beer, so the outlook is gloomy.
* * * *
“Whizz”: Motor-cyclists are getting in-
creasingly reckless in Tasmania, where there
isn’t really room for a good all-out spin. A
chap who took a chance of going over the
edge was R. Hay, who rode from Launces-
ton to Hobart in lhr. 56min. 50 sec., averag-
ing 63.16 m.p.h. It was a good go, and beat
the previous best by over 5 minutes. Wliat
is really required for this sort of thing in
the Apple Islet is a motor cycle which can
be converted into a hydroplane, and vice
versa. This would give the Tasmanian
rider much more room in which to move;
after riding from one side of the island to
the other he could take to the Strait and
finish in Victoria.
* * * *
“Toe-clip”: What is reckoned about the
toughest of M.L. cycling road-races, the
Palmerston North-Wellington (102 miles),
was won this year by the limit man, W.
Hussey, a 17-year-old telegraph messenger,
who has thus lifted a foul slur from his
tribe. The course is mountainous, and the
roads were at their worst. Fastest time,
recorded by L. G. Lukey, a South Islander,
CLIFFORD LAMBERT, stroke of the
Sydney R. C. crew which represented
N.S.W. in the Henley-on-Yarra Chal-
lenge Eights.
from scratch, was shr. 34min. 20 2-ssec.
The winner, who had a handicap of 70min.,
was never passed and finished 20 minutes
ahead of the second man.
* * * *
“Richmond”: The push-bike race from
Wangaratta to Melbourne, some 180 miles,
was run on the Tour de France plan, with
all competitors starting from scratch, but
divided into three grades. O. Nicholson, the
Victorian rider who protested against Hubert
Opperman for interference in the Warrnam-
bool event, won in lOhr. 33min. 15sec. Opper-
man came down heavily with several others
at Benalla, and did not get going again in
time to do any good. The Victorian crack
has been most unfortunate in his appear-
ances in public since his return from France.
Miscellaneous
“Long Rest”: Walter Lindrum has not
taken long to acclimatise himself. In his
match in Britain against McConaeliy, the
Victorian staggered the onlookers with the
speed and ease of his play, putting the cap
on a great showing by stringing together a
break of 1083, the first four-figure compila-
tion of the English season. The match was
played at Glasgow, and if Walter can rise
superior to the influences of that depressing
city in winter time, he has nothing to fear
MRS. L. R. BUXTON, owner of High Syce,
the Queensland-bred winner of the Caul-
field Cup, and of that good performer,
Highland.
from any other atmosphere 'likely to be
encountered in Britain, giving that of Man-
chester and Wigan in.
& * * *
N. K. Lamport, of Sydney University,
who has been chosen N.S.W. Rhodes Scholar
for 1930, is just the type the Empire-builder
had in mind when lie instituted his
famous scheme, a combination of brilliant
scholar and pre-eminent athlete. A. King’s
School boy, Lamport took up engineering at the
University, and has gained high distinction
during his course, while he has been a pro-
minent figure in the social life of the under-
graduates. One of the best scrumdialves the
Rugby game has seen in Australia, he was
selected for the Waratahs’ tour of Britain,
but was compelled to decline. Since then
he has represented N.S.W. for several sea-
sons in Australia and Maoriland, while, like
his fellow footballer Alec Ross, he is also
a member of the ’Varsity cricket eleven.
* * * *
“Splash”: There has recently been an
agitation in Sydney swimming circles for
the construction of a modern standard swim-
ming pool. Years ago in the Pitt-street Nata-
torium the city possessed one, but it was
allowed to pass out. Since then swimmers
have had to be content with enclosed har-
bor baths of varying sizes, in which it is
almost impossible to achieve records equal
to those put up on the Continent and in
America, where a standardised 75-foot pool
is almost invariably used. In such baths as
Sydney Domain, with ‘their long laps, the
great advantage of the frequent turn and
kick-off so exploited by overseas swimmers
is lost, with corresponding effects on the times.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Brunswick (Vic.) is just com-
pleting what promise to be the finest swim-
ming baths in Australia, though that isn’t
saying much. Men and women will nave
separate pools, and hot and cold showers
are laid on, while in winter the swimming
water will be heated. One quaint feature
is the provision of footbaths, so placed that
it is impossible to enter the swimming pools
without first “laving one’s tootsies in the
briny foam,” as Harry Rickards used to
sing It recalls the practice in Old Country
hunting kennels, when hounds returning from
a run have to enter the kennel through a
trough of salt and water.
;J; * * *
James Taylor, of the N.S.W. Amateur
Swimming Association, can fairly claim a
time record in his favorite sport, for he was
recently elected president of the organisation
for the 20th successive term. A strict dis-
ciplinarian, James has kept a keen eye on
the activities of his association, and has been
prominent in connection with the Olympic
Games. He was one of the unofficial coun-
sellors who accompanied the last Olympic
team to Europe, where he is widely known
among swimmers and professors of amateur
athletics generally.
$ '!»
“Huon” : Tasmania is now definitely in the
ring for the 16ft. open-boat sailing-cham-
pionship of Australia, and has asked that
the event for the 1930-31 season be held on
the Derwent. Though the Tassies have only
recently cottoned to the skiffs they are boat-
builders of ability, and must command re-
spect. They had not been long acquainted
with the 21ft. restricted yacht class when
they wiped the floor with all opposition.
The championship event asked for has
already been allotted to N.S.W., but it is
probable the change-over will be made if the
Tasmanians agree to send their boats along
when the races for the title are staged in
other States.
* * * *
“Hamilton” : • There still lingers a differ-
ence of opinion between the Sydney and
Brisbane open-boat sailing men over the
dimensions of the 18-footer. For many years
the Queenslanders have been building boats
with an exceptionally big beam in propor-
tion to length, and they have proved prac-
tically undefeatable on their own waters.
N.S.W. has been pressing for a restriction
of the beam proportion, since this would
favor the Port Jackson models, and has met
with some measure of success. Now Mark
Foy lias come forward with the offer of a
cup for the 18-footer championship of the
world without any restrictions save as to
over-all measurement. The Bananalanders
reckon their case has been endorsed.
* * * *
“Jerry” : It is interesting to note the con-
nection between bowls and building. Why
supervision of the piling of one brick on
top of another should lead to a passion for
rolling up lopsided wooden globes inaccu-
rately at a small white ball, and then
adjourning for refreshments, is one of those
things no fella can understand. Of the
many bowlers to whom I have been exposed,
fully 90 per cent, are builders. Of the
balance 7 per cent, are softgoodsmen, the
tally being made up from publicans and
politicians. I have never known a bowls-
playing bookmaker.
* * * *
“Crown Green”: The adage that as the
tree’s bent so shall it lie is as true of bowls
as of safe-blowing or politics. I have just
been reading in an English bowling journal
of two folk old enough to know better who
played a singles match for a wager. One
was 94, the other 80. The nonagenarian
came home on the bit by 4 games to 3. He
confessed at the subsequent post-mortem
with the poker machine and other acces-
sories that he had been playing bowls since
he was 10. What were his parents doing?
Had he been taken in time by some child-
welfare society how different his closing
years might have been!
:jc * * *
“.Centurion” : Unless the watches are run-
ning slow up that way, the recent sports
meeting of the Royal Military College at
Duntroon revealed a slick sprinter in E. A.
Blair. The young man was clocked to cut
out the 100 in 9 9-10 sec., which is better
than we have seen in Australia for some
time. And there was a strong cross wind.
Blair took the quarter, the 220 and the 120
hurdles in addition, all in good times.
:j: * * *
“Tenakoe”: Maoriland has produced many
fine athletes, but it is doubtful if a better
all-rounder than Savidan has appeared on
the Dominion tracks. A great distance
runner, he had hard luck in bumping Rose
when the Wairarapa crack was at his top.
Rose, properly handled, would probably have
got into the world’s championship class,
and Savidan was little inferior to him—
indeed, he beat Rose in two races at Christ-
church in 1927, and ran him to a short
head in the Australasian championships at
Wellington that same year. With Rose now
retired, Savidan won the M.E. mile and
three-miles championships last season, and
the other day he collected, for the third time
in succession, the M.L. cross-country title.
* * * *
“Blue Checquer”: I doubt that yarn
about the two pigeons which did such mira-
culous times because they had been liberated
from a basket by a thief some hours before
the fixed starting time (B. 23/10/’29). Birds
on these occasions have to be checked in and
out of the baskets, and it is quite impossible
for a basket containing 12 pigeons when
shipped to be passed at the release end unless
all the 12 are there and accounted for. I
am supposing, of course, that the flight was
conducted by a registered club according to
the rules of the Homer Pigeon Association.
* * * *
Nisbet Mcßobie, who died in Maoriland
the other day at 55, was one of the best
forwards who ever wore the All Black jer-
sey. An Invercargill man, he played for
several seasons with Southland and South
Island, and was capped for M.L. against
Queensland at Wellington, in 1896. Apart
from sport he was a prominent figure in
printing circles, and at one period was con-
nected with several newspapers, including
the New Zealand Times, of ivliich he was
general manager for a period.


Known to Good Sportsmen
the length and breadth
of Australia!
Mick Simmons
for the world’s best in
SHOOTING
EQUIPMENT
•••
Famous
Single Barrel
Breech-loading'
GUNS
No. 1-HARRINGTON (SI RICHARD-
SON’S ' STEVEN’S RIVERSIDE, or
IVOR JOHNSON'S 5.8.8. E. GUN, 12G.
Top action, automatic self-ejecting, steel barrel, solid,
case-hardened, pistol grip, walnut stock; weight
about 6-2-lb 50/-
34in. Barrel 57/6 36in. Barrel 60/-
Carriage Paid.
No. S—HARRINGTON ©RICHARD-
SON’S 5.8.8. U. GUN, 12G.
32 in. barrels, similar to No. 1, but with extra heavy
breech; weight, about 71b 00/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 6-HARRINGTON © RICHARD-
SON’S 5.8.8. U. GUN, 12G.
32in. barrels; checkered stock and fore-end, matted
top rib; weight, about 71b 02/0
Carriage Paid.
“DAISY” AIR
RIFLE, 500 SHOT
REPEATER.
Lever action, for 8.8.
shot 15/-
( Postage, 2/-; other
States, 3/8)
“DAISY” or “KING”
AIR RIFLE.
Single shot, blued, lever
action, shoots darts, slugs
or shot 7/6
( Postage, 1/3; other
States, 2/2)
“DAISY” 350 SHOT
REPEATER.
Nickel-plated, lever
action .. . 10/6
( Postage, 1/3; other
States, 2/2)
The Bulletin
An Air Rifle
will teach the
Boy How
to Handle
Firearms !
The Bulletin
Price
£5/12/6
(Carriage Paid. )
The
“Speed Ring'”
Boy’s Bicycle
Boy’s Model, 1 sin. frame, built of best
weldless steel tubing, ball-bearing hubs,
ball-bearing free wheel, heavily plated
rims, Dunlop Kempshall tyres, rubber
pedals, roller chain, front roller lever
brake, three-coil spring saddle. There
is no better boy’s bicycle in all the
world to-day. Phenomenal value at the
price.
Mick Simmons Lid.
HEADQUARTERS: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
“The Leaders in Outdoor Sport and Home Entertainment.”
r
%
4
7^l
o
uimim
The basis of the
evening’s refreshment
JUST a “ Sparklet ” Syphon and box of bulbs are
all you need for serving cool, sparkling drinks
in the very best way at home.
Everybody delights in a dash of bubbling soda-
water to liven up a “ spot ” or fruit drink, and there
is no need to hoard up numbers of Syphons or bottles
when you can make an unlimited quantity with a
“ Sparklet ” and supply of Bulbs.
The latest pattern “ G ” Syphon costs only half a
guinea. It will produce sodawater at less than four-
pence per quart, and can be charged over and over
again as often as needed.
Obtainable from all leading stores, chemists and
hardware merchants.
“C ” Syphons the popular quart size - - 10/6 each
“C ” Bulbs - - ----- 3/9 per box of twelve
“C ” Bulbs - - - - - - - 1/11 per box of six
(Country prices slightly higher owing to freight charges)
SYPHONS & BULBS
ICES AND ICE-CREAM SODAS.—A “Sparklet” enables
you to make delicious ice-creams in a household refrigerator.
Write for leaflet and recipes.
Australian Depot and Repair Department: SPARKLETS LIMITED,
G.P.O. Box 753 G, Sydney, N.S.W, SK. 4
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
11
; .. . ■
■
m
4“KEMP” STYLE
i SADDLE
AT A LOW PRICE
No. 113
This saddle is wonderful value for the
money and will give you good service. It
is built on a plated bar tree with the pads
running up almost level with the head of
saddle. The leather used is flexible kip
and it has leather points down sides of
panel. Fittings included in the price are
girth, surcingle, leathers and n.-p. stirrups.
£B/8/- or £8 without Surcingle.
Freight Paid for Cash with Order to any N.S.W. Railway Station.
K’BURRA STOCKWHIPS are guaranteed kangaroo
leather right through.
Bft., 12-plait thong, 23/6; 16-plait handle, 17/-
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON, LTD.
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (Box 785 G.).


;
X
m
m
hC
' x.
%e>.
1 H 8 w
■
■ :■
! i
y.
a
HI
mm
KS
>
w
ft
>
m
£
It
I
»J
1
: I
"X
i
HI
H
:
m
1
j nijpom jiiiioi dip! oof
vmodo
J, A j_ y*
XJ H O
V 7
X Xi V f
f , a ± n v -a g
XJ O d
Boronia is yours in
pure bath crystals
or alluring soaps
that are beauty
protection in them-
selves.
For boudoir or handbag
Boronia perfume comes to
you in containers as dainty
as itself.
Boronia, that exotic fragrance of the foothills, has beef
captured for the adventurous, the seeker of the perfume \
distinctive—moderne. X *
Boronia by Christy expresses joyous youth—youth at the
first breath of Spring-irresponsible—memorable.
Your chemist or store has Christy’s Boronia awaiting you.
CHR.IS TY'S
B O R.ONIA
V TOILET SPECIALTIES
And in Talc Powder
—the same fragrance
is yours — in dainty
bottles for bathroom
or boudoir.
Q-or the Gift
rntmorabU- .
GIVE- CHFdSTY'S


7hp cen/ne of Oueens/onc/s
' c//sSinge//shed Soc/o/ Life.
moU\
BRISBANE
Magnificent Bai i-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disnosal ol
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cablet: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Lines.
The Bulletin
Welcome and Comfort Always
Await Travellers
Seasoned world travellers, experienced in the art of finding hotel
comfort in whatever place they pause for the moment, unerringly
select the Wentworth as their temporary home while in Sydney.
The reason is obvious.
The Wentworth is abreast of the times in modern conveniences
and comfort, and is personally conducted by Mrs. Maclurean,
whose reputation as a hotel director and restaurateur is world wide.
Church Hill,
Sydney.
Unde?
Royal
Warrant
The Bulletin
ToH.M.
George V
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Li mitad
SYDNEY.
Champagne
QiarlesIIeidsieCN
Reims
PELLISSOIM
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrerts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayser
SLIPPER
HELL
SILK HOSIERYO
The opening of tlie yachting season was
served with Saturday’s perfect mixture of
sun and breeze. The Royal Sydney Squad-
ron, sailing with the times, has taken the
ladies into its ranks, and now the old and
the new portions of the club-house on Kirri-
billi Point will echo to the click of women’s
shoes. On Saturday the associate members
were present in force, most of them in trig
sports suits and the wind-defying beret.
Emissaries came from the Royal Prince
Alfred Yacht Squadron, the Prince Edward
Yacht Club and the Royal Brighton (Vic.)
Yacht Club. The navy was there in force,
and cheered on the Navy League cadets in
the cutter race. Pennants streamed gaily
in the breeze, there was tea on the lawn
and dancing on the verandah. Some of
the plutocrats entertained aboard their own
luggers; and the panoramic view from the
club’s flat roof had a stream of pilgrims
all the afternoon.
The Governor, his lady, daughter Elaine
and son Graham are off for a final flutter
on the Cup. Even if the De Chair banner
flies at Government House for the extra
six months the cables purr about, the family
will be far away from Flemington when
November comes round.
How near we are to Christmas is empha-
sised by the show of the Arts and Crafts
Society opened by Lady de Chair last week.
The Education Galleries, as usual, house
the cunningly curved bowl, the painted
china, the hammered brass that are essential
items in such a display. Walls are hung
with tapestries and with batik glories in
silk and velvet, and a yellow beach umbrella
as big nearly as the Zoo has been chosen as
a walk-about by giraffes, elephants,, bears
and other intelligent fauna. A peacock
flirts a hundred green-blue eyes from an
entrancing embroidery at the entrance.
Sheffield plate makes a graceful appearance;
and the Ada Newman china still holds its
own in delicate artistry. “Some, of these
glazes might have been fired in China,” said
Public Librarian Ifould, hanging over a
show case in the first room. Mrs. V. Eyre’s
show of pottery was outstanding and
attracted the eye of the Art Gallery. A
china jug all misty blue with dephiniums
was an exhibit by Miss Blomgron, w’ho
with Violet Mace, Miss Leslie and Mr.
Lindeman will from now on be represented
by typical pieces in the National Gallery.
But it must have been a particularly hard
job for the Trustees to make their choice.
The work of even the least known members
has a radiance and beauty possibly never
before attained. ■
The Australian wLo meets Dame Nellie
Melba in England usually sends a glowing
account of the songster’s wonderful London
abode. But the habitation is always a dif-
ferent one. As a matter of fact, only once
in her long career has Melba had what you
might call a permanent residence in London,
and that was many years ago, when she
held the lease of a house in Great Cumber-
land-place. On the other hand Ada Cross-
ley soon made a real home and kept it. For
years before her marriage she had her estab-
lishment at Bickenhall Mansions, where she
gathered many interesting household gods;
and for some time past she and her hus-
band have lived in one of the finest houses
in Cavendish-square, in the West End. Here
it was her custom not only to entertain
young Australian artists and arrange dis-
criminating audiences to listen to their
music, but to hand them a cheque for each
performance.
Since her retirement from the concert plat-
form Ada Crossley has been a rather pathetic
figure, despite her luxurious surroundings.
Between three and four years ago she met
with a taxi accident which involved long
seclusion.
The belles of other days had nothing to
grumble at even if the extravagance of georg-'
•■tte and chiffon had not been invented, and
silks were the only wear of the squire’s lady.
Judging from the fragrant charm of the
frocks at the Dimity Ball last week, the
vicar’s pretty daughter probably made no
end of a hit when she arrived at the local
Harvest Home dressed in her fresh sprigged
muslin. Certainly the lasses who went to
this ball in cotton frocks made quite a name
for themselves when they appeared in print.
For instance, willow-slim and pretty Mary
Brigham, who dropped her curtsey in yards
of dimity on which was a season’s crop of
tight rosebuds; and the delightful Gwen
Moynan, who dipped and rose again from the
old-fashioned salute with a grace that won
her the first prize. Handsome Elizabeth
Plummer, w r ho organised the money-spinner
for the Barnardo hoys, wore her red-gold
prints out in the Mid-Victorian way, flounced
and beribboned in black and orange. Ethel-
wyn Kirk fluttered scarlet organdie, and tied
her gold hair up with the same bunchy
material. The ball Avas held in David
Jones’s, and, although there were over 200
dancers, the large ballroom seemed very
sparsely populated. Mrs. Gregory Blaxland
caught the eye in a frock of silk voile worked
with posies in wool embroidery.
Quite the party of the Arts Club week
surrounded the home-coming of the Murdoch
lady and Mrs. W. F. Foster, two of its
members who, after roaming east and west,
have decided that home’s best, at least
for Christmas. But Leo Carrillo snatched
the day’s thunder shortly after he and
Natalie Moya and Helen Patterson drifted
into the ballroom. He made a speech, and
Japan, where the Murdochs have been wan-
dering, set him reminiscing; but soma of the
stories he told must have made Barbara
Frietchie laugh quite merrily when she was
a schoolgirl. However, he’s so jolly the
ladies just love to have him drop into their
parties. Mrs. Arthur Scrivener, friend of
the songbird and the musician, had arranged
a programme on which tenor Harry Twigdcn
starred. Mrs. Florence Taylor was the
afternoon’s hostess.
Greet Sydney’s youngest Daniel, Mabel
Goodhart, who comes from Broken Hill by
way of Adelaide and London. The clever
girl—she is still in her early twenties —
studied law in
Adelaide, and
is a graduate
of that city’s
U n i v ersity.
After that
came London
and work with
a city law
firm. But it
wasn’t all hard
work. Her
uncle is on
the London
Stock Ex-
change, and
what with
that and hav-
ing a tiny
a p a r tment
opposite her
old S’Austra-
1i a n chums,
the Hackett
girls, whose
motlicr is now legal knight Moulden’s lady,
the budding Portia had a merry time. She
never even noticed that London was a grey
town and a wet town. Another thing
chalked up to the credit of England is that
while there she lost her freckles!
Miss Goodhart w’as one of the thousands
who crowded daily in slush and rain to see
the bulletin outside Buckingham concerning
the King’s health. So shaken was England
during this period that the just-returned Aus-
tralian still marvels when she sees the casual
way we snuggle into wraps and collect hand-
bags during God Save! Her father is the
Broken Hill etcher of such charm that many
of his works have been hung in the Paris
Salon. Head of a prosperous business in
that district of throbbing mills and steely
arcs, the poetry of the stark angles, curves
and half-curves against the sapphire bowl
that is the sky above Broken Hill, caught his
imagination; and from hard work and a
facile pencil success was born. May Moore
made this attractive picture.
Sydney is to have yet another club, the
Mayfair. This, like the Garden Club, will
include the male and the female of the
species in its membership. The club is being
planned on ornate lines, with private recep-
tion and card rooms. There will be music-
rooms, ballrooms, radio-rooms, smoke-rooms,
roof gardens and winter gardens, as well as
the usual complement of smoke and reading
rooms. When you want a cool-off from the
grandeur above stairs, you can, according
to the plans, slip down to the Turkish baths
or have a weighty conversation with the
dumb-bells in the gymnasium. But whether
all the plans will materialise depends on
what luck the promoters have with their
canvass.
The other night A. E. W. Mason’s “Four
Feathers” remained tethered to the screen
in the drawing-room of Government House
in spite of a wind that threatened to blow
the hoary building itself sky high. But,
then, the title of the picture is the only light-
weight thing about it. There’s a nice feel-
ing about Government House, and after a
taxi drive that seemed more like an aero-
plane flight there was a steadying effect
about the long oak settle with the curled-
back ends that remains for ever in the hall,
while Governors come and Governors go.
The roses this season have been remarkably
beautiful and fragrant, and the rooms massed
with red and pink blooms smelled like the
Valley of Sharon; lilac, owing to the rain,
made a poor showing, but delphiniums shone
with the deep and tender blue only possible
after wet days. Lady de Chair, her taffetas
ruffling and long, floated about rather like
a blue swan, while Elaine wore vellum taf-
fetas frilled and ankle length. She further-
more bound her shingle with a pink riband.
Aletta Lewis, in white and flowing- organdie,
suggested a George Meredith heroine. Nor-
man Kater’s lady wore golden-brown chiffons
of modern cut, and daughter Diary’s black
velvets were in step with the calendar. Pre-
mier Bavin was chaperoned by daughter
Nancy, who wore primrose chiffons._ Mrs.
Oscar Paul looked as pretty as paint, all
rose pink and sky-blue; and horizon blue
lace enwrapped Mrs. Edgar Rouse with
charm. White satin, which is to prevail
for many a moon, was worn to advantage
in its thick softness by Mrs. Claude Brown;
and Dora Armstrong (Suva) wore yet an-
other of the frocks modelled on ye ancient
lines, complete with bustle.
A cabaret dated for November 19, at the
Ambassadors, is designed to make Christ-
mas a little brighter for the 130 men and
women connected with the Industrial Bund
Institution and Braille Library; and the
institution sends out a message asking you
to please let any blind persons in your dis-
trict know that if they’d like to be taught
to read and write the Braille type, it will
land a teacher anywhere to impart the in-
struction free of charge. Miss Ethel Camp-
bell and Roy Kippax are the devoted pair
who thus labor among their sightless friends
thi’oughout the State. Last year 34 were
given eyes in their finger-tips; in all 1141
lessons were given. Herbert Thompson, too,
librarian for love, deserves three cheers for
the way he keeps up the supply of books
and Braille apparatus of every description.
It has been said that the library in William-
street is equal to any in the world.
The A. E. Graces gave daughter Marcia
away in holy matrimony at All Saints’,
Woollahra, one night last week. For days
the papers had told of a beautiful veil from
Brussels, of a fairy-princess wedding frock,
and of gifts that a Crown Princess might
not despise. All the rumors paled before
the reality. Marcia, a slim, pretty creature,
walked the aisle in the magnificence of white
satin inlet with Brussels point and sown
with pearls. A surf of Brussels lace veil
frothed over the long satin train, and there
were orange blossom, lily of the valley and
pale pink orchids to pile up the bill. Sisters
Joan and Beryl, with Phyl Magennis and
Jean Graham, ’maided in chartreuse green
moire frocks made with transparent hems,
finished at the hack with large bows of
green lined with silver. Buckled shoes in
the same green as their frocks, green hats
and tiny platinum watches were other im-
pedimenta sustained by the pictorial four-
some. The lucky ’groom wafting to claim
the bride was airman Rupert King, of Potts
Point. Dr. Stanley King was best man, and
Esmond Wiltshire, Gordon Ross and Reg
Lacy the ’groomsmen. Villa Igiea, the
Graces’ home at Vaueluse, was giddy with
electrics all through the night following the
knot-tying. Pyramids of red and yellow
lights reared high above the house and
grounds. A floral aeroplane hovered over
the bride and her ’groom. One of the bride’s
presents was a thousand shares in Grace
Bros. These came from uncle J. N. Grace;
a bar-brooch of diamonds came from the
bridegroom, and the employees of the firm
had pooled the week’s cigarette andi sweet
allowance to pay for a glittersome set of
crystal cocktail glasses, wine glasses and
decanters.
This is a picture of Harold Whitridge
Davies, the new man in the Chair of Physio-
logy at Sydney Uni. Until this appointment
he had been since 1926 Lecturer in Physi-
010 g y and
P h armacology
at the Univer-
sity of Leeds.
Dr. Davies is
still another
product of
Adelaide, be-
ing the eldest
son of Profes-
sor Harold
Davies, and
one of its
year - 1917
graduates in
medicine.
Then he went
to the war,
w T as a captain
A.A.M.C., and
later a re-
search assist-
ant to John
Scott Hal-
dane, who has
a further claim to fame as being the father
of the author of “Daedalus.” Then Davies
passed on to the department of therapeutics
at Edinburgh with Jonathan Meakins, of
Montreal, and did further research work for
the Rockefeller Institute. In conjunction
with Meakins he is author of the breath-
taking romance “Respiratory Function in
Disease,’' and on his own account has pub-
lished numerous papers on experimental
medicine. With his coming will appear a
rival to the aesthetic Radcliffe Brown; for
this professor, too, is interested in modem
art and literature. His father was Adel-
aide’s first graduate in music (and, of course,
Adelaide had a Chair of Music long before
any other Australian uni.), and has been
for many years head of the local Con. Son
Harold will score over Radcliffe Brown in
that he is a bachelor, which blessed state he
fondly believes is a permanency. But, then,
he has never lived in Sydney.
No sooner had it got Marcia Grace off
the slips the other night than All Saints’
prepared to do its best for Lorna Arnott, of
Point Piper. Yards and yards of ivory tulle
went to the fashioning of this bride’s wed-
ding garment. The wash of tulle train
was followed by Heather Arnott, Joy Man-
ning and Irene Strelitz in peacock frocks of
flame georgette. Richard Manning, of
Edgecliff, was the. bridegroom. Mr. and Mrs.
W. Arnott later received nearly 200 guests
at the Prince Edward Yacht Club.
Without an effort, Ellen Stack, who has
just left the advertising staff of Hordern
Brothers, got more than ordinary publicity
out of even her wedding. The Waldorf,
where the reception was to be held, was
burned the night before; but as one room
had escaped flood and fire, Ellen decided to
carry on. After she had become Mrs. Stir-
ton J. D. Duffy, of Dubbo, she and
her ’groom hied them to the ruins and
received congratulations at the address
given in the invitations. Some of the credit,
of course, goes to the cafe assistants, whose
hard work made the party not only possible
but decorative.
The postponed wedding of Joan Osborne,
of Sydney, duly took place last week in St.
Mark’s, London, Captain Alistair Macln-
tyre, the ’groom, having recovered from his
bad attack of malaria- —after everybody
had begun to whisper superstitiously about
the ’maids’ frocks being green. However, it
went off happily, after all, though neither
page nor ’maids changed the color.
Attractive Margot Macarthur Onslow,
only daughter of the F. A. Macarthur
Onslows, of Macquarie Eields, Camden, has
got herself engaged in London, which city
she is helping to cheer up. The young man
in the case is Michael King, of the Great
Royal Deccan Horse, youngest son of the
late Colonel S. H. King. The twain met
last year when the soldier was here on fur-
lough—part of it he spent with the big
Camden clan. Father was on hand to
administer the “bless you.”
Caro], eldest daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
W. B. Busby, of Gara, Armidale, and Harold
E. Rudd, youngest son of Mr. and the late
Mrs. W. H. Rudd, of Rockhampton (Q.),
have decided on Love’s Old Sweet Song as
a life duet. Carol’s engagement-ring is par-
ticularly handsome.
A noted visitor to Sydney is Mrs. Hen-
rietta Irwell, one of the leading figures in
Anglo-Jewry and well known for her acti-
vities in various Jewish and non-sectarian
charities in London. Children’s welfare
work claims her special attention, and in
Palestine the work of the Women’s Inter-
national Zionist organisation has her active
support. This body is responsible for the
agricultural training of women and girls.
Fifty-two Macleay-street is her Sydney
address.
Mrs. A. B. Shand, wife of the leader of the
N. S. Wales Bar and herself a distinguished
citizen, died suddenly on Sunday night. She
was a born organiser, and had helped every
great charity in the State with either money
or advice or both; but her particular care
was the Deaf and Dumb Society. She leaves
a barrister-son and three daughters.
The Bush Book Club flung out the net
last week and landed 1500 books, over 1300
magazines and 1900 illustrated papers. The
library circulates around 2550 centres, and
wherever the books go the memory of Mrs.
Aubrey Withers, the club’s founder, is
blessed.
The District Nursing Association’s new
home, Montana, at Glebe Point, is throwing
open its doors on Thursday evening, when
the Social Auxiliary, with Edna Davidson
as lion, organiser, will indulge in a Hallow-
e’en party. For some weeks past this busy
girl has spent all her spare moments after
office hours in fashioning decorations.
Hundreds of yards of white wallpaper have
become a happy hunting-ground for cats,
owls, bats and wide-eyed pumpkins in many
shapes and sizes. With these the walls of
the dance- and supper-rooms will be hung:
and as masks arc compulsory the effect
should be as eerie as the committee desires.
OVERHEARD.
A Pretty One : “I had my fortune told, and
the woman—she’s a crystal-gazer and so clever —
saw me having a very serious illness when I was
forty-five.”
A PijAin One ( sweetly ) : “And was she right?”


Along the straight
undeviating line of
development comes
this new leader in
performance and
value.
1:1 i tfil: M
Overshadowing even present-day Republic stan-
dards for highest attainment in engineering
design, and heralding a new era in the trim,
vigorous beauty of its appearance, the Republic Fleet-
master fully meets the requirements of a wide and varying
class of truck users. A leader in performance and value,
the Fleetmaster is built to haul tonnage throughout truck
life at the lowest cost per ton mile.
Perfectly balanced throughout, super-powered with a
smooth, husky, six-cylinder engine, and with generous
over-strength built into every unit, the Fleetmaster is a
distinct engineering triumph, from the high, beautifully-
designed radiator to the sturdy rear axle.
The whole array of engineering advancements which are
to be found in the Republic Fleetmaster are the result of
La France-Republic’s many years of truck-building
experience.
Unit by unit, everything about the Fleetmaster adds right
up in the proht column.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177-185 William Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114 Franklin Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle & Motor
(Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek & Adelaide Streets,
Agency,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Raseh Motors, Ltd..
69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Republic Truck Sales Co., Ltd.,
905 Hay Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND:
Tnglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki & Cable Streets,
Wellington.
Factory Representatives: W. A. CRO W L E L T D., Crowle House, York Street, Sydney.


2
£>.\
K°JP
>x» ta*
v > i > <
<>'
O'
Accommodation
160.
Central,
Comfortable,
Convenient,
5 Mts. G.P.O.
Excellent
Cuisine,
Billiards,
Dancing.
ORIENTAL HOTEL
(No License)
KING’S CROSS, SYDNEY.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET.
TARIFF:
Weekly,
£3/3/- to
£4/4 1-
Daily,
11/6 to 12/6.
Room & B’fast,
8/6 to 9/6
FL2034
F 3575
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
THE WORLD’S LARGEST COMMERCIAL FORESTRY CO.
SUBSCRIBED SHARE CAPITAL £240,718
SUBSCRIBED BOND CAPITAL £3,425,000
FUNDS LODGED WITH TRUSTEES £410,000
k BANK OF NEW ZEALAND AND THE[R AGENTS.
HEAD OFFICE: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
SOLE BROKERS: SMITH WYLIE & CO., LTD.
Australian Branches at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Townsville, Perth and Newcastle.
New Zealand Branches: Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch and Dunedin. And at 36-38 New
Broad Street, London, E.C.2; Bombay, India; Singapore'; Kuala Lumpur, Federated Malay
States; and Hong Kong.
SYDNEY OFFICE: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
BEFORE SNOW
GOES-
\
GO TO | i
JU II I .
wn
%su GOVT TOURIST BUREAU
QUEENS WALK-MELBOURNE
ob U APT IN PLACf SYDNEY
WILL GLADLY APRANGL ALL DETAILS
PARADISE PLUMES
By GILBERT MUNRO TURMBULL
by □
CHAPTER XXVI ( Continued ).
GABUBU was far astern and the launch,
running sweetly, was steadied on her
course to Laubogi before Blake
opened his lips. He spoke with studied
politeness, as though he had been casting
round in his mind for something non-
controversial to say.
“There’s a lone canoe ahead coming this
way”—he nodded to the steersman, who
swung the wheel a couple of points to star-
board and steadied her. “We’ll bear down
upon her. Perhaps it is some native look-
ing for me.”
The canoe was cleaving the water at a
good speed, the paddler swaying from side
to side with vigorous strokes.
Blake stared; then grabbing the wheel
from the steersman he swung it hard over,
and the launch sheered off.
The lone paddler was Loana. She cut
deliberately across the course of the launch.
“Goo-day, Mis’ Bileki!” she called out.
“Good-day, Loana!”
Blake frowned, then almost immediately
his face cleared. The girl, of course, was
going on a visit to her aunt, the wife of
Sergeant Babaka.
“Mr. Turver was very kind to me once,
Stephen,” Lesley remarked suddenly. “I
hate to think of him living as—as he does.”
“I have no use whatever for fellows like
Turver,” Blake responded sourly.
“He is not wholly worthless, Stephen,”
Lesley colored faintly. “I think you ought
to put it to him to—to marry that unfor-
tunate young girl he —he lives with.”
Blake coughed. “Young girl!” he ejacu-
lated.
“Yes. That very bold young person who
has just passed,” Lesley said pointedly.
A gasp of amazement came from Stephen
Blake.
“Er—er—of course,” he stammered. He
searched her face for any expression which
would guide him to her state of mind. She
was obviously quite serious. “You are right,
Lesley,” Blake agreed firmly. “I shall
speak to the fellow most seriously.”
So Sam Turver, too, had sought to soften
the blow, or to divert it altogether, by
claiming Loana as his own! He resolved
never again to regard Sam as wholly bad.
The launch glided to her moorings at
Laubogi and came to anchor. Lesley stepped
into the dinghy. Her heart was fluttering,
her limbs were trembling, every instinct
in her recoiled from the ordeal that awaited
her ashore. Blake sat in the cockpit. He
would go ashore like a shot, he told him-
self savagely if Merton refused Lesley a
hearing.
The dinghy returned. Blake watched
Lesley sombrely as she ran up the entrance
steps. He waved an encouraging hand as
she paused, turning, on the verandah. He
saw her look round, then open the door of
her husband’s room. There was a scream
as she stumbled blindly on to the verandah
again; then, turning a stricken face in his
direction, she crumpled on the floor.
CHAPTER XXVII.
Conclusion.
Blake and Sergeant Babaka were in the
dinghy pulling frantically for the shore be-
fore the echo of Lesley Merton’s scream had
died away. They took the front steps at
a run.
A glance into the bedroom was enough.
Lying on a camp stretcher, his face dis-
torted, lay Harry Merton. The barbed point
of a black-palm spear projected through his
chest. He had been dead for some hours.
Shocked and shaken, Blake made a hasty
search of the bungalow. In the kitchen,
lying on his back alongside the cold stove,
was Gaduweli. He was sound asleep, but
whether his slumber was real or feigned
Blake could not determine. Gripping the
sleeper by his woolly mop, Blake hauled
him to his feet.
“Loana stop here night time?” he hissed.
“She bin stop,” quavered the cookboy.
“Las’ night she bin come. Morning time
she bin go ’long canoe.”
Blake grasped the frightened native by
the elbow, and led him to the bedroom.
At the sight of his murdered master, Gadu-
weli’s face turned grey with fear.
“True I talk, Taubada!” he said very
earnestly. “I no savee.”
“Shut up!” rasped Sergeant Babaka
harshly.
Lesley, sobbing convulsively, lay face
downward on a lounge. Blake came to a
decision.
“Sergeant,” he barked, thrusting Gadu-
weli forward, “handcuff this man.”
Gaduweli lifted his voice and howled.
“Peace, foolish one!” growled Sergeant
Babaka. “Does not the big Gavamani know
what is best?”
Lesley sat up, red-eyed with weeping, but
now quite calm.
“It is a clear case,” Blake said gravely.
“I’ve had a fear all along that something
like this might occur. Gaduweli hated his
master”
“Gaduweli!” Lesley gasped. “Not—not
little Gaduweli, Stephen?”
“Yes, unhappily. They are treacherous,
the Suaus. Under stress of the blood-lust
they are capable of anything, Lesley. Some-
time in the night, mastered by unbridled
passion, he cut a hole in the split-palm
floor under the bed, and speared poor
Merton while he slept.”
They buried Harry Merton under the
palms in the clearing. The police carried
the body to its shallow grave, and Blake,
the white-faced widow by his side, recited
the service for the burial of the dead.
The simple rites over, they returned to
the silent bungalow.
“I came here with bitterness in my heart,
Stephen,” Lesley quavered. Her face, heavy
with trouble, was turned pleadingly upon
him. “Bitterness and hate and uncharitable-
ness. He was my husband, Stephen, my
lover once.” She buried her face in her
hands.
Blake left her with her sorrow. There
still remained a task for him to perform.
In the store-room were many camphor-
wood boxes secured with heavy padlocks.
Blake demanded keys. Moragi, quivering
with fear and apprehension, produced them
from his pouch.
The bayonets of the police kept the too-
curious native laborers at a respectful
distance, while Blake and Sergeant Babaka
made a bonfire of the contents of the
camphor-wood boxes.
Lesley Merton was quiet and composed
when Blake again sought her.
“We can do nothing more, Lesley,” he
said very gently. “I will place a guard
here until—until other arrangements can be
made. If you will point out the things you
treasure, the police will pack them for
you.”
“And—and what then, Stephen?”
Blake’s eyes evaded hers.
“The Siai, I think, Lesley. To-night she
will anchor at Matapoka. That is a good
eighteen hours’ steam from here. The
launch can make it by daylight to-morrow,
with luck. Do you follow me, Lesley?”
The girl nodded dumbly.
“You must get away, Lesley, without
delay. The Siai connects with the Moratau
at Moresby, and you can get aboard and
out of the country without any publicity.
The authorities at headquarters will know
nothing until—until I report.”
“You have been very kind and thoughtful,
Stephen, as always,” she broke in tremu-
lously.
The police fuelled the launch and pro-
visioned her. Blake made Lesley comfort-
able in the cockpit and went forward. He
sensed that for the next few hours his
charge would prefer to be alone with her
thoughts.
The launch got under way. Blake squatted
on the fore-scuttle among the police.
An hour passed; two hours.
Abruptly Blake rose and, moving aft,
muttered an order to the steersman. The
launch swung inshore. Blake stood motion-
less, gazing abstractedly at the palms show-
ing in stately silhouette against the sky.
“I’m afraid you’ll have to wave your
farewells to Gabubu, Lesley,” he said. “This
weather can’t last, and the Siai lies a
hundred and thirty long miles ahead.”
A little sigh escaped her.
“Whatever you say, Stephen,” she replied
wearily.
They passed the Gabubu bungalow at
full speed. Blake caught the flash of Tod’s
binoculars as the launch sped by. He could
almot sense the old man’s perplexity at
their mysterious passing.
The launch swung in to the Government
jetty, slowed down and stopped, engines
pulsing.
“Take the prisoner ashore, Sergeant,”
Blake whispered. “Guard him well —and
don’t talk.”
Lesley shuddered as the trembling cook-
boy was hustled ashore; but she turned her
back upon him resolutely and fixed her eyes
on the far horizon.
Dark shadows lay on sea and sky when
Blake went back to her. They made a
pretence of eating, both conscious of un-
bearable constraint, both afraid to put
their thoughts into words, both conscious
of the now well-nigh insurmountable barrier
which had reared itself between them.
The sun set in a blaze of glory and night
descended. Lesley shivered as the chill
night air struck her and he wrapped blankets
about her. They must have dozed, for the
next thing Blake knew the launch was
racing under the impulse of a squall from
the north-west. Lightning crackled and
flashed in blinding blue sheets and over-
side the sea boiled and seethed. The police
were huddled aft, munching ary biscuits.
Lesley clung to Blake in fear.
They made the Siai at daylight.
Captain Barstow was already on the
bridge, the anchor chain was clanking
through the hawse-hole when in sailorly
fashion Blake ran the launch alongside.
“A narrow squeak, Captain,” he shouted.
"Mrs. Merton will take passage with you;
she has changed her plans.”
He followed Lesley up the hanging ladder
while the police held off the bobbing launch
with a boat-hook.
Barstow descended from the bridge. His
weatherbeaten face registered astonishment.
Blake flashed a warning to Lesley, and they
left the skipper’s curiosity unrelieved.
Lesley’s water-soaked luggage was slung
aboard and Blake drew the skipper aside.
“I’d be obliged to you, Skipper,” he
whispered, “if you’d return that letter of
mine I handed you the other day. I do
not wish it to be delivered now.”
The mystified skipper nodded and with-
drew.
Lesley was sitting sunk in dejection on
the forward hatch. Her hands were clasped,
pain and suffering dwelt in her eyes. Blake
took the letter a ship’s boy brought him
and thrust it into his breast pocket. His
eyes were on the deck. He felt suddenly
cold and cramped. He turned round_ stiffly,
as if he were an automaton on a string, his
face set and expressionless.
“This, Lesley,” he said tonelessly, “is
good-bye!”
He heard her catch her breath quickly
and saw the look of sudden fear that filmed
her eyes.
“Good-bye, Stephen!” Her voice was like
a sigh.
Blake turned on his heel and took a
stride to the rail. There was a sound be-
hind him, a little moan, a quickly-stifled
cry. And then:
“No, Stephen! No, no! Not like this,
Stephen!”
Blake wheeled. He saw the delicate oval
of her face and her beautiful, tear-brimmed
eyes. A gust of emotion shook him. So
lovely she was, so sweet and piteously weak.
The barrier crashed. He held her in his
arms; timidly she nestled to him, and
yielded her lips to his kiss. No searing,
soiling kiss of passion this —all the decency
in Stephen Blake cried out against it; a
pure and chivalrous kiss, a blessed kiss that
told them both all they wished to know.
On the bridge the skipper blew his nose
violently.
$ ♦
It was court day at Akupaka. On the
verandah and in the compound native liti-
gants, witnesses, offenders squatted on their
haunches, chewing betel-nut and reflecting
upon the madness of white men.
Stephen Blake, R.M., white-clad, cool,
radiating efficiency, sat at his table.
Sergeant Babaka, an immobile figure in
red-braided blue, stood stiffly at attention
near the door.
“Open the court, Sergeant,” Blake ordered.
Babaka’s full-throated formula brought
the waiting natives to their feet.
There was a short silence.
“Sergeant!” barked the R.M. suddenly.
“Yessah!” Babaka went rigid.
“Release Gaduweli. Give him food and
tobacco—much food and much tobacco—
and send him back to Laubogi.”
“Yessah!” and Babaka departed on his
errand. He returned in a few minutes,
saluted smartly and stood waiting.
Blake was sunk in thought. Lesley was
in Port Moresby now. To-night she v'ould
sleep aboard the Moratau homeward bound
for Australian ports. But she would come
back she would come back!
“Loana here, Sergeant?” Blake inquired
at last. . .
“Yessah,” answered Babaka. “She is m
my house with my wife, her kinswoman.”
Blake’s face set. “Bring Loana in,
Sergeant!”
The End.
“Merry Christmas!” starts here next week.
If you want a good, entertaining yarn, with a lot of humor and human
nature in it, read “Merry Christmas!”
It will, besides, give you the finest picture ever put into a yarn of the
cattle country of North Queensland.
It is so up-to-date that the great aerial service of the inlands of Australia
figures in it; and along with it Queensland’s matchless bush motor-ambulance
service.
Read it and tell somebody else about it. That is the most practical way
in which you can help good, honest Australian literature.


Tried
For more than 136 years public
opinion has endorsed the value of
Rowland’s Macassar Oil as a means
of keeping the hair in perfect con-
dition and preventing thin or grey
hair.
anil’s
MacasgarOll
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, London, W.C.1.,
ENGLAND. C.t.f.67.
In bottles, of
0 h e m i sts,
Stores and
H a i r dressers.
Red for dark
hair; golden
for fair or
grey hair.
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
contains everything that women
should know —from kitchen to
drawing-room, from cradle to
old age. It is the most remark-
able threepenny - worth ever
printed.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR
3d.
The Bulletin
Also Hosiery, Woollens, etc. Cash’s Names are
unsurpassed for the Household, Traveller
School Outfits. Any name woven in fast
s
Will Last
a
For a
Lifetime
“A Few Stitches and They’re on”
Saves
Loss and
Trouble
<o.^/3 c WTMlam&'
Actual Size, Style No. 6
The Price# are Moderate
12 doz. 7/6, 6 doz. 5/-, 3 doz. 3/6
SOLD BV LEAPING DRAPERS,
Write for Name Style Circular to
J.&J CASH Pty Ltd
8S Cubitt Street. Richmond
Melbourne
The Bulletin
naMEs
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
P[?] Contral 800 for [?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
Forecasting Melbourne’s weather is more
difficult than picking the winner of the Cup.
Up to about lunch-time on Saturday, it was
gloomy and cold and a dismal Henley seemed
probable. Just when there was a last-minute
switch to real hard-service umbrellas instead
of festive paper ones, and winter coats were
donned, out came the sun with amazing
warmth. The river maidens were able to
recline in summery sleeveless, frocks among
the gay cushions of canoes painted red, blue,
yellow and vivid pink, paddled along by
cream-flannelled youths. Against the new-
foliaged trees along the Yarra, the crowds 01
gaily clad onlookers looked like bright flowers
banked to the water’s edge, and the scene
was charming. About the palm-grown en-
closure of Henley lawns the patronage was
not as great as usual, but it cost three bob
to get into the section where the decorated
house-boats were moored, and that’s a con-
sideration in these times. The thousands
outside saw the regatta just as clearly as
those who had deck-chairs in the reserve, or
were guests at tea on the picturesque craft.
Considerable ingenuity was used in the
decoration of the canoes. One. represented
the Zambesi —tall palmtrees at bow and stem
shading a thatched hut. A tiger skin, crim-
son flowers, some dark figures and a paddler
in white linen and sun helmet gave atmos-
phere. Those on the water were armed with
the usual medley of musical instruments--
gramophones, * ukeleles, and so forth and
some folk took along portable radio sets and
listened-in to the results of the last Moonee
Valley race as they glided along. On the
lawn a talkie-film apparatus made a record
in sound and picture.
Mayor Luxton’s houseboat, long and
narrow, with an ivy-covered pergola in the
centre, had a color scheme of royal blue and
old gold and scliizanthus and other foliage
plants formed a continuous window-box all
round. Mrs. Luxton was in chiffon of brown
tones, topped by a matching straw hat. Lord
and Lady Craigavon came on to take tea
after seeing the Gold Cup race at .Moonee
Valley, and the Stonehavens also joined the
party, having their four o’clock refresher on
the Henley Association’s yellow-and-blue-be-
decked houseboat with Colonel and Mrs.
E. M. Semmens, who deputised for the presi-
dent, knight George Fairbairn. Among the
guests of the Lud Mayor were General
Chauvel and his lady and their daughter
Col. Vaughan, of the Commonwealth Bank,
and Mrs. Vaughan, Mrs. Hugh Ward, from
Sydney, the H'. 11. Smiths, the Richard Lin-
tons, Mrs. George Langridge and her daugh-
ter Mrs. Hackett, from Adelaide, and the
Morell lady and daughter Sheila.
The outstanding features of Moonee Valley
racecourse on Gold Cup day were red roses
and a huge crowd. The roses climbed over
the fence bordering the straight, and there
were more roses from chairman Alister
Clark’s garden casting fragrance over the
official luncheon table, at which the G.-G.,
Lady Stonehaven and Lord and Lady Craig-
avon were chief guests. Her Ex. had a light
silken dust coat over her sapphire blue crepe
de Chine gown and wore a beige hat. Vis-
countess Craigavon was in black and white
with a chic black satin hat. Mrs. Len Bux-
ton, who saw her horse Highland just pipped
on the post by Nightmarcli, wore an ensemble
of China-blue and white spotted crepe de
Chine with a drooping straw hat. Mrs.
Rupert Downes favored the new blue in her
three-piece, and Mrs. Leslie MacDonald was
tailored in fawn with a felt hat to match.
After several months of illness Mrs. A. V.
Kewney, wife of the V.R.C. secretary, made
her reappearance. Mrs. Fred Thiel mingled
black and beige and Mrs. Lauchlan Mac-
kinnon, Mrs. Rogers Thomson and Kathleen,
Ben Lempriere and Mrs. Olive Leonard were
among the well turned out. The craze for
coat-posies of fresh flowers gave a gala air
to many a sombre frock, lilies of the valley
disputing with carnations and roses for most
popularity.
Though there was a very wet finish to
the afternoon, the combined sports day of
the public schools was pronounced wholly
successful. Melbourne Grammar rejoiced
greatly at securing the championship which
notched the school’s 12th win. The G.-G.
and Lady Stonehaven were onlookers. Mr.
and Mrs. E. R. Burgess and the A. E.
Kimptons combined forces and gave a hop
at No. 9 for the young friends of their
respective daughters, Leiia and Bay. Mrs.
Burgess wore black lace and chilfon, and her
co-hostess was in ninon patterned in green
and brown White taffeta with a glow of
pink beneath, scattered with tiny pink roses
and dewdrops at intervals, was the choice of
Bay Kimpton, her elder sister Marjorie
wearing a graceful gown of mole velvet with
sparkling embroidery about the bodice.
Leila Burgess sported spring-like raiment of
chiffon and lace draperies of leaf green.
Marion Montgomery’s annual dance,
always vastly relished by the schoolboy and
-girl and the flapper, drew about 800 to St.
Kilda Town Hall on Sports Night. (Col-
lege songs, chanted with tremendous enthusi-
asm by lads and lassies from the various
public schools, helped to make the evening
cheery. Proceeds went to the Animal Wel-
fare League, the committee of which lent
a helping hand to Miss Montgomery and
her sister, Mrs. C. Lort Smith. The presi-
dent of the A.W.L., Mrs. Norman Brookes,
was there in draperies of rnby-red lace,
accompanied by her three daughters. Mrs.
James Purves, hon. sec., came with daughter
Valerie, and among the helpers were Mrs.
Fred Krcrouse, Mrs. Frank Andrew and
Mrs. Harold Clapp, the last-named in
bracken-brown lace. The girls, who were
charmingly dressed, had some junior officers
of the Australia among their selection of
partners.
The photomaton caught this glimpse of
Betty Paterson Newman, whose snappy
drawings of
children regu-
larly ado r n
the pages of
The Bulle-
tin. She re-
turn e d last
week after six
month!?
abroad, hav-
ing filled in
the period
motoring u p
the east coast
of Britain from
London to
Dundee, an d
back by way
of the west.
She had also
a few weeks
on the Con-
tinent. II e r
small daugh-
ter, he r
mother and Mr. and Mrs. George Gill —Mrs.
Gill is artist Esther Paterson —formed the
touring party. While in England, Mrs.
Newman did a good deal of work for Pear-
son’s publications and found that The
Bulletin is a potent password to editors.
Wherever she went she made sketches of
youngsters. Next year she will hold an
exhibition of her gleanings, which her sister
will supplement with landscapes in oil and
water-color.
Dr. Jean Greig, of the Victorian Edu-
cation Department, was given a farewell
luncheon at the Lyceum Club by her co-
worker Dr. Eileen Fitzgerald on her depar-
ture for a holiday in England. Dr. Fitz-
gerald will carry on the good work while
Dr. Greig sets out by way of ’Murca. The
meal, which was laid on a polished oak table
scattered over with marigolds in crystal
bowls, was largely attended by men, who
included Minister for Education H. I. Cohen,
and Dr. Dale, health officer.
Dr. Jean Greig had to attend yet another
farewell party to speed her holiday journey
to Europe via ’Murca. This time it was
a gathering of members of the Medical
Women’s Society that assembled at the
Lyceum Club for the four o’clock refreshing.
Dr. Ellen Balaam, president of this bunch
of women doctors, presented the traveller
with a crocodile leather bag, along with
some flowers. Drs. Constance Ellis and
Eileen Fitzgerald joined in the chorus.
Leg. Council President Frank Clarke said
the preliminary words at the spring show of
the Royal Horticultural Society at the
Town Hall and found the task con-
genial. Enumerating some of the tri-
umphs of Vic. gardeners, he mentioned
that T. W. Pockett, of Healesville, was
known to English nurserymen for his choice
chrysanthemums, and Stinton and Sons, of
Geelong, were world-famous for their suc-
cess in the rearing of ranunculi. The
exhibits included some lovely early roses,
striped and speckled tulips of vivid hues and
quantities of irises. Parks-and-gardens Cura-
tor J. T. Smith turned the stage into a bank
of gorgeous gloxinias set amid the pansy-
faced flowers and feathery foliage of schiz-
anthus, and flanked by miniature maple-trees
shading from copper to green. Some of
the Iceland poppies on show were delicately
bordered, and their tints ranged from white
to a deep rose. An unusual entry was a
Sturt’s desert-pea in bloom, the plant being-
trained on a frame. Its red-and-black blos-
soms would make a brave display massed in
a garden. Yellow, purple and maroon lupins
figured in another section.
Bridge is to be made a permanent source
of income for the Lud Mayor’s Fund. Mrs.
Lief Due, of East Malvern, a keen player,
has suggested that all bridge players—and
there are thousands of both sexes —should
band themselves into one big philanthropic
body under the title of the Ace of Clubs,
pledging themselves to contribute sixpence
to the fund on every occasion they play.
Members will be enrolled on payment of a
shilling for an enamelled Ace of Clubs ram-
pant, and the legend “Charity First.” Speci-
ally designed stamps will be given as receipts
for the sixpences of players, and books con-
taining a pound’s worth will be distributed
to members who, on .disposing of the lot, will
pass the proceeds to the fund. Mayor and
Mayoress Luxton are very taken with Mrs.
Due’s suggestions, and a sub-committee is
being set up to put them in operation with-
out delay. At a bridge party to be given
by the originator at the Quamby Club to-day
the Ace of Clubs will be launched, and its
rules and regulations formulated.
Mrs. J. B. Stevenson poured, tea for
several guests at the Alexandra Club on
Thursday afternoon, the gathering serving
as a welcome to Mrs. W. M. Kerr and the
hostess’s au revoir to Melbourne. Commo-
dore and Mrs. Stevenson and family are
due to depart for the Harbor City at the
end of the week. He has been appointed
Captain-superintendent of Garden Island
and will reside at Tresco, Elizabeth Bay.
Since Rear-Admiral Napier left Australia
the Commodore has been acting as first
member of the Naval Board pending the
arrival of Rear-Admiral Kerr.
“Brewster’s Millions ” on Saturday night
got a boost through the fire at His Majesty’s
destroying the yacht for the big storm scene,
necessitating its being rebuilt in 36 hours for
the opening performance. A crowded house
gave the revival a great welcome. The yacht
rocked as realistically as when the cruising
party was headed by' the late Tommy King-
ston many years ago, with Mrs. Robert
Brough in the co. The ladies of the cast
wore nice clothes, and the modern miss can
get some helpful suggestions from the even-
ing gowns of the first act. Actor-manager
Gordon had to wade through piles of flowers
to say his thanks. The Charles and John
Tait families occupied boxes, other first-
nighters being Mrs. Charles Wenman, the
George Russells, Mrs. F. Lloyd, the Weston
Petts, and the Herbert Smiths.
On Thursday evening William Dearden,
of Brisbane, gave his only daughter, Alison
Irma, into the safe keeping of Edmund Lind
say Gordon, eldest son of Admiral Creswell
and his lady, at St. John’s, Toorak. The
bride was arrayed in white satin, with
train embroidered in gold, and a rare old
lace veil. A very youthful quartette of
’maids comprised Eunice Umphelby,
Suzanne Fraser, Fay Stoddart and Jean
Yeneken, all crowned with wreaths of
gilded leaves and wheat-ears to blend with
their pale amber-tinted frocks. At the
after reception, at the home of the E. D.
Yenckens, Toorak, Mr. Dearden had the
support of the Admiral and his lady, she
in black lace.
Aileen Isabel Ramsden trailed white geor-
gette and silver tissue attached to a gown
of white satin and lace along the aisle of
Christ Church, South Yarra, on Thursday
to murmur “I will” to Alan Finlayson Dun-
bar, of Ivew. Lime yellow georgette clothed
the two attendant ’maids, whose shady straw
millinery and sheaves of yellow tulips were
in harmony. Mr. and Mrs. S. H. Rams-
den invited guests to an evening reception
in harmony. Evening reception at No. 9.
Here is Patricia Dawson, who came from
England with her mother the other day to
be secretary and coach to the South Yarra
Tennis Club.
She was sec-
retary of the
I n ternational
Sports Club,
at Montreux,
S w i tzerland,
the chairman
of which was
Col. McNeile,
o t her wise
“Sapper,” the
creator of
Bulldog Drum-
mond. Miss
Dawson’s
knowledge o f
tennis was
gleaned at the
R o e h ampton
Club, where
she was tutor-
ed by such ex-
perts as Mrs.
Beamish an d
Mrs. Larcombe. At 14 she was runner-up
in the Middlesex Junior Championship and
in 1921 she was runner-up in the girm
singles at Roehampton, winning the event
in the following year. In the Surrey cham-
pionships in 1923. after beating Eileen Ben-
nett in the semi-tinals, she met Gwen Sterry
in the final and was vanquished after a close
struggle. Miss Dawson’s mother is of the
clan of the Argyle Campbells, and it is
from her father, for some time M.P. for East
Leeds, that she inherits her blue eyes and
black hair.
A recently-announced engagement is that
of Dorothy, eldest daughter of the George
Russells, of Edzell, Toorak, and Richard,
only son of Mrs. Lawrance, of Kinnouli,
Toorak, and the late Neil Lawrance.
From all parts of the Commonwealth, at
the call of Mayor Anderson and his com-
mittee, old residents of Horsham nocked
back to their home town, and for a week
were entertained lavishly by the warm-
hearted Wimmera folk. An illustrated his-
tory of the town showed its progress m SO
years. Westralians were particularly in
evidence. They left Horsham to help in
the opening up of Coolgardie and Kalgoorlie.
The fly in the ointment was that the chief
citizen and organiser—“Dave” to everybody
—had to go to bed the day before the special
trains steamed in, laid low by an attack of
quinsy.
From ’Frisco comes the news that Mrs.
G. F. Raillieu, mother-in-law of Sydney
Myer, the Melbourne emporiumist, contem-
plates matrimony with an eligible bachelor
of middle age from Detroit, U.S.A., who
arrived in Sydney last week. It is said they
will live at Ferny Creek, near I erntree
Gully (Vic.), before returning to the land
of jazz and bootleggers. Sidney Myer has, it
is alleged, bought a magnificent home near
San Mateo (pronounced Mat-ay-oli), jio
miles from ’Frisco, to which he retires perio-
dically with his wife and four children. He
has a penchant for buying homes.in America,
and several years ago acquired a fane estate
near Reno, Nevada.
Admiral W. M. Kerr, who is to take up
residence here for three years as first mem-
ber of the Naval Board, arrived last week
with his wife and son. Until they get a
home of their own the Kerrs are flat-
dwellers in Melbourne Mansions, Oollins-
street. Mrs. Kerr is a gracious, pleasant
woman who doesn’t look old enough to have
a son going on for 17. She says she finds
Toorak and its people “very English. Her
brother, Admiral Anderson, was here a tew
years ago as Commodore of the Australian
Squadron.
We have had such an influx of titles lately
that the social columns of the dailies have
looked like snipping!* from the Queen. Hie
recently arrived Viscount and Viscountess
Craigavon put up at Monzies for a few
days and then moved to Federal Government
House as guests of the G.-G. and Lady
Stonehaven. The visitors intend staying
here with their son until after the Vup.
and they will then go to Sydney As first.
Prime Minister of Northern Ireland, Lord
Craigavon takes his job very seriously and
is doing his bit to boost Ulster's industries
by pushing Belfast linen. W hen a loca
emporium staged a special show of it, Lord
Craigavon gave an address _on the famous
damask, and asked _ Australians to give it
preference over foreign wares. Should any-
one feel like giving him a posy they should
choose the blue flower of. the flax—that s
his favorite. Lady Craigavon takes an
interest in politics and is president of the
Ulster Women Unionists’ Council.
The Donald Mackhmons and daughter
Marie, who had Lord and Lady Somers
as fellow-travellers on the voyage home,
finished their Continental journeymgs with
an inspection of sunny Spain. On their
return to London, Mr. Mackinnon collected
Australian friends and lunched them at the
Savoy, Mr. Leitch and Mr. Macartney, our
lately exported Agents-General, being among
the guests.
Gregan McMahon presented John Drink-
water’s “Bird in Hand” at the Palace
Theatre on Saturday night, and met with a
good reception.
Mrs L R. Buxton, owner of High Syce,
winner of the Caulfield Cup, sent a cheque
for £lOO to the Lud Mayor’s fund.
Outside H'is Majesty’s Theatre on Friday
morning there were but few signs of any-
thing unusual, save that the bevelled-glass
panels of the doors of the d.-c. and stalls
had been smashed. But inside the havoc
of the fire was appalling. One small crumb
of consolation for the Firm is the fact that
appreciation of theatrical fare is at its
lowest just now and no great amount et
lucrative business is likely to be lost during
the period of rebuilding.
Federal Government House junketings
during Cup week will include a ball on
November 6 and a garden-party on Novem-
ber 8.
It seems a pity that the Malolo’s American
millionaires didn’t time their Melbourne visit
so as to catch this city during the Cup
Carnival. They will arrive two weeks later,
when the reaction leaves us rather duller
than usual. The Canberra visit seems to
be the star item on their programme, but
with the Lodge closed and retrenchment m
the air, a gay time isn’t to be expected there.
The A. B Andersons, of Brisbane, who
are here for the Cup, have received encour-
aging reports of their pianist daughter,
Audrey, who is studying in Leipzig unde)
Max Pauer. According to Sliura Cherkas-
sky, by whose advice she went abroad tm
training, she is fulfilling all his prediction
of her. Nancy Weir, who is going to Europe
this month, is another of the youthful Kus-
sian’s protegees.


I
fills
\
VAUXHALL
PERFORMANCE
DRIVE
THE
■ CA R •'
in
Xll y-f*
ffl " . i
.
' X ' -
;■ ■ ■
'
■Hi I mmmm
»|S§ jy’V J
■Hi
I
X<xx.: IpllSl® Stt Plißl
’’ u y X
H li| Hi
X .
THE most fascinating thing about the VauxhalPs
high average speed is that you don’t have to try
to go fast! No forcing the pace ... no hurry.
Simply drive normally, comfortably, smoothly.
You are not conscious of unusual speed. Yet all the
time a high-powered engine is driving high-ratio gears.
Rapid acceleration is bringing you up from a crawl to a
dash in a few seconds. You are going round bends
faster than usual, for there is no sidesway to
make you slow down. You are making a high
average speed ... in comfort . . in safety.
In safety . . . for your brakes can
bring you to a standstill from 60
miles an hour in three seconds!
GENERAL MOTORS
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Brisbane :: Sydney :: Melbourne :: Adelaide :: Perth.
:
ml
OH
M
:
...
V
sms
o
he imonovec
VAUXHALLSIX
-of a loncj B lue b Loocbd Line
Metropolitan Distributors:
And in motion or at rest the Vauxhall is a
picture of grace, with its fluted bonnet, its distinguished
coachworh.
The huge financial, research and engineering
resources of General Motors, by providing the newest
and most efficient equipment, have enabled this fine
car to he built and sold at notably moderate prices.
The Vauxhall chassis is built of 97% British
material and with 100% British Labor.
To fully appreciate Vauxhall perfomance you must
drive the car. Your nearest Vauxhall
dealer will be glad to arrange a trial run.
PRICES from £595
Prices given subject to change without notice.
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR
Convenient Payments can be arranged on the liberal
G.M. A.C. Terms Plan.
BRISBANE . . . METROPOLITAN MOTORS, LTD., ADELAIDE STREET
ADELAIDE MANN’S MOTORS, LTD., FRANKLIN STREET
SYDNEY KIRBY, LYONS, LTD., WILLIAM STREET
PERTH MASTER MOTORS, LTD., MILLIGAN STREET


Some ol the finest old cut gloss, prized By collectors,
was made in earlier days By Stuarts ol Stourbridge,
England. Descendants of the very craftsmen who
made it are making glass as Beautilully to=day. Below
is a group from a modern Georgian pattern service.
Each piece—which can be bought
separately has the name
'Stuart y etched on the glass.
n
m
mm
t
r
English Hand=made Crystal
Obtainable wherever beautiful glass is sold
hair
V
$■
NEED
r
HERES
•umw -
u
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
SfrClUaris CMEXICANJ
Vkdnut Siam.
''REMOVES THE GREY *
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (-5/6), 6d. being postage.
4zss£k
fP
You Don’t Know
what to send your friend for a Christ-
mas gift. Next week The Bulletin
will print the opening chapters of
“Merry Christmas!” one of the highly
commended stories in the Prize
Novel Competition. You couldn’t send
anyone a more appropriate Christmas
gift. No story ever written gives a
more vivid picture of the great cattle
country of the North or a truer account
of the way it is worked and the men
who work it. The opening chapters
will reach England and most overseas
countries just before Christmas. Send
us your name and address, with the
name and address of the friend to
whom you want it forwarded, and we
will post it with your compliments
and good wishes.
Overseas, three months, which will
complete “Merry Christmas!” 8/-; to
any address in Australia or New
Zealand, 7/-. Six months (which will
include Vance Palmer’s “Men Are
Human”), 15/6 (overseas) and 12/6
(Australasian). Twelve months
(which will include also two prize
stories in the next Bulletin £2OOO
Novel Competition), 80/- and 24/-.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original
Amusements,
CYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
** J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: SHOW BOAT
(Commencing Saturday next).
CRITERION: BOMB AUDI, LTD.
PALACE:
J.C.W. WORLD’S ENTERTAINERS.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
* MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
ROYAL: HOLD EVERYTHING
(Commencing Saturday next).
J\|EW COMEDY THEATRE,
LEON GORDON in
BREWSTER’S MILLIONS.
K'fNG’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
WHOOPEE.
UOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
* 1 MELBOURNE.
See and Hear All Talking Sensation,
BLACK WATER.
With MARY BRIAN and .TACK KIRKWOOD.
ALSO
RONALD COLEMAN in
THE RESCUE.
BROS.’ CIRCUS.
Greatest Show on Earth.
GRAND JUBILEE YEAR.
OLYMPIA, MELBOURNE.
Positively closing November 19.
ALL NEW ATTRACTIONS.
Including the Greatest Pure White Polar and Brown
Bear Act in the World, at a cost of £5OOO.
Positively seen at Every Performance.
Prices: 2/-, 3/-, 4/-, 5/-; Chairs, 6/-, plus tax.
Reserved Chairs, 8/-, plus tax.
Plan at Glen’s.
Nightly at 8 p.m.
Matinees: SATURDAY, WEDNESDAY and all
HOLIDAYS.
Educational.
SCOTCH COLLEGE,
TORRENS PARK, MITCHAM, S.A.
A BOARDING and DAY SCHOOL for
Boys. Headmaster, N. M. G. Gratton,
8.A., Dip. Ed. (Melbourne). Professional.
Commercial and Agricultural Courses.
Prospectus and further particulars may be
obtained from the Headmaster or the Sec-
retary, W. D. C. Paton, P.P.1.A., A.M.P.
Chambers, Adelaide.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Quiet —Restful—Cool—Open to the Summer Sea Breezes. With Private Beach and Amphitheatre
Baths. Incomparable for comfort—Excellent Cuisine and Service. Spacious Grounds and Garage
Accommodation.
Tariff from 4 a guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip Dorn City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: YSOI2 (4 lines).
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenstands
Distingushed Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Sir John Goodwin has been in the Daiby
district, staying with W. A. Russell at
Jimbour House and presenting the Foster
Cup to the Jandowae Light Horse Troop,
the winners for the third year in succession.
Brigadier-General Foott and Colonel F. M.
Lorenzo went with his Ex.
Her Ex. went to see Vincent Sheldon’s
exhibition of paintings and etchings opened
by Premier Moore in the Gainsborough
Gallery.
Lady Goodwin, Mayoress Jolly and Mrs.
Longman attended a welcome given by wives
of members of the Master Bakers’ Associa-
tion to conference delegates in the Y.W.C.A.
rooms. Blue and white flecked georgette was
worn by her Ex., with a black satin beaute
coat and a black hat. Mrs. Jolly wore rose
color and Mrs. Longman was in blue and
silver. Mrs. Bedgood, the president’s wife,
chose black crepe de Chine with Oriental
embroideries.
Premier Moore’s wife did the opening cere-
mony for the Mcllwraith Croquet Club
house, wearing navy blue georgette and lace
with a wide brimmed black hat. She received
a bouquet from little June Fisher, as did
Mrs. Jolly, who was there in beige crepe de
Chine. Croquet and bridge were played, and
Mrs. Moore presented the prizes won during
the year.
The city branch of the C.W.A. had a
morning tea for Mrs. M. F. McCaffrey in
the association’s rest room, which was deco-
rated with bowls of snapdragon and amaryllis.
Pale pink carnations decked the tea table.
Mrs. J. P. Peterson congratulated the guest
of honor on her husband’s promotion to
Sydney, and said the C.W.A. would be sorry
to lose her. Mrs. McCaffrey was presented
with a sheaf of blue and white lupins tied
with the colors of the association, and Mrs.
Peterson received a bunch of pink radiance
roses.
The knot between Lionel Vererest Seaton,
of North Crusoe, Muttaburra, elder son of
the late C. V. Seaton and of Mrs. Seaton,
Mount Cornish, and Jean, only daughter of
the J. S. Cockburns, of Bowen Downs,
Aramac, was tied at the station homestead,
the bride wearing ivory ring velvet with a
Limerick-lace veil and orange blossoms. St.
Joseph’s lilies and fern made the bouquet.
Iris Geary ’maided in blue ninon. Over a
hundred guests were feted in a marquee on
the lawn.
Memories of the Quetta disaster are
stirred by the golden wedding of the John
Urquharts. They came from England on her
in 1889, and it was on the return trip the
vessel was lost. Born in Huntly, Aberdeen-
shire, they were married there in 1879, Mrs.
TJrquhart being a Mackenzie! They had four
children when they left Scotland and three
more were born in Australia. Mr. Urquhart
helped to erect the Victoria Bridge and the
Treasury Buildings.
Captain Bob Cowlisliaw, who hails from
the Old Dart, and Roma Betty, only daughter
of Capt. and Mrs. D. A. Scott, New Farm,
were married in St. Andrew’s Kirk. The
bride’s array was shell-pink satin beaute
with a V of silver tissue, a veil of pink cut
tulle, and cap of Limerick and orange
blossoms. Maida Duncombe ’maided in lemon
mariette with a lemon ballibuntal hat
trimmed with a large pink rose. Her shower
bouquet was of roses, pink gladioli, lemon
iris, orchids and pink carnations.
Queensland women wish to erect a
memorial in Anzac-square to those who fell
in the Great War. Two drinking fountains,
the work of Daphne Mayor, are to be in-
stalled and 100,000 shillings are to be
collected.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Wonderful weather helped to make the
garden party given by the Mayoral Bony-
thons a success. Victoria Park, with its
streamers of pennants and gay bunting,
impressed Admiral Evans and the officers
of the Australia and Canberra, who were
guests. The present craze for flowered chif-
fon and figured crepe de Chine added bril-
liancy to the scene. Afternoon tea was served
in the large'rooms beneath the grandstand
and in huge marquees on the lawn. Nora
Stewart’s pupils did Morris dances on the
grass. Mrs. Bonython wore a French model
of black georgette with wide tucks on skirt
and bodice, and a wide-brimmed black lace
straw hat. Betty Bonython was frocked in
pale-pink floral chiffon, topped by a beige
straw hat. Mrs. Wallace Sandford" sported a
Buckingham Palace creation in beige lace and
chiffon, and her large black hat had an open
lace brim of beige.
The Girls’ Friendly Society drew a large
crowd to the Exhibition Building when they
presented an Anglican Church pageant, “The
Quest.” Saintly ladies of all periods were
introduced. It was a little surprising to
find Queen Elizabeth in such a company. A
worthy lady and an able ruler, but scarcely
qualified for canonisation.
The Lakeman Institute, the gift of F. A.
Lakeman to the Missions to Seamen, was
dedicated by the Bishop of Adelaide and
opened by his Ex. in the presence of Rear-
Admiral Evans and officers of the Fleet.
It is one of the finest buildings of its kind
anywhere, is built on Tudor lines, and cost
£9OOO. A chapel and other rooms are still
to be added. In the evening Mr. Lakeman
was responsible for a Fleet Ball at the insti-
tute, which gave joy to the sailors.
The Australia got in ahead of the Can-
berra, and there was an impromptu dance
on the flagship before the arrival of her
sister which was a delightful affair. An
engagement betweep pretty Margaret New-
land and an officer on the Canberra lent
romance to the visit.
Mrs. T. R. Scarfe was hostess at a garden
party at her beautiful old home, Eden Park.
Marryatville, in honor of her guest Dame
Mary Barlow (president of the Catholic
Women’s League). Several hundreds were
present. Afternoon tea was served in a large
marquee on the lawn. The hostess was in
black marocain, with touches of bois-de-
rose, and Dame Mary chose a wine crepe-
de-Chine toilette and black hat. Mayoress
Bonython was there in a beige ensemble and
small hat to tone.
An American tea held in Mrs. Andrew
Smith’s garden helped to swell the funds of
the Lower North Adelaide Kindergarten.
Stalls were arranged upon the verandah,
and music was supplied by wireless.
WESTEALIA.
Perth.
The Girl Guides’ blue uniforms were spick
and span for the rally at the Royal Show
Grounds. Nearly 1000 marched around the
track, while Lady Campion, State Commis-
sioner, took the salute. After the parade
came the competition for the shield pre-
sented by Mrs. Ernest Lee Steere for physi-
cal training, semaphore signalling and first-
aid, for which there were so many entrants
that the afternoon proved too short for
all the companies to give a display. Chief
Justice McMillan’s lady, president; Miss C.
Bull, country organising commissioner; Mrs.
R. T. Robinson, metropolitan commissioner;
and Miss R. McWlmc, State sec., were among
those who welcomed Lady Campion.
Two hostesses gave big bridge parties last
week. Mrs. English Clarke, recently re-
turned from abroad after an absence of many
years, greeted a crowd of bridge and mah-
jongg players at the Esplanade Hotel, wear-
ing a striking geometric-designed ensemble.
Barbara Clarke assisted in a fringed scarlet
frock and becoming beige hat. Mollie Lear-
month’s party was held to fSte Edith Moffitt,
who is visiting Perth on her way from Eng-
land to t’other side of this continent. The
guest of honor’s lafge ballibuntal hat sur-
mounted a printed-fawn georgette, and the
hostess wore leschenaultia-blue crepe de
Chine set about with panels and topped by
lemon and blue headgear. Mrs. Learmonth
chose floral effects in warm brown tonings.
There’s been quite a boom in the engage-
ment market of late. Guida Anne, the J. L. B.
Weirs’ second daughter, has booked an altar
date with William Morrison, of Knights-
bridge, S.A., and Betty Howden Brockman
has one with Bill Andreas, of Cottesloe.
Freda Treadgold sports a new third-finger
adornment, the gift of Seddon Vincent.
The Tregonnings are leaving Claremont,
to the sorrow of the residents. Heaps cf
farewells have been staged, among them a
dinner for the doctor given by the Suburban
hockey team. The Molloy home was chosen
to house the festivities, and Fred Hammond
made a presentation of a grandfather clock.
The Eagle tons instigated another party for
both Dr. and Mrs. Tregonning, which was
equally cheery.
Marjorie Stevens sported a pretty figured-
chiffon trousseau frock at the party given in
her honor by the Sharkey sisters as a pro-
logue to her wedding with Bill Gavan Duffy.
Gifts were showered. Competitions were
conducted by Jo Sharkey in vivid red and
white French voile, and sister Peggy in navy
crepe de Chine.
TASMANIA.
H’obart.
The Philharmonic Society is lucky in
having as president the lady whose profile is
here shown.
Mrs. Alan Mc-
Intyre re-
ceived her
musical edu-
cation .at the
Berlin Con.,
where she was
a fellow-
student of the
famous so-
prano Frieda
Ilempel. She
was familiar
in her earlier
years with the
methods of- the
leading orches-
tras and the
greatest con-
ductors in
Berlin, Vienna,
Paris and Lon-
don, and took
the opp o r -
tunity of studying these again on her recent
trip to Europe.
The O’Grady and daughter Margaret were
guests at the Old Hobartians’ dinner at
Hadley’s, when the official table accommo-
dated also President P. H. Mitchell, Premier
McPhee, Speaker Evans, Director of Edu-
cation Brooks and his better half, Mrs. and
Miss Mitchell, Miss O. Mahoney, and Gen.
Sec. A. W. Potter and his wife. There
was dancing afterwards at the Continental.
The staff dance of the General Hospital
was held at the Continental, when about 140
guests were welcomed by Matron Gluyas, the
sub-matron, Dr. V. R. Ratten, Dr. Carruthers
and Dr. Gaha. His Ex. was there. Pretty
frocks, good music arid a tip-top supper made
the affair one of the brightest of the season.
rainters Mabel Hookey and Isobel Oldham
and Dora Hookey, whose camera studies
show what photography can do in the hands
of an artistic manipulator, held an exhibition
of their work at the Continental. Mabel
Hookey, who found most of her subjects on
the eastern shores of the Derwent, also
showed some gleanings from her recent
travels in Europe. Premier McPhee launched
the show.
Rupert, eldest son of the Louis Shoo-
bridges, was married in Melbourne recently
to Sara Georgia, daughter of Mrs. A. E.
Walkeden, Armadale. The wedding was a
quiet one, only relatives and very intimate
friends being present. Bushby Park, the
bridegroom’s estate, is one of the most
beautifully situated of the Speck’s home-
steads, and will look its best in this spring
weather for the bride’s homecoming.


A Word for Australia
The Bulletin’s new serial “Merry
Christmas!” will give people on the
other side of the world a splendid
picture of life on a North Queensland
cattle station.
It will give a picture, too, of the finest
type of Australian bushmen and of the
work they have to do and how they
do it.
No better gift could be sent to a
friend. The first two instalments of
this serial will reach England before
Christmas.
The Bulletin with every chapter of
this great Australian novel will be sent
for three months overseas for Bs., and
to any address in Australia or New
Zealand for 7/-. Six months (which
will include Vance Palmer’s “Men Are
Human”), 15/6 (overseas) and 12/6
(Australasian). Twelve months (which
will include also two prize stories in the
next Bulletin £2OOO Novel Competi-
tion), 30/- and 24/-.
HIGH BLOOD PRESSURE /
High Blood Pressure, frequently the result of “nerves,” is a disease of our civilisation, and
generally attacks people between the ages of thirty and sixty.
“Nerves,” insomnia, dizziness and head pains are frequent symptoms of High Blood Pressure.
The well-known Sydney Chemist Mr. W. J. Rogers has prepared a home treatment for High
Blood Pressure which has proved invaluable to many sufferers.
Containing no drugs, easy and pleasant to take, Pressure-Dyne is safe for the most delicate person
and is most efficient in its action, as this letter indicates.
Cremorne, Sydney,
2J,/9/’29.
I have been suffering from, High Blood Pressure for several years, with severe head paws
and insomnia. Since taking Pressure-Dyne, however, I have noticed a great improvement.
1 have not had a sick or dizzy turn, or the slightest headache for six weeks, and I get a good
night’s rest every night, thanks to the Pressure-Dyne berries.
It has been really wonderful for the insomnia.
MRS. D. GRAHAM.
The excellence of Pressure-Dyne in High Blood Pressure, for soothing the nerves and in cases of
insomnia, is well known, and it soon brings the High Pressure down to a safe level.
Sufficient Pressure-Dvne for six weeks’ continuous treatment costs only 20/-. If you can’t call
and get it personally from Mr. Rogers, all you have to do is to pin a £1 note to this
advertisement, with your name and address, and send it to Mr. W. J. Rogers, Chemist, George
Street, Sydney, opposite the G.P.0., and Pressure-Dvne will reach you by return mail, with full
directions for use; [or by Y.P. Post if desired].
Startling Innovations at
Eli
'/wir
Dancing till 1 a.m.
EVENING DRESS OPTIONAL.
A La Carte Service.
Minimum Charge 7/6.
Afternoon and Evening
Mr. Ernest C. Rolls’s New York
Cabaret Revue.
Popular Cabaret Teas
Monday to Friday 2/6
Saturday 4/-
’Phone M 4131 for your reservation.
The Crown of the Revolution.
THE LITERARY SECTION OF THIS WEEK’S “BULLETIN” IS DEVOTED TO THE POETRY AND PROSE OF DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT
LEFT BEHIND HIM FEW UNPUBLISHED MSS.
THIS ONE, A FANCIFUL STORY OF CENTRAL EUROPE, WRITTEN IN
MR. WRIGHT’S LAST DAYS, HAS ALL THE GRACES OF HIS BEAU-
TIFUL LITERARY STYLE.
THE groom looked insolently after the
king, turned the coin in his hand, spat
upon it, and thrust it into his ragged
hose. To-moi'row or the next day there would
be a new master, but to-day he was equal
to those he had so long served.
It was after the battle of Teschen, and
the year was 1342. Ferrol VIII. of Pallardia
had played his last card, and the game was
lost. Every vestige of his power was gone;
and now there remained of his kingship
nothing but the danger that beset him.
With a small leather-covered casket
strapped on the saddle before him, he rode
towards an old hunting-box in the mountains.
That casket contained the famous silver
crown of the Pallards —a relic infinitely old
and fantastically wrought by some primeval
worker of metals with signs and emblems of
a forgotten faith. The precious stones which
adorned the thick rim were badly cut, but
of enormous size, and told of a day when
the Pallard wealth and power were such
that the ends of the earth had been ransacked
to add to the splendor of the king.
With the crown were ancient parchments
written in crabbed Latin script, and so
withered with years that the brown of the
skin had turned to black, on which the
writing was only decipherable by holding it
sideways to the light.
For Ferrol those parchments had still a
melancholy interest and he regarded them as
a last trust. They had once been the charter
of the kingdom, but now the whole country
was in the hands of the Poles; the indepen-
dence of the little State, which had been
maintained unbi’oken for a thousand years,
was at last utterly gone; the flower of the
Pallard chivalry lay dead on the field; and
Ferrol himself, the last of his race, nursed
a bitter wound under the plain leather tunic
which made him appear an undistinguished
traveller on the upland road. The hills
through which he passed were cold and bar-
ren and offered no temptation to the spoiler;
and he rode unmolested to the low, dark
house of stone on the mountain-side.
In the utter ruin that had fallen upon his
kingdom the high country was almost un-
tenanted. The village below, which had
once flourished under the patronage of his
ancestors, had scai-cely a roof remaining;
and old Karn, the herdsman, with his wife
and daughter, made the total population.
Karn knew the king, but he swore an oath of
secrecy, accepted the new order of things and
never referred even in his own household to
the resident on the hill as other than a
herdsman like himself.
So the great world rolled on in battles
and crownings and dethronements, in the
march of knowledge and the march of armies;
and neither former subject nor foreign states-
man heeded what had become of the last
monarch of a broken race.
Ferrol kept a few sheep and cattle; and
in the mountain summers that were full of
peace, loved and won Anna, the daughter
of old Karn. The gild went to her lover as
a peasant bride; and her fate was happier
than that of the women born in the old
castles of Pallardia. There was a son of
the marriage whom they called Peter; and,
after that, twenty Peters in succession lived
and loved and died in the old house on the
hill. Not one among them all could read or
write, but many of them had seen far places.
For little kings and grand-dukes and great
kings and emperors called men even from
the high mountains to fight their battles in
the valleys below. Five Ferrols had died in
war—Ferral was now the family surname
and the local priest had altered the spelling
by changing the vowel; but that mattered
nothing to any illiterate Peter or Anna if
the sheep did well and there was cheese to
take to the markets of the villages.
Yet there was something about the Ferral
men which made them different from other
mountaineers. When the first Peter was
twenty-one years of age his father had taken
him into a small room in the old house, a
room with a massive oak door and a great
bronze lock in which the key turned harshly
and angrily. There in the soft gloom, broken
by the sombre light from very high barred
openings in the old stone walls, Peter had
sworn an oath of terrible solemnity and had
seen and worn for a moment the wonderful
thing to which all his after-life tuned. It
was the silver crown of Pallardia—a high
tarnished circlet which alone remained to
remind Peter’s father of the greatness to
which he had been born.
Every Peter for twenty generations set
that crown upon the head of the next Peter
after he had taken the dread family oath.
Outwardly they were only a peasant family
concerned about sheep and cows, but. each
Peter, in his own fashion, went as a king.
For after the putting on of the crown came
the tale that gave the wearing of it a mean-
ing. Solemnly each Peter recited to his son
the work of some lost prophet far back in
the dead years: “The kingdom of the Pal-
lards shall fail; but a Pallard shall yet wear
this crown over a greater kingdom.” And
so to each Peter each new Peter born carried
the nossibility of some strange splendid thing
beyond his own understanding.
The twentieth Peter learned to read; and
because he could read, .the family tradition
had a wider and richer meaning. That is
why the line of Peters came to an end and
the next son was named Julius.
Peter dreamt great dreams as he watched
little Julius at play. He heard the people
in the village curse the Hapsburgs—for the
village had grown populous in the centuries
and now there was a great hotel for tourists
in its straggling sti'eet. Ali when little
Julius grows to be a man ! There would bfe
no need to curse the Hapsburgs then. Even
the great Czar and the German Kaiser and
the King of the English, they would all leave
and listen while little Julius said the word
that was good for the people.
Then the Great War came, shaking all
Europe, setting the thrones rocking and
filling the village below with weeping. So
many soldiers fell, so many soldiers were
needed, that Julius, before he was eighteen,
was swept away into the turmoil. Peter sat
and brooded on the hill, for he was alone
now. His wife,
died long ago and
there were sxo
other children.
What was Julius
doing? Had the
princes and gen-
erals seen the boy
and marked him
out for promotion?
Perhaps he was a
general himself
now; perhaps
But a great fear
came to Peter very
often and over-
. shadowed all the
rest of his imagin-
ings. If the boy
should die, if he
should fall out
there in that ter-
rible fighting, never
having -worn the
silver crcwn, never
having sworn the
oath! Old Peter
waited with all a
peasant's patience ;
but his heart was
very ill at ease.
And then came
the news of Aus-
t r i a n disaster.
There had been
plenty of Austrian
disaster before
that, but only tid-
ings of constant
victory had pre-
viously reached the
remoter mountains.
Now the truth was
slowly coming
through. Peter
heard of Russian
revolution, of Aus-
tria in ruins, of
Germany broken
THE LATE DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
before the angry
French and the terrible English, and
all men shuddering before the coming
of the Americans from beyond the ocean.
The war had really l-eached its very
last stage, but to the mountaineers it
looked as if the horror were only beginning.
The conquerors would soon be there, flushed
and maddened with victory. The western
soldiery would pour over Europe in the time-
honored fashion, destroying, burning, ravish-
ing, gathering all the bitter fruits of war. It
seemed to Peter that the empire of Julius
was postponed ; it must surely come, but not
yet.
. It was partly the fear of that which was
about to happen that slackened previous re-
straints among the mountain people, partly
the whisper of revolution from the cities.
There were several robberies in the village,
and Peter lost three sheep which he could
not trace. The old man was puzzled ; events
were moving too fast for him. Where was
Julius? Julius ought to be home. To-
morrow was his twenty-first birthday, and
lie was not back. Peter put oil on the old
lock. It must turn easily when Julius entered
in for his secret coronation.
The revolution made great headway. The
soldiers of the Emperor had 'set up the red
flag; the great nobles were in flight. There
were new wars everywhere and conflicting
stories of the results of battles. Orators
stood up in the village and passionately
preached freedom ; Peter only sat and brooded
and waited for Julius.
Turmoil broke out in the village itself.
There was fighting in the long straggling
street and some of the men Peter knew were
killed. The big hotel for foreign tourists
had long been closed, but now from the roof
there fluttered a flag—a flag as red as blood,
but so small that it seemed ridiculous as a
decoration for so huge a building.
And then Julius came home—came home
splendid and triumphant, riding at the head
of a big regiment of revolutionary volun-
teers. A boy from the village brought the
news to Peter an hour before his son actually
arrived; and the old man stood by the door-
way waiting with the great key in his hand.
It was a ragged and rather noisy rabble
that marched on foot after Julius; but the
old man glowed with pride as he saw his son
ride up the hill. He wore a scarlet sash over
his tattered Austrian uniform, and the red
cap of the revolution was on his head. His
followers had made good use of their time in
the wineshops on the route. They were merry
and ribald and there was little pretence of
order in their going; but there was no mis-
taking the honor in which Julius was held.
He was one of the generals of the revolution,
a man of their own peasant rank who hated
both the kings and the middle classes. He
was brave, too, and knew a great deal about
war. Three times he had led them to easy
victory ; yet he asked for no more than the
rest and took the rough and smooth as they
came.
“He will be President yet,” they said, “our
comrade Julius.”
They followed him as a guard of honor to
his father’s house and they made much of
Peter; but Peter, though courteous with a
peasant coui’tesy, had eyes only for his son.
Julius had come home as a conqueror; the
old word was coming true.
Then father and son went into the inner
chamber; and while they w<3re away two
mules came up the hill with more wine and
strong spirits—-spirits that had been takeu
from the cellar of the big tourist hotel where
the red flag was flying. The soldiers of the
revolution drank and cursed the Hapsburgs
and cursed the aristocrats and cui-sed the
middle class and cheered for the peasantry
and the revolution and Julius. They were
all about the door in noisy picturesque groups
when Julius himself came out with his eyes
glowing, wearing on his fair head the silver
crown of the Pallards.
It was the first time for nearly six cen-
turies that the ancient emblem and great
rude gems had seen the full light of day.
Peter after Peter had worn that crown in
the secret gloom of the stone chamber; but
Julius was different. It was fitting that he
should keep the crown, keep it and wear it
always before all the eyes of the world.
Already the old man saw in the tall boy at
his side the full promise of the years amply
fulfilled. Why should there be any more
secrecy ? Let the people see their future
Emperor. Yes, Julius was different, different
as his name. All the others had been merely
the keepers of the truth for him.
The crowd about the doorway laughed and
cheered. Julius was having some kind of jest
—they did not yet know what, but laughter
was evidently in place, and shouting is
always in place where revolutions are making.
Julius raised his hand for silence ; and the
noise fell away into curious quiet.
Simply, but with the kind of natural
oratory that always held them, Julius told
the story which liis family had kept for
twenty long generations; and Peter, his
venerable white beard giving him a strange
dignity, stood by with a proud hand on his
son’s shoulder. There was the light of a
great enthusiasm in the young man’s face as
he said: “I am a peasant; but if there is
good luck in this old piece of silver I will
wear it till I can offer the trinket to the
republic.”
They cheered that; and they cheered more
and more when Julius took off the crown
and pinned the red cap above it. They lifted
up their cups and drank to him; and they
formed a great circle and sang the song of
the revolution—a wild, hoarse chorus of
ribaldry and hate.
They were still singing when a rider came
up the hill heavily belaboring a great hairy
farm horse into a clumsy gallop. The horse-
man shouted something, but in the tumult
his message could not be heard; and only
when Julius had twice lifted his hand for
silence and the rasping chorus had been sung
to its last syllable did the meaning of the
rider’s haste become clear.
Julius looked grave. Forty miles away the
revolutionary forces were in dire peril, and
aid was required at once to save an important
position. The young leader looked on his
flushed and mirthful soldiers. Forty miles
to march and real fighting at the end of the
journey! No one knew better than Julius
what these rough fellows were capable of.
In their present mood he could have led them
to an attack on a force ten times their
numerical strength without a fear that one
among them all would do deeds of less than
desperate valor. But forty miles of march-
ing with the wine gone cold in them—that
was another story.
Yet prompt action was needed. The
rough soldierly rhetoric which Julius always
had at command served his purpose. The
fire of a prophet was in his eye; the watch-
words of the revolution on his lip. The
crowd surged, fell into something like mili-
tary order and shouted its courage.
“Lead on!” they cried. “Lead on, com-
rade Julius ! We’ll show them ! Down with
the middle class! Down with the people who
eat up the poor!”
They made a fierce enough showing, those
ragged followers of a noisy cause. There
could be no doubt about their earnestness of
purpose, no doubt about their faith in the
boy whose eyes held them. But forty miles
of marching! Julius felt his heart sink even
as his thrilling voice made light of fatigue
and danger.
“Down with the middle class! Drink dam-
nation to the tyrants!”
Hastily the wine was drained to the last
dregs, the bottles emptied and thrown down
with a smashing sound, as if each clatter
of glass meant the fall of a system and a
throne.
If only that forty miles could be reduced
to four! Julius took a tender farewell of old
Peter and mounted his horse.
“Lead on ! Down with the middle class!
Down with the aristocrats !”
Slowly the leader rode before them down
the hill" and the ragged regiment followed,
roaring the song of the revolution to the
uneven tramp of feet.
The sun was beginning to set. Peter sat
at the door of his house and- watched the
rabble following his son. Shouting, singing,
crying curses on their enemies, they passed
away in a cloud of sunlit dust; and the old
man saw everything glorified, saw the dis-
orderly crowd as a magnificent army sweep-
ing on to victory. Before them was the
splendid figure of his son towering above the
rest, the silver crown on his head, with the
red cap of liberty above it, and one great
jewel flashing red lightnings out of the
dust.
Within two hours the march steadied into
silent, dogged monotony. At dusk a camp
was made in a small village where shelter
was hard to obtain and food was scarce.
Some of the men lay out in the street, and
(Continued on page 52.)


OVERSEAS TRADE
i kii
DEPARTMENT OF
fyisit
BRITAIN’S
SHOWROOM
Australian Buyers in every class of
trade can see the products of Great
B ritain in the trades in which they are
interested, collected under one roof
in either London or Birmingham
at the
BRITISH
INDUSTRIES
FAIR
For further particulars and cards of invitation
apply to the British Trade Commissioners at
Sydney or Melbourne-
fiQ mm
/^2
m
UGHTING MODES
FROM AMERICA
An attractive electrolier is the central
feature of the room and completes the
good impression of walls, pictures and
furniture. So do smart wall brackets
for rooms or hall. We are showing
some handsome designs of both with
either upright candles or cluster bulbs
of great beauty, embodying French,
Spanish and Colonial period motifs, the
latest ideas from American homes.
You’ll see them at
DANKS’ DISPLAY OF
ELECTROLIERS AND BRACKETS
Prices are favorable. Call and inspect.
k
oVt-
A
11111111 l
®<[J
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
391-403 ROURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
the night was cold. In the morning there
were many murmurings; but they went on.
The plan Julius had in his mind, and which
he halted his followers to explain, was to
cross a lofty spur of the ranges and so
greatly shorten the distance to their objective.
The climbing to the summit of the ridge
would be long and arduous, but the descent
would be easy, and they should be able to
surprise the enemy by a sudden attack upon
his unguarded rear. The men heard and
assented without enthusiasm. Even their
hate of the middle class could no longer put
vigor into their stride.
After the halt the men settled into a
morose and dogged slouch. Hour after hour
they straggled behind their leader, and the
sun was hot. Every eye was strained for
a glimpse of the little town at the foot of
the mountain ridge. There would be wine and
welcome there ; and after that even the climb-
ing of the high range might not look so bad.
But the miles seemed to lengthen out beneath
the blistered feet, and the ragged column
choked itself with its own dust. Occasionally
during the long day some weary man bending
under pack and rifle would suddenly remem-
ber the wrongs of his class and break
into emphatic cursing. The infection of his
words would run a zig-zag course along the
line, one squad and then another calling
destruction on the aristocracy or middle class
in sudden bursts of noise like the uneven
barking' of dogs. But the efforts died out
again in sullen silence and a dragging of feet.
Late in the day the town seemed as far off
as ever; and inquiries made at sunset showed
that it was still ten miles away.
The men were all hungry and cold that
night; and before morning rain had begun to
fall. Keen, and with the whip of the wind
behind it, it lashed their faces and stung
them into angry mutterings. At the call of
Julius they came dejectedly forth from the
shelter of hedges, and the march began
anew.
In the clinging mud, with heads bowed to
the storm and the weight of their packs
increased by the wet, they trudged forward
heavily, clumsily, no longer cursing the
enemies of their class, but venting their
ill-temper on the road, on their comrades,
on their leader. There were open murmurs
of revolt. It was well enough, they said, for
the man in front. He was on a horse. Com-
rade Julius must not befoul his dainty feet.
Julius had taken off the silver crown early
on the journey, finding the weight too great
for comfort. He had carried it on the saddle
before him; but now, with some idea of pro-
tection from the rain, he put it on again. It
was an unfortunate action, for the miseries
of those who followed him had reached their
height; and at the very moment when reviling
tongues were contrasting the men on foot in
the slush of the road with the leader on
horseback, he assumed an emblem that stood
for all they hated most. That a cap of liberty
was above the crown mattered nothing. A
dull brutality glowed in the savage eyes
turned to the leader.
Fingers pointed and lips sneered; and the
army that was now a rabble straggled into a
turn of the highway that the overflow of the
ditches had made a quagmire. Then snarl-
ing voices were heard saying that one king
was as bad as another. Who was this young-
aristocrat to give orders to soldiers of the
revolution V lie had the wrong blood in him
Bad luck had followed them ever since he put
the crown on. An ugly look came on the
faces nearest to Julius. There were brutal
curses; the curses changed to low-spoken
threats.
But all the time the young leader’s thought
was centred ou the task. The difficulties ot
the march had proved even greater than he
had expected. Every hour was precious; and
all things seemed to be combining to delay
him. Of the men with him he thought only
as part of the machinery of war. They
were standing the march well under the most
trying conditions; but the little town must
now be close at hand and he feared the loss
of time in its wineshops. After such a jour-
ney the men needed rest; but he saw in imagi-
nation orgies in the streets, wild mobs drink-
ing destruction to the foe, mad songs con-
tinued through all the hours of darkness,
and the morning call to an unrested army
with the mountains still to be crossed.
“Halt!”
The wind carried back the resonant clear
shout; and the rear of the column pressed
forward while the front ranks stood in the
morass with lowering and evil looks.
Julius intended to speak to the men in
the name of the revolution, to urge them with
strong words to one more great effort, and
especially to warn them against excesses in
the town. The magic of liis voice had thrilled
his hearers under worse conditions, when
danger had been close and only desperate
efforts could avail.
Had a company of the enemy’s troops
appeared at that moment he would have led
his scowling force to certain victory, and
night would have found his band broken but
content. But the fight against rain, mud and
hunger was of another kind.
Julius had spoken but a single sentence
when the trouble began. Gibes, curses,
threats broke out all round him and swelled
into a vicious roar. Most of the clamor was
directed against the silver crown that only
two days ago he had worn so bravely in the
sunlit dust on his father’s hill. Now the
sodden red of the cap of liberty dripped over
it and the big jewels splashed the rain down
upon his soaked uniform, while the crowd
repudiated him and reviled those kingly an-
cestors whose eyes still gazed through his
peasant face.
“I am a peasant and the son of a peasant,"’
he cried.
“You lie,” they answered. “Dowm with
the aristocrat!”
The boy looked steadily at the mutinous
horde about him. There was contempt
in the curl of his lip, but his glance was that
of a visionary—even these things must be
endured for the glory of the revolution.
The menacing shouts grew louder; the
crowd about his horse was denser. Julius put
up his hand, plucked the crown from his head
and threw it behind him into the roadway.
It was a critical moment. The boy’s action
might have saved the situation but for the
greed of some who were foremost in the
ranks. Four of them rushed to grasp the
bauble as it fell and their movement stirred
the rest to madness. The whole crowd surged
forward. There were shots and blows.
riderless horse reared up and plunged madh
through the trampled mire,
*
A greedy glitter was in the Jew’s eyes at
he. weighed the curious crown of anchor
workmanship that had been brought to his
shop in the little town below the mountains
He would pay the price of the silver ; but
those large, ill-cut stones that made his hand
tremble a little—pah, they were not worth
the buying! He counted out the money and
piously wished success to the revolution.
The Wooing.
’Twas the Spring in the air
And a laughter that ran
Over Moina’s black hair
To the heart of a man;
With the thorn-bush in leal:
And the wet clover green—
Och, April, you thief,
Is it love that you mean?
’Twas her mother’s white goat
On the side of the hill
And the rain on my coat
With the sun laughing still,
And the thought of her eyes—-
Sure, my heart is a gift,
In the black of surprise,
When her eyelashes lift!
'Twas the word that I spoke
With the wind blowing clear
And the small sob that broke
In my throat full of fear.
“Och, Danny,” she said,
“There’s the white cream to set
And the pigs to be fed
And you’re plaguing me yet!”
Would she slide past the door?
Ocli, her tongue was too wise;
But I listened far more
To the look in her eyes—
“ Sure, stay and be kist.”
But she turned by the wall
With a fine-lady twist
Of her head and her shawl.
’Twas the Spring in the air
Arid the green of the world,
And the black of her hair
Set me mad where it curled.
“Och, Moina, come out,
Girl of dreams, and be kist” —
But she hit me a clout
With the white of her fist.
Would she slide past the door?
Sure, her mouth was too red.
With the cheek of me sore
And those eyes in her head.
Troth, I kist her too well—
Twenty times at the least.
“Now, Danny, we’ll tell
A small word to the priest.”
DAVID McKEE WEIGHT.
The Day of Liberty.
Magna Charts was signed on June 15, 1215.
This is th-3 greatest day in all the year,
For on it quiet Liberty was born.
The despot ages, full of shame and fear,
Trod manhood down with purple pomp
of scorn.
Pale visions lit the darkness, but the
morn
Lay thick with cloud behind the eastern hill,
Till in June’s English loveliness the light
Broke on a sudden o’er the brow of night,
And the long dreamings turned to power and
will.
Baron and churchman in the tented field,
Where Thames glides silverly through
rushy meads!
Tall knights are mounted early; lance and
shield
Are ready for the bitter test of deeds.
England is all aflame. A nation’s needs
Cry challenge on those trumpets to a king.
And, lo! his herald splashes through the
ford!
What of his message? Is it pen or
sword
This day of yellow blossoming shall bring?
Then was a new world made, a new truth
set
In the high front of time for all to see.
No more on earth should striving Man forget
That nature, as his birthright, sealed him
free.
With heartening presage of the days to be,
A murmur swelled along the knightly line.
Eye smiled to eye under the morning sun ;
The swords were bloodless and the battle
won—
England had triumphed and King John
would sign!
O withered parchment, brown with pride of
years,
What triumphs have been yours o’er
ancient wrong!
What fetters have you broken, what salt
tears
Dashed from the eyes of those who feared
the strong!
Your memory was Freedom’s marching
song
That England note by note in quiet, tone
Taught to the lands and nations till there
grew
A voice of all the people, strong and new.
Speaking clear words to every despot throne.
Red revolution, jangling folly’s bells
Through streets blood-reddened at a mad
man’s cry.
Lit with wild torches all its thousand hells.
And in the flames saw trembling Free-
dom die.
But with a braver patience, strong and
high
Arose the one clear voice that saved man
kind.
The fearless call and hope of Runny-
mede —
The written charter and the bloodless
deed—
Lead oil to each sure door the world shall
find.
DAVID McKEE WEIGHT.


UNCHANGED/
FnP ™ "™ B mwmmM
/
> <w/
T^Owy**'
l /.
V
y xwo«v**n
/ *
\7
1/ v**- 1
%
IN WEJMIHJALItY
SI£EfiiNDiIi>ICE-
»
♦
IGARi-TTE*
STILL SUPREME- AT
• 204o*Jfe-


~,. *
-
Ki is
■ ■.
■
V. ;
'"'; T r J~ :
TOOTHS
IfR
W D
a trial
LAGER
-■
?n
mm
m
numw
*
*
#
i
m
I
«
■ ■’ ■
HI
m
i
i
4^
iv
%
%
I AT
4
■:
■
■
■
BREWED AND BOTTLED BY TOOTH & CO., LIMITED, KENT BREWERY, SYDNEY.


for Hotel Comfort!
Situated on Adelaide's finest boule-
vard, the Grosvenor provides to its
patrons a “home-from-home.” Fire-
proof, 300 rooms, 100 bathrooms,
spacious lounge, yale lock on every
door. Tariff froia £3/10/- weekly.
Adelaides Finest Unlicensed dioteJ K
Opp. Railway Sin Norih Terrace. ADELAIDE.-
HOW A SHILLING GROWS
One shilling per week deposited regularly in the Common-
wealth Savings Bank will, in 23| years, reach a total of £lOO
—provided that the deposits are regular and the interest is
allowed to remain in the Savings Account.
Here, however, is the real point. Of the £lOO mentioned in
this example, you deposit only a little over £6l. The Common-
wealth Savings Bank provides the balance in compounded
interest— over one-third of the total.
Idle money earns no profit. Set-your shillings to earning as
well as accumulating.
(flommonwcaltl) Savinos JSanl: of Hustralia
{Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
m
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
The Wave of Cleena.
AN IRISH LEGEND PUT INTO A PLAYLET.
A spot on the coast of Munster is still known as Cleena's Wave. Cleena, a Danaan woman,
, n . 'here]ore of the rare of the gods, left her home in the Land of Perpetual Youth to come to
W j Keevan of the curling locks. She was pursued by the waves to the place of landing
i ni. the7e drowned. In later legend she is represented as restored to life and reigning as queen
o] the South Munster fairies.
/ ~;V 1 the Land of Perpetual Youth
1 1) -nan-og). There is a sun in the sky, a
moon and two stars, hut the light is like a
a tt&r-sunset glow . There are trees
flowers and the sea is glassy.
Keevan : It is a fine country surely, with
white birds singing- on the trees and fine
nowers w l ere a man would set his foot;
and there is a white sun in a blue sky with
no cloud at all. But why will there be
no shadows under the trees and a moon
and two stars shining in the daytime'/
maybe it is my head is queer with the
wind blowing and me thinking to be
drowned m the great storm. It is a small
Slire ly> t° come over the great sea
with one man only and the white water
hying over me with the sting of the salt
in it for seven days and seven nights.
. Glcena comes in through the trees. She
ts very beautiful, with rippling dark-red hair
and dreamy, quiet eyes.
Cleena: It was a voice I heard in this
place where no one walks at any time.
(Seeing Keevan) It is a fine greeting to
you, tall stranger, and you alone in a
place where you never came before.
Iveevan; It is a fine greeting to you, lady
of the world, and me glad to hear a voice
speaking after listening to die sound of
the sea only for seven days and seven
nights.
C leena : Is it from the sea you are and you
crossing the long water out of the world?
Keevan : It is from the sea I am, surely,
with the hunger of seven days on me and
the need of rest and the fear still shakim-
“,“ e , that I would be surely drowned.
W hat place is this at all ?
C leena : It is Tir-nan-og, tall stranger, and
the welcome of all kind ways to you com
liig here. Will you sit here now wher
cle ? r water is fallin s over the stones-
tllJ I bring you white bread and yelloi.
apples and sweet milk for drinking?
She takes Keevan by the hand and lead
him to a place where there is soft moss am
green fern and the stream makes a some
nice 10%0 music,
Keevan : I will sit down here and wait, for
it is a good place and my feet are weak
under me. ( Cleena goes out. Keevan sink-
down m the soft moss.) It is a soft bed for
a weary man and a soft voice in a quiet
country. If I am dead itself, it is a good
place that I have come to, surely.
Act ll. — The same place. Seven days
later.
Cleena is sitting with Keenan's head pil-
lowed on her knee. She is fingering his
short dark curls.
Cleena: What is it to die, Keevan? Is n
__ a sore thing to go out from living?
Keevan : How would a man that is living
still answer that? There is no man want-
ing to die, but some maybe that are very
old and tired of staying a long time in
one place thinking too many thoughts.
Cleena : I am tired of staying a long time
in one place and thinking too many
thoughts, with the sun always in one place
and the moon shining whenever you look,
and no shadow at all.
Keevan : It is not thinking of dying you
are, Cleena, and you always in the quiet
place where there arc no tears and the
laughter is like something a man would
hear coming over a low hill? There is
no dying here, heart, in all the good days
of great kindness.
Cleena : It is not to die I am thinking
long, Keevan, but to live. There is no
dying here; and how would there be liv-
ing? For the living is like a slow death;
and maybe the dying somewhere else would
be good after a woman had lived red life
where there is a shadow to fall and a
flower to turn brown in the hot sun.
Keevan : Whisht, heart! Is it a good thing
to be wishing for the bad when you have
all the good is to be found anywhere?
Cleena : How would I know if it is good
itself? There is a man that calls me wife
and him looking at me with a quiet eye
and no smile every day in all the years;
and there is a man come up out of the
land of shadows and death, and he set
a kiss hot on my mouth and the two eyes
of him looked lire and joy into my soul.
Maybe a bad bird croaking in the green
world where the night comes is more than
a white bird singing always in Tir-nan-og.
Keevan (half rising) : Och, my soul, you
have set me thinking long for a black
night with thunder and the loud sound of
a man’s voice talking plain things.
Cleena: Och, my soul, the sound of a
man’s voice talking has made me want to
mix a kiss with tears in a world where a
man might kiss them away. Let me go
where there is love, because there is fear
and great hope, because there is death also
and a small grave in the ground.
Keevan : Is it with me you would go, surely?
Och, Cleena, I am tired of your soft sun
with a moon and two stars and no great
light with them all shining together. I
Avant your hair falling down in the light
of a true morning and you putting it up
with white fingers in tin* light of a true
moon; but it is far, heart, and all the
waves of a great sea to cross before we
come there.
Cleena : Will you take me, Keevan ? For
my soul is set on being with you in the
good and the bad, and not sitting always
in half a dream that is neither sleeping
nor waking.
Keevan : Och, heart, how would I do this
thing? It is far o\ 7 er the sea with death
in every wave: and if avc came to the
green Avorld itself you would maybe set
a curse on me for bringing you there.
Cleena: Would I set a curse on you,
Keevan, and me with two white arms
about you always?
Keevan (springing to his feet) : Sweet
woman, hoAV Avould I have heart to take
„ , , , . T .
-V° u from the best that is? Listen, Cleena.
If we crossed the sea itself, we would
sh * re , a kiss ° r l w ? P aybe , and talk loud
and laugh well, but in a short while our
hair l voald h % grey ’ aild the yauth wou d
f of oar face * and eyes v and we woul<
feel th ? cold ™ und us and tbe sorrow ’ and
? lc X er ™ al tlle days find the P eace thac
1S in tlns place *
Cleena, who has risen to her feet, now
stands beside him. She puts her hands on
1,1 s shoulders and looks into his eyes.
Cleena: Och, Keevan, why would you talk
a small thin S like that? . Would grey hair
aild fears.be a great price to pay for one
* rue klss 1U a rue w °rld?
Act lII.—A small boat in a tempestuous
sca n j s n ight f and the dim outline of a
roc j C y coas t is seen. Cleena is crouched in
the stern of the boat and Keevan stands by
fj lc ] iro j ccn mast, to which clings a torn shred
n ; ihp vn ;i ’ J
, - ~ , ,
Iveevan: It is the shore of Munster and
tbe w j nd driving us in maybe on a sandy
place. (Cleena sits with brooding eyes
and does not answer. Keevan strains his
gaze towards the shore.) We are past
the high rocks, Cleena. It will be a good
morning in a good world. ( Cleena docs
not answer.) Hold tight where you are,
Cleena There are white waves, running
up on the long sand. I know this place;
and there are good woods beyond and a
stream where the salmon leap in the sun.
Cleena: Och, Iveevan. listen to them on
the sea. It is the hounds of Mananan
with the weeds on their wet hair and them
barking after us.
Iveevan : W hisht, whisht, Cleena. Mananan
is far in Tir-nan-og, and him giving no
lieed to us at all. It is the wind on the
water; but the shore is very near now.
Cleena: Och, but can you not hear them?
It is voices of men calling them on and
them coming nearer.
Iveevan ( coming close to her): Cleena,
heart, there are no voices at all, and the
sea is quieter now itself.
Cleena : It is not the sea that is speaking,
but them that are hunting us with a
horn and a loud clapping of the hands.
Keevan: It is no clapping of hands but
the waves beating on the rocks we are
past.
Cleena : Och, Keevan, there is a fear on
me and them coming close.
Iveevan : Whisht, Cleena. Will you look
at tlie white water and ns near the shore!
He puts his arm about her and her head
vests 07i his shoulder.
Cleena: Och, hold me from them. I can
feel their breath cold on me and the
smell of their salt tongues.
Iveevan : Heart, there is no hound of land
or water would pull you out of my arms.
The boat is driven into the wild tumult
ni ihn wri
'
, .
Act IV. — A place on the coast of Mun-
star. The hills are dotted with trees, and
between is green grass sloping down to the
shore. The leach is of yellow sand and a
light surf is rolling in from a quiet sea. The
sun is shining brightly,
Cleena and Keevan come in. His arm is
about her, and their laughter is heard before
they speak.
Cleena : It is a kiss that is good in Ireland
this day, and us seven weeks escaped from
the sea and the strange places.
Keevan : No, but do you not hear them,
Cleena —the hounds of Mananan, and them
chasing us over the water?
Cleena: I am not afraid of them. They
are little green dogs with no teeth, and
I have a strong man to kiss the fear of
away from me always.
Keevan : Ocli, no, but it is their breath that
is cold on you, and the smell of their salt
tongues.
Cleena : It is their salt tongues that will
lick me soon when the day is hot and I
let the water fall sweetly over me as I lie
on the sand Och, the poor thing! (She
walks along the sand and picks up a little
white bird from a tangle of brown sea-
weed.) Is it dead it is, Keevan?
Keevan : It is dead, Cleena.
iCleena : Och, the little thing that fluttered
and sang in Tir-nan-og in the half-light of
the sun and moon and two stars. It will
be nothing now, and all the song gone out
of it. all the days of the year.
Keevan : No, but let it lie there, Cleena, foy
it is a small thing and not worth many
tears; but the day is a good day, heart,
and there are more good days for love
before it is time to be sad.
Cleena ( with a sigh) : Och, why would I
be sad and me with the world warm on
me and a ‘laugh in my throat? Strong
man that took me from the half-light to
the great love, would I be dropping fool-
ish tears because some little thing was
dead? It is a small white bird that lived
in the strange places and sang a song
with no heart in it hut only a
sweet sound ; and it came to its mate over
the sea, and is dead here on the yellow
shore. Och, if it only sang one true song
iii r the green world, it was enough surely.
Would I be afraid of dying, and me living
red life who never lived before any day of
the year?
Keevan : It is a good world, surely, and
we two our lone in the bright summer
time. (A horn is heard among the trees.)
Whisht!
Cleena: It is, maybe, some huntsman com
ing near this place.
Keevan : It will be Brian, and him hunting
the deer since the first of the yellow morn
ing. Will you come now, Cleena, and see
men of the living world?
Cleena : It is no man of the living world I
would see, but you only. Do you go and
meet him that is your friend while I stay
here waiting in this place. It is glad 1
am in my heart and breathing fine air
that is like a sweet song; for the seas
are laughing to the hills because < 'leena
is a living woman.
Keevan kisses her.
Keevan : Sweet woman, be glad always.
My heart will be running home to you
before my feet.
Act V .-—The same place at evening. A
cold wind is blowing and a great sea is roll-
ing in on the sand. Cleena, with her hair
blown about her, is on the sand where the
leaves are breaking. A horn is heard in the
woods.
Cleena : He will be coming soon now, and
maybe a hare or a piece of venison over
his shoulder; and he will be telling me
of the long chase among the trees with
Brian’s grey dogs close on the scent.
Och, it is the good day with the loud
wind blowing cold on me and the night
coming up with half a moon dancing be-
tween two small clouds. It is the sea
itself barking like great hounds but run-
ning up sweetly to touch my feet and
leaving soft bubbles on the sand. ( Keevan
is seen coming through the trees far up
on the darkening hill. Cleena, with her
fingers spread out to catch the wind, runs
to meet the waves and dances bach ankle-
deep in foam, laughing like a child.)
Och, it is a kind sea and me with no
fear of it at all. Would the hounds of
Mananan bark? It is a fine Avet barking
surely, but there is no bite in their soft
mouths. (A great wave running up far
beyond the others swirls around her
knees.) ’Tis the strange pulling of the
strong waters and the sand tickling in my
toes. ( She struggles up the wet beach
laughing and tossing the hair Out of her
eyes. Keevan, coming fast through the
trees, calls. She waves her white arms to
him and shouts back. A tremendous green
wave rises and begins to break.) Och,
Keevan, I am sporting with the big dogs
of Mananan!
The ivave breaks over her and she is
drawn buck into the swirl of the waters.
Keevan comes running down the sand.
Keevan : I am coming to you, Cleena!
Cleena ( rising amid the foam) : Och,
Keevan!
Keevan plunges into the surf where
Cleena has disappeared. He is seen strug-
gling in the water for some minutes; then
a great leave hurls him far up on the sand.
He moves slowly and heavily to safety. The
sea breaks into a sudden uproar like the
barking of many dogs. Keevan raises him-
self on one arm.
Keevan : Och, bark your fill. You have
taken her away from me !.... She came
to her mate over the sea and sang one
song in the green world It was enough
surely. . . .Och, Cleena !
DAVID McKEE WEIGHT.
The dozen superb drawings which Norman
Lindsay did to illustrate “The Quarter-
master” have been reproduced in two-tone
ink on art paper, and are now on sale at The
Bulletin’s chief office, Sydney, and at all
branch offices. The complete set of one
dozen drawings costs only 25., and to put
country subscribers on the same footing as
those of the cities, the set will be senf post-
free from the head office to any address in
Australasia.
Wings.
The moon has set, and heavy morning
lies
Scarce breathing in the darkness,
while the grass,
Drinking the cool, black dew, so
faintly sighs
The very earth seems dying—ripe to
pass
To nothingness with all her weight
of years.
Clamorous from some far distance,
haggard fears
Seem gathering like foul birds to
some foul prey,
Some dreadful thing no alchemy of
tears
May wash away.
Grim dr earnings batter at my souVs
strong shield
To beat me down to ultimate
despair;
But knowledge holds me, and I dare
not yield
To fancies only born of darkened
air.
Yet knowledge may betray me; for the
truth
May blacken in the thought that
earth's good youth
Died long ago in some rare age of
gold
The old hag world is losing tooth by
tooth,
Grown sad and old.
And, somehow, some time, when the
moon is set,
With all her anthill cities sunk in
sleep,
A sigh will shake the darkness through
the wet
Grass dripping, and the mountains
steep,
Brooding above the vales of little care;
And suddenly the world will choke for
air,
Rise heavily with one last strangled
cry;
And all that once was strong and once
was fair
Shudder and die.
O Truth, most blinded prophet, be
more true
To that which strives within us
towards the light!
Is there no peak from which a higher
view
May lift our eyes above eternal
night
To cities of serene and holy thought
Where all of simple good we did or
sought
Lives on above the nothingness of
things ?
Must the whole world end, crucified
for nought,
Dreaming of wings?
DAVID McKEE WEIGHT.


Banking, Public Companies, etc,
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares . . 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares . . 703,125
Ordinary Shares . . . . . . 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided. Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
Si d “.oSl
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
Keep hopping end hoping if you wish
to succeed — think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Officer 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
""I
A J'lj AUSTRALIANS visiting Loudon
**■ should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians iu
Europe,and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 Ceorge Street, Sydney
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
%
The Bulletin
Register
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
XTbe Dominion.
Nezv Zealand’s
National Morning Daily.
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion' is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over,
2*.
Til
Dependable /
Craig & Aitken
Wholesale Dishibubrj
Sydney N.5.W.
Shipping, etc.
11l
it , r .
:: '
mm
%
iiyiiiMi!
Excursions to HAWAII
The Canadian-
Australasian Line
will shortly commence it s
Summer Excursion Runs, which,
by specially reduced rates, bring
within your reach an interesting
voyage on a large and modern
liner with a holiday to follow in
Hawaii.
This famous little Island of the
South Seas is a cosmopolitan
holiday centre, world-famous for
its endless Summer sunshine, the
matchless surf of Waikiki Beach,
its tropical scenic splendor and its
carefree languorous life.
Sail by the Aorangi or Niagara (via
Auckland and Suva) on either of these
dates: November 14, December 12,
January 9, February 6. Excursion Rates:
£75 First Saloon £55 Second
Union Steam Ship Co.,
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne
BURNS-PHILP TOURS
JAVA
(The Wonderland of the East).
OLD BUDDHISTIC AND lIINDUISTIC TEMPLES—NATIVE BAZAARS.
EXCELLENT 810-GAME SHOOTING. BEAUTIFUL TROPICAL SCENERY.
EXTENSIVE TEA GARDENS. INTERESTING PEOPLE.
Regular monthly sailings by the favorite vessels
“MARELLA” (7500 tons) and “MALABAR” (5000 tons).
The Beautiful Solomons
Full of interest and romance and situated only seven days’
steaming n.-e. of Sydney. The comfortable and popular
S.S. MATARAM sails from Sydney on November 13 and
December 21, visiting 30 picturesque Island Ports.
ROUND TRIP 4 \ WEEKS. FARE £4l
Write for Pamphlet No. 52/8 to
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
# Y
cwaL
m
t L
ILl*
I
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 181'
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital ..
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability ..
The Bulletin
£7,500,000
5,900,000
7,500,000
£20.900,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1928, £88,982,585.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
554 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Dills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
15he
“BRISBANE COURIER”
IS THE GREATEST ADVERTISING
MEDIUM IN QUEENSLAND
Advertising figures have proved over years that both Local and
National advertisers regard the “Courier” as the greatest daily
newspaper published in Queensland.
For the month of 'August the “Courier” carried almost 1000 cols,
of advertising, or approximately 24,000 inches of advertising more
than its contemporary.
THE “BRISBANE COURIER” IS
FIRST IN CIRCULATION, COVERAGE, ADVERTISING
AND INFLUENCE.
Published by the Brisbane Newspaper Co., Queen Street Brisbane.
Rep.: Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney. Phone: 85007.
Shipping, etc.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*§Ulysses . . 15,000 tons, Oct. 23
fCeramic . . 18,500 „ Oct. 29
*Themistocles 11,500 ~ Nov. 20
Ascanius . . 10,048 ~ Dec. 24.
*Fivst class only. f“Cabin” class only. §Via Suez.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Joint
Agents
Splendid Cheap Service
Via Suez Canal.
FAST OIL BURNERS
Fares to London from £3B.
To Colombo from £22.
Special Excursion Return Tickets to
Colombo issued frcm Sept, to Feb., £32-
P. 8 0. BRANCH SERVICE
SPACIOUS DECKS —DECK CABINS —EXCELLENT
MENU —CINEMA —DANCE MUSIC REPRODUCED
WITH ELECTRIC AMPLIFIERS—
CANVAS SWIMMING BATH
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 86701
BRISBANE, viaBYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. OItARA —Every Saturday evening; passenger*
due' Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday eveni.ig;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Seti
BRISBANE.
FARES. —
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/i./-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office;
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE.
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Phiip & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart Parker Lyn
Magilifloanl
Fast Passengai
Steamahi.n
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMIT: l
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
leropularwater-
Boulevard to
Europe
/A^V
6.*f,
SJO
V*
t*"
\&*
Xv c
C*
3.V>
■7
G*
CS> e
\e>
'o°,
\v c
V"-
cov
V'v^
SP'
v>
.go's
\\\ c
\&
<tv c
V&t s
\W^
<v*
c»
G e °
S*
£***»*
-
CANADIAN PACIFIC
TRAINS STEAMERS HOTELS
The Worlds Greatest Travel System
! If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
i your faney, write to the Manager, who will
1 “ lintp yo " price for toc origiliaL


Saga
■pi
" I think that your
Rexona Soap is delight-
ful for the skin and
hair.”
MARGARET
BANNERMAN
Keeps the hair soft
Beautiful hair amply pays for the care and time used in
keeping it beautiful, and care is all that is necessary for
developing and retaining hair beauty.
When washing the hair, any soap will not do. Only a
specially prepared soap entirely free from alkali, and one
which has a tendency to make the hair soft and silky
should be used.
Such a soap is Rexona Soap, and if you would have your
hair truly beautiful you will start at once using Rexona
for washing your hair.
Dandruff, and excess of oil will disappear, your hair will
be so fluffy that it will look much heavier than it really
is, its lustre and softness will delight you, while the
stimulated scalp gains the health which ensures hair
growth.
Price 1f per tablet .
oil'll
o'"*-
i 1
i
*
1
REXONA.
SOAP
for Health and. Beaut
y
RSI2R
••- '■ ■ .
V'' '
■
■
; H
m
fi
• Xf-Jl
■
WSR
• *d
iSKSIIIW
NOW NEATLY CASED at same price!
A strongly-made grained-leather case is now provided with every Plum
Razor, at no increase in cost. With its blade set to perfection guaran-
teed and kept in order for two years free the Plum Razor shaves cleanly,
easily, quickly leaves the most delicate skin smooth and comfortable.
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 „
Real Ivory Handle 21 /- „
Satin-lined double ease free with pair.
7-day Sets—7 Razors in Case.
Black, 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory, 140/-
Post free to any address.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
PPLI
A Step More
tN THIS LITTLE STORY
DAVID McKEE WEIGHT.
DRAWS A PIC-
Pure of the silent bush man, and tells of a queer way
THAT OUTBACK DISTANCES HAVE.
THE man was carrying his swag with a
jaunty air, plodding along bravely to-
wards the north. The sun glared, the
ground was parched and cracked, the glass
would have shown 110 degrees in the shade.
But there was no shade. In all the wide
circle of plain nothing grew large enough
to cast as much shadow as the man himself.
No track . was visible. He might have been
Stfeeting by the stin ol Merely following
some instinct for directioii.
It was probably the same instinct Which
made him suddenly pause, look to the south
and stroke nine inches of meditative beard.
A moving spot showed on the hazy horizon.
He stroked his beard again and tramped
on. The swag hung lightly on his broad
shoulders, and his heavy boots made an even
rhythm on the baked ground.
Very rapidly the moving spot became a
motor-car. In the great silence it throbbed
noisily; but the man did not look again
until it had narrowed the distance to three
hundred yards. Then he shaded his eyes
and examined it more closely. The car —a
big affair, looking much the worse for travel
—contained one person only. She was
young, heavily freckled and wore her red
hair closely cropped—a small wisp of a
woman, all energy and enthusiasm.
“Can you tell me how far I am from
Wilga Springs? I r m told I can get petrol
there. I’m crossing Australia from south
to north. Isn’t it hot? How on earth do
you manage to walk in such weather? Do
you know if there are any woman at Wilga
Springs ?’’
The words poured out in a chirping rush,
and the man stood, with his swag still on
his shoulder, stroking liis brown beard.
“It’s a good step to Wilga Springs,” he
said slowly,
“How far? Tell me! I wonder if my
petrol will last. Isn’t it hot? I don’t know
how you can stand it.”
"Wilga Springs?” said the man slowly.
“A hundred and fifty miles. I dunno—*
might be a step more.”
“Thanks. I think I can manage. A
hundred and fifty, you say?”
“Might be a step more—l dunno.” His
hand still stroked his beard.
“Oh, well,” she said and looked to the
far northern horizon, “one must trust to
luck. Are you walking to Wilga Springs?”
There was almost a note of awe in her
voice as she asked the question. The feat
seemed too stupendous.
“There or thereabouts,” he said.
“But it will take you days—weeks. Would
you care for a lift?
For answer he threw his swag into the
back of the car and slowly took his seat
beside her.
For forty miles tile big car rolled swiftly
over the baked plain. The lady talked in
stludeli gushes. The man replied only to
questions after slow and deep meditation.
Another forty miles of hot and unbroken
wilderness fled past them in silence. The
lady was too anxious to speak. A doubt
about her ability to reach Wilga Springs
haunted her. The man sat in solemn calm,
his hand on his beard.
“We’ve bore off too much to the right,”
he said at last.
“Much?” she asked. “It should be right
by the compass.”
“I dunno about compasses. We ought to
be sightin’ some trees. Still, I dunno; eight
years since I was here. Somebody might
have cut ’em down.”
"Who would ,do that? Nobody would re-
move landmarks m a place like this.”
“I dunno. They mightn’t. If they’re
there we ought to see ’em. I dunno.”
"But I steered by the compass. It always
brings me right.”
“I dunno about compasses.”
She stopped the car, a worried look in
her grey eyes.
“Are you sure we’re too much to the
right?”
“I dunno. We might be.”
“If you’re not sure I’ll trust the compass.
Are there any other landmarks you might
know ?”
“Me? I know what most of the places in
those parts ought to look like.”
“It all looks the same,” she said.
When she started the car again her little
white teeth were firmly set and her freckles
seemed more numerous.
Another forty miles passed under the
powerful wheels, The sun was low towards
the Setting, atid even small objects were
casting shadows.
“Do you See anything yoti know?” she
asked sharply.
“Yes. I got a good idea where we ate.’*
“Where are we, then? Where ate We?”
“I dunno, but I got a good idea. We’re
about thirty miles from Hardicroft’s Creek.”
“Where’s that?”
“I dunno. It starts in Queensland an’
comes down this way.”
“Is it a settlement? Is there water there?
Can I get petrol?”
His answer came after a longer pause than
usual.
“There ain’t no settlement this side of
the Queensland border, two hundred miles —
about. Might he a step more. I ain’t heard
of no petrol there.”
“Oh, dear !” .she said. “This creek or
whatever it is—how far is the part that is
near us from the place we were going to,
Wilga Springs?”
Again the man pondered.
“I dunno,” he said at last. “A hundred
and twenty miles —about. I dunno—might
be a step more.”
The woman made a gesture of despair.
“Do you mean to say we have to go
thirty miles to be as far from AV’ilga Springs
as we were when I picked you up !”
“I dunno —about. Might be a step more.”
“Oh, _ it’s a step more to everywhere!”
Her voice ended on something like a .sob.
“I dunno. We bore off a bit.” He
answered more briskly this time, obviously
with the intention of affording comfort.
“I don’t believe we’re so far wrong. The
compass must be right.”
She sent the car along, heedless of bumps.
The sun was just touching the rim of the
horizon.
They had raised the dust of at least ten
miles when trees came into sight—the first
seen since noonday.
“Do you know where we are now?” she
asked between her clenched teeth.
“About sixty miles west of Green’s Salt-
pan—or might be a step more.”
“Oh, another place!” she cried. “Can’t
you tell me how far we are from Wilga
Springs ?”
He pondered deeply, stroking his beard
more rapidly.
“I dunno. I’d call it about a hundred
and thirty miles. Might be a step more.”
The engine coughed. The machine slowed
and came to a stop.
“There, that’s the finish!” she said
fiercely. “What can we do now?”
“There’s a good moon,” he answered—
almost briskly.
The west was a dull crimson, but already
the east was brightening.
“Moon!” she said. “The moon won’t
make the car go.”
“No. S’pose it won’t.” he said. “So we
better push on!”
“What! You’re going to leave me here
all alone!” Her voice rose almost to a
shriek.
“It. won’t take more’n about four days to
walk,” he said.
“I won’t walk. I’ll stay here till another
car comes along,”
The moon silvered the vast plain and the
air felt chill.
“Well, so long. I’ll push on,” said the
man.
“You’d go—go and leave me to my doom !”
she shuddered.
Pie shouldered his swag.
“Stop, stop!” she shrilled. “Wait for
me ! I’m coming too.”
The Bull and the Pea-rifle.
WHEREIN DAVID WRIGHT
TALKS OF TWO OF THE TERRORS OF HIS
LIFE AT GLEN BROOK, WHERE HE LIVED.
I.—THE BULL.
THE chief obstacle to closer settlement
in the wide, breezy, scented bushlands
within fifty miles of a city are the bull
jmd the pea-rifle. _ Fifty miles on a fast
train are not. a serious matter —not such a
serious matter as eight or nine on a crowded
tram. Except on rare occasions, nobody
walks on you in a train; except on much
rarer occasions, nobody ever does anything
olse in a tram.
But that has nothing to do with bulls
and pea-rifles.
The bull belongs to a local person—gener-
ally a person in whiskers. He is “quite
quiet.” All bulls are quite quiet when they are
liot dangerous; and nobody can tell whether
it is a bull’s dangerous day until something
unpleasant happens. But no man who
works in a city really wants to meet a
quiet bull even on his most placid day. Very
few men who work on the top of a hill want
to meet him either. Picnickers may enjoy
the thrill once in a way; bur, then, pic-
nickers are a very hardy breed bent on
adventure. Besides, there is always some
Brave Man from the Ribbon Counter
airong them to explain that bulls are really
docile creatures and without guile; and that,
anyhow, the wildest of them can be brought
to reason by a simple show of firmness.
Most of the bull’s days are quiet; but
his days that are not quiet are like the Day
of Judgment combined with an attack on
Lone Pine. The wise man who knows this
glides with dryad-like motions from tree to
tree when he meets the bull on his day that
may be quiet—and, again, may not. be.
If a fair estimate of the cost of a wan-
dering bull to an ultra-suburban district were
made, it would be found that the toll levied
upon every possessor of property iii the
district is greater than the income-tax. The
corpulent visitor comes with a view to buy-
ing land in the pleasant green places. He
meets the bull —and does not come back.
So property does not increase in value as
it should, and the loss falls upon those who
own their homes in the neighborhood and
naturally want to sell them.
The cost of an average straying bull to
an average residential district can never be
much less than a thousand a year—ten
pounds per head in tax on a hundred pro-
perty-owners.
Under certain conditions a bull is made an
outlaw: but
Bull-Fighting as a Pastime
is popular only in Spain and nothing
is done about it. That is where the law
makes the mistake. It is not the bull but
the owner of the' bull who should be made
an outlaw. Any man who owns a straying
bull ought to be open to public competition.
Any citizen should be allowed to have a
shot at him on any public road: and the
first person to score a kill should be re-
warded. For the man who allows a bull t
stray is an enemy of the general good, and,
because he will some day be smitten with
remorse, should be put out of his misery as
soon as possible. Unfortunately we are not
yet sufficiently advanced to take such a dem-
and wholesome view ; but that is no reason
why people should allow themselves to De
absolutely walked upon by mere
Peace-Destroying Beef.
Let it come to be a matter of principle
with fair-minded men that the person who
owns a straying bull is disqualified from all
the uses of civilisation, and we are half-way
to a cure. Let no man buy from him, sell
to him, speak to him, pray for him in life
,(Continued on next page.)


A Camel
travels 11 days, SAFELY
on ONE water supply—
/
rrT
&
a
>*v*
\-.4
S'* *»
vA
"'"S'
Your Car,
500 miIes,SAFE lY on i
ONE complete lubrication /
rive a camel beyond his “lubrication” limit
JLy and there is trouble. So it is with a motor
car. Then you meet the irresistible forces of
wear and tear and friction. You pay repair
bills of which 80 per cent are due to this one
easily avoided cause.
Of course you will not take this chance when
Alemite —the scientific method of complete
lubrication —may be had so easily and econom-
ically. For with Alemite, used regularly every
500 miles, the chief source o|f mechanical
trouble is removed.
Alemite forces lubricant, under tremendous
pressure, to every Vital Chassis Bearing on
your car. It pushes out old, gritty grease, farc-
ing in clear, clean, solidified oil. That’s why 95
per cent of all American cars now manufac-
tured are equipped with Alemite.
We suggest you ask your nearest dealer or
write for full particulars.
What Alemite-ing Does
for Any Car
1. BEARINGS: GenuineAlemit eHighPressure
lubricant forced into every vital chassis bear-
ing with Alemite equipment. Every 500 miles.
2. GEARS: Differential and transmission thor-
oughly flushed out by a special Alemite process.
New Alemite Gear Lubricant forced in. Every
2,500 miles.
3. SPRINGS: Given an Alemite Graphite
Spring Bath. They are sprayed with special
Alemite Graphite Penetrating Oil —every 500
miles. Eliminates squeaks and makes car run
smoother.
Genuine Alemite-ing—every 500
miles—costs no more than ordinary,
inefficient “greasing.” Then notice
how your repair bills decrease; how
much better your car runs.
The Bulletin
See your nearest dealer or write for particidars.
ALEMITE MANUFACTURING CORPORATION
DIVISION OF STEWART-WARNER
Chicago, U. S. A.
Full particulars from
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH
Resident Manager,
250 Pitt Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following Representatives:
Bennett & Wood, Ltd 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
Motor Supplies, Ltd Brisbane
Atkins (W. A.), Ltd 894 Hay Street, Perth
E. A. Machin & Co., Ltd. . 535 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
Cornell Limited, 122 Pirie Street, Box G. P. 0., 496 E., Adelaide
For the Dominion of New Zealand:
Jas. J. Niven & Co., . 152 Wakefield Street, Wellington, N. Z.
ALEMITE
High Pressure Lubrication
JL&&
or bury him in death. Let him be a mere
loneliness among his whiskers until he chains
liis bull to the stoutest of posts and sits
weeping for forgiveness.
And yet even the bull is hardly as bad as
the pea-rifle.
lI.—THE RIFLE.
While the bull is walking through your
fences and eating up your young trees, little
Tom is having a merry time with the pea-
rifle. Uncle gave him the weapon as a birth-
day present in the hope that he might achieve
something really great; for uncle is by nature
and ambition a murderer, though, through
fear of the police, the gallows and the clergy,
he has never murdered anything bigger than
the domestic rooster. But Tom might easily
do better than this, and uncle waits in hope.
A pea-rifle carries its pellet about four
hundred yards. The mathematical chances
against that pellet hitting the thing it is
aimed at are very great. The little birds
laugh at it; the rabbits whisk their tail-
tufts in derision when they hear it fired ; even
the harmless necessary cat mei;ely yawns
when she sees the barrel pointed more or
less in her direction. But mathematical
chances are strange things ; for, though there
is no record that a pea-rifle ever disturbed
the feather of a crow, there is proof that on
every public holiday some human creature
gets punctured by a nasty little bullet.
The Murderous Uncle
no doubt performs wild, secret dances of
fantastic joy when he reads of those occur-
rences ; and another < uncle with similar
ambitions gives another rifle to another
cherub-faced Tom to carry on the good
work. And so the pleasant fact is
noted by the trees and waratah blos-
soms that, strolling anywhere in the bush
within fifty miles of the city, a sudden and
distinctly unpleasant death may find you
without warning or time for prayer. The
boy with the rifle is, of course, too far away
to hear your parting cry; and, in any case,
you couldn’t say which of the boys or which
of the rifles did the deed. Dear little Tom
has no blood on him when he gets home;
but his uncle gives him fifty more cartridges
and gloats in unholy joy over the record in
the newspapers.
To live in a nice opening of the bush
within a reasonable distance of the railway
is very much the same thing as being in the
Front Line of the Trenches.
Two bullets in succession recently missed
me while engaged in gallant toil at my wood-
heap. One went about a yard wide and sang
past my ear. The other struck a tree half
a dozen paces away. And the youth who had
tried to murder me walked past my gate a
few minutes later with a bland smile of holy
innocence on his rather dirty countenance.
One of the features of semi-bush life in
these stirring days is the sight of a mother
gathering her young brood and hiding them
under the bed at the first hissing snap of
danger. The cat climbs for safety into a
tank; the dog howls and hides under a
log. They only do these things when the
firing is distant; if they are being aimed at
they know they are in perfect safety.
Yet
The Bull Goes Unharmed.
The bull is actually the largest target the
bullet could find; yet nobody ever heard of
a bull being even tickled by a pea-rifle. That
is where poetic justice fails. If the pea-
rifle could be reserved for the sole enter-
tainment of the bull and its owner, everybody
could rise up and applaud—everybody ex-
cept the murderer who gives a boy such a
weapon to play with.
The pea-rifle is of no use' or ornament. It
has only one purpose—to cause accidental
death. Only a few heroic souls will
Take the Chances
of living in perpetual fear of sudden
death that they may breathe sweeter
air and grow the tender cabbage in a
spray of wattle dust. The pea-rifle is the
main reason why Mr. Specufailure can’t sell
those green acres that look so inviting.
Cherub-faced Tom and his murderous uncle
are taking cash out of Mr. Specufailure’s
pocket as surely and inevitably as Mr.
Whiskerbung and his gentle wandering bull
are doing it.
Everybody has to die once; but nobody
wants to find Paradise by the aid of a ridi-
culous little bullet that travels four hundred
yards at random at the whim of a small boy
with a grin and an unwashed mouth.
How Murphy Got to Heaven.
Dan Murphy’s cows had stumbled into
Heaven,
Breaking the olive fences thin and hoar;
They chewed the asphodel beneath the seven
Tall palms that stood beside the wash-
house door. v
There through the light of everlasting morn
The laundress angels wring the soapsuds
faint
From shining robes boiled meekly to adorn
The sad, slow virtues of the latest saint.
There rose a clamor on the wind of joy,
A holy flutter round the place of soap—
" Behold the milky beasts of earth destroy
With cloven hoof the lily blooms of hope!”
Upsprang ten thousand warrior angels
dight
With sword and panoply for battle proud;
The twelve broad banners glittered in the
light,
And silver trumpets sang a challenge
loud.
And there stood Blossom with the erring
five
Unmoved amid the tumult of the morn,
Heedless of all the flutter in the hive,
As when she stood breast-high in Ryan’s
corn.
Sticks, stones and words had moved her
slowly then
Out of the corn into the lucerne green:
She had a large contempt for boys and
men.
And these were the first angels she had
seen.
One halo on her lifted horn was caught,
She sent the startled doves to left and
right;
The five large following cows for shelter
sought,
And tore the holy washing in their flight.
One down the gully, three across the hill—-
And all the blessfed from their windows
gazed—
Amid the silver trumpets blaring still
The cows, scarce ruffled, paused and slowly
grazed.
Heaven’s legions o’er that jungle of delight,
Where every scent was sweet as maideu
vows,
Wheeled back and forth in hurried, eager
flight.
And could not rout the six unshaken
cows.
Twice three were mustered at the rainbow
ends,
Four times a pair were stayed by wisdom’s
well;
But Blossom and her five deep-uddered
friends
Had quiet tricks that might have con-
quered HelL
Perspiring in their armor and their wings,
The beaten angels staggered in their
ranks;
Some paused to drink by little neetared
springs,
Some lay and panted on the flowery
banks,
And some, the lustiest of the shining
throng,
Made noises undevout within their throats
Like luminous oaths obscured with mystic
song
Sung by a candidate ’mid failing votes.
But Blossom had the halo on her horn
When Abraham, awakened by the din.
Shook his wide beard across the clamorous
morn
And smiled as at some memory of sin.
“Cows ! Real cows !” the ancient patriarch
cried.
“Hebron! Jerusalem! This does for
me!”
His feelings he was impotent to hide,
He raised his voice—“Ho! Sarah, come
and see!”
Swift was his going. In his eager eye
A new, bright flame was burning large
and clear.
He turned and saw a sweating angel fly
Close up to him to try and gain his
ear.
“What! Cows!” the hoary saint said with
a roar.
“You want to drive them out and save
the place?”
“Yes,” said the angel. “All the years
before
The High Guard has not known so much
disgrace.
“We chased the creatures here, we chased
them there]
The havoc wrought to shrub and bloom is
great—
As easy might we the entrenchant air
Invite to sit upon a dinner-plate.”
“Gadzooks.” said Abraham, “the smell is
good.
I was a dairy farmer in my day.
Heaven’s grass was wasting as the matter
stood
And milking cattle pay but as they
stray.”
“Great sir,” the angel said, “what shall we
do?”
“Do?” asked the patriarch. “Where’s he
who owns
The first good cows that Heaven ever
knew?
Bring him in flesh and blood or dust and
bones!”
Softly the angel answered and salaamed:
“The Court of High Inquiry clerk has
found
A person long and well and truly damned ;
His name is Murphy, tiller of the
ground.”
The word of Abraham went, forth with
might,
Great seraphs winnowed down the yield-
ing air ;
And in the middle of a summer night
They lifted Murphy by his radiant hair.
Up, up, they bore him till the stars and
sun
Were as a dust of gems beneath his
feet;
And with a final flutter and a run
They dumped him limp into a hcavenly
seat.
Poor Murphy trembled. Clearly he was
dead.
Wild thought of judgment filled his aching
brow;
And then he saw a patch of simple red
That grew to placid outlines of a cow.
“Blossom!” he cried and wondered. There
she stood
Sniffing tlie golden paths with easy
scorn,
Deciding that the blossoms were no good,
A halo tilted on her off-side horn.
Behind her came a mass of hoary hair
And a deep voice across the silence
spoke—
“ You Murphy?” Murphy took himself to
prayer,
But managed just to murmur, “I’m the
bloke.”
“Abraham here.” The patriarch gripped his
hand.
“This place was never decent until now.
Light up! See all those sweeps of dairy
land.
Well, till to-day we never had a cow.”
Faint in the distance bugles sang and
died.
The cows remained; the angels passed to
rest.
The asphodel was trampled far and wide,
The thornless roses crushed from east to
west. ...
“My Chaldee bull,” said Abraham, “was
great.”
“Jersey for me,” said Dan and slapped his
thigh....
Blossom began to eat the Tree of Fate
And found the sentences a trifle dry.
DAVID McKEE WEIGHT.


The Bulletin
I Queensland Agents—UULMlSS « IiHIiKCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Olllre —1)8-107 Featherston Street, Wellington
WESTIN GHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
[Victorian Ollier—“Chancery House,” 485 Itourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH X CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A
WEST, N. S. WALES
PROVED !
Those advertisers who are in the position to
test results have proved time and again that
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
is definitely the finest result-getter in all Queensland.
It is more than 50 years younger than its morning contemporary.
Its circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be greater
than any other Queensland daily, and its influence and reader-value
are certainly unsurpassed.
Rate cards, specimen copies, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-94 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise you do not consider the
money involved as a speculation. You treat
this expenditure as an investment and expect
a reasonable return on vour outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in the
affairs and development of Victoria. Its
present powerful position has been gained by
its literary worth, which appeals to an intelli-
gent public, and by its accurate and complete
news ser-vice. These factors, having a direct
bearing on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser looking
for the best INVESTMENT for his advertising
expenditure.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation,
123,533.
Hates on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Clk fldomiscr
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Cordon & Ootcli, price 1 id.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literaturer
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
Che mercury
(Tasmania's National Daily)
carries regularly a far greater total
volume of advertising than any other
newspaper published in Tasmania.
IT is thus, judged by the use made of
its columns, the most popular
as well as the most powerful of the
newspapers of Tasmania. t
PROFIT by the experience of the
leading national advertisers, and
place ‘‘The Mercury” first when
advertising is under consideration.
Average Net Circulation, 20,967.
TT is, undoubtedly , Tasmania’s ablest
1 and best conducted newspaper.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
F. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
fiedtimeio a food
tim* any.
time it the tujht
time to take .
pMa
Worth a
Guinea
a Box.
jm
o
re
0
■■■ ■ -
SsSSSW***' -
RE AD
The Bulletin
Be up-to-date. Read the full details of the Parisian new season’s
creations in the finest 3d. weekly magazine ever published in Australia.
FREE PATTERN - - - HOLIDAY FROCK.
6
0°
,\C e Q* r •
rt 6 ..
S e *
(S e ...**** ...<)<
• **


pARDEg
fOMEDAS
pFgd I
I Perthh
m
r
FINE
§**. *r*
AS EXCLUSIVELY SUPPLIED TO THE
& uOcstSnD Clubs
JolmDewaroSons L d
Distillers PERTHIScorIandU LONDON
PRODUCE OF SCOTLAND.
,or HCO UNDER THE supervision OF THE COMMONWEAL™ cuSTO
la»viMlsla
