

nSSsI
SBPIB
mmHI
HHHHS
KSi
• ' .-■ 4. ■ -/'-.
"’ VvP'.-, P
ISMPtiilllll
"Ms**. S V 'V|
....
a s
H
■ .-'■ /■
: *.’ / k 1
wm
W W
V
-sHW
aas
s
i
y°=
all
m
I
, : 1
■■
Haw
fc2al
v> a
ss
y*## s
;;-,.W- :
|HHMI
M
t&
: ; *«
3J
S&4
If
M
•V„
w
. V.
S
m
■
m
m
m
W
...'j
£3
MM
m
RES*
I ffii
*
:C*s
i
±4
•Awl:-
)k*
m
m
&
a
(g
R
i
n
': ■ -.
li
s
m
e
I
4§
a?
n
%
%
■
sssasB^S
xSj
''■ • *.
S
■
H
..',H-- : 3
m
WM
\
■
mm&
r
m
i
* -i
i
*wm
*
HI
m
Hi
§1
■
1
■
■
i
hi
tf - ;
* *>■,
m
a
f
r
-net inexpensive
He really will appreciate a gift like this. Who wouldn’t?
The cigarettes alone, ioo Country Life —the most
popular cork-tipped, better quality cigarettes in
Australia to-day* —would receive a warm welcome.
But with a handsome plated cigarette-case and ash
tray too, this is the complete gift. “Just perfect,”
you’d say. He’U call it “Great”
At tobacconists throughout Australia.
Country UFE
Made ut Ijour Oivn Cwiutrj at the Garden Factorif -Kaleioji Tark -bij W.B. &H.O. Wills (Australia ) Ltd
The Bulletin
w
Vol. 50.—N0. 2601.
ŵ
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


YY7RITE for the Library Catalogue and
** terms, and lists on all subjects, which
will be forwarded post free on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
JQmJ
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name '
My Address
S.B
IL.YSAGHT
o
3
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght's Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
HW 3
;\r
HAIR
need
fjO
HERES
Wlti
w
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
gPOlbwiS CMEXICAN)
UkUnult Stain
''removes the grey *
Sole Australian Averts:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct Oil 6), Sd. being postage.
ŵ
-
He’s planning for the
future by using
fii li«* lira
Ointment and Soap
By using this combination
regularly he is making sure
of a healthy scalp and good
hair —both now and in later
life. You can be just as sure
as he is! Start today!
Soap Is., Ointment Is. and 2a
Talcum Is. 3d. Sample each free.
Address: “R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S/W."
<v-
“The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania.
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
same day of publication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from:
. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Li
73-75 Patterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. V. W. Margetts,
I 22 Flinders Street,
Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
726 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN’*
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Fit?n\
6 6
7
Sold Everywhere.
PRICE 1/-
£
KILLS
M
<*+
%
m
5§2
The Red Page
The Springs of Poetry.
A recent number of the American
Musical Quarterly contains an article on
our early bush-ballads that ought to stimu-
late our interest in these quaint fragments
and lead us to ask questions about our
poetry. Why is it, on the whole, inferior
to our prose in robustness and character?
Why does it seem to be growing thinner
rather than gaining strength? Some people
may be inclined to dispute both these
suggestions, and there is a long journalistic
legend to support them. But; after poring
carefully over some recent anthologies,
there remains no doubt in my own mind.
Our poetry is not so important as our
prose; it hasn’t the same vigor and sub-
stance. Where it smacks of the soil it is
usually crude and superficial; where it
doesn’t it is often abstract and merely
literary.
Anthologies are not, of course, an abso-
lutely sound basis for judgment. They are
often compiled by professorial and bookish
persons who are poor guides to what is
vital in literature. Such anthologists tend
to select what is safe, what reminds them
of something generally accepted as good,
what, in fact, has no original virtue. But
our anthologies are neither better nor worse
than the general run of such things; they
may be taken as representative of our
poetry. And if they are not very inspiring
that must be the fault of the poetry itself.
Why, with a new landscape and new life
to start from, isn’t there more freshness of
imagery and idea in our poetry? One of
the answers surely is that we began badly.
Kendall, with his genuinely lyrical gift,
hadn’t the native strength necessary to a
pioneer ; . he couldn’t enter into the life
around him or suffuse the rough, colloquial
names that bubbled out of it with his
own poetry. Gullies, piaddocks, the bush,
were words that seemed harsh to his ear,
vibrating as it did to the rhythms off
English poetry whose music haunted him
“as the wind a tree.” He could look
out on the world about him and talk of
dells, rills, woods and meads. The poet
in him responded to the beauty of his own
hills and creeks, but his weakness was that
he couldn’t express it except in words that
carried alien associations and an alien atmo-
sphere. He was followed by Victor Daley
and others who were still more under the
influence of words and images that had
already been used in poetry. Daley’s “Sun-
set Fantasy,” which many of us in our
youth used to think nearly as good as
Keats, is not so highly rated now, but it
has been a fertile parent. Take the reams
of verse written with the intention of
carrying the eye from the object in hand
into distant, exotic seas. Poets look at the
things around them with no purpose but
to use them as a peg on which to hang their
random, romantic gleanings.
A tea-chest reminds them of scented Cathay.
So “Kodak” wrote in criticism of such
rhymes a few years ago.
And they can get dreamily, drowsily drunk
On the sight and the smell of an old leather-trunk.
They are not carried inward, as they
should be, to the heart of the object, but
outward to the periphery, where they can
gather in a host of associations that seem
to them poetical. The effect of such verse,
in bulk, is one' of rhetoric; there is a lack
of intensity. And since nothing is so tire-
some as the rhetoric and romanticism of a
previous generation, we are gradually dis-
carding Essex Evans, Brunton Stephens,
Arthur Bayldon, even Victor Daley and
others who once seemed to possess the
verbal magic of pure poetry.
The question is whether our poetry
wouldn’t have been more securely based
if it had been built on our primitive early
bush-balladry. No gems of folk-art are
put forward in the M usical Quarterly, and
most of the selections have already been
printed in A. B. Paterson’s volume of bush-
songs. But they are worth studying. There
was a simple, direct feeling in the man
who wrote:—
I’ve shore at Burrabogie, and I’ve shore at Togan-
main,
I’ve shore at big Willandra and upon the old
Coleraine,
But before the shearing was over I’ve wished my-
self back again
A-shearing for old Tom Patterson, on the One-Tree
Plain.
And there is a genuinely lyrical impulse
in another refrain:—
And we camped at Lazy Harry’s on the road to
Gundagai.
Both bits of verse are nearer the heart of
pohtry than some of the rhymed philosophic
reflections that the anthologists wish to
preserve. Both have more real historic
value than the sentimental rnaunderings of
poor old Parkes,
The trouble with our recognised bush-
balladist like Ogilvie and Paterson, who
followed the early anonymous ones, was
not their subject-matter but their sophisti-
cation. They started at a time when Kip-
ling had infected the world with his swing-
ing; rhythms and rollicking point-of-view,
and their genuine feeling leaked out of those
long, mechanical lines that w’ere not dic-
tated by their subject but by a current
mode. The literary poets, in reacting
against their style, reacted also against their
sources of inspiration. To be a poet was
one thing; to be a “bush-poet,” quite an-
other.
Has the divorce been good for our poetic
growth? Is our poetry as rich and robust
as it might be? I don’t, think anyone can
honestly say “Yes” to these questions.
VANCE PALMER.
Banned Books
I grew up in an Australia that until the
war permitted me freely to read practically
anything in the realm of social science.
With the war came the prohibition of
hundreds of books deemed dangerous for
Australian eyes. When the many regula-
tions authorised under the War Precau-
tions Act were repealed there was re-
enacted as amended a Literature Proclama-
tion (16/6/’2l) which prohibits the importa-
tion of literature wherein are advocated
force, violence, assassination, destruction of
property and sedition. In 1927 a list of
nearly 200 “publications of which delivery
has been refused” was laid on the table of
the House of Representatives. Since the
administration of the Proclamation permits
of continuous additions, it would be inter-
esting to know the total number of the
banned.
If you handle books you do not know
until you “fall in” what works you may
not handle. Last May the Socialist Party
of Victoria received notice of the seizure
of 10 copies of “L’Almanacco de L’Esule,”
with a demand for an explanation. This
almanac of the exiled of Italy is an anti-
Fascist compilation. Surely the contention
is incontestable that neither modern Italy
nor Mussolini can be interpreted or under-
stood if the anti-Fascist view be inacces-
sible? In April last a Melbourne booksellei
was called upon to explain why he had
imported copies of “The Socialist Standard,”
a monthly founded in 1904 in London and
known throughout the world as the foe ot
the parties opposed to political action and
the foe, also of the Communists.
These are typical cases. A critical and
strongly intellectual magazine of Inter-
national Labor, the Labor Monthly, was
until Fenton, M.H.R., removed it from the
prohibited list, sometimes seized and some-
times delivered, yet every now and then
its sellers were worried with departmental
threats. The loose terms of the Procla-
mation can be stretched to debar from
entry into Australia well-nigh every work
on political economy, Marxian economics
especially. Works of a political and indus-
trial character are abundantly on the index
of the banned. Even a book of fairy tales,
printed in English, translated from the Ger-
man, was seized. In operation the ban is
like a nation cutting off its nose to spite
its face. Consider a personal experience.
When during the last British general elec-
tions the Communists issued a manifesto to
justify their contesting of seats I failed to
see the document until I got a copy of
“International Press Correspondence”
(Vienna), which is on the Customs index.
To get, the manifesto meant something
to a Socialist constantly contesting the
merits or demerits of theory, prac-
tice and strategy in the polemical tussles
within the circles concerned with prole-
tarian philosophy. On the whole the
banishment of the theses of the leaders of
thought in Russia (or elsewhere) must mean
that not knowing their position we our-
selves must remain in ignorance and be the
weaker in consequence. True, the list of
Pratten’s regime aimed to keep out of the
country everything considered Red, but
what it did was to impoverish the libraries
of our universities, Parliaments and news-
papers. He is a poor economist, publicist
or leader-writer who does not, know his
subject from all angles.
Here are some of the banned:—
“Manifesto of the Communist Party,” by Kar!
Marx and Engels (a classic, published iti 1847, and
printed in all languages, including Australian).
“Imperialism,” by Lenin (no man knows Imperial-
ism in its ugly potentialities who does not know
this book).
“International Socialist Review,” United States
(defunct these ten years).
“Two Pages from Roman History,” by l)e Leon
(a warning against Labor leaders).
The Sunday Worker, of London.
“Where is Britain Going?” by Trotsky (give the
man his due, he’s a rich writer).
The Teachers’ International.
Russian Trade Union Pamphlets (absolutely a
revelation on unemployment, social insurance, etc.).
“Soviet Russia of To-day” (the Report of the
British Workers’ Delegation).
“History of the Zinoviev Letter,” by McManus.
Circulars Issued by the National Minority Move-
ment, London (the movement itself is in Australia).
Labor Songs.
“The Theory and Practice of Trade Unionism,”
by Arthur Greenwood (Minister for Health in the
MacDonald Government).
“The Paris Commune,” by Louise Michel (the
lady was one of W. T. Stead’s character sketches).
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


'Truth in Advertising,” the foundation of all Anthony Horderns’ Announcements .
9^
BE-
There’s a real Xmas feeling*
about
Handbags & Fancy Goods
Some gifts have no especial significance—they may be as suitable
for one occasion as another. But there is something distinctly
"Christmasy” about Handbags and Fancy Goods—a kind of
Yuletide feeling that makes them particularly adaptable for
Christmas gifts. The real spirit of Christmas is embodied in the
gifts suggested below.
Anthony Horderns'
(The Senior Store)
iSMigj
'{ft
Directory
m
*
Zii
Sfc
m-
is
B'.f.X
Q 56U —Telephone Directories.
Hang or stand. Price, each,
3/6. .
1/6, 1/11, 2/11
Others
ẁ
QS9U Japanese Lacquered
Work Box. Price, each, 8/11
QIU' —Cigarette Case and Lighter to match. A
splendid gift. Leather covered. Price, set, 10/6
Q 2U —Cigarette Case. Attractively covered in
Pink or Saxe Blue Leather. A small, but .sti ik-
ing gift. Price, each 3/0
Q 54U —Attache-fitted Writing
Case, In Brown R.exonoid,
with one lock. Size, 12
inches. Price, each 17/6
With two locks; size, 14
inches. Price, each, .. 20/-
Q 2U —Ladies’ Handbag in washable Calf;
two-tone effect. Lined Moire; fitted division,
inner pocket and mirror. Colors: Mid Brown,
trimmed with Beige; Dark Beige, trimmed
with Light Beige. Price, each .... 17/11
Ql6U —Ladies’ Pouch Handbag in real
Morocco, lined Moire. Fitted double division,
inner pocket and mirror. Colors: Beige,
Covercoat, Brown and Black. Price, each,
31/6.
ẃ
ẅ
Qs2U—Leather Cloth Tourist
Cas- Complete with writing pad
and envelopes; three pockets.
Price, each 12/6
w
ŵ
Postal Address:
Box VMQ, G.P.O.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
’Phone: M 240)
Day and Night.


m
. ■> /#
3
tf-i
■iff
et
i ITJ \
TO
*
<=s
m
TCDAY’S SMARTEST SEDAN
s
tea
3P
3
TF~
I
-m
t-s-»
. r
1/
FP
THE long, low graceful lines of the Nash “400” need
no eccentric ornament to give them beauty and
character. “400” colours are in the correct mode of the
moment. Coachwork compares most favourably with
that found in custom bodies of the highest price.
Complete equipment leaves nothing to be purchased
later.
Nash engineering offers many owner advantages such
as a Twin-Ignition motor, ensuring greater, smoother,
more economical power . . . Outboard mounted hydrau-
lic shock absorbers that make rough roads smooth . . •
Centralized chassis lubrication that oils 29 vital chassis
points at a touch ... A steering mechanism that pro-
vides unmatched ease of control . . . and other features
usually associated with cars of much higher price.
Here is the car of cars for families who appreciate true
luxury yet wish to avoid excessive cost.
Nash Prices range from £375
Distributors for New South Wales:
WILLSFORD, LTD.,
132-134 Phillip Street,
SYDNEY.
'Phones: 8W2291 (5 lines).
Distributors for Victoria and, Tasmania
RICKARDS BROS. PTY., LTD.,
567-573 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE, Cl.
’Phone: F 3114.
Distributors for Queensland and Northern Rivers
PEELS, LTD.,
407-431 Stanley Street,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
'Phone: J 1561.
Distributors for South Australia and Broken Hill:
AUTOCARS, LTD.,
58-72 Flinders Street,
ADELAIDE.
'Phone: Central 5500.
Distributors for West Australia:
ERIC MADDREN MOTORS, LTD.,
996 Hay Street,
PERTH.
'Phones: 85610, 87634,
TASMANIAN DEALERS:
THE SERVICE CO. OF TASMANIA, 56 Paterson Street, Launceston.
E. MEERMANN, 135 Bathurst Street, Hobart.
BENNETT & GILBERT, Best Street, Devonport.
nasih "Ann
Leads the World in Motor Car Value


yvINCHESTER
TRADE MARK
Revolver and Pistol Ammunition
Sr.
>v
f
Sr
<y.
r <e
Ss
1
«=»£*
m
as
<9
1®
aR
M
r
w
world'famed for accuracy
and power; for uniformity and
dependability. Longexperience
in ammunition manufacture
has shown us exactly the kind
of cartridges each shooter
needs, — and we make them to
suit that need. Constant tests
and rigid inspection insure
each cartridge being up to
Winchester standard. There’s
a Winchester cartridge to fit
every standard make of revol-
ver or pistol. Most of the pop-
ular sizes are now furnished in
the famous Winchester Stayn-
less line of non-corrosive
cartridges.
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN. CONN., U. S. A.
*JTAI W « y . use Winchester Ammunition u’ith~Kvj. {
j|_'Winchester Arms they are made for each otherJi "*
14
“The Theory and Practice of Leninism,” by Stalin
(printed in Australia).
“Shop Talks on Economics,” by Mary Marcy,
uiS.A. . T , . ~
“The Peasants’ Movement in Indonesia.
“The ABO of Communism,” by Bucharin and
Preobazhensky.
The big majority of the publications on
the list are printed in English in England
and sold openly throughout Britain. Apro-
pos, a Melbourne business man, who had
purchased certain printed matter while in
England, found his luggage on the Nar-
kunda searched at Fremantle by four Cus-
toms officers, who seized a dozen pieces
of literature, including the “Pan-Pacific
Worker” (published in Sydney), and “The
Challenge of Bolshevism,” by Mrs. D. F.
Buxton, of the well-known family of
Quakers.
R.S. ROSS.
Australians Abroad.
R. S. Panton says I am “all Wrong about
Australian expatriates” (R.P. 20/11/’29), but
his reasons strike me as unconvincing.
He says, for example, that he has never
met an Australian in England like Sinclair
Lewis’s Lady Ouston. Neither have I met
Miss Edith Sitwell, but I do not question
her existence. I know several Lady
Oustons, as everyone does who has seen
anything of the Anglo-Australian set in
London. Equally unsatisfactory as evi-
dence is his statement (intended to throw
scorn on my reference to “the chill depths
of the English county”) that he “rode 2000
miles on a push-bike through England,” and
found it “soft, dimpled, smiling, ruddy,
anything but chilly.” He doesn’t specify
the time of year. For a few months in
every year (sometimes alas! it is only for
a few weeks) England is the most enchant-
ing land on earth. During the other months,
comfort, as I said in my article, has to be
organised. There are very few weeks in
the year during which comfort has to be
organised in, say, Sydney.
In many respects Mr. Panton, while
seeming to challenge my remarks, endorses
them. He says: “For persons of intel-
lectual or artistic leanings, Europe is cer-
tainly their home.” I said: “There are
more cultural contacts to be madie in
London than in an Australian city.” I
went on to remark: “But 99 per cent, of
our ex-patriots never make such contacts
or want to”; and that this is so I know
by personal experience. The last person
the average Australian wants to meet in
London or Paris is an artist or writer, unless
the intellectual happens to be also a
social light.
Mr. Panton seems just now to be going
through what is known as “the Bohemian
phase”:—
Then there is the cafe life; the cafe habit, to
which all fall victims. Cafes where one can drink
coffee and read the papers of any nation; cafes
where one can make love; cafes where one can
dance or listen to operatic music. One wonders
what life was without them, and how one could
live without them. They are a drug more seductive
than opium.
Speaking as one who has known Conti-
nental towns, and particularly Paris, since
he was 12, cafes, except for the purpose of
consuming food and drink, bore me. And
so, I venture to say, they do most others
of British descent after the first flush of
novelty has passed. To sit by the hour
in front of a foul-tasting sirop, or watery
bock, when one might be taking exercise
or doing work, is essentially a European
gift—and not that of the more efficient type
of European either. Anyone, for example,
who expects to find worth-while French
writers or painters wasting their time nowa-
days in cafes in Montparnasse or Mont-
martre will be grievously disappointed.
All the letters I have received about my
article (14 to be exact) and also Mr. Pan-
ton’s contribution suggest that I. dislike
England. On the contrary, I love it. I
was educated there, have many friends there
and still belong to a couple of London
clubs. It is the best country in the world
for a rich man. At its best it is a para-
dise, and when it becomes uninhabitable
the rich can, and do, leave it, or retire, as
the King did after his illness, to one of its
sheltered corners. But it has always been
a dreary place during about eight months
of the year for a middle-class man, and, now
that raised wages have half-ruined the
domestic service industry, it is harder to
keep warm, dry and clean there than ever.
The same applies in a slightly less degree
to Northern France and Italy. For the
middle-class man, be it understood—the man
who can’t afford to be driven about in
closed cars, live in a home or flat with
central heating, shoot at £1 a bird, hunt at
£5 a day, fish at £lOO a rod, pay 255. for
a stall (as I had to at Yvonne Printemps’
show in London last year), and so on. It
was the thought of this class, to which I
belong, that caused me to speculate on why
so many Australians suffer from oikophobia.
JOHN DALLEY.
A Mad Frenchman
If the Routledge title, The Women of
Cairo, induces a few extra to read the
recent translation of Gerard de Nerval’s
“Voyages en Orient” the happy end will
have justified the commercial means. It
is the sort of travel book that proves how
dull the other sort of travel book really is.
“De Nerval”—his real name was Gerard
Labrunie—was a lunatic. Born at Paris in
1808, he published a book of poems when
18. He showed further symptoms eight
years later, when he suddenly fell in love
with a comedy actress. That love fired his
imagination without satisfying it, and he
found his way into an establishment for
the insane. Thence he started off on the
tour that resulted in the “Voyages,” which
appeared in serial form in 1846-47. His
visits to the madhouse became more fre-
quent, until on a freezing night in January,
1855, he disappeared, and next morning was
found hanging to the bars outside the
window of a miserable lodging-house.
Not a very cheerful little story, but the
bald outline of his life will be found the
only cheerless thing about Gerald. His
translator, Conrad Elphinstone, compares
him with Charlie Chaplin. If Gerald “set
out through the garden of the Palais Royal
with a lobster at the end of a blue ribbon,
he did so probably without any desire to
create an impression upon the bystanders,
and even without any sense of the ridicu-
lous.” That, anyway, is the spirit of his
“Voyages.” He goes, to begin with, to
Cairo, and, satisfied that the hotel charges
are a bit stiff, establishes a house of his
own, and spends a .small fortune doing so.
Not the least expensive item is in fitting
the home up with a woman, a necessity
because, as the landlord delicately intimates,
the neighboring lesser halves could never
feel safe unless he did so. This seems
quite reasonable; he buys a slave, a Malay
girl, rather independent and given to curs-
ing, but, generally speaking, satisfactory.
Gerald’s home life, and, incidentally, his
literary manner, can be gathered from one
passage:—
You may imagine my surprise when, one morning,
entering the slave’s room, I found a garland of
onions hanging across the door, and other onions
symmetrically arranged above the place where she
was sleeping. Thinking that it was but a childish
fancy, I took down these ornaments, which seemed to
me ill-fitted as a decoration for the room, and
threw them out carelessly into the courtyard. Tilt
slave got up in a rage and a terrible state of
distress, and went out in tears to pick up the
onions and put them back again with every sign
of devotion. I had to await Mansour’s arrival for
an explanation. Meanwhile I was deluged with
curses, the most obvious of which was clearly the
word ’“Pharaoh.” I was not quite sure whether I
ought to be angry or sorry. At last Mansour arrived
and I learned that I had interfered with a spell,
and that I should be the cause of most frightful
misfortunes which would full upon both her and
myself. After all, I said to Mansour, we are living
in a country where onions once were gods, and
if I have offended them, I ask nothing better than
to recognise the fact. There must be some way of
appeasing the resentment of an Egyptian onion.
But the slave would not hear a word and kept on
looking at me and repeating “Pharaoh!” Mansour
told me that this word meant “an impious and
tyrannical creature.” I was grieved at such a
reproach, but very glad to learn that the name of
the ancient kings of this country had become an
injurious epithet.
Of the language difficulty, he further
observes: —
Lord Byron once said, from his own experience,
that the best way of learning a language was to
live some time alone with a woman; but surely it
is necessary to have a few simple books, too, for
otherwise one learns nothing but nouns, no verbs.
He has a witty contempt for English-
men. On the top of the Great Pyramid he
knows that a man who speaks to him is
not an Englishman, because there was no
one there to perform the essential intro-
duction. The Egyptian word “tayeb”
cannot be compared with the English “god-
dam,” “unless to mark the difference be-
tween a nation which possesses polish and
one that has no more than police.” So
he goes on through two handsome volumes
—a riot of delicious lunacy.
A Satchel of Books
The Five Spirits, by Paul Busson (Heine-
mann). A skilfully done translation from
the German by J. Eglinton. It deals with the
Austrian Tyrol during the French Bavarian
invasion of the Napoleonic period. The
love-affairs of refer Storck, culminating in
his rescue of the lovely Julia from the
obscene celebrants of the Schellbock, mingle
excitingly with realistic descriptions of the
fighting.
The Road to Kashmir, by .Tames Milne
(Hodder and Stoughton; Dymocks). Going
down through “the ditch” and the Red Sea
to India, with a keen eye for particular
curiosities and general characteristics, Milne
makes a lovely and companionable travel
book, and the publishers do their bit by
making the book itself a piece of beauty.
Milne’s style is restrained, and yet he gives
most convincing impressions of exotic set-
tings. A fine lot of photos aids the word-
pictures, and the curious buff-colored paper
seems to provide the right atmosphere.
The First Boole of TJrizen, by William
Blake (Dent). Reproduced in facsimile from
the original of 1794, owned by the late
Baron Dimsdale. The reproduction, like
those of “Innocence and Experience” and
“Marriage of Heaven and Hell,” is designed
to advance complete understanding of the
poet, much of whose work is incomprehen-
sible without the accompanying illumination,
just as his pictures are often meaningless
without the poetry. As Dorothy Plowman
has pointed out, neither illustrates the other.
Blake’s art was a blend of two art mediums.
It is in the light of this that these Dent
reproductions become supremely important,
since of “Urizen,” for instance, there are only
six originals extant.
A Camouflaged Revolution , by Herbert
McKay (Wells, Gardner, Duston and Co.),
is written in the John Buchan manner. The
inevitable Bolshies are first encountered in
“a house on the moors, miles away from any-
where,” and the three young patriots from
London insist on stirring up this hornet's
nest, though warned of their peril by the
local rustics. The usual fights, pursuits,
arrests, escapes, attempted murders, rob'
beries, bombings, shootings and so forth fol-
low, culminating in a last nightmare struggle
with The Tiger, or head Bolshie, in the
underground fortress of steel and concrete
which the authorities have carelessly allowed
him to construct. The best that can be said
for this nonsense is that it inculcates no-
thing more harmful than the joys of violence
and hatred.
Answers to Correspondents.
% •»» taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be t ™ili tl i is undertaken re contributions volun-
Name and address must appear on the MS. No \ tamos accompany,
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompar y.
W.M.P.: Carefully done, but we like more
meat in our meal....H. P. Toxic: Doesn’t strike
us as a true picture. . . .W.T.L.: Poof ! It is gone.
W.E.W.: Got to a second reading; but the
conversation is stilted and the satire strained....
V. : Good idea, not convincingly handled....
Biddo: Not a gleam.... Down: Quite true. But you
don’t judge a yarn that way, do you ?... .Nodrog:
Gut out your paragraphs and send them to The
Bulletin accountant, or indicate exactly where he
may find them H.E.P.: They’re rather oppressive.
. ...L.P.: “Supplication” won’t open the ti 11....
.M.0.N.: Where it isn’t prose it isn’t verse....
L.W.B. : The world is so full of such obvious things
that critics get almost as dismal as kings... .M.F.:
The surplus stock of khaki,
The legacy of war,
Is practically exhausted now —
Why should we order more?
Brilliant idea —have the next one a nude war....
B. : Forget what your earlier verse was like, but
if we were sarcastic it must have been far below the
standard of your latest 10t....T.G.: “Victory” has
ended in rout.... M. W. 0.: Seventeen of us had a shot
at “The Enigma,” but it won hands down.... Tom:
“1 enclose full name and address in ease of accident”
is the best covering letter of the year... .W.A.11.:
Had you stated your case more briskly it would
have gone in K.11.A.: Admiration is not enough.
You need to impart it.... Canute: Falls away to
nothing A.E.S.: “The City” has been destroyed
by fire. .. .P.L.G.: Drags S.A.R.: “Verdict” —
stamp sentenced to hard labor. ... J.A.: At least one
of them was not written in Bananaland... .0.K.:
Statement to the same effect has appeared....
W. : Correct; and it was Archibald who also
said “The Bulletin is not what it was —
thank God!”... .Miranda: A par. which begins,
“There is for every period in a man’s life a cor-
responding philosophy,” gets what it deserves
D.C.: Has merit, but it’s a deadly humdrum metre.
....8.5.: Idea hackneyed; rhyme scheme mono-
tonous. .. .W'.T.M.: Correct verse, but there’s little
music in it O’Beau: Flippery little things
D. 8.: “Cui bono?” Crux criticorum... . Grey
Nurse: And so say all of us:—
Coogee has shown Australia how to keep the Shark
at bay.
And you can surf in perfect safety any time of night
or day.
So here’s to the inventor of the fence and the Rand-
wick Council, too,
Who removed all Coogee surfers from Mister Shark’s
Menu.
F.C.L,.: Can’t see anything in that
M.Q.P.: Unlimber —it’s all too stiff. .. .R.A.N.: Go
thou and do better Macgee: But the book was
praised in The Bulletin months ago L.L.W.:
Can’t place the movie criticism there. Would make
a strong Poverty Pointer.... Tee Essbie: Don’t think
it worth answering E.R.R. : A bit earlier you’d
have been all right. You might get another oppor-
tunity later E. 0.: Not enough meat in the article.
....Gregor: There was another on it in print
C. : Intended using it, but hasn’t it appeared
elsewhere ?.... J.D.: Not direct enough for the Red
Page; the other may do C.R.S.: Might do when
it can be based on his b00k.... Ground P.: Annoyed
by your frequent contributions? Good heavens, no.
In fact, prepared to write your epitaph: “tong
loved and rejected”... .Le Glaneur: Can’t get en-
thusiastic over ’em... -Midge: Returned, marked
“Fragile”.... Karta: Mostly prose lines.... lona :
Doesn’t tempt us to go and have a look at th»
hills Potash: No space for rhymed description.
.G.A.: “Sevastopol,” “The Kreutzer Sonata” and
“War and Peace” are others by Tolstoy. Dostoiev-
sky’s “The Idiot,” “Crime and Punishment” and
“The Brothers Karamazov”; Gogol’s “Dead Souls ,
Gorki’s “The Outcast”; Turgenev’s “Fathers and
Children” and the short stories of Pushkin are-
obtainable in English L.G.: Nearer truth to say
that when age comes in at the door, love flies
out at the window... .B.B.: “Gone” precisely.
. ...G.H.S.: Too juvenile to show definite promise.
. ...R.S.: True to its type, average 0n1y... . Kenn:
Material there, but construction poor. ... J.A.C :
“Brandy” underproof... .C. 8.: A delicate —too
delicate—little aquatint Q. 8.: Quite well done,
but on the mournful side... . V.C.: No badge of
courage this time A.M.: More gloom. Johnny
Jones: Idea of a devil as mascot for a car is that the
deuce looks after his 0wn....F.C.: “For Ever and
a Day”—no, not a minute.... G.G.: Can’t mother
“Mother” G.T.: “Missed?” Not the return mail,
anyway... .Tree-tops: Timber too soft... .G.W.W. :
“Sir. Smith” is on the back track S.T.W.:
Give the jackeroo a rest. .. . W. 51.8.: There’s a muen
brighter side to “Living on the Land”... .E.J.W.:
Too topical Geozoic: Some good grains in it;
but we want our chaff winnowed... .J.S.: Thanks.
It is one of the improvements in view' Scar:
You take too long to get there Steve O’D.: Worse,
you can’t get there C.L.: “The Picturesque Atlas
of Australasia” was published in 42 parts in 1886.
Detached engravings are of no commercial value.. . .
E. : (1) Brentano’s, Fifth-avenue and 27th-street,
New York. (2) and (3) Can’t trace any record ol
him. (4) “John Cumberland,” by J. L. Michael
was published in 1860 by J. It. Clarke, Sydney
(5) Worth about its published price.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.F.C.: No use for disturbance in the nursery....
M.P.: That gag comes in every month.... H.L.:
“The Last Ball” is evidently your first drawing
F. : A heap of bad linework. . . .8.G.: Why resur-
rect a joke dating back to George IV. ?.... J.W.:
No wonder she’s neglected if she looks like that....
H.S.W.: It doesn’t make us love banjo-players any
the more A.E.R.: You can’t conceal mistakes
by drawing them as small as that... .E.C.M.: The
lad has nearly everything to learn.... 8.P.: Feeble.
R.A.N.: The Religious Editor is composing an
epitaph for it T.N.: Better drawn it might appeal
to some other paper... .11. M.: At least you are in
sight of land D. 8.: Neither of any account....
A.M.C.: Sorry, but they won’t earn you the price
of a Christmas beer G.C.: Get rid of the super-
fluous lines and draw more carefully... .J.A.C.;
Pre-war M.J.T.: Linework too thin and wobbly


w
FAMOUS
PORT
mm£S&
• ■
/
m
m
.
£
mt.
*WO3M
> mw
mm
HBI
■I
■
m
■
...
#
3MHP
.
■
Fk
■
■
IL LIN
■I
if*
■
H
HHIH
■
, w
* IFf-l
!
.
■
■UNI
'
m ■ ■
‘ B


The Bulletin
Vol. 50.—N0. 2601.
December 18, 1929.
“The McPherson Government having been defeated, Mr. Hogan, though without an absolute majority, has accepted the Victorian Premiership.”
“YOUR BED, MR. HOGAN! A HAPPY CHRISTMAS, MR. HOGAN!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
214 George Street, Sydney; It ox 252188.
Victoria: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 249 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westrai.ia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Regent 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to anv address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 4 s . J <> months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, liis. Gd.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom; 4oz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional joz., Id. All Sea Route: IGoz., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
THE SPRINGS OF POETRY, by Vance Palmer 2
BANNED BOOKS, by R. S. Ross . . 2, 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . . . 5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
THE KING WITH THE WOBBLY CROWN . . 8
THE N. S. WALES . . . . 8
NEED OF A NATIONAL GUARD . . . . 8
TRAGEDY OF THE NORTHERN HALF-CASTE 8
SIX HENS AND A DOUBTFUL WORM . . 8
HOW CAN WE HELP WOOL? 9
LET THE AIR FORCE EARN ITS KEEP ... 9
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 9
POLITICAL POINTS 10
“THE LABOR PARTY IS MARCHING TO ITS
SEDAN” —Cartoon by Percival . . . . 10
POVERTY POINT 11
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 11
PERSONAL (with three caricatures) . . .. 13
SOCIETY (with four drawings) .. . . 14, 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..16
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 18, 20
QUEENSLAND INSURANCE 18
ROBERT • REIDS—AND THE FUTURE OF
WHOLESALE HOUSES 18
AUTOMATIC TOTALISATORS 18
TELEGRAPH PICTORIAL 20
FUTURE OF TIN 20
ABORIGINALITIES (with five drawings) 23, 25
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT 26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 31
MORE ABOUT STUBBLE STRAW . . . . 28
DUAL PURPOSE CATTLE 28
CONTROL OF BITTUR-PIT 28
QUESTIONS ANSWERED 31
SMQKE-OH (with three drawing's) .. . . 32
PEN AND PICTURE 35
NEWEST TALKIES 35
BUSINESS, ROBBERY 36
SPORTING (illustrated) ... .. ..39,41,42
ROSEHILL RACES 39
MOONEE VALLEY RACES 39
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 45
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 48
WOMEN’S SUMMER WEAR 48
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 50
“MERRY CHRISTMAS!” .. ..47, 51, 52
TWO COMPLETE SHORT STORIES—
“THE BATTLE OF VINEGAR HILL”—
By J. H. M. Abbott .. . . 55, 57
“DEAD MAN’S SHILLING”—
By Margaret Fane & Hilary Lofting. . 57, 58
VERSE —By Roderic Quinn, Una Currie,
D. P. McGuire, Mary Gilmore, E. M.
England, Kathleen Dalziel . . . . 52, 58
Next Week.
A JOLLY HOLIDAY NUMBER.
“The Judgment of Solomon,” by F. Hives and
G. Lumley, the most humorous story of the year.
“If Miracles Happened,” a striking short story
by Henry Mostyn, whose “Ghosts of Brogan” was
the best tale of its year.
The drawings in this number will be well worth
watching for.
TTie'^nlleix/zt
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 18, 1929.
THE KING WITH THE
WOBBLY CROWN.
The Northern (N.S.W.) coalminers have
been out on strike for nearly a year, and,
although there has naturally been a little
disturbance of trade, and though gas hasn’t
been up to its old quality, the general
public hasn’t been able to notice during the
past four months that anything has been
seriously amiss. As the months have passed
things have been gradually rearranged,
When, therefore, the miners announce that
they can carry on their strike for another
year, the public is getting into the position
of being able to reply that, apart, of course,
from a general strike, it can carry on
indefinitely.
Of course, the newspapers haven’t yet
realised this. There are lots of things
they don’t want to realise, and this is one
of them. In N. S. Wales at any rate the
troubles of the miners and their families,
and the rows of State and Federal politici-
ans and union secretaries over the miners,
make “good news,” and nothing must be done
to spoil “good news.” Yet coalmining has all
the appearance of a doomed industry in
this as in more than one other country. It
was responsible recently for Britain’s longest
strike, simply because the dispute was in-
soluble on terms even approximately satis-
factory; and when the social investigator
gets down to bedrock he finds the same
industry is largely to blame for the
£50,000,000 p.a. that the U.K. is paying in
unemployment doles.
N. S. Wales has lost practically the whole
of its overseas coal markets. A witness
before the Coal Commission said last week:
“About 18 months ago we reduced our
price to tender for 50,000 tons for Java.
South Africa beat us by 7s. a ton.”
And the State is fast losing its valuable
bunker trade as well. The witness quoted
above said:—
“The South Coast, which produced 200,000
tons of coal last year, has lost between £SOOO
and £9OOO because of the price-cutting for
bunkers.”
A recent cable announced that the P. and
O. branch line was converting five steamers
into oil-burners—steamers that at present
consume 35,000 tons of Australian coal
annually. At the end of the war 9 per cent,
of ships were being built with oil engines;
now the figure is 56 per cent. Old King
Coal still has a dominion, but his crown is
wobbling on his head.
Meanwhile there are dozens of important
industries, actual or potential, and with
prospects of years of vigorous growth, which
don’t get one-tenth the attention of this de-
caying and troublesome business. The world,
which plainly has no use for our coal, looks
like wanting our wheat badly before long.
Production in many countries has shrunk,
and grain is imported now into Germany,
Italy, Holland, Belgium, Czecho-Slovakia
and even Russia. In the past quarter of a
century 5,000,000 acres of cultivated land
has gone to grass in France, and 14,000,000
in Germany; and England which used to
be three-fifths arable land, is now three-
fifths grass.
Australia is one of the world’s greatest
car-importers. It makes bodies, plugs, bat-
teries and hundreds of other accessories,
and it is spending millions sterling on speed-
ways that continually increase the number
of car-owners; but it has never made a car.
Tens of thousands of books which have
been printed abroad arrive in the Common-
wealth every year. A simple piece of legis-
lation would result in most of the books
we import (certainly all the novels) being
printed here.
We have 11,000 racehorses in training,
year in year out, to help the worker get
rid of his earnings; but when Brigadier-
General Anderson arrived the other day
to buy utility horses for the Indian Army
only 3 per cent, of those shown to him
proved to be up to the very moderate
standard required. Yet Australia is the
Ireland of the Southern Hemisphere as
regards its natural capacity to produce
sound, flat-legged horses of the hunter and
light-draught stamp. India, Japan and Java
would take from 15,000 to 20,000 animals of
the right stamp yearly if they were avail-
able, and pay £4O to £6O apiece for them.
American tourists are spending about
£100,000,000 a year abroad, and Australia,
if it could get rid of the reputation it is
said to bear in America of being “a nation
of won’t-works,” and get down to the stiff
job of providing the amenities which
modern tourists demand, as the French and
Italians have done, and as the British are
doing, could tap a very fair amount of
this handy money.
There is nothing of the natural won’t-
work about the average Australian unionist,
nor as regards wages is he hungrier than
the next man. All good men want high
pay, whether they are barristers or bullock-
ies,.bishops or barmen. The phenomenon
that threatens to ruin this country is that
thousands are trying to get high wages out
of industries, such as coal and timber, which
are no longer in a position to pay them.
This country might become as prosperous
as the U.S.A. if its papers and politicians
dropped trying to bolster up moribund
industries for the pennies and votes in
them, and started to create new ones that
would give wealth and wages, and relieve
the nation of the burden of strikes and
imports and doles and wasted taxes that is
crushing it.
THE N.S. WALES ½-BUDGET.
Treasurer Stevens, of N. S. Wales, intro-
duced his Budget in an atmosphere of
depression and discontent, whicjh it bright-
ened to only a limited degree. Its most
commendable inspiration is to reduce the
income-tax on individuals by 5 per
cent, and that on companies from 3s.
to 2s. 9d. in the £. The Bavin Ministry
realises that a company isn’t a single rich
monstrosity, but, an agglomeration of indi-
viduals, many of them possessing very
moderate means, and some of them such
exceedingly moderate means that their in-
comes are below income-tax level. It was
practically impossible to avoid giving some
relief, for Scullin and Theodore, having
won their jobs in a great measure by their
fierce opposition to levying on absentee
picture-show millionaires, are trying to
make good by taxing Australians to a degree
which promises disaster to industry. To
some extent, but not a large enough extent,
it is proposed to replenish the Cornstalk
Treasury by increased imposts on liquor
and tobacco licenses, amusements and bet-
ting transactions, and by a rearrangement
of the gigantic bill for Lang’s Child
Endowment.
Despite these alleviations the Budget is a
gloomy document. It is anticipated that
there will be a surplus of £21,386 next June
as compared with one of £593,169 last June.
But the last alleged surplus was created by
leaving £1,039,386 of the railway deficit
unprovided for. It was put away some-
where, and, even if few people know
precisely where, no one doubts that it is
quite safe. The previous accumulated
deficit was put into the permanent public
debt, so it can be found whenever wanted,
though no one has any desire to find it. A
prominent Stevens reform was to pay a
fixed sum to fill the gap between railway
working expenses and interest on one side
and railway income on the other, and if
the sum was wholly inadequate the reform
system declined to accept the blame. It
shouldn’t have been inadequate, and that
was all about it. Still, a shortage can
be neither hanged, flogged nor put in
prison, so the argument lacks force. The
alleged surplus of 1928-29 was really a
shortage of £446,217 on the accounts as a
whole. That for 1929-30 looks like being
really one of £1,018,000 even if the railway
business becomes no worse.
Having produced the half of the Budget
with the small surplus in it, the Treasurer
promised that the half with the big famine
in it will turn up later. In the interval
new Chief-Commissioner Cleary is to dis-
cover where the roots of the trouble lie.
But those roots have been fully described
in a long series of annual railway reports.
They are all matters wholly beyond a Com-
missioner’s control unless a Government
gives him vast new powers. Some of these
are not its to give, but belong to the Com-
monwealth, while others Bavin and Stevens
won’t part with on any account. The
Commissioner himself abated his confident
tone after 10 days in office, and told a
dinner audience that “any man who says he
can take this position over and wipe off the
£1,500,000 deficit is a fool.” And a new
man with a brilliant record in art or ship-
ping or life assurance would possibly have
said the same.
The N. S. Wales loan expenditure for
1928-29 (£16,092,936 according to the Trea-
surer) was the biggest in the history of
the State, or the history of any State, and
was larger than that of the six States com-
bined until 1911-12, and larger than that of
the six States in 1917-18 and 1918-19.
The Auditor-General put the total at
£16,743,136, which was worse. Yet in spite
of record loans the year had a bad finish.
Unperturbed by what looks like cause and
effect, it is proposed to spend £9,710.800 of
borrowed funds this year for various pur-
poses, including hospitals, education, main
roads, relief to necessitous farmers and
immigration. That is provided the millions
can be found, and the finding is uncertain.
THE NEED OF A NATIONAL GUARD.
In Melbourne last week members of the
Military Board supported a proposal to
form volunteer regiments of Australian
Guards. Minister for Defence Green dis-
missed the idea as “absurd,” which might
have been expected of one whose Govern-
ment has just dealt the C.M.F. a death-
blow. Yet some such arm is required by
every civilised State, and it begins to look
as if Australia would need one urgently
before long.
Parliamentary laws, judicial decisions and
the by-laws and regulations that derive
from them, and make existence tolerable for
the ordinary law-abiding citizen, have no
permanent authority unless there is a power
in the background capable of enforcing
them. Nothing more futile and absurd
could be imagined than a Government with-
out the support of some kind of physical
force. No one outside the Moscow-bossed
Minority Movement wanted the general
strike two or three years ago in Britain,
yet it would have succeeded—to the extent
that thousands would have starved, and
looting, bloodshed and perhaps revolution
have begun—but for the Guards. In Paris
every May Day a few thousand Reds, a
large proportion of them not Frenchmen,
try to start a transport strike, and the
property of the citizens and the jobs of the
workers who have no time for such foolery
are regularly preserved by the Cuirassiers.
Guards, Cuirassiers, etc., fulfil the same
function as an adequate gold backing does
in the case of a note issue. Any country
which wants to experience anarchy need
only destroy or dissipate the physical force
behind its legislation.
There is ample evidence that a section
exists in Australia which is l’eady and eager
to hamstring the Judges and police. J. S.
Garden, at a meeting of the Labor Council
shortly before the collapse of the timber-
workers’ strike, said that when the Labor
party was returned “every policeman who
had been associated with the strike would
be sent to Woop-Woop,” and he described
Judge Curlewis as “a capitalistic Judge”
who should be “disciplined.” It is the
same J. S. Garden who has been calling for
a demonstration if the police try to pro-
tect volunteer workers at Rothbury, and
who has been urging a general strike or
declaration of war on the State.
Even if it had no J. S. Garden N. S.
Wales would be under-policed. The work-
ing strength of the force has increased by
only a little over a thousand (from 2400
to 3570) in the last quarter of a century,
in which time the population has increased
by over a million. Apart from their handful
of police the only real powers behind the
enforcement of the laws in these States
(“the one true and proper function of gov-
ernment,” in Herbert Spencer’s phrase) are
(1) the natural disposition of the majority to
refrain from crime, and (2) the knowledge
of the criminal minority that special con-
stables with formidable war records would
come into action if crime was attempted.
These two things, both of them of course
admirable, are still wholly inadequate as
safeguards.
“Nothing short of civil war,” the Federal
Attorney-General says, “would give us the
right to interfere in the N.S.W. mines.”
The tragedy is that this, the only Govern-
ment in Australia with war powers, could
not do anything if civil war did arrive, and
it will never be able to so long as its De-
fence Minister has no use for a corps of
Guards, the institution which has done most
to keep civil war out of the U.K. ever
since the passing of the Army Act.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Tragedy of the Half-caste.
ŵ


JOHN BULCOHN: “Ah, my hoy, I’m delighted to see you. You’ve come to pay
me the £30,000,000 you’ll be owing for interest.”
MINISTER FOR TRADE FENTON: “We’ve got a perfectly splendid idea about
that We’ll give you an IOU, and you’ll give us a cheque, and we’ll hand
it back to you, and then we’ll he square. Won’t THAT be a surprise!”
“The Minister for Trade and Customs has left for London. He hopes to make various financial and marketing arrangements while abroad.”
HIGH FINANCE.
If the Commonwealth should by any
chance knock rather over £35,000,000 per
annum off its imports without any corres-
ponding contraction of exports, the Loan
Council might disperse for a rest, because
its one overwhelming problem would take
care of itself. The 41 or 42 million pounds’
worth of goods which this country pur-
chases annually from the United States
offers a wide field for economy, the more so
as Uncle Hoover is such a rottenly bad
customer in return, and wants to steal Ant-
arctica, pioneered by Captain Cook, in
addition to his other sins.
4
Our Biggest Import Line.
Old-established financial authorities are
practically agreed that imports are paid for
by exports. Yet Australia owed £474,000,000
at June, 1928 (all its external debt that
wasn’t war debt), because to that extent
imports have not been paid for by exports.
Our very largest article of import is, in fact,
the receipt for the year’s interest on the
foreign public debt. That import item is
nearly three times the size of the next
biggest (motor-cars and parts), and it differs
materially from every other item. If the
country fails to get from abroad its usual
supply of buzz-waggons,' or petrol, or silk, it
will be no more than a passing episode. But
if it fails to get from abroad the receipt for
£30,000,000 or so of annual interest, the
result will be bankruptcy and disgrace.
Australia has trusted for years to the chance
of floating new oversea loans to avert this
supreme calamity, and many of its pompous
advisers seem willing to go on trusting.
The trade figures for the year 1928-29 may
be summarised in this way:
Imports.
Receipt for interest on external debt.. £30,000,000
Motor-cars and parts 10,666,766
Cotton and linen piece goods 7,571,121
Petrol . .. 6,861,385
Corn and flour sacks 3,103,924
All manner of things 115,424,837
£173,628,033
Exports.
All sorts, including £3,926,520 of coin
and bullion 144,780,175
Deficit to be made up out of external
loans £28,847,858
When the Statistician adopts the simple de-
vice of thus putting the receipt for the over-
seas interest bill among the imports, the
public will have a clear and honest state-
ment of the position laid before it, and will
know how it stands without any shuffling
or concealment.
4
One Referendum Day Would Do.
Under the Licensing Act of 1922 there
will have to be a prohibition poll in Vic-
toria next year. Any day after March 1
may be fixed by proclamation of the
Governor-in-Council unless a dissolution
intervenes—the thing must not be held
“within three months before or after the
day of a general election.”
Barring accidents, there will also be a
referendum in N. S. Wales on the Bavin-
shaw Government’s proposal for an Upper
House of 60 members, to be chosen in
the first place by the present Leg. Coun-
cillors and Assemblymen at a joint sitting.
The Premier has said that May 3 may be
the date. There is likewise talk in Queens-
land of putting the question of re-establish-
ing a Second Chamber in that State to the
vote.
And the Commonwealth electors will
assuredly be asked once more to give the
National Parliament power to pass laws
dealing with trade, commerce and industry
without the Constitutional limitations
which have baffled Government after Gov-
ernment. This course would be forced
upon the Scullidores by the sorry failure
of their efforts to re-open the northern
coalmines “within 14 days,” as promised,
if they were not already committed to it
by their programme. The Senate is not
likely to block the enabling legislation,
which should be put through in February
or March. The referendum would follow
“not less than two nor more than six
months” after its passage.
Why shouldn’t all these votes be taken
on. the same day? The mechanical part of
the job could be safely left to the Com-
monwealth Electoral Department—N. S.
Wales and Queensland are arranging to use
the Commonwealth rolls for State purposes,
as Victoria has done for several years—
and S. Aus., Westralia and Tasmania
would share in the substantial saving. The
proposals for the alteration of the Com-
monwealth Constitution have been before the
electors on four occasions. Little confusion
would be likely to arise if the Victorians
were asked to say, at the same time as
they dealt with these familiar propositions,
whether they want license or no-license,
the Queenslanders whether they would like
another Upper House, and the Ma Staters
whether they approve of the Bavinshaw
model of a Second Chamber. _ The people
of these States constitute nearly five-
sixths of the Commonwealth electors, and
they could be relied upon to give intelli-
gent answers to both sets of questions.
They would certainly resent having to
make an unnecessary and very expensive
trip to the poll in a time of financial
embarrassment.
4
How Can We Help Wool?
“Buttenderry” : ' “Jumbuck’s” suggested
remedy for what, after all, may be only a
temporary depression in the wool market
(B. 4/12/’29) might be practicable within
limits if Australia produced about 80 p.c.
or 90 p.c. of the world’s wool, and if arti-
ficial silk and such like cheap and popular
substitutes had never been evolved; but,
producing as we do only a comparatively
small fraction of the world’s requirements,
it is hopelessly impossible.
A somewhat similar scheme was applied
to rubber a few years ago by the British
Government, under the Stephenson mea-
sure, and despite the fact that John Bull
controlled about 60 p.c. of the world output,
and that the then price was definitely un-
profitable to the grower, it proved a failure
and was abandoned.
Under “Jumbuck’s” plan we are to
announce to a world fairly well acquainted
with our financial position, and with the
fact that a speedy sale of our primary pro-
ducts is essential to our very solvency:
“Here is our wool; this is our price; take
it or leave it!” The Stephenson plan, less
ambitious, left the price alone, but restricted
the output. The higher the price the less
restriction, and vice versa. The U.S. was
the only country to oppose this scheme,
yet it smashed the thing to smithereens
within a few years by a nation-wide cam-
paign involving the longer use of all rubber
goods, the conversion of tens of thousands
of tons of old rubber into new, and central-
ised buying of the country’s requirements
by a single authority. “Jumbuck’s” larger
scheme, if put into operation, would be
opposed by considerably more than one
country, and would give a tremendous fillip
to the artificial silk and kindred industries.
Our wool industry is not’ as healthy as it
might be; but it is not as sick as it would
be were we to follow “Jumbuck’s” advice.
Its salvation depends on (1) using the
largest possible quantities in our own fac-
tories, (2) greatly reducing drought dosses,
and (3) lowering the cost of transport and
production.
4
Let the Air Force Earn Its Keep!
With the Australian Military Forces in
the melting-pot, the Federal Government
talks of extending the Air Force; and it
ought to be much more easily done than a
lot of other things that Ministers have
talked about.
The Air Force trains at present for mili-
tary work only, and does it on such funds
as Parliament allots. These funds are not,
however, sufficient to provide a trained
force adequate to the war service that may
be required of it. But there seems no good
reason why the Air Force in time of peace
should not take on a civil as well as a,
military aspect. The submarine, the big gun
and a hundred other implements of war are
quite useless for other purposes. Not so
a great many types of military aeroplanes,
which could be used for passenger, goods
and mail transport. While performing these
services for the community, the personnel
of the Air Force would gain invaluable
experience to be later available for military
purposes. At the same time it would earn
its own living in peace, or a great part of
it, with consequent benefit to the taxpayer.
Australia is fortunate in several excel-
lently maintained commercial air services.
They have been popular and have done
good work, but all draw a considerable
subsidy from the Federal Government, with-
out which, they admit, they could not
carry on, since they operate, without ex-
ception, over sparsely-populated routes.
Here is work for the Air Force. The com-
mercial ventures have touched but the
fringe of it.
The Government admits that it must
strengthen the present military air service.
What better way of doing it than by util-
ising its activities to maintain itself, and
by insisting at the same time that the
machines used in civil air services should
comply with a standard which would render
them of some military use in time of war?
In spite of popular belief, the reverse is the
case in many instances, while the condition
of most of the civil aerodromes puts them
quite outside the range of military utility.
Pilots and the few mechanics employed on
these services are of high quality. In addi-
tion they receive splendid training on their
] G ng backblock flights, a course which is not
available now to Air Force pilots and other
personnel, who are, practically tied to their
ba9es because of the lack of funds, save
j n exceptional instances,
Civil organisations plying between such
centres of population as Brisbane, Sydney,
Melbourne and Adelaide need not be con-
sidered, for they should be able to pay their
own way . The suggested service would not
compete with these, but should be given
the airways which at present cannot be corn-
mercially worked without heavy subsidies.,
i nves tors should not reap dividends from
State-subsidised concerns while the whole
community is taxed for the maintenance
of A F bomber squa drons which could
do the work just as efficiently as the com-
merciai unsds
It need hardly be said that the essen-
tial military ’planes of the Air Force, like
the fighters, along with the Army co-opera-
tion and Naval units, would remain an
entirely military force under any such
scheme.
♦
Australian Beef,
. , , : ' , , ,
Australian beef producers felt a brt, more
cheered the other day when the result of
secret ballot by experts in London to
determine the quality of Argentine, Aus-
Trahan and Scottish beef was published,
dne judges were drawn from all quarters
ate to a sealed handicap, so to speak,
Then they voted, and the polling showed
dhat Australian beef got 364 points, Scottish
354, and Argentine 348. The Australian and
Argentine beef was chilled, and the Scottish
dresh. The winning exhibit came from
two-year-old Herefords—the _ class of beef
this paper has been advocating to Austva-
lian growers for some years past. Colonel
Dunlop Young, chief vet. for the City of
London, was among the judges. His advo-
cacy of young beef when he was in Aus-
tralia will be remembered.
♦
“Si Anu” : Minister for Home Affairs Blake-
ley has issued a warning about stage-struck
gi r ls going to Asia. It was needed. Re-
putable companies are in no more danger
there than here. Times have changed and
there are larger communities of Europeans
in Asiatic ports than there used to be. Also,
dwellers take their families with them,
and there is now no lack of unmarried girls
and a respectable social life in places like
Singapore. At the same time, companies
are always liable to fall on hard times, and
if a show is disbanded in Asia-girls are
likely to be stranded. The most frequent
alternative is to find a shop under some
Eurasian or Arab entrepreneur of dubious
morals and uncertain aims. That a white
girl should be earning a living with a semi-
native company is bad for the prestige of
the Caucasian race, anyway.


i<v
S e \
LIGGETT & MYERS
TOBACCO CO.
i m :
■
m
c
m
Hh H 1
f 'V.
§2
POLITICAL
POINTS
The leaders of the northern coalminers
showed themselves in their true colors when
they advised the men at Rothbury, one of
the pits leased by the N.S.W. Government,
to reject the terms of settlement they had
signed at Sydney and recommended at Kurri
and Cessnock. Some of them had the face
to allege that they had signed merely to
certify that the document was a true copy
of an agreement that bound nobody. After
these manoeuvres (aptly described by Suther-
land, of the engine-drivers, as “cowardice
and treachery”) a threat was issued to the
State Government that if it tried “to put
‘scabs’ into Rothbury we will lift the lid
off Hell”! Also, plans were openly concerted
for mass picketing, which is now unlawful,
and a general coal strike. Clashes between
the mass pickets and the police were a
natural result of this crazy leadership.
Section 119 of the Constitution Act says:
The Commonwealth shall protect every State
against invasion, and, on the application of the
Executive Government of the State, against domestic
violence.
If the N.S.W. Government demands protection
against the domestic violence which has
broken out on the coalfields, the Common-
wealth Government will have to furnish it.
For did not the Prime Minister “tell the
people of Australia, through this Parliament,”
on Dec. 3, that “so long as I am leader
of the Government we shall not act in any
manner unconstitutionally” ?
Another little lot of tariff increases made
its appearance last week, together with what
Minister Forde called “corrections of anoma-
lies” in the schedule introduced last month.
Textiles, metals and machinery, oils, wood
and alcoholic liquors are the groups mainly
affected. Whatever its other sins, in this
matter at any rate the Ministry has shown
an honest desire to help Australian indus-
try, and already it can claim that some of
the new duties have had good results. And
there will be more. At this moment, for
example, the old British gin-making firm of
Gilbey is looking out the best place to set
up an Australian distillery.
Defeated by eight votes in Vic Assembly,
the McPherson Government resigned, and
another Labor Ministry is in office. Hogan
is back at the Treasury, Slater at Agricul-
ture and Law, Bailey at Lands and Water,
Lemmon at Education and Labor, Jones at
Works and Mines, and Beckett at Forests and
Health. Old Prendergast graciously stood
down, and Tunnecliffe is Chief Sec., while Cain
has Railways and Electricity. Williams and
Kiernan, M’s.L.C., and Webber and Pollard
M’s.L.A., are the four honorary Ministers.
Pollard, whose selection was a surprise,
will assist Slater with Agriculture, and
Webber will help Lemmon with Factories.
The four Rural Progs, and the two Ind. Libs.
(Forrest and Gray) reinforced the 30 Labor-
ites to shift McPherson, but they are uncer-
tain allies.
Although McPherson has been re-elected
leader of the Vic. State Nationalists, he,
Argyle, Kent Hughes, Menzies, Linton and
Macfarlan may before long be just a metro-
politan group. The TO country Nats, (ex-
cluding Speacock) show a disposition to join
forces with the Cockies, and certainly there
is very little between them. In the end all
the non-Labor sections will probably com-
bine in one party, with the country element
predominating, as in Queensland. The
Labor Government will hasten the consum-
mation if it pays too much attention to the
Age.
It is the pious custom in Queensland, alone
among the States, to knock off work on
saints’ days, chiefly to go to the races. This
year, with Easter arriving early, there were
four public holidays in March (two of
them saints’ days) and three (one a saint’s
day) in April; and, counting Exhibition Day
in Brisbane, there were 16 holidays alto-
gether. A clause of the new Industrial
Conciliation Bill strikes out the four saints’
days. The Labor Opposition, fought it bit-
terly, and suggested that the toilers to be
withdrawn from their devotional exercises
should at least get double pay; but the Gov-
ernment refused to be bluffed.
Scullin’s grant of a million to the States
for “the absorption of the unemployed” on
road works does more credit to his heart
than his head. Roads built with Federal
funds have been known to eat up £20,000
a mile; with all checks removed and a union
ticket the only test of ability, the cost will
be terrific. Besides, some of the States have
already received more Commonwealth road
A PROPHECY FULFILLED.
“I see Labor marching to its Sedan ,"—Frank ," —Frank Anstey (1927).
money than they know what to do with. The
Westralian Works Minister recently ad-
mitted having an unexpended balance of
£852,000, to which £672,000 was to be added
for the current financial year. Now he is
to get another £192,000. This Scullin mil-
lion is to go on to the 20 millions recklessly
promised by Bruce-Page.
A Westralian select committee reported
after the last State election that hundreds
of sturdy fellows, without plans or equip-
ment but well supplied with thirsts, had
been rushed into a doubtful country elector-
ate ostensibly to build a Federal road but
really to make the seat safe for the Labor
member. The bill was subsequently sent to
an unsuspecting Federal Minister. If State
Labor is in the mood for more jokes of this
description there will he opportunities
enough. The special Federal grant of
£192,000 is to be made unconditionally—it
is the State’s share of a round million —and
presumably no inconvenient questions will
be asked.
The Vic. statutes as consolidated by
Cussen, J., will become operative to-day. It
was a monumental task to link the scattered
legislative fragments, but when the McPher-
sons suggested a souvenir of £2500 Labor
frowned and pretended that it would be
insulting to offer the Judge money.
One of the objections to State child-endow-
ment schemes like “Good ole Piddo’s” is
the terrific cost of administration. In N. S.
Wales last year the expenses of distributing
£1,553,985 of endowment money amounted to
£99,352, or 6.4 p.c. Payments are made
by cheque, and the Auditor-General notes
that “the form of the cheques and the ease
with which they may be negotiated make the
risk of fraud very considerable.” ‘He in-
stances a case in which cheques were stolen
and negotiated by a postboy.
The Bavinshaw Government is continuing
the child-endowment business, but is reduc-
ing the tax from £2 to £1 in the £lOO of
wages and exempting employers working
under Federal arbitration awards, the Federal
basic wage being supposed to provide for
a family of five. This is better, but the tax
remains radically unjust—it will still
penalise the good employer as against the
bad. Wage-payers should be allowed to con-
tract out of the scheme by making their
own child-endowment arrangements with
their men. Indeed employers in general
should be encouraged, by income-tax con-
cessions, to make such arrangements. This
would go a long way towards solving the
problem without burdening industry with
an unscientific tax and an inquisitorial and
exorbitant department.
W. L. Langslow, who lost the Castle-
maine-Kyneton seat to Laborite Satchell by
only 29 votes, is seeking a recount by the
elections and qualifications committee of Vic.
Assembly. In other days Pennington won
Kara Kara and It. H. McLeod captured
Daylesford on recounts. Langslow is chal-
lenging numerous absentee votes.
Some of Slang’s men fared badly in the
N.S.W. Labor selection ballots. W. J. Rat-
eliffe, who had a post in the “Scabinet,” was
crushingly defeated by McKell, who was
excluded from that combination, and efforts
to shift Lazzarini (another Minister “dis-
ciplined” in 1917) and old Stuart-Robertson
likewise failed. Another casualty was Mick
Burke, M.L.A. for Surry Hills and some-
time Sydney alderman. Burke got 34 votes
in a poll of 671.
The Franklin Federal seat, left vacant by
the death of Jimmy McWilliams, looks like
going to one of the Nationalists, Blacklock
or Seabrook. Labor-candidate Frost would
have won under first-past-the-post rules, but
with a few hundred votes to come in the
others had 10,428 against his 8294, and his
chance of getting the necessary 1000-odd
preferences is considered poor. Franklin has
never had a Federal Labor Rep., though
there are always Laborites among its six
State members —A. G. Ogilvie, leader of the
Opposition, is one.
The Opposition in the Senate made a poor
fist of its first tussle with the Scullidores.
It carried important amendments to the
Commonwealth Bank Bill, and then with-
drew them, Pearce covering his retreat with
feeble threats. Before they resume hostilities,
the Nationalists ought to get a leader with a
bit of fight in him. Also they will need to
shut down hard on merely mudslinging
attacks like that of Reid on Theodore.
Despite the strong influence exercised by
J. P. Jones, the Vic. Uppish House will
not be as kind to Hogan’s second Minis-
try as it was to his first. The Landlords do
not like the reference in his policy speech
to the need for abolishing them. Of course
the Council cannot be blown up unless the
electors can be induced to return 12 Labor
members in addition to the half-dozen
already there. And that is a large order,
even though nearly every householder has
a vote.
When the N.S.W. Bavinshaw Government
was asked to make the local-government
franchise what it was before the Slangs
introduced adult suffrage, Minister Bruxner
argued that there was no case on record
where the grant of a wider franchise had
been withdrawn. Well, there is one now.
A Queensland measure takes the municipal
vote from boarders, lodgers and occupiers of
property excluded from the rates, restricting
it to owners and occupiers of rated land,
t.ohor-leader Forgan Smith protested that
the bill was “a form of
political atavism,” but the
Government was unmoved.
It said that, as a result of
enfranchising ever ybo d y,
“practically all the local
authorities in Queensland
had borrowed over their
limits.”
The farmers of Calare
(N.S.W.) are telling Labor-
member Gibbons that they
voted for him to the extinc-
tion of Howse, the National-
ist, because he promised
them, in the names of Scul-
lin and Theodore, a guar-
antee of 6s. 6d. a bushel for
their wheat. Now they want
to know what arrangements
have been made, if any, to
pay the 6s. 6d. on this year T s
crop. The Prime Minister
replies, as he did in the
matter of Theodore’s guar-
antees of a satisfactory
settlement for the coalminers
within 14 days, that he is
bound only by promises
which he made himself. In
effect, if his followers, in-
cluding his second in com-
mand, went round passing
valueless political cheques
he is willing to accept the
profits but not the responsi-
bility.
When the Bruce Govern-
ment was being bashed at
Canberra the A.W.U. bosses
and Hughes were as thick
as ft thieves ; the A.W.U. even
suggested to Scullin, so the
story went, that he should
stand aside and let the Little
Digger form a Government.
That is all over now. The Worker, referring'
to the new “Australian party,” observes that
'‘the introductory planks were filched from the
Nationalists,” a whole lot more were “filched
from Labor,” the self-styled opponent of
machine politics was identified with “the
most reactionary; and intolerant political
machine in the Commonwealth,” and sup-
porters of the new “party” will “march
under the banner of Australia’s champion
political renegade and quick-change artist.”
Frank, but not quite in the “Dear old pals,
jolly old pals” spirit.
On December 9 the Scullidore Cabinet
announced by proclamation that from then
up to May 31, 1930, British ships might
carry passengers but not cargo between
Hobart, Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane.
Then some authority evidently hurried to
Canberra armed with spanking apparatus,
for on the 12th the proclamation was can-
celled, and it was announced instead that
permission may be granted for British ships
to carry passengers when there is no accom-
modation available on coastal boats. This
is the plan which has been followed for a
couple of years or more with regard to Bris-
bane and North Queensland ports, and is
quite unsatisfactory. It means that the
crowded-out passenger with a pull can gener-
ally wangle a berth, while the other sort of
would-be traveller is left behind.
THE PROMISEES.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Theodore said that the collieries would be
re-opened in a fortnight if his party were returned.
... .A pamphlet distributed by Labor candidates
promised work for all and a position in the Gov-
ernment service for every partially disabled soldier.
....A Labor candidate for a farming electorate
undertook that a Federal Labor Government would
guarantee 6s. 6d. a bushel for wheat”....
If we were King, they said, if we were King,
What royal gifts about the land we’d fling!
Mines should re-open at our sesame,
Wheat rise in value at our mere decree
That grateful cockies might our praises sing.
No idle derrick anywhere should swing.
Remunerative toil for all there’d be
If we were King!
If we were King, they said, if we were King
(And you electors to your tails can spring
And make us such), we’d never rest until
We’d hammered out a comprehensive bill
For giving our supporters ev’rything
Wherefor their honest souls are hankering.
Take it from us, you chaps should want
for nil
If we were King!
If we were King, they said, results we’d
bring
Like somebody who rubs a magic ring....
And suddenly their cherished dream came
true
And left them (and their dupes) with this
to chew:
Easy such promises about to fling;
But soon or late there comes a reckoning
For him who cannot meet his IOU —
Who cannot do the things he said he’d do
If he were King!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


THE LAW OF AVERAGES.
JOCK GARDEN: “What you boys need is for me to organise a general strike.”
VOICES: “Garn! You’ve mucked up every strike you’ve ever been in!”
JOCK: “That’s the very reason. A man’s luck’s bound to turn some day.”
Poverty
Point
“Hops-and-Scotch”: Muriel Starr created
the role of Madam X in Australia and has
played the part hundreds of times. The other
day she met the famous lady on the talking
screen. Not a single line of the stage play
came from Madam's lips!
“NTmporte”: Alfred O’Shea during his
recent Australian tour was interviewed by
an obscure country pressman (me). The.
great man looked, and then inquired if I
were “one of these critics.” I assured him
that I was merely a modest hack, and he
expanded upon his grievance. The Austra-
lian press regarded him as they did the
movies or a circus or any other performer
that they relegated to the unimportance of
the entertainments column. “But I am an
artist,” he pleaded. “I am not a mere
singer. I have worked with Toti dal Monte
and the like. I should be referred to in the
important part of the paper. That is what
they would dp on the Continent, you know.”
I was awed. He got an 18-point top on the
leader page next morning.
“C. 8.”: Include me amongst the critics
who have incurred the wrath of producers.
On one occasion an angry entrepreneur
stormed my office bitterly complaining that
my remarks about the star, who happened
to be his wife, were not criticism at all but
personal abuse. It appeared that I had
commented adversely on the lady’s voice. I
pointed out that -as she wasn’t acting in a
dumb pantomime her voice was part of her
histrionic equipment, but he refused to be
mollified. However, I handsomely declared
that I was sorry I had pained the lady;
whereupon he replied, “Oh no, you haven’t!
She insists on never being shown any criti-
cisms that aren’t favorable.”
“Dinn-Dinn” : A redson why .the present
legit, houses will hold their own against the
movie “palaces” is inherent snobbism. Mrs.
Sassiety may be glad to sit in a comfortable
movie seat, but such comfort cannot be pur-
chased at the price of finding herself next
to the grocer when the lights go up. Years
ago a music-hall proprietor who knew his
Freud remodelled his theatre and staggered
London by inviting patrons, per poster, to
“Come and spit on Bill Briggins’s new
£lOOO carpet.”
“Mr. Cato”: Ranter had been boasting of
some great success of his in comedy, when
the dramatic critic of the Daily Bugle came
in for a gin and bitters. Ranter nodded to
him brightly: “I was just telling the boys
of a time when I used to get the laughs.
You remember, perhaps, when I had only to
come on the stage and the house would go
into convulsions?” The critic murmured
reflectively: “Ah yes, I think I remember
that time.” “Do you?” exclaimed Ranter
eagerly. “Didn’t I tickle the audience in
those days, eh? Didn’t they nearly die of
laughter?” The pressman thought a moment.
“Let me see,” he said. Then: “Ah yes! I
remember the time you are talking of. Yes,
you did make ’em laugh. Yes, of course
that was when you were understudying
and played the lead in ‘Hamlet’ for two
nights, wasn’t it?”
“C.M.”: The latest expatriate Australian
to deliver a parting kick in the pants to
his hosts on leaving the country is Arthur
Benjamin. One of his cruellest comments
was that music in Melbourne was hope-
lessly old-fashioned. Considering that he
came here to adjudicate in connection with
the Royal Academy of Music examinations,
and that 25 p.c. of entrants for the L.A.B.
degree, the highest award in the gift of the
Academy, scored a bull’s-eye, his argument
is a trifle hard to follow. This average is
well up to the standard attained in other
countries. As for Melbourne being old-
fashioned, the year has seen the perform-
ance of the greatest works of Beethoven,
Mozart, Brahms and other composers who
are only out-of-date in circles where
freakishness is mistaken for inspiration
and the orchestration of motor-horns
is regarded as more important than
the expression of human intellect and
emotion. But perhaps, like Frances Alda,
Arthur was only rationalising his private
irritation. His own performances did not
excite uncontrollable enthusiasm.
“Ganem”: H'annen Swaffer, whom a
Poverty Pointer called “London’s most in-
sulting critic,” adding, “he is really very
sensitive himself,” had some pluck to publish
in 1925 “Northcliffe’s Return,” in which he
asserted that he had received through spiri-
tualism many proofs that his late chief was
alive on “the other side.” Swaffer knew all
the Philistines would jeer—and they did,
with - gusto. He got more vitriolic abuse
than even an American actress could ladle
out. Incidentally, that journalistic hard-
case “Smiler” Hales, in his book “Where
Angels Fear to Tread,” asserts he has re-
ceived messages from some who passed over
during the argument with Fritz and co.
Mr. Scullin might be delighted to know
from these sources that the othersiders are
“out to stop war.”
“Caesar’s Ghost”: It is only the dead bones
of pantomime tinselled over with vaudeville
comedy that are rattled these r }ajs, and
managers are pretty well all convinced that
the game is no good. J.C.W. have definitely
decided to drop the old frolic. George Mar-
low will provide the only show of the kind in
Sydney this year, and the announcements
for it were belated. In other days the
arrangements for the impending “Gorgeous
.Christmas Spectacle” .began six months
ahead. The free pantos arranged by the
emporiums with big toy and Christmas gift
departments have. cut into the business a
lot. It’s even betting that a kid, promised
a visit to a theatre panto, will plead to
be taken, instead, to Fluff and Co.’s. He
will mostly show taste in doing so. The
shop shows stick more to the stories with
which kids are familiar, and keep off the
close-to-the-knuckle jests that are either
meaningless or worse to nippers.
“Santander”: Percy Marmont, one of the
purple patches in “Fair and Warmer” in
Australia* has been secured by Cosmo Hamil-
ton to play the incorrigible Charles 11. in
Cosmo’s adaptation of his novel, “His
Majesty the King.” Marmont must possess
some charm or aspect of personality that
makes him peculiarly eligible for the por-
trayal of outstanding identities. For the
filming of Conrad’s “Lord Jim” he was hired
at enormous expense to express in a dozen
or more standard studio grimaces the strange,
elusive pathos of that remarkable character.
Of course he was a failure, but he strove
bravely to give some hint of the tragedy
stirring deeply in the vitals of Conrad’s hero,
“Peter Pan”: After a season of 84 weeks
Nellie Bramley announces her retirement
from Brisbane Royal at the end of the
month. Business is still excellent, but
trouble with her health, which is showing
the strain of an appearance in a new role
every week for so many weeks, has moved
the closure. During the' past 12 months, the
most critical the legit, has ever known, the
little Royal has proved the most steady and
consistent theatrical goldmine in the coun-
try; the takings have been “capacity” every
week, varying by only a few pounds. That
the prices were on a par with those of the
talkies was one important factor.
“J.C.” (Cambridge, Eng.) : “Journey’s
End” is being extensively played in Germany
under the title of “Die Andere Seite” (“The
Other Side”). The play has had a good
reception everywhere; but I wonder how
much of its popularity was due to the title,
Taken all round, there is surprisingly little
war bitterness in Germany, and least of all
towards Britain, so it is strange that the
title of this play should have been thus
altered. “Die Andere Seite” obviously re-
moves the generality of application which
the play has under the original title.
“L.H.P.” : Many are moaning that the col-
lapse of the Wilkie campaign in Sydney pre-
vented the projected revival of “Lear,” but
when Wilkie did that Shakespook at the Con.
a few years ago it did not set the harbor
on fire. In fact, it is the least satisfactory
of the Wilkie offerings, and few visiting tra-
gedians have staged it in Sydney. Fair-
dough, Creswick and W. E. Sheridan (his
star rble) were the only mummers seen as
the bewhiskered old sov. on the local boards
before the Wilkie outburst.
“Listeninsect” : Vic. holds the world’s record
for wireless licenses per TOO head of popula-
tion. The figures are 8.23, as against 4.88
for the Commonwealth. 6.96 for U.S.A. and
6.02 for the Cold Land. The preponderance
over the rest of Australia is partly explained
by the climate. The weather in Vic. is
eminently adapted to encourage the stay-at-
liome habit. In addition, the population is
more concentrated. At the same time, some
of the credit should be given to the pro-
grammes. Since the change-over the A.B.C.
has dug up a lot of new local talent. The
notion that if a Toti dal Monte sang once
in a century the rest of the programmes
didn’t matter has been exploded.
“Musicus” : “L.H'.P.” (B. 27/11/’29) errs
in attributing the opera “Goyescas” to
Breton. It is by Granados, and was first
produced in New York, 1916. It is grand
opera of a fairly high standard, and is in the
regular repertoire at many world-famous
opera houses. In spite of a fairly compre-
hensive knowledge of Spanish music, I can
recall no shows of the names of “Maruxa” or
“Jardin de Oriente.” Anyway, neither is by
Breton.
“L.H.P.”: Max Frigman, a comedian here
in 1919, played the Prefect in the
New York production of “New Moon,”
which is about to shine on Sydney Majesty’s
stage. In the Drury-lane show were Aus-
tralia’s old friends Vera Pearce (Clothilde),
Howett Worster (Robert), Gene Gerrard
(Alexander) and Barrie Livesey (Fouchet).
The New Moon is a ship in the era of
Louis XVI., and the plot has quite a Sabatmi
flavor. One scene shows the New Moon
fighting a pirate ship, and there is a fine
march for chorus in V-shaped formation
about one of the leads at an improvised
wheel, giving the effect of a ship ploughing
through water.
“ ’Ops” : Mention of Lady Meux, ex-music-
hall star Val Rhys (B. 27/11/’29), reminds
that London’s swankiest new musical-comedy
home, the New Dominion, is built on the
spot where her brewer-husband made a for-
tune out of beer.
“Fade Out”: The hysterical outburst of
sympathy for Philip Drew, the English
actor, following his acquittal on a murder
charge, landed him in the front line of
music-hall stars. Nowadays, however, the
movie people don’t like that sort of publicity,
and a firm distributing films in which he is
the chief draw has been knocked back by
the trade in England. Many exhibitors
flatly refused to book the films, and the Eng-
lish movie-trade press makes no bones about
its opinion of the “unpleasant sensational-
ism” of the Drew case.
“Three Ages”: “L.H.P.” (B. 11/12/’29)
recalls sundry “Twelfth Nights” but misses
one. I’m not strong on the Bard, but I
believe Janet Waldorf was the lady. I
remember sitting in the gods and eating
a bag of green apples during the show, and
if J. B. Atholwood was not the Sir Toby
Belch I’ll eat ’em again.
“Santander”: “A Hundred Years Old,”
the long, uneventful spasm of Spanish rural
life which was recently staged by Melbourne
Repertorians, has, curiously enough, caught
the fancy of New York. 'ln the cast are
Georgia Harvey and Katherine Grey, both
of whom have been seen in Australia.
Katherine, of course, is no longer the shirt-
waisted young lady who dimmed the glory
of Julius Knight in “The Lion and the
Mouse.”


Some day you’ll buy her
FRIGIDAIRE
Why not this Christmas?
not give her Frigidaire for Christmas? This truly modern refrigerator will
end all the work and worry she now has to keep food healthful and appetising
in all sorts of weather.
She will be able to cater more economically— to buy larger quantities of food and store
them in her Frigidaire as long as necessary. And she will have no bother with Frigidaire, for
it is ENTIRELY AUTOMATIC. Week in, week out, the strong, quiet mechanism
needs no adjustment, no attention.
Frigidaire cabinets are sturdily
built in order to last virtually
a lifetime. The appearance is
beautiful, too —the outside of
steel finished in enduring white
duco or lustrous porcelain-
enamel; the inside, one piece,
seamless porcelain-enamel—
easy to clean and keep clean.
Plenty of space on the roomy
shelves for large quantities of
food and tall containers.
And with “Cold Control”—
the unique feature which Frigid-
aire alone provides, she will be
able to increase the freezing
speed at will and make all
manner of frozen dainties, ices
and ice cubes.
If you can, select her Frigidaire
from the large range of models
on view at our showrooms. If
not, write for Booklet B 3 and
full particulars of how you may
purchase a cabinet for a small
deposit and generous terms
extending over two years.
X
fr
13,
ZA
DISTRIBUTORS.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 307-15 Kent Street, Sydney.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 380-82 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 233-35 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD., 172-74 Pulteney Street, Adelaide.
STEWART & MACLEAN, LTD., 104 George Street, Launceston.
H
iitiiniiiiiiHiimiiii
X
o
O
iiiiiiiiiimiii
>
6
/pl^v
0
i
mmiiiiiiiiitiiiniii
jimii)
ft
f?
iiiimiiiimii
ft
3 r
0
1


%
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER Hon. J. A. BOYD
Total Assets exceed . £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
(2) In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
the Asnociation and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
ded action made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men c‘ integrity.
proportionately.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary,
GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Australian-born members of the House of
Commons include two N. S. Welshmen—
Harold L. Boyce, a Sydney Grammar School
boy, who was adviser on international law
to the Australian delegation at the League
of Nations Assembly in 1922; and W. P.
Crawford Greene, son of the late Geo. H.
Greene, M.L.C. Both are Unionists. John
Scurr, Labor member for the Mile End divi-
sion of Stepney, was born at Brisbane in
3870; and ,T. E. Mills, Labpr member for
Dartford. was born at Perth (W.A.) in
1882. Other Australian-born Commoners are
Westralia’s Newton Moore (Unionist) ;• Dr.
Marion Phillips, formerly of Melbourne
(Labor) ; Leonard W. Matters, formerly of
Adelaide and Perth (Labor) ; and -Godfrey
11. A. Wilson, Unionist member for Cam-
bridge Uni. Wilson, a Melbourne Grammar
product, was recently elected master of
Clare College.
The Zionists’ biggest success in Australia
so far has been in enlisting the sympathy
of Theodore Fink, who has undertaken
to go to Palestine early next year to see
what the organisation has done; although
he is 75 the trip has no terrors for him.
The British Zionists roped in Lord Melchett
for the same purpose, and his inspection of
the Holy Land under its new administration
J.G. ARKINS,
N.S.W. Govern-
ment Whip, who
was last week
presented with a
silver tea and
coffee service by
the members of
the party.
resulted in
large invest-
ments, besides
direct gifts to
the funds of
the organisa-
tions. Fink,
though no end
of a financial
magnate these
days, was
quite a Bohe-
mian thirty-
forty - fifty
years ago, and
was Phil
May’s g u i d e
and friend in
Melbourne, and
his pretty fre-
que n t com -
panion in Syd-
ney also.
Dr. Cleary, R. C. Bishop of Auckland,
who passed over at 70 the other day,
was the Dominion’s leading ecclesias-
tical journalist. He edited the Tablet for
12 years, only leaving the chair to put on the
mitre in 1910. And he hadn’t done with
printer’s ink even then, for when he returned
M.L. in 1918 after service as a padre
with the N.Z.E.F. he founded the Month,
which he edited till the end. He wjis born
in Wexford, educated at Maynooth, Rome’
and Paris, and spent 10 years as a parish
priest in Vic. before he crossed the Tasman
in 1898. It is claimed he was the first
bishop in the world to use an aeroplane on
his rounds—his record in that respect goes
back to March, 1919.
Menzies, K.C., and Downward —two of the
eight new members elected to Vic. Assembly
—are sons of former members. There are
others who are carrying on family traditions.
Bill Everard’s dad was in
the first Vie. Assembly 70
years ago. The father of
T. C. Manifold, the new
member for Hampden, was
once M.H.R. for Coran-
gamite and a relative was
President of the Legislative
Council. Maurice Black-
burn’s distinguished rela-
tive Alexander McCrae was
P.M.-G. in the fifties. Wet-
tenhall’s sire, Holford
Highlord Wettenhall, was
in the Plush House in the
’eighties. Knox, who was
sec. to the McPherson
Cabinet before he was
made an Executive Coun-
cillor, is a son of William,
who was in the Reps, after
he tired of being an M.L.C.
“Mulga” Taylor, a
N.S.W native who served
a stiff term of imprison-
ment for the part he took
in the Queensland shearers’
strike of the early ’nine-
ties, has sat continuously
in the W.A. Assembly for
a longer period than any
other member. “Mulga,’’
who forsook shearing for
mining, was returned with
the first batch of W.A.
Labor members in 1901 and
has held his goldfields seat,
the boundaries of which
have been periodically en-
larged as population
dwindled, ever since. He is an ex-Speaker.
W. J. George, who came from Birmingham
and specialises in foundries, antedates Taylor
as an but has a slightly shorter term
of service. George was first returned in
1895, but lie resigned to become Commis-
sioner of Railways in 1903 and didn’t return
to Parliament for some years. •
A pair of enterprising Maorilanders who
first saw Asia Minor when they were with
Allenby’s army, and stayed on because they
reckoned it would pay to bring the most
ancient of lands up-to-date, are the brothers
Norman and Gerald Nairn, who hail from
Blenheim. As a start they set up a motor
agency in Beirut, and seven years ago, at
the request of the British Postmaster-
General, organised a motor-mail service
across the desert from Beirut to Damascus
and Bagdad. This service is now a most
luxurious affair in which huge six-wheeled
cars are used. Recently they started an air-
line between Damascus and Bagdad. Their
flying carpets ; carry 12 passengers and are of
the three-engined type, covering the 530 miles
in 4J hours. The Nairns’ worst troubles on
the motor route so far have been the
Euphrates, which has a big flood regularly
every two years, and Arab bandits.
Few men were better known on the Dar-
ling Downs than Colonel H. Venn King, who
passed out in Toowoomba at 87. For many
years he had an interest in the famous
Gowrie station; in the end lie bought out his
partners and settled there. He opened up
the first paying colliery on the Downs, and
founded Weelamurra station on the War-
rego. Colonel King commanded the Queens-
land contingent sent to England for Queen
Victoria’s Diamond Jubilee; later he was
commander of the 14th Light Horse. Early
in the Great War he spent some time in
Egypt as O.C. of a remount unit.
Gifford Sherman Reade, who died at Auck-
land the other day at 84, lived so quietly
that his vast wealth was not suspected until
quite lately. He had been a merchant in
India and came to Maoriland 14 years, ago.
In July last it was disclosed that he bad
made a gift worth over a million to the
British nation. It consisted of 850 acres
of land at Holbrooke, in Suffolk, presented
to the Admiralty as the site for a naval
school. Generous provision is also made for
equipment. The gift is made as a recognition
of the services of the Navy in the Great War.
Richard Stone Wilson, the last survivor of
the relief party which in 1861 found King,
all that was left alive of the Burke and
Wills expedition, died in Melbourne a few
days ago. The expedition passed very close
to where Broken Hill now tries to keep
cool, and the city has named its municipal
wards Wills, Burke, Sturt and King. But
that part of the West Dai-line didn’t need
exploring: early selectors, mostly from Vic-
toria. had been followed by surveyors who
dotted that part of the country with Cri-
E.W. HOLDEN, managing
director of the great motor-
body building co. of Adel-
aide and elsewhere, who is
off with his family to see
what Europe is doing.
mean names —Sebastopol, Balaclava, Kars
and many more—and the Crimean War
was one of the thrills of the earlier ’fifties.
Of Westralia’s 11 Federal members six
started in the State Parliament and four
held office there. Ivingsmill, the Senate Pre-
sident, and Gregory, M.H.R., were returned
to the W.A. Assembly in 1597; the former
was in the earlier post-Federation Cabinets,
the latter was Minister for Mines for many
years. Senator Lynch was in Westralia’s
first Labor Ministry (1904-05). Senator
Colebatch was a later vintage; entering the
Leg. Council in 1912 he
rose rapidly, and was Pre-
mier for a few weeks in
1919. Subsequently he
was Agent-General.
The estate of W. H.
Williams, better known in
the Maryborough (Q.) dis-
trict as “Old Bill,” who
passed out some months
ago, has been proved at
over £633,000. He was a
native of Birmingham, who
came to Australia in 1562.
He scored heavily as an in-
vestor in the early days of
Gympie, pioneered sugar
growing in the Isis, and be-
came a director of the
great firm of Walkers, Ltd.
—the ironfounders for
whom J. F. Archibald once
pushed a clerk’s pen.
Having outlived her. octo-
genarian husband and
mature son, who succes-
sively sat for Daylesford in
Vic. Assembly, Mrs. Annie
McLeod died at Middle
Park last week. The elder
McLeod entered Parlia-
ment after retiring at 63
or thereabouts from the
town clerkship of Dayles-
ford, and he held office
under Irvine (1902-04),
Bent (1904-09) and Pea-
cock (1915-17). His son
R.H. succeeded him after
a tussle before the Elec-
tions and Qualifications Committee on a re-
count, but he had a short reign.
Arthur O’Connor, appointed to represent
the Australian National Travel Association in
the U.S. and Canada, is Victorian-born, the
youngest of three brothers, all journalists.
The other two both died in Westralia, where
Arthur helped to run papers for years, with
A.N.A. activities for a side-line. He once
stood for Parliament unsuccessfully. New-
ton Moore gave him a job at the London
Agency-General in 1914, and, though it
didn’t last long. O’Connor did not get home
again until the war was over. Since then
he has been on Sydney Sun and Melbourne
Herald, representing the latter at Canberra.
Major “Jimmy” Loynes, until lately
War Service Homes Commissioner in
Queensland, goes to M.L. seeking health. Born
in Birmingham, James was a sergeant-major
in the Ist Q.M.I. in the Boer War, and
later a subaltern in the sth Q. 1.8. In
Palestine with the 11th L.H., he galloped
his squadron by night into the fortified rail-
way station of Semakh, and cleaned up the
garrison in one of the bloodiest hand-to-hand
scraps seen on the Eastern front. Loynes got
a well-earned D.S.O. out of it.
Duncan Carmichael, the “man in grey,”
whom Harold Clapp appointed nine years
ago to stand on a Melbourne railway
platform and be an “Inquire Within for
Everything” on the subject of trains has
retired. Carmichael has answered millions
of questions on all sorts of subjects; and been
of material service to travellers beyond count-
ing. He has been kept sane by a sense of
humor. One story he tells is of a man with
his wife and numerous family staggering
under a terrific load of parcels and luggage.
Mum asked what time the next train went to
Healesville (it was Christmas Eve), and on
getting the information turned to Dad and
said: “Have you got everything?” Dad
gasped “Yes; everything but the blinking-
piano.”
“Ida D.”: Many of the “pastoral group”
of Australians who went to Patagonia (B.
4/12/’29) have made good, married British
girls and settled down there. T. T. Norris
(Mudgee), known far and wide as Don Tom,
is now general manager of the Argentine
Southern Land Company’s group of estan-
cias, with headquarters at Pilcaneu. Eric
Dunlop, one of an old Goulbnrn family,
manages Leleque, the “mother” estancia.
Mackinnon, another N. S. Welshman, is at
Maiten. Don Guido (Guy) Dawson, son of
a former Monaro stock inspector, is running
an estancia in a sheltered valley of the
Andes, which has an English summer cli-
mate and is snowed in during the winter.
Rawd.on Chomley, a Victorian, is now at
Maquinchao, whither lie has brought an Aus-
tralian bride.
William Neill, dead in Adelaide at S 3,
was manager of the Federal Bank till it
closed its doors in 1893, and afterwards a
public accountant and university lecturer ou
finance. Pie could look back on two achieve-
ments : in 1880, when stamp duties were
introduced in S.A., he got the Supreme
Court to upset a ruling that bank-deposit
receipts must be stamped; and in 1914 he
found a flaw in the new Commonwealth bank-
notes, so that the Fisher Government had to
put a validating bill through. Mrs. Neill
was one of the Register Thomases.
W. 11. Ryan, re-appointed Commissioner of
Police in Queensland for a further term of
four years, donned the uniform, a lad of 20,
36 years ago. He has passed through every
grade of the force and seen service in all
parts of the State. He became a sub-
inspector in 1911, chief inspector in 1923,
and Commissioner two years later.
A. J. Kirton, who lost the Morning-
ton (Vic.) seat in the final count by 300
votes, is a brother of Joe, of Ballarat West, who
nearly 40 years ago gave up letter-carrying
for legislating in response to what seemed to
be a public' demand for promising young
Australian natives. Others of his period
were Deakin, Watt, Peacock, McGregor and
Toutcher, who all rose rapidly, but Joe’s
chief plank was economy, and he drew Par-
liamentary disfavor on himself by caustic
remarks on railway free passes and criti-
cisms of Ministerial junketing. He never re-
covered from the unpopularity which it
earned him.
“Lydney”: Lord Bledisloe, M.L.’s G.-G.
elect, has filled almost every high office
open to a devotee of husbandry in
the Old Country, including some whose
origin is lost in the mists ot antiquity. As
well as having been president of the Board
of Agriculture and the British Dairymen’s
Association he is a “Verderer of the Forest
of Dean,”, whatever that may be nowadays.
His devotion to cattle and pigs is expected
to endear him to the islanders, who haven’t
had a Governor who could really appreciate
a cow since Ranfurly departed in 1904.
“Uramao”: Touching the death of Sir
Genille Cave-Brown-Cave (B. 6/11/’29),
Maoriland had one of the family 20 years
ago—Captain Cave-Brown-Cave who lived in
Wellington. He patronised the swell hotels
when he was in funds; when these petered
out he took any old job and lived at any old
boarding-house. During the maritime strike
in 1913 he was a free laborer, and careless
of risks would stalk majestically through the
strikers to pick up a beer at the nearest pub.
The war found him in command of his old
company, and left him several steps higher
in the Army,
If all candidates for Parliament adopted
the same methods as Laborite Hodges, who
opposed breezy Bill Everard for Evelyn
(Vic.), campaigning would become a joy.
Hodges brought with him a party of enter-
tainers to beguile the audience between
speeches or parts of a speech. The man with
the flair for showmanship owns a suburban
newspaper.
A tough old pioneer is Harry Stuckey,
weathering it out in Cooktown (Q.). It
was he who found and cut a track down the
H.M.
CREMEAN, the
new ML.A. for
Dandenong (Vic.)
—he defeated
Minister for Rail-
ways Groves and
thus won another
seat for Labor.
jungle range be-
tween Cooktown
and the Bloom-
field, making it
possible for stores
to be carried by
pack-team overland
to China Camp in-
stead of round the
coast by luggers.
The pass is still
used. Stuckey was
a live figure in the
roaring days of the
Palmer and Cook-
town ; one of the
pioneers of the
Mclvor lands, he
later settled on the
Starcke to prove
that there is gold
in bullocks as well
as in wash-dirt.
A good Digger went under when Robert
Newell Gilmour’s aeroplane crashed at
Grenfell (N.S.W.) recently. Gilmour was
an alumnus at King’s School, Parramatta,
when war broke out; but he lost no time
in, enlisting. He was a son of Raymond
Lionel Gilmour, of Blacladown, Bathurst,
and a grandson of John Newell Gilmour,
who, with William Lee and Andrew Kerr,
founded some of the earliest stations on the
Bogan River.
THE EXILE.
[FOR THE BULLTTIN.]
Weary of Cockney clerks who ape
The manners of a class with none;
Who lounge by Rotten Row agape,
And lisp “It simply isn’t done” ;
Who browse at A.B.C.’s on bun
And milk, or dreary teas-and-toasts,
I yearn to drift where dreams are spun
By Ferntree Gully’s finger-posts.
I well might bind my brow with crape
Were I dependent on the fun
Which I, an Aussie girl, could scrape
From two to six, from ten to one,
In this dull hutch where shines no sun.
Still lures me, as the starry hosts
Called Cook and Dampier on and on,
My land of roadside finger-posts.
I long to double Leeuwin’s Cape,
Raise islands of the southern run;
But such a costly course to shape
Is out of all comparison
With any wage that may be won
By helots such as London boasts.
My respite’s ended where begun,
’Mid Middlesex’s finger-posts.
Envoy.
Ah. fellow-Aussies, could we shun
The fog that turns to drifting ghosts
Our Cockney comrades, best ’twore done
Where Bughland plants its finger-posts!
LONDON.
KEITLEDRUM.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Cadonga”: The patrol remained in the
shell-hole while the sergeant crawled out to
reconnoitre. Suddenly the blackness was lit
by a minnenwerfer describing a fiery trajec-
tory and descending with a terrifying whine.
At the same moment a Digger in the shell-
hole was knocked prostrate by a heavy body
that caught him violently in the region of
the belt buckle. He lay still, gasping, for
two or three minutes that seemed hours;
then he recovered himself sufficiently to ask
faintly, “That you, Sarge?” “Yes,” came
the answer, also between gasps. “By cripes !”
ejaculated the other, “I’ve been waitin’ fer
you to explode!”
=1: * *
“Murkah”: In 1916 an operator at Sydney
Radio heard an SOS signal, followed by a
strange call-sign which couldn’t be traced.
He knew it must have originated locally,
for the round-the-world ranges of to-day
didn’t then exist. The roll was called over
Australian vessels in the vicinity and ail
responded. Destroyers hurriedly left Sydney
to search the near-Tasman for a possible
stranger in trouble, but none was found.
Finally, vessels in harbor were inspected.
In war-time radio-cabins were locked and
sealed on arrival, and the seal on an Ameri-
can steamer was found to be broken. Ques-
tioning elicited that a Yankee operator had
entered the cabin to show two Sydney girls
how the SOS call sounded, never dreaming
that, with the aerial disconnected, the call
A NARROW ESCAPE.
HER BRUTE: “What’d you pay for the bathing-suit you had on this morning?”
HIS BRIDE: “It was a pound; but they cut a good bit off it.”
HER BRUTE: “Damned good job they stopped where they did. Another snip and
you’d have been bare.”
would leave the cabin. But the spark itself
created sufficient stir in the ether to affect
the receiver at Sydney Radio, 20 miles
away. Probably there is an American
“sparks” who still remembers what his
Consul said to him. I was the Sydney
operator.
* * * *
“Sec”: English cavalry officers in Egypt
were frequently chaffed by Light Horsemen
on their “seats” and riding abilities, but at
Romani I saw a young brass-hat get the
best of the exchange. He was riding past
the camp of the 7th Light Horse, which
at that time had a tough reputation. (They
admitted an average of three crimes a man.)
When the good advice of “Get off his neck!”
“Hold his head up !” etc., were fired at him
the officer turned calmly round in his saddle
and in a cold voice said “Good morning, 7th
Light Horse —those who are not in gaol.”
He was voted a real decent bloke.
“Lao-dah”: The Chinaman’s belief in the
omnipotence of his joss is not confined to
agricultural matters. A market-gardener in
Heidelberg (Vic.) recently recovered from
an attack of gallstones by pasting a red-
paper charm over the appropriate portion of
his anatomy, a similar charm having been
glued to the same area-of an image repre-
senting his patron saint, the Kitchen god.
Annually this puissant spirit makes a report
to headquarters at the Yellow Springs, tak-
ing with him all the household diseases.
Ostensibly, he goes to report the family’s
shortcomings, but as John takes the precau-
tion every year of covering joss’s eyes with
a bandage and stuffing his ears with wool,
what he has to say is not very damaging.
* * * *
“Murkah”: It isn’t often that an inven-
tion obliterates a town. When an enterpris-
ing mechanic in a London garret evolved
automatic telegraph repeaters he rubbed
Eucla (W.A.), of which he’d probably never
heard, off the map. The limit of direct tele-
graphing is about 500
miles. Therefore, the
East-West telegraph traf-
fic had to be re-handled
somewhere along the
Bight, and a telegraph
station and operators’
quarters were erected at
Eucla in the mid-’eighties.
All repeating had to be
done by hand, and in the
heyday of the W.A. gold-
fields there was a staff of
40 men. About 1906 the
auto, telegraph repeater
arrived. Placed under
glass domes (to keep out
dust) these tiny instru-
ments need no attention,
and after padlocking the
room that held them the
telegraph staff left. A
linesman looked in four
times a year until the
Trans, railway was built
and the telegraph poles
followed the new route,
the Bight lines being then
left to rot. But another invention —the petrol-
motor —has given Eucla some sort of a new
lease of life. About 1.00 cars pass through
monthly, and petrol is now stored where once
the busy sounders clicked.
❖ * >!: #
“Centurion”: The baser press is kicking
up the usual shindy because an officer of
the Household Brigade has had to send in
his papers on the eve of marrying an
actress, thus complying with accepted cus-
tom. What it has to do with outsiders it
is not easy to understand, since a regiment
is practically a family circle, and, as such,
has its own private conventions, which vary
with each unit. For instance, take Colonel
Brimstone, under whom a relative of mine
had the honor to serve in the 1880’s as a
subaltern in the 37th Hussars. The dear
old chap took a violent dislike to him, and
did his best to make life uncomfortable for
him. On© morning my relative was paraded
by the adjutant with a request for a week’s
special leave. “What in the name of the
flaming pit do you want leave for?” yelped
the old gentleman. “Well,” replied the
nettled subaltern, “to be truthful, I want
to run away with a married woman.” The
gallant warrior seized my relative’s hand and
wrung it nearly off. “God forgive me for
misjudging you, my boy,” said he. “Spoken
like a gentleman and a Hussar. Take three
weeks!”
“Kappa”: An alert street-merchant may
occasionally refuse a small coin which isn’t
what it seems (B. 4/12/’29), but numerous
shopkeepers take such things over the coun-
ter in broad 'daylight. When they seek to
deposit these in banks, with the rest of
their takings, the foreign coins are faulted
and handed back, and thus most of them
return into circulation. Bank clerks have
to keep a keen look-out for counterfeits,
but when it comes to foreign coins they
sometimes strike a little windfall of their
THERE’S A DIFFERENCE IN UNCLES.
FIRST STUDENT: “Good-oh, Steve. My old uncle has sent me a tenner for Christmas."
SECODN STUDENT: “Lucky dog! Mine wouldn’t spring more than ten bob on my watch.”
own. Recently a Sydney teller found in
a pile of silver he was counting; three of
the old bird-of-paradise marks issued by
the German New Guinea Co. He passed
them, replaced them with the small amount
they represented, and subsequently sold
them for several pounds to a collector. A
colleague in the bank came across a sixteenth
century French coin masquerading as a
sixpence. It brought 30s. from a dealer.
* '!* * *
“Ibn el Issar” : Tell “Beecoy” that the sen-
try he noted during the Gallipoli armistice
(B. 11/12/’29) was certainly not Liman
von Sanders. There was no possibility of
mistaking the blue-eyed, fair-haired Hun of
some 6ft. odd in height for anything but
what he was, however elaborate the dis-
guise. He much prided himself on a resem-
blance to Kronprinz Willie, and, like that
elongated weed, had a neck like a stork such
as no Turk—the Roumi are mostly short-
coupled, heavy-set men —ever boasted.
* * * *
“Squadron Leader”: The padre who
moaned because 5000 bottles of beer were sold
in the canteen (B. 11/12/’29) should have
been at Romani when the Field Force Can-
teen was first established there, after the big
scrap with the Turks. I was on the roster
for the following morning as Brigade Major.
When I came out at reveille to mount my
faithful steed for a ride round the brigade,
the sight 'was a staggerer. All round the
huge tent of the F.F.C. the bottles were piled
six deep, and so, I am sorry to say, were
many who had taken over the bottles’ job.
Over the rolling sandhills on every side
bottles sparkled in the rising sun like helios.
The track to the camp of the 2nd Brigade,
then commanded by “Bull” Ryrie, was an
avenue of dead marines, and the hollow where
the crown-and-anchor and two-up schools had
studied was overflowing. It took all day to
clear up, and close on a hundred men from
the two brigades to do it.
* * * *
“Copabella”: Where do the spats of Syd-
ney go in the daytime? An amateur theatri-
cal company producing a society play be-
spoke spats for its dudes from a theatrical
costumier and was guaranteed supplies. Then
came an opportunity to have a scene from
the comedy pictured -in a daily paper, the
photograph to be taken in the forenoon. A
hitch came, however, when promoters sought
to hire spats for the men; not a set could
be obtained. They’re all out,” said the
hiring co. Pressed for details, it could only
repeat the temporary but irrevocable out-
ness of its stock of spats. Can it be that
the few spats seen on Australians at garden
parties, race meetings, weddings and the like
are hired by the wearers; or do owners
earn a div. from this seldom turned-over capi-
tal by leaving them with theatre costumiers
at nig ! t?
“Titoki”: The sergeant-major at Zeitoun
School of Instruction in 1915 was an Im-
perial Army n.c.o. of the old type—fierce
moustache, bull voice and Cliitral-ribbon
complete. He was intensely proud of his
own regiment and despised overseas troops.
He particularly disliked Australians. One
morning he heard some Light Horsemen talk-
ing in the ranks while he was forming up
the assembly parade. “No wonder they give
you blarsted Orstralians feathers to wear in
yer hats!” he bellowed. “I never seen such
a lot of cacklin’ ’ens!”
* * * *
“Avon”: A widower named Tohill who
lives in Dunedin (M.L.) lost four of five
sons who fought in the Great War. Two
fell on Gallipoli and one in France. Another,
the youngest, enlisted at 17, against his
father’s wish and under a nom de guerre,
and though he wrote once or twice he didn’t
inform his parent of his new label. It was
assumed, when he didn’t return, that Pat
had shared the fate of his three brothers,
but the other day he marched into his father s
house as large as life. It appears he was
shell-shocked in 1917, and after discharge
from a military hospital suffered periodical
lapses of memory. He wandered through
various countries, setting out on many occa-
sions to return to his native land, but in-
variably—until his latest voyage—losing the
thread of his intention before he could carry
it out. . He got to the Dominion at least
once that he can remember, but the mental
fog descended and he drifted away again.
* :> sit *
“Mudros”: He was a nice little English
General with a large wife and a clipped white
(moustache. As he approached we noticed
that his hands were encumbered with Christ-
mas parcels, so we switched our canes under
our left arms, and he realised that we in-
tended to salute him. Vainly he appealed
to his large wife for help; her nose con-
tinued to sniff the air disdainfully. Mutely
he sought compassion in our eyes, but they
were looking straight to the front. In des-
peration he tried to free his right hand by
juggling many parcels under his left arm.
Three yards from him our heads turned
half right on their swivels and our right
hands quivered at our cap-peaks in a per-
fect Guardie salute. The hand which rose
awkwardly to his hat had two small parcels
still adhering to it. “You make it very
hard, gentlemen,” he sighed plaintively.
* * * *
“Peter”: The nearest the old Sydney Tiv.
ever came to a Pavlova was the masked
dancer Grace Christie. It was suggested to
her that if she did more popular dancing
she would attract more people, so in the
middle of a reheasal she blacked the
toe of her slipper, and with a back
swing dotted herself in the left eye
with the right foot. Enthusiasm knew no
bounds when she repeated the kick, spotting
herself on the tip of the nose. But the re-
joicing turned to dismay when Miss Christie
said she intended to keep right on with the
regular dancing and would hold the freak
stuff for private exhibitions only. Later
I saw her make a Paris debut, and, although
she tore the house down, I didn’t hear any
monsieurs regretting the absence of the
back kick.
* * * *
“Operator”: At Spencer-street railway sta-
tion, Melbourne, 1000 Sydney tickets were
missed. Search was fruitless, and it was
decided that there had been a printer's
error in numbering. It wasn’t till 12
months elapsed that the department awoke
to the fact that there was something wrong
with the Sydney ticket sales. The affair of
the missing tickets was recalled, and a care-
fully baited hook soon found a fish. A
clerk had abstracted the tickets, kept quiet
till he thought the incident had been for-
gotten, and then commenced to dribble them
out to the public. But continued immunity
emboldened him and the dribble became a
flood. Soon afterwards he signed on in
another department for 18 months.
* * * *
“Privateer”: Probably old Sydney or
Hobart Town could have shown it points, but
Port Said before the Great War was the
most cosmopolitan place I have seen as far
as money is concerned. In those days you
paid fourpence (or its equivalent) to the
boatmen to get ashore, if your ship was in
the stream, which it usually was. I got
ashore one day and handed in an English
half-crown. The man at the window handed
me back without. any sort of hesitation a
German 50-pfennig, a French half-franc, a
Belgian 25-centimes, two Swiss centimes and
some Italian coppers. It took me some
minutes to count it, and then I wanted to
know what lie expected me to do with the
conglomeration. He explained in his best
pidgin-English that it was all perfectly good
money. To satisfy myself I called at the
F’rench post office, tendering the German half-
mark, which I considered the least likely. I
got a 10-cent stamp right enough, and the
change in Turkish piastres. That made me
bold enough to try a Russian rouble that
I had failed to cash in any other port, and
it worked.
I WONDER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Another year upon the heap
The locust steadily devours;
Another mile towards the sleep
That rounds this little life of ours.
And those who o’er the Yule-tree's bough
Once hung with me upon the stair
A world away—where are they now?
I wonder where.
Another mark upon the way
That saint and sinner both must tread;
And yet another Christmas Day,
Full charged with memories, ahead.
To where you heard the church bells chime
First, fast and far your thoughts will fly
And linger long at Christmastime—
I wonder why. -
They live, not bent or bowed or grey,
The band that once you moved among;
They live as in the far-away
When they and you alike were young.
And when their thoughts, too, backward go
O’er time and distance, gulf and cliff,
I wonder if they see you so—
I wonder if!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Elsie Ghee”: Genteel outbackers are
rather particular that right values be at-
tached to words. “Woman” is ever a vulgar
word, “lady” being de riguedr. “Madam” is
regarded with suspicion, if not horror.
Thus it was that a chill which almost
blighted the pumpkins fell on our inaugural
meeting of a Country Women’s Association
branch when Mrs. Snobs addressed the Chair,
occupied by the local Lady Bountiful, as
“Madam President.” “I’ll thank you, Mrs.
Snobs,” said the offended dignitary, “not
to call me madam; I’m no more a madam
than yourself!” It nearly caused a post-
ponement of the inauguration.
Hi * * *
“Kopai”: On the occasion of opening an
institution in a Vic. town, it was decided to
pay a pretty compliment to the leading local
songstress, and at the same time give an
emotional touch to the inauguration by the
communal-singing of one of the less-known
national anthems, which is also a hymn, sel-
dom sung on account of its difficulties of
phrasing. Madame Topp-Cee was to lead,
and the “vast audience” to pick up after
her and swell the mighty diapason, etc.
There was, however, in the town a municipal
councillor, owner of the voice that broke
with envy the bull of Bashan’s heart—of
course with a voice like that he would sing.
Conspirators tipped off the councillor that
the chosen hymn had been changed to “All
NOT HER FAULT.
ADOLPHUS: “Dulcie’s boy is awfly well off.”
DOROTHEA: “Yes? I wonder if he’ll discover it before it’s too late.”
People that on Earth.” As soon, therefore, as
Madame boomed most gloriously. the opening
bar of the Belgian hymn, Cr. Basso came
in, all eight cylinders roaring, with the Old
Hundredth —and the audience took it up!
Madame (at whose side I stood) fought hard
for Belgium for a while, but had to give in.
* * * *
“Mells”: We were yarning round the
camp-fire. There was a Serb, or Jugo-Slav,
in the party, and he had been telling, us
about those bitter days in the Great War
when the Austrians, getting their second
wind, had driven the Serb army and a large
section of the population, including the
Government and Parliament, clean out of
their own country. Nevertheless, it seemed,
the administrative machine hadn’t ceased to
function altogether; the Serbs established a
provisional capital in Corfu, an island off
the coast protected by the warships of the
Allies, until the weather should break. “But
you couldn’t have the capital of a country
outside the country, could you?” asked old
Dan perplexedly. Yugovitch shrugged his
shoulders as if to intimate that his coun-
trymen had no choice, and Slippery Sam,
an admitted authority on turf matters, put
in his contribution to the discussion. “Aw,”
he said, “them sort of things has got to
happen sometimes; wasn’t there a year when
they had to run the Adelaide Cup in Mel-
bourne?”
* * * *
“Pawang”: Several instances of mass
fainting have occurred lately in widely
separated localities. During the Armistice
Day ceremonies in Melbourne, although the
weather was far from trying, a Grammar
School boy flopped on to the asphalt and
within a few minutes 16 of his fellows fol-
lowed his example. There was a similar case
in Adelaide and the question has been asked
whether the Australian youth is becom-
ing weaker in fibre; sundry pundits ad-
vance the theory that the movies, the exami-
nation system and the hot pace of modern life
are responsible for deterioration. Nobody
would accuse the Malay of having a very
tender nervous system, yet I have seen a crowd
of Indonesians at a football match bowling
over one after the other like ninepins. Aus-
tralian adults are as prone to this form of
automatic imitation as the youngsters. At
one of the Test matches in Melbourne last
year a woman fainted and the lifting of her
unconscious form on to the track was the
signal for dozens of her sisters to follow her
example. Before the ambulance orderlies
had finished fully 40 females were propped
against the fence —incidentally in far better
positions to view the batting of the English-
men than before they had their seizures.
* * * *
“D.A.”: If the Commonwealth’s new
volunteer system contemplates the resuscita-
tion of the kilt for Scottish regiments (B.
4/12/’29) the idea should be carried to its
logical conclusion. There’s a fine mob of
I)ago Australians in North Queensland, and
these should be endued with the costume of
the Bersaglieri, even if every rooster in the
country loses his tail. And why shouldn't
Irish volunteers, assuming that they materi-
alise in sufficient numbers, be permitted to
advertise their origin by the large piece of
saffron cloth which was the national cos-
tume as late as the days of Edmund Spenser.
It was so donned as to form both kilt and
plaid, covering the whole body, as was in-
deed the case with the original Highland
get-up. I have never heard of an Irish regi-
ment in the national filibeg, though years
ago an enthusiastic Irish M.P. used occasion-
ally to appear in the House of Commons
in one.
* * * *
“Oxon” : It is, perhaps, a mere side-issue to
this ablutions controversy, but the fact that
Charles Kingsley or any other nineteenth-
century Englishman lived in a house without
a regular bathroom is no ground for suggest-
ing that he didn’t bathe daily. In my time
at Oxford, 40 years ago, there was no such
thing as a bathroom in the college where
I lived and moved, and I question if there
was in any other. But every man’s bedroom
served the purpose as far as the flat “tub”
of those days and plenty of water could
effect it. The “shower,” of course, was out
of the question, but that refinement, how-
ever stimulating, isn’t indispensable to
cleanliness.
“P.X.”: Even now it isn’t impossible to
find quite comfortable English inns without
bathrooms. At one in Cumberland the maid
drags in your bath-tub with two vessels of
water as regularly as in Australia she brings
in your cup of tea. But that wasn’t what
I wanted to mention about that pub—it was
the bootjack that stood beside every fire-
place to help you lift off your Wellingtons or
half-Wellingtons!
* * * *
“Kir”: They have got beyond merely peel-
ing patrons’ peanuts in the theatres. Sydney
Arcadia undertakes to present every 50th
patron with a Christmas cake.
POSITIVELY NO FREEDOM FOR A WOMAN!
“Does your husband ask you how you spent this and why you spent that and so on?”
“My dear! He’s that nosey he even asks me how I’ve spent my evenings.”
“Cuvee” : The average man, wrecked and
east up, would think he was in Wonderland
if the shore on which he emerged was swim-
ming in champagne. This was the case, how-
ever, when the survivors of the Gartlipool
crawled up the rocks on Cape Verde Islands
recently. A Spanish ship laden with wine
had grounded a few days before, and the
natives were having a glorious time on her
looted cargo of champagne. It recalls a
wreck of a Scottish sailing-ship, laden mostly
with whisky, at Southport, some 50 miles
south of Brisbane, in the ’nineties. The
whisky came rolling ashore in cases and
casks for days, and the atmosphere of the
country side, then inhabited by people who
lived mostly by stealing each other’s cattle,
carried the familiar peat-smoke savor for
months. For years after, whisky deposits
were occasionally unearthed by unsuspecting
rustics.
* * * *
“Oakabella” : E. J. Brady’s “Ballad of the
Captain-General” (B. 11/12/’29) deals with
the hanging of Jerome Cornelis by Pelsart
on Seal Island, one of the Abrolhos group,
in October, 1629. Cornelis wasn’t the only
one to pay the penalty for the massacre of
over 100 largely-defenceless people, but there
were at least two of his associates who were
given a chance for their lives, although per-
haps it wasn’t much of a chance. They were
marooned on the mainland near where
Geraldton stands to-day—“the first white in-
habitants of the continent so far as is known,”
writes J. S. Battye in his “History of West
Australia” —and Pelsart went on his way
to Batavia. When he got back to Holland
and told his story the authorities were evi-
dently inclined to be merciful to the two
marooned persons, for the captain of the
next Dutch ship that was dispatched to our
west coast was instructed to “grant a pas-
sage home to the two criminals set ashore
by Pelsart”! It isn’t recorded whether he
ever looked for them.
Hs ❖ H* *
“Tarwoona” : A pigeon figured in one of
the Great War’s great laughs. The Army
Staff was sitting on tenterhooks, longing
for some news of the attacking lines, which
had disappeared into “the fog of battle”
(phrase beloved of army lecturers). Schedule
time for reaching the final objective came
and passed and still no news. Slowly the
hands of the clock moved round. The ner-
vous tension was, becoming unbearable. At
last there was a cry from an officer at the
window. A pigeon had landed in the loft.
A junior was sent flying to retrieve its mes-
sage. Back he came panting and the General
himself snatched the piece of tissue paper.
One glance and he was raving and cursing
round the room. An officer grabbed the fate-
ful message and read : “I’m tired of carrying
this blasted bird around.”
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: The London film-censor’s pro-
hibition of a “parti-colored osculation” be-
tween John Longden, the English star, and
Anna Wong, the Chinese heroine of a recent
celluloid drama, reminds me. In Banyu-
wangi, Java, I once watched a native junket-
ing at which four powdered, bedizened and
reputationless women stood in the centre of
an enthusiastic crowd backed by an orches-
tra and fronted by a large brass bowl. They
began to dance more or less seductively,
using all the wealth of gesture and abandon-
ment of action for which the local dance is
remarkable. An m.c. gyrated before them,
simulating a consuming passion. Then one
of the onlookers rushed into the circle,
grasped the m.c. by the neck and squeezed
his face and the face of each woman in turn
together, making them exchange a lingering
salute while the crowd shiveringly applauded.
Then he followed suit himself and flinging a
coin into the bowl danced himself off, to be
succeeded by another aspirant. The ceremony
was obviously a parody of the European
habit of kissing, regarded by the natives as
thoroughly indecent. Those who had the
courage to perform the fearsome operation
in public were regarded as the lads of the
village for months afterwards.
* * * *
“G. City”: The history of shoplifting in
Sydney runs back more than 80 years. The
S. M. Herald of Jan 16, 1845, tells of two
women who had been caught red-handed
with £5 worth of black silk handkerchiefs.
Their excuse was that they were taking them
to match with some they already possessed,
but an incredulous beak sent the ladies up.
* * * *
“Kune” : An amazing instance of stamina
is attached to the escapade of a 17-year-old
Dunedin (M.L.) girl. Fear-stricken at the
sight of a policeman who called at her home
in connection with a minor offence in which
it was suspected she was involved, the girl
took to her heels. For days parents and
police searched and inquired unavailingly.
Four days after her disappearance two lads,
roaming along some desolate sandhills, heard
a frail voice crying out for water. Hatless
and barelegged, and clad only in thin apparel,
the fugitive had made her retreat under a
lupin bush, where, for four days and nights,
in the most treacherous weather and with-
out nourishment or drink, she remained like
a trembling hare. One stick of chew'ing-
gum was all she had to stave off hunger
and thirst. Taken to hospital, four months
of medical skill restored her to normal
health —minus two toes, which had been frost-
bitten.
* * # *
“Narara”: I know a family in which war
names are hereditary. The grandfather,
who died recently, was born during the
Crimean War, and was saddled with Alma
for his second baptismal name. His young-
est son came to light during the Boer War,
and was sub-titled Mafeking. His son wears
the name Amiens, in memory of an uncle
who was killed there on the day his nephew
was born.
* * * *
“Mr. Cato”: It was 'at Steenwerck I was
looking in a shop window, when a Digger
came out of the door and appealed to a
passing lance-jack for assistance. The Dig-
ger, it seemed, had bought a tobacco-pouch
priced at six francs, and had only been
given two as change from a 10-fi’anc note.
He had protested vigorously, but, not know-
ing any French, had been unable to get
satisfaction. “You show me the Frog that
gave you the short change, and I’ll have a
talk with him,” said the n.c.o. importantly.
Inside the store the one-striper approached
the shopman indicated by his comrade, and
began : “Parley voo Fransey ?” “Oui, Mon-
sieur,” replied the smiling Frenchman. The
lance-jack looked severe. “Mong Jew!” he
burst out. “Why the blazes don’t yer give
this bloke his right change!”
* * # *
“H 20”: An addition was made -by a
Christchurch (M.L.) youngster the other
day to the nine million known methods
whereby a boy can get into mischief. This
lad, evidently a diligent student of chemistry,
got some chlorate of potash throat-lozenges,
sprinkled them with icing sugar, and
attempted to ram the lot through a piece
of gas-pipe. After a few taps the mixture
exploded, and the improvised bomb provided
the children’s ward of the nearest hospital
with an inmate. A Uni. prof, who com-
mented on the case gave the maker of the
lozenges a good ad.: “They must have been
practically pure chlorate to go off like that,”
he said,. r ,, Ti v
CONTRASTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(In a Norwegian Fiord.)
With ever-changing rainbows for its frame
The waterfall alternate laughs and sings ;
Its music and its theme remain the same;
A song of challenge borne on star-bright
wings
And mocking all the menace of the years
With everlasting youth, eternal joy.
•••* • * •
Somewhere within the ship to maudlin Tears
A gramophone grinds out its “Sonny
Boy.”
The mountain towers majestic, pure and
free;
The blue fiord his full-length image holds;
He turns the torrent tumbling to the sea
And grips the blue-green glacier in his
folds;
He masks within a cloud of silver bands
The glory of his gleaming, snowy crown.
A tourist masks his head within his hands
And slowly tracks a crossword puzzle
down.
Mountain and valley, fiord, foaming stream,
White, radiant, sun-kissed height and lucid
deep,
Bright, soaring birds and pearly skies that
seem
To bend, a tryst with sister sea to keep!
Nature so prodigal of charm has been,
To words superlative our speech would
soar.
A sweet voice pipes: “Oh, isn’t it pretty,
Jean!”
Ah, me! She views a trinket in a store.
S.A.
BILL O'C.


BO°
Ov
AS
EVt.
*
£
UA V
ntSS
%*A^ 5
it
EVt
NN^:
■^ea^'®
•niptiet
pEO
:»"
ca**
tot
ltlC
Gl^ 8
£2|2/
SfS^SJS
UPP eT
pj]RS •
H la^
eve.
lIT.W
rrflE
•551#“
%WlA=
übak
Late
fell*'
T)in neT
eift es
cin§
SOV
Dan
nd
\us^' e
W 1361
Gifts
i«c
p()Ol y
The National Mutual Life Association
of Australasia Limited.
Established 1869.
EXTRACTS FROM SIXTIETH ANNUAL REPORT.
20,078 New Policies assuring
New Annual Premiums
Income for Year
Payments to Policy-holders . .
Added to Assurance Fund . . . .
Assurance Fund at 30/9/’29
EVERY YEAR A BONUS YEAR.
Bonus Certificates for the year ended 30th September, 1929, will be issued
on March 1, 1930.
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD:
HON. SIR THOMAS HUGHES, M.L.C.; W. D. STEWART, ESQ.,; SIR JOHN VICARS.
OSWALD ST. CLAIR, Manager.
Offices: 350 George Street, Sydney.
£9,868,349
£379,097
£4,941,615
£2,093,781
£2,400,264
. £31,547,594
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's (com. Saturday) “The Desert Song”
Criterjon “Lombardi, Ltd!”
TATH Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS B’OR COMING WEEK
" OYAI 1 1 “Hold Everything”
New Comedy “Murder on the Second Floor”
£ IVOL / Vaudeville
Hoyt s Movies and Talkies
bTATB Movies and Talkies
«
Introducing Professor Mark Nortlicote
who, at fabulous expense, ladies and gentle-
men, has brought his illustrious troupe of
trained fleas to the Coogee Pier. Nortlicote
is also Ibex, the shadowgrapliist, one of the
best bits in magician Nicola’s show. Maske-
lyne and Devant used to tell him in London
that, if he’d tell them how it was done,
they’d tell him. His illusion “Galatea” was
shown to Queen Alexandra, who went behind
to see how they turned a beautiful girl
into a bunch of roses, and then confessed
to the bluest blood in England that she was
none the wiser. At the same palace party
the professor endeavored to get a Royal
blessing for his fleas, but her Majesty re-
plied, _ in effect, that she had the children
to think of. It should be brought to the
notice of all Government Tourist Bureaus
that the only difficulty Nortlicote has with
his flea circus is in getting artists.
* * v
A Sydney entertainment of the week
that wasn’t patronised as it might have been
was the Hugh McOrac lecture at the Savoy.
For one reason at least it was a Sundry
Shows performance. Hugh has been an actor
in his varied day. If this Showman’s memory
is sound, he was with Granville Barker;
he stalked the boards for a time in New
York, and has had other stage experience.
You see the result in his lecturing. He
commits dramatic gestures; walks about,
flings an arm to the wings; even occasion-
ally uses his voice to win effects.
To present writer MeC’rae looked a dinner-
jacketed six foot or so of loneliness hovering
about a reading pedestal. Perhaps the
impression came from the spirit of the lec-
ture as much as from the sepulchral cur-
taining and lighting of the stage. He moved
in his curtained cavern speaking about his
father, George Gordon McCrae, and his
father’s friends; and he seemed to be a sur-
vival from a more romantic day. In lecturing
he does not make his points as well as they
could be made. Pretty well all sentences
had twist and point to them, but many
dropped away unnoticed. The priest who
JUNE MILLS, who helps the jun along in “Show Boat” at
Sydney Majesty’s.
fell overboard in Hobson’s Bay and began
to swim philosophically towards Williams-
rown because he knew there was a com-
fortable hotel there; the Englishman who,
before moving to Australia, called for his
favorite horse, gave him a lump of sugar,
and then shot him dead; his father sowing
the coffee-bean that came up a sugar plum
—ding-dong stuff all of it. Yet about it
all there was something that did not make
for great success as a lecture. The spirit
of the poet invested it. It held none of the
sounding boom of rhetoric. It sparkled with
wit, but talking it to a crowd was like
paving a road with diamonds.
An interesting contrast crops up. A
little time ago this Showman heard another
Australian writer, Steele Rudd, from a
public platform. Steele Rudd spoke the
chapter of Dave’s courting. If anything, he
made it sound even better than it reads.
It was uproar. A, crowd as large as that
which listened to the poet and practically
identical with it in personnel shouted its
laughter. In years of the departed Tiv. and
other vaudeville houses this Showman never
saw a more effective variety turn. With
a little of the right sort of publicity, Steele
Rudd could hawk that reading through the
country and start a new Australian industry
-—the making of “House-Full” signs. The
difference is that between w T it and humor.
Present writer would walk miles to hear
Steele Rudd on a platform (it’s a pity he
doesn’t take to the Domain and enliven what
is the dullest show on the face of lan
unoffending earth!). It would be worth
walking miles to sit alongside McCrae at a
dinner table. -
* * *
Chiefly for the presence of the admirably-
done talkie version of Frederick Lonsdale’s'
play “The Last, of Mrs. Cheyney,” Sydney
Regent’s bill of last week was as good as
anything this Showman had seen in a movie
house for months. There was none of the
customary sentimentality in Norma Shearer’s
presentation of Mrs. Cheyney, and the pic-
ture altogether compared uncommonly well
with the play. Something as yet even rarer
—good Australian stuff in the “shorts”—
made strong support. The Regent latterly
has been going in for brief runs, which
is the only thing that can account for such
a fine programme being discarded after but
a week’s showing. The principal change on
Saturday was not to talkie but to Amy
Castles singing from the stage in the flesh,
charming as ever. The pictures are “Plea-
sure Crazed” and “High Voltage,” a brace
of talkies.
Though it is in its last days “The Cock-
eyed World” seems to have established Syd-
ney Royal as a talkie house. In this Show-
man’s opinion it isn’t a very wonderful pro-
duction, but there is evidently something in
its vulgarities that holds the crowd. “Four
Devils” and “Modem Love” make the bill
at the Empire; “Under the Greenwood
Tree” and “The Lady Lies” are at the State;
that fine offering “The Four Feathers” is the
main item at the Capitol, and at the St.
James and Prince Edward “Show Boat” and
“Why Bring That
Up?” are still go-
ing strong. Hay-
market has “Stark
Mad.”
* * *
For the “Lom-
bardi, Ltd.,” pre-
sentation at Syd-
ney Cri. the Firm
paid Leo Carillo
the compliment of
a first-class com-
pany. In addition
to bringing along a
couple of very good
ones himself, he
returned the com-
pliment with first-
class acting. The
whole season, now
coming to an end,
has been a striking
example of sus-
tained earnestness.
But as important
a contribution to
the success as any
other has been
Carrillo’s flair for
publicity. The
Herald, whi c h
doesn’t care how
much space it gives
to front rank Thes-
pians, has featured
Carrillo almost
every other day in
some citizen rOle
or other, and some
of the others that
don’t even trouble
about rank have
gone close to bring-
ing out special edi-
tions about him.
So far he has
said, that Sydney
audiences laugh
better than New
York audiences, that Australians are not
as patriotic as they ought to be about
their beautiful country, anld that he is
returning at the first opportunity. It isn’t
exactly original, but the Califorian at least
makes it sound as if he meant it. True,
if not strange, that the visiting theatrics
who haven’t liked Australia as well as they
might have done have invariably not been
liked as they might have been.
The future of Melbourne Tivoli is lying
heavily on the mind of the Firm just now.
The old home of Will Whitburn, Irving
Sayles, Austin Rudd and many another
vaudeville celebrity has been heavily hit by
the financial slump and the competition of
the talkies. Nothing introduced of late has
done the J.C.W. treasury much good.
The Kentucky Singers filled the house
for a week or so, and the eminent
activity of Lotinga in chasing himself about
in various hilari-
ous disguises was
a novelty for a
space, but with all
his perspiration he
could not hold
back the advancing
emptiness. The
Firm, which owns
the property,
would probably be
glad to dispose of
a select city site;
but the .somewhat
distinguished Abra-
hams brethren hold
a ground lease
which has still sev-
eral years to run.
* * *
Melbourne Bijou,
where Stiffy and
Mo have magged it
in their day, where
others have lost
their trousers and
sundry their repu-
tations, proceeds
forthwith to drop
variety and go in
for repertory
dr a m,a of ail
things. Gregan
McMahon transfers
thence from the
Palace on Boxing
Night, opening
with a short re-
vival of “Bird in
Hand.”
And yet the
change, i.s not so
startling as it
sounds, for. the
Bijou started as
the Victoria Aca-
demy of Music,
and Mrs. G. B. W.
Lewis had juvenile
comic opera there
in the early ’eighties. The Montague-
Turner opera company, the Majeronis and
the Brough-Boucicault co. began their first
seasons there. It has had turns of melo-
drama and of Shakspeare. More than likely
Shakspook will be seen there again, for Allan
Wilkie is expected to turn up there after
his couple of months’ season in Tasmania.
The theatre, like most others, has been burnt
down and rebuilt.
* * *
The first of the Fritz Hart Melbourne
Symphony open-air orchestral concerts in
the Botanical Gardens was a mighty success.
It held around the lakeside a crowd of
15,000, which even a hot northerly that ran
the temperature to over 92 degrees couldn’t
chase away. Even those who had doubts
about the numbers being heard had to be
pleased with the result. Amplifiers were so
successful in carrying the music that whether
one lolled upon the grass of the hill’s slope
or wandered further off the balance was
good. Offerings included the “London Sym-
phony” of Haydn, a selection from “Loheu-
grin,” Mendelssohn”s “Buy Blass” overture,
some Percy Grainger and Holst. The show
was free—a gift of Sidney Myer and the
guarantors of the recent symphony concerts
at the town Hall.
* # *
The one matter for regret after the con-
cert was the fact that various band organ-
isations had the Gardens booked so far
ahead that the Symphonies would not be
heard there again for months. However, the
Tramways Band has graciously given up
Sunday (22nd) so that we may hear the
orchestra again in the open before Christ-
mas.
# * #
Frank Neil steps into the pantomime gap
in Melbourne with an “up-to-date” version of
Mother Goose. “Clowns in Clover” will be
withdrawn on Christmas Eve, and on Boxing
Day the company, with some bright additions,
will appear in the panto.
The Christmas season is bringing forth its
usual crop of performances of “The Mes-
siah” by musical societies and church
choirs. The Handel oratorio will have only
one airing by the Melbourne' Philharmonics —
on Christmas night at the Town Hall.
In Sydney there, will be no Christmas
Night performance, responsible unions having
lately induced the State Government to ban
all Sunday shows, including religious, at
which a charge is made. Red tape interprets
this to include Christmas night, though
nothing of the sort was intended. However,
what ought to be a fine presentation of the
Handel piece will be given on Saturday by
the Welsh Choral Society, with E. H. Jones
in charge and hundreds in support.
* * *
Adelaide Royal has been packed for a
week by a League of Nations pageant, a long
succession of scenes of war, diplomacy and
peace. Nora Collisson did the book and
Kenneth Duffield provided the “producing,”
some of the music, and the general respon-
sibility. with Dr. Nott coaching the 600
RUBY MAY, in Melbourne Repertory production of Thackeray’s
“The Rose and the Ring.”
players in positions, and Esmond George
in dialogue. Mrs. (Judge) Napier had the
heavy job of seeing to costumes, and Homer
conducted the music. From cathedral to
cabaret, from the trenches to a • domestic
breakfast-table, the show runs briskly on
for well over three hours. Manager Kendall,
of the Royal, gave friendly advice, and the
Williamson co. a lot of scenery; but other-
wise the big affair is a triumph of ama-
teurism.
# * *
Nellie Bramley borders on the end of her
remarkable season at Brisbane Royal. For
about a year and a half she has put on a
new play every week and played lead in it.
Most of the items have been of the “enter-
taining” variety only, hut they have been
well done, and through a mixture of weather
it has been almost always a house-full show.
The season closes with “Paddy the Next Best
Thing,” which the ads. say has been specially
requested.
Brisbane is to have a look at the war play
“Journey’s End” before it goes to Sydney,
where it opens at the Criterion on Jan. 4.
¥ ¥ *
Alfred Frith, w r ho crashed with the Firm
during the “Hold Everything” showing at
Sydney Majesty’s, definitely announces a
return. He begins in the comedy “Money
from Home” at the Opera House on Satur-
day night, chiefly supported by Agatha Kent-
ish, a good-looking Londoner.
“Show Boat” drifts down the river of
froth and fancy from Majesty’s boards after
to-morrow (Thursday) night. Then “The
Desert Song” for a fortnight, with “New
Moon” on the horizon.
Marlow promises “Babes in the Wood”
panto, for afternoons only at the Opera
House, commencing on Boxing Day, and the
State threatens the panto “Sinbad the
Sailor” supporting a talkie from Saturday.
The movie panto, apparently hasn’t been
devised yet, but a good idea of what it maj
be like could have been had from the First
National screening on Sunday night at the
St. James. The picture was a talkie in full
color, and a company applying the method
with the youngster’s taste for the spectacular
in mind should make an entertainment likely
to give the average stage panto.’s box-office
a sick and hollow feeling.
“Hold Everything” ceases at Melbourne
Royal on Saturday night, and the house
will then be filled with the noise of rehearsal
until “Turned IJp” has its Australian pre-
miere on Boxing Night. Josie Melville will
add to the company.


J
w/
Browder
1
4711
Grea
Cold
ream
wrd.Miilfe
CoCi
Joryour complexion
"4711" Vanishing Cream, the day cream par excellence,
and the ideal base for “4711" Face Powder. Before
bed-time cleanse your pores and stimulate their
action by a thorough massage with
"4711" Cold Cream.
Ever welcome offerings at the shrine of
Beauty y charm and fragrance to make
loveliness doubly adorable... Surely even
Ophir could not offer treasures more
precious than these, more welcome than
“4711” Eau de Cologne and the umcfue
toiletries to which its haunting fragrance
gives distinction and repute.
"4711" Eau de Cologne * * 4711 " Frozoclone * ■ 4711 " Liquid
Shampoo * “4711" Talcum Powder * "4711" Eau de Co-
logne Cream Soap, in boxes of 3 tablets * 4711
Eau de Cologne Bath Soap, in boxes of 3 and 6 tablets
* "4711" Bath Powder *
m
T- '
mi
332
laude co log
mm
mm.
laujrcoLOfiMr
m
liquid U
shampoo a
Cgu d r aus
e Cologne i Parfumenc fJ br
- GI °CKENGASSE N-4711
II not
congeal
ajL’ s &
quailed
[X..
t oimnQi
the hajr
o«;
UJ
CD
''xtiW'JM
?m^
Co*-4f,
FP
»•< i
§Sln
) Solid
£aude
, Cologne
Cotogrxe
GCtlt
cLe
in
(rorvder
&
atn
m
cov‘°
PQWD
i^SCRI^
°Vo
Sfft
STC
Q Klw
wn
'Rhi
All delightful items recognized
by the registered “4:71V
on the Blue and
%za
o
Genuine
Eau tie
ologne


R°NEL 0 diary
FOR 1930
Now Ready,
Has
a Page
for
Every Day
Cloth
Bound, Gold
Lettered.
Size, 91 x 6|-
IDEAL
XMAS
GIFT
Price 107-
post, 1/- extra.
n I?
nig
RONEO CO. Ltd., 21 Hunter St., Sydney.
Built for Super Service in Every Power Transmission Field
MANGROVITE WATERPROOF LEATHER
OR RAWHIDE BELTING
i m
The quality of “Mangrovite” Belting is such that it renders
super service under all conditions. Carefully selected Aus-
tralian Ox Hides are treated by an exclusive process of tanning
and the belt is cemented throughout with
waterproof cement. This factor increases
efficiency by imparting smoother running,
greater grip and lasting durability. “Man-
grovite” is the least expensive and most
highly efficient power-belting in existence.
Send for samples, free to any address.
MANGROVITE BELTING, LTD.
Charles Ludowici, Managing Director,
49 YORK STREET (WYNYARD SQUARE), SYDNEY.
w
To the Man Who Is
Climbing ...
And Doesn't Want to Fall.
More than a mere training course, the
Alexander Hamilton Institute has an-
other, and perhaps an even more im-
portant, function. It helps men to
plan wisely, and it is an insurance
against those unforeseen, but unavoid-
able, crises which wreck so many
careers midway.
Send for the book —“Forging Ahead
in Business”—now! It does not
obligate you in any way, but it does-
give you an insight into the service
that is offered.
Alexander Hamilton Institute
Courses for Australasia controlled by
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON.
SYDNEY : 38 Barrack House, 16 Barrack Street.
MELBOURNE: 38 Bank House, Bank Place:
P 4 J 410-12 Collins Street.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Queensland Insurance Cos., Ltd.
Added to Re-
I’rofits. Dividends. Reserves. serves.
Sept., £ £ £ £
1919.. 127,596 121 p.e. = 43,750 83,840 279,.144
Transferred to capital, £ 150,000. . 129,544
1920.. 131,021 121 p.e. = 62,500 09,121 198,665
Transferred from contingency
reserve, £30,000 . . . . 228,665
1921.. 100,677 121 p.c. = 62,500 44,177 272,842
1922.. 97,772 121 „ „ 62,500 35,272 308,114
1923.. 100,552 121 „ ~ 02,500 38,052 340,106
1924.. 102,260 12. „ „ 62,500 39,766 385,932
1925.. 104,560 12. „ ~ 62,500 42,000 427,992
1920.. 144,529 12. „ „ 62,500 82,029 510,021
1927.. 140,520 12. „ ~ 62,500 78,026 588,047
1928.. 125,809 121 „ „ 62,500 63,369 651,416
1929.. 102,508 121 „ „ 62,500 40,008 691,424
This prosperous fire and marine office was
founded by the far-sighted James Burns 43
years ago. It lias since developed world-
wide connections, controlled from Sydney,
and is blessed with a vigorous and discern-
ing management. But it has not been able
to wholly escape the unfavorable under-
writing experience of recent years, and pro-
fits have stepped down at each of the last,
three balances. For the 12 months to Sept.
30 lost the recession was £23,361, due to a
contraction of £50,383 in net premiums and
a growth of £11,710 in exes.; the two move-
ments being partly offset by a shrinkage of
£37,869 in claims. *
Still, the position remains very attractive.
The £102,508 netted for the year was 20.5
p.c. on paid capital compared with 25.1, 28.1,
28.9, 20.9 and 20.4 p.c. back to 1924. Also
a visible accumulation £191,424 in excess of
the capital has been built up, and the return
from investments (£75,584) was actually
£13,084 more than the 12-J p.c. dividend
called for—was sufficient indeed to pay the
same rate on another £104,672 of capital.
With a display like that in the window, with
assets modestly valued, and with something
tucked away for contingencies (in the pub-
lished accounts the latter is locked up with
sundry creditors, reinsurances and claims —
£479,079, up £12,725 during the year) it is
not surprising that the market has long
since become eager in its anticipation of
benefits. The last lot of gift scrip, one for
two, was scattered in 1919, the year which
marked the close of easily the richest de-
cade in the co.’s history. No less than
£425,000 of the round half-million now on
the share register represents bonus additions
during that period. Over the same period
aggregate net premiums were almost double
those of the preceding 24 years, while total
net profits increased nearly fourfold.
One factor which helped tremendously in
that remarkable development was the fat
returns won from a big volume of marine
risks during the war. Since then, however,
the bottom has tumbled out of shipping-
values, competition has sharpened, rates have
been cut and the London marine market
has proved a trap for many underwriters,
and an unsatisfactory one for all. Last year
the co. severely restricted its activities there,
and the reduction in net premiums was
largely due to that. Other lines have been
developed, but with no better than fluctuat-
ing results.
Here is a comparison of the co.’s under-
writing performances over a long period:—
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895.. £40,681 £28,703 £13,058 70.7 p.c. 32.1 p.c.
1900.. 75,310 44,053 20,529 58.5 „ 27.2 „
1905.. 74,118 43,129 26,020 58.2 „ 35.1 „
1910.. 124,213 60,286 47,911 48.5 „ 38.5 „
1915.. 240,849 118,126 81,098 49.0 „ 33.6 „
1920.. 440,021 169.775 180,277 38.6 „ 40.9 „
1923.. 462,607 219,161 193,665 47.4 „ 41.8 „
1924.. 609,200 269,970 191,929 53.0 „ 37.7
1925.. 556,191 289,791 219,851 52.1 „ 39.5 „
1926.. 727,923 403,605 239,867 55.4 ~ 32.9 „
1927.. 821,768 472,046 276,963 57.5 „ 33.7 „
1928.. 882,801 532,457 299.196 60.3 „ 33.9 „
1929.. 832,418 494,588 310,906 59.4 „ 37.3 „
For the five years to the close of accounts in
1924 underwriting profits aggregated
£298,543; they' totalled only £281,226 for
the quinquennium to Sept. 30 last, notwith-
standing that an extra £1,543,868 of net
premiums had been harvested during the
latter period. Claims were the trouble: they
took £1,125,931 of the extra premiums, while
the growth in exes, was only £426,254. Last
year’s surplus (£26,924) fell away £24,224,
being only 3.3 p.c. of the net premiums as
against 5.8 p.c. in the previous year; but
because of the increase in business the 5.8
p.c. was worth £1367 more than 10.8 p.c.
was in 1923.
Lately heavy fire losses in Maoriland and
Australia have caused much concern, and
accident business has been disappointing
owing mainly to the rapid growth of motor-
car claims. Moreover, it is very doubtful
whether any worth-while early relief can be
looked for. A run of bad years with Ameri-
can fire risks and the unsettled conditions in
China have also helped to reduce the margin
of underwriting surplus. Another recent de-
velopment is the increasing activities of
local agents for some of the group of under-
writers associated with Lloyd’s. These
groups are not subject to the same overhead
as good Australian offices, and are therefore
able in some instances to undercut the tariff
of the associated cos. here.
Policy-holders in the Queensland can sleep
soundly: they not only are very well pro-
tected, but can get prompt assurance on the
point if ever a doubt should assail them.
The £400,000 set aside for unexpired risks
at the close of last accounts was over
£07,000 more than is usually considered
adequate. Also the £1,733,004 of assets are
a solid lot, and over 90 p.c. of them are in
handy form, as this next comparison shows:
, 1928 x , 1929 v
p.c. p.c.
Government securities.. £762,751 45.4 £762,901 44.0
Municipal securities .. 107,004 6.4 107,004 6.2
Deposits, cash, • sundry
debtors, etc. . . 677,024 40.3 703,416 40.6
Premises . . . . 133,491 7.9 159,683 9.2
The growth of £20,192 in the premises item
last year was on account of the co.’s new
Perth office, which has not yet had a chance
to contribute to the pool; hence the small
increase of £S63 in interest and rents. There
was no movement worth mentioning in the
book value of public securities, a strengthen-
ing of the cash holding being mainly respon-
sible for the spring in the other item.
The scrip, of course, ranks high amongst
the investment securities in the market. The
price of the pound shares advanced briskly
from 40s. two years ago to 60s. 6d. in Nov.,
1925; then it firmed around 635. od., but
during the recent general depression on the
Stock Exchange eased to 58s. At that figure
the immediate return is only 4.3 p.c. on a
121 p.c. div. basis. Thus the investor who
looks for a yield of 61 p.c. from this scrip
counts on a one-for-two gift issue and the
maintenance of a 121 p.c. div., which would
then call for £93,750, and net earnings have
never fallen short of that figure since 1917.
The visible backing amounts to 475. 6d. per
share in net tangibles.
Robert Reid and Cos., Ltd.
, Dividends— :
r —Prefs. —>,
Profits. 7 p.c. 8 p.c. Ordinary. Reserves.
July, £ £ £ £ £
1920.. 309,562 13,672 lO p.c.= 47,889 f „ n „ „
Reserves capitalised, £161,669 f
Inner reserves disclosed, £72,709.. 376,022
f 185,799 14,000 8,496 71 p.c.=45,678 393,647
1921 -j Provision for depreciation of stock,
L £300.000 93,647
1922.. 35,457 14,000 20,204 5 p.c.=30,452 64,448
Inner reserves disclosed, £30,452.. 94,900
1923. .141,458 14,000 20,000 10 p.c.=60,903 141,455
1924.. 99,676 14,000 20,000 10 „ „ 60,903 146,228
1925.. 76,730 14,000 20,000 7 ~ „ 36,542 152,416
Inner reserves disclosed, £15,226 .. 167,642
1926.. 41,780 14,000 20,000 5 p.c. =30,452 144,970
1927.. 66,453 14,000 20,000 5 „ „ 30,452 146,971
1928.. 64,240 14,000 20,000 5 „ „ 30,452 146,759
1929.. 44,673 14,000 20,000 5 „ „ 30,452 126,980
The sharp drop of £19,567 in this big whole-
saler’s profits last year was mainly due to
the Adelaide business. The warehouse there
had been a drag for some time, so the board
decided to close it and collect the book debts.
In the circumstances loss was inevitable, S.
Aus. having been hit very severely by
drought. The management proposes to work
the territory from Melbourne, and thinks it
can see a profit in the connection then.
Apart from these special circumstances the
year’s aggregate net earnings at other centres
are claimed to have been more than enough
to satisfy the pref. requirements and to give
the .ords. 5 p.c., which is not discouraging
considering that retailers have been readjust-
ing their trading policies to altered condi-
tions. Mostly they have been buying from
hand to mouth, keeping stocks low; and, on
the whole, turnovers have been less than the
previous year’s.
In Robert Reids there is £1,059,035 of
share capital to feed, including 200,000 7
p.c. and 250,000 8 p.c. prefs.; also there is
£150,000 of 6 p.c. mortgage debenture stock.
After attending to the debentures and the
two lots of prefs., the year’s net earnings
showed only 1.7 p.c. on the £609,035 of ord.
capital compared with 4.9, 5.3, 1.2, 7 and
10.8 p.c. back to 1924. Nevertheless the
board made yet another assault upon the
none-too-substantial reserves, this time for
£19,779, in order to give the ords. 5 p.c.
That left the support for capital visibly
£14,475 weaker than it was half a dozen
years ago, notwithstanding that £15,226 of
the inner strength had been put on view
meanw'hile. Besides the accumulation shown
in the table, there was £40,094 set aside for
depreciation and £57,541 earmarked for pen-
sions at the close of last accounts. But even
so it is difficult to find much that is encour-
aging in the figures. The trouble is the
assets won’t earn enough.
Robert Reids’ experience since 1920 has
been a common one in the trade. Amongst
other things it tells of the changes and de-
velopments in retailing methods, and of the
growth of the Australian textile factory and
the specialty house and the chain store,
all of which have cut into the co.’s field. One
way and another a lot more business than
formerly passes by the wholesaler, who, in
order to make up his volume of trade, is
compelled to gather a large volume of small
orders, and also to finance many of his
customers. Moreover, there have been some
fair-sized casualties amongst both whole-
salers and retailers of recent years, and the
consequent flooding of the market with ware-
house and other softgoods stocks made it im-
possible for the survivors to show a profit
at all on some lines. Further, since the
last balance was struck tariff increases and
the pushing up of the exchange rate on
London have strewn fresh difficulties in the
path of the importer.
It does not by any means follow that the
day of the Australian wholesaler is past.
What it does make plain is that his chief,
if not only, hope for the future lies in sup-
porting and working in with Australian
industries. If this means working on lower
stocks, as it probably will, it should lessen
the dependence upon outside support, and at
the same time narrow the opportunities for
capricious fashion and price fluctuations to
play havoc with profits. The chief imme-
diate danger lies in the fact that the public
may be so short of cash, having so many
commitments to get rid of, as to severely
restrict turnover.
This comparison of balance-sheet figures
shows the co.’s position and the large risks
to which it is exposed:—
1927. 1928. 1929.
Ord. capital .. .. £609,035 £609,035 £609,035
Pref. capital . . . . 450,000 450,000 450,000
Debentures and interest 150,469 150,469 150,469
Mortgages '.. .. 83,652 82,192 82,387
Overdrafts, etc. . . 410,189 349,081 203,454
Creditors . . . . 320,787 241,072 219,080
Properties . . . . 235,238 241,147 236,104
Plant, etc 78,654 77,894 76,823
Stocks 1,212,452 1,143,401 913,054
Book debts . . . . 066,221 605,047 649,552
Investments, cash, etc. . . 93,424 93,870 100,714
Nevertheless the finances were quite comfort-
able, though the more or less liquid surplus
(£1,007,939, taking into account stocks and
£150,409 of debenture stock and interest)
was £10,905 lighter than at the close of
accounts in 1928. That was chiefly the
result of the liquidation of the Adelaide busi-
ness. The chief visible effect was a reduction
of no less than £230,347 in the book value
of stocks, which were lower than at any time
since the co.’s headquarters were trans-
ferred from London to Melbourne 10 years
ago, and the public were invited in and put
up the pref. and debenture capital. Mainly
because of the reduction in stocks the board
was able to wipe £145,627 off the amount
coming to the bank and depositors, lighten
the trade debt by £22,592, and at the same
time increase customers’ credits by £44,505.
The ords. are all held privately, the public’s
direct interest being confined to the prefs.
and the debentures. The pref;s., which have
priority as to capital, carry a fixed cumula-
tive 7 p.c. and 8 p.c. respectively, and rank
in the order stated. Last year’s reduced
profit was over £IO,OOO in excess of their
combined annual requirements, and the net
tangible backing amounts to £5 18s. 7d., and
£3 18s. lid. respectively. The market
prices both lots of scrip at about par.
Automatic Totalisators, Ltd.
Nominal
Net To Re- Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1919.. 1,061 Nil 1061 1061
1920.. 4,315 Nil 4315 5376
1921.. 5,241 5 p.c. = 9,591 1026
1922.. 9,566 5 „ „ 9,591 lOOl
1923.. 9,414 5 „ „ 9,591 824
1924.. 9,718 5 „ „ 9,591 127 951
Prefs. Ords. £
1925.. 9,919 10 p.c. 5 p.c. = 9,651 268 1219
1926.. 15,136 10 „ 6 „ „ 12,645 2491 3710
1927.. 16,625 10 „ 6 „ „ 13,494 3131 6841
British rights sold; net additions to
general reserve, £47,956 .. . . 54,797
1928.. 20,724 10 p.c. 32* p.c. =67,202 8319
1929.. 17,230 10 „ 6 „ ~16,509 721 9040
Better than that might been been expected.
Gross profits (£48,238) fell away £3175,
while exes. (£31,068) were £319 heavier,
thus making the slip in the net result £3494.
This was wholly due to a falling off in
Australian profits, which, after allowing for
taxation (£2095, up £1137), were '£5497
lighter at £2722 ; the net result from foreign
sources (£14,508) bettered the previous
year’s by £2003. The ord div. was reduced
to 6 p.c. again; and payment is deferred,
owing to drains upon the co.’s cash re-
sources. About £IO,OOO was spent during the
year in connection with the manufacture,
patenting, etc., of new-type totalisators
which, up ter the time the books were ruled
off, had not had much of a chance
to contribute to earnings. Further, the
two new machines built for the Wiest-
ralian Trotting Association a year or so
ago are not expected to turn in anything
until this Christmas, and there is about
£25,000 represented by that equipment. Inci-
dentally, it was to finance the construction
of these and other machines that 32,500
new 10 p.c. prefs. were put out shortly before
the close of accounts in 1927. Also more
had to be advanced to the French subsidiary
last year, and the two new totes at Colombo
did not earn anything until after the
accounts closed.
The co.’s progress is largely governed by
its foreign contracts. The most recent de-
velopment in this respect was the sale in
1928 of its rights in Great Britain and
Ireland to an English concern for £IOO,OOII
cash and a royalty of one-eightli .of one per
cent, on the turnover, with a guaranteed
minimum of £2OOO p.a. No hint is given in
the latest report as to what progress, if any,
has been made by the English co., or what
the prospects are of the royalty ever becom-
ing worth anything more than the guaran-
teed minimum. After paying exes, in con-
nection with this contract, handing Auto-
matic Ticket Issuers, Ltd., something for
rights, and striking an unstated sum off the
book value of patents, etc., the £47,956 left
out of the £IOO,OOO received from the Eng-
lish co. was split up in a 25 p.c. bonus
amongst shareholders a year ago. A pro-
posal for the sale of the co.’s rights in the
U.S.A., Canada and Mexico for 120,000 dol-
lars fell through.
The French subsidiary, Automatic Total-
isators (France), Ltd., has a paid capital
of £200,000, half in 10 p.c. cum. participating
prefs. and the other half in ords. The parent
owns all the ords., which were issued fully
paid in part payment for rights, etc., and
has guaranteed the minimum pref. div. for
20 years. The pup gets 1 p.c. on the total
investments recorded through its machines.
It commenced earning in March, 1928, and
for the next three months, which covered
two-thirds of the Longchamps racing season,
netted £10,393. For the 12 months to June
30 last the profit, before allowing for French
taxation, was £11,107 as against the pros-
pectus estimate of £13,448. Certainly earn-
ings during t.hese first two fiscal periods
had to bear some non-recurring charges, but
profits will need to exceed £15,000 p.a.—
£IO,OOO minimum pref. div. and £SOOO pref.
capital redemption fund—before the ords.
can get into the picture. And if the parti-
cipating rights' of the prefs. are to be worth
anything, profits of over £25,000 will need
to be earned. At June 30 last the parent
had advanced the pup £8698 on account
of pref. divs. and £31,342 for business pur-
poses.
Here is the parent co.’s position, with com-
parisons, a.s far as balance-sheet figures dis-
close it:—
1923. 1926. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital. . £191,825 £206,879 £241,825 £241,825
Liabilities . . 9,520 13,495 10,478 19,933
Patents, plant,
etc. . . 177,799 198,696 200,133 216,673
Book debts . . 33,644 28,210 56,290 66,826
Freeholds, etc. 6,176 6,793 6,808 6,844
Stock.. .. 4,298 10,221 13,750 16,168
Shares ..
Cash . . . . 6,604 13,683 73,840 5,419
During the year £16,540 was added to the
book value of patent rights, models, plant,
totalisators, etc. Part of the increase was
on account of patents, but exactly how much
of the £216,673 at which the omnibus item
figured at Oct. 31 represented intangibles is
not disclosed. On the other side of the sheet
there is a reserve of £110,838 against patent
rights, but £IOO,OOO of it is represented by
shares in the French subsidiary. At present
these have no tangible value, and, under
existing terms, may not be able to earn any-
thing after about 18 years. As the co.’s
rights for various countries are sold they
become less valuable, or perhaps of no value
at all, to the co. itself; hence the import-
ance of adequate depreciation. The £68,421
drop in the cash holding last year was largely
due to the special bonus paid after the close
of accounts in 1928, and partly to the outlay
on patents, etc., and partly to advances to
the pup. These latter account for most of
the £11,642 by which book debts grew during
the year. Altogether the more or less liquid
surplus (£68,480, including stocks) was
£64,922 lighter than at the previous balance.
Much is expected from the newly designed
machines, which include portable equipment
suitable for the requirements of small clubs.
During the current term earnings should
benefit from the Colombo and Westralian
machines. But the investment market, which
has been disappointed in its anticipations,
recently priced the ords. at 18s. as against
325. cum div. (Is. 6d.) and bonus (55.) a
year ago. After allowing for last year’s
div. (Is. 2d.), the return at the current price
is a shade over 7 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis.
Apart from the rights and depreciation re-
serves, the net asset backing amounts to
20s. lid. per share. The prefs., which stood
at 235. 12 months back, are now around 225.:
at which figure the return is a shade over
9 p.c. They have priority as to capital and
carry a cumulative 10 p.c. Last year’s profit
was over three times their annual require-
ments, and surplus liquids amounted to
275. 3d. per pref. share.
(Continued on page 20.)


£ M,000,000 in one year
from Rabbit Farming
• x \
7T*
w
'■4*
S?L
M. %
m
sZ
Ho
m
€
m
1
' 1 ' M
&
W
j^g&gajg,,.... v .,
Wealth which dou BLEs wji 5 twcfc
Those are the official figures of the rabbit fur
industry in France for last year—yet Angora
rabbits bred in France cannot compare with the
Australian-bred animal! For years this country
has been missing a golden opportunity—AT
LAST IT IS AWAKE! The scientific breed-
ing and farming of Angora rabbits in captivity
will shortly become one of Australia s wealthiest
industries. Already—within 25 miles of Sydney
-—that industry has been strongly established.
This is your first opportunity to share in its
golden rewards.
At the 68-acre Castle Hill Stud Farm of N.S.W. Wool and Fur
Limited are over 2000 specially selected and perfectly bred Angora
rabbits living under ideal conditions. By the end of January there will
be 4000. After 1930 the Company will be in charge of an increase
of 400,000 rabbits every year. Good Angora furs are worth from
5/- to 30/-. Angora wool is in such demand that one rabbit can
earn 18/- per annum, and hutch-fed rabbit carcases make most de-
licious food; you can see the enormous wealth which is latent in this
new industry.
N.S.W. Wool and Fur Limited has been formed to develop and
extend scientific rabbit farming until it ranks as a front-rank industry.
It will market furs, pelts, wool, and carcases. The possibilities are
obvious—and almost staggering. Remember—this Company is ready
for immediate commercial operations. It has the rabbits, the equip-
ment, and the organisation.
‘Jmwndous demand ter beaulifut Aniom mr
The fur of the Australian-bred Angora is richer and heavier than any
that are imported. Furriers admit this—they are ready to accept
almost any quantities of fur that can be produced. This Company is
breeding to supply. But it intends to develop its Australian enterprise
until it becomes national in scope.
N.S.W. WOOL & FUR LIMITED
NOMINAL CAPITAL, £150,000
Divided into 150,000 Shares of £1 each.
(Second issue of 34,185 Shares of £1 each.)
I/- per Share on application; 1/- per Share on allotment. Calls of not more than 1/-
per share at intervals of not less than 1 month as and when required.
(Full Prospectus on request.)
Directors:
W. M. FLEMING (Chairman), Grazier,
Terrigal.
C. A. COOPER (Managing), 115 Pitt-
street, Sydney.
GEORGE WRIGHT, Fur Breeder, Pon-
yara, Castle Hill.
F. LONEON, Manufacturer, Castlereagh-
street, Sydney.
HARRY PRICE, Company Manager, 76
Pitt-street, Sydney.
H. T. BLACKET, Grazier, Dubbo.
W. D. JOHNSTON, Company Director,
Manly.
Bankers: THE ENGLISH, SCOTTISH,
AND AUSTRALIAN BANK, LTD.,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Solicitor: J. A. CLAPIN, 119 PHILLIP -
STREET, SYDNEY.
Auditor: H. F. HELDER, CHARTERED
ACCOUNTANT (AUST), 76 PITT-
STREET, SYDNEY.
Secretary and Registered Office: W. J.
STRUMEY, DALTON HOUSE (2nd
Fir.), 115 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
-Destined
QUICKLY
to be one of
AUSTIN ALIAS
Wealthiest
Industries
Think this matter over. Try hard to find a flaw in it. Logic and
hard facts will convince you every time. The Government has ad-
mitted the rich possibilities of this industry—&nd N.S.W. Wool
and Pur Limited has placed itself far ahead of any possible
competition.
Here is your opportunity to “come in on the ground floor.” Don’t
wait until it is too late, and the price of shares has soared. The issue
is too clear to the whole of the public to make delay desirable. Fill
in the coupon and get the full prospectus right away.
SEIZE THIS
Chance
The Directors, N.S.W. Wool and Fur Limited,
Dalton House, 115 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —
I hereby apply for Shares of £1 each in the above issue, and
I agree to> accept tha same or any less number that may be alJotted to me. I
authorise you to register me as a holder of such shares, and I agree to be
bound by the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company.
I enclose £ ..., being 1/- (one shilling) per share payable on
Application, and I agree to pay 1/- per share on Allotment, and the balance
in Calls if required, not exceeding 1/- per share in any one month.
DATED THIS DAY OF 19
NAME IN FULL
(Mr. Mrs., or Miss)
ADDRESS ..
OCCUPATION
SIGNATURE
MAKE SURE OF YOUR SHARE.
Next week may be too late. Make yourself a Christmas present
which will stand in excellent and profitable stead all through
your life.


r
W
&
YG
BOORD&son
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
1
DT
Swift & Company Ltd.. Aunt raluNimi Agents. 26 SO Clarence St., Sydney
IDEAS FOR YOUR WILL
THE MAIN POINTS ARE—
1. —To appoint a permanent and reliable Executor.
2. —To provide for your wife and family—
(a) Income to your wife; (b) Capital to your children.
3. —To give general instructions to your Executor.
Write or call for our Booklet “The Making of a Will.”
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS & AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Mobilising
fe tbe Gold
WHAT DOES IT MEAN?
In its December number the
“Wild Cat” Monthly tells
you. The whole financial posi-
tion is reviewed.
The Bank of N. S. Wales
has reduced its dividend rate.
What does that signify ?
Clearly things are threaten-
ing which investors ought to
know about.
In these uncertain days
every investor —even though
it be only in a life insurance
policy—owes it to himself and
his family to keep himself
informed.
Let the Monthly help you.
DECEMBER NUMBER
NOW ON SALE
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM,.
22/6. From Newsagents, or Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, - Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
ŵ
m
B,
&
m
in
m
[prepared]
Guaranteed by the manufacturers to
go further, last longer and uniformly
give better results than any other
paint made.—“B.P.”
"KEEPS ON KEEPING ONI”
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
mi/
D
D
D.T. Holding Cos. and the Sun.
Last week shareholders in the Daily Tele-
graph Holding Cos. —the co. formed to look
after the old Telegraph interests in the
Daily Telegraph Pictorial, Ltd., —decided
t° accept an offer made by the Sun for all
the shares held in the Pictorial Cos. The
Holding Cos. owns 106,668 7 p.c. prefs. and
115,557 ords. in the Pictorial Cos. The pur-
chase price (£106,668, made up of £56,668
cash and 50,000 prefs. in Associated News-
papers, Ltd. —the concern which owns the
Sun and the News) is equal to the par
value of the prefs. only. Thus, the ords., of
which only 77,000 were issued for goodwill,
are not considered to be worth anything.
If the price being paid represents the true
value of the share interest in the Pictorial
Cos., then the results of that working co.
must have been much worse than the market
has suspected, for recently it paid 15s. per
share for the Holding Co.’s scrip. The con-
sideration now to be received is not likely
to yield more than a few pence over 9s.
per share.
The arrangement will doubtless be re-
garded as a tragedy by many interested, for,
though the purchase price allows for a
small pref. share interest in Associated News-
papers, old D.T. shareholders will now lose
all hope of capital or dividend accretion on
their holdings. The alternative was an
increase of capital; but in view of all the
circumstances those in control felt that it
would be useless to ask shareholders for any
more money. For though the excess of out-
goings over receipts has been greatly reduced
—at the beginning it reached nearly £2OOO
a week—there is still a considerable deficit.
The Sun people at one stage suggested that
they themselves might withdraw; but as the
Pictorial had no plant of its own, that was
put aside as impracticable.
In view of the absorption of the Daily
Guardian by the Sun proprietary, it has
been suggested that the intention might be to
weld the two morning papers into one; but
the Sun has announced that there is no
such idea at the back of its head. What
happens in that respect won’t concern Pic-
torial shareholders, anyway. No doubt
what did largely influence them was the*
anomalous position which might develop if
they did not sell and the Sun bought the
Guardian outright.
The Pictorial Cos. lias nothing to do with
the old assets of the Daily Telegraph Cos.
other than the newspapers and newspaper
plant. The premises or contracts for the
sale of premises were not in that deal.
The Proposed Tin Combine
In this article The Bulletin’s oldest
authority on mctal-maricet prospects dis-
cusses the chances of a successful tin
combine.
The question of what effect on the price
the combine may have depends on how and to
what extent the various producers are to be
and can be controlled. Apparently the main
proposal comes down to some method of out-
put restriction. Another section of the
scheme is to engage in research with the
view of finding more channels where the
metal can be commercially used. The imme-
diate value of this inquiry is, however, not
visible-and may be disregarded for the time
being.
For the first of the proposals to succeed
requires a world’s combine of producers to
agree to a positive reduction of output. It
will not be sufficient to reduce the working
days, as some have suggested ; for the stop-
page of dredges for one day in each week
would enable the management, in some cases
at any rate, to get the working parts of the
dredges into such order that a great deal of
the lost time now experienced would be
avoided and the longer working time so
gained, with its concomitant output, would
easily make up for the stoppage. And if
the estimate of the London Mining Journal
of 169,000 tons for 1929 is correct, then it
appears that the world’s output must be
reduced by 10 to 15 p.c. to help the falling
price.
There are other hurdles to be taken before
a reduction can be arranged. For instance,
what is to be done about those companies
which are in debt, and especially those
companies which have debenture issues and
therefore have to meet interest and redemp-
tion charges? Such companies could not
come into the combine unless they were in
a position to earn enough on their reduced
output to satisfy their creditors, or unless the
universal reduction of output gave a compen-
sating increase of price in the metal.
Then comes the question as to whether the
Dutch interests will join in. They did not
join forces in the rubber restrictions, but
took every advantage of the situation, and
for the moment made pots of money out of
the restricted outputs of British plantations.
Possibly, however, they have realised that in
the long run they gained very little, and for
that reason they may now come into the tin
combine.
Bolivia is a factor that has to be con-
sidered. It produced over 22,000 tons in the
first six months of 1929. But, fortunately
for us, Bolivian ore is more or less “dirty,”
and has to be sent out of the country for
treatment. Hence it is doubtful if there is
much profit for a lot of Bolivian producers
with tin even at £ISO. For purposes of com-
parison, Siam and Burma together produced
6275 tons in the first six months of 1929.
The Malay States produced
32,349 tons for the same period. The out-
' standing feature of the F.M.S. production is
that it is confined to European-owned mines
and Chinese-owned mines. In 1920 the Euro-
pean mines produced only 36 p.c. of the tin
otuput. In 1928 this figure had increased to
49 p.c., but by July of 1929 the proportion
had advanced to 61 p.c. It is still therefore
of considerable importance to know what
method the combine proposes to use to
control the Chinese production. If . the
Chinese output is not controlled, then it is
a sure thing that, as the price for tin
advances, the Chinese will rapidly increase
their outturn. They will be in the same posi-
tion as the Dutch were during the rubber-
restriction period.
It was probably with something of the
kind in view that the Government of the
F.M.S. shut down on further grants of tin-
dredging areas a month ago. This move,
by the way, seems to have passed almost
unnoticed in Australia. The official state-
ment sets out that possible depletion of the
F.M.S. tin resources has engaged the Govern-
ment’s attention, and that any acceleration
in this direction would be of no advantage
to either the industry or the country. Con-
sequently, save in very exceptional cases, no
applications for mining land or conversion
of agricultural to mining titles outside exist-
ing mining areas will be considered; and,
further, within such mining areas, aliena-
tion or conversion will not be approved
unless essential for the development of exist-
ing undertakings. These restrictions should
practically assure the companies already
working or about to reach the production
stage l a tempered monopoly. Also they
should limit the numbers of those likely to
swell the ranks of the anti-stabilisers later
on. Further, the number of future producers
is now definitely known. The re-action to
the Government’s move, however, will pro-
bably take some time.
Taking lead at £2O per ton, zinc at £23
and silver at 2s. per oz., the ore reserves
of Mt. Isa represent a gross value iof
£80,000,000, the Mining Trust’s technical
committee advises. And that is only count-
ing on reserves within the limits of completed
diamond drillholes to 750 ft. vertical depth.
The drill has since proved that there is no
change in the nature of the ore to 1000 ft.
at the points prospected. The Black Star ore
body has been proved to a length of 2200 ft.
with widths up to 230 ft.; and neither the
northern nor southern limits of the strike
have yet been defined.
From the first 2000 tons-a-day plant now
being erected an annual production of approxi-
mately 70,000 tons lead, 3,100,0000 z. silver
and 4800 tons zinc is expected. It is esti-
mated that this production should turn in a
net profit of about £900,000 p.a., subject to
taxation, with metal prices at the figures
stated above.
Geologists Roland Blanchard and A. J.
Maese will arrive in Sydney this week. They
are to examine the Burketown (Q.)
mineral field on behalf of Mining Trust,
Ltd. The party will be equipped and added
to at Mt. Isa, from which point a start
will be made for Lawn Hill before the end of
the year
* * $ *
Edie Creek Prop., the parent of New
Guinea Goldfields, conducted its own funeral
last week, and, as was meet and proper,
F. S. Boyce, the principal spokesman, eulo-
gised the holdings which the new co. is to
tackle. He dwelt on the large number of
lodes and mineralised zones on the plateau
and lower areas, and claimed that “the rich
assays from rhodonite gangue veins below
the oxidised manganiferous outcrops augur
well for the persistence of gold in depth, and
that the high values disclosed in trench and
shallow adits are not merely the result of
surface enrichment.” Well sinking and driv-
ing will prove the reef —it there is one. In all
the months that those concerned have been
scratching- about the field, not one parcel
of auriferous stone has been submitted to a
crushing, putting dollypot tests on one side.
Surely there has been ample opportunity to
do this! Another important matter hinted
at in the chairman’s speech, and confirmed
from other sources, is the modification if not
abandonment of the original railway scheme
The latest idea, not yet finalised, is a flying-
fox, some 13 miles in length, to connect the
7000 ft. plateau with the beach country. From
the terminus of this aerial ropeway, a tram-
way would connect with Salamoa.
* * H* H*
“Old Warden”: Intimation that Sloan’s
New Guinea, one of the latest prospecting
syndicates formed in Sydney, has applied for
a dredging lease on Gira River, in n.-e.
Papua, brings a whiff of old times. Over a
generation ago, when mining in Papua was
almost entirely an alluvial digger’s job, a
sudden craze set in to take up dredging leases
on the Gira, which debouches just on the old
German border, and on the Mamba, a larger
river which enters the sea some four miles
to the south. Most of the men digging on
the Gira and Yodda fields then, including
Joe Sloan, who is in charge of the prospecting
party above referred to, took up leases on one
river or the other, though I fancy there was
little testing and that most of them were
taken up in hope of selling to a southern
syndicate. The Government took a hand,
engaged a surveyor on contract, and soon the
warden’s office at Tamata was brightened by
beautiful plans of the leases colored like
salmon flies. No fish ever rose at them, how-
ever, and they were still there when the
writer was last on the spot. Both rivers
carry large beaches after entering the flat
coastal country, these being mostly diorite
shingle of considerable depths. Both rivers
have fairly shallow bars, on which, however,
there is rarely any break. The area taken
up is four miles long by 110 yards wide and
is to be bored. A lot of old hands as well
as the shareholders in Sloan’s will take a
keen interest in the outcome.
* si: * #
“Old Hustler” : Some good work is being
done here at Bendigo with a geophysical
ore locator, using what are known as the
Frazer electi-ical hertzian waves. The instru-
ment photographs underground masses, or in
other wards X-rays the earth. On the New
Red, White and Blue lease, a fresh body of
ore has been located by the new method.
Further tests are to be made in the district.
* * 4s 4=
Just to be in the fashion, the Collie
(\v.A.) coalminers recently went on strike,
but the wages and conditions were too good
to lose, so after four days’ home duties they
went back to work under protest. The con-
ditions of the coal industry at Collie are
unique. Practically all the working pits are
owned by the Amalgamated Collieries, Ltd.,
buL the price and percentage of coal to be
drawn from each colliery is fixed, not by the
owners, but by a three-years’ agreement made
at a conference of representatives of miners,
loco, drivers and the Commissioner of Rail-
ways. The owners disburse a 10 per cent,
div. per annum on a capital of £250,000, and
reserves are suspected of being substantial.
* * * *
At the annual meeting of the Wiluna
Gold Corporation, the big Westralian show
which was revived some time ago with S.
African capital, chairman J. A. Agnew had
a bit of comforting news for shareholders.
Systematic testing on the east lode had
shown, that there was no dimunition in
values with depth, while metallurgical tests
had demonstrated that the ore in both
lodes was amenable to the same treatment.
These two lodes are to be worked for an
initial production of 40,000 tons monthly,
and the additional northern leases also pro-
mise large quantities of highly profitable
stone. Plant erection, Agnew said, was
going well, and anew method of treatment
would knock 6d. a ton off working costs,
with an enhanced gold recovery. The rail-
way linking up the mines with the line to
Geraldton is expected to be finished very
soon.
4= * * *
Worried shareholders have been asking
what has happened to W.A.’s manganese
show. Nothing is doing at present. When
improvements are .effected to Geraldton har-
bor, and the railway department has the large
hopper-waggons ready for transport of the
ore, an effort will be made to do some serious
marketing. But that won’t be for two, maybe
three, years. The W.A. concern will probably
have strong competition from a co. formed
to work a manganese deposit recently
opened up in Natal.
* $ * *
East Rand Consolidated,.Ltd., which 'owns
a large area of gold-bearing country near
Jewburg, and is well provided' with cash,
has acquired a controlling interest in a Pil-
bara (W.A.) mine. Here high-grade silky
asbestos •is being produced and sold in
London at £l2O to £l5O a ton. Some years
ago Professor David described this Pilbara
chrysotile asbestos as absolutely -first grade.
The world’s known supply of it is limited.
* sjc * *
“Topaz” writes from Taiping (F.M.S.) :
With modern’ dredges tin recovery compares fairly
well with bore figures. Fine tin, however, is unsav-
able at present where large yardage is the predomi-
nant factor. Also it is worth remembering that prac-
tically the whole of Malayan deposits have been mined
spasmodically. Thus boring results at best can only
be regarded as indicating values approximately.
Apropos the re-dredging of tailings, which is
often mentioned, it would not pay with any known
appliances, the tin contents being extremely fine;
in many cases a much smaller yardage would need
to be treated to recover any tin at all. All things
considered the present practice is the most economi-
cal.
The future of alluvial mining in the F.M.S. will
be mainly a matter of costs and the solution of
engineering problems. Large merger companies
promise a way out. These, with centralised manage-
ment and sufficient capital, should be able to handle
much lower-grade ground than is workable at
ẃ


Designed for War Service!
POWERFUL MILITARY WIRE CUTTERS for bolts or wire, up to |in.
Ready ]or use.
Folded up.
Made in England, these cutters were intended for use under the severest
conditions. They fold from 14in. to long. Every one is fitted with a
lanyard. An excellent tool for farm, home or workshop. Price, 2/6 per
pair. Postage within State, 9d.
The Last Word in
GRINDERS
The frictionless ALL-BALL DRiyE
revolutionises the conversion of recip-
rocating to high-speed rotary motion.
Efficiency is doubled. Wear eliminated.
5000 runs per minute. 1500 to one
stroke. Runs for several minutes, as if
motor-driven.
Farm and Garden Tools, Harvesting
Sickles, Joiners’ Tools, etc., are taken
with surprising ease and control across
the Horizontal Wheel, which, being
recessed i}in. gives maximum conveni-
ence and wear.
Easily fixed anywhere. Quickly oiled or
adjusted. Throws no dust to the face.
Maximum wheel surface and service.
The All-Ball is guaranteed to stand
up to the heaviest use.
No. 1, complete with Gin. x lin.
medium wheel etc.
each
Price,
65/-
No. 2, as illustrated, Gin. fast-cutting
and 4in. finishing . wheels, adjust-
able rests, clips, etc.
each
Price,
75/-
Height, 40in. Weight, 121 b. Any
wheel of fin. bore may be used.
5000 Revs, per Minute.
British Built.
w
A Copy of latest Catalog sent on request.
Ptopridant limited
DEPENDABLE GOODS SINCE 1860.”
51-65 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
582-92 Collins Street, Melbourne.
116-30 Way mouth Street, Adelaide.
JTk
-M
m
o*>f>
CP/t
f'Si
*o»j
"W/»
~Z ''---7
nmi ’
Be PLeadu
with a
rene.
FIR.E
EXTINGUISHED
Country homes are far from Fire Brig-
ades and particularly need fire-fighting
equipment. Where kerosene lights and
oil engines are used the danger is doubly
great. Have a “Pyrene’' Fire Ex-
tinguisher handy! It needs no attention
until used, and refils are always obtainable. It
is many times as effective as water, and will ex-
tinguish petrol fires, which water will not.
Works like a pump. Standard Model, with
chemical and Bracket for fitting to wall: 70/-
(Brass) and 75/- (Nickel). Write for Folder
Tb”
HARRISONS RAMSAY Pty. Ltd.
66G Bourke St., Melb.; Grenfell St., Adelaide;
52 Clarence St.. Sydney; Adelaide St., Brisbane;
A.M.P. Buildings, William Street, Perth
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
FORSTERS
BEDSTEADS LTD
Forsters Bedsteads, Ltd., manufactured the first
Hospital Bedstead in Australia, and are still
manufacturing the finest Hospital Bedsteads used
throughout the Commonwealth.
r
r.
9
•as
<232
Q
A. very up-to-date Bedstead used in numerous hospitals
throughout the Commonwealth. Has adjustable back and
Hercules Diamond Wire. Made with 1 ?in. posts. Can be
made with square corners at foot end if required, also lift-
out foot end.
This Mobile Bedstead is the hnest hospital bedstead made,
rhe mobile attachment at foot is simply manipulated without
olting the patient. The large ball-bearing rubber-tyred castors
msure smooth wheeling. Fitted with Hercules Diamond Wire.
The largest plant of its kind in the Southern Hemi-
sphere manufacturing all kinds of Hospital equip-
ment.
FORSTERS BEDSTEADS
LIMITED
(Established 1859),
MARY ANN STREET, ULTIMO, SYDNEY
’Phone M 4247 (3 lines).


That Aspiring
Young
Don Bradman
of Yours
gets an added real in-
trinsic pleasure when
you choose him a Gift
from MicK Simmons !
<
'.m
BOYS’ CANE-HANDLE BATS
Haymarket, willow blade, all cane and rubber handle.
Sizes 4 5 6
Prices 7/6 8/6 9/6
FREE Rubber Grip given with every Boy’s Cane-handle Bat
purchased during December.
DON BRADMAN AUTOGRAPH
BOYS’ BATS
(Made by Wm. Sykes, Ltd., II or bury, England).
Specially selected willow, treble rubber cane handle, with
grips and distinctive bindings.
JUNIOR SPECIAL, Size 4 ..... 14/6
JUNIOR SPECIAL, Size 5 16/6
JUNIOR SPECIAL, Size 6 18/-
FREE Cricket Score Book and Don Bradman Button given with
any purchase made in the Cricket Section.
A ll D.B. Autograph Bats personally autographed by Don Bradman .
BOYS’ HIDE FOOTBALLS
A
wt
Complete with
Bladder
3/9 4/3
4/9 5/3
An AIR RIFLE
Teaches a. Boy How to Handle
Firearms !
“DAISY” or “KING” 7/6
“KING,” New Model Breech Loader 13/9
“DAISY” 350-shot Repeater . . 10/6
“DAISY” 1000-shot Repeater 18/6
“TELL” N.P, Action . 42/6
u
i
A Wonderful
Telephone Set
A new idea that will give a
thrill to every Boy. Every
word is perfectly audible over
long distances. Very simple
to erect. Complete with two
Receivers, 3 Coils, Wire, One
Battery, One Battery
Case
45/-
(Carriage paid on Cricket and Football material, but not on Air Rifles
and Telephone Set.)
All Letters to Box 188, 720 Haymarket, Sydney.
Mick Simmons Ltd.
H RAD QUARTERS: 72 0 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
I
B
M
TRUCK
Model “Fourteen”
GROSS CAPACITY, 52CWT.
L
H
H
BEAN COMPANY’S
TRUCK CHASSIS
SECRET TESTS IN
AUSTRALIA.
(“Pictorial” Special
Service.)
LONDON, Friday.
Mr. Noel Martin, man-
aging director of the
Bean Motor Co., announ-
ced at a luncheon the
details of a lfi-50cwt.
Empire model truck
chassis.
He revealed that the
company built eight
experimental chassis
quietly, and shipped
three to Australia, with
instructions that they be
broken up if work could
break them up.
They were most
severely tested, and ran
collectively 150,000
miles before they were
reported on.
Extract from the “Telegraph
Pictorial,” 7/9/’29.
ŵ
PRICES
Short Wheelbase Chassis £585
Long Wheelbase Chassis £599
Chassis available for Immediate Delivery.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED,
163 William Street, Sydney.
ẁ


When you come to
SYDNEY
You will find at Usher’s every essen-
tial to the enjoyment of your visit.
Hotel service that is homelike,
cuisine of rare excel- “
lence, and that
friendly hospitality
which you desire.
Telephone and run-
ning water in all i
rooms. Book accom- J
modation early.
Special tariff or inclusive terms.
HOT E L
OPP. THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
’Phone 86511 (10 lines).
Cable & Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel,” Sydney. /
! ed an <*
wakfast
Tariff
lf desired
ON
3 P
<£
#ot
CM tQ
:
60
Solid Gold
WRISTLET WATCHES
Dainty and Practiced Gifts.
Nothing could be more certain of real
appreciation than a Christmas gift of one of
Fairfax & Roberts’ Lady’s Wristlet Watches.
The attractive designs illustrated show the
newest shapes, and are high-grade lever
movements in solid gold cases. Each watch
is guaranteed for 15 years and kept in order
free of charge (breakages excepted) for 12
months.
EXCEPTIONAL VALUE
AT
£6/6/-
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.,
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,”
23-25 Hunter Street.
PEAPES
Clothe men AND their sons.
Choose gifts for men and boys
at PEAPES’, whose sole busi-
ness it is to provide what
men and their sons need and
appreciate.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney,,
ABORIGINALITIES
“Bill Y.”: A quaint advertising notion
comes from Savernake, where Benjamin Hall,
general merchant, has selected to adorn his
calendar for 1930 a reproduction of
THE WAY OF UN.
“William, why doan’t ’ee tell that young brat to tidy up after un?”
“I do, Cap’n; but it’s like wotter on a duck’s back—in one ear an’ out t’other.”
the painting in the Sydney National Gal-
lery, “Bailed Up,” depicting an incident in
the career. of his bushranging namesake. It
isn’t every storekeeper who has a conscience
clear enough to risk such a parallel.
* * * *
“Digger”: The barman had just placed
two frothing pints in front of Bill and me,
when Binglii blew in. He began scratch-
ing amongst the sawdust at our feet. “Boss
bin gib it half sovereign get um change,
mine bin drop ’em,” he explained. We
stooped down and began raking over the
sawdust, but discovered no coin. Then, out
of the corner of my eye, I glimpsed Binghi
disappearing through the door, and our beer
had gone, too.
Jfc ❖ ❖
“Thomas Pepper”: Let me correct
“Frigid’s” assumption that the pull of the
sun and moon flattens tree-trunks east and
west (B. 13/11/’29). According to Ballot’s
law (see any standard work on
conchologyT, the approximate posi-
tion of the centre of a cyclonic
storm can be discovered by stand-
ing with your back to the plough,
on the off-side of the team.
Further, owing to the attacks of
woolly aphis, the Alice Springs
lighthouse is now out of order, so
that “Instructions for Mariners and
Licensed Victuallers” should now
read (p. 810) —“To overland
steamers up to 10,000 tons, and
fore-and-aft-rigged traction-engines
of any tonnage: Go straight up
the passage to the pantry, the
whisky is in the third locker on
the fourth floor of David Jones.”
Apart from this, it is a well-known
fact that the left wings of turtles
cannot be budded if the vine is
cinctured above the radial artery.
Also, the maxillary muscle of a
toadfisli (Frogenbulli aesopus)
cannot be induced to indicate “set
fair” without intra-vascular injee-
tions of No. 8 fencing-wire. Which proves
that neither the sun nor the moon has any-
thing to do with it.
* * * *
“Cadonga” : Bill and H’arry, sleeper-cutters
by trade, were arguing in the bush pub as
to which of them was the better hand at
figures. Bung suggested that he should give
them a test. “Look here!” he said. “Do
this in yer heads: suppose I ordered a
hundred turpentine fence-posts from yer at
15s. 6d. each, how much would I have
ter pay yer?” The two mates wrestled with
the problem for some minutes without arriv-
ing at a solution. At last Bill turned to the
publican. “Did you say turpentine sleepers?”
he inquired. “Yairs,” answered Bung.
“Stone the crows!” said Bill, “and here’s
me been wastin’ me time figurin’ on iron-
bark !”
* * * *
“Waranbini”: The day was a scorcher, and
old Jack Rigg, with a heavy swag up, was
sizzling on a wade plain where not even a
tree was visible. Away up the road he saw
a motor-car gradually taking shape from the
partially obscuring haze. He threw his
swag down in the grass. “Have to get out of
this somehow,” he muttered; and hastily tak-
ing off one of his boots, he tied a huge
bandage round the foot, then picked up
Matilda again and proceeded. When the
car overtook him he was limping slowly over
the hard clods of a rutted road. “What’s
A HINT TO FOND MAMMA.
FOND MAMMA: “What did mother’s darling learn at school to-day?”
MOTHER'S DARLING: “I dunno; but two blokes in my class learnt not to call me
‘mother’s darling.’”
the matter with your foot?” asked the
motorist, easing up. “Think it’s pizened,”
said Jack. “Dunno how I’m goin’ to get over
this plain.” “Hop in,” said the motorist; “I’ll
soon get you over it.” Old Jack’s face wrinkled
in smiles of appreciation as he settled him-
self comfortably on the soft cushions, but
after a while he wasn’t so easy. “I’m a
doctor,” said the motorist as thpy rocked
along. “Oh, are yer?” said Jack, a bit scared.
“I’ll have a look at your foot as soon as
we get to the creek,” the doctor added good-
naturedly. Jack thanked him in an abstracted
manner, and over the hot miles he was think-
ing so hard that he had no time to talk.
When the creek was reached, the car bumped
over the crossing, and then turned aside into
a clump of trees. “It’s been a gruelling
day,” said the doctor. “I’m going to have a
dip here; but, first of all, let me have a look
at that foot.” “Right,” said Jack, “but I’ll
hop down to the creek an’ have a wash first.”
He grabbed his swag as he spoke, and while
the doctor was getting his towel the old chap
dived into the scrub. “If I’d wanted a
flamin’ doctor,” he muttered, “tliere’d ’ave
been none nearer than Macquarie-street.”
!|S * * *
“Cedilla”: Leisurely knocking the top off
a burning stump, I was surprised when a
sudden spout of boiling water narrowly
missed my face. I wasn’t sure whether
I’d unearthed a baby geyser or the latest
improvement in artesian bores until I dis-
covered that the stump had a large cavity
in which bubbled several gallons of water.
I didn’t have to boil the billy that day.
❖ ❖ i’fi
“Tallama”: Although I have read many
references to the late Jack Howe’s shear-
ing tally in The Bulletin, I have not yet
seen the full figures recorded. Here’s some
newspaper evidence. The Barcoo Indepen-
dent recorded at the time that Howe shore
321 sheep with shears on Oct. 10, 1892,
at Alice Downs station, a few miles from
Blackall (Central Queensland). They were
nine-month-old weaners, and there were
47 men on the' board. In five and half days
that week Jack shore 1437 sheep. The same
year the Wolseley Machine Co. presented
a medal for the biggest tally made with
machines, and Howe also won this by shear-
ing 237 ewes at Barcaldine Downs. He was
then a novice with the machine.
* * * *
“Nitric” : The “blue sun” caused in Bris-
bane recently by the tremendous dust-storms
of the West has a simple scientific explana-
tion. The color is caused by the presence in
the upper air of myriads of specks of silica
oxide from the Central Australian deserts.
This cuts out the red and yellow rays of
the sun, leaving only the blue.
* * * *
“Sea Nomad”: The easy-going Tongan
islanders have decided, after thinking about
it a long time, that the white man is a
curse. Besides inflicting their island para-
dise with himself, he lias introduced the
missionary, the tourist, the Government
officials and other sticky-beaks, work,
Epsom salts and soap. And, worst of all—>-
grass-seed! Paspalum was brought over by
a Clarence River man, who imagined he was
doing the Tongans a good turn. So did
they, until they found it over-running their
gardens. Johnstone grass came over as
saddle stuffing. When the saddle was cast
aside, the seasonal rains transformed the
contents into a green carpet of grass. The
Islanders were delighted, whites and browns
alike. But now Tonga-tabu, the largest
isle, is over-run with the stuff waist high.
Hi * * *
“Narara”: A job requiring Job-like
patience was undertaken by an Upper
Hawkesbury River (N.S.W.) cocky a little
while ago. While cutting chaff with a hand
machine he missed a banknote out of his
pocket and found that it had fallen in
among the hay and had been chopped up
with the chaff. He laid the chaff in a heap
on the table, sorted all the pieces of paper
out and commenced to stick them together
again. It was worse than the worst jig-saw
puzzle, but he was of Scottish extraction,
and at last he had a weird-looking trophy
which the bank, after thinking hard, decided
to cash.
* * * *
“Mundowie” : Movies of Yankee cowboys’
huts usually show a liatrack of some sort
for the accommodation of the sombreros.
That is a convenience I have never seen on
an Australian station. Bill drops his old
grey felt on the floor beside him, or under the
table, unless there happens to be a bench
handy outside. Sometimes he hangs it on
his knee or his foot. I went in to break-
fast with the men one morning at a W.
Q’land station. One hat was hung on a
nail on the slab wall, and seeing a similar
hook at the opposite end of the table, I
attached my roof to it and sat down. A
lanky person who came in late halted
abruptly and stared at it. “Whose hat’s that
on my nail?” he demanded. As I trans-
ferred my property to the floor, I noticed a
name pencilled under the spike, denoting
that it was private property.
* * H= *
“H.G.F.” : A monument to the energy and
patience of the old-time Cornish miners can
be found between Knockwood and Ten Mile,
up near the Delatite and Goulburn rivers,
Mansfield district (Vic.). It is a tunnel
through almost solid rock, over a mile long.
The cousin Jacks drove it to cut off a bend
of the Goulburn. They were, of course,
after the bed of the river, from which they
scraped gold to the value of thousands. The
tunnel is now blocked up at one end, but
one can still walk comfortably along it, as
it is about seven feet in diameter.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Ixodes holocyclus —the scrub
tick—got its ninth victim in N.S.W. in 25
years when a 2|-year-old youngster died
from the bite of one. All the victims
have been children, the oldest 13 years; but
beyond the fatalities there have been many
cases of partial paralysis resulting from
bites, the ill-effects always following the ten-
dency to yank the little horror out by force
instead of compelling it to release its grip
by the application of a few drops of turpen-
tine or kerosene. The. tick gets in its dead-
liest work with dogs, scores of which go
out every year with tick bites; but a dog
that is washed at intervals with well-
kerosened water is pretty safe.
(Continued on page 25.)
THE OLD TIMER’S LAMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Did I ’ear y’ mention bushmen? ’Struth!
Them days is dead an’ past
(No, I don’t mind if I do, mate —beer an’
bitter, same as last).
Yairs, I’m rough an’ tough an’ baldy, an’
me ’ide’s like ironbark;
I can fight like twenty demons when I’m
up agen a nark!
I can tame th’ roughest brumby, ride ’em
till they’re glad to rest;
An’ I’ve driven forty ’orses in a wool team,
four abreast.
With the bullicks I’m a marvel; I can make
th’ blankards bend
Under loadin’ that ’ud make yer crimson
’air stand up on end!
I can throw an’ brand the wildest colt that
any mare ’as bred,
An’ there’s not a bush job goin’ that I can’t
do on me ’ead.
I’m a dinkum good all-rounder, but I lost
me flamin’ job
’Cause I couldn’t drive a tractor, an’ with
engines I’m a blob!
Stone th’ crows! Y’ talk of bushmen —why,
they’d make a bloke shed tears
With their everlastin’ cackle erbout motor-
trucks an’ gears!
Now it’s oilcans, nuts an’ spanners, an’ the
good old days is past
(No, I don’t mind if I do, mate—beer an’
bitter, same as last).
N.s.w.
D. McM.


The discriminating admire its
dignified style and delight
in its dashing performance
V
: *3
■
' ' ■
i
1
Hw9nMßSmaSMaiw
mm
■
PRICES from <£595
PRICES GIVEN SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR
Convenient Payments can be arranged
on the liberal G.M.A.C. Terms Plan
GENERAL MOTORS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
BRISBANE - SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
Numbered among the Vauxhall
owners are many who have pos-
sessed cars since the early days of
motoring. To-day Vauxhall is
still their choice.
Alike with newcomers toVauxhall
ownership, they find in their cars
a dignified style and appearance
that is most happily linked with
dashing performance.
In the 20/60 Vauxhall Six a new
conception of automotive values
is applied, resulting in smooth
power, speed, flexibility, comfort,
and roadability all so perfectly
balanced as to mark Vauxhall an
engineering triumph.
Vauxhall owners speak of exhil-
arating fourth-gear performance on
hilly roads—ability to idle without
vibration—speedy get-away.
You are invited to arrange with
your local Vauxhall dealer for a
demonstration. Ride in it—drive
it—experience the comfortable
thrill that only Vauxhall’s perfor-
mance can give.
like Improved 20-6 o
VAUXHALL SIX
it’s a General Motors car


Pack Up
Your Troubles!
We offer you our greetings. We hope
happiness will abound during the festive
season and goodwill, good health and
prosperity will be experienced during the
coming year.
Winch combe, Carson Ltd.
Sydney, Brisbane, Longreach,
Hughenden, Charleville, Dalby.
WHAT DOES SPENDING COST?
How much does it cost you to spend £100? The answer is
£1 00 down and at least £4 per annum for the rest of your life.
Yet what man would knowingly spend £lOO that put him
under obligation to pay £4 per year for life.
None, perhaps, but many do it unconsciously when they spend
money that might otherwise have earned interest at 4 per
cent, indefinitely.
Every pound you spend has attached to it an invisible string
of pennies which you spend with it.
Keep your money in a Savings Account and earn, not spend,
4 per cent, interest per annum.
Cbimonwcaltb Savinas Bank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
Victoria Means Variety
The stupendous panoramas .of
BUFFALO and the placid, rippling
beauty of the GIPPSLAND LAKES —
The sandstone crags and peaks of the
GRAMPIANS and the sweet-smelling
charm of HEALESVILLE—
The thunder of surf along Victoria’s
gold and azure coastline, and the clean,
fresh winds, across the BOGONG
HIGH PLAINS.
ALL THESE AND A HUNDRED
AND ONE OTHER VARIED
DELIGHTS VICTORIA OFFERS
THE TOURIST.
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU
Queen’s Walk, Melbourne,
Martin Place, Sydney,
will help you to make your choice.
“Pigcat”: It was raining steadily. I was
riding along the banks of a creek which
was running a foot or more in depth. Ahead
of me the pads of a big mob of sheep, freshly
passed, also followed the banks of the creek.
I saw their tracks where they’d hesitated
before crossing the stream. The tracks on
the other side showed where they’d crossed.
The tracks went on. I followed ’em. They
crossed another channel, skirted a boggy
patch, threaded their way through a maze of
small channels, and came out on the other
side on the hard country. It was still rain-
ing, and all creeks and gilgais were full.
The tracks led to Bronzewing Tank. As I
reached the dam the sheep got there. Bleating
piteously they raced over the bank, a string
of ’em pushing those in front. They ran
down the bank, reached the water, dipped in
their noses and drank as if they’d just come
off a long and dry stage!
ONCE BITTEN ALWAYS SHY.
DAISY: “D’you like oysters, Dave?”
DAVE: “Ar, I only tried ’em once and they
broke me tooth.”
“Frigid”: Touching on the controversy
about bushed people walking in circles, the
sense of balance and direction is seated in
three bony semi-circular canals attached to
the inner ear. The pressure on fluid con-
tained in these canals varies with the posi-
tion of the head, and this is communicated
to the brain by nerves at the ends of the
canals. Deaf people, in my experience, walk
at night time with a decided bias to the left,
and never to the right.
“Stumpy” : Every winter whales come to
the Barrier Reef. I’ve seen 16 at one time
out from Border Island, in the AVhitsunday
Group, making to-
wards the reef.
They run AVhit-
Sunday Passage
regularly during
the winter months,
coming with the
night, and going
with the day tides.
I’ve seen five in
one mob, all
mature, rubbing
the barnacles off
themselves on the
cluster of rocks
out from Naira' In-
let, in Hook Island.
If the whalers fol-
low them we’ll
have a chance of
learning some of
those many secrets
of the reef the
Japanese have dis-
covered.
* *
“C. Coral”:
Some time back the
custodians of the
little cemetery on
the hillside at T.I.
were perturbed
concerning damage
inflicted upon one
of the monuments.
It was thought
that lads with a
pea-rifle were re-
sponsible, and a
watch was kept.
Closer examination
of the stone (which
is over the resting-
place of one of
Queensland’s most
prominent public
servants) indicated
that small pieces
had been chipped
off by a sharp tool
rather than by a
bullet. The mystery has been cleared
up by some Japanese gentlemen, who have
explained that their countrymen consider that
portions of the tomb of a great man, when
carried on the person, act as luck bringers.
* * * *
“Merrigal”: Those who believe the abo.
can claim Dravidian descent can point
to quite a number of place-names in N. S.
Wales in sup-
port of their
theory. Hindi,
the blacks’ name
for the Upper
Murray River,
is the Indian
name for the
river Indus.
Meroo, a tract
of country be-
tween the Mihi
River and
Brown’s Creek,
Moree, has its
double in the
Bannu district,
of the Punjab.
Mungyer, a sta-
tion on the
Mihi, is the
name of coun-
try on the Gan-
ges River, Moul-
mein, on the
Edwards River,
has the same
name as a settle-
ment on the
Salween River
f' in Burmah. Finally, Minimbah, in the
Hunter River district, the erstwhile
squattage of Rolf Boldrewood’s brother Syl-
vester Browne, has its synonym in Malabar
(originally Minimbah), in Southern India.
* * * *
“Tarantula”: An easy and simple way to
kill an abo. is to point a bone at him, as
everyone knows. In the Kimberleys district
of N.Q. they have a different method. An
offender against marital laws is “sung to
death.” The wailers gather round him and
keep up the concert till life is no longer
worth living, and the unfortunate victim
droops and dies. One of these was taken
300 miles to a hospital, and, though appar-
ently in the best of health, he died soon
after admittance.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Sacred trees are not confined to
savage Melanesia (B. 27/11/’29). In the
grounds of the Hotel des Indes, Batavia,
there is a waringin-tree so immense that
a whole family of gardeners have taken up
their abode in the cavities made by the
aerial roots. When the management pro-
posed to build a modern ballroom, it was
found that this tree would have to be
removed. A general strike was immediately
threatened, and the present unusual shape
DRASTIC PUNISHMENT.
“Madam, your confounded dog nipped my ankle and tore my
trousers!”
“Naughty, naughty Fido! I shall punish him severely. I shall
take his pretty ribbon from him for a whole week.”
of the architectural extension is the resul-
tant compromise. Many trees wdiose timber
is invaluable to the natives are sacred in
Borneo. Superstition, however, is never at
a< loss for logic. Before he destroys a tree
which is kramat the wily) Dyak builds
near it a small house. Then he drives a
hatchet into the tree, and returns to his
family. If in the morning the hatchet lias
fallen to the ground it is a sign that the
spirit has left his tree for the new residence.
It is remarkable how consistently the hatchet
fails to stay put.
* * * * *
“Pick”: We were burr-cutting on Moon-
bar cattle-run. A young calf left hidden
in the river grass, while its mother wandered
over the distant clover flats, was presently
attacked by mountain eagles. Scared by
the swooping, hooky beaks, the silly
youngster scampered from the protection of
the tussocks and
fled madly along
the cleared bank,
the birds tearing at
him with beak and
claw. Over the
river a herd of
mixed cattle, hear-
ing the little fel-
low’s frantic roar-
ing, became agi-
tated and restive.
They commenced
ringing the flat,
pawing the dust
and bucking with
stiffened limbs.
Then a long-
horned cow wheeled
out from the mob,
plunged through
the water and
dashed into the
fray. .Charging
amongst the hur-
riedly - scattering
eagles, she bound-
ed at them in
circles, with her
head low and tail
brandishing high.
One fellow with
outstretched talons
clawed at the res-
cuer’s face and was
bounced yards
backward. Follow-
ed by the other
killers, he hastily
spiralled aloft, while their intended victim,
whimpering and much bemauled, tottered to
the cow’s side. After a breathing spell the
pair wandered off to rejoin the herd.
:H He $ $
“Murrungurry”: Binghi used sometimes to
take to the trees when he wanted to hide
or lie in ambush. In the semi-wild days
of Wooroow r oolgen (N.S.W.) the manager,
while riding along a rise one afternoon,
chanced to look up as he drew close to a
broad-topped tree. The bridle-track passed
under the spreading branches, and the fine
shade they cast had taken his eye ; but what
he saw aloft suddenly banished his interest
in shade trees. Perched like crows among
the limbs were 20 or 30 naked blacks. All
were armed, some sitting and some standing,
and every one as still and quiet as an ebon
statue. What their object was he did not
stop to inquire; he rode home and gave
orders for the immediate ringbarking of
several hundred acres around the homestead.
He didn’t mind feathered crows about the
place, he said, but he couldn’t afford harbors
for the other sort.
* * * *
“Waranbini”: Scores of men have dis-
appeared in the Queensland bush, which has
plenty of places where there is no hope of
ever finding a trace. I camped one night
on a flat called Mud Springs, near Mount
Hutton, which was pitted with holes a
couple of yards in» diameter and of unknown
depth. A mound of brittle stuff encircled
each spring, giving it the appearance of an
old well. Some were covered with a thin
crust, to walk on which was death. In
other parts of the State the thin crust over
wells is covered with a thick carpet of
grass. These are most dangerous. A stock-
man told me that cattle which fell through
dropped so far down that the smell of the
carcases never reached the top.
* * * *
“Oollariuna”: Here’s how the nigs on the
Hamilton Creek 70 miles north of Oodnadatta
found what they reckoned was the murderer
of one Micky. Micky, as a matter of fact,
died of blood poisoning, but that didn’t
matter to the tribe. He was buried with a
great deal of wailing and weeping; and three
leg bones from a kangaroo went into the hole
with him. Ilis lubra, rubbed with ochre
and ashes, went bush for 12 moons to await
the working of the magic in the kangaroo
bones. Time expired last week, and the
gathering of the clans took place. Abos.
from Dalhousie, Charlotte AVaters, the far-
western stations and Oodnadatta gathered
at the graveside ; and the widow, with various
sisters and aunts to assist, got to it with
digging sticks and opened up the grave, a
shaft about 3ft. deep leading to a cave just
large enough to hold the body. The kan-
garoo bones were carefully raised, and while
the crowd stood around making corroboree,
tho widow, standing in the shaft, snapped
one of the bones across her knee. It broke
in two, and she had a go with the next one;
this one wouldn’t break, and excitement was
getting hot. When the third bone was picked
up, dead silence reigned. Slowly the gin
raised her knee, carefully she put all her
weight on her arms. Snap went the bone
and Bedlam was let loose, for a bit of bone
flew pff towards Lambina station. On
Lambina lived one Dick, known to have
been an associate of Micky’s just before he
died; so on him the blame fell. Within
half an hour all hands, with spears, boom-
erangs, blankets and firesticks, were streak-
ing across the sandhills for Lambina. Dick,
THE SYSTEM EXPLAINED.
“What’s the use of you having a time-table if your rotten trains
don’t run to it?”
“Now you’re all excited! How could you tell they was runnin’
late if you didn’t ’ave a time-table?”
who was out kangarooing with two com-
panions, ran right into the angry mob. Dick’s
companions returned to Lambina at sundown,
and reported that a debil-debil had jumped
from a saltbush and choked Dick with sand.
Next day the body was found; and the
tracks showed where overwhelming numbers
had held him face down in the sand until
he was “finishem.”
THE MINSTREL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The morn was cloaked with discontent,
My dreams were drab futilities,
As on the rising path I went
Among the brooding rimu-trees.
But where the vines laced limb to limb
In green delight a tendril stirred;
And from its leafy fastness dim
“ Cher-kirri-weeto!” sang a bird.
Strange that a wild thing’s notes should
bring
Forgetfulness of cares that sweep
Joy from a. mind’s remembering....
I stood to listen, drinking deep
The flood of melody, and all
Around was sudden glamor spun;
For there was in the silver call
A message and a benison.
“Cher-kirri-weeto!”.... All unsought
A wider visioning to me
The magic wand of music brought;
And, 10, I knew that vine and tree
Were drinking sunlight of the morn
Spilled lavishly on wood and slope;
And wisdom in my heart was born,
Transmuting discontent to hope.
The joy of life I gathered in,
All careless ’mid the forest ways
How Time’s remorseless hands might spin
The tangled pattern of my days ;
Though Fate may hold more frown than
smile,
And sorrow’s call too soon be heard.
Here only gladness lingered while
“ Cher-kirri-weeto!” sang the bird.
MAORILAND.
C. H. WINTER.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
ẅ
the relief of existing members out of work
through any trade disputes”.... The rules
have been registered by the Commonwealth
Arbitration Court, and are therefore legally
enforceable against members.
Any market for pawpaw seeds? —3613.
Can’t find one in Australia, though they
are reputed to contain a high percentage of
pepsin. This Department is informed that
extraction is being done commercially at or
near Singapore.
(1) Before admitting Russians into the
Commonwealth does the Federal Government
make inquiries into their political beliefs
with a view to prohibiting the entry into
Australia of persons who advocate the over-
throw by force or violence of established
governments ? (2) Number of Russians
admitted into Australia each year since 1917?
—3455.
(1) They must obtain permission from the
Minister of the department administering
the Immigration Act, who, in the past, has
required evidence to be furnished that the
intending migrants were persons of good
character and not likely to prove undesirable
inhabitants of the Commonwealth. (2)
1918, 199; 1919, 142; 1920, 121; 1921, 100;
1922, 116; 1923, 256; 1924, 312; 1925, 515;
1926, 477; 1927, 371.
(1) How are fishery inspectors appointed
in N.B.W.f (2) Qualifications necessary to
obtain such a position? (3) Age limits?
(4) Balary? —3s6B.
(1) By the Public Service Board. (2)
Mainly a practical knowledge of oyster cul-
ture and of the habits of fishes; an elemen-
tary knowledge of survey work, and ability
to write legible and accurate reports. (3) 40.
(4) £240 to £355 per annum.
(1) Biographical details concerning James
Hcbblethwaite? (2) List of his published
works? (3) Where could I find a criticism
of his poetry? —3349.
Born, Preston, England, 1857; entered St.
John’s College, Battersea, on a scholarship
and taught at English schools for 12 years.
Then came to Tasmania, where he became a
Congregational minister and was in 1900 prin-
cipal of Queen’s College, Latrobe (Tas.).
Afterwards he became an Anglican and was
vicar of D’Entrecasteaux Island until his re-
tirement. He died in 1921. (2) “Verse”
(1896). “A Rose of Regret” (1900),
Meadow and Bush” (1900), “The Poems of
James Hebblethwaite” (1921). (3) See
Nettie Palmer’s “Modern Australian Litera-
ture.”
The water in the shaft of our old copper-
mine carries 42 grains of copper per gallon.
(1) Is the solution strong enough for the
precipitation of copper? (2) How long would
it take to copperise a piece of iron 1 in. by
Sin. ?. —3603.
(1) Yes. (2) Depends on the thickness
and nature of the iron, and could only be
ascertained by experiment. The solution
should be kept agitated, and the iron must
be clean.
(1) Is a license needed for a pet rabbit
in the County of Cumberland ( N.8.W.)?
(2) Cost? (3) Where to apply? —363l.
(1) Yes, for a pet Angora rabbit. The
keeping of other sorts as pets is prohibited.
(2) £1 a year. (3) Secretary, Stock and
Brands Branch, Sydney.
(1) What would be the cost of transfer-
ring a suburban property from the old Pro-
perty Act to Torrens Title? (2) What is the
advantages? (3) Could it be done without
a solicitor’s aid? (4) Where could particu-
lars be obtained and application made? —
3798.
(1) Depends on the condition of the old
system title. (2) The land can be more
simply transferred, there is greater security
of title, and an assurance fund that pro-
tects the title-holder against the risk of error.
(3) Yes, provided the necessary skill and
knowledge are possessed. (4) Lands Titles
Office, Sydney.
(1) Hoio many miles does a Moth ’plane
fly to the gallon? (2) How much petrol did
Hinkler use on his flight from England to
Australia? (3) What were his expenses on
the trip?— 3soo.
(1) Between 15 to 20 miles to the gallon.
(2) Information not available. (3) The cost
of petrol and oil and aerodrome charges from
England to Darwin was £55. The cost of
petrol and oil from Darwin to Melbourne was
£2B.
(1) What does “Colony” mean as applied
to British Possessions? (2) What is Aus-
tralia’s official designation and its status as
a part of the British Empire?— 3Bls.
(1) The term “Colony” is an abbreviation
ot the official designation “Colony not pos-
sessing responsible government,” and it in-
cludes all such possessions whether or not
they possess an elective Legislature, but
does not include Protectorates or Protected
States. The term “Crown Colony” is pro-
perly applicable only to those colonies in
which the Crown retains control of legisla-
tion. (2) Australia is classed as a “self-
governing Dominion.” The Imperial Confer-
ence defined the Dominions as “autonomous
communities within the British Empire,
equal in status, in no way subordinate one to
another in any aspect of their domestic or
foreign affairs, though united by a common
allegiance to the Crown and freely associ-
ated as members of the British Common-
wealth of Nations.”
(1) What does the racing term “train on”
mean? (2) Will a mongrel-bred horse “train
on’’? (3) Will a mongrel-bred horse “train
on” after having' reached the top of his
form? (4) Will mongrel-bred horses reared
under similar conditions to thoroughbreds
stand the same amount of training and main-
tain their form as well as thoroughbreds?
3686.
(1) That a horse will stand stiff train-
ing and improve under it. (2) Not as a
rule, but there have been some notable
exceptions. (3) No. (4) No.
(1) Is it proper for the chairman to move
the adoption of the reports at a club's
annual meetingf (2) Is it in order for the
chairman to move a motion at an ordinary
meeting, there being no club rule against it?
(3) Have the mover and seconder of a
motion the right to speak to an amendment?
—3Bll.
(1) and (2) Formal motions are fre-
quently proposed from the chair, but no con-
troversial motion should be put in that way.
(3) Yes.
Method of pasteurising small quantity of
cream daily? —3sßß.
Two systems are used for this purpose.
One, which is called the holding system, con-
sists of heating the cream to 145 deg. Fahr.,
holding at that temperature for half an
hour, and then cooling as quickly as pos-
sible to 40deg. Fahr. The other system,
known as the flash, consists of heating the
cream to ISOdeg. to 185 deg. Fahr., and im-
mediately cooling as rapidly as possible to
40deg. Fahr. In each case the cream must
be kept free from contamination.
What causes the white efflorescence that
appears on cemented surfaces after they have
been exposed to the weather for some time,
and how can it be avoided? —3540.
It is caused by the separation of soluble lime
and magnesia salts, which are dissolved from
the cement during the process of curing.
Rapid drying intensifies the effect. The
remedy is to use a minimum quantity of
water in the mixing of the concrete, and
to keep the product damp, but not immersed
in water, for two to three weeks after pour-
ing or pressing. The efflorescence may be
removed by washing with clean water sev-
eral times. If the article is such that a
very weak solution of muriatic acid may be
used without injury, this will accelerate the
removal of the salt.
(1) What is the franchise in Canada?
(2) Is the Conservative party there the
same in its objects as the English party of
that name? (3) Is the Canadian summer
as hot as Q’land,, and is it variable like
Victoria? (4) What are the prospects of
the Canadian wheat-growers, and about
what is the price of land? (5) Could a
healthy man of 45, born and living all his
life in Q’land, stand the Canadian imnter?
—3450.
(1) Adult franchise, available to all
British-born subjects of 21 and over after
onei year’s residence. (2) Traditionally the
Canadian Conservative party is the higli-
Protectionist-tariff party. It advocates
Imperial co-operation, ample contributions
to Imperial defence and transportation sub-
sidies to the maritime and western provinces
to develop their export trade. (3) It is a
vast country with a wide range of climatic
conditions. Speaking generally it is many
degrees colder than Australia both in
summer and winter. (4) Canada is the
world’s leading exporter of wheat, and as
each year sees greater expansion in the area
under crops, wheat growing may be assumed
to give satisfactory returns. Land prices on
the prairies of western Canada range from
£3 to £4 per acre. Land with valuable
improvements or in closely settled districts
costs more. (5) He would probably find
the winters rather severfe except in British
Columbia, the climate of which is similar
to that of Vic.
What is the function of a filament rheo-
stat in a broadcast receiver? —37lß.
It is a variable resistance which allows
just the correct value of current to pass
through the valve filaments. If a 3-volt
valve is lit off a 4-volt accumulator, it will
be necessary to include a portion of the
resistance in the circuit in order to reduce
the voltage across the valve. Modern valves
are usually constructed to operate off a 2-, 4-
or 6-volt accumulator without a rheostat.
Is there a N.S.W. law protecting the
purchaser of cases of fruit the outer
layers of which do not truly represent the
quality of the remainder? —37s9.
Yes, and there is a penalty “not exceeding
£20.” Lodge a complaint with N.S.W.
Agriculture Dept., giving the name of
vendor, date of purchase, class of fruit and
condition. An investigation will then be
made.
(1) Are any of the Australian crabs
suitable for canning? (2) Where in N.S.W.
could a regular supply be secured? (3)
Would canning be profitable? —3692.
(1) Yes, the blue swimming crab (For-
tunus pelagicus) and the mangrove crab
(Scylla serrata). (2) Regular supplies of
the blue swimming crab would be difficult to
obtain, but fairly constant supplies of the
mangrove crab should be procurable in
N. Q’land. (3) Very doubtful, owing to
supply difficulties.
(1) What is the cost of an elephant
landed in Sydney? (2) Are all elephants
good workers? (3) Are they difficult to
handle? (4) Can they be fed on such horse
fodder as is available on a wheat farm?
(5) Any reason why they shouldn’t be
used on an Australian wheat farm? —-3712.
(1) About £3OO. (2) They vary in
(temperament, but practically sill females
can be worked safely. (3) They can be
worked by anybody with requisite training.
(4) Yes. (5) Many good reasons, chief of
which is that importation for such a pur-
pose would not be permitted by the Federal
authorities.
How to remove paint from a sulky with-
out using a blow-lamp, and how to repaint
the vehicle ? —3662.
Use a chemical paint-remover—there are
several good brands on the market. For
repainting, use buggy gloss paint; one pint
should be ample. The first coat should be
thinned slightly with turps and allowed to
dry hard; then rubbed down with whiting
and dusted, when a finishing coat should
be applied.
(1) How can I get my name on the quota
for tJ.S.A. as an. intending permanent resi-
dent? (2) Cost of passage to California? —
3662.
(1) Give your name to the American
Consulate, 17 O’Connell-street, Sydney, and
ask that it be placed upon the quota waiting
list of the country of your birth. (2) First,
£l3; second, £SO 10s.; third, £3l 10s.
Does Anybody Know?
Method of freeing a stone house of centi-
pedes?—37o4.
Brief Answers.
T. J.N.: Dealt with many times. Pros-
pects improved, but don’t believe the promise can
be realised. Still no more than a good gamble....
Bailey: Fair gamble; but if you look for safety, turn
to something proved H.H.: “Mr. Sponge’s Sport-
ing Tour” was written by R. S. Surtees and first
published in 1852; a copy of the 1882 edition is
worth little. .. .J.C.C.: Write to the Deputy Director
of Navigation, Sydney H.D.: Write to the
Aborigines’ Protection Board, Sydney, for an
application form and particulars of the con-
ditions of apprenticeship... .R.W.H.: There are
already at least six rim tools on the Sydney
market, all of which operate satisfactorily. Some
of these are sold as low as 15s. each retail....
R.M.: Apply Dental Board, Chief Secretary’s Office,
Sydney....C.B.: G. J. Broinowski’s “The Birds
of Australia” (Melb. 1899-91), 6 vols., is
priced in a London bookseller’s catalogue
at £lO 10s. Doubt whether you could secure
that price locally. Try Robertson and Mullens,
Melbourne... .R.A.: (l) Cummings Anderson Ltd.,
5 Hamilton-street, Sydney. (2) Write to Chapman
and Cherack, Clara-street, Erskineville, Sydney; In-
vincible Motors, Ltd., 53 North George-street, Sydney ;
or O’Donoghue Bros., School-street, Balmain East,
Sydney.... E.J.D.: In Q’land there is no limitation
on the acquisition of freehold land. . . .E.J.V.: A
letter care of us will find him.... Miss W.: If one
joint tenant dies the estate goes to the survivor. It
is not necessary to make specific provision in a will.
. ...F.C.S.: “Modern Billiards,” by John Roberts;
“How to Play Billiards,” by Tom Newman; and
“Practical Billiards,” by C. Dawson. .. .T.P.A.: (1)
Poor. In the large job-printing and publishing
offices the readers are usually compositors. (2) The
daily papers, as copyholder, working up to a
reader’s position. (3) £5 16s. 6d. upwards. .. .
H.W.W. : The coins are worth 13s. 6d. to 15s. each.
Lyster Ormsby and Cos., 235 Castlercagh-street, Syd-
ney, may be able to sell them; for you... .R.N.: You
can’t make application in Australia. Write to The
Commissioner of Police, Pretoria, S. Africa....
Ex-Merchant Service: If interest is computed at
quarterly rests you had paid off at the end of Sep-
tember last, £340. The final payment will fall
in March 1933....W.D. (1) Serve your neighbor
with notice in writing, requiring him to pay half-
cost of the repair of the dividing fence. If he fail-
to comply within six months without giving reason-
able excuse you may do the work and recover his share
in court.. (2) You are not responsible for the cost of
the retaining wall unless it is an integral part of the
fence.... C.L.: “Debrett’s” is published by Dean
and Son Ltd., London. The editor is Arthur G. M.
Hesilrige. .. . W.G.D.; Write to the English solicitors
asking reason of delay. If you don’t receive a satis-
factory reply within a reasonable time place the
matter in the hands of a local solicitor.... V. 8.: Some
people are immune to the effects of tobacco, but it
can affect the heart, cause constant headaches, sight
disturbances, neuritis, indigestion and other i 115....
S.F.L.: It is not subject to tax... .G.W.H.: John
Thompson, Geelong-road, West Footscray, Vic., can
supply machines... .C.G.: Have no knowledge of it.
To what disease are you referring ?....K.8.: (1)
Write Dept, of Mines, Brisbane. (2) Unless you have
had experience it would be useless trying to secure
a position. Freelance in your spare time. After 12
months you should know whether you can write....
R.W.: The N.S.W. Assoc, of Timber Employees organ-
ised by J. O’Brien is registered as a trade union, not
as an industrial union. An industrial union is one
that has undergone dual registration so as to bring
its members under the Arbitration Act. (2) Pre-
ference to unionists applies only to members of an
industrial union... .E.T.: “Commonwealth Year Rook”
No. 11, page 1203, gives anthropometrical measure-
ments of military cadets, made about 12 years ago.
.. . . R.M.R.; Get Bulletin No. 32, “A Survey of the
Tanning Materials of Australia,” issued by the
Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, Mel-
bourne. . . .W.E.U.: Willimbong is aN, S. Wales abo.
word meaning stony hill K.C.G.: “Necol” is
recommended. Sandy and Cos., 326 George-street,
Sydney, stock it K.E.: (1) Write to Dept, of
Agriculture, Melbourne for free pamphlet. (2) The
bed near the fence is in an unfavorable position. It
is better to have the plants in the open with direct
light from every side L.M.: (1) No medical fees
are charged in Sydney Public Hospitals. You would
have to pay for your board and attention according
to your means. (2) Quite simple in skilled hands.
. ...A.J.8.: In seven years you have paid off £135
10s. You have nine years 34 weeks to g 0....
W.S.: It is an original Colt’s “Frontier” revolver.
Loss of the trigger destroys its value as a curio....
Aurum: Can find no record of the Sydney Mint
paying more than £4 4s. 11 5-lld. per troy oz.
for fine gold. ...B.: Persons who have had at any
time 20 years’ continuous residence in Australia are
eligible to make application for the old-age pension.
. ...F.J.: Wash the face often with very hot water
and soap or spirit soap. Gently squeeze out the
blackheads. Keep the bowels well open and expose
the face to sunshine as much as possible... .J.N.:
(1) Yes. But the treatment is generally left to
specialists in cities. (2) No reason why it shouldn’t
be. (3) Arsenic compounds and bismuth. Intervals
vary; generally every week... .E.S.: The pension is
subject to a deduction of £1 for every complete
£lO by which the value of a pensioner’s accumu-
lated property (not including dwelling-house) exceeds
£50... .A.8.L.: (1) By rail the cost would be:
Swan Hill to Melbourne (second class), £1 Bs. 3d.;
Melbourne to Townsville (second class), £7
19s. By rail and steamer the cost would be:
Swan Hill to Melbourne (second class), £1 Bs. 3d.;
steamer to Townsville (third class), £7 ss. (2)
Apply to the agents for cargo boats... .A.R.: Mt.
Kosciusko is not the second highest mountain in
the world. It is 7328 ft. high and there are many
peaks over 20,000 ft. in height... .L.G.: Hawkins’s
“Introduction to the Study of Society,” Kroeber’s
“Anthropology,” Dixon’s “Building cf Culture” ; also
“Language,” “Dawn of History” and “Corridors of
Time”... .A.G.: (1) The first settlers on the Hawkes-
bury arrived in January, 1794. There is no record of
when the first oranges were grown there. The
earliest reference to the subject in N.S.W. history
is to the planting of oranges at Kissing Point in
1788. (2) No record can be traced. The schooner
Governor Bligh was launched at the Hawkesbury in
1807. Mitchell Library or Royal Australian His-
torical Society may be able to help. (3) Bush-
ranging practically ended with the capture of the
Kelly Gang in 1880... .Reliance: (1) Don’t regard
either as an investment, but think very well of them
as a gamble. (2) Nothing to choose between them.
... .Anxious: We’d take the A..M.P. and drop the other.
But make sure you can get into the A.M.P. first.
....A.C.: The wives of pieceworkers are eligible for
the N.S.W. family endowment allowance. Applica-
tion forms can be obtained from the Dept, of Family
Endowment, Macquarie-street, Sydney A.M.H.: In
the absence of a written agreement to the contrary
your tenant is within his rights in removing wire-
netting. You would find it very difficult to prove an
oral agreement... .C.V.S.: Write to the Secretary,
N.Z. Law Society, Wellington.... (Many others
mailed.)


f Owning
r/ a Car
bring!
Health
and
Happiness
into the
Home!
hS> X
P 3
I -SB
c*’
/<■ •
y"
f* .
Just a Boy/
y . >
> C" :\ ,
' ‘ ll 6 •*
\ V •»....’I.
'/'/'•OH * //*’»; "V/
/// v
! f
/a -'‘ ■•■ ,:>•
. . - n >//,:
V/v<
/ V • '/,
V, V', "</v
/■ ■'» *>. ✓> -
///«
&
l‘ r 'x
,r *v ' ".. -
.• - 4 i ?
IM» 'W/\h^
<r»
(l „
" A\J^
to
'V/
t,
it.
Vl!!!(u-3S5r
mp-
• ’ii
3$
4UU'
f>
SS
N 'xr
111
«r
W
r
»
i
.< Xl
41//
“r
4
ir.
i
✓
' / L&2
3
u/i&>
&SJ
XJTE dreams of a World
•*“ l ' that is Wonderland
—as he plays “ real cars’" with his toys.
There are oft times tears, but mostly joys
*-he’s 100% a boy.
« o
Some day, when boyhood days lie far
behind, maybe he too will own a car
... and because some of his happiest
memories of youth are associated with
“Dunlop,” he will select the tyre that
pleases.
■s a ■»
Thus does Dunlop become a household
name .. . for the kiddy of four, the man
of forty, and even four - score, accept
tyres by Dunlop -as above all, before all!
DUNLOP PERDRIAU PRODUCTS
are of the highest quality . . . reasonably priced
and dependable. ....... Should you need
'Garden Hose Sandshoes Rubber Heels
Tennis Balls Bowls, etc you can by
specifying ** Dunlop Perdriau” ensure the
utmost in value and service. At all stores.


WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most-up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydney I
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
e
Sydney Grammar School.
Day and Boarding School for Boys.
Applications for prospectus or interview should be made,
by letter to the Head Master, as early as possible. New term
begins 4th February, 1930.
Special features are the Preparatory Form, for boys of
9 to 12, in its own self-contained building and grounds, and
the New School House, with excellent accommodation for
60 boarders
Early application is desirable.
Headmaster: H. S. DETTMANN, M.A., B.C.L.
Chairman of Trustees: SIR MUNGO MacCALLUM, K.C.M.G MA
LL.D., D.Litt.
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
A.
Address Manager—
RGWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CR PARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
THE NUTRITIVE RATIO OF STUBBLE
STRAW.
“Noah Fraid”: Protein in all fodders is
estimated (except in research work) by
determining the percentage of nitrogen and
multiplying by 6.25. This indirect method
acts fairly well until it comes to the analyses
ot slip mils, gum-leaves, stubble straw and
the like, when the value becomes exaggerated.
It is an established fact that the percentage
digestibility of crude protein will vary with
the percentage of true protein present in
the fodder—the higher the content of true
protein the more proteids digested.
In a recent contribution (B. 16/10/’29),
m answering “F.5.A.,” I stated the nutri-
tive ratio of wheat straw, calculated from
the figures given, was 1 to ISO (not 1 to
220, as calculated by “F.S.A.”), but if cor-
rected for digestible pure protein, the ratio
would he 1 to 336.
The figures are quite correct, and show the
small value of wheat-stubble neat as a fod-
der. ,It requires practically the whole of the
gross energy contained in wheat straw for
the process of digestion, and the feeding value
is so low that sheep could not eat the
quantity required to supply sufficient nourish-
ment for maintenance.
With substances so poor in feeding value,
the pure protein estimation becomes a neces-
sity, for the alkaloids and amido compounds
(estimated as protein by determining nitro-
gen and multiplying by‘6.25) are valueless,
and the content of digestible pure protein
in wheat-straw is so low —.1 per cent. —
that sheep must starve on the diet.
Finally, taking the average figure of .2 per
cent, of digestible crude protein (proteids)
and a nutritive ratio of 1 to 180, sheep in
good condition with the usual pickings
could exist for a while on stubble straw.
But they would gradually get into the con-
dition of starving sheep, and the latter have
not the strength to utilise the straw at all.
Now I’ll give “F.S.A.” another. What
is the nutritive ratio of molasses? I say
it hasn’t got any!
DRILLING PICKLED WHEAT.
“Mug Cocky”: When using dry pickle
(copper carbonate) in your drill make a
practice of putting through one bag of wheat
in every fifty unpickled. This will clean
out your grain box and may save a few
stripped cogs, etc.; and if you are using
the correct quantity of pickle the odd bag
will be sufficiently dusted to ward off disease.
After storing your drill or combine, give
it a liberal coat of old sump oil, and soak the
hard-set super, off the stars. Old super, and
pickle are worse enemies to metal than rust.
SAND IN HORSES.
“Tumbe Munda” : The Bulletin’s Service
Department, asked for a simple cure for sand
in horses, advises the use of a pint of raw
linseed oil. Yet. Surgeon Place, of Rose-
worthy Agricultural College (S.A.), dis-
agrees. “Do not,” he says, “give raw linseed
oil, as it glazes over the surface of the sand
and protects it from the action of the gases.”
Place recommends new milk ; this, he argues,
coagulates in the stomach and gives off gas,
which breaks up the sand pack. Give also
honey, which stimulates the bowels ; or coffee,
which stimulates the system (lib.). If
slightly affected a feed of boiled wheat may
help. The chief things, in Place’s opinion,
is to create a large quantity of gas bubbles
and thus break up the sand.
STUBBLE STRAW IN THE SPECK.
“Kirk”: Compared with the mainland’s
farming practice, that of the Speck more
closely approximates the ideal set out by
“Hortus” (B. 13/11/’29) of conserving the
straw of the various crops for fodder. In
this little island State 80 p.c. of the crops
are cut and threshed. The country is closely
settled; the farms are not large, and, besides
being a fodder standby, the straw has a
market value on the mainland for packing
purposes, being much tougher than the main-
land straw, owing to moister climatic con-
ditions. In years when hay chaff is a
high price, much straw is chaffed for stock,
principally cows, which do quite well on
it mixed with bran or crushed oats and
molasses. Peas are largely grown in the
Speck, and this straw is very good for
milking-cows if it is soaked with molasses
and water. A big bin is filled with the
straw; the molasses, mixed with boiling
water, is poured over the straw and the lot
then covered with a bag rug. Cows milk
well on this—better, in fact, than on
Algerian hay chaff. But the pea straw
seems to need a laxative such as molasses
with it, otherwise serious trouble may
result. Horses, in particular, get bound
up if eating quantities of it, and I have
known of several losses through it. There
should always be ample supplies of water
available close handy when stock are fed on
straw.
DUAL-PURPOSE DAIRY STOCK.
“U. Murray”: At the Corryong cattle
sale the other day I heard the Man from
Muttamatate oraculate: “They talk about
the man who introduced rabbits! The man
who introduced Jerseys did the country more
harm!”
Now the Man from Muttamatate is some-
times right, and his oraculation set me
thinking, because through long years I have
dairied Jerseys and milking Shorthorns
and H'erefords and Ayrshires and Red Polls
and every imaginable cross of every avail-
able breed, and have always come back to
the little treacle-colored Channel Islanders.
So also have nearly all the open-minded
pursuers of profit in the dairy whom I
know of. Yet I was brought up to an
almost religious hatred of anything brown
or brindlised.
To say that the Jersey is worse than, the
rabbit is to assert that it reduces the pas-
toral value of the country infested at least
one-third. That seems absurd; yet it can-
not be denied that a fattening paddock full
of Jersey steers will not give two-thirds the
return of one full of the great beef breeds.
But, then, the man who breeds Jerseys is
usually one who looks to his dairy for his
main source of income, and only stands to
lose round about £1 per head on his male
calves, sold as weaners. In a dairy of, say,
75 cows, that is about £3O of a loss on the
bull-calves weaned —a loss that should be
largely off-set 'by the greater salability of
the heifer-calves. It is the man who finally
fattens the weaners who stands to lose
most. Unless, of course, the dairyman has
available back-country and keeps liis steers
himself. Then his loss is again considerably
off-set by. the amazin,gt hardiness of the
brown miclsies (whoever saw a Jersey
steer which had perished in the wildest
bush?). And it is useless to deny that in
the milking-yard the Jersey will make more
money with greater certainty than any other
cow in sight.
There is no doubt that, in a Jersey herd,
to . kill , the bull-calves and feed the. surplus
skim-milk to the pigs is the simplest solu-
tion of a serious problem. But in very
many oases, especially where winter milking
is not practised, pigs are apt to become such
a nuisance that dairymen will not be both-
ered with them. When from any cause the
killing of the male calves is not favored, I
have no hesitation at all in recommending
the dairyman of Jerseys to use Polled Angus
bulls exclusively, and depend on purchase of
any reinforcement of springers which he
may need. I have had experience of this
practice, and cannot recommend it too
strongly. The black-poll sire so used will
cover up and submerge, not only the out-
ward and visible, but the inward and con-
stitutional, faults and deficiencies, and give
a progeny nearly always full black and horn-
less, “soft-handling” and growthy beyond
belief. Spayed heifers, especially, of this
cross will fatten where no other cattle can ;
and, in common with the steers, will meet
the late-winter and early-spring markets bet-
ter than any of the so-called beef-breeds;
and those are, on an average, at least 50
p.c. the most profitable markets to meet.
By this means, and by this means alone,
so far as my experience goes, one can take
advantage of both the high cream-production
and hardiness of the Jersey cow and the
fattening qualities of the Angus ; with even
more ability to “rustle” than their sire.
Nor need one be bothered with the old
bogey of the impossibility of buying good
heifers; for years past it has been possible
to buy as good heifers as one can depend
on breeding, at a price that I, for one,, would
be sorry to sell at. Time and again I have
bought heifers fit for any dairy, and close
up to their profit, well under £7 per head.
In fact, I have made a fair profit on selling
the culls out of such lots of beef, after
drying-off and topping-up. The old times,
when everybody was rushing into dairying,
with much more enthusiasm than experience,
have gone, I fancy for ever; there must
be nearly as many nowadays going out of
the business as into it; and it is highly
unprofitable to wait for your own breed of
heifers to come on, losing years of your life
in the process.
BAD HABITS IN HORSES.
“Burrandong Bill”: Some horses develop
the bad habit of breaking bridles by pulling
back when tied . up. Try this method.
Securely fasten a metal ring to the chin-strap
of the head-stall. Make a slip-knot in one
end of a piece of plough-line, run the line
around the mount’s girth with the slip-knot
underneath, lead it up between his front legs
and through the ring on the head-stall. Then
fasten the line securely at the usual height to
a wall or high solid structure which the
horse cannot jump. By some harmless means
encourage the nag to pull back in his
usual style. The ploughline will tighten
around his girth and he will immediately
buck or jump forward, the line slackening
on his girth accordingly. Repeat until lie
shows no inclination to pull backwards ; then
remove the gear and pet him down. Should
he break another bridle, repeat the process;
the average animal will not require more
than two treatments. As a safeguard against
the line breaking it is best to use, during
the treatment, a strong halter tied to the
wall in such a way that the weight of
the nag’s pull comes on the line first.
I have used a similar method successfully
on an old confirmed jib by running the
ploughline between his legs and tying to the
spreader in front of him. No ring is neces-
sary in this case.
THE HORSE’S NAME.
“Sigs”: The best way to teach a young
team horse his name is to begin by touching
him lightly with the whip and calling the
name clearly but not sharply enough to
excite him. Do this while the team iS work-
ing quietly. After he has been responding
to it for a bit, vary things by only flicking
the whip and calling the name. Try him
further and further away, and if he shows
the slightest sign of slipping on it go through
it all again. Give the horse alongside him
a turn or two, and later both names together,
and don’t expect him to know all about it.
Now try him with his label sandwiched be-
tween _ two others, preferably those near
him ; increase the number day by day, and
when he will jump into the collar at sound
of his moniker among the rest and without
the whip, he is good enough. Never hit
him (or any of the others for that matter) at
any time without calling the name.
MINT AS A COMMERCIAL CROP.
“Avon” : In addition to being the princi-
pal ingredient in the sauce that goes with
lamb, mint is the plant from which is dis-
tilled peppermint oil, a flavoring essence
which Australia imports at the rate of about
£30,000 worth a year, mostly from the
U.S.A., despite a 10 per cent. duty.
For oil the varieties grown are Mentha
piperita (vulgaris), or “black mint,” which
is hardy and yields a comparatively
high percentage of oil, and Mentha piperita
( officinalis ), or “white mint,” which is more
delicate, yields less oil, but produces oil of
a higher quality.
Mint has a catholic taste in soils, thriving
on any well-drained land except heavy clay.
Chalky soils give oil of the best quality, and
on soils that promote quick growth the
quality is not so good.
American practice, which is probably better
suited to Australia than English methods, is
to prepare the land during autumn and
winter by ploughing and manuring, bringing
it to a fine tilth with harrows the following
spring, when a fertiliser of lewt. sulphate
of ammonia, 2cwt. super, and liewt. sul-
phate of potash is applied. Mint is grown
from roots, not from seed, and these, in
lengths of from Ift. to 3ft„ are laid length-
wise in furrows 3ft. apart, to form a con-
tinuous line. When the young shoots poke
up the land is carefully hoed and cultivated
until the roots have sent out so many suck-
ers that further cultivation is difficult. Free-
dom from weeds is a first essential of good-
quality oil.
The crop is harvested just before flowers
begin to appear, with sickles or scythes,
and then laid out in rows for two days to
dry. It is then ready for distillation. After
harvesting the beds are ploughed right over
to cut up the runners and cover them with
soil. A plantation lasts not more than five
years, after which the land must not again
bo used for growing mint for many years.
The yield of oil per acre is 301 b. to 40ib.,
and the price obtained varies from 15s. 6d.
to 21s. per lb. (latest quotations for Ameri-
can oil in Australia). English oil of a
very high grade commands up to 110 s. per lb.
MEASURING FOODSTUFFS.
“Y.”: In feeding concentrates to animals
or poultry, accuracy is necessary. Guess-
work—gauging quantities by so many hand-
fuls—is wasteful and unsatisfactory. This
table may help :
1 bushel = 8 gallons = 32 quarts.
1 kerosene-tin (four gallons) = half a bushel.
A box 4in. x 4in. x 44in. = 1 quart.
A box 6in. x Gin. x Bin. = 1 gallon.
A box 12in. x 12in. x 15iin. = 1 bushel.
Inside measurements are followed.
The bushel weights of various foodstuffs
and grains are:—
Wheat . . .. .. 601 b.
Maize . . . . .. 561 b.
Maize (cracked) .. 501 b.
Rye 551 b.
Peas . . . . .. 601 b.
Barley (malting) .. 46-481 b.
Barley (cape) . . .. 42-461 b.
Oats . . . . .. 40-421 b.
Linseed . . . . .. 561 b.
Desiccated grains .. 401 b.
M£dt . . .. .. 401 b.
Bran .. .. .. 201 b.
Pollard .. .. .. 201 b.
A kerosene-tin filled would be half of the
above weights.
A quart-tin filled, but not packed, would
represent one thirty-second part of a bushel
and would work out as follows: —
lb. oz, ' lb. oz.
Wheat .. .. 114 | Peas .. .. 114
Maize . . .. 112 Barley . . .. 16
Oats . . . . 14 Salt (common) . . 2 0
Bran . . . . 010 [ Pollard . . . . 010
Wheat meal .. 1 8 | Meat meal .. 18
THE CONTROL OF BITTER-PIT.
“Hatter” : Australia must rely largely on
its own investigations in dealing with bitter-
pit, since this disease is not prevalent to
any large extent among apples exported by
other countries, whereas it is the principal
defect of our fruit in the eyes of European
importers. Until lately the only helpful dis-
covery made was that heavy pruning of
susceptible varieties such as Cleos and
C.O.P.’s increased the liability of the fruit
to this disease, and the general practice
has more or less conformed to this discovery.
Bitter-pit is commonly confused with two
other diseases, viz., cork and Jonathan spet.
The classification now adopted is as follows:
Bitter-pit.—Developed in stored fruit and rarely,
if at all, on the trees.
Cork.—Developed only in fruit while on the trees.
Pour types are recognised—Blotchy, Crinkle, Internal
(known as the bitter-pit of pears) and Drought
Spot Cork or Sunburn.
Jonathan Spot.—Developed mainly after picking.
Blotchy cork causes large irregular de-
pressed areas on the surface, varying in
color but usually consisting of a green halo
surrounding dark spots. Bitter-pit develops
smaller and more regular spots, never with
a green halo and not necessarily pitted.
Jonathan spot forms blotches, which may be
larger than bitter-pit, but there is no green
halo,* and the spots do not, typically, pene-
trate the skin.
At the beginning of last season orchardists
were warned that bitter-pit occurs in apples
principally through picking before the fruit
is sufficiently mature, and that the correct
picking time for susceptible varieties can be
ascertained by a simple iodine test. The
suggestion was adopted by some Westralian
growers with good results. The sample
apples should be cut in halves across the
cheeks, and one half should be laid face down
in a shallow vessel containing the iodine
solution for half a minute. It should then
be removed and left to dry for five minutes.
If the fruit is ready to pick for cold stor-
age (assuming that they will be stored
within a few days of picking) there will be
small spots of grey or purple scattered
through the flesh, but none within the core
line. When practically no color shows, the
apple is over-mature for storing; when
relatively large patches of color show, it is
too green. The color indicates that the
starch in the fruit has not yet been con-
verted into sugar. The apple ripens from
the core outwards and the last part to ripen
is the surface towards the calyx end, remote
from the stem, where the disease usually
occurs. When there is loss of water from the
fruit, through picking too early, the sugar-
filled cells draw the water from the starch-
filled cells, which consequently die. lodine
changes the color of the starch-filled cells
to blue or purple. The formula recommended
(Continued on page SI.)


VIJLETIDE *
O N.
v
<*
GIVE
Q
an
K
PLEASE
HIM
H/M
Self Stropping in Seven Seconds
—‘Simple as Simon f
what
W/LL
MOST
fti
(\i
SP
No. 99 Set
contains ike es-
sentials for a
perfect “Valet"
Shave —■ the
razor, blade
and strop in
neat case. As
illustrated - 31-
No. 55 Model “C” Set contains
self-stropping “Valet” Razor,
three blades and leather strop. In
highly polished nickelled case with
hinged strop container and nickel-
led blade sheath, lined velvet '•"d
satin. As illustrated - ■ 1.0/•
No. 50 Nickel Set in highly pol-
ished nickel case with domed lid,
contains heavily silvered self-
stropping ‘‘Valet’’ Razor, 12
tested “Valet” blades, and strop
of selected horsehide in hinged
container. As illustrated 22/6
MANAGING AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA: PHIPSON & COMPANY, LIMITED, 181 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Sunbeam
Every Sunbeam car is individually produced. In addition
to rigid tests at every stage of production, each car is
subjected to the most searching road tests. The supremacy
of the Sunbeam name must be maintained—that is the
spirit and policy which permeates the production of
Sunbeam cars.
For the Australian market all Sunbeam cars have a standard
track, a ground clearance of 9in. at the lowest point,
special springing for comfort over all roads, and a specially
large radiator and fan to ensure adequate cooling under
all conditions.
Complete catalogue will be sent on application to any
of our authorised dealers or to the Company’s address
below:—
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.
Export Dept.: 12 Princess Street, Hanover Square, London.
W.I, England.
Cables: "SUBEAMOCO,” London.
Head Office and Works: Wolverhampton, England.
AUTHORISED DEALERS:
SYDNEY;
William, Hill & Cameron, Ltd.,
91-97 Flinders Street.
PERTH:
Arthur Bales, Ltd.,
367-S7l Murray Street,
MELBOURNE:
The All British Motor Co. (Pty.) #
Ltd.,
104-106 Russell Street,
ADELAIDE:
Raseh Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Quiet—Restful—Cool—Open to the Summer Sea Breezes. With Private Beach and Amphitheatre
Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service. Spacious Grounds and Garage
Accommodation.
Tariff from 4\ guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines).
w
PUMPS
Thousands
of Gallons
MORE
WATER
ŵ
Billabong Windmills are noted for easy running and
their quick adaptability to changing winds which
means more pumping done—now we offer you yet
another very great advantage.
A New Pump Valve
that will enable your Windmill to make much more
use of light winds and do many more hours of
pumping. Thorough tests have shown that, under
average conditions, a Billabong Windmill Plant fitted
with our New Floating Valve pumped.
50% More Water
than did the same size Billabong fitted with the
ordinary type of valve
The arrow points to the Valve.
It floats and allows the mill to start revolving without
the load, and then, automatically, the pump will
start pumping exactly the same as when fitted with
the older type of Valve
Full particulars and prices on application.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.


a
i§
fHufrßeU
FOR HIM THIS XMAS
Make your present an appreciated one—
select Club Reil Cigars, mellow and mild,
offered at special box prices. They will
be posted to any address. Mail orders
receive immediate attention.
Box of 25, 12/-
(posted, 12 7 6)
CRAIG and AITKEN
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PROVED!
Those advertisers who are in the position to
test results have proved time and again that
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE-
is definitely the finest result-getter in all Queensland.
It is more than 50 years younger than its morning contemporary.
Its circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be greater
than any other Queensland daily, and its influence and reader-value
are certainly unsurpassed.
Rate cards, specimen copies, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-94 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ri-
■
HU
l
mm
I
■HP
BIBBMii
HH ■
VO
BPP
ZA\erino "fJCnit”
SAMENO
. BRAND
MENS HALF HOSE
of;
ocks that
LOOK WELL
FIT WELL
WEAR WELL
m
QUALITY and STRENGTH
IT PAYS TO WEAR
FINE WOOL SOCKS
—NOTHING RESTS THE
FEET LIKE WOOL.
" RAMENO ” Brand
" Merino-Knit” Socks are
Unconditionally Guaranteed
Made by MERINO WOOL-
LEN MILLS PTY. LTD.,
201-203 Victoria Parade,
Collingwood, N 5, Vic., the
Specialist Manufacturing
House for Men’s High-grade
Cardigans,. Sweaters, Half
|Hose and Golf Hose.
AMENO” Brand "Merino-
Knit” Men’s Socks are flaw-
lessly knitted from the finest
Merino Wool in all the fash-
ionable colourings for present wear
—there is a shade for every suit.
The finish is as good inside as that'
outside—there are no rough edges
to chafe the feet, and the special
3-ply heels and toes give the extra
strength that is so desirable for
durable, economical wear.
R
MOST DESIRABLE SOCKS FOR MEN OF TASTE
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON’S COWBOY SADDLERY
w
WRITE FOR NEW
CATALOGUE
Showing also New
and Low-priced* Aus.
STOCK & PARK
SADDLES
Lassos braided cotton
with brass honda, 15/-
Braided linen, 40ft.,
with brass honda, 22/6
Cowboy Quirts —made of latigo leather, shot-loaded, 8/6
Fancy Breastplate —as illustrated 757-
Fancy Bridle to match breastplate, complete with gold-
color cowboy bit . 767-
Cowboy Cartridge Belts —single row, 10/6; double, 20/-
Cowboy Chaps of dark, flexible hide, with fringe . . 87/6
Cowboy Spurs gold color, with nickel horsehead, without
straps, 35/-. Straps, fancy, pair .... 7/6 and 8/6
Texas Ranger Cowboy Saddle —double-rigged, with cord
cinchas and wood stirrups £l3/18/6
Add postage to above —the saddle is freight free.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. BOX 785 G.
ŵ
m
m
1
DORIS BLUNDELL
Her mother writes :
“ I have used Rexona
Soap on my three child-
ren since birth and find
it keeps the skin and
hair in beautiful con-
dition,”
Shampoo with Rexona Soap
What a difference there is in the heads of hair
you see every day—some are wonderfully at-
tractive and becoming, while others are—just
ordinary.
Try Shampooing with Rexona Soap—you will
be surprised how lovely your hair will become,
how it will reflect all the tiny dancing lights
that give life and beauty to the hair.
You will find that in less than ten minutes you
have doubled the beauty and attractiveness of
your hair by a single shampoo with Rexona
Soap.
Price l\ * per tablet ♦
1
i
REXONA
SOAR
for Health and Beaut
y
RS9R


mM&Si
m
iJpMa m.
t; 5 !
ex
; ■<
sqh(
1 :
m
1
H
asBHI
Longer wear
An Abbey Shoe of the smartest
design, with a sole practically
double the average thickness. It is
flexible and easy-fitting built on
a special Abbey last that eliminates
tightness.
ORDER BY POST. —Full and half-sizes avail-
able in four widths—narrow, medium, wide
and extra wide. Fit is as good as made to
measure. Order, also, the correct Abbey
Preservative Polish (6d. per tin), or one
of the handy new cleaning outfits (2/6
complete).
BLACK CALF
TAN CALF
35/-
35/-
New Summer sporting catalogue post free
on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St. Sydney
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY
FPLISS
Second-hand Saddles
w
We have a few
GOOD SEC-
OND - HAND
and shop-soiled
SADDLES for
sale. So here’s
your chance while they last,
which won’t be long.
SNAP No. I—3 slightly-
used Poley Saddles, as
photograph, in perfect con-
dition ; fully mounted.
IVorth £lO, for £6/15/-
SNAP No. 2 —4 shop-soiled
Poley Saddles,' good shape,
in perfect order ; with stir-
rups, leathers and , girth. Worth
£6/10/-, for £4/15/-
SNAP No. 3—6 British Military
Saddles, unbreakable steel arch
tree, fitted up complete. Worth
£7, for £4/17/6 .
BUY NOW AT BARGAIN TIME.
JOHN BRUSH,
The Saddle Specialist,
BRISBANE, Q.: .434 Queen Street.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: 371 George Street.
Martin Ditcher
Hundreds of Australian
pastoralists and farmers are
using the Martin Ditcher for
a score of purposes. It is
the most useful farm imple-
ment ever devised, quickly
saving the cost, £35, in
speed, efficiency and wages.
'-'■n
J. B. WALLIS, LTD.,
Challis House, Martin Place,
Sydney
499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
168 Edward Street, Brisbane
T. T. B’ld’g, Light Square, Adelaide
Padbury Building, Forrest Place, Perth
B.K,
X
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
pW faf'-cleqM
A cheque is a passport to business consideration.
A cheque is a receipt in itself. The whole of the
modern fabric of trading and production is based
on cheque payments.
Get into cheque circles with a bank deposit!
Hare a Bank Account—Keep it Growing.
THE PRIMARY PRODUCERS BANK OF
AUSTRALIA, LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 12 MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY.
Branches throughout the
Common wealth and at London.
at.
-A
AUTO TENTS
Made in our own factory so that all work is guaranteed. Suitable for
camping out in conjunction with a motor-car. Fitted with wall between
tent and car. Can be rolled into small space. Bft. x Bft. x 3ft. back
wall, “A”—Special heavy calico, 67/6; “B”-—Calico front and sides,
with English duck roof, 85/-; “C”—Duck sides and front, with heavy
duck roof, 102/6. All supplied complete with necessary poles and ropes.
SPECIAL AUTO TENT “D”—Same material as our “C” tent, excepting
has extended front and back, which covers car completely in, £6/17/6.
All complete with fittings.
Goods Delivered Free on Rails or Boat, Melbourne.
MSB
,Oh& BIGGEST HARDWARE-HOUSE IN VICTORIA
(D. & W. CHANDLER, LTD.),
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, Victoria.
is four grams potassium iodide to one gram
iodine in 400 c.c. water, or, roughly, about
four crystals pot. iodide to one-quarter of
that amount of iodine in two teacups of
water. No great accuracy is necessary.
Last season the Tasmanian Department
of Agriculture, in conjunction with the
C.5.1.R., carried out a test on Cleos and
C.O.P.’s. Weekly pickings were made from
12 selected trees and . the iodine solution
was used. The fruit was stored, and eight
weeks later (June 7) all the cases were
examined with the following results: —
No. External Internal
Date of Picking. in Case. Pit. Pit.
Feb. 19 .. 178 122 14
25 .. 156 79 11
March 4 .. 151 72 17
„ 11 .. 115 52 10
„ 18 .. 135 50 19
„ 26 .. 114 43 10
April 3 .. 106 20 25
„ 8 .. 119 30 3
„ 15 .. 102 18 15
(The “internal pit” was not noticeable from
outside.)
The C.O.P.’s progressed in the same way
from a percentage of 30 per cent, bitter-pit
in the sample picked on Feb. 19 to 5 per
cent, in the last two cases. The remaining
fruit, which had not been examined, was left
for a further period of 14 days under ordi-
nary temperature conditions with interesting
results. The later pickings of Cleos still
showed up well, but nearly 50 per cent, of
the later pickings of C.O.P. had suffered from
internal breakdown.
BLACK SPOT IN APPLES.
“P. Aitch”: Black spot is causing some
concern to apple orchardists in Victoria,
and the recent rains, if followed immediately
by hot weather, are! going to aggravate the
trouble.
Lime sulphur is the remedy, and, coming in
the midst of codlin spraying, the combined
spray—lime sulphur plus arsenate of lead—
kills two birds at one shot.
But when lime sulphur is added to lead
arsenate, or vice versa, there is a certain
amount of chemical decomposition, lead sul-
phide being formed, as evidenced by the dark
color. This means that arsenic acid is lib-
erated—with the danger of “burning” and
this, under certain climatic conditions, may
become pronounced. The danger is avoided by
adding 141 b. of “fat” lime, as milk of lime,
to every gallon of lime sulphur prior to mix-
ing in the lead arsenate. With this pre-
caution the insecticide and fungicide may be
mixed with impunity.
QUEENSLAND RED GRASS.
“Bad Australian”: Messrs. Street Bros.,
of Bandiana Park, Wodonga, appear to have
discovered a very simple means of con-
trolling, if not entirely eradicating, Queens-
land red grass, a pest to n.-e. Vic. farmers
for years past. About four years ago ,an area
of five acres of second-class land badly in-
fested with the pest was fenced off and
divided into three sections. One was top-
drVssed with 2cwt. of super, per acre, another
with lewt., and a central strip was left un-
manured. Across portions of each section
subterranean-clover seed was sown. The
experimenters were unlucky in striking a
dry season in the first year, and results were
not satisfactory, but in each succeeding year
the growth of the clover has been exception-
ally vigorous and the increased growth has
at no time since been less than 100 p.c.
On the 2cwt. section the red grass has almost
entirely disappeared, while on the unmanured
portion it lias been in exclusive control,
summer and winter.
A NEW SOYA BEAN.
“W.P.D.”: Mr. R. Allsopp, officer in
charge of the Queensland Acclimatisation
Society’s * experiment station at Lawnton,
has evolved a new soya bean, the Yellow
Wonder, a sport giving, it is said, a much
heavier crop than the common Mammoth
Yellow. From a single plant 24 were raised,
and this year enough seed was won to plant
an acre. It is said to hold well in the pod,
yet it is quite easy to thresh.
At Lawnton the soya bean is planted in
alternate rows between maize; when the
maize is picked, rape is planted, and at the
right stage the whole —soya bean and rape
—is harvested by pigs. The effect of the
nitrogen left in the soil by the soya bean and
the pigs is such that the paddock is ready
to plough for the next crop.
PAPER-MULCH.
“Thorley”: It has been thought that the
higher yields and earlier maturity are pro-
duced by the paper-mulch preventing radia-
tion of heat and so keeping the soil, at a
steadier temperature. But now it is found
that when paper is used to cover the soil
for weeks or months before planting time
and not used after plants are put out, the
plants are stimulated to extra productive-
ness. It may be that plant foods are made
more readily available, or it may be that
nitrifying and other bacteria are enormously
encouraged. American asparagus growers
are finding it good practice to cover the rows
of plants with paper-mulch during the
dormant winter period, removing it before
the plants start into growth.
There is a lot of room for experiment on
every farm.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
What is thd best substitute for cow’s milk
in rearing lambs? —3656.
The best condensed-milk, boiled and
broken-down with an equal quantity of
boiled water, is suitable. Finely-ground
porridge meal may be added to the extent
of a heaped teaspoon to the half-pint.
Give the mixture warm, and feed from a
bottle with teat.
Method of eradicating saffron thistle? —
3756.
Where it is not firmly established, it
should be hand-cut, and where it is thick,
destroyed by cultivation, and, if possible, by
cropping. It is necessary to fallow before
cropping, and to work the fallows thoroughly
to destroy any plants. On grazing land the
thistles should be mown just before seeding.
Top-dressing with superphosphate, by im-
proving the growth of grass, helps to smother
the thistle and make it more palatable to
stock.
Bow to prevent white scour in calves? —
3711.
Caution should be exercised when intro-
ducing new stock. Inquiries should be made
as to where the calves were reared and as to
whether they are in good health. Introduced
stock should be kept isolated and closely
observed until they are at least three months
old. Use, only metal receptacles when feed-
ing, so that they can be thoroughly cleansed
daily by scalding. Feeding from wooden
troughs is dangerous. To prevent the calves
drinking too rapidly a number of stalls
should be erected and each calf allowed to
drink undisturbed from a separate bucket.
Feed the calf for the first fortnight three
times daily on warm unadulterated mother’s
milk (a quart each meal). For a further
week whole herd milk can be given twice
daily, the quantity being increased up to one
gallon each meal. Gradually replace by pas-
teurised skim-milk and cream substitute or
calf jelly. Two ounces of lime water to
the gallon of milk is useful, tending to neut-
ralise the acidity of the stomach’ and helping
to build up the calf. At three weeks allow
a little lucerne chaff and to 21b. crushed
oats in addition to grazing. Provide a rock-
salt lick, and at the first sign of digestive
derangement or scouring give two ounces of
castor oil. One ounce of formalin mixed
with 1£ pint of water and half a tea-
spoonful of the mixture added to the mixture
of each calf is also recommended. Exercise
discretion to determine quantity of food to
be given daily. Sweep out calf-pens daily.
Paint sides of pen and shelter-shed with
limewash and sprinkle disinfectant on floors
periodically (any of the carbolic fluid sheep-
dips diluted with water are suitable).
Immediately remove and isolate for treat-
ment or slaughter calves showing symp-
toms. Should the disease reappear thor-
oughly disinfect the pens again. When the
disease prevails the wisest plan is ' to erect
new pens with entirely new materials, at a
distance from the old pens, in such a manner
that they can easily be kept clean. Good
drainage is essential, and the sun should
reach every part of the building at some time
of the day. Immediately , remove and keep
affected calves out of the calf-paddock and
burn, deeply bury or disinfect their manure.
On farms where disease exists the necessity
of enclosing new paddocks for affected calves
is strongly advocated.
My pullets two or three months old won't
eat, pet as light as a feather, and their crops
are full of ivater. Then they die. What’s
wrong ?—3633.
They have probably been crowded together
in a small or badly ventilated house, or have
not had a large enough run. If so the
only remedy is to give them a large run on
the grass, if possible, and plenty of room in
the house with perches not less than 20iu.
apart.
(1) Can pea-fowls he reared in the same
way as turkeys? (2) What food should
they he given? (3) By what other birds
can the chickens be reared? (4) Are the
yew-tree, trefoil and sorghum dangerous to
stock? (5) Is too much common salt likely
to injure poultry?- —3741.
(1) You can proceed on the same general
lines, but you will find pea-fowls less domes-
ticated than turkeys. They insist on rambling
and cannot be confined to one spot. (2)
Very little food is required after they have
passed infancy. They provide for themselves
chiefly, given the same food as turkeys. (3)
Try a fowl of turkey hen. (4) Yes. (5)
Yes. The correct allowance is loz. to every
51b. of feed.
I want to go in for passion-fruit on the
Momington Peninsula (Vic.). Is this dis-
trict free from frost and is it possible to
grow them there? —3683.
The fruit does well in many parts of
Mornington Peninsula and is not so subject
to damage by frosts as in some other parts
of the State, but you should exercise care
in selecting a site. Write to the Depart-
ment of Agriculture, Melbourne, for its
bulletin on passion-fruit culture.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Wrasli”: From any old disused bicycle
inner tube cut a two-foot sheath and work
k as' a hand-hold over the crowbar. The
iron then will be comfortable to grip and
will not jar.
“Tumbe Munda” : If living too far from
a qualified vet. to get your horse’s teeth
inspected annually, buy a gag. and do it
yourself. Back your horse into a stall with
his head to the light. Open his mouth with
the' gag. Run your hand along his back
teeth to find if there are any sharp points
sticking up. These points may grow so long
as to pierce the opposite gum and cause great
pain. If there are sharp points, take a
pair of veterinary nippers and cut them
off. Failing the nippers use a rasp, but it
is a tedious job. Do not try to level the
tooth down flat. While you have the mouth
open have a look for small tumors, about
the size of a pigeon’s egg, in the cheek or
lip. If any are found, take a sharp pocket
knife, open the growth and squeeze with the
fingers.
“Ex-poddier”: “Yeoman” (B. 27/11/’29)
says the first milk or beestings of a cow
should not be used for separating. If the
calf be kept, the product should, however,
be given to it. Better still, if a strong, buck-
ing calf be desired, it should bo allowed to
run with the cow for about a week. The
constituents of the beestings are essential
for the well-being and vigor of the calf. If
it were not so, nature would not have pro-
vided them.
“Kell”: Bunchy-top in the banana plan-
tations of the N.S.W. North Coast reduced
the value of the crop from £450,000 to
£50,000. No cure was found, but under
regulations framed to minimise the spread
of infection the industry commenced to
rise from the ruins. Now leaf-spot has
appeared, and growers are alarmed again.
Leaf-spot is due to spores of fungus distri-
buted by the wind. The effect is most notice-
able on leaves that shield bunches of fruit
in process of maturing, for the infected
leaves wilt and expose the bananas to the
sun at a time when they most need shade.
Fruit of little marketable value is a result.
The disease has been partially investigated,
and growers want the Government to com-
plete the inquiry.


ẅ
You are on Firm Ground with the P. & C.
THE P. & C. works hand in hand with the man on the
land, From long and intimate experience it under-
stands his problems, and, because of its co-operative
basis, meets them. During dreaded times of stress policies
are kept in force, money is loaned, and the interests of its
members thus protected. Enjoy these extra benefits. Let
the P. &C. protect you without delay. Discuss the matter
with a representative or write direct for information.
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Man. Director: H. Fell
PRODUCERS S'CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
221-225 ELIZABETH STREET. SYDNEY. i
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire «
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite*
Blasting- Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety fu9o
Detonators
Cartridges
IT SELLS AT SIGHT
THE NEW
PROBATE INSURANCE!
Under ordinary conditions £lOOO Probate Insurance costs
the proposer, aged 50 years, over a period of 10 years,
£425/8/4.
The NEW PROBATE policy covers the same
risk for 10 years for £l6O.
Write Pacific Underwriters,
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
for full particulars.
.>°v
el' o^'V
,
>*S
4
%%
SMOKE-OH!
ŵ
A LITTLE DETAIL SHE’D OMITTED.
“And Elijah went up to Heaven in a chariot of fire!”
“Gee, Miss—what became of the pilot?”
“Plaintiff admitted she had been engaged to
Mark Morris, and had broken the engagement when
he lost his money.”
That’s what they call getting quickly off
the Mark.
ft ft
“A-JEW.”
Der poy studt on dcr purnink deck;
Der vlames aroundt him roared —
He laft troo der lifebeldt round his neck,
For der vessel vos insured.
“The hen had laid 350 eggs in 18 months.”
One of these liendurance tests, evidently.
¥ *
Little Miss Muffet
Sat on a tuffet,
Eating curds and whey;
But now a sheik’s caught her
She drinks bubbly water,
And cocktails have won the day.
* *
“Defendant admitted having thrown a whisky over
the plaintiff, who, he said, had called him a liar.”
A spirited reply.
* *
“An artist is not usually warlike.”—Sun.
And yet he is at all times ready to draw a
sword.
ẁ
The fisherman-tourist strolled down to the
world-famous lake. He had a split-cane rod,
90 different kinds of flies and a landing-net,
gaff, creel, waders and meerschaum pipe.
Henare, _ who tvas leaning against a flax-
bush, grinned widely in welcome.
“How’s the fishing?” inquired the
stranger? “I am—er —assured that it’s
excellent hereabouts.”
“Py korry, yes,” agreed the genial Maori.
“ ’Tis te werra place. How you fish —wit
te net or te dynamite?”
The only domestic accomplishment of some
girls appears to be pressing divorce suits.
* ft
Melbourne Herald the other day published
a big head-line: —
EVENING DRESSES TO BE WORN LONGER.
Next day it got an indignant message
asking whether it didn't think two seasons
were as much as any husband could reason-
ably' expect.
Summer is here, and lovers are once more
lying on our beaches.
* *
The college girl may top her class,
. And show a finished education;
She’s still a blob if she can’t pass
A di-vorce cross-exantination.
* *
“The P.M.-G.’s department is to co-operate in a
Learn-to-Swim drive in Melbourne.”— Herald.
Certainly few are better qualified than its
telegraph-messengers to demonstrate the
crawl.
AN I-CLIMAX.
ẃ
Poor Eve's been blamed, for lots of things,
And down the ages insult rings;
Yet women ought to treat her with com-
passion.
For when she had no clothes to don
And went about with nothing on,
She didn't know that she was in the
fashion.
DORIC.
THE PHENOMENON.
of his good fortune in winning first prize,
Mr. Burgess did not seem greatly excited. In this
respect he did not differ from most Australians of
his class.” —Daily paper.
That, said the guide, “is a memorial to
a very remarkable Australian. One day a
newspaper reporter told him he had won
£lO,OOO in an art union. Did he look up
casuallv. from his milkeart, yawn and con-
tinue his daily round? Did he tell the
reporter in a bored voice that he was utterly
indifferent to the windfall, though he took
a certain pleasure in the thought that his
SHUTTING OUT THE WORST OF IT.
TIM (after futile musical effort ): “D’ye think anybody
could, hear us?”
JIM: “Too right they could hear us! Can’t yer see all
the windows are closed?”
dear old mother would now be able to com-
plete her instalments on the Ukulele Straight
Two she was acquiring on the lay-by? He
did not. He gave one wild yell, took three
fits, burnt his milkeart, shot his horse and
departed on a glorious bender. He put no-
thing away for his old age. In six months
he was broke to the world and ruined in
health, with the result that he had to be
supported by his widowed mother till death.”
BONZO.
TEE STICKER.
She will not keep away from me
And cannot take a hint.
(The poor thing has a crooked knee
And eyes that are asquint.)
I met her once in deep despair,
And showed! her some affection,
And now she trails me everywhere —
A picture of abjection!
I’ve been quite rude, I’ve even sworn
At her—she won’t be squashed,
But comes back with a look forlorn. ...
If onhj she were washed!
I’ve even acted like a brute,
But still she hangs around.
Oh, won’t some person kindly shoot
That mongrel gutter-hound!
DORIC.
PASSION IN PARRAMATTA.
BY MALTRAYEBS CHOEMOMIEUCY.
TVith Explanatory Notes by the Author.
PART t
Archie Fitzroy gazed into the bally west.
Though he had been in Australia but two
months he recognised the approach of a
wurley [cyclone]. Leaping on to his gee-
hung [Cup horse], he galloped madly into
the little township of Parramatta.
“Save youahselves,” he cried, and racing
on to the blacks’ kammoora [camp] beyond,
budgereed [yelled] loudly: “Inyago Yukka-
inopi!” [“Run, dark brothers, death is
nigh!”] Came the wurley. One alone
stood in the street, wringing her bally hands.
“Quick,'’ cried Archie, “into my billa-
bong [bungalow].”
No sooner had they hurried to the cellar
than the wurley was on them. It was gone in
a flash, but it proved to have taken with it
the post office, the town hall, several semi-
detached villas, most of the aldermen and
the local M.L.A.
“What a mulga [mess].” cried Archie.
“I must imshi [go],” she whispered. “I
must imshi to that wowser [drug addict]
Smith. Kirribilli! How I hate him !” [Kir-
ribilli: Expression of extreme loathing.]
“Who is this man?” de-
manded Archie.
“His name,” she sighed,
“is John Smith.”
“That bunyip [blighter],”
cried Archie with scorn, "I
thought the name sounded
familiar. He is the cur re-
sponsible for the corroboree
(mail-coach hold-up] two
miles from the town coola-
bah [pub]. ~You shall not
go back to him.” He swept
her into his arms. “I will
wagga-wagga [look after]
you myself.”
“D ear, the inconveni-
ence” ....
“I ncon v e n ience ?” he
laughed. “There is nulla
nulla [none].”
He mounted his geebung,
swung her up before him,
and they rode back to his
billabong.
PART 11.
Bad John Smith was in
town. H'e had come down
the river in a leek-leek
[native canoe with a hole in
it | in search of his wombat
[bride]. Even the kangaroos
[animals something like
bally grasshoppers] hopped
away over the bingie
I plains] at his approach. He
was not merely bad ; he was
plurry [hasty]. Now as he
came to the billabong he
rammed some lubra [extra
strong tobacco] into his jum-
buck [old briar] and knocked.
“Stop,” snapped Archie,
whipping out his gunyah
[revolver].
Smith snarled; then,
stooping, jerked the mat
from under Archie’s feet. A second after
they were locked in a deadly embrace. And
then, as John was about to batter out Archie's
brains with a bradawl, a naked form leaped
iiito the room holding a budgeree [stone-
ldaded dagger] in its teeth. Now would
John Smith rue the day he had struck Belu-
gum with his wonga-wonga [raw-hide
whip]..
A brown hand rose and fell, and the bud-
geree was buried to its hilt in John’s shoul-
der blades. When Archie rose, the room was
empty save for the girl, self and corpse.
THE MIND-READER.
“I suppose you wouldn’t believe me if I
told you I can get ten pounds more
than I’m asking you for this car?”
“No, I wouldn’t. How did you guess?”
Outside in the silence sounded the plain-
tive note of a kookaburra as it swam to
its home in the mudbank.
Justice was bally well done.
It were only fair to add that the twain
heard. the topping old marriage bells jolly
soon after, and that Archie then found that
his billagong was built on the site of an
old boomerang [oil well]. Unlimited wealth
lay beneath their feet for the jolly old taking,
and they took it, what.
[the end.]


BLACK & WHITE
m
m s
i
■
i
■
fe*t
wm
wmmwm
in* wm
... i
SS
V
■
U ;ss
Xj
a
3N
■ J;:V
SCOTCH WHISKY
BOTTLED UNDER SUPERVISION OF THE COMMONWEALTH CUSTOMS.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD., 1 to 5 GROSVENOR STREET, SYDNEY.


<
: :
* vs
Hi
■ ;
<2
\
* \Xi
m
va
\ 1
il * i
K
■
* ' v-
m
.:
mm
mmm
:
K
■
■ y^m
V
.. -> ■_*’
rm
—————■—^—«i—lMp
Mi Si MBMIMpBII
.
rn
MHMMP>
!■
. . . Winning Unprecedented
Admiration and Respedt
SO universal, so uniform, so
unstinted has been the
admiration accorded the 1930
Buick that it can almost be said
that the car compels attention,
Even though to see this new
Buick is to sense its inherent
brilliance, there is an urge to
drive this car if only to match
its performance with its beauty.
On that basis thousands have
discovered that the 1930 Buick
is every bit as good as it looks.
Out of countless demon-
stration runs has come one
uniform result.. . the driver’s
expression of Buick suprem-
acy judged in terms of new,
smoother, effortless road per-
formance of safety and de-
pendability, best summed up
in the word “brilliance.”
No matter how high your
previous conception of Buick
performance, of Buick value,
you will undoubtedly revise
those standards when you see
and drive the 1930 Buick...
the finest product of a builder
whose previous productions
have maintained Buick in the
position of leadership for 26
years.
PRICES from
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR.
SERVICE EVERYWHERE.
Qon'venient payments can be arranged on the liberal G.M.A.C.
Terms Plan.
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
General Motors
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Brisbane - Sydney - Melbourne - Adelaide - Perth
BUICK.
r
1930
an
its a General Motors car
d
lance


IT ISN’T A
MAGNAVOX
IT ISN’T A
v DYNAMIC
(With a bow io Kodak)
THE ORIGINAL DYNAMIC SPEAKER
Australia’s Fastest Selling Speaker A Leader in All States
Dynamic Unit A.C. Model
£7/15/-
Dynamic Unit D.C. Model
£5/15/-
“Your Radio pleasure
depends on the Speaker
Demonstration will Convince You.
Obtainable All Radio Dealers
£
Romping kiddies\
hard on clothes.--'
MADE in a fascinating
array of dainty
designs, ‘Bo-Peep* Print is
colour-fast, laundry-proof, hard-wearing
and inexpensive. The very material for
Children’s Rompers, Frocks, Overalls, etc.
(print
Looks Qood—
is good?
for Childrens Wear.
A ’*Cf/yj/jnCQjl FABRIC .
w
‘Bo~Peep’ Print is 38 ins. wide, and is obtain-
able in many styles, designs and colourings.
Sold by leading Drapers and Stores.
Produced by the makers of “ Tricoline
—the equal to silk-
If any difficulty in obtaining, write
H. G. RANDELL,
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street, Sydney.
KHZ'S
CIDER
è
Kitz’s Sparkling Cider
The finest drink with meals, as it
aids digestion and prevents acidity.
Dr. D. T. Fernie, of London, states: —
Cider is not only the most wholesome and
hygienic of all drinks, but is a preventive
against and a remedy for
Stone, Gravel, Gout, Obesity
and Fermentative Indigestion.
Agents in all States.
HEAD OFFICE: MELBOURNE.
Pen and Picture
The
STARE
THEATRES
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
Shadow Shows
Vigorous over-acting by Vilma Banky in
the early stages nearly ruins “This Is
Heaven” (United Artists). She is a Euro-
pean alien come to join relations in New
York, and her amazement at seeing that city
suggests that she had been brought up in
a rathole. She gapes and performs like a
child at its
first panto. It
is a conception
of Europe as
H‘ o 1 lywooden
as it is laugh-
able. It is all
the more fool-
ish because in
a matter of
days Vilma is
translated into
a per fectly
sop histicated
young Ameri-
can lady. From
then on the
picture is
simple, highly
i m p r o bable,
but quite
charming. Vil-
ma, cooking
flapjacks in an
eat-house, is
employed to
do the same at
a social fair.
VILMA BANKY.
There she meets the son of the house, and,
believing he is a chauffeur, falls in love with
him. That he should fall in love with her
and become engaged to marry her is more
credible than such a stage situation usually
is, owing to the melting beauty of the
heroine. The picture has no striking artistic
merit, but Yilma Banky makes it a pleasing
entertainment.
“Words and Music” (Fox) is not a pic-
ture over which this paper feels called upon
to wax enthusiastic, despite the fact that
sundry music-hall comedians, described as
American university undergraduates, make
hoarse noises stated on the programme to be
new song hits. The screen is still a trifle
gawky and self-conscious when it essays
musical comedy, and the efforts to repro-
duce by photography the sheen and glitter of
a flesh-and-blood stage ballet only remind
The Bulletin that it owes a visit to its
oculist.
Recently The Bulletin encountered two
pictures On the one day, both of which, by a
not so very curious coincidence, dealt with the
same topic. “Lucky Star” (Fox), here to be
discussed, is an American version. The private
soldier who goes to the war and becomes
paralysed from the waist down in rescuing
the sergeant, who subsequently turns out to
be the villain, is an old familiar ; so is the
girl who, by her devotion, saves the crippled
victim of Armageddon from developing
melancholia. Another well-worn motive is
the sudden shock which enables the hero
to regain the use of his limbs, administer
a hard punch to the villain’s physiognomy,
and be left in possession of the field, with
the feminine loot thereof. There is a fresh-
ness of touch about the Fox effort, however,
which redeems it. The approach to' the
subject is largely psychological and in places
an atmosphere of pathos is engendered,
which might get the Achilles heel of even
the most sophisticated picturegoer. Charles
Farrell is the injured soldier who takes up
his abode in a cottage where he mends pots
and pans and develops such amazing mobility
in a wheeled chair that it attracts the atten-
tion of Janet Gaynor, the dirty little heroine.
That lady’s redemption from her natural
love of squalor is well done. The final scene
shows Farrell tearing across the snow in his
chair to intercept the train which is to
take Miss Gaynor away on her honeymoon
with the rascally sergeant. The invalid
chair wins, the scoundrel is discomfited, and,
Miss Gaynor having acquired a taste for
bathing, everything ends happily.
One of the most interesting Fox Movie-
tone small talks of late was a chat to the
world by King Alphonso. Surprisingly, the
Spanish potentate did not let loose a stream
of windy rhetoric on the brotherhood of
man, the unthinkability of war between
Andalusia and the Cocos Islands or even
the divine origin of sovereigns. He burst
out in halting English into a plain straight-
forward Rotarian boost of Spain as a land
offering illimitable opportunities for depriv-
ing foreign tourists of their hard-earned
boodle. He even suggested the best season
in which to enjoy the rigors of Castilian
hotel accommodation. He didn’t suggest
that the prospective visitor should take out
an extra life insurance, and he dropped in
some enthusiastic references to Spanish
trade and scenery. No leading statesman, in
a democratic country would dream of doing
such a thing. He would confine himself to
the familiar platitudes about political ideal-
ism. There is one thing about an absolute
monarch. He is in a position to regard his
country as a sort of limited liability com-
pany, with himself as chief shareholder and
managing director. As such it is not incon-
gruous for him -to cut out the cackle and
talk plain business.
In “Show Boat” (Universal) the Edna
Ferber story undergoes a change or two from
the stage version. Julie’s departure from the
Show Boat players is not on account of her
foreign strain, but because Mrs. Hawkes dis-
approves of her affection for Magnolia.
When the twain meet again after many
years, Julie, who has acquired riches and
notoriety, refuses to recognise the poverty-
stricken‘little friend of her acting days aboard
I
the Cotton Palace. The other differences of
plot no doubt permit of stronger “heart
interest,” and such bellow-dramatic touches
will probably be approved by the greater
number of picturegoers. There is excellent
photography throughout, especially, in the
river scenes. The storm during which Cap-
tain Andy gets drowned is a noteworthy
example of the movie art. An admirable bit
of comedy is furnished by Laura La Plante
and Joseph Schildkraut in their presenta-
tion of the play before the mixed white and
negro audience on the Show Boat. Their
exaggerated gestures, slow tempo of speech
and sepulchral tones caused The Bulletin
to regret the shortness of that melo-dramatic
act. All the vocal hits of the original musi-
comedy are included, and altogether the
talkie can be strongly recommended.
The Palette
George Colville recently hung 40 oil paint-
ings in his studio at the Rialto, Collins-
street, Melbourne, and the demand was brisk.
Colville never aims at anything electrically
arresting in color or construction, but his
canvases have a sincerity and repose which
make them very pleasant company to have
about the house. Mt. Pleasant, with its
purple shaded hillsides, “Sunset on the Hills ’
and “The Old Farm,” exhibit him at his
best.
A show at Grosvenor Galleries, Sydney,
seemed quite passable when The Bulletin
first looked in. This paper went back for
a second look, because a flower piece by
Lambert wasn’t there when the show opened.
It duly arrived, andi most of the rest of the
show began to look ridiculous. Yet it was
only about half finished. It is a masterly
Oit of painting, every finished item ot it
put down with fine sureness. G.. Rikard
Schjelderup hangs half a dozen pieces, a
couple of them amazingly better than most
of the work he had at the Macquarie Gal-
leries some months ago. S. Woodward
Smith, Kenneth and Olive Macqueen, and
Vida Lahey are very good in places.
John Eldershaw, of Tasmania, who
recently held a financially successful show in
Sydney, is repeating the feat with his exhi-
bition at the Fine Arts, Melbourne. Elder-
shaw’s water-colors are of very uneven
quality. In some he appears as renovator
and improver to Nature, and the patterns he
forces the lady into are not distinguished.
Where he allows her to select her own cos-
tume the result is more attractive.
Next year Sydney should see work com-
menced on the fountain given to the city
by the late J. F. Archibald to commemorate
the association of Australia and France in
the Great War. It has been designed, in
accordance with Archibald’s wish, by a
Frenchman; the sculptor, F. Sicard, was
chosen by a consulting committee that in-
cluded Goscombe John, Orpen, Reid Dick,
Lionel Lindsay and the late Frank Dicksee.
The fountain is hexagonal in shape with a
very large lower basin and smaller upper
basins, and is adorned by sculptured figures
—Apollo, Theseus destroying the Minotaur,
Diana and Pan; the Theseus in particular
Goscombe John and Reid Dick describe as
“in the fullest sense the work of a great
master.” It is hoped to obtain permission
to erect the fountain in Hyde Park. The
bronzes will be exhibited in Paris before
being shipped to Sydney.
The Inky Way
“lan C.”: For a few years the Argus was
a training school for Melb. Herald. Now
the Age has the job. Cockerill, who was
Age chief of staff and later leader-writer
before he became editor of Sydney Tele-
graph, has joined the Flinders-street even-
ing paper as a leader-writer, and meets
daily a dozen or so of the men with whom
he was formerly associated on the Syme
sheet. C. E. Sayers, who had a flutter on
Sydney Sun after being State political
roundsman for the Age, is the latest to take
a berth on the Herald.
Outstanding productions among the later
Christmas numbers are Home, Art in Aus-
tralia, 8.-P. Magazine, Australia To-day
and Adelaide Chronicle. Home is a bril-
liant piece of printing make-up in which the
dispensing of capital letters in titles is more
refreshing than it might sound. The photo-
graphs are strikingly original. Art has the
customary polish and some excellent color
reproduction. The Burns-Philp effort is
also bright; the literary pages are by E. J.
Brady and others. Australia To-day, the
Commercial Travellers’ annual, is packed
with photographs illustrative of various
aspects of Australian scenic beauty. The
Chronicle has an arresting cover, printed in
three colors, and several Australian short
stories.
“Adelaide”: An unusual libel suit was
that of a suburban resident who had been
referred to in the Adelaide News while
that city was hunting for a suspected but
elusive Allen. “Cunning Thief Takes Refuge
in House: Was it Allen?” said the headlines.
The householder, clearly indicated in the
par., claimed that he had been “injured in
his credit and reputation, exposed to public
ridicule, and placed in fear of personal vio-
lence from members of the criminal classes”;
and the Court thought it worth £75.
“P.X.”: When the Bank of N. S. Wales !
left off paying its usual dividend bonus of 2$ |
p.c. the other day the Press got the same hint |
as the rest of us that a financial storm was
threatening ; but another horrible reminder of
it dropped into just on a hundred newspaper j
offices a few days later, along with a state-
ment of the accounts of a co. that has been
for years past widely advertising a hair
elixir. They are all in as creditors, some
of them for pretty large amounts; and when
they turned to the balance-sheet and found ;
that £9638 of the co.’s own book-debts were
expected to bring in £3O, there was gloom on
many ink-stained premises. Heaven only
knows how a co. picked its debtors so badly;
even a country editor could do better than
that. But it just shows you how much easier
it is to sell goods than to get paid for them.


BY APPOINTMENT
QMfor
G©irdl©J! , s
GIN
The ingredients used in the production of
GORDON’S GIN are of the finest quality
procurable, and contain the greatest per-
centage of those important properties which
are considered by the Medical profession to
be most beneficial to the human system* It
is very highly rectified and contains no im-
purities of any kind, it is therefore very
easily digested and also aids the digestion of
other beverages with which it is mixed.
The name “ GORDON ” guarantees the very
highest standard of quality and absolute
purity ; a reputation enjoyed and jealously
guarded for over 150 years*
The Largest Gin Distillers in the World
r is
SA
Gordons
dry gin
■n|r-«rv
Si
WHITEST
PUREST
& BEST
The Heart
of a good
Cocktail
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
Business, Robbery, etc.
“FY7”: Two N.S.W. companies have been
formed to work a couple of blocks of station
properties recently purchased from the
Queensland Government. After the disas-
trous losses incurred in working these cattle
stations under State control it will be in-
teresting to see how private enterprise fares.
It is quite likely, considering the gift prices
at which they were acquired, that these hold-
ings will show a profit in their very first
season.
* ‘ * * *
“S.W.J.”: I have drunk coffee all my life
and sampled most kinds on our markets, but
the best I ever tasted was a pound of Norfolk
Island coffee received from General Parnell
when he was Commissioner. The memory of
its delicacy of flavor still haunts me, but I
haven’t the least idea where I can get any
more. It is a pity those Eden Islanders do
not appoint a mainland agent to push their
inimitable product.
* * * *
“Picker-up”: Not only are Nelson’s, of
Lancashire, installing a spinning mill at
Brisbane (B. 11/12/’29), but a big Ameri-
can hosiery firm, Julius Kayser and Co., lias
decided to make its stockings for Australian
buyers in Melbourne. Australian Knitting
Mills are behind the enterprise, with Yarra
Falls, Ltd., and the Saultwick Proprietary
also interested. The firm will be known as
Julius Kayser (Aust.).
* * * *
“W.A.G.”: “Teller” (B. 27/11/.’29) tells
how he turned down >a bank depositol-’s per-
forated penny, which afterwards came back
and got past him cut down to halfpenny
size. Much trouble would have been saved
both parties had they seen the reply to
2049, Bulletin Service Department
(8/12/’29). “Pennies,” this information
runs, “will be purchased at face value in
any condition.”
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Despite Haeckel, Holy Writ
is still the world’s best seller. Last year the
British and Foreign Bible Society alone dis-
tributed 11,399,540 copies, although Russia,
which formerly absorbed half a million annu-
ally in more than 60 languages, had been
closed to it. There are translations in 886
languages.
=Jc * * *
“Tup”: Requests for the lifting of the
Federal embargo on the export of sheep are
dropping in. The first granted was for
two rams presented by J. M. Niall to the
Gezireh research farm in the Southern
Sudan. As they were Border Leicesters, a
variety which can be obtained by the thou-
sand from Britain, there was no reason why
the embargo should apply in their case.
Application endorsed.
sj: * *
“De. O.”: Before the days of wireless
and gramophones the arrival of a piano' in
an out-back township was an event. How
times have changed was shown at an auction
sale at the Hatfield (N.S.W.) hotel; the
one local instrument was knocked down for
half a crown. The successful bidder wanted
the wooden panels for a wireless cabinet.
After stripping them off he found inside the
wreck a two-shilling piece, eight cigars and
several packets of cigarettes.
Hi. H* H* Hi
“R. Volt”: Since the installation of an air
beacon of neon light on a Sydney theatre,
the superiority of this light as a fog pene-
trator has been questioned. AVhere it scores
over its rivals is in being naturally of a red
color. A red or orange light is visible at a
much greater distance than a white one of
the same intensity. To make an ordinary
electric light red requires a screen, which
may cut off anything from a third to five-
sixths of the effective illumination. The
neon light, being a gas, which burns red
when brought into the field of a high fre-
quency current, emits 100 p.c. of its candle-
power. So cheap is it to run that German
stations don’t trouble to turn it off in the
daytime. A French pilot reported picking
up the neon tower at Croydon while 100
miles away.
* * * Ht
“U. Jack”: The dropping of the British
horse-power tax on cars ought to help J.
Bull to a bigger share of the export trade.
In one form or another the tax has been in
operation since 1903; at present the annual
license fee is £6 for a car of up to 6 h.p.
and £1 for every additional h.p. That is
practically the only reason for the develop-
ment in Britain of so many small-powered
models. It is noteworthy that Bull’s export
trade in motor-cycles, which aren’t taxed
on h.p., is in a much more flourishing con-
dition than the car trade. If, as would be
sensible, the new license fee puts cars of
up to 20 hj). or so on the minimum there’ll
be a radical change in the design of the
cheaper British cars, and Uncle Sam will
have to meet a very able competitor in the
export field.
* * * *
“Phil P.”: Amundsen did his countrymen
good service when he headed them to the
whaling wealth of the Ross Sea. The factory
ships N. T. Neilson-Alonso, Sir James
Clark Ross and C. A. Larson, with their
attendant “chasers,” are reinforced this year
by the new 19,000-tonner Kosmos, equipped
with seaplanes for spotting. In three cruises
the Neilson-Alonso has scooped 1918 whales,
worth nearly a million in oil values. The two
other ships gathered in 5000 whales. A Nor-
wegian captain, speaking after the first cruise,
mentioned that every cow-whale killed “had
young inside it; some had two, one had
seven,” and seemed to consider that at that
rate of breeding even wholesale slaughter
would not mean externiination. Nevertheless
in the heyday of American whaling, the sperm
whale was well-nigh exterminated, in 40
years, and the Arctic zones practically cleaned
up. Modern methods, if uncontrolled, will
bring about the same result much more
quickly in the Antarctic.
* * * *
“Digger”: My school-going daughter
brought home a packet of lead-pencils
prominently marked “Made in Japan.” I
started to sharpen them for her, and dis-
covered that they contained half an inch of
lead at each end. The rest of the pencil
was just plain timber.


1 !
■
T$
m
mm
2&3&H
KM
»
■
' v.; .-:v
* mm?d
. ■■:
m
i
■aft
pi
■
SS*»
■H
Hi
THESE ENCHANTING COCKTAIL GLASSES
and glass shaker are a good example of the versatility
of Stuart Crystal craftsmen. Whether you want
hand=cut glass of classic shape > or the airiest whim of
the modern designer, you will find the loveliest crystal
hears the registered name Stuart.
t
tot
English Hand=made Crystal
Obtainable wherever beautiful glass is sold
The Solution
to the Gift Problem,
and a Merry Xmas for all !
A “SPARKLET”-the very gift-appre-
ciated by everybody.
Why wonder what to give a “Sparklet”
is sure to please. It enters into the
Christmas Spirit and everyone will delight
in the delicious soda fountain drinks it
makes so quickly and easily anywhere.
“Sparklet” Syphons, Bulbs and Spare Parts are
obtainable from all leading stores, chemists, and
hardware merchants.
ICES AND ICE-CREAM SODAS.—A “Sparklet” enables you
to make delicious ice-creams in a household refrigerator. Write
for leaflet and recipes.
SYPHONS & BULBS
“C” Syphons (Quart Size), 10/6 each
“C” Bulbs 3/9
Per Box of Twelve
(Country prices slightly
higher owing to freight
charges.)
“C” Bulbs 1/11
Per Box of Six
ŵ
sk 5
A Summer holiday
of rare pleasure^
“A Thousand
Things to See and
Do.”
THERMAL MARVELS
Rotorua
LAKES AND FIORDS
Taupo
Manapouri
Waikaremoana
• Milford Sound
Dusky Sound
MOUNTAIN GRANDEUR
Mount Cook
Mount Egmont
Tasman Glacier
Franz Joseph Glacier
Tongariro Park
TOURING, CAMPING
GOLF, SWIMMING,
SAILING, FISHING,
SHOOTING
m
■llll
mm
gi* < J v y < >
mm
mm
W/M
. w&Mk
Iliil :
/w
"+ | • y'-'/iS' y
PUT
YOURSELF
HERE
The 9000 ft. high dying
volcano, Mt. Ruapehu
viewed from the new
Chateau in the Tonga*
riro National Park,
No Other Trip
Like It
Plan now to come!
“New Zealand is a wonderful country, and all that
is said about it is true,” was the comment made
by Lord Burnham, head of the British Empire
Press Delegation, in 1925. “We have been
shown such extraordinary phenomena that it is
difficult to do justice to them,” he said —yet the
envoys did not see half of the principal scenic
wonders.
However, even if a visitor has less than a week
for sightseeing he will be able to enjoy con-
veniently a great variety of beauty, for the
principal towns give easy access to many of the
world-famed localities.
Plan now to take the holiday that will give you a
complete change. Where day follows day of ideal
temperate summer weather. Where every day
brings you to fresh, famous, unforgettable scenes
that others, less fortunately located, are glad to
come from the other side of the earth to see.
Full details and information may be obtained from the following :
MELBOURNE:-Mr. H. J. Manson, Dominion Chambers, 59 William St.
SYDNEY: - Mr. W. R. Blow, London Bank Chambers, 2® Martin Place.
BRISBANE Mr. T. E. Dewar, King House, Queen Street.
ADELAIDE:—Mr. Victor H. Ryan, Director of S. Australia Tourist Bureau
PERTH:—Mr. A. S. McClintock, Queen’s Buildings, 285 Murray Street
And the offices of Messrs. Thos. Cook & Son & The Union Steamshio Co.


,4
A
y
urn
m
4
hi
'A
%
I
> /
<n
4Li?
/. .
i
S&.
X',
\ y
%
/
>4
m
m vi
«l
t -
3 SB
as
K
>€
((«
\\
r
k*
#
V
£
7N
IH
xV^
W*'
v /i
r
II FRANK
1 WHITMORE-
turn
erves another
GOOD motorist is ever equipped to meet every
emergency . . . with tools for the minor troubles of a
motor car—and refreshment for the Samaritan who helps
him with a tiring job. Adequate compensation for a good
turn by the wayside is a brimming glass of coor‘K.B.”
Always carry a bottle or two as part of your touring kit.
TOOTHS
CL &VU&
LAGER
BREWED
AND BOTTLED BY TOOTH CO. LIMITED, KENT BREWERY, SYDNEY


JIM SCOBIE’S
LIFE ON THE AUSTRALIAN TURF
By Frank Hart
(“Khedive”).
“Smith’s Weekly” (Sydney), in a
front-page review, says:—
“A book which reflects the romance
of Scobie’s rise from obscurity to
the highest plane in his profes-
sion once begun it is a book
difficult to put down.”
127 pages, 8 illustrations. Cloth
bound. Price, 5/- (posted 5/3).
Obtainable at all good booksellers or direct from
ROBERTSON & MULLENS.
LTD.,
107-09-11-13 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE.
You must try this
LIGHT BEER
RESCH’S
PILSENER
A Drink to Delight You
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Pisk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers* Compensation,
etc., etr.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Before the war the brothers Mulcahy,
who kept hotels in Perth and Fremantle,
raced two fillies, Galtee Princess and Galtee
Queen, in Perth. By an odd coincidence, a
son (Boaster) and a daughter (Ascalon)
of Galtee Princess and a son (Sion) and a
(laughter (Carnella) of Galtee Queen met,
with nine others, in a division of the Flying
Handicap at Rosehill (N.S.W.) on Satur-
day. And, to the great delight of the book-
makers, Ascalon won. Gesto and Sion, who
are fancied for the Villiers Stakes at Rand-
wick, were favorites, but neither got away
well, though Gesto was finishing strongly
on the_ outside when it was all over. It
momentarily looked as if Boaster and Asca-
lon might be first and second; the old
horse, however, weakened, and his sister
went on to win nicely from Prince Otto and
Gritall, running the seven furlongs in lmin.
26Jsec. Thirty-three to one with some
bookmakers (others did not quote her),
Ascalon returned £l5 6s. 6d. for 10s. on the
tote, with two other divs.
Jim Barden saddled up first and second,
Greenline and Raisin, in the other division.
Raisin was favorite at 7 to 2, Greenlinc
being at 8 to 1. Seven furlongs was thought
to be a bit further than the great Greenstead
galloper cares to go, ’but he was doing a bit
better than the little mare at the end. thanks
largely to Pike ; and the time —lmin. 26sec.—
shows that they didn’t loaf on the journey.
Panola was third and Crown Area a fast-
finishing fourth.
Booth, the Rosehill trainer, picked up a
double with Caravel Boy (10 to 9 on), a
slippery two-year-old who races in his own
colors, and The Banker (2 to 1), who car-
ried 9st. 51b. to a meritorious victory in the
December Handicap, Leadight being second
and Patadawn third. They were the only
favorites to win. Cool Dan (4 to 1), who
captured the Corinthian Cup, in which Ken
Austin proved that he is still the best. of
our amateur horsemen, was second favorite.
The Parramatta Mile was a good betting
race in which barrels of money went on Silver
Billy, Ruffler and Gipsy King. Ruffler did
best of the three, but the imported horse
proved no match at the weights for Linmat
(16 to 1), and Prime Don beat the rest.
Linmat’s div. (one of three) for 10s. was
£6 6s. 6d.
* * * -f
The A.J.C. has received remarkably fine
nominations for its summer meeting, which
begins at Randwick on Saturday, and the
Villiers Stakes looks a very open race. This
Page likes the Maoriland pair, Gesto (Bst.
11b.) and Crow r n Area (Bst. 111 b.), but The
Dimmer (7st. 51b.) may furnish a surprise
—he was bought by the shrewd Tindall on
the strength of his having defeated Blue
Star, of whom Tindall thought highly, and
has been going well on the track. Win or
lose the Villiers, The Dimmer ought to score
at the meeting. Fancies :
Villiers Stakes : Gesto. 1 ;„ Crown Area, 2;
The Dimmer or Black Douglas, 3.
December Nursery Handicap: Caravel
Boy.
Trial Handicap: Starlike; next, Violin
Bow.
Holiday Handicap: The Dimmer or Wed-
ding Eve; next, Baverwrack or Sunflare.
High weight Handicap: Baverwrack or
Lipari; next, Silver Billy.
The Moonee Valley (Vie.) club lias laid
down a new five-furlongs track, affording a
straight run for half the journey, a slight
curve for the next 1| furlongs, and a fur-
long dash to the winning post. Used last
Saturday for the juvenile event, it gave great
satisfaction. Extension to six furlongs is
contemplated, while 9£ furlongs races, such as
the W. S. Cox Plate, may be contested by an
initial run across the flat to a point near
the seven furlongs barrier. Secretary A. V.
Hiskens is an acknowledged authority on
racecourse-planning, his advice having been
sought and acted upon by numerous provin-
cial clubs.
Val Rose, a filly by Beau Fils, found the
new rink very much to her liking. Leading
from start to finish in the Barkoola Handi-
cap she scored by two lengths from Llamrei,
while Meadow Lea, a similar distance far-
ther back, cut Haraga out of third honors.
Haraga was on the spot throughout, and
ought to win soon. This Crowdennis gelding
belongs to R. C. Power, whose father, the
late Herbert Power, raced Savanaka, Pendil,
Wilari and a host of other celebrities. Val
Rose opened in hot demand, but at the death
knock Llamrei equalled her in favor. Llamrei
is a splendid bit of galloping stuff, but the
task of carrying 9.5 and conceding Val Rose
191 b. was beyond her. James Scobie saddled-
up A T. Craig’s Merry Jap (by Comedy
King) and C. B. Kellow’s Desert Song (by
Spearhead) for this event. Merry Jap went
out friendless and ran last. Kellow planked
a lot of money on Desert Song, bringing her
to only half a point less demand than the
joint favorites. Slow to get balanced, Desert
Song gave the leaders too long a start to have
any chance of success.
Gracwin, a three-year-old daughter of the
Magpie -stallion, Graeulus, registered a
pronounced victory in the Koombalila
Maiden Plate. She is held on lease by
W. S. Ilickenbotham, jun., son of the man
who trained Carbine. “Tim” Hicken-
THE GREAT, AUSTRALIAN SPORT—HEADIN’ ’EM.
botham suffered disappointments with Grac-
win at Geelong and Werribee some weeks
ago, but never lost faith in the filly and
backed her well on Saturday. Little A. Dew-
liurst took Gracwin to the front after cover-
ing a furlong, and she lasted out the mile
gallantly, winning by a good margin from
Wliitsome. Third money went to Warpoc,
owned by James Wilson, of Bonny Vale, who
cannot snatch a stake of any kind just now
but remains as imperturbable as ever.
Laniard, Kandala and Whitsome had turns at
favoritism. Finally Laniard (7 to 2) was
preferred to Kandala, Whitsome and Grac-
win, each at 5 to 1.
Though worth £5OO the Laluma Handicap,
for apprentice riders, produced a miserable
field of five. Lucky Card, the topweight,
firmed from 7 to 4 to 5 to 4, and Easby
(brother to Easingwold) shortened from 5
to 1 to 3 to 1, with Romany Rye at 7 to 2.
Lucky Card is a brilliant finisher, but on-
lookers on both sides of the post reckoned
that she had failed to overhaul Easby, and
the hoisting of Lucky Card’s number led
to a hostile demonstration. There were re-
newed protests when Strogoff was adjudged
to have made a dead-heat with Lady Back-
bite in the six-furlongs Kiata Handicap. It
looked a guinea to a gooseberry on the mare
having won outright. However, “S. A.
Rawdon” is a good sport, and it pleased
the .big body of punters to know that his
colors had not been relegated into second
place again. Strogoff was a hot favorite.
Lady Backbite- figured at 10 to 1.
•Flemingtpn trainer,W. Jacobsen, who will
invade Sydney for the holiday meetings,
deemed Aga Khan *to be a good thing for
the Argyle Highweiglit Handicap. With
the thumping impost of lOst. 81b.. Aga Khan
made fast play, but was supplanted in the
straight by Torlonia and Taras, the latter
scoring decisively from Strogoff’s stablemate.
Gipsy Verse had set the sport rolling by
running away with the Banyule Trial
Hurdle, carrying just under 12st. Punters
cheered her roundly. Blast fell with A.
Fullarton at the final obstacle, when second.
The jockey lost his senses for a time, but
was walking about later in the afternoon.
sj: :.k #
For Mentone'on Saturday:—
Brush Steeple: Research; next, Caesar.
Mentone Handicap: King Mart; next
Laird of Cockpen.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Fred Young (13st. an English-
man who has been toppling opponents over
consistently in Melbourne, received a dose
of his own medicine at Sydney Stadium
when he tried to wrest the Australian
heavyweight crown from George Thompson
(13st. 141 b.). Although not much of a
boxer Young can punch, and in the opening
rounds he countered Thompson’s left leads
with solid rights to the body. Pegging was
fairly level up to the end of the fifth round.
The end came abruptly in the sixth, when
Thompson let go a flying right that caught
Young flush on the jaw. The Briton went
into a tail-spin and then nose-dived to the
floor, out to the world.
* . * « #
After receiving the gold medal for the
most improved boxer during the year, at Mel-
bourne on Saturday night, Young Llevv
Edwards (9st.) proceeded to convince Tom
Moroney (Bst. 101 b.) that the honor was
well deserved. Ridiculously overmatched in
every respect, the Newcastle (N.S.W.) mid-
get did well to step along for seven rounds
with Melbourne’s idol. No one blamed
Thomas when he slid gracefully to the canvas
after receiving a particularly snappy right to
the jaw in the eighth. Llew will have to go
after bigger game in future engagements.
The Ins and Outs
“Lansdowne” : It is years since Tas. pro-
duced a player whose claims to international
class were seriously urged. Yet, curiously
enough, the Speck sent players to England
long before Queensland and Westralia were
on the cricket map at all. I remember seeing
Ken Burn in the 1890 lot. He wasn’t
exactly an outstanding batsman, but lie
was better than some of the team. In 1893,
that fine all-rounder Eady made another
from the Apple Island. Since then, except
for Burrows’s appearance in the Trial match,
it has never had a look-in. Is this the one
part of Australia where cricket and cricket-
ers have retrograded, or what is the reason?
*Ji l|c >;• *j«
“Ex-Englishman”: Tricks (B. 13/11/’29) V
“W.G.” was full of them. Murdoch
and Sam Jones were batting in a Test
match. The wicket-keeper chased a leg
bye, and the ball was morally dead in the
hands of Grace (who had moved up from
point to act for the absent ’keeper). Jones
strolled out to pat the pitch. “W.G.” put
down the wicket—“run out.” His point
was that, lie not being the real wicket-keeper,
the ball was not dead. Ilis law was O.K.
How he stood in Equity is another matter.
!J: * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: England is to have a visit
from an Indian team next season, and
already there is argument about whether
Duleepsinhji is to play for his native land or
for the country in which he has his present
abiding-place. There can be no question
about the matter if the precedents laid down
in the case of Australian players since the
days of Midwinter are to be observed. The
“Tulip” can only play for India in inter-
national matches against England, though he
may go up against his fellow-countrymen
for his university or county. Uncle Ranji
played for England, but only against Aus-
tralians. Had an Indian side come to Eng-
land in his day lie wonhl have turned out.
if claimed, with his countrymen.
* * *
“Bowen Bridge”: According to a M.L.
journal, Wellington Cricket Association had
before it lately a matter of grave import.
An umpire complained that a bowler had
come to the crease improperly dressed —was
wearing a blue suit and a bowler hat. He
was asked to take off his coat, which revealed
a blue waistcoat. Further protests disclosed
yet another blue waistcoat. That came off
too, but on his stubbornly refusing to doif
anything else he was permitted to carry on.
defiantly wearing his liard-hitter.
* * * *
“Spare Sub”. The player-writer contro-
versy has received a fresh fillip in England
through the action of the Lancashire County
Club forbidding its professionals to write
for the press on cricket matters. No action
seems to have been taken in the case of
the amateurs, though the one is as much a
nuisance as the other, in my judgment. The
club thinks the practice creates jealousy
and heartburning, and no doubt it does. One
prominent Australian player-writer must
long to kick himself every time he recalls
his summing-up of Larwood as not a fast-
bowler’s bootlace, or words to that effect.
* * * *
“Kingsland”: I am wondering how many
batsmen have made two separate centuries
in one day. The query arises out of the
story of a match in England, in which the
Oxford Authentics went up against a Hamp-
shire club entitled “The Grange.” The
“Tics” are a pretty hot lot, including, as
they do, the best part of the Dark Blue
Eleven. They put up a huge score in the
first day of the match, and one Atkinson,
going in on the first innings of “Grange,”
scored 114. His side had to follow on, and
Atkinson’s second shot was 107.
* * * *
“W. G. Snort”: Some of these hierophants
who hold forth on cricket in the daily press,
know when to change the subject. One
Sydney journal, which has long been fore-
most in ballyhooing “promising” batsmen,
resolved for a change to discover a promising
bowler. Promptly a lad was produced from
a country district, and announced as possibly
the greatest since C. T. B. Turner, or some
other legendary deity. Tried in a compara-
tively unimportant match he proved just an
ordinary club, medium-paced bowler, a
variety in which the country is rich to super-
fluity. Immediately the journal fell into a
cataleptic silence, which it has maintained
ever since.
* * * *
“Muckadilla Mick”: Whatever may be
said of the country press, no one will deny that
its compositors sometimes add to the gaiety
of nations. That is why in our township
of Baudyandy lately our star cricketer fought
15 rounds in the main street, regardless of
the bullock-waggon traffic, with the type-
setter of the Bandyandy Bugle. It rose
out of the report of a cricket match against
the neighboring centre of Headinem. Our
local Kippax stopped one in the bread
basket early in the game, and had to be carried
into the pub. That w 7 as all right, but when
the Bugle announced next week that he
had “retired wet” the dogs of war were
flung to the breeze, so to speak.
(Continued on page Jfl.)
“Pony”: The bigger they are the harder
they fall. In the U.S. tennis championships
Tamio Abe, a Japanese five feet high, was
stacked up against Georgios Pappadolopoulu,
who, in addition to his terrifying name, is
6ft. Sin. tall. The midget won in three
straight sets. All the same, if it came to a
match at selling fish my money would go on
Geo. Pap.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Up here in Queensland we are
laughing at the skite of the Victorians be-
cause one of their homer-pigeons flew at
74 m.p.h. from Coonamble (N.S.W.) to
Melbourne (B. 27/11/'29). The other day
four Brisbane birds flew from the metropolis
to Cloncurry, in north-west Queensland, and
averaged over 90 m.p.h. for over double the
distance flown by the Melbourne fowl. They
weren’t even pigeons either, but black Orping-
ton roosters. The fact that they flew in
a Qantas ’plane seems quite beside the
question when it comes to arguing about
records.
* :|: * *
The Kangaroos had a change of luck in
Britain last week, winning both their games.
The first was a propaganda match played
at Cardiff, a strong Rugby Union centre,
against a “'Combined Counties” side drawn
from Welsh players attached to the Lan-
cashire and Yorkshire clubs. The visitors
won this game by 39 to 9 before a crowd of
under 3000. Going back to the north again
they met St. Helens Recreation on the
Saturday, and won by 22 (6 tries and 2
goals) to 8 (a goal and two tries). The
cabled report states that though the +acties
of the home forwards were unnecessarily
rough, the Australian vanguard met them
“with equally stern measures.”
SO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.)
As sighs the lover for his lass
As sobs the sozzled for his cray;
As moans the member for the pass
He lost on last election day:
As pines the poet for a cheque ;
As shrieks the cuckold for divorce;
As craves the card-sharp for a “deck”
When mugs are gathered round in force;
As waits the “pirate” for a. wink;
As prays the penitent for grace;
As burns the angry boot to sink
In some detestable, soft place;
As pleads the beggar for his boon;
As aches the stomach for its dinner;
As yells the youngster for the moon,
So do I yearn to pick a winner!
VICTORIA.
MAOESS.


YOU
PAY NO
MORE
r
>r.
IYREWDBES
Made in Australia,
than for any oilier make
Remember this when you buy a
tyre. Remember, that in both
tread and tyre body. . . .the two
main parts of a tyre. the
superiority of Goodyear Tyres
can be demonstrated, and is proved
by the fact that more people, the
world over, ride on Goodyear
Tyres than on any other make.
And remember, always, that
Goodyear Tyres and Tubes, made
in Australia, cost no more than
any other make.
ASK YOUR GOODYEAR DIALER TOR A DEMONSTRATION ON HIS SUPERTWIST CORD MACHINE -


ANByY
As °* etv^ Y ®
» ***L * r
*»?:,,V**,„a v " s
»C
\tvte
lc ~\***
4e "...
r<l&„ v .- tf
X etfff
„ «|OSSfVSf
Will fully inflate the average motor-
tyre in one minute.
A ,the
RENRUTA
QUADRUPLE
HAND PUMP
Price , 45/- /
(TFifft Gauge, /
51- extra.)
If unable to obtain,
write to our Factory
Representative;
JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Mel-
bourne, Australia.
THE WATCH
AN R. J. A !
SUPERB!
Here is a watch which will give reliable
service and pleasant recollections of the
giver for all time. the watch which has
the official endorsement of the Retailer
Jewellers' Association.
Ask any Jeweller to show you an
9
R. cJ . A
LE V E R
THE QUALITY WATCH
<SE(?T Vou Batted vet ?
6>brt" !m out)'
<S\ERT f, BovJLED out V*
£>ERT ' Mo, counted out .
The Ins and Outs
The trial match between two Australian
teams on Sydney Cricket Ground ended on
an unexpectedly exciting note. Following
on, Woodfull’s side ran, to 541 in the second
knock, thanks chiefly to fine innings by
Bradman (225) and Ivippax (170). Grim-
met had a field day, and, in spite of the
big score, ended with 7 wickets for 173.
Ryder, with the object of giving his new
hands an open go, reversed his batting order.
The wicket had developed a patch, however,
and so well did Blackie (3-65) and Horni-
brook (4-67) bowl that the batting side lost
9 wickets in getting the 188 runs necessary
to win, McCabe (46) being the highest
scorer.
* * *
“Tenth, Slip” : With the conclusion of the
trial match in Sydney, the tests for the
personnel of the next Australian Eleven
will now be confined to the next two or
three Sheffield Shield matches. On the trial
form, it is fairly easy to forecast most of
the certainties. Unless Ponsford goes all
to pieces, he must be included with Ryder,
Woodfull and Blackie in the Victorian con-
tingent. Oxenham and Ilornibrook are the
best of good things in the Queensland sec-
tion, while N.S.W. should supply Jackson,
Bradman, Oldfield and Ivippax. Grimmett,
Wall, and the brilliant young stumper
Walker, loom good among the Wheatfielders.
Others in the running are Marks, McCabe,
Fairfax and Whitfield. A recovery of his
old form in the forthcoming Sheffields may
give that great player Victor Richardson a
fighting chance.
* !|! * *
“Statist” : The Australian first-class avei’-
ages up to the, end of the big match at Syd-
ney show Don Bradman at the head of the
batting list with 124 for 5 innings and an
aggregate of 620. Jackson (100.20) and
Kippax (98.33) follow. Oxenham is fourth
with 68.00 for 6 innings, while Woodfull
leads the Victorians with 59.66. Whitfield
is the best of the South Australians with
30.00. In bowling, Oxenham has taken 19
wickets for 17.52 each, Grimmett, with the
same number of wickets, averaging 23.05. The
two fast bowlers, Wall and Alexander, have
averages which would look splendid in the
batting list.
* * * *
“Popping Crease”: In spite of reports to
the contrary, the Board of Control has
announced that it will send only 15 players
to England, instead of 16. Probably the
board has an eye to economy, and may thus
kill two birds with one stone. Young
a’Beckett, of Victoria, who played in two
Tests last year, and is in the running for
the coming tour, will be up at Oxford next
summer. necessary, the board can claim
his services, as was done in the case of
Cantab Sammy Woods. It would thus
have the spare man on the spot, and save all
the expense of dispatching and maintaining
him.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Having resolved to continue
the use of the larger wicket in county
matches, the Marylebone C.C. has asked the
Australian Board 'of Control to consent to
its use in the matches between the Austra-
lian Eleven and the Counties next year. It
is also suggested that if the players are
satisfied with the experiment in the county
games, they should agree to adopt the inno-
vation for the Tests. As a matter of fact,
the larger wicket seems to have made very
little difference. At the same time it is a
manifest absurdity to go on playing the
game under differing sets of rules, and the
sooner uniformity is arrived at the better.
* * * *
“Hotham” : The treasurer’s report to the
monthly meeting of the Victorian Cricket
Association shows that Maoriland cricket
got a nice little cheque out of the match
between the State and Gilligan’s team. The
total profit was £993, and of that the
Dominion authorities got £745. By the time
the cash comes in from the gates at Adelaide,
Sydney and Brisbane, where attendances
were first-class, the wolf that has been yowl-
ing on the M:L. cricket doorstep for years
will have to find another job.
* * . * *
The death of C. I. Thornton removes from
the world of cricket its most picturesque per-
sonality since W. G. Grace. Big and burly
C.I.T. was a mighty hitter, and some marvel-
lous legends are extant of liis prowess in that
respect for Cambridge, Kent and Middlesex.
He is credited with one smite of 160 yards
from hit to pitch at Lords, and at one time
or another landed the ball out of every big
ground in England. In a day when headgear
was a respected convention, Thornton never
wore a hat or cap while playing, and was
equally intolerant of pads or gloves. Australian
teams will remember him with affection as
host and organiser of the Scarborough Fes-
tival, a match that invariably ended their
tour to England. He was 79 at stumps.
* * * *
“W. G., Snort”: It was bound to come.
The Queensland Women’s Cricket Associa-
tion, which has 16 affiliated clubs in its first
year of existence, has joined with its N.S.W.
sister in advocating an Australian Board of
Control, and the remaining State associa-
tions are being rounded up. The next step of
courhe will be the institution of a Sheffield
Shield for Shielas competition, and after that
the inauguration of international visits. It
is to be hoped when the day comes that
the Board of Controllesses will not imitate
its hardhearted male contemporary and forbid
the playerettes to take their husbands on tour
with them.
Racquet and Bawl
“Hotham”: The Victorian tennis cham-
pionships have once more gone to N.S.W.
players. Jack Crawford was called on to meet
Hopman in the final of the singles, the latter
having a walk-over from Jim Willard, who
was absent through injury. Hopman, who
has been showing good form, ran the winner
to five sets. The two had little trouble in
retaining the doubles title, outing J. B.
Hawkes and O’Hara Wood in three straight
sets. Miss Cox repeated her victory of last
year in the women’s singles, . after a . tough
fight with the South Australienne Kitty le
Mesurier.
* * * *
“Kooyong”: Though nothing definite will
be known until after the Australian cham-
pionships, the Davis Cup team, which is
to leave about the middle of March, has
Seen practically narrowed down to 8 or 10
aspirants. The accident to Jim Willard is
not likely to prove serious, and he may get
his long-deferred chance. , Much is being
made in Melbourne of the recent form shown
by J. B. Hawkes, but Hawkes has yet to
prove himself a stayer in a hard. game.. His
chief claim to consideration is his ability as
a doubles player with O’Hara Wood. As
Crawford and Hopman made hacks of the
pair in the Victorian doubles final, it may
be safely said that they will not he called
upon.
$ * * $
“Budge”: After seeing all the tennis at
the recent Victorian championships I would
select Crawford, Hawkes, Hopman and Wil-
lard for our Davis Cup team. My doubles
pair would be Hawkes and Willard —two
sound tacticians who possess experience and
stamina. Crawford would be my No. 1 man
in singles, and Hopman No. 2. As soon
as the former shakes off that tired feeling
he will be in the world-beating class.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Some inspired ass
has come. forward with a suggestion that
inter-State hard-court tennis matches on the
lines of the Sheffield Shield cricket com-
petition should be instituted. It is to be
hoped that the appeal will fall on deaf ears.
As matters are at present it takes some of
our leading amateurs all their time to
scoot about the country playing tennis, with
the result that earning a living is quite out
of the question. That does not matter much,
since they are obviously either persons with
considerable private means or, like those
interesting vegetables known as epiphytes,
they can live entirely on air. There seems
no 'possibility of these people cramming more
tennis into their span on earth.
The Watermen
“Swivel”: The N.S.W. rowing authorities
have decided to follow the example of the
other States and fix the minimum weight
for a four-oar cox at 7st. Previously the
practice had been to put the tiniest brat
accessible into the responsible position, with
much resultant heart-burning among the
oarsmen. Bad steering has lost a lot of
races at one time or another, and some time
ago the minimum weight of a cox for the
eights was raised to Bst. This permits the
employment of a maturer individual, and in
a job where concentration and cool judg-
ment is essential that is all to the good.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: The British rowing world
has been stirred to its depths at the news
that the Oxford and Cambridge boat race
has been postponed to April 12, or nearly
a month after the close of the Lent term at
Oxford. This means that the Dark Blue
crew will have to stay up for a fortnight
before shifting to London for the final pre-
paration on the Thames. Oxford has
mighty hopes of breaking the Light Blues’
long run of success since the war. The two
crews boated in the recent trials contain a
fair sprinkling of Antipodeans, including
Dutton, from Adelaide ; Ingles, of Tasmania,
who was No. 8 in last year’s crew; and Platt
Mills, from Maoriland.
* * * *
“Shell”: After many attempts to entice
Major Goodsell, once an Australian but
now an American citizen, to London for
a match on the Thames, Bert Barry, the
world’s champion sculler, has contracted to
meet Alf Burns, the N.S.W. Northern Rivers
champion, in London in June next. Burns
is a hefty sculler, but on all the form he has
shown to date he should be no great trouble
to the who has all his famous
uncle’s skill with a bit more weight and
muscle behind it. In the meantime, money
for Burns’s expenses is being asked for. It
is some time since an Australian figured in an
event which for many years was an Aus-
tralian monopoly. Burns should be given a
chance to prove himself.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger” : As a golfer Bronson has
always been noted for a tendency to give
undue vent to his emotions under stress. He
was all square in the monthly medal com-
petition at the Gumnut Club recently, and
played a beautiful wood off! the tee for the
18th, while his opponent landed in the rough.
However, when Bronson followed up his drive
he found his ball some two feet down a
newly-made rabbit burrow. As he stood
regarding it speechlessly, his caddie took a
risk. “Try yer niblick, Mister?” he piped.
“Niblick!” cried the maddened Bronson,
hurling his driver into space. “Niblick! No,
blast you! Give me a ferret!”
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: The annual report of the
Ivogarah Golf Club, which is situated in the
middle of Moorefield racecourse in the back-
blocks of Sydney, is a reminder. Is there any
other club employing waste land of the kind
in similar fashion in Australia? The race-
course at the Gezireh, over the Nile from
Cairo proper, contains a capital nine-hole
course, but I have never come across one
anywhere else. In these days, when public
golf courses are so urgently called for and so
few iu number, what’s the matter with
making it contingent on the granting of a
license to a race club that a golf course be
laid down in the middle of the ring?
* * *
“Hotham” : A novel application was made
to the Victorian Lands Department the
other day, when a lease of a section of the old
Yarra wharves was granted to a local citizen
who intends to use it as a putting-green with,
of course, a refreshment kiosk attached. The
river frontage is some 700 ft. from Queen’s
Bridge, taking in most of the space where
the Tassy steamers used to tie up. The ven-
ture should be a howling success. In Lon-
don and other great cities of Britain, put-
ting-greens of the sort are dotted down in
every available corner, and are heavily
patronised, especially by the lunch-hour
crowds.
# * * *
“Peebles”: I tried “The McHaggis” idea
(P». 13/11/’29) with a wooden tee and a
piece of string. Please ask him the length
of the string, because when I gave the ball
a swipe the tee rose like a bird, then changed
its mind, and affectionately encircled my
neck twice, finally coming to rest in my left
eye. I’ll try anything once, even “The McHag-
gis,” but I object to the caddies calling my
black eye “the McHaggis trade-mark.”
i'fi * ❖
“Mid Iron”: Leo Diegel, the American
freak-golfer, has won the professional cham-
pionship of his country for the second year
in succession. It was a creditable win, too,
for among his opponents were Walter Hagen
and Tommy Farrell, both previous holders
of the title. Diegel met them both, outing
Hagen in the semi-final by 3 and 2, and doing
the same for Farrell n the final by 6 and 4
—a convincing hiding.
:]c X * *
“Plus Forty-four” : Playing at Elsternwick
(Vic.) public links I was approached by a
small urchin holding two brand-new balls of
a superior make, which he offered to me at
the ridiculous price of one and six. Know-
ing the habit of these small fry of stamping
balls into the ground and then offering to
hunt for them, I inquired suspiciously where
he had picked them up. “I didn’t pick
them up, Mister,” was his ingenuous reply;
“my father plays golf.” I am afraid the
little moral lecture I gave the youth had
little effect, as I saw a successful sale
effected a few minutes later.
* * * *
“Slow Back”: A youngster who gives
promise of swinging a dirty club in the days
to come is the 14-year-old Sydney Grammar
boy Jim Ferrier, son of J. B, Ferrier,
secretary of Manly Golf Club. A big lad,
and well coached by his dad, his putting is
an object-lesson to his elders. li'e drives
well, but is a trifle backward in his play
through the green. The fact that he is not
by any means a stylist is the most promising
thing about him. His swing and stance has
been criticised and other faults have been
found with him by the 19th-hole critics.
The fact remains that there has never been
a great golfer yet who has not departed
from the normal in his game, and that holds
true from “Old Tom” Morris through Harry
Vardon down to Bohby Jones and Walter
Hagen. Diegel, winner of this year’s Ameri-
can open championship, fractures every canon
of golf whenever he walks on to the tee.
* * * *
“Cleek”: The first open championship
staged by the recently formed Sydney Uni-
versity Golf Club was played last week. It
was a stroke play event over 36 holes held at
Bonnie Doon, and was won by Nigel Smith,
who returned cards of 78-79. The event was
open to graduates of any university, by
next season golfers may expect to see an
annual contest staged between the universi-
ties of different States on the lines of the
Oxford-Cambridge meeting, for which a full
Blue is granted nowadays.
(Continued on next page.)


Monday to Friday,
A la Carte Dining and Supper
Service.
Minimum charge 7/6. Dancing till
1 a.m. Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY LATE GALA NIGHT.
Special Table d’hote Dinner, 217-
Special Supper from 10 o’clock,
12/6; or a la Carte, minimum, 12/6
Afternoon Tea Dansant—
Monday to Friday, 3.30 to 5.30, 2/6
Saturday, 4/-
’Phone M4l 3 1 for your reservation.
I
m
m
A SK for BolsVery Old Holland
Gin in the STONE Bottle,
or Bols Silver Cap Dry Gin in
the Square Glass Bottle with
the Green Label.
11l
liiSSi
51QU
ẃ
5>
m
s
m
y
«8
Cars
Kept
Beautiful with
SIMONIZ are
Always Beautiful
Everywhere you go you see thousands of
beautiful cars —kept so by Simonizing—and
many of them are two and three years old.
Simoniz solves the problem of keeping cars
new and beautiful, as well as making the
finish last longer and keeping the colors
from fading.
In fact, Simoniz and Simoniz Kleener are
regarded as almost indispensable in the care
of Duco and lacquers, for they make it
possible to retain the lustre and beauty of
these motor-car finishes for years.
There is no excuse for anyone driving a
cloudy and dull-looking car, for it is so easy
to get wonderful, lasting results with Simoniz
and Simoniz Kleener. Simoniz Kleener
quickly restores the lustre and color by
removing all grime, discolorations and blem-
ishes. Then Simoniz gives lasting beauty
and weatherproof protection.
The sooner you Simoniz your" car the better.
NEW OARS should always be Simonized.
Insist on Simoniz and Simoniz Kleener —•
they make the finish last longer.
MOTORISTS WISE SIMONIZ.
Sold by all Good Motor Houses, Service Stations and
Hardware Stores at 2/9 Small Cans; 5/6 Large Cans.
In case you cannot obtain locally, see note below.
M
A
D
E
I
N
A
U
S
T
R
A
L
I
A
1
r. tnw ,
MMt
oives h
Iffclgify r v
ANOTHER WONDERFUL
SIMONIZ PRODUCT—
SIMONIZ
PENETRATING
GRAPHITE
OIL
"LOOSENS THE TIGHTEST
NUT”
Simoniz Penetrating
Graphite Oil instantly
DISSOLVES RUST,
LUBRICATES CAR
SPRINGS,
STOPS CHASSIS
AND
BODY SQUEAKS,
FREES GUMMED
MOTOR VALVES,
LOOSENS ALL
TIGHT NUTS AND
BOLTS.
Sold in handy Boz. can
with long spout. Price,
2/9. IF YOU CANNOT
OBTAIN SIMONIZ PRO-
DUCTS FROM YOUR
USUAL DEALER, SEND
POSTAL-NOTE TO
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS,
MOTORITE EQUIPMENTS PTY., LTD.,
Carlton, Melbourne.
FREE SAMPLES
OP SIMONIZ AND
KLEENER ON REQUEST.
7T
-Que
AM
Apply with a cloth
Car and Cycle
“H’otham”: Road congestion round Mel-
bourne is against the holding of races on
the large-scale European plan, and, save for
the annual Phillip Island event, speed con-
tests in the open are not common in the
Cabbage Garden. A lot of interest was
taken in the annual contest on a road cir-
cuit of a little over two miles on private
land at Dromana, when 38 cars took part.
The contest was divided into 10 sections,
according to cylinder capacity, and was
necessarily broken up into single-handed
r.uns against time. Trophies were awarded
for the best performers on formula and
for the best times. A lap record for the six
fastest cars of the day was the concluding
event, and was won by H. Cooper in a
Ballot car, his time being 2min. 5 3-ssee.
for the circuit, or 3-ssec. better than the
standing figures.
* * * *
“Tractor”: There is a quite a sporting
flavor in the recent performance of a Vic-
torian motor-lorry. The Tas. mail for Britain
was too late to catch the overland express
delivery for Perth. Half an hour after the
train had left, the lorry shipped the mails
at the wharf and went in pursuit of the train.
The latter was headed off at Ballarat, the
lorry having picked up over half an hour on
the steam-driven contraption in 75 miles or
thereabouts.
* * * *
“Formula” : The very last of the N.S.W.
Automobile Club’s trials for the season con-
sisted in the short run, from Sydney to
Cattai Creek, when cars were tested for
reliability, flexibility and petrol consump-
tion. There were five classes, the last for
super-charfeds, and in this the victory of
Mrs. J. A. S. Jones in her Alfa Romeo was
a popular one. Of the 35 entrants, only
one car missed full marks for reliability.
Three took full points for petrol consump-
tion. The best all-round performance of the
meeting, perhaps, was that of A. W. Turner’s
Willys-Knight in the over-4000-c.c. class, the
lug car scoring 248.15 out of a possible 250,
including 100 p.c. in the flexibility test, in
which many contestants failed.
* * * *
“Garry”: More than the usual amount of
“hush hush” surrounds the Sunbeam car
Silver Bullet, built for Kaye Don. It is
very powerfully-engined—the two 12-cyl. V-
type Sunbeam-Tiger motors set tandem-wise
in front of t.he driver are credited with a
developing h.p. of 4000 “at maximum revs.,”
but that isn’t very informative. The Napier
aero engine in Segrave’s Golden Arrow was
labelled 900 h.p., but its R.A.C. rating was
only 145 and its b.h.p output at top speed
must have been well over a thousand. The
Bullet has 36in. wheels —the Arrow’s wheels
were 37in., Iveech’s Triplex’s 46in., and
the Blue Bird’s 35in.—-and the cock-
pit is so small that before Don can
wriggle himself in between the two driv-
ing-shafts, with the back axle a couple
of inches from his spine, he will have to
detach the steering-wheel. The radiators are
at the sides, set between front and rear
wheels, and the car, which of course has
no protruding top-hamper, stands 4ft. high.
HUNTER WHITE, member of an histori-
cal W.N.W. racing and thoroughbred-
breeding family, who has a lot of good
young stock coming on.
If it really is three times as powerful as the
Arrow, and doesn’t knock chunks off
Segrave’s record, that will be the end of try-
ing to increase .speed by piling on the engine-
power.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: People have been wondering
why there has been such a delay in the
appearance on the Sydney tracks of Cecil
Walker, who is regarded in America and
Europe as one of the finest professional
wheelmen living. It was due to the Aus-
tralian’s modesty. When he came back to
Sydney he asked such terms from the tin
gods of professional cycling that their hair
turned white in a single night. After weeks
of barging, Cecil one day produced a ticket
for San Francisco, and the entrepreneurs
capitulated. He is now booked up for the
Velodrome circuit and will probably give
local riders something to think about. All
the same, there should be some fur flying
if “Fatty” Lamb and Hubert Opperman,
the latter at present in M.L., come into
competition with him in the new year.
H: Ht ❖ *
“Whizz”: Mat Engel, the German cyclist,
put up a fine performance in Brisbane the
other night when he rode 5 miles in 9min.
BILLY DUNCAN, the famous Victorian
jockey, whose terrible smash at a recent
Melbourne meeting has probably put
him out of the game for life.
47sec., two-fiftlis of a second better than
his own previous figures for the distance on
the same track, and an Australian record.
He rode in a strong field, including the
Danish flier Falck Hansen, and this pro-
bably accounts for the feat. It puts in the
shade, too, the official world’s record for
the distance from a standing start unpaced,
the lOmin. 11 l-ssec. put up by E. Meyer
in America as long ago as 1909.
Miscellaneous
“Kelly” : Other folk may have their Der-
bies and Test matches ; Tasmania thrills at
the mention of wood-chopping. The Axe-
men’s Carnival lately concluded at Ulver-
stone was an orgy of chopping which, it is
calculated, supplied enough chips to light all
the kitchen fires in Tasmania for a twelve-
month. The two star events were the
Braddon double-sawing championship and
the chop for the Hopetoun Cup. The first
was won by H. Hanson and G. Eaves, who
bisected their log in 14 4-ssec., world’s
record time; the Cup, a standing chop at
15in. diameter blocks, went to R. Radford,
who took only four-fifths of a second over
the minute. Radford, who also won the
event in 1926, beat a strong field which
included several competitors from Maoriland.
* Hi *
“Hamilton”: Brisbane will be given over
to open-boat sailing next month, when the
Australian championships for the 18- and 16-
footers will be held there. Every State will
be represented in the 18’s with the exception
of Victoria, but N.S.W. has decided to send
only two official entries from Port Jackson.
At the same time ; any owner enthusiastic
enough to take his craft and crew up to
Brisbane on his own account is cordially
invited by the Sydney sailing authorities to
do so, and dash the expense. Only Queens-
land, Westralia and N.S.W. will compete for
the 16’s title, but N.S.W. will have seven
representatives. Westralia, holder of the
title, is sending two craft, in spite of the
distance, one being last year’s winner,
Verona.
* * * *
“Rottnest”: A quaint incident marked
the recent trial races on the Swan River
to select the Westralian representatives in
the 16ft. sailiiig-skiff championships in Bris-
bane. Gloaming, one of the selected candi-
dates, was rounding a mark, when she col-
lided with Cornstalk 11. One of the crew
of the latter jumped overboard, and, climb-
ing on to Gloaming, shinned up the mast
and did his best to pull the boat over—w.
task akin to lifting oneself up by one’s
bootstraps. He was promptly hauled down
and chucked overboard, to be rescued by his
mates.
* * * *
“Kelson”: Victoria has formally chal-
lenged for the Sayonara Cup, which will be
sailed for outside Sydney Heads in January.
The cup goes to the winner of # three of five
races over a 20-miles triangular course, the
first race being set down for January 16. The
challenger is Acrospire IV., a new nine-metre
craft which has been specially built to regain
the pot from N.S.W., which won last year
with Vanessa. The Victorian flier will make
her debut in N.S.W. waters at the Pittwater
regatta. Her owners have adopted the
Bermuda rig, and she will be the flrst Cup
contender from Port Phillip to dispense with
the gaff topsail.
* * * *
“Outboard”: A new Australian speed-boat
record went up on Botany Bay the other
day, when J. P. McNamara’s Eagle got
over a measured mile in 58 l-ssee., 62.07
m.p.h. The same craft won two races in
the afternoon, averaging 48.05 m.p.h. over
a 10-mile course, and 53 m.p.h. over 6
miles in a handicap event won off scratch
by lOsec.
* * * *
“Old Q”: The threatened return of the
Brisbane Rugby League to the Union 'fold
(B. 11/12/’29) has rocked the N.S.W. pro-
fessional body to its bootheels. On receiving
the news last week that the leading B.R.L.
clubs had agreed to their executive’s pro-
posal, the N.S.W. League loaded half a dozen
of its officials on to the mail train and
dispatched them with orders to return with
the scalp of the B.R.L. if possible, but at
any rate with some guarantee of having
averted the impending catastrophe. What
would happen in the other alternative was
not stated, but there is a rumor that one or
two of the delegation have been overheard
discussing the advisability of settling down in
Queensland in preference to returning to
Sydney.
* * * *
A. C. L. Irving’s resignation from the
N.S.W. Rugby Union Referees’ Association
is a genuine loss to the amateur code, for he
was that rare bird an almost ideal Rugby
referee, having achieved a reputation in that
respect only equalled in Australia by the
late Jim Macmananamey. He did more to
speed up the game in N.S.W. than any ref.
of his time, and was merciless to any player
prone to “point” on the rules. The wing-
forward was his particular bete noir, and
though the M.L. players had every confidence
in his integrity they never quite relished the
prospect of having him in command of the
whistle.
* # * *
“Birkenhead Park”: The annual Rugby
match between Oxford and Cambridge,
played on the E.R.U. ground at Twicken-
ham last week, ended in an unexpected win
for Oxford, which triumphed by three tries
(9 points) to nil. For many years.past the
night of the match has been one of license
for the teams, and this year the theatre and
restaurant cliuckers-out earned their money.
The cables record indignant protests in the
English press, but it is doubtful if the great
heart of London does not appreciate and
approve of the annual show on these occa-
sions—there is nothing quite like it to be
seen anywhere else.
❖ sjc
“The Gaffer”: N.S.W. and Victoria are
again at their perennial pastime of making
faces at each other. This time the athletic
authorities of the unsisterly States are con-
cerned, the fuss relating to the proposed visit
of the American athletes Osborne and Lear-
mond and the German Dr. Peltzer. Victoria is
handling the tour, and has told N.S.W. that
if it wants the party to show in Sydney a
guarantee of £2OO must be found, together
with a promise to pay half the visitors’ fares
to Australia, and all exes, while in N.S.W.
Ma State has contumeliously refused, and
about the only chance the Sydney public will
have of . seeing the overseas cracks will be
at the State championships in February.
Victoria cannot prevent them appearing if
they choose to run.
H« He sfc *•
“Long Rest” : The public is disappointed
nowadays if Walter Lindrum goes to the
table without scoring four figures. Starting
another match against Smith the other day,
he knocked up his twentieth thousand since
landing in England. It is a pity that some
other opponent than Smith or McConachy
cannot be found for him. Great players as
the trio are, the continual games between the
Australian and the Englishman are getting
a little monotonous. McConachy has had a
game against the English “champion” Davis,
and Lindrum’s admirers on this side would
also like to see him given a gallop in fresh
company. What about sending him up
against, say, Davis and Tom Newman, both
at once?
* * * *
“Centurion”: An unusual sporting event
is the annual match in Melbourne between
teams composed of Lewis gunners and rifle-
men for a trophy presented by the late Brig.-
Gen. Smith. Each side consists of four Lewis-
gunners and seven riflemen, one of whom, the
corporal in charge, does not fire. There
were 20 teams competing last week in the
event at Williamstown, and all were enlisted
men under the new voluntary scheme. The
contest consists of an advance on an objective
as well as actual firing, Lewis-gunners and
riflemen acting in co-ordination; the time
taken in the advance is a prime factor. The
59th Battalion from the Brunswick-Coburg
district won.


EM© IN TH
MORNING
HEALTH ALL DAY
s>
7
v\
%
i
A.
Sii
o
O'
O
0-0
-nP
mmk
.V '\. ?•> ■ J -
I
O'*
CX
0 : --a
Ok
r\
O
O
$2
n
tv
r>S
Uiv
H&4
ov
4*
o.
*eu
RliO
’THOSE who take Eno’s “Fruit
Salt’ ’ know the joy of a sparkling
morning draught which both stimu-
lates and invigorates. It starts you off
feeling that all’s right with the world.
More important Eno keeps you
feeling right all day long. It increases
your zest for work and play.
For Eno promotes that perfect inner
cleanliness on which really good
health depends. It gently yet
thoroughly eliminates from the system
the food waste and poisons of yester-
day. It keeps the blood-stream clean
and vigorous. Eno contains no purga-
tive mineral salts, so that its regular use
does not form an indispensable habit.
Follow the lead of countless healthy
people all over the world---start your
day with a glass of water sparkling
with a dash of Eno’s “Fruit Salt.”
In two sizes at Chemists and Stores
fcfc
Ik
ENOS
FRUIT SALT"
PREPARED ONLY BY J. C. ENO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND
Sales Agents: THE BRITISH HAROLD F. RITCHIE * CO. LTD. SYDNEY. N. S.W.


■ VLs
r m
•*
*
k
is
%
m
:
*\
/
*
■
i
i ■’
:
I
” 4 " . Tt
.. *
m
ft
M
* :
■
A
><
■ muf:
w
e
♦
I
I
m
<> .C
>*
i :
m
Tr
*
&
*
ft
f
wmm
WiSMM
i
■mu m
11
7
■
■
IllllilS
*r
at
é
Ui'i I l..j\-;J I c,S
e ~i in
( isllil
•!:!ll:li ; :
'll, w
V® Pi
\ Sill.
ifj
.iijf ~y
lII* .ll ,r
line!''
\ ¥*j?TOL L
! t’" )ii -\v-ff .«(■*> |s
Xf ij } \i
/' hiU> %%\ h* '
yy" / H n u p \ ‘Y,
ê


52 Macle&y St
Limited
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT, SYDNEY
(Located within the City Boundary, ten
minutes ]rom G.P.0.)
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 160 rooms, is now open, and
features Single Rooms, Double
Rooms with Bath, and two-, three-
and four-room Suites with Bath.
Central Heating, Hot and Cold
Water, ’Phone and Bedside Lamp
in each room. Unsurpassed
Harbor views.
Telephone: F 2161 (8 lines).
Telegraphic Address: “Fifmac,”
Sydney.
Visitors to Adelaide
WILL FIND
THE GRAND
COFFEE PALACE
AN IDEAL HOME.
Centrally Situated.
ALL CONVENIENCES—EVERY
COMFORT ASSURED.
EXCELLENT CUISINE.
LARGE MOTOR GARAGE
ATTACHED.
TARIFF: £3/10/- WEEKLY.
HINDLEY STREET,
NEXT WEST’S THEATRE.
m
*GROSVENOR
ADELAIDES FINEST UNLICENSED HOTEL
The most attractively located hotel
in Adelaide. The new railway sta-
tion is at your door; every transit
facility close by. Fireproof, 30U
rooms 100 bathrooms, spacious
lounge, faultless service, yale
lock on every door.
NORTH TERRACE. ADELAIDE.
Under*
/Royal
Vintage 1920.
ToH.NL
Kin£>
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE
Qiarleslleidsieck
bjhscs
Australasian Agfents
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
champagne.,.
Qttrleslleidsicc
REIMS
PELLISSOIM
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agreius—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydiwy.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Have you
ordered
Kraft Cheose?
Everything was very jolly and informal
about Hugh McCrae’s opening lecture, last
Thursday night. Patrons arriving in a
hurry as the clock struck eight discovered
the prima donna on the kerb holding
an informal reception of old pals. Man-
ager Jack Griffiths didn’t succeed in shooing
him into the seclusion proper to the even-
ing’s star until about ten past eight. At
a quarter-past eight, the chairs sparking
meantime in every cylinder from contact with
such as Lo Gay Brereton and his nephew
Fitzgerald, Fred Broomfield, Peon Gellert
(afterwards to hear himself referred to as
a scornful genius), Sydney Ure Smith, Mrs.
Fred Aaronson, Ernest Watt (something of
a poet himself), Cecil Mann, Dora Wilcox
and William Moore, and the whole McCrae
family. Hugh walked on to the platform. He
poured himself out in a five-minute frenzy
of poetic appreciation of the living, and
tlimi announced : “There will be a 10 minutes’
interval, after which I will start on the
subject of the evening, ‘My Father and My
Father’s Friends.’ ” In his excitement Hugh
hail put the interval in the wrong place—
Jack Griffiths had given him a parting in-
junction to be sure to let the audience have
10 minutes in which to smoke a cigarette
and get a cool drink.
The unveiling of the Ellis Rowan portrait
was quite a ceremonial of last week. The
painter lady is depicted as a delicate-looking
belle of the ’nineties. She is in a white
filmy frock made with the bell sleeve, and the
18in. waistline and the high-fence collar of
the period. Above the high collar the face
is a delicate oval crowned with the pompa-
dour of the time. John Longstaff’s re-
creation of the artist presides at the head
of one screened aisle of the Blaxland Gal-
leries, and is entirely surrounded by flower
and leaf and fern from the untiring lady’s
brush. The Ellis Rowan collection is not
great art, but it is a monument to Mrs.
Rowan’s patience, just as the portrait is a
memorial to Sarah Hynes and her loyal
friendship. The unveiling was done by Lady
De Chair, who was accompanied by Mrs.
Otway Falkiner and attended by Norman
Pope.
Out Redfern way you can come across a
two-storey building rather like a Swiss chalet
in parts, with a garden where tropic palms
and flowers of blazing color meet around
lawns made almost Arabian Nightish by the
presence of great earthenware pots —pots
some of them as large as those in which
Ali Baba drowned the 40 thieves in boiling
oil. But out at these Wunderlich head-
quarters they know a better use for
oil than that. In this service, where every
one of the staff can be a shareholder, and
most of them are, the wheels are made ro
run very sweetly: in 42 years not only has
there never been an industrial trouble —there,
has never been even hint or threat of one.
However, many politicians, including Premier
Bavin, are going to Redfern to-day to open
the new Welfare Hall of which the brothers
are so proud, and there may be those among
them who will know a splendid use for some
of the jars.
This new Welfare Hall is a place of light
and beauty. Its polished parquetry floor
suggests Louis heefs and a Watteau frock,
but it is just because the Wunderliclis don’t
think such a floor a bit too good for their
Welfare Hall that they are what they are.
By a doorway of richly-wrought bronze
which the metal-workers of Damascus might
have envied you enter, and, standing for a
moment under a dome in the same metal, you
look across a hall 66ft. by 51ft. The pillars
which mark off the central auditorium from
a surrounding promenade are of glazed terra-
cotta topped with bronze, and the great fire-
place which is set into the far end of the
room is of this same material in a Gothic
design, surmounted by the Wunderlich crest
and bossed -in waratahs and such-like old
Australian friends. The four graceful pen-
dant electroliers are of cast bronze, and if
you imagine a stalactite in bronze you cap-
ture something of their charm. The ceiling
that smiles above is of stamped metal in the
French modern style. Everything within
these handsome walls except the Steinway
Grand, the woodwork and the glass is a
Wunderlich production.
The three brothers, of a courtesy more
associated with baronial halls than twentieth-
century metal ceilings, view the new bit of
the Redfern building with delight in their
artistic eyes. They have given their co-
workers beautiful surroundings to play in,
and have at the same time achieved a show-
room for their wares. The walls of the
promenade are panelled with Wunderlich
productions; every few yards the ceiling car-
ries a different design in stamped metal.
Here is some panelling of old leather, with
a ceiling that carries a rich Jacobean design.
Ideal for a library—and just as ideal -when
you discover that it is not old leather but
embossed metal. Of graceful designs there
are examples in sturdy Gothic and in modern
French. There is even a shop-front to show
you what a shop-front might be —two win-
dows framed in metal and a metal doorway
in between. Somewhere some day you feel
sure that shop-front will beget other good
Australian wares.
To-night, after the heel-taps and the cigar-
ette-butts of the celebration luncheon have
been cleared away, there’s to be an evening
party in the new room. Here Ernest Wun-
derlich, founder of the firm and a great
musician, with Mrs. Ernest, will play a
composition of his own for four hands; Trix
Tange will help the programme; Alf red
•Wunderlich will sing.; and the Con. String
Quartette will be an added charm.
When Ernest Wunderlich started business
in a small way in Redfern 42 years ago he
rented what nowadays he would call a shed;
and there’s a fragment of interest hanging
to that, too. Back in the earliest days of
Redfern a nurseryman name Baptist had his
garden there. It was from this pioneer’s
daughter that Ernest Wunderlich rented his
first business home; and the lady, Mrs. Baas,
is still living, and hopes to cat her Christ-
mas dinner with her family at Mosman. At
92 her memory of early Sydney is unclouded.
The new Welfare Hall is in appropriately-
named Baptist-street, on a part of the area
from which Sydney’s great-grandmamma
drew her garden treasures. That it should
still serve as a nursery of beauty is very
appropriate, too.
Mrs. Albert Cazabon, who produced that
meringue of fun, “The Strutham Amateurs
Present,” was before her marriage to the pie-
sent musical director of the Prince Edward
Theatre an
actress wh o
had done good
work in Reper-
tory plays and
in coine d y.
Gregan Mc-
Mahon ga v e
her a first
training in
M e 1 b o uriic,
where she is
still remem-
bered as clever
Nor a h De-
laney. From
J.C.W. engage-
ments she
went on to
London, and
from London
to the Glas-
gow Reper-
tory Society,
where Shaw
and Ibsen and Sheridan and such like
elbowed one another on the bills. Later she
and her husband were first lieutenants to
Leon M. Lion at a Repertory theatre at
Bushey, near London. Hubert Harben and
Mary Jerrold were among the actors, and
Gilbert Murray, William Archer and George
Calderon showed active interest. Husband
Albert composed the music of the faery song
that runs through “The Land of Heart's
Desire,” the music that was written for the
Abbey Theatre production being unobtain-
able in Sydney.
A doctor-friend who trundled his old ’bus
out to Coogee on one of the sweltering
nights of last week wasn’t allowed to
feel lonely. “Fifteen thousand cars,” he
grumbled, “all better than mine, passed
me on the way.” His words on the
parking are omitted for fear of mak-
ing the type melt. The shark-proof area
was .so crowded you couldn’t change youi
mind let alone your foothold, and the flood
lights were so revealing a mere moth-hole
in your costume made a man feel he was
naked to the world. He believed half the
women on the pier had nothing under their
flimsy frocks but brassieres and trunks. Add
to this the bare leg, bare arm and bare head
of the moment, and lovely woman didn t
leave much to the imagination. The pier
was a blur of movement and a blaze of color,
the popular orange and gold predominating.
But, our doctor added sorrowfully, this night-
beach popularity is no help to Cupid. There’s
no sense of isolation left; the golden sands
are so crowded you’ll soon have to book
your seats, the same as at the theatre.
So far as the north-side beaches are con-
cerned the most striking feature of the surg-
ing season thus far is its extension towards
the Hawkesbury. Even in the 12 months
since the last season opened much road-
making has been done, and every hundred
yards of new concrete lures the motoring
mob nearer to Palm Beach —to the horror
of the earlier inhabitants, who can now watch
even the motor-lorry disgorge its load ot
week-end revellers where nothing short ot
a Rolls Royce felt quite at home until the
other day..
Every Christmas the American Women’s
Circle gives a Christmas party to the young-
sters of the American colony. And every
year each kiddie brings a toy with him
instead of taking one away, the gifts thus col-
lected being packed off to hospitals or kin
dergartens. This year the Golden Fleece
Kindergarten scooped the pool. However,
the party was a party, after all, for the host-
esses gave , each little guest a balloon. And
such a balloon! —long and fat and nearly
as tall as the receiver. The Arts Club held
this merry-making.
Forsaking her beloved books and trees at
Turee, Coolah, Mrs. R. H. Hangar is in town
working for
the success of
the ball on the
Orontes to-
night (Wed-
nesday). This
will be So-
ciety's charity
splash of the
week, and is
to help the
Country
Women’s Asso-
ciat i o h (of
whose central
executive Mrs.
Dangar is a
member) and
the Kinder-
garten Union.
The State
Exes, are tak-
ing a party to
the ball, and
Graham and
Elaine de Chair will also be on deck with
their own party as the guests of the com-
mittee.
The Ethel Allen Memorial got another
boost last week from the presentation of
three one-act plays by the Doone Dramatic
Company. As both the object and the
players are fashionable, the Savoy Theatre
was crowded with fine feathers on fine-to-
attenuation birds and on birds so plump they
suggested the Christmas turkey. And be-
fore this Letter goes further it would like
to say that in the matter of soft skin ancl
pretty lip the fleshly lady wins hands down
from her ascetic sister. Dresses in the
audience were worn long and were often
of lace, and as the best frocks aired them-
selves in the intervals, the aisles were as
interesting as any mannequin parade. Three
one-act plays were presented, all the girls
being from Doone, the finishing school tucked
away in Darlinghurst. (No, it isn ta ‘ P
course in razor slashing.) Mi's. Albert Caza-
bon produced the first, an amusing trifle
called “The Strutliam Amateurs Present.
Margaret Fairfax made a great hit m this
bv her way of pulling on a pair of stock-
ings. The Wilfred Fairfaxes, in company
with the rest of the audience, applauded the
pretty and clever child. Maisie Swan, Norah
Cazabon and Peggy Nott were other young
things who kept the fun going.
Into Yeats’s “Land of Heart’s Desire”
Bea MacDonald fiad poured all her own
love of the Celtic, and the result was quite
a fine interpretation. Two players stood
out: Jane Conolly for her good looks, pretty
tongue and milk-soft acting, and Ann Gor-
don as the faery child. Mrs. Gordon, like a
creature of faery herself, whisked up and
down the aisle between the two rows of seats
reserved for the Wilfred Fairfax party ; and
uptil Ann really got going, the Judge looked
as nervous as though he were standing his
trial for murder. However, Ann saved the
family honor. Radcliffe Brown was in the
audience with his coffee-and-cigarette waist-
line, Admiral Evans flashed his Pola Negri
smile, and the principal of Doone, Miss
Cheriton, was a flutter of green urapenas
and trepidation. The Charles Lloyd Joneses
and the Ernest Watts hobnobbed, a pretty
Stephen girl sold white camellias, and trea-
surer Molly Street wore black lace with a
jocund air. Miss Egan was among the throng,
and the Premier and Mrs. Bavin and Shirlety
—they had come to applaud Nancy, who was
in the Irish play. Clarice Faithfull Ander-
son’s emerald wrap was entirely m the
picture.
After the curtain had fallen on the third
offering, “In a Broadcasting Studio,” the
Wilfred Fairfaxes swept half the theatre off
home with them, and there was a great
party till two in the morning, with Scotch
reels and a Turkish-bath atmosphere.
A group of young things frocked in
white, each bearing a sunflower, the
emblem of the Kindergarten Training
College, banked the platform of the
Y.W.C.A. hall with wholesomeness and
grace on a warm, still night last week.
There were 17 of them, and they had been
proclaimed by the grace of many examiners
fully-fledged kindergarten teachers. Peter
Board, president of the college council was
there to hand out the diplomas, and when
they had received the precious P as teboaids
the 17, with the support of about (>0 otrn 1
students, lifted their sweet pipes ;n song -
a sort of unofficial hymn of thanksgiving, so
ii- seemed. Elsie McNeil led the singers and
Harriet Dumolo, the principal of the college,
was the centre of a storm of applause at the
close of a happy speech on the work ot
the college.
A clear £2OO is expected from the child-
ren’s party on the Nellore, and the Adult
Deaf and Dumb will benefit. D. J.
Mackay Sim, resident partner of Macdonald,
Hamilton and Co., earned the thanks ot a
grateful committee. On behalf of his com-
, nanv lie lent the boat and supplied the tea,
which, to the delight of the youngsters who
swarmed everywhere, was served by Chinese
boys in the dining-hall. Mrs. Harry Drans-
field the organiser, was literally on deck
the ’whole afternoon. She was in charge
of the gift stall, and in spite of brisk busi-
ness contrived to look cool in embroidered
mauve georgette shaded by a hat ot 'he
same hue There was a sweets stall, a lucky
dip and a hoop-la, a slippery slide and a
Punch and Judy; and nobody enjoyed the
party more than the members of the Chinese
crew who could mingle with the youngstei s.
Mrs. C. G. Berge was the secretary.
Hunter’s Hill has its own little circle who
have their being and marry and so on in
that charming suburb on the Parramatta.
East week a pretty' bride wdio sought the
Hill’s All Saints’ Church on matrimony in-
tent was Dorothy Titmus; the young man
was Harry Richmond Osborne, of Mosman,
and Tadre Montague Hinsby attached the
seal. A mist of Eimcrick lace over a shim-
mer of satin was noted as the bride passed,
and hydrangea-blue georgettes and pale-pink
hats were worn by ’maids Mary Windeyer
and Nancy O.sborne. Tranby, the Hunter’s
Hill home of Mr. and Mrs. C. J. Titmus,
echoed to the toasts.
Shirley Bavin, who before she left Syd-
ney on her recent trip abroad was engaged
to .John Bettington, but which engagement
was later broken off, has now broadcast the
news of her marriage early in January to
Lieut.-Commander J. S. Horn, R.N.
(retired). Her home will 4 be in England.
The Moules are digging into matrimony
in good style. They are two Melbourne girls.
Betty and Valerie, daughters of the Arthur
Moules, of Toorak. Valerie is engaged to
John Fairfax, son of the Dr. Wilfred Fair-
faxes, with whom she is now staying. Betty,
who arrived in Sydney from Europe by the
Cathay last week, announces her matrimonial
plum to be Vicomte Henri de Janze, a mem-
ber of one of the oldest families in Nor-
mandy. The families are reported to be old
friends, and Betty sails in January for the
wedding. One of the De Janze brothers is
an author.
Dorothy, only daughter of William Lyne,
one of the former powers in Australian poli-
tics, also faces the ring and the book in the
New Year. Her man, Guy Lawrence Brown,
hails from Oxford.
The wedding of Edith Forsyth and Noel
Mclntosh is fixed for Thursday night, when
the chapel of Shore Grammar will speed
another of its old boys on the matrimonial
voyage. Both bride and ’groom are of
Killara.
Captain G. A. Dickinson, associate to Act-
ing-Chief Justice Ferguson, has persuaded
Elaine Proctor, of Darling Point, to accept
an engagement-ring. Elaine is a noced
hockey-player, goes in for fencing, and is
interested in ballet dancing, too.
News of still another fiftjy-years-happy
marriage comes this Letter’s way. The
rejoicing couple are the David Simpson
Kirkwoods, of Tahlee, Burwood. Notable
guests at the family celebration last week
included the best man, ’groomsman, brides-
maids and train-bearers at the wedding that
took place when Sydney was half a century
younger. Mrs. Simpson Kirkwood was a
daughter of Mr. Russell Barton, of old Rus-
sell Lea and Mooculta station, Bourke, and
daddy was M.P. for Bourke when the wed-
ding took place—or did it happen just when
lie was thinking.about it? Seven of her sons
saw active service, and two never, returned
to Australia; her one daughter is Mrs.
Mervyn Finlay, wife of a well-known solicitor.
Writer Dulcie Deamer had a birthday last
week, and she and her friends kept it
up at the Playbox. It was a great night,
and Dulcie, who is something of a physical-
culture expert, demonstrated some of her
favorite exercises for keeping the figure lithe.
The Misses Sheridan, of North Sydney—
they are sisters of Acting-Judge Sheridan —
left last week on their second trip to Europe.
This time their Continental starting-point
will be Gibraltar; they will return via
America.
OVERHEARD.
Daughter: “Oh, let me stay home —Pm bored in
church.”
Mother (acidly) : “Yes, my girl, and you’ll be lucky
i£ you aren’t used for kindling in the next
world.”


Crops take on a new appearance
—and they show a worth while improvement in their yield after they have been
given a timely dressing of Sulphate of Ammonia.
Throughout almost every farming district you will find that the use of Sulphate
of Ammonia is very much on the up grade. The reason is not far to seek, as
this quick acting fertiliser is unquestionably one of the finest growth promoters
known to agricultural science and is a powerful medium for putting bulk, plus
quality into farm, orchard, vineyard and garden crops.
“It pays to fertilise” says the wide-awake grower “but you get the biggest net
return when Sulphate of Ammonia is included in the scheme.” If you have not
used this “ big crop” producer, write for free literature and learn what excellent
results it has given for others.
Fertiliser agents everywhere sell Sulphate of Ammonia. Buy some —if only a
small quantity—and see for yourself what it is capable of doing in the matter
of crop improvement.
THE AUSTRALIAN SULPHATE OF AMMONIA PROPAGANDA
COMMITTEE
Melbourne Address:
360 COLLINS STREET
Sydney Address :
Box 481 A.A., G.P.O.
m
ffainsborough Shape.
As beauty should
go beautifully—
©O Beauty should be
t>csserved in beauty. It is
unthinkable that Milady s
guests should take tea in cups
less than perfect in elegance
of form and substance. The
name of Shelley (hidden under
every piece) promises no less.
English Bone China, fashion-
ed by hereditary craftsmen in
Shelley’s service, can yield
no more —and this is the envy
of potters the world over!
Ask to see the latest
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
'• China
Nursery Ware
6y Lucie Attweu
e- Hilda Cowham
Dome stic Ware
Jelly Moulds
BRITISH MAC!
m CAS I of any difficulty in oitainimo
WRITS TO
T«S/.HIATH fc CO. LTD,
a32.CLAO.BNCR »T.
•VDMRV
ẅ
w
ŵ
ẁ
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE
3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
THE PATRIOT
DIRECT MEDIUMTQ WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
PAINFUL POEMS
Old George and I were thoroughly
Wrapped up in one another,
He was extremely fond of me,
I loved him like a brother 2
•73
41
’ k “vQj
S'o l^3*vssi
But a lion caught him unaware
While resting in a nullah
• • • •
So after all I need not share
That last box of ABDULLA.
—Fougasse
(\BDUIxA
SUPERB
VIRGINIA
TURKISH
EGYPTIAN


m
m
a
• '
, j
\<v° s
vaS
The Unique Gift
of the Year
The Harwood automatically winds itself by the
simple ordinary movements of the wearer’s
arm. Upon the wrist it never stops. Off the
wrist it will keep going for 34 hours. The
Harwood is Dust-proof, Damp-proof and
Cannot Overwind. It is the greatest refinement
in watchmaking and the latest thing in Christ-
mas Gifts. This year the original donor will
give a Harwood Self-winding Watch !
Sole Agents for Australasia :
ARONSON & GO. (Pty) LTD., Holt House, York St.,
Sydney,
7hp centre of Queen s/a nets
ct/stt ngu/sfrec/ Soc/o/ Life.
<Sk
BRISBANE
_\\N
Magnificent sai i-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal ol
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of.
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Lines.
Merry Christmas!
BY ARTHUR GROOM
ILLUS'TDATED BY HAPPY JAVEXTON
Synopsis: Sandy Jackson, tired of
looking for work and utterly broke in
Brisbane, decides to get back to fami-
liar surroundings, as far west as
possible. Pratten, commercial traveller,
refuses him a lift in Queen-street, and
Sandy crawls into the small space in
the back of the car, and after sundry
mishaps meets his old friend Jim Wal-
ters at Gloncurry, and accepts a job
to go with him to Boolgooroo
station. Reaching the station, Jim
Walters meets an addition, a city girl,
who is looking after the store, and
whose name, station-owner Jack Hin-
ton tells him, is Helen Delaney. Her
presence embarrasses Walters, but
Sandy, who has brought a souvenir ,
pair of jazz garters with him, has
just enough respect for her to get the
hands engaged in a contest to discover
what kind of garters Miss Delaney
wears Miss Delaney is greatly em-
barrassed by the sudden interest the
hands take in her, but Walters, who
gets to know of the joke, wins a new
place in Miss Delaney’s regard by
quashing the competition, and a strong
love affair develops between them.
Walters, Bandy and others go out to
the stock camp at Eldeetil waterhole.
CHAPTER XVII.
Fire.
DAWN was heralded by a rising wind
from the south-west, which swirled
across the waterhole and caused the
stockmen to forsake their blankets with
muttered curses. The flying sand made
further sleep almost impossible.
Ardell and the two blackboys disappeared
away into the gidya, whence the sound of
many bells indicated the positions of the
stockhorses.
Sandy Jackson rose and swore violently,
stamped around in the gloom of the ration
tents and beneath the great overhanging
trees outside for fully five minutes before
he commenced to build up the fire, which
had subsided into a heap of glowing coals
during the night. Sand got into his eyes
and augmented his swearing frightfully.
“What’s up, Sandy?” Jim Walters asked
as he came out of the gloom.
“Up? Up? Blimey, James, what’re we
goin’ to do with this wind? I ain’t got
a bag to put it in, an’ it’s cornin’ from
the sou’-west!”
“It’s quite liable to keep that way for
a fortnight or more,” Jim Walters replied,
grinning.
Sandy Jackson grew sulky, refused to
talk, smoked the tea water, made a mess of
the steak and blamed it all on to the wind,
which seemed to be growing stronger every
moment.
“It would be advisable to ride the
quietest of the horses, to-day,” Jim Walters
addressed the gathered stockmen, then
peered away to where the rays of the
rising sun were grappling through a wall of
flying red dust. “We’re going to have a
nasty day; but there’s a lot of cattle
running locally, and we’ve got to get after
them.”
The stockmen saddled and mounted with
little enthusiasm, though they all realised
that they would be better off riding about
in the hot dust than Sandy Jackson would
be trying to cook with tents flapping, pots
and pans flying in giddy circles across the
claypan, and live ashes blowing everywhere.
The wind held with small
variation in its strength for
a full fortnight; and seven-
teen hundred calves had
been branded. The clay-
pan was torn into a soft powder from
the rushing and driving of thousands of
cattle across it, and the crude wire tailing-
yards on the eastern end of the claypan
were in a sorry state of disrepair.
Sandy had drawn the thoroughbrace to
the south of the camp-fire, hoping to break
a little of the wind’s strength. In certain
spots he discovered he could cook and
talk without having to hold on to every-
thing not tied to him; but the wind had
an abominable habit of invading the calm
spots in sudden whirling gusts, bringing
with it stinging, burning sand.
“I think,” Jim Walters declared huskily
on a Saturday evening, “that it would be
much better for us to work all* day to-
morrow and reserve our Sunday for a later
date. Anything is better than sitting still
in this damn wind.” He looked brown with
dust himself, and his eyes glistened as
from a red mask. The dust had settled
heavily in the folds of his khaki shirt.
The stockmen agreed unanimously and
the horses were saddled for work.
“I’ve seen wind,” Sandy Jackson
grumbled, “but this lot beats me. I’d like
to get all the flamin’ balloons in the world
an’ fill ’em with it—-up an’ up an’ up, till
the damn things bust. I’d like to give
yards an’ yards of it to all the scandalisin’
old dames in the big cities, an’ then set ’em
loose where they could talk ’emselves silly
as rabbits. Gawd only knows what I’d like
to do with it. I’d give it to every poor
beggar what’s suffocatin’. Wind ! Dinkum,
I’ve never seen nothin’ but baby breezes
before!”
Jim Walters rode out into it again
amongst the stockmen. They leant forward,
heads twisted awkwardly against the blast.
The horses were nervous and fidgety.
Down below in the Eldeetil Waterhole a
reddish scum polluted the water. The trees
seemed clothed in a brownish blight. The
tents were painted an unnatural pink.
Buckets, pots, pans, mugs and plates—all
were first and foremost mere collectors of
dust.
Sandy discovered he was alone. Even
Ardell, usually left to superintend the yards,
had gone with the musterers. Nearly a
hundred horses stood hobbled out on the
claypan, tails to the wind, trying to hide
one behind the other, coughing at intervals
and snapping viciously as the wind grew
stronger and stronger.
The thoroughbrace rose high beyond the
camp-fire. It was empty but for a collection
of harness, a full tin of kerosene and a soft
pad of dust.
Sandy was glad of the kerosene. It was
a luxury; it meant that he could have a
lamp every night for months to come—
he did not know that the tin had sprung a
slight leak and that the priceless stuff was
slowly soaking into the floor of the
thoroughbrace and dripping down on to the
heavy axle-bed.
High up on a spinifex-covered hill half
a mile to the north-west Sandy observed
three stockmen riding abreast. He noticed
them more particularly because of the long
cloud of thicker dust raised by their horses’
feet. Had they been a mile away the dust
would have hidden them altogether.
As usually happened, a few frightened
cattle galloped from the gidya at intervals,
thundered along the open claypan and
dived away at the western end of the
waterhole. Sandy tried to follow them with
his eyes; but everything was merged in one
red blur.
The sun rode slowly up the sky, as it had
done daily for the past fortnight, like a
huge ball of blood-red fire, surrounded by
a dark halo. Dust moved before it, like
the thin clouds of a spent storm; yet the
reddish brilliancy was painful to the eyes.
The horses commenced to move slowly
off into the shadow of the thick gidya, and
as they went the wind caught their tracks
and whirled them away out over the tops
of the trees.
Muttering, cursing and trying to sing at
intervals, Sandy managed to form a slight
wind-break around the camp-fire, just as
he had done every day, only to see his
labor whirled away.
He commenced to cook. He mixed a
large brownie in the stuffiness of a closed
tent, until sweat rolled from him in great
beads. He nursed the brownie while it
was cooking, piling ashes over the camp-
oven, and then dead ashes on top again.
He boiled beef for three hours, strained
it, and poked it away into the depths of
a large calico bag, which felt harsh and
gritty; and then he managed to make a
doubtful pudding.
The men would like two puddings. Sandy
scratched his head and wondered whether
he could rely on the wind as an excuse.
It had served so far; but some of the
stockmen were beginning to insinuate that
if he could make one lumpy pudding in
the wind—well, he could make two.
Sandy’s ears moved to attention and he
sniffed. A smell of burning hung in the
air. It was somewhat different from the
smell of his camp-fire; and then he heard
a sound like the rush and crackle of flames.
He burst from the tent.
Twenty feet from the camp-fire the gi’eat
thoroughbrace stood covered with leaping,
roaring flames.
Sandy tried to approach but could not.
The sound of an explosion made him re-
member the kerosene-tin; flames ran
swiftly down the wheels and on to the
ground and caught the green windbreak
around the camp-fire. There it was con-
fined.
A bucket of water lay within reach.
Sandy got it, ran as close as possible, and
flung the water. It fell feet short. He
swore luridly and walked back to the bank
of the waterhole and gazed helplessly.
“What the blazes will James say?” he
muttered and coughed nervously. “Any-
way, I didn’t do it. It was the wind did
it, o’ course.”
The knowledge did not ease his mind.
He wished he had means to quench the
blaze; but he knew it was impossible. The
thoroughbrace was doomed, also the harness,
and he would have no kerosene for his
lamp—except the pint already in it; that
was a nasty point about the whole occur-
rence. Apparently a live coal must have
swirled up with the wind.
The fire reached its peak. The flames
leapt high up into the suffocating air,
whipped merrily into the wind, roared and
crackled, scorched the great trees yards
away; and then the thoroughbrace began
to creak and to crumble. Ironwork twisted,
loosening the floor boards, which fell blaz-
ing to the ground. The spokes of the
wheels burnt out and one tyre fell outward,
red-hot in one part. • Oil oozed from the
axle-boxes and fell, clothed in sizzling
flames, to the ground, to run away in
burning gutters.
The body of the thoroughbrace crashed
in a heap. Sparks flew up and away with
the wind. The pole dropped off and lay
smoking in the sand; and slowly the fire
began to die, leaving behind it a heap of
ashes.
An hour later Sandy Jackson had reduced
the pile of ashes to blackened wet char-
coal. The thoroughbrace was ruined. Not
one plank lay next its mate. The ironwork
was twisted and melted. The harness stank
and was not recognisable.
“It ain’t my fault,” Sandy muttered be-
tween clenched teeth. “But what’ll James
say?”
The mingled sound of many cattle call-
ing in the gidya drew his attention, and
then suddenly "the lead of an excited mob
of a thousand head burst from the gidya
a quarter of a mile away and were wheeled
back in a tumbling circle on the clay pan.
The flying dust almost buried the cattle
and the riders holding them. “Mickies”
and younger calves darted away, only to be
forced back into the mob by swift horse-
work.
Ardell, mounted on a spirited black
gelding, galloped from behind the cattle,
down the claypan to the crude tailing
yards, and flung back the wide wire entrance
gate. Then he returned into the red hell
around the cattle, riding fast, neat and
low on his horse’s neck.
Whips cracked loudly. Men swore un-
ceasingly, shouted, yelled and swore again.
“You cantankerous old 1” The accu-
sation to a frightened cow sounded loudly
across the claypan; but the rider dis-
appeared and the thousand cattle moved
slowly towards the yards.
The horsemen, though within a furlong,
could only be seen through a suffocating
screen. The cattle tried wildly to break
away with the wind; but alert stockmen,
good horses and frenzied shouting kept
them straight ahead.
By skilful manoeuvring Jim Walters
worked the cattle up before the wide yard
gate. Through the gate a slight calm
appeared in the flying inferno, while to
right and to left red du,st blew away
quickly.
The leading string broke through into
the yard, cantered heavily down and
stopped wildly against the far fence. Those
behind followed without choice, kicking
and bellowing, squeezing at the gate, as
though life depended on escape from the
clinging dust.
It followed them in; but the stock-
whips ceased, the shouting died away; and
the cattle settled slowly.
In a broad front, hoarse, dry, half-choked
with dust, with bloodshot eyes, the stock-
men rode quietly towards the camp; and
as they approached it they exclaimed in
wonder and astonishment.
“What happened?” Jim Walters snapped
as he dismounted and nodded towards the
great heap of charred ashes.
“Flamin’ thoroughbrace got burnt down
—that’s about all.” Sandy Jackson’s tone
was a little apologetic. “Happened not so
long ago.”
“Yes, yes, but how?”
“Dunno, it just got burnt down—that’s
all.”
“Couldn’t you put it out?”
Sandy Jackson straightened in surprise.
“Put it out—me skinny aunt! Take me
for a blanky fire-engine, James? That tin
of kerosene was in it, an’ she exploded
without warnin’ one way or another; an’
kerosene jumped all over the damn place.
The flames just busted up all roads, an’ you
couldn’t see where they was cornin’ from
next. I run in time after time with buckets
(Continued on page 51.)


Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner <2
la carte from 1/6. Inclusive tariff, £4/4/- weekly.
Special quotations for sporting bodies, etc. Situated
right opposite Spencer Street Station, no taxi fares;
railway porter carries baggage across if necessary.
Please write for detailed tariff card. Carlyon’s
Hotel, Melbourne, is sufficient address.
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY —Price 3d.
(T
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
Use CASH'S RIBBONS
for Shoulder Straps
—and this just
CAN'T happen.
\
Cash's Ribbons arc most
durable, and never break
or fray, once threaded,
you don't remove them
from the Garment—as
(asiis
[Washing RIBBONS
took like new after repear-
ed washing. Made in
daintiest fadeless Pastet
Shades, with Brocaded or
Floral Effect in various
widths
Ask your Draper
for Cash’s.
J. & J. Cash Australian
Weaving Co. Pty. Ltd.
Richmond Melbourne.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
[?] C[?] [?]
Buckey [?], [?]
B[?] [?]
Now that summer has really arrived, after
a couple of runaway knocks, the rag shops
are filling their windows with bathing
apparel. There was a time when the swim-
ming outfit was an idyllically simple gar-
ment, comfortable, seemly and cheap—but
now! Some of the items that make up the
high cost of living were illustrated, with
the devilish art that is so fatal to the pocket
in these affairs, in a Collins-street window.
Parts of an ensemble outfit were (1) a
green and white jersey, the coat being on
sports lines, (2) a large matching hat,
(3) a long wrap, (4) shoes, (5) a bag,
(6) an umbrella, (7) a rubber cap, (8) a
wristlet and (9) a posy. There were pro-
bably some other etceteras that escaped this
Chatterer’s eye—she can’t remember seeing a
bathing suit, though there must have been
one—but the order of the bath is such a
wardroby business these days that it’s hard
to keep tab of everything.
The girl planninglther summer wardrobe
should seriously consider her choice of a
choker, for it has become an important acces-
sory to a sports ensemble. The smartest
idea is a necklet of leather beads fashioned
like golf balls and tinted in many colors,
a silver disc being strung between each
bead. Another whim is to cover the beads
with jersey cloth, matching the wearer’s
frock, and embroider ieach with a gold
leaf or flower. The handkerchief is also
important. The three square inches or so
of fabric has given place to a man’s-sized
hankie, but there is a difference, for the
maid’s is of chiffon, ornamented with a mono-
gram.
Not to dress up for the opening of Parlia-
ment has become a fixed rule, so much so
that even in the hottest weather no woman
would think of putting on anything pretty or
light for the occasion. Looking around the
Council chamber from the ladies’ gallery at
last week’s function, one could have sworn it
was a Good Friday congregation. Many
of the women present presumably combined
Christmas shopping with the function, for
small boys and girls were brought along and
made mighty inroads on the sandwiches and
cake provided after the ceremony. Several
men, crowded out from the floor of the House,
sought sanctuary in the ladies’ gallery, which
also was invaded by photographers. The out-
side spectacle consisted in essence of an Air
Force guard, a band and some mounted police.
The Speech from the Throne established a
new record for brevity. Lady Somers was
present wearing a frock patterned in brown
and mole tones with a ballibuntal straw hat
of darker hue. The Clarke lady, who entered
the chamber with her, added a bit of color
to the scene with a cornflower-blue hat over-
shading a chiffon gown splashed in del-
phinium hues. Speaker Peacock’s wife was
there in black and white, with lines of gold
brightening her black hat. Mrs. Richard
Linton’s tailor-made suit was of fawn check
summer tweed, worn with a black hat. Mrs.
Hogan sported uneven hem lengths of rose
printed chiffon topped by a black hat. Mrs.
W. Sanderson, from West Oregon, U.S.A.,
and Mrs. George Armitage were visitors.
Education Minister Cohen (as he then was)
and Mr. and Mrs. Edgar held private tea-
drinkings in their own rooms; but the vice-
regals refreshed themselves with the crowd
gathered about the statue of Victoria in the
Queen’s Hall.
Christmas being in the offing, the commit-
tee luncheon at Moonee Valley Racecourse
on Saturday had an even cheerier atmo-
sphere than usual. Mingled with the
great men of the turf around the board
were many politicians. Premier Hogan w r as
there, probably feeling in a winning vein.
Mrs. Hogan accompanied him, wearing a
cornflower-blue ensemble, and a large crin.
hat of darker hue. General Chauvel’s lady
was in beige, and her sister, Mrs. Bun-
dock, combined a floppy lemon-colored hat
with a navy-blue ensemble. Among other
patrollers of the lawn were Essendon’s
M.L.A., Arthur Drakeford, and his wife. Mr.
A. V. Kewney and his wife, Mrs. Ben Chaf-
fey, the Roger Thomsons, Mrs. J. B. Mc-
Arthur, Mrs. A. V. Hiskens and her sister,
Miss Cox, Mrs. Clive Leonard, tailored in
fawn, and the Lauchie Mackinnons. A
mingling of sunshine and showers and a cool
wind effectually put a damper on the dress
parade.
The womenfolk of aldermen, councillors
and officers of the Town Hall assembled on
Thursday afternoon to enjoy music and tea
in the Mayoress’s suite. Mrs. Luxton’s
chiffon gown was fashioned with cape
drapery in blended browns and fawns and
her shiny straw hat bore orange plumage.
Her small daughter Mary helped with the
hostessing with two plaits dangling over a
figured silk frock. Masses of magnificent
white, purple and brown irises, gladioli and
carnations decorated, and pianist John
Simons, fiddler Hermia Barton and singer
Cicely Kelly entertained the guests. The
Morell lady and Sheila, Madame Joy McArden
and several relatives of Mrs. Luxton, includ-
ing her mother, Mrs. W. H. Lewis, Mrs.
Kenneth Clark and Mrs. Tom Luxton, were
there.
The three French societies here linked
forces at the Lyceum Club one evening last
week to say hon voyage to the Consul Rene
Turck, his wife and daughter Ninette. M.
Turck has been here just 10 years, and has
been transferred elsewhere. Owing to ill-
ness Madame Turck was not at the soiree,
but Ninette came, looking very smart in
black taffeta, and collected a handbag and
a posy as souvenirs of her stay in Melbourne.
A clock set in Chinese lacquer was a parting
gift to the Consul, and for Madame there
was a bound volume of Art in Australia.
The president of the Alliance Franqaise, Rene
Vanderkelen, Consul for Belgium, voiced
regrets at the departure of the Turcks, and
A. Chisholm, senior lecturer in French at the
Uni., added words of praise. Madame Joy
McArden sang some French songs, and there
was chamber music, with John Simons at
the piano. Messrs. Turck, Vanderkelen and
Laroche gave a dramatic sketch.
Nell Taylor,
pictured here
by Ruskin, is
one of T. L.
Middle ton’s
students at the
Uni Con. In
addition to a
pretty voice,
light, but
clear and true
to pitch, she
gave proof in
the Repertory
Society’s pro-
d uction of
“The Rose and
the Ring,” in
which she was
Princess Ros-
alba, that she
has a flair for
acting.
Lady Somers lifted the latch at the open-
ing of the Lady Forster wing of the Q.V.
Hospital. The building of the block, which is
for the accommodation of maternity cases,
was planned at a meeting at Government
House, at which Lady Forster was the
moving spirit, in 1923. The Edward Wilson
Trust provided £lO,OOO of the cost and
substantial cheques were received from other
donors, to say nothing of the thousands
of pounds garnered by the hospital’s auxi-
liaries. These auxiliary workers have also
undertaken the permanent maintenance of
the section, so there is not much fear of
the wards ever being closed for lack of
funds. A gift of £5OO from Mrs. Arthur
Hurlstone helped to furnish the block. Mrs.
Norman Brookes, the president, welcomed
her Ex., who paid a tribute to the founders
of the hospital. There were speeches by
Dr. Margaret McLorinan, Atlee Hunt and
others, and the billy was boiled.
The wives of staff corps officer’s mustered
at George’s-on the invitation of Mrs. G. P.
Meredith to drink a farewell brew with Mrs.
E. M. Ralph, who leaves us to join her
brigadier-general in Brisbane, where he has
just been appointed O.C. Mrs. W. A. Coxen
handed a posy and a bit of Australian pot-
tery to the guest of honor as a memento.
Office-bearers of St. Vincent’s Hospital
Auxiliaries met round rose-decked tables in
the private lounge of Menzies’ during the
week to give a Christmas box to their
general president, Mrs. Merson Cooper, who
is due to leave for Europe with her husband
in April. Looking charming in biscuit-toned
needle-run lace, with a fur-collared georg-
ette coat and Baku straw hat, she said her
thanks for a gold boudoir clock and a huge
basket of water-lilies. Mayoress Luxton, with
a dash of jade-green cheering a black turn-
out, passed over the offering, and the vice-
president, Mrs. James Alston, dittoed the
civic lady’s verbal tribute. Round the official
table were Mrs. T. J. Ryan, a symphony
in black and white; Mrs. W. J. Wearne;
Mrs. J. P. Casey, the treasurer; and Mrs.
G. D. Bowcher, the secretary, with a pale
green crinoline straw hat shading a rose-pat-
terned ninon gown. Before the tea-pouring
Molly Warden, Dorothy Gorman and Victor
Baxter sang to accompaniments furnished
by Harold Rogers, Laura Snelgrove and
Edith Sutton. St. Vincent’s Auxiliaries,
which number 14, have been in existence for
a bit over two years and in that time have
raised over £7OOO, apart from £4OOO ear-
marked for radium.
Knight-o’-the-brush Longstaff had his por-
trait of ex-Lud Mayor Morell completed in
time for those who commissioned it to hand
it over to Melbourne's former civic daddy
for a Christmas gift. Howard Berry handed
over the canvas at the Town Hall last week,
and the Morell lady had to say thank you
for a diamond bracelet. Daughter Sheila,
who was her mother’s able lieutenant, was
delighted with her memento of the reign—a
sapphire and diamond ring.
A naval wedding always draws a good
gallery, and there were crowds both within
and without St. John’s, Toorak, for the splic-
ing of Norah, elder daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Rupert Wilks, Malvern, and Lieut., Allan
Dreghorne Cairns, who hails from Westralia.
The bride’s gown was of white satin, cut on
; long lines, with tulle train and Limerick veil,
and two ’maids were in frocks and hats of
reseda-green. There were celebrations at
No. 9.
The Artists’ Society had what it called
“A Night Out with the Vies.” at the V.A.S.
Galleries on Friday. There was dancing,
with cabaret turns by the Dental Follies.
The guests came in fancy dress, and all
went gaily in the vividly decorated hall, in
which a Christmas-pudding was a promi-
nent symbol against a background of fruits,
flowers and black cats. H. L. Tern was
lion. sec. of the jollo.
Lucy Ahon’s Student Theatre Society
made its debut at Kelvin Hall on Saturday
night in the morality play “Everyman.”
Gladys Ivenne, a Chinese damsel, as Every-
man, was the shining light of the perform-
ance. In her crimson doublet and hose, with
a peacock’s feather stuck jauntily in her
cap, she made a striking figure. Mlarion
Steel, as Knowledge, and Edna Thomas, in
the filmy-black draperies of Death, were
other outstanding members of a numerous
cast. The staging was cleverly managed.
Margaret Claire played organ accompani-
ments, and there was a choir under her
direction. As a curtain-raiser, “Mannikin
and Minnikin” was given by Georgine Wil-
son and Mabel Thompson. It is a dialogue
between Dresden China figures placed back
to back upon a mantelpiece, and was nicely
done.
Mrs. I. H. Moss is again having a round
of farewell cups of tea, for she departs on
yet another journey across the world, next
week. The committee members of the
N.C.W. assembled at the Oriental to bid
their president good-bye. Mrs. Moss, who
was in black and white with a brown hat,
made her adieux over bunches of early laven-
der and roses. She will represent the Coun-
cil at a congress in Vienna next year.
Mrs. E. O. MacDevitt, who directs the
operations of the Ladies’ Work Association,
reported d t the annual meeting that the
work of members had been of a very high
standard. Over £3OO was received as the
result of the jubilee sale at Menzies’. Mrs.
J. Fisken, president, Miss Stirling, hon. sec.,
and Mrs. Joseph Levi, hon. treas., were there,
and Mrs. Lauchlan Mackinnon was in the
chair. In the depot were displayed exquisitely
adorned lingerie and landscapes in silken
stitches. Some handsome pieces of tapestry
and petit-point embroidery suitable for the
embellishment of bags and other articles
figured in the collection.
Little Collins-street is in the way of be-
coming an art centre, attracting to itself
numerous small shops with an sesthetic
flavor about their wares. They sell furni-
ture, pictures, china, pottery, brass, pewter
and all sorts of bric-a-brac. In a quaint
looking green shop with a yellow door abides
the Primrose Pottery, where earthenware
fashioned, so it is said, by European peasants
is displayed upon dressers and English
china adorns cupboards and tea-trays. Toys
have settings of children’s colored play-room
furniture to show them off. It’s a dangerous
place to explore at this season. A trio of girls,
Betty and Edith MacMillan and Valerie
Forrester arc proprietors of the shop, which
is the outcome of a visit to Europe. They
are endeavoring to make it just like such
shops on the Continent. Though they im-
port a good deal of their stock, there is Aus-
tralian art-craft work on sale too.
Of course there’s only one Clara Butt, just
as there’s only one Melba; but Cicely Kelly,
of the Apple Isle, has a contralto voice
that’s almost as startling in its sonority
and purity as that of the great English
singer. When Miss Kelly sang the first few
notes of a Mozart aria at Melba Hall the
other night a full house sat up suddenly. As
an encore she sang Lieurance’s “Waters of
Minnetonka” to her own accompaniment. The
occasion was a vocal recital of Madame Joy
McArden’s pupils. A soloist who displayed
dramatic ability was Ina Lillycrap, a
soprano who sang “Elsa’s Dream.” A choir
of mixed voices gave a good performance of
excerpts from the “Immortal Hour” of Rut-
land Boughton. Madame McArden, who
conducted, was in gold tissue. At the end
of the evening she sang Christmas songs in
French, German and English. A giant basket
of blooms, a gift from her pupils, figured
among the posies that rewarded her. Adele
Levy, one of the evening’s songbirds, in white
tulle with white lilies perched on her
shoulder, handed over the tribute. John
Simons accompanied.
Wearing a frock of printed chiffon Mrs.
Campbell Guest hostessed a bridge party at
her Toorak home the other afternoon as
a final social rally before going off to Mace-
don for some weeks. H'er sister, Mrs. Alex.
Cameron, helped with the entertaining of
the many guests, who included Mayoress
Luxton.
Pianist Marie Aussenac, who was through
Australia with the Butt-Rumfords in 1925,
and whose marriage in Melbourne to Prince
Jacques Debroghe gave society its most
romantic thrill of the season, has discovered
that there’s a good deal of gingerbread in
her gilt. She alleges she was deserted by
her husband in the U.S.A., and she’s now
suing him for maintenance through a French
Court. Jacques, who seems a flighty sort
of fellow, says he would prefpr a divorce.
The Rose Day street appeal for the kin-
dergartens brought in over £lOBO, and there’s
a bit more to come.
Melba, now settled in a Paris flat, was
accompanied by Melbourne pianist Roy
Shepherd when she sang at one of her
recent parties. When the latest mail left,
Lady Bridges and daughter Avilda were
being sheltered under her roof while Sir
Tom was yachting in the Riviera. Tom
Paterson, Dame Nellie’s nephew, was also
in Paris.
There is much rejoicing at the Children’s
Hospital, where the threatened closing of
wards has been postponed by a promise of
£2OOO a month for four months made by
Sidney Myer, of the Bourke-street emporium.
At the Arts and Crafts Society’s new depot
in Little .Collins-street there is a display of
articles that recommend themselves as Christ-
mas presents. There are many beautiful
specimens of hand-made jewellery, beaten
metal, tooled leather and decorated wood-
work. Amy Fuller has contributed largely
to the decorated wood section, all her screens,
book-ends, writing-table requisites and so
forth being adorned with Australian flora.
Mrs. Devereux, who is represented by glazed
pottery, Mrs. Newell, Miss M. Alston and Kit
Turner are others who have contributed to
the stock. Lady Somers looked in last week,
and made some purchases.
The last of the Royal Horticultural
Society’s free monthly shows of the year
happened at the Town Hall on Thursday.
Blue was the dominant tint —a gay blue
that blazed from Mrs. Lyle’s delphiniums,
and, in softer tones, from hydrangeas that
had been grown in the City Council's gardens.
The Kyneton Sweet-pea Society sent a col-
lection of the blooms in which it specialises,
and there were some rare spikes of gladioli,
remarkable both for color and for size.
Bookbinding is the flair of Margaret Chap-
man, pictured here by Ruskin. For many
years she has
turned out
beautiful
examples of
this pleasant
craft, and of
late she has
spent a good
deal of her
time in im-
parting her
knowledge to
others. One of
her pupils who
sought further
i n s t r uction
abroad found
that her teach-
er in Mel-
bourne had
but little to
learn from
overseas bind-
e r s. Miss
Chapman, who
resides at Jolimont, has a rare capacity for
suiting the covers to the contents of a book.
In the matter of styles she has mastered the
characteristics of a wide range of periods,
reading back to the days when monasteries
monopolised the making of books and em-
bellished their productions with a wealth of
ornament.
Expected back from their European and
African tour in January are Mr. and Mrs.
W. Mortill, of Tay Creggan, Hawthorn. The
lady has not had a very enjoyable holiday,
for she has had to spend several weeks in
hospital.
Jean Eggleston and her father are back
from the Pacific Conference, but Mrs. Eggle-
ston and Mrs. Harry Emmerton decided to
go on to Pekin before coming home.
Dollie Champion, widow of one of the
Firm’s orchestra conductors, is now hostess
of a London bridge club and likes the job
immensely. Her son Boy, like herself an
expert at the game, gives lessons.
Leg. Councillor 11. H. Smith and his wife
have planned an IS months’ holiday in
Europe, and will leave in the first week in
March, travelling by way of S. Africa. Their
picturesque home in South Yarra has been
let, and they are now flat-dwellers at Garden
Court.


Drummond’s Christmas Gifts
8108. —Lady’s Real Crocodile Leather Pochette,
fitted with inner pocket and mirror, etc., Bsin. x sin.,
£2.
889. —Folding Leather Clock,
8-day lever movement, lumin-
ous hands and figures, £3.
8114. —Three Pairs
Sheffield Scissors,
in real crocodile
leather-covered
case, 35/-
8123.—C h i n a
Thimbles, various
colored designs,
3/- each.
Q)
8107. —Lady’s Fine-quality Real Crocodile Handbag,
fitted with inside pocket, purse, mirror, etc.,
leather-lined, 11 x 7 inches, £G/6/-
Nothing more attractive has ever been
offered in Melbourne than the selection of
Christmas Novelties which has just been
received from London and the Continent.
An invitation is cordially extended to
inspect the full range which is being dis-
played in the Showrooms.
Bll7.—St long
S i 1 v e r-mounted
Nickel Corkscrew
and Bottle Opener,
in case, £l/10/-
Bl2s.—Enamel and
S i 1 v e r Gilt
Thimbles, various
styles and colors,
5/- and 7/6 each.
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
CHILDREN’S BOOKS
in a
The New Basement, devoted solely to the display of Children s
Books, Christmas Cards and Calendars, is now open at Rowlandson
House (N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Ltd.), Corner of Castlereagh and
Market Streets, Sydney.
Some Annual Volumes for Christmas, 1929
“CHUMS” —the ever-popular, is wonderful value. Buy a copy for your
hoy. 13/6 ( postar/e extra) from the N.S.W. Bookstall Company, Ltd.
“BOVS’ OWN ANNUAL”—no less popular than “Chums.” This great
Annual is only 13/9 (postage extra) from the N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Ltd.
“GIRLS’ OWN ANNUAL,” the popular Annual for the Girls. Price 13/9
(;postage extra) from the N.S.W. Bookstall Company, Ltd.
TIGER TIM’S ANNUAL 6/11
SCHOOL GIRLS’ ANNUAL 6/11
AUSTRALIAN BOYS’ ANNUAL 5/,9
AUSTRALIAN GIRLS’ ANNUAL 5/9
OUR DARLINGS 3/11
OXFORD ANNUAL—SCOUTS 3/11
SCHOOL FRIEND ANNUAL 6/11
SCHOOL BOYS’ ANNUAL 3/11
SCHOOL GIRLS’ ANNUAL 3/11
PLEASURE BOOK FOR BOYS 2/11
PLEASURE BOOK FOR GIRLS 4/ 11
BIG BOOK FOR BOYS 2/11
BIG BOOK FOR GIRLS 2/11
BIG BOOK FOR CHILDREN 2/11
BIG BOOK OF AEROPLANES . 2/11
BIG BOOK OF. MOTORS 2/11
BIG BOOK FOR TINIES 2/11
BIG BOOK OF ANIMALS 2/11
BOYS’ BUDGET .. 2/6
GIRLS’ BUDGET 2/6
SCHOOL BOYS’ BUMPER BOOK 2/11
SCHOOL GIRLS’ BUMPER BOOK .... 2/11
GREAT BOOK FOR BOYS
GREAT BOOK FOR GIRLS
GREAT BOOK FOR CHILDREN
GREAT BOOK FOR TINIES
GREAT BOOK OF SHIPS
GREAT BOOK OF RAILWAYS
GREAT BOOK OF SEA STORIES
BUBBLES YOL
OXFORD ANNUAL FOR BOYS
OXFORD ANNUAL FOR GIRLS
OXFORD ANNUAL FOR CHILDREN. .
OXFORD ANNUAL FOR TINY r FOLK. .
OUR GIRLS’ ANNUAL
BLACKIE’S BOYS’ ANNUAL
BLACKIE’S GIRLS’ ANNUAL
LITTLE FROLIC
PUCK
TINY TOTS
MRS. HIPPO
BRUIN BOYS
RAINBOW
CHICKS’ OWN
HOLIDAY ANNUAL
The Children’s Book of the Year
as a basement bargain
“SAILS OF. GOLD,” edited by LADY CYNTHIA ASQUITH, is one of the
best of the Christmas books. Stories by John Buchan, H. Belloc, A. A.
Milne and others indicate the high standard of this wonderful book.
“Sails of Gold” is the book of the year for the children. It will take
them over a sea of delight to Fairyland. The best value ever offered in
Sydney, this 7/6 book is offered at 2/11 (postage extra).
BRING THE CHILDREN TO SEE THE
WONDERLAND OF BOOKS
BOOK BASEMENT—Corner Castlereagh and Market Streets,
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD
(opposite David Jones), Sydney.
See Why 50 Miles an Hour
Seems Like 38
ẅ
—with the Graham-Paige
F our-Speed T r ansmission
A Graham-Paige specially equipped with a
Tachometer is ready for you to drive. This
instrument enables you to see why you enjoy
such quiet smoothness in fourth (direct drive),
why you are so relaxed at the end of a long,
hard drive, why wear on moving parts is lessened
and car life lengthened. Then try third for
swift, silent acceleration in traffic and up steep
hills —and for a new and safer control of your
car. Only by driving a Graham-Paige with four
speeds forward can you realise the new comfort
and enjoyment that two quiet high speeds bring
to motoring.
TRY THE TACHOMETER TEST.
w
Model 6is. Five'Passenger Touring
£AAMAM-PAl££


The COMMONWEALTH LIFE (Amalgamated)
ASSURANCES, LIMITED.
JAMES S. INCH, F.A.1.1., General Manager.
Authorised Capital - - - - £500,000
Paid-up Capital ------ £150,000
Annual Income Exceeds - -- -- -- -- -- £140,000
Payments to Policy-holders Exceed ----- £60,000
Every desirable form of Policy issued in the following departments:—
LIFE, ENDOWMENT, AND GUARANTEED BONUS POLICIES.
PERSONAL ACCIDENT AND SICKNESS, WITH NURSING AND HOSPITAL BENEFITS.
INDUSTRIAL ASSURANCES.
All Ordinary Policies subject to Guaranteed Interim Bonus.
E. 11. HIGGS, Secretary.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
The Block, 424-30 George Street (between King and Market Streets), Sydney.
w
LEIPZIG SPRING FAIR (GERMANY).
Incorporating Great Engineering and Building Fairs.
BEGINS MARCH 2nd, 1930.
BUYERS GOING ABROAD must visit the Leipzig Trade Fair, the
world’s largest Manufacturing, Industrial and Engineering Exposition.
Introductions arranged. Full information free on request to—
ŵ
Authorised Representatives: C. N. KEPPEL, c/o Marcard Lund & Co., Box 585 D G.P.0., Melbourne.
LARS G. BRUNDAHL, 6 Dailey Street, Box 3127 P G.P.0., Sydney.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
: BRITISH
MADE
Perfection
pitsr robber
BIRKMYRE’S CLOTH
(Eegd. Trade Mark.)
In addition to “ BIRKIVPYRE’S CLOTH "be-
ing our Registered Trade Mark the follow-
ing are also our Registered Trade Marks,
each complete in itself.
“L” “OM” "N"
“BX” “H’ "K" and “S'
Any one of these marks will protect our
mutual interests.
THE
GOUROCK
ROPEWQRK
EXPORT CO.
LTD.
379 Kent-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Charlotte-street, Brisbane, Q.
480 Flinders-street, Melbourne, Vic.
Model C.T., as illus-
trated. Suitable for
most American Cars.
In sealed
metal box.
Wt
m
9 1' r
m
A New Set of
LODGE
PLUGS
Is a wonderful
stimulus to your
Engine.
Lodge Plugs can be bought from
leading accessory dealers, garages,
and stores.
LODGE PLUGS, LTD..
RUGBY, ENG.
Missing Friends.
CIMPSON-WEB STER.—John Simpson
and Marion Webster or Simpson, Inn-
keeper, of Edinburgh, Scotland, 1838. They
had a son William, born in 1838, deceased.
Other descendants or relatives (advantage)
write Mr. TELFER, 16 Pirie Street, Adel-
aide, immediately.
\Y/ANTED KNOWN, whereabouts of
™ JOHN PARSONS, formerly of Warra-
gul, Victoria, last heard of as going to New
Zealand. Urgent.
M. DAVINE,
Solicitor,
Warragul, Victoria.
Amusements.
gYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S:
THE DESERT SONG.
Commencing next Saturday.
CRITERION: LO.VIBARDT. LTD.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2,3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
I C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
•'* MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
HOLD EVERYTHING.
MEW COMEDY THEATRE,
. COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
LEON GORDON in
MURDER ON THE SECOND FLOOR.
With ADA REEVE.
HOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
** MELBOURNE.
For an Extended Season.
See and Hear the Most Brilliant Singing and
Talking Picture of All Time.
UNIVERSAL’S MOVIETONE TRIUMPH,
SHOW BOAT.
Featuring LAURA LA PLANTE, JOSEPH SCHILD-
KRAUT, OTIS HARLAN, ALMA RUBENS.
Christmas Greetings.
’’J'. H. CHAPMAN: Christmas Greetings.
Every kind thought is with you. From
the Old Folks at Home. —E. COOPER.
Legal Notices.
pORDON WILLIAM CLUNES REID,
''" x son of Clunes Gordon Reid, late of
Abercrombie Street, Redfern, and Elizabeth
Simpson Reid, late of Woollahra, previously
of Petersham, near Sydney, in the State of
New South Wales, Australia, or anybody
knowing of his whereabouts or claiming any
interest in his estate, to kindly communicate
with BRADLEY, SON, MAUGHEN,
HYMAN and KIRKPATRICK, Solicitors, 27
Hunter Street, Sydney, in connection with his
interest under the wills of his said father
and mother. Notice is given that failing
receipt of any communication on or before
the 10th April, 1930, an application will
be made to the Court for Letters of Adminis-
tration of the estate of Gordon William
Clunes Reid.
"TO ALICK McIVER MORISON formerly
* of Townsville in the State of Queens-
land.
TAKE NOTICE that The Australasian
Temperance and General Mutual Life Assur-
ance Society Limited has instituted pro-
ceedings against you claiming an account
of what is due to it under and by virtue of
a certain Indenture dated the Twenty-sixth
day of December One thousand nine hundred
and fifteen made between you of the one part
and it of the other part. Unless you enter
an appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office
of the Supreme Court in Melbourne on or
before the First day of February One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty the cause may
proceed in your absence and you may be
ordered to pay costs.
DARVALL & HORSFALL,
243 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND
Brisbane.
Sir John and Lady GoodAvin went to the
annual concert given by the pupils of All
Hallows’ Convent in Ilis Majesty’s Theatre,
and were welcomed by Archbishop Duhig.
The school choir of over a hundred voices
opened the programme Avith Turner’s “Aus-
tralia, Land of Peace.” Marion Taylor
played Moszkowski’s “Caprice Espagnol”;
A. Scanlon gave the “Slavonic Poem” on the
violin and Kathleen Dallon sang “In
Arcady.” Fifty stringed instruments were
played .by the ' orchestra. “Christ in the
Manger” was the seen a, with angels singing
in the background, and Chesterton’s “The
House of Christ” Avas recited. Scenes from
“Hiawatha,” ballets and songs and juggling
displays finished the slioav. Amongst the
throng were Mrs. A. E. Moore, W. F. and
Mrs. Webb, the R. S. Taylors, E. E. and
Mrs. Edwards, Dr. and Mrs. Windsor, Miss
St. Ledger and Dr. English.
Three weddings took place on the same
evening this week. One Avas in St. Andrew’s
Presbyterian kirk, the principals being Dr.
Keith Alexander and Ohven Helen Keith, the
bride in ivory bridal satin, beaded in pearls,
with a H'oniton lace veil. At St. Agatha’s,
Clayfield, William Murphy -was united to
Marietta Antoinine, fifth daughter of
Mr. and Mrs, C. Lacaze. The bride,
who Avas given away by her elder brother,
Dr. C. A. Lacaze, aaus in white satin, the
lace veil being lent by Mrs. Austin Lennon.
The feasting Avas at Macknade, the residence
of the bride’s parents. At the Albert-street
Methodist Church, Geoffrey Robert Rendles
married Brenda, only daughter of the S. G.
Jamesons, of Sandgate. The bride wore
ivory tulle over silver. The reception was
at Atcheley.
Nellie Bramley is about to call a halt
for some months under medical advice.
Crowded houses still testify to the star’s
popularity and to public appreciation of an
actress who has never spared herself. She will
take the rest cure at her home at New Farm,
facing the Brisbane River, where merry
bathing parties disport at week-ends.
Lady Goodwin, with Mrs. N. A. H. Camp-
bell, went to the final performance of “The
Sungod’s Secret,” written by Llywelyn Lucas
and played in Bohemia. Mrs. A. E. Moore
received her.
At a meeting of the Alliance Frangaise,
E. Griffith Oxley and his wife receiving the
guests, a presentation Avas made to Dr.
Keith McKenzie, who is about to be mar-
ried. Portraits of the Comte do Tournouer
and Henri Tardent, both of whom died dur-
ing 1929, were unveiled, and a musical pro-
gramme followed.
Mrs. James
Shaw, a wo-
man J.P., wife
of J. Shaw, of
Clayfield, was
recently sworn-
in as an honor-
ary magistrate.
Born at
Newry, County
Down, Ire-
land, she came
as a girl with
her husband
to Australia.
She has a son,
in the Com-
m o n w e alth
Bank at Long-
re ac h, and
tav o married
daughters. She
has interested
herself in
many public
movements, and took an active part in sup-
plying soldiers with comforts during the war.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
“The Warrior,” the League of Nations
pageant, is proving so successful that an
attempt was made to get the company to
give an extra week, but the performers in-
clude business and professional men —several
are doctors —who couldn’t spare the time.
Kenneth Duffield has made a name for him-
self as a producer. The first-nighters filled
guinea seats to the tune of over £l7O, and
society women were well to the fore in
the matter of selling programmes and other
accessories. Dr. Ray Newling sang “Dem
Golden Slippers” behind a disguise of burnt
cork every night, while Dr. Arthur Chapman
collected pence in rags for charity’s sweet
sake. Dr. Harry Nott showed himself an effi-
cient stage manager.
The Mount Osmond Country Club gave a
shivoo on Wednesday afternoon, when presi-
dent E. W. Holden laid the foundation-stone
of the new clubhouse. After the speechi-
fying the ladies’ committee provided after-
noon tea in the old clubhouse to the strains
of an orchestra.
S.A. Boy Scouts have acquired a 50-acre
camping-ground at Scott’s Creek, only 10
miles from Adelaide G.P.0., but in a wild
bit of the Bills. It will be a rendezvous for
the Scouts of the Avhole State. Forestry is
part of the routine planned by S. A. White,
Chief Commissioner.
Adelaide University’s recent endowments
were announced at “Commem.” by the Chan-
cellor, Chief Justice Murray. It is to get
from the Government all the Jubilee Oval
and Fxhibition land. Here the Great Hall
will be built, facing North Terrace, with
Langdon Bonython’s £40,000; also, in the
lower ground by the river, a new library,
for which Barr Smith gives £30,000. And
an English benefactor left his Adelaide pro-
perty, Avorth quite £20,0t)0, to the University,
the city, or the Commonwealth, as his
trustees might see fit. Judge Parsons, his
cousin, has obtained it for the first-named,
and it will provide new housing for the
school of chemistry, first endowed long ago
by their uncle, J. H. Angas.
A note from London :
The association of Sir Archbald Weigall with the
Hatry smash puts an end to the ambition he has
often expressed to return to S. Aus. as Governor.
His resignation seven years ago on the ground that
the job was too expensive caused surprise, and so
did his subsquent appearance in London as a guinea-
pig director. His wife, as the sole heiress of
Blundell Maple, the Tottenham Court-road furniture
man, has a large income. But the Weigall side of
the family is, of course, poor. His father was an
artist, who also married money (he died the other
day when he was nearing 100), but he left a large
family of sons. Sir Archibald started as a country
estate agent.
Mrs. E. W. Holden left for England by
the Oronsay, taking her family; lier husband
follows next month. The younger daughter
will finish her education in Paris. The Ken-
neth Duffields leave for London early in the
New Year.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
The old Assembly Hall saw a wealth of
beautiful flowers handed over the footlights
after the demonstration of dancing by Linley
AVilson’s pupils. The small people who
stepped out the minuet were delightful in
white wigs, flowered panniers and satin
knee-breeches, and the bunnies would have
been a success in any warren with their
long pink-lined ears. Jack-tars in white
satin, flower fairies, butterflies and a rain
fairy all did their steps perfectly. There
were old English country dances, besides
Dutch and Hungarian ones and an Irish
jig- Miss Joanne Priest, Miss Jim Lee,
Dorothy Fleming and Felicity Owen Sands,
Pat and Audrey Savage and Erica and Mar-
garet Isaachsen were among the soloists.
The Coolgardic Liedertafel, which made
the best music on the goldfields from 1897
till 1902, got together 30 of the original 60
members for a concert at the Town Hall
Mr. D. Annear made a preliminary speech,
and Mr. I). .T. Davis juggled a baton as
capably as in the roaring days. The
“Soldiers’ Chorus” from “Faust,” the “Anvil
Chorus” from “Trovatore,” the “Bandits’
Chorus” from “Erani,” “A . Jolly Little
Man,” Parry’s “Sailors’ Chorus,” “The
Owl and the Pussycat” and “Martyrs of the
Arena” were included in a replica of a pro-
gramme given 30 years ago.
Mrs. Wilfrid Stow wore cream crepe de
Chine embroidered in lemon when she hos-
tessed a bridge party at the Karrakatta
Club. Pink carnations and fern made a
sweet-smelling bower of the winter garden.
The principal guest, Mrs. W. H. Vincent,
had green foliage patterning the beige back-
ground of her ninon gown.
Yet another party for Mrs. Vincent was
given at the Karrakatta Club by Mrs.
Oarner. The centre of the hall was trans-
formed into a jumble of ferns, and crimson
roses and feather fern decorated the tea
tables. Black floral ninon fashioned Mrs.
Garner’s gown, and Mrs. Vincent wore navy
blue witn matching millinery.
A memorial has been unveiled by the Gov
ernor to Detective Inspector Walsh and
Sergeant Pitman, who were murdered whilst
doing their job at Ivalgoorlie in April, 1926.
The police throughout Australia contributed
to the fund.
Mrs. Ernest Chase’s pretty daughter
Sandra found her affinity while spending the
last year in Sydney. The lucky young man
is Axel, only son of Colonel and Mrs. Poig-
nant.
The engagement is announced of Marjorie,
daughter of the D. ,T. Hearman couple, and
Mr. Geoffrey Maxwell.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
Fine weather marked the T.A.J.C.’s meet
at Elwick, and the lawns and flower beds
were at their best. Margaret O’Grady, wood-
nymphisli in her green silk ensemble, brown
hat and scarf, decorated the winner of the
Guineas. Mrs. Tom Lyons, in grey tweed,
with daughter Sybil, was among the throng,
also the Elliott Lewis lady, the James
Sprents, the Alan Walkers, Miss H'ook, Mrs.
Geoff Chapman, Mrs. Hay, the V. R. Rat-
tens, the J. E. C. Lords, Mrs. Tom Murdoch
and Miss Keir Mlurdoch, the Giblin girls,
Miss Anne Broinowski, Mrs. Fred Grant,
Dr. and Mrs. Brettingham Moore and Mr.
and Mrs. Chandler.
E. A. Stacey and Mrs. Stacey, just re-
turned from a trip to Europe and America,
have brought back with them their novel
idea for advertising the Speck. It is a map
of Tasmania painted green, on a white linen
cloth, and contains the names of no fewer
than 320 postmasters (no excuse now for
not knowing at foreign post offices where
we lie on the map !). Other signatures are
those of all the Australian Agents General,
and various celebrities on both sides of the
Atlantic.
The “Come to Tasmania” organisation
opened its “Week by the Sea” carnival at Long
Beach on a day that was seasonable enough
for the official opening of the swimming
season, though our Mount still showed white
to the foot. Illuminations, bonfires and
searchlights made things very gay all the
evening.
The Speck gives most of its sisters a lead
in the matter of S.P.C.A. activities. A hand-
ful of dog-lovers met at the Town Hall
recently, with Mayor Soundy in the chair,
and decided to establish a Home for Lost
Dogs with all the latest amenities. One large-
hearted member made himself responsible for
£5OO and another for £lOO to provide a
lethal chamber for the doomed ones.
Artist Harry Julius, who has been staying
some time with the John Eldersliaws at
Richmond, has gone back to Sydney without
being able to say much for our island
climate this spring. Still, he gives the land-
scape credit for being inspirational to color-
ists. and pats the backs of J. Connor and
11. Kelly for the way they are keeping up
our artistic reputation.
Mr. and Mrs. Jim Melrose (Barton) de-
parted on a holiday trip to England last
week. The George Gibsons leave at an early
date for Scotland.


WEED TYRE CHAINS
Grip and hold under all
road conditions, eliminat-
ing costly delays and insur-
ing safe, positive traction .
Every motorist needs them.
Made in Regular and De
Luxe Patterns. In sizes to
fit all tyres—pneumatic or
solid.
Order from your dealer ♦
■
V
0
rife
38
& 1
0
WEED TYRE CHAINS
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. ■
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Win. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business,
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Cuiwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Merry Christmas! —(Continued from p. J 7).
an’ buckets of water, but was forced to
let the damn thing go.”
.Tim Walters eyed the remains of the
thoroughbrace and bit his bottom lip.
“Seems funny,” he declared evenly, “how
it could all go up in a bundle like that.”
Sandy Jackson was troubled.
“Hell, James,” he muttered, “do you
think I’d go puttin’ matches to it?”
“I did not say that at all,” Jim Walters
swung around to Sandy. “You must have
been asleep when it started, that’s all.”
“Well, I wasn’t,” Sandy answered
abruptly. “I was makin’ puddin’s in the
ration tent when I heard it all flame up
an’ explode a hundred to the dozen.”
“Anyway, it’s all over and done with
now.” Walters turned and walked away.
At sundown the wind dropped with a
queer suddenness. The air grew oppressive,
suffocating. Round the camp-fire the men
sweated, not from the flames, because they
sat well back, but from the vibrating
thunderous stillness in the air.
In the yards the cattle had ceased their
everlasting mournful bellowing and murmur.
The stockmen around the fire seemed hyp-
notised. Not a sound broke the strange
stillness of the night.
CHAPTER XVIII.
Sandy Goes to the Laundry.
The blasting heat of late December had
gripped the country and was burning the
withered body of the ground into glistening
powder. The trees drooped, and drooped
more. The Eldeetil Waterhole fell rapidly:
Walters reckoned the
evaporation at close
to an inch a day. For
hours at a stretch the
spare horses stood
silently beneath hot
gidya-trees, trying to
draw comfort from
the shade. »
From an hour fol-
lowing sunrise until
within a few minutes
of sunset, the broad-
tailing-yard was gen-
erally filled with bel-
lowing, frightened
wild cows and calves,
some of the so-called
calves unbranded
beasts three and four
years of age. Through
nearly every second
night cattle were held
in the yards to have
the station monogram
applied early the fol-
lowing morning.
To work in the
heavy heat of the
yards, with a hot
branding-fire close
beside and frenzied
beasts creating a
suffocating dust, was
a bit of what Sandy reckoned Hell might
be. Men flung their shirts aside and toiled
barebacked, pausing at intervals to splash
water over their bodies.
“And a man can’t do anythin’ at all
to ease his mind,” Sandy grumbled at sun-
down after a particularly gruelling day.
“Here we got all this heat, see, an’ we
ain’t got a single mug of beer. Lovely,
ain’t it? Next pub’s a hundred an’ forty-
odd mile away, one way an’ another. I’d
—l’d even drink a lemonade if it was cool.”
“Shut your mouth, you squealer!” Alf
Eden snapped. “What yer want to mention
beer for? Beer! We can’t have no beer,
that’s all!”
“Yeh, we got cattle an’ old-man calves,
an’ unbranded cows what’s gran’mas—Hell
on earth an’ no wind to chase it away,”
Sandy answered grimly. “One week it’s
blowin’, next week it’s not. We got a
waterhole sinkin’ fast, an’ no fish in it.
Where’s all the flamin’ birds? Gone—
roasted without gravy! This is a world of
contrasts, Alfred. Look at the difference
between me an’ you.”
“Shut up!” Eden snapped. “I’ll”
“If you was dragged up anyways decent
at all you wouldn’t interrupt, especially
with your mouth "full. I was talkin’ of
contrasts. One day there’s a bush-fire;
next day nobody in the camp’s got any
matches. That’s contrasts. Two different
things cornin’ on top of one another at
the same time.”
He turned to the camp-oven and lifted
out quite a commendable pie, filled with
tinned black currants. Then he stepped out
towards the blackboys’ camp.
“Ardell!” he called loudly and paused to
listen to the echoes x'icochet along the dark
surface of the waterhole. “You lump of
plumbago, come an’ get your tucker!”
The stars were peeping quaintly, though
in the west they were covered by heavy
clouds which darkened the remains of
sunset.
“Lightning!” Bob Owen exclaimed and
rose quickly from a gidya log. He pointed
away through the still trees.
“Lightnin’! Where?” Sandy Jackson
pushed Ardell away and twisted around.
“That way, goat’s lunch,” Bob Owen re-
plied, pointing past the western extremity
of the gloomy waterhole, “Away to glory—
somewhere out across the desert.”
“Huh—what’s the use of water in a
desert?” Sandy grumbled. “Rainin’ in a
desert, an’ we’re here with our tongues
hangin’ out —an’ no beer, no ice—oooh, hell!”
“Shut up!” Alf Eden snapped again. “I
been thinking. We haven’t had the time
for a decent swim since we came here.
There’s still six feet of water in the hole
this end. What about it?”
“Yes, why not?” Sandy agreed. “I’ll have
cocoa an’ little cakes ready for you when
you come out.”
Alf Eden cast his clothes from him and
stood looking down at the still water, his
back to the blaze.
“Yes, what about it?” Bob Owen jumped
to his feet with sudden decision. “A swim
“Jim Walters sat silently on the edge of the circle of firelight.”
’ll go well.” He
also stood naked
within a few
seconds.
Jim Walters rose
from where he had
been sitting quietly
away in the sha-
dows. His thoughts
had been els e-
where. Now he
approached Bob
Owen and spoke
softly.
“Look, Bob, Sandy hasn’t had that idiotic
coat off for six months, I’ll bet a pound.
We don’t want his cocoa and cakes. Get
a couple of mates and sling him in. He’ll
never dream of going in otherwise.”
Naked figures flew through the fire-glow
looking ghostly against the background of
the trees, splashed well out into the water,
not waiting to look for treacherous snags.
Bob Owen whispered to several others.
They approached silently towards the fire
where Sandy Jackson had suddenly dis-
covered work to do. His huge coat clung
stickily to him; even the hot weather had
not made him discard it. He lifted his
head to discover four naked swimmers be-
fore him.
“Out already?” he exclaimed. “I’m just
settin’ this bread before I put the cocoa
on.”
“You’re coming in with us—right now,”
Bob Owen told him.
“N-no!” Fear entered Sandy s eyes and
he backed a step towards the flames. But
protests were useless. Strong arms gripped
him, held him, lifted him from his feet.
He was swung in the air. The procession
trooped solemnly to the top of the bank
and the firelight played on their figures
with a quaint effect.
“Hooray!” someone shouted from the
water. “Sling the grub well in—not too
far now or he’ll lob on the other bank.
Sandy Jackson writhed, bit, clawed and
scratched; but he was outnumbered.
“You lot of mongrels!” he shouted. “Me
No attention was paid to his outburst.
He found a strong man had gripped each of
his legs and other strong men held to his arms.
“Me bread!” he protested again.
“Damn yer bread—it isn’t bread, anyway!”
“But it’ll burn”
Someone dimly seen in the shadow acted
as conductor and shouted loudly.
“When you’re ready I’ll call one. two,
three!”
“Yes, we’re ready.”
“Good. One”
“Let me take me coat off an’ I’ll go
in”
“Two!”
“Damn yer—me trousers, anyway. Only
pair I got!”
“Three!”
The four strong men swung Sandy well
back. He gave a queer gasping sound, shot
well out and high into the air, descended
with legs and arms pawing wildly, then
splashed heavily into the water.
“I’ll—I’ll!”-— he spluttered as he rose
again and found that the water was scarcely
up to his neck. “I’ll murder you mongrels!
I’ll poison you!” He commenced to wade
towards the bank, only to discover that his
way was blocked by his tormentors.
“You’ve chucked me in, now let me get
out,” he appealed.
“Take them clothes off and turn somer-
saults and kick and go on like you enjoyed
it,” Bob Owen ordered. “If you don’t we’ll
scrape you with a blooming currycomb and
then wring you out over the coals.”
“They’re the only clothes I got,” Sandy
pleaded.
The low boom of far-away thunder
echoed along the waterhole as he finished
his sentence.
“You’ll undress and sling them clothes
out,” Bob Owen shouted. “We’re going to
put them on to boil and cure them with
coarse salt.”
SlOWiy oauuy ucgcm «« - ~
water. Lightning flashed dimly many miles
west and the men greeted it with eager
cries. It sent weird reflections along the
black water.
Sandy’s clothes flopped on to the muddy
bank and were taken away on the end ol
a stick.
Jim Walters watched the comedy from
a distance. He felt greatly refreshed fiom
a quiet swim. The surface of the water was
warm; but beneath it was cool and invigoi-
ating. He sat now on a root at the edge
of the water.
“This is the greatest little contrast ever
you had,” Bob Owen continued, teasing
Sandy. “You can tell all the ladies about
it some day—when you get back to Bris-
bane. Now, you got to turn a lot of back-
flippers, somersaults, ‘horsey-keep-yer-tail-
ups,’ and cat flops. Come on!”
“I ain’t- doin’ nothin’ to please you
swabs,” Sandy declared sullenly.
In answer two of the men stooped and
picked up small stones and lumps of mud.
“We give you five seconds to duck,” Bob
Owen threatened, “or you’ll get peppered.”
Sandy waited until the last second. Then
he acted quickly. He did various clumsy
cat-flops, back somersaults and other antics.
“Ain’t that enough?” he asked earnestly
a minute later.
“You used to like water when you were
a kid,” Bob Owen told him. “Do it all
over again and we’ll let you out.”
Sandy continued his forced antics and
when he rose again to speak he discovered
the bank above him was deserted.
“Dirty mongrels,”
he muttered, and com-
menced to climb up
the slippery bank.
Other swimmers still
splashed in the water-
hole a little further
up where it was deeper
and wider. Sandy sat
beside the big fire to
wait until his ward-
robe boiled. Someone
had swung a kerosene-
tin of water over the
fire and his clothes
could be seen like
half-submerged bal-
loons. He felt tempted
to take the tin ofi
and defy his perse-
cutors; but dread of
a return to the water-
hole held him. He,
too, had found, the
water cold beneath its
warm surface. He
shuddered at the
thought of it.
In the west a low
bank of clouds rose
slowly. Lightning
flashed through them
again and again, and
a distant roll of thun-
der gave a curious
impression of solem-
nity.
Wind' stirred in the
trees. It was little
short of midnight; yet
the one man asleep
was Pat Donovan,
who had retired
immediately after his
short swim. Somehow
the dip had livened
the rest of the men.
It was something more
than the usual swift morning wash in a basin.
Sandy Jackson sat quietly before the fire
waiting for his clothes. They boiled merrily
in the kerosene-tin before him and now and
then Bob Owen, Alf Eden, Pat Young or
another of the stockmen rose silently and
stirred them. They had been boiling for
three hours.
At last Alf Eden rose and looked at the
bubbling tin. “Well, I reckon they’re
cooked, Sandy,” he said; and Sandy dis-
appeared into the darkness with his bucket
of clothes and commenced to wring them out.
Jim Walters sat silently on the edge of
the circle of firelight. His face was turned
towards the storm, still far out across the
desert. His dream-thoughts were in the
distance; and Helen Delaney flitted in and
out of them. He was rescuing her from crash-
ing trees, galloping with her on his saddle
through torrents of rain; comforting her in
(Continued on next page.)


WOOL !
Special Monthly Articles, Inter-State Reports and
Statistical Information on the WOOL Situation.
A FINANCIAL, COMMEECIAL, AND INDUSTRIAL
REVIEW OF THE TEXTILE INDUSTRIES OF
AUSTRALIA.
Ufie TEXTILE JOURNAL
of AUSTRALIA
Established 1926—Published Monthly—64 Pages and Cover.
Subscription Rate, 20/- per annum. Overseas Subscription
Rate, 25/- per annum. (Postage prepaid.)
FRANK C. MARDEL,
Managing Editor and Publisher,
Temple Court, Melbourne, C. I.
Specimen Copy of the “Textile Journal of Australia” forwarded
Gratis on receipt of Official Request from Individuals and Firms
engaged in the Industry. Apply on lousiness letterhead.
There are seven
reasons why
1
Guinness
IS GOOD FOR YOU
No. 3
DIGESTION
Guinness is a splendid
digestive. The pleasant
bitterness of the hops
brings about a more
plentiful, powerful sup-
. ply of the digestive juices.
Guinness helps the bodily functions to do
their work well.
Guinness is a natural beverage is not pas-
teurised and therefore preserves its original
flavour and quality. Guinness will keep
indefinitely.
No. 4
EXHAUSTION
Guinness is a great
restorative. Famous
doctors say that it is very
valuable in cases of men*
. tal and physical exhaus-
tion. It is stimulating and nutritious. It
makes you feel better, and its strengthening
effects are lasting.
N.B.*—One pint of Guinness Foreign Extra Stout has a malt
carbohydrate content equal to one and a half pints of pure dairy milk.
■ G E 8 D/C
her natural fear of lightning, soothing her
with tender words. He could see her face
as clearly as he could see the great black
and white cloud-masses rearing like castles
into the air when lightning illuminated
them. Somehow the castles seemed real,
one of them in particular, to the north
of the storm, almost regal in its beauty.
Great stairways seemed to rise to its marble
whiteness on top. He would like....
“Jim, say—Jim?”
Walters started at the words. He frowned
and. sighed. He was back among ordinary
men again.
“What?” he grunted.
“What’s doing to-morrow?”
“Well, I was just looking at the storm.
At first I thought it was coming here; but
apparently it’s turning away a little to the
south, and it’s beginning to slow down a
bit. That means we can still muster, and
I was thinking of going away out beyond
the Chip Hills and getting the brumby
cattle.”
“I’ve heard of them hills, but never seen
them,” Bob answered slowly.
“Yes. I’d like to clean the worst of the
cattle up before Christmas,” Jim Walters
replied moodily.
“They’ll be a pretty tough lot,” Owen
remarked.
“The liveliest in the Territory—in the
whole of Australia, for that matter,” Walters
continued. “Only one or two men have
ever been out beyond the Chip Hills. I
have. Ardell has. So’s Sandy—once. We’ll
all see them to-morrow. They’re about
fourteen miles from here, and the cattle
aren’t just wild—they’re outlaws, every how
you take them.”
“What way are you going to work them?”
Pat Young asked from his position a little
in the shadows.
“Start before sunrise, go out past the
hills, muster back on to them, then bring
the cattle down and have the cutting-out
camp here on this claypan.”
“Where do they water?” The question
came from Alf Eden.
“I think they water at the top of this
hole,” Jim Walters replied. “They’re far
too wild to come in during daylight. They
usually come in at nights and go straight
out again. Fairly long walk—fourteen
miles in and fourteen out again!”
“I knew an old bull used to go sixteen
each way for months,” Alf Eden replied.
“Up on Alexandria it was. He’d come in
every second day or so, drink till he looked
like a pumpkin, then he’d labor out—sixteen
mile—to the little plain he used to run on.
We shot him in the end. Reckoned he
was trampling down more grass than he
was eating, and he was too old to do any
good.”
The men lay out on their swags, but
could not sleep. Every man felt eager to
get to this new job—anything to break the
dreadful hot stillness of the night. The
storm approached slowly, until it seemed
no more than twenty miles away; then it
commenced to break up in the early hours
of the morning, and low down on the
south-western horizon a few dull flashes
told of its slow death.
CHAPTER XIX.
Jim Walters Crashes.
The Chip Hills were things to be mar-
velled at. It seemed as though a range of
lofty mountains had been first shattered
and then scattered by a great explosion.
Nothing was regular about them. Great,
jagge’d rocks shot up, or poked out from
overhanging cliffs. They jutted up sud-
denly; a few were joined by rugged ribs of
broken rock and earth, but generally each
hill seemed to have been flung away from
all others.
The soil in the crevices and on small
ledges and down in the hot hollows was
of volcanic origin. Peculiar growths
abounded, hard, drought-blasted, spiny
plants, stunted hardy weeds. So broken
was the formation that there did not seem
to be even a gilgai large enough to hold
water longer than two or three days. Small
trees and bushes grew out from the crags
at all angles, as though the eruption or
explosion had taken place after they had
reached a considerable height.
West of the Chip Hills a plain extended
and the grass upon it was exceptionally
sweet. Cattle fed on it by night during
the hot summer and by day during winter.
“We’ll probably get sight of a thousand
or more around the next bluff,” Jim Walters
announced as he rode before the stockmen.
“I’ve not been here very often, but often
enough to have a fair idea of it. The
cattle should be well in under the trees
now.”
The horses had difficulty in keeping
balance over the broken ground, and pro-
gress was slow.
“When did it rain here last?” Bob Owen
asked.
“I’ve never seen rain anywhere in the
Chip Hills,” Walters answered. “It’s more
than a year since I was last here, and it all
looks just the same now as it did then. Yet
if you dig into the dirt you’ll find it quite
moist. But don’t ask me where the
moisture comes from!”
They rounded an overhanging crag, their
horses twisting between jagged stones which
rose out of the grass like monuments of
a dead age; and, ahead, cattle fed thickly
in the shelter of scattered gidya almost
as though they were being herded together.
“We’ll pull up here,” Walters said pre-
sently, and stayed his horse. He glanced
ahead—allowed his gaze to wander over the
plain before him, At the northern end a
ë
Fruit of Gold.
Pleasant ’tis to summon up
Happy memories,
Scenes and songs from out the past,
Such as long ago I knew
When around about me hung
Fruit of gold at Kurrajong
On the orange-trees.
There it was that from a height,
Lone and gazing down,
Farm and orchard met my eyes
Patterning a widespread plain
And a river winding on,
Wedding as it strayed along
Little town to town.
Arching all were azure skies
Radiant and sublime ;
And as there I stood entranced,
Breathing in the dew-washed air,
Came to me upon the breeze,
Now a thrush’s happy song,
Now a bellbird’s chime.
Happy is that man who hears,
Happy he who sees,
Back once more in days gone by,
Songs and scenes akin to those
That were mine when round me hung
Fruit of gold at Kurrajong
On the orange-trees.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Cry of the Town Dweller.
O I would be walking in the fields of
morning,
Where rain has been falling and the grass
is long;
I would be hearing a bird, bent with blossom,
Catching the dew in his song.
The bird might be a thrush, and the blossom
wattle,
Heavy and fragrant with the weight of rain.
I would stand knee-deep in the grass to listen,
Knowing I might not hear again
In such bright fields so pure a rush of song,
Nor feel my heart within my breast stand
still
At a shining line of sheep moving upwards
Over the rounded breast of the hill.
MAORILAND.
UNA CURRIE.
Not Even Spring.
I did not know why birds should sing,
Lest for some happy thought they had;
I did not know that, quickening, *
The spring could leave a heart still sad.
But now I know to-day may tread
Down joys that would have bloomed to-
morrow ;
Spring cannot quicken what is dead,
Birds only sing against some sorrow.
LONDON.
D.P. McGUIEE.


ẁ
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
ẃ
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&CIm.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offi«»: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
Macmillan's
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Australia and the British
Commonwealth
By the Hon. J. G. LATHAM,
K.C., M.A., LL.B., Attorney-
General of the Commonwealth of
Australia. [lmmediately.
The Sovereignty of the British
Dominions
By A. BERRIEDALE KEITH,
D.CJ-,., D.Litt., Regius Professor
of Sanskrit and Comparative
Philology in the University of
Edinburgh. 18s. net.
THE GREAT POLITICAL
BIOGRAPHY OF THE YEAR.
Lord Lansdowne
By LORD NEWTON, P.C. With
portraits.
NEW NOVELS.
Hans Frost
By HUGH WALPOLE.
[Dominions Edition.
Illustrated London News : “ ‘Hans Frost’
is a masterpiece. It is a splendid addition to
the long line of novels that fitly express the
breadth and insight of the English literary
genius.”
Whiteoaks
By MAZO DE LA ROCHE,
author of “Jalna,” the famous
novel which won the “Atlantic
Monthly” prize of 10,000
dollars. The October selection
of the Book Society.
[Empire Library.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2,
a
ass
5
m
m
X
I
✓
iis
■
*CT7T
WWW.+VW. B?.P'S.*XiBXSSsSSM
jAvexm/.*/*/esffsßs.Q/sSSi
f/yiiexms.mxtex’esevexeze/isn
liamx*’s.»x9xpxvzmvi»xmza\
\.:**vv.v/£v>:*/s.-exexp.x«ve*&
P'S.pxv/s.mv.p'Aexmxp'AWXWvm#
xm's.p/s.p's'p.ttpxpxmxmxmxmitp
pxpw/re *»#**«*«#*/*/**
{tpxmwAKxmzPxmxmxmitßiKm
97.w.j i .mxmstm*9xfB!xmx0 , *9'**n
xermae 'Amxe*B/s.v.'j!m*»*»itW
\<B*ezßzoses.Bs.ev»t ’ > ***//i
XS'spsrsvsßscsescsfMy
«#m.*ms»/0y
symzmemamxjß
• : -
w The famous
A ERTEX open weaved
THE co6l comfort and protection from
sudden changes of temperature so essential
in tropical underwear, are to be found in
every AERTEX garment.
Through the porous open mesh of AERTEX
the skin breathes freely and the extreme heat of
the day or the sudden chill of the night finds
the body adequately protected by the AERTEX
wonder weave.
ẅ
Obtainable from all Hosiers, Drapers and
Outfitters. In case of difficulty apply to
Mr. H. O. S. DREW
313/315 FLINDERS LANE,
MELBOURNE, Australia.
Representative of the Cellular Clothing Co.
Ltd., who supplies Wholesale Trade only.
AERTEX
«*ONOOt!
Thl
jl^
Label on all Garments .£v*
‘ *s
See this label on all garments
T5hQ
NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
HEAD OFFICE, MELBOURNE.
w
Capital Paid up
£5,000,000
Reserve Fund
£3,100,000
Total Assets
£47,431,823
492 Offices and Branches in
Australia.
LONDON OFFICES:
7 Lothbury and
Australia House, Strand.
Principal Office in New South Wales:
342 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Bank provides a complete service covering the financial
side of Australian Industry—including farming, grazing,
manufacturing, transport, wholesale and retail trade, as well
as import and export transactions. It makes loans against
approved securities and allows interest on money lodged on
deposit for terms ranging up to two years. Full provision
is made to meet the banking needs of tourists and settlers.
Agents throughout the World .
Do 2 Things
And Add
Thousands of
Miles
To the Life
of
Your Tyres
Experienced motorists every -
where are reducing their tyre
expense hy following these
simple suggestions:
First, they see that a gen-
uine Schrader Valve Inside,
in good condition, is screw-
ed into every tyre valve*
This wonderful little valve
inside is equally dependable
for holding air in either
balloon or high pressure
tyres.
Second, they screw an
improved Schrader No. 880
Valve Cap tightly by hand
on every tyre valve* This
valve cap keeps dirt from
damaging the valve inside
and is airtight up to 250
lbs*
Sold by Accessory Dealers everywhere
Schrader
Makers of Pneumatic Valves Since 1844
Tyre Valves:: Tyre Gauges
A. SCHRADER'S SON, Inc.
Proprietary Limited
422 Little Collins St.
Melbourne, Australia
SCOTT’S
“RENOWN” BRAND
ROPE, CORDAGE AND
BINDER TWINE.
Manufactured at Mascot, Sydney,
by
J. SCOTT, LIMITED.
Head Office and Stores:
163 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone: 82861. G.P.O. Box 251 DD.
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Monday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.


ẁ
ẃ


The Finest Gun Dogs
In England
are fed regularly on Ken-L-Ration, the
og food supreme. Rich in food value.
In 'Fns. READY TO SERVE.
A Perfectly-balanced Ration.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from
W.c. SCHWAB
P - °- B °x 1821, Melbourne
KgN.l :Pation
VICHY
HUMES
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE “ SANTWILL”
WORKSHIRT
7/9 EACH
3 for 22/6
A strong Sandy Coloured
Twill quality of soft finish;
Hard wearing—washes splen-
didly, liberally sized—finished
two Breast Pockets—all sizes
Mdil to Desk SB when ordering
PIKE
BROTHERS LIMITED
In Queen Street, Brisbane
The Battle of Vinegar Hill
J.H.W. ABBOTT TELLS
ē
w
ONE night in July—the moon being at
the full, which may be significant—
being at Parramatta, and having to
pass the night there, I found myself more
than usually possessed of the restlessness
which always besets me when I am in that
fascinating town of many tales and many
memories of Old Australia. I can trace this
peculiar restlessness back for over thirty
years, when, as a boy at the King’s School, it
led me —and others also who wore the uniform
of grey and red—into the breaking of bounds
without an exeat, the raiding of orange
orchards, the “borrowing” of ducks and fowl's,
which were cooked in the bush out Toon-
gabbie way, and other sins and offences
against the laws of that sternly-disciplined
but well-loved institution.
Two fine floggings I had in reward of such
restlessness, and I wish I could put the
clock back and have them over again.
And always, when I have returned there
for a day, or a night, or a week, has it
moved me with desire—often indulged—to
wander round and about the old streets look-
ing at the old houses, and in the beautiful
Park, and through St. John’s Churchyard,
and out on the Western-road, and across
to Prospect, and up to Castle * Hill, and
down to John Macarthur’s house at Eliza-
beth Farm, and southward towards Liver-
pool. The place is a story-book, of which
one never seems to come to the final page
—and, indeed, never will until “Finis” is
printed at the end of one’s own last chap-
ter. A book, also, wherein one may often
turn back and read with interest passages
unread, or imperfectly understood when
read the first time.
So, on this particular evening, after
dinner and a smoke and a drink and a
yarn with an old friend, instead of going
back to the hotel to bed, as would have been
seemly, I walked up Church-street, and
across the graceful span of the stone bridge
built by David Lennox, nearly a hundred
years ago, out along the Windsor-road, and
up to Castle Hill.
On such a clear night as this one was, 01
in the daytime for the matter of that, you
should not look back, , 3 you travel up that
road, until you reach the summit. In the
daytime the view is a most beautiful one,
with the town in the valley clustering amid
trees along the river; at night the twink-
ling lights in the moon-flooded hollow make
it as much so. At no time can you stand
there and not admire the Vale of Parra-
matta. So I sat down by the roadside and
admired it, smoking a pipe in the clear,
cold midnight air, and presently fell asleep.
And what must I dream about, of all things,
after gazing down into that lovely nocturne,
but of the bloodshed, and fighting, and bitter
sufferings that this hilltop was the focus of
a hundred and twenty years ago!
All those old fellows, dead these many
years, who have left written accounts of the
proceedings that took place hereabout in the
first week of March, 1804, seemed to come
hanging about in that vague fashion pecu-
liar to Dreamland. I recognised most of
them; there were one or two I did not
know by sight. The informer Sloane, for
instance.
There was the Rev. W. Pascoe Crook, of
the London Missionary Society, who had
been school-teaching at Parramatta and
preaching zealously each Sunday—obviously
a very earnest man. There was Major George
Johnston, of the N.S.W. Corps—l was well
acquainted with him, and had always found
him a likeable, gentlemanly fellow, even
though John Macarthur did rather lead him
by the nose. There was that fiery, though
intensely dignified, Irishman Joe Holt, the
famous “General” of the ’9B Rebellion in
Ireland—l knew Joe well, and loved him
as I loved Sam Pepys. There was his
Excellency Captain Philip Gidley King,
Joaa’ overnor °f New South Wales from
1800 to 1806—a man worthy of every respect,
though inclined to irascibility. There was Mr.
George Suttor, of Baulkham Hills—one of
the very finest of the earlier free-settlers
who came to Australia, a man whose child-
ren and grandchildren and great-grand-
children have had every reason for rising
up and calling him blessed There was Cap-
tain Edward Abbott, a distant relation not
in the direct. line —a harmless chap, who
tried to do his duty and keep one eye on
the main chance. He and Joe Holt seemed
to be as thick as thieves. His contribution
to the literature of the rebellion was merely
the evidence of the informer Sloane, who
was in his service.
I had recognised these out of many more,
when I woke up, half frozen, and pulling out
my watch saw that it was one o’clock. So
f S°f up, and walked about, and looked at
old houses in the moonlight, with hoary
pines growing about them that must have
been planted not so very long after ISO 4.
And that parade of those old war corres-
pondents took possession of me as I wan-
dered round the ridge through the hours of
early morning, so that I could think of
little else than the sad story of that pathetic
rebellion.
About three o'clock I found myself strol-
ling back into the valley towards Parra-
matta, with the brightly-lighted walls of the
big prison and the darker lunatic asylum
behind it on my right-hand side —and, being
very cold and chilly, wondered which of the
two I ought really be in for this attempt at
suicide by way of pneumonia. It was freez-
ing hard, as I turned into the Park across
the upper dam. I sat down and smoked,
and prayed for six o’clock and pub-opening
to come, and some of the hot rum that was
such a fashionable drink in these parts a
century ago.
But always I thought of those correspon-
dents, and it suddenly occurred to me that
the stories of Mr. Crook and Mr. Suttor
would lend themselves well to fiction such as
is practised in this part of The Bulletin.
By and by six o’clock came, and hot rum, in
some quantity, at the hotel —lineal descend-
ant of a very ancient Parramatta hostelry
—and a hot bath and breakfast, and I caught
a train to Sydney, and went home, and so
to bed, well content with the night’s adven-
ture.
But when I came to look up the Records, I
found that Mr. Crook and Mr. Suttor might
well be left to tell their own stories in
their own way. They were neither of them
official accounts, both were obviously truth-
ful, and they are not so well known, or
overwritten, as some of the others have been.
So here is what the Rev. W. Pascoe Crook
wrote home to England—probably to his
friend Mr. Joseph Hardcastle, treasurer of
the London Missionary Society, to whom he
had sent an excellent account of the first
abortive settlement at Port Phillip by Lieu-
tenant Governor Collins in the previous
year. It is a sort of postscript to a letter
dated Parramatta, Port Jackson, Ist March.
1804, and is itself dated Saturday, 10th
March, 1804: —
“I embrace a few moments’ leisure to
give you a short account of this rebellion.
On Sunday last, 4th March, Mr. Hassall
had preached at Castle Hill, and all was
quiet. In the evening as it grew dark a
house was purposely set on fire, and as the
general attention was excited, C , a stone-
mason, supported by the mob, broke into the
houses and took the firearms and ammuni-
tion. A party of them dragged D , the
nagellator, out from under a bed where he was
secreted, and beat him in a most unmerciful
manner. One of them presented a piece at
an officer, which providentially flashed in
the pan. C- got the mob together and
harangued them. After seizing on the arms
and a keg of spirits belonging to a French
colonel, a settler, they got to the top of an
adjoining hill. There they divided into
parties, each under a leader, which took
different directions, and went about to seize
the arms and ammunition of the settlers
and to increase their party by volunteered
prestmen. They were to have met neai
Parramatta and at daybreak to have entered
ic, where a party were to join them. Intelli-
gence was received by a watchman who
escaped from Castle Hill, and others who
fled from their houses.
“Parramatta was alarmed, and the drums
beat to arms between nine and ten o’clock.
We had spent the evening at Mr. Hassall’3,
but were now in bed, and living in the
skirts of the town, some distance from the
barracks, heard nothing till between one and
two in the morning, when Mrs. C was
awaked by voices, and heal’d one say:
“ ‘They will burn all the houses down
here as they have done at Castle Hill.’
“I was then called and informed that the
Croppies were coming, that Mr. and Mrs.
Marsden and Mrs. Macarthur were gone to
Sydney by water, and that all the principal
people had fled to the barracks. We slipt
on our clothes, shut up our house, took a
small bundle of linen and our little girl
that we had under our care, and, carrying
her on my back, went to Mr. Hassall’s.
“Here w r e found a Mr. Joyce, a settler,
who had been forced out of his bed at
Seven Hills, and had escaped. Having a
good horse, the commanding officer ordered
him out to reconnoitre. He shortly returned
and reported that the rebels were at hand.
Mrs. Hassall chose to remain with the
children and a servant, but we went with
Mr. Hassall into 'the barracks. I got a
fowling-piece, charged with ball, and stood
at my post appointed me. We remained in
immediate expectation of the rebels till day-
break, when the Covernor arrived from Syd-
ney on horseback, attended by his body-
guard only. He informed me that Major
Johnston was at hand with one hundred men.
They soon arrived, and our fears were in
a measure removed. We returned to our
habitation, and now Major Johnston marched
out after the rebels, fell in with them, and
defeated them.”
Before coming to George Suttor’s con-
tribution to what knowledge we have to-day
of the miserable business—which is the
contribution of an honest man who may
have had a little bias against Irish rebels
—it may be well to c.uote Captain Abbott’s
contribution to it. It was sent as an en-
closure i n Governor King’s dispatch to the
Secietary of State concerning the outbreak
and is probably the testimony of a liar who
was seeking to curry favor with the authori-
ties for Ins own ends. Headed “The Infor-
mation of Sloane, Overseer to Captain
Abbott,” and dated Parramatta Barracks
Saturday evening, 3rd March, 1804, it
goes like this:
“He says that he is acquainted with one
■*V , . > an Irishman (who is a countryman
of his), who told him that last Thursday
he went out to thatch a building at a place
called There or Nowhere. He there fell in
with one P , another Irishman, who is
employed to labor at Government work at
Castle Hill. P- showed him a paper,
which, he told him, was for the purpose of
causing an insurrection of their country-
men; that he was on his way then to Mr.
Williamson’s farm, at the Ilawkesbury, at
which place he was to be furnished with the
names of several other conspirators • that
either this evening or Sunday would be the
day to make their intended attack. K
added that he had suffered so much before
°n account of the rebellion in Ireland that
lie left P with a resolution of neither
being privy or concerned in such plans.”
From the fact that Abbott sent no word
to Sydney until the following evening one
would imagine that he put little faith in
his overseer.
George Suttor’s letter is to his patron
and friend Sir Joseph Banks, and is dated
10th March.
“Sir,” he writes, “I hope you will not be
offended at this intrusion, but from the
state of tilings in this colony, I am induced
to trouble you with this letter, giving an
account of the wretched state of my family
and a most alarming disturbance whicli
happened on Sunday night, the 4th of March,
1804, when between one hundred and two
hundred convicts rushed out from Govern-
ment settlement at Castle Hill —which, in-
deed, had nothing to guard it but a few
convict constables, the most of whom joined
them.
“Having seized the muskets there, the
whole body came armed upon the poor set-
tlers, plundered them of what arms and
ammunition they had, threatened their lives
if they made the least resistance. I had
three muskets placed to my breast, and my-
self and wife narrowly escaped being shot.
Overpowered thus by numbers, we were
obliged to submit to their mercy. In this
manner they continued to storm and plun-
der the settlers, till, having possessed them-
selves of a hundred and eighty guns, swords
and pistols, they determined to take Parra-
matta, which was guarded by fifty soldiers.
These they thought to overpower and get
their arms.
“Four hundred of them had by this time
got together, and they expected in a little
time to be fifteen hundred strong; but here,
either from want of courage and a body
of them not joining in time, they delayed
their attack on Parramatta, and retreated
to. Toongabbie Hill. They were led by two
Irishmen who had been soldiers. These and
others of a like description were very busy
drilling them and putting them in a military
posture. In the meantime a company of
soldiers was marched up from Sydney. Even
these they thought themselves strong enough
to engage, but as the soldiers approached
them they retreated towards the Hawkes-
bury, where they expected numbers to join
them in their retreat.
“They were overtaken by a party of
soldiers under Major Johnston. He rode up
to them and endeavored to bring them back
to a sense of their duty, but in vain. Their
cry was death or liberty, and a ship to take
them Home. However, the Major, by a
skilful manoeuvre, cut off their two leaders,
and the soldiers began to fire upon them.
They made , but little resistance. Seventeen
were killed. They began to fly in all direc-
tions till the night, jvvhieh was excessively
dark, put an end to the pursuit.
“Nothing can equal the horror and con-
sternation of the country, the women and
children running from farm to farm, but
could find no place to safety. For three days
we continued in this most wretched state of
suspense, knowing we were surrounded
by numbers of armed ruffians, as the fellows
had at first surrounded all the passes into
Parramatta. Many of them are by now in
the woods, and, being armed, the settlers
will be constantly exposed to them. Plunder
they must for subsistence. Dreadful, indeed,
must bo the state of a country when such
villains as these are let loose upon it. Every
insult, every injury and every crime is to
be expected from them that can be perpe-
trated by men so desperate, hardened and
depraved. Indeed, so many are the crimes
that have been committed by them for the
last twelve months that the' bare recital is
shocking to human nature —rapes, murders,
robbery. No person in the colony is secure
either in life or property, except the officers,
civil and military.
“Such is the state of things at present,
and has been for twelve months past. About
a twelvemonth since, twelve men left the
above settlement, threatening the whole
country, shot a man at a small distance
from my farm. At another farm two of the
scoundrels broke into the house, seized the
women, and ravished a young woman in
sight of her mother. Since that, this worst-
of-all crimes to society has several times
been committed upon the defenceless and
unprotected settlers.
“A fault there must be somewhere, or
these things would not happen. Where it
originates I shall not presume to say; but
surely it cannot be said that the country
is in safety while so large a body of them
that were kept to labor at a Government
settlement had no other guard over them
but a few convict constables and overseers ;
and what confidence is to be placed in them
the event has shown.
“When such is the state of the country,
what prospect is there for a settler and his
family? His business he cannot properly
attend, for he never lies down but in the
fear of being broken in again before morning.
I have sometimes thought that if I could
have procured a passage Home I would
have returned to England with my family ;
but a step of this kind, had I it in my power,
I should not have taken till I had first
made you, sir, who have been so much my
friend, acquainted with my situation and
seeking your advice. I hope I shall not
give you offence by this intrusion, and allow
me to subscribe myself, Sir —Yours, etc.,
Geo. Suttor.”
. Major Johnston’s report to his command-
ing officer. Lieut-Colonel Paterson, shows
the N.S.W. Corps, so far as its military
(Continued on page 57.)
“THE BULLETIN” £2000 NOVEL
COMPETITIONS.
The second of The Bulletin Novel Competitions will close on
the 3 1 st inst.
Prizes: First, £400; second, £250; third, £lOO.
The prize stories will remain the property of the writers; but The
Bulletin Newspaper Co. reserves the right to first publish them
serially.
The judging of the stories submitted will be proceeded with
immediately the competition closes; and it is expected that the
awards will be made by March 3 1.
Further particulars can be had from the Head Office of “The
Bulletin, 21 4 George Street, Sydney, or from any of the branch
offices throughout Australia.


Hanking, Public Companies, etc,
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock
Preference Shares
Long Term Mortgage Shares
Ordinary Shares . .
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
£529,988
1,875,000
703,125
3,750,000
4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
iJieat Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
a t interest for
fixed periods
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
BERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. •. 985,000
£2,235,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,485,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office : 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Beading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 850 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
Wt\e Register
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors —
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N Z TROTTING CONFERENCE
N Z HUNTS ASSOCIATION
NZ GUN CUUBS ASSOCIATION
n!z! COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISDAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAD ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNED CDUB
N.Z. GODF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. PODO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.Q. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of the World’s Dead In g
Advertising Agencies.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.’
PRICE
3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to Mow.
ŵ
N
OW you may see Hawaii
and shoot the breakers
in the matchless surf
of Waikiki Beach. And no
more desirable holiday can
be planned than a Union
Company Excursion Tour to
desirable holiday can
Union
Hawaii —that lovely island lost in the South Seas, lazy and laughing. in
sunshine. Canadian-Australian Liners, now commencing summer excursion
runs, will carry you with comfort and enjoyment through calm seas, opening
the fascinating book of travel at New Zealand, Fiji and Honolulu. Plan
to sail on one of the following dates: —
FEBRUARY 6
JANUARY 9
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne, C.l.
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINE
Excursions to Hawaii
m
V
ii
BURNS-PHILP
TOURS
JAVA
(The Wonderland
of the East).
OLD BUDDHISTIC AND lIINDUISTIC
NATIVE BAZAARS. EXCELLENT BIG-GAME SHOOTING.
BEAUTIFUL TROPICAL SCENERY.
EXTENSIVE TEA GARDENS. INTERESTING PEOPLE.
Regular monthly sailings
“MARELLA” (7500 tons) and
by the favorite vessels
“MALABAR” (5000 tons).
The Beautiful Solomons
Full of interest and romance and
situated only seven days steaming n.-e.
of Sydney. The comfortable and
popular S.S. MATARAM sails from
Sydney on December 21, and February
5, visiting 30 picturesque Ports.
ROUND TRIP 4\ WEEKS.
FARE £4l
Write for Pamphlet No. 52 fS to
BURNS, PHILP AND
COMPANY, LTD.,
7 Bridge Street,
Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1811
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
ẁ
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150.000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929, £90,806,297.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND - 4,200,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL - - - 4,739,012 10 0
£13,678,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COIIEN (Chairman); . ,
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND; Major-General
the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRY HURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts ol
the world.
ill Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, eif*.
BRISBANE.viaBYRONBAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening ; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOI.LONGB Alt—Every Tuesday evening,
passerigors due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Botli vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Set*
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single,
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, ±-7/1./-
Steamer and First-cla.s Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CIIAT-LIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Huddart Parker L'=
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LI MIT t)
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
The rare loveliaess
LAKELOUISE
/
7^
' y
V
V
1
. v
•4 <al
On
1
fflfjjWll*®
■ STEAM
Exquisitely coloured wood-
land scenery—in an amphi-
theatre of far-flung, snow-
crowned peaks; a jagged
profile to a most majestic
picture.
On the margin of this per-
fect lake, in a flower gar-
den, is Chateau Lake
Louise —open-air swimming
pool—boating—social life
—good roads —scenic trails.
Lake Louise reached only Tia
the Canadian Pacific route.
Write for beautifully illustrated
literature.
CANADIAN PACIFIC
247 George Street,
Sydney.
The Worlds greatest travel sijslm
WITH
his purchase of space
in “The Telegraph”
the advertiser acquires
the permanent interest
of an organisation
containing experts on
every aspect of the
printing business.
AND-
both reader and pur-
chaser appreciate the
workmanship.
The Telegraph
Newspaper Co. Ltd.
Queen Street,
Brisbane.


n y
or that other special occasion when
you feel you must give him a
present, let it be something useful.
A watch—happy thought—an Omega! Teach
him the true value of time. It will pay both
you, and him, in later years—tenfold if you
teach him this lesson now!
<4
In rolled gold, sterling
silver, and gold, a
fa
fa
l
VI
Hi a
M* &
T
omega
H
exact time fok
L I FE
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes youi
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
Let HILLIER 5
be your Father Xmas!
In the famous Red Box—posted to you the day they are made.
CHOCOLATES
ADDRESS-
162-166 Pitt Street
S Vt? N E Y~*
PRICES
34 5/6. 64 10/. 12/6.
204 AruL 304
w
J (PAT ON)
efficiency is concerned, in a better light than
has ever illuminated its sorry records before
or" since that day in March when it dis-
persed the rebels —shows that if it had few
morals, little honesty and no scruples, it
at least had “march-discipline, which is
one of the most important sorts of discip-
line in the trade of soldiering.
With two officers, two sergeants and fifty-
two rank and file Major Johnston set out
from the old barracks in Lower George-strcet
at 130 a.m., and reached Parramatta a
little after four o’clock. That is good going,
along a road that was only a rough cart
track —the distance is about 15 miles—and
in the uncomfortable uniforms of the day,
with their throttling leather stocks. After
twenty minutes’ rest, Johnston divided his
forces, and set off in pursuit of the rebels.
By nightfall his detachment, at any rate,
must have marched more than forty miles,
through half the night and a hot next day.
He went after the rebels, who had taken up
u position on an eminence near Toongabbie.
Here is his story of the encounter —it was a
similar “battle” to the Eureka affair half a
emitury later, and demonstrated, in the same
fashion, tile futility of an armed mob attempt-
ing to stand up against disciplined and
well-led troops
“On my arrival at Toongabbie I was
informed the rebels, in number about four
hundred, were on the summit of the hill.
I immediately detached a corporal with four
privates and about six inhabitants, armed
with muskets, to take them in flank, whilst
I proceeded with the rest up the hill, when
I found the rebels had marched on for the
Hawkesbury, and after a pursuit of about
ten miles I got sight of them. I immediately
rode forward, attended by the trooper and
Mr. Dixon, the Roman Catholic priest, call-
ing to them to halt, that I wished to speak
to them. They desired that I would come
into the middle of them, as their captains
were there, which I refused, observing to
them that I was within pistol-shot and that
it was in their power to kill me, and that
their captains must have very little spirit if
they would not come forward to speak to
me; upon which two persons (C and
J ) advanced towards me as their leaders,
to whom I represented the impropriety of
their conduct, and advised them to surrender,
and that I would mention them in as favor- |
able terms as possible to the Governor. G j
replied they would have death or liberty.
Quartermaster Laycock with the detachment
just then appearing in sight, I clapped my
pistol to J ’s head, whilst the trooper did
the same to C ’s, and drove them with their
swords in their hands to the Quartermaster
and the detachment, whom I ordered to
advance and charge. The main body of the
rebels then formed in a line. The detachment
immediately commenced a well-directed fire,
which was but weakly returned, for the
rebel line being soon broken, they ran in all
directions. We pursued them a considerable
way, and have no doubt but that many of
them fell. We have found twelve killed, i
six wounded and have taken twenty-six
prisoners.”
The return of arms taken from the rebels
in this engagement is some indication of
the confidence which the Major and his little
force of about thirty must have felt in
tackling the four hundred convicts. There were
twenty-six muskets, one fowling-piece, four
bayonets on poles, one pitchfork, one pistol,
eight reaping-hooks and two swords. And,
as an illustration of the kind of vac victis
which ensued, a dispatch which Johnston
sent to the Governor from the Hawkesbury
on the following day contains the following
significant passage: “C , one of the rebel
chiefs, who was supposed to be dead on the
field [Quartermaster Laycock had, very un-
necessarily, cut him down with his sword],
was brought in here alive, and I immediately
—with the opinion of the officers —ordered
him to he hung up.”
The only chronicler of the unhappy insur-
rectionists —and indeed they had much cause
to revolt against the harshness and cruelty
with which they were treated—is Joseph
Holt in his delightful “Memoirs.” But,
being a wise man, the “General” had declined
to have anything to do with such a hare-
brained scheme as he well knew the rising
to he —though he did not get the credit of it,
and spent a dismal eighteen months at Nor-
folk Island, owing to. the groundless sus-
picions of Governor King. Had he taken a
hand in the business there can be no doubt
hut that Major Johnston would not have
won the “battle” of Vinegar Hill with quite
so much ease.
Dead Man’s Shilling.
ŵ
BY MARGARET FANE
ẃ
BY the look of the window he could tell
that the time would be about right.
Not so early that he’d be running into
any people on their way to the pictures, and
Hot so late that an old man walking down
alone to the water would look too much
like meaning something. It was midway, and
(me of those thick dark nights when you could
just about see your way by the stars and
ilo more.
Old Harry’s eyes were dull and tired. He
knew every incli of the tidy little room -
the chair and table, the combination-chest,
the neat bit of carpet, the spotless green
tablecloth, the narrow, spotless bed. Mrs.
Bent knew her business, and did well by
her lodgers. The room was what she called
comfortable; and so it was, in a way: the
chair didn’t stick into your back and the
bed wasn’t made of bricks. But that was
all you could say for it, just as it was all
you could say for any day of your life. And
that was a silly way to be spending your
life. t If that was your share, no one could
say it was worth it.
Still, he had the feeling he’d like to leave
the room neat and tidy and comfortable-
looking. The drawers were all emptied and
his bag packed; he’d paid his rent, and all
the money that was left was there on the
dressing-table; his pockets were empty and
everything shipshape. If there was any
trouble for Mrs. Bent, the money on the
dressing-table would cover it. That was only
right.
You got into a dark and lonely place, it
seemed, in the end; and you could see all
of a sudden that there was nothing in it. it
didn’t matter what you’d done or how you and
put your back into it, the end of it was a
room, the sort of room anybody might have.
It was nothing to make a fuss about.
a stupid thing that you were lucky to find
out in time —before tbe Old Men’s Home got
you for good and all.
For years he'd lived here in the 'Loo, going
on day after day in the same old way. Bob
was dead in France, and Maude was dead ;
Alice was married and lived away up m
Queensland, and Gwen’s husband’s job was
in Brisbane too. He was all alone; for don-
key’s years be had been . all alone, drawing
his pension every second Thursday and get-
ting through the days.
Well, there it was. Nothing to make a
fuss about. Anyhow, the room was ship-
shape. All Mrs. Bent had to do was to
pitch his bag out, and anyone could walk
into the room to-night. His weary eyes
looked slowly round the room again before
he turned out the light and went downstairs.
Many a time he’d been up and down these
stairs.
Outside, the thick darkness he had expected
lay over the ’Loo. The faint starlight just
showed him the way. It wasn’t far, and lie
knew the place well. It would be a funny
thing if an old man couldn’t slip over to the
end dock and drop into the water on a dark
night like this. He’d swim out a bit and
then let go and drown. It wasn’t likely
that he’d struggle; it would be quiet and
easy enough, he expected. He had never
been a strong swimmer, and he hadn’t had
too much to eat the last day or two. There
wouldn’t be any fuss about it. In ten
minutes he’d be out of it all for good.
Everything was looking at him. This part
of the ’Loo wasn’t too clever ; they were a
rough lot mostly—police raids and such like
—and the quiet, blank-looking houses looked
like it. But they seemed to be giving him a
nod as he passed. It had been a long time
- too long. It was time he turned it down.
There seemed to be such a fuss about every-
thing while it was happening, and when it
was all over what was it? There wasn’t a
thing left that you could put your finger on
and say, “That’s mine.” The ’Loo nodded
once more in the darkness as he started to
cross the wide road to the wharves.
Stepping off the pavement he felt some-
thing under his boot, making it slither
slightly on the grit. Stooping, he picked up
the faintly glimmering something.
A shilling! That was a rum sort of a
thing for an old man on his way to drown
himself to pick up. He looked at the dark-
ness about him, puzzled and half-resentful.
Of course, anybody might find a shilling on
any night. But the thing gleaming in his
hand, this shilling that had come out of
nothing, the last that he’d ever see! The
last one of all, a dead man’s shilling, come
out of nothing at the very end of every-
thing !
He couldn’t take it with him. It would
be silly—as if it was just a bit of change
in your pocket. He’d fixed up everything.
His pockets were empty. But this shilling
—well, it was a special one: you couldn’t
get away from that. He ought to do some-
thing with it. A pie and a cup of coffee —
no, he didn’t feel like eating anything. He
could go round to the side door at Barney’s
and get a couple of mugs of beer with it.
But that wouldn’t be any good—only make
him feel happy for a bit and think every-
thing was all right when he knew it was all
wropg. He’d go home to bed if he went to
Barney’s, and wake up to-morrow morning
with all this business to go through again.
But he must do something with it. It
ought to be easy enough. There was a lot
you could do with a shilling, or there used
to be, in the old days. There had been some
shillings he had known.... A full tide of
memories came nodding at him.
There was that bit of a sailing-boat
fnarked a shilling. More than sixty years
ago, that was, far back in the days when
children used to get ha’pennies, and precious
few of them. The shop was gone now—
used to be just off .Crown-street there. He
remembered how he started to save up his
ha’pennies and go round to the shop every
day to make sure the boat was still there.
It seemed to take him a lifetime to save 12
ha’pennies, one by one, and then he was
only half-way to the boat. It w T ould never
be liis, he was certain, after all he’d given
up to get these ha’pennies together.
And then came the glorious day when
Uncle Ted arrived in Sydney from Junee
and gave him sixpence! He could hardly
wait to say “Thank you,” but ran round
to the shop for the boat. He had the shil-
ling, he had the shilling—his boots were
singing it on the pavement. That was a
shilling that had done a bit. A fine shil-
ling, that was, when you came to think of
it. You could make a shilling do a good
day’s work if you put your mind to it.
There was another one that he’d thought
he would never forget. Uncle Ted was in
that, too. Harry had been working for Uncle
Ted a couple of years up on the place at
Junee, and they were down in Sydney to-
gether—business for uncle and a bit of a
spell for Harry. Uncle had business the
first night, and he gave him some money and
told him to go tcf a show or something. And
he’d taken one of the shillings and paid it
to see “Macbeth.”
What a wonderful thing that was! And
what a shilling! He remembered coming
out into the street and looking at Uncle
Ted as if he was a stranger. The whole
place was strange—not real and true, like
the ramparts of the castle and Macbeth’s
thundering voice, the great halls and all
the color and richness. He went back to
his hard bed at the little pub, and couldn’t
sleep for that voice and that glorious life.
He couldn’t believe that it was really him
that had seen and heard it; it seemed as if
it must be a dream. For weeks, back at
Junee, it had haunted him while he was
at work. Another world for him. that’s
what it was. Even when it had faded and
was gone, it still seemed to stay with him
(Continued on next page.)


All British & Continental
CARS, TRUCKS AND MOTOR-CYCLES
EQUIPPED WITH
TecalemiT
LUBRICATING
TECALEMIT
HOOK - ON.
SYSTEMS
TECALEMIT
PUSH - ON.
w
mi
«L
4JJ
ft
can be serviced by
TECALEMIT SERVICE STATIONS:
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street
Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street ••••••
Keep Bros. & Wood Pty., Ltd., Bateman Street
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt Street
Martin, Wilson Bros., Ltd., 299 Adelaide Street
... Perth
. Adelaide
Melbourne
.. Sydney
. Brisbane
Factory Representative: Mr. JAMES THORNKLL, 312 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
TECALEMIT, LTD., Mitre House, Scrubbs Lane, London, N.W.10, England.
Please
them all
THIS
CHRISTMAS
y*\
Ml
tfJANi Jade
30/
I'%afi£uu
1118
ms
mmr.
m
m
w*
Km
K 3s£<(i
!m\\
Sfi
Send your
Greetings with a
‘Swan Pen’ and a
Tyne-Poynt’ Pencil
How adequately and completely
a “Swan” solves the problem
of Christmas'gift choosing. It is
welcomed by everybody, not only
for its everyday usefulness but
also because it is a Swan.”
The “FyneToynt” Pencil, too,
commends itself as an accept'
able and appropriate present for
either a lady or gentleman.
COLOURED “SWANS” from 22/6
(OTHER SELF-FILLING “SWANS”
from 17/6 Black or Mottled)
“ Fyne-Poynt ” Pencils from 7/6
Self-Fill ng “ Blackbird ” Pens from 9/-
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
Swan’
PENS
Illustrated Catalogue post free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
Swan House, London. W.I.
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depdt:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, Ltd.,
181, Clarence Street, Sydney.
5.F.230C
Black oi
Mottled
with clip)
27/6.
“ Fyne-Poynt"
Pencil
320/1
15/-.
FOR SWAN*
PENS AND
ŵ
like something that was his and could never
be taken away from him. You couldn't say
that that hadn’t been a wonderful shilling.
He wasn't seventeen when he’d spent it,
and here it was with him still, at the very
end
And there was another one, cm his honey-
moon. That was in Sydney too. Maude and
he were going out for the evening, and he and
stopped at one of these florists’ shops and
asked her to wait for him —he’d seen a little
nosegay of pansies in the window for a
shilling. lie had come out of the shop with
the posy, the bits of blue things all. stiff and
sweet, and given it to her. It was the first
and only time he’d ever bought flowers for
her. He could see her eyes looking up at
him now, and the glow in them. He’d
never spent a better shilling in his life than
that one.
There was Alice’s rattle, too. They had
laughed at him for that, and perhaps he
ivas a bit of a goat. Alice was only a
day old, and he’d driven in to Old Junce
feeling as if he was everybody. Maude was
all right and everything O.lv. —he could
remember it as if it was yesterday. He had
marched into Doolan’s store as if he owned
the place and bought a shilling rattle for
his baby. When he got home, still full of
himself, the whole place had laughed at him
and told him the baby was far too young
for a rattle. Even Uncle Ted had walked
over from the big house to tell him what
a goat he was. But he hadn’t cared. He
was the boss of his family, and the rattle
was there for the baby when she was old
enough. That was a good shilling.
And that one of young Bob’s, the one the
boy*had brought to him on his birthday—
“to buy yourself something with, Dad,” he
had said. Saved up out of his pennies and
ha’pennies, it was. He had put a bit to it
and bought himself a pipe; he never lit it
without seeing the boy’s proud face. That
was near twenty years before Bob went
to France in khaki for his country. It was
a wonderful shilling.
They were all wonderful shillings. This
one—he looked down at it in his hand —
ought to be another of them.
Looking up and about him he found
that he had turned his back on the docks
and was walking slowly up Brazier-street
to the lights of William-street. He’d been
thinking, he supposed. Well, the shil-
ling had got to be spent; it was Friday
night, and William-street would be a good
place to spend it.
All this ’Loo was full of memories. There
bad been the years up-country with Uncle
Ted, of course, and later on his own place
at the Little Farm which Uncle Ted had
given him for a wedding present; but he’d
been a boy here in the ’Loo, and he was
an old man here now. There was something
in that, when you came to think of it. The
’Loo was a different place to different people.
Some thought of it one way, and some an-
other ; and not many people knew it for what
it was. There was
“Hullo, Harry!” a quiet voice said in the
darkness. “There you are, then, taking a
walk.”
He looked up. Old Bill Jarvis was sitting
afl alone on the step of his little verandah.
The house behind him was dark, and Bill
looked serious and lonely. He didn’t seem
too well, cither.
“Why, Bill,” Harry said, “I haven’t seen
you since I had the influenza. How are
you ?”
“I’m all alone to-night. The missus and
Orace have gone round to the Gawlors’—
they’ve got a shivoo on there. But I didn’t
f el like going, not to-night.” Bill’s voice
ras as serious and lonely as his face.
“How are you?” Harry repeated.
“Not too clever.” Old Bill shifted a bit
o-i the step and peered up towards William-
street. “I suppose I’m all right, Harry;
but sometimes I get fed up with every-
thing. Do you ever get that way:'
“Sometimes I do.” , , . ,
“Us old chaps, you know—well, what s the
good of us? What are we doing here all
these years? I'm seventy, and what.s the
use of me? X set to thinking Id he bettei
out o’ the way—straight, I do.”
Bill shifted again on the step, and Harry
sat down beside him.
“I get to thinking,” Bill's dry old voice
went on, “that I’m outside everything, if
you know what I mean. I’m all finished,
and there’s nothing of me now.” He looked
round at Harry. “Did you ever get that
wav Harrv?”
“But there’s a lot of you, Bill. You’ve
got down in the mouth —not feeling too
good or something—but there s a lot of
y °Bill’s sad eyes watched him. “What is
there of me now?” he asked. “Tell me
that.” , . i, 4.1
“Well, there’s all you’ve done —all th
good times you’ve had, all the jobs you w
tackled in seventy years. That’s you, isn t
it?” f I
“I suppose it is, in a way. But what s
the good of it to me now?”
Poor old Bill was real miserable; Harry
was sorry for him. “Well, you can remem-
ber it all, can’t you? Keep it all fresh, as
you might say, in your mind —go over it,
once in a while, remembering this and that
and the mates you used to have and the good
times. You’d get a bit o’ comfort out of
that. We weren’t always old chaps, Bill.
Bill sucked at his pipe in silence, listening.
“I’m not the one to be talking, because
I get a bit that way meself,” Harry re-
sumed. “But it seems that’s about oir
share. And it’s not bad. There’s lots o
things a man can run over in his mind —
it’s surprising the way you can bring the
old times back again.”
Bill thought it ove-r for a moment. ‘ Yes,
he said finally, “I see what you mean.”
“There was an old fellow one time out
Junee way,” Harry went on, “who said he
didn’t reckon he was there himself at all-
only what he could remember was there, he
said. And no one could pinch that, he said,
so he was all right. He’d been an setor ia
the Old Country, and the yarns he could
spin”
Harry paused. It was silly for old Bill
to be feeling all done up, the poor old cove!
“Well?” Bill prompted. “What about this
actor? Out Junee way, you say? I used
to know Junee a bit in the old times. Wha* -
was his name —d’you remember?”
* * * *
Mrs. Jarvis came suddenly on them sit-
ting on their step. “Well, Dad,” she said
in her comfortable way, “you do look dif-
ferent. You were real down in the dumps
at tea-time. And now look at you. What’s
happened you?”
Bill laughed. “It’s Harry here,” he sanl.
“Been cheering me up no end, he has.”
Harry got up. “Only been yarning a bit
about old times, Mrs. Jarvis,” he said. . “I’ll
be getting on now. It’s late. Good night. ’
“Good night.” The quiet old voices
seemed to follow him down Brazier-street.
When he was folding up his trousers in
his methodical way a shilling dropped from
one of the pockets and lay gleaming on tin
neat bit of carpet. For a moment he stared
stupidly at it. ,
Why, that was the shilling he’d found
when he was on the way to drown himself!
And he was going to spend it in some special
way in William-street. Wasn’t he the for-
getful old fool —here he was back home with
it! It Avas going to be his last.... He
picked it up and put it under his pillow.
Getting into bed he chuckled. He suav
at last how to spend it —and special, too.
It would buy a breakfast for an old man
who wasn’t dead yet.
Mehalah.
I have looked on life, she said, and life has
been good;
Toil it has held, and the pain that all
must suffer;
The road has been rough, but in its roughness
I stood,
With a margin left for a rougher.
Now at last am I come to the end of it all,
Where the winds have softened, the tem-
pest is quiet;
But one pause yet, and I shall pass out at
the call,
With as little care as a ryot.
I have watered my field, and have gathered
my grain,
I have looked for night with a harvester s
longing;
But I bound not all, for a sheaf I spread on
the plain
Where the handless came in their thronging.
Naked I stood, and now shall I grieve for
the night?
Shall I fear the dark as it clothes me in
falling?
I have dwelt alone in my tent as an Arab
might,
Where I heard but the cry of the wild
thing calling.
I shall not be afraid for the end of the day!
Too long have I suffered the dread of the
lonely,
That I should turn from the last of the sun
with dismay,
When faces me death, and death only.
I have stood neighbor to fear, but I fought
the fear,
Though the pulses hammered in sudden
awaking;
But now is the fear all gone as a leaf at
the sere,
As a thirst that called for the slaking.
There is naught left to be done, for all has
been paid ;
I have taken my wage, and look for no
guerdon;
And now from the heat I have come at last
to the shade,
Who have borne the day and its burden.
She stood at the threshold old and gaunt.
The Great Unconquered met her with chaunt.
N.S.W.
MARY GILMORE.
Evening.
Come, leave the wind and the clover-bloom
my Starry-Eyes ;
Daffodil to rose has changed in the din
skies.
The tiniest magpie’s homeere this, and tli
last starling; .•
Folded under the mother-wing each tire'
darling. '
The little bronze moth is here, and the greet
and the golden-brown :
Lay aside the battered doll in her crumpled
gown.
Here in the dusk and soft dew where th"
boobooks bide,
The scent of the honeysuckle drifts like a
silent tide.
The dark bush mourns because it lacks the
bird-trill,
And quiet, quiet is the homestead on the
windy hill.
Angels are bringing tapers, and the Earth
sighs....
Come, leave the wind and the clover-bloom,
my Starry-Eyes!
QUEENSLAND.
E.M. ENGLAND.
The Mountain Thrush.
In the great cathedral of the forest,
From the green clerestory of the trees,
Comes an anthem, a careless high cadenza
Of sweet-toned harmonies.
Clear as a spray of crystal dewbells,
Fine as a fairy carillon;
Till the last note quivers into quiet,
And the unseen chorister is gone.
Never by the house-encumbered holding,
Not by the cities or the seas;
Only by the unregarded altars
Of the straight gum’s sanctuaries,
Out where the fern gives way to hazel,
High in a leafy twilight green;
Somewhere at the windows of the wildwood
Sings the grey thrush, all unseen!
In the cool cathedral of the forest,
From the far clerestory of the hill,
In the noonliglit, in the netted sun and
shadow,
I hear him, singing still,
Somewhere to the blue arch of Heaven,
And the winds and the water’s undertone,
Till a light wing flicks across the quiet,
And the fairy chorister is gone.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


ẁ
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker- Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents —llOJLiuus <* CMIiKCU, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office —03-107 T'eatherston Street, Wellington
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Victorian Office— 4 “Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. KMIKR, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, B.A.
Queensland’s Largest
Home-Read Daily
Newspaper—
“BßlSßANE COURIER”
Unequalled in circulation the “Brisbane Courier” gives to
advertisers the most effective coverage in City, Suburbs and
Country.
Tested campaigns have proved the "Courier” to yield 75 per
cent, of returns.
Carries more advertising than two other Brisbane dailies
combined.
FIRST IN CIRCULATION, COVERAGE, ADVERTISING
AND INFLUENCE.
Published by the Brisbane Newspaper Co., Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane
N.S.W. Rep.: Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85007.
“THE AGE”
Sstablished 185Jf.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you wish to stimulate the interest of the
Victorian public in your products, digest these
facts:—
Over 123,000 persons purchase “The Age”
daily (60 per cent. Metropolitan area,
40 per cent. Country districts).
Over 96 per cent, of the copies purchased
are home delivered *■ subscribers.
Over 95 per cent, of the home deliveries
remain in the house for the womenfolk
during the day,
and
Over 1,000,000 advertisements are pub-
lished in its columns annually.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation
123,533.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Cbc Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE A DVERTTSER” may be
obtained at all inter state agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price 1 id.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
P. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
3fis Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
Che mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
carries regularly a far greater total
volume of advertising than any other
newspaper published in Tasmania.
IT is thus, judged hy the use made of
its columns, the most popular
as well as the most powerful of the
newspapers of Tasmania.
PROFIT by the experience of the
leading national advertisers, and
place “The Mercury” first when
advertising is under consideration.
Average Net Circulation, 20,967.
IT is, undoubtedly, Tasmania’s ablest
1 and best conducted newspaper.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS^
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
F. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
r & dx
n . ~,, VOU
W tired, d P t slack. ba( \
V> aorta. the cau^ e « he s
f w^
sorts
Constipation - suffer “"“"^ink-
health. ss< inWf^; st ipation-^»
biliousness.
ev-' *** Teriona
Is coustrp
el ° P Jil care
nature 11
ing that.‘J>e is
tiling reiJ1 „i. .
not taken. o to * atonj^
Beechams P* 0 Je r on y -
rTZ atA V> TSt UK- and
Jo conquer c °“ stipa lief can be Jg e^ v taking
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX
V
TH,
Fir£ Calls in Bridge
SEE THIS WEEK’S ISSUE OF
95C0
NOW ON SALE.
Make Yourself a Paris Frock
A SHORT LESSON IN DRESSMAKING.
Surfing Styles
Summer Skin Rash
ẃ
64 PAGES
ẅ
X jp>
()j^
'Xy
0°
*>F
S 6 ‘ f
*
ev
<
s®'
aU •’
■••' ..'••■•* .«f
..-;■ 6 0^e-
; *5r v**”
c*\^>


;
SENSATIONAL
NEW
CH RYSLERS
ARE HERE
NEW FROM THE GROUND UP
IN PERFORM A NCE - CONTROL LUX URY AND BEAUTY
"Five years ago the first Chrysler car revolutionized automobile design,
performance and style. Our corps of great engineers now present new
cars even more sensational by to-day’s standards than was the first
Chrysler”
These additional Chryslers are not new models
in the sense of a few superficial refinements.
They are original creations. They are new from
the ground up —-new in outer dress, new in
character, new in type of construction, new in
roomy luxury, new in vitality, new in ability
and efficiency.
The new six-cylinder Chrysler "66” is in every
way worthy of a place in the group of Chrysler
cars. In its own field it achieves results fully as
revolutionary as the new Chrysler "70.”
It is typically Chrysler in performance, in
beauty, in stamina—and at the lowest price of
any six to bear the name of Chrysler.
w
TH€ N€W
THE NEW CHRYSLER "70” ROYAL SEDAN.
7a
THE NEW CHRYSLER “66” ROYAL SEDAN.
The new Chrysler "70” introduces such new developments ass
MULTI-RANGE GEAR SHlFT—Gives new pleasure to
driving; makes gear-shifting a joy even to the inexperienced;
widens the power range; shift gears as always, but with new
ease, new quickness, new quietness.
DOWN-DRAFT CARBURETOR—Not merely a gravity
manifold but a new principle of fuelizing; complete car-
buretion; smoother powier; higher mileage; quicker opera-
tion. Extra large mechanical fuel pump.
SYNCHRONIZED POWER SYSTEM.—Engineered as a
unit from radiator to rear axle; new flexibility, smoothness
and economy, still longer life.
ARCHITONIC BODIES.—New in principle, non-squeak-
ing, non-rumbling dreadnought construction; new strength
and safety, new slanting non-glare windshield.
Those and a host of other features put it farther ahead of
all other present-day automobiles than the first Chrysler
was ahead of the cars of five years ago.
Come to the salesroom. Examine these new Chryslers at your leisure.
Arrange for a demonstration; and you’ll experience the supreme sensation
of outclassing other cars on any road, in any test, and under all conditions.
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales .. . Larke, Neave & Carter Ltd., Sydney
Victoria Lane*s Motors Pty. Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Ward Motors Limited, Brisbane
West Australia Wm. Attwood Motors Ltd., Perth
South Australia Southern Motors Ltd., Adelaide
Tasmania Metro Motors Pty. Ltd., Hobart
New Zealand . Todd Motor Company, Wellington
New Guinea W. R. Carpenter & Co. Ltd., Rabaul
NCSIOI
