

-
mm
E DAY SERVICE
fl-
mrr- — ■■ 111 '>'■■■
' ' >:
< V i - Jf&Bkm
iy»ik
:
-
m
. . 'O
,S
: llllt
iPr
■
IIW ,
*-. ;•
■ *
tjfsn
sisti
rv
m
Developing
and Printing
Now for your Kodak Prints!
—precious little pictures—full of the fun and
excitement of Christmas. .
KODAK PRINI S—each one absolutely
permanent, clear and full of detail —delighting
both yourself and your friends.
KODAK PRlNTS—made and backed
by the world-wide Kodak organisation and its
unique stores of photographic knowledge.
Kodak Prints, Please /” It's easy to get the real thing all over
Australia—just say “Kodak Prints, Please!"—and be sure the
Words "Kodak Print" are on the back of each!
Kodak
379 George Street, and 108 Market Street, Sydney.
“The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Australasia)
Pty., Ltd.
250-52 Queen Street, Brisbane.'
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart,
662 Hay Street, Perth.
162 Queen Street, Auckland.
40 Princes Street, Dunedin.
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
East Street, Rockhampton.
Flinders Street, Townsville.
294 Lambton Quay, Wellington,
681 Colombo Street, Christchurch.
The Bulletin
(P/um, Cio&u <&ec.3l
Vol. 50- —No. 2602.
Wednesday, December 25, 1929.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


for the Library Catalogue and
terms, and lists on all subjects, which
will be forwarded post free on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
‘SWeJourf”
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON !
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised, in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
Mv Address
s.b :,‘V"
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
y>-
X*/
S 3&
HW 3
In Ample
Time
t
1
m
m
G
A good watch is one
of the most essential of
a man’s possessions. It
usually means the dif-
ference between being
in ample time—and be-
ing late!
Make sure you’re one
of the ‘‘early birds”—
Buy an Omega and be
in ample time for that
train, tram, boat —or
appointment.
Omega
EXACT TIME F
R LIFE
“The Examiner”
Tasmanians Oldest Daily Newspaper. Established 1842.
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads /‘The Examiner” because it has the
Best Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest
Overseas, Interstate and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
Tasmania’s Best
Illustrated Weekly is the
u Weekly Courier”
Published
Every
Wednesday
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANA<
who will quote you price for the
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
"MUSTDIE" Kills that Fly!
Although “Mustdie” is so
thoroughly destructive to
insect life, it can be used
with absolute safety, as
it is perfectly harmless to
man, beast, fowl and
canaries. Use the “Must-
die” Spreader, for it is
not only economical, but
ihe powder is distributed
lUKMinwam
S30MCU cnowraoj now
3IGJ.SQW
nu '
( Flies.
) Fleas,
j Bugs.
V Mosquitos
Ita. I J.
I *■'
/ y
more effectively, and w«
want you to get the best
results out of every ounce
of this great insect
destroyer.
Sold everywhere, op
forward 1/- in stamps
to Box 1520 G.P.0.,
Sydney. p
The Red Page
Soup: the Future of Radio
ktu'ng season °f goodwill unto
ail, it behoves everyone to give what he
linn',, e< ? au , s . e 1 lj ke “behoves,” I venture to
He up in the eager queue of givers with an
unsolicited testimonial. In few words: as a
lesult of many years’ experience I am con-
vinced that the future of broadcasting is
soundless. Radio will go on and on, until
the lads down in the Domain have the
lood at the Hotel Bismuth broadcast to
hem. The idea that this is already hap-
pening is fallacious, and possibly arose
nough hsteners-in mistaking one of those
broadcast plays for the soup course. With
difference P oss^e to distinguish the
I speak from experience. Broadcasting
has come into one Australian home anc
stayed there. It happened at one of the
veiy early trials, when low-down doubters
and all the fossilised inhabitants of Pes-
simism, including myself, were shouting
Impossible!’ I saw one of the first
broadcasts in Sydney and was immediately
converted. “Saw” is correct. The speaker
addiessed us in the customary “few words”
1 1 °m tlie hall stage; then he rushed down
the hit and apparently took a taxi to the
neaiest radio station, four blocks away,
where everything was in readiness for him.
1 he hall where we waited began to bp filled
with a familiar gurgling, sort of noise, re-
markably like beer being emptied out.
Ha\mg actually heard the speaker on other
occasions I had no hesitation in deciding to
buy a radio set.
Then, months afterwards, I went out to
visit my Iriend at Darlinghurst. It hap-
pened to be election-day eve, and my
friend had scarcely poured out the tea
before he turned on his wireless. Fifteen
street meetings were billed to be broadcast,
and when I left for home at 11 o’clock I
had no further doubt about the wonders of
this invention. To listen to politicians for
three hours and not hear them! All the
way out from Sydney to Narrabeen I kept
on saying to myself, “You must buy a
radio.” It was not until I reached Narra-
been however, that I appreciated what a
wonderful night radio had given me. So
exhilarated had I been and so enthusiastic
about at last getting a radio set that I
had overlooked the fact that I do not live
at Narrabeen.
There seems to be no good reason for
going into the details of where I do live.
Enough that next day I bought a set and
took it home, not, as might be, and actually
was, suggested, as a peace offering, but be-
cause of an enthusiasm which I now fully
believed nothing could quell. Unhappily,
I had not bothered about makes, and,
merely went into the first radio dealer’s I
came to. It was a serious mistake, because
you could hear things on my set, including
sopranos. In 12 months I had only one
enjoyable night listening-in; that was when
they broadcast a circular-saw plant work-
ing on hardwood at Dorrigo. Next day I
wrote a letter to the broadcasting people
expressing my appreciation of the item,
and they wrote back saying that unfortu-
nately the lady’s contract had expired and
she would not recite any more. Perhaps I
should never have looked at the set again
if I had not gone to the football match.
At the football match I realised for the
first time the full wonders of radio. At all
football matches I go out on to the line
and sit near the radio man, and officials
think I am his offsider. How I get there
it would only cruel the pitch to explain.
This day I had got there as usual and had
taken up my seat on the grass beside the
announcer, who, with'occasional flashes of
genius in anticipation, sometimes said a
player had the ball when the identical
player actually did have it. Altogether, he
did very well until the so-called “lemon”
interval. I thought he was stumped then,
but it was at this time that he performed
the miracle which brought my radio set
back into use. I am addicted to miracles,
especially miracles which I have witnessed
myself. The captain of the visiting team
had been prevented from taking part in
the game by that inevitable football injury
a bad head, and the announcer’s miracle
was to induce him to give a little speech
to Australian listeners-in. It was a master-
piece of appropriateness. “I am delighted ”
said the visiting captain, “to have this
opportunity of saying a few words. So far
my men are leading by 48 to nil, but I
know the sterling qualities of the Austra-
lians, and I feel sure that if they do not
rectify the discrepancy they will at least
do their best. I thank you.” I say that
was a miracle, and it was, because at the
time the captain of the visitors was in the
members’ bar over in the pavilion, studying
football tactics.
That was enough for me. With genius
like that in its ranks broadcasting must go
on and on, until, as was remarked in the
beginning of this unsolicited testimonial
the mulligatawny at the Hotel Bismuth is
relaid de facto to the lads in the Domain,
probably by a chap having a feed of chop
suey up in Campbell-street.
CECIL MANN.
New Hymns.
Dr. Barry is organist and choirmaster
of the M osman Presbyterian Church.
h ree distinguished Englishmen. Sir
W alford Davies, Martin Shaw and Percy
Dearmer, collaborated in making the col
lection of hymns, Songs of Praise. Among
other notable supporters of the book is the
Bishop of Liverpool, who described it as
“unequalled.”
T he authors assert that by the beginning
of this century 400,000 hymns had beer
published. Yet in seven important anc
representative hymnals published during
this century only sixteen hymns are com-
mon to all. Fifty are common to the six
largest! Could there be a more shocking
confession of the lack of Christian appea
in the vast majority of our hymns than the
statement that only one in eight thousand
is good enough to be adopted by six hymn-
book editors? Theologically speaking our
hymns belong to a past age when it was
considered quite correct to enter church on
). bright Sunday morning with sentiments
such as
Weary of earth and laden with my sin,
1 look to Ileav’n and long to enter in.
Having thus abased ourselves, the next
hymn can be picked with the idea of
cheering the people back to happiness by
offering a future Utopia with luxurious sur-
roundings which combine wealth with
beauty. An example:—
When shall these eyes Thy heaven-built walls
And pearly gates behold,
Thy bulwarks with salvation strong
And streets of shining gold?
The young are especially unfortunate in
most of these collections. What are the
children’s hymns that we remember best?
Here we suffer grief and pain.
Here we meet to part again.
In Heav’n we’ll part no more.
O that will be joyful.
And
'•'here is a happy land—far, far away.
Another children’s hymn of one of the
largest hymnaries is:—
Day by day the little daisy
Looks up with its yellow eye,
Never murmurs, never wishes
It were hanging up on high.
God has given each his station ;
Some have riches and high place,
Some have lowly homes and labor.
All may have His precious grace.
A hymn of equal merit might well be the
celebrated music-hall number:—
God bless the squire and his relations
And keep us in our proper stations.
Surely the prime need is to teach children
that a loving God has made a happy
world here below, right at their very feet.
Surely the main thing should be to impress
on the child mind that Christ wants us to
be happy here and now—not in some post-
mortem existence where pearls and gold
are the chief spiritual (?) attraction. Surely
the main platform in the plank of modern
Theology is “Service,” based on the know-
ledge that Christ Himself took every pos-
sible opportunity to impress His followers
with the same doctrine. The world has
made tremendous political and sociological
strides in the past 50 years. Current opinion
to-day is seized with the fact that each is
indeed his brother’s keeper. Hospitals,
orphanages and flying doctors are merely
a few of the many outward expressions of
this fact. “Service” is the battle-cry of
modern Christianity, and yet in searching
through the typical hymn-book we look in
vain for more than two or three satisfying
hymns on brotherly love and our duties
to our neighbor.
Of the musical side it is enough to say
that the music of the typical hymn-book is
bound in unholy wedlock to the theologv.
Most of the hymn-tunes we sing were com-
posed in the Victorian era, that barren
epoch in English musical history that
causes every musical Briton to hide his
head in shame. The “Old Hundredth” is still
unrivalled as a classic hymn-tune. Tallis
and his school shone clear above the Vic-
torian church musicians. The sickly senti-
mentality and waltzy efforts of the Vic-
torians were as far removed from the
dignity of the original church music as
Ararat from Alaska. An even worse in-
fliction, the “evangelical” and “mission”
hymn of a comparatively few years back,
simply beggars description. The celebrated
“Glory Song” wasn’t even a good waltz.
The hymns of this new “Songs of Praise”
have been carefully selected from the finest
poems in the English language and the
music is of similar worth. The few good
and universally-used hymns of other hymn-
books are included, but there are 400 others
(Red Page pontinued on page 5.)


Everything that Anthony Horderns’ say is based on “1 ruth in Advertising.
tamimer
those
loag
lazy
hours
>peat
out
of
doors
ft V" 'UU
'"'V.vl,.
MiiHiiin
PS
/^**rr*rnrwm\
\\ i n i A 1
7/
rrmrn
fcYAW'
\\
mrnm
(UMUIM til
• v\V
}
' v
YuyV N
n
&M'
rrrrrtft^n
nnrmrn
ffirnt 1
IBi
#
v'i\
r
s
£5
we \
nun]
UIIIIUVfTTTUI
i n n 11 n
unnrn:
m 11 / i 11 irt i >“
i
iim! mu'
£
V £
£
/
HZ2
;
A— H
Let our “out-door” furniture add comfort and beauty to your verandah and garden
Settee Hammock
‘ hlysian” Settee-Hammock of strong tick-
ing; includes diamond mesh spring mattress
with valance, pocket receptacle, two square
cushions andcanopy that adjusts to any
desired angle; back may be lowered
to various positions or level with bed; is sus-
pended by galvanised-iron chains from apex
of steel tripod. Price £l3/15/-
With extra-quality ticking. Price, £l4/15/-
Cane Suite
The "Rialto” 5-piece Cane Set, comprising
1 24in. circular table, ducoed top (blue or
any other required shade), legs of bound
cane, natural color with tango-shade relief
in upper parts; 4 low-back stools, 18in.
circular-cane seats and 1 Bin. high, with color
relief like table. This set is as suitable for
indoor use as it is for the verandah.
Price, the 5 pieces £9/12/6
Stick Cane Chair
No. 1 7 Stick Cane Chair and 2 Cushions
in blue and tango striped taffeta. A delight-
fully comfortable chair, ducoed tango, with
blue relief or any other combination of
shades. A wide assortment of other varieties
and sizes also is stocked.
Price, complete £6/5/-
If required in natural cane, with cushions.
Price, complete £4/16/-
Adjustable Arm Chair
This chair has striped ticking seat and back;
seat automatically moves forward when pres-
sure is made against back, allowing chair to
assume any angle. Price, in fumed oak
color, each 32/6
Price, ducoed any shade, each . 36/6
“Lounge” Garden Seat
This seat is sft. wide, with wrought-iron
framing, painted green, and hardwood laths,
varnished and secured to frame with bolts
and nuts. Price, each, £l/12/6. The shape
is one designed for comfort. Various other
designs are priced up to £2/15/-
“Ceylon” Lounge Chair
This exceedingly comfortable chair is in
blackwood, with eyeletted and laced sail
canvas; padded headrail in fabrikoid. There
is no leg strain in this chair, the leg exten-
sion being parallel with seat.
Price, each
75/-
Dept., Ground Floor. We deliver free city and suburbs only.
’Phone: M21fit
Day and Night.
Let Us Deliver that Parcel
We will deliver private parcels anywhere within our delivery
area, which extends as far west as Windsor, Richmond and
Penrith; as far north as Palm Beach and Hornsby; south
to Camden and Campbelltown, and to Sutherland on the
South Coast. And, for packages under 1 cwt. and measuring
not more than 3 cubic feet, the cost will be only one
shilling! Simply ring M 2401 any hour of the day or
night and ask us to call for your parcel. This service is
not to be confused with our ordinary free delivery (in the
same area) of merchandise bought at our establishment.
Postal Address:
Box 2712C, G.P.O.
(The Senior Store)
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.


It
PI
<L
u
*»
m
a
*
m
S
v.
\v
A
I
A\
2
/
k
DEWA'
I) EWA
BEWAIL
DEWAR
DEWAR'S
DEWAR’S DE
DEWAR'S DEWA
A R’S DEWA R's DE WA R ’S
AR‘S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
AIDS DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
EWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
'SDEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
WAR’SDE WAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWARS DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWMTS DEWAR’S
DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWrR’S DEW AR’S
DE WAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEW.
DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEVfc
DE WAR’S DEWAR'S-DE WAR’S DEWAR'S DE’
JDEW#R*
DEWAR’
DEWA
DEWA
DEW
DEW.
DEW.
DEWA
S
R
E
E
A
D
S.D
S
S
r i
b
A
AR‘
A
D
AR’
R
R
DE W A R’S DEWAR’S DEWA R’ S
»EW4»3*WAR’ S DEWA R’S
E WAR’S DEWAR’S
AR’S DEWAR’S
’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
S DE WAR’S DE WAR’S DEWA R’S
E WAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
WAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
'AR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
DEWAR’S DEWAR’SDE'WAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAE’SJDEWAR’S
DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S
DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWA'R’S
DEWAR’S DEWAR’SDEWAR'SDEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWA R’S DEWAR’S DE WAR’SDEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWA R’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’SiIf WM*S JSgMAR’S DEWAR’S
DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DE WAS^Df ! ifw/VR*S DEWA R’S
DEWAR’S DE WAR’S DE WA R jfc \§###§#&XirS DE WA R* SBE W A R’S
DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S
DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAERpiwAR’S DCWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAIfp)EWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAJB^DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
DE WAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAIR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
DE
DEW
DEW.
DEW
DE W
DE
DEWAR’S BE WAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWA-R’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
DE WAR’S DEWAR
DEWAR’S DEWA
BEWARES DEWAR
EWAR’S DEWAR’S
DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
DEWA R’S DEWA R ’S
DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
I.) EWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S
DE WAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWA E’ S DEWAR’S DEWA R’S DEWA R’S DE WA R’S
S
A
AR’S
S
w
D
R
S D
S
AR’S
E
W
W
E
D
D
AR’S
W
A
D
K
s
EW
R’S
A
D
R
S
W
D
SD
AR’S
A
vA
W
S D
A
A
A
A
AR’S
S
A
’S
A


I, •
■
W :
I
I®
a
SHIRTS
COLLARS
PYJAMAS
ItUwrtutJiit
MisylfcL 1
df
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
just as good. Here’s one inspiring verse
by Housman: —
How shall we love Thee, holy hidden Being,
If we love not the world which Thou hast made?
Oh give us brother-love for better seeing
Thy word made flesh, and in a manger laid.
Compare this idea with that of a happy
land far, far away! , ' . .
In the children s section of the book is
the immortal verse of Robert Browning •
The year’s at the spring, and day’s at the morn;
Morning’s at seven; the hillside’s dew pearled;
The lark’s on the wing; the snail’s on the thorn;
Uod’s in his heaven —all’s right with the world!
What a glorious contrast with “Here we
suffer grief and pain!”
The singing of hymns and psalms is the
only part the congregation are allowed to
take in most church services. Isn’t it
time we began to see that the part should
be a healthy and sensible one?
KEITH BARRY.
In Memory of a Musician
Australia has a habit of forgetting her
poets very soon. Kendall appears to be
the only one who is being kept in any
general remembrance. It is merely 24
years ago this month (December 29) since
Victor J. Daley died, and yet when the
name of one who was esteemed the out-
standing Australian poet of his time was
mentioned the other day, two men who
are fond of reading and can quote modern
Bulletin verse by the slab confused him
with E. J. Brady, who has the advantage
of being alive and able to remind the world
that he is a poet.
Posterity has not taken up its job in
Australia yet. The verse-writer sings and
starves—and then is forgotten. It may be
said that the poet dies because he writes
nothing that can live; but I question if
that is true of Dalev. The most musi-
cianly of all Australian verse-writers, he
wrote at least a few poems that might be
remembered above the best that have pre-
served the names of some poets of other
lands. He himself called his verse “shin-
ing shallows”; and yet—
What shall a man remember
In days when he is old,
And life is a dying ember,
And Fame a story told?
Power —that came to leave him ?
IVealth —to the wild waves thrown?
' Fame —that came to deceive him?
Ah, no, sweet Love alone!
Honor and Wealth and Power,
May all, like dreams, depart;
But love is a fadeless flower
Whose roots are in the heart.
Daley’s life was that of the troubadour;
a wandering of chance and accident. When
as a youth he came to Australia at the
invitation of friends who lived at Adelaide,
he landed in Sydney by mistake. “I’ve
been living by mistake ever since,” he used
to say. His first verses were published by
the Adelaide Star when he was working as
a clerk for Harris, Scarfe and Co. in the
City of Churches. His “success” led him on
to contributing to a suburban paper; then
he conceived the idea of going to New
Caledonia, but (another careless accident)
lost all his money at the races in Mel-
bourne whilst on his way. He stayed on,
writing to the Carlton Advertiser— about
horses; then, in company with Charles
Wesley Caddy, a musical tramp, he swagged
it over towards Sydney. For five months
he was editor of the Queanbeyan Times,
one of his few regular journalist jobs. He
returned to Melbourne in 1888 and stayed
for 10 years before going again to Sydney.
He did not get to New Caledonia until
1902, when he was broken in health. The
funds were supplied by a benefit concert
given at Sydney Town Hall under the pat-
ronage of Governor-General Lord Hope-
toun, who was a particular admirer. One
of the conditions laid down by the com-
mittee, mostly themselves creditors, ivas
that not a penny of the money was to go
towards paying any of Daley’s debts. To
guard against any such mischance, Daley,
except for a few advances, was given no
handling of the money until he was safely
embarked on his trip. It benefited him
only temporarily; three years later, aged
47, he died.
Daley was only partly Irish, although he.
was largely Irish in spirit. The O’Dalys
were a race of bards; but his mother was
a Scotch Morrison, and Daley went to
school at Plymouth. His start in life was
as a boy-clerk with the Great Western Rail-
way. In Australia he held many clerical
jobs, mostly in legal offices, although, in
regard to many of them, he took rather
than held them. He was a good clerk; it
was his mercurial disposition that made his
life one of perpetual penury; a succession
of dunning creditors and bailiffs. His boon
companion and evil genius was Harold
Grey, “The Pilgrim,” a reckless liver. Daley,
who had a keen appetite for companionship,
was easily led into many of his adventures.
There was, however, one sort of adventure
much favored by Grey into which Daley
could not be led. Daley always maintained
a remarkable reverence for all women. In
one drinking party was included a woman
of more than easy virtue who marked the
poet for a victim. Daley spoke to her
earnestly of poetry until she was in tears.
Some of Daley’s stronger verse, though
he did not think greatly of it, was written
over the name of Creeve Roe (or Craoibh
Ruadh—a palace in Armagh, Ireland, near
where he was bom; tradition declared that
the arms and heads of the vanquished were
kept there). Pie struck some deeply sym-
pathetic chords in such verse as “The Old
Wife and the New,” one of the best-
remembered of his writings. In general he
owed a debt to Swinburne and Heine. He
had a vast pride in poesy. At one
Bohemian party at Government House he
told Lord Beauchamp, “You are only the
viceroy of a king; I am the heir of the poet-
kings of Ireland”; and on another occa-
sion, “Any king can make a governor; God
only can make a poet.” His conceit was less
personal than belonging to his art
mediums. The poet, however impecunious,
was anybody’s equal. The humbleness of
his home to which Beauchamp used to
send gorgeous equerries with invitations to
the poet gave him no sense of humility.
As between the- Governor and the bard it
was the Governor upon whom honor was
conferred by these meetings.
It is a pity to let Victor Daley be for-
gotten. He deserves better from us.
HAROLD MERCER.
Books Worth Reading
This list has been compiled by a com-
mittee nominated by the Associated Book-
sellers of Australia and Maoriland. It is
printed to serve as a guide to books of
merit, though not necessarily with the Red
Page’s endorsement:—
General literature. —The Adventures of
Ralph Rashleigh; Hop, of The Bulletin,
by D. J. Hopkins; Life’s Ebb and Flow, by
Countess of Warwick; The Voyage of the
Discovery, by Captain Scott; On the Bottom,
by Commander Ellsberg; The Risen Sun, by
C. C. Martindale; Told Long Ago: Tales of
the Papago Indians, by Harold Bell Wright.
Novels of Literary Merit.— Hans Frost, by
Hugh Walpole; Nicky, Son of Egg, by
Gerald Bullett; The Hidden City, by Philip
Gibbs; Three Score and Ten, by Alec
Waugh; Black Roses, by F. Brett Young.
Novels for Popular Reading. —Courts of
the Morning, by John Buchan; Red Silence,
by Kathleen Norris; Queen Dick, by A. T.
Sheppard; The Hidden City, by Philip
Gibbs; Ancestor Jorico, by W. J. Locke;
The Small, Dark Man, by Maurice Walsh;
The Girl of the Golden Reef, by PI. de Vere
Stacpoole; Doctor Dick, by W. Riley; Black
Roses, by F. Brett Young; Millennium, by
E. Temple Thurston; Crashed, by E. W.
Savi.
A Satchel of Books
Great Navigators and Discoverers, by J.
A. Brendon (Harrap). Into 24 chapters
the author has packed the lives and principal
discoveries of the world’s greatest searchers,
from Hanno, the Carthaginian, to Franklin.
Dozens of illustrations and maps enhance
the lively stories.
Introductions to Modern Knowledge. —
Additions to this useful series of Routlcdge
booklets include “The Women of To-day,” by
Mrs. Dighton Pollock; “The Restless Earth”
(volcanic and other disturbances), by Pro-
fessor H. L. Hawkins; “Practical Econo-
mics,” by Harold E. Batson.
Men Who Found Out, by Amabel Williams-
Ellis (Howe). Child-biographies of Dar-
win, Pasteur and others originally broadcast
to English schools. Experiments are sug-
gested to help the child understand how some
of the finding out was done. Good of the
kind.
Bird Haunts and Behavior, by Charles E.
Raven (Hopkinson). The King’s chaplain
here pursues his pet hobby with quick pen
and camera in England and Holland. His
text is that the true nature-lover can find
complete satisfaction away from Alps or
fiords, and he draws ample illustration from
beck, meadow and moorland. A fine friend-
liness invests the page.
Boys and Girls Who Became Famous, by
Amy Cruse (ITarrap). Potted juvenile bio-
graphies of 27 illustrious personalities, rang-
ing from Bertrand Du Guesclin to Sybil
Thorndike and including Melba and Ciara
Butt. Anyone who would like to see present
reviewer off the earth has only to repeat to
him once more the sickly story of the child
Melba’s drawers being observed from the
stalls.
Death of My Aunt, by C. H. B. Kifchin
(Hogarth Press). This is a detective story
by a cultivated writer with a rare gift for
creating character. He gats an effect of
suspense chiefly by making his figures com-
monplace people, who do and say just what
is expected of them. It is a first-rate mys-
tery yarn, but its real value lies in its style,
and in its gently ironical presentment of an
English middle-class family.
Everyman’s. —The latest additions to the
great Dent library keep the standard at the
mast-top. They include “Alice,” “Through
the Looking-Glass,” “Phantasmagoria,” “The
Hunting of tin; Snark” and “A Tangled
Tale” in one volume, with Carroll’s original
illustrations; Moliere’s “Comedies” in two
vols., with an introduction by Professor F.
C. Green ; Prevost’s “Lescaut” and Merimee’s
“Carmen” in one vol. ; “Phineas Finn,” by
Anthony Trollope, in two vols.; John
Howard’s views of European gaols in the
eighteenth century, “The State of the
Prisons” ; and selected essays of Leigh Hunt,
with an introduction by J. B. Priestley.
One Man’s War, by Bert Hall and J. J.
Niles (Hamilton), is a striking example of
first-class biographical material sacrificed on
the altar of journalism. Hall, an American
aeronautical adventurer, has had experiences
that are almost incredible. In the Balkan
War he flew his ’plane first for the Bulgars
against the Turks and then for the Turks
against the Bulgars. He was in the trenches
for the World War with the Foreign Legion,
but transferred to the French Air Force and
had exciting times planting spies behind the
German lines. Later he flew in Russia and
Roumania and bombed the Royal Palace m
Sofia while the Sultan of Turkey, the Kaiser
and the Austrian Emperor were there. At
the moment he is in China, where he is
General Chan, chief of the air service a,t
Canton. In the Great War he brought down
nine ’planes and he has enough medals to fit
out a veterans’ picnic. These and many
other great things are recorded in a “style”
so loud that the book literally speaks for
itself. Anyone who can shut his ears to the
noise, to Hall’s bragging of the women who
have loved him and such vulgarities, can
depend upon being entertained.
Answers to Correspondents,
So notice fence,t o, . Mile character) Ml he' <«*» »/ Z“mZ' r^S^Son’’^'
Name and address must appear on the MS. Ao liaouny is uat
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unliss stamps accompany.
Fred Fitz: You’ve been studying Holly-
wood too hard.. . .Hilary G.: A thriller of consider-
able merit. But it must be shortened to have a
chance here.... Y.S.S: You are off the track half
the time. And Heaven knows the track you chose
is plain enough. .. .H.M.R.: Much obliged. If we
can find space, it will be printed... .Bulgan Wood:
Received letter describing a par. praising Duntroon
men as “a miserable lie,” and another with genial
reference to “a cowardly squib.” Thanks for
the “Dear Bulletin”. .. .F.G.: (1) Edward Dyson
wrote “The Old Whim Horse,” Banjo Paterson
“The Old Australian Ways.” (2) Lines are from
Mary Hannay Foott’s “Where the Pelican Builds.”
. ...E.W.C.: A story ending with the words “it
was a dream,” writes its own sentence... .V.G.N.:
“One Little Day” will not dawn.... J.F.: “Blazing
Stump Races” declared off... .C.S.M.: Good of its
kind, but more character-sketch than story.... 8.W.:
Deaf to the song of “The Jail Bird”... .H.J.A.:
“Big Fanny” an unwelcome guest. .. .J.J.S.: Levita-
tion story fails to make the ghost walk W.E.8.:
Snake yarn doesn’t bite.... It.W.S.: “He was thor-
oughly depressed” ; having read it, we are not exactly
bucked.. .E.R.R.: Hero “sunk in deep and indecisive
thought” left sinking L.J.G.: A bit too much for
Tony—and for us G.D.S.: If true to life we prefer
fiction E.D.: Same old stock baby that melts
the stony hearts of desperately wicked men.
.. . .R.C.: Inconsequential and gory.. . .Hecagus: Not
collecting any more skeletons found in the bush....
T.W.N.: Can’t share your enthusiasm for your
verse.. . .Buttinski: And outski... .A.LB.: See
nothing in your “Night”... .Kangemu: Like your
pen-name, a bit mixed... .R.0.C.: Anyway, cheered
to know that Hell has only “stokers seven”
Whitton: Can’t go all that way with your gentle-
man shearer... .P. 1.: Ask at the Mitchell Library.
....Washington G.: Looks more like a buggy-ride
than a sonnet... .T.A.P.: Two others got in before
you. . . .Cest: It doesn’t scan, doesn’t rhyme, and
doesn’t say anything... .A.C.R.: Cheer up; you
might have a long time to live Pom: T.ry it as
a Smoke-oh anecdote... .J.W.: You seem to just
miss.... Don: Like its honesty, anyway... .8.C.:
Nothing doing on “The Prince’s Highway”... .J. 8.:
Now you’ve made us blush!. .. .T.J.A.: Thanks for
“The Jackeroo’s Wedding”:—
The bride’s old dad, a feeble man,
Who's age is sixty-four,
He sang the song “The Bride’s Lament,”'
And waltzed across the floor.
The married couple ’mid the cheers
Were seated on the settee,
When all at once to 'their surprise
Were showered with confetti.
All the things that happened truly
I can’t relate to you.
So I’ll conclude this little poem
Of the wedding of the Jackeroo.
. ...D.P.: “Mount Warning” proved an ominous
title.... Cantium: Appropriate, but not appropri-
ated. ... E.C.G.M.: Whether happiness is or isn’t
a thing you can get a lease of is a mere quibble.
That page doesn’t care for the split hair.... Vo-
ltaire: Fact that one politician called another a
sewer rat is its most remarkable feature, and that’s
commonplace... .J.0.G.: “What is the Seng of the
Sea?” Dunno; neither do y0u...-F.M.: After the
drought was over, after the drought was done:
Accustomed not
They stand in a lot,
The cattle of the plain,
To frisk about,
In and out,
For they soon know
That they will grow,
On the pastures of the plain,
To live again,
To meet the train
To the city from the plain.
Arne Perdue: Like best “And nursing my ances-
tral Spanish spleen”... .E. 0.8.: Poor Clemenceau !
He never dreamt he’d be compared to Billy Hughes!
... . A’.F.B.: Better reply in the paper that started
it P. 0.: “The Writing on the Wall” refused to
move on to a cheque. ...T.M.: You re on a long
road if you want a girl like that. . . .E.M.O’S.: Don t
fane}' moralising.... Coleraine: Te dum, te dum, te
dum Cue: Missed R.L.W. : Know papers that
print that sort of stuff.... H.H.F.: Off Tm? Bulle-
tin track M.T.S.: Father Christmas returned in
good order and condition... .D.C.: Don’t like giound
that dozens have covered. Want it alive and Aus-
tralian. .. .T.O’S.: Dumped, as requested. .. .S.A.:
Better than usual, which is not high praise
W.H.S.: “The Bridge” is the worst of them
G.M.C.: You haven’t yet learned to make it sound
as if you meant it. .. .Mundudgee: Doesn’t get
there. .. .M.N.L.: Very, very faint.... 8.R.C.: You
don’t treat it nearly well enough. .. W.C.: No harm in
trying Newnes’s Newspaper Services, 8-11 Southamp-
ton-street, Strand, W.C.2 ; Newspaper Features, 23
Fleet-street, E.C.4; or London General Press, 8
Bouverie-street, E.C.4. But as a rule only the
work of established writers is handled.... Patch:
Robert Lowe (afterwards Viscount Sherbrooke) sat
jn the N.S.W. Leg. Council for five years—as a
non-elective member 1843-44, as member for the
counties of St. Vincent and Auckland 1845-48, and
as member for the City of Sydney 1848-49. He
returned to England in 1851, and became M.P. for
Kidderminster in the following year.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.L.: Sufferer gains sympathy but not cash....
C.M.: All four are still running G.H.F.H.: No-
thing- in either girls or gags... .T.P.: Technical
difficulties overwhelm you. .. . J.0.C.: Scratchy. .. .
R.R.: Tedious. .. .C.H.C.: A beach inspector should
have chased them away... .M.T.: Might stand a
chance if better drawn. .. .C.W.J.11.: It won’t do.
. ...M.C.R.: What’s wrong with his right hip?
E.R.W.: That worm has been turning the mangle
for years. .. .M.M.: Stamps used. . . .L.T. : Wish the
artist would stop H.S.W.: -Tam stealers warned
off. . . J.S.W.: Ardent suit-presser is an old friend...
J.M.: It bored us. ...A.F.: Her table manners made
us shudder.... P.P.: Drunk can’t sober up on these
premises.


FAMOUS
PORTS
\ /
m
I
i m
i
/
r
1 i
■
■ x
§ti
*V
. ■■-■;
■
■
Ki
sd
a


The Bulletin
Vol 50. —No. 2602.
December 25, 1929.
FED UP.
"What, again! Can’t Father Christmas think up any other present except those two silly old fellows!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
214 George Street, Sydney; Box 252188.
Victoria: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 21/9 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westiialia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Regent 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. Cd.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Sf n ffle copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: lOoz., Id. United Kingdom; 4oz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional ioz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4oz. or part thereof,
Id. lClsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
RADIO AND THE CHRISTMAS CHOOK—
By Cecil Mann .. . . . . . . 2
NEW HYMNS—
By Dr. Keith Barry, organist of the
Mosman kirk .. . . . . .. 2
IN MEMORY OF VICTOR DALEY—
By Harold Mercer .. . . .. .. 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ..5
A CHRISTMAS FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON .. 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
THE TRAGEDY OF ROTHBURY . . . . 8
KINGDOM OF DEMOS, by Thomas Courtney. . 8
WHY OUR INDUSTRIES DON’T FLOURISH.. 9
BACKSTAIRS APPEAL COURT .. ..9
THE BULLETIN’S JUBILEE 9
“PEACE ON EARTH”—A cartoon by Percival .. 9
POLITICAL POINTS 10
“THE N.S.W. LABOR BENCHES”—
A study by Percival .. . . ~ 10
SOCIETY (with four drawings) . . . . 11, 12
PERSONAL (with three caricatures) . . .. 13
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 14, 16
E., S. AND A. BANK 14
BRITISH TOBACCO (AUSTRALIA) . . . . 14
AMALGAMATED TEXTILES 14
LAMSON PARAGON 14
GORDON AND GOTCH 16
POVERTY POINT 17
“CARNIVAL”—
A frivolity by Mercer and Scorfield .. 17
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) ~. ..18
BEHIND THE SCENES AT “SHOW BOAT”.. 18
A BILLY HUGHES “TALKIE” 18
FRITH AT HIS FUNNIEST 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with five drawings) 19, 20
MAN ON THE LAND 22, 25
POPULAR WHEAT VARIETIES . . .. 22
, SAVING SUB.-CLOVER SEED 22
FARM & GARDEN QUESTIONS ANSWERED.. 25
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT 26
SMOKE-OH (with three drawings) . . . . 28
PEN AND PICTURE 31
NEWEST TALKIES 31
SPORTING (illustrated) .. .. ..35, 37, 39
SHEFFIELD SHIELD CRICKET . . .. 35
THE NINETEENTH HOLE 37
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE . . . . .. 40
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 42
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 43
“MERRY CHRISTMAS!” .. ..44,45,46
TWO COMPLETE SHORT STORIES—
“THE JUDGMENT OF SOLOMON”—
By F. Hives and G. Lumley .. 47, 49
“IF MIRACLES HAPPENED”—
By Henry Mostyn’ . . . . . . 49, 50
VERSE —By David McKee Wright, Norma
L. Davies, Myra Morris, Dulcie Deamer 46, 50
Next Week.
A JOLLY NEW YEAR NUMBER.
Three First-class Short Stories and Special Holiday
Reading and Pictures.
DECEMBER 31.
SECOND PRIZE NOVEL COMPETITION CLOSES.
ffiuf fy-uHeiz/rt
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 25, 1929.
THE TRAGEDY OF ROTHBURY.
The situation which has developed in the
coal industry is a tragedy of selfishness,
cowardice and ineptitude. First causes go
back very far—go back to the days when
it became the fashion to pet and pamper
and coddle this industry. At that time the
export trade was large and valuable, and
the quicker the loading was done the better.
Several vessels might come in together,
and enough men were collected to satisfy
this exceptional demand. Thus it came
about that, since men might in such circum-
-'stances get no more than two or three days’
work a week, the hewing rate was forced up
to a figure that would enable them to live
even though they were idle half their time.
Such a state of affairs inevitably produced
trouble. For one thing it allowed employ-
ers and ignorant or wilfully unfair news-
papers to allege that certain men were
earning fabulous wages; on the other hand,
it enabled union officials and ignorant or
wilfully unfair newspapers to allege that
certain men were starving. And the more
these things were said the more bitter
became the feeling and the more difficult
to compose any differences that arose.
Then came the war, with Mr. Hughes
in power, and, to their discredit, the miners
chose the occasion to make demands. It was
a time when some things had to be done
no matter what they cost. Mr. Hughes,
with one 'war to win, did not seek another.
“Give them what they want and push it on
to the public,” he said in effect, through a
tribunal appointed for the purpose. The
scheme answered wonderfully. The miners
got what they wanted. The owners gained
something instead of, as usual, losing a bit.
The public was inarticulate: it put its hand
deeper into its pocket, and wondered dully
if that was the end. Of course it was not
the end. So good a way out of difficulties
was not going to be abandoned either by
politicians, or those amazing creations of
politicians, the horde of industrial com-
missions and tribunals and courts of arbi-
tration.
Matters steadily got worse in the coal
trade. The export business fell away to
almost nothing, partly because oil has
largely replaced coal for fuel; pai’tly be-
cause, while the workers of most other
countries either accepted reduced wages
or worked harder after the war, there have
been no such changes in Australia. The
owners repeatedly asked for a readjust-
ment of wages to meet the new conditions.
They could not get it. Then what
had happened a score of times before hap-
pened again. On the one side there were
stories of men who were drawing £l5 or
more a week and ran racing ponies and so
on. On the other there were tales of
privation. Both were true. Poor mines were
being kept open, and a hewing rate was
being maintained which, while barely allow-
ing their workers to live, provided almost
luxury for the men in the best mines. The
owners of the best mines, who knew that
they ought to be able to re-capture the
lost export trade, demanded some reduc-
tion of the hewing rate. They declared—
and without a doubt it was true—that
the increased output would more than
repay the miners. The miners said “Come
to the tribunal.” This tribunal ought to
have been abolished long before. It was of
no consequence whatever. *lt was something
left over from Hughes's war creation.
Instead of appealing to this tribunal the
owners declared that it would not pay them
to keep their mines open. It was a lock-
out: there can be no question about that.
After this it is nearly all chaos, in which,
especially until a w r eek or so ago, the only
people who compel any admiration at all
are the miners themselves. While hundreds of
them and their families have suffered keenly,
they have been made the tools and the
puppets of political and other adventurers.
Even Bruce, an entirely honest and fair-
dealing man, was put into the position of
seeming to do them a wrong and an injus-
tice. The prosecution of John
should never have been withdrawn; it was
important, most important, to ascertain if
the law had been broken, and if the law-
breakers were the coalmine owners of N. S.
Wales. Of course Mr. Bruce did it for the
best. But that is no answer to these miners
who say: “You tell us to. obey the law,but
when our opponents break the law, you will
not prosecute them!” A settlement was
again dangled before these unfortunate
men as the reason for withdrawing the
prosecution. It was never reached; but the
prosecution was never resumed.
Then came the Federal election, and
again the men were made the puppets of
adventurers. No more wicked and cruel
thing was ever done in the public life of this
country than to promise that if Labor was
returned the men would be back in the
mines within a fortnight without loss of
pay. By this disreputable trick they were
further lured on, further heartened, and
again let down.
Finally, their own immediate leaders
failed them. These leaders went to a con-
ference with the owners and accepted certain
terms, subject to confirmation. If those
terms were not the best it was possible
to get in any peaceful way, they should
not have been accepted. Having been
accepted there was only one thing to do: to
fight for their confirmation. The leaders
either let the miners down in the conference
by accepting terms which they should
not have accepted, or let them down after-
wards by abandoning the terms as soon as
opposition was shown.
The final act in the long tragedy was
prepared when arrangements were made for
the mobilisation of the men at Rothbury,
to which a few free laborers had been intro-
duced. This mobilisation was madness, and
whoever was responsible for it is either
a colossal fool or a callous adventurer who
regards these unfortunate men as pawns in
some game he is playing or thinks he is
playing. The newspapers which published
provocative articles and headings are acces-
sories.
So even in the face of the Rothbury
outburst—indeed, partly because of the
Rothbury outburst— The Bulletin asks for
a more sympathetic feeling towards these
Maitland miners. They haye been tricked
and duped and deluded; they have been
the victims of politicians’ makeshifts and
promises; they have been given far too
good a reason for believing that they can
put no trust in the law. Of course there
must be law and order. But that com-
munity is happiest in which there is least
need to talk about those things—in which
the law r is obeyed implicitly and order just
naturally happens. And that can only come
when sections of the community, such as
these miners, though embittered, believe,
nevertheless, that the majority will see that
justice also is done.
THE KINGDOM OF DEMOS.
Thomas Courtney was the man whose
brilliant leaders made the Sydney
Daily Telegraph a great political
power. From his retirement he now
gives The Bulletin the benefit of his
reflections upon the present position of
Australia.
Back in the last century someone in a
mighty voice declared that “representative
government was on its trial.” He missed
the mark. The wrong man was in the dock.
Parliamentary government had been
arraigned under the name of representa-
tive government. The accused could qasily
have proved an alibi.
In the British Empire there is no repre-
sentative government. Parliamentary gov-
ernment is class government, and under
the present system it can never be any-
thing else. All the talk we hear about such
government “representing the community
as a whole” is moonshine. It represents
the majority of the people, great or small,
by which it is elected. Let any Govern-
ment try to put the interests of the com-
munity as a whole above the interests of
the class composing that majority and see
where it will find itself.
For over six years the party led by Mr.
Bruce held down the party led by Mr.
Scullin. Now the Scullin party is in a
position to retaliate, and makes no secret
of its intention to do so. Meanwhile there
is a call to the Nationalists to reorganise
for the purpose of getting the Scullin party
down and bringing it again under the iron
rod. As long as the present system mis-
called representative government lasts, this
is all that can be looked forward to. An
unending class struggle.
Calling a class a majority makes no more
difference than calling a rose by any other
name. Some smug apologist for this sys-
tem says that every minority has the right
to convert itself into a majority. Just so.
It has the right to develop a stronger biceps
than the other fellow, and, if it can, knock
him down and rifle his pockets. Of such
is the kingdom of Demos!
As a matter of fact, Parliamentary gov-
ernment in England was not intended to
be representative government. The King
is still constitutionally supposed to be the
legislator. He “enacts” laws on the advice
of Parliament. Theoretically there is no
compulsion, only he must. The constitu-
tional supposition to this day is that Par-
liament buys legislative concessions from
the monarch with grants of money. What
else is the idea at the. back of redress of
grievances before granting supply?
At first serving in Parliament was com-
pulsory, as serving on juries is now. In-
stead of moving Heaven and earth to get
into Parliament, in the early Plantagenet
times men used to do all they could to
keep out of it. Why? Because the only
function of Parliament was to provide the
monarch With money with which to govern,
not in the exclusive interest of their class,
but Supposedly in the interest of all classes
alike. They did not like it.
Originally the Commons and the Peers
made their grants separately, and each
party bargained for concessions to its own
class in return. Such was the beginning
of Parliamentary government; and, far
as it may have developed since then, the
essentials of the system have undergone
very little change. The party in power
forces money from the people in the form
of taxes, which money, through the agency
of the Crown, is disbursed for the benefit
of the section which puts that party there.
And by its advice, on the acceptance of
which granting of supply is conditional, the
Crown agrees to the enactment of laws
favorable to such section.
The Labor party is candid. It makes no
bones about standing for class government.
It came in with the slogan, “Support in
return for concessions.” Like Jacky the
abo., it says “No tickapence, no hallelujah.”
The Nationalists, whoever they may be, just
now have a more polite way of putting it,
but their political god is class-self all the
same.
This has brought the Parliamentary sys-
to an auction mart, in which power is
offered to the highest bidder in class con-
cessions. And that is called representa-
tive government! A lot of representation
anyone who refuses to be content with the
rule of the Scullin party will have in the
Federal' Government for the next three
years!
Of course the Bruce people will say that
when they were on top they gave equal
consideration to all interests; that is to say,
their section claimed to be the judges of
what was best for the other section. Poli-
tical priggishness—nothing more. “Put us
in the tartshop; you stay outside and we
shall hand as much confectionery as is good
for you out through a hole in the wall.”
That is what all the talk about party gov-
ernment “representing the community as a
whole” boils down to.
It is time the platitudinous cant about
“governing in the interests of the commu-
nity as a whole” was dropped. Nobody
believes a word of it. Party government is
not there to govern in the interests of the
whole community—except in so iar as the
whole communes interests are reconcilable
with the interests of the particular class
of electors on whom the party in power
depends for support. This may go on just
as long as there is money in the taxpayers’
pocket to purchase class concessions with.
When that is exhausted, the end—and no
thanks. Then we may be forced to adopt
representative government under some
form of Mussolinism; and every day you
may meet thoughtful people who say the
sooner the better.
THOMAS COURTNEY.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Few Christmas Remarks About
Governments.
During the past fortnight the Federal Gov-
ernment has been liberally cursed by people
who are supposed to be its friends. There
was more than one outburst in the House
of Reps.; and characteristically the chief
Labor body at Broken Hill expressed its
loathing and abhorrence of the Government
for its handling of something or other.
There is always a disposition among
people who belong to “the other side” in
politics to delight in these outbursts. Is
that wise?
One explanation of many undesirable fea-
tures in Australian social life, particularly
the progressively lessening respect for law
and the growth of public sympathy for
law-breakers, is to be found in the circum-
stance that the average Australian is
increasingly “against the Government.”
If he is a taxpayer—particularly if he is
a fixed-income taxpayer—he wonders what
he is getting for the savagely large inroads
made upon his purse by State and Federal
tax-gatherers. He knows he is paying for a
war that he was promised would end war,
but which didn’t. He knows he is paying
for free, non-sectarian and compulsory
education, but as like as not he sends his
children to a private school. He knows
he is paying for railway and tramway
services on which he doesn’t ride free, and
whose principal preoccupation seems to be
not transport, but the finding of employ-
ment for as many people as possible. He
knows he is paying taxes for hospitals and
ambulances, yet these are' continually
begging in the streets, and the various
doles he also pays for don’t seem to do
much good because excited men are always
telling crowds that thousands are starving.
If he is a day-laborer he knows, because
he has been told so frequently, that all
forms of government are a device of the
capitalist master-class to exploit the prole-
tariat. All these circumstances are aided
and abetted by the fact that it is very
much easier to oppose any Government
than to support it, and these tendencies
build themselves, after a several years’
course of cursing every sort of Govern-
ment, into a condition of mind which,
though its owner may in many cases be
vastly surprised to learn it, favors nothing
but anarchy. The shortest cut to notoriety
and power in such an atmosphere is to
heroically defy law and Governments,
secure in the knowledge that if the most
expensive K.C.’s cannot quibble one out of
resultant scrapes, there is always a strong
probability the case will go to a sub-con-
sciously sympathetic jury.
Few Governments are what they ought
to be; but there is a great danger in
encouraging the idea that the law is always
an ass and Governments always either
scoundrelly or idiotic.
+
Imports Cause Crime.
One of the most certain but least con-
sidered causes of poverty, crime and
immorality was lately mentioned as an
ordinary item of news in the dailies: it
was to the simple effect that, for the first
four months of the financial year, imports
exceeded the exports which are alleged to
pay for them by over £16,000,000, or over
£26,000,000 allowing for the fact that a
receipt for £10,000,000 of interest had to be
bought and imported somehow, and not
allowing for the fact that exports included
a good deal of the Commonwealth Bank’s
gold reserve.
The basic fact is that a country can’t
buy from outsiders six to eight million
pounds’ worth of goods per month more
than it can honestly pay for without losing
all chance of earning that amount by
making these goods itself. That means
unemployment on a grand scale. And
hopeless-looking and long-continued unem-
ployment, with consequent hunger, even if
alleviated a little by an occasional Gov-
ernment loan job, is an appalling manufac-
turer of crime.
For nine years this making of criminals
has proceeded on a large scale, and in that
time a demoralised and undesirable genera-
tion has had time to grow up. They are
not all noisy and vulgar criminals. But the
openings for the workless man who wants
to avoid noisy and vulgar crime are not
many. They consist mainly in acting as
go-getter or jackal to some animal of
prey in an office, and in robbing the rich
when possible, and the poor when safer
and more convenient, which is nearly
always. The competition is severe, and,
except to a person with a gift for deceit,
the commission isn’t large.
The case seems to call for a new kind of
royal commission. It should consist of a
number of able-bodied men of various ages,
who would cut loose from their surround-
ings, taking with them perhaps two weeks’
basic wage apiece, and try their fortune at
earning a living, each with a city workman’s
boarding-house as a base of operations.
Reports presented after three months’ ex-
perience should be informative.


Small Sister Looks at the Land.
According to Premier McPhee the unim-
proved land values of Tasmania increased
during the past year by £300,000. As this
is much below the average annual increase
over the past couple of decades (it has
been as high as ,£700,000 or thereabouts),
it would seem that speculators in unearned
increment are not likely to have such a
prosperous time in the Speck as usual.
Restriction of State borrowing and the
consequent curtailment of public works
is one reason for the drop. Another is
the fact that the land question is prominent
in the Speck because the area of usable soil
is limited to considerably less than half —
probably about one-third—of the island’s
surface, and the need for making the best
use of that limited area is very pressing
in a hard-up State.
Still another reason for the persistence
with which the land question is poked
under the public nose in Tas. may be found
in the suggestion that the details of the
problem are more easily grasped in a
small State than in a large one; conse-
quently nearly all Small Sister’s public men
can understand and talk about tenures and
taxes and areas with all the intimacy and
assurance of experts. This means that the
general public of that State will probably
be enabled to secure an accurate visualisa-
tion of their land problem much sooner
than the g.p. of any of the larger provinces,
and naturally will arrive at a solution, if
there is one, earlier.
The argument about land in Tasmania
seems to have developed to a point at
which various conflicting views may be dis-
cussed without reference to party warfare.
Hitherto, Labor, with the socialistic objec-
tive of nationalisation in mind, has been
inclined to favor, more or less strongly,
increased taxes on unearned land values,
with, for municipalities,' reduction of taxes
on improvements. The anti-Laborites,
especially the bigger landowners, opposed,
“on principle,” any and' every increase in
either capital or unimproved values. Now
these landowners, led by Joe Darling,
M.L.C., are opposing the unimproved values
tax (which obtains in the Commonwealth
and in all States of the Commonwealth)
on the grounds that
1. It penalises the farmer who improves
his property, because increased improve-
ments mean a higher valuation, and in-
creased valuation means increased laud-tax.
2. The system of land-tax is taxing the
former’s stock-in-trade, from which he has
to derive his income. It is not right to tax
the stock-in-trade' of one section of the com-
munity 'only.
3. Sheepowners who this year show a loss
will have no income-tax to pay, yet they
will have to pay another income-tax in
the shape of a land-tax.
On the other hand, ex-Treasurer Elliott
Lewis strongly urges that the unimproved
land-tax should be increased. Thus he
places himself, though anti-Labor in politics,
shoulder to shoulder with Labor’s life-long
plank! Other prominent men advocate a
direct tax on persons who are not putting
their land to its best economic use.
A Labor man in the Assembly has given
notice to move for a select committee to
report on the whole question of tenure of
land, taxes on land, valuation methods,
how to secure the best use of land, how
best to compel owners to do a fair thing
with and by their land, etc. And a member
of the Leg. Council is asking for a joint
committee of Assembly and Council to
consider the question of unimproved. land-
taxes and methods of valuation. One
way and another Small Sister is certainly
keeping her land problems to the fore.
♦
Why Industries Don’t Flourish.
It is usual to make exhibitions of Aus-
tralian manufactures the occasion for ora-
tory, and the custom wasn’t neglected on
two late occasions. A note of dissatisfac-
tion, however, crept into the Sydney jubila-
tions, introduced by Premier Bavin, who
quoted figures to show that the export of
Australian manufactures isn’t increasing
is, in fact, getting less.
Canada, which took a leaf out of Uncle
Sam’s book and gave her manufacturing
industries High Protection, borrowing also
Uncle’s intolerance of go-slow, job-control
and professional strike-mongers, gets on
very much better. She has had a long
start of Australia in the matter of time,
and her population is 50 per cent, greater,
but that doesn’t explain all the disparities
in the industrial condition of the two coun-
tries. The average wage of the Canadian
factory employee in 1926, the latest year
for which comparable figures are available,
was £225. In Australia it was £2O2 —nearly
10s. a week less. But whereas the value
added to raw material per employee was
£523 in Canada, in Australia it was only
£347. Last year, though Canada has to
import raw materials, such as coal and cot-
ton, her imports amounted to £23 per head
of population. Australia, despite her
superior natural resources, took £26 worth.
Canada exported manufactures worth close
on £67,000,000. Australia’s tally, accord-
ing to N. S. Wales Premier Bavin, fell short
of £5,000,000.
F. N. Simpson, president of the Associ-
ated Chambers of Manufactures, addressing
the annual meeting in Sydney a little
while ago, mentioned industrial turmoil and
inadequate protection as the worst handi-
caps manufacturers had to cope with. The
second trouble is more easily dealt with
than the first. To eradicate the first we shall
have to squelch the idea that the royal
road to higher wages and more employment
is less work.
The Backstairs Appeal Court.
In every British community there has been
erected imposing machinery for the trial
of persons charged with criminal offences.
In the last resort, to assist the Judge who
lays down the law we put into a jury-box
12 of the accused’s peers to say guilty or
not guilty upon the facts brought before
them. And to further safeguard both the
public and the prisoner, there is in almost
every British community a provision for
appeals. Meantime all the fierce light
of publicity streams in upon the proceed-
ings, a little to the disadvantage of the
accused sometimes, but generally preventing
any gross miscarriage of justice.
And then—what? The prisoner, having
been found guilty by a jury which has
had all the available facts put before it,
and having been sentenced by a Judge who
has been trained for the job and has had
all the circumstances before him, is put into
a gaol from which he may be released the
following day without the public knowing
a thing about it, even though his sen-
tence may have been one of years!
On what basis, if any, do Governments
release prisoners? In particular, on what
basis, if any, do they release homicides?
In cases of insanity, where public and
private agitation is forceful enough, Gov-
ernments pass the responsibility on to
doctors, who observe the prisoner for a time,
and, if no abnormality appears, recommend
release. Yet the doctors cannot be brought
to book if they turn out to have been
mistaken, and their evidence is like all
expert evidence. One man’s Aye can almost
inevitably be matched by another man’s
Nay.
And the weakest point of all in the
whole business is that this final decision
as to whether a sentence shall be served
or not rests not with Judge or jury but
with politicians—gentlemen whose living
depends upon the number of friends they
can make. Some better system than that
certainly ought to be evolved.
♦-
Is a Uniform Gauge Vital?
Dear Bulletin ,—I am with you in cham-
pioning the 3ft. 6in. railway, which is
cheaper to build, maintain and operate with
reasonable effici-
ency than any
other system.
This is amply
borne out by West-
ralia’s railway his-
tory.
To those who
look to the wide
gauge for the
development o f
monster loco-
motives of the
Mountain and
Mikado types, and
who are full of
scorn for the 3ft.
6in. gauge engine
on the score of its
alleged coffee-
pottishness. I
would offer the
remarks of the
Railway
Engineer of Sep-
t e m b e r, 1929,
about two Garratt-
type locomotives
recently built by
Beyer, Peacock
and Co., Ltd., for
the S. Australian
railways. “T his
locomotive,” says
the Railway
Engineer, “is the
largest engine in
the world con-
structed for ser-
vice on the 3ft.
6in. gauge, and
has the highest
tractive effort of
any locomotive
ever built outside
the United States.”
But while The
Bulletin and I
have a better
argument when we
support the West-
ralian measure-
ment than others
have for the so-
called standard
gauge, are we justi-
fied in making a
great noise about
the business?
Engineers in Eng-
land and America
have recently
started experiments
with boiler pres-
sures ranging up
to 7501 b. per sq.
in., and the re-
sults obtained will
be watched for
with tremendous
interest. If there
is devoted to steam and locomotive en-
gineering over the next decade one half
of the effort and intelligence that has been
given to developing the internal-combustion
engine, no prophet can prophesy the future
worth tuppence. All we can be sure of is
that we are verging on a transitional stage,
and any premature attempt at gauge uni-
fication might be a national tragedy no
matter how attractive it may appear on the
face of it.
Unification has waited 30 years for a
show, and now that it has attracted atten-
tion it looks obsolete. Let us forget it
for a while longer.—Yours, etc., Roley-
STONE.
«
“Roads First, Safety Last!”
Dear Bulletin, —Apathy and unreasonable
delay have characterised the handling of
the road-accident problem by the N.S.W.
Government; the toll of the motor con-
tinues apace, yet nothing is done. Some
18 months ago the Traffic Commission
recommended an amendment of the Traffic
Act to provide increased penalties for reck-
less, dangerous and hit-run drivers, but
this amendment has not been made, and
the callous, irresponsible driver continues
unchecked. The majority of motorists are
careful and would welcome the weeding out
of the small, irresponsible minority.
Traffic laws, however, are of little
practical effect unless there is active co-
operation by the Courts (which hitherto
have been much too lenient) and
rigorous police action. One of the chief
underlying causes of the present crop of acci-
dents is the almost entire lack of adequate
supervision and control, except at busy
street intersections. Elsewhere the irrespon-
sible driver just does what he likes, to the
danger of all other road-users. Mobile
police patrols would remedy this.
A further principal underlying cause of
motor accidents is the existing policy of
“Roads first, safety last.” There are danger
zones and death traps where accidents
are continually taking place, yet nothing
is done or there is unreasonable delay.
The authorities generally raise the question
of expense; but this is only side-tracking
the issue, and is in itself an indictment
of the existing system, which fails to retain
sufficient funds from the motor-traffic re-
ceipts to provide for the safety of the
people who contribute these funds.— Yours,
etc., Motorist.
The Railway Scandal.
From a union official in the Department:—
Mr Aikey (B. 27/11/’29), being in the
political swim, ought to know what is wiong
with the Queensland railways; and what is
wrong with the Queensland railways is
wrong with every railway system in Aus-
tralia. “Give the Commissioner a little more
power, but not too much, and sack the men,
sums up the average politician s solution.
The politician has always taken the way ot
least resistance and built up a capital debt
that stands as a monument of stupidity to
them all, past and pres'ent; he lias bought
votes with public money, and never demanded
efficiency, so long as the masses have voted
right. The railways are overstaffed. 1 hey
have not grown in efficiency, while competi-
tion has been met by a little more red tape
and the appointment of more and yet more
officers. The percentage of officers to men
would put a South American army to shame,
and the politicians have encouraged it.
The only way to make railways (or any-
thing else) pay is to cut away the capital
debt, reduce overhead to the absolute mini-
mum, make sure that you get the right man
at the head of affairs, and give him supreme
control. Tinkering with a problem has
never yet solved it.
Necessity, in time, will force Australia
to tackle her railway problems, and that
time is fast approaching for anyone who has
even a nodding acquaintance with economics
to see. In the meantime, I suggest an
intense study of the Law of Diminishing
Returns as applied to Officers.
❖
“The Bulletin’s” Jubilee.
The Bulletin was bora on January 31,
1880, and on January 29 next a Special
Jubilee Number will be published. It will
contain, besides all the regular features, the
story of The Bulletin’s early struggles and
difficulties, ;with critical reviews 4af the
paper’s influence on Australian literature,
art, politics and finance; there will be a
souvenir reproduction in miniature of the
complete first number, as well as ordinary
reproductions of many of the most famous
cartoons and caricatures of the half-century;
there will be portraits of scores of the
artists and writers who have contributed to
the paper, including such men as “Banjo”
Paterson and Steele Rudd, whose names
are household words. Notwithstanding the
great increase in size the Jubilee Number
will be sold at the ordinary price—sixpence.
PEACE ON EARTH.
PEACE: “How can I make progress with all these hanging on to my skirts and trying at every step
to pull me this way and that?”


/
H :
FOR MODERN MOTORS
Thick, treacly, oils were good enough
for engines of 20 years ago, but the
fetst “ revving,” high compression motors
of to-day are more exacting in their
lubrication demands.
Shell Oils are up-to-date. They give com-
plete satisfaction and perfect lubrication
under the most strenuous conditions of
modern motoring.
Be Up-to-date—Shellubricate.
Use Shell Motor Spirit, too.
d
fds
S£3«
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Scullidore Government has promised
to look into some more tariff matters after
the Christmas victuals are digested. One
is an increased duty on sewing machines.
This item sticks where the 1921 tariff left
it, though wages and costs have risen out of
sight in the interval. The making of sewing
machines was once a promising Australian
industry, but its luck didn’t last.
Victoria’s second Hogan Ministry may
find a field of usefulness if it enacts all-
round preference for Australian goods in
all Government and local-government depart-
ments, and can make sure that the enact-
ment will hold water. Preference to Aus-
tralians is a thousand times more impor-
tant than preference to unionists in Aus-
tralia.
Great Britain recently repaid the U.S.A.
another instalment of its war bill, which
makes £225,000,000 so far —£35,000,000 for
principal and £190,000,000 for interest. There
is £885,000,000 of principal and an almost
incalculable amount of interest still to pay.
As a rule the collection of a war debt or
indemnity in full is a very hopeless business
when the creditor isn’t in a position to
occupy the debtor’s country as security, but
the Old Man is performing manfully.
An unusual
amount of cross-
voting has given
the Franklin (Tas.)
Federal seat to
Frost, the Labor
man, though he was
2000 behind the
Nationalist aggre-
gate on the first
coun t. Clearly
Labor could have
won in November
if it hadn’t decided
to support the late
McWilliams. The
same obviously
applies to Went-
worth (N.S.W.) and
Fawkner (Vic.).
The N.S.W. Bavin-
shaw Government
was furiously
assailed the other
day for proposing
a tax of a half-
penny in the six-
pence on entertain-
ments, with an
exemption of Is.
6d. “One of the
meanest things you
have attempted,”
hissed Lazzarini.
“You are taking
money from an
army of work-
men.” But the
Westralian Labor
Government has an
entertainments tax
running from a
penny on a nine-
penny ticket, and
the Vic. Labor Gov-
ernment’s tax is
the same as
Bavin’s, except that the exemption is 2s.
Thus do great minds disagree.
Queensland’s Arbitration Court has re-
duced the shearing rale from 455. to 40s.
per 100; and Piddington’s Industrial Com-
mission (“Piddo” protesting in another of
his three-volume novels) has taken 2s. 6d.
per week off the N.S.W. basic wage of £4
ss. per week, child endowment to be added.
At the same time the Commonwealth Public
Service Arbitrator has granted increases of
£lB to £2OO p.a. to engineers in the P.M.-G.’s
Department. These decisions thrust wage
regulation furlongs further into chaos.
Customs Minister Fenton, having a spare
minute at Perth on his road to London,
delivered a speech on the frequently-men-
tioned horrors of strife. All war, he said,
is Hell. The last war' was more of a Hell
than any previous one—within his knowledge
at least. Future wars will be a thousand
times more Hell than any before them. It
might be suggested that the remedy lies in
the abolition of Hell, for if it and war are
the same thing one can’t exist without the
other. Who really wants the insanitary,
overcrowded place, anyhow?
Minister Fenton in the r6le of prophet:—
I believe the day is not far distant when nations
will settle their differences hy arbitration rather
than war. If statesmen will not deal effectively
with this question the mass of the people will
demand that it be done.
That was said on the morning when
people at Rothbury (N.S.W.) started to
throw stones because, after years of indus-
trial arbitration, they were just as hostile
as before. After the stones had been ex-
hausted they were madder than ever. Arbi-
tration is an overrated device for settling
differences that are big enough to matter.
The first thing is to abolish differences.
At the last State conference of the S. Aus.
Labor party it was decided by a large
majority to abolish pre-selection ballots if
the Butler Government’s bill establishing
preferential voting was carried. The measure
has since become law, so immediate action is
called for, a State general election being due
shortly. It is expected that the report of
an A.L.P. Council committee on a recent
Leg. Council ballot will provide another argu-
ment, if any were needed, for the erasure
of this blot on S.A. Labor’s good name.
Hitherto Maoriland’s legal system has pro-
vided no means of dealing with a certain
class of old and destitute persons short of
prosecuting them for vagrancy. A Rest
Homes Bill, designed expressly for such
cases, has mow been placed on the Statute
Book. Minister Stallworthy assured the
House- that no compulsion would be exercised
on independent-minded old folk who dreaded
“institutions.”
In the last days of the 13th Westralian
Parliament the Legislative Council dealt
roughly with some of the Labor Govern-
ment’s measures, but when it tried to knock
Id. in the £ off the land-tax it struck a snag.
The Government sent word that if the amend-
ment were insisted upon it would go to the
country on the old electoral boundaries, leav-
ing the Redistribution of Seats Act unpro-
claimed, and the Council backed down. An
A STUDY OF THE LABOR BENCHES.
TOP: M. Gosling, C. A. Kelly and A. A. Lysaght. Bottom: J. M. Baddeley, W. J. McKell, W. F. Dunn, J. T. Lang.
election on the old boundaries would be a
staggering affair. When the rolls were last
counted there were just on 20,000 electors
in Canning and 260 or so in Menzies, each
returning one member. Canning had more
people than 17 other constituencies combined
—l3 on the goldfields and four in the north.
Already there are fissures in the Federal
Labor party, and the Prime Minister and
his Attorney-General are in danger. They
are both pacifists, and have shown the
courage of their convictions during the coal
turmoil; but the wild men are saying that
“the movement” has no use for pacifists in
industrial matters —it wants partisans.
There is also the feeling, hitherto expressed
in sullen murmurs, that there are too many
Victorians in the Ministry and too few rep-
resentatives of the poor old Ma State; too
much A.W.U. and too little Trades Hall.
A definite split will be avoided at all costs,
but the out-and-outers will be greatly dis-
appointed if they don’t bring about a recon-
struction of the Ministry next year.
A few years ago the Victorian tax on
earned income ranged from 3d. to 7d. in
the £, double rates being charged on income
from property. With the Hogan Govern-
ment’s additions, the rates will be 6d. to
lOd. on personal earnings, and Is. to Is. Bd.
on property income, with 10 p.c. to 2o p.c.
added where the income exceeds £BOO. An-
other threepence on the company tax makes
it Is. 9d. in the £. These new imposts are
estimated to bring in £415.000 before June
30, and another £300,000 or thereabouts is
expected from additional probate and stamp
duties, a tax on amusements and one on
bookmakers betting at dog and foot races.
Middle-class Victorians, who have had little
experience of State Labor Governments and
their fondness for raising the income-tax,
are railing at Hogan, but if Theodore hadn t
got in early with his exactions, Hogan would
have asked for more.
John Quick, Deputy President of the
Commonwealth Arbitration Court, was
booked for retirement in 1927 (he was
appointed in ’22), but his term has been
extended from time to time to enable him
to “finalise” Government railway cases.
There are so many of these cases and they
take so long to “finalise” that learned
brother Drake-Brockman has been called in
to help; and now John Quick has received
another extension which will carry him into
his 79th year. The Commonwealth Statisti-
cian’s estimate of the losses on Government
railways for the last three recorded years is
£17,837,000. It is highly probable that some
of the lines will be out of commission before
John Quick decides what wages shall be
paid for working them.
When the Scullidores disbanded the
C.M.F. battalions it was alleged that there
would be a saving of £lBO,OOO for the un-
expired portion of the financial year ou
training camps alone. A later version, spoken
by Minister Green in the House on December
6, was that “by introducing the voluntary
system we shall save £150,000 on camps for
the year.” Now, “Further Budget Papers,
presented by the Honorable Edward G.
Theodore,” show that training cost £96,742
in 1928-29 and is estimated to cost
£131,510 in 1929-30; also that the pay of
the Citizen Forces is reckoned at £158,000 in
1929-30 as against £96,260 in 1928-29, while
the pay of the Permanent Forces goes from
£346,864 to £519,565. Puzzle, find the
saving. -
It may at least be said about the shindy
between the police and the miners at Roth-
bury that it didn’t develop the wild-beast
ferocity of the basher gangsters during the
timber strike. The police waited to be
attacked, which the bashers never did, and
they didn’t retaliate in haste. Casualties
were few compared with those of the timber
strike, and the leaders' of the party of
order expressed profound regret that casual-
ties had taken place at all, whereas the ten-
dency of the leaders of the basher, gangs was
rather to say that the damage which had
taken place was nothing compared with what
might be looked for. On the other side the
cases present two points of resemblance. The
organisers of the Rothbury disturbance were
reticent about claiming the' responsibility
for their work, especially when it began to
look serious. And whoever might be injured,
they weren’t so conspicuous in the front
rank of battle as to be injured themselves.
The coal tangle hasn’t been made less
incomprehensible by the bursting into the
arena of Judge Beeby. The industry has its
own arbitration court, Hughes’s coal tribunal,
and Mr. Beeby is not a member of it. Neither
is there any dispute between the N.S.W.
Government, which is doing a little coal-get-
ting on its own account, and its employees m
the mine which it has leased. Nevertheless,
Mr. Beeby has granted all the northern
miners pre-stoppage wages and conditions
without any investigation of the case, inci-
dentally ordering the Commonwealth tax-
payers to pay a bounty of Is. a ton and
the State taxpayers to find 2s. a ton m
freight concessions and the like. The decision
is supposed to hold good throughout January,
but it will probably go overboard earlier than
that, being devoid of two essentials.
“Labor principles” have bad a rough time
in Queensland since the Moore Government
took charge. In one Parliamentary session
the new men have, among other things, ex-
celled the rural awards, lifted the ban on the
sale of Crown land, sold as many of the
State enterprises as they could get buyers
for, taken the municipal franchise from
lodgers and boarders, remodelled th e arbi-
tration system, forbidden public-service
unions to belong to political federations,
prohibited the extortion of political levies
from unionists and the closing of union
books, struck out the four saints’ days from
the list of public holidays, and called in
the railway passes issued to the Labo r ß es
who voted the Leg. Council out of existence
in 1921 and were appointed for that pur-
pose. This last change has evoked roars
of rage, though the others were received
with comparative calm. Hell has no fury
like a deadhead dragged from his pass.
From its inception in 1914 the Westralian
Country party has set its face against the
pre-selection business. Largely because of
this democratic attitude it has been highly
successful- —nearly all the wdieat belt has
been captured from pre-selected Libs, and
"I ~.,11^,1
Labs. A so-called
district council is
sullying an honor-
able record by re-
fusing to endorse
anyone but Thom-
son, the par t y
leader, for the Ivat-
anning seat,
although Arnold
Piesse, a former
member for the dis-
trict and head of
a historic Ivatan-
ning family, was
already in the field.
Protesting that
this is a glaring
breach of the rules,
Piesse is going on
with his campaign.
John Bull’s big
creditor grows more
and more emphatic
in saying that he
won’t take goods
in payment but
must have gold; in
fact, he sells to
John B. about
£142,000,000 worth
more than he buys
from John B. in a
year, and wants
sovereigns for the
difference. This
helps to sour; John
8., who raises a
periodical clatter
about the Austra-
lian tariff, which
is really about as
mild as skim milk.
When lie started
the last row it
wouldn’t have been
amiss for the Scullidores to send a circular
to the British Freetrade press, stating that if
this Commonwealth reduced its purchases of
British goods from £60,000,000 worth to
£25,000,000 worth in a year it would only be
acting towards the Old Mali as Uncle Sam does.
Not desiring to have their noses rubbed
in the mud, Nats, and Cockles kept away
from the presentation of Vic.’s Assembly’s
Address-in-Reply to Baron Somers. The
Address, as amended at the instance of
Hogan, now the man in possession, told his
Ex. that the McPherson Ministry had for-
feited the confidence of the House and the
country. Four of the H'ogans listened with
approval. Barring Speacock, who, as head of
the House, had to present the thing, Menzies,
K.C., the new man from Nunawading, was the
only Nat. there. He didn’t look comfortable.
“Griffith Moses”: Can anyone tell me
which is the stronger emotion —Billy
Hughes’s utter contempt for the rottenness
of the Nationalist party, or his utter rage
because it didn’t let him in to rot with
it? Someone once said of an old-time poli-
tician that he was such a good hater
that he would walk 10 miles in the rain to
do an injury to his best friend. But I doubt
if Hughes ever kept a best friend long enough
to allow of him covering the distance.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Anaf” : As far as records can be traced,
the fountain-pen was invented in Sydney and
the first one was made there, in 1873, by
J. A. Reid, then chief clerk in the Supreme
Court offices. It was a pen with a channel
down the centre of its holder, through which
ink flowed from a small rubber bulb at the
top. Later he modified this by putting the ink
in a rubber tube outside the handle, and still
later enclosed the tube within the holder.
Several pens of the enclosed-tube type were
made and given by Reid to friends. One
went to a visiting American business man,
and to the day of his death. Reid declared
that this American robbed him of the fruits
of his invention by patenting the device
immediately on his return to America, and
floating a company to manufacture the pens.
* * * #
“Gregor”: Here's a little extract from
Sydney’s gaol history that sounds like a
J. H. M. Abbott story. Shortly after Dar-
linghurst prison was opened a prepossess-
ing young woman got 12 months’ hard
over the disappearance of an elderly gentle-
man’s watch. There were no warderesses in
Darlinghurst in those days, and she soon
THE SOCIAL ADVANTAGES OF IT.
THE OWNER: “I’m entering Fido for the Dog Show next month.”
THE FRIEND : “But, dear, he’ll never win — he’s quaite a mongrel, you know.”
THE OWNER: “Perhaps he is. But think of the awfully nice dogs he’ll meet!”
became on extremely good terms with one of
the warders; so much so that nearly a year
after her sentence had expired she was dis-
covered to be still in the prison as a guest
of the warder. For this the warder was
sacked and the lady was given another 12
months, but this time in Parramatta Gaol.
With a policeman for escort, she set off for
her new home, but nothing more was heard of
either escort or prisoner until nearly three
years had passed, and .then, quite accidentally,
it was discovered that they were married and
keeping a pub in Brisbane. The Law
developed a blind eye and let them be, and
they lived to become prosperous and re-
spected citizens of the northern city.
$ :S * *
“Star, Grenade and Thistle”: The sugges-
tion (B. 18/12/’29) that Guards regiments
should be raised in Australia is a reminder
that at least one graceful tradition of the
Household Brigade might be carried out in
the case of Australian batteries, regiments
and battalions. That is the decking of the
guidons or colors with a small wreath ot
laurel on the anniversary of any action m
which the unit has taken part. The idea is
carried out in Australia in a measure where
such war memorials as the Sydney Ceno-
taph, to name only one of many, are con-
cerned. These offerings, however, are only
individual efforts, wand there is many an
outlying district which is quoted as the
H.Q. of a famous unit of the old A.l.h •
and has no such facilities . for recording
remembrance. The colors, with their battle
honors, are lodged in these centres, how-
ever, and the Guards tradition of recording
great anniversaries would go & long way
towards attracting voluntary enlistment.
* * * *
“Kappa”: Sea-bathing in the nude may
have been abandoned a hundred years ago
in England (B. 11/12/’29). but survived in
Sydney in much more recent times. As a
small boy not much over 20 years ago 1 was
at a Sunday-school picnic at Doll’s Point
when a crowd of the lads and lasses
of the village arrived from Botany in
spring-carts, accompanied by beer in demi-
johns. Having drunk the beer, a dozen or
so of both sexes disrobed in the scrub, and
were joyfully disporting themselves in the
water, when our scandalised guardians
frenziedly collected the picnic and hurried it
away from the dreadful sight. Middle Har-
bor was another place where costumeless
bathing was frequent, and the Rocks
and other pushes, with their sheilas, used
Chowder Bay (now Clifton) for a similar
purpose.
“Pomegranate” : . Not elderly yet by any
means, I can recall vividly the English
middle-class struggle to attain the order of
the bath. No bathing provision was installed
in any of the homes I knew as a boy, and
in each of them my father wasted his sub-
stance by providing bathing facilities as a
gift to the landlord. The highest stage we
reached was a full-length tin affair in-
stalled near the cold-water service. We
took upstairs in buckets the hot water
made so on the kitchen range three
storeys down! Then a neighbor in-
stalled. a gas bath-heater and thereby soared
in status and popularity; he used to invite
his friends to “have a hot bath on Tuesday
as one now bids friends to a bridge \Y e< l n ? s "
day. I once, as a kid, attended a bath in-
vitation night; there were 20 nippers there,
of mixed sexes !
“Ex-Englisliman” : What recent writers on
the bath question miss is that it has always,
till lately, been a matter of social status.
Half a century back the British aristo-
cracy was becoming clean, but still dwelt in
the mansions of ancestors who were not.
The awful sanitation even of palaces was
revealed at the Prince Consort’s death, and
10 years later at the toncli-and-go escape of
Edward, then P. of W.; and along with
the revolution in plumbing came more bath-
rooms. Otherwise “tub” (verb or noun)
denoted the morning splash, a flat tin affair
of cold water in one’s bedroom. Remember
that all British bedrooms are upstairs, and
consider the labor of carrying up, and; down
again, the material for a series of tubs.
Remember that the British climate hardly
ever makes a cold bath an enjoyment, as
here; also that daily hot baths were not
dreamed of anywhere at that time. I have
seen just as much fuss made here as there
when a presumptuous guest requisitioned a
whole bucket of hot water last thing at
night. As for the “comfortable” middle
classes (to which I belonged), true clean-
liness was simply unknown, and so were
bathrooms. The kiddies were literally
tubbed every Saturday night, the elders
never, a morning wash from the waist up
and a rare foot-bath being all. At my
public school, a small but well-esteemed one,
bath-night came in rotation about every 16 or
IS days ; we meanwhile playing football, etc.,
and having clean socks served out twice a
week. It all sounds incredible to-day. But
this is the truth, straight from the stable.
sfc ❖ ❖ ❖
“Q.M.1.”: That yarn about the polite
little General and the large wife (B.
18/12/’29) reminds me. After the occupa-
tion of Bloemfontein in the South African
War of a generation ago, the writer and two
mates went into the town with a light
waggon to take out some saddlery to our
camp at Springfield Farm. The pubs were
closed to “other ranks,” but the corporal in
charge was an old Imperial man who knew’
his way about. Swinging the team down
a side street he pulled up in front of a
humble-looking pub. The rum inside was
of the right sort, and we all came out into
the cold morning air breathing ambrosial
odors. As w r e did so a mild little gentleman
in tweeds passed, accompanied by three
colossal females, one well on in years and
the others fairly short in the tooth. We
wanted no telling who the mild little man
was, and clicked to it as the corporal shouted
“’Shun.” The little chap took off his hat
with a sweet smile and walked through the
THE PERILS OF THE DEEP.
“Gee! What’s got yeh, Muriel—a shark?”
“Nothing so merciful, Paguita — I’ve laddered me bathers!”
rum-laden atmosphere without turning a
hair. Not so Lady Roberts. The glare
she handed out to the three of us makes
my spine still creep when I think of it.
* * * *
“Vil N.”: Jones is a chess devotee and his
wife—well' l she isn’t. The other day Jones
lifted his head from the volume on chess
in which lie had been browsing,, and said,
“Do you know, my dear, that the first inter-
national chess tournament began in London
in 1851?” “Is that so?” replied his spouse as
she gathered up her sewing. “Then isn’t it
about time for you to watch the cables to
see what the first move was?”
5jS # * *
“Cartot”: The Doukliobors, who made
such a nuisance of themselves in Canada,
originally intended to settle in Australia.
In the early part of 1880 emissaries of the
.sect arrived in Sydney and went to Bris-
bane, where they applied to the Queensland
Government for a grant of land, and were
allotted an area in the Gladstone district.
The agents returned to Russia ostensibly to
bring out their oppressed compatriots, but
actually to report adversely against Queens-
land’s climate.
* * * *
“Herodot” : When the “patent trap,” as it
was called at first, became part of the
gallows in Australia, one of the first to
suffer on it was a man named Hogan, the
murderer of two policemen.
Hogan had never heard of the
new trap, and when he mounted
the scaffold, observing a ladder
leaning against the beam over-
head, where the hangman had
left it after fixing the rope, he
announced that it would take a
hundred men to get him to
ascend it, his idea being that
he was to be tipped off the
ladder in the old style. With
som.e difficulty the noose was
adjusted and he was placed upon
the trap, where he prepared to
resist the further efforts of the
hangman. He was still pro-
claiming his determination not
to go up the ladder when the
bolt was drawn, and he vanished
through the floor. According
to a chronicler of the period,
“everybody present was very
amused, and the surprised look on
Hogan’s face as the planks collapsed beneath
his feet caused much laughter.”
* * * *
“S.T.S.” : An odd breach of the law over
30 years old has just come to light in Adel-
aide. One of the city’s best-known firms
came under the Companies Act then, and a
clerk was told to comply with the section
that requires the registered address to be
advertised in three consecutive numbers of
the Government Gazette and of two daily
papers. He put the ad. in the Gazette
(which is a weekly) all right, and each
time he took it along to the dailies simul-
taneously—which was, of course, far from
being consecutive issues with them. The
harmless offence has just been dragged to
light, on proof of registration becoming
necessary in a law case, and it cost the co.
10 guineas. ~ •
* * * *
“Yexam” : In a recent par it was stated
that N.S.W. pedagogues received as little as
£2 a month 48 years ago. Well. I did better
than that. At the close of 1880 the depart-
ment sent me, a newly-graduated teacher,
to a school about six miles from Cowra,
Lachlan River, on a commencing salary
of £8 per month. The roll o£ my
academy or college mustered about 12
in a boom period. Not liking the job,
I wrote my resignation one sultry day,
nailed it on a case containing the school
requisites, and said good-bye to my sobbing
pupils. (Some of them liad just had good
reason to sob.) It must have been a con-
siderable time before the inspector came
along, because I later received a letter in Tas-
mania from a Cowra resident enclosing the
Department’s cheque for £9, representing a
£1 rise in the monthly stipend.
=>: * * *
“W.1.U.” : The homing pigeon may be suit-
able for work over short distances, but is
certainly not reliable over long distances.
In the; flying season, just closed, Sydney
homing clubs sent out crates of valuable
birds over the Sydney-Broken Hill line, but
the experiment is not likely to be repeated.
Out of about 1000 birds released at Menindie,
72 miles from Broken Hill, not one got. back,
and 500 or so released from Ivanhoe were
all lost.
* * * ❖
“Adelaide”: A Mount Gambier (S.A.)
girl has returned home after an adventure
straight off the movie screen. She sat
in a car outside a North Adelaide bank
while a man robbed it at pistol-point. The
same night they were arrested while trying
to get across the Murray to Victoria. ITe
got 10 years. She told the Court tearfully
that she had “sinned” in leaving home with
him, but was no criminal, honestly believing
his story that he went into the bank to
collect money owed to him; and when
arrested “it all ca/me over me, and I said
what I did trying to shield him.” A hard-
hearted jury called it Guilty; but a kind-
hearted Bench (after thinking it over for
three weeks) made it bond-for-good-behavior
merely.
❖ # * ❖
“Kir”: Sydney’s Hyde Park, nowadays a
favorite spot for indignation meetings, was
not always open to public speakers. In the
early ’seventies numerous mild riots occurred
there as the result of the Hell-fire and brim-
stone fulminations of Pastor Allen, who had.
a little Baptist chapel in Castlereagh-street.
Whereupon Alfred Stephen, a trustee of the
park, who lived on the corner of College and
Francis streets, within coo-ee of Allen’s shin-
dies, called his colleagues together, and they
passed a by-law that not more than three
persons should be permitted to assemble in
the place. The by-law remained in force until
the City Council assumed control of the park.
**' * *
“D.”: Last week’s purchase by John
F'uller, the vaudeville entrepreneur, of
Cserleon, on Bellevue Hill, exemplifies a
social phenomenon which is character-
istic of Sydney—the tendency of estab-
lished families to disintegrate or emi-
grate. In recent years Cserleon has
been occupied by the C. B. Fairfaxes, the
T. H. Kellys and tho Rupert Clarkes. The
Fairfaxes have settled permanently in Eng-
land, and so has their only son; half the
Kelly family live abroad, and the heir to
the Clarke baronetcy is being brought up
in England with his recently-married mother.
It is doubtful if there are a dozen big houses
in the whole of Sydney which are owned
and occupied by the people, or by descen-
dants of the people, who owned and occupied
them 30 years ago.
* * * *
“Faave”: The reversion to the volunteer
defence system will displease the anti-
alcohol clan. In a compulsory camp to
be found in possession of anything stronger
than lemonade was next door to a capital
crime. Now, with the abolition of the com-
pulsory provisions, there is nothing to pre-
vent a volunteer from equipping his haver-
sack and kit-bag with bottles of his favorite
brand of beer or whisky. Indeed, unless the
brass-hats bow to the fury of the Stigginses,
as they did in the case of sports on Sundays,
there will be very wet canteens in future
camps. One gunner brigade has already
decided to take full advantage of the altered
conditions, and nine-gallon kegs are being
laid in.
VITAMIN B.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I do not know clearly just what it may be,
For I’m not a professor or even M.D.,
But I’m wildly excited, enchanted, intrigued
With Vitamin B!
(I think it is B.)
Dear matrons grown muddled and fellows
fatigued,
Whose malady mostly consists of ennui,
Come, seek it with me!
This Vitamin B,
Where it blooms on an isle in the uttermost
sea.
It works like a wizard on “washlady’s knee.”
If a mute you should hear singing “Mother
Machree,”
Or notice a telegraph messenger streak —
Why, it’s Vitamin B !
Yes, it’s certainly B,
Which is something abstract, with a nimbus
unique,
Sort of fairy-tale food for the phagocyte’s
glee.
Yes, a real eau-de-vie
Is this Vitamin B
To the cautious corpuscles of fellows like me.
I haven’t a doubt that it offers the key
To Utopian kingdoms sans physic and fee,
Such as haunt the sad slumbers of sweet
seventeen.
Yet, of Vitamin B
(Yes! Darn it all, B!)
I only know this. In an old magazine,
Like a lone hieroglyph or a sign in Chaldee,
These words fronted me,
Just “Vitamin B,”
So I really can’t write any more, as you
see!
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


‘Roger G.” : The early years of a colony
are always marked by a dearth of women,
and in many settlements the ratio has been
considerably below 7 the ten men to one
woman that prevailed in Westralia in 1855.
In seventeenth-century Canada the shortage
of women was so acute in some parts, the
proportion being one female to more than
30 males, that the French Government made
periodical raids on the filles de joie of
Paris, exported the catches in shiploads,
incidentally providing Abbe Prevost with the
theme of “Manon Leseaut.” England had
used the same method to supply the female
deficiency in several of its American colonies,
some of the ladies of Newgate so trans-
ported being among the founders of “first
families” in Virginia and Carolina. N. S.
Wales was. probably the only new overseas
settlement in w 7 hich the discrepancy between
the sexes was small, but that was because
so many of the first women colonists had no
choice in the matter.
* * * *
“Manar”: If the crew of the wrecked Nor-
wich City had tried they could hardly ha\ 7 e
picked a w 7 orse spot in the Pacific upon which
to go ashore than Gardiner Island, where
their vessel recently came to grief. The
speck of land, which lies slightly to one side
of the steamer-track from Sydney to San
Francisco, is a little over three miles square,
and is one of the most desolate and for-
bidding spots in the ocean. The greater part
of it is covered by thick and almost impen-
etrable scrub, with a very deep lagoon in
the centre, and the rest is given over to
gigantic crabs and a slimy sort of lizard.
The crabs range up to three feat in diameter,
OH, THE RUDE MAN!
SUE: "If you men would stop looking at us girls in short skirts we’d soon stop
wearing them.”
JACK: Yes, I suppose you’d have to do something drastic"
and are armed with nippers strong enough
to break a man’s arm. When killed and
their outer armor opened they give off a
rank and offensive odor which would prevent
anybody who wmsn’t in the last stages of
starvation from eating their flesh. There
is a legend that three men wrecked on the
island were eaten by crabs.
* * * ❖
“Jack Point”: “C.H*.” states (B. 4/12/’29)
“we are still as ignorant as ever of the
causes which determine sex.” But the
matter is covered by Mendel’s Law, and the
fact that humans can’t be experimented with
on Mendelian lines doesn’t affect the fact
that the scientific basis of sex has been
discovered. The most commonly quoted illus-
tration is th*at of Sebright bantams. Mate
a pure Silver Sebright cock with a Golden
Sebright hen and the offspring are all silvers.
Breed these hybrids together and they will
produce offspring in the ratio of three Sil-
vers to one Golden, and all the Goldens pro-
duced from such a mating will be females.
Take a Silver Sebright bantam hen and
mate her with a Golden Sebright cock and
the sexes will be produced in approximately
equal numbers —Silver cocks and Golden
hens. In cases where biologists have been
able to apply the Mendelian laws to humans,
records have been collected which prove that
the same principles apply.
* ❖ *
“Old Q.” : Brisbane has been greatly in-
trigued lately over a mysterious invitation
sent to Mayor Jolly from Buenos Ayres. It
invites him to attend the opening of a new
cafe, the special attractions of which are
said to include a German bar, a beerhouse
and a “saloon separate,” which seems to be
a naughty sort of place. The Mayor isn't
taking it on, but the writer can recall
mayors and aldermen of the past in Bris-
bane who would have rushed that invitation,
if they had to raise the rates to get there.
* ❖ if* ❖
“Glen A": The oratory associated with
Labor pre-selection ballots isn’t necessarily
a criterion of political success. When Darby
Riordan, formerly Labor M.L.A. for Burke
in the Q’land Parliament, but now an
M.H'.R., was selected to contest the State
seat, the secretary of the local A.L.P. branch
spent a good deal of time teaching the can-
didate the speech that had been prepared
for him. Darby learnt it all right, but
memory failed him when he mounted the
stage. He fell back on the vernacular and
proclaimed, ‘‘Vote for me an’ the Ryan mob,
and you’re home on the pig’s back.”
* * * *
“Frigid”: Humor in a dry old timber-yard?
Well, what about this? A man strolled in
and asked for some thin, straight boards,
and they had to be free from knots. Now
it so happened that we had very little of the
stock he required, and what little we had was
of inferior quality. So he was told that he
couldn’t have it both ways. If he wanted
the boards straight he would have to put
up with the knots; it was the knots, we
explained, that kept them straight ! He be-
lieved it and took them.
* * *
“Fana”: A Christmas dinner which will
live long in my memory was a spread for the
aged poor of Melbourne, arranged by the
clientele of a two-up school. It was held in
an Exhibition-street building ordinarily de-
voted to fights, over £250 having been sub-
scribed for the food and drinks. Nearly
everybody who helped at it had. a police
record. Three assault-and-robbery men
minded the door and ejected ineligibles,
most of the waiters were pugs of low degree,
and the head barman had only recently
emerged from Pentridge, where he had been
serving a sentence for assaulting the police.
But everything went swimmingly and it
took the guests from noon till nearly four
o’clock to eat all the food and drink all the
beer, after which each guest was given a
small present and sent home.
* * *
“Selma”.: Six-years-old had been assured
that if he prayed hard enough all sorts of
desirable things would be added unto him.
He decided to put the theory 1 to the test
when Dad sent him upstairs the other day
and promised to bring the strap along a
little later. Praying fervently, small son
essayed to stave off the awful hour, but
the creaking of the stairs warned him that
the crisis was at hand. Then came the
familiar squeak of the top step, and the cul-
prit made a final appeal. “Dear God,” he
sobbed desperately, “here’s your last chance!”
H* ij*
“Cadonga": Bluey was enjoying a few
days’ a.w.l. in London, and was playing
billiards in an army hostel when he heard
that a party of A.I.F. military police were
in the lounge dowmstairs examining leave
passes. Not having a “brief,” Bluey was
alarmed, as he knew 7 that the raid would
be carried into every part of the building.
After a moment of frantic thought he
whipped off his coat, tousled his hair and
ran downstairs. Accosting the nearest jack,
he cried in heartrending tones, “I say, Dig.'!
I was just having a wash in the bathroom,
and I hung me coat on a nail,' an’ some
cow 7 went an’ pinched me pocket-book!”
‘‘^ ave any money in it?” inquired the M.P.
Well, there was a Bradbury in it, an’ me
leave pass,” admitted Bluey ; “but that ain’t
what’s worryifi’ me—there Avas me wife’s
photo. I wouldn’t ha’ lost that fer 50 e.uid!”
* * * *
“W. Sikes”: Though some of this is
against my own interests, some of it ain’t,
and you’ll see it’s all eommonsense. Don’t
spend too much money on locks and bolts.
The best lock you can buy for a liouse-door
can be cut out with a brace-and-bit and a
pad-saw 7 in five minutes.: .. Others can be
picked in as many seconds. More important
still, don’t lock up every drawer and door
inside the house. If you are burgled you’ll
find them all burst, and burst so that they’ll
cost a lot to repair. If you have to leave
your house unoccupied put your cash in
the bank and pawn your jewels—Uncle’s
charges are small. He takes all respon-
sibility, and even the Archangel Gabriel can’t
get the sparklers from him without the
ticket.
* * !jt :J;
“S. Q. Lapius”: Maoriland, w r hieh was
recently thrilled by the announcement that
a North Island resident had discovered that
cancer could be cured by small doses of
kerosene, has now
been informed by
an Anglican clergy-
man named Ward
—lie’s vicar of an
Auckland suburban
parish that T. 8.,
save in cases where
there is very little
of the lungs left,
can be cured by a
recipe of mineral
salts and herbs as
prepared by tli e
padre, who has
p h a r m a ceutical
qualifications. Ho
; refuses to disclose
the formula of his
potion, pleading
that he does not
desire it to be
commercialised, but
he offers medicine
and directions for
use to any sufferer
at a fee of 9d. per
week, which he
estimates will
cover his out-of-
pocket expenses. As
in the case of the
gentleman who
proposes to revolu-
tionise the treat-
ment of cancer, a
large number of
cures are pro-
claimed, and the
Rev. Ward goes
one better than the
kerosene healer by
claiming that at
least one member
of the B.M.A. —
name not disclosed
—is a convert to
his methods. The
B.M.Av retorts that
if the Rev. Ward
w 7 ants humanity to have the full benefit of
his remedy the best way to ensure that is
to submit it to the Public Health Depart-
ment or a committee of the association for
a proper test.
* * * *
“The Hippogryph” : Recrudescence in N. S.
Wales of cattle-stealing on a wide scale
has served to illustrate how Yankee films
and stories have influenced the Australian
vernacular, for daily newspapers described
the thieving as “rustling” and the thieves
as “rustlers.” ’Practitioners of the ancient
Australian art of cattle-duffing on the Vic.-
Bogong high plains, the foothill ranges of
the Upper Murray in N.S.W., and the Dawes
Range country in Queensland must have
turned in their graves at the foreign invasion.
* * * 5=
“Exdig”: Britain closed her Great War
operations when 400 men,
the last remnant of the
British troops occupying
the Rhineland, landed in
England. An ex-A.1.F.-er
who returned to Aus-
tralia recently was with
the army of occupation
until a couple of months
before. There were other
Diggers who found sol-
diering so fascinating that
they tried to remain on
when the war ended, hut
this chap is probably the
record Australian long-
service man. He enlisted
in 1914, and, when the
war finished, enrolled
with the Northern Russia
expedition. That helped
him to a place in the
army of occupation. Now,
returning after 15 years’
absence, all on service, he
finds that he has forfeited
his right to all Repat.
aid—except funeral ex-
penses, which he is not
looking for yet awhile.
* * •*
“Centurion” : I heard of the passing of a
good sportsman the other day. Long ago
he. had proved one of the Queen’s Hard Bar-
gains, and when I knew him was employed
on any sort of a job from horse-coping to
potato-peeling. In the Suez-Cairo train one
evening I found myself at the same table
with a very consequential and gold-striped
naval officer. My old friend chose this
moment to stagger down the dining carriage
of the rocking express. He was wearing a
dishevelled Australian uniform with two pips
up, and was obviously full to the neck. As
he. passed a lurch threw him off his feet, but
he saved a spill by putting a large and not too
clean hand in the middle of the N.O.’s fish
course. The latter uttered something be-
tween a snort and a bellow, but my friend
was not discommoded. Negligently flicking
the sauce tartare from his fingers he said
“M’ dear f’l’r, doyouknothershawaron ?
You’ve —hie—gottcr taketheroughwizzer—hie
—smoodge.”
* * * *
“Marita”: France could not have been
accused of encouraging cosmopolitan curren-
cies during war • days, though it billeted
representatives of almost every army play-
ing with the Allies. Most of the estaminets
and stores refused to handle anything not
French. I’ve seen them turn their noses up
at a shilling tendered for a franc. They
even haggled over, their own paper currencies.
Five-franc notes and those of larger denomi-
nations>were universally acceptable, but most
of the municipalities circulated their own
franc- and half-franc-notes, ranging in, size
from tram tickets to postcards. On the
march we’ve taken the grimy, dilapidated
notes as change in one town, to find they
weren’t worth the price of a drink at the
end of next day’s march. France must have
saved itself a fortune in notes that were
never redeemed.
* * * *
“The Ghoul”: One ridiculous remnant of
the Great War is the use by the military and
naval forces, as well as some other Govern-
ment departments, of capital letters for every
tuppeny-ha’penny job at H.Q. The pussier
TALLY MARKS.
“Why don’t you use a lipstick that won’t rub off?”
“No good. I couldn’t tell then which boys I’d finished with.”
the job the more capitals it requires. One
official tacks after his name A.D.1.M.-
D.5.F.P.D.8.A.F., which being interpreted
means: “Assistant Director Implements and
Machinery Department Section, Food Pro-
duction Department, Board of Agriculture
and Fisheries.” That’s an English one. An
Australian tail that beats it for length is
D.S.T.M.Q. and C.l.A.A.S.C.T.—“Director
of Supply, Transport, Movements and
Quartering and Chief Instructor of Austra-
lian Army Service Corps Training.”
* * *
“Caveman”: “Shep’s” assertion (B.
20/11/’2O) that Bird wood was not known
to complain of the lack of saluting shows
he didn't know Birdwood. In January,
1917, when the first D.FI.Q. were at Fri-
court, I saw and heard Birdie giving a
Digger a dinnihazer of a dressing-down for
failing to salute. A corporal attached to
the staff told me that Birdie was punctilious
in returning salutes at all times, and a
great grabber of those who neglected to give
him the opportunity.
* * * *
“H.V.E.”: The Lord save me from being
tried in my absence by one of these brave
old soldiers! Some marginal notes were pen-
cilled by General Charles Napier, conqueror
of Scinde, in a book by Major James Ren-
nell opposite a passage laudatory of “Lieu-
tenant, afterwards. Admiral, William Bligh.”
The author had declared that Bligh’s
voyage' in an open boat over the 1300 miles
of sea between Otaheite and Timor, after
the mutiny on the Bounty, was comparable
with the retreat of Cyrus and his 10,000
Greeks from Babylonia. Napier wrote: —
One of the greatest rascals living, from all
accounts, and as to his courage, a grenadier of the
102nd Regiment named Anderson pulled him from
under a feather-bed, where he had hidden himself
when the garrison mutinied with their officers against
his tyranny. Captain William Minchin, their adju-
tant, was ordered by Col. Johnston to arrest Bligh,
and after a strict search the brave Governor was
found as above said, having placed his wife and
daughter at the hall door to lead the searchers aside,
proving thereby that either he did fear a sudden
exhibition of popular violence, or that he was a
most nefarious scoundrel.
Yet the only evidence against Bligh in the
feather-bed case is that of the nebulous gren-
adier, which is retailed at third-, fourth- or
fifth-hand by his detractors.
* * * *
“Caradoc”: There was no love lost be-
tween a Yic. police magistrate recently
retired and his honorary colleagues, and he
was not blind to the fact that these holders
of the commission of the King’s peace sat
on the bench only when there were cases
in which they were personally interested.
A licensing prosecution usually attracted a
full roster of justices. At the hearing of one
of such cases an honorary was constituting
himself almost an extra counsel for the
defence, sotto voce in the P.M.’s ear. At
last the magistrate turned. “Personally,”
he said. “I know nothing of the location of
this alleged secret and extra bar, but my
colleague Mr. Mcßednose, who evidently
knows the location very well, assures me
that” A roar of laughter, in which
even defending counsel joined, drowned his
sentence and defendant’s hope of acquittal.
Mr. Mcßednose was very well known in the
town!
* * * $
CHRISTMAS HORROR.
Last evening by our fowlhouse door agape
Came stealing through the dusk a human
shape.
The thing he bore made chills run down our
backs.
He bade our Sultan taste it. ’Twas the axo.
FAIRLY INTELLIGENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A human skull found this month in the lime-
stone near Pekin is pronounced by scientists to be
the nearest approach to the missing link yet known.
It is believed to be at least a million years old,
and its shape suggests that man, even then, had
attained a fairly high degree of intelligence.”
Forerunner of our genus homo, lie,
A million misty years ago, mayhap •
Not sapiens, but scientists agree,
On evidence provided by his “map,”
Just, as indubitably not a sap.
Forth in the dim red dawn his ways he went,
t Our pre-diluvian ancestor, a chap
Not to be classed as unintelligent.
lie fought and chased and feasted mightily,
lake us —though vast the intervening gap.
One senses that those canine teeth would be
line things about an aurochs steak to
wrap,
And formidable weapons in a scrap
Our forebear’s fistic prowess to augment.
An ugly brute to tackle —and to cap
All, incontestably intelligent.
He sampled war and love and poverty—
A link with us that aeons may not snap—
Sat underneath (or in) the greenwood-tree,
111 bet, at times, a sheila on his lap.
Soft nothings' possibly he might not yap
Or to articulate discourse give vent.
Yet who’s to say his ladye cared a rap
Or found him any less intelligent?
A million years or thereabouts b.c.
His days on this entrancing earth he
spent....
And have we changed in anv great degree
Except to outward view? Who claims that
we
Are more than passably intelligent?
n s.w.
T. THE R.


Victoria Means Variety
The stupendous panoramas of
BUFFALO and the placid, rippling
beauty of the GIPPSLAND LAKES —
The sandstone crags and peaks of the
GRAMPIANS and the sweet-smelling
charm of HEALESVILLE—
The thunder of surf along Victoria’s
gold and azure coastline, and the clean,
fresh winds, across the BOGONG
HIGH PLAINS.
ALL THESE AND A HUNDRED
AND ONE OTHER VARIED
DELIGHTS VICTORIA OFFERS
THE TOURIST.
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU
Queen’s Walk, Melbourne,
Martin Place, Sydney,
will help you to make your choice.
EXPERTS OK THE R.J.A!
Absolutely
without a rival
for appearance
and reliability.
A GIFT FOR ALL
TI ME
Sold by all Jewellers
—from £4/10/-
** The Quality Watch”
The Finest achievement in
the Watch-making World.
R. cJ - A
= LEVE R fig
WATCH
®%o.
When you come to
SYDNEY
You will find at Usher’s every essen-
tial to the enjoyment of your visit.
Hotel service that is homelike,
cuisine of rare excel-
lence, and that,
friendly hospitality
which you desire.
Telephone and run-
ning water in all
rooms. Book accom-
modation early.
Bed
and
Breakfast
Tariff
desired
Special tariff or inclusive terms.
OPP. THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
’Phone 86511 (10 lines).
Cable & Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel,” Sydney.
A
PERSONAL
ITEMS
William Lennon, Queensland’s Lieutenant-
Governor for the past nine years, was 80 the
other day; and he celebrated it by resigning
his office. Born in Dublin, he arrived in
Victoria at the age of six; his first job was
in the Mines Department, later he was a bank
clerk or manager in three States. Lennon
didn’t become an M.L.A. till he was close on
60, but he was in plenty of time to ride into
office on the crest of the Labor wave that
came with a rush a few years later.
Maoriland’s Rhodes Scholars this year are
P. C. Minns, a native of Albany, Westralia,
who is 22, and J. C. Dakin, born in Inver-
cargill in 1908. Minns received his early
education in the
Wairarapa district
and Auckland fin-
ished him off.
Dakin’s early
know ledge was
gained in South-
land, and Otago
Uni. put the final
touches on a bril-
liant career.
KENNETH
DUFFIELD, the
S. Australian who
mixes wool-
growing and
musical composi-
tion, and has just
been producer of
the enormously
successful League
of Nations’
pageant in
Adelaide.
During one of Mark Twain’s visits to Aus-
tralia he wrote that he had met, in a rail-
way train, a charming young priest who
would one day be a bishop, then an arch-
bishop, and later an archangel. The priest
was the late Bishop Cleary, of Auckland.
The mayoralty of Adelaide has gone, to
Lavington Bonython for another year with-
out contest. It is hi s fifth term during a
period of 15 years. C. R. J. Glover, him-
self an old holder of the seat, was in the
field, but withdrew, remarking pointedly,
however, that “I will offer my services
unreservedly next year,” and that “my
fellow councillors have promised me their
whole-hearted support.”
The third generation of a South Aus. legal
family has been admitted to the Bar in
Adelaide. Reinolf Homburg is son of Her-
man, the present Attorney-General of S.A.,
and grandson of Robert, who was in his
time Attorney-General before becoming a
•Judge. On the same day a McMahon
Glynn w r as admitted, a nephew of the veteran
K.C. and ex-M.H.R.
Westralia had only one Premier before
Federation, but it has known a baker’s dozen
since, and no less than seven of them are
still on deck. The half-dozen ex-Premiers
are A. E. Morgans, a mining magnate of the
early goldfields days, who has long lived in
retirement at Perth; Walter
James, K.C.; Newton Moore, a
British M.P.; “Happy Jack"
Scaddan, who has turned from
politics to the motoring trade;
H. B. Lefroy, the Walebing
squatter; Senator Colebatch;
and . Opposition-leader Jimmy
Mitchell, who is hopeful that
the turn of the wheel will put
him back again in his old job
next year.
The selection by the Ramsay
Mac. Government of Baron
Bledisloe, a Conservative peer,
as Maoriland’s G.-G. suggests
that British Labor is going to
find it hard, if not impossible,
to fill such jobs from the ranks
of its own supporters. The
salary is £7500, but it is evi-
dently realised that the King’s
representative must have pri-
vate means to supplement this;
otherwise the ruling party in
tlie Commons would never have
allowed such a piece of Govern-
ment patronage to go to a poli-
tical opponent. So far Governor
O’Grady, of the Speck, is the
only Labor appointment to, an
Australian Government House;
he is understood to have had
his choice between this and the
billet of Ambassador to Rus-
sia, and doubtless selected
wisely.
Died while on holiday in Eng-
land, Maoriland’s most cultured
K.C., John Findlay. Born at
Dunedin 67 years ago, he was
called to the Bar at 25, and he
was in partnership for a while
at Wellington with Bob Stout,
later C.J. Entering politics he
became leader of the Leg. Coun-
cil, Attorney-General and
Colonial Secretary in Ward’s
Administration when it went
out in 1911. He resigned his
Council seat when Ward was
defeated, and later entered the
Lower House as member for
Ilawkes Bay, but found the hurly-burly
distasteful and never stood for a second
term. It was on his initiative that
the rank of Kind’s Counsel was estab-
lished in the Dominion. As a barrister he
was highly successful, and although always
quiet, courteous and amiable a deadly cross-
examiner. A keen sense of humor helped
him through life, and a vein of quixotism
led him to undertake many a case in which
there were no guineas on the brief. Books
were his hobby.
By his conduct of the Greycliffe-Tahiti
case, young Judge Halse Rogers, one of the
comparatively new men on the N.S.W.
Supreme Court Bench, still further raised
the high opinion the Bar had formed of
him. This Judge knows his job, counsel
know that he knows it, so there is none of
the appalling waste of time which occurs
elsewhere. His judgment in the case is a
model of directness. Both vessels were to
blame (as they generally are in such cases)
—the Tahiti by speeding, the Greyeliffe by
changing course unnecessarily and without
ascertaining what the change would mean.
Verdict: the Tahiti having sustained no
damage and the Greyeliffe being sunk and
destroyed, the former to pay two-fifths of the
£30,000 loss sustained by the ferry owners.
Now the two cos. will get out their scribbling-
pads and figure out how the claims made
by and in respect of drowned passengers are
to be paid.
Eugene Monahan : A paragraph in a
recent Bulletin mentioned that the vet-
eran prospector Phil Saunders was in
Menzies (W.A.) Hospital, and • I am
pleased to be. able to add, on the
strength of a letter from the matron in
reply to my inquiry, that he has since been
discharged “very much better and stronger,
and a wonder for his age.” That he certainly
is. I myself prospected for alluvial in
Queensland as long ago as 1863, and‘ Phil
was there before me. I can remember Gov-
ernor Bowen proclaiming Thames Creek a
goldfield in 1864. It is 46 years since Saun
ders went over to Westralia, and there must
be others besides myself who will be glad
to know of his welfare.
Richard Tilden Smith, financier and col-
liery-owner, who dropped dead in the House
of Commons the other day after attending
a conference on the Coal Bill, was a N,: S.
Wales native, born at Muswellbrook 64
years ago. Ills father kept the Woolpack
Hotel at Parramatta in the early ’eighties.
The son sat for some years in the Leg.
N.S.W. Minister for
Mines WEAVER,
who had Ministerial
charge of the opera-
tions at Rothbury
coalmine, and was
on the field during
the trouble.
Assembly as M.L.A. for East Maitland, and
his first visit to England was made to
secure capital for a Maitland colliery. His
luck was out, for this was in the tight times
that followed the bursting of the Melbourne
land boom, but later he returned to England
and turned his knowledge of coalmining
to highly profitable account. His wife was a
Miss Gillies, daughter of a one-time Mayor
of East Maitland.
Prendergast, who was Chief Secretary in
Vic.’s last Labor Government,
is 75, which was sufficient in
itself to rifle him out as a Min-
isterial candidate on this occa-
sion. “Prendy” was 59 before he
got a sniff of office; it was little
more, for the Elmslie Govern-
ment, of which he was a mem-
ber, lasted only 13 days. He
was 70 when he was Premier
for four months in 1924.
The Speck’s Rhodes Scholar
for this year is Gollan Lewis,
a teacher in a Hobart State
School. Still in the early twen-
ties, he is the youngest first-
assistant teacher in the Tas.
service.
Claude de Bernales, West-
ralia’s most hustling and
debonair mining-man, who has
done more than any other to
bring the Wiluna field —from
which so much is hoped—into
prominence, came to Goolgardie
in the middle ’nineties, fresh
from an English public school.
He was always a plucky mining
investor, and showed .shrewd-
ness in adding foundries and
traffic in all kinds of machinery
to his activities; in this depart-
ment he has survived all com-
petitors. Claude, who makes
frequent trips to England, has
just returned after a twelve-
months’ absence. He comes of
Basque ancestry, and has artis-
tic tastes.
“Good old Piddo” began life
as a school-teacher and he seems
to still think he has the old job.
It was while he was in Sydney
High that he studied for the Bar.
While Irvine, Vic. C.J., is
away for a couple of months
(the long vacation and a little
over) on a trip to Colombo,
Justice Mann will be deputy.
Cussen, who is No. 2, is on
leave himself.
As was anticipated, Laborite Brownbill,
of Geelong, was made chairman of commit-
tees of Vic. Assembly. Dick Toutcker, Oppo-
sitionist, sought to nominate Bob Solly, who
was chairman in the last Parliament, but the
latter refused, explaining that those from
whom Ire would have accepted nomination
from his own side of the House had labelled
him “Not wanted.” Cook, of Bendigo, and
Hayes, of Melbourne, who have been in Vic.
Assembly five years or thereabouts, have
been nominated by Labor for the Railway
Standing Committee, which is a sort of
training ground for Ministers, and carries
an extra £240 a year to add to the Parlia-
mentary screw of £5OO.
■Manly (N.S.W.) loses its L. S. Crakan-
thorp at 73. It was he who began his regime
as inspector of nuisancees by summonsing his
own relations and two of the aldermen as
an earnest of his impartiality. He enlisted
for the war at 57, and even battled to the
front, but he was weeded out as being a bit
too mature. When a hospital ship on which
he was travelling was torpedoed he didn’t
wait for a place in the boats, but dived over-
board and swam to the nearest t.b.d. When
he reached 65 the Manly Council decided
by special resolution that the vigorous old
chap was too young to retire. In his early
days he was a fine athlete and he was always
a. front-rank chess-player.
Jones, Vic. Minister for Public Works, who
leads for the Hogans in the Uppah Chambah,
is a bit of a squatter as well as a metro-
politan clothing manufacturer. One of his
qualifications for office is that he knows half
the members of the Ramsay Macdonald Gov-
ernment personally.
After more than half a century’s service
as a Vic. Government officer A. B. Stanhope,
Inspector of Stores, will retire on May 1.
Until recently he was sec. of the Treasury
Tender Board. His understudy, Kealy, has
taken over that job.
Vic. Labor, which has held office for a year
and 104 months altogether, has in its ranks
13 Executive Councillors with free passes on
the railways for life. These 13 are apart
from William Plain, David Smith and Martin
Hannah, who were members of the first
Labor Ministry (Elmslie’s) in 1913 and have
left the party since. There are 60 Executive
Councillors who were brought in by non-
Labor Governments. *
“C.J.8.W.” : Firm allies and fast friends in
England are High Commissioner Ryrie and
his brother-in-law, General Bruche, the Aus-
tralian Military Representative m Eondon.
They married daughters of Alfred Mcr ar-
land, who was a District Court Judge before
bushranging and cattle-duffing went out of
fashion in the wilder parts of N. S. Wales.
The pair have done much touring together m
Fogland. '
J. A. Parkes, secretary of the River Mur-
ray Citrus-growers’ Association, moves to
Melbourne as manager of the Victorian Cen-
tral C.G.A., and is succeeded by N. Pi-
Underwood, an Englishman, who came _to
Australia 10 years ago, after serving
all through the war and being gassed
badly on the Somme. Underwood has been
fruit-growing at Curlwaa, and did similar
secretarial work there, besides editing the
Western Herald at Wentworth.
The trouble Stuart Robertson, MX.A., en-
countered in regard to the Labor selection
ballot arose out of the tangled affairs of
the Clerks’ Union. Like many other poli-
ticians, including Lang and Theodore,
Stuart Robertson relied for his trades union
affiliation upon his membership of that union,
and when the organisation neglected to
pay A.L.P. dues, the slur of being unfinan-
cial fell not only on the whole body but
upon individual members. To make them-
selves safe from challenge the politicians
had to dig into their own pockets to put
the union right on the A.L.P. books.
An old property close to Anthony Hor-
dern's in Geor-ge-street, Sydney, for which
£48,250 was declined last week, has some
literary associations of a sort. It was here
that an elderly citizen named Byers once
ran a residential, which was a refuge for
a multitude of Bohemians in times of stress.
Old Byers, a sixfooter, adorned with wild
whiskers and long hair, wrote and published
poetry of the “Bellerive” type himself, and
gave away signed copies freely. Pie regarded
every writer as a brother who had to be
provided with food and shelter if he wanted
it—and it was surprising how many did
want it. In spite of his benevolence the old
man made money.
It is customary to regard Federal Treas-
urer Theodore nowadays as the “white collar”
type of Laborite, yet he has probably done
more pick-swinging than the majority of his
Parliamentary comrades. Early in the cen-
tury and before he was out of his twenties,
he worked in or on mines in three States. The
future politician was a hefty lad engaged in
shovelling slimes on the Cue Victory, accord-
ing to a Murchison tradition, when the late
Jack Holman, barber and Labor organiser,
who was himself to become an MX.A., roped
him in and put the union brand on him. But
Ted didn’t stop long in the West. He had
accumulated enough wisdom, worldly and
otherwise, to put him into the Queensland
Assembly when he was barely 25.
JAMES GARFIELD BAY LEY, Nation-
alist Whip in the Federal Parliament.
Edward Massey, the veteran Sydney
organist who retired from St. Andrew’s
Cathedral some years ago, tells how he was
once travelling to Sydney from an out-back
centre, opposite to two passengers slightly
under the influence of the festive season.
Presently one of the pair started to sing in
a croaking voice a then popular ditty to the
rhythmic jolting of the train, the raucous
offering being freely syncopated with hic-
cups. The other meanwhile was staring
hard at Massey, and finally prodded the
would-be Caruso in the ribs. “Shut up, you
fool,” he said. Then, pointing to Massey,
“Don’t you know he’s a professor of that!”
1929.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
No use to ask you festinarc lente,
0 Twentieth Century, whose thrall I am.
Girls have I known who reckoned nine-and-
twenty
Birthdays—admitted ones, at least —were
plenty,
But nobody suggests you care a damn,
Or contemplate with aught approaching pique
The fact that you'll be thirty in a week.
Thirty years back —what memories it engen-
ders !
Fin dc siecle was the phrase that clung
About your predecessor’s dying splendors.
Aye, brother, you and I were century-enders
'With all the rest of them when we were
young.
We’ve lived to see a second Georgian age.
Considerably past the flapper stage.
Time you were settling down, like Mauds and
Gerties
Who take a pull and face the mirrors
truth
When they’re upon the threshold of the
thirties;
Time you were putting in the peg, for certes !
You’ve had a something more than flaming
youth;
Time you were giving us a smoother spin.
There’s quite a lot of time to do it in!
Old Year, your race is run. They’ll soon be
ringing
You out with the inexorable bell —
A hackneyed topic for poetic singing—
And here’s a hope that your successor’s
bringing
Much you’ve denied us in Ins pack as well.
Peace and goodwill would be the sort of line
We best could do with. Vale! Twenty-Nine.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


R°NE°
BUSINESS
EFFICIENCY
METHODS.
British Manufacture
STEEL CABINETS.
FILING SYSTEMS.
VISIBLE CARD
RECORDS.
RONEOTYPE
DUPLICATORS.
ADDRESSING
MACHINES.
ON EXHIBITION AT
71 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY.
SS
hr
■
64 MARKET STREET, MELBOURNE.
43 CREEK STREET, BRISBANE.
GAWLER PLACE, ADELAIDE.
107 MURRAY STREET, PERTH.
2SS
m
Long Service
Is Assured
No Pioneer Leather Belt leaves the
Factory until it is thoroughly tested.
Every Pioneer Belt that is delivered
carries with it our confidence that
it will give maximum of continuous
service. It is true economy to
specify Pioneer Belting because of
its durability and low maintenance
cost under the most trying condi-
tions.
PIONEER Leather Belting
MADE AND GUARANTEED BY
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
Pioneer House, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY (our only city address).
INSURE WITH THE
Mercantile Mutual
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Company—
Established 1878.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
Agencies in all Suburban and Country Centres.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
E m S. and A. Bank.
Net
Busi- Profits on
ness Old De- Written Re-
Profits. posits. Dividends. Off. serves.
June, . £ £ £ £ £
10 p.c.
1921 262,970 4519 128,807 22,500 1,445,541
1922 330,474 7004 131,989 50,000 1,601,090
Premiums on shares, £18,150 .. 1,019,240
124 p.c.
1923 395,348 0004 178,494 50,000 1,792,098
1924 467,502 8002 187,500 67,500 2,012,602
Premiums on shares, £302,331 . . 2,314,933
Transferred to capital, £300,000 . . 2,014,933
1925 505,981 2500 243,750 65,000 2,214,664
1926 522,308 750 281,250 . 82,000 2,3'74,472
Royal Bank absorbed.
Net additions to reserves, £400,000 . . 2,774,472
1927 540,988 1250 295,313 95,000 2,926,397
Premiums on shares, £379,249 . . 3,305,646
1928 588,769 63 375,000 148,500 3,370,978
1929 591,263 375,000 159,500 3,427,741
With surplus earnings visibly £3,427,741,
and the use of £1,872,966 of perpetual stocks
costing the co. only a whisper over 34 p.c., it
is obvious that the E., 8. and A. is very
well equipped to earn a high return on its
£3,000,000 of share capital. To pay a 124
p.c. div. total funds at June 30 (capital,
reserves and perpetual stocks combined) had
to turn in only 44 p.c. clear, whereas the
£591,263 actually netted was 7.1 p.c. on
those funds. On share capital alone it was
19.7 p.c. compared with 19.6, 23.1, 25.9
and 31.1 p.c. back to 1924, when unprece-.
dented prices for wool and metals enabled
the management to gather a rich harvest of
exchange and other earnings.
Despite the further drop impending in
security values, the co. disclosed a trifle more
net profit last year. But that was because the
taxation bills (mainly the English one)
were £20,515 lighter in the aggregate:—
Gross 1923 ' 1926. 1928. 1929.
profits £1,251,197 £1,365,860 £1,627,995 £1,619,924
Expenses 557,039 662,163 808,472 818,422
Taxes 223,311 161,389 220,754 200,239
Net Profit £470,848 £598,769 £601,263
Thus, after paying interest on the perpetual
stocks (a reminder, these, of the crash of
the ’nineties) and making whatever provision
was considered necessary for bad and doubt-
ful debts and other contingencies, the year’s
gross profit was written £BO7l short of the
1928 figure, notwithstanding a growth of
£3,315,233 in advances. Fixed deposits were
up only £729,209, cash and low interest-
bearing securities being drawn upon for
£2,570,612.
But, after all, profits declared, are only an
estimate, the accuracy or otherwise of which
may take years to determine ; just how bad
or how doubtful any debt may be is largely
a matter of guesswork until it is liquidated.
In the circumstances it is only natural that
the board, being prudent men, would be a
bit more cautious than usual in their esti-
mate of the trading result for the past year;
thus further strengthening the inner reserves.
In this respect it is worth noting that a
fixed percentage of the profits has been used
each year in buying up the 44 p.c. deferred
stocks, the last £59,500 of which were
cleared off the books during the last term.
The amount of stock bought has been regu-
larly struck off the book value of premises.
In addition, £50,000 of last year’s trading
profits was used for the same purpose.
Another £50,000 was earmarked for contin-
gencies, and a like amount so tagged in the
previous year disappeared. Assuming that
the last £50,000 will be. similarly treated, no
less than £308,000, or 26.1 p.c. of the dis-
closed profits, will have been whisked away
in inner reserves in the last two years. Dur-
ing the nine years to the close of last
accounts £741,000 has disappeared from view
in this way.
The remarkable development of the busi-
ness of recent years has been hastened by
amalgamations and otherwise. In 1921 the
London Bank of Australia and the Com-
mercial of Tasmania were absorbed, and less
than three years ago the Iloyal of Australia,
which had a very solid little Victorian busi-
ness and growing connections elsewhere,
was taken over. Thus the E., S. and A.
stepped up from seventh to third place as
a deposit holder amongst the associated
banks here. Including a surplus of £66,578
on the sale of some of the Royal’s premises,
the profit on the deal was £400,000. This
was added to reserves, which also benefited
by £379,249 of share premiums, etc.
This next comparison of balance-sheet
figures reflects the merger with the Royal,
the co.’s strength and other things:—
Liabilities.
1926. 1928. 1929.
Notes .. .. £1,128 £1,083 £1,083
Bills, etc. .. 2,393,680 2,531,983 2,891,325
Deposits at in-
terest . . 15,538,685 20,422,890 21,152,099
Free deposits. . 12,379,946 12,968,377 12,582,397
Total . . £30,313,439 £35,924,333 £36,626,904
Assets.
Liquids . . £14,947,252 £17,487,243 £14,916,631
Advances . . 21,542,691 26,272,106 29,587,339
Premises . . 762,684 753,429 758,641
Total .. £37,252,627 £44,512,778 £45,262,611
Despite last year’s drop in liquids they were
still 40.7 p.c. of the total liabilities to the
public, and depositors and others- could see
20.1 p.c. of every pound coming to them
in cash and at short call. Advances, which
were 78.7 p.c. of the deposits at the close of
accounts in 1925, mounted to 87.7 p.c. at
June 30, and a strong demand for money has
continued. The ratio averaged 08.2 p.c. for
the September quarter. However, including
the perpetual stocks with the bank’s own
funds, it was holding only £4 Bs. 2d. of the
public’s money for every £1 of its own at
June 30 as against £4 6s. 6d. &> year earlier.
Although the strengthening of the tariff
has begun to liven local manufacture, and
recent rains have improved the seasonal
outlook over much of Australia, and the
drop in the Bank of England rate to 5 p.c.—
that is half a point lower than the one
from which it took its recent sudden leap—
lias relieved a lot of the tension on the Lon-
don money market, prospects are that trade
generally will be much quieter during the
coming year. Wool averaged only £l3 16s.
6d. per bale for the four months to Oct. 31
as against an average of £22 ss. Bd. for the
corresponding period of the previous season.
Also the wheat harvest is not expected to
exceed 110 million bushels, or about 30
million bushels less than the average for the
last six years. Further, circumstances have
forced a curtailment of Government expendi-
ture, a check has been placed upon imports,
and Government borrowings threaten to mop
up most of the available cash on the local
market during the next 12 months. It is
all a plain call to get costs down, increase
our production arid buy less abroad. At
the moment the ugliest spot in the picture
is the trouble on the Northern coalfields;
but when it does end a reduction in the sell-
ing price of coal seems probable, and that
would help to liven trade.
In the investment market the co.’s £5
shares paid to £3 were priced at £9 in Feb-
ruary last; they eased steadily to £7 10s.
about a month ago, since when there has
been a sharp drop to £6 195., due partly to
the reaction which followed the fall from
124 p.c. to 10 p.c. in the B.N.S.W.’s dis-
tribution. At £6 19s. the return is 5.3 p.c.
on a 12J p.c. div. basis. The visible backing
amounts to £6 18s. 6d. per share in net tan-
gibles.
The British Tobacco Co. (Australia), Ltd.
r~ — : Dividends : —^
6 p.c. Re-
Profits. Pref. Ordinary. serves.
Jan., £ £ £ £
1919. . 541,951 89,084 12 p.c. = 451,762 33,1:68
1920.. 544,773 89,084 12 „ ~ 454,587 34,270
1921.. 582,979 89,084 12 ~ ~491,987 36,178
Special div. from subsidiaries, £628,591,
distributed as bonus shares.
1922.. 751,373 89,084 12 p.c. = 661,067 37,400
1923.. 773,202 89,084 12 „ ~682,400 39,118
1924.. 776,535 89,084 12 „ „ 685,844 40,725
1925.. 779,452 89,084 12 „ ~689,034 42,059
1926.. 783,453 89,084 12 „ „ 692,684 43,744
1927.. 786,876 89,084 12 ~ „ 696,354 45,182
Co. reconstructed; shares in subsi-
-12 m’ths diaries written up, £2,324,131,
to and that amount capitalised.
Oct., 64 p.c.
1928.. 916,506 96,507 10 p.c. = 813,446 7,659
1929. . 1,011,307 96,507 11 „ „ 894,791 27,668
This is the big holding concern which in
1903 amalgamated the interests of W. D.
and 11. O. Wills (Australia), Ltd., the
British Australian Tobacco Co. (which com-
bined the Cameron and part of the Dixson
businesses) and the States Tobacco Co.
(which embraced Sutton and Co., and Jacobs,
Hart and Co. and the other part of Dixson’s
business). Later S. T. Leigh and Co., a
printing concern, was sandwiched into the
group. But it was more than 10 years
before the public was allowed in, and even
though it has since become more deeply
interested, it gets little information con-
cerning the subsidiaries, whose health charts
are not exhibited. The holding co.’s own
figures tell little more than they have to.
For years the practice has been to dis-
close only a trifle more profit than the divs.
have called for. But annually shareholders
receive the comforting assurance that the
various businesses are making satisfactory
progress, and that the published figures do
not include the co.’s interest in the undis-
tributed profits of the subsidiaries. Evidence
on these points is furnished by the growth
in the capital account, to which £4,470,923
lias been added since 1915, making it.
£9,619,186 in 1,484,727 6-J p.c. cum. prefs.
and 8.134,459 oi'ds. at Oct. 31 last. The
whole of the increase has been provided by
the issue of ord. scrip, of which £1,51 5,201
was put out for cash at par. mostly during
the two years to December, 1920. The other
£2,952,722 represents the face value of two
lots of bonus scrip scattered since the close
of accounts in 1921. These sweets came from
the heap behind the curtain which the co.
keeps drawn over the subsidiaries’ figures.
The suspected pressure of profits was last
relieved about two years ago, when a two-
for-five gift issue was made. This called
for £2,324,131, and was provided by writing
up the book value of holdings in other cos.
by that amount, thus bringing the entry at
least that much nearer its real value.
Having written up its shareholdings the
old co., in order to gain a little relief from
taxation, transferred its registered office from
London to Melbourne, where a new concern,
the Consolidated Investment Co., Ltd., took
over the assets. Then the new co. replaced
the old co.’s 6 p.c. prefs. with 61 per
cents, on a share-for-share basis. Next it
changed its name by hanging up the old sign,
British Tobacco Co. (Australia), Ltd., and
a 10 p.c. div. to the ords. was declared;
the old co. paid a regular 12 p.c. All this
added £124,515 to the dividend requirements
for the 12 months to Oct. 31* 1928; but there
was an obliging _spring of £129,630 in the
admitted net profit, which increased a further
£94,801 last year, when an extra 1 p.c. was
handed out.
That the holding co. had not even then
claimed all the profit to which it was en-
titled from the operating cos. can be inferred
from the fact that the ord. div. lias been
raised to 12 p.c. again since the close of last
accounts. With the pref. requirements it
will call for £61,335 more profit than was
claimed last year, but that will cause neither
shareholders nor the market any anxiety,
notwithstanding the recent increase in the
duty oil tobacco. It makes the icing on
the ords.’ cake nearly 5 p.c; richer than it
was two years ago.
Here is the abbreviated picture of the busi-
ness that balance-sheet figures present:—
1915. 1929.
Paid capital .. .. .. £5,148,263 £9,619,186
Sundry creditors, etc. .. 13,862 2,773
Shares in subsidiaries (book
value) 4,769,470 7,722,192
Public securities . . . . 345,050
Book debts . . . . . . 450,889 1,568,133
Cash 2,900 14,252
Judged on the basis of capital and reserves
combined the undertaking is now Australia’s
largest industrial concern, the figures exceed-
ing those of the big C.S.R. The co. lias
practically a monopoly of the trade so far
as local manufacture is concerned, and the
assistance of the tariff against imported
lines. So, all things considered, it is not sur-
prising that the investment market is con-
tent to back the management and discount
the future by paying 445. 9d. for the pound
ords. At that figure the return is only 5.3
p.c. on a 12 p.c. div. basis, or less than the
return to be had from Commonwealth bonds.
The well protected prefs., which enjoy
priority as to capital and carry a fixed cumu-
lative 64 p.c., are priced at 255. 9d.; at which
figure the return is a shade over 5 p.c. The
visible net asset backing amounts to
£6 9s. lid. per share, and their annual
requirements were covered nearly 10J times
by last year’s net profit.
Amalgamated Textiles (Australia), Ltd.
This co. was launched in March, 1923,
and put up mills at Albury and Orange,
;N. S. Wales. At Sept. 30 last paid capital
was £449,481, and there was still £35,373
of calls to come in, the residue of an unpaid
£87,075 on the books three years earlier.
That balance was an outcome of the decision
—sound in the circumstances—not to erect a
mill at Tamworth. The Albury plant did
not get to work until 1925, and production
began at Orange a year or so later. Results
were disappointing. At Sept. 30, 1928, the
accounts exhibited losses aggregating £52,513,
of which £46,463 had been capitalised, thus
leaving £6049 on the wrong side of the p.
and 1. account. In addition formation and
preliminary exes, ran off with £34,647,
mostly the result of ambitious share-selling
in the early stages.
Following a change in the management
about 18 months ago, there was an improve-
ment in the figures, and for the generally
depressing 12 months to Sept. 30 last a net
profit of £15,009 was claimed compared with
a loss of £5lOl in the previous year. Sales
(£196,266) were £63,082 better, notwith-
standing that Competition had sharpened;
indeed it was not until the term was well
advanced that the order book filled suffi-
ciently to keep the plant running at some-
where near capacity. Also the drop in the
price of wool did the co. no harm. But
there was so little in it all that the net
result of the year’s trading was equal to
only 3 p.c. on the paid capital. Still the
earnings were better than they look, inas-
much as no less than £81,240 was repre-
sented by accumulated losses and prelimi-
nary exes., etc.; and, further, the co.’s share-
holding in the W.A. Woollen and Worsted
Mills, in the books at £lO,OOO, are admitted
to have no saleable value. Nor is that all.
When the co. put up its mill buildings and
bought its chief earning asset, the plant,
construction costs and prices for textile
machinery were very much higher than they
are to-day; and in this class of business
plant calls for a pretty heavy maintenance
bill and depreciates rapidly. At Sept. AO
plant was given a value of £223,808 in the
accounts, and against that figure was a book
entry of £30,060 for depreciation.
To bring the figures more into line with
the actual position, and thus improve share-
holders' prospects of getting some return
on their investment, it has been decided to
clean the slate by writing down buildings
and plant to present-day values, and by
rubbing the intangibles, including the shares
in the W.A. co., out of the books. To do
all this 6s. Bd. is to be struck off the face
value of each share, reducing it to 13s. 4d.
Disregarding calls in arrears, this will pro-
vide £149,827, and together with the p. and
1. balance and the depreciation and forfeited
share l’eserves will make available £189,447.
The intangibles, etc., will use up £91,240 of
that, leaving £98,207 to set against the
present book value of plant, etc. Whether
the cut is deep enough only the future
can decide definitely. After the writing
down paid capital will stand at £299;654, on
which last year’s profit was equal to 5 p.e.
Net earnings, therefore, will need to brighten
a lot yet before shareholders can get any-
thing attra'cfivc in the way of divs., even
on their reduced capital. Here is the co. s
position, with comparisons, as far as balance-
sheet figures disclose it:—
1925. 1927. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital. . £291,990 £442,519 £448,079 £449,481
Overdraft .. 33,429 54,883 69,025
Sundry creditors 2,318 17,437 5,569 11,101
Freeholds . . 49,033 89,301 89,301 96,123
Plant, etc. . . 139,436 210,566 211,065 223,808
Fittings . . 580 1,012 1,018 1,129
Stocks . . 20,573 85,615 99,735 119,571
Book debts . . 7,549 20,170 27,416 35,512
Shares in other
cos. .. 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000
Cash, etc. . . 13,334 2,934 2,408 2,503
Intangibles . . 53,803 81,988 87,159 81,240
There is nothing uncomfortable about the
finances. To meet outside, liabilities amount-
ing to £80,786, there were stocks, book debts
and cash, etc., totalling £357,586, thus leav-
ing a more or less liquid surplus of £76,800
at Sept. 30, and that was £7693 better
than at the previous balance. Much, of
course, depends upon the figure at which
stocks, up £19,886 during the year, were
written into the sheet.
During the latter half of the term the
board bought the Goulburn Woollen Mills
from the liquidator at “a satisfactory figure,”
and these mills are now claimed to be earn-
ing a profit. The deal is reflected by in-
creases of £14,742 in the overdraft and
of £12,743 in the book value of plant; it is
also partly responsible for the growth in
stocks. The Goulburn co. was formed in
1923. At Jan. 31 last its paid capital was
£133,761; to represent it there were net
tangible assets in the books at £59,825 —
plant figured at £58,141 and freehold at
£33,687.
Though still not well known, the Amalga-
mated Co.’s products, mostly worsteds, are
steadily growing in favor in the trade;
since the close of accounts orders have come
in freely, output having reached its maxi-
mum, and that is encouraging. The recent
strengthening of the tariff should help the
management to hold the business won. It
is not altogether an advantage that the co.’s
mills are scattered, and that the one at
Orange depends upon the other at Albury
for tops. This means expense. . Still it has
its advantages so far as the supply and
quality of labor is concerned.
Lamson Paragon, Ltd.
To Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1919.. 6,103 121 p.c. = 4650 1,453 4,552
Added to goodwill, £2OO .. 4,3,52
Premium on new shares, £1792 6,144
1920.. 15,193 10 p.c. = 5811 9,382 15,526
1921.. 3,947 10 „ „ 7500 11,973
1922.. 12,632 10 ~ „ 7500 5,132 17,105
1923. . 17,736 10 „ „ 7500 10,236 27,341
1924.. 14,123 10 ~ „ 7500 6,623 33.964
1925.. 14,307 121 „ „ 9375 4,932 38,896
1926.. 13,913 12l ~ „ 9375 4,538 43,434
1927.. 12,980 121 „ ~ 9375 3,605 47,039
Brisbane preliminary exes., £6lO 46,429
1928.. 11,376 121 p.c. = 9375 2,001 48,430
Reserves capitalised, £12,500 . . . 35,930
Premiums on new shares, £6O. . 35,990
1929.. 10,437 10 p.c. = 7710 2,727 38,717
This Melbourne co., which makes counter-
salesbooks and other commercial stationery,
and has factories at Sydney, Perth and Bris-
bane, put out an extra 25.000 pound shares
last year, making paid capital £lOO,OOO. In
order to pay 10s. per share on the new scrip
a little over one-quarter of the visible re-
serves was distributed. The cash half of
the issue went mostly into stocks and book
debts'. The Brisbane factory, built a couple
of years ago, was run at a loss for the 12
months to Oct. 31, 1925, and results again
failed to come up to expectations last year.
Elsewhere the general trade depression
affected earnings to some extent, and over-
head was increased by the 44-hour week,
(Continued on page 16.)


k
I
\
F=
r—-jui
\
I
==^^s
SR
m
far
3TQ
£2
SiginpSri
iyv
4
i^\\
e
SS:
Ss
Quimper, Brittany
In their quaint Breton costumes the interesting inhabitants of Quimper pass to and fro
among picturesque old houses high over the city rise the graceful spires of the historic
Gothic Cathedral. And after a happy, varied and comfortable voyage on a 20,000 ton
Orient Liner, Brittany and the whole of France are easily accessible from Toulon,
ORIENT LINE


k
Mobilising'
tbe Gold
WHAT DOES IT MEAN?
In its December number the
“Wild Cat’’ Monthly tells
you. The whole financial posi-
tion is reviewed.
The Bank of N. S. Wales
has reduced its dividend rate.
What does that signify ?
Clearly things are threaten-
ing which investors ought to
know about.
In these uncertain days
every investor —even though
it be only in a life insurance
policy—owes it to himself and
his family to keep himself
informed.
Let the Monthly help you.
DECEMBER NUMBER
NOW ON SALE
SINGLE COPY, 2/- ; PER ANNUM,
22/6. Prom newsagents, or Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
«= * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
No greater tribute to the remarkable efficiency of
Pioneer Wood Pipe could exist than the record of
service that it has established on the many important
contracts where it has been specified. Its strength,
durability, ease of handling and the fact that it is
absolutely non-corrosive are factors that have con-
tributed to the great success of this excellent con-
duit. Write for a copy of free illustrated data
book. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns
Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.;
and at Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
* * * *
L. J. Smith, Estate Agent and Hotel Broker, Ulver-
stone, Tasmania, sells country and town properties
and businesses of all kinds. — Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
The “Explosives” House
Explosives and Accessories of All Kinds
Supplied at Lowest Prices.
Manufacturers of
RENDROCK,
The Safest, Cheapest and Most Effective High Explosive Known.
Can be forwarded by Rail or Steamer at ordinary rates of freight
Blasting Machines, Steel Rock Drills
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED i 10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
7he Standard of Quality throughout tho. Empire,
Monobol
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting 1 Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety f-us=>
Detonators
Cartridges
ADFIELDS
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest aiul best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS—DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadiields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and l
Foundries 1
Alexandria, Svdney, N.S.W.
Bassendean, Berth, W.A.
Branch
Office
( 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Vie.
J T. & G. Building, Brisbane,
which became operative in the Victorian
pi inting trade a little over a year ago. So
trom one cause and another the year’s gross
profit (£44,562) fell away £446. while the
cost Of handling the business (£34.072) was
£l4ll heavier. After allowing for minor
adjustments the contraction in the net
result was £939.
l he final figure was 13.5 p.c. on average
capital compared with 15.1, 17.3, 18.5 and
19 p.c. back to 1925; so the 24 p.c. bonus
which had gone out with the 10 p.c. div.
for four years was not repeated. The down-
ward trend of the figures is the result of
keener competition, mounting costs and finer
profit margins. Over the last half-dozen
years the improvement in gross profits
amounts to only £854, while the growth in
management and operating charges was
£9601. The difference has been partly offset
by better returns from the Westralian sub-
sidiary, in which the co. has £15,000 in-
This pup has paid 10 p.c. since
1924, and 5 p.c. before that.
Recent activities are reflected in this com-
parison of balance-sheet figures :
„ 1923. 1926. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital . . £75,000 £75,000 £75,000 £lOO,OOO
Liabilities . . 8,339 8,361 16,279 12,954
Premises. . . . 25,426 34,800 41,492 41,715
Plant, etc. .. 27,635 33,437 41,150 40,179
Stock • ■ ■ • 18,919 25,110 27,260 34,551
Book debts . . 20,602 20,824 23,289 27,772
Cash and sundries 9,514 8,915 2,143 1’414
Shares in other cos. 13,334 13,334 15,000 ls’ooo
Finances are comfortable. Last year £3325
was clipped off the amount coming to sundry
creditors, which includes provision for taxa-
tion. Stocks, in at valuation, were up £7291,
and book debts, after allowing for anything
bad or doubtful and including
£6410 advanced to the subsidiary during the
year, were £4483 heavier—there is a sug-
gestion there that trading was more difficult.
Tpiif yj lo more °i' less liquid surplus
(£00,<83, including stocks) was £14,370
stronger than at the close of accounts in
1928. The expansion of the business over
the last half-dozen years shows up in the
growth of £16.289 in the book value of
premises (£41,715 at Oct. 31, and probably
worth a lot more), and of £12,544 in the
figure at which plant appears.
To pay 10 p.c. on capital as it now stands
will call for only £437 less than was netted
last year. For the current year results will
depend, amongst other things, upon the
extent, if any, to which competition sharpens.
On the market 365. was offered for the scrip
a year ago; sellers now ask 335. At the
latter figure the return is a fraction over
6 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The visible
backing amounts to 275. 9d. in net tangibles,
of which Bs. 4d. is represented by premises,
Bs. by plant, 3s. by shares in other cos., alid
the balance by more or less liquids.
Gordon and Gotch (Australasia), Ltd.
~ , Dividends ~ Nominal
Half-year Net Pref. To Re- Re-
ended Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinaries, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Sept.,’22. .15,324 2799 Nil 12,525 35,766
Mar.,’23. .20,211 3667 8 p.c.=12,915 3,629 39,395
Sept.,’23. .26,982 4000 8 „ „ 12,915 10,067 49,462
Mar.,’24. .23,955 4000 8 „ „ 12,915 7,040 56,502
New share costs written off, £3856 . . 52,646
Sept.,’24. .33,851 4000 8 p.c. =16,000 13,851 66,497
Mar., ’25. .46,234 4000 8 „ „ 16,000 26,234 92,731
Sept.,’2s. .38,229 4000 8 „ „ 16,000 18,229 110,960
Mar.,’26. .39,261 4000 8 „ „ 16,000 19,2G1 130,221
Sept.,’26. .39,422 4000 8 „ ~ 20,000 15,422 145,643
Mar.,’27. .38,580 4000 10 „ „ 25,000 9,580 155,223
Sept.,’27. .42,142 4000 10 „ ~ 25,000 13,142 168,365
Mar.,’2B. .48,169 4000 10 „ „ 25,000 19,169 187,534
Sept.,’2B. .47,085 4000 12 „ „ 30,000 13,085 200,619
Mar.,’29. .50,771 401)0 12 „ „ 30,000 16,771 217,390
Sept.,’29. .52,151 4000 12 „ „ 30,000 18,151 235,541
When this co. re-amalgamated the scattered
Gordon and Gotch businesses a little over
10 years ago, the post-war slump and the
spade work which had to be done retarded
visible progress for a while. But earnings
quickly recovered and presently provided a
wide margin over the 8 p.c. divs., so 2-J
years ago the rate was lifted to 10 p.c”
Then, 18 months after that, the board sur-
prised the market by the ease with which it
added a bonus at the rate of 2 p.c. p.a. to
the 10 p.c. div. Though that put £lO,OOO on
to the annual distribution, last year’s 12 p.c.
was paid with as much comfort as 8 p.c. had
been three years ago. For the 12 months to
Sept. 30, gross profits sprang £11,968, reach-
ing the record figure of £171,007, of which
exes. (£68,477) took only 40 p.c. as against
40.3, 44.1 and 45.1 p.c. in the three preceding
years. Thus the net result benefited by
£7668 of the increase, mounting to £102,530.
The prefs. called for £BOOO of that, the
balance being equal to 18.9 p.c. on. average
ord. capital compared with 17.4, 14.5 and
15.7 p.c. in the three preceding years. For
several years the co. had a lot of money in
buildings in course of erection ; and though
their completion was followed by a general
trade depression, the improved facilities were
a help, and so were the better conditions
that arrived in Maoriland —for a long time
the Maoriland business had been a poor
contributor.
Reserves, by the way, are not quite as
stout a prop for capital as the bare figures
in the table suggest: they are labelled nomi-
nal because they are subject to £118,074 of
goodwill, which, however, was less than 1|
times last year’s net profit. In addition there
was the taxation reserve (£31,438), to which
£3354 net was added during the twelve-
month. Maybe there is some true profit
stored there. Also an unspecified amount is
regularly charged against earnings for
depreciation of plant, etc., and probably some
of the expenditure on modernising the co’s.
premises has been included in this.
The more profitable trading is further
reflected in this comparison of balance-sheet
figures:—
Sept.,’27. Sept.,’2B. Sept.,’29.
Paid capital .. £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Mortgages . . 66,357 45,009 8,572
Sundry creditors.. 147,941 132,532 132,485
Bank overdraft . . 108,389 84,151 85,666
Liabilities .. £322,687 £261,692 £226,723
Freeholds .. £208,015 £209,494 £208,546
Leaseholds . . 25,333 24,403 23,962
Plant, fixtures, etc. 52,655 52,284 50,980
Stock . . .. 326,247 292,164 293,046
Book debts . . 390,158 386,927 388,710
Other assets . . 23,658 41,051 45,384
Tangible assets.. £1,026,066 £1,006,323 £1,010,628
Last year the board was able to lop
£36,437 off the mortgage, reducing it to
£8572. The more or less liquid surplus
(£500,417, including stocks) was strength-
ened by £41,907, making the improvement
£83,041 in the last two years. Another
encouraging feature has been the reduction
of £41,625 in stocks since Sept. 30, 1926.
Considered in conjunction with other move-
ments it probably means that the manage-
ment has been weeding out dead lines and
livening the turnover in others. Nothing is
said as to the basis on which stocks have
been valued, and that has always caused
the “Wild Cat” concern in such cos. as
this one.
All shares rank equally in respect of
capital, and at Sept. 30 each had a backing
of 235. lid. in net tangibles. A year ago
375. was asked for the ords.; l'ecently sales
fluctuated between 365. 3d. and 335. 6d.
After allowing for the div„ the return at 345.
is 7.3 p.c. on a 12 p.c. div. basis. The prefs.,
which carry a fixed cumulative 8 p.c.. are
tightly held.
Primary Producers’ Wool Selling Co.
• The Primary Producers’ Wool and Produce
Selling Co., Ltd., is a Sydney concern which
is asking the public for £45,000 in 10 p.c.
cum. prefs. These, in the event of a wind
up, have priority as to capital.
The co. was formed about the middle of
last year to take over the Onyx Wool Co.,
Ltd., and engage in business as wool- and
produce-brokers. The Onyx co., which was
to get £lO,OOO in fully-paid ords., had a
lease of wool stores, including a show floor,
at Miller’s Point, and had been handling
and storing wool for some of the selling
houses for a couple of years. The public
was first offered 100,000 A and 50,000 B
shares, all ords. In this original prospectus
it was claimed that the co. would auction
lots consigned to it within 21 days of their
receipt, and that clients would be given con-
cessions on warehousing charges in excess
of the rebates on commissions made by the
co-operative members of the association.
In January last a second prospectus was
put out. This time 150,000 A shares were
offered, a further 8642 had been issued, in-
cluding 5000 paids to the Onyx co. and 3000
paids to C. H. Harding under modified agree-
ments. Also 17,000 B shares had been
subscribed. What the rights of the A and
B shares are the prospectuses have failed
to mention. Apparently the board early
realised that to sell wool within 21 days of
its receipt may neither be always practicable
nor in the best interests of clients; so, in
lieu of the rebates originally promised,
advances up to 25 p.c. of the estimated
value of consignments are to be made. These
advances to be free of interest for three
months.
In the more recent circular offering pref.
shares, the co.’s subscribed capital was stated
to be £129,110 at July 2. Three months earl-
ier it had a paid capital of £113,515, includ-
ing £2143 of calls in advance, and there was
£ll,llB coming to creditors. The chief asset
was plant, in at £103,970 (valuation). This
consisted of coal-hopper waggons, taken over
from Coal Hoppers, Ltd., whose plant figured
in its own accounts at £90,011 at Jan. 31,
1929. The scrip issued in connection with
this purchase appeared in the vendor’s sheet
at £101,320 at July 31. These waggons
are a queer purchase for a co. which is
setting out to build up a wool- and produce-
selling business to make. Other tangible
items in the selling co.’s sheet total only
£6549, while goodwill, preliminary exes., etc.,
figure at £14,140. Thus, on the figures at
April 30, the £45,000 of pref. capital, if it
can be got and when fully paid, would have
a paper backing of over £3 per share in
net tangibles. Still, the investor who' is
looking for safety might find more of it some-
where else.
Guinea Airways, the subsidiary formed by
Guinea Gold to inaugurate air transport
to the Bulolo field, has turned out an even
better goldmine than its parent. On a
paid capital of £20,000 the co. netted £8872
for the six months to Aug. 31, or nearly
double the profit for the previous six months.
Two Is. divs. absorbed £4OOO, and then
there was £7098 in the cupboard. The
amount coming to creditors was £4154, and
there was £15,273 in book debts and cash to
meet it. Premises, five aeroplanes, equip-
ment and stores stand at £15,979. Cargo
and passenger traffic are reported on the
increase, and another Junker ’plane has been
ordered.
* * * . *
Westralian jarrah and karri are being
extensively used in the Ruhr (German) coal-
mines, and are highly spoken of by the
owners of these pits. The Australian timbers
are reckoned to be more economical and more
serviceable than either oak or pine, and can
be imported in the exact dimensions required
Incidentally, it was a German who first dis-
covered the value of the Westralian millet
bark as a tanning agent, and large ship-
ments were sent away over a period of years
before anyone else was put wise.
* * ❖ *
Wiluna shares (W.A.) have had a fall
in the last few months, though developments
continue satisfactory, plant erection is well
forward, and the railhead, which used to be
120 miles away, is now within sight of the
mine. The drop is probably due to the de-
pression on the Stock Exchange, the fact
that the million sterling or thereabouts set
aside for development and plant is now
almost spent, and that more money will have
to be raised to bring the venture to the pro-
ducing stage.
ifc sfs j|s
Lady Central, Meekatharra (W.A.), has
thus far responded well to development. So
far as it has been opened up the lode being
worked is of high value, and has indica-
tions of becoming something worth while.
Lode material is similar to that which com-
prised the ore bodies in near-by div.-payers
of other days. A private syndicate has an
option over the show.
Westralia’s gold production for November
was worth £120,000, but investors received
little of it. After many years Gt. Boulder
paid a 3d. div., and owners of at least three
private shows did well. Miners and tributors
got most of the £120,000. The Wiluna Co.,
which has not yet reached the production
stage, spent about £lO,OOO.
* * :!: *
Associated goldmine (W.A.), which years
ago was reported to be finished, treated 3854
tons for £5733 during Nov. Tributors did
pretty well, but the net result to the co. was
a loss of £7BO.
* * !|! *
Water difficulty at Freney’s bore (W.A.)
has been overcome by filling the bore with
cement from the bottom to a height of 50ft.
up. The drill has since bored through the
50ft. of cement, and is now in sandstone.
At 2300 ft. boring is proceeding without
trouble from an excess inflow of either water
or oil.
‘‘Spare Towkay” : The recent jump in tin
prices was a welcome Christmas present to
Australian investors in tin-mining stocks, and
though the usual decline has followed it may
be due to market manipulation by dealers in
the metal. In any case, it has been so
small in comparison with the advance that
the improved quotes for listed stocks have
held well. The metal was at £lB2 17s 6d.
spot at last week-end, having recovered from
£173 2s. 6d. early in the month. The aver-
age for the 11 months to Nov. 30 was £206
3s. 3d. as against an average of £277
3s. lOd. for the corresponding period of 1928.
The future of prices will depend largely upon
the efficacy of the action now being taken by
the newly-formed Tin Producers’ Associa-
tion and the condition of trade generally,
especially in the U.S.A., which consumes
about half the world’s production of tin.
* * * *
Although most of the Australian dredges
earned less profit last year the leading Syd-
ney and Melbourne cos. did well; including
the fat £250,000 liquidation dividend by
Alluvial Tin, the Australian concerns passed
on nearly £700,000 to their shareholders.
❖ ❖ $ *
Satupolo, a Melbourne float for which
Pulo Tin was responsible, bought from its
parent in 1926 a- property in Western Siam.
The selected section of this was bored to go
a pound to the cubic yard. Operations
began some 15 months ago, but recoveries
did not approach estimates until September
last, when the average was ,891 b., and it has
improved since. In the report and accounts
for the two years ended March 31 the direc-
tors apologise for the long delay, due to
troubles concerning leases and surface rights.
To September 15, 1927, development, etc.,
ran off with £22,209. From September 16
to March 31 last, a net profit of £4760 was
shown. For the latter period income aver-
aged 5.82 d. per yard, but costs, always high
in Siam, ate up 4.34 d. of this. When
accounts closed the co. owed £27,439 to
sundry creditors. The consideration to the
parent co. was £30,000 in paids, and 17,500
paids plus £17,500 cash went to the original
vendor. Sellers Were asking 18s. for the
pound shares.
* * * *
Ronpibon Tin, a Melbourne float, which in
19.1(i took over the Austral Siamese Tin
Exploration Co.’s area in Siam, paid its last
shilling div. in Feb., 1928. For the year to
June JO last it netted £9404 from 306 tons
t. 0., or close on £5600 lesa than for the pre-
ceding year. The drop in the price of the
metal and the heavy clay met with during
the last six months of the term were respon-
sible for the poorer showing. Ground values in
the original boring estimates were stated at
from lib. 3oz. to lib. 12oz. per c.y. The average
recovery last year was only 11.590 z. Costs,
including the expensive renewal of a broken
bucket-band, due to the stiff clay, were
S.o4d. as against 5.39 d. for the year before.
Ihe co.’s pup, Ronpibon Extended, did not
contribute to the pool. Last month the
parent recovered 35.15 tons t.o. from 84,000
yards, an average of ,951 b. as against 29 tons
ti'om 78,000 yards for Oct. Paid capital
is £198,750 in 135,000 shares of £2 each—
-50,000 5 p.c. cum. prefs paid to £1 and
85,000 ords paid to 355. For the prefs.
buyers offer 10s., with sellers standing ofl
at 16s.


Poverty Point
“Alwyn”: Continuous vaudeville arrived
in Sydney before the ditto pictures. Craw-
ley, dramatic critic for Sunday Times and
Referee, left those papers' to open the
Oxford Hall, in George-street, with never-
ending entertainment. It was an old idea,
in some of the big towns in England to
employ specially bad vaudevillains as
theatre emptiers; they’d give atrocious per-
formances at the conclusion of each round
of the show, and so drive the people out.
Crawley used the early movies for the same
purpose.
“Aix-les-Coogee” : Because Berlin sees no
reason why it shouldn’t have a Chamber of
Dramatic Horrors, the Renaissance Theatre
has staged “Unemployed,” about a carpenter
with two sons—one a crook, the other a sex-
pervert. The daughter has had incestuous
intercourse, the results of which promise to
fall due about Act Y. In Act IV those
who are not foully murdered do away with
themselves more or less unpleasantly. Still,
it would take more than this to put the aver-
age Berliner off his sauerkraut.
“L.H.P.”: Jimmy Glover, in London
Stage, writes thus :
It was the fate, 40 years ago, of the late Alfred
Moul, for many years managing director at the
Alhambra, to incur the anger of and chastisement by
Miss Maggie Moore, the wife of the late J. C.
Williamson, of Williamson and Musgrove memory.
Miss Moore went out to Australia with her husband
to exploit a specialty play entitled “Struck Oil,”
and it was in protest against criticism in the
Melbourne Age that she publicly attacked Alfred
Moul.
I have no recollection of anything like that
happening in 1889. Can any other Bulletin
reader recall the incident? Maggie first
came to Sydney in 1875, and returned in
1879. “Struck" Oil” by 1889 was a stock
piece, long past the spears of criticism.
“L.H.P.”; In war times patriotic lines
have the audiences violently applauding.
Knight’s references to English soldiers in
“A Royal Divorce” nearly brought Sydney
Royal "down in 1914, and when Bandmann,
as Melnotte in “The Lady of Lyons” in
1870 (the Franco-Prussian war era), said
“France wants more soldiers,” local audi-
ences clapped furiously. The funniest of all
was the unexpected applause meted out to
Frank Wilson in 1914. He was singing
the burlesque ditty “For He Is an English-
man” in “Pinafore.” Sydney took it. as a
patriotic song and encored it nightly.
“T.P.”: “Melbourne cannot run a panto-
mime this year.” Bunkum— —notwithstanding
the extensive reasons advanced for the lapse.
A financier, in a letter to the press, points
out that he instructed a theatrical manager
to go ahead with a pantomime. The theatre
wanted, however, had to remain closed, the
result of an arrangement between firms.
Squawkies or nothing, eh!
“Monodist”lrma Caron, the Maori-
melody expert (B. 11/12/’29) ( , excels in
Australian items, also. Included in her
repertoire is “Wadaedae’s Love Song” an abo.
composition which throbs with Binghi’s idea
of music. She has also scored with her “Song
of the Kookaburra,” wherein she imitates
.Tacky’s laugh to perfection. She recently
signed a Paramount contract to do a series
of singing “shorts.”
“Stormer”: The re-creation by Gregan
McMahon of Melbourne’s Bijou as a legit,
house recalls Emelie Melville’s triumphs.
She was associated there with tenor Armes
Beaumont and other light-opera singers. Now
a grey-haired old lady, Emelie Melville, like
Nance O’Neil, is playing mother roles in
American talking-pictures. Only the other
day she came to Australia in shadow, in
the picture “Illusion.” Incidentally, De
Rougemont, who. out-fibbed Munchausen,
made his only stage appearance in Mel-
bourne at the Bijou.
“Santander”: Frank Vosper, author of
“The Murder on the Second Floor,” which
the Firm is doing at Melbourne Comedy,
first assailed the attention of the critics as
a palpably efficient young actor in the Lon-
don production of “Yellow Sands,” by Eden
Phillpotts. Soon afterwards Vosper flour-
ished a sudden ability for short-story writ-
ing, and had some good tales published in
London magazines. “The Murder on the
Second Floor” is not his first dramatic effort,
but it is the first to reveal to him the hand-
some possibilities of successful play writing.
Recently he completed a new one, “People
Like Us,” which had a higher literary ambi-
tion. The fair Maorilander Marie Ney
exhibited her highly-burnished talent in thie
prinicipal part.
“Aristophanes”: Concerning the confu-
sion over the Gilbert Emery who played
the < detective in “Behind That Curtain.”
Writing in the London News, E. A.
Baughan, who knows his theatre, singled
Emery out for special praise, and said he
was a Londoner who had written, several
plays. “Who’s Who in the Theatre,” how-
ever, says that Gilbert Emery, an actoi
who wrote “Tarnish,” among other plays,
was born in Naples (New York State)
The Fox publicity sheet describes him as
an Englishman. Personally, I believe the
picture chap’s name isn’t Emery at all, but
Emory.
“Aristophanes”: Talkies have cut sc
deeply into Perth musicians that the city
on the Swan boasts only one complete
orchestra in its picture theatres. Big,
highly-paid combinations had to leave
Hoyt’s and the Capitol, and at the Prince
of Wales a mere handful is in attendance
in case of breakdowns. Bert Howell shakes
the baton over a splendid orchestra at the
Ambassadors, Union Theatres’ “atmo-
spheric” show; but even he and his merry
men will probably soon join their comrades
in the search for a job. A few are fitted
in. Harry Cross, previously conductor at
the Capitol, is now in charge of the talkie
volume controls.
“E C.” • Claude Flemming, long associated
with J.C.W. musical shows, including Lilac
Time ” appears in a Hollywood talkie. He
introduced himself to Los Angeles as one
who could teach movie stars the English
language. The picture he is in bears the
topical title “The Unholy World.”
“O. Blin” : Alluding to the alleged genius
of Leon Gordon as John Tanner m ‘ Man
and Superman,” the Williamson puff bureau
claimed that Tanner is the longest part that
has ever been written. The man who
hatched the statement is apparently not
aware of the existence of H'amlet, Cyrano
de Bergerac and L’Aiglon, all greater strains
on the lungs of their interpreters than
Shaw’s semi-juvenile notion of a radical
philosopher. Even Shakspeare’s classic
example of verbosity is vocally outranged
by Nina in Eugene O’Neill’s Strange
Interlude.” With but an hour’s interval
for dinner in the New York production ot
the play, she almost continuously burbled
her slim surface thoughts and sultry asides
from 5.30 p.m. to a few minutes before mid-
night.
“O. Kay”: Millard Johnson, who is pur-
chasing equipment for the production of
talkies by Union Theatres in Australia,
started very modestly with lately dead v\.
A. Gibson years ago. The pair of them pion-
eered the industry in Australia, and estab-
lished the first film exchange. Johnson had
as much say as his late partner in the
production of the world’s first photoplay,
“The Exploits of the Kelly Gang,’ which
was distributed by the Tails, and the
interiors of which were shot in the back yard
of Gibson and Johnson’s chemist shop at
St. Kilda.
“E.E.W.” : Norman McKinnel, who acted
well through the last Boucicault season in
Australia, has been tempted into vaudeville
by a fat offer. He does not follow the
example of Mrs. Pat Campbell, Sybil
Thorndyke and other stars of the London
stage, for it is not his first appearance m
the halls. He proposes risking a presenta-
tion of Mr. Carson in Barries Halt an
Hour,” which is curious 'diet to otter a
London vaudeville audience.
“T.P.”: Mention of Louise Pomeroy (B.
11/12/’29) brings to mind a Melbourne
Royal full-dress rehearsal with her as Ham-
let. A scene-painter’s assistant capsized
a drum of paint from the flies, missing her
by inches, and splashing her irreparably.
Looking up at the anxious face of the assist-
ant, she said, “That’s between you and me.
Don’t mention it. I have a change. bne
received a gorgeous floral offering from
the saved painter on opening night. It cost
every bean he had.
“L.” : An attempt to restore vaudeville is
being made in Perth, where Nigel Brock has
a show consisting mostly of local talent. On
the other hand, the Luxor, formerly the
Shaftesbury, has closed its doors after count-
less years of vaudeville presentation, and
both the Theatre Royal and His Majesty s,
the homes of the Westralian stage, have not
had a show for weeks.
“Lond” ; The most unsavory thing seen on
the modern stage has come to London Globe,
as a proved American success. “The Bache-
lor Father.” An old reprobate (British),
feeling lonely, decides to collect his illegiti-
mate children, from Italy, England and the
U.S.A. Two of them promptly fall in love
with each other, so there is some still closer
inquiring into details of paternity, to prove
that father was deceived as to one of these.
And he is left to console himself with the
American daughter, who says lovingly “Ain’t
I your little baby blankard?” —only she lias
not the Bulletin’s delicacy about clothing
the word.
“Glen A.” : Recent reference to the Firm’s
advertising efforts from the air recalls that
the first Australian advance agent to adver-
tise a theatrical show from the skies was
Sid Russell. From a ’plane he bombarded
Cootamundra (N.S.W.) with literature
advertising D. O’Connor’s show “Going Up. ’
“L.H.P.”: In Rignold’s day, when busi-
ness was not so good as it might have been,
a collector called at Sydney Majesty’s and
found George lounging in a chair. The col-
lector did not know him, and asked
the whereabouts of the manager. George
answered by pointing to himself ; with a
magnificent gesture. “But who,” asked the
worried dun, “is higher than you here?”
Then Rignold spoke. Pointing upward, he
said conclusively, “God!”
“Alwyn”: Apropos the revival of “A
Message from Mars” in Melbourne. As far
back as 1903 W. Franklyn Barrett staged
a picture version of the “Message” in Maon-
land. It was in those days a “big feature”
—-exactly 400 feet long. Only six people
were employed in its making, but it was
notable as the first picture in which trick
photography was resorted to for dramatic
effect. It was quite devoid of such modern
improvements as “fade-ins,” “fade-outs” and
“close-ups,” but it made money.
“Oskosh” ; Mystery-thriller “In the Next
Room,” added to Muriel Starr’s repertoire,
was written by charming Eleanor Robeson,
who was the original “Merely Mary Ann”
and . daughter of Madge Carr Cook, the
creator of Mrs. Wiggs of the Cabbage Patch.
Miss Robeson married August Belmont, who
went to the altar with the comforting know-
ledge that his bride was marrying one of
the richest men in the world.
THE SIDE-SHOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A noisy drum, a saxophone
Luring the young with blatant tone;
Performers on a platform ranged—
How little have the side-shows changed!
The same parade that thrilled us so
As children —“Come to see the show!’’
The conjurer with shining hat,
Spangled rope-walker, acrobat.
Glibly the brazen spruiker gives
Details. The old superlatives
Are lavished on the tawdry group,
The tenth-rate buskers of his troupe.
As he orates, a dingy clown
From the high platform wheezes down
Time-tarnished jests that brought a glow
To us —how many years ago?
But as I chuckle, show-day-wise,
I catch the evil of his eyes,
Mean eyes and furtive which appraise
The crowd beneath with crafty gaze!
So might a serpent poised to kill
On a cowed victim gloat its fill.
And suddenly the sallies grate,
His banter is a thing to hate.
There comes a sadness in the day;
And from the throng I turn away,
Shunning those eyes that seem a plan
To wreck my sturdy faith in Man.
MAORILAND.
C. H. WINTER.
THE CARNIVAL.
BY HAROLD MERCER.
Throw down the pen and drop the spade.
And in the surf of pleasure splash!
To spread the annual feast we’ve made
Fine ducks and drakes of all our cash.
The scene for Carnival is set,
So let the care-free laughter ring
Sans thoughts of landlords, strikes or debt—
A Merry Christmas is the thing!
Who cares for anything but joy
And laughter in the sunshine born?
Father Christmas is a boy
With paper cap and blaring horn;
And arm-in-arm with him we go,
Or follow in his cheerful wake,
With drums a-beat, and horns a-blow,
And sounds that clinking bottles make.
The grand-dad is the kiddy’s pal,
Ready to join his festive yell,
To help the riot of Carnival
Whose magic binds all in its spell;
So while fair Pleasure lends her smile,
Spilling her wine o’er all the earth,
The learned Judge may stray a while
To ride the hobby-horse of mirth.
Blow the tin horn and clink the glass!
The revel’s on, and all may share—
Grey Reverend and laughing lass,
Staid asses with a lordly air,
Judges, and “vags,” old maids and boys,
The ragged beggar and the King:
A truce to all that mars our joys—
A Merry Christmas is the thing!


Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner a
la carte from 1/6. Inclusive tariff, £4/4/- weekly.
Special quotations for sporting bodies, etc. Situated
right opposite Spencer Street Station, no taxi fares;
railway porter carries baggage across if necessary.
Please write for detailed tariff card. Carlyon’s
Hotel, Melbourne, is sufficient address.
"1
sd
Food
Eejd. Trade mark.
The restful food
When digestion and nerves
are deranged, Benger’s Food is
both soothing and satisfying.
A cupful taken at bedtime is
comforting and sleep inducing.
Every case needing digestive help is
a case for Benger’s Food.
Dr.
Write for booklet to; —BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Pisk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Desert Song”
Criterion “Lombardi, Ltd.”
Palace “In the Next Room”
State Movies and Talkies
MELROURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Turned Up”
New Comedy “Murder on the Second Floor”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt's Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
The show of the week in Melbourne was
the presentation of the 100 p.c. talkie “The
Australian Party” by that veteran actor-
manager William Morris Hughes, at the
Town Hall, Prahran. It was for one night
only, but the fact that the “House Full”
notice was up early and there was an over-
flow audience of several thousands at least
indicates a success of curiosity. As a show-
man Mr. Hughes is only equalled by Jan
Rubini, the conductor at the Capitol, the
only difference being that Rubini does get
something resembling music out of his orches-
tra, whereas the ex-Prime Minister only
drew raucous interjections from all parties.
Mr. Hughes is also lacking in versatility.
Practically none of his patter was new, and
his soft-shoe dancing has scarcely advanced
at all since lie appeared in the Conscription
Referendum season of 1017. His corner-
men, Messrs. Marks and Maxwell, M’s.II.R.,
and Senator Duncan, did nothing to lift the
show. On the whole the performance was
disappointing. Some new business will have,
to be introduced if a return season is con-
templated.
* ¥ *
When The Bulletin looked in at Sydney
Opera House last week Alfred Frith was
giving one of the best performances of his
bright career. The piece, a frivolity called
“Money from Home,” supplies a first-class
Frithian role. In it the owner of the most
carplike grin in captivity is a newchum
settler in Canada, trying to grow fruit and
so well up in the game that he believes a
quince is an apple with a bad disposition.
He and a partner try to finance their hungry
venture by faking letters to the rich aunt of
a third partner. They- have managed to
involve him in marriage and other question-
able practices when the aunt suddenly arrives
from England, and Frith is dragooned into
acting as the alleged wife.
The result is a conviction in this Show-
man that Frith has never done better, not
AGATHA KENTISH, new English lead with Alfred- Frith at
Sydney Opera House.
even in the day when he had such support as
Madge Elliott and Cyril Ritchards. He is
funny with scarcely a break from the first
curtain rise. His fit in the last act, a scheme
to put off the aunt, whose questions have
cornered him, is uproarious. It can be
guaranteed to get a laugh out of anybody
who has a laugh to get out. Not only for
that sort of mumming is the show worth a
visit. _ Those who have never seen Frith in
anything but frothy musicomedy might be
surprised at his showing in a play even
though the play be merely farce. Comedy
is, of course, his long suit, but he has other
cards in his hand. He is a jolly good actor.
If he doesn’t nourish the traditional com-
edian’s ambition to play Hamlet, he might
do so less shamefully than most of the
fraternity, including some who do play it.
Heaven forbid that he ever should play it.
A comedian who can put over an old joke
with his air of knowing it is an old one and
put over a new one with liis air of its being
a surprise even to himself is too valuable to
lose that way.
Il'is support here is comparatively better
for its purpose than some he had wished on
to him since his return to Australia. It
includes Agatha Kentish, a charming new
English leading lady, with a fair sense of
comedy and a better of drama ; Tui Black,
the minute Victorian, who is whimsically
funny in spite of a voice sometimes suggestive
of training in the Famous Darlingliurst Con-
servatorium of Razors; Richard Bellairs, who
makes an Irishman that Erin could be
proud of; Miriam Osborne, who does her
little well: Richard Fair, a likeable hero
of the gallery girls; Eva Moss, convincing
as the aunt; George Willouby, a bulky, rather
noisy uncle; and Bernard Beeby, a Cana-
dian country chap, whose appearance sug-
gests that George-street petrol salesmen have
invaded that fair territory. Altogether the
show is rare holiday stuff, which nothing
short of the payment of his life assurance to
his next of kin will prevent this Showman
from inspecting at least once more.
* * *
“Show Boat,” which ended at Sydney
Majesty’s last week, made a fine entertain-
ment from the front. It was every bit as
good, if not more so, from the south side of
the safety curtain, where The Bulletin
went to correct a few impressions.
One of them. A recent redipping into
Leonard Merrick discovereu that cheerful
writer as a Thespian knight-errant scotch-
ing the old idea of inevitable immorality
behind the scenes. But the tradition curi-
ously clings, and some talkies seen lately
rather confirm its existence. This Showman
is too modest to accept as conclusive evidence
the fact that nobody tried to vamp him, and
no doubt one night’s, experience isn’t enough
for a verdict on the delicate question. His
simple impression was that these people, as
decent and bright a bunch as he has en-
countered anywhere, were far too serious
and industrious to even think of such things.
He did overhear a chorus boy in the wings
cry nlaintively to a beauteous girl dressed
chiefly in atmosphere and brown stain,
“Beloved, marry
me! We have the
stage manager’s
permission.” But
as the girl re-
sponded prosaically
and emphatically,
“Go td .the Soap-
works !” or words
to that effect, the
affair didn’t look
exactly promising.
Also, the proposal
more or less syn-
chronised with the
dramatic exclama-
tion of the stage
hero, “Miss Lucy—
will you be mine?”
so it was probably
inspired. Again,
synchronising with
the stage romanti-
cism and the back-
stage flippancy,
came another over-
heard fragment of
conversation: “Yes,
poor thing....
Acute appendicitis
.... She’s been
vomiting.” Not
having a keen relish
for realism and hav-
ing overheard juicier
stuff at Red Cross
meetings The Bul-
letin moved on.
At another point
the talkies seemed
in need of correc-
tion. Lately they
have made a fashion
of behind-scenes ro-
man c e, stressing
ch ie fl y bickering
among artists, jeal-
ousies, striking
scene-shifters and
the dynamic figure
guiding the show
perilously through such and other vicissi-
tudes. As far as the time allowed a judg-
ment, the impression was that, gener-
ally speaking, the talkie idea of behind
scenes in musicomedy is reasonably faith-
ful to the original. The talkies, how-
ever, almost always deal only with first nights,
when nervous tension, never altogether let up,
is stretched about as far as it can go. The
suggestion is that such a condition always
prevails. Instead, the behind-scenes atmo-
sphere of “Show Boat” was calm enough to
make even an elderly auntie feel at home.
There wasn’t a good house to encourage
this, either. It was intrinsic. As for the
“dynamic figure,” barking out bad-
tempered orders, he had become a mild,
bespectacled chap strolling about as if there
was no show going on at all.
Even the prompter’s chair was vacant.
The show ran of its own accord, and the
prompt script lay on a nook table under the
light switches, unopened and dead. The
Red Page might
have learnt some-
thing from the
spectacle perhaps
that all books, in-
cluding those oft-
glorified “chapters
of life,” are only
dead things; that
though imagina-
tion in reading may
bring characters to
a semblance of life-,
it will be only a
semblance; that the
best of book char-
acters are but the
shadows of
shadows. The idea
rises from the fact
that here is a per-
fectly dead heap of
manuscript that
does come to life as
you read it. Lag
behind or get
ahead of the play-
ers, and there is
nothing but dead
words: keep step,
and color, move-
ment, voice, ges-
ture, rustle, laugh-
ter everything
that separates tin-
quick from the
dead is there. It
is a twofold sorl
of life —the charac-
ters as they are on'
stage, where they
discard t h e i r
other selves and
wholly represent
the book; and the
characters off stage,
where they do not
quite succeed in
getting out of character, but at least become
humans enough to crack jokes so poor that
they’d never dare to pereptrate them behind
the footlights. Bentley is on, saying of’ his
dominating wife’s dress, “It looks as if it
was designed by Dorman Long” (makers of
Sydney Harbor bridge). It is a first-class
topical gag, and such audience as there is
roars at it. A pair “off” take no notice.
One lias a goatee beard. The other tickles
it playfully, whereupon the goateed one
replies in the elegant “N-na, hahaha” of
the nannie. It is worthy of vaudeville, but
at least it is human.
But nobody gets altogether out of
character. It is said unkindly of the late
Dion the Younger that he never succeeded
in doing so after having played Mr. Pim.
Here a laddie with a bullfrog voice goes
about the wings making swampish noises to
himself, and another who has just sung a sen-
timental ditty comes off and sings half of it
again. The talkies might be corrected there.
They and writers of behind-stage curiously
overlook the interest the player has in his
job, and his unbounded sincerity. There is
none of the pot-boiler spirit about him. He
means it, every bit of it. No critic ever
sat in a dress-circle half as critically as
this “Show Boat” crowd stood packed in
the wings when on the night The Bulletin
was there an understudy comedian went on
for the first time. Everybody from the lead-
ing lady to the chap who will turn you out
on 24-hours’ notice anything from a grand
piano to a bust of Beethoven wanted to see
how he shaped. If critics could sustain
half the enthusiasm of the player, show
notices would be living literature, though
perhaps there would be more dead critics
than there are at present.
“Show Boat” closed down on Thursday
night, making way for a fortnight’s revival
of “Desert Song,” and The Bulletin came
away convinced that the legit, has many a
hearty leg to shake yet. You can’t kill over-
night anything with that sort of enthusiasm
at the back of it.
* * *
The “pageant” at Adelaide Royal was so
successful that the original week had to be
extended. It is a well-shaken mixture. Nora
Collisson, as author, gets Humanity, Experi-
ence, Goodwill and other abstractions, hand-
somely rendered in flesh and blood, delivering-
propaganda for the League of Nations. Then
Kenneth Duffield, as producer, takes a hand,
and dashes in a bare-legged ballet which has
nothing to do with the show but livens it up
immensely. Then all parties “get back to
the book” —and so the agreeable see-saw
■satisfies everybody.
In a- welter of characters—about 600, and
occasionally too many, though Duffield gets
them on and off the stage wonderfully—the
biggest chances go to Miriam Ralph as
Humanity, Mostyn Skinner as War,' and
Lynton Moore as a Kaiser-like Germany.
Also Phyllis Tier’s delightful elocution is
heard, before the curtain, in.a brief explana-
tion of each scene. A fine show. A pity if
it is not reproduced in the other cities.
HELEN SAINTSBURY, with the Gregan McMahon dramatic
party in Melbourne.
Thanks to the happy inspiration of Frank
Noil, the kids in Melbourne are to have their
panto, after all. Under an arrangement with
the scene-shifters and the scenery at the
King’s, “Clowns in Clover” will be confined
to tlie evening performances, and “Mother
Goose” will occupy the afternoons. The
scheme' of making one theatre serve twm pur-
poses and publics will commence to-morrow
(Thursday). The veteran Bert Ray will
Dame. In Sydney . ditto—“ Babes in the
Wood” in the afternoons at the Opera
House, and Frith at night.
* * *
Melbourne may not be as well off as of
yore in the matter of flesh-and-blood panto.,
but it has plenty of the celluloid variety.
The spectacular “Desert Song,” at the Prin-
cess, comes under this category and so does
“On with the Show” at the Capitol. You
can’t hear the bladder fall on the head of
harlequin at the State, but there is nothing
in “Frozen River,” with the miraculous Rin-
tin-tin performing feats of wonder, to strain
the most immature intelligence. In “Noah's
Ark,” at the Athenaeum, the worthy Warner
Bros, have endeavored to deal solemnly with
what they apparently regarded as a sacred
subject; but what they have produced is
a picture full of unpremeditated humor and
positively paralysing spectacle. In fact, the
whole current spread of film gelatine in Mel-
bourne, with one or two negligible excep-
tions, could be classed as A 1 fare for the
nursery and fitted to be viewed by any
normal infant equipped with a sufficient
supply of peanuts, dixies and Polar pies
to see him through the love passages.
* * #
To-morrow (Thursday) night, barring an
earthquake or other unseasonable occur-
rence, “Turned Up” will arrive at the
Royal, Melbourne, though, without Josie
Melville, who is reported indisposed. Molly
Fisher will fill the gap with her varied
talents, which, range from solo dancing to
duet singing. Molly is a Hobart lassie still
in her teens, but as she started her stage
career in a Williamson panto, as a mem-
ber of a baby ballet, she is almost an old-
timer. Leo Franklyn will be Carraway
Jones, the undertaker, in which part he is
said to have made even coroners weep during
a London production.
V
To-night (Wednesday! Handel's sublime
oratorio, “The Messiah,” will be rendered
as usual by the Melbourne Philharmonics.
The pernicious habit of singing the vener-
able drama at the Exhibition Building has
been abandoned in favor of a Town Hall
presentation.


INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
WHAT DOES SPENDING COST?
How much does it cost you to spend £100? The answer is
£lOO down and at least £4 per annum for the rest of your life.
Yet what man would knowingly spend £lOO that put him
under obligation to pay £4 per year for life.
None, perhaps, but many do it unconsciously when they spend
money that might otherwise have earned interest at 4 per
cent, indefinitely.
Every pound you spend has attached to it an invisible string
of pennies which you spend with it.
Keep your money in a Savings Account and earn, not spend,
4 per cent, interest per annum.
Cbmmonwcaltb Savmas Bank of Hustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
52 M&cleay St
Limited
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT, SYDNEY
(Located within the City Boundary, ten
minutes from G.P.0 .)
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 160 rooms, is now open, and
features Single Rooms, Double
Rooms with Bath, and two-, three-
and four-room Suites with Bath.
Central Heating, Hot and Cold
Water, ’Phone and Bedside Lamp
in each room. Unsurpassed
Harbor views.
Telephone: F 2161 (8 lines).
Telegraphic Address: “Fifmac,”
Sydney.
A BORIGIN
ALITIES
“Cochon” : I asked an old stockman what
I ought to do with a kelpie that had started
to kill sheep but which otherwise was a
good worker. “Shoot him,” he said. “You
1 KINGS VI, 7.
MANAGER (local preacher): “This stope do ’mind me av the buildin' of Solomon's
temple.”
MINER: “ ’Ow’s that, Cap'n?”
MANAGER: “I’ll tell ’ee. Come down ’ere when I will, I do never ’ear the sound of
a ’ammer.”
can’t break them once they starts. The best
dog I ever had was a cross between a sheep
slut and a heeler, but it took ter killin’. I
put the boot in and then the whip, but it
was no good, so I ties it up in the yard
gate and drives a mob of wethers over it,
but it was killin’ again before the bruises
had healed. Then I got him in a pen and
ties him up to an old ram with about a
yard of rope between them. When I left
them for the night that ram was gorin’ him
like a Hereford bull. I gits up early the
next mornm’ an’ went down to let ’em go
and patch up the dog, but the dog wassleepm
at one end of the rope, an’ all that was
left at the other was two horns, a pile o’
bones and a hide. Shootin’ ’em’s the only
way.”
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: Bondi’s dog boozer,
Peter, who has a legitimate owner but is
everybody’s pal, is being
given reformatory treat-
ment. Like many drunks,
he has a sharp natural
intelligence, but drink has
been his ruin. H’e has
been in the habit of fre-
quenting the saloon bars
of the beach hotels,
going home with a stag-
ger every night, but a
collar and chain are now
keeping him off the
liquor. It is not the
only case where an
animal has acquired the
taste for alcohol. Syd-
ney’s most persistent
animal drunk was a goat
that had a regular job
on the Darling Harbor
waterfront acting as de-
coy to lead sheep off
or on the boats. When
not on duty Billy
butted his way into the
waterside pubberies, chose
his mark and, planting
his forefeet on the bar,
nudged with his shoulders
the patron he had chosen.
It was not healthy to ig-
nore the hint. Retiring
quietly but with a wicked
gleam in his eye, Bill
would wheel suddenly and
charge; and he was a
massive goat whose but-
tings were something to remember.
* 4s s|s *
“Pomegranate”: All sorts of human sur-
prises are still to be found rusticating in
Australia, though the old type of remit-
tance man is passing. In far-out Riverina
there is a map-name represented by a
stock-route pub, a few station fence-lines
and an Anglican church building erected by
a local squatter. Services, taken by a visit-
ing parson from 50 miles away, were dis-
trict events and attracted good attendances.
One Sunday there was at the pub an Eng-
lish unknown busy liquidating a big cheque,
and he decided, despite the dissuasion of
friends, to attend church. Services at the
wayside bethel were dull, musicless affairs,
but not the day De Vere attended. He
insisted on singing responses, and, as he
knew them all and their proper tunes, and
proved to own a beautifully mellow voice,
none could say him nay. He went further:
he sang the canticles, psalms and general
prayers, all to appropriate “services.” It
was a solo performance, and the rector’s
NO RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE FRONT HALF.
SMITHY: “Two shoes on his back feet, Jacky? What about the front ones?”
JACKY: “No fear! Horse’s own plurry fault if he don’t look where he puts his front
feet"
hair was on end before all was over, but
the half-sozzled musician saw it through.
Then, escaping the clamor of the astonished
congregation, he went back to the pub to
finish his jag.
* * * *
“0.W.W.”: “I never enjoy te Crissmus,”
Timi growled. “Orra te Maori frien’s come,
an’ te wahine make te putten too rich an’
onry use one egg an’ no currants.” “How
could a pudding like that be too rich?” I
asked. “Oh, he rich, orrite,” Timi replied.
“Te missus put nine pobs in him, an’ te
proomin’ frien’s pite ’em out.”
* * * *
“Gouger”: A pal of mine has solved in
his own way the problem of living happily
and free from care. He is reaping the
reward of long study. For years he collected
reports of ambergris finds on the M.L.
coast. Then he consulted maps, especially
those dealing with ocean currents. He de-
duced from these researches that parts of
the Australian coast must also periodically
accumulate ambergris. Once he had selected
his beach and set up his tent his success
was almost immediate. He finds, as a rule,
only tiny fragments of the precious sub-
stance, but its value is so high, particularly
if it has been sand-buried for years, that his
income is well in excess of his modest
requirements.
* * * *
“Shock”: When I was delving into
dynamics in a Maoriland uni. a student
suggested to our learned prof, that there
must be a dickens of a lot of electro-motive
force wasted in a lightning display, “Not
at all,” snapped the great man. “High
pressure voltage, but probably not enough
amperage to run a sewing-machine.” I
took his word for it till the other day, when
I saw a tree blasted by a purple cloud-spark.
There was a flash that was as bright as a
thousand suns concentrated into one, a bang
that sounded like a city falling over. The
ground shook; the tree —a big blue-gum—
shook like a rat in the grip of a terrier.
Bark and branches were wrenched loose by
the vibration before the trunk split—a gash
30 feet long through six feet of green
eucalypt. Looks to me as though the energy
spent in that wallop would run a machine
for sewing boiler-plate.
$ * * *
“K. 0.”: This is the story as it’s told
on Henley Beach (S.A.). On a recent
Saturday five schoolboys were having a
dip in the Gulf, and one of their num-
ber, Jerry Mander, about 12, went out into
deep water. Suddenly his companions were
startled to hear bloodcurdling yells, and
saw he was being chased by an enormous
fish, which suddenly opened a cavernous
mouth and swallowed him. The monster,
which looked something like a whale, then
leisurely swam out to sea with its human
titbit. The whole town was filled with
sympathy for the bereaved parents, as Jerry
was a general favorite. But, to the astonish-
ment and joy of his family, Jerry marched
home on the following Monday morning,
apparently none the worse for his experi-
ences. He declared that he felt himself
being swiftly drawn by intense air suction
into the inner compartments of his captor,
and discovered he was in a cavity about
12ft. by 4ft., and high enough to enable
him to walk around and examine his sur-
roundings at his leisure. A bright phos-
phorescent glow lit up the interior of his
host, and, to his delight, he discovered the
creature was an air breather, and at least
every hour went aloft to replenish its air
supply. On the Sunday afternoon he was
rambling round experimenting with things
in general, and found that when he rubbed
one of the big internal glands adjoining the
neck the fish made a strange chuckling
noise as though he highly appreciated the
performance. Further experiments proved
that by briskly rubbing another gland a
nausea was set up, and Jerry narrowly
escaped being ejected into the deep sea, but
managed to- retain his position of safety.
On the Monday morning, to his intense joy,
when the big fish rose for an intake of air,
Jerry saw through its mouth that he was
close to the shore at Henley Beach again,
and at once vigorously massaged the nausea
gland and was shot out, unharmed. He
quickly swam ashore.
* * * *
“T.P.”: For initiative and pluck the
Taskis youngsters of Mullengandra, near
Albury (N.S.W.), are good Bush samples.
Ten-year-old Ronnie, exploring a rabbit hole,
was bitten on the finger by a snake. His
brothers, 13 and 11, used their boot laces
as ligatures, one being bound tightly above
the elbow. They had no knife, so scarified
the bite with sword-grass. Their lips were
sore, therefore they caught leeches to suck
out the venom. Then they took the patient
home and he’s now quite recovered.
* * * *
“Sandy”: Here’s a century-old mystery
that still • eludes explanation. A par. in
the Hobart Town Gazette of September
2, 1826, tells of the discovery of a copper
coin, ploughed up. It had the appearance
of great antiquity, and the die or stamp
which impressed it must have been very
deeply engraved, the figures being in high
relief. The obverse bore a crowned head
which had no resemblance to, any historical
person. There were on the side four or
five letters or characters which could not
be deciphered. The reverse was a naked
figure, which might have been an abo. in' the
act of throwing a spear. Does any reader
know what became of the coin?
(Continued on next page.)
A PARTHIAN SHOT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A battered billy in his hand, he shuffled to
the bar;
A coat of dust upon the lid showed he had
travelled far.
A terrier, with one eye gone, sat down beside
his swag—-
A blanket and a piece of twine, an empty
flourbag.
“An ’arf a can o’ draught ale, mate. By
cripes, the sun is crool!
Aw, draw a couple off it, mate; I likes me
licker cool.
To-day I’ve tramped from Murphy’s tank
through ’ells of ’eat an’ dust.
I’m doin’ it for exercise an’ not because I
must.”
The barman looked him up and down. “I
wanter see yer sprat.”
He turned his pockets inside out and peered
inside his hat.
“I muster dropped it down the road —jest
put it on the slate,
An’ if I don’t come back this way I’ll post
it to you, mate.”
“No cash, no beer,” the barman cried. “An’
there’s the flaming door !”
The traveller picked up his swag. “I’ve met
your kind before.”
And then he spoke to his old dog, “Now, ain’t
’is temper sweet!
I wunner if it is ’is wife, ’is liver or the
’eat.” |
The terrier cocked a war-wrecked ear. “’E
don’t know wot we know.
’E ain’t picked up the truth o’ things by
wanderin’ to an’ fro.
Ole mong, if ’e ’ad any brains at all beneath
’is ’at,
’E wouldn’t lose a customer —jest for a
blinkin’ sprat!”
VICTORIA.
P. T. F.


RUPTURE;
lUFFERERS /
Know security of body and peace
of mind by wearing Denyer’s
Elastic Truss —the truss with the
patent water pad. You’ve never
known such comfort, freedom and
effective support as is provided
by this dependable appliance.
Trusses also made specially to order
for individual .requirements.
Write for Free Pamphlet.
Single 30/- Double 40/-
DEN Y E R BROS.,
Dept. 1, 267 George Street,
Sydney.
SILVER
i CAPi
:y
0
A
O
%.
m
(Paton)
8k
In the
Squai'e
Glass
Bottle with
GREEN LABEL
Equallm famous au'e BOLS Vei'U Old
HOLLAND GIN ir\ tke stor\e Bottle.
a,r\d BOLS supe.'f.r\e LIQUEURS • •
Pack Up
Your Troubles!
We offer you our greetings. We hope
happiness will abound during the festive
season and goodwill, good health and
prosperity will be experienced during the
coming year.
Winchcombe, Carson Ltd.
Sydney, Brisbane, Longreach,
Hughenden, Charleville, Dalby.
“Yarrabah”: The contributor who pro-
fessed to note a resemblance between the
odors coming from a dead human and that
given, forth by narcissus was misled by an
association, of ideas. Flowers which exude
cyanogen, like narcissus, tuberose and mag-
nolia, are used mainly in mortuary chapels
and for altar decorations, and their scent
naturally suggests funerals. The effluvium
of a human carcase is very different. The
nearest vegetable smell is given off by the
cascara bean. A recent invasion of cock-
roaches into my hut induced me to scatter
these beans about the place. A succession of
vivid nightmares wherein corpses figured
prominently was followed by a persistent
stench from the beans, which was very like
the real thing. Sickly it was, but sweet —
no!
* * # *
“Meteren”: In addition to fossils, New
Guinea folk-lore supports the theory that
the place harbored gigantic snakes in by-
A LESSON IN PHYSIOLOGY.
FIRST STUDENT OF NATURE: “Just been readin' about a man’s body, ’Orace—wotter
wunnerful piece of machinery it is?”
SECOND DITTO: “Wonderful, my oath! Look at old Willing there. You’ve Only got
to pat ’im on the back and ’is ’ead swells.”
a t. • * j-i-
gone days. It is a .tradition that the huge
snakes consorted with the native women,
luring them into the bush, and maintaining
and protecting their individual harems
against all intruders. As a sequel snake-child-
ren intermarried with the natives, and were
always held in high esteem by their spouses,
under threats that interruptions in married
bliss would give pa-in-law an excuse to scoff
up every living relative the offender pos-
sessed.
* * * *
“Dubug”: The fire-w T alkers of Fiji were
always a source of awed wonder to me
until one morning I w'as in a smithy trying
to sell bar-iron to a Maoriland village black-
smith. An outsize in Maori gentlemen
strolled in for a chat.
He was unkempt, ex-
tremely cheerful and
barefooted. The smith
had just cut a rough end
off the heated bar which
he was working, and
the black hot fragment
had fallen into the dust.
Hori stepped on it un-
consciously, and stood
to offer his comments
on the weather. Pre-
sently there arose the
odor of a newly-fitted
horseshoe, and we all
sniffed in loud surprise,
for there were no
horses in the place at
the time. ‘‘Py korry,”
exclaimed Hori, grin-
ning at the smith,
“somebody start te
opposition, eh?” Then
he let out a yell which
rattled the rafters, and
hopped about on one
foot with surprising
energy until we cap-
tured him and the
smith removed the hot
fragment of iron from
his foot with a spike.
It had burned a hole
fully half an inch deep
before Hori had felt it. To round off this
par. I- ought to say that Hori shuffled off
laughing; but as a matter of fact he was
a cripple for months afterwards.
* * * *
“Up North”: No man has yet been
lynched on Australian diggings, but there
have been some narrow escapes. Chapel, the
discoverer of Kanowna, actually had the
noose around his neck. The disappointed
prospectors were. hustling him to a handy
tree when Commissioner Cloote and a police
posse took a hand. The diggers complained
that Chapel had brought thousands of them
there under false pretences. The Commis-
sioner, who was a bit of a geologist and had
an eye for the lay of the land, told them
to dig- where they stood, and by good luck,
though Kanowna was about the duddest
field that ever attracted a rush, the first
dish yielded t?oz. of gold, and Chapel needed
no more protection. Old Billy Webb, Cook-
town veteran, also had a narrow escape from
the rope. Finder of one of the Starcke fields
he and his mate had to ride for their lives
to escape a mob furious because they could
not dig up gold by the bucketful.
„ _ . ~
. Oaractacus : Petrol-power is steadily
invading the outback districts, but places
remain where primitive energy is still
utilised. One of its queerest forms I saw
demonstrated on a Riverina share-farm. The
cocky had as part of his plant one of those
escalator-pattern treadmills worked by an
ever-tramping horse. To this implements
were geared. The farm bull was giving
trouble; fences would not hold him and
neighbors were complaining. So the idea
came to cocky to use the bull’s energy in
THE OLD AND THE NEW.
“Say, Grandad, step on the gas!”
the treadmill. It took about 12 men’s
strength and profanity each morning to
get the beast into the frame, but once there, he
was the finest one-bull power plmit the farm
had ever seen ; the more he bucked and reared
the more power he generated, and he couldn’t
run down. For several seasons afterwards
he did all such jobs as winnowing, chaff-cut-
ting and working a hoist.
* * * :|:
“Avon”: The use of spurs on a horse has
been declared illegal by a Maoriland magis-
trate.. The case was one in which the
proprietor of an alleged buckjumping show
was charged with using the goads on one
of the peaceful old prads he described as
“outlaws of the world.” A police warning
proving ineffective a spectator confiscated
the spurs, and got into a brawl from which
a constable had to rescue him. The defence
was that the horse enjoyed such gentle
attentions, but the beak thought otherwise
and imposed a fine of £3.
* * * *
“Murkah” : Out in the Pacific, about 400
miles n.e. from Townsville (Q.), is a flat-
topped heap of sand—Willis Island. It
beats sea-level by 20 inches or so, and in
area about equals a city block. Thereabouts
cyclones are prepared for the Australian
market, and a meteorological and radio warn-
ing-station has been planted there. In the
quiet season the weather-man and one radio-
operator constitute the cyclone staff of the
Commonwealth; from Miay to November,
when more disreputable weather is likely, a
second operator joins the strength. Though
the islet is protected by a reef, there is a
chance that it may be overwhelmed by heavy
seas. Therefore emergency quarters and
rations have been provided downstairs. The
gear, including the aerial, is constructed so
that it can be shoved underground in a
hurry.
*
“Pick”: The boomerang in the first
instance probably was copied by some ancient
abo. armorer who had observed one of the
methods by which Nature distributes seeds.
In the jungles of Mt. Dromedary (N.S.W.
South Coast) grows a spiky-leaved, strag-
gling shrub with a hard, woody seed-pod like
a Brazilian nut. On dry, warm days these
pods burst with reports like pistol shots.
The seed within, attached to an elongated
flake with an end sweep like the blade of
a propeller, is ejected with violence by the
explosion. It sails away spirally and spin-
ning, and, if there is no wind, making a com-
plete turn to the direction from whence it
came. In a wind it journeys for miles,
its every evolution aloft resembling exactly
the flight of a well-made and well-thrown
boomerang.
* * * *
“Pierre”: What’s become of “Bareheaded
Allan,” that strange old man who went
through life bareheaded and bootless? His
hair was thick and matted. He stood well
over six feet, and was proportionately broad.
A great pigeon shot, he went to M.L. to shoot
in the tourneys there. A policeman, reckoning
he was mad, deposited him in gaol, where
Allan languished until a friend provided
bail. When the King, then Duke of York,
visited Sydney, Allan drove 500 turkeys into
the city from the Western Districts, and
got £2 a piece for them. He said that they
were the easiest things in the world to
drove. When I last saw him he was schem-
ing how to win a prize offered by the M.L.
Government to anyone who could acclimatise
swallows.
-!• '!• -5*
“67” : A native named Kara, from the little
village of Bola, on the north coast of New
Britain, has been nearer to death than most
mortals have lived to boast. He wounded a
fish with his spear and dived into the water
head first—right into the jaws of an alli-
gator, which closed its jaws and started for
home. Bara by a superhuman effort prised
the creature’s jaws open with his hands and
scrambled ashore, where he promptly col-
lapsed. He was badly mauled, but the
A.M.O. at Garua hospital soon had him all
right again.
H*
“Sucker”: Isn’t there any possibility of
commercialising some of the native fig-trees
of the Queensland coast? The stuff that
exudes from them seems to be rubber. It
will roll nice balls, bounce and preserve its,
shape, and youngsters chew it till the cow
come home. The trees grow quickly, stand
GIVIN’ 'ISSELF A BAD NAME.
THE CHAPLAIN: “God is with me always!”
THE PRISONER: “What, Guvnor, don’t ’E
trust you?”
drought and relish the wet. Periodical and
regular milking might stunt them a bit biu
i t .ft alone they grow to stupendous sizes,
There is one on Hazelwood Island whicli
j s claimed to cover a third of an acre with
foliage.
ISLE O’ DOOM.
(Macquarie Island, 50deg. s. lat.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In fifty south, where seas break high
’Neath freezing blasts and lead-grey sky,
Whilst driving on through ice and gloom
Unwitting towards the Isle o’ Doom,
Many a high-pooped ship, I ween,
Or clipper smart or barquentine,
Has crashed and ground through reef and
rock
To take a berth in Neptune’s dock.
So here are met the spirits stout
Who braved the mighty “south-about,”
Who scorned the gods’ unfettered rage,
And won the hearts of every age;
Whose chanteys rang in Sydney Cove
As merrily the capstan hove;
Who played ashore and toiled at sea
When rum was black and life was free.
Where mighty rocks o’erhang their base,
With rugged though unbroken face,
And swirling tides confuse the deep,
’Tis here their restless spirits sleep.
But should the tempest cease to rage
(Which happens once in every age),
A bos’n, trident staff in hand,
To muster pipes the sleeping band.
At once from out the ooze and slime
All masters, mates and shellbacks climb
To tell, aboard a phantom ship,
Of saucy glance or speedy trip ;
Of Argyle Kate who ruled the Bocks,
Or Sarah Fish, of Plymouth Docks.
From rail to rail there spreads content,
Each man is in his element.
While cabin boys still blink and gape
O’er some tall deed or slick escape,
A stiff sou’-wester starts to blow,
And Triton pipes “All hands below.”
Then skippers, mates and motley crew
Unsteadily descend from view,
While high above the breakers boom,
And crash against the Isle o’ Doom.
N.s.w.
FRED AARONS.


Endurance
BRITAIN'S PRIDE—HER NAVY
To the foresight of her earliest statesmen Britain
owes the foundation of her navy—to the brains,
inventive skill and engineering ingenuity of today
Britain owes her Sea Supremacy —won in a thous-
and battles by the Endurance of her men and guns.
8
tec
U
m
rA
m
7a
A
y
t
V
w/A
0
X
/
1
I
mu
///^
//■A
Uhl
V
m.
i)
r/
a
v;
I
//
//
iJ
/ 7
I
m
m
m
\ x
h
Barnet Glass
Tyres
J B.G. 12M2&
lor endurance


PRIZES FOR FARMERS.
The three Prizes, of £25, £10 and £5, for the most helpful
contributions to the Land Page during the six months to the
end of December will be awarded early in January.
Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
Good Quality Wools
are Firm
Faulty Sorts Decline
EVERY Wool Sale bears this out. It is an undoubted fact
that it is most difficult to keep wool in an attractive
condition even under the best pastoral conditions.
VITA-LICK under all pastoral conditions helps to grow more
wool and make it more attractive.
USE VITA-LICK CONSTANTLY
VI
TA-LICK LIMITED
Stock Lick Specialists
107. KENT STREET, SYDNEY
PEAPES
clothe men AND their sons.
PEAPES extend to all
their clients their heartiest
good wishes for all joy at
Christmas-time and good
fortune in the New Year.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney o
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CRPARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
POPULAR WHEAT VARIETIES.
“Yeoman”: According to a bulletin just
issued by the S. Australian Government
Statist, the four most popular wheats grown
for the 1928-29 harvest were Gluyas, 16.46
p.c. of the total wheat crop; Federation,
10.42 p.c.; Late Gluyas, 8.78 p.c.; and
Currawa, 8.62 p.c. Yet these four varieties
constituted only 44.28 p.c. of the total area
sown last year. The other 55.72 p.c. was
split up between 20 or more varieties—far
too many. Of these others Ford, Nabawa,
Major, Free Ga-llipoli, Sepoy, Daphne, Sul-
tan and Yandilla King are the most promi-
nent.
Of the newer varieties, Nabawa (bred in
Westralia) is the most sought after for seed.
It has done well in the crop competitions,
and as it is free from flag smut, a fungoid
which cannot be attacked by ordinary pick-
ling, it is bound to rank among the first
three within a season or two in S.x\. Ford
is deservedly popular in some districts. The
writer, however, has had better results from
Currawa than any other variety, and was
not surprised to hear the Assistant-Director
of Agriculture express the opinion that, par-
ticularly on limestone ground, Currawa is
the best wheat introduced ,into S.A. since
Federation. Gluyas, in spite, of its tendency
to go down, holds pride of place because
of its consistency as a yielder. It is early
and rustproof.
The best advice that one can proffer fellow-
farmers is to study the cultural practices
of the winners of the crop competitions in
their respective districts, and to buy seed
of the winning crops, selecting the varieties
likely to suit one’s own conditions best.
SAVING, SUB.-CLOVER SEED.
“ J.S.”: “Brady’s Lookout” wants a method
of separating burr from sub.-clover seed.
It is usually done here (W.A.) by rubbing
handfuls of bone-dry clover on a sieve made
of fine-mesh (about fin.) wire-netting nailed
to a frame, and standing on legs about 4ft.
high. It is used in the paddock, the clover being
raked in heaps for convenience. Set the sieve
so that the wind blows under it crosswise.
The wind does a certain amount of winnow-
ing, and ordinarily gives a sample about half
leaf and half burr. That is regarded as
good enough for sowing. When all burr
appears to have been rubbed through from
a handful of clover, throw the remaining
straw away; don’t try to rub it all through.
A tightly-strained wire-mattress is far
superior to netting, as netting develops a
sag and is hard on the points of the fingers,
while the former springs under the hand.
The peculiar corrugations of the mattress
cut the burr off better, too.
However, this method is disgustingly, slow
and primitive, so I am going to experiment
on a machine this season. The machine
will resemble a huge grindstone turning in
a water-trough—most farmers will know
what that is. The “grindstone” will be a
disc from a log about 3ft. in diameter and
lft. thick, with fine netting or blunt spikes
on the rim (the heads of shoeing nails may
do). The “trough” will be semi-circular,
and the bottom thereof will be of netting.
The bottom of the “trough” and the face
or rim of the “grindstone” will be about
Jin. or lin. apart, except at the feed side,
which will gradually open to several inches
to allow clover to be passed in under the
“grindstone.” Straw after passing through
should fall away from the “grindstone.” One
man will turn the handle, as on a grind-
stone, and another will feed. If this is suc-
cessful, I propose to gear a rough fan to
the machine to blow under the trough, and
winnow the stuff as it is rubbed through;
or, perhaps, I will use a blacksmith’s bel-
lows. Such a machine would be a boon,
and I will be pleased to submit the results
of my experiments if anyone is interested.
POISONOUS PLANTS.
“Hortus”: Near Gympie the other day
three valuable Jerseys, two of them regis-
tered in the herd-book, died rather suddenly.
On analysing the stomach-contents of one of
the animals, the Government Botanist found
that death was due to poison contained in
a native species of passion-vine, Herbcrtiana.
Both leaves and fruit of this plant contain
prussic acid, yielding ai glucosid, and if
eaten in quantity it would act on stock in
much the same way as young sorghum, blue
couch, rosewood and variegated thistle.
The suddenness of death generally points
to prussic acid.
Prevention is, of course, best, but where
animals are allowed to roam about the bush
it is very difficult to prevent. Knowledge
of facts may help.
The poison is only present (a) during
early growth, (b) when growth has been
stunted after a dry spell or poor season,
(c) in the second shoot after cutting or
feeding-off. The acid forms in the stalk of
the plant, and- after the stalk has been cut the
poison disappears. The course open to
farmers, then, is to find out from the Govern-
ment Botanist what plants come under the
category. This done, cut out all such plants
on your farms if in small quantity, and
prevent stock from straying on places where
growth is thick. Keep valuable stock under
special supervision. This refers to poisonous
weeds. In the case of sorghums, which arc
such handy and hardy crops that it would
be a great pity to leave them out of the
year’s operations, never allow stock to tat
young standing plants. If these are the
only source of green-feed available, cut the
plants, and leave them in the paddock for a
while before feeding. Do not feed animals
on wilted or stunted plants, or those cut
by frost. Do not allow stock to roam _in
paddocks where second growth is appearing
on old stalks. Remember that as long as
the plant is cut and left awhile there will
be no poison present, so that at any stage
these sorghums may be utilised for silage.
When the plants commence to seed, the mat-
ter of poisoning can be forgotten altogether.
THE PROFITABLE SWEET POTATO.
“Patate” : From now to about the middle
of January is the best time to get this crop
under way. On an average, four months is
the time from planting to maturity, and
they suit a variety of soils. The ground
wants to be loose and well worked. The
deeper you can till the better; give it a
good cultivation before planting and work
the manure in. Tests favor equal parts of
bonedust and super., from 2cwt. to 6cwt. per
acre, according to soil nature. Sulphate of
ammonia and sulphate of potash may also
be used in conjunction with super, at the
rate of one part to six of super. The area
to be sown is all the better for the ploughing
in of a green crop to aid aeration and humus
content. Farmyard manure is excellent, too.
For planting, sow tubers in a prepared
seed-bed; when the green shoots come, cut
them off and root them in sand or fine soil
for sowing into the paddocks. The cuttings
root very easily; or the trade will supply
rooted cuttings at about 6s. to 7s. a hun-
dred. The planting out is best done on
small ridges from 2ft. Bin. to 4ft. apart.
The wider drills give the best chance of culti-
vating. Many kinds run to too much green-
top ; trim back with a sharp spade.
In digging the crop take great care not
to pierce the tubers. For market an even-
sized potato is preferable, but for home use
or for pigs and cattle there is no limit to
size. Amongst the most popular kinds are
Georgia, Director, Yellow Strassburg and
White Yam.
SOME HINTS ON SWARMING.
“Apis”: Swarming is an ever-present
problem with the bee-keeper, and every
swarm that .comes out during the season
diminishes the honey crop. If thel apiary
is small, destroy the queen cells as fast as
they develop, for the bees will not swarm
if there is a possibility of the parent colony
being left queenless. But queen cells are
produced so rapidly that to adopt this
method means that once every eight days
during the entire honey flow the apiarist
must open his hive and examine every frame.
If there are only a few this works well
enough, but in large apiaries it is out of
the question.
Swarming may be prevented ip some
degree by increasing the size of the hive,
adding more bodies and supers, and by
removing the queen excluder, so that tlie
queen has plenty of room. The entrance shoma
also be enlarged to give better ventilation.
This may be done by placing a wooden
block under each corner of the hive body,
so that the whole is raised up from tne
bottom board, affording large entrances on
all four sides. Another way of preventing
congestion, which leads to swarming, is to
take some of the combs of brood from the
hive, replacing them with empty comb or
brood foundation. There is not much advan-
tage in having a great quantity ot brood
towards the latter part of the season. I here
are also many anti-swarming mechanical
devices on the market.
Whatever the bee-keeper may do, however,
a certain amount of swarming must take
place, and the • bee-keeper is put to a great
deal of trouble, even during si normal swarm,
when the event takes place- in some difficult
Xiosition, such as a high limb of a tree.
The best plan, is to clip the wings ot every
queen. Take out the frames until you find
the queen. If she gives you the opportunity,
clip her wing with one snip of a small pair
of scissors. Both wings are best cut, leav-
ing the stumps about Jin. long. It the
queen will not stay long enough to give you
the chance, pick her up and hold her between
the fingers while you clip. Be careful,
because it is very easy to injure a laying
queen. Once the clipping is done you won t
have to do any climbing. All you need do
is to look for the clipped queen on the ground
in front of the hive, pick her up and put
her in a cage. When the swarming bees
find out that her Majesty is not with them,
they will return to the old stand, where
by that time you should have got busy and
fixed up a new hive for them. The bees go
into the hive and you release the clipped
queen and allow her to go in with them.
Another point in favor, of clipping queens is
that you can always tell a new queen from
an old one, which is important. The novice
should try snipping some drones first, so
that he won’t make a botch of the real
J Many apiarists use the queen trap. This
is an apparatus which lets the workers have
free passage in and out of the hive, but
prevents the queens and drones from leaving.
There is a danger of these traps becoming
blocked by drones, but the idea is sound
enough, and it renders unnecessary the clip-
ping of queens. On account of the blocking,
however, lots of bee-keepers will not use
traps.
THE HANDY WIRE STRAINER.
“Pekoe”: The wire strainer commonly
used can do many other jobs. A farmer at
Greenridge, Richmond River (N.S.W.), used
his to hoist a slaughtered beast off the ground.
He threw a fence-wire over a strong branch
of a tree, made it fast to the beast, then
hauled on the other end with his strainer.
Another farmer frequently hauls motor-cars
out of the bog in the main road with his
strainer. It is a splendid tool to carry on
a car for that purpose. Another uses it
to give the final pull on a partially grubbed
tree. Its effectiveness for these purposes
was much increased by the use of a pulley-
block of good diameter.
Some strainers have hardened jaws to
grip the wire. These wear more rapidly
on a hard wire than on a soft, so, when
straining hard-wire fences, carry a few
yards of - soft wire to fasten on to the
hard stuff, and thus save the wear on the
strainer jaws. When these jaws wear they
can be reversed in some makes, and the
unworn side brought into action.
To speed up straining, a short length of
wire with about a foot of trace-chain
and a stout hook attached will be found
useful. This can be quickly fastened around
the strainer post, and will save hours of
time tying' knots and cutting them off again.
A COOL BUSH SAFE.
“Ino” : To make a cool safe for less than 55.,
get two kerosene cases and put them one on
the other, side to side. Nail to keep them
straight. Get four 3x2 battens about
4ft. long. Nail them, one on each corner,
to the ends of the cases. These are the
legs. The lids of the cases with two pieces
of light board will make the door. Leather
will do for hinges, and a short piece of strap
tacked to the door, with a loop in to hook
on a screw in the end of the case, will keep
it closed. Cut the side out of a petrol-tin
and put this on top. Four chaff bags com-
plete the safe. Hang one on each end, one
at back and one in front. Let the ends be
well in the tin and hang about a foot below
the bottom of the safe. Put in a few stones
to hold the bags in place. Pill the tin with
water, and so long as the water does not
overflow no drip will reach the floor. Stand
free from draught, and don't put in any
ventilators—they are no good.
HOW TO GET THAT DOG!
“Sucker”: There is no 'certain means of
poisoning a dingo (B. 9/10/’29). A settler
in the Jingeras got 15 in one night by bleed-
ing a horse or a cow; that is merely an indi-
cation that dingoes are so thick there a man
doesn’t need a bait —he can shut his eyes,
swing a stick and collect the slain. He
could even catch ’em there with a politician’s
promise. If a man’s after a bad dog, there’s
only one way to stand a chance of getting
him: follow Billy I lughes’s example and
have frequent changes of policy. Any one
lure goes stale in one night. The same thing
applies to baits. As a rule, boiled fat with
strychnine is miles ahead of dripped blood
and ditto. The blood soaks into the ground
and is gone. The fat stays on a log oij on
a rock for weeks. The older it is the better
it is, and few dogs resist having a lick at it
in passing. There are no fixed rules for trap-
ping, either. I’ve known a bad dog to be
trapped, and the lure used was man-smell —a
deterrent ninety-nine times out of a hundred.
But this fellow was so cocky, presumably,
that he went to have his little joke. He had
it. But lie didn’t have the last laugh. Mug
dingoes are easy to catch—a man can’t help
getting ’em. But when a cunning joker’s
encountered, then a game of chess is a one-
two-three proposition compared with the
intricacies of the attack and lure.
WORMS IN SHEEP.
“Curlew”: Tetracliloretliylene is effective
in the treatment of stomach-worms as well
as some other internal parasites of sheep.
Some veterinarians, however, still strongly
favor one per cent, solution of copper
sulphate (bluestone) or one per cent, solu-
tion of copper sulphate with nicotine. When
only stomach-worms are troublesome use
copper sulphate every two or three weeks ;
when stomach and other round worms are
troublesome, use tetrachlorethylene every
two or three weeks ; for stomach and tape-
worms, copper sulphate every two or three
weeks with copper sulphate and nicotine sub-
stituted every three months; where all the
above classes of worms are present, tetra-
chlorethylene every three weeks, with copper
sulphate and nicotine substituted every three
months.
THE BRANDING FRAME.
“Muscles”: “Wrash” (B. 30/10/’29). is
wrong when he says that only branding
should be done on a calf in a branding
frame. A small lot of 300 has just been put
through the frame here; they were ear-
marked, inoculated for blackleg, branded,
numbered and castrated where necessary.
Had “Wrash” been there he could have
cleaned their teeth and combed their tails
and not raised a sweat.
That calves can be man-handled I don’t
dispute—l’ve done it myself—but experience
proves that there are more comfortable-
ways of working breeders’ calves, and for
this the branding frame is on its own.
TELLING THE AGE OF A COW.
“F.S.A.” : The age of a cow can be told
fairly accurately up to about 5 or 6 years
by the rings on her horns. Each ring cor-
responds with the birth of a calf each year.
The first calf generally makes its appearance
when the cow is about 2i to 3 years old.
After that there is an additional ring every
year until there are four.. Thus a cow with
three rings on each horn is approximately
5 years old. The fourth ring denotes 6
years. After that the teeth provide the
best means for telling the age, because at
6 or 7 years the incisors usually show signs
of beginning to wear. Some cows, how-
ever, retain sound teeth up to 10 or 12
years of age. Dentition development and
wear are influenced largely by soil, herbage,
handfeeding and climate. But when all that
is admitted the fact remains that a cow is,
potentially, as old as her teeth.
COMMON ILLS OF THE HORSE.
“Mimosa” : My cure for greasy heel. Clip
the hair. After washing and thoroughly
drying, wash again with warm water and
soft-soap. Dry thoroughly. If the heel
is raw and very “wet,” apply an ointment
made of boracic acid 20z., iodoform |oz.,
Stockholm tar one tablespoon and lard
(unsalted) 2oz. Apply evenly. Fill hollow
from fetlock to hoof with a pad- of tow
or cotton-wool. Bandage from- hoof to
above fetlock to prevent the heel being used
too much. When almost dry apply dry boracic
acid. If the thing is very smellful, use for
a couple of days a dusting of calomel. The
latter is the remedy also for thrush. Also
for grass-seed in the horse’s eye, or for a
(Continued on page 25.)


Special after-
season Offer!
TIES
3/4
USUALLY 4/6
mm
Remaining stocks 4/6 Broad-
end Ties left over from orr
Christmas trading now offered
for quick clearance at a special-
ly reduced price! Excellent
variety innumerable designs
and colour combinations to
select from. Usual ... 4/6.
Special, each ' 3/4.
Exclusive Men’s Shops,
New Store & George St.
DAVID JONES’
GOING HOME?
—then make a note of
HENLYS’ “BUY-BACK” PLAN
You want to motor when in England. Right!
Henlys will sell you a car, and, at the same time,
guarantee to buy this car back at a pre-determined
price when you leave. The difference between the
price you pay for the car and the price at which
HENLYS will buy it back, is really ridiculously
small; much less than would be the cost of hiring.
And while you have it, the car is yours to use as
you wish, when you wish.
Henlys apply this plan to the best British makes ;
and they have the largest stock of cars in England
for you to choose from.
Write for Henlys booklet, and further details,
now •
HENLYS
England’s Le d'ng Motor Agents
DEVONSHIRE HOUSE, PICCADILLY, LONDON, W. I
and at Manchester, Leeds and Bristol
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your fancy, write
to the Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
DO YOU WANT TO ENTER A PROFESSION?
fsd
Men of ability and average education who wish to get out of the rut and enter
a profession where there is a certainty of employment are advised to send for
our Prospectus. Here is one profession where the supply is not equal to the
demand. NOW is the time to begin.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
See Why 50 Miles an Hour
Seems Like 38
—with the Graham-Paige
Four-Speed Transmission
AAAAAM
auaauu'ju
PAI&t
Graham-Paige Distributors , Australia
and New Zealand:
New South Wales:
W. H. LOBER & CO., LTD.
Victoria:
WALTER WHITBOURN PTY., LTD.
South Australia:
MAUGHAN THIEM MOTOR CO., LTD.
West Australia:
ARTHUR BALES, LIMITED.
Queensland:
MOXON MOTORS, LTD.
Tasmania:
TWIN-TOP MOTORS PTY., LTD.
New Zealand:
WRIGHT, STEPHENSON & CO., LTD.
A Graham-Paige specially equipped with a
Tachometer is ready for you to drive. This
instrument enables you to see why you enjoy
such quiet smoothness in fourth (direct drive),
why you are so relaxed at the end of a long,
hard drive, why wear on moving parts is lessened
and car life lengthened. Then try third for
swift, silent acceleration in traffic and up steep
hills—and for a new and safer control of your
car. Only by driving a Graham-Paige with four
speeds forward can you realise the new comfort
and enjoyment that two quiet high speeds bring
to motoring.
TRY THE TACHOMETER TEST.
a«S
A»k/
lm>
Model Fivb'Passenger Touring
kAAMAM-PAIkE


(Tm
HI
ir
"nii
A
88
1
m
s
1^
ss
m.
*3
HAR-DT'S
SPA RfZLIJVG
“As refreshing as a fountain.
>9


X V
I—D)1 —D)
Em
P:
For utmost wear
and comfort
Light pliant and with
thick crepe rubber soles that
cushion the feet over the
hardest going—these are
the ideal golf shoes.
The crepe rubber is sewn to
a leather base that holds the
uppers in shape. The
uppers are neatly brogued
—low cut at sides—and
curved at the lacing to
accommodate the instep
arch without the least strain.
Abbey sports shoes of this
type outwear all ordinary
shoes.
Order by post.
You can choose full- or half-sizes, in
medium or wide fittings. Exact measure
is assured —the shoes fit easily from
the first time on. Specify width and
length needed. Order also the correct
Abbey Polish (6d. per tin) or one of
the handy, new cleaning outfits (2/6
complete).
Brown Willow Calf,
50/-
New summer sporting catalogue post
jree on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS'
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY
FPLIS6.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
tm
Perfection
PITSK ROBBER.
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
No disease has caused more loss in sheep than Fluke,
yet for less than one-fifth of a penny per sheep this
can now be cured by the application of Carbon
Tetrachloride. This process has been tested by the
Agricultural Departments of various States in Aus-
tralia, and has received their endorsement. It
requires preparation and additions before it can be
applied to the sheep, and these are skilfully carried
out in
SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
1 pint tins ... 4/6 5/- each
1 quart tins . . 6/6 7/- each
POST FREE ON FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins .. 13/6 16/- each
DELIVERED NEAREST RAILWAY STATION
ON FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY., LTD.,
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
3NN
Qiticua Soap
mm
NfDICINAI&TOIItT
fS
rut
Vnii
icura
OINTMENT
aSM
Derived from daily use of the
Cuticura
PREPARATIONS
The Soap, pure and fragrant, to cleanse
the skin; the Ointment, antiseptic and
healing, to remove pimples, rashes and
irritations; and finally the Talcum,
smooth and pure, to impart a pleasing
fragrance to the skin.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
X
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
f
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&CIu
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Officer 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
TX
AUTO TENTS
Made in our own factory so that all work is guaranteed. Suitable for
camping out in conjunction with a motor-car. Fitted with wall between
tent and car. Can be rolled into small space. Bft. x Bft. x 3ft. back
wall- “A”—Special heavy calico, 67/6; “B’ Calico front and sides,
with English duck roof, 85/-; “C”—Duck sides and front, with heavy
duck roof, 102/6. All supplied complete with necessary poles and ropes.
SPECIAL AUTO.TENT “D” Same material as our “C” tent, excepting
has extended front and back, which covers car completely in, £6/17/6.
All complete with fittings.
Goods Delivered Free on Rails or Boat, Melbourne.
sdf
BIGCEST HARDWARE HOUSE IN VICTORIA
(D. & W. CHANDLER, LTD.),
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, Victoria.
light scum, blow in about as much as would
fit on a threepenny-bit. Don't swallow any
Now for a remedy for ticks on saddle
horse or on Strawberry. Grind up some
garlic and mix it in a small bran-mash.
Forty-eight hours later watch the ticks drop
off.
FATTENING PIGS.
“Hatter”: In the U.S.A. many farmers
interested in growing pigs have joined “ton
litter clubs” in an effort to grow a ton of
pork within a certain time from one litter
of pigs. The most successful “building”
ration is as follows: 4 parts of ground
maize, 3 parts of ground oats, 2 parts pollard
and 1 part of fishmeal tankage. This is
suitable for sows and young pigs up to four
months old. It is highly palatable and the
oat hulls supply the necessary amount of
fibre to make the feed digestible. Fishmeal
is preferred to soya-bean meal, since animal
protein has been found more efficient for
pigs than vegetable protein. The mixture
can be fed either dry or in a sloppy con-
dition. This ration develops a good frame,
and the fattening is accomplished in the
last two months with a mixture of maize
and tankage only—nine parts maizemeal to
one part tankage.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Ways of treating bones for use as a
fertiliser ( I have four or five tons)? (2)
Chemical analysis of burnt bones? —3622.
(1) (a) Pack layer by layer with freshly
calcined wood ashes in a barrel; keep moist
for a few months, (b) Boil in a copper or
iron boiler with caustic lye for 2 to 3 hours
(for 15 parts of bones use 5 parts of caus-
tic soda dissolved in 15 parts of water),
(c) Mix bones in heaps with quicklime. On
a layer of loam 4 inches deep, place a layer
of bones 6 inches deep and then a layer of
fresh unslaked quicklime 3 inches deep. Then
layers of loam, bones and quicklime until
a convenient height is reached and the whole
covered by a thick layer of earth. Now
bore holes from the top and pour water in;
leave the heap for 3or 4 months. (2)
Partially burnt bones (bone char) contain
10.5 p.c. carbon, 80 p.c. calcium and mag-
nesium phosphates. 8.3 p.c. .calcium car-
bonate. Completely burnt bones (bone ash)
contain 35.5 p.c. phosphoric acid, 47 p.c.
lime, 9.8 p.c. magnesia and alkalies, 6.5 p.c.
sand and silica. The nitrogen is lost by
burning.
How to prevent losses among poultry dur-
ing a heat wave? —3861.
(1) In the first place, you must be on
hand or employ someone who will be. Last
summer, when heavy toll was taken of
N.S.W. birds, poultry farmers who suffered
most were those who were absent at the
crisis. When it is really hot, above lOOdeg.,
rounds should be made every hour to see that
the birds are not suffering, and to prevent
their packing into nests or corners in an
attempt to find a cool place—-this only
makes matters worse. Affected birds should
have their heads held under a tap or dipped
in a vessel of water; you should also wet
under the wings. Then place them in the
coolest spot available, preferably where there
is a draught. Several applications of water
may be necessary, but don’t overdo it
(saturation might cause a chill) ; nor
should water be thrown into the houses,
especially on a day when there is no wind,
though the ground may be damped near the
houses or in the shade of trees. If the
houses are reasonably large and well venti-
lated the birds will be cooler there than
anywhere; so on no account shut them out.
When a heat wave is likely it is advisable
to. reduce the morning mash and the evening
feed for a few days.
(1) What class of land is best suited for
walnut-growing in Victoria? (2) Methods
of planting, cultivating and harvesting? (3)
Yield per acre in Victoria, and any other
information ? —3700.
, (1) A deep, well-drained soil of a fairly
heavy nature, having plenty of moisture.
The quality of the subsoil is important, since
the walnut is a deep-rooted tree; a heavy,
though not impervious, subsoil is essential.
Walnuts are very frost-shy, particularly at
blooming-time; neither can they stand
extreme heat. (2) Plant not closer than
50ft. apart. Cultivation is the same as
Avith other fruit trees prior to planting.
In harvesting the nuts are allowed to fall;
those hanging on are knocked down with
padded poles. If dirty, they are washed in
revolving cylinders with wire-netting sides,
under a stream of water. They are then
placed in trays having slat bottoms to allow
the water to drain away, and dried as rapidly
as possible. (3) Owing to practically all
nuts being raised from unworked seedlings, it
is difficult to give the yield per acre; hardly
any two trees bear alike. (3) In the 1926
Vic. census of fruit trees the number of
walnut-trees, bearing and non-bearing, is
given as 11,863. Vic. production of walnuts,
1927-28, 30.2361 b. Vic. imports, 1927-28,
6939 packages of walnuts in shell, value
128,912, averaging lOd. per lb. 4036 pack-
ages of walnut meal value £13,454, averaging
Is. Sd. per lb.
(1) Is the Picton (N.S.W.) district suit-
able for cherry-growing? (2) Number of
trees one would have to plant to ensure at
least a basic-wage living for man and wife?
(3) Best varieties to plant? (4) How long
after planting do trees begin to bear? —3691.
(1) Too risky to depend on cherry-
growing alone. (2) Formerly about 10 acres
would average a fair living, but owing to
greater production and consequent lower
prices, also increase in cost of production,
profits during the last few years have
diminished very much. As cherries are a
difficult crop to handle in large quantities,
most growers prefer to limit their area of
this fruit and cultivate other fruit as well.
(3) St. Margaret, Florence and Noble, are
recommended for such districts as Orange.
Early Lyons is also largely grown, but the
indications are that it has been over-planted.
In fact it does not seem wise to increase
the area of any variety of cherries in N.S.W.
at present. (4) Cherry-trees take on an
average about 10 years to yield a payable
crop.
Symptoms of powdery mildew -in cucum-
bers? Also cause and control measures? —
3859
The mildew also attacks squashes, pump-
kins, rock-melons and the like. It is con-
spicuous as a white superficial, powder-like
growth. The affected tissues at first appear
normal, but become brown and dry. In
severe attacks the leaves are killed and the
plant is weakened. A fungus does the
damage, and it is combated by spraying or
dusting, though at times the crops are not
valuable enough to warrant the expense.
Bordeaux mixture (4-4-40) should be used
as a spray, and flowers of sulphur may be
dusted on the plants while covered with dew
in the early morning; the Bordeaux may be
combined with a lead-arsenate spray. It is
necessary to reach the under-surface of the
leaves with the spray or dust, and in wet
or humid weather repeat the application at
least once a week., In dry periods no treat-
ment is necessary, but the plants should have
a protective coating of spray or dust before
the disease has .spread to any extent. A
rotation of crops is of value.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Y.”: A simple dressing applied by Eng-
lish sheepowners to sheep struck with the
blowfly consists of bichloride of mercury,
loz.; turpentine, 20z.; table salt, 20z.;
buttermilk, 1 quart. Dissolve the mercury
and salt in the buttermilk and then add the
turpentine. Shake the mixture and apply
with a swab made of a sponge or a soft
rag tied on to a stick. This dressing will
destroy the maggots without injuring the
skin.
“Bill R.”; Twins, if reared, bring up
the lambing percentage at marking time.
Among paddocked droppers, though, the ewe
with a newborn pair is satisfied usually to
give her attention to one lamb, the weaker
being abandoned in their wanderings afield.
It is advisable to place ewes with twins in
a separate small paddock until each of
the juveniles is sufficiently strong to follow
the mother about.
“Bert the Carpenter”: A good emergency
hack-saw? Place your hand-saw back up-
wards in the vyce, and with a three-cornered
file cut small teeth along the back about
Gin. from the point. Keep these teeth as
square on the points as possible, and put
about 12 of them to the inch. No need to
set them. Dozens of bolts, small bars, etc.
can be cut through before the teeth need re-
sharpening, and, of course, the teeth on the
front edge of the saw aren’t injured in the
least.
“Mug Cocky”: If your Fordson is a stub-
born starter try this. Remove and clean
commutator, lightly oil with a light-grade
magneto oil or pack with vaseline and
replace. Lizzie’s disinclination to start is
due to the heated oil in the commutator
cooling off during the night and to tiny
drops of water between the roller and com-
mutator contacts setting up a short circuit.
Cleaning and re-oiling should cure this.
“Cooringa”: One of the greatest trials to
many farmers, especially in warm, moist
locaiities east of the range in Queensland, is
the noxious land troublesome growth, on
headlands. Particularly is this so in lands
given to maize and sugar-cane, etc., as a
fairly wide headland has to be left for
turning while scuffling between the rows.
A good plan and a profitable one on mixed
farms where stock are kept is to sow some
smothering crop. Sudan grass is a wonder-
fully quick grower, and there are several
millets and panicums of value.
“Wrash”: To make the camp-tent rain-
proof, get two tubs. In the first dissolve
lib. of ordinary soap, in the second lib. of
alum—each in a gallon of boiling water.
When the solutions have partly cooled,
throw the tent into the soap tub, and
let it remain for 15 minutes. Then wring
out and give it an alum bath for an equal
period. If the fabric of the tent is still
rather penetrable, repeat the baths.
“Jack Point”: Plant a ehoko or two
against the fowl-house. It will grow quickly
and provide welcome shade, and in addition
furnish green food. The leaves certainly
don’t appear to be very succulent, but fowls
eat them greedily.
“Bung”: To cure the egg-eating fowl soak
some eggs for half an hour in kerosene, and
place them in her way. Repeat the dose,
again and again. Presently you will find
the eggs untouched, and looks of disgust on
the face of the chook.
“’lggins”: Dr. F. Crew, of Edinburgh Uni-
versity, recently carried out experiments in
fertility of much interest to poultry breeders.
He found that fertile eggs are to be expected
within 24 to 48 hours of the introduction
of the male bird to the flock. The length
of the life of the sperm within the body of
the hen is about 15 to 20 days; in excep-
tional oases, more. If after the removal of
the male a second male is introduced, the
influence of the first sire is extinguished by
the seventh to the tenth day.
“Chook” : Before incubators are used each
season the inside trays and woodwork should
be cleansed with a cloth dipped in disin-
fectant. The machines should then be fumi-
gated by placing in a dish half an ounce of
permanganate of potash and pouring over it
2 ounces of formalin. This is sufficient for
a 400-egg capacity; anything over that num-
ber requires extra in proportion. Be careful
not to inhale the fumes.
“Hatter” : Apple scald can be fairly well
controlled by the use of oiled paper (B.
27/11/’2O), but it is not essential to wrap
each apple separately. American tests have
resulted in a recommendation to scatter
l|lb. of oiled paper through each barrel of
apples. The paper should carry at least 15
p.c. of its weight in odorless, tasteless
mineral oil, and it is cut into strips about
5 inches long and fin. wide, which are well
distributed.
“Spray”: At Wagga (N.S.W.) sulphur
and lime spray in the proportion of 121 b.
sulphur and 61b. lime to 100 gallons of water
lias been found effective in exterminating the
red spider. Bring 5-gallon drums three
parts filled with water to a boil : mix sul-
phur to a paste and add'to the boiling water.
Slack the lime in boiling water to the con-
sistency of cream, mix the two together and
boil for about an hour. Then dilute to the
100 gallons of water.
“Sylvester”: To keep plane-irons, etc.,
from' becoming rusty, rub them over with a
lump of mutton fat. A lump in the tool-
box is a great help.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Accountancy student (26), Sydney, wants clerical
work to defray cost of studies. Efficient bookkeeper,
cashier, personal refs. —3896.
Station manager, Q’land, wide experience cattle
and sheep, wants management property, any size,
any State. —3884.
By young man, commercial training, passage to
England return secretarial duties. —3878.
Overseer, N.S.W., single, wants job ; sound know-
ledge stock and station work, can keep books.—
3876.
Steady man (32), present car driving, eight years’
workshop experience, wants job on Q’land station.
• —3875.
Lady, Sydney, middle-aged, would give services
as guide or companion during summer vacation, city
or suburbs. —3873.
Handy man (25), used to horses and motors,
farm and station, wants job out-back any State. —
3872.
N.S.W. man (26), experienced engineering, sur-
veying and constructions, wants interesting well-
paid job anywhere.—3B7l. '
Young man, experience stock, seeks position over-
seer, Queensland or N. Territory.—3B6B.
Young man, storekeeping experience, handy with
tools and machinery, wants employment with trader
or planter, Islands.-j-3866.
Westralian (29), station book- and store-keeper,
wants job, W.A. —3865.
By plumber and tinsmith, improver, well advanced,
job in Vic. —3857.
Young man, Sydney, strong, well educated, wants
job, anything, anywhere.—-3854.
Lady (29) desires position as companion-help or
housekeeper, anywhere, experienced.—3B46.
Imperial service-man, Aus. exp., wants job as
station carpenter and handy man; painting and
cement work ; can drive car. —3834.
Married man (35), exp. double-entry bookkeeping,
cashier, correspondence clerk, wants clerical position,
station or general office, anywhere Vic. or N.S.W. ;
own typewriter and adding machine.—3B74.
Traveller proposing to sail yacht England to
Sydney, via Panama Canal, 1930, would be pleased
to hear from persons interested. —3839.
To buy any first editions of Kathleen Mansfield.
—3887.
To buy Vol. I “The Islander” (1875) ; Vols. I
to IV “The Stockwhip” ; Vol. I “Colonial Literary
Journal” ; Phil May’s “Annuals” ; Vol. I “Yandoo.”
—3891.
Maoriland woman (29), in business in Sydney,
would like to hear from lonely Maorilanders or
English people interested literature, music, and out-
doors. —3837.
Words of recitation “Nervous Bridegroom.”—3B44.
To buy first edition “Forsyte Saga.”—392o.
Digger, Sydney, unable continue present work
through failing health due war wounds, seeks spare-
time job to pay for educational course. Exp. literary
work, typing; can drive car; used to handling staff
of girls.—39ll.
Young Scotsman, N.S.W.. well educated, good
appearance and address, medically unfit heavy work,
wishes post as travelling companion, sec., or invalid
attendant. —3905.
Information Sought.
(1) / have worked as a farm-laborer
since my return from the tear? Can I still
apply for a selection in N.S.W.? (2) If
so, what would be the maximum advance,
and where is land available? —3803.
(1) Yes, but there is no land at present
available in N.S.W. for returned soldiers
exclusively. Land is available for general
selection and a returned soldier may apply in
the ordinary way. (2) If successful in obtain-
ing a block, certified as a home maintenance
area, you may apply to the Returned Sol-
diers’ Settlement Branch for an advance
not exceeding £625. There is no guarantee
that an advance would be granted, but an
application would be considered on its
merits. Lists of lands available and becom-
ing available and further information may
be got from the Information Bureau of the
Department of Lands, Sydney.
(1) Date of the next exam, for admission
to the Teachers’ Training College , Sydney?
(2) Any scholarships available? —3802.
(1) April 15 and 16, 1930. (2) Yes;
each of the value of £5O, supplemented by
£3O where the student has to board away
from home, provided the parents live in N. S.
Wales.
(1) I want to join the volunteer force
now being raised; how should I go about it?
(2) Age limits? (3) Period of service? (4)
Are uniforms, arms, etc., issued free? (5)
Any pay? —3B97.
(1) Apply to the commanding officer of
the unit you desire to join, or to District
Base Commandant at the capital city of
your State. , (2) 18 to 40 years. (3) First
period of enlistment, 3 years; subsequent
period for re-engagement, 1 year; age for
retirement of warrant officers, non-coms, and
men, 48 years. (4) Uniform, arms and
equipment will be issued free. (5) Payment
will be made for 16 days’ training annually,
inclusive of 8 days in camp; no camps of
continuous training will, however, be held
during the financial year ending on June 30,
1930. Rate of pay for privates is 4s. a day.
During attendance at the annual camp a
married man receiving less than Bs. a day
may be paid separation allowance of Is. 3d.
a day for his wife and for each child
under the age of 14 years. Non-coms, re-
ceive varying rates of pay, commencing at
9s. a day for corporals.
Is it a handicap for an air pilot with a
Class-B license not to have had R.A.A.F.
training ? —3776.
It should not jeopardise his chances of
obtaining employment. If he graduated with
a recognised training organisation, such as
the Sydney Aero Club, and has completed
over 200 hours’ flying, including a con-
siderable amount of cross-country experience,
he would probably be regarded by a pros-
pective employer with more favor than a
member of the R.A.A.F. with less experience
of cross-country flying. In other words,
the principal factor governing civil employ-
ment would be successful flying experience,
and not the question whether such experi-
ence had been gained as a service pilot or
otherwise.
Pilotage rates for vessels entering and
leaving N S.W. ports? —3B63.
Vessels in the whaling trade and those
whose masters have pilots’ certificates are
exempt, unless a pilot is actually employed.
For ships (a) in ballast, (b) refitting or
docking, (c) arriving on pleasure or for
orders, repairs, provisions or coal, or through
stress of weather, the rate is L|d. per ton
(net) on arrival and on departure. For
other ships it is 24d. per ton on arrival and
on departure. Maximum charge is £25, and
minimum £3, at Sydney or Newcastle.
Vessels being removed from one. place to
another in a port where there is a pilot
establishment are charged harbor removal
dues, unless the master possesses a pilot’s
certificate —£1 to £4 10s., according to size,
and half rates after the third removal.
(1) Any likelihood of injury resulting to
galvanised-iron through painting' it with red-
oxide? (2) Any benefit to be derived from
using back-bands on plough-horses’ harness?
(3) Are pawpaw trees planted close to a
house injurious to health? (4) Any danger
of injuring bananas by the use of muriate
of potash on the alluvial flats and the
higher red-soil lands of the Russell River
(Q.) ? —3037.
(1) No; so long as the’ paint lasts intact,
it protects the iron from the weather. (2)
Yes; there is less likelihood of the horses’
sides being chafed, and there is less sagging
of the trace-chains whilst the horses are
standing or when turning at the headlands.
(3) Officers of the Queensland Health De-
partment say no. (4) Muriate of potash
is particularly recommended as a fertiliser
for bananas in place of sulphate of potash.
For laying bricks, what quantity of sand
should be used to unslaked lime with three-
bushel corn-bag as measure? —3799.
Three bags of sand to one bag of stone
lime. On a clean surface form a ring of
the sand, place the unslaked lime in the
centre, add water and gradually mix the
sand into the lime as it slakes.
' (1) How to- get in touch with Queens-
land mechanical mining or electrical engin-
eers willing to take apprentices? (2)
Age for such apprenticeships? (3) Is 19
too 01d?—3653.
(1) Naturally we are not in a position
to state who actually- require apprent.ces.
Obtain a list of firms from the “Post Office
Directory” and address inquiries to them.
(2) Any person over the age of 14 and
under 21 is eligible. (3) Write to the
Apprenticeship Office, Treasury Buildings,
Brisbane, or inquire from the nearest labor
agent with respect to registration for
apprenticeship.
(1) In what year and where did Samuel
Pepys die? (2) What is the best edition of
his diary? (3) By whom was the diary
deciphered, and when was it first published?
(4) In whose custody was it kept between
Pepys’s death and publication, and where
is it now? (5) What was the nature of
the secret script Pepys used? —3795.
(1) He died at Clapham, London, on May
25, 1703. (2) The standard edition of the
diary is that by H. B. Wheatley in nine
vols., published in London from 1893 to
1899. (3) The MS. was deciphered by John
Smith between 1819 and 1822, and the first
and partial edition, edited by Richard Neville
Griffin, appeared in 1825 in two vols. (4)
Magdalene College, Cambridge, where it is
preserved. (5) He wrote it in Shelton’s
system of taehygraphy, published in 1641,
which he complicated by using foreign lan-
guages or by a code of his own invention
whenever he bad to record piassag’es he
wished to screen from the vulgar gaze.
Who were the O’Tooles? —3542.
One of the first mentioned in Irish history
was associated with King Tuathal Techtmar,
who reigned a.d. 130-160. In the fifth cen-
tury Maine, a relative of the King of Tara,
was apportioned a tract of the Firbolg
territory in Connaught, and the State so
formed was later ruled over by an O’Toole
as king. In mediaeval and later times the
name became common.
(1). What is the formula for arriving at
capital value of grazing or agricultural lands
based on earning power? (2) Same with
regard to town properties based on rental?-
3222.
(1) There is no formula which is invari-
able. One factor is the rate of interest
required. Obviously, if a 10 p.c. return is
regarded as a fair thing, for a property
returning £lOO net no more than £lOOO can
be paid, while if 7 p.c. is reckoned a fair
thing one can go to just past £l4OO. Most
Land Boards have formulas for ascertaining
rents; but they are constantly modifying
them to meet special circumstances. (2)
Ditto.
Number of soldiers of each country killed
and wounded in the Great War ? —3783.
Great Britain and Ireland; killed
743,702, wounded 1,693,262; Canada,
59,625 and 149,732; Australia, 59,330 and
152,171; New Zealand, 16,136 and 40,729;
India, 61,398 and 70,859; other British
Possessions, 8832 and 15,153; France,
1,393,388 and 1,490,000; Belgium, 38,172
and 44,686; Italy, 460,000 and 947,000;
Portugal, 7222 and 13,751; Rumania,
335,706 —no record of wounded: Serbia,
127,535 and 133,148; U.S.A., 115,660 and
205,690; Germany, 2,050,466 and 4,202,028;
Austria and Hungary, 1,200,000 and
3,620,000; Bulgaria, 101,224 and 152,400;
and Turkey, 300,000 and 570,000. No
definite figures are available for Russia.
(1) Is it lawful to brew ale at home for
household consumption? (2) Any limit on
alcohol content of home-brew? —3671.
(1) Section 8 of the Beer Excise Act
1921-28 provides; “No person shall make
beer except pursuant to this Act, nor unless
he is licensed to do so under this Act."
Penalty £lOO. (2) Excise Tariff 1929, Item
1, provides that: “Beer and any other fer-
mented liquor containing not less than 2 per
cent, of proof spirit shall be dutiable.”
What are dingo , wallaby and kangaroo
skins worth in N.S.W.? —3825.
Dingo skins have no value. For grey
kangaroo skins averaging 61b. a dozen and
under you can get from Is. to 2s. each;
over 61b. and up to 91b., 2s. Id. to 2s. Bd. ;
91b. to 141 b., 3s. 2d. 'to 4s. Bd.; 141 b.
to 201 b., 4s. 6d. to ss. Id.; over 201 b. and up
to 301 b., 4s. 2d. to ss. sd. Red kangaroo
skins averaging 61b. per dozen and under,
is. 4d. to 2s. 4d. each; 61b. to 91b., 2s. 6d,
to 35.; 91b. to 141 b., 4s. to ss. Id.; 141 b.
to 251 b., 4s. 4d. to 6s. 3d. Wallaroo, lOd.
to 3s. 9d. each. Scrub wallaby, Bd. to Is.
Bd. each. Swamp wallaby, Sd. to Is. Bd. each.
Rock wallaby, 6d. to Is. 4d. each.
How are moving pictures like the “Micky
the Mouse” cartoons made? —3742.
For every movement of the cartoon char-
acters the artist designs a separate drawing.
Roughly, four drawings are fashioned to
show a complete movement. Thus if the
artist desires to register Micky bending down
to pick up an object, he designs four sketches
showing the mouse in’ the various stages of
bending. Each sketch when photographed
occupies about four frames of film. A com-
plete cartoon is 500 feet in length when
photographed, so that 2000 sketches are re-
quired. These sketches are automatically
exposed before the camera, resulting in life-
like animation. From the negative a posi-
tive is printed and screened in a sound
studio in the presence of a sound technician
who devises a synchronised sound effect and
a musical score. This is separately recorded
on a movietone sound track and subsequently
“duped” on to the original negative. From this
stage it is merely a matter of printing and
developing the required number of copies for
exhibition throughout the world. A studio
specialising in Cinesound cartoons usually
turns out about 12 pictures per year.
(1) Is the former Kaiser Wilhelm’s Land
under British or Australian mandate?
(2) Population of Ninigo Islands, New
Guinea? —-3825.
(1) It forms part of the Territory of
New Guinea, administered by Australia
under mandate. (2) When last recorded,
241—123 males and 118 females.
Have (1) horehound, (2) dandelion, (3)
dock roots and (4) centaury any medicinal
value? If so what are they used for and
method of preparation? —3770.
(1) H'orehound ( Marrubium vulgare) is
laxative in large doses, and is sometimes used
by herbalists for pulmonary complaints,
especially catarrh. It is usually prepared
as a tea or syrup by infusing loz. of the herb
in a pint of boiling water, of which a wine-
glassful is taken as a dose two or three times
a day. (2) Dandelion ( Taraxacum officinale)
root is regarded as slightly tonic, aperient
and diuretic. The leaves when young are
occasionally used as a salad in Europe. (3)
The roots of Rumex crispus (curled dock)
have been used for preparing a decoction or
ointment as a cure for “the itch.” (4)
Erythraea centaurium (common centaury)
possesses a bitter principle which has been
used by herbalists as a tonic, but it appears
to be unimportant in this respect. The
foregoing remarks apply only to the botanical
species named ; in order to be sure that the
right species is being dealt with, specimens
should be properly identified.
(1 ) Must British subjects entering Canada
produce a landing charge; if so, what is the
amount? (2) Can shipping cos, refuse to book
unless the intending passenger proves pos-
session of the landing charge? —3BlB.
(1) In the case of British subjects the
Canadian immigration regulations require that
they shall be in good physical and mental
health and of good mortal character, and that
they have in their possession upon landing
sufficient money to maintain themselves until
they get work. The amount varies, but
members of any European race are required
to have £5O per person and British subjects
£25. (2) Australian steamship companies for
their own protection usually stipulate, for
£3O per person, so that in the event of rejec-
tion at port of entry the cost of the return
passage is available.
Two executors were appointed by a
Queenslander’s will. The beneficiaries desire
that only one executor should carry on;
what steps can be taken should the other
executor demur? —3850.
None, unless it can. be shown that he is
wrongfully or wastefully administering the
estate; then an application could be made
to the Court to have him removed and
another executor appointed in his place. If
everything is in order, executors appointed
by a will are not in any way controlled by
the beneficiaries.
(1) Any ban against bringing orchids
into Australia? (2) Are we allowed to
send our native orchids abroad? —3791.
(1) No, but plants of any kind must go
through the hands of the quarantine officer
in charge of plant importation. (2) The
exportation of plants is governed by the
quarantine regulations of the country to
which the plants are consigned. Such plants
have also to be inspected by the quarantine
authorities here before being shipped. It
is almost impossible to send living plants
into the U.S.A.; accompanied by a certifi-
cate. plants may be sent to any European
country or to the Dominions.
(1) What, Maoriland native trees have
bark suitable for tanning? (2) Are rimu,
kowliai and maire included? (3) A method
of computing> grades from degrees. For
instance, what is the grade of \deg. of 2-dcg.,
s deg., and so forth? —3389.
(1) Black beech, tanekaha and kamahi.
(2) The bark of rimu has been used by
fishermen for tanning sails and nets, that
of kowhai and maire has no tanning value;
(3) Find the cotangent of the angle of slope;
the o-rade is then 1 in the cotangent of
the angle. The cotangent of an angle of 1
degree is 57.3; of 2deg., 28.6; of sdeg.,
11.4. Therefore a slope of 1 degree equals
a grade of 1 in 57.3; of 2deg., a grade of 1
in 28.6; of sdeg., a grade of 1 in 11.14.
A is managing director of a firm which
supplied electric light to a municipality. The
firm sold its right in the electricity plant to
B. who now supplies the municipality. Is A
eligible to stand as alderman? The Bulle-
tin said yes. It seems now that the muni-
cipality still hold A’s firm responsible for
the safe working of the light, although it
derives no benefit from the contract, haring
handed it over to B. Will that now debar
A from contesting an election?- —3465.
No. Obviously he hasn’t “any direct or
indirect pecuniary interest in any agreement
or trading with the Council” in terms of sec-
tion 30 (3) (b) of the N.S.W. Local Gov-
ernment Act, 1019, so he would not be dis-
qualified under that provision of the law
from contesting a local-government election.
(1) Cost of H.M.A.S. Australia, and (2)
11. Hood ? —3826.
According to “Jane’s Fighting Ships,” (1)
£1,802,770; (2) £6,025,000. These amounts
are exclusive of ammunition, torpedoes,
stores, spares, etc.
What writer advanced the theory that a
dog that loses his fleas is in danger of losing
his identity? —3sB2.
Ernest O’Ferrall (“Kodak”), in verse en-
titled “The Mean Hound,” Lone Hand,
June, 1907.
Brief Answers.
F.A.8.: (1) Depends upon the risk one is
prepared to take in return for a few extra pounds
a year. The “Wild Cat” divides investment stocks
into 10 classes. These are in class 4. (2) Subject
to foregoing, yes.. . .H.McD.: (1) Yes. (2) Depends
on what preliminary work they did; if it really
amounted to anything, the sum suggested wouldn’t
be excessive. (3) They could stipulate for a job
of some sort... .W.T.H.: There is no demand for
snake skins at present... .A.M.: Assuming what is
not clear, that co. is insolvent, preferential treat-
ment of your claim would be fraudulent. But it’s
a case for advice by a solicitor with the whole of
the facts before him... .F.M.S.: Apply Railway and
Tramway Staff Board, Central Station, Sydney....
T. : Write Mcßeath and Co., 89 York-street, Sydney.
H.F.T.: There must be a space of time, however
infinitesimal, in which a moving body comes to
rest before reversing its motion... .C.C.: American
Rationalist Assoc., 635 North Clark-street, Chicago,
111. U.S.A K.N.: Any lad of 16 and upwards,
or girl not less than 18, if not subject to certain
statutory disqualifications, is eligible to acquire
land on the N.S.W. Irrigation Areas; two or more
such persons may apply for and hold the land jointly.
.. . .W.K.: Try International Harvester Co., A.M.P.
Buildings, Perth. .. .C.H.: Write N.S.W. Dept, of
Agriculture, Sydney, for free pamphlet, “Sugarcane
as Fodder” C.T.D.: See “Australian Encyclo-
pedia” (page 212, vol. I), also “Life and Adven-
tures of William Buckley,” by Morgan... .8.P.: A
superficial foot is one foot long by one foot wide
by one inch thick; a foot surface is one foot long
by one foot wide, irrespective of thickness
J.H.T.: There are coalfields in Somersetshire, England,
but they are now of no great importance. There are
none in Devonshire. .. .O.B.: Write to W. Holmes,
McMahon’s Point or Hayes and Sons, Neutral Bay.
D.S.: A.M.P., 89 Pitt-street; City Mutual, 60
Hunter-street—both Sydney W.F.P.: A power of
attorney is a writing or form authorising some person,
as attorney, to do a lawful act in another s stead ;
for example,' to execute a deed... .R.J.N.: B is
liable for damage done to crop on A’s land through
trespass of B’s sheep; A is the person who should
proceed. . . .M.R.: There are several awards applicable
to shorthand writers and typists in Sydney; you
give insufficient details. Write Industrial Registrar,
Dept, of Labor and Industry, Sydney, stating nature
of employment... .A.S.: C. A. Crockett, N.Z. Assoc.,
171 Kent-street, Sydney, will give particulars
H. : Try Graziers’ Co-op. Shearing Co., Sirius
House, Macquarie-place, Sydney... .S.E.J.: Apply
Advances for Homes Department, N.S.W. Govt. Sav-
ings Bank, Castlereagh-street, Sydney W.R.:
There is no South Aus. award for butter-factory
employees outside the metropolitan area. You could
get a copy of the Wholesale Grocers’ Board deter-
mination, which operates in the metropolitan area,
at the Govt. Printing Office, Adelaide, for 3d
A.L.R.: Shakspeare’s burlesque on the story of
Pyramos and Thisbe in “A Midsummer Night’s
Dream” has its origin in Greek mythology. Ovid
uses the theme Briton: The big guns used m
the defence of Ladysmith were of 4.7 calibre
W.M.D.: His address is Dearborn, Detroit, Michigan,
U. R.H.F.: (1) No, only the amount of the
boundary score; four or as may be. (2) In running
for a wide only the actual runs taken count
W.J.: 67 York-street, Sydney; mark letters
to be forwarded. .. .E.S.M.: Nitrate of ammonia
cannot be bought much cheaper than 4s. per lb. for
the commercial salt and 6s. per lb. for the pure salt.
Ice-making by the aid of chemicals is very expen-
sive and not altogether satisfactory E.R.R.: You
could give the person notice to leave and remove
personal belongings by a certain time, and in the
event of non-compliance you could remove the
belongings from the room and lock it up. A seme
or threats might warrant calling in the police
N.F.C.: N.S.W. had 407 licensed racecourses in
1927 H.C.L.: Get in touch with Robert G. Nall,
Reservoir-street, and Spicers and Detmold, cornet
Kent and Druitt streets —both Sydney M.P.:
Ernest Fitts played Mephisto. in “Faust” ; doubtful if
he ever played in “Uncle Tom’s Cabin.” He is still
alive in Victoria... .R.M.K.: You must tell us
the brand before we can make inquiries... .W.G.E.:
In the scene where Alice and Flipper sing The
Piccaninnies” in “The Runaway Girl,” they may
wear either their second-act costumes or plantation
nigger dress; they should not blacken their faces... -
W.E.A.: (1) Victoria was first with old-age pensions
the Turner Government introduced them on Jan.
I, 1901. The Commonwealth scheme arrived on
July 1, 1909 ; Deakin was Prime Minister when
the Act was passed. (2) Maximum old-age pension
was £26 p.a. until October 12, 1916; it was
increased to £32 10s. then; to £39 on Jan. 15,
’2O; to £45 10s. on Sept. 13, ’23; and to 102 on
October 8, ’25. (3) and (4) Quantities of Australian
and imported tobacco leaf used during 1926-27 were
1,212,7941 b. and 17,396,7181 b. respectively. (5) No
l uc k G.M.8.: E. G. Theodore was born at Port
Adelaide on Dec. 29, 1884. .. .E.K.: There are r.o
clerical openings for youths in the Q’land railway
service, nor are there likely to be for some time..**
MD. • Clement Wragge died at Auckland (M.L.) on
Dec. 10, 1922 J.G.: See Birt’s “Benedictine
Pioneers in Australia” and Cardinal Moran’s “His-
tory of the Catholic Church in Australasia”
L C.: If it is a condition of the loan you cannot
avoid it or vary it. The time to have objected was
when you were negotiating for the 10an... .N.R.P-•
Lindbergh flew from New York to Paris, 3639 miles,
in May, 1927; flying time, hours F.S.: Lines
are from the first act of “The Beggar’s Opera”....
(Many others mailed.)


MOTORISTS! Make the Acquaintance of—
STERNOL MM OIL
You will be Friends for Life!
Si
K
£
\
l!h.
ii»!
ii 11 * *
M
!»;:
IS!
!!h
BdRCDOOT
!».
iii'
lilll
ill!
j!i|!
mi
STERNOL MOTOR OIL is manufactured by
Messrs. Sternol Limited, England, who have been
making first-grade lubricating oils for many years.
They have perfected and patented a VOLTOLIS-
ING PROCESS, with the result that the lubricants
now being placed on the market are the highest
quality it is possible to make.
STERNOL MOTOR OIL is now being packed
in the
NEW, HANDY 5-GALLON DRUMS
with which is issued a
FREE BRASS TAP
to each purchaser.
Install the new 5-gallon drum in your garage and
save time, trouble and money. You can then draw
off the amount you need, at any time, without the
necessity of running to a service-station. And,
moreover, you can be sure of getting the right
grade for your car.
IN 5-GALLON DRUMS THE PRICE IS
PER 38(9 DRUM
You Pay for the Oil Only-
Drum and Tap are FREE
If you own a “MORRIS” or an “AUSTIN,
Read This —
THE AUSTIN MOTOR CO. use and officially recom-
mend Sternol WWH for use in all models.
MESSRS. MORRIS MOTORS, LTD., officially
approve the use of Sternol WWM for use in all models.
Use ONLY the Oil the Makers Recommend
You will get Sweeter Running, More Power and Less Carbon from your Engine
if you stick to STERNOL.
■t
a
SI
m
m
fONMnuattP
SKSSn
It
W
«
mu
111
KM
“Makes Engines Purr.”
OBTAINABLE ONLY FROM
WILLIAM ADAMS <f COMPANY
_____ LI M I TED—/
Sydney:
175 Clarence Street.
Melbourne:
521 Collins Street.
Perth:
432 Murray Street.
Adelaide:
157 Way mouth Street.
Brisbane:
93 Albert Street.


dtf'
<iP 'up
&
&
0°
Telegraphic, Cable and Wireless Address
“Austraotel, Sydney.”
Never take it for granted
that “The Australia’’ is
full, or listen to people
who say “it’s no use apply-
ing—they’re sure to be
booked-up.”
On the contrary, our accommodation
is equal to practically all demands
placed upon it. Should we be fully
booked when you apply, we will
gladly arrange the next best avail-
able accommodation.
SMOKE-OH!
“Since a person is entitled to sit in the Canadian
Senate and a woman is a person, it is irrefutable
logic that a woman is entitled to sit in the Senate.”
—Aiigus.
And once she is there, of course, logic
ends.
* *
“Anything Fresh ?” — Sun.
Well, the Sun might consider some of
these young beach-sheiks.
* *
“What answer shall we make for our sins when
Gabriel blows his horn?” —Sydney clergyman.
Say it’s a trumped-up charge, of course.
£(EAGUE) S (PORT) D(OPE).
“Australia beat Yorkshire by five goals five tries
to three goals and two tries, the receipts, £627,
showing a decline of over £lOO compared with the
corresponding match of the last tour.” — Cable.
Securing the ball from the scrum, Busch
cut through nicely, and passed to Shankland
while £5 4s. fld. entered the grandstand, and
£1 19s. 6d. the public ground. An additional
A SCORE TO MARY.
“Why are you' always sucking an empty pipe, Mary?”
“Cos some plurry phfool always fill it!”
15s. arrived in time to see Spencer effectively
grassed by Jenny, and the play was quickly
transferred to the ' Australians’ goal-line,,
where some fierce scrum work ensued.
Grandstand, £212 12s. 3d.; public sections,
£3lO os. 6d. Weissel saved what appeared
to be a dangerous situation by a splendid
line kick which evoked hearty applause, in
which an additional 255. joined. Yorkshire,
however, continued to press, while several
odd additional shillings were ticked up. At
3.20 p.m £9 7s. 6d, arrived in a char-
a-banc amidst loud cheers. At half-time the
scores were equal, with £627 in the ground,
and every prospect of a further £2O or so
(principally in the public section) provided
the weather held.
H. H.
People who blame farmers for grousing
should remember that dry seasons are bound
to leave them a bit. short in the grain.
* *
Whether the coal dispute was caused by
the miners’ employers or the miners’ leaders
its prolongation is undoubtedly due to the
minus shilling.
* *
Motto of northern strike leaders: “When
in doubt play thumps.”
* *
EXPERT ASSISTANCE.
“With the assistance of Mr. George Lambert, Mr.
Sid Smith and Miss Thea Proctor, the Ford Motor
Co. of Aust. has produced a new set of sparkling
body styles for different body types of Ford cars.
The efforts of the artists have amazed the trade,
particularly a special creation named ‘The Lambert.’ ”
—Sun.
His Honor Justice Tomb, of the Equity
Court, was kindly helping Freddy Shirk, the
well-known criminal defender, in a> murder
case.
“See the juror with the glass eye?” whis-
pered Shirk. “I’ve got him squared.”
Presently this juror’s name was called.,
“Challenge!” cried Justice Tomb sharply,
and the juror withdrew registering surprise.
“We must conduct this case,” said Jus-
tice Tomb, “exactly as we would in Equity.
Let us behave like English gentlemen. In
this way we will win the admiration of the
better elements in court, and greatly assist
our man.”
The jury convicted without leaving the
box, and the death sentence was passed, but
the condemned man is believed to have been
considerably comforted by the knowledge that
he had expert advice of such a high order
in his trouble.
“No,” said the eminent poet who had
temporarily deserted literature to teach the
editor of the tabloid
daily his job, "I
wouldn’t star that
item about the
machine-gunning of
the Darlinglmrst
Snow Gang by Mick
Bludshot and his
wife. It’s too crude.
You must dis it and
substitute tj h i; s
beautiful word-
picture of the main
street of Bundaberg
by moonlight. We'll
have the photo-
graph of the bath-
ing beauties out
too; they’re practi-
cally naked, which
is bound to revolt
your readers. I
have just done a
3000-word psycho-
logical study en-
titled ‘The Silent
Service,’ demon-
strating why Sir
Dudley de Chair
and Rear-Admiral
Evans dislike pub-
licity. We’ll put
that in instead of
the girls. And then
there’s this rotten
insurance stunt of
yours”
A n ambulance
called for the poet
later.
Obituary.
A large and re-
presentative gather-
ing attended the
funeral of Profes-
sor Bonehead. The
professor, an avia-
tion expert of half
a century’s stand-
ing and author of
no less than 17
books on flying,
decided on Satrir-
day to give Captain Ace, D.S.C., M.C., etc.,
the benefit of his vast—though purely theo-
retical —experience. He was demonstrating
his world-famous “Theory of Stabilisation”
when the ’plane turned upside down, and
fell from a height of 1000 feet into the
harbor. The last reported words of the
captain (who leaves a widow and two child-
ren) were in a sense prophetic. “I suppose
I’m the mug,” he observed to our representa-
tive, “letting an old goat who’s never
touched a joystick in his life teach me my
Job ” Max F.
* *
The picture with the new dimension—
depth—is about to arrive. We’ll look further
into this.
“A new British ’plane can fly, travel on water
and manoeuvre on the ground.”
They’ll get that pedestrian yet.
TAKING NO CHANCES.
“And does he know he’s so eligible?”
“Does he know! Why, my dear, whenever he meets a girl he
employs a lawyer to say good-bye to her for him!”
“More than 100 letters from stranglers in all
parts of the State have expressed sympathy with
the patient.” —Sydney Sun.
This sort of sympathy must give him that
choking sensation.
We give the prize for optimism to the lady
shoplifter w T ho expected to get off by ex-
plaining to the S.M. that she had always been
trained to take things philosophically.
* *
“In a medical institution in Paris, it is claimed,
the height of patients can be increased.”
Well, we’ve got institutions in Australia
where people go for a stretch.
* *
“Mr. Baker will probably be given an appoint-
ment in China.”—S.M.H. cable.
Naturally he has studied the problems of
the Yeast.
ONE OF HER TOOLS OF TRADE.
“Too bad you had your tooth knocked out! It makes such
a difference to your appearance.”
“Divil a bit do I care about the appearance, but ’twas
the tooth I used to fold the sheets with.”
SJPARE THE ROD.
“Caning is a bad method of training”— Flynn,
S.M., at Parramatta Police Court.
The thought goes back to ages when
Man’s life was set in train;
To make an Abel citizen
It’s no good raising Cain.
THE TAKING BLOKE.
7 felt when we met the other day
That ’e’d do me. ’E looked that sorter
bloke.
’E ’ad a remarkably tdkin’ way;
You were took by ’im more, the more ’c
spoke.
That ’e’d do me I reckoned from the start;
And when ’e asked me for ’arf a quid,
To turn ’im down I adn’t the ’eart.
I reckoned ’e’d do me, and cripes ’e did !
M. G.
THE WEIGHT-BUTCHER.
“In spite of ‘certified scales’ I am sure this
butcher makes a regular £lO per week out of his
underweight.”— -Sun correspondent.
My faith in butchers’ faith is gone.
Their cunning fills me with amaze.
Here’s one who waxes fat upon
The even Tenner of his weighs.
H. M.
AT THE A.D.C.'s EMPLOYMENT
BUREAU.
“Lord Bledisloe, the new M.L. Governor-General,
was busily engaged at the War Office on Wednesday
selecting aides-de-camp.”
Scene: Room at War Office.
General Brassat (to applicant) : “What
service have you had?”
Captain Thruster: “Wounded on the
Somme in ’l7 ; M.C. May ’IS.
General B.: “I said what service. Have
you ever helped at a Hoopla stall?
, Capt. T. ( baffled) : “A
what, sir?”
General B.: “Meanter
say you don’t know what a
Hoopla stall is?”
Capt. T.: “I’m afraid I
don’t.”
General B.: “Get out!
(To Sergeant-Major Howl)
Next applicant, Sar.-Major.”
Captain Meek (win-
somely) : “I just know I’ll
do, General. I feel it. A
kind of instinct. I adore
bazaars. I would be quite
happy attending garden fetes
and Boy Scout corroborees
every day of my life. As
for helping to open Parlia-
ments and Homes for De-
crepit Seamen —why, that
kind of work gives me posi-
tive thrills!”
General B.: “Do you
want to marry an heiress?”
Capt. M.: “In point of
fact —er —no. I am —er—
already en”
General B.: “Get out!
Next applicant. (As Captain
Mushington-Broom enters )
What service?”
Captain M.-B.: “Lived 16
years in a cathedral town,
and was never so much as
threatened with a slander
action. Known in 11 parishes
as ‘The Sale-of-Work Demon.’
Adept at every kind of ball-
room dance from the period
of the lancers onwards.
Champion knitter and tatter
of the Eastern Counties. A
semi-finalist in the 1923
Ilalma Cup tournament”
General B.: “Engaged?”
Capt. M.-B.: Certainly
not!”
General B.: “Any profes-
sion or calling?”
Capt. M.-B.: “I have never worked in my
life.”
General B.: “Any money?”
Capt. M.-B.: “None whatever.”
General B.: “Check his statements. Sar.-
Major, and if they’re correct sign him up
for a three-years’ tour of that little place
where the geysers are. Can’t remember its
name at the moment. Next applicant.”
BLOGGS.
POLITICS IN THE HOME.
Bragge, ex-M.P., found it hard to settle
down to the old routine on the farm. When
asked to give a
hand with the milk-
ing he pointed out
that a sufficient
number of cows had
not been yarded to
form a quorum.
When the question
of wielding the axe
was debated he ap-
plied the gag, and
when members of
the House asked him
to define his attitude
towards ploughing
he demanded notice
of the question and
then adjourned. He
granted himself
Supply out of all
available revenue,
and made his
Liquor Bill the
Standing- Orders of
the day. Mrs.
Bragge tabled a
pile of other bills,
arid requested that
they be treated as
urgent measures,
but he ruled that
she be no longer
heard, and the
House rose in dis-
order. lie claimed
Parliamentary privilege when abusing his
mother-in-law; however, old Mrs. Bragge’s
accuracy of aim cured him of that habit.
It was in attempting to force a second Bill
of Supply through that he crashed. The
bailiff voted solidly with the Opposition, and
Bragge was ejected from the House. Mrs.
Bragge is now seeking a dissolution.
D. McM.


sdf
w
mH
LABEL
' OLD SCOTCH l
WHISKY
f
&
iJ/J/lA
f
tins"
4
mi
ff
&*p
«s>
Al
11 ii ii iiiRiii i i ill ■ ■ * J* •
'IIINI
w
1:
iiiaiiim*i*’*
uBsauBm
iiiliiiiii iiiiiiiiliiim
mm
••SSiSSjjjijjiil*** !!!!!!!S'SSSl|Stt*9*'!ls::
!!!!!!!!!!!! h s
iuniiii'*!!!!!! 1 .!!!!;!
| HIS RENOWNED
BRAND OF OLD
SCO TC H WHISKY IS
NOW OBTAINABLE IN
SCREW-CAP BOTTLES,
WHICH HAVE THE
FOLLOWING ADVANTAGES:
1. Corkscrew unnecessary.
2. Simplest fitment for
opening and closing.
3. Leakage impossible.
4. Faulty corks eliminated.
The
NEW SCREW CAP
IS
SIMPLE,
SAFE &
SECURE.
94
QUAUTY BOTTLED
UNDER. THE SUPERVISION
eiISTOMS’
tpATOM)


y.
Foods
for your Xmas Trip
REX Red.y-Mele
As the name implies, this is A READY MEAL of choice beef and
vegetables. Heat the lib can thoroughly in boiling water, and you
have a delicious dinner. For a large number of persons the best
way is to turn out the contents of the required number of cans iuto a
pot. In no time there is ready a savoury meal.
REX-PYE
lib and £lb cans.
There is an enormous sale throughout Australia for REX-PYE —and
no wonder ! It is all choicest meat surrounded by clear jelly. The
aroma and flavour are delicious. It is essentially a cold dish for
lunch, and you can cut it into slices for wholesome tasty meat
sandwiches. It is also fine served hot.
REX K-be-B
A delicious dish of kidneys, beans and bacon, in lib and cans.
SAUSAGES
REX Lorraine Smoked Sausages, in lib and |lb cans,
REX Pork Sausages, in lib and |lb cans.
REX Beef Sausages, in lib cans only.
CHOICE SOUPS
lib and |lb cans.
REX Consomme Soup REX Mulligatawny Soup
REX Pea Soup REX Vegetable Soup REX Ox Tail Soup
OTHER DELICACIES
REX Pork and Beans in Tomato Sauce
REX Baked Beans in Tomato Sauce
REX Devilled Kidneys
REX Euncheon Cheese in tins and jars
and the other famous REX Sandwich Delicacies.
REX Fry and Bacon
REX Pig Feet
REX Pork Brawn
REX Ham Pate
REX BUTTER
REX DRIPPING
Specially ask your grocer for
lever lid tins. These keep your
butter and dripping fresh and
choice throughout the trip.
sd
YOUR XMAS HAM
Let it be Rex and you are sure
of a mild, sweet, delicious ham.
A Rex ham-cured shoulder is
very choice too. And do not
forget Rex mild-cured bacon.
Order now.
FOCGITT JONES PTY. LTD.
(Division of Unihed Provisions Lhd.)


<b
&
h
\0
■
'C'
THE MARK Of THE CCNUINI
“ Your Radio Pleasure depenas
on the Speaker” The ONLY
Speaker guaranteed against hum
or rattle for the life of the Speaker.
That is the X-Core Dynamic Speaker—
made by Magnavox, of course —for only
Magnavox may make a Dynamic Speaker.
Obtainable all Radio Dealers.
Battery operated D.C. Units , £5//5/-
A . C. operated from House Mains. A. C. Units , £7 // 5/-
u
H
m
K-
MS
S,A
MmEs
Cruising to
JAVA and
SUMATRA
First-class round fare to Belawan
Deli (Sumatra), calling at Java ports,
Singapore and Penang: From Brisbane
and Sydney, £99; from Melbourne,
£lO5.
The K.P.M. invites you to wonder and wander in Java and
Sumatra, islands of exotic attractions.
Glorious days at sea, the comforts and conveniences of the
great Liners Nieuw Holland and Nieuw Zeeland will be a
delightful holiday for you.
The steamer is your hotel for the round voyage of seven weeks.
Full particulars from
royal packet navigation company
(K.P.M. Line),
255 George Street, Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., 11l William Street, Melbourne; Dalgety & Co., Brisbane;
Elder, Smith & Co., Adelaide and Perth.
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
St zuM
kitzs
Kitz’s Sparkling Cider
The finest drink with meals, as it
aids digestion and prevents acidity.
Dr. D. T. Fernie, of London, states: —
Cider is not only the most wholesome and
hygienic of all drinks, but is a preventive
against and a remedy for
Stone, Gravel, Gout, Obesity
and Fermentative Indigestion.
Agents in all States.
HEAD OFFICE: MELBOURNE.
Pen and Picture
The
STATE
THEATRES
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
Shadow Shows
“The Last of Mrs. Cheyney,” done by
M.-G.-M., is an excellent talkie. It has all
the necessary ingredients—good settings,
picturesque characters and, above all, dia-
logue that is dialogue. It is, of course, as
all Frederick Lonsdale is, an entertain-
ment rather than an attempt to hold the
mirror up to life, and as such it gains virtue
from the fact that the settings are “stagey.”
As a movie it is not unfolded quite as the
play was, but the drawing-rooms, the garden
and every other place where the alleged Aus-
tralian woman moves in her half-hearted
attempts to pinch' some society jewels might
have been borrowed after a legit, presenta-
tion. When the play was done at Sydney
Cri. this Showman felt that Renee Kelly,
the Mrs. Cheyney of the day, was not as
seductive in the part as the plot demanded,
and neither is Norma Shearer,' in spite of
her wearing dresses that are merely aids to
the imagination as far south as the hips.
George Barraud, who was Lord Dilling in the
Australian production, is even better in the
movie as Charles, the: genius behind the
crooks who, posing as butlers and other
servants, have Mrs. Cheyney as their figure-
head, and flop in their scheme when the
lady they elevated to the post from London
shop-drudgery suffers an attack of _ con-
science. The careful production has tip-top
photography, the acting is very good indeed
and the picture altogether is well worth hav-
ing a hear at.
In “High Treason” (British Dominions
Films) the very last word in Peace Propa-
ganda is let loose. The story, based on a
play by Pemberton Billing, holds a prophecy
of life in 1940, with science so far advanced
that mechanism holds the floor. The world
has but two nations —Europe and the Fed-
erated States —and these are plunged into
BENITA HUME, in
“High Treason.”
war. All the
d e s t ructive
elements t o
be perfected
in the future
are brought
into action to
destroy and
kill, so that
he 1914 scrap
pales into a
c ommonplace.
The blowing
up of the
Channel tun-
nel and the
“Palace o f
Peace” are
two fine bits
of vividness.
The talkie
spends its
brighter mo-
ments in cab-
aret towns
and other
such wonder-
fully unknown pleasures. A point made where
most movie producers are careless is in
dress fashions —plus-fours for the ladies, and
men Adopting a sort of toreador mode. Another
striking- feature is that the players speak
English. The lead, Benita Hume, was in
“The Constant Nymph,” and is to appear in
a talkie version of Scott’s “Lady of the
Lake” and also in “The Valley of Death,
a flicker presentation of “The Charge of
the Light Brigade.”
In producing “Thunder” M.-G--M. tried
hard and yet failed to succeed in making a
bad picture. Its story is dreadful. The theme
concerns a U.S.A. railway _ engine-driver
obsessed with the idea of keeping the trains
running. He will take any risk to get lus
train through on time, has instilled “train”
into one son, and is doing his best to get
it into the other, who is fireman on the
engine his dad drives. The inevitable “love
interest” is introduced when a cabaret
dancer who has to get into the city in
time for her turn pinches a ride in the
loco. The affair of her and the second son
has developed to the stage of her going to
the home occupied by the old man, both
sons and the “train” son’s wife, when this
latter son, after having done a long shift, gets
an urgent duty call. Apart from saying that
“the trains must be kept running,” the old
man takes no part in the son’s answering
the duty call; yet, when that son is killed,
the other son, between stoking the engine,
so goads the old man with the charge that
he was responsible for the death that the
old boy hits him and knocks him out. Their
engine, moving at 70 or more per hour,
crashes with another, and dad and son go
to hospital, after which the living son leads
a gay life gorging on coffee. Meanwhile, the
neglected cabaret girl has gone on tour, and
so, apparently, has the wife of the dead
son. By astonishing, coincidence the two
women get locked into a flood-swept town,
and by coincidence that is not astonishing
but simply miraculous the train that goes
to their rescue is driven by the original old
man and the' living son. That is a rough
idea of the story, which wanders so far and
so crudely that it would take a volume to
hold a summary of it. What saves the pic-
ture is the splendid railroad effects. It is
not a talkie, but these effects are given with
sound accompaniment which is convincing
and arresting. The engines ploughing through
snow and water are tip-top photography.
Into their regular offering of “the world’s
events in sound and sight” the Fox Movie-
tone people have introduced the kookaburra.
Johnny is not the success he might be.
Canned, his voice is raucous, grating and
rather unpleasant. He is all right for
Australian consumption, because he gives a
rough idea of what he really is like, and
doing that seems to ensure the success ot
a good many talkies. Much better by the
same exploiters of Australian atmosphere is
a sound 1 picture of the sheep business, begin-
ning with masses of jumbuck going on to
fine shearing pictures, and finishing up in the
Sydney wool sales. We are learning slowly
from U.S.A.; there was a time when we
would have blushed to label these wool sales
“the largest in the world.” Their section of
this news reel, with the benches of reps, ot
all nationalities bidding in various languages,
is as good a thing of the kind as I he
Bulletin has seen.
The Inky Way
“Schnorrer” (B. 27/11/’29), .writing of
the spread of Zionism in Australia, reported
that, having become definitely Zionist, the
Australian Jewish Chronicle liad mopped
up, .among others, the Maccabean.. The
council of the Mlaccabean now writes to
say that so far as it is concerned the state-
ment isn’t true.
“B.B.” ■ The Capricornian, published at
Rockhampton for 54 years, noiv ceases. In
January its place will be taken by tlie
Central Queensland Herald. Some time
back Rockhampton Daily Bulletin, which
also published the Capricornian, purchased
the local contemporary, the News, and its
weekly, the Artesian. The Artesian will
be incorporated in the new weekly. In
its day the Capricornian went into
almost every home in C.Q., but opposition
from city dailies, delivered a hundred miles
out-back on the morning of publication, with
the growth of the North Queensland
Register, published at Townsville, has
pulled down the shutters.
“Ces” : Arthur O’Connor, make-up sub. oi
Melbourne Sun-Pictorial, who moves off the
Inky Way to be the Australian Travel
organisation’s American rep., is to get
£lOOO a year and exes. O’Connor, m addi-
tion to having had all-round newspaper
experience, is an organiser and speech-maker,
ne was W.A.’s London migration rep. for
some years. Keith Murdoch’s right-hand man
in the United Cable Service, and the Fink
journals’ rep. for the first two years of Can-
berra. Two sons are shaping well. Iven,
now an illustrator on Melbourne Herald,
has had caricatures in The Bulletin, and
Noel is an architect.
The Palette
In his rather bewildering 130 at Mel-
bourne Athenaeum John Hennessy evidently
attempts to trace his progress from student
days on. He hangs portraiture, still life
and landscape in oils, black and white, pencil
and pastel. The lot is hung without regard
to merit- —a pity, because a few are not
without it.
The United Arts Club of Adelaide lias, at
the McGrath Gallery, a small memorial show
of the etchings of its founder. Henri van
Raalta, the English genius of Dutch descent
who was in turn curator of Perth and Adel-
aide’s national art collections. He brought to
Australian timber a kind of Rembrandt
touch, and his gum-trees have such individu-
ality that you want to call them by their
Christian names. Power is the outstanding
features of his work; but his mastery of
delicate lines—especially in dry point—is
evident too.
Melbourne’s Little Gallery shows a collec-
tion of etchings, engravings, lithographs,
color and Baxter prints. Against some Aus-
tralian etchers’ contributions are contrasted
English and French, and the local goods
shine in the comparison. The only Whistler
attracts attention because of the name; the
work is slapdash. Victor Cobb’s clear,
decisive bunch of bits about Melbourne are
etched sonnets in comparison. Will Dyson,
John Shirlow, Harold Herbert, Lionel
Lindsay and Thelma Thompson also exhibit
good work. Of the imported, George Soper's
dry point “Boatman” stands out, but Sir
Frank Short, R.A., Sir Seymour Haden and
Salvator Rosa are decidedly not represented
by their best work.
New South Wales Department of Edu-
cation ought to apply for higher screws all
round if it has glanced through “Art in
Printing,” a selection of students’ work
from the art and printing sections of Syd-
ney Tec. It is a first-rate example of print-
ing, and the work of the art students in
design is often original and arresting. One
page locates that elusive person, the author
of “All Quiet on the Western Front.” A
cover design for the war book is said to
have been “drawn by Erich Remarque,
second-year student, Art Department.”
BALLADE OF ECLECTIC EFFORT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Once when requested to transcribe
For one of literary flair
A castigation of the tribe
Who say “Defence is in the Air
I tried to polish the affair
(Though I remained anonymous)
And did not scruple to declare
That two things were synonymous.
I fancied that the diatribe
Would seem more erudite and rare
With such a word, used to describe
Identity of any pair
Of theories; but all my care
Was lost in the pseudonymous
Effusion when they asked where
I found the word “synonymous.”
True art must brook the frequent gibe
Hurled from the twirling swivel-chair,
But. undeterred by hope of bribe,
The poet still may seek his lair
(Probably up the topmost stair)
And sit like Hieronymus, .
With noble heart and tangled hair—
Though these are not synonymous.
Envoy.
Prince, when I find a term so fair
As not to be forgouymous,
No matter how detractors swear,
I’ll make myself synonymous.
N.S.W.
AHAB MULDOON.


Hanking, Public Companies, etc.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 703,125
Ordinary Shares .. .. ..’ 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/-per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian |
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
ollices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can bo obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
m }t
5
fsd
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
, Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
Übe dominion.
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily.
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com*
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion' is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Shipping, etc.
Excursions to HAWAII
The Canadian*
Australasian Line
will shortly commence it s
Summer Excursion Runs, which,
by specially reduced rates, bring
within your reach an interesting
voyage on a large and modern
liner with a holiday to follow in
Hawaii.
This famous little Island of the
South Seas is a cosmopolitan
holiday centre, world-famous for
its endless Summer sunshine, the
matchless surf of Waikiki Beach,
its tropical scenic splendor and its
carefree languorous life.
Sail by the Aorangi or Niagara (via
Auckland and Suva) on either of these
dates: January 9, February 6.
Excursion Rates:
£75 First Saloon £55 Second
Union Steam Ship Co.,
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne
sHI
*ll
I
%
f
£
\sk
1
I®* 1
*
m
r
Lf
v. <//m
w
. M
~sr
wi*
es
SI
m
T
a r^v
BURNS-PHILP
TOURS
JAVA
(The Wonderland
of the East).
OLD BUDDHISTIC AND HINDUISTIC TEMPLES—
NATIVE BAZAARS. EXCELLENT BIG-GAME SHOOTING.
BEAUTIFUL TROPICAL SCENERY.
EXTENSIVE TEA GARDENS. INTERESTING PEOPLE.
Regular monthly sailings by the favorite vessels
“MARELLA” (7500 tons) and “MALABAR” (5000 tons).
The Beautiful Solomons
Full of interest and romance and
situated only seven days’ steaming n.-e.
of Sydney. The comfortable and
popular S.S. MATARAM sails from
Sydney on February 5, and six-weekly
thereafter, visiting 30 picturesque
Ports.
ROUND TRIP 4\ WEEKS.
FARE £4l
Write for Pamphlet No. 5-2/S to
BURNS, PHILP AND
COMPANY, LTD.,
7 Bridge Street,
Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
fsd
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150.000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929, £90,806,297.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Tkreadneedle St., E.C.2.
588 Blanches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Queensland’s Largest
Home-Read Daily
N e wspaper
Xshe
“BRISBANE COURIER”
Unequalled in circulation the “Brisbane Courier” gives to
advertisers the most effective coverage in City, Suburbs and
Country.
Tested campaigns have proved the Courier to yield 75 per
cent, of returns.
Carries more advertising than two other Brisbane dailies
combined.
FIRST IN CIRCULATION, COVERAGE, ADVERTISING
AND INFLUENCE.
Published by the Brisbane Newspaper Co., Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane
N.S.W. Rep.: Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85007.
Shipping, etc.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
iEuripides . . 15,000 tons, Jan. 28
*Nestor . . 15,000 „ Feb. 24
fßunic . . 12,500 ~ Feb. 25
IDemosthenes 11,500 „ Mar. 15
Ceramic . . 18,500 „ March 25
♦First class only. t“Cabin” class only.
{First and third class.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
1 Joint
Agents
Splendid Cheap Service
Via Suez Canal.
FAST OIL BURNERS
Fares to London from £3B.
To Colombo from £22.
Special Excursion Return Tickets to
Colombo issued from Sept, to Feb., £32-
P. 8 0. BRANCH SERVICE
SPACIOUS DECKS—DECK CABINS—EXCELLENT
MENU—CINEMA—DANCE MUSIC REPRODUCED
WITH ELECTRIC AMPLIFIERS—
CANVAS SWIMMING BATH
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 86701
BRISBANE,viaBYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/.
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CIIA LUIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart ParkerLyy
Magnifloent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LI MITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
WITH
his purchase of space
in “The Telegraph”
the advertiser acquires
the permanent interest
of an organisation
containing experts on
every aspect of the
printing business.
AND-
both reader and pur-
chaser appreciate the
workmanship.
The Telegraph
Newspaper Co. Ltd.
Queen Street,
Brisbane.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.


INHD OF ROMANTIC
H
m
m
£
&z •
<**■---- ••
/?
* ■
' «IV.
eS
re«i
T€
mm
H
a?/:
raft&Ja
*
w S !
*
@
Zirfrjr*.
mm
'.' -X
MIW
4 'SiOftU
- ;
W?
L\l
_ r- "•:.>■••;. -r.f. :*. *f '■ *' J - - ■; i .'pfc^rri;
Y;- 1 :!:-* yYY Yfjfggpr;
' f yY •'
ms
3$
m
SfT
Y
STS?
/ ■ ---*.
isa
'r. ... • '\
»*v
BERRY --v*! y.-.-afe.
• JSPS
lugjlj -^yyW' l -
-- ,>y
ilg^DCTfa^
'a~ ut,
y
»/'- .r
f ,/••
©
»" /
s j
no is un
OlStiii £ DA 80
DERAL DiSTlllE
LBOUR H C
ONTThtS •• . P«r»*
4
YESTERDAY a land of explorers—to-day
a nation large in the eyes of the
world. Yesterday a land of importations—
to-day a country rich in home production.
And leading in this inspiring march of
progress, one product proved by national
acceptance—OLD. COURT WHISKY. Its
history one of romance—its victory over
importations a tribute to the quality of a
great Australian product.
Quality, more than patriotism, has put
it in its present position, that of the
World’s Purest and the Nation’s Favorite.
Qlic Vorlcfc Purest


The discriminating admire its
dignified style and delight
in its dashing performance
:■ H
1
mm
, .
■
'
1
m
»
fSSBm
i
i
■
ms
PRICES from £5 95
PRICES GIVEN SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR
Convenient Payments can be arranged
on the liberal G.M.A.C. Terms Plan
GENERAL MOTORS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
BRISBANE - SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
Numbered among the Vauxhall
owners are many who have pos-
sessed cars since the early days of
motoring. To-day Vauxhall is
still their choice.
Alike with newcomers toVauxhall
ownership, they find in their cars
a dignified style and appearance
that is most happily linked with
dashing performance.
In the 20/60 Vauxhall Six a new
conception of automotive values
is applied, resulting in smooth
power, speed, flexibility, comfort,
and roadability all so perfectly
balanced as to mark Vauxhall an
engineering triumph.
Vauxhall owners speak of exhil-
arating fourth-gear performance on
hilly roads—ability to idle without
vibration—speedy get-away.
You are invited to arrange with
your local Vauxhall dealer for a
demonstration. Ride in it—drive
it—experience the comfortable
thrill that only Vauxhall’s perfor-
mance can give.
tyfte Improved 20~60
VAUXHALL SIX
its a General Motors car


a®®'
FOR MORE
MILES
TO THE
GALLON
Wholesale Agents and stockists:
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
284 Pitt Street, Sydney.
You must try this
LIGHT BEER
RESCH’S
PILSENER
A Drink to Delight You.
W. W. GREENER
GUNS
M!
Sfo°o
W. W. GREENER LTD., Birmingham
Wholesale Australian Representatives: '
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.,
405-07 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, C>l.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
There are not many good horses about for
the summer meetings. Perhaps the best has
yet to bo seen of Star God. who has Bst.
lib. in the A.J.C. Summer Cup on Boxing
Day, and Bst. 21b. in Tatt.’s Cup on New
Year’s Day. In Maoriland the brother to
Star Stranger (he is by Martian —Star
Lady) was restricted to sprints and middle-
distance events —he won two races at a mile
and a quarter and one at nine furlongs—but
his showings on this side of the Tasman
suggest that he is a real stayer. He looks
a fair thing for the Summer Cup, and he
qERT ’."Vn/HO IS trct maM ? v
£>ERT | " HES THE B\G» MO\SE ~
OF THE LIFE SA>VEgS.
<S\ERt/'&UT HE DDESMT SVRM
“TOO VJELL ? n
&EEIT'/‘bio, H£
S>HfeJsV<. ego- r
might take the double. Rosehill people
expect The Banker, also from Maoriland,
to be a dangerous opponent. With Green-
line (lOst. 61b.) and Raisin (7st. 91b.) re-
presenting his stable, Jim Barden holds a
strong hand in the Carrington Stakes on
Saturday Fancies •
Summer Cup: Star God, 1; The Banker,
2. Sunflare 3
December Stakes: Caravel Boy; next,
Alberic
Carrington Stakes: Raisin; next, Green-
ij n
Tatt’s Cun- Star God 1- Sunflare 2;
BavSwrack V ’
* ’ ‘
. ’ , . , . , ; .. „
A great racehorse and sire headed for the
Elysian pastures last week m Comedy King,
imported with his dam, Tragedy Queen, b.v
Sol Green Foaledl m 107, he won the
Melbourne Cup of 1910, and had earned close
on £13,000 in stakes before being sent to the
stud. Comedy King sired some outstanding
stayers, including Artilleryman and King
Ingoda, winners of the Melbourne Cup m
1919 and 1922. Among other good ones
were Royal Charter and Harvest King.
$ * * *
“P.0.H.” : It was thought that Victoria’s
Hogan Government would make another
attempt before Christmas to pass a Totali-
sator Bill, but the measure was reserved
for the 1930 session. It will have an easy
passage if the Government undertakes to
reduce the income-tax to the extent of the
estimated tote revenue. That will amount
to at least £300,000 the first year, provided
the Government sticks to its 1928 intention
of insisting on the establishment of straight-
out and place machines as in Westralia. The
Westralian Government got £57,899 from the
tote last year, and the population at the
end of the twelvemonth was only 410,000,
while racing is restricted to Saturdays and
public holidays. The Vic. population is just
on 1,800,000, and there are races nearly
every day in the week.
s|i * * *
“Retired Urger”:A fine old classical
phrase connected with the so-called sport
of kings was mouthed in Brisbane recently
during the sittings of the Queensland Rac-
ing Commission. A witness referred to an
instance he had detected of “flying the
pigeon,” and both the Commission and the
Bar table were gravelled by the expression.
The practice has sunk into obscurity with
many other time-honored observances. To fly
the' pigeon means to arrange with the clerk
of the scales to falsify the weight carried by
the outgoing or incoming jockey.
* * • * *
“Northallerton”: British racing writers
are arguing the case of Shaun Gollin, a
possible candidate for next year’s Grand
National and the winner of many big jump-
ing races in Ireland. Shaun is registered as
being by an unknown sire, his dam being a
thoroughbred marc. There is a close parallel
in the case of Thormanby, winner of the
1860 Derby. He appears in the Stud Book
as out of Alice Hawthorne “by Windliound
or Melbourne.” No one was able to probe
the lady’s guilty secret, so the blame was
allotted to the only two sires who could pos-
sibly have been responsible. Thormanby
complicated matters by refusing to look like
either of them when he grew up.
* * *
“Tuart”: P. A. Connolly, who won the
Melbourne Cup with Blue Spec, the Sydney
Cup with Dyed Garments and Lily veil, and
the Doncaster Handicap with Jolly Beggar,
lias re-entered the game in earnest in W cst-
ralia, where he raced on a princely scale
before the war, and monopolised the Perth
Cup for years. He has rarely been without
a horse or two in training, but a succession
of disputes with jockeys, culminating in an
unlucky lawsuit with Darcy, the cross-coun-
try horseman, chilled his enthusiasm for the
sport. After the last Sydney Cup meeting
Connolly bought Colored from Joe Cook
with designs on the Perth Cup. At the same
time ho shipped Bravado to Fremantle, that
English-bred gelding, whom he raced in con-
junction with Hackett, the bookmaker, liav-
ing outlived his usefulness on Sydney
tracks. After doing good work on the
W.A.T.C. course, the pair were taken to Fre-
mantle to completetheir preparation on the
beach, where with half-pace gallops and
swimming horses get uncommonly fit. Colored
whom many Sydney punters picked out as a
likely Metrop. horse, was given Bst 61b. in
tho Perth Cup _ not much of a weight remem-
bering his promising performances at Rand-
wick, and considering that Finsbury, who
, only a mo d e rate, was handicapped at 9st.
He wiU make things interesting for the West-
raiian s teeds if he strikes form. Failing
Colored the Perth Cup may g 0 to Crystal
stream (7st 121 b.), whose dam was Rivose,
one bbe mosb remarkable mares that ever
g a ij o p ec j on the charming Ascot course—she
dead _ heated wit h Eurytlimic, then a three-
year.old in t he Perth Cup of 1919.
. * * * *
' ~ . . .. - .
Swan : Westralia will boast the finest
and best-equipped trotting course in the world
when Brennan Park, East Perth, throws its
gates open on Boxing Night with the New
Year Handicap. The first Christmas lro.-
ting Cup was raced for m 1914, when prize
money was £5OO. The Centenary Clip, which
this year replaces it, is worth £l5OO. One
of the outstanding features of the course,
which is available for day or night racing,
is the new tote; this permits the issue at
any window of tickets for a win or place on
any horse for 505., 10s. or ss. It works in
concert with smaller machines in the Eeger
enclosure. Next March the association will
stage a meeting for which added money will
total £6700.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
That mountain of meat Camera has suc-
ceeded in winning a fight in indisputable
fashion in London, where, he belabored the
six-stone-lighter Max Deiner into insensi-
bility in the sixth round. The pair had met
on a previous occasion, when Deiner, who is
a German boxer of the third class, even in
Europe, won on points. This time he failed
to avoid being caught by the man mountain,
who still shows no indication that lie is
ever likely to learn scientific lighting. How-
ever, he is going to America, where he
should get a few lessons.
»!» *•» ■!*
“Mitt Sliover”: At last American and
British boxing controllers have arrived at
an agreement in the matter of directing
international boxing and championship con-
tests. The agreement, drawn up between
the American National Boxing Association
and the British Board of Boxing Control,
provides for joint supervision. Both will
recognise fines and penalties inflicted by
either on boxers or managers who have
broken contracts or otherwise offended
against the agreed-on mutual regulation of
the game. The combine’s first act was to
declare the world bantam title open.
The Ins and Outs
Victoria won the Sheffield Shield match
with Queensland at Melbourne by 5 wickets,
but till Rigg (79 n. 0.) and a’Bcckett (56)
made a stand for the fifth wicket in the
second innings, things looked blue for the
home side. Queensland made 114 and 158;
Victoria 107 and 168 for 5. The outstand-
ing performance of the match was the fast
bowling of Thurlow, of Queensland. In
Victoria’s first innings he took 6 for 60,
and in the second 2 for 77—-an average of
17.12. It was from his bowling that Wood-
full received a knock which will keep him
out of the game for the rest of the season.
Ponsford failed to get going in either innings
and missed easy chances in the field.
* =i= * *
“Hotham” • Sorrow’s crown of sorrow fell
heavilv on Australia’s head last week, when
the daily press put aside all tales of super-
taxation and industrial unrest to announce
that WoodfuJl had had two bones in his left
hand broken while batting against Queens-
land in Melbourne. The only ray of sun-
shine is contained in the news that the
bowler, Thurlow, also hit Ponsford and
several other batsmen. If we have really
discovered one of the old school of pitch-
short-and-lay- em-out then
even the loss of Woodfull s batting will carry
its compensations.
A .. • a • fi-c* •
/W/ ■T 0r / ll uk'!! A<n N s;
at Adelaide (Allsopp m, McCa e 6. ) x . .
Wales saw then- 1 bowling belted oft the
br th f t"! 1 ’ A , m,, ' ali iEo bJ 7r.«r‘ d ,»i
the second day’s play. Hone (126) and
Pritchard (142 n. 0.) were the highest scorers
Jheii stumps were drawn. but everyone was
delighted to and lie. Bieh . , - -
. in , ? score of 364 2 . . . 1
shaping m hrs very best form. The inclusion
of tins great batsman and) \ „ -
fieldsman m the Australian L ever , 1 ~ .
five. Our fielding m the big •
season has been shocking and s _ P |
would give a much-needed P * • .
the_ slovens in the field ‘ -
claims on batting alone. ;
* „ , ", , " ..
‘‘Basin”: Gilligan s men had none the
best of it in their preliminary match m
Maori! and against Wellington M.C.C. s
first knock of 166 was topped by Welling-
ton’s 242. The visitors’ second try was
better realising 293. After a bad start
Wellington had 9 wickets gone with
59 to win. Dempster, who was in England
with the last All Black Eleven, was 50 n.o.
when rain compelled the drawing ot the
match ; McLeod, who partnered him, was
21 n.o.' and the pair looked like seeing the
„ a me out Nicholls, who took 11 wickets foi
79, W as the master-bowler of the match, and
lived up to his English reputation.
* * *
“Tenakoe”: Maoriland’s joy at the fine
financial results of the matches against the
Gilliganites in Australia (B. 18/12/29) has
been tempered by the tender mercies ot the
Australian Taxation Department. The total
to be handed to the Dominion when the
Brisbane game was done and over was
£2706. The T.D. has mercilessly demanded
4s. in the £. M.L. is appealing to the Federal
Government. The hold-up, while, possibly
good business, is certainly not cricket
“S.T.S.”: Clem Hill came out of his
cricket retirement for one afternoon to play
for the press and racing officials of S.A.
against th 6 Adelaide jockeys. He Avas bowled
for 9 by the light-weight Medhurst, who took
3 for 9 and retired after hitting up 50. The
official side made only 55 between them;
the boys 210. , ...
“Shrewsbury”: An attractive inter-State
match is the annual fixture between Mel-
bourne and Sydney Grammar Schools.
Flayed this year in Sydney, it drew the usual
large and appreciative gathering, and was
responsible for some interesting cricket. Syd-
ney won by an innings and 14, scoring 203,
while Melbourne could do no better than
117 and 72. Dick, a fast-medium right-
hander, did the damage to Melbourne, taking
10 for 48 in the two innings. He was ably
helped by Neale, whose figures were 5 for 40.
*‘* * *
“Bowen Park”: The match between
Queensland and Sydney Universities in Bris-
bane ended in an easy victory for the visitors,
who won by an innings and 307 runs. The
outstanding performance was that of the
famous Waratah full back, Alec Ross, wlio
smote up 153 out of the N.S.W. total of 551
in one day. Queensland made 77 and 177,
Ross taking 3 for 57 in the match. It
seems a pity that this punishing hitter and
splendid fieldsman cannot find a place in
the N.S.W. Sheffield sides. He could be
counted on to rattle the darned dry bones
that often make these games a weariness to
the watcher.
(Continued on page 31.)
“Hecli, Sirs” : Dunedin, that corner of a
southern land that shall be for ever Scot-
land, is going into training for a braw
Scots nicht early in February next. The
occasion is the celebration of the Caledonian
Bowling Club’s jubilee. The fiery cross
has been sent out summoning all old members
of the club to report, with their A22 forms
properly filled in, to the secretary at
Dunedin by Feb. 8 at latest.
* * *
“Shinty”: The N. S. Wales women hockey
players have been hard at work raising
the State quota of £700 toward the cost of
sending a team to the Empire tournament in
South Africa next year. So far there is
£400 in the stocking, and it is desired to get
the balance in before next season commences.
The girls have gone to all sorts of extremes
short of bushranging. They are threatening
to repeat an amateur theatrical performance
with which money has already been ex-
tracted. If this doesn’t make some of the
backward subscribers get out their cheque-
books nothing will.
SING A SONG OF RACE DAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sing a song of punters,
Pockets full of cash ;
Fout and twenty thousand
Out to cut a dash.
When the betting opened
They backed ’most everything;
Wasn’t that a dainty dish
To set before the Ring?
When the race was over
“What was that?” they said;
“Never heard its name called....
The favorite was dead.”
Sing a song of punters
Pushing on to trams,
Four and twenty thousand
Dashes, blanks and damns;
Ninety-seven bookies
Buying cars —and hams !
VICTORIA.
MACESS.


H
' '
HB
i
1
I
■
■ill
mmmam
ms
y
s
S
a
m
■HI
-
/
*■
:iy
r
jjjpijP
■
m :
■:V X "'
fflggm
II
M
n
I
■
I
9
:
M
B
&
W
WWWP'
£9
1
rl
<N.
■
*&**«
H
V
?
rmd better
Crack—three more is added to the score and the
game is won. It’s the same with Country Life.
The extra three that come in your eighteen-
penny tin, make these the winning cigarettes.
And that s apart from cork tips and the perfect freshness of a
new blend of the finest Virginian tobaccos.
Also In 11/ts of
15 fitrl' ,
and in tins o£
50 and 100
COUNTRY LIFE
CORK. TIPPED VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
Made inyour own country at the Garden Factory. “ Raleigh Park", by W. D.&H. 0. Wills (Australia) Ltd..


«ai
0
FORSTER’S ADJUSTABLE STEEL
STRONGER THAN WOOD
HANDSOME AND BUSINESSLIKE
Forster’s Steel Shelving is proving ideal equipment in
• Factories, Wholesale and Retail Stores,
Motor Supply Houses, Banks, Libraries,
Hospitals, Book Shops, Music Shops,
Offices and Strongrooms.
Forster’s Adjustable Steel Shelving saves space, time, loss from fire,
to the storage of any line of business, and will last indefinitely. II
easily as other furniture and be adjusted as required.
Suggestions, Drawings, Quotations on request.
SHELVING
pests; is adaptable
can be moved as
Steel Storage Cabinets
Excellent for keeping hospital
and office supplies, books,
records, papers protected
against dust, damp and vermin.
Fitted with keys all different.
These cabinets are made 4 for
anything needing extra
security.
MARY ANN
STREET, ULTIMO, SYDNEY.
’Phone: M 4247
(3 lines).
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: In spite of the fact that the
State and Australian championships to come
should offer plenty of chances for Davis
Cup aspirants to show their form, the selec-
tors have announced that they intend to hold
trial matches in the new year before corn-
in''- to a final decision. Their aim is to get
together another doubles pair in addition
to” Crawford and tlopman, who may con-
sider themselves as practically selected. Aus-
tralia will again play in the European zone,
and as this should give them a chance to
work up form at Wimbledon and in the
French championships, a repetition of the
disastrous defeat at the hands of Italy in the
opening round two years ago is not likely.
# * * *
“Cut Shot”: The discards for the Davis
Cup team are to be mollified by a jaunt over-
seas sometime in February, Maoriland hav-
ing asked for a visit from an Australian
tennis team. It should be a pretty powerful
one, too, since this country probably pos-
sesses a higher percentage of really first-
class players than any of its contemporaries,
as Jean Borotra was quick to point out
when here. Only four will go to Europe for
the Cup, and, whoever they may be, several
of those left behind can be counted as of
little inferior quality.
* =!= * *
“Selina Swattit”: A most momentous
matter was brought up at a recent meeting
of the N.S.W. tennis association, when some
of the lady players in the recent Melbourne
tourney complained of the criticisms in-
dulged in by the press. One complainant
said the despicable attitude of the insolent
hirelings of the Inky Way had put her right
off her game. I gather that she hadn’t even
the heart to make a face at the umpire when
tie gave incorrect decisionsalso that the libel
had affected not only individual players,
but had ruined the team work and camara-
derie for which aggregations of women
athletes are so renowned. I have had ex-
perience of the same thing. One creature
who writes for the social columns of a Syd-
ney rag described me as playing in a white
“calico” frock, whereas she well knew that
it was Belfast linen at 80s. a yard. I am
waiting to catch the cat in the tea-room
at Kushcutters some day and spill the cream
jug over whatever atrocity she may be wear-
ing.
* * * *
“Let” : Johnny Doeg, the youthful Califor-
nian who all but beat Tilden in the American
singles and won the doubles with Lott, is,
like his countryman Maurice McLouglilin,
once well known in Australia, a terrific
server. He has a curious habit of keeping-
up a running conversation with himself while
playing, alternately cursing himself or express-
ing approbation, according to the quality
of his shots. This is a refreshing change
from the usual crack player, who invariably
distributes his curses among his partner, bis
opponent and the umpire, and keeps the
praise for himself. Doeg, got his grounding-
in the game from his aunt Mrs. Bundy, who,
as May Sutton, won the English women’s
singles in 1905-07.
The Watermen
“Hawthorn”: The Victorian Rowing
Association’s attempt to hold the State cham-
uion fours on Lake Colac ended in a wash-
out, much to the disgust of all concerned.
Seven crews with their boats travelled to
the rendezvous to find that a howling wes -
erlv gale made rowing impossible. -there
was nothing for it but to return to Mel-
bourne, where the matter was fought out m
heats on the upper reaches of the forsaken
Yarra. In the final, Mercantile won from
a country club, Rutherglen Lake, by three-
quarters of a length, with Melbourne third.
C N McKay stroked the winning ciew
ably, allowing Rutherglen to row itself out,
when he brought his men along in an irre-
sistible finish.
* * * *
“Dot”: The Australian University Sports
Association will hold the 39th annual Uni-
versity eight-oared race for the Oxford and
Cambridge Cup on the Swan. The event is
scheduled for May 31 and all States except
Queensland will be represented. W.A. won
the cup at its first entry in 192 < at Penrith
on the Nepean, and successfully defended
it in 1928 at Mannum on the Murray, but
lost it on the Yarra this year. In the tace
of many difficulties, the W.A. Uni. Boat Club
has erected a fine shed on Matilda Bay, near
the main entrance to the new University at
Crawley.
“Blade”: Sydney’s historical regatta on
Port Jackson on Anniversary Day is pro-
bably the most varied event of its kind m
the world, comprising as it does races tor
all classes and conditions of rowing, as well
as sailing contests. This coming year the
regatta will be marked by the revival ot
what used to be the principal feature of the
programme—the professional sculling handi-
ln the days when Australia held the
world’s championship for professional scull-
ing, all the giants from Bill Beach down
or up turned out in the race. Later when
interest in professional sculling died, the
item was dropped out of the programme.
Ten entries have been promised for the race,
which carries a prize of £lO for the winner,
plus a pair of outrigger sculls presented by
George Towns.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Adelaide” : Two Adelaide undergrads have
plaved an all-day match that is easily a
local record. This Marathon affair started
at 20 to 5 a.m., ended at 10 to 6 p.m.,
covered seven rounds and (it is estimated) oO
miles. The play all through a _ cold and
o 'usty day was remarkably consistent; in
fact, lan McLachlali did his last four holes
in 15, bogey being 18. Best round 81, aver-
age a trifle under 80. W. M. Morgan won
three of the rounds, with 85 his best and
average 89.
“TheMcHaggis” : An American account of
a golf match played under electric light
reminds me. The Laird of Deoch an Dhoris
quarrelled with the Master of Ferintosh over
their respective skill at golf and a match over
nine holes was arranged forthwith. As it
was pitch dark, the balls wore given a ccst-
ing of luminous paint. The pair were square
at the last. The Master sank his putt, but
when the Laird did likewise it was found
he had played a glow-worm which lie had
mistaken for his pill. The Master claimed
the match, and the matter went to St.
Andrews. The gods finally decided that
the Laird must be disqualified under special
Rule 8 for match play competitions:- A
player shall hole out with lus own ball at
every hole.” Obviously the glow-worm was
not 'a ball nor was it the property of the
Laird.
* * * •
“Cranoustie”: The French are supposed
to be chivalrous as regards the female of
the species, but the records of the recent
French open golf championship go to dis-
prove the contention. Genevieve le Dorff
the very name carries a whiff of old
W. BOOTH, the well-known N.S.W. trainer,
who has blossomed out again o f late .
with one or two good ones, including
Caravel Boy.
romance —who is described as the only
woman professional golfer in Europe, entered
for the event, but was ungallantly knocked
out in the first round. Can anyone quote
another example of a professional golferess?
The nearest to it I can get was a stout
old girl whose husband was professional
at Stirling (Scotland) municipal links in
the long ago. She helped the old man to
re-press gutty balls and mend clubs, and, if
properly approached, would dole out an
excellent dram at 3d. a time.
* * * *
“Baffy” : Next year’s Kirk-Windeyer Cup
has been listed for mid-April on the
Shirley links at Christchurch (M.L.). This
match will be the fourth of the series, which
has suffered in reputation somewhat by the
failure of several of the States to enter, or
their inability to send their best sides. The
opening match in Sydney in 1927 was won by
a powerful M.L. combination. Next year
Victoria and Queensland failed to toe the
mark, and, to the utter astonishment of all,
N S.W., which had sent over a very scratch
side, regained the Cup at Wellington (M.L.).
The Ma State repeated the trick in Melbourne
this year, and is thus two up on the All
Blacks. * *
“The Mcllaggis” : In these days of indus-
trial upheaval the golfer is presented with
his own peculiar problems, as recent turmoil
among the Sydney caddies has evidenced.
At many of the clubs members with more
brass than consideration for their fellows
pay the super-caddies extravagant round
fees. Every golfer recognises the value of
a lad who not only kicks his ball surrepti-
tiously out of a bad lie, but is prepared to
swear that his employer’s pill is the best
and newest of the two or three lying con-
tiguous. At the same time, there are limits,
and members of many clubs are beginning
to ask that the fixed rule of the Royal Syd-
ney Club be universally adopted. Under this
caddies are graded, and are engaged on pay-
ment for a ticket, on which is set out the
maximum private tip members are permitted
to hand over.
* * * *
“Fore” : It will be interesting to find out
how many Australian golfers intend to set
sail for Britain with the coming golf season
in view. If Ivo Whitton doesn’t make an
early start after his wonderful form of last
• year he should be forcibly deported with
orders not to return until the British open
and amateur events have been decided. Rufus
Stewart’s attention might be called to the
professional championship in the same way.
v The open is to be played at the Royal
Liverpool’s Deeside course at Hoylakc, pro-
bably the stiffest in the world, starting on
June 16. The amateur event will begin
on the new course at St. Andrews on May
26, so there is not too much time for Aus-
tralian aspirants to get properly acclima-
tised. The Sf. Andrews whisky especially
takes a lot of settlimr down to.
* * * *
“Cranoustie”: St. Andrews, in giving its
consent to the steel shaft (B. 11/12/29),
has set the professionals in a sad quandary.
The Australian pro. is not likely to be much
affected, for though he is usually an expert
club-maker he does not depend so entirely
on his craft as does the average British
professional. Since their American confrere
has long abandoned club production, the
steel shaft, which has now been in use for
some years in the States, does not worry
him. At the same time, it does not seem
that the coming of the steel implement is
going to affect the sale of the wooden clubs,
the repair of which is such an important
item to the minor British professionals.
Not one of the world’s leading players in
America or elsewhere lias abandoned the
hickorv for the steel. It looks as if the his-
tory of the steel-framed, wire-strung tennis
racquet, which was going to sweep the asli-
and-gut contraption off the earth —and
didn’t —will be repeated.
(Continued on page 39.)


****
*s»»2
fil!
r*»i
•*»2
iti!
*5*52
»***
r»*i
•»*!
i**s*
*51!2
»***!
»»»!
p!*!
i»»2
511!
**•*
*•l2
»»*
«»*»
Rt
»•**!
S»»l
»**•!
s**
*****
***d
»•*!!
**»*l
»»«*!
i***!
n»45
I
Mm
Mi
Hr
cjaagal
rr-
L ft
tl
rap
In 1
;-S&
§i%
smo
»...
MS
■
—i <•«&
i
CONDITIONS DEMAND
THIS NEW TRUCK
Fleetmaster has been deliberately designed to meet the need for
absolute flexibility, so necessary under modern traffic conditions;
but not only is Fleetmaster easy to handle and efficient in operation
—it is as well able to deliver transportation at the lowest cost
per ton-mile possible. Fleetmaster operating costs add up right
in the profit column.
INTERSTATE AGENTS
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177-185 William Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114 Franklin Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency,
(Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek & Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Way mouth Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Republic Truck Sales Co., Ltd.,
905 Hay Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND:
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki & Gable Streets,
Wellington.
Factory Representatives: W. A. CROWLE LT D., Crowle House, York Street, Sydney.


On aristocracy
STANDING alone on A
AA?pinnacle of excellence,
owing much to inheritance,
English Bone China is the very
aristocracy of table ware. The
world looks to Staffordshire
for the china of gentlefolk. In
what connoisseurs call colour—
rather the very absence of
colour Shelley’s “ Dainty
White ” cups, saucers, plates,
which look white in a snow*
drift, are English Bone China
at its best.
Ask ro sec the latest
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets*
Morning Sets
Dainty White
• China
Nursery Ware
k/ Lucie Attweu
& Hilda Cowham
Domestic Ware
Jelly Moulds
OtTAIHIMC
Caledonian Bowling Club,
Dunedin, New Zealand.
JUBILEE—IBBO-1930
JUBILEE CELEBRATIONS,
FEBRUARY 8-10, 1930.
Old Members of the above Club are requested
to communicate with the undersigned, advising
the dates of their membership, and stating if
they can be present at the celebrations.
L. J. EDWARDS, Secretary,
P.O. Box 229, Dunedin, N.Z.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN METHOD OF
SOFTENING, SPINNING AND TWIST-
ING ARTIFICIAL SILK.
TTIE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
1 No. 20829/25 is prepared to negotiate for
the sale of his rights in the above or for the
granting- of a license to make, use and vend
the invention within the Commonwealth of
Australia on reasonable terms. Particulars
obtainable from Griffith & Hassel, Patent
Attorneys, of 77 Castiereagh Street
Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN METHOD AND
APPARATUS FOR USING TELE-
PHONE SUBSCRIBERS’ LOOPS FOR
TRANSMISSION AND RECEPTION OF
BROADCASTING.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
A No. 11382/28 is prepared to negotiate for
the sale of his rights in the above or for
the granting of a license to make, use and
vend the invention within the Commonwealth
of Australia on reasonable terms. Particulars
obtainable from Griffith & Hassel, Patent
Attorneys, of 77 Castiereagh Street.
Sydney.
Educational.
SCOTCH COLLEGE,
TORRENS PARK, MITCHAM, S.A.
A BOARDING and DAY SCHOOL for
**■ Boys. Headmaster, N. M. G. Gratton,
8.A., Dip. Ed. (Melbourne). Professional,
Commercial and Agricultural Courses.
Prospectus and further particulars may be
obtained from the Headmaster or the Sec-
retary, W. D. 0. Paton, F.C.A. (Aust.),
A.M.P. Chambers, Adelaide.
Legal JVotices.
■"TO ALICK McIVER MORISON formerly
of Townsville in the State of Queens-
land.
TAKE NOTICE that The Australasian
Temperance and General Mutual Life Assur-
ance Society Limited has instituted pro-
ceedings against you claiming an account
of what is due to it under and by virtue of
a certain Indenture dated the Twenty-sixth
day of December One thousand nine hundred
and fifteen made between you of the one part
and it of the other part. Unless you enter
an appearance in the I’rothonotary’s Office
of the Supreme Court in Melbourne on or
before the First day of February One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty the cause may
proceed in your absence and you may be
ordered to pay costs.
DARVALL & HORSFALL,
243 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes .Jurisdiction.
No. 587 of 1929.
BETWEEN GLADYS WALSH Petitioner
and THOMAS WALSH Respondent.
TO THOMAS WALSH late of Henty in the
State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Gladys
Walsh has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
divorce on the grounds that you haves without
any just cause or excuse wilfully deserted her
and without any such cause or excuse left
her continuously so deserted during three years
and upwards. AND TAKE NOTICE that
you are required to enter an appearance to
this suit in the proper office of this Court
on or before the 11th day of April next and
in the event of your not so doing in the
time limited or obtaining- further time the
petitioner will proceed and the suit -will be
heard and determined your absence' notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had upon application to the under-
signed solicitor free of charge.
DATED this thirteenth day of December,
1929.
For the Registrar,
[L.s.j C. K. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
H. Roy Booth, Solicitor, Fuller’s Building,
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 QUEENSLAND.
TO DORIS DINA BURGESS formerly of
Warwick but whose present whereabouts
are unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been
commenced against you in the Supreme Court
of Queensland at Brisbane Number 694 of
1929 by BENJAMIN GEORGE BURGESS
your husband in which lie claims a dissolu-
tion of his marriage with you and by his
petition filed herein he alleges that on or
about the seventeenth day of September
1924 you deserted him without cause and
have continuously so deserted him for a
period of five years and upwards AND it
has been ordered that service of the Writ
of Summons and Petition in this action by
fixing on the notice board in the Registry of
this Honorable Court at Brisbane a copy of
the writ of Summons for service in the
State of Queensland and a copy of the said
Petition and by posting copies of the said
Writs and Petition in prepaid registered let-
ters addressed to you care of your sisters
L. E. Lucas and G. I. Burgess and care of
the Queensland Trustees Limited Brisbane
aforesaid and also by the insertion of this
notice once in The Bulletin a newspaper
published at Sydney in the State of New
South Wales shall be good and sufficient
service of the said Writ and Petition on you.
Tf you desire to defend this action you must
within two months from the last act done
as aforesaid enter an appearance at the
Registry of the Supreme Court aforesaid and
in default of such appearance judgment may
be entered against you.
DATED this twelfth day of December,
1929.
D. M. O’FLYNN
Deputy Registrar.
Hobbs & Caine, Solicitors, Primary Pro-
ducers Bank Building, Queen Street, Bris-
bane ; town agents for Curnow, Stabler and
Somer, of Palmerin Street, Warwick. Solici-
tors for the said Benjamin George Burgess.
t.
7/v7<,
Cigavs
Craig & Aitken
Wholesale
Sydney N.5.W.
If any illustration in Tiie Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Accommodation
160.
Central,
Comfortable,
Convenient,
dMts. G.P.O.
Excellent
Cuisine.
Billiards,
Dancing.
ORIENTAL HOTEL
(No License)
KING’S CROSS, SYDNEY.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET.
TARIFF:
Weekly,
£3/3/- to
£4/4/-
Daily,
11/6 to 12/6.
Room & Il’fast,
8/6 to 9/6
FL2034
F 3575
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Quiet —Restful —Cool —Open to the Summer Sea Breezes. With Private Beach and Amphitheatre
Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service. Spacious Grounds and Garage
Accommodation.
Tariff from 4% guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes’ trip from City by. Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines).
“Macropus”: A commendable communica-
tion has been dispatched by the N.S.W.
Automobile Club to the Windsor Municipal
Council protesting against the infestation of
the roads in that neighborhood by stray
horses and cattle. The thing certainly is
a scandal, and not only at Windsor. Quite
recently an automobilist, engaged in the
praiseworthy and useful task of reducing the
speed record between Sydney and Melbourne,
was seriously incommoded by a number of
sheep being driven along the public highway:
The time is at hand when movements of
of animals of this kind will have to be
conducted by aeroplane. The obstruction of
the public roads and streets by two-legged
pedestrians is maddening enough in all con-
science. When the quadrupeds join in the
absolute limit is attained.
* * * *
“Skid”: A motor school in London has
struck an idea that might well be copied out
here. It has had a short stretch of asphalt
surface laid, which is covered with grease.
Padded walls are on each side, and cars, with
bumper-bars all round are driven on to the
surface and then deliberately put into a
skid. After a course in this skid-school,
the pupil is guaranteed to drive through any-
thing, bar a bog, in safety. The only aid
to motoring lacking seems to be a couple of
agile pedestrians.
v
“Kick Starter”: It is some time since the
Australian motor-cycle world was invaded
by one of those round-the-world parties which
threatened to become a nuisance of the flesh
at the time. A pair of young Englishmen,
Messrs. Gill and Stephens, arrived in Bris-
bane the other day by steamer, that being
the approved method of cycling round the
world, as far as most of the journey- is con-
cerned. They have, however, ridden their
bikes through Europe, Syria, Persia, India
and Burma. Their most exciting adventure
was being shot at by Bedouin bandits. If
the travellers were running with the cut-out
off, like the unknown gentleman who rides
past the writer’s house at two o’clock every
morning, the Bedouins have the writer’s sym-
pathy. They always were rotten shots, any-
way !
* i{s ;Ji ;J-
-“Onehunga”: “Fatty” Lamb, the Vic-
torian cyclist now returned from America
to Australia, did not stop in Maoriland to
meet Hubert Opperman, as was originally
intended (B. 18/12/’29). The youngster
has been signed up to ride in Australia
against Cecil Walker and the visiting Con-
tinental cracks, as well as Opperman when
the latter returns from M.L. Lamb’s cross-
over to the professional ranks was due to
a curious outburst of inter-State spleen. He
had proved himself the finest amateur cyclist
in Australia, and was keenly desirous, of
REG. WEST, the Victorian dirt-track motor-
cyclist, who has been hoisting some new
records on the Exhibition track in
Melbourne.
riding at the Olympiad. Queensland, Vic-
toria and N.S.W. were at daggers drawn
over the choice of representatives. The Vic-
torian-Quecnslgnd combination out-voted the
N.S.W. body (which strongly urged Lamb’s
claims), and decided that Australia had no
cyclists worthy to be selected. Lamb, in
disgust, was forced into professionalism.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: Goulburn Amateur Cycling
Club is one of the most important things of
its kind in N.S.W. There 1 has been all the
more 1 stir because the Amateur Cyclists’
Union has requested the favor of a squint
at the Goulburn body’s books. The State
organisation has the idea that Goulburn
has bben too casual about its issue of open
orders to prize-winners. These are sup-
posed to be utilised for purchasing cups and
similar trophies, but to cash them, or buy
goods with them, is an act of professionalism.
At the present moment there is an atmo-
sphere of recrimination and general blanky
about the situation, while the many metro-
politan amateurs who have ridden at Goul-
burn arc going about with wild expressions
akin to that of the archdeacon who received
the anonymous telegram, “Fly at once; all
is discovered” !
Miscellaneous
“Spinnaker”: Women are invading open-
boat sailing in Sydney, and there is some
talk of staging a special race for female
skippers some time in the New Year, pro-
bably in the 16ft. class. The new idea should
catch on, for the tiller of a 16-footer requires
“hands” as delicate as does the mouth of a
show hack or hunter, and the bare sex, as
it. must be styled nowadays, can show the
he contingent a point or two in that parti-
cular in the majority of cases. There is
plenty of precedent too. for quite a few
girls "about Sydney have been brought up to
the game. One of them, indeed, is the
regular skipper of one of the 16’s in racing
events.
“Barraeouda”: The most innocent am
praiseworthy of recreations, even bowls am
kiss-in-the-ring, bear hidden opportunity
for dissimulation. Take a matter which has
been agitating the bulging bosoms of tin
surf club swimmers of late —the increasing
number of “ring-ins” which are eominj
to light in the carnival competitions. Then
was an outstanding instance at Manlj
(N.S.W.) the. other day, when a persoi
claiming to be a duly qualified club membei
won an important race in someone else’s
name, disappearing as soon as his bona fidet
was called in question. That sort of thinj
is all very well at the dogs or the ponies
to say nothing of the alleged horses, but thal
it should crop up in the supposedly disinter-
ested sport of surfing is surprising, especi
ally as there doesn’t seem to be any money in
the game.
“Splash”: With the warmer weather
N.S.W. swimmers have been limbering u]
and faster times are going on the board
every week. Tli# best performance so far
is that of I). Slieather, of the Spit Club, win
covered 50 yards backstroke in 20 4-ssec.,
beating anything previously done in Aus-
tralia in this style. The merit of tin
performance can be judged from the fact
that the world’s best time for a freestyle
swim over the 50 is Duke Kahanamnku's
22 3-ssec..
“Hotham”: Now that the wrestlers have
departed and the football season has been put
to bed, those Victorians who love thrills are
looking forward to the coming croquet
struggle between M.L. and Victoria,
which begins early in January. No details
of the All Black side have yet been received,
but it may be taken for granted they are the
usual red-hot lot we are accustomed to
expect from the other side of the Tasman.
It only remains to wait and see, breathing
the while the pious aspiration that the
referees will keep a stiff upper lip and see
that the games do not get out of hand.
“Stand Off”: The N.S.W. Rugby League
delegates who butted into the row be-
tween the Brisbane and Queensland Leagues
came to Brisbane, jawed and were stonkered,
to paraphrase a famous report. The B.R.L.
refused to meet them, and apparently per-
sists in its unforgivable intention of turning
amateur. Meanwhile, the Queensland pro-
fessional body, while ardently desiring a way
out of its afflictions, is incensed at the inter-
ference of outsiders. The situation recalls
that which developed when the lodger tried to
throw out the bailiff during his landlord’s
absence. “Infernal impudence,” said the
latter when lie heard of it. “He was my
bailiff.”
* * * *
“Hooker” : It is questionable whether the
proposed fusion of the Brisbane Rugby League
and the Queensland Rugby Union is worth
while. The revived Union produced in a
single season a coterie of brilliant youngsters
fit to take their place in the first Australian
team to send back the All Blacks defeated
in all three Test games. The fusion will
mean that many of the promising Union
players will be relegated to the background.
Queensland, like N.S.W., is manifesting a
profound dislike for the methods of profes-
sional football. The tendency seems likely
to increase in both States. Let the Union
in Queensland build up again on the solid
foundations that have always remained,
regardless of the B.R.L.
* * sS *
“Birkenhead” : When the Briton does take
to anything new he is not a man for half
measures. The tote, adopted recently after
years of hesitation, lias gone far beyond the
scope it enjoys in Australia. There is a
tote at every important golf match, and
even at such flying competitions as the
Schneider Cup; and the turnover on
Soccer football threatens to rival that on
racing itself. Ono big Liverpool proprietary
occupies three buildings, and its wages sheet
carries a thousand employees—mostly girls.
“Long Dog”: Though it was feared that
dirt-track motor-cycle racing would wean
the great heart of Britain from the noble
pursuit of tin-hare racing, so that track
proprietors thought seriously of pawning
their diamonds for a time, the contrary has
proved the case. Official figures for the nine
months ending November 30 show that there
were over a million and a half more enthusi-
asts taking the odds to a ha’penny at the
dogs than there were during the whole of
the previous year. The Greyhound Racing
Society pulled in £1,100,000, of which
£216,309 went in prize money. The figures
indicate that the baby’s money-box and the
gas-meter had a lean time during 1929.
* * * *
“Spike”: The row between the Victorian
and N.S.W. athletic authorities over the
visit of the German and American athletes
(B. 18/12/’29) has been settled out of
court. The Victorians, who invited the team
and paid their fares, have agreed to waive
their claim for half those fares, and will
permit the visitors to show in Sydney for
£2OO down, provided N.S.W. foots the hotel
and travelling bills while in the Ma State.
This has been agreed to, and Sydney athletes
will now have a chance of picking up a few
points by watching one of the finest middle-
distance runners the world has seen in action,
to say nothing of his American confreres.
* * * *
“Blue Chalk”: Don’t forget while admir-
ing Walter Lindrum’s billiard skill under
the conditions of to-day (B. 18/12/’29)
that he doesn’t hold anything like the world’s
record, as stated. That honor belongs to
Australia’s old friend Tom Reece, whose
figures of 499,135 (unfinished) still stand.
Certainly the' rules have been altered since
that was done, but the break was then
made under legitimate conditions, with the
“cradle” cannon. When that was barred,
Thomas responded with 6417 with the
“pendulum” cannon, and that led to the
modern rule limiting the number of con-
secutive cannons. Things will come to such
a pass some day that no one will be allowed
to do more at one stick than to pot the
white. That’ll do me. It’s the one shot
I’m strong on, especially when I don’t mean
to do it.


Without a food your
hair will fall
Modern methods of living make it difficult for
Nature to carry out her work, for we wash
away the natural oil which protects and feeds
the hair.
The lack of this natural oil frequently spells
thin and grey hair, and, often, baldness.
Rowland’s Macassar Oil stimulates the growth
and nourishes the hair while supplying the
necessary oil.
0/ all Chemists,
Stores and
Hairdressers.
Macassar Oil
112 Guilford Street, London, W.C.I,
ENGLAND.
ip.
e?
S 3
o
EVt
Y
E^’ S
vsi&
%
UA V
x
kEVJ
ntSS
VT
fcV£
vv^
X>int' eT
pEO
ait
tfE'*
„ c lndr»S
for
Gl? tS
£2.| 2 I
rO^® 1
fate
®* 10Ce ®S-^ t DE RS
GOP-'
t«V
and
EVE
HI
T H H
%M^- S
hha r
Gate
sM^
B »' es
ciEg
%
a«Q
\MSl'<' e
W 1361
Gitts
ioc
m
tfOW
%
pool'-
uCt^
?J*S
S»
BS
Monday to Friday,
A la Carte Dining and Supper
Service.
Minimum charge 7/6. Dancing till
1 a.m. Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY LATE GALA NIGHT.
Special Table d’hote Dinner, 21/-
Special Supper from 10 o’clock,
12/6; or a la Carte, minimum, 12/6
Afternoon Tea Dansant—
Monday to Friday, 3.30 to 5.30, 2/6
Saturday, 4/-
’Phone M4l 3 I for your reservation.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 200[?] [?]
Bucklery [?] Nunn [?]
[?]
The general public rolled up in force for
the V.A.T.C.’s charity meeting at Caulfield
for the benefit of the Women’s Hospital;
but members of the club and their women-
folk were, as usual on such occasions, con-
spicuous by their absence. Though the rain
kept off, the sky was cloudy and the breeze
wintry, and there was no encouragement
to go outside coats and ensembles in the
matter of attire. The Alston Handicap, a
race for apprentices, was the principal event,
the stakes being, supplemented by a gold cup,
presented by Mrs. J. Alston, president of
the hospital. Lud Mayor Luxton handed
it to 11. W. Morton, owner of Master
Lunette, and W. L. Howson said “Thank
you” for a gold-mounted whip, which was
Mrs. E. Phillips’s prize for the winning
jockey. Amongst those on the lawn were
Mrs. J. J. Brenan, Mrs. T. A. Tabart,
Mrs. Norman Clapperton, Mrs. Chris
Cowper and Mrs. L. Mackinnon, pro
sident of the Children’s Hospital. Mrs.
James Alston, in ensemble of nutmeg brown,
gathered many guests for afternoon tea. The
hospital is expected to be at least £l5OO
richer when the profits are totted up.
War-time memories were exchanged at a
dinner-party given at the Lyceum Club last
week by Lieut.-Colonel T. W. White, the
lately-elected member for Balaclava, and his
wife, at which the guests were the officers
of the 6th Battalion and their wives and
some friends. The battalion colors figured
in the table decorations.
U.S.A. Consul-General Garrels and his wife
were farewelled at a dinner at the. Lyceum
Club given by the E.-S.U. The couple leave on
the third for Tokio. Donald Mackinnon pre-
sided over the board, and among the guests
were, the Vice-Consul for U.S.A., T. H
Robinson, and Mrs. Robinson, also Miss
Buerkin, one of the Malolo tourists, who had
to go into hospital here owing to a knee
injury received during the voyage.
Though the money didn’t come in as
freely as it might have done for the trans-
portation to' the seaside of the women and
children of the Mallee, a good beginning is
being made. On January 6. 40 boys and
the same number of girls, with some grown-
ups, will arrive from the drought-stricken
area. The Catholic Women’s Guild has
invited the boys to Santa Casa, Queens-
cliffe, and sundry people will include the
girls in family picnics on favorite beaches.
The blind children at the R.V.1.8. had a
lovely time at their Christmas party. The
laden tree, 35 feet high, flying the Australian
stars and the Union Jack, was arranged on
the lawn. With its ribbon streamers it looked
like a huge maypole. Each strand served
as a guide to direct one of the sightless
little guests to Santa Claus to receive his
or her gift.
At Kelvin Hall the other night a fountain
radiating rainbow tints and splashing into a
basin filled with pink blossoms was the central
decorative device for the last conversazione
of the Royal Victorian Institute of Archi-
tects —it’s to be merged with the R. Aus-
tralian I. of A. henceforward. President W.
A. M. Blackett handed to architect Alan
Elides, who is the first Victorian to gain
this honor, the bronze medal of the Royal
Institute of Architects. The competitive
designs for the Caulfield War Memorial were
on view, and N6rman Schefferle, the winner,
was among the gupsts, and received con-
gratulations. Students of the Uni. Con.
made music.
Geelong was a-flutter last week over the
knot-tying of Betty, elaer daughter of the
H. A- Andersons, and Robert Jamieson,
laird of the Bolac Plains squattage, in the
Western district. Old Limerick lace cas-
caded over the bride’s white-satin gown with
its crystal-sprinkled georgette train. The
quartette of ’maids struck a Parisian note
with dainty shell-pink draperies, and same
colored hats, with blue ribbons to match
their sheaves of delphiniums. The Eric
Russels’ small daughter Erica and the
Reg Campbells’ little son Neil were in charge
of the bridal draperies. Two hundred guests
made merry at The Retreat in honor of the
union.
A marriage was celebrated at the St.
Ivilda Synagogue between Leonie Levy and
Dr. Zelman Schwartz on Thursday after-
hoon. The fair bride, the younger daughter
of the D. C. Levys, of Prahran, was attired
in a plain white satin gown with long sleeves
and skirt, and white tulle attached to a
circlet of tiny orange buds flowed as veil
and train. She carried a great sheaf of
Christmas lilies. Esther Levy attehded her
sister, her bouquet of cream water-lilies
blending with her primrose moire frock and
felt hat. There were after-rejoicings at
Chastleton.
Mrs. Ernest McCaughan had a bridge
party at her Sandringham home last week
to welcome back to Melbourne Mrs. C. R.
\ . Seaton, who has come from the station in
Rananaland on a visit to her parents, the
Angus McPhails, of Two Bays, Somerville.
Mrs. Seaton brought with her, for introduc-
tion to his grandparents, a baby son.
The Maori!and tour planned by the Eric
Connolly family has been indefinitely post-
poned owing to the breakdown in health
of the head of the house. Medical-knight
Dick Stawell, who is a relation, has ordered
a long spell of peace and quiet for the in-
valid. Daughter Iris, who was thinking of
wedding-bells, has put aside the idea for the
present, and there won’t be the 'usual lavish
entertainment at the Connollys’ Brighton
home to usher in the New Year.
Does anyone know of a lonely girl who
seems likely to be left out of Christmas
gaieties? If so, send her name and address
to the secretary of the Y.W.G.A. with half
a crown, and she will receive a gilt-edged
piece of cardboard, bidding her to dinner
and a party on Christmas Day.
At Mrs. E. A. Shields’s! studio in Collins-
street there is an exhibition of fabrics for
loose covers, upholstery and bangings, and
some very beautiful designs are shown in
linen and cotton. One pattern was taken
from an old sporting print, another from a
cross-stitch sampler and yet another had
its inspiration in French tapestry. The old-
fashioned glazed linens with tiny flowers
scattered over them have their place. Great
favorites in early Victorian days, they are
winning into vogue again. Mrs. Shields, an
Englishwoman with London and Paris ex-
perience, specialises in the selection and
application of such fabrics, and her advice
is valued by many interested in the har-
monious decoration of the home.
A gift with naval associations is being
sent to our former G.-G. Lord Forster by
Lance Randerson, as from one yachtsman to
another. It is a bronze eagle lectern for the
church which Lord Forster has built at
Exbury, England, as a memorial to his two
sons who fell in the Great War. The lectern
will be cast from metal obtained by melting
down turbine plates from the Sydney's
engines.
Mrs. T. B. Slaney, an inmate for some
past weeks of Mount St. Evin’s Hospital,
has been giving her friends an anxious time.
She returned from a trip abroad just in time
for the Cup, and her Paris chiffons were a
feature of the event. With her Colonel and
small daughter Beverley she had just settled
ifa a South Yarra flat.
Edith Lindell, who early in the year set
out to tour Europe with Una Kennedy and
Lorna Liscombe, spent a large slice of her
holiday at a military hospital in London,
encouraging her R.A.F. brother to regain
his health. When doing a stunt his ’plane
crashed into a hill, and he was badly
smashed. HTs sister did not leave him till he
was well on the road to recovery, but she
was able to see a bit of the Old World after
all.
Quite by accident this Page stumbled
across the clever lino-cuts and water-colors
of Mrs. Florence Holman, and sought out
the artist, pic-
tured here by
Lafayette.
Mrs. Holman,
who came from
England a few
years ago, had
her training
at the Lon-
don School of
Art, under
John Hassall.
Her uncle,
Alexander
MunrO, was a
sculptor who
did much work
in collabora-
tion with Ros-
se 11 i. Mrs.
Holman is the
originator of
the quaint
rabbit badge
and toy known
as Benjamin Bob Tail issued by the Coun-
try Women’s Association.
Mrs. Jimmy Dyer, now resident in Paris
is writing a book on the composer Lully,
helped by a leading musical critic of the
gay city. Her flat is described by a
returned traveller as artistic and exotic,
with jade-green carpets, black doors and
much lovely lalique. Lately, Mi-s. Dyer
was responsible for a first performance of
the Gustav Holst symphony “On Egdon
Heath,” at the Pleyel concert hall. The
composer was present, and Melbournites in
the audience included Tommy Cochran, the
G. Gills, Ann Jeffrey, Evaline Syme and the
W. Mortills.
Dr. Isie Younger, who in private life is
Mrs. John Ross, has just welcomed her book,
“Feeding the Child,” for which she secured
publication during a visit to England some
months ago. She has made maternal and
infant welfare her study, and has been asso-
ciated with baby-health centres and clinics
since the first of these was established 11
years ago in Richmond. While in London
she regularly attended the Pritchard Hos-
pital for Babies at Westminster, and Dr.
Pritchard has written a foreword for the
Australian medico’s work.
Aileen Dent lias commandeered the walls
of the Lyceum Club committee room for a
few days to hang about 30 of her landscapes
in oil- and water-color, and a couple of
portraits that are not for sale. Mrs. Brito-
marte James, the president of the Women
Citizens’ Movement, and Mrs. Hylton Dale
are depicted. Among the water-colors are
some peeps at N. S. Wales mountain and
seaside resorts.
A Collins-street shop devoted to household
furnishings has imported something really
new in light shades. They are in the form
of small dogs and made of rows of
narrow ribbon. The pups have big mourn-
ful glass eyes, which when illuminated arc
amber or a deep wine color. The bird ready
to crow is yellow with a flamboyant red
comb. Flowers made of glass and others
whose petals are feathers figure in the dis-
play, which should provide a heap of new’
ideas in the matter of table decorations.
Ann Jeffrey, lately back from European
travel, is looking round the city for a studio
where she may
hang out a
sign as a
teacher of
verse-speaking
and dramatic
art. She is
well known in
Repertory
circles, and
has attended
lectures at
University Col-
lege, Oxford,
and various
other colleges
in her search
for purity of
English dic-
tion. In Mel-
bourne sh(
was a student
at the Rcper
tory Schoo'
under Norman
Simpson. Lafayette made the portrait.
Dr. Allen Robertson and his wife will
have a look at England and the Continent
next year, having booked their passages for
early in April.
Mrs. Harold Brash, who is taking her
daughter Betty to Europe for an educational
gloss, left by the Oransay. Mrs. Andrew
McHarg summoned a few friends to lun-
cheon at the Quamby Club to bid Mrs. Brash
good-bye.
The production of Galsworthy’s “Strife”
by the Art Theatre Players at the Queen’s
Hall was topically appropriate and it drew
good-sized audiences. Director Fowler got
some very good crowd-impressions on the
tiny stage, and George Lomas, as John
Anthony, a typical chairman of directors.
J. Holdsworth Shields, as a workman, and
Mr. Fowler, as leader of the strike, were
well cast. The Players’ two Marjories—
and McLeod —filled feminine roles
capably.
Isobel Biddle is the latest songbird to take
wing for Europe. Her father is making the
trip with her, and she expects to be absent
about a year.
Prime Minister Scullin has paid his wife
a nice little compliment by having one of
her paintings, an Australian bush scene,
reproduced to embellish his official Christ-
mas-card.
A popular innovation on the Orontes is
the, private dining-room, with its one long
table, where a host can gather 16 of his
friends, about him for a special celebration.
The payment of quite a modest fee to the
purser gets you the exclusive use of the
room with special service for one evening.
Another crowded resort, especially in the
tropics, is Cocktail-alley. This commands an
uninterrupted view of the porcelain swim-
ming-pool, and as the pool is almost always
surrounded by mermaids in backless cos-
tumes, the mathematician finds pleasant occu-
pation in working out certain money and
other statistics. F'or instance, assuming
(and this seems established) that the hus-
band is a marine product, how many square
yards of baked back does it take to grow
one?
A mother who has been listening-in to her
brood and her brood’s friends is disquieted.
More and more children, she finds, “don’t
believe in Santa Claus.” And the reason is
interesting. There was a time when Santa
handed out. to most children much the same
toys. None of them expected—or got—-any-
thing expensive. Santa Claus being no re-
specter of persons, that was right. But
the youngsters feel that something is not
right when Santa produces very expensive
toys in great abundance for one household
and something like the old small, cheap lot
for another household; and doubts intrude
where before there was only trust.
A lately-returned Australian, long absent,
describes something like a Musical Festival:
On the anniversary of Schubert’s birth we saw
from the windows of the Hotel Bristol 19,000 people,
Germans, Bavarians, Tyrolese, pass in a great proces-
sion through Vienna. Singing, the men and women,
nine deep, walked, soberly or gaily as the tempo
demanded, along the flower-festooned streets. The
procession started at the Town Hall, and passed
Schubert’s old home. Here and there the Tanks
were broken by bands and by uncovered waggons on
which scenes of peasant life were enacted. Every-
body in the march wore national costume, and the
procession went on from ten in the morning, till
seven in the evening.
Among the returned one’s cherished
memories is of being at the last appearance
of Duse. This was in “Ghosts” ; the actress,
already a dying woman, passed to the
triumph of each night through streets flower-
decked in honor of her return to the stage.
The same home-coming wanderer also heard
the last time they were uttered in public the
golden sounds of the divine Sarah’s voice.
This was in Paris in the Bernhardt theatre.
Dr. H. B. Devine and his wife are off in
January for seven months of European
travel. The doctor, who has a big rep. as
a surgeon, and therefore prefers to be called
Mister, in the Harley-street manner, means
to peep into operating theatres, and collogue
with his brethren of the saw’ in London and
on the Continent.
Anita Loos is again in the limelight,
She has been collecting a. trousseau in Paris
for wear in the U.S.A., and her order has
caused a stir, because it includes a collec-
tion of tweed suits with trousers. She says
they’re, just the thing for housework in the
mornings. However that may be, Anita will
look “just cute” in them, and the photo-
graphers will do the rest.
From Paris comes the latest in fans.
Instead of ostrich plumesi tulle is used. One
specimen of fluffy amber-colored tulle with
mountings of amber is the prettiest frock-
etcetera this Page has seen for many moons.
Mrs. R. Hallenstein, president of the St.
Ivilda auxiliary of the Alfred Hospital, enter-
tained the members at her home at St. Kilda.
There was a surprise presentation of table
crystal and linen for Mrs. Alfred Couchman,
hon. sec. since the foundation of the branch.
Fred Michaelis, president of the Alfred, was
there to acknowledge the value of the auxili-
ary’s aid. Mrs. Reg Ellery and Dawn Hard-
ing made music.
French Consul Turck, on the eve of his
departure, handed over tributes from the
Alliance Francaise in Paris to keen workers
for the Melbourne branch. To Mr. Watson,
who has guarded the finances of the society
for many years, was presented Des Palmes
Academiques; and for Madame Cockerton
and Madame Trant there were medals.
After 10 years of constant vogue, the
dance is out of favor abroad. In vain do
teachers invent new steps and organise com-
petitions. The first are received with heart-
breaking indifference, and there are no com-
petitors because all the young people are at
the skating-rinks. Girls find ice-skating
keeps them slimmer and fitter, the young
men follow the girls, and thousands are being
spent in converting British dance-halls into
rinks. The same bands play the same music,
there are plenty of partners, and a skating
ensemble is decidedly attractive.
Mrs. G. H. Gill (The Bulletin’s Esther
Paterson) has brought back from her tour
abroad a sketch of Captain Cook’s house.
The Gills discovered the domicile in Great
Ayton, in Yorkshire, just as it was on the
point of being demolished.
When one of the dwellers of this Letter’s
pet lighthouse on Maatsuyker took seriously
ill, and a doctor was needed, the isolated
little family had to trust their SOS to car-
rier pigeons. But the pigeons never reached
Hobart; they fell victim to the ravening
hawks, as—so the family scribe adds sadly—
they always do, and no doctor was sent.
However, things might have been worse, for
help arrived otherwise, and the patient is
now making recovery in H'obart. So the
carrier, pigeon is used in more than secret
service stories, though that seems to be the
only place where it ever is a success. Indeed
it is a question whether “homing”—the breed-
ing and training of such birds: —doesn’t come
within the categories of cruel sports. Accord-
ing to reputable authorities not 2 p.c. of
the birds released on long Australian flights
succeed in getting home.
While the motor-car is putting a per-
manent wave in the fixings of the hotels in
the larger towns, it is taking all the curl
out of those in little townships in between.
“Nobody calls here now,” one poor land-
lady sighed the other day: “everybody goes
on to Nowra.” The 15 or 20 miles between
used to be a matter of some consequence to
tired old Dobbin. Now, even to Mr. Ford’s
Elizabeth, it is a matter of only a few
minutes.
Chief Justice Irvine and his lady sailed in
the Narkunda last week for a holiday in
Colombo.


'fWIl
Browder
m
1
Grea
{Cold
r&cun
Serd.Jiiiffw
Cof,
m
m
r for your complexion
“4711" Vanishing Cream, the day cream par excellence,
and the ideal base for "4711" Face Powder. Before
bed -time cleanse your pores and stimulate their
action by a thorough massage with
“471 V Cold Cream.
Ever welcome offerings at the shrine of
Beauty f charm and fragrance to make
loveliness doubly adorable... Surely even
Ophir could not offer treasures more
precious than these, more welcome than
“4711” Eau de Cologne and the umcfue
toiletries to which its haunting fragrance
gives distinction and repute.
"4711" Eau de Cologne * “4711” Frozoclone * '4711" Liquid
Shampoo * “4711" Talcum Powder * “4711” Eau de Co-
logne Cream Soap, in boxes of 3 tablets * "4711
Eau de Cologne Bath Soap, in boxes of 3 and 6 tablets
* “4711” Bath Powder *
All delightful items recognized
hy the registered * '47ll °
on the Blue and
ifoi v
j
m
r
»roiooNl
■47//
MlLDTcoTor.^c
LIQUID
s HamfoO
df toiog„ e , lirfumene-Wji
Gi °CKENGASSE N ! 47tl
j ■'X KOu<
II not
congeal
Quailed
To
o f the hair
Junn
i-t-j
w.
CO
i£fo*
cP v
rC2
m
m
£22
Solid
Eau de
Cologne
mi
o
Genuine
Eau cfe
Gologne


7he centre of Queens/anc/s
L-r Soc/o/ Life.
Wotel
RDTQR
BRISBANE
IViagniticent K a I i-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5180—10 Lines.
fsd
Visitors to Adelaide
WILL FIND
THE GRAND
COFFEE PALACE
AN IDEAL HOME.
Centrally Situated.
ALL CONVENIENCES—EVERY
COMFORT ASSURED.
EXCELLENT CUISINE.
LARGE MOTOR GARAGE
ATTACHED.
TARIFF: £3/10/- WEEKLY.
HINDLEY STREET,
NEXT WEST’S THEATRE.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co*,
214 Georse Street, Sydney.
Unde?
Royal
Vintage 1920
A Bfjo3o
•WHOI
CH AIVIPAGNE
McsMicck
bicdm
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
champagne
'■oartesHeidsieCv
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydnay.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Have you
ordered
Kraft Cheese?
You must have a queer feeling when first
you see a cause of which for 20 years you
hav ■ been patron become part of an organ-
isation so strong that it needs no patron.
This is what has befallen Miss Ilume Bar-
bour, the lady to whose help the Women’s
League owed much of its success. Now the
Women’s League has joined with the Women
Voters and the Women’s Service Guild, and
the three will henceforth present a strong
front to men as the United Association. Last
week the league sang its swan song above
many and prettily-decked tea-tables in
Farmer’s, and this Letter ventures to say
that it was a somewhat sad Miss Hume
Barbour who was the guest of the after-
noon. Mrs. A. V. Roberts, the high priestess
of the old order, made a stirring appeal to
her followers to give loyal support to the
Uniteds, and told of the many and sustained
good works of the lady behind the bouquet
of honor. A water-color of the North Shore
Bridge in its skeleton beauty was also
handed over, with autographs of women who
had labored long in the vineyard, so to speak.
The Historical Society was represented by
the friendly Aubrey Hallorans and Captain
Watson; Basset Hull was there for the
Zoological Society, and Racial Hygiene was
honorably present in the person of Mrs.
L. E. Goodison. There were 200 women to
consume the sweets and cakes and listen to
the music arranged by Mrs. Stephen Her-
ford. who, clever manager that she is, saw to
it that, even though the Women’s League
was about to close shop, a stream of silver
should yet fall into its till from the sale of
home-made sweets and Christmas novelties.
This letter doesn’t think much of the
modernisation of Santa Claus. The poor old
gentleman in his turkey-twill and cotton-
wool whiskers has descended on this city
from aeroplanes, has arisen from a seaplane,
has run around the suburban streets in
racing cars, and has seemed to purposely
alienate himself from his old and just-
beginning friends. Last week, however, the
dear thing slipped back to grace. He came
to town in the old family Victoria, and
passed along (lie street bowing and smiling
just as friendly as the King to every little
girl and boy he chanced to meet. The
open carriage was drawn by two prancing
steeds, and a coachman in livery was on the
box and a smart footman sat alongside.
Animals, alive or mechanical, have an
irresistible lure for kiddies, so David Jones’s
circus has been an extraordinarily popular
Christmas attraction. Atmosphere is created
the minute you leave the lift by cages of
tigers and monkeys and teddy-bears, by a
tent of red and white that leads to the
lawdust ring. Ropes of holly have festooned
and garlanded every store for the past
month, and the Christmas bush and bells
shake radiant music over all the land.
A fat cheque. each for the Country
Women’s Association and the Kindergarten
Union and a fine advertisement for the
Orient Company are the firstfruits of the
ball on the Orontes last week. This is the
first visit of this highly-embellished marine
hotel fo these shores, and as usual the
Orient people flung their new belonging open
from poop to fo’c’s’le in the name of Charity,
and added supper and music amidships for
good measure.
Hundreds swooped down on Woolloomoo-
loo Bay, where the Orontes, her masts and
hull throbbing with electrics, gave the
Southern Cross a lesson in illumination.
Once on board the lugger, however, blonde
and brunette found to their relief a lighting
more subdued, and began to view the 16,500
feet of boat-deck with approbation. Dancing
was, strictly speaking, on the sports deck,
but as the music was broadcast you could
rip a waltz off wherever you felt inclined.
The awning of rejoicing enclosed the decks,
and the atmosphere of the Orient was sup-
plied by innumerable Chinese and Japanese
lanterns. The whole De Chair family from
the Viking down made merry with the
throng, after being greeted on arrival by
Captain O’Sullivan and his lady and the
chiefs of the C.W.A. and the Kindergarten
Union. In this group were the S. S.
Cohens, Mrs. Colin Venn and Mrs. Marie
Irvine.
The Vice-reine came late, but daughter
Elaine, in rather depressed cerisey satin
and tulle, steered father up the gang-
way. Son Graham was another late arrival
and distributed his favors with a fair-
mindedness noble in one so young. His Ex.
was seen dancing with Mrs. George Vivers
and Marjorie Luscombe Newman. Mrs.
Vivers, who always dances with Governors
when princes or crowned heads aren't avai£
able, was draped in black moire, girt tight
to almost non-existent hips with diamente;
and Miss Newman frivolled in the flowered
georgettes suitable to her girlish years. The
two notable red heads of the night were
Noreen Worrall and Mary Doberer. Noreen
doesn’t believe in wasting a good figure
under layers of tulle, and her gown of
vellum lace was cut to show her upstand-
ing slimness. The Doberer girl looked like
something out of a daguerreotype in flounce
after flounce of black tulle. Mrs. Spencer
Brunton, upholstered in handsome black and
gold, suggested self-governing Duchies, and
Mrs. Victor White, blooming with pink roses,
bore her company. Shirley Dent’s black
chiffons were parterred with red and pink
roses.
A handsome trio were Miss Jo O’Keefe,
Mrs. Blau and Mrs. Tom Fraser. The first
wore black chiffons flowered in red and pink
roses. It was long all the way round, and
wore the new cowl back. Mrs. Fraser’s
blonde good looks shone above foamy green,
and Mrs. Blau’s silver and pink were smartly
peppered with black sequins. There was an
intriguing Lady of the .Camellias, and, being
modern, she wore the whiteness of that aloof
flower flat along the deep slash at the back
of her frock. (Needless to say she had not
been acquiring the sun tan of the moment.
For sun tan is not ornamental as a back
or chest protector. Heavens! If some of
the girls the other night could have seen
the great open spaces of their anatomy!)
The Orient Ilogarths had with them smart
Alison Clarke, from Maoriland. Calvert
Andrew (he’s the Sydney manager of the
company) brought his wife, and Mrs. L. J.
Morehead came with her breadwinner.
Shirley Bavin arrived, a whirl of hydrangea-
blues, a Chinese wrap and a much-decorated
betrothed Commander Horn. Mrs. Wallace
Horsley was calmly handsome in chiffons
that suggested a French salad; a young
Macarthur Onslow was an attraption in
ivory tulle ; D. L. Dowdell put a dash of
elegance into the night; and the young man
in charge of the Orient publicity kept liis
hand on the siphon of hospitality all through
the night.
The new organising secretary of the City
Girls’ Amateur Sports Association, Marjorie
Itixon, looks
at you - from
this May
Moore picture.
There are 80
clubs in the
association, so
the new secre-
tary, whose
job it is to or-
ganise matches
and competi-
tions, walking
tours and sum-
mer camps,
has her work
cut out. Mar-
jorie stepped
straight from
the Uni. into
this job, and
youthful en-
thusiasm plus
a genius for
hockey and
swimming and a gift for organisation will
carry her through. Arranging the Christ-
mas Camp at Springwood for the association
has been her first big job.
Dr. Otto Wunderlich and his tall golden-
haired lady came back to Sydney for Christ-
mas and were glad to find that the sun was
still shining. Europe, which they visit every
year or so, on this last jaunt pursued them
with cold. _ Their arrival at a place was as
sure to whistle up snow and wind as the blue
peter at the masthead is to throw off the
landlines. Even Alexandria pelted them with
flakes, and Monte Carlo and Cannes gave
them shivers. In Paris, by way of variety,
they were in two taxi accidents, and by the
time things warmed up in England they were
busy planning their voyage home again.
Black satin has completely ousted crepe de
Chine with the women of Paris, and black
satin and bottle-green suits were everywhere
when Mrs. Wunderlich took her last look at
the avenues. The swathed hip is to every
gown for evening and house wear; straight
skirts for the street, with no floppy pieces.
Evening frocks are just as we have known
them for some time. White satin and heavy
white crepe and georgette were the most
popular for evening dresses. An evening coat
of white crepe lined with soft black velvet,
the collar a white Arctic fox and the hem
another, while sprayed down each side is a
design glittering like tiny icicles, might be a
Chanel interpretation of Christmas Eve in
Paris. A honey-colored lace tunic, the braid
of point lace replaced by rouleaux of the
crepe de Chine which forms the rest of the
ensemble, strikes a new note. The rouleaux
are joined by lace stitches in silk thread, and
the whole is cobwebby and decorative. Small
hats in velour or velvet, brimless in the front,
elongated at sides or back, were worn on
every woman’s head and off every woman's
face.
Mrs. Wunderlich found London crazy over
a new doll. She is an old Irishwoman with
long stuff skirt, shawl crossed over her
shoulders, mutch and all. She has a nut-
cracker face and she twinkles rather like a
leprechaun. Coming home a girl dressed
herself as one of these dolls complete in
every detail and carried off the first prize
at the inevitable fancy-dress, ball.
The Wunderlichs were the envied of the
Test of the ship’s company when the Orontes
was coming through the tropics. Into the
sideboard in their suite was fitted an ice-
box, so that cold drinks could be turned on
at. all hours of the day or night. This
suite is almost as roomy as one in the Aus-
tralia. In it you can be as matey-like with
fellow-voyagers as the old woman who lived
in a shoe, or as aloof as the ex-Ivaiser.
The elders of Sydney Jewry looked ask-
ance when Dr. Fanny Reading started to
form her Council of Jewish Women half a
dozen years ago. They scented a possible femin-
ine attempt at interference in religious affairs,
but instead have found the organisation a
help in collecting funds for many purposes.
The other day, when Dr. Fanny set a branch
going in Newcastle, she completed her circle
in Australia; only a couple of weeks before
she had returned from setting C’s.J.W. going
in Perth, Adelaide and Ballarat. Tassie is
the only State now without a branch; but
the island has hardly any Jewish population.
This Letter can't imagine any place more
delightful in which to creep back to health
than Canonbury, the A.J.C. convalescent
home for kiddies at Darling Point. The
friendly old house is surrounded by lawns,
and the waters of Port Jackson flash chang-
ing as an opal at the foot of its gardens.
Everything' that is seasonable grows in this
garden, so last week Matron Colless wasn’t
a bit surprised to find a heavily-fruited
Christmas tree just waiting to be raided by
the youngsters under her care. She sur-
rounded the toy-gleaning with a party, and
midway through the fun Santa Claus him-
self bounced through one of the windows
and took part in it. A.J.C. chiefs, like the
Colin Stephen couple, the Shepheard Laid-
leys and Charley Cropper, dropped in to
bestow the smile of approval.
There was plenty of competition among
the priests of the archdiocese for the honor
(and pleasure) of accompanying Dr. Kelly
to Rome early in the coming year—on the
visit which is expected to produce a Car-
dinal’s hat. Finally the selection of priestly
A.D.C. fell on Father Murphy, of Mosman.
He, by the way, has just sustained con-
gratulations upon completing 25 years in the
cloth. A good Australian, he comes from
the good grazing country beyond Maitland.
Newcastle has been keeping its memory
green by a pageant in which the landing of
Lieutenant Shortland was .vividly portrayed.
The lieutenant discovered Newcastle in 1797,
although how he recognised it as Newcastle
is hard to say. However, as the coal city
was determined to make last week memor-
able . its citizens depicted a smart cutter
entering the harbor manned by British tars
of the 1797 vintage. A tribe of aborigines,
dusky and afraid, watched the approach from
a. beach on which a great fire had been
lighted to keep off evil. As the boat drew
nearer the shore the aborigines seized their
spears and considered direct action. But
the captain, coming in peace, brought temp-
tation in his hands. So they led him to the
coalmines, over which he placed John Brown,
and everybody has lived snappy ever since.
The great event of the week was the open-
ing of the new Town Hall by the State
Viking. Mayor Wheeler did the honors, and
boy scouts, looking noble as to soul and in-
vincible as to knee-cap, formed a guard of
honor.
While Mollie Rayner was fleeing across
the watery wastes of Maoriland’s inhospit-
able coast the other night in company with
“The Baby Cyclone” company and other of
the wrecked Manuka passengers, sistets Joan
and Betty were sleeping soft and dreaming
of two big New Year parties that will sur-
round their T.O.Y. performances. The first
will be arranged by Lady de Chair, at Sutton
Forest, where the girls, at the invitation of
the Vice-reine, will camp in their caravan ;
and the second will be given by Mrs. Gordon
Craig, who has put the grounds about her
Palm Beach home at the disposal of the
sisters, and is going to hostess at least one
performance in her garden.
Between next Saturday and the 26th of
February four well-known musical girls of
Sydney are to try tlieir hands at turning
Love’s Old Sweet Song into a life duet.
They are Molly Smith, Muriel Oakshott,
Daphne Akhurst and Dulcie Blair. Molly
Smith is due to become Mrs. George Niven
at St. Mary’s on Saturday morning. Muriel
Oakshott will be Mrs. Kenneth Jackson at
a quarter to eight on the same night. Dulcie
Blair will be a January and Daphne Akhurst
a February bride. In honor of the four
Mrs. Babkin arranged a party at Romano’s,
at which about 40 old Con. associates drained
the cup of friendship.
One of the nicest Christmas parties was
staged at the Lyceum Club. Here were
Christmas carols sung by waits in the cos-
tumes of many nations, reminding the on-
looker that Christmas, after all, isn’t a
purely British institution. The little and
big boys and girls of Germany and Belgium
and Italy and France, not to speak of
Spain and even poor Russia, have their songs
and hymns for this season of heart-happi-
ness (probably Russia whispers them when
the Soviet isn’t listening), and up above Pitt-
street the other night the minstrelsy of far-
off lands was heard till it almost seemed
that a flake or two of snow blew' in through
the open windows. A choir from the Con.
supplied the music, Ethelwyn Kirk arranged
the pageant and Mrs. Leonard Dare was the
accompanist. A programme of old-fashioned
dances took up what was left of the even-
ing after supper and an enormous Christmas-
tree had been disposed of.
The Bulletin’s photographer made this
study of Dulcie Deamer on the day of last
week when that brilliant young woman was
celebrating a birthday. Dulcie seemed more
interested in
that than in
the republica-
tion of those
r e m a r kable
short . stories
of hers given
to the world
when she was
16. The book
is named “As
It Was in the
Beg inning,”
the title being
taken from
the story
which won the
first prize in a
Lone Hand
comp etition
when Frank
Fox was its
editor. Every
story in the
book deals
with prehistoric man, and realistic Norman
Lindsay drawings are an added strength.
Novels and poems flow from this amazingly-
colored brain through a facile pen. There’s
nothing of the literary snob about the jolly
person, who is as active as a schoolboy and
as full of laughter as the sky. She doesn’t
wear her afdiievements with self-conscious-
ness, and she talks more about, her swim-
ming and her physical-culture exercises and
her children than about her novels. Of these
latter “The Suttee of Safa,’’ “The Street
of the Gazelle,” “Revelation” and “The
Devil’s Saint” have been published in
America. “As It Was in the Beginning” can
be bought from Frank Wilmot, Little Collins-
street, Melbourne.
Among the outward-bound early next year
is popular Jo O’Keefe, of David Jones’s, who
after six months’ observation of how they
are wearing legs, waists and hips in London,
Paris and New York, will come back and
preach the gospel with modern instances.
A very excited little girl, Nona Gillis, of
St. Michael’s School, Stanmore, last week
won a prize of a Triumph motor-car for pen-
manship. If everybody could write as beau-
tifully as Nona, the optician wouldn’t have
more than half as many customers.
The penwomen of this city will soon be
wearing the fatted calf of the over-feted.
The Queen Victoria Club gave them a party
early last week, and later they treated them-
selves to one. This was in the Lyceum Club,
and was complete with Christmas tree and
giddy balloons. There was music and a
guessing competition, the prizes for which
were carried home by Jessie Urquhart and
Anna Gullett. Marjorie Quinn was pre-
sent, receiving congratulations on her
address on the younger Australian writers
to the Overseas League. Ethelwyn Kirk,
whose father is ill in Molong Hospital, wore
a worried look above yellow organdie. The
Professor had just arrived from Maoriland
for his summer vacation when the intense
heat and an overtaxed physique laid him
aside. However, Christmas Day will see
him striving with his daughter for victory
over a wishbone.
Florence Kennedy Bateman, a pretty bride
who sought St. Philip’s for her union with
Harry John Devenish Meares, added a border
of blues and pinks to her ankle-length frock.
The young man brought honorable inten-
tions, a ring, a useful family record and
good tailoring to the procession, which
his sister Norah further adorned in sweep-
ing raiment of ethereal pink georgettes.
Bishop D’Arey Irvine tied the knot. The
bride, who comes from Wollongong, is a
daughter of the late Dr. Bateman, of Albion
Park. Knives and forks at the Mary Eliza-
beth.
And now may men and women come to a
better understanding of one another’s prob-
lems ; let what Chesterton somewhere calls
a passionate peace descend upon our hearts,
and so A Merry Christmas to Australia!


M
LEIPZIG SPRING FAIR (GERMANY).
Incorporating Great Engineering and Building Fairs.
BEGINS MARCH 2nd, 1930.
BUYERS GOING ABROAD .must visit the Leipzig Trade Fair, the
world’s largest Manufacturing, Industrial and Engineering Exposition.
Introductions arranged. Full information free on request to -
f
Authorised Representatives: C. N. KEPPEL, c/o Marcard Lund & Co., Box 585 D 0.P.0
Authorised Repiesentauves brun ’ dahl> 6 Daiiey Street, Box 3127 P G.P.0.,
~ Melbourne.
Sydney.
Tenders.
ARTHUR J. ROWE, LIMITED
(In Liquidation).
"TENDERS ARE INVITED by the under-
signed for the purchase of the follow-
ing assets in the above estate and/or that
of Arthur John Rowe, of Adelaide and else-
where, cafe proprietors and confectioners.
Tenders will CLOSE at the office
DAVID FELL & CO, 91 King William
Street, Adelaide, at 12 noon on FRIDAY,
3rd JANUARY, 1930.
Lot I—For the purchase as a going concern of the
business of Arthur J. Rowe, Limited, Manufactui-
ing Confectioners, Caterers, Cafe Proprietors and
Retail Confectioners, and the goodwill thereof,
together with
(a) The freehold property of Factory,
Shop and Two Cottages at Port Road,
Southwark, comprised in Certificates
of title, Volume 1110, Folio 87 ;
Volume 979, Folio 26 ; Volume 582.
Folio 141, Land and Buildings valued
at £11,950
(b) Machinery under hire at • ■ 1,250
(c) Plant, Fittings and remainder of
Machinery and 4 Motor Trucks . . 6,200
(d) Stocks at ■ • • • • • • • 4,000
(e) Furniture, Fittings and Stocks at
shop at .. • • • • • • 120
Lot 2 —All the interest of Arthur John Rowe and/or
Arthur J. Rowe, Limited, in the following leases
and/or agreements for lease and/or tenancies,
together with the Fittings, Furniture and Stocks
therein:—
Lot 3—Caf6 and Shop, Majestic Hotel Buildings,
King William-street, Adelaide. Memorandum of
Lease expiring 17th June, 1933, weekly rental
£33. Plant, Fittings and Furniture £420, Stocks
£lOO.
Lot 4—Shop, 118 King William-street, Adelaide.
Memorandum of lease date 28/9/’25, expiring
28/9/’3O, at weekly rental of £9/10/-. Fixtures
and Fittings £650, Stocks £llO.
Lot s—Theatre5 —Theatre Royal Cafe and Shop, Memorandum
of Lease No. 660815, dated 14/6/M6, expiring
10th February, 1934, at monthly rental of
£66/13/4. Inside sweet rights additional. Fix-
tures and Fittings £1590, Stocks £l5O.
Lot 6 —Shop, 40 Hindley Street, Adelaide, under
memorandum of lease, at weekly rent of £O.
Fixtures and Fittings £620. Stocks £l2O.
Lot 7—Shop, 93 Hindley Street (adjoining West’s
Theatre), weekly tenancy, £5 week. Fixtures
and Fittings £1210, ( Stocks £5O.
Lot B—Shop, 95 Hindley Street, Adelaide, under
Memorandum of Lease date 23/5/’29, expiring
26/11/’34), at weekly rent of £5.
Lot 9—Shop, Prince of Wales Theatre, weekly
tenancy, £l/10/- week. Sweet rights additional.
Fixtures and Fittings £2OO, Stocks £6O.
Lot 10—Shop, Henley Beach. Weekly tenancy,
£l7/6/8 month. Fixtures and fittings, £1316,
Stocks £B5.
Lot 11 —Shop, Jetty Road, Glenelg. Memorandum of
Lease date 26/10/’2B, expiring 30/9/’33. Fixtures
and fittings, £250, Stocks £46.
Lot 12—Astraea Cafe and Shop, 204 Unley-road
Unley. Memorandum of Lease, No. 1014667, expir-
ing 31/5/’33, at weekly rental £6. .Fixtures
and fittings £364, Stocks £4B.
Lot 13 —Caf6 and Shop, No. 1 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Memorandum of Lease dated 16/8/’27, expiring
l/7/’32, at weekly rental of £9/7/-. Fixtures
and fittings £250, Stocks £7O.
Lot 14 —Shop, National Theatre, Prospect. Memor-
andum of lease date 29/11/’27, expiring 31./12/’29.
Weekly rental £2, including inside sweet rights.
Fixtures and fittings £lB6, Stocks £42.
Lot 15 —Shop 63 Glen Osmond Road, Eastwood.
Weekly tenacy at £3 week. Fixtures and fittings
£2lO, Stocks £65.
Lot 16—Shop, Capitol Theatre, St. Peters. Weekly
tenacy at £3/10/- week. Fixtures and fittings
£423, Stocks £2O.
Lot 17 —Shop, Pirie Theatre, Port Pirie. Weekly
tenancy. Fixtures and fittings £350, Stocks
£450.
Lot 18 —Two International Trucks, value £2OO,
£125; Chevrolet Truck, £80; Ford Truck, £5O.
Tenders may be for the purchase of the business
as' a going concern, or for one or more lots or any
part of any lot.
Conditions of Tender may be inspected, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Liquidators,
or from Messrs. Genders, Wilson and Pellew,
Solicitors, Selborne Chambers, Pirie Street, Adelaide,
at which latter address also memorandums and agree-
ment of leases and tenancies may be inspected.
Stock Sheets and Inventories of Plants, Fixtures
and Fittings and Motor Vehicles may be inspected
at the office of the Liquidators.
No responsibility is taken by the Liquidators
for errors of description. Adjustments will be made
for shorts and overs.
No Tender necessarily accepted.
A. TRICKETT, A.C.A. (Aust.),
C. D. WATSON, A.C.A. (Aust.),
Liquidators.
National Mutual Buildings, 91 King William
Street, Adelaide. F 350,2,5
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPKiiIMB COURT OF
1 NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1682 of 1929.
BETWEEN EVELYN GLADYS JOYCE
Petitioner and VOLLENEY RICHARD
JOYCE Respondent.
TO VOLLENEY RICHARD JOYCE late
of Gundagai.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Evelyn
Gladys Joyce has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the eighteenth day of March One thousand
nine hundred and thirty and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on "application to the undersigned solicitor
free of charge.
DATED this nineteenth day of December,
1929.
For the Registrar.
(Sgd.) C. K. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
E. A. Leask, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
.17 Martin Place, Sydney.
-Legal Notice.
HTO HAROLD ROBERT STRATHMERE
formerly of 102 Albert Street East
Melbourne in the State of Victoria Tyre
Moulder.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife Matilda
May Stratlimere has instituted proceedings
against you for divorce on the ground of
desertion unless you enter an appearance in
the Prothonotary’s Office of the Supreme
Court in Melbourne on or before the twenty-
first day of January One thousand nine
hundred 'and thirty. The case may proceed
in your absence and you may be ordered to
pay costs.
LAWSON & JARDINE,
123 William Street, Melbourne,
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
Position Wanted.
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS.
\/OUNG man (29), single, wants position;
used to tropical climates; agricultural,
citrus and gardening experience; handy with
tools any trade; thoroughly reliable. Apply,
E. E. SCH., this paper.
Amusements.
gYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S:
THE DESERT SONG.
CRITERION: LOMBARDI. LTD.
PALACE: IN THE NEXT ROOM.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
TURNED UP.
With GUS BLUETT, LEO FRANKLYN,
CECIL KELLEWAY.
E W COMEDY THEATRE,
LEON GORDON in
MURDER ON THE SECOND FLOOR.
With ADA REEVE.
HOYT'S DE LUXE THEATRE
MELBOURNE.
SEE AND HEAR
THE 100 PER CENT. ALL TALKING
FOX MOVIETONE FEATURE,
THE BLACK WATCH.
With VICTOR McLAGLEN, MYRNA LOY.
And a Supporting Cast of Thousands.
(Children under 16 not admitted.)
THE PATRIOT
DIRECT MEDIUM Tg WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
j-y HAIR
N£ED
here's
SWAN
INK
rr^:
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
SfccdLnis cmcxican')
UkUnat StouLn,
''REMOVES THE GREY *
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct Q/6), 6d. being postage.
©
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland's
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Little Mary M’cClusky presented Lady
Goodwin with a bunch of red roses when
their Exes, went to “The Toreador,” played
by the Brisbane Comic Opera Co. in His
Majesty’s Theatre. The Mayor and Mayoress
were in the audience.
Soldiers’ children had a Christmas party
in the Albert Hall, where Santa Claus actu-
ally came down the chimney with his pack,
bringing all kinds of gifts, from large teddy-
bears to gold bangles for the mites. The
Mayor and Mayoress were there, and presi-
dent C. T. Strickland said he hoped next
year the gathering would be in the City
Hall.
In the assembly hall of the Boys’ Gram-
mar the Governor 'presented the prizes.
Later he and his lady went on to the Girls’
Grammar, where Misses D. Lockington and
B. Steedman did the welcoming.
Flags and festoons of red, blue and gold
decorated the grounds of the Graceville
Croquet Club when Mr. T. Nimmo unfurled
the A-grade and junior A-grade pennants
won by club teams at the recent interstate
tournaments. Mrs. Rees, the president, did
the welcoming. The trophies won during
the year were presented by Mis. Nimmo.
There was a jumble stall for the funds of
the club extension, and afternoon-tea was
served in the club house.
Professor and Mrs. Cumbrae Stewart were
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Dickens for the Dickens
Fellowship Christmas party. Miss Waite,
a member of the London Dickens Fellow-
ship, and Mrs. M. A. Middleton, who had
spoken with Charles Dickens himself in
Rochester when she was a wee girl, were
amongst the speakers.
Mr. and Mrs. George McConnell lent
their home at Bulimba for a benefit to aid
the local branch of the R.S.S.I.L. emergency-
relief fund. Electric-lights and gay bunting
festooned the lawn, where reels and quad-
rilles were footed, and more formal step-
ping took place on the verandahs, where
there was a string band. Songs and recita-
tions rounded off a sprightly evening.
In honor of Mrs. A. J. Christie, whose
husband is the new Chief Commissioner at
Canberra, Mrs. Henry Sterne had a party
at Rowe’s. Mrs. Christie wore sheer linen in
pale green, with touches of Oriental ’broid-
eries, and a pastel-green hat.
Sallie Evelyn Thomason announces her
engagement to Charlie Bowly, of the firm
of M’anson and Bowly. She is the winsome
daughter of the H. W. Thomasons, Rathdon-
nell, Auchenflower, and comes of a musi-
cally-gifted family; a young brother has a
remarkable boy soprano.
Yvonne Banvard takes the lead at the
Royal in the new company formed on Nellie
Bramley’s temporary retirement. She has
been seen before there to advantage with
Edward de Tisne and Harrington Reynolds.
Cremorne is putting on a pantomime for
Christmas week.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
o,ur brightest pair of women tennis stars,
Miss Mollie McGrath and Miss Peter Smith,
leave early in January for Melbourne to
compete in the Australian championships.
Pictured alongside is Miss McGrath, who
a few years ago, when she was a pupil of the
Sacred Heart
Convent, bor-
rowed a
warped rac-
quet from a
school pal
and won a
tournament
for ynder-14-
year - olds.
After that her
mother gave
her a good rac-
quet, complete
with cover and
press. She
bagged two of
the centenary
trophies and
had three
wins at the
Easter tourna-
ment and two
at Bunbury,
where she
proved her mettle by playing nine matches
on one day. Mollie, a sturdy and charm-
ing little lass of 17, is a daughter of Mrs.
McGrath, of Perth, and the late T. J.
McGrath, who, incidentally, gave liis small
daughter her first kindergarten lessons from
illustrations in The Bulletin.
Frizzling weather greeted the Toe H fete,
an afternoon and evening affair in Govern-
ment House grounds. There were numerous
stalls where bunches of pretty girls in old-
world organdies and poke bonnets, blue-and-
white _ check gingham and Dutch caps,
and similarly attractive garb, sold novelties
and served tea and ices. Other features were
clock golf, hoop-las, cocoanut shies, treasure
hunts and village stocks, where his Ex., the
Lud Mayor and McMillan, C.J., were dis-
tinguished delinquents. In the evening Lin-
ley Wilson’s pupils danced on the lawn, and
a torchlight procession wended its way
through the trees as a preliminary to a mock
battle between the redcoats and the khaki-
clads. The finale was a dramatic one,
the slaying of a fiery dragon who roamed
through the garden seeking whom it might
devour.
One of the best shows the Repertory Club
hag' produced was Noel Coward’s skit on
eccentric families, “Hay Fever.” It was only
a one-night effort, but proved so successful
that the club has shaken off the shackles of
debt and has a surplus in the treasury.
Mrs, Stubbs, always reliable, did some good
work as the emotional and insincere Judith:
Mrs. Marco made an excellent Sorel, and
Brian Curlewis furnished the surprise _of
the evening, his interpretation of Simon being
voted excellent. Martin Ketley played the
part of David, and Julie Menouchin was the
brainless flapper Jackie.
Youth takes joyfully to novelties, and
Perth’s first midnight picture-show staged at
the Capitol began as a great success, with
this section of William-street crowded
and brightly illuminated. The ushers were
Pierrots, artists and gollywogs: one hairy-
legged youth wore a ballet costume and tat-
tooed back. Girls in green and white paper
frocks distributed caps and streamers, to the
Lud Mayor and his wife among others. Mr.
Franklin wore a luxuriant chestnut wig and
matching whiskers, and the Mayoress* chose
a tall green cap with pink pompoms. The
noise before the performance was an echo
of a Sydney theatre on boatrace night, but
as miles of “The Cock-eyed World” unrolled
enthusiasm waned, and numbers left before
the end.
Marjorie Donald, of Northam, has accepted
the customary sparklet from Dr. Malcolm
Bell, of the Mt. Lawley Albany Bell clan.
Luxuriant palms were a cool relief from
the out-of-doors sizzle on the afternoon of
the Mayoral at-home in the Town Hall. Mrs.
Franklin clasped a posy of rosebuds against
her beige-lace draperies, worn with black
millinery. Gwladys Edwards, Irene Stan-
cliffe and Mrs. Greening warbled, Dora Gil-
bertson recited, and Mrs. Dickenson and
Gladys Orchard accompanied.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
Newnham races came off in glorious
weather, though the frocking was on the
cautious side, a wet spring having shown
the risks of venturing out in summer gar-
ments too early. President J. V. Gibson
and Mrs. Gibson, the Tullock Scotts, Dr.
and Mrs. L. O. Macnamara, Mr. and Mrs.
R. St. Hill, H. W. Yon Steiglitz, Mrs. 11.
P. Harrison and daughter, L. Archer and
daughter and Miss Lorna Bartlett were
among those present.
This is Alison
Page, a very
youthful mem-
ber of the Re-
pertory So-
cie t y, who
made her bow
to the public
in Galswor-
thy’s “S ki n
Game,” at the
Theatre Royal.
She has a nice
voice, enunci-
ates clearly,
and the society
has plenty of
use for her.
The wedding
of the month
was that of
Patricia Ains-
.l ie, only
daughter o f
Mr. and Mrs.
F. Ainslie Wood, of Geelong, and
Francis Henry Foster, of Merton, Campbell
Town, one of the best-known pastoral-
ists of the Midlands. The knot was tied
at St. David’s Cathedral by Dean Rivers.
The bride wore a lovely dress of ivory
satin, with a tulle veil.
Launceston picked a fine day for the regatta
on the Tamar. There are still traces every-
where of the disastrous effects of the April
floods —among other things it thinned the
ranks of yachts and motor-boats —but this
did not interfere with the day’s sport.
Hobart sent up a good contingent of com-
petitors, and there were 22 entries for the
speed-boat contest. The Tamar crew carried
off the Burke Challenge Shield.
Among recent entertainments was the
treasure hunt organised by Mollie Eady
and Betty Giblin, the hunting-ground
extending from the Imperial to Brown’s
River. Five carloads started on the quest,
and the lucky finders were Nancy Giblin
and Rupert Lyons.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
At Tattersall’s meeting at Morphettville
there were many welcomes for P. J.
Flannagan and his wife, recently returned
from England, the lady wearing a smart silk
coat and a small black Baku straw hat.
Tailor-mades and furs were much in evi-
dence, and so were red hats. Mrs. J. Mel-
rose struck a bright note in a yellow jersey-
cloth ensemble with a yellow Baku hat and
a vivid green and yellow scarf.
A cheery Christmas dinner was supplied
by the Red Cross Society at the Lady Gal-
way Hut at Henley Beach on Tuesday. In
addition Matron Davidson brought some in-
valided returned soldiers from Keswick. Miss
Murray presided at the dinner and distri-
buted the gifts. Matron Treman had the
hut beautifully decorated, and V.A.D.’s
acted as waitresses.
Sidney Kidman’s lady entertained friends
at Millswood to bid farewell to Mrs. Nelson
Clover before she leaves for England. Mrs.
Clover, sen., who is on a visit to Australia,
was also present. It is some years since
the whole Kidman family has foregathered.
The Mayor and Mayoress have sent out
invitations for a party thgt will see out the
Old Year and welcome in the New.
Mary Ive, who married Malcolm Joyner
on Wednesday afternoon, and Ileane Watson,
who was made one with Colin Duncan, of
Melbourne, in the evening, are among the
lioneymooners who are travelling eastward.
The University students held their annual
concert in aid of sports funds on Tuesday
night, and some of them surpassed themselves
in rowdiness, pelting their friends on the
stage—and girls with pretty frocks were
among the performers—with missiles, of
which those in the stalls got their share.
High spirits of this sort can be carried too
far.


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Hiriing Service a la, Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
I
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors.
BRISBANE.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; J. Ryan, Esq. ;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Win. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
An Excellent “Table”
awaits you here!,
d \
t \
A pleasing Menu, good service and
every convenience awaits you at-
reasonable rates at the Grosvenor,
Fireproof, 300 rooms, 100 bathrooms,
yale locks. Tariff from £3/10/-,
Bed and Breakfast from 6/6.
>GROSVENOR
cJldeLudes Finest Unlicensed JinleL
Opp. Railway Sin. Norlh Terrace. ADELAIDE.
Merry Christmas!
BY ARTHUR GROOM
tLLUrr&ATED BY HAPPY J WEXTON
Synopsis : Sandy Jackson, tired of
looking for work and utterly broke in
Brisbane, decides to get back to fami-
liar surroundings, as far west as
possible. Pratten, commercial traveller,
refuses him a lift in Queen-street, and
Sandy crawls into the small space in
the back of the car, and after sundry
mishaps meets his old friend Jim Wal-
ters at Cloncurry, and accepts a job
to go with him to Boolgooroo
station. Reaching the station, Jim
Walters meets an addition, a city girl,
who is looking after the store, and
whose name, station-owner Jack Hin-
ton tells him, is Helen Delaney. Her
presence embarrasses Walters, but
Sandy, who has brought a souvenir
pair of jazz garters with him, has
just enough respect for her to get the
hands engaged in a contest to discover
what kind of garters Miss Delaney
wears. Miss Delaney is greatly em-
barrassed by the sudden interest the
hands take in her, but Walters, who
gets to know of the joke, wins a new
place in Miss Delaney's regard by
quashing the competition, and a strong
love affair develops between them.
Walters, Sandy and others go out to
the stock camp at Eldeetil waterhole,
where their thoroughbrace is destroyed
by fire. Next day the musterers start
out to round up a bunch of almost
unmanageable cattle, some of which
have never seen a white man.
CHAPTER XlX—(Continued).
THE men divided and spread out across
the plain, through the strips of timber,
until the farthest out man found a man
from Owen’s party riding farther out again.
As the stockmen moved in, the galloping
thundered against the sheer hills. The
frightened beasts raced wildly in all direc-
tions and threatened to break back through
the approaching ring. Eor a time the men
were able to keep the cattle ahead without
hard riding; but when the edge of the
plain was reached they became thoroughly
startled and made determined efforts to get
back to freedom. Almost fifteen hundred
cattle were thus forced on to the plain, and
by quick work and skilful handling the men
managed to press them into one great mob.
'‘Give them quarter of an hour,” Walters
advised as he rode slowly around. “Give
them time to settle,” he said to each man.
Foam flecked the horses as the cattle
turned down through Chip Hills. The mob
knew all the byways, all the rocky passages,
all the short cuts to water which no white
man had seen. They bolted, twisted, turned
back, skipped like goats over rocks, until
the air was full of the cursing of angry
men.
The sky overhead was brazen. Awaj'
back behind, the thin line of smoke told
of a very slight breeze from the south-
west; and away down south-west, behind a
dazzling mirage, a great bank of clouds com-
menced to pile up rapidly.
“Oh, for a pot of beer!” Alf Eden panted,
and galloped away after a lively cow over
rocks and through long, coarse grass until
he got the beast back again.
The cattle showed little signs of quieting.
The horses breathed hard with quick exer-
tion.
Old Pat Donovan rode
round from the left wing
of the cattle, and a man
immediately took his place.
He approached the head
stockman.
“Jim,” he said quietly, “we’re going to
get rain.”
“Hell, yes, we’re going to get rain—but
when?” 'Walters’s face was begrimed and
filthy with sweat and dust. / The heat was
hammering at his head. His voice was
hoarse from shouting.
“There’s just the slightest breeze spring-
ing up,” Pat urged. “See that dust, and
those clouds away down yonder?” He
pointed with his stockwhip.
The head stockman nodded. “Mightn’t
work up this way for days yet,” he said.
“Anyway, I’ll be glad when we get out on to
the camp. This timbered country is hotter
than Sandy’s oven.”
Jim turned his horse quickly away to
intercept a breaking cow. His shirt clung
wet and dirty to his back.
No stop was called for lunch. The cattle
were lively. Two men, riding in the lead,
found it a hard task to check them ahead.
Three men spread on each wing galloped
hard to prevent them from breaking away
to the sides.
Early in the afternoon the fifteen hundred
cattle swung out on to the claypan near the
camp, and were brought to a halt.
Two men were left to mind them,; the
two blackboys were ordered out from the
camp to help, and the remainder of the
stockmen rode in for a quick lunch.
Pour men ate, rode out again, and relieved
those on guard.
Walters rose from his meal and went out
to saddle the two camp horses. They were
the finest and most talked of in the whole
West; and he hated to gruel them on such
a deadly day. He looked out across the
Eldeetil Waterhole. Clouds were banking
higher in the south-west beyond the tops
of the trees, and a fitful breeze stirred the
dust among the restless cattle.
Within a few minutes he had ridden
quietly out on to the camp, mounted on
Swordplay, the envy of many stockmen;
beside him Bob Owen rode on a bay geld-
ing little less famed throughout the country,
and down on the station books as Gunner
“These cattle won’t know what’s
loose among them when Gunner and Swoid-
play get to work,” Bob laughed as he held
the eager animal back.
“I’d like to take them both on a world
tour,” the head stockman answered. “I
reckon we’d make people scratch their noses.
They’d hardly believe it—to see Swordplay
at his best.”
“And Gunner—he’d wipe anything else
on the face of the earth,” Owen insisted.
They reached the cattle, rode a little
beyond, and dismounted beneath a dead
gidya. The stockmen rode out from the
camp; a few surrounded the cattle and
waited on guard, and a few rode in, on to
the face of the cattle and waited patiently.
“We’d better start the cutting out,”
Walters said, and gazed around at the un-
steady sea of cattle and the men around
them. “You can try your luck on Gunner
for a while. Bob. I’ll just hold on to Sword-
play till things begin to get a bit lively.
Right, away you go!”
Bob Owen loosened the reins, the slightest
fraction. Gunner approached the face of the
cattle with short, mincing steps, ears pricked,
eyes bright, nostrils distended. His breath
came in sharp snorts. His body quivered,
he seemed as supple as the fastest deer.
Owen guided Gunner into the mob. An
old cow snorted and shot across the horse’s
path; but Gunner only grew a little more
attentive, a little more ready.
Bob leant a fraction in the saddle,
grasped the reins a shade tighter, and
glanced at a two-year-old bull.
Gunner’s alert eyes discovered the bull.
He grunted, stiffened, then darted like *a
flash. The bull turned, twisted behind
another beast, was pushed violently between
two lively cows and tried to turn back into
the centre of the mob. Gunner was around
instantaneously, drew beside, and, with a
sudden spurt, forced the bull to the edge of
the mob. He turned again, twisted, inter-
cepted the bull’s determined effort to regain
the mob, then sidled the bull farther out.
Heavy hoofs drummed on the claypan;
a stockman shot quickly into the “face,”
and forced the animal out fifty yards to a
shady tree.
Gunner repeated the performance once,
twice, then cut out two large calves at the
one entry.
“Gunner’s working well,” Walters declared
proudly, “and Swordplay’s going to work
well, too—eh?” He tugged the stocky
brown pony’s ears. “You fell with me once,
didn’t you, you old fraud! But it wasn’t
your fault, though.”
Within half an hour Gunner had forced
unbranded beasts out in a growing mob
beneath the shady tree. He was lathered
with foam, but still showed extraordinary
enthusiasm.
“I’ll take a turn with Swordplay,” Walters
cried out as Owen succeeded in shooting
out a frantic white heifer.
“You’ll, find them as cunning as rats,
James,” Bob answered him. “They’re not
like ordinary cattle at all. They’ve got a
habit of lining up like a brick wall.”
Swordplay was a wonder to watch. He
knew his work and did it with a finish and
a thoroughness which placed him in a
special class. He knew exactly when to
enter the sea of horns, exactly which beast
was to be cut out when his rider leant
slightly forward in a glance of inspection,
exactly when to jump forward and work the
beast to the edge of the mob. He darted
here, shot there, twirled in the space of a
second, and shouldered and forced the reluc-
tant beast towards the open “face.” He
seemed uncanny in his swiftness. On occa-
sions he brought his strong jaws into action,
and with ears flat back against his head
snapped at the beast. With cows and young
calves he became the model of watchful
kindness, and seemed to revel in the know-
ledge that the cow was to be kept with the
calf at all costs.
Without an accomplished, understanding
rider Swordplay would have been seriously
hampered. He needed one who had the
faculty of being able to read in an instant
exactly what the horse wished to do, for
when Swordplay knew of a beast, to be cut
from the mob,, his acute brain worked with
amazing speed; his eyes searched for the
shortest and clearest route to the edge of
the mob, while they also kept a guard
on his quarry. *
The rising dust and the great heat worried
him a little. He coughed and shook his
head angrily; but, undaunted, he carried
his rider back into the mob again and again,
usually to disappear for a few seconds into
the depths of the thick dust.
Now Walters was riding him into the
mob for his ninety-seventh unbranded calf.
He stood eagerly in the turmoil of dust,
heat and bellowing, with one foreleg half-
raised, waiting for the sign. It came, and
he darted into the screen ahead; but,
unseen, a tiny calf lay crushed to death
almost at his feet. In the murky dust he
hit it and stumbled. The head stockman
shot off in a helpless heap amongst the
flying feet of the cattle, and lay still.
Almost instantly the startled camp-horse
was free of the mob, and in that instant
Ardell, holding guard on the “face” of the
cattle, saw him in his riderless condition,
and guessed at what had befallen.
“My God!” he shouted, and, followed
by Pat Donovan, Alf Eden and two others,
darted on horseback into the mob in search
of his master.
Seconds seemed hours. Cries of horror
and alarm flashed among the men around
the trampling cattle. Ardell’s eager eyes
sought to pierce the dust-clouds.
Where was he? Where was Jim Walters?
Cattle thrust and tossed, horned one
another, bellowed in deep fright, stumbled,
crashed sickeningly. Ardell’s sharp eyes
spied a tom fragment of cloth; and lying
within six feet was Jim Walters. A bullock
snorted at the inert form and leapt high and
away.
“My God!” Ardell exclaimed again, and
prayed that his horse would not take fright.
He slashed at the surging cattle with his
stockwhip and managed to drive the solid
wall back a few feet; but the pressure all
around was terrific. Then he leant down
from the saddle, and with an effort which
sent the blood pounding to his head, he
lifted the inert thirteen stone across his
horse’s withers.
He gasped, and felt dizzy. “Jimmy,
Mister!” he cried pitifully.
He felt oppressed by deadly weights, yet
proud—prouder than ever he had felt
before. He had saved a white man, just as
years before a white man had saved him.
For something told him, as he swore blindly
at the cattle homing and plunging before
him, that the head stockman was not
dead.
Blood was dripping on to the saddle, and
streaking with the white foam on the
horse’s black neck. Ardell could see it and
feel it subconsciously. That blood would
have to be stopped.
The dust lifted, and he discovered the
open claypan before him. Three horsemen
darted towards him.
“Right out into the open, Ardell!”
Ardell commenced to ride towards the
camp, the three tents of which glistened
three hundred yards away. He lifted his
burden into an easier position across the
saddle, and noticed an ugly, oozing bruise
at the base of the skull, the red blood still
dripping down on to the yellow saddle-
cloth. He noticed men riding solemnly
beside Trim, and knew that they knew he
was trying to reach the tents quickly, but
that too much haste might prove fatal.
Three stockmen and the two other black-
boys remained behind to hold the cattle on
the claypan.
They laid him down on a pad of blankets
and empty bags in the ration-tent. Bob
Owen felt the unconscious figure gingerly,
until heavy sweat rolled from him.
“Don’t seem to be many bones broke,”
he muttered. “Serious ones, anyway. We’d
better cut these clothes off.”


sd
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND B. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDEK, Hon. J. A. BOYD.
Total Assets exceed . £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
(2) In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
the Asnociation and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sue. assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost eveiy contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from, men c‘ integrity.
GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
As Sandy Jackson saw the bleeding and
bruised body his face grew grim, and he
commenced to shift quickly about for hot
water and bandages.
CHAPTER XX.
Smoke Signals.
The sun disappeared behind a bank of
black storm-clouds, throwing colored rays
to the angry sky above. It set an hour
later, and darkness drew quickly down.
Lightning flashed across the sky in the
west. A low, almost continuous rumble of
thunder made a weird, impressive accompani-
ment to the heavy moaning of the cattle in
the yards, to the blood-hunting calls of a
pack of dingoes afar off, to the low moans
of Jim Walters fighting for his life in the
ration-tent.
The light of a swinging lantern shone
through the white walls of calico, and a ring
of silent men around the camp-fire smoked
but scarcely moved. The glowing gidya-
coals seemed to hold their attention.
Inside the tent Sandy Jackson and Bob
Owen kept constant watch. The rays from
the lamp cast queer shadows on their faces.
The figure below them stirred almost
imperceptibly.
“Helen!”
The name was scarcely uttered. Sandy
Jackson gazed across at his late enemy.
“Poor Jim—askin’
for Miss Delaney,” he
said reverently. “She’s
the girl he’s gone
batty over.”
Bob Owdn nodded
and leant closer. The
skin on Jim Walters’s
chest was badly
broken, and on his
back it was horribly
ruptured.
At first glance the
injuries appeared to
be cruelly painful;
but there was some-
thing else. Something
with which the simple
ambulance- box
always carried for use
in the stock-camp,
could not cope.
“I’m afraid he’s in a bad way,” Bob
Owen said quietly. “Curse you, Sandy!”
Sandy Jackson looked pained. “I—l
couldn’t help it,” he stammered. “I never
saw the thoroughbrace catch on fire. If I
could carry him to the homestead I’d take
it on—Gawd, I would! I couldn’t stop the
thing burnin’, Bob!”
His voice was filled with pleading.
“We’ve got to get him out of this, any-
way,” Bob Owen declared. “He won’t last
much longer like this.”
A deeper roll of thunder made the night
vibrate. A frightened bellow from the
yards shattered the heavy air; and Bob
left the tent and slowly approached the
camp-fire. The men about it glanced up
in anxious interest, but seemed to expect
him to speak first.
“How is he?” Alf Eden ventured at last.
“Bad!” Bob Owen muttered thickly.
“He’s damn bad—we must get help.”
Through the darkness Ardell approached
within earshot, then paused at the edge of
the circle of flickering light.
“The thoroughbrace is burnt to ashes,”
Bob Owen went on slowly, “and he wouldn’t
live another five minutes slung across a
packhorse. We’ve got to get him to a
hospital—pretty lively, and the nearest is at
Warkon, nearly two hundred and sixty miles
from here by road round the homestead.
Anxiety rested on the faces of the stock-
men. They looked ready to help in any
manner at all.
“Two of you had better saddle up and
ride off to the homestead for Hinton and
his car,” Owen continued. “If you nurse
your horses, you might just about do it.
Take Sparty and Quartpot. They’ll last
the distance out—l think.” He suddenly
seemed to wake—it was as though he had
been speaking to himself. “Alf Eden, will
you and Pat Young go?”
The two men rose quickly. Their faces
showed eagerness.
“Go? Yes, we’ll go.” Alf Eden acted
as speaker. “We’ll be ready in a couple of
minutes. Get Sandy to roll us a bit of
tucker, Bob.”
They disappeared in the darkness in search
of the horses feeding in the timber beyond
the cattle-yards.
Slowly Ardell approached. He seemed a
little apologetic in his manner. He hesi-
tated before the fire.
“What do you want?” Owen asked.
“Big rain coming up fast,” Ardell de-
clared. “Alf and Pat have hard job for get
to homestead. Horse maybe knock up and
die, I think. Too much mud run about
when rain come.”
“I know that—l know that,” Bob mut-
tered. “I thought of all that; but we’ve
got to take the chance, there’s no other
way.”
“I know one way,” Ardell answered;
“but better for Alf and Pat go all-same,
s’pose my way no good.”
“What is your way?” Bob asked with
interest while the men glanced up eagerly.
“ ’Nother boy belong to my tribe at
homestead,” Ardell told them. “When
morning come I climb spinifex hill that
way”—he pointed through the darkness to
where a rugged hill showed out against
distant flashes of lightning. “I light spini-
fex and send up big smoke. I talk message
’long smoke—'white man sick-feller—bad!’
When ’nother boy see smoke signal maybe
“Ardell was excited. Pat followed the direction of his finger.”
him go look for Mr. Hinton and he tell
him all about white man sick—bad. Mr.
Hinton maybe get message quick that way.
Maybe him not get message at all. Luck,
see? But no horse get to homestead in
two—three days when heavy rain come.
Too boggy!”
Bob leant forward eagerly. He drank in
the big blackboy’s words and nodded
quickly.
“You sure you can send the right mes-
sage?” he asked.
“Sure. S’pose Hinton there he get message.
Blackboy at homestead all-time look about
for smoke signal. Me send signal just before
sun come up in the morning.”
“We’re putting a lot of faith in Hinton
being at the homestead with the car,” Owen
answered. “What we want is a good
doctor.”
Alf Eden and Pat Young returned through
the darkness with two horses. They saddled
quickly, and Sandy Jackson handed them
each a parcel of food.
“An’ if you see Miss Delaney,” he, said
quietly to them, “tell her the poor cow’s
yellin’ out for her somethin’ crool. Maybe
she’d like to nurse him.”
They nodded understanding, and turned
to Bob for final instructions.
“You’re bound to be caught in the rain,”
Bob advised them. “It’s coming up, see!
Use your own judgment. You’ve got
almost a hundred and forty miles to the
homestead, and it’s a three-day journey any
time.”
“So long! We’ll make the pace!” The
two men turned away into the darkness of
the night to find the dim track. Lightning
showed them all they required.
Heavy drops of rain commenced to hiss
down, to sizzle in the fire, and to plop in
the dry dust. The lowing of the cattle
became strangely subdued.
It was going to rain, rain heavily; and
none had fallen for many months.
A murmuring swish sounded to westward
long before the storm broke over the camp.
The stockmen moved swiftly about and
placed many articles under cover, and saw
that no water could creep into the' ration
tent.
The noises of the storm grew louder.
Pelting rain hit the camp with a sudden
rattle. It fell in torrents, rebounded and
swirled in a mist in and out of the tents,
and tried to conquer the banked-up fire.
A refreshing coolness came with it.
Jim Walters stirred and murmured again.
The raindrops pounding on the walls of the
tent rattled like a kettle-drum.
Water welled up outside and ran away.
The Eldeetil Waterhole commenced to rise
slowly. Out on the plains the parched
ground drank all it was given. The muddied
liquid poured away down wide cracks, until
after many hours, and when a faint growing
misty light announced approaching day, the
cracks commenced to flood out many centi-
pedes and insects, and to spread water
over the plains.
“I think I go now,” Ardell whispered.
He stood at the door of the ration tent,
and his quiet voice attracted Bob Owen.
“Yes, yes. Better get someone to go with
you. I can’t leave Jim. He’s still got a
kick, lad. He’s just swallowed a drop of
brandy.”
Owen’s voice was a little eager. Pat
Donovan rose from an empty box and fol-
lowed Ardell into the misty dawn. Two
blackboys had horses saddled for them.
They mounted without speaking and rode
into the north, towards the spinifex hill
which loomed up weirdly.
The rain had ceased. The storm had
raced on towards the homestead, and the
sky was clearing quickly.
They passed the tailing-yards, noted the
muddied cattle and the ground where the
moving beasts had trodden down the surface
and almost polished it during the night. Ino
great quantity of water ran about, as
most of it had soaked into the cracked
ground.
At the foot of the hill the country
became treacherous, and a short detour had
to be made. The horses commenced to
blow.
“Alf and Pat Young take long time to
ride to homestead,” Ardell suggested.
Pat Donovan did not answer. He was
glancing up at the steep side of the
spinif ex-covered hill, noting the heavy,
bunchy growths of the spiny plant.
“Smoke signal go more better in early
morning,” Ardell went on. “S’pose you send
smoke signal in hot part of day, mirage
maybe get him and then him look like
just nothing.”
The horses climbed the steep hillside
steadily, grunting with the exertion. At last
Ardell rode out/ on a
clear, level shelf of
some extent. A tree
rose up handily.
•‘We tie yarraman
here,” he suggested.
They fastened their
horses to low snags
on the dead tree, then
clambered still higher
until they reached the
top ridge, whence
they could look down
on a huge draught-
board of plain and
timber five hundred
feet below. Water
glistened in patches.
A sudden crackling
startled Pat Donovan.
He twisted around.
Behind him Ardell
had lit a broad, green
bristling clump of
spinifex. The flames
fed greedily at the
turpentiny growth
and a dense jet-black
column of smoke rose
higher—higher—s till
higher into the sky.
Ardell became en-
thusiastic. He pointed
into the north-west.
The sky was clearing
up, and there was
growing promise of a
clear sunrise.
The column rose in
a straight, thin stem.
It rose like huge
black balls twisting
slowly and twirling on
top of one another,
yet never falling.
Pat Donovan, look-
ing up at the over-
hanging black cloud,
Hanging uiacK cioua,
felt his heart throb quickly with the thrill
and wonder of it. He stood within a few
yards of the burning, rank-smelling, hissing
grass, and marvelled at the density of its
smoke. The column eddied, twisted in a
cross-current of air, turned slowly and
majestically to the south-west, and continued
on, spreading out like a pall above the
world.
Fifty yards to the right Ardell lit another
clump of spinifex, and when its smoke had
eddied straight up almost to a thou-
sand feet, he lit a third fifty yards away
farther up.
Fifteen, twenty, perhaps thirty minutes
passed, and it seemed as though the three
black columns of smoke had flattened out
against the roof of the sky to support the
heavens.
“Pat! Pat! There, you see him—now?”
Ardell was excited. He pointed into the
west. Pat Donovan followed the direction
of his finger.
{Continued on next page. )


A Summer holiday
of rare pleasures
“A Thousand
Things to See and
Do.”
THERMAL MARVELS
Rotorua
LAKES AND FIORDS
Taupo
Manapouri
Waikaremoana
Milford Sound
Dusky Sound
MOUNTAIN GRANDEUR
Mount Cook
Mount Egmont
Tasman Glacier
Franz Joseph Glacier
Tongariro Park
TOURING, CAMPING
GOLF, SWIMMING,
SAILING, FISHING,
SHOOTING
V:
II
Lfflfee&VJ
f
W
SSS
§il!i
. ini
y»
u ui
I-
m
&
3
02 U
Q.
3
X
o
>-
The 9000 ft. high dying
volcano, Mi. Ruapehu
viewed from the new
Chateau in the Tonga.
riro 'National Park.
No Other Trip
Like It
Plan now to come!
“New Zealand is a wonderful country, and all that
is said about it is true,” was the comment made
by Lord Burnham, head of the British Empire
Press Delegation, in 1925. “We have been
shown such extraordinary phenomena that it is
difficult to do justice to them,” he said —yet the
envoys did not see half of the principal scenic
wonders.
/
However, even if a visitor has less than a week
for sightseeing he will be able to enjoy con-
veniently a great variety of beauty, for the
principal towns give easy access to many of the
world-famed localities.
Plan now to take the holiday that will give you a
complete change. Where day follows day of ideal
temperate summer weather. Where every day
brings you to fresh, famous, unforgettable scenes
that others, less fortunately located, are glad to
come from the other side of the earth to see.
Full details and information may be obtained from the following:
MELBOURNE:—Mr. H. J. Manson, Dominion Chambers, 59 William St.
SYDNEY: —Mr. W. R. Blow, London Bank Chambers, 20 Martin Place.
BRISBANE: - Mr. T. E. Dewar, King House, Queen Street.
ADELAIDE:—Mr. Victor H. Ryan, Director of S. Australia Tourist Bureau
PERTH:—Mr. A. S. McClintock, Queen’s Buildings, 285 Murray Street
And the offices of Messrs. Thos. Cook & Son & The Union Steamship Co.
Many miles away a thin spiral of smoke
was rising; and Pat Donovan felt a second
thrill of something he could not define.
“But that is in the opposite direction to
the homestead,” presently he protested. “It’s
away off in the desert. No white man
or motor-car that way.”
Ardell chuckled. “You wait little time.”
His magnificent figure was poised in antici-
pation. Then he stiffened. “There!” he
called loudly, and pointed this time into the
south-west.
In a direct line towards the homestead
a black column seemed to uncoil like a
long snake from the surface of the world,
and to stretch slowly—slowly—very slowly
—up into the sky. A second column
climbed up alongside, then a third, and
Ardell danced in exultation.
“Blackboy sent that up—must belong to
my tribe,” he declared eagerly. “That
signal maybe close up fifty miles away.
Him read it, and pass message on. ’Nother
boy get him maybe and pass him on. Soon
signal-smoke be at Boolgooroo, and maybe
if blackboy belong to my tribe sit down
Warkon way, then maybe Warkon get
smoke-signal, too. Smoke-signal keep on
going now for long way until him get to
country where only boy belong to mother
tribe sit down and no can read him.”
Pat Donovan watched the whole impres-
sive scene in reverent silence. He was
deeply moved.
Something was laying hold of the land.
In the course of an hour other signals rose,
mostly in the south-eastern quarter, until
eight lots of signals had built their, black
columns to the sky; and it was noticeable
that those directly in line with the Boolgoo-
roo homestead were made up of three dis-
tinct columns. It seemed as though those
who controlled them knew that the body
and text of the message lay in the three
columns, and it was no use relaying the
signals on in any direction where they would
do no good.
Down towards the Eldeetil Waterhole the
cattle could be seen moving quietly in the
tailing-yards; and nearer the waterhole the
three large tents of the stock-camp showed
white and distinct. Men stood around
the fire evidently just finishing breakfast,
but one and all seemed to gaze out towards
the spinifex hill.
As the clouds dispersed the heat grew
again, and hot vapor rose from the ground
“It’s going to rain worse before the day’s
out,” Pat Donovan said gloomily. “This
mugginess is a sure, sign.”
At last half the top of the spinifex hill
had gone up in smoke, and two columns had
merged into one. A soft breeze blew up
and flattened them down until the effect
of the signal was totally destroyed.
One by one the rising wind caught the
other columns far out till they dis-
appeared.
“No matter,” Ardell declared eagerly.
“Homestead got plenty of time for get
signal by now. ' Motor-car come all right
s’pose he can get through bog.”
As Pat Donovan rode alongside Ardell
back to the camp he wondered whether the
message had been received, and whether, if
it, had been, it would be possible for a car
to plough out from the homestead.
(To be continued next week.)
The Brown Witch.
The clouds had grown sober
Round yellow October;
And tne mild little rain
Kissed the grass-stems again
In the green of a day
When the winds ceased to play
With the . high dripping leaves.
Then the stars, like white thieves,
Came and stole the black night
In their small hands of light.
Wet rose-petals fluttered,
Pale white, to the ground;
And I heard the earth speaking
And knew the low sound:
“I have treasures long hidden —-
And- ripe for the seeking —
In valleys forbidden
To all save the wise.
Where the brown oak-tree sighs
To the stream in the hollow
A bold foot can folloio
The signs of the air.
There are words written there
With a, finger of light
By the moonshine to-night.”
I heard and I went
Under great trees that bent
To moon-burdens of shine,
Under creepers a-twine
And brown rocks with wet faces
That leaned from their places
To peer through the gloom.
There were bushes in bloom,
Full of darkness and scent
By the way that I went,
And brown oaks in the hollow,
Till the path I would follow
Seemed faded and spent.
And my quest ended there
In a great rift of air....
I saw the stream leap,
But the chasm was too deep
For my strained ear to tell
Where the soft water fe11....
“I have treasures long hidden
In valleys forbidden,
Where the blue airs lie deep.
A bold foot can follow
The stream in the hollow
To my wonder of sleep!”
Through the dark ways and sober
Of windless October
I came with hot breath
From that valley of death.
The tall trees flashed whitely
Wet leaves in the sprightly
Thin glow of the moon ;
And I heard the sap croon
Under bark through their boles
The brave song of their souls:
"Keep the Brown Witch a slave!
There are blue days to save
From her lure and her longing,
From her treasure of sleep
And the dreams that come thronging,
Full of secrets too deep
For the stars round your head.
How pale are her lovers!
With brown arms she covers
Her passionate dead.
Our young leaves grow crisper,
We heed not her whisper
To roots creeping red;
For our comrade, the sun,
Has the warm years to run ....
And she loves but the dead!”
On the breast of the hill
A bird, sleepy and shrill,
Cried out thrice and was still;
And the moon, chaste and sober,
Walked white o’er October
With tasks to fulfil.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT
Ploughing the Meadowlands.
The morning air is wine.
A cuckoo calls from some green wonderland ;
And the long bars of mellow pale sunshim
Touch my glad face.
Below me and across the meadowland,
My man, my toiler, breaks the fragran
mould.
Gravely and steadily the horses pace.
Till the brown furrows flow back, fold 01
fold.
I shade my laughing eyes,
And watch him turn the long-tailed dapple
team;
The sun slants on their glossy flanks an<
thighs.
Wisely they turn,
Great sleek slow-stepping beauties, with
the gleam
Of light upon the shadow of their manes.
One bends to snatch a mouthful of sweet fen,
Taking his liberty of loosened reins.
I see the burnished share a
Earth polished, flash with silver suddenness
Until once more the brown mould hides it:
glare.
The furrow flows.. . .
And with a rush of woman tenderness
I hear him singing, as with strong youn;
hands
He guides the plough, and his song mush
blows
To me across the sweet brown meadow-land
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.
THE SADDLERY AND HARNESS TRAVELLER WHO STRAYED INTO THE
PETROL SALESMEN’S CONFERENCE.


ALEMITE
Systems of Lubrication
*
for
PLANTATION
and
FARM
Implements and Machinery
X
r T“'HE same lubricating efficiency as is used
in the modern motor car can now be
installed in machinery and implements used
on plantations and farms.
The Alemite Systems insure correct lubri-
cation because they force in the new lubricant
under a pressure of from 500 to 5000 pounds
per square inch, forcing out at the same time
the old gritty, worn-out grease.
An Inexpensive System
to Install
Alemite or Alemite Push Type Fittings (the
valves through which the lubricant is forced
into the bearings) can easily be installed on
any piece of machinery to which the old style
grease cups are attached. All that is neces-
fsd
sary is to unscrew the
old cups and screw in
the Alemite fittings.
The fittings cost only
a few pence.
Plantation and Farm
equipment run much
better and last much longer when equipped
with Alemite.
ALEMITE MANUFACTURING CORPORATION
Division of Stewart-Warner
Chicago, U. S. A.
Full Particlars from
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH
Resident Manager,
250 Pitt Street, Sydney. N. S. W.
Or from the following Representatives :
Bennett & Wood, Ltd 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
Motor Supplies, Ltd Brisbane
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd 894 Hay Street, Perth
E* A. Machin & Co., Ltd. . 535 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
Cornell Limited, 122 Pirie Street, Box G.P.0.,496 E. Adelaide
For the Dominion of New Zealand:
Jas. J. Niven & Co., 152 Wakefeld, Street, Wellington, N. Z.
JRK
The Judgment of Solomon.
E. HIVES
A NORTH QUEENSLANDER, FOR SOME YEARS PAST A
RESIDENT COMMISSIONER IN NIGERIA, WRITES THIS VERY ENTER-
TAINING STORY OF A MAGISTRATE’S JOB IN THAT TERRITORY.
G. LUMLEY IS HIS COLLABORATOR.
THE District Commissioner was presid-
ing over the deliberations of the Native
Council in the courthouse, a mud-
walled, grass-roofed building, recently erected
by the natives of Mbonga.
He sat on the raised “dais of justice,”
his shirt sleeves rolled above liis elbows and
his arms resting on spread-out sheets of
blotting-paper, which absorbed the perspira-
tion that ran from every pore. Above his
head a crazy punkah creaked dangerously
each time the boy whose job it was to keep
it going wakened up afresh to a sense of
responsibility.
The Commissioner was smoking furiously
with the dual object of driving away the
persistent flies and of drowning, smothering
or disguising the acrid odor of perspiring
black humanity that pervaded the building,
despite the fact that its walls left off four
feet below the eaves.
The courthouse was crowded, and outside
hundreds of nearly-nude, savage-looking men
and women pressed forward, eager to hear
what was going on, at the same time, by
their continual chattering, making this im-
possible.
Court messengers, in blue dungaree blouses
and shorts, endeavored to maintain silence
by tapping the heads of the more vociferous
with their canes, while the interpreter, call-
ing the next case, raised his voice to its
highest pitch in order to make himself
audible above the din.
Just below the District Commissioner sat
four chiefs; barbaric figures attired mostly
in ivory bracelets and brightly-colored beads.
Below these again was the native court
clerk, a “sawy-book” man from more civil-
ised regions, who looked contemptuously at
all these “bushmen.”
And bushmen they certainly were, for the
town had only recently been established as
a Government station. Twelve months be-
fore it had been a Ju-ju centre and the
scene of many a cannibal orgy. Now they
were learning, step by step, the meaning of
British law and justice.
Partial silence was at length obtained, and
the clerk read out the next case on the list;
the interpreter rendering it sentence by sen-
tence into the local dialect.
It was a civil case, and was a claim made
by a woman to be the mother of a boy of
about six years of age. This claim was dis-
puted by another woman, who stated the
child was hers.
It appeared that when the punitive expedi-
tion and the subsequent patrol which had
pacified the country had advanced on the
town, many of the people had fled and not
all had returned. The boy whose parentage
was in dispute was presumed to be one
of these, because he remembered having lived
in the town before, but could not give his
parents’ names. He had just wandered in
from where he had been living, owing pos-
sibly to ill-treatment by strangers who would
naturally look upon him as their slave.
The first woman to make the claim had
lost a male child during the flight, and,
hearing there was a noy wandering about,
had immediately seized him and taken him
to her hut. The other woman, who had had
the same intention but had been forestalled,
went to the hut and endeavored to drag the
boy away. Then the trouble had begun. The
two ladies flew at each other with teeth
and nails, soon losing what little raiment
they wore, and were presently rolling on
the ground, biting, scratching and mouth-
ing epithets that would have made a Billings-
gate fish-porter wince. Then the friends and
relations of the contending parties joined
in the fray, and made such a row that it
woke up the native constable, who “pro-
ceeded to the spot,” and with difficulty res-
cued the bone of contention, bringing him to
the court, being followed thereto by a curs-
ing, swearing, sweating mob of women in
various stages of deshabille.
Partial order having been restored, the
first lady demanded a summons against the
second for trying to steal her child. Where-
upon the second lady countered by clamoring
for a summons against the first for having
stolen her child.
The District Commissioner, scenting an
interesting episode, revived, and for a time
forgot the heat and flies. He was a con-
scientious man and took his position seri-
ously, but his job was generally dull; con-
sequently any little change from the eternal
assaults and “woman palaver” cases was a
very welcome distraction.
Cross-summonses having been duly issued
to the opposing parties, their numerous wit-
nesses were ordered out of court, and the
boy brought in for examination.,
The poor little wretch was trembling with
fear, evidently thinking that his last
moments had arrived, and expecting nothing
else than to be killed and eaten, according
to the customs of his people. But presently,
when the expected did not happen and the
acuteness of his dread had passed, he real-
ised that the white man was speaking to
him, through the interpreter, and that the
white man’s words were kindly and sym-
pathetic. He was told not to be afraid," that
no harm would befall him, but that he must
answer truthfully the questions put to him.
This he did to the best of his ability, at
the same time keeping a wary eye on his
possible mothers, who were gesticulating,
wringing their hands and shedding copious
crocodile tears. But he was unable to tell
“is “other’s name, or perhaps he feared one
of his captors might happen to bear the one
that floated hazily through his befogged
brain, and that the mention of it might
cause him to be handed over to her willv-
mlly. 1
. He could only say that he had been living
in a town—whose name he could not recol-
“ct —situated about two days’ journey from
Mbonga There he had had no particular
abode, but obeyed certain people who gave
him food, he in return bringing them "fire-
wood from the bush and water from the
spring. One day he had followed some
native traders, who did not discourage him,
doubtless hoping to sell him when they had
taken him far enough away. In their com-
pany he had arrived at Mbonga, and by some
instinct had recognised it as the place of
his birth. He therefore had hidden him-
self until the traders had departed, and on
emerging from his place of concealment had
been promptly seized by the first claimant to
parenthood, whom he stated he had never
seen before. Nor had he any recollection
of his second captor, or memory of the par-
ticular part of the town in which his infan-
tile days had been passed; all he could
remember was that there was a Ju-ju pond
near. And that indicated nothing, because
there were many villages which had Ju-ju
ponds, the homes of the sacred crocodiles
that were fed on young children and on
the staked bodies of too-successful lovers of
chiefs’ wives.
The situation having been explained to
the four chiefs who were there as assessors—
that is, to give their views on any matter
relating to native custom —they nodded their
heads portentously, saying that they knew
there would be “plenty big lie palaver.”
The two claimants, who had been kept
away from each other by the court messen-
gers, were now pushed into separate com-
partments, their witnesses still remaining
out of court, and the first one was asked
to state her case. This she did with alac-
rity and volubility; and from her almost
unceasing flow of words the distracted inter-
preter managed to piece together enough to
render the case into English.
“Oh, white man,” said the lady, “you who
know everything, that boy is my son. I
bore him myself, and with these”—pointing
to her flat and leathery breasts —“I fed him.
Long time since, when soldiers come, I lost
him. That daughter of an unknown but cer-
tainly disreputable father has never borne
a son. She is a mother of goats.”
“You lie! You lie! You daughter of a
baboon and a stinking she-goat,” shrieked
the second claimant.
“Silence!” ordered the court messenger,
tapping her on the head by no means lightly.
“All the people of Mbonga know I talk
true words,” continued the first woman. “I
get hundreds of witnesses outside who could
tell you that this boy is my son. Give me
my son; that goat-bearing woman of in-
famous reputation shall never nave him —
no,, never! He is my son, he is my son.”
This last sentence she kept on reiterating
until silenced—native fashion. Then the
assessors intimated that they wished to ask
some questions, which they put through the
District Commissioner as the presiding
official.
How do you know the boy is your
was asked.
I lost a boy; this one was found; -so
he must be my son.”
“Can you describe any birth-marks, or
anything else by which you can identify
him?”
"Yes, plenty.”
“Show them to the Court.”
Hie claimant then proceeded to examine
the Doy who, of course, was in a state of
complete nudity, and who shrank timorously
from her. She pointed to a small wound in
the left leg, obviously a recent one, possibly
made by a mattock not many days before,
and stated: “Here is a mark' which I saw
the day I bore the child.”
The assessors examined the mark and
shook their grey, woolly heads. “She lies ”
the spokesman said simply.
This being the only mark on the boy’s skin,
the claimant again became voluble, refusing
to answer any more questions, and repeat-
ing over and over, “This is my son ! This is
my son!”
Her witnesses were then called, only three
being allowed out of a score or more who
had volunteered, all of whom were relatives
and who were anxious that another male
member should be added to their family. They
gave their evidence singly—that is, while the
others were out of the courthouse—but
none of them could substantiate the claim,
the burden of their tales being that the boy
must be the son of the claimant because
she had lost a boy and this one was found
Having listened patiently to these three the
assessors remarked that the claimant and
her witnesses were all fools, and the second
claimant loudly agreed with them, until
silenced again. She had fully expected
that, upon the discrediting of the other side,
the boy would be at once handed over to
her, and was now greatly disappointed when
she found that this was not to be —so dis-
appointed, in fact, that she had again to be
silenced.
She was then told to prove her claim,
which she started to do, after much licking
of the Ju-ju, calling upon it to paint her
all colors of the rainbow and to cause her
to suffer the tortures of the damned if she
did not speak the truth.
H'er statement was a mere repetition of
that of the first claimant; and she also, being
unable to find any other mark, pointed to
the partly-healed wound on the boy’s leg,
adding that she herself made it on the date
of his birth so that she could recognise him
at any time as her child.
Then her witnesses were called. They
were also three in number, and were as
vague in their evidence as the opposing ones.
The assessors were puzzled, and the Dis-
trict Commissioner was equally so. He
asked if there was anyone else in court who
could throw any light on the matter; but as
all the rest of the interested parties were
outside, no one came forward.
Then an idea flashed into his brain. Among
the. articles on the table in front of him—
which included various Ju-jus for swearing-
1P witnesses—was a cheap edition of the
Bible, kept there for administering the oath
m case any Christianised natives nad to be
examined. He remembered that in this
book a case is described which resembled
very closely that now before him. King
bolomon was a wise judge, and had known
how to solve tne problem.
(Continued on page 49.)


■/m
V
\ih<£i
TA
iiM
£
"A
%
¥
sJrt ft
V/^K
A
\nl,
/
■ 9
w
w/
w
/
r& "j
K*
«*ym
■ :
SE
SB#
>£
/
a
&
N
r
i^s
'£o*U
w
FRANK
WHITMORE.
H/r fW'rrmr
mr
>H\\
turn
erves another
A GOOD motorist is ever equipped to meet every
emergency . . . with tools for the minor troubles of a
motor car—and refreshment for the Samaritan who helps
him with a tiring job. Adequate compensation for a good
turn by the wayside is a brimming glass of cool“K.B.”
Always carry a bottle or two as part of your touring kit.
TOOTHS
KB
OL
LAGER
BREWED
AND BOTTLED BY TOOTH * CO. LIMITED, KENT BREWERY, SYDNEY


m
u
■ ■■
,
NOW NEATLY CASED at same price f
A strongly-made grained-leather case is now provided with every Plum
Razor, at no increase in cost. With its blade set to perfection—guaran-
teed and kept in order for two years free—the Plum Razor shaves cleanly,
easily, quickly—leaves the most delicate skin smooth and comfortable.
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 „
Real Ivory Handle 21/- „
Satin-lined double case free with pair.
7-day Sets—7 Razors in Case.
Black, 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory, 140/-
Post free to any address.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
PDT v
There are seven
reasons why
V
Guinness
IS GOOD FOR YOU
No. 5
FOR
THE BLOOD
Guinness is good
for the blood* It
contains valuable
phosphates which
enrich the blood,
and it also clears
the blood by keeping the system in
good working order. For this reason
Guinness is good for the complexion*
Guinness is a delicious beverage—-
naturally matured. It preserves the
natural virtues of the barley, barley
malt, hops and yeast, which, with
the addition of water, are its sole
constituents.
N.B.—One pint of Guinness Foreign Extra Stout has a malt car.
bohydrate content equal to one and a half pints of pure dairy milk.
G E 9 F /O
The assessors could not assist him. All
they could do was to scratch and expectorate,
murmuring the while that claimants and wit-
nesses were all liars and the descendants of
many generations of liars. •
The District Commissioner, addressing the
spokesman, said: “You are assessors, and
must give your opinion. That is what you
are here for.”
The four then filed out of court, and,
after an absence of about ten minutes,
returned again and resumed their seats.
“Have you arrived at any decision?” they
were asked.
The spokesman stood up, cleared his
throat, spat, scratched himself in three
places, and said: “We have consulted together
and have decided, knowing the tempers of
the two claimants, that it would be best for
the District Commissioner to decide, he being
very wise. Also he cannot be troubled by
these women afterwards.”
Then the District Commissioner, taking
the Bible from the table, held it up and
said: “In this book is described a case
similar to the one now being tried, and judg-
ment was given by the wisest man that ever
lived.”
“What did this father of wise men say?”
asked an assessor.
“To prove which was the rightful mother
of the child he ordered that it should be
cut in two, and half given to each woman,”
answered the District Commissioner.
The interpreter had barely finished trans-
lating this when every man and woman in
the court was loudly shouting approval, not
excepting the two claimants, who, indeed,
were louder than any in their praise of the
suggested method.
Before the astonished white man could
realise what was happening, the two women
were out of their boxes, and had seized the
shrinking, screaming boy and laid him on
the table. And, almost as if he had been
waiting for the job, there appeared a huge
almost naked man, who brandished a shin-
ing mattock. He was the town’s executioner.
Spitting on his hands, he advanced, a look
of keen anticipation in his eyes, while hold-
ing his formidable weapon at the ready.
In a moment the District Commissioner
realised that this was no farce, but the
real thing. He sprang from his seat to the
front of the table and grasped the raised
arm of the executioner, at ’he same time
calling loudly for the members of the native
police who were in the court; and these,
disappointed though they were at this stop-
page of the spectacle they had hoped to
enjoy, came promptly to the white man’s
assistance, and, after a struggle, succeeded
in disarming the bloodthirsty savage.
In the meantime the two “mothers,” tak-
ing the opportunity thus given, seized the
boy as he lay on the table, one by an arm
and the other by a leg, and pulled their
hardest. The unfortunate victim screamed
loudly, adding to the pandemonium that
already reigned in the court, while the surg-
ing crowd without pressed to get inside.
Here, they thought, was a District Commis-
sioner after their own hearts, one who had
no silly prejudices against age-long customs.
Here was one who was willing to provide
a proper spectacle; even a feast ofttender
human flesh such as it had not been possible
to openly indulge in since the adventjof the
soldiers.
But those already in the courthouse had
realised that it was' not to be, and loud were
their murmurs of disappointment as the
white man snatched a staff of office from
the hands of one of the assessors, and with
it cleared a space around the table. Then
he used it lustily over the heads of the
two furies who were trying to pull the
shrieking child in two, causing them to let
go. Whereupon they fell to, rolling on the
floor, biting; scratching, and doing their
best to gouge out each other’s eyes!
The witnesses who were in court joined
in, and the mglee became general until, obey-
ing the orders of the Commissioner, the
police succeeded in separating the combat-
ants and clearing the court; only the asses-
sors, the interpreter, a couple of constables,
the boy and his two “mothers” remaining,
each constable holding a struggling jwoman
in leash.
One of the assessors, who had hitherto
taken little part in the proceedings, save
to applaud the proposed “test,” now asked
why the judgment of the famous wise man
had not been carried out, and felt very
injured when the Commissioner, his dress in
disarray and his temper exceedingly short,
gave him a .succinct opinion of himself and
his fitness for an assessor’s job.
The whole affair had happened too sud-
denly, and events had succeeded each other
so rapidly, that the would-be Solomon was
a little bewildered as yet. He glared at
the assessors, who squirmed in their seats
under his accusing eye. They had nothing
to say, and could not help him out of the
ridiculous situation. He collected his scat-
tered wits and began to consider what had
to be done. The case had to be decided,
otherwise his reputation would suffer. He
wondered what King Solomon would have
done in such circumstances, what the
“father of wise men” would have said if
he had been confronted not only by the
acquiescence of both parties to the proposed
division of the child, but by the unholy
joy of the whole people at the prospect of
a real judicial sacrifice. He had expected
things to happen in the orthodox way, and
that one of the “mothers” would have given
up her claim to save the child’s life. But
neither of them had thought of such a thing;
both had been far too eager to see the poor
little wretch slaughtered.
Now, turning to the assessors, he said:
“Oh, fools! You are not fit to l .' assessors.
You ought to have known perfectly well
that the Government would not allow such
an act to be done. Why did you not wait
to hear what the Wise One did? Now, hear
what I have to say. If either of these
women had been the mother of the boy, she
would have given up her claim to him sooner
than see him killed. Both of them were
willing that he should die, and that proves
that neither of them is the mother. Both
of them have lied, and their witnesses have
lied.”
“We know that they are all liars,” said
the spokesman of the assessors. “It was as
we said at the beginning of the case. But
if neither of the women is the mother, what
shall be done with the boy?”
“The decision of the Court is that the
child’s mother shall be presumed dead,”
answered the District Commissioner. “There-
fore the Government will be his father and
his mother. He will be sent to the mission
school in Calabar, where he will be taught
wisdom —which is more than his fathers
ever had.”
The assessors grunted, did some more
scratching, expectorated, and then decided
that it would be wise to applaud the decision.
Howeyer much they had been disappointed
at the non-culmination of the trial in the
agreeable way first proposed, they realised
that it had freed them from the necessity
of giving advice that would have caused
the emptying on them of the vials of wrath
of one or other of the two black claimants.
When the people outside heard the 1 result
of the. trial they also applauded, blit for a
different reason. They thought it good
policy, for no man among them knew when
the time would come when it would be his
turn to stand in front of this white man in
court and be urgently in need of his good
offices.
The next morning the boy, after having
been renamed Solomon, left for Calabar in
charge of an intelligent constable, who bore
a letter to the chief of the mission station,
in which the circumstances of the case were
explained, with a request that the ward of t' ->
Government should be fed, educated a.
clothed, the cost to be covered by the grant
to the institution.
It was not till long afterwards that the
Commissioner heard how his action had been
construed by the people of his district 1 ; they
firmly believed that he had used his authority
to acquire the boy, and had then sold him as
a slave!
True, they had thought none the worse of
him for it, because it was exactly what they
would have done themselves had the oppor-
tunity' been theirs and they had been clever
enough to think of it.
If Miracles Happened.
HENRY MOSTYN
AND IN THIS STORY
MAKES US BELIEVE THAT
THEY DO HAPPEN.
THE nurse looked at her patient. He lay
on his back, hands clasped] across
his breast —very still. So still that
the uninformed might have thought him dead.
But the nurse knew better. Sometiines he
lay for days in this state of coma, rousing
only at rare intervals.
She slid a hand into the front of her
uniform and drew out a photo. Leaning for-
ward in her chair she framed it in he: hands
and gazed at it intently, yearningly. Then
she took her pen and wrote swiftly.
“It’s tough luck, Hugh darling, very
tough. Everything set for Christmas together,
and now no hope. For there isn’t, old thing,
—not an earthly. I can’t leave h.m. I
know him better than anyone else new, and
he’s used to me, and to have a strange 1 round
him ’d be plain hell. You wouldn’: want
me to deny him the little comfort tie can
have before the end. I know you wouldn’t.
That’s why you’ll understand when 1 write
and tell you that the holiday’s of, and
you’ll have to go without me.”
She felt cold for a few moments, a tumbled
look in her eyes.
“I hope you will understand, old son,”
she wrote on. “I know it seems capricious
and stupid; but really it wasn’t mv fault.
Nobody dreamt, when I took the case, that
he’d be here at Christmas. I thought they’d
have operated long before, or that if they
didn’t Well, they didn’t, and ht’s still
on deck, so it’s no use talking. Yqti poor
old fellow, lie’s got a good chance of temain-
ing on deck for some time, too; so God
knows when we’ll see each other again.
Because I won’t leave him. I’ve it
on, and I’ll stick it out—even if you don’t
understand! But you will! You "must!”
For some time she sat staring straight in
front of her, the photo lying unheeded in
her lap. Finally she roused, put it hack in
the front of her uniform, cast anothfcr look
at her patient, and glided noiselessly from
the room.
While she was away not a quivef nor a
sign of life passed over the ashen face, its
fine lines unmarred—thanks to the nurse—
by any unsightly stubble, and gleaming like
polished marble. But the eyes opened as she
passed through the door, and gazed tiredly
after her for a fleeting second before they
closed again.
In a moment or two she was back. Seating
herself again on the chair by the bed she
wrote again, rapidly, pausing every now and
again to glance sideways, with a bird-like
movement, at her charge. She finished four
sheets and addressed an envelope. Had she
been looking at the bed at that moment she
would have seen a pair of grey eyes watching
her intently.
As she picked up the envelope he spoke
weakly: “Nurse!”
She rose and bent over him. “What is it’”
“In the dining-room little table on the
left there’s a photo—silver frame. Mav
I have it?”
She slipped from the room. His eyes fol-
lowed her out. The moment she had gone
he took up the letter, lying within easy
reach on his bedside table, and read the
address:—
Dr. Hugh Marden,
East-street,
Leeton Yale.
He put the letter back, and when the
nurse returned lie was staring wide-eyed at
the ceiling. She put the photo, into his
hands, and resumed her seat.
Dr. Hugh Marden, Leeton Yale Where
the deuce was Leeton Vale? Down on the
south coast somewhere, wasn’t it? Little
one-horse place. Hardly be much of a doc-
tor who’d set up there. Fool! As if that
mattered! What earthly chance was there,
anyhow? One man could make little worse
hash of it than another....
But what madness was this he was con-
templating? Surely if there was to be an
operation Peters was the man to do it
Why else had he brought him a thousand
(Continued on next page.)


Made by theWoilds
expert craftsmen
Every Kropp Razor turned out at
Sheffield, England, is hand-forged from
solid bars of steel. Kropp means razor
perfection—a far keener edge than you
get with ordinary
cast steel or
machine - stamped
razors. Buy a
Kropp and enjoy
shaving comfort for
a lifetime.
tost
u
T
&
C lhe
KROPP
never requites grinding
Individually tested, and fully guaranteed. Black,
Ivory or Xylonite handles. From the usual dealers.
Wholesale only: OSBORNE GARRETT & CO., LTD., London, England.
ALL-BRITISH '
AVOID
SUBSTITUTES:
Every genuine
Kropp stamped
“ Made and
ground in
Sheffield,
England"
V
m
•
:
222
“ I find 'Rexona Soap
invaluable for my skin
and hair.”
EVE WILLIAMS.
Guard Skin Beauty!
A woman is most often judged by her complexion and
hair, and does that not generally create an impression of
her true personality ? If your skin or hair tells the story
of neglect or thoughtless habits, does it not give a bad
impression ? Care for yourself, and the world will care
for you —give your hair and complexion that attention
which is so invaluable to you.
Use Rexona Soap daily, and you will soon be astonished
with the improvement.
You will fully experience how soft and smooth the
skin becomes when you use this delightful Soap—how
clear the complexion, how soft, silky and lustrous the hair.
An economical dainty luxury—Rexona, the Aristocrat
of Soaps.
Price If per tablet
m
vS.JVo'':
1
1
1
mm
11)
for Health and Beauty
RSIOR
miles from Sydney to the station? But
Peters didn’t want to do it. What had he
said: “Not a chance in a million, that I
can see. . Even if the growth were young
enough or so fortunately placed to be
completely removable —which it isn’t —you
wouldn’t stand the anaesthetic. If it were
anywhere else I’d say you had a chance ;*
but in the thoracic organs, and pushing the
heart out of place as it has been these
many months—no!” He had asked: “With-
out the operation—how long?” And Peters
had told him: “A matter of months. Per-
haps six, though I doubt it.” Queer how
one clung to life! He remembered saying
obstinately, insistently: “Then there’s abso-
lutely no chance of the operation proving
successful?” “If a miracle happened,” was
the blunt reply. “And in surgery they don’t.
Frankly, I’d sooner not take it _ on—but
please yourself and make your choice.”
That had been three months ago. He had
made his choice —then. To stick it out,
for the moment at least. And now what was
he contemplating? To be operated on, not
by Peters, or by any of the great surgeons,
but by a raw unknown youth wdiom he had
never set eyes on—whose name he had never
even seen except once on a letter! Could
criminal imbecility go further?
Yet was it, after all? He was haying
his choice again. How would he decide?
He’d made his trial of the one alternative —
three months of it —and it hadn’t been very
wonderful. Neither was the vista of lying
here another three six months. Lying
like a log, but without the log’s blessed insen-
sibility to pain. To pass out under an anaes-
thetic, knowing and feeling nothing, wasn’t
a bad finish.
But that didn’t excuse his going to. this
chap Marden. Perhaps not; but why shouldn’t
he? If there was no chance in any case, why
not give the fee to a man who needed it,
instead of to Peters, who didn’t. Mentally
he shook himself. Why not be honest? Why
not admit that if he didn’t do this thing for
the little nurse’s sake, then assuredly it
would be Peters! No harm in admitting
it to himself, surely—so long as no one else
suspected it! Hang it all, it was Christmas,
wasn’t it? There weren’t many gifts he
could give—nor many to give them to. Of
those now left in the world lie owed most
to this little nurse. And what was she giving
him? Wasn’t she prepared to give up seeing
her lover —put off her marriage, for aught
he knew —just to save him the trifling dis-
comfort of a stranger? Prepared, too, to
risk a row with her lover! She hadn’t
told him the whole story, but he had pieced
many small fragments together.
Well, he’d give her the Christmas box in-
stead. After all, it happened to few men to have
the legal right to dispose of their lives when
and how it suited them, and to fewer 'still
to be able to do someone a good turn in the
process. Really, it was an excellent idea all
round! He gained release, which would not
be the least of boons. The little nurse got
her lover, the lover got a job and a chance,
and even Peters scored, in that his reputa-
tion would be asked to bear one less hopeless
case. So much for the probabilities; so much
for the worst that could happen. As for
the best, that presupposed the miracle, and
he mustn’t think of that. But just suppos-
ing! Then his gift to the little nurse would
he all the greater; a gift indeed worth hav-
ing—for the operation would make her man
for life. It’d be a decent _ return for the
new lease of healthy life he’d get out of it
himself —surely a better and more, worthy
return, whether to the humans or to the
powers that be, than adding another laurel
to Peters’s well-clothed crown? But that,
of course, was all speculation, and getting
away from the main thing, which was that,
however things went, the little nurse would
have her lover for Christmas.
He stirred, and in a moment she was
bending over him. He stared up at her
unthinkingly. “Sit here,” he ordered, patting
the side of the bed. Her pretty face puckered
a moment in doubt. She sat down.
“I’m going to be operated on,” he an-
nounced. “By Dr. Hugh Marden, East-street,
Leeton Vale!”
She flushed crimson. “You’re not! ’ she
cried.
“I am,” he insisted stubbornly. “You can
start getting me ready to-morrow.”
“You’d never stand the journey, for one
thing,” she told him.
“Oh yes, I would. Peters wanted me to
go to Sydney. This is shorter and easier.”
“He wouldn’t do it,” she continued.
“He’s got to,” the old man maintained.
“He’s got no right to refuse if I want it
done.”
“He couldn’t, anyway,” she lied flatly.
“Look,” he said finally. “I tell you that
if he doesn’t do it, nobody shall!”
There was a break in her voice when next
she spoke. Only for tears being so extremely
unprofessional one might have seen them
glisten in the wide grey eyes. “You’re doing
this for me!” she challenged him. Once
again the flame flooded her face. “But you
shan’t! You know what Sir Joshua Peters
said. You shan’t throw your life away for
me!”
“It’s my life,” he reminded her. “And
I don’t value it much —as it is now. But
while you’re on the subject, can’t you remem-
ber what else Peters said? He said that a
miracle could save me. What if I tell you
I’m playing for that miracle? What if I
tell you that I’ve got a hunch—call it what
you like—that that miracle will be performed
through this man Marden, and through no one
else ! Dying people have them, you know!”
She shook her head. “I don’t believe
y0u.... And yet,” she continued —“well, if
you will, he won’t make a bad mess of it.
I couldn’t stand that. But you couldn’t pos-
sibly know that Hugh—Dr. Marden, I mean
—was almost exceptionally good on the chest
and heart; in fact, only lack of money pre-
vented him from going on and specialising in
it... . I wonder”. ... She scrutinised him
a moment, clear-eyed, grave. “Can you give
me your word of honor that you really do
feel all you said —that Dr. Marden can save
you ? That you’re not doing this just for my
sake?”
“I can,” he lied, steadily and unhesitatingly.
She rose with a decisive movement. “Then
that settles it —we haven’t the right to deny
you the chance! I’ll make arrangements in
the morning. And now you must sleep.”
;Ji $ H* '"fi
“Hugh, do you think there’s a chance at
all?”
The white-robed young doctor looked away
before replying: “Well,” he said slowly, “you
know what Peters said. If a miracle hap-
pens” .... his voice faded away.
“Then a miracle must happen!” she cried
vehemently. “God, it must! He did all this
for me!”
She dropped on her knees by the side of
the bed and bowed her face in her hands.
After a second’s hesitation and a sharp
glance at the unconscious figure on the bed,
the young- doctor rather shamefacedly knelt
down beside her. In a few moments he rose
and touched her on the shoulder. “Bring
him in,” he ordered.
She glanced at him in surprise. His
voice, clear and incisive, had a peculiar ring
—a sort of suppressed exultation—which she
bad never heard before. She noticed, too,
that whereas a moment ago he had been tense
and under strain, he was now icily calm.
Wondering, she wheeled the patient in.
* * $ *
“Extraordinary case, that of old Willcox,”
said Dr. Curack thoughtfully. “Wasn’t he
under you at one time, Peters?”
“Yes,” replied the great surgeon slowly.
“He was. Extraordinary, all right. To
remove, from a man of 62, a deep-seated
growth pressing on the heart; to restart the
heart beating three times by massage after
it had stopped; and to effect a complete
cure- —all done by an untried youngster!
Extraordinary—if that’s the word !”
“What other is there?”
Sir Joshua Peters stroked his chin. “Well,
if miracles happened in surgery, I’d say this
was one!”
The Red Coat.
Beside the heap of smouldering fire
The poor old woman sits —
Old Madeleine with high-veined hands
And hardly any wits.
Her skirt drags down a rusty-green,
Her boots are torn and spread,
But over her thin shoulder-blades
There hangs a coat of red.
A coat that takes the light and flings
It back derisively—
A mocking note that challenges
Old age and penury!
And color-blind no longer I
See poor old Madeleine.
I only vision splendid things,
Old passions that have been !
Old pomps and gallantries of youth
Go by; her voice is drowned
In laughter like a waterfall,
In bursts of marching sound!
Gay ribbons wave from crowded walls,
Tap-tap go dancing shoon;
A stooping, long-faced fiddler plays
Beneath a harvest moon.
So gay the coat of Madeleine
Around her shoulders flung,
I know that, though her eyes are old,
Her heart is young, so young!
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.
Atalanta.
Wind, you have neither breast nor hands
nor feet;
You are a stream that flows now slow,
now fleet;
You are a stream where carried flowers are
sweet —
Flower of the grass, borne down a twilight
wave;
Flower of the apple-groves the sunlights
lave;
Flower of the dying wreaths that heap a
grave.
Bring all you bear and east it at my heart —
The hill-cry as the spear tears nerves apart;
Sea-flakes; the breath of ice where rivers
start.
Wind, you stretch westward all my unbound
hair;
You are the flickering garment that I wear;
The stars begem me; my feet tread on air.
When I pass by at evening, walking low,
The little, round, thatched shelters, all arow,
Wherein on stones the charcoal embers glow,
The dogs move backward, looking with red
eyes;
The whining, nude child-fragment stills its
cries.
“Hush ! Now the mist comes as the day-wind
dies,”
Murmurs the mother. I pass on unshod —
On, where the oak shelters a clay-made god;
Then, with a leap, on where no man has trod!
The white peaks mingle with the whiter
stars;
Are they toss’d waves o’, the sea? On silver
cars
The star-lords pass; their shining diamond
scars
Speak of the strangeness of old avatars.
Of little, ancient lives that strove and wept
Down where the pristine foothill forests
crept;
Small lives that loved, and smote, and were
inept.
I stand and watch them as the dogs watched
me;
The wind has fallen silent, and the sea.
Far down below, upon a grass-grey lea,
Three human lamps—three golden light-
globes—glow
Like living amber dewdrops, and I know
It is a marriage. Oh, uplifted snow,
What is this heaviness that takes my feet?
What is this thickening of my pulse’s beat?
So alien, so resistless —and so sweet?
Ah, lam swift no longer!. I shall sleep..'..
And when I waken it will be to weep
Like that child-fragment; and then, waxing,
creep
On toward the harvests the incarnate reap.
N.S.W.
DULCIE DEAMER.


W*'
m
Sfe 1 V I
i>.
WESTI N G HOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock-—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—UOl.MlsS m OHIIBCH, Brisbane
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Victorian Office—
South Australian
“Chancery House,” ;485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Ascents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH A CO., LTD., Adelaide. S.A.
PROVED!
Those advertisers . who are in the position to
test results have proved time and again that
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE.
is definitely the finest result-getter in all Queensland,
It is more than 50 years younger than its morning contemporary.
Its circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be greater
than any other Queensland daily, and its influence and reader-value
are certainly unsurpassed.
Rate cards, specimen copies, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-94 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“THE AGE ”
Sstablished 185Jf.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you wish to stimulate the interest of the
Victorian public in your products, digest these
facts:— f
Over 123,000 persons purchase “The Age”
daily (60 per cent. Metropolitan areg,
40 per cent. Country districts).
Over 96 per cent, of the copies purchased
are home delivered subscribers.
Over 95 per cent, of the home deliveries
remain in the house for the womenfolk
during the day,
and
Over 1,000,000 advertisements are pub-
lished in its columns annually.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation
123,533.
Rates on application to the principal seryice
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, €l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Streets
Ok fld»«rtiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may he
obtained at all interstate agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price IJ d.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G, N. BEDNALL, “The Herald’’ Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
J
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
3C»5 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
tbe mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
carries regularly a far greater total
volume of advertising than any other
newspaper published in Tasmania.
IT is thus, judged by the use made oj
its columns, the most popular
as well as the most powerful of the
newspapers of Tasmania.
PROFIT by the experience of the
leading national advertisers, and
place “The _ Mercury” first when
advertising is under consideration.
Average Net Circulation, 20,967.
IT is, undoubtedly, Tasmania’s ablest
and best conducted newspaper.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
F. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
if any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
.
%
EYES
tell of
HEALTH
ETES tell of character and
personality. Eye* tell of
health also. If the whites
have lost their brightness,
are dull and lack lustre, you may
be sure your health as well as your
beauty are being impaired by poisons
spreading through your system—the
result of Constipation. Headaches,
biliousness and tiredness are other
manifestations of constipation. The
safest, surest way to conquer constipa-
tion is to take Beecham’s Pills. Their
corrective action has made them the
world’s approved regulative medicine
Get a box to day.
m
m
a
PILLS
WORTH
GUINEA
BOX
A
A
i^MNI
WOMANS MIRROR
The remarkable Threepenny Weekly.
SALES EXCEED 160,000 COPIES WEEKLY.
SHOULD WOMEN SMOKE?
Its Effects on the Fair Sex
COMPLICATIONS OF SCARLET
FEVER
RE-CANING CHAIRS
TEETHING TIME
How to Care for Baby when the Symptoms Appear
KITCHEN CRAFT
Tasty Tomato Dishes
X
f
*
1
oW
G o '”
~v<o ■;
♦vt' <s® e ••■ .•••■'
- ,sS
,«* e


2
SENSATIONAL
NEW
HRYSLERS
ARE HERE
NEW FROM THE GROUND UP
ERFORMANCE - CONTROL - LUXURY AND BEAUTY
. '•> '■ : ' "v 1 v
"Five years ago the first Chrysler car revolutionized automobile design,
performance and style. Our corps of great engineers now present new
cars even more sensational by to-day's standards than was the first
Chrysler."
These additional Chryslers are not new models
in the sense of a few superficial refinements.
They are original creations. They are new from
the ground up —new in outer dress, new in
character, new in type of construction, new in
roomy luxury, new in vitality, new in ability
and efficiency.
The new six-cylinder Chrysler "66” is in every
way worthy of a place in the group of Chrysler
cars. In its own field it achieves results fully as
revolutionary as the new Chrysler "70.”
It is typically Chrysler in performance, in
beauty, in stamina —and at the lowest price of
any six to bear the name of Chrysler.
TH€ N€
THE NEW CHRYSLER “66” ROYAL SEDAN.
TH€ N€W
n
THE NEW CHRYSLER “70” ROYAL SEDAN.
The new Chrysler ”70” introduces such new developments ass
MULTI-RANGE GEAR SHIFT—-Gives new pleasure to
driving; makes gear-shifting a joy even to the inexperienced;
widens the power range; shift gears as always, but with new
ease, new quickness, new quietness.
DOWN-DRAFT CARBURETOR—Not merely a gravity
manifold but a new principle of fuelling; complete car-
bur etion; smoother power; higher mileage; quicker opera-
tion. Extra large mechanical fuel pump.
SYNCHRONIZED POWER SYSTEM.—Engineered as a
unit from radiator to rear axle; new flexibility, smoothness
and economy, still longer life.
ARCHITONIC BODIES.—New in principle, non-squeak-
ing, non-rumbling dreadnought construction; new strength
and safety, slew slanting non-glare windshield.
Those and a host of other features put it farther ahead of
all other present-day automobiles than the first Chrysler
was ahead of the cars of five years ago.
Come to the salesroom. Examine these new Chryslers at your leisure.
Arrange for a demonstration; and you’ll experience the supreme sensation
of outclassing other cars on any road, ill any test, and under all conditions.
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales . . . Larke, Neave & Carter Ltd., Sydney
Victoria Lane’s Motors Pty. Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Ward Motors Limited, Brisbane
West Australia Wm. Attwood Motors Ltd., Perth
South Australia Southern Motors Ltd., Adelaide
Tasmania Metro Motors Pty. Ltd., Hobart
New Zealand Todd Motor Company, Wellington
New Guinea W. R* Carpenter & Co. Ltd., Rabaul
NCS'CI
