

**
re Terence
o
■
cW//
% i
m
BK:V -J
:■
'-'■' V' t -
ll : . /.&, i
mmm
Mg ■ 1
s«*Stw_ -,. <■•<•»..•?
r ?
*v< n
K;W ■
fl Wi
m
m
W:sM
w.
o 2
g&orJt.
&o>
U<* 0 | l4 ,ff *
-V ’ v
for
s,v
sr
09.0°
(6
0
terras
(gold label)
The Bulletin
ShvM V\jaJt Nook,!
Vol. 50.—N0. 2570.
Wednesday, May 15, 1929.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.8.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


\Y/RITE FOR THE LIBRARY CATA-
W LOGIJE AND LISTS on all subjects,
wMch will be forwarded on application, post
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
When millions multiply in pounds from pence
Good Fortune needs the balance of good sense;
Vulgarity delights in wild display,
Until the loss of vigor brings dismay.
An upstart wastrel curst, not blest, with wealth
In frantic follies stultifies his health.
For coughs and colds the poorest ease assure
With W'oods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—Advt.
s
Send this S.B. Advt. for this Book:
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT." It is Free!
STOTT’S, 100 Russell St., Melbourne.
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
V
LV» X*
s>-.
HW3
d
STAMMERING AND STUTTERING
CAN BE CURED IN YOUR OWN HOME
Send TO-DAY for .particulars of “Perfect Speech” and copies of letters from
those who have been cured. Philip CPBryen. Hoare, M.8.1.M.5c. (London) (The
Stammerers’ Friend), Specialist in Public Speaking and. the Cure of Stammering
and Stuttering,
ADDRESS:
56 BRISBANE ARCADE, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
P.O. Bex 1142 P.
Love Me and the Luck is Yours!
As I was saying to Tabitha: Men are fools; why should they work for
a living when they can pick up wealth like this ? Listen! All you have to
do is to look at me, love me, and the shilling’s mine, so to speak, but
the fortune’s yours— £lo,ooo of it. Nobody ever failed who trusted
Peter.
THE NEW SOUTH WALES FIRE BRIGADES’ ART UNION
FOR HOSPITALS, AMBULANCES, AND CHARITY.
(Sanctioned by the Attorney General)
€
©
I AM PETER
THE LUCK BRINGER.
TAIS IS YOUR LUCKY DAt'-
SEND AIOAIG AT ONCE
Si
OONM9
£lO,OOO in Prizes. First Prize a solid Gold Helmet, valued
at £3000; Second Prize a Gulden Casket of Diamonds valued
at £1000; Third Prize a Diamond Tiara valued at £750.
TICKETS: ONE SHILLING.
Six Tickets, 5/; Twelve Tickets. 10/; Twenty-five Tickets, £l.
A Ticket a Bay Keeps Misfortune Away! . __
Send at once. State whether Mr., Mrs., or Miss. Enclose stamped envelope
for result slip. Art Union Drawn on June 1, 1939.
Address: J. J. NEVILLE, Hon. Secretary.
Fire Brigades Headquarters, 213 Castlereagh-strect, Sydney, N.S.W.
TAKE THE ADVICE OF A WISE OLD TOMCAT AND 808 IN.
I’LL BE HAPPY WHEN THE BOBS COME BOBBING ALONG!
FOR
ARCHITECTS,'ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
• l,
■V.:-
RITI3H
Perfection
PITS PC RUBBER.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New ZealandEß Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
*
are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Germicide
and Antiseptic known, being destructive to all forms
of bacterial life. They keep the mouth in a sweet,
healthy condition.
Suited for Old and Young.
For the cure of Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bron-
chitis, Influenza.
Unlike cough medicines, HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL
JUJUBES do not interfere with the digestion; on the
contrary, they have a beneficial effect, as their Anti-
septic Properties prevent abnormal fermentation of
the food, and thus they prove helpful to sufferers
from Indigestion and Dyspepsia if taken after food.
Sold Everywhere in Tins, Price 1/6,
m
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
0. The Bronchial
Tubes of Dissected
Lung.
D. The Lobe of oat
•* tilt Lungs.
The Red Page
A Literary Night Out
I’m a crude enough person to appreciate
Norman Douglas’s recent finding upon a
man he met. “He was too damn literary for
me,” Douglas said. So I’ve been reading
in silence the “Lotus Eaters” and thus
been healing myself after a literary night
out—with a joint gathering of the Aus-
tralian Fellowship of Writers and the
English Association, listening to eminent
writers reading from their works; readings
sub-edited by the clatter of trams that
obliterated about every third Word.
The readers were Professor J. le Gay
Brereton, Mrs. Mary Gilmore, R. D. Fitz-
gerald, Dora Wilcox, Roderic Quinn, Steele
Rudd and Fred J. Broomfield. The hall
could not hold the audience, which over-
flowed and stood in a draughty corridor.
I should like to make it quite clear that the
vital of the remarks that I intend to make
here have nothing to do with the readers;
I am concerned at heart with the audience.
Nor have I any adverse criticism to make
of the prose readings, which were by Pro-
fessor Brereton and Steele Rudd and
seemed to me admirable. Steele Rudd,
creator of Dad and the other baggy gentry,
did not amaze me looming up in a
dinner suit with bib and tucker attached.
I am used to literary contradictions. He
read a sketch-essay from a coming book of
his,, the extract bearing a curious resem-
blance to a cocktail of Lamb’s “South Sea
House” and Irvine’s “Legend of Sleepy
Hollow,” with a rosette that hung on some-
body “like a baby staghorn” and similar
Steele Rudd similes for flavoring. A book
to look forward to by the sound of it.
Professor Brereton read an uproariously
laughable essay on the temptation to kick
people when they are .bending—reminiscent
of that buck who, in the Regent’s day. lost
£20,000 or so gambling one night, and next
morning, seeing a total stranger bending,
booted him, retorting to the protested “I
was only lacing my boots,” “You’re always
lacing your boots!” A welcome splash of
broad comedy in an extraordinarily serious
evening.
So much for the prose. Dora Wilcox
read war verse. R. D. Fitzgerald read verses
from the book of his which will shortly be
published by Angus and Robertson, making
the fifth Bulletin verse-writer to get into
covers within a few months. Mary Gil-
more pleaded in verse on behalf of the
aboriginals. Rod Quinn, the quality of
whose work lies in its delicacy, its sim-
plicity, read it boomingly, seeming to want
to moralise. Fred Broomfield, one of the
last of the Bohemians, read his with
emphasis.
Now, to have heard that party of writers
reading from their works was not an event
to be despised. A rainbow and a cuckoo,
Lord; and no doubt we’ll never see ’em
together again so long as we live. I appre-
ciate all that, and I appreciate the gener-
osity of the readers, not to mention their
courage. I doubt very much, however, that
the evening was what one speaker called
it. an intellectual treat. But for one aspect
of it, I’d go so far as to say that it was a
shocking waste of time—not my time, but
the time of proved and potential writers.
What Australia needs at the moment is
literary work, not literary talk. And even
if the circumstances could be ideal and
the readers perfect, there would still be
something repugnant to me in gathering
into a mob with the premeditated intent of
enjoying poetry. I cannot accept that any-
one present at such a gathering can, get any
real intellectual enjoyment from the poetry
as read. Take these lines for example:—
As for the words of praise
In other days
A distant worshippper
I gave to her or her
Or made for a mere theme—
Words that enclose the gleam
Of bright eyes and a shred
Of youth’s improvident dream—
Can they not still be said
’ For another dear head?
Subtle, of course. And that is why it is
pretentious bunkum for anyone to suggest
that he can listen to poetry read aloud in
a straining mass of other people and enjoy
it as poetry. I suggest that the enjoyment
(if any) that can be had from this sort of
thing is brother to that which makes a
city crowd crane its neck over an open man-
hole or gather to watch a felon being led
into court. A sort of sadism; a satisfac-
tion of morbid curiosity; a mutual admir-
ing; an absorbing of reflected glory; a
titillating of vanity; a gambol outside the
lion’s cage; a touching of the raiment of
the spiritually exalted. But an intellectual
en j oyment —no /
It’s a new thing to Australia, though,
no doubt, it’s time we had it. It
flourished in England almost throughout
last century, and persists. It is mostly
log-rolling, but it is not without its merits.
In England the other day a leading clothing
house asked Shaw, Wells and Bennett to
write advertisements for it. All refused,
and their refusals were better advertising
than their acceptance could hare been. If
an Australian firm wanted to-day to get
three refusals that would be good pub-
licity, would it select writers? Which
writers? It would select Bruce, Hughes and
Jock Garden. By making the names of
Australian writers more familiar in Aus-
tralia, societies such as these do a service
to Australian literature. It needs all the
publicity it can get. God bless all log-
rollers.
CECIL MANN.
Two War (or Peace) Plays
When the war was raging over Europe,
many people hoped, and more expected, that
as some little compensation for all the
terribleness of the conflict there would be
a recrudescence of Art. The enormous
emotional stress awakened must, people
said, find an outlet. The only sufficient
outlet they could conceive of was Art. They
looked for great poets to step into being,
great musicians, great novelists, great
dramatists. Instead, almost like a vast
demonic satire on the whole thing, there
came, at least as far as Great Britain was
concerned—a great humorist. Bairnsfather
came, flourished for a day, passed. During
the 10 years that followed the war not a
single really great work of art of any
description came into being that was a
direct outcome of the war or of experi-
ences connected with the war. But now
there are indications that the whole thing
is at last settling into a, more clearly
defined and true perspective, -with a dis-
tinct enhancing of art possibilities.
Many fine war books and plays are com-
ing into prominence in Germany and Great
Britain; and if the movement they reflect
has depth and permanence, one runs no
great, danger in predicting a coming entente
cordiale between the two countries. There
is an extraordinary resemblance between
these books and plays. Either as grim, ruth-
less realism or as biting satire they are all
first and foremost tremendously anti-war.
And they are all, one might say, un-
national. The English writer does not
caricature the German soldier, nor the
German the British soldier. Resurrected
soldier diaries ahd war-novels and plays,
written by poets or .sensitive imaginative
men who actually were in the war, show
clearly a recognition of the likeness of the
enemy to themselves—the conditions they
lived under, their courage, their fear, their
suffering, the very ideals they firmly
believed they were fighting for.
Two fine examples of these art-works are
the plavs ‘'Journey’s End,” by R. C. Sher-
riff. and “The Rumor,” by C. K. Munro,
at, present running in London, In “Journey’s
End” there is only one scene —a dug-out
in a support trench 80 yards from the
German front line. The action of the play
covers three days and is a picture of the
l’eactions of various types of men to the
horrors, discomfort and endless nerve-strain.
One sees them, the young captain born
with the gift of leading men. the school-
master. the schoolboy, the tradesman, what-
ever they are, hiding under various dis-
guises the fear that is common to all.
Occasionally this fear seizes the proffered
opportunity, which the surroundings are
always trying to make: penetrates the dis-
guise, and shows. The result is horrible.
In this dug-out men drink and laugh and
jest. These are the best weapons they can
use against fear, and they use them mag-
nificently. And they know that in their
dug-outs, 80 yards away, the Germans are
doing what they are doing. In the end,
tortured and hounded on and mocked at
by the same fear they know the Germans
have, they go to what again they face in
common with the enemy—Death. For
what? That is the question the play sets
magnificently, and leaves the audience the
answer—if it can.
“The Rumor” is an extremely clever un-
conventional play, quite unlike “Journey’s
End.” One feels that it would take a
tremendous lot to rouse Great Britain to
make war these days. But “The Rumor”
shows how easily wars can be started, pas-
sions inflamed, hatreds awakened, with the
contending parties all in the right and all
in the wrong. Financiers start a rumor that
one small; country is preparing to attack
another. They want certain stocks to fall
or rise. The rumor grows and grows. It
reaches into most unlikely places, awakens
long-sleeping suspicions. There is argu-
ment, roused feeling, a fight, a death. War
starts, and the great nations are drawn into
it. The characters in the play are merely
representative types. There is the man in
the street, the Prime Minister of England,
Labor politicians, newspaper men, diplomats,
business men. Utterly honest men or dis-
honest men, it does not matter; Rumor
pulls the strings and they dance like mar-
ionettes. The satire of the play is tre-
mendous. The logic is cold, hard, clear.
{Red Page continued on page 5.)


One essential of Anthony Horderns’ announcements
which never changes—“ Truth in Advertising.”
Wm
j
The Qualities You Look f or
in a Coat
—briefly we should say they are —warmth —lightness—proof from all weather,
and, of course, style. We confidently claim that we combine these qualities with
economy in the overcoats we offer you. The model illustrated above, for instance,
is a
Gabardine Raincoat for 75/-
Made from good-quality Gabardine—thoroughly proofed and fully lined. Cut
with Raglan shoulders, it would be hard to find a smarter coat. Obtainable in
Fawn, Mole, Navy and Grey. Price 75/-, 84/- and 105/-
English Tweed Overcoats, 67/6
Superior-quality fancy Tweed Overcoats in swing-back Raglan style. Smart Fawn
tonings are available in all sizes. These Coats are appropriate for all occasions,
and are recommended to withstand hard wear. Price, each 67/6
In Gabardine from 84/-
Exceptionally smart double-breasted Coats, in Navy Blue, perfectly finished in every
detail. Raglan shoulders, full belt and leather buckle are special features. The
material is of very good-quality Gabardine, and will give long service.
Prices 84/-, 95/- and 105/-
English Models from £7/7/-
Super-grade Overcoats, tailored in several faultless styles from high-class Tweeds,
Twists, Velours and Blanket Tweeds. Linings are carefully chosen to harmonise
with the particular color and style. Smart, serviceable and distinctive garments at
remarkably low prices, quality considered. Prices, £7/7/-, £B/8/-, £9/9/-, £lO/10/-
Department—Ground Floor • We Pay Carriage.
P v '
m
M ■ M
mm
j mm
' p
■
Anthony Horderns'
Telephone M2J/01
Day and Night
ANTHONY HOEDEEN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY..
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O.


d
New heights of smooth
performance and new
heights of comfort and
ease of handling .
tttti 'H
9
*s
m
r
ft
a;
T
e
I V
Et
z^
ML
S'
p
a
m
Chrysler "75” Royal Sedan.
CHRYSLER
demand sweeps aside all
other choices
Chrysler style plus Chrysler performance and value
—these are the reasons for a world-wide demand for
the new Chrysler “75” and “65”.
For Chrysler has achieved new heights of
smooth, dependable performance and new
heights of comfort and ease of handling.
And Chrysler body design has gone far be-
yond anything else in details of grace, style
and beauty that are unmatched in other
automobiles that sell for much more.
It is not to be wondered that with cars of
such behavior and roadability, in the new style
that re-styles all motor cars, Chrysler experiences
a demand that sweeps aside all other choices.
In five years Chrysler engineering has originated of
developed these epoch-making features:
“Silver-Dome” high-compression engine, using any fuel.
Seven-bearing counterweighted crankshaft. Iso-therm
invar-strut pistons. Air cleaner and oil filter. Body and
crankshaft impulse neutralisers. Hydraulic shock absorbers.
Hydraulic four-wheel brakes. Balanced road wheels.
Indirectly lighted instrument panel. Rubber engine mountings •
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales ... Larke, Neave & Carter, Lid., Sydney
Victoria Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland ... • . • Ward Motors, Limited, Brisbane
West Australia Wm. Attwood Motors, Ltd., Perth
South Australia .... O. T. Rodda Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
Tasmania Distributors Pty., Ltd., Hobart
New Zealand Todd Motor Company, Wellington
New Guinea ...... W. R. Carpenter & Co., Ltd., Rabaul
Cl 36


r
msA
m
*r-
U
m
V
TWEED OVERCOATS
from sGns.
There’s plenty of warmth and service in this English Tweed
Overcoat! It’s a Raglan model—three button style with D.B.
lapels. Full swing skirt and whole back unlined with taped seams.
In nut brown and mid or light grey shades. Prices, sto 7gns.
Tweeds are not only for men this season ! Inspect
our extensive range of women’s Tweed Coats.
Priced from as low as .. .. .. 49/6
DAVID JONES’
One sees the thing from all points of view.
As in “Journey’s End” the author stands
apart and relies on uncommented-on truth
to tell the tale and point the moral. It
does,
There is talk of staging these two plays
in Germany and of bringing like German
plays to London. The interchange of such
plays, throughout the nations would do more
for the promotion of peace than any number
of Geneva Conferences or Kellogg Peace
Pacts.
LONDON.
ALAN D. MICKLE.
A Hunt for Souls
On the Red Page for April 24 two con-
secutive articles made very gloomy read-
ing. Dr. Keith Barry set out to look for
a soul for Australia, and Brian Penton,
writing from London, mourned that Eng-
land had lost hers.
If Australia has no soul it is the fault
of her artists, who should have created one,
as apparently musicians in Austria have
managed to do. You cannot expect the be-
nighted populace to be soulful to order
without adequate notice. They must be
led up to it gradually. If people do not
like your artistic productions there are
two courses open to you. lake Shakspeare,
you can give the people what they prefer
—murders and other horrors—and in be-
tween insinuate a little of your own better
stuff and hope it will do them good. Or
else, like Milton, you can ignore the people
who have ignored you, and go on doing
your best, whether you starve or not,
proudly trusting in the judgment of future
generations. If you feel really upset you
can stop producing, but that will not help
to make a soul in the country. The financial
failure of a musician, deplorable though it
is, does not necessarily show that Australia
lacks a soul. It may only show that the
musician does not express it.
In any case, while the musician has been
failing, painters have been doing well; the
Bulletin novel competition has been a
very satisfactory success; and quite recently
two Australian novels, not in the compe-
tition, have figured prominently in the
London literary journals.
According to Brian Penton, England
haying lost her soul the only good English
writing done now is by Irishmen and Welsh-
men, to whom the crown has descended
from a Pole.
From Horace to W. S. Gilbert, this “praise
of time gone by” has been laughed at, but
apparently it is impossible to kill it. The
author of the present discontent wants
some great creative spirit to synthesise the
many perplexing aspects of the age. As a
great creative spirit, he refers to Iveats.
Keats lived just about a century ago, just
after their great war, in a time of new in-
ventions, poverty and reaction. Did he
synthesise all this? He turned his back on
it all and attended diligently to nightingales
and Boccaccio.
To support his argument, Mr. Penton
makes the rather juvenile assertions that the
problems for the artist are entirely new and
that life is now far more complex than it
was for Fielding, Dickens and Sterne.
There are no new problems for the artist.
Ihe trimmings— motors and aeroplanes—
may be new, but the fundamental stuff of
life—love and hate, work and sorrow and
faith and loss—is just what it always was.
And it is from that stuff that art is quarried.
If life was simpler for Dickens and Sterne
it must have been a mere ABC to Homer,
Plato and Euripides. The reading of their
works does not give that impression. If
they found life difficult and mysterious,
then it was difficult and mysterious. Life
is not at any age either absolutely simple
or absolutely complex. What matters is
its relation to the artist and the impression
it makes upon his spirit. He may have a
simplifying mind or a complicating mind,
and the product will differ accordingly.
Apparently, France is as badly off as
England, but there is something happening
in Berlin. Their spirits must be rather
potent if they can synthesise all that has
happened to Germany lately.
Personally, I have a childlike faith that
both England and Australia have quite a
creditable amount of soul—as much as ever
they had. It may not be the kind of soul
the authoi’s of these plaints like, but so
much the worse for them.
I refuse to be downhearted. Gaudeamus!
R. G. HENDERSON.
These Bolithos and People
Meekly I recently drew a parallel in the
Red Page between the treatment meted
out to Dale Collins and Hector Bolitho by
the Australian and Maoriland critics and
those in England. It didn’t seem fair.
Emerge from the wings with loud ha-has
and chortles, Quentin Pope and “D.W.F.
who deliver short and withering tirades in
which I am blasted (R.P. 17/4/’29).
Abuse of Bolitho and his style are beside
the point. What I tried to show was that
either London (which warmly praised him)
or Maoriland (which derided him) must be
wrong. I hold no brief for Hector. I know
that a lot of Solemn Boy” is merely
priggish. But I think also that the
steward in Collins’s “Ordeal” is about
as like an ordinary steward as a
single-furrow plough. The second-hand
abuse of my critics drives me more than
ever to the conclusion that every time a
man dips a kindly nib into an inkpot there
is some lofty-minded friend waiting around
the corner with a corrective brick.
And somehow the gods seem to be on
Hector’s side. Yesterday I opened a new
book. From it fell a card announcing that
Alfred Knopf would publish Hector’s new
novel “Judith Silver.” The astute Mr.
Knopf, at the foot of the card has these
phrases:
“I am jealous of Lytton Strachey’s style.”
—Hector Bolitho.
‘‘No need to be jealous, Mr. Bolitho.”
— H. M. Tomlinson, in the Sunday Observer.
If H.M.T. talks thus and my critics
talk that way, it all goes to prove that he
who tries to be kind should first of all take
a good look round.
STAN EAST.
A Note from Masefield
Dear Bulletin, — I am writing the story
of the four-masted steel barque Wanderer
(1891-1907), built and owned by Messrs. W.
H. Potter and Co., of Liverpool.
May I ask any of your readers who have
information, log-books, log-sheets, abstract
logs, photographs, drawings or memories of
this ship, or photographs of officers and men
who sailed in her, to be so kind as to let
me see and copy their material?—Yours
sincerely, John Masefield, Boars Hill,
Oxford.
A Satchel of Books
Idle Women, by Dorothy Black (Geoff-
rey Ble.s). A clever and intimate study of
social life among the “sahibs” of Burma,
not forgetting the “memsahibs,” Full of
good characterisation, the study of Letty,
the eternal femme en comprise, is a deeply-
bit etching.
Mountains, Gold and Cannibals, by Doris
It. Booth (Palmer). Here the remarkable
Brisbane woman who battled her way
through to the Bulolo and Edie Creek gold-
fields in their early days tells her own story.
A fine account of adventure it is—not well
written and calling rather often for applause,
but still alive, and bright, with keen obser-
vation and womanly humor. Freely illus-
trated with good photographs, it has been re-
published in Australia by Angus and Robert-
son.
The Whirligig of Taste, by E. E. Kellett
(Hogarth Press). A fine addition to the
brilliant Hogarth Lectures. Owner of that
rare quality, a friendship with literature,
the author traces the variations in literary
taste from very early times to the Vic-
torians. His learned story flows easily on,
sparkling with bright and shrewd observa-
tion. He has little patience with critics
who hold that a writer who no longer satis-
fies could never have been a great writer.
It is enough for him if a writer satisfied
his own times. A sympathetic and engaging
piece of criticism.
Black Rent , by Harold Begbie (Mills and
Boon). A well-managed yarn, with a
chiefly English and French setting and with
the effects of war upon delicate tempera-
ments as the main theme. Dr. Oliver Ral-
ston and liis son Christopher are drawn un-
willingly into the fighting and do their
best to adapt themselves, but the son fails
and is shot. The doctor, called back to
England by a neurotic matron whom he is
trying to help and with whom he is infatu-
ated, becomes suspected of the murder of
his wife. Parallel love-affairs and a small
host of cleverly-drawn characters make up
good fiction measure.
Orlando: a Biography, by Virginia Woolf
(The Hogarth Press). Here, as the adver-
tisers say, is something different. It has the
queerness and arresting quality of a futurist
picture, but it also has passages of rare
beauty, as well as pages that are witty and
others that are merely trivial. There are
numerous photos and reproductions of
ancient portraits to attest that there was
an Orlando, but that does not matter; now
that Mrs. Woolf has written his (her)
biography, Orlando exists —and much more
definitely than, say, President Hoover. The
his (her) method of speaking of the lady
(gentleman) is necessary because Orlando
begins by being a young heir to a great
estate and a noble name in the days of
Queen Elizabeth, becomes Ambassador to the
Sublime Porte during the last years of the
Stuarts, and returns to the Court of Queen
Anne as a very beautiful woman. There-
after he-she becomes a contemporary of
Pope and Sheridan, of Lord Melbourne and
Queen Victoria; sees an Edward succeed a
George and a George an Edward, and in
the concluding pages, still indestructibly
young and beautiful, steps into her limou-
sine on Thursday, Oct. 11. 1928, and drives
into Regent-street. Anybody expecting this
theme to be handled in terms of Wellsian
mock-realism will be disappointed. It is a
psychological study posed against the vivid
tapestry of three English centuries.
»
“Rostand: Flora Eldershaw, co-writer of
The Bulletin prize story which is to appear
serially as “The Quartermaster,” had a
literary ancestor. Her paternal grandfather
was an Englishman who, in the ’forties, after
having been some years in Australia, wrote
a book entitled “Australia As It Really Is.”
Australia is pretty well represented in a
book shortly to be published in France.
The French publisher, Albin Michel, has
bought from Dent the rights of “Australian
Short Stones,” the collection made by
George Mackaness. A translation is to be
issued within tlio next month or two. With
rare exceptions the Australian writer gets
nothing out of those published “collodions,”
and it is about time he rebelled.
W. M. Hughes has played many parts;
his latest is that of author. Ernest
Benn, the London publisher, who recently
swallowed the house of T. Fisher Unwin is
bringing out a book by Billy entitled “The
Splendid Adventure.” It is described by
the publisher as “the first authoritative
book on the British Empire,” and was due
to see the light of day in London, if there
is any light of day in London, on May 24
The price announced was a guinea net.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
C.T.T. : But why throw bricks at Unc.
Sam? He’s neither a rogue nor a fool for selling
us all these things; we’re the fool for
buying them R.G.L.: Not very well done;
and that pen is rather overcrowded... .F.T.H.: No,
afraid you’re only wasting time... .H.M.8.M.: Three
“Addresses to Death,” ten threnodies and sundry
“Requiems.” A cheerful morning, this.... Arney
Street: Thanks; much brighter:—
Mr. Hansen got a crust embedded in his gullet,
Whilst, I presume, he was his hunger stoking,
And all of his endeavors absolutely failed to pull it,
So that, at last, he realised he was choking.
But oh, nil desperandum, he took a small penknife
And made a rapid slit, which saved his life.
... .Dar-Ken’s Wife: The last line, “So sing you
old bass nightingale,” nearly got your- appreciation
of the Old Man through... .C.C.: Metamorphosis of
Aunty is becoming a rather W'orn idea. .. .M.E.8.:
None suits. .. .G. 8.: We’ll let you off this time....
R.M.: Don’t, fancy “Joan,” but w ould like to meet
some of her relatives if any.... J.0.P.: A fra id
the other meaning of the adjective applies to that
“blank verse”.... Tiptoe: Airy as a pair of diver’s
boots Naph.: “An Arab is, man for man, a
better animal than the high-bred Englishman.”
Please don’t; you make us remember J.E.T. (or
something like that): Its best note is the making
of a rhyme for “ring” by adding a “g” to “within.”
.... J.W.: Very thin.... Tristram R.: Misses, but
only by the thickness of a canvas... .H.P.8.: That
idea was compulsorily retired in 574 b.c T.H.F.:
No space for faint little rhymes.... F.H.: You make
very little of a big opportunity.... E.M.: Weeks
too late. .. . J.F.: As dismal as a wet cat.. . .N.N.J.:
All the old archaics, from “doth” to “kine”....
J.8.C.: Charming refrain, that “Spit, spit, spit!”
. ...Aragun: “The Bulletin Cup” drained to the
bitter dregs. Please don’t refill.... T.H.R.: Scarcely
worthy of its topic Sir Launcelot: Deuced poor,
old bean.... 0.N.: Handwriting resembling herd of
enraged elephants beat even our comps R.Y.:
“April” is a slight little fancy, but closer than
most on that aged topic... .T.G.W.: The triolet
isn’t. The other ought to be sent to her direct....
8.P.: “Language” is in the bad class.... G.F.A.:
Not quite. .. .J.G.L.: It seems more a private affair
than a poem E.G.L.: Begins fairly well, and
ends, well, fairly.... Strilo: Rather monotonous
metre. Ditto rhyme scheme... .F.8.C.: Don’t fancy
those. Try some more. .. .P.H-S.: Slightest this
week, and that’s talking... .Flourbag: Sorry; not up.
....Aspuanl: The 1929 Novel Competition closes on
December SI; send name and address for par-
ticulars... .K.G. 349: Address to editor; he’ll sort
’em out... .C.8.D.: Not aboard this craft... .A.G.:
Too slight. .. .A.H.G.: Interesting personal record
but not in publishable form... .H. 8.: A bit frag-
mentary ... .I.W. A.: Try it in verse .A.8.R.:
Sympathetic but stiff... .L.E.: Simple story told
naturally; softy can’t use... .0.W.W.: Ghost laid
and remains returned.... M.J.: The signal’s agaiust
you... .C.K.T.: Not even Abo. room for spectral
ants. .. .'Wader: For “Yesterday” there is no to-
morrow... .J.M.: Won’t fit in. .. .R.J.0.: Poetry,
prose, or mixed pickles?... .M.R.: Flapper romance
flipped back J.O’R.: Nothing salvaged from the
wreck. .. .W.C.G.: “Ailsa stared out of the window
thoughtfully”—no wunder, after such a story....
A. 8.5.: Idea ingenious but, as told, too many
holes in it....C.G.: No room for mother’s story
of the haunted house and the strangled baby. Try
the Slaughtermen’s Journal H.A.D.: “Favonian
Zephyrs” not one of our prevailing winds....
G.H.: Try a trade journal... .J.N.: Snake yarn
doesn’t bite... .C.M.L.: Amusing but extravagant....
S.H.K.: No bid for “Biddy”. .. .Mac: One line: —
Hallelujah, mine’s a rum!
Make it tw0.... J.E.R.J.: Unrhymed verse indicates
inability more often than anything else... .K.A.J.:
A forced growth..O.A.W.: Yards of nothing....
A.L.E.: We can put your whole trilogy into a
sentence: It’s better to have been divorced than
never to have had the fun. . . .E.C.P.: An aged
idea.... A.C.: Smells too much of the soapbox....
K.McK.: Two good lines; the rest futile... .Reaper:
Try it on the local market... .E.E.S.: You might
do likewise... .H.St.D.: “Treasures” don’t tempt
us to buy... . A.V.*: Send it to him direct... .R.G.W.:
Rhyme scheme makes the “Midnight Mail” a rather
monotonous vehicle. .. .Chicot: Your muse is too
heavy a jockey to ride Light Verse to victory....
Pax: The “Storm” is now over, thank Heaven!. ...
M.S.R.: Could be better said in half as much
prose. .. .G.J.W.: Your lines have flat feet....
AV.J.H.: A yard or two ahead of most first efforts.
. ...P.P.P.: The Linnean Society of N.S.W. dates
from 1874. Its assets exceed £BO,OOO and its
income is about £6OOO p.a.; it maintains a research
bacteriologist and offers annually four research fel-
lowships in natural history... .P. Bill: It was the
48th Battalion that was known as “the Joan of
Arcs” because it was “made of all-Leanes”. ...
Applecross: Westralia was not actually British
territory in Napoleon’s time. It was not annexed
till 1827... .E.F.: The “Vinegar Bible” was printed
by the Clarendon Press in 1717 ; it had the words
“Parable of the Vinegar” (instead of “Vineyard”)
over Luke XX....Sport: Reply-paid wires for the
paper’s tips are duly answered, but refuse to give
any reader “exclusive information”.... Kiki: For
the Lord’s sake leave more space between the lines.
....Chaco: Population of Argentina, January 1,
1927, 10,348,000; of Buenos Ayres, 1,972,000. The
republic consists of one federal district (Buenos
Ayres), 14 provinces and 10 territories; the president
is elected for six years; the Senate for nine years
and House of Deputies for four years.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.J.R.: One gag to the sheet is most convenient.
. ...H.A.: Do you iron out your models before you
begin to draw' them?... .V.H.: You needn’t have
bothered to post it....F.H.: Very raw.. . .A.C.G.:
At least you did not make us feel despondent....
P.P.: Improve your jokes and you’ll improve your
chances... .A.8.F.: Can’t tell from copies; ask her
to send something original.


_ .
E.;x
m
n I ;
gfe
HslgiP:
E,
Hi
'
-
#
\>#w|
1 :
li
Hfl
Ik
■
*> .. , ..
/
H "' '• '• i &
WmMm
wtWZ%WS H 'M &/,\ -F"
m
*«*»■»|p
‘
■ ' ■
E ; :-
m
m
*v4Bfc»* ,
„.* .-v v **i
* :- : :&
v
m
-
;
if#.
.
i uni
PHH
■
mmmm
m
a
■
W®l' wm®
jiP*
4®
'■ E
It
m
m
ijbhi^hr--' ; y -41
EEEf^
■ E : ®e :
" ' ’ ■■'% ■ ■■
*> r Py?i| , 1 <** **&>
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 50.—N0. 2570.
May 15, 1929.
“SCAB!”
“The attempt to produce a general strike in Victoria has failed. The employees of the State coalmine at Yalloum replied that even if they came out tew
electric works would still operate.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
Sti George Street, Sydney.
Victoria: IH-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 21/9 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to ant address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To ant address Overseas: 12 months, A 1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom: ioz. to 10oz., lid. ;
each additional loz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: ioz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES . . 2, 5
TWO NEW PEACE PLAY'S
-—by Alan D. Mickle . . . . 2, 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . 5
A REASON FRONT PAGE 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
Should Irresponsibles Vote? •• ..8
The Wheat Crash • ■ • .. 8
WHAT A FLAGSHIP’S LIKE 8
THE GOLDEN- AGE OF CRIME . . . . 8
Mr. Garden and Yallourn .. 8
"THE ARBITRATION HANDICAP”
-—A cartoon by Percival . . • • • • . . f)
POLITICS (with caricatures) . . .. .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) . . . . .. 11, 12
PERSONAL, WITH THREE DRAWINGS .. 14
POVERTY POINT 15
“WHO’S BOSS?” Cartoon by Scorflcld .. • • 15
SUNDRY' SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. -.17
A NEW SYDNEY THEATRE 17
STATE THEATRE ART SHOW . . •• 17
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 18, 20
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ 18
MUTUAL LIFE AND CITIZENS’ . . . . 18
WASHINGTON SOUL’S 18
ARTHUR RICKARDS 20
RADIUM IN AUSTRALIA 20
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 23, 25
Free Service Department .26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 29
SHEEP SELF-FED ON LINSEED . . .. 28
SMOKE-OH 32
“A Rogue in Amber” ..34, 55, 58
PEN AND PICTURE 37
N.S.W. SOC. OF ARTISTS’ SHOW .. . . 37'
SPORTING (Illustrated) .. •• ..39, 41, 42
BRITISH OPEN GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP .. 39
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC 42
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 44
WHAT GRANDMA WORE TO PARTIES .. 44
NEW ELECTRICAL FININGS 44
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 46
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 49
VERSE 55, 58
“A MEETING,” by Elsie Cole 55
“A SMOKE AND TALK,” by Roderic Quinn... 58
“RENEWAL,” by Llywelyn Lucas . . .. 58
Three Complete Stories—
,rWHO WAS PETER GOURLAY ?” by Harold
Mercer .. . . ■ • • • 51, 63
“THE JOKE,” by J. Newman 53
“VIOLETS,” by Francis Osborn . - 57, 58
“THE QUARTERMASTER”
BEGINS NEXT WEEK.
WEDNESDAY, MAY 15, 1929.
SHOULD IRRESPONSIBLES
VOTE?
A miner wrote what many know to be
true in the S. M. ‘Herald last week, on the
subject of stoppages of work in his industry:
“A great many of these stoppages are
caused by irresponsible boys.”
And something very like it is true of dis-
putes in every walk of life. It is possible
for wars, sectarian rows, party rows, indus-
trial rows to be fomented by a few, to the
despair of thousands, because of people
with the minds of irresponsible boys—
moron minds, as the doctors say. Fools
were responsible for the general strike in
England, and people of the same mental
calibre are anxious to start a similar
calamity in Victoria.
The ordinary* casual and unthinking
citizen’s capacity to be humbugged was
so taken for granted by all the belligerents
during the World War that propaganda was
promoted to the rank of a science. Since
the war scores of books have been written
on the subject in Germany, the U.S.A,,
France and England; and Moscow’s cam-
paigns in the interests of industrial unrest
in India and elsewhere are known to be
based on the teachings of these works. The
function of the skilled propagandist, as the
American Lasswell remarks in his famous
book, is “to make up the public mind; to
inform, cajole, bamboozle and seduce in
the name of the public good; to preserve
the majority convention, but dictate to
the majority.”
Politicians, strike leaders and others who
remain in the public eye by their capacity
to sway what is called “opinion” owe their
success chiefly to two popular theories, both
fallacious —(i) that everyone is fit to vote;
(2) that everyone wants to vote.. The
truth is that right voting, whether in a
political election or for a party candi-
date or on the merits of an industrial dis-
pute, is a highly technical proceeding, as a
rule, calling for considerable gifts of char-
acter and intellect; and that few people,
relatively, have any desire to vote. There
is something appropriate in the fact that
John Wilkes —the most cynical rascal in
English political history, the man of whom
Gibbon wrote, “Shame is a weakness he
has long since surmounted” —should have
begun the movement which produced the
Reform Bill. It was directly owing to
Wilkes's bunkum about the yearnings of
the disinherited proletariat for the franchise
that Australia has adult sufferage, and, as a
corollary, compulsory voting.
In New York State they have recently
introduced a scheme to curb those who have
learned the profitable art of pulling the legs
of voters with the minds of children. Every
citizen in the State has to pass an intelli-
gence test —not an educational test —before
being put on the electoral roll. The ratio
of failures last year was 22 per cent. There
is nothing undemocratic in saying to a
citizen: The business of voting is as respon-
sible as that of doctoring, or making people’s
wills, or appearing as an advocate in the
courts. On the contrary, in this country
an intelligence test would be equally liable
to exclude wooden-headed Tories and
mentally deficient Reds. It would give
voting for Parliament, in a selection ballot
or elsewhere, a cachet which it lacks at
present, making it what it ought to be, a
privilege, and a method of identifying the
nation’s true aristocrats. It would help to
deodorise our Parliaments and so provide
better government, and it would lessen
“irresponsible strikes” in .industry.
The objections are of the sentimental
kind. But if Britain had not turned from
sentiment and catch-words to realities when
things were desperate, the Allies would have
lost the war; and, similarly, if the Com-
monwealth is going to continue submitting
to the control in politics and industry of
moron minds speaking through tricky
adventurers, then it will lose the present
war—the one which order is waging against
anarchy.
THE WHEAT CRASH.
The most serious news Australia has had
of late, and probably for much longer than
that, is about wheat. There is a colossal
surplus in America, and the market pros-
pects are gloomier than they have been for
years.
No country in the world is more
interested in this market than Australia,
because wheat stands for 65f p.c. of its
cultivation, and it has practically no other
vegetable to export; indeed, whereas in
the last year for which figures are available
it exported £27,000,000 worth of wheat and
flour, its net vegetable exports were only
£23,000,000, showing that apart from wheat
Australia is an importer rather than an
exporter of grain and other vegetables. Add
to this the fact of Australia’s vast foreign
debt and the need therefore of large exports
to pay the foreign interest bill, and you
get some idea of the great importance of
the wheat business to Australia.
For a few years past the Australian farmer
has got something between five and six
shillings a bushel; occasionally the pace
has passed the .six, and in a few extra-cold
moments has slipped below the five. In
the present blizzard, with the world-markets
demoralised, it has been difficult if not im-
possible to sell in an Australian port at 4s.
6d., which means a shade less than 4s. for
thousands of farmers in these days of
appallingly high railway freights. Yet even
before the present blizzard began there
was an increasing cry that it would be neces-
sary for the farmer to go to the Treasury
to keep the export trade going.
A call upon the Treasury for such a pur-
pose means taxation—it is inconceivable
that even an Australian Government would
pay it out of loans. But in N. S. Wales,
the greatest wheat-producing State, the
average inhabitant paid for himself, his
wife and his three children, in State taxa-
tion alone, £3 19s. 2d. in 1913, £l4 3s. 4d. in
1920 and £25 Bs. 4d. in 1927. Without any-
thing in the way of export wheat or other
bonuses he may look forward to paying £4O
per annum within the next few years—a
rise, that is, from under £4 to £40 —-because
the huge loans still being floated yield in
the aggregate nothing whatever towards the
5i p.c. interest thereon. And, in addition,
there are Federal and municipal imposts,
and in some quarters child endowment and
Mr. Piddington. The point is being reached
at which a hundred businesses, besides the
wheat farmer’s are on the point of extinc-
tion. Scores have been extinguished already.
The growth of unemployed is only one of
the consequences.
The Bulletin’s sympathies are with the
Australian farmer. He is trying to carry
on the business in a land which is seeking
to maintain the highest standard of living
in the world on the world’s shortest working-
hours, which is to say that everything he
buys is high-priced, while he has to compete
in the world’s market with countries of
cheap labor and poor conditions, which
inevitably means that the product is low-
priced. The inevitable result is that, so
long as the price for Australian consump-
tion is based on the foreign price, the Aus-
tralian farmer can only carry on by putting
up with conditions and rewards at which
the city worker would scoff.
The cost of everything the farmer has
to buy ought to be reduced, as it would be
with more reasonable hours worked on
the railways and a fairer return given for
wages paid there and elsewhere; but if
that cannot be brought about, then the
Australian wheat-farmer’s only hope seems
to lie in a great increase in the home con-
sumption of flour sold at a price governed
not by foreign cheap-labor conditions but
by Australian deaivlabor conditions. An
export bonus is hopeless, because the com-
paratively few taxpayers who would pay
it are already mostly floundering under their
burdens, and industry is tottering in con-
sequence.
THE FLAGSHIP.
The “Holy Ghost” of the Navy having
been saluted—that is to say, having raised
hat to the quarter-deck—one was escorted
below to a spare cabin, and then taken to
the wardroom, where a first impression of
having been introduced to a collection of
best-fellows-in-the-world never got itself
modified. There is something about our
Australian bush-hospitality that impresses
the newcomer, but it is mere hostility com-
pared with the welcome extended to the
stranger in the ’tween decks of an Australian
warship—provided he has been properly
introduced. As the introduction in this
instance had come from the Admiral through
the Flag-Lieutenant, the democratic genial-
ity of that pleasant meeting-place soon dis-
pelled the fog of shyness only natural to
the outsider who finds himself suddenly in
the midst of a new world of humanity. For
your N.O. is quite different from the rest
of mankind.
But such wholesale introductions are a
little confusing. There are the Commander;
the President of the Mess, a übiquitous
person whose duties seem to lie in four
dimensions; and four specialist commanders,
who belong to the banking, medical, navi-
gational and engineering branches of the
naval profession. And assorted lieutenant-
commanders of the same castes. And lieu-
tenants of different breeds —purple, red and
white between the sleeve-rings—and ordi-
nary lieutenants who do plain lieutenanting.
The only man whose identity you are
certain of when you sit down to your first
meal in the wardroom is the black-coated
chaplain, who, unlike his army prototypes—
colonels, majors and captains—is content
to be just what he is, the rector of the
parish and friend of everybody. The dis-
tinction of his rank lies in the personnel
of his parishioners rather than in his own
rating. Which is comforting. Years ago,
when one went soldiering, it always seemed
a little incongruous to behold the man of
God arrayed as a man of blood.
These new ships—growing obsolete every
10 seconds—the Australia and Canberra, are
floating wonderlands, and everything else
that may denote the marvellous —at least,
what is marvellous to the unsophisticated
landsman. Those two quartettes of
long, lean guns, poking polished noses
out of their superimposed turrets on
the fo’c’s’le and quarterdeck, can hit
with their eight-inch projectiles a
target that is nearly 19 miles away,
which is considerably out of sight over the
horizon’s edge. They can do this when the
10,000 tons of ship that carries them is
hurling herself through the seas at nearly
40 miles an hour. The gunnery-officer can
let them off himself—all at once if he wants
to —by touching buttons in the elevated
steel residence behind the bridge which he
inhabits in times of trouble. And the fel-
lows in§jde the turrets don’t even see the
sea, for the most part, let alone the object
of their embarrassing attentions.
The old flagship Australia was almost
twice the size of her namesake, and carried
eight 12in. guns, yet the old ship wouldn’t
have had a dog’s chance in a scrap with her
successor. Australia 11. could have stood
out of reach of Australia I. and battered her
at her leisure, and the old ship could not
have closed with her in order to use her
overwhelming armament. The present.flag-
ship of the Australian fleet could lie in
Farm Cove and burst shrapnel over troop-
ships running into Broken Bay; and the
19 miles between the North Head of Port
Jackson and Barrenjoey represents only
half an hour’s run for her when she is going
at full power. She is the acme of discom-
fort when this happens, for the four big
propellers under her counters wag her tail
prodigiously. ,
“What,” one asked a two-and-a-half
striper —“what’s the thing she can do best?
How would you define her most vital
characteristic?”
“Speed. We can damn well run!”
Everything throughout the hull bears evi-
dence to the attention that has been paid
by the ship’s designers to all that may make
for pace. Weight has been sacrificed. The
ceilings of the wardroom are of aluminium,
and the minor divisions, such as bulkheads
between cabins, are of the same metal.
So are the crews’ lockers, those commodious
chests-of-drawers that have taken the place
of sea-bags. So are the casings in the
engine-room. So are the racks in the Pay-
master-Commander’s Central Stores —that
fascinating repository of spare parts, mat-
erial and supplies which is, in its facilities
for speedy service and convenience, in
keeping with the speed-spirit of the ship.
And the upper decks are made of light pine,
instead of the everlastingly durable but ex-
ceedingly heavy teak which is a tradition
of shipbuilding. It, may be impossible to
please the critical eye of the Commander
with the snowy whiteness attainable on
quarter-decks of teak when the yellowish
planking gets its matutinal scrubbing, but he
consoles himself, possibly, by spelling
S-P-E-E-D. And all over the ship, on upper
decks and in the ’tween-decks, the melodi-
ous voice of'the boatswain, and the bird-
like piping of his whistle, are, for the sake
of speed in execution, transmitted by loud-
speakers.
It was a beautiful blue day in early
autumn as the great ship went down the
coast to Jervis Bay, and the green-and-
purple land 10 miles or so to starboard
looked like a country that was worth de-
fending. Far away to port, a grey sil-
houette on the hard line of the horizon,
the Canberra moved along a course that
was purposely not parallel with ours. Some-
times the two ships drew closer in to one
another, and sometimes increased their dis-
tance. And always the great guns in the
turrets elevated and depressed themselves,
moving through arcs to left and right, as
their crews practised inclination exercises
—sighting on targets at constantly varying
ranges. The whole ship’s company was
drilling somewhere or other. Only the
Admiral, the cat and I led a life of leisure.
J.H.M.A.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Golden Age for Crime.
In Sydney alone during the 15 weeks which
the timber strike has lasted, more murder-
ous assaults have been perpetrated in the
name of solidarity than all the thugs of
the Commonwealth have been guilty of in
the same time for gain or revenge. The
men who have committed these crimes are
not congenital criminals; they are the in-
struments of mostly imported incendiarists
of the type of the ex-parson Garden.
Garden is directing the timber-workers’
strike to the best of his ability into a
channel which is familiar to Europe where
this new, or Red International, model in
strikes originated. The idea is to familiar-
ise law-abiding workers with violence and
bloodshed on gradual lines, anld arrive
thus eventually at the revolution.
This was the plan behind England’s
general strike, and it has been the
basis of every attempted French strike
of the last five years. But it is the
custom of both the British and French
Governments to deal drastically and at
once with strike leaders who incite to
crime. Thus Communism’s “Big Five” in
France (Marty, Cachin, Vaillant-
Couturieh, Du ceos and Doriot) have all
been in the Sante Prison in the last couple
of years for preaching sedition or sabotage.
On the other hand, the result of treating
advocates of anarchy as they are treated
here has just been demonstrated in Ger-
many. And the position of the Common-
wealth resembles that of Germany in
another respect: it is unarmed. We have
no guards or carbineers to stand by the
police in the event of disorder. Garden’s
oration at Yalloum, in which he suggested
that the workers should plunge Melbourne
in darkness and steal gold watches or
march in a body 1500 strong to Myer’s
shop and loot it, was only futile because
the workers of this country have not yet
been inflamed to the desired stage of
lawlessness. If he had used similar langu-
age in parts of his native Scotland, and if
the Government had remained inactive, the
outcome would have been very, different.
In other words, our Governments are
gambling on the unassailable integrity and
commonsense of the Australian wage-
earners. Which, as a permanent policy,
amounts to madness. Nothing is surer
than that if agitators are allowed to incite
to crime indefinitely, they will at last suc-
ceed in starting something; and if something
is started in this unarmed and undisciplined
community, there will be a frightful holo-
caust before it ends.
+
They May Hang their Gardens Yet.
The most aggrieved person in Australia at
the moment is J. S. Garden. The ex-parson
went up to Yalloum, the model town built
by the State Electricity Commission in
Vic., and invited unionists there to walk
out and put Melbourne in the dark, as a
way of helping the striking timber-workers.
The Yalloumers turned a deaf ear on the
proposal. They didn’t say it was immoral,
though that idea may have entered the
heads of some of them. They said it
would be silly. They knew a bit more
about it than Garden.
Yallourn was started because Victoria
was sick of having to depend for its light
and power on the caprices of the coalheavers
of Newcastle and the Seamen’s Union. It
mines brown coal, entirely by machinery,
puts it into furnaces, also by machinery,
and thus produces the electrical power that
lights Melbourne and half Victoria. There
are few so-called workers at allourn,
though they are well paid and well housed.
The people in Yallourn are the engineers
and electricians. If Brawn walked out to-
morrow, Brains would be able to keep the
show running.
And if anything should go wrong at
Yallourn, there is the Sugarloaf-Rubicon
project. It lies in what were almost in-
accessible mountains until the Commission
drove roads there. The Rubicon and
Royston rivers and Snob’s Creek are har-
nessed to six', power stations which in
summer, when the streams run slack, can
be partly fed by the head of water con-
served in the Sugarloaf Dam. A system


THE ARBITRATION HANDICAP.
“The timber-workers will never accept Judge Lukin’s award.”— Ex-parson Garden to Sydney Constitutional Association.
THE URGER: “You’re on a cert, man. Don’t you see he’s a lame bloke makin’ bets on tick? If you win he pays, and if he wins you do a duck.”
of automatic controls and telegraphs en-
ables a couple of engineers to keep their
fingers on every portion of the scattered
plant, the power from which, though it
is used in normal times to supply the
north-eastern districts, is brought to within
12 miles of Melbourne. From there, by
the manipulation of a few switches, it can
be diverted to the metropolis or any other
place threatened with darkness.
There is a moral in the Yallourn incident.
Every time militant trades unionists resort
to force in order to wrest some advantage
from the employer, the employer sits down
to think out some new plan by which
machinery may make him less dependent
on unskilled labor.
Some day, when great bodies of unem-
ployed workers realise what the Gardens
have done for them, there may be some
quite unexpected hangings.
#
The Queensland Elections,
The Bulletin realises now that it hasn't
been very kind to Arthur Edward Moore,
of Queensland. For : many weeks past it
has been doing its best to make him Pre-
mier of his State; and the vote taken on
Saturday was so tremendously in his favor
that even the 14-year-old Rydorgilmack
dynasty must at last come to an end.
And now the chances are that Queensland
will expect the evil consequences of 14
years of misrule to be wiped out in a few
weeks. Of course, the thing can’t be done.
The process of reconstruction must be long,
slow and unfortunately painful. All the
State can comfort itself with is the reflection
that the recovery would be longer the longer
it was deferred—and slower and more pain-
ful.
No doubt the new Government will be
strongly tempted to offer the State sudden
salvation; and it will take a strong Premier
and a strong Government to resist the pres-
sure that will come, not only from those
who hitherto had been Labor supporters,
but from those who have been so long out
in the Opposition cold. The best service
the true friends of Queensland can render
is to help in stiffening the back of the new
Government. This thing must be gone
through with. Queensland calls for a man
who will do for it what George Turner did
for Victoria after the semi-chaos caused by
the collapse of the land boom. There is no
salvation except by hard economy, and hard
economy is never popular—especially among
those who have been enjoying the largesse
of the spendthrift.
Because of that, and because the process
of recovery will be long, the new Govern-
ment must lay its plans for a protracted
campaign. It must take steps to assure, as
far as it can, that its programme is not
suddenly interrupted. To that end it must
forthwith set to work to clean up the elec-
toral rolls and purify all other things con-
nected with the representation of the people
in Parliament.
But if The Bulletin feels that it should
be rather sorry for A. E. Moore, there is no
question at all that it ought to very warmly
congratulate Queensland.
Small Sister’s Distress.
Dear Bulletin, —Commenting on Tas-
mania’s difficulties through flood (B.
24/4/’29), you suggest that the whole lia-
bility of the State be taken over by the
Commonwealth on terms which may in-
clude amalgamation with Victoria. I offer
an alternative proposal.
Has the Federation proved so successful
that the people here should be contented
to continue part of the Commonwealth?
We have Westralia, S. Australia and
Tasmania asking for increased grants;
Queensland has special assistance in her
monopolies of the sugar, banana and pea-
nut industries; Victoria and N. S. Wales
have their troubles, as the state of the
labor market proves. Melbourne and
Sydney have been rebuilt within the last
few years at high capital cost, upon which
interest charges have to be met for all time,
and the new palatial buildings contain many
acres of floor space which even the big
exodus from the country cannot fill.
Tasmania is able to manage its own
affairs, but finds it impossible to control
its destiny if hampered by Federal laws
which do not admit of expansion by allow-
ing the people to work. Scrap many of the
Acts of the Commonwealth Parliament and
we may succeed. But, better still, tell Tas-
mania that the Mainland would prefer to
be without her. We will then take the
control of the colony and our share of war
debts, and the people of the Mainland will
quickly realise that they, too, could man-
age their affairs better under a government
similar to that which existed prior to 1900.
—Yours, etc., T. Murdoch.
<s>
Artificial Disputes.
Another act in Australia’s non-stop Arbi-
tration farce was played before the High
Court in Federated State School Teachers
v. States of Victoria and Tasmania. The
teachers sought to establish that a dis-
pute as to salaries and conditions, raised
by members of their profession in two
or more States, was an “industrial dis-
pute” within the meaning of the Arbitra-
tion Act. Justice Rich quoted an appo-
site remark of the late Higgins, J., in the
Municipalities case: “It is not necessary
for us to define what is a dog when we de-
termine that a certain animal is a dog.”
And he went on to state the obvious and
essential element of an industrial dispute.
The Court applied this definition to the
matter of the teachers, and found that the
requisite element was “wholly lacking.”
It is a calamity that futile cases of the
sort should come before the Courts, but
that they do come is an inevitable conse-
quence of the law as it stands. The position
is that almost any calling, with luck, has a
chance of being declared an industry, and
therefore entitled to present claims. Even
in this case one Judge— -Isaacs —sided
with the applicants. The view taken of the
Arbitration Court by many—perhaps most
—workers is that it is a sort of fairy god-
mother, capable of conjuring an unlimited
number of gold coaches for proletarian
Cinderellas out of the industrial pumpkins.
No doubt it is inequitable that teachers
should be paid so poorly compared with
citizens whose work is neither cultural
nor ethical and whose only equipment is
brawn. But you get things all wrong if
you set up a false standard of pay in one
calling and proceed to fix other rates of
pay accordingly. This is the cause of
most of the trouble arising out of wage-
fixing by so-called courts.
Meantime litigation, often more or less
frivolously begun on the off-chance of
securing the benefits of a Judge-made scale
of wages, is having the effect of delaying—
which is to say denying—justice to those
who have every right to it. All the
States are short of Judges, and big carry-
over lists are features of every fresh term,
particularly in N. S. Wales and Victoria.
So much of the time of so many of Aus-
tralia’s under-stocked Federal and State
benches is occupied dealing with artificial
disputes that insufficient time is left for
bona fide ones, and even for criminal trials.
And to cap it all, partly because of the
discredit which is becoming attached to the
Bench by its association with political rows,
and partly because none of our Judges are
adequately remunerated, the best men of
the State Bars are showing an increasing
disinclination to go on the Bench.
♦—
Navy or Aircraft?
‘‘Ezra” : “XNO” (B. 24/4/’29) is a similar
fanatic to “J.H.M.A.” on naval affairs. His
assertion that “Australia is entirely seagirt,
and her defence measures should be such
as will obviate any necessity for employing
the P. 8.1. [Poor Blanky Infantry],” is suffi-
cient to judge him, and shows how an at-
first laudable enthusiasm for his own ser-
vice can become an obsession. Naval
madness is worse than air madness, as there
is a constantly widening scope for the use of
aircraft; and naval diehards who blind them-
selves to these possibilities and gibe at other
services are subjects for sympathy.
Nobody denies the might of the Navy
and what it has done to keep the seas free,
and there are few air fanatics who would
suggest air forces as an entire substitute.
But as a complete means of defence (and
a defensive does not always mean sitting
down to be attacked) the Navy must work
in conjunction with the land forces if it is
to win. Britain’s most successful wars have
been those in which the Army and Navy
showed the closest co-operation. It was
Waterloo, not Trafalgar, which ended the
Napoleonic wars; the Allied victories in
Bulgaria, Turkey and France, and not Jut-
land, which brought about the end in the
last war. If naval defence were enough for
England, she need never have sent her
armies to the Continent, as she always has
done.
If “XNO” could get away from his dan-
gerous bias and study history and the doings
of other services, he would realise that the
fate of nations rests upon its
when organised, and that the Navy is but
one member (though a very necessary mem-
ber) of the family, with the P. 8.1. in the
principal role.
Municipal Finance.
A firm of accountants was called in lately
by the new Mayor of Canterbury (N.S.W.).
Its report was so condemnatory that three
senior officers were suspended. The accounts,
it was said, had not been properly kept,
expenditure had been incurred contrary to
law, there were serious deficiencies in stock,
and £37,300 was outstanding in uncollected
rates and other charges. The new council
has made contracts from which savings
amounting to over £30,000 p.a. are promised
in respect of supplies of various services
and material.
Canterbury is by no means the only
Australian municipality in which admini-
stration has been “lax and unbusinesslike”
and money has been thrown away. In the
latest year for which the Commonwealth
Statistician gives particulars, Sydney sub-
urban concerns alone got in £2,319,000 and
paid out £2,633,800, a deficiency of £314,800.
Municipal loans raised in N. S. Wales
during the year totalled £3,447,000. This
amount, amazing as it is, did not include
the extensive transactions of bodies like
the Metropolitan Water, Sewerage and
Drainage Board and the Main Roads Board,
which latter concern, in pursuit of the policy
of constructing motor roads costing up to
£13,000 a mile alongside the unpayable
Government railways, has spent nearly 3t
millions in 12 months.
So there must be radical reform in this
municipal sphere, too, before we can reach
stable and safe conditions.
4
The Warning of the Stars.
A depressing note from Mrs. Mum Wright,
of Wembley Park, London, a well-known
member of the English astrological body,
who has been visiting Australasia:—
It may be of interest to know that the
horoscope of Australia cast at the inaugura-
tion of the Commonwealth gave every indi-
cation of the trouble which gathers around
her, with aspects malefic enough to cause
death to individuals. They threaten to cause
some form of eclipse of the Commonwealth.
The zodiacal sign on the horoscope is
Libra, the airy sign of balance, ruled by
Venus, with sub-rule of Saturn. Venus is a
planet of beatific influence when placed in
her own signs, or in exaltation. In Sagit-
tarius when the horoscope is cast, Venus is
in Jupiter’s sign, a very strong sign of
expansion, in this case of extravagance and
wastefulness, affecting finances.
And what are the facts? The people of
Australia are of genial, kindly,_ social tem-
perament, fond of the good things of life,
of established customs, resisting changes.
They lack as a nation emotion and sympa-
thetic feelings for their weaker brethren, a
detriment which also affects the artistic
nature. The workers have", since the estab-
lishment of the Commonwealth, been dissatis-
fied and rebellious. They are ambitious, de-
sirous of power, yet without ability, mental
or spiritual, to control and command. They
respond to the national mentality, which is
without cohesion, diffusive, lacking power of
concentration. (Can any national demonstra-
tion of this be more outstanding than the
railway-gauge system of the country?) They
have not formed any mental ambition higher
than pleasure-seeking, amusements, careless
living and an infatuation for sport. Their
interest in philosophy and science is shallow,
and they lack serious thought, even belief
in spiritual realities. They regard life as
physical only, grudging the hours of service,
demanding leisure and means for recreation.
The mental outlook is that of extreme youth.
Meanwhile, with Mercury progressed into
Capricorn, the zodiacal sign of government,
the Australian people are perpetually dis-
cussing faults of national government, instead
of their personal errors of self-government.


S
S&"
a
-^9
V
cdabajr^
OILS
(P-2
Quick Starting in Cold Weather
The bother and annoyance of slow starting are unknown to
SHELL Motorists. The volatility of SHELL Spirit and the
fluidity of SHELL Oil remain unaffected at the low tempera-
tures where other motor spirit and oils are heavy and sluggish.
Fill up with the best Spirit and Oil the SHELL Pair and
experience the pleasure of a summer start on a winter morning.
COI7T ¥
OITiJCi.L-rf.Lrf
Motor Oil
and Spirit
From Sealed Equipment
for your protection
POLITICAL
POINTS
Queensland has at last revolted against
the incapable and arrogant crowd who have
McCormack, who
came a “Cadorna.”
misgoverned a mag-
nificent country for
14 years. Thanks
to inflated rolls
and gerrymandered
electorates, the
L a b o r - socialists
Avon 43 of the 72
P a r 1 i a mentary
seats in 1923, and
again in. 1926, and
they were cocksure
of coming back
with the same old
43. But the Satur-
day-night returns
were a succession
of shocks for them,
and before mid-
night the staggered
McCormack realised that he had lost three
Ministers (Larcombe, Dunstan and Gled-
son), the Speaker (Bertram) and 12 of the
rank and file, while two other Ministers
(Kirwan and Stopford) and three or four
minor Laborites Avere being very hard
pressed. It was the worst defeat ever in-
flicted on the Labor-socialist party; with
anything like a fair grouping of electors, the
routed army would have been reduced to 20
at most.
Theodore was among the auxiliaries whom
Queensland Labor summoned from the South.
Chillagoe, liis former, constituency, showed
its appreciation of the gentleman’s return to
his old haunts by throwing out its Labor
member. So did Eacliam, which used to re-
turn Gillies, Theo’s successor in the Pre-
miership.
R. M. King, Opposition-leader Moore’s
deputy, polled 6947 votes in Logan, and
Oppositionist Kerr got 6803 in Enoggera,
whereas 1399 sufficed to elect Labor Attor-
ney-General Mullan in Flinders. If
the new men know their business they will
make an honest electoral redistribution their
first measure, and likewise enact very early
that the Federal people, who seem honest,
will provide the State roll also. As a pre-
caution it might be possible to have the joint
roll buttressed by Federal enactment.
The official cash bloodhound is pursuing
the N.S.W. employer for another million be-
cause the Child Endowment fund is a mil-
lion overdrawn, and the Bavinshaws haven’t
courage enough to repeal the new poor-law,
although they don’t believe in it. The charge
adds 2 per cent, to the wages bill, so the more
wages an employer pays the more tax he will
have to pay. As the Federal Court has just put
up wages again there is a double inducement
to reduce staffs.
The new tariff of the United States puts
greatly-increased duties on wool, fresh and
dried fruits, furs (which will probably be
good for bunny), meat, flour, butter and
eucalyptus oil; and the President may add
on 50 per cent, when the fit takes him. Aus-
tralia should give up useless protests which
only arouse contempt. A business-like
expedient would be to impose duties of 200
per cent, on various luxuries, modified by re-
bates, up to £166 13s. 4d. per cent., for the
benefit of countries with which we have pre-
ferential arrangements. If Uncle cared to
earn a preferential arrangement negotiation
would be always open. He might like us
better for taking some manly action. No-
body cares for a worm.
The Tas. Leg. Coun-
cil elections brought no
reinforcement to Mc-
Donald, Labor’s soli-
tary M.L.C. Propsting,
one-time Premier, and
now President of the
House, was opposed
for Hobart by a couple
of Labor nominees,
Cleary, formerly
M.H.A., and Lloyd.
The pair polled well
considering the re-
stricted franchise, but
not well enough.
Trips abroad for
Vic. State employees
at the public cost are
to be stopped unless
an undertaking is
given that they will
serve the Government
for a specified number
of years when they
return. In 1927
Auditor-General Nor-
ris published a list of
W. B. Propsting.
22 touring officers whose salaries and
exes, for that year ran into £20,000.
The case of Love. Vic. Inspector of
Charities, precipitated the Government’s
decision. Chief-Sec. Argyle complains
that N.S.W. borrowed Love to prepare its
new hospital legislation and is now trying to
lure him over the border. Argyle’s crowd
should have heeded Tom Moore’s warning:—
Oh you l that have the charge of Love,
Keep him in rosy bondage bound;
Loose not a tie that round him clings,
Nor ever let him use his wings.
The one-sidedness which already charac-
terises our trade with Uncle Sam is grossly
understated, bad as it looks. For instance,
in 1926-27 we took from him £41,394,000
worth of imports (though films which he
hired to us for at least a million were valued
for customs purposes at £233,000), and he
took in return £18,579,000 worth. But of
this not very large sum £10,000,000 was
sovereigns, which were badly wanted to pay
bills in London.
If the improvement in import and export
figures continues till June 30 the whole
year’s accounts will show Australia only
about £25,000,000 more in debt in its deal-
ings with its foreign creditors than it was
12 months earlier. The last year when the
position was so good as that was 1921-22.
Of course.when imports are smaller Trea-
surer Page’s customs revenue is smaller and
his deficit is larger, he not being a man
with much of a margin to go upon.
The programme of the British Labor party
suggests that Langs and Rams are much
alike. Ram undertakes : •
(1) To immediately relieve the distress on the
coalfields; (2) to reorganise the coal industry; (3)
to shorten working hours generally, which will
mean less production; (4) to “reorganise” railways,
roads and electrical arrangements; (5) to give big-
ger doles to the unemployed; (6) to supply agri-
cultural workers with better homes and a minimum
wage; and (7) to take the duties off food and “other
necessaries of life.”
If Ram takes the duty off sugar he will lose
£17,000,000 a year and play slieol with the
sugar-refining industry. The “other neces-
saries of life” leave room for mighty big
losses just when doles and other expenses
are going up gaily. Tobacco and matches
alone yield John Bull’s exchequer over
£62,000,000 a year.
The British Labor leader is as strong as
a rock on the “renewal of diplomatic and
commercial relations” with the repudiators
of Moscow. Diplomatic relations were re-
sumed with these bad characters long ago,
but they were broken off by both the British
Government and the British trades unions in
1927, when it was proved that “Arcos House”
was a nest of conspiracy and other crimes,
including the importation of indecent photo-
graphs. As for commercial relations, they
are wide open, but sellers have to depend
on the Soviet Government for payment, and
it is regarded as a common thief.
N. S. Wales closed its financial year at
June, 1928, with a big shortage, which, with
previous shortages added, made an aching
void of £4,341,181. This was added to the
fixed debt, where it costs the taxpayer £O3O
per day. It is reckoned that for 10 months
to Aprii 30 a new deficit of £4,812,691 had
banked up. Most of the income-tax revenue,
which is bigger this year than last and is
expected to be bigger still next year, is yet
to come in, but, all the same, it isn t believed
that ends will meet. Loan money is going
out at the rate of about £12,000,000 p.a.,
which means an extra £630,000 p.a. in interest,
But as the taxation bill grows about £400,000
a year faster than the interest bill it is
regretfully inferred that the “works” which
the State buys with its loan money yield in
the aggregate nothing per cent, above run-
ning expenses, or less than that.
Fighting to the last, Vic. Forests Commis-
sion was beaten in its struggle to retain 7000
acres of timber country between Hordern-
vale and Apollo; the area, Cabinet has de-
cided, is to go to the Lands Department for
subdivision into 35 farms. In exchange
80,000 acres north of Hordern-vale will be
given up by the Lands Department for
afforestation, but the Forest Commission
says it would have got that anyway.
The announcement of the imported ex-
parson Garden that he and his merry men
would march through Melbourne 1500 strong
and possibly loot a warehouse and stick up
free meals, also his threat that Melbourne
and other towns would be laid in darkness,
and that extensive robberies would naturally
take place, evoked a sort of official helpless
ness. Premier MilkPherson decided that he
could do nothing as the law r stands, and he
has let it stand for some time. Prime Min-
ister Bruce said he could do nothing, but he
believed MilkPherson could act if MilkP.
wanted to. It might be different if each
State had its own militia, after the U.S.
fashion, which could occupy threatened
points quietly and unobtrusively, and head
off disorderly processions. When 1963 police-
men are spread over 87,884 square miles of
land protection is a mockery, and the attempt
makes too much fuss.
The band was out in Chelsea (Vic.) the
other day, that collection of shops, garages,
cinemas and bungalows having been pro-
claimed a city-—i.e., a place with a minimum
revenue of £20,000 p.a. The multiplying of
these featureless “cities” goes on at a great
rate. There are now 25 of them round about
Melbourne, all under separate managements,
and each as like the other as a row' of
petrol-tins.
The N. S. Wales Government has ordered
the police to take every possible step to end
the outrages by which timber-strikers and
others are turning Sydney into a pande-
monium. This suggestion that the under-
manned force is running stiff is a cloak for
incompetence, Australian Governments have
primitive ideas about how a civilised com-
munity should be bobbied. In England and
Wales the density of settlement makes the
criminal class more easy to handle, the
average distance to be covered in pursuit of
one ci’iminal being much less. Still England
and Wales maintain one strong-arm-of-the
law' for 686 condensed inhabitants, and Aus-
tralia one for 800 scattered inhabitants. An
obvious reason why Sydney and Melbourne
are drifting into the hands of most objection-
able mobs is that lack of protection can’t
be compensated for by eloquent appeals to the
officer to brisk up and be in eight places at
once.
Alf Jones, who runs
the Mines Department,
was the only Queens-
land Minister whom
the other side did
not oppose. He
sits for Paddington,
one of the safest
Labor districts in
Australia. Young
Paterson, the very
unusual Rhodes
Scholar, contested the
seat as a Left Winger.
He got a little sup-
port from the sort of
people who would
rather vote for a can-
nibal than a pledged
Laborite, but Jones’s
majority was, a s
usual, immense.
A. J. Jones.
Dr. Arthur, N.S.W. Minister for Health,
promises to have a shot at his Milk Bill
next session. There is to be a board repre-
senting all the producers; it is to sit, of
course, in Sydney and fix prices. By cut-
ting down costs of production and distribu-
tion the doctor expects to reduce the price
by 2d. per quart and to double consumption.
No doubt a thorough business man, as dis-
tinct from a philanthropist, could reorganise
so as to cut a little off the cost of most
things, but if fierce and well-meant price-
fixing made the cow trade less worth while
than it is now, consumption might go down
instead of up, unless cow-fluid wa ® * m P ~
By recent figure the Commonwealth s outpu
of dairy and farmyard produce
£47.000,000 a year, and of this £40,000,UU
worth was used by its own people,
less and dissipated milk-drinking would
the export trade in short order.
Since November 1, 1900, 12
bly general elections have been neld m ’ 1 -•
It is expected that the present Astern dij
will go out of business in September
October, in which case the average le gt
of the 12 Parliaments will have been
years. Cynics among the old hands aver
if members’ screws were raised tron .\.J t ? I 'n
to £750 every Parliament would run its
course. ,
A brisk argument on the subject of roa
construction has been raging in the isyaney
Minister Bruxner.
morning papers. Min-
ister Bruxner says
money was chucked
away in the past on
water-bound macadam
highways that cost
over £7OOO a mile, and
went to pieces in a
few years; engineer
Allan says it is being
chucked away now on
“costly deviations and
spectacular works
of construction” in
the concrete Hue, one
specimen (Sydney-
Neweastle) being esti-
mated to eat up
£15,000 a mile. J. C.
Watson, as president
of the N.R.M.A., says
motorists don’t want
“luxury roads” in out-
of-the-way parts, but
such roads are being
thrust on them. The
ex-Prime Minister
might have added that
the fool-Government. which is doing the
thrusting has a chronic deficit, and that its
railways are losing heavily.
Ramsay MacDonald has made it abun-
dantly clear that his next Government, if
there is one, won’t help the iron and steel,
engineering and textile industries _ by the
simple and efficient process of giving .J.
Bull greater control of his own markets.
But he promises to “immediately use export
credits, trade facilities and guarantees” to
“stimulate” all three. This means, if it
means anything, that the British Treasury
is to back the bills of bad customers like
the Red Russians, who want hundreds of
millions’ worth of British goods on long tick.
When the late A. O. Sachse was edged out
of the Bent Ministry in October, 1908, mem-
bers of Vic. Assembly swore that they would
never tolerate another Uppish House man as
Minister for Education. Cohen is the first
M.L.C. to hold the portfolio since Sachse,
and, according to lobby gossip, he is not
handling Assemblymen tactfully. Lemmon,
the shrewd secretary of the Labor Parlia-
mentary party, knew how to mitigate irrita-
tion when he was Minister under Hogan, but
Cohen can’t visualise the figures on the green
benches over the way. He can only see plush
benches. It might have been better, politi-
cally, if McPherson had persuaded Macfar-
lan to take Education and let Cohen have
Law.
The. triangular Bald-Ram-Lloyd electoral
contest is a quaint business. The finding
of work obscures all other matters, as yet at
least. George says he can do it—by the
oldest and shabbiest trick in politics. Ram
Mac says he can and will do it —apparently
just by being a Labor Prime Minister, for
other details are lacking. Baldwin says he
is busy showing how to do it, as far and
as fast as old prejudice will permit, and
that he was doing it well till a record indus-
trial upheaval capsized his caravan.
Bitter complaint is made in England that
Baldwin lacks the blast and blither which
the occasion requires, this being no ordinary
election. Like Alfred Deakin, he is too much
of a gentleman, and doesn’t promise impos-
sibilities. The stock of Lloyd George seems
for the time to be on the rise. Compared
with the wilted Welshman that he was in
1924, the change is marvellous, the difference
being that he has an idea now and he hadn’t
the ghost of an idea then. It is the old Aus-
tralian quack nostrum of curing unemploy-
ment by raising big loans, and putting
men to work, not permanently at their own
trades by a revival of industry, but on public
works which will last till the funds give
out. An audience 10,000 strong listened
enthralled while David put his loan scheme
before it in so many ways that it sounded
like a dozen separate schemes and several
dozen different loans.
“The Quartermaster,” the £5OO First
Prize Novel, with superb illustrations by
Norman Lindsay, will begin publication
in next week’s “Bulletin.”
THE CHRISTIANS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A candidate at Liverpool, England, who admitted
in answer to a question that he was not a follower
of Jesus Christ, was knocked off the platform and his
clothes torn from his back. The police rescued him
from an infuriated crowd.”
Had he professed unwillingness to follow
George or Itamsay Mac or Stanley
He might have looked for hostile yells or
hollow
Groans from one section’s claqueurs, you’ll
agree,
But this was rather more than they could
swallow,
The partisans of any of the three.
Whatever other differences were
Between them, all were sturdy Christians
there.
What! Should a heathen on his own ad-
mission,
A pagan or agnostic self-avowed,
One obviously destined for perdition
Electioneer a Christian crowd !
An atheist for churchmen’s votes petition!
Some shook their lists and others howled
aloud.
Then on the heretic with ardor keen
They fell, the followers of the Nazarene.
Freetrade or Single Tax to regions Stygian
He might with . minimum of risk have
cursed;
’Twouldn’t have cooked his goose or grassed
his pigeon
Had he the Throne assailed or Crown
aspersed.
But when he threw a brickbat at religion
The boundaries of Christian tolerance
burst....
If he’s a scoffer still, it isn’t because
They didn’t show him where his error was.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Troy Roy”: The uniuckiest, leadswiuger
I ever met was a conscientious objector who
shared a bivvy with myself and a cobber
near Bapaume. He was always telling us
that he had been forced so far against his
will and that he was going no farther, but
we didn’t take much notice until one morning
as we stood outside the bivvy a rifle went off
just behind and a bullet ploughed up the
dust between us. On investigating, we round
WELL HOOKED.
MOTHER: “Isn’t he rather fast, dear?”
DAUGHTER: “Yes, he’s fast all right ; but I don’t think hell get away."
the pacifist with the evidence in his hands and
minus a boot. He was sitting with his leg
extended. “That’ll settle it!” he declared,
but by some marvellous chance the bullet
had passed between two of his toes and only
taken off a little skin. A sergeant grabbed
him and we never saw him again.
* * * *
“Shep”: Few returned men would scoff at
premonitions of death. There were many
definite cases of Diggers, _ some of them old-
timers, going into the line convinced that
they would never come out alive. The night
before Pozieres one of the mob received a
huge parcel of cigars that should have lasted
him for months. All he kept was enough
to do him till next night, arguing they
wouldn’t be any good to him after that.
He was killed on his way to the front line
next morning. I remember a non-com. sud-
denly handing over his cash to a mate with
a request that it should be used in shouting
for the mob when they got back to the
region of estaminets again. The testator
was killed the same morning. Again we had
a Digger who was quite convinced that if he
could dodge a certain stunt he’d get home,
but if he couldn’t his soldiering was fin-
ished. He did all he could to get out of
it, but was unsuccessful. We left him behind
when we came out of the line. I only struck
one who professed to be in constant touch
with the spirits. After his time was fore-
casted he used to have nightly arguments
with his informants near the village cem-
etery, with the result that before the stunt
which was to be his final one he became a
nervous wreck. To that extent he got the
better of his spooks, ending up unfit for
further service in the line.
* * *
“Merris”: Coming up from Kangaroo
Island, the boat put in at Second Valley
to load barley, and among the wharfies en-
gaged was an old fellow with a snow-white
beard and silver locks falling to his should-
ers. Despite the fact that his back was
straight and his movements sprightly, we
placed his age at anything from 70 to SO,
but when we told him our guesses he laughed,
and cheerfully laid claim to 95 ! Is that
a record for a wharf-laborer?
* * * *
“P.M.”: The cables recently mentioned the
case of a woman, drowned in the Thames,
who always persisted in claiming that she
had fought as a soldier in the A.l.land
produced papers to show that she was 1 n-
vate No. 180,802. Base Records officials
thereupon stated that there were no regi-
mental numbers as high as that in the A. 1.1.
The paybook numbers went that high, how-
ever (mine was 198,739), and it is highly
probable that the woman had in her posses-
sion the lost, paybook of a Digger. The rest,
of the yarn, considering the frequency oi
medical inspections, is almost certainly
fiction.
* » *
“W.K.”: Shortly after receiving a sen-
tence of three years for theft, a prisoner
became ill and was sent to the Wardland
Hospital at Wellington (M.L.) for treat-
ment. After he had been there a couple ot
days a new surgeon took charge of the case
and, not knowing that his patient was a
convict (the warder was temporarily absent
from the bedside, took him to the office
and discharged him as cured. The police
are. still looking for the “escapee.” -
.j: *t; Vjc #
“Mudurup”: Bodies of men who have
perished far from civilisation have been
recovered and carried over vast distances for
interment on several occasions since the re-
mains of Bourke and Wills were con\eyed
to Melbourne in 1861. Probably nowhere
have they been carried further than in W.A.
In the late ’sixties Maitland Brown, who
was later to become one of W estralia s best-
known magistrates, led a small party into
the then almost unknown Kimberley country
arid encountered blacks who had never pre-
viously seen a white man, the object of his
quest being the bones of Panton, Goldwyer
and another pioneer, murdered by natives
while they slept. He brought back the dead,
and they were buried in Perth; a monument
in Fremantle to Maitland himself commemo-
rates the achievement. In 1897 Wells and
Jones, two members of the ill-fated Calvert
expedition, separated by arrangement from
the main party in the Far North, somewhere
near Joanna Springs, and never rejoined it.
Two rescue parties searched for them, start-
ing from different points; the remains were
eventually taken right round to Adelaide for
burial. , .
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: Judges may jib at words like
“bob.” but I know a banker who was less
particular. A S. Aus. squatter wrote out a
cheque which passed through several
hands before it reached the bank.
Then a ledger-keeper noticed that it
was for eight “quid and took it to
tile boss. “Signature all light?” asked
the latter. “Quito right,” he was assured.
“Thou let it go through ; it’s Australian if
it isn’t English.” As a matter of fact, it
Avas English (for a guinea) before ever there
was an Australia.
!|! * $ *
“Hayband”: At Rooty Hill (N.S.W.) is
probably the oddest-shaped paddock in Aus-
tralia. It is three-quarters of a mile long
by 2ft. 6in. wide, and is the result of an argu-
ment that dates back half a century. A
landoAvner claimed a certain line as his
boundary, and, despite his neighbor’s pro-
tests, fenced accordingly. Later, the Lands
Department ruled that the fence encroached
2ft. 6in. Another was built on the correct
division, and litigation commenced over the
payment therefor. Soon afterwards the pair
of dour old Scots who had begun the dispute
passed to where there are no boundaries,
and their sons buried the hatchet.
*** ■ *
“Murkah”: Hurry-up telegraphy, spread
over years, frequently affects the operator’s
health. Gradually it is borne in on him
that certain letters are becoming difficult to
form. He concentrates ,on them and for a
time overcomes the trouble, hut other letters
add themselves to his black list, and he
begins to look sideways at an ever-increas-
ing proportion of the alphabet. Literally
his nerves are being pulled inside-out, and
he is on the way to telegraphic breakdown.
The adoption of one of the mechanical aids
may mend matters, but it does not altogether
overcome the trouble. Even the machine has
“awkward” letters. A long experience has
convinced me that O and J, due to the
large proportion of dashes they contain,
A COLD SNAP.
“Now, Tommy, remember what I’ve told you — I. want to be
quite fair to you."
“Fair’s no good to me—I want you to be warmer."
start many telegraphists on the down-grade.
For the same reason they are difficult on the
machine. If O, which is made of three
dashes, were altered to dot-dash-dot-dash,
and J constructed of dot-dasli and three
dots, instead of a dot and three dashes,
there would be fewer breakdowns.
* * * *
“Pila”: David Lennox’s bridge-building
wasn't confined to N. S. Wales (B. l/5/’29) ;
Victoria’s first worth-while bridge was
stretched across the Yarra by him. At the
time it was the most imposing bridge in
Australia; the arch had a 150 ft. span. The
structure of basalt and, granite, cost over
£14,000. Governor Latrobe laid the founda-
tion-stone in 1846, and the bridge was opened
for traffic four years later. This was the
second Prince’s Bridge ; the first was a rude
wooden structure. With the exception of
the foundation-stone of the second, still pre-
served in a Fitzroy garden, all traces of both
have vanished. The third and present bridge
was opened in 188 S, after £150,000 had been
spent on it.
* * * *
“Cluden”: There is still a flavor of the
unusual about life in North Queensland.
It was reported the other day that two
policemen walking along
Flinders-street, the main
thoroughfare of Towns-
ville, in the a.m. hours
encountered a crocodile,
which immediately assum-
ed an attitude of hostil-
ity. After its arrest the
beast was identified as a
pet belonging to one of
the local publicans, from
whose back yard it had
escaped. The reptile was
returned to its grateful
owner and the incident
closed. Many years ago,
in almost the same spot,
a constable collided with
a croc, which was parad-
ing the verandah of the
G.P.O. between the dark
and the dawn. In that
case the creature was be-
lieved to have come up
from Ross Creek, along
one bank of which Flin-
ders-street runs. Any-
way, no one ever claimed
it as part of Jiis private zoo.
* * * *
“Nakhoda” : An extraordinary fate met CO
ont of a mob of 1400 jumbucks in East
Brunswick (Vic.) the other day. Their
owner, who had just purchased them at
Newmarket, was droving his flock to the
Preston abattoirs, when 20 dropped dead
after drinking from a gutter. Before he
could get the lot away, nearly 40 more had
taken a lethal dose. Inquiry elicited that
a neighboring electro-plating works had. just
baled 20 gallons of a solution containing
95 p.c. of cyanide of potassium into a lane
which led into the street. It further trans-
pired that the firm was in the habit of get-
ting rid of the deadly mixture this way. The
police promptly flushed out the gutter and,
after returning to his parents a four-year-
old child who was playing at boats in the
solution, warned the electro-plating firm to
be more careful in the future though,
according to the Health authorities, no
offence was committed.
* * * *
“R.N.8.”: Many Diggers will have old
memories stirred by a sentence in Cecil
Mann’s article (R.P. l/5/’29),. “Somehow
the furphy spread round the building.
“Furphy” was in general use in the earlier
war years, especially in Egypt, where the
best liars were proud of their titles of
“Furphy Kings.” But it began to die out of
use in France, and I haven’t heard the word
used lialf a dozen times since the war. I
never could quite satisfy myself about the
origin of the word. It started in a military
camp in Northern Vic., where galvanised-
iron tanks and garbage-carts were branded
“Furphy.” But what’s that got to do with
it? I remember talking it over in France.
One theory was that anything that was con-
tained in a tank and wasn’t beer was a
mere rumor —hence a furphy. Another was
that, as the best known of the brothers
Furphy was the old Bulletin writer ‘Tom
Collins,” and as “Tom Collins” is, or was,
colloquial for liar, a furphy also became
colloquial Australian for a lie or a rumor.
* * * *
“Gad” • In the genteel suburb of Eliza-
beth Bay (Sydney) the old Macleay man-
sion stands disconso-
lately marooned on a
corner. The 50 sur-
rounding acres, upon
which Alexander Mac-
leay once planted his
exotic bulbs to make
a magnificent garden,
have al] disappeared
under bricks and mor-
tar. The Macleay
family lived in this
house for the best
part of a century.
From them it passed
to Colonel Onslow,
who sold it to one
Gotthelf, the last occu-
pant of the house.
Arthur Allen bought
it for £15,000 and in-
stalled a caretaker—
and there it stands.
Although visitors —and
there have been some
very distinguished
ones, including Melba
—are still regaled
with stories about the
convict days and fear-
some happenings in
the “dungeons” below,
these are pure fiction.
The only connection
the house had with
convicts is that they
built it. The “dun-
geons” were merely
cellars. Incidentally,
John Longstaff uses a
room, by courtesy of
the owner, as a studio.
The house is certainly
the best specimen of a
Georgian mansion in Australia, and some-
thing should be done to preserve it for the
Commonwealth.
* * * *
“Narratarra”: A nolle prosequi could
pretty confidently be relied on nowadays
after* two separate juries had been unable
to agree on the innocence or guilt of an
accused man, but it wasn’t always so. Over
in Westralia in the ’seventies a man
was actually tried three times for murder.
The first jury was about equally divided;
on the second two determinedly held out for
acquittal; it was only at the. third try that
the Crown obtained a conviction. An ordeal
such as that prisoner must have endured in
the dock while he watched the odds growing
heavier against him might have been held
to entitle him to some measure of mercy,
even if it involved a life-sentence, but the
thrice-tried man went to the gallows, although
he was a citizen of some position and family
influence was exerted to try and procure a
reprieve until the very last. The then colony
had only just ceased to be a convict settle-
ment, hangings of lowlier malefactors had
been all too frequent, and the Government
of the day was afraid to let it appear that
it was a respecter of persons when a grave
crime had been committed.
* * * *
“D.”: The attempt to institute the cafe
system of drinking at Canberra was a total
failure. Imbibers, instead of sipping their
liquor in the intervals of conversation, after
the restrained French fashion, gulped it until
they were incapable of conversation. This
is what has invariably happened wherever
tables have been provided for drinkers in
Australia. It has made the name “wine-
shop” a by-word, and it has led to the
establishment of bars in clubs of the highest
standing, not merely in the cities of Aus-
tralia, but all over the Empire. For an
inability to drink in moderation when the
process is made too comfortable is not an ex-
clusively Australian trait. Fifty years ago,
when fewer objections were voiced against
excessive drinking, no reputable London
club would have' thought of having a bar
on the premises. Now one has been installed
in almost every club —as a discouragement
to hard drinking. The campaign against
the boozer is growing in force, and I con-
fidently expect to see the day when drinkers
will have to gratify their unfashionable taste
in shameful isolation, as cigar-smokers had
to in the early part of Queen Victoria’s
reign.
* * * *
“P.X.”: The Prince’s Highway, which
winds along the coast from Melbourne to
Sydney, has hitherto had the help of three
punts, though two of them you could avoid
by going inland, and I suppose you could
get out of the way of the third by passing
west of Bourke. The greatest of them, at
Tom Ugly’s, a few miles out of Sydney,
has been put on the shelf by the new
George’s River bridge; and now there s a
cry of pain that can be heard at Barren-
joey because, whereas the punt was free,
they charge you Is. at week-ends and on
holidays and fid. at other times to drive a
car across. As a matter of fact, Australians
have been quite spoiled by their milch-cow
Governments in this matter. Somehow the
idea got abroad that in England they had
abolished all tolls as things of the dark ages ;
but personally I’ve paid anything and almost
everything from id. to 10s. at toll-bars in
England and Scotland. . The 10s. was in
Scotland, at a loch alongside Ballyliungry,
or words to that effect —up beyond the loch
is Glen doe, where the Campbells and their
friends had the little disagreement. Before
ever it left the boat the 10s. was divided,
half going to the laird, who permitted the
loch to, be desecrated, and the _ other half
to the man who did the desecrating.
THE DINKUM OIL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bards who with me the muses woo,
Or, if you like, co-poetasters,
I have a tip to offer you,
Lend me your quiv’ring ears, my masters.
Two lines I’ll pack it in, and lay
'Twill well be worth your while to weigh it.
Just this: The less you have to say
The more it matters how you say it.
Brownings, O’Dowds and those who climb
Aloft on striking thoughts and fancies
With metre’s laws and rules of rhyme
Can take illimitable chances.
Not we, who can’t or don’t aspire
To bays they make a laureate’s crown
with;
Not we, who mostly smite the lyre
For scran —and beer to wash it down
•with.
Yet staves to smoothness trimmed and
brought
If not exactly panaceas
Are screens for paucity of thought
And utter absence of ideas.
No beauty prize she’d win mayhap,
The Muse who prompts our tenuous
ditties;
Still, we can tint her homely “map’
And doll her up in rhythmic “pretties.”
Some ladies need no raiment’s aid
To beauty, which was just as well for
The lightly-costumed beggarmaid
Whom good old King Cophetua “fell tor ;
Her very rags but helped display
More tellingly the charms below them....
There may be Muses built that way
But, brothers, ’tisn’t ours to know them.
So trick your verse in dainty dress;
Few things obscure the rank affliction
Of literary barrenness
Like metrically flowing diction.
Give rhyme and measure care devout
And into print ’tis odds you'll swing it.
Here’s frozen truth beyond a doubt:
The less you have to sing about,
The more it matters how you sing it.
N.S.W,
T. THE R.


“X.Z.”: There’s a link between the strand-
ing of the Southern Cross and the early his-
tory of Australasia. Captain George Grey,
aged 25, and his friend Lieutenant Lushing-
ton, sent out to explore Britain's new conti-
nent, landed at Port George Inlet, Hanover
Bay or King’s Sound, as it was then vari-
ously termed, in 1837, the year of Queen
Victoria’s accession. It is on this inlet that
the Port George IV. mission station is sit-
uated. They had come from Capetown in
the chartered 140-ton schooner Lynher.
Grey,' who afterwards was twice Governor
and" then Premier of Maoriland, describes
the country graphically in his book “Travels
in North-West and Western Australia.” He
and his companions were the first white men
to attempt to penetrate the wilds of the
North-West, and their leader’s account of
their adventures makes exciting reading. Un-
fortunately very few copies of the book are
extant to-day.
NO NEED TO WORRY ABOUT A CHEQUE.
“Billy’s all right. He’s giving me a cheque for my birthday.”
“I don’t think I’d take a cheque if I were you.”
“But it’s all right. He showed me his bank-book and he’s got a large overdraft.”
“C.Q.”: Workmen engaged on street re-
pairs in Bendigo the other day got the
shock of their lives when a tool went through
a hole in the surface and clattered hollowly
down for a distance estimated to be over 200
feet. What they had stumbled on was a
shaft sunk on the old Garden Gully reef.
The extraordinary thing about it was that
there had been nothing between passers-by
and eternity except the usual street founda-
tions for years and years.
* * * *
“Carriek, A. 8.” : The world’s biggest wind-
jammer, the five-masted Banish . barque
Ivobenhavn, long overdue in Australia from
South America, has been posted missing at
Lloyds, and there is no clue to her fate. Her
keei was laid at Leith only nine years ago.
At anchor or under sail, the barque was a
treat to a sailor’s eye; she was kept as spick
and span as a battleship ; her fittings were
splendid, and her lines were the last .word
in speed, beauty and seaworthiness. The
most plausible theory to account for her dis-
appearance is that, while under full sail in
dirty weather, she ran full tilt into that
nightmare of high latitudes-—ice. Such a
shock might well have brought her sticks
crashing down, with her wireless aerials,
hindering the launching of any boats not
smashed, and rendering an SOS impossible.
The steamer Deucalion, bound from Capetown
to Port Adelaide, is now searching the Crozets
and Kerguelen Island for wreckage or pos-
sible survivors of her crew of TO, which in-
cluded 50 young navigation apprentices.
* * * *
“Merris”: Our band on the troopship
didn’t know any National Anthems, but they
had a conglomeration called “Airs from All
Nations,” which they played whenever we
passed a foreign warship. It began with
Yankee Doodle, drifted through the unfami-
liar cadences of the Belgic Anthem, changed
suddenly to the sombre chant of the Russ,
slid imperceptibly into the Marseillaise, and
wound up with a Spanish bull-fight and “God
Save.” An air of puzzled silence enveloped
many an Allied fighting ship when served
with this mixture, but it always gave place
to loud cheering when the correct national
stimulant was tapped.
❖ * ❖ *
“Bad Australian”: There are the makings
of a hardy race in Swanpool (Vic.), where
the population is mostly Evans
when it isn’t Murray. At a
recent 1.0. R. picnic the most
intriguing item on the sports
programme was the Ladies’ Log
Chop. I am advised that the
technique displayed by the win-
ner has excited much favorable
comment in wood-jambing and
sleeper-cutting circles, the only
jarring note being struck by an
admirer of the lady champion
spud-digger of the adjacent
territory of Tumhleup. whose
place in the local limelight lias
been usurped by the Lady with
the Axe.
“Mells”: Man-made laws may tend to be
one-sided, but not always in the sense in
which the word is used by feminine
reformers. If England’s latest sex problem
had been a man masquerading as a
woman, she (or he) would have been com-
mitting a punishable offence. But there is
no law forbidding a woman to masquerade
as a man, although it is conceivable that it
might lead just as easily to a breach of the
peace or some equally undesirable complica-
tion. Hence “Captain Barker” was convicted
and sentenced not for dressing in masculine
garb and indulging in various masculine
diversions, but for describing herself in a
marriage register as somebody and something
which she wasn’t.
$ * * *
“Kerys” : It was in the smoker of a train
on the North Shore (Sydney) line that two
city solicitors engaged in a violent quarrel.
One was pompous and elderly, the other
young and aggressive, but both were in a
furious temper and each bore evidences of
having called at a pub or two before closing
time. Finally the younger, who had to
alight a station ahead of his adversary, arose
unsteadily and, as he passed the enemy, dealt
him a blow on the chin. His recollection of
the episode was hazy next morning, but
when a neighboring solicitor called at his
office to refresh his memory he was quite
prepared to believe that he had behaved
badly. “Seeing that Blank is the older man,
I think it’s up to you to apologise to him.
Slip round to his office now,” advised the
friend. The offender sought the office of
Blank, and found that worthy, restored to
pomposity, sobriety and dignity, sitting at his
desk. With some difficulty the caller spoke
of the train episode, and finished up with a
profound apology. Old Blank’s eye was
frozen as he regarded him, and his face
went a dull red as lie pointed to the door.
“Get out of here, you damn liar,” he said.
“I wasn’t in the train you’ve been talking
about. I went home by car!” Then the
other began to realise that apologies may
sometimes be a mistake,
* /* ' -
“Bad Australian”: Verily the female of
the species does more and more of the select-
ing. A few days ago I saw a couple of smartly
dressed flappers cruising around one of the
Sydney beaches in an expensive juggernaut
passing an appraising eye over the assembled
sheikery. Whenever they sighted a pair of
more than usually ornate knuts they gave the
gilded youths the gladeye and “chatted”
them for a few minutes before continuing
their cruise. They seemed hard to please,
but eventually, after giving the assembled
multitude a thorough overhauling, they came
to a decision, and passed the high sign to a
resplendent pair of Valentinos, who there-
upon hopped into the car. The flapper at
the wheel stepped on it, and the party lit
out for the rainbow’s end.
NO PRIZE FOR ABIE.
JOE: “Buyin' a ticket in the raffle, Abie?"
ABIE: “Raffle! Vat’s the raffle for?”
JOE: “For the poor widder Binno.”
ABIE: “No! Vat vould I do vit a poor vidder?”
“C.Cj.” : Although the grim records of the
old Melbourne Gaol show only 27 burials as
having taken place in the station yard, 35
skeletons were recovered during the recent
excavations and removed to Pentridge. The
discrepancy is attributed to the prison
records going back only to 1880; the pre-
ceding eight were unknown murderers. As
for the identifiable ones, the stone in the
wall bearing Ned Kelly’s initials and the
Government brand differed in one particular
from all the others. For some unascertain-
able reason the arrow pointed not down-
wards but upwards.
* * * *
“Adelaide” : What looks like a new varia-
tion of an old swindle has been reported to
the Adelaide police. The young man from
the country showed his valuable ring, of
which he wished to dispose, to the usual
friendly stranger, who obligingly mentioned
the best pawnshop and volunteered to secure
an expert’s opinion on the value of the
bauble. And disappeared through a back
door? No; there was the novelty. He came
out again with £3 as _ the price obtained.
The owner scouted this as altogether too
little, and went in to get the ring back. It
took only a minute for the pawnbroker to
explain that the recent visitor had but asked
a question, and had not left any ring; but
that minute was sufficient for the plausible
stranger and the ring to vanish completely.
* * * *
“Chevroford” : A reminder that accidents are
not a monopoly of the motor era was fur-
nished the other day when a horse attached
to a lorry bolted in Melbourne. It flung
out the driver and fractured his skull. It
then charged a motor-cai-, tried to climb
over the bonnet, freed itself from the harness,
continued its mad career for half a mile,
and collided with,another motor-car, tearing
off the door, smashing the windscreen and
injuring one of the passengers. Finally it
burst through a plate-glass window into a
shop. No motor-car has ever equalled that
performance.
* * * *
“Banker”: A Northern N.S.W. orchardist
who recently applied for an overdraft was
asked to fill in the usual bank form. In
reply to the question, “Is there any en-
cumbrance on the property?” he wrote
“Yes. Two boys and four girls, but they
are all well-grown and useful.”
* * * *
“Oxmead”; The hullabaloo raised over the
Canberra coat-of-arms serves as a. reminder
that the designers of such decorations were
more original when Australia was young and
apparently less susceptible to the rosewater
preferences of the College of Heralds. The
first seal granted to the colony of N. S.
Wales by George 111. in 1791 had the follow-
ing for its salient feature: —
Convicts being landed at Botany Bay, their fetters
are taken off and they are received by Industry,
sitting on a bale of merchandise, surrounded by a
spinning-wheel, beehive, pickaxe and spade. She
points to oxen ploughing, buildings being constructed,
and a church in the distance, with a fort for defence.
Unfortunately the seal arrived before there
was any sealing-wax in the colony to use
it on, so that impressions had to be made
on paper coated with paste. The Ma State
has had seven seals since then, but the con-
vict group was not omitted until 1853, and
many representations of this idyllic picture
still exist.
* * * *
“W.1.U.”: Broken Hill, the roaring old
mining-camp which once had four breweries
o‘f its own and a hotel on almost every
corner, has become so civilised that the
Hotelkeepers’ Association has asked the
Licensing Reduction Board to make a special
visit and further reduce the number of its
pubs. Unfortunately, all the board could do
was to point out that it had already ex-
hausted its powers in the way of rfcducing
licenses. Broken Hill voted solidly against
Prohibition, too.
“Nakhoda”: Pained surprise is being ex-
pressed because the latest batch of American
tourists proposes to spend a bare eight days
in Australia, though the country gets little
advantage from these massed tours, in which
the American genius for organisation and
labor-saving reach their finest flower. Accom-
panying each ship are lecturers, whose duty
it is to swat up the great natural resources,
hahits and customs of the natives of each
country visited before it looms over the bow.
Thus the tired business man and his lady,
w 7 ho are really out for a rest and a lark, will
not only know all about this country before
they reach it, hut will be able to read what
they might have done in it after they have
left. When the Carinthia was in Melbourne
three years ago for a day and a half, a
majority of the tourers were back on board
within 12 hours. They found nothing ashore
to compensate for the loss of the Carinthia
cocktails or its Roman bath.
* * * *
“Exdig” : The sergeant baker in the A.S.C.
who received the D.C.M. (B. 8/5/’29) was
located at Boulogne, not Le Havre, and
he didn’t get it for the excellence of his
loaves, either. But for his pluck and that
of his assistants (several M.M.’s were
handed out, too) the army might have felt a
hard jolt in that part of its anatomy whereon
it travels. Boulogne was subjected to a
series of heavy bombing raids; one big army
bakery was put out of action, and another
was damaged; but knowing that the bread
was wanted up the line, and that they would
have to turn out a double quantity, the staff
of the third kept going even when the bomb 3
were falling. “Devotion to duty whilst under
fire” was quite a correct description.
* * * *
“Lucerne Flea”: Here is an ancient
dodge for victimising Bung, still worked
occasionally in country districts. The
operator waits until a vehicle stops out-
side the pub, and then hurries into
the bar with some such demand as this:
“Two butchers and a handle. Let’s have
the butchers first, the women won’t come
inside, and I’ll take their drinks out while
you pull the handle for me.” Having heard
a car stop outside, the unsuspecting publican
fills the two glasses, which are promptly
carried outside. By the time he thinks of
going out to see why the bloke in a hurry
hasn’t come back to negotiate his own drink
and pay for the lot, the trickster has
vanished. All Bung can do is pick up the
two empty glasses. Sometimes he can’t
do even that.
* * . * *
“Lex”: Sydney ’Varsity professors and
others have been clamoring for the altera-
tion of the Canberra motto (“Pro rege, lege
et grcgc”), some because of the superfluous
“et,” others because “ grex ” carries the wrong
shade of meaning. The thing the pundits
really object to is what is known as “Mon-
kish Latin,” and it is to be found on the
crests of many of the ancient peerages.
Why Canberra couldn’t have had a motto in
the English language is a mystery which
can be explained only by the theory ex-
pressed t by a great London advocate that
“Heraldry is a silly old trade engaged in by
silly old men.”
❖ * ifc Jfc
“Questo”: The most scurvily-treated
restorer of lost property I ever heard
of was a lad who lived on the Palmer
(Q.) in the roaring days of that goldfield.
He caught a packliorse wandering in the
scrub with over a thousand ounces of gold
in the pack-bags. The lad brought the horse
into Maytown, where he found the owner
half-way through a big spree. When he
sobered up the lucky digger bought his bene-
factor a bag of lollies!
* * * *
“Uramao”: The ghoulish scramble for the
bones of Ned Kelly reminds me that it took
the Dublin authorities all their time to pre-
vent souvenir-hunters carrying away, bit by
bit, the skeletons of .John and Henry Sheares,
two of the ’9B rebels who were executed in
Ivilmainhqm Gaol. When I went down into
the vaults of old St. Michan’s, where the
bodies of the Sheares brothers are, I found
that the bodies had been enclosed in lead
coffins to prevent visitors from indulging
their morbid fancies. Before this one curio-
hunter had got off with the head of John
Sheares, and it was 20 years before it was
restored. Overcome by the reprehensible
impulse, I pocketed a piece of the moulder-
ing wood-coffin outside the leaden casket and
took it back to Maoriland.
THE SONG-BIRDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A bridegroom at Dinant (Belgium), in reply to
the formal question, ‘Do you take this woman to be
your wedded wife?’ replied by singing a comic song,
‘I Want to Remain a Bachelor.’ ”
The postie in my letter-box dropped a re-
turned MS.,
A seedsman’s catalogue, some bills, a water-
rate excess,
And all the other items he is wont to bring
along,
Announcing his arrival with a burst of swell-
ing song.
No more he blows his whistle
With each deftly dropped epistle;
But trolls a choice selection from his reper-
toire of song.
I met a stalwart constable and asked of him
how far
The station? He replied, “Funiculi, funicula.
A hundred yards, hey nonino.” And as I
went away.
He threw a pas sail on the pave and trolled
a roundelay.
No more with manner snorty
But with basso mezzo-forte
The copper homing with a drunk will troll
a roundelay.
I went into a restaurant to struggle with
some scran.
The waitress took my order and she warbled
as she ran:
“Some tea, tra la, on order, and a slice of
underdone.
“Sweet sweet, tweet tweet! No sweet? O
willow-waly here’s a bun.”
And thus each light soprano
Will order soup piano
And if there be no sweet to tweet will
melodise a bun.
But it is hard for me, although I try like
anything,
And bought a tonic-sol-fa book, acceptably
to sing.
The sweetest girl of all I know refused me
to my face,
For, though I had the wit to woo, she
scorned my chapel-bass.
’Twas nought that love ecstatic
Aspired to trills chromatic;
Her pretty nose she wrinkled at my blunder-
ing chapel-bass,
The mumbling and the rumbling of my
grumbling chapel-bass.
VICTORIA.
WAWHERESH.


mmm
iiiSiteir"
:: : '•: Sj: •: <s«s£?©i'
j ;>j» ?• ji*|£ :]: •: •: £•*•}•: j: jrjjiCt: •: •:::: j i •.i j: •: •: • : j£;: •: •
?3S>
CSX****
-v.v
sv.vtvtv.
HARDYS
WINES
iP
T INTAR A
ivS
V.Vi
s®
!WB«
ssaa
'SV?
- E
*
* >c4>j6Sv!y • • •
Mi
ssKw®
&
CHAMPION RESERVE
WMMSM
KKJMW
31 !
PORT
own bottling
. t HO»AAS hardy t S ot4 f^tV
D ELAJDE . MELBOURNE £ sy®
South AUSTRALIAN WIN
0
AV.V
SS®
r e fluijj
w.Wiv,
saw
Mss
- I
KvV-S#
«1
V.VAWAV
r f v^JX7Ai
WAtWßVftft
-
SKa?*
i®?
Jy*
LT
SHS
s^gfrilF
-2a
OSLMS
HARDY’S TINTARA WINES (Gold Label) are 70 years of age, of fine bouquet and maturity. Extracted from the
rich grapes of the chosen lands of South Australia, there is no better wine in the world s markets. When you call for
Hardy’s Champion Reserve Port you are sure of age, maturity, quality, and the price is within the reach of all and not more
than that of other wines.


305
W"
-vj,' ■
Muffin Dish, extra
heavily silver-plated on
hard white metal, 26/-
The Quality of
“Fx & R” Silver Plate
never varies. Every article fash-
ioned in this famous plate is
perfectly finished and will give
a lifetime of service. How suit-
able then, “Fx & R” silver plate
is for all gift purposes prac-
tical, dainty and everlasting. We
invite critical inspection of many
useful and delightfully-designed
articles in “Fx & R” plate, on
view at our showrooms.
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.,
f
23-25 Hunter Street, Sydney.
PLAIN FIGURES.
CASH ONLY.
Follow the
Chart
TEXACO keeps your engine clean.
BUY FROM THE TEXACO VISIBLE OIL
SERVER BOTTLE, AND ENSURE:
Freedom from carbon
Clean Valves and Spark Plugs
Protection against heat and wear
Economy in consumption
High compression and more
power
TEXACO
CLEAN-CLEAR-GOLDEN
MOTOR OIL
PERSONAL
ITEMS
GLOBE
MEAT EXTRACT
GLOBE BRAND
Outstanding among the new men elected
to Queensland Parliament is T. A. Dunlop,
Mayor of, and now M.L.A. for, Rockhamp-
ton. Known throughout a province as
“Tad,” his Worship is a most unusual char-
acter. He is classed as “a bit of a wowser,”
and has the courage of his convictions. The
Labor Caucus in the City Council turned
against him, and the A.L.P. branch declared
him black, but he still stuck. His challenge
to Farrell was, his culminating gesture.
“Tad” is a railway, servant, seconded from
the department for three years to take the
mayoralty of Rockhampton. It is a full-
time job at £5OO a year.
The other day
when Keith Mur-
doch descended
silently upon Adel-
aide and bought
first the Register
and then the
Advertiser on be-
half of parties un-
known, everybody
in the two offices
was asking every-
body else, “Well,
who are you work-
ing for now?” And
nobody knew; but
the man in the
Advertiser office
who said “If I’m
working for Walter
Crookall I shan’t
be far wrong” made
the answer that
won the popular-
ity prize. Crookall
began his working
life as a small kid
in the Advertiser
office, and for years
past he has been a
good leaning-post
for everybody in
difficulties. Mur-
doch, who had
heard of him, took
WALTER
CROOKALL.
his measurements, and left him behind as a
sort of deputy—with a place on the board
in the chief’s absence.
The demolition of Veteran. Hall at Pros-
pect (N.S.W.) draws attention to the
approaching death of another name which
was once famous in Australia. Veteran Hali
was built a century ago by Lieut. William
Lawson, one of the explorers l who crossed
the Blue Mountains and found the fertile
Western plains. His only male descendant is
William Lawson, now an old man and un-
married, who has lived for many years in
Italy. The two sisters of this member of
the family married respectively Chief Jus-
tice Adrian Knox and General Babington.
Babington was Military Commandant in M.L.
20 years ago and earned a K.C.8., amongst
other decorations, in the World War.
A. G. Harston, the new president of the
R.A.C.V. in Victoria, has helped more pedes-
trians than motorists. During the war he
met every troopship that came into the bay,
and it was under his leadership that Mel-
bourne car-owners gave over 100,000 sick
and hale Diggers transport.
Westralia used to reckon Bill Hedges,
sometime M.H’.R. for Fremantle, its biggest
individual wheatgrower, but nowadays it
accords the honor to W. G. Liebe. From a
farm at Wubin, Liebe harvested 25,000 bags,
averaging 124 bushels to the acre; from an-
other he took off 48,000 bags, averaging 141
bushels. He is cropping an additional 5000
or 0000 acres this year with the idea of filling
100,000 bags. He was a Government con-
tractor before he took to farming.
Sir Frederick Stopford, who has died ia
London, aged 75, was a leading contributor
to the Gallipoli failure. lan Hamilton re-
corded bitterly after the war how Stopford
was wished on to him. The authorities in
London were determined that “dear old
Freddy” should have a job, and they gave
him the Ninth Corps. His work at Suvla
Bay on August 7 and 8, 1915, was a master-
piece of inaction. It enabled the Turks to
reach high ground and stay there, with fatal
results to, amongst others, the Anzacs. “Dear
old Freddy” was sent back to London, where
he was rewai’ded with a seat on the War
Pensions Committee and a K. 0.8. He was
a brother of the Earl of Courtown and a
favorite at Court.
W. T. Appleton, chairman and managing
director of Huddart Parker’s, president of
the Australasian Steamship Owners’ Asso-
ciation, and head of eight other shipping and
colliery concerns, celebrated his seventieth
birthday the other day. Born at Leeds, in
Yorkshire, he has spent threescore years in
Vic.; his son, a Victorian, fell at Pozieres.
The old man has no use for the Arbitration
Court, and roasts the tendency to buy fancy
motor-cars and wireless sets regardless of
cost of maintenance and size of income.
He has worked hard since boyhood, and
isn’t talking about retiring.
J. R. O. Harris, of Sydney Grammar
School, changes over on June 1 to the head-
ship of Hutchins School, H'obart; C. C.
Thorold ; who has held the Hutchins job for
a generation, goes to Barker College
(N.S.W.). Harris thus takes the overlord-
ship of the school he attended over 30 years
ago when his parson dad wielded the sceptre.
He has been on the Sydney Grammar staff
since 1904, but was granted leave for sterner
work, during which he was major in the
Third Batt., A.I.F. He was “mentioned” for
services at Pozieres.
Charlie Gale, senior clerk of the Premier’s
office, Melbourne, is helping the McPhersons,
as he helped the Hogans, to handle the unem-
ployment trouble. He is the kind of man
whom Governments turn to in emergencies.
After the Black Sunday bush-fires in 1926
Gale was pressed into service ; he had most
to do with the distribution of the £184,000
subscribed by the public and the other thou-
sands provided by the State for restoration
work. A Digger for three or four years, he
came back with a lieutenancy and the M.C.
and resumed his job in the Education Depart-
ment. Speacock persuaded the young man
to transfer to the Premier’s office, but pro-
motion commensurate with the important
work he has been called upon to undertake
is a long time coming.
A. H. Garnsey has been named City Engi-
neer of Sydney—a job City Commissioner
Morton was alleged by detractors to .have
marked out for himself. Garnsey has worked
under two City Engineers, Gordon and Coul-
son ; he has also served in the Public Works,
Water Conservation and War Service Homes
departments and (for three years) in the
A.I.F. The capable young man is to get
£l5OO this year and £1750 p.a. thereafter.
Jonas Molesworth Stawell, who handed in
his checks at Perth when on bis way back
from a trip to Europe, was the eldest son
of William Foster Stawell, formerly C.J. of
Vic.; he used to be assistant constructional
engineer of N.S.W. railways. His dad acted
as Administrator during Governor Bowen’s
absence—from January, 1875, to January,
1876.
Prof. J. B. Brigden, who gave up the
Chair of Economics at Tas. Uni. to enter
the service of the Oversea Shipping Associa-
tion at Sydney, is to take care of that con-
cern’s interests in the matter of frieght rates,
discussed at the recent conference. As A.I.F.
Memorial scholar he went to Oxford, quit-
ting it with his B.A. degree and a diploma in
Economics and Political Science. A mem-
ber of the Queensland Economic Commission
on the Basic Wage, he subjected A. B. Pid-
dington’s calculations to such searching criti-
cism that the Labor Government decided to
have nothing to do with “Piddo’s” child-
endowment scheme, subsequently unloaded on
N. S. Wales. Maldon (Vic.) claims Brig-
den as a son ; he is just on 42.
Ramsay MacDonald is no stranger to Aus-
tralia. He was here in 1906. While in
Melb. he took part in the celebration of the
jubilee of Vic. Parliament under responsible
government. He was given a seat on the
benches of the Assembly (then located at
the Exhibition), along with ex-members of
that House and Leg. Councillors. Bent was
Premier and Frank Madden Speaker, and it
was a great day.
Goldmining on Mt. Dromedary, N.S.W.
South Coast, petered out when Adolph Saun-
ders went west. Thirty years ago, when the Mt.
Dromedary co. ceased operations on the east
of the hill, Saunders bought some of the
plant and set out to strike the reef from
the southern side. Without mate or neigh-
bor he stuck to his tremendous task all
those years, tunnelling, splitting his timbers,
timbering up and tunnelling again. Nobody
seems to have been sufficiently interested in
the hermit miner to discover whether he
ever crossed the reef in mid-mountain. But
someone recently found him lying stark and
stiff in the bush beside his splitting-maul and
wedges.
CAPTAIN HOLDEN, who found the
Southern Cross.
Andre Naturel is in Sydney supervising
the building of a 90-ton auxiliary boat for
the family plantations in the New Hebrides,
at which many Australians have been hos-
pitably treated. Andre set out 10 years
back to tame the three wildest islands in the
group, Malicolo, Ambhrim and Aoba; and
he has imbued the coastal people, at least,
with a spirit of trade and barter which is
bringing results. Australia benefits from
the activities of the gallant and generous
family; it does a useful trade with the New
Hebrides.
Archbishop Francis Mary Redwood, of
Maoriland, was 90 last month. Cardinal
Manning (then an archbishop) consecrated
him bishop in the Church of St. Anne at
Spitalfields, London, on St. Patrick’s Day,
1874, and Bishop Luck, of Auckland, con-
ferred the pallium on him in 1887. Dr. Red-
wood can still play his beloved Strad., but
nowadays Coadjutor-Archbishop O’Shea re-
lieves him of the heavy work of the arch-
diocese.
Billy Hulse, who has been selected by
Labor to oppose Vic. Premier McPherson at
Hawthorn, will be the most formidable oppo-
nent the latter had met since he won in
1913. Apart from politics, Hulse is popular
with footballers, cricketers and sporting folk
generally, and while he was at the tourist
bureau in Melbourne he made legions of
friends. And he has a good platform style.
Yet with all these advantages he cannot hope
to do more than reduce, perhaps appreciably,
the 3055 majority McPherson scored against
Laborite Cummins on April 9, 1927.
There is significance in the opening by
Lloyd George of the Evening World build-
ing—the £300,000 home of the new New-
castle paper. Lord Rothermere, who con-
trols Northcliffe Newspapers, Ltd. (capital
£5,500,000), has been throwing the whole
weight of his press behind Lloyd George for
the past year, and he never misses an oppor-
tunity to display his regard for the War Pre-
mier. Lloyd George unveiled that. Rother-
mere is a Tory, but he has a personal griev-
ance against Baldwin.
lan A. Henning, who carried off Sydney
Uni.’s French travelling scholarship in 1926,
is returning to join the modern-languages
staff of his Alma Mater. Henning went to the
Uni. from Sydney High School; he wrote
Red Page articles for The Bulletin, lec-
tured on languages to radio fanciers, helped
with stage productions of the French section
of the S.U.D.S., and graduated with first-
class honors. Still in the middle twenties, he
is a Doctor of Letters of Paris Uni.: a
thesis upon the influence of Madame de Stael
on the literature of France, Germany and
England clinched the business.
Dr. J. A Leach, assistant-chief inspector
of Vic. primary schools, who specialises in
nature study, is assisting to produce a film
depicting the ways of the kookaburra. It
ought to he a talkie. Leach is preparing for
another sort of talkie —a conference in Hol-
land. He is 59 and looks younger.
The ashes of John Stewart Bruce, trader
and Government Official at Murray Island,
Torres Strait, for upwards of 40 years, have
been borne from Sydney in a bronze urn—
it once figured in William Bede Dailey’s col-
lection of antiques—to the island that he
loved so well, and where he guided hundreds
of Queensland’s chocolate-tinted citizens on
the right road so successfully that theyynow
rank amongst the foremost people in the
Strait. A memorial will be erected. The
old Scotchman was one of the Empire-
builders ; although his domain was limited,
his influence extends far beyond the strait.
It will always be regretted that he destroyed
all his carefully-compiled diaries, containing
material relating to native habits and cus-
toms which no other white man had or
is ever likely to have.
Dr. A. L. Kenny, upon whom Pius XI. has
bestowed the Grand Cross of St. Gregory
the Great, is a Collins-street surgeon, special-
ising as an oculist. He was a foundation
student when Xavier Col., Kew, was estab-
lished 51 years ago, and has acted as secre-
tary to Australasian Catholic congresses.
He is the first Australian to receive the grand
cross of the order.
Jimmy Thorn, the new president of the
M.L. Labor party, has earned his honorary
job. Son of a Christchurch butcher, he
haunted public libraries in between working
for his living, as every 13-year-old was ex-
pected to do in the ’nineties. He arrived at
manhood just near the end of the Seddon
regime, and stood in the Labor interest for
South Christchurch. Defeated but not dis-
heartened, he organised the farm laborers in
his province of Canterbury, worked his pas-
sage to England, got a footing in the Labor
movement there, graduated as a writer and
a speaker, and returned to the Shivery Isles.
For the last seven or eight years he has been
editor of the N. Z. Worker.
Edward John Dunn, of Kew (Melbourne),
Director of Geological Survey in Victoria in
1904-12, is still hale and hearty in his 85th
year. Born at Bristol (Eng.), he was geo-
logically trained by Prof. Ulrich, and in 1871
described the occurrence of diamonds at Kim-
berley. For his scientific services in S.
Africa and Australia he was awarded the
Murchison medal by the Geological Society
of London in 1905. He has just had pub-
lished by Griffins, the famous London issuers
of technical books, a volume on “Geology
of Gold.”
Dr. G. R. Weigall, of Melbourne, got
solne unexpected practice recently. He was
returning from a 12-months’ post-graduate
course in Fogland when the third officer of
the Port Nicholson fell dangerously ill with
appendicitis. The captain’s cabin was rigged
up as an operating-theatre, the chief engi-
neer applied the anaesthetic, and while the
Indian Ocean in one of its worst moods
threw everybody about, the troublesome
organ was successfully removed.
Tom ’Enley, prominent in the N.S.W. coal
controversy, made heaps of money in the
building trade by anticipating and helping
on the growth of Sydney suburbs like Con-
cord, Five Dock and Drummoyne. A repu-
tation for being a good boss and a fair land-
lord, and for telling the truth (as he sees it)
and shaming the
Devil, assisted him
to get into public
life and stay there
in spite of his
Tory views; his
thumping majori-
ties are the envy of
the good-as-Labor
type of National-
ist, always crawl-
ing for votes.
’Enley is a Wilt-
shireman, and is
rising 70.
W. A. GIBSON,
O.B.E., head serang
of Union Theatres,
one of the two big
moving-picture
combinations.
It is responsible
for the circuit of
new “State”
theatres.
An out-of-the way item in Australian
research is Professor Baldwin Spencer’s
sojourn in Tierra del Fuego, the joint flicked
off the tail of South America, where a few
specimens of humanity still live in the pal-
eolithic epoch. Spencer engaged in the
enterprise at the instigation of J. G. Frazer,
author of “The Golden Bough,” that stand-
ard work on comparative religion. As the
only line running to the region does not carry
passengers the Australian scientist signed
on as purser.
“The Quartermaster,” the £5OO First
Prize Novel, with superb illustrations by
Norman Lindsay, will begin publication
in next week’s “Bulletin.”
“DOWN TO THE SEA.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Many’s the moonlight night I tryst
With the wind and the crumpled wave
Spreading white fans on the sands, clean-
kissed,
And crooning a wistful stave,
Till dawn climbs out of the green mist
And the last star’s grave.
Many’s the morning bright I wait,
Seaward looking again
To the forelands brown and the blue gate
Of the waters between the twain,
Till the night drifts in from the green Strait
In a drizzle of grey rain.
Wkat am I waiting. The brown wreath
From a lone tramp’s smoke-stack high?
The fisher boats shaking their sails beneath?
A mailboat gliding by,
Turning up channel with a bone in her teeth
Under a mackerel sky?
Nothing I’m waiting, no mortal ship
Under the wide sky’s dome;
’Tis just that my dreams must backward slip
(Since forward they may not roam)
To a troopship grey in the green Rip
And a lad that comes not home.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


Poverty
Point
THE BOSS.
“The timber strike, which has been organised on the lines approved by the Red Internationale, has been marked by almost daily outrages.... The coal-trade dispute
remains unsettled. The latest suggestion is that the miners snail boycott the Royal Commission appointed to inquire into it.
CONSTABLE: “Here, what’s all this row about? Who’s the boss here?”
PRIMINISTERIO: “P-p-please, I-I-I am.”
“Rpokeshave”: Any visitor to Melbourne
who seeks the Green Room Club in. Bourke-
street expecting to breathe the atmosphere
of greasepaint and hear the buskined giants
of former days reminisce in deep, sad accents
over an eleemosynary pintpot will be dis-
appointed. Actors —real actors, m’boy—are
conspicuous by their absence. The conver-
sation of one group of habitues may suggest
a meeting of Rotary: that of another a
conference of electrical engineers. The
Green Room is mainly populated by persons
interested in the talkie industry and ordi-
nary citizens interested in nothing in par-
ticular.
“Cauboy”: The fact that the Melbourne
and Sydney Tivolis are installing talkie
apparatus is being joyfully hailed, in movie
circles as another couple of nails in the
coffin of legit. There is nothing significant
in the move. The vaudeville houses have
long been, in the habit of screening short
newsreels, and it is merely common gumption
that has induced them to add the charms
of the megaphone voice to the -silent pictures
of potentates, prelates and politicians.
“The Rumpus” : Brown had been a regu-
lar goer to the pictures because his wife
liked them. As soon as the talkies turned up
Mrs. Brown was mad to go, and complaisant
hubby went with her. Half-way through she
turned fiercely on him for fidgeting and
making exasperating noises. “What’s the
matter with you?” she hissed. “This new-
fangled idea of pictures,” he grumbled; “with
all this noise a bloke can’t get a bit of
sleep.”
“F.S.” : A male British songbird has just
blown through Melbourne and left _ a con-
troversy raging about the necessity for
musicians to adopt foreign names if they
want to get anywhere in their profession.
He himself has changed from Michael Scott
to Michele Sentini. The assumption is that
critics and music-lovers don’t know good
music when they hear it. There is not a
word of truth in the notion. As an ex-
ample, four years ago a young man with a
mop of lawless hair and other indications of
aesthetic temperament erupted at Melbourne
Playhouse. His name was a Russo-Polish jaw-
breaker. Plis publicity agent filled the papers
with stories of his greatness. To all appear-
ance he was a famous European virtuoso,
and the propaganda actually succeeded in
filling the theatre for the opening evening.
It took the audience exactly five minutes to
discover that musically he was bogus. Next
day all the critics said so. He gave two
more concerts to empty houses and vanished
into oblivion. Later it filtered through that
he was an obscure Australian ivory-thumper
whose real name was no more foreign than
Bill Smithers. The fancy nomenclature
hadn’t helped him.
“Ex-Deadhead”: Recent mention of the
pricelessness of Eve Grey’s legs sets me won-
dering (1) whether it is the Eve I helped to
discover ; (2) whether Eve has the same
legs as she had then; and (3) if they are,
the original legs which are the subject of the
cabled adulation or a new set obtained re-
cently. During discovery-days we saw only
Eve’s pretty face, looking no lower. The
appearance in “Bulldog Drummond” of the
whole Eve gave us a bit of a shock, for the
lass of the lovely features absolutely
“gangled” as far as her seemingly ill-attached
understandings were concerned. They were
the little lady’s weak point. I for one am
glad to learn she has been so happily recon-
structed.
“H.”: Westralia’s centenary celebrations
will include a big musical festival, to be
held in Perth, commencing on September 30.
The competitions include a. championship
choral contest, with a first prize of £lOO, pro-
vided one of the Eastern States sends a choir
along or not less than five State choirs gather
in song. The choirs must range between 35
and 50 voices. There will also be a contest
for church choirs of not more than 30 voices,
with a £4O first prize if there are five com-
peting choirs, and a cup. Excursion rail-
way fares operate from Melbourne, Sydney
and Adelaide, commencing on September 5,
and available for 42 days.
“L.H.P.”: Wirths’ circus, now 50 years
old, has left Australia only once —in the
’nineties, to tour South Africa, Argentine,
Brazil and the U.K. The Wirths were
glad to get back. In South Africa they
started with a fire during one of the per-
formances and ended in being nearly caught
in the Boer War. They sent ponies to
Kruger when at Pretoria, but the old chap
would not come. His nephew, Tchard Kruger,
did, and later was useful in preventing
the Boers from seizing the circus horses for
war purposes. Ignoring the war cloud, the
show went north, until Mrs. Geo. Wirtli, left
behind at Kimberley, wired that the disturb-
ance was imminent. The circus was on the
last train out of Kimberley; a few minutes
after it had crossed the Modder River the
bridge was blown up.
“Caesar’s Ghost” : An “Old Vic.” in Syd-
ney is promised by Francis Jackson, w-ho
proposes an amateur stock company with
professional stiffening to produce Shakspeare
and all the other classical playwrights, using
the Conservatorium as h.q. From his experi-
ences in smaller Shakspearean ventures Jack-
son ought to have some idea of the trouble
he is going to bring upon his head; knowing
that, he deserves the V.C. for persisting.
Of course, the scheme merits encouragement.
“Hamfat”: At the Bournemouth musical
festival in April John Gough made a hit
with “The Wallaby Track,” an attempt, to
express “a pastoral idiom for the Australian
soil.” Gough, only 25, is a Tasmanian who,
dodging the family intention to make a
lawyer of him, won an early crust on a pro-
vincial newspaper, went to the Melbourne
Uni. to study under Professor Laver, and
then existed by theatrical orchestra work
before going to Paris, where he made a
living as a picture-actor while perfecting his
musical knowledge. He has lately attracted
attention by other w T ork, but “The Wallaby
Track” is his most important achievement
to date. His first musical steps he learnt on
the ’cello, which he taught himself.
“Cauboy”: Most Melburnians know only
jthe fronts of their theatres ; but the backs
are interesting. The back yards of the Palace
and the Princess adjoin, and actors have
sometimes left one part and one audience to
appear in another part and before another
audience almost without taking a breather.
The dainty creatures who appear on the
boards at the Royal have to thread their way
through Chinatown, where Celestial , bags of
bones drowse opium dreams away in door-
ways and there are three Buddfucius temples.
The State Theatre backs on to the Austra-
lian Church, and the prayers of Dr. Archi-
bald Strong often get inextricably entangled
with the strains of “Lulu Baby/’ The
approach to the Auditorium stage-door is by
Lush-lane, well named considering that Pad-
erewski, Kreisler, Grainger, Friedman, Back-
haus, Melba, Dal Monte and a score of other
world-famous entertainers have trod it. I
once saw a murder at a stage-door in Mel-
bourne. The assassin, carrying the victim’s
struggling body in his arms, rushed out into
the lane and, laying it on the ground, pressed
over the horrified face a handkerchief soaked
in chloroform. Then he stood up, leaned
against the wall and broke into heart-rending
sobs. He was a dog-trainer whose favorite
animal had broken its backbone.
“F.S.”: Looking over veteran Blamire
Young’s latest show in Melbourne, I could
not help wondering why the Firm has never
put Australia’s greatest decorative artist
to theatrical use. In all the years I have
surveyed the Australian stage I have seen
no essential changes in the character of the
scenery. The Colemans may be better
painters than their predecessors, but they
commit the same mistake of trying to make
the painted background for the unreal emo-
tions of p. musical comedy as like the real
world as possible. Blamire -Young, with
his glowing fancy and his feeling for opulent
atmosphere, 'could provide designs for the
scene-painters to work on that would place
the settings for a grand opera season on as
high an artistic level as Dal Monte’s lyric
soprano.
“C. 8.”: A cabaret is to be attached to the
new transpontine theatre which the Mar-
low-Rolls syndicate is building in Mel-
bourne. The idea is to encourage people to
stay behind and partake of supper. If it is
to succeed Melburnians will have. to be
broken of an ingrained habit of rushing for
trains and trains immediately the show is
over. The average Yarraite has all the pas-
sion for night-life of a sparrow. A night
club occasionally visited by subs, on duty at
the near-by newspaper offices exists, and
world-renowned actors have been known to
patronise it; but after midnight it has the
gaiety of a coroner’s inquest on an anony-
mous suicide.
“C. 8.”: The versatility of actors? Bert
Bailey, hitherto famous for his portrayals
of the Australian variety of Dad, is to play
the American popper of “The Patsy” in the
new touring co. which the Firm is organis-
ing in conjunction with Bailey and Grant.
“Cine Ma”: Another burden has been
placed on the shoulders of the overweighted
Melbourne copper. Chief-Sec. Argyle has
ordered him to see that the Quota Act is
strictly observed in the theatres. He will
have his job cut out, especially as it has
never been decided whether the 1000 feet
of British or Australian film must be shown
at all sessions of a continuous show or once
only.
LEGS AND THE WOMAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The legs of Eve Grey, the- English actress, have
been disposed of for picture purposes to a Parisian
hosiery firm, which is using them in a world-wide
advertising campaign.’’
In Eden’s green and gold, where earth’s first
madam
Tripped lightly hither and thither, I be-
lieve
These properties were held by none but
Adam—
Right, title, interest and all, he had ’em—
The legs of Eve.
Those primal pegs demanded no adorning.
With silk unspun, what such could they
receive?
Just as they were ’tis like they set him
scorning
Counter-attractions in the wings of Morning,
The legs of Eve.
No camera fiend could set them in perspec-
tive ;
Only the Serpent’s beady eyes, I grieve
To think, surveyed with interest reflective
That daintily symmetrical objective,
The legs of Eve.
.ZEons our earth’s been on its axis rocking;
What now the destiny that they achieve?
No moral’s in it, laudable or shocking—
They’re simply sold to sell a Paris stocking,
The legs of Eve.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


tl
Si
SMITH &
JULIUS
STUDIOS
OUR. FAITH IN YOUR. JUDGMENT IS ABSOLUTE
The tonal perfection and general beauty of the Improved ‘ Five'Three’
Beale Player are selfapparent. We invite you to judge also its inner merits .
YV7E believe you have a
W sure instinct of discrim-
ination, an inherent faculty
for judgment. We believe you
cannot fail to
recognise sheer
quality, in ma-
terial, workman-
ship, or perform-
ance, the moment
you encounter it.
So strongly do we
believe this that
we have provided
a fully equipped
labor atory at
our Showrooms,
where conclusive tests may be
applied to Beale instruments,
A range of Beale players,
dismantled, awaits your
In comparing other
instruments with
the Improved ‘Five-
Three’ Beale, ONLY
COMPARE INSTRU-
MENTS IN THE HIGH-
EST-PRICED CLASS.
The ‘Five-Three’ was
designed to compete
with this class, and
this only, notwith'
standing the low
price Sor which it is
sold.
examination. You are invited
to call, to test, and in detail
to judge for yourself their
quality. Because we believe
you fully com-
petent to do this
we will welcome,
as we respect,
your judgment.
There could
surely be no more
convincing proof
of our confidence
both in your
discrimination
and in the in-
herent quality
of the Beale. Full descriptive
literature will be sent
post free to any address.
Terms are the easiest possible.
The Improved
‘Five-Three’ Beale
Player at the
old price:
£ 205
shows a saving of
anything up
to £7O
BEALE 6 COMPANY
Showrooms:
•340 George Street, Sydney
LIMITED
Head Office and Factories 7
41-47 Trafalgar St., Annandafe,
BRANCHES New South Wales: Newcastle, Wollongong, Lismore, Bathurst, Tamworth, and Maples at
Wagga and Albury. Victoria: Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs. 'Tasmania: Maples, Hobart and Launceston-
South Australia: Savery’s Pianos Limited, Adelaide. Western Australia: Thomson’s Limited. Queensland:
G. J. Grice Limited, Brisbane, Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton, Macnay, Townsville, and Cairns.
29-Fp-28


v:
aSs\
i
“The Station”
Shirt—To
Measure
A soft Fabric —but
tough wearing.
Worn, tested and
approved by the
“Man out back.”
It’s fadeless —washing only improves
our word for it —it’s good—for Work
Wear when in town.
Shades of Blue and Officers’ Khaki.
Patterns and Measurement Forms.
it. Take
or Night
Send for
Collar and
Pocket Shirt
(one pocket)
14/6
Military style
(as illustrated)
2 pockets and
Flaps
15/6
MADE TO YOUR MEASURE.
ROTHWELLS OUTFITTING
-^LIMITED-^
EDWARD STREET c- t t , BRISBANE
21.
EARN ALL YOU CAN—
SAVE ALL YOU CAN—GIVE ALL YOU CAN
Such was the good advice of John Wesley. You are, of course, entitled
to earn all you can, and no doubt are bending all your energies in that
direction.
Nevertheless, what you save will, in the long run, probably count for
more than what you earn.
Use the easy, saving plan. Open a Commonwealth Savings Account,
and be faithful to it, for the sake of your future needs and that you
may be able to give when it is your duty to give.
(flbminonwcaltb Savinas JBank of Hustralta
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed (or the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Gable and Telegraphic Address:
"Uaherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Heb Majesty's “The Desert Song ’
Criterion’ “Pigs”
Royal Pavlova
Palace “No. 17”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Town* Hall (com. Saturday) Brailowsky
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “The Student Prince”
Royal (com. Saturday) .. “The Five-o’clock Girl”
New Comedy “Young Woodley”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt’s ... Moving Pictures
An outstanding semi-theatrical . event in
Sydney last week was that staged in the all-
but-completed State Theatre- —the 300-odd
pictures selected from entries attracted by
the Union Theatres Art Competition prize-
money. Having seen the worst of them. The
Bulletin shuddered to think what the 2000-
odd said to have been rejected must have
been like. . ,
It was, however, not the of
which there were really few, that sent The
Bulletin away in search of a double-headed
coffee. It was the meaninglessness of all but
a couple of dozen. The workmanship all
round is better, the exhibits more varied and
interesting than most similar shows in the
Harbor town. Yet the general impression
gathered is of a pretty complete failure of
artists to use their brains. The text
can be used to embrace all mixed art shows.
There is evidence in them all of some exer-
tion in the searching out of topics, but hav-
ing found these, the little grey matter seems
to face the rest of the job in a nerveless
and exhausted condition. The painting,
much more often than not, is thoroughly
competent. That is what the majority of
our brush-wielders in general reveal them-
selves as J — painters. The artistic faculty is
absent. The dramatic sense is absent. There
is no feeling. They choose topics ranging
from plucking poultry to dragon-slaying, and
contrive to express nothing whatever. They
copy' ; they do not interpret. They do not
re-create; at best, they photograph. There
is no movement, no action, no virility, no
objective. It is all stagnation. Australia
is overrun with such —competent draughtsmen,
competent color-mixers, competent designers;
and all as undramatic, as unimaginative, as
non-interpretive as so many swamp pools.
That is an impfession of artists in general.
Of the State Theatre exhibits, the winner of
the 300-guineas first prize, “Interlude,” by
Charles Wheeler, is the best and wholly
worthy of such a prize. It has a minimum
of color, but it has imagination, attempt
LILIAN CRISP, the Westralian who is making good in the
principal role oj “The Student Prince at Melbourne His
Majesty’s.
at achievement. A nude woman is lying on
a brown-tinted couch, with draped .back-
ground of the same coloring; a vividly-
striped material hanging down under the
feet to balance the coloring about the bowl
of goldfish into which she is gazing. It is
the sort of thing that Wheeler paints well;
in fact, he often paints the same picture.
The winner of the second prize, 150
guineas, is “Woman,” by Mary Edwards, a
large painting. John D. Moore’s “Bronte,”
a 100-guinea prize-winner, is overloaded with
green, anti climbs the canvas. He does better
in water-color. Two other 100-guinea prizes
went to Thea Proctor, for one of her
exquisite fan designs, and to James R. Jack'
son, for “Pont Brescon Martigues (France).'
Jackson has better work in the show, but the
Pont piece is thoughtful and complete. “IS. ar-
row Neck,, Ivatoomba,” by Howard Ashton,
is the least interesting of the 50-guinea
prize-winners. Careful and competent paint-
ing has been wasted on a dull topic. “Woe
to the Vanquished,” by Raymond Lindsay,
another 50-guinea winner, is good, but even
better for the promise than for itself. Pro-
phecy is always risky, but here are glimpses
of the young Norman Lindsay before he had
brought his dramatic sense to the pinnacle
where it stands, almost aloof, to-day. The
vanquished are being led across the desert
in chains, with victors about them and one
perched on a draped camel at the back. A
defect is that they have all halted in their
stride so as not to inconvenience the artist.
The color and grouping are excellent. “After
the Matinee,” by William Dobell, another
50-guinea piece, depicts a ballet-girl looking
at a held bunch of roses with as much
interest as she would take in so many carrot-
tops, and another girl looking back and down
with a like wealth of expression. The other
50-guinea winner is a true slice of life, a
living bush landscape by John Rowell.
The competition has done a useful service.
It has encouraged a few hundred artists to
do their best has rewarded the effort with
£lOOO, has brought to light several worth-
while paintings, has helped some young and
striving painters a rung or two up, and has
given Art a generous helping of publicity.
* # *
Sydney’s latest theatre, the rehabilitated
Adyar Hall, in Bligh-street, hereinafter called
the Savoy, did not have an auspicious
opening on Saturday night. Rain fell in.
large numbers, and the House-full sign re-
mained locked up in the strong-room. lor
their theatre’s sake the promoters deserved
a better fate. It is a comfortable little
house, capable of holding <OO, and tastefully
decorated in blue, rose and gold, with panels
of tapestry. A perfect view can be had
from any part, and, though the place has
been called a “theatre intimate,the desig-
nation is not, as it generally is, inspired by
the presence of cretonne-covered butter-boxes
and crude drawings on distempered walls.
This cosiness, incidentally, suggests yet
another reason for the wholesale popularity
of the big modern picture theatres. In them
everything is done for the audience except
peeling the peanuts. The surroundings, it
often blatant, are
never drab. The
seats do not creak
with age. There is
an air of newness
and cleanliness.
And there are no
posts. The Savoy
has all these
merits, minus bla-
tancy; and it has,
too, an advantage
over the hole-in-a-
corner amateur
places, because it
i s just roomy
enough to permit
the creation of an
illusory new world,
and the acting out
of a piece of the
life of that world,
and that is all the
reality the theatre
can ever hope for.
It is a pity, in
the circumstances,
that the Savoyists
should be content
with purveying
such fare as Avery
Hopwood’s “T h e
Alarm Cffock.” The
piece is all right as
far as it goes—
shopworn dialogue
that yet has some
sparkle, amusing
situations and all
the customary
speed of farce. But
it is like a hundred
of its kind, and the
kind is that which
commercial houses
throughout Austra-
lia insist upon pre-
senting to the _ ex-
clusion and extinc-
tion of drama. It is the story of a bachelor
with a taste for nocturnal rambling and
chorus girls. He is loved from afar by a
girl who, when he gets a mild attack of
rheumatism, induces his doctor to exaggerate
the seriousness of the complaint and pre-
scribe rest. To help the scheme out, others
expected to have a reforming influence are
introduced, only to be themselves captured
bv the night life. The farce provides oppor-
tunity for convincing and satisfying acting
bv Moilv Raynor, Marie La Varre. I hoebe
Martyn, Zara Clinton, John Warwick,
Andrew Higginson and Claude Caiter. tak-
ing it all through, it is as jolly and light-
hearted a show as is on offer at the moment
in Sydney. * * *
For Fritz Hart’s second popular symphony
concert in Melbourne approximately 3000
people crushed into
the Town Hall
seats or stood
around the walls,
while hundreds
gnashed their
teeth outside.
What a fine pro-
gramme it was!
Prelude and Prize
Song from Die
Meistersingers, aria
from Turandot
( vocalist, the mel-
low Norman H.
Christensen), an
overture by Ham-
ish McCunn, a
Liszt concerto and
Beethoven’s Sixth.
The last-named is
the loveliest piece
of natural scenery
imaginable, and as
a landscape painter
or director of land-
scape painters.
Prof. Hart has no-
thing to reproach
himself with. The
violins, ’cellos,
oboes, etc., dipped
their brushes in
the appropriate
colors, so to speak,
and laid them on
with the firmest,
yet subtlest pos-
sible touch. The
Storm w t a s a
meteor ological
phenomenon which
even a Hottentot
could have under-
stood. Hart and
his anonymous
financial backers
will continue to
meet the alleged
menace of the
talkies with a third concert at which that
talented youngster Nancy W eir Will be solo
" i!miat - » * *
Morini’s playing of the Cesar Franck
sonata was the event of last weeks pro-
gramme. The phrasing was exquisite. _ Ihe
piece had never been interpreted quite m
Morini’s way before in Melbourne broad
and almost masculinely strong.
# # *
Dorothy Helmrich, back after a few years
in Europe and America, opened a season
under the Carroll management at Sydney
Conservatorium last Wednesday. A delight-
ful voice of great range was supplemented
by imagination and personality, and these
were displayed impressively in tlie classical
numbers in which the singer lias earned her
reputation. She was at her highest in the
lovely group of Schubert liedcr, but the treat-
ment of the Early-English songs and the
French-Italian group was scarcely less
charming. On Saturday night Miss Helm-
rich sang delightfully a Brahms group of
four liedcr, a Russian group and modern
English songs. Even more noticeably than
on the first night, she captured her audience
with her powers of representing the spirit
as well as clearly enunciating the words of
her songs. On a plane with her own artistic
interpretations was the accompanying of
Vern Barnett, a pianist with an uncommonly
fine sense of proportion.
* * #
A fresh outburst of talking theatres hit
Melbourne in the pocket last week; the
remodelled Majestic and the new Plaza
opened their mighty doors. The Plaza is
dedicated to the presentation of the old
Ideals of the Great Nation from which its
picturesque Architecture has been Borrowed,
and has very comfortable seats. It is also
dedicated to World-famous Producers who are
ever Striving Onward and Upward, and the
seats are all on. the one floor. It is liketvise
devoted to the Great Motion Picture Stars,
ever idealised by an eager, loving Public, and
its ventilation system is beyond reproach.
It is also dedicated to the Writers who
Create, and its usherettes have been selected
for their beauty by a Person, with a Perspi-
cacious Eye.
Jf the writer has mixed material considera-
tions with spiritual ones, the Plaza supplies
the excuse. It is the most easeful and luxuri-
ous he has seen. It is soberly rich in deco-
ration of the Spanish style, and suggests a
millionaire with limitless resources, includ-
ing an architect of taste. The fact that it
is in the cellar or basement of the Regent
is cunningly concealed by windows through
which the sky appears to shine.
With the opening of these two theatres,
simultaneously with the closing of more than
one Bourke-street house, Melbourne’s movie
magnates will presumably commence mark-
ing time and taking stock. Nobody quite
knows which way the cat will jump, or even
if there is enough of the feline tq.>go round.
It may continue to jump in. the direction
of the talkies if the talkies continue to 1m-
MARIE LA VARRE, who helped “The Alarm Clock” to wake a
new Sydney theatre on Saturday.
prove, but judging by some recent exhibits,
the demand for good talkies is exceeding the
supply. The opening programme at the
Plaza, which is planned for long runs, was
somewhat lugubrious, except for the amusing
“Alias Jimmie Valentine.” But possibly the
splendor of the foyer and the majesty of the
auditorium led one to expect too much from
the screen.
* * *
“The Five-o’clock Girl,” having its first
Australian run at Adelaide Royal, is a
comedy of youth, of a gay New York world
where nobody is over 25 or has any relatives.
Also, it is the now usual ideal of the Ameri-
can “woiking-goil.”
Patricia, of the dry-cleanery, has formed
the pleasant habit of ringing up a fashionable
stranger, Gerry, for a chat at 5 p.m. daily;
and her low-comedy friend Susan is fasci-
nated by a dashing man-about-town, Hud-
gins, who, as a fact, is Gerry’s valet. Y hen
Gerry presses Pat for a personal meeting
at a supper club things are complicated by
a jealous Cora, who wants to retain him, and
by her emerald necklace, purloined by Hud-
gins, given to Susan, and found on Pats
neck; but the tide sweeps the four princi-
pals irresistibly on to the final Door of the
Church scene.
This idyll flits about through 13 scenes.
Helen Patterson, the newcomer, suggests, a
radiant and youthful Florence Young, with
an American accent and a fair voice, but
a dancer above all. Valentine is a suffi-
ciently polished and fascinating hero. The
comedy side is very strong, Frith making a
genial reappearance, popular as ever, and
with less effort than of old. Tui Black, the
little M.L. recruit, makes an immediate suc-
cess—a tiny creature with a strong comic
sense. Kelleway and Leo Franklyn struggle
cleverly with some deplorable material, while
scenes are being changed; by this time, it is
hoped, they have found some better jokes, and
have cut out some of the falling-down stuff
and the silly American burlesque of the
Prince of Wales. Winnie Tate contributes
some good dances, and Frank Leighton, in
a small “straight” part, with the jealous
Mary Rigby, makes one want to see more
of him.
* * ¥
A turn that is filling Melbourne Tivoli is
Dora Maughn, modestly introduced as the
Girl Who Shocked the Old Smoke. Having
no illusions about her voice, Dora talks most
of her songs, and there is no reason in the
world why she shouldn’t talk them all.
The Sydney house is doing good business
with tenor Allan Priora, and has Muriel
Starr in a one-act thriller as its other trump.


INSURE WITH THE
Mercantile Mutual
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Company—
Established 1878.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
Agencies in all Suburban and Country Centres.
Alexander Hamilton Institute
XI CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY, n.s.w.
Even well-informed people are often amazed to learn that
the average age of men enrolled in the Alexander Hamil-
ton Institute is 37 at the time of enrolment; that 60% are
owners or officers of businesses; that 25% are department
heads and that 15% are clerks and assistants.
The most famous
little book on
business
ever written.
We will gladly
send you a
complimentary
L opy.
d
Name
Business Address
Position Bi
Modern
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Pisk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etr
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Anthony Hordern and Sons (Sydney)
Dividends
Pref. To Re-
Feb., Profit. 74 p.e. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1927. .150,320 39,221 8 p.c. = 69,589 41,510 20,283
Nominal
Reserves.
1928. .196,947 56,250 8 „ ~100,000 40,697 20,414
1929..200,404 56,250 8 „ ~100,000 44,154 64,568
Very satisfactory progress has been made
during the three years since the co. took
over the big business built up during the
past century. The price paid was £2,900,000,
and preliminary exes., which the “Wild Oat”
has not treated as an asset, ran away with
£61,793. The public was asked for £2,000,000
of share capital—£7so,ooo 7i p.c. cum. prefs.
and £1,250,000 ords—all of which was
quickly supplied, and the vendors took a
round million of 20-year 7 p.c. first-mortgage
debentures. The co. has the right to redeem
the whole or any part of these after 10
years, but at present they are very helpful
to the ordinaries. Nearly three-fifths of
the co.’s fixed capital is costing only 7.2 p.c.
The old business in its last years’ trad-
ing made an average net profit of £241,763.
After setting aside an unspecified amount
for taxation, depi*eciation, contingencies, etc.,
the present co. in its first 12 months regis-
tered £262,922, followed by £267,714 and
then £270,404 for the year to Feb. 27 last.
The difference between those figures and the
profits in the table, which shows the net
position from the shareholders’ point of
view, represents the charge for debenture in-
terest. Of the £200,404 of profit that thus
remained last year, the pref. requirements
called for less than one-third, and what was
left was equal to 11.5 p.c. on the ord. capi-
tal compared with 11.3 p.c. and 10.9 p.c. in
the two preceding years. That is to say,
the c-Oj is now’ disclosing a net result 2.2
p.c. better than the profit basis on which
the large amount of ordinary capital was
subscribed.
This plan of allowing a large amount of
the capital to be represented by debenture
or other loans is becoming more popular.
One co.’s capita] is £400,000, all represented
by shares; another’s is £400,000, one-lialf
of it represented by a debenture loan. The
difference between them is that the latter
can deduct the interest from its earnings
and the balance is profit on which income-tax
has to be paid, whereas the former can make
no deduction of any part of the interest or
dividend paid or payable on its shares: it
has to pay income-tax on the lot.
Plainly, the board of Horderns has been
giving a good deal of attention to strength-
ening the reserves which buttress capital.
Over the last three years £126,361, or 23
p.c. of the total profits shown in the table,
has remained in the business. Thus, after
wiping preliminary exes, out of the accounts
—the last £20,598 was struck off during the
past term—£64,s6B of nominal reserves re-
mained when the books were ruled off at
Feb. 27. Reserves are described as nominal
because they are subject to goodwill and
trade-marks, which figured in the prospectus
at £272,374, but are now lumped with free-
hold plant, etc., less depreciation, at
£1,724,340; and that is £19,317 less than at
the previous balance and £25,897 below the
1927 figure. The very extensive goodwill
which the co. inherited appears to have been
moderately priced at only £1970 more than
last year’s trading profit (£270,404). More-
over, the intangibles must be largely offset
by the hidden strength provided by unearned
increment in the freeholds. The Sydney pro-
perties, including the big pile on Brickfield
Hill, stand in the books at 1920 valuations,
less whatever lias been written off for depre-
ciation since; those in London were taken
over on the basis of a valuation made in
1912.
Though the co. has a big and growing
city trade, its sheet-anchor is still its strong
connection with the country. With a view 7
to livening turnover and reducing costs, the
new’ control introduced changes in the method
of conducting the business. About 18 months
ago it decided to follow the lead of some of
Sydney’s other retailers and remain open on
Friday nights; also the lay-by system was
introduced and the staff was reorganised.
Though some of these and other changes
were partly forced upon the co. by trade
competition, they are reflected in improved
results. Last year’s figures were surpris-
ingly good considering the difficult condi-
tions which prevailed.
This comparison of balance-sheet figures
suggests a quick response to the manage-
ment’s vitalising efforts:—
1927. 1928. 1929.
Ord. capital .. £1,246,250 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Pref. capital . . 750,000 750,000 750,000
7 p.c. debentures 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Sundry creditors.. 249,210 233,880 203,238
Freeholds, lease-
holds, plant,
goodwill, etc. . . 1,750,237 1,743,657 1,724,340
Stocks .. .. 1,130,878 1,033,605 947,023
Book debts, cash,
etc 441,777 605,157 674,568
During the year the co. bought part of the
Civil Service Store’s stocks —incidentally,
the Stores lost £7OOO on the deal—and
had little difficulty in getting rid of them
and a lot more of its own stocks be-
sides. At Feb. 27 stocks were £86,582 lighter
than at the previous balance; they have been
worked down £183,855 during the last two
years. Over that period £45,972 has been
clipped off the trade debt, which includes
provision for taxation, and debtors’ balances
and cash have grown by no less than
£232,791. The financial position is very
snug; creditors can see more than three
times the amount coming to them in book
debts and cash alone.
The ords., which have an active market,
are priced at 255. 6d. After allowing for the
final div. the return at that figure is a
whisper under 61 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis. _ Taking goodwill, etc., at prospectus
valuation, and deducting it. from the total
of net assets, the balance, being the net
tangible backing, amounts to 16s. Bd. per
share. For the prefs. 235. 4d. is paid, giving
a return of 6.5 p.c. The cover figures out
at 475. 9d. per share in net tangibles.
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson and Co.
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Feb., 1920. .26,223 124 p.e. = 15,750 1 „ Q - Q „ Q7 o
Staff fund. £3500 .. -.1 6 ’ 9 ' 3 6 ’ 973
Aug., 1920. .25,124 12* p.e. = 15,750 ( „ -
Staff fund, £l5OO .. ..) G*' 4 14,84 i
Feb., 1921. .22,736 124 p.c. = 15,750 6,986 21,833
Aug., 1921. .21,498 124 ~ ~15,750 5,748 27,581
Feb., 1922..21,718 124 „ „ 15,750 5,968 33,549
Aug., 1922.. 21.298 124 „ ~ 15,750 6,548 39,097
Feb., 1923.-21,643 124 ~ „ 15,750 5,893 44,990
Aug., 1923..22,398 124 .. „ 15,750 6,648 51,638
Feb., 1924..22,619 124 „ „ 15,750 6,869 58,507
Aug., 1924..22.694 124 ~ „ 15,750 6,944 65,451
Feb., 1925..23,207 124 „ „ 15,750 7,457 72,908
Aug., 1925..25,291 124 „ „ 15,750 9,641 82,449
Feb., 1926. .25,347 124 „ ~ 15,750 9,597 92,046
Aug., 1926. .28,446 15 „ ~18,900 9,546 101,592
Feb., 1927..28,316 124 „ „ 15,760 12,566 114.158
Aug., 1927..28,378 12* „ „ 15,750 12,628 126,786
Profit on sale of property, £52,671.. 179,457
Feb., 1928. .28,947 25 p.c. = 31,500 176,904
Aug., 1928..26,918 124 „ „ 15,750 11,168 188,072
Profit on sale of property, £8,665.. 196,737
Feb., 1929. . 28 503 12* p.c. = 15,750 U 75g 2 07,490
Staff fund, £2OOO .. -• 5
Impatient at the delay in distributing
sweets, shareholders in this prosperous Syd-
ney co., which runs a chain o£ drug-stores,
recently told the board to consider the
matter during the current term. Thereupon
the eager and expectant market further
advanced its bids —the pound shares have
gone from 51s. to 61s. in the last three years.
At the latter figure the return is only 4.1
p.c. on a 12J p.c. div. basis. Thus the inves-
tor who looks for only a shade over 6 p.c.
on his holding counts on a one-for-two issue
of bonus scrip. But the issue of bonus scrip
is not going to distribute the liquid assets,
of which the co. lias wfliat: looks to be an
excess.
It is almost-10 years since the last lot of
gift scrip was handed out; the proportion
was then one for five (£36,000), and followed
a similar distribution 18 months earlier. The
div. was immediately dropped from 15 p.c.
to p.c., and—except for two special cash
bonuses, together amounting to 7| p.c.—has
remained steady since. The margin between
earnings and distributions, however, has
steadily widened. Thus, with £61,336 of
profit on recent property sales, reserves
totalling £207,490 had been visibly accumu-
lated to assist £252,000 of paid capital at
Feb. 28. Some of the freeholds, by the way,
were picked up when prices were dirt-cheap
by comparison with those now ruling, and
it is almost certain that properties are still
worth much more than their book value.
When the co. sold Denison House, in George-
street, to McDowell’s, Ltd., for £140,000 a
couple of years ago, £llO,OOO of it remained
on mortgage, and the co. continues to occupy
the ground floor as a tenant. That is to
say, its trading there has not been disturbed
—for the present, at any rate.
Details concerning last year’s sale have
not been made available, but the net return
from trading and investments for the 12
months to Feb. 28 was 22 p.c. on paid capi-
tal compared with 22.7, 22.5, 20.1, 18.2 and
17.8 p.c. back to 1925. The average annual pet
profit over the last five years was sufficient
to have paid 12-£ p.c. on a capital half as
large again as the present figure, and then
nearly £6OOO would have been left over.
Of recent years the board lias not been
able to find profitable employment for
surplus earnings in the business. These have
been invested largely in Government securi-
ties ; hence liquids, including mortgages, have
piled up at an extraordinary rate: —
Feb.,’2l. Feb.,’27. Feb.,’2B. Feb.,’29.
Liquids.. £43,140 £202,507 £366,833 £379,808
Liabilities 34,684 49,417 48,228 47,429
£8,456 £154,090 £318,605 £332,379
The final div. and bonus will reduce the more
or less liquid surplus at Feb. 28 to £316,629.
Thus, since 1921 the surplus has been
strengthened by no less than £308,173. Over
the same period visible additions to reserves
total £192,643.
Here is the position in detail as far as the
published figures disclose it: —
Feb., Feb., Aug., Feb.,
1921. 1928. 1928. 1929.
Liabilities . . £34,684 £48,228 £53,943 £47,429
Premises, stocks,
plant, etc. .. 282,819 149,169 162,017 152,232
Rook debts, etc . . 10,445 144,007 143,698 174,105
Govt, securities .. 14,709 210,055 210,055 190,351
Cash, etc 17,986 12,772 1,366 15,352
Shares in other cos. 9,308 3,630 3,630 3,630
Balance-sheet groupings obscure the real
movements; but, despite the sale of one of
the co.’s freeholds, the book value of pre-
mises and stocks —an untidy entry—dropped
only £9785 during the last half-year. Book
debts, including mortgages, were up £30,407.
Government securities were drawn upon for
£19,704, and the cash holding was strength-
ened by £13,986. Since only £6514 was
clipped off the debt all this might mean
brisker trading, and as the co. makes much
of its own requirements it gathers a profit
at the manufacturing as well as the retail
end of the business on some lines.
When the books were last ruled off cash
and public securities together were still
equal to 16s. 4d. per share. No doubt many
of those on the register consider that they
could more profitably employ the money.
If this co. is getting an average of 5i p.c.
from its Government securities, its income
from that source alone is sufficient to pay
4 p.c. on the co.’s entire capital. The scrip
has a visible backing of 365. 4d. in net tan-
gibles.
Mutual Life and Citizens.
Ordinarf Life Department.
Added
Written to
Dec., Income. Claims. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1905.. 255,130 64,962 33,454 20,572 136,051
1910.. 941,605 481,526 84.252 2,524 373,303
1915. . 1,174,039 666,113 98,695 6,886 402,245
1918. . 1,273,685 805,623 95,304 147 372.611
1919. . 1,316,118 911,069 105,065 299,984
1920. . 1,383,575 789,726 131,286 10,245 452,318
1921. . 1,440,577 863,018 142,092 435,467
1922. . 1,524,474 963,716 135,915 424.843
1923.. 1,537,907 962,022 136,227 646 439,012
1924. 987.867 137,112 488,396
1925. . 1,685,960 1,036,473 140,373 509,114
1926. . 1,777,280 1,143,303 137,169 1.255 495,552
1927. . 1,834,631 1,208,544 138,508 1,558 ) , r o 7n „
To General Reserve, £32,318 j '' ’
1928. . 1,941,408 1,187,815 146,746 3,321 | rrq r9fi
Transferred to Income Tax Reserve, £50,000 f .
♦lncludes dividends to shareholders.
Industrial Life Department.
Expenses Added
(Including Written to
Dec., Income. Claims. Dividends).; Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1905.. 199,426 51,095 84,039 8577 55,715
1910.. 243,286 74,108 105,330 2755 61,093
1915.. 337,959 72,835 143,912 121,212
1918.. 409,949 160,209 176,638 2128 70,974
1919.. 430,803 183,019 195,605 1470 50,709
1920.. 446,911 154,264 201,103 1619 89,925
1921.. 488,369 150,210 213,639 2576 121,944
1922.. 528,700 168,502 216,804 3566 139,888
1923.. 571,676 177,315 255,621 2222 136,518
1924.. 606,121 199,890 248,667 3010 154,545
1925.. 647,779,210,802 260,596 3003 173,378
1926.. 702,441 220,950 266,648 3726 211,117
1927.. 748,088 266,027 284,818 2512 194,731
1928.. 774,993 270,683 283,702 2610 ) „ n 7 QOB
Transferred to Income Tax Reserve, £lO,OOO j ” '
This is Australia’s biggest and most success-
ful co-operative life office. For 21 years—-
to 1907 —it was the Citizens’ Life Assurance
Co., Ltd; then it absorbed the purely mutual
M.L.A., and took its present title. A couple
of years later the Widows’ Fund, another
mutual concern was welded into the business.
Both the mutual offices had got into a back-
wash, and the inducement which led to the
amalgamations was a guarantee, hacked by
the Citizens’ capital (then £20,000 paid),
that henceforth costs would not exceed 15
p.c. of total income.
Since then the history of the M.L.C. has
been one of steady progress, with substantial
margins in all matters upon which the
soundness and prosperity of a life office de-
pend. One of the outstanding features, and
one to which the eo.’s success is very largely
due, has been the low cost, of collecting the
expanding income—it has grown from
£884,806 in 1908 to £2,843,365 last year—
and of managing the mounting pile of invest-
ments (£18,792,732 at Dec. 31). In the
Ordinary branch exes, consumed 11.2 p.c. of
total income in 1908; tlie ratio had dropped
to 8.5 p.c. in 1924, and to 7.5 p.c. for each
of the last two years. The harvest of
premiums and interest for the 12 months
to Dec. 31 was more than three times that
of 20 years earlier.
In writing new business the aim of the
management lias been not big figures they
could easily be piled up if costs w r ere dis-
regarded-—but to put on the books new assur-
ances sufficient to lay the foundations for
future profits without starving those who are
entitled to rewards in the present. Exactly
what the right proportion is the “Wild Cat ’
does not know; it varies with the age of the
concern and other factors. Results, how-
ever, suggest that the M.L.C. has hit the
mark or thereabouts in this respect.
Now consider these figures : —
1919. 1927. 1928.
Policies .. .. 10,407 11,341 12,573
Amount . . . . £2,513,795 £3,499,967 £4,139,245
First premiums .. 88,277 112,006 156,149
Renewal „ .. 767,064 978,840 1,017,696
Last year £639,278 more new assurance was
put on the books than in the previous term.
The average per policy was £329 compared
with £309 in 1927. Excluding single pre-
miums, of which £20,911 were gathered last
year, and assuming that new business is
10 times more costly than old, then last year’s
first premiums were got in at the very low
cost of 62 p.e. as against 66 p.c. in 1927.
But that is leaving out of account,
and it is fair to do so in the comparisons
made, the £50,000 put aside to provide for
a stinging increase in Federal and State taxa-
tion. Altogether, £65,000 has been reserved
on this account, and that is more than three
times the amount the co. paid in taxes last
year (£21,388).
Policy-holders, however, need have no fears
on that account concerning the co.’s ability
to maintain the handsome bonuses now paid.
After making the reservation referred to
above, actuary R. D. Miller figured the surplus
at £624,370, which was £15,040 more than
the surplus in the previous term, and suffi-
cient to provide reversionary bonuses (i.e.,
additions to the sum assured) on the same
scale as in 1926 and 1927, when they ranged
from 'sos. per cent, to 84s. per cent. In 1920
the range was from 12s. 2d. per cent, to 60s.
per cent.
In the A.W.F. section, which is getting
smaller as policies become claims, and
which does not bear any of the cost
in connection with securing new busi-
ness, surviving policy-holders are hav-'
ing a rich time. The cash surplus allotted
last year (£57,947) provided a compound
reversionary bonus of £3 p.c. (i.e., bonus
on the sum assured plus bonus additions).
In 1926 a bonus of the same rate was equal
to 109 p.c. of the premium income, so policy-
holders are now getting back more than they
are putting in each year. And the trustees,
who declare this to be unique in the history
of life assurance, expect that the compound
bonus for the current year will be a special
one of £3 10s. per cent.
A fruitful source of profit in the M.L.,C. is
surplus interest. In the Ordinary branch it
is assumed that funds will net only 3 p.c.;
actually they turned in £5 14s. per cent,
last year. In' the Industrial section valua-
tions are on a mixed basis of 3 p.c. and
31 p.c.; the rate earned for the year was
£5 15s. 9d. per cent. They are remarkably
good returns considering that over 84 p.c.
of the assets are in public securities:—
1927. p.c. 1928. p.c.
Public securities. £15,830,504 85.3 £ 15,827,620 84.2
Mortgages . . 813,775 4.4 879,871 4.7
Loans on policies 1,230,523 6.6 1,288,428 6.9
Cash, book debts,
etc 347,991 1.9 442,249 2.3
Property .. 88,603 .5 90,773 .5
Other assets ~ 256,131 1.3 263,791 1.4
£18,567,527 £18,792,732
Liabilities* .. 1,850,966 1,079,601
Net assets ..£16,716,561 £17,713,131
♦Other than under policies.
The co. holds a lot of the public’s money at
call and on deposit, and profit-earning is
assisted by the margins won from the rein-
vestment. of these funds. Furthermore, it is
obvious that the assets are conservatively
valued ; the co.’s headquarters premises alone
should be worth about double the £90,773
at which properties figure in the books.
In the Industrial branch costs were up
a trifle. Excluding divs. and the special
reserve for taxation, exes, took 26.4 p.c. of
the total income last year compared wfith
25.7 p.c. and 25.9 p.c. in the two years
before that. The £207,998 added to the
assurance fund raised it to £3,089,545, or
£78,256 in excess of the liabilities under
policies. This branch, which is a handy
feeder to the Ordinary department, has been
offering with-profits contracts since 1925.
. There is also an Accident branch, which
yielded an underwriting surplus of £3316
last year and collected £22,658 in interest.
Shareholders draw their handsome returns
on £200,000 of paid capital from their pro-
portion of the surplus in each branch—last
year Ordinary, £93,258; Industrial, £78,000;
Accident, £18,742. The £190,000 thus dis-
tributed was 95 p.c. on paid capital com-
pared with 95, 90, 85 and 80 p.c. back to
1924. Though the proprietors are gleaning
golden grain, they have to earn £4 for Ordi-
nary policy-holders for every £1 to which
they are entitled.


/k
m
m
i.
7> v/ //
/ i
i
s>
z
distinction of the MILLS Hat
will win your approval on sight.
The name MILLS rises supreme
in the realm of fashion. It is a
guarantee of quality, of perfect style, ex-
quisite craftsmanship, and, above all, of
durability. Through all weathers, in every
season, the MILLS retains its shape and
smartness.
JL Hat that suits yourfersonalitu
Obtainable at all the
leading Men’s Stores
Ml
A PRODUCT OF UNITED FELT HATS PTV- LTD


Are Your Invest-
ments ROCKY?
MORE THAN HALF
OF ALL REGISTERED
COMPANIES FAIL.
<r
ONLY THE EXPERT
CAN READ THE SIGNS
Australia’s leading ex-
pert is
“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY.”
MAY NUMBER NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
$ Jfc ♦ *
On account of its low cost, simplicity of instal-
lation, economy of maintenance and proved efficiency,
Pioneer Wood Pipe has the endorsement of engineers
for all classes of public works. Being positively non-
corrosive Pioneer Wood Pipe maintains a fuil-
bore flow throughout its practically everlasting life.
Details of important local installations are available
and a copy of our latest catalogue giving useful
information will be sent free on request. The
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road
(near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.>\and at
Footscray, Victoria. —Anvr,
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
$ ♦ v
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
May’s Broadcast Fertiliser Spreader
Til I/II
;.vci)
Call and Inspect.
To Farmers and Graziers
The season is now approaching for
top-dressing your lands, and here
is the Ideal Machine for the job.
Spreads up to 40ft. 50-100 acres
per day.
SIMPLE —CHEAP —EFFECTIVE.
PRICE: £2l net f.o.r. Sydney.
For use with Spring Cart.
£2 extra for Motor-lorry attachments.
AGENTS WANTED.
AGENTS:
guthridge. ltd.,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monotael
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety ruse
Detonators
Cartridges
ADFIELDS
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS —DISC CRUSHERS —GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Ha (melds’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and t Alexandria, Sydney,
Foundries J Bassendean, Perth,
N.S.W.
W.A.
Branch { 422 Collins Street. Melbourne. Vie.
Office ST. & G. Building, Brisbane, Q.
Arthur Rickard Extended (Sydney).
, Dividends!-. s
Prefs. To Re- Re-
Profit. 74 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
Dec. £> £, £>£>£/
1918.. 17,179 9,438 6 p.c.= 7,500 241 10,976
1919.. 23,640 10,154 6 „ „ 9,000 4,486 15,462
Subsidiary cos.’ reserves, £19,944 . . 35,406
1920.. 43,467 12,281 7J p.c.= 11,250 19,936 55,342
1921.. 39,073 14,582 8 ~ „ 12,000 12,491 67,833
1922.. 34,264 14,781 8 „ „ 12,000 7,483 75,316
Subsidiary cos.’ assets written up
and bonus shares issued . . 37,428 112,744
Transferred to capital, £50,000 .. 62,744
8 p.c.
1923.. 38,849 19,169 8 p.c.= 12,000 7,680 70,424
1924.. 34,007 20,642 6 „ „ 12,090 1,275 71,699
1925.. 34,499 22,339 6 „ „ 12,000 160 71,859
Subsidiary cos.’ reserves £5OOO .. 76,859
1926.. 40,842 24,000 6 p.c. = 12,000 4,842 81,701
Transferred to capital, £50,000 .. 31,701
Subsidiaries’ reserves, £5658 . . 37,359
1927.. 42,002 26,233*5 p.c. = 11,641 4,128 41,487
1928.. 33,698 31,407* Nil 2,291 43,778
’lncludes 81 p.c. on 3rd prefs.
Since the present holding co. was formed in
1914, when it took over the 150,000 £1
shares in the then 10-year-old real-estate
business of Arthur Rickard and Co. and
bought all but a handful of the £lOO,OOO of
scrip in the Il'aymarket Permanent Build-
ing Co., it has added considerably to the
book value of its holdings, mainly in the
chief subsidiary, though meantime other
interests have been bought and some sold.
In this way £327,486 of pref. capital has
been issued during the last 15 years. The
last £25,000 was got in during the 12
months to Feb. 28; it was the balance of
100,000 81 P-c. £1 “D” shares offered in
the previous term, and made paid capital
£650,000 in 250,000 ords. and 400,000 cum.
prefs.—loo,ooo 8 p.c. “C” firsts, 200,000
8 p.c. “A” seconds and 100,000 81 p.c. “D”
thirds. The prefs. rank in the order stated
and the “D’s” participate with the ords.
u]i to 10 p.c. Over the past decade the ords.
have had an average of only 6 p.c. p.a., but
the capitalisation of £lOO,OOO of reserves
during that period would make a 6 p.c. div.
worth 10 p.c. to old holders.
The Extended Co.’s interests now are:—
Amount held
Paid by A.R.
Capital. Extended.
Arthur Rickard and Co., Ltd... £450,000 £450,000
Haymarket Permanent Building
Co. 125,000* 99,988
Northern Suburbs Building C 0... 20,060 20,000
‘lncludes £25,000 of pref. capital issued to the
public last year.
The Northern Suburbs Co. was added to the
list in 1926, when an extra £lOO,OOO of
scrip was also taken up in A. R. and Co.,
Ltd. Half a dozen years ago 100,874 £1
shares were held in Hotel Sydney, Ltd., but
the last 9000 were sold last year at a profit
of £1434. That, a small div. (£468) on
the same parcel and the returns from other
holdings make up the £33,698 of profit shown
in the table. It was £8304 short of the previous
year’s figure, and only £2291 more than the
various, pref. requirements called for, so the
ords. w T ere passed over. The shrinkage was
due to the poorer earnings of A. R. and
Co., and for this the board blames unfavor-
able seasonal conditions and general trade
depression. But there was nothing seriously
wrong with our primary industries; and,
though the city real-estate market was less
active than in the previous year, selling
agents reported record sales for suburban
properties.
The new pref. money that came in during
the term and a lot more besides was put out
on advance to A. R. and Co., whose debt
to the parent (£99,647) increased £50,177.
This subsidiary’s unsold land (£183,829) was
£21,156 lighter than at the close of the pre-
vious accounts, and balances owing on sales
(£281,734) —these are interest-bearing—were
£63,229 heavier. Its book debts (£60,044)
were down £30,251, and £2J,899 was added
to the book value of shares in other cos. But
its gross profits (£64,721) fell away £6105,
and since exes. (£40,263) were £l4ll heavier,
the backslide in the net result (£24,458 = 5.4
p.c. on paid capital) was £7516. And the
fact that the co. had 10s. Id. of outside
money at risk, apart from the amount owing
to the parent, for every £1 of shareholders’
funds does not make that result look any
better.
The Extended Co., unlike most other hold-
ing concerns, does not put its subsidiaries’
.figures into hiding. Here is the position as
disclosed at Dec. 31: —
Arthur Hay- Northern
Rickard market Surplus
Co. Co. Co. Total.
Mortgages, etc.. £223,073 £45,987 £3,560 £272,620
Deposits.. •• 5,583 5,58 S
Other debts . . 126;061* 553 184 126,798
Cit.v property .. 90,000 36,571 - 126,571
Unsold land •• 183,829 53,825 8,567 246,221
Balances owing,
etc. .. .. 281,734 42,629 14,441 338,804
Other book debts 60,044 5,816 65,860
Debentures • • 82,715 40,000 ■ 122,715
Shares in other cos. 145,270 1,075 7,960 154,305
Govt. securities __
and cash .. 11.103 102 11,20. j
’lncludes £99,647 owing to parent co.
In addition the parent owed depositors, etc.,
£28,072. The position will look more attrac-
tive when the heavy outside debt is substan-
tially reduced.
City properties include Rickard House, in
at £90,000 and said to be worth at least
£30,000 more. But whether shares in other
cos. are worth their book value is something
the investor can only guess at. Two years
ago unsold land totalled £143,426; the figure
had climbed to £246,221 at the close of last
accounts. Obviously there will need to be
some brisk selling before the participating
rights attached to the new “D” shares are
likely to be worth anything.
During the year the Haymarket Co. asked
the public for £50,000 81 p.c. pref. money,
but only £25,000 of it had beeh issued at
Dec. 31; an extra £13,544 was tacked on
to the outside debt. Unsold land (100,8-5)
was up £22,882; balances owing on sales
(£42,629) increased £8243. The net result
of the year’s trading (£7434) was £503
more than the pref. requirements, and the
usual 6 p.c. to the ords. called for. The co.
had 7s. B#. of the public’s money at risk
for every £1 of its own funds at Dec. 31.
In the Northern Suburbs Co. the year s
gross profit was only £1395, which became
£832 net; the figures compare With £222b
and £696 respectively for the preceding six
months. , , ' , .
At Dec. 31 the Extended Co. s accounts
showed net assets with a book value ot
£6 18s. 9d. for every “C” share, £2 195.4 d.
for the “A’s” and £3 18s. 9d. for the D s.
A year ago the market priced the C
shares at par and the “A’s” at 175.; now
it pays only 18s. 3d. for C s and 16s. for
the “A’s.” The returns at the latter figures
are 8.7 p.c. and 10 p.c. respectively. D s
and “B’s” are not quoted.
British Government officials, who are
anxious to obtain radium supplies e
Empire, want to see S. Aus. possibilities
more fully tested. There are two known im-
portant deposits of radium-bearing minerals
within the State —“One at Mt. Falhtet, SO
miles east of Farina,, and the other 20 miles
south-east of Olary, on the Broken Hill line.
The Mount Fainter deposits contain the
uranium minerals, autunite and torbernite,
and radium is present, as always, in propor-
tion to the uranium. At Olary the com-
moner mineral carnotite is the source of the
radium. This occurs as a yellowish powder
or incrustation on the faces, joints and cavi-
ties of the lode, which consists of magnetite,
titaniferous magnetite and quartz.
At present radium is worth from £lt>,UOU
to £12,000 per gram, or about 100,000 times
the price of gold. Much of the present
world-supply has come from the Chinkolobwe
mine, in Katanga, Belgian Congo. Here the
ore is mined in large quarries ahd then
shipped to Antwerp for treatment. Radium
deposits have been worked in Colorado,
U.S.A. Also during 1928 the Soviet Gov-
ernment carried on some work on ores from
Ferghana, distributing about six grams, and
the Czecho-Slovakian Government continued
developing the deposit at Joackimsthal.
The older of the S. Australian deposits has
been worked intermittently for the past 15
years. It is not the working of the mine
but the expense of recovery that has brought
the co. to grief hitherto. Only sufficient
capital to work from hand to mouth has ever
been available. ..
Uranium (radium) minerals are usually
associated with pegmatite dykes, and the
minerals carnotite and autunite, the sources
of radium, are most likely products of decom-
position from original minerals of a more
complex character.
* * * *
An electrolytic zinc plant,_ with a capacity
the same as the Electrolytic Zinc Co. s _ at
Risdon (50,000 tons per annum), is being
erected in Germany to treat Silesian zinc
ores. Since the separation of Upper Silesia
two years ago, Germany has had no adequate
treatment plant; now the German Govern-
ment has made money available on very favor-
able terms to assist in establishing the indus-
try. This is the first electrolytic! zinc works
in Germany, although Europe has eight of
them with a potential output of 90,000 tons a
year. U.S.A., during 1928, produced 160,000
tons of electrolytic zinc. *
Originally the production of electrolytic
zinc was only commercially practicable where
cheap power w T as available. Indications sire
that cheap power, although still very lm-
portant, is not now the controlling factor in
deciding whether a plant to distil or one to
electrically produce zinc should be erected.
The recovery of valuable by-products such as
cadmium, copper, cobalt and manganese,
which is not possible in zinc distillation, and
the growing demand for high-grade zinc for
brass, alloys and galvanising, are firmly
establishing electrolysis as a more economi-
cal method than distillation, even when
power is not very cheap.
* * * *
The Copper Nickel Co., which is working
deposits about five miles north of Zeehan
(Tas.) on the Emu Bay railway line, is plan-
ning to increase its output from 50 tons to
100 tons of high-grade sulphide ore per week.
The ore bodies, which are lenticular and
rich, occur distributed along the contact of
a basic dyke (norite) with the Dundas slate
country—the footwall rocks of the Bead-
Rosebery schists. The bodies are situated
in flat, low-lying button-grass country, and
in the winter water becomes a difficulty. The
deposits were worked before the war, the
ore being shipped to Germany for treatment.
During the war no market existed and opera-
tions naturally ceased. Ninety per cent, of
the world's supply of nickel comes from the
Sudbury field in Canada, where the deposits
are found on the contact of a norite intru-
sion with older rocks. Geologically the Zee-
han and Sudbury deposits have much in
common, but the Sudbury ore contains plati-
num, palladium, gold and silver in appre-
ciable quantities. The other important sup-
plier of nickel is New Caledonia, where the
ore is nickel silicate.
* * * *
Kangaroo Oil Wells No. 1 is being hatched
with a nominal capital of £300,000 in £1
shares, of Which 200,000 contribs. are to be
offered. The vendors take 24,000 f.p.’s, 2000
are for distribution to employees and 74,000
shares will be held in reserve. The co. is to
acquire an option held over an area near
Quilpie, s.-w. Queensland. A bore put down
over 2000 feet for water yielded a strong
flow of brine full of gas-producing oily
bubbles; these were identified as methane,
Walter Cameron, late Chief Government
Geologist, has examined the country, which
is on the southern rise of the Queensland
artesian basin. H’e thinks conditions favor
the existence of oil in quantity, and analyses
by the Government analyst point in the same
direction. Boring sites have been selected.
* * * *
Anxious to get something worth while in
the way of a dredging property in New
Guinea, Siamese Tin, an English concern
Which has been very successful in Southern
Asia, sent two expeditions into the island,
and both have been pulled out. The lower
Watut, though extremely rich in boulders,
failed on gold yardage as well as being too
expensive in the matter of transport. In the
second case values were right, but difficulty
of access killed all hopes. Though the syn-
dicate has pulled out of New Guinea, it is
still trying in Maoriland and Tasmania, and
preparations are being made to see if any-
thing worth while may be had in Australia.
So far Siamese Tin has not had a failure,
and it is jealously guarding its luck against
duffers.
* * * *
Dredging in New Guinea, particularly in
streams along the s.-e. coast, promises to be
made more interesting by the presence of
platinum and its associated metals in the
gravels. In four rivers it has been proved
that platinum is contained in the wash. For
years miners boxing in the streams went to
considerable trouble to separate the precious
Stuff from the gold and hurl it away with
violence. Now they are taking back what
they used to say about the “grey stuff.’’
The Germans located platinum in several
places and reported it in Government publi-
cations. The Waria River wash contains
platinum, and the dredging co. formed to
work that stream by sluicing expects to re-
cover a good deal of it. Tests there show
platinum values to be regular but low. Other
waterways in the Mandated Territory indi-
cate richer deposits. A few years ago a
prospector, who lias since made a fortune at
the game, coaxed £5OOO worth of osmiridium
out of river sands. At least he disposed of
it as osmiridium, but probably it contained
platinum and other allied metals of great
price. A sample saved by another prospector
and sent to Sydney for analysis gave: Plati-
num, 82.71 per cent.; osmiridium, 3.36 per
cent.; rhodium, 1.79 per cent.; iridium, .79
per cent.; palladium, .47 per cent.; gold, .94
per cent.; and 9.94 per cent, was base (unde-
termined) .
* * * *
Melbourne-controlled Waterloo has ex-
hausted its funds and is appealing to share-
holders for help. Since flotation early in
1927 exes., mostly on account of. develop-
ment, have mopped up £6600, of which £lBOO
represented a loan from the Mines Depart-
ment and £1195 receipts from gold produc-
tion The prospects of the show, which is
at Holdens, beyond Meekathafra (W.A.),
are fair, but so far it has been strangled
by want of capital.
* * * *
A. H. Collier, after seeing Lake View,
Wiluna and other Westralian shows in which
he is interested, has left for London with a
couple of options on goldmining ventures and
a handful of notes about others, including
the Sand Queen and Ives Reward. Several
out-back derelicts were brought under his
notice, but he held off.
’** * *
Tonnage at South Kalgurli (W.A.),
where operations were recently curtailed as
a result of damage to the shaft by an earth
tremor has been lifted to the previous level
with ore from the leased Croesus Proprietary
block. Co. is developing new ground in its
own leases, and hopes to strike Something
to compensate for poor developments in the
bottom of the main workings.
* * * *
Westralia’s gold yield increased a trifle
last month, but little growth need be looked
for until Wiluna starts production 12 or 18
months hence. Soon after that Lake View
and Star, at Kalgoorlie, will probably be
producing on a bigger scale, and the old
Edna May group at Westoma, urdess flooded
out in the meantime, will also be lending a
helping hand.
* * * *
Peninsula Tin, a reconstruction of the Ba
Na San, emerged from the Ambrose Pratt
stable in Melbourne in 1926, with a nominal
capital of £150,000 in £1 shares, of which
134,000 have been issued. Shortly snare-
holders will be asked to raise the denomi-
nation of the scrip to 305., making uncalled
capital £67,000. The dredge will get to work,
it is ■ hoped, by the end of July, the long
delay being mostly due to belated deliveries
of material. How much of the uncalled 10s
on the new scrip is to be got m is not
stated, but the idea behind the move is to
provide adequate working capital, when the
dredge kicks off, to wipe off liabilities, buj
the Bok Cham area lately tested, and provide
generally for extension of activities. lh<
Langsuan property has been bored, and is
believed to contain 8,000,000 c.y. of 17oz.
dirt to an average depth of 25 feet- Another
area of some 30 acres under E.P.L. has been
tested and rated as pound-a-yard ground.
The dredge-builders have agreed to postpone
payments due or accruing until next year,
and the directors hope that dredge returns
may make further calls unnecessary, it
made, they will not exceed 6d. per month.


ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
OF
COOLING SYSTEMS, LIMITED
(To be registered under the Companies Acts of N.S.W. 1899-1918).
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
OSWALD POWELL SELLERS, Esq., 86 Liverpool Street (Managing Director), Managing Director
of J. K. Johnston, Ltd., Sydney.
LOUIS MILTON TRIGGS, Esq., Managing Director of Wilcox, Mofflin, Ltd., Sydney.
RUPERT S. HARDEN, Esq., Managing Director of Harden & Johnston, Ltd., Sydney.
BANKERS:
UNIQN BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED, SYDNEY (Head Office).
SOLICITORS:
W. G. FORSYTH & COMPANY, 25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
AUDITOR:
R. C. BREWSTER Esq., F.F.1.A., 10 Spring Street, Sydney.
SECRETARY (pro tem.) AND OFFICES:
H. W. BELCHER, Esq., 86 Liverpool Street, Sydney.
BROKERS:
F. O. FURNER & COMPANY, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
CLARENCE DEGENHARDT & COMPANY, 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange).
CAPITAL: £lOO,OOO, divided into 100,000 shares of £1 each, of which
20,000 fully paid are to be issued as full consideration for the business of J. K. Johnston, Limited.
35,000 Shares are now offered for public subscription, payable 5/- per share on application, 5/- per share on allotment, and the balance in calls as required,
not exceeding 2/6 per share at intervals of not less than one (1) month.
45,000 will be held in reserve.
Subscribers will have the option of paying in full on allotment, or of paying all outstanding instalments on any due date for the payment of an instalment.
Dividends will accrue from the date of allotment upon the amount then paid, and upon any subsequent instalments upon the amount and from the date of payment.
ALLOTMENT OF SHARES.
The Directors will go to allotment when 10,000 of the shares offered for public subscription
have been applied for.
In the event of the issue being over subscribed, the shares beyond the aforementioned 10,000
shares will be allotted pro rata, or in such a manner as the Directors may determine.
If the number of shares allotted be less than that applied for, the surplus money will be
credited in reduction of the amount payable on allotment.
If no allotment is made, the amount of the deposit will be returned in full.
NOTE. —In regard to the issue of 35,000 shares above referred to, 10,000 shares have been
already allotted and 10,000 shares have been underwritten firm by several members of the Sydney
Stock Exchange, thus leaving only 15,000 shares available for public subscription.
LISTING ON STOCK EXCHANGE.
Application will bo made without delay to have the shares listed on the Sydney Stock
Exchange.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY.
The Company has been formed to acquire as a going: concern the whole of the liabilities
and assets, including stock and contracts, of >T. K. Johnston, Limited, Merchants, corner
Liverpool and Kent Streets, Sydney, who are distributors of: —
COPELAND Dependable Refrigeration,
LANZ Ice and Refrigerating Machines
and numerous other lines, and carry on the business of domestic and commercial refrigeration
engineers generally, and general merchants.
FINANCE.
I hereby certify that the last Audited Balance-sheet of the Vendor Company, dated 15th
December, 1928, disclosed a net profit, after allowances for Income Tax, Depreciation, etc.,
equivalent to over 20 per cent, per annum on the subscribed capital of J. K. Johnston, Limited
at that date.
The following is a statement relating to the acquisition of the business as disclosed by the
books at the 15th December, 1928, from which date the new Company will take over.
ASSETS.
Furniture and Fittings, Motor-car, Showground Building, Equipment, etc... £74G 17 10
Sundry Debtors, etc., and Bills Receivable . . . . .. . . .. . . 15,857 5 9
Services pre-paid .. .. .. .. . . .. . . . . . . . . 460 6 0
Stock .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 14,606 0 7
Petty Cash .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 25 0 0
£31,695 10 2
LIABILITIES.
Union Bank Current Account .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £6,079 9 0
Bills Payable and Sundry Creditors ~ .. .. .. .. .. .. 11,912 16 3
Income Tax Reserve . . . . . . . . . . .. .. .. .. 57 9 0
Interest in Suspense .. . . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 575 0 0
£18,624 14 3
(Signed) R. C. BREWSTER, F.F.1.A., Public Accountant.
The stock has been agreed and certified to by Messrs. Richard Wildridge and Company,
Consulting Engineers, whose statement is filed at the Solicitors’ Office.
UNEXECUTED CONTRACTS IN HAND.
A very valuable asset of which the New Company will have the benefit is uncompleted
contracts totalling £12,860, of which a considerable portion of the installation cost has already
been borne by the- Vendor Company. It is estimated that the profit on Uncompleted contracts
is approximately £2572.
An additional item of revenue is commission on Inter-State business, as the Vendor Company
holds the Australian Factory Representation of COPELAND PRODUCTS INC.
. When these items are taken into consideration, together with the amount of money spent
on the, organisation, of the very valuable agencies acquired and their revenue-producing
capacity, the amount paid for the business as a going concern, namely, £20,000 (inclusive of
goodwill of £6929) must be regarded as very reasonable.
ESTIMATED TURNOVER AND PROFITS.
After careful consideration of the business offering and the various channels for refrigeration,
based on the results so far obtained by the Vendor Company, it is estimated that very material
savings should be effected by the New Company in the following, viz:—
1— Overhead administrative and general trading expenses.
2 Purchase of stock-in-trade.
3 Installation expense.
And it is estimated that the results of trading should reasonably be as follows: Estimated
Profit and Loss Account for (1) one year, as estimated by responsible officers of the Company of
COOLING SYSTEMS, LIMITED.
J To purchase of Stock-in-trade, Duty and Landing Charges . . ..
Cost of Assembling, Installation, Service (including Wages, Rent, Cartage
and Insurance)
Selling Costs, including Commissions, Travelling Expenses, Discounts,
Advertising, etc. . . .. . .
Management and Administrative Expenses, Legal and Audit Fees, etc...
Depreciation, Federal and State Income. Tax
.BALANCE, ESTIMATED NET PROFIT FOR Y T EAR
By Sales.
£71,500 £llO,OOO
8,950
9,800
4,350
3,400
12,000
£llO,OOO £llO,OOO
THIS ESTIMATED NET PROFIT IS EQUAL TO OVER 20 PER CENT. ON THE PAID-UP
CAPITAL OF £55,000.
GENERAL.
As a result of a visit to America early in 1928 by Mr. 0. P. Sellers, a closer contact has
been made with COPELAND PRODUCTS, INC., of Detroit, with whom a three years’ agreement
was obtained, and arrangements are now being made to have this extended to five (5) years.
This is a distinctly advantageous arrangement, considering the usual 12 months’ agreement,
with thirty days’ cancellation clause given to distributors in America.
Very large sums have been expended in America, in testing, developing and perfecting the
COPELAND SYSTEM, with the result that the COPELAND is rapidly assuming one of the
leading places for volume of sales throughout the United States of America.
Since June 30, 1028, the Vendor Company has devoted its activities to the development of
the refrigeration business, and the Agency for the COPELAND Refrigerator has proved very
remunerative, owing to the large number of orders executed for its installation.
Owing to the limited capital available, the Vendor Company was only able to accept
a portion of the sales offering, and new capital is being sought to cope with the daily increasing
business.
LOCAL MARKET.
The Australian market so far has only been exploited to a very limited extent, but
competitive houses distributing refrigeration have been highly successful, as evidenced by their
balance-sheets and the rapid increase of value of their shares on the Stock Exchange.
TIIE COPELAND, although a recent advent to this market, has already been selected and
installed in such places as:—
Federal Capital Commission, Canberra
Queen’s Club
City Tattersall’s Club
Australian Club
Civic Club
Carrington Hotel, Katoomba
Tattersall’s Club (New Premises)
Royal Sydney Golf Club
Parramatta Bowling Club
Manly Golf Club
Avondale Golf Club
St. George Bowling Club
Warringah Bowling Club
Newcastle Club
Australian Golf Club
Ivillara Golf Club
Steyne H,otel
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel
Hotel Mansions
Hotel Kopje, New Guinea
George Hotel, Newcastle
Crown and Anchor Hotel, Newcastle
The Hydro, Leeton
Government House, New Guinea
St. Andrew’s College
Presbyterian Ladies’ College'
Scots’ College
Cootamundra Hospital
Forbes Hospital
Special School, Glenfield, etc.
The Company is equipped with the necessary organisation to handle all classes of refrigeration.
Some recent contracts obtained by the Vendor Company include:—
Federal Match Company—cooling matches in process of manufacture.
Deatons, Limited—beer-cooling system
New State Theatre, Melbourne—air cooling
New State Theatre, Sydney—air cooling.
Owing to the restrictions caused by limited capital, the Vendor Company has so far
confined its activities almost exclusively to small refrigerating cabinets, which is only one
of the many fields offering. The general field of refrigeration embraces: —-
Private Homes
Boarding Establishments
Hotels—
Kitchen use
Bottle cooling
Draught beer cooling
Stores
Dairies
Ice Cream Cabinets
Soda Fountains
Butchers’ Booms
Smallgoods Shops
Flats
Clubs
Hospitals
Theatres
Confectioners, etc.
DIVIDENDS.
The Company’s first Balance-sheet will be submitted after the period ending 31st December,
1929, and it is contemplated that Dividends will be payable half-yearly after that date.
BROKERAGE.
A brokerage of 6d. per share wifi be paid by the Company to members of any recognised
Stock Exchange on shares that may be allotted on application lodged by them and bearing their
stamp.
Applications may be made to the Brokers of the Company, or to the Secretary of the
Company, H. W. Belcher, Esq., 86 Liverpool Street, Sydney.
CONTRACTS.
The only Agreements which it is believed are material are as follows:
April 24, 1928 —H. M. Robins Company, Copeland Sales Company and the Vendor Company.
August 1, 1928—Bernhard Erler, Schwarzwaldwerke Lanz KG and the Vendor Company.
February, 1929- —Underwriting Agreements between Vendor Company and F. O. Fumer
and Company; and Clarence Degenhardt and Company; Herbert R. Nettheim ; L. A. Minnett;
Grant and Miller; and J. and J. 'North.
February 18, 1929—Agreement between Mr. 0. P. Sellers and W, G. Forsyth, as Trustee
for the new Company, for the appointment of Mr. O. P. Sellers as Managing Director.
The above are believed to be the whole of the Agreements which are material to be disclosed,
and subscribers for the shares will be deemed to have accepted the above as being in complete
satisfaction of the obligations under section 66 of the Companies Act 1899, and waive any
further compliance with that section.
The above agreements and a copy of the proposed Memorandum and Articles of Association
of the new Company may be inspected at the office of the Company’s Solicitors, W. G. Forsyth
and Co., 25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Dated this 7th day of March, 1929.
Note. —The foi-mation of this Company gives the investing public a unique opportunity to
invest in a company that has the agency and selling rights of one of the world’s foremost
Refrigerators—The Copeland.
During recent years Copeland Dependable Electric Refrigerators have met with instant success
and many important installations are constantly taking place in Sydney.
Since the Agency has been held in Sydney sales have constantly grown, and it can be
confidently anticipated that the profits from the future sale of Copeland Refrigerators will be
always on the up grade.
There is an ever growing market for Electric Refrigeration and, owing to the excellent
product and the well directed sales force of Copeland, investors can rest assured that Copeland
Refrigerators will obtain more than their share of the real Australian market.
THE DIRECTORS,
Cooling Systems, Ltd., \
C/o H. W. Belcher, Esq., 86 Liverpool Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs,
I/We enclose herewith my/our cheque for the sum of £ : : , being a deposit of 5/- per, share payable on application for shares of
£1 each in Cooling Systems, Limited, at par. I/We request you to allot me/us shares upon the terms of the Company’s Prospectus, dated 7th
day of March, 1929, and subject to the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the said Company. I/We hereby agree to accept the same, or any less number
of shares that may be allotted to me/us, and to pay the balance due from me/us as specified in the said Prospectus, and I/we authorise you to place my/our
name(s) upon the register of members of the Company in respect of the shares allotted to me/us.
DATED this day of , 1929.
USUAL SIGNATURE
NAME IN FULL
ate if Mr., Mrs. or Miss.)
ADDRESS IN FULL
OCCUPATION
B. 15/5/’29.


MU RDOCH made
lamoe
Coat Sweaters
{'OAT Sweaters and Pullovers are the ideal
Winter garments. Handy to slip into at any
time, and with the protective qualities of Wool, they
form a convenient and sure defence against penetrating chills and changing
temperatures. MURDOCH COAT SWEATERS are made with
double cuffs, are close knitted, have flat seams and taped shoulders
everything to (insure cosy comfort and good service. Prices, too, are the lowest
—due to Murdoch’s “Mill to Wearer” Trading.
A Murdoch
“Mill to Wearer” Special
Men’s Wool Coat Sweaters. To impart greater wearing ability
to the garment, a small percentage of Cotton is added—this
in no way sacrifices the cosy comfort—a feature which has made
Murdoch Coat Sweaters famous. V neck and double cuffs,
as illustration B. Mid Grey or Dark Grey. Chest measurement,
34 inches.
MURDOCH’S
Supreme
Value —
m
J.3/6; 38 and 40in, 14/6; 42 and 44in, 15/6.
A
-m
ill
m
H
k, %
\J
BOBS
m
1
1
mm
i *»»SM
m
m
m
m
B
tm
V Neck Style
MEN’S ALL-WOOL GOAT SWEATERS.—
Mid or Dark Grey, Fawn, Slate, or Heather
mixtures. Size, 34in. Price
15'6
36in, 16/6 ; 38 and 40 in, 1 7/6 ; 42 and 44in, 1 8/6 ;
4Gin, 19/6.
SUPERIOR QUALITY ALL-WOOL COAT SWEATERS.—
Plain Knit with heavy trimmings. V neck style, as
illustration B. Shades: Mid or Dark Grey,
Fr.wn, Slate, or Heather. Size, 34
inches
22'6
36in, 24/‘- ; 38 and 40 in, 25/6; 42 and 44 in, 27/6.
Roll Collar Style
MEN’S ALL-WOOL COAT SWEATERS, with
Roll Collar, as illustration A. Light, Mid,
Dark Grey, Fawn, or Slate. Size, 34in ..
18'6
36in, 19/6 ; 38 and 40 in, 21/- ; 42 and 44 in, 22/6.
Lumber Jackets
FOR MEN—Fancy Jacquard designs, latest colourings.
Two breast, poeke’ts. Band at waist,
illustration C, or with Blouse feffect.
34in
As
Size,
30/=
36in., 32/6; 38 and 40 in., 35/-
MEN’S LUMBER JACKETS, in Fancy Jacquard or
Check designs. A large range of colourings.
34in 32/6 35/- 37/6
36in 35/- 37/6 40/-
38 and 40 in 37/6 40/-‘ 42/6
Fancy Coat Sweaters
MEN’S FANCY PINEAPPLE-STITCH COAT
SWEATERS, as illustration E.
Newest colourings. Made with
V front. Size, 34in
2216
36in., 22/6; 38 and 40 in., 23/6; 42in. 24/6
MEN’S COAT SWEATERS.—In fancy designs.
Newest colourings. V front,
as illustration E. Size 34
inches
27'6
36in, 29/6 ; 38 and 40 in, 31/6 ; 42 and
44 in, 33/6.
Polo Collar Style
MEN’S WOOL GOAT SWEATERS,
percentage of Cotton. Polo
Collar, button to neck. Dark
Grey shade only. Size, 34in ..
36in, 16/6 ; 38 and 40 in, 17/6
44 in. 1 8/6.
Small
15'6
42 and
Pullovers
WARM AND COSY ALL-WOOL
PULLOVERS FOR MEN. V neck
FANCY
style, as
illustration D. Assorted Heather
shades in latest designs. Ribbed
cuffs. Sizes, 34 and 36 in ..
15'6
38 and 40 in, 16/6 ; 42 and 44 in, 17/6.
MEN’S FANCY STRIPED PULLOVERS,
with V neck,
shades. Heavy
inches
Heather
Knit, 34
IS'll
36in, 19/11 ; 38 and 40 in, 21/- ; 42 and
44in. 22/6.
MEN’S FANCY JACQUARD AND CHECK
DESIGN PULLOVERS. Latest designs and
colourings. V neck style, as illustration D.
34—23/6, 27/6, 30/-, 32/6, 35/-, 37/6,
40/-.
36—25/, 29/6, 32/6, 35/-, 37/6, 40A-,
42/6.
38 and 40—26/6, 31/6, 35/-, 37/6, 40/-,
42/6, 45/-.
42 and 44—28/-, 33/6, 37/6.
A FREE
Copy
awaits you —
of Murdoch's Autumn and
Winter Catalogue, contain-
ing complete list of Pull-
overs, Coat Sweaters, etc.,
and all Men’s and Boys'
Wear profusely illus-
trated. Write to Desk R .
for your FREE Copy.
Park & George Sts., Sudneu
T
“The World’s Largest Men’s and Boys’ Wear Store.
»
POSTAGE
PAID TO
YOUR
DOOR.
Kindly address
your letter to


PEAPES
!
I Tobacco Department
■i
ij A reminder that, in addition to
providing everything of the best
I; for men’s and boys’ wear,
PEAPES also offer a selection
I I of the finest tobaccos, cigars,
1 cigarettes, pipes and smokers’
'< requisites—many of the lines
i being obtainable only at
i PEAPES.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
greys;
SIZE nT WO
SILK CUT VIRGINIA.
EYS
1® for CIGARETTES 2® for £/&
They Satisfy
because they are made from 100
per cent, pure Virginia tobacco,
thoroughly matured. “Greys”
have a reputation they cannot
afford to lose; they are therefore
consistent in their perfect quality.
“Greys” protect your palate and
leave no after taste. Let your
next smoke be a “GREYS.”
Of course you
know “Greys
Heavyweights”
are now 1/- for
10; 2/- for 20.
52Ma£leaySt.
Limited
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT
{Located within the City Boundary, seven
minutes jrorn G.P.0.)
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 150 Rooms, is now open and
features Two-, Three- and Four-
room Suites, each with Bath; also
Single and Double Rooms. Central
Heating, Running Water and
’Phones installed in each room.
Unsurpassed Harbor Views.
Weekly inclusive tariff,
from £5/5/-
Daily, from £1
Telephone: F 2161 (8 lines); Tele-
graphic address: “Fifmac,” Syd-
ney.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Riveriua”: Old man Pennyfoot was hold-
ing forth as Parkins, the horsebreaker,
entered the bar of the Shearers’ Arms.
“Yairs,” the ancient was saying, “not one
of ’em in the yard ’ad ever ’ad a strap
on, but I caught one, ’andled ’im a bit,
then slung on the ’arness and put ’im in the
cart. O’ course ’e played up a bit, but 1
soon bested ’im. Then I catches another, an’
drives the pair; an’ arter that a • third an’
a fourth. In an ’our’s time they was as
fine a four-in-’and team as you’d see any-
where!” Parkins could stand it no longer.
“A fat lot o’ breakin’-in you’ve done!” he
sneered. “I like your sort —handlin’ an’
drivin’ four horses in an hour!” “’Orses!”
snorted Dad Pennyfoot, “who the blazes
spoke about ’orses? I was just tellin’ these
chaps ’ow I broke-in a team o’ billygoats
fer the kids!”
* * * *
R. «T. Cooper, of Darwin, writes: A par.
in a recent Bulletin refers to a short-rifle
of mine in Adelaide Museum with which, it
is said, I shot 3000 buffaloes in 21 years.
I shot the 3000 all right, but it took only
three years to do it. In 31 years at the
game I’ve worn out seven rifles; I have my-
self shot over 17,000 buffaloes and shipped
away over 12,000 skins.
* * * *
“Top-off”: I entirely disagree with those
writers who, after a cursory observation of
the popogloss, the strange gilled mammal that
frequents the beaches of Arnhem Land,
Cochin China and Patagonia, declare that
when alarmed the creature projects its eyes
aloft on pink stalks, in periscope fashion,
so that it may better discern from whence
the danger.arises and whither it might most
safely flee, if so be that there is any
place to flee to; it being well known to
all who have lived for any length of time in
those localities that the popogloss’s gills are
so constructed as to impede any extra-centri-
fugal movement of its optical arrangements,
so that, even if it wished to, the creature
could not do so, and even if it could, owing
to the barren and desolate nature of the
beaches, it wouldn’t be much use its looking
for places to flee to, even if there were
any danger, which there isn’t, a point which,
I hope, I have now made perfectly clear and
buried for ever a vulgar superstition that
no qualified zoologist would ever, no matter
what the lineage rate, be tempted to parade
in the public prints.
* * # St
“Wingella”: I’ve never seen a hare danc-
ing in the moonlight, but I’ve seen a dancing
mouse. Each night, as the moonlight fell
across my bedroom floor, the tiny thing would
whisk out into the light, and begin dancing
on its hind legs, and squeaking away so
faintly that I had to strain my ears to
hear it. I saw the wee creature at other
times, an ordinary little grey mouse, but
only when the moonlight fell on the floor
would it dance.
* * * *
“Zorro”: “Runa” is assuming too much
when he condemns the pukeko, Maoriland’s
beautiful parrot, as a pest (B. 10/4/’29).
Latest witness for the defence is David
Smith, big cocky in the Wairarapa, one of
JM.L.'s most desirable farming localities, who
declares that 60 years of observation of
the birds have failed to reveal that they
ever attacked his crop, though they strut
round his grain stacks every day. The sug-
gestion that there should be an open season
for the birds has brought heaped testimony,
which, to say the least, leaves the case
against them very doubtful.
EARLY INFORMATION.
“And was Mrs. Swank surprised when she found out
you were leaving her, Cook?”
“Oh, no Ma’am. She knew before I did.”
“Gouger”: The North Kimberley region
in which the Southern Cross came down is
a really beautiful country fringed on the
coast-line by battlemented cliffs. Inland, it
opposes to invasion from the south the
great wall of the Leopold ranges, while the
Cambridge Gulf is a. moat between it and
the Territory. The
country is a jumbled
mass of ranges of un-
usual scenic beauty,
intersected by many
streams and green val-
leys densely grassed.
Over large patches the
grass is good too —
Mitchell, Flinders,
Blue, Kangaroo and
other native pastures,
which some day will
fatten stock. There
are numerous deep
gorges of sombre and
forbidding aspect, but
tbere are also water-
ways, harboring count-
less thousands of wild-
fowl —ducks in many
varieties, great flocks
of pigeons, white and
black cockatoos, mag-
pie geese, pelicans,
cranes and the kingly
jabiru. ’Roos, walla-
bies, ’gators, ’possums,
lizards, emus and
many other crawling,
hopping and burrow-
ing things abound and fatten the local abos.
into the biggest and sturdiest samples of
their race.
* * # *
“Tendo”: Watching the tide coming up
the Styx River (C.Q.) is an awe-inspiring
sight. At Charon’s Ferry, 26 miles from
the mouth, the river is half a mile wide. At
low tide there are only two streams, 15 yards
wide and a few feet deep. A mighty roar
in the distance is the first indication that
the tide is coming; then the branches of the
trees start to wave with the strong wind
that precedes the tide. Round a bend comes
this tj.de, a solid wall of water three feet in
height travelling at the speed of an express
train. From the time the first water passes
until it is full tide is only 28 minutes.
Instead now of two small streams and a
large expanse of sand, there is a river
half a mile wide and 15 feet deep.
He H* * H*
“Eap” : When the late G. H. Ebden owned
Kuba station on the Murrumbidgee River
he lost a valuable watch at shearing time.
The next season every shearer who asked
for a pen was cross-examined thus: “Did
you sheah lieali last yeah?” If the man
said he did, the retort was crushing. “Well,
you won’t sheah heah this yeah. I lost my
gold repeatah last yeah.” But Ebden’s dark
suspicions were unfounded. The watch,
months later, was found in Bradford (Eng-
land) in a bale of wool, and returned to its
owner.
“Thomas Pepper” : Around the never-fail-
ing spring on the summit of Mt. Bryan
(S.A.) lives one of the most curious creatures
on earth —the “ironstone” frog (Gobbii om-
nibus). These huge amphibians live in
burrows like rabbits, from which they emerge
at sunset to feed, principally upon the eggs
and young of the rock-rabbit
(Bunni lapidus). Having fed,
the frogs hop down the moun-
tain searching for nodules of
ironstone, which they swallow
in order to enable their gizzards
to grind up their food. This
done, they crawl slowly back to
the summit—being too heavily
ballasted down with rock to hop,
and, arriving at the summit
again, they squat in the mouths
of their burrows, and their deep
musical-croaking rolls down the
slopes like the chimes of church-
bells. But about once in every
five years a snowstorm blankets
Mt. Bryan a foot deep, and then
the frogs are miserable indeed.
They manage to snap up enough
of the young rock-rabbits which
are gambolling on the snow to
stay their hunger, but they can-
not obtain any pebbles on
account of the snow on the
ground. As a result, they
suffer from acute indigestion,
and, instead of their usual
cheerful croaking, they utter
heart-rending groans and cries.
The noise of some 3000 frogs
(number taken at the last cen-
sus), each as big as a football,
groaning in chorus is almost
deafening. Often have I pulled
up my horse on the Burra-road
below the mountain, and gazed
up at the moonlit beauty of the
snow-clad peak, while down the
rock-strewn gullies the noise of
the anguished frogs sounded like the thunder
of a heavy surf on a rockbound shore.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: As a result of the
search for Kingsford Smith and his mates,
the Far North has been getting more pub-
licity than it ever had before, and almost
every word goes to confirm the erroneous
opinion generally held outside Australia, that
with the exception of a narrow fringe around
the coast, this country is nothing more than
a howling desert of sand and gibbers. The
term “desert,” as applied to the interior of
this continent, is entirely misleading. I have
a good knowledge of the interior of Austra-
lia, and if there is any true desert in the
land, such as the lifeless sand dunes of the
Sahara or the absolutely bare gibber plains
of the desert of Atacama, I have not seen it,
and I have yet to meet the man who has.
v $
“Machete” : When those curious survivals
of the prehistoric ages, the ceratodus and
the platypus, were in danger of extinction
some years ago, they were rigidly protected.
As a result, not only is the platypus rapidly
increasing its numbers all over its wide Aus-
tralian range, but the Queensland lungfish,
originally restricted to one river system, has
become established in other waters. Some
time ago> Enoggera reservoir, near Brisbane,
was found to contain many fish grown from
fry transferred from the Burnett River.
Now they have become so common in the
headwaters of the Brisbane River, where
fry were freed years ago by the McOonnels
of Fassifern, that the Fisheries Department
is being asked to lift the ban. for a while
at least.. The fish, many of which run to
over 201 b., are persistent filchers of bait
intended for other varieties, and as they are
also notorious tackle breakers, local fisher-
men find them a nuisance.
* * * *
“Erka” : One of the worst vices in a dog
is jealousy. Biting is only a secondary fault
compared with this, which is the chief reason
why dogs fight. It is not so marked in
dogs of pure breed as in mongrels. An
instance of this was brought before me
when I noticed my friend’s kelpie-grey-
liound cross growling at my pure bred cattle-
dog on the latter being petted by my friend.
Eventually it led to a fight with disastrous
results to the mongrel. My dog has never
been jealous of another dog to my know-
ledge, though its affection is one of its
best traits. Fox terriers and Irish terriers
show a tendency -towards jealousy, and it
requires a. great deal of tact to stop them
from fighting. Bulldogs, sealyhams, poodles
and other dogs, which society ladies keep,
also have this particular bent, caused mostly
by petting and spoiling. Cattle- and sheep-
dogs, when pure-breds, show no sign of
jealousy.
(Continued on page 25.)
SALT OF THE EARTH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN..]
He is the man who will stand his ground
when others have cut and run,
For wrong or right in a losing fight till he
or the fight be done,
Who’ll take the weight and bear the brunt
and battle it out with a, grin
Back to the wall, whatever befall—the
beggar that won’t give in.
He’ll talk to your face and lie’ll speak no
harm either of foe or friend,
Though lie know full well, he never will tell,
not to the bitter end.
A smile is met with a brighter smile, a blow
with a harder blow.
He’s at your side, whatever betide—the
beggar that won’t let go.
He’ll share his purse and he’ll lend a hand
and none may know of the loan;
In turn you’ll lend and he’ll freely spend, as
freely he spent his own.
Though times are bad and he’s down and out
and Fortune her blackest frown,
And it’s sink or swim, don’t worry for him—
the beggar that won’t stop down.
He stands amongst men with shoulders
square .and straight the glance of his eye,
With head unbowed he will face the crowd
and scorn for himself to lie,
But to shield another he’ll lie on oath and
lie ’till his breath be gone,
With all his weight on the lie told straight—
the beggar that won't let on.
You will find him scattered about the world,
no matter his creed and birth,
No matter his name, lie’s ever the same—•
salt of the hungry earth.
He’ll give the dregs of the water-bag and
swear there’s enough for two,
When footsteps lag he’ll carry your swag—
the beggar that sees you through.
MRS. BILKINS'S COMFORT.
MRS. FITZGIN: “And what have you got in the glass-case, Mrs. Bilkins? Why, it looks
like false teeth!”
THE WIDOW BILKINS: “Ah, don’t call it false teeth Mrs. Fitzgin — it's all I was able
to save of my poor Bilkins's happy smile.”
E. W. O’BRIEN.
Broadly built in the mould of a man, little
mayhap of a saint,
Right from the start you’ll open your heart
and tell him without restraint.
“Here two men meet” is the message plain
in grip of the meeting hands,
Whatever portend, he’s in to the end —the
beggar that understands.
N.s.w.


ESSEX
/
THE CHALLENGER.
?* »'
' ■ \ v .
\
l .iiv-V*
« ■
Ni. -n
ft
A
I
A,
w
At*
A
TSSScSSqe
rr^ 7
;.>■»<
■«,s>*
S t(JMiner unsurpassed at higher prices
ď
đ
Essex the Challenger is built
in the same factory as the
Greater Hudson. It is made
to give year after year of
reliable, trouble-free motoring
pleasure, with performance,
economy, beauty and appoint-
ments usually found only in
cars much higher in price.
Go to your Hudson-Essex
dealer and ask him to let
you pit Essex the Challenger
against anything that motor-
dom has to offer. Only
then will its true value be
revealed.
ESSEX PRICES AT SYDNEY.
5 Balloon Tyres Standard Equipment.
Tourer (Australian Body) . . • •
Standard Sedan (Australian Body) . .
Standard Sedan (Imported Body)
Coupe (Imported Body)
Town Sedan (Imported Body, with bumper bars) . .
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR
DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.
COMPANY
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
MOTORS LIMITED.,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
AUTOS LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.


wm/fomm
w
FOR
RUPTURE,
©
You’ve never worn a Truss
like this before. You’ve never
known such comfort, such
freedom. Denyer’s Elastic
Truss is always comfortable,
always effective. The patent
water pad in this Truss affords
the ideal Rupture treatment.
Pamphlet free on request.
Single, 30/-; Double, 40/-
DENYER BROS.,
Dept. 1, 267 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Chains-Chains-Chains- Chains
Silent Drive
Chains .
Australian-made —better than Imported
Support Your Secondary Industries
Non-skid, hand-forged chains for a Ford to •
7-ton truck.
Chains for Collieries.
Chains for Brickyards.
Pit-cage chains.
Lashing chains.
Messenger and Steering-wheel chains.
Sling, Snigging, Plough and leading chains.
Roller and Conveyor chains of all descriptions.
Mooring and Ships’ Cable chains.
Made from best Staffordshire iron.
The only complete chain works in the Common
iveaiih.
All chains tested to Lloyd’s standard and
certificates issued,
BLOOMERS CHAINS, LTD.,
BRISBANE.
d
STAG'S
The Sign ot
QUALITY
The Wunderlich Trademark is
a sign of quality it is your
guarantee of sterling value in
the following materials :
Art Metal Ceilings, Terra Cotta
Roofing Tiles, Asbestos Cement
(Durabestos) Building Sheets.
Look for the trademark on these
products, when you purchase.
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
“Vulagi”: On a Fiji plantation old Don-
ald, a skilled Scottish agriculturist, whose
only experience of peanuts was by the paper
bagful, was advised to plant a plot of five
acres with them. As time went on the
manager asked kindly after them and was
told they had come up well. Later the
report was that they were making a good
show and finally that they were “no dom gude
at all. Plenty o’ vine but no’ a nut to
be seen.” He was astonished to hear that the
peanut crops under ground, and reported
when he went down to see that the plot was
being ploughed out, according to instructions,
“the boys were ploughing as they neverrr
ploughed beforrre. An a’ the wummen an’
bairns were carrrting away’ nuts by the
bagfu’.”
* * * *
“Wrash”: Several people and many houses
had narrow escapes from destruction when
bushman Bill Southam felled a long tree
near the summit of Mt. Dromedary on the
N.S.W. South Coast. Bill, who was work-
ing directly above the miners’ tenements on
the mountain side, did not calculate on the
greasiness of a log just peeled of its bark.
STILL HAD HIS PRIDE.
“Want food, do yer? Always begging! You just wait
till I call the dog!”
“No eatem dog, Missus. This feller ain’t sunk that
plurry low.”
Immediately he had stripped the last shred
preparatory to squaring the log for a bridge
girder, it slid away, gaining speed mightily
as it went until its long white barrel flashed
like a streak of light towards the houses.
Bill watched in horror. The sliding spar
scattered the garden fence of the uppermost
dwelling, glided underneath the next pile-
raised cottage, brushed by others, and shot
clean over one that stood sheltered in a
hollow. It dislodged tons of stone in its
career, knocked off the cap of a cliff further
down, and dived 200 feet into the creek
below. The only harm done was a ruined
garden fence and the destruction of a line
spotted gum-spar, reduced to fuzzy splinters
on the rocks of the gully.
WILLING TO OBLIGE.
DOCTOR (examining insurance applicant): “Any scars?”
EXZMINEE: “No, but I can give yer a fag, if that’ll do.”
“Verri”: Just at present the most popular
bird round about Stratford, in Taranaki
(M.L.), is the usually unesteemed starling.
Farm lands outside the town had a visita-
tion of caterpillars, which demolished acres
of oats and were leaving a trail of destruction
behind them. The local stock inspector
rushed to the scene and was discussing emer-
gency measures with the farmers, when
starlings began to arrive in large numbers
and settle down for the night. By dawn
the starling community had grown to an
immense flock, and with the first daylight
they solved the problem of caterpillar exter-
mination while a gratified inspector and
pleasantly surprised farmers looked on. To-
day the Taranaki farmer will tell you
enthusiastically that he always knew the
starling was a fine fellow at heart.
* * * *
“Up Top”: In the Kimberley (Nor’ West-
ralia) gold-rush in 1886 a
crowd of ruffianly nomads
made a lasting name for
themselves, the “R agg e d
Thirteen.” They were a
cosmopolitan band of cattle-
duffers and worse, who on
being kicked out of Queens-
land lit out for the policeless
spaces and the pickings of
a gold-rush. They crossed
the McArthur; then went on
to the Bar, and kept that
already lively place terror-
ised by revolver play until
the rest of the gold-seekers
combined and kicked them
out. Then the “Thirteen”
raided shanties and stores,
and held up travellers whose
parties were weaker than
their own. The only thing
they never stole was soap.
After raiding the shanty at
Abraham’s Billabong the
combined diggers ran them
clean out Of the Roper,
though as the crowd passed
on they drifted back again.
A favorite game of theirs
was to dress as Customs offi-
cers and collect the poll-tax
from Chows who followed up
the diggers, and were scat-
tered throughout the mining
camps of the territory. Only
two of the “Thirteen” were
brought to book by official-
dom. Three others were
quietly shot and the others
drifted away.
“Kirk”: With the heavy autumn rains
this year, mushrooms have been very plenti-
ful in the Speck and Vic. In Tasmania a
small fly has been attacking them, lay-
ing its eggs in the interstices on the under-
side. In a few hours on a warm day the
vegetable is alive with maggots, which
speedily reduce it to pulp. The eggs hatch
and the maggots develop with the rapidity of
mushroom growth. The marauder is smaller
than the house fly and is barred with grey
stripes. If the mushroom is the only host
for the development of this fly, one wonders
how the parent flies l , manage to develop just
at the mushroom period, as it vanes with the
autumn rains. I have found a few infected
mushrooms at Daylesford (Vic.), but the fly
is not general as in Tasmania, where only
the very youngest sporophores, gathered be-
fore the pest can attack them, are worth
harvesting.
* :> * *
“Sigs”: The snob is more often met
amongst station team draught-horses than
amongst riding hacks. He comports himself
with a quiet dignity that singles him out
at all times from his fellows. He is strictly
honest at work, but resents familiarities, and
never takes liberties with mankind. At the
dam or bore drain he drinks alone with only
his muzzle in, and he snaps at any horse
that splashes in alongside with proletarian
haste and manners. When finished, he backs
quietly away, while his fellows paw the
water and roll in the mud. He has no mates,
and feeds alone. In the team he needs no
attention, and when let go he walks oft
quietly to deliberately roll off his work stains
in full view of his master, for whom, as
for his equine companions, he seems to have
nothing but patrician contempt.
* * * *
“Caractacus”: The bush pub, though its
manners may be rough according to the
townsman’s code, nevertheless has its conven-
tions. I once heard a waitress upbraid a
diner for not placing his teaspoon in his cup
when satisfied, thereby causing her to bring
him a “return” —the spoon-in-cup being the
accepted sign of surfeit. Knife and fork
laid on the plate before it was empty was a
signal to remove the course. When laid be-
side it they indicated a desire for a second
helping; if the diner was still eating they
were set akimbo, tips on the plate-edge,
handles at right-angles. His meal concluded,
the diner “stacked his crocks” — i.e., piled
them up ready for removal to the wash-up—
as a guide to the waitress. I once heard a
youth severely chided on his lack of breeding
in leaving the table without so- stacking his
utensils and cutlery.
* * * *
“Bemon”: Old Bill had the floor. “Me
and Joe Parker,” he said, “were the best of
camp mates, but er course we has to spoil
it all —through dorgs. Joe had a mongrel
sheep-dorg, a good-fer-nothin’ brute. But
my little terrier Pat—well I never see the
likes. I’d taught him all manner of tricks
from findin’ my pipe to jumpin’ on Joe’s bed
to wake him of a mornin’, fer which he
wus never truly grateful. Well, one mornin’
we comes in cold and hungry from doing
our rabbit-traps, and the fust thing we see
is the remains of our joint of meat scattered
all over the camp floor, and Joe’s mongrel,
which had come home before us, standing out-
side the tent. My own little dorg was still
on his chain, where I’d put him to stop him
follerin’ us round the traps, lookin’ very inner-
cent. Well, me and Joe is just mad hungry
fer that meat and Joe is just goin’ to thrash
his mongrel for stealin’ it, when what does
Pat do but bark to attract our attention, then
slip his head out er his collar, run over to
where the meat bones was and make a pre-
tence of tearing the meat from them, tears
runnin’ down his face and droppin’ to the
ground all the time. Then he went back tc
his chain and slipped his head into the col-
lar again. But Pat’s doing the George
Washington act didn’t soften Joe —he was
still thinkin’ of the meat he wouldn’t have
fer his breakfast —and afore I picks what
he was doing he’d took up his gun and
shot my poor little dorg—after he’d up and
confessed his sin to save another dorg a
wliippin’. I couldn’t bear the sight of Joe
or liis mongrel after that, and I never spoke
to him no more.”
* * * *
“Gouger”: The Cape York Peninsula
natives know of a plant of marvellous cura-
tive and strengthening properties. All that
is ever told about it is that it is
very scarce, fruits during a very limited
season, and emits, when doing so, a puff
of explosive powder. Years of wandering
among northern tribes has convinced me
that there is something in these claims.
Probably the plant is of fungoid growth, and
of a species which never breaks above the
surface of the ground. The natives are
experienced botanists, and use over 170
different species of plants for food. Num-
bers of these plants are of semi-subterranean
habits. The wonderful healing plant is taboo
for all but the witch-doctors and old men of
influence. These are very bitter against the
whites, and as bitter against the young men
of the tribes who are scorning the old cus-
toms, and as they die they take their tribal
secrets with them.
* * * *
“Felix”: I stand to my guns. Though
more than one Abo.-liar has challenged me
on the point, cats are both affectionate and
understandable. Recent case in point. I
wanted a shilling, to buy—er —a treatise by
Einstein —and my better-half, who was hold-
ing the purse, said I had —er —read enough of
Einstein for one day. Tommy, my black cat,
who wanted to get outside to pursue his
lawful occasions, and knew very well that
unless I left the house the door wouldn’t be
opened, crept silently into the kitchen,
fossicked round till he found the purse,
which my spouse had hidden in the egg-
basket, and brought it to me in his mouth.
Two minutes later my wife was looking
vainly for a husband, a cat and a purse
containing 3s. 71d.
* * * *
“Up Top”: Organisation for pionesjing
jobs was first-class in the old days. When
Charles Todd, then P.-M.G., had charge of
construction of the middle section of the
North to South Overland Telegraph Line —
the two end sections were let by contract —
some of the working parties had to travel
over 1200 miles through unknown country
before they got to their job. They trekked for
months in waggons loaded with wire, materi-
als, rations and tools, over unknown areas
with water scarce in parts. They had to
make their own roads, construct bridges and
sink wells, scale precipitous ranges and nego-
tiate desert sandhills. The parties, to their
surprise, found that, instead of being all
desert, quite large areas of Centralia
were well grassed and watered. The greatest
difficulty was in finding suitable posts.
Scouts, were sent out in all directions, and
SHIFTING THE BLAME.
LANDLADY: “The fuss an’ noise you made
tryin' to get into the ’ouse last night
was DISGRACEFUL!"
LODGER: “Well — er, Mrs. Squidger, it’s not
entirely my fault — I’ve never seen a
door with such a few keyholes in it
in all my life!”
some loads of posts were carted a hundred
miles. They are all iron now. The centre
parties did their jobs well and finished
before time. The north and south sections,
particularly the northern, had endless
trouble and had eventually to be taken over
by the P.-M.G.
FROM A TRAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wind in the sky, and a mill-wheel
Weaving a drowsy rune
To the dust-brown road and the lucerne
In the late afternoon,
And a lone magpie calling
Over the still lagoon—
All these things are a magic,
And my heart’s a-tune!
An old brick well and a windmill
Calling the birds to drink
Of the cool, sweet waters lipping
The grass-plumes by the brink;
A magpie high on the mill tail,
The mill-rod clink-a-clink,
And a long lad couched in the grasses
Watching a wagtail prink!
Dusk and the cedars climbing
Homeward over the spur,
The wind in the oleanders,
A rollicking wheel a-whir;
A little grey possum shaking
Drops from his beaded fur,
And a lad (was it I?) in the grasses
Waiting the brown owl’s stir.
Dark and the old wheel crooning,
Crooning a spell until
A little white moon slips naked
Over the brow of the hill
To ponder her young grave beauty
In the black pool by the mill,
And Youth—oh, Youth ! —in the grasses
Dreaming, dreaming his fill!
A wind-blown sky and a mill-wheel
Weaving its ancient rune—
These things seen are a magic,
Heigh-ho! and my heart’s a-tune!
S.A.
M. R. C.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Englishwoman (36) partly-trained nurse,
typist, can drive car, would give services in
return for paid passage to England.—l^B.
Words of two or three very old comic
songs. (To A. ,1. Anderson, American Hotel,
Echuca, Vic.)
Pioneer’s son (33), offers services any con-
genial capacity anywhere. Followed theatri-
cal vocations; previously newspaper office. —
126.
By young Scotchman, N.S.VV. experience
stud cattle, job dairying, anywhere.—ll 3.
Jaekeroo (22), N.S.W., six years’ experi-
ence sheep, mixed farming, handy machinery,
wants position sheep-station, with possibility
advancement. —37.
Lady interested life cattle-stations, N.T.
or North Westralia, wants correspondents.
—5O.
Young man wants job Pacific Islands;
tackle anything.—49.
Brisbane accountant-secretary would like
to hear from businesses desirous representa-
tion Queensland; work not to exceed six
hours weekly.—7s.
By well-educated young man, Melbourne,
typewriting or clerical work, evenings.—32.
By young man (21) position Fiji or
Islands. Can drive car, tractor; good edu-
cation ; some clerical experience.—105.
By youth (18), experience sheep-stations,
N.S.W., S.A., job cattle-station, Northern
Territory.—lo 7.
By married couple, returning from abroad,
small furnished house or flat, Melbourne,
Nov. to March.—2o.
Elderly Repat. pensioner, Sydney, wants
any sort clerical work, day or night.-—64.
Englishman (32), four years’ Queensland
farming, company accountant, business ex-
perience London and Paris, wants position.
—9989.
Genuine prospector, N.Q., wants backing,
good territory.—46.
By family, six milkers, share dairy-farm,
Q’land ; reference. —57.
Radio operator (23) would like to corres-
pond with English or Scottish operator. —62.
Station overseer, N.S.W., married, requires
similar position anywhere; book-keeper and
mechanic; specialises improvements and
stock. —83.
Sydney girl, musician, four years’ singing
course at Con., wants position as companion
on station or person going abroad.—ll 2.
By ret. soldier (34), position as manager
of sheep property, N.S.W. or Q. Keep books,
experienced engines, sober. —120.
By hotel manager, abstainer, position,
N.5.W.—123.
Englishman, single, ret. soldier, farming
Vic. 6 years, engineering training, wants
position, anywhere.—l2s.
To buy parcels of stamps from shipping
offices or old accumulations. (To Potter,
Offord Gluny, Huntingdon, Eng.)
To buy second-hand collections short
stories by Maupassant, Wells, Balzac, O.
Henry, Jacobs, Barrie and James. —72.
To buy copies of American Mercury. —29.
To correspond with readers, either sex,
Australia or overseas. —73.
To correspond stamp collectors, Pacific
Islands, South America, West Indies. —70.
Collector, N.S.W., is prepared to purchase
books, fiction or otherwise. I—Bl. 1 —81.
Information Sought.
Would a university graduate in engineer-
ing be able to get a position in Queensland
without practical experience? —9B4B.
He should. His university course would
include a certain amount of practical train-
ing, and the Queensland engineering award
admits of the employment of uni. students.
Though the engineering industry is some-
what depressed, there is no reason why a
graduate should not be able to secure a posi-
tion on graduating.
What qualifications are necessary to get a
job as junior clerk in the N.S.W. Government
Savings Bank? Commencing salary? —9B29.
Applicants with Leaving Certificate are
eligible until they attain their 18th birthday;
those with Intermediate Certificate until they
are 17. Appointments are subject to satis-
factory medical examination; commencing
salary, £B3 per annum.
(1) How to dye a seagrass mat that is too
large to be dipped? (2) What could I use to
tint mill-white cold-water paint a pale green?
Would dry color be suitable? (3) How to
make kalsomine adhere to the walls? —9911.
(1) Mix a strong solution of dye, lay the
mat on the grass and apply the color with a
large, strong brush, dabbing it well in. When
it is dry turn the mat over and treat the
other side the same way. (2) Yes. (3)
Treat the walls as follows before applying
kalsomine: In a bucket mix one breakfast
cup of glue size in enough hot water to dis-
solve it; when free from lumps add eight
large cups of cold water. Paint over the
walls with this and let dry before kalso-
mining.
How to treat a new jarrah floor to which
only a linseed-oil mixture has been applied
so as to remove the reddish, tone and leave
it brownish? (2) How to proceed if polish-
ing a whole room? (3) Is this type of floor
effective if polished all over, with small rugs
laid down? —9824.
(1) Wash floor with hot water and a
strong solution of washing-soda to remove
oil. (2) Treat with a flat oil stain, dark oak
or walnut, till the desired shade is obtained.
When thoroughly dry, polish with an oil
wax, or a varnish may be applied and sub-
sequently waxed. (3) The floor, if well laid
and the timber of good quality, when finished
as described, will have a most effective
appearance.
Recipe for a good toilet soap? —97o6.
Five pounds mutton fat well clarified, lib.
caustic soda or lye, quart cold water, 2
tablespoons borax powder, 2 tablespoons
ammonia, 4oz. glycerine, ;ioz. oil of lavender
or any other perfume. Dissolve lye in water,
melt fat at a very low temperature (it must
not be hot), then beat it very slowly into
the lye and water. Add perfume, borax and
ammonia in that sequence, beat well, and
mould into shapes or bars. May be tinted
pink with cochineal.
(1) Any vacancies in the Instructional
Corps, C.M.F.? (2) If so, what is the age
group for candidates , and where should appli-
cation be made? (3) Is preference given to
ex-members of the A.1.F.? (4) Test? (5)
Common,cing salary and rank? —9780.
(1) Not at present. (2) Twenty-two to 40
years. Send name and address to Comman-
dant, 2nd District Base, Victoria Barracks,
Sydney, and you will be informed when the
next exam, will be held. (3) Yes. (4)
Candidates must pass a very strict medical
exam., a practical exam, in either Light
horse or infantry drill or tactics, and an
educational exam, equal to that for a second-
class certificate (military). (5) Warrant-
officer, Class 11, £5 per week, rising to
£6 2s. 6d.
(1) The respective speeds of light and
sound? (2) What is a light-year?- —l6.
(1) Light, 186,000 miles or 300,000,000
metres per second. Sound, in air at a tem-
perature of 50deg. (F.), 1110 ft. or 340
metres per second (speed increases somewhat
with the temperature) ; in water 1570 yards
or 1435 metres per second. (2) The distance
travelled by a ray of light in the space of
one year, roughly, 9,460,000,000,000,000
metres.
(1) At what angles should I mark the
hours on a sundial, Brisbane latitude? (2)
At what angle must the pointer be set from
the dial? (3) Should a sundial in Brisbane
differ from those in other parts of the
Southern Hemisphere P—9847.
(1) For a horizontal dial: 7dog. 3min„
14deg. 55min., 24deg. 46min., SSdeg. 37min.,
59deg. Slmin., 90deg. (2) 27deg. 28min.
(3) Yes; it requires to.be constructed for
the latitude in which it is to be set up.
Recipe for making brine?— 22.
Four gallons water, 161 b. brown sugar,
21b. saltpetre, 161 b. common salt, 31b. bay
salt. Bring to the boil, let boil for 15min.
and set aside till cold. Put in the meat, and
turn it every day for a w r eck.
(1) A varnish or polish that toill restore
a polished blackwood table with rope and
hot-plate marks on the surface? —9985.
If the marks are deep they must be sand-
papered till a smooth surface is obtained.
Heat marks are removed by light rubbing
with a mixture of raw linseed oil and a littl:
cloudy ammonia; finish off with a furniture
wax or a thick paste made by dissolving
brown beeswax in turpentine. Apply with
a fl,annel and polish with a silk duster. If
themarks are extensive, the process may re-
quire to be applied several times.
(1) Under what conditions may a British
subject enter New Caledonia? (2) Any
language test? (3) Is landing money in-
sisted on? (4) Fares, and how often do boats
sail?— 9BB4.
(1) He must have his passport; a French
Consular visa is unnecessary. (2) No. (3)
No. (4) Single fare, Sydney-Noumea, La
Perouse (Messageries Maritimes) : first-class,
£l5; 2nd, £lO. The La Perouse makes a trip
about every five weeks. The Moeraki
(A.U.S.N.) also calls at Noumea; apply
Burns, Pliilp. Some boats of the Societe
Ballande, of Noumea, are also available;
particulars, M. Pelletier, 16 Bridge-street.
How to tan kangaroo skins for rugs? —42.
In removing flesh and fat use no sodium
or lime; this hardens the fibres. Soak in
clean cold water for 24 hours, and over a
convex surface scrape the back of the skin
very carefully with a blunt instrument. Tan-
ning liquor: 31b. finely chopped or ground
bark, 4oz. powdered alum, 2oz. borax, lOgals.
water; prepared in a wooden cask. Put
skins in separately, and completely cover
with the liquor for seven days. Every day
or oftener the skins should be moved about
—top skin to the bottom and so on. The
next liquor is to be slightly stronger—6lb.
bark, alum, borax and water the same. Be-
fore putting the skins in again scrape the
backs carefully. The same handling as in
the first week. The third liquor is for only
two days and is much stronger; use 201 b. of
bark, 21b. of common salt and just suffi-
cient water to cover the skins. First day
give skins four or five handlings; none the
second day. Then take out and‘wash four
or five times until the smell of the bark is
quite gone. Dry slowly in a cool, draughty
place. As kangaroo skins tan out of shape
it will be necessary to set them out to their
normal shape again. Rub a little oil or dub-
bin on the flesh side and stretch out care-
fully, put weights on edges and leave on a
table until dry. It is not necessary to trim
the skins square for rug-making, but cut
the sides and ends perfectly straight.
How are Vie. health inspectors recruited?
Age limit, salary and other particulars? —•
Vacancies are advertised by the Public
Service Commissioner; maximum age, 40;
applicants must hold the Royal Sanitary
Institute certificate or other approved cer-
tificate ; salary, from £291 to £330 p.a.
(1) How to oxidise and polish sheet cop-
per? (2) Method of securing a gas from the
earth for testing, and where to send it?
(3) Who would supply information as to
marketing copper ore? —9 .
(1) Polish with emery paper, finishing
with brasso. Clean with spirits of salts,
following with a swab of ammonium sul-
phide or sodium sulphide solution. Wash
clean with water and give a thin dressing
of castor oil. (2 and 3) Place an inverted
funnel over the emanation; attach a rubber
tube to the end of the funnel. Head the
rubber tube to a basin of water in which
is submerged the mouth of an inverted
bottle also filled with water. Introduce
tube into the neck of bottle; the gas will
displace the water. When filled with gas, the
bottle should be corked and sealed with
paraffin. Send sample to Frank Hambridge,
22 Bridge-street. Sydney; he will have it
analysed. You may also write him regarding
your copper ore.
Must employers of domestics (N.S.W.)
give them annual holidays on full pay? —3.
They are not legally bound to do so; there
is no award for domestics, Federal or State.
(1) .Ire Commonwealth invalid pensions
pay able to blind persons? (2) If so, what
income limit is specified? (3) Are blind pen-
sioners treated differently from other invalid
pensioners ? —9922.
(1) Yes. (2) £221 p.a., with pension.
(3) Yes: tli.e provision in the Act regard-
ing their income does not apply to others.
A brief description of the death-adder? —
119.
He is a clumsy-looking fellow, with a
blunt, triangular head, and a short tail end-
ing in a horny spine—harmless this, though
there is a widespread belief to the contrary.
A few specimens have measured up to three
feet, but a trifle less than two feet is
average length. From his disinclination to
move when approached he is sometimes called
“deaf”-adder. Color in adults varies; dark
bands are a prominent feature in the young,
and may be maintained throughout life.
This snake is sometimes seen in sandy
country with only the head exposed. When
angry, he flattens his body to a surprising
extent, and strikes swiftly.
(1) 'Names of Queensland Senate candi-
dates, 1919, and votes polled for each? (2)
Date of the Federal election in 19221*- —76.
First preferences: John Adamson,
144,497: Myles Ferricks, 129,981; Tom
Glasgow, 16,810: Henry Turley, 4936; W.
J. It. Maughan. 4002: Tom Givens, 3531.
Adamson, Givens and Glasgow were elected.
(2) December 16.
How to grow the Australian ftowering-gum
from the nut after the blossom has dried
0ff?.—' 9956.
You don’t plant the nut or fruit of euca-
lypts, including the flowering-gum (Euca-
lyptus ficifolia) ; you extract the seed. The
fruit should be collected when the flowers
have fallen ; if not dry, artificial heat up to
lOOdeg. F. should be applied until the seed
is released. The best method is to place
the fruit on a fin.-mesh sieve and shake
from time to time during the drying process.
The seed from this species is easily distin-
guished from others on account of its wings.
It needs no further treatment before sowing.
(1) How can I start a cash-order busi-
ness? (2) Any registration? (3) How much
capital needed? —lls.
(1) By selling orders on storekeepers and
paying the storekeepers when the orders are
presented. Obviously this will mean making
an arrangement with the storekeepers before-
hand. What money there is in it will depend
wholly on your capacity for making
it. It is fairly easy to sell orders; but it
takes either experience or knowledge to sepa-
rate the good marks from the bad. (2) No.
(3) No minimum is required. You can stop
issuing credits whenever you like.
(1) Bush marrows, planted from proved
seed, were failures in my Vic. garden this
year. Why? Soil and water were as usual.
(2) Does a loganberry, if neglected, tend to
return to a wild state? Ours, pruned of old
growths and manured moderately, bore fruit
this year similar to a poor-quality blackberry
in size and of inferior log an flavor. (3) How
to destroy snails? —9951.
(1) Owing to the early dry summer, fol-
lowed by cold weather, plants of the marrow
and pumpkin family did not set their fruits
well in many parts of the Melbourne area
this year. Weather conditions were against
insect fertilisation. (2) Loganberries do not
usually revert. The method of pruning is to
cut out the old canes each year. If the old
canes are left to produce fruit, this is always
inferior to that borne on the new canes. (3)
Sprinkle calcium arsenate and bran about
their haunts. Use one part calcium arse-
nate to nine parts of bran; damp the bran,
mix the two well together and sprinkle mix-
ture along the fence. There is no per-
manency about any snail remedy. Frequent
waterings with creosote-water might check
their advance.
Have salt-cured crocodile hides any com-
mercial value? Would it pay me to send them
from Wcstralia to Eastern States? —9823.
A certain value, but supplies in Eastern
States largely exceed demand. Try Rosen-
stramms, Perth ; if they can’t buy it wouldn’t
pay you to ship to Melbourne or Sydney.
How to waterproof a blue-twill overall?
—9976.
Only application that can be suggested is
a waterproof oil similar to that used on oil-
skin coats; Is. 6d. per tin at Horderns’. It
would make the overall waterproof, but natu-
rally it is black.
Information Supplied.
9729. —To keep oilstones in good cutting
order. Place carborundum and other com-
position stones in a strong solution of caustic
soda and water and boil. Wash turkey and
other natural stones in petrol. Use a mix-
ture of three-parts kerosene and one-part
thin machine oil to lubricate the stones,
and they won’t clog up.—“ Bert the Car-
penter.”
9840. —To make a satisfactory blackboard,
set the timber together with well cramped
joints, and work to a smooth surface. Paint
with black liquid slating and stand it aside
for a day to dry. Then go over it lightly with
No. 0 sandpaper and paint again. When dry
use the sandpaper once more, and finish
with a third coat of the liquid slating.—
“Rotom.”
Brief Answers.
L.G.M.: (1 to 4) Highly speculative; we
don’t know of any market. (5) Disappointing;
but, given fair industrial conditions, still hopeful.
(6) Too much money was spent on premises, and
there is a tough fight ahead. Doubtful, too, whether
the premises are very suitable. (7) Presumably
you mean the prefs. They are next door to hopeless
—certainly not worth more than pence. .. .C.C.:
(1) No; Everyone’s (weekly, 6d.), 102 Sussex-
street, Sydney, is the nearest approach;. (2)
Decorator and Painter (monthly, 6d.), 24 Bond-
street, Sydney.... J.C.: It was written by Isaac
Watts. .. .L.A.S.: Any retail chemist should be able
to supply it; Elliotts, O’Connell-street, Sydney, sell
it wholesale... .W.A.: Write Sec., Navy League, 54a
Pitt-street, Sydney.... 0. J.P.: Think the statement
ridiculous. There is no “correct dose” of cod-liver
oil, but follow your doctor’s instructions and you
will be on the right lines... .J.T.D.: (1) Yes.
(2) (3) and (4) No E.A.E.: (1) Prospects are
not bright. Try any of the leading Island trading
firms. (2) Write Public Service Board, Perpetual
Trustee Building, Hunter-street, Sydney. .S.H.M.P.:
Smokeless riiie powder is not manufactured in Aus-
tralia ; the only material procurable for rifle cart-
ridges is No. 5 or No. 6 grain black powder.
Amberite is not suitable; Du Pont (which should
not be used except by an expert) has not been
obtainable for some time... .C.L.L.; Try R. J.
Brown, 1 Bligh-street, Sydney H.M.D.: Any of
the following: Geraldton Fruit Go., 185 Russell-
street; Hanger and lircrouse, 54 W illiam-street:
T. E. Parkes, Victoria Market; Moss and Sons,
Western Market —all Melbourne E.J.G.: (1) A
claim for commission would arise only when you
presented a bona fide purchaser at the price and on
the conditions submitted to you. (2) You may not
sell goqds by auction without an auctioneer’s license.
J.M.G.: (1) The usual hire-purchase agreement
provides for the owner retaking possession of the
articles where default in payment is made. (2)
and (3) A prosecution might lie, but you should not
launch it without consulting a solicitor... .J.D.:
Parcels must not exceed five cubic feet of measure-
ment, or 1121 b. in weight, or £5O in value. Rate
is 4d. per lb., or 4s. per cubic foot or fraction of
a foot; minimum in each case, 3s F.W.M.:
There are classes in engine-driving and boiler-
management at Tech. College, Ultimo, .Sydney,
Monday and Thursday afternoons and evenings.
Communicate with Mr. Patterson, head-teacher of
engine-driving H.H.: Copy of will lodged for
probate can be obtained on application to Registrar
of Probates, Sydney. Fee for inspection of will,
25., cost of a copy depends on its length....
J.G.: Write Sec., Health Department, Queen-street,
Melbourne C.J.H.: No A.G.: Information can
be got only by writing overseas; try Chief Sec.
LagoS, Nigeria; or Commissioner, Mandated
Territory, Lome, T0g0.... Alpha: It may be a fair
risk at 15 p.c. But anything that offers 15 p.c.
is a gamble... .J. A.H.: (1) and (2) Apply Aero
Club, Barrack House, 16 Barrack-street, Sydney.
(3) Yes.... J.C.: There is no open season in Vic.
for the killing of opossums; only landowners who
can prove that these animals are a nuisance to them
are granted permits to kill a certain number by the
Fisheries and Game Department, Melbourne. Apart
from these holders of permits, any persons found
having skins in their possession or offering them
for sale are liable to be fined. .. .J.J.0.5.: Curr’s
“The Australian Race,” Vol. 11, contains many words
used by abos. in the Cloncurry district W.M.M.:
Post a sample (not a specimen) representative of
the bulk of your deposit to Frank Hambridge, 22
Bridge-street, Sydney A.G.C.: Economical pro-
duction of bonedust is' not an undertaking that can
be recommended to a farmer. The Chemist, Depart-
ment of Agriculture, Melbourne, would supply list
of registered manufacturers... .D.H.: Don’t know of
a market; and doubt whether amateurs can compete
against large manufacturers in that line.—R.H.l.:
(1) Yes, the Larkin Aircraft Supply Co., Melb.,
does, for one; but, like other cos., it has a long
waiting list. (2) Write Sec. Air Board, Defence
Department, Melb., for R.A.A.F. pamphlets
S.L.: Give a first coat of blackboard filler and then two
coats of blackboard slating black. Blackboard filler
is supplied in paste form, and must be reduced to
brushing consistency by adding turpentine... .R.G.K.:
No; to be good in law it should have been executed
as a codicil to the wi11.... J.T.: “A Treatise on
Gold and Silver,” by Crane; “Cyanide Process,”
by Park; “Metallurgy of Gold,” by Eissler —standard
works but pretty expensive... .Norseman: Think
you’d better let the bonuses stand. You get better
immediate cover that way. .. .E.T.G.: Doubt whether
in your circumstances you could pick a worse....
H.W.T.: Advise you to take the whole-of-life policy
for the larger amount... .C.McL.: Smoking is used
as a finish to salt curing. Meat should be hung in
a dense volume of smoke from a clean wood fire
for several hours, until the right appearance is
secured. The smoke may be led through a specially-
constructed chamber in which the meat hangs, its
entrance being screened by wire mesh to exclude
sparks. Good results may be obtained by suspending
joints over a fire in the open in a windless place....
S. : (1) See District Naval Officer, Naval Staff
Office, Port Adelaide. (2) Apply offices of shipping
oos D.P.P.: Hardy’s, Circular Quay; Linde-
man’s and Penfold’s, Q. V. Building, George-street;
Caldwell’s, 74 Pyrmont Bridge-road; and Seppelt’s,
281 Sussex-street —all Sydney... .M.M.: (1) The
emperor moth in the pupa stage is enclosed in a
broadly oval, hard brown cocoon of strong silk;
the silkworm moth, which is reared domestically
on mulberry or lettuce leaves, belongs to another
family. (2) Schools competing in the G.P.S. regatta
are all private academies except Sydney High.
T. : Income should be included in return; depart-
ment will make any necessary adjustment in respect
of such as is tax-free J.A.: (1) Exact date of
construction of New South Head-road, Sydney, is
not on available record; it was sometime in the
’fifties. (2) First Blue Mountains train ran as far
as Wentworth Falls on July 11, 1867... .R.G.: (1)
Yates and Co., 184 Sussex-street, Sydney. (2)
Wormwood seeds cost 6d. per packet. There are
two kinds of shrubs called tree lucefne —Medicago
arborea, the real thing, a yellow-flowering shrub
growing to 10ft., and Cytisus proliferus or Taga-
saste, which is wrongly termed tree lucerne, a
widely grown, white-flowering shrub growing to
15ft. Seeds of the yellow plant cost Is. per ounce
packet; of the other, 9d. per ounce packet....
H. : Average wheat yields, Queensland: 1920,
20.91 bushels; 1921, 18.37; 1922, 12.91 ; 1923,
4.76; 1924, 14.70; 1925, 11.89; 1926, 6.65 ; 1927,
17.59... .R.0.C.: It would involve a laborious
search through old files. Prior to January
I, 1858, marriages could only be dissolved
in England by special Act of Parliament. It was
subsequent to that date that divorce jurisdiction
was conferred on Australian Supreme Courts. .. TDale:
Doubtful whether a very large fig-tree could be
successfully grafted. The dropping of the young
fruit is due to lack of pollination; it might be worth
while approaching the Q’land Department of Agri-
culture to get you the necessary insects (S. Aus.
has them), which ought to be placed on the tr«e
in spring.... (Many others mailed.}


r
Y-r:
*•?
A<%
N»
r** •
m
7#Vs
✓ .* /
4F/'
Kw-
ygjTd?
-T-.I
>s
m
A
>3g
*3J
•ir-^
''* y r :
//
w
wmwiW*
y£
I3fc&.:- ; sgf
;?vv' \ \.\l
rfjr»“
3K
’
•- r
pH
; < ;
y (
1
*L; i. 5 '1?-
K' : ‘
S:ai
/
iS&I
m
m
K
S«
1
-OP-1
TAYLOR.
SEP-VICE
5a
r
r
D
D
c/□>
Australian Timber is seasoned at Holden s by the
best-known system in the World.
TTOLDEN’S insist that all timber
1 1 be air dried for twelve months
before delivery to the Works. After
elimination of any faulty strips, it
is kiln dried under scientifically-con-
trolled temperatures and checked by
laboratory tests to certify the correct-
ness of moisture content.
This thoroughness of treatment
ensures permanently tight - fitting
doors and windows a stability of
structure inherent in all Holden
Bodies.
The emblem of ivorld
quality in motor bodies
HOLDEN’S
MOTOR BODY BUILDERS
ADELAIDE, MELBOURNE, SYD n"d
BRISBANE


Stockmen!
f^Uudc 'tyowiJcUs
ffmcAcc^ltCxlSi
Homebush Yards,
Sydney,
or
Enoggera Yards,
Brisbane.
Auctions in both markets conducted by stock depart-
ment managers. Cattle, sheep, lambs, pigs and calves
all realise top values at the firm’s sales.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
STOCK SALESMEN, LTD
Winchcombe House,
Bridge Street, Sydney,
and
99-101 Eagle Street,
Brisbane.
ThE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £250,000
ALL CLASSES OF INSURANCE EFFECTED.
Probate Disability, Extended Insurance, Non-Forfeiture,
Hospital, Medical and Nurse’s Fees Combined.
Make the event which causes the tax create the cash to pay une tax.
HEAD OFFICE: Hunter House, 26 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
A. MeLEAN, Managing Director. K - v - ROOTH, Secretary.
INQUIRIES INVITED.
D
A
DO
NEW MODEL.
DONALDS
WIRE STRAINER
BEST IN THE WORLD.
Requires no skill —takes an unlimited length of loose
w j re ouick and efficient —does not damage the wire
stretches plain, netted or barb—light, and folds
into small compass—stretches at any part of fence
or at post—works automatically. A vastly-improved
model now available. Classed by experienced fencers as Perfection.
PRICE, 22/6. POSTAGE: N.S.W., 1/6; INTERSTATE, 2/8. SEND FOR FREE CATALOGUE.
DONALD PATENTS LTD.
Obtainable All Stores. GLENMORE ROAD, PADDINGTON, SYDNEY.
Makers of the famous Donalds Woolpresses, Lifting Jacks, etc.
Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CRPARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
PRIZES FOR FARM HINTS.
Thousands of men fail on the land be-
cause they don’t know how to succeed;
many thousands more succeed less than
they should because they lack proper
guidance.
“The Bulletin” wants to encourage
farmers and scientists who know to help
those who don’t know.
With that object it offers two prizes of
£2O and £lO for the most useful contri-
butions to the “Land” pages during the
six months ending June 30 next.
All contributions submitted, whether
published or not, will be considered in
awarding points, and the prizes will go
to the winners of most points.
Points will be awarded for interest and
practical usefulness.
The prizes are additional to the usual
payment for published contributions.
♦
SEED-DRILL DEFECTS.
“Kirk”: “Penfield” (B. 10/4/’29) queries
the principle of drill-planting seed grain close
together in a row with the manure. Others
have raised the same question, and in the
Speck some farmers take the seed spouts off
the drill, and thus let. the seed and manure
broadcast together. If they wish to cover
a large area in a day they lift the hoes
clear of the ground, and thus lighten the
draught; but others consider that the hoes
give a necessary cultivation. A Tas. grower
who has got a return of as much as 71
bushels to the acre from a 16-acre paddock
sown broadcast holds that the modern drill
plants the seed too widely apart, and thus
gives wild oats and weeds a good chance to
grow in between the rows. If the seed-bed
is fine, new drills with pointed hoes are
liable to sow the seed too deeply. Blunt
hoes are preferable. I have sown grass-seed
on stubble land, putting it through the
manure feed with the spouts off, with very
good even results.
HUMUS IN WHEAT LAND.
“Agronom”: Continuous wheat-growing,
even when the land is regularly fallowed,
results in a gradual depletion of the humus
content of the soil. This depletion has
already become a vital factor in S.A., Vie.
and N.S.W. wheat areas. It has been found
that after growing w'heat for 40 years cer-
tain soils have lost as much as 50 p.c. of
their original humus content. This loss is
serious, as it renders soil less fertile and
reduces its ability to manufacture plant
foods from the crude chemical compounds
present. It also interferes with the physical
condition of the soil, making it more diffi-
cult to cultivate, less absorbent of rain-
water and less retentive of moisture. In
addition, it considerably reduces the yield.
Unfortunately for those who seek a remedy,
soils that are low in humus are the ones on
which it is most difficult to grow soil-
improving crops. It has been found that
leguminous crops, whether fed off or ploughed
in, add most humus to the soil. To assist in
the building-up process, use super, liberally
on all crops, including the wheat, so that
there will be a residual effect. Heavy appli-
cations of super, to the wheat crop induce a
vigorous growth of clovers and trefoils in the
stubble. This is fed off by sheep; the resi-
dues and droppings are ploughed in, and
result in the formation of humus.
In districts where field peas can be grown
they greatly assist in rebuilding the, soil, as
also does lucerne. If such crops are grown
systematically they will assist the natural
clovers that have been stimulated by the
super, to maintain and even increase the
amount of humus in the soil.
A CHAMPION WHEAT FARM.
“W.S.J.” : Re the farming methods of A.
W. Parkinson, of Gnowengerup, who won
the championship for a Westralian wheat
crop last season. What he told The Bulle-
tin (10/4/’29) is of course quite right; but
I don’t think he sufficiently stressed the
importance of sheep in his system.
He and other good farmers in his dis-
trict stock very heavily. They sow oats
for sheep, take the animals off when the
spring comes and .strip the oats. The oat
crops here seldom go less than 30 bushels
on land on which the wheat stubbles have
been burnt and the ground put in early
with a liberal dressing of super. The sheep
are put on the stubble, and when it is losing
its feeding value out go the oats and chaff
to the sheep. When these paddocks are
fallowed (and they are fallowed properly —
nothing is half-done) the ground is full of
organic matter through the sheep being run
there so long and fed so well.
The district is favored with a fairly regu-
lar rainfall —about 18 inches. The crops are
put in properly; nothing is left to chance.
A couple of years ago Parkinson won the
State championship for best crop—l think
43 bushels. Had he got the lot it would
have been nearly 50. I have seen this class
of ground put in rough—put in anyhow—
give 12 bushels. There is any amount of
land in this district that will grow 25 to
30 bushels if one goes the right way. The
land is cheap, the roads are good and the
climate splendid.
Incidentally, Parkinson has sold his pro-
perty to one of the leading business men of
the State. He couldn’t resist the price
offered.
POTASSIC FERTILISERS.
“L.N.”: “R.D.A.” (B. 17/4/’29) makes
strenuous efforts to prop up the old bogey
about the unsuitability of muriate of potash.
Muriate does not deplete soil supplies of
lime in greater degree than does sulphate;
Prof. Paterson, of Perth Uni., is responsible
for that statement.
Years ago the Queensland Sugar Experi-
mental Bureau satisfied itself that muriate
was fully as effective as sulphate in the
matter of sugar production, and said so in
its annual report for 1923. In its most
recent report (1928) it mentions having-
tried the comparative crop results from both
salts. It was found that 3001 b. per acre of
muriate exceeded 3001 b. of sulphate by 1.79
tons of cane and .24 tons of sugar per acre,
and 5001 b. per acre of muriate exceeded
5001 b. of sulphate by 1.50 tons of cane and
.20 tons of sugar per acre.
Citrus trials by the Department of Agricul-
ture of N.S.W. at Narara from 1922 to
1925 gave muriate a clear lead over sulphate.
It is far from certain that sulphate gives
a better quality potato than muriate, and
even “R.D.A.” admits the muriate generally
gives the bigger yield. At any rate, the
potato-growers of Germany, Ireland and
Jersey ordinarily use no sulphate for this
purpose, relying purely on the chloride or
muriate form. W. Catton Grasby, author
of “Principles of Australian Agriculture,”
says he has investigated the subject, and
doubts the truth of the theory that sulphate
gives better quality. It is also significant
that the Department of Agriculture in W.A.
has recommended to fruit- and grape-growers
the preferential use of the muriate on the
grounds of economy.
As to wine grapes, Professor Revaz, prin-
cipal of the Montpellier (France) viticul-
tural institution, regarded generally as the
leading station of its kind in the world,
recently told the writer that the use of the
sulphate form was unknown in French viti-
cultural practice.
The American import figures quoted by
“R.D.A.” simply devastate his theories, for
they show that the States use only about 10
per cent, sulphate, the balance being in the
chloride or muriate form.
Muriate is potassically richer than sul-
phate. Muriate of 90 per cent, purity
carries 56.79 per cent. K2O (actual potash)
and sulphate of 90 per cent, purity only
48.60 per cent.
It is absolutely incorrect to say that “Aus-
tralian fertiliser manufacturers use practi-
cally all sulphate when compounding their
fertiliser mixtures.” In Tasmania, for in-
stance, the manufacturers last year used four
tons of muriate to every ton of sulphate for
this purpose, and the manufacturer turning
out the greatest annual tonnage of these mix-
tures in this country (with an output
bably equal to that of all other manufacturers
of mixtures on the mainland combined) is
using much more of muriate than of sulphate
this year.
The Times (London) Trade and Engineer-
ing Supplement, November 26, 1927, quoted
the consumption in Germany of potash in
1925. It included :
Sulphate of potash 2,469 tons
Muriate of potash 94,689 tons
But in addition something like three-
quarters of a million tons of chloride of pot-
ash of lower percentage was used in Ger-
many that year, so that in claiming the
Teuton as a believer in the superiority of
sulphate “R.D.A.” is decidedly unfortunate.
It boils down to this—unit for unit of
K2O (actual potash) the two salts are
equally useful. But the unit in muriate is
so very much cheaper that the world
large prefers it. We have to import potasl ,
but why should we pay more for it than
we need?
OAT SELECTION.
“Minto”: If oats are sown in succession,
early and late varieties, it is possible to
have the feed available for nearly eight
months of the year in most districts in
N. S. Wales. Two primary factors are the
right soil condition (coupled with manure)
and the quality of the seed. For the former,
get the condition as fine as possible, using
super, or bonedust to the extent ot lcwt.
per acre, and for the latter see that the seed,
free from other grain, is plump, heavy and
pure, and there is no need to fear for the
results.
In selecting varieties remember that there
are two main types—those kinds that stool
out well aiid those which consist principally
of one stalk or thereabouts. For gen-
eral, all-round use, especially for grazing,
owing to the strong root system and quick
recovery after having been eaten off, Algerian
is recommended. It suits most climates,
stands dry times well and is a good one to
stool. It’s inclined to take rust in some
parts, but not badly. For cool districts, Tar-
tarian, Heavy Black, Heavy White and
Myall are suitable, as well as Guyra, which,
though subject to rust, makes an excellent
weighty chaff. Three early kinds are Sun-
rise, Mulga and Buddah, and these, with
Myall, are all much the same family or
type. Sunrise is a very .moderate stooler, and
makes excellent green feed or ensilage, but
is not the best liay-maker.
Mulga is one of the best all-round varie-
ties, doing well early and late, and stands
grazing, being also good for hay and grain.
Buddah is rapidly gaining favor every year,
mainly on account of its utility and rust-
resisting features, doing well both inland
and on the coast. Yarran is another good
all-round oat, being a crossbred from the
Algerian. Warrigal (of the Sunrise type)
gives a large white seed, and is a good grain
line. Those growing for racehorse-owners
should select Dun, a late variety which gives
a fine quality feed. Lachlan is a good doer in
inland districts, especially for grain.
PASTURE ANALYSIS AND TOP-
DRESSING.
“Dardadoo”: Much remains to be done by
the many centres equipped for agricultural
research before graziers and stock-owners
are supplied with analyses of pasture grasses
and other fodders. Such a Avork would
certainly be a laborious one, since different
localities would provide different analyses for
the same kind of herbage, and probably the
work would never be complete, as seasonal
changes would be sure to provide differences
again. But it must eventually be attempted,
and even if it proves costly it is likely to
pay big dividends by increasing the value
and output of all kinds of stock and their
products, since the food value of the pasture
is the basis of the value and quality of the
stock.
As far as analyses have gone they show
that Australian pasture grasses have a poor
mineral content, the phosphatie element
especially being so deficient that both the
growth and food value of the grasses is
much below the normal requirements of
stock. Poor growth results in large areas
being required to carry a small number of
beasts, and poor food values, particularly
deficiency of mineral content, cause, directly
or indirectly, a number of diseases of stock.
Osteomalacia, or bone-chewing, is one very
common complaint of cattle entirely due to
this deficiency.
The mineral requirements of stock can of
course be supplied by licks, and, provided
these contain salt, phosphates, lime, some
iodine and iron, as prepared licks usually
do, they furnish the usual solution of the
problem. But the grass requires these
minerals also, both for its own growth and
to render it a satisfying and nutritious feed
for the stock, so that the only correct *way
of supplying the needs of both grass and
stock is to top-dress the pastures with a
mixture that will correct the deficiencies in
the soil. But you must have an analysis of
the grasses before the most suitable top-
dressing can be prescribed.
Top-dressings of super, will supply the
phosphates the grass and stock require, but
-in localities where the rainfall is irregular or
sparse it is no use top-dressing a paddock
unless it is closed against stock until the
rain comes to dissolve it and allow it to be
absorbed by the soil. The amount to be
used per acre requires some judgment. Too
much is better than too little, and experience
in the more favored localities indicates that
not less than scwt. per acre should be used
every two years.
SHEEP SELF-FED ON LINSEED.
“R.D.A.”: The normal summer and early
autumn grazing (natural grasses and
stubbles) on most Australian farms lacks —
even in good seasons—three things essential
to the well-being of sheep, viz., protein, a
sufficiency of proper minerals and laxative-
ness.
The farmer’s problem is not one of find-
ing the means of supplying the above de-
ficiencies —linseed and properly-compounded
and balanced mineral licks will do this, and
are comparatively cheap—but rather of how
to self-feed the above substances to sheep
in flocks and at the same time to control the
daily amount of the expensive linseed eaten
by each sheep.
The following farm-test with about 1200
sheep has proved successful and profitable,
so the method may be useful to others who
are interested in hand-feeding.
The success of this method depended on the
observed fact that a grown sheep on good
but brackish water consumed approximately
jib. ordinary butcher's salt per month in
summer, and owing to its qualities and action
very little, of any, more could be taken by
a sheep. All this suggested the use of salt
in controlling the amount of linseed meat
(not “nuts”) eaten per sheep per day, and
it proved efficient.
In December, 400 store wethers grazing
on good oaten grain-stubble were given in
four wooden troughs a mixture of 1001 b.
Meggitt’s linseed meal, 81b. Vita-lick (min-
eral mixture) in its directed proportion, with
281 b. coarse salt, i.c., 1001 b. meal and 361 b.
salt and minerals. This quantity was for
four days’ self-feeding, as it was desired to
give the sheep loz. a day of Meggitt’s meal.
Gradually the sheep took to it, and then it
was found necessary to add a further 31b.
of salt to each mixing to prevent them finish-
ing the lot before schedule time, i.c. four
days. The lot fattened in five weeks, and
carried a wonderful “bloom” and finish when
sold.
The same method applied to a similar
number of in-lamb ewes showed they heeded
only 291 b. of salt plus 1001 b. meal and 81b.
lick to keep them down to loz. meal a day.
Their grazing was better than that of the
wethers.
A mob of 500 weaners were tried as well,
but they ate it ravenously, though on the
best of dry feed, even when the salt had
reached 421 b. per 1001 b. meal. They did well,
but it was considered prudent to stop for
fear of “salt poisoning.” It is remarkable,
though, that these weaners were on fresh
water. It demonstrates, too, how “protein-
starved” the general run of weaners in Aus-
tralia must be.
As I see it the lessons are: —
(1) Grown sheep can self-feed linseed meal profitably
provided that salt is used as a control which will
vary according to class of sheep, the grazing and
water and personal observation.
(2) Mixing and feeding at one time a four-day
supply gives the greatest practical control.
(3) Chaff, oats, barley will mix satisfactorily with
the linseed-salt mixture, and can be fed through self-
feeders in desired quantities.
(4) Waste is negligible, and the labor and time
needed for hand-feeding reduced 75 p.c. (as com-
pared with “nuts”).
(5) Covered troughs or self-feeders are best, as
light rains form a thin crust on the mixture m
open troughs, though a stick will bleak it up and
the sheep will eat it.
(6) The expense of separate feeders for salt, licks,
grain, chaff, etc., is eliminated.
Finally, Meggitt’s “nuts,” though 10s. a ton
cheaper than the meal, were discarded for
hand-feeding sheep, because (a) they do not
mix; (b) it is necessary to cart them out
daily; (c) experience shows a 15 to 20 p.c.
waste by fouling and “treading in” ; (d) on
sandy or dry, dusty land the sheep eats
as much sand or dirt as linseed —and dung
as well.
What about the agricultural departments
testing this isolated farm method out?
FEED AND TEST THE MILKERS.
“Agronom”: Most dairy-farmers under-
feed their cows. They do not seem to realise
that cows only produce profitable quantities
of milk when they are supplied with more
food than their bare existence requires.
Roughly speaking, a cow requires about 10
tons of fodder a year to supply her own
bodily requirements. In addition to this she
needs about one ton of additional feed for
every 75 gallons of milk produced, so that
if she gave 750 gallons in the year an addi-
tional 10 tons of fodder would be required.
Any skimping in the amount of feed imme-
diately reduces the milk yield. This being
the case, it is obvious that it is better to
feed one cow well rather than, keep two and
underfeed them.
Dows should be fed according to their pro-
duction to get good results. Weigh the milk
every day, and test it once a week, so that
the low producers can be weeded out and the
feed given to the others. Some cows give
just sufficient milk to mislead the owner into
retaining them; these can be detected only
by testing. They should be ruthlessly weeded
out, as they are the sort that render dairy-
ing unprofitable.


Glossy Suppleness
The ideal Abbey Shoe for the lissome
foot. It is close-fitting, yet allows
fullest muscular freedom. Its upper
curves over the instep arch per-
mitting neat, even lacing without
any feeling of strain. The low-cut
sides increase its easy-fitting quali-
ties and eliminate bulging.
ORDER BY POST
Made in pliant black velour calf
that glosses beautifully. Narrow,
medium and wide fittings are avail-
able in both full and half-sizes.
Specify width when ordering, and
ask, also, for a supply of the correct
Abbey Black Polish (6d. per tin).
per
pair
Enlarged catalogue of men’s, ivomen’s and
children’s footwear post free.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street, and 224 Pitt
FPL 124 Street, Sydney.
FOR THAT UNEXPECTED,. VISITOR
CAPTAIN CRAB
SPECIALLY SELECTED
U CLAW MEAT
FREE
coloured weo*»««book rmat* you* gwocc*
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
No disease has caused more loss in sheep than Fluke,
yet for less than one-fifth of a penny per sheep this
can now be cured by the application of Carbon
tetrachloride. This process has been tested by the
Agricultural Departments of various States in Aus-
tralia, and has received their endorsement. It
requires preparation and additions before it can be
applied to the sheep, and these are skilfully carried
out in
SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
1 pint tins ... 4/6 5/- each
1 quart tins . . 6/6 7/- each
POST FREE ON FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins . . 13/6 16/- each
DELIVERED nearest railway station
ON FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY., LTD.,
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Care For Your Hair
With Cuticura Soap
And Cuticura Ointment.
Before shampooing anoint the
scalp with Cuticura Ointment,
letting it remain on over night
when possible. Then shampoo
with a suds of Cuticura Soap and
warm water. Rinse thoroughly.
A clean, healthy scalp means
good hair.
Soap Is.. Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment address:
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.”
iHr* Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
FOR ALL SPORT
BUY
THE SPORTING GLOBE
The Leading Australian Authority with the largest
staff of Sporting Experts and Special Representatives
in all States. The staff includes: —
‘MUSKET” The Turf
‘BAIL” Cricket
Y. S. SHARLAND Football
PAT O’HARA WOOD Tennis
J. J. MAHER Cycling
J. M. DILLON Golf
A. L. DOBBIE Rowing
TOM MORLEY Coursing
MAURIE COLLINS Bowls
H. C. BROOKE Yachting
New South Wales edition availabh
every Thursday, price 3d.
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LAND AND FINANCE COMPANY, LIMITED,
SYDNEY. Also at WAGGA & HENTY, LONDON, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE.
Auction Sales f WOOL, FAT STOCK, GRAIN, SHEEPSKINS,
Throughout the Year 1 HIDES, TALLOW, FURRED SKINS, etc.
Cash Advances on Pastoral Properties and Stock, Wool, Grain and Produce.
Offices: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney. JAMES KTDD, General Manager for Australia.
DO YOU WANT TO EARN MORE MONEY?
We can set you on the road to better money and an assured profession in life. A profession in
which competition is limited and which offers wonderful opportunities if you have any ability
and are persevering. Our tuition gives opportunities to students not to be found elsewhere.
Write for our booklet, telling of positions, salaries and fees, to-day. Start your new career NOW.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
£
£
Illustrated
Catalogue
FREE
George: “Heavy stuff this, Bill.” S*
Bill: “Yes. It’s ‘KANGAROO’—heaviest fence I know.’
“KANGAROO” RINGLOCK FENCING
The
Strongest
Fencing
on
the
Market
INTER STATE AGENTS:
TASMANIA:
W. HART & SONS PTY., LTD.,
Charles Street,
Launceston.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN FARMERS’ CO-OP.
UNION, LTD.,
36 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND:
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL SUPPLIES, LTD.,
Bowen Street, Brisbane.
MANUFACTURED BY
D. & W. CHANDLER, LTD
BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY, VICTORIA.
WHY NOT ADVERTISE?
“L’Fou”: The man on the land is intensely
reticent about his wares; usually waiting for
a buyer to advertise his wants. Apart from
the need for organised big selling, the small
holder might do his own little bit. Give your
farm, however humble, a name, and make the
name a trade asset. A rubber stamp or so
doesn’t cost much, but one can do quite a
lot of advertising with it. Business and
other letters go out from the farmstead every
week. Why not get a rubber stamp, some-
thing like this? —
Greenvale Farm
Utility Black Orpingtons
Seed Oats and Potatoes.
Private sales on the place, free of freight
and commission, are worth fishing for. To
the breeder of stock, publicity means the dif-
ference, in many cases, between selling at
fancy stud prices and common market ones.
If you are on a main road, a gateway notice,
in these mobile days, may lead to the market-
ing of much small stuff.
I have seen farm stuff blindly consigned to
a city agent on a losing market long before
the needs of the nearest township had been
satisfied. Ploney that wouldn’t pay for
freight sold wholesale paid handsomely put
up in handy-sized containers, after the dis-
trict had been spattered with handbills.
FACTORS IN WOOL PRODUCTION.
. “Hatter”: Three years of research work
in the U.S.A. on Range Rambouillet sheep,
in the course of which many thousand
samples of wool were treated by specially-
designed apparatus, appears to have definitely
settled several hitherto doubtful points with
regard to wool production. For instance,
the effect of folds and wrinkles in the skin
was thoroughly investigated, and it was
found that freedom from folds resulted in
greater length of staple, finer fibre and con-
siderably less grease, dirt and density, which
more than compensated for the very slight
reduction in weight. Heavy face covering
or wool blindness was also found a disad-
vantage, as more wool on the face meant less
on the body. This is readily understood, as
there must be greater difficulty in seeking
food when the eyes are partially covered.
The effect that the age of a sheep has upon
wool production was also examined, and
three-year-old ewes were proved to carry the
heaviest fleeces. After that age the length
of staple and quality of wool slightly de-
creased, and moisture, grease and dirt
showed a slight increase. It is interesting
to note, too, that in the breed chosen for
experimental purposes the best mutton and
the best wool corresponded. Ewes that aver-
aged 85 per cent, perfection as regards
mutton when yearlings produced fleeces of
a slightly increased length of staple. This
also is only reasonable, as good feeding is
as essential for wool production as for meat.
ITCH IN HORSES.
“E.11.F.”: Itch is a condition which
causes horses extreme irritation, resulting in
loss of condition. The symptom in some
cases is a mere stamping of the feet, or it
may be shown by a rubbing of any part of
the body against trees, railings, posts, etc.
The trouble in most cases is contagious
and is caused by a parasite. The hair of
the mane and fetlocks should be clipped as
much as possible and the hair taken off
should be burnt. Then groom the horse well
with brushes and rub in with a scrubbing-
brush a solution of washing-soda in warm
water —-one tablespoonful to a quart. Rinse
off and dry, and then rub raw linseed oil
into the parts. Next day scrub the affected
part with a solution of one part of lysol
with 25 parts of hot water and allow to dry
on the coat. Repeat the linseed and lysol
treatments on alternate days. In severe cases
it may be necessary to add a little washing-
soda to the lysol solution. After treatment,
wash the animal. All grooming kit should
be soaked in disinfectant, and railings, etc.,
also disinfected where possible.
Some cases of itch are due to a blood con-
dition, and no external application will cure
that. In such cases use a tonic and alter-
ative powder to improve the digestion and
purify the blood.
IMPACTION IN STOCK.
“E.H.S.” : Impaction is sometimes caused
by stomach weakness, but in most cases
arises out of feeding on old, dry grass with
an imperfect water supply. It is serious,
and an animal that has recovered from a
severe attack usually dies if subjected to a
second. On the first indication of it the
animal should be taken off dry feed and
given linseed, which will have a softening
effect on the accumulated fibrous matter;
and this should be followed by Soz. Epsom
salts, 2oz. tincture of gentian and 4dr.
aloes, given in about five pints of gruel.
Except in the most obstinate cases this usu-
ally effects a cure.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Cost of growing a bushel of wheat under
Vic. Mallee conditions? The country is light
mallee, sandy ridges to red loam flats; rain-
fall 13 in.; there has been settlement from
12 to 20 years, and there are no shoots
and stump picking. Price of land, from
£4 to £6 10s. per acre; average area held,
640 acres. Farmhands get £2 ss. p.w. and
keep; harvest-hands £4 and keep. Distance
from Melbourne, 350 miles; freight, s id. per
bushel.— 9Bs2.
From the information supplied it is impos-
sible to give a definite answer. Obviously the
cost of growing a bushel of wheat would
vary with the yield per acre, the area cropped
and the amount of labor necessary. Cost of
production of wheat on any one farm could
be determined accurately only where care-
ful accounts have been kept. As the con-
ditions on every farm vary, the cost of pro-
duction will vary also. Where wheat-growing
is the main source of revenue an approximate
idea of the cost of production on a Mallee
farm can be obtained by dividing the number
of bushels produced into the total cash out-
lay, plus reasonable interest on the capital
investment and an amount for wages for the
owner. At a recent conference figures sub-
mitted by one Mallee wheat-grower showed
that over the three years 1924-25, ’25-26
and ’26-27 his average cost of production
had been 4s. 81d. a bushel, allowing 5 p.c.
interest on capital investment (land at £lO
per acre) and only £l5O a year for the
owner’s labor. Other estimates put the cost
of production at figures varying between
about 4s. 4d. and 6s. a bushel.
Where in N.S.W. can I learn how to capon-
ise poultry? —9936.
At Ilawkesbury Agricultural College,
Richmond. Arrangements could be made at
the time of the year when birds of a suit-
able age are available to give a demonstra-
tion. This would not be before August or
September.
I want to feed my oaten chaff to stud cattle,
but there is ( too much grain in it. What,
method of sieving (if any ) is best P —9802.
Winnowing would be the only satisfactory
method of reducing the quantity of grain
in the oaten chaff; for this purpose it would
be necessary to use a winnower. But why
not do some mixing?
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Chooky’’: One of the best vegetable lines
for present sowing is beetroot. It does well
in most soils and is a good seller. The pigs
relish the roots and fatten on them. Egyp-
tian Turnip Rooted is one of the best
varieties. To aid quick germination, soak
the seeds for about 12 hours in water,
warm when the seed is immersed. Don’t
sow too deeply, and keep the soil loose, hill-
ing up as the roots grow.
“Bushman”: Having a pony with very
tender feet and hoofs that were inclined to
crack, I tried a new remedy. Blue oil, or
wood-preserving oil, such as is used for tim-
ber painting and fowlyard work, was painted
all over twice daily, for about a fortnight.
The prad gets along a metal road now —with-
out shoes too —and never seems troubled.
I won’t say it’s a certain cure, but it fixed
up this prad’s feet.
“W.M.F.”: Every orchard, especially cit-
rus, should have an area from which earth
can be drawn for resoiling. That area should
be either flooded ground, where the soil is
being constantly renewed, or scrubland, where
leaf-mould will accumulate. No amount of
artificial manure will quite make up for a
deficiency in this respect. Where soil is not
available the next best thing is to plough in
green stuff, any amount of it, peas for pre-
ference. Something of this sort the trees
must have if they are going to thrive as they
should.
“Boronia”: Use an adequate charge of
gelignite in a green stump and, even if the
timber is a refractory burning one, it
becomes an easy victim to a good fire built
about it. The same applies to green logs.
Put charges in at the required lengths, set a
fire going on each of the fractured parts, and
you will have no trouble.
“E.H.” : To get the best results from hens
it is essential not to frighten them. Too
many poultry-farmers “shoo” the birds at
feeding-time if they fly about. It is far
better to try winning the birds’ confidence.
Uneasiness in hens is always reflected when
they are nesting. If it is necessary to be
about the laying-boxes during the day-time,
do not hunt the birds away. White Leg-
horns are the wildest of poultry, and the
person who can tame them may look for-
ward to at least 10 per cent, benefit in the
egg basket.
“A. 8.”: Many writers have suggested the
use of crude kerosene and paraffin when
cleaning up fowl-houses, but Black Leaf 40
(nicotine sulphate) beats them all. Spray
it on the perches and along cracks, and place
a few drops under the birds’ wings, and there
will be no trouble. The nicotine also kills
the microbe which causes scaly leg on old
poultry.
“L’Fou” : About 90 per cent, of paddock-
dams are ugly holes of muddy water with
dusty, bare margins. Trees would add greatly
to their efficiency as well as looks. It is
objected by some that trees suck up water
and break through banks. Planted too close
that may bo the case, but a horseshoe or
angle on the windward side will pay by
reclucing evaporation and making the water
more palatable to stock in hot weather. If
sufficient scrub or timber can be left, silting
up will be minimised. Stock like to lie
down and rest after watering and shelter
and shade in the right place are an asset.
“Cudgewa”: Recently an inquirer asked
about his lack of success in growing turnips,
and was inclined to blame the quality of
his seeds. For years I had had varying luck
with turnips. Parkie Murnane dropped in
one day as I was sowing. “What are you
planting?” says he. “Turnips,” says I.
“Look up your calendar,” says Parkie.
“Why?” says I, and got it. Parkie points
to the date, then looks at the astronomical
notes below. “Full moon to-morrow,” says
he; “plant them near the new moon.” I
did ; it was a good crop, and by following
that method (and of course using ordinary
care) I have never failed with turnips since.
“Tumbe Munda” : Do not feed horses from
boxes in sandy country, for chaff is sure to
fall on the ground and the horses will lick
this up and gather sand with the chaff. If
necessary to feed in such a manner, put a
double handful of pollard in each feed of
chaff; this will gather up the sand in the
horse’s bowel and carry it through safely.
If you find a horse showing symptoms of
sand, mix up some pollard and water thin
enough to go through the drenehing-bit and
drench your horse with about tw r o gallons
of the mixture. This is better than oils,
honey or coffee.
“Reminder”: Rye is a too much neglected
green-feed crop that will on account of its
hardiness grow during the cold months. It
is early maturing, and should be cut young.
Its chief value, however, lies in its drought-
resistance and its ability to produce on poor
land.. Peas and vetches make a valuable
addition.. One cwt. of super, should be
drilled with the seed per acre. The variety
Black Winter will produce early fodder;
Emerald is best for late crops.
“Spike” : Users of stock-brands who com-
mission the local smithy to make their irons
should, if they wish to avoid a possible fine,
see that their irons conform to regulation
sizes. A large stock-brand should be not less
than nor more than 3in. in length, and
where the letters are conjoined they should
be from to 3in. in height and |in.
apart. Don’t put your brand on a horse
already carrying one unless the risks of los-
ing him are grave. You may want to sell him.
and buyers are chary of a much-branded
animal.


m
1
m ■
»
I
1
VJmEm
■■■iiiifli
m
THE
STAGE
Hf:'
m
• iBHMi
.
jam
1:. . '
St*
III*
■ ; -IS :SI : |v . • I
W ,v
J :
Sms..
IS
- ® '■
S ;
SI
' -S-.
.
I
■
B
v 3 ■ Sp
ik .a.w .
■St ■.
■
mm*
r., |
siigjk
S. f i
■
im.
me
iip§
4»
e
X
** c
1
is
/
t
i
fiSSSL.. . .,
:;■ -
« ill
, /;■ - >» i- '
ISlltllln...
-* ‘ i 'Vi.' 1 .
t»® S;S
■MBBBi
C-V; tt-ltpiv::;:-; Vf.p ;■■■■.;'" 1
v>w; 'v* f . : .
.
ii
.
i
t^' ; :tt:''> : ' ; '"'-.' : : :: ;l\tv : t : ' '.S.''t"
, '^HBBBBBB
iWf §11 1 hBSi b s
in
Hi
■
JiHH
B ■«■
■ ■; : . . - ■ ■'
. > CS v ■ v v m
Fash*
ini u
For Bui< i
introduc i
And jus
has stoo)
Buick's f
to-morn
Buick st i
It has ‘
endorse!
And tha si
beauty, u
... .witlsi
ordinary iti
Learn lie
facts of iii
■
■
mm
m
h
....
HI
B—
H
si.. i
■
»
■
I
■ m
■
warn
Si
■
-
mm
ill fS
mm
m,
m
■ <. m
:
■
i®HlilI!li»sI
■
'
■
■
..
lllllfl
■Hi
M
—
:
■EH
■■
1 —■ M
|
i
m
mm
'
i


<s
i—
r
::
HH
■
iiiif ■
lilliitsi
BUICK
HJABLE throngs. .. .sparkling motor-cars.... and stand-
out like the newest mode from Paris. .. .to-day’s Buick!
lioioneer of most worth-while developments in motor-cars, has
uca new vogue. . . .a style which has conquered the world.
us surely as Buick’s creation of the valve-in-head principle
do jr twenty-five years as the supreme engine design, so haa
s t style creation blazed the path that others will follow
rc
st to-day is as individual as other styles are similar.
‘ lething” of which the world has need, for the world has
sec uick by giving it the premier position in fine car sales figures.
ta something” is not only a magnificent new measure of style.
i ury and comfort, but an entirely new order of performance
itl snap, sparkle and thrill vastly different and superior tc
ryitandards.
ne of Buick style. Get behind the wheel and get the
nick performance. Go now to your local dealer.
d
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR.
Buy from Your Local Dealer.
METROPOLITAN DISTRIBUTORS:
Melbourne: Lane’s Motors Pty., Ltd., Exhibition Street. Sydney: Boyd Edkins, Ltd., Phillip Street.
Brisbane: Metropolitan Motors, Ltd., Adelaide Street. Adelaide: Vivian Lewis, Ltd., Franklin Street.
Perth: E. D. Toe Motors, Ltd., Milligan Street.
GENERAL MOTORS (AUSTRALIA) PTY., LTD.
MELBOURNE SYDNEY BRISBANE ADELAIDE PERTH
7
mmmm
mm
-—i
11 . m
Vw
'. m ■' i
■ill
■
•v-- 11111111
Kiiiinp
Prices from
£430


INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company-
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers'
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
federal mutual chambers,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ISR ARCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
i J
mm
>Bl
— K 7^
mao*
> sar.-
i x -
i*J l~
.V’ /
“Its Quality Never Changes.
1/9 per 2oz. Tin.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
W. W. GREENER
GUNS
ARE SURE KILLERS
Wholesale Representatives :
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.
405 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE, Cl*
SMOKE-OH!
POLITICAL PROBLEM.
Sweet Auburn, christened so, presumably,
After that lovely village oversea
Whereof inimitable Goldsmith sang,
What in the world induced you to install
As spokesman in the legislative hall
Such a plain blend of vinegar and gall
As J. T. Lang?
* ¥
It’s time the coal-miners got their march-
in orders.
* *
The Arbitration Court has granted
actresses 3d. a week increase in salary. That
ought to make them perform.
* *
Angora rabbits which are being farmed at
Castle Hill (N.S.W.) each yield £2 worth of
fur a year. Almost as profitable as skinning
goats at Randwick.
* *
“The late Rev. G. S. Kennedy, better known as
‘Woodbine Willie,’ left his wife to his wife.”
—Sydney Sun.
The comp, will point out, no doubt, that
most wives like to be left to themselves now
and again.
* *
Judge Lukin has declared that though the
timber workers are on strike they are still
in the industry. That’s the trouble; they’re
too still.
“Prosecutor paid deposits on 20 blocks of hind and
found all of them worthless.”— Police-court report.
One of the landed gentry in every sense of
the word.
“What Australia badly
needs is a Parliament of
men who can think and not
merely talk,” said a Sydney
cleric. In fact, politicians
who talk about populating
Australia should first fill up
some of their own empty
spaces.
* *
The time a man is hand-
some to his wife is when he
hands some money to her.
* *
According to the Prince,
“things like Segrave’s Golden
Arrow do not grow upon
trees.” But things like it
often climb telegraph poles.
COME-DOWNS.
Bloggs, who travels in
pickles, described himself as
“a plenipotentiary of trade.”
The boy at the grocer’s made
it “A bloke that’s afraid of
the penitentiary.”
Mrs. Smeer boasted over
the back fence that her hus-
band knew the Earl of Jer-
sey. Her vulgar neighbor
said that her (the neigh-
bor’s) husband got drunk
there, too, sometimes; curse
him !
The Y"oung Man: “This is
Heidsieck.”
The Girl: “I’d really
rather have had the ordinary
kind of ginger-beer.”
The new car had cost a fortune, and the
proud owner was praising it. “I suppose
it cost every penny of £200,” prattled the
girl. “Or have you got it on T.P.?”
P. P.
¥ *
Newcastle fruit report:—
Pears; Napoleons, 65.; Packhams, Ss.; Coles, 12s.
One of the few occasions where it pays to
send coles to Newcastle.
¥ ¥
ON EASY-STREET.
A carpet-maker I would be.
How he must smile and smile!
Why, any time he wants to, he
Can go and make a pile.
R.
* *
A woman charged with refusing to pay
her tram-fare gave as her reason the fact
that the conductor had grinned at her. In
her opinion, apparently, none but the grave
deserve the fare.
Australia is a land of opportunity. Any-
how, workers in the coal industry all seem
to get to the top.
¥
“The Drummoyne paint factory which was recently
burnt down was fully insured.”
So the proprietors came through with frying
colors.
* *
HER CRITIC.
“/ would I were a bird!” she sang.
Her top notes were all flat.
His comment caused the girl a pang—
“lf so, I’d call the cat!”
QUITE.
“Pardon me, but d’you think that trunk will be safe
up there?”
“Oh yes, quite — l’ve locked, it!”
The Sage obliges :
You ask for the secret of celibate bliss A mere
matter, my dear sir, of parried eyes.
THE ART OF REFINED FILM
PUBLICITY.
Imparted in Six Simple Lessons.
Lesson No. 1.
In this exercise students, having first been
warned that the adjective “mighty” should
not be used more than 25 times per 100
words, were required to re-write the follow-
ing :
At the Nation Cinema, “Love and Legs,” for one
week only.
Accompanied by A. G. Brown on the organ.
The offering which secured full marks is
appended, and should he studied carefully :
At the World’s Mightiest, Greatest and Most
Exquisitely Regal Motion Picture Palace —the
Incomparable, the Superb, the Mighty “Nation” —•
for One Soul-stirring, Poignant, Mighty, Six-day
Wonder Session only. The most Infatuating, Rap-
turous, Tensely Dramatic, Mighty Super-Thriller—
the Lyric of Ladies, Laughter, Life, Love and Legs
—the Miracle Film with the Mighty Title, “Love
and Legs.”
Super-imposed on this Supreme Scintillating,
Screen Story comes the most Marvellous Maker of
Mighty Majestic Modern Melody—the Celebrated, the
Illustrious, the Mighty Algernon Gustavus Browinski
on the Unchallengeable “Nation’s” colossal, rever-
berating, syncopating and stupendous Wurlitzer.
THE COLLECTOR.
“Do you save stamps?” I asked the maid.
She answered, glumly glancing,
“I do- The wretched job’s my trade —
I live by teaching dancing.”
R'iC.
*
Sydney publicans are getting very careful
about the quality of the liquor they sell as
a result of recent prosecutions. They realise
the necessity of rendering unto Hops the
things that are hops.
* H-
CHANGING TASTES.
Girls like a man with the will, I’m told,
Of an Arab sheik or slaver.
But what they want when they’re getting old
Is just a will —in their favor!
D.
* *
RELATIVE VALUES.
Scene: A Melbourne theatre.
First M.C.C. Barracker: “Who’s the bloke
near Billy Ponsford?”
Second M.C.C. Barracker: “Oh, that’s—
lemme see— You know — Wliasisname —the
Prime Minister.”
F. C. Toone, manager of the English XI,
has become one of the U. Kingdom’s 2000-
and-odd knights. The Tooknighted kingdom !
There is no foundation for the rumor that
Vic. Teachers’ Union declared its secretary
“black” after the decision of the Hign
Court that teaching wasn’t an industry
within the meaning of the Federal Arbitra-
tion Act. He has been Black all his life,
as the registrar of births can prove.
LAND SHARKS.
A beach that is proof against sharks is
desired;
Each council the secret now seeks.
But another sort also is badly required,
Namely, one that is proof against sheiks.
Pic.
TOOK IT REG'LAR.
“Joves, I’m crook, Jones. What do you
usually take the morning after the night
before?”
"Usually a very severe lecture off the wife,
sir!”
“There is nothing’ drably sober about these cami-
soles.”—Drapery advt.
This despite the fact that the things were
made to go on the bust.
* *
EVEN MONEY.
His coat was torn, the buttons were
From their frail moorings forced.
“Does lie,” I mused, “need someone's care,
Or should he be divorced?”
DRAMA IN THE SUBURBS.
What first made me notice him was the
sports coat he was wearing. I liked the
leather buttons, and the natty, expanding
gussets designed to give freedom to the
arms. It took my eye. It was with some
discomfiture that I caught his faint look
of amusement.
Supercilious idiot!
I colored, quite inordinately abashed.
With that instinct for things which' annoy
A TORTOISE OR A HARE?
The Girl (defending herself ): “Him! Oh, nonsense!
You couldn’t be jealous of him.’ He’s too slow
for words!”
THE BOY: “M’yes. But what about deeds?”
us, I never failed to notice him afterwards.
To do the fellow justice, he never looked
anything but smart. There was an air about
him, whether in evening dress or flannels.
Handsome, I suppose one would have called
him, in a florid sort of fashion—his complex-
ion rivalled those of the females invariably
to be seen with him in its peach-like bloom.
“Shifty-looking devil!” I remarked one
day to Verbena-, as we passed them apparelled
for the beach.
“I wouldn’t mind the cloak on the fair
one!”
“Not the sort of. bird one would care
to have knocking around with one’s sister.”
“Don’t be so ridiculous,” said Verbena.
It seemed ridiculous, but that was the way
I felt about the chap. I never passed him
without being conscious of his sneer. I would
be aware of him as I waited for my ’bus. A
morbid antipathy—it was absurd to let it
get hold of me as I did.
“If you’d only look what you’re doing,”
chided Verbena, as I slipped one evening
on the kerb and dropped a newly-purchased
aspidistra.
“For two pins,” I muttered, “I’d make
him grin on the other side of his face!”
How sharply sometimes does fate pick, as
it were, on such occasions and present
them as subjects for remorse! It was but
twenty-four hours later. We were returning
from the pictures, when I noticed a crowd
on the pavement, and, with a prescience
which gave me an odd turn of the stomach,
I elbowed my way to the front.
How it had happened even the policeman
seemed uncertain. They had removed the
others, but there remained —soiled and singu-
larly pathetic, a handbag and parasol. He
lay stiffly across the latter, glassily staring,
bereft of all his spruceness.
“Spoiled ’is beauty!” sniggered a loitering
tramguard.
“O-oli!” gulped Verbena.
I turned awmy, with feelings quite impos-
sible to control. There had been an outbreak
of fire, and in the scramble he. and his frail
companions had been upset in the win-
dow. A fireman’s axe had been dropped
in the neighborhood of his waistcoat
—his horsehair viscera were protruding. And
something had happened to his waxen fea-
tures —the sardonic smirk was all distorted.
Some of it had dripped on to the floor!
FRANK MIDDLEMISS.
ALL RED.
Her cheeks were pink, her lips aglow,
Her hat was ruddy too.
Her hair was Titian (this, I know,
Was due to her shampoo).
I asked her out, whereat: “My oath!
My crimson oath!” she said,
And then her husband met us both,
And he, too, saw bright red!
DOR.
THE GO-GETTER MEETS HIS WATER-
LOO.
He was busy ploughing, so my friend the
go-getter pulled up and waited until he
came back on the return furrow to start
putting it over. He expatiated on the ad-
vantage of investing in lots
on the Submerged Island
and Elevated Mud Flats
Estate, the finest watering-
place in Australia, where
S. M. Bruce, Jock Garden,
Billy Hughes and Archbishop
Mannix had invested in
adjoining lots. The. Man
with the Plough listened
attentively; then,, as the
spate of mendacious. elo-
quence ran dry, he climbed
over the fence and, fixing
my companion with a glit-
tering eye, delivered his mes-
sage: “One-Million-People-
Now-Living-Wiil-Never-Die!
The long-waited day fast
approaches when that .most
glorious company of which I
form part will be translated
to glory, even as Elijah of
old ; so answer me, and sav
what matters it if the land
I plough never bears bread,
or your schemes of money-
making turn to ashes in
your mouth? Oh, man!
even now at this, the
eleventh hour, there is time
for repentance; but the way
for such as you lies only
through the Valley of the
Shadow and the agony of its
passing. Get down on your
knees in the dust of the high-
way and humble your sinful
soul before the Lord and His
chosen instrument,— get
down, I say—or” Here
the go-getter, who had been
sitting like one hypnotised, suddenly pulled
himself together and stepped on it with, such
devastating emphasis that he nearly jolted,
the motive power out of the noblest work ot
Henry Ford. We covered the next mile
inside record time.
B. A.


TUNGSTONE
The only Car Battery in the World
with Four Years’ Guarante.es.
The only Car Battery in the World
tested and certified at the British Government’s Testing Station.
H.R.H. PRINCE OF WALES’ Famous Dictum
“To Adopt, Adapt, Improve ; Sinking Trade Prejudices, Traditional Conservatism ; Have Imagination
and Enterprise; Concentrate on Mass Unit Production, Standardised, Interchangeable and Accessible.
TUNGSTONE’S Chemists' Original Research Work in Combination with Engineers' Inventive Skill have entirely carried out the
striking advice of H.R.H. securing for British Enterprise Master Patents of the World. Also secured British Governments
World’s Record Test Certificate for 96 per cent. Amp. Hour 88 per cent. Watt Hour,
TUNGSTONE “Adopts, Adapts and Improves First Inventors’ Vital Discovery of 1859-81.
Tungstone has Modernized and Revolutionised the World’s Battery Practices after 50 years’ stagnation.
Tungstone has rigidly adhered to Original Inventors’ basic fundamental principles, by making as they did the
Plate and Paste of Pure Lead. The ONLY Metal that Perfectly, Reliably and Efficiently Stores Electricity
by Chemical Conversion —
The Crux of Generous, Reliable, Self-Starter Power and Storage which TUNGSTONE guarantees to give
TUNGSTOHE Chemists Original Research leads
Tungstone Chemists after years of exhaustive Research Work have Definitely and Reliably discovered new
Scientific Chemical Formulae and Original Processes in Accumulator Manufacture. Tungstone s Engineers have
practically applied the newly discovered Chemical principles by dependably incorporating them into the Only
Non-corrosive Acid Resisting All Metal Battery in the World, with Plates entirely made and perfectly Pasted by
Patented Automatic Machinery.
The latest development of Engineering practice to Machine Die Cast under extreme High Pressure is exclusively
used in the complete construction of the Tungstone Battery for all trades and purposes. High-Pressure Machine
Die Casting guarantees perfection of accuracy in measurements, uniformity of weight and tensile strength, longer
life with complete freedom from indiscernible blow holes or mechanical weaknesses—faults that m all other
Batteries constantly create frequent breakdowns and early destruction.
TUNGSTONE’S Practical Discovery is Far-Reaching
Completely, Reliably and Entirely Eliminates all Dangerous First Charging Risks.
Plates’ Future Working Life Considerably Extended.
WITHOUT COST TO PURCHASER. Tungstone Plates when made at the Works, are Fully Formed also given a
Partial First Working Charge. Plates are made chemically and electrically safe. Mechanically secure. Huffiest
possible ratio of Storage Capacity is secured during working life. Can be continuously charged at High Rates,
without internally short circuiting any Plate or forcing the Paste out of the Plate. Majority of present-day
Batteries are purposely undercharged to prevent earlier breakdown of thin made Plates. Tungstone Plates are
thicker, stronger, than any other Makers’ plate, and constructed to be charged at continuous High Rates (which
we recommend) in preference to undercharging. Very generous space is provided in all other Battery Cells
(except Tungstone) for fallen paste, which destroys the majority of all other Batteries.
Tungstone plates, as made, are Tested on Automatic Jogging and Vibrating Machines Electrically operated to
test and prove that Paste cannot be forced out of the Plate. These Machines can be seen working at London
Offices or the Works.
TuUtj Hat Charged in FOUR CONTINUOUS HOURS
The minimum times that Portable Batteries take for First
Charging according to Amp. Hour Capacity is from 24 to 75
continuous hours or longer.
All other Makers' Plates (except Tnngstone)
are dispatched in an Incomplete, Delicate,
Unreliable manufactured condition.
“Passing on" to the Purchaser the many
serious risks of Forming and giving the
First Full Charge.
Also the increased cost of a necessary and exceedingly long slow
first charge which all the World’s Makers insist upon as absolutely
essential. Some are ONLY slightly formed. NOT all completely
formed. NONE are Partially First Charged at the Works as
Tungstone is without cost to the Purchaser.
BRITISH EMPIRE LEAD USED IN ALL TUNGSTONE
CAR AND HOUSE LIGHTING BATTERIES.
No
Bitumen
to
Melt
in
Hot
Climates
F&l
STABLER
M
*
fQ WtR
r.ioi»Sw&
js|as& HQus£^ w,tsBU !^
Tafc
Wfctuev*
m
#m.
of
/s#s&
f*bh
■
No
Sealed
Lids.
Nothing
to
Melt
in
Hot
Climates
SYDNEY: A. J. Dawson, M.1.A.E., Sales and Service, 91 William Street (Tel., FL2084).
BRISBANE: Brisbane Cars and Tractors, Ltd., Wickham Street.
MELBOURNE: Hocking & Hadden Pty., Ltd., 208 Latrobe Street.
C.T.P. 44.


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European n lan.
Dining Service a. la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder
A.
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
r‘. K. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
ukneral Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Fedeial Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers. Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Monday to Friday—
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
From 7.30. Minimum Charge, 10/-
Saturday, Late Gala Night.
Special Table d'HOte Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
From 10 o’clock, Special Supper 12/6; or
a la carte, minimum, 12/6
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 to 5, 4/-. Parties of six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 6.30, 5/-
The Ambassadors New Delightful
Dance Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and Rhythm that makes dancing an
effortless pleasure.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
A ROGUE IN AMBER
BY- J.B. COOPER
Illustrations by-Percy Liixdsay-
Chapter XVII ( continued ).
WHEN Carducci visited Felspar he had
a line of action prepared. It had
been well considered between himself
and Mr. Pinch, but was, of course, to be
subject to modifications. Neither of them
could know how the artist would receive
Carducci, nor whether he suspected that the
Italian had stolen the death certificate.
The Italian’s idea, with which Mr. Pinch
concurred, was to obtain as much money
as he could from Felspar on account of the
picture, and then to introduce the subject
of Felspar’s rumored engagement with Betty
Calcroft. Carducci was very anxious to feel
Felspar’s pulse on that subject, and his
intentions had been accurately foreshadowed
by Mr. Clinton in his talk with Felspar.
As the interview with Felspar had not
gone exactly as Carducci desired, he was not
one to spoil his own
game by precipi-
tancy. Felspar had
consented, as the
Italian thought, to
parley over the hun-
dred pounds, and that
was something gained.
He chuckled in his
mind. He w-ould out-
wit Neigre by flight
when he had Felspar's
money. The delay
was unimportant. As
Felspar truly said,
hundred pounds were
not often found in
Melbourne studios by
the sweepers. Car-
ducci was not alto-
gether out of humor
with his visit.
Felspar was pleased.
He had obtained Car-
ducci’s finger-prints
without awakening
the suspicion of that
cunning Italian, and
he had made an ap-
pointment at which,
if Mr. Clinton thought
fit, the rogue could be
trapped into some
admission, within the
hearing of unseen
auditors, who could
be concealed with the
studio screens. He
was quite jubilant as
he went down to see
Mr. Clinton, whom
he found in his office,
and to whom he re-
lated the latest chap-
ter of the story.
Mr. Clinton told Felspar that since then-
last talk he had seen the French Consul
and he was glad to say the outlook was
better. The Consul, much interested in
the story, had expressed himself as agree-
able to a cable being sent to New Caledonia
to ascertain whether the woman was still
alive.
At a later interview the Consul was able
to lay the woman’s whole convict history
before him. She was married, according
to the dossier, to a convict in New Cale-
donia, that luxury, it appeared, being per-
mitted in the event of the convicts earning
the indulgence by good behavior. As
married liberes they had considerable free-
dom. These two took advantage of it and
escaped from their island prison.
“Escaped!” exclaimed Felspar, who was
following Mr. Clinton’s words with breath-
less interest.
“That’s so; but as it turns out for us
it was the best thing they could have done.
They were caught in a cyclone in a small
boat, and that was an end of them. You
have much to be thankful for.”
Mr. Clinton went on to say that the
Consul at the time had been asked to
advise the police here of the escape. The
necessary particulars, marks of identifica-
tion, finger-prints and so forth, were for-
warded from New Caledonia, but nothing
was ever heard of the man or woman again.
No doubt could be entertained—certainly
it did not exist in the minds of the French
authorities-—as to the fate of the two escap-
ing prisoners. They were drowned in the
cyclone, which had been of exceptional
violence, levelling half the houses on the
islands in its course, and uprooting hundreds
of cocoanut-trees.
“Then when we get the official cable from
New Caledonia confirming what the French
Consul has told you, there is not anything
to stand in the way of my regarding myself
as free to marry again?” asked Felspar
eagerly.
“None whatever!” said Mr. Clinton. “If
we accept the death of the woman as having
occurred as the French authorities state
it did, how can there be? Personally I
would be quite satisfied when such a cable
comes from New Caledonia, and when we
get to the bottom of Carducci’s schemes, and
see how much, or how little, there is in his
“Then Carducci drew his knife. At this moment the Superintendent and two detectives, followed by Clinton, stepped out
of their hiding places,"
theft of the death certificate. I shall be
delighted to find that I’m an old fool and
have merely stirred up a mare’s nest so
far as the Italian is concerned.”
Felspar gripped him warmly by the hand.
Chapter XVIII.
Before the end of the week Mr. Clinton
was called up by the Consul, who said he
had received a cable from Le Directeur de
VAdministration Penitentiaire, Noumea.
When he went to the Consulate he saw
by the expression on the Consul’s face
that the news he had to tell was good.
“It was,” said the official, greeting Clin-
ton cordially,
“somewhat as I
told you. The
two prisoners
escaped in an
open boat from
lie Nou. They were overtaken by a
cyclone. We believe they were lost at sea.”
' Clinton looked relieved. “I’m glad to
hear you say so,” he said.
“Here is a translation of the cable I
received,” observed the Consul, handing the
message to him.
Clinton read: “Lisette Delas Felspar, wife
Francois Neigre. Both prisoners escaped
open boat, overtaken cyclone, supposed
drowned. See cable 9642 A Instructions Aus-
tralian Police.”
“Cable 9642 A,” explained the Consul,
refers to instructions for extradition in the
event of the prisoners reaching Australia.
So far as we know, they did not land. Every
ship arriving from the Pacific was searched,
in every port, from Darwin to Melbourne,
but without result. We regarded our labors
as hopeless from the first, and so they
proved to be. Officially, to France, Lisette’
.Delas Felspar and Frangois Neigre, man and
wife under the penal code, are dead. True,
there have been some curious resurrections
of ‘dead convicts,’ but I don’t think that
the sea will give anything up in this case.
Clinton thanked the Consul and went
back to his office to review the position.
The French authorities were satisfied the
woman was dead, and he believed that in
a British court her death would be “pre-
sumed.”
There was the lapse of time, the circum-
stances under which she disappeared, the
fruitless search. These facts, taken together,
unquestionably pointed to the conclusion
that the woman, along with her convict
husband, was drowned in the cyclone. On
the other hand, Clinton argued with himself,
as against the various grounds for thinking
she was dead, there was a chance that they
had escaped. Did it necessarily follow that,
if the convicts had been picked up by some
passing vessel, they would have come to
Australia? If Felspar’s wife had escaped
to Australia, would she not have sought her
easily-found artist-husband, and blackmailed
him? Such a woman would have no
scruples. There, again, Clinton felt the issue
was complicated. She had made a bigamous
marriage with a French convict. Her con-
vict husband was not likely to let her dis-
cover herself to Felspar, even if she wanted
to. Clinton gave up the puzzle.
He had been in touch with the Criminal
Investigation Department, and the Super-
intendent had hinted that, through the death
certificate and the finger-prints on Felspar’s
painting and the finger-prints on the certi-
ficate, they had made some important dis-
coveries, which, however, could not yet be
told even to him. In the meanwhile there
was the meeting in Felspar’s studio between
Carducci and the artist, whereat Sergeant-
Detective Dockbell, Detective Balshire and
himself were to be present, concealed in
the studio behind the screens and draperies.
The Superintendent, the two detectives
and Clinton met at Felspar’s. A quarter of
an hour had passed when a knock came to
the studio door. Felspar, who was at his
easel, cried out “Come in!” The door
opened, and he saw the Italian, accompanied
by an old man of frowsy appearance whom
he did not know.
“Good day, Mistere Felspar,” said Car-
ducci with an oily smile. “Permit me the
honor to introduce Mistere Pinch. He was
ah! loving the great pictures. I tell him
of you. Ah, he say, ‘Come, I will see the
great Mistere Felspar.’ ”
“So you are fond of pictures, are you,
Mr. Pinch?” said Felspar, noticing how Mr.
Pinch’s feet blos-
somed with bunions
“Permit me,” Fel-
spar continued, tak-
ing the shabby tall
hat, of the lawyer and
placing it on the
table. He indicated
a chair to Pinch, an-
other to. Carducci.
Having got Car-
ducci sitting where he
had designed that he
should sit, and Pinch
in a place he had
selected quickly as
most suitable to allow
the listeners to re-
main undiscovered,
the artist felt more
at ease in his mind.
He knew Carducci
well enough to under-
stand that he had not
brought Pinch along
without an object.
Felspar was, however,
quite prepared. The
trap was set, the de-
tectives were ready;
it was rather a neatly-
arranged affair, so he
was quite happy. He
knew he would come
out on top, and that
Carducci’s fangs were
destined to be drawn
before he went out
through the studio
door. Feeling so, he
did not see anything
to be gained by beat-
ing about the bush.
They sat looking at
each other for a while,
none of them speaking. At last Felspar
asked the Italian: “Does Mr. Pinch know
what you called to see me about?”
“Yes, he is my solicitor, too. He act for
me when I sell my business to Mr. Theo-
polos. Ah, that was a mistake. It was
misfortune to me when you buy those
lemons. I was so simple. I let Marie to
pose. Not wise was that. Troubles begin
then, so many. But no tears the milk give.
Ah no!”
“He is your solicitor, is he?” Felspar
asked, looking at Pinch.
(Continued on page 55.)


a
I
SH
m
DO
9m
w
BRITISH
jHABE'.,.:
V
T
Of
**o r
Cpf4r
° R, TAIh
*%■
©
JS
No. 99 SET. Contains the essentials for a
perfect "‘Valet” shave the razor,
strop and three blades in leather-
ette-covered case
3/-
■ Managing Agents for Australia * —
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
New Zealand Agents:
VAN STAVEREN BROS., Ltd., Auckland, Wellington and Christchurch.
‘‘Slips along smoothly, doesn’t she?”
“Oh, you mean the car.... I was looking
at the poster ’
“That slips along smoothly, too!”
.“You use a Valet yourself?’*
“Never used any other since I started
shaving.”
“Why so faithful?**
“Because it never lets me down. You
see, the blades are —”
“Ah, the blade’s the thing!’*
“ —are stropped to perfection automati-
cally by a device in the razor itself.”
“Sounds good. But I’ve no time in the
mornings.’’
“ Don’t need it! Ten seconds on the strop
without taking anything to pieces gives
you a blade as good as new.”
“Sounds ideal now! Where can I—?**
“Any dealer’s. 3/-, 101- or 22/6 for the
entire set, all with the same principle.”
AVdIIOH V
that will Ever Linget
in Your Memory
■:
we
4
Make your plans now to avoid the
cold and damp of the approaching
winter months. Leave for a delight-
ful stay in Hawaii’s lovely holiday
land, and revel in its glorious tropi-
cal sunshine.
From the moment of your arrival in
Honolulu, when you are greeted
with the welcoming "Aloha” of its
residents, and encircled, as is their
charming custom, with the beauti-
fully-scented and highly decorative
leis, symbolical of the "endless chain
of friendship,” you are transported
into an atmosphere so different, so
enchanting, as to fill one with con-
stant delight—an experience which
will ever linger in your memory.
INCLUSIVE HOLIDAY
TOURS.
Matson-Oceanic Inclusive Tours
to Honolulu, occupying 33 days,
£B5 first class, £65 second class;
54 days, £l4l/10/- first class,
£l2l/10/- second class, including
all transport,, hotel accommodation
and side trips, as per programme.
Steamer Fares only: Excursion £75 first class return, £55 second class return,
issued all the year round, available for 3 months.
Write or call for folder, "A Holiday in Hawaii,” giving detailed particulars.
S.S. SIERRA S.S. SONOMA S.S. VENTURA
SAILING EVERY THIRD SATURDAY.
Hie iiiiiii steamship Gd®
Matsgh Line
12 Bridge Street, Sydney
Local Agents: Mdlwraith McEacharn Ltd., 94-96 William St., Melbourne; 117-119 King
William St., Adelaide; Fremantle, Perth, Albany; Howard Smith Ltd., Brisbane, Townsville
E-29
For Any Travel
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
ď
The accredited Agents of all Steam
Ship Lines. Their expert guidance and
special facilities cost you nothing.
TO EUROPE 1930
Apply now for accommodation, as
berthing plans for all steamers are open.
WINTER TOURS
To Queensland, Bali, Java, Siam,
Japan, Hawaii, Malaya, Sumatra, Indo-
China (Saigon, Pnom-Penh, Angkor).
STEAMER EXCURSIONS
Cairns, South Sea Islands, Fiji, Tahiti,
Honolulu, Ceylon, Java, Japan and
Manila, etc.
COOKS’ TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES
Are the safest and most convenient
means of carrying funds.
Sailing Lists , Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street,
ADELAIDE:
49 Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Fiace.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).


-W
'h*
■s
u
Ji
m
&
m
V/
mwm
'jj j i
VP
1
2®
iT.
*
£>
A
Vi
Va
cs
%
&om 2.
W&/}77-
m
r
i
Rg
S
0
’/ V/JT3S
Two other choice REX
Sandwich Delicacies
REX Luncheon Cheese
in tins and jars
REX Salmonelle
a delicious Fish paste in
dainty glass jars
Your growing children need a wholesome
lunch after the morning’s school work. But
it must be tasty, too, so that they really en-
joy eating it, not throwing any away or hurry-
ing through it to play.
REX Ham Pate is all mild-cured choice REX
Ham, very tasty, and first quality food.
The sandwiches are quickly made, and there
is probably sufficient, too, for your own lunch
or for supper-sandwiches and savouries—no
waste-economical.
In 3Y2 and 2 ounce cans
REX Ham Pate
fe=3 )
Foggitt Jones Pty. Ltd,
(Division of United Provisions Ltd.)
/>
PURE FOODS
Always say REX
Packers of the delicious REX-PYE and Curers of the Choice REX Hams and Bacon


Magnavox
aM JBL DYNAMIC LOUD SPEAKERS
STARTLING NEWS FOR RADIO OWNERS
and those about to buy.
A REVELATION awaits you! You can’t
imagine how inadequate old types of speakers are
until you hear the new Magnavox Dynamic
Speaker. It is acclaimed by the technical press,
musical critics and radio “fans” as “nearest-to-
perfection.”
UNITS ONLY FROM
£7/15/-
CABINET MODELS FROM
£lO
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL RADIO DEALERS
WHOLESALE & RETAIL DISTRIBUTORS IN ALL STATES.
By K.P.M. de Luxe Liners to
JAVA and SUMATRA
T.S.S. NIEUW HOLLAND T.S.S. NIEUW ZEELAND
11,000 Tons
First - class
Return Fares
to Java from
Sydney and
Brisbane:
£Bl
From Melbourne
£B7
/M'S
First-class
Return Fares
to Penang and
Belawan (Sum-
atra) from
Sydney:
£99
From Melbourne
£lO5
Largest, fastest and most luxurious Mail Liners, via the Great
Barrier to Macassar (Celebes), Java, Singapore, Penang and
Belawan Deli (Sumatra) direct.
Head Office jor Australasia:
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION COMPANY
(K.P.M. Line),
255 George Street, Sydney.
M
LEIPZIG TRADE FAIR
GERMANY
AUTUMN FAIR with great Engineering and Building sections —starts August
25, 1929. “If you are alive to business YOU MUST GO!” Last year 185,000
buyers! 10,000 exhibitors! Letters of introduction and all particulars freely
given by authorised representative.
LARS G. BRUNDAHL,
Thor.es: 84006, MW2201. 6 Dailey Street, Sydney.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
An Ideal Winter Home—The Most Sheltered Spot on the Harhor, with Private Beach and
Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service. Spacious Grounds
and Garage Accommodation.
Winter Tariff from 4\ guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines). Management M. E. BURROWS.
Pen and Picture
Shadow Shows
The talkie
portion of
“Land of the
Silver Fox”
(Warner Bros.:
V i t a p h one)
amounts to no-
thing short of a
ghastly crime
committed by persons unknown and unfortu-
nately beyond the reach of extradition. Its
only excuse is that it allows people who had
previously only seen the handsome mug of
Rin-tin-tin to hear the voice of that intelli-
gent vertebrate. Rin’s mental powers are
alleged to be superior to those of an ordinary
human being, if not of a scenario-writer.
This much may be said of his voice—it is
quite as human as those of the principals,
Carroll Nye and Marie du Fronque. These
two worthies hold up the action of what
is otherwise a passable Western picture while
they conduct a dialogue composed entirely of
remarks of the penny-novelette description
in the midst of a blossoming prairie. It
sounds like a love duet between a couple of
megaphones. The silent section of the film
is largely given up to a Gellert-and-his-dog
incident of particularly blithering absurdity.
Discovered with blood on his paws and some
pieces of clothing, Rin is suspected of hav-
ing killed an Indian infant, and his master
prepares to shoot him. As the only way
the dog could have disposed of the body
was by swallowing it, and as the child
weighs about four stone and has only been
missing 10 minutes, his accusers appear to
be too easily satisfied. If the talkie advo-
cates only had this film to support their
case against the legitimate theatre their
chances would be feeble.
A bit off the beaten track is the P.D.C.
picture “Craig’s Wife.” Irene Rich, a char-
acter actress whose ability has hitherto been
frittered away in piffling parts, here has her
chance and dominates the production from
IRENE RICH.
start to finish.
Her job, as
Craig’s wife, is
to dominate; to
b e heartless,
calculating,
unscrupulous,
and finicky
about the tidi-
ness of her
luxurious
home. She
knows all the
tricks of the
wife who con-
trols her hus-
band with an
iron hand in a
silken glove.
She is a born
manager of
other people’s
lives and des-
tinies, and in-
capable of
warm affection
for anyone but
herself. Irene
Rich presents a finished study of a detest-
able woman. It would have been easy, at
first sight, to give the story a conventionally-
happy ending, with Mrs. Craig’s spirit broken
and her husband regained, but she isn’t the
sort that either breaks or bends. At the last,
deserted by her husband, her sister and her
servants, all of whom have rebelled against
her, she shows signs of mental anguish, but
not of contrition. A melodrama that is
sauced by murder and suicide, and a love
story of the stereotyped American brand,
involving a lot of one-arm driving of a
motor-car, are ingredients, but they fail to
spoil the impression made by the central
character. Warner Baxter, as Mrs. Craig’s
husband, shines in a glory that is almost all
reflected.
“The Last Warning” (Universal) is a
cocktail of dumbshow film and talkie and is
of uneven quality. Sometimes the horrors
connected with the haunting of a theatre by
the alleged ghost of John Woodford invoke
a shudder, but more often they provoke
ribald laughter. The mixture of sound and
silence is incongruous. In one place when
a woman opens her mouth to voice her
terror the resultant scream nearly shatters
the audience’s eardrums. When she does
the same thing later and no noise eventu-
ates the same ears ache in expectation. “The
Last Warning” was done here in the flesh
by Dulcie Bland, Louise Lovely, Frank
Bradley, Walter Cornock and other Aus-
tralians and proved a moderate thriller. The
screen version has had lavished on it all
the resources of the movie scientist, plus the
latest photographic dodges from Germany;
but it seldom makes the hair stand to atten-
tion.
Cleverly acted and even more cleverly pro-
duced, the Paramount talkie “Interference”
is chiefly outstanding because in its making
the errors noted in “The Last Warning”
have been avoided. Its merits are restraint
in the making of sound effects and correct
balance of varying sound values. The woman
who shatters the audience’s eardrums is a
commonplace of the talkies. A talkie villain
blows his nose; the sound of a nine-inch
shell landing on concrete comes across. Then
a train rushes past with the roar of a suck-
ing dove. Fathoms of reel wind away in
utter silence, and then suddenly Bedlam
breaks loose. In “Interference” a glass being
placed on a table sounds exactly like that.
Voices coming from the back- or fore-ground
hold their values. A few kisses do not sound
like the horizontal correction of a small
boy. The story also is quite a passable nar-
rative ; made too familiar bv Leon Gordon
to need recapitulation here. William Powell,
one of the best screen villains on earth, plays
the Gordon part of the gay degenerate who,
thought to be dead in the war, returns and
indirectly menaces the happiness of his own
wife _ wbo, thinking him passed out, had
married a leading doctor. Doris Kenyon as
the wife is unsatisfactory, but Clive Brook
as the doctor and Evelyn Brent as the black-
mailing villainess are first-rate. All of them
talk English with an accent that doesn’t
blaze broken-glass tracks through the ear.
Evelyn Brent’s is the only thoroughly pleas-
ing female speaking voice that this Showman
has yet heard on the talkies.
The Palette
N.S.W. SOCIETY OF ARTISTS.
As in all these conglomerate shows, there
is bad work in the Society of Artists’ exhi-
bition of drawings, designs and water-colors
at the David Jones Gallery, Sydney. But
at worst it is not dull; even the artiest of
its arty things represent experiment,
attempts to strike new notes. The object
of the exhibition was to encourage drawing
and design, and oil paintings were barred.
A first prize of £3O for design was awarded
to students of the Sydney Art School
for a large piece called “The Sydney
Screen,” an effective and striking modernist
panorama. Adrian Feint collected the
second prize of £2O for a small piece called
“Magpies”—like the rest of his work in the
show, vivid and carefully drawn. Third
prize, £lO, went to Gwen and Jean Ramsay
for a “Reproduction of Existing Mural
Painting,” a competent piece of design with
some uncompetent drawing in it.
The idea of the competition emanated from
George Lambert, so he no doubt felt obliged
to give an example of how it ought to be
done. An excellent example he made it;
an incomplete sketch for mural decoration
called “Australia,” into which he has grouped
scores of figures and objects illustrative of
the topic. This observer had cause some
months ago to fault a Lambert portrait as
a vulgarity because the artist had grouped
in it a host of objects representative of the
sitter’s delicate tastes; a very ostentatious
display in the circumstances. With “Aus-
tralia,” of course, the idea permits, if it
does not demand, display, and the drawings,
though incomplete, are things that most of
the other exhibitors could study without in-
jury. A “Study for Sculpture” is another
fine Lambert.
Hans Heysen exhibits a couple of choice
charcoals and three delightful water-colors.
“Summer Evening,” by Blamire Young, is
one of the rich things in the show; opulent
coloring and excellent design. Harold Her-
bert has typical bits of coast and one lovely
piece of bush. Norman Carter’s offerings
include a fine sketch for stained glass, and
S. Woodward Smith gets much of the ter-
rible atmosphere of “The Emperor Jones”
into his modernist curtain design and stage
setting for the play. Gwen Barringer’s
bright heap of apples under a tree, Ure
Smith’s countrysides, some alien water-colors
by J. R. Eldershaw, some fruit by A. J.
Mureh, Fred Leist’s view of a girl reading
on a sofa, a clear sea piece by John D.
Moore, some Thea Proctor designs, and a
winter landscape by Daryl Lindsay are other
things worth a second look.
Blamire Young is the P. C. Wren of paint-
ing. His pictures are a Desert Song of
romantic composition and artificial lighting
which stun the sense of reality like a first
night at His Majesty’s. A show of Young’s
is like a season of grand opera devoted to
the early works of Verdi, or a three-ring
circus with the beautiful lady on the snow-
white steed, the head-balancers and the jug-
glers all going it simultaneously. His latest
at the Fine Arts, Melbourne, contains some
astounding feats of manual dexterity and
water-color manipulation. The Bulletin
prefers the diminutive “Autumn Sunshine,”
depicting a simple scene of natural beauty,
to the large “Doom of Hellas.” “The Doom
of Hellas” is priced at 250 guineas, and has
a sky never seen o’er land and sea, though
occasionally occurring in the Ceilings of pro-
gressive pictures-theatres.
G. Rikard Schjelderup, described as a
visiting Norwegian artist and husband of
Natalie Moya, of the “Young Woodley” co.,
has held a show at the Macquarie Galleries,
Sydney. He has painted the Harbor and
other parts of the land from angles never
before dreamt of and with paint The Bulle-
tin did not know existed.
The South Aus. Society of Arts started
the season with a show in its own
gallery. It was a sound but not distin-
guished collection. The chief figure was a
fine portrait by Leslie Wilkie of James
Ashton, father of Will Ashton and instruc-
tor of painters innumerable. The society’s
annual prize for still-life was awarded to
Jessamine Buxton for a fine, if somewhat
hard, study of flowers.
The Inky Way
“0.P.H.”; It was not till he had left it
twice that the Argus learned to appreciate
properly the value of just-dead Fred
Bathurst. It did him only justice when it
said that his work showed not merely an
acute sense of values but a wide knowledge
of financial movements all over the world,
and praised his probity, sense of responsi-
bility and devotion to duty. Two sons are
following law and one is in commerce.
“Half-Moon”: I recently called at the de-
nted Utingu cocoanut-plantation (Cape
York Peninsula), where Jack McLaren—
McNorth” of The Bulletin— had his home
for some years. The residence has fallen
to ruins, amidst which the remains of a
piano on which McLaren entertained me on
many a tropic night are visible. In foggv
London his thoughts must often turn to the
old bungalow beside the restless waters of
Torres Strait. It was on Utingu that he
wrote most of “My Crowded Solitude.”
0.1 «H. . One of the few Inky IVayfarcrs
who have taken to medicine is Luxford
Meagher, formerly of the West Australian
7'l°il u \ s P. ut II P V S o Sh^ lg,( V n Collins-street
(Melb.) . Son of J. S. Meagher, barrister, he
comes of a family of professionals; one brother
is a barrister, another a general med with
a suburban practice, a third an accountant
and a fourth a chemist. After taking his
degree at Melbourne Uni., Luxford Meagher
put in a few years of special study in
Britain and on the Continent.


'
,/J
Itm »
/ ::
nr
*
r ■*
- ■* -7
r r- / ■?
T 4?
■ f '"A
»V
5^
J 8?
-X
+* „ *%*' , x ';*<** *'i •
. y ,j*/''-%r. s \i v
:‘ws^
on
TOP
«*/, PLUME
appotenic
Motor Spirit
What cares an appotenic Plume user for ihe long climb ahead?
The steeper and longer the hill the broader he smiles. He laughs,
as, with an all-conquering surge of power, his car “tops” the crest.
Plume, because of its appotenic quality, burns steadily and evenly,
preventing power from petering out during top-gear climbs.
Now, many a smile has faded, many an unwilling hand has
clutched a gear lever, because a motor spirit was unable to
resist the disruptive influences of the extreme heat and high
compression generated in modern engines. When pistons
labour over the trying length of a steep hill, engine
temperatures and pressures increase enormously ....
then is the time when inferior motor spirits, in despera-
tion, “go off” in uncontrolled combustion. Result —
that audible (“ping ping”) or silent petering-out of
power . . . the sad end of all buoyant hopes of “up
and over in top.”
Remember, tens of thousands of motorists are
daily proving that appotenic Plume gives “added
power”— power with a laugh for the hills in it. Fill
up with Plume and prove the appotenic quality
for yourself.
Q /)A
c oZ s/ Oa V r
'J^ e a nJ°t or . 3 C -,, C °/?1
/>/V
>;
*V
-e e?S>o>
* >4* <*£•
U/ /0,. °^rv/
tk s ?ta*
<kss
sse,
This FREE booklet “The Con-
noisseur’’ will tell you everything
worth knowing about Motor Spirit
quality. Any branch of the
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
will gladly post or hand you
your copy on application.
VACUUM OIL COMPANY P TY
ltd.
9PB


đ
yilil
«7UU
m 3
m
r
SiSMa
A SK for BolsVery Old Holland
Gin in the STONE Bottle,
or Bols Silver Cap Dry Gin in
the Square Glass Bottle with
the Green Label.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” Whisky
MELLOWED BY AGE ALONE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LTD., Redfern, Sydney.
T 2
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Melbourne, in contradistinction to Sydney,
experienced a perfect week-end. Though
100,000 people were reported to be in at-
tendance at the boat-race, Sandown Park
races met with splendid patronage. Fields,
too, were large; the Purse brought out 21
runners, and the Trial Welter had to be
contested in two divisions, 19 lining up for
the first and 22 for the other. Victoria
suffers from a dearth of good horses, and in
that sense the approaching embarkation of
Strephon for England is calamitous.; but ned-
dies which haven’t “won or received £lOO
from any one race on the flat” are plentiful.
Billy Leyshon, the Flemington trainer,
opened up a harrowing afternoon for punters
by taking the Plate with Greener, the Green-
stead four-year-old that secretary D. Canny,
of the Werribee club, acquired last season
from a Tasmanian sportsman. Because
Greener was addicted to running out at the
home turn and (when he chose to keep
straight) puncturing in the last half furlong,
backers put him on the proscribed list. He
has since won twice at long prices in a
comparatively short period. Leyshon finds it
profitable to put apprentices in the saddle.
Boys who claim a 71b. allowance suit some
horses just as well as top-flight pilots.
H'awick, a cast-off from Ted. Fisher’s
stable, came from nearly last to finish second
in Greener’s race. A repetition of this was
witnessed in the Purse. Favoritism w r as en-
trusted to Poistare, by Poitrel from the dam
of Stare, who vanquished Sister Olive in a
V.R.C. Stand Handicap just before that
filly’s Melbourne Cup triumph; Poistare is
owned and trained by Jack James, well-
known in Sydney as a trotting trainer and
reinsman. She began slowly, but put in a
wonderful finishing run and lost by a short
head to Vanese, one of the Melbourne pony
stars. Vanese was returned at 20 to 1. A
stable-follower got 100 to 3.
Patriotic was taken to the course for the
Brush Steeple, but the trainer recommended
T. M. Burke to withdraw him. Patriotic
holds an engagement in the A.J.C. Steeple
next month, and it was feared that further
experience over the, light brush obstacles at
“down-the-line” meetings might cause him to
take risks at Randwiek, where the fences are
wide and thickly packed. Winalone, a
Lanius mare, was favorite for the Steeple-
chase. She held a commanding lead, but
lost ground by swinging out after negotiat-
ing the fence in the straight, and Mungarra
managed to make a dead-heat of it. His rider
protested on the ground that Winalone had
hampered him when being straightened, but
the complaint was dismissed.
The tribulations of punters w6re intensified
when King’s Consort, sent out at 5 to 4,
tailed off for half the journey in the princi-
pal event and finished outside of the money.
The Comedy King mare, formerly held on
lease by R. Ferguson, raced for the first time
in the colors of E. L. and C. Baillieu, who
bred her. R. Howes at all times is rather a
“cold” rider, and his methods on this occa-
sion did not suit King’s Consort. The win-
ner turned up in Pitoota (6 to 1) , who was
purchased from Ben Chaffey by H. E. Con-
nolly a considerable time ago. Neville Perci-
val, the Westralian jockey, is on his right
leg just now; his vigorous horsemanship, and
that only, enabled Pitoota to stall off the
Valais gelding Tullius, on whom Jack Holt
had legged-up his little apprentice, R. Coo-
nerty.
King’s Consort performed no worse than
Canberra, who was backed from 5 to 1 down to
5 to 4 for the first division of the Trial Wel-
ter. Ned O’Dwyer’s Red Dennis gelding
never was in the hunt, victory resting with
Thurles, another 6-to-l shot. In the sec-
ond division, First (third to Princess Betty
and Noogee) was a good thing beaten, but
Arcadius (7 to 1) registered a clean-cut
win in the Jumpers’ Flat, and is destined to
play a prominent role at the Grand National
meeting if he keeps right and goes on improv-
ing. Arcadius had the 1927 Australian
A SPORT, SURELY.
“Hey, what about you bein’ referee, Skeeter?”
“I don’t wanta be referee. Suppose I made a mistake?”
“Well, you can take a ’idin’, can’t yer?"
Hurdle won when he fell at the last flight
of battens.
* : * * *
For Wi-lliamstown on Saturday:—
Bay View Handicap: Mountain Prince;
next, Red Sea.
Beach Welter: Claronga; next, South-
down.
* * * *
The Randwiek races, postponed from
Saturday owing to the course being a quag-
mire, are to be held —weather permitting—
on Thursday. Fancies:—
Hurdle Race: Dr. Grace.
Flying Handicap: Magnetic; next, Casque
d’Or.
Tat't.’s Stakes: Trishna; next, Eillom.
Two-year-old: Voleuse.
,T. Barnes Stakes: Inducement; next,
Octember.
Welter: Blather; next, Valley.
For Moorefield on Saturday:—
Kogarah Stakes: Roley or Olympus.
Flying Handicap: Factor; next, Golden
Grist. _
Moorefield Handicap: Inducement or Tra-
liere. 4 _
Carlton Welter: Lady Leucops or Roma
Oil.
j». ❖ ❖
The Adelaide Cup field of 12 was the
smallest and probably the weakest for many
years. Lalique, the Leger winner, was a
popular fancy, but ran nowhere; the big
local gelding Parallana (Australian Sun —
Malt Sana), helped by Neville Percival, who
is riding in great form, won anyhow from
Santa Thebea (St. Spasa—Thebea) and Glu-
cose; Parallana paid £3 10s. (5 to 2) and
the filly £2 13s. Parallana was bought as a
yearling in Sydney for 200 guineas; he
is owned by the Fimieri brothers, wood mer-
chants in* Adelaide. Modest fellows, they
were so overcome by their success that W. J.
Denny had to respond for them at the cu>
presentation.
“Bouragi”: There is a subtle touch in the
decision of the Papua Turf Club to post-
pone its next meeting until such time as
the tourist traffic from Australia sets in.
Indeed, the date has been definitely fixed
to coincide with the arrival in port of one
of the largest and most popular of the pas-
senger steamers. In order to make sure
that the visitors get full value for their
money, a gymkhana is to be held after the
meeting, so if any of them get away with
any petty cash in their clothes it won’t be
the fault of the Papuans. Of course, the
idea is copied from Australia. Take Syd-
ney Show week for instance, and what the
Harborsiders do to the mob of mugs who
come down ostensibly to look at fat cattle,
but really to contribute to the support of
the starving Tommies at the A.J.C. Easter
meeting.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
A wicked left hook, the property of Pete
Sarron, of U.S.A., functioned with such
deadliness at Melbourne’s Saturday-night
fracas that its owner was assured of victory
early in the first round of his initial Aus-
tralian battle. At the other end of the afore-
said hook Charles Glasson alternately
sprawled, flopped, reclined and sank to the
canvas for varying counts until bewildered
onlookers lost count and marvelled at his
pluck. Pete adopts the tear-away tactics
of Fidel la Barba, and after his hectic time
in the first round Chas. had nothing left
to stem the relentless tide but his indomit-
able grit. After another unmerciful pasting
in the fifth spasm Val Quirk crowned Sarron.
Glasson, at Sst. 9ilb., had Mb. the better
of the weights.
* * * *
Another one-sided contest was staged at
Sydney Stadium on Saturday night, when
the American boxer, Claude Wilson, met a
promising local boy, Tommy Doble. Wilson
recently fought two great fights with Johnny
Leckie in Melbourne, and it was asking too
much of a comparatively new hand to try
conclusions with him. Doble was plucky
enough, and for the first couple of rounds
tried to keep pace with his hard-hitting
opponent, but his blows lacked _ weight.
Heavy rights to the jaw dropped him twice
in the third round, and only frequent clinch-
ing enabled him to weather the fourth. After
being down again in the fifth from a hard
body punch lie was saved by the towel.
Doble weighed Sst. 12Mb.; Wilson, 9st. l^lb.
Footbrawl
Geelong and Collingwood, being the only
teams with clean sheets in the Vic. League
competition, drew the largest crowds —22,000
each—on Saturday. The men from Sleepy
Hollow came to St. Ivilda and played a far
inferior game -. to their previous week’s dis-
play against Melbourne —rugged, forceful and
acrimonious. They got home in the end, by
8 points—GO to St. Iv.’s 57. Per contra, the
Magpies staged a beautifully concerted show,
with accurate passing. Unfortunately they
so overwhelmed South that the game was
a mere farce, and the board showed ’Wood
134 points, South 38 when the burlesque
ended. Of ’Wood’s 19 goals Gordon Coventry
kicked 11. Essendon, on its own ground,
kept level with Richmond up to lemon-time,
but the last quarter found the Dons out,
the Tigers winning handily by 107 points
to 63. Carlton accounted for Hawthorn
with 106 points to 68; and Footscray noted
its superiority over North with 64 points to
53. Melbourne found Fitzroy an improved
team, and only a series of tremendous dashes
in the last’ quarter saved it from disaster;
scores, 107-76.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Though there is a strong feel-
ing in Victorian football circles that sub-
stitutes should be allowed for injured
players, the League has stubbornly refused
to accede, even though such great players
as Syd Coventry are in favor of the change.
There is no doubt that in a “willing” game
like football as played in Melbourne the
temptation to reduce the ranks of the oppo-
sition is a strong one. and often yielded
to. On the other hand, the prospect of a
fresh substitute replacing the injured man
would make the game hardly worth the
candle. Rugby and Soccer in Australia have
long permitted the replacement. It is worth
noting, however, that the British and French
Unions will have none of it, with the result
that Australia and Maoriland will have to
fall in with the European rule when the
British team comes to Australia next year.
The Nineteenth Hole
Walter Hagen won the British open
championship, the most coveted honor in golf,
at Muirfield on Saturday with a score of
292 for the four rounds of 18 holes each,
or a trifle over four strokes per hole over
one of the longest and stiffest courses in the
world. The last two rounds were played in
a howling gale, which adds lustre to the per-
formance. His rounds were 75, 67 (a record
for the event) 75, and 75. This is Hagen’s
fourth victory and the second in succession.
He won first in 1922, was runner-up to the
English player Havers in 1923, and was
first again last year and this. Without
doubt the finest medal player living—he is
not nearly so formidable in matches —the
secret of his success lies in his deadly put-
ting. Farrell and Diegel, fellow-Americans,
were second and third with 298 and 299
respectively. The English player Aliss, who
has been for some years in Germany, headed
the home contingent with 300. Abe Mitchell
tieing his countryman for fourth place. Of
the 17 in the final, 10 were American by birth
or adoption.
(Continued on page J/l.)
“Bumpk.” : The chief feature of this year’s
G.P.S. boatrace in Melbourne was the evi-
dence of an enormous increase of betting on
the result. In clubs, hotels, in the streets
and more or less surreptitiously on the Yarra
banks, business was brisk. One reason, of
course, is that the Head-of-the-liiver con-
test is one of the few events which the punter
can be perfectly certain is not croak. But
how long will it remain so? Nobody would
suggest that there is the faintest hope of
ever getting at the boys. But sundry idiosyn-
crasies peculiar to commercialised sport are
manifesting themselves. Partisans of one
school freely accuse rival academies of en-
couraging rowers in the previous year’s event
to return to their studies for a term so as to
be eligible for the next. The enormous pub-
licity given to the event by the press makes
the winning of it the biggest advertisement a
school can get.
JACK AND JILL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Girls took sides and fought furiously in a brawl
between two mobs of young men after the football
match between Fitzroy and North Melbourne.”
Jack and Jill
Ran up the hill,
But not for pails of water;
Jack looked down
With dreadful frown,
And Jill was primed for slaughter.
Straining teams
To savage screams
Fought in the grim arena;
Jack had set
A dollar bet,
And Jill was down a “deener.”
Jack and Jill
Employed their skill
In words the Censor writes out;
Jack said “Bash
The crimson dash!”
And Jill said “Kick his lights out!”
Strange in truth
To mark that youth,
And hear that maiden gentle;
Jack in rage
Was pre-Stone Age,
And Jill was elemental.
Jack and Jill
Came down the hill,
But n-ot to find a way out;
Jack sought a John
To jump upon,
And Jill a Jane to lay out.
Jack and Jill!
It mayn’t be ill
For any land’s supporters
To find it runs
To fighting sons,
But, oh, those scrapping daughters!
VICTORIA.
MACESS.


Whippet Four Tourings
WILLYS
OVERLAND
ass rz
whippet
FOURS and SIXES
THE STYLE CREATION
o/ MASTER DESIGNERS
WITH its longer bodies, graceful lines, harmonious colors, higher radiator, and
sweeping one-piece full crown mudguards the new Superior Whippet represents
superlative mastery of modern design and is definitely the style authority in its class.
Mechanically as well as artistically, the new Superior Whippet sets its own advanced
standards. A higher compression engine gives increased speed, livelier pick-up and
greater hill-climbing ability, as well as fuel con-
sumption at better than 30 m.p.g. Other important
engineering advantages include silent timing chain,
full force-feed lubrication, aluminium alloy invar-
strut pistons, big four-wheel brakes.
See the new Superior Whippet at your nearest
Willys-Overland dealer’s. He will be glad to
arrange a demonstration.
p*
z£fyr#c
he new su/>e±Co J L
New “Finger-tip Control” —a
single button, in centre of
steering-wheel, starts the
engine, operates the lights
and sounds the born-
WHIPPET FOUR
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LIMITED,
Franklin Street, Adelaide.
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LIMITED, 173 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.
OVERLAND (VIC.) PTY., LIMITED, 117-21
Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
E. G. EAGER & SONS, LIMITED, Breakfast Creek,
Newstead, Brisbane.
ADAMS’ MOTORS, LIMITED, 442 Murray Street,
Perth,
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LIMITED, 53-56
Bathurst Street, Hobart.
NEW SUPERIOR WHIPPET FOURS AND SIXES.


J a
AO
A v
*Bs
•s
8*
*»
Cable, Wireless, Telegraphic Address:
“Austraotef, Sydney.”
Magnificently illustrated booklet free on request.
- " *i '•
The Australia is the centre of
Sydney! Socially, of course,
and having as well a pleasing
proximity to all that counts —
to shops, banks, theatres and
business houses, to depart-
mental and public buildings.
And it has that atmosphere and
that air of completeness which
marks a hotel as worthy of your
patronage.
Footbrawl
Villainous weather handicapped all codes
of football in Sydney on Saturday, but many
of the teams rose superior to the conditions.
In the Rugby Union competition Western
Suburbs showed excellent combination be-
tween forwards and backs to defeat Manly
by 11 (2 tries, a goal and a penalty goal)
to 8 (2 tries and a goal) at S.C.G. Manly,
relying mostly on its solid pack, put up a
great battle and rallied finely at the finish.
The Western backs, with Bartley and King
as the pivots, were far too clever, and on
a dry day would have won by a greater
margin. On the water-covered Coogee Oval
Randwick raced away from Eastern Suburbs,
21-3, handling the wet ball most success-
fully. At Manly North was a bit too good
for the depleted Y.M.C.A., getting home 5-0.
In a forward game Glebe-Balmain's stal-
warts won 11-0 from St. George, while the
University backs were, too smart for the
Police, 23-6.
* # * *
“Y.M.”: Rugby Union followers in N.S.W.
will be relieved to hear that the elusive
Gregor George, whom business kept out of
club football in the beginning of the season,
will now be available for Y.M.C.A. and the
State. He is recognised as the leading ex-
ponent of five-eighth play, and though Bart-
ley, of Western Suburbs, who has also toured
M.L., is running him close this season, his
return will mean much to the State side for
the games against the All Blacks, especially
as his brother-half, Waratah Malcolm, will
probably have to stand down as the result
of a shoulder injury.
* * H= *
“Stand Off” : The opening of the N.S.W.
Rugby Union season was a great success in
spite of the rather disappointing attendance
at the Sydney Cricket Ground, the takings
in practice games and the first round of the
competition showing an increase of over £2OO
on those of the previous season, while the
football in some of the matches was of rare
quality. The inter-State season opens on
Saturday, when the Queenslanders will make
their first appearance in Sydney for .10
years. The personnel of the visitors is
entirely unknown to Sydney, with the excep-
tion of Waratah Tom Lawton, who ranks
as one of the greatest five-eighths in the
game. According- to the Brisbane press, the
code in its first season of revival has already
a strong following, while the form shown by
the new hands has exceeded all expectations.
It is too much to hope they will beat the
formidable Welshmen, but' they should show
as well as did Victoria in Melbourne last year.
Following the Queenslanders and Victoria,
the All Blacks will open at the end of June,
and there should be no tears about attend-
ances by then.
* * * *
“Dee M.”: At least one football club in
M.L. is going to abolish the much-discussed
wing-forward. Mark Nicholls, captain of the
Perone team, after his experience in South
Africa last year, has decided that the 3-2-3
formation is much superior, and his serum
will be packed accordingly.
* * * *
“Yokel” : The revival of the Rugby Union
in the N.S.W. country districts becomes
more marked every season. Five district
Union teams will figure in the country car-
nival beginning in Sydney at the end of
the month. The sides will come from Orange-
Bathurst, Newcastle, Clarence River, New
England and North-West, Monaro being un-
able to line up. After inter-district matches
a combined country team will tackle a metro-
politan side. Last season several country
players won their way into the team which
toured M.L., and this year there should be
opportunities for big games and to spare.
* * # *
In the League fixtures, South Sydney
made a brilliant showing against St. George
on the Sports Ground, though the conditions
favored the Saints’ style of play. Handling
splendidly, the Red and Greens won 17-5,
scoring 5 tries and a goal to a try and goal.
Blair reappeared for South, while Wearing
showed a welcome return to form. Western
Suburbs beat Newtown at Pratten Park,
25-3, in a rough game. At Wentworth Park
Eastern Suburbs drew with Glebe, 5-5, while
North Sydney had an easy win at home over
University, 25-11. South Sydney now stands
out with a clear lead in the competi-
tion,' having scored 10 points to 7 each for
Western Suburbs, Glebe and North Sydney.
* * =K *
“Gate” : The prospect of the coming tour
of the North of England has intensified in-
terest in the Rugby League games in Sydney
this season, and attendances have been very
satisfactory. The effect on the players has
also been marked, leading Sydney lads almost
unanimously turning down the usual lucra-.
five coaching offers from country centres. On
the other hand, country players of all sorts
and conditions have been flocking to Sydney.
Many have come down “on spec.,” and while
they have got games with the grade clubs
have been unable to achieve billets. As a
result some of them are living on the weekly
cut from the gates, and in the case of some
of the less successful clubs there is far
from a fat living in that.
* * * *
“Nark” : The N.S.W. Rugby League, having
found that several of the primary schools
playing Union football had been granted
permission to play on the Sports Ground on
Wednesdays, ordered its officials to have
the screw put on the trustees and the per-
mit cancelled. Apart from the League’s
lease, the deed of grant permits teams from
the P.S.A.A.A., to which the intruders be-
long. to use the ground for mid-week games,
but that doesn’t matter. The League’s excuse
for endeavoring to combat the outrage is
that the youths would injure the tender grass
already touselled by the Saturday matches.
The fact is, as frequenters of the ground
know, the vegetation is in such a backward
condition that a number of sheep are being
pastured on the ground to keep it short
enough for play at the week-ends.
* * *
“Rover”: The N.S.W. Australian Football
League is wroth over the cavalier treatment
accorded it by the Victorian League. In
addition to pinching Several of the best Ma
State players this season—Vic.’s favorite
method of “encouraging” the game in the
weaker States—the promised visit of two
leading Victorian club teams has been sud-
denly cancelled without exciise. Also the
Vic. League announced that the usual inter-
state match was “off.” As the N.S.W. body
had secured the Sydney Cricket. Ground for
the arranged dates, it has been handed a
proper pup, and without any explanation
being offered.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: Norwood football club thinks
it has found a really promising goal-sneak in
James, from Adelaide University, Where he
has just taken a medical degree, after being
easily the best tennis-player among the
IN GOOD ODOR.
SCALY JOE: “Want, ter catch fish, do yer? Well, I’m alwuz in touch with ’em.”
TOURIST (sniffing): “Yes, I’ve gathered that already.’
students for the past year or two. Isn’t it
most unusual for one man to be really pro-
minent in both those games?
The Watermen
Xavier won the Victorian G.P.S. Head, of
the River championship on the Yarra on
Saturday, an immense crowd looking on.
After a stiff race, in which they were chal-
lenged throughout by Scotch College, the
winners came home by three-quarters of a
length, with Grammar, the only other com-
petitor in the final, well back. _ The time, for
the mile was smin. 6sec. This is Xavier’s
second win, th'e first since the school entered
for the race having been last year’s. Geelong,
whose old boys have been figuring so pro-
minently in recent Oxford and Cambridge
eights, was knocked out in the mid-week
qualifying heats.
Hi
“Shrewsbury” : Having won every . Aus-
tralian rowing title for which it was eligible,
the Mosman club crew, returning from its
victory in the King’s Cup in Perth, will be
practically disbanded. H. L. Callaghan, one
of the best strokes N.S.W. has seen since
Roger Fitzhardinge, is retiring from the
game, and brother Cyril is following suit.
Others mentioned as dropping out are lan
Evans, Otto Plafflin and J. Vindin. That
means building up an entirely new crew for
next season, which makes it look as if the
club’s long trot of victory in N.S.W. and
Australian rowing has been checked, for a
time at least. ,
}{C ❖ 3 s
“Swan” : The Australian Rowing Council,
which met at Perth recently, considered the
matter of the £5OO gold cup presented by a
Philadelphian rowing enthusiast as a trophy
for the world’s amateur sculling champion-
ship. The cup was taken to Amsterdam by
the donor, who then presented it to Pearce
after his win. The Philadelphians desire
that he should visit their city this year to
defend it against challengers, though the
original proviso was that it should only be
competed for at the Olympiads. Following
on the English decision, the offer has been
turned down, the Council considering that
the Diamond Sculls at Henley is the recog-
nised world’s championship event for ama-
teur scullers. What Pearce will do with his
mug now is a matter for the future, though
it seems certain he will ma’ke the trip to
America, without troubling his head as to
world’s titles. If so, he should certainly be
sent on to Henley to settle all doubts.
* * * *
“Blade”: The inter-University race for the
Oxford and Cambridge Cup is set down for
June 1, and will be held, after all, on the
Yarra, though the Victorians have been con-
sidering other waters for some months past.
As there will be six crews in action, the
decision to hold the race on the canalised
creek which flows through _ Melbourne _is
hardly a wise one. If there is anything like
a close finish one or more of the boats
is likely to be hampered. There is not
room for more than four crews at a time on
the Yarra course, and even then it is a tight
squeeze.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: The danger of lingering
superfluous on the stage threatens the athlete
as well as the actor. The fact has just
been brought home to Tilden, who has
been incontinently booted out of the Ameri-
can Davis Cup tea in the eliminating trials
by a younger man in Hennessey. His veteran
partner, Hunter, also took the knock at the
hands of the young University player Van
Ryn, while the latter helped Allison, another
comparative juvenile, to beat Tilden and
Hunter, in the four-handed game. In each
instance the victory was clear cut. Lot,
Hennessey, Allison and Van Ryn will play
for America in the local zone matches of the
Davis Cup, though it is stated Tilden and
Hunter may be included at any time up to
12 days before the competition opens.
* * * *
“Seamless”: America, which has been ex-
perimenting for some time with colored tennis
balls, following up a movement which began
in Franco, has decided that a rod hall is
the ideal one for all types of court. It does
not show the green discoloration seen on
balls used on grass, while it retains its color
equally well on asphalt or earth courts,
which speedily convert a white ball into a
nondescript neutral color very difficult to
sight.
Hi *
“Shrewsbury”: This year’s Wimbledon
promises to crack all records in the matter
of gates*. For a long time it has been neces-
sary for members to ballot for seats, there
not being nearly enough x'oom for the lot
of them, a fact which suggests failure to
deliver the goods on the part of the manage-
ment. As for the unfortunate general public,
the individual’s chance of getting a seat is
being estimated at 10 to 1 against. Last
year £35,000 had to be returned to unsuc-
cessful applicants for bookings, and this time
it is expected the amount will be doubled.
What the club does with its accumulated
hoards is not quite clear, but it seems time
it spent some of them in building stands on
the skyscraper principle, since there is no
question of being able to extend the area of
ground already occupied.
The Nineteenth Hole
“The Mcllaggis” : I have been expecting it
ever since I heard that the old Pai’ramatta
(N.S.W.) golf club had blasphemously
named its new course at Blacktown “St.
Andrews.” That was some time ago, and
the news has evidently reached the ear of
the Royal and Antient on the shores of the
North Sea, for at a meeting of the N.S.W.
golf authorities the other day the chairman
tremulously announced that the almost-
unbelievable fact had just been brought to
his notice. When emotion had subsided it
was at once resolved to request the offenders
to purge their offence forthwith and call
their institution something else, lest worse
befall.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Caught napping in M.L.
last year by a weak N.S.W team, the Maori-
landers have been working overtime to get
together a powerful side for the Ivirk-
Windeyer Cup, which this year will be
played for in Melbourne in August. The side
chosen includes Sloan Morpeth, the Domin-
ion’s amateur champion, and the veteran
A. D. S. Duncan, still in the first flight
of M.L. golfers. The others are T. H. Hor-
ton, a terror with the irons, and Dr. Ross,
a sound player of the Scottish school. All
save Morpeth have been seen in action in
Australia.
* * * *
“Minus Plus” : N.S.W. will send a team of
six golfers to Melbourne for the Kirk-Wind-
eyer Cup, from whom four will be selected
on the day of the match. A new departure
is the decision to pay fares and housing
expenses of the team for a period of 10
days. This places the game on the same
level as most other amateur sports, the prac-
tice giving the good but impecunious player
a chance in the big stuff away from home.
The bowlers are about the only remaining
body refusing to countenance the payment
of expenses in such cases. The result is that
inter-State teams are largely confined to the
affluent, as compared with the efficient.
* * * *
“Brassey”: The amateur championships of
N.S.W. open on June 8 with the foursomes,
limited this year to “two or less” handicap men.
The singles begin a week later with a qualify-
ing round of 36 holes limited to players handi-
capped at one stroke or less. The first 16
qualify for the match rounds and finals.
Owing to the handicap restrictions, the
swollen entry of past years has been greatly
cut down.
* * * *
“The Hippogryph”: Golf lost a possible
Hagen through the failure of a belt to func-
tion. One of the leading lights of a coun-
try town decided to take up the royal and
antient game, and presented himself with
others of both sexes at the local pro.’s
school. He discarded his braces for the
lesson, trusting to a belt to sustain both
over- and under-pants. He forgot that the
swing motion of the drive lessened his girth
measure—until he realised that his undies
had slipped their moorings and were drop-
ping lower with every swing. He was soon
effectively knee-haltered, though to outward
appearance normally trouser-clad. His stance
became woeful, but he could not release
himself in mixed company, and he couldn’t
explain. At last a mystified and disgusted
pro. exploded, begging his pupil to abandon
golf because no man could play it while
suffering paralysis of the legs ! Too shamed
again to appear, the learner did abandon
hope. He has now taken to croquet —and
braces always !
(Continued on next page.}
“The Quartermaster,” the £5OO First
Prize Novel, with superb illustrations by
Norman Lindsay, will begin publication
in next week’s “Bulletin.”


0
□
BE*
REG'S^fl
|U)SiPIW
W
*
Ensure efficient running by fitting B.E.S.
SPARK PLUGS. A type for every car, truck,
tractor, cycle, aeroplane and marine engine.
Fully guaranteed. All garages. Price 4/6.
Manufactured by
Australian Spark Plugs Pty., Ltd.
562 Spencer Street, Melbourne, C.I.
’Phones: F 4947, F 5961.
Winchester Rifle, Model 56.
22-Cal. Long Rifle only
Handles well
and
Shoots well.
The Rifle
for Small Game
Price, £5. Post free to all parts of
Australia.
The * Gun House,
COWLES DUNN,
453 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Catalogue B.
PUMP TYPE
100*
SUPER CHARCER
* EFFICIENCY
w WITH ECONOMY
C> SIMPLICITY
Wholesale Agents and Stockists:
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
284 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Car and Cycle
“F.S.”: All the attaches at Melbourne’s
motor show were deeply interested in a Ger-
man car which boasts of no carburetter or
ignition, but fires with the heat of the cylin-
der and runs on crude oil at sd. a gallon.
With the politicians contemplating another
raid on the motorist in the shape of an extra
petrol tax, the last item looked as important
as anything in the exhibition.
* & * *
“Frigidaire”; The severity of the last
winter in Europe has had the curious effect
of reviving interest in the air-cooled motor-
engines, several makes of which appeared in
the early days of motor-cars, only to be
shouldered out by the water-cooled designs.
Something like 75 p.c. of these were put out
of action with burst radiators and similar
casualties during the cold snap, and design-
ers have not been slow to seize the chance.
Several companies have been recently floated
for building air-cooled engines in Britain
alone. One is to manufacture the S.A.R.A.
French car of the type which made its name
in the Le Mans 24-hour race some months
ago. The water-cooling systems have always
been a source of worry with leakages and
clogging, while with the air-cooled engine
cost is reduced and greater lightness attained.
If a practicable “blower” system can be
evolved the revived type should find favor in
countries where water is scarce or foul.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: R. W. Lamb, one of the best
cyclists on road or track Australia has pro-
duced, has arrived in America, where he is
to try his luck on the Yankee tracks. He
is to specialise in pace-following, and should
make a big success of it. Australian riders
have held their own with the cream of the
Americans on the tracks for y< ai>s, and the
best of them hardly boasted such remarkable
performances as stand to “Fatty’s” credit
in this country.
* sis sis *
“Mango”: The starter of a bicycle race
in Ingham (N.Q.) recently adopted a novel
method of getting the competitors off. He
shot one of them with a shotgun. Of course,
it was an accident. He pointed the gun in
the air and pulled the trigger. The cart-
ridge hung fire, and as he lowered it off the
gun went, peppering an Italian competitor
and a countryman who was acting as puslier-
off for him.
sis st» sj» s(s
“Pennyfarthing”; Eight ancient high
bicycles had an outing at Christchurch
(M.L.) last month, when the Pioneer Sports
Club (originally the Pioneer Bicycling Club)
celebrated its 50tli birthday. A race over
two-fifths of a mile was contested. The
youngest rider was 54; the eldest, P. A.
Osborne, the first man to ride a bicycle in
the province, was 72. P. D. Mansell, in
his day—and that was 40 years ago—holder
of the M.L. 24-hours record, won. Man-
sell rode in the last race in Maoriland in
which high bicycles were used- —and the first
in which a “safety” made its appearance.
On that occasion Tom Clarkson, afterwards
holder of many records, bestrode the pygmy.
He knew what it could do, and rode at the
tail of the field till the last lap, jeered at
by the crowd. Then he sprinted, and won
by half a lap.
* * # *
“Ball Race”: Both the amateur and pro-
fessional cycling bodies in N.S.W. have com-
pleted their programmes for the coming
season, and both have decided on the elimina-
tion of comparatively short runs up to 10
miles. In these days of traffic congestion in
Sydney, the final sprint into the city area
is becoming too dangerous. The races will
now be started from a point somewhere out-
side the city limits, with a circular sun of
from 40 to 50 miles, returning to the start-
ing-point. The shortest handicap distance
will be 40 miles, and the longest race the
Sydney-Goulburn ride of 128 miles, in which
both amateurs and professionals will com-
pete on September 14.
Miscellaneous
“Der Jong”; Field-Marshal “Polly”
Plumer, whose dumpy figure and walrus
moustache were familiar to Australians in
two wars, has been elected to the coveted
presidency of the Marylebone C. C. There is
no record of the little chap ever having done
much in the cricket field, but he has been offi-
cially connected with Yorkshire cricket for
years past.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The Board of Control
adhered to its intention of appointing a
treasurer to tour with the next Australian
XI to England, to the infinite disgust of the
Sydney press, which sees the cloven hoof of
Melbourne in the scheme. There will be 15
players, who will be paid £6OO each, with
an expenses allowance of 30s. a week —quite
good going for amateurs. Players must
pledge themselves to accept no engagements
in England within two years of the end of
the tour, and no outsiders will be allowed to
travel with the team. It may be in days to
come that teams going overseas will have
to travel in irons and be locked up when off
the field.
“Copabella”; There are settlers in Gipps-
land who would be glad to see British
stag-hunters transfer their packs to Vic-
toria —at any rate, until the Gipps-
land deer are exterminated. A few °f
the animals, samburs and reds, were
released years ago by some local squireen
in the then virgin forest country. Lost
to sight, they bred freely, remaining lost
until settlers replaced timber with maize,
oats and similar crops, when the deer soon
made themselves manifest. The beasts grow
to pony-size and defy any fence a struggling
cocky can afford to erect, and once in a crop
they play havoc. They can outrun a horse
and are desperately hard to shoot.
* * * *
“Aileron”: An almost unnoted feat which
would have roused Australia five years ago
was the flight from St. Helens (Tas.) to
Melbourne by Messrs. Taylor and Oakes in
a tiny Gypsy Moth. What would have hap-
pened if the ’plane had been forced down is
easy to visualise, with recent aerial happen-
ings in mind.
* * * *
“Bias” : Those turbulent people the bowlers
continue to rage. The latest disturbance is
a scheme for the formation of bowls sub-
districts in N.S.W., which would mean the
withdrawal of a lot of authority from the
State association. It is also claimed that
country clubs get a bad spin in the matter
of representation on the executive, and a
scheme to rectify this is also afoot. There
are over 60 clubs in the country as
against 40 in the metropolitan area,
and the countrymen have to pay affilia-
tion fees to a State body run _by
metropolitan players. This taxation with-
out representation is held to be akin to that
which started the American revolution, and
unless the matter is remedied there may be
a repetition of the Boston incident, with the
metropolitan delegates taking -the place of
the historical tea-chests.
* * * *
“Backwoodsman”: The N.S.W. bowlers
held high holiday last week when the State
championships were played off. There was
great excitement over the singles, quite the
swishest of the titles, and scores of venerable
addicts cowered blue-nosed in the icy wind
at the City Club green and cheered their
fancies on. The final went to .T. Reynolds,
of Ashfield, who won from the St. Georgeite,
W. Collins, at the 32nd end by 31 to 26.
The winner has not previously won a cham-
pionship event, though he has competed in
many, whereas his opponent has won several
in Queensland.
* * M= *
“Ace” : Handball, an Irish version of the
ancient English game of fives, has a small
but devoted following in Australia. An inter-
state series has been an annual happening
for some years, and the support - for the
game has increased to such an extent that an
Australian Handball Council has been
formed. Most of the larger R.C. schools
feature the game, which is an uncommonly
good one, though it possesses some features,
such as a rubber ball, which provoke the
scorn of the fives addict. Why fives, universal
in English schools, has never been introduced
H. L. CALLAGHAN, stroke of the Mosman
( N.S.W. ) eight which won the King’s
Cup for the State in Perth.
by the Great Public Schools of Australia has
always been a mystery to the writer, for
no game can compare with it as a means
of getting and keeping fit for other sports.
* * * >:-•
“Ula”: Whatever the case in N.S.W.,
lacrosse (B. 17/4/’29) promises to have a
great season in Vic. No fewer than 62
teams have entered. Lacrosse gets very little
publicity, and if officials are not alive to
shouting its benefits and recruiting both
players and supporters —seemingly the cause
of the stagnation in N. S. Wales —little pro-
gress can be expected. The seed of interest
needs to be sown in the public and high
schools. This experiment proved successful
in Vic. Melbourne High boasts four house
teams, and the clubs comprise a great many
ex-public-school boys.
* * * *
“Splash”: Though swimming is now off
for the season in Australia, overseas expo-
nents are keeping timekeepers warm. Walter
Laufer, whom Americans consider Weiss-
muller’s successor, recently swam 150 yards
in a 25-yard pool at Chicago in 85 3-ssec.,
only l-ssec. worse than Weissmuller’s world
record. Zorilla, the Argentine, who beat
E. N. GREATOREX, the Waratah forward,
who is likely to catch an Australian
cap against the All Blacks this season.
Charlton and Borg in the 400 metres at
Amsterdam, recently won seven Argentine
championships in one evening, an unparal-
leled feat. Among the girls, the English
Joyce Cooper, touring with an English team
in South Africa, cut out 50 yards at Bulu-
wayo in 27 2-ssec. Fanny Durack’s Aus-
tralian record is 29sec., and even the much-
boomed flappers of to-day haven’t shifted
that.
* * * *
“Hayband”: I know a case in which a
mighty wrestler —Hackenschmidt—was out-
generalled by a mere 10-stoner. It occurred
in Melbourne. Hack’s contract at Rickard’s
Opera House was to place all-comers on
their backs unhurt in GOsec. or forfeit £lO.
In those interesting weeks Vic.’s most power-
ful men advanced on the champion. With
almost disinterested ease he slammed their
shoulders on the floor, as many as a dozen
in an evening. Then one night came a wiry-
looking man with an idea. He leaped in,
grasped H. around the neck and cuddled him
like a spring-steel lattice-work. Of course
this would never throw Hack. But how was
he to undo the grip and get the challenger
on his back in time to save the tenner? At
56sec. he decided to fall on the stranger. This
brought one shoulder on the mat, but before
the desperate Russian could pin the other
the bell rang. Hack, was good-natured about
it, and pleased the audience by hoisting the
winner over his head on one hand.
* * * *
“The Gaffer” ; If anything were needed to
emphasise the ineptitude of the _ Australian
Olympic authorities, it is the discovery by
the new secretary that the council had a
forgotten account in the Commonwealth
Bank which had not been operated on for
five years. However, the new organisation
is entering on a “comprehensive scheme” for
the future control of sport and for the
gingering up of public interest in the Olym-
piads. The only revelation in this regard
is that Australian art may be represented
at the next Olympiad, as in the case of other
nations. Athletes are bad enough to handle,
the deuce knows, but if the artistic tempera-
ment is added to the athletic ditto, I am not
looking for the billet of manager for the Los
Angeles tour.
* * * *
“Shin Guard”; Women’s hockey has
assumed such importance nowadays that the
dears are actually running Empire cham-
pionships. Next year the tourney will take
place in South Africa, and the Australian
overladies of the game are fixing up an inter-
state tourney this season as an aid to the
selection, of the team which will visit Afri-
kanderdom. It is probable that the succeeding
tourney will be held in Australia, while a
separate visit to Maoriland later is also
probable. In some parts of Papua the native
girls play a game closely resembling hockey
with their brothers, and mighty nippy some
of them are. The holding of the Empire
event in that part of the world is, however,
as remote as the locality.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“FY7” : At least one Queensland Govern-
ment enterprise has justified itself —the
police horse-breeding station at Rewan. The
quality of the police nags in McCormack’s
State is unexcelled anywhere. Even in these
days of motor-cars there is a ready sale for
the surplus.
* * * *
“X.L.”: An important adjunct to the
dairying industry in Denmark and Maoriland
is the manufacture of rennet. The N.S.W.
Metropolitan Meat Industry Board, has been
making rennet for years at Homebush with-
out much encouragement from Australian
dairy-factories, which seem to prefer im-
ported preparations. But at the Royal Show
a Morpeth factory, which entered cheese
made with Meat Board rennet, scooped in
three out of six first-prizes, three minor
prizes and a gold medal. There were entries
from all over Australia, and the N. S. Wales
contribution was relatively small.
$ * $ *
“Gelt”: Unless the copra market improves,
ex-Diggers who gave fancy prices for expro-
priated plantations in the Mandated Terri-
tory of New Guinea will have a job to
show a balance on the right side of the
ledger. Previously, if an estate could
produce a ton of copra each month for
every £lOOO of the purchase price, the
owner was satisfied, but now with copra
down £7 a ton and labor expenses up, it’s
going to be a hard cocoanut for many of
them to crack.
* * * *
“D. Empson”: It is estimated that 40,000
cases of Californian oranges arrived at Syd-
ney during the summer. As a result, though
the N.S.W. orange crop was the greatest on
record, growers didn’t market a lot of their
fruit—it wouldn’t have been worth while.
N. S. Wales oranges are not admitted to
California. If any Australian fruit happens
to be aboard a ship going to the U.S.A. it
has to be shot overboard outside the three-
mile limit. Must Australia always be the
mug?
* * * *
“Bert the Carpenter”: Circular-saw
benches which cost up to £3OO a few years
ago can now be bought at almost scrap-
iron prices ; mills are discarding them and
installing Yankee band-saws. The band-saw
needs no saw-doctor; the kerf it takes out
is no thicker than a match, and loss of
power by friction is negligible. They used
to say that our hardwoods were too tough
for it, but I recently witnessed a test in
which a band-saw reduced a tough old red-
gum log to railway sleepers in a few minutes.
* t- * *
“M'esquit” ; The cane-sugar industry is our
worst example of over-regulation. There
are awards between growers and millers,
employers and employees. The grower is
paid for cane on the chemical sugar-content,
so there are chemists to analyse the juice,
computers to calculate the sweetness and
tally-men to keep an account. A tonnage
levy (:id. for this, id. for that) has to be
deducted before the grower gets his net re-
turns —more computing. Bureaux fix, revise
and administer awards, decree how much
cane a man shall grow, what brands he may
or may not use and to which mill he must
send his crop. More rules surround the
miller, the refiner, the marketer. No won-
der travelling business magnates stand aghast
at it all.
“P.X.”; It is a poor little dog-box that
you can’t reach now by service car, even if
it doesn’t own a railway station. The good
old lumbering horse-coach has been all but
pushed out; the N.S.W. railway people could
lately count up only five that joined on to
their trains, and two of them were mere
two-horse shays. Even outside the limits
of the railways in far-west N. S. Wales
and Queensland the horse-coach lias gone;
there are more aeroplanes now. The longest
motor-run you can book is Cobar to Wil-
cannia, and from there you can go on to
Broken Hill. These runs are made with-
out a break; you can do longer broken ones,
of course—there’s a regular Sydney-Brisbane
service, and the other day a curious traveller
in Melbourne got offers of no less than seven
different services to Sydney, running from
£4 to £l2 10s., and ranging from a two-
day trip to a six.
* * * *
“Clarence Cafeteria”: I strolled into the
publicity department of a leading motor firm.
The head of the department—a lady—was
seated at a desk pen in hand, her eyes
looking towards the ceiling but her soul
obviously focussed on some object far be-
yond the confines of the room. In a corner
a violinist was playing the Waltz Dream.
When I asked the boss what was the mean-
ing of this unseemly levity in office hours
she came abruptly out of her trance. “Oh,”
she said briskly, “I’m getting inspiration
for an ad. on the new model!”


toss
7JOW 1
* Insist upon
©<SDirdl<!Dlt!l 9 S
GIN
The Ingredients used in the production of
GORDON'S GIN are of the finest quality
procurable, and contain the greatest per-
centage of those important properties which
are considered by the Medical Profession
to be most beneficial to the human system.
It is very highly rectified and contains no
impurities of any kind ; it is therefore very
easily digested and also aids the digestion
of other beverages with which it is mixed.
The name ** GORDON” guarantees the
very highest standard of quality and abso-
lute purity: a reputation enjoyed and
jealously guarded for over 150 years.
Obtainable
Everywhere
The
Largest Gin
Distillers
in the
World
By Appointment.
Gordons
m*
DRY GIN
POTLILIIW.
»■
buntUD II Übi*«3S “1
TANQUtWAV . GORDO* *C g l J
M : \ fi:4'wjjggj*]
s
/>
/
uhzhand that holds
tk" VENUS"
plans tk World
The first rough suggestion—the skilful
and accurate working out, the sharp
detailed drawings, all the preliminary
planning necessary to the carrying out of
rSSSSS*?"® effort call for the use of VENUS
PENCILS. Whether it be for the building of a
battle-ship or the design of a simple household
?. r ticle, the pencil is the first requirement: the
VENUs the first pencil.
17 Blacklead Degrees 68-9 H sd. each - 4/9 per dozen, Super Copving (Medium & H-rdi ft-;
each - 5/9 per dozen. Venus Copying (Medium & Hard) 4d.' each -3/9dozen. ®
SUNSHINE
CULTIVATING
AND SEEDING
MACHINERY
v
THE “SUNDERCUT” STUMP JUMP
DISC CULTIVATING PLOUGH
10-disc cuts 5 feet.
14-disc cuts 7 feet.
Unequalled for cultivating hard set fallow,
or fallow covered by heavy weed growth,
paddy-melon, stinkwort, thistles, etc.
Does splendid work in virgin Mallee soils.
Levers fitted for team or tractor pull.
...
\
77
THE “SUNTYNE” COMBINED GRAIN
AND FERTILIZER DRILL AND
SPRING TYNE CULTIVATOR.
17 tyne, sows 8 rows, covering 5 ft.
25 tyne, sows 12 rows, covering 73: ft.
29 tyne, sows 14 rows, covering ft.
33 tyne, sows 16 rows, covering 944 t.
41 tyne, sows 20 rows, covering 12ft.
49 tyne, sows 24 rows, covering 14ft.
Cultivates and sows to any desired depth.
Forms a compact seed bed with thoroug Hly
pulverised mulch. Tractor Hitch and
Lever can be fitted when ordered.
Write for descriptive literature, prices
and particulars of extended terms.
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine.
Branches and Agencies:
664 BOURKE STREET WEST, MELBOURNE.
95-97 NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE.
27-39 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY.
Corner MURRAY AND KING STREETS, PERTH.
H. V. McKAY (QUEENSLAND), LTD., STANLEY STREET, SOUTH
BRISBANE.


Under
Royal
.Warrant
Vintage 1920.
ToH.M.
KinfS
George V
CHAMPAGNE
CMdfeiieck
mmtMß
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
champacne^
'-hariesHcidsiec'-
Reims
*"%•» E I s) ,*>**’
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agreists—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
n Alert Attention to Your Neer/5...
-AND THOUGHT UPON YOUR COMPORT
is the policy that has placed the Wentworth in the front
rank of Australian hotels. Efficiently managed under the
personal direction of Mrs. H. Maclurcan, it is the centre
of all smart gatherings and the chosen rendezvous of the
leaders in Society.
They appreciate, from personal experience, the real ser-
vice, the luxurious comfort and excellent cuisine for
which the Wentworth definitely sets a standard of
quality. Wire nr Write for reservations.
<23
7hp cen/re of Queens/onc/s
' c/z s/ingu/sfrec/ Soc/o/ Life.
mote I
BRISBANE
d
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780—10 Lines.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayser
SLIPPER
HEEL
SILK HOSLER[?]
Worsen flocked to the Electrical Exhibi-
tion in the Town Hall last week; and no
wonder, for the slave of the lamp has been
working overtime in the interests of the
modern housekeeper. In a world filled with
movies and motors and manicures and mar-
celles, not to mention the evening paper's
murder mysteries and marriage muddles,
there’s simply no time for housekeeping in
the old-fashioned way, so'the wife or bache-
lor woman pushes in the plug and lets the
electrically-driven vacuum, washer and stove
do the day’s work for her. Among the
exhibits this Letter’s soul melted before the
smiling white-enamel stoves with the thermo-
stat (same thing as thermometer) set in
the oven door. These are cabinet-shaped,
and have the oven on the right-hand and the
boiler on the left, stand about four feet
high (and no back-breaking), their enam-
elled insides satin-smooth so that they can
be cleaned with a wet c}otli. The best of
all of them are fitted with a little clock
which you set for the hour at which you
want your dinner to start cooking. When
the hour—say, three—is recorded the magic
clock switches on the heat, and when the
thermostat records the desired degrees off
goes the current and the stored heat in the
oven continues the good work. Invaluable
for the business woman and the bridge fiend,
and for every other woman during the long
summer, because the temperature of the kit-
chen doesn’t go up more than two degrees
no matter though you cook a full-size Christ-
mas dinner.
Alongside the cookers were the electric
refrigerators more shining whiteness,
breathing of 100 per cent, purity in fruit and
jellies and milky left-overs. They cost about
10d. a week to run, and there’s no bother
about emptying the ice drippings. One of
the nicest things is the small shallow pan
marked off in squares with which each of
them is supplied. You fill this with water,
and it turns into a dozen-or-so crystal-clear
blocks of ice, which you can drop into the
water-pitcher or use to rub on your cheeks
to bring back that schoolgirl complexion.
There are electric washers into which you
drop what would have been a good morn-
ing’s wash, and behold! in fifteen minutes it
is ready for the line. Or you can turn on
the drier, and in a few minutes the gar-
ments are ready for the automatic ironer.
Irons now work up to just below scorching-
point and then switch themselves off; when
they find themselves getting too cool to iron
out the wrinkles they commence heating up
again. Shining breakfast-table make-life-
easies which will toast your bread and grill
your bacon and poach an egg at the same
time proved too tempting, and after the soar-
ing prices of the refrigerators seemed to cost
so little that this Letter earmarked one for
its own. Vacuums of every size and make
voraciously gobbled up every grain of dust
in sight, while the electrically-driven voices
of great singers sweetened the hours. But
of all departments none shows such astound-
ing recent progress as the Radio section.
And within that section nothing shows the
astounding progress of the loud-speakers—
canable these nowadays not only of well-nigh
raising the dead, but of conveying the voice
of the living without any mutilations or
suppressions whatever.
But. alas, there still has to be somebody
to push in the button or set the time-clock.
The State Theatre, which piles its splen-
dors on the site of the old Evening News
office in Market-street, started its career well
by offering £lOOO in art prizes. Altogether
2500 people, artistic and inartistic, found
time to enter. Charles Wheeler, of Victoria,
plucked the most sugared plum. 300 guineas,
with a golden girl making merry with a bowl
of goldfish. It has power and charm, and the
gii’l convinces she’d be quite as nice and
human witli her clothes on as off. Sydney-
girl Mary Edwards won the second prize,
150 guineas, for her Woman. This is hung at
one end of the higher gallery. Its allegory is
rather incoherent, but it is luminous and
decorative, and shared with Mr. Wheeler’s
“Interlude” the staring frenzy of visiting
thousands.
In an unending stream Sydney poured
down the stairs to the basement of the
theatre, where the pictures were housed.
Slim girls, the staff of the still-incomplete
theatre, in peacock-green velvet dresses made
with Medici-like collars, handed you a pro-
gramme for sixpence, while slim young men
in horizon-blue uniforms and white kid
gloves that didn’t always reach the end of
the sleeve took yonr ticket and waved you
onwards. First you went into the lower gal-
lery, and here, although the miles of canvas
on the walls have been judged only the
undercrust in the art pie, there are some
moments of charm. The upper gallery is
decked with 400 other works, among them
the nine prize-winners.
You’ll, get some of the most charming de-
scriptions of the frocks great-grandma wore
before you’ve got far into “The Quarter-
master,” the £5OO prize story which The
Bulletin will begin to print next week.
In a very early chapter there is a picture
of the Quartermaster’s two daughters, Fanny
and Maud, paying an afternoon call at the
Barracks, “the Mecca of Sydney’s youth and
beauty” of 80-odd years ago—it was where
Wynyard-square is in these latter days.
Listen:—
Maud would wear her white organdie, ruffled to
the waist, the little bodice formed by a fichu
fastened with a cameo brooch. Over her shoulders
fell her fine silk shawl with an embossed pattern
which papa had brought her from India when he
was on the Intrepid. She wore a bonnet of
Milan straw, high-crowned and wide-brimmed, her
face framed by its ruches of blond lace and flowers,
broad cherry ribbons fastening it beneath her chin.
One mittened hand held a minute chiffon parasol,
the other her black silk reticule with the bead-
work. As they moved the curious might glimpse
pantalets frilled with fine lace, lace stockings and
a. bright shoe-buckle under the hem of her frock.
Fanny, beside her in yellow muslin, a massive gold
brooch like a shield on her bosom, and a feather
tipped with brown curling round her bonnet, did
not look nearly as strict as she thought she was.
And on the night Fanny’s lover, the mys-
terious Captain Hildebrand, came back from
the whaling and the Quartermaster enter-
tained him, we get this vivid little picture:
Her dress flowed and billowed about her, held
out on starched arid boned petticoats. Tiny pink
rosebuds held the scallops of cream lace ; the bodice
was like a flower holder, a rose-colored cone out of
which her bare shoulders rose. Tire deep bertha
fell over her breast and arms, supplementing the
short, tight sleeves. With arms raised to fix a
cluster of rosebuds in her dark hair, Fanny saw
herself full length and thrilled with surprise and
j°y- , , .
There are pictures like that all through this
fascinating story. *
Ruth Cohen, whose Beethoven expression
May Moore has cleverly caught, is the accom-
pianist, and, with H. S. Osmond, the secre-
tary, of Sydney Uni.’s Musical Society and
Glee Club. Its president is Dr. Keith Barry
and its con-
ductor Faunce
Allman. Latin,
chemistry and
p s y c hology
blend in its
vice-presidents
—Professors
Todd, Fawsitt
and Lovell.
The club is
steadily climb-
ing back to
th e financial
security and
artistic
achievement
from which the
war knocked
it. A yearly
concert and
dance do much
to help the
treasury; and
of this year’s
dance, which was held last night, more will
be told next week.
“All expenses cleared in advance!’’ was
the happy note on which the Lewisham Ball
Committee plunged into last week’s revels in
aid of the great hospital which has minis-
tered to many generations of Sydney’s sick.
This year’s success was held at the Ambas-
sadors, and the dramatic moment of the night
came with the entrance of the chieftainess
of the Wentworth, Sydney’s rival cafe.
Locarno and the League of Nations have not
been in vain ! The two cafes are now nib-
bling the devilled almond of peace together,
and Mrs. Maclurcan put on her best in black
and silver for the occasion. And no sooner
was that excitement overpast than the com-
mittee had to prance into formation to re-
ceive the vice-re’s. Front-rankers in this
ballet were Dr. Bill Mclvay, Dr. Herbert
Marks and his good-looking wife (she was
the ball’s president), the medical H.' J. Daly
couple and Teddy McTiernan.
Sir Dudley wore a light coat of just-
acquired Riverina tan with the usual evening
tailorings, and Lady de Chair wore her
black-opal taffetas from the shoulders of
which silver and green ribbons float. Mrs.
Longfield Lloyd, who came with the Govern-
ment House party, presented an attractive
line of roseate chiffons. Sapphire blue, on
which pink horticulture bloomed, enfolded
Mrs. Herbert Marks; Mrs. Vivers wore
black taffetas, quaintly sprigged, and made
with a big bustle bow ; Mrs. Penfold Hyland’s
chiffons were heavy with flashing crystal;
and Dr. M. J. Slattery squired his lady, who
wore soft blues and silver. Dr. Aileen
Murphy, in emerald green; Mrs. Oscar
Diethelm, in rose; Minister for Health
Arthur and Mrs. Arthur; and the hospitals
fire queen, Mrs. W. Szarka, in regal raiment
of cream and gold, were others notable
among the dancers.
Clothes, such works of art that they were
priced in guineas and introduced by the
names of the artists who created them, took
the floor at the bridge party for the Free
Kindergartens. instance, Daffodil Yel-
low Model by Lanvin” was the announce-
ment as Mrs. Edward Keep blew in like a
breath of spring. “Louise Boulanger Creation
in Lipstick Red” was No. 1 in the evening-
frock section. This was cut or. a modern-
ised princess style, and had just a flash of
diamente at the back of the waist. A sports
suit that might have been designed to keep
Roy de Mestre’s cave netmakers company
was burning with futuristic optimism. Jesse
Tait wore this to advantage.
And on the subject of clothes for dancing,
Sydney quite liked the almost backless bodice
to the beautiful black frock worn by Mrs.
George Yivers at the Lewish%p ball —diag-
nosed as of black chiffon moire on which
bunches of flowers bloomed. The bustle bow
and a skirt that touched the floor at the back
were other feathers in the most advanced
frock seen last week.
Dorothy Helmricli, in a hat that looked
like a jade headpiece from Tutankhamen's
dynasty, ate the oyster of sisterly love with
the Society of Women Writers last week.
But there is no oyster-like silence about
the Sydney singer, and to an interested audi-
ence she told the story of the International
Music Conference held in Salzburg the year
she had the distinction of being asked to
interpret British vocal music. In the Mozart
Memorial Hall the musicians of every nation
sang and played the new music of their
composers. Lack of a stylish frock need
keep no artist away; jumpers and skirts
proved the almost universal wear. When
the artists were not expressing their country
in notes, they were keeping the diaphragm
facile with hops—in the happy, inexpensive
beer-gardens of the Mozart stronghold. After
Dorothy’s story was told Mrs. Liddell did
the right thing in the way of thanksgiving,
and, after the exchange of the weekly com-
plimentary purrs between the sisterhood,
each cat tightened her suspenders and dashed
off intent on lapping all the cream from the
news of the day and leaving only the skim-
milk for her neighbors.
And talking about cats, what were the
sounds that issued from the Arts Club on
an afternoon early In last week? Well, the
members were having a stab at community
singing, and all this Letter can say is that
there’s a lot to be said for the hermit’s life.
Even the president, Mrs. Florence Taylor,
laughed and called a halt at the second
exploding syphon. Mrs. Taylor’s hat, by
the way, deserves mention. It was of black
and of the skull-fitting variety. From above
each ear curved a black feather crescent
which lay flat on each cheeky the whole
achieving a Russian effect. What a pity
that in the Arts Club there were neither
samovars nor vodka to provide the Tolstoi
background! Dorothy Helmricli was the
guest of honor, and received the usual floral
tributes from the afternoon’s hostesses, Ben
Fuller’s lady and Mrs. J.. J. Talbot. Mrs.
Arthur Scrivener, cosy in chin-high squirrel,
was among those who forgot the bitter west-
erly within the cosy walls, and music full
of charm and color was supplied by Hilda
Boyle, Kathleen Roe, Robert Gilbert and
Mrs. Coyle.
Having become potbound, the Lyceum Club
has been transplanted from its old eyrie in
Hunter-street to the fifth floor of what used
to be the Civil Service Stores in Pitt-street.
Mrs. Rose Soley, the club’s founder, a piece
of human thistledown anchored to an armful
of white and yellow chrysanthemums, was
the afternoon’s centre of attraction, and to
her everybody murmured congratulations.
President Mrs. A. G. Thomas, very elegant
in violet-embossed chenille, gave up the con-
test between the hammering in the next room
and the human voice, and briefly declared the
club open. Mrs. Bernard Muscio was the
speaker for the afternoon, and talked on
“Women and Self-expression.” Then every-
body lapped up a dish of tea which Mrs.
Leishman had miraculously conjured from
the chaos of the plumber and the painter, for
the hand of the workman is still heavy upon
the new home.
There is grief and a feeling of great loss
in the passing of brilliant Barbara
Anschau after a life of wonderfully varied
service. A graduate with honors in Econo-
mics at the Uni., she was deeply attached
to the Domestic Science School at Newtown;
and she was equally learned in music, and
had a genius for handling girls’ choirs—she
was conductor, too, of the Combined Western
Districts Choir. Yet she often wondered
whether it was not art she loved better than
either science or music, and she enriched many
schools with pen and chalk drawings—
mostly graphs and such other severely prac-
tical things, it is true. And she still had
time to be an active member of the Public
Schools A.A.A. and a tournament tennis and
lacrosse player. It all seems work for a
lifetime of three score years; in fact, Bar-
bara Anschau was but 34 when she rested.
Forty-eight years from now good workers
in the cause of St. Luke’s will lift out of
a lead-lined casket, buried under the hall
parquet, the hospital’s Jubilee Book. In
this 300 Sydneians have inscribed their
names at a cost of not less than one guinea
apiece. The hospital netted £4OO from the
scheme. Keeping the book company is a
gramophone record of the opening of the new
St. Luke’s, together with a copy of the first
key and a copy of a newspaper with a
record of the great happening. A. M. Hems-
ley, chairman of directors, presided at the
interment, padre C. (1. Lucas gave a bene-
diction, and Matron Taylor solemnly placed
the objects in the casket.
Mary Fraser Thompson, herewith, is one
of the young women of this State who have
determined to add to their province that of
the law and
its profits.
Mary Fraser
(M oi 1 y at
home) has re-
cently obtained
the LL.B. de-
gree, and it is
not surprising
for her to
favor the law
since in the
distant past
her Fraser
forebears were
writers to the
Signet in Scot-
land. A more
recent link
with the six-
and-eiglit busi-
ness is her
father, one of
Bathurst’s old
identities, him-
self a solicitor and a member of one of the
oldest legal families in the State. He is, too,
a valued Bulletin contributor, one of his
hobby subjects being the decentralisation of
University education.
The Arts Club’s new quarters at 220 Pitt-
street will be ready next week, the most
luxurious among the non-residential women’s
clubs in (Sydney. Electric fans, steam-heat-
ing and a ventilation system that gives 10
changes of air an hour will add to the
reasons why Women Leave Home. Out
of the noise rtf Pitt-street, members
pass along a corridor which opens into
a palm court. This has been treated to
a color scheme of tango and green with
rockeries at each end. Each window-sill
looking on to the little court has a window-
box, while gay awnings stretch overhead.
Silver-grey is the note of the restroom, which
is embellished with a frieze of bottle-brush.
This lends itself to the fantastic and conven-
tional, and James Crisp has turned the
border into a work of art. Besides the large
blue-and-gold cardroom that will hold 250,
there’s a small private one that will seat
about 80. Then there’s’ an upstairs reception-
room in Which over 800 can move with ease.
Around the walls the shy gum-blossom
breathes of bushland hours; and a dais,
divided into loges, runs around the room to
the stage. This is for nights when the club
dances.
The It.M.S. Cathay’s third officer, Roy
Beeching, will take to his English home an
Australian bride from this trip. The girl
who became his life-long bos’n was Vera
Valentino Lewis, a daughter of Mrs. Lati-
mer Lewis, of Rose Bay. Canon Howard
Lea tied the knot in St. Mark’s, and the
inevitable toasts were drunk in the bride’s
home.
Clever Florrie Howard, that untiring
worker for united charities, arranged with
the help of Mrs. Maclurcan the Poster
Pageant which was such a feature of the
Black and White Ball at the Wentworth.
A poster set w T hose costumes covered the
changes of a century (1829-1929) was
awarded a prize ; whilst host Holbrook and
the Lustre Hosiery girl each plucked a guer-
don from the night. Another star turn of
the show was the hunt for Cinderella. Every
girl who had bought a silver shoe was a
possible Cinderella; and when Prince Charm-
ing knelt in the middle of the room, beside
him a glittering silver shoe on a white satin
cushion, a procession of dainty girls stepped
forward to try their luck. And Peggy Brown
carried the size 2 shoe and its neighbor home.
The tables were brave with black and white
folly dolls, and at one of the gayest were
the poster judges, Mrs. John Garlick and
Mrs. E. C. Wallace.
“The Quartermaster,” the £5OO First
Prize Novel, with superb illustrations by
Norman Lindsay, will begin publication
in next week’s “Bulletin.”


The iff/AH)
LI NEo/BEAUTY
Shown here is the new brocadeSolitaive
which has the popular side fastening
and an uplift bust section of satin tri-
cot. The diaphragm section is boned,
and light bones extend to the top of the
garment at the back.
A NEW WAY
TO
SLENDEP-
NEJX
Continuity of line from shoulder to
thigh, and curves that are supported
to slender beauty—thus do Gossard
Solitaires accomplish the new silhou-
ette. See them, and- try on your selec-
tions today.
TEE PETITE
RECEIVE
EAVCCR
The unusually small figure receives
special attention in the new Gossards
we are showing. We particularly in-
vite the woman of small figure to see
this new combination by Gossard.
Fancy striped batiste forms the gar-
ment, while satin tricot gives uplift
lines to the bust. Three inches longer
in the back than in the front, it gives
the smooth hipline with greatest ease.
The
Canadian H. W. Gossard
Co., Ltd.
114-120 Castlereagh Street
SYDNEY, N. S. W.
GOSSARDS ARE MADE WITHIN
THE EMPIRE
Mappin Watches have
a world-wide repu-
tation for reliability
and value. The model
■illustrated has a Plati-
num Case set with
Diamonds, Price, £65.
A Catalogue will be
sent upon request.
gi|l|3ipti
Visitors
to London
Mappin & Webb have the distinction of
being one of the oldest Firms of Gold
and Silversmiths, Jewellers, and Dress-
ing Bag Makers in the World, and they
extend a cordial invitation to visitors
from the Commonwealth to call when
in London/
The Oxford Street and Regent Street
Showrooms are within 5 minutes by
taxi from the leading Hotels; the City
Showrooms are quite near St. Paul’s
Cathedral, The Tower of London, Guild-
hall, and opposite The Mansion House.
MAPPMLWEBB
LTD
JEWELLERY-WATCHES • CLOCKS • SILVERWARE
PRINCE’S PLATE • FANCY £ LEATHER GOODS.
: LOKDON SHOWROOMS :
158162,0XF0RD STwiI72.REGENT S?w.i.2,QUEENVICTORIA STe.c a
ď
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
fHE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Rapid Relief
Backache
■
fW/
Good-bye to Rheumatism:
The factor deciding your health, strength and span
of life is your blood. If handicapped by Rheumatism,
Backache, Lumbago, Sciatica, Neuritis, etc., you have
only to drive the uric-acid poisons from the blood
this medically-recommended way to get well again!
Harrison’s Pills form the one remedy for' kidney,
bladder and urinary troubles any qualified medical
man knowing the formula would readily recommend.
Harrison’s Pills do w.hat is claimed for them —
they remove the CAUSE of rheumatic aches, joint
and back pains, “lame spells,” muscular stiffness,
swellings and genito-urinary disorders, and give
such prompt relief as to surprise the taker. Harri-
son’s Pills actually make you feel younger, and they
do not embarrass by discoloring the urine.
Don’t Mistake the Symptoms!
The big danger to-day is uric acid. More lives
crash and come to a premature end through uric
acid or allied disorders than is generally supposed.
Many do not realise their trouble is’ uric acid
and that it may affect the heart. Uric acid is
.difficult to dissolve by ordinary means, yet Harri-
son’s Pills quickly, surely dissolve and banish it
from the system. People report relief from Harri-
son’s Pills when all else has failed them. Middle-
aged men quickly regain activity; so-called “old
timers” soon “come back” with a vigorous fresh-
ness surprising to all who know them; women fast
losing their youthful charm and popularity find
Harrison’s Pills a blessing.
Satisfaction or Money Back!
There is ample evidence that Harrison’s Pills are
most effective for banishing Back Pains; Stiff,
Swollen .Joints; Rheumatism ; Sciatica ; Neuritis;
Constipation ; Lumbago ; Kidney,. Bladder and Genito-
urinary Disorders and Inflammations. So the fol-
lowing guarantee is confidently given to safeguard
those wishing to try this remedy: The price paid
for the first bottle of Harrison’s Pills will be re-
funded to anyone not completely satisfied! In this
way you may test for yourself the remarkable pain-
eliminating and rejuvenating powers of Harrison’s
Pills without risking a penny. And since any good
chemist or store can supply you, in three handy
sizes at 2/-, 3/- and 5/-, why drift along the hateful
road that leads to miserable pain-racked old age?
What a Hospital Nurse Says:—
St. Andrew’s Private Hospital,
Victoria Street, New Lambton.
To Amalgamated Laboratories, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —You might be. interested to know that
the success of Harrison’s Pills in treating Kidney
and Bladder Troubles, Backache, etc., has been such
that 1 have recommended this remedy to scores of
patients, and 1 can testify definitely to their unusual
efficacy and great value for use in these painful
troubles.
( Signed ) Sister B. Piper.
Harrison’s Pills
Remove both Cause AND Symptoms.
um mtmo
3S
0/io b ' 7 ,
r
/
The sooner
you SIMONIZ
Your Car
the Better!' *
DUCO
in its
Beautiful Vivid
Colors Protected
by SIMONIZ
'yHOUSANDS of wise motor-
ists will tell you to
Simoniz your new car so as
to keep the colors from fading
and make the finish last
longer.
Simoniz, easily applied with a
cloth, provides a beautiful sur-
face of protection that lasts for
many months. Simoniz stands
the wear and tear the finish
usually gets, and keeps it bright
and new.
If your car is dulled and
loom looking, Simoniz
Kleener will quickly and
easily restore the appa-
rently lost lustre and
renew all colors.
_ INSIST ON SIMONIZ
—and always drive a good-looking car.
Sold by all. Good Motor Houses, Service Stations and
Hardware Stores- at 2/6 Small Cans; 5/- Large Cans.
In case you cannot obtain locally, see note below.
ANOTHER WONDERFUL
SIMONIZ
PRODUCT—
M
A
D
E
I
N
A
U
s
T
R
A
L
I
A
d
SIMONIZ
PENETRATING
GRAPHITE
OIL
“LOOSENS THE TIGHTEST NUT.”
Simoniz Penetrating Graphite Oil
instantly
DISSOLVES RUST,
LUBRICATES CAR SPRINGS,
STOPS CHASSIS AND BODY
SQUEAKS,
FREES GUMMED MOTOR VALVES,
LOOSENS ALL TIGHT NUTS
AND BOLTS.
Sold in handy Boz. can with long spout. Price 2/6.
IP YOU CANNOT OBTAIN SIMONIZ PRODUCTS
FROM YOUR USUAL DEALER, SEND POSTAL
NOTE TO
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS,
MOTORITE EQUIPMENTS PTY., LTD.,
Carlton, Melbourne.
FREE SAMPLES
OF SIMONIZ AND
KLEENER ON REQUEST.
m
- jjrarag
AM
Apply with a cloth


For 136 years
Rowland’s Macassar Oil has been a favorite
dressing for the hair. Its close resemblance
to the natural oil has caused it to be used
more and more as something better than a
hair dressing. It keeps the hair healthy, and
prevents the encroachment of greyness and
baldness.
m
Of all Chemists,
Stores and Hair-
dressers. Red for
dark hairj golden
for fair or grey
feiilaitcTs
Macassar Oil
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, London, W.C.1.,
ENGLAND. c.t.p.65
Accommodation
160.
Central,
Comfortable,
Convenient,
5 Mts. G.P.O.
Excellent
Cuisine,
Billiards,
Dancing.
ORIENTAL HOTEL
(No License)
KING’S CROSS, SYDNEY.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET.
Daily,
TARIFF:
£3/3/- to
£4/4/-
Weekly,
11/6 to 13/6.
Room & B’fast,
8/6 to 9/6
FL2034
F 3575
“Suburban ”
Afforestation
Every person who has read or has been told
about afforestation —whether he has invested
or not —should send for particulars now of
A.N.Z.I.L. PERPETUAL INCOME AND
THRIFT BONDS.
A gilt-edged investment and an entirely new conception of afforestation offering
IMMEDIATE INTERMEDIATE and FUTURE RETURNS, with the soundest principles of
scientific and properly-conducted planting for profit yet offered.
Afforestation and Flax —Plus Interest and Insurance.
Investigate!—To do so is to INVEST.
AUSTRALIAN & NEW ZEALAND INVESTMENTS, LTD.,
17 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
2*
©
For a husky voice
Delightfully soothing
and refreshing. The
flavour is delicious.
Your Chemist stocks
them —1/- and 1/9
per box.
Allen bur^ys
pastilles!
saa
Glycerine &
'Black Currant
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800[?] [?]
Buckley [?] Nu[?] [?]
[?]
On Saturday Grammar, Wesley and Xavier
fought it out. Of such interest has the Head-
of-thc-River event become that on both sides
of the stream, from Prince’s Bridge to the
starting point, there was packed a solid block
of humanity. The weather was heavenly, and
the scene was bright, groups of barrackers
occupying vantage points, each band with
flags, streamers and balloons of their school
colors flying. The girls, in many cases,
chose their millinery according to their
affiliations. The river itself looked cheery
with all sorts of craft, from motor-launches
to canoys, slowly patrolling outside the
course. Quite an English atmosphere was
given by a couple of real Thames punts,
which were poled sedately along. Cars were
parked behind the spectators, forming a sort
of d.c., but the avenue of elms and oaks, now
almost devoid of leaves, provided the best
stances for the agile. Some enterprising
persons made money selling fruit-cases at a
shilling.
Xavier, whose luck in the big race
changed with the college jubilee last year,
once again received the Fairbairn Challenge
Cup, to have and hold for a twelvemonth.
Scotch put up a great fight; Grammar’s
showing was disappointing—but you can read
about the race in another place, as they say
in Parliament.
There were, of course, gala doings at
all theatres at night, even at the movie
shops. It lias been estimated that the
balloons bought for the occasion by the
J.C.W. firm alone, if placed end to end,
would reach from here to Ultima. The
Royal and His Majesty’s were decorated
as for a Royal visit with banks of flowers
around boxes and d.-c. balustrade, and more
flowers in dangling baskets mingled with the
lights. At the Royal crossed oars and col-
lege colors and badges were part of the
decorative scheme, with balloons floating
from every chair. At most theatres the race
was rowed again per means of the cinema.
At His Majesty’s Xavier’s colors draped the
footlights, and there were mascots on each
side of the stage. “The Student Prince”
ended in Venetian-fete style, with the stalls
patrons wading through seas of paper
streamers. The Princess hung out chiefly
the purple and gold of Wesley. The winning
crew didn’t make a triumphal entry at any
theatre; they were entertained at dinner
at the Australia, having been afternoon
tea-ed at Menzies’.
On Saturday night all our dancing resorts
were rushed by after-theatre patrons. At
the charming club quarters at Kooyong the
Lawn Tennis Association of Vie. staged
a jolly hop. The Mayor and Mayoress were
among tnose who gave private dances after a
strenuous day.
The Mayor and Mayoress gave their first
civic dinner on Thursday night. Pianist
Nancy Weir and Marjorie Carrodus, with her
songs at the piano, provided entertainment.
Then the guests were invited to step into
the balcony of the Town Hall to hear Erica
Morini’s last group of offerings; after which,
supper. Great bunches of brown and golden
chrysanthemums overhung the dining tables,
which were dotted with bowls of parma vio-
lets. After the health of the King had been
drunk, ex-Mayor Morell proposed a toast to
Mayor Luxton, whom he dubbed “Harold the
Peacemaker” for his efforts in trying to
soothe industrial strife. Dark blue-purplish
chiffon velvet was w T orn by the hostess. Meg
Griffith, from Albury, who was spending the
week-end with the Luxtons, was there in a
frock of figured-gold tissue. Sheila Morell,
acting as substitute for her mother, who is
on the sick list, sparkled in gold lace embel-
lished with gold and crystal beads. Other
guests were medico-military knight George
Cuscaden; the City Health Officer. Dr. John
Dale, and his wife ; councillor and Mrs. F. R.
Beaurepaire; councillor and Mrs. W. Kent
Huehes, she in pale pink ; Alderman H. C.
Elliott, with Mrs. Elliott and Molly; and
Brigadier-General “Pompey” Elliott.
The Mayoress’s suite at the Town Hall
has been brightened up, and now bears a
spring-like appearance. Apple-green and
gold-shot taffeta curtains and cushions are
blended with furniture upholstered in mole
velvet. A personal touch has been given
the reception-room by portraits of the two
Luxton sons, Lewis and Tom, painted by
Bill Mclnnes. Both lads rowed for Gram-
mar in Saturday’s Head-of-the-River race,
the elder, who is soon to go to Cambridge,
pulling stroke. A fine landscape by Oscar
Hempel also adorns the reception-room.
“Young Woodley,” the schoolboy play, was
put on at the Comedy on Saturday night.
The leading lady, Natalie Moya, who gath-
ered sheafs of chrysanthemumus and gladioli,
favors apparel of the jumper-pleated sairts
mode. In her sitting-room, with its uphol-
stery of hollyhock-patterned cretonne, the
dark-haired actress blends into the back-
ground in a fawn silk jersey with a knotted
’kerchief of pale lemon hue. The wee theatre
wore a chirpy air with balloons rising from
each seat. Some Uni. students and public-
school boys were scattered about the audi-
torium, and led the applause when the
heroine gave her husband, the housemaster,
some personal digs.
The personality of Elsie Prince pervades
“The Lido Lady,” which opened to a crowded
house at the Princess on Friday night. The
vivacious actress, looking more diminutive
than usual in masculine raiment, made a
speech at the finale over a wall of flowers,
and other members of the mostly-imported
co. and knight Ben Fuller did likewise.
Pyjamas and sports suits figure prominently
in the dressing of this musical comedy, and
a society fete supplies a Sheba scena in
which the Queen’s train is like a snowfield
sparkling in the sunlight. Blue gowns with
wide frilly skirts, gracefully manipulated by
chorus maids before a wonderful background,
make one of the stage pictures to be remem-
bered. Miss Prince’s first entrance in a de-
signedly-bizarre costume that includes a
green velvet caped coat with a quaint border
of small pierrettes above an edging of fUr
and a toque on which a gay parrot is perched,
is one of the big laughs of the piece.
In’the Plaza, the just-opened movie-theatre
beneath the Regent in Collins-street, the
decorations are of Spanish character. The
raftered ceiling is gaiiy painted, and on two
sides of the mottled fawn walls are rows
of bow-windows surmounted by striped
awnings. Wrought-iron electric candelabra
with synthetic candles illumine the apart-
ment. There’s a Wurlitzer organ—the
things make as much noise as an orchestra
and aren’t as likely to be affected by strikes.
Comfortable armchairs accommodate 1200
patrons, and there are loges on each side,
slightly raised above the level of the main
floor, which can be reserved. The foyer is
tigged out to look like an old Spanish court-
yard, and the exotic effect is maintained by
the attire of the usherettes, who look as
much like signoras as any Australian damsel
could hope to do.
The opening was a gala-night affair to
bank up funds for the Women’s Hospital.
Gladys Sayer, pianist, and Maude Bell,
’cellist, provided a before-the-show pro-
gramme while the first patrons inspected
their new surroundings. The city florists
turned out wonderful designs in flowers and
foliage—greetings from various other movie
cos. to Hoyt’s. In the throng were Mayor
and Mayoress Luxton, Mrs. Herbert Brookes,
president of the Women’s Hospital, and many
of her co-workers, Robert Best and his lady,
General and Mrs. Blarney and the Hennessy
lady, with her daughter Valerie.
Here is a picture of Mrs. Colin Colalian,
wife of the
Au s t ralian
painter whose
show at the
Athen se u m
Gallery was.
an event of
last week. She
is a singer of
promise, and
studied for two
years under
Madame Tam-
b u rin i in
Paris., Since
she came to
Melbourne
with her hus-
band two years
ago she has
continued her
training as a
pupil of Mary
Campbell a t
the Albert-
street Con.
Officials of the Richmond Horse Show
have issued a ukase that women competitors
in riding events must use side-saddles, reviv-
ing an argument that hasn’t been aired for
years. The side-saddle was invented cen-
turies ago, according to legend, to enable
a crippled Queen of England to take her
favorite exercise, and the ladies of her Court,
who previously had ridden astride, adopted
the fashion. The contraption, to use an old
political slogan, was “useless, dangerous, and
ought to be abolished”; and it has been out
of use for so long that it will take more
than the mandate of a single show com-
mittee to restore it to favor.
Lady Denman, wife of a Governor-General,
found soon after she arrived in this country—
it was in 1911 —that Australian bushwomen
used the same sort of saddles as their
brothers did, and caused a little social sen-
sation by discarding a skirt and wearing
breeches when she bestrode a nag. . English
and Australian equestriennes who followed
the fashions had been attiring themselves in
a hybrid sort of black garb that included a
tight bodice, a top-hat, a skirt that covered
their toes, long riding-boots, and —quaintest
of all —a pair of trousers. They hooked
their legs over a pair of leather projections
on the saddle. It was an uncomfortable and
insecure seat, and the trailing skirt was
responsible for a lot of fatalities So notori-
ous was this danger that the “safety skirt,”
which was held on by an elastic band and
snapped off if a tug came, was invented, and
came into general vogue. The next stage was
the shortening of the skirt so that it came
midway between knee and ankle.
In Spain, famous through the ages for good
horses and horsemanship, the women have
always ridden astride, and the womenfolk of
the American pioneers quickly discarded the
side-saddle, profiting by the example of
Spanisli-traditioned Mexico.
The unshin-
gled maid with
the steady eye
and broad
forehead pic-
tured here by
Lafayette is
Gertrude
Heal y, who
teaches violin -
playing at the
Albert - street
Con. She was
a pupil of
Marshall Hall,
and later
studied in
Germany and
London:
Many devices
are being in-
troduced i n
Paris to hide
shingled hair
for evening . „ . . ..,
wear. The most becoming is a net of invisible
thread, studded with crystals to match the
toilet. A more severe style is a wide-jewel-
led band worn over the top of the head with
the hair tucked primly beneath.
The wedding of Ysolde, eldest daughter
of Prof. Aylmer Buesst, and Lindsay George
Plant was an elaborate affair. The bride,
dark-eyed and very young, had an octette of
’maids —four grown-ups and four kiddies.
Her array was of white satin and tulle, with
more tulie floating from a Russian coronet
of seed pearls. With their russet georgette
gowns the elder attendants wore gold lace
and close-fitting velvet hats, young-
sters sported primrose-colored Kate Green-
away frocks and poke bonnets. The bride’s
grandparents, with whom she has lived for
some years, entertained afterwards at
Chastleton.
The red capes of nurses, collectors for the
Mayor’s Fund, made a cheery splash of
color on the city sidewalks, where there were
dozens of flower-stalls, one day last week. The
bower at the entrance to the Town Hall was
in charge of Mayoress Luxton. It was “a
cold, rainy day, but the public was generous.
Rear-Admiral Napier’s wife, who was one
of the six hostesses at the Victoria League’s
tea party last week, made a farewell appear-
ance—her return to England is very near.
The senior vice-president, Mrs. Henry Cave,
expressed the League’s regret at losing a
valued member, and tenor Walter Kirby sang
to Mrs. David Barry’s accompaniment.
The Council of Jewish Women enter-
tained Erica Morini at afternoon tea at the
Windsor. The president, Mrs. Maurice Pat-
kin, had white roses nestling amid her
pointed fox furs, worn over a black and
white gown. The violinist clasped a posy
of pink carnations and russet-toned leaves
and wore beneath a squirrel coat a frock of
sapphire blue. Mrs. David Alston sang Ger-
man songs. Bertha Schwartz, hon. sec., and
Mrs. L. L. Heymanson and Mrs. S. Schwartz,
vice-presidents, organised the reception,
The Anglican parish of St. John’s has a
curate, and recently there was a May fair
spread in the grounds of Miss McComas’s
Toorak home to help provide him with a
residence. Mayoress Luxton gave the affair
a kick-off, and a firm that specialises in
stained-glass windows and other church deco-
rations displayed the best of its wares. Pro-
fits amounted to £250.
Dr. Alva Boyd has returned with her
father after lending a hand with the wed-
ding of her tennis-champion sister, Esna,
and Lieut.-Col. Angus Robertson. During
her few months of absence Dr. Boyd pur-
sued her studies at St. John’s Hospital in
London, and also in Vienna.
Mrs. Alan Mcßride gave a luncheon party
at the Quamby Club last week to welcome
home her old friend Mrs. Huntley Griffiths,
over from Ceylon on a short visit. The host-
ess, who had the assistance of her sister Ena
Toomey, received her guests in a black velvet
toilette against a mass of flame-colored floral
decorations, and the guest of honor wore a
beige ensemble with a floating coat of georg-
ette. Amongst the guests were Mrs. Isigel
Somerset, who lives in India, her sister, Mrs.
Ivan. Tait, and Mrs. T. Rutherford.
The Women’s Citizens’ movement is mak-
ing good use of its lately-acquired rooms in
the Block Arcade. Periodical tea parties
and lunches have been arranged for educa-
tional purposes. A luncheon last week was
attended by 24 members, and the president,
Mrs. Britomarte James, sat at the head of
the table. Dr. Ethel Osborne talked about
the many vocations which the present cen-
tury allows women to enter. She recalled
that in her undergrad, days at Leeds
girl students weren’t allowed to study Phy-
siology—it was considered immodest —but
to-day that Uni. includes in its staff a woman
lecturer on obstetrics.
The cold snap brought out a varied array
of wraps. One was a coat of black-
and-grey-flecked tweed with a yellow selvedge.
The fashion tip that suede and other sorts
of leather are to be used as trimming for
winter wraps has been variously interpreted.
A rose-pink leather jacket has been bright-
ening the landscape of the Block, and one
enterprising and courageous soul turned out
with bits of suede stuck all over her surtout
—that’s French for overcoat. Stylish and
effective coats are well-cut w’oollen checks
worn with harmonising footwear and felt
hats.
St. Martin’s Boys’ Home has had a wind-
fall of £3OO, proceeds of a card afternoon
and dance at the Leslie Stuarts' home. There
was an accounting at Logan House last
week, when Mrs. Stuart poured tea for the
committee, and was thanked for her interest
by Padre Eric Thornton, rector of the home.
St. Patrick’s College Hall wore gala dress
of flame and golden cactus dahlias and chry-
santhemums when members of the Old Col-
legians’ Association entertained the women-
folk who have lent a hand with the asso-
ciation’s social and charitable activities. W.
,T. McClelland made a thanksgiving speech,
and Margaret Baynes, Jean and Noreen
Lennon and Pattie Cameron made music.
Heidelberg is mourning Mrs. Annie Mary
Maling, wife of D. H. Maling, best known
to readers by his pen-name “Ithuriel.” She
was a daughter of the late J. H. Abbott,
M.L.C., who was a Minister under J. B.
Patterson in 1593-94. Maling, who is in his
75tli year, retired from the Argus staff, after
nearly 40 years’ service, when he was 70.
Mrs. Frank Shann, who died suddenly last
week, is affectionately remembered by past
and present students of Trinity Grammar
School, Kew. She was wife of the head-
master, and took a keen interest in the wel-
fare of all the students. She was a Launces-
ton girl, and married Mr. Shann when he
was co-principal of the Grammar School in
that town.
Norman Falkiner, whose death is reported
from London, was a well-known Melbourne
sportsman, the owner, in his time, of many
famous horses that raced on the flat or over
the sticks. He was appointed a member of
the Leg. Council a year or so ago. He had
been, for some years prior to his end, a sick
man, and after a series of operations in a
private hospital here he decided to consult
a specialist in Germany. The scythe fell
before he could reach his destination. He
was a brother of Otway Falkiner.
The Ernest Poolmans’ daughter Audrey,
arrayed in geranium-red georgette with
touches of gold, hostessed a young people’s
hop on boatrace eve at her parents’ South
Yarra home. Two blues dominated the deco-
rations —the navy of Melbourne Grammar
and the paler blue of Geelong Grammar —
twined about the schools’ respective crests.
Mrs. Poolman, who mingled silver with her
black draperies, gave greeting to the guests.
Archbishop Mannix made a deal in real-
estate the other day in the interests of
Roman Catholic women. This was the pur-
chase of the fine five-storeyed brick building
known as the Queen’s Coffee Palace, which
has frontages on Victoria and Rathdown
streets overlooking the Exhibition Gardens.
It contains about 200 rooms, and there are
three or four shops on the city side. The
place was built by a syndicate in 1888, with
an eye to accommodating, as a kick-off, visi-
tors ffo the first of Melbourne’s agricultural
shows to be held in the Exhibition buildings
opposite. But the builders, were too slow,
and the hostelry wasn’t ready when the show
came round ; the Colonial Bank took posses-
sion and boarded-up the windows, which re-
mained like that for many years. Then
James Woods, a local business man, con-
ceived the idea of letting the building out
as unfurnished residential flats and rooms.
His suggestion, being then quite new, was
scoffed at, but he bought the big building and
went ahead with his project, which turned
out a very profitable one. The Salv’army
negotiated for the purchase of the place dur-
ing the white-elephant days, but couldn’t
accept the bank’s offer. For service as a
Roman Catholic Women’s Hostel the build-
ing will be entirely renovated, and lifts will
be installed.


THE WORLD HAS A NEW AND FINER ROTOR CAR
\'
X
A
\
m
Nh5H
V"
a
i
Tsflte Smart World
Chooses the NEW NASH "400
THE NEW
11
UERY noticeable, is the enthusiasm for the new Nasb
“400” exhibited by people who drive solely for
pleasure and sport —those to whom smartness, style and
faultless performance are as necessary as tbe air they
breathe.
Its low-swung, racing balance, its marvelous driving touch,
the smooth rhythm of its dynamic new Twin Ignition
motor, all combine to give the “400” owner a type of
motoring far more satisfying than any be has known.
Its many costly-car features and luxuries—centralized
chassis lubrication, hydraulic shock absorbers, specially
designed bumpers, and the like, all serve to install the
“400” as a ruling favorite of those who live luxuriously.
Built as it is, appointed as it is, performing as it does,
the “400” would undoubtedly be more expensive in price
were it not for the enormous volume of Nash production.
Tourers. Sedans.
Standard Six from £375 £4so* (2-door) £470 (4-door)
Special Six £4BO £565* (2-door) £5BO (4-door)
Advanced Six £63o* £62o* (2-door) £635 (4-door)
* Imported body.
Distributors for New South Wales:
WILLSFORD, LTD.,
132-134 Phillip Street,
SYDNEY.
’Phones: 8W2291 (5 lines).
Distributors for Victoria and Tasmania
RICKARDS BROS. PTY., LTD.,
567-573 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE, Cl.
’Phone: F 3114. «
Distributors for Queensland and Northern Rivers ,
PEELS, LTD.,
407-431 Stanley Street,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
’Phone: J 1561.
Distributors for South Australia and Broken Hill
AUTOCARS, LTD.,
58-72 Flinders Street,
ADELAIDE.
’Phone: Central 5500.
Distributors for West Australia:
ERIC MADDREN MOTORS, LTD.,
996 Hay Street,
PERTH.
’Phones: 85610, 87634.
TASMANIAN DEALERS'.
THE SERVICE CO. OF TASMANIA, 166 Brisbane Street,
E. MEERMANN, 135 Bathurst Street, Hobart.
BENNETT & GILBERT, Best Street, Devonport.
Launceston.


h i t A
pv Fx
l I
gifegX ,.
M
i
j y
n
rf
i
mi
m
m
-
-:.x
J
HI
.. . ;
1. /Mm
ml h ft
;/
' f; i ’*“'’”•’”11 lfjf ’’M I
Vsii, y.j ,Xk 1 1 ft;
•: i : 1 :
%mm\i ■
•wWi'l j
,
.. ■ ■■ ■ SV,{
hA m j m
m
/
a*
sS^JUs
¥wmm
i p
mfm -
:. •
iMimm
x,.
~ ahwci ~ :***”;■
i:A
i......
4:1 \»
§m
J
m- i
<Tv
-4
A
1
y:^v
m
1
Itiff
m
M
/■:
: •
mm
The Armstrong Whitworth Shipyards have launched three
million tons of shipping.
Armstrong Whitworth are the pioneers of the method of
shipping locomotives overseas in fully-erected condition.
And they are pioneers of the now generally-adopted method
of carrying oil overseas in bulk.
These are only some of the many items dealt with in our
new publication “Engineers to the World.” It is printed in
three languages—English, French and Spanish, and will be
of great interest to everyone connected with General
Engineering, Railways and Shipping.
We invite you to write for your copy.
SIR W. G. ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH & CO., LTD.,
Sales Organisation: Park House, Great Smith Street, London, S.W. 1.
Works and Shipyards - -- -- -- -- -- -- Newcastle-on-Tyne.
AGENTS: Messrs. GILBERT LODGE & CO., Ltd., Melbourne, Sydney
and Adelaide.
SHIPS MARINE ENGINES LOCOMOTIVES
GENERAL ENGINEERING
M.C.I.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854<
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise you do not consider the
money involved as a speculation. You treat
this expenditure as an investment and expect
a reasonable return on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence, in the
affairs and development of Victoria. Its
present powerful position has been gained by
its literary worth, which appeals to an intelli-
gent public, and by its accurate and complete
news service. These factors, having a direct
bearing on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser looking
for the best INVESTMENT for his advertising
expenditure.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation,
123,533.
Hates on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street/
PROGRESS!
The 80th ANNUAL REPORT of the
A.M.P. SOCIETY
for the year 1928 discloses:—
NEW BUSINESS completed £21,352,160
CASH SURPLUS to be distributed amongst
participating members 3,270,000
PAID TO MEMBERS or their dependents. . . . 4,072,305
ASSETS at 31st December, 1928 73,776,235
PAID TO MEMBERS or their dependents since establishment the immense
sum of NINETY-ONE MILLION POUNDS.
Provide for your dependents—make provision for your old age—secure
a profitable investment by effecting a policy with
AUSTRALIA’S FOREMOST LIFE OFFICE.
Write or ’phone for prospectus.
F. T. BRIDGES, Acting General Manager.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
•Phone: 8W2354.
Branch and District Offices throughout Australia and New Zealand.
d
You can Wipe the Mort-
gage Off your House.
Possess insurance, and effect a
saving in cost. Particulars of this
sound business investment from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
fehA6KB&RG>'
FOWMTP&N
Prices, 9/- upwards.
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS.
ď
đ
d
Dependablef
Craig *Aitken
Wholesale Distributott
“ sndneq N.S.W.
d
In Days of Old
White hair was
all the vogue.
In modern days
grey or white
hair is consid-
ered a sign of
appr o a c h i n g
age.
It is NOT "THE
THING."
All traces of Grey can readily be removed
by an application of
Dr. Allen’s (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
Sold at all Chemists and Stores.
Harmless, easy
to apply, can-
not be detected
Australian Agents:
DUERDIN AND
SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street,
Melbourne.
ď
2
/ 7
w HTo be \
'sure of the'
Joriginal, look
for the name ,
WEED
on every
hook '
ALMOST impassable
i. roads are made nav-
igable for the truck or
bus equipped with WEED
TYRE CHAINS.
Weed Chains grip and
hold —they furnish the
traction necessary to take
one steadily through soft,
miry mud, sand or clay.
No truck or bus should
ever be without Weed
Chains. Keep them ready
for immediate use when
road conditions warrant.
Orderfromyourdealer.
WEED
TYRE CHAINS
1507
FOR “LATE NIGHT”
STOMACHS
A late night, with ever so little to drink, is poison
to many. Next morning the head aches, the tongue
is bad, and the stomach is worse. What to do?
Take Para-Pepsin! Quick as a flash it calms the
stomach; freshens the mouth; sweetens the breath.
Appetite comes; irritability goes. It’s worth a
trial! Once a stomach sufferer tries it he never goes
back to harmful anti-acids. Para-Pepsin is sold in
tablet form, any chemist’s, at 2/- and 3/6. For a
real and quick return to stomach health you must
have Para-Pepsin; it’s the best remedy known.
OX GUYATT’S.
BROOKS
APPLIANCE
FOR RUPTURE
THE greatest dis-
covery and invent-
ion of the century--
Brooks appliance affords
ample comfort: is light,
cool, comfortable and
clean. Wearer is able
to work, play and rest
đ
without trouble or inconvenience.
GUYATT & CO. Dept. 8
257 a George Street, Sydney.
PERCY MARKS,
JEWELLER AND LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emcra:ds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.


Jelly is the craze l
(cfiflF you share the fashion-
able craze for Jellies
here is a hint. A jelly is
the smart thing to serve:
serve it smartly. Ask your
chinaware dealer to send
you half-a-dozen of Shelley’s
Jelly Moulds in strong
white porcelain. Then your
jellies will always turn out
with the chosen shape
sharply defined —just- as it
should be!
Ask
J See THE LATEST
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets*
Morning Sets
Dainty White
• China
Nursery Ware
Jxf Lucie Attweu
& Hilda Cowham
Domestic Ware
Jelly Moulds
232 .Cl A.R.ENCK
m
RENOWN BRAND
ROPES & CORDAGE
Manufactured at Mascot by
J. SCOTT, LIMITED
Head Office and Stores:
163 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY
’Phone: 82861. Box 251 DD, G.P.O.
Sisal Fibre for Plaster Sheets.
Real Hair Grower
Found At Last
Six out of eight are bald or grey at 40, yet very
few need be. The hair roots can be stimulated to
new life very quickly by a new scalp-invigorating
preparation known as “Vi-Glo.” This acts on the
growth and color cells much as rain acts on a
parched plant. So long as the hair roots and color
glands are not dead (and they rarely die), “Vi-Glo”
will show remarkable results, growing new, youthful
hair and restoring color to fading hair. Ask your
chemist for a 8/- package of “Vi-Glo” to-day, or
send 3/4 for outfit to Vi-Glorient Co., Kembla
Building, Sydney. Satisfaction is guaranteed.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/-per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
For Sale.
Auxiliary Schooner For Sale.
DOYAL ENDEAVOR, 60-ton; length,
76ft.; beam, 18ft.; draught, Bft. 6in.;
60-h.p. Skandia crude-oil engine, installed
1925; speed, 7 knots; carrying capacity, 45
tons dead weight.
This handsome vessel, thoroughly well
found in every respect, and well known in the
Solomon Islands as a splendid sailer, will
be available for inspection in a few weeks
at Samarai, Papua.
Price, £3500.
For further particulars apply owners: —
MALAYTA 00., LTD.,
72 King Street, Sydney.
Telegraphic Address, “Malayta, Sydney.”
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: THE DESERT SONG
ROYAL: PAVLOVA
CRITERION: PIGS
PALACE: NO. 17
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
“HEIFETZ OF THE KEYBOARD.”
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Direction E. J. CARROLL.
SATURDAY NEXT at 8.
ALSO
MAY 21, 23, 25 and 27.
E. J. CARROLL presents the
GREAT RUSSIAN PIANIST,
RRAILO W SKY
For the first time in Australia.
“HE IS THE PIANIST OF THE MOMENT”
“Like Paderewski, this younger piano charmer
might be said to be a player for the public.”
—Leonard Liebling, N. Y. American.
Plans at Nicholsons, 416-418 George Street.
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
THE STUDENT PRINCE.
ROYAL:
THIS YEAR OF GRACE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT,
THE FIVE O’CLOCK GIRL.
COMEDY THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
YOUNG WOODLEY.
HOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
JACQUELINE LOGAN in
STOCKS AND BLONDES.
AND
ALL-STAR CAST in
SPARKLING YOUTH.
Tenders.
MUNICIPALITY OF GLENELG
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S PREMIER
SEASIDE RESORT.
'T'ENDERS will be received until 5 p.m.
on June 1, 1929, for the right to occupy
Beach Sites at Glenelg for Novelties, Games
or Amusement Devices, for one or more
seasons, extending November to April.
Only limited number available.
Full particulars and conditions obtainable
from the undersigned.
No tender necessarily accepted.
By Order,
F. A. LEWIS,
Town Clerk.
Town Hall, Glenelg,
12th April, 1929.
Missing Friends.
QMITH (TOM DICKINSON), working at
Small Arms Factory, Lithgow, 1917;
iu 1912 residing at 126 Flinders Street,
Melbourne, will bear something to his advan-
tage if he (or any person with information
as to his present address) will write
STANTON, ATKINSON & BIRD, Solici-
tors, Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
ELIZABETH JEFFREY (sister of Amelia
_ Hartwell), who came to Australia about
1833, and resided in Pitt Street, Sydney,
and later married Mr. Champion. If her
son JOSEPH NORFOLK JEFFREY, or
any of her or his descendants will communi-
cate with NORTON, SMITH & CO., Solici-
tors, of 39 Hunter Street, Sydney, they will
hear of something to their advantage.
TOHN FRANCIS WALLACE.—If this
J should meet the eye of John Francis Wal-
lace, formerly of Wurruk Wurruk, near Sale,
in Victoria, he is requested to communicate
with Messrs. STAVELEY & STIRLING,
Solicitors, Foster Street, Sale, from whom
he will hear to his advantage.
I INTON, HERBERT, who lived at South
'*~ i Yarra about 30 years ago, will hear
something to his advantage if he com-
municates with NATIONAL TRUSTEES
CO., 113 Queen Street, Melbourne.
r'-OLLIN, CHARLES WILLIAM, formerly
of Anglers’ Arms Hotel, Maribyrnong,
and late of the stli Batt., A.1.F., or anyone
knowing of his whereabouts, please com-
municate with NATIONAL TRUSTEES
CO., 113 Queen Street, Melbourne.
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d.
It deals v ith every subject of
interest to women.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland's
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Much ingenuity was expended on the Com-
mem. procession this year, but at the eleventh
hour political skits were tabooed, which short-
ened the procession considerably. In the
afternoon degrees were conferred at the Ex-
hibition Concert Hall, and Freda Bage, the
only woman member of the Uni. Senate, came
in for a good deal of chaff from the students,
to which she responded with a smile. Arch-
bishop Duliig was there in liis ecclesiastical
robes and Chancellor Blair was amongst the
speakers. _ Blue and gold decked the build-
ing, and in the evening the annual dinner
was held at the Uni. amidst rose-pink stream-
ers and greenery. An informal dance fol-
lowed.
The Women’s College Committee has
■elected Mrs. Edgar Harris as president in
Mrs. T. J. Ryan’s place. At the meeting
Peter Macgregor said nice things about
Freda Bage’s good management of the col-
lege she supervises. It was reported that
Eleanor and Ida Bourne have donated £lOO
to the college as a memorial to their mother.
The interest at present goes to the library.
Lady Goodwin, Mayor Jolly and Isobel
Bartholomew were on the platform.
The Alliance Frangaise set its monthly
meeting amongst yellow chrysanthemums in
Albert House. President Griffith Oxley and
his wife received, and Kathleen Campbell
Brown and K. A, Lemon were responsible
for the musical programme.
Frank Hutchens and Lindley Evans have
been playing the piano to enthusiastic audi-
ences in the Albert Hall, allied with Ruth
Portraite, who sang with the Gonsalez Opera
Co. here. The lady took the stage in ivory
and autumn tones over gold lame, and re-
ceived many posies.
There was a good roll-up for the Austral
Choir’s concert in the Exhibition Hall.
Beatrice Pugh, Hilda Roberts and Dorothy
and Marjorie Williamson were the soloists,
and they were handed many flowers. Pre-
sident E. W. H. Fowles and Mrs. Fowles
were there with a party.
For the Nurses’ Rest Home, Mrs. A.
Buchanan Steele gave an afternoon bridge
party at her residence in East Brisbane.
Mrs. J. Gladys Reay and Miss M.
Castle helped with the entertaining. Mrs.
Steele’s autumn-tinted chiffon gown was
worn with a visca straw hat.
The Nationalist landslide carried with it
into Parliament Mrs. Irene Longman, wife
of Heber Longman, director of Brisbane
Museum. Her electorate is Bulimba, a sub-
urban district in which there ''are about
10,000 electors. At last election the Labor
majority was well over 1000, but Mrs. Long-
man won the seat by a margin of 289. She’s
our first woman M.L.A., and they gave her
a tumultuous reception at the Nat.-C.P. head-
quarters when the results went up. The lady
has been prominent in social work for many
years, and is a practised speaker.
Sir John and Lady Goodwin will lend
Government House for a function to help
the Creche and Kindergarten Association, to
be held in a few months’ time. Mrs. de Witt
Batty, Mrs. Ross Munro, Mrs. Hannibal
King, Barbara Sisley and others are workers
for the cause. At the first meeting of the
organisers recently Lady Goodwin made a
speech. Miss Bedford and Mayoress Jolly
were on the platform with her Ex.
Charles, elder son of the A. E. Withys,
Mosman, Sydney, took Olive, daughter of the
G. K. Cannans, for better and worse in St.
John’s Cathedral. The bride wore ivory
crepe over daffodil, and her full veil was
caught under a Juliet cap of diamente. White
camellias, roses and hyacinths made up the
bouquet Lilian Cannan and Eileen Nick-
son ’maided, in leaf-green and hats of pale-
pink tulle and felt. After-rejoicings took
place at the home of the bride’s aunt, Mrs.
W. T. Robertson, at Indooroopilly.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
A delightful young soprano is Kathleen
Brandwood, pictured here, who recently made
her debut at
the Tow n
Hall. W. H.
Foote, instruc-
tor in wind in-
struments at
the Elder
C o n., has
theories about
r e s p iratory
control as
applied to a
singer, and for
five years Miss
Brandwood has
been his pupil.
Mr. Foote is
more than sat-
isfied with the
result of his
experiment. As
a result of his
teaching Miss
Brandwood be-
came a licen-
tiate of the R.A.M. and R.C.M. after a one-
year’s course—an unusual achievement. Lady
Hore-Ruthven attended the recital.
Racing having occupied general attention
lately, the public was divided between want-
ing rain for the crops and fine weather for
the races. The rain came all right, but Cup
Day was mostly fine, though there was a
heavy shower while the big event was being
run. His Ex. and Lady Hore-Ruthven
attended the Goodwood and Cup meetings,
and brought their son Peter on holiday
from Eton. He wanted to have a bit on, but
his father wouldn’t let him, apparently for
reasons of State. Lady Hore-Ruthven wore
a black satin coat with skunk collar and a
small fawn and red hat at the Goodwood
meeting, and the same hat with a tailored
tweed coat on Cup Day. She is a very quiet
frocker. Felt hats and tweed coats worn
by the hundred made the general outlook
autumnal, and a bright hat here and there
was quite a relief. Mrs. S. J. Jacobs acted
as hostess for chairman Whitmore Carr,
wearing a black cloth coat with a black satin
hat and a stone-marten fur.
On Cup Night the Burnside branch of the
Mothers and Babies’ Health Association held
a ball, which was well attended by the race-
goers. There was bridge as well, and the
home-made supper was a feature. Mrs. Nor-
man Myers, formerly of Melbourne, was
smartly frocked in black taffeta, the skirt
short except on one side where a panel train
touched the ground, lined with scarlet, and
a long trail of scarlet roses extended from
the waist at the back over her left shoulder.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Perth.
The Perth Golf Clubhouse was a riot of
golden-brown zinnias and warm autumn
leaves when Lady Campion opened the sea-
son for women players. Her Ex., in soft
black georgettes, was welcomed by Mrs.
Evans, wife of the president. Opportunity
was taken to present a gold wristlet watch
to retiring secretary Mildred McDougall,
whose services were extolled by the president.
A nine-hole match was played, and there was
a putting competition, Mrs. McLean winning
both events. Darlington, Fremantle and'
Cottesloe clubs were represented.
The picnic races at Murgoo station at-
tracted a big rally of Murchison and city
folk. Popular Pat Maxwell, of Meka sta-
tion, carried off the Cup on Edenu. After
each day’s racing there was dancing in the,
shearing-shed, denuded of its skins and wool
and titivated till it looked just like a ball-
room. Mrs. Sharpe and Mrs. Fremlin were
hostesses. A fancy-dress jazz brought some
extraordinary costumes.
Mayor Franklin, launched our latest movie
palace, the Capitol, which has nothing bizarre
or outre in its facade or interior. Soft tones
and delicate designs prevail everywhere.
There’s a ground-floor garage for the parking
of patrons’ cars, and a direct connection with
Temple Court supper and dancing rooms.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
Mabel Evershed, L.A.8., organist at All
Saints’ Church, is well known as a success-
ful teacher in
Hobart. She
is a member
of the Tas.
Uni. Advisory
Board of
Music and
studied the
organ under
W. W. Thorn-
thwa i t e in
Launc e s t o n,
and later with
Ernest Wood,
St. P a u l’s
Cathedral,
Mel bourne.
She has held
positions as
organist at St.
John’s and St.
Paul’s, Laun-
ceston ; was
for a year at
Holy Trinity,
Balaclava, Melbourne, and was” then for
a while at Wangaratta Cathedral.
The T.R.C. meeting at Elwick was not
quite up to the average in attendance, though
chairman Tom Lyons wangled the postpone-
ment of the sailing till late in the
afternoon so that quite a little crowd of
passengers swelled the throng. Mrs. Lyons,
who, with her husband, entertained guests
at tea in the pavilion, wore a tweed ensemble
suit in greyish blue with a long-haired felt
hat in the same shade, and daughter Rhona
helped, in tailored-blue serge. The Ashbolt
lady sported a light beige tailored tweed and
rose-beige hat innocent of brim. Tailored
suits of cocoa shades with small hats were
favored by most smart dressers. Mrs. Alan
Walker, Mrs. and Miss Keating (Melb.),
Mrs. Prout-Webb, Mrs. Geoffrey Chapman,
the Nicholls girls, Joi Chapman, Dr. and
Mrs. James Sprent and the A. J. Millers
were noticed in the crowd.
In honor of Princess Elizabeth’s birthday
Mrs. Baxter organised a big children’s party
in the City Hall, attended by 1200 kiddies.
The decorations were all in the form of
swans—black and white, large and small.
The Mayor cabled the Duchess of York about
it, and the Duchess replied sending thanks
and good wishes.
Hunting has commenced in the midlands.
There was a small following at the first
meet, but those who did turn out had a good
day’s sport. Mrs. Jack Foster and daughter
Dorothy provided lunch at Rosedale.
The Child Welfare Association is shortly
to move into new headquarters, replacing
the poky little premises in Murray-street.
Mayoress Wignall laid the foundation-stone
of the new building in Davey-street, in the
presence of a big crowd, among whom were
the C.J.’s lady, who is president of the asso-
ciation, the Mayor and some councillors, and
Chief Sec. James.
Owing to the death of Lady O’Grady the
Governor and Miss O’Grady cancelled all
social engagements for four weeks.
The Angus Butlers have started for their
home in Nigeria, via Canada and England.
Mrs. Butler will tarry a while cn route, but
her husband has to get back to hi s duties,
being an M.L.C., among other things.
“The Quartermaster,” the £5OO First
Prize Novel, with superb illustrations by
Norman Lindsay, will begin publication
in next week’s “Bulletin.”


A MEDICINE CHEST IN ITSELF/
Ve er^ d
A-
gictioo 5
. ..aan***-
\{ tbeY
tbeV
be
dvsp
Y»* d
_.<\ easAV \ '
etS eO ee b,
a vtvng
eft-
ca<v " - bV
«*» «® h :fco^r«
COM
,*ag eS
itvost
.tvd
SO»
oi c °
.A.
,utse.
-*::*-** r:-
etv
‘**" • t be
tett rvitv at battAV
■tVva^
\s
4ote'
' sM S °oS'® ed ‘
bttttt
oi seS '
at
_ •p.e^o^
beep t v s
e %otva ° bdes- P vleS ’
sc**; f%* *>°*fUe* ct
t^ et v r b actetta
ib^ s - r c otoV)i»^'^ e *otva
.. . atvA
da^
*5 V uc6
tt° u ate
eS setv ce « wva 1
atvAc^^
, „C cUtS>
-
atvA
a? eI
i^cte'
iect
sb\tv ts
that paJ t.
d
Mb*®
:,o^lbV' t^^* orf too°“«r.. v°
P'SS
IV
RO2R
\6
• 5
....without painful
Guaranteed and kept
“drag,” if you use the Plum Razor, ideal for wiry beards and tender skins,
in order for two years free. Sticngly-made grained-leather case with every razor.
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 ~
Real Ivory Handle 21/ " »
Satin-lined double
ease free with
every pair.
7-day sets —7 razors in case:
Black, 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory, 140/-
. Post Free to Any Address.
Jlte IPMJM Ra^or
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
FPL 4.
A UNIQUE
COMBINATION
\
\r\
Z
S s'-
This is the handiest
Workshop Outfit yet
designed.
For the hun-
dred and one
things to be
done about
the home
or farm, the
“S t e w a r t”
Handy Worker
is ideal.
For mending harness, bending or
cutting pipe, sharpening tools, grind-
ing ploughshares, boring wood or
metal, blacksmith work, and for an endless variety of other jobs
this handy worker is unbeatable.
The set comprises Vyce, Pipe Vyce, Anvil, Drill Dress (two speed), with
Drills, Carborundum Grinding Wheel (three speeds), and Cutting Hardie.
The mechanism that drives the Grinding Wheel can also be used to drive
extra attachments such as BUFFING WHEEL, SCRATCH BRUSH, SMALL
CIRCULAR SAW, etc.
It only requires bolting to a table or bench, and is then ready for use.
Highest-quality materials are used throughout.
Gears, Drills, Pipe Jaws, Hardie, etc., are all cut from Steel and carefully
tempered.
Weight of full outfit boxed for delivery, 1 001 b.
Send no more jobs out to be done. Let this Handy Worker do them, and
it will repay its cost many times in money and time saved.
PRICE, £5/15/-
Many other useful articles are shown in our Free 1929 Catalogue. Get a copy.
c
Proprietary Limited
EST. 1860.
51-65 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
582-592 Collins Street, Melbourne. 116-130 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Amazing Cooking Speed
FOCUSSED HEAT—
the scientific heat
brings cooler and
fewer kitchen hours.
Focussed Heat—the
kind of heat the
FLORENCE
WICKLESS
OIL STOVE
ď
produces, puts truly amazing
speed into cooking. It is different
from any you have ever seen in
an oil stove.
You start the Florence with
kerosene—and operate it with
kerosene. It is simplicity itself
—clean, safe, economical and
thoroughly efficient.
And the famous Florence Oven,
with the patented heat distri-
butor, enables you to do the best
baking you have ever done.
Let us send you well-
illustrated Booklets
which give full facts.
Investigate also
Nulite Lamps
and Lanterns
and
Comfort
Benzine Irons.
Both are essential to
country home com-
fort.
PRICES from 42/- each
BRANDTS Lm
«EVERYTHING FOR LIGHT AND HEAT; >
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
•Phone: M 4651, MAI 002.
Queensland Agents: J. T. Greenlees & Co., Ann Street, Brisbane. Michelmore & Co., Mackay.
Armstrong. Ledlie & Stillman, Cairns. Samuel Allen & Sons, Ltd., Townsville.
H & J. Friend, Ltd., Gladstone.
AGENTS REQUIRED IN OTHER STATES.


Commonwealth War Gratuity Loan
DUE 31st MAY, 1929.
OFFER OF CONVERSION.
Holders of Stock or Bonds in the above Loan are invited to convert into a new Commonwealth Loan, bearing interest at 5} per cent, per annum and
maturing on 15th July, 1939.
Conversion will be effected as on 31st May, 1929, and interest will be paid on 15th January and 15th July in each year. One and a half month’s interest
will be paid on 15th July, 1929.
Interest will be free of State Income-tax.
Persons unable to convert their holdings may be paid off at any time up to 21st May, with interest to date of payment; or they will be paid off in the
ordinary course on the due date, 31st May.
Full particulars and application forms from
BANKS AND SAVINGS BANKS, AND MEMBERS OF RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGES.
Commonwealth Treasury, Canberra.
EARLE PAGE, Treasurer.
WHO MAS PETER GOURLAY?
BY Harold Mercer
FROM the moment that, with the electric
light switched on, I regarded the still
figure lying on the bed, and realised
that I was looking at my own dead body,
life has been little short of a continuing
nightmare. I will be glad when it is all
over; and yet the desire for life, even when
it is associated with loathing, remains in-
stinctively strong.
Imagine, if you like and can, the horror of
waking to find that you have changed from
a young, wholesome man in the middle
twenties, with the hope of a long life extend-
ing before you, its only threat that of an
athlete’s heart developed by a too-strenuous
devotion to sport—changed from that to an
old man! Not an old man suffering the
natural decrepitude of years, but one tor-
mented with vague memories of ill living.
It is impossible for me to say exactly how
I allowed myself to fall under the influence
of Peter Gourlay, but it was reasonable
enough that I should' accept the comfortable
advantages of the position he offered me.
The laurels I had won in several branches
of sport had made me neglect what should
have been my real interests in life; at
twenty-six I • had no profession and no defi-
nite prospects, and the time when I could
go on living upon sport as an amateur was
passing. The best prospect I had was to
turn a professional in one of the branches;
and that life did not appeal to me.
It was at this period that I was intro-
duced to Peter Gourlay. The man repulsed
at the same time that he attracted. He had
a mental alertness that fascinated; but there
was a snake-like gleam in his eyes that, even
before I knew him well, made me shudder.
Yet the interest of a man who had made
his mark in the world of brains flattered
me. I gladly dined with him, and when,
upon the third occasion, he asked me to
become his secretary, I accepted the position
eagerly. A substantial salary, relieved of
the cost of board and lodging—for I was to
live in his house —with very little to do:
this seemed the
sort of job a man
might dream about
but never hope to
get.
That it seemed
too good to be true
contributed to my
discomfort later
when, wondering at
certain sinister
happenings in the
house, which had a
kind of essential
eerieness for all its
luxury, I some-
times wished I had
refused the posi-
tion.
It was probably
a first impression
that fixed in me
the sensation of
eerieness. At the
very first dinner it
had struck me that
there was no sense
of personal attach-
ment between
Gourlay and the
servants who wait-
ed upon his com-
fort. They seemed
of less interest to
him than the furni-
ture he used; a
conviction formed
itself that what-
ever might happen to them would be of not
the slightest concern to Gourlay, and that
this was his attitude to all the world. No-
body mattered except as far as he existed
for the convenience of this wealthy, clever
old man.
Feeling this, his generous treatment of and
his interest in me made me uneasy. I had
been hardly three weeks with him before he
arranged that I should sign his cheques—
not with my own name but with his own.
He rushed me into it, taking me to the bank
and making the necessary arrangements for
the acceptance of my signature without
thinking it necessary to ask if I was pre-
pared to undertake the responsibility.
It occurred to me that there might be
some improper motive, and I was all the
more uncomfortable because I could not evell
suspect what it might be. It was not likely
that Gourlay wanted to ruin me—why should
he? But, supposing, that for some mysterious
reason he did want to ruin me, my signing
his cheques might offer him a way.
At the time I made a feeble protest; and,
worried by guessing at possibilities, I re-
newed the subject as we sat over dessert.
“Mr. Gourlay—about my signing those
cheques,” I said ; “I’d much rather not accept
the responsibility.”
“You don’t have to sign the cheques unless
I tell you. In fact,” he smiled, “you will
be liable to get into trouble if you do sign
any without that warrant. But I know you
are a man who can be trusted, and I am
showing my confidence in you.”
It was flattering; yet I was still uncom-
fortable. “I can’t see the necessity for it,”
I protested.
“One prepares for eventualities.” he said,
still smiling rather queerly. “I’m an old
man, and I might go down one day—par-
alysis, perhaps. It would be handy to be
able to draw money as it was wanted.”
“But you arc not really old,” I said.
“I am seventy-five,” lie said, his eyes
almost dancing.
The statement shocked me. He looked at
least twenty years younger than that. I
exclaimed upon it.
“The gland treatment,” he said. “I under-
took it directly I heard of it and ascertained
that it was safe. I took a trip to Europe
especially to secure it.”
“And you really feel, as well
as look, younger?” I asked.
He lifted his arms with a
jaunty freedom and laughed.
“You are the first man I have
met who has tried it; but, of
course, I have heard of it. It
is a wonderful development.”
“I have discovered something
more wmnderful than that,” he
said, speaking with eager inten-
" ‘For that body, still and already cold, was my own.’”
sity. “The gland treatment can only renew'
the energy and possibly extend life for a few
decades. It cannot restore wasted tissue.
My discovery is that youth can be brought
back again; that life can go on indefinitely,
renewing its youth from age to age.”
I stared at him, astounded at a sudden
vehemence as he stood up and added, almost
venomously, “Death can be cheated!”
I sensed behind the exultation that here
was a man who hated and feared death. The
situation was both abnormal and uncomfort-
able.
“How do you propose to do it?”
His laugh was saturnine.
“Those experiments in my study have
something to do with it. Some day I will
let you know all about my secret.”
The atmosphere seemed to have grown hot
and intolerable. I announced that I would
go out for a stroll.
“Drink that wine first,” he said.
“I’ve had enough; I don’t care for more,”
I replied.
“Drink it!” he barked.
I looked him straight in the eyes ; the tone
was too domineering. Resentfully I took a
pace or two towards the door.
The next I knew was that I saw him smil-
ing in triumph, and —I had drunk the wine !
Pie said nothing as I strode out into the
air. He had, I suppose, mesmerised me, if
it was only for a moment. I was ashamed
of it; it was what I had reckoned, in the
pride of my strength of body and will, no
man could do. In my resentment my incli-
nation was to throw up my position and
leave; yet my shame was a curious bar. I
felt disinclined to tell him I was going,
because of the humiliation of admitting that
I had been a victim of his mesmeric powders.
In a few weeks I realised that I had
lost the opportunity of going; invisible
chains, mighty in their strength, had bound
me to the house. Gourlay had mesmerised
me again; and hotly then, as soon as I had
my clear senses back, I had protested. He
only smiled when, resenting his grinning in-
difference to my protest, I told him I was
going to leave him.
“You won’t do anything so foolish,” he
said.
Although I had made up my mind to leave
next day. I did not. A ridiculous indecision
fell upon me ; always it was the next day I
would go, until one night, after again I had
felt my senses drift completely into his
power, I went upstairs and began to throw
my belongings into my suitcases.
The handle of the locked door rattled
whilst I was doing it. A mad fear fell upon
me, causing me to check all movement, even
that of breathing, and fall into complete
silence, hoping that Gourlay would go.
“Open the door,” his voice commanded
from the other side.
I determined not to
do so; but when he
repeated the order,
even whilst there was
in my heart a sort of
frantic despair at my
weakness, I obeyed.
“So!” he said, standing and looking at my
preparations for departure with eyes that
seemed on fire. He stood like that for a
moment; then, I cannot say under what
impulse, I began to place my clothes back in
cupboards and drawers, bitterly ashamed of
my weakness, yet unable to resist an order
that his mind had conveyed to mine.
When I had finished lie was standing by
my elbow, a glass which held something that
looked like wine in his hand.
“Drink it,” he said.
I wanted to throw it in his face and fol-
low it up with my fists, old man though he
was ; but the power of doing what I myself
willed seemed to have left me completely.
The room began to twist around me, and I
felt Gourlay helping me to my bed.
When I woke I was not in my bed, but
sprawled,on a chair in that study of his, with
its test-tubes and phials of chemicals. A
stiffness was in my limbs I had never known
before, even after doubling a strenuous foot-
ball match in the afternoon and a hard
wrestling bout at night; my bones seemed
to creak as I raised myself. Feeling too
tired to think how I had come to be in that
study, I stumbled upstairs to my bed, neglect-
ing even to switch on the electric light.
I staggered back as I was about to throw
myself down, for there was someone lying
there —staggered back to switch on the light
that immediately flooded the room! The
next moment I was staring down on the
figure stretched on the bed. —obviously a dead
body.
A nightmare moment! For that body, still
and already cold, was my own! „
Heaven knows what confusion of thought
rushed’ through my mind in the next few
moments. It was, of course, all a night-
mare ; a hellish imposture forced upon me
by that fiend Gourlay, whom I should cer-
tainly leave in the morning. To break the
spell of it I screamed, and shortly the ser-
vants rushed in.
“He is certainly dead,” said Travers, who
was valet and general factotum; and his face
had a look of queer suspicion. Then, turning
to me, he added: “I suppose I had better
get the doctor, Mr. Gourlay?”
Mr. Gourlay! I wheeled from him to the
long mirror in the wardrobe; and in the
glass, staring back at me, I saw the face of
Peter Gourlay.
It was still a nightmare, of course; and
unendurable as it was, there was still the
consolation that it must shortly pass. People
moved about me, but I did not want to think
of them. Dr. Hamilton came and spoke to
me.
“Heart failure,” he said. “The young fel-
low was an ajnazingly fine specimen of man-
hood, but there was just that one weakness
—due no doubt to past overstrain. - And
then some sudden shock —but what could
have been the shock?”
“I do not know,” I
said dully.
“Some news he had
received, perhaps,” he
surmised. “M a y b e
some fright in the
night. Still, there is
no doubt that the
death was from natu-
ral causes.”
Gradually my mind
settled down to the
understanding that an
apparent impossibility
had happened. I was
dead; and yet I was
Peter Gourlay and
alive.
Once I had accepted
this position, even as
everyone accepted me,
I set about to search for
f//// some explanation. I had
y/ Peter G outlay’s keys and
/ started to investigate the
' contents of the bureau in his
study. Masses of the papers did
not interest me at all; but, as if by
some latent impulse, I was led to a
special drawer.
In it were filed pages of meaningless
figures and formulas. The only other
document was a will; its contents held
me spellbound.
Duly attested, and of recent date, it was
the will of Peter Gourlay, bequeathing all
his property to “my secretary and adopted
son, Peter Gourlay, otherwise known as Hec-
tor Dowker.”
Gradually I pieced together a theory of
the plot. Gourlay, who thought of nobody
but liifhself, had boasted that he had dis-
covered a means by which life—his life —
could be prolonged indefinitely. Obviously his
own carcase nearing the end of its days, he
had evolved some process for the trans-
ference of personality ; and my young athletic
body had been selected for his experiment.
But he had never known—l had never told
him —of that heart weakness which had been
unable to resist the shock evidently involved
in the transference.
The more I considered it the more I
was satisfied with my reasoning. The old
man had planned so that when he lived as
Hector Dowker, he could become possessed of
his own property ; he had no doubt considered
that it would be easy to get rid of an old
mau, shocked, even as I was now, by the
undesired transference of personality. And
in his drawer he had left a formula which
would enable him to continue his horrible
pursuit of renewed youth in the future, trans-
ferring to one young body after another.
I laughed as I thought of it! He had
(Continued on page 53.)


COME NORTH
Where the Sun is A lways Shining and the Sky
is Clear
WORLD TRAVELLERS Say: North Queensland is Fairyland. Scenery
Rivals the Best Anywhere. Whitsunday Passage and Hinchinbrook
Channel Surpass in intrinsic Beauty the most-famed Waterways or
the World.
CALM, CORAL SEAS, ISLAND-GEMMED, REEF-SHELTERED.
Vast Pastoral Plains, Artesian Bore
*-
~
BARRON GORGE, CAIRNS RAILWAY, NORTH QUEENSLAND.
QUEENSLAND
For FINEST RAILWAY SCENIC TRIP,
Brisbane to Cairns-Barron Falls, through
vast Sugar Plantations and Tropical
Fruit Farms.
QUEENSLAND
GREAT WATERFALLS, CRATER
LAKES, CAVES, Tropical Blooms and
Colored Foliage,
Inquire regarding Bookings jor Railways RESO W imer rours.
Booklets and all Particulars Free from
Government Intelligence and Tourist Bureau
Ann-Edward Streets, BRISBANE.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
56 Margaret Street.
T. C. TROEDSON,
Director
i i
rz
i i
/ / /
/ 1111
There’s a
big responsibility
attached to your coaster hub.
It must give smooth, effortless
running, and it must pull you up
the moment you press your foot
back there must be no uncer-
tainty and no risk.
The B.W. Coaster Hub amply
fulfils these conditions. Its
perfectly
dustproof shell
ensures sweet running, its
wide braking surface means
perfect safety.
It is a product of Bayliss, Wiley
& Co. Ltd., Birmingham, England
represented in Australia by
JOHN ARNOLD, Hardware
House, 386 Post Office Place,
Melbourne, C. 1.
k
.
BW
G.P.O. Box 71.
DISTRIBUTORS:
Melbourne: Acme Cycle Co.
Sydney: Williams, Dredge and
Haydon, Ltd.
Brisbane: J. H. Cowley & Co.,
Ltd.
Perth: Atkins (W.A.), Ltd.
New Zealand—
Adams, Ltd.
Hope’ Gibbons, Ltd.
E. Reynolds & Co., Ltd.
BAYLISS, WILEY
AND 00., LTD.,
Birmingham,
England.
d
INFLUENZA AGAIN
STOP ITS PROGRESS
KEEP THESE INSTRUCTIONS
According to hospital
authorities influenza is again .
prevalent in N. S. Wales, and
sufferers are advised to take all
precautions, as neglect of this ailment
generally leads to pneumonia. It’s
a sure sign of your getting influenza
if your head aches, your eyes run
and redden, your back pains you,
or your throat is sore. The first
thing to do is go straight to bed
and keep warm —it’s sheer madness
to try and fight it off—you might
win, but the chances are you will
finish up with something more
serious. So be sensible and go to
bed, and keep the bowels open
(preferably with castor oil). Then
every two or three hours take half
a teaspoonful of concentrated
Heenzo (straight from the original
bottle) in half a wineglass of hot
water. The medicinal properties of
Heenzo will keep the influenza germ
in check and open the pores of the
skin, causing the patient to perspire
freely. To guard against a relapse
DON’T leave the bed until twenty-
four hours after the temperature has
abated. To soothe the throat and
ease the chest in cases where the
coughing is troublesome, take either
Heenzo made up as a family cough
syrup (instructions on the bottle)
or Heenzo Cough Diamonds, the
wonderfully effective cough jubes
that are medicated with Heenzo.
One of the features of Heenzo is
that it is absolutely pure and does
not contain any poisons, therefore
there is no danger of overdosing,
and it can be given with perfect
safety to even the youngest baby.
As well as being a wonderfully
efficient remedy for chest and throat
ailments, Heenzo is a great money-
saver. A two-shilling bottle of
concentrated Heenzo, when added
to sweetened water, makes a family
supply equal in quantity and superior
in quality to eight ordinary-sized
bottles of the usual made-up cough
remedies that would cost up to £l.
You will be delighted with the
speedy way Heenzo soothes sore
throats, eases the chest and banishes
coughs, colds, croup, bronchitis,
influenza and whooping cough.
Order a bottle of Heenzo from your
chemist or store to-day, and keep
it handy for use at the first sign of
chest and throat ailments. An
ounce of prevention is worth a
ton of cure.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
■v 7 RACING CONFERENCE
N.z! TROTTING CONFERENCE
v’r/ WTTXTS ASSOCIATION
Vz GUN CLUBS assoc ;IATION
N.z’. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISLAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAL ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNEL CLUB
N.Z. GOLF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. POLO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to — „
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of the World’s Leading
Advertising Agencies.
Is baby thriving ?
ď
Food
Keg. Trade Mark.
In cases of difficult feed-
ing Bepger*s gives valuable
help. A change to Benger s
Food at three months has
proved the turning point to
many weakly infants.
Benger s Food always is prepared
for use with fresh cows milk.
Send for Benger s Booklet, post free.
BENGER’S FOOD. Ltd„
3SO, George Street, SYDNEY.
If any illustration in * THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.


THE PUBLIC
PAYS
for Lack of Discipline
among the Mine-
workers.
From 1918 to 1928 there were 2898
separate strikes on the Northern Field,
with a Wages Loss of £6,362,322.
Petty Strikes, Absenteeism and Failure
by the Unions to Control Members have
added seriously to the cost of producing
coal.
The Mine-workers Themselves Have
Suffered by Intermittent and Steadily-
decreasing Employment .
Every Employer has the right to select the
labor he needs, suitable for the duties to be
undertaken. Mr. Justice Higgins thus laid it
down in the Federal Arbitration Court:—
“The Court leaves every employer free
to choose his Employees on their merits
and according to exigencies; free to
make use of new machines or improved
methods”... .
The Employers, by Demanding Discipline and
Free Selection of Employees, are Trying to Save
the Industry and Protect the Employees.
LESS PAY PER DAY
BUT MORE MONEY
PER FORTNIGHT
Publication authorised by C. M. McDONALD,
Chairman Northern Collieries Association, Sydney.
THE AUSTRALIAN MUSEUM MAGAZINE.
A Quarterly Journal, profusely illustrated, dealing with Australian Natural History.
APRIL-JUNE NUMBER NOW AVAILABLE. VOL. 111. PART 10.
CONTENTS: , Tw
niTTonm PYPT OR ATTON OF THE SEAS, by Dr. C. Anderson, M.A. MARINE ANIMALS FROM
EDITORIAL. EXPLORAWON Ol LUg f and W . Boardman. ABORIGINAL ADAPTABILITY,
lA)AV ISLES, QUEENSLAND by c,. r. w i SWAMP by A . Musgrave. AN EEL-FARE at
PARRAMATTA 01 by £ AT QUIDONG, by H. O. Fletcher.
NATURALISTS’ IN AUSTRALIA—THE FRENCHMEN, by Tom Iredale.
OBTAINABLE AT THE MUSEUM AND BOOKSELLERS. «
ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION, 4s. 4d. (posted) ; per Single Copy, Is. Id. (posted).
NATURAL HISTORY POSTCARDS.
Representations of interesting forms of the unique Australian Fauna.
AUSTRALIAN MAMMALS. 6 studies in color Per set of A. J 8 */ DOstecn
A TTQTT? AT T A‘NT ‘RT’RT'm *3O it] color. PGF SCfc 01 5 (With. DOOKIGt J, IS. I.U. vPOSLGCI).
succeeded, but he had failed —failed because
he did not know there was a diseased heart
in the body he planned to possess. Here
I had a sort of triumph over him ; by ins
ghastly plotting lie had robbed himself of
a bodily habitation!
I, at least, had his; and yet how bitterly
had he robbed me—-of my youth, my middle-
age! I had skipped from the threshold of
manhood to the brink of the grave.
As I grew used to being recognised as Peter
Gourlay I determined to make the best of
the affluence that he Lad left me; yet always
was that despairing bitterness. It drove
me to horrible thoughts and impulses. Some-
times I found myself puzzling over that
formula, nursing a hope that even I might
carry out Gourlay’s idea, and so win back
the youth I had lost. There must have been
something of Gourlay’s personality lingering
in my brain-cells; when my own asserted
itself I loathed the idea I had entertained.
So intensely, indeed, that one day I tore
the whole file of figures and formulas to
threads, and burnt them piece by piece.
Yet his personality still struggles to exert
itself, so that I often catch myself trying to
recall the mysterious symbols and note them
down.
The climax came one night when I had
been tossing in a nightmare ; and it seemed
that Gourlay was determined to cheat
me. My thought flew to the will, which I
bad stowed, with some vague feeling of
its importance, in a drawer in my room,
No sooner had the idea come than I was
looking at the document, glad to see it was
safe. Something prompted me then to turn
quickly towards my bed.
There was the body of Peter Gouriay —
mine, by strange inheritance—lying asleep
but troubled, and over it what appeared to
be a formless shadow.
I—whatever there was of me that could
look upon and see myself asleep—rushed
back to my bodily habitation; but there
was something that resisted me. With what-
ever it was, I fought in a frenzied despera-
tion. It seemed that for long minutes I
was being forced back, overcome. I was pant
mg and covered with cold sweat when the
servants rushed in, switching on the lights,
aroused, as they told me, by my cries
Since then I have ordered that the lights
in my room shall always be alight when
darkness comes: and I have attendants ever
near to come to my call. Yet, night atter
night, I have felt Peter Gouriay near me in
my dreams, his old mesmeric influence
steadily gaining the mastery,
And I know that ™ ie . I fp 1 I rl £ of I etei
Gouriay, cheated of the youthful body he had
planned to seize, is fighting me for the
body that was his. But I will resist lnm
to the last. Even as I write the horror of
his presence is upon me.
The Joke.
A CHEERFUL LITTLE 8,TORY WITH_8M{LH8 ALLJTHROUGH IT, BY
J. NEWMAN
A WESTRALIAN WRITER.
A WELL-INFORMED man like yourself
will be familiar with Stevenson’s “Dr.
Jekyll and Mr. Hyde.” When I first
read the story it impressed me _ immensely;
with a curious result, as you will see. later.
I knew, or thought I knew, cases similar to
that of the unfortunate Jekyll, the chief dif-
ference being that my cases did not change
the shape of their bodies when they changed
the shape of their minds.
A good many people seem to think it pos-
sible. When they change from strong, healthy
men and women to weaklings by foolish
living they think I can turn them into good
shape again by giving them a black draught
colored red or a couple .of pills. That s one
of the reasons I’m sitting here -in comfort
waiting for the value of my blocks of fiats
in Darlinghurst to rise.
Well, about four years ago a chap came
into my surgery with two big razor slashes
across his face. It did not take a detective
to tell that he was a gangster. He was a
little man, very neatly dressed, with very
pointed shoes and the hat in his hand had a
curly brim and no dent in the crown. His
face, when I had washed away the clotted
blood, showed a sharp and chin; and I
had noticed that his eyes were sharp, sus-
picious and shifty. His hands were long,
thin and soft, but blunt at the ends, and he
had well-scraped finger-nails.
The wounds were deep and had been made
about twelve hours previously. It was only
the fear of very bad disfigurement which had
driven him to me at all. But dirt had
entered the scars, and he had to come to me
pretty often. I didn’t say anything about
payment, though I’m usually particular with
people who have not been recommended to
me; and the gangster said nothing, either.
He told me his name was . Frank Lisle, and
seemed as happy as a bird when I spelt
“Lisle” right first time.
When the scars were beginning to heal he
disappeared and I thought I had seen the
last of him. But I saw him hanging about
near Rawson-place one day, and I grabbed
him and took him to the surgery in a taxi.
“Look here,” I said, “I fixed you up and
never asked you for any money, meaning to
take only as much as you could afford. And
now you sneak off, with your face not pro-
perly healed, and I don’t even get thanks
from you. Haven’t you any decency at all?
“As true as I live, mister,” he said, “Ive
been trying to get a job and pay.you.’
“You have, have you? Where did you work
before you lost your job?”
He said lie had a little shop of his own.
“Yes?” I said. “Address?”
He gave me an address.
“What was the name of the agent?”
That stumped him, and he owned up in
such a way that we became quite friendly.
He came to see me more than once and gave
me some extremely interesting glimpses of
what newspapers call “the underworld. ’
He was a “tea-leaf” —a pickpocket. A good
one in a good way of business. “Grouse,”
he called it. Reared in a family of trick-
sters, thieves and street-women. Razors were
not a means of livelihood, merely of defence.
As he became more confidential it appeared
that my watch and spare cash remained in
my possession chiefly because I was a
“head.” A “head,” from what I could gather,
is a man who ascribes his loss to the correct
quarter and causes trouble to hard-working
pickpockets and other tradesmen.
The fact that he owed me some gratitude
did not appear to weigh with him in the
slightest. He considered gratitude the pre-
rogative of “gays,” which, he explained,
meant “mugs.” He had often done people
a good turn in his journey through life, but
took care that he got something for it.
Besides, it made him popular and lessened
his chance of being “shelfed” by his asso-
ciates.
Gratitude in itself was a weakness, pity
a weakness, and any kind of avoidable work
the greatest weakness of all. It was not a
matter of ethics with him. It was a mental
state. His attitude towards relieving a “gay”
of his purse was the same as that of a
shearer relieving a sheep of its wool. If
he were “pinched” that was one of the risks
of the game—just as a shearer might cut
his hand. He was intelligent, though, and
such a good talker that I caught myself won-
dering at times whether honesty was, after
all. quite so important as it is supposed
to be.
Anyhow, about this time I read Dr.
Jekyll and Mr. Hyde.” I looked on * Lisle
as a Mr. Hyde with the good Dr. Jekyll
somewhere about him, and I determined to
draw it out and if possible give it control of
his person. I took just the interest in him
that a stamp-collector takes in stamps or
a golfer in golf. In other words, it took
that mild form of dementia which is called
an obsession. I attacked him at his only
vulnerable spots—his reason and his self-
respect. ,
“Don’t you see your foolishness in con-
tinuing your present life V” I asked him.
“How?” , . t
“You can never hope to have a lot ot
money. You are liable to be taken by the
police and to do as much work for nothing
or next to nothing as would bring you m
a good sum in wages. You can never trust
anyone about you. You talk about being
popular. You know that the very fact, ot
your being popular might cause _ jealousy
and get you ‘shelfed,’ as you call it. Don-
sicler also that you have to sliuk into. decent
company where another man walks in with
his head high and his chest thrown out.
“Yes, but can you tell me where 111 get
as much as X make now with as little work t
“Yes, I can. I don’t work any harder than
you. Dozens of men work even less hard
and make more in a year than you would
make in live —though they all worked hard
to start with, often for very little.”
Gradually I won him over. He took a
solemn oath in front of me that henceforth
he "would fear the police and honor the law.
Other people’s pockets would be inviolate.
He would be so straight that people would
use him to rule lines with. The mantle of
honesty in word and deed he would wrap
around him so tightly that it would grow
into his skin, and forthwith he would travel
up-country and begin the better life in the
wide-open spaces where honest men raised
honest crops and earned honest money, which
they brought to town so that people such
as he had been might live.
I lent him two pounds for his train fare,
and he sent it back a month later with a
formal letter of thanks for the loan.
About twelve months after that _he re-
appeared looking very fit. I asked him how
things were in the country.
“I have finished with that part of the
country,” he said.
“Why?” I asked.
“I will tell you. For twelve months I
worked for a cocky named Black. When I
first took up my duties I observed that the
other man on the farm used to drink some
of the milk which should have been handed to
the farmer. Naturally I could not see my em-
ployer robbed in. this way. I told him of
the dishonesty, with the result that the
man quarrelled with the farmer and was dis-
missed. Before he left he struck me. I
could easily have beaten him in a fight as
my razor lay at hand, but I ran away and
finally laid a complaint with the local police-
man. Whether he took any action I do not
know, but from that time on I had to put
up with insults and sneers from various
other men in the district.
“When the wheat was harvested and the
bags sewn and ready for the siding, Mr.
Black told me to deliver a number of the
bags to a. neighbor named White. Now I
knew that the bank had a lien on Black’s
crop; and as White had no lien he could
sell these bags of wheat as his own, passing
the money to Black.
“I taxed my employer with this; but
instead of being ashamed as an honest man
should be, he felled me with a blow. When
I recovered my senses he ordered me off
his farm.
“When I told the bank manager of this
disgraceful state of affairs, he merely advised
me to keep my mouth shut, as he was well
able to look after his business without my
assistance. Then, when I attempted to
obtain work elsewhere in the district, I got
nothing but abuse. So I intend to try some
other part of the country where I may find
people more law-abiding and honest.”
I had intended to give him some advice
and encouragement, but before X could start,
he spoke again. “By the way,” he asked,
“who is the lady I saw leaving your con-
sulting-room?”
“A patient of mine,” I said.
“Well, I recognise her as a client I
relieved of a chain purse with about three
pounds in it just before I first met you.
I know where I can lay hands on that
purse, and I would like your help in restoring
the lady’s property. I hope the loss of her
purse did not prevent her from getting medi-
cal attendance.
I told him the lady had plenty of money,
more than she knew how to spend.
“And yet,” he said pensively, “in spite of
her wealth she is an ailing woman.”
Then I made my mistake. I told him
that the lady’s ailments were imaginary.
“And what does she say when you tell
her that?”
“Oh,” I said, not dreaming how hard his
hideous honesty had gripped him, “I don’t
tell her. She says my medicine does her
good. Her money does me good and every
body is satisfied.” I smiled —like an idiot.
He stood for a long time looking at me
with an expression of bewildered horror.
His eyes opened until I could see the whites
all round. „ , .
When I’d had enough of this stare _ot
his I asked him sharply when he was going
to return the purse of money.
He swallowed hard twice and I was
afraid he was developing hysteria, but he
pulled himself together. “Doctor,” he said,
and I saw he was shaking all over, “you’ve
put one over on me proper. Honest? Holy
Smoke! I admit I w r as crook, but I didn’t
pretend to be anything else. If the old
sheilah -yvants that purse slie’ll have to find
it. Good-bye.”
Poor old Lisle ! He had no sense of pro-
portion. He was “pinched,” as he called it,
about a week later. I saw it in the papers
and visited him in prison. He took it very
kindly, all things considered, and said l
was a good pal, ten thousand times better
than the blankards that said they were Ins
pals and wouldn’t come near a bloke that
was out of luck. . ,
But something seemed to prey on his mind
and he went out of prison into an asylum
for observation. I see him there sometimes
yet. He is always glad to see me and is
practically all right now. Only occasionally
he sits down, apparently for no reason, and
giggles for half an hour on end as though
he was thinking of some great joke.


!
T
m
*
0*
%
N
r
S'.
h
TjMjj
I:
,1
A SMARTER SIX
Decided improvements in body design make Dodge
Brothers Standard Six a much smarter car with wider
and more comfortable seats and a far more luxurious
interior with richer appointments.
In performance the Standard Six easily lives up to
Dodge Brothers reputation for constructing cars of
exceptional flexibility and pick-up, and riding ease
under all road conditions.
Value and economy are stressed in this powerful and
beautiful motor car.
Dodge Brothers complete line of passenger vehicles includes
the Standard Six, the Victory Six and the Senior Six,
Canada Cycle & Motor Co., (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane—-Townsville
Harden and Johnston, Ltd., Sydney
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
Northern Automobiles, Ltd., Auckland, 2f.Z.
Amuri Motors, Ltd. .. Christchurch, 2i.Z.
Gossetts and Black , Ltd. .. Dunedin , HJS.
P. H. Vickery, Ltd. .. Invercargill, N.Z,
Newton King, Ltd. .. New Plymouth, N.Z.
Magnus Motors, Ltd. .. Wellington, NJS.
□dee Brothers
STANDARD SIX
iis/o/^9.


SERVICE
—with&Siml
V;v> °;*-
<' c , r s°’ a «t e .sc-
VU’
pV
-ftt' c ° {\' * e ,
c#? AC ’ s * V°' tot"
'vO*
Tariff .from £3 I®/- weekly
saoSVENOR
/* Finest Unlicensed UioteL
Opp. Railway Sin.. North Terrace.
EVERY BLEMISH
REMOVED IN A FEW DAYS.
I will tell every reader of this paper how
FREE.
YOUR COMPLEXION MAKES
OR MARS YOUR APPEARANCE.
Miss Grace Duncan, former actress, now offers to tell men
and women who are interested in the matter of the most
remarkable complexion treatment ever known. Stubborn
cases have been cured that baffled beauty-specialists for
d
ď
years. You have never in all your life used or heard of anything like it. Makes
muddy complexions, red spots, pimples, blackheads, freckles, eruptions vanish. No
cream, lotion, enamel, salve, plaster, bandage, mask, massage, diet or apparatus,
nothing to swallow. It doesn’t matter whether or not your complexion is a “fright,
whether you face is full of muddy spots, peppery blockheads, embarrassing pimples
and eruptions, or whether your skin is rough and “porey,” and you’ve tried almost
everything under the sun to get rid of the blemishes. This treatment in just a few days
removes blemishes and beautifies your skin in a marvellous way. You look years
younger. It gives the skin the bloom and tint of purity of a freshly-blown rose. In a
short while you can be the subject of admiration by all your friends, no matter what
your age or condition of health. There is nothing to wear, nothing to take internally.
Your face, even arms, hands, shoulders, are beautiful beyond your fondest dreams.
All this Miss Duncan will absolutely prove to you within a few days. This treatment
is absolutely harmless to the most delicate skin and very pleasant to use. No change
in your mode of living necessary. A few minutes dally does it. To every reader of
this paper Miss Grace Duncan will give full details of this really astonishing treatment
Lei her show you. You risk nothing. Send three penny stamps for postage and your
name and address to Miss Duncan, who will give you full details by return mail.
MISS GRACE DUNCAN (Suite B 7), 195 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
A wonderful
bodybuilder
d
is always
fresh & pure
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists & Stores
The lawyer who walked on the shady side
of the street evidently thought some ex-
planation was necessary.
“I am-ar here,” he said in his drawling
voice, “with my client-ar, Mr. Carducci,
to assist him in his-ar business with you.
It is purely-ar a matter of form, I told him
so. He is quite safe in the hands of such
an honorable gentleman as yourself.”
The Italian gave a doubting grunt.
“What business?” asked Felspar, taking
up his brushes, and resuming painting.
“Ah, you forget,” said Carducci. “You
play the fool, eh?” he added with a forced
laugh.
“No, I’m not playing the fool.”
“Did you not say, ‘Come to-day and I
pay you’?” asked Carducci.
“I did not. You claimed £lOO as a right,
after I offered to give you £lO as a volun-
tary gift.”
“Is that not-ar begging the question?”
remarked Pinch. “Do you not owe Mr.
Carducci one hundred pounds as his share-ar
of a picture you sold. That was, he tells
me, the agreement-ar with you, if he and
his daughter sat for the picture.”
“Your client has misinformed you. There
was no such agreement,” replied Felspar,
ceasing from painting, and facing them.
“Pardon! Mistere Felspar make me that
promise, he do; my daughter she hear.”
“You are a liar,” said Felspar sharply.
“Do not call Mr. Carducci a liar. That-ar
is actionable,” said Mr. Pinch.
“Pouf! Not I care what he call me. He
pay,” exclaimed Carducci, pointing a fat
finger at the artist.
“I don’t think I will,” replied Felspar.
“No?” shouted the Italian angrily. “You
the fool if you not pay. Mr. Pinch he
know too much for you, eh!”
“What do you mean?” asked Felspar.
“My client-ar should not have said that.
It sounds-ar like intimidation. But you
understand, Mr. Felspar, and will make
every allowance. He is an Italian and
Italians are so excitable. Personally, I
should be sorry indeed to be forced to dis-
close anything that a gentleman-ar has kept
secret-ar for years, for his own reasons.”
“For his own reasons,” echoed the Italian.
“Ah, yes” Mr. Pinch smacked his
lips with unctuous satisfaction—“secret
from his friends.”
“I don’t understand you. Will you please
explain?” asked Felspar.
“That would-ar be painful to me,” replied
Mr. Pinch. “I am sure-ar it could not be
otherwise than most painful to you. Let
us settle our business. Let us have your-
ar-ar cheque for one hundred pounds, and
say no more about the-ar unpleasant past,”
urged Mr. Pinch persuasively.
“Unpleasant past! Who are you, any-
how?” asked Felspar aggressively.
“I am Jjfmes Pinch, lawyer, with, I may
modestly say-ar, an international practice.
I represent some-ar of the most important
people in Paris.”
Pinch Felspar as he spoke that last
word.
“Yes,” chimed Carducci, “he knows much
they do in Paris.”
“He knows a lot then,” observed the
artist.
“Since you appear, Mr. Felspar, to
doubt-ar my bona fides,” said Pinch, “I
may tell you that in the course of my large
and confidential business I have learned-ar
from my agents in Paris that you married
an artist’s model whom you beaied-ar—
well, not-ar too well. I will recall to your
mind, since you may have forgotten it,
that when the young woman was-ar your
mistress you gave her a cameo brooch,
a rather unique present, representing some
dancing fauns. Possibly a sight of the
brooch may refresh your memory. Do you
recognise the brooch?”
Pinch handed the brooch to Felspar.
He was dumbfounded. He could not sur-
mise how Pinch obtained his information,
nor how he came by the cameo brooch.
His discomfiture was too plain to be con-
cealed.
“I see,” said Pinch, “I am not-ar mistaken.
You did treat her badly, you do not-ar
deny that? The poor girl, she threw herself
into the Seine. Is that not true?”
“Who told you that? What was her
name?” asked Felspar, thinking of the mis-
taken certificate of death.
Before the lawyer could answer, Carducci
said: “Her name was Lisette Delas.”
“Then it was you, you rogue, who stole
the death certificate from my wallet?” said
Felspar confident ly.
“Pouf! I was not stealing. I bring it
back here,” said Carducci with a wave of
his fat hand.
“That’s not true. You did not return
it,” declared Felspar.
“Permit-ar me,” said Pinch blandly. “It
was I who returned it, as I now return to
you the brooch, which was removed from
the dress of your unfortunate wife when
her corpse was taken to the Paris morgue.
My client-ar had no right to borrow the
death certificate, even as a joke, an ill-timed
one; but foreigners have a queer sense of
humor when judged by our standards, Mr.
Felspar. lam sorry-ar indeed that this un-
pleasantness-ar has arisen. It is quite
foreign to our business. Naturally you
would not like the particulars of how you
treated your late wife made known to your
friends, to the young lady-ar whom you
desire to become your wife. I’m sure Mr.
Carducci can-ar be trusted to keep silent.
I, as a lawyer, keep such things to myself.
Shall I-ar give you a receipt for the hundred
pounds?”
“And what will happen if I refuse to pay
you one hundred pounds?” asked Felspar.
“In that case-ar —well, I’m afraid—but,
there, you will pay. It’s my client’s right
—his share, shall we say-ar, out of the sale
of the picture?”
“I don’t intend to pay Carducci a bean,”
declared Felspar firmly.
“What!” exclaimed Carducci astonished.
“You put a swindle on me?” and his fingers
flew to his breast.
“Do not, I beg of you, draw your knife,”
pleaded Pinch, stepping towards his client.
“In your temper you do not know what
may happen.”
“Ah! Ah!” growled Carducci. “My blood
it does grow hot. I will not be swindled,
no, I tell you.”
Carducci rose from his chair, and
approached Felspar threateningly, Pinch
holding the Italian’s arm.
“This is blackmail,” exclaimed Felspar.
“I will not submit to it. I tell you, you
shall not blackmail me.”
Then Carducci drew his knife.
At this moment the Superintendent and
the two detectives, followed by Clinton,
stepped out of their hiding-places. With a
swift movement, Carducci replaced his blade
in its sheath. Pinch retreated towards the
door of the studio, but Felspar had taken
a stand to intercept him.
“What is the meaning of this—this
dramatic nonsense?” asked Mr. Pinch in a
tremulous tone.
“It means we have caught you in the
act, of attempting to blackmail this man,”
said the Superintendent.
“We were-ar doing nothing of the sort.
Let me pass!”
“Oh no, Mr. Pinch, we are keeping you,”
the officer explained with a smile.
“Let me pass, I say! Otherwise you
will hear from us in a day or two.”
“You \yill both come to the Detective
Office.”
“What for? Do you know that I am an
officer of the court?” Pinch demanded with
a pompous display of dignity.
“I’m the superintendent. I know you,
Mr. Pinch. You are old enough in pro-
cedure to understand that you must go
with us.”
“You have no warrant. I shall report-ar
your action to the Commissioner. I can
assure you, as a lawyer-ar of forty years’
experience, that you are taking a great
responsibility. What is the charge against
us, may I inquire?”
“You’ll be told at the Detective Office,”
said the Superintendent curtly. “Come
along. Take The knife, run him over, and
handcuff him,” he said to Detective Bal-
shire.
Carducci, without protest, handed his
knife to the detective. A moment later he
overflowed in a torrent of abuse.
“Ha,” he said. “Now, Mistere Felspar,
the truth shall you know. Your wife is now
alive in Sydney. So!—for your love for
the girl Calcroft! You trap me, clever
Mistere Felspar! Your wife she is not
dead. Ah! Not so easily to lose her from
New Caledonia, eh? Ha! Ha!' The devil,
eh?”
To Felspar it was unspeakable humili-
ation. The man was a wicked liar, yet some-
how his words rang true.
“Come on, Mr. Pinch,” ordered the ser-
geant roughly, “and no damn nonsense!”
“Understand,” said Pinch to the sergeant,
“I was only here-ar attending my client in
a professional capacity. Indeed, since you
heard-ar what passed, you know that it was
I who restrained him from violence.”
“Tell me,” said Mr. Clinton to Carducci,
“how do you know that Mr. Felspar’s wife
is alive?”
“Ah, I speak to her. Some day soon she
coming back to him. So pretty, eh, Mistere
Felspar! Love, eh? Ah! See the paint-
ing.” Carducci indicated with a nod a
picture of a woman’s head, hanging,
unframed, on the wall. “Ah, you not tell
vour friends. Mistere Felspar, the lady there
is your wife, eh?”
Mr. Clinton looked at the picture. “Is
that true?” he asked.
“Yes,” replied Felspar, quietly.
“Come on, you two,” said the sergeant.
Mr. Pinch, very red in the face, was de-
claring that he submitted to arrest only
under the “strongest protest,” otherwise he
would have resisted, as he had every right
to do, under Common Law.
“Come on, Mr. Pinch,” said the Superin-
tendent, gripping the old man’s arm. “You
are not in court; so you can save your
breath.”
“I protest-ar, I protest-ar” were the
last words Clinton heard as the two men
were taken downstairs.
« * * *
When the detectives and their charges
were gone, Felspar stared blankly at Mr.
Clinton, who Was, as he afterwards described
it, “knocked into a cocked hat” by Car-
ducci’s venomous outburst.
The dramatic disclosure by the Italian
that the picture on the wall was a painting
of Felspar’s wife came as a very unpleasant
surprise to Clinton. Why had not the
artist, told him of the picture’s existence,
since Felspar had sought his help in this
devilish business? Felspar went down several
points in his estimation.
“I cannot understand,” he said to Fel-
spar, in an aggrieved tone, “why you
omitted to tell me you had a painting of
your wife?”
“I did not think it would be of the
smallest interest to you,” the artist replied.
“That’s nonsense, Felspar. Any man
advising you in the case would be curious
to see the woman’s face. She’s alive with
interest when a man knows her chequered
career. What avas the reason why you
held back from showing me the picture?
Or even telling me you had it? You must
have a sentimental regard still for the
woman, else why would you keep her
picture?”
“You are quite wrong,” said Felspar with
some heat. “My explanation is simple.
I kept the painting because it is the best
piece of work I have ever done. I have
revealed the character as well as the like-
ness of the woman, and that is what a
portrait painter should do.”
“If it is such a good piece of portrait-
painting, as you say, and you regard ‘it
simply as such and as such are so proud of
it, why did you not show it to me as the
best piece of work you had done?”
“I cannot explain why I did not,” replied
Felspar.
“Well,” Clinton continued, in a more
friendly tone, “it’s, not for me to judge any
man, but I cannot help looking at things
from my standpoint. You told me the
woman was no good. Her face does not
look the face of a bad woman. She left you
with a gesture of contempt, as you have
also told me, yet a picture of her is hang-
ing in your studio. The woman’s face meets
you every day, and it njjist remind you of
how great an ass you were in Paris. Per-
sonally, I think you are a greater ass in
Melbourne to hug the picture when you
haven’t the woman.”
“Oh, that’s uncalled for,” Felspar pro-
tested.
“‘Uncalled for’ be damned! It’s the
truth,” exclaimed Clinton, well into his
stride. “Standing in your shoes, I’d have
got rid of the picture and destroyed every-
thing I had that reminded me of the
woman. A French doll, a ‘butterfly woman,’
who clears out from you with an ‘llelas!’
and you hang on to her picture! I’m afraid.
Felspar, you have not much stomach for
dismissals and other strong moves in life.”
“I’m afraid not,” admitted Felspai', crest-
fallen.
“We are all as God or the Devil made
us,” continued Clinton loftily, “and we
cannot be other than we are, and that even
applies to Carducci. The rogue has my
sneaking admiration for the fight that is
in him when he is driven into tight places.
Did you notice how he showed his teeth
when at bay? He fairly spat the words at
you when he said ‘Your wife’s alive!’”
“Do you think that is true?” asked Fel-
spar in anxious tones.
(Continued on page 58.)
A Meeting.
I swam a lazy distance out from land
To where a weed-fringed, rocky islet
lay.
In ripples gilt by amber-fingered
summer,
Tranquilly washed by each soft-peaked
newcomer.
I sat there, with one foot in the
bright bay,
And turned my back upon the crescent
of sand,
And felt a cool ring close upon my
knee,
A friendly water-fetter, slipping, hold-
ing,
While, winging down, the warm airs
came enfolding;
And all I knew was sunshine and
the sea.
Far, far away, forgotten as grief or
death,
The shore knelt to an older life than
hers.
Oh, wild smell of salt water, mighty
breath
Of vigor and of peace, that calms
and stirs!
Wild colors of salt water, past our
naming,
A fireless opal held in Heaven’s
framing,
With cold and liquid wraiths of other
dyes —
Turquoise and sapphire, emerald and
jade,
Mysterious amethyst in deepening
shade —
In faintly plashing waves that sink
and rise!
Then drifted, like a dream of chulived
light,
Into this lonely and enchanted world,
A hand’s-breadth shallop, delicately
sailing,
An argonaut with dusky streamers
trailing
And arms that clasped her shell so
fairly pearled,
Shaped like a flagon of the frailest
white.
She floated as a waif in strange seas
tossed,
Yet travelled on ivith purpose all-
compelling,
So near the rock-edge home by cur-
rents swelling,
Where but a graze would mean her
treasure lost.
Half in clear wave, half in gold-
powdered air,
Shone the moon-glimmer of the
milky shell.
My hand stretched out to seize such
beauty rare —
Wafted instead good passage and
farewell.
Sail, fluted nautilus, ivith silvery
flasket!
Sail, guardian mother, ivith your
cradle-casket,
And bear to triumph your hope of
life passed on!
So brave, so exquisite, you surely may
Glide through harsh dangers from new
day to day
When man who builds him walls of
stone is gone!
Victoria.
EISIE COLE.


limiting, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £5.000.000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £8.360.965
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1928.. £18,623,153
Directors:
Sir MARK SHELDON. K.8.E., Chairman.
FRANK N. YARWOOD; H. H. LYSAGHT, 0.8. E. ;
GEORGE J. SLY, LL.D. ; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER: C. M. C. SHANNON.
CHIEF INSPECTOR: W. G. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH : 62 Bisliopsgate, E.C.2.
The BANK is represented by 1 86 Branches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, v/ith Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 616,210
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,732,525
GRANTS
DRAFTS
on Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland,
and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
a t interest for
fixed periods
and transacts all other usual Banking: business.
Keep hopping and hoping if vou wish
to succeed —
d
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Ottd.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Officer 44 Bridge Streci, Sydney.
Dbe Dominion.
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily .
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion" is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. POX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
HAS ACCEPTED
®lje
ď
Jlegister
NEWS PICTORIAL
with the utmost enthusiasm.
ALL THE NEWS I
ALL THE PICTURES!
The State’s First Morning
Pictorial.
Largely increased Sales
already assured.
Arrange Contracts at
present rates.
HEAD OFFICE: REGISTER NEWS.
PAPERS, LIMITED, Grenfell Street,
Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative: Eric N. Birks,
Sydney. Tel. X 5187.
Melbourne Representative: G. N.
Bednall, “Argus” Building, Mel-
bourne- Tel. F 4502.
Shipping, etc.
An Unexcelled Chain of Ports
p ICTURESQUE Auckland, favorite sea -
* port of Northern New Zealand; spark-
ling Suva, glowing like a jewel in its setting
of tropical beauty; far-famed Honolulu,
where travellers bask in an endless summer
and a thousand novel sights; such is the
route from Sydney to Vancouver of Can-
adian-Australasian Liners.
ill
its*
vm
m
m
' 'V,
Comfort at Sea
Broad white decks, comfort-
able lounges, well-equipped
cabins, and an ever-appetis-
ing menu combine to make
sea travel by the palatial
Niagara or Aorangi a de-
lightful holiday trip.
Particulars from
UNION STEAM SHIP
COMPANY,
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne, Cl.
S.S. NIAGARA & AORANGI
SVAWY/,
mm
mm
I
■ '
55
m
Si
m
rm
YJ:
A VISIT TO JAVA
(The Garden of the East)
Seven weeks’ wonderful tour, via Brisbane, Queens-
land Ports, Thursday Island, Torres Strait & Darwin,
including 14 days’ escorted motor trip through Java.
Leaving Sydney on the 6th June, 1929, by the
magnificent steamer
“MARELLA,” 7500 TONS
Swimming Bath, Gymnasium, Deck Cabins, Verandah
Cafe, etc.
First-class inclusive round fare covering all
expenses Steamer trip, Hotels, Motor-cars,
Guides, Tips, etc.: —
From Melbourne £135 0 0
From Sydney £129 0 0
From Brisbane ........ £l2B 10 0
BURNS, PH I COMPANY LIP.
SYDNEY AND BRANCH OFFICES
Come and See—See and Stay.
HAWAII
HAWAII
HAWAII
To enable holiday makers and travellers to visit
these beautiful island gems of the South Pacific,
excursion rates are available all the year round.
First-class passages from £75, second-class from
£55, with first-class Hotel Accommodation as
low as from 12/- to £3 per day with meals,
assist the pleasure seeker to make the Hawaiian
Islands the real dream holiday.
Surfing, surfboard-riding, golf, tennis and
motoring (motorists may bring their own cars
or hire one locally at exceptionally low rates),
can all be indulged to the fullest in ideal
surroundings. Inter-island cruises. Visit
Kilauea volcano.
Come, here is the holiday of a lifetime offering
in
HAWAII—HAWAII—HAWAII
Inquire fullest particulars at all steamship or
travel agents, or from this office direct.
HAWAII TOURIST BUREAU,
Dept. 26, Box 162788, G.P.0.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
tThemistocles 11,500 tons, June 10
JRunic .... 12,500 „ July 10
*Ascanius . . 10,000 ~ July 22
f Euripides . 15,000 „ Aug. 6
Nestor .... 15,000 „ Sept. 9
:; 'First class only. fFirst and Third class.
$“ Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson Ltd.
Joint
Agents
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
d
£7,500,000
5,900,000
7,500,000
£20,900,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30. 1928, £88,982,585.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
654 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory,. New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT/ Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the' world.
Shipping, etc,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
• (Transhipping for outports).
FOR BRISBANE. MACKAY, TOWNSVILLE, CAIRNS
(Transhipping for outports).
Splendid Cheap Service
Via Suez Canal
FAST OIL BURNERS
In conjunction with Sailings via Soutli Africa.
Excellent Menu. Late Dinner.
Fares to London from £3B.
P. 8 0. BRANCH SERVICE
For particulars apply
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Box 513 AA, 5 o’Conn3!l St., Sydney.
’Phone : BG7OI
BRISBANE, viaBYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening ; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR- —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £ 7/C/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart Parker Lyn
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDAIIT PARKER LIMITED
lolllne Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
ASTHMA
Catarrh, Bronchitis,
Whooping Cough,
Colds in the Head
Yield at once
to the soothing
fumes of
.A 3 I niVIA .
VgpwpjjjU^
2/6 per Tin from all Medicine
Vendor*.
POTTEB & CLARKE. LTD M
Artillery Lane, London, Eng.
For outdoors, use
Potter's SMOKING
MIXTURE and
CIGARETTES
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.


ALEMITE
Systems of Lubrication
for
PLANTATION
and
FARM
Implements and Machinery
foil*
The same lubricating efficiency as is used
in the modern motor car can now be
installed in machinery and implements used
on plantations and farms.
The Alemite Systems insure correct lubri-
cation because they force in the new lubricant
under a pressure of from 500 to 5000 pounds
per square inch, forcing out at the same time
the old gritty, worn-out grease.
An Inexpensive System
to Install
Alemite or Alemite Push Type Fittings (the
valves through which the lubricant is forced
into the bearings) can easily be installed on
any piece of machinery to which the old style
grease cups are attached. All that is neces-
sary is to unscrew the
old cups and screw in
the Alemite fittings.
The fittings cost only
a few pence.
Plantation and Farm
equipment run much
better and last much longer when equipped
with Alemite.
d
ALEMITE MANUFACTURING CORPORATION
Division of Stewart-Warner
Chicago, U. S. A.
Full Particlars from
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH
Resident Manager,
250 Pitt Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following Representatives :
Bennett & Wood, Ltd 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
Motor Supplies, Ltd Brisbane
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd 894 Hay Street, Perth
E. A. Machin & Co., Ltd. . 535 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
Cornell Limited, 122 Pirie Street, Box G.P.0.,496 E. Adelaide
For the Dominion of New Zealand:
Jas. J. Niven & Co., 152 Wakefeld, Street, Wellington, N. Z.
Violets.
FRANCIS OSBORN
TELLS A TALE OF THE LOVES OF THE ’LOO.
CHARLIE turned the ring over in his
fingers while Solly Brahms watched
' him. Young-men customers for rings
in the ’Loo were as rare as they were usually
profitable. But Charlie’s eyes were not pro-
mising.
“No. It’s too flash,” he said, handing the
ring back to Solly. “I don’t want diamonds.
I want something quiet.”
Solly’s interest considerably reduced, he
pushed the tray over to Charlie.
In the corner, at the end of the bottom
row, there was a small ring of four seed-
pearls and a turquoise. Like a flower it
was. And like Edie herself. It was time
she had a ring, as the lights in Solly
Brahms’s window had reminded him. And
here was a ring, a little shy ring, like herself.
“I’ll take that one,” he told Solly.
“It’s quiet enough,” Solly said.
“Yes. That’s why it'll do me.”
Quiet. Yes, that was right. All the time
he had been at work in Lithgow she had
seemed to haunt him. Couldn't get her out
of his mind. His train had only got in an
hour ago, and here he was buying her a ring.
He smiled a bit at himself. He was floored
all right. In half an hour he’d see her at
the corner of Conley’s fence.
The ’Loo reminded him of her at every
step. After the rattle of the long trip in
the train it seemed to receive him with her
gentleness. That was why he'd fallen for
her so hard. She wasn’t like the ordinary
tarts and flappers you could kick about with;
there was plenty of that sort for you if you
wanted them. But they didn’t give you the
feeling Edie did.
He walked slowly down Cathedral-street,
his mind and personality full of her. It
had been like that in Lithgow. It was time
she had a ring, and time they got married;
the six weeks in Lithgow without her had
been rotten. And now Jim had got this job
fixed up for him at Newcastle, and he had
asked for his time and come down to Sydney
to see her about it.
At the bottom of Cathedral-street he
turned and walked back again. There was
a good bit of time to fill in before he’d see
her. He fell to remembering, as he often
did on the nightshift. Most often then he
had come round to that day in the country,
the picnic she had made so different from
other jollos; he came round to it now, mount-
ing the rise of Cathedra 1-street and wonder-
ing at this softness of the old, hard ’Loo,
and wondering again at the way he could
remember things as if he was there and
seeing them still.
Edie was different. Very quiet she was,
and her face was white; she didn’t doll her-
self up with paint and powder like other
tarts. And she never drenched herself in
scent and went about like a chemist’s shop.
That stinking of perfume and powder was
a thing he never could stick in girls. Edie
was just herself, with her gentle, white face
and pansy-blue eyes—all soft and quiet, like
a good rest after a spell at the furnaces.
No stink, no paint nor lipstick nor powder
—just herself. It was time she had a ring
and they got married ; he had come down
from Lithgow to tell her so to-night.
That bit of a tree they had been under
at the picnic—he could see it now, bending
over them, and Edie leaning back against
the old rotten stump with the violets grow-
ing round it. He had seen the flowers —
little things hanging out like bells from the
stalks and round-shaped—some white, some
blue, some white with little blue streaks and
spots in them—and he had asked her what
they were. “Wild violets,” she had told him,
and they had gathered a handful. Bosker
little things, shy and quiet, hiding round the
stump. They hadn’t any scent; there was
no come-hither color or smell about them.
They didn’t doll themselves up like roses or
other flowers—just reckoned to be them-
selves round their stump.
He had thought at the time that they were
like Edie, but he hadn’t said so at first —■
he .hadn’t been game to. Later, when the
evening had seemed to jump down on them
like a soft grey cloud, he had told her, watch-
ing her white, shy face in the dusk. And
they were like her. There was her white
face in the blue-and-white ones, with the
little blue spots for her eyes. And they
had no scent on them, and were shy and
gentle. You couldn’t find anything more like
her; and she had become, when he was think-
ing of her in these six rotten weeks in Lith-
gow, those violets.
Wandering about the ’Loo waiting for the
half-hour to go, he felt the dream of Edie
coming closer round him. He remembered
the tarts of the past, and was glad they were
only memories, and that Edie was so differ-
ent. He saw her at Newcastle, imagined
the place they would get, and her to look
at him like that every day! The quiet
beauty that she meant for him seemed to
wrap him round, safe in this soft ’Loo which
in the old days had been so hard and care-
less. By degrees, deeper and deeper in
dream, he came to Conley’s fence. Soon
now she would be here, like the violets, calm
and white and shy. It was time she had a
ring and
Someone paused beside him, and he was
conscious of a sharp and heavy perfume. He
turned. It couldn’t be Edie. The whole
street seemed to be drenched in scent.
In the light of the street lamp Charlie
saw her face. Not white and calm, but swol-
len, red and—and silly-looking. And the
street reeking of this scent! He couldn’t
believe it. He looked at her inflamed and
troubled eyes that wouldn’t look back at
him.
“Why, Edie,” he began as the heavy per-
fume welled up about him again, “what's
that smell?” he said sharply. “You ’aven’t
got ( scent on you, ’ave you?”
“Yes. Mother gave me some eau-de-
Cologne—l’ve got a headache.” Her hurried
muttering voice was as unlike Edie as her
face and her bloodshot eyes. “You’ve got
to come home, Charlie.”
“H'ome?”
“Yes. Mother wants to see you. You’ve
got to come.”
The hurrying, anxious mutter sounded like
thunder in the quiet of the 'Loo. She sighed
wearily, and one strangling sob shook her.
“What for?” he asked in amazement, turn-
ing and falling into step with her.
“I’m in trouble, Charlie. You’ve got to
come home.” Her nervous voice faded
abruptly to silence.
Charlie walked beside her in stunned be-
wilderment. He thought of the trip from
Lithgow, of how the ’Loo had seemed so
gentle and quiet, of the night-shift, of this
sickening perfume. A warm beauty seemed
to have been stolen from him in a clap of
thunder. Nothing was left but himself walk-
ing here in a dulled resentment at this theft.
He'd play the game, of course, but—sud-
denly he saw the violets hiding round the
stump !
Edie paused and pushed open the gate,
turning to peer into his face as she did so.
She said nothing, but walked up the steps,
a wave of scent coming back to him behind
her.
“Well, Mr. Charles Dent,” was Mrs. Bas-
sett's greeting. “This is a nice thing, this is.”
Her harsh, implacable eyes looked him
up and down, lie returned her gaze with-
out speaking. There was a murderous feel-
ing in the room which seemed to stiffen his
resentment.
“One thing you can be sure of —I’ll see
you do the right thing by the girl. You can
put all yer money on that.”
Edie sat on the sofa by the window looking
out into Riley-street. Across the room Mrs.
Bassett .was staring at him in a reek of eau-
de-Cologne, her angry eyes searching his
face.
“Cornin’ sneakin’ round an honest girl —l
know yer sort.” Her voice was heavy with
scorn and menace. “Well, I’ll see you make
an honest woman of her before you’ve done,
me lad.”
The contempt and anger in her face and
voice filled the room with antagonism. He
held his peace, watching her, while his slow
resentment stiffened into a chill defiance.
“Look, you be a man,” she said coming
across the room, a shrill note in her voice,
“and come at it like a man. Yer got to marry
the girl.” Her eyes burned into his face in
the waves of scent. “If yer don’t,” she shook
her fist, “as sure as God made little- apples
I’ll make yer sit up, Mr. Charles Dent. I’ll
get an order out against yer, an’ I’ll make
yer name stink so rotten that yer can’t get
work to pay it, and I’ll quod yer.” She
paused, watching him. “Now, then, come
at it, or spend ’alf yer time in quod.”
Edie still looked out into Riley-street, and
the room was still drenched in sickening
scent. Charlie’s mind shut suddenly. He
smiled into Mrs. Bassett’s livid face. “Do
your damnedest,” he told her. “Yer can’t
order me about. You can go to Hell.”
Edie’s back seemed to go stiff as Mrs.
Bassett’s shrill voice let go.
At the door Charlie still smiled at her, his
eyes hard and glittering. “Good night,”
he said.
* * * *
Newcastle wasn’t any better than Lith-
gow. The job was all right, and there was
a bit of surfing; but there wasn’t any kick
in any of it.
Edie kept coming into his thoughts. Not
as a violet, and not as anything calm or
gentle. Mainly as part of a dirty row in
the ’Loo. Still, it was Edie. You couldn’t
get away from that.
The second month he was put on the night-
shift, and that seemed to bring her closer
than ever. He could see her eyes all blood-
shot with crying, and her face red and silly-
looking from fright.
But that mother of hers was too hot. Any-
body’d want to play the game, especially with
a girl like Edie —there wasn’t any game to
play, if you looked at it right. He’d come
down from Lithgow to marry Edie —got a
better job so that he could ; he never meant
to do anything else. But not with that old
coot yelling at him to be a man in all that
stink. That was over the odds. She.put
everything wrong. And she’d got his back
up. She could go to Hell.
The months went by in a drifting sort
of way. He got a lift-up at the job, and a
bit more pay; he went surfing and kicked
about with the boys a bit; he got used to
Newcastle in a way. Edie was all right.
But he couldn’t be expected to stick that
mother of hers.
And he couldn’t be expected to duck his
head to that sort of talk. He wasn’t a kid
to be roused on and ordered about, and then
tip his lid and go and do it. All that he’d
wanted had been stolen from him. He
didnt want anything now. And if he had,
that wasn t the way to get him to come at
it. They could both go to Hell.
Yet, the _ months having drifted by, he
began to think he might as well go down to
Sydney for a day or two. Just to look
round. A look round Sydney might shake
him up a bit. She wasn’t different any more
—just like other tarts when they thought
they weren t getting all that was coming to
them, and making a row about it or getting
their mothers to do it. Still, he wasn’t going
to be cold-footed about it or look as if he
was running away. He’d go down and hav a
a look round.
Coming down, into the ’Loo again he felt
that all the gentleness and peace had gone.
He was coming back into a place where there
were rows in a reek of scent, voices yelling
at you and red angry faces. All the scent-
less calm had gone like Edie’s white, shy
face. The beauty wasn’t there any more
(Continued on next page.)


0 *
4
f
T-1
\
/
/
U
sL/
ca
\
/
/■
Hidden Dangers
In Your Skin.
DON’T neglect any skin trouble! The
slightest eruption holds serious possibili-
ties of disfigurement and even pain.
At the first unpleasant symptom, anoint the
place with Zam-Buk, purest and rarest of
healing balms. This great skin soother and
purifier is proved most efficacious.
Again, when the skin is stricken with eczema,
or is poisoned or inflamed, Zam-Buk is the one
external medicine that gets at the root cause
of the trouble. Being a refined substance of
herbal origin, Zam-Buk is able to soak through
the pores into the underlying tissues.
Zam-Buk stops pain and itching, subdues
inflammation, kills disease germs, expels
poisonous impurities and grows new healthy
skin. No lardy ointment or mineral salve can
possibly do the same good. Zam-Buk is
Nature’s great skin purifier.
am
Buk
For cuts, bruises, burns, scalds, wounds,
eruptions, septic sores, piles, bad legs and
scalp troubles, Zam-Buk is acknowledged
indispensable. Price, 1/6 box, and 3/6
family size. All Chemists.
“If you doubt the rogue’s word there, I
don’t. Otherwise how did he know she
had escaped from New Caledonia? He
hasn’t been dining with the French Consul,
you know. How did he recognise the paint-
ing as that of your wife? If you can shut
your eyes to such revelations, I can’t.”
“But the Consul’s statement” sug-
gested Felspar.
“The Consul’s made a mistake—he’s been
misinformed. The convicts have had. all
the luck, and they have been too clever for
the police. They did reach Australia, un-j
known to the Criminal Investigation j
Department.”
“At the Detective Office they may have
some more particulars,” suggested Felspar,
hoping for the best.
“We can go and see,” replied Clinton,
prepared to hear anything.
The Superintendent explained that he was i
now at liberty to tell them how the affair
stood. He said that after Mr. Clinton had
sent the death certificate and the picture
from Felspar’s studio, with Carducci’s finger-
prints, to the Criminal Investigation Depart-
ment, the experts there found that one of
the prints on the certificate had its fellow
on the picture, and it was Carducci’s. More
important, however, was the discovery that
two of the finger-prints, in lamp black, on
the certificate coincided with photos of
an identification card that had come from
the penal authorities in Noumea to the
Criminal Investigation Branch at Mel-
bourne. The finger-prints were those of a
French criminal named Frangois Neigre,
who was known in the underworld of Paris
as “La Savate.”
The Superintendent had already been able
to trace “La Savate” a little further. They
had found that he had escaped from New
Caledonia with his libere wife, and was sup-
posed to have been drowned in an attempt
to get to Australia. It was plain, however,
that he was alive, and the Criminal Investi-
gation Department had no difficulty in
coming to the conclusion that he and Car-
ducci were two European crooks and were
associated in Australia.
Their latest inquiries had, the Superin-
tendent continued, given some very interest-
ing results. He, himself, had just finished
a conversation with Sydney. As a result
of a wire the Sydney detectives had gone to
Cardueci’s old lodgings in Sydney and there
they had found, in an upper room, a
Frenchman and a woman who answered to
the description of the escaped recidivistes
from New Caledonia. The woman made an
attempt to swallow poison, but was pre-
vented from doing so. Afterwards she
admitted her name was Lisette Delas Fel-
spar, and that she was the libere wife of the
man in custody.
The man confessed he was Frangois
Neigre, escaped convict. He said that
Antonio Carducci, whose real name was
Antonio Saccaco, was a partner with him
in the robbery which resulted in the death
of the Baroness Bellarosa twenty years ago
in Paris. He further declared that Carducci
wore at all times a gold cross which he,
Neigre, had taken from the Baroness’s neck.
It had the word “Marie” upon it. When
Carducci was searched in the Melbourne
watchhouse, before being remanded to Mel-
bourne gaol, the cross described by Neigre
was found upon him.
“We have cabled to the Prefecture of
Police at Paris concerning Saccaco,” the
Superintendent went on. “We are telling
them that we hold him for extradition as an
undesirable alien and as a. man wanted
for a crime in Paris. I have seen Mrs.
Carducci and her daughter, but the
woman will not have anything to do with
him. They are leaving Australia, and they
are at liberty to do so. We have nothing
against them.
“Now I will tell you something interest-
ing. We have every reason to believe that
Carducci is a double-dyed rogue, and that
his wife must have led a hell of a life with
him for over twenty But would you
believe it, she wanted us to take £5O for
the defence of her husband, whom she was
praying to God she would never set eyes
on again!”
“No one yet has fathomed the depths of
a woman’s compassion,” Clinton said sen-
tentiously.
“I sent the £5O back to the woman,” the
Superintendent added, “with a message that
the money could not help her husband,
because he was sure to be extradited. She
returned to me £25 with the request that,
after she had sailed, I would forward it as
a donation from St. Catharine to the Little
Sisters of the Poor.”
“An extraordinary woman!” ejaculated
Clinton, opening his eyes in astonishment.
“The most extraordinary thing about it
is that the constable who saw Mrs. Car-
ducci tells me that her daughter, Mrs.
Deacon, knows nothing about her mother’s
gift of £25, or that she had offered the £5O
for her husband’s defence; and she was very
insistent that the constable should not say
anything about her doings to her daughter.
It will be many a long day before Saccaco
will handle £5O or a sou again, if I know
anything about the French authorities and
New Caledonia. There’s no doubt that
Carducci is Saccaco, but to make sure we
are taking him to Sydney, and we intend
to confront the two men there and see and
hear what takes place.
(To be Concluded Next Week.)
You could feel the streets and houses jang-
ling round you. As in the old days it was
hard and brazen in a way.
At the foot of Palmer-street he ran into
young Bob Bassett, Edie’s kid brother. Bob
stopped and grinned.
“Hullo,” he said.
“How’s things, Bob?”
“Oh, all right.”
“I mean up at home.”
Bob’s grin faded. “Not too bad,” he in-
sisted. “The baby was born yesterday—no
time for the ’ospital, after all.”
The jangling houses seemed to come shriek-
ing at Charlie, as he watched the grin come
faintly back into Bob’s face.
“I’m glad you came down. Charlie. Mother
said you wasn’t game to —she’s all out hell-
for-leather for your skin.”
Charlie didn’t speak.
“So long,” Bob said at last, moving off.
Not game to! Charlie twitched his hat
over and strode up Biley-street, yanked the
gate open and ran up the steps. He’d show
the old girl who was game to and who wasn’t.
In the hall Laurie Bassett looked uncer-
tainly at him.
“Is yer mother in?” he demanded.
“No, she’s not. She might be half an
hour, she said. You can wait if yer like.”
The sight of the house brought back the
dirty row and the stink, the rotten feeling
of everything falling away. “Where’s Edie?”
he said.
“In the front room upstairs. I s’pose yer
can go up. But”
The door shut behind him, he was con-
scious that the jangle vanished suddenly.
There was Edie’s white, shy face on the
pillow, her eyes like smudges of violets. She
smiled at him.
“Hullo, Charlie,” she said in her gentle
way. “You got here all right. Look.”
Bewildered, he walked softly across this tran-
quillity to the side of the bed. Edie looked
down into the crook of her arm.
“Isn’t she a bosker?”
This was a little violet beside Edie. Pansy-
blue eyes looked up at him from both faces —
calm, gentle eyes. The ’Loo fell silent as
Charlie, looking down at them, sighed.
“I found out,” Edie’s shy voice was tell-
ing him, “that it’ll be all right about her as
soon as w’o’re married. I was a bit scared
at first, but Laurie saw Mrs. Prentiss, and
she told her. It’s law. I was thinking,
(fharlie, we’d call her Violet—you remember
the violets round the tree-stump you said
were like me?”
Violets, violets! He straightened up, a
great load off his mind. That rich, quiet
feeling was coming back.
“Yes. Let’s call her Violet,” he said.
A Smoke and Talk.
The tide is out and the sand is hard,
And this is the time to walk
To the little house by the salt lagoon
For a fireside smoke and talk.
A gale is blowing and ’neath its might
The pines on the long beach bend ;
On such a night, like the crying wind,
The heart cries out for a friend.
Though dark it is ’tis not too dark
To hide the track from my feet;
So forth I’ll fare from the little town
And its lamplit, seaside street.
Torn clouds are scurrying o’er the moon,
And gleams on the wild sea-waste;
And restless am I as the speeding clouds,
And lone as the gleams that haste.
I'll walk the beach for a mile or so,
And turn to the left, and then
Betwixt sand-dunes seek out the track
That leads through a ti-tree glen.
That track I’ll tread for another mile—
Weird-neighbored by trees that croon
On windy nights—till at last I reach
The house by the salt lagoon.
Therein, though chilled by the shouting gale
And soaken with spray and dew,
A friend, a pipe, and a fireside talk
I’ll find for an hour or two.
N.S.W.
EODERIC QUINN.
Renewal.
The winds of old Autumn
Are beating on rny soul;
Scarlet winds and' blue winds
And winds I dare not name.
They call my soul to combat,
And no other country
Has blue winds and greying winds
And wild winds the same!
No other country
Has airs that stir the lightning
And great chuckling thunder
Within my sodden mind,
To make me lift the pennons,
The spear-heads of adventure—
To tilt fantastic windmills
And hazard with the wind!
No other country
Has ragged, swishing forests
Washed in a wind drift
Of white revealing light:
No other country
Can cleanse me and free me,
And fire me to do the ’deeds
Great to my sight.
Winds of my country,
Oh grey winds of Autumn!
Vision’ry and eyeless
And ageless and free,
Blow away the old leaves,
The pretty, .painted old leaves
Of cluttered thought and sentiment
And leave a new me!
So I am spent and torn,
But glad that I was born!
On to a newer death,
Some further goal!
For the blue winds, the slaying winds,
The great winds, the greying winds,
Are beating out the core of me,
Are beating up my soul!
QUEENSLAND.
LLYWELYN LUCAS.


m
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in atock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD..
Queensland Agents—HOLMES X CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office— 93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
V!ctnrian Office—“ Chancery House," 485 Itourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., I/i'l)., Adelaide. S.A.
“BRISBANE COURIER
FIRST
In Queensland in
Circulation - Advertising - and Influence
The “Brisbane Courier” carries considerably more advertising
than any other daily or evening newspaper in Queensland —
and i» greatly increasing its lead every month!
Such is the confidence National, Interstate and Local Advertisers
have in Queensland’s biggest and most progressive daily newspaper.
Specimen copies aed rate cards from ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney
Published by the Brisbane Newspaper Coy., “Courier” Building, Queen St., Brisbane
IF YOU DESIRE
TO REACH THE
TASMANIAN
BUYING PUBLIC
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
should carry your message.
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town and
Country—this Popular Weekly goes regularly
into the homes of the people, and each
issue is eagerly read by men, women and
children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest, with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays. Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS/ LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 223
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: "Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street.
the Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price 1 %d.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
WILSON, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone, MA3161.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Queensland’s Greatest Newspaper.
To-day, in the great State of Queensland, the newspaper that
offers to merchants and manufacturers unquestionably the
finest “cover” in the daily paper field is
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
Circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be
greater than that of any other Queensland daily.
For rates and other particulars, please apply to
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-294 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE,
First Floor, Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Ikdtime io a food
time -!*>£ any.
time id the iiqht
turn to take
Worth a
Guinea
a Box.
TC
99
cc
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
TUESDAY—Price 3d
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
“The Examiner”
Tasmania’s Oldest Daily Newspaper. Established 1842.
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has the
Best Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest
Overseas, Interstate and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
Tasmania’s'Best
Illustrated Weekly is the
ď
Published
Every
Wednesday
%
& n&y
\* . c s ® t.
,n 9 '
. «s<'■


m
»f
IN THE WOULD!
ESTABLISHED 1742.
1
I
il
innuiiiHiunn
\\w
4#
i
m
%
Tty
7f
$
(W***
Real old Scotch whisky with
a rare distinctive flavour. In
growing demand throughout
the world. A man’s drink—
anytime, anywhere.
Whisky
r %J
r/, "*-^ 4p fi or7-, c
'iiin
’"a,
_, O
i*}s9
§*.*.V*l
I#^
