

è
MADE FROM
B. H.P.
STEEL
LIST OF PRODUCTS.
STEEL WIRE- —All classes and grades for manufactur-
ing purposes including Galvanised, Bright and
Coppered Spring, Nail, Welding, etc. “Waratah” Brand
BLACK AND GALVANISED FENCING WIRES - - “Waratah” Brand
WIRE NETTING.—Rabbit and Assorted - -- -- -- - “Waratah” Brand
BARBED WIRES.—-“Iowa” or “Waukegan” - - “Waratah” Brand
NAILS - - “Waratah” Brand
CLOTHES AND GUY LINES “Waratah” Brand
FENCING POSTS—Star Pattern - B.H.P. “Waratah” Brand
FENCING DROPPERS “Flexo” Brand
MADE FROM
B. H. P.
STEEL
For All Classes of Wire Products
SPECIFY “WAR AT AH” BRAND
B.H.P.
IRON & STEEL PRODUCTS
MANUFACTURED AT
NEWCASTLE STEEL WORKS.
iDnaoHd jo isn
TEE RAILS
BRIDGE RAILS
TIE PLATES
BEAMS
CLUTCH BARS
CHANNELS
ANGLES
TEES
LOCKING & JOINT
RING BARS
ROUNDS
SQUARES
FLATS
OCTAGONS
PIG IRON
INGOTS
BLOOMS & BILLETS
REINFORCING BARS
WIRE RODS
BENZOL
TAR
CRUSHED SLAG
SOLVENT NAPHTHA
TOLUOL
SULPHATE OF
AMMONIA
SUBLIMED
NAPHTHALINE
B.H.P. BLOWFLY OIL
CREOSOTE OIL
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY CO. LTD.
BRANCHES—SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, PERTH, VONDON.
HEAD OFFICE-422 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Steel Works—Newcastle, N.S.W.
Ironstone Quarries —Iron Knob, S.A.
The Bulletin
vWiZ. Jxeeurfwiq (ftyuwuiA ?
Vol. 50.—N0. 2586.
Wednesday, September 4, 1929
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


T’HE 1929 LIBRARY CATALOGUE is
A now ready, and will be forwarded post
free, with full terms and particulars, on
application to
DYMOCTv’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD..
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
At a meeting 1 of the microbes
Tlie chairman moved that they,
With all their might, should bite and fight
Tlfe people every day;
Inoculating yftu with ’flu and me with cold so dour
The chairman’s dead.' Died, it is said,
Of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—Advt.
Ttory Writmg
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Pleas 6 send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address •
S.B.
WORCESTERSHIRE
rrn
yJ-M
SI
"
t
m /
STAMMERING AND STUTTERING
CAN BE CURED IN YOUR OWN HOME
Send TO-DAY for particulars of “Perfect Speech” and copies of letters from
those who have been cured. Philip O’Bryen Hoare, M.8.1.M.5e. (London) (The
Stammerers’ Friend), Specialist in Public Speaking and the Cure of Stammering
and Stuttering.
ADDRESS:
56 BRISBANE ARCADE, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
p.o. Bd-x map.
é
Rheumatism used to be considered an ailment
due to exposure ; and it was thought natural
that outdoor workers should suffer frqm this
painful trouble. New knowledge has. shown
that rheumatism has little to do with the
Weather, but is due to uric poison in the blood.
We now know that rheumatism affects the
heart, and almost all deaths from heart
disease in people under forty are due to
rheumatic infection.
The remedy consists in getting rid of the uric
poison, and the best way to do this is to take
Harrison’s Pills. These pills include a com-
bination of eight of the most valuable agents
known for the removal of uric poison and
deposits and for the successful treatment ol
kidney, bladder and urinary disorders. Il’arri-
son’s Pills give prompt relief from aches and
pains and a speedy return to normal good
health and fitness, even where all other
remedies have completely failed. Yet Harri-
son’s Pills cost but 2/- for 18 Pills; 3/- for
32 Pills or 5/- for 68 Pills at any chemist’s.
Insist on., having Hairison's Pills, and so
quickly drive out a trouble which is as dan-
gerous as it is painful.
ê
ë
ē
Drive Out the Pain by Driving out the Cause
Amalgamated. Laboratories, Kembla Building, Sydney, and all High-class Chemists.
Winner Last Year
J. R. Jeffrey, Kojarah. IN.S.W.
This may be your
Lucky Year !
DON’T DELAY
Buy your
TICKET
To-day
'
wm m .
<*F
i
y
Drawn 16th NOV., 1929
Tickets 1/- obtainable
from Local Agent
or direct from
A. W. YAGER, MIC
Secretary,
Trades Hall,
Sydney
<5
A
“The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania.
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
same day of publication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
Full ini or motion, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,'’ “Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from;
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd., Mr. V. W. Margetts, Mr. W. G. Dougan,
73-75 Patterson Street, 122 Flinders Street, 726 Herald Building,
Launceston. Melbourne. 66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your fancy, write
to the Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
THE MOUTH THE GATEWAY for DISEASE.
Scientists have proved conclusively that no fewer
than 38 different infections may be traced to the
human mouth as a starting point. The mouth thus
being the gateway for the entrance of disease, it
is here that precautions are most necessary.
Hudson’s Eumenthol
Jujubes
Are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Germi-
cide and Antiseptic known. Beiny destructive to
all organisms which give rise to infectious diseases,
they keep the mouth in a sweet, healthy condition.
The Lancet (London) states: —“Their purpose is to
act as a bactericide in the mouth. This result _i»
i'.kelv to be gained, for in the experiments tried
Eumenthol Jujubes proved to be as effective bJW-
tericidally as is creosote.”
I/O a Tin.
m
[A. The Larynx «
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea o'
Windpipe.
C. The Bronchial
Tubes of Dissected
Lung.
D. The Lobe of o*
of the Lungs.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throat*,
Bronchitis and Influenza.
The Red Page
Gerald Gould’s Testimony
It has been stated on the Red Page that
some who have volunteered criticism
of Bulletin Novel Competition prize-
winners have found nothing good to say
for them, and a sample criticism of the
winner of the £5OO first prize, “A House Is
Built” (used serially as “The Quarter-
master”), has been given. Any adverse local
criticism of “The Qua'rtermaster,” however,
has been nothing to that levelled at the
story which was thought so highly of that
the second prize of £125 was raised to £5OO
to express a unanimously-held opinion of
its merits. “Coonardoo,” in fact, has been
more severely criticised than all the rest
put together. Here is “Coonardoo” as some
found it:—■
With all due respect to the judges, and to Thu
Bulletin's ideas of the “intellectual merit” of
“Coonardoo,” it was one of the worst stories I ever
read, and every person whose opinion I sought
expressed similar ideas.”
Yet another:—•
“Coonardoo” was dull and uninteresting from start
to finish, with scarcely a redeeming character, and
many “shoddy” passages.
One critic—in the Murray Pioneer —
got in early with a biff or two: —
The admirable effort of The Bulletin to encourage
the, writing of novels in Australia by the offer of
prizes on a generous scale is much to be commended.
But, if one may judge from the . specimen stories
already published, there does not appear to be any
immediate prospect of unearthing any great novelist
by this process. “Coonardoo,” though interesting
enough for the pictures that it presents of station
life in some little-known parts of Australia, will not
add to Katharine ITichard’s already deservedly high
refutation as a writer of fiction or enhance the
glories of our native literature.... Judges are got
infallible, and it is possible that among the many
scores of novels- submitted for competition there
may be better books than those selected for special
recognition—which in any case fiave not yet all
been published.
The writer of that, though, considering his
closing phrase, he does appear to have got
in rather early, at least represented a dis-
interested attitude towards our literature
and a generosity not so common as they
might, be in Australian literary circles, and
he had read the work he attacked at time
of writing.
The opinion of a great critic, Arnold
Bennett, has supported the choice of “A
House Is Built.” The opinion of another
acknowledged leading critic of contemporary
fictiqn now comes to support the choice of
“Coonardoo.” In the London Observer
for June 16 Gerald Gould wrote:—
“ ‘Coonardoo/ we are informed by
the publisher, won a prize for the best
Australian novel, offered by The
Bulletin, Sydney, during 1928. And
certainly if any other Australian novel
of that year was better, that other
novel must have been astonishingly .
good! ‘Coonardoo’ takes some time
to get going, and, to the reader not
interested in the habits of the natives
of Western Australia, may seem
through some of its length to deal
rather with types and formal situa-
tions than with human beings; but,
once the atmosphere is created and
the sharp central situation emerges,
all the people put on the individu-
ality of life. It is, I think, a mistake
to cpmpare Miss Prichard with Olive
Schreiner as a ‘great’ writer; but
she treats emotion with rare skill,
force and reticence. Her heroine is
a native girl who loves her white
mistress’s son with a perfectly un-
complaining ardor of submission. She
has a husband of her own race; but
that is no matter; the two loyalties
do not, compete, do not exist in the
same world. (The author is successful
in the difficult task of describing a
scale of values, a code, an attitude
towards sex, far removed from those
that most white nations take for
granted; she has studied, and under-
stands, and can interpret and compel
us to sympathise.) Coonardoo is
seduced by the young white man, and
bears him a son; subsequently he
brings to the homestead a white and
legal wife, who bears him only
daughters. Deserted by his wife,
desirous of Coonardoo, prevented by
a convincing inhibition from again
possessing her, he sinks into unhappi-
ness and restlessness; and when at
last he finds that another man has
done what he has refused to do, he
rums upon the poor girl with an in-
human and pathological fury. The
end is mournful and deeply moving.
Here is a novel of which Australia
may well be proud.”
Conditions for the Second Novel Com-
petition have been published, and may be
had, with any further details desired, on
application to The Bulletin, 214 George-
street North, Sydney. The competition
closes on December 31, 1929, and the prize-
money is: First, £400; second, £250; third,
,£125.
Archaeology and the Flood
Some speculations of mine about the poor
damp old Flood have aroused E. T. Salmon,
British School of Art, Archselogy and
Letters, Rome, who speaks on the Red
Page (14/8/’29). I fail to understand why
he should get mad about my Deluge. I
never spoke of his Deluge except with
respect almost approaching to affection.
Mr. Salmon bases his contentions, as I
did, on a certain clean level deposit of
clay, with human and other debris both
above and underneath, but none in the
clay itself, This was found deep down at
“Ur of the Chaldees,” or thereabouts. The
debris beneath the nice clay table presum-
ably represents a civilisation which came
early and was drowned. The one above it
developed when the wetness was over, and
it wasn’t drowned. Mr. Salmon says that
the people beneath were overwhelmed “by
one big flood or by an uninterrupted series
of small floods.” In the latter case some
of the population should have fled for
higher ground between the small floods,
leaving their cooking utensils and other
furniture in the clay deposit, unless they
were very slow people. Mr. Salmon also
says that if I have any other explanation
of the situation genuine pundits would like
to hear it. My explanation was Flood pure
and simple, but I didn’t offer his alternative
of a procession of Floods and a protracted
drowning. Supposing a mangled corpse to
be found, the question may be raised
whether it was killed at one operation, or
by a series of persons spread over an
absolutely indefinite number of years. In
the latter case it seems probable that the
victim would have escaped to the hospital
in a cab between attacks.
Mr. Salmon says that only my imaginings
“would suggest that the whole world was
flooded at one and the same time.” Well,
Genesis imagines so, and I didn’t write
Genesis. The report that I did so has been
exploded. The scriptural account; which is
probably as wild as other accounts, says that
“all the high hills, that were under the
whole heaven, were covered.” This would
explain the findings away down below “Ur
of the Chaldees,” and a darned lot of
matters besides. I mentioned that if this
general wash-out, concerning which there
are legends in many lands, could possibly
have taken place, it might have been caused
by a very large heavenly body, which passed
too close, and by its attraction drew the
seas out of their beds, so that “the foun-
tains of the great deep were broken up,”
instead of falling down. If that object, or
another of the same name, comes round
again, there will certainly be a fuss.
If the statement that “Mesopotamia was
the area which suffered the Flood” means
that, it wa-!s the only area, then Mr. Salmon
is out of his depth. Unless flood waters
were coming down from the hills behind it
there would be lack of water to keep the
show going by mere rainfall till it deposited
Bft. of pure clay. And unless the sea was
propped up in front the water would have
escaped that way, to say nothing of the
risk that it would topple over into adjacent
countries. Yet if Ur and its vicinity secured
a special salt flood by sinking beneath the
sea and being dredged up again, the absence
of fish remains, anchors, rejected cabin
stores and the like in the clay deposit
remains to be explained. Assuming the
Deluge, if there was one, to be a sudden
freak, which stayed longest and left its
most conspicuous marks in low countries,
that would look as feasible as anything. But
it couldn’t be solely a matter of» rain. If
all the alleged moisture came* down and
then went up again, the load would be
liable to drop again any day. In making
these remarks I am not throwing bricks
at, “responsible scholars who make state-
ments only after slow and, exhaustive con-
sideration of all the available evidence.”
Responsible scholars are a modest crowd,
and generally keep in view the fact that
more evidence may become available any
day.
Mr. Salmon makes allowances for me in
a spirit of charity. I Wouldn’t exactly care
to trespass on his charity, but of course
a loan of, say, ,£lO would always be accept-
able.
J.E.
Loot and Captives
According to an excerpt printed on the
dust-cover of Loot and Captives, by Henry
Pryce (William Brooks), The Bulletin
said that this writer’s earlier book, “Your
Old Battalion,” was “powerful and vivid.”
I found it a book of verse, always
swinging and, when the theme is war—as
{Red Page continued on page 5.)


ĕ
r?
VI
fHt
&
V
&
. **"£%-
as
B
m
*s>
ga»=
><•
«4X3'JJ?
1
"S, ".
MiBP
ii
Anthony
Horderns’
are sole agents
in N.S.W. for
Shanks’s Mowers.
Shanks’s Celebrated Lawn Mowers
Shanks’s “Triumph” Horse Mowers, Side-wheel type.
The “Triumph” is undoubtedly the best machine of its type, Ihe
cutting cylinder is of specially large diameter and strength. It
cuts grass of the coarsest kind up to 9 inches long or more, and
leaves a splendid surface. The lower part of the frame is hinged,
allowing the cutting cylinder automatically to clear inequalities of
the ground. The operator, without dismounting, can raise or lower
the hinged cutter. Lightness and strength are a special feature.
Ideal for making new Golf Courses, Recreation Grounds, Parks, etc.
Price, 36in. .....: £9B
Our
Deposit-Purchase
System
involves no
extra charge.
H
m
m
:l
m
XT 585
XT2o2.—Shanks’s “Britisher”
Lawn Mower. The “Britisher”
is absolutely the most reliable
side-wheel mower on the
market. It is built with all
the precision, skill and care
that goes into every Shanks’s
machine; is durable, easy to
work, and the ideal machine
for a small lawn. Has 5
blades. Complete with grass-
box.
Sizes, inches 10 12 14
Prices . . 90/- 95/- 100/-
1
XT 393
XTsBs.—Shanks’s “Jehu” Motor Lawn Mower—24in.
cut. Fitted with an engine of the four-stroke type,
air-cooled, and having mechanically-operated valves,
this is a fine machine for extensive lawns, etc. Differ-
ential gearing, and the division of the roller into two
parts facilitates turning. The clutch is controlled from
the handles, and a clutch is also fitted for putting
the cutter out of gear when necessary. Weight,
Price, with special grass-box with delivery
apparatus £l3O
30in.-cut Machine, similar to the above, but
fitted with engine. Price, complete, £137
(k >
XT 202
XT393.—Shanks’s “Wizard” Motor Lawn Mower.
Fitted with 1 i-h.p. motor, two-stroke type, air-cooled,
worked by petrol. Rollers are driven through differen-
tial gearing. Intermediate and cutter shafts fitted with
ball-bearings; cuts 16in. wide. An efficient machine
for lawns, tennis courts, etc. A special low cut is
arranged when the mower is required for golf or
bowling greens; self-propelling. Price .. £67/10/-
We also have efficient workshops where repairs are
quickly and reliably executed. ’Phone for further
information.
AGRICULTURAL DEPT,, Fourth Floor,
ė
ę
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
Telephone 1V12401
Day and Night


The GREATER HUDSON
The Challenger
/
V,
£
s
Wl
%
ft
rs
Li
-
~A JSHLr.- :
SKSrt*
JPJS*
- 3*
ip * * * in Value as
well as in Performance
Keen judges of motor car values
quickly recognise Essex the Chal-
lenger and The Greater Hudson as
the outstanding values of motordom.
They enthusiastically approve the
new low prices, the 80-mile-an-hour
performance of The Greater Hudson
and the 70 - mile -an - hour speed of
Essex the Challenger. In both cars,
motorists admire the wide selection
of body styles, fine fittings, matchless
riding ease and amazing performance.
Owners themselves suggested the
many improvements in these two
HUDSON PRICES AT SYDNEY.
5 Balloon Tyres Standard Equipment.
Hudson—l22in. Wheelbase.
Roadster (Imported Body) £5OO
Coupe (Imported Body) 535
Standard Sedan (Imported Body) 535
Tourer (Imported Body) * • • 550
139 in. Wheelbase.
7 Passenger Phaeton (Imported Body) £630
7 Passenger Sedan (Imported Body) . . •. .. • • •» 775
great cars. Made in the same factory,
they uphold the traditions of per-
formance and value established by
Hudson-Essex for 21 years. With
such a background of experience and
popularity, is it any wonder that
Essex the Challenger and The
Greater Hudson are the acknow-
ledged leaders in value and perform-
ance? Visit the nearest Hudson-
Essex dealer and inspect these two
fine cars. Drive them and you will
quickly discover why these cars
maintain their leadership.
ESSEX PRICES AT SYDNEY.
5 Balloon Tyres Standard Equipment.
Tourer (Australian Body) * * • £290
Standard Sedan (Australian Body) 365
Standard Roadster (Australian Body) .. 290
Coupe (Imported Body) 385
Convertible Coupe (Imported Body) 395
Town Sedan (Imported body, with bumper bars) . . .. 420
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY
DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Stret, Sydney.
WHATMORE, MeINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
AUTOS LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
MOTORS LIMITED,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER


ě
He seems upset. And so he is.
His new suit has just come home.
The collar rides up at the back.
The coat binds uncomfortably
under the arms. The vest re-
fuses to meet. Surely the tailor
must have forgotten his spect-
acles when he measured Henry!
What a pity Henry didn’t take
our advice. His face would have
been wreathed in smiles now.
We told him to go to David
Jones’. He could have had a fit
as snug as a schooner and a suit
that would make him forget he s
wearing clothes. The coat would
slip on and off in a jiffy. It
wouldn’t buckle or lose its shape.
All important parts hand-sewn
—with silk thread, because silk
doesn’t shrink or fade.
Yes! we’re sorry for Henry, but
why on earth didn’t he take our
advice.
e
DAVID JONES
AT THE TWO MEN’S STORES Lower Ground Floor,
New Store also Branch Men’s Shop, opposite GT.U.
it mostly is—sometimes stinging; which is
as it should be, coming from one pseudony-
mously Gunner 379. Thus, in 1918, he was
saying
I saw a man walk out. into the night.
Of Polygon Wood; and as he went, I heard
The snarling rush of a shell in downward flight.. ..
A year earlier than that he was questioning.
Could Homer walk this hill and hear
The song of cannon high and dear,
The roar of caissons jolting past.
The hiss of bullets, and the blast
(if shrapnel over yonder trees....
1 wonder would he sing of these?
Fair enough verse, that; and he cou
approach poetry:—
1 would that my imaginings
Might he ns blind old Homer sings! .
But if he touched this cold machine
That slays beyond the hills unseen,
And heard the song of yonder lark,
I wonder would he bless the dark.
The years pass. There is no war, no
physical conflict on the grand scale. Inc
eyes that looked on war in France looked
on supreme mortal spectacles, titter winch
the dull, humdrum existence that men live
in peace can offer nothing inspirational—
that is, in the way of spectacle. It is not
a peculiar experience; it is a terribly drni-
cult thing for even a great poet—Sassoon,
for example—to turn away from the
grandeur of war (I am not speaking admit-
ingly of it) and lind fresh faith and hope
and enthusiasm. Mr. Pryce tries very hard.
He peers earnestly about the Sydney streets,
and here, alas! is the carat ol his glean-
ing:—
There ’mid the rubbish strewn around
The vine fertility had found:
And climbing up towards the light
Blazed forth one day upon the sight,
With a hundred faces sweet
Smiling on the ugly street;
And by it flowed the human tide
Ere for an hour had shone its pride—
That sea which laps sp turgidly
The strand of Mediocrity.
In his search for the Blue Bird of old
illusion Mr. Pryce is even more earnest than
most of the warrior ex-poets, for he will
stray off the street to toss an anxious net
in the air of fancy:—
Above the clouds, amid the snows,
And on the margin of a tarn
The tower of Erh-Feng arose,
Erh-Feng, the seeker, onoe a klian.
Builded of the granite stone
Black and comfortless and strong
Was the mystic’s high retreat;
There he dwelt aloof, alone —
While the Indus wound along
Pleasant valleys at his feet.
Again there is the book’s closing piece, an
effort in which everything of “Kuh-
lai. Khan” is imitated, except the only
thing that matters a straw —the melody.
There are other trees blazed on the tow-
path to mark the eagerness of the searcher.
“Now all the commerce of the day is done.”
“Outside the oharm&d circle of the lamp,,
“AH nature rests, indeed the world’s asleep ’
are examples—lines with a too-familiar ring.
Tkat, an inevitable consequence of too
keen a wooing of the muse, too eager or too
complacent a netting for the Blue Bird, is
also audible in the eighteenth-century con-
o&t Enchant Me”: —
Wherefore enchant me with fond eyes,
Yet wound with words so cold?
All, all thy lovely looks were lies,
If truth thy lips have told.
We meet that bantering playfulness in,
say, Congreve, and, if we have any whole-
some sense, we enjoy it—in its setting. We
are rash if we put it seriously forth as a
thing of to-day. “Say Not That Yesterday
Was Good” is another of these conceits, and
not the only one.
After a careful and sympathetic search
for some evidence of a recaptured Blue
Bird, I turn—it has to be said —-without so
much as having glimpsed a wing-feather,
back to 1917; Winnizeele, September 29;
Night of Battle :
O’er this dark realm where Death alone is warden,
Where caste and creed and color blend in hate,
Now proud and cold above, the wan moon sails;
A myriad stars review us.
O God, if prayer of ours for aught avails,
Cover the eyes of these old friends, who knew us
When we were children, playing in Thy garden,
Knowing not the world’s end lay beyond the gate!
The guns roar: burns the sky with malice:
And night is drunk with noise;
The Mother, in the ruin once a palace,
Treasures the child’s worn toys.
Am I right, I wonder, in reading that Mr.
Pryce has lost something that he had then;
or is it that he was less sure of himself and
took more care in those uneasy days?
CECIL MANN.
The Artist’s Workshop
“I can no longer expect to be revisited
by the continuous excitement under which,
in the early months of 1895, I wrote the
greater part of my earlier book, nor, indeed,
could I well sustain it if it came,” wrote
A. E. Housman, as preface to his “Last
Poems,” his only book of verse since “A
Shropshire Lad.”
It is possibly the most valuable testimony
of the mood of creation which has come
to us from an important writer for many
years. It contrasts strikingly with the
famous definition of poetry as “emotion
recollected in tranquillity”; here is a
modern poet of the front rank confessing
that he conceived and wrote his work in
a state of restless energy, or eager seeking.
It raises, immediately, a picture by one of
our best women novelists—that presentation
of Martin Schuler working on his last opera
before his death, dazed, blind, with irrational
outbursts and sudden disappearances into
the surrounding woods, “eating when he
could reach food with his hand and put it
into his mouth without thinking.”
We have little information as to the
methods of most worth-while authors. Some
years ago an English journal canvassed a
number of well-known writers on the source
of their inspiration. The A. S. M. Hutchin*
sons were voluble, but Rose Macaulay and
Virginia Woolf and the other more import-
ant people refused to be drawn. Conrad
in “A Personal Record,” has left an accoun
of the manner in which his dream world
enthralled him and of the shock 01 being
brought back to reality by a visitoi.
The whole world of Cost.aguana, men, women,
headlands, houses, mountains, town, campo ftnere
was not a single brick, stone or grain ot sand: in
its soil i had not placed in position with m> own
hands) ; all the history, geography, politics, hnance
the wealth of Charles Gould’s silver-mine, and the
splendor of the magnificent ( apataz de ( aiga .
whose name, cried out in the night, dominated ,
after death the dark gulf containing his conquests
of treasure and love alt that had come crashing
about my ears. I felt, that I could never pick up
tin. pieces - and in that very moment i was sa>in».
••Won’t, you sit down?” 1 was most likely t
onl v writer that neat lady had ever oaug it
exercise of his craft, and it. distressed me not to
be able to remember when it was that, 1 last dressed
mv self, and how And she was smiling. Vi hat
on earth was she smiling at ? She remaiked
“I’m afraid 1 interrupted you. interrupted
indeed! She had robbed me of 20 lives, each
infinitely more poignant and real than her own,
because informed with passion, possessed of com
victions, involved in great affairs created out of
my own substance for an anxiously meditated end.
And if Conrad felt as violently as that,
what of Coleridge’s experience?
Occasionally the notebooks of authors
find their way into the hands of conscien-
tious executors and we are privileged to
see many things which were not intended
for our eyes. Those poems of Shelley, lot
instance, where spaces have been left for
the words which would not flow, or where
the rhyme-scheme has been sketched out
ahead. The variations through which the
name of Martin Chuzzlewit passed before
Dickens was satisfied with it. The careful
re-writings of George Moore and Thomas
Hardy. That fine study of the birth of a
poem in Joyce’s “Portrait of the Artist as
a Young Man.” . . ,
But the major problem of the original
“inspiration” is still unassailed* Where,
ultimately, is the source of the author s
idea? Arnold Bennett, in a book of pseudo-
confessions years ago, said that his ideas
came to him “from the gods.” And it is
probably as definite a pronouncement as
we are likely to obtain from our better
and uncommunicative authors.
QUENTIN POPE.
Books Worth Reading
This list has been compiled by a com-
mittee nominated by the Associated Book-
sellers of Australia and Maoriland, and is
printed as a guide to books of rneril:
General Literature.— I The Splendid Adven-
ture bv W M. Hughes; Toad ot Toad
Hall by A. A Milne; John Galsworthy, a
Survey.'by Boon Schalit; The Speeches of
Lord Birkenhead; The Pagans of North
Borneo, by Owen Rutter; The Third Route,
by Sir Philip Sassoon; Slings and Arrows,
by Lloyd George; Marching Along, by John
P. Sousa,
Novels of Literary Merit. —The Borovigh-
monger, by R. H. Mottram; No Love by
David Garnett; Dr. Artz, by Robert Hichens.
Novels of Popular Reading. •—Kenya Dawn,
by Nora K. Strange; Mr. Mulliner Speaking,
bv P. G. Wodehouse; Visitors to Hugo, by
Alice Grant Rosman; Young Woodley, by
John Van Druten ; The Major’s Candlesticks,
by George A. Birmingham; Boon, by Her-
bert Asquith ; The Web of Destiny, by Sea -
mark” ; Dr. Artz, by Robert Hichens; The
Golden Altar, by John Sutherland; Madonna
Without Child, by M. Brinig.
A Satchel of Books
Menace to Mrs. Kershaw, by Austen Allen
( Geoffrey Bles), is an unusually well-written
story of its macabre class. Some of the pro-
perties, such as the mysterious wood with
its crazy owner, are not new, but the char-
acters talk in the unstilted manner of human
beings, and the little pictures of the English
countryside are excellent.
The Australian Gardener, by Leslie H.
Brunning (Robertson and Mullens). Almost
an encyclopaedia on the garden. The subur-
ban householder who wants to know what to
put in. where to put it and when, also what
variety of flammenwerfer, /poison-gas equip-
ment or smoke barrage to instal to repel the
subsequent insect invasion of his Belgium,
will find the information here, and no time
wasted.
The Strange Disappearance of Mary
Young, bv Milton M. Propper (Harrap;
NS.W. Bookstall Co.). The problem in-
volved is how a girl came to go for a ride
on a switchback railway and returned with
a knife inside her. A stirring tale, but the
venue is the U.S.A., and that causes the
arrest of the guilty party to fall rather flat.
The lone murderer seems trivial in a land
where so much homicide is done with
machine-guns.
Out of the Coal-fields, by Frederick C.
Boden (Dent). Another intense burst ot
song from the author of “Pit-head Poems,
which, published in 1927, so impressed the
poet Laureate and others that they arranged
to have the young miner-poet transferred
from the coalpits to the University of
Exeter. Most of these later poems, however,
were written under the same conditions of
suffering that gave the tang of bitterness
to the first, though there are lighter lyric
notes here, and the book closes with “Now
out. of utter darkness have 1 passed,” With
his obvious poetical parent, A. E. Housman,
Boden has a knack of turning doggerel—
exalted statement of the commonplace—up-
side down; making a commonplace state-
ment of the exalted. Fie can be guilty of
such a revolting stanza as: —
I started when school-time was done,
I’ve worked a twelvemonth in this pit;
It was pit-work for- me, or none,
And oti, how sick 1 am of it!
Elsewhere, however, his simplicity is his
triumph. He is every bit as straightfor-
ward as the “Shropshire Lad,” whom he so
much resembles; but he has done things of
liis own, too —by handling the sonnet form
as a living instrument and in other ways.
A vigorous, satisfying poet.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) mil be taker) or communications at p d.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributes volum
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany
J.W.: “Fragment” dropped... .TI.P.: Can’t
fit any of them in... .L.J.0.: Should be sale-
able elsewhere.... Disc Fan: You'll have to send
the complaint to the record-makers direct Bontoc:
Too much of Huxley.. . . Anglo-Aus.: Keply using
the “comfort” argument already in type... .
G.W.R.S.: Can’t find space for “Dancing in Aus
tralia”. ... E.D. and H.D.: Both miss. ... Bent:
"Hollow Dog” helped to a flrestiek.... W.A.K.: only
one thing worse Ilian a city poet’s version of the
Bush, and that is vice versa. .. .E.E.: If you’re as
inconsistent as your rhyme-schemes, you might one
day make a poem. .. . W.A.P.: Australia’s population
consists of six million-odd persons, all poets, and
each of them at. some time or other has written
“Beneath the willows’ shade 1 sit and dream”....
K.A.: Pretty enough to hang. .. . R.T.: The joke’s
4 misfit; the stockings, we hope, fit. ... J.M.H.: “1
Made a Song.” Well, why didn’t you send it in?
L.C.L.H.: Many do worse, but it wobbles a
bit.... Ben: No “Rabbits” to-day.... H.W.,: Now, if
you had only dug up something similar about Aus-
tralian writers !. .. .P.L.: Sad little thing. .. .E. 0.:
You’ve a long way to go, and one of the first
lessons you have to learn is that “lawn” docs not
rhyme with “horn” 0.W.: Don’t fancy either.
Wearwool: Verse “intended to encourage the
wearing of more wool” tested and found synthetic.
. ...L.R.8.: Far too slight... .Califo: From
“Biters" you omit the most objectionable of them
all —ear-biters N.F.: “Warning” not taken
Sandy: “You’d Be Surprised”—“l am,” said the
basket M.M.: “Jonquils” nipped in tbe bud..,.
W.B.M.: —
1 never see a w’attle flower
But what I say “Good-day.”
Your voice must be kept busy just now L.A.S.:
Passed 0ut....A.A.: It creaks too much; such verses
annoy us F.A.: Still won’t do. The only course
we can advise is much reading of good verse
Kangoana: Stating “where it fails” is easier than
usual. It fails J.K.E.: Certainly “of the City,”
but we shouldn’t call it “A 50ng”....M.: Not up to
requirements. Try one of the big music firms....
p.p.L.; Whips of briskness: —
Leaping fowlwards from his quaking domicile
He sprang for the junket,
Which was being carried away m a Northerly
Behind him, gaily leaping, came the vile vermin
Which inhabited the region
Of his Black and Nickel bedstead.
After much bowing and scraping
Before the door
Of his Coolgardie safe
He snapped back the lock with a piercing cry
Of “Out of the way, you scurvy knaves, ’
And went prancing o’er the greensward,
Waving a pig’s trotter.
E.M.: Final stanza needs considerable strengthen-
ing A.J.It.: Not “laekness of brains”—laekness
of'years 11. A.: Lines to the League of Nations
arc, at least, topical:—
The little tiffs on old Chang’s border
May lead the World to more disorder,
So use your powers that it. shall cease,
And give the World your Everlasting Peace.
... .M.S,: Matter slight ; probability slender
G.M.: Sentiment drowned in your prolix style••• •
8.L.; Can’t conceive such a super-sensitive con-
science in such a man... .A.J.H.: More fluency tha.i
originality, but not bad... .F.A.W.: Can’t . va 'o
that hull. . .. Banksia Bill: The old gentleman who
was “threatened with a denouement” has it....
11.J.8.: Study in the nude censored... .Ii.C.L.H.:
Spy lady shot without remorse.... GX.: Bead some-
thing ut the kind before. ...8.R.: Prize-fighter
with the purple opt ic counted out. .. .8.M.R.: 'Veil
constructed, hut. a bit too melodramatic H.M.:
Gloomy subject; psychological study of the murderer a
mentality not convincing G.T.: Good in parts,
especially the swamp drive... .AV.P.: Human little
document—but tiled.. . .P. 8.: Fi.n Times and Pacific
Agb (Suva) ; Polynesian Gazette (Levuka) ;
Samoan Times (Apia) ; Pafuan Courier (Port
Moresby); Times (ttabaul) K.H.: Backhouses
“Narrative of a Visit to the Colonies” should be
worth ill Is.; Herman Melville’s “Omoo,” first
edition, £3 35.; Mrs. Meredith’s “My Home iu
Tas. ” 12s. Gd If .NX.: Hobart was named after
Robert Hobart, Secretary of State for War, 1801-04;
afterwards Earl of Buckinghamshire A. Brooks:
Napoleon Bonaparte died in 1821, of course....
Tatis: Adrian Knox, C.J. of the Commonwealth,
was chairman of the A.J.C. for 12 years. Presum-
ably .ludge Curlewis, wasn’t aware of it when he
uttered his gibe I’oi: N.S.W. Premier Bavin
and Queensland Premier Moore are both Maori-
landers by birth. Bavin was born at Kaiapoi;
Moore at Napier. You’re wrong about Collier,
he’s a native of Woodstock, Vic W.E.8.: A
played-out plot If.A.R.: Draws a tooth but not
a cheque P.S.M.: One much too long; not
much in the others Reform: That is already
done in the Speck. There are five six-member
electorates; the Denison (Hobart) men draw £4OO
pa apiece, the Franklin lot £450, the Wilmot
and Bass bunches £4BO, and the Darwin group
£500... .Israelite B.: No, it was an 1882 creation.
The late ex-Senator Matlieson was the son of the
first baronet and half-brother of the second; he is
succeeded by a brother, his three sons having
fallen in the war. The family seats are Dun-
craig Castle, Plockton, and Gelfield House, Ardgay,
County of Ross-shire Tongo: Chiang Kai-shek
is called President of the National Government; area,
4,270,170 sq. miles; population (1923 estimate),
439 759,380 Berra: Gullett’s books are “The
Opportunity in Australia,” “Unguarded Australia’’
and “The A.I.F. in Sinai and Palestine’ (vol. Vil
of the Official History).
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.P.: No job for the charlady... .K.D.: You might
as well use a skewer instead of a drawing-pen for
all (he good you d0....D.C.: Scratchy and untidy
as vel T.IL: “Hop” got in before you with that
gag; 30 years before you... .R.M.: Drawn large:
and better, it might have a chance F.U.F.: vour
mummers get the bird... .J.C.M.E.: At least you
don’t strew your sketches with skeletons; youi
damsels are plump if not witty H.K.: lifaeven.


9
as
1 /. :
SL2
■iii
MBiw
i
Ilf*
■
V
X
ItSi**
18,
i\
ik\
■& .
mmbscßh pss
f •
mmm
-
1
m
'. rs
■
ii :
H
■
ill
■ :■
//
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS, TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 50.—N0. 2586.
September 4, 1929.
PITH OF THE BUDGET.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
21Jf George Street, Sydney; Box 252188.
Victoria: 11J/-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 21/9 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Regent 5796.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia.
weekly: 12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
5 months, 7s.
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom■■ t,oz. to 10oz., lid. ;
each additional )oz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: ),oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED page LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
GERALD GOULD’S TESTIMONY . . . . 2
ARCHAEOLOGY AND THE FLOOD . . . . 2
LOOT AND CAPTIVES 2, 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. . . 5
THE FRONT-PAGE CARTOON, BY LEASON .. 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
THE OPTIMISTS 8
A FALSE LABEL 8
THE PAYMASTER’S JOB 8
Bruce at Bay 8
ARAB AND JEW 8
IN THE INVASION BELT .9
THE ELUSIVE MIGRANT 9
A CARTOON BY SCORFIKLD 9
POLITICAL POINTS 10
POVERTY POINT 11
CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 11
PERSONAL (with caricatures) . . . . 13
SOCIETY (with drawings). . . . 14, 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..16
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS IS, 20
BROKEN HILL PROP 18
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE CO 18
DENNYS, LASCELLES 18
AUTOMOBILE AND GENERAL FINANCE . . 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 23, 25
Free Service Department .. 26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 32
THE FARM TRACTOR 28
GRASSLAND MANAGEMENT 28
TOMATO-GROWING 28
SMOKE-OH 34
PEN AND PICTURE 37
ART SHOWS 37
THE INKY WAY 37
SPORTING (illustrated) 39, 41, 42
WARWICK FARM RACES 39
UNION FOOTBALL FINAL 39
BUSINESS, ROBBERY 42
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 45
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 48
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 50''
“Paradise Plumes” . . 47, 51, 52
COMPLETE SHORT STORIES—
“UNTOLD TALES OF BULLY HAYES,”
by Albert Dorrington . . . . 55, 57
“THE AMBITION OF THOMAS TEMBLE-
TON,” by K. L. Trent . . . . 57, 58
VERSE.—By Elsie Cole, C. H. Souter, E. J.
Brady, M. Forrest, Arnold Wall.. 52, 55, 58
Next Week.
“THE PHISOLOPHERS,” by J. H. M. Abbott.
“IN THE LAND OF THE LAMAS,” by S.
Stedman.
ffie'&ziHeiz/ri
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 1929.
THE OPTIMISTS.
A London sharebroking firm, Schabb and
Snelling, has leaped into the temporary
limelight with a pamphlet in which it says
that Australia’s credit isn’t up to much.
It is suggested that Schabb and his partner
are really wild because the Nevison firm
has a monopoly of our loan flotations in
England, but that is as it may be. Anyhow
the matter aroused Prime Minister Bruce,
and also the Commonwealth office in Lon-
don, to a defence which was strenuous
enough to be called an exhibition of temper.
This may not have the desired effect on
the public, which would probably prefer
reform to assurances that no reform is
necessary, and in any case it is an ancient
and fish-like defence of little account.
The Prime Minister began by stating that
“criticisms of Australian finance are due to
a lack of knowledge of the character of
the Australian public debt.” In fact, a
state of shameful ignorance prevails, and
it is his business to set it right.
“The war debt is the only unproductive
debt in Australia. The remainder of the
public liability is of a different character
from that of other countries... The public
debt of the Commonwealth and States, apart
from the Avar item, has been expended in
the creation of valuable assets which are
to-day in the full vigor of their reproductive
power.”
That is a startling commentary on either the
Prime Minister’s intelligence or on what he
thinks to be the public intelligence, or on
both—most probably on both. The com-
munity may be casual, but it refuses to
believe that its loan-money railways, roads,
bridges and schools, the 90 millions of other
people’s money which has been put into
closer settlement, and the other 90 millions
invested in sundries, too sfnall and numer-
ous and mixed to be separately defined in
the Quarterly Statistics, are all in “the full
vigor of their reproductive power.” It won’t
even fully credit the idea that the N.S.W.
deficit of over three millions, recently put
in among the “permanent and reproductive
assets” of the country, is earning its keep
and perhaps a little over. The only possible
explanation why the peace taxatioii of the
States grew from 14 millions in 1920 to 31
millions in 1928 is that the great mass of
loan assets are not even in the limited vigor
of reproduction that existed 10 years ago.
The Prime Optimist also mentioned that
in 1901 only 14 per cent, of the public lOU
was held by Australians, while in 1925 they
held 51 per cent. This he viewed as
“evidence of the soundness of Australian
finance,” and solid proof that “there is no
doubt of our growing financial independ-
ence.” Thus things are improving at a
great rate. But the country is now on the
back track again. The proportion of Aus-
tralian securities held in Australia dropped
to 48 per cent, of the whole by 1928, so
something has gone wrong with the “growing
financial independence.” After all, the Prime
Minister’s tale about percentages was really
to the effect that during a period of years
the debt abroa'd was growing absurdly fast,
while that on the spot was growing even
faster, until the local disease became the
bigger disease of the pair. But between
1925, where Bruce’s story left off, and 1928
overseas liability increased by 107 millions,
and local liability by only 25 millions. By
Prime Ministerial logic, it would have been
better if Bruce had borrowed 225 millions
in Australia instead of one-ninth of the
sum. The nation would have owed 200
millions more, but local bondholders would
have held about 53 per cent, of the lot, and
the “growing financial independence” would
have cried from the housetops.
The need for financial reform strikes
almost everybody save the Red element,
which proposes as a substitute repudiation
based on pure Moscow principles. And
the Red element says that repudiation is
reform, so it is more or less in line with the
rest. The Bruce-Page Government is
apparently in a class by itself. It holds that,
as a result of its own good management,
or something of the sort, the financial posi-
tion is sound, and is becoming sounder, and
that the multitude of loans, apart from war
expenditure, has been invested in good pay-
ing assets, despite all evidence to the con-
trary; therefore the best course is to
go on as we have been doing, provided
the money can be got. In fact, its idea
seems to be that Australia, inflated by past
success, should go harder than ever. There
is no room for this kind of optimism at
present, and there never was, and there
never will be.
A FALSE LABEL.
Inside a generation the “Nationalist” party
has had to change its name twice in the
Federal sphere, and oftener in some of the
States; and there are signs that another
alias is imminent. “Nationalism” has
become as objectionable to thousands of
good Australians as “Liberalism” was when
it meant anti-Defence.
Labor is not placed in this predicament
because it leaves its supporters in no doubt
about its policies and the methods by which
it means to effectuate them. It stands
frankly for class legislation—higher and
higher wages, shorter and shorter hours,
increased pensions and more of them, etc.,
etc. —and for the raising of the necessary
funds by loans and direct taxes from which
trade-unionists are exempt. No modern
Labor Government could survive long that
put economic laws before humanitarianism;
that failed to start sand-shifting jobs or their
equivalents for clamorous supporters, or
that jibbed at creating key jobs for key
workers in the Cause, or that economised
in its departments—always excepting, since
the arrival of the Third Internationale, the
Defence Department.
If the Liberal-Nationalist-anti-Socialist
school of political thought stands for any
principles they surely are the spending of
the nation’s money on national rather than
on social services; freedom of thought
and action as against the regimented Labor
system, _ and repudiation of the practice
of creating fat billets for favored supporters.
Yet Federal “Nationalism” is hamstringing
the Defence services. Far from economising
effectively in other directions it has piled
up an accumulated deficit of close on
£5,000,000. All the State “Nationalist”
Governments have deficits, and only the one
in Queensland, which has just arrived in
office after 14 years of powerless opposition,
can fairly plead that “Nationalism” has
been guiltless of gross extravagance. In
less than four years the Bruce-Page Gov-
ernment has played up £7,250,000 on State
roads, which are not its job; and the crazy
Child Endowment scheme is costing the
Bavin Government at the rate of £2,000,000
a year. Such lavishness would have been
consistent in the case of Labor Administra-
tions, but it is strangely out of place in
Administrations pledged to strict economy.
Millions are being wasted in other direc-
tions. The futile Butters Commission,
whose members squander so much time in
comic wrangles, is typical of the job-making
proclivities disclosed by “Nationalist” Gov-
ernments, Federal and State. Leading Con-
stitutional lawyers question the Canberra
Commission’s legality; but Labor, which
revels in such fooleries, would be the last to
abolish it. In N. S. Wales the office of Solici-
tor-General, which used to be an important
Cabinet position, held as a whole-time job
by such men as Julian Salomons and
Joseph Long-Innes, remained in abey-
ance for nearly half a century until the
first Nationalist Ministry revived it as a
sinecure for a supporter. It had been proved
previously to 1916 that, with both an
Attorney-General and a Minister for Jus-
tice in the Cabinet, there was no need for
a Solicitor-General. However, the first
Storey-Lang Government presented the
job, with a comfortable salary, to a deserv-
ing Laborite, and the Bavin Government,
instead of wiping it out, passed it on to a
Nationalist who draws a salary in another
capacity. N.S.W. has to support thirteen
Cabinet Ministers, ea,ch with his retinue, as
against eight before the war. - The money-
raising schemes of the Pages and Stevenses
follow naturally on such exhibitions of
administrative extravagance and paternal-
ism.
No man who is worth his salt objects to
paying a fair share of taxation for such
genuinely national objects as the defence
of the country, education (within limits),
and the care of the aged, sick and unem-
ployed—also within limits. But when it
comes to super-taxation, Federal and State,
approximating closely to a capital levy, for
ever-increasing pensions and endowments,
the perpetuation of superfluous commis-
sions and jobs and the subsidising of
strikers, then those who have voted for
“Nationalist” candidates have a right to
feel aggrieved. And their opinion of
“Nationalism” is not improved by the know-
ledge that any Parliamentary member of
the party who expresses what they are
thinking is likely to be declared bogus by
the “Nationalist” caucus.
THE PAYMASTER’S JOB.
Mr. Abbott meets a miracle-
worker aboard H.M.A.S. Australia.
The Paymaster is the purser of yesterday,
and a lot more besides. He is a merchant, a
banker, a providore, a caterer, a housekeeper,
a storekeeper and a treasurer. There is no
rum to water in the Royal Australian Navy,
but if there was he wouldn’t water it. The
old-time R.N. purser was accused of cheating
sailors over their rations and officers over
their pay, and of taking secret commissions
from villainous contractors; the Paymaster’s
straightness is a proverb. He feeds every-
body, and he handles everybody’s pay—and
he never lets anybody down. The issue of
nearly every item of the ship’s equipment
is in his hands. Even the gunner and the
man of the torpedoes have to come to his
sh p for not a few of their requirements.
In the feeding of the crew the Paymaster
does wonders. Before the writer lies the
menu of the general mess—that of lower-
deck ratings—of H.M.A.S. Australia for two
weeks of this year. On one of the Sundays
the crew had cocoa and biscuit on turning
out in the morning; breakfasted on eggs
and bacon; dined on roast pork, season-
ing, cabbage and plum-pudding; refreshed
themselves at 4 p.m. with tea, bread and
butter and cake; and supped on soup and
cold meats. A week-day menu started with
the early-morning cocoa, and provided fresh
fish and mashed vegetables for breakfast;
roast-beef, swedes, potatoes, jelly and blanc-
mange for dinner; bread and butter and paste
for tea; and tripe and onions for supper. All
this was further fortified with a pound and
a half of bread, and butter and jam as
required. In any shore restaurant of the
very cheapest sort these breakfasts and
dinners alone would cost at least a shilling
each, and the other three meals probably
another two shillings. The Paymaster does
the lot for Is. 9d.
In ships that were built before and during
the Great War the Paymaster’s stores were
situated in various parts of the hull, sepa-
rated from one another by intervening com-
partments and decks, and generally arranged
on an unhandy system that was hardly a
system at all. But in the ships constructed
under recent naval programmes this has been
completely changed for the better, and the
arrangement of “Central Stores,” such as are
to be found in the Australia and Canberra
class, is almost the last word in smooth
working and efficiency. Everything is kept,
handily catalogued and docketed, in a large
compartment that extends the whole width
of the ship, a couple of decks down but
still above the waterline. Every department
of the ship’s internal economy is provided
for from here—engineers’ stores, surgeons’
stores, clothing, bedding, boat-equipment,
utensils of all sorts, tools, and everything
else except articles having to do with the
guns and torpedoes. And down below this
deck, in the holds, are carried the bulk
stores.
Meat, of course, is contained in refrigerat-
ing-chambers. Flour, sugar and groceries
are stowed away in large corhpartments,
deep in the bowels of the ship, to which
access is obtained down perpendicular steel
ladders through hatches about a yard square.
It is only by the lavish use of man-power,
assisted by local equipment of block-and-
tackle, that these receptacles can be replen-
ished. The requirements of a crew of 800
men for a fairly lengthy cruise necessitate
pretty full holds. It is incumbent on the
Paymaster to see that sufficient provision
is taken aboard for the duration of the
cruise, with a month’s supplies to spare.
But if there is anything incredible about
the Paymaster’s job it is his placid state-
ment that he is able to pay the crew in
about twenty minutes. It seems to be, on
the face of it, an utter impossibility to give
800 men a fortnight’s wages in so short a
time as that. Yet once a fortnight this extra-
ordinary performance is carried out. The
pay-table is set up on the upper deck amid-
ships, and the whole crew is fallen in, for’ard
of his temporary place of business, in detach-
ments of 100. Every man has a number
reaching to the century, and they march up
to the table in sections of fours, give their
numbers, and are handed by the Paymaster’s
assistants Commonwealth Bank envelopes
containing their money. (There is a branch
of the bank on board.) They immediately
break off, and the next section advances to
the table. When the writer attended one
of these agreeable functions —it is the only
occasion, with the exception of an Admiral’s
inspection, when all the crew is visible—the
whole operation, as timed by his watch, was
over in 22 minutes.
In his capacity of housekeeper’, the Pay-
master controls all the cooks, stewards,
pantrymen and other ratings necessary to
the conduct of the ship’s domestic services.
To an outsider there seems to be hardly a
pie in the ship—short of the explosive ones
—in which “Pay” has not a finger.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Bruce at Bay.
Public disapproval of the Bruce-Page Gov-
ernment has been piling up lately, as
happens with all long-lived Administrations.
The Prime Minister awoke one morning
and found himself popular—it was when he
said that his Government would “take
these fellows, Walsh and Johanson, by the
back of the neck and pitch them out of the
country”—but his popularity was a flower
that faded. He means well, but he has
nothing to propose except royal commissions.
He is patronising, and Australians dislike
being patronised. He irritates by produc-
ing the impression that he is conscious of
being a most superior person. Add to these
disabilities the Neronian extravagance of
his Administration, its breakdown on De-
fence, and its tragic Budget, and the flood
of reprobation which has descended on him
is understandable.
It is only when the unbiased elector
turns from the spectacle of this glossy and
virtuous, though uninspiring, being to the
sorry pack which is yelping at his spats
that reaction comes. Seldom has a hunted
Prime Minister been so favored in his
enemies. In the lead presses W. M.
Hughes, who, in the days of his own dic-
tatorship, was 10 times more autocratic and
extravagant. Behind Hughes are a motley
lot of newspapers whose grievances range
from Bruce's refusal to give overseas trade
agents ambassadorial status to his proposal
to tax big advertisers.-
The main pack from which vicious snaps
are directed at the quarry’s unimpeachable
pants is composed of disappointed place-
seekers of the Mann stamp; a swarm of
union secretaries, nourished by the Federal
Arbitration system and afraid that they
will go with it; sea-green incorruptibles like
Theodore, who fell into the safe Dailey
seat when Mahony backed Spearfelt and
retired from politics; the moving-picture
people, who, having built gorgeous palaces
on the American plan in every capital and
sacked Australian musicians by the hun-
dred, are squealing that the motion-picture
“industry” (there is no such thing) is on
the verge of being Rooned, and asking
picturegoers to protect their profits by mass
action; and all those who see a ray of hope
for the Third Internationale in the downfall
of any National Government.
Things have been fatally easy for Bruce
in the past. His future will depend a
good deal on how he comports himself in
the unaccustomed role of the stag at bay.
He has one great advantage over his noisy
enemies—he never loses his head or his
temper. The more they yelp at him the
more plain people are inclined to believe
that the stag is nobler than the pack.
♦
Arab and Jew.
The other day fanatical Arabs broke loose
in Palestine and massacred over 100 of the
Chosen People when the British Govern-
ment, which has the mandate, was not
looking.
The hatred between the two branches
of the Semitic race dates back to the Sara-
cenic invasion, but it got a decided fillip
when Bull was given a mandate with
instructions to aid in “the establishment in
Palestine of a national home for the Jewish
people.” The idea was first evolved during
the war, when Britain, anxious to insure
the security of the Suez Canal and hoping
to obtain the financial support of wealthy
Jews throughout the world, announced,
through Balfour, her adhesion to the Zion-
ist cause. At this time Palestine contained
591,000 Moslems, 73,000 Christians (many
of whom were Arabs), and only 84,000
Jews. Consequently there were bitter pro-
test from the Arabs, who asserted that the
advent of hordes of distressed Jews from
the ghettos of the troubled countries of
Europe would overcrowd the land.
Actually, nothing of the sort happened.
Certainly’by 1925 the number of Jews
entering Palestine rose to 33,801, but many
of these found a life of toil on an ungrate-
ful soil far more irksome than running the
risk of an occasional pogrom in the coun-
tries from which they had come, and they
returned. However, many remained, and


ALL QUIET ON THE ’BERRA FRONT.
COHENSTEIN (of the motion-picture “industry”): “Iff only de little beggar could bring him down!”
they brought a degree of civilisation with
them beyond even the city-dwelling Arab’s
wildest dreams.
Jewish schools, industries and farming
communities were established, and with the
aid of British officials the malarial mos-
quito was tackled in haunts where he had
held undisputed sway for centuries. Gener-
ally the health and well-being of the whole
country were visibly improved. Much
Jewish money was poured into the country
to build roads and reclaim areas where the
Arab had never bred anything but fleas,
The Mandates Commission even protected
the landscape by forbidding the erection
of unsightlv hoardings.
Nevertheless, the old religious and econo-
mic differences between the two races
remain, and life in Palestine goes on under
a strain. A row is always pending in the
vicinity of the Wailing Wall, where Jews
assemble to lament over the subjugation
of their race, and the various Mohamme-
dan festivals provide a recurring excuse for
a riot. The British Government has done
its best to satisfy the Arab that his liber-
ties will not be infringed, but when he was
offered representation in the Legislative
Council he refused to vote, with the result
that the proposed constitution had to be
scrapped
The position to-day is that the anta-
gonism between the two races is as fierce as
ever, and, although it might be wise to
restrict further immigration of Jews, those
already there are entitled to stay. So the
best thing the MacDonald Government can
do is to see that adequate military forces
are kept on hand. The disposition to treat
the Moslem as a mild and self-controlled
person, previously tried in Palestine and
about to be tried in Egypt, only leads to
more bloodshed in the end.
. * “ .
n ustries for the Territories.
„ Q
JJou . oome years ago a North Queens-
lander with a knowledge of sugar-growing
under Australian conditions conceived the
notion ot establishing the industry on an
up-to-date basis m one of the few remaining
comei.s o the Empire where labor is so
plentiful and cheap as to make it possible
te se sugar with profit at world s parity—
a thing impossible with white-grown Aus-
tia lan sugar, he result was au Australian-
m vu ie L . compan y operating 111 East Africa,
which = is among the most successful con-
cems of its kind.
Profiting by this example, other North
.^ueenslanders have turned their attention
to Papua m which sugar-cane is indigenous,
and which has supplied varieties of native
cane to reinforce exhausted stocks in
t • a T* 8 a a an< d i e Sll & ar States of the
U.o.A. An area of 40,000 acres has been
aC< S! 4. m nca volcanic country on the
north-east coast, where abundance of labor
is available. A mill is to be erected on the
+ f r U , to be grown and
marketed at rates far below current costs,
The scheme deserves attention, since it
suggests the possibility of transferring to
I apua and Mandated New Guinea tropical
mdustries now being attempted in North
Queensland by white labor, which are ruled
out of court in the world’s markets by
reason of high production costs. Cotton,
coffee, cocoa and even tea are cases in
point. Cotton, coffee and cocoa have already
been experimented with m the Territories,
There is no reason to suppose that the
Papuan and Is .G. hillsides are incapable
of producing tea-leaf equal to that of Assam
or peylon, m bme. ,
B half the capital, Australian and British,
now being flung into N.G. and Papuan wild
cats were devoted to the development of the
agricultural industries indicated, a good
would be made: towards building up
another Java in the Territories.
♦ ~
In the Invasion Belt,
~
With every week that the Ramsay Mac-
Donald Government is in office the differ-
ence between the outlook of Australia and
Britain becomes more evident. If the U.K.’s
Pacifist Prime Minister and the originator
of the Dawes plan make their dreams
come true greatly reduced British and
U.S.A. navies will police the seas on
behalf of those nations which submit to the
judgments of an international Court, and the
money saved will be spent on social services,
The cloak of imperial sentiment will be torn
[ r ° m Australia’s foreign policies, leaving
them exposed to the fn - ld § aze of pure
iea £?, n ', . . . , . , „ ,
n^ hat + vl + ew t 18 , an +l mte^ 10n ?i ?T
*> J ake + ° f * he W. hlte Australia
doctrine? Most Contmenta s-the French,
for example, who have little or no color
sense—don’t understand it, and many
™ sen P d " Britain administers a vast colored
Empire, and Uncle Sam s population
mclu des 10.000,000 negroes, who are increas-
at the ra te of 100,000 p.a. Our national
gospel seems as unreasonable to such people
as the claims of any other monopolist,
In North Australia we have land which is
estimated to be capable of supporting
200,000,000 Asiatics, and a few days away
there are more than twice as many possible
islanders occupying overcrowded lands,
Britain and the U.S.A. are not in the inva-
sion belt; we are. Yet wherever these
Powers lead in Defence-reduction we seem
to be docilely following,
Lost year Inspector-General Chauvel
said in h is report to Parliament: “It is
impossible to place the Australian Army in
a reasonable state of preparedness with
the fundg available.” This year (1929-30)
£544,676 less funds are available, and two
Light Horse and five infantry regiments are
to be disbanded. The personnel of the
Navy is being reduced by over 600; the
Brisbane is going into reserve; four destroy-
ers are to be sold, and other ships are to
be paid off. As regards the Air Force,
nothing is to be done at present about the
recommendations which were obtained at
suc h cost from Sir John Salmond, and
which appeared in a report describing our
fl y in e arm as “hopelessly out of date and
inefficient.”
If the process continues we might as well
save face by asking the Asiatic brother
here, and thus forestalling his arrival with-
out the formality of an invitation.
The Australian Tariff.
.
Some years ago, or thereabouts, Prime
Minister Bruce felt the need lor another
Committee or Commission of Inquiry,
whereupon he appointed a Professor ot
Economics, an ex-Professor of the same, a
Professor of Commerce, a member oi the
Melbourne Stock Exchange and the I ederal
Statistician to consider Australian Industry
and the Australian Tariff, and their effects
upon each other, and on everything else
except the weather. The quintette insisted
on being honorary workers, which was much
to their credit.
The result is a learned but hesitating
volume of 232 pages which views the situ-
ation from every possible standpoint. In
one of its most definite moments, which
are all too few, it states a conviction that
“the same average income for the same
population could not be obtained without
Protection.” Going further, it adds:—
“Given the basic Australian objective of
seeking the largest white population at the
highest standard of living, we consider that
the Protective tariff has been an effective
means of securing it. The practical conclu-
sion is that, having secured this population,
it would be disastrous to abandon the policy
which made it possible.”
That seems a sound confession of faith, but
it is followed by a great deal of verbiage
which is confusing.
A certain amount of space is given to
debating whether bounties may not be
better than Protection. The matter doesn’t
admit of much argument. An important
difference is that" bounties take money
directly from the Treasury, and the larger
the industry grows the more they take.
Sometimes a bounty builds up an export
business, and then the expense may be
almost unlimited. When the Treasury
grows sick of the costly racket and ceases
to pay, the export ceases, and that half of
the business is closed, though the local half
may survive by the aid of Protection, which
might as well have been tried earlier.
Serious attempts are made to decide on
the cost of Protection to the consumer in
the way of extra prices. This is difficult,
for there may be extra cost in some places
and none in others, and if there is extra cost
its duration may be long or short. And if a
dubious estimate of extra cost is made there
should be set against it the cost of not
having Protection—cost in lack of work
and wages, poor relief, etc., which could be
reached quite as reliably or quite as dubi-
ously as the other thing.
A multitude of tabulated figures are
thrown in, which must be of interest and
value to those who like tabulated figures
and understand them. The part dealing
with the balance of trade is spread out
so thin, and gilded with so much erudition,
that the rude, bald facts of the situation
are less clear than they might be. These
are that exports now fail, or almost fail,
to pay for imports as a very regular thing,
and that as a consequence the whole, or
almost the whole, of the interest on old
external debts is paid by contracting new
debts. Some other things are paid the same
way. And if this disease isn’t treated by a
rigorous reduction of imports, the patient
will get worse—very much worse.
It might be added that all the fine-spun
calculations may apply, whether they be
r jght 01 . wrcm g, to a country in normal con-
ddions. But in one where a ruling factor
j s tde ex i s t ence Q f courts which raise wages
intervals all the year round, regardless
0 f consequences, it is little use to debate
an ything according to ordinary processes
Q f' j Q gi Ci
° ' 4
The Elusive Migrant.
The proportion of British whites amongst
the migrants who arrived during the 12
months to June 30 was a record—B4.s per
cent, of the total, or 5 per cent, better than
last year. The percentage of Southern
Europeans was only 3.4. It is satisfactory,
ethnologically, but not nearly so much so
0 n the economic side.
In the last few weeks two English visi-
tors (one a former member of Parliament)
and a well-known Adelaide resident have
said that many of the people on the ships
by which they travelled were not likely to
make good in Australia. The ex-M.P. spent
~ ° , , .. t • • tl jc n l fl tj on
tne , ie f\ 01 tne tup , m . the isolation
w ard fellow-passengers having threatened
to bash him.
Most British migrants arrive here with
every intention of emulating the pioneers
who settled Australia. As a rule, though,
they drift to the cities before long (the
proportion of newcomers who own small
businesses in the suburbs of all the coastal
cities is enormous), or they go home again,
An explanation may be that Britain can-
not now export agriculturists—for the same
reason that Ireland cannot export snakes,
When Australia was being pioneered the
British led the world in agriculture. Con-
tinentals had to cross the Channel to learn
about farming. Now British farming is a
byword, and the British lead in the manu-
facture of all kinds of luxury goods, and
of motor-cars, steam and electrical loco-
motives, textiles and textile machinery, and
ships.
There are no criticisms from any quarter
of the British migrants who are going to
the U.S.A. Far from it. The authorities
at Washington have raised this year’s
quota for Britain and Northern Ireland
from 35,000 (1928) to 65,000. There is no
question of any of them going on the land,
They walk straight into manufacturing
concerns where directors want their pro-
ducts finished as only skilled British workers
can finish them; and they stay there,
Someone suggested recently that British
migrants might oblige the Empire by stick-
in § 4° the land here if the Prince of Wales
joined m an Australian settlement move-
ment. The scheme died of its own inanity,
The Prince would first have to make a suc-
cess of a British movement against popular
education, tabloid papers, the “pictures,”
the town-dwelling habit and industrialism,
The plain truth is that Australia will only
get good British migrants in large numbers,
cmd keep them, when it offers them, not
migration-loan-farming at which, most of
them must fail, but jobs in factories and
workshops—the work at which the best of
them excel. And that could be done by
dispensing with unnecessary imports, with-
out going in for migration loans at all.


è
tySIAN/Q;
BALANCE—the principle underlying the success-
ful construction of the world’s massive bridges—is
also the guiding principle in blending the ideal
motor fuel
ê
The Well - Balanced
Motor Spirit
sa»
POLITICAL
POINTS
Theodore stigmatised Bruce’s proposal to
abolish Federal Arbitration as an attempt
to undo the work of a generation of men
without any mandate from the people. Still,
didn’t Theodore and his friends abolish the
Queensland Leg. Council, the work of more
than one generation, when the only man-
date on the subject received from the people
was a direct and emphatic instruction not
to do anything of the sort?
The little lame Yorkshireman who is
Britain’s Chancellor of the Exchequer re-
turns from Holland in unique circumstances.
He is probably the first Minister representing
Britain in an international negotiation who
has enjoyed the support of all political
parties and the whole Empire, and he comes
back with 83 per cent, of the claim with
which he commenced bargaining. Ramsay
MacDonald and “Uncle Arthur” Henderson
appeared on the scene when the fighting was
over, and exuded goodwill and concessions.
The Army of Occupation will begin to move
out of the Rhineland shortly, and then every-
body will be happy—at least, “Uncle
Arthur” says so.
Gregory, M.H.R. for Swan, has raised the
hopes of Bruce-Page’s
enemies by announcing
that he is opposed to
the new taxes on
amusements. Gregory
was on the Film Com-
mission, members of
which have cut an in-
glorious figure in the
overdone agitation
started by the moving-
picture interest —one
N.S.W. Senator went
o n more like a
“spruiker” than a
representative of the
Australian people. The
Westralian M.H.R.
has not descended to
that level, nor is he
likely to turn against
the Government on the
Federal arbitration
issue, which is more
immediately important.
Outside Mann, the two
Labor M’s.H.R. and a
few union secretaries,
Federal arbitration has
no friends in West-
ralia.
Harry Gregory.
Labor’s policy of obstruction in Vic.
Assembly has been so far successful that the
McPhersons have done no business, unless
the passage of a month’s supply, the adop-
tion of the Address-in-Reply (after eight
weeks’ debate) and the first readings of bills
can be called business. October 19 or 26 is
spoken of as the likely day for the Assembly
poll. It is by no means certain that it will
result in the decisive verdict that is required
to make the legislative machine work.
In its clean sweep of the State enter-
prises, the Moore. Government has had to
include the only success of the lot—the
State hotel at Babinda, in the heart of the
N.Q. sugar country. With the collective
thirst of the canecutters behind it, the
State pub returned profits while State sta-
tions, canneries, trawlers and treatment
works showed staggering losses. Yet it must
go with its prodigal brethren. _ A bill auth-
orising the sale of inn and license is now
before the Assembly.
Under the Anglo-Gyppo treaty Tommies
are to garrison the Suez Canal, but, by virtue
of an article hitherto kept secret, they are
eventually to be withdrawn. Mahmoud
Pasha let this out on returning from Lon-
don to Cairo, remarking triumphantly, “It
is for Egypt to have the last word.” The
probabilities are that many last words will
be said on the subject before the millennium
dawns over the Nile, and they may be spoken
in a variety of European languages.
Jarvie, M.L.A., who was concerned in the
transaction that resulted in the late Chief
Secretary Bruntnell
finding a case of pipes
and a large sum of
money on his table,
has been asked by
Premier Bavin to re-
sign his seat —he is
Nationalist M.L.A. for
Ashfield. Jarvie, who
was acquitted by a
jury on a criminal
charge after having
been criticised by a
Royal Commissioner,
says he has no objec-
tion to recontesting
his seat provided he
does so as the en-
dorsed Nationalist can-
didate. The question
of endorsement is a
tough problem, made
tougher by the fact
that ex-Premier Hol-
man has protested in
advance against the
executive committee of
the Nationalist Asso-
ciation vetoing Jar-
Premier Bavin—
worried again.
vie’s pre-selection by the Ashfield electorate
conference. Any party that goes in for pre-
selection of any sort generally finds it has
a crooked row to hoe.
From Melbourne Argus :
There is only one way of achieving political
success, and that is by way of party solidarity.
It may be true as a cynical exposition of
practical party politics, but the Argus was
never tired of condemning it, as a principle,
in the days when the paper opposed caucus
rule. Still, it is all in the picture. What
with Defence cuts, penal taxes for socialistic
enterprises and the substitution of union soli-
darity for the right of free speech, old
Liberals are very like young Socialists these
days.
In Victoria there are nine offences for
which criminals may be hanged. If Attorney-
General Macfarlan’s Crimes Bill goes
through the death penalty will be reserved
for murder, and for rape cases where the
victims are under 10 years. Another change
proposed is to classify illegal operations on
women as misdemeanors instead of felonies.
Although it is an article of faith with
Freetraders that we can’t sell our manu-
factured goods abroad because they are too
dear, there is a brisk export trade in things
like cream separators, ploughs and harrows,
stripper harvesters and mining machinery—
Malaya and Siam get a lot of their mining
machinery from this country, and even the
U.S.A. buys a bit. Now a big South African
order for electric batteries has been landed
by the Clyde Engineering Co. at Granville
(N.S.W.). It must have hurt the S. M.
Herald to announce that the co. wouldn’t
have thought of making batteries if it hadn’t
been for the tariff; but the old lady bore
up bravely.
Paint work on the Sydney Harbor bridge
has been held up for weeks owing to a
wrangle between the painters and the iron-
workers as to whose job it is. At a cost to
the country of about £5O a day the dispute
was referred to the Industrial Commission —
if Premier Bavin has his way it will be
one of that body’s last jobs, councils of em-
ployers and employees being proposed as a
substitute. An ironworker told the Commis-
sion tjiat an expert rigger is required to rig
the painting stage, and that a painter is
not an expert rigger. “It requires a lot of
‘tact’ to rig a stage on the bridge,” he added.
If the Court gives the painting to the painter
and the rigging to the ironworker, the painter
will also “require a lot of tact.”
Queensland’s Minister for Mines told an
interested Assembly last week that the Labor
Government had given a Melbourne man,
H. C. Sleigh, a three-years’ agency for the
sale of coal from the State mines at Collins-
ville on conditions so remarkable that the
average price to him was 11s. sd. per ton
while the cost of production during 1927-2 S
panned out at 13s. lOd. The gentleman got
a concession which averaged ss. a ton, and
represented a selling commission of 30 p.c.;
for one year alone it was worth £6684. And
the amazing agreement was entered into
against the advice of the Supervisor of State
Mines, nor can it be cancelled without Par-
liamentary action. Other examples of Labor
philanthropy are awaiting investigation.
The other day the Arafura brought 5000
parrakeets and budgerygars to Sydney from
Hongkong. The birds were bred in Japan
from stock obtained in Australia. For years
vast quantities of wattle bark have been
imported from South Africa, where the plan-
tations were originally grown from seed
obtained in South Aus. At the present time
our eucalypts are being planted at a great
rate in California, North Africa and else-
where, and quite possibly the timber there-
from will some day follow the bark and the
parrots.
The Kuomintang, the small coterie of
autocrats who are governing China in the
alleged interests of the struggling masses, is
taking exactly the same attitude towards the
press as the Soviet. Not only is there a
ruthless censorship over all native journals
but a particularly flagrant attempt has lately
been made to muzzle the foreign press by
refusing the mails to the great British organs,
the North China Daily News and the
Herald, and by demanding the deportation
by their Governments of several foreign cor-
respondents who indulged in the unpleasant
pastime of telling the truth. While this is
happening in China Australian newspapers
solemnly print yards of propaganda handed
out by the Chinese Consul-General, who is
the representative of the Kuomintang.
One reason why the National Government
of China does not want to force the issue with
Russia is that it can’t trust Feng, the more
or less Christian general, and Yen, called the
“model” Governor of Shensi. These worthies
represent the interests of the North or
Peking faction, while the Nationalists stand
for the South or Cantonese crowd. Feng
and Yen lately announced that they were
going on a joint visit to Moscow, leaving
their 250,000 troops behind them to be
demobilised by the Nationalists. They have
since, decided to stay and carry out the
demobilisation themselves. The disbanding
is said to be proceeding with intense velo-
city, but without in any way affecting the
size of the army.
S. M. Herald allowed an anonymous
Bruce-Pageite to justify the Government
in a 1500-word.letter last week. A sample;
I can quite understand a gentleman like Mr.
Maxwell, a barrister, taking the point that once the
Brown prosecution was commenced it should have
been gone on with. But that is a lawyer’s view,
not that of a statesman.
The statesmanship was apparently displayed
by Attorney-General Latham, who started
the prosecution (though under Section 6 of
the Act there was clearly no obligation on
the Government to do anything of the sort)
and then dropped it on the million-to-one
chance of a settlement. It is the kind of
“statesmanship” that has caused half
“Nationalism’s” troubles
It has been sug-
gested that W. M.
Hughes should chal-
lenge Bruce’s leader-
ship of the National-
ists by resigning his
seat and putting up
the fight of his life at
a by-election. He
could count on the
help of Nationalists
like Clifton Love, the
manufacturer, his
most influential sup-
porter in the electo-
rate, and he would be
sure of the Labor vote.
But his too-zealous
friends are sorely
embarrassing the
gentleman by urging
this course upon him.
They ought to have
learned something
from his flight from
West Sydney to Ben-
digo in 1917, and from
Bendigo to North
Sydney in 1922.
Clifton Love,
pro-Hughes
Nationalist.
Dame Janet Campbell has arrived, under
engagement to Bruce-Page, to make a hur-
ried survey and report on maternal hygiene
and baby preservation. Her time being
limited, she will stick to the cities, where
things are best. No doubt the Dame is a
lady of some note, but Dr. Truby King, of
Maoriland, has a great record, and might
perhaps have been secured for a longer term
than the fleeting visitor. When he began his
work, Maoriland was the healthiest baby
country in the world, where only 48 out of
every 1000 infants died in their first year.
It is still the best country in the world for a
baby, but now only 36 per 1000 of infants
fail to reach their first birthday. The im-
provement is something to be proud of.
Just before the Hogans left office in Vic.
there were 27,936 Government railway
employees. On June 30, the McPhersons
having been in for seven months, the total
was 27,210. Hogan extracted this information
the other day for electioneering purposes.
A curious legal point has saved a youth
from a birching in Melbourne. Judge
Woinarski sentenced him to a month’s impri-
Judge Woinarski.
sonment and cor-
poral punishment
for an offence
against a girl.
Attorney - General
Mac far lan, how
ever, gave instruc-
tions that the chas-
tisement should
not be inflicted.
Sentences in the
Court of General
Sessions date from
the commencement
of the month, while
a person so sen-
tenced has a 10-
days’ right of
appeal. In this
case the 10 days
would not have
elapsed before the
youth regained his
liberty. There is
another aspect of
the question ; it is
by no means certain that the fellow is men-
tally normal. Flogging the mentally defi-
cient is a futile business —just as idiotic as
sentencing them for a short term and then
letting them loose on society again.
There is a quaint parallel between the
attitude of the Labor party to male immi-
gration under the Little Brother movement
and the attitude of Vic. feminists to Dr.
Maloney’s Little Sister scheme. The ladies
unhesitatingly oppose the Maloney plan.
Some say that it isn’t needed because there
are plenty of other organisations to cover
the ground: others maintain that the girls
are not required because the domestic-
servant problem has solved itself per medium
of modern labor-saving devices. There is a
surplus of females over males in Victoria;
in States where the reverse is _ the case
feminists may be kinder to the Little Doc-
tor’s scheme.
Maxton, the British Labor M.P., raining
bricks on his party’s policies and leaders, is
following a practice which usually produces
results. Gullett is a Federal Minister
chiefly because of his attacks on Earle
Page; and if Weaver, of N.S.W., had not hit
Bavinism to leg whenever the chance offered
he would not be in Bavin’s team now.
Maxton is able and popular in the House,
but he is anathema to the Liberals, tvithout-
whose support the MacDonald Government
would not last a week.
After attempting to justify the reduction of
sustenance allowances to struggling soldier-
settlers to the extent of their military pen-
sions, the Vic. McPherson Government climbed
down. McPherson had two hours’ notice that
the Country Progs, intended to challenge this
rather miserable sort of economy,, but lie did
nothing until he saw that two-thirds of the
Assembly were against bim; then he made &
clumsy descent from his perch. Of course it
would never do to go to the country on such
an issue, though McPherson and Argyle
wouldn’t mind being defeated on the Rural
Bank Bill, or on their proposals for restrict-
ing the proprietary-racing business, especially
on working days.
“D.”: There is nothing new in Chancellor
Snowden being universally applauded in the
U.K. for his straight talk to France over
reparations. The British have mostly cut
party politics out of foreign affairs since
1888, when Gladstone warmly supported the
foreign policy of his enemy Salisbury.
Further, this time it is Labor’s opponents
who are bitterest against the French. Thou-
sands of small British capitalists invested
in the French 6 p.c. War Loans, and were
paid on English sterling in paper francs.
British investors have thus lost £4 out of
every £5 deposited in their Gallic ally s
Treasury.
“Ibn el Issar” : A lot of people who met
the Jew and the Moslem in Palestine will
find it hard to believe that the Arabs were
wholly to blame for the brawling of which
the cableman has made so much. Th,e
casualty-list to August 30 seems fairly well
balanced; Moslem dead. 62; Jewish dead,
96; Moslems in hospital, 103; Jews, 151.
Population (1927) : Moslems, 648,500; Jews,
147,600. It is a safe wager that when the
sorting out comes the Beni Israel will be
accounted as responsible for the outbreak
as the Beni Ismael. The one thing certain
at the moment is that Britain accepted a
tough contract when it undertook to protect
both.
THE SWEATED M.L.A.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Queensland Premier Moore introduced a bill to
reduce Parliamentary salaries from £750 to £5OO
a year.”
This is the stock where a drop is a rarity
In our particular section of earth ;
Mostly it rises with fierce regularity
Somewhere or other ’twixt Brisbane and
Perth.
What though a check now and then they
administer.
Bear it in patience, impoverished men;
Labor will squelch such economy sinister
Once it’s on Treasury benches again.
Nathless a democrat surely may squeak,
Asked to make laws for a tenner a week.
This is the only industrial gallery,
Sole Institution that ever was met,
Where the employee determines his salary,
Says what he’s worth and decides what
he’ll get.
Mostly a rare, imperturbable nerve is his,
Mostly he’s quick to denounce and defy
Those who opine that he’s rated his services
Forty or fifty per centum too high.
Mostly he debits to envy and pique
Doubts if he’s earning a tenner a week.
Shall we be told that it infamous sweating is
Wages to slaughter and pittances slay
Thus so implacably? That’s what the bet-
ting is
Many a truculent Cleon will bray.
Though for so long they have nearly been
pocketing
Twice what a seat in the Commons will
bring,
Wait for the bellows of protest a-roeketing
Up to the roof till the rafters shall ring.
How can a fellow impressively speak
When he’s reduced to a tenner a week?
N.S.W.
IFORD.


Poverty
Point
WHERE THE SHOE PINCHES.
"The Child Endowment tax is having such a serious effect on industry that the N.S.W. Cabinet is reviewing the whole position. More and more the proceeds are being
distributed as strike- and unemployed-relief pay.”
Ma: “It’s not the babies that worry me so much—it’s these big fellows in baby clothes.”
“J. 8.” : When and where did ice-skating,
fast increasing in popularity in Australia,
first begin in this country? After a careful
search, the only interesting thing I have
discovered is that the first ice-steels were
landed in Melbourne in the early ’sixties.
They were sent out on spec., twenty dozen
of them, and, as there was not enough ice
in Melbourne to cool a cocktail, buyers were
scarce. In fact, there was only one buyer.
He bought the consignment for 10 bob.
“A. Borig”: A “Ned Kelly” co. was
playing a one-night season at Kangaroo
"Valley, and an old identity followed the
sorry performance with intense interest.
Game a scene wherein a wounded policeman
lay helpless, begging the outlaw to spare his
life for the sake of his wife and 11 children.
“Don’t shoot him. damn you, don’t shoot
him !” roared the Old Ident. The bushranger,
with some difficulty, retorted that “for his
own safety lie must kill him,” and fired
his old muzzle-loader. Thereupon the police-
man died softly, and the hoarse old voice
in the stalls bellowed, “You’re a mean
-—-, that’s what you are, blast you!” A
hasty curtain shut out the laughter of the
“dead.”
“Craiser”: No play of recent date has so
.stirred public interest in Melbourne as
“Journey’s End,” the war drama at the
Royal. Phil Finkelstein, of J.C.W., receives
on an average a dozen letters a day from
Diggers, ranging in rank from generals to
privates, and none deny the authenticity of
the picture. One of the few criticisms of its
technical exactness came from a galleryite
on the opening evening. When the German
prisoner was brought in and searched, the
guard announced “That’s all, sir,” after
running over his jacket and the sides of
his trousers. Promptly came a disgusted
protest, “What about his. back pocket?”
Fritz’s uniform always carried one.
“N.H.”: Last month Brisbane Repertory
Society players, having produced “Dear
Brutus” successfully in their home town,
took it to Townsville. Look at the map
for that: it is like transporting a play from
Madrid to London. Townsville is opening a
repertory theatre of its own, and Brisbane
set out to help its beginnings in this way
—and almost paid the expenses of the _ trip.
I have never heard of southern societies
doing anything like that.
“A. Flat”: Strenuous efforts are being
made in Melbourne to raise £3OOO to send
Nancy Weir, the child pianist, to Europe.
It is to be hoped that the cash will be forth-
coming, for Nancy is not only blessed with
a charming and vigorous personality but has
an extraordinarily mature talent. At the
same time, one is not being merely captious
if one points out that there are no absolutely
first-rank feminine pianists in the world, and
the hopes raised for Nancy may not be
realised as triumphantly as they were for
Melba. In piano playing even the highest
artistry is not enough—a masculine physique
must go with it.
“Amity”: Most parents will endorse The
Bulletin’s view that it is a pity more suit-
able films are not provided for juvenile con-
sumption. In a country town the other day
I met three youngsters returning from a
bout of pictures. No. 1. feminine, remarked
that the big picture of the afternoon was a
dreadful film. No. 2, a ten-year-old brother,
pronounced it a great picture, with three
bonzer fights and a good-o murder.. “And
how did you like it?” I inquired of the
third, a highly-strung youngster of 12. There
was an immediate chorus from the other two :
“Oh, he didn’t like it at all. He fainted!”
“L.11.P.”: The Royal Comics have ceased
to exist for the time being. With their last
show, “The Student Prince,” in Melbourne,
they temporarily closed shop, which they did
once before —in 1896, after a tour of Maori-
land with “In Town,” “A Gaiety Girl,” etc.
They started afresh on July 31, 1897, at
Sydney Her Majesty’s in “The Gay Parisi-
enne.” All the artists were new, bar the
evergreen George Lauri. The company, with
one exception the oldest in continuous
action in the Empire, was originally started
by Williamson himself at the Sydney Royal
on Nov. 15, 1879, with J.C.W. as Sir Joseph
and Maggie Moore as Josephine.
“Cine Ma”: “Middle C.” (B. 21/8/’29)
and “A. Major” (B. 17/7/’29) seem to have
got themselves into the situation where they
affirm that music has no meaning except
what a hearer puts into it. Well, certainly
a Bach cantata played in front of a cow will
not fill it with a dim religious feeling. But
that does not disprove the fact that there
is absolute religious feeling infused into the
music by the composer and readily recog-
nisable by anybody with a modicum of intel-
ligence. The Vatican is well aware of the
absolute and universal meaning of music
when it puts certain pieces on the index,
having found that they contain a pagan
spirit, though ostensibly written for devo-
tional purposes. As for negroid chants, in
which “Middle 0,” professes to detect only
strange meaningless rhythms, one has only
to watch the mere physical reactions of
a group of niggers—or whites, for that
matter —to them to realise what they mean.
“Hamfat”: Serge Diaghileff, who has died
at Lido, not only brought the Russian ballet
out of its native haunt —he lifted it to its
limit of magnificence. He estimated that
£BO,OOO was needed to organise a ballet
troupe on proper lines, and all the famous
modern stars were included in his company.
He had his h.q. at Monte Carlo, and from
there made raids on all the European capi-
tals.
“Mid-Channel”: “Caesar’s Ghost” (B.
21/8/’29) is surely wrong when he speaks
of the late Cyril Iveightley as having been
a member of the Brough-Boucicaults. My
personal recollection of that combination
extends back to 1802; in those days they
played “Caste,” “Thoroughbred,” “The
Idler” and the earlier farces (Court Theatre,
London) of Pinero. Iveightley would have
been only 17 years of age then. The 8.-B.’s
dissolved partnership on June 33, 1896.
Keightley certainly wasn’t a member of the
company then. His first effort of any con-
sequence was with the Potter-Bellew com-
pany, which opened at Sydney Lyceum in
August, 1896, with “La Tosca”; he played
the part of Angelott the fugitive. Later
on he married Ethel Dane, a brilliant and
daintv little creature, who made a great hit
here in “Who’s the Lady?” It was she who
was mainly responsible for his _ subsequent
successes in England and America.
“C.W.”: “Caesar’s Ghost” (B. 21/8/’29)
follows the old, but incorrect, story in stat-
ing that Mrs. Iveightley rode to Bathurst
to obtain the £5OO demanded by the bush-
rangers as ransom for her husband. The fact
is that she was driven in, her companion
being Dr. Pechey, a member of the house-
hold. She did not return with the money
—her father, Harry Rotton, would not allow
her. That task fell to her escort. “C.G.’s”
story about her carrying a child in her arms
is quite new. As a relative of the family
(I was born within a few miles of Rockley,
the Keightleys’ home, and am in a position
to know the facts), it is strange to me
that the legend of the ride unaccompanied
still persists. In her declining years, Mrs.
Iveightley took to the stage and played in
“Ransom*” a wild and woolly composition
which dealt with the ransom incident. When
she died, in the late ’nineties, tlie_ Sydney
News published a story of her life, in which
the drive was specially featured.
“A-sharp”: With suggestions for a per-
manent symphony orchestra gaining weight,
it would not be a bad thing if Sunday-after-
noon orchestral performances were given a
trial in Sydney. Landon Ronald and Henry
Wood wave the baton over the famous Royal
Albert Hall orchestra at the Palladium in
London every Sunday, and though admission-
prices are low —you can get in for a shilling
—and the performers number nearly 100,
there’s not much loss on the enterprise.
Sydney Town H'all was crowded at the two
evening concerts of the Conservatorium
Orchestra, with Kurtz conducting, and most
of the people who went along, as well as
hundreds more who couldn’t afford a ticket,
would patronise a regular concert at popular
prices.
“Dramofilm”: The use of pictorial insets
in the film “On Trial,” noticed by the Shadow
Showman, was not confined to the talkie.
When George M. Cohan presented the play
in N’York similar insets were utilised. Imme-
diately a character in the police-court set-
ting commenced relating an occurrence that
had happened in the past, there was an almost
instantaneous change of scene, and the affair
would be enacted before the audience’s eyes.
A revolving stage did the trick, and the
action was far more convincing than a mere
verbal recital could have been.
“ J. 8.”: The world-wide wail of the show-
man that the talkies are going to ruin the
legitimate stage is an echo of a similar out-
cry in England away back when puppet-
plays were introduced. So extremely popu-
lar did they become that a petition from the
Drury-lane Theatre management was put
before the King praying that one of them
near by be removed to prevent Old Drury
being closed for want of patronage. Even
a big opera season conducted by George
Frederick Handel slumped. Where are the
puppet shows now?
“Cu-ee” (London) : Bob Chisholm, who
was a big success in Australia in “The Maid
of the Mountains,” having a ’busman’s holi-
day in London has presented a variety act
at the Palladium, Holborn and Coliseum at
a salary well over three figures. He returns
to America urgently, with a good Schubert
Brothers musical-comedy job to fill. Anona
Wilkins, now Winn, is appearing in variety
with a girl partner; Bert Hopping, ex-
spruiker of Melbourne Tivoli, is playing the
picture theatres in and around the West
End with an act framed by George Carney,
and is doing very well; Athol Tier, of
“Leave It to Jane,” is now doing a single
act, whilst his wife, Peggy Ross, looks after
Tier, junior; Robert Lascelles and Thurza
Rogers are playing cabarets, and Jack
Hooker and Dorothy Seaward have just com-
pleted a two years’ run in revue with Tom
Arnold in the provinces.
THE DURATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ‘The Talkies are just a craze. When the women
get tired of them they will find their level,’ he
said emphatically.”
The Talkies talk and the Singies sing,
It seems that noise is just now the thing;
And the soothing sleep you might once expect
By tinny grumbles and yelps is wrecked.
The mute and the mummer sigh for jobs,
Whilst the crowd, craze-hungry, pays its bobs
To hear the stuff that the puppets spout....
How long will the women last it out?
One joy have I in the Talkie hall,
When the Potted Voices grate o’er all;
My wife (her tongue for the first time tied)
Sits stunned and silently at my side.
I laugh with glee (though the ushers frown)
To know that something can talk her down!
But the mode is passing, beyond a doubt.
H'ow long will the women_last it out?
K.S.W.
CESAR'S GHOST.


»■>►>»»> K|
Columbia
» * » fr. *<<<«
«<< « <<<
/WrO L YOUJL HOME
o
wrdi's
masterworh lull tax'iaia
has at last been recorded
in complete fornv
by Columbia
AGAIN Columbia has produced a masterpiece
- in complete opera recording. For years the
most popular work in the whole Italian reper-
toire, “Traviata” is ever fascinating by its
wealth of beautiful melodies, so expressive of the
pathetic story. This performance is truly glori-
ous in warmth of tone and dramatic intensity.
The principals are famous and brilliant artists;
the great La Scala chorus complete the perfec-
tion of the rendering. The recording is one of
Columbia’s finest achievements, and English
opera-lovers will take the keenest delight in the
fascinating prose translation specially written
for it by Mr. Compton Mackenzie.
What could be more delightful than to hear Grand Opera
in the comfort of your own home, following the words
of the singers in an English translation which is, in it-
self, a joy to read ! What better entertainment could
you offer your guests ? Or your children ?
In ART ALBUM, with special Booklet of Italian words and
English prose translation by COMPTON MACKENZIE
Complete (15 Records) ... <£4/10/*
OTHER OPERAS
COMPLETE ON COLUMWIoA
CAN*
R.UST
J?
RKOROS
COLUMBIA
Obtainable at cAll Leading 3\Ausic Stores
r
■n-
I
ALWAYS
USE
COLUMBIA
NEEDLES.
Columbia
!&£*> Records
MAGIC NOTES
TRADE MARK.
ELECTRIC RECORDING - WITHOUT SCRATCH.
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS.
N.S.W.: Grafonola, Ltd., 39 Liverpool Street, Sydney.
VIC.: Columbia Distributors (Vic.) Pty., Ltd., 300 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
QUEENSLAND: King & King, Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane.
A. E. Harrold, 123-125 Charlotte Street, Brisbane.
W.A.: Phonographs, Ltd., 671 Hay Street, Perth.
S.A.: South Australian Phonograph Co., Ltd., Gilbert Buildings, Gilbert Place, Adelaide
TAS. : Columbia Supplies (Tas.) Pty.. Ltd., Launceston, Hobart and Burnie.


The West
The Trousers
for
Hard Wear.
They’re “R o t li-
sted” Ready-for-
Service Trousers,
Tailored fr o m
sv
Wool Saddle Twist—and Guaranteed.
Satin Finish—Tough Wearing. Side
and Hip Pockets—Belt Loops—Hip
Straps—and Gauntlet Bottoms.
In Fawn, Light and Dark Grey, 37/6
State Size when ordering.
ROTHWELLS OUTFITTING
-\~LIMITED^~
edwapdstreet Brisbane
VICHY «
I
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridgfe Street, Sydney.
When you come to
SYDNEY 1
You will find at Usher’s every essen-
tial to the enjoyment of your visit.
Hotel service that is homelike,
cuisine of rare excel-
lence, and that
friendly hospitality
which you desire.
Telephone and run-
ning water in all
rooms. Book accom-
modation early.
Bed
an d
Br <*kfast
Tariff
desired
Special tariff or inclusive terms.
&
H O
T
OPP. THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
’Phone 156511 (10 lines).
Cable & Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel,” Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
While the fate of the Federal Arbitration
Court is being decided at Canberra, Deputy-
President Quick and Drake-Brockman, J.,
are wrestling with two railway cases in
Sydney. There is no sign of failing powers
in John Quick, though he was a member
of the Convention which drafted the Com-
monwealth Constitution. Day after day he
listens to highly technical evidence, and
takes copious notes; and he has been dealing
with these particular cases since 1922. And
though he pores over an appalling heap of
documents, largely masses of figures, he does
not use glasses. Yet he is going on for 78.
Dick Glasson, one of the prospectors of
C. H. HOLMES,
one of Vic.
Railway Commis-
sioner Clapp’s
young men, prac-
tising a precept of
the Chief.
Edie Creek, has
had an adventur-
ous career. He was
a buffalo - shooter
and a bSche-de-mer
man in the North-
ern Territory, and
a hunter of dead-
lier game with the
A.I.F. His love of
roaming took him
to New Guinea,
where t he has
cleaned up a for-
tune. Besides his
mining interests, he
is part-owner of
three cocoanut
plantations, Borum,
Mumm and Branch,
and he recruits
native labor in a
large way from
such places as the
Sepik River.
A. G. . Williams, a retired builder of Bal-
wyn (Vic.), believes in seeing liis own coun-
try first. lie has just returned from a 7000-
mile trip to Darwin and back with a carload
of buffalo horns, kangaroo skins and native
weapons. Williams helped to pioneer Aus-
tralian moving-pictures. One of his assist-
ants was George Wilkins, the Arctic and
Antarctic explorer, who, after a 20,000-mile
trip in a Zeppelin—it travelled from Tokio
to ’Frisco in three days—has married
Suzanne Bennett, the Westralian-horn act-
ress.
The Hon. George Peel, who is now in
Australia discussing cable-wireless merger
business with the Bruce Government, has
two connections with this country. He
was on Gallipoli, where he was thrice men-
tioned in despatches, and he married Lady
Agnes Lyons, a sister of Earl Beauchamp,
former Governor of N. S. Wales. An ances-
tor was the Sir Robert Peel who intro-
duced Freetrade into Britain and gave the
London bobby his nickname.
G. T. Allen, first sec. of the Federal
Treasury, who retired 12 years ago, passed
the 77tli milepost in Melbourne the other
day. The hearty old man has outlived
most of his political and departmental con-
temporaries. He was accountant in the Vic.
Treasury before the Commonwealth grabbed
him.
A bugle has blown the Last Post for Bill
Shirley, creator of the Sphinx at Kuring-gai
Chase (N.S.W.). Shirley, a stonemason by
trade, was wounded at Bullecourt —ho was
in the 13th Batt. —and developed T.B.
Unable to do regular work, and finding time
hanging heavy on his hands in the Lady
Davidson Home, he started on the Sphinx.
Carved out of a solid rock 12 feet high, it
is a work that will keep his memory green.
F. R. Mercer, who has helped to bring
Westralia into prominence by his work as
Government publicity officer, is leaving the
service shortly to edit the Perth Primary
Producer. He succeeds Vic. Riseley, cheer-
fullcst of Westralian pressmen, who has
edited the Producer since the Coekies started
it before the war. Riseley has political
ambitions, and may have a cut at one of the
country seats next year. He stood for the
Senate in 1919, but there was no Nat.-Cocky
understanding in those days, and his vote,
though good, wasn’t good enough.
Captain Jacka, V.C., M.C. and bar, is
standing for a vacancy in St. Kilda Coun-
cil. The hero of Courtney’s Post is a
member of the firm of Jacka, Edmonds and
Co., of Little Collins-street, Melbourne.
Rev. T. M. Flood, of Adelaide, made a
dramatic finish in a suburban church. He
entered it for the evening service, and rose
from his knees only to fall dead on the plat-
form. He was a Lancashire man of 71, with
40 years’ service among the Methodists in
S.A.
Bill Lingford lives in the Hermit Group,
New Guinea, and reckons the group well
named; his nearest white neighbor is 190
miles away. His house is the finest in the
Mandated Territory; it was built by a Ger-
man millionaire. Lingford has six house-
boys, four gardeners and 120 laborers. He
has come to Australia to see what has gone
wrong with the copra market.
A notable figure at the Honolulu Medical
Congress was Dr. H’arry Harris, of Sydney,
who explained how he had transformed
what used to be a frequently fatal and
always dangerous operation to the prostate
gland into one comparatively safe. One of
the patients who can testify to the import-
ance of the Macquarie-street specialist’s dis-
covery is Joe Coates, M.L.C., who was
operated on early this year. Coates was
honorary Minister in the first Lang Govern-
ment —very honorary, for, contrary to cus-
tom, he didn’t get a bean.
Louis Lars Jensen, a Gippsland pioneer,
has gone over the hill, at! 97. He was three
times Mayor of Sale. Until the last year
or two he was an active worker for the
town; when he was 94 he went along to a
Mechanics’ Institute committee meeting “to
shake things up,” as he put it.
Sinclair Miller arrived at Cairns (N.Q.)
about 47 years ago. He settled there, sent to
Scotland for his mother, sisters and brother,
and settled them in the district, where the
clan prospered. Miller started the first
Cairns sawmill, was employed by Swallow
at the first sugar mill at Hambledon, and
as a contractor built a good part of present-
day Cairns. He was 71 when he died the
other day.
Some war memories are stirred by the
arrival of Captain Billyard Leake and his
wife to settle on a station property in the
Cowra (N.S.W.) district. Captain Billyard
Leake’s father was the Australian, resident
in England, who lent Harefield Park to the
A.I.F. during the war for use as a hospital.
One of his sons was a middy on FI.M.A.S.
Australia when war broke out; lie took part
in the capture of the German Pacific colonies,
in the battle of Jutland (he was then a sub-
lieut. on the Warspite), in the anti-sub-
marine campaign and in the dash on Zee-
brugge. At the end of the war lie was flag
lieutenant", Chevalier of the Legion of the
Honor, and holder of the Croix de Guerre
with Palm.
A feature of the physics, mathematics and
astronomy conference just concluded at
Melb. University was the extreme youth of
the readers of some of the most abstruse
treatises. W. J. Wark, R. Fallon and J.
Pawsey, who presented a joint work on
measurement of frequency from broadcasting
stations, are all in their early twenties; and
R. O. Cherry, member of a family which
includes three brilliant scientists, has only
just reached his majority. Cherry has been
conducting researches into the field inten-
sities of radio broadcasting stations. Another
youngster is A. H. Turner, who superintends
the Commonwealth Radio Laboratory. He
described methods for measuring radium
emanations.
The quaint distinction is claimed for the
Earl of Coventry, the U.K.’s most venerable
nobleman, that he has held a peerage for
a longer period that anyone has ever achieved
since such articles were first dispensed in
Merrie England. The earl, who has just
' turned 91, came into the title at 5, so he
has had a lengthy innings, but it was only
last month that he beat the record of some
nineteenth-century baron. Such other fame as
STUART DOYLE, managing director of
Union Theatres. He has fallen foul of
the Bruce-Page Government over the
new film duties and the 5 p.c. tax on
receipts, and has been rebuked for
resorting to “American methods of
political pressure
he has earned is mostly horsey; he has
thrice been Master of the Buckhounds. The
earl’s eldest son, the late Lord Deerliurst,
obtained some notoriety when he was an
A.D.C. in Victoria, over 40 years ago. ■
Liman von Sanders, Generalissimo of the
Turkish forces in the Great War, will fight
no more. Defying the laws of neutrality,
he manned the Dardanelles forts with Ger-
man and Austrian artillerymen long before
Turkey’s entry into the row, and thus con-
tributed more than anyone else to the failure
of the Allied naval attempt to force the
Straits. After his success in Gallipoli he
was kept busy on all the Turkish fronts,
He tried to rally the Turks in Palestine
early in 1918, when Jacko was well on the
run before Allenby, and he had the nar-
rowest of escapes from capture when British
and Indian cavalry surprised his headquar-
ters at Nazareth. Tall and thin,, with a
stork-like neck, Sanders bore a resemblance
to Crown Prince Willie, and was alleged to
be proud of it.
J. W. Baldie, who is to retire from the
Papuan civil service in December, is one of
the old hands, having joined it in 1907 as a
Treasury clerk at Port Moresby. After a
period as sub-collector of Customs at
Samarai, he returned to headquarters and
has remained there ever since, during late
years as Resident Magistrate for the Central
Division and Senior Warden for the Astro-
labe goldfield, which includes the old Lake-
kamu diggings.
George Shearer has had the unusual
experience of representing a body of wage-
earners at a conference with employers, when
lie was an employer himself. He was a
manufacturing jeweller, and at the con-
ference he said he was paying his men the
increased wages sought by the general body,
producing his books to prove that the busi-
ness was paying handsomely. The N.S.W.
Union of Jewellers and Watchmakers now
calls him secretary. Shearer has strong
teetotal views, and holds the imposing title
of Grand Superintendent of Legislative
Work of the Political Council of the Inter-
national Order of Good Templars, Grand
Lodge of N.S.W.
When the Scottish-Australian delegation
was on its way to Britain “Old Brig.” Ryrie
made an assembly of Englishmen laugh by
asking them if they could imagine 600 Aus-
tralians getting a living in Scotland. At least
one Australian is doing well in Scotland—
Rex Knight, who has been appointed
Anderson Lecturer in Comparative Psy-
chology at the University of Aberdeen; pre-
viously he had a lectureship in Philosophy
and Psychology at St. Andrews. Knight
is a Sydney Uni. graduate; awarded the
Woolley Travelling Scholarship, he spent two
years at Cambridge. After leaving that uni-
versity he was assistant to Dr. Myers, direc-
tor of the National Institute of Industrial
Psychology, lecturing the while on Applied
Psychology in the London School of
Economics.
Dr. A. B. Begg, of the Stroud Labora-
tories, London, is returning to Maoriland to
continue his cancer-research work at Otago
University, of which he is a distinguished
son. Begg was with the Anzacs at Gallipoli
from landing to evacuation. He qualified in
medicine and surgery in 1919, and after a
year as house surgeon at Timaru hospital
went abroad for further study. Before
going to the Stroud institution, Begg was
engaged in research work in Germany, and
was associated with the famous Dr. Gye.
Many Melbourne clergymen regard the
cinema as a manifestation of the Evil One,
but Rev. W. H. Chamberlain, of St. Paul’s,
West Footscray, is not one of them. He.
runs a picture-show of his own, thereby
benefiting the church revenues considerably,
and giving the local populace an entertain-
ment which is decent but not dull.
After 61 years at sea, Captain William
Arthur Wildman, the best-known character
in Maoriland coastal shipping, has retired.
He was in the service of the Anchor Co. from
1875 onwards, getting his first command in
1890. As master of the Aorere he traded
down the West Coast during the roaring days
of the gold rushes. In 1916 he was given
charge of the Nelson-Wellington ferry service,
since when he has covered over 400,000 miles
in 4000 crossings. “I know nearly every
stone in the Strait,” lie once said; “and, as
for Pciorous Jack, I’ve all but stroked
him.” Prom his home on the Port Hills the
old skipper will be able to watch the white
funnels coming and going on their lawful
occasions. A son commands one of the
Anchor boats.
When the Vic. Assembly is dissolved
(and the axe will descend soon) the last
will be seen in the House of John Bowser
and Alfred Downward, who entered it
together 35 years ago. Bowser was Premier
in 1917-18, after having had a little train-
ing as Minister for Education in 1908; he
was Chief Sec. in 1918-19 and Speaker in
1924-27. Downward was Minister of Water
Supply and Agriculture under Bent (1908),
Minister of Mines under Bowser (1917-18)
and Minister of Lands under Allan (1924-
27). Bowser has a newspaper (the Wanga-
ratta Chronicle) and Downward a farm,
and neither proposes to give up work alto-
gether. Bowser’s shyness discounted his
undoubted ability, but a literary finish
marked his speeches, and he loved to chat
with a kindred soul about books and big
men. Downward, a likeable countryman, has
been fascinated, if not enslaved, by politics
from middle life to ripe old age.
P.-C. Michael J. Murphy is the first man
to reach the rank of first constable, lately
created by Vic. Commissioner Blarney.
Murphy is a dead shot with a revolver. Some
years ago he arrested a crook, who got away
from him in a crowded thoroughfare. Murphy
hailed a passing motor-car, hopped on the
running-board, and
succeeded in wing-
ing his man while
travelling at speed.
Dr. A. A.
LENDON, one
of the S. Aus.
delegates to the
Australasian
Medical Congress,
now being held
in Sydney. He
has been president
of the B.M.A.
in his State,
and is an enthu-
siastic Rotarian.
“Si Ann”: Australia’s old friend the
Sultan of Johore, who used to be mainly
remarkable for his punting proclivities and
the jewels in his teeth, has settled down in
his old age and become a bulwark of the
Empire. His dominion, whose enormous
coastline is a stone’s-throw from the Singa-
pore base, once derived most of its revenue
from opium and gambling farms; last year
it produced over one-tenth of the world’s
rubber. Its total trade was over 10 million
sterling and the gross surplus was 31 mil-
lions. All this has been achieved in spite of
the fact that to the average Johore official
bribery and corruption came as naturally as
betel-nut chewing, and that there were
glorious opportunities during the Stevenson
restriction period for smuggling rubber. When
I first visited the Sultan’s country, 20 years
ago, to lose my month’s salary at one of his
fantan tables, it was one vast sea of jungle
inhabited by tree-dwelling Sakais. To-day it
is criss-crossed by perfect roads, and the chief
jungle peril is the Sakai driving his Ford.
ANOTHER TIME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You couldn’t miss with Joe the Flat;
For any put-up joke he’d fall;
The lads had all discovered that
He’d “come at” anything at all.
A simple, kindly soul was Joe,
And with a faith no man could shake
He always claimed some day he’d show
A profit on each past mistake.
“It isn't goin’ to worry me.
I’ve only got meself to blame.
Another time,” he’d say, “I’ll see
Right through and through your clever
game.
I grant the laugh’s on me to-day,
And p’r’aps I was a trifle slow;
But there is always this,” he’d say.
“Another time a man’ll know.”
Another time did come for Joe,
But it was one that took him where
(If they are right who claim to know)
The game is always on the square.
He gave his life “Somewhere in France”;
It sometimes seems a bitter thought,
In life he never got the chance
To use the knowledge dearly bought.
He’s sleeping in a far-off land;
In memories withal he’ll live
Of mates who know he’ll understand .
And never doubt that he’ll forgive.
And it may be his pity goes
To where we, too, are waiting for
(With hope that ever fainter grows)
“Another time” that comes no more.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Sucre”: The story about the theft of a
house in a Melbourne suburb (B. 21/8/’29)
recalls a happening at Bell (Q.). Early
one morning a goods-train discharged a
weatherboard office designed to accommo-
date the S.M., and sped on its way. A
local cocky had ordered what is euphemisti-
cally. termed an outhouse from a distant
building firm that specialised in ready-made
structures, and Dad had received the simple
message “House railed” on the preceding
evening. Soon after sunrise he drew up
his team at the railway-siding and eyed the
weatherboard contraption with proprietorial
pride. “Cripes,” lie said, “I didn’t expect a
window in it”; and with Dave’s assistance
he juggled it on to the dray and departed.
ANOTHER ENDURANCE TEST.
GUS (after tenth good-night kiss ): “One more, darling.”
MERLE (very sleepy): “Oh, do go home! I’m no Blarney Stone.”
Next day an irate S.M. wired headquarters:
"Where is my office? The 4.40 up left no-
thing.”
* >:= * *
“Schnorrer”: The cahleman or his local
interpreter slipped badly when he referred to
a “Moslem funeral in Tel Aviv” as having
started the Arab uprising in Palestine. A
Moslem funeral in that 100 per cent. Jewish
town —the only one of its kind in the world —
would be as likely as Buddhist obsequies
in Aberdeen. Originally a suburb of
Jaffa, Tel Aviv has developed inside
15 years into a garden city with a popula-
tion of 40,000 people and all the refinements
of the twentieth century. Hebrew is the only
language spoken within its boundaries, except
when English is employed to oblige a visitor.
What probably happened was that, under the
guise of a Moslem funeral procession, a party
of Arabs from Jaffa approached Tel Aviv
on violence bent. The prosperity of the
Jewish town—in sharp contrast to untidy,
sordid Joppa—would be quite sufficient to
incite the attack.
* * * *
“Gouger”: Hebron, where Arabs have been
massacring Jews, will be well remembered
by survivors of the 2nd Light Horse Brigade.
After the capture of Beersheba we headed
for the precipitous Judsean hills near Hebron.
The Turks rushed up some batteries of
German artillery, posted them on top of the
hills and gave us particular hell as our
horses struggled below in the rocky gullies.
We scrambled towards the enemy over the
roughest country, but the Turks lined the
hilltops across the valley, and forced us to
take shelter amongst the rocks on the oppo-
site side. No man dared cross that long,
white, age-old Hebron-road, once trodden by
Christ. In the fighting days that followed,
cowled Bedouins squatted like silhouetted
vultures on the hills directly behind us, and
betrayed our sheltering positions to the
Turkish artillery across the valley. As a
shell would fall near us, a white-cowled
figure would stand innocently up, and the
distant enemy would know exactly where to
aim the next shell. But with our murdered
horses the bones of some of those vultures
lie rotting amongst the Judaean hills.
❖ :J:
“Hamer”: The latest man-woman has
cropped up in Sydney. Her story originally
was that she had adopted male attire in girl-
hood, and carried on as a man in various
strenuous callings because it paid best; and
there, the matter might have ended but for a
case in which she sued an employer for money
owing. The magistrate laid it down that to
support a claim for a man’s wage it must
first be established that the claimant was a
man. Has evidence to that effect ever been
demanded in a court before?
H® »l* :f: £
“Lao-dah”: There is another side to the
case of the woman who bore triplets after
a Cesarean operation in Hobart Hospital.
The mother married at the age of 14. She
had a family of 10 by the time she was 29.
She is now dead, and the last batch of young
Australians are to go into a mothercraff
home. There is nothing much for the State
to congratulate itself on in that.
***■■#
“Shep”: Inside of a week a bare and
desolate patch of earth in Hyde Park, Syd-
ney, was recently converted into a thriving
shrubbery which bore every appearance of
years of cultivation. Also, protests made
about the time necessary before a tree can
attain any ornamental value were proved to
be utter rubbish. Trees and shrubs and
palms up to ip years old were transplanted
from other quarters to the new garden site,
and each allotted a position to show it off
to its best advantage. Simultaneously scores
of hydrangeas that have brightened up the
park walks for years were shifted to make
an effective edging for the shrubbery. To
do the job necessitated the biggest massed
attack of experienced gardeners ever let
loose in Sydney.
*.'**.*
“Buna”: It was approaching noon on
Saturday, and the operator in a Melbourne
photographic studio was attending to his last
sitter, an attractive flapper. When she was
about to go the young man said lie had
been expecting a bridal couple, and asked
the girl to see if they were in the waiting-
room. The flapper gave a hurried glance
round the ladies’ dressing-room, and advised
it as unoccupied, so the young man blithely
departed. The studio, the top floor on a
seven-storeyed building, is lighted mainly
from the roof, and the only side window, looks
out on to a blind alley. It was here that
a drunk, who at nightfall had sought the
place for a snooze, found his rest broken by
strange sounds that his muddled brain finally
traced to a tiny window far overhead. Par-
tially sobered, he made for the nearest hotel
and reported that a man was trying to com-
mit suicide from the top floor of the build-
ing. A crowd collected, and, after listening
to some remarks from the head that pro-
truded from the tiny window, somebody bor-
rowed the fire keys from the near-by station,
and rescuers tramped up the stairs. On
the top floor they found an exhausted young
man, with a wilted flower in his buttonhole,
and a dishevelled and tearful bride, both of
whom had spent six long hours shouting for
help. She had been in her husband’s dress-
ing-room putting some final touches to his
tie when the operator turned the key and left.
“Clarence Cafeteria”: The Vic. Act elimi-
nating barmaids by superannuation was
passed in 1916, and it is often asked whether
Hebes have the secret of perpetual youth,
for there seem as many of them as
ever. One explanation is that many of the
ladies are not barmaids in the accepted sense
at all, but wives or daughters of the
licensees, and therefore exempt under the
statute. Another is that the science of face-
lifting, wrinkle-erasing and hair-dyeing has
SHEER EXTRAVAGANCE.
MRS. DIBBS: “Ven ve vas in Europe, ve bought a Rembrandt, a Rubens and an Orpen.”
MRS DOUGH: “Really, darling; but whatever are you going to do with three cars?”
made great strides in the interim. Never-
theless, an impartial observer must conclude
that 13 years have taken their toll, and that
the struggle between inexorable time and
the profession is not going all in favor of
the latter. There were 3800 registered ’maids
in 1920, but many have dropped out, and the
basic wage, which has not been increased for
a long time, stands at so low a figure—£3
11s. 6d. —that the business lacks some of its
old attraction. Also, imbibers have long be-
come accustomed to having their shandies
handed them by male creatures.
* * # *
“Mono-mark” The recent departure from
Adelaide for Italy of a party of gypsies
foi’med a queer ending to a mucli-talkcd-of
case. A female member of the band induced
a country bank-teller to hold £.120 in his
hands while she told his fortune. According
to the victim the Romany lady
somehow “cast a spell” over him
and decamped with the money.
She was arrested, convicted and
sentenced to two years’ impri-
sonment. After a few weeks in
gaol she became ill, and the
prison doctor expressed himself
as convinced that continued cap-
tivity would prove fatal. The
Government was appealed to,
and consented to the woman’s
release provided she and mem-
bers of her family left the coun-
try. Subscriptions were raised
among Southern Eux-opean resi-
dents in S. Aus. to pay the
fares; at the last moment the
Government demanded the re-
return of the stolen money as
a condition of release. Although
the gypsy had strongly protested
her innocence the money was
immediately repaid.
“P.M.”: Touching - the war-time dispensa-
tion to .Tews (B. 21/8/’29), I know a coun-
try publican who issued one off his own bat.
A party of travellers turned up for lunch.
They included several of the Chosen, and all
he had in the larder was the flesh of the
unclean animal. “I cut the fat off and dished
up slices of lean pork as turkey,” he told me,
“and they said they had never tasted better
poultry.”
* ❖ ❖ #
“Chev” : A correspondent of the Melbourne
Herald recently intruded into the contro-
versy as to where the subway across Flinders-
street should be placed by pointing out that
the subway already exists. It was built to
carry away storm water, and is large enough
to accommodate a tramcar. The storm water
is now mainly carried away by the sewage
channels, so the tunnel could be made avail-
able by the addition of ramps and entrances
at certain street corners. It will be curious
if this forgotten hurrow provides the solu-
tion of the traffic problem.
“Stellsby” : The sad experience of “Runa’s”
accountant who interfered in a domestic quar-
rel (B. 21/8/’29) recalls to my mind a
February morning many years ago when a
shipmate and myself were homing along the
notorious “Marsh” (Victoria Dock-road,
London) in the sma’ hours. Suddenly the
screams of a woman mingled with the bel-
lows of some maddened brute, and we lit
out for the scene at the double. But on
our appearance a lady, who was clad simply
in a chemise, and a burly ruffian, wearing
nothing beyond an abbreviated shirt,
abandoned their private quarrel, and made it
clear, with much blasphemous invective,
that the woman regarded our knight-erran-
try as common trespass. What is more, the
nearly naked pair, bellowing and screaming,
chased us down the deserted “Marsh” to
the accompaniment of a hundred pushed-up
windows until we eluded them in the friendly
river fog. I take no shame in our apparent
cowardice; a subsequent newspaper report
about a constable finding Adam and Eve
quarrelling as they wended their way back to
Eden along the Victoria Dock-road at 3 a.m.
convinced me that our flight was opportune.
Never since have I gone to the aid of a
female in distress.
* * * *
“Squadron Leader”: Am inclined to
doubt that yarn about the Jewish settlement
at Richon-le-Sion in Palestine taking tin-
meat labels for banknotes (B. 28/8/’29).
To the Light Horsemen, the most astonish-
ing thing about these settlements was the
number of English-speaking Jews in them.
Americans were numerous, and often Aus-
tralians came along. One of our Queens-
landers was greeted in Deiran by a man
he remembered as a well-known pawnbroker
in Brisbane some years previously, and a
Westra'lian was hailed by a former Perth
fruiterer. Such a community was hardly
likely to be taken in as described.
* * * *
“Crocus”: The Madigan aerial expedition
into Central Australia has resulted in two
discoveries—the first expected by all old
bushmen who had been near the unknown
country between the Oodnadatta-Alice
Springs railway and the Queensland
border. Madigan reports that this 27,000
square miles of Centralia is entirely
covered with sand-dunes. His second dis-
covery is that Lake Eyre is solid land.
This was established by dropping specially-
designed spears at intervals across the lake.
They stuck in and remained upright, and
were photographed by way of evidence.
Unknown to the party, accident policies of
£2OOO per member were taken out at Lloyds
for their benefit by the president of the S.
Aus. branch of the Royal Geographical
Society, who promoted the expedition.
“C.Q.”: The report of the Madigan expedi-
tion on the exceeding dryness of Lake Eyre
gives a fresh aspect to the proposed
sortie of Victorian scientists to the lake to
dig for the bones of prehistoric mammals.
George Alston, who brought the two Arunta
tribesmen down to the abo. art exhibition,
has offered to lead the party, but only if it
consists of a bare five persons.
❖ ❖ * *
“Wakatu”: There has just died at Grey-
mouth (M.L.) a well-known Chinese char-
acter who for many years was cook at one
of the local hotels. “Old Charlie” had a
horror of the clause in his contract which
demanded one week’s notice of intention to
leave. He hit upon a novel plan of ensur-
ing his right to throw down his pots and
pans and walk out on the spot. Every day
or two he would take off his apron, approach
the proprietress and say, “Missy, me go one
week. Thanks.” But he remained for 13 years.
* * * *
“Millwill”: The Chandos Arms in Lon-
don, over the closing of which “Armiger”
drops a tear (B. 31/7/’29),_ isn’t the oldest
pub in England. There are several claimants,
but the honor is generally assigned to the
Angel and Royal Hotel in Grantham, Lin-
colnshire. Its first Royal patron is said to
have been King John, wdio stayed there in
1209. Part of the original fabric still stands,
and many Diggers of the Machine-gun Corps
will remember the bar with its historical
surroundings.
SPRING A LA SWINBURNE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now the hints of Spring are on fifty faces,
Ihe mother of months when the surf-
queens reign
san< l-sheiks bask in the sunny places
Where the wild waves murmur their low
refrain.
Now the bookie, hoarsely clamorous,
Will soon be importuning us
do our good brass in at the races
(And sleep mayhap in the bare Domain).
There are elbows bent where the beer-pumps
quiver,
r . Less call for the tids that burn and bite;
I hough malt and hops may aggrieve the liver
You can’t deny that their kick is light.
On with your beret * Beryl, my sweet,
Over that permanent wave so neat,
And I’ll take you out for a run in my flivver,
lor the balm of Spring’s in the air to-
night.
J jo ! . W inter’s woes and whimsies are over,
With women coated in furs and skins.
Eftsoons shall the batsman knock fhe cover
Off balls unguarded by swerves or spins.
And feats at footer are nigh forgotten,
Hot rum becometh a lure that’s rotten,
And ice-cream joints will be soon in clover
For with September the Spring begins.
The dandy knut to his tailor rushes,
And patterns picks for a nifty suit;
the fair, fresh cheek of the flapper flushes
As her boy imprinteth his first salute.
The earth awakes to a vernal fire
That glows in the notes of the feathered
choir
And leaps to life in the Balmain crushes
Where the basher gang puts in the boot.
And the bard he sitteth him down to write
A lilting ode, being a sanguine kid,
That shall strike the Editor as quite
The happiest thing he ever did.
And he tells’ himself, ere the ink has dried,
How he’ll take the stairs with a buoyant
stride,
His heart with the urge of Spring alight,
To hold the cashier up for a quid.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Matelot”: The little red topknot the
French man-o’-warsman wears on his cap—
pom-pom, he calls it—is for some reason
ardently desired by the female of the species.
When the French cruiser Tourville, now in
Australian waters, was in Auckland, the
M.L. girls souvenired them so ardently that the
ship’s crew presented an almost uniformly-
plucked appearance on being mustered. The
result was the posting of a notice stating
that if a pom-pom went a.w.l. while the
ship was in Australian ports, the loser would
have all shore leave stopped for the re-
mainder of the cruise.
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket” : Talking about land-
ladies who impress the value of certain
objects of art on their lodgers (B. 28/8/’29)
reminds me of a friend who, on taking pos-
session of what was probably the best room
in a Darlinghurst apartment house, was in-
formed that he was being entrusted with
the custody of the family heirlooms. The
family Bible and album of photographs were
amongst the ornaments, the staring enlarge-
ments on the walls represented the departed
great of the clan, and some pistols on the
walls had belonged to a great uncle—an
inspector of police. “You’ll take great care
of that vawse on the mantelpiece, won’t
you?” said the landlady. “It’s fast-
ened down so’s it can’t be opened, but I
don’t like it to be fiddled with. You see,
it’s me husband —he was cremated.” My
friend said that he never felt quite comfort-
able in that room.
* *
“Gouger” : Fresh from the scorching heat
of the Jordan Valley, we reached Jerusalem
in a bitterly cold wind, and noted a few
•lews by the Wailing Wall, so much men-
tioned in the cables of late. They looked
shivering bundles of rags. Then we returned
to the Valley of Desolation by descending
3000 ft. down the old Roman road, and found
some humans who had even more to wail
about. Even the Bedouins clear out of that
hell in summer, but there was a curious
tribe of scrags or strays left, a forlorn
crowd of derelicts who always reminded me
of our own mulga abos. They were a hybrid
mob, said to be descended from African
slaves imported by the Arabs in their days
of conquest. They seemed to live mostly
CLIPPING HER WINGS.
“My new friend is desperately keen on me. He even wants to drive his car with one
arm around me!”
“Thank goodness, mine has a chauffeur.”
in holes in the ground, and snakes, spiders
and sandflies looked to be about the
only things that could furnish them with
food. The official military handbook of
Palestine lias placed it upon record that
“nothing is known of the climate of the
Lower Jordan Valley in summer time, since
no civilised human being has yet been found
to spend a summer there.” And yet our
boys stuck it, and how many paid the
penalty! * * *
“Tiao-dali” • While sympathising with
“Bouragi” in his plea for “Plain Talk in the
Possessions” (B. 21/8/’29), I cannot agree
with his contention that good English is
as easv to teach the native as pidgin Eng-
lish. There are innumerable forms of pid-
gin, but, whatever variety is analysed, its
syntax will be found to follow the natural
genius of the language of the user, because
he is thinking in his own tongue though
expressing himself in another. It may sound
horrible to our ears to hear an archbishop
described as “a number one joss
pidgin man,” but that is the way a China-
man thinks of one. As a matter of fact, it
is harder for a white man to speak correct
pidgin than for a native. I heard an Australian
in Singapore failing miserably to make him-
self understood in a hotel bedroom. I found
he was speaking the Darwin patois, adding
“ee” to every second word under the impres-
sion that that made it more intelligible.
>|C ifc #
“Keg”: “Imogen’s” tram conductor who
was scared when a girl passenger took his
number and told him her father was a mem-
ber of Parliament must have been very new to
his job. We trammies are constantly meeting
daughters and sons of legislators and of bar-
risters—the latter being generally K.C.’s —
and, what is more high-sounding from our
point of view, particular friends of one of
the Railway Commissioners or the Tramways
head. It is curious that they mostly crop
up when the pass is being used contrary to
regulations. Incidentally, the school con-
cession pass is nothing like the butt of a
theatre pass.
.** * *
“Lucifer”: Admittedly the Maori langu-
age has remarkable clarity and carrying
power (B. 21/8/’29), but it is absurd to
suggest that these qualities are responsible
for Byrd’s party having heard them “more
clearly than any programme for some time.
The Maori voices heard by Byrd did not
travel via the air as sound waves, but by
way of the ether and in the form of variations
of electro-magnetic waves, which were recon-
verted into sound waves in Byrd’s receiving-
set. If the explorer heard the. Maoris better
than he heard anyone else, it simply means
that he struck them on a night when con-
ditions for reception were better.
* * * *
“Wakatu” : Remarking “I have met your
sort before,” a lady suddenly and soundly
smacked the face of a citizen seated be-
side her in an Auckland tram, and tlie
conductor brought the car to a stop, con-
jecturing that it might be a case for the
police. An unofficial investigation, however,
effectually cleared the smacked one. A live
duck in a bag had been deposited under the
seat by another passenger, and the bird had
done the damage by protruding its beak tor
a hungry peck at a silk-stockinged leg. ike
lady apologised.
SJ: *
“Lampey”: “Centurion” (B. 21/8/’29)
has confused the Buffs, originally the old ord
Regiment of Foot and now the East Kent
Regiment, with the Queen’s Own Royal W est
Kent Regiment. The latter was originally
the 50th Foot, and the men were nicknamed
the “Dirty Half-Hundred” from their habit
of wiping their perspiring faces with their
black cuffs in hot weather. Originally they
had black facings, but in 1831 they were
given blue facings on becoming a Royal
Regiment. They were also called the Blind
H'alf-riundred,”'because they charged a brick
wall in the darkness during the war in Spain
in 1807. Strangely enough, I served in the
Red Marines and also, in 1889, in the W est
Kent Regiment.
t. * * *
“R.H.”: There is good historical warrant
for the assumption in .T. H. M. Abbott’s
story “Charity” (B. 21/8/’29) that Gover-
nor'Phillip’s threat to have a woman con-
vict’s hair cut off would have an immediate
salutary effect on the transgressor. "They
dislike this more than any other punish-
ment,” wrote Dr. Arthur Bowes, of the
female convict transport Lady Penrhyn,
which brought out 100 women, young, middle-
aged and old. Yet some of the other punish-
ments, of which the worthy doctor tells in
his diary, make one shudder to think of.
They included the “putting on of thumb-
screws ; and the greater part of them are
an abandoned set of wretches.... so very
abusive whilst under punishment that there
is a necessity for gagging them; also some-
times iron fetters put on their wrists....
Also, stripped and flogged with a cat-o’-nine
tails, one or two of them.”
* * * *
“P.M.”: Experienced telegraph operators
can receive as well as send in conditions
that look almost impossible (B. 21/8/’29).
On our orderly-room staff in France we had
a telegraphist whose hobby was to sit over
the fire at night and tell Rabelaisian yarns.
One night the sounder started just as he
had begun one of his artless narratives. He
stretched out his foot and tapped the key
to notify the sender to go ahead, and then
went on with his story. The message was
finished before the yarn; when the latter
was ended and the rewarding laughter had
subsided, lie reached for his pad and wrote
down the message. It included the telegram
number, a map location and the numbers of
a couple of official photographs.
* * # *
“Cadonga”: Bill was a hard case as well
as one of the hardest drinkers in the bat-
talion. He paraded before his company com-
mander with a request for three days’ leave
the week before em-
barkation. T h e
O.C. was indignant,
and pointed out
that as all ranks
had been given em-
barkation leave he
did not propose to
reQoinmend any
application for
special leave.
Bill sighed and ex-
plained sorrowfully
that his wife would
be broken-hearted
if lie couldn’t get
this final leave,
especially as an in-
crease in the family
was expected short-
ly. However, the
0.C., remembering
that Bill had re-
cently been brought
back to camp blotto
by the military
police, was adam-
an t. “N o. Mc-
Ginty,” he declar-
ed ; “it can’t be
done. By the way,
S’arn - major,” h e
went on, “wasn’t
it this man’s wife
who wrote to me
begging that he be
given no more leave,
as he got drunk
last time and
caused a lot of
trouble?” The
s.-m. took the cue
without batting an
eyelid. “Yes, sir,
that’s right,” he re-
plied. Bill saw
there was no hope.
He saluted, and
was about to retire,
but paused to ask:
“Could I speak to
you as man to man,
sir ?” “Yes,” replied the 0.C.; “what do
you want to say?” “Only this, sir,” Bill
said. “You, me and the s’arn-major’s the
three biggest liars in the A.I.F. — I ain’t
married at all!”
# Jfc $
“ J.8.P.” : It is natural that many people
expected that the Germans would have de-
stroyed the Lion of Waterloo (B. 21/8/’29),
for all available copper and brass in Brus-
sels went into the melting-pot for German
armaments. The lovely Palais de Justice in
Brussels was stripped of all its brass and
copper fitments, and even its leather up-
holstery went to make boots for German sol-
diers. A bronze bust of Victor Hugo, erected
at Hougoumont to commemorate the great
writer’s stay in the vicinity when writing
the story of the battle as told in “Les Miser-
ables,” also disappeared. Belgian authori-
ties saved the lion, which was cast from
the metal of French cannon, by pointing out
that it was not British, but the insignia of
the House of Orange, having been erected
on the spot where the Prince of Orange was
wounded. Fritz, anxious to keep on good
terms with Holland, spared the memorial.
ik * * #
“Strict Veg.”: The village Hampden who
stopped an express train in England because
he objected to a fellow-passenger receiving
on a radio set has my sincerest sympathy.
The lengths to which this form of - intrusion
on other people’s peace of mind is carried
are becoming intolerable. Recently I was at
a football match in Melbourne, and my next-
door neighbor had a portable set reposing
on his lap. Not satisfied with looking at
the proceedings on the field, he had tuned-in
to the broadcast description, and was giving
everybody in the vicinity the benefit.
❖ ❖
“Shellback”: If national gratitude can be
shown in terms of hard cash, Britain must
have felt that it owed more to Horatio
Nelson than to any naval or military com-
mander, before or since—and quite likely it
did. The continuous pension of £5OOO a year
to the Nelson family has been paid since
1806. Nor can it be said, to have gone to
the great sailor’s descendants, for he left
none ; the grant, along with the earldom,
went to an elder brother and his heirs. This is
the only pension of the kind being collected in
the U.K., it was recently elicited in the
House of Commons, since the Rodney clan
commuted their £2OOO a year, drawn because
of their kinship to another famous admiral,
for a lump sum amounting to 21 years'
purchase. The Nelson grant, it was inti-
mated, could be treated in the same way _ if
the present or any future earl should desire
it, but not even a Labor Government would
exercise any pressure on him.
* * * *
“Escapee”: The second-class sleepers on
the Queensland railways (B. 21/8/’2B) saved
my life in 1925, the year of the ghastly
Traveston smash. I was to travel from
Brisbane to Rockhampton, and being unable
to afford a first-class sleeper I asked a
much-travelled friend what sitting up in a
first-class compartment on the Rockhampton
mail was like. “Better a second sleeper than
a first sitter,” he told me, and I took his
advice. When three carriages went over
the Traveston bridge, most of those killed
were “sitters.” My cheap sleeper was out
of the way.
# * * *
“Awani” : Choom gets a lot of chipping, but
he sometimes proves himself a resourceful
person. This one was engaged as gardener
at our local post office on the banks of the
Gwydir River (N.S.W.), and his boss being
temporarily absent it devolved on him to cart
the mailbags to the railway siding, half a
mile off, across the river. Heavy ram tell,
the river began to run a banker, the boat
was found swamped, and, worst of all, the
P.M.’s wife and kids were almost out _ol
tucker. Choom, however, rose to the occasion
and told Mrs. Dash that if she rang up
the store for groceries to be sent down on
the train, he would swim over and get them.
At her suggestion he carried Mrs. Dash’s
bathtub down to the river, put the mail-
bags in, and, stripping to the buff, swam
across, pushing the bathtub in front. When
he got to the other side lie discovered that
lie had forgotten to put his clothes into the
tub. So he wrapped the mailbags round
himself and made for the railway, where
ART OF SOME KIND.
“I’m so weary. Do I look drawn?”
“No, darling; not so much drawn as painted, really.”
lie left the bags _on the platform of the
tiny, unattended siding and obliterated him-
self underneath it. When the train had come
and gone, Choom emerged from hiding,
clothed himself in the incoming mailbags,
gathered up his parcels and sped homewards.
* * * *
“Euroa”: He staggered on to the tram and
lurched heavily against me on the platform,
his apology opening the conversation. Tin?
conductor signalled a warning behind his
back, but I had already recognised a pick-
pocket. With assumed tipsy-friendliness he
tapped me on the chest, and I was satisfied that
my massive watch-chain looked genuine to
him, and that he suspected something better
than a seven-and-sixpenny Waterbury was
attached to it. But his methods struck me as
crude; his simulated drunkenness and silly
talk were childish, and I contented myself
with keeping my hand on the small
roll of notes in my trousers pocket.
He shook hands before alighting, and
I was glad to be rid of him. Glancing
back, I saw him walking smartly down
the street, liis unsteadiness quite discarded.
I wondered how such poor craftsmen got
their reputation for smartness and slipperi-
ness. A little later I knew. My small roll
had gone, yet the only time I had my hand
off it was when he insisted on shaking hands.
*** v *
“Mells”: There is no record of anyone
having yet sprung such words as “movies”
and “talkies” on Judge Curlewis; anyhow,
these preposterous coinages are far too well
established to be shaken _ by ‘ the fiercest
denunciations of any stickler for correct
English. They just come and the public
accepts them; they cease to be slang almost
in a night, simply because of their brevity
and expressiveness. I have an idea that
if these two words had been coined at Oxford
they would have been “movers” and “talk-
ers” in accordance with University custom,
whereas if they had emanated in London
they might have been “moveries” and “talk-
eries.” London held three great exhibitions
in successive years of the ’eighties, known
respectively as the Fisheries, the Healtheries
and the Colinderies —the last word appa-
rently being reckoned more euphonious than
coloneries.
He * * *
“Centurion”: The soldier in the mass is
the most rigid of conservatives. The Duke
of Wellington opposed the abolition of the
fhntlock in favor of the percussion-cap Brown
Bess, and later there was furious resistance
to the introduction of the Enfield and Mihie
rifles. Always the idea was that the new
contraptions would enable the soldier to
waste his ammunition beyond replacement.
The same howl was raised when the Snider
and Martini came, and it rose still louder'
when the magazine Lee-Metford replaced
both, though in the latter case the diehards
saved a bit of their bacon by having the
magazines fixed so that they could only be
loaded cartridge by cartridge. What the
Boers did in 1899-1902 with their clip-loading
Mausers is history written on a lot of tomb-
stones. Now the clip-loading Lee-Enfield is
to be replaced by an automatic rifle, and the
old cry goes up again. The ammunition
was kept up to the thousands of Lewis,
Vickers-Maxim and Hotchkiss guns used by
all arms in the last war. Sometimes it was
done by ’plane, sometimes by tank, sometimes
by good old mule or horse, or even humans
as a last resort ; but there was never any
serious failure. There is no reason to sup-
pose that the automatic rifle will be let
down, either.
APERITIFS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“To many working men beer and rum are condi-
ments.”- —Letter in Brisbane Daily Mail protesting
against the new. taxation.
He uttered a damp and disconsolate groan
As his face in a pot he buried.
And growled through the froth, “Can’t they
leave us alone?
You’d think that they might have jerried.
"There’s nothing that matters as much as
food
To a man working hard,” he blustered ;
“An’ me....we11, me appetite’s none too
good,
And I use it instead of mustard.
“It’s not,” he said, as they filled them again,
“That I booze like a young high-stepper;
A man must have something, that’s plain as
plain,
And I never take salt or pepper.
“Don’t think that I like it” —another pot
On its downward journey trickled —
•'Rut I always reckoned cayenne too hot
And I’m shy of onions, pickled.
“They’re only condiments, rum and beer,
That’s the proper way to view it.
And I wouldn’t mind a bit, old dear,”
He hiccoughed into the barmaid’s ear,
“If they kept ’em in the cruet!”
QUEENSLAND.
HASEN.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic P.isk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etr
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know —from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
TUESDAY—Price 3d
<r
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
&
m
Headquarters
for Hotel Comfort!
Situated on Adelaide’s finest boule-
vard. the Grosvenor provides to its
patrons a “home-from-home.” Fire-
proof, 300 rooms, 100 bathrooms,
spacious lounge, yale lock on every
door. Tariff from £3/10/- weekly.
GROSVENOR
cJtdehddes Finest Ujiiicensed .FoteJ.
Opp. Railway Sin.. North Terrace. ADELAIDE.-
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Five-o’clock Girl”
Royal “The Squeaker”
Criterion “Lombardi, Ltd.”
Palace The Kentucky Singers
Tivoli Vaudeville
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty's “Show Boat”
Royal “Journey’s End”
King’s “Whoopee”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt's.... Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
Without any quibbling qualifications,
“Lombardi, Ltd.,” at the Criterion, a dressy
comedy in three acts with clever thin-ice
dialogue, is the best theatrical offering of
the moment in Sydney, and the best seen
near the H’arborside in many moons. Making
his first bow to Australia in it on Saturday
night, Leo Carrillo, a Californian of Spanish
ancestry, won a remarkable personal triumph.
He was given support of a calibre unfortu-
nately too rare in the Australian theatre, and
it doubtless was responsible for the success
of the show as a whole; but it was his own
brilliant character acting that made such
a success possible. Carrillo possesses an un-
• usually long range of mumming qualities.
Along with a genuine talent for comedy, he
can play pretty tunes on the heart of his
audience with a blarneying pathos. There
in a gentle spirit about his acting altogether.
In his portrayal of Tito Lombardi his
bad temper may be said to be good-humored.
He can be vigorous when the part demands
it, but after any such display he makes an
even retreat that keeps the onlooker per-
fectly in tune with the mood of the stage
character. So many, even among the best of
actors—male and otherwise—make of a part
a mere series of peaks, like a fever patient's
chart.
“Lombardi, Ltd.,” is palpably a woman’s
show, but what theatrical fare other than low
comedy and high drama is not? Tito, lover
of antiques and other rare or beautiful things,
is a fashionable dressmaker, who designs by
inspiration, troubled only by the thought that
this or that lovely thing will be worn by
some fat cart-horse of a woman, and by
the fact that James Hodgkins, his book-
keeper-manager (Leslie Victor), will insist
upon making him look at the books and try
NOEL BOYD, in “The Squeaker” outbreak at Sydney Royal.
to gather from them that allowing customers
very long credit, while making heavy expendi-
ture, is the most truly purple of all royal
roads to bankruptcy. Meanwhile Tito is
taught that Phyllis, his inamorata (Rowena
Ronald) is false. His affections are trans-
ferred to Norah, his assistant (Natalie
Moya), while Daisy (Barbara Luddy), after
learning that to hold down the job of manne-
quin she has not to take off as much as she
thought the position would demand of a girl,
finds her beau in Riccardo Tosello (Brandon
Peters), who she believes is.a chauffeur, and
who turns out to be a millionaire, able to
save Lombardi, Ltd. when that temperamental
firm is being handed over broke to the
receivers. The story is eked out by, among
other things, a paralysing parade of manne-
quins. . Present Showman has only once heard
anything to compare with the heartfelt
“Oooo’s” that rose up at each mannequin
appearance. It was an “Ooo,” also, not so
audible, but just as involuntary. The writer
threw, his hand in immediately, and though
to this day he does not know what that
other fellow held, he is perfectly satisfied that
it would have beaten three fives hollow. There
is no bluff about that sort of a sound.
The setting of the play is its leading
feminine drawcard—the three acts are played
out in Lombardi’s atelier, decked with rich
and romantic materials and ribbons for the
first two acts, and severely empty for the
last. In that setting the acting of Leo
Carrillo dominates three-quarters of the play,
lie holds the first act completely, setting a
pace which resolves itself into the question,
“Surely he can’t keep this up?’’ lie speaks
in broken English, letting his words out like
a machine-gun, his every action accelerated
and yet decisive. He does not keep that
pace up, nor anything quite like it, but
oven in his more subdued mumming he is an
uncommonly fine actor. In the second
and third portions of the play the support
gets its opportunity. Miss B. Luddy is one
who grasps that opportunity with both hands.
She is a charming young lady, certain to win
popularity in Australia. Light comedy is
her forte. She has a trick of repeating words
with a new emphasis each time, and she owns
a speaking voice with a caressing quality
of melody in it. The other newcomer, Miss
Oullen-Landis, makes a good job of a vul-
garian gum-chewing model. Of the other
supporters, Natalie Moya led in “Young
Woodley”; Elma Gibbs has led in “The
Patsy” ; Rowena Ronald was starred by the
late Boucicault (and gives a better perform
ance here than any she ever did with the
Vanbouces), and Brandon Peters was
original lead in “The Patsy.” All these
respond readily to the ,Carrillo lead, and so in
particular do Henrietta Cavendish, as his
loyal forewoman, and Leslie Victor, as the
bookkeeper—two admirable studies of the
moth-eaten but still loyal employee.
* * *
Another satisfying show to burst upon
{Sydney on Saturday was that provided by the
Kentucky Singers, eight melodious darkie
minstrels, at the Palace. Their performance
was fine, anyway, but it would have been con-
siderably better without the effort to carry a
story-theme through
it. In the first
part aged darkies
are discovered in a
misty-night setting
down on the old
plantation. There,
mention of the war
in France comes to
them, and in the
next part they are
all young darkies
in an elaborate
dug-out in the
front line, where
they continue to
sing plantation
songs before going
out to bash the
Boche. The sing-
ing, always very
good, seems to lose
a little in these
acts, owing to the
forced nature of
the situations. In
the third and last
section of the bill
the party is shown
as simply a bunch
of concert-singers,
dinner-jacketed and
gathered about a
piano, and here
their performance
is wholly satisfac-
tory, if not a bit
more so. Not only
have they rich
voices, which they
know how to use—
they are vigorous,
enthusiastic actors.
Every one of them
acts his song, giv-
ing to quaint words
a curious quality,
humorous in such
things as personal
appeal to and conversation with the Deity,
and yet, even when most apparently absurd,
still spiritual in essence.
Victorian musicians thrown out of employ-
ment by the talkies have cast down the gaunt-
let to the moving-picture “industry.” Their
method has the merit of self-respect. It is
better than sending deputations to Ministers
demanding legislation. They have formed the
Victorian Professional Orchestra under Gus-
tave Slapoffski’s baton.
The opening gun of the offensive was fired
at the Auditorium last week. The orchestra
played out on the balcony, to begin with, and
pas'sers-by hastening to listen to the canned
melody at the neighboring picture theatres
looked up startled and wondered what was
this new portent. The programme, besides
bristling with such slogans as “Music Is an
Art —JVlechanised Music is a Menace,” and
with statistics of Australia’s adverse trade
balance with the U.S.A.. included the
Tannhauser March, Raymond Lambert play-
ing the first movement of a Grieg Concerto,
that delightful quartette the Harmonists, and
some verse by
Westralia’s “Dry-
blower” delivered
by monologist Des-
m o n d. Nothing
here to attract the
audiences which
flock to the Ber-
nard Heinze and
Fritz Hart con-
certs. Light dishes
evidently aimed at
drawing away the
movie public.
Whether it will do
so is another ques-
tion.
There was no
question about the
playing. That de-
lightful violinist M.
do Tarzynski was
one of the per-
formers, and the
average of musi-
cianship was natur-
ally higher than it
is in the largely
amateur and im-
mature personnel
of the Melbourne
and University
orchestras. Also,
everybody played
as if his life—and
the subsistence of
his wife and family
—depended on it.
Even the gentle-
man in charge of
the percussion
banged them every
time as if he were
knocking the head
off an infidel. The
present Showman,
who loathes any-
thing mechanical,
from a carburetter
to a tin hare, re-
fuses to prophesy, but he wishes the V.P.O.
every success.
*£•
That old familiar of a former race of play-
goers, “The Man from Toronto,” has returned
to Melbourne Palace, under custody of Leslie
Laurier, Margery Jacoby, Yvonne Banvard,
Douglas Drew, Vera Spaull and others. It
is the most attractive exhibit the Gladys
Moncrieff-Tom Moore organisation has ex-
posed to date. Relieved from the necessity
of beino- futilely horrible as in “The Zepp •im
Terror, or blatantly funny as in “The
Gorilla,” the company displayed a talent for
genuyie light comedy with which this Page
would never have dreamed of crediting it on
the evidence of its previous performances.
Yvonne. Banvard’s Mrs. Calthorpe could
hardly have been better portrayed, nor did
a critic have to apply a local anaesthetic to
his intelligence before he accepted Douglas
Drew as a person likely to inspire the passion
of love in the breast of a widow aching for
a romantic attachment. Also admirably un-
self-conscious was Leslie Laurier as Robert
Gilmore, a young man who succumbs to the
sparrow-like seductions of Vera Spaull as
Ada Winbusli. Anything said against the
producing talent of Charles Road-Night is
taken back as far as the present offering is
concerned.
¥ * *
“Whoopee,” Frank Neil’s first venture into
musioomedy at Melbourne King’s, is an
exceedingly bright and rapid show, blest with
a hefty ballet of personable girls who prance
vigorously in the well-cut habiliments appro-
priate to the musical-comedy equivalent of
Indian squaws. Mary Gannon, beautiful
daughter of the sheriff, nourishes a hopeless
passion for Forrest Yarnall, supposed to have
Red Indian blood in his veins. She sings
about it in a voice that would not qualify
her for front place in a philharmonic choir,
but is quite adequate for the purposes of a
romantic part which is in perpetual danger
of being interrupted by the brisk farce of
Charley Sylber. Another bright interlude is
Genevieve McCormack, a sonsy lass whose
dancing in the first act is likely to create
a steady demand for front-stall tickets for
some weeks to come. There is a rich, if un-
varying. note of love and longing in the
voice of Forrest Yarnall, and altogether the
piece is one that deserves to prosper.
¥ * *
Prof. Bernard Heinze has given Melbourne
small portions of his new Dutch acquisition,
Joy McArden, on previous occasions, but on
Saturday night he threw the whole lady to
the critical wolves at the Town Hall. Madame
sang in eleven different languages but the
same voice, which, fine, broad and large in
volume as it is, is still a trifle lacking i
warmth and a little subdued in color where
pieces demanding those qualities are con-
cerned. She also supplied a prologue in
halting English to her numbers, an innova-
tion not particularly to be desired. “Queen
Dagmar,” a Danish traditional ditty, was
her best performance and “O, Charlie is
My Darling,” a Scotch item, was her worst
indiscretion, but both were equally weli
KONO SAN, the “Japanese nightingale,” now on the Tivoli
circuit.
received. Tenor Kirby and pianist Elsie
Eraser were also on the bill. The impres-
sion gathered was that the concert would
have gone a good deal better if presented in
a drawing-room alongside a cheering fire or
in a small and intimate hall.
* * *
A second inspection of “Journey’s End”
at Melbourne Royal enhances this paper’s
respect for it. Hundreds of Diggers
have seen the piece, and it is a tribute to
the general faithfulness of the picture that
the only alteration the management has felt
itself obliged to make is the substitution of
a helmet for a forage cap on the captured
German’s head. Incidentally, the helmet
obscured the expression on Redge Carey’s
face —amongst the cleverest bits of acting in
the play.
* •¥ *
The Follies, whose good qualities have
been mentioned from Yarratown, are the
principal champions upholding the more
or less everlasting traditions of variety at
Sydney Tiv. just now. Kono San, a neat-
looking Japanese young lady with a voice, is
the other leading figure in the cause. Quito
strong support comes from half a dozen
others on a good bill.
H- H- *
That, melodrama has not nearly lost its
punch is amply demonstrated by the present
success of “Bulldog Drummond 1 ' at Sydney
Lyceum. “The Pusher in the Face,” a sup-
porting Paramount comedy, is a clever bit of
utter absurdity.
The State has music, both canned and un-
canned, the bright ballet and the talkie
“Thunderbolt,” a vigorous crime yarn which
will undergo the third, if not the fourth,
degree in Shadow Shows.
* * *
The gloom that descended upon Sydney
Fullers’ on Saturday, when habitues learned
that Jim Gerald was entering on his last week,
was lifted as soon as the show opened—even
thoughts of the coming rise in the price of
beer fled before the immediate optimism of
James. Both parts of the bill were given
to vaudeville, with Linda Foy, Reg Haw-
thorn, Joan Graham and James G. himself
foremost in a clever ensemble.
* * *
. That very old story. “Alias Jimmy Valen-
tine,” about the first of the U.S. reforming-
crook plays, is being well done by an Ander-
son co. at Adelaide Prince of Wales, with
Tom Sutton as the safe-cracker and Darcy
Kelway and McGown as his two humorous
mates. “Dracula” is about to be uncomfort-
able at the Royal. Giannini has had a great
season at the Town Hall.


‘ / . - ' l
A
*\
fd> economical Transportation
vfgfe
1181
I H
liiiaiMlMßßMl
Y ' '- f
", Hi ■, ~ ; il!/"tti
• aIBBI
BMmHW&S :; ' ■■ ;'V-.H/,' ■ ... "■
.........
'.:v. ■ . . . ...., ~ ■
-
iilillilil MM
■
|g§||§*fe;
■
, - -
vfrsr *
ii:
gsW* : ‘: Jr*..
' ***»" ■
«, s ■
3_
I
jpaHili
my-"
; t-,, ifjij
• ■ • ■■••■■••■■• •'■•*•••
n
w
I—>l,
The Four-door Sedan £298
since the date of its introduction, the
A -' new Chevrolet Six has swept triumph-
antly on to greater and greater heights of
popularity. Value for value and price for
price—buyers have compared it with other
cars in the low-priced field. And the result
has been an overwhelming public preference
—nearly a million Six-cylinder Chevrolets
are on the roads of the world to-day.
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR
And everywhere the enthusiasm is constant-
ly increasing—for the new Chevrolet Six
combines, as does no other car in the world,
the following ten great fundamental factors,
which careful buyers are now demanding
in the cars they buy.
1. 6-cylinder smoothness.
2. 6-cylinder get-away.
3. 6-cylinder speed.
PRICES FROM £2lB
4. 6-cylinder power.
5. Modern safety features.
6. Operating economy.
7. Exceptional riding comfort.
8. Beauty of body lines.
9. Proved dependability.
10. Amazingly low prices.
A demonstration drive will prove that you,
should join the ranks of satisfied Chevrolet owners.
See your Chevrolet dealer to-day.
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER
ē


R°NEie
BUSINESS
EFFICIENCY
METHODS.
British Manufacture
STEEL CABINETS.
FILING SYSTEMS.
VISIBLE CARD
RECORDS.
RONEOTYPE
DUPLICATORS.
ADDRESSING
MACHINES.
ON EXHIBITION AT
21 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY.
I
'
-
■H
■MI
808
■■
64 MARKET STREET, MELBOURNE.
43 CREEK STREET, BRISBANE.
GAWLER PLACE, ADELAIDE.
107 MURRAY STREET, PERTH.
DO YOU WANT TO EARN MORE MONEY?
ė
Men of ability and average education who wish to get out of the rut and enter
a profession where there is a certainty of employment are advised to send for
our Prospectus. Here is one profession where the supply is not equal to the
demand. NOW is the time to begin.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
THE WORLD’S LARGEST COMMERCIAL FORESTRY CO.
SUBSCRIBED SHARE CAPITAL £240,718
SUBSCRIBED BOND CAPITAL £3,400,000
FUNDS LODGED WITH TRUSTEES £380,000
BANKERS—THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND \M> I HEM! VGENTS.
SOLE BROKERS—SMITH, WYLIE AND CO., LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN BRANCHES AT MELROURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE,
PERTH, HOBART AND NEWCASTLE.
NEW ZEALAND BRANCHES—AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON, CHRISTCHURCH AND DUNEDIN.
AND AT 36-38 NEW BROAD STREET, LONDON, E.C.2 : JOHANNESBURG. SOUTH AFRICA;
BOMBAY, INDIA; SINGAPORE; KUALA LUMPUR, FEDERATED MALAY STATES.
INSURE WITH THE
H
Mercantile Mutual
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Company—
Established 1878.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
Agencies in all Suburban and Country Centres.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Ltd.
Net To
Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
May, £ £ £ £
1919.. 787,343 15 p.c. = 302,634 484,709 2,255,280
1920.. 517,664 15 ~ ~ 315,000 202,664 2,457,944
Share premiums, £443,816 .. .. 2,901,760
Transferred from sinking fund, £50,500 2,952,260
1921.. 351,331 15 p.c. = 341,108 10,223 2,962,483
1922.. 103,300 3J „ „ 92,054 11,246 2,973,729
Loss.
1923.. 106,086 Nil 2,867,643
Share premiums, £lBl2 .. .. 2,869,455
Profic.
1924.. 279,339 Nil 279,339 3,148,794
Share premiums, £73,477 .. .. 3,222,271
1925.. 372,307 5 p.e. = 123,614 248,693 3,470,964
1926.. 303,032 10 „ „ 268,771 34,261 3,505,225
1927.. 291,577 10 „ „ 268,771 22,806 3,528,031
1928.. 222,617 10 „ ~ 268,771 3,481,877
1929. . 332,671 10 „ „ 268,771 63,900 3,545,777
Written off old plant, £200,000 .. 3,345,777
Profits include: 1924, £164,314 tax and law costs
recovered; 1925, £64,015 taxation recoveries; 1927,
£11,902 taxation refund.
Apart from the .1925 figure, which bene-
fited by taxation recoveries amounting to
£64,015, last year’s profit was the best since
the post-war rush of foreign competition, and
a flood of local troubles, ate into earnings
and set costs on the up grade. The £332,671
netted was 12.3 p.c. on average capital com-
pared with 8.2, 10.8, 11.2, 15.2 and 11.3 p.c.
back to 1924. The spring (£110,054) was due
mainly to substantial savings in outgo.
The alert management was able to further
reduce the selling price of steel products, and
a better demand followed. The mine
at Broken Hill, which shut down on Sept.
24, 1927, because of the low price for metals,
remained idle throughout the term. But in
January last the flotation plant set in on
the old slime dump, and by the end of May
65,676 tons of residues had been' re-treated
for 9009 tons of lead concentrates (assay,
40.6 p.c. lead, 17.80 z. silver) and 382 tons
of middlings (assay, 30.9 p.c. zinc, 23.6 p.c.
lead and 17.60 z. silver), and that helped.
Incidentally, the oxidised crusts in the dump
have already been twice treated for the
recovery of their sulphide contents.
Sales, etc. (£4.106,214) were £27,307
less than the previous year’s; but the
balance on working account (£795,953)
was £184,251 stronger. That was due largely
to a shrinkage of £108,164 in expenditure on
mining, etc. (£52,081), partly to a drop of
£23,760 in freights, etc. (£23,978) and partly
to a contraction of £26,236 in the amount
spent on fuel, fluxes, etc. (£30,564). In-
terest, divs., etc. (£142.901), turned in
£28,951 less. Of the £938,921 that thus came
into the p. and 1. account most went this way :
1923. ■ 1928. 1929.
Depreciation .. .. £155,304 £284,068 £417,592
Office and other exes... 68,837 73,014 61,854
Debenture interest . . 131,227 98,953 81,094
Income tax .. .. 69,980 45,710
In addition to the normal charge for depre-
ciation (£317,592, up £33,534) the year’s
earnings bore a special charge of £lOO,OOO
on account of the old coke ovens at New-
castle. And to further reduce their book
value £200,000 of reserves were also rubbed
out. The old ovens have become obsolete and
are being replaced by new ones.
At Iron Knob, where the co. gets its iron
ore. an extensive electrification scheme was
completed during the year, and costs can be
expected to benefit Power is transmitted
from Whyalla, on Spencer’s Gulf, where
special facilities for shipping the stone to
Newcastle and elsewhere have been provided.
Also the Whyalla-Iron Knob tramway is
being extended to serve the high-grade depo-
sits on the Iron Barron leases, about 17
miles further south. On account of its high
manganese content the ore has a good market
overseas, and recent low freights have
enabled substantial shipments to be made.
The stone quarried for the twelvemonth
(788,917 tons) was 206,443 tons more than
in the previous year.
Only one of the three blast furnaces was
in continuous operation throughout the term,
and the production of pig-iron (330,803 tons)
fell away 2565 tons. The other units of the
big plant behaved in this way:—
1922. 1928. 1929.
Tons. Tons. Tons.
Open hearth(steel ingots) 219,799 347,288 351,146
Blooms and billets . . 204,551 326,741 332,358
28in. mill . . . . 110,226 212,282 211,684
18in. mill . . . . 67,071 87,308 94,932
12in. and Bin. mills .. 27,333 55,265 61,279
Rod mill . . .. 30,168 76,068 84,289
Fishplates . . . . 3,231 6,938 5,499
Steel foundry . . .. 2,806 12,101 22,913
Direct metal foundry .. 4,737 8,047 5,649
Coke 191,038 311,666 318,000
Because the co. held substantial stocks of
coal, operations to May 31 were not seriously
affected by the trouble on the northern N. S.
Wales field, and, for the most part, there
was an encouraging increase in the outturn.
Also the by-products plant operated continu-
. ously and the output was sold.
The next table shows how the co. has
financed its great iron and steel enterprise:—
Paid All Other
May, Capital. Reserves. Debentures. Liabilities.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 472,402 2,760,181 901,700 801,730
1919.. 2.100,000* 2,256.280* 848,600 742,253
1923.. 2,455,048 2,867,643 1,962,200 598,399
1924.. 2,460,736 3,148,794 1,833,400 674.089
1925.. 2,687,708 3,470,964 1,702,300 675,701
1926.. 2,687,708 3,505,225 1,572,800 717,009
1927.. 2,687,708 3,528,031 1,518,600 903,751
1928.. 2,687,708 3,481,877 1,262,400 784,443
1929.. 2,687,708 3,345,777 1,125,100 1,005,336
* £1,500,000 of reserves capitalised.
Since May, 1922, £984,200 of the debenture
debt has been redeemed. To meet the year’s
outlay on fixed assets and carry an extra
£222,603 of book debts (£848,637) only
£220,893 was tacked on to the amount com-
ing to sundry creditors. Nevertheless the
finances were quite comfortable:—
1924. 1928. 1929.
More or less
liquid assets .. £1,974,555 £2,193,101 £2,415,994
Floating debt .. 674,089 784,443 1,005,336
Surplus .. .. £1,300,466 £1,408,658 £1,410,658
Debentures .. 1,833,400 1,262,400 1,125,100
Excess liabilities £532,934
Liquid surplus .. £146,258 £285,558
Including debentures the improvement in the
net liquid position amounted to £818,492
over the last five years; last year the net
growth was £139,300.
How the co. has employed the funds con-
trolled —£8,163,922 at May 31 last —is seen
in the following comparison:—
Stocks, Book Debts,
Mining Metals In-
Steel Equip- and Steel vestments,
Works. ment, etc, and Stores. Cash, etc.
1915.. £1,283,000 £532,038 £482,545 £350,513
Port Pirie Smelters sold.
1917.. 2,369,600 163,738 778,084 679,942
1920.. 3,974,846 83,388 1,117,306 862,470
1922.. 5,783,800 258,088 742,592 1,026,820
1923.. 5,698,279 249,546 705,135 943,213
1924.. 5,646,651 236,408 681,186 1,293,371
1925.. 5,778,770 225,670 698,517 1,649,309
1926.. 5,723,558 224,744 608,577 1,816,458
1927.. 5,635,715 228,952 706,777 1,995,241
1928.. 5,623,013 363,908 553,275 1,639,826
1929.. 5,243,725 467,797 512,871 1,903,123
In addition, the mine, etc., figures at £36,406.
The drop of £379,288 in the book value of
the steel works reflects the heavy writings
off, already referred to. The two new Wil-
putte coke ovens—only the foundations
thereof had been built at May 31 —are ex-
pected to cost over £1,000,000. The work
at Iron Knob, at the John Darling colliery,
which commenced production during the year,
and at the B.H.P. collieries shows up in an
increase of £103,'889 in mining equipment,
etc. By the time the new ovens are ready
it is expected that the co. will be able to
supply its own coal requirements.
Since the close of accounts it has been
decided to resume operations at the mine
at the Barrier The Block 14 co. is also
to start again. And to keep costs down the
ore from both mines is to be treated at Sul-
phide Corp.’s mill. Another important de-
velopment was the recent registration of
Buttweld Pty., Ltd., with a capital of
£1,000,000. This is the co. which is to make
steel pipes at Newcastle, and in which
Stewart and Lloyd (Glasgow) and the
B.H.P. are interested. Also John Lysaght,
Ltd., and Australian Wire Ropes, Ltd., have
increased their plants. It all looks like a
big lift in B.H.P’s steel output, improved
recoveries from by-products, and, possibly,
further reductions in the selling price of
steel, thus strengthening the foundations of
the business.
How it proposes to finance recent activities
the board does not say. Whispers of an-
other debenture issue are heard. The market
expresses its confidence in the future by pay-
ing 31s. 9d. for the scrip as against 255.
7d. a year back. At the current price the
return is 6.3 p.c. on alO p.c. div. basis. The
backing amounts to 445. lid. per share in
net tangibles, mostly plant of one kind and
another.
Perpetual Trustee Co. (Sydney).
Net Dividends. Written To Re-
June, Profit. (10 p.c.) Off. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1919 .. 20,644 7,500 13,144 149,008
Reserves capitalised, £15,000 . . 134,003
Provident fund, £5OOO .. .. 129.003
1920 .. 20,564 8,753 615 11,196 140,199
Reserves capitalised, £lO,OOO .. 130,199
(12* p.c.)
1921 .. 24,495 12,250 2530 9,715 139.914
1922 .. 24,007 12,500 3141 8,366 148,280
1923 .. 27,468 14,375 3000 10,093 158,373
1924 .. 28.259 15,625 3995 8,639 167,012
1925 .. 30,500 17,500 2500 10,500 177,512
Reserves capitalised, £lO,OOO .. 167,512
1926 .. 31,651 20,000 2209 9,442 176,954
1927 .. -31,972 21,125 2545 8,302 185,256
1928 .. 33,552 21,875 2583 9,094 194,350
1929 .. 39,626 25,000 2000 12,626 206,976
Part of the policy of this, Australia’s
greatest trustee co., is to call more capital
as the business grows, and shareholders were
gratified with a request for ss. per share
(£25,000) on Dec. 11. That advanced paid
capital to £200,000 in 100,000 £lO shares
paid to £2, of which 18s. has been gathered
during the last half-dozen years. In addition
gifts totalling 7s. per share (£35,000) were
handed out during the four years to the
close of accounts in 1925, thus making the
121 p.c. distribution, which has been an
annual event since 1921, sweeter still to old
holders. There is yet another £BOO,OOO, equal
to £8 per share, uncalled, but £5 of that
represents a reserve liability that can only be
asked for in the event of liquidation.
Last year the accounts claim as net profit
£33,695. That was after £5931 had been
added to the ‘‘commissions reserved account,”
raising it to £80,543. This accumulation
represents the unearned portion of corpus
commissions, which range from 1 p.c. to 21
p.c. on the capital value of estates, and for
which credit is taken in the p. and 1. account
as the trusts are wound up. The £2OOO
shown as written off in the table represents
contributions to the fidelity and provident
funds (£lOOO to each). The fidelity fund
(£9OOO at June 30) has been built up
wholly out of earnings and is used in the
business, but the provident fund, which
belongs to the staff, does not figure in the
accounts. Including these contributions and
additions last year’s net earnings sprang
£6074, mounting to 19.8 p.c. on average capi-
tal compared with 19.2, 19.8 and 19.7 p.c.
back to 1926, the year following that in
which the last gift issue (2s. per share)
was made. The £12,626 of the year’s net
earnings that remained in the business—-
£3OOO of it is earmarked for alterations to
the building—lifted the lay-by to £6976 in
excess of paid capital. That is to say, share-
holders’ funds (capitaL and reserves com-
bined) have to earn only 6.2 p.c. to pay
12£ p.c. on capital as it now stands, whereas
last year’s profit was 10.2 p.c. on average
funds as against 9.1 p.c. for the year before.
What the co.’s own funds contribute to
the pool is not disclosed. At June 30
mortgages represented 38.8 p.c. of the
balance-sheet total (£433,082), and premises
26.5 p.c., public securities and fixed deposits
accounting for most of the balance. There
was only £2105 coming to creditors.
The returns from the trust business are
growing nicely, of course. During the last
eight years the volume of trusts on the books
has almost doubled, while gross income has
more than trebled. That and the cost of
managing the expanding business are visible
in the following comparisons:—
Exes.
Gross Ex- p.c. of
Trusts. Income. penses. Income.
1911 ..£8,853,862 £27,895 £16,850. 60.4
1916 .. 12,604,680 37,818 28,328 74.9
1921 .. 18,432,862 77,404 55,261 71.4
1923 .. 21,955,163 90,251 66.673 73.8
1924 .. 23,683,701 95,781 71,078 74.2
1925 .. 25,637,073 101,220 74,774 73.8
1926 .. 26,909,507 107,362 79,846 74.3
1927 . . 29,967,269 115,512 86,509 74.8
1928 .. 34,231,040 127,009 96,343 75.9
1929 .. 36,358,047 138,092 104,397 75.6
Last year more estates were committed to
the co.’s care than in the previous term, but
their aggregate value was less. Also the
value of estates wound up and the amounts
paid in probate were above the average, so
the net addition to the trust funds was
£2.127,007, as against £4,263,771 in the pre-
ceding year. Never before, however, had
the co. received so many notifications of its
appointment as trustee. It all looks very
encouraging for future earnings. Neverthe-
less, we are probably in for a period of lower
property values; this will affect com-
mission earnings, and may affect returns
from the co.’s own funds. But there is
nothing to suggest that the 12£ p.c. to share-
holders is likely to be interfered with.
The share market, attracted by the corpu-
lence of the reserves, the wide margin be-
tween earnings and distributions and the
growth in the trust business, heavily dis-
counts the future by paying £6 for the' scrip.
The immediate return at that price is only
4.1 p.c. on a 12£ p.c. div. basis. The backing
amounts to £4 Is. sd. per share in net
tangibles.
Dennys, Lascelles, Ltd. (Geelong).
June, Profits. Dividends. To Reserves. Deficit.
1919.. 17,146 7 p.e. = 10,500 6646 35,747
1920.. 20,274 7 „ ~ 10,500 9774 25,973
1921.. 11,518 7 „ „ 10,500 1018 24,955
1922.. 15,838 7 „ ~ 10,500 5338 19,617
1923.. 17,841 7 ~ ~ 10,500 7341 12,276
1924.. 15,313 7 „ „ 10,500 4813 7,463
Reserves.
1925.. 21,676 7 „ „ 12.030 9646 2,183
1926.. 18,801 7 ~ .. 14.000 4801 0.981
1927.. 20,390 7 „ „ 14,000 (
Superannuation Fund. £2OOO ) n,<W4
1928.. 25,186 8) p.c. = 16,500 8686 20,060
Net premiums on new shares, £4450.. 24,510
Added Goodwill, £lO,OOO .. .. 14,510
1929.. 32,137 7p.c.= 18,926 ) „„ 791
Taxation Reserve, £4OOO )
Headquarters are at Geelong, and have been
ever since C. J. Dennys founded the business
over 70 years ago to handle West Victorian
wools. When the public became interested
in 1912 there was a branch at Melbourne
and another at Ilopetoun. More recently the
co. has gone deeper into the pastoral finance
business. This and the addition of new
departments have widened the field and quick-
ened the turnover. To hasten its develop-
ment the co. early in the, last term offered
the public 100,000 new £1 shares at 21s. On
the market the old shares were around 235.
6d. immediately prior to the offer, so the
new lot was quickly snapped. It made paid
capital £300,000, and reserves benefited by
£4450 of share premiums. The premiums, by
the way, make a 7 p.c. div. worth 6.6 p.c.
on the new shares.
The money thus got in, and a lot more,
was used mainly to finance clients. Also
further additions were made to freeholds and
plant, and the old-established business of
Young Bros., at Hamilton and elsewhere in
western Vic. was bought. The price paid
has not been disclosed, but £lO,OOO was added
to 'the goodwill item, making it £60,000.
During the year the co. doubled the number
of its branches, which now total 14 and are
scattered from Melbourne to the S. Aus.
border, and north as far as Hay in th»
Riverina.
Thus, with the assistance of a favorable
season, the co.’s wool turnover —it was
47,524 bales in 1926 —grew to 64,546 bales
last year, or 5196 more than in the previous
term. So, despite a drop of 3d. a pound in
the average price of the staple toward the
close of the season, the board was able to
exhibit gross profits £22,822 better than in
the previous year, when there was a change,
in the method of book-keeping. That and
other things arc reflected in this comparison
of p. and 1. figures :—
Gross Profits. Salaries Other
and Commissions, and Wages. Expenses.
1920.. £55,356 £20,245 £14,836
1921.. 45,514 18,917 15,079
1922.. 56.026 23,570 16,618
1923.. 57,731 22,449 17,441
1924.. 58,174 23,709 19,161
1925.. 74,946 27,678 25,592
1926.. 85,710 35,030 31.879
1927.. 92,223 34,685 37,147
1928.. 91,373 36,040 30,147
1929.. 114,195 43,364 38,694
The year’s exes, took £15,871 of the improve-
ment in gross profits, hence the net result
benefited by £6951. It was 11.8 p.c. on aver-
age capital as against 12.6, 10.2, 9.4, 15.0
and 10.2 p.c. back to 1924. Owing to the
unfavorable outlook for the current year,
says the board, the 3d. bonus which went
out with the final div. in 1.928 was not re-
peated, so the distribution to shareholders
fell back to the familiar 7 p.c. again. After
setting aside £4OOO for taxation—hitherto
each year’s earnings have been charged with
the previous year’s assessment —the £9211 of
last year’s declared profit that remained in
the business lifted visible savings to £23,721
in excess of goodwill, which is not treated
as an asset herein. Although the margin
between earnings and distributions is com-
fortable, with such a slender buttress for
capital much obviously depends upon the pro-
vision for contingencies, etc. On this point
the chairman gives his assurance that all
debts considered doubtful have been written
off, and that ample provision has been made
for possible bad and doubtful debts.
The year’s activities, and the lines along
which the business is being developed, are
visible in this comparison of balance-sheet-
figures:—
1921. 1923. 1927. 1928. 1929.
Capital . . 150,000 150,000 200,000 300,000
Liabilities 109,006 88,618 161,401 229,591 320,740
Property and
plant .. 82,197 87,002 105,295 119,111 158,350
Stock . . 4,682 3,309 10,620 11,256 10,568
Book debts 148,008 137,357 260,375 328,952 488,584
Cash, etc. 4,474 3,923 5,485 1,832 3,409
During the year £159,632 was added to tin
book value of advances, etc., and £39,239
more was spent than was written off on pre-
mises and plant. To do all this the board
went outside for an extra £91,149, raising
the debt to £320,740. But the new capital
and surplus earnings strengthened the
finances, and the more or less liquid surplus
(£180,821, including stocks) wrns £69.119
better than at the previous balance. The
debt is made up of £153,380 (up £32,980)
on overdraft, £159,910 (up £58,169) coming
to sundry creditors and a mortgage of £7450
(unchanged). Thus there was 19s. lOd. of
outside money at risk in the business for
every £1 of tangible assets belonging to share-
holders.
Early next year the store space is to be
further increased, and small and unevenly
classed lots are to be regraded. Prospects
for the current term are that the clip will
be lighter and prices easier, and that, of
course, will affect commission earnings. The
share market sums up the position by paying
225. lOd. for the pound shares, which have
a visible backing of 2,15. 7d. in net tangibles.
The return at that price is 6.1 p.c. on a
7 p.c. div. basis.
Automobile and General Finance.
The latest accounts of this Sydney t.-p. and
general finance co. cover 15 months’ operations
to .Tune 30 last. During that period radical
changes have been made in the business.
For the two years to March, 1928, a deficit
of £72,520 had accumulated—£46,ool of it
represented share-selling exes., and most of
the balance bad debts. These had been
insured against, but since the conditions of
the policy had not been strictly carried out
the insurance co. refused to pay. Then,


■
■ 11
£i : ■
H
m
m
m
.
an a
fi.:'
: ■;
:'.-v
■
: S
■ I
I
m
: m a m
yr
I
r
m
u ■
■ B)
■Sii
:
■
& m
w
Ml,/
\if «
//
■
■
r fin-'
W
If in
Si 1
? <*■"
Lunch
&
WTHEN Springtime entices you out o’ doors,
■ there’s a measure of pleasure in the picnic
lunch that’s enjoyed at a halt by the roadside.
The fresh Spring air breeds an appetite and the
a healthy thirst, so be sure to pack
with the sandwiches a bottle or two of K.B. Lager.
Mild as it is, and so completely refreshing, it is
the indispensable beverage for the outdoor lunch.
T n
'
p,\m Jh
, T#
> / yJ
BREWED AND BOTTLED BY TOOTH 8C CO. LIMITED, KENT
- 4 yf
BREWERY, SYDNEY.


The “Explosives” House
Explosives and Accessories of All Kinds
Supplied at Lowest Prices.
Manufacturers of
RENDROCK,
The Safest, Cheapest and Most Effective High Explosive Known.
Can be forwarded by Rail or Steamer at ordinary rates of freight.
Blasting Machines, Steel Rock Drills.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney
More Burdens
to Carry
Many concerns are falling by
the way, broken by high costs
and oppressive taxes.
Here's a big co. that will
not pay even its unsecured
creditors 5/- in the £. The
prei. shareholders will lose
every penny.
Are you a shareholder? Have
you an insurance policy? Do
companies owe you money ?
Don’t lose your capital. Keep
yourself informed.
Th e leading Australian
authority on all these matters
“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY.”
SEPT. NUMBER ON SALE SATURDAY
SINGLE COPS', 2/-; PER ANNUM,
22/6. From Newsagents, or Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * $
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues .Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.— Advt.
# * * *
A pipe line that is absolutely non-corrosive incurs
very little upkeep expense and maintains absolute
purity of its liquid content. Pioneer Wood Pipe
cannot corrode—its flow never chokes nor lessens—in
fact it increases with use. Many important instal-
lations of Pioneer Wood Pipe bear testimony to
the efficiency of this conduit. It is very much
cheaper than metal pipe—it is extremely 'durable
light, easily laid, and is unaffected by frost, heat or
electrolysis. An interesting data book will be sent
post free to those interested on application to The
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road
(near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.: and at
Footseray, Victoria.— Advt.
* * *
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.—Norman Hill & Co.
Ltd., Cathcart House, Sydney, Rep. largest American
and European Smelters. Buyers Dirty Tin Ores.
Copper, Lead, Gold, Silver, Antimony, Wolfram
Seheelite, Tantalite, Molybdenite, and other ores and
concentrates. Properties examined and reported on.
—Advt.
* * * *
Patents.— Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent. Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
*i ; *!* >|: ;j.
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES. I
ę
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Hadfields
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS—DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
tladlields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and l Alexandria, Svdney, N.S.W.
Foundries i Bassendean, Perth, W.A.
Branch l 422 Collins Street. Melbourne. Vic.
Office J T. & G. Building, Brisbane. G.
thoroughly dissatisfied with the state ot
affairs, shareholders changed the control;
and the new board immediately set to work
to tidy up the position.
In September, 1928, 4s. per share was
struck off paid capital, which at the pre-
vious balance was £198,087 in 412,570 £1
shares called to 10s.—there was £7658 of
calls unpaid. The cut wiped out the deficit,
and, including profits on forfeited shares,
provided an additional £14,821 as a reserve
against possible bad debts. This made the
total so set aside £19,315 at Dec. 1 last,
the date to which interim accounts were
prepared. The auditors were then of opinion
that the reserve should prove adequate
against losses that might arise on old busi-
ness.
Commission earnings for the 15 months
to June 30 were £16,674 as against £15,231
for the previous 12 months, or, proportion-
ately, only £1892 less. Exes., including inter-
est, were £2163 lower at £6749, and that is
satisfactory. Bad debts written off amounted
to £307 as against £40,714 in the previous
term. Thus, after setting aside £1974 for
taxation, the net result was a profit of £7644
A dividend of 6 p.c. has been declared, which
will absorb £7043, leaving only £6Ol to be
carried forward. In the circumstances the
distribution is generous, but the directors, no
doubt, have been influenced by the fact that
shareholders, in addition to losing part of
their capital, lia-ve not had a div. since the
co. was formed about 34 years ago.
This comparison of balance-sheet figures
shows the changes that have taken place:—
March, March, Dec., June,
1927. 1928. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital.. £138,120 £198,348 £116,783 £117,383
Overdraft .. 28,672 9,756 370 6 575
Creditors .. 1,115 2,213 896 704
Book debts .. 141,037 148,324 136,587 148,171
Fittings, etc... 303 457 442 863
Cash, etc. .. 627 14 8,097 7,027
Foreclosures.. 4,298 4,499 4,333
Definite progress appears to have been
made during the eight months to the close
of last accounts. To add £11,584 to book
debts the board went to its bankers for an
extra £6205; but the outside debt (£7279)
was not heavy, and all but £252 of it was
covered by cash, etc. Since Dec. the issue,
or rc-issue, of 1000 shares added £6OO to
paid capital, making it £117,383 in 391,270
shares of 10s. each.
As to the future the directors say they
are confident of better results. Continued
progress will, or course, largely depend upon
the soundness of book debts and the
adequacy or otherwise of the allowance for
contingencies. _ Competition is keen, and
likely to remain so. Until more of a buttress
is provided for capital the position is not
likely to become attractive.
The Life Insurance Bill.
Under existing conditions life insurance in
Australia is controlled by half a dozen widely
vaiying Btate laws, none of which give the
policy-holder the protection he deserves. A
bill, long overdue, and now before the Senate,
aims to correct this. Inspired by recent Bri-
tish legislation, it contains some excellent
pi ovisions, and also some that savor of
undue interference in domestic affairs.
To begin with, a registrar, who must be an
actuary, is to be appointed, and he will have
very wide and very arbitrary powers. Then
all the existing insurance companies in Aus-
,aie to apply for and be given a license.
Lhis license is liable to be cancelled and the
co. wound up if the registrar finds it (a) is
unable to meet its obligations, (b) fails to
comply with the Act, (c) has resorted to cor-
rupt practice in business, or (d) has been
guilty of malversation of its funds. The
idea, of course, is to cut short the career
of any concern found to be unmistakably
heading for the rocks before all its policy-'
holders’ money has been lost. A co. may,
however, be given five years’ grace to put its
house in order.
°?9 of the most satisfactory features of
the bill is a provision for the establishment
and maintenance of statutory funds—one for
Ordinary and another for Industrial business.
The purpose of these funds is to cover the
liabilities under policies, and, with minor
exceptions, the assets in which the money is
invested are not to be made subject to any
prior charge. Also these funds are not to
be used to buy shares or an interest in any
insurance business. Moreover, if the aggre-
gate balance-sheet value of a co.’s assets
after deducting intangibles and all debts due
by the co. other than debentures and loans,
is less than the figure at which the funds
stand, then the amount of the funds is to be
reduced by the amount of the deficiency.
Ihe Wild Cat” has always treated the
figures of insurance cos. on that basis.
With the window thus undressed both
poiicy-nolclers and shareholder's can more
plainly see exactly what is there. Amongst
other things the aim is to prevent manipu-
lation of assets, and so preserve, as far as
possible, the full interest of policy-holders in
any statutory fund, irrespective of what
might happen to other funds. If the directors
or management cause the statutory funds or
any part of them to be used for an unauthor-
ised purpose they are liable to be called upon
to pay tlie amount involved. Some of the
younger cos. have made their life fund
correspond with the liability under policies
by pumping hot air into the" assets, usually
under the disguise of “establishment
account.”
Provision has been made for a policy-
holder who desires to discontinue further
premium payments to receive a paid-up policy
equal in amount to the surrender value of the
old one, provided it has been in force for at
least three years in the Ordinary or five
years in the Industrial branch. The sur-
render value is fixed at 75 p.c. of the reserve
value of the policy. Also the principle of
deferred forfeiture, which has been a prac-
tice amongst all the best-managed offices for
many years, is now made binding on all.
This is especially satisfactory in respect of
Industrial policies.
Section 59 of the bill is unnecessarily
harsh on the cos., and may cause trouble in
its present form. It provides for the refund
of any premium paid if within 21 days after
delivery of the policy the owner lodges an
objection to any of its terms. The terms
of policies, proposals and other documents
to be used by cos. must be approved by the
registrar, and this should mean protection
against any unfair provisions. And since
new business is inevitably costly to get the
effect of the present requirements of the sec-
tion will probably be to further increase costs,
thus penalising existing policy-holders.
There is a serious omission in the first
schedule of the bill. This sets out the form
in which the revenue account is to be pre-
pared, but does not separate first and re-
newal premiums. If accounts are published
in the form prescribed they will provide no
means of ascertaining the cost of putting
new business oh the books. This is one of
the most important tests that can be applied
to an insurance co’s figure; it is absolutely
vital in the case of concerns whose stability
may be in doubt.
As regards new floats, prospectuses will
have to be approved by the registrar before
subscriptions for shares are invited. Also
the promoter of a co. who accepts any office
of profit in that co., or receives any pecuni-
ary advantage not specified in the prospec-
tus, wiU be guilty of an offence.
Of course the Act will not remedy the mis-
chief that has been done in the past, but it
does provide some reasonable safeguards in
respect of the future. Hitherto a promoter
could rely upon collecting premiums for
years before claims began to come in in large
numbers, and he knew that during this
period he could spend freely without super-
vision or fear of outside interference. Then,
when difficulties became acute, the real posi-
tion was sometimes temporarily obscured by
amalgamation. The bill provides that all
these matters are to be watched by the
registrar in the public interest.
Other conditions relating to the lapsing,
surrendering, forfeiting, substituting and
transfer of policies and in respect of proof
of age may or may not prove to be trouble-
some and expensive to the cos. That the
(government sought and was freely given
advice from the leading representatives of
the big mutual and proprietary offices here,
and then adopted less than 10 p.c. of their
suggestions, is not wholly encouraging. In
any case, much will depend upon the com-
monsense and business ability of the regis-
trar. &
Mt. Isa.
Isa has not loitered along the road since
its big programme of mine development and
equipment was inaugurated a year or so ago.
So far some 25,000,000 tons of commercial
grade ore has been proved, and that figure
will look small, compared with what another
couple of years drilling and development will
reveal, says Leslie Urquhart, who has
y b ee u °n the spot—he is chairman of
Mining Trust, Ltd., which holds a three-
\ llterest or more in Isa. Shaft sink-
and and the or ? ction of the mill
generating plant are all
up to schedule The Rifle Creek dam is com-
Fnbt 2 °i mi A es of pipes are bei ng
hud to the works. A year hence the manage-
-2000 tons S
per day. The capital cost of bringing the
pioperty to this stage will exceed £2,000,000.
The next stage of the programme, which wifi
ment d nf 31 atl F n ° f the , zinc plan t, enlarge-
of the water supply, and of the mill
and smelter capacity to 5000 tons per day is
£L(W(M>. t 0 CaU f ° r at least another
The metallurgical pilot plant is said to
have demonstrated beyond doubt the reliabil-
ity of recovery figures on which estimates
were based. These were 91 p.c. lead froS the
carbonates, 87 p.c. lead and 66 p.c. zinc from
the sulphides. Profits, therefore, will mainlv
depend upon costs. The results from pilot
d^t e th a e nd - St -° pes ’ Mr * Urquhart says, ?sug-
gest that mining costs will be commensurate
with the lowest obtained in the largest and
America. t<>date 110n ' ferr0Us meta l mines in
Auatr ? 1 ’ a recent addition to the
list of New Guinea holding cos., has taken
a three months’ option, with the right to
three months extension on payment of £lOOO,
over 350 acres on the upper Koranga Creek.
These leases were lirst located and worked
by L. Joubert and Frank Pryke. Guinea
Austral’s engineer, R. A. Cilento, estimates
there are 43(3,900 c.y. of ss. 9d. wash avail-
able. The vendors, who worked with shovel
and box for a while, are now operating with
a sluicing nozzle. It is primarily a sluicing
proposition. Estimates are to be checked by
E. G. Clark, who is on his way to the field.
The purchase price is £21,000 cash, and
10,000 shares in any co. formed to work
the property.
* * # *
Guinea Gold, the first eo. on the New
Guinea goldfields to take oft' its coat, is dis-
tributing 10,000 of the 10,100 pound shares
in Guinea Airways, Ltd., one for five. It
also announces the exercise of the option
taken over its Bulolo properties by Ellyou
Development Corporation. Those on the
register are to get 90,000 shares, nine for
five, in New Guinea Goldfields, Ltd., which
is absorbing Ellyou. Guinea Gold has
ceased operations on the property and is on
the hunt for fresh areas. Also it is most
likely that Placer Development will exercise
its option over Guinea Gold’s leases on the
lower Bulolo. The terms are £50,000 cash
and 10 p.c. of shares in any co. formed to
work the leases.
* $ *js
A company is to be formed to work two
shafts along the Phoenix and Nuggety reefs
at Rushwortli (Vic.). The leases are on
Crown land, so nothing is to be paid for
rights or privileges. Water will be one of
the main problems. At the start some inten-
sive prospecting is to be undertaken. To
do this and buy plant the public is asked for
£3500 and the Government for a subsidy of
a similar amount. Coyle, M.L.A., who lives
in Rusliworth, is endeavoring to make the
project gee.
* * * *
Gt. Boulder Prop, (capital £175,000)
treats an average of 8000 tons a mouth for
a return of £25,000 and a profit of about
£2OOO. It paid its last div. ip 1924. South
Kalgurli (capital £150,0001 deals with a
similar tonnage in the same time for £10,500
and a profit of under £3OOO. It has paid
regular divs. of 25 p.c. p.a. for years. Gt.
Boulder has been spending big slices of its
earnings in sampling and working shows
mostly outside Australia. It is largely be-
cause of this that shareholders have gone
hungry for the last five years. However, of
these shows, Carman Valley in Colombia,
S. America, is expected to turn out trumps,
and the resumption of divs. on a small scale
before the end of the current year has been
hinted at.
* * * *
It is a long time since Phin Soon—which
has been born again as New Pliin Soon—
lias made a noise that sounded like work.
The last recovery from the old company was
in October, 1928, when 22,875 yards were
turned over for 24.75 tong t. 0., an average
of 2.411 b. per yard. But costs were 2s. Bd.
a yard, and that pretty well wiped out profit.
The mine is at present being worked by
Chinese tributors. Last month they recov-
ered 21.4 tons of t.o. from an unstated yard-
age. It was worth £477 to the co. When
it clears up its domestic troubles more should
be heard of the proposition.
* * * *
Huey Yot, the Australian-Siamese tin
dredging* co. which astonished its numerous
Australian shareholders' last April by giving
them four days’ notice of a meeting in Pen-
ang to consider the sale of the mine, an-
nounces that the Universal Engineering and
Development Co. has been nominated by
Mines Selection Trust as the purchaser. The
price is £166,000 cash and a three-months’
option has been granted. Liabilities not
exceeding £23,000 are to be taken over by
the purchaser. Settlement is to be made
within two months of the exercise of the
option. Huey Yot’s paid capital is £140,000
in 70,000 ords. and 70,000 12 p.c. prefs.
The co. was formed in 1924. and recon-
structed on a sterling basis the following
year. It is interesting to note that since
April last, when the sale was first promul-
gated, the average return per yard dropped
to .571 b; for the 12 months previous, the
average was 1.201 b.
* * * *
Malayan Tin returns for August are not
exceptional for the most part, though one or
two plants have recorded high recoveries.
Changkat, Alluvial Tin’s money-spinner,
ended up a splendid run with 120 tons from
130,000 yards, an average of 2.061 b. The co.
recorded almost similar figures for the same
month of last year. There are not many of
the big mines in Malaya nowadays able to
show over 21b. for a high yardage. An
interesting newcomer to the Alluvial group of
producers is Kampong Lanjut, promoted in
March, 1926. In its preliminary dig of
86,000 yards it got 20 tons, an average of
.521 b. Boring estimates by Malcolm New-
man were that the area held 71,000.000 yards
of 31b. ground, so improvement can be looked
for when the big plant gets fairly opened
out. Kundang improved on the previous
month, the recovery rising from 16 to 26 tons,
and the average from .621 b. to .641 b. The
figures are still below the 30 tons per month
estimated as this mice’s minimum. Kampar
Tin Fields’ dredges had another big turnover,
collecting 120 tons of t.o. from 575,000 yards,
an average of .401 b.—a trifle better than for
the previous month. Rawang maintained its
form with 50 tons from 200,000 yards, the
average rising from .511 b. to .561 b. Kampar
scored lowest costs at 3.21 d. per c.y. Rawang’s
figures were 5.04 d., Changkat’s 5.81 d., and
Ivundang’s 5.91 d. Kampong Lanjut came out
at 5.20 d., which is pretty good going for a
first.run._ Rawang Concessions, which began
digging in July, recorded a turnover of
104,000 yards for 65 tons of t. 0.; average
1.401 b.—a really good start for a new hand.
Costs were 4.84 d.
Takuapa, with two dredges now running,
cleaned up 111 tons from 320,000, averaging
•771 b., both turnover and recovery being
higher than for a long time past. Another
good recovery came from Ratrut Basin No. 1.
which followed up the previous month’s aver-
age of 2.161 b. from 55,000 tons with 1.961 b.
from 50,000 yards—97 tons for the two
months ; No. 2 dredge recovered just under
40 tons in the same time.


V \x\ \\ ,
\\\,.\v \\
\\v
nrW
£gi§§s
1
B x
n
'X;
460
IT
%
%
/ /
PURCHASED 'cmmim
UNNECESSARILY IMPORTED
BODIES DURING THE PAST
(O MONTHS.
WE state positively that bodies built in Australia
by Holden’s are superior to those imported.
We know that there are other Australian bodies which
do not possess features proved to be essential to
Australian conditions. Holden bodies do combine
these necessary features —we stand solidly behind that
statement.
Prove this by comparing Holden Body equipped cars
of to-day with any others in their price range. Your
decision must be in favor of the Holden body car.
If all bodies needlessly imported annually were
produced in Australia , regular employment would
be provided for an additional 2000 workmen .
The following makes of cars have Holden “World Quality” Bodies
AUSTIN, 7 h.p.
AUSTIN, 16 h.p.
BUICK
CHEVROLET
CHRYSLER
(Plymouth)
CHRYSLER
DE SOTO
MARQUETTE
MORRIS COWLEY
MORRIS MINOR
OAKLAND
OLDSMOBILE
OVERLAND
PONTIAC
STANDARD
VAUXHALL
WILLYS-KNIGHT
v*o*'*&
HOLDEN’S MOTOR BODY BUILDERS LTD., WOODVILLE (S.A.), MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, BRISBANE


r
‘ -
fc-'rl
•*
5 When you want ice-cream for
dinner, set the New Control and be
certain it will be frozen in time.
k a -
p. i
m 3
0 Even when guests place a
heavy demand on ice cubes you can
always be sure of plenty with
“Cold Control.”
1 Every New Frigidaire house-
hold model is now equipped with
the new “Cold Control.”
4 No longer is there any danger
of running out of ice cubes.
m
>9L
m
3 Frozen dainties, never possible
before, are now made quickly and
easily.
'
2 Iced drinks and frozen desserts
are easy now.
Only FRIGIDAIRE, has
“Cold Control”
64 OLD CONTROL” is a special feature of New Frigidaire and only New Frigid-
aire has it.
By the mere moving of a little lever, “Cold Control” enables you to increase
the speed of freezing and so produces cubes of ice, ice-cream and similar frozen
dainties in a much shorter time.
Of course New Frigidaire requires not the slightest attention or adjustment when
doing its usual work of keeping food fresh, appetising and safe at a constant cold
temperature; you only set the “Cold Control” when you need faster freezing—when,
for instance, guests are coming earlier than expected and you want to hurry up the frozen
desserts and have a bigger supply of ice.
LMmuii
mwmsmmmm
liHTTfr
iIMiIMK
The baby of the Frigidaire family—Model
D 4 —is of particular interest, and sells at the
lowest price in Frigidaire history.
We shall be glad to forward you illus-
trated booklet B, of New Frigidaire and
“Cold Control,” on receipt of your name and
address; also full particulars of the very
generous terms which bring New Frigidaire
within the reach of those with only quite
modest incomes.
If you are in Sydney, do not fail to inspect
New Frigidaire models at our recently
opened showrooms 136 Pitt Street,
opposite Prouds.
DISTRIBUTORS:
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
136 Pitt. Street, Sydney.
307-15 Kent Street, Sydney.
380-82 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
233-35 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, Ltd.,
172-74 Pulteney Street, Adelaide.
STEWART & MACLEAN PTY., LTD.,
104 George Street, Launceston.
0
Alone Has
0
“COLD CONTROL’*
Product of General Motors


PEAPES
Clothe men AND their sons.
A note of reminder that the
Spring Race Meeting approaches
and that orders for suits to
measure should be placed as
soon as possible.
PEAPES now display a selec-
tion of new suitings specially
adapted to distinguished race
wear.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
2^
THE GREYS
SIZEoTWO
SILKCUT VIRGINIA.
DRAP
LONDON
EYS
1® for CIGARETTES 2® for 1/®
They Satisfy
because they are made from 100
per cent, pure Virginia tobacco,
thoroughly matured. “Greys”
have a reputation they cannot
afford to lose; they are therefore
consistent in their perfect quality.
“Greys” protect your palate and
leave no after taste. Let your
next smoke be a “GREYS.”
Of course you
know “Greys
Heavyweights”
are now 1/- for
10; 2/- for 20.
52 MacleaySt.
Limited
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT
(Located within the City Boundary, seven
minutes from G.P.0 .)
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 150 Rooms, is now open and
features Two-, Three- and Four-
room Suites, each with Bath; also
Single and Double Rooms. Central
Heating, Running Water and
’Phones installed in each room.
Unsurpassed Harbor Views.
Weekly inclusive tariff,
from £5/5/-
Daily, from 1 . £1
Telephone: F 2161 (8 lines) ; Tele-
graphic address: “Fifmac,” Syd-
ney.
A BORIGIN
ALITIES
“Bad Australian”: Bill Thompson took
up a selection about 30 miles further west
than. his old mate Jim Williams, and when
Bill made his periodical trip to the pub and
store that constituted Brolga Siding he
always used Jim’s place as a half-way house.
As Bill rarely left home before sundown, he
generally arrived about midnight or in the
early hours of the morning. If Jim happened
to be up, the pair had a smoke and yarn
QUITE EASILY EXPLAINED.
MISSUS: “Yesterday this flour-bag was nearly half-full! Where has it gone?"
MARY: “Mine thinkit, missus, that flour-bag leak.”
before turning in, but if Bill found his friend
in bed he shed his duds' as quietly as pos-
sible and sneaked in alongside him. As
luck would have it, just when Bill was due
for another visit to the siding, Jim lent his
shank to a honeymooning couple who had fled
from the madding crowd at Burnt Creek
to enjoy a period of unihterrupted connubial
felicity. The happy couple were comfortably
installed when Bill arrived; finding the
place in darkness, he peeled off as noise-
lessly as a mouse, and was just settling him-
self comfortably in his usual place when.
Bill is still 'hazy as to what actually hap-
pened, but he reckons that, at the very
least, the roof must have fallen on him.
* * * *
“Pick” ; Twenty or thirty black porpoises
with a snow-white leader police the channel
between Montague Island and the mainland
of the N.S.W. South Coast watching for fish
migrating northward. When schools of sal-
mon or mackerel attempt n passage of the
strait the porpoises, led by their white cap-
tain, wheel out from the lee of the island
and shepherd the travellers inshore until
they have reached the Wagonga estuary.
Some of the sea dingoes then head off the
school, while others guard the rear and pre-
vent the prey from escaping seaward. Wildly
circling, and with many a desperate scurry
to i break away, the victims arc- gradually
wedged into the river’s mouth. Some tear
their way upstream, and many are stranded
on the sands, while the marauders rush
among them, mercilessly chopping with then-
long, serrated jaws. It is only for the joy
of killing. Few of the victims are eaten,
but mangled hundreds are left for the sharks
and sea birds.
Hi * _ ♦ *
“Bad Australian” : What bird was Gover-
nor Phillip referring to when he advised Lord
Sydney in his first despatch that “a bird
as large as an ostrich was killed when I
was at Broken Bay” ? He explained that
“it differs from the ostrich and the emu.
Several have been seen, but they are very
shy, and much swifter than the greyhounds.”
The only native bird I know that comes any-
where near the emu in size is the brolga, but
it is more addicted to slow flying than to swift
running. And it is unlikely that the brolga,
which frequents open plains and very lightly-
timbered country, would be found about
Broken Bay.
* * * *
“Sinew”: I am venturing that Queens-
land has never known a greater ’roo hunter
than Henry Brgcker, who was about with
his gun in 1879. At Warroo, when 8088
’roos were knocked over, he scored 656 with
1000 cartridges. Bracker was bumping ’em
off before the deadly .303 made its appear-
ance as a ’roo gun.
t- * * *
“Boronia”: Detonators are erratic little
devils. Apart from a spark, it is not certain
what will explode them. A while ago two
Westralian boys discovered a box of them
under a log where clearing was in progress.
Ignorant of their danger, they started to
pick out the fulminate of mercury with
wire nails. They actually cleaned out four
without mishap ; the fifth one objected and
ruined an eye and several fingers.
“TVICE, ABRAHAMS!"
ABRAHAMS: “Did you get my cheque all right, Mr. Bernstein?”
MR. BERNSTEIN : “Tvice, Abrahams—vance from you and vonce from the bank."
“John E.”: A collection of snake yarns, all
authentic! Professor McCoy once put a
mouse into a box with a tiger-snake, intend-
ing that the snake should, of course, eat the
mouse. Next morning he found the snake
dead, with a hole eaten in the
back of its neck. Some years
ago, near Mt. Wilson (N.S.W.
Blue Mountains), Government
Surveyor Scrivener found a
tiger-snake enjoying a sun-bath
balanced on the topmost wire of
an ordinary fence. It lay along
the wire, the folds of the body
nicely adjusted on each side to
maintain the delicate balance.
Mr. Scrivener did not. permit his
admiration of its skill to over-
come his hatred of tiger-snakes,
however. An expedition was
engaged in exploring the moun-
tains of New Guinea. The
nature of the country only
allowed the party, which was
30 or 40 strong, to march in
Indian file along a native foot-
path. Seeing a sudden dis-
turbance in the rear, a halt was
called, and the cause was found
to be a death-adder. A bare-
footed native carrier had seen
it lying in the path just in time
to avoid stepping on it. Every
man before him had stepped
over it. The footprint of the
officer who had led the file was
stamped in the day < but two
inches from the adder’s head.
* * *
“Werrimee”: I was camped
under a big water-gum,” said
Lanky, “an’ just after daylight
1 w-akes up shiverin’. The bit
o’ blanket I’d snoozled under
was gone. ‘Well,’ I says to me-
self, ‘that’s the meanest one that’s
been served out to me yet’—
thinkin’ some thief ’ad lifted it
off me an’ done a get. Then I
’appened to look up, an’ I sees
it liangin’ out over the side of a red ’possum's
nest. 1 knew red possums make nests like
a bird’s, and carry the material aloft, but
they’d never shook my nap before.”
* * * *
“Ourlamo’’: I did not say that Moonee
Ponds (Yic.) was one of the very few
suburbs in Australia given abo. names (B.
14/8/’29). I said it was one of the very
few places bearing the name of one particu-
lar abo. Toorak, as spelt, is not native, but
a corruption of Tourac, the original name.
It has a French flavor, as also has Mordial-
loc. Prah.ran, like Toorak, is a corruption
of an abo. name. Binghi called the district
Pur-raran, but Hoddle converted it into
Prahran.
* * *
“Murrungurry”: Cobra, which “1.D.”
states is the abo. for “head” in the Monaro
and Hunter River districts (B. 14/8/’29),
has the same meaning on the Richmond and
Clarence rivers, where cobra-bald, a mixture
of abo. and English, was also commonly used
by both blacks and whites when I was a
boy. An almost identical word, cobbera, is
the name of the long white worm found in
submerged logs; whilst cobbi, or cubbi, is
the name of one of the two species of
native (stingless) bees on the Richmond.
Cobra seems to have a wide range, for a
native name of a point in Middle Harbor
(Sydney) is Warringah Cobra —greyhead.
Middle Head is Cubba Cubba, or Cobra
Cobra.
* * * ,*
“Animbra” (Newcastle Waters) : “Bad
Australian’s” swaggies (B. l/5/’29) who had
snake and goanna in their nosebags were
in clover compared with one I met recently.
He was 90 miles from anywhere, 11 miles
from water, and none in his bag. All
he carried was a “cigarette” swag, a frying-
pan, a book on engine-driving and a tin
of baking-powder! He had neither flour,
tea, sugar, beef, tobacco nor matches, Scrip
is down when one hasn’t bare necessities in
the Territory. Although, he was very grate-
ful for the food given him, he reckoned he
could have got through without it.
*!* ■!■
“W.A.F.” : I was speaking to my gloomiest
friend the other day, and as usual he was
able to find the inky lining to every cloud.
I tried to cheer him up with the remark,
“At all events, you never have a drought up
here.” “No,” he groaned, “and the bloom-
ing rabbits know it, too!” I gave him up.
* * * a:
“Pomegranate”: It is one of the quaint
conceits of the Outback that chaff-cutting is
not work. You work from dawn till sunset;
the light having failed, you take tea; then,
with the aid of a hurricane lantern, you
cut chaff by hand! This was my experience
on two selections. The chaff-cutting was a
sort of evening relaxation, a festival in
which Mum and the children joined. Per-
haps the idea was that with women and
infants as colleagues, a man and his hired
help could not burst their boilers, where-
fore the exercise ceased to be real toil and
pleasure could be its only name.
(Continued on page 25.)
TRUCKIN’.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You’ve gotter keep your tally up it s no
use gettin’ slack. , , . .
The saws are flashin’ out an’ out an dronin ,
dronin’ back, . , ~ , ~
The piles of staves are mountin high, the
logs are cornin’ fast;
So grip the rope an’ let her go, though this
may be your last.
Gratin’ wheels an’ grindin’ brakes
Whirlin’ down a pinch;
Seven hundred feet to fall
If she slips an’ inch.
Steady on that tricky turn,
Grit your teeth — don’t flinch.
Four fifteen to risk your neck twenty times
a day;
Four fifteen to hang to life as they bump an’
sway.
Best forget what men call funk—mustn’t
show it here.
Keep your mind upon your load —an’ every-
thing but fear.
H’ere old Jones went off the line an’ smashed
against a tree;
There’s the rock that Higgins hit, the jagged
one yer see.
The Lord He takes the careless coves, the
watchful ones He saves,
An’ my luck’s in—or p’raps me hand. Aw!
damn that pile o’ staves.
Flyin ’ wheels an’ slippery track
Hold her as she swerves!
Half a mile of one in eight
Tests a fellow’s nerves.
Still —the Lord gives every man
Just wot he deserves.
VICTORIA.
P. T. F.


Verifies—'
's myselfthe
yre7
••Pericles” Act. V., Scene 111. Pericles, on
revealing his life story before the altar of
Diana of Ephesus, is re-united to his wife
and daughter after believing them dead for
twenty years.
YM
S'.
re
■M
m
as
r*>
\H
m
2*44
I
m
ln€
iri I
ltM
V/
m
ir-jj.
m
X'liis
aiPv
I
m
I
m
I
M
u
1
M
.s' i
as
m« ji
TA!?i\iwr/ A A
m
■
r s
’
M 4
m
Barnet Glass
BARNET glass rubber company limited


RUPTURE/
IHFnHUt
Know security of body and peace
of mind by wearing Denyer’s
Elastic Truss —the truss with the
patent water pad. You’ve never
known such comfort, freedom and
effective support as is provided
by this dependable appliance.
Trusses also made specially to order
for individual requirements.
Write for Free Pamphlet.
Single 30/- Double 40/-
DENYER BROS.,
Dept. 1, 267 George Street,
Sydney.
3- %
fioiS]
jg 3 JS»t.v«*' ToP ■
■ 5P*C** L [ B
1 dry gin 1
-■r-A
H« i*
ChvQfouf
'Basis is
BOLf
SILVER TCP
DRY «IN
IWTOrtJ
Depend On
Wunderlich Quality
Wunderlich Metal Ceilings
Wunderlich Roofing Jfles
Wunderlich “Durabescos” Building
Sheets
Wunderlich Metal Shopfronts
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
For Forty) Yean, Manufacturers of Quality
Products for Ceilings, Walls,
and Roofs
JUSTICE.
JONES: “What made you fine McLeod two quid for
drunkenness?”
COUNTRY J.P. : “That was for perjury. He said he only
had two drinks, and I remembered buying him
three myself.”
GETTING A NAME FOR GENEROSITY.
GREYHOUND: “You’re a silly little hound! What ever made you offer to share your
bone with the big Irish terrier?”
SCOTCH TERRIER: “Hey, mon, I kenned he was muzzled!”
“Sucre” : In the days when carriers carted
all the freight between Warwick and Goondi-
windi a publican at Inglewood had many
losses of liquor, that were ascribed by
guileless teamsters 'to “evaporation.” He
instructed a Brisbane liquor firm to forward
a keg of rum and to label it “Vinegar.” The
keg was picked up at Warwick by a Goondi-
windi carrier. On arrival at Inglewood it
was tapped and found to contain —vinegar.
»!* jJ* ;jj
“Macquarie”: My nomination the
softest Australian wood (B. 31/7/’29) is
King William pine. Soft, light, yet tougn
and extremely pliable, this fine pine grows
in almost inaccessible places on the Speck s
West Coast. Boat-builders and others find
many uses for ita unusual qualities.
“Guidie”: While I was re-
turning from an outside-district
run, a big old-man ’roo cut
across in front of my motor-bike.
He carried on to the fence, but,
instead of clearing it, turned
along it in the same direction
as I was going. For three-
quarters of a mil: we had a
neck-and-neck go at over 40
miles per hour, on gradually
converging tracks. He just
beat me to the corner when we
were not more than eight feet
apart, at each bound giving a
deep grunt.
x x *
“Chetwynd”: I take all tales
of stolen branded blankets found
in swags with a hundred-weight
of salt. As wardsman at several
back-country hospitals I have,
at owner’s request, opened
scores of swagmen’s bundles, but
have never noticed a branded
blanket or one with the brand
cut out. The majority of bush-
men when travelling carry a
change of underclothing, a pair
of good blankets, extra trousers
and a pair of ’lastic-sides for
township wear; as a rule, also
a tent and a tomahawk. Nearly
all have a book or two, ranging
from Nat Gould to John Stuart
Mill. One, a darkie, humps an
encyclopaedia, about 51b. weight,
and studies it constantly. At a
camp-fire Andy will cunningly
start an argument, and when all
have had a say will wind up
with “Well, we’ll see what the
book says.” Of course, the
encyclopiedia supports his con-
tention, he having carefully read
the matter up beforehand.
* * *
“601”: Is this a new one? I
was in the local pub the other
day when a chap came in and
asked for a bottle of self-starter.
The publican at once handed over a bottle of
wine or pinky, so I suppose the expression
has some currency.
% * *
“Up North”: Teamsters, alike with pros-
pectors, must sigh for the good old days of
the mining booms. Though the bullockies
never touched pick or shovel, they tapped
rich claims. The men who carted supplies
to the Peak Downs copper field made hun-
dreds of pounds every few weeks (they
charged £6O a ton), provided the weather
was fine. If it wasn’t their cumbersome
waggons were liable to be bogged for months,
and no language in the world could shift
them. Everything, including firebricks for
the furnaces, material for the refinery and
every bit of ironwork was taken in waggons
over the 250 miles from Rockhampton, and
every copper ingot that reached the coast was
shifted in the same way.
* * * *
“Si Dina” (Fiji) : It’s no easy job to rip
open a shark, and I’ve tried it only on
little ones up to sft. long that I’ve landed
iii the boat. I’ve seen the Fijian who goes
out with me make four or five stabs. with
a big sharp-pointed knife before getting, it
in ; and there was 14 stone behind the knife.
Even when you’ve got the knife in the rip-
ping must be done so that the knife cuts
from the inside —from the flesh to the skin.
The best and quickest way to take the hungry
look away from a shark is to cut off his
tail, thus/ severing his spinal column. That
is also the quickest way to stop an eel loop-
ing the loop with your line.
* * * *
“ J. 8.”: Dutchy the cook, a couple of
station-hands and myself rode into Wingoola
and breasted the bar at Casey’s, where we
were served by a lady whom I took to be
the boss’s wife, and
who was obviously
qualifying for the
baby bonus. As we
raised our glasses
Dutchy varied the
usual “chin-chin”
or “cheerio” with
“Here vos to John
in der cellar.” No-
body took any
notice, and I had
a fleeting thought
that the boss’s
name was John,
that he was a
friend of our pot-
walloper, and that
he was probably in
the cellar engaged
in breaking down
whisky or some
such professional
business. We had
two or three drinks,
and Dutchy never
altered his for-
mula. When we
left I said “If
John’s a friend of
yours, why didn’t
you get him up
from the cellar and
buy him a drink?”
He stared hard at
me and then burst
into a roar of
laughter. “M ein
Gott,” he said, “did
you not see how der
lady voz? Yell, I
give der Dutch
toast —‘To John in der cellar.’ Dat make
der yonker a boy and give him goot luck.”
I felt rather glad I didn’t know what it
meant when he was handing it up.
* * * *
“Murrungurry”: I have known two or
three instances of horses being so badly
burnt that they had to be destroyed, through
dragging the nosebag across the embers of
a fire that had been made to boil the billy
at midday. But a most unusual tragedy
happened on a Clarence River farm. The
moke had a mob of fowls around him, watch-
ing for grains that dropped from the feed-
bag. Suddenly he bolted in fright, .pnd after
galloping a considerable distance, trying des-
perately to get away from the swinging bag,
staked himself fatally on a stump in a gully.
Then it was found that a bantam hen had got
into the bag.
* * * *
“Scrubber”: When a Vic. farmer brought
down an oversize in eagles recently he found
a rabbit-trap, with spike and chain, firmly
gripping the bird’s leg, The wound sustained
in the first place had healed, so the eagle
had carried the hindrance about for some •
time. It had often been seen, and until
shot was thought to have a victim always
in its talons. Eagles and hawks often
alight on traps, and when trapped are ter-
rors to rabbiters, especially at night, when
they dart at you unexpectedly.
$ . $ * t
“Gouger”: The forest hill was lapped in
bright sunshine. A hawk circled above, like
a motionless fly. Down by the edge of a
shady - creek a big black shake pushed his
shovel-shaped head into a freshly-scratched
heap of loam that was the piled-up door-
way guarding the home of six wee rabbits.
The snake’s long length was working slowly
but surely. His head vanished; tiny clods
of earth and moist leaves trickled down on
to the neck as it followed after. The bush
was not silent; it chirped with birds and
hummed to the song of bees, and a locust
shrilled most joyously. But in the pitch dark
of the little burrow, only a snake’s length
in the earth, six baby rabbits were huddled
together in a pitiful silence. They smelt the
crawling death. In the sunlight outside the
mother came loping along. She stopped as
if paralysed at the sight of the gleaming
black body already half squirmed into the
burrow. Her large eyes, so soft and trust-
ing, shone suddenly like cold glass. She
shivered as if the air had gone icy cold.
But, mastering the impulse of fear, she
flew straight at the snake and bounded
up and down upon his body in jerky jumps.
Then she arched her back and scratched at
him with claws that had dug out many
a hard burrow. She made the earth fly
around his body, and missed him again and
again as his convulsive wriggles threw her
off. But she never ceased those frantic
scratchings until the maddened snake writhed
out with a force that slewed him a good
six feet from the burrow. With one hop
the mother rabbit jambed her body against
the damaged burrow. She squatted, facing
the snake, her heart hammering. H'e raised
his head and hissed, his eyes like sparkling
black pinpoints. He came straight for the
rabbit. She hopped aside. He came again.
She hopped away again and again, seeking
to lure him from the burrow. When the
blindness of his passion had worked off he
turned and wriggled straight back for the
burrow. The mother followed. At the bur-
row the snake paused, hissing threaten-
“PY CRIPE, MISSUS, YOUR OL’ MAN PLENTY GOOD
RABBITER, MINE THINK IT!”
ingly. The mother just waited for him to
put his head back into the hole. With a
terrible malevolence the snake glared at her.
He knew he was beaten. It would be a
waiting game. The mother would never move
away while he was there, and in time he
would get too hungry to stop longer. He
was hungry now. I left them at it.
SHIFTIN’ CAMP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
If there’s a day that us navvies hate it’s
the one when we’re shiftm camp ;
An’ it seems to be always ordained by fate
that day shall be cold an damp.
As sure as we’re fixed up nice an snug, with
enough wood cut for th year,
Th’ word is passed by some ruddy mug
that we’re to pack up an clear.
So it’s down with th’ tents in th’ drizzlin’
rain, th’ waggon is waitin’ now;
“No room for poles—you must cut cm
again!” “Oh, this is a flamin’ cow!”
“H'ere—mind that box, there’s eggs in that!”
“Look out for me hurricane-lamp !”
“Aw, cripes, don’t sit on me Sunday ’at!”
Scene one, when we’re shiftin’ camp.
“’Ere, give us a lift with th’ tool-box, Jack!”
“Oh, crikey! I can’t—-not yet;
Look at all this rubbish I’ve gotter pack,
an’ me blankets is gittin’ wet!
“Now, wot ’ave I done with me razor-strop?”
“Hold on with that blanky tarp.
There’s a lot more boxes to go on top.”
“Well, cripes, if there is, look sharp !
D’yer think I’m here for th’ blasted day?
Giddap there. V’ilet, Belle!”
“Y’ll ’ave t’ put th’ rest on th’ dray !” “Well,
git—ter flamin' Hell!”
“Now, where has th’ ‘powder-monkey’ gone?
Gor blime! th’ dashed ole scamp
Has walked away with me ‘oiler’ on!”
Scene two, when we’re shiftin’ camp.
Oh, it’s out at th’ back of th’ Billabong
Creek, with th’ waggon stuck in th’ mud;
It’s a bit of all right, we’ll be here a week,
an’ it looks like a flamin’ flood.
But we jack her up an’ lift her out’ an’
we’re under way again;
Oh, shiftin’ is bonzer, without a doubt —
especially in th’ rain.
But we’re there at last an’ th’ axes ring,
as th’ poles for th’ tents we lop;
There’s a cold show’r bath, at ev’ry swung,
from th’ branches on th’ top.
Then we search around for a campin’ site,
but all th’ ground is damp;
“This’ll ’ave ter do —it’s damn near night!”
Scene three, when we’re shiftin’ camp.
“Lend us a candle, will yer, Lew? Me karo-
senc got spilled,
Inter me bloomin’ sugar, too.” “It’s a
wonder I wasn’t killed
When that flamin’ box fell off th’ top ; an’
wot d’yer think of Jim?
I yelled to th’ rotten cow ter stop, but stop
—not ’im, not ’im!”
“Are you goin’ t’ use yer fryin’-pan? I
left me own behind.
Could I get some fat. an’ a billycan, that is
if you don’t mind?
An’ there’s a letter that I must write, if
you can spare a stamp!”
“ ’Struth! anything else yer leant to-niglit f”
Curtain —we’ve shifted camp !
VICTORIA.
THOS. V. TIERNEY.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
To hear from secretaries of gliding clubs or
persons interested in gliding, with view to forming
a Gliding Club Federal Council.—2o24.
To buy Scott’s “Elementary .Meteorology’’ and
Chambers’s “Story of the Weather.”—l93B.
To exchange for old Australian books, magazines,
pamphlets, newspapers and press clippings, par-
ticularly those dealing with gold-rush days, stamps
belonging to pre-war collections. —2022.
Metallurgist wishes to hear from party of miners
willing to co-operate in working reef, below
140 ft. ; battery engine and winder; mine requires
unwatering.—l993,
Nurse (Vic.), experienced, capable, wants posi-
tion travelling, S’Africa preferred.—l9oo.
Widow (N.S.W.), young, capable, giving up own
home, seeks position as housekeeper.—l 972.
Man (28), married, holding responsible job, wants
work anywhere as station book- or store-keeper or
as handy man. Refs. —1954.
Good horseman, robust physique, educated, used to
handling men, wants position taking remounts to
India. —1929.
Old-age pensioner (N.S.W.) wants home and small
wages. Good painter and bush worker (except
among stock). Able to do full day’s work. Refs.
—2019.
Single man (27), N.S.W. share farmer for last
six years on one property, sober, industrious and
educated (holds diploma), would like to become
partner with someone doing contract work. Refs.
Some capital.—2o2o.
Words of song entitled “All by Yourself in the
Moonlight.”—l966.
Words of songs, “Good-bye Bachelor Days” and
“The Wooden Leg and Stocking.”—l943.
Young S’Afriean (Sydney) would like to cor-
respond with other South Africans resident in Sydney,
New Zealand or Pacific Islands.- —1948.
Man (27) wishes to correspond with French
people.—l 947.
Whereabouts of Frank E. Moore. (To J. J.
Brewer, Comara, Macleay River, N.S.W.)
To buy or exchange “Nether World” or any other
books by George Gissing.—2ols.
Experienced and capable man (37), N.Q., single,
seeks position as station book-keeper, anywhere.
Refs. —2006.
Typist (Sydney), own machine, accustomed to
typing MSS., seeks typing at home.—2oo7.
Information Sought.
(1) 'Necessary height, weight, chest mea-
surement and age to join N.S.W. Police
Force? (2) Rate of pay? (3) What is the
nature of the training coarse, and what pay
do trainees receive? —1985.
(1) Not less than sft. 9in. in height in
bare feet, and list. 71b. in weight naked,
with a chest measurement of at in-
spiration. The minimum age is 20, maximum
27, save in the case of a returned soldier, for
whom the maximum is 30. (2) During the
first year of service, £6 6s. 7d. per week.
(2) Candidates must undergo at least three
months’ training at the Police Depot, and
are classed as trainees. They receive physi-
cal and educational instruction to fit them
for their subsequent duties, and also are
given instruction in first aid and life-saving.
Whilst in training recruits receive pay at the
rate of 16s. 7d. per day.
If a contract was signed for the purchase
of an electric-light plant, and later the state-
ments of the salesman were found to he un-
true and, misleading, is the contract binding?
—1957.
It can be set aside on the ground of mis-
representation if it concerns something of
material importance, a knowledge of which
would have caused the purchaser to refrain
from the purchase.
(1) At what rate is prohate duty charged
on a deceased person’s estate in N.S.W.? (2)
If there is a partnership of three persons
formed into a company a few weeks prior to
death, is prohate charged on a third of the
estate? (3) Are mortgages and overdrafts
deducted from the declared value of an
estate? —l9so.
(1) Depends on final balance of the estate;
thus : £lOOO but not exceeding £5OOO, 2 p.c.
duty; £5OOO but not exceeding £6OOO, 21
p.c. duty, and an additional 1 p.c. for each
additional £lOOO until £150,000 is reached,
and then 20 p.c. (2) Duty is charged only
on the monetary value of the interest held
by the deceased in the co. at the date of
death. (3) All debts against the estate of
whatsoever kind are deducted.
(1) Date of the capture of the Kelly
gang? _ (2) blow often teas Captain Moon-
light imprisoned, and what teas the date
of his capture after the W antabadgery affair?
"(1) June 29, 1880. (2) Moonlight was
tried in 1872 for a bank robbery in Vic. He
escaped from gaol, was recaptured, sentenced
to 10 years’ imprisonment, and released in
March 1879. He was captured on Novem-
ber 17, 1879, after the affair at Wantabad-
gery.
(1) Is there more than one Webster’s Dic-
tionary? If so, what are the distinguishing
features and price of each?— l7o6.
Webster’s New International Dictionary,
published by G. and E. Merriman, Spring-
field. U.S.A., is the work generally known
as “Webster’s.” The price is £6 6s. There
is also a dictionary published under the title
of Webster’s Imperial Dictionary by Saal-
field Publishing Co., U.S.A., at 50s.
How much would it take to set up a
job printing-office in a country centre, and
how would the main part of the capital be
expended? —l72o.
For a plant including a platen printing-
machine, paper cutter, reasonable, supply of
type and accessories, you can reckon about
£350. For a larger plant, to include platen
printing-machine, and, say, a demy-folio
Wharfedale machine, the approximate value
will be £(>so. The machinery in the £350
plant would be valued at £2lO, and in the
larger plant at £475.
How to cut out a pattern for a lampshade,
10m. diameter across top of shade, 14 in.
diameter across bottom of shade and 10 in.
deep? —l333.
Take a piece of material (cardboard, or
whatever it is), 44in. x 16in. Tack this on
a. smooth table with drawing-pins.. Draw a
line down the centre of the material, across
the narrowest length, and extend this along
the table with a long, straight edge. Impro-
vise a compass, and describe from a . point
on the line an arc with a radius of 35|m.
so that it is just within the side of the
material furthest from the centre of the arc.
Then, from the same centre, describe an arc
with a radius of 25£in. Now measure a
31in. segment across the inner circle. Carry
lines from the centre of the arcs through the
segment marks. Cut out along curves and
radial lines, and fold the curved shape round
so that the edges overlap 2in. It is best
to experiment with a piece of newspaper
before cutting valuable material.
What are the prospects of my making a,
living with a hawker's license selling ladies’
silk undergarments and silk stockings in the
country towns of N. 8. Wales? —1845.
Not at all good. You would be up against
the competition of a well-organised group of
Syrians, who, as they buy co-operatively,
in large, wholesale lots, would be able to
undersell you. In addition to that many
manufacturers don’t care to do business with
hawkers.
(1) What would be the fare to Q’land
of a boy (12) and a young man (over 21) ,
both residing in the Irish Free State, if
they secured nomination by a relative at
Cooktown ( Q .) as assisted immigrants? (2)
Arc there any associations in Q’land that
assist in bringing immigrants to that State
at any cheaper rate? (3) What chance would
ihe young man have of working his passage
out? (4) Where can full information be
obtained ? —-1775
(1) The boy’s full fare would cost £l9 55.,
and the young man’s £24 15s. It would be
necessary for them to be nominated from the
Department of Immigration, Box 144 ST,
G.P.0., Brisbane, to receive the benefit of
reduced fares. To receive the assisted rate
applicable to residents of United Kingdom,
the persons mentioned would have to live in
England, Northern Ireland, Wales or Scot-
land for a period, of six months before being
nominated. Fares would then be £5 10s.
and £l6 10s. respectively. (2) No, only a
friend or relative resident in Q’land can
nominate. (3) Practically none. (4) From
the address given in the reply to the first
question or from the Clerk of Petty Sessions,
Court House, Cooktown.
(1) In what type of aeroplane did Smith
and, Ulm cross the Pacific? What were its
principal dimensions, carrying capacity and
type of power plant? (2) Same particulars
as regards Moir and Owen’s machine? (3)
Was Hinkler’s machine fitted with floats to
alight on water? —1990.
(1) A triple-engined Fokker monoplane;
length of fuselage, 47ft.; wing span, 71ft.
Bin.; height, 13ft.; weight (empty), 50381 b.;
weight (fully loaded), 90201 b. The power-
plant consisted of three Wright Whirlwind
220-h.p. engines. (2) A Vickers-Vellore
single-engined freight-carrying biplane.
Length of fuselage, 51ft. Bin.; wing span,
76ft.; height, 16ft. 3in.; weight (empty),
47961 b.; weight (fully loaded), 95001 b.
Power plant, Siddeley Jaguar 425-h.p. engine.
(3) No, but he carried a collapsible boat in
case of forced descent into the sea.
What fraction of royalty is due to the
Forestry Commission of N.S.W. on timber
cut on a Crown leasehold? —3834.
Where the timber is obtained under a
special license, the Crown receives two-
thirds and the lessee one-third of the amount
of royalty. No payment of part of royalty
charged is made to the lessee in respect
of timber obtained from any such lease-
hold situated within a State forest or tim-
ber reserve.
(1) What is tlie\ appearance and composi-
tion of talc, and how does it occur? (2)
Fames of likely Sydney buyers? —l9oo.
(1) A soft mineral of a soapy feel, occur-
ring in foliated, granular or fibrous masses,
usually whitish, greenish or greyish in
color. In composition it is an acid mag-
nesium metasilicate. (2) Send a sample to
Minerals, Ltd., 264 Botany-road, Alexandria,
Sydney.
(1) Is it possible for a lad of 20 to take up
advertising as a career? If so, how? (2)
Are correspondence courses of any use? —
1735. ,
(1) Yes. The best way to start is as a
member of the advertising staff of a news-
paper or department store. (2) Helpful,
but not a substitute for practical experience.
(1) What are the prospects of tico young
men obtaining work in British North Bor-
neo in the iron and timber trades? (2)
Fares from Melbourne to Samdakan per
E. and A. and Bums Philp steamers? (3)
Prospects of securing similar work at Singa-
pore? (4) Fares from, Melbourne to Singa-
pore per Burns Philp steamer? —1726.
(1) Practically none. All manual work
is done by natives under white overseers.
(2) E. and A. line: Ist, single £4B 305.,
return £B7 55.; 2nd, single £32 155., return
£59; 3rd, £39 10s. each way. Burns Philp:
Ist, single £5l, return £9l 155.; 2nd, single
£34, return £6l 55.; 3rd, £2O each way.
(3) No better than in Borneo. (4) Ist,
single £53, return £96; 2nd, single £35 10s.,
return £64.
(1) What are the qualifications for a posi-
tion as stewardess on an overseas vessel?
To whom should one apply, and is it neces-
sary to apply in person? (2) Is it neces-
sary to have a passport on a boat trading
between Sydney and Vancouver? Would a
passport issued seven years ago still be
valid? (3) Is the position of stewardess
the only one available for women desiring
employment at sea? —ls37.
(1) Usually only women over 30 years
with nursing experience are appointed. Vac-
ancies are few and far between, and only
personal applications are considered. Full
particulars can be obtained from any
of the shipping cos. (2) It is neces-
sary to have a passport before one can be
signed on aboard an overseas vessel. A pass-
port issued seven years ago would have
expired by now. It could be renewed at the
Customs Department, but not beyond 10
years from the date of issue. (3) Laun-
dresses are the only other women employed
by shipping cos. on their vessels. Nurses,
travelling companions, secretaries, etc., are,
of course, occasionally employed by passen-
gers.
(1) In The Bulletin Novel Competition,
ivliat chance would a story of humorous fan-
tasy have? (2) Is the prize the full pay-
ment for first serial rights of the winning
novels, or is there space rate in addition? —
2011.
(1) Entries will be judged on their merits
in accordance with the published conditions.
It is quite impossible to say in advance any
more than that your story might have as
good a chance as any other. (2) The prizes
represent the full amount paid to winners
who have their stories printed. Competitors
whose entries do not gain a prize but whose
work is considered suitable for serial pub-
lication will be paid by arrangement if
their stories are published.
Can power alcohol be produced from straw,
and is there any literature describing the
process?— l2os.
Yes; it has been produced in Germany by
the Classen process. The question of com-
mercial practicability, etc., is discussed in
Bulletin No. 33 of the Council for Scientific
and Industrial Research 1 .
(1) Does any N.S.W. Government institu-
tion teach station book-keeping by post? If
so, length and cost of course? (2) Text-
books needed for such a course? (3)
Stationery requirements and cost?- —1944.
(1) Sydney Technical College. The course
takes 12 months to complete and the fee is £l.
(2) Fieldhouse’s “Student’s Book-keeping”
(4s. 10d., post free), Easton’s “Principles
of Australian Business” (2s. Bd., post free)
and Latter’s “Commercial Arithmetic” (2s.
9d., post free). (3) All ledger exercises
require to be worked out on ledger paper,
either on loose sheets or in a small ledger.
You will also need a cashbook and a journal
(either loose sheets or in book form). The
books may be obtained from most stationers
from 4d. each.
(1) Useful textbook for person engaged
in real-estate work in N.S.W.? (2) Must a
license be secured? (3) Must registry offices
be licensed? (4) Necessary books besides
journal, cash-book and ledger? (5) What
directories icon Id be useful in such a busi-
ness, and where can large-size maps of
Sydney and suburbs be procured? —'l92s.
(1) Reimer and Tebbutt’s “Law Relating
to Agency-law and Principles of Real-estate”
(Law Book Co., Phillip-street, Sydney), 15s.
(2) -No license necessary if trading in your
own name, but if in the name of a co.
such as John Smith and Co., or a partner-
ship, you would have to register as a firm
(Registrar-General’s Department, 7s. fid. if
before you start trading, 15s. if afterwards).
(3) Yes. (-4) Nothing more except list of
properties for sale or to let. (5) Wilson’s
“Street Directory,” Sands’ “N.S.W. Direc-
tory.” Maps can be obtained from H. E. C.
Robinson, 221 George-street, Sydney.
Recipe for making sand-soap?— l772.
Three pounds fat, which contains no salt,
Jib. caustic-soda, Jib. resin, 3gal. water and
lgal. clean, sharp sand. Put water and fat
into a kerosene-tin and heat until melted;
add caustic-soda in small quantities, stirring
all the time until all is added. Grind resin
to a powder, and add it with the sand. Boil
for 1-| hour, and pour into a wet kerosene-
tin to set. When set cut into pieces.
(1) To whom should I apply for a position
as learner in the tea-planting trade in Cey-
lon? (2) Would it be advisable for me to
go there and look for myself? (3) Are there
any prospects for a young man in Ceylon?
(4) What is the fare third-class to Colombo?
—1942.
(1) George Steuart and Co., 45 Queen-
street ; Whittall and Co., 14 Queen-street;
Bois Bros, and Co., Ltd., P.O. Box 13; J. M.
Robertson and Co., 6 Prince-street —all of
Colombo. (2) Not if your means are
scanty. (3) Depends on the man concerned.
Some companies put a beginner on one of
their estates at a nominal salary while he
is learning, and after six months, if he shows
promise, they give him the usual initial
salary for an assistant. Generally speaking,
opportunities are small compared with those
available in Australia. (4) £22 to £26.
(1) How can I make a good-quality toilet
poicder for use on a tender or chafed skin?
(2) How can I make fluid extract from
dried yellow dock roots. What preservative
should be used? (3) What is the best way
to kill the green moss that grows between
the lead lettering and the marble on a white
marble tombstone. —1713.
(1) 3 tablespoons finest rice flour (not
ground rice), 3 tablespoons cornflour, and 1
tablespoon boracie acid. Mix well, and sift
twice through very fine muslin. May be
perfumed with few drops of otto of roses.
(2) Cut roots into small pieces and
cover well with cold water. After soaking
some hours the water will be absorbed. Add
more water to cover well, and boil until the
roots are soft, replacing water lost by
evaporation. Strain through a jelly bag and
pour into wide-mouthed bottles as full as
possible. Stand the bottles in a pot of
wrnter, and boil over a good fire until
the extract itself boils, using paper or
straw to keep the bottles from knocking
together in the pot. Seal with new corks
which have been well sterilised in boiling
water, and dip the corked tops into melted
white wax. If boiling and sterilisation are
properly done, no preservative is needed. (3)
Scrape out the moss with a fine, sharp tool,
and when clean, rub petrol well into the
spaces. Then with a fine brush apply a
mixture of white shellac dissolved in methy-
lated spirits to the consistency of a thin
paste, filling it well into the interstices. If
much damage has already been done, it will
be necessary to have the letters re-set by a
piason before treating.
Brief Answers.
R.S.H.: Forward a sample of a few ozs.
to Minerals, Ltd., 264 Botany-road, Alexandria,
Sydney E.A.M.: The closest name we can find to
“Koorathella” is “Currathool,” probably a variant,
which means “native companion”... .W.G.W.: (1)
The demand for magnesite at the present time is very
limited. (2) No purchasers to our knowledge.
Communicate with Frank Hambridge, 22 Bridge-
street, Sydney T. 8.: (1) If the wife is not
receiving a pension, a joint bank account of £lOO
could be held without affecting pension rate. ...8.C.:
Shares in public cos. given as a legacy are not
exempt from N.S.W. death duty A.P.: The
longest stretch of water flown over by Hinkler was
from Bima to Darwin, 745 miles M.M.: (j.) There
are numerous excellent teachers of elocution in
Sydney, the names and addresses of whom can be
obtained from Sands’ Directory. We cannot recom-
mend any particular one. (2) The next examina-
tion for the elocution diploma granted by Trinity
College of Music, London, will be held in Sydney
in November. Particulars from the secretary of the
college, 16 Palings’ Buildings, Sydney. (3) “A
Practical Handbook of Elocution,” by Rose J. Patry;
“The Sounds of Spoken English,” by Walter Rip-
man ; and “Clear Speaking and Good Reading,” by
Arthur Burrell. .. .E.0.N.: Department of Public
Health, Sydney, will supply on request list of regis-
tered private hospitals in Sydney that make a practice
of receiving and caring for old people. (2) There
are Twilight Homes at Bickell-road, Mosman, and
Hannah-street, Beecroft —both Sydney; also homes
conducted by different religious bodies —notably the
Salvation Army... .8.J.M.: (1) “Modern Organ
Building,” by W'. T. Lewis, obtainable from
Dymocks, Sydney. (2) T. C. Edwards, 578 Harris-
street, Ultimo; C. Richardson and Co., 28 Eccles-
avenue, Ashfield —both Sydney—and G. C. Griffen,
Hamilton, Newcastle (N.5.W.)... .R.H.F.: Elder,
Smith and Co., Adelaide, will be able to tell
you. . . .11.J.M.: Try Gordon and Gotch, Angus and
Robertson, N.S.W. Bookstall Co., or Edwards, Dunlop
and Co. —all of Sydney... .S.S.: The paraffin will
gradually evaporate and the shine can be restored
by regular, thorough polishing. No other treatment
is necessary.... C.K.: Angus and Robertson, Sydney,
can supply Kirkup’s “History of Socialism” (10s.
6d.) and the Round Table (275. p.a.). The other
books can be ordered from London through them;
Hughes’s “Case for Labor” is out of print....
R.G.M.: The five-masted barquentine Forest Friend
was owned by Edgar Lucas Adams, who was also
master. Captain Adams died at Sydney. The U.S.
Consul-General at Sydney may be able to give you
further particulars.... S.F.: Get in touch with some
of the station owners in the interior where parakeelya
grows. It is more than probable that, like other
low-rainfall forages, though valuable under its natural
conditions, it could not be profitably transplanted.
. ...R.C.L.: (1) You don’t make it clear to whom
you refer. Give the names of the authorities you
quote. (2) Know no law against it. (3) Possibly
for certain diseases. No records... .C.M.1.: Cannot
trace any agents for those cars in Sydney. Several
have been imported direct from America...-D.F.Si:
The transfer should, in the ordinary course, have been
made long since, unless there are difficulties of title,
etc., requiring to be cleared up. Tell him that unless
the transfer is carried out without further delay,
in the absence of satisfactory reasons, you will place
the facts before the Incorporated Law Institute.
... .D.A.McP.: In England an innkeeper is liable
to pay up to £3O for loss or injury to property
brought to his inn. As in your case the property
Was not expressly deposited with the innkeeper and
you did not receive a receipt for it from his servant
you may have some difficulty in fixing the respon-
sibility. Possibly you could receive some assistance
in tracing the articles from the Superintendent C.I.
Department, New Scotland Yard, S.W.I, London....
E.M.C.: American Sheep-breeder and Wool-grower,
817 Exchange-street, Chicago. (Monthly, 10 cents.)
.. . .8.H.W.: Communicate with Sulphide Corporation,
Ltd., Cockle Creek, N.S.W., and Mt. Lyell Mining
and Railway Co., Ltd., Melbourne... .C.R.: Austra-
lian Coal, Shipping, Steel and The Harbour, 122
Chalmers-street, Sydney (monthly, Is.) ; Dailt
Commercial News and Shipping List, 16 Bond-
street, Sydney (daily, £5 ss. p.a.).... J.C.: Phalaris
bulbosa grass seed can be obtained from Arthur
Yates and Co., 184 Sussex-street, or Anderson and
Co., Kent-street —both of Sydney. It is planted in
the autumn. Ask Department of Agriculture for
pamphlets (issued free) “Pasture Improvement Work
in Northern Tableland Districts” and “Grasses for
Different Districts”. .. .M.T.: See reply to No. 1386,
Service Page (B. 28/8/’29)... .R.N.W.: Write to
either L. D. Nathan and Co., Ltd., or A. S. Paterson
and Co., Ltd. —both of Auckland. The Government
Kauri-gum Superintendent at Auckland will also be
able to help.... H.T.: Black bream are biting well in
Middle Harbor (Port Jackson) at night; also at Como
Bridge and Berowra Creek.... F.W.H.: (1) Taking
the value at £l2OO and the property to be under
the R.P. Act (Torrens title), the cost of conveyance,
including stamp duty, would be about 10 guineas,
and the solicitor’s fees from seven to nine guineas,
on scale. (2) You could do without a solicitor, but
it requires knowledge and experience. (3) Call at
the Lands Titles Office, Queen’s-square, Sydney, pur-
chase the necessary forms and ask for any informa-
tion you may require. (4) Time and terms are
settled by the parties... .E. 8.: No cure. Some
people have it dyed with success. No foods give
hair pigment... .E.H.: (1) It has cured some cases
and not others. Same applies to head noises. Cost
depends on the individual case. (2) All skin
specialists and some general practitioners treat
varicose veins... .M.M.A.: (1) The temperature alone
is no guide. (2) Stagnation in a part of the
alimentary canal. (3) No especial Australian one.
AH others we know are too complicated and technical
for lay readers... .J. A. A.: It is a Netherlands coin,
quite common here, and of no value... .8.E.: (1)
Only of interest to lovers of Nelson. (2) Merely
a trifling curio. (3) No intrinsic value. (4) The
prints were issued in thousands and have no value.
. ...F.R.M.: Unable to trace the origin of the
ornament; probably Austrian. Would have to inspect
before passing a definite opinion... .E.H.8.: The
china was made about 1847; it has no collector’s
value... .H.G.S.: Submit the impression of the seal
to any of the leading museums... .S.P.: A Leopold
“Shakspeare” has no special value... .T.D.M.: (1)
“Moroeeo-ite,” sold by John Danks Pty., 324 Pitt-
street, Sydney. (2) To remove oil from an oilskin, you
would have to boil it off by putting it into boiling
water with caustic soda, and then scraping off after the
oilskin had had about 10 to 15 minutes’ immersion.
A.F.: About 11,000 Angora goats in Aus-
tralia ; Queensland has the largest number 3400.
The quantity of mohair produced in that State in
1926 was set down at 15321 b., and the number of
skins placed on the market was returned as 487.
E. Scammell, Miles, Queensland, is a breeder of pedi-
greed Angora goats... .D.W.H.: (1) The opossum is
protected throughout the year in Queensland, though
from time to time an open season is declared for a
limited period. (2) It is illegal for any skins of
opossums to be held or sold during a close season.
(3) Opossum breeding in Queensland has not yet
been exploited. ... (Many others mailed.)


HOI R after HOUR-
-A HIGHER AVERAGE SPEED
iiIiISIBIBiMB
mm
:
1»
3t>!
m
l i
: ■
i
„
SISSi
CP
O
□
D>
i
M
✓ 'J' . f
CHOOSE your favored touring
speed and take the Vauxhall
wheel. From morning till night,
round the trickiest mountain
bends, over the hardest hill coun-
try, on the straight, smooth stretch
and the roughest
patches, Vauxhall
will maintain the
speed you fix... un-
falteringly.
General Motors
[Australia] Pty. Ltd.
Brisbane : Sydney : Melbourne
Adelaide : Perth
y
There’s but one way to prove
Vauxhall performance... drive the
car. Until you do so you cannot
imagine its brilliance, its power,
its amazing gears and their clash-
less operation; nor can you appre-
date how fresh it is
possible to feel at the
end of a long day’s
fast driving.
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL
DEALER.
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR
Convenient payments can be arranged on
the liberal G. M. A. C. Terms Plan.
n
ie imDPOv-ed
VAIJXHALLSIX
-of a Lon 4 Blue Blooded Line
METROPOLITAN DISTRIBUTORS:
Brisbane : Metropolitan Motors Limited , Adelaide Street
Adelaide: Mann's Motors Limited, Franklin Street
Sydney: Kirby Lyons Limited, 73-75 William Street.
Perth: Master Motors Limited , Milligan Street


We Unload Stock
promptly on arrival, day or night, handle them
carefully, class them skilfully, value them accurately
and sell them at top market figures.
WINGHCOMBE,CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
Homebush Yards, Enoggera Yards,
Sydney, Brisbane.
Truck sheep, lambs, cattle, calves, pigs, to
Winehcombe, Carson.
Offices: Winehcombe House, Bridge Street, Sydney;
and 99-101 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
THE BEST IS ALWAYS THE CHEAPEST
Graziers will undoubtedly realise that quality wool produces bigger
profits, and the same may be said of Stock Licks. The best lick is
always the cheapest in the end and can only be judged by results.
VITA-LICK has stood the severest tests and still is acclaimed the
foremost lick on the market
Mr. H. J. Harvey, Kindalin, Dubbo, writes:—
“I have been using VITA-LICK during the past five years and
have found it the best on the market to keep sheep healthy.”
USE VITA-LICK CONSTANTLY.
VITA-LICK, LIMITED,
STOCK LICK SPECIALISTS,
107 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter § Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CRPARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
MORE PRIZES FOR FARMERS.
In order to encourage farmers to pass
on to others the fruits of their observa-
tion and experience, “The Bulletin” will
give three prizes for the most helpful
contributions during the six months to
Dec. 31 next.
Points will be awarded for every con-
tribution submitted, if thought worthy and
whether printed or not, and two prizes—
the first of £25 and the second of £lo—
be given to the winners of most
points.
A special prize of £5 will be given for
£he best individual contribution.
Only contributions that are of practical
value to men on the land are asked for;
literary merit is not taken into account, so
long as the meaning is expressed plainly.
The prizes are in addition to the ordi-
nary payments made for all “Bulletin”
contributions.
+
THE FARM TRACTOR.
“Hatter”: Figures compiled by the U.S.A.
Department of Agriculture from the experi-
ence of tractor owners have an interesting
bearing on the recent discussion with regard
to depreciation. Out of 684 reports received
586 owners considered their tractors profit-
able and estimated the average life at
eight years ; the remaining 98 who were dis-
satisfied put it at only five years.
The general opinion of users, summarised,
was that no farm under 90 acres of arable
land could make profitable use of a two-
plough tractor, and that it would require 130
acres to warrant the purchase of a three-
plough machine. It was agreed that the
greatest advantage was the saving of time,
enabling field operations to be performed
when conditions were most favorable. The
deeper ploughing possible with tractors gave
better results. The reduction in expense was
inconsiderable unless there was a certain
amount of heavy belt work also for which
the tractor could be used.
Dissatisfied owners emphasised the cost of
operation and repairs, and lack of adapta-
bility.
It is obvious that tractors are best suited
to farms where the paddocks are large and
comparatively level. England, for instance,
has little use for them. In that country
tractors perform on the average only between
300 and 700 hours’ work each year at a cost
of 3s. per hour, while the farm horse aver-
ages 1500 to 1700 hours at a cost of sd. to
6d. Conditions are, of course, far more
favorable in America and Australia, where
the climate is drier and the paddocks are
large and regular.
Where the farm is suitable and the tractor
of the right size and reliable in make, pro-
bably the determining factor for success or
failure is the mechanical ability of the
farmer or liis son. In the _ hands of a
mechanically-minded man repairs, deprecia-
tion, fuel consumption and delays may be
reduced to a minimum, and ingenuity exer-
cised to adapt the machine for various pur-
poses. It cannot be expected that an ordi-
nary farm-laborer should make a proficient
tractor operator without careful training.
TRACTORS IN SOUTH AUS.
“H.11.H.”: It took me three years to buy
a tractor, and my final decision was a wheel-
type machine, owing to the fact that a neigh-
bor operating a two-ton crawler for three
years was involved in expenditure of approxi-
mately £lOO p.a. for the renewal of tracks
and track gears. This crawler-tractor worked
in sandy ground, and whilst it could go any-
where with a reasonable load, the upkeep
costs condemned it in my eyes, and also in
the eyes of the owner. The wheel-tractor
I am using is now two years oid, and the
lugs and wheels are as good as the day I
bought them.
Other ■■ crawler-tractors in our locality
(S.A.) give more or less satisfactory results,
but the results seem to depend largely on
the type of driver and the load the tractors
are called upon to handle. With their high-
speed engine, they will not handle a con-
tinuous full-load as effectively as a wheel-
tractor, and for all-round economy, easy
riding and simplicity, any well-known make
of wheel-tractor to operate on kerosene is
more efficient, economical and possesses a
greater margin of reserve power.
Crawler-tractors are fairly popular in
South Aus. owing to the variety of condi-
tions. met with, varying from boggy ground
to loose drift-sand; but tractor-farming on
loose drift-sand does not pay, and it is bad
farming practice to work ground over which
a wheel-tractor will not handle its load with-
out bogging.
Regarding Involute and the Continental
crude-oil tractor, readers will appreciate the
fact that in 1927 there were 476 American
kero.-tractors imported into Germany: in
1928 the number was 3000-odd. It would
appear, therefore, that the Continental trac-
tor has no high status in the land of its
birth.
WHAT’S BEST TO DO WITH
STUBBLE?
“F.S.A.”: “Noah ’Fraid” (B. 7/8/’29) is
not correct in asserting that it would take
40 gallons of molasses solution to spray an
acre of stubble. Experience shows that 25
gallons of liquid per acre is sufficient. In
“Noah ’Fraid’s” district in another State
water may be “worth its weight in sheep,”
but that is not the experience in S.A., where
the majority of farms have the water piped
on. I will concede, however, that possibly
a ton of molasses for treating 100 acres of
stubble is not adequate. Even two tons
for that area would work out at only about
Is. 4d. per acre. The dilution should be
about one of molasses to six of water. That
strength solution, applied at the rate of 25
gallons per acre, will sufficiently sweeten the
straw to render it most palatable. I main-
tain that the suggestion is both practicable
and economical unless, as in “Noah ’Fraid’s”
case, water and a power-spraying machine
are not available.
The daily-maintenance ration of a mature
sheep which I gave (protein .151 b., carbo-
hydrates 1.201 b., fat .0251 b.) is correct.
“Noah ’Fraid’s” U.S.A. figure as to fat,
.00251 b., is certainly wrong. In giving the
digestible nutrients in wlieaten straw the
decimal point in the percentage of fat should
have preceded the first figure, making it read
.27 p.c. instead of 2.7 p.c. of fat. My per-
centages of protein (.66 p.c.) and carbo-
hydrates (21.7 p.c.) are approximately cor-
rect, as they are based on English, American
and German percentages of co-efficients of
digestibility. Wolff’s revised analyses give
the total protein content of wheaten straw
as 2.15 per cent., and the co-efficient of
digestion as 26 p.c. That would give a
protein feeding value (digestible nutrients)
of .56 p.c. A. H. Renard (“A.B.C. of
Scientific Stock Feeding”) gives the nutrient
value as .60 p.c. The analysis of straw by
the N.S.W. Department of Agriculture dis-
closes 3.8 p.c. of protein, which, with a 26
p.c. digestibility, would leave a nutrient
value of .98 p.c.
Accordingly, “Noah ’Fraid’s” .2 p.c. of
protein in straw cannot be right, particu-
larly as he gives 35.1 p.c. of carbohydrates
and .4 p.c. of fat, which would produce a
nutritive or albuminoid ration of 1 to 220 —
so wide that sheep could not exist on it.
The percentages of digestible nutrients in
straw which I gave showed a nutritive ratio
of 1 to 36 against 1 to 33 quoted by Renard.
WHY NOT USE THE ROLLER?
“ J.L.G.”: During the recent dry spell
there have been many cases where crops
have germinated unevenly, or where they
have grown but have pulled out badly when
sheep have been turned in to eat them off.
I have frequently suggested the field-roller
to improve these conditions. Farmers agree
with me, but seldom act on my suggestion.
Rolling would firm down the soil, bring-
ing up moisture to the germinating seed
and encouraging a firmer rooting of the
young plant. When a crop is commencing
to curl up owing to lack of moisture, it
can be kept alive for several weeks if the
roller is used. This applies especially to
crops on medium loams or on stubble ground
where the seed-bed is not close to the sur-
face. At Coonabarabran (N.S.W.) a few
weeks ago I saw a paddock which had been
fed-off with disastrous results. Eighty per
cent, of the plants had been pulled out on
the lighter soil, but there were distinct lines
across these patches where the plants were
well rooted and growing well. These lines
were not due to double rowing, although
they were about a drill width apart, but
were due to the packing and firming of
the soil through the pressure of the drill-
wheels bringing the seed-beds (and therefore
the moisture) to the surface, encouraging
rooting and better growth.
FLAG SMUT AND LIMB.
“Curlew”: In the Vic. Mallee it has been
noticed that flag smut was very prevalent
on limestone land, and experiments carried
out at the Werribee Research Farm during
the past three years have demonstrated
clearly the close relation between the pres-
ence of lime in the soil and the percentage
of diseased plants. The experiments were
carried out on plots permanently dressed
during many years with the same class of
fertiliser:—
Proportion
Fertiliser. Infected Plants.
Super, 4 cwt. . . .. .. .. 2.2 per cent.
„ 14 „ 2.2 „ „
2 .. 2.7
„ 1 „ -(- lime 5 cwt. . . 10.9 ~ „
„ 1 „ + .. 10 „ •• 14.4 „ „
Farm manure, 10 tons . . . . 17.0 ~ ~
~ „ -f- lime, 10 cwt. .. 28.8 ~ ~
No manure .. .. .. .. 4.4 „ „
McAlpin previously had fed a horse on
diseased hay, then using the manure, but
the infection was very slight. Where, how-
ever, diseased straw was used on a plot,
the infection was more virulent than where
spores were dusted on the seed used.
SUBTERRANEAN CLOVER.
“Bullswool”: Those who missed the
autumn sowing of subterranean clover can
with safety, in any district that usually has
a good spring and moderate summer, put in
a few acres as soon as the weather is warm
enough to germinate the seed. This clover
is going to solve the feed problems for
many farmers if they undertake its seeding
properly, and allow a decent resting period
with a liberal top-dressing annually. Unlike
many other clovers, this chap when it
flowers turns the bloom over, and when the
seed-pod is ripe it is pushed so close to the
ground that it germinates, so that once
sown, provided stock are not continually
grazed on it, it will annually re-establish
itself, But it likes a good manuring each
year. Owing to its habit, light sowing at
first is the best, and it will soon mat all
over the ground. It checks the growth of
many useless herbs that come up, and pro-
vides great autumn, winter and early-spring
feed, generally a time when there is a marked
shortage of natural grasses. The burr that
contains the seed-pods is not hooked, and
will not attach itself to the wool. If sowing
with other grasses for pasturage allow about
lib. of clover, and up to 41b. if sown, alone.
GRASSLAND MANAGEMENT.
_“S. Quire”: Top-dressing natural pastures
with super, has been practised in parts of
Australia for many years, but it is only
recently that the practice has become gen-
eral. The system, in many cases, is to
top-dress with super., and then shut up the
paddock and pray for a dry year in the
hope that lucrative grazing fees may be col-
lected or starving stock purchased for a
song. Then the owner spends many days
with a lot of other fellows trying to put
out a bush-fire.
Grass grows annually as side-shoots on
the crowns, and the earlier you graze, within
limits, the richer the fodder, the stronger
the growth and the heavier the yield. A
grazing butcher in a favored part of north-
eastern Vic., with a rainfall of 32 inches
per annum, has a paddock containing 46
acres of alluvial flat. The soil is good. For
many years this paddock topped-off on an
average 50 bullocks and 150 sheep .per
annum, By top-dressing in the autumn with
lewt. of super., and applying two dressings
each of lcwt. of sulphate of ammonia in
the spring, combined with regular harrow-
ings and a system of rotational grazing on
the subdivision into four paddocks, 86 bul-
locks and 350 sheep were put through the
slaughter-yards from the 46 acres last year.
Top-dressing pastures with super., com-
bined with the judicious application of sul-
phate of ammonia, regular cultivation with
the harrows and a sane system of close-
rotational grazing, is the thing. Super, pro-
duces a mixed pasture by encouraging the
growth of the clovers and trefoil, and the
nitrogenous fertiliser increases and enriches
the growth of the grasses.
RICE AS SHEEP FODDER.
“Fred Rich”: J. Ross, grazier, of Uri
Park, in the Riverina district, claims that
he has solved the sheep-fodder question. He
feeds his flock of 3000 sheep on rice. The
grain is given to the flock at the rate of
half a pound a head per day for. five days
of the week, the diet being varied with
wheaten hay. Before starting the flock on
rice, Mr. Ross was feeding them on corn
and oats. He finds that the sheep are
thriving just as well on the rice, at a cost
of from £4 to £5 per ton less than either
maize or oats.
Regarding the value of rice for stock feed-
ing, the Director of Agriculture, A. E. H.
McDonald, says that in the United States,
where the rice-growing industry had
developed very substantially during recent
years, a number of feeding experiments was
conducted to determine the value of second-
grade rice, and in one series it was found
that unhusked rice had a feeding value of
7 per cent, more than maize. Second-grade
rice is being sold on rail Sydney at £7 10s
per ton, as compared with oats at about £lO
and maize at £l2 per ton.
TOMATO-GROWING.
“Curlew ’: The record of the results of
tomato-growing in N.S.W. during the last
season under departmental supervision is
worth study. I have done a bit at the game
myself, getting a crop of Earliana to yield
16 tons to the acre. In the N.S.W. tests
Bonny Best, Earliana, Marglobe, Large Red,
Landreth’s Earliest, Chalk’s Jewel, Pink
Queen and Money Maker were used.
Three growers carried out the tests. In only
one case was Money Maker used, but in that
plot it yielded best of the lot, producing
nearly 1500 cases, worth £6BO per acre.
Earliana averaged 1189 cases, Chalk’s Jewel
1193, Bonny Best 1124, Marglobe 622 and
Chinese (a large red) 580. Bonny Best and
Earliana proved particularly suited for early
tomatoes, and Marglobe was found to be
particularly resistant to wilt.
Personally, after experimenting with many
varieties, I prefer Earliana, while for a late
crop I have found Matchless excellent. In
Vic. Burbank is very largely used for the
early market. Bonny Best is a robust
grower, produces good-quality fruit, and is
a heavy cropper. It is advisable to save
seed from the earliest and best-fruiting
plants, and to save the fruits as they ripen,
numbering each particular plant and using
corresponding numbers for the seed. Care-
fully chosen, an improvement should be
shown each year. Gathering the residue at
the end of the season and using it for seed
does not make for big yields or satisfaction.
Various manures were used in the N.S.W.
fertiliser trials of super. scwt. showed good
results; lOcwt. super, gave an increased
yield; potash apparently was not needed;
sulphate of ammonia (lewt. per acre) was
a valuable addition to 6cwt. of super.; 2icwt.
super, and the same of bonedust gave a big
yield, even better than super, and ammonia.
Personally, I prefer super, and bonedust.
The nitrogen in bonedust is less forcing than
in sulphate of ammonia, and will, I believe,
produce better and more fruit with sturdier
vines that will not be so readily affected by
adverse weather conditions.
DUAL-PURPOSE CATTLE.
“Squaremile”: “Ooline” (B. 14/8/’29)
says he has “seen I.M.S. bullocks from a
good milking herd in the first 10 of 100
fats”; but that has nothing to do
with cutting out the drudgery of dairying,
as he suggests. The dairy-farmer who bred
those bullocks did not sell them as fats. He
must have sold them as poddies, and the
milk they needed to keep them going until
they were sold would have been much more
profitably employed in feeding pigs. lie
made his job all the more laborious by keep-
ing male poddies instead of keeping pigs.
If he had kept the poddies until they were,
say, two years old he would have had to
run them on good land where he should
have been running a dairy-cow, since the
latter would return a monthly revenue and
the bullock would return nothing until it
was sold. The cost of keeping a bullock
for • two years, taking land at £2O an
acre and interest at 7J per cent., would
come to £2l, so that the dairyman would
have to get at least that sum for the
animal to justify keeping it. If he did,
and could rely upon doing it continuously,
he could certainly abandon “the drudgery of
dairying,” and go in for producing beef
instead.
TEAT TROUBLES.
“C.H.P.”; Cold weather, especially a cold
wind, makes for sores and cracks on teats.
Unless these are quickly remedied they are
likely to develop into serious troubles. One
of the best things to use is carbolised vase-
line. Buy it, or melt 30oz. vaseline (pet-
roleum jelly) and add loz. carbolic acid.
Grease the teats with it before and after
milking. For a good teat-wash, make
2oz. glycerine hot, add boracic acid,
then pour it into one pint of hot w-ater. Let
it get cold and immerse the teat in it for a
few minutes. This lotion may be used time
after time; it is specially good when used
with the ointment.
Cow-pox, an aggravated form of sore teat,
if not checked will soon spread through the
herd. Dissolve hyposulphite of soda in
one pint of water and wash the sores with
it after every milking.
In neai-ly every herd of cows there is one
with a “lost quarter.” This not only is a
loss to the owner through the milk supply,
but also greatly reduces the value of the
cow if the owner wishes to sell. The writer
was told of a cure a good many years ago.
He has tried it and found it to act properly.
Get the cow in about a fortnight before she
is due to calve. Bail her up every milking
time and milk the weak quarter or quarters
only: do not touch the good quarters. At
first you will get nothing. Persevere and
eventually you will get a little. Keep it up
right to the day of calving, no matter if you
get only a few drops.
(Continued on page 32.)


OVERHEAD DOOR
for Garages, Factories,
Service Stations, Schools.
m Wp
“Overhead Doors’’ buiit into garages
attached to a block of flats.
The ‘‘Overhead Door” is a new and improved door
for Garages, Factories, Service Stations, etc.
It has many advantages over other doors and roller
shutters, some of which are set out below.
The “Overhead Door” can be made to conform to
any architectural scheme, and it harmonises with and
adds beauty to the building.
No change in the building is required to install Over-
head Doors,” and 12 inches headroom from top ot
doorway to ceiling is sufficient.
If you are interested, fill in the coupon and we will
send you full particulars by return mail.
The “OVERHEAD DOOR”—
Can be Operated by a Child
Is Easily and Quickly Installed
Locks and Unlocks from Either
Side
Will Not Twist, Sag or Pull Out
of Shape
Does Not Take Up Valuable
Space
“Overhead Doors” can be built to harmonise with any
architectural design. They can be operated by a child.
The “OVERHEAD DOOR”—
Stays Open
Stays Closed
Will Not Blow Shut
Makes Available Full Height and
Width of Opening
Does Not Scrape the Floor
Fits Tightly at Top, Sides and
Bottom
* c V
*> 'V *
ojV'•• U v
%>* ...-•■ ...
' ••••
$
A n ELECTRIC
CONTROL to
operate DOOR
and LIGHTS in
your garage may
be installed and
operated from the
Driveway or House
Overhead Doors” used to cover the entrances to service
stations, cart docks, etc.
Are Obtainable Only From
WILLIAM ADAMS <f COMPANY
________ E. I M ITED
SYDNEY . . 175 Clarence Street MELBOURNE. . 521-523 Collins Street
BRISBANE.. 93 Albert Street ADELAIDE. 157 Waymouth Street
PERTH 432-36 Murray Street NEWCASTLE. .17 Bolton Street


è
é
u
Good Season Assu
MAR MON BUILT, S
Q)
ft
PROD'
OQSgVg
sTR MGHT-^
_ T \eng^ s in .
STR^ 1
MO « w- “
1 des« es an u M atltY ° n ° oe er atft otvg
cat U eis^ e °® the most econotn bl \ (
s « algVl t 5 buiß 10 S ' Ve , an exc\«« ve a ction c
W
h f
(.?
H
at Jbtfy Cl? , vKe eigW Ul v eC otvo^ lC
»■*':&»“ ** k „ «**• ;i' i
‘"t
<* « e - X L ou^' ng
r ***• veU Vs even'***
tS*— - "* .****—'*
. u bv Ma^ otv \
D> t _ aes^ ed - Melbourne.
that can be * .. .i-i SK°*- M
: i. lA A ' - :t ‘*
"-'m
i / 181 '
?sKsre2»p®£v •'
1
"*3g
'<3
is?'jf
ita&fiwfciss
I
'j# ■%
I****
See at
.r V. %, 'V*3
$Jf Vu.i? • "’>••
V#\L
lit??* s'" %r 7
ft x * •
! %I^
...
; - ; V:' :: ‘XV :;..V
iV >.J;;. >.. / ...
,*svt
, ' gf# P..
■•■■•; fgxyi&i-p •■%•••*
* ' ‘ - ) v
,~ v* .fc ;**./ -.. * r * MTI#
•••• •-•-?*•“• *?ss:%s? .y-vv :_...„• ;,..,. a&S
..* ' ..... .... .7...,. ....:^."V' l '-.'..,. ; .&v.;v : '.;..v^v.'.V.’^r ; *^V. ; .
" \- - >-....1v..«v5:‘..;. ' K.. •....■...‘v.V'aA;.A:;A*V'
■■■ ■ •■■"*■-
w; .I‘<V
;. , ;■
.
, ■ A- '•
-seasse** 5
9
The Marmon- and Marmon-Roosevelt cars can be seen at the Royal
Agricultural Show, Melbourne, September 19 to 28, sections 21, 22,
23, Administrative Block.
Marmon-Roosevelt Straight-Eight 4-door Sedans, fitted with imported
bodies, from £485
r i
OMD
HEAD OFFICE: 175-191-195 Queen Street,
Melbourne, C.l, Victoria. ’Phones: F 2523, F 6320.
NEW SOUTH WALES (Note new address) :
53-55 William Street, Sydney. Thone: F 2236
SOUTH AUSTR


e
Jw
m
O
7M\
V,
£
i
&lM
u^
-v"
ied
our
MAHtHHCMN
THE NEW “78.”
KNOW the thrill of driving this super car—the Marmon
“78”—with its sweeping, graceful lines—sleek lines
that tell the tale of the powerful 86-horsepower motor
sheathed under the high, massive hood. Swift acceleration is
unmistakable evidence of Marmon performance.
Basically, of course, that’s because it’s a straight-eight—with
all the smoothness, flexibility, ease of operation and reserve
power that only a straight-eight can afford.
MARMON luxury is embodied in every detail of construc-
tion—yet the price is quite moderate. Its long record
as “the easiest riding car in the world” is more than
borne out in the new “78.”
With a good season ahead, let your thoughts of car buying
be directed to the incomparable Marmon—the car supreme
in quality, safety and long life.
VL
M \
as®!
i nr.
*
4
wv
: 1S!
ass
Wss'irSßsSi
A
Si**!
sSaiftS
The New Roosevelt Straight-Eight Five-passenger Sedan.
i%O?.
-
- vy R(CHfIRDSON
I
4
4
Richards, Ltd.,
1 Adelaide.
.WEST AUSTRALIA: Austral Motors,
Murray Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: National Motors Pty., Ltd.
Charles Street, Launceston.


è
é
ê
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
No disease has caused more loss in sheep than Fluke,
yet for less than one-fifth of a penny per sheep this
can now be cured by the application of Carbon
Tetrachloride. This process has been tested by the
Agricultural Departments of various States in Aus-
tralia, and has received their endorsement. It
requires preparation and additions before it can be
applied to the sheep, and these are skilfully carried
out in
SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
1 pint tins .. . 4/6 5/- each
1 quart tins . . 6/6 7/- each
POST PIiEE ON FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins . . 13/6 16/- each
DELIVERED NEAREST RAILWAY STATION
ON FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY., LTD.,
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
FOP THE
SKIN AND SCALP
MY
VlSfijvrruvGciZ "Goifi
Qlti!
dsuP
Can Be Obtained
In Two Sizes
From dealers everywhere. For
eczemas, rashes, pimples and all skin
irritations, it is soothing and healing,
especially when assisted by Cuticura
Soap. Bathe with the Soap and hot
water, dry gently, and anoint with
the Ointment. Unexcelled in purity,
Cuticura Soap and Ointment are re-
garded by millions as unrivaled in
the promotion of skin health.
Soap Is., Talcum ls.3d„ Ointment It. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment address:
“R. Town* & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.”
Upflf Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
X
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
ë
DONALDS WOOLPRESSES
The easiest-worked and most popular Woolpress at present available.
Has a world-wide demand. The No. 2 Press, shown here, is specially
designed for medium and small sheds, where economy of space and con-
venience in working are essential. Not anchored to floor or ceiling in
any way. Loose back recently incorporated. Send for free catalogue.
STRENGTH, QUALITY AND SATISFACTION
GUARANTEED
No. 2 Press, £24; No. 1, £33; Hoist, £3 extra.
Procurable from all Merchants, or
DONALD PATENTS LTD.,
GLENMORE ROAD, PADDINGTON, SYDNEY.
Makers of the famous Donalds Wire Strainers, Lifting
Jacks, Skewers, etc.
“KANGAROO” SHEEP GATE
REGISTERED No. 17494/28.
IV,II,
BPPK
|L_
?*■/
Designed for sheep-pens or
draughting yards to facilitate
the handling of flocks. The gate has one bottom hinge to the back
guard, on which it works, and is simply thrown across into the
long catch bar, which holds it securely.
PULL PARTICULARS FROM THE MANUFACTURERS:—
D.ffW. CHANDLER LTD.
BRUNSWICK STREET,
FITZROY, VICTORIA.
TO BEND METAL PIPES.
“Fray Bentos”: To bend metal piping
without flattening the sides, get perfectly
dry, clean sand. Prepare a tapered wooden-
plug and drive tightly into one end of the
pipe, after making sure that no foreign sub-
stance is in it. Stand on end and pour in
sand, tapping gently to get it down, until
it is filled to within an inch of the top.
Make a dozen or 15 thin soft-wood wedges
six inches long, and drive them four inches
into the piping until the end is completely
blocked, so that the sand cannot escape.
The piping is now, to all intents, solid, and
may be heated and bent to the desired angle
like ordinary bar-iron. Do not use damp or
wet sand, or when it is heated it will either
burst the piping or blow out the plugs.
CAKE OF THE INCUBATOR.
“Jack Point": Leave the incubator alone
at hatching time. When the eggs are finally
tested on the 19th day the machine should be
closed up; it should not be opened on any
account until the hatch is absolutely finished.
If the machine is not fitted with doors a
piece of dark cloth should be hung in front
so that no light can penetrate. If this is
done, the chicks will lie quiet when they
hatch, which is just what they should do.
Some machines are so fitted that the chicks
make for the light immediately they emerge
from the shell, and they fall down into the
nursery drawer. This is a very bad feature,
and one that has been eliminated from the
best incubators. The nursery drawer is at
least 10 degrees cooler than the hatching
tray, and it does the chicks harm to be
subjected to such a sudden drop before they
are even properly dried off.
If the hatch is a good one it should be
completed within 36 hours of the chipping
of the first egg, and it is worse than useless
to try to help any chicks out of the shell
that haven’t got <jut themselves within that
time. They may live, but they will never
be profitable to you. The less you peep in
to see how the hatch is progressing the
better.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Will lucerne, sown on well-cultivated river-
flat (alluvial) soil, eradicate couch or ass?
—1703.
N.S.W. Department of Agriculture does
not advise sowing lucerne on land that is
infested \Vith couch grass, as the grass will
in time become so thick that it will smother
the lucerne. Obtain pamphlets entitled
“Lucqyne” and “Lucerne as Pasture in West-
ern Districts,” issued gratis by Department
of Agriculture, Sydney.
(1) Is there any information available as
to the suitability of Tagerim lucerne to Aus-
tralian conditions? (2) What is the differ-
ence between Tagerim and Westernport
lucerne? (3) Where can I obtain Tagerim
plants, and what is the price? —374.
Tagerim is a new strain of the Grimm
variety, selected and introduced into Maori-
land 13 years ago by A. Macpherson, the
pioneer of lucerne growing in the Dominion
and for some time the N.Z. Agricultural
Department’s specialist in lucerne culture.
The N.Z. Agricultural Department has not
experimented with it. The N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture has made tests, and
reports that, while Tagerim is “worthy of
further trial,” it has not yet been proved
superior to Tam worth or Hunter River. (2)
They are identical. (3) F. Rogen, 64 Little
Collins-street, Melbourne; 435. to 455. per
100, according to quantity.
(1) What is the best way to prepare clay
land for growing vegetables on a small scale?
(2) Planting beans, if I use blood and bone
manure, at what depth should it be put, and
how much should be used? —l74s.
(1) Horse manure should be applied and
gypsum worked into the surface. (2) Beans
should be sown very shallow, not more than
two inches. Fertiliser should be applied in
the bottom of the drill before planting. After
sowing the fertiliser, run the rake handle
along the bottom of the drill —this will mix
the soil and fertiliser. About one to two
ounces of fertiliser per yard of drill will
suffice. A mixture of four parts of super-
phosphate and one part of air-slaked lime
should be tried for beans.
I have a farm in North Tas., some part of
which is subject to floods. I go round the
sheep vn the morning, and they are feeding
apparently, well. I go back in an hour and
several will be dead. They swell up, go
black on the underside of the legs, near the
body, and the wool falls out at a touch.
What is the disease, and what is to be done?
—l6lB.
The symptoms are consistent with death
from black disease. You should report cases
immediately to the Department of Agricul-
ture, Launceston, when, after an investiga-
tion by a Government veterinary officer, the
eause could be determined and measures
taken for prevention.
Principal symptoms and method of treat-
ment of.( 1) catarrh and eye roup, and (21
diphtheric roup among fowls? —1739.
(1) The principal symptom is an offensive
discharge from the nostrils, which, later, if
the disease becomes progressive, will be
sealed. An accumulation of pus takes place
among the tissues of the head, and mostly
finds expression through the eyes, which often
become bulged. Whilst internal medicines
are of little help, a one-grain dose of quinine
twice daily in a bolus of pollard appears to
benefit if given in the early stages. Syring-
ing out the nostrils and corners of the eye
w 'th equal quantities of peroxide of hydrogen
and water (if necessary twice daily) can
be recommended. (2) The principal symp-
tom is a bluish-grey, slimy membrane in the
throat and mouth of the bird With
diphtheric roup the health of the bird is
seriously affected, sometimes to extreme pros-
tration, and many die in the space of a few
days. This form of roup is apparently much
more contagious than the other, and there
are practically no outward symptoms as in
the previous kind. A pinch of flowers of
sulphur lightly dusted into the throat twice
daily is almost a specific cure, if taken in
time.
(1) At what age can a male apply for
Crown land in N.S.W.? (2) Can two or more
persons apply in their joint names for an
original holding? (3) Capital necessary to
acquire Crown land in the Jindabyne
( N.B.W-. ) district? (4) To whom should 1
apply for particulars concerning land avail-
able in that district? —1928.
(1) Over the age of 16. (2) No. (3)
The amount of capital required varies with
the class of country and the area applied
for. (4) Information Bureau, Lands Dept.,
Sydney; or Crown Land Agent, Court House,
Cooma.
What are the botanical names of (1)
bloodtvood, (2) box, (3) blue gum, (4)
flooded gum, (5) grey gum? (6) Title of
book dealing with the extraction of oil from
the various species of eucalyptus and where
obtainable? —ls99.
(1) The common red blood wood used for
house stumps, fencing, etc., in the Brisbane
district is Eucalyptus corymbosa. Brown or
white bloodwood, Eucalyptus trachyphloia,
also occurs here but is less durable. (2) The
Brisbane or scrub box is Tristania conferta.
The forest tree gum top box is Eucalyptus
hemiphloia. (3) Eucalyptus saligna. (4)
Eucalyptus propinqua in the Brisbane dis-
district. (5) Eucalyptus punctata. (6)
“Timbers and Forest Products of Queens-
land,” by E. H. F. Swain (9s. 6d.), obtain-
able from Q’land Provisional Forestry
Board, Executive Buildings, George-street,
Brisbane.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“C.0.D.”: Manure that is left in a heap in
the open loses fully half its fertilising vir-
tues in a few months. It should be pitted.
Liquid manure should be preserved as well as
solid, for it contains a large percentage of
perfectly soluble fertilising matter.
“Rington”: The Vic. Department of Agri-
culture recommends this stock lick: Mix
thoroughly 1 bag (1871 b.) salt, 621 b. ground
phosphate (or 931 b. sterilised bone meal), 141 b.
sulphur, 91b. sulphate of iron, 71b. Epsom
salts. Then dissolve in water 4oz. potas-
sium iodine and 4oz. manganese sulphate,
and spray this thoroughly over the mixture.
This lick may be added to ordinary rations,
or may be put in the paddocks in troughs.
“Specker”: A labor-saving device for use
in singling root crops has recently been
introduced into Europe and found effective,
although it might excite ridicule at first sight.
The worker rests his body on a broad belt
supported by a two-wheeled trolley, which
he pushes along as he crawls forward, both
hands being free for weeding and singling.
I'or planting seedlings of any kind no tool
is better than the ordinary builder’s trowel.
“Rington” : Devonshire cream has gone out
of fashion with the advent of separators.
Housewives who may not always have enough
milk to make it worth the trouble of put-
ting it through the separator will find great
satisfaction in following the old Devonshire
plan. Place the milk in shallow pans on
the stove, or float them in a copper of water.
The heating must on no account be hurried
and should take at least 30 minutes, the
temperature being raised to 175 degrees F.,
or until a uniformly wrinkled appearance
develops and gradually spreads over the
whole surface. Then put away in a cool
place.
“J. Point”: When a chick pips the shell it
has absorbed enough of the remaining part
of the yolk to keep it alive for at least 48
hours. If it is allowed to feed too soon, the
yolk remains to go bad inside it and set up
all sorts of digestive and other troubles.
Allow two full days to elapse, and then
give the chicks some ground charcoal and a
drink of water, followed after an hour or
so by some dry rolled oats sprinkled on a
clean board. If you’re not sure just when
the chicks were hatched, don’t worry. There
is not the least danger of their dying
of starvation for at least three full days
after they are hatched.
“Tedski”: The best time to commence
picking the tobacco crop is on a close, sultry
day, but not soon after rain. Wait until
the leaves turn from brownish yellow to dark
blue and become sticky. Sun-dry on the
ground for 48 hours, letting each side of
the leaf have about 12 hours’ sun. Pack
in a heap in a shed for sweating; cover
with grass or hay, and put sacks on the
heap with weights on them. Keep the air out
or mildew will occur. Feel the heap until
it is so hot you can scarcely bear your
hand on it, and then take the heap to pieces
and repack, putting the greenest in the
middle to secure even sweating. Dry in a
room where a draught can be induced,
hanging each plant or leaf separately. Let
them hang three or four weeks, and beware
of damp, or the leaves will become mouldy.
“Lily-Beale” : Every farmer should cure his
own bacon. Here’s a good way: To every
21b. of salt add lib. dark sugar and 2oz.
spice. Mix the whole up well and cover a
tub to the depth of an inch with the mix-
ture. Take out the ribs, backbone and the
top bones of the ham and shoulder at the
first joint. At each of these joints spread
a teaspoonful of saltpetre in, around the bone
at the joint. Cut the hams and shoulders
off to a nice shape and place in the tub,
covering well with the salt mixture. Then
place the middle pieces on them and cover
as before with the salt. After six days
turn them with skin-side up, covering with
salt as before. Leave for four days, turn
them again for a further four days, and
finally wash well and hang out to dry on a
warm days, peppering the meat-side well.
Two useful little booklets which may be
had for the asking on application to H. V.
McKay, Ltd., Sydney, are “Facts About
Fallowing” and “Profit in Peas.” The advice
as to fallowing is backed up by experimental
results from every State in the Common-
wealth, and the book about peas should be
useful in view of the rapidly increasing
popularity of this -crop for rotational pur-
poses and otherwise in Vic., S.A. and W.A.
“Lex”: Jack Frost prevented Eddie Wood
from carrying on his run of successes with
navel oranges at the Empire Fruit Exhibi-
tion in England this year. Every year since
the inception of the contest this young
Digger, who has his orchard at Murrabit
(Vic.), has taken the championship gold
medal and has sent his fruit to Buckingham
Palace afterwards. He is now trying to
beat South Africa in the Valencia section,
and has secured the help of an Italian from
South Italy to give him hints before next
year.


t&ffe>P SjfaftJ^fetiggSvj
l; .:*?• i y^*. J i ;.;• »i v&p ••AvwiVP
c?\.v,
&?V
& v;
%
.'. --;. % j
ffi
‘ I
K
You pay no more for Goodyear
Tyres and Tubes, made in
Australia, than for any other
make.
.
V. \
Ask your Goodyear Dealer
for a demonstration on his
Supertwist cord-testing
machine.
REASONS WHY
GOODYEAR TUBES FIT SNUGLY
LOOK BETTER AND WEAR LONGER
BUILT-IN Valve Patch —with the valve patch
vulcanised into place, Goodyear Tubes have
strength where strength is needed.
Steam Vulcanised Splice —Goodyear Tubes are
vulcanised at the splice, ensuring perfect union. No
slow, ruinous leaks can set in.
Circle Shaped —Goodyear Tubes conform naturally to
the shape of the cover. No wrinkling—no pinching.
Red, Lively Rubber —made from materials of the finest
quality, Goodyear Tubes give long and satisfactory wear.
Uniform Thickness —because they are built uniformly
thick, Goodyear Tubes are uniformly strong.
Tested Under Water —every Goodyear Tube is inflated
and tested under water. A leaky tube cannot pass
such rigid inspection.
Carefully Packed— wrapped in waxed paper and packed
in two-piece boxes, Goodyear Tubes reach you in
perfect condition.
e


INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
23.
POUNDS OF PENNIES
‘Take care of the pennies, and the pounds will take care of
themselves.” There is more in that old saying than perhaps
you realise. Pennies are more easily come by than pounds;
they are more easily saved, for a penn orth of self-denial is
easier to practise than a pound’s worth at a time.
Think it out —better still, try it out —the steady, sincere saving
of the small coins; the practical appreciation of the small
things and their cumulative value.
Turn your pennies into pounds by the aid of a Commonwealth
Savings Account and the 4 per cent, per annum interest it pays.
fcionwcaltb Savings Dank of Australia
(i Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
EXTRA HIGH GRADE
<SMOM/NC TOBfleeO
7 its
ucxlit
1S
Unequalled
19 per 2oz Tin
SMOKE-OH!
The Chinese are hoping that Russia’s Red
troops will prove yellow.
if if
“Boasted of Love Affairs: Wife Seeks Divorce.”
A man who talks of his love affairs
should never let the cat into the brag.
if if
According to Deputy Labor-leader Theo-
dore, “to abolish Federal arbitration would
spell industrial disaster.” But then indus-
trial disaster could do with a spell.
if if
An American scientist warns women that
many cosmetics contain poison: So we still
have hopes of witnessing the death agonies
of the office sheik.
if if
TIIE CATCH.
Her pretty kitten’s way endears.
The solitary catch is that
After a■ few delicious years
The kitten will become the cat.
Percy P.
if if
“It is rare, nowadays, to see even an elderly
man wearing whiskies.” —Sydney News.
Modern men would as soon wear their
hearts on their sleeves as their whiskies.
if if
Miss Highbrow: “Are you interested in
Bach, Mr. Wayback.”
Mr. Wayback : “Er-er—wattle or dog?”
if if
“Thieves Pay Dr. Oraig Second Visit.”
: —Sydney Sun.
They intended to get their plunder in two
shakes.
tf if
If Adam gardened in these days
Of minus skirts and sleeves,
In Eden he would have to raise
Fig-trees with smaller leaves.
R.
A BUSINESS VIEWPOINT.
DAD: “I would drop that chap if I were you. He’s just
borrowed a tenner from me.”
SIS: “What, and let him spend it on some other girl!”
“He wiped himself with the trowel.”
—Sydney News.
That ought to have removed the rough
dirt anyway.
if. if
“Ahmed Low, a hawker, a native of India, was
fined £2.” —Sydney Sun.
Low, the poor Indian !
if if
THE LIGHT AHEAD.
“A wave of economy is sweeping over Canberra.
Members are rationed with pen-nibs, and no new
pencils are issued unless the stub of the old one
is returned.” —News item.
It brings the glad day a step nearer
when Australia’s Treasurer will confound
his colleague Gullett, spifflicate the Opposi-
tion and cause the harassed taxpayers to
hail him as “Friend!” by announcing a
surplus of umpteen million pencil-stubs and
a crate of pen-nibs.
D. McM.
“Petitioner said respondent had slapped his face
on humerous occasions.” —Sydney News.
That’s carrying a joke too far.
LIFE’S CROSSES.
To be crossed in love is painful. The cross
on a cheque may stand between you and
wads of cash. Crossed eyes are unlucky, and
crossed animals are mongrels. Crossed legs
bring down racehorses; crossed love-letters
have cost men fortunes, and to be double-
crossed is annoying. But crossed ’phone-
wires—well, words fail me.
U. D.
My Baby car has baby ways,
For though it doesn’t prattle,
Its youth it otherwise betrays —
It alicays has a rattle!
Ric.
* #
THE TEST.
The small man with the shifty eye of the
professional process-server sidled up to the
herculean being on the Sydney ferryboat.
“I hear you’re a famous big-game hunter,”
he said.
“I should say so,” thundered the other.
“Was I not invited to Australia by a Bruce
Commission to report on and kill the most
dangerous animal in Australia’s political
jungle—the Billyewes? This after Earl
(‘Deadshot’) Page himself had failed, being
handicapped by an abscess. Of course,” he
admitted, “the Earl is not the man he was.
The deficiency,” and he tapped his pocket,
“becomes more noticeable every day.”
“Do you skin your victims?”
“Skin ’em ! Of course I do.”
“Well, start on that fat woman near the
funnel. Skin her of the fur coat she’s
wearing and I’ll give you a quid. She’s
ten instalment payments in arrears.”
3;
(ITT . . , , . .
He was always prating of his devotion
to the I lag. .He made money out of it. His
standard ot living, in tact.
CONCLUSIVE PROOF.
ADAM : “I wish I knew as much about
women as Tommy does.”
EVE: “Tommy! What does Tommy know
about women?”
ADAM: “Well, he’s never married one of
them!”
“The entire crew of a vessel trading between
New York and Palestine is Jewish.” —News item.
Abie seamen.
* *
THE DISMISSAL.
Mrs. Wheat-Rich flounced down the
avenue of flowering gums to the ornate gate
which offset the rabbit-proof fence, where
one of the local lads was making up to her
daughter. “Now then, young Fagan,” she
said, “be off with you, and don’t you come
carving your entrails on our gate again.”
HOW IT REALLY HAPPENED.
Jonah, a well-known Palestine Rotarian
and member of the Red Sea Anglers’ Club,
had aroused the suspicion of his wife on
more than one occasion—notably when, he
took his best silk pyjamas but no lines on an
alleged black-breaming expedition. Small
blame to the much-wronged lady, then, that
she should have ‘expressed the strongest
doubts when he told
her he had to go to
Nineveh for his firm
about the unpaid in-
stalments on a couple
of t.-p. chariots.
In point of fact he
went to Joppa and
took passage to Tar-
shish with the barmaid
from the Hotel Arabia.
It was here that
Jonah, so to speak,
Jonalied himself.
He was a bad sailor.
He had dropped most
of his money at the
Joppa pony races, hav-
ing been egged on to
match his wits against
the local fielders by
the assurance of a
Supreme Magistrate
that all racing men
were of the mental
age of five.
The barmaid, re-
pelled by his lack, of
business acumen and
of cash, and his habit
of being sick in the
cabin, threw him over-
board with the connivance of the captain.
The captain, in addition to being supersti-
tious (a failing which caused him to blame
Jonah for the usual monthly strike of the
stewards, firemen and deckhands), had fallen
in love with the barmaid.
Jonah found himself cast up on a strange
shore, and was beginning to envisage divorce
and the sack when he saw a Morning Nuis-
ance reporter approaching. He told the lad
his now classic story about the whale.
The Nuisance featured it (with plioto-
graph of a property whale, containing a bed-
sitting room in its belly, on the back page),
and opened a public subscription to send him
home. The response was generous, many con-
sidering his yarn reasonable by comparison
with the Treasurer’s efforts to justify his
Budget. ,
Among the unbelievers, unfortunately, was
the adventurer’s wife. “Jonah,” she said, as
she produced from his gabardine a forgotten
letter written by his late inamorata on Hotel
Arabia notepaper, “your stories get more
improbable every day.” And so saying the
incensed matron smashed the tribal wash-
pot over his abashed head, and went home
to her mother.
H. M.
THE INDISCRETION.
I took her hand,
And it was nice.
You understand —
I took her hand,
And it seemed grand.
Cards is my vice.
I played her hand,
And, paid the twice.
GRIN.
“KICKED TO DEATH.”
SENSATION AT CANBERRA'S INTIMIDATION
INQUIRY.
Further evidence against the National
Union officials who are charged with con-
spiracy to intimidate was taken at Can-
berra to-day. Defendants are Napoleon
(“Basher”) Bruce (50), Rhadamantlius
Juggins-Page (62), and Caesar Augustus
Parkhill (55).
Kosciusko Hughes, a free worker employed
at the Canberra Leg-pulling Mills, said he
was passing the pickets outside their Union
rooms when he heard someone sing out:
“Come in with us! Be a man!” H’e recog-
nised the voice of defendant Parkhill. He
took no notice. There were cries of “Scab!’’
Defendant Bruce adopted a threatening atti-
tude with a golf stick and said: “This will
be your finish ! The Bligh-street Gang will get
you. North Sydney has seen the last of
you.” A former free worker named Bavin also
used threatening words, whereupon defen-
dant Page, who had been crying, dried his
eyes and said: “Good-oh,
Tom. You’ve changed a lot
since the days when you
were out of a job. You’ll do
us, lad!”
Counsel for the Union rose
to cross-examiue.
“Wliat wages do you
earn?”
“The basic political wage
of £2O a week—-work or not.
And perquisites.”
“How many hours do you
work?”
“The same as your clients
—about two months in each
year.”
“There has been talk of a
payment of £25,000.”
“I got that from the Bligh-
street Gang for organising
their Union.”
“Yet you ask us to believe
you are in danger from
them!”
“I repeated what their
leader said.”
Re-examined.
“You have said that you
saw defendant Page crying.”
“I did.”
“Kindly tell the Court
why.”
“He was holding a Budget
in his arms. He had been
giving it medical attention,
but it was senseless. I heard
defendant Bruce say it had
been kicked to death.” (Pro-
found sensation.)
(Proceeding.)
M. SAFRAN.
FAITHFUL NATIONALIST TO HIS
MASTER.
“Mr. Bruce, unlike bur dear old friend Mr. Uriah
Keep, is not a ‘very humble person.’ He stared the
interjectors out of countenance.
“The Prime Minister’s only reply was to raise his
eyebrow one-sixteenth part of an inch.”
—S. M. Herald’s Canberra correspondent.
My arrogant, my arrogant, that stands't
superbly there,
With your glossy clothes and shoes and
spats, and /'. O. Wodehouse stare!
Who can produce with such effect the bleat
of Vcre de Vere ?
Which of your foes can emulate your devas-
tating sneer?
They say that you will shortly crash, and
that all must confess
You've got the nation's business into a soiry
mess.
But have they one with half your knack of
silencing a foe
By giving him a lordly look? Emphatically
no!
So carry on, my arrogant > and, when
complaints grow loud,
Just raise an eyebrow haughtily, or stare in
silence proud.
It's easier than talking, and it makes the
faithful feel
The pride that comes of following a gent.
icho is genteel.
BOB IN.
THE COMEDIANS.
“Later, he rode up on horseback and attacked
me with a stockwhip. Although the whip left a
mark the blow was not very severe, and 1 just
smiled. I took it all as a joke.” —Witness in Sydney
Divorce Court.
“Bill is like me—a great humorist,” said
Jim. “That day when he knocked four of
my teeth out I laughed heartily. I’d been
meaning to go to a, dentist anyhow. Still, 1
wasn’t going to let him have all the fun.
I hit him on the head with a piece of iron.
Laugh! The onlookers nearly died. Bill
would have laughed, too, being, as I said, a
terrific wag, only I hit him a bit too hard.
“When he came out of hospital the first
comic trick he got up to was to push me
under a passing motor-lorry. That was how
I came to play my shot-gun joke on him a
month or two later.
“The chief beauty of Bill’s wit has always
been its unexpectedness. One night I was
lying in bed when the earth seemed to lift
THE DESPERADO.
ALCIBIADES: “Daisy, deah, I — ah — I’m going to kiss you now.”
DAISY: “Oh Alcibiades! You cave man!”
under me. There was a sound as if a planet
had hit the earth, and the next thing I knew
the wife and 1 were crawling out of the ruins
of our home.
“Yes, it was Bill again. I was so con-
vulsed that I had him arrested on a number
of charges, and now he’s in gaol. When lie
gets out he’s bound to effervesce again, but.
unfortunately for those who enjoy a good
laugh, it won’t he for fifteen years.”
PERCY PAWNTICKET.


a
M
+ 'Mr~.
wmmti
/ f/f/ '///////*//1::-:uf/y
mm
m
m
St ft!
Willi
////ill!
mini
Mini
iillliiliili
7 i I [ 1:11 jl
5! ijjjijjjj;
(‘iiliiiiS!!
iisr, :r
ksttc-
mmgmSF
'
sm
j| j 11 j | ijjj'ij
'::::! fcljt | jj
!il! IHilmi
8
'■WS
imm
an
air--
l ■HI
m
ill
issss:
ilil
iiii 11
i faiisi
111
/
i
■o
AROy
M
m
ml
■■ ■
LAIDL
m.
5,>55
m
MEt
sss
!SSK«B3
S?£VS
m
m.
SsSSSVS
'W> ;
>%v
t
I
vo
ww
9
S\\W
w\
wM
i
W” CWENTWORTn.
EM*
WARM
TRADE
Hardy’s
mss
champion RESERVE
[ PORT
OWN BOTTLING
=53
pMAS MARDV £ SONS LTO;p
FaIOE.MELBOURNE tSYDNEY
sOUTM AUSTRALIAN WlN£_
NET I PINT 6 FLUID OZS
aV^
m
■■MtdA rsi
HARDYS WINES OF
N TARA


Don’t risk infection!
m
m
m
■y
r
■X
X
<p-v°
2
a
«
W
<9^
ik
OvP
5-
■Cs'S-
C&
m
<s>/?,
<99
I 111
o<>
v'^C
//
<j> ©
W//////////M
A
\ k
v-
k-
vW'
*> N
I' i
\
rx
r€"
S I
\4 ou i
*
*V<-
r
FR ANCI§iSi
lending *»£
Oinimen* itKiwki***
friends. I°, , s houl»
onb f‘>Xt a « <» hat *
THE
rapid H6A.UW
lft- 5*
ROIU
B a b V NEVILLE
WII LMOTT. . ,
His mother writes \
Rexona Omtrnent
beyond comparison.
Every cut, every scratch, no matter
how small and unimportant it m y
seem is a possible source of mfeamn
that may lead to a serious trouble.
trXZZ ifwith Rexona.
Rexona contains a and
the most antiseptic, sootm g
healing properties known to science
It immediately destroys the harmfu
germs which may be present, and
!peeds the growth of a new, healthy
skin. If you suffer with ch PP
hands try Rexona-rub a little
frequently during the day, always
iter washing, and upon retiring
You will find that it keeps the
hands soft and supple.
Keep a tin of Rexona always handy-
in the home, workshop,
and use it for cuts, burns, bruises
and all the little daily injuries.


/-■/ / '
Mil H ■.
• J
~r
Cruising to
JAVA and
SUMATRA
First-class round fare to Belavvan
Deli (Sumatra), calling at Java ports,
Singapore and Penang: From Brisbane
and Sydney, £ 99; from Melbourne,
£lO5.
The K.P.M. invites you to wonder and wander in Java and
Sumatra, islands of exotic attractions.
Glorious days at sea, the comforts and conveniences of the
great Liners Nieuw Holland and Nieuw Zeeland will be a
delightful holiday for you.
The steamer is your hotel for the round voyage of seven weeks.
Full particulars from
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION COMPANY
(K.P.M. Line),
255 George Street, Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., 11l William Street, Melbourne; Dalgety & Co., Brisbane;
Elder, Smith & Co., Adelaide and Perth.
f\y.§
< SW\
m
rvv
>
sir
Hand-forged
from solid bars
of special steel
Kropp Razors are made at Sheffield, England,
by the world’s most expert craftsmen.
Made so well that every Kropp always has
a keener, finer cutting edge than cast steel
or machine-stamped razors. Kropp means
day to day comfort in shaving
for the rest of your life.
KROPP
never requires grinding
AVOID SUBSTITUTES:
Every ge .sine Kropp stamped “Made
and ground in Sheffield, England."
Individually tested, and fully guar-
anteed. Black, Ivory or Xylonite
handles. From the usual dealers.
Wholesale only: OSBORNE
GARRETT & Co.,Ltd.,
London, England,
fyariUQinfwLf
"Rameno” Brand "Merino-Knit” Cardigans and Sweaters are
snug-fitting and very comfortable to wear. They are knitted
from fine Australian Wools which give the natural warmth that
is so essential in protecting the body in changeable weather.
"Rameno” Brand "Merino-Knit” garments are beautifully
knitted, distinctive in style and colour, and altogether desirable
as an adjunct to the every-day attire of particular men.
"Rameno" Brand "Merino-Knit” Qarments
are made in Three Textures: Heavy-Weight,
Fine-Heavy-Weight, Light-Weight
i
*8
“RAMENO
BSANO
EimO-KNIT
"RAMENO" Brand
Cardigans &-sweaters
z
l
MADE EXCLUSIVELY BY
MERINO WOOLLEN MILLS
PTY. LTD.
COLLINGWOOD, VIC
Ask Your Mercer (or
"Rameno” Brand
"Merino-Knit”
Ca r d iga ns,
Sweaters,
Half Hose
v
1 •
m
M 37
■■
gM
'Always Fit
Pen and Picture
The
STATE
THEATRES
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
Shadow Shows
“Widecombe Fair” (Cjnema Art Films)
has for background the fairest parts ot
Devon, and, judging by the leisurely method
of narration, one of the oldest inhabitants
for producer.’ The plot, which is said to be
derived from the book by Eden Phillpotts,
concerns that good old. stage prop, the
mortgage held by the villain over the devoted
head of the squire of the village. There
is much bucolic humor and fun with a
ghost in a graveyard, while the story is
unfolded, with great deliberation, to th?
point where the squire’s goods are going to
be sold by auction. At the critical moment
an old chest is found stuffed with gold orna-
ments and diamonds, but instead of there
being a race to save the situation there is
a stroll to save it. Despite its lack of
dramatic interest, however, there is a warm
Englishness about “Widecombe Fair” which
extends to the principals. Marguerite Allen,
William Freshman and Wyndham Standing.
The film is silent.
“Weary River” (First National) is rather
on the weak side after “On Trial,” screened
at Sydney Haymarket immediately before it.
It is one of those part-silent, part-talkie, part-
lollypop-mixture movies in which, after long
BETTY COMPSON.
slabs of utter
silence, the
voice, of Dick
B a rthelmess,
Betty Comp-
son or some-
body else
breaks upon
the ear with
o ver power-
in g sudden-
ness. Also, it
is a miracle of
faulty charac-
terisation. It
is really won-
derful’ how
easily refor-
mation is
worked in the
screened ex-
ample of one
of Uncle
Sam’s idealis-
tic gaols. All
the old chief
has to do is
talk with a
halt in his voice, and lo ! gunmen and she-
gunmen lap up the milk of human kindness
overflowing from his motherly bosom. The
hero of the piece, a gunman who has been
“framed” by an opposition gunster and has
gone to gaol, is made by Barthelmess a
too-soppish creature who in the hatch finds
his soul—that is, becomes conductor of a
prison jazz-band—and on being released gets
into society—that is to say, is given a vaude-
ville job—with every chance of going straight.
‘'Convict” spoken out loud in his hearing
once or twice sends him back to the gang
again, and then his old flame has the pretty
job of re-reforming him. Still it is passable
enough melodrama, though the propaganda
favorable to Uncle Sam’s prison system, does
get a bit blatant.
“The Inseparables” (Warner Bros.) is a
silent film, and to see it The Bulletin’s
Melbourne man had to seek one of those
little theatres which still survive in the
more savage parts of the metropolis. Every-
thing seemed strange to him at first, so much
have the talkies become his daily pabulum.
It was queer to see a real live musician
climb from under the stage and wipe the
froth off his whiskers before sitting down
at the piano and groaning out Rachmani-
noff’s Prelude, as an indication to the audi-
ence to register profound emotion. The
picture was a glorious story of imperishable
love, the sort of love that will never take
the count from the hard facts of existence,
such as cutting the lunches for five school-
children before breakfast. It was a story
of love amongst the Alps with the rain pour-
ing down, the lightning flashing and the thun-
der crashing just a fraction too soon for
the gent, at the piano. A caravan is tear-
ing through the rain along a road that must
have, been specially built for the purpose,
so nightmarish it iooks clinging to the side
of a precipice. The villain and the girl are
fighting on the box-seat while the terrified
horses dash on to a bridge .which the local
shire-council has omitted to declare unsafe
for traffic. What with the weight of the
horses, the villain, the heroine and the hero,
who has just climbed aboard over the tail
of the caravan, the bridge collapses, but
quite soundlessly, the pianist having gone
below, maybe to get another. However, he
returns later, and the subsequent scenes of
vice and gaiety at Monte Carlo and the touch-
ing final fade-out of the hero and heroine are
suitably accompanied. “The Inseparables”
is quite a good example of its kind, and
Elissa Landi is a vivacious little actress.
There is a lovely fight in “Speakeasy”
(Fox) that ought to compensate millions for
not having been present at Thermopylae
Waterloo and the Somme. It concerns a
cultured young pugilist (Paul Page) who is
desirous of retiring from the game. Lola
Lane, a sweet young thing from a news-
paper office, however, is anxious to get. a
story for her journal, and she induces him
to carry on. Their acquaintance ripens
into love, and, inspired by her encouragement,
the handsome fellow prepares to risk his
good looks in yet another bout, on the
result of which, one gathers, the entire press
and people of the civilised world wait. Then
sinister parties who are determined that the
course of true love and stoush shall not
run straight come into the plot. They send
letters to the girl saying that the man is
ill, and vice versa. When the lady rushes
to her lover’s bedside she finds herself in
the crooks’ den. Meanwhile, lacking her
inspiring presence, the hero is in the prize-
ring being knocked sadly out of shape. Just
as the chances of her inheriting an irremedi-
ably remodelled husband appear particularly
bright, the resolute young female escapes
and makes a dramatic appearance at the
scrap. This so electrifies the hero that he
lets out a final wallop which sends his
opponent to the suburbs of Kingdom Come.
Then the lady clambers into the ring, amidst
thunderous applause, and smothers with
kisses the bloodstained visage of her pre-
destined mate. This is a talkie, in which
the action is particularly brisk. The glimpses
of how New York satisfies its unlawful
thirst are an instructive feature.
The Palette
An exhibition at the Macquarie Galleries,
Sydney, of paintings and a few drawings by
Basil Schoukhaeff has been chiefly interesting
because of the resemblance the artist’s style
bears to that of lacouleff, particularly notice-
able in a portrait of this brother-artist and
in the two large landscape drawings. One or
two of the painted landscapes incline towards
the wooden, but “Cassis,” a water-fringed
township nestling under a clouded sky, has
reality in it. More satisfying is “Hat and
Umbrella,” a girl’s large straw hat, green-
lined sunshade, cane-bottomed chair and
gloves arranged in a finely realistic design.
A tray of tomatoes is another good example
of success with unpromising material.
All the bad things English critics say
about the Royal Academy can be honestly
repeated regarding most of the exhibits of
British artists at the Sedon Galleries, Mel-
bourne. With the exception of a few
examples by Arthur Friedenson, Tom Mos-
tyn and one or two others, .the show is
the apotheosis of stodge, particularly where
the painter has a “Sir” in front of his name
and an “R.A.” at the end of it. If this dis-
play is representative it helps to explain
why the futurists have been welcomed by
the bored patron of art in the Cold Land.
“F.S.”: The Aphrodite statue, for which
the Felton Bequest paid £2500, has been
placed in position in Vic. National Gallery,
and astonishment can only be expressed that
the trustees got it so cheaply. It may be
a late specimen of Greek art, as averred;
but what does that matter artistically? The
head is strictly conventional, and the legs
have been badly restored, but the body is
entrancing. From whatever angle it is looked
at fresh textual beauties are apparent, and
the only sculpture one can compare it with
in the Gallery is the wonderful “Minerva”
of Rodin. The Aphrodite has been placed
between two modern English examples, and
it makes them look as dead as thrice frozen
mutton.
Frank Whitmore, who was responsible for
the striking page drawing which advertised
Wolfe’s Schnapps in The Bulletin recently,
has had honor thrust upon him —he is the
first artist outside Great Britain to get the
job of drawing the sprightly chap who stalks
through the J. Walker whisky ads.
“FjS.” : Craft bookbinding is almost a
lost art in Australia, but there is a man in
Melbourne who still produces work which
will stand comparison with the examples to
be seen in the National Gallery Museum.
He is Harry Green, who will spend a week
on a single volume, tooling everything by
hand and using his own designs, many of
which are of great beauty. There are still
booklovers who insist on their libraries all
near Tig the same uniform, and Green is thus
kept pretty busy. He is an old man now,
but his son is being trained to the ancient
profession.
“Nakhoda”: Australian buyers of antiques
are better protected against fraud than the
collectors of almost any other country. They
have only to ask for the certificate and guar-
antee of genuineness which should accom-
pany every article to be as safe as is
humanly possible, Under the amended tariff
law antiques are only allowed free entry if
they carry a certificate signed by indepen-
dent assessors who are appointed by the
council of the British Antique Dealers’ Asso-
ciation. This document has to be counter-
signed by the president and secretary. The
article is then sealed with the seal of the
association, and must be found intact by
the Customs officials in Australia, who also
employ an expert to examine the goods for
spuriousness. Most of the faked antiques
in this country are smuggled, like opium.
The Inky Way
With a fine array of contributors, includ-
ing Norman Lindsay, Walter de la Mare and
Sylvia Townsend Warner, Desiderata, sub-
titled “A Guide to Good Books.” has been
published by F. W. Preece and Sons., Adel-
aide, as a quarterly; price 6d. A slender
sheaf, it is neatly bound and finely printed,
and all interested in literature in Australia
will wish it success.
“Hamer” : When I met Boyce Bowden a
fortnight or so since he was full of the joy of
living; now he is gone where the good
writers go. Our acquaintance dates back to
days when, a tyro, he used to show’ me rhymes
almost grotesque* in their failure. AVhen he
had gained experience he made verses with
a fine fluency, and his best stuff is memor-
able. Sydney Sun, which last employed him,
said he was a Maorilander, but he was really
a Parramatta native, a nephew of Bowden.
M.H.R. He published three collections of
verse, mostly printed originally in The
Bulletin.
“N. Quad” : One of our oldest Inky Way-
farers is John R. Tindall, 60 years a printer
and for 26 years editor of the Thargomindah
Herald. Forty years ago Patsy Leahy had
the Herald, and his brother Janny was the
king of Western Queensland. An optimist
of the period styled Thargomindah “the
Chicago of the West.” But the clearing of
the mulga liberated the soil, and the ever-
lasting winds blew it away in dust. The
old town has long been under the blight of
Kidmanism. Yet Tindall stays, and brings
out his paper, with the usual quantum of
Thargomindah dust self-mixed with the ink.
And Janny, who was member for Bulloo, and
Patsy, who was member for the Warrego
themselves are dust.


OF
C
WILLYS
OVERLAND
J.
A
&
>
ptmn
/
o
Whippet
\
FOURS and SIXES
w 'm
V
rr\
s /
M
! \
<
iil
LJ
z
\
a
K
M
Whippet Four Touring
THE STYLE CREATION
of MASTER DESIGNERS
■f¥7lTH its longer bodies, graceful lines, harmonious colors, higher radiator, and
* * sweeping one-piece full crown mudguards the new Superior Whippet represents
superlative mastery of modern design and is definitely the style authority in its class.
Mechanically as well as artistically, the new Superior Whippet sets its own advanced
standards. A higher compression engine gives increased speed, livelier pick-up and
greater hill-climbing ability, as well as fuel con-
sumption at 30 m.p.g.—and more. Other important
engineering advantages include silent timing chain,
full force-feed lubrication, aluminium alloy invar-
strut pistons, big four-wheel brakes.
See the new Superior Whippet at your nearest
Willys-Overland dealer’s. He will be glad to
arrange a demonstration.
pt
'] r OlT r d(jr}S' cnav
•y±
New “Finger-tip Control”—a
single button, in centre of
steering-wheel, starts the
engine, operates the lights
and sounds the horn.
WHIPPET FOUR
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LIMITED,
62-70 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LIMITED,
173 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
OVERLAND (VIC.) PTY., LIMITED,
117-21 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
E. G. EAGER & SONS, LIMITED,
Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, Brisbane.
ADAMS’ MOTORS, LIMITED,
442 Murray Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LIMITED,
53-63 Bathurst Street, Hobart.
NEW SUPERIOR WHIPPET FOURS AND SIXES.


INS
>1
Vli'
The Finest Gun Dogs
In England
are fed regularly on Ken-L-Ration, the
dog food supreme. Rich in food value.
FREE—Sample Tin sent to any address
in the Commonwealth.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from
W. C. SCHWAB
P. O. Box 1821, Melbourne
fe-T -Ration
AUSTRALIA’S BEST.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA'S BEST BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” Whisky
MELLOWED BY AGE ALONE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LTD., Redfern, Sydney.
12
W. W. GREENER
GUNS
For Quality,
Durability,
Price.
W. W. GREENER, LTD.,
BIRMINGHAM.
Wholesale Australian Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.,
405-07 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, C.l,
Catalogues on application.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The crowd at Warwick Farm on Saturday
was one of the largest ever seen there. Its
size took the officials by surprise, and there
was a shortage of racebooks (some changed
hands for 55.), while tote officials hadn’t
finished paying out after a race when the
next had become history. The day was dis-
astrous to backers of odds-on favorites, three
of which went down. One of them was Gar-
rula, whose bookmaker-owner is showing poor
judgment in racing him over the sticks —
he is a poor jumper and will probably end
by breaking his neck—when, well placed,
the son of Lanius could win Welter after
Welter in the suburbs.
Six or seven horses were backed for the
Campbelltown Handicap, Killarney, firming
from sixes to fours, being absolute favorite.
He was in a good position from the starr,
and, rushing him between Margarethal and
Luita in the straight, McCarten landed
him a winner by a neck from Paganelli (7
to 1), who came late on the scene and
finished fast. Sir Ohrystopher (5 to 4) was
a poor third, and Luita fourth —she looked to
he interfered with by Killarney. but it may
have made no difference to the result. Kil-
lurney ran the six furlongs in the fast time
(for the Farm) of lmin. 12 : }sec., and is now
one of the favorites for the Epsom, in which
he has Bst. 111 b.
Holdfast’s price for the Hobartville Stakes
was 7 to 4 on, and it was not warranted
either by performance or weight of money.
Wren backed his Tippler—Tehama gelding
Toper confidently at sixes, and had the
satisfaction of seeing him outstay the favor-
ite and beat him by half a length in lmin.
27sec.—a course record for seven furlongs.
Holdfast might have done better if McCar-
ten had let him go to the front instead of
pulling him behind the pacemakers; but
Toper was doing a bit the better at the finish.
The good-looking Pentheus (25 to 1) was
a fair third; Gay Ballerina and Goldminer
again disappointed. Derby candidates that
looked well were Comanche and Cathmar,
and both may turn the tables on Toper in
the A.J.C. classic.
There was nothing wrong with Mollison
when he came out to do his preliminary for
the Warwick Stakes. He looked fit to run
for a kingdom, and again McShortodds de-
manded 7 to 4. But Limerick was notice-
ably brighter in appearance than when
E. M. Pearce’s gelding conquered him in the
autumn, and many accepted the 5 to 1 on
offer; others took 6 to 1 Aussie, reckoning
that his Australian form must be all wrong.
Mollison was soon in front, with Parkwood
trailing him, and he seemed to be going
easily as they turned into the short straight.
But Limerick (always well up) was soon
at him, and amidst cheering that must have
been heard at Liverpool the old horse soon
settled the young one, going on to win by
three-quarters of a length in lmin. 38isec.
So H. A. Knight’s champion is as good as
ever at a mile or a mile and a quarter, and
he has now earned just on £40,000 in stake-
money. Winalot gave the pair a long start
from the seven-furlongs post and did well
to get within a length and three-quarters
of Mollison. But he was not going as fast
over the last 50 yards as Phar Lap, who
put up 31b. overweight and ran a close
fourth, beating Aussie, Reonui and Black
Duchess. He is a solid chestnut gelding by
Night Raid-—Entreaty, and will have to
be reckoned with this spring. Parkwood
also shaped creditably.
Tidal (9 to 2) won the Spring Handicap
like a good horse, and has now become favo-
rite for the Metrop., in which he has 7st.
21b. Like Toper he was ridden by
who will presumably have the mount in the
Metrop.—there is no better boy in Sydney
at the weight. Tarapunga was a good second
to Tidal, aud this spare bay—he is by David’s
sire Baverstock out of a Buckwheat mare —
has no mean Metrop. chance, as he evidently
can stay. Stormy was third ;■ Spearman, a
nice style of horse by Spearhead—Scream,
was ridden into the ground, and Inducement,
the favorite, apparently requires more room
than Warwick Farm affords—anyway, he
was never dangerous, Marsden, who owns
and trains Tarapunga, was compensated in
the Glenlee Handicap; his charge Percep-
tion bobbed up at 10 to 1.
% ij: * *
For Canterbury Park on Saturday:—
Canterbury Stakes: Margarethal; next,
Paganelli.
Flying Welter: Black Douglas; next,
Factor.
September Handicap : Lord Kennaquhair ;
next, New Sweet.
Campsie Handicap: Gipsy King; next,
Bavacre.
* * * *
•Tack Holt, who has the biggest bunch of
Victorian spring candidates, withdrew High
Syce from the Aspendale Park Handicap on
Saturday and made Second Wind the stable
banner-bearer. Incautious fielders commenced
by offering 6 to 4 againt the gelding from
Groperland, but they didn’t lay much at the
price. Ultimately Second Wind came to
11 to S on. He ran like a hairy dog. At no
LISTENING-IN.
“Wait on, Bill — let’s ’ear ’im get this one out."
stage did he put real heart into his galloping
and he finished a miserable fifth in the poor
time of 2.10 for lj- miles. Cave King deprived
Elarby of control at the home turn, but
Waicullus (Bob Lewis up) wore him down
in leisurely style and scored by a neck. Holt
was powerless to explain the form of Second
Wind, whom he regarded as unbeatable. Quite
evidently the chestnut is a long way from
being another Eurythmic, but let it not be
assumed that he is as bad as the Aspen dale
defeat suggested.
Waicullus, whom Jack O’Dwyer trains,
was a 10 to 1 pop. Other surprise victories
were those of Gudroon (Hurdle Race), Glaive
(Three-year-old Handicap) and Mahatma
(second division of the Purse). Gudroon
started at 12 to 1, Glaive at 20 to 1 and
Mahatma at 15 to 1. However, though four
outsiders rolled home, MacShortodds wept
over Brockwood being backed down to 5 to
2, Easby to 7 to 4 and Ithuriel to 7 to 4 in
their respective races. Gudroon, bred in the
purple—he is by All Black from Georgia—
spreadeagled the Hurdle field, which was
whipped in by King of Pyalong, about whom
the cramped odds of 9 to 4 had been accepted.
Quotations on the Three-year-old Handi-
cap were headed by Clarius, who had com-
peted amongst the elite in the Underwood
Stakes at Williamstown. Possibly the Claro
gelding might have done, better if he had
made the home turn without losing ground.
Glaive, piloted by little Wally Hoysted.
whose father trains the Spearhead filly,
slipped through on the rails and won by a
substantial margin from Paquin, wth Clarius
third. Much money went west over Ray of
Hope, a Treclare gelding which Lou Robert-
son trains. Frank Dempsey never is happy
when drawn near the rails. Ray of Hope
was squeezed at the start, and his supporters,
realising that Dempsey was seeking the
nearest safety-zone, kissed their cash good-
bye.
Brockwood, winner of the Aspen dale Plate,
came into the possession of James Scobie
under the will of the late Sir Rupert Clarke ;
Scobie leased him to George Chandler, an
old-time trainer. After disputing favoritism
with South Austra, the chestnut firmed from
sto 1 to half those odds. He had no diffi-
culty in accounting for Kaoota arid Pamona
—Pamona will be earning her oats before
long. Easby, who took the first division of
the Purse, is a brother to Easingwold, and is
owned by Ted Fisher, who trained Easing-
wold when that celebrity first came over from
Westralia. Just turned four years old,
Easby should be heard of in better company.
Second section of the Purse went to Mahat-
ma, jointly raced by Tom Davies, owner of
Sea Money, and R. T. Paterson, who did
so well a few years ago with Roisel. Pur-
chased as a yearling at a four-figure sum,
Ithuriel credited V.R.C. committeeman E.
Manifold with the Welter Handicap, and
enabled Cecil Godby to make a belated re-
entry into the ranks of winning trainers.
* * * *
For Caulfield on Saturday:—
Memsie Stakes: Albanian ; next, Highland.
Heatherlie Handicap: Limber Up; next,
Parsee.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Jim Mollette, the colored American welter,
believes in getting the work on hand
over as quickly as possible. At Sydney
Stadium on Saturday night he made a hack
of another local production, .Timmy Allan,
whose jaw came into contact with the busi-
ness end of a weighty left hook, which
dropped him like a log just as the bell ended
the first round. Allan regained his senses
and the perpendicular during the minute’s
spell, but was so obviously gone to the pack
that Joe Wallis stopped the business, and
crowned Mollette. •
s’: sjc
Pesek (13st. 71b.) handled Bantel (13st.)
with care during eight rounds of mat won;
at the Melbourne Stadium on Saturday night,
lie allowed Ad to do most of the attacking,
and was trapped into the dreaded short-arm
scissors near the end of the fourth round.
Bitter is hardly the word to describe
the disappointment of the crowd when
the bell robbed Ad of an apparently certain
fall. John spurted up sufficiently over the
concluding rounds to take a narrow and
hotly-disputed points’ decision. San tel must
have improved a lot since he was pinned
twice in 13 minutes by the m ; "hty John in
America.
Footbrawl
Only the Melbourne-Collingwood game
counted in the scheme of things in Vie.
League football on Saturday, wherefore a
mob of 41,316 parted up £1245 to see if Mel-
bourne could squeeze into “the Four” by
defeating redoubtable Collingwood. It
couldn’t. In r fact, it. never had a hope.
’Wood scored two to one from the start, and
in the third quarter ran clean away, finishing
with 14 goals, 12 behinds to Melbourne’s 5
goals, 10 behinds. It was a fast, open, spec-
tacular game, and up to half-time there was
a hope of Melbourne staging one of the
finishes that have put it into finals before
to-day. But Melbourne is not the team it
was a few seasons ago, while Collingwood
is better: more methodical and more assured.
So Carlton meets St. Kilda next Saturday,
and then Collingwood faces the Richmond
Tigers- The winners will play off, with
the odds heavy on Collingwood. Of the others
Fitzroy thrashed Essendon —84 points to 53;
Geelong outed Richmond with 82 points to
42; St. Kilda downed Footscray with 76
points to 42; South Melbourne notched 88
points to Hawthorn’s 71; and Carlton raked
in 62 points to North Melbourne’s 56 in a
game wherein skill was replaced by .brute
force and casualties were plentiful.
* * * *
Finishing much the stronger, Western
Suburbs beat Northern in the final of the
N.S.W. Rugby Union first-grade competition
at Sydney Cricket Ground on Saturday, the
wearers of the black and white getting home
by 18 to 9 —4 tries, three of which Stewart
converted, to 2 tries and a penalty goal.
Botli sides were in deadly earnest, and gave
little away, so that, save for occasional bril-
liant flashes, the game could not be called
attractive. Tackling was very hard, but in
spite of that there was no rough stuff, aud
both sides kept their tempers admirably
in trying circumstances. North was far
below earlier form, both forward and back,
and showed signs of staleness. Early in the
second half the Shoremen came with a great
rattle, scoring two tries in quick succession.
It was a dying kick, however, and West’s
counter attack put the issue beyond doubt.
Waratah King was in rare fettle among the
Western backs. Both sets of forwards
played great football, with the Maorilander,
Pick Rang, once more figuring conspicuously
in the Shore vanguard. This is West’s first
win for 27 years, while no North-side club
lias yet collected the blue ribbon.
sjs * # *
The last round of the N.S.W. Rugby
League competition on Saturday decided the
four clubs to meet in the semi-finals, South
Sydney tackling Western Suburbs next, while
Newtown and St. George will be the other
pair. At the Sports Ground, a revivified
South Sydney put it all over Newtown, the
minor premiers finally running out victors
by 24 (6 tries. 3 goals) to 8 (2 tries and
a goal). Wearing showed a return to his old
form among the Southern backs, while the
team generally was miles above its form of
the last few matches, mastering Newtown at
all points. North and Glebe drew 24-24 at
North Sydney, where the home side has not
been beaten this year, and with Eastern
Suburbs, beaten 25-14 by Western, and Uni-
versity (a bye) now vanishes from the pic-
ture for the season. Balmain was another
to be pushed through the window, St. George
comfortably walloping the watersiders by
15-7. Of the outed clubs, North Sydney is
fifth on the list with 19 points. Then come
Balmain, East, Glebe and University.
(Continued on page /ft.)
By a unanimous decision of the N.S.W.
Full Court, dog-racing at Mascot and Harold
Park courses near Sydney has been declared
distinct from coursing within the meaning of
the Act of 1912. Betting is there-
fore illegal. The Court ruled that the
substitution of a live hare for the mechanical
device did not make any difference between
the present case and that which resulted in
the mechanical hare being banned as a bet-
ting medium. N.S.W. was the only Aus-
tralian State which permitted dog-racing to
continue for long after its introduction.
That reproach has at last been removed.
* $ * *
“Aileron”: It is probable that the world
will see no more air races for the Schneider
Cup. Two Italian airmen have been killed
on trial flights, and as postponement is im-
possible only one Italian craft has been left
in to give the British entry a race. France
has withdrawn completely, while the American
machine, in spite of numerous efforts, has
not been able to leave the water. It is
doubtful whether these freak machines serve
any useful purpose. They require, with their
small wing area, tremendous speed to keep
in the air at all, and this puts them out of
court when coming to roost on anything but
water.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Ernie Bean, who has just
resigned from the North Melbourne C. C-,
a resignation involving his departure from
the councils of the Victorian C. A. and the
Australian Board of Control, was a mighty
fighter in the cause of clean cricket. With
Harry Rush, also of Victoria, he was in
the forefront of the battle which ended in
the establishment of the board. That he
was not loved by the little coterie out of
whose hands the conduct of international
cricket was taken was only natural, and
he and his confreres from the other States
had to put up with a good deal of abuse and
misrepresentation, in which a section of the
press was not ashamed to join. A member of
the Board of Control since its inception,
Bean was for years lion. sec. of the V.C.A.
and later its treasurer, and was several
times an Australian selector.
THE BOOKMAKER’S SEASON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The streets are rich with the scent of flowers,
The trees are budding and burgeoning;
And lots of us vision radiant hours
As we note the signs of the waking spring.
And nobody more, I’ll bet a bob,
Than the good old odds-intoning mob,
Nobody welcomes it like-the Ring.
The poet warbles in artless glee
Of verdant meads and of purling brooks;
The punter wakes from his lethargy
And for something good in the Cups he
looks.
Whence none such benison bestow
On the merry springtime as Ikey Mo,
Nobody welcomes it like the books.
Soon dell and glade will be glad once more
With notes that the feathered songsters
yield,
And crowded lawns with a louder roar
Than ever a deep-toned organ pealed,
The madrigal and the roundelay
Of blokes who bellow and boom and bay
And howl to Heaven tliey’H lay the field.
With the green below and the blue above
She comes in beauty, the gracious spring,
The bounteous season all folk ,love.
For the gifts and guerdons they trust she’ll
bring:
And none, I'll bet, with so rare a glow
Of expectation as Ikey Mo,
None looks for a harvest like the Ring.
N.s.w.
IFORD.


DELICIOUS FLAVOUR REX QUALITY AUSTRALIAN
7
V
r &
J
A. Wi
(
V i:
Co
QJ
IB
as
H
wmimwM
"Ws^iiSS
Lp£
A soup delicious to the taste
and full of goodness
When you lift this refreshing, wholesome soup to your
lips, you find all the splendid quality for which REX Pure
Foods are famous, and all the delicious flavor and
goodness of pea soup par excellence.
You enjoy it thoroughly. How easy, too, for the
housewife —delicious soup ready at any time, simply
prepared according to the easy directions on the label.
REX Pea Soup, and four other kinds of soup —Rex
Consomme, Rex Vegetable, Rex Ox Tail, Rex Mulliga-
tawny —are the latest addition to the long list of choice
REX Pure Foods, made in Australia, by Australians, for
Australians.
In lib. and £lb. cans.
REX PEA SOUP
To be certain that you get the Australian Soup with the fine flavor and quality, always say REX.
FOGGITT JONES PTV. LTD.
(Division of United Provisions Ltd.)
Curers of the Choice REX Hams and Bacon.


BEFORE tk SNOW
GOES -
GOTO
YU GOVT TCLRIST BUREAU
QUEENS WALK- MELBOURNE
oq UAPTIM PLACF SYDUFY
Will GLADLY APRANGE ALL DETAILS
Don’t Lose What You’ve Got
The future is uncertain. Numerous companies are
showing greatly-reduced profits.
Prices of many investments have fallen.
The wise man will watch his little lot.
You may have everything in insurance policies. All
the more reason to see the offices are sound. There
are offices that are not sound.
The leading Australian authority on all these
matters is
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6. From news-
agents, or “Bulletin” Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
- Adelaide, Perth.
‘Wjii
POES
SAVE
PETROL
Wholesale Agents and Stockists:
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
284 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Gert'. u lt will soon be wkrm
ENOUGH FOR SURFING,
BERTIVeS, BUT I FOUND IT RATHER
NIPPY THISMORNiNQ.
GrEC?T •/' WHAT * THE SEA, ® '
g>EQT *. " MO, MV SH/WINGt Y4*CTE:R,”
Footbrawl
-Old Q.’ : The rift in the loot grows daily
wider in Queensland League football circles,
and feeling is not improved by the frantic
efforts of the N.S.W. League to butt
in. Though it has already been told
to mind its own business, the N.S.W
body is again hovering tearfully in
the offing with suggestions of a. con-
ference between the factions. To this the
Q.R.L., as official State organisation, has
retorted that it will consider the matter if
the Brisbane R. L. applies for affiliation, it
being at present an alien body of which the
Q.R.L. takes no official cognisance. The
B.R.L. reply was positively rude, so there the
matter rests for the present.
* H: * *
“Gate”: The Australian Rugby League
footballers have cast up in good condition
in England, and open their programme of
32 matches on Saturday against _ Rochdale
Hornets, once a famous Lancashire Union
club. The side will play three Tests: at
Hull on October 5. at Leeds on November
9, and at Swinton on January 4, the idea
of playing one of these matches at Wembley
having been abandoned. A great deal of
interest is being taken in the opening
matches, for considerable doubt exists "in
League circles in N.S.W. and Queensland
as to the calibre of the side.
* # $
“Gnash”: The feud raging between the
N.S.W. country football leagues and the
parent body in Sydney has its humorous
aspects. Recently the harbor-side panjan-
drums ruled that a cup—originally presented
for Union football, by the way—should
be handed over by the holders, Cootamundra,
to .Tunee, the Cootas. having been guilty of
some letise or another. Now the hatreds of
Montagu and Capulet were not a circum-
stance to the loathing of Coota. and
Junee for each other, so the former handed
over the cup as requested, with a “rider.”
This was a placard hung to the utensil, and
it read: “R.1.P.: the Maher Cup. Killed by
an infamous decision of the N.S.W. Rugby
League.”
* $ :}c $
“Stoush”: Western Queensland hasn’t a
monopoly of riotous football crowds (B.
14/8/’29). Recently during a “friendly
game” between a couple of Sydney clubs of
unimportant calibre, a misguided supporter
of one souvenired some beer belonging to the
other. At half-time he made an attempt to
escape in a car. A squad of avengers pur-
sued in another car, and, having captured the
offender, dealt with him faithfully and re-
turned in triumph with what was left of the
beer. There were subsidiary battles and
casualties, including one broken jaw, but
these must be passed over for space reasons.
$ $ $ si:
“Amateur Pro.”: There was a flutter of
excitement in N.S.W. Rugby Union circles
last week when it was discovered that the
international three-quarter Cyril Towers
had been playing League football with the
State Government Savings Bank team in a
private competition. The question was raised
as to whether this was not an act of pro-
fessionalism. The N.S.W. Rugby Union
authorities have declared it was not, since
the matches are private affairs with no gate
money taken, while the various clubs taking
part are not affiliated with the Rugby
League. That may be, but the Rugby Union
law r on the subject makes no allowance for
these excuses. According to sub-section G
(6) of rule 2, to play in any match where it
is previously agreed that less than 15 players
shall take part is an act of professionalism.
The rule either stands or does not. The
Union cannot have its cake and eat it.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: Though he failed to gain
representative honors for N.S.W. this sea-
son, Mick Stewart, of Western Suburbs
Rugby Union club, is admittedly in the front
rank of Australian full backs. He is probably
the best exponent of the seldom-used drop-
kick playing in the State, while he is just
as good off the ground. In a recent game
against Randwiek, on Sydney Cricket
Ground, Stewart electrified the crowd with a
placed goal of extraordinary length. The
tape was put on and recorded 68 yards 2ft.
E. Doyle place-kicked a Rugby ball 74 yards
11 inches in Dublin in 1903, while a Sydney
player, J. Angus, recorded 71 yards 2ft. in
Sydney some years earlier. With the Austra-
lian ball, D. Macnamara covered 93 yards in
Melbourne six years ago. For a drop-kick,
Norman Ebsworth, the giant N.S.W. for-
ward and wicket-keeper, holds the world’s
best with 69 yards 2ft.
s|t :!; *
“Botham” : The Victorian football authori-
ties have decided on alterations to the rules
Most interesting to the average follower of
the game is the decision to permit substi-
tutes for players injured up to three-quarter-
time. This is something entirely new, and its
adoption at this late day comes just as the
Australian and M.L. Rugby bodies are pro-
posing to abolish the practice, which has
existed for years under their codes. In
Britain, substitutes have never been per-
mitted by any football organisation. A pro-
posal to reduce the number of players from
IS to 16 a side was defeated by only 10 votes
to 8.
# * *
“Swan”: The Westralian Football League
decided last week to endorse the recommen-
dation of the Victorian and South Aus-
tralian bodies that the inter-State carnival
should be held next year in Adelaide. The
fixture had been allotted to N.S.W., but in
spite of protests from the Ma State League
the undertaking has now been finally with-
drawn, the Big Three evidently considering
the Sydney carnival not worth the candle.
That is quite right, of course, from a finan-
cial point of view, but fits in badly with the
often expressed desire of the Australian Rules
panjandrums in the south to spread the
light of the national code in the Eastern
States.
Racquet and Bawl
“Kooyong” : The last meeting of the Aus-
tralian tennis authorities decided to list the
next Australian championships for Mel-
bourne, to commence in the middle of Janu-
ary. It was also l disclosed that the balance
to the credit of the Davis Cup account was
£3lll. To this is to be transferred an
amount of £BOO from general revenue account
to make up for the loss on the last Davis
Cup tour, so that there is now close on
£4OOO available for the next Davis Cup_ chal-
lengers. What the association’s idea is in sit-
ting on this big sum and pondering over the
advisability of again challenging for the Cup,
only itself knows —and there is even doubt
about that.
... * * *
“Top Spin” : In these days when Australia
hesitates to challenge for the Davis Cup,
it may be as well to recall that this country
holds the honor —if one can call it that —of
having inflicted the biggest hiding in the
history of the tourney. That was in 1924,
when Gerald Patterson and Co. walloped
poor old China by 5 rubbers, 15 sets, 108
games to 0 rubbers, 0 sets and 15 games.
By all accounts most of the 15 were due
to Gerald’s double-faulting.
:j: * * *
“Baseline”: Australia heard of an old
friend the other day, when the cables an-
nounced the victory of Mrs. A. Robertson
in the Scottish hard-court championships.
As Esna Boyd, the Victorian collected many
championships, including those of N.S.W.
and Victoria, as well as the Australian title.
She now lives in Dunfermline, the historic
Scottish town where the King in the old
hnllod sot “hirlin°' the ,r ude red wine.”
ballad sat billing tne b uc.e reu wye.
“Cut Shot”: There are signs that Britain
i« nickin' l ' nn her sten in the matter of
tennis The P recent good showing by both
men and women at Wimbledon has. been fol-
i nw pj ] ,» nntohlc nlnv hv the English repre-
Stives°n S. P Ser b , y can e w?men'3 cham-
flS’ but by
Betty
lasted well through the piece. This is the
irresistible Helen’s sixth win in seven years,
and she only missed in 1925 because she
was too ill to play.
was too hi to piay. * *
“El Paso” • A hardy perennial is Claude
Butlin, an Englishman who collected
the championship of Mexico for 30 con-
secutive vears. When he was 50, Mexico
challenged for the Davis Cup, and the veteran
was the first man into the firing-line,
Recently he came to the decision' that he is
not quite as nippy as he used to be. and
has decided to devote himself to golf, at
which he has long been a plus-marker.
——
Tin* NineteeiitK
■h rGle -n el Adkaide ftlCfftte
fou?Lmes which had ended in a result
i?., a w m P Bulte who beat
title, W. J. Fowler and JLL Bulte, wno peat
Whitton and .Winger by four '
mg a brilliant round of <4 foi the 18 o
Fowler was amateur champion of Yictoi a
last year, while Bulte is one of the most pro-
minent of the many brilliant youngsters now
figuring in Melbourne
“Marino”: Victoria scored another blue
ribbon in the Australian golf championships
in Adelaide when young Mick Ryan, _of
Kingston Heath club, won the amateur title
from Sloan Morpeth by 2 up and 1. The
youngster played perfect golf, and his steadi-
ness in the close and exciting finishing stages
would have done Walter Hagen credit,
Almost as interesting as this meeting was
an earlier battle between Morpeth and the
open champion, Ivo Whitton. This went
to the 42nd hole, when the M.L, crack won
1 up. S. Aus. scored in the professional
championship with Rufus Stewart, and the
mixed foursomes went to the Tasmanian pair,
Len Nettlefold and Miss Barclay
* * • * *
The annual golf match between Sydney
and Melbourne Universities was played on
the Royal Sydney course, at Rose Bay, last
week, the home s'ide winning by six matches
to three. Sydney took two _ foursomes to
one, and four of the six singles played,
the most decisive victory in the singles
being eight up and seven by A. ,C. Dalzell,
of Sydney; Halley was the victim. _ Dalzell
was again successful in the Australian Uni-
versifies singles championship, decided over
36 holes by stroke play. Two fine rounds of
75 and 79 made his card total 154.
*** _ *
“Iconoclast”: To people like himself the
question “Why is golf?” is constantly recur-
ring. Only the other day an acquaintance
asked me if I really thought there was any-
thing in the game. The same surprised
comment has come from many quarters,
Smollett, himself a Scot, mused thus on the
game 150 years ago, in “Humphrey Clinker :
“I was shown one set of .golfers, the young-
est of which was turned fourscore. I hey
have resorted to this, pastime tor the best
part of a century without having relt tne
least alarm from sickness or disgust, and
none ever goes to bed without having eac: 1
the best part of a gallon of claret m his
belly.” Of course all that is changed nowa-
days. Very little claret is consumed at
the 19th in this year of grace.
“Kio Grande' : There is a good time
coming for American professional golfeis
an(J ovehj^g brethren who can raise
the fare to Mexico next year. A- ■huge golf
tourney is being organised for January at a
place rejoicing in tlie characteristically Mexi-
can name of M)ua
hot watei. luzes will total xouuu, anu
the reason for the
Si Sh a°t»SrgaTc V’IMjTS
&S 8&
* . fllQ
“Torrens”: The annual meeting, of ttt-
Australian Golf Union in Adelaide fixed ye
Metropolitan Clubs course, in Melbourne, as
the yen ue for the Australian championships
next year. Another attempt will be made
to entice a team of English golfers to pay
Australia a visit, and Len Nettletold, J. W.
Trumble and P. W. Pope were appointed a
sub-committee to conduct negotiations. Costs
of the visit are to be shared by the State..
Victoria and N.S.W. will
Queensland and South Australia 10 p.e.
each and Tassy 5 p.c.
* * *
“Cash Amateur’’: They bonny gates at
some of the big British golf matches. At
land'ancf AmcrfiTor “h?^£ C Cup ”£
tVllOOO l alreafJ'inTiand for pro°-
fessionals’ expenses in the Ryder Cup tour-
,, f anqtrsiliin conditions do not
permit "of similar" means of raising money,
rp be ordy way to provide funds for visiting
~ here is hv a lew on clubs and their
here is by on ‘ emos a c iz
in icecream? even
when the cash was wanted for a fund to
PS ,i i e nh ?^ e Sf n
solf clubs of N.S.W., and similai deserving,
opjects.
. „ T . ~ . lf
“The McHaggis’ : It is said that golf was
introduced to the English through the per-
tinacity of some Scottish golfers who drove
a ball across the Tweed and aroused
Sassenach curiosity by the thoroughness
with which they searched ior it, and tlie
jape is still levelled at the Caledonian
player. One of them got the laugh on his
side at Helensburgh links not long ago.
Searching meticulously for his lost pul, he
came on a wallet dropped by some affluent
player. It held £5OO in notes, and under
Scottish law the finder got 10 per cent.
* * * *
“Tulagi”: Most folk are more inclined
to associate the Solomon Islands with canni-
bals than with caddies, yet the latter widely-
distributed species is to be met with there
i n circumstances suited to its develop-
meut. A Sydneysider, recently returned, from
that region where every prospect pleases
and only the trade gin is vile, is enthusiastic
about a perfect nine-hole course he fell upon
somewhere in the shade of the sheltering
palms. There seems no reason why the
game should not flourish, and it should
even meet with the approval of the Adminis-
tration. One of the latter’s troubles lias
been to induce the natives to attempt a fair
command of the resources of the English
language. The writer respectfully desires
to call the attention of the Colonial Office to
the possibilities of golf in this connection.
* * * *
“Trevdee” : Charlton (Vic.) Golf Club is
one 0 £ j-jjg many noted for its ball-stealing
erowgj but a rival thief came to light there
recen tly. This was a pig, which strutted on
kbe green during a tournament game
an( j was SO p n being blasphemously pursued
by £ ke local plus-four because it had swal-
j owe( j bis ball. Query: What sort of a
hazard is a pig>
.
(Continued on next page.)


o
o
Blf
REGWEfI
w
s
Follow the advice of experienced motorists who
have proved B.E.S. Spark Plugs perfect under
all conditions. Equip your car and ensure
efficient ignition. Fully guaranteed. All garages.
Price 4/6.
Manufactured by
Australian Spark Plugs Pty., Ltd.
562 Spencer Street, Melbourne, C.l.
’Phones: F 4947, F 6961.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. ;
F. E, Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, thi9
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
GOLF SETS
Imported from the Heather Co., Scotland.
EVERY STICK GUARANTEED.
?
vs*VW
Special Matched
Sets,
Comprising—
BRASSIE,
MID-IRON,
MASHIE
PUTTER,
TAN BAG,
2 BALLS.
COMPLETE SET,
57/6
STAINLESS SET,
69/6
We pay carriage.
N.S.W. Sports Store, Ltd.,
26 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
ALAN KIPPAX, Director.
Car and Cycle
Kangaroo Ped”: While dwellers in Aus-
tralian cities are trying to devise means for
checking speed-hogs America is turning its
attention to making the pace faster than it
already is. An American automobile journal
recently noted with approval that a driver
had been fined for slow driving in Indiana,
r? “ s P eed ” being only 15 m.p.h. Rhode
Island, one of the obscurer States, insists
that on the open road cars must maintain 35
m.p.h. The idea is to prevent congestion of
traffic.
* * * *
“Ped” : In these days when even the heart
of the Sahara Desert is invaded by the
speeding motor-car it is regrettable to hear
of yet another sanctuary of the pedestrian
which has been thrown open to the modern
Juggernaut. This is—or are—the Scilly
Isles, those remote south-western outposts
of England whose inhabitants have substi-
tuted flower-growing for their ancient indus-
try of wrecking. Dorrien Smith, lord of the
manor, has repealed the ban formerly laid
on the motor, and the local citizen is now
learning to jump to the honk of the horn.
Sark, in the Channel Islands, is now the
only remaining city of refuge known to the
Writer.
* * * *
“Vil N.”: In England when a car has rat-
tled itself to pieces, one may call in the
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Cars, which send breakers to finish the job.
American owners are callous. They strip
and desert their poor slaves in the street,
until they are arrested for lack of visible
means of support. There is a story of one
Poor thing which escaped and wandered back
to its old home. The sight of a new mechani-
cal hussy installed in its former garage
proved too great a shock. Its carburetter
burst, and the street-cleaners had another job.
* * * * *
“Whizz”: The usual weekly motor-cycle
record has been perpetrated on the Continent.
This time it was the figure for the
flying kilometre that went, Herbert Levack,
riding a British machine, cutting the time
down to 17.7 sec. This is a considerable slice
off the previous best, 18.435ec., by another
Englishman, C. F. Temple, and works out at
about 125 m.p.h. Later in the day, Levack
cracked another Temple record, 120.5 m.p.h.
for the flying mile, which he covered at a
rate of 125.75 m.p.h.
* * * *
“Erka”_: Little is heard just now of motor-
cycle racing in Australia, but those riders
fortunate enough to be in England are mak-
ing the game pay. Frank Arthur has won
the English open championship, the Scot-
tish championship and the international
Gold Helmet since his arrival in England.
Other Australian riders are participating in
club and individual matches, and getting a
good deal out of it. American and Continen-
tal cracks give an international flavor.
Rivalry is keen.
* * # *
“Spoke”: The Goulburn to Sydney road-
race to be run on September 14 has drawn
78 nominations, including Hubert Opperman
and Percy Osborne, of Victoria, among the
professionals, and most of Australia’s lead-
ing amateurs in the lilywhite section. Opper-
man is on scratch with his fellow-Victorians
Harrington and Osborne, the latter the
holder of the record for the race, shr. 56min.
40 l-ssee., made in 1927. The limit mark
has been extended from 70 to 75 minutes,
and, provided the weather is suitable, previ-
ous records should get a shaking up.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: N.S.W. amateur J. L. Gould
put up a great performance in win-
ning the 100 miles Australian road-
cycling championship on the Great Western
Road, with the finish at Sherwood, just out-
side Sydney. The time for the run, shr.
9min. 32sec., was well behind the record of
4hr. 47min. 6 4-ssec*., put up by Fred Kerz,
of N.S.W., some time ago, but Gould led all
the way and stalled off a carefully judged
final sprint by Victorian W. McLaughlin, to
win by 39 seconds. The world’s best for
the unpaced event is Lauterwasser’s 41ir.
13min. 34 l-ssec., but that was done on the
perfect English roads.
Miscellaneous
“Ilotham”: An interesting innovation in
Melbourne is the Sportsmen’s Delegation,
members of which are to tour Britain next
year. Applications for membership must
be accompanied by a deposit on the steam-
ship fare, when a medallion certifying to
the sportsman’s bona fides will be issued.
Special arrangements will be made for mem-
bers who wish to see the leading British
sporting events —from the bowls and cricket
Tests to the Olympia Horse Show and the
Derby. The schedule does not include the
Shove Ha’penny championship of the North
of England, due at Bolton somewhere about
mid-July, or the All England Dog and Duck
tournament in the Minories a little later.
Otherwise the ground is fairly well covered
* $ £ £
“Tuck”: Sydney open-boat sailing-men are
already beginning to forecast the passing of
the eighteens, which are rapidly being sup-
planted by the smaller craft. Cost of building
and maintenance, which rang the knell of the
once popular twenty-twos, is the reason.
The skiff and dinghy classes are much
cheaper to acquire and run, while they do
not call for the large crews necessary for
the racing 18-footer. Few folk who have
not owned one have any idea of the running
costs of a crack sailing-boat, and every
year the price of sails, running gear and
accessories goes climbing to the sky.
* * * *
“Blue Chalk”: The Sydney match between
Willie Smith and Walter Lindrum, which
was abandoned in such unhappy circum-
stances, was by far the finest exhibition of
billiards ever given in Australia. Apart from
Lindrum’s Australasian record break of 2002,
and Smith’s two best breaks of 770 and 743,
the match was exceptional by reason of the
number of tliree-figure scores and for the
pace of the play. No doubt the method of
playing against time adopted in this series
is a vast improvement on the old style of
going to a fixed number of points; the
player has to go for the points all the time.
“Quarter Butt”: As a result of the aban-
donment of the Lindrum-Smith match, Smith
became automatically the holder of a trophy
presented by Sydney Sun. With fine sports-
manship, the Yorkshireman asked that the
trophy he given to his technically defeated
opponent. Apart from other considerations.
Smith takes the stand that Lindrum was
so far ahead of him, with only two playing
sessions to go, that he had no hope of head-
ing the Australian. A bit more of that spirit
in professional sport and games would
enhance the popularity of the games them-
selves and their exponents.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: South Aus. sportsmen are com-
plaining of the practice of shooting hares
from cars at night by means of the head-
lights, which dazzle the animals. Cars
carrying half a dozen guns go out on the
roads, and when the hare sits up, hypnotised,
it is callously potted. One joy-waggon was
noted returning with 100 hares, many of
them so blown to pieces as to be useless
either for sale or consumption by the shooter.
South Aus. is the last Australian refuge of
open coursing, wherein the hare does get a
fair spin. Followers of the ancient sport
are particularly bitter against the wanton
butchers, who have not even the excuse of
the pothunter.
* * * *
“Shell”: It is 16 years since Australia
had a representative in the Diamond Sculls
at Henley. Now H. E. Ricketts, of the
Glebe (N.S.W*) R- C., intends to enter for
the classic event to be rowed on the Thames
next July. A veteran as amateur scullers
go, Ricketts has won two State champion-
ships, those of South Aus. and Victoria. His
best performance in the Australian events
was fifth in 1925, when A. H. Cambridge won
for Victoria on the Yarra. The only sculler
representing Australia to win the Diamonds
is Cecil McVilly, of the 1913 vintage. One
F. S. Kelly, then in residence at Cambridge,
won in 1902-03-05, but though born in Aus-
tralia was never an official representative.
JAMES WALL, patron of the N.S.W.
Bowling Association, and one of the
heads of the game in Australia.
“Splash”: Martha Norelius (B. 28/8/’29)
made no mistake in her first shy at the
good money in American professional swim-
ming. The ex-amateur started a hot fav-
orite for the 10-mile Wrigley Marathon and
won, pulling up, from Ruth Tower. Her
time was returned as shr. 24min., which
seems astonishingly slow for a swimmer of
her performances ; still, the young woman col-
lected 10,000 dollars, so the pace shouldn’t
worry her.
$ $
“The Gaffer”: The Australian Athletic
Union has invited a team of American track
and field athletes to come this way for a six
weeks’ tour in January. It is hoped that the
visitors, will include Tolan, who recently
tied Paddock’s 10 2-ssec. world’s record for
100 metres; and Williams, the Canadian,
who holds the half-mile title for his own
country and the U.S.A.
* * * *
“Guff”: Isn’t it time supervision was
exercised over the watches which are put
upon the performances of some of these
swimmers and track athletes? It is not
once in a blue moon that a gentleman who
lias put up a swimming record in an Ameri-
can pool can get near it when he takes the
water in an alien land. Similarly the Ameri-
can track athlete who is capable of miracu-
JOE SCANLON, one of the oldest and. most
notable players in the South Mel-
bourne football team.
lous times in his own land rarely is able to
produce them in international company such
as that encountered at the Olympiad. There
is evidence that Australian watches are
imbued with the same tendency to linger on
the job. That way leads down to the pit
into which the last Australian Olympic
team fell. It found that most of its members
couldn’t run or swim nearly as fast as the
watches said they could.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The N.S.W. cricket authori-
ties are staging an unusual kind of cricket
tour in October. A Sydney team chosen by
the State selectors will leave the city by
motor-’bus and put in a week in the country,
playing at Bathurst, Parkes, Orange and
Dubbo. The trip promises to be much
more successful than previous country tours
made by rail, and the team itself will be
tne first to appreciate the new departure.
One of the objects of tlie tour will be the
testing of the turf wickets which some of
the centres visited have been laying down
with the assistance of grants from the
N.S.W. Association.
* * * *
“Richmond”: The annual report of that
flourishing institution the Melbourne C. C.
showed that the total receipts for the past
financial year were £40,525, after deducting
the balance of a loan made by the N. M.
Life Association. Expenditure was heavy,
including the building of new stands and all-
found replenishments and improvements. The
visit of the English team brought the club
in over £3OOO net, though this was somewhat
set off by the falling off in Sheffield Shield
attendances, which is always noticeable dur-
ing an English tour. Matters.being so satis-
factory, the authorities might now turn their
attention to providing decent press accom
modation. That available for the last Test-
match series was no credit to the club.
* * * *
“Aigburth” : The Imperial cricket confer-
ence in London has just completed the inter-
national cricket programme for the next
five years. Maoriland has been allotted a
tour of England in 1931, and the following
year will see the Afrikanders in Australia.
England’s next trip to this country will be
in 1933, and in 1934 the Australian XI is
due for another tour of the Cold Country.
India and the West Indies are also pro-
vided for. Apropos, Australians are still
waiting to hear of an invitation to visit
Australia being extended to the people whose
ancestors first bestowed rum on a grateful
world.
* * * *
“Bias”: The international bowls tourney
in Britain has ended with England, Wales,
Scotland and Ireland on the honor list in
that order. The series began in 1903, and
so far Scotland has won 13 times, England
7, Wales 2 and Ireland once. The coming
season will see Australian and South African
teams in action on the other side, with per-
haps Canada joining in, so this country may
yet have a chance of making up for the
cricket licking administered last season by
Chapman and his following.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Elsie Ghee”: Not only do we amazing
Australians buy Californian rivals of our
subsidised commodities, but we permit the
Yankee name to be inflicted on us. I took
home a packet labelled “seedless raisins,”
expecting the contents to be raisins seeded,
only to find I had not raisins at all but sul-
tanas. I don’t know what to ask for now in
order to get seeded raisins, but am expecting
Mildura to re-name its products to suit. We
usually dance to whatever tune San Fran-
cisco or Los Angeles pipes.
* * * *
“Dera”: What can be done with shark
products (B. 28/8/’29) may be seen, at
Sydney Tech. Museum. On view there is a
fine range of shark leathers and articles manu-
factured from them; the materials are of
great variety and beauty, while they are
durability itself. Australian gourmets need
not hesitate to include shark fin on the menu
—any good Asiatic cook knows how to serve
it. About the dried shark flesh I am not
so sure, but that is intended for the Malayan
market, anyway.
* * * *
“Boronia”: It is a wonder no commer-
cial use has been made of soapstone. The
stuff is so soft that a hand-saw or knife
will carve it to any desired shape. When
crushed it is as smooth and soft as Freneh
chalk; for this reason it is used for tyre
tubes by motorists who live in the vicinity
of an outcrop. Judging by the perfect state
of preservation of engraved blocks put into
buildings erected over 40 years ago, it is
impervious to the weather.
* * * *
“Prisms” : The first of the new Mountain
type of engines ordered for N.S.W. railways
was given a trial spin the other day; it
drew 1000 tons (half its maximum load)
at 40 m.p.h., and there were no hot boxes.
The Clyde works have a contract for 25 of
these giants, which are 230-tonners, and will
be the most powerful in Australia. They are to
be turned out at the rate of one a fortnight.
* * * *
“The Rumpus”: Once I took a job at a
vineyard which did a big trade. Carting re-
turned empties from the railway station I
noticed that two kegs rattled, and with much
care I extracted a small length of locomotive
gauge-glass from each. I bore my.find into
the office. The boss flung the two pieces into
a box in the corner. “Have a look at it,”
he suggested; and I found it half full of
broken gauge-glasses, brass and indiarubber
tubing. “Shows it’s good wine,” the boss
remarked with astonishing phlegm. “Those
railway blokes wouldn’t drink it if it wasn’t.”
:!: * * *
“R. Volt”: A form of advertising which
the outcry against the new taxes on amuse-
ments has brought into prominence is the
multiple telegram. At an absurdly low rate
a business man may send the same message
to almost any number of addressees in the
same town, the charge for the copies
being fivepence for every 50 words. The
department only needs to transmit the origi-
nal once, the message being reproduced the
required number of times at the destination.
Recently a Melbourne merchant with a
special line to sell sent out 1800 of these
wires and in a few hours got £3OOO worth
of orders.
* * * *
“N. 8.”: A little Australian in Maoriland
is more than paying for his keep. __Last
year opossum skins brought £157,000,
£76,000 more than in 1927. The animal
now is adapting itself to the exotic planta-
tions, and trapping in these areas will more
than pay the cost of periodical thinnings
necessary to development. The Forestry
Department from a small catch on one of its
plantations recently grossed £9O, which
showed a clear profit of £4O.
* * *
“Bunny”: It has become quite a common
thing for English ladies who own Angora
rabbits to work up the wool with an old-
fashioned spinning wheel, and knit it into
dainty garments. Lately hand-looms for
the purpose have appeared on the market.
The new machine-made Angora cloth can
now be had in any shade and is described
as “an exquisite fabric of feather-weight
lightness.” Britain is still tillable to supply
her own requirements, and imports nearly
£20,000 worth of Angora wool per month,
chiefly from France.
* * * *
“M.R.” : Tasmania lias grown flax for over
a century, but for a variety of reasons the
industry has not hitherto been placed on a
sound basis. Modern machinery and methods
are coming to the rescue. The Flax Corpora-
tion, a Tas. organisation, has established
branches in two mainland States and pro-
poses to work in others. For linseed alone
there is a Commonwealth market to the
value of £750,000 p.a., and that is small com-
pared with the market for manufactured
goods, such as linen threads, canvas and
seaming twines. Australian requirements in
these lines are largely supplied by Argentina
and the TJ.S.A. In Belfast £40,000,000 is
invested in the flax industry, and 100,000
operatives are employed.


miaiimmm
mm
•rrr^.
fej::
I
QIIIB
umnmw
BRITISH
\\HADE •
1 t f&J
feissri
<3
v
M4£>£
«eor
c^f4r
B *n*//v
©
No. 99 SET. Contains the essentials for a
perfect "Valet” shave—the razor,
strop and three blades in leather-
ette-covered case
3/-
Managing Agents for Australia'—
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
New Zealand Agents:
VAN STAVEREN BROS., Ltd., Auckland, Wellington and Christchurch.
“Slips along smoothly, doesn’t she?”
"Oh, you mean the car.... I was looking
at the poster. . ... ’*
“That slips along smoothly, too!”
“You use a Valet yourself?’*
“Never used any other since I started
shaving.”
“Why so faithful?’*
“Because it never lets me down. You
see, the blades are—”
“Ah, the blade’s the thing!’*
“ —are stropped to perfection automati-
cally by a device in the razor itself.”
“Sounds good. But I’ve no time in the
mornings.”
“Don’t need it! Ten seconds on the strop
without taking anything to pieces gives
you a blade as good as new.”
“Sounds ideal now! Where can I—?**
“Any dealer’s. 3 M<>|- or 22,6 for * he
entire set, all with the same principle.”
Wallaby Petrol Engines
IN STATIONARY AND PORTABLE TYPES.
EASY TO OPERATE. ECONOMICAL IN USE.
EXTENSIVELY USED IN ALL THE STATES.
A most reliable Power for driving Farming Machinery and for Factory or Workshop
use. Fuel Consumption (automatically regulated) -J to’2 Pint per B.H.P. per hour.
Design gives great Rigidness, Compactness and Strength. These qualities and simplicity
account much for the success of these popular Engines.
Made in Australia and guaranteed for one year.
Get Full Particulars and Prices.
Billabong Power Pumps
THE BILLABONG CENTRIFUGAL PUMP
is a Powerful Pump constructed to lift large quantities of Water for Irrigation and
other purposes. By independent test the “Billabong” reaches 75.8 per cent, efficiency,
and is a high-grade pump, offered at a very moderate price.
THE BILLABONG DOUBLE-ACTING PISTON PUMP
combines ample power and large capacity in most compact form.
It is specially adapted to meet the demand for a medium-priced power pump to be
operated by kerosene or petrol engines, or other belt power.
For full particulars of this and other Pumps, Irrigation Machinery and Pump
Accessories, see our General Pump Catalog—Post Free on application.
aJ-i
iiiimiiimiiiiiiitt
NHOf
lIUIIIIIUIUIUIO
gnmimmimimi
I NOS'S
Oimiiiiiiiiiiiii
391-403 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
324-330 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
For Any Travel
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
In co-operation with
WAGONS-UTS CO.
e
PASSAGES
By all lines, all routes, all classes,
at bedrock fares. No booking fees.
TO EUROPE 1930
As berthing plans for all steamers
are open, BOOK. NOW to ensure
comfort on the voyage.
ESCORTED EUROPEAN TOURS
We offer choice of a dozen different
tours leaving Australia in February,
March and April, at fares to suit all
purses. Apply for special pro-
gramme.
WINTER TOURS
To Queensland, Java, Siam, Japan,
Hawaii, California, Indo-China,
Ceylon, etc.
TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES
A boon to travellers, safe, conveni-
ent, good everywhere. Apply for
particulars.
SAILING LISTS
Programmes and all information
post free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE: 269 Collins Street.
SYDNEY: Martin Place.
ADELAIDE: 49 Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE: Adelaide Street.
PERTH: Forrest Place, opp. G.P.O.
AUCKLAND: Queen Street.
WELLINGTON: Corner Hunter and
Featherston Streets.


» x
f.
CHRYSLER MOTORS PRODUCT
Its ON
,Y small-car
FEATURE
• •
ts tts Low-Price
7=
wi
*
S
i
s.
a
Plymouth. 4-Door Sedan.
PLYMOUTH
FULL /SIZE
Today a small price need no
longer restrict you to a car of
iridifferent quality; 'nor need it
(•'limit you to a miniature motor car.
Chrysler Motors has introduced into
the low-priced field the beautiful
full-sized Plymouth. It is a quality
motor car in every respect —in style,
in comfort and in performance.
With its slender-profile radiator,
“air-wing” fenders and graceful body-
outline, Plymouth radiates an ad-
vanced style and distinction never be-
fore known in the low-priced field.
Plymouth’s smooth performance is
another feature never before charac-
teristic of such low-priced cars —
thanks to the modern high-compres-
sion engine with its extra-large crank-
shaft bearings, tull-pressure lubrica-
tion, rubber engine mountings and
body impulse neutraliser.
Plymouth is self-evidently a product
of Chrysler designing, Chrysler engi-
neering and Chrysler craftsmanship.
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales . . . Larke, Neave & Carter, Ltd., Sydney
Victoria . . Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Ward Motors, Limited, Brisbane
West Australia Wm. Attwood Motors, Ltd., Perth
South Australia .... O. 7". Rodda Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
Tasmania Metro Motors Pty., Lid., Hobart
New Zealand Todd Motor Company, Wellington
New Guinea W. R. Carpenter & Co., Ltd., Rabaul


<23
7he centre of Queen s tanc/s
' cf/st/ngu/sheet Soc/ot Life.
Hotel
BRISBANE
_ Magnificent Kail-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disoosal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, wit}'
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cable*: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780—10 bines.
e
9
uarantee of Wentworth Service
Smart people—the leaders —always congregate at the Went-
worth —the most efficiently-managed hotel in Australia.
They know, from their personal experience, the real mean-
ing of service which is personally guaranteed by Mrs. H.
Maclurcan, the Governing Director.
Wentworth comfort and cuisine is a byword among
seasoned hotel guests.
Wire or write for reservations.
Ohe Wentworth
-M
fTT
V
1
Church Hill,
Sydney.
Under
Royal
.Warrant
è
Tom
Kind;
GeorgeV
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
MesMiccfc
Binu
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
r \\\
CHAMPACNE m/j
Quileslladsie* T %
E I i)
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrer re-
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
Kayser
SHEER
CHIFFON
SILK
HOSIERY
There’s an unwritten law that the first
coo-ee of public hospitality to visiting war-
riors should come from the United Service
Club, to whose neat rooms in 8 Young-street
the officers of the French cruiser Tourville
were beckoned last week. “The Marseillaise,”
the visitors’ dress uniforms and the labored
French of a few partners who blushed later
to find the ease with which most French-
men spoke English, were the only indications
of the visitors’ nationality. Captain Daniell
and his lady were responsible for much of
the success of the gathering; other hostesses
were Mrs. Hardie, Mrs. Leo Quick and Mrs.
11. Palmer. Mrs. Quick was picturesque in
jade-green taffetas sprigged with roses, Mrs.
Daniell and Mrs. Hardie contrasted red
and black laces, and Mrs. Palmer billowed
in black tulle. The French Consul-General
and his lady were among the dancers —she
with a spray of white camellias poised on
the shoulder of her black lace frock.
Commissioner John Garlick’s wife sur
mounted black satins with a silver
bridge-coat. Brigadier-General Herring’s lady
brought her deb. daughter, and a niece
of Commander Garsia wore an unusual
frock, the long bodice of which was pink
chiffon vandyked into a skirt of black chiffon.
Colonel Spain’s lady got an effect of Old
Castile with her red roses, and black laces.
During the evening Joan Raynor, from the
T.O.Y. Theatre downstairs, looked in, and
later was seen stepping out with some of the
best-looking visitors. At the head of the
room the flags of France and Australia
sparkled in gay comradeship.
Sir Dudley and his lady put in a late
appearance fresh from the Ice Carnival at
the Glaci., and danced untiringly till nearly
closing-time. Son Graham and daughter
Elaine were in the official group, as were Pre-
mier Bavin and his daughter Nancy. Lady
de Chair sported black georgettes and opals,
while daughter Elaine’s blonde coloring
looked its best above spring-like green. Del-
phinium-blue laces flowed about Mrs. John
Garlick, and Mrs. Clifford Hay wore her
serene expression above vellum satin, on
which opalescent sequins softly glowed. Mrs.
Norman Lowe was one of the night’s belles
and covered her dark hair in a close casque
of beaten silver. Her frock of platinum grey
glittered with lines of beading, and in vivid
contrast was her fan of scarlet ostrich-tips.
Consuls representing various nations gave
the function the air of high diplomacy,
especially notable when Captain Ahrial, of the
French cruiser Tourville, brave in his uni-
form, made his bow to their Exes, and the
hostess. Mrs. Wunderlich wore her match-
less complexion above gold tissue. Bonita
Appleton and Phyllis Fuller, the youthful
secretaries, were smart respectively in ivory
J?*™ peach-pink georgettes. Organiser
Mrs. Ferrari Passmore passed the night in
buoyant black taffetas, and Mrs. Stuart
Doyle looked like a prize pink carnation in
her frilled georgettes. The Harry Budges
brought daughters Sadie and Elise, Mrs.
Budge looking like a slightly older sister in
ter pale rose-pink laces.
The Town Hall was arrayed in much of
its. old-time glory for the Citizens’ Ball last
Friday. It had a new dancing floor, the
eurtain-hung cubicles circling the room be-
neath the galleries were furnished with tables
round and oblong, and it wore its transfor-
mation to the cabaret style with a self-
conscious defiance. The corridors where in
bad. mad Artist Ball nights Columbine
perched on the knees of Pierrot showed no-
thing naughtier than row upon row of
very firm pink jellies resting on white-
clothed buffets, with an occasional trifle or
mound of frosted cakes to. lend variety. The
flutter had its kick-off from Civic Commis-
sioner John Garlick’s wife, and represented
part of her effort to raise £5OOO for the
prevention and cure of tuberculosis. It is
a noble cause, and in its interests somebody
should have passed out a few wraps
to the Grecian maids from one of the phy-
sical culture schools. Dressed in a few
wisps of white chiffon, the girls posed and
stepped while a draught like a wind straight
off the Bay of Whales blew through their
raiment. This picturesque episode, set to
“Peer Gynt,” took place immediately after
the debs, had been presented to the vice-
regals. One of these, by the way, was Monica,
eldest daughter of E. G. Theodore, M.IJ.R.
Sir Dudley de Chair was among those
on the decks of the Tourville last Satur-
day, when Captain Abrial and his merry men
were at home to their Sydney friends.
France’s Consul-General did the presenting,
and his Gallic friendliness and ease wrapped
the afternoon about with a warmth as com-
forting as that of the opening day of spring.
One of the most pleasing of the Tourville
properties to this Letter was the giddy little
red pom-pom that surmounts the sailor’s
cap. Summer frocks made their debut at
this party, but most of the girl friends clung
to their winter garments, with more or less
of repentance as the dances wore on. Mrs.
Nettement, the attractive wife of France’s
Consul-General, wore black and white with
distinction. The Tom Hughes lady warmed
black satin ensemble with stone-marten furs;
Speaker Levy squired a sister clad’ in leaf-
brown ; the acting Consul-General for Japan
was there and Mrs. ivishi. Tall Mimi
Healey came in skyey blue, while sparkling
Myrine Collins contrasted sleek black hair
with wine-red .velvet. All the Consuls walked
the decks, including the representative of
Germany; Nancy Bavin unofficially repre-
sented the State Government in place of her
father, who was unable to be present.
Dr. Fanny Reading took an hour off
from writing' prescriptions the other day to
drop into the Synagogue to cheer brother
Stanley on the first stage of his matrimonial
adventure. Stanley, like his sister, a doctor, is
also a keen golfer. The bride who teed off with
him was Esme Rodd, eldest daughter of the
J. Rodds, of Randwick. Sappliire-blue vel-
vet and rose point were allied in her after-
noon frock and hat. There were no ’maids,
and the groom was stage-managed by his
brother. The reception was held by Mr.
and Mrs. Rodd at the Australia, among the
guests being the Reading parents, who had
come from Melbourne for the occasion.
There were close on 50 debs, at the Loyal
Orange Ball last week. Radiantly they
stepped under an arch of steel, then under
one of yellow roses; they emerged to make
their compliments to Mrs. C. A. Willoughby,
wife of the G.M. Mrs. J. Birrell mur-
mured the presentations in carnation-pink
velvet, and Mrs. Willoughby’s orange georg-
ettes made a brilliant splash of color. The
Dill Macky orphanages at Strathfield and
Auburn will get the receipts from a very
full Town Hall.
Herewith Mrs. Stuart Doyle the pretty
wife of the movie magnate. H'e is com-
modore of the
Royal Motor
Yacht Club of
N. S. W„ s o
Mrs. Doyle is
an active
member of the
committee or-
ganising the
ball which the
club and its
branches at
Newcastle and
Broken Bay
will hold at the
A m b assadors
on September
18. All the
members of the,
R.M.Y.C. will
wear nautical
uniform, and
on each table
will be moored
a flower model
of one of the yachts of the fleet. On each
table, too, will flutter a silk pennant
inscribed with the name of the host and his
yacht. Alan Rowe made the picture.
We hope the Girl in the Flat Opposite isn’t
right when she says that the Medical Con-
gress is having a giddy round of infectious
gaiety. Anyway the fraternity started well
with the blessing of the Church on Sun-
day. By that time every hotel in the city
was packed to overflowing with medicine
men from all over Australia and other parts
of the world, and the special services within
St. Mary’s and St. Andrew’s, where many
distinguished University men attended in
their academic robes, proved as magnetic as
the garden party arranged by the medical
Blackburn couple for the afternoon. Monday
was a rather crowded day, beginning with a
reception at the Town Hall, which merged
gently into various luncheons. The afternoon
was occupied by the Government House
garden party, and at night the Town Hull
glittered with robes and decorations, sheen of
women’s frocking and the high voltage of
diamonds for the inaugural function. The
Victoria League hostessed a water picnic on
Tuesday morning, chartering a ferry instead
of launches for the outing. This gave guests
a chance to walk about and resulted in a
constant changing of groups, besides enabling
the morning tea to be enjoyed in comfort.
The women doctors gave and are giving
lunches to the visiting women doctors; the
Council of the Women’s College entertained
the wives of the visiting men. A group of
noted medicoes’ wives are staging quite a
shivoo at the Rose Bay Golf Club. Other big
fixtures for which it will be necessary to
keep the marcel in the hair are the reception
at David Jones’s on Thursday evening, given
by the president and Council of the N.S.W.
branch of the 8.M.A., the afternoon recep-
tion at the Uni., where the hosts are the
president and members of the Australasian
Medical Congress, and the ball at the Town
Hall on Friday.
Celebrities among the medical visitors are
Sir Ewen Maclean, past president of the
B.M.A. and Professor of Obstetrics at the
Welsh National School of Medicine, to
whom the Medical Society of the Uni. is
paying special homage in a conversazione
after the tumult of the Congress is over
(at this function a portrait of Dr. Johnny
Hunter, ever to be remembered, will be
unveiled by Prof. A. E. Mills) ; Dr. F. 11.
McMachan, an authority on anaesthetics; Vic-
tor N. Pecker, a French engineer interested
in the possibility of the X-ray being used
to determine various sheep complaints; and
Dr. Truby King from Maoriland.
Greet our champion golfer. She is Mrs.
Reginald Clements, and up till a few months
ago w r as Enid
Yeldham. Mrs
Clements i s
an associate
of Cammeray
—those links
on the north
side of the
Harbor whose
. players must
combine the
agility of the
chamois with
the endurance
of the Alpine
climber. Since
playing off
with Mr s.
M organ, of
Royal Sydney
Golf Club, for
the champion-
sh i p honors,
Mrs. Clements
has a gain , . . ..
gathered in the Cammeray Cup—it is tlie
third year out of the six since she started
playing that she has secured this distinction.
Photo from Dayne studio.
Dr. G. H. Abbott is president of the Con-
gress, and the two amiable secretaries are
Dr. T. Lipscomb, of Macquarie-street, and
Dr. A. A. Palmer.
In an environment of Iceland poppies,
arum-lilies, and the red damask _ curtains
beloved by the Victorian age, the Civic Com-
missioners extended to the male members of
the Medical Congress the freedom of the
city. President Dr. George Abbott decanted
a 'dry humor that almost persuaded the
listener he had sprung from the Edinburgh
previously extolled by Minister for Health Dr.
Arthur. Among other things he mentioned
that Dame Janet Campbell is going to
make it so easy and pleasant for women
to have babies that there will be no need of
immigrants. Dr. Ewen Maclean has a mel-
lowly careful method of speech and a phras-
ing almost ambassadorial; his remarks were
plentifully applauded, as were those of John
Lane Mullins. Town Clerk Layton was
there looking as impressive as any; and
seeing his tall uprightness coming into the
room one understood what manner of man
the architects had in mind when they de-
signed those lofty doorways and the six-
feet-odd mirrors dug in above the Town
Hall mantelpieces.
Members of the Girls’ Secondary Schools’
Club foregathered last week for a parting
spinsterly cup with Valerie Britten and
Woodgee Mackay. Both of these youthful
members of the youngest club in Sydney have
decided on matrimony for a career. Woodgee
will marry her Oscar Peters, of Palm Beach,
early this month; and Valerie Britten will
become Mrs. Noel Lloyd, of West Mait-
land, in October.
James Fraser, Chief Commissioner for
Railways, sustained a sad bereavement when
his wife, who had been in indifferent health
for some time, collapsed and died suddenly
at her home at Pymble. The news has
evoked heartfelt sympathy, for the amiable
couple had formed friendships everywhere.
In Sydney Jewry there has been some
heartburning over the tendency to break
away from the Maccabean Institute and
form social clubs; the breakaways assert
that they find too much cold convention-
ality in the expensive hall that was built
as the Jewish War Memorial. Even the
Council of Jewish Women has established
its rooms elsewffiere, and two breakaway
associations, the Jewish Cultural Club and
the Jewish National Society, have amalga-
mated to form the Jewish Club of Sydney.
This is an active organisation, which in one
week staged two Jewish plays, broad-
cast a programme of Jewish music and
folk songs, and listened to illustrated lectures
by two Jewish globetrotters, besides holding
dances.
Jean McGregor, of Griffith, wore an ivory
and gold wedding garment and carried a sheaf
of gold tiger-lilies when she became the wife
of George Thornton Parkinson at St.
Stephen’s last week. A dual veil in which
old family lace and a mist of white tulle
were wedded floated off into a train that was
sleuthed up the aisle by Struan Kemmis.
The bride’s primrose chiffons harmonised
well with her posy of daffodils. Harry Cross-
ing best-manned, and Mr. and Mrs. N. D.
McGregor supervised the cake-cutting at the
Wentworth.
A cable from Suva mentioned that Miss
Ruth Beale had married a fellow-passenger
from San Francisco to Sydney, and instantly
popular Ruth Beale, who is doing much for
the Barnardo cause in Australia, was nearly
run off her feet answering the ’phone at her
father’s home assuring eager friends that she
wasn’t the Ruth Beale referred to. The lady
in the cast turned out to have been Ruth
Beall, a dark-haired daughter of California.
She arrived in Sydney by the Sonoma Mrs.
G. S. Wride. Theirs is said to have been one
of the quickest romances even in the Sonoma
records. The bridegroom is general manager
in Australia for the Conklin fountain-pen.
The Harry Rosenthals, of Melbourne, were
busy over daughter Elva’s wedding garments
and raiment for presentation at Court, but
snatched time off. to stage a party at the
Langham in honor of Jack. The Frank
Coplands, of Bellevue Hill, also busy over
similar celebrations, gave him, a great fare-
well at the Mayfair.
“The Prince Who Was a Piper” raised
the wind to the tune of £356, and Elaine de
Chair, who was the Princess in the charity
performance at the Con., handed the amount
over the other morning to Padre R. Rook
at the Australia. Mrs. Ross Gore and Mrs.
Leslie Williams, who organised the theatri-
cals, and Harold Watch, who ably produced
them, were among those present.
Olive Florence Hotchkiss was one of the
attractive brides of last week. She stepped,
by way of St. Stephen’s, in Phillip-street,
across the threshold of matrimony with Dr.
Ronald Elliott Murray, of Auburn. White
Chantilly lace and ivory chiffon foamed about
the girl from the Parramatta River, and a
cascade of tulle train was followed by train-
bearer Jean Ward, Dorothy Murray and
Nora Crowe. Ethereal pinks and greens
were worn by the bridesmaids, while the
small girl’s sky-blue georgettes were bound
with a wide taffeta sash. The bride’s mother,
who gave her away, hostessed the junketing
at Tattersall’s Hotel.
When concert-manager Jack Griffiths
called on actor Jack Kirby in London he
found him entirely surrounded with photos
of Dot Brunton. Jack is responsible for lots
of the comedy in “H'old Everything,” and
Dorothy was quite a hit in “The Lady of the
Camellia.” Frank Harvey and Marie Tem-
pest are others doing well in the theatrical
game. In opera, Pauline Bindley is one of
the leads of the Carl Rosa Company, to which
Gertrude Concannon is a new recruit.
Florence Austral in “The Valkyrie” had
Gladys Cole supporting her as Chief
Rhine Maiden. Gladys Cole is living
in a beautifully appointed flat, is sing-
ing like a bird, is shingled, and has obviously
found. her place. Other Sydney friends
whom Jack reports as doing more than
well were Robert Chisholm, at the Palladium ;
Madge Elliot, looking in real life as beauteous
as on the stage; Cyril Ritchard, in “Love
Lies,” and Clarice Hardwicke; and Vera
Pearce, very lovely but a good deal larger,
was convulsing London in a Connie Ediss
comedy part. The negro basso Paul Robeson
was the London rage, his popularity rivalling
that of Delysia, whose charms left the Aus-
tralian quite cold. But conductor Eugene
•Goossens drew him again and again to the
orchestral concerts under his baton. Jascha
Heifetz gave two recitals in the Queen’s Hall
to only average attendances. D’AlvaVez staged
one concert. Which suggests that Australians
are richer than most in musical appreciation.
Artists visiting Sydney often give eight, nine
or ten concerts, and their managements
squeal if the Town Hall, which holds 3500,
isn’t filled for each of them.
The Wentworth and September 25 have
been booked by the Balmain and District
Hospital committee for their hall. To help
defray expenses, Mrs. E. H. Clarke and
ladies of Woolwich and Hunter’s Hill
intend holding a concert on September 14.
A dance at the Five Dock Bowling Club,
a supper dance and card party in the
Balmain Towrn Hall on September 2, and
a garden fete to be held at the hospital
early in September, are among the fund-
raisers. Mrs. Udall, Mayoress of Drum-
moyne, is the president. Mrs. H. B. Clarke,
Mayoress of Hunter’s Hill, and Mrs. T. H.
Silk are among the vice-presidents.
Mrs. Tom Walsh, who was Adela Pank-
hurst, is throwing her enthusiasm into her
Industrial Peace Crusade. She is out to
gather 20,000 women members into the fold
of her proposed Peace Guild. Mrs. Walsh
suggests that educated women should visit
industrial districts and speak to work-
ing women about industrial peace, and
what it would mean to them and their
children in the way of better oppor-
tunities. After decades of bungling, it seems
that men can’t even manage to keep the
machinery of industry from breaking dowm.
Perhaps a league of 20,000 women will not
only set it going again, but manage to keep
it running smoothly. Anyway, the results
can’t be any worse than those achieved by
the men of the family.


s~\
mm
■ ■
las
wm
■ r
Wk
k‘
% &
(■■XV
: -W
/V
kk-j?
%
wm
,3
mmm
Hi
wmmn&Sk
k
•mm
f
f\
w
. „
The Modern Way to
Virile Strength and Power!
Remarkable picture showing George O y ßrien, famous “Fox” Star, a magnificent Specimen
of Manhood , against a towering Modern Background of Stone and Steel .
Pulses leap afresh with re-invigorated
blood when you take Cream of Yeast.
Muscles ripple as the buoyancy of better
health returns; eyes brighten, cheeks
glow with healthy color; the step
quickens; a cheery smile appears. Cream
of Yeast is the world's most modem
remedy. Take it for bad nerves, indiges-
tion, sleeplessness, dizzy, pain-racked
spells, and skin troubles. Take it when
you feel tired, depressed and 4 ‘below
par”—but be sure you get genuine
Cream of Yeast, the kind that has the
largest sales, gives most reliable results,
costs least and is guaranteed to give you
definite benefit with the first bottle or
cost you nothing! Every chemist and
store sells Cream of Yeast—24 tablets,
1/11, 48 for 3/6, or 125 for 5/9. Famous
people rely on Cream of Yeast, and a
guarantee protects you. Cream of Yeast
is the best and quickest way to Better
Health and Greater Strength. Try it!
o
Cream of Yeast is the Best Way to Better Health.
Ask your Chemist or Storekeeper for a package to-day!
If not near chemist or store, post your order to Amalgamated Laboratories, Kembla Building, Sydney.
REMEMBER: IT MUST BE “CREAM OF YEAST”!


J
m? f'/s/A
Cable, Wireless, Telegraphic Address .*
" AUstraotel , Hyaney.’’
Magnificently illustrated booklet free on request.
The Australia is the centre of
Sydney! Socially, of course,
and having as well a pleasing
proximity to all that counts —
to shops, banks, theatres and
business houses, to depart-
mental and public buildings.
And it has that atmosphere and
that air of completeness which
marks a hotel as worthy of your
patronage.
PARADISE PLUMES
BY GILBERT MUNRO TURNBULL
01 Jllujjtra.l'iorvj by <&oOUT©WA4.OCH[EASCD □
Synopsis : Returning to New Guinea
after a holiday in Sydney, Stephen
Blake, District Magistrate, meets
Lesley Rowan and, warmly attracted
to her, he is about to confess his love,
when she tells him that she is going
to marry Harry Merton, a planter of
Akupaka Bay, the district in which
Blake’s out-station lies. Meanwhile,
Jimmy Glover, holding court as Assist-
ant-Resident Magistrate, imposes an-
other fine on Merton for cruelty to his
native laborers, and learns that the
native girl, Loana, who had been Mer-
ton’s mistress and had borne him a
son, has been returned to her village,
while the son has been sent to a mis-
sion school. Glover, fearing for the
white girl who is coming to marry
Merton, orders his native sergeant to
see that Loana is kept away from
Laubogi, Merton’s plantation. Blake
forces himself not to disillusion
Lesley over her fiance, and tries to
cheer her by telling her she will like
Tod Lorimer and others. Lorimer, now
a rich man, has a half-caste daughter,
Moira, whom he practically offered to
Blake as a wife, but the offer was re-
jected. The voyage ended, Lesley
marries Merton and goes to his plan-
tation, where she gets her first hint of
the brutal side of his character when
he smashes his fist into the face of
Sam Turner, a dipsomaniac and local
identity, who calls and pleads for a
drink.
CHAPTER XI ( Continued ).
LESLEY was shocked, dismayed. Mock-
ing voices were making themselves
heard in the deeper levels of her con-
sciousness; horrible thoughts were springing
from some dark cell of her mind. Reso-
lutely she closed her ears to the secret
voices; defiantly she thrust back the hideous
thoughts. She told herself fiercely that she
was the victim of a grim, unlovely jest.
Hal was sick; he had been overworking
himself; he was suffering from the effects
of the sun, of fever. This man who reviled
foul-mouthed beachcombers in their own
tongue; who bullied and assaulted cook-
boys, and who fumed and sulked and in-
sulted his wife—this was not Hal, the dream
man who had captured her imagination
and her heart.
Sick—fatigued—sun-struck! The words,
the pitiful excuses beat upon her brain in a
perpetual maddening rhythm, as, clinging
desperately to her faith, she sought assur-
ance that her fears were groundless. What
had happened? What was happening ,to
her?
Lesley Merton was in the grip of a real
fear when she heard her husband’s foot-
steps on the garden path. She sat rigidly
in her chair, her eyes downcast, her mouth
trembling, her hands clasped tightly to-
gether.
“Lesley!”
She resisted the appeal in her husband’s
voice, averted her head when he sank down
beside her, and a little tremor shook her
when he put his arm about her.
“Sweetheart!” he muttered huskily. “I’m
an evil-tempered beast; but I’m ashamed,
Les, bitterly ashamed.”
Lesley felt her distress melting away be-
fore the sincerity of his voice. Merton
felt her quivering, felt the tension in her
nerves relaxing, and he drew her tempestu-
ously to him.
“Forgive me, Les.” There was awe, rever-
ence in his voice. “What can I say? What
is there to say, sweetheart?”
She turned her face towards him. Her
eyes were swimming, but she smiled a
frightened, pleading, breathless smile. Her
distress bewildered him; it was mingled
with pity and perplexity, doubt and yearn-
ing forgiveness, and every decent instinct
in the man rose up to condemn him. Lesley!
His wife, with her innocent soul in her
eyes; her sweet belief in him unchanged!
Harry Merton saw himself for what he
was, and he fell silent, ashamed.
Lesley was clinging to him convulsively,
desperately, in an agony of relief.
“My dear! My dear!”
So real was his remorse, so sincere his
contrition that a great calm came to the
woman. She lifted her lips to his; he
kissed them hungrily and there was an
ecstatic reconciliation.
They walked among the palms after
dinner that night. She still felt something
of emotional strain; but the peace of the
soft tropic night was soothing her spirit.
It assuaged the ache left in her heart, and
it banished the little look of pain that lay
about her eyes. Hal had shown her a side
of his character whose existence she had
never suspected; a side she would never
understand, with which she would never
sympathise. It was as though some rude
hand had torn a hole in the airy fabric
of her dreams; as if a veil had been lifted
and she had been given a fleeting, sickening
vision of abominable things.
Impulsively she seized her husband’s hand
and squeezed it. He returned the pressure
softly, and so, arm in arm, they strolled
along the narrow track between the palms.
“The Government whaleboat passed off
shore this morning,” Merton said suddenly.
Lesley gave an exclamation of pleasure.
“Then we shall have visitors, Hal. How
lovely! I’m so glad you warned me. It
would be awkward to be taken completely
by surprise. Who yas on board? Stephen?”
“That is extremely unlikely.” There was
a constraint in Merton’s voice. “The R.M.
naturally relegates mere formal patrols to
his subordinates. The whaler was standing
well out towards Kabasi, too far out for
me to identify the white man in charge.
But we shall have visitors, all right; Blake
or Glover or that cocky little bird Jenkins,
one or the other will be on the job to-
morrow.”
“On the job, dear?” Lesley’s voice
sounded puzzled. - ■'
“Quarterly inspection, my dear, her
husband explained patiently. “One of a
number of petty annoyances devised by a
nigger-mothering Government to keep the
planter in his place.”
“You are very bitter,” Lesley laughed.
“Naturally,” returned Merton drily. “One
gets veiy tired of being taught one’s busi-
ness by a callow youth who ought to be in a
Port Moresby office banging a typewriter.
Inspectors of Native Labor, they call them!”
Lesley remained silent.
“The inspector usually descends upon one
at a most inconvenient time,” Merton went
on, “bringing a squad of fat, lazy policemen
and a mob of hungry carriers. He lines up
the ‘boys,’ and seems quite hurt if they
make no complaints. Then he takes their
temperatures, inspects the sleeping-quarters,
tests the drinking water, examines the
cooking-pots and noses round officiously with
a magnifying-glass in one hand and a scent-
spray in the other. By that time he begins
to feel hungry and invites himself to lunch,
empties one’s decanter, fills his case with
one’s cigarettes and probably fines one a
fiver for some thoughtless breach of a
ridiculous law that should never be on the
statute book.”
Lesley laughed aloud. “Go on, Hal!” she
exclaimed. “Lovely! What next ?
Merton stared. “Great Scott, Les!” he
ejaculated. “D’you think I’m joking?”
Lesley was suddenly sober. “Aren’t you,
dear?” she asked uncertainly. “I’m sorry
if”
“If you think my inspector is a libellous
creation of my own fancy, wait until you
see Blake or one of his offsiders put me
through the mill. No, dear, the Native
Labor Ordinance exasperates the planter,
but it doesn’t amuse him.”
Lesley was silent. She wondered a little
at her husband’s vehemence. She was
puzzled also by his contemptuous refer-
ence to his friend Blake and the others at
the Government station. But she let it
pass.
When at last they returned to the bun-
galow, the unrest was gone from her eyes,
and she fell almost immediately into a
dreamless sleep.
Late in the night she was aroused by
the sound of light footsteps and labored
breathing under her window, and the pun-
gent odor .of rancid cocoanut oil assailed
her nostrils. Her heart pounded, and then
stood still, and a little tremor shook her.
In Port Moresby stories were told, ugly
stories, of night-prowling natives, stories
she had dismissed as the wild imaginings
oi neurotic women overwhelmed by tropical
hysteria, or, at most, the exaggerated crea-
tions of nasty- minds. Yet a man, a black
man, was abroad in the night. He was
under her bedroom window. The stories
she had heard were suddenly terrifyingly
real.
Sergeant Babaka.
She strained her ears, hushed her breath-
ing, and lay motionless, rigid, in an agony
of dread. Then with an effort she sum-
moned back her courage. Hal lay sleeping
peacefully in the next bed. She had only
to call out to awaken him.
There was a whisper—low, cautious, secre-
tive.
“Taubada! Oi noga hani?” [“Are you
awake?”]
Lesley recognised, with relief, the voice
of Moragi the boss boy, but his words con-
veyed nothing to her. There was silence
for a moment, broken only by the native’s
hoarse breathing, the soft rustling of the
palm-fronds, the muttered boom of the surf
on the distant reef.
“Taubada! Oi noga hani?” Moragi’s
voice was huskily insistent.
Lesley, now wide awake, was conscious
only of annoyance. Moragi had no right to
disturb her husband’s slumbers at this hour
of the night. She would order him on.
“Taubcida!”
Merton stirred sleepily; then with a start
was fully awake. oo
“All right, Moragi,” he growled. Close
up I come.” , „
Lesley was conscious of surprise as ne
slipped noiselessly out of bed. She heard
him groping for his slippers, heard tne
hinges creak as the door was opened and
shut, the click of the lock, the shuffling
sound of Moragi’s receding footsteps.
A little later the sound of low voices
came from the back verandah Hal s quick,
insistent tones punctuated by the softer
voices of natives. Lesley wondered idly
what it portended, this secret midnight con-
ference, but soon her eyes grew heavy, the
rising and falling voices faded into nothing-
ness, and she slept. , , ,
Merton did not enlighten her the next
morning when, sipping her early tea, she
sat on the verandah'.
Lesley felt a little piqued.
“I hoped to put in the day bagging copra
for the Siai,” Merton remarked, “But
my plans have been upset.” . .
“Indeed, dear? Why?” Lesley inquired.
Merton laughed ruefully. “My quarterly
inquisition. And a couple of weeks before
its time. The Government patrol camped
at Akupaka village last night. Blake is in
charge, by the way.”
Lesley brightened at that. “I’m so pleased,
Hal,” she exclaimed. “It must be nearly a
month since we spent that last week-end at
the Residency. Fancy, a month since we
last saw a white face!” She paused. ‘Did
did Moragi bring the news?”
Merton gave a little start. He shot a
swift, questioning glance at her, then turned
away his head.
“I’m sorry if Moragi disturbed you, dear,
he answered evasively. “The old fellow
takes his job very seriously, you know. He
never fails to acquaint me with all the news
that comes his way. He is really a very
valuable old bird.”
Lesley said nothing. There was a lack
of frankness in her husband’s answer, a
curious constraint in his voice, a suggestion
of something kept back. She was surprised
at her husband’s secretiveness—surprised
and a little hurt.
CHAPTER XII.
Thinking Black.
It was high noon at Akupaka village—the
hour of idleness when old men sleep, young
men loaf, and only women and white men
work.
The tropic sun beat down, raising waves
of heat that glimmered and danced over
the bone-white coral sand, that struck up-
wards at the eyes, that banished even the
birds and insects to the recesses of the
jungle.
The south-east trade was dying. A whale-
boat under full sail, dazzling white against
the deep blue of sea and sky, lay out in
the bay. For hours she had lain there
with all canvas trimmed to catch every
capful of a breeze that scarcely gave her
steering way.
Many a pair of eyes observed her from
the shore: the sleepy eyes of men made
stupid by the chewing of much betel-nut;
the dull eyes of women who, with bent
backs, toiled listlessly in the gardens; the
curious eyes of little children, and the
rebellious eyes of the girl Loana were made
pools of smouldering fire by the bitterness
of her wrongs.
Suddenly the watchers on shore heard
faintly a voice of command. There sounded
the rattle of cordage, the whine of ropes
through pulley-sheaves, and the sails were
taken in and stowed. Then they saw the
(Continued on page 51.)


Catanach’s Announce the Marvellous
HARWOOD SELF-WINDING WATCH
£lO/10/-
Wonders will never cease! Here is a marvellous Watch that
NEVER NEEDS WINDING! Sounds incredible—but it is true.
WEARING WINDS IT!
Just wear it and it will keep on going year in and year out. Your unconscious
movements will keep it fully wound up. The automatic winding mechanism
is simplicity itself nothing to get out of order. Full 1 5-jewel Lever Move-
ment. Every Watch fully guaranteed.
Supply limited at present. Get yours NO^ 7 , or, if we should be sold out,
book one for later delivery.
e
Corner Royal Arcade and Little Collins Street
MELBOURNE Cl.
W-McF.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckler's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
[?]
The Victorian Artists’ Society’s annual
hop apparently survives merely as a matter
of tradition, for the Art fraternity is be-
coming each year more conspicuous by its
absence. However, a dance is a dance, what-
ever its title, and the V.A.S. gallery was
crowded out with dancers arrayed mostly in
Oriental garb, which fitted admirably into
the decorative setting of a Persian fair,
the numerous banners and mats being
painted by the few knights and ladies of
brush and palette who ran the jollo. H. L.
Fern and Yvonne Mclntyre hon. secretaried,
wearing elaborate Asiatic raiment; and
Murray Griffin, as a Rajah, lent an aiding
hand. Mrs. Ed. Dyson, with her fair locks
flowing over brown attire, made a pretty
Cinderella. Nan 'McClelland and brother
Harry danced in gorgeous haremesque
apparel, and Hilda Meadows, just back
from six months’ holiday in Maoriland, was
all in pink.
Madame McArden’s recital at the Town
Hall on Saturday night was attended by
many society folk. INJrs. Harry Emmerton,
who headed the aiding committee, was there
with her niece Mary Emmerton and Mrs.
Eggleston. Others in the audience were
Littleton Groom and his lady with daughter
Jessie, Judge Lukin, French Consul Rene
Turck and his wife, A. Gunn and Mrs. Gunn,
Ihe Best lady and the Misses Turner.
Madame McArden, who sang in many lan-
guages, wore a chiffon velvet gown of La
France rose-hue, slightly traced with rhine-
stones. Among the tributes handed to her
were bouquets tied with the French and
Italian colors. Elsie Fraser, who was in a
deep blue-toned frock, was accompanist and
solo pianist, and tenor Walter Kirby was
also heard.
“Whoopee,” F’rank . Neil’s venture into
musical comedy, which opened at the King’s
on Saturday night, has much to recommend
it from an artistic and spectacular point of
view. The Red Indian scene which opens
the second act is a delight. The shapely
girls with feathered head-dresses and gay
blankets supply a gorgeous medley of color.
A ballet that makes its entrance over a steep
parapet provides another effective scene. The
dancers’ long plaits of black hair are crowned
by rose-tipped white feathers, and their
silvery garments gleam with a light network
of crystal beads. Into the concluding tableau
comes a maiden all in white plumage mounted
on a grey palfrey, attended by Black Eagle
and the rest of his tribe in brilliant attire.
Frank Neil had to pick his way among a
garden of flowers to make his speech at the
final curtain, Charley Sylber nursing a
cake, a boomerang, a bouquet of vegetables
and some other trifles, Forrest Yarnall and
Genevieve Ward were introduced to the audi-
ence. Mrs. Arthur Robb, Mr. and Mrs.
Ormiston, Gwen Johnston, Mrs. C. J. Ahern
and her school-girl daughter, General Mon-
ash and Miss Bentwitch were in the first-
night audience.
Rarely is a musical recital so satisfying
as that given by Margaret Sutherland, Mary
Baillieu and Mollie Turner Shaw at the
Assembly Hall on Friday, the programme
being made up of arrangements for two
pianos. The first half was drawn from Bach,
Mozart and Brahms, and such moderns in
Ravel, Arnold Bax and Manuel Infante were
heard after the interval. The stage was
bordered with daffodils, boronia, jonquils,
marigolds and miniature orangeffrees, with
several large bushes of pink peach-blossom
in the background. The only stage lighting
was cast from two tall standard electric
lamps with pale gold shades. Margaret
Sutherland wore kingfisher-blue satin, Mary
Baillieu chiffon of the faintest green, and
Miss Turner pale pink tulle in fluffy frills.
Society rolled up wrapped in its best evening
coats. Sheafs and baskets of flowers were
piled about the clever trio at the finish.
Supporters of St. Vincent’s Hospital have
lost no time in reaching out for a radium
supply. Within four days of the position
being placed before the public tickets were
issued for the first money-raising effort, a
springtime ball at the Plaza, St. Kilda,
on October 15.
Nancye, only daughter of the late Mr and
Mrs. P. M. Monahan, of Echuca, is receiving
congratulations on her engagement to Donald
P. French, of St. Kilda, younger son of
Mr. and Mrs. J. L. French, of Sussex,
England.
Miss Charlotte Furphy, a winsome mem-
ber of the clan of “Tom Collins,” of “Such
is Life” fame, is finishing an intensive course
of training under Anglican C.M.S. auspices
for mission work in India. She leaves for
Bombay in a few weeks.
Xavier students, old and young, mingled
in the hestitation waltz and one-step at the
Plaza, St. Kilda, one evening last week, pro-
ceeds of the dance going to the Memorial
Chapel Fund of the college. Mrs. J. B.
Breheny, president of the directing com-
mittee, was present in draperies of wine
color. Hon. sec. Alma Simpson’s buttercup-
toned frock followed the meandering hem
fashion. Flowered chiffon was chosen by
Mrs. W. Tutton, who checked the returns.
Wearing pearls upon a black and grey pat-
terned ring-velvet gown that gleamed with
silver, Mrs. Arthur Payne successfully
camouflaged as a smart at-home a meeting
in connection with the propaganda week of
the Animal Welfare League. Scotsburn’s
Louis drawing-room was decked with daf-
fodils and peach blossom, and pink carna-
tions and more fruit bloom graced the dining-
room, where afternoon-tea was spread. As
the State Government has closed the clinic
of the Veterinary School of the Uni., it
was decided to conduct such a clinic two
afternoons a week for a year. Dr. E. J.
Bordeaux explained how things might be
managed at a cost of £5OO, if the Govern-
ment building and its equipment, now idle,
could be secured. To help swell the proceeds
of the annual ball on October 18, several
valuable gifts were handed in to be raffled,
including a case of champagne, silk stock-
ings and a beautiful doll. A pleasant inter-
lude was furnished by the singing of Mary
Thirlwall.
Pride in Collins-street is waning. A
veritable canopy of wires for tramway
electrification stretches across the eastern
end of the thoroughfare where it meets
Spring-street. Despite the dignity of _ Mel-
bourne Club and the professional air of
the buildings which house the meds., the
once stately street is becoming utilitarian.
It will not be long before the Masonic Hall
is pushed further eastward. The Spring-street
corner nearer to Parliament House is to be
used soon for residential flats several storeys
high. The present structure is only three-
storeyed.
When the last mail left France the Jimmy
Dyers were spending a few weeks in Evain
while their flat in Paris was being fixed up
according to the lady’s taste. She had a
nice little compliment paid her on her birth-
day in the form of the gift by Gustav
Holst of the original copy of his new work,
“The Dream City,” which is dedicated to
her. Mrs. Dyer introduced many of this
modern English composer’s works to Aus-
tralia, and she is arranging for the inclusion
of complete copies of all his scores in the
library of the British Music Society 4n
Melbourne. Two orchestral pieces have
already been received, one of which is in
the hands of the conductor of the orchestra of
the N.S.W. Con. for production.
Here is Mrs. L. Drexler, who out of
500 applicants has been selected to be the
R e c e p t ion
Officer at the
Gov ernment
Tourist
Bureau. She
is a woman
with consider-
ab 1 e experi-
ence of travel
and of dealing
with humans.
For about
three years she
has been Re-
ception Officer
fo r General
Motors, Ltd.,
having previ-
ously been the
Welfare Offi-
cer to that
fi r m. M e 1-
bourne born,
she was a
member of the
Repertory Society under the Gregan
McMahon regime. Mrs. Drexler has been
twice married, and twice widowed. Her first
husband was killed in the Great War, her
second husband’s work was in Dutch New
Guinea, and on his death in the wilds there,
she returned to Melbourne with her small
daughter. Lafayette made the portrait.
The Tom Smiths have lent the fine ball-
room of their Toorak home, Grong Grong,
for a dance organised by Mrs. Eric Harri-
son, wife of Wing-Commander Harrison. The
hop is intended to provide the first contri-
bution towards an Air Force Trust Fund for
officers’ wives and children.
A link with infant Melbourne was snapped
Si e of Mrs - Fanu .V Agnes Buxton,
ot St. Kilda-road, relict of a former city
alderman. Her first husband was surveyor
Robert Hoddle, who laid out Melbourne
when Vic. was an appanage of N.S.W The
lady was in her 88th year.
The newest beach frocks have a bit
chopped out of the back to accentuate sun-
basking effects, whether genuine or artificial.
I his, of course, paves the way for the use
of smart flowered coats when the tempera-
ture goes down or after a game of tennis.
When the additions to Vic. Parliament
House are completed there will be, facing
the charming gardens, a terrace on which
tea from the adjoining refreshment-room can
be served. Should the division bells ring it
will be easy for members who are playing
hosts to slip away for a few minutes and
return without having to descend or ascend
stairways. The new wing would have been
just about completed but for the timber
trouble. It looks as if the additional accom-
modation provided—lounges and refectories—
will be very popular, and they will help to
make the House more homey.
The scholarly brpw and thoughtful mien'
here depicted belong to painter Dick
McCann. It
is three years
since he asked
the public to
come and judge
his work, and
on September
10 Education
Minister Cohen
will open a
show of his
pictures at the
A then ;eum.
Landscapes in
oils will be the
only canvases
submitted on
this occasion.
Mr. McCann,
who graduated
f r o m the
National Gal-
lery, frequent-
ed the studios
and galleries
of Europe for a couple of years. He began
his career as an artist for the Argtjs, and is
a clever draughtsman. Marietta is respon-
sible for the picture.
.Commissioner Clapp is determined that
American hospitality shan’t compare unfavor-
ably with ours when we entertain the 350
Yanks aboard the luxury liner Malolo, due
here in November. Visitors during that
month usually have a busy time socially, but
this lot will work overtime, judging by the
many organisations preparing a welcome.
The Travel Association is determined that
the expected ones shall have a good time,
and manager Gollan is leaving his bureau
while he sails to Batavia to greet the
visitors and. prepare them for the sights and
scenes ahead.
The time limit for the Women’s Hospital
appeal for £lOO,OOO draws near, and a
charity queen competition is being depended
upon to gather in the greater portion of the
required sum. Among the six queens nomi-
nated to date is Mrs. Barry Thomson, who
is the choice of the movie interest. Her
entrance into the field was given an intro-
ductory lift by an afternoon tea party host-
essed by Mrs. P Lock at Menzies’. Another
entertainment to support Mrs. Thomson’s
candidature will be a theatrical carnival at
the Exhibition oval some time in October.
An art union is being run in connection with
the queen competition, and each shilling
ticket counts as 12 votes towards the candi-
date supported by the holder. Sales have
been brisk. A racehorse, yet untried, is the
first prize in the lottery.
E. A. Vidler, who some eight years ago
founded the circle known, as the Institute of
Arts and Literature and since then has
taken an active part in its affairs as sec-
retary, received recognition from his associ-
ates at a recent gathering. The president,
A. Grenby Outhwaite, handed over an easy-
ehair, and a purse of sovereigns and a posy
were pressed upon Mrs. Vidler by Mrs. Doug-
las Richardson, professionally known as
sculptor Margaret Baskerville. Of those
who gave testimony to Mr. Vidler’s services
in the cause of artistic and literary develop-
ment was G. King, director of the Gordon
.Institute of Technology, Geelong.
_ The weather luck of Moonee Valley Racing
Club held good for the marriage of Lorn a,
younger daughter of A. V. Hiskens, the
club’s secretary, and Mrs. Hiskens. to Har-
old Andrew, only son of the H. A. Ander-
sons, of The Grove, Geelong. Peach blos-
som formed a bower at Scots’ Kirk, where
the bride’s uncle, the Rev. John Barnaby,
tied the knot. The guest list of about 300
read like the roster of a Cup-day gathering
at the Valley. The after-rejoicings were
held at the Hiskens homstead, where flowers
and wedding-presents vied for attention. A
pink-draped marquee sheltered the tea-party.
The Bulletin’s Service Department got
unexpected mention by the bridegroom, who,
in the course of his reply to the toast of
the newly-weds, said he could answer a re-
cent query on the Page regarding the origin
of “wind up.” White satin, with seed pearls
about the waist-line forming a true lover’s-
knot, and similar embellishment upon the
court train was the bride’s choice, her
lengthy Limerick veil depending from a
haloed head-dress of wee white flowers. Her
small niece, Sheila Irving, in a Kate Greena-
way frock of white satin, zealously guarded
the draperies. A well-matched quartette of
maids sported tourmaline-pink georgette
frocks and shady crinoline millinery. Of
the four was Hetty Anderson, partnered
by Robert Jamieson, whom she will wed in
December. Tennis-champion Jack Hawkes
was another of the groomsmen. Mrs. His-
kens gave greeting in black-lace gown and
hat, and carried a bouquet of crimson roses.
Another wedding during the week was
that of Rosewyn Boughton, daughter of
the/ H. W- Osbornes, of East Kew, to
W. Keith Christian. The bride wore white
satin, which parted into a double-pointed
train, to which an overlay of Brussels laee
and tulle lent softness. Two maids and a
matron of honor atended her in frocks of
apricot-pink chiffon, featuring the fashion-
able dip, and their Baku hats to match. The
supper was laid at Menzies’.
Early last week Mrs. Edgar Dye, presi-
dent of the almoners’ department of Mel-
bourne Hospital, assembled fellow helpers
and some other interested folk to drink tea
at the Quamby Club with the just arrived
almoner, Agnes Mclntyre. Miss Mclntyre
lias been attached to St. Thomas’s Hospital,
London, for 12 years, and is head of the
Northcotc Trust Department dealing with
the after-care of necessitous hospital patients.
She has been engaged to stay here for a
year, when it is expected matters will be
well advanced, and things going along
smoothly. Miss Mclntyre should know some-
thing about us, for she visited Australia on
two previous occasions, the last about nine
years ago.
All pink of various tints, even to the
cake, was the wedding of Jean McHarg, only
daughter of Mrs. McHarg, of Ellerton,
Toorak, with Captain Desmond B. Maffett,
of Camperdown, at Scots’ Kirk last week.
The bride, who is a well-known follower
of the hounds, arrested the eye in her
faint rose-satin gown. Limerick lace trailed
from the shoulders, and a flesh-toned tulle
veil fell from a coronet of orange buds set
about the centre of her coiffure. A sheaf
of blooms blended with the glad attire.
Billowy tulle frocks deeply flounced with
peach-pink taffeta, and straw hats in unison,
were chosen by the three attendant maids.
The health of the just-united was drunk
at the home of the bride’s uncle and aunt,
the Andrew Mcllargs, of Armadale, Mrs.
James McHarg and her sister-in-law doing
the honors.
That every pleasure has its corresponding
pain is illustrated in the annual report oi
the Alfred Hospital. Motor-cars were respon-
sible for 505 casualties treated, more than
double the number in the previous year, and
the treatment of victims cost the institu-
tion over £3OOO. Out-patients to the number
of 49,500 and 6462 in-patients were doctored.
The committee is perturbed over its bank
overdraft, and is seeking permission to
make a public appeal for funds.
That veteran voice-producer Madame
Conly has discovered another singer of
much promise in Augusta. Poole, who has a
first-class voice only requiring careful devel-
opment and more bodily strength. At a
recital in the Australian Hall, Miss Poole
sang numbers by Gluck, Schumann, Brahms
and Handel with ease and sweetness before
a friendly and enthusiastic audience.
Mrs. Mausley Greer, widow of the popu-
lar organist and conductor, is packing her
cabin-trunk for an overeas trip towards the
end of the vear. While in Paris she will
be the guest of Mrs. J. Dyer.
Lately it appeared as if the fad of imita-
tion jewellery was.dying out here, but fashion
dictates otherwise. A perfect avalanche of
this sort of stuff has been let loose
in leading shops during the last few
days. Necklaces of glittering beads made
up' of all sizes appear in every color
and conglomeration of hues, and can be
obtained to match any frock. There are
tight chokers of big beads and long ropes ot
smaller ones twisted and plaited, and the
smallest beads of all form cascades of innum-
erable glistening strings with a bizarre
Oriental clasp. Sets of these adornments
consist of necklet, earrings, brooch, bracelet
and an imposing ring.
In Paris a new sort of scarf has won
favor. It is made of silk strands finished
with two large tassels of a different color,
and worn hanging over the back, one tassel
reaching to the waist-line. Another new
accessory is the fob, as worn by our grand-
parents. A popular actress set the style
by appearing at Deauville with a fob of
rubies and black onyx carved to represent
red and black currants. It caught the femi-
nine fancy, and now every fashion-monger
sports a fruit fob of grapes, cherries or
small plums fashioned from real or imita-
tion stones. This idea has spread to the
posy for evening wear, which has also taken
on 'a fruity suggestion, grapes of cut emer-
alds, pearl currants and topaz loquats set
amidst emerald leaves decorating the smart
girl’s shoulder.
As a preliminary to Madame Joy
McArden’s concert, Madame Crivelli poured
tea at the Wattle on Thursday afternoon for
the singer, her husband, Dr. Demarquette
and several friends and music-lovers.


è
\ *
V \\; .
%, \'A
VxN
"XVI
$> *"•
: K
IX
X M X!l
Mr ■ ' 7 >
V\. ,\sX> V . ‘"WWW
: * .?■;«
. X »»**
AYREFIELD is the
personification of good
taste in headgear. The
excellent design, quality
and finish appeal to men
of discriminating taste.
Why not judge for yourself the hard-
wearing, shape-retaining merits of this
distinctive hat ? Then . . your future
choice will be, invariably, Fayrefield!
Choose from an extensive range of
shapes, shades and sizes.
a^XQ^eld
Share ih eir Meriis with None
Obtainable at all the
leading M en’s Stores
A PRODUCT
OF UNITED FELT HATS PTY. LTD.
Fl 6.


Accommodation
160.
Centra],
Comfortable,
Convenient,
5 Mts. G.P.O.
Excellent
Cuisine,
Billiards,
Dancing.
ORIENTAL HOTEL
(No License)
KING’S CROSS, SYDNEY.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET.
TARIFF:
Weekly,
£3/3/- to
£4/4/-
Daily,
11/6 to 12/6.
Room & B’fast,
876 to 9/6
FL2034
F 3575
INVESTMENT-SAVINGS
ACCOUNTS.
ACCUMULATING FUNDS FOR THE
FUTURE PURCHASE OF GILT-
EDGED SECURITIES.
An Investment-Savings Plan of unusual
attractiveness to the Investor of moderate
means is offered by The Australian Invest-
ment Trust, Limited. Accounts bearing 44
p.c. per annum may be opened, in which
funds can be accumulated by easy instalment
payments spread over two years. Funds in
Accounts will then be converted into Deben-
tures and/or Shares at par in the capital
of the Trust. There are several different
classes of holdings available at the option
of the applicant. The subscribed capital of
the Trust exceeds £300,000, and the Board
of Directors comprises the following well-
known financial and commercial leaders:
F. J. L. Dunlop, Chairman and Managing
Director; Sir Hugh E. Poynter, Bart.,
F.R.G.S.; R. Neville Dangar; W. 11. Swan-
ton; and Keith Williams, LL.B.
The issue of Accounts is limited, and inves-
tors are advised to apply at once for full
particulars of this sound and profitable
investment opportunity to The Australian
Investment Trust, Limited, 17 O’Connell
Street, Sydney. —Advt.
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. O. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: THE FIVE-
O’CLOCK GIRL.
ROYAL: THE SQUEAKER,
CRITERION: LOMBARDI, LTD.
PALACE: THE KENTUCKY SINGERS.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
SHOW BOAT.
ROYAL:
JOURNEY’S END.
ING ’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
WHOOPEE.
UOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
11 MELBOURNE.
LADY OF THE NIGHT.
With LUPE VELEZ and WILLIAM BOYD.
ALSO
ALL SHORT TALKIES.
Legal Notices.
D E KATHLEEN CONSTANCE KEOGH
A late of Bulimba in the State of Queens-
land Widow deceased.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all
persons claiming to be entitled to the
estate of the above-named KATHLEEN
CONSTANCE KEOGH or any part thereof
and PARTICULARLY WILLIAM RALPH
KEOGH a lawful son of the said deceased
are hereby required to forward proof of
their claims to the Public Curator Brisbane
on or before the thirty-first day of October
1929 AND THAT after the expiration of
the aforesaid date the Public Curator will
proceed to distribute the assets of the said
deceased disregarding the claims of which
he shall not have had notice and of ail per-
sons claiming by through or under them or
any of them by derivative title or otherwise
howsoever.
DATED this twenty-fourth day of August,
1929
R. J. S. BARNETT,
Official Solicitor to the Public Curator,
Brisbane.
’T'O CHARLES RALPH TREVORROV
* formerly of Mitcham in the State of
South Australia Barman.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation bearing
date the 14th day of June 1929 has been
issued in the Supreme Court of South Aus-
tralia citing you to appear and answer the
petition of Phyllis May Trevorrow of 33
Stephen Terrace Walkerville in the State
of South Australia married woman praying
for a dissolution of her marriage with you
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for five years and upwards
and TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that you
are within 30 days of this publication to
attend in person or by your solicitor at the
office of the Master Supreme Court House
Victoria Square Adelaide there to enter an
appearance in the suit In default of your
so appearing you will not be allowed to
address the Court and the Court will pro-
ceed to hear the said petition proved and to
pronounce judgment in respect thereto in
your absence.
DATED the thirtieth day of July, 1929.
W. L. STUART,
Master.
Charles Arthur Sandery, Government
Buildings, King William Street, Adelaide,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
Missing Friends.
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of
FREDERICK ROY JOHNSTON, late
of Parkside, South Australia, kindly com-
municate with Melhuish, Victoria Square,
Adelaide.
TONES, JAMES SYDNEY, eldest son of
J late J. C. Jones, Mt. Keira, please com-
municate J. W. RUSSELL, Solicitor, Wol-
longong. Information his benefit.
Unclaimed Money, Persons Wanted or
Next of Kin.
BOA RO MAN, Dorothy, age about 21, daughter of
William Boardma'n, born in Manchester, England,
1862.
BRYANT, Eliza, formerly of Brixton (married name
unknown), came to Australia 60-70 years ago.
ELLIOTT, Francis William, formerly of Smeeton
Westerby, Leicestershire, England, came to Aus-
tralia 1876.
GEMMELL, William Jackson, formerly of Scotland.
GINDER, Frank Frederick, formerly of England.
HOLDER, James, Isaac, Albina, Martha (after-
wards Nicholson), children of Charles Holder
(farmer), died 1868.
JARRATT, William Edward, born in England about
1869.
JOHNS, George, who left Armagh, near Clare, South
Australia, about 1886.
MULCASTER, John, and sister Rebecca Falice Evans.
McCULLOCH, Dora Maria Rose Cunningham, formerly
of County Down, Ireland.
MORRISSEY, Francis, formerly of Ilawera, N.Z.
MULLINS, Elizabeth, late of Kensington, Adelaide,
South Australia.
RUDWICK, Samuel, left England in or about 1862.
ROSSITER, Catherine, formerly of Dublin, Ireland,
1834.
ROCHE, David Edward Valentine, believed to have
been formerly of New Zealand.
STUART, Percy Wallace, who left England over
50 years ago for Australia.
TUXFORD, George Weston, formerly of Henley
Beach, S.A.
TAYLOR, Annie Oiea Chambers), or husband, James
Taylor.
WILLIAMS, Margaret (formerly Marnane), and her
sons Edward George Williams, and Henry Patrick
Williams.
WARE, Philip John Samuel and Edgar Leonard
Ware, formerly of Broken Hill, N.S.W.
Write Mr. Teller, 16 Pirie Street, Adelaide,
immediately.
FOR THAT UNEXPECTED!.;VISITOR
CAPTAIN CRAB
SPECIALLY
SELECTED
CLAW MEAT
f?REE
BOOK
COLOURED
FROM
YOUR
G*ocwr
Losing Your Hair?
&
Vi-Glo’will Vi-Glowill
Slop it! Stop it!
Too late for
Vi-Glo.'
To be bald is to be a joke! Fate showers her gifts
on the alert, young-looking' men and women. Once
you’re bald you’re beyond hope—save your hair
while you can. “Vi-Glo” will do it! This is a
NEW, Scientific, non-watery, lion-greasy preparation
that gets to the hair roots and revitalises them to
such an extent that the new hair grown actually
possesses a natural waviness that improves one’s looks
tremendously! “Vi-Glo” stops Dandruff! “Vi-Glo”
wards off and banishes premature Greyness ! “Vi-Glo”
gives the hair new Youth! ■ Price 3/-, complete with
special Free “bay-rum” Shampoo. Get “Vi-Glo” from
any Chemist’s or Stores, or post 3/4 for outfit to
the Vi-Glorient Company, Kembla Building, Sydney.
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d.
It deals r ith every • subject of
interest to women.
Alan Kippax’s
e
BATS
All Selected and Auto-
graphed by Patsy
Hendren, including the
autograph bats of the
following players:
JACK GREGORY
ARCHIE JACKSON
WALTER HAMMOND
WARREN BARDSLEY,
DON BRADMAN
J. B. HOBBS
and
ALAN KIPP AX.
Order one now and let
us thoroughly oil it for
you.
Write for a Catalogue.
N.S.W. Sports
Store, Ltd.
26 Martin Place, Sydney.
Alan Kippax, Director.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Center of Queensland's
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Since Parliament opened no member lias
attracted more flattering attention than
Irene Longman, the State’s flrst woman
member. The lady lawmaker is following'
the male custom of not wearing a hat.
Max Aronsten’s concert in the Albert Hall
was well attended. Nancy Muirhead sang
in rose-du-barry mariette and crystal with
a gold and black Egyptian design. Violinist
Marion Wilson was in rose mariette and
silver. Many flowers were handed to the two
girls. Robert Kaye played the accompani-
ments, and must have felt proud of his
pupil, whose rich baritone brought him many
encores.
The Australia was dressed up for a dance
when Rear-Admiral Evans and the officers of
the flagship and her sister Canberra gave an
at-home to a large number of guests. The
quarter-deck was cleared for dancing and en-
closed with flags and bunting. Strings of
many-liued electric lights illumined the deck,
and chains of Oriental lanterns swung over-
head. Palm fronds and greenery with a large
anchor of bougainvillaea against a screen of
ferns were part of the scheme, and a dummy
diver in inflated dress stood opposite the
ship’s lifeboat. The Australia’s band played.
Lupin and sweet-peas, in silver cup§, deco-
rated the supper tables
Lady Goodwin wore Romaine red-silk lace
with a short shoulder cape and handkerchief-
peaked skirt. Mrs. Clive Reid was in ivory
pussy-willow; Mrs. .1. 11. Cannan chose
powder-blue mariette with brocaded blue and
silver georgette; Mrs. F. Lorenzo was in
black Chantilly lace; Mrs. B. C. Bell sported
Egyptian red mariette; Mrs. E. Bell, black
Chantilly and georgette; Una Bell, black
lace and daffodils; Dorothea Collins, steel
tissue.
Sir John and Lady Goodwin went to Nell
Kerwin’s wedding at St. Stephen’s. It was
a naval affair, the bridegroom being Lieut. -
Commander Alfred D. Condor, of H.M.A.S.
Moi’esby, only son of the Hartwell Condors,
Strahan(Tas.) ; the bride, Eleanor Katherine,
is the only daughter of Dr. and Mrs. P. J.
Kerwin, of New Farm. The high altar was
decked with arum-lilies; the sanctuary with
brass jars of azalea, white lilies, stock and
sweet-peas. White heath, freesia and stock
marked the guests’ pews. Lady Goodwin wore
black mariette and silver, with a white
broidered scarf and black-and-silver tulle
toque. Rear-Admiral Evans was amongst
the guests. Archbishop Duhig, assisted by
Father Jones of the Canberra and Father
O’Connor, tied the knot.
The bride wore white mariette and silver,
with a veil of ivory Limerick lace, liaud-
broidered in a design of lilies. A semi-
circlet of orange-blossom was head-dress, and
her shower boimuet was of dahlias, freesias,
white roses, daffodils and primroses. Kath-
leen Cobcroft. Nancy McCowan and Cecily
Walsh ’maided in gold lace over gold mousse-
line, with touches of petal pink and a trail
of velvet nasturtiums at the right of the
skirt. Nasturtium-tinted crin hats swathed
in velvet were also worn, and baskets of
nasturtiums, wallflowers and pansies were
carried. Brother officers from the Moresby
formed a guard of honor.
Dr. and Mrs. A. B. Steele gave a dance
at their home towards the funds of the “Sing
a Song of Sixpence” stall at the Nursery-
rhymes Fete. A Bedouin tent was set at the
entrance to the garden in sand-dune sur-
roundings. Incense burned in the reception-
rooms, and brass bowls of bougainvillaea,
bunches of bananas and branches of oranges
and lemons hung from the ceiling. Chinese
lanterns and a fortune-teller in a turban
contributed to the Oriental atmosphere. At
supper the guests had to squat on divans.
Qantas Pilot Brain, the man who found
Keith Anderson and Hitchcock and gener-
ally gave such a striking demonstration of
his efficiency as an airman in the days fol-
lowing the casting-away of the Southern
Cross, has added to his laurels by winning,
for the second year in succession, the Aerial
Derby, a handicap event. He piloted a 60-
h.p. Moth, and his time for the race, 20min.
20sec., was only lmin. 16 2-ssec. behind
fastest time, made by a 220-h.p. machine.
Brain won principally through his clever
cornering.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
’lbis portrait shows J. R. Oberlin Harris,
headmaster at Hutchins School, Hobart. He
returns in that
capacity to old
friends and
scenes, having
been boy and
master there
before passing
on to master-
ships at Laun-
ceston, Mel-
bourne and
Sydney. For
the last 25
years he has
been in charge
of Robson
House at Syd-
ney C. of E.
Gram m a r
School, except
d u ring the
war year s,
when he served
with the 3rd
Battalion, A.1.F., 1915-18, rising to the
rank of major. He'was twice mentioned in
despatches for his work at Pozieres and
Flers.
Premier McPliee presented the prizes
gained at the July concourse of the Alliance
Francaise at Elboden House. Mdlle
Golembiowski. who has been a tower of
strength to the society, was presented with
a purse of sovereigns from the president
(Mrs. Dobson) and members of the Alliance.
Mrs. Benson arranged a remarkably good
musical programme of songs, choruses and
solos.
Launceston Church Grammar School's
Ball in the Albert Hall was the bright
event of the northern capital’s week. The big
room was festooned with flags and the school
colors, blue, black and white. The stage was
furnished as a lounge, and decorated with
peach-blossem and palms. Headmaster and
Mrs. Adams received the guests, among
whom were Mayor and Mayoress Osborne,
Bishop Snowden Hay and a huge throng of
interested townsfolk.
WESTRALIA. *
Perth.
The Country Women’s Association has had
a purposeful week. First of all the Gover-
nor opened the seaside home at Cottesloe,
where there w T as afternoon tea in the flower-
decked lounge of the house. Next day Lady
Campion unleashed the tongues of members
at the annual conference, at which Mrs.
Fisher, of Beverley, presided, and many pro-
blems were discussed.
Every Women’s Association, Guild. League,
Federation and Society rallied to the Town
Hall to list to the words of Dame Janet
Campbell relating to maternal mortality.
May Holman, M.L.A., supported by Miss
Holmes and Miss Bromham, welcomed the
visitor, and Miss Hooton, Mrs. Cowan, Mrs.
Vallance, Mrs. D. Rutherford and others
were speakers.
The Kindergarten Union held a citizens’
luncheon, at which an account was given of
the work being accomplished. President
Darbyshire explained the aims of the kinder-
gartens, and a practical demonstration was
given by the pupils of the Mt. Hawthorn
Free Kindergarten under the supervision of
Mary Priest. On Violet Day the band of
helpers plied not only violets but all manner
of spring flowers, and the sale of buttons
swelled the harvest.
The Perth Museum and Art Gallery is
exhibiting a
tapestry panel
in black silk
on ivory can-
vas, depicting
the Western
Aus trali.an
black sw a n
surr o u n d e d
with water-
lilies, bu 1-
rushes a n d
iris. The artist
is Mrs. A. Rich-
ards. Further
specimens of
her skill will
lie seen at the
Centenary Ex-
hibit i o n of
Women ’s
Work, to be
opened at the
end of this
month. Mrs.
Richards, seen alongside, is the widow of
Mr. Albert Richards, of Woorooloo.
Temple Court cabaret was the scene of
the Christian Brothers’ College dance, where
the ages of the dancei’s ranged from 8 to 80.
One lady took the floor with her grandson.
The ballroom was hung with lanterns and
premier pennants in crimson and black, and
the Mayoress was presented with a bouquet
of roses tied with the same colors. Arch-
bishop Clunc was accompanied by Father
Prendeville, and was received by Brother
Cougdon. Mrs. Franklin wore black georg-
ette, silver embroidered; Mrs. Walter Dwyer
was striking in pale-gold satin wrought with
crystals; Madame Antoine had red and white
diamente flecked on her black georgette; and
Mrs. Ahern’s black was relieved with a soft
blue shoulder spray. Beth Hatch danced in
cerise chiffons and Mollie Dunphy in a
hyacinth combination of lace and ninon
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The Federal amusement tax will hit Adel-
aide far harder than any other city. Already
theatre-goers pay 2s. 6d. on a 10s. ticket, as
against lOd. in the other States.
The Legion of Frontiersmen held its dance
in the Freemasons’ Hall. The Legion is an
exceedingly well-supported organisation;
Brigadier-General Leane and Colonel H. G.
Viney are prominent members.
Madame Delmar Hall arranged an attrac-
tive programme, vocal and instrumental, by
past pupils of the Elder Con. It was an
innovation, and one thoroughly appreciated.
Dead suddenly in Adelaide, G. F. Michell,
a veteran lawyer, who accented the second
syllable in his name to distinguish it from
that of the better-known Mitchell. Music
was Mr. Michell’s hobby; for over 25 years
he was organist at an Unley church.
One of the features of the Square Club
Ball was the goodly number of mature
couples who took the floor and fox-trotted as
gaily as the younger ones. George E. Lane
(president), with an energetic committee,
brought together a crowd of 400-odd. Phyl-
lis and Peggy Leitch, assisted by Consie Ure,
contributed special dance numbers.
At the Victoria Park races many disconso-
late women wandered about with dripping
hat-brims and faces washed clean of powder.
Some found the ordeal too much and left
early. His Ex. was present with his new
hyphened A.D.C. and Legh Winser in attend-
ance. The Lud Mayor and Mayoress braved
the weather, the latter in her antelope coat,
with collar and cuffs of skunk and a small
brown felt hat.
His Ex., accompanied by daughter Mar-
garet and attended by private-sec. N. E.
Somers, patronised the ball at Richmond in
aid of funds for the R.C. church in that parish.
The Town Hall was packed with dancers,
and supper was served for the vice-regal
party in the old council chambers—a mar-
quee held the less distinguished. Miss
Marie Brettingham Moore worked hard as
hon. sec.; and Margaret O’Grady’s red
romaine frock was a very effective splash of
color.


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
T)in!ng Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
&-
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors.
BRISBANE.
Food
Read. Tra.uk Mask.
Nothing
so soothing
for Aged persons and Invalids
as Benger’s Food.
Doctors recommend a nightly
cup of Benger’s as the finest
thing to ensure a good night’s
rest.
Write for booklet to: —BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
), Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
Tried
For more than 136 years public
opinion has endorsed the value of
Rowland’s Macassar Oil as a means
of keeping the hair in perfect con-
dition and preventing thin or grey
hair.
aid’s
Maca§§arOll
In bottles, of
C h e m i sts.
Stores and
Hair dressers.
Red for dark
hair; gulden
for fair or
grey hair.
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, London, W.C.1.,
ENGLAND. c.t.J',67.
flash of dripping oar blades, heard the
creaking of rowlocks loose in their plates,
and the whaleboat, like a grotesque beetle
crawling on the blue water, was heading
for the land.
A wrinkled old crone, too decrepit for
the working gang, screamed out from the
platform of her hut.
“Oh, Loana! Warn Sabatari, your father,
that the Gavamani is coming. Terrible is
the wrath of Sabatari the policeman when
the Gavamani comes unexpectedly to
Akupaka.”
“I hear, old one,” Loana answered. “Think
you that I know nothing of the ways of
Sabatari, my father?”
She thrust her head through the tiny
doorway of her father’s house, and called
softly.
“Oh my father! Awake! The Gavamani
is here.”
Sabatari roused himself, grumbling un-
ceasingly. He hurriedly donned a new uni-
form, worn only on ceremonious occasions,
and, thrusting a pair of rusty handcuffs in
his belt, scrambled down the rickety ladder
to the ground.
He glanced up and down the street, noting
with great satisfaction that it was clear
of the usual litter of dead leaves, decaying
vegetable matter and garbage. He looked
at the rest-house, its new roof of dried nipa-
palm glinting dully in the sunshine, and,
polishing his handcuffs industriously on the,
skirt of his sulu, he awaited with calm
confidence the arrival of the magistrate.
Loana twisted a cluster of scarlet blossoms
in her hair, changed her violently-colored
loincloth for one snowy white, and put on
a frontlet of Job’s-tears and attached to
her pierced lobes eardrops of the same
delicate grey seeds. Loana’s sense of color
was unerring.
Sabatari watched her preparations with
grim disapproval. Loana observed his dis-
pleasure and pouted mutinously. A crafty
grin spread over her father’s face.
I* is m y mind, Loana,”. he began
amiably, that it would be an act of friend-
liness to warn the white man Sam that
the Gavamani
is here. He is
my friend,
th e r efore go
you and warn
him.”
“Not so, my
father,” she re-
plied. “These
many sleeps I
have awaited
with patience
the coming of
the Gavamani.
1 have much to
say to Mis’
Bileki, who is
my father and
my mother,
concerning”
Sabatari
seized her by
the wrist and dragged her forward so that
her face was close to his. For a moment
black eyes glared into black eyes; then
Loana turned away, hanging her head.
“O fool!” the old man hissed venomously.
“Would you bring ruin upon your father’s
head? Would you have him lose his
clothes? [Get dismissed.] Is it not an
order that you hold your peace concern-
ing the Laubogi taubada?” Sabatari shook
her savagely. “There are ways, woman, of
teaching wisdom to foolish jades. Corporal
Konigi has many pigs and much money”
“No! No!” the girl screamed. “Why
are my ears made sick with talk of the
Kiwai corporal? Why” She tore her-
self free from her father’s clutch and stood
off panting. The defiant light died out of
her eyes, to be replaced by a look of fear.
“I go, my father,” she said in a low
voice. Then, tearing the scarlet blossoms
from her hair, she strode off in the direction
of Laubogi.
“You will not return until the Gavamani
has departed,” Sabatari called after her.
The girl raised her hand in token of
assent, and continued on her way.
Stephen Blake was ashamed; ashamed of
his errand, ashamed of himself.
Sabatari stood stiffly at attention, and,
saluting, led the way to the rest-house.
The police, followed by a crowd of villagers,
brought up the rear. Blake’s eyes took
in the trim aspect of the village, the absence
of litter, the tidy appearance of the huts,
and his curt word of praise brought a grin
of gratification to Sabatari’s face.
Arrived at the rest-house, Blake sat down.
Soon the male population of Akupaka—
sulky, heavy-eyed—crowded into the com-
pound, squatting on their haunches.
“Let the girl Loana be brought,” he
said abruptly. “I would have words with
her. And let the people return to their
houses.”
Sabatari translated Blake’s Motuan into
the Akupaka dialect. The villagers rose
with alacrity and filed away.
Sabatari looked queerly at Blake. “The
girl Loana is gone on a journey, Taubada,”
he said.
“Then let swift runners be despatched to
bring her back,” Blake ordered brusquely.
He turned to Sergeant Babaka. “Make
camp, Sergeant. To-night, we sleep at.
Akupaka.”
Sabatari’s eyes were on the blue-veiled
hills. He was ill at ease and a little
puzzled.
“Sabatari shook her savagely. ‘There are ways, woman,
of teaching wisdom to foolish jades!’”
“It was in the mind of my daughter,”
he began in an apologetic voice, “to plague
the ears of the Gavamani with vain woman’s
talk concerning the Laubogi taubada. There-
fore, I, her father, sent her”——
“It is an order that she be brought back,”
Blake cut in.
Sabatari saluted and departed on his
errand. The police rigged a shower bath
on the back verandah. Blake bathed and
changed, and, having eaten a light lunch,
called Babaka to him.
“You will take your mid-day meal in
the long-house with the old men,” he
ordered. “Take with you gifts of 'bulluma-
cow’ [tinned beef] and tobacco that their
tongues may be loosened, and, later, tell
me of the village gossip.”
The shadows were lengthening when
Loana, accompanied by her father and the
sergeant, arrived at the rest-house. The
fierce heat had abated and there was an
awakening of life in the village.
A triumphant light dwelt in Loana’s
eyes when she stood before the magistrate.
She looked demurely at her feet and folded
her hands over her breasts. Blake spread
a mat upon the floor and invited her to
be seated. Sabatari eyed her covertly.
There was a rapid interchange of words.
“You may go, Sabatari.” Blake’s voice
was bland. The village constable looked
hurt. “And you also, Sergeant.” Babaka
blinked. “Remain at the foot of the steps,
that no man may approach secretly and
overhear our words.”
He dismissed the two
mystified old men with a
wave of his hand.
Loana threw him a
swift, grateful glance and
sat down. She thanked
him shyly when he gave
her cigarettes, and her
eyes widened as he bent
down and proffered a
lighted match. Loana
exhaled a cloud of
smoke. Her eyes never
left Blake’s face.
“You are not married
yet, Loana?” Blake re-
marked after a while.
He saw Loana wince,
saw an expression of
doubt come into her
eyes; and again a sense
of shame possessed him.
Loana puffed her cigar-
ette, smiling at him
bravely. “You speak
strange words, Taubada,”
she answered. “I have
been married these many years.”
Blake averted his head, saying nothing.
His manhood revolted, his innate honesty
rebelled, every instinct in him recoiled from
the task he had imposed upon himself. He
was the representative of the Government,
of justice, law, order and fair play, and
he was about to prostitute his high office
—for what? The face of Lesley Merton
floated before his mental vision, her sweet-
ness and all her sensitive, innocent beliefs
in the man whose name was hers.
Loana must not be allowed to stand in
the way of Lesley’s happiness.
He cleared his throat, his brows gathered
in a frown. He tried not to see the unease
in Loana’s fine eyes.
“You are speaking foolishness, my girl,”
he said coldly. “Mis’ Merton, whom you
call Hari, has married a woman of his own
kind and color according to the laws of the
white man. It is not of him I would
speak.” He made an airy gesture of dis-
missal. Loana’s face had suddenly grown
bleak. “I come with a message from Konigi,
the corporal, who these many moons has
looked at you with eyes of love. Already
he has sent presents to Sabatari, your
father; already he has”
“No, Taubada,” Loana interrupted dog-
gedly. “Hari is the white man whose wife
I am. And so I come to you, the Gava-
mani, that justice may be done.
Her artless request, with all its implica-
tions, stabbed Blake like a knife. Never-
theless, he stared at her coolly, a lie on
his lips, self-loathing in his heart.
“There has been no injustice, my girl.
The white man extracted no pledge from
you, nor you from him; no bond was im-
posed by the signing of papers and the
bestowal of a ring. Therefore let us talk
no more of the white man Hari, but of
Konigi the corporal of police.”
“Not so, Taubada!” Loana’s voice was
assertive, defiant. With a supple movement
of her loins she was on her feet, her eyes
flashing fire. “I ask for law and for justice,
and the Gavamani mocks .me with a
Kiwai corporal!”
Her voice trailed off in a wail of dismay,
a sob strangled in her throat, and she sank
on her knees with arms outstretched in piti-
ful, dumb appeal.
Stephen Blake flinched. To him it
seemed that the agony, the despair, the
passionate longing of all women of all races
were concentrated in Loana’s anguished cry;
that this desperate, tortured native girl was
but a symbol of her sex, of the suffering,
the misery woman has endured at the ruth-
less hands of the questing male since the
beginning of time. Loana was showing him
the soul of Woman in torment, and the
sight revolted him. What could he say?
What could he do? His carefully thought-
out plan to seal the lips of Loana was
little short of loathsome.
“I go now, Taubada,” Loana moaned at
last. “But,” she added in a sudden burst
of ferocity, “to-night I will journey to
Laubogi that Hari may choose between
us.”
Blake rose instantly to his feet.
“And to-morrow, Loana,” he bit off the
words of his ultimatum savagely, lest he
should weaken—“to-morrow you shall be
given in marriage to Konigi the corporal;
given by Sabatari your father after the New
Guinea fashion. There will be feasting,
dancing and the beating of drums, that all
men may know you for the wife of Konigi,
according to the Akupaka law.” He paused,
eyeing her sternly. Loana shrank back from
him, covering her eyes with her hands.
“These are my words, Loana, the words of
the Gavamani. Forget Hari, the white man,
talk no more of going to Laubogi, and I
pledge you my word that you shall be left
in peace. Answer me, woman! Quickly!
I am weary with much talking.”
Loana caught her breath; her dusky skin
took on a tinge of grey, and in her eyes
was a horrible fear. She turned upon him,
raging like a she-panther fighting for her
cubs.
Sick to the heart, Blake took her gently
. by the shoulders, checking her torrent of
savage words.
“I am your friend, Loana,” he said very
gently. “Obey me in this matter, leave the
Laubogi sinabada in peace with her husband,
and there shall be no marriage feast in
Akupaka.”
Loana clenched her hands, looking at him
with frightened, furtive eyes.
“You claim to be my friend, Taubada;
yet your words are the words of an enemy,”
she muttered. She took a deep breath.
“Nevertheless, I must needs obey you, lest
worse should befall me. In peace I leave
Hari with his woman, and there will be
no more talk of giving me in marriage to
the Kiwai corporal.”
Blake nodded, masking his self-disgust.
(Continued on next page A


Modest Pride
?YEN the poorest gen-
'C-'tlewoman will not take
tea from heavy, unbeautiful
cups. Her tea service stands
for caste not cost —light, deli-
cate, comely. Shelley Tea
Services arc of varied prices
but of one quality: English
Bone China and Shelley
craftsmanship unite to ensure
this. The name of Shelley is
on every piece. There is a pat-
tern to please every lady’s taste
Ask TO SEE THE LATEST
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
• China
Nursery Warb
Zy Lucie Attweu
c- Hilda Cowh am
Domestic Ware
Jelly Moulds
• MT|*H MADE
m CASK OP AMY DIFFICULTY IH OBTAINING
waits to
DANGEROUS
Superficial cuts are easily
infected. Often they are a
cause of serious inflamma-
tion, and the formation of gather-
ings and abscesses.
Adopt safety-first measures even
with the most trifling skin troubles.
Carefully cleanse the sore place,
dry gently, smear on Zam-Buk,
then cover with a clean bandage.
Zam-Buk is not only most sooth-
ing, but it has definite antiseptic
properties. This refined herbal
balm takes away all soreness and
pain, kills blood-poison germs, and
soon, grows new skin.
Every home should have its handy bos
of Zam-Buk for burns, scalds, eczema,
ulcers bad legs, poisoned wounds, scalp
disease piles, etc. 1/6 and 3/6 box.
Mnfluii*
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
An Ideal Winter Home—The Most Sheltered Spot on the Harbor, with Private Beach and
Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service. Spacious Grounds
and Garage Accommodation.
Winter Tariff from 4j| guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip * rom City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines).
OA$
Here’s
Relief from
Rheumatism
Neuritis
Sciatica
Lumbago
\)t*y
to
35
pOs*
com
am
udei
vjo
fcism
o%
om
U Y\cum» GQut
Stve
vita
B\ig«
osy
e \\evmr>
tty
baS°
pesf
io*
Sjous
vet?
post
itVS
disco
sem
r\ev»
iv\e
atma
be\ov«
toTp
S cl
\i\ets
oft ev
o»
ita
da« ce
acc° T
' ' '
xdd*® 89
B il 9
tne(ou|>oa
ftftikis wond&tfuL
Vleu>lXkoo€)uf!
THIS coupon opens the way to a life-
time’s freedom from Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Neuritis, or any kindred
ailment. These complaints develop when
your system is unable to supply the neces-
sary oxygen for the creation of animal
heat and the exertion of muscular energy.
Keep the supply of this life-giving
element at a normal level and the ex-
cruciating pains of these complaints will
vanish for ever. Medical Science has
worked wonders in the administration of
oxygen. . . .it has concentrated this most
precious element.... this absolute vital
necessity into easily assimilated tablet
form OXYVITA.
Fill in the coupon and despatch together
with stamps or postal-notes to the value
of 4/6. . . .it will bring you 50 Oxyvita
tablets. ... 50 pain-saving, tasteless tab-
lets .... concentrated oxygen, double-
quick in action, yet harmless in composi-
tion. You’ll be astonished at your rapid
improvement. . . .delighted with your swift
recovery. Right from the start you will
feel the pains decrease in. intensity....
notice periods between attacks lengthen.
.... recovery is swift and permanent.
Since no man can deny what another 8
experience has taught him to be absolutely
true, we publish these testimonials from
sufferers to whom Oxyvita Tablets have
given wonderful relief.
Years of Pain Relieved by One Bottle.
Brisbane.
Dear Sirs,
Having been a martyr to sciatica for
some years I was advised to try your
Oxyvita Tablets, and accordingly purchased
a bottle, which I used with wonderful bene-
fit, and have since been entirely free from
this scourge.
On account of the great benefit derived, I
do not intend to ever be without a bottle
of these Tablets.
(Sgd.) e. McCaffrey.
Two Bottles Removed all
Pain of Acute Rheumatism.
Brisbane.
Dear Sirs,
For years I have suffered periodic attacks
of acute rheumatism. Ten months ago I was
prostrated as the result of a very severe
attack. I was persuaded to try Oxyvita
Tablets. After taking two bottles I was free
from pain, and have remained so. I intend
to continue taking Oxyvita as a preventive.
(Sgd.) J.B.
OX Y VITA
“It is cruel, this Gavamani,” Loana
moaned. “Nor is there any justice in the
land.” She paused, shivering as if with
fever. “Vaedaeni!” [“lt is finished.”]
She stumbled out of the room, making
little whimpering sounds like an animal
caught in a trap.
* * * *
Blake sat on the verandah of the rest-
house, his back against the sago-spathe wall,
eyeing with disfavor a compound of stringy
tinned beef and soggy sweet potatoes,
floating together in greasy intimacy, which
his cookboy called “sitoo.”
The soft Papuan night enfolded the earth.
From the village came the throbbing dull
cadence of pulsing drums, the crooning
voices of native singers chanting a mono-
tonous dirge. There was a flicker of fire-
flies in the trees, a fragrance of flowers,
heavy as incense in the air.
Blake ate mechanically, without appetite,
nor did the chef’s second offering tempt his
palate.
He felt that this had been a wearying day.
From the time he had sweltered off shore
in the whaleboat to the conclusion of his
sickening battle with Loana, it had been a
beastly day. Not even the comfort he
found in the thought that what he had
done he had done for Lesley’s sake could
efface the rqemory of Loana’s stricken face
and the anguish in her eyes as she had
stumbled, weeping, from his presence that
afternoon.
Ruthlessly he had crushed Loana; shame-
lessly he had abused his powers. But be-
hind it all, shining like a beacon light in a
chaos of darkness, was the knowledge that
he had silenced Loana. True man or
recreant knave; gallant gentleman or
unmitigated cad; upright judge or dastard,
he had made Lesley’s future safe.
CHAPTER XIII.
The Ghosts op Akupaka.
The pulsing of the drums died down, the
voices of the chanting villagers seemed to
fade in the air, and a silence fell upon the
village. Even the trumpeting of the tree-
frogs, the shrill chirping of the crickets,
all the familiar night sounds of the jungle
seemed suddenly muted.
Blake rose, and leaning over the verandah
rail stared into the darkness. He shivered.
An unwholesome night, he reflected—weird,
uncanny. A feeling of physical discomfort
fell upon him, and involuntarily he drew
back. He had an eerie sense of something
dangerous, sinister, being abroad in the
night. So vivid was the impression that
when he heard the sound of swift, stealthy
footsteps approaching the rest-house, in-
stinctively his fingers closed on the butt
of his automatic.
“Taubada!”
Blake started, then, feeling a little foolish,
resumed his seat.
“All right, Sergeant,” he called. “Come
up.”
Sergeant Babaka mounted the steps,
saluted, and at a sign from the magistrate
seated himself on the top step, his back
braced against the verandah post.
“To-night, Taubada,” said Babaka, “is the
night of the big dance.”
Blake glanced at his watch. He knew
then why the silence of the crypt had
descended upon Akupaka. It was the hour
before the rising of the moon—that dread
hour when the spirits of the dead return
to earth haunting the places with which
they had been familiar in life. Already the
men had retired to their cubicles in the
long-house and the women to their huts,
there to await in shuddering silence the
beat of the drum which would announce
the rising of the moon. Then they would
emerge from their hiding-places and cele-
brate with dance and song their deliverance
from the Powers of Darkness.
Babaka seemed to read what was passing
in his master’s mind.
“It is the Akupaka fashion, Taubada,”
he remarked.
Blake nodded. To the native Papuan the
spirit world is very real. The barking of
a dog, the snapping of twigs, the falling
of leaves in the dead hours of night are
to him the voices of disembodied wanderers
from the unseen world bent upon working
him a mischief. Blake had seen strong men
crouch behind bushes in quaking terror,
eyes shut, faces distorted, while they blindly
discharged arrows at their ghostly midnight
visitors.
The New Guinea fashion! Blake knew
it well.
He therefore listened to the sergeant’s
next remark without much interest.
“To-day, Taubada, I have heard strange
stories of devils in the likeness of men
who flit stealthily through the village after
the moon has died.”
“The vaporings of old men, Sergeant,”
Blake replied with a yawn, “made childish
by the burden of their years. We are men,
Sergeant, you and I, and at these things
we laugh.”
“True, Taubada,” Babaka assented.
“Nevertheless,” he continued in a serious
voice, “in the words of Sabadi, there is a
certain ring of truth.”
“Sabadi?”
“Sabadi, Taubada,” Babaka repeated,
“who in the days of his youth wore the
clothes of a ribbon policeman [armed con-
stable]. He has fought bushmen on the
big rivers of the North under magistrates
now long since dead, and he savees the ways
of the Gavamani. Moreover, he is the
father of many sons—all ribbon policemen, i
Taubada. To-day Sabadi is stricken in
years; toothless he is, and his skin hangs
loosely upon him. Nevertheless, his words
are the words of a wise man.”
Blake stared incredulously at the sergeant.
He had a distinct inclination to rebuke him.
Only the knowledge that Babaka was a man
of iron courage induced him to suspend a
too-hasty judgment. At the same time it
was disturbing to find that his trusted non-
com. had apparently accepted a ridiculous
village ghost story.
The native must have divined from
Blake’s face how the white man was feeling.
He broke out hastily: “These Akupaka
devils are ’nother kind, sah. They no all
same New Guinea devils; they walk-about
night-time all same man, sah.”
“Great Scott, Sergeant!” exclaimed Blake
in a burst of exasperation, “what kind of
talk is this? Has a sickness of the head
come upon you that your ears have been
opened to the foolish tales of doddering
old men?”
Babaka coughed uncomfortably.
“Your words are strong words, Taubada,”
he answered with immense dignity. “Never-
theless, these Akupaka devils whereof 1
speak are assuredly another kind.”
(To be continued next week.)
Statuette.
The sculptured girl upon the ledge
Beside the bowl of daphne flowers
Looks down into their red and white
All day. But in the lonely night
What whispers she of laurel bowers?
Of haunted shadows starry-bright
And summer-drenched Levantine hours?
Above my shining shelves of poets
She dreams demure with half-closed eyes,
And holds the weight of her long hair
Back from her neck and bosom bare ;
But when the human clamor dies
And leaves the room to quietening air
How swift her heavy lashes rise!
How wild her gaze across and out,
Beyond the lawns and wattle-gold
To where the southern waters blue
And tea-tree thickets close the view—
As wild as when her tale was told
In shades of spicy groves she knew
By red-walled Antioch of old!
VICTORIA.
ELSIE COLE.
The Writer.
Must I feel shamed before a Stranger’s gaze?
Must I abase my mind beneath his praise?
Shall I proclaim the hollowness within,
And strip his tawdry hero to the skin?
Little were left if he could see me so,
Bereft of all the pale reflected glow
And shorn of every meretricious grace—
Were I to tear the mask from' off my face!
To whom the good? The Stranger knows
me not,
But sees in me his own reflex: God wot
’Twere less than charity to undeceive
A soul whose only joy is to believe!
’Twere but through scurvy pride that I
should shrink
From seeming what his fancy bids him think.
Why rob him of his thoughts—however
vain ? ,
Must honesty be bought by giving pain?
Nay! Let me humbly thank the gods that be
That what I am he has no eyes to see,
But what he deems I am has, in a measure,
. Brought to this stranger-friend a little
pleasure!
S.A.
C. H. SOUTER.
The Wind that Blows Our Cares
Away.
I knew a man, an honest man,
H'e’s dead and in his grave to-day;
He told me of a magic wind
That blew his worldly cares away:
He said it came from Fairyland—
A little man, whose beard was grey.
His beard was grey that once was black—
That Time should change us so, alack!
That Time should change us, harking back!
That Time should change us so, alack!
Now I was young and he was old;
He spun me tales on threads of gold;
And as we went, and as we talked,
A Shadow by us strangely walked.
It was the shadow of the years!
We laughed and hid our human fears,
Who dwelled in shadow, for our song
Would muted be for overlong.
We knew that all our hopes and cares
And all our paltry world-affairs
Must shortly end, must surely be
Enveloped in Eternity.
I rowed him on a river wide,
With waving reeds on either side;
And in that glad and distant day
The north wind blew our cares away....
I watched him waiting, firm and grand,
The foremost poet in our land —
Since Keats, mayhap, no finer pen
Has written to the world of men;
I knelt beside him, still and cold,
Who’d woven tales in threads of gold.
I kissed his brow and bade farewell
To more than I could fitly tell;
But, in my heart, I knew that day
The wind had blown his cares away.
The wind that blows ! The wind that blows !
The poor man dreams, the rich man knows
There is a wind, a wind alway.
A wind that blows our cares away!
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


by using
•■HO
SAFETY RAZOR BLADE
Made of a special steel with extra keen edges
that last and give more shaves per blade.
For all Gillette and Auto-Strop holdcrs.
Ao-ent for Australia: H. E. U TILLY,
Margaret House, 282 George Street, Sydney.
Manufactured by Kirby Beard ft Co., Ltd.,
Needle and Pin Manufacturers,
Raveiihurst Works,
Birmingham,
England.
Use d "BEARD 'to shave a heard
FOR"LATE NIGHT”
STOMACHS
A late night, with ever so little to drink, is poison
to many. Next morning the' head aches, the tongue
is bad, and the stomach is worse. What to do? Take
Para-Pepsin! Quick as a flash it calms the stomach ;
freshens the mouth ; sweetens the breath. Appetite
comes; irritability goes. It’s worth a trial! Once
a stomach sufferer tries it he never goes back to
harmful anti-acids. For a real and quick return to
stomach health you must have Para-Pepsin. Costs
only 2/- at any Chemist’s, or direct from Amalgamated
Laboratories, Kembla Building, Sydney.
HAIR.
(T
NEED
F
HERES
wjvu -
e
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
StPOUeris CMEXICAN)
OfoXtud StoJUn-
’•REMOVES THE GREY"*
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (4/6), 6d. being postage.
fp
Experimenting
How much a year do
you waste in unneces-
sary Experiments?
Cut Waste and
Advertise with a
“Result-Bringer”
Che telegraph
BRISBANE
Has proved itself for
over 57 years a good
“Result-Bringer” for
all Advertisers.
the telegraph
newspaper Co. Etd.
Queen & Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane.
BUILMMC FOR THE
WORLD'* FIMEfT
railway;
And for those of Great Britain in particular.
All four great railway systems have been included on the
A.W. orders list in recent years.
In India, Australia and S. America, too, A.W. locomotives
are upholding our reputation to-day as the world’s greatest
locomotive builders
SIR W. G. ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH & CO., LTD.
Sales Organisation:
PARK HOUSE, GREAT SMITH STREET, LONDON, S.W.I.
Works and Shipyards - - - - NEWCASTLE-UPON-TYNE.
AGENTS: Messrs. GILBERT-LODGE & CO., Ltd., Melbourne, Sydney and Adelaide.
SHIPS MARINE ENGINES LOCOMOTIVES
GENERAL ENGINEERING
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Eighty Years of Faithful Service
to the Australasian public with a reputation for fair
and equitable dealing unsurpassed by any Life Office
in the World.
Tshe
A.M.P. SOCIETY
Established 1849.
Assets - - - £73,776,000.
Large Annual Bonuses.
Protection, Provision and Profit secured under life
policies with the Society.
INQUIRIES INVITED.
F. T. BRIDGES , Acting General Manager.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch and District Offices in Capital and leading Cities of Australia
and New Zealand.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
I
ADe
Perfection
pithk. robber
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — . think of
è
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cu*
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridle Street. Sydney.
THE PATRIOT
[DIRECT MEDIUMI9 WOMEN J
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.


Motor Fuels
Tested
Remarkable Demonstration
given at Oil Company’s
Laboratory
A Convincing Test
Anybody who goes to the
Yarraville Installation of
the Vacuum Oil Company
Pty. Ltd., and sees there the
Midgley Bouncing Pin apparatus
testing fuels, must be convinced
that there is only one spirit on
the market that is outstandingly
better than others; and that is
appotenic Plume.
This apparatus—the only equip-
ment of the kind in the South-
ern Hemisphere—proves in deeds,
to the eye and ear, what the
appotenic Plume advertising
claims in words. It shows clearly
those invisible and sometimes in-
audible laborings that take place
beneath the bonnet of a car when
it is travelling up hill, or under
heavy load, on the wrong kind
of fuel, on fuel unstable to heat
and high compressions. It shows
the advantages of the right kind.
Details of the Apparatus
The Midgley Bouncing Pin Set con-
sists of a small internal-combustion
engine; a direct-coupled electric gene-
rator ; a thermostatic cooling system;
an instrument and control board; and
—the bouncing pin apparatus itself.
The engine, which is water-jacketed,
is firmly fixed on a solid base. A
special head has been fitted, which is
designed not only to admit the bounc-
ing pin—of which more details later—
but to give the high compression of 6.7
to X. Average compressions obtaining
in present-day cars arc as follows: —■
American .. .. > 4.9 to X
English .. .. 5.2 to 1.
Continental .. .. 6.4 to 1
So it can be seen that any motor spirit
that stands up to the conditions exist
ing in this trial engine will not break-
down in any car in the world that is
not a freak car.
The fuel is further “burdened” by a
magnetic resistance or load which is
placed on the engine through the gen-
erator, and which can be var-ied by the
operator by means of a control on the
instrument-board; while the spark set-
ting is on much more than a normal
“advance.”
The Measurement of Knocks
Now for the measurement and the
comparison of knocks. This is the
purpose of the bouncing pin.
In a tapped orifice in the combustion
head, similar to a spark-plug hole, is
screwed a drilled steel rod about seven
inches in length. Through the centre
of the rod, fitting closely, but free to
move, goes the “pin” itself. The lower
end of the pin rests on a small dia-
phragm, which is held in position by
a hollow ring nut screwed against a
shoulder in the surrounding metal.
This diaphragm takes the pressure that
is generated in the combustion chamber
during the firing stroke. While it holds
the compression, it transmits any shock
or vibration (when knocking is taking
place) to the pin above it, which is
thus caused to “bounce.”
The upper end of the pin, while at
rest, touches the lower arm of a pair of
contact-breakers. These are normally
open, and are positioned in an electric
circuit which operates a red light and
a “knock-measuring” device on the
instrument board.
When a Knock Occurs
When a knock occurs in the engine,
the diaphragm is “sprung”; the pin
bounces; taps the contact-arms to-
gether, closes the circuit, the red light
flickers, and the knock-indicator works.
The “knock-measuring” device con-
sists of a calibrated glass tube filled
with an acid solution, through which
the same electric current that operates
the light passes. The passage of the
current releases a gas in the solution,
which rises in the form of bubbles to
the top of the tube. This renders com-
parisons between the knock-frequency
of two different fuels very simple. The
more gas that is collected over a given
period of running, the worse, from the
knocking point of view, is a fuel —the
less, the better.
More than Human
Those who have seen tests realised
fully for the first time the big differ-
ence between various brands of motor
spirits that ordinary running in a car
does not always reveal—but which is
bound to be recorded in ultimate per-
formance, i.e.j in more, or less, gear
changing or in more, or less, miles per
gallon.
The Midgley Bouncing Pin Apparatus
is more than human. It hears what
ears cannot hear, feels what is imper-
ceptible to the human touch. It proves
very definitely the reason for that
seemingly paradoxical term the “silent
knock”; and convincingly demonstrates
the value to the motorist of using a
motor spirit that possesses the “appo-
tenic” quality which, by controlling
the rate at which Plume burns, elimin-
ates all kinds of, knocking and ensures
maximum power output.
Engineers who have witnessed tests
acknowledge that this inherent appo-
tenic quality places Plume in a class
by itself—a genuine knock-proof motor
spirit of incomparable quality.
More Sensitive
than the human ear!
This Machine
tests motor spirits
for their
anti-knock value
The Midgley Boun-
cing inn Knock-
testing set.
* * *
This wonderful ap-
paratus, standard
equipment with mo-
tor fuel engineers
for the purpose of
testing the knock-
resistance of motor
spirits, is the only
one of its kind in
the Southern
Hemisphere.
mm
mm
i M
m
mm.
m
■ m
m
1
llillll
m
■ ■:
4MRf
wmm
It records even the “silent knock
The Midgley Bouncing Pin knock-testing set is recognised through-
out the \vcr)d by fuel engineers as the standard equipment for
determining the anti-knock value of a fuel.
The set illustrated above forms part of the extensive fuel-testing
equipment in the laboratory of the Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
By this scientific apparatus the remarkable anti-knock quality of
Plume is regularly tested and confirmed.
If motor spirit tested in
this device has a tendency to
knock, the bouncing pin will
detect it even although it he
inaudible to the human ear.
Even the slightest disruption
or increase in the burning
rate of the fuel is indicated
by a tell-tale sign on the
instrument board. There is
no indication of even a silent
knock with appotenic Plume.
The unequalled results
achieved in this scientific test
with appotenic Plume is a
Perfect knock-proof
combustion follows
naturally when appo-
tenic Plume is used.
convincing demonstration of
the appotenic story. It is a
matter of scientific record
that Plume does not knock
either audibly or silently.
This is due to its remarkable
ability to withstand the
heat and high compression
of the combustion chamber.
Prove the appotenic quality
in your own car. Get the
benefit of the full power out-
put of appotenic Plume, made
available through perfect
knock-proof combustion.
appotenie [ from, Lar
tin: ad (ap) meaning
added to: and potens,
meaning powerful] pos-
sessing increased
power; said of a gas
that, being stable to
heat and high compres-
sion will therefore
neither audibly nor
silently “knock” in a
high compression
engine.
PLUME
appotenic
Motor Spirit
appotenic Plume
is pure,
uniform,
- crystal-clear.
Your eye can see
how pure it is ...
Let your car
prove its power.
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
Sjl’2o


•
‘W/
Protect your
throat from cold
infections and hoarse-
ness, and keep you in
good voice.
Your Chemist stocks them ,
1/- and 1/9 per box.
7
SCIENCE AND LIFE!
Scientific medical research has given to men and women ten years
longer lif eh
The dispensing and delivering of life-saving medicines are 'daily
occurrences in my business.
W hether you live -in Sydney or innermost Australia, I can send you
all your medical requirements,
Just pin tins advertisement to your letter or prescription, and your
medicines will reach you by return mail. (V P. or otherwise .)
Call in personally when next you are in town
W. JAMES ROGERS, Chemist,
355 George Street (opposite G.P.0.), Sydney.
Monday to Friday—
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
From 7.30. Minimum' Charge, 10/-
Saturday, Late Gala Night.
Special Table d’HOte Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
From 10 o’clock, Special Supper 12/8; or
a la carte, minimum, 12/6
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 to 5, 4/-. Parties of six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 5.30, 5/*
The Ambassadors New Delightful
Dance Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and Rhythm that makes dancing- a :
effortless pleasure.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. "Phone: M 4131.
Untold Tales of Bully Hayes. —
(!) The Goatskin buccaneer.
A;BER DPRRTNGTON
CHRONICLES ANOTHER OF THE REMARK
ABLE EXPLOITS OF' “THE LAST OF THE BI CCA NEERS.”
BULLY HAYES once said that if you
dug deep enough anywhere betwmen
Pine Creek and the Palmer Liver you
would probably unearth a dead Chinese city.
Certainly junk and joss have decorated many
a northern inlet since the yellow man learned
to steer by star and headland and make his
reckoning by moon and tides.
"Beats me,” the famous buccaneer once
said, “the way they overland from Cairns
t.i Sydney. Look at old Sam Lee that I gave
a feed to on the Dumaresq about Christ-
mas time. His two sons and three uncles
had done a famish on the way down. But
Sam was selling rhubarb and stuff near Cir-
cular Quay by the time 1 readied Sydney;
and that was only April.
“Tell you, George-street was a sight when
I first reached Sydney. Chinks!
‘•‘ls this a town or a temple?’ I says to
a constable, leaning on the quay-rail oppo-
site the Ship Inn.
"When I got back to the Leonora that
night I found a bailiff in charge, lie led
off by helping me to some pickles and beef
out of my own pantry; and through him
I became acquainted with Mother Lanigan.
‘•‘Bully Hayes,’ she says to me one day,
•they tell me ye pinched the Sultan of Sara-
wak s paycock before ye began to be chased
by the gunboats?’
“ ‘Don’t believe it, Mother Lanigan,’ says
I' -, yet mistook a paycock for the
family plate; It was the gold dinner-service
that got pinched. The rajah lent it to me
the night I entertained the British High
1 otoomdoner aboard the Leonora,
i S 6 cai ‘° °f h, Captain Hayes,’ says
lie. 1 here are seven hundred ounces in the
service. And I must apologise for not being
able to join you and his Excellency at din-
ner on board the Leonora.’
“I had a Chinese cook named Jim Ling.
In the presence of the rajah I told Jim I’d
leave him on a cannibal island where they
ate little Chinks with banana sauce if any-
Thing happened to the gold dinner-service
during the washing up. Jim said that noth-
ing could happen to it.
."’Haw, haw, Hayes,’ the High Commis-
sioner chuckles after the rajah had gone
ashore. ..That w T as devilish funny about the
banana sauce! Do they really put sauce
an ., dungs on their horrible food?’
" ‘Only with Chinamen,’ I told him. and
let it go at that.
•‘Just before the dinner I met Jim Ling
outside the pantry. ‘Jim,’ I says quietly,
that gold dinner-service must not leave this
<dup mysteriously. Savvy?’
“Ling just opened his mouth and shut it.
then he gave me a look that was as good
as a receipt for the goods.
‘•Worth a king’s ransom!’ old Mother
u'lnrte ' s . ai thievin’ blackguard!’
. lhievin !’ says I—‘l never saw Jim
a P m a fter the wash-up. He got away
with the service in a sampan while I was
mixing a drink for tile High Commissioner.’"
❖ :\s
Hayes’s brig, the Leonora, lay off the
f/T. r » a ? C j \° Hmu Creek. East and west
stretched the dark mangroves, w'ith here and
there a low range of sandhills to heighten
th*- monotony. Beyond the hummocks lay
ceiter s Gully, a mining township composed
+• v D , ov ?^ s an d Chinese huts. The scum
or North Queensland had swarmed down to
the creek, bringing out-of-date mining imple-
ments, and fossicking and dollying quartz as
they travelled over the ranges.
A ceaseless murmuring of voices reached
Hayes as he dozed in a hammock under the
sun-awning. The eternal clink-clink
of picks told him that the near-by gullies
were being prospected by bands of feverish
Chinese “swampers.”
. ••Bully"; had escaped the gold-fever which
had deprived many coastal vessels of their
crews. His business instincts warned him
not to desert his brig to risk fortune on a
mining field. Very few' schooners visited
Emu Creek, and he w’as certain that a pay-
able cargo would offer sooner or later.
Whether the field prospered or failed there
would be an exodus of miners eager to reach
Brisbane or Sydney; and Hayes knew all
about skying the passenger rate w’hen the
psychological moment arrived.
As the sun dipped over the western hum-
mocks sw'arms of tiger-mosquitoes rose from
the mudflats. The sound of land crabs
scuttling over the sandbars reached him.
Slipping from the hammock he began
pacing the narrow deck, while the drowsy-eyed
Kanaka crew watched him w'ith childlike
curiosity.
A silhouette had become suddenly visible
on the edge of the ra'ud-flat facing the
Leonora. For several minutes the figure
remained motionless; then, glancing about in
nervous haste, the man signalled the brig
with a handkerchief.
“Guess he looks lonely out there !” Hayes
grunted. “These darned shore-men reckon
they’ve only to w’ave their penn’orth of mil-
finery to attract an ironclad. Maybe he’s
hist his feeding-bottle and wants a drink.”
The man signalling on the tide-swept flat
sauntered up and dowui as the Leonora’s
dinghy pulled towmrds him. Stepping in
gingerly he wiped his long, hot face as the
mois t heat rose in choking waves from the
,n angrove-blackened w'ater.
Hayes watched the dinghy’s return with
c - indifference. A glance showed him his
7 1S1 ~r s Clt yjmade clothes and almost spot-
, inei i' t amp spieler, he told himself;
n /e°f those copper-plated mining agents,
home !” §to b f ° r 8 passagft
The newcomer regarded the buccaneer
closely as he stepped aboard. He was like
one trying to recall a few' of the episodes
which had made the name of William PI.
Hayes a terror from Sandakan to the Ker-
madecs.
“My name is Molyneux,” he announced
at last. "I joined the rush to Emu Creek
with the intention of buying a mine. But
the fact is"
“See here, Mr. Molyneux,” Hayes broke
i Q - wheeling on him like a hawk, "I don’t
want city men to flag me as if I ow'ned a
threepenny ’bus. There are no threepenny
Passages to Sydney on this barnacle. You’ve
lost your money and you’re giving me your
Doubles to mind. I’m a bad listener. And
that long, white face of yours reminds me
of a circus horse. No offence, Mr. Molyneux.
I can’t stand this Queensland weather!”
Molyneux wiped his hot face deliberately,
I came aboard the Leonora, Captain
Hayes, to make a proposal,” he said at last.
"Mining is a fool’s game, especially in this
locality, where most of the stuff is being
bucketed from slime and blue mud.” He
glanced at the eager, listening Kanakas and
became silent. .
“They don’t understand,” Hayes snapped.
“Speak out!”
A bleached grin w'andered over the visi-
tor’s long face. "I came aboard,” he con-
tinued, "under the impression that my little
scheme for walking into the slab-and-bark
bank at Emu Creek might meet with your
support and approval, Captain H’ayes. I’ve
heard men say you never turn your face
from a good thing.”
The buccaneer considered Molyneux through
his half-shut eyes for a moment. Then : “I
might be game enough to bail up a gunboat
or scrap it out with a gang of head-hunters.
But banks scare me stiff, sir. The only
thing I ever got out of a bank wms a bullet
from the cashier’s grille in Samoa the minute
I stuck my head in at the door. The cashier
wasn’t taking any chances, he said. Money
can shoot, as well as talk, Mr. Molyneux.”
The split grin on Molyneux’s lips widened.
“There arc no shooters in this bank. Captain
Hayes. The manager is an old German
named Krantz. He has been buying gold
at the rate of sixty ounces a day for the
last month. Next week it w’ill be shipped or
escorted to Cooktown by troopers.”
Hayes yawned like one not easily drawn
into sudden conspiracies. “If this slab-and-
bark bank bought a hundred-weight of gold
a day it wouldn’t interest me. These Aus-
tralian troopers can shoot buttons off you at
half a mile. And where there’s a bank there’s
generally a policeman round the corner.
Why, any cop who pinched me up here
would be promoted to inspector. So I’m
just a bit sniffy about bank hold-ups.”
Molyneux's grin faded as he searched
for his cigar-case. “There isn’t a trooper
within twenty miles of the Creek,” he
answered, offering a fat Manila. “I’ve sha-
dowed old Krantz’s movements every hour of
the day for the last week. He’s using a
safe shipped down from Darwin two months
ago. You could punch a hole in it with a
pick handle.”
“This man Krantz?” Hayes demanded
with the fat Manila between his teeth.
“Sleeps on top of the safe, eh, with the
family blunderbuss for a pillow'?”
no one in the bank at night.
Krantz bunks in a two-roomed place adjoin-
ing. And the live thousand quids' w'orth of
bullion in that old Dutch-oven safe will be
sleeping in your state-room to-night if yoti’ll
take a chance with me.”
Hayes sucked in his breath as though
Molyneux had touched a raw' nerve. “Wait
a bit.” he said at last. “Perhaps I’ve been
over-hasty.”
Molyneux sat on an upturned keg while
the buccaneer dived below and reappeared
with a bottle.
“It takes a full-sized spieler to get wine
out of rue,” he remarked. “Use your glass,
and I’ll smoke while you line out this bank-
breaking scheme of yours. Funny you should
have come to me,” he added thoughtfully,
as Molyneux drained his glass. “Sailor
men are not good safe-busters.”
“I came because your vessel fills the bill.
Last night I could have cleaned out the
bank without assistance. But the moment
I t moved north or south with a pack-horse,
I’d be tracked and pinched. Not being a
bushman I’d stand a chance of being speared
or clubbed and eaten. The sea for me, Cap-
tain Hayes.”
The buccaneer nodded.
‘lour ship is bettor than a pack-horse,
Captain. Once clear of this hole we could
make for the Islands and play poker for the
rest of the year.”
The wine kindled Molyneux’s white face.
Hayes helped him to a second glass. “Poker
never interested me,” he growled. “You
were talking about a bank. Mr. Molyneux?”
Molyneux shifted uneasily on the keg. his
narrow eyes focussing the man of whom he
had heard so much.
"I wouldn’t ask you to come into a scheme
that hadn’t been well thought out. Captain
Hayes. The bank at the Creek is full to
the lips with Chinese gold."
“Full to the lips! I like that! Is this
Krantz working alone?”
/‘Absolutely. He’s at his books day and
night trying to keep his accounts straight.
Most of the day he’s behind the counter
weighing the gold and muck at so much an
ounce, and paying for it in minted sovereigns
and banknotes. Just now he’s easing off
the night work and goes to bed about eleven.
I’ve watched him patiently,” Molyneux added
in a low tone, “and he’s the biggest thief
outside Pitt-street.” ■
Hayes laughed derisively.
Molyneux nodded. “Serve them right, too.
They bring their gold packed in old tins
and pickle-jars and bottles. They wrap the
stuff in old rags as if it was grease or
pieces of ifon.”
The buccaneer’s eyes lit up. “It makes
my blood itch to think of the way men
handle gold !” he snapped.
Hayes was not without imagination. He
saw Molyneux’s picture of the bank at Emu
Creek, a narrow slab and bark structure,
crowded front morning till night with sludge-
covered fossickers of all nationalities, eager
to exchange their “dust” for coin, while
behind the scales stood Krantz, weighing,
testing laboriously and cheating as only
such gold-buyers know how.
“1 saw a parcel of stuff brought in by a
party of alluvial miners,” Molyneux con-
tinued. “It was wrapped in old newspaper.
They spread ji on the counter while Krantz
scooped it up with both hands and sifted
it into the scales. He stuck his hands deep
into the dust, and gathered several ounces
in his turned-up flannel shirt-cuffs. Then he
stooped behind the counter to pick up a fal-
len pencil and let the fine gold run from
liis cuffs to the floor. That’s Krantz.”
“I guess he'll be weighed with the rest
of us,” the buccaneer commented absently.
“It’s going to be a pleasure to skin him
alive, Mr. Molyneux! Anything else?”
“Yes. Last evening a couple of coolies
stumbled in carrying a lot of stuff wrapped
in a goatskin."
“Goatskin?” Hayes interrupted sharply.
“There’s only one animal I hate l worse than
goat. What’s the goatskin for?”
“It was wrapped that" way, I suspect, be-
cause a coolie carrying a goatskin isn’t likely
to rouse suspicions.”
Hayes padded softly up and down the
deck, pausing at times to scrutinise the
white-faced rogue seated on the keg. Hayes
was conscious of his own limitations, and
was in no hurry to pit himself against
unknown forces.
“We’ll have a feed in my stateroom,” he
said after a while, “before I promise to stick
my head into this. Goats are denied un-
lucky.”
Shortly after midnight Hayes and Moly-
neux put off from the Leonora in a dinghy,
and landed near a clump of mangroves at
the rear of the township. Picking their
way through a stone-strewn gully they came
upon a crooked street of huts and tents.
Here and there, across the distant mullock-
heaps, a slush-lamp bobbed and flickered,
showing where a night-shift of fortune-
hunters was still at work.
Half-way down the street stood the bank,
enclosed by a barbed-wire fence. The window
overlooking the street was shuttered with a
rusty piece of plate-iron. Round the corner
of the bank the two men halted sharply
at sight of a light burniiife in Krantz’s win-
dow. Almost immediately the door of the
shanty opened. Both men drew into the
shadows as the bulky, slow-footed figure of
the German emerged. Opening a gate in the
wire entanglement, he entered the bank.
Molyneux swore softly as he clung to the
buccaneer’s arm. “The big stiff will stay
in there over his books for hours,” he said
angrily. “We’ll have to wait.”
“Wait for nothing.” Hayes snapped. “Come
in with me or stay out!”
Before Molyneux could protest Hayes was
on the heels of the slow-moving Krantz with
no more sound than a stalking tiger.
Krantz lit an oil-lamp that hung above
the counter, then whirled with an bath at
sight of Hayes standing with his back to
the door of the bank.
“Gott! Who vos you?” he snapped, his
nerveless hand groping for the weapon some-
where in his side-pocket.
“Cheese the gun-play, Krantz. If I took
an old biugey like you seriouslv I’d hit you
with the safe and bury you with a goanna.
Straighten up and listen!”
The gold-bfiyer came near to collapse
as he glared at the lean figure with
the steely eyes, the seafaring clothes and
unforgettable face. Then his jaw sagged,
tlie grip on the revolver Relaxed.
“Acli! You are Bully Hayes!” he quav-
ered. “Dot is your ship in der offing. Yat
you vant mit me, Hayes?” he wailed, a
gleam of terror in his pouched eyes. “Is
dis one of your hold-ups?”
Hayes slammed the bank door, and locked
it in the face of Molyneux, who had been
content to peer in. Then he turned akain
to the fear-shaken gold-buyer.
“See here, Krantz! I never yet killed a
man who did the sensible thing. And don’t
behave as if I was Ross Lewin. He would
have dug your heart out for daring, to finger
with that gun. Are you going to listen?”
“Yes, Hayes. You vill not hurt an old
man?”
Hayes laughed outright at the naked ter-
ror in the old eyes. He knew that men
spoke of him as a human fiend, a bloodless
kidnapper and recruiter, a destroyer and
ravislier of native villages. While conscious
of his own shortcomings he was often stung
by the thought, of the pictures drawn of him
by schooner captains and traders.
“Open the safe. Krantz!” he ordered. “I
want that goatskin and all that’s in it. No
squeals and I’ll leave the rest of the stuff
alone!”
Krantz stumbled blindly to the safe,
opened it and drew out the bulging goatskin
(Continued on page 57.)
The Secret.
The Queen lay straiked in her chapel
white;
Candles burned by her all the night,
Yellow flames, like a poppy set
In fields that a wise queen should
forget.
And those who paused at her side to
pray
Glanced at each other as though to sag,
"Her hand is shut in a curious way.
Can it be there is treasure hid
To lie concealed ’neath a coffin lid?”
Then, at the top of the night, there came
.1 thief who peered through the candle’s
flame;
And the watchers slept till the dawn
was grey,
For the power of the Queen had passed
away.
And the young King looked for the
tvassail bowl
While he told his beads for the old
Queen’s soul;
And the thief of the palm of the dead
took toll
To fling it down in amazed distress,
For the hand of the Queen held empti-
. ness.
QUEENSLAND.
The robber quaked in his threadbare
hose
That these curving fingers should
naught disclose.
Suddenly, shuddering, he sought the
door,
For the fingers shut on the palm once
more —
In a holy. chapel could such things
be?
And his startled tongue muttered
“Witchery !”
For a fairy treasure no eye could see.
Almost it seemed, where wicks burned
dim,
The lips of the pale Queen mocked at
him!
What did she hold? f think I guess.
Hid in the folds of her funeral dress,
No goldsmith-fashioned, glittering
thing —
Only the ashes left from spring;
Long dried leaves of the kisses kist... .
Silver moons on eyes amethyst,
Precious chain for a pulseless wrist. ..
Such as my hand may hold some day
When Life and Loving have passed
away !
M. FORREST.


Banking, Public Companies, etc.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £.529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 703,125
Ordinary Shares .. .. •• 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
fpiIUTC fii) IT7TC on Australia, New
UJAAINiD DKArIO Zealand. Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS Si “ P "“riiSl
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
Übe Bo minion.
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily.
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion' is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—•
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
%
é
ê
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors —
COLINSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust,.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian .Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street.
. , Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E<C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
s
Dependable /
Cl 9 aii S
\Craig & Aitken
Wholesale Dish'ibutorj
sijdneu N SW.
Shipping, etc.
On Southern
Seas . ... or
Sunny Shores
%r-
AUSTRALASIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE
WHETHER on board the liner
en route for Honolulu or holi-
daying on the Sunny South
Sea Isle, your enjoyment is assured.
For Hawaii is a world-famous
holiday resort, whilst the vessels
engaged in this tour- —the Niagara
and Aorangi—-are imposingly large,
wide-decked and splendidly fitted for
pleasure.
Return Excursion Tour—via Auck-
land and Suva:—
£75 First Saloon; £55 Second.
Departures;
NOVEMBER 14, DECEMBER 12,
JANUARY 9, FEBRUARY 6.
Union Steam Ship Co.,
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne, C.l.
BURNS-PHILP TOURS
JAVA
(The Land of Eternal Summer).
OLD BUDDHISTIC AND HINDUISTIO
TEMPLES —NATIVE BAZAARS.
EXCELLENT BIG-GAME SHOOTING.
BEAUTIFUL TROPICAL SCENERY.
EXTENSIVE TEA GARDENS.
INTERESTING PEOPLE.
Regular monthly sailings by the favorite
vessels 'MARELLA (7500 tons) and
“MALABAR” (5000 tons).
Pacific Island Excursions
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon
Islands, Lord Howe Island,
Norfolk Island and New Hebrides.
TRIPS OF FROM TWO TO FIVE WEEKS’
DURATION.
Make your selection note and Book Early.
Apply to
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide.
ë
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund. .
Reserve Liability
ē
£7,500,000
5,900,000
7,500,000
£20,900,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER SO. 1928, £88,982.585
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
554 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Queensland’s Greatest Advertising Medium*
BRISBANE COURIER”
Carries mere advertising than twe ether Brisbane dailies eembinei
“COURIER”
for 6 months,
Ending June 31, *29
Two other Dailies
for same period
14,216
13,758
■P»h
Advertising
Columns,
Advertising
Columns
The "Brisbane Courier” is the largest and most reliable financial,
commercial and home paper in Queensland.
First in Circulation, Coverage, Advertising and Influence.
Published by THE BRISBANE NEWSPAPER CO.,
Courier Building, Queen Street, Brisbane.
Syd. Rep.; ROBT. D, FISHER, 74“ Pitt Street, Sydney.
Shipping, etc.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Nestor .. . 15,000 tons, Sept. 9
fDemosthenes 11,500 ~ Sept. 28
jCerarnic . . 18,500 ~ Oct. 26
*§Ulysses . . 15,000 ~ Oct. 29
* First class only, f First and Third class
s“Cabin” class only. §Via Suez.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd. I
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson Ltd. J
Joint
Aganti
Splendid Cheap Service
Via Suez Canal.
FAST OIL BURNERS
Fares to London from £3B.
To Colombo from £22.
Special Excursion Return Tickets to
Colombo issued from Sept, to Feb., £32.
P. § 0. BRANCH SERVICE
SPACIOUS DECKS—DECK CABINS—EXCELLENT
MENU—CINEMA —DANCE MUSIC REPRODUCED
WITH ELECTRIC AMPLIFIERS—SWIMMING BATH
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 86701
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane Issued.
S.S. ORARA— Every Saturday evening; passenger!
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
SS WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
fares.— . .
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/8/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £B/16/
Steamer and Second-elass Rail, Single, £3/8/
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd..
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart Parkerl l^1
Magnifioent
Fast Passengst
Steamshipa
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and I’ice vem.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobait
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars appIy HUDDAHT PARKER LIMIT? 1
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
O'er travellers-^
passOWQWfiM
CoAtadcid i J|ki }
Cuy
/ W | *»i»
1 •« » « i »•
A A.
&\ e
If!
\w* v
\£» S
v\' e
SHI
'V
C**\ A'i'i*
rt\o
6.1
«C*
S«-
ve''
tto''
<\\^
o»'
0c* e
o vV ’
ote
\V>' e
(tv®
v* e
wv-
es'j
V>'iC>
W» V
Y^
r> n
v^ c
\W
\V &
A\V^
ot*'
ft.o
\tf s
e,tf e
t% fc
<v»
G e °
C»
5,4'
7
[jLmiU
•***»
TRAINS STEAM
If any illustration in The BuixeOT t J
your fancy, write to the Manager,
quote you price for the original.


JUST WHAT YOU WANT
WHEN IT COMES TO THE POINT
A high'grade Pencil with a
very fine point, and a
“Blackbird” Pen with
a durable point.
OP
‘une
-Qbunl
“ Fyne-Poynt ” is a
Pencil that is always
ready for use; its thin lead
never requires sharpening, and
it carries refills to last a twelve-
month. One quarter turn
either propels the lead for
writing or withdraws it for
protection. The lead is used
up to the last fraction.
The Pencil of
many fine points
Prices from 7/6
The "Blackbird” Self-filler is a
Pen of wonderful value; its iridium
tipped i4ct. gold nib is made for hard
work. Choose a point to suit your
handwriting, and the “ Blackbird ” will
serve you well for many years to come.
Try one at your nearest dealer’s.
Prices from 9/-
Made by the "SWAN” Pen People
BLACKBIRD
SEbF FIkUER
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
Head Office : Swan House, 133 & 135- Oxford St.. London, W.I.
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service DepStt
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
181, Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS.
“SWAN” INK FOR ALL PENS.
ĕ
NOW NEATLY CASED
at same price!
A strongly-made grained-leather case is now provided with every Plum
Razor ft no increase in cost. With its blade set to perfection —guaran-
teed and kept in order for two years free—the Plum Razor shaves clean y,
easilv Quickly —leaves the most delicate skm smooth and comfortable.
Black Vulcanite Handle ® ach
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle lb/o »
Real Ivory Handle ••• • •••••• 21/* »
Satin-lined double case free with pair.
7-day Sets —7 Razors in Case.
Black, 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory, 140/-
. Post free to any address.
CR A I G & A I T K E N, 654 George Street, Sydney.
placing it with a painful wheezing of bieutli
at the buccaneer’s feet. „
"Dis vas my ruin, Hayes, he quavcicd.
-All mv days I vork hard to make a lectlie
moneys. Now you come Ku-untz's
The big-voiced seaman laughed m Krantz s
face as he swung the bundle to his shudder.
"Easy, old jellyfish, about your loss. iouh,
tilling the Townsville banks witn your p old.
A sound of running feet turned him to
the door. Molyneux had disappeared. Kid
squared his bulky shoulders against 1 1
1 “Troopers!” he articulated almost glee-
fully. “Now you vas in for it.’
Ilayes flung wide the bank door, stood for
a moment in the open, liis blazing eyes fixed
on the chattering Teuton inside the shanty.
"One sniff out of you, Krantz, and lit
kill you and the two cops you’re expecting.
Are you going to yell out the minute i
leave here?”
“No, no! I vill not put you avay. Good-
uiglid—you vas a shentlemans!”
“Good night, Krantz!” the buccaneer sent
back, striding down the squelching road.
The glow of hurricane-lamps showed in
his rear. A party of miners was. hurrying
in his footsteps. They quickened their pace at
sight of the lighted bank, at the tall sea-
man with the bundle making his way to
the creek entrance.
‘“Hey, old timer! Where you off to with
the load?” one of the miners called out,
suspiciously.
Hayes halted at the, challenge. “One goat
at a time, sonny!” lie gave back sharply. “IT
put horns on any son of a gun who tries
to get between me and my ship. Stop run-
ning !”
“Struth!” came from the group of miners
with the lamps. “His ship! It’s Bully
Hayes! Been after the dust, I’ll bet. Serve
that damned German right. Always show-
ing lights in his window when the field’s
asleep!”
The buccaneer gained the dinghy at the
creek mouth, and rowed back leisurely to
the gangway of the brig.
By the light of the port binnacle Hayes
ripped open the carefully-laced goatskin,
and drew out an armful of straw and pack-
ing-waste. Then his hands closed on a shim-
mering, tinkling gold dinner-service, twenty
pieces iii. all. that bore the crest of His
Serene Highness the Sultan of Sarawak on
each piece.!
William H. Hayes sat on the keg. recently
occupied by Molyneux, end wiped his brow.
“This,” lie declared at last, “beats all the
tom-toms from Heligoland to Hades!”
Shortly after daybreak the buccaneer
called to a Kanaka standing in the shadow
of the galley:
“Esanon, you go ashore plenty quick now.
and fetch Jim Ling here to me. You savvy V”
The Tanna boy started.
“Bring Jim Ling to me,” Hayes repeated
with deadly earnestness. “You’re the good
tracker. Ling is somewhere in the town.
Get him! In case you don’t come back,
Esanon. I’ll take the trouble to remind you
that I’ve got a hold on your brother Gorai’s
plantation at Eromanga. And there's your
old father, too. And now what about it?"
Esanon’s big dark eyes took in the dis-
tant township of tents and lean to shanties,
and then, almost in a breath, was away in
the dinghy.
"That boy has feelings,” Hayes declared,
loud enough for the eager-eyed Kanaka, crew
to hear. “I lent his father thirty dollars
when there wasn’t a barrel of oil or a
pound of copra in the family. I made the
old chief Tauo give land to his dog-poor
brother. Now he’s troubled about me going
back to Eromanga, and throwing the whole
damn family to Hie sharks. It put the quick-
silver on his heels!”
Hayes breakfasted sulkily in his little
stateroom aft. The bread was sour and
almost black; the coffee undrinkable: the
piece of barracouta on his plate had been
fried in bad dripping.
Mounting the companion, be reached the
deck at thp moment the lithe-bodied Esanon
was climbing the gangway, followed by a
shivering, protesting Chinese bov.
Esanon dramatised the situation with
sweeping gestures in the direction
of the cohering Chinese boy :
“I catch him alonga one more China fel-
ler in Sam Yick's fantan-house. He plenty
too much no good. Plenty fright alonga
that feller stuff he steal. My word, be
catchum hell now!” .
Hayes lit his first morning cigar with
sudden gusto as he contemplated a noosed
rope dangling from the yardarm. Then, with
a schoolboy’s alacrity, he seized the rope, and
swung himself to and fro across the deck.
The Chinese boy watched with stark under-
standing as the buccaneer stretched, and
softened the rope to his own satisfaction.
“Jimmv,” he said, landing within a foot
of the cowering Celestial, “you played me
dirty. And I always treated you like a
brother. You pinched my best cigars and
X never squeaked. Like an old wife, you
emptied my pockets when I got drunk. In
Svdney you pawned my gold-braided suit
of naval-duck for thirty bob, the one suit I
had when I sat down to entertain royalty.
And I forgave you every time because you
were the best cook that ever dished up
a feed to a sailorman!”
There were tears in the buccaneer’s eyes,
the salt tears of one about to destroy an
unfaithful friend.
Jim lung bent his head, his slim, yellow
hands crossed over his neat, blue tunic.
“I welly sorry, Cap’n. I mad I think
when I lun off with gold-plate in Sarawak.
I think I find one lille gel in
Batavia who plomise to mally. She run
off with planter-man to Singapore. So 1
ship to Darwin. Welly hard to hide gold-
dinner service,” he sighed. .
“How in hell did you get to Emu Creek t
Hayes wrathfully. “It’s months
since you bolted.” . ,
“I wait long-time in Darwin to sell gold
service. No good. People welly flikeued.
Then I heah about Klantz, and I walkee
long way. Don’t hangee me. I keep one
lille sistah and mother in Shanghai. Welly
poor mother, Cap’n.”
“I ought to hang you and throw your
carcase to the ’gators!’’ the buccaneer thuu-
dered, as he reached for the snakeskm belt
around the Chinese boy’s waist. Opening
the pockets he carefully drew out a bundle
of notes and sovereigns.
Jim Ding moistened his lips. ‘Two lion-
red ponds, Cap’n. No moah.”
Hayes glared. “Is ihat all Ivrantz save
you for a packet worth a fortuneV The
hound! I’ve a good mind to go! ashore and
put a firestiek to his old hut. Body-snatch-
ing’s his real trade!” ... .
Stuffing the notes and gold into his pocket,
Hayes took a turn across the deck. Then,
stooping over the companion, he bellowed
an order to Clews the carpenter.
“Knock me up a small packing-case. lorn.
Burn in the address with an iron: lo His
Serene Highness the Sultan, the Residency.
Saraioah:' It’s a back-yard trick stealing
a man’s plate!”
“Ave, aye, skipper.”
“We’ll ship it at Thursday, Hayes
further instructed. “I’ll write a note now,
and put it in the case.”
Slipping below, the buccaneer sat at ms
table and wrote the following:
Dear Sarawak,—l caught tip with your
runaway dinner-serpiee. It was in the pos-
session of a German gold-buyer named
Krants . Rest assured that the thief will be
punished with the utmost severity. You will
find the service none the worse for its adven-
ture. May T tender my sincere regards to
the ladies'of the Residency, who never for
a moment believed me capable of a low-
down fraud—Your humble servant, wil-
liam H. Hayes, the brig Leonora,
Esanon was standing at. the head of the
stairs when Hayes ascended with the note
in his hand. The Tanna boy was strangely
agitated. . ~ h ...
“Well,” Hayes snapped irritably, what s
on your mind?” . t , ,
Esanon fawned. “You bin forget to bang
Jim Ling,” he reproached. wait
long time now,” - . ,
Hayes fetched a deep breath as he stared
at Esanon, and then 'at the Chinese boy
standing with head bent, under the dangling
“You’re a good boy. Esanon. Youie
always around when I forget to hang'some-
bodv. A lot of bad men would be alive
to-day if you hadn’t been about to jog my
memory." . , . • „
He turned almost fiercely to the (trooping-
shouldered Chinese boy under the rope.
“Into the galley with you and; get me
something to eat! D’ye hear?’
“Sea-pie. You know the sort 1 like! Hurry
now. before I change my mind about the
lia jfm°Liug passed with phantom swiftness
to the galley, leaving Hayes staring at the
dark-skinned tracker.
“Below with you, my lad, and clean out
those damned bilges. Next time there s a
hanging you shall have the rope to youi-
self!”
a' strong gust of wind rattled the loose
cordage above the buccaneer’s head. In a
moment the waters of the. creek entrance
was lashed to foam. Hayes almost leaped
to the narrow poop.
“Stand by those sheets, you damned sons
of the tarpot! Here’s the wind at last.
A man was seen runniug wildly towards
the creek-mouth, followed by a crowd of
miners. , , , . , .
“Ahoy there, Hayes!” he shouted m ms
desperation. “Get me out of this. They re
after me!” ,
“So it seems!” the buccaneer trumpeted
through his hands. “You’re a quitter! You
can wear this when those diggers have done
with you!” • ,
An empty goatskin was whirled through
the air; it fell a few yards from where
Molyneux was frantically beckoning.
A few minutes later the Deonora was
standing out toi sea.
The Ambition of Thomas Tembleton.
K. L. TRENT’S
STORY OF HOW A DIGGER GOT HIS HEART'S DESIRE.
THOMAS TEMBLETON ran his thumbs
under his web equipment, shifted his
heavy pack a little higher on his shoul-
ders to ease the dull and nagging ache of
it and trudged on. There was little to
divert his attention; his vision ahead was
limited to the dim outline of a shapeless
frurm bearing a pack like his own. and on
each side the irregular walls of the communi-
cation trench bounded his horizon. Occa-
ahead, he caught the shadowy
Seam of a Verey light through the murky
darkness ; here and there a furtive point of
lisrht in the column near by betrayed the
f-Ci-'t that one of his mates was breaking the
;.; a le which forbade smoking when going into
the linft.’ ..
t ittle as there was to distract his eye,
rhere was hardly more to catch his ear: the
tramp of the file making its disagree-
able way, along the sodden trench ; the mut-
i, red imprecations as one or another stumbled
nd M- aml, afar on the left front, the
"sharp clatter of an occasional burst of
macliihe-gun fire. But for the most part
rhere was silence.
And so Thomas Teinbleton mused. It was
a strange life he had dropped into since don-
ning the King’s uniform : and all the mor.'
strange in that his existence prior to his
entry into camp had been peaceable to the
point of dulness. Home in Maoriland,
Thomas Tembleton was a grocer’s assistant,
and a good one; he plodded faithfully and
conscientiously behind his counter, weighing
ont pounds of sugar and Lima beans with
stolid care, deferential to employer and cus-
tomer alike. After his mother had died and
Thomas had only himself to provide for —
Thomas, at 42, was unmarried, and had not,
in fact, given marriage a thought—he care-
fully put away in the savings bank what he,
could spare out of his weekly wages, and
complained not of life while he could pay
his board and retained his health and
strength. In Wardell’s stores he had be-
come an institution. ‘‘Tembleton? Oh, quite
a good fellow; works'like thvi Devil. But
he has no.imagination—hasn’t a soul above
a cheese.”
But common opinion was wrong. There
was another side to Thomas Tembleton,
though one which even those who knew Mm
(Continued on next page.)


®Y APPOINTMENT.
Ctit for
G®irdl®m’s
GIN
The Ingredients used in the production of
GORDON S GIN are of the finest quality procur-
able, and contain the greatest percentage of those
important properties which are considered by the
Medical Profession to be most beneficial to the
human system. It is very highly rectified and contains
no impurities of any kind; it is therefore very easily
digested and also aids the digestion of other beverages
with which it is mixed.
The name “GORDON” guarantees the very high-
est standard of quality and absolute purity: a
reputation enjoyed and jealously guarded lor over
150 years.
The Largest Gin Distillers in the World «
WHITEST
PUREST
& BEST
The Heart
of a good
Cocktail
r* My "
dry Gin
\
Obtainable
Everywhere
/>
uhe hand that holds
the'VENUS"
i he tirst rough suggestion—the skilful
and accurate working out. the sharp
detailed drawings, all the preliminary
planning necessary to the carrying out of
constructive effort, call for the use of VENUS
PENCILS. Whether it be for the building of a
battle-ship or the design of a simple household
article, the pencil is the first requirement: the
VENUS the first pencil.
17 B i^u le l^ a Legr^fci 08 -" U ° d - e^ ch • dozen, Super Copying (Medium '& Hard) 6d,
«ch - 5/9 per aozen. Venus Copying (Medium & Hard) 4d. each • 3/9 per dozen.
best would never have considered possible.
Thomas cherished a secret ambition. He
wanted to get away from cheeses and bags
or sugar, and forget he had ever been on
intimate terms with them. He wanted to
dine in a fashionable restaurant, bright with
flowers and dazzling glass, with obsequious
waiters hovering about ready to do one's
lightest bidding ; to sit among beautiful ladies
in wonderful evening frocks and toast their
bright eyes in foaming champagne.
Maoriland held no possibilities in this
way. Thomas's reading, scanty and ill-
chosen as it was, had planted in his heart a
firm belief that in only one city of the world
could his dreams come true—Paris! Paris,
the city of joy and laughter, of gaiety un-
restrained, of lovely women and wondrous
gowns—Paris! The very name had sung
its way into Thomas Tcnibleton's heart, and
many an evening would he sit before his
landlady's fire, lus pipe forgotten on his
knees, his eyes fashioning out of the glowing
coals the semblance of the parks and palaces
on the Seine as he imagined them to be.
At last Thomas had reached the country
of his desire, and Paris lay but a day’s
journey away. As he stumblingly made his
way through the spludge of the sap, following
the man ahead automatically rather than
through any conscious effort, his thoughts
directed themselves entirely towards the long-
sougjit goal and the means of attaining it.
Rapidly he built for himself a castle in Spain
which glinted and glittered, and dazzled him
in its fascination. Even the dull pain in
his shoulders and the distant hammering of
the machine-guns faded into an unheeded
background. He had heard a main-body
man talking in the billet a few days ago.
This man had been in charge of a listening-
post of three men which had been attacked
by a Boche fighting patrol of seven or eight,
and had driven them off with bombs, killing
two and wounding a third. For this he was
cited in battalion orders, which affected him
little, and was given ten days’ leave to
Paris, which was a recognition of far greater
value. Lucky dog! If only
Thomas Tembleton’s thoughts bent on the
more immediate present. This was his first
turn in the line, and lie had no idea of what
he had to face. But if the other man, with no
idea of reward, could bear himself so bravely,
what could not Thomas Tembleton do to
win through to the achievement of an ambi-
tion of a lifetime?
He began to sketch details of what he
would do to win his C.O.’s favor. A fighting
patrol—aye, that would be the surest way;
a sharp encounter in No Man’s Land—the
vision was somewhat blurred, as Thomas had
no idea of what No Man’s Land was like
or what were the conditions of life out there.
A short and severe fight, with bombs arid
bayonets inextricably mixed, blood pouring
freely, bandages hastily adjusted, the Boche
lying dead amid the shell-holes, Pte. Temble-
ton dashing back to cover bearing a wounded
man on his back, scornful of bullet and bomb
—how wonderful it all was! Tembleton’s
blood was stirred, and he felt himself the
stuff heroes are made of.
His reverie ended abruptly. A shrieking, tear-
ing noise overhead like an express train gone
mad ; an explosion which rent the atmosphere
and rattled every bone in his body, and Thomas
found himself lying m the mud at the bot-
tom of the trench, unhurt, but with his
heart pumping like an engine and his head
throbbing painfully. In a moment he per-
ceived the form ahead of him rise slowly to
his feet, and he followed suit, the column
once more struggling forward towards the
line. No one wounded, it seemed, and the
others appeared to treat it as an incident
of no importance. But Tembleton was over-
whelmed, stunned as by a crushing blow;
his hands trembled violently, and his knees
shook under him. He felt that another
shock of this magnitude would send him mad.
He was seized with a violent desire to escape
from this terror-haunted blackness which
enveloped him; he wanted to shriek, to run,
to tear aside the obstacle which separated
him from safety and sanity. But there was
nothing for it but to plod wearily on.
Ten minutes later Tembleton crawled
thankfully into a muddy dug-out, where at
last he felt he had found comparative safety.
Hardly had he eased his pack from his
shoulders than there burst upon him chaos
indescribable. The air was filled with tear-
ing shrieks of shells hurtling’ across without
intermission; terrific detonations thundered
all about him ; confused orders to turn out
and man the bays reached his ears; the
trench was full of pungent, acrid smoke. He
staggered out into the air and fell across a
body lying on the ground. He found his
hands wet with blood, and recoiled at the
sensation of sticky warmth. The hoarse cry
of “Stretcher-bearers!’’ sounded on all sides.
Amid the infernal din he could distinguish
nothing; he found himself beset with forces
with which he could not grapple. Groping
his way .back into the dug-out he huddled
into a corner with a groan and did not stir.
*** . *
ell, Marshall,” said the C.O. in cheery
accents next morning, “your company seems
to have swallowed a potion of Fritz at his
nastiest last night.”
"Damned unpleasant while it lasted, sir.
Just bad temper, apparently, as he didn’t
try to come over. Just blew Hell out of
us tor ten minutes or so, and then all was
quiet on the Western Front.”
"He seems to be getting a bit touchy in
this sector. By the way, those new rein-
forcements of yours must have found it a
hit.willing. How did they shape?”
“Pretty well, sir, taking them all round.
One of them won’t do, though. His platoon
sergeant found him huddled up in his dug-
out, thought he was dead at first—absolutely
done in. Chap named Tembleton. Shaking
like a leaf and scared stiff. Hasn’t spoken
a word since. Willing sort of a fellow, but.
simply useless up here. Don’t think he’s
a coward, sir, but turns to jelly when a
shell comes over. He’s really ill to-dav •
I think we’ll have to withdraw him.”
“H'm, not much good having a chap like
that on sentry-go. Better send him back
to the transport lines for a spell. The Q M
is always squealing for more staff. rii
get the adjutant to send a chit to the Q.M.,
and you can send your man back right
away.”
“Very good, sir.”
...Half.a day later the quartermaster looked
appraisingly at a forlorn figure, still coated
with trench mud, who stood before him at
attention, and presented the adjutant’s chit.
The Q.M, smiled to read the note: “Here-
with 237-5 Pte, Thomas Tembleton, who
heard a 5.9 explode, and became violently
ill. He ardently wishes to become a neutral,
so attach him to your staff, please, If you
discover in him a burning desire to kill
Germans send him back to his company.”
“Well, Tembleton, the only place for you
is as sanitary man, so sanitary man you
must be. Keep the lines in order and clean,
attend to the, latrines and that sort of thing.
Report to the R.Q.M.S. for orders.” And
later to the R.Q.M.S.: “Keep that chap up
to the mark. Quarter. Filthy job, sanitary
man, but someone's got to do it, and I think
he'll prefer it to the line.”
And so Thomas Tembleton’s military
romance ended in an appointment as sani-
tary man to the transport lines. Under the
stern and all-seeing eye of the R.Q.M.S. he
collected rubbish, replenished the incinerator,
buried tins, tilled up latrines. From dawn
to dark he toiled with shovel and can, dig-
ging sumps and sweeping up manure, collect-
ing garbage of every description for destruc-
tion by tire, fighting flies with chloride of
linie. Frequently he was flashed by the Quar-
ter’s stinging tongue; but Tembleton real-
ised that only by satisfying the Quarter could
he retain his job and avoid the awful pros-
pect of a return to the line; so to every
biting blast he returned a deferential “Very
good, Quarter,” and worked the harder.
Little by little his path became smoother.
Little by little, incongruous as it may seem,
he found a growing interest and almost pride
in his job. He began to compare the clean-
liness of his lines with those of the other
battalions near by, and fejt a thrill of satis-
faction when he realised that his would
compare favorably with any of them. So
once again he found peace and comparative
content. True, he sighed at times as lie
thought of his lifelong ambition, which
would never now he realised ; but even the
sacrifice of Paris leave w;as better than a
return to the hell they called the line.
One fine morning the Q.M. decided to visit
Battalion H.Q. in the line. A couple of
hours later he descended the deep dug-out
which the Battalion H.Q. staff occupied, and
was surprised at the nature of his reception.
“Hullo, here’s the Quarter!” bellowed the
C.O. Then, turning to the adjutant: “Collid-
ing, turn out the band pronto; tell them to
play the ‘Conquering Hero.’ This is a great
day Quarter ; we should drink your health in
Heidsieck 1906, but as there isn’t any we’ll
do it in tea instead.”
“What’s all the joke, sir?” asked the be-
vuldered Q.M. “The visit of a neutral like
myself to the line doesn’t usually result in
this sort of thing.”
“No, but you have brought us glory, mv
boy. The G.O.C. is pleased with us. He
has written and told us so. When we raided
in. front of Rossignol Wood last week. Divi-
sional H.Q. almost ignored us; but now we
are helping to win the war, and are com-
mended accordingly. Read it out, Goulding.”
The adjutant took up a message form and
read: The Divisional Commander desires
to congratulate the 3rd Battalion on the con-
dition of its transport lines, which were in-
spected yesterday. This Battalion’s lines
were the best in the Division for neatness
and cleanliness, which indicates most effi-
cient and careful attention to instructions
on the part of officers and other rankg. Please
advise C.O. Transport lines of the Divisional
Commander's appreciation.’ ”
“That’s it, Quarter,” said the Colonel;
'we kill Boche and the G.O.C. is silent: you
kill flies and get the 0.8. E.! Come and
have a wdiisky.”
“That’s that man Tembleton’s doing, sir.
He s a wonder as a sanitary man. Best I
ever had.”
Just then a runner entered. The adjutant
took the message and read; “Please detail
one officer and one other rank for Paris
leave; to report at Reception Camp to-
morrow at eleven o’clock. Leave will be
from the 17th to the 26tli inclusive.”
"Well, Quarter, here's your 0.8. E.,” said
the C.O. “I can’t spare an officer from the
line, at present, and you haven't been to
Paris. And you’d better send a man as well ”
“Very good, sir.”
Thomas Tembleton was called up suddenly
by the R.Q.M.S. as he sat down to his tea.
“The Quartermaster wants you at once
Tembleton. Double up.”
Tembleton, his knees sagging under him
and an icy fear clutching at his heart, made
his way to the Q.M.’s tent. He thought
that his officer had been satisfied with him
lately, but the fear that this was the end
persisted. With his heart pumping violently
he came to the Q.M.’s presence, saluted and
awaited the fateful verdict.
“Tembleton,” said the Q.M., “I have been
very pleased with the way you have been
doing your job lately. The lines have never
been better kept. One of my staff is to be
given ten days’ leave to Paris, and I pro-
pose to send you. Would you care to go?”
A mist swam before Tembleton’s eyes, and
he could not speak for a moment. Then
the military habit asserted itself, and be said
huskily, “Thank you very much, sir.”
The officer held out a yellow paper aud
handed it to him. "Go to the R.Q.M.S. for
anew outfit of clothes, and you can leave
for the Reception Camp after breakfast to-
morrow. That will do. I hope you enjoy
your leave.”
Thomas Tembleton, strive as he might,
could not keep a break out of his voice as
he stammered. “Thank God for your kind-
ness to me, sir!” and stumbled out into the
night.
Girl Studying Buds.
Buds to the young
And the bright flower to be,
And the long sunny days stretching on far
ahead
Gallantly.
The ripe seed for me,
Flung forth on the air,
Borne afar on the wings of wanton winds,
Who knows where ?
MAOKILANB,
ABNOLD WALL.


sss
v
H
WESTIN G HOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in atock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Ageiits—HOLMEs * CBIKCH, Brisbane. fniUfOßn N WAI FS
NZ Offlee-83-10? leatherston Street, Weltinsrton MJNLUKU WISM.N. 0. n ALLtf
Victorian Olllee—“Chancery House,” 485 Boprke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDEK, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide. S.A.
THE DAILY MAIL
BRISBANE
Is logically the first big daily to select in Queensland for any advertising
campaign. It gets results!
It is always bright and is progressive to a degree.
And its net circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge. to
be greater than that of any other daily in Queensland. Its companion
journal is
THE SUNDAY MAIL
Queensland’s big weekly newspaper and magazine. These two journals
give a “cover” in Queensland that is second to none. For rates and
other particulars, please apply to
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-294 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE,
Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“THE AGE”
Established 185 fa
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
What is needed more than anything else in
Newspaper advertising is “QUALITY.” It is
far better to use one OUTSTANDING medium
which holds the confidence of its readers than
to advertise in several mediocre ones.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“THE AGE”
has exerted an influence in the. affairs and
development of Victoria. Its present powerful
position has been gained by its literary worth,
which appeals to an intelligent public, and
by its accurate and complete news service.
These factors have a' direct bearing upon its
value as an advertising medium and cannot be
disregarded by the advertiser, who desires to
obtain the best value for his advertising and
expenditure.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation.
123,533.
Hates on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
Che Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all interstate agencies of
Messrs. Cordon & Qotch, price 11 d.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
P. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 4? Fleet Street, E.C.4.
IF YOU DESIRE
TO REACH THE
TASMANIAN
BUYING PUBLIC
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
should carry your message.
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town and
Country—this Popular Weekly goes regularly
into the homes of the people, and each
issue is eagerly read by men, women ana
children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest, with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with, current events
and high-class fiction 1 .
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays. Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macqe.arie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYLNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson,
Banlcmg House Chambers, 223
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: ‘Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
UanidMmim,
didpd indigMtm,
imtove mdtipatk
tahi
QwA
T'Z
Guinea
a Box.
*******
Vi
■
8
Mm
i
X
XI
y
i
VoL 5.
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1929.
e
A
THIS WEEK’S FREE PATTERN
{See page 64)
64 Pages
of
Reading for the Home
STORIES’. SPECIAL
ARTICLES
Fashions, Needlework
Health, Household,
Books, etc.
Published bj
è
Over 160,000 Copies Sold Every Week
*YW
'At
0°
„ S e ’ e f
c s
• lo ® * 6) '
f v U* 6
Ss^
»*
.•* V-’v -s<■ <*t
•** C*V^^


m
X v'-.v
m
i
fee
mK
sc*
:‘<fe
feSSSfe
1
* rince Charles fid ward was
court at Holyrood those
weeks, and never was such a
feasting and dancing. They
broached the great casks that
the lairds of the North had
brought down to honor the PCing
o
coming into his ozun. It zvas
memorable drinking ! Whisky
with the captured sunshine of
the barley in it the tang of
peat smoke, the softness of great
age. To taste- —made a man
dream of his hills and heather ,
of chasing clouds, of ripples on
a lonely loch. Fortunate are
you, grandson of my grandson ,
to have just such whisky still
Dezvaf s —to cheer and revive
you !
DEW A R’S
The Spirit
of his Ancestors
