

Iv\,\
W/y/
( \
*
v l/l
//'Wiy
JM Wsr y
■v
■ w
S V
7
IV' I
vl\
vV
•• • • A $P 0 T IN TH E SHADE •••. .*
Away where the rolling road cans temptingly.... and summer sunshine calls you out o’ doors there’s a grassy
patch awaiting you at the foot of a spreading tree. So pack a bag with the fare you need and fare you forth with
friends to find that restful spot in the shade. With the wherewithal for the roadside lunch—sandwiches, salads and
such-like fare—be sure to include the indispensable bottle or two of Tooth’s K.B. With the luncheon over and pipes
alight, you fill your glass and enjoy to the full that welcome “spot” in the shade.
TOOTHS
a true
LACER
Crewed & bottled by TOOTH 8c CO. LIMITED.
Kent Brewery, Sydney,
al!u i
. if w
*' y\ ■
7 fr
Hi
'O
y
"I
\v
r,
f itv
V
l
/
<?=-
\\l
X
/X
NS
ffvV-
-0
im.
-r
7, //
=X
gib
\
m
'*{*
US?
/>
Y 5
0)
&
v/\
V
V/
l/S/
u
7
*4l
s*
x"'-;
The Bulletin
MoW (VXVYVCSAAAj lo-CUMj.
Vol. 50.—N0. 2589.
Wednesday, September 25, 1929.
Price 6d.
Kegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


nrHE 1929 LIBRARY CATALOGUE is
now ready, and will be forwarded post
free, with full terms and particulars, on
application to
DYMOCTv’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Say it in ink on the printed page,
Say it to youth and say it to age,
Say it and soothing - for colds assure,
Say it —“Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.”
Say it in print from Townsville to Perth,
Say it and tell the world of its worth.
Say it to ail who lung troubles endure—
Say. “Take Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.”
—ADV'E,
Story Writmg
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON! ...
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne,
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Pool:let, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin'.
My Name
My Address
S.B
IL.YSAGH (7
3
O
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
r tt n
¥
Here we have sparkling
girlhood and vigor bus man-
hood. Charming Lois Moran
and George O’Brien, “FOX"
Stars, who featured in some
fine films recently You
know, of course, what keeps
them so happy and fit,...
*
m
You
also
can be
H
appy and
«
• • •
To be well is to be happy, and to take Cream
of Yeast is to be well! See, when yon
take this modern remedy, how aches and
pains vanish; how weariness departs; how
appetite improves, and how the joy of life
comes back! Cream of Yeast is the worlds
greatest tonic and invigorator, conveniently
available to all. Cream of Yeast makes you
feel better and look better in a lew minutes
— it’s a wonderful lightning jitolc-me-itp:
Never disappoints; forms no habit: no harm-
ful drug-content. Let Cream of Yeast
improve your health at once. All chemist'
and stores sell it—-24 tablets 1/11, 1* i ,,!
:>/<>, 1.25 for 5/9. Satisfaction or nmii.y
back guarantee.
Your Health and Spirit• will Quickly Improve
by taking Cream of Yeast
Amalgamated Laboratories, Kembla Hirilding, Sydney, and all High-class Chemists.
■
If any illustration in M THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
CAUTION.—The large sale of Eumenthol
Jujube.s has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name ot
menthol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure to ge«.
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes, lou may
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they are “just as good” as Hudson s Du men-
thol Jujubes. This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no reputation ot
their own, and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudsons
Eumenthol Jujubes.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6 ; or forward 1/6
in stamps to the Manufacturers, Hudsons
Eumenthol Chemical Co., Ltd., Sydney.
For Coughs, Colds and Sore Throats.
o
k. The Larynx <*
Organ of Veit*
B. The Trachea <*
Windpipe.
C. Th e Broncbul
Tubes of a dis-
sected lung.
D. A r.obe of on*
of the Lwip.
The Red Page
The Last Three Months
Barely three months remain for the com-
pletion of entries for The Bulletin’s
Second Novel competition, which will close
on December 31, 1929. at The Bulletin
Head Office, 214 George-street North, Syd-
ney.
The prizes are: First, £400; second, £250;
third, £lOO.
The conditions differ in only one par-
ticular from those that governed .the hirst
Competition—serial merit will be taken into
consideration in the judging. The prize
stories are to be available for publication
serially; but apart from that the copyright
of every story will be reserved to the
w'riter, to whom all profits on the publica-
tion of the story in book form will belong.
Cinema and dramatic rights also will be-
long absolutely to the writer, but the prize-
winning stories or others that may be
bought for serial use shall not be avail-
able for cinema or stage presentation until
after their publication as serials.
Competitors must be Australian-born or
bona fide resident in Australia. (Australia,
for the purposes of this paragraph, includes
New Zealand and the Southern Pacific.)
Members of The Bulletin and Woman’s
Mirror staffs will not be eligible to com-
pete.
Every stoiy for competition must be sub-
mitted under a nom de plume; and the
name and address of the writer, with the
nom de plume, must accompany it in a
sealed envelope, which will not be opened
until after the stories have been judged.
Stories submitted for competition must not
have been previously published. The fact
that a story was entered in the First Com-
petition does not bar it. Many a thoroughly
good story then failed to win favor because
of some alterable defect.
The length of the novel is left to the
discretion of the writer; but a novel which
goes beyond 100,000 words is not suitable
for serial publication, and something around
80,000 words has been found most, suitable.
Entries will be considered from the point
of view of suitability for serial publication
in either The Bulletin or the Woman’s
Mirror.
No restriction has been placed upon the
location or style of novels. While typed
MSS. would be preferred, no objection will
be taken to MSS. written in a clear and
legible handwriting.
If stamps are enclosed, all MSS. that do
not gain a place will be returned to their
authors promptly after the'decision is made.
Competitors, whose entries do not gain a
prize but whose work is considered suitable
for serial publication will be notified that
the Bulletin Newspaper Co. is prepared to
purchase the serial rights. Competitors
will be permitted to withdraw entries before
the closing date if they so desire.
The Bulletin will be pleased to supply
any further information upon request.
A Tropic Sense
In sight, smell, hearing, taste and touch
the average Australian is well enough
equipped to get through a normal life. But
there are other senses which this young
community might profit by cultivating—
among them, the tropic sense.
Present writer was well advanced in
years before this came to him—somewhere
north of Capricorn. Like the majority of
Australian writers, he had been bom in
the South, reared in the South and his
mental conceptions were entirely southern
in color and tone. The only Australia he
knew was a land of eucalypt-trees and
wattles; a land with a mild climate, and
where it snowed on the mountains in wintep
Gooseberries grew in this country, as well
as rye, oats, wheat, apples and other pro-
ducts of the British Isles. And in the infant
literature which endeavored to express it,
certain forms and properties, were in general
use. In its descriptive backgrounds the emu
strode over sunburnt plains, the laughing-
jackass made typical noises at sundown—
as a set-off to the magpie’s morning carol—
and the curlew and dingo Were the dis-
tinctive voices of the night.
Gordon and Marcus Clarke were generally
antipathetic to Australian Nature. Ivendall,
a much more authentic voice, presented only
pictures of the East Coast of N. S. Wales.
Lawson’s Australia was that of the Western
Plains, Quinn’s a delicately-inspired vision
of the Hawkesbury and Sydney Harbor.
The country through which Paterson’s
Clancy rode singing his immortal ballad
was similar to that of Lawson. The muse
of Victor Daley was not noticeably Aus-
tralian. The Australia of the artists was
and remains distinctly southern. Piguenit
had captured the light of southern forests.
MacCubbin, Streeton, Ford Paterson, Long-
staff. Tom Roberts and others were in-
dustriously and capably transferring Vic-
torian scenery to canvas; while Fulhvood,
Lister Lister, Lambert and a brilliant com-
pany expressed N.S.W.—Newcastle to
Iviama, Penrith to Bathurst Plains. Hans
Heysen was beginning to paint the trees of
Mount Lofty Ranges, and although Sid
Long’s color was florid, it made no claim
to be a reflection of northern Nature.
With such mental and visual records,
accurate, but almost entirely regional, I
crossed the Tropic of Capricorn in' 1899
to acquire a sixth sense bn this particular
plane of impression. It came very gradu-
al ly and I doubt if it can ever be complete.
I had to be a novice before I became an
adept and I am not at all sure that any
expressions of mine on Tropical Australia
in either prose or verse are adequate.
To be a true mahatma in this line one
would have to be bom and grow up no
further south than Onslow or Mackay.
Mentality is greatly meridional in its
growth. An acquired tropic sense may be-
come helpful, but it will not compare with
the tropic sense that must be natural to
a child of Australia who hears the rustle
of pandanus leaA'es •in his cradle and be-
holds the "orange and purple sundown to
which no laughing-jackass offers an un-
couth contribution, where the cassowary
replaces the emu, and the she-oaks do
not mourn. There is a world of difference
between a sunrise on the Endeavour River
and a sunrise at Geelong.
If, by some miraculous chance, a Com-
monwealth Government possessing eveh
rudimentary imagination were to have office
thrust upon it, that Government could do
worse than appoint a Royal Commission of
Painters and Writers to express tropical
Australia. Their reports could be hung on
the walls of National Galleries and
embodied in the literature of the country
to incalculable advantage. It, is only by
some such method that a tropic sense can
be given to a people the best part of
whose continental possession is located
within the tropic zone, and who remain
noticeably indifferent to this portentous
fact.
E. J. BRADY.
Art and the Next Generation
Two positions of great importance to
Australian culture will haye to be filled
before the end of the present year. Vic-
torian National Gallery must find a suc-
cessor to Frank Binder as buyer for the
Felton Bequest in Europe, and the place of
Bernard Hall as director of the gallery
will lie vacant if, as is probable, that veteran
resigns. Mr. Binder threw up his job as
a result of biting criticism of his purchases.
During his period of office some meritorious
works were acquired, but the good
pictures alternated with deplorable efforts
which made local critics see red and local
artists, even of the pavement variety, ask
why it was they had been overlooked. Mr.
Binder was a dilettante, a connoisseur, not
a "painter. His standards were obviously
affected by fkshion, and fashion in art is as
capricious as fashion in women’s clothing.
He was like a theatrical entrepreneur, anxious
to please everybody. The art equivalents
of “Journey’s End” alternated with “Bio
Rita,” and the prices paid for them had the
charming irrelevancy of a philatelist’s cata-
logue. The Felton Bequest has £lBO,OOO to
spend this year, so the new buyer will have
the opportunity of wielding much influ-
ence. <
The appointment of Bernard Hall’s suc-
cessor is really one and the same problem.
The buyer of Old and adolescent Masters
in Europe will be teaching the future gener-
ations of Australians just as much as the
gentleman who directs the brushes of the
pupils in the gallery art schools. The
Rinder experience is sufficient proof that
an artist is needed to buy pictures just as
much as to instruct how to paint them. In
the buying job he might be assisted by a
connoisseur, since artists are generally poor
business men.
I nominate Max Meldrum for one or
other of the positions. I am aware that
to some this suggestion will sound as
impious as nominating a Dyak witch-doctor
for the vacant archbishopric. Nevertheless,
the suggestion is at least as worth dispas-
sionate consideration as the proposal that
the position should be given to such a
brilliant but obviously blind-alley painter as
George Lambert.
I am not particularly interested in the
doctrines of Meldrum. In fact, of late I
have been exqessiyely bored with them. I
have been surrounded by hordes of estim-
able disciples all anxious to explain them
But disciples were ever more dogmatic and
fanatical than the teacher they followed
and the Meldrumites—or some of them—
are no exception. It is not a bad sign. 11
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


You can rely on "Truth in Advertising in all Anthony Horderns advertisements.
YOUR NEW SPRING SUIT
alasaiinq of LVs'o ■
“Centralised Service for Men”
For the greater convenience of their many men clients,
Anthony Horderns’ have re-arranged the Store so that all
departments concerned with men’s requirements are now on
the Ground' Floor, George Street level. This enables the busy
man to benefit by our “Famous Low Prices” in his entire outfit
—saving both time and money.
Former
Prices
nOW grouped together at
/ 1-7 l
7
/ip /
/io /
An Opportunity you cannot afford to miss!
It is not only the price which makes this offer so amazing the materials consist of the
Newest Spring Patterns and I onirigs, including Herringbones, smart Pin Stripes, Over-
checks and other correct styles. And the Colors? Fancy Blues, Fawns, Browns, Blue
Greys, Steel Greys and Dark Greys afford scope for the exercise of your individual taste
in such matters.
Rest assured that our usual high standard of Tailoring is maintained —your safeguard in
this is our unfailing Guarantee of Complete Satisfaction, which covers every transaction made
at Anthony Horderns’. We do not consider any purchase closed until you are absolutely
satisfied in every detail,
Department Ground Floor. We pay Carriage on Men’s Wear,
We will gladly post you Patterns on Application, which involve no obligation whatsoever.
Self-measurement forms also supplied free, with instructions for your assistance.
Iw
S 3
*>
i
/
:^s
©,
■■'■■■■■-■
I
I
1
•od o ‘dzuz xo a
:ss3jppY p^soj
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
'Phone: M 2401,
Day and Night.


RECISATER.ED
TRADE
OH
m
-
.
mm
m
v
■
~
.
■;
:: ; : I
.... ,
■ ■
i
m
* r
'* ■
:
w*
,
ifefgllgif, : - ! s»«
:
' *
V/^
;
V
I V
v - . . '
■ : ;
he Simple Safety^
of Private Flying
It needs no courage to fly, Kingsford Smith, Lindbergh, Hinkler,
and such pioneers need bravery, but ordinary private pilots think
no more of travelling in a Moth than of walking along the road.
The de Havilland Moth is regarded as “a general utility safe
vehicle” by many hundreds of private owners who use Moths for
pleasure and business, many thousands of private pupils who have
qualified for their licenses on Moths, and many hundreds of
Government pilots who use Moths in their daily work.
Australia is a de Havilland Moth stronghold. There are more Moths
here than all other light ’planes put together. Every Australian
Aero Club uses Moths. A Commonwealth-wide Moth Servicing
Organisation is available for all Australian owners.
Since 1925 the private popularity of the de Havilland Moth has
grown until there is a mass of proof of its suitability for ordinary,
plain, uneventful, simple, safe flying—for business, pleasure and
sport. The facts are covered fully in a sixteen-page illustrated
booklet which we shall be glad to forward you free on request.
THE DE HAVILLAND AIRCRAFT PTY. LTD.
WHITEMAN STREET, SOUTH MELBOURNE, 5.C.5, Victoria.
Dealers: Queensland and Northern Teritory...-Vena! Services, Ltd., Eagle Farm Aerodrome, BRISBANE,
Queensland, and LONGR.EACH, Queensland. Macßabertsoh Miller Aviation Co., Ltd.. 37 Angas Street,
ADELAIDE, S-A. Lee and Chisholm Bros. Motors, Campbell Street, SWAN HILL; Victoria. Matthews
Aviation Ptj., Ltd., Box No. 1860, GJP.O. MELBOURNE, Victoria.
The Moth with wings folded,
ready for housing in an
ordinary garage.
GIPSY MOTH
two-seater, with dual control, and
with steel body specially con-
structed for, Australian conditions.
ENGINE De Havilland “Gipsy.” 85-
1 00-bu. Petrol Consumption (ordinary
motor spirit), about 20 m-P-S-i o>l «)ri-
sumption (ordinary motor oil), 1000-1500
m.p.g. ,
SPEED Cruising speed 80-90 ni.p.h.,
to™ over 100 ni.p.h (Holder, ot
World’s Speed Record for 2-seater li*nt
aeroplanes —119.8 ni.p.h.)
GET-OFF and RANDING — Run of
SOGIO yards on taking oft. Run of 100-
130 yards on landing. Any small level
piece of ground is a suitable Moth landing
place.
RANGE With normal tankage, 300
miles without refuelling. Additional tankage
can be fitted.
DIMENSIONS Spa- 11 . ' vitl .‘ WI,] S S
folded, 9ft. lOin. Span with wings open,
30ft Length 23ft. llin. Height Bft. 9jin.
No hangar is necessary. One person can
handle the machine on the ground alone and
take off alone.
PRICE —£825 — Ready to fly away
from any capital city aerodrome, with full
equipment, registration and Government
Certificate of Airworthiness.
SAMSON
1 CLARK I


For Any Travel
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
In co-operation with
WAGONS-UTS CO.
s
PASSAGES
By all lines, all routes, all classes,
at bedrock fares. No booking fees.
TO EUROPE 1930
As berthing plans for all steamers
are open, BOOK NOW to ensure
comfort on the voyage.
ESCORTED EUROPEAN TOURS
We offer choice of a dozen different
tours leaving Australia in February,
March and April, at fares to suit all
purses. Apply for special pro-
gramme.
WINTER TOURS
To Queensland, Java, Siam, Japan,
Hawaii, California, Indo-China,
Ceylon, etc.
TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES
A boon to travellers, 3afe, conveni-
ent, good everywhere. Apply for
particulars.
SAILING LISTS
Programmes and all information
post free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE: 269 Collins Street.
SYDNEY: Martin Place.
ADELAIDE: 49 Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE: Adelaide Street.
PERTH: Forrest Place, opp. G.P.O.
AUCKLAND: Queen Street.
WELLINGTON: Corner Hunter and
Featherston Streets.
shows loyalty, at any rate. My nomination
of Meldrum is not based on a consideration
of his doctrines, but on the results ot their
application. For years I have been visit-
ing the National Gallery in Melbourne, and
after passing the parade of the pompous,
the inefficient, the slick and the superficial,
my eye invariably comes to rest with ever-
increasing satisfaction on Meldrum’s- portrait
of his mother. Other pictures may momen-
tarily attract with some sensational accent,
but here is a work which steadily gathers
force the longer you look at it. To find
the same qualities you will have to go to
the Rodin statuary, the Corot landscape, the
Raeburns—all by acknowledged masters.
The same phenomenon presents itself in
connection with current painting. It is
safe to say that every Victorian painter
who has reached any eminence of late
owes what is substantial in his work to a
more or less thorough assimilation of
the Meldrum canon. The discriminating
observer can see under the airy edifice of
W. B. Mclnnes’s portraits the steel frame-
work of the Meldrum principles—and until
lately Mclnnes’s winning of the Archibald
Prize had been an annual event. I could
mention the names of many others, but to
do so would be like revealing maidenlike
confidences, for the men who borrowed
from Meldrum and then left him are in
the position of relapsed Christians in Mecca.
Bernard Hall himself has publicly pro-
fessed the essentials of the Meldrum princi-
ples as being his aim as a teacher. That
he is unable to inculcate them with com-
plete success into his pupils merely indicates
that, consistency is a rare virtue and that
pupils vary.
The fact that Meldrum has exercised
such an enormous influence even though
publicly rejected and in voluntary exile is
a startling testimonial to the vitality of his
doctrines. I have never met the man, but I
have it on the testimony of his ex-pupils that
he was a most inspiring teacher—almost
paralysing to weak minds, but weak minds
don’t matter, anyway. The alternative to
Meldrum at. the National Gallery is one or
other of the popular painters. Artists
become popular mainly by accepting the
role of public amusers. They have ingenious
devices to impart, such as throwing sugar
on a wash of color to give it “atmosphere”;
but. what a student needs is not a repertoire
of tricks, but encouragement to exercise
his powers of observation.
F.S.
World Verse and Essays
Two books that stand out in the long
and apparently endless line of portmanteau
volumes are the recently-published An
Anthology of World Poetry, edited by Mark
Van Doi-en (Cassell), and Great Essays of
All Nations, edited by F. H. Pritchard
(Harrap; companion volume to the same
publisher’s “Great Stories of All Nations”).
"An Anthology of World Poetry” (re-
ceived from Angus and Robertson) is almost
literally what it purports to be—perhaps it
could not possibly be wholly that. As with
all anthologies, it is easy enough to fault.
The editor, doing his collecting in a New
York library, is too greatly impressed by
American effort for his choosing to be as
uniform as could be wished. For instance,
it is scarcely compatible with good or dis-
interested taste to include such slightness as
“Mist”—
Low-anchored cloud,
Newfoundland air,
Fountain-head and source of rivers,
Dew-cloth, dream drapery,
And napkin spread by fays;
Drifting meadow of the air,
Where bloom the daisied banks and violets,
And in whose fenny labyrinth
The bittern booms and heron wades;
Spirit of lakes and seas and rivers,
Bear only perfumes and the scent
Of healing herbs to just men’s fields
—while excluding altogether such a poet
as A. E. Housman. Nevertheless, the
disproportionate American section is in-
teresting for the translations from the
Red Indian and for the modern verse of
Edwin Arlington Robinson, Carl Sandburg
and T. S. Eliot, with Poe’s and Amy
Lowell’s beauty and Whitman’s thought.
One other thing which clips a little off the
appropriateness of the title’s adjective is
that no part of the British Empire outside
Britain itself is represented, for it would
be wolfish to claim Gilbert Murray’s trans-
lation of the chorus from Hippolytus (“O
For the Wings of a Dove”) as Australian.
However, it has a splash of special interest,
and its beauty is fairly characteristic of
the book;—
Could I take me to some Cavern for mine hiding,
In the hilltops where the sun scarce hath trod;
Or a cloud make the home of mine abiding,
As a bird among the bird-droves of God ;
Could I wing me to my rest amid the roar
Of the deep Adriatic on the shore
Where the water of Eridanus is clear,
And Photon’s sad sisters by his grave
Weep into the river, and each tear
Gleams a drop of amber in the wave;
To the strand of the Daughters of the Sunset,
The apple-tree, the singing and the gold;
Where the mariner must stay him from his onset.
And the red wave is tranquil as of old ;
Yea, beyond that pillar of the End
That Atlas guandeth, would 1 wend ;
Where a voice of living water never ceaseth
in God’s quiet garden by the sea,
And Earth, the ancient life-giver, inereaseth
Joy among the meadowk, like a tree.
The book has more Than 1250 pages; it
ranges from the'thirty-fifth'century b.o to
the present flay; it includes translations from
the Chinese. Japanese, Sanskrit, Arabian,
Persian, Hebrew, Egyptian, Greek, Latin,
Italian, Spanish, French, German, Scandi-
navian and Russian and its translators include
E. Powys Mathers (part responsible for one
of the most beautiful translations ol the
“Arabian Nights”), Arthur Waley, Lafcadio
Hearn, and pretty well every important
name in the list of English poets, including
Bill Shakspeare himself. The editor has
not attempted to “represent” the various
literatures; he has used only translations
which seemed to him to be-poetically-loyely
in themselves. The Red Page’s leather
medal for the lines most suitable for
Answers to Correspondents goes to the
American Robert Frost: —
What kept him from remembering what it was
That brought him to that creaking room was age.
In the other book 229 essays, representa-
tive of 206 authors and 26 countries, and
ranging “from Confucius to Chesterton,”
are pressed into about 1000 pages. No
charge of too keen a patriotism can be
levelled against this editor; his nationality
cannot be fixed by his selections. Another
merit the book holds is a brief introduction
to each country and each writer. Whether
all the contents are essays looks debatable;
but even if two-thirds be rejected by the
precise from such classification, what goes
overboard will remain literature. Gilbert
Murray is mentioned in this book also,
but only incidentally as an authority in
the Greek, and that is as near as any
Dominion gets to representation. Of the
translations, no less than 63 are of essays
that have never before appeared in English.
Both volumes are well made, but the
anthology of verse has to have a last word
here—it is a polished piece of literary work.
A Satchel of Books
What Cheer? compiled by Ralph Frost
(T. Werner Laurie). A collection of chest-
nuts —1597, to be exact —indexed for the
benefit of the hardy race of after-dinner
speakers to. whom they are meat and drink.
The Life and Writings of Alexandre Dumas,
by 11. A. Spurr (Dent). A reprint of the
line, friendly Life first published in 1902 to
mark the centenary of the birth of Dumas,
and now in its second appearance marking
the centenary of the premiere of “Henry 111.
and his Court” at the Comedie-Francaise.
An intimate, living piece of biography and a
brisk, embracing survey of the ..most ...extra-
ordinary output of fiction in history.
The Third Route, by Philip Bassoon
(Ileinemann). An account of a 17,000-mile
flying-tour from England to Egypt and India
and back. The tale is rather limited in
interest, but is briskly told; it reveals the
impression left on the author by the work
of the Royal Air Force beyond the borders
of Britain. Indicating the safeness of modern
'planes he mentions, incidentally, that
Imperial Airways ’planes have since January,
1925, flown 3,500,000 miles without the
death or serious injury of a single passenger.
Yorkshire, Lanarkshire and Derbyshire in
Prose and Verse, edited by R. Pape Cowl,
M.A. (Elkin Mathews and Marrot). Fore-
runners of a handsome anthology designed
to cover all the counties of England. These
volumes should appeal to every Englishman
(or Australian with an historical sense),
whose love of his own particular bit of soil
was vividly portrayed by the late Rupert
Brooke. An interesting feature is the inclu-
sion of letters such as that of Anthony Bab-
ington, of Derbyshire, condemned traitor, to
Queen Elizabeth, pleading for his life.
The Persians Arc Coming , by Bruno Frank
(Knopf; Dymocks). This book has only 150
small pages, but it holds more action and
greater range of action, better and more
complete character portrayal, and altogether
is a bigger piece of literature than are most
volumes ten times its length. It is tin-
work of an author with frankly stated pur-
poses : he is bitterly opposed to the idea of
war and war's instruments, and lie feels the
indignity if not danger of Europe being
overrun with African and American primitiv-
ism. It is to lash these things that lie has
written his book. Il'is leading diameters are
two idealists, the Frenchman Duval and vhe
Herman Carmer, whom In- shows in opposi-
tion to war and primitivoness. this last
strongly suggested in the grip which a negro
woman dancer lias over France. The, book
closes with a symbolical murder, which gives
the reader the key to the authors idea of
which side will win. Craftsmanship of a
high order saves it from degenerating into
a tract, and makes if a clear, miusual piece
of fiction.
Six Plays of Eugene O'Neill, by Alan D.
Mickle (Cape; Roycroft. Sydney). In
critical chapters the well-known Bulletin
writer reviews the American playwright's
“Anna Christie,” “The Hairy Ape," "The
Great God Brown.” “The Fountain.” “Marco
Millions” and "Strange Interlude,” and con-
currently inquires into and sums up upon
the genius of O'Neill. Galsworthy, Shaw,
Barrie he labels brilliantly clever, but only
surface writers, more popular in their day
than is O’Neill, just as their prototypes in
the Elizabethan age were more popular
than Shakspeare-. He does not wonder,
in view of the predominating mass of trash
that pours out of America, that O’Neill's
unconventional plays make no great head-
way—the wonder is that they have not been
altogether dismissed as just smart, loud
notoriety-seeking “American,” and allowed
to go at that. As Shakspeare innovated
with the soliloquy, Ibsen with the foil.
O'Neill, in “The Great God Brown,” inno :
vates with his masks. Concluding his force-
fully written chapters, the writer asserts
that O’Neill is stamped by “Strange Inter-
lude,” if by no other play, as easily the first
dramatist of the present age.
♦ —~
"M.G.S.”: Following on a review in the
Rod Page, the Vic. police have released “My
First, Two Thousand Years,” by G. S. Vie-
reck and Paul Eld ridge. At the same time
Adelaide has suddenly decided to suppress
it,. The position now is that'Melbourne
people, having been apprised by the action
of the local constabulary of the existence
of a “naughty” volume, have cleaned up the
Adelaide stocks. So Adelaide will no doubt
order its copies from Melbourne.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except oj a hostile, character) will be taken of communicationx insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
R..T.A.: You don't make it sound true.
Especially that last par John Ernbrey : Very well
done, but Thk Bulletin hasn’t the space to dawdle
over -a. job... .Shore C.: Close up, but the manner
doesn’t attract us. .. . G.C.H.: See it you can't bring-
in the climax more suddenly.... Y.A.E.: It’s as
tangled as Billy Hughes’s footprints. . . .11. D.: You’re
wrong. The lady who married the second Baton
Bridport was not Horatio Nelson’s “daughter and
only child,” but the daughter of William, Horatio’s
brother. All the same, Horatio was not childless:
but his wife wasn’t the infant’s mother... .H.J.E.:
Glad to hear from you; but you’re digging in well-
worked beds. ... S.L.: No; but miles better than
most... . L.S.: You couldn’t have read the,, article
carefully.. . .H.T.L.: All rather hackneyed, but a
good setting might make a song of it... .G.1.R.;
Everything used is paid for; banal verse won’t be
used..., Anon.; Enter:—
Tramping along on
the half mile track
with a well worn swag
swung on his back
A can in his hand
and dog by hi’s
side.
He was happy and
Strengthening his strides.
What material were they made of ?.... J.8.C.: Doesn’t
suit... .R.K.: The “ultimate condemnation” was a
sound line... .Sandy: Blighted... .R.F.S.: “Mem-
ories” possibly interesting to you, but they’d bo
terribly dull to anyone else... .J.R.S.: Lines written
in desperation:—
I won’t blubber
I’ll marry another ;
I’ll jolly well go
And marry her mother.
. ...D.McR.: Poems are not. AVatch Red Page for
details... .V.M.: No; published for private distri-
bution. .. .W.H.8.: “Shall I tell you the story of
Willyum?” Not again; we bit once... .H.AA 7 .: The
nays have it... .C.M.: On the heavy side... .E.O’D.:
Try it elsewhere... .AV.G.P.: Don’t fancy the old
mill’s rattle... .Groper: No room for morality
rhymes... ..I. A.H.: 'lt’s pretty ancient... .C.McL.:
Doesn’t quite suit... .Laughing Pagan: Sorry, can’t
place it... .L.M.8.: That has had all the space the
Red Page can afford.... Teebeedee: No edge to the
razor verse... .C.J.0.: Thinnish... .Bushey: “B
stands for Bruce.” And also for Basket... .V.G.AV.:
That idea’s nearly old enough for musical comedy.
... .Z.V.W.: Rung off... .E.J.M.: A fragment, not a
story.... D.C.M.J.: One ghost at a time, please.
. ...E.A.D.: Can’t introduce lady who “was withered
though still under forty”.... AV.T.C.: Graphic
touches, but ending still inconsequential and whole
much too long T. W.H.: No money in your tin
prospect... .P.G.H.F. : Has the spirit of the bush in
it but not a constructed story.... K.K.: Your dia-
monds neither sparkle nor string together... .K.C.P.:
Idea used before... .G.M.R.: Might make van adven-
ture story for a boys’ magazine; verses very juvenile.
... .AVimmera: No coppers for the merry-go-round.
. ...K.C.: It’s another that “doesn’t earn the price
of a drink”... .Ruvon: Decline to fall for “Sharper
Jim”... .K.D.: K.O A.A.S.: Far too faint....
L.P.A.: Anyway, it’s over R. 8.: The “Srgt.
Major” is now helping the daisies... .F.E.: Can’t find
a peg for grandfather’s coat... .AA’heatgrower: Rather
long for this column. . . .T.J.H.: Both fell at the
first hurdle... .AA’.H.B.: Rambling verses are on
the track once more.... Koonee: With you, rhyming
is not a gift—it’s an accident.... H. A.: Like its
'opic, it is done Anglo-A us.: It should have been
Lady Agnes Lvgon, of course. .. . R.D.: A touching
picture:—
1 am a poor old swaggy
A poor old swaggy 1 am.
1 only have my old Matilda
And an old black billy-can.
Refrain.
Under the tall gum-trees a-laying
With tlie stars a-shining bright
I am dreaming where 1 will
Be camping again to-morrow night.
. ...C.P.: “The Dinbolftts” almost burnt the basket.
. ...T.C.: Thompson’s link not in this time....
8.5. H.: Not far off. But don’t be verbose....
R.H.: Incredible... .A.J.C.: Impressive in its way,
but a good many people are writing stories of that
sort.... A. 8.: The faint hope has vanished....
G.H.W.: Sentiment sound; style found wanting....
31.15.: Sob stuff... .J.W.: Essay obscure; stories in-
consequential ... .Yowie: Tas. has had Proportional
Representation since 1907... .Sealer: Canada,
3,729,665 square miles and 9,519,000 people; Aus-
tralia, 2,974,581 and 6,336,000 T.G.E.: No, he
was born at Port Adelaide, though he spent some
time in Westralia; he belonged to the old A.W.A.
... .Bushbloke: “The Navvy’s Lament” has a pathos
oi its own:—
Writing, I once thought, was not a hard collar
At which to earn many an easy dollar ;
But, though I’ve a fountain-pen and reams of paper,
Money won’t come my way. What’s the caper V
For it matters not how hard I try,
I successfully fail to catch the Editor’s eye.
Is it because I lack the necessary brains
When in quest of the quids of literary gains?
And that, as a writer, I’m far too stupid;
Persisting in Springtime Sonnets and tales of Cupid ?
... .Antiq.: You might find what you want in Jose’s
“History of Australasia” or Blacket’s “History of
South Aus.”. . . .Nabawah : Fairer was born in Eng-
land. So was your man, Sutton.... Eng. Precedent :
There has never been a joint sitting of Senators and
Reps., but constitutional, provision exists under
Section 57. Should the Senate twice reject a par-
ticular measure, both Houses may be dissolved; if
the Government survives the election and the Senate
is still recalcitrant, the measure may be referred to
a joint sitting and passed “if affirmed by an absolute
majority of the total number of members of the
Senate and House.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.R.W.: That’s not a horse—we saw one once.
... .A.T.H.: Drawing doesn’t compare with the joke,
but it’s bad enough.... E.P.: Gags the worst part
of them... .H.S.: Knocked out, amid cheers....
J.A.G.: No one will ever miss that wheeze....
J.8.R.: A frank opinion? Frankly, it isn’t worth
one S.P.: An old one, lad N.Y.: Thumb-nail
atrocities... .8.J.: You are certainly giving the
gii’ls better figures.... M.G.8.: Nothing for Dolly
and P011y... .P.H.: That joke again..T.S.M.:
Heavy and angular penwork; insipid gags
W.J.M.8.: Should improve with practice; but you’ll
have to think out smarter ideas... .P.C.: Muddy.
R.P.: No fashion-plates, please !... .1.D.5.:
Below publication standard, but don’t be discouraged.


ś
y
;
■'
m \>
mm
' 7\
\
**• Cl*--
ms
h
%% is£A ‘
I
Mm
n*»
L
v
m
%
s
■' o
■ %
>**
fc.V
Sm
Si
ft*
BSI
m
r%
w
**«% *- *< >VI
■■
. ..
X
No
. 10j r^p>-:
--" 'V
eai


The Bulletin
Vol. 50.—N0. 2589.
September 25, 1929.
THE RIVALS.
THE LADY-IN-TEARS: “Dear man, do let me tear up that stupid paper. It’s really not half so important as I am.”
(Meantime the old gentleman in the background groans because nobody is giving him any attention at all.)


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
George Street, Sydney; Box 2521118.
Victoria: 111/-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 21/0 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, JF.C.2.
Regent 57 95.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, Is.
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom.- joz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional !,oz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., l\d.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: l,oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
A TROPIC SENSE, BY E. J. BRADY .. 2
AR'T AND THE NEXT GENERATION 2, 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . . . 5
THE FRONT-PAGE CARTOON, BY LEASON . . 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
Where is Billy Hugh es ? .. 8
SCULLIN HAS HIS SAY 8
WHAT GERMANY IS LIKE TO-DAY, by
Ernest Osborne .. . . . . 8
IS ARBITRATION TO BE ABOLISHED? .. 8
THE STANDARD OF LIVING—WHAT DOES
IT MEAN? .. 9
BROTHERHOOD IN PRACTICE—S’AFRICA
IN PERIL, by H. R. Bonsfiekl . . . . 9
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 9
POLITICAL POINTS 10
POVERTY POINT .. .. ' 11
“The Dilemma”
—A cartoon by Percival . . , . . . 11
PERSONAL (with caricatures) .. .. ..13
SOCIETY (with drawings).. .. .. 14, 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..16
SYDNEY TIVOLI GOES WEST .. . . l(i
MELBOURNE AGRICULTURAL SHOW .. 16
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 18, 20
COLES’S STORES 18
UNION BANK 18
ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO 18
HUME PIPES 18
ROMA OIL CRASH 20
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 23, 25
Free Service Department • .. 26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 32
WHAT’S BEST TO DO WITH STUBBLE
STRAW? 28
THE COST OF TRACTORS 28
BANANA WILT 28
FARM QUESTIONS ANSWERED . . . . 32
SMOKE-OH 34
PEN AND PICTURE 37
ART SHOWS 37
THE INKY WAY 37
SPORTING (illustrated) .. .. ..39, 41, 42
Rosehill Races .. 39
MENTONE RACES . . . . . . • . . 39
BUSINESS, ROBBERY 42
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 45
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 48
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 50
“Paradise Plumes” . . 47, 51, 52
COMPLETE SHORT STORIES—
“TWO LIVES,” by Margaret Fane and Hilary
Lofting .. . . . . . . 55, 57
“ANINA,” by H. E. Burrows . . . . 57, 58
VERSE.—By R. Crawford, M. Forrest, Roderic
Quinn, Furnley Maurice, Myra Morris
52, 55, 58
• •
Next Week.
Three Complete Stories, including “THE MIRACLE,”
a gripping story of life and love-making among
the head-hunters of the Upper Sepik, by lon
Idriess. One of the most fascinating stories
ever written about Wildest New Guinea.
[For all matter in this issue requiring a signature
under the Commonwealth Electoral law, where it
is not otherwise specified S. H. Prior, J. E. Webb
and James Edmond, all of 214 George-street, Syd-
ney, accept the responsibility.]
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1929.
WHERE IS BILLY HUGHES?
In gqing to the country on the industrial
arbitration issue, the Government is doing
the right thing, taking the only course which
is honest and logical and courageous. But
it commences the campaign with obvious
tactical disadvantages. It has, in the first
place, to fight not only Scullin’s party and
Hughes's “cave,” but the Communists, the
people whose toes have been trodden on by
the taxgatherers during the past six years,
the men who have expected office or reward
and haven’t got it, the Federal unions of
Government employees and the moving-
picture people. It finds itself opposed, too,
by the Age and some of the flapper papers,
as well as the Labor and Communist press.
And Dr. Mannix, replying to a Federal
Labor member who called him “a bulwark of
democracy,” said he knew how he was going
to vote and “hoped as a result of the
election that Australia would get a Govern-
ment that would better respond to the
ideals of the Australian people than any-
thing they had had up to this.”
It is a motley horde, yet from its very
numbers, formidable; and it has, moreover,
not at all a bad plan of campaign. By
throwing the Labor vote to Stewart the
Scullidores have twice returned an im-
placable enemy of Bruce-Page in Conserva-.
tivg Wimmera. Now these tactics are to
be followed in Conservative North Sydney,
Wentworth, Fawkner, Franklin and (prob-
ably) Perth; and if they are successful
there as well, it is not at all unlikely that
the Government will fall.
But what then? How much nearer shall
we be to that ideal Government which his
Grace and the Age hope for? The election
is nominally being fought by the motley
horde for the maintenance of the Common-
wealth authority in industrial matters. The
Labor party professes to be pledged to that
course. Yet only a few weeks ago Federal
Labor congratulated the timber-workers on
their “splendid” resistance to Federal autho-
rity; and only a few weeks before that, the
effigy of a Judge of this very Arbitration
Court was burned along with the ballot-
papers whose use the Court had ordered.
How can Mr. Hughes combine with that
party? How can Mr. Marks and the
gentlemen from Westralia and Tasmania?
Assisted by the flapper press, Dr. Mannix
and the picture-show interests, it may be
possible for the Labor party to leave the
Government with a minority in the House
of Representatives. But the fact that a
motley horde may combine to defeat a
Ministry does not mean that a motley horde
can carry on the government. Where is the
policy of this motley horde? Certainly Mr.
Scullin has outlined his policy. But where
is the policy of Mr. Scullin, Mr. Hughes,
Mr. Marks, Mr. Stewart and Mr. Mc-
Williams? There is no policy cpmmon
to these men; nor can there be one. All
they hope to do is to .cry long and loudly
enough about the sins of the Government to
get Ministers thrown out and thus make
office available to those who can manage
to grab it. So it comes to this: indifferent
as the performances of the Bruce-Pages
may have been, they at least offer us some-
thing definite. Those who vote for them
will know precisely what they are voting
for. Those who vote against them will be
merely throwing Australia on to the lap of
the gods.
The whole business exposes once more
the weaknesses of our system of party
government. Thirteen years ago Mr.
Hughes was flung out of a party because
he disagreed with it about a single matter.
He had been its mouthpiece concerning a
thousand other matters; but because he
would not sink his personal judgment in
this one matter, out he went —to join
people whom he had opposed on the thou-
sand matters! Inevitably, when these
thousand matters or their relations came
up again there was trouble between him
and his new associates. The marvel is
that the association has lasted as long.
Long ago The Bulletin pointed to the
Labor party as Mr. Hughes’s proper place.
He could do real service to Australia there;
under our system of party government he
can be little more than mischievous where
he is—if he is anywhere.
SCULLIN HAS HIS SAY.
Scullin, leader of the Federal Opposition,
is a rather dim figure at this crisis. He
never held a portfolio, and his voice is
apt to be- drowned by the sonorous bray
of Theodore. He didn’t make the crisis,
but had it made for him by that supremely
good hater, Hughes. If he returns success-
ful from the polls without having the luck
to lose William by the way, he will be
embarrassed by a very awkward adjunct
who is capable of hating Scullin in office
just as much as he hated Bruce in office.
Still this partially-eclipsed novice has issued
bis programme ats in duty bound, and if it is
vague and uncertain there is nothing un-
usual about that.
The political shindy having started over
Federal arbitration, that matter had to be
mentioned. The Scullinary policy is to
revise the law on “sound, business-like”
principles, whatever they may be, and free
it from entanglements which are not speci-
fied, and make it equitable, expeditious and
cheap. But nothing is said about making
the law one that is capable of being en-
forced, instead of being kicked all over the
premises, and that is a serious omission.
Money is to be spent in “the develop-
ment of existing goldmines” in order to
put the industry on a “sound foundation.”
The idea of making partially-exhausted
mines and an old and nearly dead industry
young and independent again by pauper-
ising it with Government grants is a poor
one, but there is a sort of glamor about it,
and applicants won’t be lacking.
A system of Federal unemployment in-
surance is to be created; but there is lack
of information as to whether the taxpayer
will find all the money, and who will find
the rest of the money if he doesn’t, and
how much money is likely to be wanted.
“The burden of the military machine is
to be lightened by applying the necessary
means of defence to the development of our
country and the promotion of our indus-
tries.” The exact meaning of this is wrapped
in profound obscurity; it may mean the
abolition of the Defence forces; or almost
anything.
Compensation to injured workers is to be
increased.
Unification is thrown in as a side-line.
The Parliament at Canberra is to run the
entire show, with the right,, of course, as
every Government has, to delegate any
powers it likes, for as long or short as it
likes, and with such limitations as it likes,
to anybody it likes. It is a characteristic
of the Australian mainland that population
gathers almost exclusively round the State
capitals. If, instead of unification, we were
given 15 States and State capitals, the
unhappily lopsided position would have a
chance to improve.
The Scullin Government (if any) pro-
poses to be generous to impecunious States
whether it has the money or not, and
whether the States still exist or not.
There is a recrudescence of the old pro-
posal that. the Commonwealth Bank shall
be converted from a “bankers’ bank” into
a “people’s bank,” to the alleged great
advantage of the community. The Com-
monwealth Bank belongs to the people, and
to all the people equally. The people’s
Government gets the profits, and finds them
very handy. The institution does an im-
mensity of work for the people’s Govern-
ments. Every inhabitant may do business
with it, and write cheques on it, and so
many of them do this that it already holds
over a quarter of the deposits in the country,
the rest being divided among 20 other in-
stitutions. The craze of Labor politicians
to mess and muddle with this prosperous
institution, and put political paws into it
for no defined reason except the catchword
about a “bankers’ bank,” is highly sus-
picious.
And Scullin promises to put “unification
of railway gauges” in the “forefront of a
progressive works policy.” He doesn’t really
mean anything of the sort, nor does any
other political leader. It is all make-believe
and self-deception. A great deal is said
about the conversion of the 5789 miles
of sft. 3in. line to the 4ft. B|in. measure-
ment, making 12,821 miles of standard line.
This generally boils down to a proposal that
certain main lines shall be standardised.
And the two States affected (Victoria and
S. Australia) have a definite objection to
letting the Commonwealth interfere with
their property, the odds being ten to one
that loan money would give out suddenly
and leave them with a partially torn-up
system and a heap of chaos. Even the
brightest kind of success would leave Aus-
tralia with 13,463 miles of 3ft. 6in. railway
and over 2000 miles of odd measurements,
and the much-blathered-about “unification”
would have* hardly commenced after all.
In a land with no spare money, worn-out
credit and none too much enterprise the
simplest course, if the States could be
induced to take a risk, would be to adopt
the 3ft. 6in. railway gauge, which is far
the most prevalent, all round. To scrap
the 4ft. and sft. 3in. in its favor
would involve no costly widening of
embankments, bridges, viaducts, cuttings
and tunnels, and the money spent would go
mostly in labor, the bill for material being
infinitesimal. All Scullins and others
whose programmes are never complete with-
out some misty platitude about a uniform
railway gauge should consider this practi-
cal aspect of the case. There is just a
chance that some enthusiasm might be
aroused for a scheme of real unification,
while a plan which would leave Australia
half one thing and half another fails to
create any.
As a postscript the Labor leader’s ideas
about big finance are that “loan moneys
are to be raised in Australia, and spent
only on developmental works.” Loan
moneys are already raised in Australia —
as much as can be got, and the price of
bonds sold “over the counter” has been
reduced in the hope of raising more—so
that is old and stale. And they are mostly
spent as Scullin describes; but unfortu-
nately many of the developmental works
don’t develop any profits, and almost all
the productive works don’t reproduce
enough to anything like pay their way.
And Scullin neglected to explain where
he expects to get the gold with which to
pay interest and sinking fund abroad by
raising paper loans and revenues here.
The problem of cutting down imports by
sonie £30,000,000 per annum in order to
square the trade balance is at least worth
a mention when a bright young reformer is
out to save the country.
GERMANY TO-DAY.
From semi-dilapidated farmhouses where
Germany borders Belgium and France, the
scene changes magically. Everything now is
orderly. Looking new, yet is not new.
Merely fresh, wholesome. Every foot, so
to speak, of the soil is utilised. Making
pleasant contrast in the verdant summer seg
of green, patches of forest stand darkly—
copses thick-set with straight-stemmed trees
in various stages of growth: material testi-
mony to national foresight and enterprise.
This is the judicious afforestation that
makes Germany just about independent of
foreign timbers except tropical kinds.
The traveller becomes further conscious
of national prosperity expressed in railway
equipment. Belgian railway carriages are
the most execrable; British the most com-
fortable; the German next: object-lesson
this in national standards. Mere sight of
a British passport carries the traveller
everywhere. Not so with all travelling
nationals. Some passports are quite closely
examined. But that is a case of tit for tat.
The towns, too, offer striking contrast—
are bright, beautiful. After the obvious
poverty of Belgian towns and the antiquated
and indifferent sanitation of most French
ones come cities, towns and villages as
nearly perfect as seems possible.
And the German people match their land.
Down the railway platform of the big
Rhineland cities a French officer half-
saunters, half-struts, head thrown back, chest
protruded, dapper. The people ignore him
and he seems conscious of the disdain.
The difference between the people of
France and Belgium and the contrast of
both against the Germans is arresting. Inci-
dentally, in Belgian restaurants, trains and
express passenger steamers, French currency
is declined, but British and German coins
are taken with avidity. In Belgium and
France the people are not generally well
attired and seem preponderatingly under-
sized. In some places women perform
menial tasks in the streets. In Germany
pretty well everybody is well dressed—
not less well attired than Australians.
The people are debonair, confident, un-
consciously self-assured and friendly to the
British stranger within their gates. Sus-
picion, so conspicuous in France, where
cameras must not be used even where no
sane person would waste an exposure, is
lacking. Tq my questions people in the
street, including policemen, frequently
replied in English greatly superior to my
German, with accompaniment of friendly
smile and urbane salute.
In the bierhall-restaurants there is
mutual friendliness. Strangers taking
seats at the same table smile and converse.
Those finished arise with a polite “Mahl-
seit,” are answered, and bow genially as
they part. This amity is impressive for
its suggestion of national strength and
character. I know no nation, not even the
best Americans, more unconsciously self-
confident. This is not a defeated people.
One understands why France and Belgium
are uneasy and oppose relaxation of Treaty-
imposed control.
Yet there are currents —remembrances.
Too many of Germany’s best lost their
fortune and their all in the debacle of the
currency which plunged innocents from com-
fort into poverty and straits almost unimag-
inable. Stories were told of how French
business houses paid all debts with a
million-mark banknote; how foreigners
bought valuable properties in best streets
for a few pounds or dollars, in exchange
for money so depreciated that the im-
poverished vendor had barely sufficient for
subsistence; how business houses of certain
nations, thinking war coming, would not pay
their bills.
In different ways impoverished people
discussed the temporary debasement of the
mark. But the resentment was against the
Government of the day, not against the
nation —not against Germany. And a
generation is growing up which remembers
but dimly that period of national stress.
There were illuminating sidelights, too.
A daughter of an old German country
family, typical of the best in the nation,
raised a great sum necessary for erection of
a hospital. In appreciation the Empen
sent her a personal message. She
always idolised Wilhelm. But “I wouli
not credit that he had fled to the safety oi
Holland,” she said dully. “Yet it was tme.
and I wiped out as far as I could the
memory of the poltroon who deserted his
people.”
Nevertheless, the consensus of opinion
among men of commerce and industry is
that things are not sound. In the Ruhr
district, the most impressive industrial
area in the world, great works stand idle.
“Our inability to meet impossible demands
serves France as a pretext for throwing an-
other battalion of soldiers in for us to feed,
said one. “Our people look well fed, well
clothed and prosperous, but things are not
healthy beneath,” another insisted. “The
drain is too tremendous. France tries to
bleed us white,” said a third.
“In addition to 'reparation’ imposts whose
legitimate application sometimes is dubi-
ous,” a great manufacturer told me, "we
are handicapped by imposts from within:
widow pensions, child support, workmens
compensation. It cannot go on.” I smiled.
It sounded so Australian. So I told him
how Australian manufacturers are similarly
handicapped, with extras added to the
burden, and that they, too, say things can-
not continue. He looked his surprise. He
hadn’t known that. Then he smiled. “Oh.
well, it is a post-war world,” he added
philosophically.
Germany will not revert to monarchy.
Neither are the people planning a war of
revenge. The German people are too busy
retrieving that which was lost temporarily
and are cheerfully working their way back
into the forefront of independent nations
In her wisdom Britain recognises this, and
the result is mutual respect and friendship.
Ernest Osborne.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Is Arbitration to Be Abolished?
Of course Mr. Hughes talked rank non-
sense to his North Sydney constituents the
other night when he made his first apolog?
for putting the country to the expense of
a general election. He spoke throughom
as if the withdrawal of the Commonwealth
from the field of industrial arbitration
would leave this country without any in-
dustrial tribunals whatever —would lean
disputes to be settled by the old method
of warfare.
As Mr. Hughes well knows, every State
has its own industrial courts, and they "
not be interfered with. In his own St a
of N. S. Wales, Justice Piddington, Justio-
Street and Justice Cantor will be entire!?
unaffected. All the powers these thr
have to-day they will continue to hate-
Judge Perdriau will likewise be unaffectu
in his industrial work by anything - £
Bruce will or can do. Indeed, the who-
tremendous edifice of industrial law wine


AND THEY’RE VERY HUNGRY, TOO.
BILLY: “Come on, boys, you help Wally to put me through the window and we’ll give you all some.”
tiie State has built up, the whole tremen-
dous machinery which the State has erected
J lth indust n l l l C|U ! rrel f r d
CO ; f , and wa f es > wdl be untouched.
be nhlp ° yers i nor . em ? oye H WIU
the Fpdprnl no- dw CO +h a <f + ai ? St l^ 1 : 1 ,
t if I the State the State
against the Federal. They will have one
authority to appeal to, and one only. What
would happen if there were Federal as weU
as State courts to deal with, aav, divorce?
If there were State as well as Federal laws
governing marriage? What endless con-
fusion and chaos would result if a couple
were lawfully wedded under the State law
and living in adultery under the Federal
Jaw! Competing authority in the industrial
sphere is just as absurd, and perhaps in-
finitely more damaging; certainly it has
produced infinitely greater confusion and
chaos. What the Government proposes to
do is to end the confusion and chaos by
withdrawing one of the two competing
authorities. To say that that involves the
destruction of arbitration is either a stupid
mis-statement or a wicked attempt to mis-
lead the people.
♦
The Standard of Living.
AT ... , ; , , .
JNo candidate gets through an election
campaign mentioning “the standard
oi living, and nine times out of ten he
represents it as something that mustn’t be
interfered with, no matter what else happens,
JNow it is quite a good thing to want to
maintain the standard of living and even
to raise it. But all the talking that poli-
ticians can do will not maintain and all
the laws that all the politicians can pass
will not maintain it, either. They may
raise it temporarily by heavy public bor-
n o o't I ma°nta°n m it°‘ her d<iViCe; b “‘ ‘ hey
Our black brothers who wandered over
this continent fixed their own standard of
living. It was deplorably low because their
output was deplorablv low; and when their
output was lower than usual because of
drought or other drab circumstance, their
standard of living was lower than usual
All the corroborees of which the tribes were
capable couldn’t and didn’t help matters
at all. All that could help was the killing
of more kangaroos or snakes or the digging
of more roots. '
Things are a little more complicated to-
day; but the basic fact remains the same:
production must govern the standard of
living. It is true that in some cases, the
distribution is at fault; if it is, it should be
remedied. But the tendency is not to talk
that way at all. The pretty common idea
nowadays is to say that so much must be
paid and no more than so many hours must
be worked without any regard to whether
the output will justify those wages or those
hours. We began, timidly, with what was
called a living wage. It was not in the
beginning intended to give it any general
application. Here, it was said, are some
men who because of old age or infirmity or
from some other cause cannot produce
enough to keep them decently. We must
do something for them.” That was reason-
able, it meant that otheis must get a little
less than they were entitled to according to
the cold law of economics m order that
others might get a little more. It was
a compromise between economics and
humanity.
But that position was soon left behind.
The ]ivin for the sub-normal was
overwhelmed by the basic wage for the per-
.fectiy normal. And from that moment our
real troubles b
„
• J he aw °f economics—which, after all,
i s mere Y law that two and two make
four and only four—will not be denied. It
1S evincible, unalterable. We can get around
f or a time. We can, as we have said,
borrow, eating to-morrow’s bread to-day;
but to-morrow we shall go hungry. Or we
can do xt by condemning a few to exist on
less than they are entitled to. We have
don . e that also; we have so pushed up costs
a S am st the man on the land, for instance,
that in thousands of cases—perhaps most
cases—he cannot get anything like what we
have decided is a living wage. But that
likewise brings its revenges; for presently
the men whom we have thus penalised throw
U P their holdings in despair, and, flocking
to the cities, add to the army of unem-
ployed—an army which is admittedly larger
now than ever it was before in the history
of our country.
The system into which we have drifted
jg all wrong. We have as much need of
conciliation and arbitration as ever we had.
But its aim must be twofold—first, to in-
crease production; second, to equitably
distribute the fruits. To say that such-and-
such shall be the worker’s portion without
regard to the harvest is so childish that we
shall be ashamed presently that we ever
thought it possible.
T . „ m
Sh »l>-
D “ E Bulletin-The more of these absurd
““f*” ,? see “°. r ? 1 ™ convinced
that P“ri‘ament should choose its Ministers
as does its Speaker, by open vote on the
floor of the House. This elective principle
has been m operation in Switzerland for
nearly a hundred years, and no voter of that
enlightened and democratic country ever
finds fault Wlth xt - Though there is still
much spirited debate m the Swiss Par-
bament, politics have ceased to be a mere
scramble for possession of the Treasury
bench.
The choosing of a Cabinet by one man
or by a secret party meeting is an utterly
undemocratic practice. Collective Cabinet
responsibility is another absurdity that the
adoption of the elective system would knock
on the head. Each Minister would be
responsible only for the administration of
his own department. If unsatisfactory he
could be replaced without creating a politi-
cal crisis or dragging capable colleagues
with him.
So little has party feeling come to count
in the little republic that when Ministers
are being chosen by Parliament a good man
is frequently returned time and again to
office by the votes of political opponents
This is not altogether a matter of patriot-
ism. A member strengthens his own posi-
tion before his electors by giving them
capable Almisters, and correspondingly
weakens it if he votes for an incompetent
Why, Australians, with their politics
everywhere degraded to a rough-and-tumbie
fight for place and power, have not clam-
ored for this commonsense reform is a
mystery to me. Now that extravagant
and time-serving Governments have brought
bad times upon us, the public will, it is
to be hoped, take the matter up in good
earnest. —Yours, J. M. Fowler.
* ___
Pernicious Literature.
Urged thereto by a deputation, N.S.W.
Chief Secretary Chaffey has announced that
he is in favor of inviting the police force of
the State to co-operate in suppressing the
“poisonous and pernicious literature in our
midst.”
Apart from the fact that the present force
is not nearly adequate to deal with mass
picketing, cocaine-running, sly grog-selling
and the general rise in the curve of violent
crimes, and that to convert it into a censor
of literature and art, pornographic and
otherwise, is only to add to its perplexities,
how is a standard interpretation of what
constitutes “poisonous and pernicious litera-
ture” to be arrived at? An immortal classic
or a- great contribution to science may easily
have pernicious effect On the wrong type of
mind, yet it will hardly be argued that such
works should be placed on the Index. Yet,
while only a few can have access to these
and to frankly pornographic fiction and art,
so called, the general public, old and young,
is exposed by custom to other publications
which, under the guise of daily newspapers,
frankly cater to the libido of anyone with a
penny to spend on the latest street-hawked
horror.
Disgusting Divorce Court details jostle
in the columns of these journals with
meticulous accounts of robberies and
murders, the supposed perpetrators of which
are referred to by fantastic titles all too
obviously drawn from the bright lexicon of
the Hollywood captioneer. Ridiculous
“reconstructions” of crimes which have yet
to be legally proved show cheek-by-j owl
with portraits of scantily-garbed females
presented as bathing beauties or ballerinas
to some notorious picture-show or another.
All this, published as it is in a dread-
ful jargon of modern back-street American-
ese, cannot but have a pernicious effect
on the younger generation of Australians.
Indeed, the language of our streets and the
general tendency of the moronic mass of the
population to glorify the criminal shows
that this is the case already. Here is an
influence far more evil nationally than that
of a hundred Cabells or Lawrences, or all
the obscene art that ever came out of the
Old World.
♦
Brotherhood in Practice.
From H. R. Bonsfield, of Durban, Natal,
S’Africa:—
The threat of black domination is per-
plexing the minds of many thinking men iu
Africa to-day, and it was a speech in an
Australian paper on the subject of racial
bar that prompted me to have my brief say
in the matter. The speech was by Mr. J.
Kavanagh, organiser of the Sydney Labor
Council, and a report of it appeared in the
official Communist organ :■ —-
“The White Australia policy never had
any justification in the Labor movement. . . .
The products of cheap labor of the Orient
constitute a greater menace to the workers
of Australia than does the labor of the
Oriental worker resident in this country. . ..
The need of the moment is the breaking
down of racial barriers and the formation
of a world international of labor.”
It is a pity Mr. Kavanagh could not visit
South Africa (and Natal in particular) and
see the conditions of life of the white laborer
in his hopeless fight against colored and
Asiatic labor. There is no affiliation here,
only a hopeless struggle, in which the colored
man comes out on top. At the present day
we have many thousands of white unem-
ployed men starving and homeless. There is
no work for them; that is reserved for the
colored and Oriental races. Recently, in
order to relieve the distress, the Government
placed some 30,000 men on relief and rail-
way works at a wage of ss. a day. And
this in a land where meat costs Is. 3d. a
lb. and bread Bd. a loaf. A majority of the
men, too, are married. Yet on a lesser wage
the colored and coolie worker waxes fat in
his kennel.
Mr. Kavanagh would welcome the
Oriental and colored worker to Australia.
I know of many cases in this city of Durban
where down-and-out whites, male and female,
are living in community with natives and
Asiatics. This is the thin end of the wedge
of absorption into the colored fold, and as
time goes on and circumstances keep these
unfortunates in contact with color, the bar-
rier will be broken down all right.
The same conditions of preference for
colored labor obtain in the mercantile and
commercial world. Orientals and blacks are
in every branch —tailoring, bookbinding,
printing, cabinet-making; colored and Asiatic
clerks in offices, warehouses, legal offices, in
every profession. And, sad to relate, white
girl typists and clerks iu hourly contact with
sleek Parsees and Mohammedan employers.
And what will be the end? With the
ever-increasing prosperity of the colored and
Oriental races, and the ever-increasing
poverty of the white race, we are bound to
go under. It will be a natural outcome of
the law of economics.
In the beginning a few hundred coolie
Asiatic laborers were imported to work on
sugar plantations in Natal. They were soon
followed by Arab and Mohammedan traders ;
and to-day two-thirds of the commerce of
Natal is in their hands. Out of a population of
about 300,000 in Natal, Asiatics number
200,000. As the majority of Indians are
polygamous, the birth-rate is enormous.
Practically the whole of the land in the
coastal area is in their hands. And in the
Transvaal they are spreading like a plague
of locusts.
When we add to this total 6,000,000
Kaffirs domiciled in South Africa, how is
the white race to survive?
♦
The Importance of Spending Better.
Much industrial discontent is merely re-
flected domestic discontent arising from the
wife’s inability to use her husband’s wage
effectively. Nothing tends to irritate a
wage-earner so much as the nagging thought
that his continual grind is only to keep pace
with his wife’s spending needs; and if he
does not voice his rankling disapproval
in the hotel bar or on the racecourse,
it finds an outlet in the union room,
where harmonious echoes give it volume
and weld it into something quite different.
If somebody went on with Mrs.
Worker’s domestic education it would do
more to abolish social discord and collective
holdups of industry than all the arbitration
laws Billy Hughes ever either cursed or
blessed.


: : >
RES
RED, WHITE and BLUE
WHISKY
Gaelic Special Reserve
DEARER BUT BETTER
ORME, KEIGWIN & CO., LTD.
269-271 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN AGENTS: JAMES HENTY & CO., 499 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: B. SEPPELT & SONS, LTD., 444 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
qP^&LIq
POLITICAL
POINTS
Littleton Groom, who fitted into eight port-
folios, after a fashion, before he was de-
posited in the
Speaker’s chair
and drapery, is
finding little favor
with his Darling
Downs constituents
since he took the
line of inaction
that led to Bruce-
I’age’s defeat, and
a son of the late
Premier Morgan
has been “endorsed”
in liis stead. The
explanation offered
is that Groom fol-
lowed British pre-
cedent, but it is
more important
that he disregarded
Australian prece-
dent, with which he
is much better ac-
quainted than with
the article used in
London. Hughes’s
majority of one
Littleton Groom
as Low saw him.
lasted for one minute only. It vanished
when Bayley left the chaii', and Groom
retook possession. The Welshman had waited
years for that minute.
Federal arbitration, piled on top of, and
hopelessly mixed up with, State arbitration
has been a failure and an unmitigated dis-
aster. It could hardly be otherwise unless
the Commonwealth had its own capable
police force to scatter “mass pickets,” and
had powers of interference in local com-
motions which the Constitution doesn’t give
it. Hughes, when he was still in office,
denounced the system as a dud and a
calamity. The fact that he says the exact
opposite when he badly wants to get his
successor out of office only proves that he
is Hughes, and that there is no mistake in
the matter of identity.
Hughes had a Nationalist majority of
15,998 in North Sydney last election day.
This suggests nothing except that North Syd-
ney may be a cold place if the Nationalist
majority goes mostly to somebody else.
Hughes once had a Labor majority of 10,500
in West Sydney, but found it desirable to
leave. Then he had a Nationalist majority
of 4200 in Bendigo, but its prompt reduction
to 1600 suggested another removal, and he
was presented with the safe Nationalist seat
of North Sydney in 1922. No party wants
to supply him with a safe seat now, so
his position is one of novel lonesomeness.
The Sculiidores are dragging Joel Moses
Gabb from the comparative obscurity of a
minor union bil-
let into the
fierce light that
beats upon a
Federal candi-
date. Gabb it
was who ousted
Paddy Glynn
from Ang a s
(S.A.) in 1919,
and he held the
seat against ex-
Minister George
Ritchie three
years later. But
Walter Parsons
beat him in
1925, and at the
last election he
was a n on-
starter. Gabb.
very appropri-
ately, is secre-
ta r y to the
Adelaide gas-
men, and the
gasmen have
given him a
month’s leave to
Moses Gabb.
go gassing in Angas again. There is a
remote chance that he may go on to Can-
berra, but the gasmen expect him back.
The Country party won Indi (Vic.) by
6011 in 1919, 5868 i'n '22 and 5008 in ’25.
There was no House of Reps, contest last
year, Qook having been too late with his
nomination-paper, but Senate voting in the
division was 19,131 for the Nat.-Cocky
two (Lawson and Elliott) and 15,538 for
the Labor three (Barnes, Biakey and Find-
ley). Yet to make their ballot-papers for-
mal .Nat-Cocky* supporters had been obliged
to give their third votes to Labor, their own
third man (Forsyth) having died. If the
Agrarians don’t fool it away by squabbling,
Scullin’s party will lose that seat.
S. Aus. Labor is very nervous about the
situation in Boothby. The seat was National-
ist for 11 years before Jack Price wrested
it from the amiable Duncan-Hughes last
year, and then his majority was a mere 84
in a poll of 41,248, while the Labor three
were 231S behind on ticket voting for the
Senate—two Independents got another 1726.
And the Nationalist candidate this time is
W. F. J. McCann, who was a brilliant bat-
talion commander in France and has been
chairman of the State’s Diggers’ League,
as well as representative of the Aussies at
the Servicemen’s Conference in London.
At Brunswick (Vic.) the other day Arch-
bishop Mannix as good as said he wasn’t
voting for the Bruce Government, and, let-
ting fly with the other barrel, he suggested
that the McPhairson Ministry was being
overtaken by creeping paralysis. Bruce did
not reply, but McPhairson did. “I have
great respect for the Archbishop’s opinions
on religious matters,” he retorted rather
neatly.
The N.S.W. Upper House reform scheme
of the Bavinshaws is dubious. There is
to be a Council of 60 members, half or a
third retiring every three years, so that the
tenure will be either six years or nine.
The two Houses are to meet in a joint sitting
to fill vacancies. The Irish Free State has
a similar method, but in that case there are
stipulations about the character of candidates
who are allowed to stand. Though the part-
nominee system has its merits, if all the
members have to be chosen in the one way
it would be better to elect this House just as
the Senators are elected. If the Uppers went
for re-election in relays it would avoid the
awkwardness of having 60 successful and 260
unsuccessful candidates on the ballot-paper
at once.
A trans-Pacific writer fairly claims that
“America has worked out a system which
will raise the level of living for all classes
far above the most optimistic hope of the
socialists by sharing increasing income
with the workers in the form of increasing
wages, . and with the public by reducing
prices in order to develop new purchasers.”
This is infinitely more worthy of emulation
in Australia than American morals and
manners, as shown in the movies and talkies,
and American methods of intimidating pub-
lic men, as shown in the agitation against
the taxes on amusements; hut the ideal is
clearly impossible of attainment while in-
dustry is stifled by excessive regulation—
while Australia, in short, has “the two
rival shops.”
Labor-socialism cuts a sorry figure in
clamoring for the retention of Federal arbi-
tration when for the past six months it has
supported a strike against a Federal arbi-
tration award. The public has a short
memory, but it cannot have forgotten the
resolution in which Federal Labor congratu-
lated the timber-workers on their “splendid”
resistance to national authority, nor can
it have forgotten the burning of the Judge’s
effigy and the Court’s ballot-papers and the
long succession of brutal assaults. This
mob rising against Federal arbitration was
admitted weeks ago to have cost £205,000
in union levies and subscriptions. One
grotesque result is that F'ederal Labor is
short of funds for its effort to preserve the
institution which the mob, with its warm
approval, has been trying to pull down.
M. L. F. Jarvie, Nationalist M.L.A. for
Ashfield (N.S.W.), has resigned and is
presently to face his constituents. A Royal
Commissioner declared him guilty (though
a jury found him guiltless) of being con-
cerned in the offer of a bribe to the late
Chief Sec. Bruntnell, and the Government
commenced proceedings for his expulsion.
Jarvie explained that he had withheld his
resignation until Parliament met so that he
could get his statement of the case, together
with a report of the Judge’s summing-up, on
the records. Slang seized the opportunity to
give a melodramatic exhibition of outraged
virtue, but, remembering his dead silence
when two of his own followers were con-
demned by Royal Commissioners, members
only grinned.
A Queensland Labor Assemblyman got into
the news the other day by bringing one of
Moore’s election posters into the House and
holding forth with its subject-matter as his
text. Ordered by the Speaker to remove the
thing he refused, claiming it was his “notes,”
and that standing orders permitted him to
speak from notes. The claim was disallowed,
and as the ingenious one persisted he was
shown the door, as also were three vociferous
supporters.
Native Minister Ngata has given the
Maoriland Parliament some gentle advice
concerning the handling of the Samoans.
To the Maori mind, he said, the position was
“very funny”; Samoan chiefs were clapped
info gaol in Auckland for failing to pay
£2 in rates, whereas Maori landowners who
owned 10 to 20 times as much to the
Government went free. Maoriland had put
its wards “off-side” over technicalities they
didn’t understand, and it would have to
get them “on-side.” “Let the Samoan think
he is running his country,” the wise man
from Waiomatatini concluded, “but send
over some tactful fellow who will run him
without his knowing it.”
There is a certain fragrance about the
term “appeal to the people” similar to that
which surrounds “that blessed word Mesopo-
tamia,” but the proposal that the Maritime
Industries Bill should be the subject of a
referendum was an inferior sort of joke,
whether concocted in impishness or in ignor-
ance. A general referendum is specifically
authorised in the case of a proposed amend-
ment of the Constitution, and a local referen-
dum is prescribed in case it is intended “to
increase, diminish or otherwise alter the
limits of a State.” But there is no allowance
for a referendum on the question whether
the conciliation and arbitration authority,
or any other authority in the Constitution,
shall be exercised, or to what extent it shall
be exercised.
John Quick’s term as Deputy President of
the Federal Arbitration Court has been ex-
tended once more so that he may “finalise”
a lot of railway cases. He has been dealing
with cases of this sort (and no other) for
years, and there are so many of them that
Judge Brockman has been called in to help.
Neither of these gentlemen is a railway
expert; both are lawyers, and John Quick is
77 years of age. The railways concerned
John Quick.
are State enterprises, and their losses foi*
four years have averaged six millions a year.
Hitherto the awards issued by these Federal
officials have virtually been orders to the
State taxpayers to find more tax-revenue,
but in the position which has now been
reached rises for some railwaymen mean the
sack for others. This is surely the craziest
branch of the Federal arbitration business.
At the beginning of the N.S.W. session
Opposition-leader Lang spent four angry
hours in moving a vote of censure, chiefly
about coal. He proposed :
That the export of coal should be given up as
a bad job, and that some thousands more miners
should be employed in getting out the reduced
quantity of coal.
Increase of inter-State transport and the building
up of a mercantile marine. (The new ships built in
N.S.W. during 1926-27 were two wooden cockle-
shells, 15 tons in all.)
Intensive development of secondary industries.
(Factory employment has also begun to show a
decline, probably because of child endowment and
other frills, and if Lang can turn the tide with his
mouth, details are badly wanted.)
No reduction of wages.
And this took the embittered estate-agent a
whole shift of four hours.
H. E. Brookes, the Commonwealth Trade
Commissioner in U.S.A., introduced himself
to Uncle Sam in this fashion: —
The United States is Australia’s model. We study
everything you do and endeavor to imitate you to
the best advantage. We want to be like America.
Of course, when one is laying it on with
a trowel one can’t spread it too thick, but
isn’t it time even Trade Commissioners gave
Australia credit for having a soul of its
own?
Tas. Labor has raised the cry that Small
Sister has been treated shabbily by the
J. A. Guy has hopes.
Federal family
led by Page, the
wicked uncle of
the story; and
ex - Premier
Lyons is exploit-
ing it for what
it is worth in
Wilmot. Also
Guy, who was
his Chief Sec.,
thinks he can
shift Jackson
in Bass. At
last election
Jackson’s majo-
rity over his
Labor opponent
(Tom Wilson, a
Victorian rail-
wayman, for-
merly of Tas.)
was 1254 in a
poll of 20,218 —
nothing to write
home about.
Atkinson had a
majority of 1645
in a poll of
17,983, but his
opponents were Independents. Labor is
giving Franklin a miss, and will support
McWilliams. It holds only one Tas. seat,
Denison, and that precariously—Culley was
only 128 to the good in a poll of 19,928.
South Aus., the only State which has
not abolished the first-past-the-post system of
deciding elections, is now scrapping it in
favor of preferential voting, the marking of
preferences to be obligatory as regards twice
the number of candidates to be elected pip
one. Two- and three-member electorates will
be retained, but there is to be a revision of
boundaries, with a possible reduction ot
members, before the general election next
year. Butler confided to a deputation that
he had been a supporter of proportional
representation until he had studied the
working of that pretentious fraud in N. S.
Wales.
A new chapter in the history of land
settlement in Maoriland will be written if
a measure introduced by the Ward Govern-
ment is passed. A Development Board is to
be set up to drain, reclaim, road, fence and
grass undeveloped Crown lands and even
erect buildings, so that new settlers may
start off with the pioneer work accomplished.
Government acquisition of farm-land will be
placed on the same basis as the resumption
of land for public works. The provision that
a landowner may set two values on his
land —one for taxation purposes and one for
sale —is to disappear, and there are to be
drastic precautions against dummying.
In 1926 a Vic. Nationalist Government
sent two detectives, Dampard and Piggott,
abroad to study the latest methods of crime
detection and traffic control. Chief-Sec.
Argyle justified the expenditure on the
ground that the officers would in the ordi-
nary course of things be placed in charge of
their departments, when the information
they had acquired would be of immense
benefit. There is still plenty of crime in
Melbourne and the traffic remains in a
’‘devil of a knot. Nevertheless, the Govern-
ment has just sanctioned the transfer of
Piggott to the licensing branch at Bendigo!
The dozen superb drawings which Norman
Lindsay did to illustrate “The Quarter-
master” have been reproduced in two-tone
ink on art paper, and are now on sale at The
Bulletin’s chief office, Sydney, and at all
branch offices. The complete set of one
dozen drawings costs only 25., and to put
country subscribers on the same footing as
those of the cities, the set will be sen! post-
free from the head office to any address in
Australasia.
SOLD!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We pressed twenty-five thou, on the Little
Digger when he and Labor waged war
to the knife,
Enough to put a chap, you’d figure, on Easy-
street for the rest of his life.
Our hearts went out to the midget warrior,
dubbed traitor, turncoat, apostate, rat;
Now we are wiser men and sorrier, who
to line his pockets sent round the hat.
We thought we were paying him pretty
handsome for throwing in with ours
his lot
With a wad as big as a prince’s ransom.
And all for what?
We forgave the hand that our cheeks had
smitten of old, when that wild, admiring
roar
Arose to tell he was teaching Britain the
proper way to win the war.
We glowed with pride in our spokesman
sturdy at high Versailles, ten years ago,
Who tackled Wilson in warfare wordy and
wouldn’t be bullied by Clemenceau.
We thought he had done with his comrades
olden, we reckoned his evil days forgot,
So we fell on his neck with a guerdon golden.
And all for what?
The hat went round with a goodwill hearty—
we dragged the boodle in with a rake—
For him who had rent in twain a party and
spat on it for his country’s sake.
With the stuff that talks (and so oft con-
vinces), incog, but nobly, we did our
part,
We squatter kings and we merchant princes,
we Midases of the mine and mart.
How gladly into the fold we drew him ! What
a glorious greeting it was he got!
What a thumping packet we handed to him!
And all for what?
Merely to see him a leader stabbing in the
back, as others he stabbed before,
To watch him posture as chestnut-grabbing
catspaw for Scullin and Theodore.
He’s diddled and doublecrossed us—hang
him ! His is the snake’s ingratitude
That turned on his rescuer to fang him,
revived with warmth and refreshed with
food.
We made him our idol and sang his praises.
Into his ready hands we shot
Twenty-five thousand —blithering blazes !
And all for what?
214 GEORGE-STREET.
A. HAYWARD.


Poverty
Point
THE DILEMMA.
THE LITTLE CHAP: “Mum, it’s terribly upsetting having two dads. I wish you’d make up your mind which one I’ve got to obey.”
“C raiser”: Although I know of no Digger
who is engaged on writing an Australian
“Journey’s End” (B. 11/9/’29), I know
of one writer who is so employed. Inspired
by the Melbourne performance, C. J. Dennis,
author of “The Sentimental Bloke,” is pre-
paring to demonstrate that Australia will be
There.
“Gloucestrian”: The three choirs which,
in festival assembled (with Worcester as
mouthpiece), banned Florence Austral for
having heen mentioned in divorce proceed-
ings are those of the cathedrals of
Gloucester, Worcester and Hereford, and the.
festival rotates through the three triennially.
An artist has to pass the censorship of the
three dioceses. Worcester, a manufacturing
centre, and Gloucester, a port, might not bo
strait-laced, but Hereford, rural and set
down m the shires, would be morally rigid.
The festival is one of the annual musical
events of the west of England and several
notable artists have received through it the
kick-off that has started them on the road
to fame: Clara Butt is one. Soloists are
professionals, but choirs are recruited locally
and attract voices from Puseyites to Cala-
thumpians. The festival has served to in-
troduce composers as well as artists, Elgar
among them.
S.T.S.”: The limitations of the stage
were never brought home more clearly than
in Draeula.” It is the most awful book in
my acquaintance; anyone who ever read it
must have _ been glad to forget the worst
or it. Seeing it in stage form brings dis-
illusion Nobody’s fault. The thing must
be so. Draeula was a fiend in the book; now
he is Ashton Jarry, acting brilliantly. The
teeth-marks on the throat were there; now
they are greasepaint at most. Then, any-
thing might happen ; now, you can be sure
of a “happy” ending. A willing imagination
will always provide a better background for
horrors than can be produced by the “pro-
perties” of any theatre whatsoever.
“A Major”: The inclusion in a recent
Maoriland musical competition of a class for
“vocal solo —New Zealand composer,” started
a search for the rare bird. Attempts were
made to ring in Alfred H'ill, George Clutsam
and Charles Willeby, but they failed. Hill
was born in Melbourne, Clutsam in Sydney
and Willeby in Paris. Of the three H'ill has
the best claim, since he drew so much of his
inspiration from Maori sources. Willeby, who
lived in M.L. as a child and later as a
young man, wrote many of his most popular
songs in the Dominion, and Clutsam’s earlier
compositions were scored in the land of the
fern, but neither’s work shows a trace of
its topographical origin.
“L. de R.” : An American Judge was called
upon to decide a knotty point recently. Helen
Hayes, the movie star, had been engaged for
a talkie. The terms of the contract were
that she and her company could only be
dismissed without more compensation than a
fortnight’s pay if an act of God inter-
rupted the enterprise. When .Miss Hayes
informed the producer that she was about
to have a child he promptly threw the blame
on the Deity and sacked everybody. The
Court decided against the producer. If the
jury had been composed of Australian
aboriginals they would have sided with him.
“Cauboy” : If there is a Home for Aged
and Infirm Plays and “Charley’s Aunt” ever
qualifies for admission to the institution, a
kindly, white-haired gentleman will be ob-
served on Sundays leaving flowers and other
little luxuries to lighten the declining years
of the dear old creature. The white-haired
gentleman will be Frank Neil. It was in
August, 1925, that that prosperous entre-
preneur, after a disastrous run of modern
dramas, turned in desperation to Brandon
Thomas’s antique masterpiece and ended his
season at Melbourne Palace in a blaze of
glory. To-day he is as important in the
theatrical life of Melbourne as the Firm. At
least, he liqs the same number of shows
running.
“L.H.P.”: Bert Royle, who passed on in
Maoriland recently, played with Bland Holt
and was in the Firm’s big production of
“Round the World in 80 Days,” but he was
best known as g panto, writer. He wrote
Rignold’s last panto. (1894-95) for Sydney
Her Majesty’s, and later the out-of-the-
common “Djin Djin,” on a Japanese theme,
and “Matsa,” an Egyptian affair. “Aus-
tralis,” founded on our own land, was a com-
parative failure. Intlie ’nineties he was sent
to represent J.C.W. with the Pollards, and
for that troupe wrote “Saucy Sue,” an opera-
tic version of Jerrold’s “Black-eyed Susan.”
After that he was installed in a cushie job
as permanent rep. for the Firm in Maori-
land, and held it until his death.
“Bill O’C.” (Lond.) : Galsworthy’s latest,
“Exiled,” must be numbered with the dram-
atic; very dead, despite the puffs of the
critics, one of whom described it as “the
soul of England made articulate.” It isn’t.
It is the essence of Galsworthy made futile.
He assembles a number of his stock charac-
ters —the ruined aristocrat, the nouveau
riche mineowner, and the crowd of striking
and embittered miners—but he gets them no-
where. His penchant for suggesting himself
as champion of the under-dog does not help
that animal in any way, for he leaves the
combatants as he found them —snarling and
snapping. An altruistic photographer, who is
clearly a sublimated Galsworthy, wanders
through the piece radiating benevolence and
advice, but doesn’t help the plot, He merely
goes off with the impoverished aristocrat to
hunt big game in Africa, which is the “Exile”
according to the accepted English notion.
The play has most of the weaknesses that
distress producers—no climax, no “painty”
character who can be starred like H'orn-
blower in “The Skin Game” or Levis in
“Loyalties,” and, worst of all, no feminine
interest worth a cuss. After a month’s trial
it has been withdrawn in favor of a revival
of “The Skin Game”; nevertheless an opti-
mistic producer has gone to New York to
arrange for its production there, though that
is probably a matter of pre-arranged contract.
“Lysander”: Among the surprises of the
talkies is Conrad Nagel, who, despite his
un-Anglo-Saxon name and the fact that he
is Yankee, speaks what John Dailey has
classified as the best stage-English— i.e., Ox-
ford humanised and set to prose-music—and
it rings with the right English culture. Yet
other 100-per-cent. Amurricans speak on the
film as though through a mouthful of plum-
stones and boiling tea —no doubt the origin
of the classic national epigram, “You’ve said
a mouthful, bo !”
“Newtown”: Add to the brief list of real
negro Othellos one Coalhirst, who handed
the part in a one-night-only production at
the old Queen’s, in York-street, Sydney, early
in the ’eighties. J. P. West was lago.
“Dred—a Tale of the Great Dismal Swamp,”
was another one-night presentation by the
same company.
“L.H.P.”: Recent, production of the Eng-
lish opera “Hugh the Drover” recalls other
national plays that Australia has sampled. I
have heard Italian opera often enough,
Ristori in Italian drama and German opera
at Sydney Royal in 1907. Some of the
operas in the first Melba season were given
in French, and so, of course, were the
divine Sarah’s dramas, whilst earlier there
was Tessero’s French comedy company at
the old Sydney Gaiety. To cap all I heard
Chinese opera at the Protestant Hall, Syd-
ney, in August of 1893. It was a weird
show —the noise of the band still lingers in
my ears.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: A million or so young
men who are now old sang the songs of
Frank E. Weatherly in drawing-rooms
where they hoped to make an impression upon
some girl or other. Although he was SI
years of age when he died the other day and
had not presented anything new for ages,
some of his productions still live and are
likely to stay. There is a verve and swing in
“Nancy Lee,” “The Deathless Army,” “The
Old Brigade” and “They All Love Jack”
which places them beyond changing song-
fashions. In their time the two most popu-
lar songs Weatherly wrote were “The Holy
City” and “Darby and Joan.” He made a
fortune out of his gift.
“Feng-Shui” : One interesting consequence
of the landslide to the talkies is that non
English-speaking countries are seizing the
opportunity to snatch the local monopoly of
the screen from Hollywood. Companies are
being formed in India, Hindustani being suf-
ficiently widely understood to be a medium
for reaching the 150-odd races in that coun-
try. A Malay talkie company is being con-
sidered, Malay being the lingua franca of
60 million Javanese, Chinese, immigrant
Tamils and other nationalities scattered over
the East Indian archipelago. Several Chi-
nese concerns have been formed in China,
that country having a widely diffused
medium of communication in Southern and
Northern Mandarin. Mandarin, however,
like English, has too many hissing sibilants
to be completely successful as yet, the let-
ter “s” still being a nasty hurdle for the
microphone. One of the most important
results of the new development will be to
diffuse a sense of common nationality
amongst enormous populations of Asiatics
hitherto divided by a bewildering variety of
dialects.
“E.F.G.”: Re “Cine Ma” (B. 4/9/’29).
The Vatican is not the only religious body
that has realised the value of popular music
for presenting ecclesiastical verse. The
origin of many of the best German kirch-
enlieder (religious hymns) is found in
secular lyrics. Luther and his followers
adopted metrical form, simplicity of expres-
sion and airs from popular music of the
period, and to this is chiefly due the charm
which characterises the kirehenlied and dis-
tinguishes it from ail other similar produc-
tions.
“Iverys” : Australia does .her bit. Recently
a Melbourne paper published an “in memo-
riam” tribute to Valentino, in which he was
described as “Italy’s glorious son,” and a
Sydney firm possesses a typist who took the
decorative Rudolph’s demise so much to heart
than an astounded boss had to sanction two
days’ leave. The stars themselves, of course,
consider this world-wide homage their just
due. Gloria Swanson, in recent reminis-
cences, assures a long-suffering public that
she, in common with those of lesser breed,
has her worries. “Yes, I, with my money,
my title, my beautiful home, my children,
I, the most-envied woman in all the world!”
Truly the Hollywooden mind is void of
humor!
“Cine Ma” : John Van Druten, author of
“Young Woodley,” had some apposite
things to say to the Sexual Reform League
in London recently concerning the public
attitude to the theatre. He said that the
average theatregoer was like the old lady who
liked a nice love-story with no sex interest
in it. What was too shocking to be spoken
about seriously might be sung or jested
about. At the time “Young Woodley” was
playing in Melbourne, Clara Bow was star-
ring in a screen play on the same theme
of a pupil’s love for a teacher, the sexes,
however, being reversed. The movie was a
silly, salacious giggle. Nearly all the Mel-
bourne critics trounced the stage-play as
being indecent. The screen idiocy was never
challenged.
“R. Volt”: The radio drama has its
scenery just as has the stage-play. The
visible foreground of the stage-play is re-
inforced by a background of painted moons,
trees and what not, all aids to the emotions,
or meant to be such. In the radio drama
the background is invisible, but can be made
none the less potent. The low humming of
a couple of supers can give an astonishingly
sinister significance to the dialogue of the
principals in such a piece as “The Monkey’s
Claw,” and there is a whole palette of
mechanical noises available for every sort of
situation. Australian broadcasting studios
are only just beginning to nibble at the idea,
but in Europe it is being elevated to a
high level of artistry.
LOST IDENTITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘Get your hair cut and I’ll give you a job,’ the
manager told him. ‘The days of the long-locked
actor have gone.’ ” '
W lien beer was threepence for the pot
And haircuts twice the price,
Ilis locks the Thespian would not
Consent to sacrifice,
lie wore them long, till all men knew
Ills calling anywhere;
k°> doubly, the old legend grew,
“The actor lives on ’air.”
How customs change! The man who goes
With farce or light revue
Is clipped and trimmed—and oft his shows
Have got our hair off, too!
'' ma .y we sigh for days, I vow,
.When long locks were the rage.
It s hard to know an actor now—
And hardest on the stage !
N.S.W.
HAMFAT.


9
H
r
nr
o:
l
orwb
and better
__j__ *1
mmm
w
VOU still get twenty-three
1 COUNTRY LIFE Cigarettes
for 1/6 three more than the
usual number.
COUNTRY LIFE are still of the same
generous size and of the same peerless
quality as before. Try them to-day for a
better smoke. No cooler, purer, more
fragrant cigarettes are made, and you get
genuine value for your 1/6.
VIRGINIA CORJC TIPPED
CIGARETTES
Made at Raleigh Park—The Garden Faßory—
by W. D. & H. O. Wills (Aast.) Ltd.
0
f
/
/
> s
gr 3
r
Rif
rrrr
:Sr-
A Corner of
Raleigh Parle.


On every basis of comparison
I - . :
Sffi
M/VGffOmE
“MANGROVITE”
WATERPROOF LEATHER OR
RAWHIDE BELTING
proves its superiority—its remarkable efficiency under
the most difficult and gruelling conditions of service.
The ability of Mangrovite Belting to give BETTER
belting service is not due fo chance. Over 40 years’
experience is built into every belt. Cemented
throughout with waterproof cement, there are no
rivets or stitches in Mangrovite Belting. This pro-
cess gives 25 p.c. more value than belting manu-
factured under the old method. Impervious to wet
or damp conditions —smoother running—more durable
and more efficient in every way.
Backed by expert service.
Samples free to any address.
MANGROVITE BELTING, LTD.
Charles Ludowici, Managing Director,
49 YORK STREET (WYNYARD SQUARE), SYDNEY.
Spring racegoers will appreciate
the superiority of
BHMI
ROSS
Binoculars
British in every detail —reflecting that stamp
of excellence always associated with the best
British workmanship. Ross Binoculars are
the last word in scientific constructien —
giving clear cut definition, perfect luminosity, fine stereoscopic effect and extra wide field of
vision. A full range of Ross Field-Glasses is available at Fairfax and Roberts, at London
Catalogue prices. Call and inspect without obligation to purchase. Prices from £lO.
Illustration shows the Ross +7 Birmocular, which has won universal approval as a Field-Glass
for all round use.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
i Ex-Senator Josiah Symon, who will be
88 on September 27, is the doyen of the nine
surviving members of the Federal Conven-
tion of 1897-98, which framed the Common-
wealth Constitution. The others are Dr.
Cockburn and Paddy Glynn (S. Aus.), Joe
Carruthers (N.S.W.), Justice Isaacs (High
Court), Dr. Quick and Alex. Peacock (Vic.),
Elliott Lewis (Tas.) and Walter James
(W.A.). All of them except Glynn were
knighted.
Rev. Henry le Fanu, Coadjutor-Bishop of
Brisbane, will now have a full-time job wear-
ing the gaiters; he is to succeed the late
Archbishop Riley as supreme overlord of the
Westralian flock. Scion of an old Irish
family, Le Fanu was born at Dublin in 1870,
liis dad being Commissioner for Public Works
in Ireland. After Haileybury and Oxford,
he was ordained in 1894, and came to Bris-
bane 11 years later. A scholarly and courtly
cleric with a full appreciation of the social
side of his calling, he has proved himself an
administrator and organiser of outstanding
ability as well.
At the instance, of P. J. Mullaney, many
Vic. Parliamentarians and pressmen signed
a birthday greeting to Tom Hunt, of Kil-
more, when he turned 89. For 65 years
Hunt has been a newspaper proprietor (he
is still on deck editorially), and he was an
Asemblyman 80 years ago. Among the sub-
scribers to the salutation in verse were ex-
Premier Hogan, Dick Toutcher, Gilbert Wal-
lace, Slater, Prendergast, T. P. Hollowav,
Moynihan, Batten and J. P. Jones.
Edward Harold Davies, Director of Music
at the Elder Conservatorium, Adelaide, holds
one record for good and all. He was the
first student to secure the degree of Doctor
DR. HAROLD DAVIES.
of Music in Australia, and that was 27 years
ago. From Oswestry (Eng.), he belongs to
a family that thinks in crochets and quavers
—a brother is Sir Walford Davies, well-
known British composer.
John Longstaff is painting a portrait of
W. H. Griffiths (“Griff”), the sprightly old
man who sits at the entrance to Elizabeth
Bay House, Sydney, the former home of the
Macleays. Longstaff and Mclnnes have
studios in the historic mansion. Griffiths
is a brother-in-law of the late Sir Hubert
Ilerkomer, painter of “The Last Muster”
and other popular pictures.
An interesting study in contrasts was pre-
sented in the parish church of St. Helens
(Tas.) when the Rev. F. L’Oste, who has
left his hundredth year behind, officiated at
a baptismal ceremony. He had baptised the
infant's father and grandfather, who were
both present, and a previous member of the
third generation.
Kennedy (Q.) Federal electors, who re-
jected big Jim ftiordan, State secretary of
the A.W.U., in favor of solicitor Grosvenor
Francis, will have Jim’s brother Darby
putting the case to them this time; Darby
has resigned his State seat, Burke, which is
within the Kennedy electorate. Darby should
poll better than Jim, having a larger per-
sonal following,- but the massive Labor vote
that first won the seat for Charlie McDonald,
who died on the job, is gone from the stations
long ago, and shearing is nearly finished. It
will be a close thing, all the same.
For many years past the president of Syd-
ney’s Great Synagogue has been a member
of the Cohen family. George Judah Cohen,
his son Sam, Orwell
Phillips (who also
belongs) and Sam
again have held the
office; this year
Sam did not stand,
and Morris Sy-
monds becomes offi-
cial head of the
Jewish community.
Arriving in Sydney
with little more
than he stood up
in, Symonds has
made a fortune out
of furniture and in-
vestments. He is a
keen Zionist, and
has given £5000 to
the Hebrew Uni-
versity in Jeru-
salem.
WALTER
MARKS, the man
whose vote turned
the scale against
Bruce in the House
of Reps. Note
that he carries a
fiddle on him
shoulders; and
Bruce says that
the picture people-
call the tunes he
plays on it.
Dead in Adelaide, at 72. Arthur Crozier,
one of the many sons of John Crozier,
long ago an M.L.C. The Croziers were
among the first of the S. Ans. pastoralists
who tried their luck far up the Murray and
the Darling. They were always great sup-
porters of the horse, both in breeding and
racing. A nag of Arthur’s won the Good-
wood Handicap on the historic occasion when
it was run in Melbourne, the sport seeming
at the time to be dead in Adelaide. His
latter years were lived in Brighton (Vic.).
Alfred James Ewart, Professor of Botany
at Melb. University, whose claim for a separ-
ation on the ground of desertion was the
event of the week in Melbourne, will have a
heavy bill to meet as a result of his success-
ful action. Judge Wasley ruled that as there
was no misconduct the Prof, would have to
pay Mrs. Ewart’s costs as well as his own,
and as it was a long case the figure will
be round about £6OO. ’Sonah refused an
application for a guarantee as regards main-
tenance, stating that the scientist’s conduct
had been generous enough in the past to
be a warrant for the future. Ewart is a
Liverpool man who has been in Victoria for
just on 24 years; he was Government
Botanist for 16 years. He is 57; the lady
owns to 64.
The High Court has adjudged Mrs. Ives
the winner of Westralia’s most protracted
divorce case, the costs of which are reckoned
at £2500. The lady is a daughter of Nat
Harper, manager of the White Feather Main
Reef at Kanowna when Kanowna carried a
population of 20,000. and in later years a
shrewd investor in hoteL and station pro-
perty. Nat stood for the Senate in 1910
and subsequently became M.L.A. for a wheat-
and-slieep constituency, defeating ex-Premier
Walter James. A son, Harold, distinguished
himself in Palestine as a major in the 10th
Light Horse, only to be drowned off the
North Westralian coast—a blow overturned
the craft in which he was taking stores to
his coastal run.
Admiral of the Fleet Sir Iledworth M'eux,
dead in London, will be best remembered in
Australia as the Captain Lambton whose
battery of 4.7 naval guns, rushed into Lady-
smith from Durban at the last moment,
saved the town from capture by Joubert’s
forces. Later he assumed the name of Meux
in accordance with the terms of a will. H'e
passed from one high post to another until
he retired from the Portsmouth command
in 1916. The Admiral belonged to an ancient
Durham family, whose name is bound up
with fox-hunting and racing.
Commodore Geoffrey Blake, the new com-
mander of the Maoriland division of the R.N.
—-which means the cruisers Dunedin and
Diomede —was one of Jellicoe’s ypung men.
He was gunnery commander in the Iron
Duke at Jutland, and occupied the same posi-
tion aboard Beatty’s flagship at 'a, later stage
of the war. He has since been naval attache
at Washington and director of the Naval
Staff College. Mrs. Blake is a daughter of
Sir William Carr, the S’African mining
magnate.
At the opening of the Blaxland picture
gallery, so called because John Blaxland had
a home on the site in early-day Sydney,
many references were made to the part Johri
and Gregory Blaxland played in the pioneer-
ing of Australia. Blaxland—-then de Blax-
land—helped to pioneer England as well.
On the family mural tablet in the old Mars-
den church at Parramatta, it is recorded
that a John de Blaxland was a landed yeo-
man in eastern England before William the
Conqueror crossed the Channel. There can-
not be many families older; the Blaxlands
must challenge the more-or-less fabled con-
tinuity of the Ilereward Wakes.
Queensland claims the oldest citrus-grower
in the Commonwealth in W. Dart, and
one of the most substantial withal. He is
in his 94th year, and is still hearty. Dart
was one of the pioneers of the Montville
district.
The estate of Geoffrey Dufficld, late direc-
tor of the Commonwealth Observatory at
Canberra, has been sworn at £37,000. Science
did not bring him his money; his father,
Walter Duffield, was a leading South Aus.
pastoralist. Brother Ken, the composer,
still has the ancestral home on the sea-wall
at Glenelg, the only mansion there now
remaining in the hands of the family that
built it.
Dr. Gleeson was consecrated Coadjutor-
Bishop of Maitland (N.S.W.) the other
day in St. John’s, the oldest cathedral in
Australia. Born in Ireland in 1869, Dr.
Gleeson came to N. S. Wales at the age of 24,
and worked as a secular priest in the Mait-
land district. Ten years later he returned to
Ireland to enter the Redemptorist order;
in 1912 he was appointed its superior in
Australia. A few years back he established
houses of study at Galong (N.S.W.) and
Pennant Hills (N.S.W.), so doing away with
the need for European training of the Aus-
tralian Redemptorist student. Every mem-
ber of Dr. Gleeson’s family has followed
religious callings; even his father became a
Redemptorist priest.
Gima Deva, Y.C. (Village Constable),
has died at Hula, near Port Moresby, at the
reputed age of 90. He was one of the last
links between the Papua of to-day and that
of William Macgregor. Headman of a con-
siderable native town when Dr. Macgregor
(as he then was) arrived, Gima was the
first village constable to be appointed by the
far-seeing pro-consul/ His younger days
must have been wild, for he was an ingra-
tiating ruffian in middle life, but in the last
lap he repented of his sins, dying a senior
deacon. He had a great funeral. As the
local press put it aptly, “the body which
had been born in a neolithic village was
borne to the cemetery in a motor-lorry.”
Sir Gilbert Clayton, who died suddenly in
London on the morrow of his appointment
as High Commissioner to Iraq, was a dis-
tinguished soldier-diplomat, who, like most
of his kind, avoided advertisement. Born
in England in 1875, he began soldiering in
the Blue Marines, and saw service in the
Sudan and in the Great War, subsequent to
which he was Chief Secretary in Palestine.
As special envoy to Ibn el Saud, king of the
Hejaz and the Ne'jd, he did most important
work for Britain, clinching this by negotiat-
ing the Treaty of Jeddah in 1927.
Arthur Dudley Dobson, one of the few
surviving “Canterbury pilgrims,” celebrated
his 88th birthday at Christchurch (M.L.)
the other day. A Londoner born, Dobson
was brought to Fernland in boyhood, and
he became a civil engineer, like his father.
He did a lot of surveying and exploring in
Wlestland, discovering Arthur’s Pass, named
after him, through which runs the railway
that connects Christchurch and Hokitiki.
For many years he was city engineer of
Christchurch, and during a sojourn in Aus-
tralia in the early ’eighties he designed the
Warrnambool breakwater. Still a strong
and active man, he proposes to revisit Aus-
tralia next year.
No white man has seen more of the
wilder parts of the Mandated Territory than
Father Kirchbaum, who, with a lay brother
and a Malay teacher to help, has ruled a
Sepik River mission station for 15 years.
In search of converts Father Kirchbaum
has taken his pinnace up river far into the
headhunters’ country. One village, Tam-
banum, defied all his efforts for a decade.
Surrounded by tall pit-pit grass and heavily
stockaded, the village is over a mile long,
and is inhabited by an enterprising and
athletic tribe. But the old chief —as dignified
a savage as has ever taken a fellow-creature’s
top-piece—yielded at last.
Lord Rosebery, sometime Prime Minister
of Britain, who lived 34 years after relin-
quishing that exalted billet, left property
valued at nearly a million and a half. It
seems almost inconceivable nowadays that a
millionaire peer should ever have been selec-
ted to lead the Liberal Party, but Gladstone
chose Rosebery as his successor when the
mantle should really have fallen on Sir
William Harcourt. Rosebery was a man of
great and undisputed ability, a fine speaker
and a discerning historical writer, but poli-
tically he was handicapped by his wealth
and even more handicapped by his title. The
latter disability presses hard on even a Con-
servative nowadays, or Curzon would have
been Prime Minister before his career closed.
That remarkable old battler William
Rodier is still at it. Forty years ago, or
thereabouts, he began to cry in Australia’s
wilderness that it could get rid of rabbits,
just then becoming a pest, by killing the
ladies and preserving the gentlemen.' It was
as true of rats and sparrows as of rabbits,
he declared; but the idea of not killing a
rat or any other pest because it happened
to be a male got in the way of all the un-
deniably bright facts that Mr. Rodier was
able to produce. The “arrival” of Ramsay
MacDonald and Hail Columbia Hoover re-
minded him that he ought to tell them how
easily they could get rid of their rats; so
letters were written to both of v tlicm, and
copies, of course, have been scattered far
and wide.
Member of a real pioneering family was
Mrs. Edmund Webb, who died the other
day. She was born 94 years ago in the
homestead on a square mile granted to Lane,
her father, in recognition of his discovery
of the country round about Springfield
(N.S.W.). Her brothers got a Government
reward of £lOOO for their share in opening
up the Turon goldfields. Until she left for
Brisbane in search of warmth, the severe
winter having told on her, the old lady
had spent all her days in the district in
which she was born; and her first trip
away from it was her last.
ROBERT DOUGLAS BOYS, Chief Libra-
rian of the Melbourne Public Library,
who finds that Show-time and the days
following it are among the busiest in the
year. Hundreds of people call wanting
to look up authorities to settle argu-
ments which they have had with
neighbors any time within the twelve
months.
“Redcliffs”: George Ckaffey (B. 18/9/ ! 29)
founded Mildura, but his brother, W. 8.,
made it. George attempted too much ; Mil-
dura was a gigantic contract in itself without
Renmark and Werribee. He neglected Mil-
dura when it needed his closest attention;
fortunately W.B. arrived in time to pick up
the hoe where George had dropped it.
Australia’s greatest fruit-garden is the result.
Perhaps a twin statue would have been the
fairest way of recognising the great efforts
of the brothers.
The dozen superb drawings which Norman
Lindsay did to illustrate “The Quarter-
master” have been reproduced in two-tone
ink on art paper, and are now on sale at The
Bulletin’s chief office, Sydney, and at all
branch offices. The complete set of one
dozen drawings costs only 2s;, and to put
country subscribers on the same footing as
those of the cities, the set will be sent post-
free from the head office to any address in
Australasia.
THE FORTHRIGHT DEAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Dean Inge, in a vigorous attack on magic and
miracles, predicted that the advance of medical
psychology would make Christian Science, Lourdes,
and all the crew of spiritualists and occultists as
obsolete as astrologers and witches.”
Witches, ’tis true, no more we ban and burn,
And fewer tap upon the palmist’s door;
Yet still a competence the Hicksons earn
By pandering to superstitions hoar.
Although the older school may rate you
sore
Around the world your straight-flung phrases
ring,
Quack’ry and cant with sabre-cuts you
score—
A novel attribute in churchmen, Inge.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
THEATRICAL TERMS.—“UNDIESTUDYING.”
“Old Rocks”: I had met him before and
I have met him many times since; but the
picture of Billy Hughes as I saw him that
day 39 years' ago walking down George-
street-north is still vivid. It was just after
the great shearers’ strike and things had
did tliM? a straw hat with a
he always did then, a ■ , •
SnTromTts youth Upwards; around his
neck a not-too-clean handkerchief; a flannel
shirt • a pair of grubby white moleskin trou-
sers and a pair of brown canvas shoes. The
Int wL r KWP silk verv short lie
passed me with a word, and went on down
George-street till he came to the New York
Hotel, kept by an old customer of mine, Jack
Dunn. On the outside Jack had put up a
notice r “Wanted a pantry man.” Bill applied
to Mrs. Dunn and got the job. “Ten bob and
your keep and start to-morrow morning.”
Next door to the pub Reidel, the tailor, used
to have a shop, and when he left it Jack
Dunn took the premises and opened a cheap
dining-room. That was all right; but
Reidel’s floor was a foot higher than the New
York floor. Well, Bill’s first job was in the
pantry, washing up. Soon they began to get
busy. Mrs. Dunn, who used to help with
the waiting, was taking out cups of tea. The
fashion of the waiters was to carry three
cups in each hand. Mrs. Dunn was rushed.
She said, “Here, you carry out the tea like
this.” Bill was on his first job and wanted
to keep it. So he filled six cups and juggled
three in each hand. But as he stepped out
of the pantry he forgot about the step, and
the next moment the six cups of tea and Bill
slid along the floor amongst the wharf-laborers
at the tables. Seeing that he had broken about
3s. worth of cheap crockery, Mrs. Dunn
wanted to sack him ; but Jack pleaded for
him, and he was kept on for his week, though
he was taken from the pantry and put on to
scrub out the bedrooms. In about the third
room he found a half-sovereign. He took it
to the housekeeper, explained how he had
got it and asked her to give it to Mrs. Dunn.
“Mrs. Dunn didn’t sleep in that room,” the
housekeeper said. “If you’ve got auy sense,
you’ll keep it.” When he finished the week
he had 275. 3d. —wages, extras and tips.
After that he got one or two other pub
jobs—the last at the Langham as vegetable
cook. He annoys us, of course; but we must
admire the amazing courage and pertinacity
of the man.
* !|! *
“T.P.”: An experienced axeman, felling
a giant tree on a Forrest (Vic.) track,
found that it would crash on the road. He
waited patiently till both the local service
cars had passed and the lonely track was
perfectly clear before administering the few
final strokes. Then, all of a sudden, when
the gum was beginning to totter, a touring
car put in an unwelcome appearance. Rush-
ing out the bushman waved his axe and
yelled. “Stop ! Tree ! Death !” The women-
folk in the car screamed, but the square-
jawed chauffeur stepped on it, and went
straight for the frantic axeman, who dodged
just in time. A few seconds after the tree
had been passed the crash came, but the
car was far out of the danger zone. This
paragraph may be the first intimation to the
tourists that it wasn’t a Melbourne hold-
up man who tried to stop them.
* * * *
“Morita”: On Gallipoli “shorts” were part
of the Digger’s national costume, but the
makeshifts employed in France, where the
Q.M.’s Department didn’t stock the article,
were liable to be frowned on by authority.
On one occasion, in the midst of summer, our
C.O. relented, allowing troops to parade in
shorts and wear them in the vicinity of
billets. The extension of the privilege to the
villages, it was intimated, would depend on
the appearance of the rig-outs. They were
banned, even on parade, after the first week
of the experiment. It was impossible to
obtain khaki around Streezele, so the pre-
vailing fashion was black, often silk from
the dress of some refugee, put together by
the unit’s tailor. More artistic souls decked
themselves in shades of pinks and blues,
and many of the garments looked as though
they’d been constructed from a similar article
of feminine apparel, slightly altered and
with lacy flounces cut off. But the pair
that adorned the hero who was used as an
exhibit in the C.O.’s stormy lecture were
fashionably tailored out of a red striped
tablecloth!
* * * *
„ Nakh „. j am grieved to note the lack
of resource of Mr. Marr, our representative
a t Geneva, who missed his boat on his rush
home for the elections because the Swiss
stopped all 1s f ™ ® Sa< fvdne v
once travelled from Sydney to China with
a man whose entire belongings having been
labelled “China boat,” were placed on the
s.s. China, bound for Melbourne, instead
of the St. Albans, bound for Hong Kong,
Everybody took pity on his plight, and before
the end of the voyage he had acquired a
better wardrobe than he had packed in the
lost baggage. In fact, having one of those
average figures, he became the Beau Brum-
mel of the vessel. I believe he returned
everything, although his sartorial creditors
were scattered from Chungking to Zam-
boanga. A pair of trousers reached me in
Borneo.
i * * *
“Hayband”: Many people eat horseflesh
appreciatively in blissful ignorance. Recently
a Vic. greyhound trainer arrived in a N.S.W.
SHE’D LET SOMEBODY ELSE HAVE THE FIRST PICK.
“The best thing you can do is to go back to your husband, tell
him it was all your fault and say how sorry you are.”
“You think that’s the best thing? Well, now let’s come to the
next-best.”
country town to see if his dogs could bustle
the local animals. Soon after his advent a
goods locomotive ppt an untidy end to a
draught-horse, 'and the visitor secured a por-
tion for dog food. Next morning his pur-
chase was missing, and he was surprised to
see it, already partially dismembered, on the
hotel kitchen-table. He entered a protest,
and the cook apologetically explained that she
didn’t know the beef was his, and that she
had cut some to give two commercial travel-
lers an early breakfast! “I hope you don’t
mind,” she added. The trainer assured her
that she need not return it.
He * * *
“C.Q.”: Something of a feat in transporta-
tion was performed by the sons of two coun-
cillors of the Narracan (Vic.) shire recently.
A millhand at Erica was badly injured,
and the road being in no condition for
ambulances, the two young men put the
patient into a railway truck and pushed him
12 miles to the nearest doctor. The job
took them seven hours over the hilly country.
* * * *
“Escrita”: Canvassing an old cocky for
life assurance in the backblocks of Tassie
I but up all the well-worn arguments and
a few new ones in favor of a “little cover
on your life,” but without avail. Even
my suggestion that it would relieve his
wife of all anxiety about funeral expenses
left him unimpressed. “I’ve fixed up that,”
he said, and took me into the parlor, where
a plain wood coffin occupied a place
among the furniture. The proprietor sur-
veyed it complacently. “All she’s gotter do
when me time comes,” he told me, “is
screw her together, just git a coupler the
boys to help her plant me, and there yar.”
:*c ❖ : i :
“Arikiwai” : The M.L. ’quake was respon-
sible for at least one judicial separation —
the couple had just celebrated their silver
wedding, too. A week after Murchison was
evacuated the police called upon the
fugitive hotelkeepers to re-open their
premises. One nervy licensee flatly refused
to return to the fractured village; his wife,
built of sterner stuff, set the beer-pumps
going, only to be notified by the police that
she could neither conduct the. business nor
secure a transfer of the license unless
legally detached from her spouse. She applied
successfully for the separation order.
“Dinah Mite”: The citizens of Taihape
(M.L.) have been having the dangerous
properties of gelignite forcibly impressed on
them. A roadman using the butt end of his
shovel-handle to tamp a charge in a block
of stone was the first to provide the under-
taker with a job. A few days later a resident
loaded two charges in a tree-stump and
ignited the fuses. Following a report he
sauntered back, arriving just in time to get
some of the force of the second shot. He
was dead before the smoke had cleared. The
coroner, with the police and others, decided
to view the scene of the fatality, where it
was discovered that another stump was
charged ready for ignition. A match was
applied and the party retired out of range.
Impatient at the slow action of the fuse, one
individual returned to investigate. He left
in the ambulance, but there are hopes of his
recovery.
* * *
“Wakatu” : They go to strange extremes
in Yankeeland to achieve notoriety. The
latest issue of the New York telephone
directory discloses that the last place on the
list has fallen to R. Contarrona Zzyzz,
who has dispossessed one Zzyx of the
coveted distinction. A man who is prepared
to saddle himself with such a name deserves
what free advertising he gets. The A. A.
A. Aaron Charcoal Company seems to have
a stranglehold on first place. Sydney’s list is
led by an A.A.A. Automatic Petrol Saver;
but you get down to A. W. Aaron before you
strike flesh-and-bone. In Melbourne there
isn’t an Aaron, so Aarons is the winner, and
in the other capitals “Abattoirs” takes some
beating. For the honor of tailing the list
there isn’t much competition: in Sydney
there’s a Zyp Aerated Water Co., but other-
wise Zweck is an easy winner everywhere
except in Adelaide, where Zwar runs him
close, and in Melbourne, where Zwicker has
three entries.
* * * *
“Mr. Cato”: Arriving late one night at a
country hotel, I found a fierce altercation
being waged between the publican and a little
German .Tew, clad in pink-striped pyjamas,
on the subject of sleeping accommodation.
“I have slept in such a bed never before!”
howled the irate guest. Bung choked with
indignation. “I’ve never had any complaints
before,” he told the other angrily. “I get
the squatters here and all the big guns—why
the Governor him-
self has slept here.
There’s nothing
wrong with my
beds.” “Well, you
gome and see this
one,” challenged
the guest. I went
upstairs on the
heels of a small
crowd, determined'
that I would see
into the complaint
before I booked a
room. Bung pom-
melled the mat-
tress, and was
plainly puzzled.
Then he inspected
the edge and found
that it had been:
opened and roughly
sewn up. Tearing
it open he plunged
in his hand and
drew forth a pair
of trousers, with
braces attached.
While he held this
trophy aloft there
fell from one of the
pockets a thick
roll of banknotes.
How the opulent
“strides” came
there was a mys-
tery that may not
to this day have
been cleared up.
But if ever I saw
a man who looked
like kicking him-
self it was that
volatile little Ger-
man Jew in the pink pyjamas, as he stared
covetously at the hidden treasure on which
lie had been trying to sle.ep.
# * *
“Pensioner” : A disabled Digger, who has
been in hospital for nearly five years, said
to me on my last sojourn there: “Outside
the front gate there is a small notice-board
intimating that this is the Caulfield Military
Hospital, but how many persons except
relatives and friends ever think of paying
us a visit!” Perhaps only those few tire-
less saints who have never let up on the
job of cheering the war’s victims since the
arrival of the first hospital ship. And even
they are going to their reward one by one.
The public still devours books about the
horrors of war, even those translated from
the German, but it never thinks of the war-
caused sufferings close at hand which it
might do something to alleviate
* * * *
“Gouger”: Bligli, the explosive old naval
gentleman who long afterwards wms “de-
posed” from his Governor’s job in Sydney,
was one of the first navigators to find a
passage through the Great Barrier Reef-
In his open boat he heard the surf roaring
at midnight, and held off until morning,
when he found the narrow opening which
meant so much to him. Carrying on, he
presently got his first glimpse of Aus-
tralian land, and gave its name to Rest-
oration Island. The big rocky hill is
covered with bushy scrub right to the water s
edge, and has one miniature sandy beach.
Bligli’s crew nearly went mad with delight
at stepping on land again. They searched
the rocks for shellfish, and the light scrub
for berries and birds’ eggs. On the second
day a horde of hostile savages appeared
on the mainland, only a stone’s-throw away,
and shortened their stay. Quite recently
Queensland erected an automatic light on
Restoration Rock. I was one of the gang.
We camped on Bligh’s beach. History re-
peated itself a few days later w'hen natives
appeared on the mainland opposite. But
they weren’t hostile; they merely _ rowed
across and offered to trade their gins for
tobacco.
* * * *
“Punakaiki” : Some years ago most of the
sleepers at Ivalgoorlie (W.A.) were replaced
and the old ones were left stacked along
the line for weeks. One man, quite openly,
carried off a few to use for firewood. The
Railway Department took proceedings against
him, and although he offered to pay for the
sleepers and to buy as many more as they
would sell, the department would not hear
of it, and he was convicted and fined. About
a week after the case was heard a gang of
men was put on, each man getting 11s. Sd.
per day, and the sleepers were burnt in
their stacks. The job took three weeks and
must have cost over £4O. Is it any wonder
that the railways don’t pay?
ifc * ❖ *
“Copabella”: Geelong is another place
which can point to row's of homes as a
district w'ar-memorial (B. 18/9/’29). When
the memorial was being subscribed for
Diggers packed the planners’ meetings and
carried a condition that before anything
stonily monumental went up every local war-
widow should be placed in a home of he*
own. The result is that, before the tojjn
got its vast and ornate brick-and-cement pile-
its war-widows were looked after in the
most practical way. There is no. row Qi
tenements, no identifiable gift-houses, no
memorial brand. Each widow chose the ho no
she wanted ; it might be new, it might be tna
a mortgage was paid off a part-owned one. «
it might be an existing house available. a»-
there was a bit left over for maintenance a
sundries.
THE ROCK OF AGES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“It is reported that one of the bores at Roma has
struck metamorphic rock.”
There are many bores at Roma that induce
a state of coma, varied sometimes by a
mildly pleasing shock,
Followed later by prostration when you get
the information that “the drill has met
with metamorphic rock.”
It is then you find new traces on some old,
familiar faces on the Stock Exchange—
or, possibly, the Block—
For it leaves the brokers guessing when they
hoar the news distressing that the drill
has met with metamorphic rock!
The rock! The rock !
The metamorphic rock
That almost turns the toughest steel the
hardware merchants stock!
You may get through divers strata
That supply no end of data,
But it’s fierce to come on metamorphic
rock.
There are columns in the papers every morn-
ing on the capers and extensive ex-
plorations of the bores;
And the experts—learned creatures ! —report
favorable features from their readings
of the strata in the cores.
Their comparisons perplex, as they cite Per-
sia and Texas to show what Fortune’s
putting in your sock;
But you feel, though figures vary, you will
soon be millionairy, when —thud! the
drill hits metamorphic rock!
The rock ! The rock !
The flinty, glinty rock
That lies in wait so far below to baffle and
to mock!
The oil was almost spouting,
All was over, bar the shouting,
When —Hell! the drill’s in metamorphic
rock.
Long suspense is always killing, and several
years of drilling will cause the hottest
optimist to cool;
He gets fed-up with the tales of oil-sands and
of shales which lie above (or under-
neath) “the pool.”
While of “casing” and of “reaming” he has
long since finished dreaming as Sesames
that treasure shall unlock,
And, though domes be anticlinal, he sus-
t pects that things are final when he
learns the drill’s on metamorphic rock.
The rock! The rock !
The haunting, daunting rock
That turns your hopes to ashes and gives
your shares a knock.
Though no stranger to affliction
You unloose a malediction
When you read the drill’s in metamorphic
rock.
QUEENSLAND.
SHRDLU ETAOIN.


“Larrapinta”: A lot of British, capital has
been sunk in Australia on wild-cat enter-
prises, but the worst case I ever struck was
between Eucla and Israelite Bay (W.A.),
behind Eyre’s Sandpatch, 12 miles from the
coast. In 1892, travelling overland from
Port Augusta to the W.A. goldfields with
camels, we came to it at sunset —a 20-
roomed mansion, built of quarried stone, with
magnificent fittings. We camped on the
broad verandah that night, and next day
walked through the lofty, wainscotted rooms,
marvelling that such a place should have
been constructed out in the wilds. Later
we heard its history. An English syndicate
sent a man to Australia in the ’eighties to
select a site for a sheep-station, and of all
places he chose this spot, christening it
Madura. It was in keeping with the whole
thing that the “Government House” was
built first. Next came the stables, to house
the hacks and hunters of the future squatter
princes, enough being spent on them to pro-
vide a first-class station homestead even
DOCTOR: “Mrs. Naggs, we shall have to get a nurse for your husband, and you will
have to watch him very carefully.”
MRS NAGGS: “Too right I will, doctor. I know him.”
at present costs. Followed the interesting
discovery that there was no permanent
water on the place. Wells were sunk, tanks
blasted out of the rock, but it was only
throwing good money after bad, so the,
place was abandoned without having had
a hoof on it,
“Murkah”: The strength with which
round-the-world radio sigs! reach Maoriland
is the result of its position on the planet. It
is the almost exact antipodes of English and
the more powerful European stations. Waves
therefrom, charging around the world both
ways, reach M.L. stations from both s : des
at once (i.e., with double strength). This
was notable during British-Australian Beam
tests. Even when Sydney had heard only
a whisper, Awanui reported good signals.
Yet Australian stations enjoy better than
average reception. Sitting in Sydney radio
in the war days I often listened to distant
naval stations, almost within coo-ee of each
other, vainly endeavoring to communicate.
Every dot was audible in Sydney. Stalls
at oversea stations were astonished when
the messages they couldn’t get from each
other reached them by cable marked “Relayed
from Sydney Radio.” Later, they got used to
it. It is in transmitting efficiency that Aus-
tralian stations lag behind. When a parted
cable isolated the Speck some months ago,
two Melbourne radio amateurs had to be
called on to re-establish communication. Ihe
elaborate affairs at Melbourne and Hobart
couldn’t hear each other!
* * *
“Zabut”: When a subordinate officer dis-
approves of an order, I used to think the
only way of bringing matters to a head
was for the junior to register his objections
and then hand in his papers. My idea
was all upset one morning in April, 1917.
when the General Commanding the Desert
Column, Sir Philip Chetwode, Bart.,
addressed the G.O’s.C. and C.O.’s of his mob
on the subject of the forthcoming battle—
Second Gaza. He tore the battle plans of
his superiors to tatters and then, having
jumped on the fragments, explained wliat
he’d like to do. I listened open-mouthed and
came away feeling that the army would hear
of Chetwode’s resignation next day But
nothing of the sort happened, and the P. 8.1.,
Light Horse and Camel Corps went on their
way to slaughter. Later the brass-hats
responsible were shipped back to England.
Had the battle been a success I expect Chet-
wode would have been the passenger.
* =i= * *
“Avon”: A ship that could tell a lot of
State secrets if she could talk is the steamer
Ilinemoa, now a little over 50 years old. felie
was built on the Clyde for the Maoriland
Government, and for years was used to take
members of Parliament to and from Wel-
lington, being equipped with 50 cabins. Grey,
Atkinson, Yogel, Ballance and Seddon knew
her well, and many a political plot was
hatched in those cabins. Thirty years ago
she ceased to be a yacht and became a light-
house tender. Now, at the end of that sphere
of usefulness, she has been, sold to D. W.
McKay, of Invercargill, and, being as sound
as the day she was built, is to be refitted
as a yacht, dressed in white and gold, and
will carry tourists from Bluff to Milford
Sound and back.
* * * *
“Bill O’C.” (from Dutchland) : Sitting
in the big hall of the Gassebaum Cafe on
the Rembrandt Plein in Amsterdam, I
couldn’t help recalling how, many years ago,
an attempt was made to introduce in at
least one Australian capital city what was
known as the “Continental Evening - a
sort of sociable entertainment, music and
some stage show (in the open air usually),
with the audience seated at small tables and
refreshments available. The venture seemed
to be catching on for a season or two, but
burdensome laws and bad habits killed it.
No liquor could be served except not very
palatable and rather expensive wine. In
the one interval most of the men swarmed
to an inadequate bar and struggled for soft
drinks. Others walked to the nearest hotel
and consumed long beers and whisky and
soda so hurriedly that they were apt to be
noisy nuisances when they returned. In this
Amsterdam cafe (one of many such) there
must be close on 1500 mynheers with their
vrouws, and mevrouws with their swains,
all seated contentedly sipping their long
glasses of excellent and cheap beer, their
cognac and coffee or whatever they prefer,
You are not expected to occupy a seat with-
out ordering refreshment, but there is no
compulsion, only plenty of waiters to see to
your requirements. There are two orchestras
varying their part from excellent music to
jazz tunes and popular songs. The leaders
are merry devils, who get the staid burghers
singing the choruses and the girls tapping
heels to the dance tunes, though there is no
dancing here. The audience probably doesn t
average two drinks a head and all go away
happy and sober. Most people are content
with an hour or so, but a glutton may taka
in the whole evening's programme for the
price of one glass of beer. The numbers
make the show pay, and the fact that it is
not a set, formal entertainment but a
ANOTHER OF THOSE HORRID LITTLE BOYS.
GINGER (to driver ): “P’raps you’ve overwound the spring, Mister!”
pleasant relaxation ensures the numbers. Why
cannot we in Australia relax rationally, too,
instead of encouraging young men who want
to swallow potent liquor to do it on their
feet and keep on doing it to their own
undoing?
* H* «' ***
“X.D.”: Perhaps the most original excuse
yet advanced for having kicked a con-
stable was put forward in the Brunswick
(Vic.) Court by a man who got seven days
for assault and battery. He declared that he
suffered from rheumatism and when the
policeman grabbed his arm, his leg auto-
matically “jumped out at him.”
* * . * *
“Bouragi”: Usually it is the _ holidaying
missionary who spins the hair-raising yarns
about the dangers of those South Sea islands
which are really far safer for the wayfarer
than Melbourne’s Pitzroy or Sydney’s Hay-
market. Lately the kettle has passed to
individuals returning from discovering new
El Dorados in the New Guinea goldfields.
One such told an open-mouthed audience the
other day that New Guinea was a wonder-
fully interesting and adventurous place
“whore one may unexpectedly have poisoned
darts blown into one by little black men.
One may take it that such happenings are
generally unexpected, but in New Guinea
they would come with a special shock, for the
blowpipe is unknown there. North-west, in
Malaya, among the Dyaks, and still further
west in the Andamans, not to mention the
pygmies’ section of Darkest Africa, a blown
dart might even now be someone’s portion. In
N.G. the only people likely to “sting one,
outside the company promoters, are the
beachcombers of Salamoa.
* * * *
“Oxmead” : How hard some of these inane
“dock gags” die! A delinquent at Forbes
■(N.S.W.), on receiving six weeks for theft,
blithely remarked that he could “do it on
his head.” Whereupon the aggrieved magis-
trate doubled the sentence for contempt of
court. Writer has heard the senseless phrase
employed by unregenerates at the Old Bailey
without eliciting any such display of judicial
sternness. It is certainly 50 years old
and more probably a hundred, and the con-
eluding lines of a ditty that once had
some vogue in London still linger m the
memory. It dealt with the fate of a lady
convicted, along with her aunt, of shop-
lifting.
“Half a dozen with hard might be rough on a man,
Said Elizabeth, tipping the wink to her aunt 1>;
“But I’ll do the whole lot on my head if I can
Though it’s heedless to say that Elizabeth can t.
“Lao-dah”: Residents of Brighton (Vic.)
were recently importuned to help solve the
unemployment problem by putting out of-
works on to the job of making the
footpaths more gardensome. One street rose
to the occasion like one man, and the
thoroughfare was soon looking like fit. Iviida-
road in miniature. Two weeks later the
Electrical Supply Co. came along and tore
it all up to lay a light cable.
“Mr. Cato” : It was somewhere in Surry
Hills where, breaking in upon a torrent of
harsh vociferation, I heard the voice of the
Perfect Ladv. She held a handkerchief daintily
to an eye that was rapidly deepening m color,
while several of her friends were offering
their svmpatliy. One dame, although patently
not an eye-witness to the outrage, seemed
to have no doubts as to who was responsible.
“Yer ’usban’ biffed yer, now, didn t e? she
put it as she polished a cup with a dish-
cloth The other lady shook her head, but
the dishcloth dame ignored the gesture. Jhr
old man must ’ave give ’er that eye,” she
reiterated. “I see ’e’s ’ome agen this mornin’.
’B’s bin away for six munce in the country
or somewhere. It was your ’usband that
done it, wasn’t it, Missus?” she persisted.
“Pardon me,” replied the Perfect Lady, with
superb dignity, “it was not my husband who
struck me. It was another gentleman —i
gentleman who objected to my husband’s
return.”
“Nikko” : One historic occasio'n on which
visitors attempting to board a vessel were
hosed to damp their enthusiasm is mentioned
somewhere in Lady Brassey’s. “Sunbeam
books. The famous yacht was in the China
Sea, and hordes of Celestials made a deter-
mined effort to gain the decks. When per-
suasion and threats failed alike to stem the
invasion, the vessel’s hose was requisitioned.
But the interesting point about the Sunbeam
affair is that hot water was used.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: South Australia has for five
years made pillion-riding on motor-cycles un-
lawful, but. finding that it stood alone m
that view, withdrew the prohibition three
months ago. Only one passenger, riding
astride with firm footrests, is the present
regulation. Three young men on one cycle
have now had a terrible smash, with two of
them killed, and Anthoney, member for Sturt,
promptly moved in Parliament to have the
ban imposed again. He got very little sup-
port. The trade has gone to great expense
in fitting up cycles for the new regulations;
and there seems to be a general feeling that
the game is reasonably safe, and that a
single smash under unlawful conditions
should not prejudice other riders.
* * * *
“Murkah”: The mysterious ether-link of
radio has proved a real boon to the islands
of the Pacific, for the volume of traffic would
never have warranted the laying of a net-
work of costly cable. Where the ocean-floor
is largely composed of sharp-edged coral,
cable upkeep is a serious item, and Noumea s
submarine link with the mainland was more
often stopped than going. Now, with about
as much power as might light one bulb,
Noumea communicates with Paris direct, and
the torn cable lies discarded. But for the
coming of the spark (cheap both as to in-
stallation and upkeep) such lonely outposts
as Madang, Eitape (New Guinea), Samarai,
Woodlark,. Misima, Nauru and Ocean Island
would have remained isolated. I once arrived
at Woodlark on December 4 and the first
question was whht had won the Melbourne
Cup! Now a daily budget of news is re-
ceived from all over the world.
“Wakatu”: Settlers in some parts of
Maoriland are finding the aftermath of the
Big Shake more damaging than the dis-
turbance itself. In June two 4000 ft. hills
in the Wangapeka Valley sent down slips
which formed a dam across the Little Wan-
ganui River a mile long and 400 feet high.
When a survey of the shattered areas was
made recently, it was reported .that the
river was flowing under the bottom of the
obstruction. The other day the dam burst,
taking in its stride farmhouses, bridges and
live-stock. At least four houses disappeared
entirely. There was no loss of life, but all
the farms, besides being covered with debris,
lost heavily in stock. Some will have to
be abandoned. It is surmised that a sudden
rise in the river due to melting snows car-
ried away the dam.
The dozen superb drawings which Norman
Lindsay did to illustrate “The Quarter-
master” have been reproduced in two-tone
ink on art paper, and are now on sale at The
Bulletin’s chief office, Sydney, and at all
branch offices. The complete set of one
dozen drawings costs only 25., and to put
country subscribers on the same footing as
those of the cities, the set will be sent post-
free from the head office to any address in
Australasia.
NO MYSTERY NOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ‘Women,’ pronounces the Tailor and Cutter
severely ‘formerly charmed by showing their best
side to’their lovers, whatever their husbands found
out later but the present lavish exhibition of
feminine limbs is sufficient to stifle young love
and drive off romance.’ ”
Phyllis, in days when good old Vic. was
queen,
Across the lawn or floor you used to
rustle
Hoop-girt in yards of billowy crinoline;
Later you wore a gadget called a bustle,
Your shape, ’neath either form of archi-
tecture,
Remaining largely matter of conjecture.
Before the century to its closing came
To raiment less eccentric you’d reverted ;
Still, each successive fashion saw your frame
Securely bloused and adequately skirted.
Even a moderate display of stocking
Most censors would have deemed exposure
shocking.
Now in these post-war days, my precious
pet,
Your taste for startlingly exiguous dress-
ing
Has solved one mystery at least and set,
For good or otherwise, an end to guessing.
What you are like beneath your garb we
wonder
No more—there is so little to be under.
The doubts about the way your contours
curved
Which gave material for poetic fancies
Are solved without, so far as I’ve observed,
Any diminishing of love romances,
Despite all these alarums and excursions
And shockingly unehivalrous aspersions.
And, Phyllis, there’s a sort of quid pro quo,
Even if shedding of extraneous covers
Should breed a race of less enraptured
beaux,
A cult of less infatuated lovers.
Bethink, when spinsterhood shall reach con-
clusion,
There’ll be a husband less to disillusion.
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


s»s
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOID.
Total Assets exceed . £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
(2 » In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
the Asflociation and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sun. assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost eveiy contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS ‘ ~ ”— —
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
jlxvxx xo CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men c/ integrity.
RUTTPR SMITH. General Manaorer.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's (com. Sat.) .... “Hold Everything”
Royal “It Pays to Advertise”
Criterion “Lombardi, Ltd.”
Tivoli Vaudeville
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty's “Show Boat”
Royal “Journey’s End”
King's “Whoopee”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt's Movies and Talkies
-State Movies and Talkies
Sydney Tivoli, which goes west, this week,
scarcely departs in a blaze of glory. Given
big attendances, the withdrawal of its license
would have made the old house look like a
martyr. But its audiences on most nights
would have looked small even in a suburban
picture show; so, instead, it goes down like
an old horse kindly put but of misery.
An official statement has it that some
time ago the licensing authority de-
cided that the theatre was “unsuitable
for present-day requirements.” .Certainly
it was not bscmeared with stucco cov-
ered with gilt in the manner of some
more recent show houses, and perhaps
the bust or two standing about the
stairs are put to shame by plaster nudes
bathing in rose light in perpendicular bath-
tubs about auditorium walls. Nor has it
been customary to display the concrete foot-
prints of Little Tich and other stars that
have shone there. But it has been a friendly
old place, run on non-vulgarian lines, and its
passing is all the more to be regretted be-
cause the kind of entertainment that goes
with it does not exist in any other Sydney
house. There is .no prospect of its being
rebuilt, owing to a licensing Act requiring
that all theatres over a certain size shall
have exits into separate streets.
Musgrove, manager of the circuit, which
is leased to the Firm, has stated that it is
not intended to discontinue vaudeville en-
tirely. But of course this may mean any-
thing. The Firm sprinkles a fair amount of
variety through its musicomedy turns these
days, so, without doing a thing extra,
it can easily live up to the implied pro-
mise. Or the Palace, closed at time of writ-
ing, and usually in that condition, could
become the last refuge of the variety artist.
For the present the closing of the Tiv. throws
a staff of 50 out of work, including some
DAWN HARDING, who sings in a leading role in Fritz Hart’s
new opera, “The Woman Who Laughed at Faery,” at
Melbourne Playhouse.
who have been with the house for 30 years
and more.
The Tiv., which had its great days under
Harry Rickards, dates back 50 years. It
has handed out salaries of up to £4OO a
week (Wilkie Bard), and several, including
Wee Georgie Wood, Ella Shields and Rob
Wilton, have touched the £2OO mark. The
property was originally bought for £9000; a
year ago it changed hands for £90,000.
The closure will be applied after Friday
night’s performance, and for this final
w'eek the management is gathering together
all old hands who have appeared at the
house with the idea of letting them tread
the boards once more—a ghostly form of
swan song that may or may nor. ring cheer-
fully around the other recognised legit,
houses of Sydney. At time of writing the
city’s legitimate stage looks like this: —
Tivoli: Closes on Friday.
Palace: Temporarily closed. Often in that
condition.
Majesty’s: Nothing stronger than musical
comedy, please.
St. James: Converted into a talkie house.
Royal: To be a talkie house after the pre-
sent Leon Gordon season.
Criterion: To come down in the widening
of Park-street.
Empire: Has been closed for months.
A protest is expected from Sydney Uni.
undergraduates—there’s not much point in
throwing tomatoes at an Al. Jolson, much
as he might appear to deserve them.
* * *
The Show burst upon Melbourne last week.
It is still the same old Show, despite Mr
Schwieger’s assertions to the contrary. The
Bulletin would be inconsolable if it wasn’t.
The shrubs are getting taller and the Clydes-
dales look half a cwt. heavier, and the place
is beginning to look less like a temporary
halting place and more like a model town-
ship. That is all. But it would be: terrible
if the committee tried to attract the city
multitude thither by installing million-pound
picture-palaces and Luna parks in place of
Bafflo the mystery man, Croako the Human
Frog, and the Deathpit, where posters
depicting negroes mounted on fiery Arab
steeds and battling with gigantic pythons
tempt you to enter and survey the spectacle
of Mr. Briggs endeavoring to the best of
his ability to arouse a carpet-snake from
its winter sleep and make it act up to
its reputation.
The Bulletin also renewed acquaintance
with Mr. Williams, of Wangaratta, the place
where the Sydney express is always 40
minutes late. Last year Mr. Williams got
first prize for his single-farm exhibit with
420 items. This year he has only 400, but
this does not indicate that he is being van-
quished in the struggle for a self-contained
existence. It only means that he has been
a little more selective. Mr. Williams, aided
by a wife and a share hand, produces out of
his 200 acres an exhibit which is almost a
complete inventory of the primary industries.
The items include tobacco, snake-skins for
shoes, peanuts, capsicums, preserved meats,
six kinds of grains, greenhide halters, brooms
made of millet and
ti-tree, wild and
tame honey and all
the products of the
dairy. Mr. Swiss
Family Robinson
stands by his ex-
hibits, modestly, dis-
claiming most of
the responsibility.
His wife does SO
p.c. of it.
The Bulletin
has a grouch
against Mr.
Schwieger for pav-
ing his stands with
clay, which is not
the best material
in wet weather.
The Bulletin’s
small boy, aged
eight, also has a
grouch against Mr.
Schwieger. True
to the best show
traditions, he lost
his parent, and
fearing for the
safety of the old
man, with all these
uncles from Fiji
about, he referred
the matter to a
policeman. T h e
policeman placed
him under arrest
and marched him
to a cr&che. de-
spite his protests.
There he was found
two hours later,
purple with indig-
nation, interned in
a sort of wired com-
pound with mere
infants. He had
been given toys to
play with, and,
what is worse,
admonished not to
cry! This insult can only be wiped out in
blood, and he will meet Mr. Schwieger with
any weapons, from shangs to waterguns. If
Mr. Schwieger ignores the challenge the world
will know him for what he is.
The Tagalog Fire-walkers were unfortun-
ately not available. Possibly they were suf-
fering from chilblains through having to
forego their usual habit of squatting on
redhot coals during the voyage over.
Show visitors with a taste for classical
music were well catered for in Melbourne
last week. Glorious Dusolina Giannini
fled through the town and dropped several
curtseys and a farewell concert at the Town
Hall, packed with an applauding multitude.
Thereupon she departed for Canberra to give
a recital, the first prima donna of her ton-
nage to take artistic notice of Australia’s
capital.
Madame McArden, the diva of Melb. Uni-
versity, likewise gave a concert at the
Assembly Hall. The
audience had plenty
of room to rest its
elbows, but the pro-
gramme was more
attractive than the
one the lady lately
presented at the
Town Hall.
Amy Castles has
come out of her re-
tirement and is
singing between the
talkies at the Plaza,
the Williamsonian
film theatre where
the ice-creams are
served by admirals
of the fleet and
patrons are shown
to their seats by
girls dressed like
so many Margarets
of Anjou. Miss
Castles’s voice is
still rich and splen-
did enough to ruffle
it in such ornate
surroundings with-
out inviting invidi-
ous comparisons.
On Saturday night
the Victorian Pro-
fessional Orchestra
gave another air-
ing to the lighter
classics at the
Auditorium, and it
was well attended.
* *
Adelaide got its
first look at Piran-
dello when the Re-
pertory put on the
cheerful but long-
winded play trans-
lated variously as
“Right You Are”
or “And That’s the
Truth,” in either
case with the qualification “If You Think So.”
A small town is all agog over an official’s
treatment of his wife and her mother, whom
he keeps apart. The mother explains uncon-
vincingly. He comes to apologise ; the old lady
is insane, her daughter is dead, and he has
taken a second wife, but the poor soul can-
not realise this. Back she comes to apolo-
gise : the poor fellow is insane, and has never
had any wife but her daughter. Which is
right? Which mad? A humorous cynic, a sort
of Einstein of the mind—Pirandello’s idea
of himself, perhaps—claims that both are
right; truth is just whatever you think it is
Finally officialdom takes a hand. The wife
is produced, a veiled figure. She says
she is His second wife, also Her daughter,
and leaves it at that —which is nowhere. And
Einstein laughs the curtain down.
This light windy stuff has been translated
into the American language, so that “right
here” and “right now” stand as emphasis,
and eccentricity is denied with “Eccentric
nothing!” From a welter of gossip three
characters stand out, and fortunately all
were finely played: Wallace Johnstone the
cynic, Hubert Sando (an old inter-State
cricketer) the husband, Nell Myhill, a new-
comer and a great find, the mother. The
prompter was hard-worked on the opening
night, and in general the women were better
than the men. Harold Denton produced.
* #
Chief among Adelaide shows for the week
has been the Show, attracting crowds easily
a record, in spite of depressed times and a
dubious season. Country visitors are being
thrilled by an Andersonian “Bat” season at
the Prince of Wales ; the Kentucky Singers
have a short Royal season; and “Juanita,”
an Aird-King-Fewster local product, with
Bowman-ballet dancing prominent, is un-
folding its musical-comedy idea of modern
Spain. With professionals in the lead, this
piece might be well worth an extended trial.
* * *
Originally billed to occupy the Auditorium,
the Kentucky Singers opened in Melbourne
at the Tivoli. Probably the management
felt that in a country flooded with talkie
“shorts” a troupe of colored warblers, mel-
odious as they may be, are not sufficient
draw to carry through a whole programme.
Their inclusion in the Tiv. bill makes that
respectable house’s provender a full and
satisfying banquet.
¥ * ¥
Melb. Bij. is as it was in the beginning,
is now and always will be, whirling without
end, amen, the only difference being that
the latest revue calls itself the O’Brian
Revellers and is staged on a scale of unpar-
alleled grandeur, which means, among other
things, eight ballet girls in pink fleshings
instead of the statutory six without ’em.
The Bulletin has received a cheerful
letter from the committee of the Victorian
Professional Orchestra thanking it for cour-
tesy shown towards the first series of popu-
lar concerts, and remarking that “the re-
ports of your critics have been of the utmost
GWYNETH LASCELLES, the Manly (N.S.W.) girl, now leading
in “Show Boat” at Melbourne Majesty’s.
assistance in our campaign, against the syn-
chronised music which has caused havoc in
the ranks of professional musicans.” The
Bulletin also thanks the V.P.O. for several
pleasant evenings, and wishes it the best for
its second series l of concerts, which began on
Saturday.
* * *
A choirmaster is a sort of organist, but
he has to build his organ before he can
play on it. .Christian Hellemann, who has
been blessed by having some very good
material at his disposal, has made the Syd-
ney Male Choir into a responsive and accu-
rate instrument. It is already beyond the
Dudley Buckery stage, and on Saturday night
at the Uni. Con. concert hall sang a chorus
from Elgar’s “Caractacus” and Ilegar’s part-
song, “The Phantom Host,” and both per-
formances were very effective. The choir’s
basses are good, and the middle section
reliable. The tenors —well, tenors are scarce.
Norman Hestelow in the “Caractacus” solo
was a little over-weighted. Among the
soloists was John Lemmone, whose skill as
a flautist grows magically with the years.
* * *
Fred Forbes’s “Funbeams” replaced Jim
Gerald at Sydney Fullers’ last week, and
provided a bright and lively show of vaude-
ville dotted with sketches. In Irene Sham-
rock the show has a sparkling soubrette.
Fred Forbes himself provides much of the
light-comedy work of the sketches, showing
well in an exposition of how to pirate in
four languages. Bert Lee, Charles Megan,
Betty Lambert and Aster Faire make up the
balance of a capable comedy co.
Sydney Regent on Saturday turned to
the “Fox Follies” talkie of theatre life,
not to be compared with “The Broadway
Melody,” which, built on the same theme,
finished on Friday at the same house. The
new bill is chiefly interesting for a “short”
of Conan Doyle describing how he came
to write the Sherlock Holmes stories. He
says, in addition, that his spiritualism is
no recent growth; even before he thought
of Holmes he was writing on the spooky
topic.
Nellie Bramley brought forth “Uncle
Tom’s Cabin” for this week. Extra chairs
were provided and people turned away. In
fact, the piece proved such a success that
it is to be shown again next week, which is
altogether contrary to me Bramley tra-
dition.
“No 17” reigns at His Majesty’s.


niiMiin
■
m
1 \
0
islllli
llillilll
m
0
The Royal Commission appointed .to
inquire into the Federal Arbitration
System reports
4 ‘That industrial legislation peculiarly
requires local supervision, and should be in
the hands of the authority which is respon-
sible for the maintenance of law and for
the good order of the community.
“ .We are of the opinion that the arbi-
tration power should not be exercisable
by two authorities, and it should be in
the hands of the State, NOT THE
COMMONWEALTH.”
See Hansard, 5th Sept., 1929. , , , ,
(Page 823) Mr. Bruce: “Having no police force in the various States, the Commonwealth had to rely
upon the States to uphold its laws. In Sydney the spectacle was witnessed of a Judge of the Arbitration
Court being burnt in effigy.”
Mr. Hughes: “Hear! Hear!”
If Mr. Hughes denies that his interjection places him on the side of lawlessness, then he admits t at it
was an endorsement of State arbitration.
Mr. Scullin (leader of the Labor party), speaking at Clifton Hill on June 23, said: “It has been stated
that the men were striking against an award of the Court, but there came a time when an award was so
outrageous and unjust that it was impossible to accept terms that were calamitous.
Which do you prefer?
This
Stagnation
ot
JlOltOndl. ,
Prosperity
o'*
r*
&•%
M
ii
»
tm
M
Z'S
«&
\ J
5*
a
=e%^-fc
On three occasions the people of Australia
have emphatically and definitely refused to
hand over to the Commonwealth the control
of industrial disputes.
No one can deny the confusion and lack
of uniformity that exists through the dupli-
cation of Federal and State courts.
A National Government means Industrial
Peace, Higher Standard of Living, Higher
Wages, More Employment—in other words,
Prosperity for All.
FOR AUSTRAIIAJ SAKE
VOTEr
FOR SELECTED
NATIONALIST
CANDIDATES.
Authorised by H. W. Horsfield, General Secretary, 15 Bligh Street , Sydney.
mm
m
w
sil
MModda^ttH)


R°NE.°
BUSINESS
EFFICIENCY
METHODS.
British Manufacture
STEEL CABINETS.
FILING SYSTEMS.
VISIBLE CARD
RECORDS.
RONEOTYPE
DUPLICATORS.
ADDRESSING
MACHINES.
ON EXHIBITION AT
21 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY.
mm
64 MARKET STREET, MELBOURNE.
43 CREEK STREET, BRISBANE.
GAWLER PLACE, ADELAIDE.
107 MURRAY STREET, PERTH.
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
Tho Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire,
IVTonobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting- Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
“LET’S CHOOSE EXECUTORS AND TALK OF WILLS”
HAVE YOU CHOSEN YOUR EXECUTOR?
If vou have appointed a friend, have you considered that he may die soon after you, and your
estate may pass into the control of someone whom you would never have trusted? That he may
maladminister the funds? Or your Estate may suffer losses through his neglect or inexperience?
THESE RISKS CAN BE OVERCOME BY APPOINTING AS YOUR EXECUTOR
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
OF 33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
which offers undoubted Security, combined with Expert Administration.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS NOW UNDER THE COMPANY’S CONTROL EXCEED £36,350,000
Write for Booklet.
Managing Director: R.
COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
Manager: H. V. DOUGLASS.
w Depend On
Wunderlich Quality
Wunderlich Metal Ceilings
Wunderlich Roofing fes
Wu-nderlich “ Durabestos” Building
Sheets
Wunderlich Metal Shopfronts
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfem, Sydney
Branches in all States
For, Fort}) Years, Manufacturers of Quality
Products for Ceilings, Walls,
and rtoojs &
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Union Bank of Australia, Ltd.
Dividends Writ-
Feb., Profits. (14 p.c.) ten Off. Reserves.
1919.. 349,321 280,000 "20,000 2,148,614
Premiums on new shares, £500,000 2,648.61‘4
(15 p.c.)
1920.. 458,102 375,000 20,000 2,711,716
1921.. 516,340 375,000 20,000 2,833,057
Premiums on new shares, £400,000 3,233,057
1922.. 536,261 412,500 20,000 3,336,818
1923.. 552,894 450,000 3,439,712
1924.. 550,291 450.000 3,540,003
Premiums on new shares, £600,000 4,140,003
1925.. 590,399 487,500 4,242,902
1926.. 627,611 525,000 50,000 4.295,513
1927.. 627,426 525,000 50,000 4,347,939
Premiums on new shares, £600,000 4,947,939
1928.. 638,965 562,500 50,000 ( . 0 . 0
Provident fund, £25,000.. . j 4,949,404
1929.. 611,932 600,000 25,000 4,936,336
A shrinkage in the total value of Australian
imports and exports affected exchange earn-
ings ; advances, too, were below the previous
year’s, so earnings from that section were
not quite so good, either. On the other hand,
a dozen new branches were opened during
the term, and that helped to swell outgoings:
new offices can’t be expected to show a
profit straight off. Thus one way and another
the year’s admitted net profit fell away
£27,033; and after paying the usual 15 p.c.
dividend and striking off £25,000 against de-
preciation of buildings the visible reserves
were reduced by £13,068. But they are still
£936,336 in excess of paid capital.
This comparison of p. and 1. figures gives
a good idea of what happened :
1925 1928 1929
Gross profit . . £1,430,714 £1,531,695 £1,536,950
Rxes 840,315 892,730 925,018
Net profit .. £590,399 £638,965 £611,932
Exes, in Australia and Maoriland (£792,805)
were £48,142 heavier, taxation accounting
for £29,000 of the increase; but those
charged to London (£132,213) were £15,854
lighter, due mainly to reduced British taxa-
tion. Gross profits, which were only £5255
better than the previous year’s, are. written
into the sheet after, of course, providing
for bad and doubtful debts and other con-
tingencies. That allowances made in good
times have not underestimated requirements
is obvious from the fact that for more than
90 years shareholders have never failed to
receive an annual dividend.
The outstanding feature in balance-sheet
figures is strength:—
Liabilities.
1925. 1928. 1929.
Notes . . . . £721,031 £572,395 £579,729
Deposits . . . . 33,995,484 33,978,582 35,644,350
Bills, etc. . . 4,005,166 3,343,909 3,507,051
Liquid assets . . 20,060,779 19,156,017 18,127,290
Advances . . . . 26,274,751 27,600,997 30,454,431
Premises . . . . 391,553 387,275 385,745
What probably pleases the board more than
anything else there is the continued growth
in deposits; an extra £1,665,768 was
gathered last year. How much of the total
is fixed and how much free is not disclosed
in the sheet, but the quarterly banking re-
turns show that about 63 p.c.” of the lot is
interest bearing. Most of the increase of
£2,853,434 in advances took place toward the
close of accounts, and the demand for accom-
modation has continued since, so the current
year’s earnings should get more help from
that quarter than the last one’s did. Liquids,
mostly cash, were drawn upon for £1,028,727 ;
nevertheless, they amounted to 9s. Id. of
every pound of the public’s money held when
the books closed. Also depositors could see
17.8 p.c. of every pound coming to them
in bullion and cash balances, while the bank
was holding only £4 Bs. lid. of the public’s
money for every £1 of its own funds. So,
looked at from that angle,. the lending con-
nection can be further expanded without
shareholders being called upon to assist.
Paid capital is £4,000,000 in £l5 shares paid
to £5; the other £lO is a contingent liability
callable only in the event of a wind-up. Half
the capital has been got in during the last
decade, and it brought with it £2,100,000 of
share premiums, so the 15 p.c. div. is not
nearly so rich as it looks. The last million
added to the share register is costing the
bank only 6.8 p.c. A holder who bought
the scrip in 1918, and has since taken up
his full quota of new issues, is now receiv-
ing 7.3 p.c. on his investment. What capital
expansion in the future is likely to be is im-
possible to say.
At the current market price (£l5 per
share) the return is 5 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div.
basis.
Adelaide Steamship Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1919. . 162,452 15 p.c. =116,257 36,195 561,195
Uo. reconstruiieu. Assets written up.
£1,550.090 transferred to capital.
1920.. 88,713* 3f p.c. = 87,192 1,521 47,521
1921 . 231,725 7} „ ~ 174,385 57,340 104,861
1922.. 199,485 74 „ „ 174,385 25,100 129,961
1923.. 211,289 74 „ ~174,385 36,904 166,865
1924.. 215,257 74 „ „ 174,385 40,872 207,737
1925.. 228,118 74 „ „ 174,385 53,733 261,470
1926.. 224,600 7J „ ~ 180,198 44,402 305,872
1927.. 230,901 8 „ ~ 186,011 44,890 350,762
1928.. 182,836 7 „ „ 162,759 20,077 370,839
1929.. 149,755 54,, ~ 127,882 21,873 392,712
of year only.
The madness in the coal industry, general
trade depression, the ill effects of unrest in
the shipping and timber businesses and com-
petition from air, motor and rail transport
all contributed to the sharp contraction of
£33,081 in last year’s disclosed' profit. The
net result claimed by the accounts was
£127,755, or barely sufficient to pay the
reduced div., which called for £34,877 less
than the previous year’s.
The difference between the profit claimed
in the accounts and that shown in the table
represents net additions to tho insurance fund
and the repairs, renewals and replacements
reserve; the “Wild Cat” prefers to regard
these as profit. The insurance account now
figures at £220,000, and the other at £172,000 ;
the year’s increase in the combined figures
was £22,000 as against £20,000 and £45,000
in the two preceding terms. The then con-
tents of these two reserves, and a million or
so more, were handed out in the big one-for-
tliree gift issue nine years back. Since then
their growth has been undisturbed; from
which it might be assumed that losses and
repairs have been otherwise provided for.
Out of each year’s earnings an unspecified
amount is struck off for depreciation of the
fleet and plant before the net figures are dis-
closed.
The year’s £149,755 of profit is the least
attractive result the board has exhibited
since 1915, when the war began to provide
full and remunerative employment for the
co.’s tonnage. The ratio to paid capital
slipped down to 6.4 p.c. compared with 7.8,
9.9, 9.6, 9.8 and 9.2 p.c. back to 1924, so
points were chipped off the div., reducing it
to 5£ p.c. Certainly the writing-up in 1920
made it plain that up to that time the board
had put by more than was immediately neces-
sary for depreciation, etc. But conditions
have changed greatly since, and it seems
pretty certain that opportunities to stow'
away profits on the old scale no longer exist.
lake most other Australian shipping cos.,
Adelaide Steam is substantially interested in
coal. It has large holdings in Abermain
(paid capital, £1,200,000) and East Greta
(paid capital £575,000). The latter co.
paid no div. in its last term, and an average
of only 4.1 p.c. for the last five years. Aber-
main dropped its last interim div. to 5 p.c.,
and paid an average of 10.5 p.c. in its last
five years. Yet it is not so much the shrink-
age in dividend returns as the loss of the
coal-carrying trade and of coal supplies that
has damaged the Adelaide co.’s profits. Ilow
soon coal will be able to reorganise itself
and get costs into line with falling values is
difficult to say. Until the present waste in
the industry is eliminated by a reduction in
the number of uneconomical pits, by merger
or otherwise, the future of the trade remains
uncertain. Indications are that the re-
adjustment is not going to be speedy. And
when it is completed much of the old trade
will not be there to be recovered.
Shortly before the close of accounts the
new 9000-ton passenger motor vessel Man-
unda was put into commission. Also a small
steamer was bought during the year for the
Queensland trade, and a tug and a couple
of coal hulks were scrapped. Apart from
tugs, lighters, etc., the co. had 33 ships
aggregating 81,855 tons at work at June 30,
and that was 9435 tons more than was
employed a year earlier. All this is reflected
in an increase of £220,774 in the book
value of the main asset:—
1923. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital .. £2,325,135 £2,325,135 £2,325,135
Liabilities . . 232,331 185,614 245,562
Steamers, properties,
investments, etc. 2,338,385 2,310,373 2,531,147
Commonwealth Loans 323,662 532,588 483,650
Stocks and stores 93,497 50,421 58,014
Book debts & cash 198,043 242,020 142,575
The growth of £59,948 in liabilities is partly
the balance owing on the Manunda. The
more or less liquid surplus (£438,677) was
£200.738 lighter than at the previous balance.
But the position is stronger than that, be-
cause a tidy wad of Government securities is
lumped with fixed assets and other invest-
ments. Financially the co. is in good fettle
to face difficulties. But it has thus far not
been able to visibly regain the reserve
strength that was used up in the last big
capitalisation.
Because the outlook is obscure, the share
market, wffiich paid 265. 3d. for the scrip two
years ago, now offers 21s. At the latter figure
the return is only 5.2 p.c. on a 5J p.c. div.
basis ; it would be 6.6 p.c. should the div. rate
be lifted to 7 p.c. again. The visible backing
is 235. Id. per share in net tangibles.
G. J. Coles & Co.
f Dividends *
Pref. To Re-
June, Profits. 8 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
62,398
1928. .52,030 2250 12* p.c. = 34,792 14,988 47,410
Net premiums on new shares, £27,426.. 19,984
Reserves.
1929. .74,996 6193 12i p.c. = 45,800 23,003 3,019
It was in 1921 that the Coles family
formed a proprietary co. in Melbourne, and
then took off their coats and set to work
to build up a chain of stores in which the
top price of any article would be 2s. 6d.
Three years later there were three stores,
paid capital was £32,416, and turnover
£190,982. Each year since then fresh capital
has been got in, and one, two or three new
stores added to the chain. The result lias
been very remarkable. This next comparison
shows how turnover lias bounded ahead: —
Stores. Sales. Stores. Sales.
1924.. 3 £190,982 j 1927.. 8 £837,621
1925.. 5 372,409 I 1928.. 10 1,052,882
1926.. 6 563,466 j 1929.. 13 1,592,890
Shortly before the close of accounts in 1928,
the co. took a 21 years’ lease of the pre-
mises formerly occupied by the Civil Service
Stores, in Pitt-street, Sydney, at a rental
of £20,000 p.a. The rest of the shops are
in Victoria, where three new ones were
opened last year. The result shows up in
a spring of £540,000, equal to 51 p.c., in
turnover.
Cash sales and quick turnover are the
main pillars on which the business rests.
The co. buys and sells most of its lines
seven times a year. That is to say, it is
able to sell much of its goods, pay the bill
and pocket the profit all within the time
allowed under ordinary trade credit. This
removes much of the difficulty usually in-
volved in financing stocks; and, amongst
other things, it means low capital invest-
ment per store. Other features of the
system are low overhead and selling exes.
Last year gross profits (£416,736)
amounted to 26.2 p.c. of sales, as against
26.3 p.c. for the year before; and after set-
ting aside £11,300 for taxation, the ratio of
net profits to turnover was a trifle lighter
at 4.7 p.c. The' small shrinkage was due to
the extra outgo on premises that were not
earning anything. However, after satisfying
the prefs., the balance, of the year’s net
takings was 18.7 p.c. on average ord. capital,
compared with 17.8 p.c. for the previous
term, so the 12J p.c. div. was a very com-
fortable matter.
In 1927 the co. was reconstructed; good-
will, which is not treated as an asset herein,
was written up £62,000, making the total
£64,000 ; and all but a handful of the reserves
were handed out in a one-for-one gift issue.
That made paid capital £272,660. At the close
of last accounts the figure had grown to
£469,750 in 150.000 prefs. and 376,000 ords. —
there was still £50,576 of pref. money to come
in. The new shares were issued at pre-
miums of 2s. for the prefs'. and ss, and
10s. for the ords. Of the £27,959 of share
premiums gathered last year, brokerage took
£533, and £24,000 was struck off goodwill,
reducing the item to £40,000.
The fresh capital is wanted to complete
the new building, now going up on the site
formerly occupied by Cole’s Book Arcade,
Melbourne. There has been some delay, but
the contractor is expected to be off the pre-
mises early next year. The total cost, in-
cluding the land, is expected to be about
£400,000. At the close of accounts unpaid
commitments on freeholds and leaseholds
amounted to £284,448. There was then
£160.714 available in cash and uncalled capi-
tal, but shareholders are not to be asked
for any of the balaitce.
Here is the co.’s position as balance-sheet
figures show it: —
1928. 1929
Ord. capital £288,165 £376,000
Pref. capital . . .. .. 75,000 99,424
Overdraft . . .. .. 11,679
Sundry creditors . . .. 30,613 25,319
Freeholds .. .. .. 86,300 136,465
Leaseholds . . . . .. 25,205 55,031
Fixtures and fittings .. '31,857 47,019
Stock 237,914 188,053
Debtors . . . . .. 1,356 1,530
Cash 1,773 110,138
During the year £50,165 was spent on free-
holds, and £35,646 was added to the book
value of leaseholds. A new system of stock
control enabled that item to be reduced
£49,861. It was this and the new share
money that swelled the cash holding.
Chief investment interest now centres in
the ords., which are to be listed within the
next six months. The last lot was put out
at a premium of 10s. The scrip at 40s.
would return 6.2 p.c. on a p.c. div.
basis. Prospects of a new share issue will
depend upon further expansion of the busi-
ness, and it is on growth of turnover that
profit improvements will mainly depend. The
net tangible backing amounts to 20s. 2d.
per ord. share. The prefs., which carry a
fixed cumulative 8 p.c. and have priority as
to capital, are priced at 255. 3d. At that
figure the return is 6.3 p.c. Last year’s net
profit was over six times their full annual
requirements, and the backing figured out
at £3 10s. 6d. in net tangibles.
Hume Pipe Co. (Australia), Ltd.
Towards
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
110,827
Surplus assets transferred 11,978 98,849
Profit prior to incorporation 1,362 97.457
1921.. 19,986 5 p.c. = 12,094 7,892 89,595
Additional goodwill items, £1214 .. 90,809
Vendors’ adjustment, £Bl4 .. 91,623
1922.. 45.788 S p.e. = 28,800 19,988 71,635
Additional goodwill items, £3681 .. 75,316
New share costs, £9471 .. 84,787
Flotation consideration (Singa-
pore C 0.).. .. .. 10,000 7.4,. 8.
1923.. 53,977 10 p.e. = 43,375 10,602 64,185
Loss on Cobdogla plant, £23,583 . . 87,768
N.Z. establishment exes., £2038 . . 89,806
1924.. 17,556 Nil 17,656 72,250
Additional goodwill, £390 . . 72,640
1925.. 42,961 7 p.c. = 35,000 7,961 64,679
Additional goodwill, £257 . . 64,980
1926.. 40,209 8 p.e. 40,000 209 64,727
Additional goodwill, £l2O . . 64,847
1927.. 47,884 8 p.e. = 40,000 7,884 56,963
1928.. 53,229 8„ „ 40,000 13,229 43,734
Shares in other cos. written up,
£76,455 ; added assets fluctuation
reserve, £31,455 .. . . . . 12,27 s
Reserves.
1929.. 54,996 8 p.c. = 40,000 14,996 2,717
There was a sharp drop of over 20 p.c. ’n
turnover during the first half of the term,
but business brightened later and the year’s
sales were only about half of 1 per cent,
short of the previous year’s. Notwithstand-
ing this, and although setting aside an extra
£5OO for taxation (£10,500), the board was
able to exhibit an improvement of £1707 in
the final profit figure. It climbed to a
whisper under 11 p.c. on the half-million of
paid capital compared with 10.0. 9.5, 8, 8.5
and 3.7 p.c. back to 1924, when profats
were affected bjr the S. Aus. Government’s
action in abandoning the Cobdogla contract.
It was a cut in costs, following improved
manufacturing methods, that was responsible
for last year’s better showing. Also the
co. was able to reduce the selling price, and
it claims to have improved the quality of its
products. Moreover, another cut in prices is
expected to follow further advances on the
technical side during the current year-
advances more or less forced upon the co.
by competition. This suggests again how un-
certain an asset plant can be in the hands
of an unprogressive management. Patents,
which cost the co. £105,840, were given a
book value of £68,000 at June 30, the dif-
ference (£37,840) having been written off
out of earnings.
Hitherto shares in other cos. have figured
at cost, but in the latest accounts they
appear at the written up value of £124,644,
which the board says is a safe and conserva-
tive figure. There is nothing to suggest that
disclosed profits got any benefit from the
readjustment, which resulted in a surplus of
£76,455. Of this amount £31.455 was ear-
marked as an assets fluctuation reserve;
the other £45,000 was added to the provi-
sion for depreciation of plant (£50,000).
The latter is not included with the lay-by
in the table. The reserves shown there are
£2717 in excess of the book value of good-
will. But goodwill is by no means the only
line in a balance-sheet over which it is well
to ponder.
Amongst the co.’s share holdings are
165,000 £1 ords., which cost £416, in Hu nr
Steel, Ltd. This co., registered in 1923,
recently showed signs of more definite pro-
gress. ' Tlius far the ords. have; not got into
the picture, but for the year to Sept. 30.
1928, £21,348 was netted; the prefs. took
£5567 of it, and the balance was equal to 6.3
p.c. on the ord. capital, which had a
net tangible backing of only ss. 6d. per
share. Recently the Steel Co. sold most of
its foreign rights to a subsidiary for £500,000
in scrip. Incidentally, this multiplication
of the book value of patents will not make it
any easier for the new co. to win good
returns thereon.
Then there is the Singapore Co., in
which the parent holds 10,000 £1 ords. This
pup has thus far been the most visibly suc-
cessful one of the ITunie family. In its last
year it netted 29.2 p.c. on paid capital, and
the div. was lifted from 10 p.c. to 15 p.c.
The 15s. paid shares are at 265. on the
market.
Here is the parent’s position as balance-
sheet figures disclose it: —
1921. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital .. .. £322,515 £500,000 £500,000
Liabilities .. .. 112,443 26,867 30,631
Freeholds . . . . 38,838 48,885 54,317
Buildings, plant, etc. . . 92,478 186,078 185,268
Stocks 80,187 69,925 70,604
Uncompleted work . . 39,132 4,308 3,047
Book debts .. .. 47,771 121,905 93,681
Loan . . .. • • 35,8*8
Cash, etc 17,178 60,959 87,831
Shares in other cos. . . 46,825 55,096 124,644
Finances were comfortable enough. When the
books closed the outside debt was more than
2| times covered by cash and public securi-
ties alone. The more profitable trading dur-
ing the last couple of years is reflected in
the growth of the more or less liquid surplus
(£260,410, including stocks, but excluding
shares), which was £30,180 better than at
the previous balance, and £95,848 stronger
than at the close of accounts in 1927.
Plant is in less an unspecified amount for
depreciation, but the provision apparently
has not been sufficient to cover obsolescence,
which is often more expensive than ordinary


Generous
Measure/
Complete sharing
kit with 2 blades
-Two
v'/
VP-
R,
$
is
i.
K
* 7929
K
Latest type “Valet"
Auto Strop Safety
Razor in neat and
serviceable case.
2 genuine “Valet”
Blades in plated
Blade Sheath.
“Valet” Strop and
Tube of Auto Strop
Shaving Cream.
V
M
Of all dealers for a limited period
only
VALET”
AutcvStrop
Safety
Razior
Shovuuj
Cream
PHIPSON & COMPANY Ltd., 181 CLARENCE STREET, SYDN EY
Abridged Prospectus of
THE NATIONAL ASSURANCE SOCIETY
OF NEW SOOTH WALES, LTD.
(Registered under the Companies Act of N.S.W., 1899-1918.)
REGISTERED OFFICE: WATSON HOUSE, 9 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £1,000,000
Divided into 1,000,000 Shares of £1 each.
PRESENT ISSUE:—
100,000 Shares of £1 each are offered for subscription, payable 2/6
per share on application, 2/6 per share on allotment, and
2/6 per share every month thereafter.
10,000 Fully-paid Shares of £1 each to the Promoters as part con-
sideration for the organisation of the Society, and retention
of the Promoters’ services.
890,000 held in reserve.
£1,000,000
DIRECTORS:
JAMES BROWN RENWICK, Underwriter, King’s Pylon, Wollstonecraft, Chairman
and Managing Director.
WILLIAM VICTOR ARMSTRONG, Public Accountant, 62 Pitt Street, Sydney.
WILLIAM NELSON STONE, Manufacturer, Ashfield.
DR. C. E. WINSTON, Surgeon, New South Head Road, Rose Bay.
BANKERS •
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LTD., Royal Exchange Branch.
SOLICITORS*
A E. WHATMORE, G. C. M. GEE AND CO., Vickery’s Chambers, Pitt Street.
SECRETARY PRO TEM.:
E. J. WHITEHEAD, F.F.I.A.
OBJECTS OF THE SOCIETY
Compulsory Insurance
The Government legislation dealing with Life Insurance, Compulsory
Public Risk, Compulsory Sickness and Accident Compensation to the
Workers, affecting over one million and a half Australian workers, may
become law very soon, and will create an enormous amount of new and
highly profitable business. Therefore, the Directors consider now is the
time to establish and to organise the business of the National Assurance
.Society to meet the coming great demand for the insurance of these
important risks.
The Society will also transact all classes of Insurance business, and
the business of a Reversionary Company and a Trustee Company. The
Society will apply to be an approved Society under the proposed National
Insurance Act, presently before the Federal Parliament. The Society s
objects are set out in full detail in its Memorandum of Association.
The existing Insurance Companies have shown remarkable profits;
an extract from the Sydney “Bulletin “Wild Cat’ Monthly” of March,
1928, is as follows:
“FIRE INSURANCE PROFITS:—
“In addition to paying these very comfortable dividends, they have
without exception made fine gifts to their shareholders. . . . The
magnificence of the lay-by, coupled with the fact that last year was in
general a by no means exceptionally prosperous one for these com-
panies, suggests that further rich gifts may reasonably be expected.
This shows the immense value of insurance shares as an investment.
The Stock Exchange List of May, 1929, shows the present-day value
of various insurance companies’ shares, one company paying a dividend
of 1 00 per cent.
It will be seen that Insurance Company Shares are among the great
dividend and bonus-paying investments. With the introduction of
Compulsory and new forms of insurance and under progressive manage-
ment, the dividend of this Society would compare favorably with the
dividends paid by older institutions. The Directors, therefore, recom-
mend the immediate purchase of the shares of the National Assurance
Society of New South Wales, Ltd., by filling in the Form of Application
which is below.
FORMATION EXPENSES.
The whole of the expenses of the formation and registration of the Society
and issue of Prospectus is being paid by the Promoter, who is also providing
funds to cover the initial expenses of the organisation and establishment of the
Society.
CONTRACTS.
The following contracts have been entered into in connection with the Society:
.1. Agreement dated the third day of September, 1929, made between the
Society of the one part and James Brown Renwick, Underwriter, of the other part.
2. Agreement dated the third day of September, 1929, made between the
Society of the one part and James Brown Renwick of the other part.
3. Agreement dated the first day of July, 1929, made between William Nelson
Stone and others of the first part, Edward John Whitehead of the second part,
and James Brown Renwick of the third part.
Copies of these Agreements, together with copies of the Memorandum and
Articles of Association, may be inspected at the office of the Solicitors to the
Society, and at the Society’s office.
The Society has been incorporated in accordance with the ruleis of the Sydney
Stock Exchange. Application will be made to have the Society’s Shares listed in
due course on the Stock Exchanges of the various capital cities of the Common-
wealth.
Brokerage will be paid by the Society to members of the Stock Exchanges.
MINIMUM SUBSCRIPTION AND ALLOTMENT.
. The minimum subscription on which Directors may proceed to allotment is
ten thousand shares, and where no allotment is made the deposit will be returned in
full, and when the number of shares allotted is less than the number applied for,
the balance of the deposit will be applied towards the remaining payments.
THE NATIONAL ASSURANCE SOCIETY OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
LIMITED.
FORM OF APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
The Secretary, the National Assurance Society of N.S.W., Ltd., 9-13 Bligh Street, Sydney.
Sir i enclose herewith the sum of £ ~ being deposit of P er Share
on ’ Shares of £1 each in the abovenamed Society. 1 request you to accept the
same or any less number that may be allotted to me, and authorise you to place my name on the
Register of Members in respect of any Shares so allotted. I further agree to pay
ner Share on allotment, and the balance as and when required in calls not exceeding the sum of
1 per Share at not less frequent intervals than one month, and to be bound by the
Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Society.
Name in full : .
Address in full
(Mr., Mrs. or Miss.)
Description or Occupation
Signature
Date


More Burdens
to Carry
Many concerns are falling by
the way, broken by high costs
and oppressive taxes.
Here’s a big co. that will
not pay even its unsecured
creditors 5/- in the £. The
pref. shareholders will lose
every penny.
Are you a shareholder? Have
you an insurance policy ? Do
companies owe you money ?
Don’t lose your capital. Keep
yourself informed.
Th e leading Australian
authority on all These matters
is
“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY.”
SEPT. NUMBER NOW ON SALE
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM,
22/C. From Newsagents, or Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
Invent ous.—Have you an idea worth patenting!
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagb
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
He ❖ ❖ ❖
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
% ❖ Hi
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
It cannot be denied that Pioneer Wood Pipe has
magnificently carried out all the claims made for it.
On many important installations it has proved its
■outstanding efficiency. As a conduit for any form
of liquid conveyance, Pioneer Wood Pipe has shown,
under actual service conditions, that it can stand
up to the hardest usage with absolutely satisfactory
results.' Cheap in cost, non-corrosive and unaffected
by extremes of climate. Write for illustrated data
book —free on request. The Australian IVood Pipe
Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge),
Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; and at Footscray, Victoria.
—Advt.
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradieator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. Advt.
WIRE ROPES —AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivauts’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
O
YG
3 o. On
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
id
V. \w
J-Swift & Company Australasian Agents. 26'30 Clarence St., Sydney T 3
Recognise Your Duty and Appoint a Reliable Executor
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS & AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED
(The Pioneer Trustee Company of Australia)
412 Collins Street, Melbourne,
is specially qualified to act as your Executor and Trustee.
Its experience of over 50 years is ample assurance that it will manage your affairs to the best
advantage. Unlike an individual the Company is permanent, and its Capital and Assets are
available "for the protection of Clients’ interests.
DIRECTORS: Sir John Grice (Chairman), Sir J. H. MacFarland, M.A., DL.D. (Vice-Chairman),
R. 0. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, Alexander Stewart, J. Foidyce.
Empowered by Special Acts of Parliament to operate in the States
of New South Wales and Victoria.
CHAS. R. SMTBERT. General Manager V. G. WATSON.
Guaranteed by the manufacturers to
go further, last longer and uniformly
give better results than any other
paint made.—“B.P.”
"KEEPS ON KEEPING ONI”
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
g»
S^Yf
iliilif
3
W 1"
.-AV
/>
wear and tear in these days of mechanical
improvements, many of which affect costs.
It was because portion of the equipment
has become out-of-date that special provision
for replacement was made out of the writing
up of share values, already referred to.
. For the Hume cos., and others in the
pipe business, earnings largely depend upon
Government loan expenditure, and circum-
stances have recently compelled curtailment.
To what extent, if any, the current year's
operations are likely to be affected remains
to be seen. Past experience, the board says,
shows that such conditions do not materially
affect the co.’s business. But it is doubtful
whether the past can be accepted as a reli-
able guide to the future in this respect. Also
competition threatens to become keener.
A couple of months ago the price of the
scrip eased from 20s, Bd. to 17s. 9d., but
later recovered and is now around 21s. 2d.
After allowing for the final div. the return
at the latter figure is £7 16s. 9d. per cent,
on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
Standard Insurance Co. (Maoriland).
To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1919.. 32,654 16f p.c.= 12,500 20,154 214,951
Reserves capitalised, £25,000 .. 189,951
1920.. 39,803 13J p.c.= 13,750 26,053 216,004
1921.. 43,086 15 „ „ 15,000 28,086 244,090
1922.. 36,199 15 ~ ~ 15,000 21,199 265,289
Taxation reserve taken in . . 10,000 275,289
1923.. 44,813 174 p.c.=: 17,500 27,313 302,602
1924.. 46,097 224 „ ~22,500 23,597 326,199
Reserves capitalised, £50.000 . . 276,199
1925.. 50,419 15 p.c.= 22,500 27,919 304,118
1926.. 56,254 16$ „ ~ 25,000 31,254 335,372
1927.. 65,280 165,, ~25,000 40,280 375,652
Reserves capitalised, £50,000 . . 325,652
1928.. 46,301 121 p.c.= 25,000 21,301 346,953
1929.. 55,570 „„ 25,000 7 „ n7n o 7d n9 o
Provident fund, £3500 .. f 7 ’ U7U 374,023
This co. —it is Dunedin __ controlled —has
been accepting fire and marine risks for the
past 56 years. Early in its career it singed
its fingers in the scramble to write American
and Russian business. Then it abandoned
foreign fields, and has since confined activi-
ties to Australia and the Dominion. On the
whole it has been a cautious underwriter and
a successful one. The board’s policy has
been to build up strength. When gift
giving commenced 10 years ago the lay-by
amounted to nearly three times paid capital.
Since then £150,000 of the accumulated pro-
fits, equal to 12s. 6d. per share, has been
capitalized, making the 200,000 £5 shares
paid to 20s. each. So without putting any
new money into the business shareholders are
now receiving twice as much in dividends
as they did in 1919. Since then interest,
rents, etc., have followed closely on the heels
of dividend distributions ; thus practically the
whole of the underwriting surpluses have
been available to swell investments, and, of
course, the returns therefrom. Last year’s
interest on investments, etc. (£25,770, up
£1413), was actually £770 more than the
12i p.c. div. called for. Thus, after paying
the div. and sending £3500 to the provident
fund, nearly half the year’s profit was sent
to reserves, raising the heap 87 p.c. higher
than paid capital.
That and the continued expansion of the
business puts a lot of brightness into the
future for the scrip. Here are underwriting
performances over a long period:—
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895.. £49,004 £32,600 £15,033 66.5 p.c. 30.7 p.c.
1900.. 55,475 29,830 15,285 53.8 „ 27.6,,
1905.. 54,246 29,399 18,011 54.2 „ 33.2 „
1910.. 73,370 36,593 23,760 49.9 „ 32.4 ~
1915.. 127,081 56,947 43,675 44.8 „ 34.3 „
1920.. 165,054 73,331 70,200 44.4 „ 42.5 „
1925.. 210,926 96.978 82,934 45.9 „ 39.3 „
1926.. 219,509 104,037 85,350 47.4 „ 38.9 „
1927.. 292,719 159,571 91,056 54.5 „ 31.1 „
1928.. 297,024 181,900 93,955 61.2 „ 31.3 „
1929.. 335,472 211,692 94,079 63.1 „ 28.0 „
Last year an additional £38,448 of net pre-
miums was gathered at an extra cost of
only £124. The expense rate, which dropped
back 31 points, touched its lowest level since
the beginning of this century; it has been
worked down from 45.3 p.c. in 1921. A
very creditable performance, all things con-
sidered. But the loss experience—payments
to policy-holders were £29,792 heavier than
the previous year’s—was the worst since the
end of last century. So the underwriting
profit (£29.701) benefited by only £7731,
reaching 8.9 p.c. of the net premiums com-
pared with 7.4, 14.4, 13.7 and 14.7 p.c. back
to 1925. The heavy fire losses in Maori-
land and Australia during the last couple
of years, due largely to carelessness, are
causing underwriters to look hard at certain
classes of risks, especially those of people
who make a hobby of carelessness.
Policy-holders are well protected. At the
close of last accounts they could see net
tangible assets equal to 171 p.c. of the year’s
net premiums, and that was 21 p.c. (over
£70,000) in excess of what is usually looked
for. Assets are in this form :
1914. 1926. 1928. 1929.
Mortgages . . £115,965 £36,750 £35,870 £31,735
Debentures .. 58,719 77,889 95,027 95,050
Wav Loan . . 270,950 277,750 304,540
Premises . . 17,318 62,158 112,032 119,410
Cash, etc. . . 47,522 90,158 96,967 111,046
If more is wanted there is another £BOO,OOO
of uncalled capital. Most of last year’s sur-
plus earnings went into Government securi-
ties, up £26,790; they are in at par, and
represent 46 p.c. of the balance-sheet total.
During the year a freehold was bought in
Christchurch, and £7378 was added to the
premises item. Like most other concerns of
the kind Standard is getting out of the mort-
gages business as speedily as commitments
will allow.
The share market, impressed by the co.’s
strong position and its prospects, heavily
discounts the future by paying 675. for the
scrip, which has a net tangible backing of
575. sd. The immediate return at the current
price is only 3.7 on a 12$ p.c. div basis.
National Assurance Society.
The National Assurance Society of N. S.
Wales, Ltd., is on the stocks in Sydney with
a nominal capital of £1,000,000 in pound
shares, of which 100,000 are offered. The
promoter takes £lO,OOO in paids as part
consideration for organising the society
and for the retention of his services. The
other 890,000 shares are to be held in reserve.
What the other part of the promoter’s con-
sideration amounts to, and for what period
and at what salary his services have been
retained, is not made clear in the prospectus.
The scheme is an ambitious one, embracing
all classes of insurance, the business of a
reversionary co. and a trustee co. The case
for success, as the prospectus presents it,
rests largely upon the call for new forms of
insurance. Given this new demand (the
promoter believes that insurance of one kind
or another may become Compulsory), and
with prudent and progressive management,
it is claimed that the society would have
every bit as good a chance as older, and
highly prosperous institutions.
As far as life assurance is concerned it is
almost impossible for a new co. to show any
profit at all for some years. The experience
of most of the younger offices now in the
field lias been far from happy. Jn. the . fire,
marine and accident business competition is
very keen, and at the moment many under-
writers are experiencing the heaviest propor-
tion of losses since the end of last century.
The marine business is unsatisfactory, and
has been so for some years. All that can be
said for certain is that a new co. will Rave
a hard row to hoe. Its success or other-
wise, will. largely depend on management.
Brilliant ideas are always liable to make a
fortune for somebody.
On the board are J. B. Rehwick (manag-
ing director), W. Y. Armstrong, W. N.
Stone and Dr. E. C. Winston.
Incidentally, the prospectus quotes the
“Wild Cat”. Monthly. But what the
Monthly said on that occasion—in the
words quoted—was said not of fire insurance
cos. generally, but of “half a dozen of the
admittedly-very successful ones.” The figures
printed show what great thing these offices
can do when they grow up; but, as the
Monthly lias also pointed out, the infant
mortality among them is tremendous.
The Roma Oil Crash.
Queensland oil stocks crashed last week
on the announcement that the Australian
Roma Oil Co. had bottomed on granite, and
that Roma Dome had done the same. The
depression was sealed by the almost simul-
taneous appearance of two reports from
experts, both of which give little hope of
oil being found in the Roma area in payable
quantities. The first, by Dr. Woolnough,
Commonwealth oil expert, advises the aban-
donment of the Roma district and a search
further north towards Central Queensland,
where the formations are much more favor-
able and lie at shallower depths. In his
opinion operations at Hospital Hill, Roma,
have revealed the existence of an important
gas field, but have proved fairly conclusively
that the small quantities of light oil obtained
along with the gas are not likely to have
been, derived from a local oil reservoir of
considerable dimensions. The second report
comes from K. Burggraf, Elbof’s represen-
tative in Australia, who has beeD making a
geophysical survey of the Queensland. Roma
Oil and Roma Oil No. 1 areas. He endorses
Dr. Woolnough’s opinion, and adds (1) that
there is abundant evidence that the lower
Walloons at Roma are neither oil-producers
nor suitable, as carriers of oil to favorable
structures, and (2) that if oil exists at Hos-
pital Hill it could only be tapped at such
great depth that it could not be technically
reached by methods at-present known. The
origin of the wet gas at Roma has not yet
been established ; the Elbof people say they
are certain that it does not come from the
lower Walloons. The report strongly advises
the cos. concerned to cut their losses before
funds are exhausted and look , elsewhere.
Notwithstanding these reports, State Geo-
logist Ball has protested to the Minister for
Mines against a policy of abandonment. He
is not prepared to wholly accept the con-
clusions of the geophysicists.
Roma Oil Corp. has suspended operations
and dispensed with the whole of its staff,
save that on the gas plant. It has a paid
capital of £87,432 in pound shares. These
sold at £7 3s. in January last; they had eased
to 265. at the end of last month, and
dropped to 15s. following the publication of
the experts’ reports.
Most who have supported oil-prospecting
operations at Roma seem to be now disin-
clined to continue, and many cos. will be
unable to pursue the search elsewhere for
lack of funds.
Broughton Edge, the English geophysical
survey expert, is now on an electrical pros-
pecting campaign at Moonta (S.A.). Those
in charge consider local conditions ideal
Certainly surface prospecting in the neigh-
borhood has been difficult, because none of
the lodes outcrop, being covered with a thick
mantle of travertine limestone. Diamond
drilling has been of comparatively little use
because of the initial difficulty of knowing
where to drill; and, anyhow, the lode chan-
nels traversing the felspar porphyry are often
unproductive for a long way, so the chances
of hitting an oreshoot were always against
the drill.
The comparatively high price of copper
has, nevertheless, kept prospectors scouting
around the district; about 40 men are at
work in various parts. At the Wild Dog
a small gravity treatment plant will come
into operation shortly.
The Moonta Copper Recovery Co., which
is leaching the tailing dumps, recently paid
a is. div., the first since the formation of
the co. in 1925.
.I* * *
Mt. Biscliofll (Tas.) co. was badly hit by
the drop in prices last year. The mill treated
41,000 tons ore for 307 tons of oxide, or a
recovery of 0.'53 p.c. metallic tin. Total
income was approximately £lOO,OOO, but the
net result was a loss of £230. The future
of Bischoff hinges on the extent of the’
alluvial; the shallow wash being treated at
present averages about 21b. per e. yd. Bould-
ers are a great trouble.
* iji * *
Sand Queen-Gladsome Gold Mines (W.A.)
may go off this season. An option has been
taken by a Sydney man on behalf of a
Yankee buyer, and should it be exercised
the co. will do well. Some time ago a Perth-
Melbourne co. controlled by Gordon Lyon,
F. A. Moss, C. de Bernales and others took
this hyphenated venture off the State Govern-
ment’s hands. A fair-sized shoot was exposed
in the bottom workings, and the battery
was started. High costs and lack of work-
ing capital, however, soon put the co. on the
call list, and a little later it closed down.
* :!c # *
Boulder Perseverance management (W.A.)
. announces that the rich values probed by the
diamond drill earlier in the year at a depth of
1600 feet have been- confirmed by a crosscut.
Telluride ore worth ounces per ton over a
width of from 10ft. to 12ft. has been ex-
posed and driven on a short distance; but
in view of the extremely patchy nature of
the same lode at 1300 ft. the public is offici-
ally advised to draw no conclusions as to the
extent of the 1600 ft. find until more work
has been done. Meanwhile the market valua-
tion of the property has been doubled as a
result of the development.
* * * *
Adelaide boomsters are again recommend-
ing Westonia and Holleton (W.A.). Thus
far insufficient work has been done to enable
one to judge the merits of most of the small
shows; but investors need to be on their
guard, because a number of entirely hope-
less shows in these districts have been kept
alive with the one purpose of unloading
shares at favorable opportunties. The
swindle has been going on for years.
* * * *
Chalong Tin, formed in Melbourne in
January last, has decided to voluntarily put
the shutters up. The co. was floated by
Commercial and General Investment Trust
Pty. to take over certain properties near
Sichon, Southern Siam, in which Asia Amal-
gamated Tin Syndicate was interested. The
ground was estimated to contain 11,656,220
yards of 16.3840 z. dirt, and 1200 acres on
which 36 bores gave an average of 13oz.
The boring was done by E. T. Anderson and
W. F. Mackenzie, and the property was
reckoned Wrth £824,000 with tin at £220;
but it was remarked in these columns at the
time that these estimates were better than
anything then being actually got in the
neighborhood. There is a surplus, and a
final divvy will be handed out, but no hint is
given as to the amount. The reason given
for the closing down is that the “principals
of the Commercial and General Investment
Trust left Melbourne, and the properties
were retained by Asia Amalgamated Tin
Syndicate.” There should be an interesting
story somewhere.
* * * =5
Peninsula Tin, formed in Melbourne in
1926 as a reconstruction of Ban Na San,
recently increased its issued capital to
£201,000 by raising the face value of the
scrip from 20s. to 30s. The £67,000 thus
provided was wanted to finance the extra
cost of the new dredge, which set in at the
close of last month. W. F. Mackenzie
estimated the property to contain eight
million cubic yards of 17oz. dirt, with an
average depth of 25ft. An adjoining area,
held under E.P.L., is reported to average
16oz. per yard over the 30 acres tested.
The vendors, who worked the property with
gravel pumps for some time, averaged 1.771 b.
for 63,000 yards put through. The boring
of the co.’s other area at Bok Cham, sus-
pended in March last, is soon to be recom-
menced.
* * * *
Though the tin dredging outlook in
Malaya is said to be gloomy, most of the
sounder Australian cos. there are doing
fairly well. Amongst them is Kuala Kam-
par Tin, an amalgamation of Malim Nawar
South, Tanjong Tualong and Kuala Ivampar,
which netted £105,291 for the 91 months to
March 31. Three divs. totalling Is. 2d. per
share absorbed £68,250, leaving £37,041 co
go forward. The 1579 tons of ore recovered
realised, £212,957, and costs were kept down
to 3.7*2d. per c.y. Paid capital is £585,000
in 10s. shares.
* * :!: *
Two new Australian dredges set in on
Malayan fields early in September. These
were Rangeng and Peninsula, both Mel-
bourne floats. Rangeng dug IS,OOO yards
for the fortnight and recovered a ton and. a
half of t.o. in the opening out process.
Peninsula had a full run of 309 hours, and
turned over 42,000 yards for 10 tons of ore.
an average of .531 b. per yard. Origin:
boring estimates were over a pound a yard,
but it is early yet to make comparisons.


Porsfer’s Steel Products
m
ill
*-' ■&./' ‘ (t" W*
mi
■
wm
The Interior can he fitted with
Shelves, Dividers, etc. The
surfaces are finished in olive-
green enamel, oven baked,
ensuring absolute freedom from
rust. These cabinets should
be an acquisition to any room.
FORSTER’S ADJUSTABLE STEEL SHELVING
STRONGER THAN WOOD
HANDSOME AND BUSINESSLIKE
Forster’s Steel Shelving is proving ideal equipment in
Factories, Wholesale and Retail Stores,
Motor Supply Houses, Banks, Libraries,
Hospitals, Book Shops, Music Shops,
Offices and Strongrooms.
Forster’s Adjustable Steel Shelving is adaptable to the storage of any line of business,
and will last indefinitely. Suggestions, drawings, quotations on request.
Seven parts make endless combinations to suit present and future needs as storage
alters or space is changed. It can be moved as easily as other furniture and be
adjusted as required. We keep a wide range of sizes in stock.
Saves space, time, loss from fires, pests, taint.
'
**?!
—it.
MARY ANN STREET, ULTIMO, SYDNEY.
’Phone: M 4247 (3 lines).
THE SUNSHINE AUTO HEADER
Self
Propelled
1
tin*
‘-■*y-m- m
tt m ~ m ' -w
r~ - “•
ijilj
imUtLimpm
mmmm
Iflkijh, , - ;
.
ai
mkmm
mwm
Mmsmmm
mmmm
12ft.
Cut
With a crew of two men, one to drive and one to tend the bagging, the Auto Header will harvest 40 acres in a day, on a petrol
consumption of half a gallon to the acre.
The Auto Header is renowned for its ability to harvest storm-flattened and thistle-infested crops.
The 4-cylinder engine is available for general belt work on the farm. When fitted with feed table and straw elevator, the Auto Header
makes a very efficient stationary thrasher.
Write for illustrated descriptive catalogue and particulars of price and terms to —
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE.
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES:
664 Bourke Street West, MELBOURNE.
27-39 George Street West, SYDNEY.
95-97 North Terrace, ADELAIDE.
Corner Murray and King Streets, PERTH.
H. V. McKay (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, SOUTH BRISBANE.


WOOL PROFITS
available to the Public
A LIMITED ISSUE OF 50,000 FIRST ORDINARY SHARES.
(Payable 2/6 on application, 2/6 on allotment and balance in calls
not exceeding 2/6 at intervals of not less than one month).
An existing organisation now permits the General Public to share
in the profits of the marketing of Australia’s Wool*
IN 1928, the gross profits of six Australian wool-
broking firms amounted to more than £3,000,000
—and in that year prominent graziers formed the
Australian Wool Brokers and Produce Company Ltd,,
in order to enable associated graziers to share in
those very large returns.
To-day , this organisation has long passed the
experimental stage and is a soundly based success.
More than two hundred well known graziers, owning
approximately a million head of sheep, are included
in the Company's list of'Shareholders, and wool and
produce stores and showrooms are functioning in full.
Sufficient business to show a profit for the next twelve
months is assured from shareholders alone .
In order to finance its rapidly growing operations,
the Company now offers to the public the opportunity
of participating in its success.
The conditions of this investment apply mainly
to the marketing of the wool produce. Every year a
huge clip of Australian wool must be marketed, and
this operation may be said to be a continuous process
that is absolutely independent of fluctuations in wool
prices and of weather conditions. What wool is
grown MUST be sold.
Unaffected by labour troubles and practically
free from capital outlay, other than secured loans
against wool and produce pending sale, the Company
has no heavy overhead charges, and has already a
firm standing in a market where up to the present
but ten firms have actually controlled a turnover of
over £40,000,000 per annum I Wool broking of the
past shows a 100 per cent . record of SAFE, SURE
PROFITS .
With the interests of graziers, broker and public inter-
laced into one organisation, future profits are auto-
matically assured ♦
Forms for Share Applications, and Prospectus,
will be forwarded on application to any regis-
tered Stock-broker on the Stock Exchange, or
direct to :
AUSTRALIAN WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE CO. Ltd.
McKinney House :: :: :: 10 O’Connell Street, Sydney
NOMINAL CAPITAL , £300,000
Divided into 300,000 Shares of £1 each
270,000 FIRST ORDINARY SHARES. These Shares rank
equally with the Second Ordinary Shares up to 10 per cent,
per annum Dividends on the paid-up Capital.
29,850 Second Ordinary Shares. (Of these Shares, approximately 19,000
have been applied for and allotted. The balance are under option
to the holders of the 150 Deferred Shares —these Shares were allotted
to the original founder of the Company—and are the only Shares
issued other than for cash).
150 Deferred Shares. These Shares do not participate in any Dividend
until the First and Second Ordinary Shares are paid 10 per cent, on
their paid-up Capital.
In the distribution of assets of the Company all shares rank equally.
50,000 First Ordinary Shares are now offered to the Public.
(Profits in excess of 10 per cent. after customary provision for contingencies,
etc., go to a Special Reserve for distribution in terms of Prospectus).
BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
The Hon. G. R. W. McDonald, m.1.c., Sydney (Chairman)
Hugh F. Carter, Grazier, Barbigal Station, Dubbo
Thomas Crawford, Grazier, Mayfield, Orange
Thomas F. Cannon, late Grazier and Wool and Produce Merchant,
Summer Hill, Sydney
John A. Saleh, General Manager and Director, 10 O'Connell
Street, Sydney
BANKERS:
Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Ltd., and
The Bank of New South Wales, Sydney
SOLICITORS :
John A. K. Shaw, Lewis & Co., Cathcart House,
11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney
AUDITORS:
Harry A. Beech, a.i.c.a., a.f.i.a., a.a.i.s., a.c.i.s. (Eng),
Belmont Buildings, 15 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
ft
fir
V'
%
i \
'i r Rx a
!€? :$
y
AUSTRALIAN WOOL BROKERS
and PRODUCE CO. LTD.
Registered Offices: —McKinney House, 10 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
COUPON
Please forward Prospectus
and full particulars of
Australian Wool Brokers and
Produce Co. Ltd.
NAME
ADDRESS
S.B. 25/9/’29


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Pisk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
VICHY
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled —Insist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney, j
PEAPES
clothe men AND their sons.
The harmony which means so
much in good dressing is
simply achieved at PEAPES,
because there a man may
obtain all his needs, selecting
tones and designs which blend
perfectly in an ideal combina-
tion of quiet distinction.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
A BORIGIN
ALITIES
“E.S.”: Larry was a nark who would
chuck up a 'job at a minute’s notice if
things didn’t suit him; but his manner of
leaving squatter Jumbuck made him famous.
The wool-king, who was fat and lazy, was
taking his rouseabout along a back fence
in a buggy, to show him some, fencing that
he wanted done. Here and there he pulled
up in the shade while Larry did some tem-
porary repairs. Many of the breaks were
difficult to mend without help, but Larry
SALTBUSH COMPLIMENTS.
BULLOCKY: “Come on, Thundercloud—get a move on out of that!"
JACKY : “Huh! You no plurry flash o’ lightning yourself."
said nothing until they came to a washaway
that had to be brushed. Here Mr. Jum-
buck got out and spread a rug for himself
under a tree. Larry worked till he noticed
that the big man was asleep. Then he
got quietly into the buggy and drove off.
When Jumbuck reached home weary and
almost apoplectic from a 10-mile walk, the
base deserter was making tracks across
country with bluey up.
* * * *
“Brolga”: Unorthodox, but binding, was
the marriage of two colored station-hands
back of Bourke. They wanted the clergy-
man, some 80 miles distant, to perform the
ceremony. The boss, fearing they wouldn’t
come back, offered to do the job himself,
which he did, solemnly reading the poems of
Henry Lawson while his wife played popular
airs on the piano. The pair lived in domestic
harmony longer than many church-blessed
whites.
* * * *
“Jayayee”: Now Sulieman, who was a
very wise man, and his son Abselim, who was
almost as wise, disputed greatly as to who
ruled the house, the man or the woman. So
Sulieman said: “Go thou forth with a team
of horses and a crate of roosters, and when
thou shalt find the woman the
master of the house thou shalt
give her a rooster, and when the
man is the master thou shalt
give him a horse.” And Abselim
set forth on his journey, and io,
before long he had only one
rooster left. And he came to
a house, and the woman opened
the door. Abselim said: “Who
rules this house?” And she
said: “My husband.” “Then,”
sqid Abselim, “I would have
speech with him.” So the ; hus-
band came forth, arid Abselim
said: “Who rules this house?”
And the man answered : “Truly,
it is I who rule, this house..”
And Abselim said: “Thou aft
the owner of one of my horses;
take thou tliy choice.” And the
main said: “I like this grey, I
will choose it.” But the man’s
wife said unto him: “Come
here a moment, I would have a
word with thee.” And when the
man returned he said: “On
second thoughts I will have the
black one instead.” And Abse-
lim said. “Not on your life. You
will take the blanky rooster.”
“Cadonga”: Mad Mick was a queer cus-
tomer who had been a hatter and had
come back to civilisation because, whilst
living in seclusion, he had been chased by
a huge bunyip wearing green spectacles. He
lived on his wits, but occasionally took a
casual job, and as soon as he had cashed his
cheque got drunk at Casey’s Hotel. One
of his peculiarities was to exhibit a pro-
found aversion to drink after lie had slept
off the results of a bout. No temperance
reformer was ever so fierce in his denuncia-
tion of the booze as Mick on such occasions.
One day he came into the township with a
cheque, and after tippling all day he went
to sleep under the table in the bar parlor,
and was accidentally locked in at closing-time.
At about 10 p.m. he woke up- and found the
publican .about to serve two- customers by
candle-light. ' Mick, from the floor, scared
the senses out of this trio by suddenly ex-
claiming: “Drinkin’? Drinkin’, are yez?
And after hours, too! What’ll the sergeant
be sayin’ about this?” One of the customers
was a candidate for Parliament, and he
saw his chances of election blighted by a
prosecution under the Liquor Act, so as soon
as he got over liis shock he bent down and
addressed Mick in a conciliatory tone. “Look
here!” he began. “If I was to put a ten-
bob note over each of your eyes you wouldn’t
be able to see, would you, Mick?” “That’s
right,” replied Mick thoughtfully. And then
with a cunning leer, he continued, “And if
yer was ter put a five-quid note in me mouth
I wouldn’t be able ter talk.”
“Te Kurri”: Sheep-dog trials are now out
of touch with working conditions. The wide
working dogs that pass back and forward
on a big range or stretch of timbered coun-
try until all the small outlying lots are
gradually driven to a common centre are
more often than not nearly useless to drive
the same mob along a road, across a swamp
or through a gateway. For such work
another dog is used, usually the owner of
a good honest bark. The latter dog is quite
as necessary as the other sort, and drives
most of the sheep that are moving across
Australia; but the show-ring people will have
none of him. The show dog must run quiet
AN UNSOLICITED TESTIMONIAL.
TRIBAL TATTOO ARTIST: “Yes, you’ll find, my designs very popular with the men. Why,
the husband of the last girl I decorated, was so taken with the pattern that he
stretched her hide over the mouth of his war-drum."
and wide. The most useful dog is one that
can do both sorts, mustering a paddock or
working-forward and back on a mob, and
a class for such dogs should be included in
the show schedules.
,T; , * * *
“H.1.M.”: When Captain Phillip wrote
-home about a bird as large as an ostrich
but “differing from an ostrich or emu, he
was trying; to describe an emu. The first
emu was killed about two miles from Sydney
vCove ’and Lieut. Watts sketched it; the
plate and accompanying text in Phillip’s
“Voyage” are its memorial. There it is
described as the “New Holland cassowary,
standing higher on its legs and having the
neck longer than the common cassowary.”
A popular natural history published a few
years later said: “The emu of N. S. Wales
has by some been thought to resemble the
emu of India.” Phillip’s letter was written
when the settlement of Sydney Cove was
little over three months old; he had not
seen the bird. He was writing to his boss,
the Minister, and not to Banks or a learned
society. Substitute “cassowary” for “emu”
and we have a “bird as large as an ostrich
differing from the ostrich and sasso-
wary,” which wasn’t a bad shot for a harried
sea-captain to make.
\ sic * '-i:
<7v “Bill Y”: In the old blade-shearing days
on the Barwon, a well-known
identity was Scramble, the
inventor of an entirely new
sport. He would stealthily
approach a horse from the
rear, crouching on hands and
knees, and then, suddenly
throwing his body prone on
the ground, would sink his
teeth into the hind pastern
of the animal. The horse,
naturally, would lash out
like a fury, but Scramble’s
head was never in the way.
Scramble declared that he
learned the trick when a boy
by practising on a mule,
after which anything else on hooves was
merely child’s play.
“Spadger”: Where the Dalgety and Tumut
shires merge on the road to the Yarrango-
billy Caves is a gate, always open, which
is flanked on each side by two low stone
kennels, beside which two sheep-dogs are
chained. The poor animals rush out and
bark savagely at passing cars, and doubtless
do their lonely duty when stock try to get
through the gate, but one has an unpleasant
feeling that their ferocity might be due to
insufficient feeding. There is no house in
view of the road for miles, and it’s not
always hard to forget such manacled slaves
of man when they are Out of sight and
hearing.
“Wang”: “Ants an’ their love of booze
have caused a lot of trouble,” said Old Dan
meditatively. “I remember once I wus board-
in’ next door to an ole bloke called ‘Stumpy’
Johnson, ’count of havin’ a wooden stump
fer a leg. Me and Stumpy wus great cobbers.
One evenin’ he took sudden ill, and his missus
shoved him straight to bed. Th’ follerin’
night I wus around at Stumpy’s place t’
see him, an’ found him still in bed. I sat
down be th’ fire, yarnin’ to his missus.
Stumpy’s wooden leg is standin’ in a corner
near th’ fireplace, and after a little while I
notices Mrs. Stumpy lookin’ at it sorter hard.
I has a look, too, an’ sees a lotter little
black ants crawlin’ about on th’ top of
tb’ stump. Mrs. Stumpy gets up an’ starts
to examine it. I tries t’ tell her th’ ants
is not th’ sort to do any damage; but she
don’t take no notice of me. She gives a
sorter satisfied ‘Arh!’ lifts orf tli’ bit of
packin’ on tli’ top of th’ stump an’ drags
out a bottle three-parts full o’ rum. Tli’
cork’s come out somehow, an’ th’ top of
Stumpy’s timber leg is covered with ants.
That wus th’ end of my little evenin’s with
pore old Stumpy.
sjs Hi
“Memo”: Here’s a case for Darwinian
evolutionists to ponder over. I was given a
pup from a collie bitch that was very clever
with sheep, took the little creature home
and promptly forgot all about him. A few
days ago he broke the cord with which he
was tied up and proceeded to round up
about 100 wethers just off shears. He worked
around them like any old-timer and never
stopped till he got them in a proper mob ;
then he fell, exhausted, on the ground beside
them. Who says acquired characteristics
can’t be inherited?
* * * *
“C. Coral”: In Torres Strait, where the
native churchwardens are on the preaching
list, one old fellow noted for his long-winded
orations had been put on the roster as
infrequently as could decently be arranged.
When Chi-istmas came, however, it was felt
that he might be given a chance to “make
sermon” after a lengthy spell, and he climbed
into the pulpit and adjusted his glasses.
Gazing down on the rows of dusky listeners,
he cleared his throat. “Long time now I
never preach; long time now I got no
channis [chance] to tell you some good
word and something about you’self. But
now to-night I got channis; I going preach
till you go sleep, and I going preach till
you all wake up again !” And he did —four
hours by the clock before the service con-
cluded !
:;•-***
“Yarri” : The boundary-rider in the dust-
storm regions of the West Darling has gener-
ally got a riddle or two for the weather
oracle. One remarkable thing on the run is
that a single wire, a foot or so off the ground,
will cause a bank of sand to gather till
the wire, and even the whole fence, is cov-
ered. In one place two fences, one built on
top of the other, had been buried. “That
used to be level ground where that ridge
is now,” said the boundary man. On an-
other line on the same run several chains
of fencing were periodically left flat on the
ground, from 18in. to 20in. of soil having
been blown away from underneath. In other
parts, where the ground was hard, the earth
around the posts was whisked out by strong
winds, and the uprights left toppling.
(Continued on page 25.)
A MALLEE OPTIMIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It’s six to four we get no rain an ten to
one we do,
There’s fifty chances that we’ll lose an one
of pullin’ through.
But you’ll be happy, after all, as long as
you remember
The year’ll last a long time yet —it don t
end till December.
You might ’ave gambled all you’ve got upon
this season’s crop, _ 5
And then ’ave seen your wheat wilt off an
watched the prices drop.
You’ve turned ’praps then an’ called yourself
a fool for cornin’ here,
But just say over once or twice, “Well, wot
about next year?”
The sand has blocked your roadway up an’
smothered all your fence,
But still the Council’s only young, an’ old
age teaches sense.
An’, anyhow, the wind may come an’ blow
the stuff away.
Don’t let a bit o’ sand like that disturb you
for a day.
Your stock have picked the stubble bare;
your water’s given out,
An’ starvin’ sheep pollute the air by dyiu’
round about.
The Board is bangin’ on your heels an’
drivin’ you stone mad.
But calm yourself an’ say : “Ah, well! It
might be twice as bad.”
It’s six to four it doesn’t rain, an’ ten to
one it will;
It’s even money you go broke to tramp the
roads—but still
When up in Heaven the angels scan an’
check your final tally
Across your card they’ll write : “Front seat
—he stuck it in the Malice.”
VICTORIA.
P. T. FINDLAY.


The Highest Standard
of Service
is assured from tyres by
DUNLOP
Features always associated
with these high quality
sturdy tyres are outstand-
ing mileage . • . resiliency
.. reliability .. . traction ..
ensuring to users of Dunlop
value and service that is
unsurpassed.
* * *
Who travels on Dunlop
travels well l
* *
.4
8000 GARAGES STOCK THEM
u
B
LO
D
U
N
COVER
DUNLOP
PERFECT
TYRE
DUNLOp
sy///
m.
#*' Mi'
nti'u
m
l
il
ga
•I
ft
*
<IHOD dOT^^
-v, <►
4
2
T


We Unload Stock
promptly on arrival, day or night, handle them
carefully, class them skilfully, value them accurately
and sell them at top market figures.
WINCHGOMBE,CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
Homebush Yards, Enoggera Yards,
Sydney, Brisbane.
Truck sheep, lambs, cattle, calves, pigs, to
Winchcombe, Carson.
Ofiices: Winchcombe House, Bridge Street, Sydney;
and 99-101 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
They Satisfy
because they are made from 100
per cent, pure Virginia tobacco,
thoroughly matured. “Greys”
have a reputation they cannot
afford to lose; they are therefore
consistent in their perfect quality.
“Greys” protect your palate and
leave no after taste. Let your
next smoke be a GREYS.
CESS;
m
&2J
*THE GREYS
SIZEoTWO
SILK CUT VIRGINIA.
ORAP
1® for <J)dL CIGARETTES 2® for 1/®
Of course you
know “Greys
Heavyweights”
are now 1/- for
10; 2/- for 20.
BEFORE tV SNOW
GOES -
GOTO iJ
(MS
Jk GOVT TOURIST BUREAU
QILENS WALK-MELBOURNE
OQ M APT IN PLACf SYDUPY
WILL GLADLY APRANGL ALL DETAILS
“Rob P.”: I wonder if the fate of explorer
Ludwig Leichhardt will ever be definitely de-
termined. At a recent meeting of the Historical
Society of Queensland a paper, which, by the
way, places Mt. Abundance “in the heart of
North Queensland,” was read discounting his
murder by blacks and consigning him to
a death in the flood waters of the
Cooper River. Scattered about Queensland
are “Leichhardt’s trees,” one near Taroom,
another on the Barcoo, and a third on
Yarronvale station, 60-odd miles west of
Charleville. Although the last-named tree
isn’t historically recognised, it seems to have
been lettered by the same fist as the accredi-
ted one near Taroom. If Leichhardt did chisel
his initial on the Yarronvale vegetable the
SURE THING!
JIGGERS: “I can’t imagine what drove poor
old Smith to jump into the sea.”
JAGGERS: “Bet your life, my boy, there’s a
woman at the bottom of it.”
evidence points to the possibility that when
lie and his party met the old bloke with the
scythe they were very much east of the Cooper
and in the mulga country between the Paroo
and the W'arrego, or even east of the latter
gully, making for the starting-point, Mt.
Abundance. Anyway, one theory is as ten-
able as the other, and at this stage of
inquiry neither the mulga ridges nor the flats
along the Cooper are likely to be dispossessed
of their secret.
“Clarong”: “Yairs,” said Truthful Tom,
regarding the animal affectionately, "Jerry’s
a good dorg. About four years ago, when ’e
was only a pup, I took a job o’ drovin’ with
Sam ’Addon, an’ when we was near me old
’ome town, Wagga, I took a walk over ter
the pub. thinkin’ ter ’ave a couple o’ pints
TOO TEMPERAMENTAL.
SQUATTER: “Why d' you leave the missus, Mary?”
MARY: “Too much pfool lat one’. She clean frock longa petrol—
good pfeller! Mine clean turkey longa petrol—she squeal
likeit plurry curlew!”
an’ get back. I ’appens ter meet a,few o’ me
old cobbers, an’ maybe I stayed a. bit too
long, for Sam went on without me; so I
reckoned ter pick ’im up at Coota. I ’ops
on the train, about ’arf sensible like, an’ gets
off at Coota without me ’at, which blew out
o’ the winder on the way. I goes ter the
pub there an’ asks fer a room, when of a
sudden it strikes me like a flash o’ lightning,
that I ’ad fergotten Jerry. I knew ’e was
with me at the pub in Wagga, so I rings
up the bloke what ’ad the pub (here an’ asks
’im if ’e could see Jerry about anywhere.
‘Yes,’ says the bloke, ‘ ’e is right ’ere.’ ‘Well,
■’old ’im up ter the ’phone,’ says I, ‘That you
Jerry?’ I asks, 'an’ Jerry barks down the
’phone. ‘Well, Jerry,’ says I, ‘l’m stoppin’
at the pub in Coota, No. 4 room. Get that?’
Jerry barked again. ‘Now’ let ’im go,’ I
says ter the bloke. Then I goes an’ ’as a nip
an’ then ter bed. That was six in the after-
noon, an’ it’s 60 miles from Wagga ter Coota.
About four o’clock next mornin’ I ’ears a
dorg barkin’ at me door. I gets up, an’
there’s Jerry, ’ardly Mowin’, with me ’at
in ’is mouth.”
* * * *
“Caractacus” : One of the queerest “books”
was that made on an Upper Murray mining-
field on the occasion of the weekly visit of
the store-cart. This was driven by a new-
clium so raw that almost anything could be
put over him, and so lucky that he came
unscathed through all sorts of dangers. On
his mine trip he drove a light spring-dray
W’ith a sapling outrigger, to which was at-
tached the worst half-broken man-eating horse
in the district, and entering the township
he forded a precipitous-sided creek. His
outfit dropped over the bank down the first
declivity, on vdiich the principal difficulty
was to keep the man-eater ahead of the cart
and to gallop him up the opposite bank, mak-
ing full use of the impetus gained by the
downward slide. It was a manoeuvre requiring
nice judgment and some trust in Providence.
All miners and their women as soon as
the store-cart was sighted ceased work and
mustered near the creek brow, where bets
were laid' as to whether that day the driver
would come through or break his neck. Odds
depended on the weather, the state of the
man-eater’s temper, size of load, take-off in
doing the “drop” and the effect of the
women’s fluttering garments on the man-eater
as he emerged from the creek bottom. The
newchum always came through. I know;
I’m he.
* * * *
“F.D.R.”: About every two years white-
bait appear in Milne Bay, Eastern Papua.
There is a theory that they hail from Maori -
land. In a milky patch, a few acres in
extent, they move up the bay and ascend two
or three large fresh-water creeks. The whole
village of Waga Waga turns out in canoes,
and the natives dip cocoanut-leaf baskets
into the water and empty the swarming con-
tents into the canoes. When the canoes return
to the village all hands get busy making up
parcels of the delicacy. Banana fronds are
usually used, secured with native string. Over
smoke fires many hundreds of these bundles
are partly cured for future consumption, and
the rest provides feasts for the next few
days. Similar migrations have also been
reported from Taupota, a district 40 miles
along the n.-e. coast from Milne Bay. The
same creeks are chosen each migration as
the spawning grounds.
“Avon”: For the first 50 years after the
coming of the white man the Maori race
was definitely on the down-grade. The native
population, probably numbering well over
100,000 in the early ’fifties, had shrunk by
1895 to under 40,000. The birth-rate was
low; the infant-mortality rate very high.
And then, because
there were among
the race men of
vision and high
ideals, who de-
plo r e d the con-
dit i o n of their
people and strove
to better it, the tide
turned. The de-
crease of popula-
tion was checked,
but in other direc-
tions progress was
slow. Now, how-
ever, the fruit of'
long years of labor
by such men as
Apirana Ngata and
the late James Car-
rol is being gar-
nered. In the last
five years the
Maori population
has increased from
53,800 to 65,700, a
birth - over - death
balance at the rate
of close on per
cent, per annum.
The European rate
of increase, includ-
ing gains fr o m
migration, is only
half of that. Head-
way also has been
made in inducing the natives to farm their
land—they own over 4,000,000 acres in the
North Island alone —and the latest annual
report of the. Native Land Courts is the
most optimistic and encouraging ever pre-
sented.
* * * *
“Migrant”: An Abo. correspondent some
time ago referred to the annual flight of a
species of godwit—a small shore-frequenting
bird —from northern Maoriland to Siberia
by way of South America. Further definite
proof that these amazing distances are cov-
ered by migrating birds has been obtained
by the capture on the beach near Durban
of an Arctic tern carrying on its leg an
inscribed band which had been placed there
at Turnevik Bay, Labrador. The bird, which
died soon after capture, was a fledgling when
the band was put on it, yet it was in South
Africa four months later. The straight-line
distance between the two points is 17,000
miles.
* * sjc
“Tamornie”: Melbourne medico F. G.
Morgan told his cobbers at the Sydney con-
gress that 50' per cent, of cases where people
have been bitten by death-adders have
proved fatal. I can easily believe that, as
cases are on record where death, has occurred
20 minutes after the
bite, even where ap-
proved remedies were
applied. My experience
with the same species
of snake in New
Guinea, however, was
less dismal. In eight
years I had many
cases of adder bite to
attend to. Often
enough it was well
over half an hour be-
fore the victim arrived,
and in only one case
were there any ill-
effects. The treatment
adopted in each case
was to score the bite
well with a razor and
rub Condy’s crystals into the cuts. Then a
pickle-bottle was filled with boiling water,
emptied, and the mouth pressed over the
bite, where it was left for about 20 minutes,
the air pressure holding it tightly in place.
* * * *
“B. Sneeze”: We were sitting in Riley’s
pub, discussing grasshoppers. After the tales
•of the ’hoppers that ate a horse, the plague
which held up the transcontinental express
for seven days, and the three days’ rain of the
insects that caved in roofs and suffocated a
whole community, Bill decided to enliven the
conversation. “Up in ther jVlallee,” he
drawled between puffs, “ther ’hoppers don’t
roam round in no flocks stoppin’ trains,
’cause they’re too blasted big. They’re so
big they fight dingoes an’ kill snakes. Once
I was cornin’ ’ome late from town an’ I
stops at old Bugwug’s place for somethin’
to eat. Bugwug sez, ‘Would you like some
chicken?’ I sez. ‘Yairs,’ an’ I digs inter it
real ’ungry like. Well I ’adn’t taken more
than a couple er mouthfuls when I noticed
somethin’ danged queer about the taste.
‘Bugwugs,’ sez I, ‘this chicken tastes kinder
funny.’ ‘Blime,’ sez ’e, ‘if yer don’t like
it, don’t eat it,’ an’ winks kinda funny.
I goes on eatin’ then, an’ the more I eats
the more I discovers that that danged chicken
don’t taste like I expected. So I prizes up
a wing an’ looks at it, an’ turns it, an'
flops it over, an’ examines it judiciously
until I makes a discovery. Boys, do you
know what that chicken was?” I chipped
in sarcastically, “Of course, it was a grass-
hopper.” “No,” said Bill. “It was a chicken.
I hadn’t eaten one for so long I wasn’t used
to the taste.”
* =5: *
“Jim Carew” : “Mick Anic” (B. 14/8/’29)
tells of a wren who regularly attacks the
red glass of a railway signal and fights it
until he is exhausted. The explanation is
quite simple. The bird flying about the
signal caught sight of his own reflection in
the glass. Thinking it to be another wren,
and having visions of being ousted from the
position *of head of his harem, the wren
promptly opened an assault, hoping to drive
the intruder away. The subsequent attacks
are due to the wren returning each day to see
if his adversary is still on deck.
%*, * *
“Brady’s Lookout”: It is recorded that in
the early days a Tasmanian black who was
in gaol ended his life in a very singular
manner. He was a young, able-bodied man,
and the gaoler and doctor were at first
puzzled as to the cause of his death.. Exami-
nation showed that he had rolled his tongue
into a ball and forced it into such a position
that he was choked.
* * * *
“Hayband”: With 40 miles of track -
behind, and 50 before, we acquired a pair
of smoking-hot sulky-axles. It didn’t take
long to note that the axle-grease was miss-
ing. But the tucker-box contained some
sardines, and we anointed each axle with
the contents of a tin. The sulky ran the
rest of the way as though it was all down
hill, and I believe we could have done
another 50 on the same fish.
NO FURTHER RESPONSIBILITY.
PRO BONO PUBLICO: “Taking a bit of a
risk, ain’t you, Ikey, with that window-
cleaner?”
IKEY IKENSTEIN: “Vell, I offered him a
ladder and he refused it; so if he falls
it vill be now on his own head.”
“Emel” : No need to go to Queensland for
those who like to eat their cured pig raw
(B. 14/8/’29). Sandwiches of sliced raw
ham are among the light refreshments be-
loved of German communities in Vic., and
I have known of such sandwiches being
obtainable at railway refreshment-rooms.
The dozen superb drawings which Norman
Lindsay did to illustrate “The Quarter-
master’'’ have been reproduced in two-tone
ink on art paper, and are now on sale at The
Bulletin’s chief office, Sydney, and at all
branch offices. The complete set of one
dozen drawings costs only 25., and to put
country subscribers on the same footing as
tnose of the cities, the set will be sent post-
free from the head office to any address in
Australasia.
THE FLIRT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I dunno if they’re all like her, an’ cripes!
I hope they’re not.,
Fer wot she did was sickenin’ —I almost said
red-hot!
But p’r’aps a feller did deserve the left hook
that he got.
I useter wear me old nag out a-goin’ to her
place.
I pictured in all sorts o’ ways her airy, elfin
grace,
An’ how when I came into sight glad smiles
would wreathe her face.
She useter say to me sometimes : “Now, don’t
come Saturdee,
For I’ll be down at Uncle Joe’s an’ stayin’
there to tea.”
An’ like a goat I’d say “Yairs, dear.” She
had the drop on me.
But just about a week ago I thought I’d
take a chance
By goin’ down, though she’d said not, to ask
her to a dance;
’Twas thus I found that I had been a-walkin’
in a trance.
A-dreamin’ dreams I rode the mare along
the well-known track,
Leavin’ the noddy pick ’er way, the reins
a-hangin’ slack,
An’ then I spots her on a log with that there
Jimmy Black!
I dunno if they’re all like ’er—an ’onest gal
to two,
An’ makin’ out that you’re the one. But I
know wot to do.
I’ve been caught once too often now—an’,
tell yer straight, I’m through.
VICTORIA.
P. T. F.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Educated young woman, business, advertising and
journalistic experience, desires interesting work. Go
anywhere.—2306.
By Melb. lady, few weeks’ sewing engagement.
Good at mending, making and renovating, or would
accommodate few Show visitors in return for short
holiday in country.—2365.
Youth (19), English public school, experienced
in clerical work and automobile engineering, wants
job in Melbourne or Sydney. Refs.—2364.
Experienced butler-valet and head waiter seeks
re-engagement London and Continental refs. Any
State.—2357.
Experienced overseer, sheep or cattle, last position
three years; Q’land and N.S.W. experience ; married ;
seeks position in charge of small property. Refs.
—2323.
By young man (28) with literary ambitions, em-
ployment in S.A. Dreamy and rather impractical,
but used to hard manual work. Small wage accepted
for constant job with reasonable leisure.—2283.
Man (36), thorough knowledge architecture and
building, motor-cars and trucks, long experience
supervising labor, wants position in New Guinea or
Islands.—2319.
Educated man (40), N.S.W., abstainer, good sales-
man, desires position with real-estate firm. —2339.
Australian girl (21), good family, splendid health,
well educated, desires to obtain position as governess
or companion in the country, any State (Q. pre-
ferred). After Christmas.—2316.
Two women (N.S.W.), wishing to travel, would
like position in Canada. Can take charge dairy
farm. —2314.
Young married couple, N.S.W., no children, hus-
band experienced farmworker, wife good domestic,
want position anywhere.—2367.
Shorthand-typist, Sydney, wants typing MSS.,
specifications, letters, etc. (’Phone B4078.)
To exchange correspondence courses of book-
keeping salesmanship, jiu-jitsu and confectionery-
making for other courses or books. (To C. H. Pike,
Landsborough, Q’land.)
To buy copies of Art in Australia (Series 1),
Aussie (Trench copies), Norman Lindsay’s “Pen
Drawings,” Galsworthy’s “Forsyte Saga” (1922), and
novels by “John Sinjohn.” State condition and price.
—2332.
To buy, Sydney, gramophone in good order and
condition. —2337.
To buy kookaburra and wattle-blossom pattern
Royal Doulton cups and saucers. —2632.
N.S.W. woman would like to correspond with
Bulletin readers in Canada, U.S.A. or Pacific
Islands. —2317.
Words of verse, ’‘‘O’Hara, J.P.” (To J. McIntyre,
Broken Hill Pty., Broken Hill, N.S.W.)
Words of “Nine Miles from Gundagai,” by Jack
Moses. (To K. S. Rymill, Wooling Station, Bull-
finch, W.A.)
Words of verses “The Ooselum Bird,” “Father
Riley’s Horse” and “Saltbush Bill.”—2370.
Information Sought.
I am the holder of 1000 shares, 5 s. paid,
in the South Greta Coalmines, now in
liquidation. Is anything likely to he re-
turned to shareholders? What went wrong?
—2037.
No chance of shareholders getting any-
thing ; second debenture holders will be
lucky if they get anything either. The mine
contains a seam of good coal; but the water
is overpowering. Assets with a book value
of £100,000-odd are not expected to realise
more than a few thousands.
(1) I have placed bonds and share certi-
ficates in charge of a hank. If the hank
suspends payment would they he affected?
(2) Should a clerk abscond with the bonds,
have I redress against the hank? —2297.
(1) No. (2) If, as is probable, the bank
receives no consideration for taking care of
the bonds it would be responsible only for
gross negligence.
What will keep mosquitoes away at night?
—2308.
Eucalyptus oil, 2oz.; liquid carbolic acid,
4 drops ; citronella oil, 2oz. Mix thoroughly,
put in a bottle with a sprinkler screw-top,
and shake before use. Dab on hands, face
and neck before going to bed.
At a race-meeting I made a het in which
I nominated three horses, A, B and C, to
finish first, second and third, in the order
mentioned. The result teas a dead-heat for
first between A and B, C filling third place.
If a het of this nature is not covered by any
rules, what would he the fairest way to
settle it? —2119.
The committee of Sydney Tatter ; sall’s
Club, to whom the question was submitted,
considered that the fairest way to settle,
seeing that there is no rule to cover such a
case, would be to declare the bet off.
(1) What qualifications must a press
photographer have? (2) How to gain ex-
perience? (3) A good type of camera for
press work? (4) Wages paid to press photo-
graphers?—2227.
(1) A full knowledge of developing and
printing and ability to focus accurately
and determine methods to be used according
to varying weather conditions, lights, and
so on. (2) Get a camera and keep on
trying. Newspapers throughout Australia
are ready to consider good pictures of events
which are in the news. Good action pic-
tures on any subject are welcome at prices
ranging from 5s. to £1 Is. each. (3) Graflex
quarter-plate. (4) The award rate is £7 9s.
a week.
(1) Is there an agreement that the Dar-
ling River shall not he locked consequent
upon the locking of the Murray and the
Murrumbidgee? (2) If such an agreement
exists, how could it he altered or terminated?
(3) Has there been any N.if.W. move to
impound, Darling waters for storage and
irrigation, etc., amd has a survey been made
for that purpose? —23ol.
(1) The River Murray Waters Agreement
made it optional for the Murrumbidgee or
the Darling to be locked by N. S. Wales.
The N. S. Wales Government decided to
exercise its option in favor of the Murrum-
bidgee River. (2) By conference between
the Commonwealth and the States concerned.
(3) This has occupied the attention of the
Commission for a number of years past, but
there is no suitable site for a storage dam
except in the upper reaches of the tribu-
taries of the Darling, where the catchment
area is relatively small, and any water which
would be received from such a storage would
be largely lost in transit to the middle
section of the Darling, where it would be
of most service.
(1) Could an amateur re-tube a s.mall
steam-engine boiler? (2) What firm could
supply tubes? (3) Preparation to prevent
corrosion? (4) What is proper course if
engine is idle for long periods to prevent
corrosion of boiler? —2103.
(1) No. Boiler repairs undertaken by any
but experts ai’e a menace to human life. (2)
Stewart and Lloyd, Wattle-street, Sydney.
(3) “Apexior,” obtainable from William
Adams, Clarence-street, Sydney. Send a
sample of the feed water to an analyst fo-
lds report, when a more detailed treatment
could be specified. (4) Either fill the boiler
with water or dry it right out. The latter
course is better if the boiler is to be out
of commission for a lengthy period. Oppor-
tunity should be taken to sluice any sedi-
ment after taking off the manhole and hand-
hole covers. Afterwards replace the hand-
hole covers and put a tray inside the boiler
with some lumps of quicklime in it, then
replace the manhole and shut all valves.
In this condition the lime should absorb any
moist vapors present and would ensure the
interior of the boiler being in a dry con-
dition.
Prospects of employment in Pacific
Islands with a private firm or in the Federal
Government service? —1967.
There are at present no vacancies in the
public services of the territories under the
control of the Commonwealth Government.
Vacancies as they occur from time to time
are advertised in the daily press. The oppor-
tunities for securing employment in a private
capacity arc limited. Write to the Prime
Minister’s Dept., Canberra, F.C.T., or Govt.
Secretary, Rabaul, New Guinea, for further
information. Burns, Philp or W. R. Car-
penter and Co., of Sydney, could also be
approached.
(1) Where can I get details concerning the
supposed finding of the “sickle” or “sacred”
nugget at Kanowna 40 years ago, and a
description of the locality of the find and the
town and camp round about? (2) A detailed
description of the general conditions of West-
ralia at the same period? —2llB.
The nugget was supposed to have been
found some four or five miles outside
Kanowna early in August, 1898, and to
have weighed about 1001 b. The site of its
discovery was kept secret for some days and
then announced by the Rev. Father Long
from the balcony of the hotel at Kanowna.
A crowd of some thousands melted away like
snow in its hurry to get out to the spot.
The story ultimately turned out to be without
foundation, but there is no reason to doubt
Father Long’s sincerity. Full particulars
can be found ip the West Australian or
Kalgoorlie Miner from August 8 to 15,
1898. (2) Kimberley’s “History of W.A.,”
Battye’s “History of . W.A.” and Battye’s
“Cyclopaedia of W.A.”
Is there an antidote for strychnine poison-
ing in dogs? —2336.
Remove the cause by administering salt
and water, mustard and water or, better
still, l/10th to i grain of apomorphine,
hyperdermically, as an emetic. Then give
inhalations of chloroform or chloral hydrate,
6 to 20 grains, by mouth, according to the
size. The last-named drug is considered by
many the best antidote.
(1) If a Queensland old age pensioner had
a sum of money left to her, would the Gov-
ernment have any claim on it? (2) If the
pensioner died without making a will and
the property was left to her after she had
died, could the Government claim it? —2266.
(1) No, but it might affect the rate of
pension. The Pensions Department should
be informed. (2) No, except where the dis-
closure of a pensioner’s estate after death
shows that he has been concealing facts as to
his financial position and so obtaining a
pension in excess of that to which he w.
entitled.
I purchased a block of land in N.B.W. and
have received an account for stamp duty on
contract and transfer and for registration fee.
Have I or the previous owner to pay the
account? There was no mention of my pay-
ing such fees when I purchased the land? —
2254.
You are liable for the cost of transfer,
duty and incidental fees.
What should one do when bitten by a red-
back spider? —229l.
Immediately scarify the spot bitten and
rub in a strong solution of Condy’s crystals.
Medical advice should be sought without
delay.
(1) Are there any mechanical gold amal-
gamators at work in Australia? (2) Are
they a success? (3) Who are the Austra-
lian makers or agents? —22o4.
(1) Yes. (2) Depends on local conditions,
but they have proved generally successful.
(3) Any merchant specialising in mining
machinery can supply. Might be worth
while writing to the Minos Department,
W.A., asking for information as to the use
of amalgamators on Kalgoorlie.
(1) Will rosella parrots mate and breed
in captivity? (2) If so, how should I set
about preparing a place for them to hatch
their young? —2o34.
(1) Yes. (2) If a hollow log is fixed
in the aviary, and some grass, chips and
twigs are placed on the floor of the cage,
the birds will select material with which to
build their nest.
(1) llow to concrete the floor of a garage
18 ft. x 10 ft., present floor consisting of loose
sand and rubble? (2) Quantities of materials
required ?■■ —2167.
(1) Existing foundations should be thor-
oughly drained and consolidated. Use a mix-
ture of 1 cement, 2 sand, 4 of broken stone
or gravel llin. gauge, and not more than
51 gallons of water per paper-bag of cement.
This will make a floor 4in. thick. Materials
should be thoroughly incorporated by mixing
3 times dry (or until of a uniform color) and
3 times wet. Operations should be carried
out continuously till completed. The sur-
face can be finished with wooden float or
steel trowel according to whether rough
or smooth surface is desired. Cure by
covering with wet bags as soon as hardened,
keeping wet for at least 10 days. (2) 14
paper-bags of cement, 1 cubic yard of sand,
2 cubic yards of broken stone.
Wliat causes a harsh, nasal tone of the
voice? Is breathing the cause, or forceful
speaking with the mouth only partly opened?
What’s the cure? —1825.
Speaking (or singing) with the mouth
insufficiently opened and the throat con-
tracted would help to cause a harsh, nasal
effect, especially if there is any physical
obstruction in the nasal cavities such as
adenoids, polypus, or a spur of bone. If the
nasal quality is persistent, a medical opinion
is desirable. Otherwise a correction of faulty
voice-production should remedy the defect.
A, B, 0 and D own adjoining blocks on the
side of a river. A and B live on their
blocks; G and D do not. A bridge over the
river giving access to these blocks has to be
rebuilt. Gan A and B force G and D to
contribute their share of the cost of recon-
struction? —2306.
If C and D have not used the bridge and
do not claim usage of it A and B could not
claim a contribution from them.
Applicants to the NJB.W. Government
Havings Bank for advances to discharge mort-
gages are asked: “Are you the owner of a
dwelling in N.B.W. or elsewhere other than
the one to be offered as security?” What
is the penalty if it is discovered that the
applicant has concealed the possession of
other property? —2lol.
As the application is in the form of a
sworn declaration a person knowingly making
a false statement in answer to the question
would be guilty of a misdemeanor punish-
able by imprisonment.
(1) llow to remove ink stains from an
Australian oak table? (2) llow to re-
polish if it is necessary to use anything that
will remove present polish? —2oB7.
(1) Dissolve a teaspoonful of oxalic acid
in half a cup of hot water, and rub the
stain with a rag dipped in this, tied on a
stick, as it is not good for the hands.
Increase the strength if the stain is obstinate,
or scrape a little with a knife. If the acid
is unobtainable, use cloudy ammonia mixed
with raw linseed oil. (2) Color and polish
are usually restored by several applications
of any good furniture polish, or beeswax
shredded and dissolved in turpentine to a
thick paste. A few drops of wood stain may
be added, but are not usually necessary.
(1) Where cam I obtain particulars of
qualifications for a N.B.W. invalid pension?
(2) Is a domestic worker, incapacitated
through illness, eligible? —223o.
(1) From the Deputy Commissioner of
Pensions, Sydney. (2) To be eligible for
an invalid pension the applicant must be 16
years of age, resident continuously for five
years in Australia, and totally and per-
manently incapacitated for all work. The
incapacity must have occurred in Australia.
What qualifications are required by appli-
cants' for a position as policewoman in
Vic.? How are they recruited? —236o.
Candidates must be over 25 and under 30
years of age, and are required to pass a medi-
cal and educational examination. Vacancies
are usually advertised in the Melbourne daily
newspapers.
llow can I make whiting whitewash stick
on outbuildings? —23os.
Take half a bushel of freshly-burned lime
and slake with boiling water, keeping well
covered during the process, so as to hold in
the steam. Then strain through a fine
sieve. Add 71b. of salt previously dissolved
in warm water, 41b. whiting and lib. glue,
previously dissolved by soaking well, and
then hanging over a slow fire in small kettle
contained within a larger vessel filled with
water. xVdd 5 gallons of hot water to the
mixture and stir well; let it stand for some
days, covered up. Apply hot.
How to repaint golf ba115? —2244.
Pour a small quantity of golf-ball enamel
into the palm of the hand, and rub the ball
between the palms of the hands until the
surface is thoroughly covered. Then place
the ball to dry on a rack consisting of a
number of fine nails driven into a board.
Information Supplied.
1863: To oil a tennis court use E-grade
motor-oil and sprinkle with a fine-rose
watering-can when the court is thoroughly
dry and the sun is shining on it. Heat oil
to make it flow freely. Sprinkle very
sparingly and let stand for a couple of days
so that oil can soak in and spread. Sprinkle
again sparingly, taking care to cover all
dry parts, and let stand for another two days.
Renew oil every two months and after heavy
rain.—“ Rob P.”
1783: To make a brooder for 25 chicks,
get a cardboard box about 18in. x 10in.,
6in. deep. Take the lid. cut out one end
rim, and on the top inside stick two layers
of cotton-wool. Cover the bottom of the box
with straw or chaff and remove one end.
Place the lid on the box with the open ends
of lid and box together, and punch a few
holes in the sides for ventilation. It is
advisable to have two brooders and use
alternately. When the weather is favorable,
open up in the sun. Change the straw fre-
quently.—'“Miliavill.”
Does Anybody Know?
How to make a non-clogging radiator
cement ? —2282.
Brief Answers.
R.C.: “AVhere and How to Sell Manu-
scripts,” by W. B. McCourtie. A.L.W.: Little
demand for his work at present... .K.L.S. : Get in
touch with G. Gordon Macleod, Hon. Consul for Siam,
451 a Kent-street, Sydney.... A.L.W.; Govt. Analyst,
Dept, of Mines, Brisbane, will test ores for radium
with the electroscope at a cost of. £1 each sample....
8.F.: Write to the Australian Investment Agency, 79
Pitt-street, or F. A. Brodie and Co., Sirius House,
Macquarie-place—both Sydney J.W.T.: The Can-
adian Government has a trade representative in Sydney ;
address, Royal Exchange, 21 Bridge-street
.E.D.A.: Not known to the trade here; even large
newspaper offices handfold copies for mailing....
A.S.C.: Ihe purple-colored veins could be caused
y not bleeding the bird properly, but it is unusual
for the blood to stain the hands. Possibly the stain
came from some other source G.W.Y.: Get in
touch with either the Chamber of Commerce or the
Chamber of Manufactures, Brisbane C.R.G.:
Write to Henry W. Peabody and Co., 40 Clarence-
street, Sydney... .A.C.: Scott Henderson and Co., 9
Young-street, Sydney, are agents for Windolite.
... . H.W.McK.: Cooper’s Weedicide, Arthur Yates
and Co., 184 Sussex-street, Sydney... .P.L.E.: Try
Angus and Robertson, Sydney; Robertson and Mul-
lens, Melbourne; F. W. Preeee, Adelaide M.M.:
You will not be free until you can prove that hus-
band dead or until you get a divorce R.W.A.;
ihe League is a professional body, the Union strictly
amateur. The League plays 13 players a side and
the Union 15... .D.J.8.: Henry Ford, Detroit, U.S.A.,
will find him W.L.: Write to C. V. Rowell, 235
Parramatta-road, Burwood, Sydney, who will furnish
full information concerning crude-oil trucks....
J.R.: Can’t trace Australian buyers. Why not
approach some of the Chinese herbalists in your
own country ?... .T.W.8.: The scores cannot be
made at five-card crib. The highest possible is 29,
with 28 next. Then comes a blank until 24. It
is an old catch. .. .W.P.J.: Ruston and Hornsby,
042 Jones-street, Sydney, and not the gentleman
mentioned in an earlier reply, hold the Sydney
agency for Ransome, Sims and Jefferies F.M.:
\ ou will need a course in geometrical and perspective
drawing, tracing and lettering, or in architectural
and mechanical draughtsmanship. Technical School,
St. George’s-terrace, Perth, should be able to pro-
vide a course. Remuneration depends upon branch
you take up and conditions under which you are
engaged. Opportunities are good for the right
class of man....M.M.: (1) Prospects poor at present
on account of depression in Island trade. (2) To
Burns Philp, W. R. Carpenter and Co., G. N. Lamb,
George Morgan and Co., and Gibson Island Co.—all
of Sydney, for employment with private cos. ; to
Home and Territories Dept., Canberra, for a Govern-
ment position. (3) It would be most unwise to invest
any capital in a trading venture until you had
gained Island experience. (4) Robust physique, a
good business head, commonsense and ability to
handle natives are essential qualifications... .0.8. :
A certified copy of a certificate of naturalisation
can be obtained from the Dept, of Home Affairs,
Canberra, for 5s R.E.: Communicate with either
Pritchard Bros., High-street, North Sydney,, or J.
Robinson, 8 School-street, Balmain East, Sydney....
W.C.: Try J. L. Peden, R. D. Pye, I. Komini and
W. R. Carpenter and Co., Rabaul (New Britain);
Ryan’s Garage, Port Moresby (Papua) ; J. R. Clay
and Co., Samarai (Papua) ; Agnew and Co., and
Bish and Lee, Suva (Fiji) ; Warbrooke and Sons, and
Patterson Bros., Levuka (Fiji). Any of Burns Philp’s
branches at the aforementioned towns will be able
to suggest others... .R.H.R.E.: Two American
buyers, Russel Fortune and Dougherty, have been
buying extensively on the Queensland tablelands
(Atherton, etc.), and shipping from Cairns. Par-
ticulars concerning the business might be obtained
by communicating with them.... A. J.: A 12 months’
course in domestic science would not necessarily
imply suitability for a position to earn the salary
mentioned. Literary attainments and aptitude for
the work would be important factors. .. .R.J.N.:
The N.S.W. Water Act provides that a license must
be obtained before a pump may be used for irriga-
tion, unless it is to be utilised to irrigate an area
not exceeding five acres used solely as a garden
for a dwelling-house. Further particulars from
Water Conservation and Irrigation Commission,
Sydney... .H.C.H.: Can’t make a valuation without
a personal inspection. The laying-out of a property
is dealt with in “Sheep Farm and Station Manage-
ment,” published by the Pastoral Review, Melb.
. ...H.C.: He should write to the Invalid and Old-
age Pension Office, Sydney, asking for an explana-
tion. .. .A.D.M.: A Vic. taxpayer whose sole income
is from dividends, such income not exceeding £l7B,
is not entitled to a refund on account of the tax
deducted by a company... .P.C.: A fish of the
mullet family, at times termed the “chub,” frequents
waters of the east and north-east coasts of Tas.
It is shy of baited hooks and usually is captured
by net. The estuaries of the principal rivers are
closed to netting. The fish is not much sought
after... .E.J.M.: Leopold Claremont’s “The Gem-
cutter’s Craft,” W. Gcodchild’s “Precious Stones”
and Keans and Holden’s “Gems and Gem Materials.”
. ...A.J.P.: (1) You are entitled to the sale price
less agency'and other incidental charges. (2) Sub-
mit your claim to the liquidator, giving dates and
particulars Central Q.: The larger section is
approximately 218 acres; can’t give accurate measure-
ment unless angles are correctly indicated. Smaller
section, 96 acres G.M.M.: The trouble seems to
bo a form of eczema. Give the dog green vege-
tables and gravy, mincemeat and milk. Don t feed
him on bread or biscuits. Wash affected parts with
soap and water, dry, then rub in germicide oint-
ment. Repeat in three days.. - .S.M.: Tell us whether
the verandah floor is supported or is to be con-
structed on the beam principle... .Readei . The
edition of Samuel Johnson’s “Rambler” that you
have is of no special value C.L.H.: Present value
no higher than published price. The pictures are
not originals....l.D.: (1) The artist’s work com-
mands very little interest. If the picture were
anything more than a “view” it might have a
historical value. (2) No value... .M.K.: The com
is not rare to collectors, although interesting. ...
J.H.J.: Resubmit question giving fuller particulars.
. ...H.W.A.: (1) Try Gordon and Gotch, Sydney.
(2) “Australian Meteorology,” by Griffith Taylor...
E.8.F.: If you’re looking for safety, no. But if
you are prepared to chance a litt e, eci e y y es.
E.J.L.: (1) Good chances. (2) Yes. (3) No.
but there are some.... J-J-P-: No; “ay turn mit
trumps, but people of small means who can t afford
losses shouldn’t put their money into unpwed
ventures... .N.H.L.: What risks can to
take? They offer 10 p.c., isnt, ‘ Z
could get twenty millions - (Many othe«
their security was even pretty g
mailed.)


COSTLY CAR BEAUTY...
COSTLY CAR ENGINEERING
in the low-priced WHIPPET
w?LLY'S
/ERLANO
*, - /
% %
9 v m '/,9/U/9Jr;,
’m**
%
<d
fOU R $ A«8 .$ j XI: s j -
'WJ'jri S
3
IP «T|
vVV
Whippet Four Touring
LOWER COST OF OPERATION
New "Finger-Tip Con-
trol ” a button at
centre of steering
wheel operates starter,
lights and horn.
THE new Superior Whippet makes' the beauty and
style of costly cars available at a low price.
Graceful lines, rich colours, longer bodies, higher
radiator and sweeping one-piece full crown mudguards
all contribute to Whippet’s trim, smart appearance.
In engineering, the new Superior Whippet can be
compared only to cars of much greater cost. Important
advantages include a higher compression engine, silent
timing chain, full force-feed lubrication, Nelson type
aluminium alloy invar-strut pistons, big four-wheel
brakes.
Dependable performance and low consumption of oil
and petrol make the new Superior Whippet a decidedly
economical car to operate. See the Whippet at your
nearest Willys-Overland dealer,
Msmam
\Ae new supe'lco't
WHIPPET FOUR
MESSRS. OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
62-70 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
MESSRS. OVERLAND VICTORIA PTY., LTD.,
117-121 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
MESSRS. OVERLAND SYDNEY, LTD.,
148-150 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
MESSRS. E. G. EAGER & SON, LTD.,
Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, Brisbane.
MESSRS. ADAMS MOTORS, LIMITED,
442 Murray Street, Perth.
MESSRS. H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.
53-63 Bathurst Street, Hobart.
NEW SUPERIOR WHIPPET FOURS AND SIXES


WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most-up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydney!
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
'v
Vi V
-V-
MORE WOOL.
Do you know that Minerals are utilised in the
production of wool?
A clip from 5000 sheep averaging 81b. per head
would contain 1 ton f cwt. Oqr. 121 b. of minerals.
If the same sheep cut 101 b. per head the wool
would contain 1 ton 6cwt. 3qr. 41b. of minerals.
Are you providing your sheep with the necessary minerals?
VITA-LICK will supply the necessary minerals. Give it to your sheep and
note the increase in weight and quality of the wool.
USE VITA-LICK CONSTANTLY.
VITA-LICK, LIMITED,
STOCK LICK SPECIALISTS,
107 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
iiU
am
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CRPARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
MORE PRIZES FOR FARMERS.
In order to encourage farmers to pass
on to others the fruits of their observa-
tion and experience, “The Bulletin” will
give three prizes for the most helpful
contributions during the six months to
Dec. 31 next.
Points will be awarded for every con-
tribution submitted, if thought worthy and
whether printed or not, and two prizes—
the first of £25 and the second of £10—•
will be given to the winners of most
points.
A special prize of £5 will be given for
'■he best individual contribution.
Only contributions that are of practical
lvalue to men on the land are asked for;
literary merit is not taken into account, so
long as the meaning is expressed plainly.
The prizes are in addition to the ordi-
nary payments made for all “Bulletin”
contributions.
♦
WHAT’S BEST TO DO WITH
STUBBLE STRAW V
“Tumbe Munda” : If “F.S.A.” tries to feed
las slieep on stubble straw sprayed with a
solution of molasses he will receive a shock,
lie gives (B. 4/9/’29) an analysis of the
digestible nutrients in straw, but states that
his figures are based on English, German
and American analyses. Now, the harvesting
system in the countries named is very dif-
ferent from the Australian system. There
the wheat is cut per binder, stooked and
stacked. It is cut before the grain fully
ripens; the straw contains almost as much
nourishment as the straw portion of our
oaten hay. Here we let the wheat ripen in
the standing crop, after which we 'harvest
by means of a combined harvester, and by the
time the paddock is completed the straw is
dead, bleached and perished, containing little
but crude fibre.
Further, there is a difference in varieties
of wheat. Most of the English wheats can
be made into suitable hay. In South Aus,
the wheat mostly grown is Federation,
which is unsuitable for hay. A neighbor of
mine cut a paddock of Federation, for hay,
but in the stack it lost all its green color,
and became hard and tough. Working horses
fed on the chaff became sick, and a pony
that was yard-fed but not worked died. On
being opened she was found to have her
bowels packed hard with Federation chaff
which her system could not digest.
To sum up, “F.S.A.’s” scheme would fail
because (1) the digestible nutrients in our
stubble straw would not provide sufficient
energy to digest the crude fibre; (2)
molasses is an appetiser and a stimulant,
and after a period of feeding a reaction sets
m; (3) the labor of spraying the paddock
would be required at a season when time
is money.
What’s best to do with stubble? Turn
your sheep in to eat any undergrowth. This
does not generally last more than a month.
Then burn the straw. By this means you are
helping to rid your land of fungus diseases
and other pests.
TRACTORS IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
“Yeoman”: As the owner of a Holt two-
ton caterpillar-tractor for some years, I
.if l !?® accuracy of the statement by
11.H.H. ’ (B. 4/9/’29) that his neighbor
was involved in an expenditure of approxi-
mately £lOO p.a. for the renewal of tracks,
•etc., for three years. The manager of the ser-
vice department of the firm running the
caterpillar in S.A. says that in very sandy
soil (in which a wheel tractor would not
work) the cost of the upkeep of tracks,
etc., has been as much as £26 p.a. But
that is an extreme cost in an extreme case.
On ordinary loamy soil the cost of track
maintenance is negligible, and certainly not
more than the maintenance of grips on the
wheel-tractor. In other respects the upkeep
of the caterpillar is not half that of
the average wheel-tractor. This is the experi-
ence throughout S. Australia. Indeed, there
are numbers of caterpillars that have worked
lor five and six years, doing all the farm-
work, with practically no maintenance costs
in that time.
“II.II.II.” is also wrong in stating that
the caterpillar has a high-speed engine. The
engine speed is less than the average of that
of wheel-tractors, excluding the horizontal-
engined Hart-Parr. It is a recognised engin-
eering fact that a track-laying type tractor
delivers from 25 to 50 p.c. more power at
the drawbar from an engine of a given li.p.
than a wheel-tractor. That is why the cater-
pillar is more economical on fuel than a
wheel type, and has a bigger reserve of
power. The absence of wheel slippage and
of vibration (which comes largely from the
grips on the wheel-tractor) is responsible
for the longer life of wearing parts, and the
greater efficiency of the caterpillar. The
small gears on the caterpillar,' the teeth of
which never strip or wear out, are definite
proof of this. i
There are probably more caterpillars (as
distinct from other crawler-tractors) work-
ing in S.A. than any other two makes of
tractors put together, and I have not yet
heard of one of the former being scrapped.
USING THE ROLLER.
“Curlew”: “J.L.G.” (B. 4/0/’29) is a
stout advocate of the roller. Certainly the
roller may be a very useful implement. Clods
may be broken or compacted into the soil:
they are then capable of helping to sustain
plants—as surface-clods they are not, But
it is not good practice to roll heavy soils, i.e.,
those containing much clay, and that set
when wet or rolled. Eight soils may advan-
tageously be rolled.
When light soils are on the dry side they
lie loosely, and capillary movements of water
from the sub-soils are prevented. After
seeding in such conditions grain may shoot;
but the. young plants may wither or suffer
from being unable to get down to the moister
soil underneath. If, however, the soil be
rolled after seeding, capillarity is established
between the lower and upper soils, and mois-
ture is freely conveyed to the surface.
But moisture will be then freely evapor-
ated, too. To obviate this, the harrows will
give a soil inulcli that will minimise evapora-
tion. When the roller is used it is advisable
under most conditions, indeed, to follow with
harrows. Evaporation is checked, the growth
of weeds -is also checked (they generally
don’t like loose soil), and the moisture con-
tents achieve most beneficial results.
NITROGEN AND WHEAT.
“Fernie” : Recently, supplies of sulphate of
ammonia, which contains about 20 per cent,
of nitrogen, have been made available in the
Dominion at about 12s. 6d. per cwt. —half
the price previously ruling—and the M.L.
Department of Agriculture has undertaken
tests of its value. The sulphate was applied
in the spring to winter- or autumn-sown
wheat which had received lewt. of super,
per acre at sowing. The sulphate was top-
dressed at the rate of f cwt. per acre. An
average increase of 5 bushels per acre was
obtained, which means an extra return of
255. for an extra expenditure of about 13s.
per acre. One effect of the nitrogen is to
considerably darken the color of the crop a
month after application. Increased growth
is then apparent, and continues till the
wheat is in ear, which occurs later than when
no nitrogen is applied. This is more than
compensated for, however, by very quick
maturing, so that nitrogen-treated wheat is
fit to out a few days earlier than a crop
treated with super, alone.
The Maoriland experiments are not con-
sidered conclusive proof of the benefits to
be derived from the use of nitrogenous fer-
as a standard practice in the
Dominion, but the Fields Division advises
al! wheat-growers to give nitrogen a trial,
particularly on patches of crop that are
unduly light in color.
GALVANISED WIRE.
From Rylands Brothers (Australia), Ltd.:
“VV.M.F.” lately suggested that for boundary
fences No. 8 and not less than No. 10 wire should
be used, excepting under special circumstances, and
in territories where only sheep were to be kept;
14g. galvanised wire, he said, would be found very
useful.
We do not think that 14g. galvanised wire would
be satisfactory; and it is certainly not the class
used so extensively in Westralia. The material we
are using there is what is termed 14g. High Tensile
wire, which has been manufactured by special pro-
cesses, and gives a breaking strain of somewhere in
the vicinity of 8501 b., whereas the ordinary gal-
vanised wire the writer is mentioning has a breaking
strain somewhere in the vicinity of 4001 b.
We would not like anyone to order from us,
asking for 14g. galvanised wire, and then find it is
not suitable material.
SUDAN GRASS.
“Mintliall”: September to the end of the
year is the best time for sowing this grass,
and seed requirements run from 8-151 b.
drilled to 10-201 b. broadcast. Stick to drill-
ing, if you can, for two reasons—saving
of seed and easier harvesting.
Sudan got a big boom a few years ago
and many farmers planted it extensively,
but in the wrong place—in the pasture
areas. It certainly makes good pasture, but
is best for fodder. " It will give you anything
up to eight cuttings before the frosts check
the growth in the autumn —it hates frosts.
Once get it fairly well rooted and it will
stand many a dry spell with ease, giving
you a cutting almost as soon as lucerne
will after rain.
For best results the soil should be well
worked at seeding-time, and do not bury
the seed. Super, can be added (at sowing-
time) to the extent of and if the
crop is grazed, a harrowing with either
spring-tooth harrows or drill and a light
top-dressing of super, will repay you. It
responds quicker than most crops to a little
extra feeding. Don’t let the seed mature —
unless you are after another seed supply—
but put the reaper into the paddock just
when the flower appears. Keep the hay
well turned to get an even color. It dries
and packs down well. It makes excellent
sweet-chaff and good ensilage.
Grazing-off in the late autumn is best, and
all classes of cattle and sheep relish it.
There are two don’ts. First, don’t let it
get too old and coarse before cutting, as it
will then only make pig-bedding. Second,
in feeding green to stock, bring them on
it gradually.
FAT CATTLE BY MOTOR.
“Wester” : Roy H'ill station, in the West-
ralian Nor’-west, has- pioneered an innova-
tion important to the cattle-raising industry
all over Australia. The owners have about
10,000 head, a good proportion full-grown and
fat; but the journey to the nearest rail-head,
as an ordinary droving undertaking, is so
long and hazardous that last year not a
hoof was got to market. This year a leaf was
taken out of the sheep-men’s book and motor-
trucks and trailers were used, each truck and
trailer carrying between them 15 head. The
354 miles between Roy Hill station and
Meekatharra were covered in 38 hours, and
after allowing a day’s rest the cattle went
on by rail to Perth and were marketed with-
in a week of their departure. They finished
their journey in tip-top condition, and bul-
locks 3 to 34 years old averaged £l7 4s.
at auction.
The trucks and trailers used are also suit-
able for the carriage of sheep and wool
and the success of the bullock-carrying ex-
periment will doubtless encourage other
stations in similar circumstances to do like-
wise. The possibility of rapid, safe trans-
port means a lot to the Australian cattle-
raiser.
MINERAL LICKS.
“Logos” : The mineral licks for sheep com-
posed of 50 per cent, salt and 50 per cent,
fine ground rock phosphate (34/35 per cent,
phos. acid) do not actually convey any phos-
phoric acid into the system of the animal.
Any belief to the contrary is a fallacy. The
mineral phosphate passes through the body
of the animal without chemical change, though
it certainly may be softened by action of
digestive juices and that is some advantage
after it reaches the soil. The action of the
mineral phosphate is mechanical, in that
its hard, sharp particles assist in trituration
of food and have a lightenipg effect on the
food-mass in the stomach, thereby aiding
digestive processes. They al?o have a peristal-
tic action on the alimentary canal, and that
helps digestion and assimilation of food.
Therefore the phosphate of lime enriches
the droppings of sheep. By a kindly pro-
vision of Nature these droppings are sub-
divided into small particles, and are easily
broken down for rapid absorption by the soii.
The presence of nitrogen in the droppings
assists the mineral phosphate in its work of
fertilisation of pastures. The sheep roam
widely in search of food and thereby act as
spreaders of fertiliser. Incidentally, the use
of true basic phosphate in the manufacture
of the licks would give even better results.
RINGWORM IN CALVES.
“C.H.P.”: Ringworms in calves are
caused by a parasite that lives chiefly on
damp walls. To get rid of it, clean' and
disinfect the calf-pens or feeding-places.
For the complaint itself saturate the affected
spots daily with salad or olive oil; do this
until the crusts can be removed without
drawing blood. Then apply strong iodine
ointment on and around each spot and repeat
when necessary. Spots round the eyes must
be treated by wetting them three times a
day with a mixture of 4 0Z - of hypochlorite
of soda and 1 quart of soft water. If there
are many spots on the calves, the best and
cheapest way to treat them is to apply twice
a week a mixture of 4oz. of Milestone dis-
solved in a pint of boiling water. Use it hot
instead of the .iodine ointment. A good
disinfectant for the pens is 1 part of coal-
tar disinfectant and 20 parts of water.
SOYA BEANS.
“R.A.”: “W.P.D.” (B. 28/8/’29) may be
right about soya beans becoming popular in
Queensland. They are undoubtedly beneficial
to the soil; but prospective growers should
make sure of a market. The only concern
I know of that treats the beans in Australia
is the Britisli-Australian Cotton Association
(Brisbane), which takes them in big parcels
but at a price which is no good to me,
at any rate.
One explanation of the low price is that
the beans knock the machinery about very
considerably.
TOMATO WILT.
“Yeoman”: The cure for tomato wilt tried
by “Silentio” (B. 28/8/’29), which con-
sists of pushing a piece of copper-wire
through the thick part of the stem in the
early stages of growth, is an American inno-
vation. But the American tomato wilt is not
similar to the “spotted” wilt which is spread-
ing so rapidly in Australia and driving
growers out of business wherever it gets a
hold.
. I can state on the authority of the Waite
Agricultural Research Institute (S.A.),
where the tomato wilt has been the subject
of special investigation for several years, that
there is no cure for the disease in sight. The
Waite Institute has, however, discovered
that the wilt is the result neither of a fun-
gus nor of bacteria, but is caused by
minute tlirips, which fly from affected to
clean plants, infecting the latter with the
deadly virus. The problem is to destroy the
thrips, which breed on other growth besides
tomatoes. Dusting plants with nicotine dust
has been recommended as a preventive, but
so far the results from this treatment have
not been encouraging. Sterilisation of the
soil, particularly of the seed beds, is probably
beneficial, but that does not make the tomato
plots _ immune from invasion by the thrips
breeding outside the sterilised area.
The safest preventive treatment is the
immediate removal and destruction by burn-
ing of any plants showing signs of wilt in
either the seed beds or permanent plots. The
VVaite Institute is working along promising
lines, and the disastrous wilt is likely to
yield to the patient investigations of the
research worker in time.
LATE HATCHES DON’T PAY.
Jack Point”: Except in rare situations,
the incubator should be cleaned and put
away at the end of September. Chicks
hatched later don’t get a fair chance to
develop sufficiently before the hot weather ;
and, besides, they are often expected to
thrive on the same ground that has been
used for previous hatches—a thing which no
chicks, be they brought out late or early, will
do. The man who hatches late chicks is
oniy handicapping himself, because a chick
that doesn t thrive right from birth is not
going to turn out a profitable proposition.
•R J-or any reason a sufficient number have
not been hatched by the end of September
and you can t buy what you want, wait until
b ebruary and then hatch a few. The fertility
and hatching results will not be quite n's
good as in the spring, but the chicks will
gi ow very quickly, and the cockerel propot
tion will bring high prices when marketed
at five to seven months.
The most successful chick-rearer is the
one who keeps the birds moving about—in
colony houses or into different fixed houses
\vith suitable runs attached which have not
been lately used by other birds. Chicks will
soon foul the sweetest ground, and if they
can be moved along to a fresh piece every
couple of months, they will thrive and show
the maximum development, which is just
what they have to do to make profit for you
As soon as they are moved out of one yard it
should be given a good top-dressing of lime
and a crop of greenstuff put in. Silver
+ any °f the regular green-
stuffs will do, but the best of all i s rape
1 his, being a gross feeder, cleans the land up
quickly. Plant your seeds and don’t allow
the chicks in until the greenstuff is ready
to eat.
“PINES” ON BANANA FARMS.
Cog” : Some time back, when the Northern
Rivers (N.S.W.) districts seemed to be
down and out as far as bananas were con-
cerned, I suggested that growers wiped out
by bunchy top should plant pineapples
where the slopes were practicable. The
Brisbane Show has proved the advice to have
been good. In the Cooran district fruit exhi
bit, the whole of the pineapples shown were
grown on an old banana plantation. The
fruit was of splendid quality, large and full-
shouldered, and suitable for canning. It was
grown by W. Kenman, who burnt off the
banana, stumps with little trouble and
planted the pineapple suckers in mulch pap-r
to keep down weed-growth. This plantation
is a picture, and six other Cooran growlers
have followed Mr. Kenman’s example.
SQUABS.
“Curlew”: The Utility Pigeon Fanciers’
Society (Vic.) has just completed a I°-
months squab-breeding contest. Breeders
(Continued on page 32.)


'A
A
//•
m
j'i'
* /
%
V"
r\
&
KS
\
V/
1
Y*
my
y-
THE CHALLENGER
f
sd
Combining fine cur feutures with
popular price
With its 70 -mile-an-hour perform-
ance, beautiful colours, variety of
body styles and matchless riding and
steering ease, Essex the Challenger
brings to motorists expensive - car
features at popular prices. Its many
costly advancements and its peerless
Super-Six performance account for
the approval it wins from keen judges
of motor car values. We shall gladly
place Essex the Challenger at your
disposal so that you may pit it against
anything that motordom has to offer.
Essex at Sydney
Five Balloon Tyres Standard Equipment
Tourer (Australian Body)
Standard Sedan (Australian Body)
Standard Roadster (Australian Body)
Coupe (Imported Body)
Convertible Coupe (Imported Body)
Town Sedan (Imported Body, with Bumper Bars)
£290
365
290
385
395
420
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY
DALGETY & CO., LTD.
Phillip Stret, Sydney.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A,
AUTOS LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
MOTORS LIMITED,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
H. C. HEATHORN 8C CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE— BUy FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.


■ . i
■
:
\ \
m
m
*
111
■ ■
’mmi
■
« ..
r-4
o
<r
sd
CTYLE that has no
is the essence of
without that hints at tk
provided within . . . i
me suggests soaring !
power . . . these are tin
grace Oakland, The Co|
And, matching this se
matchless beauty . . . is.£
. . . surging power . .
velvet smoothness . . .
highest speeds , , . dn
luxury.
iU
O A.
► ► ► THE


odau
atid V
o morrow
i mterpart . . . that
liginality . . . style
(richness and luxury
rle which in every
led and abundant
characteristics which
opohtan Six.
erb style . . . this
glorious performance
flashing pick-up . . .
silence unbroken at
jng ease and riding
Truly it may be said that Oakland is
styled for to-day and to-morrow ... in
beauty ... in luxury ... in brilliant
performance.
Go to your nearest dealer . . . see the
Cosmopolitan Six . . . drive it and be
convinced.
PRICES FROM £4lO
Prices given subject to change without notice
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR :: BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER
Convenient payments can be arranged on the liberal G.AI.A.C. Terms Plan
SERVICE EVERYWHERE
GENERAL MOTORS (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
Metropolitan Distributors:
Brisbane : Moreton Motors Ltd.
Melbourne : Southern Motors Pty. Ltd.
Sydney : John McGrath Ltd.
Adelaide: Millingens Ltd.
Perth : Skipper Bailey Motor Co. Ltd. (Milligan Street Division)
KLAND
COSMOPOLITAN SIX < «/ «
U.-J
1
■■
mmMSB
m !
.
•V V •
.
0
m
■■:"'■ :-r 'rwg :
&
•• m?-. t
immhmhhmiwpimiot
.
....
® ! - 'f 11811 l ! > I 1 f' ! H 11l IlililH llli ■HIMi
-
HH


1
»
j ■>
1
Reinforced at every
point
Not only the sole, but the upper
of this stout Abbey Cossack is
double thickness. The toughest
obtainable leather is used. And
the tongue, fastened to the sides
of the boot, makes it more
snug. . . .pads the foot and
keeps out grass seeds and dust.
For all its extra strength, the
Abbey Cossack is amazingly
pliant. It doesn’t strain the
foot—even when brand new—
because the upper follows the
natural curve over the instep
arch.
ORDER BY POST
Same sole leather is used in all styles
—the higher-priced tan boot has an
upper of special calf. Order, also,
the correct Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d. per tin).
Tan Willow Calf, 46/6 & 41/6
Black Box Calf . . . . 39/6
Enlarged catalogue of men’s and women’s
footwear post free.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 Georgs St. and 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic address: —
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
FPLI43
X
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
f
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&CIm.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridj* Street. Sydney.
What Is a WIENEKE?
<<?**%
It is only
another
name for the
World’s Best
Saddle.
The Gulf
Champion,
£l5/15/-
Please send
I have written a book of
my life’s experience as a
saddler and athlete, since
1880, and it contains
colored pictures of 11 new
models of Wieneke Saddles.
CUT THIS OUT
AND SIGN HERE.
NAME
ADDRESS
me your book free.
JACK WIENEKE,
C/o JOHN BRUSH,
371 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
And at 434 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE,
QUEENSLAND.
Cuticura Heals
Annoying Rashes
Bathe the affected parts freely with
Cuticura Soap and hot water, dry with-
out rubbing, and anoint with Cuti-
cura Ointment. This treatment not
only soothes and heals rashes and
irritations but tends to prevent such
conditions.
Soap I*., Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment address:
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.”
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
Martin Ditcher
Hundreds of Australian
pastoralists and farmers are
using the Martin Ditcher for
a score of purposes. It is
the most useful farm imple-
ment ever devised, quickly
saving the cost, £35, in
speed, efficiency and wages.
\vy Sa
&
i^sr
J. B. WALLIS, LTD.,
Challis House, Martin Place,
Sydney
499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
168 Edward Street, Brisbane
T. T. B’ld’g, Light Square, Adelaide
Padbury Building, Forrest Place, Perth
“KANGAROO” SHEEP GATE
REGISTERED No. 17494/28.
(V/lm
7.1
f
HU...
'i 1)4
Designed for sheep-pens or
draughting yards to facilitate
the handling of flocks. The gate has one bottom hinge o
guard, on which it works, and is simply thrown across
long catch bar, which holds it securely.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM THE MANUFACTURERS:—
D. B W. CHANDLER LTD.
the back
into the
BRUNSWICK STREET,
FITZROY, VICTORIA-
contributed 32 pairs of birds, which were
penned separately. Some in the 12 months
reared only four young ones, while 16 pens
reared upwards of 15 and as many as 20
mature squabs in the year. The winning
birds were White Kings, giving 20 mature
squabs and two young ones in the nest ; the
mature squabs (at 32 days old) weighed
2711 b. The second pen, Mondaines, gave 20
squabs, weighing 241 b. 30z., while the_ third
pair, Carneaux, gave 17 squabs, weighing
231 b. 3oz. White Kings, Mondaines and
Carneaux gave best results, and demonstrated
that good strains, properly handled, are a
money-making proposition.
MILK-FEVER.
“Curlew”: An insufficiency of sugar and
lime in the blood tends to produce milk-fever.
A cow giving six gallons of milk daily pro-
duces 31b. of milk-sugar, and if the food be
deficient in sugar trouble ensues.
Dr. B Sjollema, of the University ot
Holland, recommends the slow intravenous
injection of 300 to 450 cubic centimeters of
a 10 p.c. solution of chloride of lime plus
20 grams of glucose, which not only cures
milk-fever, but will prevent it in cows
formerly subject to the complaint. The
liberal use of cod-liver oil has been found
beneficial. An injection of a 10 or 20 p.c.
solution of glucose under the skin will often
correct the condition.
Stock molasses and sterilised bonemcal
regularly fed before calving is of great bene-
fit, and' should be used freely after cows
have calved.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Would anything he gained by giving the
stubble a dressing of chemical manure after
hay-cutting in early October? —1996.
Very doubtful. Depends almost entirely
upon the weather. The grassland expert of
Imperial Chemical Industries, Ltd., ad-
vises : “It seems clear that the grass neces-
sary to carry the stock through the usually
dry period in January and February must be
grown—at least, the greater part of it
before the dry weather has actually com-
menced. as the moisture ( supply then be-
comes the limiting factor.”
(l)What acreage would be necessary to
support three hard workers as nurserymen
on Northern or North Shore line ( N.S.W.)?
(2) Opportunitiesf (3) Price of suitable
land? (4) Capital required apart from pur-
chase of land? —1999.
(1) About 10 acres. (2) For high-class
shrubs and fruit trees, especially citrus fruit,
there are fair opportunities. (3) £2O to £5O
per acre, according to district. (4) Can’t
say in absence of details of class of nursery
gardening to be undertaken.
Recipe for preparation to use for lamb
marking in bad fly time, where lambs cannot
be attended to after marking? Something
that will prevent the fly from striking and
heal the tails quickly? —2o3s.
Mix thoroughly 1 part iodoform to 8 parts
boracic acid and apply a pinch to the wounds.
Cure for blood-scours in poddy-calves? —
2238
Select a new site for the pen, and discard
the contaminated one. If this is impossible,
all dirt and refuse in and around the pen,
together with the pen itself, should be burnt,
and the yards top-dressed with lime and
then dug up. Failing this, all pens, fences,
utensils, etc., with which affected calves
have been in contact should be thoroughly
cleansed and disinfected, and the whole of
the buildings, floors and fences treated
periodically with freshly-made limewash
made up of Jib. fresh unslaked lime, 1 cup
crude carbolic acid, 1 gallon water. As a
first measure of prevention, the navel of all
newly-born calves should be _ dressed with
carbolic oil or tincture of iodine. As soon
as scouring is observed, isolate the affected
calves and reduce the milk allowance,
making up the deficit in the daily ration with
warm flour gruel. Administer 2_oz. castor
oil, and into each bucket of milk put a
teaspoonful of the following mixture: loz.
formalin, 14 pint water. Healthy calves
■jiould have free access to fresh clean, water,
ind after they are a week old, green fodder
n small quantities may be fed to them.
Limewater is advisable in proportion of three
wineglasses of each gallon of milk, which
should have been pasteurised, and should
then be fed at blood heat. In the calf-paddock
should be placed the following lick: 1 part
powdered sulphate of iron, 5 parts sterilised
bonemeal (sulphate of calcium) and 30
parts Liverpool salt.
(1) Best time to sow Sudan grass-seed in
N.S.W.? (2) Method of sowing and quantity
per ' acre? (3) Will it make fair chaff for
horses? (4) At what stage should it be
harvested for hay, chaff or silage? (5) Does
it make good silage? —2o46.
(1) As the grass is susceptible to frosts,
sowing should be delayed until warm weather
ensues ; the seed will not germinate well if
the soil is cold. In the drier parts of the
State. September or early October plantings
give best results, as crops from later sow-
ings are often choked out to a considerable
extent by rapid-growing weeds. (2) Plant-
ing through every grain-run of the wheat
drill gives best results and makes harvest-
ing easier. Use 81b. of seed with 561 b. of
super, per acre, sowing the mixture through
the fertiliser box of the wheat drill. (3)
Yes. (4) The best time to cut the crop
is at the flowering stage. For hay, small
bundles should be tied, as bulky sheaves
take a long time to dry and are difficult to
cure. (5) Yes.
“Wrash”: The latest native plant to be
listed as poisonous to stock is the curra-
wong. It grows on inferior country of the
N.S.W. coastal areas and sparsely in some
districts inland. The hard, spikey, unpalat-
able leaves are sometimes eaten by cattle,
and the habit has long been suspected of
causing rickets; since a recent loss of 1600
sheep out of a travelling mob of 8000 in
the Coonabarabran district, it has definitely
been established that the plants are poison-
ous. In that locality eurrawongs have now
been declared noxious weeds. Fortunately,
they are easily eradicated by an axe driven
into the centre of the butt.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“E.11.M-”: For house-posts and fence-
posts the cheapest and most effective wood
preservative is used motor-car oil, which at
most garages is given away. Apply liberally
with a whitewash brush.
"C.H.P.”: The best rough-and-ready way
to drench a pig is with an old boot with a
hole cut in the tip of the toe. The pig gets
the whole of the mixture, and it does not
matter if it chews the boot. .
“Sutroh” : When growing tomatoes pinch
off all the laterals (side-shoots) which appear
just above the leaves on the main stem.
Pinch back as close as possible to the stem
without tearing or bruising the leaf or stems.
In this way stronger plants will be grown,
able to bear larger fruit, and this will be
earlier than that found on untreated plants.
“Well Oiled”: Administering a bottle of
oil or other drench to a horse always meant
as much down my sleeve as down the beast’s
neck until I began using the ordinary veteri-
nary syringe (a 2-oz. one I used). Place
the nozzle on the tongue through the side
of the mouth and shoot towards the throat.
Dobbin pricks his cars, but otherwise does
not eject more than a spoonful to the bottle.,
“Codring” : Cow’s milk is not always the
best food for lambs, especially in a dry time,
which is when they have to be hand-fed, as a
rule. A good mixture, easily prepared, consists
of eight parts of oatmeal to one part of
ground linseed ; scald 211 b. of this mixture
over-night with 5 pints boiling water ; boil. for
10 minutes next morning, and add live pints
of milk with about loz. salt and 2oz. of
sugar. Give three times a day; the quantity
will, of course, depend on age.
“Cliook”: In rearing chickens, the best
flooring is rice hulls; they are inexpensive
to buy. Very early a little bonedust and
ground charcoal should be supplied to
strengthen the legs of the chickens.. This
will go a long way towards preventing leg
weakness. After 'the seventh day minced
raw onions should be given once a day. This
is a splendid tonic. Of green-food, the best
is lettuce or silver-beet, chopped very fine.
“Wrasli”: A well-proved remedy for a
horse suffering from sand ingestion is to
starve the animal for 10 hours, and then
drench him with a quart of new milk mixed
with a pound of honey. After 24 hours
follow the treatment for a week with three
daily doses of liquid paraffin, and a drench
night and morning of one quart of strong
black coffee. Keep the horse on green grass
or feed with bran mashes.
“Jack Point”: “Specker” (B. 21/8/’29)
suggests feeding lucerne or clover to
young chicks to supply lime requirements
for maximum growth. Certainly both the
legumes contain a very high percentage
of calcium; but still not enough. Give
them as much lucerne as they will eat, by
all means, and to mix the masli with
either skim or whole milk is desirable; but
in addition feed them calcium in a more con-
centrated form. Sterilised bone-meal is the
most desirable, and also contains the phos-
phorus which is just as necessary. .
“Booraby” : Connection with the ground is
necessary for the termite, or white ant, and
as long as the channel from the ground can
be reached, the rest is easy. Break the cover-
ing, and insert a small quantity of paste
made of arsenic and sugar. The ants eat
the mixture and die; others eat the dead and
they die, and thus a whole colony can be
wiped out. Another way is to set the
black ants on to them by laying a. thin
trail of sugar to the abode of the termite.
“Bushman”: In paddocks where fires or
floods are possible—that is along railway-
lines and creeks —where it may be necessary
to hurry stock out at a moment’s notice,, aim
for short strains in the fence. Wire strainers
of the roller and pin type are good, too.
The pin can be released, the wire pressed
down in a jiffy, and the mob worked through
in no time. It’s little trouble to repair the
fence after, even if you have to cut a short
strain
“Tumbe Munda”: To test the virtue or
otherwise of matting beehives, I took a tew
which had only three or four frames built
up. I matted‘some with newspaper, others
I omitted to mat, and put them in a small
scrub clearing to winter; the hives were
Eangstroth 10-frame. By August the matted
hives were full right up ; the unmatted ones
were not any further advanced than they
were in April.
“Hatter”: For soil improvement and as
a late grazing crop for cattle and pigs, the
velvet beani cannot be excelled.!, but the
seed must be hand-picked, and it will not
flourish as well as the cowpea under adverse
conditions. The latter has a tendency to
run to leaf on rich soils, but on very poor
land 40-501 b. nitrate of soda or equivalent
manure should be applied as well as about
3001 b. phosphates and 501 b. muriate of pot-
ash to the acre. It withstands drought well,
but fails to mature much seed under very
dry conditions. „ , it . , .
“C.H.P.”: You can find calves that suck
others on most dairy-farms. Not all dairy-
men realise that it is an extremely bad
habit, being likely to make the calves un-
thrifty, no matter how much milk is given
them. In the case of the sucker, the draw-
ing in of air causes indigestion, and the
calf may become pot-bellied. Unites such
a calf is broken of the habit, it falls off in
condition and is stunted. In the case ot
the sucked, irritation of the umbilicus sets
up inflammation. One way of stopping the
practice is to dress the parts with bitter-
aloes, the stronger the better; another way
is to fix a piece of tin in the calf s nose. The
best plan, however, is to pen up the sinner
until it has lost the taste for milk.
“Nella” : I’m late butting into the Friesian-
Jersey dispute; but perhaps not too late
to sav that last year on the Tweed River,
out of 120 herds on test only one was a
Friesian. That herd was first for produc-
tion per cow, and also supplied the highest
Pr ‘‘TS^.” C -°“Trallwm” (B. 11/9/’29) says
“pastoralists appear suddenly to . have
become awake to the fact tnat stock is sys-
tematicallv pastured on roads under pre-
tence of travelling.” The awakening isn t
so recent with the pastoransts, but the people
who hand out judgment at the courts are
still fast asleep. P. P. Boards have spent
large sums in the improvement of 1.8. R. s
in N S Wales, and during the present
drought some stock-owners have burgled the
feed and water. After having anything up
to £5O worth, a prosecution results m a fine
of, perhaps, 30s. It’s cheap agistment.


I ~
V^>l
'• V'V
kK
vJ'K N H'l
j ... v
\.t,.v\‘^»\.» k ''VN%vw»\\\'^\\\\i\\^\\^ l ,,''
AY RE FIELD is the
personification of good
taste in headgear. The
excellent design, quality
and finish appeal to men
of discriminating taste.
Why not judge for yourself the hard-
wearing, shape-retaining merits of this
distinctive hat? Then . . your future
choice will be, invariably, Fayrefield!
Choose from an extensive range of
shapes, shades and sizes.
caiiQ
fie Id
\are ih eir b/leriis IUI ii N c
one
Obtainable at all the
leading Men’s Stores
A PRODUCT OF UNITED FELT HATS PTY. LTD.
.16.


WHEN ORDERING YOUR NEXT SUIT
ASK YOUR TAILOR TO SHOW YOU SAMPLES OF
VICARS’ MARRICKVILLE
High-Class Worsteds and Tweeds
Manufactured by—
JOHN VICARS & CO,, LIMITED,
MARRICKVILLE, N.S.W.
Also Makers of the Famous “Marrickville” Travelling Rugs.
yILL PRODUCTS GUARANTEED PURE WOOL.
d
You are on Firm Ground with the P. & C.
THE P. & C. works hand in hand with the man on the
land. From long and intimate experience £un '
stands his problems, and, because of f -
basis, meets them. During dreaded times; of stress.policy
are kept in force, money is loaned, and the mte
members thus protected. Enjoy these e^ matter
the P. &C. protect you without delay. Discuss
with a representative or write direct for information.
Chairman of Directors
Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Man. Director. H. Fell
nan ui uucvw*-* •
PRODUCERS G'CITIZENS
rn ir»F AUSTRALIA LTD..
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OJF AUSTRALIA LTD^
CO 221-225 ELIZABETH STREET. SYDNEY. jgg
SMOKE-OH!
Despite razor-gangs, life in Darlinghurst
is a little flat, as a rule.
* ¥
A secret told to a drunk soon becomes
public-house property.
* *
“The corse of true love never did run smooth.”
—Sydney News.
That’s a dead certainty.
¥ *
“The anchor was covered with rest.” —-Sydney News.
As the old song goes: “Asleep in the deep.’’
* *
“Soviet Offensive in Manchuria.” —S. M. Herald.
It’s offensive in Australia, too.
# H-
“Miss Rose and Misses Myra Change have simulta-
neously announced their engagement.”
That’s no doubt what they call ringing
the Changes.
* ¥
Women will not be permitted to accom-
pany the expedition to the South Pole. Those
who offered themselves were told curtly that
they should go to a warmer place.
“Defendant’s partnership in the bricklaying busi-
ness was terminated owing to a quarrel with
plaintiff’s brother.” — Police-court report.
Another case of blood being thicker than
mortar.
identified.
“This particular rat was more than large, it was
mighty.” —Sydney Sun.
A picture-show rat, of course —from one
of those mightly picture palaces whose mighty
doors admit mighty audiences to view the
world’s mightiest pictures and hear mighty
A DEAD HEAT, ANYWAY.
CUSTOMER ( genially, after strapping up another large order):
“Have you ever seen anything so unsettled as the weather
has been lately?”
STORE PROPRIETOR (who had expected a bit on account ): “Well,
there’s your bill, if I might mention it, Mrs. Lettitgo.”
Wurlitzers played by mighty musicians from
mighty America.
The office Sheerluck Domes guessed it in
one.
Hakold H’ardupp.
* *
“The Hume reservoir will cover an area four
times greater than Sydney Harbor.”
It is not expected, however, that each
visitor will be asked four times if he has
seen it.
“ £5O For a Slogan.”
What one might call coining a phrase.
“Darkness had descended when the bark was
encountered.” —Sydney Sun.
That would be in the dog-watch, pre-
sumably.
FAMILIAR TERMS RETOUCHED.
Speaking broadly.—A modern novel.
In the lap of the gods.— Theatre peanuts.
Going to the pack.—Rushing a peak-hour
train. , „
The least he can do. —A Scotsmans ofter-
tory.
They came to scoff. —Dinner guests.
The more the merrier.—Spots.
M. G.
THE TRIBUTE.
The large woman at the talkie, who had
the seat in front of Bill, kept telling her
offspring what was coming next Bill stood
it for a while, and then, leaning forward
and placing his mouth near the offending
female’s ear, he yelled, “Shut up! Not
only did she shut up, but she left to com-
plain to the management. It soon became
evident that the management would have
none of her. At this stage, # a timid little
man on Bill’s right touched him on the arm.
“Excuse me,” he said, ‘‘but I’d very much
like you to meet my wife.”
“Encouraged, Tom slipped the ring on her finger.
Stella gave a peal of scornful, derisive laughter.”
—Storyteller.
Hardly the kind of peal a man expects
when he gives a ring to a belle.
NURSERY RHYMES OF THE TIMES.
Ricketty-dicketty dock ,
The mouse ran up the clock.
What led the mouse like that to climb?
Why, double rates for overtime .
HUNGRY POET TO HIS LOVE.
My sun! my moon! Thou art to me
A dream of love divine.
Ah! would that I might sing of thee
At eighteen-pence a line!
* *
Medical men claim that Sydney was
healthier this year than ever before. let
according to statistics more Sydneyites than
ever were run down.
[For matter requiring a signature, J. B. Dalle ,
214 George-street, Sydney, shares the blame witn
J. E. Webb, same address.]
THE POETS COMPLAINT.
My poems travel round a lot,
Few cam have any notion
How often they have all been shot
Straight hack at me. . And yet they've ffot
The poetry of motion.
RIC.
BY REQUEST.
Bury me where the blue-gums tall intone a
requiem low,
Somewhere remote and peaceful, where the
fragrant bush breezes blow.
Plant me out by the sighing boughs of a
she-oak or cypress pine—
in fact, any old place where __ I can dodge
the Wurlitser's ghastly whine!
M.
THE SLUMP IN TRADE.
“I am an expert salesman. I am prepared to sell
or attempt to sell any description of goods, and
work hard; yet last week I barely made £2 12s.
What is the reason?” —Plaint in Sydney Sun.
“Madam,” said the man at the door, “I
have here tortoiseshell hair-combs, hair-
pins”
“Who uses such
things, nowadays ?”
the lady asked scorn-
fully.
“How about soap,
bath-mats, ‘Remoov-
um’ corn cure, choco-
lates, electric clean-
ers, tooth-brushes, cas-
tor oil?”
“I don’t want any/’
“Wait!” He
fumbled in his coat.
“Here’s an extraordi-
narily good bargain in
colonial ovens”
“We use a gas
stove.”
“A combination ice-
chest, knife-polisher,
car-greaser, mangle,
stomach-pump a n d
dough-mixer. Cash or
terms. Guaranteed” —
“We have one.”
“A block of land on
Sunnyside estate? The
dress-circle of Yabba
Yabba! The Potts
Point of Gooligul!”
“Certainly not.”
“How about a few
family pets? Rogue
elephants are cheap. I
could do you an An-
dalusian jaguar—tame
as a spaniel”
“We already have a
cat.”
“Let me sell you a
tree for the front gar-
den. Something dis-
tinctive. A Norfolk
pine, say. We supply
them 40 feet high”—
The door suddenly
banged in his face.
“I dunno what it is
—I don’t seem to sell
anything,” he mused dejectedly. And then
his face brightened. “Perhaps it isn’t my
fault, after all.” he said. “Perhaps they
can’t sell anything, either.”
PERCY PAWNTICKET.
THE TALKIES GO LABOR.
Scene : Hollywood Cottage, Australia.
Ike Ginsberg, the proprietor, is sitting
near the Roman Bath in the library. Ex-
cept for its Louis Seize, Chippendale and
Sheraton furniture, and its Titians, Van-
dycks and enlarged photographs of movie
stars, the library resembles a> twelfth-cen-
tury cathedral.
Enter Lon Afflebaum.
Lon: Howzit, Ike?
Ike: I’m about rooned. Howzit with you,
baby ?
Lon: Lookit, Ike. I’m near thru with these
goldurned Aussies. You remember me
starting the Uneek chain of pitcher palusis
fer the dirty tramps?
Ike: Yep. Prices 6d.. Is. an’ Is 6d.
COMPENSATIONS.
“You’d think ’er ’usband would be narked
with ’er ’avin’ a good-lookin’ boarder.”
“Gam, no! She cooks things now she never
thought of before.”
Lon: Raised later, when the ushers wuz
dressed as Bavarian generals an’ called
Mezzanine-majors, to Is., 2s. an’ 3s.
Ike (reminiscently) : That wuz when I
sacked the musicians from my Epik
palusis, put in Wurlitzers and hoisted
prices to 2s.. 4s. an’ 6s.
Lon: An’ just as I’m goin’ ter givvum
another kick —instal scent-fountains, put
the usherettes inter tights, an’ dress the
ushers as French field-marshals an’ call
’em house-generals—just as I’m goin’ ter
give the public these improvements an’
raise to 4s., 8s. an’ 12s. what does these
apes at Canberra do but shove a tax on
us!
Ike: We gotter go Labor, Lon. (
Lon: It burns me up ter think uv diskin'
out banana extract ter Labor bandits.
’Sides which I done know any.
Ike: I got one waitin’ outside in the Moosic
Gallery. He’s standin’ at the saloot with
all four Wurlitzers playin’ “Rule Brit-
annia.”
Lou : Some Laborite, Ike. Wottsiz name ?
Ike: Admiral Walter Marks of the Dover
Patrol. It’s all bunk about the Dough-
boys winning the war; this yere admiral
done it. Wait till I buzz down for the
Cor-de-bally an’ some cuties in bathing
soots, juster make ther little shack more
homey-like, an’ we’ll get the guy in ter
discuss a plan of campaign. Waiter.
Fetchus another highball. _ „ _ .
10-2-4.
GREAT CITY ROBBERY.
Sensational Inside Story by Our
Special Representative.
[A youthful Sydney reporter was respon-
sible for the following. N.B. —He has since
taken up wheat-farming.]
The premises of Snooker and Dudde, arti-
clioke-indentors, were broken into last night.
The thieves are not thought to be master-
cracksmen. Far from it. Their technique
more suggests schoolboys.
Nothing was overlooked by the burglars
in their haste—in fact, they removed every-
thing in sight, including 37 doormats, three
stair banisters and the public telephone on
the ground-floor. The gang did not leave
the office in disorder. Before their departure
they scrubbed, polished and vacuum-cleaned
the entire building. It was mid-day before
the local constable noticed that something
was amiss, his attention having been indig-
nantly drawn to the fact by one of Mr.
Snooker’s typists.
A municipal steamroller has been found
within. 12 miles of the scene of last
crime. It is not regarded as having < y
significance. Nor is the sinister figure ot
the Yellow-fanged Eagle thought to be the
grim shadow behind the outrage, .r*- 110
low-fanged Eagle was discovered pilfering a
little girl’s money-box some days ago, an.i
the child’s mother thrashed him so unmerci-
fully that he is still unable to sit down,
much less go on burgling expeditions.
Later still: , „ ,
Beyond the fact that a swarthy-faced alien
was not seen lurking near Snooker and
Dudde’s on the fatal night, nothing fresh
has come to light. The Chief of Police,!
an interview, stated that he did not antici-
pate an early arrest. “There is a° c “ aD ®'
so far as I can see,” he concluded, of
the robbery being cleared up, either short y
or at any other time.”
BONZO.
BEACH REFORM.
The New Instructions.
In emulation of the recent gallant clerical
attempt at feminine dress reform, the Nudity
Beach Municipal Council has issued the
following instructions :- .
I. Gales and abnormal tides: In view
of the destruction of foreshore property by
gales and abnormal tides,_ the Council s
beach employees are hereby instructed to see
that the ocean does not encroach on the
beach beyond mean summer spring-tide
level. For this purpose they will use the
new anti-tide brooms now on issue at the
Council dump.
11. Sharks: Beach employees will see
that for the duration of the present season
sharks are warned off to within one (1)
mile of the beach. For this purpose beach
employees will seek the co-operation of the
Surf Club, whose members shall sing, in
unison or in parts—soprano, alto, tenor,
baritone and bass —the following words to
any shark sighted within the prohibited
area: “Hey, vou, get out to sea.” Sharks
are to be informed that if such warning is
disregarded they will be dealt with.
111. Week-end rain: Inasmuch as con-
siderable loss is suffered by local business
THE WRONG PICK.
THE NEW MISTRESS: “Really, Mary, these
things are awful. And you, told me
you were a good fancy cook.”
THE NEW MAID: “So I am, ma’am. But
these ain’t my fancy.”
people and others through week-end rain
and inclement, weather generally, those re-
sponsible must be formally notified that this
kind of thing is to stop as between Sept. I
and March 31. In the event of infractions ot
this order the strongest measures must Dr
taken. —Under my H'and and Seal.
Napoleon Glycebian, Mayor.
J. V. D.


m
w
f
1
w I
w
Mi
■"/'/ft
1
IN THE- FIELD
m
:
P 5
IN
QUALITY
¥
m
IN FAVOUR
/
CIGARETTES
* 2Q-tofifo •
TUERriNOTURQATMARMINAMILLION.


*
055
(z
Your Home
Made Beautiful
*
vm
The
Decorative
Value
of
Wallpapers
A visit to either our Sydney or Melbourne Wallpaper Showrooms not only
means seeing the latest and really Artistic Wallpapers—you 11 find there is
Educational Value in the various displays, and our Staff have instructions
to help clients in every way possible. There are great possibilities with
our Wallpapers, and the Homelover who is striving for the very best ij*
Interior Decoration would find a visit to our Beautiful Showrooms both
profitable and enjoyable.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
a
gnittmiiftiii
uma
g JOHN
&SON
piiiliiilliilliiililiT"
iimiitiuiiiitiiiiiijl
: iXD
pT* m
i
ttn
11
Also ask about othei
Winchester Flashlights
serviceable, durable,
dependable and adap-
ted to every use.
Light Wherever You
Turn Your Eyes
COMFORTABLY fastened to your hat or
forehead by a wide web elastic band,
this unique \Vinchester Flashlight turns
with your head, tilts at any desired angle
and throws its light wherever you turn
your head. Current is supplied through a
flexible cord connecting with a standard
Winchester Flashlight Battery in a special
case that slips into your pocket or clips to
your belt, thus leaving you both hands
free. An ideal light for farmers, mechan*
ics, doctors, dentists, bandsmen, motorists,
sportsmen and all others who need light
while using both their hands.
WINCHESTER REPEATING
ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN, CONN., U. S. A.. 19
I XHonavaH
XHVM 3QVtiX
HMS3U2MM.
15 Million Motor Cars
scattered throughout the world are now equipped with one of
the ALEMITE Systems of Lubrication* All these cars are protected
against repair bills* 80% of all repairs on the moving parts of a
motor car come from one cause, namely lack of proper lubrication*
The ALEMITE Systems of Lu-
brication thoroughly lubricate
every vital chassis bearing. Old,
gritty, wornout grease is forced
out. Clear, clean, Alemite Lubri-
cant—a solidified oil—is forced
into the bearing under tremend-
ous pressure. Every bearing is
thoroughly cleaned and at the
same time lubricated.
Throughout Australia there are Alemite
Service Stations. “ ALEMITE-ING” every
500 miles will make your car run silently
and smoothly and it will be perfectly lubri-
cated at all times.
If there is no Alemite Service Station near
you we suggest you write to any of the addresses
given below and full information will be sent you
about “ALEMITE-ING ”
I cfll
I
ALEMITE MANUFACTURING CORPORATION
CMCagO DIVISION OF STEWART-WARNER fj # S> A*
Full particulars from
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH
Resident Manager
250 Pitt Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
is
\
Or from the following representatives:
Bennett & Wood, Ltd. . 284 Pitt St., Sydney
Motor Supplies, Ltd. . . . Brisbane
Atkins (W. A.), Ltd. ; • 894 Hay Street, Perth
E. A. Machin & Co. Pty., Ltd,. 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
Cornell Limited,l22 Pirie St.,BoxG.P.O.,496E.Adelaide
For the Dominion of New Zealand: Jas. J. Niven & Co, 152 Wakefield Street, Wellington, N. 2.
AJLEMITE
HIGH PRESSURE LUBRICATION
j n K


All British & Continental
CARS, TRUCKS AND MOTOR-CYCLES
EQUIPPED WITH
TecalemiT
LUBRICATING SYSTEMS
TECALEMIT
HOOK - ON.
TECALEMIT
PUSH - ON.
I
ssfddf
I
can be serviced by
TECALEMIT SERVICE STATIONS:
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street Perth
Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street Adelaide
Keep Bros. & Wood Pty., Ltd., Bateman Street Melbourne
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt Street Sydney
Martin, Wilson Bros., Ltd., 299 Adelaide Street Brisbane
Factory Representative: Mr. JAMES THORNELL, 312 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
TECALEMIT, LTD., Mitre House, Serubbs Lane, London, N.W.10, England.
POSITIVE PATCHING
aft
ast—
-
SlTFl
ATCH'v
Try the new tube repair method
with patent Roller-Roughener
and you’ll never bother with
any other -not even vulcan-
izing. Makes positive and
permanent Patches
of any size.
f IT'S A RED
DIAMOND
PRODUCT
ON SALE
AT ALL
CA RAGES
BULL-DOCCRIP 1
9d. 1/- 2/3 3/9 4/3 and 6/6
THE ONLY COMPLETE TUBE REPAIR OUTFIT
THE CRESSBROOK PARK SADDLE
■M
W
; «a
A HANDSOME SADDLE
DESIGNED TO GIVE
INCREASED COMFORT
AND SECURITY TO
THE RIDER.
THE ‘ CRESSBROOK” has combined flap and
skirt sewn direct on to the seat. This method
gives a narrower, non-chafing grip, and the
shape and position of the pads give exceptional
security when needed. It is a high-grade saddle
in materials and workmanship, and is fitted
with folded-leather girth leathers and solid nickel
stirrups.
Price £l5/15/-
FREIGHT PAID FOR CASH
WITH ORDER TO N.S.W.
RAILWAY STATIONS.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE OF AUSTRALIAN AND
TEXAS SADDLERY,
K’BURRA STOCKWHIPS, BEENIE RUGS, ETC.
Walther & Stevenson, Ltd.,
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Pen and Picture
The
STATE
THEATRES
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
Shadow Shows
Anybody with 40 minutes to spare from
thoughts of eternity or income-tax assess-
ments will enjoy “China Bound” (M.-G.-M.).
It is one of those irresponsible absurdities
which the screen does better perhaps than
it does anything else. More or less dis-
guised as Chinese coolies, Karl Dane and
George K. Arthur intrude into scenery more
or less disguised as a Chinese town, where
they have'sundry.mirth-provoking adventures,
such as seeking refuge from pursuing soldiery
in a load of over-ripe fish.
“The River of Romance” (Paramount), a
talkie version of a Booth Tarkington yarn,
is remarkable for being at the same time
a satire and a success. It is only once in
years that satire is seen on the screen at all
—not a great wonder, because the thin-
edged blade often has a nasty habit of
nicking the hand that wields it. A striking
recent stage example was the failure of
iNoel Coward’s “This Year of Grace,” where-
in the satire was so peculiarly English
that it was as alien to Australian audiences
as a satire on the matrimonial affairs of
MARY BRIAN.
the Hotten-
tot. In this
talkie the blade
is fairly broad
—t he duel-
ling tendencies
of the rooster-
like generals,
colonels and
c ap t a i n s of
the American
Southern
States in the
slave days
don’t belong
to one people
or one genera-
tion. The dear
Elvira, palpi-
tating to have
men shooting
themselves over
her, is a peren-
nial too. So,
though not so
apparently, is
her guardian,
who here
turns his son out because the young man,
almost beginning to appreciate what a
fool he was to ever become engaged to
the lady, declines to fight over her. The
son’s rise to notoriety in a faro house is
more good satire, and the lies the faro-
runner tells to uphold that notoriety are
better still. Meanwhile the son’s love for
the younger ward is a modest concession
to sentiment. Altogether an excellent pic-
ture, loaded with humor, and holding great
acting by Wallace Beery and pretty good
by June Collyer, Mary Brian and Charles
Rogers.
“Stairs of Sand” (Paramount) is a silent
movie version of one of the familiar yarns
through whose fabrication Zane Grey is able
to afford big-fish bait. It is a curiously
wild and woolly half-world that Grey has
suerimposed upon the Earth—a place of
horsemen who are always in a hurry, of
chaste womanhood and of manhood that
can drink endless quantities of booze with-
out any apparent effect. He has his clearly
labelled heroine, hero and villain, and virtue
always triumphs. Nothing could be more
moral. Sex is a thing unheard of; love, a
clean white light glowing like a halo about
a dean white young man and woman and
guiding them through impending disasters
to ultimate happiness. The odds are two
to one on that a coach will be robbed2o
to one on that innocence will be accused;
1000 to one on that revolvers will go off, and
you cannot get set at all about everything
being right in the end. A pallid antidote
for the poison of reality; some may even
prefer the poison.
“Noah’s Ark” (Warner Bros.) is a part-
Bibical, part-modern, part-silent, part-talkie,
part-brilliant, part-soso, retelling of two
rather heavily-worn yarns—how Noah
builded the ancient ark, and how America
won the recent war. A parallel, rather
strained, is drawn between the actual, or
mythical, or whatever it was Deluge, and
the late figurative “flood of blood” —the
watery event washed the world clean for a
while of man’s lust for gold and illegitimate
gods; the bloody affair washed it clean
of lust for war. The moral, anything
but hopeful, is the complete opposite to the
one intended. The picture opens with the
old cleansing Flood, but presently switches
over to 1914, with man’s lust for gold,
women and other such indiscriminately
jumbled gods as great as ever it was, if not
a bit more so. It closes with a vision of uni-
versal peace, and, old ridiculous Mars being
in the bad books just now, that will no doubt
help the bpx-office tremendously. But if
the parallel is to be given its logical sig-
nificance, what the picture actually reveals is
man momentarily cleansed by a flood, but
inevitably doomed to profit nothing from the
bath in the long run. Away from its pro-
paganda mission, the film is on the gigantic
scale, comparable with “The Ten Command-
ments.” The Biblical parts are wonderfully
realistic: they alone make a great picture, in
which the producers pretty often stand
tiptoe on the edge of the absurd, but never go
over. Oceans of water pour and churn before
the camera, with the ancients (whose fashions
in clothes apparently survived the downpour,
to last into the Egyptian era) struggling
and drowning in enormous numbers. There
is even a view of the ark’s interior, and it
is much more probable than might be im-
agined. The actors are nothing special, or
else the picture is so big that it dwarfs
them. It is only one movie in several thou-
sands that this can be said for.
“Geraldine” (P.D.C.) is the gawky
daughter (Marion Nixon) of a fat and
indulgent pa, who throws her, together with
whispers of an immense dowry, at the head
of a young lawyer more intimately interested
in girls of less obvious wealth but more
decided charms. Despairing of nabbing the
lawyer and saving his daughter’s amour
propre, the doting parent enlists the aid of a
stray young man who drifts into his office
in search of a job (such things happen on
the screen). The young man removes the
girl’s horn-rimmed spectacles, teases up her
hair, teaches her to dance and how to wear
the latest modes, and in less time than it
takes to tell, Geraldine blossoms out into
a lady of beauty, fashion and charm. Natu-
rally she falls in love with her benefactor
and they marry—if they didn’t the play
would end in blacker tragedy than “Mac-
beth.” “Geraldine” is from the book by
somebody or other —but whether by some-
body or by other doesn’t matter much, since
neither book nor picture is destined to outlive
this season’s flies.
The Palette
There is a show of pictorial photography
at the Queen’s Hall, Melbourne. With the
exception of Dickinson Monteith’s exciting
still-life “Shoes and Spheres,” Ruth Hol-
lick’s delightful study of a boy, R. Gibson’s
faithful rendering of the subtle loveliness
of Collins-street in winter, and a few others,
the pictures don’t amount to much artis-
tically. Most of them are strenuously
engaged in disowning their parent, the
camera, by trying to look like Constables
or Turners or Rembrandts or etchings or
pencil-drawings-—like anything, in short, but
photographs. _ Why the cameraman should be
ashamed of his medium, goodness knows! If
he uses it properly, he can knock spots off
99 artists out of 100.
R. G. McCann (Melb. Athenaeum) presents
the unusual spectacle of an artist facing the
right way but hastening backwards. His
best work is that painted when he was in
France, or before he went there. His studies
of St. Michel Rock, Le-Puy, are not only
handsome decorations richly colored but also
tonally satisfying. In “French Houses, Le-
Puy,” you can almost see the shirts on the
line flutter; but the cows in a later Aus-
tralian landscape don’t move or even stand
in any relation to their surroundings. The
most recent McCann works become fussy
owing to the artist’s endeavors to paint de-
tails instead of recording impressions. In
“A Garden Fantasy” there is an attempt
to catch the glitter of sunlight on leaves,
but the result suggests a flock of belated fire-
flies.
Careful painting of middle distances is
the most important note in W. D. Knox’s
exhibits at Sydney Fine Art Gallery. It is
especially evident in “Hazy Summer,” a
fairly large unbounded landscape, plotted .in
sombre but effective color. In most of his
work the painter is not at home with fore-
ground, and some of his paint is muddy, but
in the picture mentioned and his other
ambitious effort, “In the Kelly Country,” he
holds plenty of convincingly Australian land-
scape atmosphere.
The Inky Way
“Jacky Roo” : A great career as a news-
editor awaits the boy who cried to me in
Pitt-street, Sydney: “Noos or Sun—a
coupler murders and the weights fer Ascot.”
“D.”: For years Australian newspapers
have been importing syndicated drawings
from the U.S.A. Now Jim Bancks, who made
his name on The Bulletin, has reversed
the process; Mc-
Clures are syndi-
cating his “Ginger
Meg g s ” pictures
throughout the
U.S.A., Canada
and Mexico.
ROY H.
GOLLAN, who
last week moved
out from the
chair of Victoria’s
Govt. Tourist
Bureau, to become
assistant manager
of the ARGUS.
“R.V.”: The wreck of the Pappinbarra
at Port Stephens (N.S.W.) enabled Mel-
bourne Sun Pictorial to make newspaper
history of a sort. Its photographer flew from
Mascot (Sydney), took excellent aerial
photos of the wave-swept craft and of its
crew walking oYer the sand, returned to
Mascot, rushed to Sydney by motor, and dis-
patched the pictures by wire—all in a little
over four hours.
“Nakhoda”: The queerest literary com-
petition I have witnessed was a verse con-
test at a wedding ceremony in the Kadayan
country of Borneo. The Malay pantun is
a four-line structure, the first couplet refer-
ring to the beauties of Nature, the second
being a punning continuation about ladies.
The Rod Quinn of the bride’s party and
the E. J. Brady of the ’groom’s sat
opposite each other, capping each other’s
efforts rapidly, while the rest of the tribe
squatted in a wide circle under the cocoa-
nuts cheering or booing each impromptu
specimen. Ostensibly the bride was the
prize, but as the dowry had already been
paid in pigs and working bullocks, the
result was a foregone conclusion. Incident-
ally, H. G. Wells once mentioned the pan-
tun, but he misspelt it and apparently
regarded it as meaning a short story.


a m A
SB<s£s3
V<
h'\
$
«8
-V"/
3*
4
I
Is
THE OLDEST HORSE
IN THE WORLD!
Established 1742 and still in its prime.
Matured from early days in wood and
blended with subtlety and genius.
Real old Scotch whisky with a rare
distinctive flavour. In growing demand
throughout the world.
A man s drink—anytime, anywhere.
white Ho^ se
" Vcotch WHI SKY
<->dSy>


Repairs.
“Our Hands Make Good Arms”
Firearms sent C.O.D.
A VERY STRONG FRENCH
12-GAUGE HAMMERLESS
GUN FOR £B/10/-, post free.
it is only the rate of exchange that makes it
passible to give such WONDERFUL VALUE.
Note specifications: 30in. barrels, left full choke,
right half choke, for 2fin. cartridges, auto
safety, extra strong fastenings, weight 741 b.
Snakebite Lancets, 1/2 each, post free.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
’Phone MA3540,
Gunsmith, Importer of High-grade Firearms,
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
1438 Elizabeth Street (near Market
Street), Sydney,
“Fishing Tackle to Tackle Fishing
For They are Jolly Good Fellows.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S
SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA'S BEST BITTER.
A nd so say all of us.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
U
Monday to Friday—
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
From 7.30. Minimum Charge, 10/-
Saturday, Late Gala Night.
Special Table d’HOte Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
From 10 o’clock, Special Supper 12/6; or
Jl la carte, minimum, 12/6
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 (to 6, 4/-. Parties of six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 6.30, 5/-
The Ambassadors New Delightful
Dance Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and Rhythm that makes dancing an
effortless pleasure.
Order Wines before 6 p.tn. ’Phone: M4lBl.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Don Moon has won many races, including
the 1927 Doncaster Handicap, but he rarely
goes out at a short price. He was favorite
for once at Rosehill on Saturday, being
7 to 2 in a field of IS for the Camellia
Stakes; and, finishing with his habitual game-
ness, he defeated Fuji San (TO to 1), an-
other old stager, by half a length for the
big money, Figure being third, 3J lengths
behind bookmaker Matthews’s horse. The
time, lmin. 25sec., has never been beaten in
a seven-furlong race at Rosehill, though it
has been equalled. Now owned, as well as
trained, by Booth, Don Moon looks remark-
ably well, and he is in demand for
the Epsom, in which he will have to carry
Sst. 61b.—31b. more than on Saturday. All
the same; he may be a little past his prime.
Figure showed exceptional pace for six
furlongs, but is evidently no miler.
Loquacious came home strongly in fourth
place, and has an Epsom chance, though
Bst. 111 b. is a substantial weight for a horse
built on her lines. Killarney did not shape
brilliantly, nor did Sion, about whom the
bookmakers offered 20 to 1. Evidently he
has not been doing satisfactory work on the
local track, where the gallops are not re-
ported.
_ McShoi-todds is well primed with informa-
tion, and is a far better judge than the aver-
age punter, but he undervalues a horse some-
times. He did so in the case of Phar Lap
in the Rosehill Guineas. On his form against
Limerick, Mollison and Winalot at Warwick
Farm, and against Mollison and Winalot at
Randwick, Telford’s big chestnut looked a
fair thing for the Rosehill Guineas, and this
Page fully expected that the opening price
would be 6 to 4. Yet fours could be got,
and there was any amount of 7to 2. It was
all _ snapped up, a lot of it by Randwick
trainers, and twos was the closing price.
Still, there was spirited support for Park-
wood (4 to 1). Toper (5 to 1), Pentheus
(6 to 1), Holdfast (7 to 1) and Lorason
(14 to 1 to eiglifs) ; so the bagmen did not
fare badly. Holdfast, King Crow, Parkwood
and Toper were in front of Phar Lap at the
entrance to the straight (they had been that
way from the beginning), but the Night Raid
gelding soon cut them down, and came away
like a champion. Lorason, who is going to
turn out a good handicap horse, tiled to
make a race of it with him, but with the
favorite easing up was beaten by three
lengths; Holdfast was about the same dis-
tance behind Mrs. Hunter White’s horse, the
time being lmin. 52sec. Toper, Pentheus
and Parkwood (particularly Parkwood, who
looked a picture) were sad disappointments.
But Phar Lap is evidently another Strephon ;
and he is now favorite for the A.J.C. Derby
and one of the favorites for the Melbourne
Cup. Munro rode him, and had another
winning mount on Raisin (4 to 1) in the
second, division of the Highweight Handicap.
The Hill Stakes was another excellent bet-
ting race, the closing quotations being 5 to 2
Limerick, 3 to 1 Mollison, 7 to 2 Amouuis
and 9 to 2 Nightmarch (backed on the
previous day for the Epsom, in which he
lias 9st. 41b.), with 12 to 1 Aussie and
Winalot. The result was a great surprise,
for Winalot, who had been running third to
Mollison and Aussie, hit the front at the
Leger and came on to win nicely from Molli-
son and the fast-finishing Nightmarch in
lmin. 3S|sec. for the mile. In the Chelms-
ford Stakes on the previous Saturday he had
finished lengths behind Mollison and Phar
Lap; certainly he was prominent at a mile.
Good judgment of pace on Pike’s part was
largely responsible for the improvement, and
the astute veteran gave Cook, on Mollison.
little room on the rails; but Winalot at his
best is a first-class horse, and it is possible
that he is more of a miler than a two-miler
now. This may seem a fantastic thing to
suggest, but it happened to Harvest King.
Limerick broke down and came in last. There
is a chance that he may be patched up and
raced at the A.J.C. meeting, but it is to be
hoped that Jones will take no risk with a
horse that deserves so well of his owner and
trainer.
Given time to find his legs before he was
allowed to go to
the front, Spear-
man (8 to 1) saw
out the 11 furlongs
of the Rosehill Cup
race stoutly, and
beat off The Banker
at the finish after
having settled
everything else.
Ridden hell-for-
leather at Warwick
Farm and Rand-
wick he had failed
to stay a mile and
a quarter. Whether
he is seasoned
enough to win the
Metrop., in which
he has 7st. 51b., is
questionable; but
his claims must be
considered. Simp-
son was in the
saddle at Rosehill,
the eleven furlongs
being run in 2min.
19|sec. The Banker
finished impres-
sively, but it is
rather too much to
expect an eight-
year-old to win the
Metrop. Eden Hall
was a fair third,
but fifth was the
best that Bacchus
could do, though he
did not get an un-
hampered run.
Backed from
twelves to sevens,
King William won
the first division of
t. h e Highweight
Handicap from
Baillieu and “Con-
stable’s” Field
Artillery, coming with a great run at the
right end. It is rather a pity this strap-
ping Mountain King chestnut is not in the
Metrop.
For Hawkesbury on Saturday:
Highweight Handicap: Bavacre; next,
Black Douglas.
Flying Handicap: Goldminer or Boss
Poppy; next, Lady Canberra.
Spring Handicap : Kavalli; next, Orati'ix.
Three-year-old Handicap: Goldminer or
Violin Bow.
Rowley Mile: Nedda; next, Nolens Volens.
* * * *
Karuma’s Caulfield Cup prospects were en-
hanced by his success in the Mentone Han-
dicap of 1J miles last, Saturday. Baillieu
and “Constable,” joint owners, did not see
him compete, both being at Rosehill, and it
is doubtful whether they had a stiver on the
Magpie stallion, who was allowed to go out
at 10 to 1 in a field of moderates. Rain
fell, and people wondered at Jerry Carey
not withdrawing Karuma ; but Mentone track
is sandy and usually . safe. Those who
assumed . that the Sydney horse was merely
out to strip off superfluous flesh reckoned
wrongly. Karuma always was handy, and
vanquished the 1928 Adelaide Cup winner,
Altimeter, by a neck. Bob Lewis riding him
with characteristic vigor. Karuma shifted
in under punishment and Lewis had to
straighten him twice; he is the ideal jockey
for a lazy horse. Sea Money (third) gave
his first glimpse of real form for many long
months, being less than a length behind Alti-
meter.
Altimeter is the horse whose South Aus.
triumph 15 months ago led to Ben Chaffey
and Harry McCalman severing relations as
patron and trainer. Chaffey was annoyed
at his Adelaide Cup candidate being beaten
by a stable mate. Altimeter did not race
last season, but is getting into good trim
again. However, he l’eeeived 171 b. from
Karuma at Mentone, and there is only 91b.
between them in the Caulfield Cup. Lalique,
the Mentone favorite, performed miserably,
and Affirm was fifth only. Gleamlight, from
Jim Scobie’s stable, shared second favoritism
with Affirm. He looked a possible winner at
the distance, but faded out of the money
situations. Second Wind, whose failure at
Aspendale Park a few weeks ago caused a
mild sensation, was in the market; with W.
Scanlon up, ho made an encouraging move
five fui-longs from home, but dropped the
bit soon afterwards, and was not persevered
with. There does not seem much chance of
Jack Holt winning the Caulfield Cup with
Second Wind.
Holt had Limber Up engaged in the mile
Welter Handicap, and Gerald Buckley came
down from the country to see how his three-
year-old would shape. Rain was so incessant
when the race arrived that Limber Up was
scratched. Another notable thoroughbred to
be withdrawn was The Happy Warrior, who
ran third in the Chelmsford Stakes last year.
This four-year-old is losing caste; the Men-
tone handicapper made. Harbinger concede
him 171 b.
AT THE NINETEENTH.
GOLFER (to very thirsty opponent): “Hullo, old man, your shout
again I think.' You’ve done that in one.”
Lady Yarborough, backed from 5 to 1 to
3 to 1 for the Mentone Plate, was one
of the last to finish. Frank Dempsey had
the (of late) rather frequent experience of
being squeezed at the start; in such cases
the crack lightweight is apt to search for
the nearest safety zone. In the concluding
event he urged Quick Reward along from
the tail of the field to sixth position at the
finish. Quick Reward belongs to Son Hearn,
an optimistic bookmaker who bets well on
his horses; he will win before long with
Quick Reward. Clarius, the Mentone Plate
victor, is a smart three-year-old, who, with
7.8, ought to have been at shorter odds
than 12 to 1.
Punchinello, making his debut over fences,
touched 5 to 2 for the Brush Steeple, but
was deposed at the death-knock by Landseer.
He never gave the opposition a look in,
romping home in advance of the Irish horse
/Eneas. Backed off the card for the Jumpers’
Flat, Hoot Gibson registered an equally
easy victory. He is trained by Dave Mc-
Namara, the former St. Kilda footballer.
I). .J. Price, who trains Balmerino and
Caramelo, ran third in a division of the
Epsom Purse with Aleman and second in the
Welter Handicap with Donace. These prads
are due for success soon.
For Moonee Valley on Saturday:—
Arundel Steeple : Valbroy ; next, Gulyarri.
Quality Handicap: High Syce; next,
Albanian.
* * * *
“Ike O’Rooke” : I am filled with admira-
tion for a little Maorilander who wrote to
the editor of a children’s page featured by
a Dominion journal. Under the title of
“Witch Doctor,” the scribe has acquired a
reputation for infallibility. The intelligent
child asked for the names of the horses
which would win the double at the coming
Avondale races. As he explained, he was
running a double book among his school
acquaintance, and knowledge of the winning
double would enable him “to mark it off
for myself and get a skinner.” It is of
intense interest to any member of my pro-
fession that so young a child should already
have mastered the first great principle of
“Layin’ ’em.”
* * * *
“Eagle Farm” : At a recent Brisbane meet-
ing backers of a horse which had run fourth
threw away their tickets. The third horse
couldn’t weigh-in, however, and their nag was
shoved up into the dividend belt. The Justice
Department offered to pay out if proof of
investment could be tendered. The claims
that -came in were more than double the
number of tickets issued, so the Government
will pouch the cash.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Heavyweight scraps are usually uninterest-
ing, but Pat Redmond, 16.2, and Blackie
Miller, 13.10., supplied an exception at Syd-
ney Stadium on Saturday night. Miller tore
in from the start and bustled Pat, nailing
him oil the jaw with a couple of terrific right
swings. Pat steadied his opponent with a
hard left to the body, and using both hands
determinedly soon had him looking serious.
The third round was a hurricane affair. Mil-
ler scored early with a corking right to the
iaw, and then swung blows from-every angle.
Two landed low, and brought angry cautions
from referee Wallis. Pat tore in to get
even, and in the fourth round dropped Miller
for keeps with a solid drive to the body.
jJ; ;J; ']•
Ad San tel (13.8) and John Pesek (13.7-i)
staged their well-advertised return strangle
at Melbourne on Saturday before a large and
unsophisticated crowd. Pesek let Ad do
nearly all the spectacular stuff before ending
it. Santel could not continue after being
dumped, following a trip through the ropes,
in the 6th round, and the verdict went to
John.
* c * *
“Dekko” : The pious Hindu is proverbial
for guile,, and carries his idiosyncrasy into
sport even. One Naranjan was recently
wrestling in Auckland with Farmer Vance,
the Canadian mat showman. Each had
gained a fall, and the Asiatic was wilt-
ing. H'e clung desperately to the top
rope with both hands, Vance hauling at his
shoulders in an attempt to prise him off.
Just as Vance gave an extra-special heave,
the wily one suddenly let go. Vance went
down on his back with such a wallop that
he was knocked out, and the enemy, who
had fallen comfortably on top of him, gained
the fall and the match.
Footbrawl
The Victorian League final between Carl-
ton and Richmond drew 60,750 people to
the Melb. C. Ground, and authority col-
lected £3127 from them. Play was solid and
thrilling. Twice umpire Scott held the game
up to allow tempers to cool, and he missed one
bout of fisticuffs when two opponents sent
each other sprawling. From the very start,
goal was matched with goal; at half-time
Richmond held a 10-point lead, but could
gain no more. At lemon-time Carlton was
4 points ahead. Steady rain fell through
the last half, and clean marking and neat
handling were impossible. Ten minutes
before the end Carlton was 13 points to
the good and began to feel safe. However,
Richmond put in a strenuous rally that
brought 3 goals and a behind, so that when
the end came the club was a goal to the good
—l5 goals 7 behinds to Carlton’s 14 goals
7 behinds; great kicking considering the
slippery gi-ound and ball. Best individual
displays for Carlton were given by C. and
A. Martyn and rover Downs; Richmond’s
stars were Dunne, Sheahan, Geddes and
Ryan.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Australian League competi-
tions ended on Saturday, when Newffown
defeated North Shore at Erskineville by 68
(10-8) to 42 (6-6). This was Newtown’s
14tli consecutive win, the club having gone
through the season unbeaten, a record only
equalled by East Sydney in 1926.
* * * *
The Australian Rugby League players put
up their best pei'formance in England to
date by beating Broughton Rangers in rain
and mud 21-8. The Manchester club is
rated a powerful side, but was outpaced in
all departments. This marks the fifth con-
secutive win by the tourists.
(Continued on page 1/1.)
ALTERED CASES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Did you see him?” he said. ,
The hero-worship of an eager child
Shone in his eyes; his vacant face was red
With unaccustomed ardor, and he smiled.
“There’s ridin’ for you ! Won it on the bit,
‘•An’ why?” (A query this, rhetorical.)
“That mare’s no champion, as you’ll admit,
An* still she wins by lengths. An’ that
ain’t all;
He never needs to touch her with the whip.
You see, he’s wide awake and well away ;
But does he race her out? No-o-o ! Takes
a grip
Of her and lets some other goat make play
Along the back; lets three or four slip past
An’ dwells on ’em, then cuts in at the turn,
An’ when they straighten up he’s cornin’
fast
An’ smothers ’em. Gawd, they got lots to
learn,
Some of these kids, far more than they
suspect. •
But Gallagher—he rides ’em with his
head!”
As merrily he turned him to collect,
“Did you see him?” he said.
“Did you see him?” he said.
His words hung heavy as a curse intoned
By vengeful priest; his vacant face was red
With unaccustomed anger, and he groaned.
“There’s ridin’ for you! Beaten by a nose,
And why?” (As’once before, I answered
naught.)
“That colt stands out alone among all those,
An’ still he loses. They just won’t be
taught,
Some of these jocks. Look, when he, by a
fluke,
Gets the kick-out, I ask you, does he try
To make use of it? No, sir! ‘Me Lord
duke,’
He says, ‘l’m after you,’ an’ lets ’em by,
An’ never makes a move till near the bend.
An’ when they open for him like a gate,
He suddenly makes up his mind to send
Him proper, an’ by then he’s too dam’ late.
Some of these kids do know a thing or two,
But Gallagher—he never had a head !”
As viciously he tore his ticket through,
“Did you see him?” he said.
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


MEET AUSTRALIA’S MOST POPULAR YOUNG MAN AT MICK SIMMONS!
DON BRADMAN
Ut Your Service'
In adding the services of the brilliant Don Bradman to the staff of their
Cricket Section, Mick Simmons feel that the action was but a mo
keeping with the firm’s policy of “first and foremost in all thmgs pertami a
Sport.” Cricketers and Clubs are invited to avail themselves of his services
in the selection of materials or his advice on any matter pertaining to L>nc es.
«
»lilii!inriiiilllimili > nmimmMuunmimuiimimi'vmmiiininiirmni,vvin"n"uiinmiui
b *9
9
Oo J(
AUTOGRAPH BATS
By Wm. Sykes, Ltd., Horbury, England.
( Makers of Test Cricket Bats for 55 years.)
Made from the finest grade Close Bark Willow, cut from
selected trees, matured in scientifically built seasoning sheds.
Each blade expert hand-hammered and face-compressed.
Handles are from finest-quality Sarawak * Cane, including
Sykes’ well-known treble shock-absorbing spring.
Same Quality Handle in all Bats. Every Bat has Rubber
Grip on Handle.
All Bats personally autographed hy Don Bradman.
The Beautiful “D. 8.” Test Quality Bat,
4 Crown (as illustrated), 57 7 6.
Other “D. 8.” Bats are :
3 Crown, 50 7 -; 2 Crown, 42 7 6; Club, 32 7 6.
“Perla” Double-Wicket Coir Mats
S.S. Quality, Leather-bound, colour greert, two pieces, 6ft
wide, full size, metal eyelets and spikes.
Heavy, £7/10/-. Extra Heavy, £B/10/*
Leather Cricket Balls
(All Match Weight, viz., 5 V 2 0z.)
DUKES’ CERT SPECIAL MATCH 15/-
(The “Cert'’ is specially designed for Australian wickets-)
DUKES’ SPECIAL CLUB MATCH 12/6
DUKES’ SPECIAL COUNTY 17/6
SPECIAL PRACTICE, six-stitcher 6/6
CROWN MATCH, Superior, practice ....; 10/6
WISDEN’S MATCH 14/-
Mick Simmons’ New Cricket Catalogue, the most complete and
comprehensive of its kind, should, be in the hands of every
Club Secretary and Player—Post Free
dnd now. . .
Mick Simmons
herald the coming of
King Cricket
The 1929-30 Season foreshadows to be the greatest in the history of Australian
Cricket. With this as an added incentive to worthily uphold their position of
leadership in the world of sport, Mick Simmons announce the most brilliant
collection of Cricket Bats and Material yet displayed in Australia. Every Bat
manufacturer of note is represented, and special attention is drawn to the
“Bradman” Series by Wm. Sykes, Ltd., England, which is quite frankly
believed to represent the finest examples of cricket bat craftsmanship ever intro-
duced into this country. Further, it is only the fact of Mick Simmons’ huge
turnover that allows the prices of material in many instances to be lower than
those prevailing elsewhere.
SPECIALLY SELECTED BATS
from the world's foremost makers
STUART SURRIDGE
Oval Driver
Cert Driver .
Daisy Cutter
Velocity Driver
Lightning Driver
Rapid Driver, specially selected
Rapid Driver, X special selected
Rapid Driver, “The Perfect” ..
Invincible Driver
SUMMERS BROWN
Force, IX
Force, 2X
Force, 3X ......
Force, 4X
DUKE AND SONS
County Driver, Selected, with
grip
County Driver, spec, sel., with
grip
Warren Bardsley Autograph, 1
Crown
Warren Bardsley Autograph, 2
Crown
19/6
25/-
30/-
.37/6
35/ -
39/-
47/-
54/-
45/-
30/-
35/-
40/-
47/6
30/-
35/-
39/-
40/
M.S. SPECIAL
All Gane, single rubber, spec.
practice 13/9
Tornadic Driver, treble rubber,
with grip 21/*
GUNN AND MOORE’S
Gannon 33/6
Autograph, special 42/6
Autograph, X special 48/6
Autograph, Star . 50/;-
Interstate, special ... . ... 42/-
Interstate, X special 50/-
WISDEN’S
Exceller, superior 37/6
Exceller, selected 42/6
Exceller, X special 45/-
Exceller, de luxe 55/-
SHAW & SHREWSBURY’S—
Autograph 45/*
Australian Test 50A
(And many other famous makes.)
Men’s Gauntlets
“THE SUPER KEEPER,” selected tan leather, padded,
cupped palm, with back strap, rubber faced, thumb and
finger cups, tape finger support, heavy padded wrist
guards. Pair 35/-
M.S. LITTLE GIANT, selected leather, padded finger-tips,
padded rubber palms, back strap. Pair 21/-
M.S. GIANT, selected leather, extra large ....... 24/-
GOLD GAPE, superior, padded and ventilated. Pair 13/6
Men’s Batting Gloves
“COUNTY SPECIAL,” fabric, pull-on glove, with spiked
rubber protection Pair 9/-
“DUROFLEX,,’ pull-on glove, with sponge rubber nro
tection. Pair 9/-
PATENT SURREY SHIELD, red rubber. Pair . .. 6/6
“DON BRADMAN” LEG GUARDS
‘DON BRADMAN” INTERNATIONAL PAD, white buck-
skin, 3 rolls over knee, side protectors, and three
cross pads inside. Pair 42/-
“DON BRADMAN” PAD, white canvas, shaped calf pro-
tector, 3 rolls over knee, with extra shin padding.
Pair ........ . . v 23/6
OTHER PADS AT 11/6, 14/6, AND UPWARDS.
Carnage paid on all Cricket Requisites except Cricket Mats, which are sent carriage free
in NJi.W-, and half-freight to Interstate Ports or Railway Stations.
sdf
Mick Simmons Im
HEADQUARTERS: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
“Acknowledged Leaders in Outdoor Sport and Home Entertainment ”
sd
CT
IlWlai ,i I
!' - ‘ ' ' ■- ••" '
i**L
EVERY CRICKETER SHOULD ATTEND DON BRADMAN’S LUNCH-HOUR TALKS!


0
D
BE-*
RtWSlf®
u;STOMJ§
■
w
Follow the advice of experienced motorists who
have proved B.E.S. Spark Plugs perfect under
all conditions. Equip your car and ensure
efficient ignition. Fully guaranteed. All garages.
Price 4/6.
Manufactured by
Australian Spark Plugs Pty., Ltd.
562 Spencer Street, Melbourne, C.i.
’Phones: F 4947, F 5961.
*3
if jGAWfiUY
Aes
fa*'
ctvs
sVv re 1 ' s» v i-^tt)v e
tli Y\W a a *!
' ' \\tv *" w V ce fvr”
Vat‘-«ss^ViSi
\»S
it» - i
ct Atv n lt vte
s “
**
v. t>* €
rVi
&C aV
~-*.lll
re* 8 >
RENRUT
QUADRUPLE
HAND PUMP
Price, 45/
{With Gauge,
5/- extra.)
If unable to obtain,
write to our Factory
Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Mel-
bourne, Australia.
Will fully inflate the average motor-
tyre in one minute.
When you come to
SYDNEY
You will find at Usher’s every essen-
tial to the enjoyment of your visit.
Hotel service that is homelike,
cuisine of rare excel-
lence, and that
friendly hospitality
which you desire.
Telephone and run-
ning water in all
rooms. Book accom-
modation early.
Special tariff or inclusive terms.
Qltlterfl
HOTEL
OPP. THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
’Phone 86511 (10 lines).
Cable & Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel,” Sydney.
Bed
and
Breakfast
Tariff
,{ desired
55t3T:“! can pull her up in her
Own length **
ii
Gert: vou must wonderful
control, of her '/
» .
Bert I hkvc. watch me!
WHO PUT THAO" Oajvi ' TREE
THERE *"
Footbrawl
“Bumpk”: “A novelty was introduced at
the Geelong football match on Saturday.
Nearly all the supporters wore blue and
white colors of the club. Ladies had ribbons
fluttering from the tops of their parasols,
and a bank manager had his dog painted
in blue and white stripes.” This is an extract
from the Melbourne Herald, of September
16, 1879. And yet they say that this is a
more frivolous age than its predecessors.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Gordon Coventry, the Colling-
wood (Vic.) goalkicker, has had a wonderful
season in this year’s premiership competi-
tion. Up to the club’s defeat by Carlton in
the semi-finals he had landed 122 goals, shat-
tering Macnamara’s record of 1.06 in a sea-
son.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: More than one of the Mel-
bourne football clubs are feeling the high
cost of professionalism, and none more so
than onee-mighty Fitzroy, which is having
quite a struggle for existence. Fitzroy citi-
zens have formed a Maroon Traditional
party (maroon being the bottle-and-revolver
suburb’s official color) to restore the club to
its former high position in the football world,
and the fact has been published abroad on
the air and in the press at the usual advertis-
ing rates. Maoriland could scarcely go
further in football fervor.
* * * *
“Hori”: Maoriland enthusiasts have been
arguing as to which was the best football
side ever dispatched from the Shivery Isles
—needless to say, the last one which lost
the Tests in Australia has been unanimously
voted the worst. A lot of votes went to
the All Black side which visited Australia m
1903. Led by Jimmy Duncan, of Otago, the
team never lost a match, and scored 276
points to 13 against strong opposition—an
outstanding record. Dr. P. F. McEvedy,
the Maorilander who came to Australasia
with Bedell-Sivright and later with the
-Anglo-Welsh side, plumps for the 1905 All
Blacks in Australia. As they were the
cream of the famous combination which
electrified the Rugby Union world a little
later in Britain and France, many will be
inclined to agree with the doctor.
Racquet and Bawl
“Iconoclast”: Helen Jacobs has been
telling an American interviewer of a ball-
boy’s vengeance. Sacked during a tourney,
he rode up and down on a tram outside the
ground, insistently blowing on a siren. This
had the desired effect of putting all the
experts off their game. I like the idea of
that “soaring human boy,” to quote from
Mr. Chadband. A few days ago I had to
sit through an exhibition of feminine tennis
by members of both sexes which made me
long to emulate him. But I would have gone
further; I would have steeled my heart and
employed a saxophone.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Sensation follow's
sensation in N.S.W. tennis. The recipients
of that illicit £7O paid out by Queensland
(B. 18/9/’29) have been identified, though
no official notice has been taken of the
irregularity, nor is it likely there will be.
On top of that, Les Baker has kicked
his amateur status over the fence to the
accompaniment of unfeeling remarks about
the State tennis heads, and desires
henceforth to be known as an out-and-out
“pro.” ITe has at least had the courage
to come out in the open. The question is
whether any of his contemporaries are likely
to follow his example in N.S.W. or the other
States.
=S= if * *
“Cut Shot”: In spite of the crop of rising
stars said to be twinkling on American ten-
nis courts, those hardy veterans Tilden and
Hunter were left to fight out the final of
the American National singles. The big A el-
low got home by 3 sets to 2, but had to fight
for it. He was fortunate in that neither
Lacoste nor Oochet competed. Lacoste col-
lected the title in 1926-27, and Cochet last
year.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: Wallis Myers, the Eng-
lish tennis expert, has published his annual
ranking lists for 1929, omitting the Aus-
tralians, since they were “out of the hunt.”
The old brigade supplies the first five plac-
ings, Cochet, Lacoste, Borotra, Tilden and
Hunter being named in that order. Then come
three more Americans —Lott, Doeg and Van
Ryn—with Austin, of England, and the Italian
De Morpurgo completing the list. The first
four women are Helen Will 3, Mrs. Watson
(Eng.), Helen Jacobs (TJ.S.A.) and Betty
Nuthall (Eng.). The beauteous Seiiorita
D’Alvarez is not placed in the first 10! Pos-
sibly the Castilian gave Myers one of those
famous looks of hers (B. 28/8/’29).
The Watermen
“Brute”: Sydney rowing circles were per-
turbed the other day at the news that a
couple of misguided females taking part in
a women’s rowing contest had collapsed at
the finish. Seriously, the S.P.C.A. should
step in and shoo 1 these people out of the
game. The most ardent philogynist will
admit that rowing is no sport for women.
In almost every other form of athletics
it is possible for an overdone performer to
let up for a moment or two without imperil-
ling his side. Not so in rowing. The rate
set by the stroke must be maintained at
all costs, or the whole crew faces disaster.
No respite is possible until the winning-post
has been passed.
“Hunter”: Died in Sydney last week, at
75, George Priddle, one of the top-notchers
of the N.S.W. professional sculling fraternity
in the golden age of the game. Born at
Raymond Terrace, on the Hunter River, he
rowed against Beach and most of the other
cracks of the day both on the Hunter and
Parramatta. One of his sons, Archie Priddle,
was also an oarsman of note, holding the
N.S.W. professional title for a period.
“Shell”: The sculling events at Henley-on-
Yarra do not usually attract much interest,
but there promises to be an exceptional array
of talent there this year. In addition to
Pearce, N.S.W. alone will be represented by
two solo experts—J. R. Scott, of Haberfield,
rated easily the best in the State after the
Olympic champion, and 11. E. Ricketts, who
has entered for the English Diamond Sculls.
The Ins and Outs
“Der Jong”: The South Africans, who
will supply most of the next team from over-
seas to show in Australia, have had a nega-
tive season in Efigland. Only one of the five
Tests played came to a definite finish ; beaten
in that one, the side showed, nevertheless,
that it had the capacity to win in one or two
of the others had not the three-day limit,
which did not apply to the final match, pre-
vented the clinching of the advantage. The
team was chosen of set purpose from young
players, with a few tried old hands to stiffen
it. The young element, especially the bowling
section, seems to have come out well. Perhaps
the discovery of the tour was Owen Smith, a
forcing batsman against all classes of bowl-
ing, whom the Afrikanders are hailing as
another Victor Trumper and a cover-point
comparable with Syd Gregory.
* * * *
“Trent Bridge” : Notts, this year’s cham-
pion- county, had hard luck in losing the cus-
tomary final match against “The Rest” by
eight runs. M. V. Robins, the young Middlesex
slow bowler, did the trick in Notts’s last
innings by bagging 6 for 89. Australians will
take particular interest in the fact that
George Gunn, now 50 years old, helped him-
self to 99 in Notts’s closing effort. In
1907-08 George came out as scorer with
A. O. Jones’s side, being given the trip
because his lungs were causing anxiety. How
he was brought into the team and finished
as the star batsman of the tour is cricket
history *
“Shrewsbury”: The final averages for the
English cricket season show that W. R.
Hammond, of Gloucestershire, is the only
modern in the first five. The inevitable
Hobbs heads the list, with Hammond second.
Then come Frank Woolley and that surpris-
ing lefthander C. P. Mead, who makes such
amazing scores in England yet has batted
like a fifth-class amateur with the inferiority
complex on his visits to Australia. Dick
Tyldesley, like Mead, a pathetic failure in
Australia, heads the bowling averages. Sec-
ond to him is J. C. White, whose splendid
performance with Chapman’s side in the last
Test series seems to have improved his
wicket-getting capacity by 50 per cent. Voce,
a young Notts professional, is the only man
up with the old stagers. Evidently the
master-bowler has not yet been sighted in
England, any more than he has been in
Australia.
* * * *
“Yacker”: It is already complained that
the next Australian Eleven will be donkey-
driven to earn its oats (or thistles). For
a mere remuneration of £6OO and 30s. a week,
plus a tour round the world, the poor lads
are to be asked to play two three-day matches
in Tasmania. Then they have to turn out
again on Ceylon’s isle, where prospect of
profit displeases and wickets are usually
vile. After that comes the long drag through
England. Time was when to be a member
of an Australian Eleven was thought to be
honor sufficient for most men, though a
share of what profit came along was natur-
ally sought to eke out expenses. In those
days, of course, the go-slow policy had not
been heard of.
* $ * *
“Tenth Slip”: The cricket enthusiast
whom I know only by sight and scent rushed
up to me as I entered the accustomed
caravanserai for the bracer necessary to
enable one to face the horrors of the trams.
“Well,” he cried, “wot’s th’ verdict?”
“Why,” I replied, in the usual superior
way, “Bruce has been granted a dissolution,
of course.” His retort shocked me. “Bruce
be re-elected!” he said, or words to that
effect. “Wot I want to know is ’ow did Pons-
ford’s ’and stand? It was in th’ papers that
’e was ter ’ave ’is first practice this mornin’
since that there cow Larwood cracked ’im.”
I was able to assure him that Ponsford had
reported he felt no inconvenience, so another
national crisis has been happily passed.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Brassey”: W. Mason, who was for some
time in Sydney as a freelance golf profes-
sional, left for England a week or so back.
He is to take up the billet of professional to
the Bournemouth Golf Club, one of the
largest in the south of England, with a big
addition of “honoraries” in the holiday
season. Mason, who confined himself to
coaching in Sydney and rarely figured in
competitions, played professional soccer with
Wolverhampton in the years before the war.
* $ * *
“Marino” : An Adelaide golf expert, coih-
menting rather uncliivalrously in the press on
the recent women’s Australian championship,
gloomily arrives at the conclusion that the
odds were on the side of the old girls as
opposed to the flapper brigade. He remarks
that of the 16 players who reached the
match-play round, six had won a champion-
ship some time or other “during the last 22
years.” Then the wretch actually publishes
the names. He adds to his want of tact by
mentioning that Victorian Susie Tolhurst is
tlie only player “of her own age" who showed
form comparison with those who were not.
How the pfella—l’m not sure now it wasn’t
a pfemella-—gets about without being brained
with a niblick would puzzle the shade of
Sherlock.
* * * *
“Wagger”: The perennial Victorian trouble
over youngsters who stay away from school
to earn a little pocket money as caddies
has cropped up again. The truant officer at
Bendigo had a field day recently when a
mob of protesting parents were hauled up
and fined for the iniquity of their infants.
One of the parents tearfully remarked that
her son had been a model boy until the golf
craze struck Bendigo, which seems rather
invidious. How is it we never hear of the
same trouble in N.S.W.? Either the boys
there have a high sense of duty, or else .
the inspectors are golfers to a man.
•j* $ ❖ ❖
“Hoylake”: How golf has grown in Eng-
land is shown by the closing of the Neasdon
course, the land being needed for building.
For 40 years Neasdon was the golfing centre
for North London. It was the sixth course
to be laid down in Middlesex—there are 60
others to-day. Australians will hold it in
special reverence since A. E. Stoddart was
once the club secretary. The splendid
old Tudor mansion which was used as a
clubhouse was the special pride of the club,
which carried a very high reputation in its
day.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Country Week, one of
the most popular features of the N.S.W.
golf season, is due to commence on October
S, with a Bogey handicap over 18 holes,
at the Australian Club’s course at Kensing-
ton. The country championship begins the
following day, and a record entry is ex-
pected. Last year’s competitors came from
all parts of N.S.W., including remote
Broken Hill, while another hailed from
Singapore, but successfully maintained his
right to enter by reason of his N.S.W. origin.
As usual, the event will be scattered over
several courses, including Manly, Killara
and Concord, so visitors will have every
chance to find a course suited to their game.
$ * * *
“Drayton”: Footballers, strangely enough,
seem to take more kindly to golf than cricket-
ers. There have been notable exceptions like
A. E. Stoddart and Reggie Spooner, but both
these great batsmen-golfers were interna-
tional Rugby players as well. The recent
Toowoomba (Q.) Golf Club’s championship
went to prove the rule. The men in the final
were both football players, though they affect
the professional League game. The winner.
Colin Thompson, is a brother of Duncan of
that ilk, and lias represented Queensland.
The runner-up, E. S. Brown, was a member
of the Australian League team which toured
the north of England in 1921-22.
* * * #
“Brassey”: The vogue of golf in America
is helped tremendously by the great extent
of the country and the climatic conditions,
which enable the game to be played there
all the year round. For instance, the
Western Winter Schedule, so called, opens
at Hawaii in November and closes at San
Antonio, in Texas, at the end of .January.
There are 10 other tournaments in between,
nine of them in California. American pro-
fessional golfers follow this circuit, as the
approaching winter closes the season in the
Eastern States, and it is worth their while,
the purses offered for the coming series total-
ling 100,000 dollars. This year the attend-
ance of British players, which has been
gradually increasing in the last few years,
promises to be a record one.
( Continued on next page.)


7}>p cen/ne of Queen § /an c/s
eft'sftngut&fkFcf Soc/a/ Li/e.
motel
BRISBANE
fsd
Magnificent sai i-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disDosal ol
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, wit!?
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Lines.
dry gin
...li
"'liJllllll'l 1 1
riiiiniii .1 PI
lII' "ill
S^«s
o he Best
Basis is
BOLf
SILVER TOP
DRY <ilN
Rervl; Ration
tH e
Dog food
Supreme
K
A perfectly balanced meat ration;
keeps dogs of all kinds in
the pink of condition.
FREE—Sample Tin sent to any address
in the Commonwealth on request.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from
W. C. SCHWAB
P. O. Box 1821, Melbourne
Ken-T -Ration
Car and Cycle
“Pore du Chemin”: The paradise of the
motor-speedster seems to lie in the new
“autostrades” or super-roads in Italy, which
are specially reserved for automobile traffic,
with no restriction on speed. Some 2000
miles of these, flat, straight and uninter-
sected, have been opened, and a much greater
mileage is in course of construction. Other
traffic-ways are carried by bridges or sub-
ways over or under the privileged tracks,
which are from 24ft. to 40ft. broad, and
have telephones at frequent intervals, so
that unfortunate drivers can ring up for
first-aid to cars or selves. There is a catch
in it, of course. The roads are fenced so
that no pedestrian can invade them. There
can be little joy in motor-hogging if there
are no pedestrians to scare stiff.
* * * *
“Trembler”: Sydney Bicycle and Motor
Club is arranging its second annual sealed-
bonnet run from Sydney to Melbourne and
back. There will be three classes, each
with a different time schedule for the jour-
ney; this will permit a 20-hours’ stay in
Melbourne before commencing the return
trip, as well as stops at the various controls
on the route. Prizes and certificates will be
awarded in each class and section, as well
as a trophy for teams of the same make of
cars. Oct. 4 is the commencing day.
* * *
“Disc Clutch”: A great hill-climbing test
is reported from America—the ascent of
Pike’s Peak, a solitary 14.000 ft. spike in
Colorado, by a stock model Studebaker. The
climb is a recognised reliability test, since
the road traversed is only 12$ miles for
that tremendous height. Driven by Glen
Schultz, the car took 21min. 43 2-ssec., an
average of 34 3-5 m.p.h. Even supposing
that the stock model was very carefully pi’e-
pared for the test, and recognising that the
tortuous roiad up the Peak is a first-class
one. the drive was a real test of the work-
manship put into the car.
* * * *
“Whizz”; A story reminiscent of the days
when all power-driven vehicles on English
roads had to be preceded by men on foot
carrying red flags. E. F. Roberts, one of the
heads of the Packard Co., tells it. Driving
one of the company’s early cars, he was
thrilled to find that he could hit her up to
15 m.p.h. on the flat. H'e was overtaken by
a traffic cop of the period, who informed him
that he was under arrest for exceeding the
local speed limit of six miles p.h. Roberts
was fined three dollars, but what hurt him
worse was that the man who caught him,
overtook him, and had him on the carpet
was driving a horse in a buggy.
♦ • * ❖ :!:
“Der Jong”: Though the Cape-to-Cairo
route has been more than once traversed by
motor-cars and even push-hikes, a motor-
cycle has not yet been tried for the journey.
One R. B. Waters, driving a side-car outfit,
left Capetown early in the month, and at
last advices had got to Johannesburg. A
few years ago his task would have been con-
sidered impossible. Now his real troubles
will not begin until he reaches the Belgian
Congo, well on to half-way. Even from that
point the trip should be no more difficult than
that round Australia, which is now the sport
of tourists, car and airplane services having
established service stations and bowsers
practically all along the route.
■t * * #
“Ball Race”; The Australian Olympic
Council heard a few home truths last week
when the Cyclists’ Union discussed the pro-
posed levy of 6d. per member to form the
nucleus of an Olympic fund. While in
favor of the levy, the union declined to 1 hand
any of its splosh over to the council until it
was needed; it would rather collect and look
after the cash itself, not being imbued with
admiration of the council’s business or any
other methods. Furthermore, it pointed out
that the council had given the cyclists a
rough deal in the past, being dominated
by the swimmer-runner interests. How true
this is may he seen in the stupid refusal
to select R. W. Lamb for the team. Out-
side Bob Pearce, the Victorian cyclist was
the only athlete in Australia who could
be earmarked as a dead certainty for an
Olympic championship.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: Australian cyclists propose
to fall into line with other sporting bodies
and establish a Federal authority. Follow-
ing in the footsteps of the International Cycl-
ing Union, the new body will jointly control
both the amateur and professional sections.
But it is to be hoped that the proposal to
name the combine the Australian Cycling
Board of Control will not be adhered to.
There are half a dozen “boards of control”
in Australian sport already, and the con-
fusion should r.ot be added to —if only for
the sake of long-suffering pressmen.
Miscellaneous
“Green Checquer”: Hitherto the swift has
been credited with being the fastest bird
on the wing, its pace being estimated at 90
m.p.h. In a Port Kembla (N.S.W.) race
the other day a homer covered 55 miles in a
few seconds over 27 minutes —122 m.p.h.
Everything seems to have been in order, and
the flight has been officially recorded. There
is no mention of following wind.
* * * *
“Booroodabin” : Some of these people who
write the captions under the photographs
in the daily papers build better than they
know. A Brisbane journal recently por-
trayed two rival teams of bowlers. Beneath,
the moving finger had written, “The produce
merchants failed to pull their weight against
Toowong yesterday—the home team won
by 10 pints.”
* sis ❖ ❖
“Bumpk”: Yallourn, John Monash’s
socialistic township on the brown coal de-
posits, has inaugurated a new sporting com-
petition. The local angling club is offering
a prize for the best fish yarn of the season.
* * *
“Full Choke”: The news that King George
has recovered sufficiently to take up again
his beloved sport of shooting, at which he
is an expert, has gratified all loyal subjects,
and none more than the Sydney press expert
who announced that he was expected to do
great execution among the grouse in Norfolk.
Grouse in Norfolk are as rare as snakes in
Iceland. What George Rex is going after
is the partridge, which his home county
cultivates intensively. The driven partridge
is easy to get at by motor-car. The rough
grouse moors of the north are harder to
negotiate and well beyond a convalescent’s
powers, even if the pony transport affected
by King Edward and Granville Ryrie is
resorted to.
“Ride Off” : Though not exactly a nation
of natural horsemen, the Germans have
always had a weakness for polo, which the
ex-Kaiser made compulsory in cavalry regi-
ments. They have far to go, however, as
the results of a six days’ tourney held at
Cologne showed; the winning teams were
consistently British. German polo ponies
are far below standard, and English breeders
are foreseeing a paying market. The Aus-
tralian brethren might note the fact. Our
polo ponies rank with the best in the world.
There is hardly a first-class game in India,
Britain or America in which an Australian
mount does not figure.
* =!= * *
“Altcar” : The entry of the tin-hare gang
was not welcomed by lovers of the ancient
sport of coursing in N.S.W., who needed no
Supreme Court to satisfy them that racing
dogs after hares, artificial or otherwise, round
a narrow track was no more coursing than
it was kite-flying. This spirit found vent in
a meeting of dog addicts at Sydney Trades
Hall. Each faction tried to have the other
excluded, and the reporters into the bargain.
The quarrel may lead to good results.
Enclosed coursing in plumptons has little
affinity with the original sport where the
wild hare was given a spin in open country.
It is questionable whether even that form of
the game should be allowed to exist in the
form of a gambling medium. Other fine old
English sports like bull- and bear-baiting and
cocking have long been wiped out by statute.
T. HOWARD, treasurer of the Board of
Cricket Control, who will fill a similar
position with the next Australian XI.
Plumpton coursing is certainly due for the
axe, and few will weep if even the organised
version in the open meets with the same
fate.
He H* ❖ Hi
“Bumpk”: The boom in greyhound racing
in Shanghai, where there is a meeting every
night of the week, has received a check, the
Nationalist Government, unable to inter-
vene in the foreign settlement, having ordered
the Customs to ban the importation of
fresh dogs. As, however, there are already
over 1000 inside, some 300 of which are
ladies, the promoters say it doesn’t matter.
The fact that the Nanking authorities do
not get a rake-off may have something to
do with their desire to suppress gambling
outside their jurisdiction. Lotteries, rou-
lette-wheels, and other methods of separat-
ing the coolie from his hard-earned cash
flourish in Chinese territory.
* * * *
“Third Base”: H. Dillon, manager of the
American baseball team recently in N.S.W.,
wisely deferred his criticism of the game in
Australia until he embarked for home. His
report, an eminently fair one, sums up the
situation as due to want of expert coaching.
MISS WRAY, who recaptured the Aus-
tralian women’s golf championship for
N.S.W. at Adelaide.
Our pitching generally is good, but batting
methods are all wrong and teamwork is faulty.
The baseball authorities in this country have
been considering the engagement of an
American expert for some time, but the fees
demanded by the big men are prohibitive.
“Hans H'enpeeh” : The noble traditions of
the German hausfrau are fading fast. Our
womenfolk, like many of yours in Australia,
are eschewing the needle for the niblick, and
instead of learning to rock the cradle are
acquiring the art of rocking the old man
with a right cross. A Munich fraulein, Heub-
lin by name, has staggered German masculi-
nity by putting the 161 b, shot 42ft. 2fin.,
which, is only 4ft. worse than your record in
Australia. If this sort of thing becomes gen-
eral no husband’s life will be safe in Ger-
many, where once the species ruled the roost.
At the least the bills for broken crockery and
first-aid will be beyond computing.
* * * *
“Spike”: C. S. Stuart, who was one of
the Australian hopes for the middle-distances
at the last Olympiad, is to return to the
running track this season with a North
Sydney club. Stuart failed to strike any
sort of form in Europe, and the managerial
report dealt hardly with him, so he threw
up the game in high dudgeon. His explana-
tion was that the unaccustomed food and the
difficulty of getting off weight after the
voyage threw him out of his stride. This
is quite likely, for he is a big, burly fellow,
of the kind that puts on weight very quickly
—as all athletes know, getting it off is not
nearly as easy a process.
* * * , *
“Aileron”: Saturday sees the start from
Sydney of our first transcontinental air-
race. As this is being written ’planes are
swooping into the Harbor City like homing
crows, from north and south and east
and west. The race is expected to prove
the outstanding feature of the Westralian
centenary celebrations, and it will certainly
make history in the story of Australian
aviation. All classes of ’planes have been
entered, large and small, mono- and bi-plane.
It will be a handicap event, and the only
thing needed to capture the great heart of
Australia is the instalment of a tote for the
race, such as that which gave additional
interest to the recent Schneider Cup flight
in England.
* * * *
“Outboard”: Sir Henry Segrave has put
up some remarkable performances of late
in his motor speed-boat, Miss England.
The holder of the world’s motor-car speed
title finished up a great European season the
other day by winning the big Italian event,
the Volpi Cup, at Venice. In the first race,
over a I2|-mile course, he averaged 68 m.p.h.
for the four laps, the best spin being 77
m.p.h. In the afternoon event, over 20 miles,
he covered six laps at a 70 m.p.h. average,
and a “best” of 74 m.p.h. About as fast
as an average aeroplane.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“FY7” : The sale by ancti9n of the Queens-
land Government cattle stations was a wash-
out. Only one of the dozen properties sub-
mitted changed hands ; Merluna and ■ York
Downs, in the Gulf country, went for £2ooo.
Dotswood and Lyndhurst brought bids of
£30,000, but neither was accepted ; for four
other runs there were no offers. The initial
cost to the State of the whole boiling was
about half a million. After the auction
Lyndhurst found a buyer at £70,000; it cost
the State £170,000.
* * * *
“Tup” : Still another consignment of Aus-
tralian sheep went overseas last week, a
batch of 352 Corriedales being shipped for
Japan. The Nipponese have experimented
with the merino and with British breeds and
crosses, and have decided that the Corriedale
type, originated in M.L. and perfected in
Australia, is ideal for their requirements.
The buyers of the latest lot picked tlieir
jumbucks from places as far apart as Gipps-
land and New England.
* * * *
“Murkah”: “Acct.” (B. 18./9/’29) should
have made some inquiries before lodging
six-word multiple telegrams. The delivery
charge of sd. per message covers up to 50
words, and he could have dispatched a mul-
tiple of that size to 30 addresses for 28s. 2d.
—only 3s. 3d. more than he paid for six
words. He was, by the way, overcharged
sd. One message, being fully paid for, is
delivered without additional charge.
* * * *
“Hinemoa”: “Summer time,” a ghastly
failure in Australia, is to be made a perma-
nent institution in Maoriland. Clocks will be
advanced half an hour on the second Sunday
in October, the return to normal time being
fixed for the third Sunday in March. The
change will not affect shearers or wheat
threshers, except by mutual agreement.
* * * *
“Claude W.” : Visitors to Mt. Tambourine
(Q.) will soon have to pass through a toll
gate. The mountain road cost £48,000 (the
estimate was £20,000), and as 90 p.c. of the
traffic is tripper the local farmers success-
fully pleaded that they should not haye to
bear the whole. But the Queensland tripper
is more used to the toll than his N. S.
Wales brother is. The Northerner pays any-
thing from sixpence to eightpence to be
punted across his rivers.
* * * *
“Stickybeak” : The Westralian sandalwood
trade is threatened to some extent by the
advance of modern ideas in China. A large
proportion of the sandalwood that goes to
the Flowery Land is used for making joss-
sticks, which are burnt before the ancestral
tablets. The Canton Government has issued
a ukase that children are not to be taught
this observance. This should mean that in
time to come no more joss-sticks will be
burnt, but the chances are that the effort
to abolish the cult of the ancestor will fail.
He * * *
“Unity”: Maoriland, always on the look-
out for overseas markets, has been receiving
encouraging comments on the quality of its
barley. This has to compete with Cali-
fornian and Chilian barley, but Britain is
acclaiming it as superior,, particularly ia
the yield of brewer’s extract. British barley
has long been acknowledged as the most
suitable for brewing purposes, but local pro-
duction is small and the demand for beer
is great.
* * * *
“Frigid”: Admittedly Queensland walnut
is a little hard to cut and dress (B.
ii/9/’29), but Australians know how to
convert it. The large percentage of
silica presented a difficulty, but special saws
are now used to overcome this. Queensland
firms use walnut in furniture and Beale's
employ it extensively for their piano veneers.
These are rotary-cut, sliced or knife-cut,
and saw-cut. Sliced veneer is rarely thicker
than one-twelfth of an inch; it has been
cut as fine as one-eightieth of an inch.
* * * *
“M.G.” (Hong Kong) : Why doesn’t Aus-
tralia, out of its plenty, send fruits and
vegetables to the salad-starved European
population of Hong Kong? We dare not
eat uncooked anything grown by John
Chinaman, and at times the palate cries
out for the tomatoes, celery and lettuce
we knew in Aussie. Isn’t there some way
these things could be sent fresh to the ship’s
cool chambers and up to us? We’d pay any
prices, almost, for crisp salad vegetables
that we could trust. Is there any reason,
either, why Australian preserved fruits, dried
and tinned, should not take the place of the
übiquitous Chlifornian goods? During my
stay here I have never seen an Australian
orange. In fact, the only dinkum Aussie
product I have noticed so far has been The
Bulletin.
H= * * *
“Carp” : One of the best-known U.S. con-
cerns manufacturing edged tools has given
Britain a fine free advertisement. It
announces that the “remarkable cutting
qualities” of certain of its wares are ex-
plained by the fact that the cutting edge is
“made in Sheffield, England.”


/J/hlhdocn^^
a Business
Wear/jrAien
njmar/.-fluthenlic
ant^~Madj/ /Sr^erfice :)
■
SB
m
m i
m
m
...
■;
■
■
m
«£
Sports Coats
Summer-weight Tweed Sports
Coats for Men. Fashioned in
latest style, with half-belt at
back, three patch pockets,
horn or leather buttons. Ready
for immediate wear.
Murdoch’s unap-
proachable “Mill
to Wearer” value
Other Qualities
25/- to 55/-
30-
Sports Suits
Smartly fashioned from All-wool Aus-
tralian Tweeds. Coat is cut with pleats
at back; patch pockets.
Trousers have side,
fob, and hip pockets.
Murdoch’s Price ...
w-
Sac Suits
These Ready-for-Service Sac Suits for Men are
unequalled for fit and smart appearance. Splendid
quality summer-weight Australian
Tweeds; mid or datk Grey shade.
A perfect-fitting Suit for every
figure. Coat, Vest, and Trousers
Ss£
Woollen Worsted Sac Suits for Men.
Plain and fancy effects in shades of
Grey. Ready for service
78'9
Soft Felt Hats
Smart “Stralino” Felt Hats for Men. “Snap
Brim” style medium - width
brim. Fawn, Beaver, Light and
Mid Grey colour tones. Silk-
lined. All regular sizes
V
“Kookaburra” Quality 21/-
“Star” and “Al” Quality 35/-
The “J. A. Murdoch” Quality . . 50/-
POSTACE PAID TO YOUR DOOR
KINDLY ADDRESS ALL INQUIRIES, Etc.,
TO DESK “R.”
111
Hi
WWW,/
S'. ?'
Cream Trousers
Cream Gabardine Trousers for Men. Perfectly
cut to allow for a maximum of
wear and exertion. Side, hip, and
fob pockets ; side straps, belt
loops, and cuff bottoms
Bn
Superior Quality at 17/6.
Men’s Cream Woollen Gabardine Trousers .. 27/6
Superior Qualities 30/-, 35/-
Sports Shirts
White Mercerised Sports Shirts for Men. Cool
and comfortable fitting. Made
with large collar, which may be
worn either open or closed at
neck
“Fugiluxe” (Regd.) Sports Shirts—a material just
like silk. Excellent wearers 12/6
53
Golf Shirts
Striped Cambric Golf Shirts for Men.
Latest fancy two-tone designs, on White
grounds. Collar to match
5 ! 11
Sports Footwear
Men’s White Canvas Tennis Shoes, with
White rubber soles
Other Prices, 4/11, 7/11.
With Crepe Rubber soles, 5/6, 6/11, 10/6.
3'll
WRITE TO DESK “ft" FOB A FREE COPY OF OUR NEWLY-PRINTED SPRING AND SUMMER CATALOGUE !
THE WORLD’S LARGEST MEN’S AND BOYS’ WEAR STORE.’


jpfi XX (^ujiA^riA/Le^p^.
\iMSWttuahc
/J^%\
UNION
UNION VSUPER
SPIRIT
537
•v ;vv\
•v ,♦//.
•V W
V *vv
♦/ »Vj>
/*\
o
2
i
r
ill!
,
\
I
M
r
/
_L-
-5
Union Super Spirit
is non-detonating —*< ea?-
plodes like smokeless
powder in a naval gun . . .
with a progressive and
sustained explosion. It
thrusts the piston down
with a powerful but con-
tinuous impulse not a
sledge-hammer blow. This
means more compression,
more power, greater effi-
ciency, and more miles to
the gallon. It’s truly a
Super Spirit—and it’s red.
t know a super spirit when I meet it. You
can’t trick an experienced carburettor. I
know the difference between ordinary motor spirit
and super spirit. And I know, too, that there’s
only one super spirit —it’s red, and it comes from
the Red, White and Blue pump. That’s Union.
" Since I’ve been fed with it I’ve felt years younger,
and the engine has begun to swank like a next
year’s model. Every part of the car is doing more
and better work—all except the gear selector,
he’s had a lazy life. On the hills where he was
previously called into action, now he’s forgotten,
for the Super Spirit sends us over the top on top.
"And red juice in the tank means reduced cost of running. Every
drop is full of power, and I’m the chap who ought to know.
Red Union Super Spirit is a comfort to a carburettor and an
inspiration to any engine. Fill up with Red Union and prove it.
ft*
UNION
non- detonating
SUPER SPIRIT
“ The Running Mate of Atlantic Motor Oil 99
■SP3


X
J
9ti(asifk
Vuhfo
JZnen
<©R ANY WOOLLEN ARTICLE WITH
CASH'S NAMES
“A Few Stitches and They’re on*’*
Fadeless
and
Putable
K.S.Tatboh
Actual
Size of
Style No. 2
Sold by all Best Drapers.
Write fot Name Style Circular to
J. & J. CASH PTY. Ltd
£S CUBITT STREET. RICHMONO
MELBOURNE. -
f\ PRICES^
12d0 2
6doz.-s'"
x 3 dot • 3'&"
9
uarantee of Wentworth Service,
Smart people—the leaders—always congregate at the Went-
worth —the most efficiently-managed hotel in Australia.
They know, from their personal experience, the real mean-
ing of service which is personally guaranteed by Mrs. H.
Maclurcan, the Governing Director.
Wentworth comfort and cuisine is a byword among
seasoned hotel guests.
Wire or write for reservations.
Ohe Wentworth
Church Hill,
Sydney.
V
1
Cndei s
/Royal
~VVkrant
Vintage' 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
Torn
George V
CHAMPACHC
QiarlesHddsieo^
REIMS
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayser
SHEER
CHIFFON
SILK
STOCKING
Gloves for evening wear are in again,
according to this Letter’s report from London.
They match either your shoes or your
jewellery. The all-round pleated skirt is
dead; any fullness starts below the hips.
Skirts for day wear are longer and very
slinky; we’ll all have to pad along like pan-
thers to be in the picture. Sophistication
has come in as a swing-back from the artless
childishness of frocks and jewellery of last
year. Everything is cut on straight, close-
fitting, figure-revealing lines, so that every-
body looks slim; but the over-attenuated
female must put on a few pounds, for . the
edict is that you must not be gaunt. Beaded
frocks will again decorate the dancing floor.
Earrings and bracelets are out. Pearls give
place to diamonds. The mineral kingdom is
ransacked for the emblazoning of evening
frocks, and tin will be used in quite an osten-
tatious manner—with maybe coal-nugget
embroideries for our own very rich if the
Maitland madness continues,
A gentleman waving a white banner
blazoned “Bavin, Beware! You Have Sold
Us to the Pope!” was the most spirited
thing at the opening of Parliament the other
day. There wasn’t much pomp or circum-
stance about the rest of it. A thin line of
khaki provided a guard of honor for Sir Dud-
ley, who was carried into the old Macquarie-
street gateway on a seventh wave of sound,
very handsome and at home in his Admiral’s
kit. With him were Commander Garsia and
Colonel Hardie, Brig.-General Anderson and
Major. Longfiekl Lloyd. On the stops and
balconies of Parliament House wives and
daughters and sisters of politicians stood
getting a thrill out of the radiant day and
the goings-on at the somewhat rickety
entrance to the local Tower of Babel.
On consideration it seems that the triumph
of the morning went to the Police Band,
''ho hasn’t heard of the "blase, modern,
world-weary men and women who inhabit
the earth to-day? Nothing can quicken their
pulses, and to them the things that amused
our fathers and mothers are as so many
rattles for the baby. Don’t believe it! At the
first bang of the drum and the first blare of
the brasses, _up Hunter-street, up Bligh-
street, up Bridge-street men and women ran
and panted and jog-trotted to the band’s lure!
Out of little shops and garage entrances they
popped and hurried till they got a good stand
m Macquarie-street.
Down the street itself, at the moment
Lamel Levy in his Speaker’s wig and Pro-
fessor Peden in his head-dress (peculiarly
reminiscent this of a cocker spaniel’s ears)
were drinking in his Excellency’s opening
words, past the House moved in solemn and
sign meant procession a garbage cart, a lorry
ot dirt and a laundry waggon.
The men’s Pioneer Club is no longer a
bachelor. It has its better half —a women’s
society. Formed only a few months ago, it
lias already a membership of 150. The other
day it elected its office-bearers: Mrs. W. A.
Lingham became first president, Carlotta
Jloyle its secretary and Alma Laycock its
treasurer.
Those kind-hearted Rotarians are on the
way to bring a lot of happiness and health
children of Sydney and its
suburbs. Already their plans to gain for
all such sufferers the best medical attention
is bearing fruit, and the first step, enrol-
ment, is well under weigh. The idea is to
have every crippled boy and girl under 21
listed. After registration, the parents or
guardians of each child will receive due
notice that a medical examination is avail-
able. The Committee of Reference includes
medical knights Clubbe and Jarvie Hood.
Dr. F. Brown Craig, Dr. G. H. Abbott and
Dr. Harvey Sutton. Reports of similar sur-
veys in other cities say that nearly 50 per
cent, of crippled children treated are restored
to normal health and 25 per cent, are made
at least self-sustaining, -while most of even
the worst cases among the remaining quarter
are greatly benefited. The Rotarians have
already subscribed ever £lOOO for the pre-
liminary investigation. Inquiries can be
directed to the Crippled Children Service,
Box 3545 RR, G.P.0., Sydney.
Knight James Barrett and Mrs. Angela
Booth, the king and queen pins of the Racial
Hygiene Conference, shared a homely lunch
with the Society of Women Writers. The
doctor talked modestly of the bush nursing
centres of Victoria. These are, unlike the
bush nursing centres of this State, almost
all complete with hospital. In one year they
introduced three thousand citizens to the
world, and only one thought it not worth
while to carry on the acquaintance. Mrs.
Booth, her clever eyes looking on the world
with a disconcerting clearness, around her
throat a gypsy of a scarf so flauntingly
yellow it positively broke the law, talked
of the necessity for applying a moral vacuum-
cleaner to our cities. And while it applauded,
this Letter felt a sneaking sympathy for the
sisterhood, and refused to regard the males
of the species as so many innocent Josephs
about whom the law has to throw protecting
arms. After all, demand creates supply
quite as often as supply creates demand.
The Racial Hygiene Congress has been a
positive rival in popularity to the Talkies
and has put a few wrinkles into the brows of
leading citizens. Especially the statement of
eye-specialist Dr. Brooks that, even after
30 years’ or more of decent family life, the
wild oats sown in youth are liable to sprout
a crop of disaster.
The showy party of the week-end was the
dance of the First Cavalry Division. That
one-time Fashion’s rendezvous Paddington
Town Hall knew a second blooming when
spurs jingled around its floor and its walls
glittered with crossed scimitars and other
cutlery. Although a knife, even a butcher’s
knife, is plebeian, a scimitar or anything that
carves up the limbs of men is aristocratic.
So the Paddington Town Hall knew its
visitors to be quite socially correct, even
before the arrival of General Macartliur
Onslow and his lady. The State vice-regais
also found their, way to the affair; Lady
de Chair had unhooked one of the nicest
frocks in her wardrobe for the night, and
was handsomely bound in blue sky and black
shadows —or as near thereto as a mere
clothes creator can get. Mrs. Onslow's gold
laces were flared and long at the back. The
General Heritages moved in the pattern of
the night, she in mulberry lace and chiffons.
Secretary Lieut. Malloy was host to a group
notable for good looks and gaiety; the
treasurer, Colonel H'oad, and Mrs. Hoad sat
among the mighty, with the dance’s presi-
dent, Colonel Mills, and Ms wife ; and Major
Clarke, Major Fewtrell and Major Ferguson
were active in seeing that the dance was no
minor flutter. Iceland poppies ran riot in
the supper-room; and on the official table
something as big as a baby’s bath, but which
is the regimental bowl of the First Cavalry
Division, was brimming over with these
beautiful harbingers of catarrh and hay
fever.
This photograph of Mrs. Frank Albert w T as
taken by Alan Row just before the Royal
Motor Yacht
Club’s dance
was set in
motion. The
flutter was the
high - voltage
success of last
week, and Mrs.
Albert, by her
energy and in-
terest, was to
a great extent
responsible. In
both the New-
castle and
Pittwater
branches of the
club Mrs.
Albert, whoso
husband was
formerly, com-
modore of the
Royal Motor
Yachtsmen, is
noted for her
hospitality. The welfare of the Sydney Uni.
is another of the lady's interests, and she
and her husband are the centre of a group
at most academic gatherings in the Great
Hall.
“Spring!” cried the garland across the
stairway to the palm court of the Ambas-
sadors the other night. But, inside, it wasn't
easy: with 700 people at the Royal Motor-
yacht Club dance, one had work enough
sometimes even to move. The congestion was
a pity, for the dance was one of the most
ornately frocked and lavishly decorated of
the season. Peach and plum blossom blazed
in glory from every niche, and columns were
twined thick with spring blossom. On the
tables flower-yachts sailed on violet or daffo-
dil seas. On Commodore Stuart Doyle’s
table a replica of the Mirimar was be-
calmed in a floral backwater.
Novelties weighed heavily on the Commo-
dore’s table, and there was a posy for each
lady. John Garlick and his wife, the Harry
Budges and Dean and Mrs. Talbot repre-
sented State and Church at this table. The
Viking and son Graham arrived in time
for supper, which they snatched between
dances. Lady de Chair didn’t turn up, having
but just returned from Yass; so Sir Dudley
was as the rock of Gibraltar, against which
the blushes of the little debs, beat in rosy
waves. Mrs. Doyle stage-managed their
transit, while the electrics above the band-
stand seemed to wink more fiercely than
ever.
Feriwinkle-blue georgette and lace mingled
in Mrs. Frank Albert’s frock, and melted in
with tlie seaweed-pink laces worn by Admiral
Evans’s lady. Son Alexis was in this party,
as were Betty Grace and Nuttie Gilder and
P. Tewkesbury, just back with a swagful
of pelts and stories. The Commodore of the
Broken Bay Club, W. J. Fitzpatrick, aided
and abetted by Mrs. Fitzpatrick, entertained
nobly. Commodore Reid and Treasurer
Lawson came to represent Newcastle. Mrs.
Harry Budge was swung round in the arms
of the tall Viking like a decorative little
doll; and other couples noticed among the
700 were the Richard Strelitzes, the Hermon
Slades, the A. D. Walkers (she in handsome
black and gold), and the Ministerial Butten-
shaws.
May Moore’s camera has here caught the
bright smile of Olive Angelinetta, the popular
and energetic secretary of the Girls’ Secon-
dary Schools’ Club. This, though one of the
newest and
youngest clubs
in Sydney, has
already turned
its thoughts
towards help-
ing the city's
charity move-
ments. This
year the tak-
ings from club
entertainments
are for the
benefit of the
Rachel Forster
Hospital for
Women, and
the week-end’s
bright produc-
tion of “Qual-
ity Stre e t”
brought in
quite an im-
pres s i v e
cheque. This
was the first entertainment held by the club
outside of its own four walls, and much
of the credit for the big hotises in the King’s
Hall goes to the untiring efforts of the girl
in the picture.
The Kelso King family had a night out
when the Royal Life Saving Society held
its annual jig last week. The Town Hall
again masqueraded as a cabaret: discreet
red curtains were drawn to form supper
recesses. Kniglit Kelso is president of
the Life Savers, and his lady and daughters
Olive and Hazel showed approval of his
work by a radiant arrival in eye-arresting
clothes. The lady wore black chiffons mingled
with palest pink and starry with diamente;
poetess Olive was wrapped in georgettes as
suggestive of the grape as a Swinburne
ballad, while Hazel wore chiffons splashed
with amber. Commander Garsia was one
of the night’s personalities; so were Harvey
Prior, Ralph Ford, L. McEnally and C. ii.
Evans, to whom certificates for conspicuous
bravery in rescue-work were handed.
Brose and heather, border raids, the
King across the water, Alan Breek and a
thousand and one lost causes flashed into the
mind and stirred the blood in the veins
when Pipe-Major Mackay got into action at
the Ambassadors the other night and piped
members of Scops College Old Boys’ Union
into the ballroom. Glengarry caps were pic-
torial, but could add nothing to the atmo-
sphere created by the pipes. The Scottish
ensign and the college banner played a large
part in the decorative scheme. From presi-
dent E. R. Cox’s table rose a tiny flagpole,
its base massed with delphiniums and daffo-
dils, at its head a pennant bearing the col-
lege badge. Minister for Education Drum-
mond, a Scots old boy, was at this table,
over which Mrs. Cox, in flowing white georg-
ettes, helped her husband to preside.
Something new in table decorations was
shown by Mrs. Garnet Malley, wife of the
well-known air man, at the Sports Girls’
Ball. She turned her table into a facsimile
of the Mascot aerodrome. Toy hangar,
bowser, planes, motor-cars, fire-engine and
ambulance and Noah’s Ark trees were all on
the field, while above hovered two model
’planes straining at the tethers of colored
lights which connected them with the table.
The night’s takings go to the City Girls’
Amateur Sports Association. A feature of
the evening was a pageant of girlhood, a
pretty bit of Turkish delight arranged and
produced by Ethelwyn Kirk.
Fair Doris Vale, whose family was among
the first flat-dwellers on Kirribilli Point, was
handed into matrimony by her father one
afternoon last week. Doris is the only
daughter of the Fred Vales, and she
and mother have been consistent workers
for the limbless soldiers. She stood up to
the vow-making in St. Mary’s in a well-cut
three-piece in pale golden tones, and carried
wallflowers and daffodils. Having no train,
she dispensed with bridesmaids. The ’groom
was E. S. de Tourret, and the breakfast,
strictly limited to covers for the family, was
eaten at 52 Macleay-street, the headquarters
of the bride’s parents.
Yards of tulle like a frothed-up sherbet
surrounded Marion Spring, of Mosman, when
she became Mrs. William Kenneth Mac-
Kenzie at St. Philip’s Church on a warm,
pittosporum-drenched night of last week.
Marion, whose father is the chief of Metters,
Ltd., wore an ivory satin garment moulded
to the figure, and carried a sheaf of hya-
cinths and orchids. Mrs. J. Hyndes, the
matron of honor, and ’maids Beatrice Warren
and Rosemary Spring were frocked alike in
anemone pink laces, and carried pink camel-
lias to tone with their floppy summer felt
hats. Bride’s brother Reg was best man and
Frank Hodgson groomsman. Later over 100
guests arrived at the Wentworth laden with
congratulations.
A wedding that stirred the Synagogue at
Newtown had Hyman Lenzer, the eldest son
of Rabbi and Mrs. Lenzer, of Newtown, as
bridegroom. The bride, who came from
Perth, was Bertha Morris. Her frock com-
bined ivory velvet and chiffons, cut to the
figure and then flowing out into a peacock
back brave with chiffon frills. The long
wash of tulle veil was followed by Lily and
Eve Lenzer, in pale gold and green georgettes.
Nornie Stedman, a pink satin edition of Kate
Greenaway, was cast for flower girl. Toasts
at the Oriental.
Tucked away in the private ballroom of
the Ambassadors, far from the gargantuan
noises of the Motor-yacht Club dance, a
bride and her ’groom with sixty of their
friends made merry. The lady' was Jean
Winter from Mungindi, and the bridegroom
Walter Rayner, of Palm Beach. Padre
Hugh Paton, who had made them one earlier
in the evening at St. Stephen’s, also blessed
the feast. The wedding garment was of
ivory satin, its peacock skirt forming the
train. A veil of Honiton lace and a great
cluster of hyacinths and carnations added
their splendor to the picture. The groom’s
sister, Mrs. Y. Jenkins, was matron of
honor, and Ivy Baker the bridesmaid in
translucent greens.
Essie Hebden, of Strathfield, stayed in her
own parish for her plunge, and the local St.
Ann’s heard the vows that made her Mrs.
Francis Kellett Gunter. Sister Edna in
spring-like greens followed the bridal georg-
ettes and tulle, and Mr. and Mrs. S. P. Heb-
den later did the honors at the Strathfield
Town Hall.
A gold altar and white satin cushions to
kneel on were added to the reception-room of
Rowallan when daughter Norah married
Norman Graham, of Wollaroy, Penshurst.
The wedding raiment was an ethereal affair
of blue and silver, and orchids provided
occupation for her' hands till the ring
arrived. Jessie Bowden ’maided in geranium
red georgettes that crescendoed to a hat of
the same tone. George Graham best-manned
and Padre Frank Elliott (St. Mark’s) tied
the knot. Mrs. Lily Bowden, the bride’s
mother, staged the reception in rooms golden
faith daffodil, primrose and wallflower; the
twilight grey of her hat and frock toned in
gently with these.
Another graceful week-end bride of St.
Philip’s was Ada Cavaye, formerly of Logan
Downs (Q.), who became the wife of Dr. J.
H. Thorpe, of Manly. Toasts at Petty’s.
Margery Potts will be married to Gordon
Innes, of Burma, next month. The wedding
will take place at St. John’s in Darlinghurst,
and a week later the two will sail by the
Maloja. Enid Boyd, who is visiting brother
Eric at Taiping in the Federated Malay
States, is hurrying back to Sydney by the
Nieuw Holland to take over Margery’s job
of kindergartcning at the C. of E. Grammar
School. Incidentally, Margery is being
snowed under with good wishes. One letter
of congratulation came from a cousin far
away in that little Maxwellton where fair
and faithless Annie Laurie had her being.
The Scots cousin last saw Margery when
she was a baby, and the families had com-
pletely lost knowledge of one another. But
The Bulletin finds its way everywhere, and
in its Woman’s Letter the cousin read of
Margery’s engagement.
A soldiers’ friend went out with the pass-
ing of Sister J. O. Throsby, matron for so
many years of Rose Hall, the Red Cross
home for limbless soldiers in Darlinghurst.
Sister Throsby, who received her training
at the Children’s Hospital, volunteered for
service, early in the war, and, after working
some time at the War Office in London, was
drafted to Richmond Hospital, where she was
until the Armistice. She died from injuries’
received in a motor accident.
Quite a bevy of beauty is running the
dance to raise funds for the Free Kinder-
gartens. Enid Linton is the organiser and
her enthusiasm has fired a committee that
includes Mrs. Pat Levy, Nell Cobcroft, Enid
Hull and Rita Cullen Ward. Romano’s on
October 15 will ring with the revels. Jean
Arnott is the secretary.
That successful yearly fixture, the Rand-
wick Race Ball, will be held at the Palais
Royal on October 8. Mrs. S. Munro is
president: secretaries, Mrs. J. C. J Ryan
(FX 1561), Elsie Corry (FX 4022) and
Eileen Tier.
The Empire Service Club, with Mrs.
Jessica Lee at the helm while Dr. Mary
Booth is on her travels, will benefit by a
bridge party on October 1. David Jones’s
ballroom will be the scene, and one of the
prizes is a beautiful black opal, Percy
Marks’s gift.


HOBART
INVITES
YOU-
to indulge in the joy of a
holiday amidst the con-
genial surroundings o f
Australia’s natural health-
resort,
TASMANIA.
Perfect climate, fertile soil,
rivers, lakes, mountains
and harbors.
Fruit and flowers grow in
profusion all over the
island.
HOBART,
Australia’s most beautiful
capital, is the centre of
these charms.
Particulars from
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAU,
Ocean House, 34 Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Experimenting
How much a year do
you waste in unneces-
sary Experiments?
Cut Waste and
Advertise with a
“Result-Bringer”
Che telegraph
BRISBANE
Has proved itself for
over 57 years a good
“Result-Bringer” for
alj Advertisers.
Che telegraph
newspaper Co. Ctd.
Queen & Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, artists, designers,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
■
BRITISH
Perfection
PirSK. RUBBER.
On time
-all the time
Punctuality—the one
essential of social or
business life—is as-
sured to every wearer
ofa“CYMA” Watch.
To people who mat-
ter in the world of
affairs, the words
“CY M A” and
Pu nctuality are
synonymous.
Charming
Gift
X
be
SH
2-
i iiM
3S& :»
Kr
l*g*l
(JowTuJiall,
Melbourne, Vic
Wj&Sgf^g&sss*
.
i-.'-S
V3iS?#
■'
SBf
» r -f ";
--
:
:T •/
u
M
Exclusive
For a lasting gift, or as a piece of exquisite
personal jewellery, a “CYMA Watch is
always in perfect taste on all occasions. Plus
this —there is the assurance of speedy and
economical repair in case of accident as all
“CYMA” parts are interchangeable and
carried by all good jewellers.
CYMA
WATCH E S
Winner Last Year
J. R. Jeffrey, Kojarah, N.S.W.
This may be your
Lucky Year !
DON’T DELAY
Buy your
TICKET
To-day
Drawn 16th NOV., 1929
Tickets I/* obtainable
from Local Agent
or direct from
A. W. YAGER. M.IX
Secretary,
Trades Halt,
Sydney
\
fsd
t
I
p.
vte
flood
a ND £4O«
OWlOthenPrcm
Epicurean taste finds perfect
gratification in these famous
Havana Cigars. See full name
on every band.
“la corona
HALF-A- C ©FIONA
ANCONAS
Exhibition and Tested Stock, laying eggs up to 30oz.
to dozen. Winners of 12
Cups and Medals. Can supply
setting eggs and chicks at
all ages.
SICILIAN BUTTERCUPS
AND BARNEVELDERS.
Setting Eggs and Chicks.
Send for New Catalogue.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
L. DEVINE,
MYRA STREET,
WAHROONGA, N.S.W.
f ,
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN “TYPE C”
SWITCH.
HTHE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 19929/24 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or for
the granting of a license to make, use and
vend the invention within the Commonwealth
of Australia on reasonable terms. Particu-
lars obtainable from Griffith and Hassel,
Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN VISIBLE
INDEXES.
"“THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
A No. 25284/25 is prepared to negotiate for
the sale of its rights in the above, or for the
granting of a license to make, use and vend
the invention within the Commonwealth
of Australia on reasonable terms. Particu-
lars obtainable from Griffith and Hassel,
Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN STOOKERS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 9299/22 is prepared to negotiate for
the sale of his rights in the above, or for the
granting of a license to make, use and vend
the invention within the Commonwealth of
Australia, on reasonable terms. Particu-
lars obtainable from Griffith and Hassel,
Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney. '
PIE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 19930/24, in respect of an invention
entitled “Improvements in Double Cushion-
ing Pneumatic Operating Mechanism for
Elevator Doors,” is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or tor
granting of a license to make, use and vena
the invention within the Commonwealth ot
Australia, on reasonable terms. Particu-
lars obtainable from Griffith and Hassel,
Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
THE
1 \T«
proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 19932/24, in respect of an invention
entitled “Improvements in Combined Door
Closer and Switch (Power Operation), is
prepared to negotiate for the sale of it»
rights in the above, or for the granting or a
license to make, use and vend the invention
within the Commonwealth of Australia on
reasonable terms. Particulars obtainable
from Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorneys,
of 77 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
"HE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
■ No 19931/24, in respect of an invention
ititled “Improvements in Combined Door
loser and Switch (Hand Operation),
repared to negotiate for the sale of it
gilts in the above, or for the granting ot *
cense to make, use and vend the inven
ithin the Commonwealth of Australia
nsonable terms. Particulars obtainable
om Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorneys,
f 77 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
TONES, JAMES SYDNEY, eldest son of
•J late J. 0. Jones, Mt. Keira, please com-
municate J. W. RUSSELL, Solicitor, Wol-
longong. Information his benefit.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN’*
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Monday
PRICE 3d.
It deals r ith every subject of
interest to women.


“WALLARINGA” MANSIONS
A
..rr^fr..
■r. +XL.
NEUTRAL BAY, SYDNEY.
UNDER ENTIRELY NEW MANAGEMENT.
Occupying as it does, one of the picked
positions and absolutely the healthiest
on the shores of Sydney Harbor, quiet
and secluded, and within a short
distance of the City.
The Mansions are exceptionally well
built, having fine airy rooms over-
looking Sydney’s beautiful harbor;
also Lounges, Smoking Rooms, Tennis,
Croquet, Swimming Baths, Ball Room,
Guests’ Laundry, Electric Light.
The “Wallaringa” Mansions stand in
a fine position in Neutral Bay, and
the grounds and gardens are well kept.
During the day the views from “Wal-
laringa” are glorious, and at night
the myriad lights, across the harbor
and on the numerous Ferry Boats,
make a fairy-like scene that world-
wide travellers say is unequalled any-
where.
To maintain the reputation of these
well-known Mansions, guests are well
attended to and have every conveni-
ence and comfort. Correspondence
and Telegrams punctually attended to.
Terms from £3/3/- per week.
Apply, The Manager.
’Phones: X 2239, X 2267.
Telegrams: “Wallaringa, Sydney.”
*0
V
Food
Seed. Trade Mark.
it
I don’t like Milk.
Many mothers have this trouble
with the very children who
need milk most.
In nursing homes, hospitals,
etc., they have a way of making
everybody like milk. The
doctors call it Bengerising the
milk—this is really making
fresh mi lk into delicious
Benger’s Food.
Write for booklet to: —BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
99
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
PARADISE PLUMES
BY GILBERT MUNRO TURMBULL
JllujlreJiorxj by O
Synopsis : Returning to Papua
from Sydney, Stephen Blake, Resident
Magistrate, is attracted to Lesley
Rowan, but she is engaged to, and sub-
sequently marries, Harry Merton, a
planter of Akupaka Bay, who has
banished his native mistress, Loana,
and their son. On a visit of inspection
to Akupaka, Blake is told that ghosts
in the shape of humans v:ill make one
of their flits through the village, but
his threat to instal an armed guard
prevents the visitation. Visiting Lau-
bogi, Merton’s plantation, he becomes
suspicious that Merton knows some-
thing of the ghosts, whilst Merton’s
sharp changing of the topic when bird-
of-paradise plumes are mentioned, fol-
lowed by Blake’s statement that shoot-
ing the birds is outside the law, in-
fluences Lesley to destroy a large
bundle of the plumes that was in the
house. At the home of Tod Lorimer,
a rich planter, Lesley becomes friendly
with Lorimer’s half-caste daughter,
Moira. She denies the implication
when Moira questions her about her
love for Blake, but later she has to
say “I love you” to Merton to try to
reassure herself. Blake’s native ser-
geant, Babaka, set to watch, reports
that he has seen the “ghosts” and has
secretly arranged that the R.M. him-
self shall see them when they flit
again. Suspicion deepening, Blake
keeps some of the best men of his
native police when Glover, Assistant
Resident Magistrate, goes away on
patrol. The business relationship of
Merton and Sam Turner, a dipso-
maniac, troubles Blake, especially as
Turner is sending small shipments to
Sydney direct, an unusual procedure.
Examining shipping papers of Tur-
ner’s, Blake is amazed to find that
they had been prepared by Lesley.
CHAPTER XVI ( Continued ).
NEITHER Tod Lorimer nor his daughter
were within the bungalow when Blake
reached Gabubu.
“Taubada go walk-about ’long plantasin,
I t’ink,” Jam tin told him.
Blake passed through the house into the
garden with the intention of seeking Tod
among the palms beyond. His footsteps
made no sound upon the soft turf. Sud-
denly he pulled up. From the heavy shadows
cast by the trees came low voices, and the
sound of a light girlish Hugh, instantly sup-
pressed.
Blake had been brought up in a school
where to think is to act. He dashed into
the shrubbery. A shadowy form rose up
before him. He grappled a moment; he
felt his fingers entangled in a woolly mop,
and with a sudden jerk he dragged his cap-
tive out into the light of the stars.
It was Corporal Konigi. He was not in
uniform.
“What does this mean?” the magistrate
asked icily.
Konigi hung his head. “I come to see
friend b’long me,” he stammered. “Boy
b’long Mis’ Lorimer, sah.”
“Liar!” rasped Blake.
Then he did the unforgivable thing. He
thrust the corporal from him and struck
him with his open hand.
“Get out!” he snapped. “And keep
away from Gabubu.”
Considerably perturbed he continued his
search for Tod Lorimer. He discovered the
old man sitting on a log in the clearing
smoking.
“Where is Moira?” Blake asked, filling
his pipe.
“At ’ome. We gen’ly come out ’ere of
an evenin’; but t’-night Moira ain’t feelin’
too good.”
Blake nodded. There was nothing to be
gained, he reflected, by telling the old man
that his daughter had deceived him; that
at this moment she was hidden within the
bungalow wondering if her presence in the
shrubbery had been detected. There were
ways of managing the affair, ways of check-
ing the philandering of Corporal Konigi
without causing poor old Tod Lorimer pain
and humiliation.
“I have come to see you, Tod,” he said,
“with regard to hiring your launch. I may
require it for some days within the next
few weeks. Is it available for hire?”
“Certainly, Mr. Blake,” Tod assured him.
“Whenever y’ like and for as long as y’
like.”
“Thanks, Tod.” Blake paused. “May I
ask you to keep this business under your
hat? It is extremely private and confi-
dential.”
Tod smiled. “Nobody’ll ’ear anythin’
about it, Steve.”
Blake was sunk in a profound reverie
when, an hour later, the whaleboat slid
alongside the jetty. Uppermost in his mind
was concern for Tod Lorimer. His first
task was to so deal with Corporal Konigi
as to make it reasonably certain that he
would think twice before he attempted again
to philander with Tod Lorimer’s daughter.
There must be no publicity, nothing in the
nature of a scandal, and he must take care
that no whisper of Moira’s backsliding came
to the ears of her father. It would be the
end of old Tod, he knew.
The difficulty was that Konigi had
mitted no offence for which he could be
legally punished. Blake was troubled. He
must think. It was another case that
called for uncommon and unauthorised
treatment.
He disembarked at the jetty, and called
to Sergeant Babaka. “Let the police moor
the whaleboat, Sergeant,” he said. “I want
to talk.”
Babaka followed him to the end of the
jetty. Blake smiled grimly to himself.
These secret conferences with his sergeant
of police were becoming monotonous.
“Can you fight, Sergeant?” he opened
without preamble.
Babaka looked at him a little doubtfully.
“Yessah. Surely!” he answered slowly.
“I can fight after the fashion of New
Guinea, with spear and club; also with
rifle and bayonet, which is the fashion of
the police. Moreover, sah, I can fight with
doubled hands after the fashion of white
men, causing a breaking of teeth, a thicken-
ing of the lips; causing also blood to flow
from the nostrils and”
“That’s all I wish to know, Sergeant.
There is a man, a good man, who in the
fulness of time may wear three stripes.”
“Taubada. I know of such a man, sah.
A Kiwai, sah. Fly River man:”
“Overfond, Sergeant, of walking about
after the sun has set. Overfond of women.
Of women, Sergeant, not meant for the
likes of him.”
“True, Taubada. Such a one I know.
But to-morrow he shall lick himself in the
shelter of his house after the manner of
a sick dog; but first he shall sleep soundly
after I have counted ten according to the
law.”
Blake felt that he would like to see the
old fellow in action. But that, he reflected
regretfully, woidd never do. He was almost
sorrv for the Lothario who had sought to
desecrate old Tod Lorimer’s home.
CHAPTER XVII.
The Terror by Night.
Merton sat hunched in his chair, silent,
brooding. He was thinking of Lesley, the
impenetrability of her manner, the hard
light that had crept into her eyes since then-
tiff of the afternoon. Merton was beginning
to realise that he was in danger of going
too far. There was a lack of enthusiasm
when they “kissed and made up.” This
afternoon she had almost rebuffed him!
He must be careful. There were clouds on
the horizon that threatened the serenity of
his days. She was highly-strung, sensitive,
this wife of his; but she was also a girl of
spirit, a thoroughbred.
He derived a curious measure of comfort
from the thought that most white men in
New Guinea, situated as he had been, were
very much as he was. He had been merely
one of a vast number of free-living, free-
spending Austral-Papuan bachelors who
blasphemed a little, boozed a little and
philandered a little. Some day, when she
had lost her wholly delightful school-girl
outlook, Lesley would understand these
things, and the wall of misunderstanding
which was rearing itself between them would
crumble away.
It was characteristic of the man that he
wasted no serious thought upon the girl
Loana. Never at any time did he enter-
tain any real fear of a resurrection of the
past from that quarter. How many men
in New Guinea, or elsewhere for that
matter, could lay at their wives’ feet a
past that was wholly unspotted? And
what kind of fools or liars were those who
pretended that they could do so?
When one married, naturally one re-
adjusted one’s point of view; but as a
man of broad commonsense he failed to
see anything in the Loana entanglement
with which he need reproach himself. In
his opinion fellows like Blake and Glover
attached an importance to such affairs quite
out of proportion to their real significance
in the scheme of things. As for Loana
herself it was absurd to suppose that her
feelings had ever become deeply involved,
that her affections had ever been seriously
engaged. Natives were not like that, else
there would be hell to pay on the Papuan
coast. The child, of course, had been a
complication, but the most censorious critic
would be compelled to admit that he had
provided handsomely for Pita. He had
given him an environment such as many a
white kid might envy. And so he dismissed
them from his mind.
He turned in his chair and watched his
wife appraisingly as with quick, deft fingers
she arranged sheaves of flowers in the bowls
on the dining-table. He must banish
quickly that hard little look from her eyes;
he must smooth away that pucker of worry
that marred her face; summon back the
gurgling little laugh that had been so silent
of late.
If by some evil turn of the wheel of fate
an inkling of his life with Loana did come
to Lesley’s ears, he had no difficulty in
persuading himself that he would have an
answer ready which would be irrefutable;
that Lesley would of necessity come to view
the situation in its true perspective—as he
viewed it. But to free her from the inhibi-
tions of the suburban conventionalism in
which she had been brought up, he must
have time, and acquire patience.
Merton got up, stretching, and his eye
travelled down the verandah to rest on his
wife. She was reclining in a lounge
immersed in a newspaper that could not
have been less than a month old.
He picked up a table lamp and moved it
closer to her.
“Sorry we wrangled so bitterly this after-
noon, Kitten.” he said with a slow smile.
Lesley looked up. “Did we wrangle,
Hal?” she asked coolly. “I am not aware
of it.” She looked straight at him. “Don’t
you mean, Hal, that you’re sorry you swore
at me? That you’re sorry you applied a
vile gutter name to poor Moira Lorimer?’
Merton appeared taken by surprise. For a
moment he was puzzled, nettled; then,
laughing ruefully, he threw back his head
and moved quickly to her side. He took
both her hands in his and bent over them
with exaggerated homage.
“My dear, you are perfectly right,” he
said tenderly. “I wish only to make you
happy, and I’m not—not succeeding.” He
contrived to insinuate a considerable amount
of feeling into his voice. “I’m domineering,
I know, Les, and I expect far too much
from you, And I’m hasty and short-
tempered, and I’m contemptuous of the
little things you cherish and make much of.
I’m sorry, Les,” he added simply.
Just like a small boy, Lesley thought;
thoroughly ashamed of himself, sincerely
contrite, fired with resolutions never to
offend again.
She rose, turning her head from the ardor
showing in his eyes.
“Sometimes you try me very sorely, Hal,
she murmured. “Please”
His arms engirdled her, and he kissed
her, stifling the sobs that choked her.
After dinner they lingered over their
coffee. Lesley felt strangely reluctant to
let her husband go. A vague foreboding
filled her. Her perturbation of mind was
manifested on her face.
“Must you really see Turver to-night,
Hal?” she asked plaintively. “Cannot you
send one of the boys with his mad. It
cannot be so desperately important.”
“Business, Kitten, business!” Merton
laughed. “I promise faithfully that I shall
not be away for more than an hour or two.”
Lesley was plainly dissatisfied.
“I cannot understand why you have any
intercourse with the man at all, Hal. He
is so obviously not your kind.”
Merton shrugged. “I have already told
you, dear, that I have neither the time nor
the inclination to trade with niggers,” he
explained. “Therefore I let Turver do the
dirty work—finance him and so forth—while
I sit back and take the cream of the profits.”
“Still,” Lesley persisted, “what profit do
you expect to derive from the eight paltry
bags of copra you shipped for Turver on
the Siai?”
Merton glanced quickly at her. Then
he smiled.
“Don’t worry your pretty head over my
trading ventures,” he countered. “Let me
run the show, .and you just be content to
run me.” He stood up and his lips brushed
her hair as he rose. “Back in an hour
or two, Kitten. S’ long!”
He left the room.
“By the way, Les,” he called out frdm
the verandah. “I gave Moragi permission
to hold a ‘sing-sing’ in the compound to-
night. The boys have been going like
scalded cats all day, and the dance is by
way of a bonus. I don’t think they’ll dis-
turb you. Their row will be company for
you, in fact.”
It was dull and lonely in the bungalow
after he had gone. Lesley wandered dis-
consolately on to the verandah and tried
to settle down with a book.
It was a beautiful night—languorous,
calm, wonderfully peaceful. The whole
land seemed to be wrapped in perfumed
mystery. Once more a sense of exaltation
possessed her; once more she thrilled to the
lure of this wonder land.
Presently she tossed her book on to the
table. She found herself utterly unable to
concentrate.
“Dum-dum! Dum-dum! Dum-dum!”
Lesley half rose with a little cry, then
'sank back again smiling. For the moment
she had forgotten the “sing-sing” in the
compound and the first throbbing note of
(Continued on page 51.)


52 Macleay St
Limited
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT, SYDNEY
(Located within the City Boundary, ten
minutes from G.P.0 .)
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 160 rooms, is now open, and
features Single Rooms, Double
Rooms with Bath, and two-, three-
and four-room Suites with Bath.
Central Heating, Hot and Cold
Water, ’Phone and Bedside Lamp
in each room. • Unsurpassed
Harbor views.
Telephone: F 2161 (8 lines).
Telegraphic Address: "Fifmac,”
Sydney.
Brown Calf Sandal, stitched
down stout crepe rubber
soles.
Sizes 3x6 7xlo llxl
Prices 7/11 8/11 9/11
7/11
POST FREE
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE “X”
Iftacnaught
Shoe Stores Ctd. U
MAIL ORDERS 135 KING STREET
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Price 3d.
is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
1214 George Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckler's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
[?]
When the working world of Melbourne
was getting ready for another day of yakker,
and the bargain-hunters were lining up out-
side unopened emporiums one morning last
week, three or four thousand folk went to
Caulfield to see the two-year-old trials. The
course looks very beautiful in the early sum-
mer, and on this occasion the air had a balmy
softness, ■ the lawns were vividly green, and
in the paddock trees were bursting into
leaf. No raucous-voiced bookies called odds,
and only the bell that marked the start and
finish of each heat and an occasional neigh
from an excited entrant broke the silence.
Breakfast was served in the committee-room
—ham and eggs and hot scones. Secretary
Tabart’s wife with Edna and Pixie; Mr.
Wimpole and daughter Nell, the lass looking
cheery in a blue leather coat, a primrose
scarf and beret; R. M. Cuthbertson, watching
one of his gee-gees, and Merson Cooper were
among the early risers who passed judg-
ment on the speedy babies, some of which
are quaintly named. Whyownyou is a Whit-
tier —-Triona gelding belonging to Ben Chaffey,
and W. Mitchell’s Rossendale —Humility colt
is aptly called Uriah Heep. How ‘Sleepy
Head, Luminous Crow and Jazabelle got
their names gives food for guessing.
Richard Linton and his wife gave an
eud-of-the-vacation dance at their home for
a couple of hundred of the school-friends
of their sons. Bob and Dick. The ballroom
of Bona Vista is upstairs and suggests a
huge sleeping-out porch, having windows
which can be slid down into slots like those
of a tram or train. The room commands a
fine view of the city across the Yarra. Mag-
nificent flowers were used in decoration,
regular trees of pear and peach blossom
filling the hall and billiard-room, while daf-
fodils and pink carnations mingled upon the
supper-tables and wattle and grape hyacinths
decked the drawing-room. Mrs. Linton’s
gown was of floral embroidered lame, on
which gleamed oxidised net, and she wore
a bridge-coat closely related in hue. There
was a sprinkling of grown-up guests, amongst
them the H. J. Mansons, Colonel Knox,
Colonel Burrett, Mrs. James Purves with
daughter Valerie, who wore black taffeta
and tulle, and Mrs. L. A. Middows, who
brought her daughter May, wearing a
flounced frock of patterned taffeta finished
with a lace fichu.
The dressing of the flappers was a matter
of laces, chiffons, georgettes and satins,
draped or dipped in the mode of the moment.
The Phil Finkelsteins’ daughter had her
pigtails dangling upon an iris mauve taffeta
and tulle frock. Nancy Dean’s bouffant frock
was of mingled blue and pink. Her cousin
Joyce Dean jazzed in pale green lace; Mrs.
W. B. George’s daughter Betty sported pink
sprinkled with dewdrops, and Enid Stewart
had a big hip-bow hitched to her draperies
of royal blue lace.
Lately the Women’s Institutes of the Vic-
toria League became incorporated with the
Country Women’s Association, Elsa Grice
retaining her office as chairwoman of this
department of the C.W.A. For a couple of
years the W.I. contributed to the entries of
the women’s industries section of the R.A.S.
show, but this season the amalgamated or-
ganisation held a two-days’ exhibition of
handicrafts of its own in the upper hall of
the Town Hall. The Creswell lady, a very
active patron of arts and crafts, launched the
show on Friday afternoon. Interest in the
admirable and comprehensive collection was
increased by the Masson lady’s loan of speci-
mens of old and modern needlecraft. Among
the antiques was part of a set of wool-
embroidered linen bed-drapes which were
worked by Mary Queen of Scots. Mrs.
Murray Waller, secretary of the C.W.A., lent
a gypsy’s shawl of more than a century ago.
Some rare lace, white embroidery, tapestry
and tatting were carefully protected by glass.
On passing the doorkeeper the eye was
caught by the many hand-made rugs, the
materials used being wool or any old pieces
of fabric, worked with a hook. The rugs
were fashioned in intricate designs, and
many would have passed for woven carpets,
so neatly were they made. Mrs. McMillan,
of Terang, a prize-winner, fashioned one
with a fawn background and geometric corner
designs in soft-pink. Much more elaborate in
conception w-as that made by Mrs. Kirk-
patrick, of Beaufort, who wove into her
effort a Japanese landscape in natural colors.
Another clever competitor chose two black
cats seated before a fire with a swinging-pot
aloft, a kettle and a teapot on the hob. A
thrift competition brought forth innumer-
able artistic articles, many fashioned of
hessian or sacking formed into attractive
aprons, bags and such. Luncheon- and cake-
tins effectively painted in biscuit-hue with a
spray of fruit thereon were on this stall,
also useful things that had their origin in old
stockings.
As is mostly the case where the country
woman is concerned, the white work was. of
high standard. Worthy of special attention
were a cloth and mats in Richelieu em-
broidery by Miss F. M. Daley; a crochet
border for a supper-cloth by Mrs. J. Richard,
of Crib Point; and a Limerick lace handker-
chief made by Miss Cogger, Upper Macedon.
In Mrs. C. H. Cragg, of Flinders, was dis-
covered a remarkable worker, for she
fashioned a beautifully tailored suede sports
coat, lined with leather. Mrs. Stavely. of
Mildura, was represented by fur-backed
kid motoring gloves. The quilts sent in
were very varied. One was in crazy patch-
work of velvets ; another, beautifully padded,
was in two shades of pink. Leather and
raffia articles, tempting cakes, bottled fruits
and preserves, and boxes of sweets were
included in a fine show —a credit to- the
C.W.A. and to the organising secretary,
Miss A. Russell.
The Homoeopathic Hospital’s diamond jubi-
lee was celebrated with a ball at the Ist. Kilda
Plaza on Thursday night. The attendance was
stimulated by the awarding of prizes to lucky
patrons, among the inducements offered being
a return sea trip to Sydney given by a shipping
firm, and a week-end at the Clifton Springs
golf-house. Also there was a lucky bowl to
dip into. Lud Mayor Luxton and his wife
had another night out, she in black georgette,
topped by a black velvet wrap collared with
white fur. Mrs. A. E. Goller, who was
arrayed in black with a subdued sparkle,
was the hon. sec., having Mildred McKenzie
as assistant.
The Plaza was the scene of the Aero
Club’s Ball last week, atmosphere being given
more or less by a back curtain on the
stage picturing the Essendon ’drome. The
club’s badge figured on bannerettes hanging
from the balcony, and the names of famous
Australian airmen, laurel-wreathed, appeared
on plaques attached to the supporting pillars.
The De Havilland co. sent quantities of
balloons, each traced with a brown moth,
and there were paper parachutes which
descended upon the dancers. On opening,
some of these disclosed a ticket for a free
flight with one of the A.C. pilots. The club’s
secretary, Captain Guy Moore, who had
charge of the arrangements, which included
entertainment by some theatrical artists,
earned the right to pat himself on the back.
Lud Mayor Luxton was there with Mrs.
Luxton, whose black gown shimmered with
jet, and Lt.-Col Brinsmead brought Mrs.
Brinsnfead, also in black. The club’s presi-
dent, Cecil McKay, was accompanied by
Mrs. McKay, in black chiffon splashed with
fawn and red roses. Squadron-leader
Graham Dawson’s wife wore a striking frock
of beaten silver with a gleam of sapphire.
Mrs. G. Moore’s georgette gown of apple
green floated in broken lines. Commodore
and Mrs. J. B. Stevenson, she in black net;
Wing-Commander and Mrs. A. T. Cole; Mr.
E. C. Penny, the club’s treasurer; Mr.
and Mrs. Bland; Mrs. Penny; the Neville
Faulkners; and the W. M. Robins were
among the dancers.
The Chatterer hied her to the R.A.S.
grounds at Flemington the day before the
show opened and made for the pavilion de-
voted to women’s industries. Mrs. Schwieger,
wife of the
R.A.S. secre-
tary, who for
the last ,13
.years has re-
lieved her hus-
band of the re-
sponsibility for
this section,
though still by
rights on the
sick list was
at her post
directing the
arranging of
piles of needle-
craft and a
tempting col-
lection of culi-
nary efforts.
In spite of
illness, Mrs.
Schwieger, pic-
tured here by
Lafayette,
visited many agricultural shows in the
United States and in Europe during a recent
voyage abroad, but found that women’s work
as we understand the term had no place in
their displays. At the Melbourne R.A.S.
show it is an important feature. The many
judges and stewards of the fair sex who
assist in running this section give their ser-
vices gratuitously.
This year the judge of the plain sewing
entries commented that they had never been
so good. In handicrafts and arts, however, a
slight falling off is reported. Needlewomen
come and go, and few ever reach the standard
set by Roma Field, Olive Garden and
Mrs. Vaughan, who again are among the chief
prize collectors. Miss Fields’s exhibits
include a cushion and cloth in Russian cross-
stitch, the background of blue stitches throw-
ing into relief dragon-like figures lined in
red. A linen cloth shown by Miss Garden
features an apple-tree design in color, fruit
from the overladen tree rolling around as
a border. Mrs. Vaughan repeats her success
of last year with a lace-like crocheted table-
cloth. She has crocheted the linen centre
and hem as well as the circle of filet lace
which unfolds in its design a picture in
the Japanese style entitled “In an Oriental
Garden.” A non-competitive entry in the
white work section is an exquisite specimen
of embroidery and drawn thread which Mrs.
Schwieger purchased in Switzerland. A
crochet quilt of elaborate pattern has been
sent in by an enthusiast of 86. Feminine
eyes will be delighted by the display of lin-
gerie embellished with Richelieu and wee
embroidery. The dressed dolls case is another
halting point, where the outstanding puppet
is a Highland lassie in Stewart tartan, the
costume correct in every detail.
An audience that gladdened with its num-
bers the management, and with its warm
applause the artists, streamed into the Town
Hall for the Giannini farewell concert last
week. Dusolina discovered that draughts
are not peculiar to Sydney’s Town Hall. The
gentle zephyr that slid in between the cur-
tain’s division fanned her diaphanous winged
sleeves vigorously; and accompanist Molly
Bernstein, who was right in the breeze’s
path, must have been nearly frozen. Never-
theless Giannini smiled and sang her best,
attired in vellum-toned satin, with sleeves of
apple-green georgette that swept the plat-
form. Posies of daffodils, heath and violets
were laid at the lady’s satin-slippered feet;
and she gaily blew a kiss or two in farewell.
Miss Bernstein, who was in a frock of blue-
green, and violinist Sol Deutsch shared in
the applause.
The cookery exhibits, reported On by
Inspector Flora Pell, of the Domestic Arts
schools of the Education Department, have
earned that experienced lady’s highest praise.
This Page was permitted to sample a frag-
ment of the first prize plum-cake, cooked by
Mrs. G. Armstrong, and can understand the
judge’s enthusiasm. The most distinctive
iced cake is square and pale pink, with a
decorative frieze of pink roses, grapes, pale
green foliage and true-lovers’ knots of blue
ribbon. The sponge cake, bread, plum-pud-
ding and confectionery offerings prove that
the noble art of cookery is not yet lost in
Victorian households. The bottled fruit, jams
and pickles make .an appetising still-life
study.
Exceptional interest attaches to the one-
woman’s-work section, in which there, are
10 competitors for the big prize. So varied
are the items and so even is the standard of
the collections that the awarding of laurels
was a matter requiring very nice judgment.
These stalls make a regular bazaar in them-
selves. One in its arrangement suggests a
miniature Arts and Crafts depot. Dress-
making, millinery, gardening,, photography
and cooking are among the main crafts
represented in the section, and the ex-
hibits range from evening frock to candles
and soap. Even toys are included in some
instances. An arresting part of the second
prize-winner’s entry is a complete dinner
set up in glass jars—soup, chicken, etc.,
and so on through four or five courses. A
point for the Australian preserving industry
is that this array of bottled foodstuffs looks
far more inviting than any canned stuff could
be, no matter how attractive the label.
Though the pavilion taken as a whole _ is
remarkably free of the crudjties which
usually find their way into such shows, there
are a few entries that look a bit rococo.
There are oils and water-colors a good many
miles behind gallery standard, and there’s
a bead-worked fire-screen depicting a bronze
horse leaping over white hurdles under the
direction of a jockey in a coat of many
colors which would take an awful lot of
getting used to.
For the rest, there are many aristocrats
of the live-stock world —horses and cattle
almost too glossy and majestic to be true,
and rectangular sheep exhibiting in their
manners the calm repose of Vere de Vere.
Dogs had their day, too, and poultry, the
latter providing the time-honored continuous
rooster-crowing competition. In the stalls
that line pavilions and avenue are motor-cars
—new models that glitter dazzlingly. All
this in a setting of flowers. C. E. Isaac, who
has charge of the bits of garden, has trans-
planted in boxes from his nurseries thou-
sands of flowering buttercups, primroses,
cinerarias and other seedlings, now all
a-blowin’ and a-growin’.
Rain poured in a torrent on the morning
of the official opening, when Lieut.-Governor
Irvine launched the Show, and the prospects
of favorable weather don’t look too promis-
ing. But in Melbourne one never knows.
There are many prayers, from the children
in particular, for sunshine to-morrow, the
public holiday for Show-going.
The mid-week dance at No. 9 given by
Emmett and Geraldine, elder son and daugh-
ter of Dr. and Mrs. Jack Spring, of Fitzroy,
was attended mostly by Uni. undergrads.
Miss Spring, who is doing Arts, wore a
basqued and bouffant French model of sky-
blue taffeta embroidered in rosebuds. Dr.
and Mrs. Spring, she in black lace and georg-
ette, welcomed the hundred youthful guests.
Collegiate culture has divorced itself from
dowdiness in this enlightened age, and the
dressing at this hop was charming. La
Newell, of the Apple Isle, wore pale blue
satin slippers with her lemon-colored georg-
ette draperies. Mary Sugden’s powder-blue
net frock was daintily flounced ; Glare Smiley
was surrounded in white tulle frills, and
Miss M. Cantalo achieved a Watteau shep-
herdess effect in her gown of almond-green
and pink taffeta.
Captain W. E. Gardner, instructor of the
Aero Club,
recently took
to himself a
wife, Maud,
third daughter
of the F. Fer-
gus o n s of
Bendigo. Mar-
ried at her
parental home
the bride, pic-
tured here by
Shier, cut out
other unneces-
sary frills, but
wore the usual
chiffons and
lace. She is
as fond of fly-
ing as her
husband is,
and just after
her wedding
received her
A-grade pilot’s license. So far the Gardners
are the only married pair of pilots in the
Commonwealth. The lady, who is a member
of the Aero Club, sails the clouds in a De
Ilavilland Moth. Her husband is a Lon-
doner by birth.
Sheila Buchan, who wedded Lieut. G. C.
Phillips, R.N., at St. Margaret’s, West-
minster, on the .I.4th, had bridal array of
white silk net embroidered with gold beads.
A tulle veil trailed from a coronet of pearls
and orange buds, and she carried a sheaf
of blossoms tied with gold ribbons. IPr
attending maids were Melbourne girls, Kath-
leen Powell and Jean Robertson, in diaphan-
ous gowns of primrose' hue, with millinery
to match.
Cairn’s Memorial kirk in East Melbourne
opened its door and spread a festive carpet
for the knot-tying of Muriel Beatrice, only
daughter of the W„ A. Coles, of Hawthorn,
to Charles, eldest son of the H. T. Bour-
chiers, of Oakleigh. The pretty bride wore
an ensemble of hyacinth-blue georgette and
silk chine, the coat having a comfy collar of
fox fur. The bridegroom’s sister Amy, as
maid, fluttered pink lace draperies, and roses
of velvet embellished her crin. hat. The
after-celebrations were at the Alexander.
Members of the Air Force Officers’ Wives
and Mothers’ Association met at Grong
Grong, Toorak-road, one afternoon last week,
welcoming back after many weeks’ absence
in Sydney their president, Mrs. R. Williams.
Mrs. Eric Harrison, organiser of the ball
for the Air Force Trust Fund, reported that
all was going well. There was tea and
chatter, and Mrs. George Newell read ‘A
Maid of France,” a play by Harold Brig-
house. Mrs. Norman Gadsden sang several
songs, and Mrs. Graham Dawson, who is
shortly returning to England with her hus-
band, Squadron-leader Dawson, unwound the
Air Force hymn.
There was skirling and droning at Scott s
the other night, when Caledonians assembled
and their president, P. R. Sutherland, and
his wife were played in by a trio of pipers.
Accompanying the two so honored w r as Mrs.
Walter Leitch, wife of this. State’s Agent-
General, who was the recipient of a posy.
Scotland was told where she stood in spoken
verse, instrumental music and song.
As a first step providing their quota of
the expenses of delegates attending the Pan-
Pacific Conference, the Women Citizens
movement assembled its members at the club-
room on a recent evening for a “good fellow-
ship at-home.” Plantation melodies were
sung to string accompaniment by the three
Allans, Pauline, Joan and Frank; and
Strindberg’s playlet “The Stronger, m
which there are but two characters,
only one of whom speaks, was per-
formed. Beatrice’ Fenian. was the gai-
rulous lady, and Edna Morris the silent list-
ener. The president of the W.C.M., Mrs.
Britomarte James, Miss Gilman Jones, Mrs.
Warren Kerr and the hon. sec., Mrs. Julie
Rapke, wmre to the fore.
Former students of Melbourne Grammar
School had their yearly hop at St. Kilda
last week. President R. W. E. Wilmot and
his wife, she in deep ivory lace, mingled
with colored and metal embroideries, received
the guests. The Lud Mayor, an old student,
attended with' Mrs. Luxton, whose garnet-
hued gown featured petal flounces.
Painter Arthur Streeton saw his wife and
son off in the Ntstor last week. Mrs. Streeton
is making the trip to place her son in an
English public school.


PEARLS
Specialists in FINE PEARLS
PEARL NECKLACES
Largest Selection in Australasia.
Small Graduated Strands from £lO
Larger Necklaces from £lOO to £5OOO.
Inspection Ccrr'dially Invited.
A selection of Loose Round Pearls of Finest
Quality is always maintained for Aildini.
to Customers’ own Necklaces.
Mail Inquiries receive Prompt
Attention.
Five per cent. Discount for Cask
An experienced, staff attends
:,:to the Cleaning and Re-
i! Stringing of. PEARL
ill Necklaces on
jjy the premises.
'
THE HOUSE FOR FINE PEARLS
344.346 COLLINS ST MELBOURNE
THE WINSTON
SIMPLIFIED
DICTIONARY
ENCYCLOPEDIC edition
•va
PRICE
301-
POST
FREE
Containing 3000
Illustrations,
many of them in
color, and an
Atlas of the World
TABLE OF CONTENTS:
I History and Development of the English Language.
ll -Dictionary of the English Language.
lII Dictionary of Signs and Symbols.
IV Dictionary of Weights, Measures and Standards.
V—Dictionary of Foreign Words and Phrases.
Vl—Dictionary of Persons and Places.
Vll—Dictionary of Phrases.
Vlll—Dictionary of Scottish Terms.
IX Dictionary of Christian Names of Men and Women.
X—Dictionary of Historical Events.
Xl—How to Write English.
XII Atlas and Gazetteer of the World. Thirty-two pages of
Maps. Printed in colors, covering the whole world; and a
complete Statistical Gazetteer, alphabetically arranged, of
10,000 names.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
THE TECHNICAL BOOKSHOP ,
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Four Speed
Advantages
[T wo High Speeds, Standard Gear Shift]
radr-
faAAAAM
PAl££
OrahaM'Paige offers a variety of body
types, including Roadsters, Cabriolets,
Coupes and Sport Phaetons,on five chasses,
in sixes and eights —at a wide range of
prices. All are equipped with four speeds
forward except Model 612.
DRIVING with four speeds forward,
you have two high speeds instead
of one* The gear shift is standard—you
start in second, advance to third, and
then to fourth. First is a reserve speed,
instantly available, but seldom used.
Four speeds forward give a new thrill to
motoring—which we invite you to enjoy.
cwnx
\
/
iii*!!»
Model 615 Five- Passenger Sedan
Graham-Paige Distributors, Australia jind New Zealand
QUEENSLAND MOXON MOTORS, LTD.
NEW SOUTH WALES W. H. LOBER & CO., LTD.
VICTORIA WALTER WHITBOURN PTY., LTD.
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
WEST AUSTRALIA
TASMANIA
MAUGHAN THIEM MOTOR CO., LTD.
ARTHUR BALES, LIMITED.
. .. TWIN-TOP MOTORS PTY., LTD.
WRIGHT, STEPHENSON & CO., LTD.
£AAMAM-PAI&£


■
yaineborouoh Shape.
As beauty should
go beautifully —
JpO Beauty should be
in beauty. It is
unthinkable that Milady’s
guests should take tea in cups
less than perfect in elegance
of form and substance. The
name of Shelley (hidden under
every pieca) promises no less.
English Bone China, fashion-
ed by hereditary craftsmen in
Shelley’s service, can yield
no more—and this is the envy
of potters the world over!
Ask TO see THE. LATEST
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
• China
Nursery Ware
iy Lucie Attweu
& Hilda Cowham
Dome stic Ware
Jelly Moulds
sd
• tUTIiM MAD«
IN CAS« 09 AMV DIFFICUtTV IN OtTAIMIMO
WRITK TO
Amusements.
CYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON. LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: HOLD
EVERYTHING.
(Commencing Saturday.)
ROYAL: IT PAYS TO ADVERTISE, j
CRITERION: LOMBARDI, LTD.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
* MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
SHOW BOAT.
ROYAL:
JOURNEY’S END.
ING ’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
WHOOPEE.
UOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
** MELBOURNE.
See and Hear EDDIE QUILLAN in
SHAW FOLKS.
ALSO
PICCADILLY.
With ANNA MAY WONG.
Daily
Mishaps
Make ZAM-BUK A Daily Need:
When there are children about
you can’t prevent them tumbling
into mischief with their pranks.
But you don’t need to see them
suffer. Keep Zam-Buk close at hand.
Ever-ready and thoroughly anti*
septic Zam-Buk is the best, safest,
and most efficient of home first-aids.
Whether used for a bruised knee,
a cut, poisoned finger, grazed fore-
head, or a burn, sprain, or open
wound, Zam-Buk swiftly takes away
the hurt and soreness and ensures
dean, healthy healing.
To-day. Zam-Buk has its regular place in
tens of thousands of Australian homes.
Use it for cuts, burns, eczema, ulcers,
poisoned wounds, scalp disease, piles, etc.
tonßuk
1/6 box & 3/6 family size.
All chemists.
For Sale and Exchange.
U'' OULDS 3 x 5 Prymid Power Water
Pumps, second-hand. Apply
MIN AH AN BROS., LTD,,
60 King Street,
Newtown, Sydney.
Legal Notices.
'THE next-of-kin of ALICE LOUISA
ELLIOTT, late of Rydalmere Mental
Hospital and formerly of Blayney, or any
person knowing their whereabouts, are
requested to communicate with the under-
signed. Claimants should state relationship
claimed, name of deceased’s father, name of
her mother, and date and place of her birth.
E. J. PAYNE,
Public Trustee,
Sydney.
\TOTICE is hereby given to ELIZABETH
LOUISA CREFTS, formerly Rennick,
formerly Butler (maiden name Elizabeth
Louisa de Val), to send in her claim as
one of the next-of-kin of William Smith de
Val. late of Brighton, England, deceased.
Unless her claim is sent in to E. D.
KEMP, Esq., Public Trustee, Hobart, Tas-
mania, within 42 days from the date of this
issue her claim will he barred.
Missing Friends.
\Y/OODMASON.— If
W Woodmason. forn
James Matthew
Woodmason, formerly of Malvern and
Aamnerdown, Victoria, will communicate
vithUie EQUITY TRUSTEES CO., LTD.,
jf 85 Queen Street, Melbourne, he will hear
something to his advantage.
STACE. —Charles William Stace requested
to communicate with his father’s friend
H.G.S., c/o J. E. COCKER, Collins House,
Melbourne.
YY/ILL MRS. SUSAN GASSON, late of (
w Sutherland Avenue, Paddington, Sydney,
New South Wales (or her representatives),
please communicate with Messrs. Ev LU-
SHED & SHAPLAND, 20 Princes Street
Brighton, England, when she will hear ot
something to her advantage.
§
FOR SALE
VALUABLE
BRISBANE CITY
PROPERTY
(CASH OR TERMS).
THE Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland), Limited, premises, situated at
the corner of Creek and Adelaide Streets, and described as Allotment 12 ot
Section 28, Parish of North Brisbane, having a frontage to Cieek btree o
feet, and to Adelaide Street 132 feet.
The building is considered one of the finest and most up-to-date structures in the
city, consisting of seven (7) storeys, including' basement, constructed o
and cement, and having a floor space of 68,376 square feet.
The property is situated in the most prominent section of the block, whK* is
. recognised as the centre of banking, shipping, insurance and commercial . •,
and the building is particularly well suited for any of the above bianci .
also a first-class position for retail business.
Adelaide Street, which is 80 feet wide, with concrete road throughout, vvith two
lines of trams, is now the second most important street m the city, a y
good judges predict that it will in the near future equal, if ij ot exceed, \
Street for business purposes. Consequently, this building and position .
commend itself to any concern requiring such a proposition.
For Particulars apply the Manager, CANADA CYCLE AND
MOTOR AGENCY (Queensland), Limited, Brisbane.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Center of Queensland's
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The weather smiled upon Ascot for the
Q.T.C.’s September meeting. Amongst the
pretty costumes was that of a Japanese lady
in silk kimono and obi of brocade, carrying
a sunshade over her unhatted head. Mrs.
Cadel-Garrick was in mastic and blue floral
ninon, with a blue hat; Mrs. Ashley Beet
wore fawn and electric blue, with a beige
hat; Mrs. Willie Persse, amethyst chenille;
Mrs. D’arcey Winten, navy, with touches
of jade and scarlet ’broideries, a fox fur
and navy capeline; Mrs. Claude Overell,
rose crSpe de Chine; Mrs. E. K. Tully,
reversible black satin ; Kathleen Hirschfeld,
maize crgpe marocain with sash of maize
and Lido blue; Iris Buchanan brown and
daffodil, and Olga Barnes amber tints with
a Baku hat.
Sir John Goodwin spent part of last week
at Eprapah boy scout training grounds, and
was much interested in the bird- and beast-
life of the scrublands. A sucking pig was
buried in the coals of a big bonfire and left
to cook all day, potatoes were roasted in
the ashes of another fire and a plum-pudding
was boiled in a witch’s cauldron, all of which
provender his Ex. warmly appreciated. Forty
boy scouts of Brisbane and Ipswich districts
were his fellow-diners. A number of silky
oaks, pines and umbrella trees were planted,
making an avenue from the entrance gate
to the scouts’ grounds.
Dame Janet Campbell was given a civic
reception in a setting of pink azalea and
maidenhair in the Mayoress’s reception-room
at the City Hall. Mrs. Jolly wore rose
pink celanese silk with a stone-marten neck-
let and a pink felt hat. Dame Janet was
in fawn tailor-made with a shaded silk jum-
per and feathered felt hat. Before the
reception she visited the Lady Bowen Hos-
pital, where Matron Featherstbnehaugh and
Dr. J. B. Mac Lean received her. The
Women’s Club lunched her at Albert House,
Mrs. E. B. Harris and others hostessing.
Dr. Phyllis Cilento and Mrs. Cumbrae
Stewart were there.
The Johnsonian Club gave a party on
Friday night, the club rooms being decked
with stocks and greenery. Chief Justice
Blair and his wife received the guests, and
there was dancing and bridge. Mrs. Blair
hostessed in floral-patterned light chocolate
ninon with a flower spray on the shoulder.
Her Oriental lame coat had a brown fur
collar. Elsie Stirling also chose floral pat-
terned ninon. Mrs. Alex. McNab’s black
georgette had crystal and rhinestone embel-
lishment. Mrs. F. A. Hughes, Mrs. L. C.
Harden and Mrs. H. R. Garter chose black.
Barbara Sisley produced “Captain Brass-
bound’s Conversion” for the Repertory
and played the role of Cicely Wayneflete,
her attire including a pretty nasturtium
floral frock and big nasturtium-trimmed hat,
a handkerchief linen jumper-suit, rose-
banded, with a smart pink and white hat,
and a riding-suit of cream repp poplin. She
got some beautiful flowers, and there was
a big house.
Dr. Reginald Freshney, whose name has
for so long been identified with good works
done for Toowoomba, passed over last week
at 63. He was born in Maryborough and
graduated at Sydney Uni. He became medi-
cal superintendent at Toowoomba Hospital
in 1895. Recently he celebrated the 25th
anniversary of his chairmanship of the
ambulance. He married pretty Florrie Cax - -
pendale, who died a few years ago, and
leaves four children—Page, Delphine,
Reginald and Frank.
Mrs. Bertha Knight, of Clayfield, who
passed over last week at 82, was the widow
of a one-time Government lithographer. She
arrived in Australia with her parents as a
toddler of three. Mrs. Knight founded the
Brisbane Benevolent Society and was an
active worker for many good causes.
The Michael Rogers (he used to be A.D.C.
to Sir Matthew Nathan) are off to England
for good. They have been staying at Ross
Roy with the Ross-Munroes.
Mrs. Jack Cain has been in Sydney wel-
coming daughter Maisie and her husband,
E. F. Powers, from U.S.A. Mrs. Cain minded
the baby while they were away.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
In spite of the counter attraction of the
September Show —there was a crowd of
over 31,000 on the big day—there was a
good attendance at the Port Adelaide meet-
ing at Cheltenham. The chairman, Dr. A. V.
Benson, and his wife entertained at lun-
cheon and afternoon-tea. The weather was
quite hot, but several women wore fur-coats
over chiffon frocks,- so as to be prepared for
both the worst and the best.
There was an immense influx of visitors
from the country for the Show, and the dis-
play of fruit and vegetables has never been
finer.
The custom of making one day of the Show
“ladies’ day” was instituted years ago. This
year they had a fine day for it. Lancelot
Stirling’s lady, wife of the R.A.S. president,
entertained the feminine guests in the dining-
room. Lady Hore-Rutliven, was there, and
there was a. great gathering of broad-acred
matrons.
The Princess Elizabeth playground, cost
of which comes out of a surplus from the
fund to entertain the ducal Yorks, was
opened amid pomp and circumstance by
Mayoress Bonython. Premier Butler and
nearly all his Cabinet were therealdermen
and councillors by the score, and educational
folk innumerable.
Girl Guides of the Woodlands Company,
Glenclg, have been in camp at Nuriootpa,
under the command of Dorothy Ayres, the
Englishwoman who specialises in that sort
of thing. She takes a lot' of interest in
cookery, and says the Glenelg girls are
the best in that line she has ever struck,
and she has had both English and Canadian
experience. Miss Ayres intends to spend
three months in this State before returning
to Britain.
There’s a charm about children’s voices
lifted in chorus that isn’t wholly dependent
on their musical ability, and when they are
well trained the result is delightful. The
Exhibition Building was over-taxed by the
crowd that assembled to listen to the “Thou-
sand Voices” mobilised by the Public Schools
Floral and Decoration Society. Their Exes,
and Mayoress Bonython were there, and the
youngsters, under Frank Gratton’s direction,
gave a really wonderful performance. A
side-light on a recent controversy between
Bulletin paragraphists on the meaning of
music was shed by the singing of “Holy
Night,” set to a movement from the “Appas-
sionata Sonata.”
Douglas Mawson was given a farewell
sliivoo by the president and council of the
Royal Geographical Society. Allen Simp-
son and his handsome wife received the
guests, who first inspected exhibits relating
to the Antarctic, which included books by
explorers dating back to 1775, and the sleighs,
skis and fur sleeping-bags which were used by
the previous Mawson expedition. After that
came a concert in the lecture hall in the In-
stitute Building, an illustrated address by the
guest of honor, and supper in the Society of
Arts room, where Mrs. Simpson and some
of her friends had laden the tables with the
spoil of their beautiful gardens. His Ex. and
Lady Hore-Ruthven, who had attended
another function, arrived in time for supper.
Alderman Downs, dead at 78, had been in
the City Council since 1893, and never lost
an election. H,is father had a long term
as councillor before him. He was a prominent
Freemason and Anglican churchman, and the
city’s best-known undertaker.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The Percy Hoods, of Sandy Bay, have
reason to be proud of their son John, whose
earnest expres-
sion is pic-
tured here by
Cato. Rhodes
Scholar for
1926, he has
covered him-
self with glory
at Magdalen
College,
Oxford, and
has lately won
first-class hon-
ors in Modern
Greats, the
first time in 37
years that a
Tasmanian has
so distinguish-
ed himself. He
!ias« recently
joined the
literary staff
of the London
Time s. To
equip himself for a literary and journalistic
career he has studied philosophy, politics and
economics, and has travelled extensively in
Europe during vacations.
The Newham R. C. held its opening meet-
ing at Mowbray course in lovely spring
weather. Midlanders rolled up in force to
see Nisservand, ridden by its owner, Rupert
Agnew, win the hunters’ face. Mrs. Guy
Meredith presented the trophies. In the
throng were the Jim Melroses, the R. C.
Fields, Mrs. Ewen Cameron, Mrs. Landon
Fairthorne, the Frere Souls, Dr. and Mrs.
Macnamara, Dr. and Mrs. G. E. Clemons, the
Herbert Dowlings, Mrs. Cam, Hinman, the
J. J. Gatenbys and the George Gibsons.
The Mpthercraft Home celebrated its
fourth birthday lately, and a big crowd
went to Newtown bearing gifts of a pound
weight or a pound sterling. The C.J.’s lady,
who is the president, roped in our former
Mayoress, Mrs. J. J. Wignall. to receive the
gifts. The orphaned Freeman triplets were
on view, and attracted much attention.
The Orchestral Society gave another of
its low-priced “pops” at the City Hall, and
the large building was crowded. Glanville
Bishop conducted his team of 55 with spirit,
and Myra Gillon and Thomas Goward sang
some old favorite ballads.
The arts and crafts exhibition in the
Town Hall was an interesting show. Presi-
dent Alan Walker in his opening speech men-
tioned that ours was the oldest society of its
kind in Australia. Exhibits of outstanding
merit were the Ratho pottery, three clock
cases of beautiful design and workmanship,
and some superfine lace and needlecraft.
Nora Perkins and her handloom drew an
interested crowd.
Death has claimed a well-known and very
popular woman, Mrs. Walter Taylor, who
for many years has been organising secre-
tary of the Nat. Federation and an energetic
office-bearer of a dozen other societies. Poli-
tics were her strong suit, and no one knows
how many budding Parliamentarians were
sponsored and coached by her.
The medical men who attended the Sydney
Congress have got back into harness with the
exception of Dr. E. A. Rogers, who, to
the regret of his many fiends and patients,
was laid low by a sharp attack of pneumonia
in Melbourne, and will not be able to take
up work again for a while.
Kind-hearted folk are bestirring themselves
to help the little motherless Freeman trip-
lets, who have been taken in by the Mother-
craft Home. Mrs. W. A. Brain, Mrs. C. N.
Atkins and the management of the Glide-
away Skating Rink ran a carnival with
gymkhana events, and added something to
the mites’ banking account.
The Cuff sisters, Nancy and Betty, covered
themselves with glory in the Northern
Women’s golf championship matches, Nancy
winning the championship and Betty the
Northern handicap. In spite of the almost
incessant rain of the week before, the going
was pretty good, and there was some ex-
cellent play.


m
3*GROSVENOR
ADELAIDES FINEST UNLICENSED HOTEL
The most attractively located hotel
in Adelaide. The new railway sta-
tion is at your door; every transit
facility-dose by. Fireproof, 300
rooms, 100 bathrooms, spacious
lounge, faultless service, yale
lock on every doer.
NORTH TERRACE.ADELAIDE.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. :
F. E, Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Ottice —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Gnlwuila Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
A Perfect gloss
FIRST
SOLD
A GLOSSY, healthy-
looking head of hair
can be yours—it’s _ no
secret; just comb a little
Rowland’s Macassar Oil
thoroughly into the hair
twice a day. It feeds your
hair and prevents weak-
ness and falling out.
Of all Chemists,
Stores and Hair-
dressers. Red for
dark hair; golden
for fair or grey
hair.
Roland’s
Macassar OH
the drums cutting in on her thoughts had
set her nerves twitching.
“Sinabada !”
She turned quickly. Her face went white
and she shrank back in sudden alarm. A
hideous apparition stood silently by her
side, a grim figure with a painted body
grotesquely streaked in lines of red and
black and white. Chaplets of gleaming white
teeth were strung about the head; half-
moon shells glistened on the chest, and the
face was a bedaubed mask of red ochre and
lamp black, out of which the beady, paint-
rimmed eyes peered monkey-like. A fan-
tastic head-dress of white cockatoo feathers
was secured to the hair; a nine-inch “nose-
jewel” was thrust through the pierced sep-
tum, and the ear lobes, hanging almost to
the shoulders, were lined with red shell-
money and tortoise-shell rings.
“Sinabada!” The thing was talking to
her. The voice came thickly, indistinctly
and she saw that the lips were encrusted
with blood-colored lime.
“Sinabada! I
go makem daniss
[dance]. You
t’ink I look pretty
good, hey?”
“Gadu weli!”
Lesley choked.
“Go away! You
look horrible—
horrible h or -
rible!”
A dreadful
grimace twisted
Gaduweli’s paint-
daubed features
and he moved
away, silent as a
shadow.
“Dum! Dum-
dum ! Dum !
Dum-dum! Dum!
Dum-dum !”
The drummers
were getting into
their stride. One
long note and
two short ones,
setting up subtle
vibrations that
throbbed through
the night. And
over all rose the
\ T oices of singers
crooning the pre-
liminary tuneless,
monotonous,
dirge-like chant.
Lesley had a
creepy feeling,
but she told her-
self that she was
not afraid.
Misty clouds
were blotting out
the stars. The
night grew
dark er. The
shadowy shrubs
stirred and the
black plumes of the drooping palm-
tops trembled. There was no sound
save the insect chorus, the notes of
the drums, one moment terribly loud, the
next almost inaudible, and the thumping of
her own heart.
Lesley told herself fiercely that she was
not afraid. There was nothing to fear,
nothing at all. She was as safe on this
lonely outpost, among these primitive
savages, as if she were in her own suburban
home. Safer! Much safer! But deep
dawn within her there was a lack of con-
viction. The thrill of adventure was
leaving her. Under its cloak of romantic
beauty New Guinea was suddenly terrify-
ingly evil!
“Dum! Dum-dum! Dum! Dum-dum!”
Lesley covered her eyes with her hands
and shivered. The drums rolled on steadily,
slowly, seeming now to gain volume with
every beat, pounding relentlessly their sul-
len message of hate and fear and menace.
Why had Hal left her? She was afraid
—terribly afraid. She prayed that he would
soon return.
Suddenly she sat bolt upright, her nerves
quivering. Something without substance,
light as thistledown, chill as the breath of
death had brushed against her face, and
there was a vague, muffled thrumming, a
sort of horrible undernote to the throbbing
of the drums in the compound. A moth, a
huge, grey hawk-moth as large as a small
bird, blurred, shapeless, was reeling along
the ceiling, its wings whirring eerily, its
thick body casting a monstrous shadow high
upon the walls.
It circled round her again. The breath
of its wings fanned her cheeks. Her heart
thumped, and seized with panic fear she
struck out at it wildly with her hands. She
felt the thud of its loathsome body upon
her face and fear gripped her—blind, un-
reasoning, sickening fear. Again and yet
again she felt the foul thing upon her face,
her hands, her neck, and her fear grew upon
her until she was on the edge of panic. The
thing lurched for the light. It circled once,
twice, then settled upon the lamp chimney.
Eor a second its wings drummed against
the hot glass. Then a tongue of flame shot
upwards, there was a nauseating odor and
the lamp went out.
Lesley screamed. Terror clutched at her
heart, and reason fled before her over-
mastering desire to escape. She rushed
blindly through the darkened bungalow
“She crouched against the wall shaken with sheer physical loathing. Her heart was
pounding to suffocation."
unt i 1 she was
brought up against
the garden fence.
Every breath she
drew was a gasp,
and little shivers
shot through her
body. The night
air played upon her
burning face, cool-
ing her, soothing
her taut nerves,
and tremblingly
she rested against
the fence. She
breathed deeply,
filling her lungs with the revivifying air, and
released from her fears her heart ceased its
panic thumping, her trembling limbs grew
still and the power of reasoning returned.
Why had Hal not returned? Why had
he left her at all? She wanted companion-
ship—human companionship. She would
venture a little way into the compound.
She would watch the natives. Anything was
preferable to facing again and alone the
terrors of that fear-haunted empty bungalow.
The drums had died down to a muffled
roll like the mutter of surf on a far-away
reef, but the voices of the singers were
rising in a wild chant of savage exultation.
Lesley moved forward fearfully.
Grim figures were swaying in a circle of
light cast by the fires. Men were there,
fantastically painted, fantastically masked,
twisting their gleaming naked bodies, danc-
ing a mad measure to the demon music
of the drums. Women were there, writhing
unashamed in the firelight. Sinuously they
circled round, shamelessly they gestured,
alternately repelling and inviting their
reeling partners.
Dominated by an overmastering impulse
Lesley crept a little nearer. Confused by
the ceaseless thumping of the drums,
deafened by the voices of the singers, the
music had conveyed nothing much to her.
Each moment, however, the tune became
clearer, more distinct, more easily identi-
fiable. Lesley recoiled, unutterably shocked.
She recognised in the vile cadence the
abominable motif of Moira Lorimer’s dance
of death and blood and hate and foul
desire. With no
thought but to re-
treat before the
frenzied savages ob-
served her, she
turned and stumbled,
sobbing, back to the
bungalow.
The place was in
darkness. She groped
her way to the
kitchen, and ran her
hands feverishly
along the shelves in
a search for matches.
Lighting a hurri-
cane-lantern, shaken
and weary, she re-
turned to her seat
on the verandah.
She wanted only
her husband now.
Her whole being was
crying out for him.
She wanted to feel his strong arms about her,
to hear his voice comforting her, soothing
her. All his faults forgotten, his failures
forgiven, she craved for him. He was her
defence, her shield against the things of
the outer darkness, the fears that encom-
passed her. Hal, the essential Hal, the
dream man who had
There was a tread on the back steps, and
the sound of a voice, harsh, commanding.
“Vaedacni! Hereva lasi!” [Finish! Be
silent!]
A delicious thrill ran through Lesley’s
veins. Hal had returned.
The drumming and the singing eased off,
then ceased altogether 1 . There came a
confused babble of sound from the com-
pound, a low mutter of voices.
Lesley rose with a sob of relief in her
throat. Her heart beat high as she heard
her husband’s footsteps approaching, pas-
sion, joy, and a great relief warming her
blood once more.
“Hal dear!” she cried. “How late you
are!”
She ran forward into his outstretched
arms; then started back violently, staring
at him in dumb amazement.
He was swaying on his feet, his face
was flushed, his eyes bloodshot and his shirt
was torn open at the neck. He was blink-
ing at her, stupidly, owlishly.
Lesley’s cheeks were ashen, her eyes
dilated. Her hand crept to her throat in
an effort to stifle the cry that rose to her
lips.
His arms fastened about her. His eyes,
hot, avid, devoured her terror-stricken face.
“Hal!” she gasped. “Let me go! Please
let me go!”
Her hands beat flutteringly against him,
but he held her as in a vyce.
Again and again she uttered the piteous
cry like a frightened child, then breathless,
gasping, she freed herself and darted away.
Merton swayed a moment, moved a step
forward, then fell headlong.
CHAPTER XVIII.
Disaster.
Lesley backed fearfully away, faltering
step by faltering step, away from the
drunken, leering Thing that was her hus-
hand, until the wall blocked further retreat.
She was white to the lips, her mind was
filled with horror and despair, in her heart
there was blank, hopeless misery, and her
eye 3 reflected a dreadful fear.
The room seemed to be swimming before
her in a mist, through which a pair of eyes
glared avidly, gloating eyes set in a dis-
torted face, devouring eyes focussed
unblinkingly upon her, following her
as the eyes of a snake follow a flut-
tering, frightened bird.
All her secret doubts, her hidden
agonies of dread
reeled through
her mind—jeer-
ing devils of
doub(t, now be-
co m e hideous
truths; gibber-
ing demons of
dread now gloat-
ingly triumphant.
She crouched
against the wall
shaken with sheer
physical loathing.
Her heart was
pounding to suf-
focation.
With a clumsy
movement, Mer-
ton thrust the
table aside. The
flickering lamp
canted, crashed to
the floor and the
room was plunged
in darkness.
Lesley’s scream
of fright and hor-
ror rang through
the bungalow. She
heard her hus-
band moving to-
wards her. She
felt his hands
clawing at her
body. The shak-
ing terror of the
moment seemed
to brace her into
panic courage.
She thrust out
her hands with a
sudden, fierce movement. She struck out
with her foot, blindly, desperately, and she
shuddered to his blasphemies as her shoe
met soft flesh.
And now Harry Merton was mad—mad
with hard liquor and baffled rage. There
was a flame before his eyes and his lips
sputtered vileness. His reason had fled, his
manhood had slipped away; all the in-
hibitions and traditions of his kind were
powerless to restrain him now. He was in
(Continued on next page.)


m
"I find Rexona Soap
invaluable for my skin
and hair.’'
EVE WILLIAMS.
Guard Skin Beauty!
A woman is most often judged by her complexion and
hair, and does that not generally create an impression of
her true personality ? If your skin or hair tells the story
of neglect or thoughtless habits, does it not give a bad
impression ? Care for yourself, and the world will care
for you —give your hair and complexion that attention
which is so invaluable to you.
Use Rexona Soap daily, and you will soon be astonished
with the improvement.
You will fully experience how soft and smooth the
skin becomes when you use this delightful Soap—how
clear the complexion, how soft, silky and lustrous the hair.
An economical dainty luxury —Rexona, the Aristocrat
of Soaps.
Price 1 /- per tablet.
Pumnsi
m
- oi -■
1
1
1
REXONA
SOAP
for Health and Beauty
RSIOR
#o*-
the Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania,
Is the only daily effectively covering the North
of Tasmania, where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
part of Tasmania that is prosperous and forging
ahead.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier 1 ’ and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable jrom:
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd., Mr. V. W. Margetts, Mr. W. G. Dougan,
73-75 Patterson Street, 122 Flinders Street, 726 Herald Building,
Launceston. Melbourne. 66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ONE FREEHOLD ACRE
Planted with 680 Pinus Insignia trees, estimated to produce in 10 years £250 for an outlay
of £3O (in easv instalments) —this alone should be sufficient inducement to puicnas
in DOMINION FORESTS’ ISSUE.
BUT
When a FREE LIFE ASSURANCE POLICY FOR £250 _ covering t a period of 10 years is
vvnen a musii jlujjj!. AnoeuaiioQ run r nP poi>(j vnu this
added, the investment is unique. A DOMINION FORESTS’ BOND OFFERS LOU IHib.
BE A BONDHOLDER. NO YEARLY PREMIUMS.
NO MEDICAL EXAMINATION.
Cover the Life Risk whilst the trees grow. 4
Write for Prospectus to PACIFIC UNDERWRITERS,
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Sale Brokers for DOMINION FORESTS, LTD. (an Australian Company Planting in N.Z.).
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
the grip of an overmastering desire to
conquer and to crush the woman who had
defied him. He wanted to hurt her, to
shock her.
He was on his knees, floundering help-
lessly in the darkness. He felt a gust of
wind upon his face; heard the sound of a
door hastily slammed, the jiggle of a bolt
being thrust home, and he swore horribly.
Lesley threw her weight against the bed-
room door, panting, choking, crying out like
a child in pain. The flimsy door strained
against the bolt, the hinges creaked and
the panels bulged under the thrust of
Merton’s shoulders.
He was chuckling now, softly, mirthlessly.
Lesley hung on to the door-knob in an
anguish of suspense. Exhausted in body,
distracted in mind, blanched with fear and
horror, she sought to reason with him. He
was deaf to her pleas, and the door bent
inwards as though it soon must burst.
Lesley edged her way to the open window,
her only thought to escape, to flee into the
open air. With a crash of splintering wood
the- bedroom door broke away from its
hinges.
Sick and trembling, she ran out into the
night and the darkness engulfed her.
Staggering, choking, she flung herself
through the garden. Once she thought she
heard pursuing footsteps; it was only the
muffled pounding of her heart.
She was stumbling over shingle. The
water-worn stones bruised her thinly-shod
feet. She was ankle-deep in fine, powdery
sandpit was filling her shoes, impeding her
progress.
There were lights along the beach,
friendly lights they seemed; beckoning
lights; lights that offered some measure of
security.
Slowly the power of conscious perception
returned to her, slowly her distraught mind
began to function. She emptied the sand
from her shoes, and, rising wearily, sought
for and found the narrow strip of hard
beach that lay above high-water mark.
They were nearer, perceptibly nearer,
those lights. Dimly, as through a fog,
she discerned the outlines of a building.
Everything seemed to be whirling about
her; the ground was rising and falling like
the decks of a ship at sea. She staggered
forward, then she felt her strength ebbing
away from her. With an immense effort
of her will she fought off the faintness that
was engulfing her, and stumbled on. A
luminous mist swam before her eyes, a
sea thundered in her ears and she was
falling—falling....
* * * *
“Wot’s that, Goada?” Sam Turver paused
in the act of kicking off his unlaced boots,
preparatory to turning in for the night.
“I no savee, Sam.” Goada was irritable.
“Maybe village dog walk-about night-time;
maybe pig. Which way I savee?”
She was sulkily removing from the
counter the remains of a supper party There
were empty bottles scattered about the
store, unwashed pannikins, enamel plates
and empty tins. The atmosphere was heavy
with the odor of stale liquor and clouded
with tobacco smoke. Turver, however, was
not drunk.
Again there came a sound from outdoors
—a moan; a deep sigh, rather, like that of
a child disturbed in its sleep.
Turver dragged himself to his feet and
lurched to the door. He threw it wide
open.
“Spare me days!” he exclaimed in a
shocked Amice, and there was alarm in his
eyes. “It’s—it’s ’Arry’s missus!”
They lifted Lesley’s inanimate form and
carried her indoors.
Turver was painfully sober now. He
cleared his throat nervously. “Wot’s up
with ’er, Goada?” he whispered. “She ain’t
—ain’t dead, is she?”
“Dead!” Goada’s voice was scornful. “She
no dead. Li’l’ bit tired, li’l’ bit fever, li’l’
bit fright too much, tha’s all. Head b’long
her go round. Savee?”
Turver scratched his scrubby chin. “No
good try in’ take ’er back ’ome? Eh, Goada?”
Goada shook her woolly head vigorously.
“That fashion no good, Sam,” she said.
She selected a bundle of moth-eaten but
clean blankets from Turver’s stock and
vanished into the rear portion of the build-
ing. Presently she returned and beckoned
silently. Turver stooped and lifted Lesley
in his arms. She was moaning a little
now, babbling a little; her face was flushed,
her skin was hot and parched. Turver
put her on the bed and retreated. Goada
loosened Lesley’s clothing, piled blankets
thickly upon her, and tucked the mosquito
curtain carefully round,her.
For hours sleep eluded Sam Turver, and
he lay tossing and turning. Suddenly he
sat up.
“Goada!” he called huskily. “Hey,
Goada! Wake up!”
“Wha’s matter, Sam?” she called. “Your
head he no good, hey?”
“Where the ’ell did Loana go to?” Sam
Turver’s voice was husky.
“She bin taken Hari ’long house b’long
him,” she told him crossly. “You go sleep.”
Turver pondered this. “She no come
back yet, Goada?” he asked hoarsely at
last.
“She no come back, Sam.”
“Hell!” he said softly to himself.
* * * *
The first faint streaks of dawn were filter-
ing into the Laubogi bungalow. Through
the open windows drifted the early-morning
sounds of a new day. But in the bedroom
—Lesley’s bedroom—there was silence.
Half-dressed, Merton lay on his bed, over
which the mosquito curtain had not been
drawn. The soft padding of bare feet
sounded on the split-palm floor. Gaduweli
stood looking at the shattered door, round-
eyed, wondering. He crept forward a pace
or two and stared into the room. Then,
open-mouthed, he moved stealthily away,
From the kitchen came a low mutter of
voices. Then other natives came to the
bedroom door, stared, gaped and fled, mak-
ing no sound.
Merton stirred. He opened his eyes, then
shut them, wincing, so heavy was his head.
An indefinite recollection pricked his con-
sciousness; his mind was vaguely troubled.
Something brushed softly against his cheek
An arm! A slim, cool, shapely arm. He
sighed in happy contentment. He had been
dreaming, that was all. He had come home
a little top heavy; he had drunk too much,
and he had eaten too much at Turver’s and
outraged Nature had afflicted him with a
most horrible nightmare,
He leaned back again on the pillow,
smiling happily. Lazily he opened his
eyes.
Instantly his body stiffened as if with
shock of paralysis. Then a sudden con-
vulsion shook him. Into his eyes came an
expression of stark horror,
Shuddering anew, he stood up, swaying,
He caU g b t a glimpse of his face in the
m jrror Q f the wardrobe, and involuntarily
he recoiled from the reflected horror that
was himself.
He bowed his head and hid his face in
his hands, shutting his eyes tightly. But
no screen i n g hands could blot out the
memor y G f Lesley’s terror-haunted face; he
could not ghut from h i s soul the sound of
her scream of horror.
<(TJ , , • , c r
Han! Why do you hide your face from
m f; .. , .
Be silent, woman! Mertons voice was
a croa k.
Loana looked at him in faint bewilder-
ment, but immediately her face cleared,
Soon shc , T, ollld entwme herself in Han’s
arms, and the memory of the white-faced
smabada would no longer mock him.
With a sudden movement, infinitely grace-
ful, she threw herself at his feet. Her
arms clasped his knees,
A spasm of pain contorted Merton’s
features.
“Go, Loana!” he croaked. “Leave me!”
Loana clung to his knees.
« when you nee ded me, I came, Hari,”
she w hispered confidently. “The sinabada
has fled. I, Loana, have come back. They
-do not savee, these sinabadas.”
“Go, Loana!”
“You are sick, my Hari. In your head
there is still wisiki that”——
He thrust her from him in sudden revolt,
“Go, woman!” he groaned. “Go, and leave
me w ’ t^l shame!
(To . he cont i nued next wecL )
Ringbarked.
The moon through the dead timber, gone
Ghost-like, has touched each wizen bough:
The very ground I’m treading on
Is eerie with her now.
As if the wonder of the light
Trembling upon a leafless limb
Showed some poor dryad in the night
There was no hope for him.
And haunted all the timber seems,
As if the roots in their decay
Were thirsting for the dried-up streams
Of yesterday.
And haunted is my heart that feels
The glamor of the greenery gone.
My heart that as Time in the wood
Is laboring on.
N.S.W.
R. CRAWFORD.
The Black Gown.
“Why go you clad in gown of rue,
Lady, lady?
In sooth it not becometh you,
Foolish lady!
“For I would see you dressed in silk
Soft as satin, white as milk;
And your dark hair, where red lights play,
Not braided in this nunnish way.
Your knight was in the jousts to-day
And well did he acquit himself
Who struck for honor, not for pelf.
Because such noble play has been
You should go radiant as a queen.”
“Saw ye the knight at joust to-day?
Saw ye no matron garbed full gay,
Who matched her gown with painted glows,
And red-heeled shoon and broidered hose,
Who cast to him a golden rose ?
Saw you his smile, so swift and sweet.
Across the flower that brushed his feet?
My gown is widow’s wear,” she said,
“For faiths betrayed and true-love dead!”
“But your knight brought the rose to you,
Lady, lady!
Like sun-splash on your gown of rue,
Foolish lady!”
“My knight is mine no more,” she said;
“The man I knew is lying dead;
Only his body bravely moves
To trysting with his fresher loves.
The rose he gave me nothing proves
There was a window wide last night
And walls are dark, but moons are white.
The world approves his high-held head—
I saw the skull, I know him dead.”
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


W hat ...
Ruined ?
And run
onlv
4000 miles l
This annoying and expensive ex-
perience could so easily have been
avoided. Here is a tyre in the prime
of life ruined for lack of a little at-
tention.
Improper inflation did it
It is now definitely known that
80% of all tyre failures are directly
traceable to improper inflation. Ac-
cording to qualified experts, prema-
ture tread wear . .■ . fabric ruptures
... rim cuts .; ; side-wall breaks .. .
all may be traced to this one cause.
Thus, simply through failure to keep
tyres at correct pressures, motorists
are actually throwing away millions
of miles of service every year.
How to prolong Tyre life
Have your car or tyre dealer tell
you the correct pressure for your
tyres. Then buy a Schrader Tyre
Gauge, for balloon or high pressure
tyres, as you require. The Schrader
Gauge is sturdy, dependable, easy to
use, easy to read. Use it frequently,
once a week at least and before long
trips, to check the actual pressure.
Always keep your Schrader Gauge
in your motor car.
Long life to your Tyres l
Now you can join the thousands
of experienced motorists who keep
their tyres correctly inflated, and get
every last mile of service from them.
&
Sold by
Accessory Dealers
everywhere
Schrader
Makers of Pneumatic Valves Since 1844
Tyre Valves:: Tyre Gauges
A. SCHRADER’S SON, Inc.
Proprietary Limited
422 Little Collins St.
Melbourne, Australia
BIRKMYRE’S CLOTH
(Regd. Trade Mark.)
In addition to “ BIRKMYRE’S CLOTH *' be-
ing our Registered Trade Mark the follow-
ing are also our Registered Trade Marks,
each complete in itself.
“L” "OM” “N”
“BX” “H’ -K” and “S’
Any one of these marks will protect our
mutual interests.
'"GOO ROCK .“LTD,
379 Kent-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Charlotte-street, Brisbane, Q.
480 Flinders-street, Melbourne, Vic.
For Sale.
2000 BOOKS £25 to 6d. EACH
M ANY old and rare editions interestingly
catalogued in List 15, post free from the
SIGN OF THE HUNTSMAN,
Southborough, Nr. Tunbridge Wells,
Kent, England.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
An Ideal Winter Home —The Jdost Sheltered Spot on the Harbor, with Private Beach and
Amphitheatre Baths, Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service. Spacious Grounds
and Garage Accommodation.
Winter Tariff from 4 \ guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines).
THE DAILY MAIL
BRISBANE
Is logically the first big daily to select in Queensland for any advertising
campaign. It gets results!
It is always bright and is progressive to a degree.
And its net circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to
be greater than that of any other daily in Queensland. Its companion
journal is
THE SUNDAY MAIL
Queensland’s big weekly newspaper and magazine. These two journals
give a “cover” in Queensland that is second to none. For rates and
other particulars, please apply to
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-294 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE,
Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
uhe hand that holds
the" VENUS"
plans the World
/>
>vied with
Rheumatism
xr.
&
&
<U
<&
The first rough suggestion—the skilful
and accurate working out, the sharp
detailed drawings, all the preliminary
planning necessary to the carrying out of
constructive effort, call for the use of VENUS
PENCILS. Whether it be for the building of a
battle-ship or the design of a simple household
article, the pencil is the first requirement: the
VENUS the first pencil.
17Blacklead Degrees 68-9 H sd. each -4/9 per dozen, Super Copying (Medium & Hard) 6d.
each - 5/y per dozen. Venus Copying (Medium & Hard) 4d. each - 3/9 per dozen.
Pains vanish after Two
Bottles of OXYVITA
RACKED with rheumatism for years hope of relief
fading faced with excruciating pains for rest of
his life then someone suggested OXYVITA—the
new oxygen treatment. The result was astounding. Two
bottles —three weeks’ treatment —removed all pains.
This concentration of oxygen in tablet form the latest
triumph of medical science is daily giving undreamed-of
relief to thousands suffering from Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Neuritis, Gout and similar ailments.
Every time you flex a muscle, move your hand, raise your
arm, take a step, or exert any muscular energy at all, you
create what is medically known as animal heat—a slow
combustion produced in all parts of your system by oxy-
gen. When ypur body is unable to absorb sufficient oxygen
to perform these unconscious actions perfectly, you develop
rheumatism, sciatica, neuritis, lumbago, or some kindred
complaint. Correct this fault and your pains will vanish
for ever. OXYVITA oxygen in an easily assimilated tablet
form—keeps at a healthy level the oxygen supply necessary
in the wear and tear of modern life.
Fill in this coupon and despatch together with postal-notes
or stamps to the value of 4/6. It will bring you 50 pain-
saving Oxyvita tablets.
Two Bottles Relieved Acute Rheumatism.
Dear Sirs, —For many years I have suffered periodic attacks
of acute rheumatism. Some ten months ago I was pros-
trated as tire result of a prolonged and very severe
attack. I was persuaded to try “Oxyvita” Tablets.
After taking two bottles I was free from pain
and have remained so. I intend to continue
taking “Oxyvita” as a preventive.
Yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) J.B.
~V ~«f <V
*?&*&*"
O’
v c°; &
O aC .-••
u A > c,6
«“< y v ■>?*..
(ISA*
The GCTJAPD
LINCo/BCALTr
A satin brocade step-in is shown above.
The sides are of hand-loomed elastic, the
front and back lined with lightly boned sateen.
NCTA DIET BUT
A GC/JACD
TDK TDCXE
EXTRA
PDDNDT
So quickly smoothed —curves
that are slightly bulging
when you wear Gossard
foundations. Your favoured
dresses have their same smart
lines, your figure and posture
that feeling of slim grace that
must not be lost if you are to
be fashionable .....
The leading stores will show
you all various types of Gossard
foundationwear hook-
arounds, step'ins, solitaires,
combinations, front'lacing cor-
sets and brassieres.
Double net forms this new Cunningform bras *
siere, which gives uplift lines by means of center
front drawstrings.
ALL IN CNE!
Simplicity and grace in dress is
expressed in figure garments by
Gossard new designs. A com-
plete under costume is shown
here, Gossard Solitaire. Elastic
panels hold the low-
er section, made of
brocade, snugly to
the figure. The top is
of soft satin tricot.
Its perfect fitting
qualities permit this
garment to respond
with every
body move-
ment.
Ask to see the
new models in
Gossard hook-
arounds, com-
binations, gar-
ter belts, clasp-
arounds and
brassieres.
wS
The
Canadian H. W. Gossard
Co., Ltd.
114-120 Castlereagh Street
SYDNEY, N. S. W.
GOSSARDS ARE MADE WITHIN
THE EMPIRE


For the Millions
NOT THE MILLIONAIRES
“ ‘Nationalism’ has become as objectionable
to thousands of good Australians as ‘Liberal-
ism’ was when it meant anti-Defence.”
—“THE BULLETIN.”
“Federal ‘Nationalism’.... Far from econo-
mising effectively.... has piled up an
accumulated deficit of close on £5,000,000.”
—“THE BULLETIN.”
\
*
I
The Safeguard.
Labor favors the round-table confer-
ence, but it believes that there must be
in the background a Federal Tribunal
to act when conciliation fails.
What Bruce Has Done
The Bruce-Page Government, without a mandate
of any kind, tried to abolish in one fell swoop the
Federal Arbitration system, a system which grew
out of the oppression of the workers and which has
been evolved gradually over a period of 25 years.
Some of the Government’s own supporters stopped
them. Such an action would have cast hundreds of
thousands of workers into the “open economic ring.’’
Laws for the
Rich and
Laws for the
Poor .
The prosecution against John Brown, the coal
“baron,” who with his colleagues locked out
12,000 miners in a day, was withdrawn by
Mr. Bruce. The Timber Workers’ Union
and Mr. E. J. Holloway, a well-known. Labor
official, were prosecuted vigorously and fined.
“The law,” it was said, “must take its
course.” ,
Attack on the
Basic Wage.
The scrapping of Federal Arbitration was
proposed at the behest of big employing
interests, who wanted to force a reduction
of the basic wage and a lengthening of hours.
More Taxes
for the
Workers.
Taxation on the incomes of the wealthy has
been remitted. At the same time further
imposts have been placed on the workers by
means of indirect taxation through the Cus-
toms Tariff and the Amusement Tax.
What Labor Would Do
A Labor Government would maintain fair wages
and reasonable hours, and bring in a scheme of
National Insurance against accident, sickness and
unemployment. It would provide useful works of
development, and through better conditions would
increase the prosperity of industry and agriculture.
It would take further measures to protect and save
the infants.
Welfare of
the Workers .
Maintenance of Federal principle in Arbitra-
tion as a safeguard against threats on the
basic wage and standard hours. But a more
business-like system of arbitration, freed from
entangling legalisms, handled by men of
industrial experience. Measures to reduce
unemployment.
Help for the
Farmers.
Producers will be invited to a conference for
the establishment of pools and an Australian-
wide system of organised marketing.
Return to
Sane Finance.
Thorough review of financial position created
by Bruce-Page Government’s deficit of nearly
£5,000,000, after having inherited a surplus
of £7,000,000. Taxation on those best able
to bear it.
SAVE ARBITRATION
The BulwarK of the Basic Wage
NOW IS YOUR ONLY CHANCE
VOTE LABOR THIS TIME
(E. G. Theodore, Campaign Director A.L.P., Sydney, N.


0
m
Gfy
Black
For a husky voice.
Delightfully soothing
and refreshing. The
flavour is delicious.
Your Chemist stocks
them —1 /- and 1/9
per box .
fAllenbunys
Currant PASTILLES.
2EH
HOW A SHILLING GROWS
One shilling per week deposited regularly in the Common-
wealth Savings Bank will, in 2'3£ years, reach a total of £lOO
—provided that the deposits are regular and the interest is
allowed to. remain in the Savings Account.
Here, however, is the' real point. Of the £ 100 mentioned in
this example, you deposit only a little over £6l. The Common-
wealth Savings. Bank provides the balance in compounded
interest—over one-tfiirjd of the total.
Idle mone£ earns no .profit. Set your shillings to earning as
well as accumulating.
€bmmonwealtb 6avmas JBank of Hustralia
(Guaranteed bv the Commonwealth Government).
Clothes for Men
and Their Sons
X
K
The “S ANTWILL”
Worn by men in all corners of the Common- i
wealth. Sand coloured l'wil! Shirting,
guaranteed fast colour. It revels in the
wash tub and laughs at hard work, r? / Q
All sizes. Three foe 22/ 6. Eacf> (Izs
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street. Brisbane
A G»od j
Work Shire
Two Lives.
WHERLIN MARGARET FANE AND HILARY LOFTING
TELL ANOTHER
TALE OF THE ’LOO.
Danny aiottraai shuffled out of
Marty’s little shop in the ’Loo—shuf-
fled in his diffident, half-anxious way,
and Marty watched him crossing the road.
Mary, coming down the two steps from the
back room into the shop, saw that Marty’s
one hand was idle on the counter and his
eyes puzzled and unhappy. She chuckled
comfortably at him.
■ “Ye’d never be a success as a thief or an
actor, Marty, 5 she told him. "Your old
face and give you away before you opened your
mouth. Whose business have you got on
your conscience now?”
It s old Danny Mottram, Alary my dear.
I thought I'd done a good job there. But
I m not so sure of it now."
"What’s wrong with old Danny? He’s
home again with his family, and safe and
comfortable, isn’t he?”
"Yes." Alarty looked away from her and
through the doorway again to where old
Danny had been. "Yes,” he repeated sigh-
-1 Hut I dunno. You do your best, and
think you've done something, but in the
end”
Alary chuckled again, not waiting for him
to finish the sentence. ‘‘And worn you riot
warned time and again?” she asked. "You're
a meddler, Alarty, and sometimes (Jod gives
you what every meddler is asking for. But
whats wrong with Danny?"
1 dunno. Sometimes I think there’s no-
thing right with him.”
"He's quiet and comfortable, isn’t he, with
a line grown-up family to look after him and
.nothing to worry about?”
Yes. Alarty Hooked feebly and abstract-
ed l.\ at her. "Yes,’ he said for the fourth
tune.
And that s another thing that happens
to the meddlers, Alary told him
"What is?”
„ “7 lley lo . se the 11SC of their minds in time.
J’e mind the shop on your own for a
bit: She'laughed at him. “It’s a lmt I’ll
buy m Pitt-streot meself and a couple of
small things.”
J hat wag well enough, and Mar.v didn’t
mean the half of it, lie knew. But there was
old Danny shuffling half-alive round the ’Loo
when he and been brought back from God knows
what to the comfort of his home. And by
the skin of his teeth, as you might sav.
' I L a h was he, Alarty, who’d done it.
Llie memory of the ’Loo is mercifully not
long; but in the case of Danny Mottram and
tlm big 1910 railway smash Airs. Aiottram
had done her best to make it everlasting,
r u not avowed it to forget for a day
that that tragic event had swept her main-
stay, her husband, out of existence. No-
thing oi him had ever been found; in the
charred debris of the fire that had followed the
collision anything might rest in eternal obli-
vT Daniol Mottram having vanished,
it had been assumed after a decent interval
r u thf> things there was his remains.
f: Mottram accepted this visitation with
a fortitude which, in the eyes of the ’Loo,
J Tas admirable. It had been the local cus-
tom to regard the late Danny Aiottram as
aot much of a success so far as Mrs. Alot-
fiam and the three little girls were eon-
cerned. Indeed, at the time of his tragic
exit he had been trying to pick up a job
up country and had been within a few miles
Dunno when Death had so sharply inter-
vened. But overnight, as it were, 'he had
blossomed as the rose; he had become the
pattern of prosperity, foresight in finance
and generosity; bis death was as keen a loss
to the community as to his mourning widow
2nd family. And of this the ? Loo was com-
prehensively and persistently informed, until
it seemed that nothing had happened to the
Loo of late years of anything like the im-
portance of Danny Afottram’s death.
Hence, .when Mrs. Aiottram wanted the
small capital to open a residential in I'almcr-
street, the ’Loo felt that it was up to the
community to see that she got it. Hence,
too. when the residential was opened the
entire Loo was an unpaid agent and expo-
nent of its comfort and charms, so that soon
no room was ever vacant beneath its roof.
In the ceaseless din of Danny’s praise it was
felt that this was the least the 'Loo could
do for his memory.
An unexpected vigor in the personality of
Airs. Aiottram r-ose to receive and grasp this
opportunity. Instead of leaning back in
the comfort of this temporary popularity, she
devoted herself to the job of the residential
until the popularity was earned and perma-
nent. In time the house next door was ad wd
to the original venture, and in further time
the house on the other side also. Not often
now did she need to enlarge and dramatise
the character of the late Danny, who in
death was so much more than he could ever
have been in life. The conduct of a success-
ful, or even a solvent, residential in the ’Loo
being a persistently hardening process, not
often now did she ever think of him. It
is possible that in the memories of the little
girls a -shadowy, gentle man lingered wist-
fully for a year or two ; but the little girls
grew up in the influence of the hardening
process and became vigorous, unapproach-
able young women who had no use for any
shadows, however gentle.
Nearly 20 years of this had gone by, Marty
remembered, when he had come into it. From
the twilit shop he stared thoughtfully at the
lazy sunlit ’Loo beyond the doorway. You
couldn't tell; he had thought he wms doing
a big thing for everybody, but you couldn’t
tell. He had seen a man on the kerb in
Crown-street waiting for a tram and look-
ing vaguely at the Moreton Bay tigs in the
Domain. He had thought he knew the man
—he bad a good memory for faces—but it
wasn't until the man had caught his tram
and vanished that lie remembered. He wasn’t
sure then of course. Danny Mottram had
been dead and gone this 20 years; but Marty
had hung about the tram-stop oil' and on for
a couple of days in the faint hope that he
would see the man again.
And he did. And the man was Danny
Mottram !
“You see, Mister’’ (it was weeks before
he could call him “Marty"). “I didn’t know
anything. 1 didn't know anything."
Danny's face was brown and his eyes clear.
He looked all right; better than he'd often
looked in the ’Loo 20 years ago. Every
now and again he'd go bewildered : but you
eouldn't expect anything e-lse after what
Marty was telling him. He was 20 years
older, top: but he didn't look it. Not then ;
later he did.
“I stpod there looking at the smoke and
the smash-up. I'd been at work all night
with the others fighting the fire and getting
out the dead and the injured, and I hadn't
had time to try to get me bearings. But
towards daybreak we knew we'd done all
we could. The injured had all been got off
to Dubbo in a raft of cars, and all the dead
we could get out when the fire would let us
were laid out waiting to be taken away.”
Danny paused and looked at Alarty. a faint
smile touching his lips, but not his grave,
still eyes. “It’s a thing you don’t forget,
Mister, that sort of a game, with women
screaming and men blubbing with nerves,
and the heat of the fire you’ve get to work
: n, and the shocks you get yourself every
iiinute. But there was a iot I’d forgot” -
He was silent so long that Marty prompted
aim with a diffident “Yes?”
Danny roused himself. “All, we could do
was done. There was the breakdown gang at
work hell for leather, and the smashed up
-arriages piled on top of each other, and the
moke. I looked at. the axe in my hand, and
/membered grabbing it from a lady who
could hardly lift it. I felt meself all over —
bit of a scratch and a burn here and there,
but that was ail. / was all right. But how
I’d got there 1 didn’t know. 1 didn't know
whether I'd been in one of the trains, or
whether I'd come over from the township
to help. L went through me pockets, and
there was nothing but me pipe and tobacco,
a couple of handkerchiefs, and me penknife.
Eighte'en-and-tc-npence I had. And I didn't
know my name, who I was, where I'd come
from, or where I was going to. I didn’t know
anything.”
Danny’s low, soft voice ceased. It was like
the gentle, half-furtive voice of a deaf man,
Marty thought, hardly troubling the silence
in the shop.
“What did you do, Danny?” he asked,
his own voice quiet and half-whispering.
"I went away into the bush and sat under
a tree to think it out. in the end I could
see there was only one thing to and went
on into the bit of a township to look for a
job. Smith, I said me name was —Sam Smith.
I’d been on the road looking for work, seen
the railway smash-up, and lost me bluey
while I was giving ’em a hand.” He looked
up at Marty; his face lost and bewildered.
“It might have been true, Mister, for ail 1
knew,” he added wearily.
Marty sighed. He’d never forget that
hour in the shop with old Danny—old
Danny striving gradually back to being him-
self again, after 20 years of being Sam
Smith doing jobs on Dubbo farms. He was
all right now Marty’s memory insisted on
that —and taking all the news about the
Mottram residential quietly.
All the same Marty realised that a
recovery from loss of memory involving
the Mrs. Mottram of to-day wanted some
tackling. To say nothing of those three
young women instead of three little solemn-
eyed girls.
The excitement had died down in time,
and Danny had taken his job of all-round
handy man at the residential. He came into
the shop a good bit for things for the house,
but it was some while before Matty saw any
change in him. You couldn’t consider him
an ordinary man and you knew that things
couldn’t always be too pleasant for him at
home —a lot. of the dreary look in his eyes
might have been put there by Mrs. Mottram
or one of the girls.
But he shuffled now. and his eyes were
dead. He looked like a slow shadow struggl-
ing without any meaning round the 'Loo.
He looked old and beaten, scared and hope-
less. And lie wasn't old—Marty could give
him ten years and more. But something
had withered him —something more than a
couple of hardfaced women, rousing on him
now and again.
Marty sighed once more and shook his
head sharply, as if he were trying to shake
away the thought that he was responsible
for this. But that wasn't any good—he was
responsible, and you. couldn't get away from
it. Mary was right: he was a meddler, and
Hod was bound some time to give him
what all meddlers were asking for. But who
could see the mourned and praised Danny
Mottram. twenty years dead, waiting for a
tram in Crown-street and keep his" mouth
shut?
Not much more of the spring had passed
when Mary came down the two shallow
steps into the shop again with the 'void chat
Danny Mottram was down with influenza.
“Is he bad with it. Mary my dear?” Marty
asked.
“Bad enough, his daughter Julia seems
to think. Maybe he was sickening for ir
that time you were worrying.yourself about
him not long since. That might have been
the trouble.”
“It might,” Marty agreed. Of course, it
rn iglit. You couldn't tell.
Young Doris Mottram answered his in-
quiry later with the information that her
father was pretty had and needed a good
deaj of attention, which the house found ll
difficult to give him, Marty was sorry to
hear that Danny was pretty had. Aiid if
Danny had been sickening for it. that ex-
plained everything, as Mary had said. Mary
was generally right.
But Mrs. Mottram came heavily into the
shop on the Thursday evening and swept all
that nonsense away. Her powerful face
was'full of partially suppressed indignation.
Without greeting she eaine to the point.
"You and me have been friends a good
few years now, Marty, but I’ve got a word
or two I want to say to you.”
Marty made a mental reservation as to the
word "friends," but smiled tentatively at
her.
“You know that precious husband of mine
that you brought back from the grave, ;is the
sayin’ is?”
"Yes. I hope he isn’t worse, Mrs. Mot-
tram.”
“Worse!” The word was scorn itself
echoing round the shop. “No. He's better,
after turning the house upside down and
running me and the girls off our feet." She
looked incisively into Marty’s face, “Unless
you mean worse in his morals, - ’ she sug-
gested.
“No. I didn’t mean that,” Marty told her
curtly. “What’s this word or two you've
got for me, Mrs. Mottram?”
She continued to watch his face with
hard, suspicious eyes. “Who are ‘Janet’-and
‘Ella’ and ‘Maud’?” she demanded. “And
who's ‘the Missus’?”
“I'm sure I don’t know. You seem tc
know their names—who arc they?” Marty
asked. He was losing his temper. The
woman seemed to think lie was some sort
of a crook, with her boring eyes staring
at him.
Apparently satisfied that lie wasn’t a
crook she took the boring quality out of. her
eyes leaving only the heavy indignation.
“I'll tell you who they are, Marty.” she
promised him. “They’re me precious hus-
band's other family out in the Backblocks.
where lie’s been kickin' about, these twenty
years!”
Marty stared at her.
“He was off' his head for a bit one night,
when the fever was bad on him. And he
was raving and calling out to this Ella
and Maud and Janet, his voice all soft and
foolish.” Her eyes snapped, “And to this
missus he’s picked up out there,” she added
viciously.
Marty could only stare at her.
"Oh, real loving he was." she went on
bitterly, “croonin’ over them, with his lawful
wedded wife and two daughters born in wed-
lock in the room! Kate was out, or I’d
have had her there too, to hear her father
moanin' and bletherin’ to these other girls
of his —her father that we opened our hearts
to and took in and gave him the best of
everything.” She paused, eyeing Marty
sombrely. “I thought p'r’aps you knew
about this other family ; but 1 can see yon
didn't. lie’s fooled the lot of us. Loss
of memory!” Her voice was sharp with
contempt.
Presently a menacing smile touched her
lips and she turned away from the silent
dumbfounded Marty. At the door she looked
back. “You started it, Marty,” she said
softly, “so 1 thought I’d let. you know what
you’d done.”
Marty moved a tin of raspberry-jam a
quarter of an inch out of its place and
pushed it carefully back into its place. Poor
old Danny! So that was the way of it! No
wonder he was shuffling half-alive about the
'Loo. with that weight on his mind. \ Two
lives to carry about in his conscience! And
what was happening to the other life now?
Mary was right-—oh, Mary was right. Poor
old Danny!
The shop was nearly dark when at last
he roused himself and switched on the light.
Danny Mottram got better and- was up
and about again. Marty saw him, shuffling
past the shop every morning, hut didn’t
ilare to go out and ask him how he was. The
lost, bewildered look was stronger on him
at first, Marty thought, but it seemed to
settle down to normal after a couple of
weeks. From this Marty judged that Mrs.
Mottram was keeping her m'outh shut .and
hiding her time. Perhaps she thought that
holding Danny in this life and away from
thq oStfior was punishment enough. And
.majrbe she was .right in that Marty admitted
sadly, rememberinir the residential and -the
three young women. And Mrs. Mottram.
(Continued on page 57.)
The Lure.
Though from the world'ft drab round
it seems
Romance has taken.icing.
The lure of gold still calls our blood
To far adventuring.
From trodden ways and sordid paths
It summons us away;
'Twas so when Solomon was king.
And so it \s to-day.
To dare the wilds of Heathenesse
It spurred, in bygone years.
Gay cavaliers and courtiers fine
And swarthy bueegneers.
/Is night and day, through unknown
regions.
They journeyej on and on,
Before them always, golden-toiccrcd,
Bright Eldorado shone.
Because of it they girl their loins
And quitted comfort's lap:
An ocean and a continent
Jt put upon the map.
■Gap galleons it sent abroad
To venture o'er the seas.
And filled the ports of ancient Bpain
With laden argosies.
'Twas it that stirred the soul of Brahe
And set his blood aglow;
'l iras it that fired his bearded crew
And sent them Westward-ho!
Where'er it called feet followed it
By plain and marsh and ‘steep;
The blue Pacific, calm and broad,
11 u'ohc from ancient sleep.
Through summer's heat it urged them
on.
It urged through winter's snows;
Because of it in regions lone
White-tented cities rose.
High roads it built through desert-
icastes,
Wide ways through mire and mud:
Race-arteries it fired anew
With red refreshing blood.
Stilt, still it cails its followers,
Still, still it draws them on ;
For Eldorado shines to day
.is ages since it shone.
N.S.W.
KODERIC QUINN


Hanking, Public Companies, etc.
Bank of New Zealand, j
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. . • £629,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 703,125
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 985,000
£2,235,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,485,000
Aiso 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should road the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia Mouse, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where,*he.v can see the home
papers, meet their friends use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency. Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z
N.Z
N.Z.
N Z. RACING CONFKKKNCK
NZ trotting conference
hunts association
GUN Cl. ÜBS ASSOCIATION
COURSIN G ASSOCIATION.
NORTH ISLAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAL ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNEL, CLUB
N.Z. GOLF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. FOLO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
COMMUNITY OF
ZEALAND.
SPORTING
NEW
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. B«x 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Of (0 out of U>* WoHd'* Le®din*
Advert «tr/- A*3Bcle».
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PRICE . . M.-
Contains 'everything a woman needs to ten am.
w HAIR.
here's
iimjj -
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go, The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican \\alriut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or "storekeeper for —
StPOJLvriS CMEXICAN)
Walnut Stain
''REMOVES THE GREY
Sole Australian A a rats:
JITTER DIN k SAINSBURY, ETD.
Bonrl Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally. posled
direct U/6), 6A.' beiny postage.
(p
Shipping, eu:.
s
•JsJiWW
#
m
mZ
V
SiWirn
er
Wait.
i
NOW you may see Hawaii
and shoot the breakers
in the , matchless surf of
Waikiki Beach. And indeed
no more desirable holiday can
be planned than a Union
Company Excursion Tour to
Hawaii that lovely island lost in the South Seas, lazy and laughing in
sunshine. Canadian-Australian Liners, now commencing summer excursion
runs, will carry you with comfort and enjoyment through calm seas, opening
the fascinating book of travel at New Zealand, Fiji and Honolulu. Plan
to sail on one of the following dates:
November 14 December 12 January 9 February 6
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne, C l.
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINE
Excursions to Hawaii
BDRNS-PHILP TOURS
JAVA
(The Land of Eternal Sumrpsr).
OLD BUDDHISTIC AND HINDUISTIC TEMPLES —NATIVE BAZAARS.
EXCELLENT 810 GAME SHOOTING. BEAUTIFUL TROPICAL SCENERY}
EXTENSIVE TEA GARDENS. , INTERESTING PEOPLE.
Regular monthly sailings by the favorite vessels
“MARELLA” (7500 tons) and “MALABAR” (5000 tons).
Pacific Island Excursions
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Lord
Howe Island, Norfolk Island and New Hebrides .
TRIPS OF FROM TWO TO FIVE WEEKS' DURATION.
Make your selection now and Booh .Early.
Apply to
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne,' §- Brisbane, Adelaide.
PS
-f
«®S»
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1811
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund. ,
Reserve Liability
42S►
£7,500,000
5,900,600
7,500,000
£20.900,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30. 1958, £88,985.585.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
554 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, /New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances inade to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1831,
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP.- - - - - - - - £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND - - - 4,200,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL - - - 4,739,012 10 0
£13,678,025 0 0
• • . , . Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH -COHEN ( Chairman ) ; .
Hon JAMES ASHTON. M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND; Major-General
the Hon JAMES WILLIAM MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW, .V.D., M.L.C.;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRY HURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birchin Lane.* Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
... . _the world.
*ll Classes of General Banking-and Exchange Business Transacted. .
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS. —Inspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—Every Saturday evening; passengei,
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
SS WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening
nasseiig»rs due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Set*
BRISBANE.
FARES.— .
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single,
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return,
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single,
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single,
£4
£7/u/-
£3/15/
£3/8/-
NQRTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers* Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU. CHARMS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents; Burns, Philp & Co.. Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Huddart ParkerL
Magnifloem
Fast Passengei
Steaimlii|ii
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
' STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART P AR K ER LI MITSJ
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
Just a trip-or
a hdtofrv holiday
.e*
&
{P<-
\^ e
L^ 0
lO*
r#<'°
•eV-
-1
eV)
,tvv
<w c
s?
ICV-
Vt*
0^ &
\tf- e
*>e?
s&
S.O*
■o^
1
es'
w
vW^
\V C
\tv
,vVi
A<x’
»*
\\£ a
d e
s*
A \^
A\<tf 4 ,,»vc0
V s A C^
. fcCfC* **<*%«*
f-. _A\»° _,a®^
c
1# &***
CANADIAN PACIFIC
TRAINS STEAMERS HOTELS
The Worlds Greatest Travel System
Tf any illustration in The Ritt.t.etin
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
THE PATRIOT
DIRECT MEDIUM™ WOMEN.
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. 0. HINCHCLIFFE,
o HTTNTER STREET.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
%
f
Register
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 3U
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auchtois
COUNSEL!-, BOOTH & HUNWICK.
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust,).
Tlll „ shows further substantial
The notable success of Australian Journals
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald’ Office
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
limited,
ADELAIDE.


Sunbeam
sdfsd
Every Sunbeam car is individually produced. In addition
to rigid tests at every stage of production, each car is
subjected to the most searching road tests. The supremacy
of the Sunbeam name must be maintained—that is the
spirit and policy which permeates the production of
Sunbeam cars.
For the Australian market all Sunbeam cars have a standard
track, a ground clearance of 9in. at the lowest ppint,
special springing for comfort over all roads, and a specially
large radiator and fan to ensure adequate cooling under
all conditions.
Complete catalogue will be sent on application to any
of our authorised dealers or to the Company s address
below: • ...
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.
Export Dept.: 12 Princess Street, Hanover Square, London,
W. I, England.
Cables: “SUBEAMOCO,” London.
Head Office and Works: Wolverhampton, England.
AUTHORISED DEALERS:
SYDNEY.
William, Hill & Cameron, Ltd.,
91-97 Flinders Street.
PERTH:
Arthur Bales, Ltd.,
367-371 Murray Street,
VICTORIA:
The All British Motor Co. (Pty.)
Ltd.,
104-106 Russell Street.
ADELAIDE:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Way mouth Street.
THE delicate charm of Eng=
lish Crystal made the art of
the old Stuart craftsmen tradi -
tionaL To=day descendants
of those men produce for you
glass which generations to
come will venerate as the
work of old masters. The
registered name Stuart is
stamped on every piece as a
proof ol genuineness.
m*
English EfancEmade Crystal
Obtainable wherever beautiful glass
fill a n c
IL< S /m lt%* ol
o^jdjlca3our t
At all good hotels
and tobacconists
Special box: prices on request
Wholesale Distributors
CRAIG & AIT KEN
654 GEORGE STREET SVONEV
8
Morning after morning he went by, looking
at the streets as if he and never seen_ them
before in his life and was terrified ot them
now that he did see them. Marty s meddling
heart prompted him to go out of the shop
and take his arm and tell him it was all
right. Tell him that everyone had his
bundle to carry, and that there was always
someone who understood and could see the
rights of it with a friendly eye. But Marty
was afraid. He'd meddled enough, he told
himself savagely.
But one morning it was too much. Mary
was in the shop, unpacking pickles and
sauces, and Marty slipped off his apron.
"Back in a minute or two, Mary my dear,”
he said, not looking at her, and hurried out
after Danny.
Danny was farther ahead than he'd
thought. Marty followed him down Brazier-
street, across into Crown-street and over
the road into the Domain. When lie reached
him he was sitting on a bench staring help-
lessly at a vast Moreton Bay fig-tree.
“Hullo, Danny*” he said, sitting beside
him.
Danny’s vague eyes flickered away from
the tree, and glanced at Marty. “Hullo,
Marty,” his dim voice said, his gaze return-
ing 'to the tree.
For a moment Marty sat in thought. It
wasn’t a thing you could bog into with a
rush. But now Danny was speaking.
“You know, I don’t care for these big-
dark trees,” he murmured. “There’s nothing
fifipndly or—well, or gentle about them.”
Marty looked at him. “You like trees,
Danny?” he said feebly.
“Like ’em? Yes. I like trees.” He
paused deep in thought. "Like ’em!” he
muttered again, and was silent again.
Marty said nothing.
"You don't know what trees can be Marty,
until”....
“Until what?”
“I never told you nor anyone else, Marty,
but when I was Sam Smith up country I
wasn’t in a job all the time. I’d had a bit
of a place of me own for the last eight
years. Five acres I got cheap; I put up
a one-room shack and lean-to” -He broke
off and turned to face Marty, his eyes for
the moment _ not lost nor bewildered.
“I made it,” he said. “I didn’t know
who I was, or who or what I’d been. I’d
got nothing behind me. I started scratch.
And I learnt how to do it, and did it.”
Marty waited in silence. Poor old Danny !
“Part of the land was good enough, and
I got enough out of it to keep me. And it
was mine—something I’d done. Gut of
nothing.”
His voice softened, became gentle and
dim again. “I laid to be alone. I didn’t
know anything about ineself, and I couldn’t
drag others into that sort of a game. But
I got it down in time, with the trees helping
me. There was three white gums—slender,
beautiful trees leaning into the wind —
always fresh and happy in the morn
ings”
The longing in Danny's murmuring voice
seemed to be bringing him to life again.
“I gave ’em names—Ella was one, and
there was Janet and Maud. And there was
a big liearty-looking turpentine—that was
the Missus.”
Very still Marty sal, staring across to th
Art Gallery.
“You couldn’t believe what they, were t«
me, those girls and the Missus, I used to
tell ’em me troubles, and go to them when
I wanted a pat on the back. I’d hear ’em
whispering in the night, and chatting and
rustling when the sun was on 'em. I loved
them —they were me family, all I'd got. in
the world. They watched me all day, and
were company for me all night. They're
watching up there now, wondering what’s
become of me, and when I'll come, .down
the track again. I only came down for s
.trip, my dears.” He caught his breath and
was silent. .
“Ifs all there now, Danny, just as. it
was?’’ Marty asked in the pause.
“Just as it was. And the key in m<
pocket to unlock the door again.” .
For a space Marty watched the back of
the Art Gallery. “Got. any money on yon
Danny?” he asked finally.
“About six pounds. I don't spend, much.
Why?”
Marty stood up. I waning over the sur-
prised Danny ho laughed, and was abruptly
grave and earnest, “Go back,” . lie said,
watching the light leap into Danny’s eyes.
“You never got your memory back except for
little things that don’t matter. You’re San’
Smith now; only tlie'Sam Smith of you ii
alive. Go back to your trees and what you
made out of nothing. It’s your place.”
“Rut what about”——
“Oh, write to them.” Marty brushed them
wearily aside. “Or don’t write to them —
it won’t matter. They’ll be glad to see
the hack of you. And you’ll be home again
with your family. Come on —we'll go t(
the station now. I’ll telephone toi the shop.”
Anina.
H L. BURROWS
TELLS A STORY OF A QUICK WEDDING AND A SUDDEN
DEATH.
MOST of us at the office were pleased,
I think, even though it amazed us, to
hear of Dick Stretton’s precipitate
marriage whilst he was on holidays in the
Blue Mountains. It had evidently been an
intensely romantic affair, for rumor said his
wife was young and beautiful, the daughter
of an old and aristocratic Italian family.
. i'' os ; set . our senior partner, was incensed.
Old Charlie, as we disrespectfully called him,
was a bachelor and nearing the sixties. A
heavy, unhealthy old fellow with an irascible
temper.
• fool,” he spluttered, when he heard
ft. "Spoilt all his chances. Marriage and
business don’t mix. What would have be-
come of me if I’d married?”
The amazing part of it was that Stretton
was the last man whom one would suspect
of romantic tendencies. Clear-witted, sober
and methodical as a machine, lie was just
in the thirties and had been junior partner
for hie years, tilling most efficiently the
place vacated by his father. During that
time he had become the brains and heart
of the firm,' as Fosset realised when Stret-
ton, for the first time during the partner-
ship, declared he was taking a month in
the mountains.
"Can't be spared,” Fosset grumbled. “Going
just at our busiest time.”
But though Fosset wired to Stretton about
every other day after tl:e first week to
come back, there was no reply until Stretton
turned up at the end of the month, and
with him his wife.
He came down to the office, I remember,
on the Saturday morning of his return. His
announcement nearly caused Fosset’s death
of apoplexy.
“I'm taking another month,” he said,
serenely.
Fosset’s eyes bulged. “Wha’ for?” he
stammered.
“Honeymoon. Get Burton from Melbourne
if you can’t carry on.”
Stretton closed the office door on Fosset’s
language, and crossed to where I was sitting.
“Come up to-night, will you, old fellow?”
he asked. “Can’t get any good out of
Charlie, and I want to talk things over.
Besides,” he added, with studied careless-
ness, “I want you to meet the wife. I’m
still at the Gravesend. Suite of rooms on
the third floor.”
It had not been unusual for me to spend
an evening with Stretton at the hotel. As
foreign buyer to the firm I passed nearly
as much time in London and Paris as in
Sydney, and on returning home always made
a private report to Stretton. Then the fact
of an attachment between Stretton’s sisfer
and myself gave me the privilege- of an
intimacy with him that otherwise I might
not have had. He was not a man who made
friends easily.
Pt turned out to be a cold night, with
rain ; and, defended against the weather by
a thick overcoat and umbrella, I walked to
the Gravesend for the sake of warmth. In
the rain-drenched light of ■ the street the
huge building looked grey and ghostly; like
a ghost with a thousand eyes, I thought. In
one place, however, the general and spectral
effect was broken by a splash of light that
swung round the corner on the third storey.
Stretton’s suite.
The genial warmth and red cosiness of
the electrically-heated apartment into which
Stretton received me compensated for the
churlishness of the night outside, and it was
not long before vve were engrossed in a
conversation which, I am afraid, had little
eo do with the firm’s business. I had been
invited to dinner, but having made an
appointment with a customer for that hour
it had been rather late when -.1 arrived.
Stretton seemed dreamily happy, and in-
clined to be confidential.
“You must excuse Anina,” he said, whc;
we had settled down. “She has a beadacht-
or something, and is resting; but she hm
ju'omised to come out and see you befor<
you leave.”
Presently, recalling himself from at
amused reverie, he said:
“I suppose the news created a bit of a
stir at the office?”
“Yes,” I admitted. "We refused to be-
lieve it without proof, but Claythorpe saw
you together on the golf-links, and got the
storv first-hand.”
“Sneaky beggar, Claythorpe,” commented
Stretton. "That was the only time we were
away from the villa. But I suppose I t
better tell you the whole story.”
He looked at me for signs of interest. Tin
signs being evident, lie proceeded:
“I had been sticking pretty close to work,
as you know, and I made up my mind in
a hurry to take that month off. I didn’t
w 7 ant to get mixed up with a hotel crowd
of chattering women, so I advertised for a
quiet place somewhere away from the main
centres. A few days after my advertise-
ment I received a letter from an Italian
lady, who signed herself Francesca Corviello.
The letter was perfumed and quaintly writ-
ten. It aroused my curiosity. You may
think me a fool, but; I replied to the letter,
giving the: date and timfe I might be expected.
“At the station none of the taxi-men
seemed to know the address the Signora had
given, but at last we found an old man who
said he knew it; had done some gardening ]
there, and took out the weekly supplies, I
think; and we started out over a little-used
bush-track that led us into the heart of a
hidden and magnificent’ valley. Finally,
after about five miles of slow travelling, we
pulled up at an old picket-fence that made
a pretence of enclosing a vast, rambling
wilderness of a garden. It was. a garden ir
a garden, for the whole valley, sheltered b T
the blue-misted mountains heaped up all
about it. was a riot of wild growth. . When
one thinks about it, there must be scores I
of such beauty-spots tucked away in the
mountains, but, to me it was like entering
anew world. Back in the trees could be
seen the chimneys and gables of an old-time
house, built. I should say, after the style of
the less-modern Italian villas. I dismissed
the car, and walked up the leaf-strewn
avenue to the house, only half-realising that
with the departure of the car my immediate
connection with the township and the city
had been severed.
“The Signora, a grey-haired, impulsive
little woman with mittened wrists, welcomed
me effusively. She seemed dreadfully afraid I
might be disappointed with the place, and
go away.
“ ‘Only a tumbling villa and an. oh’
woman.’ she said. ‘But you will stay
amico ; mig? You will stay?’ - ,
“I stayed, because it was a choice between
staying and walking five miles, with the
certainty of getting hopelessly bushed.
“In two days I was quite at home. Tin
Signora was a charming hostess and most
refreshing, company. „
“‘Why did you reply to my advertise-
ment?’ I asked, on one occasion.
“The Signora shrugged her small shoulders,
and spread her hands.
“ ‘Ah” she sighed, ‘I am poor, and must
have money.’
“I looked at. her deprecatingly. She
laughed ecstaticaljv,
“ ‘No. it is not that What, is it that.-makes I
life so entrancing? Is it not thqt 'it- is so
full of surprises,, of little adventures? 1
(Continued on next page.)


CHRONIC BACKACHE
Rheumatism, Lumbago
BE WARNED IN TIME
-rrf ♦
NATURE IS TELLING YOU TO TAKE THIS SOUND ADVICE
Sudden dizziness, head-swimming, sight blurred, chronic
backache, a weak, helpless feeling, almost ready to faint
—be warned! Nature is telling you in unmistakable
terms of deep-seated Kidney Trouble.
It is no use trying to ward off these attacks with heart-
exciting drugs which may ‘buck you up” for an hour
only to leave you weaker than before. You cannot
neglect these symptoms unless you wish to wait for total
health break-down.
Do you know there are a host of women ready and
willing to tell you they ended all the dread symptoms of
Kidney Trouble in an inexpensive, quick manner, simply
by taking a short course of De Witt’s Pills?
The kidneys, in health, act as the great cleansing and
purifying centre for every drop of the body's blood
supply. They should filter and pass out from the system
any excess of uric acid. When they
fail in their duty, your health fails
and pain and suffering result.
That is why the only pos-
sible remedy for
Rheumatism,
-<h>
<r
•c
B
gifc
•=Zp
?J*
<2*
m
%
£* {
\'o
Ar.
-v.
e rj>
#
<o^
Ca^
ft
S
Md
c Wr
lltfl
re
r»
PC
ss?
\
Sciatica, Lumbago, or Gout must act directly on the
kidneys, and that is why we state clearly and definitely
that the world-famous De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills
are guaranteed to do this, purifying the blood, ridding it
entirely of pain-giving poisons, and restoring splendid
vigor and vitality.
Why not let De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills start
you on the road to health to-day? Go to your chemist
and get a 3/6, or the larger, more economical size, 6/6,
supply. Take them regularly. You will be amazed how
quickly your health will improve. Your chemist can tell
you all about the prescription from which De Witt’s
are made. It is clearly printed on the box. Further-
more, he sells this remedy under distinct guarantee that
in 24 hours you will see and know the pills have started
their health-restoring action. If not, your money is
refunded. With this guarantee surely you will not stay
crippled with ill-health longer? Let De Witt’s bring you,
as they have brought thousands of others, strength, health
and happiness.
READ THIS LETTER—JUST ONE OF THOUSANDS
Mrs. E. Deacon, 48 Locksley Avenue, Merrylands. Sydney, says:
"For nine months I suffered with bad backache. It was just as if
a fork had been dug in my back. I could not sleep with the pain. As
for doing my cleaning, when I got down on my knees / could hardly
get up. The pain attacked, me, everyivhere. No one knows what I
went through with my Kidneys. I started taking Dc Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills. They have done me the world of good. I get
up better, fresher at five in the morning without trouble or pain.
I blame myself for not taking ‘De Witt’s’ before.”
KIDNEY
AND
BLADDER
PILLS
m
sC\
A////' X
*
0
M/k
%
'h
■y
**A 1
m
am—what you call it —-an adventuress? You
are one of my surprise-packets. See?’ She
flirted out of the room, singing something
in Italian.
“ ‘Aren’t you ever lonely?’ I asked, when
she returned.
"In an instant she was grave and sad-
eyed, almost tearful.
" ‘At times,’ she said. ‘At times. You
see. I long for Anina.’
"‘ls that Anina whose protrait hangs
above the mantelpiece?’ I had spent much,
t ime studying that portrait.
“ ‘Ah !’ exclaimed the Signora. ‘You have
guessed. Is she not beautiful?’ I admitted
it.
“ ‘Anina’.... Toe Signora rambled on
reminiscently. ‘My sister died in giving
her birth. Is it not that Nature formed
Anina, and then broke the mould? Anina
would be an artist, you know, and she
travels in England, in France, in our beloved
Italy that she may study the Great Masters.
Someday she will return.’
“Anina did return —unexpectedly. In the
road one day there was the sound, of a
car. The horn squealed in playful impera-
tiveness, and the Signora and 1 ran out to
see. what, had happened. When she saw
Anina, the Signora was beside herself with,
delight. .
“Anina, quite used, no doubt, to the Sig-
nora’s ways, seemed to take me for granted.
‘The little madre so loves surprise’s,’ she
said, in explanation of the unannounced
advent.”
Stretton threw the stub of his cigar into
the ash-tray, leaned back, and gazed abstrac-
tedly at the rose-patterned ceiling.
“There is no need to tell you any -more,”
he resumed abruptly. “I suppose the environ-
ment had something to do with it, but if
Anina absent had cast such a spell “on me
by reason of her portrait, what could I do
with Anina present? I asked her to marry
me—at once. I couldn’t bear to have to leave
her and come back here. Charlie Fosset—
laugh! ‘Of course I will marry you, Ricardo
mio,' Anina said when I asked her. ‘The
little, madre so loves surprises.’ I don’t
think the Signora was surprised, after all,”
Stretton concluded, chuckling contentedly.
A moment later there was' a faint sound
outside the door of the apartment; the door
moved slowly open: and Anina stood before
us, ravishingly girlish and beautiful in her
soft white gown, and with a gleaming smile
that illumined a perfect face and scintillated
in eyes blue as the mountain mist#' them-
selves. •
Stretton and I rose together. He with
the evident pleasure it gave him to make
the introduction, and Ia little dazed at the
beauty of this* woman—this woman with the
gracefully-posed head and delicate manner-
isms. whose unmistakable features l knew
I had seen somewhere before. Almost im-
mediately I remembered where I had seen
her. and the memory stunned me. Limply, I
took the slender hand that was offered, and
Stretton’s mild laugh and words of intro-
duction seemed' miles away—-in Another
world. I made a courageous effort it self-
recovery. but it was too late, Anini’s keen-
eyes had read in mine that for which, no
doubt, she searched the face of every stranger
- —first inquiry, then recognition.
She excused herself to me, and in response
to Stretton’s solicitous question about her
headache, said that it had not improved and
that she would retire.
Going to where Stretton was standing, she
threw her arms about his neck, whispered
some fond endearment as she clung to him.
and kissed him passionately. She seemed
loath to leave him, and it was with a
weary sigh that she reluctantly turned to-
wards the door, bidding me a cold and formal
good-night.
As she was going out, the door being
between herself and Streeton, she looked
back for a moment at me, and her face
was transfixed with anew and amazing
expression. Her lips were taut and forced
into a bitter smile ; her teeth hard-clenched;
her eyes, fiery points of malignant hate. To
her I must have been the harbinger of a
merciless fate.
Then the door closed, and Strettou and l
were alone again. Stretton was watching
me curiously, suspiciously.
“You recognised my wife,” be said, un-
equivocally.
A denial was impossible, yet mentally I
fumbled for some falsehood that would dis-
arm suspicion, and restore good feeling. I
had no desire to destroy his happiness, or,
for that matter, the happiness of his wife.
Yet, for aught I knew, Stretton might have
teen the victim of some subtle, dastardly
plot. It was a devastating dilemma. Time
to think I needed, and there was no time.
With Stretton’s eyes boring into my very
soul, I had begun to stammer some feeble,
incoherent excuses, when the crack of a pis-
tol-shot, vicious, like the snapping of a
steel-blade, startled him out of his concen-
tration and me out of my bewilderment.
Across his face there swept a wave of
swift and awful comprehension, leaving it
smitten and haggard; and he made for the
door. In a kind of stupefied helplessness, I
followed.
The body of Anina lay on the carpeted
floor of an apartment across the hall. In
one out-flung hand she still held a small and
deadly automatic, and her white gown was
wet and crimson at the breast. Stretton
went down beside her. and lifted the delicate
head in his arms, calling her name in tremu-
lous, pleading tones. For a moment Anina's
eyes flickered open, and with a last supreme
effort, though it sent a spasm of pain across
her face, she lifted her arms about her hus-
band’s neck.
"I loved you,” she whispered, almost
inaudibly. “i loved you.” Then the arras
relaxed, and the head dropped back again.
Stretton rose and faced me, his eyes blaz-
ing with fury, his attitude threatening. In
that moment he could have done anything;
but, gradually, the heat died out of his face,
leaving it ashen. He made a helpless little
gesture with his hands, and sat down. In
a moment or two, except for: a dry light
in his eyes and a thinness of the lips, his
expression was normal. He was holding him-
self under marvellous self-control.
“Now.”, he said, in an even voice, “you
are going to tell me all you know. Every-
thing.”
With a sickening sense of guiltiness for
the whole, tragedy I told him what I knew.
Told him that in Anina I had recognised
Doree Derue, the notorious French actress
and woman of the world, whose trial for the
murder of her lover I had so keenly followed
during my last tour abroad. The sensational
disclosures at the trial had set all Paris
agog, and Doree’s history, even apart from
the inevitable exaggerations, was not a
pretty one. The police evidence had been
confused, and Doree acquitted, but the
stigma remained, and Doree had gone into
obscurity. I softened the story as much as
possible for Stretton’s sake. Doree’s trans-
cendent beauty had betrayed her.
Stretton, who had been sitting with fingers
clenched as I told the story, continued
motionless for a while. His lips had fallen
apart in a queer cynical smile. Then, with
a glance, eloquent of lingering pity and
regret, at his wife's prostrate but still beauti-
ful body, he l'ose deliberately and went
through the open doorway to the telephone
on the hall table.
Not wishing to be left alone in that room,
I followed him closely.
“Hello?” I heard him call in a hard, im-
personal voice. “Is that Police Headquar-
ters? I want you to send along a man. At
once, please. My wife has committed
suicide.”
A second later he had turned the dial
for another number, repeating the figures to
himself iis the dial revolved. It was Fosset’s
private number.
“Is that you. Charlie?” he asked. “Yes.
Stretton here. I am just ringing to say that
there is no need to get Burton from Mel-
bourne. I will be at the office as usual on
Monday.”
He repeated the information—a little
irritably, I thought. Perhaps Fosset could
not quite grasp what was being said, or
was asking useless questions, his fleshy
eyebrows popping in perplexity.
Turning to me, Stretton said:
“I think, old man, I would like to be left
alone. I’ll see you on Monday.”
Ignoring the lift, and forgetting my coat
and umbrella, I went downstairs and out
into the rain.
Chance Meeting.
I.
How many things old Time has blown to
sand —
The crawling masses of his moments
swarm !
Beauty of memory, beauty of feature,
beauty of form !
Alone by the four-roads crossing I saw you
stand!
The heavy press of the autumn wind was
warm.
And then came haggard visions! Oceans
agleam.
The blue hills moving nearer home at
noon,
A shimMler and swell of fields in mid-
afternoon ;
Tapering fingers of willows caressing a
stream,
Dnsk and a boat and a kindly, pallid
moon.
I saw you waiting in a desolate place:
I did not ask for sun in that mornings
dismal hues,
For memory’s a-weary now of asking what
gods refuse!
I dared not turn to your strangely tranquil
face!
The dead leaves drifted against your
crumpled shoes.
11.
So we have met! Not laughing as of old.
Not laughing, neither happy nor afraid;
We have grown older, dear, we have grown
staid
(A wind-rush swirls in dust and then falls
cold).
So you have come! Your languid fingers fold
My own. “Be not alarmed,” you say;
“all’s dead !”
Behind your eyes, perhaps, lie thoughts
unsaid,
And there arc many thoughts my lips with-
hold.
You’ve come; and with you (as across calm
seas,
Across quiet stars, the storm-banks swoop
and burst
Till basking schooners struggle at their
chains
And every stone in the breakwater
strains),
In drifts of cloud and sun, of best and
worst.
The grave, slow tempest of our memories.
VICTORIA.
FURNLEY MAURICE.
Now It’s Springtime.
Now it’s Springtime, in the morning
There’s a pallid cuckoo calling,
There’s a plaintive cuckoo calling
Prom the road beside the sea;
There’s a mist of blossom falling
Where the buds are still unfolding,
And the orchard trees are holding
In their sun-entangled branches
All the sweets that yet will be.
Now it’s Springtime, every morning
There’s a dew upon the bracken,
On the amber-fronded bracken
Running wildly to the sea;
And the rude young breezes slacken,
Piping airy fairy marches,
In among the tea-tree arches,
Where the frail clematis fingers
Weave their fancy stitchery!
Now it's Springtime, in the morning
I’ll be going, I’ll be going.
I’ll be up and gladly going
With the first-awakened bee;
Down a sandy way I’m knowing
I'll be laughing, I'll be leaping.
Where the pig-face roots are creeping
And the boats all newly painted
Dean toward the sapphire sea.
VICTORIA.
MYRA MOREIS.


WEST! N G HOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—ilUUlKs £ OHI/ItCH, Itrisbane. fniurnniv UtECT M t UIIIEC
N.Z. Olttce—o3-107 I'eatherston Street, Wellington. IUIItUHU ITEoI, W. 0. HALLO
V.ietorian • Oflloe—“Chancery House,’' 485 liourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents! Messrs. ELDER, SMITH St CO., LTD., Adelaide. S.A.
*
m
tm.
m
Queensland’s Greatest Advertising Medium,
VzhQ
“BRISBANE COURIER”
Carries more advertising than two other Brisbane dailies combined.
for 6 months,
Ending June 31, ’29
Two other Dailies
for same period
14,216
13,7584
Advertising
Columns.
Advertising
Columns.
The “Brisbane Courier” is the largest and most reliable financial,
commercial and home paper in Queensland.
First in Circulation, Coverage, Advertising and Influence.
Published by THE BRISBANE NEWSPAPER CO.,
Courier Building, Queen Street, Brisbane.
Syd. Rep.: ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“THE AGE”
Established 185Jf.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
No advertising campaign can be success-
ful if the quality of the product adver-
tised does not contain full value for
the price asked.
If your products can meet these require-
ments, “The Age” will prove a valuable
medium for creating goodwill, and
will considerably lessen the time in
moving them from storage to consumer.
Merchants and Manufacturers of quality
products in ever increasing numbers
are realising the truth of the slogan
“It Pays to Advertise,” and are direct-
ing their efforts in marketing through
the columns of “The Age” as a neces-
sary medium for business promotion in
Victoria.
Audited Net Daily Circulation
123,533.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office;: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
the Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” map be
obtained at all inter state agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price 1 id.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
P. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8VV7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
IF YOU DESIRE
TO REACH THE
TASMANIAN
BUYING PUBLIC
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
should carry your message.
Everywhere —all over the State, in Town and
Country—this Popular Weekly goes regularly
into the homes of the people, and each
issue is eagerly read by men, women and
children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest, with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays. Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 223
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: ‘Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
What's the matter with you ?
You know there s something wrong
with you ? What is it ? Your liver
and stomach upset ? Then you're
More often than not the faulty
functioning of the digestive
organs, brought on by Constipa-
tion, is the cause of Biliousness.
Failure of the bowels to act
properly, results in poison acc-
umulating in the system which
upsets the stomach, giving rise to
biliousness, headaches, loss of
energy and appetite.
These are signals. Take action!
Take Beecham’s Pills.! They
assist nature and keep the system
regular and healthy.
\
• l *
irJ
C
, ••*
1
cm
t ■ *
- \
u
R.
/K
m
v„l £
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24 1929
No 44
u
f*
/ .V
m
, a i
THIS WEEK’S FREE PATTERN
f See paee 64)
64 Pages
of
Reading for the Horn'
STORIED VERSE, SPECIAL
ARTICLES
Fashions, Needlework,
Health, Household,
Books, etc.
Published by
*ou£let&
fsd
Over 1 60,000 Copies Sold Every^Week
t*
k.
y
i
6
tit
0°
e>*
*«*
s 6
t^ c6 o^-
.•*,«*,, T»~
•* * V l<iV V> v o T


-V
& Jtp
-Jt *
racrr-jw -,.flK2rr=^'£il
;r*r,
-4v...
1-
- -»
. **■>-* ir
i
Ac ~ (
Ar a;
* tsgk —
ss
s*
<*^r
V 6&JT *
7f
/*!
/
A
SPORTS SEDAN
fsd
A FINER-
Dodge Brothers Value
Rarely do you find a car whose appearance wins your ad-
miration so quickly—whose performance earns your con-
fidence so completely—as the new Dodge Brothers Six,
Its exclusive mono-piece body is as smart and quiet as it is
stable and strong. Its motor and chassis are endowed with
many modern betterments and refinements.
Everything you would expect from a Dodge Brothers car is
here— including the low price .
f
DODGE- BROTHERS SIX
60 6 589
iggi Chrysler Motors Product
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales Harden & Johnston, Ltd., Sydney
Victoria . . Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Vic.) Pty., Ltd:, Melbourne
Queensland Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane
South Australia . . Waymouth Motor Company, Ltd., Adelaide
Western Australia . . Winterbottom Motor Company, Ltd., Perth
Tasmania Co-operative Motors, Ltd., Hobart
