

iic [allicv OniibftiAi
step*
lo mf
*«***&
m
m
<6
t M 7 ///
f A
■** so« e
Dont A^6 ue
f| u i*o«£
S ~>s.
w
tHK
m
v£C7-
cvecr
;
is complete
without Hatton
PINEAPPLE
HAMS * BACON
J. C. HUTTON PTY., LTD.
(Division of United Provisions, Ltd.),
Brisbane, Canterbury, Melbourne, Fremantle and Launceston.
R. S. Maynard, Advertising.
The Bulletin
4hMd (oJku) lyxj rfdlwtf 9vyAuisb
Vol. 50.—N0. 2599.
Wednesday, December 4, 1929.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


VY7RITE for the Library Catalogue and
** terms, and lists on all subjects, which
will be forwarded post free on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-42 6 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
d
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My liame
My Address
S.B . ...»
OLY SAG HT
o
0
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght's Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
d
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
V*-
¥
r t
Had
Yo|ir
Cream of Yeast
To-day
LIFE!
Amalgamated Laboratories, liembla Building, Sydney,
, and all Chemists.
Handsome Men Have
Well-groomed Hair
“Oh! I thought you were much older than
that. I suppose your hair gives that impres-
sion.” Not very tactful, but that’s how women
think of a man whose hair is thin or grey.
Keep your hair, and you are young. Use
“Vi-Glo” and watch results! See it grow
new hair in quick time: see the rich color
come back; the grey tinges go! Watch the
Ladies ! You’ll know by that how successful
“Vi-Glo” is. Don’t regard “Vi-Glo” as a hair
wash ; it’s a scientific scalp-invigorator. Costs
only 3/- for the complete outfit at any
chemist’s, or you can get it by post for 3/4
from Vi-Glorient Company, Kembla Building,
Sydney. Money back if not surprised and
delighted with the quick results.
“The Woman’s
Published every
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
Interest to women.
Macmillan's
NEW BOOKS
The prices cdvertised are those at which the
boohs are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Australia and the British
Commonwealth
By the Hon. J. G. LATHAM,
K.C., M.A., L.L.8., Attorney-
General of the Commonwealth of
Australia. [lmmediately.
The Sovereignty of the British
Dominions
By A. BERRIEDALE KEITH,
D.C.L., D.Litt., Regius Professor
of Sanskrit and Comparative
Philology in the University of
. Edinburgh. 1 Bs. net.
THE GREAT POLITICAL
BIOGRAPHY OF THE YEAR.
Lord Lansdowne
By LORD NEWTON, P.C. With
portraits.
NEW NOVELS.
Hans Frost
By HUGH WALPOLE.
[Dominions Edition.
Illustrated London News: “‘Haris Frost’
is a masterpiece. It is a splendid addition to
the long line of novels that fitly express the
breadth and insight of the English literary
genius.”
Whiteoaks
By MAZO DE LA ROCHE,
author of “Jalna,” the famous
novel which won the “Atlantic
Monthly” prize of 10,000
dollars. The October selection
of the Book Society.
[Empire Library.
To be Obtained from alt
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
ď
HOUSE FLIES
ARE POTENT
CARRIERS OF,
DISEASE AND
FILTH.
d
ď
II
IS NOT A GERMAN
POWDER.
.Sold Everywhere.
PRICE 1/-
The Red Page
A Book of Beauty
The title of H. M. Green’s narrative faery
poem, The Book of Beauty (Dent; Angus
and Robertson), suggests a supreme egotism.
Of course Mr Green means nothing of the
kind. The “book” is Faery and the loveli-
ness in the pages of Faery. But even if the
title ’were used in the egotistical sense, it
would not be wide of the mark. It is a
book of beauty. Loveliness dreams through
it, wavering in a quiet half-light.
Amazingly, it is written in this year of
grace, or rather, as the poet confesses, in
the spare time of the last four years, and
is literature, and has not a sniff of the dung-
hill about it. There are other astonishing
virtues. It is meant to be verse, and it is
verse, rhymed verse at that. It blends
admirably those ancient elements of the
poetic unit which the dunghill poets and the
gushful poseurs have lost in their trans-
parent trickery—beauty, ordered rhythm,
melody, thought. It is a love poem in which
the sentiment is never sentimentality. To
read it is to get a lease of happiness. The
poet has a clean, a childlike faith and the gift
of passing it on. It is the sort of book that
makes you feel glad it was written and that
you have read it.
On the credit side also lies an interesting
narrative. A warm living girl who used to
hear her man’s footsteps on the wind becomes
ice. She seems to encourage, chastely, with-
out thought of guerdon, other lovers. Dis-
tressed, the man dreams, and to him appears
Ad Bridget Mary, long since dead; Irish,
and gifted with the Sight.
Said Mary: “Sure, she’s been beguiled
Into the kingdoms of Faery
By starry music stealing through
Some gallery in the unguarded heart.”
He is to go to the king of the wood and
knock upon his massiye bole. Thus he
enters the kingdom, which happens to be a
queendom, meets the queen and has his love
put to the test. He is tempted with the
beauties of Faery and alternately threatened
by such horrors as Faery can conjure up.
Finally, on the mountain height, a parapet
overlooking the world, he wins to his Love.
Fire is caused to wake from the ground
between them, but he goes into it and,
unharmed, claims his love. The narrative
power lies, naturally, in the management of
suspense, contrived through these tempta-
tions and threatenings. Once he falls, but
as the queen philosophically sums it,
if occasion did o’erwhelm
Your prudence once, what man had been
Unmindful of my moon-bright maid?
It was a good dramatic idea to strike
contrast between the materialist lover and
his idealist Love, and another good idea to
have the guardian old nurse Irish, which
gives a traditional credibility to the plot.
But, though the setting is traditionally
Irish, the particular properties are extra-
ordinarily Australian. There is no definite
reference to Australia anywhere in the
poem, but there is no doubt of where the
lover lives immediately it is said concern-
ing the tales that Bridget Mary told: —
Old tales for children; simple tales
Made by a people of antique mind
On their far green isle in the grey North Sea;
Tales idle as they are beautiful....
which, in addition to locating the lover,
clearly defines his character. Again, the
king of the wood is as obviously a great-
gum as if it had been so labelled; and when
the lovers, politely declining the queen’s
invitation to stay, win back to earth, this
is the sort of place to which they return: —
The old familiar sunlight shone
On the old familiar world, and we,
From a high hill above the sea,
Beheld the blue and burning bay
Snowfleeked with sails, and once again
The red roofs and the long roar
Of the surf-ringed city rose and lay
Like arms around us.
Sydney, of course; and a beautiful picture
of it, too.
Mr. Green would doubtless admit to two
literary godfathers—Dante and Yeats, the
latter for conception of the general setting,
the former for narrative manner, and for
method in picturisation, hinted in the spec-
tacle of the pit:—
Insensibly the greying gloom
Grew 7 light enough, arid I could see
The creature pacing endlessly
Was a panther black as ebony.
He paced ten paces cramped and small
From the red wall to the red wall
Of the grim pit, and back again
Ten paces, and another ten,
And then another, till my brain
Grew wearied counting ten and ten
And ten for ever. At each stride
The muscles of his silken side
Flowed liquid, like soft music made
By a slow stream in a cool shade.
The poet’s most striking weakness lies in.
the absence of particular color. Few poets,
and very few Australian poets, know any-
thing at all about color; yet it should be
one of the most important weapons in their
armory. The poet’s color is indefinite
throughout, and though this might be
excused on the ground that the excursion
is through a nebulous world, there are
occasions when the particular is necessary:
for example, the women with whom he is
tempted must be more than wraiths, or the
temptation were too easy. The reader has
to be tempted also, since he is human and
so is the one who is tempted. That could
have been ensured by a careful use of color.
But such defects can be easily passed over
in a poet who gives so much pleasure for —
because of his disarming simplicity—so little
effort.
CECIL MANN.
German War Books
The first book which comes to the tongue
when speaking of German war books —not
war novels—is Erich Maria Remarque’s “Ini
Westen Nichts Neues,” the English title of
which is “All Quiet on the Western Front.”
Nobody knows who Remarque is. All softs
of stories are told about him—that the name
is a pseudonym; that he was never at the
front; that he is an elderly man; that he
was only employed behind the lines, and,
being sent to hospital by a stray bullet, got
alt his material there ; that he is a political
pamphleteer. Neither Remarque nor his
publisher enter the wordy affray, as the
doubt, argument and mystery are good for
the sale of the book. Besides, no matter
who or what Remarque was during the war,
the book lives on its own merits. If it is
fiction, then it is the most remarkable work
of fiction ever produced.
Ludwig Renn’s “Krieg” (War) almost
rivals “Jm Westen Nichts Neues” in both
popularity and sales. Remarque is out to
impress, and writes always for effect, which
is sometimes hidden by the marvellous
simplicity of hi's style and by the
realism which is at times disgusting;
whereas Renn’s book is a straight-
forward account of experiences, a nar-
rative pure and simple of the life at the
front, relying on its matter for effect, and
with very little use of dramaturgy. One
is given the impression that Remarque
wrote his book quite recently, and that
Renn’s was written shortly after the events
described in it took place. Remarque de-
picts the more dramatic, effective and out-
standing episodes, while Renn gives more
details of the trench life from day to day
and does not mention such things as gas
or tanks with any surprise.
The attitude of the two men to the war
was quite different. Remarque pictures the
destruction of his generation, the downfall
of all its ideals and the killing of all hopes
for the future, remaining during the whole
period a private, looking forward to the end
only, with a little too much self-pity. Renn
was a soldier through and through. His
ambition drove him to the position of ser-
geant-major, and his book shows a camara-
derie existing between the officers and men
much different from that in “Im Westen
Nichts Neues,” where it seems to be non-
existent except between men of the same
rank. Both books, however, have in com-
mon the growth of comradeship and show
the development of mood at the front—
from boasting to action; from thoughts of
quick advance and victory to content at
being able to hold their own ground; from
hunger to despair, followed by a dull hang-
ing-on, with thoughts of revolution and of
the uselessness of it all. The psychology
of the soldier who realised towards the end
of the war that he had been duped is better
depicted by Renn th'an by Remarque, whose
“hero” died on a day in October, 1918,
“when the army reports were limited to the
laconic sentence: ‘All quiet on the Western
front,.’ ”
Renn’s book tells also of his fight against
cowardice, through which he indirectly won
the Iron Cross, whereas Remarque had no
feeling of this kind. He would have come
out of the field ruined in health and with
no ideals to help him to carry on. Renn
came out of the war still an n.c.o. in
thought, and with no worries about the
future. The difference between the two
men was that one was a soldier by nature,
the other was not. To say which of the
two books is the better is impossible. Re-
marque’s is plaintive, depressing, despair-
ing, horrifying. Renn’s is equal in horror,
but has the optimism given by more action
and less reflection, and an almost total lack
of the self-interest and egoism coupled with
self-pity which form such a large part of
the other book. Both will live as pictures
of the same thing, reaching, though observed
from different angles, the same result: that
it was all useless, murderous and criminal;
and that the writers had been deceived right
from the beginning. As Renn says: “The
war became always more and more suspi-
cious to me.”
A third book, by Ernst Glaeser, with the
untranslatable title of “Jahrgang, 1902,” is
quite different. It tells of the experiences of
a boy bom in 1902 growing to adolescence
during the war. It comes under the head-
ing of war books because of its invaluable
description of the state of things in Ger-
many at this time. It gives an excellent
picture of pre-war Germany and of the feel-
ings of the people, which began wdth arro-
gance and boasting, and went from them
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


Because their advertisements embody “Truth in Advertising you
know you can depend on everything Anthony Horderns say.
Priceless Gifts at Any Price
BOORS!
And for the Finest Collection-
(The Senior Store).
and pence. Neither can the gift of a book be considered in the light
the largest book department in a ret
Australia. Mdreover* its sales force is thoroughly competent to help you select your gitt books.
The value of a good book is not to be reckoned in shillings and pence
of cold figures.
As no doubt you know, Anthony Horderns have perhaps the largest book departmentjn a retai! establishment of this kind m
The perfect gift is a good book. The place to buy it is at Anthony Horderns .
Below is only a small list chosen ftom the very large collection of books we have on our shelves.
BOORS FOR CHILDREN
Price. Postage.
Australian Boys’ Annual; long and
short stories and articles 5/9 -/H
Blackie’s Children’s Annual; a charm-
ing collection of stories for children. 5/9 -/ll
Blackie’s Little Ones’ Annual; simple
and attractive stories 3/1.1 -/7
Boys’ Own Annual; a splendid book of
stirring serial and short stories. 13/9 1/9
Cassell’s Children’s Annual; a great
favorite with children 5/9 -/ll
Chatterbox; a popular children’s
annual 5/9 -/ll
Chums; the most popular boys’ book;
splendid school and adventure
stories
Collins’s Schoolboys’ Annual; one of
the best of boys’ books
Girls’ Own Annual; a superior produc-
tion with excellent reading matter.
Greyfriar’s Holiday Annual; exploits of
the famous schoolboy characters
from St. Jim’s and Rookwood
Schools
Price. Postage.
13/6 1/9
5/9 -/n
13/9 1/9
6/11 -/10
Little Dots; an attractive little annual of fascinating stories
Our Darlings; an abundance of short stories ?
Oxford Annual for Boys; stories by the most popular authors 1’ ' 1 ‘ V • 1
Schoolgirls’ Annual; interesting articles on homecraft and numerous sc oo s ones
Tiger Tim’s Annual; the children’s favorite ’ * ‘ '
Price. Postage.
2/11 -/5
3/11 -/9
5/9 -/11
6/11 -/n
6/11 -/ll
THE LATEST NOVELS, 5/3
The Rich Young Man, by G. H. Attenborough.
Up the Country, by Brent of Ben Bin.
Courts of the Morning, by John Buchan.
Singing Gold, by Dorothy Cottrell.
A Maker of Frocks, by Edward E. Davies.
The Altar of Honour, by Ethel M. Dell.
Redwood and Gold, by Jackson Gregory.
Sentinel of the Desert, by Jackson Gregory.
Wild Horse Mesa, by Zane Grey.
The Man Who Found Himself, by Naomi Jacob.
Jim the Conqueror, by Peter B. Kyne.
The Parson of Panamint, by Peter B. Kyne.
Slaves of God, by Katharine Mayo.
By Soochow Waters, by Louise J. Miln.
Me and Shorty, by C. E. Mulford.
Valley of Enchantment, by Kathlyn Rhodes.
This Strange Adventure, by Mary R. Rinehart.
Temple Tower, by Sapper.
Above the Bright Blue Skies,
by Elliot White Springs.
(Dept., Second Floor. Postage extra.)
Anthony Horderns'
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
Si
By SOOCHOW WaJcRS
MMmm
great
modern
BRITISH
PLAYS
Greo-t
Poems
oF
Enq'isß
Lanquoq e
Alvin G" ,ccS
II
SINGING
ifi nil
COLD
c j r eattfavic j ato ri
and Pis Co verehs
I3A Srendon j
OOROTHY
COTrREU
mz
53
53
93
25'
Postage sd. extra.
Postage
rod.
C 1 Postage
V 7 lOd.
./Postage 1/3
Postage 8d
SOLDI EttS
XMISFOICrOHEI
> HELEN
sS
EOftCETTE HEYER
-Postage sd.


Ti
V
Va
s
fX- ; ±±; £ : ; ;
m
READY FOR TEE COAC
EVERY Nash on the salesroom floor is fully equipped
from bumpers to tyre locks. There are no 6 ‘extras”
to buy.
Mechanical advantages of the Nash “400” include high
turbulence, high compression, 7-bearing crankshaft mo-
tors which add to power, speed, smoothness and fuel
economy.
Outboard mounted hydraulic shock absorbers cushion
every road. Individually designed springs add a new degree
of comfort. A new steering mechanism provides effortless
driving control.
New beauty without affectation is expressed in long, low-
swung classic lines. Colours are smart and in good taste.
Upholstery, of richest materials, is tailored faultlessly.
There is an elegance throughout comparable only to that
of cars which cost much more.
TOURERS.
Standard Six from . . . .
Special Six from
Advanced Six from.. . .
.. £375
.. £4BO
.. £63o*
SEDANS.
£4so* (2 door) £47o* (4 door)
£565* (2 door) £sBo* (4 door)
£62o* (2 door) £635* (4 door)
Body,
Distributors for New South ' Vales:
WILLSFORD, LTD.,
132*134 Phillip Street,
SYDNEY.
’Phones: 8W2291 (5 lines).
Distributors jor Victoria and Tasmania:
RICKARDS BROS. PTY., LTD.,
567-573 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE, Cl.
’Phone: F 3114.
Distributors for Queensland and Northern Rivers
PEELS, LTD.,
407-431 Stanley Street,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
'Phone: J 1561.
distributors for South Australia and Broken Hill:
AUTOCARS, LTD..
58-72 Flinders Street,
ADELAIDE.
'Phone: Central 5500
Distributors jor West Australia:
ERIC MADDREN MOTORS, LTD.,
996 Hay Street,
PERTH.
’Phones: 85610, 87634
TASMANIAN DEALERS:
THE SERVICE CO. OF TASMANIA, 56 Paterson Street, Launceston.
E. MEERMANN, 135 Bathurst Street, Hobart.
BENNETT & GILBERT, Best Street, Devonport.
NASH "4110
▼▼
Leads the World in Motor Car Value
(32-844)


r
g
m
GET THE 1930 HORNBY
BOOK OF TRAINS.
The new Hornby Book of
Trains tells a wonderful
story of the railway. Read
how a locomotive is driven
—liow the driver and fireman
carry out their duties —how
four British expresses have
achieved world-wide fame —•
all about the splendid range
of Hornby Trains and acces-
sories.
From any Hornby Train
dealer, price fid., or we wilt
send a copy, post free, to
every boy who sends six
penny stamps and the names
and addresses of three
chums.
PRICES OF HORNBY
TRAINS FROM 9/6
TO 140/-
E..G. Page & Co. ( Dept. V),
G.P.O. ’ Box 183kK, Sydney.
Send me the 1980 Hornby
Book of Trains. I enclose
C,d. and the names and
addresses of three chums.
Shunting in Real
Railway Style !
Every boy is fascinated when he sees real
shunting operations in progress. These
operations can be carried out in exactly
the same manner with a Hornby Railway,
for a Hornby is a real railway in miniature
--—perfectly designed, and equipped for
almost every operation employed in
modern railway practice.
There are passenger coaches, Pullman
cars, trucks, waggons and vans of the
same types as seen on the big railways.
Amongst the accessories there are stations,
tunnels, bridges, signals and level cross-
ings, all made in perfect proportion and
beautifully finished in colors.
Your boy will be proud of his Hornby
Railway when he has tested it and dis-
covered its splendid qualities.
HORNBY
TRAINS
Wholesale Agents in Australia :
E.G.PAGE & CO. (Dept. U),
52 Clarence Street, Sydney.
manufactured by meccano, ltd.,
LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND.
through doubt, anxiety, fear, despair and
ended in revolt, when the people saw how
they had been misled. Hunger altered the
whole face of things, and the soldiers, such
heroes at first, were hated towards the end
for their confiscation and control of food
and crops. “The peasants.” he says, “hated
them as they had hated the French in
1914. Actually more, for they couldn’t
shoot at them. One meant soldiers now
when one spoke of the ‘enemy.’ ”
The book deals rather freely of his
attempts as a child to discover what he
calls “the Secret” which exists between man
and woman and is the cause of life. He
was about to discover it in July, 1918 —he
was then 16 years old—after having fallen
in love with a pretty train conductress,
when she was killed in an air raid whilst
they were together in a wood. There the
book ends. In making thus a dramatic end-
ing, Glaeser proves that he is more artist
than historian, for he has sacrificed com-
pleteness to effect. Having read the book
one regrets that the historian did not tri-
umph and give us a picture of things at
least until the Armistice.
beri.in.
R. S. PANTON.
At Large —An Australian.
The blowing of the great Australian
trumpet is done in many ways, but they
all tend to the same conclusion. The Aus-
tralian is the most wonderful character on
earth, and he possesses the most wonderful
as well as the most beautiful country on
earth, its wonder being to a great extent
of his own making. And though the writers
of this trumpet music may urge the Aus-
tralian to be more self-reliant, the under-
current of the flow of language is that his’
land is unlimited security for more loans,
and that a superman like himself can’t
blunder into insolvency or any other mud-
hole.
G. D. Meudell asks (R.P. 6/11/’29) “why
is it not right to boast about what our
fathers and ourselves have, done to create
a first-class country out of sterile wilderness
in 100 years?” Well, the time is more like
141 years than 100. The continent was
then only in part a sterile wilderness, the
other part being fertile but unoccupied land,
the same as Eden is supposed to have
been before Adam and Eve and the serpent
moved in with their furniture. The area
which was sterile wilderness then is the
same still, barring perhaps the one thousand
square miles and a few odd acres which
have been put under irrigation, almost all
with loan money, and none of that is in
the region where sterility was worst. No-
body in all history ever turned a sterile
continent, even if it is the smallest of
seven continents, into first-class country,
and nobody who travels across 1300 con-
secutive miles of our desert has any cause
to believe that anybody ever will.
Australia unfortunately doesn’t own the
best silver-mine on earth, or the best golcl-
or copper-mine, or the boss kerosene-mine,
and it lacks even an A 1 brass-mine. Its
whole mineral output is only about one-
tenth that of Great Britain, though it is
between 20 and 30 times the size. And its
good regions aren’t surpassingly good, to
judge by the gross quantity and the output
per acre of its chief crops—they are just
ordinarily good. As to its scenery, that is
as superb in places as can be expected,
taking into account the scarcity of moun-
tains and waterfalls, and the crazy lack
of fresh-water lakes. Australia’s sky is a
nice color most of the time, neatly stretched
and free from wrinkles. And the cloud
effects are at times boshter.
Why shouldn’t we be proud of Australia?
Well, I am. I am proud of every inani-
mate thing about it, the desert included.
That is a sort of duty. If I met an Arab
who wasn’t ready to give three chee'rs for
his desert at any hour of the day or night
I would consider him a worm. And there
is no room for anything but contempt for
the Greenlander who won’t stand up for
his iceberg against anybody else’s iceberg,
and back it at two whales to one. But
that is assuming that he isn’t booming the
property with a view to selling it or borrow-
ing money on it. If these are his objects
he is only a take-down and a beastly estate-
agent.
I recognise, naturally, that Australia may
become a much better mineral-producing
island than it is, and that it has a reason-
able amount of fertility to go on with. And
it has immense manufacturing possibilities,
but the people give too much preference
to foreign goods as being better than their
own, and have an excessive tendency to
regard work as an unfortunate interruption
of strikes and stopwork meetings. In that
way the very best people in the world have
tried to make the very worst possible mess
of their bit of the world, and with some
measure of success.
Nothing is gained by blaming Captain
Cook. He didn’t find the place, being a
comparatively recent arrival.
JAMES EDMOND.
Self-revelation
In A Man’s Life (Nash and Grayson;
Dymocks) Arthur H. Adams, poet, sensi-
tive spirit and an artist in words, reviews
his life. He has been knocked down in the
street:—
The nurse looked at him. A man of sixty, perhaps,
with clear-cut features. His clothes were good.
Perhaps a gentleman. Some money in his pocket.
She was somewhat curious; she wondered who he
was.
“Well,” she said again to herself, “he’s gone,
poor thing!”
But he has not quite gone. In discon-
nected scenes, without form or relevance,
episodes from childhood to old age rush
through his mind. He remembers his
failures and his successes, his love affairs, his
terrors, futilities and happinesses. Life, which
has always frightened him, has beaten him
down at last. But there are compensations:
He had lived his life through ; and it was a
well-filled one. He had seen the world and its
splendors; he had travelled on the ocean; he had
met many races. He was not a sympathetic man.
He did not give himself except to his own—most
of all to his wife. They were lovers still. And he
left behind mementoes of himself, his children. They
would carry on. It is not the beginning or the
end of life that matters; it is the span between.
It would be nonsensical to pretend that
this book is not largely autobiographical.
Its artistic value, which is great, is as much
a matter of its poignant frankness as of its
restrained and beautiful style. It is that
oft-discussed but rarelv-met thing a “human
document”; one in which a writer with the
fullest powers of expression deliberately
opens the doors of his heart.
J.B.D.
A Satchel of Books
The French Revolution, by Thomas Car-
lyle (Dent). The two volumes of this edition
of the great history are so well done as to
inspire the hope that Dents will continue
the good work in a.complete uniform Carlyle.
An introduction by Belloc and numerous line
drawings and portraits in photogravure
enhance the value.
Short Stories of To-day and Yesterday.
In this admirably prepared and inexpensive
series, Harrap performs a rare service for
short-story readers. Each good-looking little
volume is made up of a dozen or more of the
selected stories of one writer, some not easily
secured outside the series. The latest inclu-
sions are the American Irvin S. Cobb ; Ernest
Bramah, of the amusing Chinese and detec-
tive stories; South African-born Neil
Lyons; and novelist, playwright and poet
of Dartmoor, Eden Phillpotts.
The Revolt of the Fishermen, by Anna
Seghers (Elkin, Mathews and Marrot).
This stark picture of a strike in a German
fishing community has the vivid, arresting
quality of a futurist painting. The character
of Hull, the strike promoter, is a curiously
convincing portrait of a social idealist. Frau
Seghers is one of the new school of German
writers, and her book won the Kleist prize,
one of the biggest literary competitions
awarded in the Fatherland.
The Flameless Fire, by Monte Holcroft
(John Long), is about Sydney by one who
knows. The adventures of Vincent Apple-
ton, from the time a fellow-worker at the
Stanley Dockyards knocks him into the.
harbor and forces him to land on Bed
Island, where he meets Coral, until the in-
evitable moment when that charming girl
“turned her face up to his, and her eyes were
starry,” are thoroughly entertaining. An
excellent story in its unpretentious way.
Sleeping Fury , by Martin Armstrong
(Gollancz; Dymocks), is an examination of
first love. To prove its frightful power the
writer makes it come after marriage to
Charlotte, a woman of high character and
the wife of a saintly clergyman whom she
loves. And then it comes with equal force
to her daughter. The charm and ancient
loveliness of English country-house life are
indicated with great skill. The many beauties
of the book are marred by the ponderous
jocosities of John Pennington. As often
as this essentially serious author tries to be
funny he is lost.
A Book of Crimes, by A. S. MacNalty
(Elkin, Mathews and Marrot). The crimes
range from the murder of a nobleman by his
valet to the destruction of a steward by a
nobleman. The writer has attempted nothing
more than to assemble the materials con-
nected with the 12 most sanguinary sensa-
tions in history, some of the details being
now presented for the first time. Hence the
work should be a mine of information to
the psycho-analysts, Edgar Wallaces and
other people for whom acts of violence have
an interest, scientific or otherwise.
Notes on English Verse Satire, Humbert
Wolfe, and Politics and Literature, G. D. 11.
Cole (Hogarth). Wolfe’s title speaks fully
for his book in these additions to the fine
“Hogarth Lectures.” He seeks the essence
of satire in an introduction, and outlines,
with examples, its varying fortunes from
Chaucer to date. He restricts himself to
verse because he prefers it to prose; certainly
he himself does better in it. With material
far less plastic Cole makes a more engaging
book, reviewing his topic in the doubD
aspect of form and content together. “Until
well on into the nineteenth century,” he
says, “academic English was usually com-
petent. Now even the politicians do not
write so badly as the professors.”
The Great Pearl Robbery, by Christmas
Humphreys (Heinemann). The story of the
robbery which in 1913 excited interest in all
parts of the world. The Mayer necklace,
insured for more than £130,000 and valued
at more than £150,000, vanished from a
registei-ed package between Paris and London,
the robbers dropping in 11 lumps of sugar
either to sweeten Mr. Mayer or to make
up weight. It was eventually picked up in
the gutter by a workman, who was doing the
rounds of some London pubs, after the prin-
cipals in the robbery had been tracked down
and lured into the police net by amateur
detectives, Scotland Yard having failed. Told
by a barrister with a sense of humor, the
story makes so engaging a book that almost
anyone who begins reading it will finish it at
one sitting.
“L.L.W.”: To John Dailey’s amusing and
significant comments on bodily cleanliness
as a sign of decadence (R.P. 13/11/’29) can
be added the fact that Charles Kingsley,
born in 1819, English of the English and
considered a very “advanced” person in his
day, lived for years in a parsonage that
contained no bathroom. In “Hypatia” the
main stream of his contempt is poured upon
Orestes, the Alexandrian prefect of the fifth
century, who, according to Kingsley, was
known to have had three warm baths in
one day.
Answers to Correspondents.
notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions lolun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unliss stamps accompany.
Soldier: No doubt; but we may not be
given time to build another A.I.F F.A.H.:
If we could stretch The B. another page or two
it would be a pleasure to print “Sorcerer”....
N. 8.8.: Merit in it; but you don’t quite do a
very difficult j0b....D0b0: Not enough for a story
there. . . .Gilbert C.‘: C/o Zora Cross, Glenbrook,
N.S.W G.M.B. : Bright little story; with a very
little more punch it would have fought in... .
Amu: The dream story has to be exceptionally well
done to overcome the reader’s nasty feeling that
he has been taken down. Yours sags in several
places... .F.D.J.: Sorry, no r00m.... Bawbee: But
it's no good blaming the banks. Public borrowing
is driving them to call in overdrafts; they know
they will have to underwrite many tens of millions
during the next 18 months. .. .H.W.R.: If you re-
read the par. you will see that “Bouragi” never
said that he worked for the Colonial Office in Fiji.
What he did say made it perfectly clear that it
wasn’t in Fiji.... Jo-jo: All but.... J.M.R.: Much
obliged. Very useful. .. .M.H.: Reps, were elected
for three years from October. But half the Senators
will have to be elected in two years or so unless
there is a double dissolution beforehand.... Fair P.:
The story is that he didn’t take it for a time but
drew it at the instance of colleagues, who found
his attitude embarrassing.... L.J.: No bid for
“Stocks”... .M.McL.: Both on the slight side....
A. : “The Road to Riverton” is winding back....
Jo B.: He fails to please... .Fanuela: “The
Prodigal” returns.... Iona: You’ve been looking at
the window models again!... .H.M.: Try reading
them aloud... .A.C.: Don’t know, but we wouldn’t
blame Kipling... .8.H.: No; but it has some merit.
. ...G.E.F.: Don’t like the ring of “The Exile”....
B. : The hospital loses its fiver... .Will S.: One
spasm of “The Dogman”:—
Up there lie stands ere they swing him in,
While the crane engine pants and pants;
And what are all we down below to him?
We’re ants, we’re ants, we’re ants.
... .W.H.8.: Too much muckrake. .. .H.J.L.: Ghastly
description of a bushfire.... S.M.W.: Market for
that kind of stuff depressed... .W.P.: Nothing for
the blue vase... .8.M.: Can’t act as foster parent
to literary twins “born on a rainy day”... .G.T.:
Have known better poker hands... . M.M.A.: “Turn
of the Tide” not yet reached “high”.... A.L.S.:
Good, but not good enough.... F.C.F.: “Derelict”
still i5....E.G.: Don’t care for the jade. . . .J.P.:
Too sketchy for us... .K.G.T.: The Sundry Show-
man was thinking about the rain that’s waited for
in drought-time. .. .L.J.G. : Can’t sight it anywhere.
. ...A.W.C. : Yes; as stated, the complete “Term”
as it appeared in serial form... .Sfax: Obviously not.
A novel is a fictitious narrative, though any novel
may be said to be autobiographical in the sense that
all writing springs from experience, mental or
physical... .0.F.: Can’t see any corner they’d fit.
. ...F.M.M.: Won’t bring that bone up again....
Carl S.: One may do. . . .Myles O’R.: But that system
is in use already.... F.C.: Thanks for your “please
don’t trouble to return; 1 have quite enough
returned as it is.” It cheered up a gloomy day.
. . . .R.LT. : Can't see that such brief comment could
be any help.... Ben G.: Lack of space beat it.
. ...8.C.: Bushranger Govett’s last ride:—
• ’Twas he and Pat Muldiggan
Gassed adown the gorges deep;
And the adjacent scenery
Since known as Govett’s Leap.
“My dash is done,” spake Govctt;
“My last wild ride is run;
Behind me ride the troopers fast,
My horse is blown and done.”
Then he pulled his horse together,
And he leapt without a wince;
Pat watched him falling, falling.
He has never seen him since.
. ...T.J.A.: Have heard worse things set to music.
. ...N.8.: You’ll have to swing the cot of your
dreams elsewhere. .. . G.H.W.: All catch the post.
.. . .I'.E.J.J.: “Off Shore Coasters.” Yo ho! And
no bottle of rum. . . .D.W.P.: Right off the mark. . . .
C.D.: Not enough life. . . .8.H.G.: More ingenious than
plausible. .. .G.L.S.: Has a story if cut to half and
properly handled... .R.W.: Writing, you say, is your
“favorite mode of self-expression.” Why not give
the tin whistle a turn?... .R.M.8.: No room for the
man who lived in four dimensions. .. .L.S.C.:
“Imagination or —what?” Probably indigestion....
J.J.McK.: Neither up to standard.... V.G.U.: Same
old “Dad”. . . .8.H.: Returned with desired prompti-
tude. .. .A.W.8.: Might do as Historical Society
paper. .. .Oslo: Training strength of the C.M.F. before
the compulsory provisions were suspended was
45,000, reserve of officers (8500) excluded....
Israelite B.: Argentina has a national militia, with
compulsory service. Military service is also obli-
gatory in Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Peru and
Venezuela.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.P.P.: Sketch a bit stiff, but you should improve.
. ...P.P.: They went back with Nightmarch....
E. : The artist is also bogged... .W.P.: They
all came out of the Ark....E.L.: A foul libel on
the ancient... .T.F.: An unspeakable pen....8.G.:
Give the poor old girl a meal. .. . W.M.: Outback
J.P. is merely offensive. ... 11. I).: Absent-minded
astronomer is dull. .. .F.A.S.: Keep on; drawing,
at least, shows promise... .A.J.P.: It would please
nobody but yourself if it were published, and the
age of miracles is past. .. . R.V.: A faint gleam of
hope for you. .. . 1.P.F.: That Alpine climber was
Hannibal’s guide. . . .P.K.B. : But we shan’t be
once bitten. .. .G.H.P.: You’re a prophet, anyway;
it is unsuitable. .. .H. 11.: Drunk is reeling back....
F. : Can’t admit those damsels. .. .L.C.R.: Among
the week's wallflowers.


dd
FAMOUS
PORT
X#
m
L :
i § » 4* j
■r
IHni
..JH
La. Jk -
Ww
4.
■m
i
Hi i
mm
?
■
■
■
is
■
.
is*
i
HI
m
Wmm
Hi
' 181111
H
q|Pg||
lllii
iSSSM " ' -«v''
I
H
■
■
BL' Jfl
■V
tHH
Hi
PH
i
■ 5 .
■PI
m
&
-
■1
■
ifttli
Sinnilßni
I
Hi a I
H
.
'*3fc
m
• .
s Mhli
Hi
Hi
i
.V. ■ :
warn
m % H
s V
m
:'S.
\.
i
s *4 ,
HI
wr
i*
5
Aove iotoietl /teffiesi


The Bulletin
Vol. 50. —No. 3599.
December 4, 1929.
THE SONG OF THE SUCCESSFUL VICTORIAN CANDIDATE.
McPherson’s right,
And Hogan’s right,
We’re all as right as right can be;
Because we’re right
The people’s right
Is just to fork out £. s. d.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
~l'i George Street, Sydney; Box 252188.
Victoria : ll)-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 2)9 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barracl; Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Regent 5793.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address- in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 J,s. ; G months, 12s. 6d.;
5 months, 7s.
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. Gd.; S months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: LOoz., Id. United Kingdom; )oz. to lOoz., Hd.;
each additional J,oz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: )oz. or part thereof,
Id. Flsev here, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PACE LITERARY ARTICLES . . 2, 5
11. M. GREEN’S “BOOK OF BEAUTY"
By Cecil Mann . . . . . . . . 2
GERMAN WAR BOOKS—
By R. S. Panton (Berlin) . . . . . . 2
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . . . 5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
FRANK ANSTEY, BANKER 8
HOW TO DO WITHOUT FOREIGN LOANS.. 8
THE PRUSSIAN AND HIS CATSPAWS—
By The Bulletin’s Special Commissioner
in Europe .. .. . . .. . . 8
THE CONFISCATION OF GOLD . . . . 8
THREATS TO THE SENATE 9
WHAT SHALL WE DO WITH OUR WOOL?.. 9
“ST. SCULLIN AND THE LIZARD”—
A cartoon by Percival .. . . . . . . 9
POLITICAL POINTS 10
POVERTY POINT 11
“ONE TOUCH OF NATURE”—
A cartoon by Percival . . . . . . . . 11
PERSONAL (with three caricatures) . . . . 13
SOCIETY (with four drawings) .. .. 14, 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..16
JEWISH OPERA 16
“STRANGE INTERLUDE” 16
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 18, 20
TEMPERANCE AND GENERAL LIFE . . 18
HUTTON’S AND FOGGITT JONES—
(United Provisions) .. .. . . .. 18
ADELAIDE ELECTRIC 18
WARBURTON FRANKI 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with five drawing ) 23, 25
Free Service Department .. 26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 32
SAVE THE COCKY CHAFF . . . . . . 28
BULK HANDLING OF WHEAT . . . . 28
MORE ABOUT STUBBLE STRAW .. . . 28
IRRIGATING THE ORCHARD 28
TOMATO WILT 32
SMOKE-OH (with three drawings) .. . . 84
PEN AND PICTURE .. 37
NEWEST TALKIES 37
SPORTING (illustrated) .. .. ...89, 41, 42
CANTERBURY RACES 39
SANDOWN PARK RACES 89
BUSINESS, ROBBERY 42
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 45
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 48
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 50
“Merry Christmas!” •• 17, 51, 52
TWO COMPLETE SHORT STORIES- -
“UNTOLD TALES OF BULLY HAYES”—
By Albert Dorrington . . . . 55, 57
“POLICE-CONSTABLE NEMESIS”—
By John Grattan . . . . . . . . 58
VERSE.—By S. Talbot Smith, M. Forrest,
Mary Gilmore . . . . . . 52, 58
Next Week.
Two Short Stories of Outstanding Merit:- -
“ANNA,” by Norman S. Morrell; and “MA’M’-
SELLE,” by Horton Brooks —the latter working out
an exceptionally clever idea.
“Feng-Shui,” Tiie Bulletin’s Oriental expert,
in a special article will sort out the present tangle
in which China and Russia are involved.
dleix/fi
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1929.
FRANK ANSTEY, BANKER.
Precisely what do Frank Anstey and the
other gentlemen want the banks to be and
do? They have talked much about the
matter lately, but always in the vaguest
terms. The banks, they say, are the masters
of the people, whereas the people ought io
be the masters of the banks. What does
that mean exactly? That “the people”
should have money when they want, it?
But why the banks’ money more than,
say, the loose change in Mr. Anstey’s
pockets? The money is the banks’ just
as much as the loose change is Mr.
Anstey’s.
True, Mr. Anstey may say that a great
part of the money with which the banks
trade doesn’t belong to them—it belongs
to depositors. But how does that affect the
case? Suppose the loose change in
Mr. Anstey’s pocket isn’t all his: suppose
he is taking care of some of it for Mr.
Theodore. Is Mr. Anstey to be any the
less careful of it on that account?
But maybe somebody has told Mr.
Anstey that for a large amount of this
money the banks are not paying depositors
anything at all—it is made up of free de-
posits. That is quite true. But the pro-
portion of this money that the banks use
with any profit is very small. They are in
the position of having to repay it on de-
mand, and if they did not keep themselves
in a position to do so the depositors would
not leave it with them. The banks don’t
seek this free money: they do seek fixed
deposits—deposits on which they are pre-
pared to pay something.
Mr. Anstey will probably reply that the
people’s banks, meaning the Savings Banks,
pay interest on deposits that are not fixed.
But the two cases are not at all alike. The
deposits in the Savings Banks are almost
wholly savings. The depositors take them
there and leave them there: they have no
intention of withdrawing them to-morrow
or the next day. If they do deposit to-day
and withdraw to-morrow or next week they
find that the money has not carried
interest: the Savings Bank rule—invariable
so far as The Bulletin knows—is to pay
interest only on the smallest amount at
credit during the month. Nor will they pay
a higher rate of interest though the deposit
may be left for a year or 10 years. Thus
the Savings Banks—the people’s banks—are
no more liberal so far as their depositors
are concerned than the trading banks are;
and they could not afford to be.
In a somewhat less expansive moment
Mr. Anstey says these banks are “conser-
vative.” And what does Mr. Anstey mean
by that? That they don’t take enough
risks with their own and their depositors’
money? Does Mr. Anstey really want
them to take risks with deposits? A bank’s
greatest service to the community is not as
a borrower but as a lender; and in finance
nothing is so disastrous as the instability of
loans. What happened in New York lately
is a case in point. Large amounts had been
lent to brokers. When, fearing that the
brokers, acting in this matter as bankers,
had not been conservative enough, de-
positors wanted their money back, the
banker-brokers had to throw the securities
on the market in order to raise the money.
The market, of course, fell, more depositors
were alarmed, more deposits were called
for, more securities had to be sacrificed to
repay them, and so the crisis proceeded.
Exactly the same thing happened in Aus-
tralia 35 years ago—to the ruin of thou-
sands of small depositors and investors
in Mr. Anstey’s own city and elsewhere.
The man, Minister or anyone else, who
encourages banks or other acceptors of
deposits to be anything but conservative
is an enemy, not only of the depositor,
large and small, but of industry. Let even
a whisper be heard that a bank is taking
chances with deposit money, and it will
find its deposits slipping from it. Once
that starts the bank must call in its
advances, which means that the borrower
must sacrifice his stock-in-trade or reduce
his wage-sheet in order to get in money and
reduce his outgoings.
Mr. Anstey and his friends have had
something to say also of the Common-
wealth Bank. They want this to be “a
people’s bank,” it seems, instead of “a
bankers’ bank.” What precisely they mean
by that also passes understanding. How
much more of a people’s bank can it be?
It has no shareholders, it is owned by the
people, the people get every penny of its
profits. Half of those profits are left in
the bank to provide working capital, the
other half go directly to reduce the public
debt. True, it is managed by a governor
and a board; but every one of them is
appointed by the people’s own Government.
It is not a bankers’ bank; not another bank
has a ha’porth of interest in it or the small-
est say in its management. There is such
an institution as “a bankers’ bank”; America
knows it as “a central reserve bank.” There
are economists who think that that is what
the Commonwealth Bank ought to be. But
it isn’t; every Australian bank keeps its
own reserves. Mr. Anstey may, however,
mean that it ought to be managed not by
bankers, but by politicians. But that would
make it not a people’s bank but a poli-
ticians’ bank; and if Mr. Anstey thinks
that depositors would leave their money in
the institution under those conditions, he
has a poorer opinion of depositors or a
better opinion of politicians than The
Bulletin has.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 7.
THE GREAT “CHRISTMAS BULLETIN.”
In consequence of the large increase in the con-
tents of the Christmas Bulletin, postal rates for
single copies will be as follows: —-
Australasia and United Kingdom (All Sea
Route) . . . . .. .. .. ltd.
Other British Possessions and U.S.A. . . .. 3d.
Foreign, other than U.S.A. . . .. od.
The postal rate for the Christmas number of the
Woman’s Mirror (100 pages for 3d.), on sale
Monday, December 9, will be: Australasia and U.K.
(All Sea Route), Id. ; Other British Possessions and
U.S.A., 2d. ; Foreign, other than U.S.A., 3d.
THE CONFISCATION OF GOLD.
Treasurer Theodore has produced his
Commonwealth Bank Amendment Bill,
which is to stave off financial disaster for
a while. His nostrum is to commandeer
all the gold coin and bullion in the hands
of private persons and institutions, in addi-
tion to that in the Commonwealth Bank,
giving notes in exchange. He isn’t likely
to complete the seizure immediately; but
to prevent the money doing a strategic
retreat in the meantime the export of gold
is to be prohibited except by the Treasurer’s
permission.
The situation wouldn’t be a bad one if
the Government had a definite plan for
making the Commonwealth’s exports equal
its overseas liabilities, instead of being 30
to 50 millions short in a single year. Then
in the interval of readjustment the com-
mandeering of gold would be no bad tem-
porary expedient. It would be vastly better
than offering ridiculous prices for ridicu-
lously short-term gold loans abroad, and
waiting for a worse crisis when the loans
fall due. But the Scullidore Cabinet shows
no sign of facing the difficulty. It appa-
rently knows as little as any of its dismal
predecessors what the difficulty really is.
By latest figures the Commonwealth Bank
held £19,951,497 in sovereigns as security
against the national note issue. The amount
has been as high as £26.269,417 within recent
years. During the last nine months
£6,000.000 of the reserve has been shipped
abroad because the Federal Treasury was
dreadfully short of the means with which
to pay interest in London and New York,
even after borrowing £10,000,000 which will
fall due for repayment almost immediately.
The joint-stock banks have about £19.000,000
in gold. Roughly speaking, there is
£31,000,000 of seizable gold if the reserve
against the note issue is cut down to what
is. considered the limit of safety. But if
£19,000,000 of extra notes are issued to pay
for commandeered sovereigns, a larger coin
reserve will be called for. Should it be
decided to let the note issue take its chance
it would be possible to export about
£41,000,000 before confiscating and melting
down jewellery and church ornaments.
Without any drastic reduction of imports
these proceedings should stave off financial
wreck for 18 months or so on the basis of
the last four years. At or before the end
of that period real long-distance loans, as
distinct from scraps of monetary accom-
modation, may resume. On the other hand
they may not resume. Theodore’s inspired
finance may prevent any return to the old
jag. Certainly, when a partial interruption
of the big flow of loans for a few months
brings an Australian Treasurer to Theo-
dore’s condition, it implies that the Austra-
lian debtor is in a bad way. Hurried sale
of the furniture is always a bad sign.
HOW TO DO WITHOUT FOREIGN
LOANS.
It was always hard to be an intelligent Aus-
tralian Freetrader, and it is difficult now
to be even an intelligible one; for the
trade situation has revolved in a big circle
in the past few years, and is standing on
what used to be its head. Thus, on a recent
Saturday, the S. M. Herald uttered the
dolorous warning on the authority of
British experts that “further shipments of
gold from Australia will be necessary to
meet the extraordinary position which has
arisen as a result of the excessive imports
into Australia.” (Imports have really be-
come a little less excessive during the last
year or so, but they look very shocking
all of a sudden because the man at the
other end is scared at the constant demand
that he should lend millions per annum to
pay himself for his own goods and sun-
dries. That unavoidable awakening is why
the Commonwealth Bank’s gold reserve has
started on the road to extinction.) The old
Freetrade paper was really pleading for
a great reduction of imports; the Protec-
tionist, does the same, only he asks that the
reduction shall be permanent, and be accom-
panied by a permanent increase of Austra-
lian manufactures. On a recent Monday
the same Herald pointed out that, if there
is a serious cutting down of imports, largely
paid for with gold which is so hard and
costly to get, the result will be disastrous
tor the Customs revenue, wherefore the
Government will be in a hole.
Unless Australia is to go down in poverty,
out-of-workness and Red-flaggism to in-
solvency, some Treasurer must, some day,
hack down imports by many millions a
year so that it will be possible to do with-
out perpetual mendicancy in overseas
pawnshops. It may be accepted that the
result would be a sensational drop in
Customs, the most imposing item of
revenue, even if duties were greatly in-
creased on such imports as remained. The
next consequence would be a sensational
deficit, which would arouse much comment
while it lasted, and lead to a howl for the
resignation of the Ministry.
But a political party which possessed the
courage and brain to make the requisite
cut in the importing trade would have no
need to turn a hair though the immediate
effect was a shortage of £10,000,000 or
more, perhaps much more, and it would
have no need to put on oppressive taxation
in a panic. If exports covered both imports
and overseas interest there would be no need
for floating external loans, and no more
fear lest this country should do a disgraceful
burst abroad. Gold would still figure
among the exports so long as this is a
gold-producing land; but it wouldn’t, be
necessary to try freaks with the accumu-
lated reserves, though some of them might
be used to pay off bits of debt. Local
embarrassments would be in a watertight
compartment by themselves, and would
remain there so long as external loans,
save for renewal purposes or in time of
war. were prohibited.
Then a really capable Treasurer could
sit down and view the prospect of a deficit
reaching to £10,000,000 or more with a dis-
passionate countenance. It would be always
possible to make some economies. It
generally is, and after a regime like that
of Finance Minister Page the matter is open
to no possible doubt. The baby bonus and
the roads grant and the superfluous Royal
Commissions are only a few of the matters
which call for attention. He could also
assure himself that the revenue from sources
other than Customs, such as excise, income-
tax and probate, would steadily expand. They
couldn’t fail to do so when Australian in-
dustry was compelled to very largely take
the place of foreign industry. Optimistic
Treasurers have been as common as wet
week-ends or disreputable co-respondents,
but the man who put the trade balance on
an honest footing would be the first with
a well-founded right to be optimistic. And
if, despite economy and commonsense, there
still remained a shortage, even a big one,
he could say that he had faith in his policy
and in the future, and float a local loan, and
put the spectre temporarily in the local
public debt.
The local debt can be treated with some
disrespect. It doesn’t involve the finding
of gold, too often borrowed', to meet interest
and sinking fund. The interest is spent
here and invested here, and pays taxes
here. The famous Bruce-Page sinking fund,
which is paper, can do good work in the
redemption of internal liabilities; but it can
do no work whatsoever as regards the ex-
ternal liabilities unless it can be turned into
gold—which has been impossible for a long
time, though the pretence has been made, by
means of the British loan swindle, that it
is done. A Minister of Finance who adds
his shortage to the Australian debt while
borrowing abroad and pursuing the old road
to ruin is the bad product of a rotten
system. One who did the same act on a
larger scale in order to tide over the early
stages of a reform movement would be
wholly commendable.
The Scullidores, or some of them, pro-
mised that they would do all their loan-
raising in the Australian market. They
said this as lightly as they promised a
prompt finish of the coal strike, and with
apparently no more sincerity. Yet reliance
on local money supplies is perfectly feasible
in the case of any Government which
reduces the bill for imports drastically
enough.
THE PRUSSIAN AND HIS CATSPAWS.
This article has been written by a
Special Commissioner of The Bulletin
after a close study of the position in
20 German centres visited during the
earlier and middle months of the pre-
sent year.
Really nice British people to-day do not
consider it sporting to remind Germany of
the bad, sad old days of war. They say
that it is not cricket. It is not, but then
neither is war. The Prussian, who is the
real and only genuine war-factor in Ger-
many, is quite willing to play cricket if
he can substitute a bomb for the ball when-
ever the game seems to be going against
him.
The British cricket-outlook seems singu-
larly futile when one weighs the plain facts.
Prussians are a people by themselves, aliens
in Europe by descent and character, and
as different, from the kindly, industrious
Germanic peoples, whom they dominate
and bully, as they themselves are different
from the subtle international Jews who lead
them by the nose.
They are essentially fighters, and brave
though bloody-minded ones at that. They
are also conspirators of considerable ability,
as Napoleon found (o his cost, and far-
sighted. Certain Prussian families for
generations past have settled younger sons
abroad—in England, France, Austria or
elsewhere, including Australia—who have
brought up their sons as ostensible citizens
of the country of their birth whilst secretly
remaining true to Prussian tradition. Many
such have died bravely enough for their
ancestral country before a firing party,
after going through a great public school
and university. Many others have doubt-
less escaped detection. It is very admir-
able from a national viewpoint, but it
argues a complete absence of the cricket
outlook. In playing with such people a
rifle is far safer than a bat.
In considering Germany in her role of
trouble-maker and war-merchant, past and
present, it is the Prussian who alone counts.
Had he not existed, had the pernicious
breed of Brandenburg robbers been cleaned
up in the Middle Ages and the Thirty
Years’ War as were so many other bandit
clans in Central Europe, there would have
been no Great War. The other Germanic
peoples are not naturally aggressive ojr
militaristic, but the Prussian has got them
under his control. They dislike him, but
they follow his lead, partly through habit,
mainly through fear. In this sense the
words of the Republic’s June protest against
the Versailles Treaty are true enough—
“the German people” did not cause the
war. But the Prussian people did.
We are apt to picture the Prussian as a
corpulent person in a tight uniform, with
a straight back to his head, a roll of fat
over his collar, and a parade rasp in his
voice. The pattern exists in plenty—except
for the uniform—and even yet, the wilder
Western specimens in the neighborhood of
the Polish Corridor are said to beat their
tenants to death occasionally. But per-
fectly good Prussians can be very suave
and well-mannered persons, as well-
groomed and far better educated than an
Englishman of similar class, masters of
several languages, and excellent exponents
of field sports. Physical courage is a
national characteristic, and amongst them
are probably the finest! military brains of
the world. It is a pity That they will nof
be friends, but friends \they are" to none,
never have been and never will be. The
Prussian sees himself 4s master of the
whole world, and master he will one
day be or die in the attempt. One does
not achieve world-mastery by cricket alone.
Since the days of Frederick, so humor-
lessly termed the Great, t,l)e Prussian has
worked steadily to bring +Ae whole of the
Germanic peoples under /his control. He


ST. SCULLIN AND THE LIZARD.
“The Prime Minister, declaring that it was necessary to make a fight against the extravagance of his predecessors, gave orders that all ‘flummery should be cut
out of the opening of Parliament. This reform produced a saving of £372.". .. “The Seullin-Theodore Budget increases the Bruce-Page Government's proposed expenditure
by £807,340.”
STRONG-MAN THEODORE: “Behold, ladies and gentlemen, St. Seullin has slain the dragon!”
is still at it, and the absorption of the
ramshackle remains of the Austrian Empire
is a mere matter of a little time. Some-
times he worked with open force, some-
times by common interest against outside
foes (with whom his aggressiveness had
often embroiled them in the first place),
later by cunning playing on that senti-
mentality which is so strong a component
of the Germanic character. He has im-
planted in their individual and collective
minds the sincere belief that the rest of
mankind is so far inferior to them in art,
music, philosophy, science and all else that
it is their GoD-given duty to uplift it, to
confer upon the benighted children of
darkness their own culture, even if they
have to kill them to do it. He reserves
the right to lead forth a united Germany in
this crusade for the betterment of humanity,
and to organise the killing.
Every good German man and woman has
a childlike trust in this Divine mission of
the Germanic race—a mission which has been
taught to them under the Bismarckian
system since earliest childhood and is still
taught. On this subject the ordinary kind,
friendly German becomes a fanatic, and
all fanatics are dangerous to an ordered
civilisation. The Prussian is not a German
by blood, and he is emphatically not a
fanatic. But with his tongue in his cheek
he devises new methods of turning the
fanaticism of the Germanic people to his
own ends.
PUYYAKA.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Threats to the Senate.
The Federal Labor Governments of 1910-
13 and 1914-16 controlled both branches of
the Legislature. That of 1929 is strong in
the House of Representatives but weak in
the Senate. Some of its members and fol-
lowers profess a boundless contempt for
the second Chamber. Minister Fenton,
referring to it at a “victory social” in Mel-
bourne, said, “I do not know of a more use-
less House in any Parliament in the world.”
“Wipe it out,” interposed the member for
Melbourne. “Yes,” replied the Minister;
“its abolition is provided for on our pro-
gramme.”
Abolition of the Senate, like suspension
of the compulsory provisions of the Defence
Act, was kept well in the background dur-
ing the election campaign. It could not
be carried without the consent of the three
small States which would have most to
lose by the disappearance of the States’
House. The procedure would commence
with the introduction of a proposed law for
the necessary alteration of the Constitution.
This, if passed by the House of Reps, and
rejected by the Senate (rejected, of course,
it would be), could be brought in again
in three months; and, if the result was still
the same, the Governor-General could then
submit it to a referendum. To become
effective the proposed law would have to
be approved by a majority of all the elec-
tors voting and a majority of the States.
If it were sought to dissolve the Senate
instead, the same preliminaries would bfe
necessary. The fate of the bill thrown out
by the Senate might in that case be decided
at a joint sitting after the election.
No Government has seriously tried to do
away with the Senate. One (Cook’s)
brought on' a double dissolution, but was
very sorry for itself afterwards.
The great weakness of the present Govern-
ment is that most of its members have never
had to seriously study any subject they
talked about. Except Theodore and Lyons
they have never been in a Cabinet; most of
them have spent all their political days in
Opposition, where their job has been purely
destructive. Apparently they think—or
some of them think—that the Constitution
can be tinkered with or even jettisoned
just as if it were a statute relating to wan-
dering goats. What they will have to leam
is that the Commonwealth consists of a
group of former self-governing colonies or
provinces, and that the Constitution is the
agreement under which they gave up their
rights in return for certain other rights and
privileges. So the Constitution is a contract
as well as a code; and that makes this airy
talk of abolishing the Senate not only
ridiculous but dangerous. Of course it can
be abolished; but it cannot be abolished
without the consent of the contracting
parties obtained in the agreed-upon manner.
Meantime Senators have their respon-
sibilities, just as much as Ministers have.
They are forbidden by the Constitution to
“amend proposed laws imposing taxation,
or proposed laws appropriating revenue or
moneys for the ordinary annual services of
the Government.” But they are empowered
to amend or reject proposed laws relating
to things like the repeal of the compulsory
provisions of the Defence Act and the re-
striction of work for wages or salaries to
a privileged class of trade-unionists. They
have as much right to alter or cast out such
measures as the Scullidores have to pro-
pose them. Twenty-nine of the present
Senators are committed to support national
military training, among other institutions
threatened by the Scullidores, and it can-
not be abolished (though it may be sus-
pended) without their consent. Australia
will expect these men to stand firm in spite
of all vaporing threats.
♦
The Queensland Railway Tragedy.
Dear Bulletin, —Australia is well fur-
nished with railway tragedies, and that of
Queensland, commented upon by Peter
Airey (27/11/’29), is outstanding.
But I submit that it is very little good
quoting the example of Canada, and bid-
ding Australia to go and do likewise and
prosper. As Mr. Airey puts the matter:—
“A Government dependent on the popular
vote cannot stand up to a really efficient
policy of railway economy and reform. But
Canada, which had a similar difficulty,
Solved it by appointing a Commissioner
practically independent of political 'ontrol,
giving him a handsome salary, and telling
him to go ahead and make the railways pay.
Last year Sir William Thornton presented
the Government with the very handsome
surplus of 10,000,000 dollars.” '
In the first place there is no prospect of
obtaining a Government which isn’t depen-
dent on the popular vote. Even though
Canada has a Senate of life nominees,
appointed by summons of the Governor-
General, its Government depends on the
popular vote. There is a lack of definite-
ness about the Commissioner being “prac-
tically” free of political control, just as
there is about being buried when one is
“practically” dead. As to putting any
public official truly beyond public control,
that may be set down as impossible. An
untrammelled commissioner would have
the right to decide for or against new lines
so that he wouldn’t be saddled with poli-
tical duds; to close hopeless-looking enter-
prises; to fix fares and freights; and to
have a very big say as regards hours, wages,
pensions and other matters. Such power
would involve control of the army, which
might lead to fuss.
Difference of circumstances must always
be taken into consideration. For years
Canada’s exports have largely exceeded its
imports, so it has had a balance with which to
meet its interest and other liabilities abroad.
Australia, on . the other, hand, sells much
less abroad than it buys, and lives on the
thin edge of financial despair, to the detri-
ment of its pants. As a result, more or less
direct, the Canadian Minister of Finance has
a reliable surplus, and when the debris of war
had been mostly cleared away he began, in
1923, to reduce the public debt. Australia
has the deficit habit badly, and has been
increasing its foreign debt at a pace which
makes a catastrophe seem imminent.
It is open to doubt if help lies wholly
in the cheap and easy device of cbpying
some other nation’s pet institution. A better
way may lie in ceasing to be a proud
exception to the common rule and to natu-
ral law by cutting imports down so that
exports will pay for them and meet all
other outside liabilities. It would probably
be a more easily-attained ambition than any
of the nostrums afloat, for it would mean
much employment, apart from loan-relief
jobs, and the Australian doesn’t absolutely
loathe employment. With no outside diffi-
culties, and with a minimum of unemployed
to furnish fuel for discontent, there would
be a new atmosphere, and even the railways
might look up a little.—Yours, etc., J. E.
4
What Shall We Do with Our Wool?
“Jumbuck” : We need an All-Australian
organisation controlled by growers that will
say to the world: “We have put certain
price limits on our wool, and we cannot
afford to sell it for less. If you will not
pay the price, we are sorry, but the wool
will remain with us.” We should ask prices
that would show us a reasonable profit
above costs of production.
Those in control would want to know
the average cost of production in Australia.
My opinion is that no one knows it to-dgy.
A Queensland Commission two or three
years ago estimated the cost in the State at
about Is. per lb. If this is correct, our clip
this season has been sold at below cost of
production. The cost in N. S. Wales, Vic.
and Tasmania would probably be higher,
because so much of the sheep country in
these States is freehold.
Such a scheme as I suggest implies the
ability to finance those growers whose wool
might be held over, or who would want
advances. A capital of £10,000,000 would
probably be needed. An industry, however,
that for several years got £60,000,000 to
£70,000,000 for one product should be able
to furnish the capital. Even in this year
of depression and drought our wool should
realise £40,000,000.
An essential is to get the support of
growers; and a first step to this is to win
the approval of the graziers’ associations.
It would also be advisable to get, early, the
support—or at least to avoid the active
antagonism—of the wool-selling brokers;
they influeiice many growers. This should
be easy. The better the price the better
their commission earnings. The Federal
Government would probably also come in.
Such an organisation could also finance
scientific research, run a “Use More Wool”
campaign, and work in with the manufac-
turers in matters of common interest.
Arrangements should be made to obtain ex-
pert information on matters of markets,
finance, economics and fashion in the wool-
consuming countries. Such informatiqji,
which our growers do not get satisfactorily,
would be of material help in fixing our
price limits.
Such an organisation would give the Aus-
tralian woolgrowers the status and influ-
ence they should have and exercise by
virtue of premier production in the world
of wool. Its success would benefit every
Australian, because we are still shoving
along on the merino’s back, although the
back is weakening.
*
' Juries in Civil Cases.
“Justicia”: Ever since Queensland’s late
Labor rulers abolished special juries, there
have been requests for - improvement of
the system in vogue, and one of the first
promises made by the Moore Government
was that reform would be instituted. De-
mocracy, at any time, is a doubtful quan-
tity, but giving anyone entitled to vote the
right to sit on a civil jury has proved some-
times a farce, at other times a tragedy.
In a recent case the jury of six, five of
them laborers, decided an intricate and
technical case against the weight of evi-
dence plus the Judge’s summing up, being
merely the playthings of a barrister who
did not hesitate to work upon their
emotions. Naturally, the case was taken
to the Full Court and the verdict reversed
—unanimously. But, relying upon the jury
verdict, a further appeal was made to the
High Court of Australia; and the Full
Court’s decision was reversed, the High
Court remarking that the jury should not
have been over-ruled on a point of fact!
The farce became obvious when the “six
lawful men” were referred to as “business
men.”
The Supreme Court Judge who had pre-
sided at the Bench during the jury trial
said, publicly, at a later date: “It may
not be an unwise thing to abolish trial by
jury in civil cases.” It is all very nice to
hear such an opinion after the battle is
over, but it is poor consolation to the
losers, whose pocket suffered to the tune
of £3OOO.


OAt-L/c
:ial • reserve
ik»\& WKIsV
RED,WHITE and BLUE
WHISKY
Gaelic Special Reserve
DEARER
BUT BETTER
ORME, KEIGWIN & CO., LTD.
269-271 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN AGENTS: JAMES HENTY & CO., 499 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: B. SEPPELT & SONS, LTD., 444 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
t O^EL/c
special ■ rese
ton. 6 Whisky
POLITICAL
POINTS
Coming to their senses at last, the leaders
of the Newcastle-Maitlahd coalminers have
signed an agreement accepting a wage reduc-
tion of nincpence a ton, and undertaking not
to place any restriction on output or dispute
the wage-payers’ right to “hire and fire.” The
owners, for their part, give up Is. 3d. a ton,
and with concessions promised by the Bavin-
shaw Government there will be a price reduc-
tion of 4s. a ton. If the Scullidores pay
the bounty offered by Bruce, the cut will
amount to ss. a ton. But, of course, the poli-
ticians’ gift to the parties will be extracted
from the public’s pocket. The various
“lodges” have to endorse the settlement; but
there is not much to fear from most of them.
“ ‘Labor in power would re-open the mines
within a fortnight.’ That was the hald, oft-
repeated pronouncement,” says the Lauor
Daily, rubbing it in. Now if they are re-
opened it will be only through the miners
giving up much more than a few pence a
ton; wherefore all that is left to them is
blighted hopes and bitter language, and fierce
threats that they will form a Labor party
of their own.
Victoria has experienced another indeci-
sive State election. Groves, the Minister of
Railways, was
beaten by a Labor
man in Dandenong,
and so was Cutli-
bertson, one of the
Hon. Ministers, in
Albert Park: on
the other hand, the
, Nationalists cap-
tur e d Hampden
from Labor and
look like wresting
Mornington from
the Country party.
There will be 29 or
30 Laborites and
29 or 30 Nat.-
Cockies, with four
Country Progres-
sives and the two
Liberals, Forrest
and Gray. It is
emphatically a case
for an elective
Ministry. Without
this commonsense
way out of the
d ifficulty, it seems
only too likely that
one weak party
Government will
follow another at
Groves, the
defeated Minister
of Railways.
intervals of a few months, as happened in
the last Parliament.
Scullin’s super-tax told against Hogan and
Co. in Victoria, and the Prime Minister did
not mend matters by issuing a clumsily-
worded eleventh-hour appeal to the Vic. elec-
tors. Incidentally, young Manifold, who is
well ahead of Labor-member Hughes in
Hampden, is a son of the Manifold who
beat Scullin for Corangamite in 1913, put-
ting him out of Federal politics for nearly
nine years.
The new Vic. House is to assemble on
December 11. One sure tip is that Peacock
will be re-elected Speaker.
A year ago the Commonwealth Bank had
£43,140,080 of coin, including nearly
£20,000,000 in London ready to meet State
and Federal interest bills and sinking-fund
charges. Now it has £25,15T,8(54, including
£(5,850,501 in London. That explains why
the scheme for seizure of the gold in banks
and other institutions and in the hands of
private persons is before Parliament.
Customs-Minister Fenton is a busy man
these days: though the revised tariff has put
some hundreds of workers back into factories
that were either closed or running short
time, there is an avalanche of requisitions
for more protection still. Ministers have
announced that they will leap like a herd of
angry elephants on any manufacturer who
uses the tariff to exploit the public ; but un-
fortunately all the exploitation doesn’t come
from the boss. The Customs Minister who
really wants to make his tariff a success
couldn’t do better than climb a housetop or
chimney or. something and cry the virtues
of piecework. It seems particularly neces-
sary just now.
Peter Loughlin.
New parties are
becoming as com-
mon in Sydney as
New Guinea min-
ing syndicates. W.
M. Hughes is try-
ing to form one,
and P. F. Lough-
lin has issued tne
prospectus of all-
ot he r. Hughes’s
show stands for no-
thing in particular
except safe seats
for Billy, Marks
and Duncan, but
among the Lougli-
lin party’s prin-
ciples is an elec-
tive State Ministry.
It is also proposed
to do away with
selection ballots,
which is equally
commendable. Asso-
ciated with Cough-
lin in the enter-
prise are an ex-
Premicr (.Waddell),
a former Common-
wealth Minister
(Gardiner), Tom
Mutch (M.L.A. for
Botany), and half a dozen former Assembly-
men; and Peter Board, sometime N.S.W.
Director of Education, is chairman.
Labor idols all have their turn, and there
is no doubt about the turn when it arrives.
Jacob Johanson, who climbed over Tom
Walsh’s prostrate remains, was informed
some time ago that people were tired of see-
ing him about, and was reduced from general
to full private. At a recent meeting of the
Seamen’s Union he was further denounced as
an unfinancial private, and declared ineligible
for a union job, even a humble one. And
old Stuart-Robertson, one of the spectacled
grandsires of the N.S.W. State Labor party,
has been declared disqualified for further
nomination over the alleged non-payment* of
Is. 6d. The old man says he paid the Is. 6d.
in the presence of witnesses, and that he has
never been behind with his dues for 20 years ;
but his age and his goggles were fatal.
The S. Aus. Labor bosses furnished a sort
of a precedent for the dishing of poor old
Stuart-Robertson. Bert Edwards, who has
been Assembly member for Adelaide for many
years, and has given generously to party
funds from his purse, not to mention hospi-
tality from his pub, was deprived of the
nomination for his safe seat because he had
forgotten to subscribe fl.
Lovekin, M.L.C., who used to own the
Perth Daily News, has suggested a small
Wcstralk.n issue of £1 premium bonds with
a currency of 30 years, half the interest to
be spent on hospitals and parks and half
used for redemption, purposes, with prizes for
lucky drawers. The Collier Government is
rather taken with the idea, but will have
to let the Loan Council decide. Theodore
is reported to be studying the premium-bond
question on his own account. A modest
Commonwealth experiment is worth trying,
if only because it might wean people from
the folly of throwing away their money
on proprietary racecourses or in s.-p. shops.
Commonwealth labor statistics for the
second and third quarters of 1929 show that
unemployment in Queensland fell from 7.6
p.c. in April-June to 6.2 p.c. in July-Septem-
ber. It is an obvious result of Moore’s sus-
pension of rural awards. During the same
period there were sharp increases in Queens-
land’s neighbor-States—lo p.c. to 12.4 pc.
in N. S. Wales and 14.1 p.c. to 17.8 p.c. in
S. Aus. The Federal man’s figures ought
to encourage the’ Bavinshaws to hurry on
with their bill to rescue the N.S.W. land
industries from “Good ole Piddo”; but there
is a hint of opposition from their own side,
and that always makes their feet cold.
Possibilities of trouble are past counting
when a party has been out of office for 13
years and has grown accustomed to promis-
ing anything for votes and never being called
upon to make a promise good. Then office,
when attained, is a mixture of salary and
horrible awakening. Prime Minister Scullin
is already reduced to saying that he is re-
sponsible for no promises save those in his
own statement of policy, though even they
were much too numerous. Still, he didn't
repudiate Theodore’s absurd guarantee to
fix up the coal problem satisfactorily inside
a fortnight, but gladly accepted all the votes
it could bring him. Now he has the thank-
less job of explaining away his principal
colleague without calling him a reckless poli-
tical adventurer or something worse.
Whatever Government is in harness in
Victoria when the new Assembly meets, will
have to shove through a bill reappointing
Cameron and the other six members of the
Aielb. Tram Board or putting others in their
places. Their term of office will expire on
Dec. 31. It looks as if the present board
will be continued for 12 months, or until
legislation dealing with permanent control
can be passed.
W. .T. Cleary’s appointment as Chief Rail-
way Commissioner of N. S. Wales is for
nine years. It is too long, just as the pre-
vious appointment of Mr. Fraser was far
too long. .One result in Mr. Fraser’s case
is that, because he retires before the term
has run its full course (he is now just on
70),, he gets £lO,OOO in a lump sum. These
appointments.for long fixed periods are bad;
and; appointments to (he highest posts in
the,Public Service without fixed periods can
be worse, ' because then the term is taken
to be for life —-official life, of course. A man
moved up to an under-secretary’s chair con-
tinues to be under-sec. to the end of the
chapter, no matter how poor a fist he may
be making of the job.
When it feecame known that a motor-ship
was loading <5OOO sheep at Sydney for export
to Soviet Russia, the Federal Labor Govern-
ment was asked to do something about it.
The result was a proclamation that after
10 o’clock on Thursday morning it would be
necessary to obtain Ministerial permission
before sheep could be exported. But so much
notice was given in the papers that the ship
and the sheep were on their way to Russia
when the fatal hour struck. Coarse-minded
persons have since asked whether the ukase
would have been as conveniently timed (for
the shippers) if the order had come from
anywhere but Moscow. All the same the
Labor people did something in 48 hours
which their predecessors only considered for
as many months.
Daniel Levy, Speaker of the N. S. Wales
Leg. Assembly, has been out of action lately
owing to ill-health. H'is absence is regretted
by the young lions of the Opposition, for Mis-
singham, his deputy, has no patience with
persistent roarers. The stern old cow-cocky
had three disorder-
ly members ejected
one night last week
and “named” half
a dozen others. It
is the only way to
mend the Assem-
bly’s unspeakable
manners. Missing-
ham should have
been given a port-
folio in 1927. He
might have saved
the Bavinshaw
Government from
being chiefly re-
markable for a
pathetic inability
to make up its
mind.
When the Maori-
1a n d railwaymen
went on strike sev-
eral years ago they
lost_ a number of
privileges and con-
cessions. They re-
turned to work on
an undertaking that
there was to be no
victimisation *o r
loss of status, but
Coates, then Min-
ister of Railways,
told them that as
Arthur Lewis, the
new Labor member
for Corio.
they had scrapped the existing agree-
ments the department would frame new rules
to suit itself. So the eight-hour day went,
holiday leave was shortened, and allowances
for extra work on public holidays were cur-
tailed. Taverner, the new Minister, has re-
stored the eight-hour day and some of the
lost privileges, but there’s still a bit of lee-
way to be made up before the service is back
on its pre-strike footing.
The managing director of a big match
concern appealed to the Tariff Board to
recommend the prohibition of match im-
ports, the same as is done with cane-sugar
imports. The report of the proceedings closed
thus: —
Mr. Boris Reymers, on behalf of Mr. D. I. Leycand,
a director of the Textile Import Co., of Moscow,
opposed the application. He said that he knew
nothing about the alleged importation of 20,000
cases of matches from Russia.
It is difficult to see how the representative
of a company which professes to import
clothing materials at Moscow' is concerned
with the match supply of Australia, but the
long nose of the Soviet pokes in everywhere.
The cost of N. S. Wales child endowment
for 1928-29 was £1,553,985, according to a
special report of the Auditor-General, and the
financial year finished with the fund
£1,467,000 in debt. A little had been paid
and a lot was owing. There were 4200 more
pensioners on the list at June, 1929, than a
year earlier, and 350 new claims were coming
in weekly. Every strike enables more people
to swear that they have descended into the
endowment-collecting category, and it is very
hard to lift them out of it when they are in.
Of late years N. S. Wales has been distin-
guished for a tendency to regard criminals
Curlewis, J.
as persecuted vic-
tims of “capital-
ist” society.
There are wel-
come signs of a
change. ,T ud g c
Curlewis has dis-
couraged the “put-
in - the - boot”
brotherhood b y
imposing a 10-
years’ sentence on
a beast who in-
dieted frightful
injuries on a
decent citizen for
trying to protect
a girl. lie has
also ended the
scandalous immu-
nity of the hit-
and-run motorist
by awarding two
years to a par-
ticularly wanton
specimen of the
breed. With a
few more such
sentences, and
the .speedy adoption and vigorous enforce-
ment of the W.A. law against consorting,
Sydney would cease to be a stamping ground
for ferocious ruffians.
The Speck Government’s failure to induce
a couple of motor-coach firms to cease trying
to ruin each other, and, • incidentally, the
State railway service between Launceston
and Burnie, has led to a drastic amendment
of the Traffic Act. It gives the traffic
authorities power to prescribe the maximum
and minimum fares chargeable by any public
vehicle carrying passengers anywhere in the
State. But Tasmania has the advantage
of being surrounded by wet and turbulent
ocean. South Aus. made a similar attempt,
and the ’bus-owners countered by making the
cheap ticket good for a trip on into Victoria.
Which raised all sorts of large Constitu-
tional questions.
The Red Republic recently decided to raise
more revenue by increasing the output of
vodka, a Government monopoly, from
4,100,000,000 to 4,600.000,000 litres. This
is equivalent to 9,000,200,000 standard
bottles, and as the Russian peasant makes
his own spirit, the proletarian of the towns
will be required to do a sturdy lot of drink-
ing. Taking 30,000,000 as the urban popu-
lation, every man, woman and child will
have to surround nearly a bottle a day.
Vodka tastes like methylated spirit and acts
like forked lightning.
During the last quarter of a century twice
as much Maoriland public money has been
spent in the North Island as in the South.
Ward’s Administration lias changed all that.
The main trunk railway connecting Christ-
church and Picton, which has hung fire for
50 years, is being completed; the Rotorua-
Taupo line in the North has been virtually
abandoned, and the North’s practical
monopoly of overseas shipping has been
challenged by subsidising the U.S.S. Co.’s
Maheno for a South Island-Mclbourne ser-
vice at £36,000 a year. The subsidy for
the Vancouver service is only £20,000, and
for the ’Frisco service £5OOO more; but the
steamers are exempt from harbor dues at
the N.I. terminals. The Maheno pays full
rates.
Coal is a nightmare to Rammy MacDonald
as well as the Scullidores. The British
Labor leader assured the coalminers, whose
industry is already run at a loss, of a seven-
hours working day and a national agreement
with the owners, and talked of a much bigger
dole. These and other election promises
have been taken so seriously that there is
risk of MacDonald’s majority dissolving into
air.
“Sol Malaprop” : Every State .Government
is worrying the flesh off its bones because
of the inroads which motor carriage is mak-
ing on railway earnings. There is also cause
to lose adipose tissue because the imported
motors use imported fuel. The State right of
interference is limited; still, is there any
armor-plated reason why the State Govern-
ments shouldn’t enact that no more licenses
shall be issued for motor vehicles, large or
small, unless they are wholly made here?
This would diminish competition till the
local industry got into full blast and yielded
tax-revenue and gave a heap of employment.
OVERWROUGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Yates recanted his outburst against the
Government over the Canberra War Memorial on
the ground that he was overwrought.”
He said some things he didn’t mean,
Or didn’t quite intend to say,
Made some remarks that might have been
Perhaps expressed some other way.
They we rein t the words he should have chose,
The pints in which he clad his thought.
The reason’s simple—starve the crows! —
The M.11.R. was overwrought!
What insults had been his to bawl,
What innuendoes he had hissed
Had mattered little, if at all,
Mouthed by an Oppositionist.
But when he loosed liis verbal flood
On those beneath his flag who’d fought,
’Twas plain as pikestaffs, clear as mud,
The orator was overwrought.
His adjectives may have annoyed,
But they forgive him his offence
Now .lie admits they were employed
In none but a Pickwickian sense.
His burning scorn he could not' hide.. ..
Still, let the outburst go for nought:
His own and not the Other Side
Was that whose merits lie decried—
Clear proof that he was overwrought!
N.s.w.
IFORD.


Poverty
Point
“ONE TOUCH OF NATURE MAKES THE WHOLE WORLD KIN.”
“G.F.R.”: Our charlady, a fervent admirer
of the late Rudolf Valentino, arrived at
work the other morning hotly indignant
against a friend who refused admiration to
the dear departed. “ ‘Not an actor’s boot-
lace,’ she says. That’s all she knows. That
man had power over anyone who had any
feelings. Why, the first time I went to see
‘The Sheik’ was the night before I went
to bed with my Winnie, and she was born
with her heart two inches out of place.”
“Mr. Cato”: Ranter stamped out the
stage-door in a towering rage. Checking his
pace, he called over his shoulder: “Give me
the sack, will you ? Huh! Well, there’s
one consolation —I’m leaving the rottenest
show it’s ever been my misfortune to be
connected with! By the Shade of Garrick,
you’re impossible—you and your whole con-
founded pack of duds!” Seeing O’Hamlet
across the street, he hastened over, and con-
fided his troubles. “Cumanavadrink,”
said O’Hamlet, sympathetically. “Been with
a rotten show, have you ?” Ranter flung
his hands aloft in a gesture of despair.
"Rotten?” he burst out. “Of all the hope-
less mobs of non-actors! Look here, old
man, I’ve ruined my throat! I’m as hoarse
as Poe’s raven. It’s as much as I can
do to croak, ‘Nevermore!’ Yes, my boy,
I’ve settled my throat with that beastly
show—-the whole bally thing depended on
me!” O’Hamlet nodded,
“Been playing lead, of course!” he observed.
“No,” replied Ranter, emphatically. “I was
the prompter!”
“Spokeshave”: When describing from be-
hind the scenes the presentation of the war
drama, “The White Chateau,” from 3LO.
The Bulletin’s Melbourne critic speculated
as to what the effect would be on listeners.
While the performance was in progress one
subscriber rang up the studio and furiously
asked what they meant by letting their
orchestra play “this modem music.” He
had put on the head-phones in the middle of
the mock bombardment.
“The Ghoul”: Owing to the increased use
of foreign tinned “music” many first-class
instrumentalists were dismissed from the
Melbourne picture theatres. They formed
the Victorian Professional Orchestra, and
have. given a series of successful concerts
to raise funds for the members who have lost
their jobs. The other day a talkie company
approached them with a request that they
should make a “synchronised” musical film!
“Santander”: Gustav Slapoffski passed his
69th yearstone in Melbourne the other day.
Originally recommended by the great Richter
as a highly competent interpreter of Wag-
ner, he came to Australia 29 years ago in
command of George Musgrove’s German
opera co. With a few shorts spells abroad,
Slap, has reina ined here ever since, and he
still stays elect and vigorous. Considerable
speed and resource w T ith the gloves made the
musician an excellent amateur pug; he
owes the contour of his old Roman nose to
a lively clout on the bridge in his youth.
His paralysed right hand was not due to
any trouble in the ring, however. It is
the result of over exercise with the fiddle-y-
-the thing he loves above all else, even his
ancient pipe.
“L.H.P.”: The old playgoer is a nuisance
to himself and everyone else. At any revivals,
such as Wilkie’s at Newtown Majestic, for
instance, he ought to be compelled to leave
his memory in the cloak-room, and not bring
it, like a wet blanket, into the auditorium.
A show should be judged on its merits, not
crushed by comparisons—-necessarily unverifi-
able —with an ideal representation which
never really occurred, but is made up of
select reminiscences from half a dozen dif-
ferent. revivals scattered over twice or thrice
as many years.
“Gaitch”: Much lias been shouted about
the hardships inflicted upon musicians by the
talkies, but musicians in “silent” houses have
done their share of causing the infliction. The
other day in a Hawkes Bay (M.L.) town I saw
the silent film “Napoleon,” in which Roget
de Lisle sings his “Marseillaise” to the Con-
vention,. with numerous throats taking up
the song pictorially. The. orchestra played
the “Hallelujah” refrain, from “Hit the
Deck.” Naturally the inevitable Frenchman
in the audience hit the roof.
“Aix-Les-Coogee” : The S. M. Herald and
S. M. Bruce, through the recent campaign,
labelled the picture theatre “magnates” as
men of vast wealth. As a matter of £ s. d.
theatre businesses don’t divvy out to any-
where near the extent of pastoral and indus-
trial interests. J. C. Williamson left
£193,000 and ITarry Rickards £135,000, but no
other Australian theatrical will has disclosed
six figures. D’Oyl.v Carte’s £240,000 and
Wyndham’s £197,000 are the only English
estates that beat our .Timmy and ’Arry. On
the other hand, we have Samuel Hordern
£2,925.924, Walter Hall £2.309,957, Tyson
and McCaughey double-millionaires. Lucas
Tooth leaving a million in his N.S.W. estate
alone, James Reading Fairfax panning out
at £588.000 and A. A. and Clive Dangar at
over £300,000 each. I won’t rub it in by
mentioning Adelaide’s hardware millionaire
Scarfe, who never went to a theatre, but
had he lived till 1928 would have seen
an actor in the family.
“8.M.8.”: The Austral Players, Sydney’s
new dramatic society, is under the auspices
of the R.C. Church, and is being run
on the same lines as similar companies in
England and Ireland. The players will make
their first appearance at the Savoy about the
middle of December in Jerome K. Jerome’s
“The Celebrity.” 0
“Up Stage”: Evidently “Caesar’s Ghost”
had not seen “Behind that Curtain” (B.
20/11/’29) , or he could not possibly, mistake
our “Ginger Mick” with the American Gil-
bert Emery. There are two Gilbert Emerys.
The one in the film is well known on the
legitimate stage in America as a distin-
guished and cultured actor.
“Imogen”: Latest among the little theatre
societies in Sydney to introduce a virgin play
instead of presenting one of the East Lynnes
that every critic knows by heart, is the
dramatic circle of the Secondary Schools
Girls Club. It is putting on a three-act
comedy, “Her Shop,” by Aimee and Philip
Stuart —a bright thing woven round a young
wife who, unknown to her husband,, buys
so largely of Paris creations that she starts
a shop to realise on her purchases. Playbox
and Repertory players Lily Bruce -and Jean
Blue are leading lights.
“Craiser”: A published yarn that Union
Theatres has arranged with the Taits for
the conversion of Melbourne Auditorium into
a talkie palace is premature. The Aud. is
only o n lease to the Taits. It is owned by
the Presbyterians, and if larger profits are
to be made out of pictures than out of
classic concerts, the worthy shepherds can
be trusted to come to a richt deceesion.
“Cauboy”: Drinkwater’s “Bird in Hand”
was still going strong after four weeks at
Melbourne Palace, a feat which, as far
as I know, has not been duplicated by
any other piece purporting to belong to the
Intellectual Drama. It illustrates that the
ordinary playgoer is more interested in the
personality of actors than in the intentions
of playwrights. It also explains why even
the worst amateur performance is usually a
truer reflection of a play than the best pro-
fessional rendering. The average pro. actor
is a confirmed exhibitionist. He regards even
the most artistically delineated character as
merely another shop window for the display
of the goods—his individuality—which it
is his business to sell. If the resultant
play succeeds he gracefully accepts the
credit. If it fails, there is always the
writer to blame.
“Blom”: The Firm, which estimates the
damage to Melbourne Majesty’s at £40,000,
is not rushing things. The fire has brought
the long-disused Comedy to the front, and; any-
way, J.C.W. has plenty, of theatres avail-
able, with the King’s at call at any time and
the Royal a convenient residence for musi-
cal comedy. There is also the Tivoli, but
its future is hazy. With its definite slip-
ping back as a vaudeville house, and its
curiously complicated control, it is a regular
headache for the Firm’s directors.
“L.H.P.”: George Shelton, fellow mem-
ber with Irene Vanhurgh of the English
company that supported John L. Toole in
Australia, has published his memoirs. “It’s
Smee” is the title, chosen in memory of
the r6le of Smee in “Peter Pan,” which
Shelton has played in nearly every London
show of Barrie’s piece. George speaks well
of these parts of the world. Dunedin (M.L.)
students he labels “the best behaved audience
in the world.”
“Floater”: Leal Douglas, of the Gregan
McMahon co., is an interesting actress
whose ability was by a negative
part in Drinkwater’s “Bird in Hand.” Leal
has played considerably abroad and once did
one of the restless twins in a production of
Shaw’s “You Never Can Tell,” in which one
of the prominents was Francis Lister, the
precise, tailored young man who was
Margaret Bannerman’s lead in “Our Betters.’
In vaudeville Leal was next turn to George
Robey on a London bill.
“Santander”: Frank Vosper, who wrote
“The Murder on the Second Floor,” shortly
to be staged by the Firm in Melbourne, has
been ■ infected by the latest Berlin mode of
showing the action in two or more rooms
simultaneously. Vosper’s effort reveals the
interiors of two apartments on the ground
and first floors with the connecting stair-
case between, and in this setting he exercises
an ingenious spoofing talent. Ernst Toller,
the Berlin producer, was responsible for this
habit of exposing the bowels of a house, a
trick which the usually original Eugene
O’Neill has followed in his latest failure,
“Dynamo.”
“Lights”: An Australian picture has just
been completed—in Germany. It is a
romance of the early Wcstralian goldfields,
and Conrad Voight, who was pushed out of
the U.S.A. by the talkies, on account of his
foreign accent, is the hero. He is cast as
a miner of German extraction, which neatly
gets over the problem of his guttural English.
“Doughboy”: Australia may yet see a
real “Showboat.” A German syndicate is
fitting out a floating theatre at Hamburg
which is first to sail for England and after-'
■wards cross the Atlantic. It is an auxiliary
schooner, and its insides are capable of seat-
ing 500 people. German opera will be per-
formed, interspersed with propaganda about
the Fatherland’s economic progress. It is
one way of getting past the ground land-
lord, at any rate.
“Cine Ma”: Add to the examples of
patriotism already mentioned in The Bul-
letin the device of a Melbourne cinema pro-
prietor. When the Australo-British quota
comes on he orders the lights up.
“O. Blin”: Maurice Moscovitch. whom
the Firm has enlisted for its New York pro-
duction of “Jew Suss,” the extraordinarily
clever tabloid of Feuqhtwanger’s novel which
Ashley Dukes put over in London, was under
contract to resume here at the beginning of
1930. Miatheson Lang played the valiant old
Hebrew in the Smoke, and the cultivated
sneer of our friend Frank Harvey was heard
in the part of the wicked Karl Alexander.
Probably Moscovitch will invest the name
part with a larger measure of Semitic per-
sonality than Lang, who must, after all,
exhibit the psychologic shortcoming of being
a Gentile, however great his histrionic equip-
ment ; but I should imagine that J.C.W. would
have to nose beyond Broadway to discover
an improvement on Harvey.
“Craiser” : At Melbourne Royal the other
night Mary Lawson, the clever little dancer
of “Hold Everything,” performed the feat
of cutting her forehead with the heel of her
shoe when making the back-kick which is
the piece de resistance of the evening. The
audience was so amazed at her performance
that it remained stunned for half a minute
Then it fairly lifted the rafters. The man-
agement was so gratified at the response
that Mary has been billed to boot an apple
off her head at a subsequent performance.
It is felt that if only Pavlova could have
been induced to do something like that her
season might have been more successful.
“Cauboy” : The propaganda pars, are be-
ginning to explode around “The Murder on
the Second Floor,” the next new Williamson
attraction. The King is stated to have seen
the comedy-drama at the Lyric, London,
where it is drawing good houses. Frank
Vosper, the author, takes the leading role
and is also responsible for the production.
For the Melbourne premiere , which will fol-
low “Brewster’s Millions” at the Comedy,
the indomitable Ada Reeve will join forces
with Leon Gordon.
“C.R.”: Touching the expansion of J.C. W.
At the same time that “Mr. Cinders” is
being performed in London and N’Yoik,
there will be a Berlin season, also under
W r illiamson auspices.


msgagmmmmm
mgi
mm
■■
■< V ‘
■
WKBKKBKIII^m
■
1
w
HW
B i
rag
m
ms
m
-:v-
*****
X
l|l ' I;
>:>
«§
■
■■■■■■
■I
A :
388888888
IS£;g
m
'■wbSßSrp
J
i
mMMmm
ill
fJ
I
-
Jgggg- :
■
B
: HH
-
■
m ■
I
FT
111
$ # i
y i
FI
!:,
1
*;•••:• • &
i
ofell
»v^v
1
'23 A TO
and better "
Crack —three more is added to the score and the
game is won. It’s the same with Country Life.
The extra three that come in your eighteen-
penny tin, make these the winning cigarettes.
And that's apart from cork tips and the perfect freshness of a
new blend of the finest Virginian tobaccos.
Also In tins of
15 for l'
and in bins of-
-50 and 100
COUNTRY LIFE
conn TIPPED VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
Made in your own country at the Garden Factory, “Raleigh Park”, by W, D- &H- C
. Wills (Australia) Ltd .


m
m
a*e
. cr< <>■'- \-n i v-
'P u<^'^r ~\^ aC +ViSlt eT ,
\oovJ'\w*l£\\2%\SfbyL
Coto% 0 ice. . s o, \ (
3»»' a S« Vfoi
Sts
cvVV^
!/j££
1
V".
#Ol
CD
Solid Gold
WRISTLET WATCHES
Dainty and Practical Gifts.
Nothing could be more certain of real
appreciation than a Christmas gift of one of
Fairfax & Roberts’ Lady’s Wristlet Watches.
The attractive designs illustrated show the
newest shapes, and are high-grade lever
movements in solid gold cases. Each watch
is guaranteed for 15 years and kept in order
free of charge (breakages excepted) for 12
months.
EXCEPTIONAL
AT
VALUE
£6/6/-
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.,
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,”
23-25 Hunter Street.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Practically every door in Hawthorn lias
opened to the knock of Billy Ilulse, who
spent two or three hours a day during the
\ ic. election campaign in a persona] can-
vass. ITulse made heaps of friends when
he was on the staff of the Railway Tourist
Bureau, and his A.N.A. and sporting inter-
ests secured a good reception for him when
he was on his rounds. .He failed to shift
Premier McPherson, but materially reduced
the Premier’s majority.
T. A. Ilartrey, who tried to capture the
Warrenheip-Grenville seat in Vic. Assembly
from Labor-leader Hogan, was a schoolboy
in Coolgardie when Hogan was a union sec-
retary in the neighborhood. His father, a
chemist and a single-taxer, stood against
J. M. Fowler for the Perth Federal electorate
in 1919 (the Labor candidate was Jack
Curtin, now M.H.R. for Fremantle), but lost
his deposit, Perth having no use for the
Henry George creed. The son, who is master
of languages and history at St. Pat.’s Col-
lege, Ballarat, did much better against
Hogan, though the latter moved the vote
of thanks to the returning-officer.
R. J. Stuart Robertson, on whose neck
the A.L.P. axe has
fallen —he has been
refused endorse-
ment for the An-
nandale (N.S.W.)
Assembly seat —
got his first share
of notoriety when
lie helped to organ-
ise the Sydney
shop - assistants
into a union. He
was also first pre-
si den t. of the
Clerks’ Union. An
Assembly seat was
his reward, and he
has been a member
for 22 years. After
showing an almost
dog-like devotion to
Lang, who made
him Health Minis-
ter, the veteran
was suspected of
wavering; and it
is always that kind
who gets the hard-
est kick.
FREDERICK
HOWARD, author
of “The Immi-
grant” and new
editor of Stead’s
Review, Mel-
bourne.
The job of dedicating the Westralian War
Memorial in Perth fell to Rabbi Freedman,
who was a padre of senior rank during the
war. The little Jewish minister was always
at the service of Diggers requiring his minis-
trations ; he consoled many a Christian as
well as many a Jew. The R.S.L. has no
more enthusiastic member.
Col. E. M. Ralph, who succeeds Brig.-
Gen. Cecil Foott as Military Commandant in
Queensland, is an Adelaide man, and was a
schoolteacher before he joined the Defence
Department in 1906. Service in France won
him the D.S.O. In 1926 he was appointed
director of equipment and ordnance stores
in the C.M.F., a job he has held until his
present appointment. He is 53.
Cecil Foott has been transferred to the
Victorian command. He is a native of
Bourke (N.S.W.), and has been sealed to
soldiering since youth ; he was
only 20 when he joined the
Queensland permanent forces
in 1896, and before that he
had been with the militia
engineers. He won a great
reputation on Gallipoli and
in France as an engineer. A
modest, unimpressive looking
person, almost invariably
what the old-time sergeant-
major used to call “untidily
dressed,” Foott gives little
outward indication of the
keen mentality and capacity
for organisation which have
specially distinguished him.
His mother was the poet
who wrote “Where the Peli-
can Builds Her Nest.”
Frank Tate, former Vic.
Director of Education, has
been made first president of
the Australian institute
which is to handle the money
(£7500 a year for 10 years)
provided by the Carnegie
Corporation, N’York, for edu-
cational research in Aus-
tralia. The institute has
been left unfettered as to the
research in which it shall
engage, but vocational guid-.
ance will be the first sub-
ject. There will be one
representative of each State
on the Australian institute
council and three co-opted,
members —Tate and Profs.
Mackie and Lovell, of Sydney.
Perth has taken a long farewell of Dr.
Athelstan Saw, surgeon, politician, Chancel-
lor of the Uni., sportsman and general good
fellow.. The doctor died in harness ; though
a Nationalist, he voted for the Labor Gov-
ernment’s Electoral Provinces Bill, provid-
ing for a redistribution of Leg. Council
seats and household suffrage (it failed of
the necessary absolute majority) only a
week or so before the end came. Born in
Perth 61 years ago, he lived there all his
life except for a sojourn at Cambridge and
St. Mary’s Hospital, London, and a couple
of years abroad with the A.I.F. He was
an honorary Minister under the late Frank
Wilson.
Four predecessors of the late W. P.
Heathershaw as Vic. Under-Sec. are still
above ground. C. A. Topp, George Morri-
son and W. A. Callaway are drawing pen-
sions, and C. S. McPherson is Public Ser-
vice-Commissioner. Akeroyd (Penal Inspec-
tor-General), Whitehead (Sec. of Immigra-
tion) and Bottoms (Sec. of Education) are
mentioned as candidates for the place the
dignified and courteous Heathershaw has
left vacant.
John Alexander Cockburn, whose busy life
has closed at 79, climbed to the top of the
political tree in S. Aus. very rapidly.
Arriving in Adelaide at 25 a newly-qualified
Scottish medico, he hung out his shingle
in the sheep country, was Mayor of James-
town before he was 30, member of Parlia-
ment at 34, and Premier at 39. Thereafter
he was in and out of Ministries till the
Agency-General engulfed him when he was
48, and Australia knew him no more.
Cockburn’s professional and philanthropical
distinctions take up half a column of “Who’s
Who”; yet it was mainly as a director of
quite non-philanthropic cos. that London had
known him for the past 25 years. He died
after an operation at King’s College, Lon-
don, where he learned his doctoring.
Captain Ned Richardson, the oldest skipper
trading on the Nor’-Westralian coast, has
had his last sight of the Indian Ocean, lie
died on the bridge of his steamer, the Min-
deroo, just as she was leaving the Geraldton
jetty northward bound. Three days before
he had given evidence before McMillan, C.J.,
in support of a claim that he was exempt
from State income-tax because he signed on
at Singapore, where there is no income-tax.
Richardson was skipper of the Paroo, now
in the Iridian service, and the Gascoyne be-
fore he took up his quarters on the Min-
deroo. He had seen the.nor’-west trade grow
from very small beginnings.
Rouchell, Upper Hunter Valley (N.S.W.),
has managed to supply both Federal and
State members for the district in which
it is situated —Gardner, M.H.R., and
Cameron, M.L.A. Yet it consists merely of
a store, a blacksmith’s shop, and a few scat-
tered farmhouses. There is not even a pub.
LLOYD DUMAS, South Aus-
tralian born, just arrived from
London to be managing
editor of Advertiser News-
papers, Ltd., Adelaide.
Signed off, after 4S years, C. W. Cliiplin,
headmaster of Ileddon Greta (N.S.W.)
school. When he joined the service peda-
gogues got £2 a month. Chiplin was a
foundation member of the Teachers’ Federa-
tion and was president of the West Maitland
district association —he was h.-m. for 16
years—when he retired.
Lancelot Stirling, president of the- S.A.
Leg. Council, has at last had to let slip his
record of continuous attendance. On Nov.
27- lie was absent for the first time since
his appointment in 1901.
H. M. Cremean’s victory over Railways
Minister Groves in Dande-
nong was the big surprise
of the Vic. election. Dande-
nong is part of the Flinders
Federal electorate, and young
Cremean stumped it in E. J.
Holloway’s interests and his
own during the Common-
wealth campaign. The
Trades Hall gave him _ a
sporting chance, but the size
of his majority (1500)
astonished everyone but the
energetic young man him-
self.
J. R. English, who was a
Labor aldermau in the last
Sydney City Council, is
dead. He was a son <>f
“Honest John” English, who
was expelled by the A.L.P.
executive of the period for
running against Paddy Mina-
han for the old Belmore
Assembly seat after he had
been nominated by the Bel-
more Labor League the
League was declared bogus.
The elder English, as a city
alderman, remained loyal to
the “movement,” but was
never forgiven ; and although
he became the first Labor
Lord Mayor of Sydney, it
was as an independent
Laborite. The son left “the
movement” in bitter anger
at the treatment of his
father, but entered the City
Council as an endorsed Labor man, and
aspired to become Lud Mayor himself.
G. 11. Jose, who gets the Anglican arch-
deaconry in Adelaide vacated by the new
Bishop of Armidale (N.S.W.), is English
born, but was a young surveyor in Victoria
when he volunteered for mission, work in
China 38 years ago. After eight years
there he went through Oxford, and then
returned to Australia, becoming rector of
various Adelaide churches. One of his sons
is a. noted cricketer; another fell at Noreuil.
Historian Arthur Jose is a brother.
Tiie Bulletin’s old contributor Talbot
Smith has retired from the president’s chair
of Adelaide Public Library. His successor
is Dr. R. S. Rogers, a noted scientist and
one of Australia’s chief authorities on
orchids.
The Vic. Nationalists have got hold of a
promising young man in F. L. Edmunds.
At short notice Edmunds stood against
Dave McGrath, now chairman of commit-
tees in the House of Reps., and made such
an impression that the October landslide
did not reach Ballarat; and he gave
McAdam a great go for the'Ballarat Assem-
bly seat. A Scotch College and Melbourne
Uni. product, Edmunds is a master of Ballarat
College. Picturesque old Philip Fysh, who
was Premier of Tas. and Postmaster-Gen-
eral of the Commonwealth, was his grand-
uncle.
Federal Minister “Texas” Green and Vic.
Opposition-leader Ned Hogan were oppo-
nents some 18 years ago in a Labor-selec-
tion ballot at Kalgoorlie. In those days
Green was a post-office clerk and Hogan a
union secretary, his employers being the
men of mixed nationalities who hewed the
fuel for Golden Mile furnaces at Kurrawang
and other sylvan resorts. The post-office
clerk won the ballot hands down.
If a plan for reorganising the Vic. Public
Works Department when Merrin leaves in
Feb. is carried out, George Kermode, chief
engineer, may be made director, Jamieson
(now chief clerk) sec., and Wood chief
architect. Merrin, who does not look the
65 that he is, proved an able, permanent
head, and there will be regret at his depar-
ture.
E. P. Eltham, who has been recommended
by Vic. Education Department to Public
Service Commissioner McPherson as the
most suitable applicant for the job of Chief
Inspector of Tech. Schools, is now president
of the Apprentice Commission. He was next
in command to Donald Clark, the retiring
Chief Inspector, before taking on the direc-
tion of training of young craftsmen. Mone-
tarily the change will be no benefit to
Eltham, who gets £9OO p.a. now.
L. C. Wilcher, this year’s S.A. nomination
for a Rhodes scholarship, has worked his
way through St. Peter’s College and the
University mainly on prizes. He will read
law at Oxford, and hopes to enter Federal
politics in the fulness of time. He is the
son of a police-constable.
Died the other day in M.L., Thomas Bell,
one of the family who essayed years ago to
pioneer the inhospitable Ivermadec Islands.
The Bells lived for 10 years on bleak Sunday
Island. Passing ships were rare, and the
hurricanes were such that the settlers had
to lie down to plant their crops. Bell was
90 at the finish. For many years he waged
a claim against the M.L. Government for
the freehold of the islands, on one of which
Von Luckner descended in his unsuccessful
search for the Wolf.
The order of Clemenceau that he should be
buried in the perpendicular was charac-
teristic of the man. “A king should die
standing, not lying down like a cow.” And
he should also lie standing after death.
In his Oxford days Reginald Charles Halse
was the fleetest runner at his college,
Brasenose, and if necessity arose he could
still make good time over the 220 —he is
only 48 and keeps fit. He was a curate at
Poplar before he became a Queensland Bush
Brother. He has been Bishop of Riverina
since August, 1925, with headquarters at
Hay,
Referring to the genesis of the Vic. wages-
board legislation which was passed at his
instance in 1896, Speacock has recalled
flic great work done by the Sweating Board
appointed by the Patterson Government in
1893, whose revelations shocked the com-
munity. Of the nine members of the board
only two survive—Dr. Maloney, M.H.R.,
and Joe Ivirton, ex-M.L.A.; the others were
A. L. Tucker, George Bennett, Joe Bosisto,
William levers, Junr. (Beg. Assembly
men), Donald Melville and A. O. Sachse
(Leg. Councillors). Tucker deserves a
monument for the way he led that board in
blazing a track for the reformer.
Though the history of Otago (M.L.)
dates from the arrival of the Seotchbyterian
settlers in 1848, Mrs. Woolsey, who died
the other da.y in Dunedin, was a resident
of the whaling settlement at AVaikouaiti
eight years before that historic event. She
climbed a hill to watch the John Wieklinl-
and the Philip Lang enter the port. Nearly
90 of the lady’s 94 years were spent in Otago.
11. G. Smith, a city councillor, has been
placed on the Melbourne Exhibition Trust.
He will be a useful member if lie takes the
same interest in the thing as his .dad, Dr.
L. L. Smith, did. For years the doc. was
chairman, and Tommy Bent, some time Pre-
mier, was a sort of first lieutenant.
“HAMER” (HAROLD MERCER), Aus-
tralia’s most prolific freelance writer:
he has just seen his 200th yarn pub-
lished, and his verse has covered acres.
A note from J. H‘. M. Abbott: —-
In my last Bulletin yarn, “Stingray Harbor,”
there are a couple of silly and inexcusable mistakes.
I’ve given Cook the rank of Lieutenant-Commander,
which didn’t exist in the navy of his time —Senior
Lieutenant corresponded to the present rank —and
I’ve made him discuss an event which did not happen
until a month or so afterwards. It is easy enough
to go wrong in these historical tales; hut I expect
you will get a note or two pointing out what a
d—d fool the author is. I send along this in
advance to - say that I quite agree.
Which shows how seriously Abbott takes his
job. and how meticulous he is about his
detail.
THEN AND NOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wo roystered down the teeming Strand,
A careless, somewhat shickered lot,
A leave crowd, fresh from No Man’s Land,
War’s horrors for a space forgot.
That night I met him in a den,
His clobber torn, his pockets skinned.
"How’s things?” I asked of Bluey then.
“They’re pretty tough,” he said and
grinned.
On Menin-road we’d suffered hell.
We licked our wounds and counted heads;
Many were gone, and more—ah, well,
We left them to the Army Meds.
I met him in a dressing-pen;
One leg was gone, his face had thinned.
“How’s things?” I asked of Bluey then.
“They’re pretty tough,” he said —and
grinned.
A dozen years since then have sped;
We met again on Poppy Day.
He offered all a flower red,
But little custom came his way.
He looked ill-fed and worn, but when
I spoke the wan face stirred like wind.
“How’s things?” I asked of Bluey then.
“They’re pretty tough,” he said— and
grinned.
N.S.W.
THE OTHER DRIFTER.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Adelaide”: One evening lately an Adel-
aide woman saw a thin curl of smoke coming
from the spire of the Anglican Cathedral by
the oval. She stirred up St. Mark’s College
next door, and the folks there took one
horrified glance at the smoke-wreatli and
rang up the fire brigade. But there was
no fire to be found; and at last a fireman
climbed a tower and disturbed a swarm of
bees, whose hovering had in the distance
looked exactly like the other thing.
“Borbonius”: When one of the Qantas
air-liners landed in Brisbane the other day,
an old shoe was dangling from the under-
carriage by a piece of white ribbon. It was
a perturbed young couple which hurried
through a grinning crowd after travelling
from far-western Chafleville convinced that
nobody would suspect them of being honey-
inooners.
TIME TO GET A MOVE ON.
MRS. MAHER: “So you’ve bought a wireless set for the children?”
MRS. CONET: “Yes, and now the darlings never go out for the evening until the
announcer says good night.”
“Kerys”: We were looking on at the
Parliamentary ceremonials at Canberra, when
the old gentleman from far-back became in-
trigued with the G.-G.’s window-pane. “Wot’s
that thing in ’is eye, Bill?” he demanded
of his son. “It’s a kind of an eyeglass that
sticks in,” said the youth vaguely. But
the old lady standing in front knew all about
it. She tapped Dad on the shoulder. “They
call ’em barnacles,” she whispered.
❖ * * *
“Mudurup” : It was one of the minor hard-
ships of the war that many men were in-
terned as enemy prisoners in Australia who
wouldn’t have fought for the Central Powers
except under the direst compulsion. In
August, 1914, there were scores of foreigners,
mostly classed as Italians or Austrians,'
working on the W.A. goldfields woodlines,
and the authorities yarded up all of the
latter they could lay hands on and sent
them to Rottnest. Actually, many of these
men were Croats and Dalmatians, from pro-
vinces bitterly hostile to the Dual Monarchy
and seeking the first opportunity to cast
off its yoke. But it was difficult, if not
impossible, to discriminate, and as such
nomads seldom carried their birth certificates
about with them it is likely that a few
Southern Slavs went into the bag along
with their hereditary enemies. Quarrels were
frequent among the internees before they
were moved on to Liverpool (N.S.W.), and
the reason wasn’t far to seek. It was said
to have been really an Italian who made the
first of those models of Billy Hughes which
afterwards became a popular article of camp
merchandise. But the best of them was an
ash-tray of later date, a copy of Low’s “Who
Said Peace?” masterpiece. Several dozens
of this tray were made, and mostly went
into the houses of German citizens who
escaped the Concentration Camp.
* $ * *
“Darken”: I was working on the North
Shore (Sydney) when a fire broke out not
far from the Gas Company’s big holder.
“I say,” asked a helper, as we set about
extinguishing it, “is there any chance of
the big bag blowing up?” “Too right,”
some joker told him, “and then you can say
‘Good-bye, North Shore bridge/ ” “’Struth,”
said the first speaker, “1 think I’ll nick
home and shift my fowls.”
* * * *
“Rivet” : By one of those coincidences that
aren’t worth explaining the American tourist
liner Malolo had hardly tied up at Circular
Quay in the shadow of the girders of the
harbor bridge when the bridge-builders made
an assault on the world’s record for building
steel into a single-span bridge, held by the
workers on N’Yarlt’s Hell Gate structure —
380 tons in a day. A gang of 80, working on
northern and southern panels, got eight huge
girders weighing 578 tons into place, between
5 a.m. and 5 p.m., thereby giving the Aus-
tralian worker the best boost he has had for
many a long day.
* * *
“Nullarbor”: For a circus and menagerie
performance to be put on in a “town” 900
miles from the nearest city, which lias about
110 inhabitants and where even a butcher,
baker or store is unknown, must be a record.
Six years ago Eronis played to a “full house”
at Cook, a barren, treeless spot on the
Trans-Australian railway. It was a Satur-
day night and the circus people, being on
the “tea-and-sugar” train, which stables at
Cook from Saturday morning till Monday
morning, turned the halt to account. Every
Cookite turned out, and the show was a real
wonder to the kiddies. Mrs. Eroni informed
me later that, including cash from the sale
of sweets, peanuts and autographed post-
cards of star performers, the receipts were
nearly £37.
* -V *
“Alwyn” : Apropos the proposed formation
of Scottish regiments and incidental restora-
tion of the kilt under the Commonwealth’s
new volunteer system. In the year 1786 the
then Second Battalion of the 42nd Regiment
(Black Watch) was detached and formed
into a separate regiment, becoming the 73rd
Highlanders. After serving in India it re-
turned home in 1808, and on its Lieut.-
Colonel, Lachlan Macquarie, being appointed
Governor of N.S.W. it came with him to the
colony. The Hindostan, man-o’-war, Capt.
John Pascoe in command, and the naval
store-ship Dromedery, Capt. Pritchard,
brought the regiment, reaching Sydney
on December 28, 1809, Macquarie being on
the Dromedery. The regiment landed 709
strong. Previous to leaving England it was
deprived of its kilts and put into trousers.
On the inauguration of the territorial sys-
tem the 73rd again became the Second Bat-
talion (Black Watch), and the kilt was re-
stored. The: first corps to wear the kilt in
Australia was the Duke of Edinburgh’s
Highland Rifle Corps, formed in 1868, of
which Capt. J. H. Watson, nowaday presi-
dent of the N.S.W. Historical Society, was
one of the original members. On the re-
organisation of the volunteer f/orces the
corps was absorbed into the Second Infantry
Regiment.
* * * *
“Shep”: The thieving of war horses
(B. 27/11/’29) wasn’t regarded as a fine
art in France until after the Armistice, when
army property of any description brought
hard cash from the Belgians. Then it
broke out to such an extent that the lengthy
list of “stolen or strayed” took up most of
the daily orders that we stood at the shun
to listen to. A Tommy crowd that parked
for one night outside our village suffered
such severe horse losses that motor-lorries
had to be requisitioned to shift their gear.
Where the nags went was the mystery.
Probably the local butchers could have told
the fate of some, but it was a very small
proportion that ever found their way back
to horse lines again.
* * * *
“Tee Essbie”: In the Mitchell Library
biographical infor-
mation about
statesmen and
bushrangers may be
found on the same
shelves, which re-
minds me of one
instance when their
lines were curious-
ly interwoven. Over
20 years ago a Syd-
ney daily published
an article headed,
“A. Link with the
Past,” containing
some reminiscences
of the octogenarian
Captain Samuel
C h a r 1 e s, M.L.C.
The ancient mari-
ner wrote: “I re-
member when I
first came out see-
ing two hoys shoot-
ing marbles on the
road. One was a
pleasant, fair-
liaired boy, tli e
other a bright,
round - headed
youngster. I acci-
dentally sen If e d
one of the marbles,
and recollect quite
well putting my
hand on the fair-
liaired boy’s head
and asking him not
to be vexed. He
look e d up and
smiled, and said it
was all right. He
grew up to be the
notorious b u s h-
ranger Frank Gar-
diner ; the other
boy was none other
than the distin-
guished statesman
William Bede Dai-
ley.” In May, 1864,
Dailey defended
Gardiner at his
trial.
“Oxmead”; The London newspaper-vendor
keeps a sharp look-out for any coin that
isn’t what it purports to be,, but I doubt if
he is more lynx-eyed and sensitive-fingered
than his brother of the craft in Sydney. I
tendered what I believed to be a threepenny
bit the other evening for a paper and though
it was growing dark the “Sun or Noose”
vendor promptly jibbed at it. His faulting
proved correct; though the coin was silver
and only a shade smaller than the “thrum,”
it turned out to be a Canadian five-cent
piece. I had accepted it unquestioningly for
the scrap of currency that figures so largely
in church collection-plates: so did the next
trader to whom I tendered it.
“Sol M.”: Conan Doyle, the Sherlock
Holmes detective novelist, may
begin to wonder if capital
punishment is so bad a thing
after all. In the rather long
ago one Oscar Slater was sen-
tenced to the usual thing on
a charge of murder, but got
off with a life term. After
about 18 years he managed to
get into touch with. Conan
Doyle, and urged him to get
to work, and Sherlock an un-
justly accused man out of his
predicament. This aroused the
ancient fire in the old novelist’s
bosom. He went back to his
trade of 36 years ago, and
spent £3OO in digging up clues
and inferences. ITe didn’t
prove Slater innocent by con-
victing the most unlikely man
in the community, but he
raised a dust of uncertainty,
and Slater was released and
heavily compensated. Then the
ungrateful client refused to pay
his deliverer’s expenses out oi
the compensation money, Quite
possibly he was guilty, as
alleged at first. Also quite
possibly many of the people
whom Sherlock saved in his
books were guilty, and many
whom he convicted were the
victims of circumstances, and
are waiting on the other side
of Jordan to see Doyle about
it. The writer who lets a
morphia-soaked private-inquiry
agent loose on the community
takes a big responsibility.
“Morita” : Steel fragments aren’t the only
worry of the optics; for anything that’s
movable I pin my faith on a strand of
human liair, a woman’s for preference. Turn
the lid upward, twist the hair into as wide
a loop as possible, moisten it, and close
the lid over it, gradually drawing the loop
across the surface of the eye. It’s as re-
liable as the tongue method and as free
from after-irritation; moreover, a man
hasn’t to be a contortionist to treat his
own optic.
* * * *
“Dick the Fossicker”: The average Asiatic
is seldom a convincing controversialist, but
I have struck one notable exception. He
was a ’Glian camel-driver, lying in the Perth
Hospital with a broken hip, and he wouldn’t
eat any dish unless assured that “cow-
meat” or “cow-fat” wasn’t in it. One day
a nurse remarked that she couldn’t under-
stand why he wouldn’t touch beef, but yet
had no objection to milk or butter. “Looky,
missy,” said the dusky patient, “did your
mother nurse you?” “Yes,” replied' the
sister, “but wliat’s that” “Missy,” in-
terrupted the other, “when you drank your
mother's milk, did you eat her?” We other
patients who overheard the argument decided
that old Djurak had won on points.
# * * $
“Mrs. Ma”: One of Melbourne’s most
ornate movie seraglios maintains a uniformed
nurse, and the lady informs me that during
the afternoons and evenings she is kept quite
busy, most of her patients being flappers
suffering from ?nal de mer or its longshore
equivalent. The theatre is well ventilated,
and she attributes the prevalence of the
complaint in about equal measure to the
HE KNEW HE WAS RIGHT.
“Pardon me, I have never seen you before. You’re a perfect
stranger.”
“There y’are, what did I tell you?—a perfect stranger! Y’ can’t
get ’em better than that, can you?”
growing habit of cocktail drinking and the
preliminary gorging at city cafes. Cooking
has become a lost art in the homes of the
modern film fanatic, so that the only square
meal the damsels get is on the night when
they go to the pitchers. The unnatural
concentration of the eyes on the screen is
the finishing touch that works the oracle.
My informant is a realist, and the only
medicine she prescribes is carbonate of soda
and the patient’s finger.
* * * *
“P.X.”: They begin to get their black
hatbands ready in Phi Hip-street, Sydney.
For weeks past the Daily Pictorial has
been feeling not very well; now the directors
of the Daily Telegraph Holding Co. have
announced that they will consult their share-
holders about “getting in more money _or
disposing of the assets,” said assets consist-
ing chiefly of shares in the Pictorial. You
need to be a ferret these days to follow the
turns and twists of “big” finance. First
there was the Daily Telegraph Co., which
ran the paper that once very seriously
threatened even the S. M. Herald. It got
into trouble; so the Sun stepped in, took
over the old paper and tuimed it into the
Pictorial. But it has gone on losing money;
and the question now is whether it is worth
saving, salvation being liable to run into a lot
of money where daily papers are concerned.
Some of these days the circulation most of
them madly pursue won’t be worth while;
but for the moment they must spend their
tens of thousands on free insurance and
shopping schemes and all sorts of stunts
to get it. And they will go on struggling to
get it until the advertiser, who really con-
trols the situation, drops to the fact that
circulation figures have become the most
misleading and useless things in the world.
* * * *
“Panurge”: A girl of my acquaintance had
a perfect strawberry birth-mark on her upper
arm, and, tiring of the curious glances which
it drew on the beaches, decided to give the
world something more decorative to stare at.
This she did by getting the rest of the plant
tattooed round the fruit. The operator, an
artist to the fingertips, offered to throw in
a snail gratis, but the subject jibbed at that.
#
“Spokeshave”: Entrepreneurs of the
legitimate stage are being steadily driven
to adopt the methods of their rivals. The
other day the Firm announced a “treasure
hunt” at St. Kilda in connection with
“Brewster’s Millions” at the Comedy. When
the whistle blew thousands of optimists of
all ages began heaving up the sand, the
results not being very sensational What
the crowd didn’t know was that most of
the “treasure” had been buried well below
high-water mark, and several days passed
before all the tin containers were recovered.
Apparently satisfied with the effect on the
box-office of this enlightened method of pub-
licity, J.C.W. next announced that Leon
Gordon, who holds a pilot’s certificate, would
play Zeus to the Danaes of Collins-street by
flying over the city and releasing a shower
of sovereigns. This is about as rational
a scheme, as that of Major Brearley, who,
when he introduced stunt flying to Perth in
1919, announced that he would let go a flock
of envelopes, one of which would contain
a cheque for a fiver. A 60-mile gale was
blowing, and the officials of Government
House became paralysed with shock when
thousands of people started clambering over
the garden walls, most of the stationery
having landed in the vice-regal holy of holies.
A private secretary remarked afterwards
that at first he thought it was the beginnings
of a Bolshevik revolution.
CALAIS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Twas in a Calais resterong
That first ’er eyes found mine.
Dark flashing eyes that made ’er song
A melody divine.
1 raised my glass. She blushed a treat;
’Er bosom rose and fell,
And later, in the silent street,
I ’ad a tale to tell.
I still recall ’er fragrance jjare,
’Er ’eavenly embrace,
The lamplight on ’er gleamin’ ’air
And on ’or filmy lace.
Within ’er flat time sped as fleet
As hours so precious do,
When came the tread of marchin’ feet....
The stalking Jacks, I knew.
Rigged in the duds old women wear,
Crouched by the stove’s red glow,
A granny in a rockin’-chair,
I watched the M.P/s go
From room to room in search o’ me, ,
In cupboard, ’neath the bed;
And ’arf my soul was filled with glee,
The other ’arf saw red!
“Alley, toot sweet!” she cried, “Begone!”
And pointed to the door;
Fierce anger in ’er dear eyes shone,
Which stabbed me to the core.
“My ’usbaud lies among the blest,
In Verdun’s bloody clay.
Mon Dieu ! To think I ’ave caressed
A skulker from the fray!”
Poor little lady of delight!
Scarce ’ad I seized me ’at
When hombs came crashing through the night
Into ’er dainty flat. .. .
Way out ’ere, in the malice,
Old wounds to ache will start,
And, when I die, ’tis “Calais”
They’ll find upon me ’cart.
S.A.
WILLIAM JAMES DIGGER.


“Wang”: The curious spectacle of an ice-
waggon suddenly bursting into flame was
witnessed in a Melbourne street the other
day. The driver and his assistant extin-
guished the blaze with half-hundredweight
blocks of their own wares, to the accompani-
ment of a lot of satirical advice from on-
lookers.
* * * *
“Chelsus”: The quaintest command I ever
heard on parade was in a military training
camp. A stout sergeant, whose knowledge
of infantry training was infinitely less than
his military zeal, had just bellowed “Change
direction right; right form.’’ The squad
duly “right formed,” and our instructor sud-
denly realised that his charges were in immi-
nent danger of colliding with a fence, hor
a moment he stared at us bewilderedly; then
10 years of driving a railway delivery waggon
helped him. “Whoa, yer blighters! Whoa.’
he roared. We whoaed.
sj: ❖ ❖ *
“Meteren”: Speaking of Diggers who
drew on their imaginations for their callings
in civil life. In our .unit was a medico,
experienced but minus a diploma, who had
nominated himself on enlistment as a navvy.
Drink had tripped him up just when he was
finishing his course ; although he refused to
face the examiners again he never slackened m
SILENCE IN THE COURT.
COUNSEL (in suit in which the gentleman in
the box is trying to upset the will ): "‘And
after you married his daughter, Mr. McHaggis cherished a grudge against you?”
THE YOUNG MAN:“Yes, but, you know, I couldn’t blame him for that.”
’SONAH: “No, no, cert’nly not! I judge from his wealth that his disposition wasn’t
for giving.”
his interest for anything new in what should
have been his profession. In the line he
was as good as an M.O. at patching up vlie
worst of wounds; out of it he was the
leadswinger’s hope, and a few of the mob
were hurried away, for fear of an epidemic,
after they had properly mastered some of the
strange symptoms he had drummed into them.
Sometimes he himself would drift away to
hospital with some outlandish complaint,
but he had always recovered sufficiently to
welcome us as we landed back after some
extra-strenuous argument with Fritz.
"Glen A” ’: An object of keen interest to
some of the Malolo tourists was a seven-
dollar note, the treasured possession of_ a
Sydney lawyer. It is dated May 17, 1777,
and signed J. Donnellan, for the Treasury.
In the American War of Independence such
currency was used to pay Washington’s
soldiers, but so far as its owner knows, this
note is the only survivor.
* * * *
“Glen A.” : M. Poncaire, the veteran bird
imitator and mimic recently at Sydney
Grand Opera House, is know to intimates
as Henry Abdy. He returned to Australia
in 1913 after many years’ absence, and
appeared in Dutch costume as Fritz Van
Liston. After the first performance he
w r as visited in his dressing-room by a mem-
ber of the audience. “Mr. Van Liston,
said the visitor, “I think I know you, but
I don’t think Van Liston is your real name.
“No,” replied the performer, “it isn’t. It s
Abdy.” Then, though they had not met
for 30 years, they knew each other. They
were brothers.
* * * w
“Mells”: “T.P.” says that the Cornish
came overseas to lead the world in gold-
digging (B. 27/11/’29). That is
true, of course, of underground
mining, in which they had special-
ised for centuries, but as prospec-
tors they never approached the
Irish. Wherever gold has been
found in Australia Irishmen were
among the track-blazers, nowhere
more notably than in Westralia,
where it might almost be said that
five out of every six men who
fastened their names on new fields
and rushes were of Hibernian ex-
traction. The Cousin Jack is a
miner by the tradition of cen-
turies, but what made Patrick
and Michael the most assiduous
and successful of gold-seekers lias
never been satisfactorily explained.
It could hardly have been in their
bones, for though Ireland was once
allegedly a gold-producing country,
it was in very dim and remote
ages. Docs the urge for adventure, s >
characteristic of the race, furnish the only
reason ?
:Jc 'A' * 5jS
“II.K.”: In the joy of being acquitted a
Sydney accused person last week shook
his barrister fervently by the hand. “You’re
a marvel; what should have I done without
you?” he gabbled. “Twelve months probably,”
said the lawyer, making the oldest joke of
the profession do one more turn.
* * * *
“Avon”: A new sort of hypnotism yarn
comes from Auckland (M.L.), and it is
inconsequential and silly enough to be true.
A man and his wife, well dressed and with
money in their possession, were found wan-
dering about the railway station at three in
the morning in a dazed and bewildered condi-
tion. A policeman concluded they were
drunk, and arrested them, but at the police-
station they were found, though incoherent,
to be sober. After a lot of questioning the
man managed to recollect that he was a
miner, and lived in Waihi with his wife and
two children. A hypnotist had put his wife
and himself under mesmeric influence, and
had also bewitched their house, with the
result that they felt impelled to go away,
after placing their children in the care of
neighbors. The rest was a blank. The pair
were sent to a mental hospital to recover.
* * * *
“Hamer”: The other day an amateur
transmitter in Punta Arenas. Terra del
Fuego, tuned in on Mascot (Sydney), and
mentioned in the course of a brief conversa-
tion that, although he wasn’t an Australian,
there were several of them in the town on
the Straits of Magellan. The transmitter
didn’t mention what the Australians were
doing there, but the man who watches
the foreign-circulation department of The
Bulletin, and keeps tab on most overseas
Australians, supplied the missing particulars.
Two little lots, it seems N have drifted that
way. One was a pastoral group (The
Bulletin’s contributor Ida Dawson was
among these Patagonians at one time) and
the other lot, Maorilanders, went on a gold
dredging or sluicing stunt.
JUST THAT DIFFERENCE.
“But my husband would get so put out if I grumbled.”
“Huh! Mine’d get put out if he grumbled.”
“P.E.” : “Mrs. Alderman- ” was the
title that found its way into the Sydney
dailies last week in connection with the
activities of the lone lady member of. a
suburban council. What’s wrong with
“Alderwoman”? The feminine member of
the police force isn’t “Miss Constable So-
and-so.”
“Padishah” : Nations, I
suppose, are entitled
to call themselves
what they choose, like
men, but some of their
vagaries are puzzling.
Russia, for instance, since
it threw out czars, has
officially ceased to be Rus-
sia and become the Soviet
Government, or just the
Soviet, although the word,
as far as I can gather,
means little more than
an elective council. Tur-
key, curiously enough,
since it discarded sultans,
has abandoned hig h-
sounding titles. Time
was when it was referred
to in international cables
as the Porte, occasionally
as the Sublime Porte, hut
nowadays it seems con-
tent to be plain Turkey.
About the only sublime
thing about the Ottoman
was his impudence in
applying such an adjec-
tive to his administration.
* :k *
“Boorabin”: The railways must have
vaved a lot of money by the practical
abolition of return tickets save for special
occasions. Years ago, when the daily pas-
senger traffic between Perth and Kalgoorlie
was at its heaviest and the reduction for a
return was substantial, there was a regular
market at both ends for way-back tickets
which the traveller didn’t need. Certain
shops with s.p. associations would readily
purchase, and the “returns” were afterwards,
peddled by furtive-looking persons just out-
side the railway-stations, The department
didn’t take much notice of the fraud till'
somebody tried to sell a not-transferable:
brief to a man hurrying to catch the express
who turned out to be the Railway Com-
missioner himself! After that the game
became perilous.
* * * *
“C.H.”: Doctors and midwives are often
asked to predict the sex of the expected
stranger, but in spite of attempts to solve
the problem from the beginning of civilisa-
tion, we are still as ignorant as ever of the
causes which determine sex. There are
numerous superstitions on the subject, but
nothing acceptable as evidence. Perhaps
the most plausible theory is that girls are
born if a mother is fat and well-fed, and
boys if she is the reverse, this being a sur-
vival of what may have been a recognition
by Nature in primitive times that plentiful
food for a tribe rendered unnecessary an
addition to the number of males, whereas
famine demanded that more cultivators and
hunters should be produced. But the rule
no longer holds good, if it ever did.
S * * *
' “M. or N.”: When a man with a very
common surname becomes distinguished in
any walk of life his Christian name is neces-
sarily stressed till it becomes part of his
label- —Lloyd George furnishes one instance
of many. How much such a double name
may come to mean to its possessor is told in
a biography of Marshall Hall, the brilliant
English pleader, who died a year or two ago.
The celebrated K.C. quarrelled with one of
the London newspaper kings, and the latter
took his revenge by ignoring, as far as
possible, cases in which the other was
engaged ; when they were too important for
that he cut out the Marshall, referring to
his enemy simply as Hall. Strange as it
may seem, this paltriness decreased the
famous advocate’s income by thousands a
year; and he had a comparatively lean time
of it until amicable relations were restored,
Hall being apparently one of the names that
must have a qualifying affix.
* * * *
“Icarus” : One effect of the rapid progress
of aviation is that bail is already harder to
get. After four or five unsuccessful applica-
tions for temporary freedom had been made
on behalf of Hatry and his colleagues, held
in connection with the big financial smash
in England, the matter was argued before
two learned Judges, to whom an expensive
K.C. pointed out that his clients had no
earthly chance of getting away from any sea-
port in the country, owing to the descrip-
tions and information circulated about them.
The Court retorted that it wasn’t necessary
to go to a seaport to leave a country nowa-
days. Similar precautions, persisted counsel,
were taken at airports, such as Croydon.
But the Judges would have none of it. A
man with sufficient money, remarked one ot
them, could depart unobtrusively nowadays
without going to a seaport or aii airport
either. That settled the application.
* * * *
“Captain Brassbound” : A demented wire-
less operator infused a little gaiety into the
dull routine of the mercantile marine the
other day, when the ether announced that
a British tramp was proceeding through the
Mediterranean loaded to the hatches with
contraband drugs, and that the afterguard
were trying to obliterate the sender of the
calls because he had plumbed their guilty
secret. It sounded wildly improbable, but
four destrovers hopped out from Malta on
the trail. The first the amazed skipper knew
of the matter was when he was boarded by
a naval party. Explanations ensued and
a search for “'Sparks” found that individual
hidden in a ventilator, from which he had
to be extracted like a whelk from its shell.
It will probably be long before the personnel
of that destroyer hears the last of its rush
to the rescue.
* * * *
“S.S.S.”: Let me give my bouquet to the
London police. Two-year-old Margaret and
I stood wavering before the steady stream
of traffic that raced past Westminster Abbey
wondering how to get home to St. George’s-
square and tea. Our distress must have
conveyed a telepathic SOS to a man in uni-
form who stood like a mountain peak in the
midst of the torrent. With one wave of
his Olympic hand lie held up the tideway of
traffic, walked to where we were stranded
on the pavement, took up Margaret in his
arms and under easy sail conducted us across
the street and put us in our ’bus. For that
space of time we two little Australians from
the back of beyond owned London.
:J: H*
“Llynnfwyyd”: Welshmen, who do not
permit themselves to be overlooked as a
rule, have recently been much disturbed at
the discovery that the land of their fathers
does not boast an official capital. Scotland
and the Isle of Man each have one, and
so has every English and Scottish county,
but the Cymri have apparently mislaid or
forgotten theirs, and the omission is to be
rectified. A claim will probably be put in
for Carnarvon, where the first Prince of
Wales was proclaimed, but Cardiff, which
is nearing the quarter-million mark in popu-
lation, is the only Welsh city listed as such
in the reference books. Runners-up are
Rhondda, Swansea and Merthyr, all in
Glamorganshire. More than half the people
of the principality are crowded into that
one corurty.
COMPENSATIONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“No one has yet given anything like a convincing
reason why a storekeeper, say, m Orbost should have
four times the voting power of a grocer m Oakleigh,
or a medical man in Bright have three times the
voting strength of a doctor in St. lvilda. Age.
Sugar he sells at Orbost,
At bleak and distant Orbost,
And shovels out the flour;
The bacon that entices
From sides he hews and slices,
At reasonable prices,
For Orbost to devour.
And if there ever enters
Envy of chaps at centres
Like residential Oakleigh,
Pleasant suburban Oakleigh,
Wild take more in a : minute
Than he does in an hour,
There’s always this reflection
To dissipate dejection :
Though these be hard and sore times,
Why should a man be jealous
Of 'get-rich-quicker fellows
When he possesses four times
(At least) their voting power!
Tom’s lamp is in St. lvilda,
In affluent St. lvilda;
Jack practises in Bright.
Each quarter sees the former
Financially warmer,
With stacks of wealthy patients
To tend from morn to night.
Contrariwise, the latter
Grows very little fatter
Repairing heart and liver
Along the Ovens River,
Yet deems it no great matter
His takings arc so slight.
“Those Melbourne docs.,” lie’ll tell you,
“Get thrice the fees I collar,
But where’s the need for dolor?
My vote has thrice the value
Of theirs when our respected
Assemblies are elected.
That keeps the balance right.”
Ho! dweller in the city,
Think not he needs your pity,
The far-away outbacker,
For all the harder yacker
He patiently endures.
He has bis compensations:
When suffrages they tally
Out in the droughty mallee
Or on the lonely stations,
His is (politically)
Worth three or four times yours!
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


ď
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND B. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOl’D.
Total Assets exceed ....... £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
/o; T n the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
the Asnociation and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
) Asnociation and no deduction maue ui wuuacs. ; . .
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost eveiy contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men i, integrity.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
♦
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Show Boat”
Criterion “Lombardi, Ltd.”
Palace “Bar Cochba”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Hold Everything”
New Comedy “Brewster’s Millions”
King's “Clowns in Clover”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt's Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
The State weather fakir, having heard of
the Bramleyites’ intention of appearing at
Brisbane Royal in “A Pair of Silk Stock-
ings,” obliged by sending the thermometer
up to 106° and the usual crowd to the ice-
cream shows. The company takes an early
revenge—the next offering is “The Cheerful
Liar.”
rf
On top of Sydney State Theatre on
Saturday night Prime Minister Scullin, on
behalf of Union Theatres, switched on Aus-
tralia’s first air beacon. It stands at once
a fine gift to the nation and a splendid adver-
tisement. As an entertainer, the P.M. is not
impressive. He has none of the sartorial
magnificence of Mr. Bruce nor the monstrous
dignity of Mr. Hughes. Even Dr. Page, who
has nothing more than a habit of grinning
at his own jokes to commend him as a spec-
tacle, is much more memorable. Mr. Scullin’s
chief characteristic is a considerable absence
of humor. He weighs his words, lards them
with lead, burred “r’s” and sonorous booms,
and ejects them from his system by shaking
his head like a Punch suddenly converted to
political rectitude. He says the obvious
and it is at once more obvious than ever.
Pie is ; so clearly an honest man that he
must be relieved at being a Prime Minister
and not a politician any longer.
He enunciated 17 tons of guaranteed plati-
tude and switched on the light. A plagiar-
ism of the Eiffel Tower sprang into rose
fire, and from its peak a searchlight reached
out an invisible arm and spread a visible
hand, upon the clouds, feeling its way round
the circle of the heavens as if seeking for the
way in. A Major-General of the State
Theatre Dismounted Postilions stripped away
a screen of giant flags. Behold, tables spread
with squat bottles of Red, White and Blue
whisky, tall bottles of lager. It looked regal
and romantic with the rose glow from the
tower pouring down over it. Then this
ROWENA RONALD, with the bright party in “Lombardi, Ltd.,"
at Sydney Criterion.
Showman left. He had to do a theatre in a
basement in Oxford-street. Pleasure before
business.
* •¥ #
The lot of a musically-minded Gentile who
undertakes the job of assessing the artistic
value of a “Jewish opera” is unenviable.
The music prized and revered by Jewry as
Jewry is not that of the composers of the
race whose work belongs to the world (there
is a long and glorious list of them). It
is the music of the synagogue, of a genre
outlandish to unaccustomed ears.
Chief and most treasured among these
long impassioned recitatives is “Kol Nidrei,”
a sort of “Kyrie Eleison,” to use a parallel
from another faith. “Kol Nidrei” has been
set by as many composers as the “Kyrie,”
and one of the most famous of the settings
gives the name and supplies the motif of
the play staged by Jacob Strunin and his
company at Sydney’s Palace on Saturday
night. It isn’t an opera by any rule or
calliper. An historical drama with intro-
duced songs, recitatives and choruses is as
near as one can describe the thing. The
Yiddish tongue is used by the actors through-
out, and an audience most of the members
of which seemed to understand it listened
with relish that fruited into chuckles now
and then. The plot is simple and strong and
very, very old. Paulis the Jew, an apos-
tate become High Inquisitor of Spain, perse-
cutes his daughter’s lover Bartela, leader
of the Jews and a favorite at Court, involves
both Bartela and his daughter Elvira in the
messy sort of doom provided by the Inquisi-
tor, and suicides through remorse. As offset
to all this gloom there is a low-comedy ser-
vant and soubrette, and some ditties that
are evidently of what, in the Jewish idiom,
is a lightsome or even rakish character.
As to the music, it’s like fish boiled in oil —
you have to acquire a taste, and if you
haven’t the taste your opinion isn’t worth
a motzo. The singers have well-trained
voices of good calibre, and Jacob Strunin as
Paulis, Madame Bertha Reitz as Elvira, and
a very accomplished tenor, Jovan Massonoff,
as Bartela, Elvira’s lover, play their parts
with force and dignity. Alfred Bourne con-
ducts the orchestra, and the choruses are
supplied by members of the Sydney Jewish
Club, not hitherto suspected of harboring
SO' much musical talent.
_¥ * *
Eugene O’Neill’s “Strange Interlude,”
which had its Australian premiere at Syd-
ney Playbox on Saturday night, is all
intellect. There is no action in the accepted
sense. In it O’Neill has taken the stage
whisper, the aside, and developed it from a
theatrical convenience into a dominant ele-
ment, as important as dialogue ordinarily
is; here more important. The result is extra-
ordinary. Three or four players separated
by a few feet on the stage uttering their
thoughts aloud, and the audience can accept
them as tlieughts. The old stage whisper
never managed that credibility. It was
always a creak in the joint of art.
The single impression gathered from a
presentation of “Strange Interlude” is not
one of so many
men and women in-
terpreting a play,
but of their brains
doing so. Their
bodies, despite . all
the use' that is
made of Body in
the theme, are
absent, as off-stage
as the half-wit
aunt and the baby
who never appear.
At the first curtain-
rise the novelist
Charles Marsden
walks into the
library of Profes-
sor Leeds and in a
long thought-mono-
logue begins the dis-
sociation of brain
and body. What-
ever interest may
be retained in the
physical after that
is banished when
the Professor en-
ters, and, between
snatches of dia-
logue with Mars-
den also indulges
in thought-mono-
logue. It is through
the thought-mono-
logue and not the
dialogue that the
audience comes to
grips with' the be-
ginnings of the
plot. That mono-
logue remains in
the ascendant
throughout, until
at the end it has
complete charge,
and the four per-
sons on the stage
are four visible
brains; but with
the important difference that each lives
and has character. It is an entirely
new kind of puppet; an entity, working of
its own volition, without strings, and with
instrinsic character.
Mattie Doyle, whom this Showman had to
call wooden in the last Playbox offering,
acted splendidly in the play’s fullest part.
Sue is the Professor’s daughter Nina, who,
her lover killed flying at the war, becomes
obsessed with the idea that she ought to
have given herself physically to • him before
lie went, and seeks relief from her neurosis
by giving herself freely to sundry others.
After that, marriage to a young worshipper
of her old lover and herself. Then the hope
of escape through the healthy child she
believes she is going to bear shattered by her
young husband’s mother, who insists that
the child must not be born because insanity
has flourished on the prospective father’s
family tree. Agreement on her part; the
inevitable operation. Then—more strongly
than ever obsessed with the idea of doing
what she and her
first lover should
have done —consul-
tation with her
young doctor, her
husband’s friend;
and the prescrip-
tion, a baby. Seduc-
tion of the doctor,
who, to escape
from what he has
done and what it
has done to him,
goes abroad. The
child duly born in
his absence. The
young husband
happy to believe
himself the father.
Then an over-
whelming love be-
tween the adulter-
ers which returns
them together
again. Conclusion
(of the Playbox
version) : Marsden,
the novelist, who
also has been a
lover, awake to
what has happened
but content to act
a parental rOle.
The husband happy
as Larry. The
doctor satisfied to
be a platonic lover.
The wife content
to have them all
just so.
It is not O’Neill’s
conclusion, and it
is unsatisfactory.
It is a New-Year-
resolution situation
—all right as long
as it can last.
Could it last? If
it could not,
and humanly it
couldn’t, it all degenerates into a common
piece of moral degradation, with the sordidity
of divorce as the ultimate resource. Still,
even as far as it goes, it is a great play and
Miss Doyle’s is a rich contribution. Others —-
Charles Gray, the professor; Geoff Lem-
priere, the doctor; Robin Copp, the husband;
Madeline Howell, his mother —are well cast.
The play’s outstanding success, however, is
Frank Cayley, as Marsden, The others pass
muster, but they lack his intensity, and
intensity is this play’s prime need. In places
—depressingly in the fifth act—it drags.
Indeed, quite often when Cayley is absent it
does so. He has done what actors hardly
ever do —mastered a part.
A difficulty with the play is the necessity
for many to leave before the end to avoid
the added expense of a taxi home, and
those who miss the last act must take away
a poor opinion of the piece. The industrious
Macdougall would be wise to carry his
commendable originality a bit further and
start the show at seven o’clock. Why the
devil shouldn’t a show start at seven o’clock?
* X *
The Bulletin will be very much surprised
if the entire Melbourne press does not deplore
the appearance of Mo in “Clowns in
Clover” at the King’s as a regrettable lower-
ing of the standards of the theatre. Never-
theless, Mo’s natural vulgarity is more toler-
able than the vulgarity of many a more high-
toned actor who deliberately plays down to
the gallery. Mb’s vulgarity is as much a part
of the man as the vulgarity of a cow, a
horse or an orang-utan. Therefore one cau
view the gentleman’s manoeuvres with as
much detachment as one can study the evolu-
tions of a lot of innocent animalculse under a
microscope. He is ably aided and abetted by
that clever little mime, Sadie Gale. An
important item on a bill that bristles with
sensations is the impersonations of Ann
Penn, a lady new to Yarraville. The only
trouble about them is that they are carica-
tures of caricatures. One can only give them
the meed of applause that goes to clever imita-
tions. An unusual feature of this lavish musi-
cal extravaganza is the amount of attractive
melody' imbedded in it. As a good deal of the
singing of it is entrusted to Mary Gannon,
the fact may escape general notice. “Clowns
in Clover” is a tiptop contribution to a
Christmas season which, for almost the first
time in history, hasn’t got a Williamson
panto, to enliven it.
* * ¥
“A Message from Mars.” Gregan
McMahon’s latest boon to the local intelli-
gentsia at Melbourne Palace, is not the work
of art which the present writer was
led to expect. Revivals seldom are. The
radiogram from the red planet is not couched
in code or cipher, but in plain language so
that anyone who doesn’t run may read De-
fore more than a quarter of the evening is
over. So that nobody shall be in doubt as
to even the less obscure item in the piece,
Mr. McMahon arranges a second _ curtain
after the first act which clearly indicates,
that the subsequent proceedings are in the
nature of a vision. However convincing to
ELSIE KEENE, new English artist in “Hold Everything” at
Melbourne Royal.
an earlier generation Horace Parker may
have been, it is impossible for a modern
audience to accept the thesis that a cold,
unfeeling fish can be converted into a warm-
hearted human being by a dream in whic-ii
he sees himself deprived of his wealth and
prospective wife. The piece bears a close
resemblance logically to that other bit of
unreality, Dickens’s “Christmas Carol.” The
only difference is that whereas Scrooge is
converted by fear of hell, Horace suffers
a complete change of temperament when he
learns the moral consequences of his selfish-
ness.
The performance is worth while mainly
for the, opportunity it gives McMahon for
portraying the monumental self-esteem of
Parker, the subsequent conversion being, as
stated, unconvincing. As usual, he adds
some low-comedy touches which contradict
the tone of the general picture; but as his
audience likes it, that is Mr. McMahon’s
business. Kay Souper provides the Mes-
senger with six.foot seven-odd of impressive
humanity and the sepulchral utterance that
is de rigueur in stage-ghost circles. A pretty
bit of sensitive acting is provided by Helen
Saintsbury, a new addition to the co., as
Minnie Templar. Paul Plunket suggests a
lover who learnt the art of amorous speechi-
fying at Rotarian luncheons. Beatrice Day
is comfortable in the clothes of Aunt Martha.
On Saturday night some of the snow that
drifted into Mr. Parker’s sitting-room failed
to melt before the falling of the curtain,
which just shows how cold it can be in
Melbourne.
Adelaide shows are brightening up with
the coming of summer. Paul Warton is just
starting a Frivolities’ team in the open air
below Nortli-terrace. Leo Darnton, really
powerful, and Lilian Crisp, from Westralia.
dainty and clever, have held large audiences
at the Royal in “The Desert Song” and
“Maid of the Mountains.” At the Prince of
Wales an enthusiastic amateur crowd has
for a full week challenged the ghosts of
Lauri, Palotta and Brownlow in a “Floro-
dora” revival.
* * *
This page is the appropriate place to men-
tion that Hugh McCrae will let his voice
loose at Sydney Savoy on December 12 and
13. He is billed to lecture, but anyone who
knows McCrae knows that “lecture” is a
poor description of the sort of entertainment
he provides. H’e will talk about Australian
literary and other lights and where they
shone, including some hectic interiors.


ew set of ‘Dunlop’- fitted now_
will carry you ‘well-into 1931
So durable and dependable
are the latest tyres by
DUNLOP
that really exceptional mileage is assured to all
motorists who fit these high quality covers and tubes.
Even under heavy driving conditions Dunlop mileage
is so outstanding that these sturdy tyres can be relied
on for a particularly long period of pleasing service.
Only by actual road test can you possibly appreciate
what great service Dunlop tyres ensure .... Fit a set
and note what trouble-free long mileage they give.
—Your Garage can supply 1
v.
V W'
( Ml
w
if", i
SJE
fll
i
g
/
“3
>-
<r
ST*
2
o
or*o
0)
«sr
or
<r
o>
-r
o
C 75
DUNLOP TYRBSSTOCKE
/
7 5
o
*5
sT<7>
Pt
05
o
/
o>
0V)N(
$3
W'
Owning
a Car
brings
Health
and
Happiness
into the
Home!
A DUNLOP TUBE IN A DUNLOP COVER
MAKES THE PERFECT TYRE


R°NE°
BUSINESS
EFFICIENCY
METHODS.
British Manufaotuih
STEEL CABINETS.
FILING SYSTEMS.
VISIBLE CARD
RECORDS.
RONEOTYPE
DUPLICATORS
ADDRESSING
MACHINES.
ON EXHIBITION AT
?1 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY.
dd
64 MARKET STREET, MELBOURNE.
43 CREEK STREET, BRISBANE.
GAWLER PLACE, ADELAIDE.
107 MURRAY STREET, PERTH.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
STRENGTH AND SECURITY
are what a prudent man looks for in any Investment in which he may place his
money. How much more necessary is it to secure these safeguards when selecting
your Executor!
This can be done by appointing
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
as its Reserves and Uncalled Capital provide a degree of Security far beyond the
power of the private Executor.
Write or call for free explanatory booklet.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Managing Director: R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
Manager: H. V. DOUGLASS.
d
Are You Paying Too
Much for Success?
STOP robbing yourself of your
health and mental vitality in
a helpless, hopeless struggle
against Detail. You can —if you
will—for the courses of the
Alexander . Hamilton Institute
(U.K. and U.S.A.) are expressly
designed to increase from the very
outset your business effectiveness,
and thus help you to enjoy that
well-rounded life which should be
yours by right.
Write to-day for the 96-p.p.
booklet “Forging Ahead in Busi-
ness,” which gives full particulars
of both courses —MODERN BUSI-
NESS AND MODERN MER-
CHANDISING.
Alexander Hamilton Institute
Courses Controlled for Australia by
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON.
MELBOURNE : 38 Bank House, Bank Plaee,
410-412 Collins Street.
SYDNEY: 38 Barrack House, 16 Barrack
Street.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The T. and G.
These are the initials by which the Aus-
tralasian Temperance and General Mutual
Life Assurance Society, Ltd., is known
throughout Australia and Maoriland, where
it has been writing policies for the last 53
years:—
OuDiNAiir Life Department.
Added to Total
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1919 .. 405,959 69,792 163,669 172,498 1,834,295
1920 .. 467,483 82,479 134,572 250,432 2.084,727
1921 .. 556,669 102,501 162,066 292,102 2,376,829
1922 .. 651,114 119,104 176,085 355,925 2,732,764
1923 . . 747,049 130,123 205,018 411,908 3,144,662
1924 .. 845,875 148,245 232,516 465,114 3,609,776
Transferred from Industrial, £ 19,473.. 3,629,249
1925 .. 955,169 153,991 278,385 522,793 4,152,042
1926 1,067,219 169,010 335,016 563,193 4,715,235
1927 1,200,326 189,528 340,957 669,841 5,385,076
1928 1,330,995 199,420 409,567 722,008 6.107,084
1929 1,480,462 240,043 530,073 710,346 6,817,430
Industrial Life Department.
Added to Total
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
£ £> £> ■£ £
1919 .. 626,610 213,718 142,307 270,585 1,500,354
1920 .. 733,004 252,254 135,509 345,241 1,845,595
1921 .. 865,852 303,240 141,291 421,321 2,266,916
1922 .. 991,568 343,108 159,501 488,959 2,755,876
1923 .. 1,141,979 386,456 212,235 543,288 3,299,163
1924 .. 1,298,264 437,360 263,094 607,810 3,906,973
Transferred to Ordinary, £19,473 -. 3,887,500
1925 .. 1,460,029 479,447 349,723 030,859 4,518,359
1926 . . 1,633,937 521,034 443,510 669,393 5,187,762
1927 .. 1,823,352 583,528 544,947 694,877 5,882,629
1928 .. 1,981,156 612,063 041,205 727,888 6,610.517
1929 .. 2,143,427 662,369 799,008 682,050 7,292,567
Income bounds along, lengthening its stride
year by year, and that, of course, is as it
should be. Vigorous policy-writing, growth
in population, expansion of funds and de-
crease in the purchasing power of money
have all helped the figures of recent years.
For the 12 months to Sept. 30 the society’s
total gatherings were £3,623,889, or
£311,738 more than in the previous year.
Of the increase, £210,612 came from pre-
miums (£2,839,182) and £101,126 from
interest and rents (£784,707). So in the
last decade the management lias more than
three times bettered the income which
resulted from 43 years of previous effort.
And what is more, the development has
been healthy, thus ensuring steadily increas-
ing benefits to policy-holders. Last year’s
experience, however, was not quite so fav-
orable as usual. After paying, all exes.
(£902,412) and claims (£1,329,081) the
amount available to swell investments and
returns therefrom was £1,392,396. That
was £57,500 less than was added to funds
in the previous year. The contraction was
due mainly to heavier claims. In the
Ordinary department they were 47.7 p.e. of
the net premiums as against 40.8 p.c. in the
year before, and 46 p.c. as against 39.4 p.c.
in the Industrial branch. Nevertheless, the
assurance funds had mounted to £14,109,997
at Sept. 30. On that date the actuary
figured liabilities under policies at
£13,557,512. Thus the surplus available
for distribution was £552,485, which was
£88,554 better than the previous year’s.
Of the amount to be divided up £50,000
was earmarked to provide against variations
in the rate of mortality and other contin-
gencies. All but £1405 of the balance is to
be scattered amongst policy-holders as rever-
sionary bonuses (additions to the sum
assured) —£342,296 in the Ordinary and
£158,783 in the Industrial department—on
the same scale as in the previous year.
Bonus allotments in the Ordinary branch
were then equal to 30.2 p.c. of the net pre-
miums compared with 28.5 p.c. in the year
before that.
New business figures in the Ordinary
branch have moved in this way :
1911. 1928. 1929.
Policies .. .. 9,665 21,870 22,626
Amount . . .. 995,987 5,304,552 5,954,655
New premiums .. 29,941 180,187 203,732
Average policy . . 103 242 263
Average premium p.c. £3/17/10 £3/16/10 £3/16/3
Since £lB6 to-day is worth no more than
£lOO was in 1911, more than half the in-
crease in the average amount per policy
is offset by the decrease in the purchasing
power of money. The rest of the increase
in the amount of cover might be accepted
as evidence that more people, and especially
those with others dependent upon them,
have realised that a life policy should be
a first investment. The small shrinkage in
the average premium per cent, over the
last 18 years probably means that a trifle
larger proportion of whole-of-life business
is being written these days.
An all-round increase in exes., including
a much bigger taxation bill, brings a sharp
rise in cost ratios. Assuming that new busi-
ness is 10 times more expensive than re-
newals, then the cost of putting, last year’s
new policies on the books was 81.7 p.c. com-
pared with 75.9 p.c. and 76.4 p.c. in the
two preceding years. But on the same basis
it is costing some of the young post-war
offices as much as 200 p.c. and more to
write their policies.
Industrial business now figures very pro-
minently in the T. and G.’s activities. Last
year, despite difficult conditions, new assur-
ances totalling £6,265,055 were put on the
books in this department, and that was
£7O,SS2 more than was written in the pre-
ceding 12 months. The average per policy
was £4B; it was £49 in 1928 and 1927
respectively. But exes, took 38.1 p.c. of
the net premiums compared with 37.6, 38.2
and 38.6 p.c. back to 1926.
What it cost to handle each department
as a whole is shown in this next compari-
son ;
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
Sept., Ordinary. Industrial.
1910 .. £22 19 7 p.c. £3B 4 4 p.c.
1915 .. 13 9 11 „ 36 5 8 „
1920 . . 17 12 10 „ 34 8 3 „
1925 . . 16 2 5 „ 32 16 9 „
1926 . . 15 16 9 „ 31 17 9 „
1927 .. 15 15 10 „ 32 0 0 „
1928 . . 'l4 19 9 „ 30 16 10 „
1929 . 16 4 3 „ 30 18 0 „
Of the £40,623 by which exes, in (lie
Ordinary branch increased last year £17,409
was on account of taxation, botli Federal
and State Governments having recently de-
cided to levy on the investment earnings of
life offices. Thus nearly half the 245.. 6d.
by which the expense rate expanded was
extra Government bleeding, and it was re-
sponsible for the whole of the growth in
the Industrial department’s rate. For several
years previously the figures had been steadily
pulled down.
A more encouraging feature has been the
steady improvement in the rate of earnings,
which has helped to widen the margin of
surplus available for distribution as
bonuses:—
Interest Earnings p.c. op Average Funds.
1910 .. £4 10 6 p.c. 1925... £5 10 0 p.c.
1914 .. 4 12 6 „ 1926 .. 5 11 1 „
1918 .. 4 IS 9 „ 1927 .. 5 13 3 „
1922 .. 57 0 „ 1928 .. 5 14 . 0 „
1924 .. 5 8 0 „ 1929 .. 5 17 0 „
The office assumes a future net return of
at most 3£ p.c. on its funds, whereas these
actually brought in £5 17s. p.c. last year, an
improvement of 10s. per cent, over the last
seven years. Part of this is due to a change
in the character of investments, more money
being now put into mortgages. Three years
ago these stood in the books at £449,595;
at last balance the figure had grown to
£2,359,560. This next comparison shows the
proportion in which the funds are placed:—
1915. 1920. 1927. 1928. 1929.
p.c. p.c. p.c. p.e. p.c.
Public securities . . 34.9 64.4 75.5 71.4 65.7
Loans . . . . 43.0 23.2 14.7 17.5 22.4
Freeholds . . . . 16.3 9.8 7.7 9.2 9.7
Cash and sundries . . 5.8 2.6 2.1 1.9 2,2
Last year the society’s old freehold in Swan-
ston-street, Melbourne, was sold at a nice
profit (there was still £74,375 owing on the
deal when the books closed) and the con-
tingency fund (£163,000) benefited by
£58,000. Over the last three years £545,333
has been added to the book value of free-
holds (£1,419,126), most of the increase
being on account of the fine new head-office
premises, in Melbourne, which were com-
pleted during the year.
Incidentally, the board lias decided to em-
bark on “an extensive scheme of Accident
insurance.” Competition is very keen and
rates fine in this class of business, but it may
prove a handy feeder. The field certainly is
very wide. , , '
United Provisions, Ltd.
Profits. , Dividends
£ Pref. Ord. £ £ £
1928..123,466 8 p.c. 8 p.c. = 100,854 22,612 628
1929. .112,094 8 „ 8 „ „ 112,000 94 722
This holding co. was formed in Oct., 1927,
and amalgamated the well-established ham,
bacon and food-canning businesses of J. C.
Ilutton Pty., Ltd., and Foggitt Jones, Ltd.
Between them they operate nine factories
scattered over all the Australian States, and
there is a subsidiary in Maoriland as well.
For the £716,700 of scrip in the two operating
concerns the holding co. paid £1,355,005,
partly in shares and partly in cash. To
finance the latter part of the programme, and
provide additional working capital for the
operating cos., the holding co. offered the
public 325,000 8 p.c. prefs., which were
quickly oversubscribed. A further 8275 ords.
were taken up by employees last year, mak-
ing paid capital £1,400,000 in 450,000 prefs.
and 950,000 ords. at Sept. 30. No goodwill
figured in the deal, each eo.’s assets being
revalued for the purposes of the merger.
The idea behind the amalgamation was
to end the old wasteful competition between
the two cos., thereby improving their trade
position and reducing overhead. The respec-
tive goodwills that had been built up were
preserved, each co. continuing to trade under
its old sign.
During the year following the merger
trading conditions were favorable,, and the
two operating cos. registered a combined
net profit of £138,385, or £7342 more than
the average net earnings of the two concerns
combined for the three years before that.
And that was after setting aside £20,000 for
contingencies. The £127.335 passed on to
the United Co. enabled it, after paying a
handful of exes., to make an all-round 8
p.c. distribution to shareholders, write
£21,984 of preliminary exes, out of the
accounts, and put a trifle (£628) in the
cupboard. This creditable performance gave
rise to the hope that the ords. might get
something, better than S p.c. in the near
future.
For the 12 months to .Tune 30 last the
combined figures showed an increase of
£131,477 in turnover, which mounted to
£3,288,204, despite generally depressing con-
ditions. But competition sharpened, as it
usually does under such circumstances, and
margins narrowed. Thus gross profits
(£447,158) fell away £18,184; and as exes.
(£328,295) were £1338 heavier, the slip in
the net result (£118,863) was £19,522.
The LTnited Co. received £112.600 in diva.,
of which exes, took only £506, leaving
£112.094 net. That was only £94 more than
the 8 p.c. div. called for. Combining the
figures of the holding co. and the two sub-
sidiaries, last ' year’s net result was a profit
of £118,357 as against £134,516 for the pre-
vious term. Thus, after handing the prefs.
in the United Co. their requirements
(£36,000), the balance of last year’s profit
fell back to 8.6 p.c. on the 950,000 of ord.
capital compared with 10.3 p.c. in 1928.
Though the general outlook is not very
bright, the business is well equipped to earn
profits. The finances are quite comfortable;
there is a very extensive goodwill which is
given no value in the books, and the fact
that the subsidiaries carry on manufacturing
operations in all States should mean much
as far as local troubles are concerned. Future
results will largely depend upon competition
and the course of prices.
Here is the position as the combined
baance-sheet figures of the operating cos.
disclose it
Operating Cos.' Combined Figures.
1928. 1929.
Paid capital.. £716,700 £716,700
Overdraft . . .. .. 98,239 150,378
Creditors . . .. .. 171,705 202,470
Premises, plant, etc. " .. 514,996 5\3,199
Stock 344,954 377,967
Debtors .. ...... .. 366,310 386,130
Shares in other cos. .. 94,506 95,162
Cash, etc. . . . . . . 4,936 5,142
During the year £52,139 was heaped on to
the overdraft, and £30,765 on to the amount
coming to trade creditors. The money went
mostly into stocks (up £33,01.3) and book
debts (up £19,820). The more or less liquid
surplus (£416,391, including stocks) was
£29,865 lighter than at the previous balance.
Stocks were substantial, but they are- re-
ported to have been worked down since the
close of accounts.
Because of the decline in profits and the
altered outlook the investment market has
revised its estimate of the United Co.’s scrip.
The ords., for which 28s. 6d. was paid a
year ago, are now at 245. 6d. The return
at the latter figure is 6.5 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis. The backing amounts to a shade
over 20s. per share in net tangibles. During
the twelvemonth the price for the prefs. has
eased a shilling to 245., at which, figure the
return is 6.6 p.c. They carry a fixed cumu-
lative 8 p.c. and have priority as to capital.
Last year’s profit was over three times their
annual requirements, and the net tangible
cover is a shade over £3 per share.
Warburton, Franki, Ltd.
Net Dividends To Re-
Profit. All Shares. serves. Deficit.
Sept., £ £ £ £
1924.. 3,857 8 p.e. - 2880 977 717
Reserves.
1925.. 4,312 8 „ „ 2880 1,432 715
Assets revalued; goodwill (£12,677)
written off and general reserve added
to by £3646 17,038
1926.. 6,513 10 p.c. = 3600 2,913 19,951
Unexplained reduction in reserves, £ 1707. . 15,244
1927.. 15,338 10 p.c. = 3600 11,738 29,982
Reserves capitalised, £9OOO .. .. 20,982
1928.. 15,496 12* p.c. = 6390 9,106 30,088
1929.. 15,587 124 „ „ 8490 7,097 37,185
This co. started in the electrical and
mechanical engineering line in Sydney nearly
20 years ago. There was not much in it;
after 10 years of trading only £3025 of re-
-servos had accumulated to offset £9OOO of
goodwill. As late as 1919 the ords. were
passed over, and for the next five or six
years the business moved very quietly, pay-
ing 7 p.c. and then 8 p.c. Then, as a way out
of the difficulties which beset the trade after
the war, the board changed the business
from a manufacturing to a merchandising
concern. The management set to work to
develop specialty lines, at the same time
weeding out old lines that were not paying.
The agencies for, among other things, an
electric refrigerator and country-house light-
ing system, two of General Motors’ products,
were secured. Assisted by an extraordinary
demand for electric refrigerators, due largely
to competition in the flat business, turnover
soon bounded ahead and attractive results were
won. Profits made their leap in 1927, reaching
42.6 p.c. on the £36,000 of paid capital, com-
pared with 15.3, 11.9 and 10.7 p.c. for the
three preceding years. The 10 p.c. div.
was sweetened with £9OOO of bonus scrip,
and to help finance the growing business
15,000 ords. were put out at par. Another
20,000 were issued early in the last term,
making paid capital £BO,OOO in 20,000 prefs.
and 60,000 ords. at September 30.
Since then declared profits have shown
little improvement. Competition, especially
in electric refrigerators, has become keener,
which probably means that margins are not so
wide as they were and more service is neces-
sary. For the 12 months to the close of last
accounts the net improvement was only £9l.
Still, the £15,587 of profit shown was 22.9
p.c. on average capital as against 30.3 for
the preceding,term, so the all-round 121 p.c.
distribution offered no difficulty. The £7097
of the year’s net earnings that remained in
the business lifted the support for capital
to £37,185, equal to 9s. 3d. per share. Of
course, everything may not be on view, but
four years ago freeholds, which previously
figured at £15,926, were written up £14,874,
and £l4OO-odd was similarly added to the
book value of investments; thus the board
was able to rule goodwill (£12,677) out of
the accounts and add £3646 to general
reserves.
The recent growth of the business has
been financed largely on borrowed money,
as this comparison of balance-sheet figures
shows: —
1924. 1926. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital . . £30,000 £30,000 £59,914 £BO,OOO
Liabilities . . 42,712 49,008 70,824 112,343
Freeholds, etc. .. 16,926
Plant, etc. .. 3,260 J 32,571 30,147 37,73,1
Stocks, etc. . . 32,906 34,171 50,210 85,368
Book debts . . 10,881 28,182 57,200 78,545
Investments, cash,
etc 11,212 12,790 28,290 33,290
The new capital that came in during the
year, and the £35,519 added to the debt,
went into stocks and work in progress (up
£35,147) and book debts (up £21,285). The
more or less liquid surplus (£84,861, includ-
ing stocks and investments) was £25,913
stronger than at the close of accounts in
1928. Nevertheless, there was 19s. 2d. of
outside money at risk in the business for
every £1 owned by shareholders at Septem-
ber 30. Investments (up £5000) include the
eo.'s holdings in the Melbourne and Bris-
bane subsidiaries.
Assets are claimed to be conservatively
valued, and a lot depends upon that and the
terms of the agency agreements. Future
results, will largely depend upon the sus-
tained popularity of the chief profit-earning
lines, and upon the growth of competition.
It is possible that newer machines may be
put on the market at lower - prices. This,
at any rate, is what happened in connection
with, to cite two instances only, gramophones
and wireless installations. It is a contin-
gency which. the investor has to take into
account.
Since the last balance shareholders on the
pref. and ord. registers have been offered
20,000 new £1 ords., one for four, at par.
When the money on that lot is in paid
capital will be £lOO,OOO, on which last year’s
profit was equal to 15.5 p.c. On the market
the ords. recently fetched 355. 6d. After
exercising the rights and allowing for the
final div., tin 1 average cost at that price is
30s. lOd.; at which figure the return is a
shade over 8 p.c. on a 121 p.c. div. basis.
The prefs. carry a cumulative 7 p.c. and
advance with the ords. in any distribution
beyond that rate. They have priority as t/>
capital and share in surplus assets ; but they
seldom come on to the market. Including
the new issue the backing for all shares
amounts to 275. sd. in net tangibles.
Adelaide Electric Supply Co., Ltd.
f —Dividends—, Nomi-
Net Ords. To Re- nal Re-
Aug., Profit.* Prefs. 12 p.c. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1923.. 143,268 50,997 0 0,000 32,271 343,875
1924.. 170,131 51.877 60,000 28,254 372,12!.
1925. . 243,554 9 7,400 60,00 0 86,156 458,283
Loss on Grenfell-street plant, £321,737 136,546
1926.. 307,208 119,482 60,000 127.726 264,272
1927.. 338,879 134,952 60,000 143,927 408,190
1928.. 320,260 155,857 60,000 104,403 512.602
1929.. 366,261 166,406 60,000 139,855 652,457
x Tneludes provision for debenture sinking fund.
Chiefly because of the board’s vigorous
policy of country extensions, this big Adel-
aide electrical undertaking has developed so
rapidly that more than half its £4,255.641 of
share and debenture capital at Aug. 31 had
been got in during the last seven years. Last
year another quarter-million 64 p.c. prefs.
were put out, raising , the share capital to
£3,000,000, and adding £10,549 to the year’s
dividend requirements. Earnings, however,
have moved along briskly, and profits have
kept well in advance of the mounting divi-
dend charges. One factor which makes 1-
p.c. on the half-million of ords. an easy
matter while things go well is that there is


f )3.000,000 in one year
from Rabbit Farming
i '
Si
4 Yi
V \
'««
‘3
Vs
a , %
t-//
“Wl
es£
H
n
P
Pi
=%
//
✓ h w to,
&
i*S?
jj
885#
Those are the official figures of the rabbit fur
industry in France for last year—yet Angora
rabbits bred in France cannot compare with the
Australian-bred animal! For years this country
has been missing a golden opportunity—AT
LAST IT IS AWAKE! The scientific breed-
ing and farming of Angora rabbits in captivity
will shortly become one of Australia’s wealthiest
industries. Already—within 25 miles of Sydney
—that industry has been strongly established.
This is your first opportunity to share in its
golden rewards.
Wealth. Mich double site// every 8 weeks
At the 68-acre Castle Hill Stud Farm of N.S.W. Wool and Fur
Limited are over 2000 specially selected and perfectly bred Angora
rabbits living under ideal conditions. By the end of January there will
be 4000. After 1 930 the Company will be in charge of an increase
of 400,000 rabbits every year. Good Angora furs are worth from
5/- to 30/-. Angora wool is in such demand that one rabbit can
earn 18/- per annum, and hutch-fed rabbit carcases make most de-
licious food; you can see the enormous wealth which is latent in this
new industry.
N.S.W. Wool and Fur Limited has been formed to develop and
extend scientific rabbit farming until it ranks as a front-rank industry.
It will market furs, pelts, wool, and carcases. The possibilities are
obvious—and almost staggering. Remember—this Company is ready
for immediate commercial operations. It has the rabbits, the equip-
ment, and the organisation.
Ihmmdom demand Her Imuliful Anioni Fur
The fur of the Australian-bred Angora is richer and heavier than any
that are imported. Furriers admit this—they are ready to accept
almost any quantities of fur that can be produced. This Company is
breeding to supply. But it intends to develop its Australian enterprise
until it becomes national in scope.
Here is your opportunity to “come in on the ground floor.” Don't
wait until it is too late, and the price of shares has soared. The issue
is too clear to the whole of the public to make delay desirable. Fill
in the coupon and get the full prospectus right away.
N.S.W. WOOL & FUR LIMITED
NOMINAL CAPITAL, £150,000
Divided into 150,000 Shares of £1 each.
(Second isoiie of 34,185 Shares of £1 each.)
V- per Share on application; 1/- per Share on allotment. Calls of not more than 1/
per share at intervals of not less than 1 month as and when required.
(Full Prospectus on request.)
Directors:
W. M. FLEMING (Chairman), Grazier,
Terrigal.
C. A. COOPER (Managing), 115 Pitt-
street, Sydney.
GEORGE WRIGHT, Fur Breeder, Pon-
yara,, Castle Hill.
F. LONBON, Manufacturer, Castlereagh-
street, Sydney
HARRY’ PRICE, Company Manager, 76
Pitt-street, Sydney.
H. T. BLACKET, Grazier, Dubbo.
W D. JOHNSTON, Company Director,
Manly.
Bankers: THE ENGLISH, SCOTTISH,
AND AUSTRALIAN BANK, LTD.,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Solicitor: J. A. CLAPIN, 119 PHILLIP-
STREET, SYDNEY.
Auditor: H. F. HELDER. CHARTERED
ACCOUNTANT (AUST), 76 PITT-
STREET, SYDNEY.
Secretary and Registered Office: W. J.
STRUMEY, DALTON HOUSE (2nd
Fir.), 115 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
-Destined
QUICKLY
to he one of'
AUSTIU.UAS
Wealthiest
Industries
Think this matter over. Try hard to find a flaw in it. Logic and
hard facts will convince you every time. The Government has ad-
mitted the rich possibilities of this industry—and N.S.W. Wool
and Fur Limited has placed itself far ahead of any possible
competition.
SEIZE THIS
Cl tana*
The Directors, N.S.W. Wool and Fur Limited.
Dalton House, 115 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —
I hereby apply for Shares of £1 each in the above issue, and
I agree toi accept the same or any less number that may be allotted to me. I
authorise you to register me as a holder of such shares, and I agree to be
bound by the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company.
I enclose £ , being 1/- (one shilling) per share payable on
Application, and I agree to pay 1/- per share on Allotment, and the balance
in Calls if required, not exceeding 1/- per share in any one month.
DATED THIS DAY OF 19
NAME IN FULL
(Mr. Mrs., or Miss)
ADDRESS
OCCUPATION
SIGNATURE
MAKE SURE OF YOUR SHARE.
Next week may be too late. Make yourself a Christmas present
which will stand in excellent and profitable stead all through
your life.


Mobilising
I the Gold
WHAT DOES IT MEAN?
In its December number the
“Wild Cat” Monthly tells
you. The whole financial posi-
tion is reviewed.
The Bank of N. S. Wales
has reduced its dividend rate.
What does that signify ?
Clearly things are threaten-
ing which investors ought to
know about.
In these uncertain days
every investor—even though
it be only in a life insurance
policy—owes it to himself and
his family to keep himself
informed.
Let the Monthly help you.
DECEMBER NUMBER
READY SATURDAY
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER
22/6. From Newsagents, or
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide, Perth.
ANNUM,
Bulletin
Brisbane,
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagli
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — A dvt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * #
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
The specification of Pioneer Wood Pipe in many
important contracts indicates the confidence placed
in this remarkable conduit by engineers. Pioneer
W ood Pipe has gained this confidence on its merits
" it has proved over and over again its extreme
reliability for every class of conduit service. Light,
strong, easily and cheaply handled, freighted, trans-
ported and laid—non-corrosive and possessing extreme
durability. Write for an illustrated book of interest-
ing data—free on request. The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Figtree
Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at Footscray,
Victoria.— Advt.
# * * *
Boycotted Book. —“ The Pleasant Career of a
Spendthrift,” by George Meudell, can be obtained
from the author for 10/6 remitted by post to 135
William Street, Melbourne. — Advt.
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.— Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
&
YG
K 2 © SL SOKf
P V L ONDON. ENGLAND
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
Vx
DT
[Lgivirt & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents. 26 30 Clarfiii-f St.. Sydney
Insure with ttie
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1572.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office iii. Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident Motor Car, Plate-Glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone,
etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
Claims rromp y h wg> BROWN, General Manager.
,um 11111 l
Get your
ml
PAINTS and
VARNISHES
from
AGENTS
EVERYWHERE. =
H THEY " KEEP ON KEEPING ON !" ■—==
no less than £2,500,000 of pref. and
£1,285,646 of debenture money which cost
the co. on the average only a shade over
7 p.c. last year. On the other hand, if times
should be bad, the overwhelming proportion
of the pref. and debenture debt might leave
the ordinaries in a very squashed condition.
Though the number of new consumers put
on the books during the 12 months to the
close of last accounts was only 2855 as against
469 S in the previous term, the spring in
revenue was £37,642, or £ll5l better than
the preceding year’s. That was because
sales averaged 5.3 k.w. per consumer as
against 4 k.w. in 1928; three years ago the
figure was only 2 k.w. Here are revenue
and operating figures:—
1922. 1928. 1929.
Gross revenue .. . . £372,166 £801,614 £839,156
Operating exes. & taxes 215,924 389,568 388,431
Net revenue .. .. £156,542 £411,946 £450,725
Another feature that catches the eye is that
operating exes, and taxes were actually £1137
lighter. This was due mainly to a shrinkage
of £13,046 in the outlay on repairs and
renewals (£103,508), which were exception-
ally heavy in the previous term. The growth
in generating charges (£159,320) was
£16,045, which is not heavy considering that
the stoppage on the northern N. S. Wales
coalfields compelled the management to im-
port supplies at an extra cost of about
£15,600 to date. After allowing for the
debenture interest (£77,788) and striking
off £10,441 on account of scrapped plant
and to wipe out the cost of the share issue,
the net result was £46,001 better than the
1928 figure.
The quickness with which the business lias
spread is illustrated by the growth in the
area covered by the co.’s statutory powers.
Seven years ago it was approximately 157
sq. miles with an estimated population of
248,000 people; at Aug. 31 last supply was
available over 3314 sq. miles with a popu-
lation of about 325,000. Virginia Blocks,
Two Wells, Ashton and Norton’s Summit
were linked up to the co.’s mains during the
last term, and an extension from Gawler to
Lyndoch is in progress.
A bright feature of the consumption figures
is an increase of 26.490 k.w. in the quantity
of current used for power purposes over the
last tw T o years. The co. offers special rates
for this class of business; and the growth
of secondary industries, the absence of black
coal in S. Aus. and the fact that the metro-
politan supply of firewood is scarce and dear
have helped it greatly. _
The improved financial results that have
followed the rapid extension of the mains
have been due largely to more efficient plant.
Old machines have been scrapped and modern
ones installed: the call for depreciation is
always pretty loud in this business—or any
other business where rapid progress is made
in technique. Here reserves have to tie
bitten into deeply whenever much of the
plant has to be replaced, as the events of
four years ago clearly illustrate. Therefore,
reserves in the table are described as
nominal; and for that reason the “Wild
Cat” will not swear that the profit figures
are all they look, either. Everything not
representing value is said to have been
cleaned out of the accounts. But how quickly
plant becomes obsolete and loses value can
be gathered from the fact that the new
10,000-k.w. turbo-alternator, which is pre-
sently to replace two 5000-k.w. units, which
have been sold, is expected to save the co.
£7OOO p.a. in coal alone. This represents the
advances made by manufacturers ot these
machines during the last half-dozen years.
Here is as much as balance-sheet figures
disclose; — „
1922. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital . . £1,250,000 £2,750,000 £3,000,000
Debenture stock.. 530,140 1,304,692 1,285,641
Other liabilities . . 125,155 92,988 81,014
Fixed assets . • 2,078,796 4,246,151 4,691,220
Stores etc .. 84,142 154,988 128,321
Book ’debts .. 54,418 128,191 146,188
Cash & investments 83,708 239,076 170,133
Last year £450,184 was spent on the
main asset, making the total outlay thereon
£2,562,027 over the last six years. The
trade debt is well covered.
Since the close of accounts £250,000 of
6 p.c. debentures were offered locally, and
quickly over-subscribed. To reduce the cleri-
cal work in connection with scrip transfers,
the various classes of shares are to be con-
verted into a similar amount of stock, carry-
ing exactly the same rights as the shares,
so shareholders will not be affected by the
change. After allowing for the final div.
each £1 of pref. capital had a net tangible
backing of 41s. 9d. at August 31, mostly m
plant. The year’s profit was over three
times their combined annual requirements.
The cover for the ords. and preferred ords.
was 30s. sd. in net tangibles. The market
prices all classes of the co.’s scrip, which
has not been affected much by the recent
depression on the Stock Exchange, on
approximately a 6 p.c. basis.
Bank of N. S. Wales Dividend Reduced.
Although they were told that the 21
n.c. bonus was not to be regarded as perma-
nent, nevertheless as it had been sent out
with the 10 p.c. div. for four years, and
as admitted net earnings were comfortably
in excess of the aggregate 124 p.c., share-
holders looked upon that rate as extremely
unlikely to be interfered with. So the
board’s decision “not to pay a bonus on this
occasion” greatly surprised the market, which
is in a rather nervy condition at the moment,
and the price of banking stocks generally
was affected. The £2O B.N.S.W. shares
themselves fell sharply from £47 10s. to
£44; over last week-end a seller at £4l
could find no bid above £3B. That is the
lowest offer for the scrip since 1923, two
years before the distribution of the bonus
commenced. After allowing for the final
div. (10s.) the immediate return at £4l
is just under 5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis,
and 6.1 p.c. should the bonus be restored.
The reason for snipping off the bonus was
the board’s decision to further strengthen
the resources as a protection against an
“appreciable fall in values,” which it feels
certain is lurking around a near-by corner.
About the readjustment in capital values
there is no doubt; indeed it has already
occurred to some extent in suburban real
estate and in pastoral and agricultural pro-
perties. To what extent it is likely to con-
tinue it is impossible to say. It will largely
depend upon seasonal conditions, the course
of prices and the terms upon which the Gov-
ernment is able to borrow abroad.
For the past decade we have over-borrowed
and over-spent, thus forcing up wages, the
cost of production and capital values. Now
a sudden stoppage of loan money, the cer-
tainty of a much smaller return from wool
and wheat and still louder demands from the
taxgatherer have thrown pitch into the out-
look. On the other hand, the strengthening
of the tariff has already begun to benefit
local manufacturers, recent rains have im-
proved seasonal prospects in some areas, the
long idleness on the coalfields seems like
at last coming to an end, and conditions in
the New York and London money markets
have recently become easier. Thus some of
the gloom of a few months ago has been
chased out of the picture.
Still, things are a long way from being
comfortable; the mobilisation of our gold
reserves—the bill relating to which is now
before Parliament —is a frank acknowledg-
ment of the fact. The position is this: for
the nine years to June 30, 1929, the value
of goods which Australia sold to other people
was £63,000,000 less than the value of the
goods she bought from them. Obviously we
are now compelled to take in our belt, to
buy less abroad, increase our production
and reduce costs.
. The Wales, which came through the finan-
cial storms of the ’nineties with scarcely a
shudder, has grown strong on a traditional
diet of financial caution and the husbanding
of its strength. To support its £7,500,000
of paid capital there were visible reserves
of £6,313,478 at Sept. 30, and the inner
strength is known to be very considerable.
Notwithstanding an increase of no less than
£8,074.592 in advances, and of only
£1,541,497 in deposits, the year’s declared
profit (£994,825) was £190,118 short of the
1928 figure, or 33.2 p.c. on average capital
compared with 15.8, 17.3, 18.3 and 16.3 p.c.
back to 1925. Obviously the board has not
overstated the position.
The accounts will be reviewed in these
columns in more detail next week.
The Royal Commission on Mining in
Queensland, which started taking evidence
last April, is now finalising its report. It
has had unique opportunities of presenting
an unusual document, for in an interval Prof.
Richards flitted to S. Africa and absorbed
mining operations on the Rand and in
Rhodesia, while A. A. Boyd, of Mt. Morgan,
has been to America to find out the way to
pay dividends on 2 p.c. copper ore. Richards
has, come back with the story of a new era
in mining—the day of the pick has gone, he
says, and the man of scientific training, with
drill and assay, is producing the bulk of the
world’s metal from stuff old prospectors
-would scoff ar. So let’s on witli tin- new
in Queensland; with drills, payment by re-
sults as far as possible, continuous running
of the wheels, arid, preceding all, accurate
survey and analysis of the deposits to be
attacked, thus striking a blow at the ghastly
and unnecessary losses that have occurred in
the past.
* * *
After a faltering start owing to small ore
supplies and uncertainty as to future require-
ments, the Chillagoe State Smelters (Q.)
seem secure now for an extended run with
the lead furnace. Miners have been coaxed
back and given sympathetic advice and treat-
ment by manager Rutledge and geologist
Morton. The result is visible in gradually
increasing mining activities and smelter sup-
plies. The furnace is treating 500 tons of
silver-lead ore weekly, and four months’ sup-
plies are on hand. This has been accomplished
without the assistance of the Girofla, at
Mungana, which w T as the former mainstay of
Chillagoe. However, Friday Ahern is just
reported to have taken up the mine, and sup-
plies may be expected later, probably from
shoots at the shallower levels. It is too
early yet to say how the ledger will balance,
but there is not much doubt that it will be
on the credit side, for things are being run
on business lines.
* * Hs $
The Mt. Gannindah copper-mine (Q.) is
working again and more than paying its way.
Some excellent faces of ore have been broken
by the new tribute co., which is shipping 80
to 100 tons of high-grade concentrates
monthly. Operations are still on a small
scale, but about 20 men have been absorbed.
It looks to be a mine with decided possibili-
ties, and might stand development on a large
scale.
# * * *
The “Wild Cat” understands that the State
Mining Engineer in Tas. has gone to the
Stanley River tinfield to collect mineral speci-
mens for the Development and Migration
Commission. Some very interesting ones are
found there, illustrating the occurrence of
tin in granite. The granite carries large
crystals of orthoclase felspar, often over an
inch long and half an inch wide. The pink
felspar has been entirely displaced by green
tourmaline, which has, however, preserved
the crystal shape of the felspar. The tour-
maline in its turn has been corroded and
x-eplaced by greyish-brown tin oxide or cas-
siterite, which is easily seen with the naked
eye. The specimens are quite plentiful in
the bed of a mountain stream, and the
wonder is that the source of them has never
been fpund.
* * Jj. , ;Jc
Word comes from London that a few
venturesome persons are tempted to give
some of the old abandoned mines at Kan-
owna (W.A.) another trial. At present
this field is almost dead, and the line which
once linked it with Kalgoorlie has been torn
up and taken away. Its two former chief
reefing mines were White Feather and White
Feather North, but all that now remains
of a once prosperous centre, where as much
as £4OO a day was taken by a local beer
house, are a few dismal, rickety structures,
rusting plant and a handful of battlers.
Another Westralian derelict which Lon-
don is said to have its eye upon is the
Youanmi, on the East Murchison field. This
is one of the mines which were sponsored
by 8., M. and Co., and which Hoover boosted
for a time. There was a lot of ore await-
ing development at depth when the co.
which worked it gave up, but shareholders
could not be persuaded to find further capi-
tal, and an appeal to the State Government
for assistance failed.
#'* * *
London, Australian and General Explora-
tion Co. was formed during the Coolgardie
boom by C. A. Moreing and others to dig
for gold in Westralia, and for some years
worked the East Murchison United and other
shows at Lawlers and elsewhere. Later it
amalgamated with Gt. Fingall, and tried its
luck at tin fossicking in Cornwall. Later
still it became interested in an Italian zinc
venture. Tin and zinc are still its weak-
ness. Accounts for year ended July 31 last
show a profit of £8657; no div. was de-
clared. Paid capital is £142,834 in half-
crown shares. The last 5 p.c. was handed
out in 1926.
* 4= * *
Some discontented shareholders are again
urging the Associated Northern Co. (W.A.)
to wind up. The co.’s original property at
Kalgoorlie contained a rich section of the
famous Brownhill shoot, and good divs. were
paid for several years. When this bonanza
was supposed to be worked out the co. tried
its luck at Ora Banda, near Broad Arrow,
and also acquired a show in Mexico. Neither
venture came up to expectations. Some time
after the co. ceased operations on its own
account in the Kalgoorlie mine, and let it
on tribute. The tributor took out tons of
gold, and it is one of the mysteries of the
field why the co. did not work the block from
which this wealth was extracted.
* * * *
A div. of 3d. per share, the first since 1924,
will be paid by Gt. Boulder on Dec. 18. As
a profit-earner the co. has had a glorious
past. Starting with a4O per cent. div. in
1895 it paid 100 per cent, in 1896 and 155
per cent, in 1897; then an average of 119.6
p.c. for the next seven years. For the 12
years to the close of accounts in 1917 the
rate was steady at 150 p.c., followed by
1121 per cent., 1918; 75 per cent., 1919,
1920, 1921; 50 per cent, 1922: 16§ per cent.,
1923. By that time the co. had got rid of
nearly all its savings and had to call a halt.
At present the Boulder is being worked to
a limited extent on the co.’s own account.
Tributors, some of whom have done well,
are helping.
* * * *
Associated Co. (W.A.) hangs on. _ Years
ago the life of its mine was limited to
months, but it has since continued to pro-
duce regularly and is now earning small
profits. The show still has possibilities and
may last a long time yet. It is situated in
a locality where a rich patch may be struck
at any time. Meanwhile its manager, a
canny Scot, is making a prisoner on behalf
of the co. of every bawbee over and above
exes.
* * * *
Wilga Coal Ventures (W.A.) still hangs
fire. For some months the controllers have
been trying to obtain funds in London, but
are now negotiating for capital in Germany.
Several tests of Wilga coal made in England
are declared to have been O.K.
* * * *
Tin Options, which started life with an
eye on Malayan tin dredging, recently took
an option over the Yampi iron-ore deposit
in north-west Australia. A market for the
output at the right price is engaging the
co.’s attention at present: it has been engag-
ing somebody’s attention pretty regularly
for the past 20 years. When it has
been found a pup is to be formed to work
the property. The co. spent £6OO on develop-
ment for the year ended June 30 last; tin-
surplus of liquid assets is given as £3388,
apart from 1979 £1 shares in Bidor Tin, a
co. floated by Tin Options in 1926 to
dredge a Malayan property.


T. ©» G.
MUTUAL LIFE SOCIETY
The Balance-sheet and Report for 1929, to be presented to Members at the Annual
Meeting of the Society on the 13th December, will
SHOW the FOLLOWING REMARKABLE GROWTH:-
1919
1924
1929
1919
1924
1929
1919
1924
1929
INCOME
£1,032,568
£2,144,139
£3,623,889
NEW BUSINESS
£4,812,930
£9,612,483
£12,219,710
ASSETS
£3,482,054
—— £7,903,490
£14,567,530
ASSURANCES IN FORCE
£15,163,766
£33,149,594
£53,162,732
1919
1924
1929
The T. & G. Mutual Life Society is one of the most Progressive
Life Offices in the British Empire
The Australasian Temperance and General Mutual Life Assurance Society, Limited.
J. T. THOMPSON, Esq.. Chairman.
R. McDonald. Esq.
DIRECTORS:
P. R. SUTHERLAND, Esq.
W. FORSTER WOODS, Esq.
A. R. STEWART. Esq.
Col. C. E. MERRETT. C.8.E., V.D.


77.
XII
a
“ \
w
i
m
lus-values now make
La Salle -Cadillac ownership more
desirable than
ever
c=>
n
o
0 find exactly the refinements that
could improve the La Salle and Cad iliac
was no small achievement when it is
considered that these fine motor cars
were already the choice of royalty,
nobility, and distinguished personages in all parts of
the world.
Yet, to move forward, rather than rest on laurels
already won, the new La Salle - Cadillac engines
have enhanced power, speed and flexibility. The
famous 90°, V-type engine, with a smoother flow of
power than any other type, is larger. A new
steering harmonizer eliminates road shock at the
wheel. Chassis are lower, wheel bases longer.
The famous beauty of body line—which set the new vogue
in motor styles—has been made even more alluring. The La
Salle, particularly, becomes the fastidious woman’s car, with
its ease of management and appointments in the Cadillac
tradition.
Yet to these values —which give these cars their enviable
position as products are added "plus values" you will not
find in every other fine car and without which your satisfac-
tion cannot be lasting. General Motors has backed its belief
that the manufacturer’s obligation does not cease with the
sale by a two-year warranty, and by the establishment of local
organizations dedicated to your service.
Your local La Salle-Cadillac distributor will appreciate the
opportunity of showing these splendid new cars to you, and
of explaining how the “plus values” in La Salle-Cadillac will
result in more satisfactory motoring
WARRANTED FOR TWO YEARS
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER
GENERAL MOTORS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Brisbane Sydney Melbourne Adelaide Perth
LA SALLE
Cadillac
They are General Motors Cars
3»i
aTnTTTpgrgnaiDi
w


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Pisk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,,
etc., etc
GILT-EDGED SECURITY
FOR ALL
MOTORISTS.
Silver Edge
(for tourers)
BRAKE
MOULDED LINING
(in sets ) for special
braking systems.
RAYBESTOS BELACO LTD.
LONDON.
S-SSS
Sr.'SS
WON’T FAIL YOU!
“Gold Edge”
(heavy duty )
LINING
CLUTCH FACINGS
AND SEGMENTS.
Factory Representative;
JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Melb.
52 Macleay St.
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT, SYDNEY
{Located within the City Boundary, ten
minutes from G.P.0 .)
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 160 rooms, is now open, and
features Single Rooms, Double
Rooms with Bath, and two-, three-
and four-room Suites with Bath.
Central Heating, Hot and Cold
Water, ’Phone and Bedside Lamp
in each room. Unsurpassed
Harbor views.
Telephone: F 2161 (8 lines).
Telegraphic Address: “Fifmac,”
Sydney.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Eureka”: Dave bad been telling the new
hand startling tales about snakes; how they
chased people for miles and how a bite meant
death in a few minutes. Choom was pon-
dering over this information, when Dad
handed him a bucket of cream to take to
the dairy. Just as he was about to enter
Choom spotted a big black snake right
between him and the doorway. H© stood
trembling, and staring at the reptile till
Dad arrived, summed up the situation, killed
the snake and took the bucket. He nearly
let it drop when he looked at it. It con-
tained 10 pounds of newly-made butter.
“E.F.0.”: Jacky kept his account at the
pub by cutting a notch in a stick for every
drink he had. The publican kept the stick.
Settling-up one week-end, Jacky disputed the
account. Pointing to a notch, he said : “Dat
not mine, boss. Dat one’s a forgery!”
* # * $
“Buttenderry”: Two gents humpin’ bluey,
a bloke ridin’ a bike an’ three blankards
in a motor-car —the old Bully wheeze was
recalled to mind a few days back. Driving
my t.-p. lizzy past a cottage the. lady of
the house emerged, and peremptorily sig-
nalled me to stop. “There’s a gentleman
workin’ on the road with me ’usban’,” she
stated, eyeing me the while with the utmost
distaste, “who wants about 20 pounds of
seed pertaters, an’ ses I’d ask the first one
of you farmin’ fellers I seen.” Why, oh why,
do our betters so cruelly emphasise the social
chasm that separates us?
* * * #
“Tuppence” : My first daughter was newly-
born. I was driving up the river to town to
have a look at her. I met Dick rigging his
camp on the river—he had lately been work-
ing for me. “Goin’ t’ town?” said he. “Yes,”
said I. “We’ve got a daughter, Dick!”
“Hum,” said he, turning and looking at the
clouds. “D’you think it’s goin’ t’ rain?”
“Dunno,” said I. “We’ve got a little daughter,
I tell you!” “H'um,” said he, “I don’t like
the way them clouds is workin’ up. What
d’you think about it? Think it’s goin’ t’
rain?” “Damn the rain!” I snapped. “We’ve
got a little daughter, I tell you !” “I think
I’ll rig me fly,” said Dick. “It might rain.”
“Oh,” says I, sarcastically. “By the way,
Dick, did I tell you we had a little daugh-
ter?” “Yes,” says he, weary-like. “I heard
you first time. I’ve got six of ’em.”
■ls * =l= *
“Beedoo”: I don’t know anything about
the records for starving of human faminists,
but whatever they are I will back a blow-
fly to beat them. I have one in my room
and his cage is a glass vase with a wide
bowl and a long, narrow neck. He got in
by himself and was left to get out the same
way but hasn’t done it yet, and he has now
been running round the sides of his cage for
10 months without food or water or a
blanket to pull over himself at night. Is
he an old man now, or still a youngster?
* * ■!< <s
“Malite”: The Vic. Mallee can beat “Hay-
band’s” helping hand. When Digger Mick
Mclnerney went out, leaving a wife and
kiddies to run the farm, the whole district
turned out. Twenty-two tractor-drawn and
five horse-drawn combines started at sunrise,
and 470 acres were sown by 1 p.m., the last
100 acres being done at almost two acres
per minute.
NO BIRTH CONTROL FOR ’E.
MRS. BUZZA: "You know , cleanliness is next to godliness, Mr. Tresize, and we are
trying to tidy up our town. Now, I want you to join our Anti-litter Brigade.”
DAD: “No good to we, Mrs. Buzza. We’m not going to keep our old sow just to look
at. I tell ’ee.”
“Colub”: In bygone ages the western
part of New Guinea was the home of a
gigantic snake which must have put every
reptile of these days completely in the
shade. So far, no
complete fossilised
skeleton of it has been
found, but sections
and portions which
have been unearthed
in the Fak-Fak region
of Dutch New Guinea
indicate that it ran to
about 60 feet in length
and was of proportion-
ate thickness. Appa-
rently it was of aqua-
tic habits, and may
have been the ancestor
of some of the giant
water-snakes which
now inhabit the seas
between New Guinea
and Java. The rep-
tile possessed an ex-
tremely small head
and probably a very
poor brain, which may
explain its extermina-
tion.
NOT PLAYING THE
GAME.
“Thash not fishin’. Not
PROPER fishin’."
“Courshe it’s not -proper
fishin’. He goes
down an’ hooks
’em on.”
“Pomegranate”: At one time when the
bright spirits of a district or suburb planned
a night’s entertainment, they called it,
honestly, a night out and collected expenses
to that end. Since 1914, however, no jollo
may be expected to succeed unless it is
ostensibly in aid of something, though the
something is lucky if it gets fourpence after
expenses are paid. A little bush settlement
had had “evenings” in aid of everything
from the pub piano to the Methodist lay-
mission, and excuses were becoming scarce,
Then someone thought of the cemetery, which
had no fence. It also had no existence,
apart from four Lands Department pegs,
and no occupants but a stillborn infant and
two miners killed ■ through playing with
dynamite when drunk. So it was decided
to have a vaudeville night and dance in
aid of the cemetery fence. They’ve been
having them ever since. The first was years
ago; the most recent was this month. So
far not a posthole has been dug.
* * * *
“Elbatt”: There was a Western N.S.W.
squatter who saw to it that his dogs, the
usual nondescripts, had ever a most vora-
cious appetite. Running in one of the pad-
docks was a particularly lively brood mare,
whose high value matched her high spirits.
One fine day he came to the hut and gave
us orders to bring the mare in. He’d make
her work, he said. So to the bush-paddock
we went, and, after a lot of language had
been spilled, we got her down near the
gate. But that was all. With a defiant
squeal she wheeled away, to crash on to the
splintered end of a box log, staking herself
in the shoulder, the stake breaking off short
and projecting from the evil-looking wound.
The nature of the wound made her removal
from the spot impossible. A vet. was sum-
moned from the nearest town, and on arrival
found it necessary to subdue the mare with
an anaesthetic, after which the stake was
withdrawn, the -wound cleansed and bathed
and stitched. Then, the mare still slumber-
ing blissfully, we all retired to the home-
stead. On our return we found 17 or 18
mongrels making a meal upon the sleeping
mare. Apparently they were under the im-
pression that she was dead. She was —then.
Twenty minutes later the dogs also were
dead.
* * * *
“Caradoc”: Bushmen haven’t much time
for the teetotaller, but they grant him the
negative compliment of faith that he won’t
blue-up money given him to hold for
the duration of a spree. This honorary job
of holding cash against “the morning after”
once landed me on the horns of a dilemma.
I was doling out to a man, a pound at a
time, proceeds of a substantial cheque I was
holding under a written and witnessed order
directing me not to disburse any more after
it had dwindled to £lO. At £ll I warned
him, and at £lO I stopped payment. He
turned nasty, accused me of thieving the
tenner, repudiated the order 'and threatened
police. The crowd that was helping him to
spend his cheque took the same line. Inclina-
tion whispered: ‘‘Give him his tenner and
be rid of the affair!” Obstinacy muttered:
“Defy the dirty mob!” and Expediency
asked: “Where’ll you be when, sobered up,
he comes for the money you had a written
order to retain?” The arrival at the pub of
another fool with a cheque to bust diverted
attention, and I was able to hold the tenner
and set its owner on the road a week later;
but I’m still not quite sure what I should
have done had the situation not changed
when it did.
* * * *
“Huffin-Guffin”: “Hop’s” affection for
’possums reminds me of a similar experi-
ence. A friend gave us a young ’un, cap-
tured alongside a trap in which its mother
lay mangled. We kept the joey till we con-
sidered it could fend for itself, and then
let it go free, there being plenty of trees about.
’Possum visited its home box quite regu-
larly. There, after a year’s interval, it
came one evening with a little one riding
on its back, and was evidently anxious to
show its baby off. A year later another
young ’possum came riding on its mother’s
back. But whether mother or grandma was
the beast of burden in the second case we
don’t know.
* =!= * *
“Tee Essbie”: The explanation of the
gecko’s defiance of the laws of gravity when
he jumped three to six inches across a
ceiling is, perhaps, to be found in the
evolutionary fact that birds are descended
from lizards. The gecko may be able to use
its spatulate toes as wings. The small “fly-
ing dragon” of Malaya, which makes long
sailing leaps from tree to tree, has wings
formed by the outward extension of their
ribs, which are connected by thin membranes
of skin. When a leap is made these ribs
spread out like a fan, supporting the lizard
like a parachute as it glides through the
air. Another bird-like practice of certain
large lizards, notably the frilled lizards of
Australia and the teguexin of the West
Indies and South America, is that of run-
ning swiftly for great distances on hind-
legs.
(Continued on page 25.)
LEFT OVER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
While, in the after-supper rest,
Loud youthful voices fling a jest,
Slow from the hut he makes his way ,
To smoke and dream at close of day
Down by the “crick.” Half-pensioner,
Half-worker still, his mates aver
He holds among the trees and posts
Each twilight a parade of ghosts.
With him old customs linger on,
Bushcraft of fifty years agone.
His tardy mind can never learn
Why men to newer ways should turn.
Something left over from the past,
Only the early methods last
In his slow reckoning.... And so
He lives the years-an’-years-ago,
Worn out, yet feebly faithful 5ti11....
I think for crude old men like Bill,
Who give their best, the kind All-Wise
Must have a separate Paradise,
Where such can take the rest they’ve earned
And newer ways need not be learned;
Where mateships 'are renewed each morn
From days “afore you chaps was born.”
There may they at their will condemn
A world that moved too fast for them;
Or tell, where each one understands,
Of stockmen who were master-hands.
And as the dusk at close of day
Softens the bitternessi away,
A camp-fire paradise they know
Built from the dreams of years ago.
MAORILAND.
C.H. WINTER.


wnvNrNG 'NEW
FRIENDS EVERY DAY
Triumphs won, sales records broken, world-wide acclaim
as the most successful achievement in the field of low-
price sixes have not found the De Soto Six content to rest
upon its laurels. Conceived and built by Chrysler
Motors, this car of character is continuing to prove
its superior appeal to those who insist on distinction
in their motoring. $ Alert and brilliant performance,
smooth power, easy control and the utter comfort of this
stylish De Soto Six have captured, almost romantically,
the fancy of the motoring public. $ Owners, indeed,
talk of the De Soto Six in terms of generous affection
as if it were a living comrade rather than a motor car.
It is this individuality that has set the De Soto Six
apart. It is this which will make you eager for
this car’s possession as soon as you get your hands
upon the wheel.
De Soto
CHRYSLER
‘GSQ » MOTORS
PRODUCT
s
D 4 7 1
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales .. Grenville Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Victoria Automobiles Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland .... Stradbroke Motors, Ltd., Brisbane
South Australia .... Dominion Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
West Australia Wentworth Motors, Ltd., Perth
New Zealand . New Zealand Motors, Ltd., Wellington
T asmania
Metro Motors PtyLtd., Hobart


PEAPES
Oak Barrel
of
100 “Corella”
High Quality
Virginia
Cigarettes,
20/-
—an ideal gift for
the smoker.
George Streets
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
aS S?TH6
LEADS Tnt tKe
Snffi ■•*«< o?u. «-•
K“con.truc ; °» « EASIEST »'
excellence. « lo operate—du^
j raW s in » ir ?' T he inner bign
nra , s t r okes. * , rest.
downward er doeS the
pressure Y Manufacture •
Patentees (in . nW ro & 88-®* ■
procurable 1 jjouses. •
Will fully inflate the average motor tyre in
one minute.
/ THE
RENRUT
QUADRUPLE
Price, 45/-
(With Gauge,
5/- extra.')
If unable to obtain
write to our I acton *
Representative •
JOHN ARNOLD.
G-P.O. Box 71, Mel
bourne, Australia.
\
m
The
Rabbit
may have good cause for
dejection owing to the
label he sees. But the
Skin
Owner
has
a different viewpoint. He wants top values for his
consignments. He knows that the use of a Winch-
combe Carson label results in the realisation of that
objective. For highest market prices
CONSIGN RABBIT, FOX AND OTHER SKINS TO
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
Winchcombe House, or 99-101 Eagle St.,
Bridge St., Sydney,
Brisbane.
“Lapin”: “Eureka’s” cyclopedia discovery
that it takes 4,000,000 strands of common
spider’s web to equal the thickness of a
human hair is quite right—and also quite
wrong. Every thread in a web, though it
OUT OF HIS LINE.
THE CLUB BORE: “Did I ever tell you the story about the lady-
hairdresser and the tram conductor?”
THE CLUB CYNIC: “Is it a long one?”
THE CLUB BORE: “No.”
THE CLUB CYNIC: “Then you never told it to me.”
looks solid, is composed of thousands of
incredibly minute filaments twisted together.
These filaments are what is referred to ; the
completed thread is a different matter. I’ve
never heard of spiders’ webs being used for
bootlaces, but I have ridden through the
m.ulga country on Thylungra station
(W.Q.) with a stick, breaking down spider
webs until I had a wad of what looked
like raw yellow silk, and I have then twisted
this into a cracker for my stockwhip, and
have seen that cracker outlast several made
from crochet cotton.
“Murkah”: In reply to “F.H.A.” (B.
13/11/’29), who refuses to accept my story
of Leichhardt’s end at the Comet River
camp, may I say that my explanation is
obviously the likeliest ending to a party led
by Leichhardt. On the previous expedition,
mentioned by “F.li’.A.,” his camp was
attacked by natives and one man speared to
death. The whole party had gone to bed!
After Leichhardt left McPherson’s station
on the Coogoon in April, 1848,
his movements were shadowed
in mystery. Therefore
“F.H.A.’s” statement that the
Comet River camp could not
have been made on this trip is
mere assertion. Admittedly, the
Landsborough trees were not
marked till 1861. But Leich-
hardt search parties were mis-
led by them for years after-
wards, and searched for his end
in country the lost explorer
never saw. Gold-rushing miners
are interested in gold, not in
hunting for traces of vanished
explorers, of whom it is ex-
tremely unlikely they ever
heard. In 1858 Leichhardt’s
fate concerned nobody but his
relatives. No effort was made
to let the public know what dis-
coveries had been made and the
overland telegraph wasn’t yet in
existence. The party which
made the discoveries mentioned
in my par. was hunting for
sheep-country. That their names
have slipped into the mists is
not surprising; the personnel of
Leichhardt’s party is unknown.
Apart from the leader the only
scrap of information concern-
ing them is that one was said
to be experienced in shipwreck!
Carl Schmallfust was in the
employ of Sir M. C. O’Connell.
In his application to Judge Mil-
ford in 1858 for power to
administer his uncle’s estate,
the blacks’ statement that one
man had camped apart from the
rest was treated as corrobora-
tive evidence and the applica-
tion was granted. Schmallfust departed soon
afterwards on the Sapphire, but was killed
by natives on Raine Island, Torres Strait.
He H* ❖
“Pick”: Our splitting operations in Nun-
nick forest (N.S.W.) were suspended whilst
we observed the behavior of a goanna on
the flat below. With head held high he
shambled across the clearing, sniffing the air
and glancing from side to side. With slow
creeping steps, but nimbly sidestepping when
there was any wind
movement in the
grass beside him,
he searched the tus-
socks and thickets.
Suddenly stiffening
he halted a moment
to reconnoitre, then
hunched himself
and bounded yards
through the air.
Dead leaves and
dust whirled aloft
and there was a
flurry in the grass
like a miniature
whirlwind. Bram-
bles and bracken
waved and crackled.
From their midst
bounced a coiled-
up mass like an
oversize in foot-
balls. Then two
forms lengthened
out, threshing the
earth, and we saw
that our goanna
had a neck-hold on
a four-foot copper-
head. The snake
for a time exhibit-
ed the greater
strength. He spun
his attacker up-
ward and beat him
upon the ground,
but he couldn’t
break that strangle-
hold, and gradu-
ally the long-un’s
contortions weak-
ened. We gave the
victor three cheers
as he re-traversed the glade with his enemy
in tow, and we decided that a goanna can
scent a snake over quite a long distance.
h* * * *
“Copabella”: Some of these yarns about
lost people walking in circles may have au
explanation as simple as my circling adven-
ture had. I was wallaby-trapping on a
Itiverina station and was camped a long
way from the ridge where the traps were
laid. This entailed a tramp across feature-
less country, in which the sole landmark was
a line of fence. The right bearing to make
trap-line or camp was a bee-line to the
fence to strike it at right-angles, a walk
along the fence for so many panels, and
then another right-angle walk after crossing
the fence line. One day I found a big Too
hung in the wire of the fence, and stayed
to kill and skin him. Resuming my journey,
it was soon apparent that I was not in
anything resembling the trap-line country;
THE GENUINE ARTICLE.
PLANTER: “Kai-kai out of a tin to-night again, I suppose?”
HOUSE BOY: “No, Taubada. Cookie hearem you alia time say, you fed-up along tinned
dog, so he bin catchem proper-fella dog along village fo’ kai."
in short, I was bushed. After making sev-
eral vain casts to regain the track, I was
getting properly panicky when a thrice-
blessed tent came into view. Our camp!
Through the distraction of the Too encoun-
ter I had omitted to get through the fence,
and, in taking the new bearing from there,
had walked back the way I had come. It
is noteworthy that you feel just as lost
groping home as you would padding hope-
lessly into the sunset.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Anybody passing under the plane-
trees in Russell-street, Melbourne, these days
is liable to hear the voice of a kookaburra
raised in uncontrollable mirth. A pair
which moved into a ventilator on the face
of an old building a few weeks ago have
lately become the parents of a brood, and
every evening after feeding-time they fly to
a neighboring flagpole and boast about it, as
if Marie Stopes had never lived.
sis * * *
“Boron” : Despite the careful watch that
is kept for them by the Customs authorities
a fair number of the prohibited bird-of-
pavadise plumes find their way into Aus-
tralia from New Guinea, the bulk of them
coming from the
Mandated Terri-
tory. In Sydney
recently I saw _ a
dozen plumes, in-
cluding one blue
and two red ones,
which had been
obtained near
Eitape, on the
border of the
Dutch Territory,
where the birds are
still plentiful. The
man who had
smuggled them in
reckoned that he
would have no diffi-
culty in disposing
of them at good
prices, ■which actu-
ally he did within
a few days. The
puzzle, however, is what the purchasers do
with the plumes. They dare not wear them
in public, f*r the feathers are liable to con-
fiscation on sight.
“Cedilla”: The station manager who
ordered girls by the _ half-ton reminds me of
a somewhat similar joke played by a western
N.S.W. squatter. New out-buildings were to
be built at the station, and the boss sent
the timber order to a friend of his, the
owner of the sawmill in town. As an after-
thought, and because a social was to take
place in a few days, he added “50ft. pretty
girls” to the list. Great was his surprise
when the timber man arrived at the dance
escorted by 10 fair maidens. To carry on
the jest the sawmiller added the item to
the bill charging five shillings per foot. When
the cheque arrived he was amazed to see
that it was for the full amount. Jumbuck
later told him that he hadn’t troubled to
read the details of the bill; and when a
refund was forced on him, being generous as
he was gay, he donated the money to the
local hospital.
* * * *
“Hayband”: I have reason to believe that
trees don’t carry marks up at any stage.
At Rooty Hill (N.S.W.) over 40 years ago
a sapling was incorporated in a fence. At
long intervals the rails have been shortened,
as the tree increased in girth. In the original
mortised holes they are as level as the day
they were first placed there.
s|s ■ # $ *
“Larrapinta”: There’s money in abo.
relics, if you know how to tell the difference
between stuff made with stone tools and
"AND NOW, YOU BRUTE, I’M GOING HOME TO
MOTHER!”
the modern mission-station abos.’ made-to-
sell boomerangs and clubs. A friend of mine
sent some stuff to England, and has just
received the account sale and money-order.
Here’s the prices: Two stone tomahawks
555. and 375. 6d. respectively; three boomer-
angs, 155., 12s. 6d., 17s. 6d.; two spear-
tlirowers, £1 a piece; two bull-roarers, 80s.
a piece; six spear-heads, 7s. 6d. a piece.
And my friend gave 255. for the lot at an
Adelaide auction.
THE RETURN OF THE WHALERS TO
HOBART (FEB. 19, 1929.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sailors in the fo’c’s'le sang an old Nor-
wegian song;
The billows slushing past the port were
like the beat of rain;
The north wind through the ratlines screamed
—its blasts were fierce and strong;
And north we beat into its teeth—north
—sailing home again !
Four months we’d had of ceaseless work,
four months of blood and cold;
We’d chased the blue whale down the sea
past icy peak and dome
Where floating castles drifted north, and
youthful hearts were old
With weariness—with weariness—and we
were coming home.
The waves fell down upon the deck, great
mounds of tumbling green;
They foamed along the alleyways, a mill
race swift and strong.
The salt upon the lookout’s cheek stung bitter
hard and keen,
But sailors in the fo’c’s’le sang an old
Norwegian song.
There were plates all sprung and leaking,
there was water in the hold;
We were passing baling buckets, for the
forehead pumps were choked;
And the seas were breaking o’er us, southern
seas and bitter cold ;
But we laughed to feel their stinging, and
the meanest of us jo^ed.
For the land was drawing nearer —and the
lips we meant to kiss,
The flowers and friends and firesides that
we knew would cheer us home.
And there followed quiet waters, and a
sound we could not miss,
The rattle and the crashing of the shore-
ward-driving foam,
The lighthouse redly gleaming and the river’s
soft embrace, \
The distant lights of welcome we had
waited for so long,
The feeling of the land breeze warm and
soothing on the face—
The sailors in the fo’c’s’le sang an old
Norwegian song.
VANCOUVER, B.C.
NEIL SMITH.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Pensioned Digger wants typing. Not an expert,
but exceedingly careful. Accustomed to handling
M 55.—3496.
Returned soldier (single), first-class chef , baker
and pastrycook, wants job station homestead,
hospital or institution, N.S.W. Refs.—3s96.
Station bookkeeper (42), certificated, ret. soldier,
tutor, stationhand, seeks bookkeeping. Any State.
—3544.
Man (23), Vic., well educated, five years’ exp.
stock; can drive car, truck or steam-engine and
keep books; wants job on station anywhere. Refs.
—3547.
Young lady, Sydney, wants typing. Used to
manuscripts. Moderate charges.—3s69.
Lady (teacher of domestic science), Sydney, would
give her services during summer vacation in ex-
change for accommodation and nominal salary, sea-
side or mountain guest-house.—3ssB.
Young man (20), with literary experience, phy-
sically strong, wants j0b.—3545.
To get in touch with agents or local makers of
machinery for making artificial stone. —3536.
Bullocky (33), ret. soldier; tank-sinking, all
station work; wife (two children) experienced
needlewoman, sewing, light duties or nursery
governess; go anywhere north of Murrumbidgee.
—3510.
Offers invited for working of 20-square-mile lease,
four miles from Cooktown, N. Q’land. —3590.
Man (35), S.A., wants position on station as
book- and store-keeper, or would go to the Islands.
Refs.—3so7.
Young man (23), four years’ clerical experience,
wants job of any kind in N.T. or Islands.—3s26.
Gentlewoman, over 50, with pet sheep-dog, wants
single car trip, Melbourne to Urana or Oaklands,
middle February. Will share expenses.—3s43.
To purchase textbooks on Italian language.—34B4.
To buy “Opal Fires,” “Children’s Encyclopaedia” ;
“Cashel Byron’s Profession,” “Quintessence of
Ibsenism” and “Unsocial Socialist,” by Shaw. Con-
dition and price.—3486.
To buy plaster cast of a head suitable as model
for sketching. Quote price including freight to
Cairns.—3sls.
To buy copies of Aussie containing serial, “The
Casual Australian,” by Henry Lawson. Is. per
c0py.—3495.
To buy “Joy-book,” by Hummerston. —3584.
To borrow September number of Akt in New
Zealand and the “New Zealand Artists’ Annual,
1929,” or will hire and pay all expenses.—3sol.
To exchange Browning automatic rifle and No. 0
Kodak for banjo, mandolin or ukulele. —3550.
Young man, Sydney, wishes to join debating
society, northern side of harbor preferred.—3s93.
American ex-soldier would like to correspond with
Diggers who were at or near St. Mihiel (France)
during the war. (To H. J. Millin, 4721 Magnolia-
avenue, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.)
English gentlewoman (30), isolated, wishes to
correspond with readers in Q’land or Islands. —3589.
Words of songs “The Three-leaved Shamrock of
Glenore” and “In the Luggage-van Ahead.”—3s33.
Information Sought.
Banks are allowing a discount on English
cheques. (1) Why? (2) How is the rate
of exchange fixed? (3) What, caused), the
recent crash in New York? —3s7l.
(1) Australia is not exporting enough
to pay for its imports plus its interest and
other commitments. Therefore anyone who
has money coming to him in England can
sell it at more than face value; and any-
body who has to pay in England has to pay
up to 355. per cent, to get the use of the
money there promptly. (2) By supply and
demand. The associated banks fix a price
here, but there are many variations from it.
(3) Heavy borrowing to buy stocks on cover
deposit; a rather sudden call for the money
lent to the selling brokers; selling by the
brokers to obtain this money—and then the
market came tumbling in on itself.
I am the holder of a participating insur-
ance policy for £2OO, terminating in Decem-
ber, 1938, premium £7 6s. per annum. I
desire to pay all premiums note, and the co.
offers to accept £55 Bs. On what interest
basis is that offer made, and would it be
more advantageous to pay premiums yearly?
—3064.
The interest basis is a shade under Si
per cent. If the policy insures your life
you are gambling on your longevity in mak-
ing payment now. If it doesn’t, the value
of the bargain depends on the extent to
which you participate in bonuses.
What guarantees and other conditions are
required by the V.R.O. for the registration of
bookmakers? —34B2.
An applicant must be guaranteed by a
licensed bookmaker, as to the paddock ring
for £lOOO, for the hill ring £5OO, and for the
flat ring £250. For the private information
of the club the applicant must disclose his
financial position, verified by bank pass-
book or other satisfactory evidence.
(1) Where is chartreuse made, what is
its composition and is it obtainable in Syd-
ney? (2) Where is trappistine made, and
where can it be bought in Sydney? (3)
Books which give a description of both
wines? —3422.
(1) Chartreuse is made by Carthusian
monks at Tarragona, Spain. Balm . leaves,
orange peel, hyssop, peppermint, etc., and
various spices are said to be used in its
manufacture. Of the three qualities, green,
yellow and white, the first is the most
valued. Orme, Keigwin and Co., Ltd., 269
George-street, Sydney, are the N.S.W. agents.
(2) Trappistine is a liqueur made by a
French Trappist Monastery. So far as we
can trace it is not retailed in Sydney. (3)
“Wine and the Wine Lands of the World,”
by Frank Hedges Butler, and “Notes on a
Cellar Book,” by George Saintsbury.
How to distinguish a male pawpaw-tree
from a female before the flowers put in an
appearance? —334s.
The only guide is the fact that the weak-
ling plants almost invariably prove to be
females and the strong plants males.
(1) Does the Irish Free State maintain
an army? (2) How are recruits enlisted?
(3) Strength of army? —3s3s.
(1) Yes. (2) Enlistment is voluntary.
The normal term of service for infantry is
one to three years in the active army and
six years in the reserve; for other corps five
years in the active army and seven in the
reserve. (3) Eight hundred and nine officers
and 9513 other ranks.
(1) Does Canada enforce an annual immi-
gration quota, from Australia? (2) What
are the age, health, occupational and finan-
cial qualifications necessary for a British
male person desiring to migrate to Canada?
—3323.
(1) No. (2) No restriction as to age.
Migrants must be of good health and char-
acter and possess at least £5O on landing.
What is a brass otho? It occurs in the
following passage by Macaulay: “But, to
Frederick William, this huge Irishman icas
what a brass otho or a vinegar Bible is to
a collector of a different kind.” —2472.
Marcus Salvius Otho was Roman Emperor
a.d. 68-69. He reigned but 80 days, and, so
far as is now known, issued only gold and
silver coins. Nevertheless antiquaries hope
that a deposit of brass coins of this emperor
may yet be discovered.
How to cleanse muddy water? —29B3.
Use lime in the proportion of lib. to 1000
gallons of water.
llow to make a good soldering paste flux?
—3434.
In a pot over a slow fire melt together
5 parts of olive oil and 4 parts of tallow.
Stir in slowly parts of powdered resin
and let the whole lot boil up at once. Then
let it cool and add 1J parts of saturated
solution of sal ammoniac. When cold it will
be ready for use.
Did the Brucc-Page Government pay off
any war debt or receive any indemnity dur-
ing the 6J years it was in office? —3272.
The war debt was reduced by £45,276,089
during the period July 1, 1922, and June 30,
1929. During the period 1924-25 to 1928-29
(both years inclusive) the Reparation
moneys credited to the National Debt Sink-
ing Fund Account amounted to £3,429,369.
Outline of the legend of Pelleas and
Melisande? —3360.
The legend is best known through its
dramatisation by Maeterlinck and Debussy’s
opera on that libretto. According to that
version Melisande is found wandering in
the forest, her memory gone, save that she
dimly recollects she once wore a crown, by
Goland, a grandson of King Ariel. Goland
marries her and takes her to (Court, where
lie neglects her for the hunt. Pelleas,
Goland’s half-brother, falls in love with her,
and his love is returned. Goland upbraids
the lovers, who decide to part. At their
last interview the jealous Goland kills Pel-
leas. and after the birth of her child, Meli-
sande also dies. It is a variant of the legend
of Tristan and Isolde and other Nordic
sagas of forbidden and hopeless love that
leads to death.
How to get rid of meat-eating ants? —
3478.
Pour 3oz. to 4oz. of carbon bisulphide
down each ant-hole and cover over with
damp earth. The gas given off is very
explosive, so keep away from naked lights.
I wish to sue a man for arrears of rent.
(1) Must summons be served on him per-
sonally, or may it be served to his wife? (2)
Must summons be served between hours of
sunrise and sunset? (3) Is it necessary to
give him time to enter a defence? —3420.
(1) Small Debts Recovery Act (N.S.W.)
provides that an ordinary summons may be
served either personally or to wife or servant
at defendant’s usual place of abode. (2) No
statutory limitation, but it i s usual to serve
in day time. (3) The time is named in body
of ordinary summons, but in case of default
summons is limited to 10 days after personal
service or, where not personal, to 14 days.
(1) Has it been proved that artificial silk
can be manufactured from any of the Aus-
tralian woods? (2) Have any steps been
taken to establish such an industry here? (3)
Where can results of investigations on the
subject in Australia be consulted ?•—3316.
(1) On a laboratory scale, yes. (2) Samples
of sulphite pulp made, from Australian euca-
lypt timber have been sent to England, and
arrangements made with several firms to have
small portions of the pulp examined, from
the point of view of its suitability as a
raw material for the manufacture of artifi-
cial silk. The results of these examinations
were favorable. (3) In the Bulletin of the
Imperial Institute (Vol. XXVII, No. 1,
1929, pages 1-9).
Your answer to 2481 ( B. 30/10/’29) means
that a ton of metallic tin is worth to the
producer in Australia £l7l 13s. Ad. when
the metal stands at £192 in London—the
difference between Australian and London
value being £2O 16s. B d. Smelting and refin-
ing, which is practically one process, and a
very simple one, can account for but a small
proportion of this difference. Are any Aus-
tralian figures available as to this or realisa-
tion charges? What is the price of metallic
tin to the Australian consumer? —34BS.
The present Txmdon quotation for tin ore
is 325. per unit, and for metallic tin
£lBO 2s. 6d. The tin in the ore is thus
bought at the rate of £l6O, the difference of
£2O 2s. 6d. covering smelting charges, smelt-
ing losses and buyers’ profit. The smelting
charges are. governed to some extent by the
class of ore, and can only be determined by
submitting a parcel of ore to a smelting
firm. The sale of metallic tin in Australia
is comparatively small, and the price of the
metal to consumers is based on the London
forward market plus a premium, which is
determined by the demand.
(1) What is the extent of mining opera-
lions at Captain’s Flat (N.S.W.)? (2) Flow
many men are employed, and will the num-
ber be increased in the near future? (3) Is
there a mill in operation or under construc-
tion ?■ —3442.
(1) Prospecting operations which have
been carried on during the last two or three
years show that the lode must be classed
among the big lead-zinc deposits of the
world. (2) At the present time about 100
men are employed. The question of con-
structing a railway from Buugendore to
Captain’s Flat is now under consideration by
the Government. In the event of the rail-
way being commenced, the co. proposes to at
once commence the construction of a very
large treatment plant, and the number of
men employed will be considerably increased.
(3) A small pilot concentrating plant treat-
ing up to 00 tons a day is in operation.
(1) What is the difference between Tibou-
china and Lasiandra? (2) What is the
derivation of Anigozanthos ( kangaroo’s
paw), a wild flower of Westralia? —2402.
(1) Tibouchina and Lasiandra are names
referring to the same plant genus. In past
times they were used by different botanists
when describing the same plants. The genus
Tibouchina was established in 1775, and,
being the older, should, according to the rules
of botanical nomenclature, be used in modern
catalogues instead of Lasiandra. (2) From
“anoigo,” to expand, and “anthos,” flower,
in reference to the development of the flowers
in the inflorescence.
We are using ordinary milkeans for the
transportation of our rubber in liquid form,
and to prevent premature coagulation we
use a small quantity of sodium sulphite
( anhydrous ). The addition causes the cans
to corrode. Can the corrosion be prevented,
and is there any simple method whereby the
cans in which corrosion has already started
may be re-tinned? —3208.
The best way of overcoming the trouble
would be to coat the cans with aluminium,
applied by the Schoop process of spraying
on the molten metal.
What is the tallest office building in Syd-
ney and its height? Is there a city build-
ing regulation limiting height? —33l2.
A number of buildings have been erected
to the maximum height allowed under the
Heights of Buildings Act 1912 —150 feet
from the street level of the ceiling of the
topmost floor of the building. There is no
objection to towers being erected on build-
ings, as in the case of the towers on St.
James’s Offices, Elizabeth-street, and the
State Shopping Block, Market-street, Sydney.
Books dealing with (1) Cocoanut plant-
ing? (2) Coffee planting? (3) Cocoa plant-
ing? (4) Tropical agriculture? (5) Sisal
hemp? (6) Where obtainable? —3472.
(1) “The Cocoanut,” by E. B. Copeland
(255.) ; “Practical Guide to Cocoanut Plant-
ing,” by Mimro and Brown (195.) ; “The
Cocoanut Palm,” by H. C. Sampson
(38s. 6d.) ; and “Cocoanuts,” by H. H. Smith
and F. A. G. Pope (165.). (2) “Coffee,” by
E. A. Cheney. (3) “Cocoa: Its Cultiva-
tion and Preparation,” by Johnson. (4)
“Tropical Gardening and Planting,” by
H. F. Macmillan (455.). (5) “Survey of
Sisal Cultivation and Production,” published
by Arizona Uni., U.S.A. (6) Angus and
Robertson or Dymocks, Sydney.
Description of Brisbane’s coat of arms and
meaning of motto? Where can a sketch of
the coat of arms be seen? —3572.
The city of Brisbane for the last 50 years
has used the following devices in a shield,
also on the civic seal, uncolored: In the first
quarter a horse standing, an ox and two
sheep lying down; in the second, a settler
standing with a spade in his left hand, be-
hind him a plough, and in front on the
right a sheaf of wheat; in the third a paddle-
wheel steamer approaching the land, behind
on the right a lighthouse; and in the fourth
part of a sailing-ship at a wharf, on which
are barrels, boxes and bales marked “wool.”
in the foreground an anchor. The motto
added in 1903 is “Conjunctis viribus” (with
united strength). A reproduction of the
coat of arms appears on page 438, vol. 2,
“Australian Encyclopaedia.”
(1) Do any miners in the northern dis-
trict ( N.S.W .) earn more than £lO ner
week? (2) Do any own racehorses? —3198.
(11 Yes, more particularly in the Mait-
land section. (2) There are several known
instances.
How to enamel a sheet-iron bath? —3l9o.
Clean down to the bare metal and apply
one coat of aluminium paint, allowing to
dry at least 24 hours; then apply one coat
bath enamel undercoating, allowing to dry
24 hours, followed by a coat of bath enamel
finishing, which must be allowed to dry for
48 hours, when the bath may be filled with
cold water and let stand for 12 hours, which
will assist in the hardening off. Hot water
should not be used in the bath for at least
48 hours after the finishing coat is hard.
(1) Would a person without experience
find it difficult to secure a position as a
ship’s steward? (2) To what department of
the Union Steamship Co. should I apply?
(3) Wages? (4) Any other jobs open with
the co. for a novice? —3502.
(1) Yes, because there are a number of
experienced stewards waiting for positions.
(2) Stores Department, Sussex-street, Syd-
ney. (3) Under 20 years, £6 to £lO per
month according to age; over 20 years, £l4
as second-grade steward. (4) No.
How to polish old brass ornaments that
have become discolored? —3475.
Sift some fine wood ashes, and add the
same quantity of whiting to the sifted ashes.
Mix to a paste with ammonia, a few drops
of kerosene and a small quantity of methy-
lated spirits. Rub and work this into the
deep parts of the brass with a short-haired,
stubby brush. If very dirty, several appli-
cations will be necessary. Finish off with
a final rubbing,of whiting and ammonia,
leave till dry, brush off and rub up with
a woollen cloth. If the brass is of the
Benares type, wash it well in hot suds first,
and remove as much dirt with a brush as
possible before applying the cleaner.
Brief Answers.
J.M.M.: The revaluation of Q’land soldier
settlers’ indebtedness is being considered by a
special board in those cases where the settleis
obtained advances under the Discharged Soldiers
Settlement Acts. Apply Revaluation Board,
Agricultural Bank, Brisbane.... H.G.: The book has
no value. .. .W.E.T.: Peacocks are always more 01
less noisy during the summer months, and nothing
can be done to stop their screeching. .. . 8.C.C.: As
far as practicable N.S.W. Home Maintenance
Area Boards will interview soldier settlers on theii
farms. Boards commenced operations about end of
October N.R.L.: “Vegetable Growing in N.5.W.,”
by A. J. Finn and R. N. Makin (2s. Bd.,
post free), Govt. Printer, Phillip-street, Sydney..••
T.P.: Kairi is the name of a railway station near
Cairns (Q.). It is the native name for Mazlin
Creek N.D.: The field is somewhat overcrowded
at present and is not easy to break into without
an intensive training beforehand. Suggest you
undertake a course of study at the Sydney Technical
College. .. .P.A.J.: There is no set scale. It is a
matter for agreement between the parties. .. .J. 8.:
(1) Seventy to 75 pounds. (2) Apart from a surgical
operation, which can be satisfactorily performed only
by a vet., we know of no means by which a tough
cow can be made to milk easily... .Eglen: A grease
interceptor should prevent the accumulation....
J.P.T.: (1) Swain and Co., 123 Pitt-street, Sydney,
stock it at 2s. 6d. per copy. (2) A. P. Barncastle,
41 Q.V. Building, George-street, Sydney. (3) The
law prohibits us giving information regarding sweeps
conducted outside N. S. Wales. .. .R.A.8.: (1)
America declared war on Germany on April 6, 1917.
(2) Upon the declaration of war volunteers were
called for, but on May 18 the Selective Service Act
was passed, which provided for the enlistment of
men by selective drafts. (3) At the date of the
Armistice there were in Europe 2,071,403 American
soldiers and 1,034,499 in encampment in U.S.A.
(4) Compulsory military service was not enforced
in Ireland J.C.M.K.: If the death occurred in
northern Ireland, ask Registrar of Probates, Supreme
Court, Belfast, or if in the Irish Free State, the
Registrar of Probates, Supreme Court, Dublin....
E.P.: Houdini did not reveal his method
of breaking away from chains, etc., except
that he put it down to having acquired a supreme
control of even the most minute muscles in his
body... .H. 8.: Apparently you did not dissolve the
partnership but still remain a partner, and are
therefore both jointly and severally liable for the
partnership debts. The arrangement made between
you and your partner solely would not affect the
rights of the creditors against the partnership....
Timbuctoo: (1) Power to enter to take gravel is
given under the N.S.W. Local Government Act 1919,
and it is provided that for such material as may
be taken compensation shall be made, which may
be “a gross sum or a rent.” No mention of
compensation at so much per cubic yard is made.
(2) The assessment of value rests with the Council.
(3) It may take as much or as little as it thinks
fit. Sec. 581 of the Act provides that where com-
pensation may be claimed the claim “may by agree-
ment between the Council and the person claiming
such compensation” be referred to arbitration....
D. : Write Govt. Tourist Bureau, Challis House,
Martin-place, Sydney R.S.: Write Lawrence
Smith and Son, 109 Bathurst-street, and A. G.
Healing, Ltd., 208 Castlereagh-street—both Sydney.
. ...A.C.: Both answers were correct; 1650 ft.
is the length of the main span and 1520 ft. the
actual length over water... . W.H.: Carramar (“shade
of trees”), Kareelah (“south wind”), Tallawalla
(“forest country”). Ullamulla (“white gum-trees”).
. ...Oro: In the past goldmining was extensively
carried out in the parish of Munderoo, and water-
courses such as Munderoo, Sandy and Crawley’s
Creeks might be tried by a prospector with reason-
able hopes of small earnings... .F.S.F.: Quite a
good gamble. Few new enterprises are more than
that; this one, being far afield, carries even more
than average risks.... Son: But Uncle Sam still
holds their bills, doesn’t he? The movement of
gold is the best evidence as to whether Uncle did
well or not... .C.8.P.: It costs £4 to join the
Stewards’ Union. At present hundreds of stewards
are unemployed and the chances of you securing a
position are small. .• .E.T.: .If the householder is a
lessee and makes default in payment of rent, then,
should the landlord distrain, your car may be
seized. Your only protection is to insist on the
production of rent receipts by the person from
which yon rent the garage E.T.: (1) Apply
Dept, of Lands, Perth. (2) Information Bureau,
Dept, of Lands, Sydney, will furnish particulars. (3)
Land along the Q’land border adjacent to the Kyogle-
Brisbane railway line is within Rosebery and
Wiangerie State forests and is not available for
selection. A portion of Wiangerie State forest may
be revoked at a later date and made available for
selection. .. .G.K.: (1) The name of Dr. H. W.
Cooper does not appear in the current issue of the
N.S.W. Medical Register. (2) Dr. E. E. Pitman,
183 Macquarie-street, Sydney. ...V.S.: Fibrolysin
is the trade-name of a preparation of a chemical
substance known as thiosinamine, consisting of
colorless crystals with a faint garlic odor and a
bitter taste. It is used in hastening the absorption
of scar-tissue, as in lupus and other skin-diseases,
and is administered hypodermically in a 10 per
cent, solution of glycerinated water... .A.T.: The
Danish Consul at Capetown in 1910 and 1911 was
E. Laurvig, and in 1912 J. P. Vogt. .. .Anxious: In
such cases the captain is the supreme authority.
A tactful skipper consults his fellow players....
C.H.C.: Write to Dept, of Agriculture, Sydney, for
“Dingoes: Their Destruction and Control”... .F.C.:
If the money was vested in trustees for the specific
purposes of buying land and erecting a hall, it
cannot be diverted to any other purpose. The
promoters of the carnival are apparently responsible
to the trustees for the proper use of the money
and should consult them as to its disposal....
8.5. F.: Still a bit of a gamble. Your best course
is to have inquiries made through your bankers.
. ...A.G.: The gross public debt of the Union
of S’Africa at March 31, 1928, was £238,926,064
and the net debt £223,232,810 U.S. : Doubt
whether the articles could be sold to American
journals, but you could try Bird Lore, 29 West
32nd-street, New York; and Nature Magazine, 1214
Sixteenth-street, N.W., Washington, D.C C.C.:
Get in touch with the Metropolitan Meat Industry
Board, 1 Richmond-terrace, Domain, Sydney....
H.J.T.: “Rice,” by E. B. Copeland (255.), obtain-
able from Angus and Robertson, Sydney. N.S.W.
Dept, of Agriculture issues gratis a small pamphlet
on rice growing.... G.D.: N.S.W. country residents
can borrow reference books from the Public Library
of N.S.W. (Country Reference Section), Sydney.
The books are forwarded by post and are lent free
but return postage must be paid by the borrower.
Further particulars from Chief Librarian... .J.M.D.:
The qualifications of a wine taster are attained in
many years of experience in the business. Tasters
are not employed solely as such E.P.: (1) Rather a
gamble than a “sound investment.” (2) For prac-
tical purposes it doesn’t matter. (3) Very doubtful.
G.R.P.: (1) Fair. (2) Not yet. (3) Yes.
(4) No. (5) No; the risk is worth more than that.
....(Many others mailed.)


m
9
mm
m
uo
COtICQPW' /
'on/
The Cm
with the HOLDEN Body
Cost Less
IF" Because
the first cost is less
and satisfactory service longer
than with the imported body.
Holden bodies are designed and built
to serve faithfully under Australian
conditions. No other Australian
body manufacturer can offer
equal quality.
Holden organization and
resources stand alone
in Australia and are
comparable only
with the World’s
leading body
, Plant
Prove Holden
Quality by *
Comparison/
MOTOR BUILDERS
LIMITED
Adelaide , Melbourne Sydney c. Brisbane
A


WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
' '
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most-up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydney!
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
Sydney Grammar School.
Day and Boarding School for Boys.
Applications for prospectus or interview should be made,
by letter to the Head Master, as early as possible. New term
begins 4th February, 1930.
Special features are the Preparatory Form, for boys of
9 to 12, in its own self-contained building and grounds, and
the New School House, with excellent accommodation for
60 boarders
Early application is desirable.
Headmaster: H. S. DETTMANN, M.A., B.C.L.
Chairman oj Trustees: SIR MUNGO MacCALLUM, K.C.M.G., M.A.,
LL.D., D.Litt.
THE
Farmers 8 Settlers
Co-operative Insurance
Co. of Australia, Ltd.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL,
£250,000
Fire, Accident, Marine, Motor-car,
Workers’ Compensation, Growing
Crops, Stacks, Wool, Fencing.
SPECIALISING IN INSURANCE
FOR THE MAN ON THE LAND
ACTIVE AGENTS REQUIRED
WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
N.S.W. Office:
Wingelo House, Angel Place, Sydney
F. D. POWELL, Manager.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CR PARK & CASTLEREAGH. STS SYDNEY
MORE PRIZES FOR FARMERS.
In order to encourage farmers to pass
on to others the fruits of their observa-
tion ,and experience, “The Bulletin” will
give three prizes for the most helpful
contributions during the six months to
Dec. 31 next.
Points will be awarded for every con-
tribution submitted, if thought worthy and
whether printed or not, and two prizes—
the first of £25 and the second of £lo—
be given to the winners of most
points.
A special prize of £5 will be given for
the best individual contribution.
Only contributions that are of practical
value to men on the land are asked for;
literary merit is not taken into account, so
long as the meaning is expressed plainly.
The prizes are in addition to the ordi-
nary payments made for all “Bulletin”
contributions.
«
SAVE THE COCKY CHAFF.
“Yeoman” : The wheat crops of thousands
of farmers in N.S.W., Vic. and S.A. will
be a partial or complete failure this harvest,
and hay will be very scarce. It is already
at drought prices, and may soar still higher.
This will constitute a serious problem for
growers at seeding time, more particularly
where supplies have to be bought.
The position can be relieved considerably
by farmers attaching chaff-carriers to their
harvesters to save the cocky chaff. It can
be dumped in rows and should be collected
every day and put into a chaff shed, or into
a wire-netting enclosure and covered with
straw.
It will pay, too, to rake and cart cereal
straw in a season like this. Straw from a
blighted crop is more palatable than that
from a heavy crop. It is particularly valu-
able as a roughage with which concentrates
can be fed. For this purpose it should be
chaffed.
Either cocky chaff or chaff straw can
be used as the bulk feedstuff in the
following daily ration for working horses,
per 10001 b. live-weight: Cocky chaff,
201 b.; bran, 121 b.; molasses, 21b. This
ration would meet the nutritive requirements
of a farm-horse moderately worked. It would
be richer in digestible food units than 361 b. of
wheaten hay (chaffed or otherwise). At
current prices the cocky chaff ration would
cost about lid. per day for bran and
molasses against a cost of approximately 3s.
per day for a ration of 361 b. wheaten hay.
Of course, no account is taken here of the
cost of saving cocky chaff or of chaffed straw.
About 151 b. oats would be a good substi-
tute for bran in making up a balanced ration
with cocky chaff. And at a pinch horses
will do a lot of work on a ration of cocky
chaff and molasses only.
BULK HANDLING OF WHEAT.
“Avon” : Now that the grain-elevator sys-
tem is established throughout N. S. Wales
intelligent farmers are bringing their wheat-
handling appliances into line, so as to get
the fullest benefit. The idea is to eliminate
as far as possible the use of sacks and the
labor connected with bagging. In cases
where it is practicable to take the wheat
direct to the elevator as soon as it is threshed
a box-waggon solves all problems. An ordi-
nary table-top waggon or lorry can be con-
verted into a box-waggon by any man handy
with tools. Three square holes, 9in. x 9in.,
are cut in the top of the waggon, which is
to be the floor of the box. One hole is cut
just behind the front axle; another just in
front of the rear axle, and a third midway
between these two —all along the centre line
of the waggon. These are to provide chutes
for the rapid discharge of the gx-ain. A floor
of 24-gauge sheet-iron is laid, the iron being
wide enough to turn up 3in. along each side,
to hold the sides of the box against the
bursting pressure of the wheat. Holes are
cut in this iron to match those in the top
of the lorry. The sides and ends are framed
up with 3in. x 2in. studs, 2ft. apart, and
braced diagonally at the top corners along
the ends, and across the top from side to
side with iron rods screwed at the ends
to take nuts. The sides and ends of the
box may be made of 6in. by lin. Baltic T. & G.
or of corrugated or plain sheet-iron, laid
inside the studs. Square boxes of sheet-iron
(kerosene-tins would do) are provided to dip
down about 12in. from the chute openings,
the sides being bent outwards at the tops
and riveted to the sheet-iron floor. The
inside of each chute at the bottom is lined
with lin. x 3in. boards to form a bearing
for a trapdoor of sheet-iron which slides
through slots cut in the sides and is held in
place on one side by a J-shaped curving over
of one end of the iron, and on the other by
a nail driven through a hole in the other
end of the trap just big enough to take the
nail shank. When the box-waggon is driven
over the receiving hoppers at the elevator
the traps are withdrawn and the wheat dis-
charges itself by gravity, the small amount
that remains on the floor and in corners
being removed with a simple scraper—a sort
of toothless rake.
F'or storage of wheat on the farm the
granary or silo raised sufficiently high from
the ground to discharge by gravity into the
box-waggon is the best type, though rather
expensive. In its simplest form it is a big
drum-shaped corrugated-iron tank with a
sheet-iron cover. A tank 21ft. diameter, 12ft.
deep, will hold the equivalent of 1000 bags
of wheat. Such granaries are filled by an
“elevator leg”—an endless band on which
are filled small buckets—driven by a small
oil engine. Another form of tank, in favor
with many farmers because it is cheaper and
easier to construct, is set into the ground
for half its depth, the portion underground
being reinforced, between the iron and the
ground, with a coating of concrete.
Finally, if sacks are used, it is cheaper
and quicker to secure them at the mouth
with patent clips or skewers made out of
No. 8 fencing-wire than to sew them with
twine. The skewers are used, two to each
bag, one pushed in from either side so as
to overlap 2in. in the middle. A J-bend
makes a simple handle.
WHAT’S BEST TO DO WITH' STUBBLE
STRAW?
“F.S.A.”; “Tumbe Munda” says (B.
13/11/’29) that the straw to which Pro-
fessor Perkins referred, and which was
analysed, was “the straw of wheat which was
cut, stooked, stacked and threshed according
to European methods.” In the absence of
Prof. Perkins I referred this matter to the
Assistant Director of Agriculture of S.A.
(Mr. W. J. Spafford), one of the best-
informed experts in the Commonwealth. He
advised me that the analyses of cereal straws
quoted by Prof. Perkins were made from
samples of ordinary field or stubble straws
and not from samples of the threshed article.
Practically the only wheat cut, stooked,
stacked and threshed in S.A. was that on the
experimental plots at Roseworthy College.
Mr. Spafford added that in his opinion
ordinary straw was better than threshed
straw —an opinion with which I strongly
agree. When the wheat crop is cut
for threshing the grain is soft, and still has
to mature at the expense of the straw, just
as it does when the crop is left to ripen
before being harvested by the reaper-thresher,
header, or other peculiarly Australian har-
vesting machines.
Of course, stubble straw should be cut or
raked and stacked as soon as possible after
the harvester. According to Professor Per-
kins, wheaten stubble straw, on the basis of
wheaten hay at £5 per ton, is worth
£1 17s. 3d. per ton. Oaten and barley
straws are worth still more.
t I cannot agree with “H’ortus” (B.
13/11/’29) that Australian farmers should
follow the practice of English farmers and
cm: and thresh the wheat crop, notwithstand-
ing that the latter method assures a splendid
reserve of fodder in the threshed straw and
coc-ky chaff. The cost of cutting the crop
with the binder, and stooking, carting, stack-
ing and threshing same, is considerably more
than the expense of taking the grain off with
a 9ft., I,oft. of 12ft. harvester or header. There
would still be a substantial margin in favor
of the. Australian method even if the cost
of saving the cocky chaff and gathering the
straw after the harvester is added.
I must disagree, too, with the statement of
“Ilortus” that burning the stubble is bene-
ficial on account of the potash thus returned
to the soil. Generally speaking, Australian
wheat lands are not deficient in potash and
do not respond to applications of potassic
fertilisers.
My final word on this subject is: Convert
the stubbles to wool, mutton and manure
(including humus) —unless fungoid diseases
necessitate burning same.
FERTILISERS IN W.A.
“Delaware”: The value of artificial fer-
tiliser to potato-growers has been fully
demonstrated by the W.A. Agricultural
Department this season. The trials were
carried out at Benger Swamp, which, while
it possesses a high degree of natural fer-
tility, also responds remarkably well to
moderate applications of combined fertilisers.
As a result of the trials growers are advised
to use 14ewt. superphosphate, 2cwt. sulphate
of potash and sewt. sulphate of ammonia
per acre. Yields as high as 7 tons 15cwt. per
acre have been obtained by the use of this
mixture. Of course, such high yields are
not to be obtained everywhere in the State.
Growers on less fertile land have to be
content with smaller yields.
The value of fertiliser is becoming more
understood and appreciated each year by
dairy-farmers in the clover-growing areas
in this western State. The annual clovers,
such as subterranean and drooping head or
reverse, which form the bulk of the pastures,
germinate with the first rains in May, make
slow but sure headway through the wet
winter months and rapid growth with the
advent of warm weather. Light applications
of from 3cwt. to scwt. super., and in some
cases nitro-super., are enabling many pastures
to carry one cow to every five acres from
August till December, when the clovers
shed their seed and dry off.
The dairying industry has made wonderful
progress during the last few years. In 1919
our production of butter was 2,000,0001 b.;
that figure has risen now to 5,000,0001 b. The
south-western town of Busselton is the centre
for a large dairying district. It was first
settled in 1833 and can now boast nearly
a thousand inhabitants; also an up-to-date
butter factory.
This State’s Group Settlement Dairying
scheme, upon which over £0,000,000 has
been spent, must be credited with quite a
third of the gratifying increase in butter
production, and suggests that it is only a
matter of time and Westralia will be a leader
among the butter-producing countries of the
world.
HARROWS.
“Glenfield”: The remarks of “Yeoman”
(B. 0/11/’29) on the use of the harrows in
fallowing are not applicable to the Mallee.
The observant Mallee cocky has found that
the indiscriminate use of the harrows on
the fallow is injurious; they level the ground
and work it to too fine a tilth, and the pre-
vailing winds during the dry summer months
sweep it away, exposing the carefully pre-
pared seed bed to the heat and sun, with
consequent loss of moisture by evaporation.
The ground on that patch has then to be
worked again with a heavy implement to
form a new mulch.
The method for fallowing now followed is
to use the harrows to break the clods on
the heavier country after ploughing, but on
no account do we harrow the sandhills or
the light country. The subsequent workings
are all done by cross-working with the
spring-tyne cultivator, which leaves the
ground ridgy with small clods, the last work-
ing if possible going north and south, with
the ridges running against the prevailing
westerly winds; this lessens the drift, as the
gutters formed by the implement catch it.
A stroke of the heavy harrows four or
five days after wet sowing is of inestimable
value, particularly so following a dry season
like the present, where the fallow has had a
minimum of working.
I also have found it beneficial to harrow
the young wheat crop after a dry spell, parti-
cularly if a rain follows the operation. When
harrowing a young crop the newchum
driver wants to keep his eyes ahead. If he
looks behind and sees the damage he imagines
he is doing, he will pull straight out of the
paddock.
PHYSICKING THE HORSE.
“Koolonga”: Cures or correctives may be
administered in four ways: (1) through the
mouth, (2) by the rectum, (3) by hypoder-
mic injection into the blood, and (4) through
the skin. The mouth is the simplest, but is
not much use for any but stomach correc-
tives. To give a physic ball the horse should
be gagged, and the ball placed over the back
of the tongue with the hand ; it should be
swallowed in one piece. A tasteless powder
can be placed on the horse’s tongue or dis-
solved in his drinking water. Tasteless
liquids can also be put in the water, but
those that are offensive have to be given as
a drench. To drench a horse raise his head
by a rope run over a beam in the stable roof
and tied to the nose-band of his head-collar;
then pour the liquid down his throat from
a bottle or a boot if you haven’t a proper
implement.
Before treating a horse via the rectum
either place him securely in a crush or rope
him, so that movement is impossible. “Back-
raking” and enemas are the commonest opera-
tions at this end, and are used when a horse
is thoroughly constipated. The operator
must wash his arm thoroughly with hot
water and soap, and then cover his arm
and hand with pure olive oil. The obstruc-
tion is then raked out wfith the fingers. It
may be necessary to reach into the rectum
as far as your elbow, and great gentleness
must be used to avoid injuring the delicate
skin of the rectum. After back-raking a
mixture of warm water and soft soap (at
blood heat) should be injected.
When giving a hypodermic injection first
dip the hair from a spot on the side of
the horse’s neck, wash it with antiseptic,
and when that dries paint it with iodine.
The needle—sterilised, of course—is pushed
through the skin, and run along under it
for about an inch. Then fit the syringe
containing the drug to the needle and
inject the contents. Withdraw the needle
steadily, -and again paint the spot with
iodine. These injections have the advantage
of being easily given, and are of quicker
action than drench or ball. Liniments and
blisters are absorbed through the skin when
applied with friction, but lotions and oint-
ments are used without friction.
CHOOSING YOUR FENCE WIRE.
“Tumbe Munda”: Not only the class of
stock kept but also the class of country
must be considered when ordering wire for
fences. In some of my country, high ground
and sandy soil, I prefer a light steel wire,
as it does not stretch like soft wire. In
other paddocks, where the soil is impreg-
nated with magnesia, I have about six miles
of fencing where it would be foolishness to
put a steel wire. The magnesia eats steel
out in a few years, but seems to have little
effect on soft wire. If big stock are kept,
the top wire, if not a barb, should be at
least No. 8, so that the animals can see it.
Sixty years ago in this district a strand
of lioop-iron was used in place of a top
wire in horse-paddock fences, so that if an
animal were galloping about it would see the
iron and not run into the fences ; but with
closer settlement and tamer stock such
extreme measures became unnecessary.
STRANGLES.
“Bodangora”: Strangles are common
among yearlings and two-year-olds in spring
and early summer, and are very dangerous
when there is little green feed about. They
are very infectious. All suspects should be
at once isolated some distance from the
healthy herd. Relief is often given by clipping
the hair from under the throat and rubbing
the clipped area first with warm vinegar, then
with dry mustard. This nearly always
causes the strangles to break outwardly.
When well pointed, if they are slow in
breaking, lance with a sharp-bladed pocket-
knife. The blade should be held in boiling
water before using. When open, syringe
with solution of iodine. Give green food
or hay damped; while the animal is sick
cut out all chaff and bran. Don’t ball or
drench a strangled horse, on account of diffi-
culty in swallowing. Give plenty of fresh
water. For a physic use the following elec-
tuary : Treacle, lib.; extract of belladonna,
loz.; pot. chlor., 20z.; camphor, With
a wooden spatula put it well back on the
animal’s tongue twice a day. If it is cold
weather rug the patient. Any chemist will
mane up the electuary.
A SIMPLE STRAINER FOR BARBED
WIRE.
“Panton”: Most strainers are made of
iron, and have one fault —where they hook
on to the wire they make a slight impres-
sion, thus rubbing off the surface, which
causes the wire to rust at that spot; and
when it becomes necessary to remove the
wire and re-strain, you have trouble through
the wire breaking. My favorite strainer can
be made in about five minutes. Get a piece
of 4 x 3 hardwood about 4ft. long. About
lOin. from one end bore a ljin. hole about
the centre of your 4in. Then with a hand-
saw cut from one side into the centre of
the hole. Put two cuts so as to allow room
for your wire to drop in. Now from a tough
piece of wood make a round peg to fit the
hole. Round off the other end of your
strainer, and there you are.
To use, pull your wire fairly tight at
your straining post: you will soon be able
to gauge just where you want to put the
strainer. Drop the wire through the cut
into the augur hole; drive the peg in from
the front end (the loose end of the wire).
Drive the peg in hard, put the end of the
strainer behind the post and lever round;
as your slack comes up, work the strainer
round the post.
With this implement you can strain five
or six chains at a time and won’t damage
your wire at all, and you can make a
tighter job than with any other strainer I
have seen. Of course, this is only of, use
in a staple fence; with bored posts the
roller and bar is about the best.
IRRIGATING THE ORCHARD.
“Goulburn”: Don’t over-irrigate! Too
many growers in the irrigation areas depend
almost entirely on the water to swell their
fruit and bring it to maturity. Make each
watering a thorough one, but do with as
few waterings as possible instead of giving as
many as possible. Too much water and not
enough food will develop fruit of poor keep-
ing quality, hence poor sales. I have seen
(Continued on page 32.)


DASPYL
AUSTRALIAN MADE
BRASSWORK
CATALOGUE "b"
DASPYL |
PLUMBERS’
AND ENGINEERS
SUPPLIES
John Danks & Son
PTY. LTn.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY
WORKS t'OL'NDHD IHS9
JUST OUT
A NEW AND REVISED EDITION
OF OUR
Plumbers’ Catalogue
Send for your (post free) copy.
THE LEADING PLUMBERS use Daspyl
Brasswork. It holds a high reputation
throughout the Commonwealth, and
every line in Daspyl Plumbers’ Lead
and Brasswork carries our guarantee.
Daspyl Goods fully comply with the
requirements of the various Boards of
Works; and the range in Plumbers’
Lead and Brass Fittings bearing our
Trade-mark is very complete.
onimmiiiiinii
I JOHN,
fiimiimiiii I
■uro
limn
&SON I
.iiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiii
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE
Bellevue Hotel, Brisbane,
As a Going Concern
including the magnificent freehold and three-storeyed buildings, the modern
furnishings and working plant and equipment, the license, and the business.
BY AUCTION, ON THE PREMISES,
ON MONDAY, 16th DECEMBER, AT 11 a.m. SHARP.
Hempenstall Bros., Ltd.
AUCTIONEERS, have been favored with instructions from H. W. Wfebber,
Esq., who is retiring from business, to sell
A WONDERFUL PROPERTY WITH A WONDERFUL FUTURE.
m
M:
l mm
H
I
1
THE WHOLE OF THIS VALUABLE PROPERTY AND WELL-
ESTABLISHED BUSINESS on a walk-in-walk-out basis, with immediate
possession to the buyer. Over the last quarter of a century the Bellevue Hotel
has been built up by personal care and efficient management to be one of the
BEST KNOWN and MOST POPULAR FIRST-CLASS HOTEL businesses in
the State.
Situated as it is opposite the IMPOSING AND DIGNIFIED BUILDINGS
OF PARLIAMENT HOUSE and THE QUEENSLAND CLUB, with unsurpassed
views of the City Gardens on the one hand and the delightful reaches of the
Brisbane River on the other, it well deserves its reputation of being the most
ideally situated first-class hotel in the city.
It enjoys the possession of the largest area of land and frontage of any
first-class hotel in Brisbane, containing as it does TWO ROODS AND TWENTY-
EIGHT PERCHES, fronting three streets—George Street 148 ft., Alice Street
235 ft., William Street 76ft. The present buildings occupy about half these
frontages, leaving ample room for future expansion to all three streets.
if any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your fancy, write
to the Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
THE SUNSHINE AUTO HEADER
12ft. COT. SELF-PROPELLED
HARVESTS FORTY ACRES OF CROP
IN A DAY.
CONSUMES ONLY HALF A GALLON
OF PETROL TO THE ACRE.
r‘
Sfef
■
. ■
\ ; - * • .v -
m
X® .
a
g®
If
„£ ~’«£i
ym
kg
as
■•w
;#/
■*
SltfSiSjij
S -;
ii
££M
v
m
.a
S£
ifs
■ 3!
•- ''-
!»
Ml
pf
QUICK HARVESTING cuts down
the period of crop insurance;
reduces loss of grain from shed-
ding; makes the harvest season
short, sharp, and therefore more
economical.
TWO MEN ONLY REQUIRED
on the Auto Header—one to
drive and one to tend the
bagging. Labor is the most
expensive item in harvest costs.
This machine reduces it to a
minimum.
STORM FLATTENED AND TANGLED
CROPS ARE SUCCESSFULLY
HARVESTED BY THE
SUNSHINE AUTO HEADER.
ALSO CROPS INFESTED WITH THISTLES
NO OTHER MACHINE CAN EQUAL
ITS PERFORMANCE.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE, AUSTRALIA.
BRANCHES:
664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne. 27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide. Cr. Murray and King Streets, Perth.
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
H. V. McKAY (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
Catalogue, Price and Terms posted free on request.


0
9
?' \
tf #
■■■Ml
'■■X
S-.«v.
jiipip
WaS&wt-X : xim®3v />
TV7HEN you consider what is offered irt the Outstanding Chevrolet, it is easy
W llric lei-st«mci why this remarkable ear is regarded as one of the most i
standing'achievements in motoring history. For it is more than just a "six
the price range of the four."
It is an entirely new creation, which makes available for the first time, at pi
within reach of every buyer, everything you can want in a fine motor car. It g
you the fine car’s six-cylinder power, speed, acceleration, and vibrationless operatio
Ti tamlcintf safelv cincl Krtncllinfi cgls
including four hydraulic shock absorbers. HIH
Yet it provides all this with outstanding economy-jusi as many miles per gallon as the four will
pet! &tov
Prices from £225 ||r
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR :: BUY FROM 'OUR LOCAL DEALER
CmmkHt /w-jwiw/j <* * imral C.MA.C 7W M*
GENERAL MOTORS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Y;). . ■ "
Qfhe
Outstanding Chevrolet
of Chevrolet History
- a Six in the price range of the four f
ml
i
lal
LJI&
» ifl
«H||
■I
ffli
“"■MHH
11
BIMMI
M


ow ream
r the four act
e
■
m
H»
i i i
■ —-rrrTT'l
mIMWm
mmi mm
H
•/I-
m
WBm
w**mm
"xl
m
>1.1
MSI
■
I
/ r la#
,,.. ..
UE.....J
: 1
h i
VJ
B
■
!l ?
K;g
hh
' ,•
Is «?
...I '
/
/
- ■ m
III
H
m
m
:
■ . ■
t
A
■
■ ■ • . ■
ill:;
I
I
mm
m
m
y
: ; -S :
■
'
K:
Hi
/
:
I ■
■
■
• . ,
■
- m
ie?
■
■s
an
H
>
-'P'l
11
: i
ill
■***%
M
m
i
• -j
,m
1
Hi
• v • '. .
H
Hi
w.
H
/J
H .
Hi—
■ 1H9I
m
■
■
S-i:’
H
,
I
; ■
Hi
■
■
HI
m
:
MB
InHHRn i -- m
m 1j
■
m
: , .;
I Hi
: ■
■
■
H
.
i-i
ill;;:!:;-
■ ■ i- 11
■ :
Hi
■
■ :: : : s
■ill
i ■ I: ■■■
m
; : •'•:: •: v.
• ••:
-
.


m
-r« , v i
/>
I
m
&
1
4
111
WII
Toughest, most
flexible leather
Because of the special quality of the
leather used, the Abbey Riding Boot
is light in weight and surprisingly
supple. It fits with the utmost ease.
Stout elastic insets at the sides ensure
that. And the upper is shaped in a
curve to accommodate the instep
arch. There’s no strain at any point.
It is lined throughout with soft
leather—with no raised seams to
chafe or catch the foot. The Abbey
Riding Boot, built on a specially
designed last, is the ideal type—
smart, long-wearing and comfortable.
Order by Post
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
avaliable in all sizes. Specify width
and length, and order, also, a tin of
Abbey Preservative Polish (6d.), or
a compact cleaning outfit (2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF . . 427-
BLACK BOX CALF . . 37/6
New summer sporting catalogue post free on
request.
ABBEY
(Established over 80 years),
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY
Telegraphic Address: “Abbey Boots,” Sydney.
FPL 153.
Oh Boy!
It’s easy to ride
like Tom Mix
astride this
saddle.
This TOM MIX
Saddle is the only
cowboy saddle
made in Australia
on a genu in c
American imported
rawhide - covered
tree. That is why
it is a perfect fit
for horse and rider.
J
■\
I
Fitted up complete with girth
leathers and stirrups for £l3/10/-
Send for N( : w Illustrated Catalog, post free from
JOHN BRUSH,
The Saddle Specialist,
SYDNEY: 371 George Street.
BRISBANE : 434 Queen Street.
m
ES
. -r:„
\ .. >
r
Martin Ditcher
Most useful farm implement
in Australia. Quickly saves
the cost, £35, in speed, effi-
ciency and wages. Ditches,
levels, irrigates, drains, re-
claims, builds and repairs
roads, etc.
J. B. WALLIS LTD.
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney
499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
168 Edward Street, Brisbane
T. T. Building, Light Street, Adelaide
Padbury Building, Forrest Place, Perth.
d
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
dnbesiiiigfor
Piling up every little surplus so'profitably and
wisely that full financial independence comes at
a very maximum of speed —that is what our NEW
Investment plan means to you
WRITE FOR A PAMPHLET
Have a Bank Account —Keep it Qroiving
The Primary Producers Bank of Australia Ltd.
Head Office: 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at Londoj
ms
CHANDLER’S VERANDAH BLINDS
ď
6ft. x Bft.
17/6
9ft. x Bft.
25/6
12ft. x Bft.
32/6
each.
CHANDLER’S VERANDAH BLINDS are made in our own factory under the
supervision of experts who have spent years in perfecting their craft. They
are sent out complete with top batten, heavy bottom roller, single and
double pulley straps, cord and staples.
The special line of blinds quoted above is made only in the 3 sizes, with Bft.
drop, and is obtainable in English White or Green or Brown block striped duck.
Prices of other sizes and qualities will be sent on application together with
samples if desired.
Prices are Free on Rails, Melbourne.
D. & W. CHANDLER LTD.
BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY, VICTORIA.
peaches packed apparently in perfect condi-
tion, and I have seen the same fruit arrive
at destination next day badly rotted and
mere skinfuls of water.
The secret of getting rich results with
lesb waterings lies in green manuring.
Sow a crop of peas or beans between
the trees early in the year. It works both
ways. The soil with the crop ploughed in
will be loose and open, i*etaining the mois-
ture for a longer period than a hungry
soil will do. Also, when the time comes
to irrigate, the water will reach its des-
tination in a much shorter time in a loose
pliable soil than it will if the soil be caked
and hard. There wilt be a saving of w T ater
and of labor, besides developing a better
class of fruit.
TOMATO WILTS.
New South Wales Experiments.
“R.X.8.” : I do not understand how tlirips
could be blamed for tomato wilt. It is cer-
tainly of bacterial origin. “Alf Alpha” (B.
30/10/’2O) says he wishes he knew a cure
for the trouble, and “Yeoman” (B. 25/9/’29)
quotes the Waite Research Institute (S.A.)
as saying that there is no cure in sight. In
the island of Jersey, where tomatoes are
extensively grown for the English market,
wilt threatened the industry with destruction.
Agricultural scientists diagnosed the trouble
as being of bacterial origin then, and advised
that the spores should be killed by baking
the soil. Growers treated about 6in. of their
topsoil by heating a cartload at a time in
specially erected kilns about the farms, and
the trouble disappeared. Since then tomato
seedlings have always been raised in steri-
lised soil. Mr. Makin, of the N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture, author of “Vegetable
Growing in N. S. Wales,” in conjunction
with Finn, urges growers to adopt soil steri-
lisation by heating, and says he had excellent
results by raising seedlings in some soil that
he heated in a kerosene-tin for an hour on
the kitchen stove. He put a lid on to keep
the steam in, but doesn’t say anything about
the temperature. However, I have found
that 150 degrees Fahrenheit will kill spores
and not affect the humus.
The Waite Institute’s Work.
“Yeoman”: My reference (B. 25/9/’29)
was to the dreaded spotted wilt, the virus of
which is spread by a thrip—a noteworthy
discovery made by the Waite Research Insti-
tute (S.A.) in 1928. “Alf Alpha’s” assertion
that the Waite Institute, in making that
claim, “is stealing someone else’s thunder” is
absurd. For confirmation I refer to a Bulletin
on Tomato Culture and Diseases issued by the
A r ictorian Department of Agriculture in 1927.
This work states that the “cause” and
“mode of spread” of the spotted wilt disease
were unknown. That was just prior to the
discovery of the mode of the spread of infec-
tion made by the Waite Institute.
Two' other prominent types of wilt are
velticillium, which is a disease that attacks
plants when low-temperature conditions
exist, and fusarium, which affects tomatoes
during hot weather. Both these wilt diseases,
which are distinct from spotted wilt, are
caused by fungi which infest the soil.
“Alf Alpha’s” statement that C. C.
Brittlebank (pathologist) and C. French
(entomologist), of the Vic. Department, “dis-
covered the cause of wilt many years ago” is
incorrect. His further statement that “a
peculiar feature of wilt is the abundancy
of nitrates in the affected plants” obviously
refers to “streak” disease, which is not a
true wilt. An abundancy, or even an excess,
of nitrates in the .soil is not a contributing
cause of spotted wilt, or either verticillium
or fusarium wilt.
MAKING THE BEST OF HIDES.
“Wrash”: Thousands of pounds are lost
to the sellers yearly owing to unskilful pre-
paration and marketing of hides. Sprawling-
brands, careless flaying, inefficient curing, and
a dirty or stained appearance are the chief
factors.
To make a shapely hide the skin of a
slaughtered beast should be opened squarely.
Straight-line incisions should be made from
the lower-jaw middle along the neck and
belly to the tail, from each knee to the
fore brisket, and down the inside - back of
each hind-leg to the crutch. AVith a sharp
knife the skin should be carefully removed,
without scoring on the inner surface. The
green skin should be kept free from blood,
washed of dirt, liberally sprinkled with salt
and bibled (folded), beginning skin to skin,
by constantly turning the outer edges to the
middle until the folded skin has the form and
size of a family Bible. Hides thus treated
will not putrefy, will retain a marketable
appearance, and may be expected to bring
top prices.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
What fertiliser's should be used, and how,
in groiving tomatoes under glass? —37so.
Bonedust is a favorite with many, and is
applied during the early preparation of the
soil at the rate of a bag to a standard
house. Superphosphate, at the rate of 301 b.
to 501 b. per standard house, is beneficial
in sandy soils. It should be applied just
previous to the setting out of the plants in
the house. Nitrogenous fertilisers are help-
ful after the fruit has set. Sulphate of
ammonia is used during the spring and
summer, and is preferably applied on
several occasions just previous to watering
at the rate of lib. per row. Poultry and
other farm manures are also valuable for
application as a top-dressing before watering.
These should not be used if there is any
likelihood of the stock having received, as
feed, diseased tomato fruits. Applications
of poultry manure at the rate of as much
as five kerosene-tins per row have been
made with satisfactory results. This manure
should be kept on the surface and not dug
under. Cow manure may be dug in during
the early preparation of sandy soils.
What taxes is a dairy-farmer subject to
in Queensland? —3546.
Taxation depends on land value and
income, as in other parts of the Common-
wealth. Local authorities’ rates are levied
on the unimproved value of the land and
range from 3d. to 6d. in the f.
(1) What are the prospects of the beef
cattle industry in Northei'n Australia at
present? (2) Where are meatworks situ-
ated? (3) Hoiv is it possible to obtain lands
in 'Northern Australia for grazing purposes,
and ichere? —33o6.
(1) Owing to the lack of remunerative
markets and the prevailing drought condi-
tions in Western Queensland, the industry is
at present being carried on unprofitably. (2)
At Darwin, but they have not operated for
some time. (3) The North Australia Com-
mission fixes the terms and conditions under
which the land may be leased, and advertise-
ments are inserted in the Commonwealth
Gazette. Unoccupied Crown lands, how-
ever. may be applied for and taken up under
grazing license on an annual tenure at a
rental of Is. per square mile per annum,
together with a license fee of fl. An appli-
cant for a grazing license over pastoral
lands should state full name, address and
occupation and forward a description of the
area he desires to take up, together with
the rent, based on the stated rate and fee,
either to the Department of Home Affairs,
Canberra, or the North Australia Commis-
sion, Darwin.
How to rid a pineapple plantation of
crows ? —3358.
Place a bait of meat inside a trap, which
can be a large wooden structure. The crow
enters from the top, and when trapped cannot
get out again. Others quickly follow, and
when sufficient are in the enclosure they
may be easily destroyed.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Poker” : Now is the time to overhaul the
fowlhoqses. Give them a liberal spraying
with kerosene emulsion. If applied hot it
will kill both eggs and insects.
“Poker” : Send your fat lambs to market
unshorn. Shearing bruises them, and the
little you get for the wool does not counter-
balance the loss in their meat value.
“Specker”: Young animals have a habit
of licking everything. If you’ve got calves
running about, pick up your old paint-
containers and put them out of the way.
And don’t let the little chaps get slow lead-
poisoning and sicken and die through lick-
ing old dried paint, either.
“Bushman”: A few tobacco plants are an
asset on any farm where they will grow. The
dried leaves can be turned into home-made
sprays by soaking, and the stalks and leaves,
put under setting hens and in nests, will
keep the vermin away.
“Burrandong Bill” : Don’t throw away the
steel bands on your woolpacks; they are
excellent for laying points on ploughshares,
making wood- and cold-chisels, “hardies,”
and other steel tools. Properly welded, this
material will temper to a hardness equal to
good spring steel, and any handy man with
a forge can do the job, as it is comparatively
easy to work.
“Love Apple”: The fertiliser recommended
by the N.S.W. Department of Agriculture for
tomatoes is 4cwt. per acre of equal parts
of bonedust and super., spread along the
open drills previous to transplanting. When
half grown topdress with one part of sul-
phate of ammonia and five parts super., used
at the rate of 2cwt. per acre; spread along
the rows between the plants.
“Watyle” : For horses and cows that are
not thriving as they should, the following
physic drenches are useful: For horses:
Aloes, 8 teaspoons ; soda, 1 teaspoon ; ginger,
1 teaspoon. Dissolve in one pint of luke-
warm water. For cows: Epsom salts, lib.;
ginger, 1 tablespoon; soda, 1 tablespoon.
Dissolve in one quart of lukewarm water.
This is an excellent drench to give prior to
calving, too.
“Bill R.” : To cob a field of maize buckle
around the hand a leather pad with a thumb-
hole. At the centre of the palm have two
small tranverse incisions, and lace therein
perpendicularly a well-sharpened four-inch
nail. With an upward stroke of the nail
the cob sheath is split open, and with the
backward movement the cob is pulled. This
greatly expedites the work, and prevents
sorely-blistered hands.
“Gobbler” : After three years’ experiment-
ing with blackhead, the most prolific cause
of deaths among young turkeys, the poultry
instructor at Hawkesbury, Mr. C. Lawrence,
has found a remedy. Confine the birds once
a week so that they will not have access to
any water except that into which ipecacu-
anha wane —one dessertspoon to a quart —
has been added. This quantity is sufficient
for about 20 birds one month old. Treat
from a week old till they “shoot the red.”
Ten drops given twice daily to an adult bird
showing will ai-rest the disease.
“Gobbler” : Chicken-pox among young tur-
keys is a disease to be reckoned with. Give
loz. flowers of sulphur in every 71b. of
mash every third day for three weeks, com-
mencing in January, to be followed with
doses of Epsom salts —loz. to each gallon
of water—every third day for another three
weeks. Repeat the sulphur treatment the
following three weeks, then alternate the
salts and sulphur for periods of three weeks
until the end of April or May, as the ease
appears to warrant. In the event of an
outbreak treat the sores with tincture of
iodine or ordinary washing blue.
“AVrash”: Early summer is the time to
deal with codlin-moths in the quince, apple
and pear trees. When the blossoms start to
fall the trees should be sprayed with a
solution of 20oz. dry arsenate of lead to
50gal. water. Spray again in the earlier
days of the following three months. Loose
bark, broken branches and fallen fruit should
be removed and burned regularly each week.
Between November and .Tune the stems of
the trees should be bandaged with Sin. sack-
ing folded downwards. At least once in
every fortnight the bandages should be care-
fully taken off and immersed in boiling
water.
“Bufforp” : Money in ducks? I should say
so. One Muscovy reared three families for
me in one year—lo, 14 and 15. There were
27 drakes and the prices pej- pair obtained
ran from 225. 6d. down to 6s. They were
fed on house scraps, 50 per cent, chaffed
green stuff, and the rest bran and pollard,
with a little meat, bone and linseed meal.
They were on free range till a few weeks
before sale. They are great grazers. The
duck was only allowed to stay wfith the
young ones tiil they could fend for them-
selves, then went back to the breeding-pen.
She actually laid 70 eggs, but the first ones
were used in the house, and the rest were
infertiles. A fiver would cover all the birds
eat, so the margin of profit was good enough
for anyone.


■
m.
I
; >
Si
*
w
nr
You will be very pleased
with the pink freshness of
the meat and its delicate ap-
petising aroma. You will enjoy its
delicious flavour. Noting the clear
firm jelly, and the pure fine clean-
looking texture of the meat due to the
use of only the most carefully selected
choicest raw materials, you will say,
“ Foggitt Jones certainly do not sacri-
fice quality for cheapness.” And,
wanting full measure in food-value
and money-value, you will always
order confidently from your grocer or
smallgoodsman, “ REX-PYE, please ! ”
d
tSQKSHa?'
JELLY
In lib & hlb hygienic cans.
ITT JONE.S
PTY. LTD.
(Division of United Provisions Ll-d.)
Curers of the Choice REX Hams and Bacon.


Kgn-L-RotioiN
Th Dog food
Supreme
m
A perfectly balanced meat ration; keeps
all breeds of dogs in perfect condition.
Composed of clean, wholesome red meat,
oatmeal, fresh onions and cod liver
oil in exactly the right proportions.
In Tins. READY TO SERVE.
A Perfectly-balanced Ration.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from
W. C. SCHWAB
P. O. Box 1821, Melbourne
Ken-T tßation
đ
Why be satisfied with less?
SHARE in the benefits that P. & C. Assurance brings ! When times
are hazardous the company keeps policies in force ; a definite
sum is set aside each year for loan purposes. P. &C. policies
are planned to meet the special needs of the man on the land —these
are the things that have resulted from the co-operative basis of the
P. &C. The further fact that the company is linked with the most
influential co-operative bodies in the Commonwealth is yet another
factor in the stability of the company. When such advantages can
be obtained at no extra cost, why be satisfied with less ?
Chairman of Directors : Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C, Man. Director :H. Fell
PRODUCERS S'CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD;.
221-225 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
“Sombrero”
65 1-
Just a great big 3in.
leaf Stetson for wear
between Sunrise and
Suns .t for those
who toil out of
doors.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street, Brisbane, Q.
SMOKE-OH!
Little Jill Horner
Found she had torn ’ er
Intimate lingerie;
She made her repairs
’Midst masculine stares.
And was she distressed? Not she!
A MOVING PICTURE.
“Jack says it’s shocking the way the men rush the bars just
before closing time.”
“Yes — that’s the great Australian fill-’em industry.”
RESERVATION.
T su w her in her bathing suit;
My heart beat ninety to the minute.
I saw her in her bathing suit —
Or, rather, she was partly in it.
* *
A man in a Sydney, court, last week
brought an action against liis wife for
assault. She pleaded in effect that she had
merely been keeping him up to the scratch.
“Back to Portland re-unions.” —Melbourne Heiuld.
Cementing old friendships.
* *
Some of the coalminers’ leaders may be
hoping for the best, but they’ll take darned
good care that the mines are not open for
the best, too.
In Berlin a co. intends to put in auto-
matic machines to supply umbrellas at six-
pence each. They'll go up, of course, it it
rains.
GIVING HER AWAY.
McMiser with approval scanned
The suitor for his daughter's hand;
“Take her, my hoy,” at last said he,
“ She’s very, very dear to me!”
* *
“English cricketers take no chances.”
Must have been playing one of those safety
matches.
# *
Cup time is always a crook time with
many visitors to Melbourne.
Sydney Guardian’s Armistice Day
story:—
The Prince was there with Lord Jellicoe, and
when they walked from the platform ex-servicemen
slapped them on the back, the huge assemblage
roaring its apprehension.
Evidently thought the ruffians were Red-
handed.
¥ *
THE PRODIGAL.
No change we found, after all those years,
In his “ touching ” smile or his thirst for
beers.
His pockets showed the same feature strange;
In none of them teas there any change.
HIS CREDIT BALANCE.
“Have you done your good deed to-day,
my boy?”
“No, I’m set to-day; I did two yesterday.”
1898-W29.
When Mrs. Hay and Mrs. Brown
Weekly met in ’ninety-three
The chorus when they’d done the town
Was “Gome and have a cup of tea.”
Still bosom friends, each week they meet,
And he the weather cold or hot
The greeting that they always hleat
Was “Come and have a cup of tea.”
O. W. Waireki.
* #
In the old days Adam did the delving
whilst Eve did the spinning. In Surry Hills
nowadays Eve delves whilst A’dam does the
spinning—at the two-up school.
THE DESPERADO.
The thief crept towards the mantelpiece.
The moonlight streaming through the window
disclosed the figure of a woman
sunk in sleep. Breathlessly he
searched. His victim’s hoard
was well hidden. Driven to
desperation, he at length
approached the sleeper and
thrust a predatory hand under
the mattress. A thrill of exul-
tation shot through him as he
felt a roll of notes. Withdraw-
ing silently, he fled downstairs.
“Cripes,” he muttered as he set
off to the poker school, “I hope
me luck’s good. There’ll be
hell to pay in the mornin’ if
it ain’t and the wife finds I’ve
located her new hidin’-place!”
THE WEEK’S RIDDLE.
What’s the difference between Unemploy-
ment Insurance and Unemployment Ensur-
ance?
* *
During an interview a retired Sydney
Judge said that he was always noted for
the brevity of his summing-up. It is quite
true. Some of the people he had dealings
with still remember how much he could
cram into a sentence.
* *
Fashion note from Queensland: —
Spots are still popular, but are larger now than
they were three or four months ago.
HOW IT REALLY HAPPENED.
The fight fans of Philistia were madly
enthusiastic about “Cyclone” Goliath, the
greatest white heavyweight of his day.
He usually killed his opponents—a
practice which was allowed under
Marquis of Jericho rules. Providen-
tially—for it was getting hard to
arrange fights for him —the Stadium
manager, Rube Habakuk, while in
Judah met and signed, up the local
champion, David. Stories of liow the
lad had destroyed a lion were judi-
ciously fed to the public, and accounts
of his comeliness were inserted at the
usual rates in the women’s journals.
It then became necessary to fix mat-
ters with Goliath. “You’ll have to lie
down to the kid the first time, Goly,
said Habakuk. “You can kill him in
the second go, when wc have the public
interested.”
Habakuk was a forceful character,
and the Philistian wonder, like all his
tribe, was easily talked round.
Next day Goliath told the press that,
having seen young David in action at
the latter’s training quarters, he was
satisfied he was going to have the go
of his life. It helped to stimulate
the price of tickets, which immediately
went to a premium of several shekels,
and the Stadium was chock-a-block on
the great day.
An excellent, though brief, descrip-
tion of the fight has been given else-
where. The laughter of the fans when
David hopped through the ropes and went
over to the seven-foot champion’s corner to
shake hands was heard as far away as Tyre.
“Where’s ’is pram?” yelled one Wazzir
wit who had piled the whole of his earnings
from the Pyramids maintenance job on the
giant.
The ensuing disaster caused a stunned
silence. Then a mighty yell arose.
“Schlcnter! Whatcher giving us?” roared
the crowd.
Ilabakuk smiled complacently.
“Goly done it fine,” was his comment.
“Went down like a chopped tree.”
“What’s David think he’s doing with that
sword?” asked the sub-manager nervously.
“It’s all 0.K.,” said Rube carelessly.
“Just a bit of dope for the crowd. I never
thought the lad had it in him.”
Looking more closely at the proceedings in
the ring, he suddenly started to his feet
with a howl, and then rushed to the police
inspector’s seat, while the house rang with
infuriated hoots.
PLENTY OF CANDIDATES FOR
THAT JOB.
Her: “If I had pots of money, my dear-
why I’d get someone to even wish for
me!”
Him : “If you had pots of money, my dear,
I’d wish for you myself!”
The sporting writers of Palestine have
never come to an agreement from that day
to this as to whether the fight was a fake
or on the level. There is no actual evidence
that the N.S.C. disqualified David, but it
is at least significant that no promoter ever
dared to give him another fight.
Hameb.
WAPPING LANGUAGE.
“Say,” commenced Sam, just off the
Malolo and opening the conversation, “Arvo
been in this arlottment wan hour an’ I’ll
say I kinda like it.”
“Like what?” The country or the tonic?”
“Waal, what I unloosed goes fur the
country, an’, guessin’ that you mean groag,
fur the tonic, too. The boose is Okaaay,
an’ the spirit you’ve got, rneanin’ every-
thing spirit means, is mighty grand, believe
me.”
“Hedge it,, Sam, hedge it! Cut out the
frogswool.”
“Now, that’s queerr. Back hoame we call
frogswool horrse-feathers hafta we’ve used
apple-sauce the once.”
“And you Americans call your spots
sudden death, too, don’t you?”
“Ourr licker leaves folks cold; is that
what you’rre drivin’?”
“I mean that it’s willin’ —over the odds.”
“Waal, the bast o’ the bast is not so acootly
poisonous. That lats out the hoame-stewed
eommardity, the same bein’ baad and no two
waays ’bout it. The big strike agin> it is
this: The ’leggerrs an’ dealerrs mix cacktails,
marryin’ the bit o’ good stuff with the baad.
You caan’t get the real stuff intrinsic. But
Arm not divorcin’ the boose, an’ a unit
reason why I made this trip was on account
o’ my hankerin’ hafta a real drink.”
“You won’t like parts of New Zealand.
They’re dry.”
“Waal, I won’t like them. But it ain’t
gonna make me all wat.”
“Will you have a drink with me?”
“Ma hand’s up. A real drink is no kind o’
good man with me, a good man bein’ one you
eaan’t keep down.”
“Sorry, we’ve got to hurry; it’s gettin’
on for six.”
“Say, why in the Sam Hill d’you allow the
rulin’ trumps to pull this six a’clack closin’
on you?”
“We’ve got to put up with it.”
“You certainly do, an’ you sit pritty on it.
The stuff’s poison more or less, with little
less, in Liberty-land, I know, but. liombre!
if a guy wants a drop o’ sarsaprilly-kiddin
in the States he hasn’t gotta furgit its hafta
six a’clack. Why, the groag-fountains are
goin’ all the time.”
“Six o'clock, gents. All out, please.
“Tarnation! Arl say you should chair
this six a’clack closin’ stunt!”
WATTS EATON HOGHES.
MORE AMATIONS.
(From Viscount Muttonead, our Special
Commissioner.)
Sir Albert Willis has completed negotia-
tions for the purchase of the Sydney Morn-
ing Hera no by the Labor Daily on the
lay-by system. It is
understood that the
Herald will re-
ceive a mortgage
over the Trades
Hall as part of the
purchase price. The
new combine will
be known as Red
and Blue News-
papers, Ltd., and
will control as sub-
sidiary publications
the Sydney Mail
and the Tout.
A leading cash-
order company is
stated to be finan-
cin g the deal
whereby the War
Cr y, Beckett’s
and the Poultry
Farmer’s Gazette
will be amal-
gamated.
Brewery and tea
company shares
have reacted
strongly to the
announcement that
the Licensed Vic-
TUALLERS’
Gazette and the
White Ribbon are
to be merged in
Shandy Publica-
tions, Ltd. There
is a distinct pos-
sibility that the
Jewish Chron-
icle and Free-
man’s .Journal
will be included in
the deal.
Exchange difficul-
ties in converting
taels into lire are
said to be holding
up the purchase of
Italio Austra-
liano by the
Chinese Repub-
lican News. The
monthly journal
Young Greece is
definitely out of
this deal, as no agreement could be reached
on the valuation of the fried-fish assets of
that company.
REVERSE GEAR.
Bill Buick is a sheikish cur,
Who well deserved the smack
May gave him for insulting her
And making her walk hack.
May Ford has very much Bill’s style,
She also likes to roam.
Last night she drove Jim many a mile —
Ah! do not at the poor hoy smile,
I met him trudging v home!
DORIC.
SHIRTY.
“If he was my boy friend he would soon get
short shift.” —Melbourne Sun correspondent.
Many will fail to get your drift,
And. p’raps grow pert.
My tip herewith (which is a gift)
This may avert: _
’Twere better to curtail his shrift
Than lose your shirt,
MACESS.


&RAAAM
atiMhb-uo
AAI&£
Sraham-Paigk offers a variety of body types,
including Roadsters, Cabriolets, Coupes and Sport
Phaetons, on five chassis, in sixes and eights at
■l wide range of prices.
Surplus Value
in the New 612
Owners are telling our dealers that they
purchased the new Graham-Paige Model
61 2 because of the surplus value it reveals.
We urge you to examine this car, to make
your own comparisons, and to enjoy a
demonstration.
mm
1 ,
s@ ■
/•- • F-l ~..
✓
d
The Motor for exampl
2 Y%" balanced crankshaft supported in seven extra
large bronze back interchangeable main bearings;
thermostatically controlled cooling with water
jackets extending the full length of cylinder bore
and completely surrounding valve seats; adjustable
silent chain timing; positively driven gasoline
pump, water pump and generator; constant clear'
ance aluminum alloy pistons; exhaust from front of
engine keeping heat away from driving compart-
ment: engine mounted at four points on rubber.
Craham-Paige Distributors , Australia and New Zealand:
NEW SOUTH WALES ..
VICTORIA .
SOUTH AUSTRALIA ..
.. W. H. LOBER & CO., LTD.
. ~ . . WALTER WHITBOURN PTY., LTD.
.. MAUGHAN THIEM MOTOR CO., LTD.
NEW ZEALAND
WEST AUSTRALIA ARTHUR BALES, LIMITED.
QUEENSLAND MOXON MOTORS, LTD.
TASMANIA TWIN-TOP MOTORS PTY., LTD.
WRIGHT, STEPHENSON & CO., LTD.
&AAMAM-PAlk£
w
A
n
s'.t
a
m
M,
m
22
It is the testimony of not one but thousands of one-time sufferers
which enables us. to state that if you will commence a course with a
simple, straightforward remedy, De Witt s Kidney and Bladder Pills,
you will start again on the road to health. Under guarantee, we say
that if you will test this 40-year-old remedy, in 24 hours you will
see results.
Read this letter, just one of thousands
Mrs. E. Deacon, f/8 Locksley Avenue , Merry lands, Sydney, says:—“For nine
months I stiffened with had backache. It teas just as if a fork had been dug in
my back. I could not sleep until the pain. As for doing my cleaning, when
I got down on my knees I could hardly get up. The pain attacked me every-
where. No one knows what I went through with my kidneys. I started taking
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills. They have done me the world of good. I
get up better, fresher at five in the morning without pain. I blame myself for not
taking ‘De Witt’s’ before.”
Why hesitate longer when such a wonderful offer of health is placed before
you? Why forego the pleasures of life? Why continue in constant nerve-
destroying pain? Why be weak and ailing, when you can, just by visiting
your nearest chemist, start once again building up full vim, vigor and vitality?
BREAKDOWN!
Kidney Trouble Causes Your Weakness
THIS FAMOUS FORTY-YEAR-OLD REMEDY HAS BROUGHT
HEALTH TO THOUSANDS—IT WILL SURELY BENEFIT YOU
If you are run-down, feeling worn-out, hating work, and with no zest for
pleasure, your strength just “giving out,” back aching, complexion sallow or
spotted; if you are having bad nights, it is practically certain that kidney
trouble is poisoning your system.
You may call your trouble rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, chronic backache,
but it is no less certain that the kidneys are at the seat of all your ill-health.
Your chemist knows how good this is
Do you know thousands of men and women have found that by
taking a course of treatment with De Witt’s Pills, they have enjoyed
a new lease of life? Women once crippled with pain, bed-ridden,
tell you that thanks to this simple inexpensive remedy they now
enjoy splendid vigor and vitality. Men old before their time have
regained new strength. This remedy, which sells by millions of
bottles the world over, acts directly on the kidneys so that they
purify the blood of all pain-giving poisons. Invaluable, too, in all
cases of Bladder Trouble. Why not ask your chemist about De
Witt’s Pills. He will tell you all about the splendid prescription
printed on the box, and why, if you purchase a 3/6 or 6/6 supply,
you will surely be on the road to splendid health.
For your own health’s sake do not accept any substitute for
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills.
9
KIDNEY
AND
BLADDER
ď
THE REMEDY WITH THE GUARANTEE TO PROVE RESULTS.


Educational.
SCOTCH COLLEGE,
TORRENS PARK, MITCHAM, S.A.
A BOARDING and DAY SCHOOL for
Boys Headmaster, N. M. G. Gratton,
8.A., Dip. Ed. (Melbourne). Professional,
Commercial and Agricultural Courses.
Prospectus and further particulars may be
obtained from the Headmaster or the Sec-
retary, W. D. C. Paton, F.C.A. (Aust.),
A.M.P. Chambers, Adelaide.
Guessing At
TYRE PRESSURE
Is Extremely Costly
□
It is a mistake which takes
thousands of miles from the
life of your tyres * . . yet is
easily avoided.
Scientific tests, endorsed by lead-
ing tyre manufacturers, have proved
that 80 % of all premature tyre
break-downs are caused by failure to
keep tyres properly inflated.
How to avoid costly
Tyre trouble
Have your car or tyre dealer tell
you the correct pressure for your
tyres. Then buy a Schrader Tyre
Gauge, for balloon or high pressure
tyres, as you will require. The
Schrader Gauge is sturdy, depend-
able, easy to use, easy to read. Use
it frequently, once a week at least
and before long trips, to check the
actual air pressure. Always keep your
Schrader Gauge in your motor car*
Long life to your Tyres!
Now you can join the thousands of
experienced motorists who keep
their tyres correctly inflated, and get
every last mile of service from them.
I
Sold by
Accessory Dealers
everywhere
Schrader
Makers of Pneumatic Valves Since 1844
Tyre Valves:: Tvre Gauges
A. SCHRADER’S SON, Inc.
Proprietary Limited
422 Little Collins St.
Melbourne, Australia
SCOTT’S
’♦‘RENOWN” BRAND
ROPE, CORDAGE AND
BINDER TWINE.
Manufactured at Mascot, Sydney,
by
J. SCOTT, LIMITED.
Head Office and Stores:
163 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone: 82861. G.P.O. Box 251 DD.
d
ď
Ah! that reminds me, I promised John a
“VALET” Razor this Christmas.
Why a “ VALET ” particularly ?
Don t you see how the blade is stropped
without removal from the holder I
It looks simple enough, but what does it mean ?
It is simple and it means the
blade lasts longer!
I think I shall get Harry one, too.
How much do they cost ?
From 3/- upwards to 52/6
Let’s go in and
see how it
works
s/s
Ts
A
csa
•<ut£
No. 99 Set
contains the es-
sentials for a
perfect “Valet ”
Shave—the razor,
blade and strop
in neat case. As
illustrated 3/-
No. 55 Model “C” Set
contains self- stropping
“Valet ” Razor, three blades
and leather strop. In highly
polished nickelled case with
hinged strop container and
nickelled Wade sheath, lined
velvet and satin. As
trated - - lQfr
No. 50 Nickel Set in highly
polished nickel case -with domed
lid, contains heavily silvered
self-stropping “Valet” Razor, 12
tested “Valet” blades, and strop
of selected horsehide in hin'-rd
container. As illustrated 22/6
Managing Agents for Australia: PHIPSON & CO. LTD., 181 Clarence St., Sydney.
PROVED !
Those advertisers who are in the position to
test results have proved time and again that
THE DAIEY MAIE,
BRISBANE,
is definitely the finest result-getter in all Queensland.
tl !<■• winvnirt
is dehniteiy tne nncsi ICOUI '’ &
I, is tnore than SO years younger than
It. circulation ha. been proved by reader-value
than any other Queensland daily, and its mlluence
are certainly unsurpassed.
Rate cards, specimen copies, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-94 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Keep hopping and hoping if yon wish
to succeed-
THINK OF
d
SCHUTE,
BELL&C?*
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention-
Office*: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR”
PRICE
3A
needs to
Contains everything a ivoman


F
IT ISN'T A
MAGNAVOX 1
IT ISN’T A .
Hlnamic A
i* Ko<**fc)
o
“Your Radio pleasure depends
on the Speaker
Moderately Priced
Unequalled in Tone
Demonstration will Convince You.
Obtainable All Radio Dealers
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS JN ALL STATES.
m
The Car for
the Connoisseur
The Sunbeam is the car for the connoisseur, for the owner
who wants the best and the best only at a reasonable price.
There is a complete range of six-cylinder models from 16
h.p. to 25 h.p., all of which are of the superlative design,
quality and finish for which the Sunbeam car holds an
enviable reputation in all parts of the world.
Sunbeam cars for the Australian market are specially built
with the necessary ground clearance, springing and cooling
to ensure perfect performance on the roughest roads and
tracks and in the most tropical heat.
Complete catalogue will be sent on application to any of
our Authorised Dealers or to the Company’s address as below:
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.
Export Department:
12 Princes Street, Hanover Square, London W.l, ENGLAND.
Cables: “SUBEAMOCO,” London.
Head Office and Works: Wolverhampton, ENGLAND.
AUTHORISED DEALERS:
SYDNEY.
William, Hill & Cameron,
Ltd.,
91-97 Flinders Street.
PERTH:
Arthur Bales, Ltd.,
367-371 Murray Street.
MELBOURNE.
The All British Motor Co.
(Pty.), Ltd.,
104-106 Russell Street.
ADELAIDE.
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street.
fUNBEAM
“THE SUPREME CAR”
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY'S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Quiet —Restful —Cool—Open to the Summer Sea Breezes. With Private Beach and Amphitheatre
Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service. Spacious Grounds and Garage
Accommodation.
Tariff from 4l| guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip *rom City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines).
Pen and Picture
The
STARE
THEATRES
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
Shadow Shows
“My Man” (Warner Bros.) provides
evidence that the talkie-makers have yet to
learn that an audience can have too much,
of a good thing. The picture features Fannie
Brice, a Jewish character actress. She is
good, but in the course of an hour and a
half she gives as much of herself in vaude-
ville numbers as she would have to l give in
a fortnight in the ’alls. The result is that
before the movie is halfway through there
is a tendency to wish that when Miss Brice
is again asked to sing she will say “No” and
mean it. The picture proves, too, that a
Jewish-character turn is not strikingly suited
to the talkies, especially when a strong-
flavor of Bow-
FANNIE BRICE.
cry is thrown
in to help the
o t li e r mis-
handling o f
Engl i s h to
clog the mach-
ine. At one
hearing, a t
least, a normal
ear can grasp
only sufficient
of Miss Brice’s
utterances to
form a very
rough idea of
what it’s all
about. With
half the use
that is made
of the star the
movie would be
twice the en-
tertainer. It
has a fair
story, and
Miss Brice’s
silent acting
is, at times, excellent. In a New York foreign-
quarter flat she mothers her younger flighty
sister and child brother, meanwhile work-
ing as a seamstress. The sister clears off
with a theatre manager, and Miss Brice,
getting the full strength of this whilst hav-
ing a stage try-out, breaks down and loses
her chance. On her homeward way she saves
a muscular hobo she admires from arrest as
a vag; takes him home and tries to instil
into his dull brain that she’s his for the
asking. Then her sister, having “learnt her
lesson,” returns and tries her more sophisti-
cated art on the hobo. The best of the pic-
ture is the acting of Miss Brice during the
first few spasms and again at the end. The
middle is desert with oases of humor to make
it bearable. Miss Brice is billed as the
“female A 1 Jolson,” but she is not as bad
as all that.
The badly-named and erroneously-adver-
tised “Secrets of the East” (U.F.A.) turned
out on inspection to be the most entrancing
picture this column had seen for many a
day. The Germans have brought wit, humor,
ihvention and a lavish sense of the spectacu-
lar to bear on a typical Arabian Nights
story. Ali, the cobbler of Cairo (magnifi-
cently portrayed by Nikolai Kolin), dreams,
and his hallucinations are unfolded in a
series of extraordinary Edmund Dulac set-
tings. It appears that his Highness the
Sultan Schahriar has a marriageable daugh-
ter, and the Court Astrologer announces
that the bridegroom will come out of the
sea. The Court repairs to the seaside on the
date mentioned, and in due course the cobbler
arrives on the back of a rhinoceros. The
subsequent proceedings are in the right vein
of fantasy richly panoplied with humor. The
wedding breakfast is a masterpiece of foolery
and the attendant ballet beggars description.
When his deception is discovered the cobbler
is sentenced to be hanged, but as he is about
to be hoisted on the gibbet he begs permis-
sion to play a final swan-song on his whistle.
It is a magical instrument and as soon as
he blows it Sultan, Court, horses, camels, the
city and finally the entire kingdom com-
mence violently rotating. “Secrets of the
East” is a brilliant example of what could
be done with the screen if it were rescued
from the hands of the stencil-makers who
mainly monopolise production. The pros-
pects of a good panto at Christmas look
far from bright, but this film should make
an admirable substitute.
“Kitty” (World-wide Films), the first all-
British talkie, has a fairly familiar theme.
The lady of the name-part (Estelle Brody) is
a shopgirl of the usual sterling kind. John
Stuart is the scion of a noble house who
joins the Air Force for the war and confesses
to Miss Brody that, although not a coward,
he is “afraid of being afraid.” Estelle
decides, for reasons not made sufficiently
clear, that marriage with herself will make
him one of the bulldog breed. The wedding
takes place and the hero proceeds to the
Front. Meanwhile his unreal and aristo-
cratic mother gets wind of the affair. Having
less regard for her son’s happiness than for
the prestige of the family, she watches
Estelle’s shop. Satisfied that the girl has a
catholic taste in lovers, she sends the news
to her offspring. It reaches him just as he
is off on a flight, and so distresses him that
he puts his machine into a nose-dive and him-
self into a hospital. He comes out with
paralysed legs; whereupon the mother and
the wife do battle for possession of the
living corpse. The mother succeeds in
imprisoning her crippled hope in the castle
steep, but love will find a way, and Miss
Brody kidnaps her husband while he is
being taken for a drive. Thereafter the
sturdy little heroine makes good in more
ways than one. She establishes a success-
ful riverside teashop, and when the doctor
tells her that a sudden shock may restore
their natural functions to the hero’s limbs
she throws herself into the stream. The
remedy works like a charm. The paralysed
soldier leaps up and totters to the river’s
brink, only being deterred from diving in by
Miss Brody telling him she can swim. This
leads to a reconciliation with the haughty
and unsympathetic dowager, whose bosom
surprisingly shelters a loving mother’s heart.
The first three-quarters of the picture is
dumb, and, on the occasion The Bulletin
saw the offering, when the characters began
to talk the house roared in delighted surprise.
Apparently Australian audiences have become
so used to hearing nothing but the American
language from the screen that they have
come to imagine that all their brothers and
sisters in the Cold Land were born dumb for
the purposes of the silent film. “Kitty” is
an estimable effort, on the whole. It is too
long, but in the latter part the drama is
sound, and Estelle Brody, one of whose assets
is a mouth like a piece of twisted wire, has
the necessary sex appeal. John Stuarts
acting is effective and restrained. He even
succeeded in making the paralysis cure seem
quite an everyday affair.
The Palette
A feast of art has been spread at the
Blaxland Galleries, Sydney. The Royal Art
Society has its jubilee exhibition on the
eighth floor, and the Painter-Etchers’ Society
occupies the ninth. The Painter-Etchers’ show
suffers in the inevitable comparison, but it
has some neat stuff in it, notably the Sydney
Long, T. Friedensen and Sidney Walker
etchings. The jubilee affair has size and
quality. There are about 230 exhibits, in-
cluding miniatures, sculpture, fine book-
binding, etchings, water-colors and oils. A
large proportion of the finest stuff is gath-
ered from collections, private and public.
In the non-lent class there are a charming
Sydney Long view of George’s River,
some neat sentimentality by James R. Jack-
son, an allegorical vision by Ray Lindsay,
a picturesque glimpse of bright sunlight on
the Blue Mountains by W. A. Bowring,
a living smithy by W. Rowell and a Terrigal
(N.S.W.j beach view by Alfred Coffey. Pre-
sent writer would add only one small reser-
vation —the more he sees of A. Dattilo
Rubbo’s old men the more determined he be-
coiries to go on breaking doctor’s orders.
“O. P. Hand”: Excellent as it may be in
other respects, Bertram Mackennal’s marble
bust of George Turner at Parliament House,
Melbourne, does not remind me of Tiie
Bulletin’s “little man in the brown suit
and the spectacles.” Turner sported a small
round chin beard when he was Premier. He
may have changed considerably after he
retired from Federal politics. Still, I could
have wished for a memento that would have
called up recollections of the man I knew
for 26 years, and revered.
Orpen will probably enjoy a quiet laugh
when he learns that the Vic. National
Gallery has paid 600 guineas for “The Kiss,”
a work of no significance. The transaction
is only another proof of what an easy mark
“the colonies” are when it comes to buying
pictures on their names. During the same
week the Gallery selectors splashed another
200 guineas on an Australian work. In this
case they used artistic judgment; in H. B.
Harrison’s “Meg Morrison” they secured a
picture that carries at least four times as
well as the Orpen work. Its only defect,
if it is a defect, is that the figure is approxi-
mately 104 heads high.
The Inky Way
“Pigweed Jimmy”: The recently deceased
Ivalgoorlie Sun made hosts of enemies in
its earlier years. Libel actions were fre-
quent, but the paper throve upon them; the
aggrieved person who sought to retaliate
for obloquy by physical violence was less
easily dealt with. An exasperated town
councillor once drew up his buggy outside
the office and opened fire with six dozen evil-
smelling eggs, accompanying every shot with
a profane epithet. A more dangerous caller
was a tradesman who surged in one Monday
morning howling for vengeance with a loaded
revolver in one pocket and a tomahawk in
the other. Fortunately he was disarmed
before he could do any bodily harm.
“Tonner”: Barrier Daily Truth has
celebrated its 21st birthday. Its career has
been stormy, and many editors have come
and gone (Bob Ross, Will Jones, Claude
Thompson and Will Ennis among them), but
unionists have no longer to pay levies to keep
it alive, though every member of the W.1.U.,
Barrier district, must take a copy. Editor
Wetherell and manager Dickson have had
record reigns.
The latest little journalistic stranger in
Sydney is Flying, the organ of the N.S.W.
Aero Club. The first issue is an impres-
sive affair with a fine colored cover and
heaps of illustrations.
“F.S.”: Bernard Cronin continues to
receive letters from the mysterious Brent of
Bin Bin, whose book “Up the Country”
was highly praised by a Bulletin reviewer.
Cronin has a theory that the writer is a
lady, and readers of the novel will be in-
clined to agree with him. Mr. or Mrs.
Brent is engaged on another work.
“Lao-dah”: The announcement of E. A.
Parr, a Melbourne bookseller, that imported
books will soon be cheaper in Australia
brings no comfort to Australian writers who
are compelled to get their works printed in
the Cold Land. Publishers’ agreements with
these writers stipulate that royalties on
sales in “the colonies” shall stick at 10 p.c.
of the actual sum received, which is usually
less than half the price the public has paid.
As an example, the author and illustrator
of a recent unusually successful book divided
£4O between them out of gross sales amount-
ing to £9OO. Royalties in England and
America rise to 20 or even 25 p.c. if sales
exceed 3000.


OFFER! THE LATEST i
AND DEIT TYPE- OF- /
50 CWT.'
THE BADGER
is one of the toughest of
fighters. It is difficult to
kill. The only chance any
animal of its size has in
combat is to send out
an SOS to his rela-
tions, who then
attack “en masse.”
The Badger inflicts
terrible punishment
on its aggressors
before being van-
quished.
jevland,
BADGER.
2/2 TON
[ik
ISM
m
UYLAND. LANCS.
tnamt
The “Badger” 21 ton. A new design available in two
wheelbase sizes: lift. 9in. for tippers and 14ft. 6in. for
merchandise.
A great number of new features, including electric
starter, lighting and horn; air filter; mechanical tyre
pump; pneumatic tyres and magnificent instrument board,
including speedometer and clock.
Wonderful new springing. Engine develops 39 b.h.p. at
1000 r.p.m.
Delivered complete . . . positively NO extras to buy.
CHASSIS PRICES:
lift. 9in. Wheelbase £B5O
14ft. 6in. Wheelbase, £l5 extra.
OTHER CHASSIS AVAILABLE:
3| ton “Beaver”; 4-5 ton 6-wheel “Terrier”;
4 & 6 ton Models; Single and Double-deck ’Buses.
FURTHER DETAILS ON REQUEST. DEMONSTRATIONS ARRANGED.
an
o
rs
dfcfch
ENGLAND
Head Office for Australia:
24 Grosvenor Street,
SYDNEY.
Melbourne Depot:
Comer Villiers & Courtney Streets,
NORTH MELBOURNE.
Service Station:
Australia Street,
CAMPERDOWN.
Brisbane Depot:
Grey Street, SOUTH BRISBANE.
West Aust. Depot:
Royal Street, EAST PERTH.
by using a
€4
SAFETY RAZOR BLADE
Made of a special steel with extra keen edges
that last and give more shaves per blade.
For all Gillette and Auto-Strop holders.
Agent for Australia: H. E. UTTLEY,
Margaret House, 282 George Street, Sydney.
Manufactured bv Kirby, Beard & Co., Ltd.,
Need'.e and Pin Manufacturers,
Ilavenliurst Works,
Birmingham,
England.
A
o
&
Ofc
<2
O*
&
L/sc cr BEARD to shove a heard
amM
->3
r
s:
r.
JT
%
FOR
SOOTHES
PAIN —
GROWS NEW
SKIN.
CUTS ♦ BRUISES ♦ BURNS
SCALDS ♦ ECZEMA ♦ RASH
PRICKLY HEAT ♦ SUNBURN
INSECT BITES ♦ SEPTIC SORES
S OTHER SKIN TROUBLES
Zam-Buk Ointment 1/6 <S- 3/6 box.
Medicinal Soap Ip pet Tablet.
To
be
of the
sure
nal
look
gi
on
for
th
name
WEED
every
on
hook
ALMOST impassable
- roads are made nav-
igable for the truck or
bus equipped with WEED
TYRE CHAINS.
Weed Chains grip and
hold —they furnish the
traction necessary to take
one steadily through soft,
miry mud, sand or clay.
No truck or bus should
ever be without Weed
Chains. Keep them ready
for immediate use when
road conditions warrant.
Orderfromyourdealer.
WEED
TYRE CHAINS
1507


Firearms Sent C.O.D.
d
HI-POWER RIFLES will make
the KANGA-ROO THE DAY.
Savage .22 Hi-power Rifles, £lO/15/-,
£ll/15/- and £l3. Savage 250/3000 Hi-
power Rifles, £ll/15/- arid £l3. Mauser
6.5 M/M and 250/3000 Hi-power Rifles, £l5 ;
with Zeiss Telescope, „£.2,4. Mannlicher-
Schonnauer 6.7 M/M Hi-power Rifles, £lB/10/-
and £2O; with Telescope, £3O. B.S.A. 303
Hi-power Rifles, £ll/15/- and £l4/10/-
Write for Catalogue.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
’Phone MA3540,
Gunsmith, Importer of High-grade Firearms,
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
1438 Elizabeth Street (near Market
Street), Sydney.
You must try this
LIGHT BEER
RESCH’S
PILSENER
A Drink to Delight You
When you come to
SYDNEY
You will find at Usher’s every essen-
tial to the enjoyment of your visit.
Hotel service that is homelike,
cuisine of rare excel-
lence, and that
friendly hospitality
which you desire.
Telephone and run-
ning water in all
rooms. Book accom-
modation early.
Bed
and
° re *kfast
Tariff
desired
Special tariff or inclusive terms.
OPP. THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
’Phone 86511 (10 lines).
Cable & Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel,” Sydney.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Duncan’s fall off. Quick Reward at Epsom
(Vic.) on November 23 may lead to that ■
wizard horseman permanently, retiring fr(Sm
the'saddle.' At'first he was-thought 'to have
sustained only a broken; collar-bone, but
an X-ray - examination revealed partial
fracture of one vertebra l and.’dislocation of;
another. In other words,'Duncan went peri-
lously close to'losing liis life, and the sur-
geon’s view is that lie ought never to- resume
riding.- Fortunately, the crack jockey‘ is in
a strong financial position.
In Duncan’s absence, Melbourne punters
are like a flock without a shepherd. The ill-
ness of E. A. Connolly, who had rnn > ajar min g
heart attack, further complicates "matters.
Hordes of backers used to blindly support
Duncan’s mounts or follow Connolly’s lead in
the ring. Duncan’s admirers might have
transferred their allegiance to Scanlon, but*
that jockey leaves for France early in January,
having accepted a retainer to ride for Frank'
Bullock’s millionaire Belgian patron. "-Frank
Dempsey has no thick-and-thin supporters
now, but occasionally he shows glimpses of
former genius, as when he squeezed' Melanie
(7 to 1) home in advance of Crouse in the
Trial Welter at Sandown Park last Saturday.
Dempsey hates being in a crush, but if. clear
of the ruck lie can demonstrate real artistry.
Urbani let back; rs down badly in the
Hurdle Race at Sandown Park. His stable-
mates, Henare and Cable, had each scored
twice over the battens for .1. Fell, and
Urbani’s third to Cable and Echelon on Wil-
liamstown Cup day led to his being a warm
favorite at Sandown. However, the Quaestor
gelding would neither jump nor gallop gener-
ously. Success went to Gipsy Verse (11 to
2), winner over brush fences a week before.
Pixie Lad, who followed her home, is owned
by S. W. Biggins, whose colors were carried
to brilliant victory in the Sandown Park
Handicap by Nagrada (10 to 9 on). Biggin’s
horses are being looked after by his fore-
man, the “boss” being out of Victoria.
Adam Skirving’ went close to landing a
double for “S. A. Eawdon.” Neoxena (by
Drake) lost the Juvenile Handicap to
Amanites (9 to 2) by a mere head, while
Strogoff (by Lanius), going out at eights,
vanquished Lady Yarborough in the Sandown
Plate by a similar margin. Skirving wisely
chose Scanlon as jockey. Scanlon’s vigor
and determination enabled Strogoff to get
up in the last stride. A heavy betting
plunge made Beauliania pronounced favorite
for the Plate; but the Featherstitch geld-
ing, with Dempsey up, gave a sorry dis-
play.
Torlonia, another of the Rawdon prads,
ran second in the first division of the Purse,
which Varquador (5 to 1) captured in liand-
some style. Bob Lewis finished a close
third on his brother’s neddy, Idle Time, who
had been backed from 5 to 2 to half those
odds. Mahatma (5 to 2, favorite) failed
signally in the second division of the Purse,
won by Buckland (4 to 1). The conclud-
ing event went to the favorite, Savoureux
(4 to 1), trained by Jack James, the dis-
tinguished trotting reinsman.
❖ :Jc ❖
The Bendigo Cup, a race on which
Joe Thompson and other leviathans fielded
merrily in the ’seventies, was won last week by
H. W. Morton with Master Lunette, who had
been kept in cotton wool for the occasion.
Morton had a pretty considerable team when
lie trained for the late Albert Thurgood, but
one personally-owned horse satisfies him now.
He is a close friend of James Seobie, who
trained more Bendigo Cup winners than any
man in the game.
* * * *
For Moonee Valley on Saturday:
Hurdle Race: Patroleus ; next, Pixie Lad.
Fund Handicap: Reputed King; next,
Standard Bearer.
Sydney owner-trainer O’Rourke has done
well lately with the black pony Ila Tait,
by Magpie—Galtee Princess. His little mare
is getting on for eight, but in the first division
of the Flying Handicap at Canterbury Park
on Saturday she showed that she can give
years, inches and weight to most of the
suburban platers. Favorite at evens, she
carried 101 b. more than the second horse,
Gritall, and 131 b. more than Certificate,
the other place-getter. Ila Tait’s dam, Galtee
Princess, did her racing in Westralia, where
she was very smart.
She lias proved a
great brood mare;
Boaster was one
of her offspring.
O’Rourke also
saddled up the win-
ner of the second
division of the
Flying Handicap, a
Maoriland - bred
chestnut called
Prince Otto (3 to
1), by Nassau-
Dovelet. The
stablemates put up
the same time for
the six : furlongs,
‘lmin. 13sec.
Though Frances
.Cyllene had car-
ried off the, pre-
vious middle-dis-
tance race on the
course in go o d
style, she was
■neglected by the
majority of backers
for the Canter-
bury Handicap.
Most of them want-
ed nothing but
Western Lass, who
went out at 6 to
4. Seaton’s mare
had the services of
the elder Munro,
but third .was the
best-she- could do,
Frances Cyllene
winning by lengths
from Bill Jim. As
before, the daugh-
te r of Cyllene
More —My Lady
was ridden by Den-
ham, who is stead-
ily making a name
for himself. Eights
was the closing
pri C e, but tens
could be got.
La Gloria (5 to 1), owned and trained
by an elder brother of .Timmy and Darby
Munro, captured a division of the Nursery
Handicap very smartly. Jimmy Munro was
on the favorite, Going On, who ran second.
Nan Ivourgan (4 to 1) showed that her
forward l-unning against Papatu and other
decent horses at Warwick Farm was no
fluke by taking the Welter Handicap. Bav-
acre (6 to 1) failed to give her 221 b., but
ran a capital race.
❖ ❖ ❖ %
For Warwick Farm to-day (Wednesday) :
Horsley Handicap : Cleave ; next, Newsore.
Farm Handicap: Nan Kourgan; next,
Western Lass.
Leumeali Handicap : Sunflare; next, Cool
Dan.
Three- and Four-year-old Handicap:
Black Douglas ; next, Bill Jim.
* * * *
Commendation, whom an enthusiastic
owner rated better than Limerick early last
season, is back in Sydney again and figures
among the nominations for the Villiers
Stakes and the Summer Cup. He has 9st.
41b. in the mile race and 9st. in the Cup.
If he is within a stone of Limerick’s best
form he could win either, if not both; but
he is unlikely to be backed with much spirit
until he shows some form. Gesto (Bst. llb.),
looks to have a decided chance in the Villiers
and Sunflare (7st. 71b.) in the Cup; but
Sunflare seems to require a firm track.
* * x x
“Ad”: Onkaparinga (S.A.) Club, which
races on Easter Monday only, announces
that it will have to follow the city _ clubs'
example in reduction of .stakes, owing to
the steady fall in totalisator takings. The
main event, the Great Eastern Steeple,
comes down from £3OOO to £2OO0 —£1500 to
the winner. The hurdles will remain at
£550, and be called after H. D. Young, tlie
club’s chairman.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Two practically unknown scrappers. Jack
Harris (Sst. 101 b.), of Melbourne, and Ted
Nelson (9st. 31b.), a local boy and son of
an old-time champion, supplied a stirring
bout at Sydney Stadium. Nelson won in the
seventh round, his lialf-stone advantage in
weight being a big factor. The pair fought
like tigers; Nelson -was down in the first
round but returned the compliment in the
fourth. Then his weight began-to tell
and, after the smaller man had visited the
canvas twice in the seventh, the referee
called a halt and crowned Nelson the winner.
* sis X X
As lacking in science as sawdust is m
vitamines, but possessing some power of
wallop, Pat Appleton (list. 511 b.), of Tas-
mania, did a workmanlike job in stopping
Dave Jackson (list. 91b.) in four rounds at
IT’S AN ILL WIND.
FIRST EXPERT ( discussing injury to’keeper): “Betcha that cove’s
lost ’is eye.”
SECOND DITTO: " Let’s ’ope th’ flamin’ umpire finds it; ’e could
do with another.”
Melbourne Stadium, after spilling the Sydney-
sider for counts of eight and seven respec-
ticely.
The Ins and Outs
Going in on a good wicket against Queens-
land in Brisbane, Gilligan’s Englishmen
found the Queensland bowling a great im-
provement on that encountered in Sydney.
The side was dismissed for 171, Gilligan
doing well with a hard-hit 53, while Duleep-
sinjhi contributed 68. Ron Oxenham bowled
finely to get 4 for 37, and fast bowler Hur-
wood (4 for 48) also came off. Queensland’s
first innings totalled 248, Levy, the ex-
Waverley batsman, contributing a sparkling
S 6: Gough (52) helped in a valuable stand.
Nicholls, who was not seen in Sydney,
bowled really good fast stuff, taking 8 fox-
-65. On Monday the Englishmen had lost
9 wickets for 240, Oxenham and Hornibrook
troubling the batsmen. Gilligan, with 58,
bi-ought off a useful double for his side.
Ducat, the Surrey professional who is coach-
ing in Queensland, played for the visitors,
but failed to get going in either iunings.
“Gabba” : The only jarring aspect of the
visit of the English cricketers was their
obvious desire to dodge the Brisbane trip
at all costs. Compelled by the commonest
rules of courtesy to stick to their agree-
ment, they rubbed their attitude in by ship-
ping Frank Woolley and Cornford, two of
the team’s chief attractions, to Maoriland.
The excuse made for Woolley was that
lie had injured a rib in Melbourne. Those
who saw him smiting the N.S.W. bowlers
at the Cricket Ground and bowling
over after over in specially hot weather will
raise an inquiring eyebrow. For Cornford
.no excuse at all was made. To do the
Britons justice they were egged on by that
section of the Sydney press which has not
yet recovered from the shock of losing a
Test match with Chapman’s men to Bris-
bane.
* * * *
“Tenakoe”: The Maoriland cricket authori-
ties have decided to accept the English invi-
tation to send a team over in 1931. It had
been the original intention to pay these visits
at intervals of six or seven years, but the
rule is to be waived on this occasion to per-
mit some of the cracks who were in the
last team to represent the Dominion before
losing their form. An unusual note is struck
in the council’s report. It is a reference
to the council’s desire to guard against the
young men of M.L. playing so much cricket
that their life’s work may be prejudiced or
affected. That is a worthy objective, even
if the announcement falls on deaf ears in
professional-ridden Australia.
* * :'s X
“Adelaide”: “Pons” (B. 13/.11/’29) says
that Adelaide is “about to copy” the signal
flash that Sydney’s scoring-board shows
against each fieldsman’s name as he gets
busy. Of Melbourne that would be true;
but Adelaide had this useful gadget all
through last season.
* x X X
“Hamer”: The winning of the N.S.W.
G.P.S. 1929 cricket championship has been
almost a one-man performance; Rivcrview,
which has never before been within cooee
of a premiership, has at last won to the top
rung. Tom Parsonage—there are two Par-
sonages in the ’View team —certainly had
the assistance of W. Bull, who put up a
G.P.S. record by capturing 78 wickets during
the season; but his own performance in
the match with Newington, 125 runs and 4
wickets for 26, was fairly typical of his
achievements. Incidentally, he has made
1117 runs for the season —a record
that has been iiaralleled before, but not in
conjunction with the fine bowling figures
Parsonage can show. The lad looks to be
the best cricketer from the G.P.S. ranks
since Johnny Taylor.
X X X
“Ebor” : What a lot some of these press
cricket experts don’t know. One of them,
airing his omniscience the other day in a
Sydney paper, remarked that, though Wil-
frid Rhodes was an outstanding success in
the Oval Test match of 1926, he was harm-
less on his previous visits to Australia. I
have not Wilfrid’s Australian figures by me,
but have a vivid recollection of one perfor-
mance in this country which lifts him out
of the “harmless” class. That was his 15
wickets for 124 in the first Test in Mel-
bourne in 1904, when the Tyke was here
with Warner.
(Continued on page Ijt.)
“Shmguard”: The Australian Hockey
Association has been pressed for some time
to send a team to Suva, in the Fijis, where
once the noble savage played the game with
the skulls of his eaten enemies for balls
and their thigh-bones for sticks. Visitations
by Maoriland teams have brought Fijian
hockey to a high standard, and not only
the white bxxt the native and the imported
Hindu have taken kindly to the sport. The
Australian body has decided to accept the
latest invitation, and the trip will be made
next season. If all the States are unable to
take part in the tour, it is probable that
Queensland, N.S.W. and Victoria will supply
the personnel of the team.
* * -X: *
The Kangaroos have sustained their fourth
defeat in the North of England, Swinton,
one of the strongest of the Lancashire
Northern Union clubs, beating them 9-5
after the visitors had led 5-2 at half-time.
The ground was in very bad condition, and
the game was rough.
* * * *
“Blue Chalk”: Beginning another match
against Willie Smith in London last week,
Walter Lindrum started off in characteristic
fashion with a four-figure break, his thir-
teenth since he began liis season in Britain,
six weeks ago. The highest number of breaks
over a thousand in one season stands to the
credit of Willie Smith, who can claim 15.
It took William 10 matches to get together
his total, while Walter reached his score at
the beginning of liis fourth match in Britain.
Lindrum’s feat of five “thousands” and one
break over 900 within five days in his last
match with Smith has never been approached.
THE OIL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
About the flat, from book to book,
A Semite stole with knowing look,
A wizened Yid with beady eyes
And feet above the normal size.
At every stand he croaked his quest:
“Yat price Miss Voile, eh—vat’s yer best?”
And always back the answer flew:
"Miss Voile is six to four, to you.”
And then the Jew would sidle near
And try to gain the ringman’s ear;
"Say, give me two to one Miss Voile,
And I’ll give you some dinkum oil.”
But oil from such a source as that
Was at a discount on the flat;
Yet unabashed lie went his way
To seek a more responsive prey.
Attracted by a raucous voice
That ra//ped a varied equine choice,
H’e shuffled in and made his plea ■ »
In tones that whispered mystery.
The bookie stopped and scratched his head ;
“How much d’yer want?” he roughly 'said.
“Two pound to one, and ’ere’s me qvid,
Give me the ticket,” urged the Yid.
The bookie shot another glance,
Then scrawled the brief and looked askance.
“Give us the ticket,” pressed the Jew,
“And then I’ll give the oil to you.”
“There’s two to one then —what d’yer
know?”
Ike grasped the card and turned to go;
Then, pointing to’rds the paddock’s blare,
He said, “She’s evens over there.”
N.S.W.
FRED AARONS.


Lubricate
your machinery
as you do your car
by tbe
TecalemiT
High Pressure System
TECALEMIT SERVICE STATIONS:
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street Perth
Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street Adelaide
Keep Bros. & Wood Pty., Ltd., Bateman Street Melbourne
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt Street Sydney
Martin, Wilson Bros., Ltd., 299 Adelaide Street Brisbane
Factory Representative: Mr. JAMES THORNELL, 312 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
TECALEMIT, LTD., Mitre House, Scrubbs Lane, London, N.W. 10., England.
d
There are seven
reasons why
1
ď
IS GOOD FOR YOU
No. 1
FOR
STRENGTH
Guinness builds
strong muscles
for sport —strong
nerves for those
under physical
strain. Famous
doctors say that
it is very valuable in cases of mental
or physical exhaustion.
The best proof is the test you make
for yourself. As you drink a glass of
Guinness you feel better at once —
you feel that it is putting strength
into you.
Try a Guinness every day with
your dinner. There can be no more
pleasant way of improving appetite,
digestion and general fitness.
N.B. —One pint of Guinness Foreign Extra Stout has a malt
carbohydrate content equal to one and a half pints of pure dairy milk.
EXCEPTIONAL VALUE IN STOCK SADDLES
d
A CAPPED-PAD
SADDLE
FULLY MOUNTED FOR
£B/15/-
No. 124 STOCK SADDLE is wonderful value
for the money, built on a plated bar tree, with
pigskin seat, capped kneepads and long
kip flaps. The panel is leather pointed, and it
is mounted with double-buckled girth, leather
surcingle, bevelled leathers and n.-p. stirrups.
If you do not need a surcingle the price is
£B/7/6. For cash with order we will pay
freight to any N. S. Wales railway station.
WRITE FOR OUR SADDLERY CATALOGUE
SHOWING
Saddle Bags from 8/6. Quart Pots and Cases from 12/-.
Bridles, with Bit, from 15/-. Pony Bridles from 13/9.
Boys’ Stockwhips from 3/6, and a host of serviceable
things suitable for Christmas Presents.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON, LTD.
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (Box 785 G.).
mm
K
Babv BEVERLEY
BROOK. Her mother
writes : "My baby
Beverley, aged. 12
months has been
washed with Rexona
Soap since birth, and
she has beautiful skin
and hair. I highly
recommend Rexona
Soap to all my
friends.”
Tender skin needs care
Isn’t your baby the best ever ? Doesn’t she deserve the
best soap for her delicate skin and hair ?
Only Rexona Soap is good enough for Baby.
If you would have your baby bright and attractive, she
must look well, and feel well.
Only the best of care, and Rexona Soap is what Baby
is entitled to.
She should have her chance in the world —see that you
do your part by giving her the best possible soap—
Rexona Soap —the soap that has helped to make so many
beautiful Rexona Babies.
For a Baby’s tender skin, for a woman’s beautiful com-
plexion, or the strong body of an active man, Rexona
Soap gives refreshing, soothing skin vigor.
Price 1/- per tablet .
MWTT
1-1
1
1
REXONA
RSISR


Victoria Means Variety
The stupendous panoramas of
BUFFALO and the placid, rippling
beauty of the GIPPSLAND LAKES—
The sandstone crags and peaks of the
GRAMPIANS and the sweet-smelling
charm of HEALESVILLE —
The thunder of surf along Victoria’s
gold and azure coastline, and the clean,
fresh winds, across the BOGONG
HIGH PLAINS.
ALL THESE AND A HUNDRED
AND ONE OTHER VARIED
DELIGHTS VICTORIA OFFERS
THE TOURIST.
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU
Queen’s Walk, Melbourne,
Martin Place, Sydney,
will help you to make your choice.
Winchester Rifle, Model 56.
22-Cal. Long Rifle only
Handles well
and
Shoots well.
d
Write for Catalogue B.
The Rifle
for Small Game
Price, £5. Post free to all parts of
Australia.
The Gun House,
COWLES <& DUNN
453 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
ii
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
Gert ; "Hallo ! Bert?
Eject: ft Hallo! gert?^
GERT’/V/HAT EVER M 5& you
DO\hl<G ? w
£>Et£T I "UIJST A, LITTLE WEEDING,”
The Ins and Outs
“Tenth Slip”: The teams for the Aus-
tralian XI trial game in Sydney panned
out much as was expected. There was a
genuine feeling of relief when it was seen
that one or two hoary veterans with a
"good press” behind them had been dropped. It
is to be hoped that the precedent will be
adhered to. About the only fault to find with
the sides was the omission of Halcombe,
a young Westralian fast bowler who has
earned more than a passing reputation. For
the first time for years Tasmania has
gained recognition, a’Beckett’s inability to
play having left room for Burrows, a bowler
who took 7 for 130 against N.S.W. at
Sydney Cricket Ground last year, and has
other good performances in first-class com-
pany to his credit. If Burrows “clicks” for
the Australian XI —and almost any decent
howler has a chance this time —he will be
the first Tasmanian since C. J. Eady to gain
the honor, unless one counts Tasmanian-
born E. A. McDonald.
* * * *
"Hotham”: If anyone had whispered in
Melbourne a couple of seasons ago that
Ponsford would some day be hooted on a
local cricket ground, he would have met
with a fate as swift and merciless as that
of a Victorian football umpire. Yet the
impossible has happened. Batting for St.
Kilda against Richmond, Ponsford was given
the bird by a section of the barrackers who did
not approve of his leisurely batting methods.
Of course, it was the Richmond contingent
which made the fuss. The St. Kilda aristoc-
racy could only sit in frozen aloofness, and
pray for the fire which failed to fall upon
the scoffers.
v *l* V tjl
“Mid Leg”: The Board of Control will
send 16 players to England instead of
15. The modern cricketer seems to
be an effeminate bird. Consider the
awful programme the early Australian
Elevens had to face in England, with rarely
more than a dozen men on the side. Nowa-
days a player goes off for the afternoon if
he strains his hootlace. Even if they can
stand up to the fearful strain of making a
100 runs in 500 minutesj which is about
what the best of them are capable of, they
have to be massaged and violet-rayed. Take
the case of the Gilligan team, which has
had a lot of casualties. The first thing they
did on arrival in Sydney was to make for
a physical-culture establishment. Would
the old-timers have done that? Not) on your
life; their beeline would have been for the
nearest pub, and they played all the better
cricket because of it.
* * * *
“R.P.11.”: Touching the statement that
the Gordon district club has adopted new
colors, red, white and green (B. 23/11/’29),
I venture to point out that this is not
an adoption, but a reversion. The
proper colors arc red, green and silver
in stripes: red lin., green |in. and silver
iin., the old Nomad colors. As first lion,
sec. to the club I should know, as it was on
my suggestion that the club adopted these
colors.
❖ ❖ # Jj:
“Tenth Slip”: The match between the
Gilliganites and N.S.W. ended in a draw, the
Englishmen requiring 261 to win with 3
wickets down in the fourth innings. The
outstanding feature of the match was the
shocking quality of the N.S.W. bowling, cer-
tainly the worst and the most stereotyped
seen on the Cricket Ground for many years.
The Englishmen were a lot better in this
respect, and were unfortunate in that injury
prevented slow-bowler Bowley from adding
some variety to the attack. Worthington
impressed most among the visiting trundlers,
but here again too many of the same type
were in evidence. A century by Jackson pro-
tracted the N.S.W. innings until all chance
of reaching a definite decision had vanished,
when Ivippax, by no means the ideal captain,
sent the visitors to the wickets again. The
most interesting of the visiting batsmen, per-
haps, was Turnbull, the Cambridge and
Glamorgan captain, whose century in the
first innings was marked by Test-match form.
❖ * * *
“Johnny H.”: An unusual bowling per-
formance took place recently in the St.
George v. Cumberland Poidevin-Gray shield
match. Theak’s first over was a maiden. In
his second he captured three wickets (clean
bowled), two with consecutive balls. The
score was four for four. Bunting clean
bowled Armstrong in the following over,
bringing the score to five for five. Then,
by way of variation, Temple was caught by
Turner in the next over, and Cumberland’s
figures were six for six.
The Watermen
“Shell”: The brilliant victory of Bobby
Pearce in the 2000 metres sculls in Sydney
the other day has somewhat obscured the
fine performance of the young Haberfield
sculler, J. R. Scott. This lad won the Yarra
Challenge Cup at Heriley-on-Yarra recently,
in the absence of Pearce, and showed himself
far superior to the Victorian opposition and
that from his own State. In the 2000-metres
event he finished only four lengths behind
the Australian and Olympic champion, and
as the latter knocked 21 4-ssec. off his own
world’s record for the distance, Scott’s form
places him in the near-champion class.
* * * ' *
“Glenelg”: The South Australian rowing
authorities, who are in charge of the event
this year, have arranged that the races for
the King’s Cup and the Australian champion
sculls shall be postponed from May 3 to
May 10. This year all the States will be
represented at Mannum, where the race will
be rowed, and the postponement will enable
the crews to get special rail concession rates
which would not be available for the earlier
date, an important matter, especially to
Queensland and Westralia.
$ . $ # *
“Toowong”: Queensland, which did not
send a crew to last year’s King’s Cup race
at Perth, intends to be represented at Adel-
aide in May next. Money, as usual, is the
stumbling block, but an early start has been
made to raise the required funds. It has
not yet been decided whether to select a
special crew or send the winners of the
State champion eights. The latter practice
has been followed for years past.
$ * * *
“Mannum”: Horton Wallman, president
of the South Australian Rowing Associa-
tion since the death of W. G. Auld in 1926,
has been one of the stalwarts of South Aus-
tralian rowing. He figured on a couple of
occasions for Adelaide University in the
inter-’varsity races for the Oxford and Cam-
bridge Cup, and represented his State in
1907. He has also been a keen track athlete,
and for some years held a rather unusual
double, the State championships for the 120
hurdles and the half-mile on the flat.
Racquet and Bawl
New South Wales had a narrow squeak
in the inter-State tennis match with Victoria
at Melbourne, winning by a bare rubber.
Jack Crawford was in brilliant form, down-
ing Schlesinger and Hawkes, while Jim Wil-
lard, who greatly improved his Davis < Cup
prospects, did the same, though Schlesinger
took a set from him. Ilopman did well in
the doubles with Crawford, though the pair
succumbed to Hawkes and O’Hara Wood.
Willard and Dunlop, who were expected to
do something out of the common in the
doubles, unexpectedly flopped to H'assett and
Teague by two sets to one. The Victorian
women were too strong for the N.S.W. con-
tingent, minus Daphne Akhurst, the visitors
going down by 7 rubbers to 5. Victoria won
the men’s match against South Australia,
which was without Car Hone, by 15 rubbers
to 6, the home side also getting home in the
women’s tourney by 7 rubbers to 5.
* * *' *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: At long last the
Australian Tennis Council has taken its
courage in both hands and decided to enter
an Australian team for the Davis Cup. It
is to be hoped this time that the measly
spirit of economy which landed the last
team in Europe so late that there was little
chance of settling down will not prevail.
Given moderate luck, the Australian team
should go far in the preliminary rounds, and
may figure against either America or Ger-
many in the final round'. At least four men
should be taken, after the lessons of the last
fiasco; the Australian body is financial
enough to afford it.
* * * *
“Money Up”: That visit of the tennis
professionals Richards and Kozoluh (B.
27;/11/’29) may not eventuate. The pair
asked for such a wad down in addition to
travelling and maintenance expenses that the
Australian responsibles came close to faint-
ing. However, they recovered sufficiently to
cable asking the possible visitors to have a
heart, and to offer terms. These have not yet
been made public, but are understood to
amount to expenses and a cut of the gates.
If the Yanks are not too greedy, they should
come at the offer. They will be a big draw,
and the record of the Borotra-Brugnon crowd
in the matter of pulling big money should
be a sufficient indication that Australians
will flock to see tennis played by visiting
teams. The trouble is that we do not get
enough of them.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Amateur Pro.”: Golf matches for money
stakes between profesionals are rare in Aus-
tralia, and that between F. Eyre and W.
Corry and Fred Popplewell and Don Spence,
played last week at Manly and the Austra-
lian Club links at Kensington, attracted a
lot of attention. The stake was £5O, and
the match a four-ball one, over 72 holes.
At Manly, Eyre and Corry were 5 up, and
at lunch on the second day maintained that
lead. Then came a great recovery by Popple-
well and Spence, both of them winners of
the State professional championship. The
players were all square at the 35th. A
seven-foot putt at the 36th saw Eyre land
the match for himself and his partner, 1
up.
sjt :J; 'V- ❖
“Brassey”: The first • mixed foursomes
championship of N.S.W., played at the Aus-
tralian Club’s Kensington links, came to an
unusual conclusion for a match of this sort,
for it was won by two players who are
accepted as being in the first class, of their
own particular divisions in Australia, F. G.
Murdoch and Miss Wray. Usually on
these occasions a pair of unknowns come
with a run on the rails and get the verdict.
The favorites, Hector Morrison, resident
State champion, and Mrs. Clements, State
associate champion, were beaten, and it
wasn’t Mrs. Clements’s fault, either. The
winners went round in 83 and 79. Miss
Wray is the holder of the Australian women’s
championship, and Murdoch has won both
the N.S.W. and Victorian amateur titles.
* * * *
“The McHaggis”: It may be accepted that
Australian golf courses are for the most
part far too easy. The result is that when
our players, amateur or professional, show
up on the elaborately difficult links of Britain
they are shown up—the man who can aver-
age a little worse than 4’s in Australia is
fortunate if he can return a card of 6’s at
Deal or Prestwick. Victoria at least is
trying to remedy matters in this direction.
The Yarra Yarra club’s new course is an
example, and clubs with established links
like the Commonwealth and the Victorian are
altering the lay-out of their courses and re-
bunkering with a free hand, while more than
one country course is following suit. Most
of the N.S.W. metropolitan clubs go to the
other extreme, offering facilities for what
may truly be called parlor golf.
* * * :J:
“Leasowe” : Dead in England, at 84, Jack
Morris, the oldest of the world’s professional
golfers. A scion of the famous Scottish golf-
ing family of the same name, Jack never
rose to the giddy heights attained by “Old
Tom” and “Young Tom” Morris, but as a
coach had few equals. He was the original
professional at Hoylako when the club was
founded in 1869. For 50 years he was one
of the features of the local landscape, and
the Royal Liverpool paid him the unusual
honor, in the case of a professional, of elect-
ing him an honorary life member of the club
on his retirement.
* * * *
“Prestwick”: Tipping for services already
paid for is the curse of the modern world.
There has been an uprising lately in Britain
among golfers who are finding that unless
they tip the caddies, whom they pay, they
are likely to have a bad round. Everyone
knows the racecourse punter who says to
the trainer or jockey: “You’re on the odds
to a tenner if you win.” There are nasty
hints in British golfing journals which sug-
gest similar conditions in the Royal and
Antient game. The custom of promising a
caddie a sovereign if the player wins, “and
even larger amounts than that,” is described
as “an insufferable state of affairs.” In
Australia one prominent club posts an
addendum to its list of caddies’ fees—a sug-
gestion as to the maximum amount of the
tip which should be paid.
* * * *
“Hlawarra”: The latest golf course to
blossom in the vicinity of Sydney is that
of the Bankstdwn club, which is quite acces-
sible from Sydney now that the new railway
deviation has become an accomplished fact.
A lot of trouble has been taken with the
course, of which the first nine holes are now
ready for play. The fairways have been
ploughed, harrowed and planted with couch
grass, and are superior in many respects to
a lot of those which members of some of
the big metropolitan clubs have to put up
with, while the greens are in splendid buckle.
The cow menace is the only fly in the oint-
ment. In bygone days it was difficult to
try a practice swing in the Bankstown area
without disturbing a cow or some evidence
of her existence. Possibly that is an old story
now.
* * *
“Hoylake”: Recent mention of mixed
foursomes calls attention to the fact that
the foursome is going cut of fashion in the
Old Country, where the four-ball match has
taken its place. The four-ball game not only
calls for better team work, but it does not
expose a player who is doing well to the
soul-shattering task of having to clean up
the mess his partner has made. He stands
or falls on his own merits, and this makes
for keener play and leaves little room for
recrimination. The ideal combination is that
adopted by Vardon and Ray, in the United
States, where they cleaned up all opposition
in this form of play. According to an Eng-
lish: golfing journal, Vardon concentrated on
getting par, while Ray went for better than
that at each hole. They did not always
get what they were after, but each was
pitted against his partner, as well as his
opponents.
(Continued on page 41.)


M
Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner a
la carte from 1/6. Inclusive tariff, £4/4/- weekly.
Special quotations for sporting bodies, etc. Situated
right opposite Spencer Street Station, no taxi fares;
railway porter carries baggage across if necessary.
Please write for detailed tariff card. Carlyon’s
Hotel, Melbourne, is sufficient address.
WHAT DOES SPENDING COST?
How much does it cost you to spend £100? The answer is
£1 00 down and at least £4 per annum for the rest of your life.
Yet what man would knowingly spend £lOO that put him
under obligation to pay £4 per year for life.
None, perhaps, but many do it unconsciously when they spend
money that might otherwise have earned interest at 4 per
cent, indefinitely.
Every pound you spend has attached to it an invisible string
of pennies which you spend with it.
Keep your money in a Savings Account and earn, not spend,
4 per cent, interest per annum.
(Übiinonwealtb Savings JBankof Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
centre of Queens/anc/s
'^~ // /££ c/' st/ ngu/sAoct Soc/o/ Life.
Iknnom
-// %
'^=-
Wotel
Magnificent Ball-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal ol
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, witb
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Lines.
Car and Cycle
T ‘^2. rmula ’ : , r -^^ e final figures for the
.N.fe.W . Automobile Club’s closing reliability
and speed trials at Iviama and Gerringong
Beach have taken a long time to work out.
Ihe events included a hill climb, a flying mile
and a' general reliability test. The onlv pos-
sible scored was in class D, where A. W.
lurner’s 4006-c.c. Willys-Knight turned in a
card, as the golfers say, of 250. Close up
o4 as Parle’s 3181-c.c. Delage, with
240. rlie supercharged cars were headed by
11. Taylor’s 1406-c.c. Alvis, with 246.80.
English cars had the up-to-1000-c.c. class
all to themselves, the winner, T. F. Lord,
piling up 247.56 points.
“Brooklands”: British car manufacturers
are beginning to emulate their American
brethren in the matter of stunt “stock car”
performances. Hitherto they have relied on
the specifications to sell other than racing
models, but now they are taking to tile
tracks. About the first performance of its
kind by an English model took place recently
on the Monthlery track, when a Riley stan-
dard tourer, with full road equipment, covered
1000 m.p.h. at an average rate of 05.83 m.p.li.
This is a track record for other than racing
cars, the previous best having been put up
by a sports model of another make.
“Garry”: Harry Le Vack's world's motor-
cycling records of 129.07 m.p.h. for the flying
kilometre and 126.34 m.p.h. for the flying
mile were only allowed to stand for a few
weeks. Ernest Henne, greatest of Con-
tinental riders, knocked chips off them the
other day at Munich, bestriding a B.M.W.
(German) twin, super-charged, of 750c.c.
Le Vack’s Brough-Superior (British) twin
had a capacity or 996c.c. and was not super-
charged. Henne, whose machine and raiment
were streamlined, reached a speed of 134.75
m.p.h. on the flying kilo, and 134.68 m.p.h.
on the flying mile. Also he was the first
motor-cyclist to reach 100 m.p.h. over one
mile, standing start, his speed being 100.58
m.p.h. (previous record, Le Vack, 98.14
m.p.h.). The B.M.W. is a ’bus of the Douglas
type, with opposed cylinders set horizontally.
The stroke is very short (68mm.) in ratio to
the bore (83mm.). On a brake test this tiny
motor developed 50 b.h.p.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: The revival of professional
cycling in Australia has lately been at-
tended by wholesale secessions. Eight leading
Sydney amateurs alone went over during last
month, and it is expected that Les Standen,
brother of the now-famous Jack, will follow
them when he has cleaned up one or two
imminent cycling events. For several years
in the 1890’s and early in the present cen-
tury, professional cycling drew larger crowds
than Test matches. Promoters, riders and
bookmakers combined to kill the game, and
though burial was postponed as long as
possible it came at last, to the relief of a
disgusted public. It will be interesting to see
if history repeats itself.
=5 * * *
“Cash Amateur”: The attempt of one
Sydney cycling-track proprietary to corner
the professional cyclist market in N.S.W.,
following the example of Victoria and
America, has produced an insurrection among
the cash-hunters. A rival concern hopped
into the ring, and the original show threat-
ened disqualification and other terrors if its
bondsmen had any traffic with the inter-
loper. However, quite a lot of riders have
refused to bow down to the monopoly.
This rivalry will inevitably lead to the rais-
ing of the not-too-generous prize-money
hitherto in evidence, and this unnerving
aspect of the situation suggests a politic
merger, or at least a gentlemen’s agreement,
in the near future.
* * *
“Chain”: One of the party of American
tourists lately in Sydney, W. F. Foster,
once cut some figure in the cycling world.
His proudest boast is that he was the
first man to pedal a mile behind pace in
Imin. 50see., that being in the old “safety”
days. Later lie excelled himself by doing it
in lmin. 36sec., and considering that with
modern pacing the professional record for
a standing start is lmin, 26 3-ssec., the last
was a pretty fair spin. On the roads he
staggered America 34 years ago by riding the
498 miles from San Francisco to Los Angeles
in 41 days,
Miscellaneous
“For’ard Hand” : The smaller these open
sailing-boat classes get the more “dog”
attaches to their contests. In addition to the
18’s and the 16’s, the 14’s, in which one has to
be careful not to sneeze for fear of start-
ing the sheathing—some of ’em are said to
be built of wooden-matcli boxes, with the
used matches for the frames—are holding
their championship with due pomp and cere-
mony. Adelaide is the venue, and January
the appointed time, when N.S.W., South
Australia, Westralia and Victoria will be
there. The title is held by the Adelaide
piedish Scandal, which, as the Victorian-
built and -owned Nimmo, won five Australian
championships. Victoria boasts a dark horse
named Nimmo 11.
“Topping Lift’’; There are alarums and
excursions ir; Sydney open-boat sailing
circles, and especially among the 18’s. The
trouble has arisen out of the responsible
authority's decision to call for volunteers
to make the trip to Brisbane for the inter-
state championships in January. It has
employed the volunteer idea as a basis
for refusing to pay a subsidy to the
craft going to other States, as has been the
custom. As most of the boat crews are men
who cannot afford to make the trip without
assistance, some of the best boats, includ-
ing the holder of the title, H. C. Press, will
not be able to go north.
*** - *
“Hotham" : Following on that speed record
by a homer pigeon (K. 27/11/’29), others of
the same breed have just answered a severe
reliability and endurance test, to quote from
the motor-car dictionary. At 5 a.m. on
November 23 a number of Melbourne birds
were released at Mungindi, on the N.S.W.-
Queensland border. A heavy southerly wind
was blowing in Melbourne all Sunday, but
the first bird, a grizzle cock, owned by G.
McPherson, of Footscray, was clocked in at
6.25 on Sunday evening. Better than 17
m.p.h., including stops for sleep and food,
since the feathered pathfinder carried no
rations.
❖ ❖ *
“Long liest”: The pious hope expressed
by “Blue Chalk” (B. 27/11/’29) that the
crusted conditions of the English professional
billiard championship would be brought up
to date will not be realised. The fossilised
Billiards Control Council insists that the
matches be payed in the tiny hall of one
of the table-makers who control the coun-
cil. This means that only Joe Davis, the
present “champion,” and Tom Newman, a
has-been, Mull compete. Old Melbourne Inman
might be dragged out, but unfortunately John
Roberts and Peel are out of the council’s
reach. To be consistent, the council ought
to insist on a return to ivory balls and list
cushions.
■f * :|: $
“Backwoods” : There is a crusted legend of
how John Roberts once strolled into a bil-
liard-room —in a feu r years it will be Walter
Landrum—and was invited by a flash marker
to a hundred up. The marker gave John a
double baulk, and was flabbergasted when the
great man ran to his points on the first stick.
Something of the sort occurred in a bowls
championship final in England the other
day. The winner took every head, never
allowing his opponent, himself a fine player,
to record a single point. Has Australia any
parallel, M r here first-class players have been
pitted against each other?
x * * *
“Fitzcray”: Dr. Peltzer will definitely be
in Melbourne for the Australian amateur
championships at the end of January. As
the great half-miler’s times are some five
seconds better than anything yet done in
Australia, the local authorities arc evidently
dubious as to wdiether “Tickle” Whyte,
Hunt and Stuart will be able to hold
him. Anyway, they have invited the
American national champion, Leo Leamond,
to come over. But the journey and the
A. ALLSOPP, the country colt from Leeton
(N.S.W.), who has been chosen for the
Australian trial match.
changed conditions may prevent the doctor
from reproducing his overseas form, as has
been the case with more than one visiting
ped, in which case Hunt may shake him
UP- , „ .
Dr. Gustav Hall Bohrsmann, who died in
Sydney last week at the comparatively early
age of 56, was a graduate of Sydney Univer-
sity, and will best be remembered by the
Sydney sporting public as an ardent fol-
lower and patron of boxing and Rugby
Union football. For years he was con-
nected -with Sydney Stadium as medical
officer, and he was mainstay of the famous
Newtown Rugby Union side in the days of
the Farnsworth brothers. On one occasion
he took his club as far north as Charters
Towers, then an important Queensland foot-
ball centre.
* * * *
“Stand Off" : The Australian Rugby Union
authorities have had to make the best of
their bad bargain with the M.L. Union,
and have scattered the seven matches allowed
them against the British side next season
as much as possible. Sydney and Brisbane
offer the only prospect of good gates. The
tourists open in Sydney on August 23 with
the only Test, and as they will have had
ROBERT MILLER, of N.S.W., owner of
Loquacious and other good prads.
little time to find tlieir land legs the home
side should score a win. After playing the
Country at Newcastle, there will be two
games in Queensland, one against the State.
Perhaps a game against an Australian side
can be arranged for the second. Two matches
against N.S.W. follow in Sydney, and the
final game will be against Victoria in Mel-
bourne.. Australia pays all expenses while
the Britons are in this country, and cuts
the net proceeds 50-50 with M.L.
* * * *
“Inverleith”: The Scottish Rugby Union
objected to the inclusion of any of its players
in the team to visit the beastly “colonies”
next season, but was at last prevailed on
to abstain from preventing them. It has
now forbidden its players to adopt the
custom, prevalent in the “colonies” afore-
said, of wearing numbers on their jerseys,
“the practice being professional in origin.”
That, at least, is tosh. The first time iden-
tifying numbers were worn anywhere in a
football match was in the opening R.U. game
in Sydney between N.S.W. and Queensland
in 1896. Queensland introduced the prac-
tice to M.L. that same season, and it lias
now become universal in all codes of foot-
ball, as well as in hockey and other team
games. It was founded, of course, on that
other Australian idea, the numbering of
saddlecloths in racing.
* * * *
“Gate” : The N.S.W. Rugby League under-
went a necessary operation last week, when
jt c °t off one of its original members, the
Glebe district club. Glebe was the second
club to. secede from the Rugby Union, in
which it had achieved distinction, but it
never did much good afterwards. The Glebe
area will be incorporated in Balmain, which
is suffering from the same trouble as that
which caused the demise of the “Dirty Reds”
—the increasing vogue of Soccer football.
Another League club, Annandale, had to
take the knock for the same reason some
years ago. Now that there is money in
Soccer, the League is being seriously threat-
ened in some parts of Sydney, while in many
of the country districts it has been over-
whelmed by the round-ball game.
* * * *
“Third Base” : The N. S. Wales baseball
authorities have called the attention of
players to the growing custom of “abusing
or bickering with the umpires.” This is
a. pleasant American practice, it being con-
sidered almost as important in the home of
the game to rattle the ump. as to put' bats-
men, pitchers or fieldsmen out of their
stride by any means apart from actual bodily
violence. The barracking habits of the Mui-
tomahs during their recent visit to Sydney
were mild as compared with those prevailing-
in the big American professional leagues,
but they have had their influence on a few
local players. Australians, reared in the
cricket tradition, look with disfavor at open
rebellion against the umpire, and the objec-
tionable practice is not likely to spread.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Vil N.”: It had to come. A Launceston
(Tas.) tailor is inviting all and sundry to
trade-in their old suits.
* * * *
"FY7” : Australia still breeds good saddle-
horses and gunner types. By the end of the
month close on 6000 Wafers will have left
their native land for India this year. These
are for the army alone. There have been
considerable private shipments, too, while
purchases are being made for troops in the
Dutch East Indies by a Commission now in
Australia.
* * * *
“Sapi Sapi”: Something new in Austra-
lian coin issues will be the cupro-nickel
currency about to be issued in Mandated
New Guinea. The coins will be of penny
and halfpenny values, pierced in the centre
after the fashion of the Egyptian nickel
coins with which the A.I.F. was so familiar.
They are primarily for native use; the hole
in the middle will enable the pocketless
darky .to bank his currency on a string, as
he did with bis own shell money.
=i= * * *
“A.E.11.” : A mill-owner in southern Tas.
lias solved the labor problem in a manner
that union bosses can’t attack from any
known angle-—he is working his show single-
handed. He fells the trees, trims them, clears
the track, and", doubling back to the mill, puts
the hauler in gear to bring the logs home.
Mis weekly recovery amounts to as much as
6000 super, feet.
* * * #
“Runa”: People interested in the flax
industry beyond the Tasman are hoping
much from the invention of a Maorilander
who has spent 15 years working on his
machine. Hitherto after the flax has been
cut and stripped, the bleaching, usually done
by hanging the fibre over wire-fences, has
taken about a week. By the new process the
green leaf is baled 30 hours after picking.
“C.Q.”: There is still plenty of pioneer-
ing to be done in Australian aviation. The
other day people at the County Roads Board
cottage on Mount Hotham, in the Victorian
Alps, saw the first aeroplane to fly over the
range. Mount Hotham is 6200' feet in
height, and there are immense snowficlds
about it. The machine was piloted by Cap-
tain Roberts, and belongs to the Louis Coen
concern, which employs it for selling wire-
less apparatus.
* * * *
“Borom” : The N.S.W. Anti-Narcotic Act
might well have put chlorodyne on the pro-
hibited list, for it contains opium, and many
drug addicts fall back on it when they can
get nothing better. Another omission was
the neglect to make illegal the sale of
Cannabis indica, or Indian hemp, which may
still be purchased at chemists’ shops. Some-
times it is mixed with ordinary smoking
opium, and its use is most certainly increas-
ng in Sydney.
❖ ❖ ij£
“Gilderfan”: With the completion at
Longreach (Q.) of the Hippomenes, Qantas
now has eight ’planes, all Australian-made
except for the engine. The new ’bus is fitted
with a 450-h.p. Bristol Jupiter, which gives
a cruising speed of 110 m.p.li. and a top
speed of 136 m.p.h. It lias cabin accommo-
dation for four passengers as well as luggage
and mails. Soon it should be possible to
build a completely Australian-made light
’plane incorporating the Sydney-built Hark-
ness Hornet engine, now undergoing Govern-
ment tests at Randwick. Propellers are also
made in Sydney, by Hodge and Dose.
* *
“Cog”: As.regards the excliange-on-cheques
swindle (B. 13/11/’29), the Queensland
Government can give points to other States.
Applicants for areas thiown open for selec-
tion must deposit a cheque covering first
year’s rent and portion of survey fees, plus
exchange, and there is no refund of exchange
if unsuccessful. I applied for a block which
was withdrawn a few days before the ballot
was to have been held. It was balloted for
later, and I was among the also-rans. I paid
four lots of exchange—two on my cheques
to the Government and two on the Govern-
ment’s cheques to me.
*** ‘ *
“Avon” : There was joy in tobacco-growing
circles in M.L. when a London firm ordered
40 bales of their product, but it was short-
lived. The firm wrote to say that even if
the shipment sold satisfactorily it wouldn’t
follow that a permanent market for it had
been established. It was a matter of weaning
the public from its taste for American
tobacco. Thousands of tons of Rhodesian
tobacco were lying unsaleable in stores in
London, and Englishmen wdio went to
Rhodesia to make fortunes as tobacco-plan-
ters were now driving trams. At present the
produce of the 1000 acres or so under tobacco
in M.L. is used by local manufacturers for
blending, and as there is little room for
expansion in that direction the Department
of Agriculture is discouraging extension of
the area under crop.


(p
MW
n
t/l§3
Smart Wear for
the Christmas
Holiday Season
M
warn
mmii'A
II
V
1
I
*,<?A
Some Gift Suggestions
Ties—3/6, 4/6, 5/6 and upwards.
Socks, in fancy boxes—4/6, 5/6,
6/6, 7/6.
Ties and Handkerchiefs to match—-
5/11, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6.
The coming of Christmas brings to most men the task of selecting new attire. Yes,
you really regard it as a task, don’t you? Still, clothes must be bought, and Murdoch s
succeed in making it an easy matter for you after all. The great Murdoch Store caters
for all your clothing needs—you can secure everything in the one visit. Here are examples
of the holiday values awaiting you in all departments!
Dressy Ready-for-Service Suits
An unrivalled Suit value! Splendid quality summer-weight Australian
Tweeds in serviceable mid- or dark-grey shades. Unequalled for fit
and appearance. Graded sizes include regular, stout, short-stout and
slender. Single-breasted style. Coat, vest and trousers complete for
immediate service
59/6
Here is a surprising value which comes to you from “Mill to Wearer
Trading. Dressy Grey Pinhead Worsted Suits in newest fancy effects.
Coat has two-button front, smart roll lapels. Trousers have side and
hip pockets, cuff bottoms. Sizes include regular, stout, short-stout
and slender. Single-breasted style. Ready for service
841-
Murdoch’s Splendid Value in Sports Suits
Australian Woollen Tweed Sports Suits for men. Attractive pattern
effects in smart shades of Greys. For immediate service
Superior quality
70/-
63/-
The Handy Sports Coat
Men’s summer-weight Tweed Sports Coats.
Smartest pattern effects in Grey or Fawn. Fash-
ioned in latest style with half-belt at O /HT /
back, three patch pockets £_) f ea
Smart Flannel Blazers
These all-wool Navy Flannel Blazers embody
comfort, style and service qualities. Con-
trasting colored braid on edges, pocket and
cuffs. Murdoch’s ’’Mill to Wearer
price
27/6
Superior quality 30/-
Cream Gabardine Trousers
Hard-wearing Cream Gabardine Washing
Trousers. Perfectly cut. Side, hip and fob
pockets, side straps, belt loops and 1O j 1 1
cuff bottoms. Ready to wear . . /Cjj I /
Superior quality 17/6
Sports or Tennis Shirts
In White Mercerised, strong-wearing Twill.
Made with collar, pocket and button cuffs • .
(3 for 15/3)
513
MURDOCH’S “Fugiluxe” (Regd'.) —an exclusive Murdoch
material possessing all the main features of real silk, but
priced far below it. “Fugiluxe” (Regd.) shirts
for men
The “Fugiluxe”
wearing quality
12/6
(3 for 36/6) '
(Regd.) Golf Shirt, of splendid 14/6
h -A
aißWlliHailHHj '■
• , ,
"Tr;
A great Store packed
full of big values in
Men’s Wear, Boys’ Wear
and Gifts.
PARK
mm
GEORGE Ss SYDNEY
The World's LargcslMevifs & Boys' Wear Store
Postage paid to your
door.
Write jor our Xmas
Gift Book.
Address all letters to
Desk “R.”


Q/Hakthis
COMM
CL
V*
Columbia
trade mark
MAGIC NOTES
(flirislm
u
Every record in this
Columbia List of Special
Xmas Selections deserves
the careful consideration
of everyone who realises
that it is the Music of Xmas which
brings the Spirit of Xmas into the
home.
Knsitntmetttal
9139
(6/-)
[Organ Medley Of Christmas
Carols and Hymns
In Two Parts
St. Mary-le-Bow Church Organ
_ (Clarence Raybould, Organist) .
01615
(4/-)
u
Vision of Christmastide
Part 1. —Shades of
Christmas Eve
Part 2. —Dawn of
Christmas Morn
H. Squire Celeste Octet.
(Efynral
fChristmas Carols —Selection
y j Christmas Hymns —Selection
The New Sanctuary Quartet.
fO Little Town of Bethlehem
, , This Joyful Eastertide
Exeter Cathedral Choir.
f The Manger Throne
. ie pi rs t Noel
George’s Chapel Choir, Windsor.
The World’s Greatest TJalue
©rrtyestrai
fSilent Night, Holy Night
075111 Christmas Melodies —Noel and Adeste
(6/-) j Fideles
[Paul Whiteman and his Orchestra.
f Christmas Memories —
I (A Dream Phantasy). In Two Parts
(6A) 'Herman Finch and his Orchestra.
Christmas Overture
9137 In Two Parts
(6/-) 8.8. C. Wireless Symphony Orchestra
(conducted by Percy Pitt).
01528
(4/-)
The Sacred Hour —Reverie
In Two Parts
■Albert W. Ketelbey’s Concert Orchestra.
cAsk your 'Dealer for the Special Christmas
Supplement containing a comprehensive list of
•well-chosen Yuletide selections
Columbia
TONE - - A Revelation
PRICE - - Beyond
Comparison
{Model logct - £5 10
{Model 112 a - £7 10
Positively this is the most astounding value ever offered in
Portables. Its TONE, VALUE, FINISH and simplicity leaves
everything else behind. Judge this for yourself by test and
comparison. aAsk your dealer to demonstrate this model.
NO PORTABLE IS SO GOOD!
OBTAINABLE AT ALL MUSIC STORES
Columbia
Records
MAGIC NOTES
TRADE MARK-
ELECTRIC RECORDING WITHOUT
SCRATCH
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS.
N.S.W.: Grafonola, Ltd., 39 Liverpool Street, Sydney
VIC.: Columbia Distributors (Vic.) Pty., Ltd., 300 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, C.i.
QUEENSLAND: King & King, Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane. _
A, E, Harrold, 123-125 Charlotte Street, Brisbane.
SB
.A.:. Phonographs, Ltd., 671 Hay Street, Perth. _
A : South Australian Phonograph Co., Ltd., Gilbert Buildings, Gilbert Plane. Adelaide,
TAS.: Columbia Supplies (Tas.) Pty., Ltd., Launceston, Hobart and Burme.


d
A Box of-
HIM
ď
For Marking Linen
Such a gift is most useful and welcome
to everybody. Cash’s Names are distinc-
tive and durable. Any name woven in
fast color.
“A Few Stitches and They’re on.”
Ss£3ny2UuuTui.
Actual Size, Style No. 6
12 doz. 7/6, 6 doz. 5/-, 3 doz. 3/6
Sold by all Best Drapers
Order without delay
J. & J. Cash Australian Weaving Co. Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt St., Richmond, Melbourne
THE “WOMAN'S MIRROR”
contains everything that women
should know from kitchen to
drawing-room, from cradle to
old age. It is the most remark-
able threepenny - worth ever
printed.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR
3d.
Under
Royal
.Warrant
đ
ToH.NL
Kin^
GeorgeV
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company U mited
SYDNEY.
fSa
CHAMPAGNE
Qiarlesl Icidsie^
REIMS
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Averts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Make a Note
of this!
The Royal Empire Society’s party was the
outstanding crush of the week. It was the
annual corroboree, whicli is so much larger
than the ordinary friendly gossips that nothing
less than David Jones’s ballroom would hold
the guests. Hugh Denison and his lady, with
chairman of the council C. M. C. Shannon,
Kelso King, Alfred Meeks and D. J. Brown-
hill, flashed the smile of welcome to the arriv-
ing 600, among whom were the State Exes.,
Lady de Chair in a black frock all floating
panels caught with a great paste buckle.
The armful of red roses and carnations given
her were a bit of still-life after Heysen’s
heart. A black frock sinuous as to hips,
where it was moored by deep bands of
diamente and flowing as to back, where a
little wave of it swirled against the floor,
was worn by the president’s lady, who was
well lit with diamonds and pearls. The wife
of Chinese Consul-General F. T. Sung re-
called the fact that even little Chinese girls
never go into public with the lower part of
the throat bare. Mrs. Sung wore her national
costume: the long tunic was of loaf-green
exquisitely embroidered in black.
Black frocks were in great numbers. Mrs.
George Vivers had black moire and red roses,
Mrs. Norman Lowe brought among other
things a plumy crimson fan and Mrs. Roy-
stone Davey black and silver brocade. Joan
Marks was effective in a snow-queen frock
uf white georgette, Limerick lace and dia-
mente. Captain and Mrs. Stevenson and
Commander Garsia brought a touch of the
Navy into the gathering, though none of
them was ironclad. Acting-Chief Justice
Ferguson and his w r ife, the John Garlieks,
the Laytons and nearly 500 more took a foot
at jazz or a hand at bridge, and Consuls for
Greece, Czeclio-Slovakia, Germany, China,
Finland and Chile held converse with the
State’s leaders. And so Britannia rules the
waves!
_ Americans in Sydney ate their Thanks-
giving turkey within the Wentworth, as
their custom is. But this year the turkey
got. the bird a whole 24 hours before the
calendar decreed, the American Society of
this city desiring the company of their
Malolo cousins, who were to cast off the
next morning. Dinner was followed by
(lancing. Starred and striped emblems were
everywhere, America’s flag and Australia’s
banner hung in fellowship between the palm
court and the cafe, and a Jantzen girl was
poised over the balcony-front all the even-
ing in the very act of diving into the foam-
ing beakers ort the Jantzen table, down
below.
“King,” “President” and “Visitors” were
the toasts of the evening, and Charles
Brown, of the Matson company, was their
proposer; and, of course, to brother C. C.
Moore, leader of the Malolo expedition, fell
the speech in reply. After that the band
played “Marching through Georgia” and
“Swanee River”; then, getting really gay,
it broke into “Massa’s in the Cold, Cold
Ground,” and such like. Mrs. Brown, in
deep-rose chiffons, helped her husband enter-
tain one of the largest parties, while another
long table was presided over by American
Trade-Commissioner Squires. Here sat
f'aptain and Mrs. Geoffrey Hughes, the
V. G. Berks, Mrs. Gordon Bennett and Miss
Jane Carney, of New York.
This Letter rolled out of bed early last
Thursday to see what sort of a send-off
our fickle summer was giving the Malolo,
and found a dew-fresli morning, all blue and
pearl, handing the visitors a fine farewell.
And, indeed, we’d have been ashamed if
the dour-grey looks that greeted the Pacific
voyagers had not been chased away. They
called the Malolo the “goodwill ship,” though,
since it carried 57 widows, the office chap-
lain insists on referring to it as the Widow’s
Cruse.
Not only the Jantzens of swimming-cos-
tume fame visited the beaches; from the
look of Bondi the whole 325 tourists were
present to see the life-saving display. The
trans-Pacific cousins think our beaches fine
-—better than far-famed Waikiki. They like
our Mountains, and the turquoise and gold
of our South Coast; they responded cordi-
ally to all our hospitality, though always
ending on the one note, lialf-wonder, half-
rebuke: “Say, why don’t you tell the world?”
That we should have anything and not
shriek it from the housetops they simply
couldn’t understand. And so amiable they
were that perhaps nobody had the - cour-
age to tell even one of them that the world
might love them, better if they left it to find
out their virtues for itself.
Sydney wasn’t able to even make a pre-
tence of an enduring interest in the exhibi-
tion of antiques at Burdekin House. It
needed a sub-committee to work up social
events as drawing side-lines; lacking this,
even the Friday evening dinners haven’t
proved a rival to the Australia. Various
society women hostessed, and the girls from
finishing schools were on many occasions the
paying guests.
It was at Burdekin House that the Vic-
toria League Committee held its tea party
to help Prince Alfred’s. The day was fine,
so everybody had tea out in the grounds
under the gay beach umbrellas. Miss
Macarthur Onslow was the afternoon’s hos-
tess and brought navy blue georgettes against
which a jabot of Limerick lace foamed into
the picture. Hugh Denison’s lady was in
beige georgette. Mrs. Norman Lowe’s frock
was of pale honey lace over which a georg-
ette coat of the same tone was slipped, and a
jade-green hat and necklace were added
glories. Mrs. Hans Fey, wife of the new
Consul-General for Norway, had come with
Hugh Denison’s lady, who had that day given
a lunch in her honor at the Queen’s Club ;
Mrs. Walter Swinson, looking very well after
her travels, was among the guests; so were
pleasant Mrs. Roystone Davey and Miss
Picton Turbeville, the latter the shepherdess
of the last incoming flock of Barnado girls.
The white braiding which is the newest
ornamentation of costumes adorned Mrs.
Stuart Doyle’s black satin suit.
There’s a Peter Pan Club forming in Syd-
ney. The idea is to enlist the help of child-
ren for other youngsters less lucky
than themselves. For sixpence a child
can become a member of the club,
and his first responsibility will be to
whip up interest in the Peter Pan Party
at the Wentworth on December IS for the
benefit of the Deaf and Dumb and Blind
children at Darlington.
This is a Dayne picture of Florence M.
Taylor, widow of well-known George Taylor,
and founder and first president of the Arts
Club. This club, an outcome of the Women
Painters’ So-
cie t y, was
formed by the
associate mem-
bers of that
body when the
painters got
too busy to
permit social
fixtures to dis-
turb their
eyrie in the
Q. V. Markets.
The Arts Club
is bounding
along; and it
should, for the
club-rooms are
very comfort-
able, the re-
modelling of
the Pitt-street
premises hav-
ing been car-
ried out under
the direction of the lady in the picture, who
is an architect as well as editor and owner
of a series of publications concerning the
building and decorating of the home.
Singer George Brooke is back in Australia
with his wife. He hurried on ahead of his
concert partner, pianist Teddy Cahill, to
visit his mother, who is ill in Sydney. These
two Australians have met with their usual
good luck in England, coupled with extra-
ordinary kindnesses from hosts and host-
esses, from Royalties onwards. Eight
months' work in Austria and Germany and
the south of France have been added to their
English experiences.
Mrs. Brooke laughs at the prevalent idea
that clothes are cheap in Germany and Aus-
tria. Good clothes are dear everywhere, she
says. The winter goods were filling the shops
before the Australians left, and the new
tweeds, pliable as silk and yet warm, made
a special appeal. Tweed hats are all the
rage; colorful and swathed into turban or
skull shape, they have as much resemblance
to the tweed hat of other days as the Cin-
derella of tin 1 ball had to the Cinderella of
the kitchen ashes. There’s tulle and lace for
evening wear, and a Spanish touch in every-
thing ; and the best evening coats are curved
from hip-length in the front to ankle-length
at the back. Gold and silver lame are
largely used in the building of them, and the
Arctic fox, dyed in many shades, obligingly
warms the borders.
George and Teddy start their Australian
season in Brisbane early in the New Year.
While the Royal Empire Society was
flashing the bare shoulder-blade and the pearl,
the Fellowship of Australian Writers was
making merry in the Lyceum Club. This
end-of-the-year party was to offer congratu-
lations to Rod Quinn and Steele Rudd, who
both have a birthday in November. The
only pearls at this gathering were of thought,
but the shoulder-blades were nearly as bare
and quite as snowy as at any of the up-town
revels. Rod got a pipe and Steele Rudd a
fountain-pen. Poet Le Gay Brereton re-
ceived the guests, and a programme arranged
by Marjorie Quinn included poems read by
Rod and a reading of one of his own stories
by Steele Rudd.
Two years ago not to know May and
June Henry was to confess yourself a
stranger to Sydney’s dancing world. The
ash-blonde twins gave exhibitions in most
of the city’s cafes, besides running with Carl
Thomas a studio where youth and age were
taught to dance with strict regard to rhythm
and smooth-
ness. They
were the essen-
tials, accord-
ing to the
twins’ gospel
—if the pupil
achieved those
all else would
bo added to
him. From
the time the
two girls were
children and
danced in
J.C.W. shows,
they were the
I n separables.
Then Romance
stepped in. and
about two years
ago June mar-
ried a rubber-
planter in the
Malay States.
Now May, after IS months’ travelling, has
returned to Sydney with a platinum and
diamond entanglement on the usual finger. It
came from Lieut. James Sanders, R.N., now
of the Flinders Naval Depot, to which lie
was transferred when his Australian girl
w T as returning to Sydney.
The courtyard of St. Vincent’s is enclosed
by tier upon tier of arched balconies. These
one night last week were turned into laugh-
ing promenades, for visitors had descended in
legion on the Darlinghurst hospital in answer
to the nurses’ invitation to tlieir yearly
at-home. The balconies, gay with bunting and
colored lights, looked down on an open-air
theatre, where probationers and young medi-
coes struck the cymbal and waggled a leg
at the audience. Besides the dances in whicn
the nurses were the ballerinas there was a
programme of star artists of the city. Agnes
Caspers’s well-balanced little orchestra sup-
plied the overture, and later on a marvellous
supper was served in a marquee on the lawn.
The Police Band also did noble work, and
Dr. J. J. Woodburn handed out final certi-
ficates to 16 Nightingales. The Nurses’
Home takes the profits.
Lady de Chair laid the foundation-stone
of the new Frank 11. Saywell kindergarten
at Moore Park, made possible by Mr. Say-
well’s cheque for £lOOO. With Sam Walder’s
£250 the cash in hand is £1750, but another
£750 is still needed to clear the building.
During the week an intensive campaign
for the Crippled Children Service Fund is
being carried on. City offices are being
combed by an eager band of over 100 women
led by Mrs. Arthur Watts. This movement
has behind it the Rotary Club, and each
helper carries with her a letter of introduc-
tion from Henry Braddon. But the cause is
well known and popular, and the attacked
mostly capitulate before the letter can be
produced.
The disappearance of Dr. Lang's austere
old kirk on Church Hill —the new city rail-
way has swallowed it —led the way to a
stonemason job for Lord Stonehaven on
Saturday. He formally began the fabric of a
new Presbyterian home in York-street. Three
hundred thousand it will cost when it is com-
pleted ; but for the present the offices will
run to a mere five or six storeys and will dig
into the kirk funds for a hundred thousand
less. Dr. Lang’s old tabernacle cost no more
than £3OO0 —and looked it.
When Mrs. Sheridan, who was Topsy Hor-
dern, of Wahroonga and Leura, promised to
marry the Baron de Tuyll, the gentleman
celebrated the event by buying her a car and
one for each of her two daughters, Beatrice
and Patricia, both of whom are very good
looking. The acquaintance started over a
bridge table. The Baron, wdio is reported
to be tall and handsome, is English, though
the titlfi is Dutch. He is also extremely rich
and generous. He has bought a house at
Cobliam, 20 miles from London, for his bride-
to-be, who is a sister of Mrs. Roystone
Davey and a first cousin of Sam Hordern.
He has a town-house in Park-lane, and
here’s a curious circle. Chatsworth, at Potts
Point, was the old Edward Hordern home
(Mrs. Roystone Davey was born there).
After passing through various hands, includ-
ing those of C. J. Roberts and Scott Fell,
the house has come into the possession
of Justly Rawlings, head of Anthony Hor-
derns. Dr. 11. V. Hordern, the old-time
googly bowler, is, by the way, a brother of
the new Baroness’s.
Well, there’s one Sydney girl who has
secured herself against a rainy day. She
was Nellie Barker and is now Mrs. Allen
Burberry, her husband being a director of
the famous waterproof overcoat manufac-
turers. Mrs. Burberry, a daughter of the
H. V. Barkers, of Coogee, has been travel-
ling in Europe for five years.
Cora Gratton-Smith, eldest daughter of
T. E. Gratton-Smith, assistant manager of
the N.S.W. Bookstall Company, was a
November bride. Her ’groom was that Mal-
colm Horne, of Mosman, who helps the
Sydney Ferries carry on its big job even
under the shadow of the fingers of steel that
slowly creep together. The kno.t was tied at
St. James’s.
In a modern copy of an Ann Boleyn
frock Dorothy Williams, of Homebusli, be-
came the bride of Keith Benjamin, of Armi-
dale, last week. Two maids in hydrangea-blue
georgettes followed the picturesque ivory
satin and tulle figure up the aisle of St.
Philip’s. Bride’s mother and father enter-
tained a host of guests from town and coun-
try at Romano’s.
Madame Emmie Ellis sends new T s of some
Australians in Europe. She had met Mrs.
Inskip, formerly Gertie Fischer, of Sydney,
who had taken a fiat in Monte .Carlo, where
Madame Ellis has resided for more than 20
years. Mrs. Inskip is the younger daughter
of the late Mrs. Fischer, the Sydney jour-
nalist who nearly paralysed her male col-
leagues when she first claimed her right of
entree to the press box at the Flemington
racecourse. Frances Saville was wearying
of her flat in Paris, and was weighing the
pros and cons of establishing a home at
Cannes. Her former Riviera home she sold
to a Montenegrin prince at a huge profit.
Tremaync Lark, the portrait-painter, still
keeps up old Australian associations, and
after a summer in England with relations
was returning to his studio at Monte Carlo.
In the days when Beatrice Griffiths (Mrs.
Swinson) and Emilie Wood were getting
magic from the keys under the guidance of
pianist Henri Kowalski, Emmie Ellis was
another bright pupil. She is a neighbor of
Mrs. Brown Potter’s, and often sees that
picturesque lady.
A feature of the party at Government
House on Monday afternoon was the musical
programme arranged by Mr. and Mrs. Rafa-
lewski and their pupils Stella and Bettina
Booth. Stella is a lyric soprano, while
Bettina has a rich contralto with a Clara
Butt note in it. Mr. Rafalewski later played,
at Lady de Chair’s request, a w T altz of his
own composition, “La Perle.”
That great worker in the interests of the
St. John Ambulance E. E. Brookes is once
more well again. For 15 years he has looked
after the treasury, and to tell him how glad
they were to see him on deck again the
committee people arranged a lunch in his
honor at the Arts Club. Mrs. Brookes was
there, too, and when speech time came around
she had thrust on her a Shelley-china and
silver tea-service, while her husband got off
with a Spanish mahogany clock. Dr. Arthur
handed over the gifts and the good wishes.
Dr. Poate, Dr. Storie Dixson, Dr. Harold
Norrie and Mr. It. It. Benjamin were others
who lifted their voice in praise.
The flower-shops’ are showing Christmas-
bells and flannel-daisies of extraordinary
quality. For this and the very fifie Chnst-
mas-bush that will be in the windows
within a fortnight we have to thank the
Gazette which made, picking of most native
flowers illegal—on public lands, of course.
While these were anybody’s to tear from the
soil, we got poor little blooms, for the most
part; and the story went round, to excuse
our laziness, that native flowers didn t
respond to cultivation. Now we’ve taken
the beauties into our gardens, and the pro-
duct of the nurseryman is vastly superior
to the product of the old, uncared-for
rocky ridge. ' T , T • *
Congratulations to Mrs. John Levien, of
Darling Point, who last week with perfect
digestion celebrated a hale and hearty 100th
birthday. Of her hundred years eighty-six
have been spent in Australia. Mrs. Levien
lives with her sister, Mrs. A. Witherby, and
has had nine children.
The boys of the Empire Service Club are
arranging a pot-pourri evening for December
13 at St. James’s Hall. A mixture of song
and drama under the direction of Gordon
Trafford will be supplied by the boy mem-
bers, who arc working up the entertainment
for the benefit of the club funds.
Canonbury, which is now run by the
A J.C. as a convalescent home for children,
will bloom into a Christmas-tree on Decem-
ber 18. This will be an afternoon party, and
Colin Stephen and other A.J.C. heads will
take an hour off to be there.
One after another the old “guest-houses”
go. Cairo, which for years has turned a
face veiled more or less by leaf and green
shoot to the passer-by in Macleay-street, has
been sold—for £45,000, it is said. The
inevitable flats will follow.
OVERHEARD.
Worried-looking Man: “It’s ridiculous! I can’t
afford to buy you an aeroplane. And, anyway,
what’s the use of your having an aeroplane when
we live in a flat, and there’s no ’drome within
miles.”
Peevish Young Woman: “Oh, but if you bought
me a Moth I could park it in my bunny coat.”


Zi
m
u
2
3
9
0
e
s
4
R
Op,
vs
Paris, the cradle
of elegance
has adopted the Omega watch as stan-
dard ol good taste.
It is the favourite of discriminating
people throughout the world ior the
beauty of its lines and the unfailing
accuracy of its movement.
At the better jewellers only.
A
EXACT TIME
t WmCH£STBR
TRADE MARK
GUNS AND AMMUNITION
FTER a long day’s tramp and
you sight the game, you
want to be sure that your guns
and ammunition Mil not fail
you. Insist- on Winchester
safe, sure, accurate.
You will find a fine range of
Winchester big game rifles to
select from —each a masterpiece,
and, for each, there are Win-
chester cartridges' made to- en-
able them to do their best.
WINCHESTER
REPEATING ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN, CONN.. U. S. A.
t Always iim Winchester Ammu* T
nition with W inchrster Arm? S
they are made for each other . J
Vo
I
&
/as
B
i
am
NW:?
A
i
m
$
2
V
\ .
CdiTV
y a
m
m
FIRE EXTINGUISHER
The regret for a good car lost, the incon-
venience caused, the possible danger to the car s
passengers—insurance makes no provision for
these. BE FULLY protected by carrying a
PYRENE Fire Extinguisher! It takes up
little space and is always ready for use. Fitted
under dash or any other convenient position.
Reduced insurance premiums are charged on all
cars fitted with the standard model.
PRICES —Complete with chemical and bracket 70/- (brass)
75/- (Nickel). Junior Model. 60/- Write for Folder “C ”
ALL GARAGES ACCESSORY HOUSES OR :
HARRISONS RAMSAY PTY. LTD.
600 -Bourke St., Melbourne; Grenfell St., Adelaide;
52 Clarence St., Sydney; Adelaide St., Brisbane;
A.M.P. Buildings, William Street, Perth.
. :/V\N
'■fr* '
If +& * ‘ y*l*‘ , ‘‘"‘ ,^ V '
V-y •%
£*33
■
£3?
**!3
siai
a
■
c BB
\
k€ 3
■I
;
? c*r
' • B/«? X X i
/ j
■&>:-&*&* B z * x « x &Bm%
vA> Wt»z«x*z#zsz«zextf*Jsi¥
7S*>* up* *zaz«ze>?ffl x mxs x «»J
0x« x* x & ■/. exax«• x a x a x»XM
z» x#/«xe x a if ». s?« z»x» x a A
#*«*« x e>r«x»x«x*x»x*x *
ass
•fi
'.r a x tt 8 xoxo>: e x a x e xa x ax m x *
SXBXiBX«/JRX»XirX«X»X*X»X
..* a x « x w x e x e x m x « x * x * x » x «
<«XBXB
sxexaz
?Z«Z«Z
iw*xe
K«eSs»*
W>XiSX
X»XBX«XBX«X
(Bx«x«xßwex*
«X»X
BxexfixexßXßx#*
xexexwxßx«x«x<7
XeXBX(ffXBX«X»X<
BX«X»XiPZi»Z«Z«M
XBXBXBZBZBZBVO
SSMSSMSI
XBZBZiBZBZB#
BZ«Z*ZBZ«
x*x»x»xea
The famous
AERTEX open weave:-.
THE cool comfort and protection from
sudden changes of temperature so essential
ir* tropical underwear, are to be found in
every AERTEX garment.
Through the porous open mesh of AERTEX
the skin breathes freely and the extreme heat of
the day or the sudden chill of the night finds
the body adequately protected by the AERTEX
wonder weave.
d
Obtainable from all Hosiers, Drapers and
Outfitters. In case of difficulty apply to
Mr. H. O. S. DREW
313/315 FLINDERS LANE,
MELBOURNE, Australia.
Representative of the Cellulct? Clothing Co.
Ltd., who supplies Wholesale Trade only.
AERTEX\Ii
&
label °n all Garments
See this label on all garments
A. 4


COMMONWEALTH LOAN
5i per cent, at £9B. Average Annual Yield £5/14/4 per cent.
Persons having either small or large sums available for investment should remember that:—-
Idle money means waste; the money should be immediately invested.
There is no safer investment than Commonwealth Loans.
Either Stock or Bonds can be purchased, and the purchaser can sell them at any time on the
Stock Exchange, if he so desires.
The full amount of the subscription can be paid at the time of application; or a deposit of only
10 per cent, need be made, and the balance paid at any time up to February 3, 1930.
Interest is free of STATE INCOME TAX, and runs from the date of lodgment of money.
Full particulars from—
BANKS, SAVINGS BANKS, MONEY ORDER POST OFFICES AND MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES.
Commonwealth Treasury, EDWARD G. THEODORE.
Canberra. Treasurer.
Merry Christmas!
BY ARTHUR GROOM
lIUIS'TPATED BY HARPY J. WEYTON
Synopsis : Sandy Jackson, tired of
looking for work and utterly broke in
Brisbane, decides to get back to fami-
liar surroundings, as far ivest as
oossible. Pratten, commercial traveller,
refuses Mm a lift in Queen-street, and
Sandy crawls into the small space in
the back of the car. He is undis-
covered, and the car, which Pratten
is not used to driving, starts out for
Toowoomba. On the way Pratten
takes a corner too sharply and crashes
into an embankment. Sandy, semi-con-
scious, is discovered, and induces the
commercial to take him with him, on
condition that he will look after the car
and sleep in it at night. On the first
night a drunk comes to the car, and
Sandy engineers him out of two bottles
of lager and a bottle of r-um. Next
morning Pratten is annoyed to find his
car littered with empty bottles and
mutton bones, but they go on to Olon-
curry, where Sandy meets his old
friend Jim Walters, and accepts a
job to go with him to Boolgooroo
station. Reaching the station, Jim
Walters meets an addition, a city girl,
who is looking after the store, and
whose name, station-owner Jack Hin-
ton telts him, is Helen Delaney. Her
presence embarrasses Walters, but
Sandy, who has brought a souvenir
pair of jazz garters with him, has
just enough respect for her to get the
hands engaged in a contest to discover
what kind of garters Miss Delaney
wears. Miss Delaney is greatly em-
barrassed by the sudden interest the
hands take in her, but Walters gets
to know of the joke and wins a new
place in Miss Delaney’s regard by
quashing the competition. Miss
Delaney, however, takes the precau-
tion of letting her skirts doivn an inch
or txco. Meanwhile, a strong m love
affair is developing between her and
Walters.
CHAPTER XII.
Helen Delaney in Danger.
THE big cattle-yards at the Boolgooroo
homestead were renowned. They
were the worst in the whole of the
North-West, mainly because of their close-
ness to the homestead. Cattle hated the
glare of the white painted roofs and the
smell of burnt bones and the reek of dried
blood and rotting manure around the killing
pen.
Helen Delaney watched a great cloud of
dust rise slowly along one side of the
river beyond the Northern Bend. It was
approaching midday and Hinton had told
her it belonged to a mob of seventeen
hundred mixed cattle which were being-
brought to the homestead yards. They
were first to be drafted on the flat- in the
horse-paddock; the unbranded calves with
their mothers were to be yarded for the
night; all the rest would go back whence
they came.
The great dust-cloud scarcely seemed to
move, except to roll slowly over and over
back on to itself. No cattle could be seen.
The horsemen were blocked from sight;
and as Helen stood just before the store
she realised that summer had come with
grim ‘ reality. To right and to left, miles
out across the sparsely timbered, almost
feedless plains, mirages played grotesquely
with weird shapes. Water appeared in
great lakes; but it was false. The river ran
around in a sudden bend back a little way
into the north-east before it
swung and continued north-
west. There was little water
in its bed—less than there
had been for many years, so
the blacks said. Only one or two of the
permanent holes contained water. The trees
down towards the river shimmered in the
heat.
An hour or more passed and faint sounds
floated back from the slowly approaching
dust cloud. Whips cracked like pistol shots;
yet so far away. Angry voices came
on a hot broken breeze; and the murmur
of stirred cattle continued to grow slowly.
By lunch time the great mob had swung
to a rowdy gathering on the big claypan
in the horse-paddock. Three men were left
to ride around them, and half a dozen men
broke away and galloped towards the
station buildings.
She saw them disappear into the yards
and then reappear again a little later on
foot and walk towards the kitchen.
She closed the store and went across to
the house.
“Your dresses don’t hang at all well,
lengthened as they are,” Mrs. Hinton
assured her during lunch. “Anyone would
think”
“But, Auntie, it’s what I think,” Helen
protested.
“Oh, yes, but perhaps it’s because Mr.
Walters likes them long,” Mrs. Hinton
hinted with a smile.
“Auntie, you’ll not connect my habits or
opinions with Mr. Walters. I forbid it!”
Mrs. Hinton dropped the matter quickly.
She was not an argumentative woman. She
believed rather in giving out short re-
minders at intervals.
Helen exercised a certain right over the
routine of the store. She could pick and
choose her working hours, provided the
work was done generally. After lunch she
stood undecided on the store steps. A
queer sense of excitement thrilled her. A
string of men fded from the distant dining-
room to the yards, and then cantered up
the paddock on fresh horses. She made up
her mind. She inspected the interior of
the store. There were no telegrams to be
sent, no accounts to be made up urgently.
No mail had to be done. She could take
a free afternoon.
The station.' blacksmith had made her a
neat notice some months previously:—
Closed for the Remainder of the Day.
She hung it on a hook outside the door
and walked away across the pebbly ground.
Reaching the stockyards, she paused.
She had never really explored them, even
when she had been asked to do so. The
top rail loomed temptingly. A few seconds
later she was astride it. Then she
straightened her skirts and waited.
Jim Walters rode out from behind the
bachelors’ quarters. He saw her and waved,
reined in his horse a little, as though to
ride towards her, but as suddenly changed
his mind and cantered up the paddock.
She watched him go. He could ride very
prettily.
The men around the cattle seemed to
have been awaiting his arrival. The great
mob stirred afresh. A huge cloud of dust
commenced to rise slowly into the air,
higher and higher, until it seemed to Helen
that the spirit of the earth was trying to
blot out all the sky.
Stockmen were ranged around the cattle
at short intervals. Two m.en mounted special
camp horses, and one of them seemed to
be Jim Walters. They entered the mob of
cattle and passed from her sight.
She pitied the stockmen at work in the
choking dust. The morning breeze had gone
altogether and the dust rose only to float
in every direction. Slowly it spread along
the bare ground, until the mounted men
could be seen as through a brown screen.
A heavy beast burst out wildly, rushed
away on the plain, followed by a man on
horseback. The chase was thrilling. Helen
gripped the top rail and prayed unknow-
ingly for the beast. The stockman manoeu-
vred his horse alongside the fleeing animal
and it seemed as though both were wrestling
for supremacy.
The beast was turned and another joined
it, then a third and fourth. Helen suddenly
realised the purpose of the galloping. They
were separating the cattle into two lots,
one by One. Those to be branded were
being cut out and held in a small lot some
distance before the larger lot. Even as she
wondered, three large calves trotted calmly
out, followed by a thick-set beast which
tore wildly away across the plain.
There seemed no stopping that beast. A
blackboy galloped his horse after it, drew
level, and attempted to turn it; but the
“mickie” evidently knew the practices of
stockmen. It refused to be turned. The
chase drew farther away; and then the
rider’s horse stumbled heavily and fell.
A small cloud of dust rose up off the hot
plain. The “mickie” turned swiftly and
charged. Helen almost screamed. She saw
the infuriated animal hurl forward, saw the
blackboy step nimbly aside, twist in an
instant and grab the animal’s tail. A
breathless comedy followed which appeared
to represent a beast tugging a black man
at high speed across the plain; then, in
some incredible manner, the animal was
thrown on its side, and the blackboy was
holding it down and waving violently for
assistance.
Help came quickly in the shape of two
more stockmen, while the galloping and
drafting went on back at the large mob.
The “mickie” was quickly roped down and
left, and the three horsemen returned.
Helen could see the imprisoned animal’s
efforts to rise, and caught her breath when
it regained use of two loose legs only to
fall awkwardly again. Then it remained
still, a black blot on the grey plain.
Towards evening the drafting was
finished, and about a third of the cattle
had been cut out into the smaller mob.
The two mobs stood about a hundred yards
apart, and for a period peace reigned on the
plain. The dust cleared slowly, and Helen
discovered that .there were more men
behind it than she had realised. She
counted -thirteen. A number surrounded
the smaller mob, and commenced to drive
it slowly down towards the homestead yards.
Three men held the larger lot on the camp.
The clumps of dead grass had been all
torn down. A great bare patch signified
where speedy animals had criss-crossed
everywhere, and the cattle were coming
nearer.
As the mob neared, the driving drew
much more difficult. Stockwhips cracked,
horses were forced, and every little loop-
hole behind. the cattle was quickly filled
up. Cattle burst away only to be wheeled
back again with astounding rapidity.
Then suddenly the thought came to Helen
that she might be in the way. Climbing
down she walked a hundred yards towards
the long low building which contained the
main kitchen and dining rooms.
The cattle employed every trick they
knew to get free. Some refused to budge
until horses pushed them bodily forward.
Others were flogged on. Some twisted back
through the mob, ran around in circles,
only to discover themselves back again in
the dreaded lead. Fear of the yards ran
through them. Weren’t there burning bones,
manure and blood in the killing-pens?
And didn’t the reek of past brandings still
hang heavy in the air?
At the wide gates it seemed as though
the cattle would not move any further.
They stood solidfy, circling wildly at the
back, pressing backwards from the front.
The whips quietened, time was given the
beasts to grow used to the view, but still
they did not go forward. Three stock-
men contrived to work a wing up, rush
them round and up to the gate. The
attempt was almost successful, but failed,
because one heavy beast got in the road
of a few that would have entered.
Helen winced at the sound of curses in
the heavy air, and tried not to take any
notice.
One of the three men at the larger mob
cantered down the plain and joined in the
melee. Four more arrived from seemingly
nowhere.
Suddenly a string of four beasts burst
through between the close cordon of riders.
Two men followed them. One animal, a
heavy two-year-old unbranded bull-calf,
broke away and came crashing round the
corner of the yards.
Helen felt a sudden grip of terrific fear.
The bull was coming straight towards her.
Somebody shouted wildly above the
medley of sounds. Helen turned and ran
for the nearest building. Gasps of terror
burst from her lips, and she tried not to
scream.
Footfalls thundered behind. They appeared
to be close on her right. She turned quickly
to her left, only to find herself directly
before the cleanskin bull. Slime and foam
flung from its mouth. Its head was down.
She twisted to run again, with the beast
a few yards from her; and it seemed only
then that- the bull saw her. It tried to
follow, skidded clumsily on a short patch
of pebbles and dust, and the thud-thud
of a heavier body pounded on her ears.
A horse shot right before her, a tail
swished her face and stung. A man rode
out low on the horse’s neck. She saw the
bull and horse blot as though in one; the
rider disappeared from the saddle, and the
horse trotted on a little and stood still.
Jim Walters had the bull by the tail.
He was jerked from his balance, crashed
to his knees, and by a turn of the body
was dragged to his feet again. Helen stood
stock still, though the battle was within a
few yards of her.
Jim Walters darted alongside the hind-
quarters of the bull, gave a twist, and the
heavy beast rolled down and over. Within
an instant Walters had its tail between
its back legs, and jambed in across the
flank. He put out a trembling foot and
placed it heavily behind the bull’s horn.
Helen ran forward. Impulse compelled
her.
“Can I help?” she asked foolishly, and
suddenly realised that her words were
idiotic.
Jim Walters looked over his shoulder.
His face was writhing with his exertions.
Dust and mud covered him. His riding
trousers were torn. He bled from one hand,
and sweat poured from his straining face.
“Get to Hell out of it!” he shouted.
“You’ll be killed!”
Helen Delaney gasped and stopped.
Blood surged to her head. Tears sprang to
(Continued on page 51.)


Catanach’s Quality Diamond Ring
Seekers of Quality will be well satisfied with a Ring from Catanach’s. This famous Jewellery House specialises in
Diamonds, and offers only the very finest of Gems in their Engagement and Dress Rings, and all other Diamond Jewellery.
A WRITTEN GUARANTEE is given with every Catanach Diamond Ring. Write for catalogue if you cannot call.
24,868 —Fine Diamond
Single Stone Ring,
made in 18ct. Gold,
with Platinum
Coronet, £15
And in 18ct. White
Gold and Platinum
Coronet, also Platinum
throughout.
d
24,873 —T hree Dia-
mond Ring-, 18ct. Gold
and Platinum Settings,
Hexagon Pattern,
£lB
24,864- —Four Fine
Diamonds, 18ct. Gold
and Platinum Settings,
£2O
24,879—F ive-stone
Diamond Ring, 18ct.
Gold and Platinum
Mille Grain Settings,
£l6
24,867 —Three P i n e
Diamonds, with Dia-
mond Shoulders, 18ct.
Gold and Platinum
Settings, £l6
ď
24,827—Ten Fine Dia-
monds, Platinum Set-
ting and 18et. Gold,
£3O
24,855 —Dainty S i x-
stone Ring, 18ct.
Gold and Platinum
Settings, set with fine
quality, double-c u t
Brilliant Diamonds,
£20
d
24,850 —All Platinum
Solitaire Ring, in
variety of designs, set
with fine Brilliant Dia-
mond, £5O
ď
24,847- —All Platinum
Octagonal Cluster,
close set centre, set
with fine quality,
double cut Brilliant
Diamonds. P4.r»
đ
Comer Royal Arcade and Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE Cl.
d
24,897 —Two Fine Dia-
monds, with 14
Smaller Stones in
Shoulders, in White
Gold and Platinum,
£75
ď
24,842 —12 Fine Dia-
monds, Platinum Set-
ting and 18ct. Gold,
£45
W-McF.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] C[?] 500for R[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, I[?]ted.
B[?]
As was to be expected, the pendulum is
swinging away from lavish display at wed-
dings and less expensive ideas are ruling
the fashion. At a recent London society
wedding simplicity was the keynote, and the
reception was held the day previous to the
ceremony. Lilies only were used in church
decorations, the bride wearing a plain white
satin with a tulle veil unadorned and con-
fined with a chaplet of pearls or blossoms.
A white prayer-book was carried in place of
flowers and there were no _ maids. An
orchestra played during the signing of the
bond, but the Wedding March was cut out.
About 600 women paced around the flower-
beds of State Government House on Friday
afternoon. The party was the finale to the
N.C.W. delegates’ conference, and guests
went in single file through the v.-r. residence
to the drawing-room, grasping the hospitable
hands of Lord and Lady Somers in passing.
The column was halted on the verandah,
where tea was dispensed. The Governor and
bis personal staff and the band were the
only men in the gathering, but they com-
ported themselves very bravely—particularly
the band. Lady Somers featured simple yet
smart attire in fawn and brown checked
summer tweed with a dash of white, and a
sunburnt straw hat. A cold wind turned
favor from chiffons to ensemble suits and
furs. The Irvine lady was there in black and
white with a touch of blue, and the presi-
dent of the N.G.W., Mrs. I. H. Moss, was
also in magpie tones, her georgette and satin
being topped with a shiny straw toque. Her
daughter, Mrs. R. Dare, sported a two-piece
suit blending shades of blue.
The tennis championships opened at the
Kooyong courts on Friday to a somewhat
sparse gallery, but there was a better atten-
dance on the second day. White eyeshades
a la Helen Wills have supplanted the Lenglen
bandeau, the white hat and the beret among
women players. The new brow-gear isn’t
so nearly in beeping with the abbreviated
white siik-pleated sleeveless tennis frock of
the moment as the little close hat, but doubt-
less it has its practical advantages. Admired
by fair onlookers was the fanciful stitch of
the cream woollen sweaters worn by the
N. S. Wales men players. Knitters longed
to take off the pattern of the intricate blend-
ing of purl and plain. The families whose
names are associated with the game were
represented as participants or patrons, in-
cluding president of the L.T.A.V. Norman
Brookes, the Gerald Pattersons, Mrs. T. S.
Hawkes, Mr. and Mrs. Bob Schlesinger and
the O’Hara Woods.
Melbourne took kindly to the midnight
theatrical and talkie show for charity at the
Regent Theatre. Not since the Armistice
has Collins-street been so alive at three in
the morning as on Saturday, when the full
house poured out on to the footpath and
the honking of motor-cars in hundreds woke
slumberers in the vicinity. The taking of
movies of the crowds arriving and the broad-
casting of an account of the proceedings
inside kept those who were unable to obtain
admittance —they numbered hundreds —out
of bed for a considerable time. There was a
strong flavor of informality about the show,
the artists having to be dug out of the
audience to do their turns. The talkie, “The
Cock-eyed World,” filled the second half of
the programme. The competitors in the
Women’s Hospital’s recent queen competition
made a picturesque group on the stage when
thanks were being said. The Lud Mayor’s
Fund should have a big cheque as a result
of the night out.
There were garden parties and fetes all
round the city on Saturday afternoon, and
as it was just the right sort of day for such
enterprises the results, whether social or
financial, were reported to be satisfactory in
every case. There was an old English air
about the fair in the grounds of Mr. F.
Keep’s home, off Mont Albert-road, which
was a first endeavor on hehalf of Toe H.
The stalls scattered through the lovely
garden were attended by salesladies wearing
early Victorian high-waisted frocks with
colored poke bonnets. A bellman in crimson
coat calling “Make way for the Governor!”
preceded his Ex., who opened the function,
through the maze of booths.
Little gaily trimmed-up white shelters and
summer houses bordering St. Kilda-road in
front of the Homoeopathic Hospital that
afternoon sold all sorts of things for the
institution’s benefit.
The annual re-union of past and present
students of the C. of E. Girls’ Grammar
school, South Yarra, led off with a morning
service at which Bishop Stephen officiated;
followed by a luncheon at which the Bishop
and Mrs. R. Stephen, Mayoress Luxton and
Mrs. Norton Grimwade were guests of honor.
A garden-party brought forth reinforcements
of Grammarians, and the very youngest of
the present-day vintage had a high tea. with
balloons and bon-bons. The alfresco
rejoicings took place in the grounds sur-
rounding the lately-acquired former home of
the Norton Grimwades, which is separated
from the older part of the G.G.S. property
by the Tyes’ dwelling. There is much elation
over this purchase, which was facilitated by
the generous action of Mr. Grimwade, who
took £5OOO off the price as a donation
to the cause of education.
After months of arduous work in connec-
tion with the Queen of Charity competition
for the Women’s Hospital building fund,
Mrs. Barry Thomson has found another out-
let for her energy. With Mrs. I. H. Moss
and Sister Isaacs she organised a cafe
chantant, held at Buckley’s last week, for
the Distressed Soldiers’ Fund. The firm lent
its Elizabethan tea-room and provided the
four o’clock nourishment and the pro-
grammes. There were the usual sidemid
sales, some magnificent flowers being sent
from Mrs. H. S. K. Ward’s garden at
Macedon. Though not on the programme,
Ada Reeve sang some of her favorite num-
bers, others who helped to entertain being
Eileen Castles, Mary Gannon, Nora
O’Malley, Walter Kirby and John Hobbs.
After 20 years’ absence Mrs. Geoffrey
Palmer has come back to her native land on
a health trip, seeking a spell of warmth, but,
like the rest of us, she still awaits the
summer. She was a student when, on the
death of her father, Judge Molesworth, her
mother went to England to live, taking her
family. The late Mrs. Molesworth had a
flair for sketching, and polished her talent
by attending art schools in Paris. As
Aenone Molesworth, Mrs. Palmer was a
promising pianoforte pupil of Scliarf, of the
Albert-street Con. in the days of Marshall
Hall, and has continued her studies ever
since. She regularly goes to Paris for the
Cortot School summer classes in interpreta-
tion. Mrs. Palmer’s home is in Berkshire, in
the beautiful Thames Valley ; her sister Mrs.
W. G. Walker, who has a son at Oxford, is
also settled in England, and Dr. H. W. L.
Molesworth, her brother, residing at Folke-
stone, has earned a high reputation as a
surgeon operating under local anaesthetics.
Much of his work is done in conjunction
with a very famous surgeon of Vienna.
'Mrs. Palmer brought back with her
an account of the latest decorative fad,
which is the miniature garden, laid out in
a large black bowl. Instead of the wee trees
and ferns being real, as in the Japanese
miniatures, the flowers and plants are com-
posed of tiny beads, microscopic feathers and
painted tinfoil. Models of domestic animals
are added to give life to the scene. There
is a revival in London of interest in embroid-
ery and • tapestry work, and a society of
embroiderers has been formed, whose mem-
bers are able to borrow samples of the
embroidery of all parts of the world.
A clever miss, formerly of Sydney but now
residing with her parents in Canberra, looks
out of this
Lafayette pic-
ture. She is
Heather,
daughter of the
W. Georges.
Her talent for
art, developed
at the East
Sydney Tech-
nical College
and also by
painter Wat-
kins, is being
used in the
fashioning of
shawls, scarves
and shoulder
’kerchiefs bear-
ing colorful
designs. She
has studied
Batik work
with Byram
Mansell and
adopts that medium for the decoration of
the articles she produces. Some of her work
is now to be seen at the Arts and Crafts
Society’s headquarters. Miss George is a
member of the council of Canberra’s artists’
society, and is one of the Federal capital’s
teachers of painting.
Esme Allee sends a reminder that it is
time to think of Christmas cheer and gifts
for the children of lighthouse-keepers on
the coasts of this State and the Speck.
As the supply steamer calls only twice a
year, Christmas with these young folk is a
movable feast, but long looked forward to.
Toys, books and sweets suitable for kiddies
up to about 10 or 11 are sought. Parcels
may be sent to Anzac House or to the Light-
house Office, 35 Willys-street.
The W. Pulteney Meins’ home on St.
Kilda-road sheltered a feminine bridge party
last week, when “Glad to see you back” was
said to Mrs. Albion Walkley on her return
from a round-the-world jaunt. The hostess
wore an all-black turnout in lace and georg-
ette, with ballibuntal straw hat. Her
daughters Phyllis and Alison helped to enter-
tain the guests, who included Mayoress
Luxton, the Mackey lady, Mrs. Len Buxton
and Mrs. Walter Carnegie.
Mr. Homewood, of the staff of the Uni.
Con., will to-night introduce a more than
promising pianoforte pupil, John Simons,
who is to
make his debut
as a soloist at
the Assembly
Hall. A sonata,
by Liszt;
"Djins,” by
Cesar Franck,
and works by
Rameau, Mo-
zart, Ravel
and Chopin
will be in-
cluded in the
lad’s offerings,
Lorna Trist
at a second
piano giving
support in
concerto num-
bers. The
latest aspirant
to vi r tuoso
honors is a
very old boy
of the Melbourne Grammar School. He
won a three years’ exhibition for piano at
the Con. and lately won the Wright Prize.
The Country Women’s Association’s holi-
day home at Black Rock, beyond Sandring-
ham, had its house-warming last week. It
is for the use of out-back members of the
association and other women residing far
from the city. Lady Somers, who said the
opening words, authorised the naming of the
dwelling Somers House. To the energies of
the younger set, under the leadership of Mrs.
Norman Barrett, is largely due the realisa-
tion of this kindly project, the substantial
amounts raised by bridge parties, dances
and so forth making the purchase possible.
Her Ex., who lias just returned from the
Mallee and its brave stragglers, realises what
a boon a change to the sea will be for the
women and children who live in such sur-
roundings, and she very heartily congratu-
lated the C.W.A. on its thoughtfulness, with
a particular word of praise for the young
folk who worked so hard for the cause. The
comfortable villa has accommodation for 26
people, and it is expected there will be a
full house by Christmas. Mrs. Norman
Barrett and her co-workers provided for the
tea gathering in connection with the launch-
ing, and the president of the C.W.A., the
Mitchell lady, who had with her the vice-
president, Mrs. J. S. Fraser and other officers,
gave Lady Somers a welcome with flowers.
It is some time since a v.-r. party gave
tone to a theatrical first night, but on Satur-
day Lord and Lady Somers, with Colonel
and Mrs. Davidson, had a box at the
premiere of “Clowns in Clover.” There
was no managerial bouquet to mark
the occasion. Beneath her Ex.’s gold-
tinted evening-coat was a frock of mist-
blue lace and chiffon. The curtain at
the King’s has seldom risen upon a prettier
opening picture than Cloudland, with its
bevy of sleeping silvery-blue-clad pierrettes
and pierrots, or descended upon a gayer
finale that that in which changes are rung-
on red, white and silver in costume and
setting. At the final curtain Ann Penn,
with green satin shoes peeping from flared
flounces of filmy white lace and tulle, compli-
mented the ballet of kiddies trained by
Jennie Brenan.
There should be plenty of Christmas cheer
for the blind children of the institute on St.
Kilda-road, thanks to the efforts of Les
Raphael and his Footwarmers’ Band, who
staged a cabaret at Ormond Hall last week.
Margaret Nicholson and Les Hagen appeared
in song and dance solos, and at midnight
Jack O’Hagan arrived with what was billed
as “Mirth’s Circus.” Peggy Hiskens, Edna
Clayton, who wore draperies of honey-
colored lace, and Nel Wimpole, wrapped in.
lace of pale green hue, did the secretarial
chores.
Mrs. Geoffrey Syme, arrayed in wood-
brown satin and lace and millinery to
match, served lunch to several guests at
Blytheswood, as farewell to her sister, Ray
Garnett, off to Ceylon. After the meal there
was bridge, among the players being Mrs.
Herbert Syme, Mrs. R. G. Baldock, of
Ellengowan, Queensland, and Mrs. George
Langridge and her daughter Mrs. Gerald
Hack, of Adelaide.
For half an hour or so the other day the
chapel at Xavier College, Kew, was unoffi-
cially out of bounds for present-day boys, as
Father Edmund Frost, the rector, was estab-
lishing a life partnership between Ivan P.
Bennett, an old boy, now an assistant-sub.
on the Sun-Pic., and Alvie Lynch, who had
just relinquished a teachership in the Educa-
tion Department to keep che appointment at
the altar. The rector presided at the subse-
quent festivity at the Botanical Hotel,
Domain-road, South Yarra. On the evening
prior to the wedding the Sun-Pic. staff
downed paper-staining implements for a
quarter of an hour to hand over a gift to
young Bennett.
Adele Crane, the charming Princess in
“The Student Prince,” made entry in a new
role when she was married to Jan Rubmi,
conductor of the Capitol Theatre orchestra.
A big crowd, mostly women, lined the bar-
riers around Wesley Church and gave the
newly-weds greeting. As it was a matinee
day. the theatrical profession wasn’t very
largely represented in the church. The
bride, all white satin with gold lame train
and rare Brussels lace floating over pink
tulle, smiled her brightest over an armful oi
white lilies. Her sister Joan, who ’maided,
and two small girls, who guarded the leading
lady’s draperies, made a rosy glow in deep
pink taffeta frocks.
Without any fuss or preliminary para-
graphing the knot was tied last "week be-
tween Gladys, daughter of the late Mr. and
Mrs. Herbert Power, of Moor ah, Toorak,;
and Dr. Norman Constock Glover.
Plans for the Melbourne Music Club’s
gathering at the Artists’ Society’s galleries,
had to be hurriedly reconstructed at the.
eleventh hour owing to ’cellist David Sisser-
man hurting his hand. Dr. Reg Ellery’s
wife, a fine pianist, stepped into the breach
and accompanied secretary Muriel Camp-
bell in a violin sonata by Dunhill. Mrs.
Ellery also played accompaniments for
Millicent Osmond, who, with contralto
Bessie Dougall, provided vocal fare. Greet-
ings and the central seat of honor were
given to Mrs. Geoffrey Palmer, a former
student of the Albert-street Con., revisiting
Melbourne after many years’ residence in
England. A posy of crimson roses _ went
with Miss Campbell’s welcome to the visitor,
whose gold-lace gown was wrapped about
with one of the new square shawls, which
was petunia pink brocaded in silver that
blended with her very long antique silver
earrings.
Many disciples of Max Meldrum mounted
the Athenaeum stairs for the opening day of
Clarice Beckett’s show. As in the past, Miss
Beckett’s landscapes and sea pictures are
sombre, depicting wintry fogs, cloudy days
and sunsets. Knight John Longstaff, artist
Colin Colahan and his wife, the Justus Jor-
gensens and John Farmer were in the
private-view throng.
Two Australians had their names outlined
in colored twinklers last month in London.
Contralto Madame Lily Payling, late of Syd-
ney, gave six concerts at the Queen’s Hall,
her object being to help working girls and
boys to become acquainted with good music
—a very moderate-priced ticket secured
admission for the entire series. ’Cellist
Beatrice Harrison appeared at the Wigmore
Hall. These days she lives mostly at her
cottage in Surrey, where the nightingales,
trill in a wood near by. At her concert she
caused a sensation by wearing a gown made
of colored embroideries confined by a sash
with a nightingale embroidered on each end.
The messenger from Mars returned to this
planet and descended on the Palace Theatre
on Saturday night, just to ginger us up to
the proper frame of mind for Christmas
giving. Gregan McMahon’s presents the
revival.
The E. J. Gravestocks and their small
daughters Betty and Joan are off by the
Niagara to spend a summer holiday in Ma<>ri-
land. Mr. Gravestock has taken a house at
one of Auckland’s seaside resorts and means
to enjoy a rest before recommencing the
piloting of stars next year.
Going the rounds is the story that a motor
firm which sells cars on the t.-p. system was
so annoyed at the delayed payments of some
of its clients that it took desperate action.
Agents were sent to a fashionable ball to.
commandeer certain cars whose hire-
purchasers were viewed as hopeless. When
the hop was over the sedans of these people
were missing, and the police had a busy
time till the mystery was cleared up.
The latest batch of brides has discovered
the charm of water-lilies as a set-off to their
ceremonial robes. One maid who changed her
name recently carried a great sheaf of them
against her ivory velvet gown. They chimed
well with this and with the old lace and tulle
that made up her array.
Wireless is opening up new avenues for
the unlicensed bookmaker, who instals his
set at his home or office and there very com-
fortably takes bets for each race as the
broadcast accounts of the running come in,
while his clients can back their fancies and
follow the racing as well as if they were
on the course.
Cheerful news comes from writer Walsh
and artist Dick Wenban, who went to
London last year to try their luck. Walsh
is kept busy cashing cheques for stories that
have won London editors’ approval, and
Wenban is steadily gaining recognition for
his black-and-white drawings. An altar
date and a honeymoon in Paris have been
included in his pleasant happenings.


Drummond’s Diamond Rings
of Exclusive Design
đ
S 19—£30
d
S 13—£25
ď
S 20—£125
đ
S 1 I—£3o
d
S 2—£25
ď
S 1— £3 7/10/-
đ
S 3—£so
d
S 10—£250
S 12—£30
L?,
S 1 7—£45
S 4—£Bs
,0 —-
S 9—£150
d
S 29—Circle Rinsr,
set with 25 brilli-
ant cut diamonds,
Best value in
Australasia.
£18
All Diamonds are set
in pure, hard platinum.
d
S 30 Diamond
Cluster Ring of
exquisite design,
£60
The exquisite designs that are continually being added
to their selections of Diamond and Gem Rings reflect the
latest examples of a firm that for more than half a
century has specialised in making rings that are designed
for the discriminating. Into the manufacture of
Drummond’s rings enter not only the choicest gems
available, the finest workmanship procurable, but also
the direction of experts whose entire experience has
been inseparably associated with the expression of the
perfect ideal in ring production. Thus it is that
Drummond’s Rings are recognised for their exclusiveness
and individuality. An invitation is extended to inspect
the latest calibre-cut Diamond Rings set with baton-cut
diamond shoulders.
JEWELLERS,
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
BOOKS ON
AVIATION
MOTOR BOAT BUILDING
and a Special Work on
Painting and Decorating
Price. Post.
MODERN AVIATION ENGINES—Design, Repair, Construction and
Operation—Complete, Practical and Up-to-date—Describes Many
Typical American and European Engines and Their Installation, in
2 Vols., by Page. Set 45/- 2/0
AIRPLANE ENGINE ENCYCLOPAEDIA —An Alphabetically-arranged,
Compilation of all Available Data on World’s Airplane Engines—Angle.. 36/- I S
AEROPLANES, SEAPLANES AN AERO ENGINES, by Captain P. Sumner.. 30/- 1/6
AERIAL NAVIGATION AND METEOROLOGY-—Comprehensive Treatise in
Simple Language, by Yancey 20/- 1/3
AEROBATICS, by H. Barber 13/6 -/8
ABC OF FLIGHT, by L. Le Page 10/- -/«
EVERYBODY’S AVIATION GUlDE—Complete Simplified Treatise, bv Page .. 10/- -/6
ABC OF AVIATION, Elementary Instruction Manual, by Page 5/- -/4
LEARNING TO FLY —Course of Elementary Flying Instruction, by Swoffer . . 9/- -/0
SEAPLANE FLYING—R. A. F. Manual 1/6 -/3
MOTOR BOATS AND BOAT MOTORS —Design, Construction —Operation and
Repair—Complete Handbook —Page 20/- 1/3
TWENTY EASY-TO-BUILD MOTOR BOATS—Book of Small Boat Plans and
How to Build Them—Chapman 10/- -/6
SIXTEEN IDEAL MOTOR BOATS—How to Build—Practical Treatise, by
Chapman 10/- -/6
MOTOR BOAT DESIGNS —Text-book Containing Complete Designs of 32
Ideal Runabouts, Cruisers and Auxiliaries, etc., by Chapman 10/- -/6
WOODEN BOAT AND SHIP BUILDING —Practical Course, by R. Van Gaasbeek 7/6 -/6
MOTOR BOAT MANUAL —With Special Section on Outboard Motors and Boats 6/6 -/6
OUTBOARD MOTOR BOAT MANUAL, by Smith 6/- -/4
BOAT BUILDING FOR AMATEURS —Full Instructions for Designing and
Building Punts, Skiffs, Canoes, Sailing Boats, etc., by Kemp 4/6 -/4
MARINE OIL ENGINE HANDBOOK—Handbook of Instruction 3/6 -/4
MOTOR BOATS —Construction of Marine Motors and Motor Boats by Strickland 3/- -/4
SMALL BOAT BUILDING, by Patterson 4/6 -/4
PAINTING AND DECORATING
WORKING METHODS
A textbook for Apprentice and Journeyman.
All about Colors and how to Mix them.
Tools, Materials, Outsiide and Inside work.
Kalsomining, Paper-hanging, Wood-finishing, Floor-finishing
With the help of this book anybody can become an expert Painter and
Decorator.
Plain language is used and the most difficult jobs are made easy.
PRICE, 12/6 POST FREE.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
TECHNICAL BOOKSHOP,
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
I
mm
ST Zm
* Hh
m
mSm
»
am
PM
m
m
w
'
; i
H
Hi
mm
WHISKY AND CRYSTAL
You cannot honour your whisky/ as you can honour
your wine/ By the use ol antique cut glass specially
made for it long ago. Whisky, as a national drink,
is modern. But you can buy this Whisky and Water
Set that is made by Stuarts—who were cutting fine
glass for wine before whisky was known. This/ like
every piece on which the name Stuart is etched/ is an
antique ol the luture.
fuart w
i
English Crystal
Obtainable wherever beautiful glass is sold
4
L4'
r 4*A
Y*A
fftWZ- VS^Sa
iM
fa&x* UhC&'&Mi
wS&e.Ahoo&K
*/.aa
1
AAA A<V«
Lk ‘ ' A A
SQUASHE
FRUIT CORDIALS
A*i/
•rX>7
R
laggM
i. Vaa*' ice c
aa
'Os l ifiXXX.
y// />
'N//A
>A v A
S' * At
(S /s
W A A
4.
CREAM
WHISKY
milk
sodas
, a .A a
Vi
fO/jV;
Lk A A A AW WV |A\A
AXX
AAA
/A A A
Aa/U
X///
aA7
AAA
«&&&»£
A AAA,
i mf&
AAA
turn
AAA
Si A At
.\A
A/jii
S.AA.AA
AAA/.
i\A
eed
♦♦
YI7/TTH a “Sparklet” you are certain of an inex-
haustible supply always on tap! Don’t be content
with a flat, uninteresting drink when you can make
pure, refreshing sodawater instantly from your ordi-
nary water supply.
Be up-to-date—own a “Sparklet” and have sodawater
always available for the unexpected guest, or in case
of sickness. Children love a little soda in their milk,
and it is much more digestible this way.
You can buy your “Sparklet” Syphon and Bulbs to-day
from any leading Store, Chemist or Hardware
Merchant.
"C” Syphons—the popular quart size - • 10/6 each
“C” Bulbs 3/9 per box of twelve
“C” Bulbs ....... I/II per box of six
(Country Prices slightly higher owing to Freight Charges.)
l !l I
ICES AND ICE-CREAM SODAS.—A "Sparklet" enables you to
make delicious ice-creams in a household refrigerator Write for
leaflet and recipes.
d
N
/ A
\ I /
~vr)
r'->
ei
m
m
= i
SK3
*3
Australian Depot tfe Repair Dipt.; SPARKLETS LIMITED, G.P.O. Box 753 G, Sydney, N.S.
\V.


The COMMONWEALTH LIFE (Amalgamated)
ASSURANCES, LIMITED.
JAMES S. INCH, F.A.1.1., General Manager.
Authorised Capital - - - - £500,000
Paid-up Capital ----- - £150,000
Annual Income Exceeds - -- -- -- -- -- £140,000
Payments to Policy-holders Exceed ----- £60,000
Every desirable form of Policy issued in the following departments:—
LIFE, ENDOWMENT, AND GUARANTEED BONUS POLICIES.
PERSONAL ACCIDENT AND SICKNESS, WITH NURSING AND HOSPITAL BENEFITS.
INDUSTRIAL ASSURANCES.
All Ordinary Policies subject to Guaranteed Interim Bonus.
E. H. HIGGS, Secretary.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
The Block, 424-30 George Street (between King and Market Streets), Sydney.
A
LEIPZIG SPRING FAIR (GERMANY).
Incorporating Great Engineering and Building Fairs.
BEGINS MARCH 2nd, 1930.
BUYERS GOING ABROAD must visit the Leipzig Trade Fair, the
world’s largest Manufacturing, Industrial and Engineering Exposition.
Introductions arranged. Full information free on request to —•
Authorised Representatives: G. N. KEPPEL, c/o Marcard Lund & Co., Box 585 D G.P.0., Melbourne.
LARS G. BRUNDAHL, 6 Dailey Street, Box 3127 P G.P.0., Sydney.
A
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON. LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: SHOAV BOAT.
CRITERION: LOMBARDI. LTD.
PALACE: BAR COCHBA.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VA UDE VILLE.
The World’s Best.
I C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
HOLD EVERYTHING.
Amusements.
ING ’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
CLOWNS IN CLOVER.
JVjEW COMEDY THEATRE,
LEON GORDON in
BREWSTER’S Mil-LIONS.
UOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
11 MELBOURNE.
See and Hear All Talking, Singing and Dancing
Special,
RIG TIME.
With LEE TRACY and DAPHNE POLLARD.
A I,SO
JANET GAYNOR and GEORGE O’BRIEN in
SUNRISE.
(Children under 10 not admitted.)
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Like
Giving Jewels
». plus daily service for years
When You Qive This Flashing "TarkerTair”
15 wee
Eyes flash with joy—faces beam
with delight—when you give these two
gems: Parker Duofold Duette of Pen
and Pencil to match!
No more cramped fingers or writing
fatigue —the Parker Duofold Pen has
Pressureless Touch. That’s Geo. S.
Parker’s 47th major improvement.
Write twenty, thirty letters 6,000
words on a filling —with the Oversize
Senior. And Parker Duofold’s barrel
of Non-Breakable Permanite is 25%
lighter than rubber.
Pencil to match turns lead out for
writing— in for carrying. Slip in a new
lead at the tip —no need to take out the
“insides.”
Choice of five flashing colors —three
sizes in Pen and Pencil alike.
To confer real Christmas joy —give
these writing classics! Just one cau-
tion: Look for the imprint —“Geo. S.
Parker—DUO FOLD.” That marks
the genuine.
larker
Duofold
Duofold Pen alone, from 25/-
Duofold Pencil alone, from 21/-
i^ojona
/U3»bVb
mif
Duettes of
Matched
Peri
and Pencil 9
46/-; '5O/-,
62/6.
Distributors:
SLADE, ALLAN & CO. LTD.
Princeton House, 235 Clarence St., Sydney
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queeslands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
For the limbless soldiers’ funds the Nellie
Bramlcy Co. staged the first midnight per-
formance in Brisbane. There was a vaude-
ville programme, and Miss Bramley recited
“Bairnies, Cuddle Doon,” and took part in
“Neapolitan Nights.” The show lasted till
3 a.m. and the Theatre Royal was packed.
Longreach kirk Avas decked in peach-
bloom, wistaria and stephanotis for the
marriage of Robert, son of the late Mr. and
Mrs. H. S. Barton, Sydney, to Heather
Mary, daughter of the J. C. McKenzies, of
Rosebank station, Longreach. The bride’s
liand-broidered ivroy satin had a train of
Brussels rose-point. ITer veil was of cut
tulle, and she carried orchids, St. Joseph’s
lilies and carnations. Lilian McKenzie
’maided in crushed rose satin with a Baku
and crin. hat. She carried, a bouquet of
pink roses. Rose McKenzie, Mary Milne,
Betty Joliffe and B. Spence Avere the other
maids, in pastel pink with poke bonnets,
carrying silver baskets of carnations, frangi-
panni and ferns. The shire hall saw the
feasting and the Qantas air-mail carried
bride and ’groom off to Brisbane, whence
they departed for China and Japan.
Robin, son of the F. W. G. Annands, of
Ascot, married Doris, daughter of the S.
F. Kemps, of Egilibria, Burketown, in the
City Congregational Church. The bridal
array was ; white mariette Avith a veil of
Carrickmacross lace, and the bride carried
a bouquet of roses and carnations. Helen
Annahd ’maided in blue marifette with a
cluster of golden roses at the neck. Her
bandeau was of poAvder-blue and her bouquet
contained sunburst roses and delphiniums.
Sylvia and Alan Corrie Avaited on the bride,
the little girl wearing lemon tulle and carry-
ing a posy of bebe roses. !
Barbara Sisley gave a poetry recital at
All Saints’ Hall, the scope ranging from
compositions of the sixteenth century up to
modern Australian verse. David McKee
Wright and Doris Waraker and our own
Mabel Forrest and Llywelyn Lucas Avere
amongst the moderns.
On the same evening Sir John Goodwin
went to the Theatre Royal for the crown-
ing of the “Prince of Sports,” an effort on
behalf of the Limbless Soldiers’ Fund. The
Avinner was Mick Ryan, the Q.T.C. nominee,
A. E. Coldbam (graziers) being next and
Nellie Bramley, for the theatricals, third.
Kathleen Campbell, who won the Orient
scholarship, was feted by the Alliance Fran-
qaise, E. Griffith Oxley making a pretty
speech. A dance Avas given for the clever
young lady at ATctoria Lodge.
Miss J. Lorenzo, pictured here, has
accepted a
sparkler from
Il'ume, elder
son of Dr.
and Mrs. W.
Ryton Kelly,
Thurso, Ncav
Farm, Bris-
bane. She is
the daughter
of Lieut.-Col.
and Mrs. P.
M. Lorenzo,
The Quarters,
Bar-
racks.
Another re-
cent engage-
ment is that
of Mabel, elder
daughter o f
Mr. and Mrs.
D. Fison, Kan-
garoo Point,
Brisbane, to
the new Surveyor-General, Ralph Harvey.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide
Francis Snow threAv open his beautiful
garden at St. Wilfrid’s, Aldgate, for a
fete to help lift the mortgage on the Stir-
ling District Hospital, which doesn’t enjoy
a Government subsidy. Many hundreds of
motorists wandered over the grounds, and
took tea, served at small tables in the gar-
den. The numerous stalls did good busi-
ness, and over £2OO was gathered in. The
fete w r as launched by ex-Senator Symon’s
lady, who Avas accompanied by her husband.
Lady Hore-Ruthven arrived in time for a
four-o'clock refresher, Avearing a beige-velour
coat trimmed with sable and a broAvn balli-
buntal straw hat. Mrs. Brassey, who came
with her, was in apple-green ensemble with
hat to match.
His Ex., Lady Hore-Ruthven and Cap-
tain and Mrs. Brassey were at the Prince
of Wales Theatre when the Operatic Society
presented “Florodora,” in aid of eight local
charities. The old favorite ran successfully
for a week.
The Aldgate fete affected the attendance
at the A.T.C. meeting at Cheltenham.
Chairman J. 11. Morish did the honors, aided
iy Mrs. Morish, in a smart black coat over
n apple-green frock, with a small black
It hat. She entertained a large number
ladies at luncheon. Mrs. Andrew Ten-
it was the winner of the Ladies’ Brace-
Her husband, who rode Barrier Gold
ictory, is well over 6ft. in his socks, and
ffc looks like a serial. The weather hav-
everted to winter again, coats and furs
in evidence.
Ex., accompanied by son Pat and
rassey, Avas at the matinee perform-
v member of the .T.C.W. musical-
co. at the Theatre Royal. His Ex.
oress Bonython Avcnt on the stage
last curtain and thanked the per-
whose efforts had provided the
a giant Christmas party for the
’ Adelaide’s unemployed.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Managing directors and editors left their
sanctums and had a merry time at the News-
paper Ball, in Temple Court. The Ambas-
sadors’ ballet, a comic little paper called
the Midnight Bawl, which ran into two
editions during the evening, and the sale of
novelties by three attractive “newsboys,”
Ina Randall, Bonnie Spencer and Indie
Ducat, added to the gaiety. Most of the
papers sent fancy sets. Among the most
original were the Woman’s Mirror repre-
sentatives in white cylinders resembling rolls
of paper, with ingenious headgear depicting
the paper’s chief items. The girls from the
Daily News chose white crepe-paper frocks
made in the mode of four different periods in
the daily’s life. The Western Mail sent
four smart little drummer-boys. Pale-
pink and black streamers was the color
scheme of the Sunday Times, and cut-away
coats over black knee-breeches were sported
by the girls from the West Australian.
Fragments of The Bulletin were every-
where. There was a smart Red Page
and an Inky Way, whose white frock
was decorated with enlargements of “Hop’s”
editor’s god and printer’s devil. Harold
Krantz, who made a suitably splenetic
“Wild Cat,” did the drawings. “Poverty
Point” was there in a jaded frock coat and
high hat. “Aboriginalities” sported a very
black face, and there was a “Man-on-tlie-
Land.” Maude Mitchell made an attractive
Woman’s Mirror in a pale-green paper
frock with a girdle and head-dress of reflec-
tors.
The most exquisite flowers mingled with
maidenhair fern went to make wreaths which
covered the steps of the obelisk, when the
State’s war memorial was unveiled. Bunches
gathered from home gardens and posies of
wild flowers were left, too, plucked with
loving hands in memory of those who lost
their lives in the great struggle. Consuls
of eight nations offered their tributes, a
sightless soldier stepped forward with his
association wreath, and a garland from Lady
Birdwood was among the individual offer-
ings. Before the speeches a bugle sounded
“The Last Post” and “The Reveille.”
H. B. Jackson recently escorted his
daughter Ada, who has earned the right to
tag M.Sc. after her name, to meet W.
Fawsett at Ross Memorial Church, West
Perth. A veil of tulle, silver embroidered,
swirled from a coronet of orange blossom
over the bridal gown of white lace and sheaf
of Madonna lilies. Bride’s sister Nina
attended in pink georgette made with long
sleeves and ankle-length skirt. Rejoicings
were held afterwards at the Peppermint
Grove home of the bride’s parents.
Fred Waterhouse came from Singapore to
claim popular Gwen McCallum for his bride.
St. Mary’s, Colin-street, was the meeting
place, and padre Riley officiated. The sleeve-
less wedding garment of white chiffon
showed deep tucks on the skirt, and ankle-
length pointed draperies. A tulle veil foamed
over the lovely train of shell pink veiled
with ivory. Crystal Throssell attended in
powder-blue georgette Avith blue lace length-
ening the back panel, a black hat and sheaf
of pink gladioli.
The Assembly Hall was satisfactorily
booked up for the two nights of the Reper-
tory’s Club’s season with A. A. Milne’s “To
Have the Honor.” Vivacious Jennifer was
played by Maude Dingwall of the neat figure
and perfect hair; Lucy Hosking was the
casual Angela and Dick Forster the charm-
ing ingenue. On both evenings the feminine
members of the cast were laden with parcels
and vegetation.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
Welcome-home parties for Mrs. Edwin
Webster, Etfie Barclay and Mrs. Gray and
daughter Alison, and farewells to Mrs.
Ronald Dick and her family have accounted
for most of the private entertaining recently,
and have kept hostesses busy in their own
homes and at the Queen Mary Club.
V.A.D.’s still meet annually and “fight
their battles o’er again.” At the latest
meeting progressive bridge was the chief
feature of the entertainment. Matron
Shoobridge put in a first appearance since
the de-mobbing.
The Girl Guides showed what they could
do at their display in the City Hall, his
Ex. taking the salute on the Town Hall
steps before the slioav began. The exhibits
included tin-work, such as kitchen safes,
trays and sugar coops, also cookery, basket-
making, model camping outfits and many
other devices, and the girls showed their
prowess in bathing and dressing babies. To
Miss K. Richard, who, unfortunately, was
too ill to be there herself, goes credit for
the idea of the show. In the afternoon and
evening the guiders gave demonstrations of
signalling, drill, folk-dancing and physical
exercises. The Boy Scouts tidied up and did
odd jobs to help.
Commodore O. R. Tinning entertained a
gay party on board the Valkyrie on the
day of the Royal Yacht Club’s opening. The
harbor was Avhite with graceful sails, every-
body revelling in the sunshine which has
been so niggardly this spring.
Mrs. Tom Lyons is back from her trip
to Adelaide and Melbourne, and was at
the races with daughter Sybil, who has been
enjoying a trip with friends to Java during
the last feAv months.
AT THE BACK OF THE NORTH WIND.
Darwin.
The usual Christmas exodus, somewhat
delayed this year on account of the non-
arrival of the Koolinda in September, is iioav
in full swing. I-tus said that more than 140
passages are booked for the November boat,
many of the intending travellers being
Government officials on furlough.
M. C. Turner and his wife, who have had
charge of the Pine Creek police station for
some time, were farewelled recently by the
residents on the eve of their departure on
a long holiday. Mrs. Turner, who is
a qualified nurse, has been a good friend to
the mothers of the district, and has helped
more than one little North Australian into
the world.
Pearling boats have done well this season,
especially on the new beds in the vicinity
of Melville Island. Pearls and peanuts spell
prosperity to the North to-day.


o
MffiM
j
*s
9?*
m
The Unique Gift
of the Year
The Harwood automatically winds itself by the
simple ordinary movements of the wearer’s
arm. Upon the wrist it never stops. Off the
wrist it will keep going for 34 hours. The
Harwood is Dust-proof, Damp-proof and
Cannot Overwind. It is the greatest refinement
in watchmaking and the latest thing in Christ-
mas Gifts. This year the original donor will
give a Harwood Self-winding Watch !
Sole Agents for Australasia:
ARONSON & GO. (Pty) LTD., Holt House, York St.,
Sydney.
Startling Innovations at
j i
Dancing till 1 a.m.
EVENING DRESS OPTIONAL.
A La Carte Service.
Minimum Charge 7/6.
Afternoon and Evening
Mr. Ernest C. Rolls’s New York
Cabaret Revue.
Popular Cabaret Teas
Monday to Friday 2/6
Saturday 4/-
’Phone M 4131 for your reservation.
her eyes. She did not turn to look back,
but commenced to run half-sobbing towards
the shelter of her store.
CHAPTER XIII.
Jim Walters on the Penitent Stool.
As the days passed it seemed as though
Boolgooroo Homestead had become the
centre of a raging battle which lulled only
during the hours of night. Even then when
cattle were in the yards the dust about
the homestead was almost never-ending,
and there was night-long din and moaning
of cattle. The stockmen scarcely ceased
working. They toiled, swore, raced, galloped
from sunrise until dark.
Helen’s stock of bandages and ointment
was being heavily drawn upon. A big man
who answered to the name of Smithy came
to receive attention for an ugly bruise on
his cheek. Sandy Jackson was carried down
to receive attention to a crushed toe. Helen
found herself washing and dressing a foot
which had not been washed for months.
She did not feel any hatred of the work,
though afterwards she paused and wondered
whether she would dress the toe again.
She also wondered why Sandy kept repeat-
ing his quaint expression, “Doodle-oodle-
ooo” when breathing in pain.
Jim Walters only appeared in glimpses,
and it worried her. She always looked for
his figure among any group of men, or
riding behind approaching cattle.
At times she allowed her thoughts a little .
latitude with regard
to' him; but always
she received the
sudden impression
of him standing
above the fallen
bull. The recollec-
tion of his face and
of the words he
spat at her always
caused her to shud-
der and think of
something else.
The great open
view around the
home stead was
clouded beneath a
reddish-brown pall.
The dust floated in
through the fine
baize doors, and
settled everywhere.
The fierce sun
travelled slowly in
a crimson sky.
Every second
day a cattle camp
was held in the
same patch a short
distance up the
horse-paddock, to
be followed the
day after by quick
branding of the
“cut-outs” in the
stockyards. Every
second night cows
and . calves, un-
branded heifers and
“mickies” made an
endless uproar in
the heavy stock-
yards. Dingoes
came in from
across the plains,
and up from the
shelter of the
river lignums, and howled and tracked
silently between the station buildings.
Calves broke through between the rail-
ings of the yards, and wandered plaintively
about the homestead. Lively beasts escaped
and ran wild in the horse-paddock all night.
Every morning at sunrise a number of
blackboys mounted and rounded up the
strays in the horse-paddock, and enticed
them back towards the yards; and often
the task of re-yarding them seemed worse
than yarding the whole mob.
On the eighth day Jim Walters walked
down to the store. Helen discovered him
waiting at the counter. His left hand was
swamped in blood, while jagged bits of skin
and flesh hung down from the back of it
His left shirt sleeve was torn to ribbons,
and at the elbow a long gravel rash ran up
into a heavy black bruise.
“Oh, my goodness!” Helen exclaimed
and started back involuntarily. She had
not spoken to him since he had thrown the
young bull in front of her.
“Have you any boracic?” he asked as
though afraid of her. “And a bottle of
iodine?”
She whipped the articles from a shelf.
Her face, which had been stem at first
sight of him, had changed to a deep
anxiety.
“You’re not taking those away,” she
said breathlessly. “Come into the office,
quick! You’ve to be properly bandaged.”
“I can get bandaged up at the yards,” he
answered and stretched out his right hand
for the bottle and ointment. 'She darted
her hand out also; it closed upon his,
tossed it sideways and retained the articles.
“Mr Walters, don’t be such an utter
idiot! Come into the office!”
He looked at her steadily. Her face was
white, except for two bright spots in her
cheeks. Her eyes flashed defiantly. *Jim
Walters felt a queer thrill of admiration at
her show of spirit. He stepped around the
end of the counter, and found that she
was already ahead of him.
They entered the office. An enamel basin
had been fitted into one corner.
“Sit down!” she ordered.
He sat down on the form, and discovered
that he was feeling a little weak and
uncertain. Splashes of blood lay behind
him. He felt heroic before her, and wished
he could force himself to stand up and
dismiss the injury as nothing but a slight
scratch; but it would need an effort.
She approached him, scissors in hand.
She reached forward and snipped the torn
shirt-sleeve away quickly.
"Get to Hell out of it!"
“Raise your arm a little,” she ordered.
He raised it; she felt it firmly, placed a
cork against it high up, and tied it tightly.
Jim Walters felt a painful throbbing, but
noticed that the bleeding had almost
stopped. She paused a moment and
watched him; her face was troubled.
“Come over to the basin,” she said.
He rose, and found himself weaker than
he expected. She turned quickly as he
stepped uncertainly, snatched up a tall stool
and placed it before the basin.
“Can you get up on that?”
He found it difficult*, and she helped him.
“You’ve got a nasty arm,” -she .said
severely. “You must do quietly just as
you are told.”
She tore off little pieces of dressing,
poured more boracic into the water, and
commenced to wash his arm and hand
firmly, but gently.
“Does it hurt?” she asked more kindly
“No,” he replied quickly and clenched
his teeth. But knives seemed to be cutting
through him.
As Helen washed the arm Jim Walters’s
legs twined about the stool until it looked
as though he would crush the thing to
fragments. The color drained from his
face; his teeth gritted, and strong words
flooded the back of his mind. He would
like to have sworn decently, to have bolted
from this cool, methodical girl; but some-
thing greater than his own will-power held
him.
She snipped away the broken skin with-
out showing any sign that she noticed
him wincing. She studied the gashes and
cuts, picked out small gravel stones with
a pair of fine pincers, and then placed a
liquid over the bare flesh which caused
Jim Walters to groan in sudden pain.
“I’m sorry,” she murmured, and reached
again for the arm he had snatched from
her, “but it has to be done.”
The fragrance of her hair just before his
face almost intoxicated him.
To Jim Walters the worst had passed
The great pain lessened rapidly until it
almost became a pleasure. Yet he was
again aware of his weakness; and with deft
movements Helen began to bind his arm
well up. He watched her bent head, and
thoughts tumbled through his mind. He
would like to—somehow he scarcely knew
just what he would like to do first. Her
hands were caressing in their soft touch.
“You appear to be used to this game,” he
ventured at last.
“Yes.”
“I think I’ll go and bust my other hand,”
he said with a wry laugh.
“Then you’ll bandage it yourself,” she
snapped, looking at him directly. Their
eyes met, and he discovered her glance was
cool and serene. The discovery amazed
and hurt him.
“You look angry with me,” he said in
hurt tones. “I—l shouldn’t have come. I
didn’t know—you didn’t want to do it.”
“You’re just more foolish when you say
things like that,” she replied. “Please keep
still.” Her voice sounded a little harsh.
“Miss Delaney, what have I done to
offend you?” he asked earnestly after a
few moments’ hard thought. “Don’t you
reckon it’s fair to tell me?”
She looked at him steadily. He could
not read her mind. She seemed to be
judging his sincerity.
“I’m going to finish bandaging this arm,”
she declared. “After that you may talk.”
She procured a needle and cotton and
commenced to sew up the bandage.
“Now place your arm across your chest,”
she ordered.
He obeyed wonderingly.
Then she commenced to tie his arm in
position. He watched her dully.
“But I won’t be able to use it, tied up
like that,” he protested.
“Certainly not!”
“But”
“Yes?” Her eyes met his and conquered
them.
“But—see—l’ve to brand—and—and
things,” he tried to explain.
“There are other men,” she reminded
him curtly. “They can do without you,
though there is nothing to prevent you
supervising, if you wish.”
She touched the arm approvingly, stood
back and looked at him.
“I want to thank you,” she said then,
in a calm and natural voice, “for saving
my life the other day.”
He started violently on the stool.
“Saving your life—when?”
“When you threw that animal—that bull
that chased me.” Her tone was not en-
thusiastic. She seemed to be thinking and
speaking against her will; but doubt had
crossed her face.
“Oh yes, I remember. But I hardly
noticed you. I think I just saw you and
then wondered afterwards where you had
got to. I remember you were in the road.”
“I remember, also, Mr. Walters.” Her
voice trembled. “But for your action I
might have been killed, certainly I would
have been severely injured. But, Mr.
Walters, I don’t
think I deserved
speaking to in such
a manner.”
Jim- W alters
stiffened again. His
mouth opened in
amazement. His
eyes were earnestly
questioning.
“Speaking to
you?” he gasped.
“How?”
“I haven’t any
wish to repeat it.”
“I ap ologise,
Miss Delaney.”
Jim Walters’s
voice was sincere.
“But I can’t recol-
lect. You see—well,
I was after the
‘mickie.’ We shot
hi m afterwards.
He’d been giving
trouble all day. He
ripped the side out
of my favorite
stock-horse and we
had to shoot the
horse, too. I don’t
know what I said
to you, Miss
Delaney—l don’t
know. I chased
him with the idea
of belting him
back; but I saw
you were right in
ray horse’s path, so
that I couldn’t
turn him. There
was only one thing
to do, and that was
to throw him.”
“You don’t remember speaking to me?”
Jim Walters paused a little.
“I daresay I said something,” he replied
slowly. “You were in the road. But what
I said I have no idea. I am sorry—what-
ever it was.” j
Helen Delaney studied his tanned face.
He appeared sincere. His eyes were
troubled.
“I’m afraid, Mr. Walters,” she said
kindly, “that you lose control of yourself
now and again. It’s, a bad habit. You
really did hurt me very much; but I’ll
forget it.”
“Thanks—thanks, awfully,” he declared
with a burst of relief and rose to his feet.
“I am wondering whether you would care
to visit the yards some time with me to
see the men at work?”
She shook her head.
“I would like to,” she answered, “but I’ve
seen enough to keep me away. Women
cause trouble in such places.”
(Continued on next page.)


If You Seek Safe Investment
Instead of Speculation
Place your savings in an investment where there
is definite security behind it. This is no time
for speculation. Invest where you know your
money is safe and where you can get it back
when you want it. Read particulars below about
this safe investment that is now available.
£50,000
AUTHORISED ISSUE
COLLATERAL TRUST
SECURED 8% PARTICIPATING
DEBENTURES
SERIES A
(with Profit-sharing Certificate Attached).
IMPORTANT FEATURES:
1. —Debentures are issued in sums of £lO
£2O, £5O, £lOO and £2OO, affording
equal opportunity to small as well as
large investors to secure this unques-
tionably gilt-edged investment.
2. —lnterest is payable quarterly by
Coupon. The loan to be repaid on
September 1, 1939. A substantial
premium must be paid to investors if
Corporation desires to redeem Deben-
tux-es before due date.
3. —Debentures are secured by £125 of
absolutely sound collateral deposited
with Trustee for every £lOO of Deben-
tures outstanding, besides being secured
by all assets, including uncalled capital,
of the Commercial Credit Corporation
of Australia, Limited. They have
priority over Preference and Ordinary
Shares.
4. —Australasian Trustees and Executors,
Limited, Sydney, is Trustee. All De-
bentures are certified and validated by
Trustee,
5. —Debenture Holders have the option to
“cash in” their investment at any time
alter one year. This is a fair indica-
tion of the safety of this investment
and a tremendous advantage.
6. —Debenture holders receive Certificate
of Profit Participation, paying up to
41 per cent, of profits of Corporation
besides the 8 per cent, assured interest.
This may bring total interest to 124
per cent, per annum.
7. Investors may purchase Debentures on
easy instalments receiving 6 per cent,
interest on payments, and full benefit
of 8 per cent, interest and profit par-
ticipation after final payment.
8. —There are many additional safe-
guards for the investor offering abso-
lute protection against loss. Pros-
pectus gives complete details.
A TEN-YEAR INVESTMENT THAT YOU CAN “CASH IN”
AFTER ONE YEAR IF YOU DESIRE.
SEND TO-DAY FOR COMPLETE PROSPECTUS
af’-AuLstrecHa, .CurutedL
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
AGGREGATE BALANCE SHEET
OF THE
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
30th SEPTEMBER, 1929.
LIABILITIES.
Notes in Circu-
lation .. £584,091 0 0
Deposits, Accrued
Interest and
Rebate . . 66,056,051 13 0
£66,640,142
Bills Payable and other Liabilities
(which include Reserves held for
Doubtful Debts, Amount at
Credit of Investments Fluctua-
tion Account, and Amounts
Due to other Banks) .. 7,284,445
Paid-up Capital £7,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 5,900,000 0 0
Profit and Loss —
£1,163,478 10 6
Less Interim Divi-
dends- to 30th
June,' 1929 —
£562,500 0 0
: £600,978 10 6
. 14,000,978
13
2
10
0
9
6
Coin, Bullion,
Gov ernment
Legal Tender-
Notes and Cash
at Bankers. . £
Notes of other
Banks
Money at short
call in London
Investments—
British and
Colonial Gov-
e r n ment
Securities ..
Municipal and
other Securi-
ties ..
Due by other
Banks
Bills Receivable
in London
and Remit-
tan c e s in
transit
ASSETS.
11,180,804 4
12,245 0
1,920,000 0
7,932,563 2
394,641 0
767,463 9
4,839,889 13
0
0
0
1
0
1
3
x £27,047,606 8 5
Bills Discounted, and Loans and
Advances to Customers . . . . 59,427,959 17 10
Bank Premises 1,450’000 0 0
• £87,925,566 6 3
Contingent Liabilities—
Outstanding Credits, as per
Contra ... • • • • • • 2,880,731 1 7
£87,925,566 6 3
Liabilities of Customers and others
on Letters of Credit, as per Contra 2,880,731 1 7
£90,806,297 7 10
£90,806,297 7 10
Dr. PROFIT AND LOSS, 30th SEPTEMBER, 1929.
Cr.
To Interim Dividend for Quarters
ended 31st December, 1928,
31st March, 1929, and 30th
June, 1929, at 10 per cent, per
annum, paid in terms of Clause
105 of Deed of Settlement out
of the Year’s Profits . . . . £562,500 0 0
Balance proposed to be dealt with as follows ;—
To Quarter’s Dividend
to 30th September,
1929, at the rate
of 10 per cent, per
annum out of the
Year’s Profits .. £187,500 0 0
„ Augmentation of
the Reserve Fund 250,000 0 0
„ Balance carried
forward . . .. 163,478 10 6
600,978 10 6
By Amount from last Account .. £168,653 13 11
Balance of Year’s Profits after
deducting Rebate on Current Bills,
Interest on Deposits, paying
Income, Land and other Taxes
amounting to £350,086 15s. 6d.,
reducing valuation of Bank
Premises, providing for Bad and
Doubtful Debts, and fluctuations
in the value of Investment Securi-
ties, and including recoveries
from Debts previously written off
as bad ; 994,824 16 7
£1,163,478 10 6
£1,163,478 10 6
Dr. RESERVE FUND, 30th SEPTEMBER, 1929.
Cr.
To Balance (used in the business of
the Bank) .. •• •• £6,150,000 0 0
£6,150,000 0 0
By Balance £5,900,000 0
~ Amount from Profit and Loss . . 250,000 0
£6,150,000 0
. . £6,150,000 0
0
0
0
“
By Balance ..
A. C. DAVIDSON, General Manager.
F. D. HOBBS, Chief Accountant.
Audited, 12th November, 1929.
HARRINGTON PALMER )
W. E. SOUTHERDEN j
Auditors.
Jim Walters rose to go towards the
door, then turned.
‘‘Miss Delaney,” he declared warmly,
"I’d sooner cut my hands off than know-
ingly insult you. God only knows what
I said-—but I’m sorry for it.”
He walked out from the office and left
the store.
Helen followed him to the door and
looked after him.
It was almost sundown and he was head-
ing towards the bachelors’ quarters. She
was puzzled and hurt. He appeared to be
a gentleman; yet the expression on his
face as he held the big “mickie” down
hung vividly in her mind; and his hoarse
voice telling her to get to—Hell out of
the way drummed in her ears. Apparently
he had been beyond control of himself,
and had not been aware of his own words.
All her life she had been brought up
to believe that anger was a sin; that self-
control was one of the greater virtues;
that many vices originated in anger.
She would have thought and worried
more had she watched Jim Walters at the
tea table. The chief engineer blamed his
gruffness on to pain from his torn hand
and arm. The jackeroos wondered whether
he was growing feverish from overwork. At
dusk, when he inspected the cattle in the
yards, he swore violently at the blackboys;
and a few minutes later he sat moodily on
the long bare verandah of. the bachelors’
quarters and gazed down towards the store.
Sandy Jackson was happy. His voice
sounded from the hut, reciting and singing
parodies and wild songs.
CHAPTER XIV.
Jim Walters “Gets It Bad.”
Jim Walters’s hand was hurt more seri-
ously than he thought. He found he could
not take a further active part in the brand-
ing, but had to leave the leadership out
on the open camps to Bob Owen.
Helen demanded that he should return to
her every twenty-four hours to have his
hand and arm attended to. His first return
was on time. He found her studious and
quiet, though solicitous.
On his second day he was at the store
an hour before she opened it.
Helen met him with a smile.
“You’re early,” she .greeted. “Is it hurt-
ing?”
“No,” he answered. “I just thought I’d
like to talk for awhile.”
“How' terrible! —what are we going to
talk about?”
“Er—l don’t know. I was thinking I’d
like you to talk' about—one thing and an-
other—cities and towns.”
“Cities and towns?” Helen’s voice was
genial. “Have you had much experience
of them, Mr. Walters?”
Jim Walters spoke like a drowning man
clutching at a plank; and as he continued
he saw she was interested. He mentioned
an uncommon name.
“The Humarts—you know the Humarts?”
Helen stood before him, eager question-
ing in her eyes.
Jim Walters felt an odd joy, and a thrill
of sheer pride as he answered.
“Yes, I know them rVell—Elsie, Bob,
Sandy, Pop; the whole tribe of them”
“Elsie Humart,” Helen broken in, “is an
old school pal of mine. I’ve got her photo
—their photos, all of them—in here. Come
and have a look at them!”
And as Jim Walters walked into the little
office behind her he knew he had lost his
heart to her in a manner which made him
feel reckless.
■.* # * $
Sandy Jackson and Bob Owen fought a
one-sided battle with fists and boots and
language in front of the station water-tank.
Jim Walters and Helen came on the
scene just as Bob Owen punched Sandy
against the corrugated tank.
“Oh, what is it?” Helen’s hand rested on
his arm.
“I’ll go and see.”
She followed him closely.
Jim Walters walked between the two
men, raised his unhurt arm and stopped
them.
“He’s a , that’s what he is!” Bob
Owen’s breath came quickly. “If I had
another minute at him I’d bust the
all up!”
“You’ll get all the fighting next week
in the stock-camp,” Walters advised coolly.
“Better shake hands now and postpone
it till then—we’ll have gloves.”
“Gloves be damned!” Sandy snapped.
“Let me at him! Big as he is I’ll chew his
face off!”
Sandy made a threatening move, and Bob
Owen darted a foot forward also. Jim
Walters’s face changed; it grew almost evil
in its grimness.
“Clear to Hell out of it,” he commanded.
“You ought to know better, Owen!”
“Branding’s finished,” Owen grumbled,
“and this damn fleabite starts giving me lip.
I whaled into him, that’s all. I’ll knock
his rat-faced little”
“You’d better go over to the hut and
cool yourself,” Walters advised grimly,
“and you — you can come with me, Jack-
son!” , , , ...
The men who had gathered around dis-
persed. Bob Owen went towards the hut,
surrounded by a small circle of supporters,
and Sandy Jackson stayed behind.
Helen had disappeared; and Jim Walters
felt uneasiness. .
“You’ve a reputation for getting into
trouble” he said quietly to Sandy; “and
Hinton’ told me he would stand no more
of it from you. You gave him a few grey
hairs when you were here before. I don’t
want to preach, Sandy lad, but how about
taking things easy?”
“But the dirty cow says I was a”
“Doesn’t matter what he said. He may
have been speaking the truth. You can
fight, as much as you wish at the back
of the run; but remember there are women-
folk about the homestead nowadays, and
they don’t appreciate rowdyism.”
Sandy’s face suddenly lightened.
“Gee—she’s a great kid, ain’t she?”
“Who?”
“That there Miss Delaney. Doodle-
oodle-oo!”
“Doodle-oodle” Jim Walters re-
peated, and cursed beneath his breath. He
hated the expression and hated his growing
habit of using it unknowingly. He felt
angry with himself.
X * -’f *
Mr. Hinton’s house glinted in the hot
sun fifty yards away. Walters remembered
that he was due to make a report, and
went towards it.
After an hour of erratic talking and
questioning, Mr. Hinton sighed loudly.
“I say, James, where are you?” he asked
gruffly. “Here, or away to blazes?”
“Me—oh, I’m here!”
“Man, I’ve been trying to talk to you
for the last hour; and you answer just
‘Yes’ or ‘No,’ or nothing at all.”
Jim Walters shook himself vigorously.
“No, I was just thinking,” he declared and
became moody again.
Hinton nodded. He rose and left the
room quietly. Jim Walters welcomed his
departure. It gave him another respite
to think. All the adjectives and nouns
which described Helen Delaney were
clamoring for clarity in his mind. His
mental odyssey was broken by the sound
of returning footsteps.
Hinton entered the room. His hands
were behind his back.
“There she is!” he snapped and passed
over a large photograph. “Now, for good-
ness sake, think of her, think, mutter,
yabber, murmur, sigh, blush and all the rest
of the love tripe. I’m going for a cup of
tea. It’s only waste of time asking you.
I’ll be back in ten minutes.”
For a few minutes Jim Walters sat with
the photo in his hands— her photo. She
must have been looking at someone whom
she liked veiy much when that photograph
was being taken, and Jim Walters felt a
heaviness numb his feelings.
He scratched his head. He would like
to be looked at with such an expression.
Lighter footsteps fell on the verandah
outside. He did not hear them. He did
not see the light grow dimmer in the room
as a figure stood in the doorway; but he
almost jumped from his chair as a curt
voice stung him:
“Mr. Walters!”
(To be continued next tceek.)
Galahad Remembers.
NOW that I know all the lowest and worst
in you,
Now that I see you at last as you are,
How t shall I think of the good that was first
in you?
How shall I mourn the eclipse of a star?
Ages ago, in the earliest morn of me—
Years that are ages have broadened
between—
Bright from your eyes sprang the hope that
was born of me,
AH I have ventured and all I have been.
How could I know you were false to my
brother-men,
Luring them on with your beauty and wit?
Know that my angel was demon to other
men,
Leading them down to the verge of the Pit ?
Easy the way, had you thought, for ensnar-
ing me,
Heart of a boy and a stranger to Love.'
What was it held you to guiding me, sparing
me? :
Something outside us, beyond us, above. '
So may some marsh-light that burns but for
devilry,
Mazing and miring the' peasants who
roam,
Beacon just once to some rambler from
revelry,
Bringing him safely, incredibly, home !
Now that I see all the lowest and icorst in
you, .
Now that I recognise, now that I know,
Hoio shall I think of the good that was first
in you?
Hoio shall I render the debt that I owe?
“Lord,” I will say, in the ultimate Reckon-
ing,
“Lord, if my service was aught in Thy
sight,
Count it to her, for I drew at her beckoning
Out of the darkness and into the light.
“What though no priesthood of earth may
have shriven her?
What though her sins were as scarlet to
see?
Shall she not rise and her guilt be forgiven
her,
Just for the good that she did unto me?
“ ‘Unto the least of them’—so Thou hast said
it, Lord;
I was the least, and she guarded me well.
Am I Thy knight? Then to her be the
credit, Lord,
Saving her soul from the borders of Hell.”
Laying aside all the lowest and worst in you,
Setting far off all the ill you hare known,
Cling like a child to the good that was first
in you,
Meet me at length on the steps of the
throne.
S.A.
S. TALBOT SMITH.


ms
mi
WS
(fast
m
m
3±a£Sß
W®s
Fertilisers —An Investment
"THE results of manurial trials on potatoes, carried out at Musk,
near Daylesford (Victorian Journal of Agriculture, September,
1929), threw into bold relief the investment aspect of an application,
of 3 cwts. of superphosphate and 1 cwt. of Sulphate of Ammonia.
This mixture returned an increase of 96 per cent, in weight of crop,
and a cash increase of over £lB per acre. This result is not unusual.
Sulphate of Ammonia
has proved itself a highly profitable adjunct to superphosphate
in practically every potato-growing district in Australia.
Sulphate of Ammonia is obtainable from all Fertiliser Manufacturers or their Agents •
Literature from
THE AUSTRALIAN SULPHATE OF AMMONIA PROPAGANDA COMMITTEE
360 Collins Street, Melbourne, and Box 481 AA, G.P.0., Sydney.
Legal Notices.
TN THE ESTATE OF PATRICK
McCARTHY late of Dunedin in New
Zealand Retired Baker Deceased.
TO the following: persons and all persons
claiming by through and under them: —
(a) The children and stepchildren of James Carthy
or McCarthy and Hanora Burke formerly of
Cappoquin County Waterford Ireland who were
married on the 9th February 1832 at Modeiigo
County Waterford Ireland and who are both
buried in Affane Churchyard County Waterford
aforesaid and particularly the following:—
(1) Janies Carthy or McCarthy otherwise known
as Paw Carthy who was baptised in St.
Mary’s Church Cappoquin on the 10th
February 1847 and was in New York City
in the year 1878.
(2) Nora Carthy or McCarthy who was in New
York City in the year 1878.
(3) Mary Carthy or McCarthy who was at one,
time in the employ of Sir John Keane,
Cappoquin but subsequently removed to
London England.
(b) The brothers sisters half-brothers and half-
sisters of James Carthy or McCarthy the father
of the said Patrick McCarthy.
(e) The brothers sisters half-brothers and half-
sisters of Hanora Carthy nee Burke the mother
of the said deceased and the daughter of
Patrick Burke.
(d) The children of Walter Burke son of the said
Patrick Burke and particularly William Burke
who emigrated, to Australia and Michael Burke.
(e) The children of Patrick Burke the younger son.
of the said Walter Burke and particularly
Nora Burke Michael Burke Kate Burke and
John Burke.
PURSUANT to fin order made on the
10th day of October 1029 by a Judge of the
Supreme Court of New Zealand you are
hereby called upon to send in to the under-
signed on or before the 31st day of March
1030 your claims to the estate of the said
Patrick McCarthy who died on the 26th day
of September 1924 failing which the said
estate will be distributed amongst those
entitled thereto disregarding your claims.
DATED at Wellington this 22nd dav of
October, 1929.
GEO. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
TO PHILIP CECIL LAING son of JOHN
WILLIAM LAING who died intestate
at Waitara in New Zealand on the
28th October 1926 and to his children
if any and to all persons claiming by
through or under him or them.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
Btli November 1929 by a Judge of the
Supreme Court of New Zealand you are
hereby called upon to send in to the under-
signed on or before the 31st March 1930
your claims to the estate of the above-
named deceased, failing which the said estate
will be distributed amongst those entitled
thereto disregarding your claims.
DATED at Wellington this 18th day of
November, 1929.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Refrigeration
Without Ice
CITY COMFORTS IN THE COONTRY
“THE ECONOMY REFRIGERATOR”
“It saves its cost in food not lost.”
d d
Packed and delivered rail or boat, Sydney.
Everything complete; Price, £37.
Safe, sure and automatic refrigeration
by Primus Stove.
No working parts to lose.
Costs l§d. per day to run.
You will marvel at the clever idea ol
Refrigeration by means of heat instead
of Ice. Where Ice is unprocurable
it is worth its weight in gold.
To operate: —
Once a day —take the Freezing Unit
out of the Ice Chest and stand it on
the Primus Stove, and go about voui
usual duties. In a short time the
whistle will blow, indicating that tin
temperature is right for the Freeze:
to be put back in the Ice Chest.
It is simplicity itself. There is nothing
to get out of order, and it will last a
lifetime.
The Ice Chest Cabinet is 24in. long,
18in. wide and 19in. deep, with
porcelain-enamel interior; comprises
Freezing Unit, Ice Tray, two Shelves
and Primus Stove.
Write for pamphlet concerning “ECONOMY REFRIGERATOR,
“Keeps food nice without the Ice.”
Manufacturers’ Representatives:
F. R. STRANGE, LIMITED,
3 Hamilton Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 8W6129.
which
KIR'S
CIDER
kitzs.
t *aliandppl<fa
Kitz’s Sparkling Cider
The finest drink with meals, as it
aids digestion and prevents acidity.
Dr. D. T. Fernie, of London, states: —
Cider is not only the most wholesome and
hygienic of all drinks, but is a preventive
against and a remedy for
Stone, Gravel, Gout, Obesity
and Fermentative indigestion.
Agents in all States.
HEAD OFFICE: MELBOURNE.
Model C.T., as illustrated
Suitable for most Ameri
can Cars.
5/6
in scaled
metal box.
£
*4O?
I*6
14V
§®
m
A New Set of
LODGE
PLUGS
is a wonderful stimulus to
your engine.
Lodge Plugs can be bought from
leading accessory dealers, garages and
stores.
LODGE PLUGS, LTD.,
RUGBY, ENG.
HAIR
V
tr
need
[s|o
HERES
d
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
&CuLkmS (.MEXICAN)
UkUtud Steam,
'''■REMOVES THE GREY *
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (•}/<>), 6d. being postage.
d
QUICKLY STOPS
STOMACH DISTRESS
WITHOUT HARMFUL ANTI-ACIDS.
By taking anti-acid compounds the occasional
stomach sufferer may become a pronounced
dyspeptic! The correct thing to do is to
get some six-grain tablets of Para-Pepsin
from the chemist, and take three during
meals or whenever pain is felt. These not
only correct acidity, but they banish the
cause of acidity. Para-Pepsin ensures the
proper digestion of the food; prevents the
possibility of distress, or stops it naturally
if it has started. Para-Pepsin forms no
habit; leaves no bad effects; is as good for
a mild stomach-ache as for dyspepsia. It
costs but a trifle at any chemist’s; is pleasant
to take; breath-purifying, and safe.
Amalgamated Laboratories, Kembla Building, Sydney,
and all Chemists.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
made
aaaana mkiw
u ?!W3d
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE
3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.


rs-
£
Ml
wrttt
>
Iwfti
SB
EsfS
On
H
n: m '
n
s
> “ V%7
BMg
uspHife
mix
w
mm
m
SMH
SiS
mm
vmmmm
:■:
SSPJ
iWSiSIS*
/////>-
iiuLiliEiliiimiMm
On time f
“ CYMA ” watches can be
relied upon to g,et you there
on time. No fear of bein& a
minute fast or a minute slow.
They are ON TIME ALL
THE TIME and, unlike many
' other watches, are absolutely
interchangeable, so that in case
of accident, any spare part is
available to your watchmaker,
allowing, him to &ive you
prompt service at a minimum
cost.
For style and appearance
“CYMA” watches have no
equal, as each of the equisite
models is designed to meet the
demand of the most fastidious.
‘The World’s Wonder Watch’
SOLD BY ALL
JEWELLERS
THE
LATEST
CREATION
$
W'
&
V
th e Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania,
Is the only daily effectively covering the North
of Tasmania, where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
part of Tasmania that is prosperous and forging
ahead.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from,:
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd., Mr. V. W. Margetts, Mr. W. G. Dougan,
73-75 Patterson Street, 122 Flinders Street, 726 Herald Building,
Launceston. Melbourne. 66 Pitt Street. Svdnev.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Never a
Dull Moment!
A holiday in beautiful
Tasmania is packed with
happiness from beginning
to end. Everywhere
glorious mountains, rivers
and lakes! Hospitable
people, thrilling sunshine
—and tons of exciting
things to do!
The journey from Sydney
to ;
HOBART
by the luxurious 7000-ton
Zealandia is a pleasure in
itself. This favorite ship
runs regularly to T as-
mania’s happy capital.
Start your arrangements
—get in touch with the
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAU,
Ocean House, 34 Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
✓7
n
Happy Memories
SCXHE charming fun-filled
■Ai-'table-ware that Hilda
Cowham has designed for
Shelleys makes children’s
mealtimes merry: not a baby
but will laugh at it! And
when the children of to-day
recall the jolly breakfasts
and tea-times in the old nur-
sery, mug and milk jug, plate
and saucer each with a joke
in it will not be least among
their happy memories.
Ask to see the latest
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
China
Nursery Ware
iy Lucie Attweu
c-Hilda Cowham
Domestic Ware
Jelly Moulds
- Accommodation
- -160.
Central,
Comfortable,
Convenient,
5 Mts. G.P.O.
Excellent r
Cuisint
Billiards,
Dancing.
ORIENTAL HOTEL
*V r \ (No License)
KING'S CROSS, SYDNEY.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET
TARIFF:
Weekly,
£3/3/- to
£4/4/-
Daily,
11/6 to 12/6.
Room & B’fast,
8/6 to 9/6
FL2034
F 3575
, /M
f
m
HR SPr
be your Father Xmas!
In the famous Red Box—posted to you the day they are made.
HILLfER’S
ADDfUESS
f-W-J LS IVX A Ak «
CHOCOLATES
162-166 Pitt Street
S Y~D N E Y~*
PHICES
34 5/6. 64 10/. Ll/6.
20/ and. 30/
d


QN
BANX
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
IT SELLS AT SIGHT
THE NEW
PROBATE INSURANCE!
Under ordinary conditions £lOOO Probate Insurance costs .•
the proposer, aged 50 years, over a period of 10 years,
£425/8/4.
The NEW PROBATE policy covers the same
risk for 10 years for £l6O.
Write Pacific Underwriters,
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
for full particulars. .»*’
&
O^ 6
o°. \<V l > •
-f ■'•^V & f^° U '^ (N ' jJ
t> v
VICHY
3
•HI
031
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Fly Face.
ALBERT DORRINGTON
TELLS HOW BULLY HAYES CHEATED A
CANNIBAL KING OUT OF A MEAL.
A LADY to see you, Cap’n. Name of
Abigail—Mrs. Clara Abigail!” The
mate of the brig Leonora spat defer-
entially over the rail, while a Dawes Point
policeman was scanning the vessel’s lines
from the cover of Lanigan's wharf.
Captain William H. llayes was at that
moment inspecting a line of cheap cotton
trade sent aboard by the industrious Moss
Solomon, of Lower George-street. There
were times when old Solomon’s ‘‘fire sale”
remnants found eager buyers among the
dusky beauties of the Tokelaus and the
ivingsmills. Although the master of the
Leonora owed Solomon nearly eighty pounds
on account of the last consignment of turkey
twills to Tonga and Wallis Island, the push-
ful storekeeper knew that Hayes could be
trusted with twice that amount.
“I don’t know Mrs. Abigail.” Hayes
halted on the cabin stairs reflectively, 'his
head i nil of lengths and pieces belonging to
the cargo under the fore hatch.
Just then the shadow of a woman slanted
over the cabin stairhead. Clara Abigail
was staring down at him from the opening.
i, n “ at brief, searching scrutiny Hayes
telt that every sin he had committed was
revealed to the owner of the black bonnet
with the satin strings.
TT “ 1 would like a word with you, Captain
Hayes!
( lara Abigail was the biggest white
woman he had ever seen. Her long black
sateen dress swept the deck as she moved.
Her heavy elastic-sided boots would have
fitted a man. Only a Caesar or an Alexander
could have worn elastic sides with the dig-
nity of Clara Abigail.
,u* '"r” I'™ 1 '™ «bid to meet you, ma’am,” he
faltered. You re looking for someone, per-
haps?
Clara Abigail was sure she had found
Hayes. Her sulphur-colored eyes beamed.
.Just a matter of a man named Wilfred
Abigail my husband. He’s been away for
three and a half years. Captain Nicholas
1 olhver, ot the schooner Flirt, reported
having met him at Malicolo a year ago. Many
things have happened since then.” She
paused to sweep the long expanse of black
sateen dress with her gloved hand. “And it
is now necessary for Wilfred to return
home.
Hayes met the boring, sulphur-hued eyes
with increasing loss of self-respect. Another
fifty seconds and Clara was going to rattle
him badly. Relief in the way of language
was out of the question.
‘Now, Captain Hayes,” she went on with
terrifying assurance, “you know the islands
better than our map-makers. They are not
crowded with Wilfred Abigails. I am a lone
woman in Sydney. I make my appeal in
the hope you will restore Wilfred to me.
1 lungs have happened. And Wilfred must
come home!”
Hayes listened in silence, while a swift
recollection of the absent Wilfred flash; and
through his mind. A small, spherical man,
jointless and elusive as an eel-—no way
to get hold of him. Fly Face Willy! His
angularity had vanished under the palms of
a dozen island roosting-grounds. A fat,
blowsy little derelict with the beach in his
bones.
But Bully Hayes had always played men’s
games. Women had come weeping to his
gangway. But neither tears nor threats
had ever loosened the hatch coamings where
their men lay hidden.
“I don A know Wilfred Abigail, ma'am. A
sailorman s. advice to you is to let the hound
rip. Take it from me, he wouldn’t be worth
poisoning if I found and fed him for a year!”
Strong men often wilted under Hayes’s
raillery. Clara Abigail merely brightened as
one who thrived on the danger line. She
began to like this big thunder-browed man
with the voice of a breaking typhoon. She
began to like his slamming hands on tlie
stair rail, his stand-off eye. His scorn of
men seemed to come from the white brine of
bellowing reefs. Storms were here if she
wanted them.
“It’s years since I heard the voice of a
man!” she sighed.
“Well,” he glared at her fiercely, “you’ve
heard one now. And, ma’am, I’ve got my
work to do. Go home. Get this fat little
gin-bag out of your mind. Choose another
partner and give him hell from Monday till
Friday !”
Clara Abigail beamed as one drawing
nourishment from the breath of the strong.
“I thank you, Captain Hayes, for your sin-
cere advice. Unfortunately the day has come
when Wilfred matters. He must come home.”
Herewith Clara Abigail dug into a black
leather bag she carried. A sound of tinkling
gold reached Hayes. Slowly she counted fifty
sovereigns, held them in the hollow of her
gloved hands like a woman feeding corn to
hens.
. “This and another fifty when you land Wil-
tred at this wharf, Captain Hayes. I want no
yoiffiml Min”” W ° ld wiU be enough - Will
. Hayes sucked in a deep breath. The burn-
mg hatred of her elastic sides left him.
“Another fifty when I bring Wilfrid home,”
he growled, counting the money and slapping
it into his pocket. Then he reflected a
moment. “This is June,” he said, after
a while. “I’ll be back at this wharf some
day in November. Have a cab here, ma’am;
Wilfred will need one. I guess lie hasn’t
walked farther than the nearest drink since
you last saw him.”
Hayes knew well enough that Wilfred was
not at Malicolo. As the legion of the lazy
know, there are hard beaches and soft.
Malicolo was in travail over Hayes’s own
recent labor-recruiting expeditions. And the
reeis of Tanna were unwholesome places for
beachcombers of the Wilfred variety.
* * * *
The Leonora put in at Fanuti one morn-
ing when the surf was breaking over the
atolls with the sound of distant gunfire,
Takenamba ran Fanuti without the help of
a mission. The island had once thrived, and
schooner captains had carried away shell,
copra and oil in exchange for cheap cotton
fabrics and knick-knacks.
Apart from the knowledge that Wilfred
was Probably at Fanuti, Hayes was in-
terested in a man named Hansen, who owned
a wind-bleached trade-house near the lagoon
entrance.' Hansen owed him tliirty-oaa
pounds for stores. With the two-masted,
square-rigged Leonora riding easily under
tlie lee of Hie island. Hayes, with six boys at
tlie oars - P usbed through the narrow pas-
sage in the reef to the beach inside.
Leaving the boys in charge of the boat,
Hayes thrust through the noisy crowd of
natives to the big, palm-thatched abode of
Takenamba.
At once the buccaneer realised that he
was an unwelcome visitor. The dense pan-
danus scrub that walled Takenamba's hut
on three sides scowled at him with a hun-
dred eyes as he entered the clearing.
The chief was squatting on a ceremonial
mat, some thick twist tobacco and a bowl
of kava beside him. Ilis dignity was forti-
fied with a plug of ivory through his nose.
A pair of huge brass earrings hung to his
elephantine shoulders. The other parts of
him were decorated with streaks of lime and
wood ash.
“Where’s Hansen, Takenamba?” the buc-
caneer greeted without ado. “His store’s
gone. The jungle’s all over it!”
Takenamba did not raise his eyes from
the bowl of kava beside him. It was some
time before he spoke.
“Hansen no good,” he said at last. “One
time he think he own my motu and people.
One day he came here and made trouble
about a woman. So Hansen is not here
now.”
Takenamba heaved his great bulk from
the mat as though to rise, thought better of
it and settled back with a grunt beside the
half-empty bowl of kava.
H'ayes reflected swiftly as he walked to
the door of the big hut and peered inside.
The walls were hung with spears and a few
grisly reminders of bygone scrimmages
and feasts. In a far corner he espied a bat-
tered sun-helmet, an umbrella and an old
fowling-piece.
Examining the umbrella critically he
strode to where a heap of stones lay piled
about a fireplace at the rear of the hut.
Raking the cold ashes with a stick he came
upon a smoke-blackened skull. A bitter oath
escaped him as he returned to the dozing
mountain of flesh on the mat.
“Another papalagi bake, Takenamba!” he
accused fiercely. "Hansen this time, by the
holy I" He kicked the sun-helmet towards
the grunting headman.
Hayes seemed to stand over the guilty
Takenamba, his eyes dangerously bright.
“Didn’t I ask you not to touch men who
owed me money V Would you kill a pig that
was worth a hundred barrels of oil to you?”
The look of a beaten dog came over the
black hump of dozing flesh on the rapau.
“You said it mattered not what I did with
the papalagi who”
“/ owed money to!” Hayes bellowed.
“Can’t you understand the difference, Taken-
amba? The difference between eating a
man who owes me goods, and the man I
owe goods to?”
“No,” Takenamba rumbled. “Hansen
made plan with one schooner-feller Jorgens
to leave my motu. He owe me money, too.
So I” . Again Takenamba paused and
sighed, his fingers closing on the kava bowl.
“Socked him on the neck with a club and
threw him to the cook!” Hayes gritted.
“You old cannibal!”
While the old chief dozed on the mat,
Hayes regained his temper. Easy enough
to make trouble at Fanuti, he told himself.
It was time he learned to make something
else.
From the excited whispering of the
shadowy shapes, cruising in and out of the
dark pandanus, he suspected that Wilfred
Abigail was not far away.
He had not long to wait. The call of the
blood was in the air. From a limestone
path leading from the beach came a shy,
half-naked white man, a pair of tattered
dungarees clinging to his wobbling waist.
In the gummy, heat his face appeared lime-
white and insect bitten.
Hunkered on his heels before Hayes, he
breathed like a champion long-distance
drunkard after a fifty-yards spiu. Reaching
for the kava bowl beside the snoring Taken-
arnba, lie drained it in three gulps.
“Good stuff!” he breathed, replacing the
bowl on the mat. “As good as the sliypoo
and tanglefoot you buy at those brass
pumps in Sydney. Costs nothing, either.’’
Hayes considered him for a space, the
nerveless, leering fat of him, the bloated
neck and waist that belonged to the human
cockroach and the squid. Then, “You’re a
pretty packet for a white man to meet, Wil-
fred !” he said sternly. “About time you
pulled yourself together. Slaking your neck
with black-feller booze is going to make you
look like a rotten custard !”
Wilfred’s loose, limp, rubbery frame
squirmed at the implication. A touch of
red stained the lime-white face.
“Seen the time, Hayes, when you swiped
black rum and treacle to lift your head-
ache,” he retorted. “Don’t be too hard.
Tell us about Sydney. Seems like a hun-
dred years since I saw you last.”
“Sydney’s a man’s town,” Hayes retorted
briskly. “You’ve got to leave your flies
at home before you butt in there for a job.”
“.Tob!” Wilfred’s face became a twisted
agony at sound of the word. “Jobs, jobs,
jobs! Everybody bleats it at you. Before
I stopped growing dad hunted me into one.
Mother took in a paper that advertised ’em.
She used to read ’em out over the chops an’
sausages. ‘Here’s one that’ll suit Wilfred!’
she’d tell my brothers Luke and Tim.
‘Respectable youth required for milk round.
Good yodeller. Four a.m.’ ‘Respectable
youth wanted for bakery. Sponges and
dough. Five shillings a week and found.’
That’s what I got every morning,” Wilfred
almost sobbed, groping for the empty kava
bowl. “At eighteen I found myself carryin’
bricks up and down a ladder on a job in
Liverpool-street. Bricks, millions and mil-
lions of bricks, I rushed up and down to
please mother an’ dad!”
Takenamba woke and stared at the fran-
tically gesticulating outcast. Then his black
hand went out to the bowl and, finding it
empty, sighed. From the pandanus shade
stepped a woman. With no more sound
than a ghost she took up the bowl and dis-
appeared. In the fetch of a breath she had
returned with the huge wooden receptacle
filled to the brim.
Takenamba took it with a grunt, drank
and passed it to the watching Wilfred, while
Hayes turned aside with a shrug of disgust.
“You don’t know what a brick is, Taken-
amba,” the. outcast lamented, his gulping
mouth submerged in the bowl.
Takenamba shook his head. “They grow
like banana on Kitanee [Sydney] trees?” he
hazarded. “Big as cocdanut, eh?”
With a shaking thumb Wilfred outlined
a square in the sand. “That’s a brick,
Takenamba. Made of burnt clay. Hard as
H'ell: heavy as iron.”
“Ladder?” the headman murmured, dozing.
Wilfred drew a crooked ladder in the
sand. “Up and down a thing like that, Taken-
amba, with a hyaena named Bill Brennan
waiting at the top for more bricks. The
minute I stopped runnin’, to keep my heart
from jumpin’ out of my ribs, this Bill Bren-
nan would howl blood and murder from the
top of the building. Bricks, bricks, bricks!
And Sydney began to get fuller an’ fuller
of blokes like Bill Brennan. I’m damned
if I know where they came from,” Wilfred
almost howled. “Red-faced blokes with rags
round their necks; all of ’em the dead spit of
Brennan, tlirowin’ up ladders an’ tearin’
down all the nice old weatherboard cottages
from Circular Quay to the Glebe.”
Takenamba resumed his snoring. Hayes
squared his shoulders, bit a Manila clferoot
and blew the fragrant smoke into the gummy,
lieat-saturated air.
"I saw Clara the other day, Wilfred,” he
began easily. “She blew aboard the brig for
a yabber.”
Wilfred’s fingers had just closed on the
kava bowl. He looked up in sudden panic;
his grip on the bowl relaxed.
“Clara!” A crop of moisture showed on
his brow. “Gawd!”
“You wouldn’t know her, Wilfred. A fine,
good-living woman if ever there was one.
None of your flyabouts. Home’s the place
where you’ll find Clara!”
Wilfred had grown extra-limp. His hand
strayed to the bowl, hesitated, strayed again.
Then he swallowed a deep breath and sat
still.
The roar of breakers ran like an organ
note up and down the distant reefs. Beyond
them drifted the smoke of a dozen cooking
fires and huts, while the snores of Taken-
amba filled the clearing with the notes of
a coronation anthem.
It seemed a long time before Hayes
resumed.
“It brought a lump into my throat, Wil-
fred, the way Clara spoke of you. A kind,
forgiving woman, I should say. The kind
of wife lonely men dream about!”
Wilfred sat up to get a better view of
Hayes.
“What’s she doin’ for a livin’? Who’s
she bitin’ these days?”
“Biting nothing, Wilfred. She came
aboard the brig in her silks like a lady from
Government House. Rings as thick as
locusts on her little hand. Her father or
somebody has died and left her a dry bit.
No more wash tub for Clara. Has it changed
her? Not on your life! Just a quifet, lady-
like dame, ready to forgive and forget. But.
if I may say it, a trifle soft and sentimental
about her lost and erring Wilfred!”
Followed a short dreadful silence in which
the drink-inflamed eyes of the outcast seemed
to gouge and sift the buccaneer’s thoughts
and motives. He uttered no word, but
remained as one frozen beside the snoring
Takenamba.
Hayes finished the cheroot, stamped on the
butt and then stared sombrely at his big
silver watch.
“Are you coming back with me to Sydney,
Wilfred? I’m getting my anchor at day-
break !”
With the snarl of a tortured beast Wilfred
was on his feet, his clammy fists bunched,
his round body swaying defiantly.
“Am I going back to Clara? To that old
battle-axe? All you’ve said is a pack of lies,
cheap, dirty lies to kid me away from here!”
His wild gestures took in the heaving
breast of the Pacific, the flocks of sooty-
winged terns wheeling and crying over the
smoking reefs, took in the porcine Takenamba
on the rapau, the kava bowl and the sweat-
ing jungle of pandanus in the background.
Before Hayes could prevent him he had
scampered into the dark scrub, filling the
(Continued on page 57.)
THE “CHRISTMAS BULLETIN.”
The great “Christmas Bulletin” will be published on Saturday, Dec. 7.
It will be an extraordinary sixpenn’orth.
In addition to 24 complete stories chosen for their exceptional quality,
verses by the 30 best-known writers in Australia, and over 50 illustrations
by all the principal black-and-white artists including two full-page drawings
by Leason and Jardine and three caricatures by Low there will be a colored
supplement on art paper by B. E. Minns.
Mr. Minns, the greatest painter of the Australian aborigine, has been
engaged during the year on a set of four water-colors of the subject of
which he is the world’s undisputed master. These have been purchased by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., and the first of them, “A Northern Belle,” will
be reproduced with the “Christmas Bulletin.”
Notwithstanding the great expense incurred in the production of the
“Christmas Bulletin,” it will be sold at the usual price sixpence.
Orders are now being taken by newsagents throughout Australia and
Maoriland.


15ankin<i, Public Companies, etc,
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ••
Preference Shares .. .. • • S?
Long Term Mortgage Shares . .
Ordinary Shares ■ • . • • • •
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,04^,091
GRANTS DRAFTS Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS itJVXili’.
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET,
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ~£1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. . • • • 985,000
£2,235,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,485,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
** should read the Biutisii Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
d
ď
đ
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant. (Aust.).
July shows, further substantial increases.
The" notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N Z HUNTS ASSOCIATION
NZ GUN CEUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISLAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAL ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNEL CLUB
N.Z. GOLF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. POLO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of the World’s Leading
Advertising Agenales.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
von nrice for the original.
Shipping, etc,
Excursions to HAWAII
The Canadian-
Australasian Line
will shortly commence it s
Summer Excursion Runs, which,
by specially reduced rates, bring
within your reach an interesting
voyage on a large and modern
liner with a holiday to follow in
Hawaii,
This famous little Island of the
South Seas is a cosmopolitan
holiday centre, world-famous for
its endless Summer sunshine, the
matchless surf of Waikiki Beach,
its tropical scenic splendor and its
carefree languorous life.
Sail by the Aorangi or Niagara (via
Auckland and Suva) on either of these
dates: December 12, January 9,
February 6. Excursion Rates:
£75 First Saloon £55 Second
Union Steam Ship Co.,
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne
d
I jf 9^
Hi
n
m
m
9
S
■ SB'"
*
n\ !
1 »4\
m.
«**► • r3W '‘
H
BURNS-PHILP
TOURS
JAVA
(The Wonderland
of the East).
OLD BUDDHISTIC AND HINDUISTIC TEMPLES-
NATIVE BAZAARS. EXCELLENT BIG-GAME SHOOTING.
BEAUTIFUL TROPICAL SCENERY.
EXTENSIVE TEA GARDENS.
SCENERY.
INTERESTING
PEOPLE.
Regular
“MARELLA”
monthly sailings by the favorite vessels
(7500 tons) and “MALABAR” (5000 tons).
The Beautiful Solomons
Full of interest and > romance and
situated only seven days’ steaming n.-e.
of Sydney. The comfortable and
popular S.S. MATARAM sails from
Sydney on December 21, and February
5, visiting 30 picturesque Ports.
ROUND TRIP 4 £ WEEKS.
FARE £4l
Write for Pamphlet No. 52/S to
BURNS, PHILP AND
COMPANY, LTD.,
7 Bridge Street,
Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund. .
Reserve Liability
ď
£7,500,000
5,900,000
7,500,000
£20.900,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1928, £88,982,585.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
554 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4 S
RESERVE FUND ; 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL " - - 4,739,012 10 0
£13,678,025 0 0
Directors: . .
TTTDAH COHEN (Chairman) ;
Hon. JAMES ASHTON. M.L.C.; OWEN FRIEND; Major-General
the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D, M.L.C.,
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J- R- DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London BirchtaLane^LomtaM^
Agencies throughout Kew Zealand, and .11 other part, o,
ill Classes of General Banking Tnd Exchange Business Transacted
cAFT DEPOSIT VAULTS. —Inspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S S OHARA —Every Saturday evening ; passenger,
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S S WOM.ONGBAR— Every Tuesday evenug;
mssene°rs due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets
BRISBANE.
1 Reamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/1/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15'
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers* Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CIIAU!AS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., iSd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart ParkerLim
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
md vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
••’nr full particulars apply HODBART PARKER H WIITS )
C alius Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
Cnticnra
Talcum Powder
for the
Toilet and Nursery
It is cooling and it is soothing.
Pure and delicately medicated
Cuticura Talcum is ideal for
every member of the family. It
is antiseptic, absorbs perspir-
ation and leaves the skin re°
freshed.
meat Is.and 2s.
Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address:
,f ß.Towns & Co.,
Sydney, IN. S. W.”
UU
0*
Wfl ■
3
4 oz. can Is. 3d.
THE PATRIOT
|DIREC^EDjUM^WOMEN|
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
WITH
his purchase of space
in “The Telegraph”
the advertiser acquires
the permanent interest
of an organisation
containing experts on
every aspect of the
printing business.
AND-
both reader and pui v
chaser appreciate the
workmanship.
The Telegraph
Newspaper Co. Ltd.
Queen Street,
Brisbane.


'V
J '/)>
V
Q\i\*
an d cS*
ottioP t 0 s nte
( att P IOP 2k ate rhoose^
°o\ y% n Pe^Yot
tepo^^^rvice
toff in ei*«
W»'"S
d * SotM f e vetV d ° d^‘
black
co
,lont &
illy
to
SCLtO
pVeaso
oi t ‘pencil
acccp
.tance
m
dISW Tens
tvl eS
is
va 1
xietV
ot
to
ma
m
tek
ad«
S^an
in
CH** r
Colours
Jade
30/-
fctJMll
its
-svc^ s ’
to’
nwe* J'its »'**
‘Fyne-Poynt’
Pencil
320/1
15/-
"Fyne-Poj'nt” Pencils from 7/6
Self-Filling “Blackbird” Pens from 9/-
Of Stationers and Jewellers
Illustrated Catalogue post free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
Swan House, London, W.I.
Factories : London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depot:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
181. Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
G(A.)
mmms
dVOIIV
At dll nod Hotels
and tobacconists
Special box prices on request
Wholesale Distributors
CRAIG & AIT KEN
654 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY
shadowy recesses with wild oaths and
n arses
Hayes pondered awhile, then shook Taken-
aniba into an upright position on the mat
“Listen to me!” lie commanded. I told
you never to bake a man who owed m 3
ironey!”
“Enu!” Takenamba yawned and shrugged
his shoulders. “You speak,” he nodded. “I
am awake.”
“It’s this, Takenamba. Wilfred is just a
whale on your motu. He’ll swallow and
swallow whole lagoons of your kava. You’ll
never fill him up. Then he’ll die —like a
rotten fish.” . , , .
The old chief emitted a grunt, reached for
the kava.
Again the white sailor looked at his big
silver watch. “At white sky to-morrow I
sail, Takenamba. Suppose you celebrate
with a bake, about an hour before I go.
Wilfred is ripe!”
Takenamba stared almost shyly at Hayes
across the uplifted kava bowl, a tender glow
in his eyes.
“Ai-eb! Thou art a great man, Hayes!”
he mumbled in the vernacular. “Too long
Fly Face hath eaten my food and swallowed
my drink. He gives nothing in return.
He will not build a boat or a house for him-
self. Nor will he take one of our women
for wife.”
Takenamba stood up, huge, black and sud-
denly alert. There was a stir in the pan-
danus behind him, the stir of watching
shapes and eager feet. The old chief spoke
again.
“An hour before white sky, Hayes. Fly
Face is long ready for the bake. Ripe.
Another month of my kava would see him
sick. No good to me then. To fa, alii!”
Hayes returned to the Leonora.
An hour before dawn the mate of the
brig knocked warily at the buccaneer’s
cabin door. “They’re building a fire in the
village, Cap’n. You told me to watch out!”
There came sharp words from the sleep-
burdened Hayes. Already the sky was filled
with breaking day. The mate stood by the
lowered gangway as Hayes stepped into the
longboat, a Winchester rifle in liis hand.
For a moment he stared across the white-
capped reefs in the direction of the flickering
glow of burning wood. The mate had left
it late, too late perhaps.
The longboat entered the reef-passage. A
smell of the woods and rotting sea-kelp blew
over the dawn-whitened lagoons. Across the
spectral hummocks of coral and stunted
palms a few jungle fowl screamed at his
coming. Higher and higher leaped the flames
of Takenamba’s fire in the distance.
“Too late!” Hayes choked, leaping from
the boat to the beach. Then, “Stay here,
you boys,” he flung back to the armed rowers,
“until you hear me fooling with my gun! ”
He would never forgive himself if Taken-
amba, had taken him seriously. All that the
spineless Wilfred needed was the right kind
of a shock, with a last-minute reprieve.
Many a beach-rotted white had been brought
back to citizenship by judicious handling.
He entered the circle of the fireglow, where
the piled stones were radiating heat. Seated
alone on his rapau, Takenamba stared into
the leaping flames around the stones.
With no more sound than a man-killing
tiger would make, Hayes approached the fire
and looked under the white-hot stones, his
Winchester gripped close. Black rage swept
him.
“You didn’t lose a second getting Willy
to the oven, Takenamba!” he blazed out.
“You guzzling old cannibal —couldn’t you
have waited?”
Takenamba emitted a grunt of suppressed
anger. Then his dangerously shifting eyes
took in the fistful of bored steel the other
carried so easily. The cannibal glare in him
went out.
“Fly Face not there yet, Hayes!” he
rumbled. “Look again! There is only wood
and hot stones. I cannot eat hot stones!”
“Then where is he?”
“Run off in the dark. He get fright when
the big fire start. Same fire he know bake
Hansen. Two boys gone after him. Catch
him soon ;no feah. Plenty good bake bymby!” '
Hayes waited, listening to far-off cries.
Then there were sounds of running feet, a
soft babel of native voices within the dark
pandanus belts. The footsteps and the
voices came nearer.
“They’ve got him!” Hayes spoke in a
strained whisper.
I( Takenamba crumpled back on the mat.
“No got!” he groaned as the two trackers
emerged from the scrub alone.
There followed, a short silence as the two
man-hunters stood before the depressed and
silent Takenamba. The heavy boom on the
reefs died away like passing drums, then
returned with a roar. Takenamba glowered
at the two trackers before him.
“Where is Fly Face? Have you no feet
that such a one can outrun thee? I am
waiting!”
Their explanation was simple and direct.
It was true Fly Face had eluded them. His
suspicions had been aroused by their appear-
ance near the hut where he usually slept.
Prank or sober, Wilfred could smell the dif-
ference between an early-morning offering of
turtle’s eggs and a pair of executioners with
clubs.
Wilfred had slipped past them in the half-
light, and run like a frightened rabbit across
the atoll and reefs. He had escaped, as
™any a papalagi had escaped the stones. He
had gone over the reef into the jaws of the
tibawaka.
“The sharks!” Hayes broke in with an
oath.
Takenamba leaned from the mat as one
of the trackers answered. “Api! Tibnwnkn
waits long for the white offal who haunt
our reefs. Fly Face could swim, but tiba-
waka swam faster. His scream was heard in
the village when the jaws took him under.
The sea was red. And now he will not drink
our kava or eat again with the men of our
village.”
Hayes remained only a little while beside
the sulking Takenamba. There was a dan-
ger here, and Bully knew how to stage a
swift exit. Quickly he mentioned as gifts
a tierce of tobacco, a cask of rum, some
good axes and a roll or two of calico. Many
a seaman had been caught between an un-
slaked fire and his longboat. All for the
need of a little tact.
He - was ”l a( ! when the longboat reached
the brig. The mate, Emery, was below when
ap ' climbed aboard. There was no need to
tell him anything, The fool would be inclined
to lament Wilfred’s sudden end, might accuse
him of undue severity in the matter. Much
better to get their anchor while the tide was
running.
The sea was a mirror of blue and gold
when the Leonora stood away from the
island, on the home tack, with Emery at
the wheel. Of course, Emery had to know
why Wilfred wasn’t returning to 'Sydney,
otherwise he would bleat incessantly about
leaving a lonely white man among a crowd
of known cannibals.
“Blamed if I know how to break it to
Clara!” Hayes called up to Emery. “After
all, she’s a woman with sparks of feeling
left.”
Emery was silent as he spun the wheel
and shouted to the deckhand in the brig’s
waist. “Hard on the lee braces!” he roared.
“Stand by to break out!”
To Hayes the order seemed ill-timed and
unseamaplike, another proof of the mate’s
emotional nature. The liftiilg trade-wind
was bellying their canvas.
The buccaneer joined the mate on the nar-
row poop, watched the Leonora fill away to
her seven-knot stride. Then :
“We’ll tell Clara that Wilfred died like
a hero, Tom. Let’s both have the same yarn.
A native canoe capsized, throwing a crowd
of women and kids into the shark-infested
water. Wilfred went in after them, off the
reef, brought three kids and four women
back to the sorrowing villagers. In his last
effort to save a woman and her baby he
perished. The chiefs gave him a royal
funeral, and buried him on top of a mountain.
How’s that, Tom?”
“A real dazzler, Cap'll. It’ll please Clara,
and won’t make any difference to the shark
that's now suffering from the consequences
of its hasty meal,” Emery told him, with
sudden cheerfulness.
* * * *
A strong westerly was blowing across the
harbor when the Leonora beat up to her moor-
ing at Dawes Point. Hayes had barely time
to change to liis shore-going clothes when
a boat was seen approaching them from
Lanigan’s wharf. It was old Dick Corrigan’s
boat, and Dick was pulling hard to bring her
under the portside gangway. Seated opposite
Dick was a stiff, black-skirted figure, wear-
ing a black ostrich plume in her wide-leafed
hat.
Hayes spoke to one of the deckhands
standing near the anchor bits. “Send the
lady down to me when she comes aboard,”
he instructed. “Don’t let her wait.”
Descending to his stateroom he made play
with some papers on his desk, waiting with
a buckling brow as the boat reached the
brig’s gangway. A few minutes later the
stateroom door was pushed open.
Entered Clara Abigail, emitting a dry little
cough that reminded the buccaneer of a
stray hen clucking in a suspicious-looking
back yard.
Clara stood stiff as a grenadier, her
leather handbag held by its steel snap, her
eyes searching through and beyond him. No
outraged consul had ever boarded him so
resolutely.
“You’ve brought a dryish wind with you,
ma’am!” he said without rising. “I smell
your bush-fires!”
Her fingers closed on the snap of the bag
as though it were the trigger of a gun.
“Where is Wilfred?” she demanded. “Every
morning for the last month I have stood on
that wharf, waiting for a sign of your brig.
You have encountered storms?”
“In the Solomons, ma’am, the sea opened
and swallowed most of my agencies. There
isn’t a cocoanut left from Spreeto to Bill
Mullins’s place at Thursday. Yes, ma’am,
we had storms!”
“Did you bring Wilfred home?”
Hayes fumbled in the drawer of the desk
for a cigar. Fortified, he met her steely glance
with composure. “Ma’am,” he answered, “in
these happy reunions it’s my habit to help
the erring husb.and all I can. For several
years you’ve left Wilfred alone. The islands
don’t improve a man. And now you want
Wilfred in a hurry. Why?”
Clara’s trap-tight mouth relaxed. “One
of Wilfred’s two brothers has died, leaving
him his business. That is all, Captain Hayes.”
Her strong hands opened and shut. “I want
Wilfred! Is he on this brig?”
Hayes paused, listening intently. Then he
rose from the desk and stepped lightly to
the stateroom door. Half-way up the stairs
he met Emery with trouble written all over
him.
“Tom !” The mate whispered in Hayes’s
ear. The buccaneer’s voice was a snarl.
“Bring him out! So, after feeding and
nursing him like an old woman since we
left Fanuti, you thought you’d sneak him
ashore, eh? Away from her!”
“Aye, aye, Cap’n!” The mate grovelled
on the stairs, making frantic signs. “It’s
a load off my mind, Cap’ll, I—l couldn’t see
the poor devil drown when he swam towards
the brig. He was dead to the world when
I snapped him out of the water!”
Hayes returned smartly to the stateroom
desk, where Clara had counted fifty sov-
ereigns on to the blotting-pad. He pocketed
the money in grim silence. Then waited.
• There was a knock at the door. A gaunt,
hollow-eyed figure dressed in the mate’s cast-
off pants and boots stood before them.
Clara Abigail was guilty of a small bird-
like cry. That was all.
Living with the rats in the dark foreliold
had- blanched and drained him white. The
hunks of blubber had vanished, leaving sag-
ging knee-joints and a quivering underlip.
“One of your brothers has died, Wilfred!”
Hayes told him. “Left you his business!”
“One of ’em! Which?” The question
hung on the outcast’s lips. Luke had a
brickworks at St. Peter’s; a hell of red dust
and belching kilns. In the soft island
nights, under the Line, the memory of.it had
struck him like a nightmare. Gangs of
howling men and boys, a wooden, dust-red-
dened office within the inferno-like circle of
fired bricks. Thousands and thousands of
burning bricks! Had he been left that to
oversee?
Then he recalled Tim’s brewery in Aber-
crombie-street. Jovial, Falstaffian Tim in
his cool, spacious yards, where the huge,
kindly beer vats loomed like beneficent gods
in the dusk of a hot summer’s day. A place
for the weary and sick of heart!
Wilfred’s lips quivered again. “Lord!
Make it the brewery on the hill! There’s
only a few more years. Make it the
(Continued on next page.)


Cells a JJVory
Qiimia,
a\ i :;i
r, i
U'i! ;!
i.i
//AfA
' -\
:BS
!!|'l ! |»
I: ‘
-^atF 3
Ik M
Never neglect your kidneys!
Avoid that backache by taking Doan s Pills.
KIDNEYS spoil your joys, making
you feel old and wretched, and unfitting
you for either work or play. Why not prevent
such trouble? Middle-aged people, in particular,
should take an occasional course of Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pill§ as a precaution. This helps the
kidneys to rid the blood of impurities that cause
backache, rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, dropsi-
cal swellings and urinary disorders. In many
serious cases of kidney trouble Doan’s Pills have
proved highly successful.
TESTIMONY FROM SYDNEY.
A COMPLETE RECOVERY.
Mrs. A. Knight, 64 Angel Street, Newtown, Sydney, says : “My
husband was a great sufferer from backache for some time. He was
almost crippled with the ailment, and compelled to knock off work
for a good while, as every movement caused him increased suffering.
He tried remedy after remedy in the _ hope of a cure, but they all
failed to give him any relief, and his back ached on in spite of
treatment. Hearing of a cure effected by Doan's Backache Kidney
Pills, I induced my husband, after a lot of persuasion, to try these
pills. He is very glad that he took my advice, foi* they completely
cured him, and he has not had the slightest pain in his back since.
They are a grand remedy for backache, and should be taken by all
Who suffer from this trying complaint,”
Ten years later Mr. Knight says: “I have had no return of my
old complaint since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me over
ten years ago. 1 always keep this medicine in the. house and
take a few doses whenever 1 feel a little off color and it does me a
lot of good,”
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Foster-McClellan Co., Proprietors, 15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
DOAN'S
Backache Kidney’ Pills.
DOAN’S OINTMENT CURES PILES.
SYDNEY PEOPLE SAY SO.
Mrs. R. Wark, 61 Eveleigh Street,
Redfern, Sydney, says: “A member of
my family suffered terribly with pro-
truding piles. The pain was "so great
that he could not sleep at night and
would toss about for hours. He had
been suffering for three years, and we
were always having advice and using
different remedies, but nothing did
him any good until we got Doan’s Oint-
ment. This remedy proved excellent;
it gave complete ease. I cannot say
enough in praise of Doan’s Ointment
and recommend its use whenever
opportunity offers.'’
Many years later Mrs. AVark says:
“I am pleased to tell you that the
member of my family who was cured
of piles by Doan’s Ointment is still
free from this trying complaint. This
remedy is a certain cure for piles.”
Mr. A. H. Francis, 192 Union Street,
Erskineville, Sydney, says: “I used
Doan’s Ointment for itching and pro-
truding piles and I am pleased to tell
you it completely cured me. Previously
I had tried all kinds of ointments but
they gave me little or no relief. I was
suffering terribly when I first applied
Doan’s Ointment and had little hope
of it doing me any good, but its sooth-
ing and healing effect was noticeable
almost at once, and by the time I had
used one pot I was completely cured,
all sign of piles having disappeared
entirely. I am a great believer in
Doan’s Ointment and consider it the
best pile remedy known.”
Eight years later Mr. Francis says:
“I have not been troubled with piles
since Doan’s Ointment cured me.”
KEEP A TIN ALWAYS ON HAND.
IT’S A MIGHTY FINE REMEDY.
brewery, and not the hell of smoke and fire
and bricks!”
Ilayes leaned from the desk, his eyes
snapping over the ice-bound Clara. “Which
of the brothers left Wilfred his business,
ma’am? Tim or Luke?” _
Clara Abigail drew her long black skirts
together. Her lips froze. “The boat is at
the foot of the gangway, Wilfred. A cab is
waiting at the wharf.” That was all.
After they had gone Hayes called to the
mate in the passage outside. Go after em
in the dinghy. Tom! Find out where their
cab’s goinf. Hurry!”
It was a long tinie before the mate
returned. He entered the stateroom breath-
ing hard. .
“Well?” Hayes turned in his chair,
rpj ie mfAe was scratching his ear. “The
ca b was gone when I reached the wharf, sir.
g ut Bi ck) n ie waterman, said the address
tdven w Clara to the cab was Abercrcmbie-
gtl.eet m
{ chuckle escaped the buccaneer as
j A ached for his last cheroot and lit it.
f olinrate
“Tlie poor rat has found the right climate
at last!” he laughed.
Police-constable Nemesis.
JOHN GRATTAN'S
GRAPHIC LITTLE STORY OR A GREAT MISTAKE.
WITH a shriek of brakes the West-
bound Transcontinental shuddered
to a stop.
In the baggage car next the engine a
man’s figure detached itself from a heap of
rugs, crawled to the window, and, raising a
bearded face, peered through. There was no
moon. The dense blackness was relieved
only by the glimmering lanterns of the train
crew, which gave a ghostly appearance to
two tanks from which the engine was taking-
water.
The man crawled over the baggage again
to the opposite window.
Like two pinpoints of fire in the distance
the head-lamps of a motor-car were ap-
proaching.
Silently, but quickly, the man began mov-
ing the boxes and trunks away from the
door. The bolts moved in well-oiled sockets ;
a crack widened and the man squeezed
through. With a furtive glance in either
direction, he climbed down and flung him-
self full length in the low saltbush along-
side the line.
Would the train never move? The car
was getting very near.
At last! A whistle blew and the engine
snorted away into the night.
“In luck again !” Philip Gregson told him-
self. “Now let’s hope there aren’t two blokes
in the car.” He crawled to the lonely road
skirting the line, fingering the automatic in
his pocket.
Known to the police of all the cities of
the Commonwealth, Gregson was on the run
again. There was a bullet from his gun in
a policeman’s shoulder at Adelaide.
The car had slowed down, the better to
negotiate a bad patch, when the driver was
suddenly conscious of a dim figure along-
side him on the running-board, and felt a
cold ring pressed against his neck.
“Pull up! Leave the engine running and
get out. And no funny tricks.”
“Get off, then, so that I can open the
door.”
As Gregson stepped off the door flew open,
and two figures clung and struggled in the
dim light thrown back from the head-lamps
shining on the road.
This way and that they rolled, first one
on top and then the other, one fighting to
use the automatic and the other to gain
possession of it.
“Crack!”
There was a coughing sigh; then, for a
moment, silence.
Gregson got slowly to his feet, rubbing
one of his elbows ruefully. “I never expected
him to show fight—poor devil!” he said.
Shrugging his shoulders and stuffing the
automatic into his pocket, he climbed into
the car and turned it so that its head-lamps
lighted the plain.
“He seems to be about my build,” he said,
and an idea came to him.
Returning to the still figure, he carefully
divested it of its outer clothing, changing it
for his own—except the waistcoat, which
the blood had soaked.
To make the change complete he dragged
the dark tweed cap he had been wearing-
on to the dead man’s head, and pulled the
other’s felt hat on to his own. Then he
thrust his waistcoat into the pocket of the
coat it belonged to.
Walking fifty yards from the road, he
paced backward and forward in a zig-zag,
carefully examining the limestone surface
as he went. “I thought I would find one,”
he muttered.
Returning to the roadside he took hold of
his victim, and with no apparent effort flung
him over his shoulder and set out again
across the scrub.
The limestone surface was covered with
low saltbush, and in places were wide cre-
vasses, commonly called blowholes on account
of the noise made by the air rushing in and
out of them. Some of these holes were from
fifty to a hundred feet deep.
Fearful of stumbling into a small hole,
Gregson walked carefully with his burden,
and, after a short search in the uncertain
light, came again to the place he had dis-
covered previously.
He lowered his burden feet foremost; then
there was a tearing of cloth, a slithering,
scrambling sound, a thud underneath, and
the car driver had disappeared.
Gregsofi dusted his hands together. “Not
much chance of that being found,” he said,
and picked his way to the car. Climbing in,
he turned it and drove back over the road
it had come.
Mile after mile over seemingl.y endless
plain he drove before he brought the car to
a standstill. Turning off the head-lamps he
felt in the coat pocket, to which he had
hastily transferred his few possessions. Re-
moving the cover from the dash-lamp, and
making use of the rear-vision mirror, he pro-
ceeded to closely clip his beard and mous-
tache with a pair of nail scissors.
The dawn was breaking behind him when
he resumed his journey. “Getting near Kal-
goorlie,” he said, and laughed and rubbed
his chin. “I’ll be an early customer for the
first barber I can find.”
As Ivalgoorlie shopkeepers were opening
their doors, a dust-covered car drove down
Hannan-street and drew up outside a hair-
dresser’s.
A feeling of satisfaction and security filled
Phil Gregson as he presently ran his hand
over his cleanly-shaven face.
He walked out to the car with little heed
to two men standing by.
“Car and all, Jim,” one remarked to the
other. “Cool customer to come back again.”
The other read from a notebook in his
hand —“Medium height, grey suit and hat,
glean shaven”....
“What’s all this about?” Gregson asked,
amazed.
“We want you for bank robbery and mtir-
der at Kalgoorlie last evening,’’ the officer
said as he clicked the handcuffs.
The Etching.
A sea-coast, very delicate in line;
The sand dunes softly piled; the harsher
strokes
Show shaggy cliffs in sepia ; the tide
Is low ; a fishing-boat, sails roughly furl d,
Lies in the placid water. Whence lias flown
The harebell blue of overarching skie§,
The wonderful green wash of light and shad.;
On opal sea, the flash of gannet’s wing.
The ripe vermilions of the fishing craft,
The deep leaf-brown of nets? This art
Takes all the sun away. ’Tis like a plant
Reared in a cellar, pallid, with the shape
Of leaf and tendril, lacking all the green
That proves the growth alive! The price
you say
Is twenty guineas.
Give me half a crown
(Me with my sluggish brain, my clumsy
hand !)
And I will lead you to an open door
And show you one pure sweep of loveliness,
Blue as a woman's eyes and green as jade,
A yellow shore-line and a scarlet boat,
A sail as brown as coffee and as warm.
What should you spend your twenty guineas
for?
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
The Old Pod of Sydney
“Now who be you, my foreign man,
Who stand so still, and stare,
Where the streets are full of busy feet,
And the houses rise in air?
“Who be you, that you look so long,
Like a man in a manner lost,
With your skin so brown, and your eyes so
bright,
And your locks like the white, white
frost?”
He turned him round, that stranger man,
And he looked at him who spoke.
“I am one who wandered far,” said he,
“And my good ship was the oak.
“My good ship was the oak,” said he,
“But her sails went one by one,
Till never a shroud was left,” said he,
“And her masts were all undone.
“Her masts were all undone,” said he,
“And yet did the good ship stand,
And I steered her course by the Southern
Cross,
And I sought for my own dear land.
“O wanner and wanner grew the men,
The steersman died at the wheel,
The bos’n flung himself to the waves,
Where the waters spun like a reel.
“But I trimmed the ship, and I kept the
course,
Though the seas ran mountains high ;
Like a man in a dream I turned the spoke
As the days and the nights went by.
“And I sailed till I came to the narrow way,
And two Heads great and bold,
But the very planks were all I held,
And the hulk was naught but a hold.
“I have come to the place and the place is
strange !
And I ask you now,” said he,
“To tell me here, as I wander lost,
How my own land this can be.”
“Nay,” said the other, “but this is your
land!”
And he took him and showed him where
The city went down, by step and step,
To the sea as it were by a stair.
He took him and showed him the water
leap
Where the sea-wall binds the sea,
And. the iron ships of every strand
Lie in like sheep at the knee.
He showed him the tide-mark at the fort,
And the Pinchgut light that shows.
Like a star in the black heart of night,
When the storm in a tempest blows.
He measured the depth of the Plimsoll mark
Where the liners bask at ease.
And he pointed the house-flags flaunting out
By the great and the lesser quays.
“Nay then, nay then,” said the old man,
then,
“When Flinders sailed,” said he.
“Never a one of these things ye show
Could any man show to me.
“And my heart is asking for mine own land,
Is hungry for things I knew;
For the place where the waves ran up on
the sand,
And the green grass white with the dew ;
“For the dip where a little stream ran down,
And the wind was a scented breeze,
Where only the rocks stood bare and brown,
For the land was a land of trees!”
“Nay!” said the other, “but this is your
land,
And none ever fairer knew”....
But the old man asked for his ship of wood,
And the coast where the tall trees grew.
N.S.W.
MARY GILMORE.


J
WEST! N CHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGKQUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD..
Queensland Agents—HULMKis tv CHI/KC'li, lirisbune.
N.Z. Office —93-107 Featlierstnn Street, Wellington
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Victorian Olllce—‘‘Chancery House,” 485 Itoitrke Street, Melbourne. /
South Australian Agents: Messrs. EM)ISK, SMITH «: CO., LTD., Adelaide. S.A.
Queensland’s Largest
Home-Read Daily
Newspaper——
&/>e
u
99
Unequalled in circulation the “Brisbane Courier” gives to
advertisers the most effective coverage in City, Suburbs and
Country.
Tested campaigns have proved the “Courier” to yield 75 per
cent, of returns.
Carries more advertising than two other Brisbane dailies
combined,
FIRST IN CIRCULATION, COVERAGE, ADVERTISING
AND INFLUENCE.
Published by the Brisbane Newspaper Co., Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane
N.S.W. Rep.: Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85007.
“THE AGE”
Ext alii shed 185 If.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you wish to stimulate the interest of the
Victorian public in your products, digest these
facts:—
Over 123,000 persons purchase “The Age”
daily (60 per cent. Metropolitan area,
40 per cent. Country districts).
Over 96 per cent, of the copies purchased
are home delivered to subscribers.
Over 95 per cent, of the home deliveries
remain in the house for the womenfolk
during the day,
and
Over 1,000,000 advertisements are pub-
lished in its columns annually.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation
123,533.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
the JiMmiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISE!?” may be
obtained at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price lid.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
P. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G, N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Che mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
carries regularly a far greater total
volume of advertising than any other
newspaper published in Tasmania.
l T is thus, judged by the use made oj
its columns, the most popular
as well as the most powerful oj the
newspapers oj Tasmania.
pitOFIT by the experience oj the
leading national advertisers, and
place “The Mercury” first when
advertising is under consideration.
Average Net Circulation, 20,967.
IT is, undoubtedly, Tasmania’s ablest
and best conducted newspaper.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
F. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin’’ takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
9
5<
&
UTY
PIUS
COMES FROM
real health
e d ,»a »'S or0 “‘
To Y&gfit to®
&ee “ - „ is tk e C ° a art)'es sloT1 ’ Million*
. tbe
coosUpot'O do>V e '' be
“« eto^'* 0
aste P days y , .
te B“ Lyoei be ?'* b”i>"* e *
' Sreff>a?E^s
f ” r cSSvc-* es<l
<»ve
XMAS ISSUE
cy A
WOMAN'S MIRROR
sm
.
PACES
gff&i
■miw,
r&xSSiSSS.
m
D
: SS
568
s «
•?*3as9?
. .-j>-.fste -*. ! 3sga!lß
0>
d
o
0°
6
6>‘
1
s®
*\V
\V®^
A\
** s
••:*V?
#ss*
.*’ rftyir &
..*’ ..**’ o^' c6 o^«*
* .. * 4‘S^Vf
..<# >£*’


a
(9,
ms
-
n
9
1
r
r
f f(v
F
•^r
1
w
7
'MI
8*
V(
Up
t
\
&
*?
£
A
•n
g
/
Join i n toA*
4 CORKfi^
PULL UP tklfiy
am
REMOVE
tkeCcws-ok-
m
& 1-abpV
•draw the Cork
'vuAfu^^ L thumb
\UT E have borne with corkscrews for what
W seems an eternity—simply because, in the
case of Johnnie Walker, what lay behind the
cork was worth it!
But how we hated corkscrews, nevertheless.
To-day, we drink to their banishment, and
honour the Johnnie Walker cork stopper, with
the milled cap, that can be instantly drawn. It’s
a real cork, mind you, to give security to the
precious spirit in a Johnnie Walker bottle. One
twist of the finger and thumb, and there is
released for particular palates, the finest blend
of matured Scotch Whiskies that ever a cork
restrained.
JOHNNIE
WAfaK.BR
WHISKY
Born 1820-
Still going Strong
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, LONDON, and KILMARNOCK
