

riii
I Perth!! |
I
I
r * i
' Ht dMX
r~,,
§B,
*
FINE
mir
&
Sss
II?
-3£#~
AS EXCISsiVEiy sgPPLIEP TO m|gS r '
& wgstSnD Clubs
JohnDewaroSons L-
Distillers PERTH,(Scotland)* LONDON
PRODUCE OP SCOTLAND
,5n 1.f0 UNOER THE SUPERVISION OP THE COM mONWE*L t>4 CuST °
t!
1!
Make the
SPIRIT
of the past
your
PRESENT
this
Christmas
DEWARS
SCOTCH WHISKY SUPREME
The Bulletin
/tyltouUd hvwk, ,
Vol. 50.—N0. 2600.
Wednesday, December 11, 1929.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


for the Library Catalogue and
terms, and lists on all subjects, which
will be forwarded post free on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Handwriting
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
HOLBROOKS
r Tl :
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
Try This for
Rheumatic Pains
Nothing like Harrison’s Hills for rheumatism,
backache, groin pains, painful urination, depleted
vitality due to uric acid disorders, genito urinary and
bladder troubles. No matter how many things
have failed you, Harrison’s Hills will do you gpod,
for they remove the tame of the trouble. A hospital
nurse says: u You might be interested to know thdt
the success o) Harrison's Pills in treating Kidney
arul Bladder Troubles, Backache, etc., has been such
that 1 hate recommended this remedy to scores of
patients, and 1 can testify definitely to their unusual
efficacy and great value for use in these painful
troubles.” If you want to get. rid of your ageing
aches and pains quickly-—get a package of Harrison's
Hills from the nearest chemist, to-day. 2/- Trial
Size; $/- Standard Size, and of- Large Size. If
not delighted with results —money back !
Amalgamated Laboratories, Kembla Building, Sydney,
and all Chemists.
New Glossy Hair—No Dandruff!
Prolongs Youthful Smartness; Imparts
that Well-bred, Well-groomed Look!
Vi-Glo, the amazing new
scalp treatment, is the best
way to grow hair, banish
dandruff and overcome pre-
mature greyness ever devised.
Vi-Glo keeps the hair youth-
ful and healthy. If your
hair is. falling- out, splitting,
or is dull and lifeless-
restore it to perfect, condi-
tion by using Vi-Glo. Price
3/- at all Chemists, complete
with special free shampoo,
or by post, 3/4 from Vi-
Glorient Co., Kembla Build-
ing, Sydney.
ŵ
Puts Stomach Right
BUT NO HARMFUL ANTI-ACIDS.
Many who suffer after eating feel forced
to take something like soda bi-carbonate or
bismuthated magnesia to stop the excess acid.
They know this gives only temporary relief.
What they do not know is that such alkalies
usually leave a residue in the stomach to
retard digestion further. By taking anti-
acids the occasional stomach sufferer may
become a pronounced dyspeptic! The right
thing to do is to get some Para-Pepsin from
the chemist and take three tablets during
meals or when in pain. Para-Pepsin cor-
rects acidity and the cause of acidity; it
ensures proper digestion ; prevents distress
or stops it naturally if it has started. Para-
Pepsin forms no habit; leaves no bad effects;
is as good for a mild stomach ache as for
long-standing dyspepsia. It costs but a trifle
at the chemist’s; is pleasant to take; con-
venient ; breath-purifying, and absolutely
safe. Try it!
Amalgamated Laboratories, Kembla Building , Sydney,
and all Chemists.
ẁ
ẃ
CIDER
n
kitzs
f ■ <y^u*ihnq
WITH
his purchase of space
in “The Telegraph”
the advertiser acquires
the permanent interest
of an organisation
containing experts on
every aspect of the
printing business.
AND-
both reader and pur-
chaser appreciate the
workmanship.
The Telegraph
Newspaper Co. Ltd.
Queen Street,
Brisbane.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
...
■I
;
Mm
BRI
MADE
Perfection
PITSK RUBBER
Kitz’s Sparkling Cider
The finest drink with meals, as it
aids digestion and prevents acidity.
Dr. D. T. Fernie, of London, states: —
Cider is not only the most wholesome and
hygienic of all drinks, but is a preventive
against and a remedy for
Stone, Gravel, Gout, Obesity
and Fermentative Indigestion.
Agents in all States.
HEAD OFFICE: MELBOURNE.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
MUSTDIE
. MON POOUNOUJ POWOtR
THE6RHT INSECT MSrKMR.
( Hie*.
Mess,
ffciaa.
*uiloo k
S W
1-
*rr
MUSTDIE
POWDER must not be mistaken for insecti-
cide or common insect powders, some of
which are sold under fancy names, for
“MUSTDTE” contains an ingredient par-
ticularly fatal to that common house pest
aptly termed “The Typhoid Fly.”
“MUSTDIE” is sold everywhere by Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers,
or forward 1/- in stamps to Box 1520 G.P.0., Sydney. p
The Red Page
Australian Literature
Human wisdom comes always- to the
eternal controversy of six with half a dozen:
with a dubious decision for half a dozen, and
a permanent doubt in favor of six. “Om
Country, light or wrong!” is still an argu-
able example. In a national crisis’ reserving
the worth of every private judgment, the
duty of a citizen surrenders private judg-
ment. to public action. But “Our Litera-
ture, good or bad!” has no like warrant.
Who judges good or bad Literature? You
do: every one of you; and your judgment
stands unassailable for you, no matter what
pundits or prophets deny your judgment.
Preliminary respect is due to proven experi-
ence, established authority; yet another’s
experience is often misleading, and autho-
rity is sometimes a sham. Your world was
made when you were born; it will end
when you die. While you live it is your
job to make your own best of it; not some-
one else’s best you disagree with. The
more you think for yourself, the better you
will live for others. Literature is useful
because it, revives Life; because it enforces
Life; because it, purges and beautifies and
glorifies Life. If Literature cannot do that
for you individually, fake another way of
salvation.
Professional men of letters sometimes
make of' the word “Literature” a fetich,
like “that blessed word Mesopotamia.”
University voices, well meaning, urge us to
Australian books,” without reference
to the comparative' merit of Australian
boqks. But there is a desert also in the
fertile territory of Australian Literature;
some Australian books are not worth buying.
Some University voices must be heard with
a watchful skepticism—for several reasons.
'Orth: Britain—with zealous or audacious
exceptions—exports her inferior men, and
keeps her superior men at home. To 'go to
the distant suburb of Cosmopolis called
Australia seems to a‘Briton like going to
Fiji; and yon know you are too good to go
to Fiji permanently. Two; Words are good
servants but bad masters; and pedantic
habits may lead feeble minds to prefer
verbal husks to spiritual kernels. Three:
Academic affiliations appear occasionally—-
like other affiliations—to play literary favor-
ites.
In the advice to buy unspecified Aus-
tralian books comes the inevitable commer-
cial admixture. The publishers are our
friendly enemies, thoughtfully licking the
financial wounds Australian Literature has
gifen them, and endeavoring in booksellers’
authors’ weeks to apply a salve to the
remainders of their scars. They do us good;
but, in order to do themselves better
(which is their reason for publishing), they
are apt to prefer commercial values to
literary values. The preference is good for
trade and bad for literature, because all
praise given to not-good filches from the
scanty store of good’s credit ; and because
a mind encouraged to the wrong path may
never grow to find the right path. To
ignorance everything printed may appear
an oracle. Traders in bacon and eggs are
plainly seen trading; they have no historical
appeal to the virtue of the hog, no senti-
mental cry for sympathy with the, hen; they
stand or fall by the worth of goods at
prices. Traders in books can regularly con-
fuse the issue of merit here now with a
specious argument to the lofty deeds of our
literary ancestors. They can sell dead
men’s bones at a bigger profit; or seek
trading sales regardless of living literature.
Business is business; a compromise be-
tween truth and commerce is unescapable.
And what is truth? Each declares it for
himself; and Literature, in 50 years, de-
cides. Yet there is a body of literary law,
a line of literary precedents, helping the
Present to restrain the encroaching ceme-
teries of the Past and to range itself with
the banners of the Future. The sum of
individual judgments can erect a standard.
Hence the value of critics—neither advo-
cates nor complainants; but judges in the
real meaning of their word—to analyse, to
weigh, to argue before the public jury of
Everybody, who knows always more than
Anybody.
The schoolmen and the tradesmen of
Australian Literature demand from us con-
tinually the vigilance that is the price of
safety, So do the literary societies—too
much inclined to worship heroes of the
Past; too little inclined intelligently to
give the Present that help which is the
sole human yalue of the Past, We have
several literary societies regularly meditat-
ing among tombs, and doing little directly
to grind live men’s axes to clear the over-
growth of ignorance.. The societies spread
a vague light of Literature, They make a
friendly noise of welcome; yet ardent life is
dying while they bring their sacrifices to
the dead. That compromise also is inevit-
able; but one active plough is worth many
perfunctory prayers; one gallant literary
baby outweighs many pilgrimages to the
monument of grandpa. Let the literary
societies come down with the monetary
dust. A silver-coin admission fee at every
meeting would enable every Australian
literary society in a measurable term of
years to publish one new Australian book
approved by the members to make the
simmering pot of devotion boil over.
Bother the baek-look lingering unless it
sharpens the front-look questing! Youth
should be served by the literature it serves.
Life should devour the death waiting to
devour it. Many good or good-enough Aus-
tralian books await a useful publication
that cannot be undertaken without initial
money loss; and, in some fields, the better
the books the worse their first commercial
chance.
The old men gloom and mumble:
The darkness follows the day;
But why should the ghost of midnight
Drive sunlight away ?
Up, and fight for the living!
Lad, with your eyes so bright:
The worm is mistress of darkness,
But we are masters of light.
Where is the dust of Caesar
Let Seneca’s ashes say:
An ageless multitude marches
Along the Appian way.
He may hang on a gibbet:
She may choke in the slime:
Life, with a glory of banners,
Follows its course sublime.
A.G. STEPHENS.
Mrs. Eddy
The nineteenth century was prolific in
remarkable women. It produced Annie
Besartt, the roots of whose amazing person-
ality have yet to be discovered; and it also
produced Mary Ann Morse Baker Patter-
son Eddy, of whom this first: full and un-
biased life has now been issued. Mrs. Eddy;
the Biography of a Virginal Mind, by
Edwin Franden Dakin (Scribner’s; Robert-
son and Mullehs), is an outstanding work,
well balanced, dramatic, as a biography
should be, and scientific without being un-
sympathetic.
Mrs. Eddy was born in 1821, at Bow,
New Hampshire, U.S.A., and if she had
died at 40 posterity would never have
heard of her. She lived to her 89th year
and left, an indelible mark on history. Her
contribution was not original, though that
did not matter. She borrowed—and later
destroyed the lOU from Dr. Quimbv, an
obscure New England philosopher and a
psychologist born considerably before his
time. Quimby was abstractly interested in
science; Mrs. Eddy was deeply interested
in herself. Quimby had placidly adjusted
himself to actuality; Mrs. Eddy’s life was
a long struggle against reality. In the pro-
cess she manufactured an amazing empire
of her own, peopled it with fanatically loyal
subjects and then left it without a successor.
Quimby’s achievement was the valuable and
lasting discovery of the immense power of
mind over matter.
Mrs. Eddy arrived at the right moment.
Science was beginning to be respected. She
arranged a marriage between it and religion
and called the result Christian Science. Her
religion was not unassailable logically, but
that, made no difference to its triumph-
ant progress. She utterly denied the exist-
ence of objective reality. Nevertheless, she
retained her love of jewellery and hand-
some dresses, made a vast fortune out of
teaching her philosophy to others, and in-
vested her money in Government, bonds
which few will deny have a concrete and
separate existence. At the height of her
fame she did an amazing thing, but it was
a manoeuvre which guaranteed her earthly
deification. She built an immense palace
and retired from direct participation in the
management of her church. Even the
woman who went for a daily ride in her
carriage was not Mrs. Eddy but a sub-
stitute. From behind her palace walls she
sent out her orders and her worshipping
followers bowed before them. The highest
officials lived under the threat of excom-
munication. Even her own doctrines were
not immune from the imperious lady when
she changed her mind, as she did often.
When it suited her turn she graciously
accepted the role of a god on earth and
she expelled her most influential follower
for proclaiming the deification. At one
time she announced that, granted complete
spirituality, women were capable of par-
thogenesis, but when one of her followers
accepted the doctrine literally and had an
immaculate conception, she was incontin-
ently flung into the outer darkness.
This is the day of the newspaper. No-
thing can be floated on the world market
without the assistance of the press—not
even a human goddess. It was the press
which floated Mrs. Eddy. She used every
avenue of publicity. But it was also the
press that broke her. This supreme tragedy
of her career is superbly told by jMr.
Dakin. Her church had unquestionably
accepted the , picture of a divine or semi-
divine creature completely emancipated
from the flesh and communing with the
Most High in a. state of earthly beatitude.
Then the New York World launched its
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“Truth in advertising” has built up strong public confidence.
aKil
T-ri
They Travel Smartest who travel with
“HARTMANN”TRUNKS
Anthony Horderns'
*
(The Senior Store)
Landed a Big Shipment of these Trunks fust in
time to escape the New Tariff!
ms!
mi
m
:
mmm
mmsMM
’■ :t‘
i mmlMlmlmm
: : : :'r’ii r •: ''v'^
IM—
HUBS
m
efe
So of course the place to buy these famous trunks is at The Senior Store. And buy them
NOW while the line of Hartmann Wardrobe, Cabin Trunks and Tourobes is still complete.
The shipment we have just received, the largest number of Hartmann trunks ever to be
landed in Australia, includes all the new models. Hartmann trunks are distinguished, aristo-
cratic, the trunks that the widely travelled invariably select.
Our Travel Goods Department is conveniently located on the Ground Floor, George Street,
and our salesmen will be pleased to demonstrate the many beauties and advantages of the
new models.
Cabin Trunk, £7/10/-
This fine cabin trunk is very strongly
constructed, and covered with black
vulcanised fibre, Yale snap lock, two
drawer bolts. It is tastefully lined
and fitted with lift-out tray. Size,
36in. x 22in. x 1 3in. Price, £7/10/-
In still better quality. Price, £9/15/-
w
Wonderful New “Tourobe,” £7/15/-
This is the latest thing in wardrobe luggage light and small enough
to be carried by hand. There is ample room for suits or frocks, etc.,
on one side and other apparel on the other. Size, 32in.
Prices £7/15/-, £9/10/-, £lO/10/-
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Christmas Attractions
1. “Santaland.” A veritable wonder-world for children; a
glorious forest slide, enchanted woods, polar bears, pen-
guins, wolves, Santa Claus’ workshop with the real Santa
Claus that Anthony Horderns’ brought from Iceland in a
flying boat, in charge; the Good Book containing good
children’s names, and scores of other interesting features.
2. “Santaland Competition,” open to every child of any age.
Visit “Santaland” on Anthony Horderns’ fourth floor. See
all the wonders and then go home and write your impres-
sions in not more than 200 words and on one side of the
paper only. Title your essay, “My Impressions of Santa-
land.’’. Seal your essay in an envelope and address it to
Santa Claus, Anthony Hordern and Sons, Ltd., Sydney.
Mark in one corner, “Santaland Competition.” Every child
has an equal chance. Age will be considered in judging the
essays. Anthony Horderns’ decision in this competition
is to be absolutely final. Prize is a three days tour of
Jenolan Caves free for winner and one parent.
3. “The Magic Toy.” A delightful fairy tale acted entirely
by children. It is in eight beautiful scenes, and is brimming
over with merry tunes and picturesque dances. The plot is
one that will fascinate the children.
These attractions are on Anthony Horderns’ fourth floor.
*
bl-
i
H
S
! ■
m
u
m
mm
:: -
Si
“Hartmann” Wardrobe Trunk, £l3/13/-
This splendid wardrobe trunk is of three-ply, veneer construction,
covered black vulcanised fibre, smooth surface, special brass-
plated ittings, interlocking top balance, which makes trunk
virtually dustproof. Lined with blue, washable Hartex
garment section and shoe-box lined with blue cloth. Yale lock.
This trunk is made in three sizes.
Sizes 40 x 22 xl5 in. 40 x 22 xl9 in. 40 x22x 22 in.
Prices £l3/13/- £l4/10/- £l5
USE OUR “D.P.S.”
Buy whatever goods
you like, leave a small
deposit, complete pay-
ments as convenient,
and when goods are
paid for they will be
delivered in the usual
way. You pay cash
price only—no interest.
Anthony Horderns'
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
LOCATION:
Hartn ann Trunks will
be found in the Travel
Goods department, con-
veniently located on
the ground floor. Free
delivery city and
suburbs only.


■
PI
YOU
11
PAY MO
WO 111
i
m i
mm
mm
I
runs • ■nmis
Made in Australia,
than fbranyollier make
Remember this when you buy a
tyre. Remember, that in both
tread and tyre body. . . .the two
main parts of a tyre. . . .the
superiority of Goodyear Tyres
can be demonstrated, and is proved
by the fact that more people, the
world over, ride on Goodyear
Tyres than on any other make.
And remember, always, that
Goodyear Tyres and Tubes, made
in Australia, cost no more than
any other make.
ASK YOUR GOODYEAR DIAIIR lOR A DEMONSTRATION ON HIS SUPERTWIST CORD MACHINE


IP
1
fCttai:
“Right away”
for happy
i days!
Watch her move out of the station like a
real express.... Smoothly she glides
along, rapidly picking up speed. .. .
Faster and faster. . . . Now she IS trav-
elling.
A Hornby miniature railway is exact in
every detail, and enables a boy to dupli-
cate almost every operation employed in
modern railway practice.
Hornby Locomotives—clockwork and
electric—are splendidly built with strong
and reliable mechanisms. They are all
thoroughly tested before leaving the fac-
tory, and each Locomotive carries a guar-
antee. Hornby Rolling Stock includes
every type in use on the big railways, and
there is also a complete range of acces-
sories to add further realism.
HORNBY
TRAINS
Wholesale Agents in Australia :
E.G.PAGE & CO. (Dept. U),
52 Clarence Street, Sydney.
MANUFACTURED BY MECCANO, LTD.,
LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND.
GET THE 1930 HORNBY
BOOK OF TRAINS—
BIGGEST AND BEST EVER
ISSUED.
The new Hornby Book of Trains
is now ready, and tells how a
locomotive is driven —how the
driver and fireman carry out their
duties —how the permanent way is
kept in repair—how mail trains
work by day and night—how four
British Expresses have achieved
world-wide fame and all about
the splendid range of Hornby
Trains and Accessories.
Get a copy from any Hornby
Train dealer, price 6d., or we will
send, a copy, post free, to every
boy who sends six penny stamps
and the names and addresses of
three chums.
HORNBY TRAINS FROM
9/6 to 140/-
li. G. PAGE & CO.
( Dept. U),
Box 1832 K, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me the 1930
Homhy Book of Trains.
I enclose (id. and names and
addresses of three chums.
famous suit against her on behalf of her
relatives. It was discovered that Mrs
Eddy was nothing so uninteresting as a
mud and stucco deity but a very human
and supremely pathetic woman, who,
despite her denial of the reality of the
flesh, took morphine regularly for gall-
stones. _ . . .
But the significant thing is that tier
system worked. It got results just as
surely as the pointing-bone of the Aus-
tralian aboriginal. It enabled a not very
accomplished and horribly pain-wracked
woman to fight her way to an earthly
throne and found a world church which has
no parellel in history. But although she
may have given mental peace to some of
her followers she never knew what it meant
herself. She never had any.
M.G.S.
Unconscious Australianism
There’s a lot of food for thought in that
remark of Cecil Mann’s (R.P. 20/11/’29)
that the Australian writer must be “un-
consciously Australian.” What it boils
down to, I suppose, is that, as sincerity
is the cardinal virtue in letters, the Aus-
tralian should be himself, in which case his
Australianism will shine forth with a clear
lustre. But it isn’t as simple as it sounds.
Most people leam to write by reading what
others have written. Australians, being by
accident of birth members of the Anglo-
Saxon tribe, have the literary harvest of
500 years of England to browse upon,
and how many years of Australia?
And what sort of a harvest was
the local crop, and how much of it
was grown from native seed? Nationalism
in literary style has to be evolved, and
the evolution follows well-defined courses.
Take the case of America. The greatest,
names, perhaps because Time is a parent of
respectability, are Emerson, Longfellow,
Hawthorne and Holmes, in whose writings
American nationalism, as manifested in
characteristic idiom, is difficult to discover.
Hawthorne has it to a slight degree, but
as G. B. Shaw caught the atmosphere of
the revolution quite as authentically in
“The Devil’s Disciple” as Hawthorne ever
did, it can’t be reckoned as a very full-
bodied flavor. The national tang filters in
gradually as time goes on; with slight fore-
shadowings in Poe, steeped to the eyes as
he was in European classics, and attaining
a stronger brew in the less bookish Bret
Harte, Mark Twain, Whitman and Artemus
Ward. In the later crop of authors—
Frank Norris, Irving Bacheller, Winston
Churchill, Jack London, O. Henry, George
Ade, Sinclair Lewis and Theodore Drieser—
it is more sophistically unconscious, but
the rule remains, though it may seem
snobbish to enunciate it: the less the cul-
ture the stronger the tang.
In Australia, with a very much shorter
period for the incubation of a nationalistic
style, the same law has prevailed. The
defects in Lawson’s education enabled him
to be Australian to an extent
impossible to Kendall or A. L. Gordon. We
are already advancing upon the second stage
in which is achieved the Australianism
that isn’t unconscious or ignorant of the
rest of the world, but more strongly con-
scious of Australia. The way has been
paved, as it was paved in America by
Artemus Ward, Bill Nye and Josh Billings,
by writers such as C. J. Dennis, Dyson and
Steele Rudd who deliberately exploit and
relish the native vernacular. We are even
getting a historical background of our own
and a pride in what we now see were past
glories, as exemplified in Jack Abbott’s racy
stories and the beautifully woven texture of
“A House Is Built.” But—and this is a
But that cannot be escaped—our back-
ground recedes further into the distance
than Captain Cook’s picnic at Botany Bay.
Shakspeare and Milton and all the glorious
company of the Lords of English are part
of our heritage, and we cannot cut the
entail. So for many a long year such un-
conscious Australianism as falls from Aus-
tralian pens will have wrapped up in it a
little of the wistfulness of exile and fugitive
ghosts of Devon lanes and the fog-pall
that canopies London. When fifty genera-
tions fight with five, the newcomers, despite
their lusty youth, are apt to find them-
selves a little overweighted.
ARTHUR D. WYLIE.
The Dirty Habit of Bathing
John Dailey’s laudation of the American
as a super-bather (B. 13/11/’29) is doubtless
true of to-day, but it wasn’t always so.
The first bath, as opposed to the tub, was
introduced to America in the 1840’s by a
wealthy Yankee traveller who had seen
the innovation in England. He installed
one in his house, and the wrath of the entire
American press fell on him. “An epicurean
and obnoxious toy imported from England
and designed to corrupt the democratic
simplicity of the Republic” was one descrip-
tion. Doctors issued warnings that baths
caused rheumatic fevers and numerous other
ailments, and in Philadelphia the City
Council attempted to prohibit the danger-
ous practice. Then President Fillmore had
a bath put in at White House, as another
Cato remarked, “to the great scandal of
democracy and the medical profession.”
That was the last phase of the campaign
against “this monarchical luxury.”
As for the bath in England, Mr. Dailey
doth protest too much. As a lad in Eng-
land in the 1880’s and early ’nineties I lived
m at least 20 fairly modern houses cf those
days in different parts, and every one had
at least one bathroom with hot and cold
water laid on. In country houses of the
type of the Yorkshire rectory, Thormanby,
every bedroom had its tin bath, for which
hot or cold water was brought up as desired
every morning. I admit as an Australian
that the Englishman is apt to overstress
his bathing habits, but then he is the same
in regard to all the other virtues he claims
as his own. As an Australian again, I
am fain to admit that he is not the only
one in the world given to that rather ex-
disable vanity.
THORMANBY.
Books Worth Reading
This list has been selected bj r a com-
mittee nominated by the Associated Book-
sellers of Australia and Maoriland. It is
printed as a guide to books of merit:—
General Literature. —In Search of Scot-
land. by 11. V. Morton ; Henry the Eighth, by
Francis Hackett; Australian Discovery, by
Professor Scott; I Discover Greece, by H. A.
Frank; An Anthology of World Poetry, by
M. van Doren; The High Road of Aus-
tralian Verse, by J. J. Stable; Tales Out of
School, by Helen Sinclair.
Novels of Literary Merit. —The Power of
the Dog, by Donn Byrne; First Quarter, by
S. I*. Mais; Plain Sailing, by “A Gentleman
with a Duster”; The Poet and the Lunatics,
by G. K. Chesterton.
Novels for Popular Reading. —By Soocliow
Waters, by Louise J. Miln; Jim the Con-
queror, by Peter B. Kyne; Plain Sailing,
by “A Gentleman with a Duster”; The
Power of the Dog, by Donn Byrne; Another
Day, by Jeffery Farnol: Spring, by Sophia
Clough; The Uncertain Trumpet, by A. S. M.
Hutchinson; The Altar of Honor, by Ethel
M. Dell; Himself and Mr. Raikes, by W. B.
Maxwell; Beauvallet, by Georgette Heyer.
A Satchel of Books
G. A. Studdert Kennedy, by his Mends
(Ilodder and Stoughton; Angus and Robert-
son). In six chapters, with a preface and
epilogue, brother churchmen pay merited
tribute to the fine war chaplain who en-
dured the sobriquet of “Woodbine Willie.”
I’ctruclvio, by G. P>. Stern (Chapman and
Hall), is marred by an incredibility—a
moneyed and sophisticated young man, with
an expensive English education behind him,
settles down to the life of an Italian peasant.
There is a reason, of course, but it does not
convince. As against this, the character-
drawing is sure and the humor delightful
(Modesta and her relations are gems), and
there are some lovely pictures of Italy.
Three Score and Ten, by Alec Waugh
(Chapman and Hall). The author here
makes a daring experiment, and brings it
off. Into a novel of less than the usual
length he has packed the story of Hilary
Cardew from the time he goes to a public
school in 1881, and on through his marriage
and social and professional career to middle
age; of his son Godfrey (who serves in the
war, turns pacifist, has love affairs, marries
and has a son), and of Hilary’s father and
brother. Each character stands out as - a
clearly recognisable human being. All mis-
understand one another, and there are times
when their love is shot with anger, scorn,
even hatred, but they shake down into a
disillusioned compromise at last, as usually
happens in life. A soundly-written work by
a young man whose eye becomes more pene-
trating with every book he turns out.
Nature Has JSJo Tune, by Sylvia Norman
(Hogarth Press). The author is a new
satirist with a technique so subtle that it
threatens to defeat its own object. The
characters (middle-class English boarders at
the Castello di Sparli in the Tuscan hills)
form a cult based on a poignant legend about
the castle’s great Tower of Grief. In _ a
moment of extreme stress the landlady admits
that the legend is baseless. Mrs. Partridge,
the masterful high priestess of the movement,
is distracted.
“But this is impossible,” she bellowed. “My whole
life and Movement! Will you dare to tell me
there has been no Death, no Immolation, no act of
Sacrifice and Atonement from this Tower? I know
otherwise! My own visions, my perception even,
tell me that there has. How daft you contradict
the voice of God?”
Like most satires this irreverent variant on
“When It Was Dark” drags in places, but
it is full of stylo, humor and an elfin sense
of beauty.
Children’s Books.,- —Blackies, in their annual
bean-feast for the small fry, keep up-to-date.
This year’s lot includes aeroplanes, wireless,
racing-cars and the general atmosphere
which represents the modern youngster’s
translation of “Jack and the Beanstalk.”
Some choice gifts are “Wireless” (how it
happened and how to do it) ; “The Latimer
Scholarship,” by Olivia Fowell (girls) ; “The
Road to Mandalay,” by Major J. T. Gorman
(adventure) ; “Joseph, Samson and David,”
“Stories of St. Paul” and “Stories of Moses” ;
“The Forget-me-not Book of Nursery
Rhymes,” “The Railway Painting Book,”
“Blaekie’s Little One’s Annual,” “The
Animals’ Academy,” “Tom the Piper’s Son,”
“Blackie’s Children’s Annual” and “An
Animal Alphabet” (wee folk) ; “Fables
From .Esop”; “Captain Starlight,” by
Percy Westerman (a fine boys’ book) ; “The
Girls of Cliiltern Towers” (school girls) ;
“Electricity as a Wizard” (how it works
in relation to wireless and so on) ; “With
the British Legion,” by G. A. Henty (excit-
ing adventure) ; “A Waiting Game,” by
Jeffrey Havilton (schoolboys) ; “The Last
Voyage of Jane Ann.” by William Rainey
(on the high seas) ; “The Unknown Island,”
bv Bessie Marchant (girls) ; “The Guide
Adventures,” by Margaret Middleton (girl
guides). And then there’s been no mention
of “The Ingoldsby Legends,” which, at
eighteenpence, makes it worth while rifling
the money-box to keep dad quiet for an hour
or so. Ward Lock (copies from Dymoeks)
publish “The Happy Traveller,” by Mary
Grant Bruce; “Lady Billie,” by Lilian
Turner: and “The Runaway Princess,” by
Isabel M. Peacocke. Others include “Story
Time.” by Sonia Hardy (Angus and Robert-
son), a neatly-produced and well-illustrated
book of little-folk verse; “Magic for Mari-
gold.” by L. M. Montgomery (Cornstalk) :
and “Adventures with Mermaids,” by Cath-
arine M. Davies (Wood).
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) unit be taken of communications insufficient ‘
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contnbut
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Tiobbo : A purely local matter must crowd
into much less space... .Lockibus: You lost our
faith towards the end; till then it was very skilful.
....J.G.C.: Just fails sometimes to make us believe
it’s true. .. .Tahune: Noticed and corrected long ago
-—a hundred fell upon it in the first week.-..
O. :It doesn’t matter to a N.S.W. employer whether
his employees are married or unmarried—he is
charged equally for both under the Child Endow-
ment law. F.W.8.: Thanks, but can’t get excited
about Mrs. Hemans.... El.: MSS. returning together
merely a coincidence. Why not paragraph your good
out-back stuff for “Abo.” or elsewhere?. .. .W.T.M.:
Envelope used. .. . Aragun: It was in its place where
you saw it... .M.A.F.: Can’t rejoice over either....
P. : You don’t make much of “The Teams”...,
W.C.: Continue to miss. .. .D.E.J.: Should place it
elsewhere. .. .Noman: No bid. . . .T.W.: With im-
provements it might do for this column. .. .M.McI.:
An old tale not well t01d.... Doublin': Might be
interesting if you work it out. on the figures, when
available... .J.D.W.: Something like that already
exists. What he sought was a bibliography in book
form. .. . F.M.8.: “The Goal” was kicked.... T.J.H.:
Remember them well. They were dumped....
8.8.0’C.: Can’t float a cheque on the Opihi....
Judas: Try the War Cut. .. .C.Ii.E.G.: Over-
powered by suggestion of town mothers waiting to
pull the sliprails down to let in their wandering
offspring on Christmas Eve. ... J.S.G.: “Insane sighs,
mad musings and crude curses by a synthetic imbecile
and licensed lunatic,” as you ambitiously describe
it. .. .8.A.M.: Unrhymed refrain hits the ear like
a nip for a fiver.. . .Pom.: If it affects you that way,
you ought to keep clear of the races.... A.G.: Age
considered, there is merit, though the rhyming is
poor. Read and study the best.... D.C.: You’ll find
it hard getting a newspaper job on ability to write
verse. . . .J.G.C.: Was reviewed months ago... .T.
Whare: No space left....J.V. (or D.) : Too much
of the published sort to deal with, let alone the
great unpublished A.T.: Home thoughts from
abroad: —
There are roses by the pathway,
Fireflies are in the air,
Sweet fragrance from far Carthway
Is wafted to my lair.
Rut I miss my dear old mother,
Who is far across the foam,
And I must catch that good old lugger
That will take me right back home.
A.G.N.: You’ll need to do better or that boot
might be swung. .. .T.E.O’D.: “The Fairy Cobbler’
lias rather heavy feet... .Brigalow Bill: Would need
too much lopping. .. .11.K.M.: To the flames....
J.8.C.: “Faith” might have been called “Wraith.”
... .R.W.1).: Not tempted to take a twig out of
“The Forest”.... Farmer’s Wife: One of these days
you’ll surprise yourself by writing something worth
while S.M.: Most noticeable thing about your
reed is that it’s very thin. . . .B.B.: No room for
little conceits T.X.: Slight as the shadow of a
professional starver’s ghost... .R.K.P.: Existence
fails. .. .Blue Metal: The verse is a steam-roller.
. ...K.E.S.: “Of such glad fragrance that my heart
rebounds.” Would advise you to give up tennis.
.. . . M.E.C.: Don’t fancy them, and want only
original stuff.... ALF.: Alore frailty.... At. At.:
“Hope” gone down in charity to the faithful fire.
. ...Tedimus: “Wet Saturday” is dry enough now.
M.R.: “Of the Editor”:—
If only I could grasp him by the throat
And make him eat the very words he wrote
Before 1 strangled the sarcastic goat,
I’d die content.
Editor cables from George-street North to say he is
now touring in Borneo... .G.C.: As stated in the
review, the book was printed for private circulation
only J..J.: No more of your “Echoes”.... RX'.:
Thumbs down to “The Hands of Fear”... .D.S.:
That snake doesn’t bite A. 1.: Apology for being
“a new hand” accepted. .. .0.T.D.: Rat-trap story
catches no cheque. .. .C.M.A.: What about changing
the brand? R.S.M.: Can’t find space for either
Moses or the locusts. ... 11. V.T.W. : Like neither....
C.E.: Poorly constructed, without a clear-cut story.
.. . . J.McG.: No bawbees for your Scotty. . . .L.E.C.:
“The Barber of Woolgar” not erpial to the chin-
seraper of Seville.... E.T.E.: There’s a story in
it, but you tell it indifferently... .Norval: “Goat
or no goat”? Decidedly no goat. .. .C.K.T.: Flowers
of poesy born to blush unseen. .. .E.H.T.: Not bad,
but far too long. .. .0.A.J.: No “Coincidence” in
your offer and our acceptance. ... R.G.: Try again
when you are a few years older. . ..A.D. : Flat beer.
. ...D.F.J.: “Booty,” not worth seizing. ... L.M.:
Hesitate to tell the naked truth about your Adventure
in the Nude. .. . A.C.G.: We got very dry before
we reached your world’s end. .. . T.J.A1..: Not a bad
guess—actually the 50th anniversary will occur on
January 20. We’ll celebrate with a special jubilee
number; you’ll hear enough about it presently....
H.W.: On the heavy side. Alight sink in elsewhere.
.... IJ.K.: Nothing much wrong with it, except
its lack of originality... .Barney: The “purloins
of the city” misprint is the best part of it....
Ibis: Quality of “To the Typist” suggests that it
might be from the typist W.J.C.: Too much horse-
radish to the portion of beef.. . . J.A.: No use for
rhymed uplift Ninette: “Exit”—even so
C.R.J.L.: Fair idea, but you strangle it.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.T.AI.: You put down strokes as if they were
tramlines A.E.P.: “Siren” too splintery and
splenetic. . . .C.L.: Bristles with blemishes. . . .N.A.:
Drawings a bit better; jokes worse. .. .F.H.M.: List-
less gag and the sketch is a crime... .K. 11.8.:
Patches of good penwork in it....T.G.: Please don’t
fish for us with stale bait 8.R.: Mostly inaccura-
cies. .. .8.5.: Try your parish magazine. .. .C.L.J.:
Don’t draw two figures until you have learned to draw
0ne....E.H.: Irresolute penwork, and gags handed
down from the ’nineties... .S.F.: Ghastly... .J. 8.:
Mere trivialities N.P. J.: He might repay teaching,
hue don’t imagine he’s a prodigy... .V.L.: To get
even that scrubby pair on paper is an accomplish-
ment for you H.K.R.: Nothing to be ashamed of;
plenty of time for a 12-year-old. .. .T.G.R. : Worth-
less. . . .J.Y.: Shaky lines, disjointed objects, thread-
bare jest J.W.S.: At a guess we’d say they are
the work of a dyspeptic coroner.


ŵ
FAMOUS
PORT
•' ..."
it "" 7F\
m
V.
.
Jk
%
l
m
m
■■ x.
—ifc
■ 7 , • ■
■
■
?
1
v-. '•> I
mm I
mm i
& i~aaaißß^Miii
T*
£> /• yi—
?s # j 4 / *
Ji
in. ■'?j
H
I
l^¥
Hi
■
1111
, ■s&
%
m
4Sfc
■
a
«wr
Bi
■
.
' ■ :
'
%


The Bulletin
Vol. 50. —No. 2600.
December 11, 1929.
“OOH! I BELIEVE THERE’S A MAN UNDER THE BED!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
214 George Street, Sydney; Box 252188.
Victoria: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 2J,9 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Regent 5793.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
5 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10os., Id. United Kingdom; 4oz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional 4°z., Id. All Sea Route: ltioz., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4 0Z ■ or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
AUSTRALIAN LITERATURE—
By A. G. Stephens . . .. .. .. 2
MRS. EDDY: HER LIFE 2
THE DIRTY HABIT OF BATHING . . . . 5
BOOKS WORTH READING .' 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. . . 5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON 7
EDITORIALS ... 8, 9
The Gold Grab Does Wool Come
Next? 8
BILLY HUGHES’S NEW PARTY .. .. 8
CHINA, RUSSIA AND US
By The Bulletin's special Oriental
Commissioner . . . . . . . . 8
THE NEW FEDERAL ARMY 8
OUR COURTS ARE FOR SALE .. ..9
UNCLE SAM IN ANTARCTICA .. ..9
“THE BEDSIDE STORY”—
A cartoon by. Scorfield .. . . .. 9
POLITICAL POINTS 10
A PICTURE- OF BAVIN WHILE LANG
IS SPEAKING 10
POVERTY POINT 11
“IS THIS THE BETTER ’OLE?”—
A cartoon by Percival .. .. .. .. 11
PERSONAL (with caricatures of Hugh
Denison and others) .. . . . . 13
SOCIETY (with four drawings) .. .. 14, 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..16
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 18, 20
BANK OF N. S. WALES 18
CARLTON AND UNITED BREWERIES . . 18
FIELDINGS 18
BRISBANE PERMANENT BUILDING .. 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with five drawings) 23, 25
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT 26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 32
SUPER. FOR THE HARD-UP FARMER . . 28
HARVESTING SUB.-CLOVER SEED .. ..28
DAIRY PROBLEMS AND OVER RUN. . 28, 32
SMOKE-OH (with three drawings) .. .. 34
PEN AND PICTURE 37
NEWEST TALKIES 37
SPORTING (illustrated) 39, 41, 42
A. J.C. RACES WARWICK FARM .. . . 39
V.R.'C. RACES 39
BUSINESS, ROBBERY 42
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 45
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 48
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 50
“MERRY CHRISTMAS!” .. ..47,51,52
TWO COMPLETE SHORT STORIES—
“ANNA,” by Norman S. Morrell . . 55, 57
“Ma’m’selle,” by Horton Brooks .. 57, 58
VERSE —By E. J. Brady, Hugh McCrae,
M. Forrest, Ronald McCuaig .. 52, 58
Next Week.
How many people know that a battle was fought
a hundred years ago near Parramatta, outside Sydney,
in which at least 12 men were killed, and many
wounded ?
J. H. M. Abbott will tell the whole story next
week.
Margaret Fane and Hilary Lofting have written
for us a story, “Dead Man’s Shilling,” tltat The
Bulletin will be proud to print.
And a Northern Territory woman tells us of the
tragedy of the half-castes. This article is going
to make a commotion at Canberra.
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1929.
THE GOLD GRAB—WILL
WOOL BE NEXT?
The debate on the Commonwealth Bank
Bill showed a pathetic ignorance of finance
among the rank and file of Federal poli-
ticians, and complete absence of a desire
to learn any more. And the leaders
appeared to no great advantage either, in-
cluding Theodore, who was never before
trusted with a job which involved the prob-
lem of squaring the trade balance, and
Page, who was trusted and showed an un-
limited capacity for misconception of the
whole business, and Scullin, who was never
trusted with anything till the other day.
Yet the basic trouble is simple enough.
When a nation or an individual has for
many years bought far more things and
incurred far more obligations than it or
he can pay for, or takes the trouble to pay
for, it or he must go into debt. And when
the creditor becomes alarmed, and refuses
or greatly reduces credit, it or he must
work more, or luxuriate less. The matter
is how to do one or both of these things,
and how to do it or them in time to pre-
vent a burst; and that being all, the field
of debate and blither should be narrowed
to a minimum. If the men who are sup-
posed to be in charge of the country’s
destiny are half-hearted and incapable of
realising the urgency of the positipn. and
if they chatter too much and too long, a
third alternative, public insolvency, may
come upon them unawares. Incidentally, a
considerable crowd of Reds would welcome
insolvency as “a blow to the capitalist”
and “the capitalist system.”
Many alleged financiers, who might pos-
sibly shine in retail trade; or, again, might
fail in it, insist on breaking in with proposals
for increased taxation, as a means of raising
more paper income and putting the State
and Federal accounts straight. The pro-
posals include land-tax (this is regularly
propounded as something new, though land
pays from anje to three taxes already,
according to the size of the estate), income-
taxes and death duties (neither are wanting
already), entertainment taxes, and so on.
But however badly the local accounts need
repair, all these have no bearing on the
question involved in the Commonwealth
Bank Bill, and neither ha's the management
of the bank, or the prosecution or non-
prosecution of John Brown. A Speaker
with a profound knowledge of finance
would rule such topics out as irrelevant,
and if a member insisted on talking about
them would order his removal for giving
back-chat to the Chair. Whether the local
paper-money accounts are good, bad or in-
different, the problem which the Bank Bill
attempts to deal with is in a separate cate-
gory, and it is a problem which is peculiar
to Australia. No other country has been
so foolish as to build up anything quite
resembling it.
Ex-Treasurer Page has a standing when
matters of this kind are under discussion,
being the man. who totally misunderstood
the financial situation for over six years
in the most critical period of the Com-
monwealth’s history, and went out of office
with no signs of improved comprehension.
As reported in the press he said:—
“What the Commonwealth suffered from
was excessive imports and insufficient exports.
The trade balance 'could only be adjusted by
increasing production, by borrowing abroad,
or by exporting gold.”
To each of these futilities the answer is
easy. There is no shadow of hope that
production, or rather surplus production
which is over and above local requirements
and consequently available for export, can
be increased by from £30,000,000 to
£40,000,000 per annum in time to meet an
emergency which is right here already. Even
if the ex-Minister of Finance could arrange
for good seasons and high wool and wheat
prices the thing couldn’t be done. To rely
on borrowing is equivalent to relying that
the horse which Dr. Page backed will win
Melbourne Cups as a steady habit. It is
reliance on the man at the other end not
only to lend enough for this year, but to
lend for subsequent years so long as wanted.
And Australia is a land which now produces
less gold than at any time since 1851 and
which has not much saved up, so the
export of sovereigns is a very temporary
expedient. Even as regards the comman-
deering and export of gold Dr. Page de-
manded full preliminary investigation by a
Committee or Commission, after the best
Bruce-Page tradition. If the Committee,
after taking much evidence, reported that
gold shouldn’t be exported, and new foreign
loans hadn’t been coming in meanwhile,
and old loans had been falling due, and
export prices hadn’t risen, and miracles
hadn’t happened, it is terrible to think
what might follow. A maddened com-
munity might even put Hughes in office.
The expedient which would meet every
emergency is the one which Dr. Page most
carefully omitted; that is, to place an em-
bargo on a sufficient variety of foreign
goods, and thus reduce imports by the re-
quired thirty or forty millions per annum,
and give our own people a chance of em-
ployment to that extent. That would be
commandeering other people’s trade instead
of our own people’s sovereigns, and the pro-
ceeding would be profitable if brutal. After
all, other people have no legal claim on
this market, while our nation has some
claim on its own sovereigns. The state of
siege could always be raised when the
foreign and local debt was all paid off, and
the burden of wealth became unendurable,
so the device would only be of a temporary
or emergency character.
The whole commandeering business, even
though it may become unavoidable, amounts
to an evasion of our responsibilities, a piti-
ful attempt to put off the day when we
shall have to face facts, pay our way and
arrange to also pay our debts. We hate
to do without a thousand luxuries or even
to admit that they are luxuries; and we
don’t want the bother of making these
things ourselves, especially if we have to
work any harder to do it. Thus far
only gold is mentioned; but if the plan
serves with gold who is stupid and trustful
enough to think that it will stop at gold?
Wool is the obvious next line to comman-
deer, paying for it locally with notes, and
selling it abroad for gold.
A PARTY WITHOUT A PLATFORM.
W. M. Hughes, seeking that better ’ole,
has had no luck in finding anything ready-
made; and in despair he has crawled into
something of his own making. The nebulous
foundation-stone was laid at Chatswood
(N.S.W.) last week in the presence of his
three supporters.
The cohort is to be called the Australian
party, doubtless for the sake of originality;
and its case, as stated by its angered little
Napoleon, was sadly Eckine: in particular.
He didn’t mention any programme for
straightening the financial tangle, and, with
possibilities of national insolvency ahead
after the gold in the banks is exhausted, a
few illuminating words on that subject
would be welcome from any leader. He
neglected to say if he would finish the
South-to-North railway when made Prime.
Minister, or introduce the freehold system
into the N. Territory in order to encourage
settlement, or if he had definite ideas about
a uniform all-Australian railway gauge. As
Scullin, Theodore, Bruce and Page all
shirk this question, an apostle of light and
progress might have made a sensation by
being definite.
Mr. Hughes was equally inarticulate about
compulsory or voluntary military service,
nor did he even commit himself re volun-
tary membership of trades unions or volun-
tary payment of postage. There was lack
of explanation as to whether he would sool
on his party to amend the much-debated
Navigation Act, or leave it alone, or do
both, or neither. And when he finished it
was still a mystery whether he stood for
revenue-tariffism, low Protection, high Pro-
tection or straight-out prohibition of the
non-essential imports which Australia buys
so lavishly and pays for with such difficulty.
As he put his most emphatic curse on un-
employment, he might have added that
men would find work at making things now
imported if importations were greatly re-
duced, but all he really proposed was
peace in industry.
While declaring with great energy that
State rights “must be swept away” the little
man added that he was no unificationist, and
didn’t want the States swept away. Whether
he believed in subdivision of overgrown
areas and the creation of more States was
a point left in obscurity. With the same
intensity as several hundred other reformers
the ex-Prime Minister stood like a mov-
able or floating rock for amendment of
the Federal Constitution; but, like the
others, he omitted to remark that the only
way that document can be amended is by
referendum, and as the people generally
answer “No” very little can be done, even
by the hungriest applicant for a portfolio.
He declared that the Nationalist State
Government in N. S. Wales had “full
powers” to put the vexed coal situation to
rights, but hadn’t done so, presumably out
of unmitigated sin and cold-boiled iniquity.
It was a mean trick to declare that the
Bavinshaw Ministry possessed these “full
powers,” and not explain, as a barrister
presumably learned in the law, what and
where they were, and it was an unpatriotic
trick not to have explained much earlier,
and thus saved a great deal of misery. Also
the folly of it all sticks out conspicuously,
for if the only man in Australia who knew
how the Bavinshaw Cabinet could master
the situation had offered to sell his infor-
mation, there was hardly any reward short
of a dukedom that he couldn’t have stipu-
lated for in the event of his remedy prov-
ing satisfactory. Also, while denouncing
the Nationalists as being financially sup-
ported by “rich reactionaries,” there was
lack of any definite statement that it was
they and not Hughes’s friends who had the
enthusiastic backing of the Yankee picture
magnates.
As a conclusion to the grand fizzle an
executive was formed to draw up a plat-
form, thus announcing more definitely that
the Australian party has been founded with-
out knowing what it is after, and has to
find out its intentions as it goes along.
THE ETERNAL TRIANGLE IN ASIA.
The greatest threat to world peace is a
disunited China, and recent happenings in-
dicate that the Kuomintang, or Nationalist
Executive, the only approach to a Central
Chinese authority, is shaking on its throne.
This New China has been relying on
strategy rather than direct action. A con-
spicuous example was its method of deal-
ing with Manchuria. After the elder
Chang was removed by a bomb in terri-
tory under Jap control, the Kuomintang
talked confidently of re-attaching the huge
and wealthy province to the republic, and
a Utopia similar to China’s was offered to
the local worker. Young Ci-iang, son of
old Chang, however, turned out to be an
unexpected obstacle. He made it clear
that he would be glad to consider his pro-
vince as a part of China, but only in the
sense that Australia is part of the British
Empire. He would not tolerate any inter-
ference in his local arrangements. To give
the argument point he beheaded a few
troublesome generals.
The Kuomintang’s reply looked at the
moment like a triumph of tactics. It turned
the Russians out of the Chinese Eastern
Railway, hoping thus to embroil Chang
with the Soviet. When the Soviet com-
menced mobilising on the frontier, the
Kuomintang urged Chang to go forth with
the flower of his arm and oppose the in-
vaders. Had Chang followed this advice
it is highly probable that the Kuomintang
would have moved in with an army and
occupied Chang’s province in the name of
United China. The scheme miscarried, how-
ever, because, just at the propitious
moment, the Kuomintang became engaged
nearer home with a couple of revolting
brass-hats.
i'resiuent Chiang marched up to Han-
kow to scatter the forces of these enemies
—and scattered instead approximately
12,000,000 dollars amongst the rebel gen-
erals. This is an old method of winning
battles; but, unfortunately, it only post-
pones the problem—in this case the problem
of unifying a vast and sprawling country—
and strengthens the enemy at your expense.
In China the position at the moment is
that the treasury of the Nationalists is
seriously depleted, while their enemies are
as active and well provided for as at any
time since 1911.
Instead of Manchuria being occupied by
Chinese soldiers, it is overrun by Russians.
The fact that the soldiers sent to oppose
the invaders practically bolted does not
necessarily mean that the Manchurian army
is a rabble. It only means that Chang
has no intention of raking Manchuria out
of the fire in order to make a present of
it to the Nationalists.
The situation is full of possibilities.
Owing to the failure of the Nationalist
strategy, Russia is once again face to face
with Japan in Manchuria. For South Man-
churia, on account of the splendid Japanese
railways, is to all intents and purposes a
Japanese province, and its trade and pro-
ducts are as vital to Japan as India’s are
to Britain. Japan’s monopoly has, how-
ever, been threatened lately in several
places. The Chinese Nationalists have
practicallj’ concluded a contract with an
American syndicate for a railway to run
down from Mongolia through Manchuria,
which, when completed, will carry a good
half of the trade now enjoyed by Nippon.
In Russian hands the Chinese Eastern Rail-
way further weakens the monopoly, because
the port of Vladivostock is a most serious
competitor of the Jap port of Dairen.
The new Japanese Ministry is pledged to
pacific ways and means, but a Japanese
Government which jeopardised the coun-
try’s interests in Manchuria would last
about as long as a British Cabinet which
seriously proposed to sink the navy. Thus,
despite League of Nations conferences
and Kellogg pacts, the Manchurian cur-
tain continues to go up on the eternal
triangle, composed of American commercial
interests, Japanese over-population and Rus-
sian imperialism under a new alias.
Congenitally I am a pacifist, but I can-
not help wondering if Mr. Scullin has
picked the right time for setting the world
an example in disarmament.
FENG-SHUL
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Scullidores’ Army.
The Australian Labor Government was
noticeably proud of itself when it swept
aside the compulsory provisions of the
Defence Act—so far as it could be done by
the administrative route —without consult-
ing Chauvel, Monash and White. It
referred with the utmost admiration to its
statesmanship and nobility of soul, and the
applause was dutifully swelled by the Labor
papers, especially the Age. Attorney-General
Brennan asked the people “to envisage a
higher conception of defence than that in-
volved in teaching childhood the way to
kill.” Defence Minister Green promised
“a saving of approximately £lBO,OOO this
financial year”—for seven months, in fact.
Doubters were bidden to remember that the
Labor party stood for “adequate home
defence against possible foreign aggression,”
and were assured that “Mr. Scullin would
evolve a scheme.”
The Government is now beginning to
realise that there is a world of difference
between wiping out a defence system with
a stroke of the pen and building up another.
All sorts of unforeseen difficulties are
cropping up. When training was obligatory
employers were forbidden to “prevent or
attempt to prevent any employee from
rendering service.” This form of compul-
sion has been sacrificed along with the rest,
so the Minister has been reduced to
imploring wagepayers, public as well as
private, to “facilitate the enlistment of
employees” and make up the difference
between civil and military pay when their
men are in camp.
Another unexpected development con-
cerns the supply of footsloggers. It is
anticipated that there will be gunners,
engineers, signallers and light horsemen
enough, but there are no signs of a rush to
join the infantry; in fact, many of the
young fellows discharged from that arm
stridently declared that they would never
come back. One device for getting recruits
is “a more attractive uniform,” which is to
cost £6 or thereabouts, whereas the uniform
previously issued was turned out at £4.
It is also proposed to have 16 pay parades
per annum as against 12 under the old
system, and to give married militiamen
(practically all the trainees were single)
separation allowances of Is. 3d. a day for
the wife and 7id. for each child. These
innovations will make a big hole in the
savings on which the Government dwells
so fondly. Indeed it seems likely that
Scullin’s army will cost more than Bruce’s
C.M.F., though many thousands fewer men
will be trained.
The muddled Government professes an
enthusiastic regard for A.I.F. traditions. It
is nevertheless enrolling Scottish regiments,
and is prepared to take English, Irish and
Welsh regiments if it can get them. There
were no hyphenated battalions in the A.I.F.
p
Law that Bites Itself.
One of the curious loops in the tangle of
inconsistencies and absurdities that makes
up Australian industrial law is that which
compels magistrates to aid and abet strikes
and other disastrous social disturbances.
The point is now of more than ordinary
importance because the leaders of the


THE BEDSIDE STORY.
“In the House of Reps. Mr. James, Labor member for the Maitland made an emotional and heated attack on the Government for failure to honor its
promise to settle the coal strike without loss to the miners within a fortnight. He declared that the men had been made pawns in a political game, and he asked how
he could face them with such a shameful confession.”
LITTLE BOY JAMES: “Mummy promised me the moon and the stars and they’re not here.”
DADDY: “Don’t be a silly boy. That was only a bedside story.”
LITTLE BOY JAMES (and a good many other little boys): “But I promised half of the moon to some other boys, and they’ll punch me if I don 't give it to t hem."
Maitland miners have given it as their
opinion that if the men refuse to return
to work on the terms offered to them a
20 per cent, levy on the wages of all miners
in employment will be necessary. (Already
most of them are paying 12i per cent.) As
the law stands, payment of such a levy
can be enforced by legal procedure; Queens-
land miners have already been prosecuted
to compel them to contribute to the ham-
stringing of the N. S. Wales coal industry.
Even in the case of an illegal strike, such
as that of the unfortunate timber-yard
employees, unionists in that and other
trades can be, and have been, compelled by
law to subsidise defiance of the law.
It is an anomaly without parallel in the
Statute law of any other part of the Empire,
and runs directly counter to the basic prin-
ciples of all law. If a test case were taken
to the Privy Council the odds are Pitt-
street to a pineapple that the cock-eyed
contradiction would be declared utterly
bad. t
0
Buying the Use of a Court.
The senior State has just made a new and
discreditable record for itself. It has
produced a divorce case which lasted
nearly two months and cost the parties, so
it is said, over £BOOO. For seven weeks a
Judge, four eminent counsel and a nonde-
script crowd listened to allegations against
a multiplicity of individuals mixed up
in the case. Among the witnesses were
a lady who (to use the Judge’s description)
has “a past and a present,” another who
is “without a sense of morality,” another
who is “the kept mistress of a rich man”
and yet another who “had a husband she
could not find.” Also there were a jockey
who had lost his license, a "disreputable-
looking pugilist” and a gentleman who had
been in gaol. His Honor commented sadly
that certain witnesses whose evidence might,
have been pertinent had not been brought
forward, presumably because they were
either “too respectable to associate them-
selves with the case, or too disreputable to
be called, even in this case.” There was
strong ground for suspicion, as the Judge
indicated, that some of the evidence had
been bought and paid for.
Had it not been that at least one of
the parties was possessed of considerable
wealth the matter probably would not have
come before the Court at all; or if it had
done so it would have received very short
shrift. The question is whether it is not
time a limit was set to the right to pur-
chase the time of Courts. Even if the
transaction paid the Justice Department,
that would not dispose of the point at issue.
The course of justice has been hampered
and delayed in respect to other cases on
the Court’s list, the public has been invited
to gloat over the* exposition of farmyard
morality, and a Judge has so far lost his
sense of proportion as to commend the pub-
lication of the bedraggled chronicle on
the grounds, forsooth, that it brought for-
ward new witnesses in a case that had
already sucked into its vortex far too
many.
+ .
America in Antarctica.
Our Anglo-Saxophone cousins across the
Pacific are concerned with the British note,
delivered some 12 months ago, but only
recently replied to, which points out that
the Antarctic seas, with certain lands in
that vicinity now being “explored” by an
American expedition, 'have long been con-
sidered a British sphere by right of dis-
covery and exploration. One American
paper characteristically refers to this claim
as based on “impudence and effrontery,”
since an American named Wilkes dis-
covered land in those regions in 1832,
whereas Ross, on whose extended explora-
tions the British case is based, did not see
the land until 1840.
The facts are that Wilkes made his dis-
coveries in 1840, not eight years earlier;
that Ross made the first of his three
voyages in 1839, his researches extending
until 1843; and that as early as 1823 and
1831 Weddell and John Biscoe, both Brit-
ishers, discovered and named land in this
region. After Wilkes the Americans took
no \ further visible interest in the Antarctic
until recently. On the other hand, the
British have sent one expedition after an-
other ever since the days of Ross, and
several European countries have followed
the example. Even now no American
attempt has been made to locate the South
Pole by land, after the manner of Amund-
sen and Scott. Instead an aeroplane has
been flown over a spot estimated to be the
Pole, just as was done when Byrd flew
from Europe and “located” the North Pole !
It is on such grounds that America is
endeavoring to justify its claims to the
Antarctic continent, supposing that such a
continent exists. The outside world will
hardly rate the evidence as convincing,
especially when it remembers the nation’s
apathy after Wilkes’s expedition until the
wealth of the Antarctic whaling grounds
and the possibility of rich coal and mineral
deposits were made public of late years.-
«
Do Canadian Railways Pay?
“Clerk”: Sir Henry Thornton certainly
has worked wonders as chief of the Canadian
National Railways, but Mr. P. Airey (B.
27/11/’29) is very wrong when he says that
the system made a “very handsome surplus
of 10,000,000 dollars” last year.
If interest charges are disregarded,
Canada had a rail surplus. On that basis,
however, so did Victoria. Including interest
charges, the Canadian result, according to
Thornton’s latest annual report, was actu-
ally a deficit of £5,830,000; the Victorian,
a deficit of £63,000. This is equal to an
average loss of £l4 per mile of railway-
operated in Victoria and £304 per mile in
Canada. The working expenses of Thorn-
ton's show, furthermore, don’t compare
favorably with Clapp’s. Victoria’s ratio of
expenses to income was 73.98, Canada’s
78.89.
Over-capitalisation and a monstrous
interest bill hang heavier round the Aus-
tralian railwayman’s neck than does even
the dead weight of political meddling in
current operations.
*
Fashions in Crime.
There are fashions in crime as well as
clothing. Not long ago one of the Sydney
papers gave prominence to the doings of
a youth styled “The Grey Shadow,” who
went in for robbery under arms in the
moving-picture manner. Forthwith “Grey
Shadows” sprang Up all over the place.
There were so many of them that the con-
stabulary became embarrassed, and then
wrathful. Some of the “Grey Shadows”
were run in and found to be silly young
skylarkers out for a bit of newspaper glory;
others, it is suspected, were dispersed with
well-aimed police boots. Anyway, they
soon faded away.
Then “the underworld” had its turn.
Gang warfare flared up again. “Gunman”
Somebody tried to shoot another worthy
and was shot himself. A mysterious un-
known let fly with a revolver outside a
pub and made two hits. These events and
others of the kind were described with a
wealth of detail and imagination highly
flattering to “the underworld.” The im-
pression was conveyed that gang leaders
are all dashing fellows and their women-
folk invariably beautiful.
“Death pacts” are the latest. Sydney
furnished two in the course of a few days
and Queensland another in the same week.
The parties are generally infatuated lovers
with disapproving parents (the girls, of
course, being beautiful), and at least five
young victims died in the excruciating
agonies of strychnine poisoning. Evidently
one of these strychnine cases suggested the
others.
The Parramatta S.M. has drawn
attention to what he describes as
the “dreadful” increase of juvenile
crime in Sydney’s western suburbs. An-
other magistrate reports that things are
just as bad in his district, and blames the
influence of Hollywood films. Hollywood
films have certainly a great deal to answer
for, but so have publications which present
pseudo-romantic pictures, of crime in order
to catch pennies. Bad boys are imitative
and fond of “showing off”; and it is the
same with the criminal class and persons
with criminal tendencies. Maudlin accounts
of malefactors, 99 per cent, of whom are
really uninteresting, and excessive descrip-
tions of their evil deeds inevitably inflame
subnormal minds and feed the dangerous
vanity of ruffians.
4
The “Stop-Writ” Swindle.
At their last conference the representatives
of the N.S.W. Country Press seemed to
be far more concerned about what the pro-
fession knows as “stop writs” than the
circumstances justify; and lest the public
should be encouraged to think that a news-
paper can be muzzled by the mere issue of
a libel writ, it will be well to set out the
facts. .
By way of example, a case in which
The Bulletin was interested shall be cited.
This paper had said that a prospectus then
before the public was misleading. No doubt
in the hope of stopping further comment,
a writ claiming damages for libel was issued.
The Bulletin assured itself that the pro-
moters were continuing to use the prospec-
tus to sell shares; then it repeated its pre-
vious comment and emphasised its warning.
Threats of proceedings for contempt were
made—and disregarded. No proceedings
were taken; and, as expected, even the
action for libel was not proceeded with.
As a matter of fact, for over 30 years, (i.e.,
since Lord Russell’s judgment in Rex v.
Payne) the Courts have been stressing the
futility of “stop writs.” An Albury editor
told the conference that “his newspaper
had two such writs in the last 18
months—each isssued obviously to stifle
free comment.” The fact that he was bluffed
by them merely demonstrated how those
who do not trouble to become acquainted
with their legal rights may be wronged by
impudent persons. The only kind of
punishable publication is one made with
the clear intention of prejudicing the fair
trial of an issue pending before a court.
Even where an article is likely to pre-
judice a trial, the Court will not act if ’t
is satisfied that there has not been malice.
In any motion for “a rule to commit for
contempt, the Court,” to quote Lord
Hewart in Factor v. the Daily Mail, “must
be satisfied that the pending proceeding,
the trial of which it is alleged is being pre-
judiced, is a genuine 'proceeding .” Where
the proceeding is bogus (in the words of
the Albury editor, “issued obviously to
stifle free comment”) the Courts often
applaud those who have the courage to
challenge what is really blackmail. Justice
Phillimore (Rex v. Blumenfeld) said:
“If half of what the respondent has said
about the applicant be true, it is very much
for the public benefit that his unmasking
should not be delayed.”
The cure for the “stop-writ” swindle
is not the new law which some of the
country pressmen want the Bavin Govern-
ment to pass, but a study of existing
decisions on the subject, and the courage
to rely on them.


ROAD WORTHINESS
Road worthy cars are developed essentially by strenuous road tests,
where every-day conditions intensified a hundred times, prove the
road worthiness of cars and their accessories.
And in the five great 1929 tests* of supreme road worthiness and
performance, all the winners used Standard Shell Oil and Spirit.
*l. Ulster Tourist Trophy.
2. Dublin Grand Prix.
4. Le Mans Grand Prix.
5. Junior Car Club Double 12 hours.
3. Brooklands Automobile Racing Club.
ŵ
MOTOR OIL
AND SPIRIT
is
mci
'niiixf^.'
I **^V
5923
POLITICAL
POINTS
It looks as if the McPherson Government
will be bombed out of office by Labor, the
Rural Progs, and the Independent Lib. pair
(Forrest and Gray) when the new Vic.
Assembly meets this afternoon. If so, the
Labor Government will not differ materially
from the one that ran the show from May,
1927, to November, 1928. Prendergast, who
is getting on for 76, may not be included,
although the party is still grateful to him
for past services. Urgent finance bills and
the necessary measure to continue the Met-
ropolitan Tram Board in office will be the
only business done before Christmas.
Rowland James, Federal member for the
northern N.S.W. coalfields, let his angry
passions loose at Canberra the other day
when he told his leaders what a .contemptible
dodge it was to fish for the votes and finan-
cial support of the miners with the promise
of a satisfactory strike settlement within
14 days. The fact that they did so knowing
they had no power to fulfil the promise
struck the member as a land-shark’s adver-
tisement. But he was a much less ram-
pant Jimmy next day. Possibly liis atten-
tion had been drawn in the interval to the
crowd of homeless ghosts who tried for free-
dom of speech and now wander about mak-
ing speeches to themselves for want of any
other audience.
The new sport in N.S.W. Leg. Assembly,
which seems to be rapidly approaching the
N.S.W. Promier
Bavin at bay.
bottle - throwing
stage, is for a
Labor stalwart to
shout that “the
Premier looks as
full as a tick,” and
make his escape
in the ensuing
tumult. It is an
uncouth reprisal;
the abstemious
Bavin was recently
baited into suggest-
ing to a boisterous
Labor member —of
course, he shouldn’t
have done it—that
the beer was talk-
ing. Perhaps the
present House is
incapable of behav-
ing with ordinary
decency, but if the
rules were altered
to admit of suspen-
sion, w 7 itli loss of
salary, in every
case of hooligan-
ism, a third offence
to involve loss of
salary for a twelve-
month, the descent
to the Surry Hills level might be arrested.
There are men on the N.S.W. coalfields
who say that the leaders never expected the
terms to be accepted, and that, if they didn’t
actually give the men the wink to reject the
scheme, they are glad it was rejected. Now
they can go to the proprietors and say:
“Well, you see how determined they are.
We tried to persuade them, but it was no
good. They have held out for nine months
and can hold for another nine.” And then,
of course, a compromise of some sort is
hoped for. Certainly there are hundreds of
men who, having stuck it for nine months,
reckon they might as well stick it for another
few weeks on the off-chance of squeezing out
a bit better terms.
The position seems to be that the northern
coalminers would rather live in idleness on
State doles (it is taken for granted that the
complaisant Bavin Government will con-
tinue them) and levies extorted from other
miners (it is proposed to raise these to 20
p.c. of the pay-cheque) than work for the
highest coalmining wages in the world. If
this is a “union principle” it is a dashed bad
one. Not by such “principles” was Aus-
tralia made a nation.
Whatever Government is
in office in Vic. in the New
Year will have to start
making plans for the State-
wide prohibition referen-
dum. Three months’ notice
must be given, and there is
a general desire to get the
darned thing over as soon
as possible. There is no
likelihood of a verdict in
favor of Cold Tea. Most
people are satisfied with
the work of the Licenses
Reduction Board. In 1907
there were 3507 pubs in the
State—one to every 360 of
population; now there are
1823—one to every 970.
A friendly newspaper an-
nounces with striking
app ropri ateness that
between nine and ten
o’clock on the morning
after Hughes started his
“Australian party” adher-
ents were enrolled at the
rate of one a minute.
Exactly the rate at which
mugs are born.
The disqualification of
Bert Edwards, one of the
three State Labor mem-
bers for Adelaide, lias been
removed by the Labor
Council. Edwards, like old
Stuart-Robertson, of Syd-
ney, was accused of being
behind with his dues, but
his real fault lay in taking
the unpopular side in a
recent faction fight. A
child of nature, he announ-
ced on being reinstated
that he intended selling
both his pubs and going for
a holiday. The heads have
relented in Stuart-Robert-
son’s case as well.
Under the N.S.W. Defamation Act a de-
fendant who cannot pay damages may be
imprisoned for 12 months as a judgment
debtor without right of appeal. Justice Long-
Innes, in issuing an order for the release
of one of these unfortunates, mentioned that
he had unavailingly urged the Lang Gov-
ernment, then in its youthful prime, to
amend the barbarous law. The Bavinshaw
Government, on the other hand, undertook
to remove the ancient Wrong from the
Statute Book, and gave notice of a bill
before the Judge spoke out.
By wresting the Castlemaine-Kyneton
seat from young Langslow, Comrade Satchell
brought Labor’s tally in Vic. Assembly up to
30—two more than the muster in the
1924-27 and 1927-29 Houses. State Labor
now holds practically all the territory lead-
ing from (and including) Bendigo, Geelong
and Ballarat to Melbourne. All the 13
city electorates north of the Yarra and five
of the 13 south of that stream have Labor
members. And the Nats, (formerly Libs.)
have only themselves to blame. Leadership
and organisation have been sadly lacking
since 1920.
Queensland has only two State-owned
cattle stations left out of the one-time flock
of 15, the rest having been got rid of at a
loss, because the annual deficit was too much
for human endurance. Sanguine National-
ists say there is a redeeming feature in the
business seeing that the experiment will
never be repeated. But there is often com-
mission for a triumphant party’s friends in
the purchase of odds and ends like that, and
the experiment may be tried again in all its
pristine vigor when the political wheel goes
round.
Part of Hoover’s recipe for curing the
American slump—increased production and
reduced taxation- —finds a place, on a mild
scale, in the N. S. Wales Budget. The 3d.
in the fl super-tax on companies’ profits is
to go, and a toothful is nibbled off the main
tax, while the child-endowment burden is
to be lightened. Some new imposts—on
tobacco sales, entertainments, races and
WALTER KIN GSM ILL,
president of the Senate, who
will have his hands full when
the Senate starts throwing
out Scullidore legislation. He
was president of the West-
ralian Leg. Council for three
years (1919-22).
liquor licenses —are proposed. They are not
very important, nor will they bring in much
revenue: and it would be better to abolish
mid-week racing than to tax it.
As if the coal business wasn’t bother
enough, the Scullidores are being urged to
bring in a preference-to-unionists bill imme-
diately. Absolute preference to unionists,
in a country with so much superfluous labor,
means that no one can get w 7 ork save per-
haps by stealth unless he is in a union.
Yet, in spite of all the rules to the contrary,
in practice lie can’t force a union to admit
him. Even if a man is in he may always
be blacklisted and ordered to stand aside
and starve if he isn’t “financial,” which is
to say if he hasn’t paid all dues, fines and
levies, which in some cases now reach 4s. in
the £of his wages. And he may be made
unfinancial through the secretary refusing
to take liis money even
when offered.
Widows’ pensions have
been the subject of amend-
ing legislation in both Brit-
ain and N. S. Wales. The
House of Lords altered the
MacDonald measure by
inserting a proviso that no
widow with a private
income of over £250 p.a.
should be eligible for a
pension. T li e N.S.W.
changes w*lh among other
things, permit of pensions
being paid to childless
widows, hitherto excluded,
and of pensions being can-
celled where the family
income is substantial —
Minister Drummond men-
tions 160 cases in which
widows are drawing pen-
sions, though £5OO to
£960 p.a. has been coming
into the home. Lang roars
that the Bavinshaws are
“robbing the widows.” His
view seems to be that every
lady who has buried a hus-
band should get £5 a week
from the embarrassed State,
the money to be raised
by a tax on armorial bear-
ings.
The oldest base of the
claim of the U.S.A. to Ant-
arctica is that Lieut.
Wilkes “discovered” it in
1840, and the newest is
that Lieut. Byrd flew to
the South Pole the other
.day, following the track of
Amundsen and Scott, and
thus, as the cabled news
puts it, “discovered, claimed
and occupied new lands for
the United States.” Still,
Cook, the Englishman,
sailing under a commission
from the British Government, got closer to
the Antarctic continent in 1774 than Wilkes
did in 1840. Neither of them landed
except on ice—in fact, the first recorded
landing was made by Borchgrevink, the
Norseman, in 1895. The recent Byrd
“occupied” an already travelled territory by
flying oven it, as birds of one sort and an-
other do any day of the week. Still, it is
possible, with sufficient appeals to the Hail
Columbia spirit, to work up a feeling that
even the horrors of war would be preferable
to the “shame” of Uncle being done out of
the South Polar property.
After much negotiation, the railway bridge
over the Yarra on the disused outer-circle
line is to be reconditioned and opened for
road traffic between Heidelberg and Ivew.
The Public Works Dept., the Metropolitan
Board of Works, the Railway Dept, and four
municipal councils are parties to the arrange-
ment, which will cost about £7OOO, besides
an annual payment. For years the bridge
has been a seedy monument to the folly
of the last borrowing boom.
Every time some Federal Scullidore sacks
Government employees N.S.W. falls in as
regards its share of the victims, because it
has a child-endowment list for them to move
on to. Queensland fixed its male basic wage
at £4 ss. per week, and declared it sufficient
for man, wife and three children. N. S.
Wales fixed the same rate as enough for
man, wife and one child. Then it granted
allowances for two extra children, and pro-
ceeded to provide for all the children in
cases of poverty. Queensland Labor was
callous by comparison, having so many ghost
electors which it reckoned would stand by
it whatever it did.
Another round of the long-distance fight
between Willis and Bailey, the N.S.W.
Labor bosses, has ended in the Supreme
Court. Bailey, who controls the State branch
of the Workers’ Union, had Willis expelled
from the party in 1919 for leading an anti-
A.W.U'. revolt. Willis, then a power in the
Miners’ Federation, came back in 1923, and
Bailey was passed out of “the movement'’
(he.had to give up a seat in the N.S.W. Par-
liament also) over the affair of the ballot-
boxes with sliding panels. A party com-
mittee denounced him as the master-mind
of the sliding-panel conspiracy, and sprinkled
its report with choice phrases such as
“unparalleled career of criminal conduct.
One difficulty was to prove publication.
Bailey accomplished this to the satisfaction
of the jury and must have convinced it also
that he was guiltless; anyway he was
awarded £4500 damages against five mem-
bers of the A.L.P. executive of the period,
£2750 being Willis’s share.
The N.S.W. Railway Department comes
badly out of the latest electrocution case in
Sydney. A linesman was sent to do some
work on a pole at South Enfield. He was
told that the wires would be dead if he
turned on switches in accordance with
instructions drafted from the departmental
diagram. But the diagram was wrong—
alterations made in the wiring six years back
had not been marked —and the poor devil
received the full force of 2000 volts. It is
taking a long time to drill home the lesson
that an electric wire is 10 times as dangerous
as a loaded gun, but a department with an
extensive electric-railway system shouldn’t
require any teaching.
The British Labor Government is making
heavy weather. It is pledged not to help Brit-
ish industry by increasing the tariff, but
rather to cut duties. It is also pledged to
enlarge the unemployment doles, and it lias
promoted a marked addition to the number
of applicants for this kind of subsistence.
Some Laborites threaten trouble unless, the
Government gives more than it has promised.
More Liberals are making trouble already
on the ground that it has promised the im-
possible. Only the incurable absenteeism of
the Conservatives recently saved the Ministry
from decisive defeat.
Britain has nothing to gain by.“re-opening
trade relations” with Red Russia, for they
have been open all the time unless the
fellow at Moscow shut them. The worst
difficulty is that the importer and buyer is
the Government itself, and its trade bills are
viewed with so much suspicion everywhere
that the discount rate is about five times
more than is charged on reputable private
merchants’ bills. This makes the price of an
imported suit at Moscow so high that it is
only within reach of the rich. The Soviet
desire is that the Labor Ministry should
supply British loans so that the Commis-
saries could buy in England for cash, and
save the discount; but even the richest
Friends of Russia hesitate to put good money
into Moscow insecurities.
Massy Greene had a prior engagement
when Hughes launched his new “party,” but
sent along a message
saying lie would sink
or swim with it. The
Scull idores profess to
believe that he and
Duncan will help them
against the massed
attacks of the Nat.-
Cocky Senators. Their
help would be of small
value, considering that
there are only seven
Laborites in the Sen-
ate ; nor would they
have the slightest
chance of getting
Labor support if both
Houses were dissolved.)'
It might suit the'
Labor people to throw
their votes to Hughes
and Maxwell again;
but they would never
withdraw two men
from their N.S.W.
Senate team to put in
Duncan and Greene.
Realisation of this
obvious truth is ex-
.pected by the Nation-
Senator Massy
Greene.
alists to have a sobering effect on the former
Customs Ministor. They don’t care a dump
what Duncan does.
“F.S.”: The escapees from Dutch New
Guinea mentioned as having reached Thurs-
day Island (B. 27/11/’29) were concerned
in the rebellion that shook Java in 1926.
Giving evidence subsequently, the immediate
leader admitted that his orders had come
from Singapore, where a strong Communist
organisation had grown up under the aus-
pices of the Pan-Pacific Secretariat, which
proposes to have its next conference in
Canberra. The Javanese turned the Soviet-
inspired movement into an attempt to re-
establish the old native kingdom of
Madjapahit. It was proposed to murder
the whites, British excepted. Like a similar
attempt by the half-caste Pieter Erberfeld
250 years earlier, the uprising miscarried
owing to a premature disclosure. Neverthe-
less, there were 14 simultaneous outbreaks
in various parts of the island, and the central
post-office at Weltevreden, which also
houses the overseas cables, was occupied.
THE CORPSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Nationalist party is a pallid cadaver.”— Hughes.
Said Peter Puffin, M.H.R.,
“I’m feeling desperately ill.
Before the symptoms go too far
I thought I’d see you, Doctor Bill.”
The other sighed and shook his head.
“You’ve come too late, old man. You’re
dead.”
“Oh, have a heart!” in pink distress
The Nat. made faltering reply;
“I’m not too clever, I confess.
But —-dead!”.... Quoth William testily:
“Such is my diagnosis. Fate
Has sent you to my door too late.
“Some weeks ago, when Marks and Max
Came round to my consulting-room,
I analysed their fell attacks,
And snatched them from a yawning tomb.
As babes reborn they romp and crow;
I horned them, so I ought to know.”
“Yes,” Puffin sighed, “too right you ought;
For, if my memory serves, old hoss,
Reincarnation is your forte,
First Lab., then Nat., now fire-new Aus.;
But as it seems my bolt I’ve shot
I’ll pick my cemetery lot.”
VICTORIA.
WAWHERESH.


IS THIS THE BETTER ’OLE?
“W.M. Hughes, Walter Marks, G.A. Maxwell and Senator Duncan announce the formation of the ‘Australian Party.'"
THE FIELD-MARSHAL: “Where the blithering blazes is the rest of the army?”
THE ADMIRAL: “I believe I can see another major-general coming.”
Poverty
Point
The Ghoul”; Reviewing Oscar Asche’s
reminiscences, London Telegraph asserts
that his memory might almost be called
uncanny and quotes as an example:—
9 n h i s ,, last Australian tour it was found impos-
slblf/r °,- - v enou gh, to obtain in Sydney any copies
of Julius C<esar,” which he wanted to revive. Mr.
Asche was equal to the occasion. He dictated the
whole text to his secretary for copies to be typed
v ® om P an y> and it was discovered aftenvards
that , he had made fewer than a dozen slips. Yet he
had not acted in the play for ten years.
The memory that could recall all “Julius
In® 8 ?- 1 !. a . forget all the bookshops and
t,. e libraries is more than uncanny. It’s a
blinking liar.
‘ Bill K. Shakrazor”: Our suburban ama-
teurs were putting on the “Merchant,” with
the aid ol a pro., who hadn’t had a regular
in i or . months. He was Antonio, and on
tbe first night turned up with the effects of
airing a grievance in the near-by pub thick
upon him. All went fairly well until, glar-
ing fiercely at the audience, he bellowed: —
I hold the world but as the world, Gratiano;
A stage where every man must sit and listen
To the talkies !.... Damn ’em !
The prompter read the rest of it.
“Hops-and-Seotch”: Bert Bailey, asso-
ciated with J.C.W. in a tour of “The Patsy,”
played 110 towns and got good money from
nearly all of them. Thus he disproved the
assertion of a musical-comedy favorite, who,
returning to the city after a disastrous time
out back, remarked: “There was only one
—— who could get money in the country.
That was Ned Kelly—and the secret died
with him.”
“Isaac Email”: An American equity
trouble has been settled without any deci-
sion as to whether threatened motherhood
on the part of a leading lady is an “act of
God.” A manager named Harris, contem-
plating a road show with “Coquette,” aban-
doned the idea when Helen Hayes notified
that her delicate condition would preclude
any touring. Five actors thereupon sued
Harris for the minimum guaranteed them
under contract. They maintained as
possible that another leading lady, who
wasn't going to have a baby, could be pro-
cured, and had a win. One of them was
Charles Waldron, who brought “The Squaw
Man” and “The Virginian” here and married
an Australian girl. The Hayes “act of
God” will arrive about February.
“Soc.” : As a critic I’ve had invitations to
witness press screenings of movies as early
as 7.30 a.m., and free Sunday shows are a
regular and vastly patronised institution in
a couple of Sydney theatres. But the dead
limit is an invitation from United Artists
to witness “The Trespasser,” described as
“the flawless gem of the speaking screen.”
Commencing time 11.30 p.m. (after the usual
night performance), terminating 1.15 a.m.
One engaging concession is made on the
invitation card—dress is optional.
“Ngatik”: Until country theatres are
wired for them, the talkies are going to pro-
vide a dull sort of entertainment outside the
cities. Accidental sitting on piano keys,
knocking vases and ornaments over, yells and
the dramatic pointing of a finger with “Yuini
killed him” might sound all right, but they’re
damn empty -when you get ’em silent.
Imagine having a watch, hearing nothing,
a dozen or more feet of a joker crooning to
his sweetheart!
“O. Blin”: As a gold-spinner “A Message
from Mars,” revived in Melbourne, is almost
worthy to rank with “East Lynne” and
“Struck Oil.” It dropped a nugget of £SB,OCX)
into the lap of its original Australian owner,
William Hawtrey, who ultimately left the
country after borrowing his fare. Hawtrey
presented the play almost continuously for
four or five years from 1902 on, and its
subsequent repetitions have enriched various
gentlemen. Of its original cast Gregan
McMahon holds probably a world’s record
with over 1000 appearances as Horace
Parker. O. P. H'eggie, also in that cast, is
now in the United States; recently the sub-
stantial ghost of his voice was made audible
in “The Letter” talkie. Charles Hammond,
Sinclair Bayfield and Thomas Holding also
went to the U.S. One veteran, Nellie Mor-
tyne, is still with us. Another, Norman
Campbell, guides a busy pen on Melbourne
Herald.
“Macann”: Anyone who wants to get a
line on to the standard of dramatic criticism
in Sydney need only read the notices of
“Strange Interlude,” lately staged at the
Playbox. Apart from proving himself in it
an innovator and a great craftsman, O’Neill
fused brilliantly a strong theme, an original
and convincing plot and first-class charac-
terisation. Almost every critic missed almost
every point. They either said innocuous no-
things or screamed “Sex!” The play’s
theme is sexual, but it is dramatically clean.
O’Neill, as far as this sort of criticism is
concerned, makes the mistake of dealing with
sex seriously. Dealt with that way sex in
the eyes of the Grundies is filth. The dirty,
giggling suggestivenes of dozens of movies
and scores of musicomedies has fixed a
beautiful convention.
“O. Kay”: “Up Stage,” correcting
“Caesar’s Ghost” (B. 4/12/’29), asserts that
the Gilbert Emery of “Behind that Cur-
tain” is not identical with the Gilbert Emery
who commenced with Bland Holt. C. J.
Dennis, who should know, since Emery was
the first to portray the role of Ginger Mick
on the stage, is certain that the Victorian
actor of that name is dead. Bland H'olt,
however, declares that the Emery of the
talkie is identical with his young aspirant
of long ago. I’m inclined to agree with
Holt. The movie Gilbert Emery looks and
talks like an Australian.
_ “Caesar’s Ghost”: Irma Caron, who is
singing Maori songs to accompany “The
Romance of Hinemoa” movie in New York
(B. 27/11/’29), was trained in that sort of
stuff. Her father assisted in arranging the
music for “Tapu.” the first Maori show
staged by Williamsons; Arthur Adams
wrote the libretto. For some time Irma
has been giving sketches of Maori music in
New York, where her husband, “Storky”
(M.P.) Adams, lectures and writes.
“L.H.P.”: Of all Allan Wilkie’s Shak-
spook studies probably the best is Malvolio,
a performance reminiscent of Tree’s. Con-
sidering the laughs “Twelfth Night” sup-
plies* it is surprising that Sydney has seen
only five revivals in 60 years. Until Wilkie
played it, the comedy had not been staged
since the Margaret Anglin revival at the
Royal in 1908, with George Titheradge as
Malvolio. Five years previous at the same
house Musgrove presented his edition de
luxe (the scenery was by Hawes Craven).
Australian actress Essie Jenyns made an
ideal Viola in the 1887 show at the Cri-
terion, with her step-pa, Bill Holloway, as
Malvolio, Dick Stewart (now in front at
the Cri.) as the Clown, and his wife, Connie
Deorwyn, as the Countess. Arthur Greena-
way made up so well as the twin-brother
Sebastian that he was frequently addressed
by visiting pressmen between the acts as
“Miss Jenyns.” Louise Pomeroy, the Muri-
kan star, solved the double business by
playing both roles.
“Splin”: Prime Minister Scullii), cornered
by a musical deputation in Sydney, relieved
himself of the sounding pronouncement that
“we cannot allow America or any other country
to take away our employment.” The plati-
tude referred to the emptying, per the talkies,
of sundry orchestral pits. Like all plati-
tudes, it is based on a truth; we cannot
allow it to be done, .simply because it is
done already. With the exception of those
in a few of the leading palaces, the orchestra
pits in the talkie houses have nothing more
musical in them than beds of artificial flow-
ers and the bordering liowlitzers. Yet short of
employing them itself, it is difficult to sec
what the Government can do for the dis-
missed.
“Masker”: The talkies have re-opened
Sydney Empire. A fine, comfortable theatre,
it has lain idle on the fringe of Pyrmont
for months. It was a ridiculous place,
to build a good theatre, anyway, because
centralisation is the god of the theatrical
business. As a talkie house it ought to do
better, the Capitol having proved that the
movie crowd can be attracted to any local-
ity. The Empire’s passing as a legit, leaves
only two such theatres in regular work in
Sydney—Majesty’s and Cri. Even the
Majestic at Newtown turns into a talkie
house at the end of the Allan Wilkie season.
The Palace’s future is hazy. An effort to
make it replace the Tivoli as a vaudeville
show lately flopped. The Royal has done
such comparatively good business since it
turned talkie that its fate looks sealed, and
the Savoy is mostly shut. Since the Firm
goes in for long-run musicomedy at the
Majesty’s and mostly comedy (the forth-
coming “Journey’s End” drama will be a
theatrical phenomenon) at the Cri., there
are practically no commercial theatres at
all dealing in drama in Sydney. To get that
means a trip across the harbor to an up-
stairs room in a discarded council chambers,
or out to a concrete-floored basement in
Oxford-street. If the audience that repre-
sents “House Full” at either turned up at
the State it could be accommodated in a row
and a quarter.
“Mac.”: I agree with the Sundry Show-
man that the Allan Wilkie co. must be
one of the hardest working theatrical parties
\ u r tlm world. In the recent run through
Maoriland, the co. put on 20 Shakspeareau
plays in three weeks in Auckland, Christ-
church, Dunedin and Wellington.
THE CRITIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“These talkie stars from Hollywood,
Whatever chumps and duds they are,”
He babbled to ine as we stood
At lemon-time before the bar,
“Have this advantage over us
Who from tin; stage declaimed the word:
However poor and piteous
Their stuff, they never get the bird.
“These movie exquisites,” he said,
That venerable actor man,
“Have but to toss or hang the head,
To mop and mow—like monkeys can.
They melt and languish, grin and sneer,
AVith gestures all to oft absurd,
Yet” —here he bit into a beer—
“ The blighters never get the bird.
“They’re far away ’neath other skies,” .
He mused and knit a darkling brow ;
“One may permissibly surmise
They wouldn’t hear it anyhow.
Rebukes to puppets on a screen
Cannot be thus administered.
But had they been where I have been,
In parts that Irving played and keen,
I’ll bet they would have got the bird.”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


11
nm
m
"nr.
I
rf/
■
m
ar<
*3
HARDT'S
SPA RIFLING
sr
“As refreshing as a fountain.
»


ACCIDENTS WILL
ẃ
HAPPEN!!
A very thoughtful
Xmas present to
give a motoring
friend —this First-
Aid Outfit.
In real pig-skin
case that fits in the
pocket of the car.
Its chief feature is
Chloro-lodine, ;
stops bleeding;
new preparation that
cleanses, soothes and
heals wounds. Does not sting
nor stain. Bandages, scissors,
etc
15/6
ROTHWELLS OUTFITTING
LIMITED
EDWARD STREET
BP I S BAM £
The “Explosives” House
Explosives and Accessories of All Kinds
Supplied at Lowest Prices.
Manufacturers of
RENDROCK,
The Safest, Cheapest and Most Effective High Explosive Known,
Can be forwarded by Rail or Steamer at ordinary rates of freight.
Blasting Machines, Steel Rock Drills.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney
INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers'
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
December has been a fateful month for
N.S.W.’s tempestuous J. T. Lang. He was
born in Sydney on Dec. 21, 1876, elected to
the Leg. Assembly for the first time on Dec.
6, 1913, and named Treasurer in the Dooley
Ministry on Dec. 20, 1921. Of the 39
Assemblymen who now call him leader only
three (Billy Dunn, Tom Keegan and the
veteran of the party, Stuart-Robertson)
sat with him in the 1913-17 House. Other
members of that Assembly who are still
present are Speaker Levy, Ministers Ball,
Arthur and Chaffey, J. C. L. Fitzpatrick,
Mark Morton and Tummas ’Enley.
GUS CAW THORNE, Adelaide’s charity-
concert genius, whose management has
helped the Adelaide, Amateur Operatic
Society to revive “Florodora” for nine
nights in aid of eight charities nomi-
nated by the Mayoress Cawthorne’s
father “discovered” Peter Dawson, the
singer.
Dan Rees, the miners’ president, is never
likely to forget what happened to him on
Thursday. For upwards of seven hours he
and the other union . leaders who signed
the agreement for the ending of tlie_ nine-
months’ stoppage faced a fierce meeting of
Kurri (N.S.W.) coalies. He was repeatedly
howled down, and the terms of settlement
were thunderously rejected. When the
tumultuous proceedings closed the exhausted
man was informed that, as a defendant in
the libel action brought by Bailey, of the
A.W.U., he had been cast in £5OO damages.
T. 0. Manifold, the young Lismore ( Vic.)
grazier and sportsman who captured the
Hampden Assembly seat from Laborite
Arthur Hughes, was at the war when his
father, the M.H.R. for Corangamitc, died —
he enlisted at 17. For upwards of half a
century the Manifolds have been unofficial
squires in south-west Victoria, and they have
always played the game. Young Manifold
nursed the electorate for two years, and
overturned a substantial Labor majority.
Fred Johns, chief of the S, Aus. Hansard
staff and author of “Who’s Who in Aus-
tralia,” came through another session of the
Assembly ivitliout having missed a sitting.
Appointed nearly 16 years ago, Johns has
been in the Hansard Gallery every sitting
day since. His absence
from the House while busi-
ness was proceeding has
not amounted to four hours
altogether.
A mighty reader with an
encyclopaedic memory was
John James Murray, the
late Queensland Parlia-
mentary librarian. He
began his service in the
library as a boy, and for
long was the right-hand
man of the picturesque
Chevalier Dennis O’Dono-
van, whom he succeeded in
due course. No puzzled
M.L.A. ever sought Mur-
ray’s help in vain. He was
60 when the book was
closed.
The leader of the new
“Australian party” was
born at Llandudno, Wales.
One of the other four
members comes from Cam-
berwell, England.
Charles Bathurst, the
first Baron Bledisloe, who
will succeed Sir Charles
Fergusson as Governor-
General of M.L., hails from
Gloucestershire. He sat in
the Commons as M.P. for
South Wilts, and had a
K.B.E. forced on him in
1917 for services as Par-
liamentary Secretary to
the Ministry of Food dur-
ing the war. An Eton and
Oxford product, he has
long specialised in agricul-
tural problems, and may
thus be expected to fit
neatly into the scheme of
things in the Dominion.
W. C. Angwin, who
has been Westralia’s
London agent since Colebatch (now a Sena-
tor) quitted the job in March, 1927, has had
his appointment renewed for three years.
A shrewd little Cousin Jack, Angwin was in
the building trade till he entered State poli-
tics. He arrived with the second batch of
Westralian Labor Assemblymen in 1904, and
held on tenaciously to one of the Fremantle
seats till he heard London calling. He has
been in all the Labor Ministries, and his
enthusiasm for assisted immigration rivals
that of Opposition-leader Jimmy Mitchell
himself.
W. G. Judd, who died at Arncliffe the
other day, aged 82, was a Ma State Assem-
bly man before the Lamaros and Langs were
thought of. He represented Canterbury in
the 1885-1887 Parliament; after that he
retired to direct the destinies of the brick
and tile co. which he founded. He was
born in Pitt-street, Sydney.
J. A. Cockburn, just dead, was very proud
of his descent from the Scottish Cockburns
of Langton. He outlived every one of the 21
Ministerial colleagues he had in South Aus.,
and was the last survivor of those who
attended the first and second conferences (at
Melb. in 1890 and at Sydney in 1891) to con-
sider Australian Federation.
Captain Dreyfus, of the “affaire” which
agitated the last generation, was 75 the other
day. Esterhazy, the chief villain of the
piece, committed suicide ; Clemenceau was the
last survivor of the group of writers (others
were Zola and Max Nordau) who espoused
the Jewish soldier’s cause. So the man who,
vindicated, was reported as broken by his
sufferings has outlived those who assailed
and those who defended him.
Charles Sinclair, the biggest trochus-
sheller in the Coral Sea, is having a look
over Sydney.. From headquarters at Thurs-
day Island his fleet ranges the seas from
New Guinea to the Barrier and down the
N.Q. coast, unloading and being re-provisioned
at island bases. During the war years the
bottom fell out of the pearl-shell market, and
the fleets were all laid up. The Japanese
set up a demand for trochus, previously
despised, and Sinclair was quick to supply
them. The Japanese kept their factories
working throughout the war.
Frank Groves’s defeat for Dandenong
(Vie.) will be a loss to the Nats, in Vic.
Assembly. Though not much of a Minister,
he was a keen Whip and a useful man in
a tussle. After the Black Sunday bush-
fires Groves had a lot to do with the dis-
tribution of the £lBO,OOO-odd subscribed for
tlie relief of sufferers. If he - were made
HUGH DENISON, born one
of the tobacco Dixsons,
nowadays also managing
director of the Sun news-
payer group: on its behalf
he has just made an offer
to buy the old Daily Tele-
graph shareholders out of
the Pictorial and the
World’s News.
chief organiser for the Nat. Fed. he would
put more life into it.
A link with Adelaide history has been
discovered by a resident of Woodbridge,
Suffolk —the name “F. Light,” twice
scratched on a mullioned window in his
dwelling. The house was originally a gram-
mar school, at which one Francis Light was
registered as a pupil in April 27, 3748. Light
subsequently entered the East India Co. s
service, and, despite bitter opposition from
the directors, added the island of Penang, got
from the Sultan of Kedah,
to its possessions. In
Penang he became the
father of William Light,
who was destined to lay
out the Holy City on its
present gridiron pattern.
The adventurous Arnold
Wienliolt, sometime Fed-
eral member for Moreton,
is on his way home from
another hunting trip in
Africa, where he collected
the D.S.O. and the M.C. in
the campaign against Let-
tow Vorbeck, now being
lionised in London. He
hoped to spend Christmas
with his family in Sydney
before returning to his
Queensland home at Kal-
bar, but he was delayed on
the long journey —he
turned aside to succor a
very sick white man eight
days’ trek off his route.
Wienliolt was a classmate
of Winston Churchill at
Harrow. He hunts lions
on foot, and has a proper
scorn for Cockney tourists
who go about Africa in
enclosed motor-trucks and
shoot their unfortunate
quarry to pieces. A lioness
killed by a party near
Livingstone had 17 bullets
in her.
Jack McJannett, of Bun-
gendore (N.S.W.), has
handed over the reins at
63. A devoted son, he
never married, and his
father—now 88 —survives
him. McJannett was in
the first Bushmen’s Contin-
gent that went to South
Africa. ‘When not away
soldiering lie ran the Bungendore mails, and
many a time took his four-horse coach across
the flooded Molonglo.
H'. E. Neal, the new Collector of Customs
in South Aus., learned his job in Sydney,
where he was posted from 1898 till 1911.
Then he had three years in London. He
knows Australian ports pretty well; since
1914 he has had experience at Melbourne,
Brisbane and Perth, where he was Collector
for Westralia.
Marshal Sir Hugh Trencliard, who is
being tipped as a likely successor to Lord
Stonehaven as Australia’s G.-G., was a
brevet-major who had seen fighting in South
and West Africa when the war-drums
sounded in 1914. One of the few army
officers who had made a hobby of flying, he
was named Commandant of the Central
Flying School, where his services were found
so valuable that he climbed to a major-
generalcy and was made a K-C-B- inside a
year. He was appointed Chief of the Air
Staff in the Armistice year and got his
baton as an air-marshal with a baronetcy in
1919. In 1927 he became Marshal of the
Royal Air Force. Trenchard is 56.
It has just come to light that Premier
McPherson gave the Queen Victoria Hos-
pital £25,000 out of his private purse in
May last to build a wing for intermediate
patients, as a memorial to his mother. A
lesser man would have made the fact known
before the election. Nearly six years ago
McPherson provided a similar sum for the
now-prized college of domestic economy in
Russell-street, Melbourne, called after his
late wife. To these gifts he has added odd
thousands for charities and the Swinburne
(Hawthorn) tech, school. McPherson holds
that Victoria has been “very good” to him,
and that it is up to him to do what he can
for the people. He may be stingy with
Treasury funds, but he is generous with his
own.
E. 11. Abell, who has just completed 50
years in the Queensland Civil Service, began
as junior clerk in the Col. Sec.’s office. His
memories of the big men of Queensland poli-
tics range from old Tom Mcllwraitli to
Hugh Nelson (last of the Shepherd Kings),
Robert Pliilp, Arthur Morgan and T. J.
Ryan. During all that time he remained in
the same office, rising to be chief clerk
and finally Immigration Agent, a posi-
tion he holds to-day. Possibly no one
in Queensland knows more of the human
side of the men who have come and gone as
his political chiefs. Certainly none have
kept a tighter lip on the subject.
Father Lawler, who passed out the other
day at 76, spent 44 years in Sydney and
the Eastern Suburbs. He was one of the
third band of Franciscans who came from
Ireland. Father Joyce, now in his eighties,
is the last of the earliest friars, who at one
time had charge of a parish extending from
Watson’s Bay to Botany Bay.
Carmichael Lyne, brother of William Lyne,
who was N.S.W. Premier and Commonwealth
Minister, has gone west at Hobart after a
long illness. He was born near Swansea, on
the east ' coast of the Speck, where the
family took up land over 100 years ago, and
educated at Horton College. All his life
was spent on the land, and Riccarton in the
Midlands, which he passed over to his son,
he made a shining example of good farming.
Lyne sat for two .terms in the House of
Assembly, and held a portfolio in the Prop-
sting Ministry. When he retired he became
president of the Farmers, Stockowners and
Orchardists, and he was a member of the
commission which divided the Speck into
municipalities. Seventeen years younger
than big-brother Bill, he was 68 when the
call came.
J. C. L. Fitzpatrick, Father of the N. S.
Wales Assembly, has had the unnerving ex-
perience of being lauded by Lang. He was
praised for having been early with his
Budgets—of course the hated Stevens is
always late with his. Fitz. and Lands-
Minister Ball entered the House together in
1895, but Ball lost his seat in 1898 and did
not come back for six years, whereas the
one interruption to Fitz.’s career lasted only
three years (1904-07). Labor members have
always had a sneaking regard for the little
journalist-politician, though he has never
spared them with tongue or pen.
Tom Wilford, who has resigned his job
as Maoriland’s Minister of Justice to become
High Commissioner in London, took silk the
other day, and Myers, C.J., who read the
patent, delivered a little homily on the duties
of a K.C. It was an active privilege, he
said, and not one to be carried into retire-
ment, and its acceptance, among other things,
involved that the holder should relinquish
practice as a solicitor. This requirement,
incorporated in Maoriland law in 1915,
deters many lawyers from changing their
stuff gowns to sleazier material, as practi-
cally every M.L. barrister is also a solicitor.
Burnett Gray, the Liberal M.L.A. for St.
Kilda (Vic), is a Wcstralian. His grand-
father and father successively owned and
kept an old-fashioned store at Gcraldton;
the father was one of the victims of a viru-
lent outbreak of pneumonic plague that
struck the seaport in 1906. It is from his
grandfather, Henry Gray,, that St. Kilda’s
member inherits his political proclivities.
Henry was known as “The Reformer” in the
days before Westralia obtained responsible
government, and was noted for being ‘agin
everything, not-
ab 1 y Imperial
a d ministration
in most of its
forms. II e
wrote volumin-
ous letters to the
papers, and de-
lighted in his
reputation and
his sobriquet.
Dr. A.C.D.
RIVETT, ex-
Rhodes scholar,
Chief Executive
Officer of the
Council for
Scientific and
Industrial
Research, recently
awarded the
Smith medal
for the most
brilliant chemical
research in
Australia during
recent years.
“Templar”: The word with which Sir
Charles Russell tripped up Pigott, the for-
ger, before the Parnell Commission was not
“hesitate” (B. 27/11/;29) but “hesitancy.”
Counsel asked the witness to write down
three other words first, “livelihood,”, “likeli-
hood” and “proselytism.” That was merely
to throw Pigott off the scent. Then he
said: “There is one word I had almost for-
gotten. Please write ‘hesitancy,’ with a
small ‘h.’ ” Piggot complied, mis-spelling
it, as he had done not only in the forged
letter to the Times but in some previous
correspondence. He made it “hesitency.”
That was the beginning of the end for
Pigott.
BALLADE OF THE UNPERM POS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wlienas, with courage soaring high,
I scan the adverts, in the Press,
Hoping deliverance is nigh
From indigence’s sad duress,
They greet me like a soft caress
(If I may be allowed the term),
But in my heart, I must confess,
I know full well no pos. is perm.
How frequently in years gone by
I hesitate to chance a guess
The bard, beguiled by some deft lie,
Hied to a post-office address,
Only to wilt in new distress
And grovel, flaccid as a worm,
In spiritual bitterness,
Finding the pos. was far from perm.
Yet who may gain who does not try?
He proudly overcomes the stress
Of life’s incessant hue-and-cry
Who, fired with visions of success,
Spurs hard across the wilderness.
In me determination’s germ
Remains implanted, none the less
Because no pos. I find is perm.
Envoy.
Prince, when, mown down like watercress,
In dotage, tranquil though infirm,
I bid farewell to mundane mess,
My final pos. must needs be perm.
N.S.W.
AHAR MULLDOON.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Turner Tom” : May I put in a word
about the most effective method of removing
small obstacles from the eye? “Flicking” any
instrument across the eyes is painful, and
sometimes embeds the steel more firmly in the
optic. Knives and razors are always danger-
ous, and quite useless for removing anything
from below the outer circumference of the
pupil. Magnets are just as useless where
pieces of emery-wheel, stone, coal or cinder
are in question. During my experience as a
workshop “eye-doctor,” in Broken Hill and
Newcastle engineering departments, I’ve
“operated” on any number of patients, and
my “instruments” —always carried in my
tool-box are pieces of a hack-saw blade,
broken into lengths of three or four inches,
WANTED TO BE BUSY TILL THE END.
“Say, boy, can you remember the first girl you ever kissed?"
“Lord, no! And I hope I shan’t have time to forget the last."
ground, and tapering away to a needle-point
at one end. This can be gripped firmly and
handled delicately upon the most sensitive
eye. ......
“Bruff”: These amateur surgeons who
operate on their fellow’s’ eyes with razors, etc.,
take more chances than they or _ their sub-
jects have any idea of. At a big hospital
where I was stationed the following routine
was insisted on: Lay the patient down —
anmstlietise with cocaine—using spotlight and
magnifying glass, locate and remove steel —
apply atropine and argyrol—wash thoroughly
advise the patient to come in the morning
and see the eye specialist. The cornea or
outer coat of the eyeball is about one-tenth
of an inch thick; that much slip and your
eye may be ruined for good.
* * * $
“Morita”: Touching the prediction of
sex (B. 4/12/’29), a few years back wise-
acres were telling us to expect a prepon-
derance of male infants as Nature’s method
of making up for the millions of men killed
in the war. If our locality gives a fair
indication, Nature is tackling the job in
earnest. Our street of ex-Diggers are stock-
ing up a future A.1.F., but they’ll be forced
to apply elsewhere for nurses. Seven fami-
lies out of eight can sport 15 sons between
them, all about school age, and the whole
mob are going their hardest to pirate the
attentions of the one and only future flapper
the combined families can boast of.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Going his rounds the other morn-
ing a Melbourne city council cleaner got the
surprise of his life
when he turned over a
4ft. tiger-snake in a
gutter in Collins-street.
This adds another to
the creatures of the
wild who have found
the fascination of the
Block irresistible. A
few years ago a cable-
man returning home
from duty in the small
hours reported seeing
a kangaroo in the same
thoroughfare. His
ve r a city languished
under a cloud for
months until it trans-
pired that a doctor
kept one of the marsu-
pials on his premises and that it had escaped
more than once.
si! :!: * *
“Shakes”: Bill was making his way home,
boozed as usual, when he met Mrs. Smith,
whose views on the liquor question were
totally opposed to Bill’s. After a vigorous
lecture on the error of his ways she finished
by telling him what would happen to him if
she were his wife. “I know what would
happen all right,” said Bill, when he could
get a word in. “y o u’d be in the cemetery
and I’d be in the waxworks.”
$ $ $ $
“Beecoy” : A German writer, who was an
officer attached to Liman von Sander’s staff
in Gallipoli in ’l5, lias lately published a
story that the German commander gained
valuable information on May 23, when there
was an armistice to bury the dead, by himself
doing duty, dressed as a Turk, at “Bombe
Sercle” (our Quinn’s Post). He was one of
those, it is said, who stood to mark the
boundary line in No Man’s Land while the
burial parties were at work. The trenches
were only 20 yards apart at Quinn’s, and I
still have recollections of a finely-built
Turkish sentry who hardly ever looked at us
and seemed oblivious of the little happenings
around him while he concentrated his atten-
tion on the trenches which stretched away to
his right and left. Whether he was Liman
or not this was the fellow we blamed for the
attack which the Turks launched against us
at Quinn’s six days later. It was such a
hot one that if the enemy had followed up
his initial success it might have meant the
end of our occupation of Anzac Cove.
* * * *
“Booraby”: A strange tale comes from
Brisbane that the skeleton of Frank Gar-
diner, the bushranger, was put up at auction
the other day, and purchased by a publican
for £2. It isn’t explained how the bones
came back, for Gardiner was shot dead in
a saloon in San Francisco, and buried there.
Though the one-time outlaw belonged to
X.S.W., he is kindly remembered in parts
of Queensland, especially about Peak Downs,
where he was known as Frank Christie.
After retiring from the bushranging profes-
sion, he opened a store and butcher’s shop
at Apis Creek, on the road to the goldfields
near Peak Downs, and the Law might
never have got on his tracks had he not
taken with him his horse Darky and a
woman known as Mrs. Brown. These were
recognised by a prying Jew, who slipped
away with the information and subsequently
claimed the reward.
“Merris”: The C.O. held that a copious
issue of hops was the best means of bring-
ing the men back to normal after a stunt,
so just before a particularly sticky affair
he wangled a lorry, and sent the padre into
Calais to buy beer for the canteen. We
went back to a camp on the edge of a big
wood after the stunt, and joy fluttered in
every heart when the canteen opened. The
queue consisted of the whole battalion armed
with empty haversacks and packs, and as
each man was served he staggered off into
the wood under a load of bottles, and was
seen no more until even.... The C.O.
smiled, the adjutant made merry, even the
Q.M. ceased for a while from lamentation.
THE FLAPPER KNOWS.
“My dear, all men are cast pretty much in the same mould."
“Yes, Mum. But some are mouldier than others."
Only tlie padre was not quite liappy. “Five
thousand bottles,” he'moaned, running bony
lingers through his dark hair, “five thousand
bottles —all sold in a couple of hours!”
* * * *
“W.1.U.” : The closing of the courthouse
at Milparinka (N.S.W.) is yet another tale
of unrealised potentialities. The imposing
stone building was opened in April, 1882,
by Charles McArthur King, _ the place, with
its three pubs and bank, being regarded as
important enough to have its own P.M.
King’s arrival must have been a godsend to
the publicans, for his _ first three working
days were occupied in hearing charges
of sly grog-selling against 20 different
individuals. There were 2000 people on Mt.
Brown goldfield, 12 miles away, and Tiboo-
burra, 25 miles away, held 5000. Now Mt.
Brown has four residents, Milparinka 11;
and Tibooburra is little more than a name.
Milparinka’s last P.M. left in 1905, since
when Broken Hill’s magistrate has heard
what few cases there were to hear.
* * * *
“J.T.”: There would be fewer objec-
tions to military saluting if some of the
minor rules and usages were better under-
stood (B. 20/11/’29). As regards civilian
forces in time of peace, saluting of officers
when merely passing
them in the street is
not essential unless
one is addressed by, or
has occasion to address
his superior in rank.
Any salute given
should of course be
returned; but if there
are several officers to-
gether it is sufficient
if the senior returns it.
On actual military
service there is little
time for rigid formali-
ties, but military men
on furlough, if in uni-
form, whilst war con-
tinu e s, may well
observe the act of cour-
tesy, except amongst
crowds. It really
means no more than
the recognition of a
comrade - in - arms.
There is not much ex-
cuse for the officer
who insists upon saiu-
tings in other circum-
stances. It might
clear up matters, so
far as the Australian
Civilian Defence forces
are concerned, if the
regulations were made
to definitely provide
that saluting off
parade is not compul-
sory hut merely desir-
able as a matter of
military courtesy
amongst comrades.
* *
“Adelaide”: S.A. Supreme Court has cut
a matrimonial tangle in a commonsense way.
(1) Husband killed the only child and got a
life sentence, but was released within a year.
(2) Wife took up with another man, and
husband obtained a divorce decree, which
was, however, set ,aside when his own mis-
conduct was proved. (3) Wife sued for
divorce. Of course, the precious old dogma
that the petitioner must come into court
with clean hands was paraded ; but the very
human Judge Parsons ruled that “to a
woman so afflicted much might be forgiven.
Public morality would not be outraged if
the Court exercised its discretion.” Decree
nisi accordingly.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: Australia isn’t the only
country where Oswald Pryor could find
Cousin Jack living as if he were in his
natural habitat. A coalmine in Borneo is
entirely staffed by Cornishmen. The men
get more work out of the lethargic coolie
than anyone else could do, but their wives
seldom succeed in adapting themselves to
the dolce far niente of tropical existence.
At an overseer’s house I once sat down to
a dinner as unlike the usual Bornean ban-
quet, which mainly comes out of tins, as
anything could be. It even included a
pasty, which, if my palate doesn’t for-
swear me, had been made according to the
prescription given by “T.P.” (B. 27/11/’29).
At the end of the repast my host informed
me that not only had his missus sacked
the Chinese cook, but every other of her
domestics except one, and had completely
lost caste with all the English women in
the community by this proceeding. Neverthe-
less, she looked hone the worse for it.
ij: 4*
“Nakli.”: In refusing to provide a haven
for the Mennonites, a German religious sect
which is being hounded from Russia, the
Canadian authorities are only profiting hy
experience. Many years ago they opened
welcoming arms to the Doukhobors, another
community of believers, whose tenets had
earned them much persecution in Czarist
Russia. The Doukhobors settled down and
multiplied on some of the choicest farming
country, but it turned out that politically
they were anarchists. They have consis-
tently refused to obey Government decrees
or pay taxes, answering every attempt to
assess them with the argument that God
owns the land and they are -the Almighty’s
chosen. A term of prison means nothing
to them. When the tax-collectors get too
importunate the men take their clothes off
by way of protest. While waiting on a rail-
way platform in Quebec on one occasion
I . was painfully shocked when an elderly
Doukhobor registered his objection to paying
a fare at the turnstile by publicly disrobing.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: Port Phillip fishermen con-
tinue to bless the Defence forces. Follow-
ing on the harvest that was obtained after
the recent big-gun, practice by the Fleet, the
air force at Point Cook conducted bomb-
ing operations on some rafts anchored about
two miles out. The Wapitis dropped 112
pounds of high explosive, and when the
practice was finished all boats in the neigh-
borhood put out, returning loaded to the
gunwmle.
* * *
“The Bailiff”: One of the second-grade
time-payment music houses of Sydney has
just thrown in the towel, and there are others
that don’t feel well. Two-thirds of their
selling is done on time-payment; but their
buying has to be done for cash. And, of
course, as they generally haven’t the cash to
pay, they have to borrow. The banks having
long ago left oft' financing them, these
t.p. traders have had to go to various motor
and other finance cos. Their charges are
nominally 10 per cent., but as the first
10 p.c. is taken out before the money is
handed over, and as repayments have to he
made monthly as instalments are collected,
the 10 p.c. is really from 18 to 20 per cent.
And as the t-.p. agreement is usually for
three years, the IS to 20 p.c. per. annum
comes to something pretty solid before the
last payment is made—if it ever is made.
Thus, even if the music-man has managed
to sell a player-piano at 100 per cent, on his
purchase price, there isn’t a great deal left
out of which to pay rent and buy boot-
leather and an occasional beer sandwich.
* * * *
“X.S.”: A too-trusting crook met an un-
expected Waterloo in Melbourne recently.
Hailing a taxi he helped a half-sozzled com-
panion into it and gave an address in one
of the outer suburbs. Later on he opened
the window and whispered to the chauffeur
that his cobber was “full of money,” and if
he drove them to a quiet place they could
go through the drunk and share the loot. The
driver nodded and pre-
sently turned up a dark lane and into a
dim courtyard. The crook hopped out expec-
tantly—into a group of policemen. The
taximan had taken his fare to Russeil-
street, where he turned out to be wanted
on one or two other charges.
* * * *
“Kir”: South Australia’s hangman is the
only member of his profession in Australia
who is a permanent employee of the State.
He is also the only executioner who is avail-
able at a fee to serve the requirements of
the other States. When W.A. had a Malay
murderer to dispose of some years ago, the
Government borrowed the noose-adjuster of
the adjoining State, and because of a respite
—due to an appeal, which was dismissed —
he got two free trips to Perth. The honor-
arium for the job was a modest tenner.
SUMMERTIME IN SYDNEY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now cicada, Sydney’s native songster, shrills
liis recitative
Maddeningly iterative, I concede, but still
his best,
While the wan Domain diurnal nnds his
modicum of journal
A more adequate nocturnal cover as he
sinks to rest.
There are apricots and peaches in the shops
(and on the beaches),
And the bar-frequenter reaches ever oftener
for beer; , , ,
And “in short,” as that deluded old
Micawber who exuded
Platitudes would have concluded,
“Summer’s here.”
Icemen dash around in plenty, days of dolce
jdr nientc,
Seasons of festina lente for the strenuous
nonce forgot,
Though terrestrial locomotion seems a foolish
sort of notion
When you might be on the ocean in a
cool and spray-splashed yacht.
Mares, the wizard of the weather, disregards
the glass’s nether
Registration altogether at the maximum
to peer;
And the flapper, when they crowd her, gives
her nose a dab of powder.
Never voice could tell you louder:
“Summer’s here.”
Now the sun makes burning placements on
the office-dweller’s casements,
And the poet sighs for basements in his
garret up above;
And the typist, to be colder, bares her arms
from wrist to shoulder,
Knowing, whether any told her so or not,
she looks a love.
Last, where legislators bicker, tempers fray
and chaps get sicker
Of each other’s claptrap quicker ev’ry
night, it would appear,
And the ebullitions fizzier, and the peaks of
insult dizzier,
While the chucker-out grows busier.
Summer’s here.
N.S.W.
T. THE. R.


“Magis” : Sea-bathing in the unde may have
been abandoned a century ago in England (B.
27/ll/’29), but it still flourishes in north-
ern Europe. Some years ago I was yacht-
ing in the beautiful Bohuslaan, of Sweden,
and happened to land on an island not far
from Marstrand. Walking across the island I
came on a sea beach and a party of women
bathing in the altogether. Round the next
headland I found some men indulging in
the same pleasing practice. After the dip
HIS SKELETON KEY.
“I suppose you thought you and George
were linked together for life!”
“Yes, and so we would have been if that skinny little blonde hadn’t turned the lock.”
all dressed, and were rowed off to a hand-
some yacht anchored in the offing. In Mar-
strand were public baths with separate divi-
sions for the sexes, but each had a hole on
the seaward side so that strong swimmers
could get out into the open. Twenty-five
years ago the same custom was in vogue
in South Australia. In the men’s division
of the sea-baths the wearing of even a pair
of V’s was distinctly unusual.
* * # *
“G.8.L.” : I classified him at first as an
American tourist, from his big-rimmed gig-
lamps, wide hat and camera case; then I
noticed that he bore on his back a small
knapsack. Stepping briskly on to my back
verandah he spoke his piece. “Say, I’m
walking round the world and have already
covered 606 miles. The International Pedes-
trians’ League doesn’t permit me to accept
any money towards my expenses except a
shilling from each householder I call upon, in
return for this leaflet containing the full
details of my itinerary. You will take the
historic souvenir, of course?” “Not on your
life,” said I; “but just wait five minutes and
I’ll join your round-the-world expedition.
Life is too dull here.” But he was already
slamming the gate.
* * * *
“Merris” : I too remember the Armistice at
Anzac in May, 1915. It followed a Turkish
attack on our trenches, in mass formation,
when only straight shooting saved us from
being pushed into the sea. The half-way
line between our trenches and the enemy s
was marked by alternate Red Cross and Red
Crescent flags, and we buried our own men
on our side of the line and handed over the
others to the Turks when possible. They
reciprocated. The rival burial parties were
soon on the best of terms with one another,
and Smithers, one of the officers sent out from
our lines, was seen swapping cigarettes and
lies with a dapper little Turkish officer.
“Who’s your pal?” some one asked on his
return. “Oh, that was Abdul,” he replied,
without blinking an eyelash. “You remem-
ber Abdul, the guide who took us through
the Mouskey and the mosques in Cairo.”
**■ * * •
“C.Q.”: An echo of the roaring days was
heard when a hole suddenly yawned in the
middle of Queen’s-parade, not a mile from
the heart of Melbourne. The
cavity was estimated to be 100
feet deep, and a procession of
drays was casting spoil into its
maw for eight hours afterwards,
160 tons being required to fill it.
Some of the gold rushes of the
’sixties did not get farther than
Collingwood, and there are re-
cords of shafts being sunk in
many suburbs. The subsidence
occurred near the intersection
with Gold-street, which suggests
that somebody found “indica-
tions” in the neighborhood.
“Strict Veg.”: There is an interesting
story behind some wattle-trees in the Mel-
bourne Botanical Gardens. The seeds from
which they sprang were collected by one
Robert Brown, a botanist who was with
Flinders in 1800. The great navigator took
them to England, where they were preserved
as specimens in a museum. A few subse-
quently returned to this country and Prof.
Ewart, of the Melbourne Uni., treated them
with hot water and planted them. In due
course they germinated and the seedlings
were transferred to their present site in
the Gardens. The hard outer covering of the
seeds had preserved the life-force of the
plant for upwards of a century.
:J: * * *
“Lao-dali”: I also join issue with John
Dailey (B. 13/11/’29) over his thesis that
cleaniy nations are necessarily decadent.
When China was at her highest point of
imperial glory under the Great Khans,
Marco Polo reported that in Hangchow
there were “many baths attended by ser-
vants of both sexes, to perform the offices of
ablution for the men and women w T ho fre-
quent them, and who from childhood have
been accustomed at all times to wash in
cold water, which they reckon as highly con-
ducive to good health.” In addition, there
were warm baths for strangers who, from
not being habituated to it, could not bear
the shock of cold water. All w T ere in the
habit of washing their persons, especially
before meals. The less said about the
modern Chinaman’s notions of sanitation the
better. Even my head clerks followed the
national custom of putting on one thin
cotton garment after another as the season
grew colder, peeling them off one by one as
the summer approached, the recovery of the
original first garment being celebrated by a
modest sponging. Now that China is begin-
ning to get her self-respect back, however,
baths are being b'uilt in all directions. The
Japanese, never having lost their self-
respect, have never abandoned their daily
broiling.
“Johnny H.” : Most of the jokes they play
on the apprentice are old, but here’s a new
one. I was helping a fitter when he dropped
his spirit-level and broke it. He sent me
to the store for q spare bubble. The chase
that ensued took me all through the works.
I wound up on the general-manager’s carpet,
and it was the great man who explained
to me, with Scottish exactness, the nature
and functions of bubbles in spirit-levels.
:-c :Jc :,k j|j
“Mudros” : There was one man at Anzac
who went from private to lieutenant and
back again to private, all within 24 hours.
This was Darky, the biggest scallywag in
the battalion,. A clerk at Divvy H.Q. had
inadvertently commissioned him by putting
PUTTING HER IN HER PLACE.
“After I’d sung my encore I heard a gentleman frorn one of the papers call out “Fine!
Finel’”
“Dear me! And did you have to pay it?”
the wrong initials before a man’s name in
Orders, and when Darky heard of it he
ticked off the company sergeant-major for
not saluting him. In vain his O.C. pointed
out that a mistake had been made; Darky
refused to demote himself, and when it was
done in Orders next day he threatened to
appeal to the King, because they’d reduced
him to the ranks without a court-martial.
* * * *
“T.P.”: The committee of the Victorian
Blind Asylum , recently placed on record
its appreciation of the tender care bestowed
by tramway men on sightless passengers. It
was a well-deserved tribute, and the tender-
ness is not confined to the blind. Yester-
day, in a crowded street, I saw a conductor
help a crippled old woman to the footwalk
while the motorman slipped out to engineer
a blind passenger to safety. You may see
the same solicitude on the railways. Duty,
of course —but there are few officials who
neglect a chance to do more than their mere
duty even at peak periods.
* * *
“Mells”: Surnames which must have a
qualifying affix for the proper identification
of their proprietors (B. 4/12/’29) include
some of the rarest as well as the commonest.
I can find no Bill in “Who’s Who” and not
half a dozen in the Sydney Directory. But
one of the infinitesimal clan figured in big
cricket the other day, and it at once became
obvious that he needed a Christian name
far more urgently than any Smith or Jones
could have done.' It was impossible for the
dailies to say that Bill came on to field (he
w T as actually twelfth man) so the reporters
gave him his baptismal handle, as high-sound-
ing as his patronymic is homely. He was
the only player on either side to get the
distinction.
* *
“S.T.S.” ; As to consulting—by broadcast
(B. 30/10/’29) or otherwise —the ther-
mometer. I have never had one of the
accursed things inside; my house, and I am
convinced this is sound policy.
Through many a hot spell I
don’t say we have been cooler,
but certainly we have felt less
hot than if somebody had con-
tinually been saying, “Look
what the mercury’s up to!” One
does one's best for the body in
a heat-wave; why not give the mind a
chance, too?
* * * *
“Skeats”: The Anglo-Saxon tongue is a
sore trial to the artless foreigner. The other
day I found our family baker sizzling with
indignation ; he confided to me that lie had
just had a dust-up with “some sort of
nigger,” who had “tried a lot of funny busi-
ness on him,” the result being that the dusky
humorist had been thrown from the shop and
had departed vociferating in an unknown
tongue. The sequel, which I heard later,
came when the expelled one returned with
another Syrian as interpreter, and cleared
things up. The first Asiatic had been ordered
by the doctor to get some sweetbreads for
an ailing wife, and the little English he had
took him to a baker’s shop. Doughie, on
hearing the amazing request, thought his leg
was being pulled and took action accordingly.
* * *
“Uramao”: It happened at Hokitika, on
M.L.’s wild and woolly west coast, in the
days before an examination in the elementary
principles of law had to be passed by candi-
dates for the .police force. A court case
was on and the inspector asked the constable
to get “Roscoe on Evidence.” The officer
promptly dashed away to an adjacent pub
to bring the proprietor, whose name was
Roscow. The barman reported that Bung
was in the barber’s next door. Presenting
himself in the saloon the John Hop almost
dragged the publican out of the chair with
“Come on, Roscow, the Court's held up;
they want you to give evidence.” And with
his face half stubble, half lather, the bo-
wildered drink-dispenser was haled before a
magistrate as bewildered as himself, until the
situation was explained,
* * . '
“Lao-dali”: The ease with which bogus
war decorations can be obtained was shown
by a recent case in Melbourne. A man went
to a local manufacturing firm, claimed to
be a major in the Air Force, and asked for
miniature replicas of war distinctions for
dress wear. Ilis modest requirements were
the D. 5.0., 0.8. E., M.M., M.C., 1914-15 star,
Britisli General Service, Victory medal,
French Croix de Guerre and V.D. The firm
remarked that it seemed a tall order for one
man, but executed the commission. The
hero might still be proudly displaying at
suburban hops a chest like a jeweller’s win-
dow if the cheque he tendered in payment
had not been dishonored.
* * * *
“Cadonga” : In a Queensland police court
the other day a newly-arrived immigrant
was charged with knocking down a farmer
and robbing him of two shillings. The
accused admitted both charges, but pleaded
in extenuation that he was starving, and
the cockie had refused to give him food some,
hours previously. He further admitted that
he had picked up the packet of lunch that
had fallen from the other man’s pocket dur-
ing the scuffle, but denied having converted
it to his own use. “Yet you say that you
were starving?” commented the magistrate.
The prisoner hastened to explain his appa-
rent inconsistency. “It was Friday, yer
Worship, and yer wouldn’t catch me eatin’
corned beef of a Friday,” he declared virtu-
ously.
*!* * * *
“Ogsblud”: The biter sometimes gets
bitten when it comes to sending newchums
on impossible errands. I remember some
years ago the foreman of a gang of painters
working on a terrace in Newtown (Sydney)
sent the new lad, a very verdant specimen,
to the near-by paintsliop for a tin of paint,
striped red and green. The lad very con-
scientiously committed the details to memory,
and disappeared. The gang’s grins dis-
appeared, too, when he returned with three
tins, respectively containing red, white and
green paint. He also brought a message
from “the bloke in the shop” to the effect
that “ ’E’s outta striped paint but ’e knoo
that smart chaps like you would know ’ow
to mix ’em.”
“Pinjarra”: There can hardly have been
an Australian colony where the dispropor-
tion between the sexes was so marked as in
Westralia a quarter of a century after its
foundation. In 1853 there were three males
to every one female; two years later the
ratio was almost ten to one. Public meet-
ings held in Perth and Fremantle advocated
the introduction of female convicts as the
simplest remedy, and a resolution was actu-
ally passed by the Legislative Council recom-
mending the experiment. But the Imperial
Government jibbed—probably on account of
Tasmania’s bitter experiences in this connec-
tion —and the settlers were left to even up
matters as best they could.
* * * *
“Biltong”: A cable mentions that one
Vorbeck, whom Smuts pursued about East
Africa but was never able to catch, is the
first German general to be entertained in
London since the war—he attended a re-
union of East African campaigners and
fraternised with his old antagonist. Which
recalls that not very long after the close of
'the Boer War, Botha, Delarey and De Wet
all went to Londen and were not only enter-
tained but cheered by chivalrous crowds and
generally given a royal time. But only the
first responded to the extent of burying the
hatchet for ever. The elusive De Wet took
up arms against the Empire and the Union
in. the Great War, and Delarey (the cap-
turer of Methuen) was deeply implicated in
treason when he was more or less accident-
ally shot.
* $ * *
“J. 8.” : At Singapore in 1915 I saw an
aged and wealthy Indian named Mansour
being tried on the rare charge of high
treason. Although the judges were military
officers, the accused was defended by a
barrister and the ordinary laws of evidence
were observed. The charge, according to the
prosecution, had been laid because the
prisoner’s opened correspondence disclosed
that he had tried to induce Turkish warships
to bombard Singapore! I left before the
case was over, but I read, long afterwards,
that Mansour had been found guilty and
duly executed.
FOREIGN COMPETITION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ‘This sort of thing is becoming very common
among Australians in London,’ said a Scotland Yard
detective when told of another (Australian) victim
of confidence men. Mr. , of Glenhuntly, Mel-
bourne, casually met a man, etc.” —Argus cable.
It was a lean and hungry man
Whose wrath was plain to see,
A wild, excited partisan,
Who opened speech with me,
As down he sat and straight began
Ere I could rise and flee.
He drew the cutting from his hat
And read it clear and slow,
Then viciously and far he spat,
As far as maids can throw,
And “What,” he said, “d’you think of that?”
I owned I did not know.
“I’ll tell you, then.” His words were hot,
A quiver shook his frame.
MA scandal’s what it is, that’s what!
A cryin’, crimson shame!
These foreign crooks should all be shot,”
He hissed with face gflame.
“To think of good Australians gone
So many thousand miles,
And only to be put upon
By these outlandish wiles”—
A righteous indignation shone
All over him—“it riles!”
“It’s true,” I said. “They may have slaved
Through misery and drought;
What perils, too, they may have braved,
What comforts done without,
Just to be robbed of all they’d saved—
It’s tough on them, no doubt!”
“On them!” he snarled, as one who seeks
An epithet malign
Enough to fit a crime that reeks
To Heaven, for a sign
Looks up, and then despah'ing speaks:
“Unpatriotic swine!”
And as I stared in frank dismay,
“On them!” he grumbled yet;
“ ‘Australia first,’ is what they say
But very soon forget;
With mugs awake and mugs away,
It’s me that’s in the wet!”
It was a lean, and furtive man
That lingered there and cursed.
I gasped; his patriotic plan
Sudden upon me burst:
lie wants to see “mugs” (if he can)
Drained in Australia first!
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


VICHY i
mEm
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
DO YOU WANT TO EARN MORE MONEY?
w
Men of ability and average education who wish to get out of the rut and enter
a profession where there is a certainty of employment are advised to send for
our Prospectus. Here is one profession where the supply is not equal to the
demand. NOW is the time to begin.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Head Off
Brisbane.
THE EQUITABLE LIFE
Assurance Company of Australasia, Ltd.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Office: 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Tlie Company issues every variety of Probate, Whole
Life, Endowment, Children’s Endowment, Combined
Benefits (All Sicknesses) and Personal Accident Policy.
Policies provide for payment of Hospital Expenses in
lump sum or partial disability, and for cessation of
premiums on total disability. Secure full particulars from
any of the Company’s offices.
FREDK. LEVY, Managing Director.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Itos Majesty's ‘‘Show Boat”
“Lombardi, Ltd.”
TB Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
“Hold Everything”
New Comedt “Brewster’s Millions”
s “Clowns in Clover”
i' VOl ; T Vaudeville
S GYT 8 Movies and Talkies
hTATB Movies and Talkies
Jewish Opera at Sydney Palace: Stalls,
lo ; dress-circle, 12; gods, crowded. Scotland
tor ever!
* #
When The Bulletin looked in on two
Christmas kids’ shows in Sydney last week—
one _at Anthony Horderns’, the other at
David Jones’ —each would have had to
write its “House Full” notice with a wool-
press. They have one compelling advantage
over the stage shows—they’re free. But
there are other manifest merits, which can
be grouped into the single fact that they
are entertainments for kids, and packed
masses of small fry enjoy them accordingly.
Doubtless it was the gradual degenerating
of the stage panto, into a crude entertain-
ment for adults that made these shop shows
possible, and they get better every year.
There is nothing very elaborate about them;
they score through their utter simplicity.
They are the sort of show that an adult can
Pass with a sniff, but there is no . question
about how the youngsters take to them.
The Hordern offering was panto.; a pretty,
imaginative show, with a king, queen, prince,
jester, sprites, etc. The etc. did not include
a dame pulling off his skirts; no crass
crudity whatever. The players were good,
and the piece was so charming that its ending
in a spasm of undisguised advertising came
as a shock. The Land of Wishes and the
rest of it had looked dinkum ; to be shown
the material edifice where the wishes could
be satisfied was no doubt good business, but
it knocked a bit out of the drama. Not that
the small fry minded that. On the con-
trary, it was a touch of realism that seemed
to appeal strongly to their commercial in-
stincts. It’s all right to believe in fairy-
land, but the place next door has its points.
The Jones house pins its faith to the
circus intimate. It is a show of color, mostly
red, white and blue stripes. There are clowns,
a cow, monkeys and the rest of them. When
the show is over there are motor rides round
the sacred ring, with clowns in person super-
vising the queues, and a circling guard of
mothers seeing that their representatives get
BERTHA BELMORE, with “Show Boat” at Sydney Majesty’s.
a fair spin. The Bulletin learnt in its
youth that any woman you care to speak
to in a tote queue will tell you even her
dreams. A variant of the hysteria prevails
around the shop circus ring. Example:
The Bulletin : “They seem to be enjoying
themselves, don’t they?”
Perfect Stranger Woman: “Yes, we never
had anything like this when we were young,
did we? That little boy there has six sisters.
.... John, it’s your turn.”
Small Boy (getting into motor) ; “Good-o,
Auntie!”
P.S.W. (to Bulletin) : “Six sisters. He’s
been brought up in cottonwool. And
[vehemently] it’ll do him the world of good
if he gets a spill out of that car!”
* * *
The Wilkie showing at Newtown Majes-
tic ended with deadly suddenness. Up till
early, last week it was expected that, in
addition to putting on “Lear” and other
seldom exploited Shakspooks, the company
would root, out a whole string more old-
time comedies. The season opened well and
went along nicely for a week or two, but
the falling towards the end left acres
of theatre looking like vacant lots on. the
Nullarbor. Wilkie pushes on to the Speck,
probably muttering “Zounds!” about the
talkies.
At the farewell show on Saturday night,
however, he promised to return some time
next year. He finished off with the sort
of audience that producers dream about —
large and enthusiastic. There was no reason
why it should have been otherwise. Tin 1
offering, “Merry Wives.” was admirably done.
Wilkie makes a good Falstaff, Alexander
Marsh is a first-rate Ford, and the Mistress
Ford and Mistress Page of Miss Hunter-
Watts and Lorn a Forbes are in the spirit of
the comedy. Setting and dressing in the
usual Wilkie manner, and a support the
strength of which reveals the excellence of
the company.
The Speck show 'begins at Hobart in the
New Year, and items include the old comedy
“The Jealous Wife” and the first part of
“Henry 1V.,” both of which had been down
for Sydney presentation.
* ¥ *
Those who have avoided being doped into
accepting tosh as the real article in theatri-
cal fare should welcome Melbourne Reper-
tory’s presentation of Thackeray’s “The
Rose and the Ring,” having a mere week’s
run at the Playhouse. The Repertorians
give a splendid performance of the delightful
fairy story, making the most of the Gilbertian
digs at Royalties and Governments.
Into Thackeray’s story of the magic rose
and ring that brought beauty to the wearers,
with the fairy Blackstick straightening out
things nicely among usurping monarchs and
rightful heirs, Harris Deans fitted the neces-
sary points to make a stage adaptation, and
Desmond Carter dropped in some fascinating
lyrics tunefully linked up in catchy song
and dance by Robert Cox. The costuming
of the panto, is as refreshingly irresponsible
as the Royal menu of eggs for breakfast
every day ’cept
Sunday, when
sausages held the
bi'll. Producer
Clewlow followed
Thackeray’s own
sketches for the
wardrobe,; so any
critic endeavor-
ing to locate
periods is likely to
finish in an asy-
lum. The Reper-
tory director didn’t
attempt to vie with
J.C.W. elaborate-
ness of setting} but
with effective cur-
tains and bits of
scenery cleverly
suggested gorgeous
interiors and even
a forest.
Lindsay Biggins
conducts the string
orchestra and
pupils of Dorothy
Gladstone turn
into a bevy of
graceful fairies. H.
N. _ Gregory, as
King Valoroso,
makes an admir-
able panto, royalty,
with Ruby May an
equally successful
consort Queen
Emma. Joyce
Turner, a s
their daughter,
Princess Angelica,
and Betty Rae, the
amorous Countess
Gruffanuff, show a
keen comedy sense.
So does Robert
Guthrie as Prince
Bulbo. Charming
vocally are Nell
Taylor (Princess Rosalba) and Phyllis
Clarke (Blackstitch) ; and Lennox Brewer
warbles his love songs well in the role of
Prince Giglio. Panto, honors are also due to
Dan Clifton. He is the lion that purrs upon
the Princess Rosalie instead of devouring her.
* * *
Jimmie Josser, who off stage is Ernie
Lotinga, comes to the last of his wanderings
through melodrama and farce in “House
Full ’ at Melbourne Tivoli. The season
closes on December 17. Lotinga can be so
funny without; being vulgar that it is a pity
he bothers about thin ice, which, in addition
to tasting sickly, is unpardonably out of
date. The Tiv. shuts up till Boxing Day,
when George Wallace will stage the musi-
comedy, “Me and My Gal.”
x X x
There was plenty of vigor in the playing of
John Simons at his Melbourne Assembly
Hall recital last week. The youthful
pianist’s effort
places him high
among the brilliant
ones the University
Conse rvatorium
has turned out.
His handling of
the Liszt Sonata
in B minor had
power and decision
and a certain dra-
matic sense. There
was also a repose
in the slower pas-
sages usually found
only in a much
more matured
Play e r. The r e
was an evenness
about his work
altogether. H i s
facile technique
carried him suc-
cessfully through
Gavotte and Varia-
tions of Rameau-
Leschetizky, the
Mozart Fantasie in
iC minor, and some
Ravel and Chopin.
Lorna Trist added
the orchestral sup-
port of the .second
piano to the Caesar
Franck Les Djinns.
A sterling per-
formance.
At Sydney Uni.
Con. on Saturday
night Roland Fos-
ter’s pupils let
themselves loose on
bits from the tune-
ful operas, and as
he has a lot of
pupils and there’s
a lot of tuneful
operas it was a
crowded programme. If it hadn’t been for
the business-like celerity with which per-
formers stepped forward the audience
wouldn’t have got home before the milk.
Out of a score of nice voices Nora Hill
gets good marks for enunciation, Ruth
Portrate for vim and Raymond Beatty for
timbre. The male choral singing was neat
and carefully balanced. Dorcas McClean, a
12-year-old violinist, pupil of Gerald Walenn,
played the finale of one of Wieniawski’s most
florid concertos with the aplomb of a veteran.
There were also part-songs and glees, and
the accompanists, Charlotte Mills and Daisy
Mangan, who worked in relays, were a help
to all.
* * *
Laughter and tears split a soda, so to
speak, at Sydney Puller’s on Saturday night.
It was the farewell performance of Frank
O’Brian’s Revellers, who have clicked decis-
ively with Sydney audiences. A special “by
request” programme was given, and the
capable cast was improved by the inclusion
of George Wallace, whose work opposite
“Mrs. O’Brian’s Son” was calculated to draw
giggles from a grindstone. The theatre is
closed for a fortnight for renovations, open-
ing on Boxing Day with the Lotinga Revue
co. from Melbourne.
* * *
Another “theatre intimate” sprang into
life in Sydney on Saturday night—the Com-
munity Playhouse at Darlinghurst. The
opening bill included “Echoes,” by Adrian
Consett Stephen, an Australian who went west
at the war in 1918, and it is the objective
of promoter Carrie Tennant to stage Aus-
tralian work while anything of quality offers.
Also, budding playwrights can use the
theatre to try out their efforts. Between
times things of such quality as Tchekhof’s
“The Seagull” will be put on.
* * *
In spite of the fact, that the first bill was
chiefly a picture that had already had a
hearing in a George-street house, Sydney
Empire began its career as a movie show on
Saturday with good promise of success. Some
curious trick of acoustics is in its favor.
Though it was designed for flesh and blood
musicomedy, it was often difficult to hear
the uncanned voices. Several imported
singers that this Showman first heard there
amazed him with the strength of their output
when later on he heard them in other
theatres. The talkie voices don’t suffer so.
In the leading offering, “Behind that Cur-
tain.” the voices come through as crisply , as
anything in the talkie line heard so far.
Haymarket lias “This Is Heaven” ; Regent,
“The Last of Mrs. Cheyney”; St. James,
“Show Boat” ; Lyceum, “Three Live Ghosts” ;
State, “Jealousy” and “The Flying Marine” ;
Prince Edward, “Why Bring That Up?”
* X X
The great run of Lombari, Ltd., continues
at 'Sydney Cri. It will keep “Journey’s
End” in the background until January 4.
Carillo and co. will pack up for Maoriland
on Jan. 2. It will probably depend on the
reception they get whether they -will double
back to Melbourne. On present arrange-
ANN PENN, English impressionist, in “Clowns in Clover” at
Melbourne King’s.
ments Carillo is due back in U.S.A. about the
end of April, so the Melbourne season, if
any, would have to be brief.
The costly “Show Boat” goes off the
Majesty’s waterway this month (20th) to
be replaced by a “Desert Song” revival, with
Fred Bentley providing the humor. The
same company will put on “New Moon”
when the sheik show piece wears out its wel-
come. Muriel Starr is due back at the
Palace round about Christmas. She did well
there on her last appearance a year or two
ago ; nothing has done so since.
The oldtimers are farewelling at Sydney
Opera House to make room for panto.,
“Babes in the Wood,” which will open on
Boxing Day and be played only in the after-
noons. Alfred Frith, with a farce-comedy
company, will probably fill in the evenings.
“Money from Plome” is the Frithian title.
Starting date, December 21.
* * *
The end of the Nellie Bramley run at
Brisbane Royal looms up, though the latest
offering, “The Cheerful Liar,” went as well
as the rest of the remarkably long season.
The run ends after the next offering, “Fine
Feathers,” and Miss Bramley, who ought to
be in a position to wear a lot of ’em, retires
to let her health build up again. In addition
to having to prepare herself for a new role
every week, the energetic lady has lately
been conducting sundry charity shows. Bris-
bane will badly miss her weekly offering.
* * *
Monty Brewster’s cares regarding the
flittering away of £500,000 come to an end
at Melbourne Comedy on December 20. Next
Night Leon Gordon will stalk in “Murder on
the Jsecond Floor,” with the valuable assist-
ance of Ada Reeve.
“Spot” : Add personal items. Claud Flem-
ming, who went to the U.S.A. about three
years ago to study motion-picture production
with a view to making pictures in Australia,
is now firmly connected with the Hollywood
industry.
“Ade”: A cinema question has nearly
wrecked the new Electoral Bill in S.A. Par-
liament. The Assembly passed a clause pro-
hibiting election ads. on the screen, but the
Leg. Council threw it out. At a conference
it was adopted as amended, “between the
issue of writs and polling day,” leaving the
question open most of the time, but blocking
it just when likely to be most desired.


“....Fortunately we had some
WOLFE'S SCHNAPPS in the house.”
(As good for men as for women)


R°NE.°
DIARY
FOR 1930
Now Ready,
Has
a Page
for
Every Day
Cloth
Bound, Gold
Lettered.
Size, 91 x 6-|-
IDEAL
XMAS
GIFT
Price 10/-
Post, 1/- extra.
ŵ
RONEO CO. Ltd., 21 Hunter St., Sydney.
ẁ
PIONEER
BELTING
Every inch of Pioneer Belting is
made under the watchful eye of an
expert, who is responsible for the
thoroughness of its manufacture.
By the very nature of the tests
imposed on it, Pioneer Belting assures
greater security against breakdown.
Durability and low maintenance cost,
over a period of 70 years, have won
for Pioneer Belting a most enviable
reputation.
PIONEER Leather Belting
MADE AND GUARANTEED BY
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
Pioneer House, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY (our only city address).
The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company, Limited.
Founded 1886.
Assets at 31st December, 1928,
£18,792,732
of which 84% was represented by
Public Securities.
The M.L.C. Charter is constituted to
admit of the issue of policies to meet
the necessities of every class, every age.
every purse. Its range of contracts is
unsurpassed for diversity and liberality,
and the fulfilment of every contract is
guaranteed by the Company's capital
and its ever-increasing assurance Funds.
CASH SURPLUS in the Ordinary
Branch for the year 1928, £624,370.
ARTHUR EEDY,
Managing Director.
Head Office: Citizens’ Building, Castlereagh
Street and Martin Place. Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bank of New South Wales.
To Ke-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
*£ £ £ £
1919.. 579,48-2 10 p.c. = 395,158 184,324 3,340,370
1920.. 042,852 10 „ „ 463,839 179,013 3,519,383
1921.. 753,341 124 „ „ 621,801 131,540 3,650,923
1922.. 098,124 10 „ „ 521,009 176,515 3,827,438
1923.. 825,082 10 „ „ 597,981 227,101 4,054,539
1924.. 840,533 10 ~ „ 600,000 246,833 4,301,372
1925.. 979,383 12* „ „ 750,000 229,383 4,530,755
1926.1,099,559 12* „ „ 750,000 349,559 4,880,3 U
Bank of Western Australia absorbed.
Net reserves taken over, £600,851.. 5,481,165
1927. 1,226,247 12* p.c.= 886,797 339,150 5,820,615
1928. 1,184,94.3 12* „ „ 936,905 248,038 6,068,653
1929.. 994,825 10 „ „ 750,000 244,825 6,313,478
Foreseeing a drop in security values, fol-
lowing the fall in prices of our chief pro-
ducts, the board decided to conserve the
hank’s resources, and the 24 p.c. bonus which
had gone out with the 10 p.c. div. for four
years was not repeated. Also the year’s
profit was written at £190,118 short of
the 1928 figure. But it does not follow that
the hank actually earned less last year than
it did in the previous terra ; indeed it should
have earned more, because at the close of
accounts it had an extra £8,074,592 advanced
while it had gathered only an additional
£1,541,497 of deposits, cash and low interest-
bearing securities being drawn upon for
most of the difference.
The fact, of course, is that the profits
declared by a bank are only an estimate.
Bad and doubtful accounts have to be
provided for, and how bad they are and
how doubtful, and therefore how ranch they
will actually cost the bank, can only be
guessed at until the final realisation or
liquidation.
One result of the board’s action in cutting
out the- bonus was to further depress bank
stocks generally. The B.N.S.W. £2O shares,
which had advanced steadily from £3l eight
years ago to £5l 10s. in Sept, last, had
eased to £47 10s. before the announcement,
following which they fell sharply to £4l, hut
have since firmed at £42 10s. The immediate
return at the latter figure is only 4.7 p.c. on
a 10 p.c. div. basis, or 5.8 p.c. should the
2} p.c. bonus be restored, which the market
obviously considers probable.
To what extent, if any, the present depres-
sion is likely to deepen it is impossible to
say. It lias been caused by over-borrowing
and over-spending accompanied by a run
of good average seasons and high prices and
the recent stringency in the London money
market. But the still more recent easing of
the American Federal Reserve Bank rate to
44 p.c., followed by a drop to 54 p.c. in the
Bank of England rate, has relieved much of
the anxiety of a month or so ago. Locally
manufacture is beginning to Jiven under a
stronger tariff, and, in some areas, recent-
rains have improved the seasonal outlook.
The trouble on the Northern coalfields still
drags on; but when it does end it now
seems certain that the selling price of coal
will be reduced, and that is going to mean a
brisker trade. There is still much gloom
in the picture and the early months of
next year will be strenuous to all and pain-
ful to many; but there are distinctly brighter
patches in the outlook. The directors of
the Wales, being wise men, realise that much
of what now looks like profit may turn
out to be loss; so they strengthen the bank’s
shock absorbers, the inner reserves. Inci-
dentally, when they bought the business of
their old friend the Western Australian
Bank, in 1927, well over a quarter of a
million was put out of sight.
As usual you can hear amid the lamenta-
tions the cry that the bank is making more
than a fair thing and therefore, in view of
the arrival of a Federal Labor Government
trying to hide some of it. These critics
overlook the fact that the year’s dividend
was paid on £7,500,000 of share capital
only, whereas it was earned by that capital
plus £6,313,478 of visible and a substantial
amount of invisible reserves, all of which
belong to shareholders, and which have been
gradually built up since tin- old co-partnery
closed its existence in 1850. Last year’s
declared net profit was 13.3 p.c. on average
capital compared with 15.8, 17.3 and 18.3
p.c. back to 1926, but it was only 7.2 p.c.
on capital and reserves combined as against
8.7 p.c. and 9.5 p.c. in the two preceding
terms. Then it needs to be remembered
that, besides their own capital, called and
uncalled, shareholders were guaranteeing the
return of £66,056,052 of deposits. That is a
business involving large risks, as many a
bank shareholder discovered in the ’nineties.
Nobody can be expected to take that risk
for nothing.
This next comparison shows the extent
to which the bank is trading with this money
of other people:—
Notes. Bills, etc. Deposits.
1900 .. .. £890,837 £2,807,549 £20,987.103
1910 .. .. 1,281.468 4,061,568 31,808,365
1915 .. .. 369,481 9,729.074 40,202,97 S
1920 . . . . 832,882 10,049,549 50,068.085
1924 .. .. 481,090 8,610,135 52,396,570
1925 .. .. 535,020 9,093,185 57,070,095
1926 . . . . 592.036 8,719,031 58,587,508
1927 . . . . 673,455 8,857,199 61,554,635
1928 . . . . 633,262 7,200,130 64,514,555
1929 .. .. 584,091 7,284,445 66,056,052
The comparatively small growth in deposits
and acceptances reflects the generally-duller
conditions. The accounts do not separate
fixed from free deposits, but latest quarterly
banking averages show that over 62 p.c. of
the lot was interest-bearing. The shrinkage
in the note-circulation was on account of
Maoriland business.
But the bank’s greatest service to the
community is not as a borrower, but as
a lender:—
Liquid Assets. Advances. Premises.
1900 .. ..£11,941,272 £15,528,146 £650,000
1910 . . . . 18,578,215 22,628,076 730,000
1915 .. .. 30,040,334 25,734,765 825,000
1920 .. .. 29.289,187 39,425,089 820,000
1924 .. .. 27,850,352 43,208,816 880,000
1925 .. .. 33,972,945 42,676,111 880,000
1926 .. .. 30,181,742 48.017,14 S 880,00 U
1927 .. .. 30,191,678 53,408.839 1,100,000
1928 . . .. 33,713,232 51,353,368 1,225,000
1929 .. .. 27,047,606 59,427,960 1,450,000
The leap in advances shows the extent to
which the Wales came to the assistance of
clients during a difficult period. It is here
that mischief is likely to creep in; hence
the inner reserves already referred to. At
Sept. 30 advances had mounted to 89.9 p.c. of
the deposits compared with 79.6 p.c. and 86.7
p.c. at the two preceding balances.
During the year cash and public securities
were drawn upon for over £6.000,000: —
4928. 1929.
Coin, bullion, cash balances
and Australian notes .. £15,271,586 £11,180,804
Other notes .. .. .. 14,397 12,245
Short-call money .. .. 700,000 1,920,000
Treasury bills .. .. 2,000,000
Government securities . . 9,940,441 7,932,563
Municipal and other securities 461,229 394,641
Bills receivable . . . . 4,668,502 4,839,890
Bank balances .. .. 657,077 767,463
£33,713,232 £27,047,606
At the close of accounts 36.5 p.c. of the
total liabilities to the public was held liquid
as against 46.6 p.c. and 42.4 p.c. at the two
preceding balances. The position in this
respect is expected to improve presently. The
bank was holding only £5 7s. of the public’s
money for every £1 of its own funds, whereas
the figure was £6 12s. three years ago ; that
does not suggest there is any immediate
need for more capital.
During the term £225,000 was added to
the book value of premises, mainly on
account of the new head-office building, the
front portion of which is expected to take
another three years to complete.
Carlton and United Breweries, Ltd.
, Dividends
Pref. Ord. To Re- Nominal
June, Profit. 7 p.c. 7 p.c. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1919.. 128,814 7,000 70,000 49,314 354,588
10 p.c.
1920.. 135,302 7,000 100,000 25,802 380,390
7i p.c.
1921.. 149,884 7,500 100,000 39,884 420,274
10 p.c.
1922.. 257,992 10,000 100,000 145,492 565,766
15 p.c. 15 p.c.
1923.. 253,811 15,000 150,000 86,311 652,077
1924.. 274,115 15,000 150,000 106,615 758,692
Share premiums, £25,000 .. 783,692
1925.. 298,405 30,000 168,750 97,155 880,847
16J p.c. 16 7 f p.c.
1926.. 410,260 32,500 284,375 93,385 974,232
174 p.c. 174 p.c.
1927.. 439,521 35,000 306,250 98,271 1,072,503
1928.. 445,920 35,000 306,250 104,670 1,177,173
1929.. 422,673 35,000 306,250 81,423 1,258,596
This is the big operating concern which
amalgamated the interests of the Carlton,
Castlemaine, Foster, Shamrock, McCrackens
and Victoria breweries in 1907. It paid
£BOO,OOO for goodwill, etc., and for many
years this item overshadowed the accounts.
It still stands at the original figure, but is
over £68,000 less than the total net profits
for the last two years. As late as 1919
the div. was only 7 p.c., but meantime much
of the froth had been displaced by surplus
earnings invested in solid revenue-producing
assets, and progress has since been rapid.
Declared net profits more than doubled
during the five years to the close of accounts
in 1924, reaching a juicy 24.9 p.c. on aver-
age capital. In the following year the co.
tightened its grip upon the trade and hastened
its development by welding the hotel
and brewing interests of the very profitable
Melbourne Co-operative, Fitzgerald’s (Castle-
maine) and Cohn’s (Bendigo) into the busi-
ness. These purchases added £850.000 to
paid capital, raising it to £1,950,000, the
present figure.
Last year gross trading profits (£451,299)
dropped £7SIS, and rents, etc. (£75,848)
were down £4BBB. On the other hand exes.
(£104,474) were £10,544 heavier, so the
slip in the net result was £23,247. Of
course, the general trade depression did the
co. no good, but the slide in the figures is
probably mainly due to competition. A new
concern, the Richmond Brewery, recently set
up in Melbourne to make and distribute
bottled beer at a lower price than was
quoted for the C.U.B. product. However,
the combine is strongly equipped to meet
opposition. Last year’s £422,GTS of profit
was 21.6 p.c. on capital compared with
22.8, 22.5, 21 and 22.5 p.c. back to 1925,
so the 171 p.c. div., which has gone out for
the last 31 years, was repeated with comfort.
In addition reserves have more than doubled
in the last seven years. They are described
as nominal in the table because they are
subject to goodwill, already referred to. The
p. and 1. figures, by the way, are reached
after setting aside unspecified amounts for
doubtful debts, taxation and depreciation.
And it is reasonable to assume that provision
has also been made for other contingencies.
During the coming year a State-wide poll is
to be taken on the liquor question in Vic-
toria, where the forces of the Dry army
will need a 60 p.c. majority to carry the day.
If recent history in N. S. Wales, Queensland
and Maori land is any guide, it seems very
unlikely that the trade in the southern
State will be interfered with, more especially
in view* of the fine work of the Licenses
Reduction Board. So the market for brewery
scrip remains unaffected apart from the
general depression on the Stock Exchange.
Bat there is financial stringency hiding
behind a near-by corner, and nobody can be
certain what its appearance would mean.
Still, with practically a monopoly of the
trade the co. can scarcely avoid making
good profits under any but catastrophic
conditions.
How snug the finances are this next com-
parison shows :
1924. 1928. 1929.
Assets other than
goodwill, freeholds
and plant . . £923,369 £1,800,018 £1,899,857
Less liabilities . . 280,001 400,470 399,781
Net liquids .. £642,708 £1,405,542 141,500,076
Thus besides whatever was spent on fixed
assets, and in addition to receiving divs.
averaging 16.7 p.c., shareholders are visibly
£857,308 better off than they were four
years ago. The improvement last year was
£94,534.
Here is a closer view of the co.’s acti-
vities :
1924. 1928. 1929.
Sundry creditors .. £168,078 £284,349 £284,015
Deposits 112,523 210 410
Mortgages . . .. 115,917 115,350
Brewery freeholds . . 103,393 252,682 255,840
Hotel freeholds . . 126,486 408,555 389,096
Book debts, etc. . . 002,832 837,174 854,071
Stocks and Excise stamps 201,027 324,674 324,326
Plant, etc 271,043 422,187 427,703
Leaseholds . . .. - 11,330 9,000
Cash, investments, etc. 119,510 644,170 721,460
The all-round expansion of the figures over
the last five years reflects the purchases,
already mentioned, and the quick growth of
the business. During the last two years
£47,179 more has been spent on plant than
has been written off, and the brewery free-
holds are being steadily added to. That and
the expansion in book debts is pretty certain
to mean livelier trading. Hotel freeholds
are in at valuation, down £19,459 during
the year, and that followed a drop of £45,848
in the previous term. It looks as if the co. is
passing over some of the properties to a subsi-
diary, recently formed to deal in hotel free-
holds. If any have been sold, the profit, if
there was any, has been whisked away to
inner reserves. Shares in other cos. figure
at £83.346.
Of the £1,950,000 of paid capital £200,000
is in 7 p.c. prefs., which follow the ords. in
any distribution beyond that rate. The public
is interested in the scrip through the five
holding cos., whose shares are listed. The
position in this respect is as follows
Holding Market Re-
Paid in Div. Price turn
Capital. C.U.B. p.c. Scrip. p.c.
Carlton. ..£816,992 £631,704 14 41/- 6.8
Castlemaine. 175,000 117,414 14J 32/6 7.8
Foster . . 57,600 83,049 24* 70/- 7
Shamrock . . 78,525 83,049 17 55/- 6.2
McCracken’s 41,625 41,625 17* 53/- 6.6
All the cos. have visible reserves of their
own. On the last figures available these
were Carlton, 4s. 9d. per share ; Castlemaine,
35.; Foster, 12s. Bd.; Shamrock, 7s. Bd. In
addition there are inner reserves equal to
their respective. proportions of the undis-
tributed profits in the operating co.; these
amounted to 12s. lid. per C.U.B. share.
Brisbane Permanent Building.
Dividends and To Re-
Aug., Profits. Dividend Tax. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1919.. 11,978 6 p.c..= 5,902 6,076 35,245
Transferred to capital, £13,939 .. 21,306
1920.. 11,974 7 p.c. = 8,004 3,970 25.276
Written off, £1306 .. .. .. 23,970
City & Suburban Co.’s reserves, £22,090 46 060
1921.. 16,811 8 p.c. = 12,769 4,042 50 102
1922.. 22,913 8 „ „ 16,956 5,957 56,059
Share premium, £1093 .. .. 57 152
1923.. 23,068 8 p.c. = 17,231 5,837 62,989
1924.. 31,455 10 „ „ 25.483 5,972 68,961
1925. . 38,342 9 „ „ 25,607 12.735 81,696
1926.. 36,230 9 „ „ 27,000 9,230 90,926
1927.. 44,950 10 „ „ 33,492 11,458 1-02,384
1928.. 48,214 10 „ „ 35,974 12,240 114,624
1929.. 47,720 10 „ „ 39,909 7,811 122,435
This is tlie Brisbane Permanent Building and
Banking Co., Ltd., which for many years
after the smash of the ’nineties limped along
nursing the properties on which it had pre-
viously advanced too much. It jettisoned
3s. Gd. per share of its capital in 1006. but
was able to restore Is. 6d. of it m 1936, and
the other 2s. three years later. That made
paid capital £107,620, to support which there
was £21,306 of reserves; meantime the div.
had climbed to 6 p.c.
From that point the table takes up the
story; and the very remarkable expansion of
the figures tells, amongst other things, of the
rapid growth of Brisbane and its suburbs,
and of the boom in land values. The swell-
ing is clearly seen in this comparison:—
1919. 1926. 1928. 1929,
Paid capital.. 101,4 33 3 00,00 0 3 94,8 9 4 4 00,000
Liabilities .. 2 72,13 9 8 69,70 4 9 72,2 98 1,018,888
Premises .. 10,741 15,000 17,500 25,900
Advances, etc. 335,277 886,584 1,047,456 1,093,308
Public securities
and cash . . 65,750 379,546 444,334 452,115
During the past decade £746,759 of extra
deposits have been gathered, and the growth
in advances has amounted to no less than
£758,031, thus lifting each item beyond the
million mark. The spring in public securi-
ties and cash was £386,365, while £298,507
was added to paid capital. High prices for
our primary products and the influx of
millions of loan money have inevitably pro-
duced inflation, so wages jumped, and rents
follow wages, and capital values fellow rents.
Conversely, when the boom money is spent,
and hard times succeed good ones, wages fall,
unless they are artificially maintained, and
rents and capital values follow wages down
again. Then instalments on time-payment
purchases stop and properties are thrown
on to the hands of such cos. as this one.
But it doesn’t follow that because the rocks
are there the co. will strike them ; its experi-
ence of 30-odd years ago should help it to
steer clear.
At the close of last accounts there was
Bs. lid. of every pound coming to depositors
and others in public securities and cash,
which suggests that the management is alive
to possibilities. Thus the value of advances
and premises would need to shrink to less
than half their book value before a penny of
depositors’ money would be in danger.
Last year money was tight and real estate
difficult to move. Also there was a pro-
nounced slackness in the building trade. So
the growth in advances was less than one-
tliird the previous year’s; but that is not a
bad feature—it is usually the new loan that
causes the big trouble. The spring in the
year’s revenue (£108,3721 was £6326, but
exes. (£60,652) took £5866 of the increase.
Thus, after allowing for minor adjustments,
the net result fell back to 11.9 p.c. on average
capital compared with 13.4, 13.4, 12 and 13.4
p.c. back to 1925. After repeating the 10
p.c. the £7Bll of the year's net earnings that
remained in the business lifted the support
for each of the 400,000 £1 shares to 6s. Id.
at Aug. 31.
The market for the scrip has been fairly
steady throughout the year around 295. 6d.
At that figure the return is 6.8 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis.
J. Fielding and Co., Ltd.
, Dividends •, Towards
Net Pref. Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. 7 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
1920.. 22.059 933 15 p.c. =75,000 13,626 10,102
Reserves disclosed (approx. £19,300).
Assets written up ; two ordinaries issued
for one; goodwill (£5000) disappears.
1921.. 17,761 1400 8f p.c. =9,625 6,736 6,736
1922.. 53,112 1400 Hi „„ 12,375 39,337 46,073
Pref. capital ( £20,000) returned.
Ordinaries.
1923.. 28.627 111 p.c.=13,333 15,294 61,367
1924.. 29.735 111 ~,,13,500 16,235 77,602
1925.. 18.225 111 ~,,13,500 4,725 82,327
.1926.-23,495 111 ~,,13,547 9,948 92,275
Reserves capitalised, £24,500 .. 67,775
1927.. 36.354 124 p.c.=18,375 17,979 85,754
1928.. 40,408 15 ~,,22,425 17,983103,737
1929.. 41.050 15 ~,,22,425 18,625122,362
This very successful Sydney manufacturing
concern, which turns out cardboard boxes,
carton and corrugated-fibre containers, has
had another splendid year. A shortage of
raw material early in the term, due
to. the destruction by fire of the Cumberland
Mills, caused a little anxiety; neverthe-
less, the board figured the net result
at £37,811, or £6903 better than the previous
year’s. That was after £3739 dropped from
somewhere into “specific reserves,” raising
the heap to £58,303. Of course specific pro-
visions for definitely-anticipated losses are
not profit. But the “Wild Cat” believes
that in this instance the accumulation so
tagged, or most of it, is in excess of actual
requirements, and treats it accordingly. Only
three years ago an assault was made upon
these reserves for all but £5600 of the
£24,500 then scattered in a one-for-five bonus
issue, and the store had been tapped previ-
ously for similar purposes. No less than
£80,500 of the £149,500 of paid capital at
Sept. 30 represents gift scrip put out in
the 1920 reconstruction and after. The gifts
have been nice sweeteners to divs., averaging
a whisper under 12 p.c. over the last nine


ẃ
/ Wfi
as’oaxTjaai
% w
m
« i
i
I
II I
'
■
.
■ I
Q»
Xt ' '
% XJ^
ni in
:
V
TODAYS TRAFFI
CONDITIONS DEMAND
THIS NEW TRUCK
Fleetmaster has been deliberately designed to meet the need for
absolute flexibility, so necessary under modem traffic conditions;
but not only is Fleetmaster easy to handle and efficient in operation
---it is as well able to deliver transportation at the lowest cost
per ton-mile possible. Fleetmaster operating costs add up right
in the profit column.
INTERSTATE AGENTS
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177-185 William Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114 Franklin Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency,
(Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek & Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Republic Truck Sales Co., Ltd.
905 Hay Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND:
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki & Cable Streets,
Wellington.
Factory Representatives: W. A. CROWLE LT D., Crowle House, York Street, Sydney.


Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
•ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
Who Will Manage Your Estate?
At all times when an individual is appointed as Executor or Trustee
the uncertainty of human life is present. Who is better qualified to
administer your Estate than the
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED.
It cannot die, travel or disappear; has had over 40 years’ experience
in the management of all classes of Estates, and offers as security the
whole of its capital and assets —over £1,000,000.
Our Explanatory Booklet will be
sent to you Post Free on Request.
THOS. BUCKLAND F.
JAMES MOIR
J. W. Barnes, Manager.
DIRECTORS:
N. YARWOOD O. E. FRIEND
(Chairman) Lt.-Col. T. F. RUTLEDGE
' E. V. T. Whittle, Asst. Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Mobilising
k the Gold
WHAT DOES IT MEAN?
In its December number the
“Wild Oat” Monthly tells
you. The whole financial posi-
tion is reviewed.
The Bank of N. S. Wales
has reduced its dividend rate.
What does that signify ?
Clearly things are threaten-
ing which investors ought to
know about.
In these uncertain days
every investor —even though
it be only in a life insurance
policy—owes it to himself and
his family to keep himself
informed.
Let the Monthly help you.
DECEMBER NUMBER
NOW ON SALE
SINGLE COPY, *l- ; PER ANNUM,
22/6. Prom Newsagents, or Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagli
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * ❖
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coldison & Co., 483 Collins Street. Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.— Advt.
# * * *
No greater tribute to the remarkable efficiency of
Pioneer Wood Pipe could exist than the record of
service that it has established on the many important
contracts where it has been specified. Its strength,
durability, ease of handling and the fact that it is
absolutely non-corrosive are factors that have con-
tributed to the great success of this excellent con-
duit. Write for a copy of free illustrated data
book. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns
Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.;
and at Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
it * * *
L. J. Smith, Estate Agent and Hotel Broker, Ulver-
stone, Tasmania, sells country and town properties
and businesses of all kinds.— Advt.
i'fi ❖ . ❖ ❖
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888) hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
ẅ
years, and during that time £122,362 of
reserves have been visibly accumulated.
Only once has last year’s £41,050 of
profit been bettered; on the other hand,
only twice since the reconstruction have
admitted net earnings fallen short of the
amount last year’s 15 p.c. distribution called
for. The 10 p.c. div. and 5 p.c. bonus were
together equal to only 8.2 p.c. on capital
and reserves combined at Sept. 30, whereas
the net return on average funds was 15.6 p.c.
compared with 16.5, 16.2, 11.3, 9.1, 15.6 and
16.6 p.c. back to 1923, when the position had
become so comfortable that £20,000 of 7
p.c. pref. money, got in only four years
earlier, was returned.
With such attractions on view, it is not
surprising that the market has come to
eagerly anticipate further benefits. Two
years ago it priced the pound shares at 415.;
the figure moved up to 'sos. 12 months back,
and reached 60s. shortly before the publica-
tion of last accounts. But expectations were
not realised, and buyers have since short-
ened their offer to 545., with sellers stand-
ing off at 575. 6d. At 565. the immediate
return is only 5.3 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div.
basis. At that price the investor who looks
for a shade over 64 p.c. on the scrip
counts on a one-in-five bonus issue and the
maintenance of a 15 p.c. distribution. Even
these things would call for £14,140 less than
was netted last year.
Much of the co.’s success has been due to
the imagination and quick enterprise of
James Fielding, its managing director. He
bought the Sydney Cardboard Box Co., 23
years ago for £1650, and had a hard struggle
to set the infant industry on its feet. The
co. got its opportunity during the war, when
costs restricted the use of metal containers.
Fieldings, which had spent a lot of money
on experiment and research, .stepped into the
breach, and has since greatly widened and
strengthened its connections. American ex-
perience and the co.’s own progress suggest
that the industry here has a very promising
future. But the general outlook is full of
uncertainty at the moment, and nobody is
quite sure what may happen in the next year
or two. In such circumstances competition
is liable to get very sharp.
Still the co. is in a snug position, as this
comparison of balance-sheet figures shows :• —
1919. 1926. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital .. £40,000 £122,500 £149,500 £149,500
Liabilities .. 51,982 7,529 8,266 17,569
Premises .. 31,324 51,967 50,462 45,417
Plant, etc. .. 21,230 56,636 44,568 40,501
Stocks.. .. 42,416 25,115 25,829 31,712
Book debts, cash
and investments 19,778 96,133 151,856 183,014
Over the last two years the shrinkage in the
book value of premises and plant has
amounted to no less than £21,934, or over
20 p.c.; it is obvious, therefore, that pro-
vision for depreciation, etc., has not been
neglected. Including stocks, up £5883 during
the year, the more or less liquid surplus
(£197,157) was £27,738 stronger than at the
previous balance. Most of the year’s spare
money went into “sundry debtors, invest-
ments, etc.” (£179,617, up £35,430). In-
vestments, which constitute the greater part
of the item, “show an excellent return and
contribute substantially to the co.’s earn-
ings” ; they include the co.’s holding in Cor-
rugated Fibre Containers Pty., Ltd., a sub-
sidiary which has been operating in Mel-
bourne since 1923. So Fieldings may not
yet have received all the profit they are
entitled to from this source.
“A Fraudulent Bubble.”
Quarterly Dividends, Ltd., and National
House Purchase, Ltd., are the two halves
of a thrift society with headquarters at
Fishponds, Bristol, England. The organisa-
tion was started about 20 years ago as a
friendly society, but the promoters, having
embellished the scheme with Utopian ideas,
set about doing things on an international
scale after the war. Operations were extended
to Australia and Maoriland, but though a
large quantity of literature was circulated,
not a great deal was heard of them until
the end of last month, when the
secretary of Quarterly Dividends, Ltd.,
in the Dominion, was sentenced to three
months’ hard labor concurrent on half a
dozen charges of obtaining money under false
pretences. Addressing the accused, Justice
Kennedy summed up the position in this
way: “You have been the representative of
two companies whose tricky and deceptive
deposit system was a mere fraudulent bubble.
Although your representations may have
seemed to an ordinary person mere deception,
those representations did, in fact, deceive
persons with little commercial experience,
and also persons with commercial training
who did not stop to think.... You will be
sentenced, however, .merely for those offences
upon which you have been found guilty, and
will not have to bear vicarious punishment
for those responsible for the promotion of
the companies.”
The bait held out to depositors isi that of
“assisting the working classes to rise, at
least to a position of comfort, if not inde-
pendence, in later life.” The way in which
"this is to be accomplished is not commercial,
but philanthropic. The society’s literature
sets out the complicated inter-relation of the
pseudo-finances and finances of the two cos.
in a most intriguing way. Broadly the
scheme is that a member invests in each
co. Quarterly Dividends, Ltd., is the pension
or dividend-paying concern, and House Pur-
chase, Ltd., exists for the purpose of making
loans to members at 2$ p.c. to deposit with
the sister co. Despite its name it does not
have anything to do with the purchase or
houses.
One of the outstanding features from
the financial point of view is that 45
P-c. of the deposits received by Q. D.,
Ltd., is treated as revenue and lmme-
diately paid out as dividends to existing
members; the co. sticks to 5 p.c. to cover
exes. The other half is placed to a reserve
fund, which is said to be invested m seeun-
ties returning 6 p.c. p.a. Lhe trustees ot
this fund, by the way, are appointed by the
ao. and can mortgage the securities. 11 a
depositor wants 1 11 S money back he can apply
for only 50 p.c. of the amount ot Ins
deposits, and in the event ot death it is pro-
yided by the rules that only one-tenth of his
interest is transferable; the other nine-tenths
becomes the joint property ot the surviving
members. It is plain, therefore, that once a
depositor parts with Ins money he loses al
control over it, together with the right to £
very substantial part of it. 1 e . c -
fit s received depend almost entirely upon the
amount of fresh deposits gathered,
deposits stop the society will run dry.
* s largely to stave oft this i ev . ,
day that House 1 urchase, Ltd., comes i to
the picture with its shimmenng the e
Here you put m only one-tenth of th. amo t
Y° u want to borrow ; the other nine-tenths
1S to be provided out ot dividends from t
sister co. The idea is that, as sufficient funds
become available to grant the advance, part
of it will be re-invested with IT. 1., Ltd., for
a fresh loan. lhe_ snowball is to be thu-
rolled until a maximum interest ot ioOOU
has been acquired mQ. D., Ltd. The pity is
that a limit has b<?en prescribed, for by
indefinitely expanding the process every
depositor must become a potential milhon-
aire, on paper. But then the whole wlum-
sical business of conjuring with the book
entries of the two cos. operating the scheme
would become too apparent, and the flow of
deposits could be expected to stop.
Incidentally, the rules provide that mem-
hers make written application each quarter
for their dividends, and send a stamped
and addressed envelope for reply. Exactly
how the finances of the two cos. stand, and
precisely where shareholders come into the
picture, the “Wild Cat” does not know,
nor has it been able to find a depositor who
has even the foggiest notion in this respect,
The January, 1929, issue of the society s
official organ declares that the Dec., 1928,
quarterly dividend was Is. Id. in the pound,
or at the rate of 21.6 p.c. p.a.
,
p-^ ie geological fieltl party sen! out by
Mining Trust, Ltd., of London, will arrive
m Queensland m a few weeks and start work
immediately. The Trust recently secured
from the Queensland Government the sole
rights to prospect 100,000 acres at Lawn
Hills. It is one of the most promising
potential areas in Queensland for lead, zme
and silver, but prospectors and small corn-
pany operations have failed signally in the
past to develop it, owing to excessive costs,
mainly due to long transport. It lies over
100 miles from Burketown. Gougers have
done well at times, but have had to restrict
themselves practically to find galena. Large
leached lode outcrops have been described,
and it is almost a foregone conclusion that
underground prospecting will reveal big
bodies of sulphides. _ Large tonnages will
need to foe proved to justify local treatment
and railway communication. Interest in the
prospecting of this field will be second only
to that of Mt. Isa, but it is an unfortunate
time of the year—just at the beginning
of the wet season—to send unacclimatised
Englishmen into the humidity, heat and flies
that prevail until March,
* * * *
Within the next few weeks two indepen-
dent prospecting parties are leaving Kal-
goorlie to fossick for gold in the Warburton
Ranges and the interior. One party, con-
sisting of four men and three motor-trucks
under Alec McDonald, will strike for Mt.
Cavan, south-east of the Warburton Ranges,
and then north to the Musgrove Range. An
attempt will be made to reach Oodnadatta
in Central Australia, Mt. Aloysius being
prospected on the way. According to
McDonald, Mt. Aloysius has not yet been
explored by white men. A similar trip was
planned last year, but the truck broke down
331 miles from Laverton on the return
journey. The other expedition is to be made
with eight camels by Walter Gilmour and
Samuel Haslett, both old hands, and Haslett
junior. The senior Haslett went to the
Warburton Ranges 25 years ago, and had
just sufficient time to see where a claim had
been pegged on a quartz outcrop when he and
his mates were attacked by natives. In the
running fight that followed he was speared in
the shoulder. This new venture into the
wilds is to attempt to locate that claim.
In spite of much high-sounding talk about
a year ago, the Whitworth Mining Corpora-
tion is doing next to nothing on Irvinebank
and surrounding areas (N.Q.). It has been
extra hard hit by working on the lowest tin
prices for years (£lO5 to £lO7 for 70 p.c.
concentrates). It started off with a more
or less worked-out string that had previously
been rejected by cute Uncle Sam financiers.
The Governor Norman was' always low
grade, and Whitworth found that it didn’t
belie its reputation. Work ceased there after
the co. found that it could get only 1 p.c.
ore, which wouldn’t pay on the low market.
A little work is reported at the Vulcan,
which has been unwatered to 600 ft. or so.
It was rich once, but now resembles an
anastomosing rabbit warren, and pay shoots
will take a lot of finding.
* * * *
The Blytliedale bore, Aus. Roma Oil
No. 2, is still keeping shareholders in sus-
pense, and the long-awaited test is still
ahead. The delay has made the market
recede, yet there is no legitimate reason for
it, since the traces of crude oil in the sand
core can reasonably be regarded as amongst
the most promising phenomena in the
Mararoa area. Water is the trouble at pre-
sent, an enormous inflow having occurred
and caused much discussion as to whether
it is top or bottom water. They are cement-
ing off what is supposed to be the bottom
water, and a test should be possible pre-
sently.
* * * *
Wilga Coal Co. (W.A.), headed by Claude
do Bernales, is preparing for production and
"competition with the well dug-in Collie Pro-
prietary. At present Collie has a monopoly
of the State Government’s custom, but in
view of the Premier’s announcement that the
development of other Westralian coal de-
posits should be encouraged, Wilga expects
to get a share.
* * * *
The new Horseshoe Co. (W.A.) expects
early and regular divs. from its mountainous
dumps of residues, which have already been
cyanided once or tw-ice and which, according
to official estimates, still have at least Is. Od.
to 2s. a ton profit left in them. The co. will
start operations in January with over 2s.
a share in hand and about 2,500,000 tons of
stuff to treat. Its paid capital is £75,000
in 750,000 2s. shares.
* * =i= *
The old, old story. Hanlons West Co.,
after hurriedly taking an option over “the
richest thing discovered on the Westralian
goldfields for years,” has just as hurriedly,
after sampling, let it go as unsuitable. Hamp-
ton Consols, after blowing about the richness
of its prospects at Westonia, announces that
returns are disappointing owing to what was
thought to be highly payable ore proving to
be mullock.
'!' * Sjc !j;
Wiluna Co.’s claim for remission of Cus-
toms duty on imported mining machinery is
again “under consideration.” The Bruce
Government promised to let plant which
couldn’t be manufactured in Australia in
free, but since the Scullidores arrived some
hitch seems to have occurred. The amount,
involved is said to represent many thousands
of pounds.
Paringa Co., of Westralia and elsewhere,
announces a surplus of £5709 for year ended
April 30 last. Co.’s investments include an
idle goldmine at Kalgoorlie, an interest in
a gold proposition in Rhodesia, and some
shares in asbestos and rubber ventures else-
where. Directors continue very optimistic.
if :|! *
Westralia marked its centenary by increas-
ing its total mineral other than gold pro-
duction to approximately £7,100,000. Nearly
the whole of this amount is represented by
tin, copper, lead and coal. At one time, base-
metal mining in the West was lively, but
now it is almost paralysed. Apart from a
little enthusiasm displayed in the develop-
ment of asbestos deposits on the distant
Pilbara field, coal is the most active section
of the industry at present.
❖ ❖ * *
The small group of mines originally
fathered by Malay Siamese have always
shown higher working costs than most of
their contemporaries, though they are improv-
ing in this respect. Nawng Pet, a large
sluicing show in Southern Siam, has had a
lot of misfortune in the past through flooding,
with consequent destruction of dams, etc.
The luck has been better of late, and the
November returns show a profit of £1533.
The co. is a Straits dollar concern of 500,000
shares of 2s. 4d. each. Costs work out at 6d.
per yard, which is not at all bad for a sluic-
ing co. Huey Yot, a dredging proposition,
struck a debit balance. The 19 tons of t.o.
recovered realised £1867, but it cost £2392
to get it. Heavy clay accounts for the poor
return. Costs are high for a dredging plant
at 9.9 d. Haad Yai, another dredging co., did
better with 34 tons from 75,000 yards. The
recovery realised £3792, and costs at 6.2 d. per
yard left £1852. Capital is £200,000 in £1
shares.
Of other Australian-owned mines, Muang,
Austral Asiatic’s first float., maintains its out-
put average with 39 tons from 78,000 yards,
the oxide realising £4500. Costs came to
£1750 or 5.4 d. per yard, leaving £2750.
Ratrut Basin, with two dredges running,
recovered 5,0 tons of t.o. valued at £5BOO. No.
1 is working in tailings and No. 2 has been
hung up for repairs: costs are not given.
The same remark applies to Bundi, which
recovered 57 tons of oxide valued at £(>4oo,
and to Takuapa, which, with its twin
dredges, got 91 tons valued at £10,210. There
is no reason why these and other cos. should
not take the public into their confidence in
the matter of working expenses. Others
enhance their reputation by doing so.
* * =1:
John Martin, president of the Transvaal
Chamber of Mines, whooped about the great-
ness of the Rand goldfield at Jo’burg the other
day. And well he might. During the 40
years of its existence the field has produced
bullion to the value of nearly one thousand
millions. The present yearly output
(£42,000,000) is more than half of the
world’s annual production. The industry-
supports 250,000 whites and 1,000,000
natives. Another responsible official, the
Government engineer (Dr. Pirow), has pre-
dicted that the present known gold deposits
on the field will produce a further thou-
sand million pounds’ worth of bullion.


the Greatest Commercial
Forestry Company in the
World
TREES PLANTED
w
ŵ
A WONDERFUL RECORD
The results already achieved by N.Z. Perpetual
Forests, Ltd., leave no room for doubt as to the future
of the Company. THE RIGHT MEN ARE BEHIND
IT, THE RIGHT POLICY HAS BEEN LAID DOWN,
AND THE RIGHT PROPOSITION OFFERED TO
BONDHOLDERS.
Owen Jones, 8.A., Diploma of Forestry (Oxford),
late Ceylon Forestry Service, late Chairman of the
Forestry Commission of Victoria, Australia, is the
Company’s field administrator.
B. H. Goudie, M.Sc., late of State Forests Service,
N.Z., is the Company’s Curator of Nurseries.
THE NUMBER OF BONDS SUBSCRIBED FOR IN
PREVIOUS ISSUES EXCEEDS £3,400,000. THE
SHARE CAPITAL IS £240,718, AND THE RESERVE
FUNDS LODGED WITH THE TRUSTEES AMOUNT
TO £400,000.
Based upon investigation and the calculations of
experts, our estimates show that our crop will be
worth £250 an acre if marketed as wood pulp in
approximately 12 years’ time, or £5OO per acre if
marketed as general timber 20 years’ hence. And
remember —-prices of all classes of softwood timber
have been steadily increasing, AND WILL CONTINUE
TO DO SO because of dwindling supplies throughout
the world. About the time that American and
Canadian resources are almost exhausted, N.Z.
Perpetual Forests, Ltd., plantations will be ready for
marketing at enhanced prices. These facts mean
MONEY—big money.
You KNOW, there is big money in forestry—you may
have hesitated where to invest. Send for the FULL
FACTS about N.Z. Perpetual Forests, Ltd. Get the
Prospectus—make comparisons—then act on your
own judgment. Investigate before you invest!
N.Z. Perpetual Forests, Ltd., is in no way associated
with any recently-floated afforestation or “pulp” com-
pany, and statements made by any salesman to the
effect that arrangements have been made for other
companies to pulp the forests owned by the bond-
holders of N.Z. Perpetual Forests, Ltd., are absolutely
untrue.
N. Z. Perpetual Forests, Ltd
SOLE BROKERS:
SMITH, WYLIE & CO., LTD.
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney
“TO-DAY’S SEEDLING IS TO-MORROW’S WEALTH.”
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN PRESSED
METAL VEHICLE BODY.
■“THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
* No. 11057/27 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above or for
the granting of a license to make, use and
vend the invention within the Commonwealth
of Australia on reasonable terms. Particu-
lars obtainable from Griffith and Hassel,
Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN STORAGE-
BATTERY SEPARATORS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
* No. 13813/19 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of his rights in the above or for
the granting of a license to make, use and
vend the invention within the Commonwealth
of Australia on reasonable terms. Particu-
lars obtainable from Griffith and Hassel,
Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
PUFFED CEREAL FLAKES AND
METHOD OF PREPARING SAME.
"JTIE
HE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 17684/15 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above or for
the granting of a license to make, use and
vend the invention within the Commonwealth
of Australia on reasonable terms. Particu-
lars obtainable from Griffith and Hassel,
Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
TEMPERATURE-PRODUCING.
MECHANISM AND CONTROLLING
MEANS THEREFOR.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 18346/20 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above or for
the granting of a license to make, use and
vend the invention within the Commonwealth
of Australia on reasonable terms. Particu-
lars obtainable from Griffith and Hassel,
Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN ELECTRICALLY-
CONTROLLED DOOR-OPER ATIN G
APPARATUS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 5505/27 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above or for
the granting of a license to make, use and
vend the invention within the Commonwealth
of Australia on reasonable terms. Particu-
lars obtainable from Griffith and Hassel,
Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN A CUP-
FORMING MACHINE WITH
STACKING ATTACHMENT.
TTTE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 20990/24 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above or for
the granting of a license to make, use and
vend the invention within the Commonwealth
of Australia on reasonable terms. Particu-
lars obtainable from Griffith and Hassel,
Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
IMROVEMENTS IN A CUP-BLANK
PUNCHING MACHINE.
nrilE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 20849/24 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above or for
the granting. of a license to make, use and
vend the invention within the Commonwealth
of Australia on reasonable terms. Particu-
lars obtainable from Griffith and Hassel,
Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 QUEENSLAND—ROCKHAMPTON.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
Mr. Justice Brennan.
BETWEEN BERTHA CLARICE CLEM-
ENTS Plaintiff and JOHN STANLEY
CLEMENTS Defendant.
TO JOHN STANLEY CLEMENTS form-
erly of Springsure in the State of
Queensland Barman the above-named
Defendant.
TAKE NOTICE that an action No. 34 of
1929 has been commenced against you in the
Supreme Court of Queensland at Rockhamp-
ton by petition filed therein and Writ of
Summons issued thereout on the twenty-sixth
day of October 1929 by Bertha Clarice
Clements of Rockhampton in the State of
Queensland married woman for a dissolution
of her marriage with you on the ground of
your continuous desertion without cause for
five years.
If you desire to defend the said action
you must within thirty days from the publi-
cation of this advertisement inclusive of the
day of such publication enter an appearance
in the said court to the said action and in
default of your so doing the said Bertha
Clarice Clements may by leave of the Court
or a Judge proceed therein and judgment
may be given in your absence.
You may appear to the said action by
entering an appearance personally or by your
solicitor at the Supreme Court Registry at
Rockhampton.
DATED this twenty-ninth day of Novem-
ber 1929.
[L.S.] J. R. GAIR,
Registrar.
Hobler and Powell, Solicitors for the
Plaintiff, Rockhampton.
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Monday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.


PAINFUL POEMS
My place was burgled late last
night,
They’ve cleared out every room,
My dear old aunt has died of fright,
And I think they’ve killed the
groom;
HlHllHillllPlllHiffiS
—|
■TV
_! -
J/7,
t/i
m
a
They’ve got my china and my
plate,
My prints and water-colours,
But —here’s the jest —they never
found
Those boxes of ABDULLAS !
—Fougasse
frBDUIM (Tgarettes
VIRGINIA TURKISH EGYPTIAN
m
mmsMs-z
11111
3
\
*
c m
\ j
’•x&w'/ftV. ax&X.axaxaxßX
x*/ » / tf> *? ev ff >ra xe «
iff axerx:a.xe:/.a.v.exe x exe/issy
/faxax'mx.exex a xexexe x e
hxaxe.xaxßxa.trexaxaxexax
'•'.ax&'xex&xex&xexffXG'xexv,
exexexexexexexexmxwxe*
xrnxexexexexmxexexmxexa
exex.exexexexmxexmxexex
xffxexexexexexmxmxexexa,
l? xexexexmxe x exmxexexe a
V a xe # p xa x c x «s x e x & x a x * x m
xit. exex ex » x exe x exexe xs/f,
vtoxexmxexexvxmxexiwxaf/J
\sssxexex exex ex exßX'e xur/
ySx&xmxesesexmxexex/zy
XSs?xexmxmxmx»x»-20y
■JtSyZ:-
' s
iu;
The famous
AERTEX open weave.
THE cool comfort and protection from
sudden changes of temperature so essential
in tropical underwear, are to be found in
every AERTEX garment,
Through the porous open mesh of AERTEX
the skin breathes freely and the extreme heat of
the day or the sudden chill of the night finds
the body adequately protected by the AERTEX
wonder weave.
ẁ
Obtainable from all Hosiers, Drapers and
Outfitters. In case of difficulty apply to
Mr. H. 0. S. DREW
313/315 FLINDERS LANE,
MELBOURNE, Australia.
Representative of the Cellular Clothing Co.
Ltd., who supplies Wholesale Trade only.
mAERTEX:
v5-|v
O N D O S — _
•5-jiS This Label on ell Garmenfspwvi
See this labelon all gdrme'nts
ẃ
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Street*,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Pisk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etr
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
7/je Standard oi Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety i-u 3?
Detonators
Cartridges
Hadfields
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS—DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadlields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and { Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W. II Branch | 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Vic
foundries i Bassendean, Perth, W.A. II Office )T.& G. Building,' Brisbane. Q
When you come to
SYDNEY
You will find at Usher’
tial to the enjoyment
Hotel service that
cuisine of rare excel-
lence, and that
friendly hospitality
which you desire.
Telephone and run-
ning water in all
rooms. Book accom-
modation early.
every essen-
of your visit,
is homelike,
Bed
and
" re akfast
Tariff
“desired
Special tariff or inclusive terms.
&
L
H O
OPP. THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
’Phone BGSII (10 lines).
Cable & Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel.” Sydney.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Padriac”: Forceps had been
visiting a bush school, and the
two kiddies he had relieved of
their ivories were on their way
home when Forceps bethought
himself of something on which
he had to consult the teacher.
Leaving the lanky and stolid-
looking youth he had selected to
help him in charge of his impro-
vised surgery, he'took the teacher
from his classroom for a consul-
tation. It lasted no longer than
two minutes, but it was . long-
enough ‘ for Lanky. ’Dashing , a
half-bottle of red ink into two
buckets, he filled them to the.
brim with water, then struggled
into the crowded classroom with
his gory burdens. “Gee!” lie
exclaimed to the, horror-stricken
children, “that bloke’s hot! Two
kids done and two buckets o’
blood!” It took Forceps and the
teacher the rest of the week to
restore confidence, reinforced
though they were by a public
confession from Lanky.
* * *
“Kismet”: On Maubiag, love-
liest of Torres Strait isles, Negele,
the pretty young daughter of the
Mamoose, took me for a stroll
through the village. We came to
a hut on the platform of which
an old man squatted on his
haunches smoking -a bamboo pipe.
Negele hurried me past: : he was
a bad man who too much saveed
pourri-pdurri, she skid. It was
well known that he knew tile
secret of the alligators’ tooth
magic, which can kill a man in a
diving-dress down at the bottom
of the strait. 1 called on him at
midday. He still sat and smoked.
I sat, too, and looked out across
the strait. “I savee pourri-
pourri,” I said, and did a simple
sleight-of hand. He peered at me
in surprise. His smoke finished,
he p,ut the pipe aside, and sat
looking out on the strait to where
three pearling luggers skimmed
along in the teeth of the south-
ea s t trades. Suddenly they
stopped, all three, in full sail and
in the teeth of the trades. They
stayed as still as ninepins for
full five minutes. “Him go?”
(Shall I permit them to move?)
asked the magician. “Yes.” He
mumbled a few words and the luggers sailed
on. It couldn’t have been mesmerism, for
all the time I was looking out across the
water, not at him.
* * % if
“Wang”: “Y’ never can tell what some
wimmin will do when they lose their tem-
pers,” remarked old Dan. “I was at a sports
meetin’ up tli’ country where there was all
sorts of competitions, foot-runnin’ an’ them
sorter things. In one of th’ races th’ prize
LEO’S DAY’S GOOD DEED.
THE TIGER: “You look happy this morning about something.”
THE LION: “Yes, I’ve just put the new tamer in his place.”
THE MODERN WAY.
GATEKEEPER: “Have a good trip down, sir?”
wus either a woman’s brooch or a bag of
seed spuds; th’ winner could take his pick.
Tli’ race wus won be a young cocky. His
missus wanted him t’ take th’ brooch, but
he picked th’ bag of spuds. By cripes,
if she didn’t go ter market! She called him
fer ev’rything, an’ th’ fuss she made about
it riled a lot of th’ people, who sided with
th’ cocky, who wasn’t a bad sorter bloke, an’
they knew th’ spuds ’d be more use to him
than th’ brooch would be to his missus. That
made her madder than ever, an’ she screeched
out she’d get even with him somehow. Later
in th’ day there wus a tug-o’-war between
th’ bachelors of th’ districk, an’ th’ married
men. Th’ young cocky who’d won th’ bag
of spuds wus pullin’ on th’ married men’s
side. They’d just tightened th’ rope, an’
were bangin’ back waitin’ fer th’ signal t’ go,
when tli’ cocky’s missus comes tearin’ up,
yellin’ that her ole man wasn’t eligible t’ pull.
Th’ pres’dent an’ secretary tole her t’ go
away an’ not make a nuisance of herself.
But she was bent on trouble. ‘He ain’t,’
she shrieked, ‘he ain’t eligible t’ pull. He
ain’t married t’ me at all.’ And he wasn’t,
either.”
# * * *
“Sucker” : The general manager of a big
Queensland pastoral co. was so mean he
hated walking in the sun—he’d cast a free
shadow on the ground. He came to our
camp while Darky Bobbins, the overseer, was
running out cancered sheep to slaughter and
skin. “Don’t waste those carcases,” was
the g.m.’s instruction. “They make quite
good ration sheep. There’s nothing wrong
with ’em. Eat ’em.” Three months later
the g.m. paid another visit of inspection.
Darky was at the head station, having
dinner with the guns. “Are you using those
cancered sheep for rations, Bobbins?” the
g.m. grunted. “There’s nothing wrong with
’em, is there?” “There doesn’t seem to be,”
Darky admitted. “Has anyone objected, to
eating them?” “We’ve only eaten one, so
far,” said Darky. . “I haven’t heard any
complaints. They seem to be all right.”
“Of course they’re right,” said the g.m.
“Give me another slice of that mutton,
Thompson,” he added, turning to the
manager. Then he went on with the sub-
ject: “Did the men know they were eating
cancered mutton, Bobbins?” “They didn’t,”
Darky confessed; “this is it you’re eating
now.” And that’s how Darky came to join
the unemployed.
“Lot 13”: Old Bill was in from the
Cooper, resting between jobs, while his
cheque melted like snow in Bodkin’s pub.
One day Bodkin asked him to brand a few
calves. Bill was just sober enough to be irrit-
able, but he w T as an energetic old cuss who
would rather work than loaf any day, and
he didn’t mind the chance of showing Bod-
kin how the job should be done. The calves
were yarded, and a fire kindled handy to
the rails, and Bill called for the brands.
Followed one of those dreary hunts when a
long family of slovens looks pessimistically
for something that apparently doesn’t exist.
Upstairs and downstairs meandered the
search, ransacking indiscriminately madam’s
boudoir and the tribal rubbish dump, while
Bill danced and cursed them. “Never mind
the qualified asterisk brands,” he roared
at length. “Bring out a pint of that stuff
you call whisky, and I’ll paint it on. There’s
nothing fierier this side of Hell.”
* * * :Ji
“Lyu”: When a Gosford orchardist tries
to raise his girl on the ’phone to find out
how she is after the dance last night and
gets no response, what does he curse? The
exchange? The local postmistress? No!
The disgusting little flying-foxes, which, hav-
ing surfeited themselves on his fruit, hang
themselves on the. telephone wires to sleep
it off. Between Sydney and Brisbane these
dissolute animals are so numerous in parts
that men are sent with long poles to knock
them off the wires.
* * * $
“Harold ILardupp”: A snake-killing cham-
pionship is claimed for a Grafton (N.S.W.)
dog which makes tackling the reptiles a
hobby ; in one day it put an end to six of the
crawlers, including a tiger-snake. Bitten
twice, Bluey is apparently immune now:
but the dog’s _ lightning dive to catch his
snake just behind the head doesn’t give the
victim of his enthusiasm much chance to
test his immunity. Bluey is known to have
killed 114 snakes of all varieties, and its
owmer, Keith Durrington, is proud of its
performance. J. R. Wilcox, of Tathain
(Richmond, N.S.W.), claims that his dog
Sandy has destroyed over 100 snakes anil
must run Bluey pretty close.
(Continued on page 25.)
SKINNERS FLAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“One councillor declared that the road through
Skinner’s Flat, though only half a mile long, was
the worst in Australia.”. ... •;
Perhaps you’ve driven bullocks where roads
are fair and straight,
Where teams can draw their burdens with
a normal hauling gaft,
Or p’r’aps you’ve driven nothing but a coupe
, or sedan -s- ....
On strips of pavvy concrete laid upon the
latest plan.
Or maybe you control a lift, from nine
o’clock to five,;
That gently glides from, floor to floor inside
a city hive;
If so you’ve little interest in what I’m
driving lat:
The worst-road'in Australia’s the one through
Skinner’s Flat.
It lies a little north of Coff’s, upon the
coastal road, . ...
Where* teamsters swing a ten-foot whip, and
one good log’s a load ;
North, south and west the gum-clad heights
o’erspread £heir sodden shade.
In swamps to eastward ti-tr.ees thrive, their
gnarled old trunks displayed.
A scarred and torn convincing-ground for
bullock, man and gear,
A quagmire in the winter rains, a heart-
break all the year;
It's cursed by every bullocky throughout the
north and east
As where he’s left a ton of sweat, a busted
truck, a beast. - ,
When scorching suns have dried the mud and
stiffened-up the bogs,
The twisted tracks are vaguely seen be-
tween discarded logs;
The earth, deep-gashed by wheels dug out,
attests to many an . oath,
To cursing men' and grunting teams, to moil
and sweat of both.
The scanty scrub about the Flat is withered,
dwarfed and bent
As though an age-old fire had licked and
scorched it as it went;
But old hands in the district never put it
down to that.
They blame the blasts of language that have
burst through Skinner’s Flat.
N.S.W.
FRED AARONS.


midi Record
days
11052 houtsj
nonstop engine run
'A
Arrange for a Complete
Demonstration To-day.
Three average years of
a Motor Engine’s life
crammed into 43 days !
’THAT’S what the remarkable performance
of the New Superior Whippet Four in
smashing the world’s record by 27 hours
virtually means.
Starting from the G.P.0., Brisbane, on
September 26, the engine ran continuously
for 1032 hours until officially stopped on
November 8. This stringent endurance
test was made under the control of Mr.
Leaver, of the Technical Committee of the
R.A.C.Q. Mr. Leaver sealed and locked
the bonnet and the various parts so that
the engine could not be restarted in any
way. The speedometer recorded 6430 miles,
and computing the idling time at 1 0 miles per
hour the engine performance was equivalent
to 15,000 miles.
This wonderful non-stop engine perform-
ance once again proves Whippet’s economy
of operation and ability to give long con-
tinuous service without adjustments. Petrol
consumption averaged 32 miles per gallon.
The engine was dismantled in the presence
of Mr. Leaver and the public, and was
found to be in perfect condition.
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LIMITED,
148-150 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
ADAMS MOTORS, LIMITED,
442 Murray Street,
PERTH.
State Distributors:
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA
LIMITED,
62-70 Franklin Street,
ADELAIDE.
E. G. EAGER & SON, LIMITED,
Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead,
BRISBANE.
OVERLAND (VIC.) PTY. LTD.
117-121 Lonsdale Street,
MELBOURNE.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO. LTD.
53-63 Bathurst Street,
HOBART.
ŵ
ẁ
NEW SUPERIOR WHIPPET FOURS AND
SIXES


Consis
ExcellencdSi nee 1575
enr
Old
very
HOLLAN D
‘
jnuy
m 3
r
A SK for BolsVery Old Holland
Gin in the STONE Bottle,
o S Silver Cap Dry Gin in
j? ( J uare Glass Bottle with
the Green Label.
Accommodation
160.
Central,
Comfortable,
Convenient,
6 Mts. G.P.O.
Excellent
Cuisint-.
Billiards.
Daneinsr.
ORIENTAL HOTEL
(No License)
KING’S CROSS, SYDNEY.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET.
TARIFF:
Weekly,
£3/3/- to
£4/4/-
Daily,
11/6 to 12/6.
Room & B’fast,
8/6 to 9/6
FL2034
F 3575
W&W26.
®OSI
ALAN
London Office:
“Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAN*
rA-z'
\s~\J
BRANS
Containing about 99.9.5% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association K;
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
“Hayband”: I was recently introduced to
something new —a damper shandy. Ingredi-
ents: Flour, sugar, currants and water.
When cooked it looked like the cap of an
ironstone outcrop. The top was unembel-
lished damper, while the bottom was damper
with currants in it, and at least three times
as sweet as the upper storey. “I can’t be
bothered cooking damper and brownie,’’ ex-
plained the artist, “so I make a dead-heat
of ’em.”
* * * :Jc
“Swallozit”: The country west of Spen-
cer’s Gully, opposite Port Pirie, is dry, and
bush animals line! water scarce at times.
There was a very light misty shower the
other morning, and our section-car had to
stop twice to chase a Too off the rails.
After any dampness, ’roos are invariably
found along the railway. They find tiny
pools of water on the sleepers, and eagerly
lap up the moisture. They also come to the
track at night-time to lick the dew on the
rails, and many have been killed by trains.
On the Whyalla-Iron Knob railway the
record is 18 on one wet morning. Lizards
also show a liking for the steel rails, and
are often seen cooling their throats on the top
of a rail. They are too slow or too intent
on their job to shift, and leave a crimson
VERY NEAR HIS HEART.
IKEY ISAACS: “I uos sorry to ’ear you had lost your mother-in-
law, Solly.”
SOLLY SOLOMONS: “Ah, it vos a great loss, Ikey, but I ’ave bought
her a peautiful memorial stone out of the money she
left me.”
IKEY: “Oh, vere did you put it?”
SOLLY: “’Ere. I made a luffly tiepin out of it.”
■splash on the rail when a train or section-
car passes by.
SHE WASN’T COMMITTING HERSELF.
HORAGE MEADOWGRASS (having look round the world, you know): “If Ar post an.
important letter heah, can Ai be shoo-ah it will reach mai people at home?”
MRS. TREGOWN (subsidised postmistress): “Well, maister, it do depend on what ’ee do
putt pon the envelope.”
“Toheroa”: The theory that Mt. Egmont.
Taranaki’s lonely snow-peak, lias been active
since the Maori occupation of the “Long
AVhite Cloud” (B. 20/11/’29) finds confirma;
tion in Maori
legend. According
to the ancient tale,
which like others of
the kind translates
the Maori theory
of natural occur-
rences into poetic
allegory, Egmont,
which the Maori
calls Taranaki, at
one time stood with
Ruapehu and Ton-
gariro in the middle
of the North Island.
Taranaki, the war-
rior, was brother to
Tongariro, the
mighty hunter, who
coveted the beauti-
ful Ruapehu, Tar-
anaki’s wife. While
Taranaki went
south to fight, Ton-
gariro eloped with
Ruapehu, where-
upon Ruru, the
nigh t-o wl, flew
south with the
news, and Taranaki
at once followed
the couple, caught
them, killed Tonga-
riro and amidst
great fire and de-
struction turned
the guilty pair into
volcanoes, symbols
of burning and un-
quenchable love.
Then Taranaki
went towards the
sea, Lake Taupo
representing th e
spot he left and the
Wanganui River
the track he cut to
the coast. While
he stood meditating
on the seashore the
sun-god Ra rose,
saw the havoc
wrought and turned
Taranaki also into
a volcano, belching
forth rage and
hatred where he stood. He cooled down; hate
dies, but love being eternal the other two
still display symptoms of activity in boiling
lakes and springs.
* * * *
“Cooramin”: Falling trees and branches
have accounted for many grim accidents in
the bush, but more numerous have been the
narrow escapes. The greatest presence of
mind I know of in this connection was that
exhibited by Tom
Nevell, a one-time
crack horseman, of
Eylstone (N.S.W.).
A burning tree sud-
denly snapped as he
was riding almost
under it. There
was no time to
pass or turn, so he
put his hands on
the pommel of the
saddle and sprang
backwards. Before
his feet hit the
gro u n d the tree
crashed on the
horse, killing it
instantly. A black-
boy on Wooroo-
woolgen (N.S.W.)
had an equally
narrow squeak. He
was galloping after
a beast when a
heavy branch
crashed down in
front of his horse.
That animal
propped so violently
that the girths
broke, and the
blackboy threw a
somersault over the
branch, landing on
the other side with
the saddle still be
tween his knees.
“Darken” : Here’s
another problem
solved. I pulled
up at an old-timer’s
hut, still slapping
at the flies which
had worried me all
the morning. The
old chap came out
rubbing his eyes
after 40 winks.
“Beats me,” I said, “how you can sleep in
the daytime with these darn things.” “What
—the flies?’ he queried. “ ’Seasy. I park
’em.” “Park them?” I asked. “What do
you mean?” “Well, it’s like this. I put dead
goannas in three corners of the room and
sleep in the other.
* * * *
“F. Vr.”: A little more about Leichhardt.
Eric Hultman, a young Swede, came to
Queensland early in the ’nineties. In his
book “Black Diamonds” he says that lie
worked a quartz reef, while two of his
mates, John Standisli and Richard Kennedy,
went out prospecting. After a few weeks
they returned. They had met and made
friends with a tribe of blackfellows, whose
chieftain had just died. He was an old,
old white man, and Hultman suggests that
there is evidence that lie was Leichhardt.
His half-caste son had died, before him, and
the only survivor of his blood was a beauti-
ful grand-daughter. It was love at first sight
between her and Dick Kennedy, and when
the prospectors returned she accompanied
them. Later Kennedy married her, but the
bridegroom was murdered by blacks on their
way to the coast, and the bride vanished for
ever. The story looks fishy, but if it is
true, the facts ought to be on official record
somewhere, as Houltman says Standisli re-
ported the murder to the police, who sent
out a patrol to search the valley.
=[: * :|: *
“Unity” : On the outlying islets south of
Stewart Island seals congregate in the
breeding season. On one islet hundreds of
them gather round a large rock pond which
had apparently been used for generations as
a swimming school for the infant seals.
When the time arrives for a baby seal to
learn to swim the mother conducts her
unwilling offspring to the brink, and, sup-
porting him on her flipper, swims round the
pool. The youngster, utilised to the icy
water, protests loudly all the time, and
makes off directly he reaches land. After
a while his mother will seek him again
and drag him, whimpering, to the water.
The protests go on for several days, until
the youngster can swim and dive, by which
time he spends most of his time in the pool
swimming nursery handicaps.
#*. * *
“Ike Newton” : Why is the law of gravity
suspended in favor of creatures smaller than
man? An insect of almost any sort or size
can drop practically any distanci without
being discommoded by the terminal bump;
a mouse thinks nothing of a fall of six feet,
and I’ve seen a cat leap from a bough
20ft. high and land on its feet none the
worse. In regard to insects, the theory
lias been advanced that they are of very
light weight in proportion to their size, but
that can’t apply to the many armor-plated
beetles nor to the common flea, who, as
anyone who lias hunted him can testify, is
very solidly constructed and can withstand
great pressures. I suggest that in the case
of the very tiny creatures, at any rate, they
SOMETHING WRONG SOMEWHERE.
MRS. SNIFTER: “I must ask you for your room, Mr. Wishbone.
I am one of the easy ones to get on with, I’m sure, but
I can’t see heye to heye with a boarder who makes a ’abit
of anging 'is 'at over ’is key’ole.”
meet with a much higher ratio of air resist-
ance than do larger bodies. Will some
scientific member of the Council with a
vacuum undertake research work?
PEDDLER DICK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Peddler Dick comes down the track
With his fardel strapped on his sturdy back,
The mothers and maids all run to see
What Dick the Peddler’s brought for me!
A ring for Jenny and a cap for Sue;
A ribbon for Moll and a smock for you!
And it’s Heigh, ho! but the money goes
quick
When the doors By wide for Peddler Dick!
When Peddler Dick puts up his pack
And strides a-whistling up the track
His steps are followed by many an eye,
And the mothers all whisper, the maids all
sigh.
It sets them thinking what father’ll say
When he comes homo at the close of day.
With a H'eigh, ho ! Alas and alack !
It’s “Good-bye, Peddler, and soon come
back!”
But Peddler Dick he knows his trade,
And cares not a button for wife nor maid :
He never comes nigh when the master’s in.
“I’m no such fool,” says he with a grin,
“Let wise folks borrow and softies lend,
’Tis men make money for women to spend !”
And it’s “Heigh, ho! with my fardel and
stick,
I get the most of it!” says Peddler Dick.
S.A.
CHARLES HENRY SOUTER.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart tor the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover or
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Old Contemptible (34), Vic., married, abstainer,
four years’ garage exp., wants job as chauffeur, truck-
or tractor-driver or gardener anywhere. Refs. —3670.
Organiser, publicity expert and advertising man-
ager (trained journalist), with extensive experience,
wants position, N.S.VV. Refs. —3698.
Ex-civil servant (53), N.S.VV., wants light duties
in gentleman’s residence. Good home main con-
sideration. Refs. —3684.
Englishman (20), N.S.VV., two years in Australia,
wants job on station as jackeroo, anywhere. Handy
and can ride. Refs. —3689.
Man (27), single, 10 years’ mechanical exp., can
drive and repair car, truck, tractor or other mach-
inery, wants job on station, anywhere.—36sl.
Young man (19), N.S.W., wants job on sheep
run. £1 a week. Anywhere in Aust. —3264.
Ex-chief steward and wife seek employment hotel,
club, etc. Experienced in catering, bar-work and
book-keeping. Refs. —3676.
Young man, N.S.W., wants job station, farm or
factory. Experienced; can drive car. Refs. —3734.
Man (26) seeks responsible position sheep station,
Vic. or N.S.W., nine years’ exp. in N.Z. with
leading breeders. Refs. —3707.
Old Geelong Grammarian (55), Brisbane, seeks
employment in hotel. Exp. in bottling, filtering,
etc. Good home main object. Refs. —3709.
Carpenter and builder, N.S.W., wants job with
station-owner or country contractor. Can do running
repairs to motors. Refs. —3716.
Lady, Sydney, will take charge of children during
summer vacation. Refs. —3673.
Young man (24), Queenslander, sheep-station and
farming exp., wants job in N.S.W. —3611.
Young man, eight years’ exp. station West Darling,
handy with oil-engines and windmills, can break
in horses, wants job as head stockman or overseer,
N.S.W. or Q’land. Refs.—36l9.
Girl wants position in Q’land early in New Year.
Light household duties and drive car. Refs, ex-
changed.—362o.
Station manager (47), exp. in N.S.W. and Q’land,
sheep and wool-classing, good horseman, wants
position. Refs. —3636.
Lady Companion, Sydney, young, bright, musical,
seeks comfortable home.—36lB.
Artist, well-known Bulletin contributor, wants
holiday on N.S.W. farm or station, one month, early
in new year. Would paint picture or give lessons
in return. —3732.
To exchange Australian Stud Book, Vols. I, 11, 111
and XII, for Australasian Turf Registers of various
dates. —3674.
To exchange first editions of Conrad, Stevenson,
Fitz Gerald, Gissing, Meredith, and others for press
camera and apparatus.—3733.
To buy Pugh’s Queensland Almanacs 1861, 1868,
1890, 1892, 1893, 1894.—3672.
To buy used commercial art courses. —3634.
To buy “Ways of Many Waters.”—373o.
To buy books dealing with billiards. —3640.
To buy Favenc’s “History of Australian Explora-
tion” and Landsborough’s journal (published Mel-
bourne, 1862). —3605.
To buy gramophone records by Florrie Ford and
Robin Gambler.—36lo.
To buy newspapers over 25 years old. —3663.
To borrow “History of Demonology and Witch-
craft.”—36sB.
Young lady (24), Sydney, interested in music and
reading, would like correspondents.—3623.
By lady (28), Sydney, correspondence with readers
outback. —3729.
Words of “Understood,” written in reply to
“Not Understood” ; also “Beautiful Snow.” —3643.
Words of verses beginning “There’s his saddle
across the tie-beam.” —3617.
Words of ballad beginning “Fire and sleet and
candle-light. And Christ receive thy soule” ; also,
to buy cheap edition Voltaire’s “Candide.”—37o3.
Whereabouts of Peter McKinlay (55), who left
Clydebank, Scotland, five or six years ago for
Adelaide.—373s.
Information Sought.
I understand the controlling interest of
Federal Building Assurance Co., Ltd., has
been sold to Australian Federal Life and
General Assurance Co., Ltd. (1) Fact?
(2) Can it be done without calling share-
holders? (3) Present standing of both com-
panies ? —3616.
(1) In July last the Aus. Federal Life
Co. bought the fire, mariUe, accident and
workers’ compensation business of the Fed-
eral Building Assurance Co. and its three
associates —Commonwealth Traders, Aus-
tralian Traders and Empire Life and Gen-
eral cos. It is understood that the Federal
Building Co. continues to transact life busi-
ness. No price has been disclosed. (2)
Depends on co.’s articles. (3) We have been
unable to get the balance-sheet of Aus.
Federal Co. As for the Federal Building
Co., tlie accounts are presented in such a
way that we find it impossible to make an
estimate of the position.
An English authority on finance wrote:
“As they say on the Stock Exchange, trade
and securities cannot boom together." (1)
Just what does this mean? (2) How could
the statement be turned to profit in Aus-
tralia? —3728.
(1) Always mistrust the man who tells
you “they say.” Probably this writer’s theory
is that when people are spending money
freely they are not paying much attention to
investments. (2) For months past trading
conditions have been thoroughly bad in
Adelaide, for example, and there has been no
activity in any class of security. This
department’s opinion is that, if what “they
say” was true in England, it isn’t true in
Australia.
Re Greater J. D. Williams Co.: (a) When
was it registered and where? (b) What
theatres did it control to start witht (c)
Original directors and capital? (d) What
happened when Hoyts came in? (e) I was
promised certain shares at the start. Where
can I find out ah out them? —3647.
(a) Registered N. S. Wales, December 2,-
1910. (b) Lyric and Melba theatres operated
by co. in first year. Crystal Palace acquired
in next term ; also Britannia Theatre, built
about same time. In 1913. theatres passed
over to Union Theatres and film business to
Australasian Films. Co. still retains free-
hold of Melba Theatre, (c) J. D. and W.
G. Williams, Williamson, Thompson, Up-
ward, Rofe, Charlesworth, 11. Y. Russell.
Original capital: Nominal, £200,000; paid-
up, £148,281. (d) No connection with Hoyts,
but co. received 97,500 shares each in Aus-
tralasian Films and Union Theatres at time
interests were amalgamated. Hoyts, inci-
dentally, amalgamated with J. C. William-
son’s picture interests, (e) Get in touch
with co.’s office, 34 Martin-place, Sydney.
A club borrows money from the bank,
some of the members signing, a guarantee.
Are those that signed wholly and solely liable
or are all members of the club responsible
for the amount advanced? —3675.
So far avs the bank is concerned it looks
solely to the persons giving the guarantee.
They in turn look to the club for reimburse-
ment, assuming the advance to have been
formally authorised by it.
What are the qualifications and pay of
a tea-taster? —3696.
Business training, ordinary intelligence, a
discriminating palate. Experience can be
gained in the tea centres, Calcutta, Colombo
or Batavia, but this is not absolutely neces-
sary. Salary is governed by capabilities.
(1) What is a super-charger, as used or.
high-speed aeroplanes and racing cars? (2)
What is the weight, wing span and length
of the Rolls Royce Supermarine 86 which
iron the Schneider Cup? —3lo3.
(1) It is a device for increasing the
volume of gas supplied to the cylinders. This
is done by means of an air fan placed in the
induction system. (2) Details are not avail-
able. The Napier S 4, a machine of very
similar type, has a weight fully loaded of
31501 b., a wing span of 30ft. 6in. and a
length of 27ft.
Jlow can I secure appointment as a Justice
of the Peace?- —3541.
Appointments are only made to meet
the necessities of the public. If such neces-
sity is shown to exist at any particular
place, and representations in writing are
made to the Attorney-General by some re-
sponsible person or body of persons who
nominate some person for appointment,
the Attorney-General may recommend the
appointment to the Governor-in-Council,
after inquiry concerning the nominee.
How many cub. feet of air per hour is
consumed per square foot of grate area,
natural draught, 30 ft. chimney, light firc-
woodf—3slB.'
The minimum quantity of air necessary
to consume lib. of dry wood completely is
approximately 70 cub. feet at 68 degrees F.
and ordinary atmospheric pressures. Wood
containing moisture requires less. In prac-
tice, more air would pass up the chimney
than the amounts indicated. The actual
quantity is dependent on the design of the
grate, the amount of air that passes up the
chimney merely as a diluent, etc.
How to control fig-leaf beetles? —37l9.
Spray the infested trees with a mixture
of 11b. arsenate of lead powder to 40 gallons
of water. Spraying should be undertaken
as soon as the grubs appear, and this will
give control before the fruit commences to
ripen, when spraying is undesirable.
(1) How are gold tailings cyanided? (2)
Would it be possible for an amateur to fix
up a small plant to treat, say, 100 tons?
(3) What is the name, of the rock at Mt.
15a?— 3322.
(1) The tailings are delivered into gal-
vanised-iron vats in as dry a state as pos-
sible. A weak solution of cyanide of potas-
sium is sometimes run in first and a strong
solution is afterwards added. After the
strong solution has been in contact with the
tailings for some hours percolation is
allowed to commence. The solution is con-
veyed to boxes containing zinc shavings, in
which the gold is precipitated, and the solu-
tion drained away. The chemicals used
are potassium cyanide, and sometimes
sodium cyanide or bromo cyanide. (2) It
would not be advisable for an amateur to
fix up a small plant.. He should first obtain
experience at a cyanide plant. (3) The pre-
vailing rocks of Mount Isa are (a) very
finely-banded quartzites (ribbonstone), (b)
porous beds and bands of clay and iron-
stone shales, (c) contorted and altered
shales, (d) irregular masses of ironstone
more or less stained with manganese, (e)
finely-stratified beds of magnesite, dolomite
and limestone.
Titles and publishers of modern books on
alluvial dredging ? —3626.
“Tin Deposits of the World,” by Sydney
Fawns (Mining Journal, London), 155.;
“Tin Mining,” by G. G. Moor (Pitman, Lon-
don), Bs. Both contain chapters on dredg-
ing.
What, are the dimensions of a large surf
board like those seen on Sydney beaches,
from, what icood are they made and where
obtainable? —3644.
Surf boards are made from 3in. American
redwood, 9ft. long by 2ft. wide. The board is
tapered from lin. thick at the nose to 3in. at
3ft. (lin. from the nose, and from lfin. at the
back to Sin. at ,2ft. 6in. from the back, leav-
ing a section in the middle, 3ft. long, 3in.
thick. The dimensions and thickness of the
board may be adjusted according to
weight of the user. They cost from £5 to
£6. Secretary, Surf Life Saving Associa-
tion of Australia, Sports Club, 10 Hunter-
street, Sydney, will give further particulars.
(1) What is the nearest dairy science
school to Albion Park (N.S.W.) f (2) Could
a butter-maker attend such a school? (3)
Subjects taught? (4) Length of course and
fees? (5) Are certificates of merit issued?
006 i .
(1) There is no permanent dairy science
school in the vicinity. In each year from
May to October dairy science classes are
held in different districts. (2) Yes. (3) The
course comprises instruction and examina-
tion in cream grading, milk and cream
testing and elementary dairy bacteriology.
(41 A week. The fee is ss. (5) Certifi-
cates to grade cream and test milk and
cream under the Dairy Industry Act are
awarded to students who are successful in
passing the examinations. Dairy classes
are also held at the H'awkesbury Agricul-
tural College. These extend over periods of
one and two years and extensive instruction
is given in all dairy subjects. Apply to the
principal of the college for a syllabus.
(1) What are the prospects for a youth
of 17 with a Leaving Certificate who wishes
to become a journalist? (2) llow would he
secure a position? (3) Would you, recom-
mend journalism in preference to the Public
Service ? —3677.
(1) Most metropolitan papers have long
waiting lists of youths seeking employment
as cadets. Only exceptional qualities will
land an early job. (2) Apply direct. (3)
Rewards come more quickly in journalism;
but the Public Service offers greater security.
(1) What is the record for the Stawell
Easter Gift race? (2) What would be a
fair time for the distance for a lad starting
training for the event?' —3381.
(1) 11 2-ssec., by E. Fleming off 10 yards
in 1915. (2) Can’t say. A lad running Bor
10 yards outside of even time might improve
very little, whereas a much slower runner
might pick up several yards after a few
months’ training.
How to prevent mildewing of cut pump-
kins f—3575.
Keep them in a dry, well-aerated position,
remove the seeds and central pulpy matter
and cut the pumpkin in halves if it is not
found to dry readily when only a small
portion is cut out. If the above measures
are not effective, dust the cut surfaces with
salt.
, i ) Arc there any Italian bees in Aus-
tralia? (2) What is the difference between
the Italian and the English bee? —3470.
(1) Italian bees are to be found in practi-
cally every commercial apiary in Australia.
This variety is preferred on account of its
disease resisting and honey gathering quali-
fications. (2) In appearance, chiefly color.
The Italian bee has three yellow bands on
its abdomen, and the English bee is dark.
Does a rifle bullet fired from a barrel held
perfectly horizontally rise on its course? —
3505.
A leading practical authority says it does,
as “the bullet has a natural tendency to
rise above density.”
What is the difference between freehold
and Torrens title? —3601.
By “freehold” is probably meant “old
system title,” since both old system and
Torrens convey a freehold. The essential
difference between “old system” and “Tor-
rens” is that the latter substitutes for the
cumbrous common-law title a statutory title
embodied in a simple certificate and renders
this title more secure by making compen-
sation payable out of an assurance fund in
the event of fraffid or error. Also, “Torrens”
is less costly and much more expeditious.
(1 ) A batsman hits a ball, which is caught.
Both batsmen run and have crossed before
the catch is made. Should the not-out bats-
man return to his wicket or should he take
strike when the new man comes in? (2)
A ball lodges in the top of a batsman’s pad
after striking the bat. Can the wicket-
keeper pick it out and claim a catch? (3)
In matches on matting a ball is generally
called a wide if it does not pitch on the
matting. If a batsman hits such a ball
would it still be considered a wide, and
would the batsman be out if caught off it? —
3629.
(1) The batsman stays at the end he has
crossed to. (2) The ball is dead if it lodges
in any part of a batsman’s equipment or
clothing, and he cannot he out from it. (3)
A ball is not a wide unless in the umpire’s
opinion it is out of the batsman’s reach,
matting or otherwise. If a batsman strikes
a bail it cannot be a wide, and unless it
happens to be a no-ball he can be caught off
it.
(1) Are there any vacancies for officers,
steivards or seamen in the Australian Navy
at the Q’land depot? (2) Where should 1
write to for information? —3519.
(1) No. (2) District Naval Officer, Naval
Staff Office, Edward-street, Brisbane.
(1) What are the fares from Sydney to
Argentina? (2) Where could I get employ-
ment over there as a carpenter? (3) What
wages are paid carpenters in Argentina? (4)
How long does it take to get from Argentina
to Sydney ? —2429.
(1) Via New Zealand and the Panama
Canal, thence by steamer to Valparaiso and
by rail to Buenos Ayres, £73 10s. third class.
By steamer to Durban or Capetown. Thence
by another vessel to Buenos Ayres, £37, third
class. (2) Such work would be most diffi-
cult to obtain. (3) W.ages are much lower
than in Australia. (4) About seven weeks,
either route.
What is a suitable white dressing for the
bottom of a brick drain? —3014.
Use either white cement and white sand
or ordinary Portland cement with an addition
of, say, 5 p.c. of hydrated lime. This mix-
ture should be made to the consistency of a
thick cream and allowed to stand for, half
an hour before applying. The brickwork
should be thoroughly saturated witli water
immediately before applying the wash, and
should be damp for at least 24 hours after
the application.
Does Anybody Know?
I low to train a cattle-pup, five months
old, to work cattle? —3657.
Brief Answers.
R. 8.: If security of principal is very
important, better leave it where it is. Large risks
in the other. .. .T.J.P.: (1) A gamble at very long
odds. (2) Yes; if all listed stocks were divided
into 10 classes, they would be in the third —maybe
the fourth.. ..E.G.W.J.: They may be all right;
nobody knows. We doubt whether you can get out,
anyhow. You can’t drop those things when you like.
....No. 999: (1) Yes; unless the bottom falls out
of things it will always be saleable. (2) Tax
payable depends wholly on what other income you
have. Any Commonwealth Bank manager will work
it out for you. ... A.G.8.: Neuritis arises from a
variety of causes—overwork and alcoholic excess
among the number. Stop all alcohol and tobacco.
Try to get plenty of rest and be careful not to
expose the affected part to draughts. Take two
aspirins or aspros every four hours for a day or
two. . . .A.W.: Highly improbable. Know nothing
about him or his tablets... .G.L.C.: There is no
chemical or preparation of the kind mentioned which
can be used for refrigeration purposes. .. .8.G.L.:
See Campbell’s “Guide for Prospectors” (3s. 6d.),
Barker’s Book Store, Adelaide-street, Brisbane
G.W.: Motzos are circular biscuits made of un-
leavened bread, known to Hebrews as Passover cakes.
L.Iv.: Remvick Hospital for Children, Summer
Hill, Sydney, trains infants’ nurses. Ask the matron
for information... .F.8.J.: Don’t know it. What was
its address?. . . .A.D.; No. 1 fair; No. 2 with a big
goodwill, but not a good money-spinner. No particu-
lar reason for selling now. ... A.M.A.: No evening
school under the N.S.W. Education Dept, provides
a course leading to the Leaving Certificate
G. : Wonderland City was opened at Tamar-
ama Beach, between Bondi and Bronte, Sydney, in
December, 1905, and ran until 1910. ... J.W.8.:
Caragabal, 73,797 bags; Quandialla, 59,011 bags;
Bribbaree, 91,306 bags; Milvale, 65,618 bags;
Stockinbingal, 47,704 bags E.H.D.: Send us his
prospectus or full postal address and we will investi-
gate A.S.A.: Write to the Chief Inspector of
Explosives, Wellington, M.L H.D.N.: Advertise
the business in the Sydney Morning Herald
T.L.: It appears to be a copper 2d. piece made in
1797, which, if in good condition, would be worth
about 2s P.D.: You must comply with the terms
of tho lease or effect a compromise with the land-
lord. If your husband is not a party to the lease
he is not responsible... .M.G.: Try Dymocks or
Angus and Robertson, both of Sydney. Price depends
upon date of publication and condition. .. .R. 5.8.:
(1) You may settle direct with your creditor. (2)
You are under no compulsion to pay the fee
Barcelona: Write to the dentist and ask him for
an explanation. To “show him up to the public,”
as you suggest, would be a very dangerous course
unless you are absolutely sure of your ground....
H. : (1) See answer to 3601 this issue. (2)
Dogberry remarks to Verges, Act ii i, Scene 5, “Much
Ado About Nothing”: “Comparisons are odorous:
palabras neighbor Verges.” (3) Write to the co.
with which you are insured... .R.R.: Try Crawford
and Fleming, 507 George-street, Sydney H.P.R.:
Melb. Uni. advises that all three are practically the
same, and the certificates of each are accepted by
it... .W.F.P.: The Department is entitled to exercise
its discretion in disclosing information confided tc
it, but information concerning a pensioner disclosed
to the Department by you will be treated as confi-
dential. .. .R.W.H.: Probably some months; impos-
sible to do more than guess, as all depends on how-
soon the case is reached, how long the heaviug
takes, and how long the Judges need to prepare
their judgment.. . .A.P.: (1) N. C. Fowler’s “Art
of Speech-making” (65.), E. Pertwee’s “Art of
Effective Public Speaking” (Bs.), H. H. Roberts’s
“Public Speaker” (65.). Obtainable from Dymocks,
Sydney. (2) The course mentioned is well spoken
of by men of repute... .8.C.5.: Make application tc
the various shipping cos E.C.D.: Commence with
“Pitman’s Shorthand Teacher” (“New 7 Era” edition),
and continue with “Pitman’s Shorthand Instructor,”
both procurable any leading bookseller. Sydney
Technical College charges £1 per year for corres-
pondence course. ... F.W.J.: British Trade Com-
missioner, Herald Building, Pitt-street, Sydney, will
give you a list.... J.S.: The Land Page will deal
with mint-culture very 500 n.... S.N.L.: The Curators
of the Sydney and Melbourne Museums may be a'.le
to help you... .C.J.R.: Dugong hides are practically
valueless. There is a small sale for the oil. Write
Mr. Welsby, Queensland Yacht Club, Brisbane—
H.D.N.: (1) £1 per annum. (2) For a license
under the N.S.W. Theatres and Public Halls Act.
apply to the Chief Secretary’s Dept., Sydney. (3)
Write Deputy Commissioner, Federal Taxation Dept.,
Sydney... .A. J.M.: A fair average for the period
1880-91 is £l2 10s. per ton for lead and 3s. lid.
per ounce for silver. .. .J.G.C.: In the opinion of the
N.S.W. Local Govt. Dept, you were not entitled to
vote... . J.D.M.: Write to Joseph Dubrey, Technical
Editor, American Society of Cinematographers,
Hollywood. .. .E.S.: If the age was accepted, un-
conditionally, on the policy-holder’s statements, and
formally endorsed on the policy, no question should
be raised at death. Inquire from the co J.S.:
Not a public co. Upon paying 2s. at the Registrar-
General’s Dept., Sydney, you may inspect list of
shareholders E.G.: Write to Dept, of Agriculture,
Sydney, and ask for Farmers’ Bulletin No. 82, “Olive
Culture” (Price 6d.) ... .K.A.R.: Hopeless on present
outlook; reorganisation may bring about a change,
but we wouldn’t gamble on it. ...J.T.: Cannot trace
the reference on the very vague data you supply.
There have been many similar observations by Judges
in all parts of the Empire... .T.N.: A patent would
not be granted for a mixture of alum and water or
any well-known ingredients... .H.D.: Entries for the
Wynne Art Prize closed this year on December 0
at the National Gallery, Sydney. Entries must be
either Australian landscape or sculpture, done during
the year. This year the prize will be worth about
£50....J.H.: N.S.W. Agriculture Dept, recommends
“Ostico” ; William Cooper and Nephews, O’Connell-
street, Sydney,-3s. per lb A. 5.8.: Write to J. P-
van Gelder and Co., Sydney, and Mayne and White
Pty., Ltd., Collingwood (Vic.) ... .A.J.: The essential
treatment of high blood-pressure is rest over pro
longed intervals and a very moderate diet. Carried
out faithfully that treatment will relieve head-
noises. Try Guipsine pills, six a day before meals.
O.C.D.A.: Don’t know anything about “vitality"
pills. See a psychiatry specialist, either at Prime
Alfred Hospital or in Macquarie-street A.8.C.:
Wash scalp frequently with soap spirit. Then wadi
soap out with two or three clean waiters. Get a chemist
to make you up a sulphur and salicylic-acid ointment.
.. . . A.M.: Not that we know of. The essential
thing is rest. See answer to A.J., this issue,-•
T.F.F.: Goitre is thought to be connected with iodine
deficiency. It is not infectious and it is known
to be prevalent in certain districts. There are two
kinds, simple and ex-ophthalmic. The latter require-
immediate treatment, and operation has proved tiie
most successful treatment to date. .. . J.0.H.: The
treatment of Bright’s disease is still unsatisfactory.
Its course in some cases may be held-up by suitable
diet. It is, generally attended,- to- by median
specialists, not kidney specialists. . Wq, do not sug-
gest the names of specialists.; ..(Many others
mailed.)


ffiiveGi 11 making
cry stal ®°^ e
v
OV
<b
i
-^\
a
p
«i£s?
g|||ife:
ml
GV
iP
S 3?
i\UW
01)^
1111 Vl ,L»u‘ 1
ii|| SE(,ad. iw'-
Mil of
Plrntr^;;'
jk jl Bruc • S
: S'
«
■
SSsi:
W:
7j
r>*‘
/I
/#
V
f
Iff
1
m
.T*
Si 5!
w
PQicc
Be Ray
H
\\
NV'
m
m'm
v. I ''" "' :: ;rl
VV\®
iriUßjW.S..ftW
GtJADRUPt-E DISTIUUE
TOR PURITY’S SAKE
ONE gin may contain this virtue ...
another that; but in Crystal Court
Dry Gin all virtues are combined.
Crystal Court Dry Gin is the result of
long and thorough scientific research—
of investigation in other lands.
The great still in which it is produced
is the finest type in the World.
Into its making go the finest constit-
uents, the most scrupulous care; and to
place it still higher above all others it is
quadruple distilled for purity’s sake.
Thus, when you order Crystal Court
Dry Gin, the proud product of your
own country, you order a gin which
in purity, in medicinal properties, and
in delectable flavour has no equal in
the World.
Try it in your favorite form. Use
it as the base for delightful cocktails.
DRY GIN A


r/.
The
Wool
is
Grown
Shorn
and
Sold
year after year. Its condition, length, quality and
the market for it may vary from time to time. But
under all circumstances this action shows decided
advantages.
SEND THE CLIP TO—
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
SELLING BROKERS. LTD.
Sydney or Brisbane.
The firm’s active, able work as salesmen is a decisive
force in producing top market values.
Good Quality Wools
are Firm
Faulty Sorts Decline
EVERY Wool Sale bears this out. It is an undoubted fact
that it is most difficult to keep wool in an attractive
condition even under the best pastoral conditions.
VITA-LICK under all pastoral conditions helps to grow more
wool and make it more attractive.
USE VITA-LICK CONSTANTLY
VI T
A-LICK LIMITED
Stock Lick Specialists
107 KENT STREET, SYDNEY
GIVE
PEAPES’
“CORELLA”
CIGARETTES
this Christmas.
Choice Virginia Cigarettes in
Fancy Cabinets.
75’s 5/9 100’5.... 7/6
: 50’s .... 11/6 200’s .... 15/6
PEAPES
George Street,
Oppc Hunter Street,
Sydneys
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
C[?]PARK & CASTLEAGH
STS SYDNEY
MORE PRIZES FOR FARMERS.
In order to encourage farmers to pass
on to others the fruits of their observa-
tion and experience, “The Bulletin” will
give three prizes for the most helpful
contributions during the six months to
Dec. 31 next.
Points will be awarded for every con-
tribution submitted, if thought worthy and
whether printed or not, and two prizes—
the first of £25 and the second of £10 —•
will be given to the winners of most
points.
A special prize of £5 will be given for
’'he best individual contribution.
Only contributions that are of practical
value to men on the land are asked for;
literary merit is not taken into account, so
long as the meaning is expressed plainly.
The prizes are in addition to the ordi-
nary payments made for aT~ “Bulletin”
contributions.
♦-
TIME YOUR HAY-CUTTING.
“P.W.D.”: For oaten liay the Algerian lias
proved itself over many years to be the best
all-round variety. But all trace of greenness
must go out of the stalk before you put
the binder in, otherwise the hay is unpalat-
able, as there is a bitterness in the Algerian
until ripening, when it disappears. This
bitterness is not in other kinds of oats, which
can therefore be cut at an earlier stage with
advantage. Many varieties of oat have a
puffy straw, and if allowed to get ripe in
the standing crop it dries out very light. An
advantage of the Scots Grey is that it matures
early, and should be cut while still green;
consequently the paddock isi cleared about a
month earlier than is the case with Algerian,
and the undergrowth is nice and green for
your sheep to be turned on. Wheaton hay
should be reaped just as the flower is leaving
the stalk. At this stage the stalk contains a
great deal of nourishment, which is saved
in the process of curing. If the crop is left
standing until grain develops, though there
may be more weight the feeding value is
greatly reduced.
SUPER. FOR THE HARD-UP FARMER.
“Yeoman”: Hundreds of farmers, like
“Glenfield” (B. 20/11/’29), are worried
about super, for next season’s crop. As
the lighter-rainfall areas in the three south-
eastern States have had three failures in
succession, it is highly probable that next
season will be as wet as the previous three
have been dry. With the probability of a
"bumper” season ahead, farmers who have
been hard hit by the drought should seed as
large an area as possible for the purpose of
rehabilitating their finances. Every acre
that this year was well put in and liberally
manured, but failed, should be put in again.
I agree with “Glenfield” that 451 b. of high-
grade super, will be sufficient for such a
seeding, but it should be regarded as a mini-
mum dressing. From 561 b. to 901 b. per acre
should be applied to a crop on fallow. This,
of course, applies only to the Mallee or
lighter-rainfall districts.
At the same time, I would remind farmers
whose crops failed this year that the “lai’ge
residue of super.” that must still be in the
soil from the last application, owing to the
crop failure, will really not be available for
next year’s crop on the same soil, except to
a slight degree. Super., in its crude state
before treatment, is a tri-calcic phosphate.
The latter is not soluble in water, and only
slowly in the dilute acids met with in the
soil. For that reason tri-calcic phosphate
is so slow-acting as a plant food that it is
altogether inadequate to meet the require-
ments of a wheat crop in phosphoric acid-
deficient soils.
After tri-calcic phosphate rock is ground
and treated with sulphuric acid a mono-calcic
phosphate emerges, which is the important
constituent of commercial super. Mono-
calcic phosphate is soluble in water, and is
immediately available as a plant food to
crops. When the super, is applied to the
soil, a reversion takes place through the
mono-calcic phosphate, passing into solu-
tion, coming in contact with lime particles,
on which it is promptly “precipitated” as
di-calcic phosphate. In this form it is not
soluble in water, and cannot be washed
through the soil. It is, however, easily dis
solved by dilute acids, and readily made
available as a plant food during the first
season. After some months a further rever-
sion takes place as a result of the di-calcic
phosphate uniting with more lime (carbon-
ate), forming tri-calcic phosphate, the origi-
nal condition in which it existed in the
rock prior to treatment.
It is only after a drought that stubble
land may again be sown with reasonable
prospects of a profitable crop. And it will
do with less super, than would be necessary
after a good season, not as a result of the
unused super, remaining in the soil, but
because the rest from production caused by
the drought is merely Nature’s way of
re-vitalising the soil.
Under such conditions drought-affected
farmers should apply as much super, as they
can afford next seeding. It is invariably
the most profitable investment on the farm.
HARVESTING SUB.-CLOVER SEED.
“Hillside”: “Brady’s Lookout” wishes to
know (B. 13/11/’29) something about har-
vesting sub.-clover seed. If the vacuum-
sucker worked by tractors is out of bounds,
the only other method successfully followed
is this. About three weeks before it is due
to ripen down, cut the top growth off with
a mowing-machine, at a height of about five
or six inches, if possible. This cutting can
be made into hay for Strawberry for the
winter. Then, when the residue of the crop
is thoroughly ripened off, get out your mow-
ing-machine again, and this time cut as close
to the ground as the machine can go. To
ensure a good close cutting, the paddock
from which seed is being saved should have
been well rolled. (Sheep are profitable
rollers.) Your paddock now being cut
the second time, you get your rubbler
(made of wire-netting and battens) and
drag this backwards and forwards over
the crop to loosen the burrs from the straw.
This straw is then raked off and the burrs
swept up and bagged. Threshing requires
a special machine (too expensive for the
average farmer) composed of two rollers, one
being rubber-faced, the other of “malleable.”
This latter one has serrations running long-
ways, which protect the seed from being
crushed in the rolling process, and allow
it to flow into a hopper underneath. The
seed is then treated in a winnower.
As regards weight of seed per acre, a
f.a.w. of cleaned seed is 4cwt. For the
benefit of “Brady’s Lookout” and others
who wish to sow seed in burr, the average
weight per hag of burr seed is about 91b.
(lowest 51b., highest 151 b. to 161 b.).
As to germination, cleaned seed has given
slightly better results than uncleaned. (In
“Brady’s Lookout’s” case it is quite pos-
sible the frost got at the seed, owing
to the soil lifting.) But germination is not
of the best, owing mainly to hardness of
shell; and experiments carried out by writer
have shown as low as 25 p.c., averaging
about 50 p.c. to 60’ p.c. and going as high
as 85 p.c. when steeped in hot water.
As to varieties of sub.-clover, these are
many. Some are rather poor—slow at com-
ing away, light in foliage and drying down
early. Others (one, the white-seeded) come
away quicker, give a denser foliage (very
important this) and last at least four weeks
longer before drying down. This year’s
experiments have brought to light two varie-
ties that will keep green for at least six
weeks longer than some of ithe poorer varie-
ties, and have given a denser foliage through-
out. If “Brady’s Lookout” will jog my
memory through the Land Page at a later
date, I will be pleased to give final results
of this year’s experiments.
PRESERVING STUBBLE-STRAW.
“H.M.H.” : After the grain, (wheat or oats)
has been stripped, cut the stubble-straw and
stack it. After the foundation for the stack
has been made, lay a foot of the straw ; then
sprinkle liberally a layer of coarse salt;
then another foot of straw and more salt,
and so on until the stack is complete. The
salt percolates through the stack, and the
fodder improves with age. In drought times
cattle and horses eat it readily and keep
their condition on it, and it is certainly
better than buying chaff at drought prices.
I have never seen sheep fed with it, and
cannot say how it would act on them.
WOULD SUB.-CLOVER DO IN
CANADA?
Several letters have come from Canada
during the past few weeks asking about
sub.-clover. This one is typical of the last
three. It is from Poplar Grove, Saskatche-
wan :
In reading the “Man on the Land Page’’ I notice
quite a lot about subterranean clover. Would it
be possible to grow it in our climate? Also where
could a Canadian procure seed for a trial plot ?
We can grow almost every kind of clover here
except the red, which our long winter kills.
“Sub.” thrives in the hills at the back of
Adelaide, where it can be very cold in
winter, but no snow lies there- —hardly any
ever falls. This page doesn’t know of it
growing in snow country anywhere in Aus-
tralia. What’s the experience and opinion
of cultivators ?
AGRICULTURE IN MAORILAND.
“Specker”: A number of inquiring agri-
culturists from this State (Tasmania) have
just returned from a tour of Maoriland.
The two outstanding features that most
impressed them were the surprising number
of stock carried to the acre owing to the
beneficial results of top-dressing, and the
success of the fat-lamb industry. Prices
for lambs range about 275. Gd. or 30s. a
head, and all supplies are readily absorbed
by the overseas market.
The owners of the farms visited were
most hospitable and interested in explaining
their methods. On one flourishing Friesian
dairy farm the owner explained that when
the district was first opened up splendid
crops were realised, but later the land i>roved
disappointing and it was all soon covered
with sorrel. Many fertilisers were tried
without result; then one of the settlers
sowed a strip of his land with lime. After
the application the sorrel disappeared and
an excellent pasture took its place. His
neighbors followed suit and vast quantities
of lime were applied, and the district has
developed into the most fertile area of South-
land. But lime can be obtained there for
about 12s. Gd. per ton, whereas it is 50s. or
so in Tasmania. Large sums of money are
being expended to assist the Tasmanian pro-
ducer, but probably in no direction would
expenditure yield better results than in
making supplies of lime available at a low
price.
On another farm where tests in the use
of a number of different manures had been
undertaken it was found that the only pay-
able return was to be obtained from 30 p.c.
potash salts. In many districts, of course,
phosphates are chiefly used, but basic slag
is frequently alternated with the super.
Another point noticed was that the land
is kept always in good heart by the use of
clover as a renovating crop.
DIPPING CATTLE.
“Agricola”: “Coolibali” (B. 30/10/’29)
sounds a very necessary warning to inex-
perienced settlers against dipping their
cattle in a mixture containing more than
21b. active arsenic to lOOgal.' water. Those
proportions represent the full standard
strength. He rightly states that ljlb. will
kill ticks; but with his statement that more
than 21b. will kill cattle I do not agree. I
have seen cattle dipped in fluid containing
anything from 21b. to 2Jib. without any loss
of, and with only trifling injury to, the
cattle. On one well-remembered occasion I
saw a dairy herd of 32 cattle put through a
mixture containing 31b. of active arsenic to
100 gal. water, and the owner lost not
a hoof. The worst that happened was a
hardening and wrinkling of the skin of the
escutcheon, udder and dewlap. The dip
through which these cattle were put was on
the owner’s property, so that the cattle had
not far to travel. After dipping they were
turned into a paddock containing abundance
of green feed, shade and running water.
Had these cattle been heated up through
being driven a long distance to the dip,
again driven a similar distance under a hot
sun, or packed closely in a cattle-waggon on
a railway journey, there would probably
have been a different tale to tell. Bullocks
working in a team appear to suffer rather
badly, even if dipped only in standard
strength. This is evidenced by the tongue-
ing, not on the first or second day after
dipping, but, curiously enough, on the third
or fourth day.
“Coolibah” especially stresses what he
considers the danger of dipping cattle twice
within the space of a week. But here again
there is a recognised margin of safety.
Departmental instructions provide that stock
owners, before removing their stock into
clean areas, must dip at intervals of not
less than five, or not more than ten,
days. The five-day arrangement has
frequently been availed of, without resultant
injury to the stock concerned. The usual
interval, however, is seven days.
The following formula represents the
standard or full strength, and is easily made
up on the farm or station. The writer’s
opinion is that 6 or 6J pounds of active
arsenic is sufficient for home use:—
Medicament.
Arsenious acid, 81b.; bone oil, 1 gallon; caustic
soda, 41b. ; water, 400 gallons.
(1) Mix BJlb. of commercial arsenic in its
powdered dry state intimately with 21b. of caustic
soda.
(2) Add 21b. caustic soda to 1 gallon of bone
oil. Heat for about 15 minutes, with constant
stirring; withdraw for five minutes and then, while
stirring, add cautiously the dry mixture No. 1.
(3) Now add hot water to make, on thoroughly
stirring, a thin homogeneous paste, and add cold
water up to 400 gallons.
Note. —Eight-and-a-half pounds of commercial
arsenic is recommended, as the amount contains
approximately 81b. of arsenious acid. If the arsenic
contains less than 94 p.c. of arsenious acid, a
correspondingly larger amount of arsenic is to be
weighed out.
PRINCIPLES OF IRRIGATION.
“C.J.Ii.”; In an open-textured, coarse-
grained soil there is very little lateral move-
ment of water applied. When such soils
are dry the water should therefore be moved
as rapidly as possible without washing to
ensure a soaking of the whole surface.
Otherwise the soil adjacent to the supply
ditch obtains an excess of moisture and
considerable quantities are lost by deep per-
colation that should have gone to the further
end of the run.
With a dry soil there is great hindrance
to percolation due to the air present in the
pore spaces. This is very noticeable in the
finer soils. These should not be allowed
to dry out badly, because of the difficulty of
ensuring a good distribution of water under
the dry surface. The upper pore spaces
become filled with water and the lower air
is imprisoned and hard to displace. This
resistance to percolation has its advantages
under certain conditions. When the head of
water is small and the fall slight, with long
distances to run, should the surface soil
be dry the water can be spread more rapidly
and evenly. Repeated attempts to irrigate
a moist piece of land under such conditions
of head and fall are often failures on account
of the water percolating faster than it could
be applied, with the result that the lower end
of the land remains dry.
This drying out has a lot to do with
plant failures. Many believe that the dry
atmosphere has something to do with it, and
point out that with the coming of rain, seeds
planted earlier spring up in a wholesale
fashion. The fact is that when the soil dries
out excessively there are shrinkage cracks
that extend into the lower soil, and with
heavy continuous waterings these cracks
form channels which take also the finer
soil-grains. The major portion of the water
is lost below by deep percolation, and the
channels and breaks prevent any upward
movement by capillary action. The remedy is
to water at intervals of a few hours. With
a steady continued soaking the soil expands
and fills the cracks, and displacement of
the air takes place. These repeated irriga-
tions form a “bottom” for further waterings.
The general idea is to imitate steady soaking
rains.
Bearing in mind these principles, the ad-
vantage of furrow irrigation over basin, in
orchards in particular, is evident. With
basin irrigation considerable labor is needed
to prepare the land and for the tillage neces-
sary after irrigating. The basin method
ensures a more even distribution, but on
many soils it spoils the texture by the settl-
ing of the finer soil particles and brings
about a puddled condition.
Furrow irrigation if well done gives very
nearly perfect sub-irrigation. The lateral
spread from furrows varies with the depth
more than with the texture of the soil.
Lateral spread is almost the same for sandy
loams as for clay loams, the time for the
spread, of course, being very different.
With furrows respectively lOin. and sin. in
depth, the water in the deeper furrows had
reached the second foot both laterally and
downward in the same time that it took
the shallower irrigation to reach the first
foot downward with very little lateral spread.
With proper care in spacing the furrow
method can bring about a fairly even dis-
tribution of moisture, with little destruction
of tilth. The water moving laterally draws
the finer particles into clusters by tension
and brings about a good crumb texture
below the dry surface between furrows. With
young trees the water may be led around
each tree in a ring furrow until such time as
a saturated cone of soil surrounds the tree. It
is advisable to keep the water away from
the butt of the tree. As the trees get
older the ring furrow may be enlarged until
later it may be dispensed with and the water
led along in furrows on either side of the
trees. Extra furrows in between these will
depend on the spacing of the tree rows.
No hard and fast rules as to quantities
of water to be supplied and the frequency
of application can be laid down. These
depend on the soils and sub-soils and the
annual rainfall.
DAIRY PROBLEMS AND OVERRUN.
“Aif Alpha” : Assume the herd to be pro-
ducing 30001 b. of milk weekly, with an aver-
age test of 4 per cent. fat. The milk is
converted into cream testing 30 per cent,
fat and the cream is churned into butter.
The dairyman wants to know: —
(a) The amount of cream testing 30 per cent, fat
which should be produced weekly.
(b) The amount of skim milk available.
(c) The amount of butter which could be made.
(d) The amount of buttermilk available.
Rule 1. —To find the amount of .cream in
1001 b. of milk. Multiply the percentage of
(Continued on page 32.)


IN THE M
IN
4
ALTTH ALL PAW
©
mms
r* O
oc
f
JO ■
uoc
lIP
•ih j ':, JV"7T?
&£k
'
wr s
32
Jo)
r/
L^.'Ve-
\
7.7^^7
\&
®i&
sg&
V
, »
-,-n.
v*V
;^3w
.•*
W.
THOSE who take Eno’s “Fruit
Salt” know the joy of a sparkling
morning draught which both stimu-
lates and invigorates. It starts you off
feeling that all’s right with the world.
More important Eno keeps you
feeling nght all day long. It increases
your zest for work and play.
For Eno promotes that perfect inner
cleanliness on which really good
health depends. It gently yet
thoroughly eliminates from the system
the food waste and poisons of yester-
day. It keeps the blood-stream clean
and vigorous. Eno contains no purga-
tive mineral salts, so that its regular use
does not form an indispensable habit.
Follow the lead of countless healthy
people all over the world—start your
day with a glass of water sparkling
with a dash of Eno’s “Fruit Salt.’
In two sizes at Chemists and Stores
ENOS
-FRUIT SALT
PREPARED ONLY BY J. C. ENO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND
Sale , Agents: THE BRITISH HAROLD F. RITCHIE at CO. LTD. SYDNEY, N. S.W.


Now a nation’s admiration
Marquette’s sterling perform
is reflected in an ever-groi
ownership list . ♦ ♦ ♦ .
THE Australian motorist is a
critical buyer . . . but he is
also an enthusiast when he
finds what he likes!
Because the new Marquette
quickly demonstrated unusual per-
formance ability, because it won its
spurs by the conquest of hitherto
unconquered Australian conditions,
Australia’s admiration went out to
the car and enthusiastic and wide-
spread ownership has followed.
To-day owner-drivers of Mar-
quette are duplicating the pheno-
menal performances which Mar-
quette was first to establish.
They are finding in this car, built
by Buick, sponsored by General
Motors, those abilities which
promise to fulfil every demand
Australian conditions can impose.
They are finding that in Mar-
quette, sterling performance brings
a new meaning to motoring plea-
sure, and a new measure of quality
to the field of modestly priced cars.
To see Marquette is to sense its
performance abilities, but an hour
on the road will be the most con-
vincing proof of the difference be-
tween ordinary and sensational per-
formance abilities.
Ma rauette
BUILT BY BUICK
p|e
\P.
and ifc a GENERAL MOTORS car


or
yce
ag
here is a Marquette dealer near
ready and happy to arrange a
lonstration.
Prices from £365
Sold and Serviced by Buick Dealers Everywhere
RRANTED FOR ONE YEAR
Convenient Payments can be arranged
on the liberal G.M.A.C. Terms Plan
FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER
ERAL MOTORS (Aust.) PTY. LTD.
ne - Sydney - Melbourne - Adelaide - Perth
- ; '
/
111
®i§ii
... &
' |
S 4
m
'
fit Mm
t
(]
«
r,v3 i’
-v <#>
fW jO
r ; A._y;r / ¥
/pv
5- ;X
a t
X\
■Of,
mi. f'
£3
lU!
<Li!3
* "
* .
, ill I lillii
IP^
■>
,XKX.v-;
;
■-a
JmKm
m
H
ifllfffflfglß
iU- * -
qBHHHI
■
M
X'
Q
gltpipg
X
a
■
a'. ' ■
11
%
■
ifi f
i m -
11l
,35
: X
H
1
. . a
■
i
I f
F
X.j
ill
m
11
■
■ s
mm
1


The boot of
strongest build
Doubled in thickness, both ol
sole and upper, the Abbey
Cossack is made of the
toughest leather obtainable
.... and without sacrifice of
that flexibility essential to com-
fort.
Its upper curves to accommo-
date the instep arch without
strain. The tongue, fastened
to the sides of the boot, makes
it more snug.... pads the foot
and keeps out grass seeds and
dust.
ORDER BY POST
Same sole leather used in all styles,
but the higher-priced tan boot has
an upper of special calf. Order,
also, the correct Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d. per tin), or one of the
handy new cleaning outfits (2/6
complete).
Tan Willow Calf, 46/6 & 41/6
Black Box Calf . . . . 39/6
New summer sporting catalogue post
free on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 Georgs St. and 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic address:—
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
FPL 154.
X
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed-
THINK OF
"H,
'W
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridje Street, Sydney.
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
No disease has caused more loss in sheep than Fluke,
yet for less than one-fifth of a penny per sheep this
can now be cured by the application of Carbon
Tetrachloride. This process has been tested by the
Agricultural Departments of various States in Aus-
tralia, and has received their endorsement. It
requires preparation and additions before it can be
applied to the sheep, and these are skilfully carried
out in
SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
1 pint tins ... 4/6 5/- each
1 quart tins . . 6/6 7/- each
POST Flllili OA r FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins . . 13/6 16/- each
DELIVERED NEAREST RAILWAY STATION
ON FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY., LTD.,
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
F\
a# B
m
j? zr*
■xzr
/
No skin trouble for
this youngster-or his
Mother. They use
Cuticura Soap and
Ointment and Talcum
-and Daddy uses
the Shaving Stick!
Cuticura
Soap Is., Ointment Is. and 2s.
Talcum Is. 3d. Sample each free.
Address: “R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S.W."
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/-per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
THE PATRIOT
■ DIRECTMEDIUM Tg WOMEN!
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
Educational.
SCOTCH COLLEGE,
TORRENS PARK, MITCHAM, S.A.
A BOARDING and DAY SCHOOL for
Boys. Headmaster, N. M. G. Gratton,
8.A., Dip. Ed. (Melbourne). Professional,
Commercial and Agricultural Courses.
Prospectus and further particulars may be
obtained from the Headmaster or the Sec-
retary, W. D. C. Paton, F.C.A. (Aust.),
A.M.P. Chambers, Adelaide.
ŵ
fat in the milk by 100, and divide the result
by the fat content of the cream. Applying
this rule to the case quoted, we get 4 (per
cent, of fat in milk) multiplied by 100
equals 400. Divide by 30 (per cent, fat in
cream) equals 13.34. That is, 13Jib. of
cream for every 1001 b. of milk. And 13J
x 30 ( 30001 b. of milk weekly) equals 4001 b.
of 30 per cent, cream produced weekly.
Rule 2.—To find the amount of. skim milk
per 1001 b. of milk. Find the amount of
cream, applying Rule 1, and subtract this
figure from 100.
In the above case 13Jlb. cream is pro-
duced from every 1001 b. milk, and 13J from
100 leaves 86flb. skim milk, which, multi-
plied by 30 ( 30001 b. of milk), gives 26001 b.
of skim milk produced by the herd weekly.
Rule 3. —To find the amount of butter
which could be produced. Find the amount
of fat in the milk (or cream) and multiply
by 1.17 (1.2 for cream). In the case of
30001 b. milk testing 4 per cent, we get 3000
multiplied by 4 and divided by 100 equals
120, This figure, multiplied by 1.17, gives
140.41 b. butter.
Rule 4.—To find the amount of butter-
milk per 1001 b. milk. Multiply the percent-
age of fat in the milk by 1.17, and subtract
ibis figure from the amount of cream
obtained from 1001 b. milk (applying Rule 1).
Working on the case quoted, we get 4 multi-
plied by 1.17 equals 4.68. This subtracted
from the cream (see Rule 1) 13.34 equals
8.661 b. buttermilk per 1001 b. milk. And as
we get 30001 b. milk from the herd weekly,
the amount of buttermilk available would be
8.66 by 30 equals 259.81 b.
The weight of butter produced from milk
or cream is always greater than the amount
of fat contained in the milk or cream, simply
because the butter contains (in addition to
the fat) water, salt and curd.
The amount of substances not fat is called
the “overrun” and may be ascertained by
finding the yield of butter from lib. of fat.
As the substances held in the fat are
liable to vary, the “overrun” varies, but,
under proper control, lib. of fat will produce
1.17 (1 1-6) lb. butter and the “overrun”
is, therefore, approx. 17 per cent. (In cream
it is a little higher—say, 20 per cent.) When
the “overrun” exceeds 17 per cent., or is
lower than 15 per cent. (20 and 18 in tin;
case of cream), something is wrong and
requires remedying, usually by checking the
fat percentage or increasing or decreasing
the moisture.
Rule 5. —To find the “overrun” when the
weight of butter made from a given amount
of milk (or cream) and the per cent, fat
in the milk (or cream) is known, find the
number of pounds of fat in the milk (or
cream) and divide the weight of butter by
this figure; then subtract 1 from the answer.
For example, to find the “overrun” in the
ease of milk testing 4 per cent, fat when
1351 b. butter is made from 30001 b. milk.
Then 4 by 30 equals 1201 b. fat in 300011).
milk; and'l2o divided into 135 equals 1.125.
This minus 1 equals 12.5 per cent., showing a
losing proposition, as the “overrun” is too low.
SUNFLOWERS.
“Bushman” : Too few farmers plant sun-
flowers. Sown between rows in the vegetable
garden, they give shade in summer, and
massed along the outside of a paddock
they make great shelter for other crops.
Anywhere maize will grow suits them,
and they are not too finicky about after-
treatment, but are all the better for a light
hilling up. If sown alone, about 81b. will
do, but the best way is to put a few drills
in amongst corn and pumpkins. The big
flower-faces will attract bees for miles.
In harvesting, pull up the whole plant, or
cut the seed-heads off with an old sickle. Be
sure the head is ripe, and yet not too ripe,
or much seed will fall out. Tapping the head
on the floor will dislodge the seeds. The
dry stalks, if thrown in a heap, will make
good compost. The seeds should he bagged
and can be fed either whole or ground into
a meal, and are suitable for all classes of
stock. They are rich in oil, are a great
fattener and produce a wonderful sheen in
the plumage of fowls. Too much, however,
is too fattening. Pigs relish an addition of
the seed or meal to their ration. A few
pounds of seed sown on any farm will give
a welcome addition to winter rations, and
cost only a few shillings. Look out for the
rats and mice where storing—they will chew
through anything to get sunflower seeds.
Also, seeds reserved for next year’s planting
want careful storing and watching to protect
them from weevils.
TEST YOUR EGGS.
“Silentio” : Don’t be frightened to test the
eggs in the incubator. My experience is that
the first test at the seventh day gives you the
“clears” ; they are still good for cooking, but
don’t attempt to market them if you value
your good trade name. The fourteenth day
yields all the broken germs; the doubtful
ones can run on to the eighteenth day, when
they should have a final look through. Get
out all the infertiles and leave all the room
you can for the eggs that have live chicks in
them. The partly fertilised and dead-in-the-
shell eggs make good feed for the pigs, so
are not all waste.
If you are running the incubator in a shed
that gets very cold in the mornings, burn a
small lamp or kerosene-heater. Sudden drop-
ping in temperature will make the hatch long,
and drawn-out hatches are never profitable.
Even the eggs under hens are better tested
too. It will give the chicks more room.
FRUIT AND TOMATO PULPS.
“XSA”: A ready market always exists
for fruit and tomato pulps, and growers
should immediately consider the possibili-
ties of a local co-operative effort. As it is
impossible to successfully dry or dehydrate
these products in coastal areas, the only
alternative during glut periods is pulping.
The capital outlay is very small, and if
properly processed the fruits will keep inde-
finitely. A very large business connection
awaits the plucky district which will inaugu-
rate this scheme and sell direct to house-
holders for jam-making and sauce purposes.
If supported by a pamphlet of instructions
as to the making of jams, conserves, pickles,
chutneys, etc., there will be no doubt as to
success, for the modern housewife does not
relish the pickings and handlings which are
incidental to home-made brands.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Is the Darling pea injurious to sheep?
If so, in what manner? (2) What are the
most dangerous species? —3697.
(1) Yes. Sheep which habitually eat these
herbs separate from the flock, wander list-
lessly about, eventually reach a stage of
delirium and frequently injure themselves by
jumping over imaginary obstacles. (2)
Swainsona grey ana, S. Initeola, S. galegi folia
and S. coronillifolia.
How to stop blood poisoning in sheep,
caused through being peeked by crows? —
3578.
Remove by dressing with a 5 per cent,
solution of hydrogen peroxide all foreign
material in and ai’ound the eye. Such dress-
ing should be carried out three times a day
for the first few days, and then twice and
once daily as the wounds improve. Prompt
application is essential.
A firm has a lien over a crop as security
for payment for an implement on hire-pur-
chase. A deposit of £5O was paid, and the
implement proved to lack durability and
was unsuitable for the work. Can the pur-
chasers return the machine , and, if so. are
they entitled to an allowance? —37os.
Unless the agreement includes a warranty
of suitability for the class of work to which
you put it, or a warranty of durability for any
given period, you have no claim to a refund.
(1) Main symptoms and causes of collar-
rot in citrus trees? (2) Preventive methods?
(3) How to eradicate the disease? —3714.
(1) The disease manifests itself most fre-
quently by “gumming” on the trunk just
above, or close to, the ground. In many cases
an examination of the area reveals dry and
brittle bark. In young trees there may be
yellowing of the leaves, especially on terminal
twigs, but with older trees this yellowing
may not appear until the tree has been
nearly ringbarked. It makes its inroads
through an injury or through water-logged
bark, and slowly accomplishes the ring-
barking of the tree if left unchecked. (2)
The union of the tree is sometimes a point
of entry, and should be kept well above
ground. Care should be taken to avoid
injury to the bark of trees, especially with
shovels and hoes when removing weeds. The
condition is favored and developed by bad
drainage, while moistness of the soil in
immediate contact with the trunk is also
undesirable. Under irrigation conditions it
is never necessary to run water right up to
the tree trunk, and this should be avoided.
(3) Where “gumming” is observed the earth
should be scraped away from the base of the
tree and the whole of the dried bark appa-
rently infected by the fungus should be cut
away with a pruning-knife and the wound
painted over completely with a paste made as
follows: 141 b. copper sulphate (bluestone),
41b. un.slaked lime, 1J gallon of water. The
lime should be slaked and brought to a pasty
condition with portion of the water; the
bluestone should be completely dissolved in
the remainder of the water, after which the
two solutions should be mixed. If the paste
dries a little on standing it should be brought
to the necessary thinness again by the
addition of a little more water. In cases
where collar-rot is too far advanced for the
tree to be saved by this treatment it should
be removed and burned, and the stump-liole
dry-limed before replanting the gaps. In
such cases it would be advisable to paint
the new tree with bluestone paste around the
“collar” prior to planting.
lloic to feed turkey chicks three weeks
01d?— 3562.
Give several feeds of moist mash (pollard
and bran) mixed with milk. It is also
advisable to add bone meal at the rate of
lib. to each 201 b. of mash. Cracked corn
may be given a couple of times a day, and
as the birds get older the mash feeds can be
reduced and the grain increased. To prevent
blackhead, the poults should be given ipecacu-
anha wine in the drinking water once a
week at the rate of a dessertspoon to the quart
of water, continuing till they “shoot the red.”
(1) Will alum, used to clear dam water,
harm plants? (2) What constitutes good
marketable rack hay, and to whom could
I submit samples with a view,to sale? —3512.
(1) No. (2) It should have a short, fine
straw of good color, with a large proportion
of grain to straw. Rack hay is handled by
Prescott, 365; A. Phillips, 119; Iverridge
and McMahon, 171; J. F. Ledgerwood, 168 —-
all of Sussex-street, Sydney.
(1) How to build concrete posts for
fencing. (2) Cost?. —3410.
(1) Write Australian Cement Manufac-
turers’ Ass’n, 14 Spring-street, Sydney, for
pamphlet No. 2. (2) Without labor, the cost
of making line posts averages lOd. each.
Intermediate strainers are about 2s. each,
and gate and corner-posts about 3s. 6d.
each. Spacing posts a chain apart, with
four droppers between, the cost per mile is:
Concrete posts, including strainers, £4 10s.;
Two miles barbed-wire, £5 125.; Tie-wire,
10s.; “T” droppers, £l6; total, £26 12s.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Amos”: When fitting either an axe- or
hammer-head to a handle, the hole in the
head should be well flared on the bottom
with a half-round file. If this is done the
handle will last much longer, as the operation
prevents the formation of a square shoulder,
which breaks the grain of the wood.
“E.W.”: Why go to all the trouble sug-
gested by “Waldial” (B. 20/11/’29) to
save tomato seed? Let the tomato rot, then
spread it over a newspaper, and, when
dry, stow it away. Next year lay the paper
in a seed-box and cover it with soil. The
watering will rot the paper. When
putting seed in boxes, make a layer of dry
cow-manure at the bottom. I have found
this much better than double-shifting.
“Toggle”: About the first thing a dairy-
man should do is to dust his offspring off
the milking stools. Children generally milk
badly, and bad milking very quickly means
bad yielding. On the other hand, a cow is
a reasonable beast, and if you impress on
her that you want a lot of milk and want
it in a hurry, she does her best to oblige.
In the language of Solomon there are three
things that should be in every milking yard ;
yea, four: a woman, to make ashamed the
men; milking machines, that weary not in
well-doing; a cheap gramophone; and an
unfailing supply of good temper. Cows
respond to atmosphere.


I
When your friend is complimenfed on his socks and
says that they are "Merino-Knit,” do you say "That’s
just what I wear ? ” If you do, you are wearing the best
in quality, colour and design. "Merino-Knit” Cardigans
and Sweaters are just as pleasing and satisfactory
as " Merino-Knit ” Men’s Hose.
'm I
mm
RAMEJVO"
BBAiVD
EMNO-KMT’
“RAMENO ” Brand
Men’s Half Hose
JJ
"Merino-Knit” Half Hose and Golf
Hose are made of Pure Australian
Merino Wool entirely, or, in the
lighter weight Half Hose, of Merino
and the best English Artificial
Silk. The colours are carefully
chosen to tone with present-
dag fashions for men.
"Merino-Knit” Half Hose is
made to fit snugly round the
ankles and firmly on the legs,
ensuring the acme of comfort
and smartness.
Ask for "Merino-Knit "
Garments Stocked by
all good Mercers.
MERINO WOOLLEN MILLS
PTY. LTD.
COLLING WOOD. VIC.
‘Always fit"
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
ẁ
To those visiting America by the
Matson-Oceanic Line a wonderful
opportunity offers itself to see
first hand some of Nature’s
grandest masterpieces.
One of the most striking features
of this remarkable country is the
vastness of everything. Its huge
cities teeming with live, interest-
ing and industrious populations;
its lordly mountains; its seem-
ingly never-ending rivers; its
ocean-like lakes; and, not least of
all, its stupendous engineering
achievements.
Among the most interesting and
magnificent of these latter fea-
tures is the huge Roosevelt Dam,
a splendid enterprise which has
brought fertility to the once arid
wastes of Arizona.
A matchless motor tour of the
famous Apache Trail, taking in
the heart of Arizona and the
Roosevelt Dam, Canyon Lake, the
Apache Cliff Dwellings of prehis-
toric interest and a hundred other
lordly scenes —is open to the Mat-
son-Oceanic traveller who takes
this shortest route to America.
S.S. SIERRA S.S. SONOMA S.S. VENTURA
SAILING EVERY THIRD SATURDAY
For Suva, Pago Pago, Honolulu and San Francisco. Special Cheap Excursion
Tickets issued to Honolulu all the year round.
HiK NIEAMfIMIP ©@ a
Matoon Line
12 Bridge Street, Sydney
Bocal Agents: Mcllwaith McEacharn Ltd,, 94-96 William St., Melbourne; 117-119 King
illiam St., Adelaide; Fremantle, Perth, Albany; Howard Smith Ltd., Brisbane, Townsville
W rite for descriptive
pamphlets, fare lists,
sailing dates, etc.
Name
Address
r
m
/
/r*
m
VPOr.
rur n
“Off/,
cen
•Oti
f *V*
Be PLeadu
udtha
re##.
FIRE
EXTINGUISHER
Country homes are far from Fire Brig-
ades and particularly need fire-fighting
equipment. Where kerosene lights and
oil engines are used the danger is doubly
great. Have a “Pyrene” Fire Ex-
tinguisher handy! It needs no attention
until used, and refils are always obtainable: It
is many times as effective as water, and will ex-
tinguish petrol fires, which water will not.
Works like a pump. Standard Model, with
chemical and Bracket for fitting to wall: 70/-
(Brass) and 75/- (Nickel). Write for Folder
T'B ”
HARRISONS RAMSAY Pty. Ltd
666 Bourke St., Melb.; Grenfell St., Adelaide,
52 Clarence St.. Sydney; Adelaide St., Brisbane;
A.M.P. Buildings, William Street, Perth
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN"
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original#
waif-ft puirnay oj,
Duofold Pen alone,
from 25/-; Duofold
Pencils alone, from
ẅ
Distributors:
] SLADE, ALLAN & CO. LTD.
Princeton House, 235 Clarence St., Sydney 513


7hp cen/ne of Queens/ono/s
aZ
c/tsfthgutsfrGc/ Soc/oi Lire .
ŵ
mom
BRISBANE
Magnificent
room. Palm
B a 11-
Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780—10 Lines.
Christmas in Sydney.
Early Booking is desirable, but it should be mentioned that our
Accommodation is equal to practically all the demands placed
upon it. Should we be booked (out at some busy season
when you may apply, we will gladly arrange the next
best available accommodation. a
J'jWJI
l&i
JoTTTT] iii l
■ mm
Bh_ll H IL LL LILILILI
|n —II —B IL LL L ILILILI
IILIL.ILIL LL [ ILLILI
gUULI.L LL L ILILIuK'
■"-ILIULiUULILILi
*~* r S B I
-s
Illustrated Booklet on
Request.
Telegraphic, Wireless
and Cable Address:
“Austraotel a
Sydney.”
ẁ
A
A
isJ
y
THE AUSTRALIA
Capital Paid-up, £422,100.
THE HOTEL OF THE COMMONWEALTH. SYDNEY.
m
iw:
3
r
SGROSVENOR
ADELAIDE'S FINEST UNLICENSED MOTEL
The most attractively located hotel
in Adelaide. The new railway sta-
tion is at your door; every transit
facility close by. Fireproof, 300
rooms, 100 bathrooms, spacious
lounge, faultless service, yale
lock on every door.
NORTH TERRACE.ADELAIDE.
SMOKE-OH!
THE NEW SCHOOL.
Does this mean you? Is your mind a
blank? If not, why not? Don’t be a plug.
Train your mind to forget and become a
power in the land. Some of the most pro-
mising blankards in this country owe their
blanky success to our special course in
forgetfulness. We help you to forget your
baker, butcher, tailor, taxation papers and a
thousand and one petty irritations that beset
the path of the ambitious. Read this and
think:—
Dear Sirs, —After the first of your wonderful
lessons I completely ignored all requests by my
creditors for a settlement. Your second lesson con-
verted my mind into an absolute blank. It was
during the third lesson that I so far forgot myself
that I stood for Parliament. My remarkable success
as a politician is due to your splendid system en-
abling me to forget every darned promise I ever
made.—Yours in gratitude, Blowbags, M.L.A.
Enclose price of one Imperial pint and pros-
pectus will be forwarded at once.
The Blanky School of Blank
Forgetfulness.
D. McM., Principal.
—[Advt.]
* *
“Man Waits Five Years.” —Melbourne Herald.
She probably came up and said : “I'm not
very late, am I, dear?”
HIS GUESS:
THE IGJNORANT: “I wonder why women
make up.”
THE WISE: “For lost time, I suppose.”
ŵ
DEFECT.
He's not the clean potato quite,
Though honest over splosh;
The tales he tells his wife each night
Arc ones that never wash.
y y
The Federal Government’s new Budget
proves that it is determined to keep Aus-
tralia’s spirits up in spite of the business
depression.
y y
There’s not a girl will condescend
To speak to our pal Joe;
He hasn’t got a female friend,
Although he wants one so;
He’s handsome and of splendid build
And isn’t swelled of head;
Alas, his hopes have all been killed—
No girl with him will wed.
lie has tried hard, but it’s no good.
They’re so particular,
So Joe’s condemned to bachelorhood —
He can’t afford a car!
y y
Some women keep their birthdays up:
others try to live theirs down.
y y
“Mt. Head”: I know of a man who las'
Christmas Eve sneaked to his
children’s bedside, only to dis-
cover that he had forgotten the
toys. He’s a plumber by trade.
y y
“Lindrum Again Triumphant."
It’s a queer case altogether. The
bigger the breaks in his career,
the sooner he succeeds.
y y
A large number of silver spoons disap-
peared during afternoon-tea when the Fed-
eral Parliament was opened. It is sug-
gested that the Whips were making their
preparations for stirring times during the
session.
REMARKS YOU SELDOM HEAR.
The Poet : “Damn these editors ! Do they
i\ver reject anything? ..Life’s just a mono-
tonous rush from bank to bank cashing the
cheques they pay with I”
The Actor : “Pshaw! Another of those
fawning critics ! Why the devil
can’t they say sometimes that
my acting is mediocre?*’
The Actress : “No, I am
sorry, but I can’t be photo-
graphed again this year.”
The Bookmaker : “I can’t
lay you that horse; he’s in the
bag!”
The Politician : “Well, I
may not be even a statesman’s
bootlace, but you can’t say I
didn’t know how to feather my
own nest!”
The Lawyer : “No, no; I
lost you the case, so there will
be no legal fees!”
Rob. P.
ẃ
TRAGEDY.
Basil Scratcher’s white teeth bared in
a sudden snarl. This was murder; but no
one else would ever know it. Calmly help-
ing himself to a whisky and soda, he smil 'd
grimly as he reflected upon the mess he had
made of things. Striding swiftly to the table,
“ GERROUT! TH' WHOLE DAM’ PACK
OF YER!”
he grabbed the MS. and ripped it into
plireds. , Basil, .freelance, had murdered a
good idea.
D. McM.
Because the girl he loved admired tall
men, a man in Paris paid 5000 francs r.o
a charlatan who undertook to increase his
stature.- He was prepared, it seems, to go
to any length to win her.
* #
THE CASH LIMIT.
Poor Mary had a little frock.
’Twas very, very low.
It only went, as far, in fact,
As Mary’s cash would go.
* *
The leather market is to be pretty well
supplied presently, judging by the number of
New York Stock Exchange bulls that have
been skinned.
* *
NAKED TRUTH.
Half an inch, half an inch, half an inch
shorter,
Skirts are the same for mother and daughter.
When the winds blow
What do they show?
Not a bit more than the boys think they
ougliter !
¥ #
* A glasshouse covering four acres is to be
built at Ryde (N.lS.W.). Th,e Dwners
expect to be kept very busy for the first 12
months, and warn visitors that anyone who
drops in casually will be cut.
“Only fast dyes are salable nowadays.”
Yes, even in dying you have to move pretty
slick to keep up with the modern woman.
* *
NATURE NOTE.
Up along the far nor’-west coast of Australia
is ideal territory for a Jewish settlement,
because dugong, the flesh of which is superior
to the best dairy-fed pork, abound in those
waters. They are so plentiful that a Chinese
cook could whistle them into the kitchen,
where they could be brained handily with
the brass balls of Eombardy.
J. B.
AFTER TENNYSON.
Sunset and evening star,
And one clear call for me!
I’ve left them moaning at the bar,
Whilst I push home for tea!
D. McM.
* *
“Alderman Accidentally Shot.” —S. M. Herald.
It is our secret contention that his condi-
tion was brought about by design rather than
accident, this thirsty weather!
“Mr. Bond (Pt. Fairy), appealing for re-election,
said he had faithfully carried out his promises to
his coinstituents.” — Argus.
Yes, the poor blighters'that all the money
comes from.
# *
“Women in the Air.” —Argus.
Yes, nowadays they bob everywhere.
WASTE O' TIME.
I only arst fer ’alf a crown,
An’ cripes! there wuz a fuss!
It niakes a feller feel a clown
II hen ’e is treated thus.
It icasn’t if I’d wanted more —
It mighter been a quid,
Or two, or three or even four,
Ter buy a decent lid.
But I got jist a nasty look
From lips so ’ard an’ firm;
I felt as if I’d been forsook
When I wuz called a worm.
I let her see I was enraged,
I smote her with me freezin’ frown;
For what’s the use of bein’ engaged
If she won’t lend yer ’alf a crown?
DORIC.
AN IDYLLIC EXISTENCE.
“Fairy fanning is more prosperous on the Northern
Rivers than anywhere else in Australia.”
—Evening News.
A fairy-farmer I would be
If I might be just what I like;
Now that this game is known to me,
All others give my heart the spike.
I’d feed my fairies on lushlandsj
And strays amongst the lilies seek,
Clip tresses, manicure their hands,
And wash them gently once a week.
For blonde arid brunette equal care
Would I display, and deem ivork ease.
Oh, how can I —and when, and where —
Become a fairy-fanner, please?
HAMER.
HIS FAVORITE DISH.
I try out all the recipes
In my cookery-book,
But hubby says I’ll never make
A really first-class cook.
I don’t use the ingredients
To give a pungent flavor,
And so, he says, I’ll never learn
The way to curry favor.
SYEELL.
THE TALE OF A DOG'S NOSE.
A toper chose
A Poodle's Nose,
And then he had another;
With vision blurred
He gulped a third,
“Dull care,” he said, “to smother.”
With four and five, -
Senses alive,
He boldly courts disaster;
Anon to wake,
Lone and a-shake,
In iodine and plaster.
D.B. O'C.
WHO OWNS THE MILLENNIUM?
Poor old Santa Claus was having a try-
ing time getting together all the things that
mortals wanted for Christmas. He had
dropped in to tell his troubles to St. Peter.
“The game’s getting harder every year,
Peter,” he said. “I can generally get any-
thing that is asked for, but two blokes at
Canberra, Scullin and Theodore, have got
me stumped. They want the Millennium for
Christmas. I’ve never even heard of it.
Have you?”
“Never,” said St. Peter. “But drop in
on old Nick. It might be part of his stock.”
ANGUS O'COHEN.
He thought he’d got his daughters married
off,
And walked about with such a cheerful
grin;
But ichen the neighbors all commenced to
scoff
• He found instead that sons had married in.
DORIC.
HELEN.
I told her that my love was real
And gave a ring as well
Since then, alas, she’s made me feel
* That I have tolled my knell!
POM.
THE MYSTERY OF METHUSELAH.
A search through back files of the Meso-
potamian Morning IIeuai.u reveals no
obituary notice of that remarkable citizen
Methuselah. Contemporary gibes seem to
suggest that the M.M.H. deliberately ignored
the passing of the world’s oldest inhabitant
owing to non-receipt of the usual death
announcement —at a shekel for three lines.
Not so its rivals. Under the heading “A
Thousand Years Old: Old Meth. Passes
the Euphrates Guardian said: “John Henry
Methuselah, known throughout the district
where he lived as ‘Old Meth.,’ was reputed
to be 1000 years old when knocked down
and instantly killed by a hit-and-run chariot-
driver yesterday. The ancient lost heavily
in the recent disastrous Flood, and was never
the same man afterwards. Papers found in
his pocket—
' The Girl and the Golliwog. Revolting
conduct of Prominent Society girl. You
can read all about it in to-day’s Melchise-
dec’s Weekly
—indicated that he was a regular subscriber
to the Guardian, and his heirs will there-
fore be entitled to claim under the Guardian
Free Insurance Scheme £15 0s. lid.”
And thus the Mesopotamia Sen: “A week
ago he was working in his garden, old but
tense, alert, clear-eyed, willing to talk to any
interested stranger of roses, the Communist
peril and the steady increase in the price of
liquor. To-day the garden looks empty, de-
serted. The flowers droop their heads as if in
mourning. Flags at the local vineyard are
at half-mast. On Monday last one who has
been esteemed by his friends for many hun-
dreds of years passed beyond human ken.
William Samuel Methuselah, reputedly the
oldest man in the world, is the latest victim
of our traffic problem. He was picked up
and taken to the Jaffa General Flospital.
where life was pronounced extinct. An
arrest was made this afternoon.”
The Babylonian News also featured the
matter under the heading: “World’s Oldish
Inhabitant: Debt of Mr. Methuselah.
Said to be 902 years of age, Mr. Arthur
E. Methuselah, a prominent city man until
several centuries ago, when he retired, and
SAFETY FIRST.
ADAM (henpecked, to surgeon of the
period ): “Would you mind taking out
the rest of my ribs ? I don’t like to
risk getting any more wives.”
w
H.


ẃ
ẅ


w
YOUR OPPORTUNITY
Policies effected under participating
Tables in the Ordinary Department by
31st December
WILL SHARE IN THE CASH
SURPLUS FOR THE YEAR.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
On 30th June, 1929, distributed over THREE
MILLION POUNDS in Cash amongst participating
members in the Ordinary Department.
Assets - - - £74,000,000
F. T. BRIDGES, Acting General Manager.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
There are seven
reasons why
X.
1
Guinness
IS GOOD FOR YOU
4***==^
No. 2
FOR
NERVES
Guinness is good
for “nerves.” It
contains phos-
phates and other
valuable natural
constituents.
A glass of Guinness at dinner or
supper, or upon going to bed, is
wonderfully soothing and rebuilds
the nerves while you sleep.
Guinness is a delicious beverage,
preserving the natural virtues of the
hops, malt and yeast from which it
is brewed.
N.B.—One pint of Guinness Foreign Extra Stout has a malt
carbohydrate content equal to one and a half pints of pure dairy milk.
A MEDICINE CHEST IN ITSELF/
1
* T can A KC' Blt
• v.
' horto *££«
7^t a J ?**% '*?£%**%:
*JfSn.ff«S-*■£**> t
\/ s ,i 4 theft a t the ** ■p c z,etft^ lS
)oft t % vV w, Re%° na at tnett l &TJ vS the
sK »i"% “3
******
M tne on d cehs» , thaft
uSS f rt stao to iotm lot E^fftealei.
SSa-. oQ be «e t .«*££ <* Stf&
' lV ' ete dSssto? 6
«et ilo -?,\e a \*»V s
StlfSS®
Mi'S
yriw
00
**&££££*?&%» arA Jt=*
sus^sHS-
K»d'-*9 b
jpl/V


IT ISN’T A
MAGNAVOX
IT ISN’T A
. DYNAMIC
(With • bow to KodtbJ
THE ORIGINAL DYNAMIC SPEAKER
Australia’s Fastest Selling Speaker A Leader in All States
Dynamic Unit A.C. Modei
£7/15/-
Dynamic Unit D.C. Model
£5/15/-
“Your Radio pleasure
depends on the Speaker”
Demonstration will Convince You.
Obtainable All Radio Dealers
SI
*#
Cruising to
JAVA and
SUMATRA
First-class round fare to Belawan
Deli (Sumatra), calling at Java ports,
Singapore and Penang: From Brisbane
and Sydney, £ 99; from Melbourne,
£lO5.
The K.P.M. invites, you to wonder and wander in Java and
Sumatra, islands of exotic attractions.
Glorious days at sea, the comforts and conveniences of the
great Liners Nieuw Holland and Nieuw Zeeland will be a
delightful holiday for you. .
The steamer is your hotel for the round voyage of seven weeks.
Full particulars from
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION COMPANY
(K.P.M. Line),
255 George Street, Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., 11l William Street, Melbourne; Dalgety & Co., Brisbane;
Elder, Smith & Co., Adelaide and Perth.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your fancy, write
to the Manager, who will quote you price for the original
#
The Centre of Tasmania’s
Progress and Prosperity.
“THE EXAMINER” is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricul-
tural, Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
“THE EXAMINER” has been published in Launceston
for 87 years, and is still the family newspaper of
Northern Tasmania.
w.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from:
R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd., Mr. V. W. Margetts, Mr. W. G. Dougan,
73-75 Patterson Street, 122 Flinders Street, 726 Herald Building,
Launceston. Melbourne. 66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Pen and Picture
The
STARE
THEATRES
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
Shadow Shows
“Woman Trap” (Paramount) is yet
another crime talkie aided by yet another
forgotten revolver left lying about. Heavy
with mother-, brother-, lover- and duty-love, it
is American sentimentalism rampant; but as
about half the dialogue is smothered in
atmospheric noises, it is not boring. Dan
Malone, carefree plainclothes detective in the
EVELYN BRENT.
siu m s, who
will not arrest
anyone, might
have asked
Kitty Evans
to marry him
if a break had
occurred in
their eternal
squabbles,
mostly caused
by their two
young brothers
—h is, Ra e,
just a young
scamp; hers,
Eddie, a boot-
legger. Sundry
causes harden
Dan, including
a little bomb-
ing intended
to strike ter-
ror into him.
After it Eddie
is _ a r r e sted,
third - degreed
and hanged;
whereupon Kitty, in bloodcurdling tones,
swears revenge upon Dan. Then Rae, who
has graduated sufficiently to be doing a
stretch, escapes and goes to Kitty, who rings
up Dan’s envious assistant, and thus ensures
Dan having to arrest his own brother. Then
she relents, and tries to arrange Rae’s
escape; but Dan’s assistant corners both
Rae and Dan and insists upon Dan doing the
arresting. The problem of “He is my poor
younger brother; can I arrest him?” is
solved by Rae retiring into another room
and polishing himself off with the over-useful
neglected revolver. At this stage Dan’s
envious assistant registers deep remorse, and
fades away, leaving Dan and Kitty gazing
romantically through the doorway at the
corpse. The picture has one merit—action.
Evelyn Brent is the lady.
“Clear the Decks” (Paramount) is a
talking comedy of a familiar brand. Regi-
nald Denny provides some mild amusement
by running about without his trousers.
Another picture which The Bulletin sur-
veyed earlier in the day employed the same
device. _ This is another illustration of
the ancient adage that great minds often
think alike. The plot! concerns a man who,
for health reasons, is advised to travel
and live on goats’ milk; so the appropriate
animal is taken on an ocean liner. Nothing
happened on the voyage, however, to dispel
the atmosphere of gloom that settled round
this normally cheerful paper shortly after
the picture started.
“Big Time,” a talking and singing effort
by Fox, is the usual backstage story about
the girl who warbles a foolish song with
five times the effect that Dal Monte ever
created with “Caro Nome” because her little
heart is breaking. Lee Tracy helps it to
be more satisfying by being quite intelligible
and frequently very funny. Stepin Fetchit,
the negro who exploits his nation’s whin-
ing ways of speech, is another feature.
Fetchit, however, hasn’t more strings to his
style than a ukulele, so he threatens to
become monotonous.
The Bulletin remembers a better film
version of Longfellow’s “Evangeline” than
the United Artists’ sound production. Long-
fellow’s verses are not the present writer’s
idea of an epic poem, but the picture suc-
ceeds in pulling it down a further peg
or two artistically. Dolores Del Rio is
the shrinking French girl whom the brutal
British tear from the bosom of her family
without regard for either personal feelings
or historical accuracy. According to the com-
petent authorities on this section of Ameri-
can history, General Lawrence was careful
to provide that the rebellious settlers of
Nova Scotia should be evicted with the least
possible amount of domestic disruption. The
incident was not particularly creditable to
British statesmanship, but Hollywood’s
methods of piling on the agony suggests
anti-British propaganda rather than a desire
to interpret Longfellow. As Evangeline the
Del Rio displays all the self-restraint of a
dog with a tin tied to its caudal appendage.
The plain, unvarnished story is poignant
enough; United Artists’ not only varnish it,
but dazzle-paint it with freaky sentiment
and gaudy emotion.
Tn “Illusion” (Paramount) the good-
looking Nancy Carroll is, with Buddy Rogers
for partner in -a conjuring turn, engaged to
perform at the mansion of an ex-truckdriver
millionaire, at the moment entertaining a
Queen who is in search of funds. Nancy is
so fond of her sleek partner that she accepts
a thin excuse from him and goes on without
him to do their duo turn- as a solo, and gets
her first shock when she finds that he has
engineered himself into a place at the dinner
table beside the Queen. She gets another
when she finds that Buddy has taken up with
the millionaire’s daughter, and counters —it
being a good democratic country—by listen-
ing to.the millionaire’s son. H'er heart, how-
ever, remains Buddy’s, and she is soon part-
ner in another turn. Hearing of this. Buddy
goes into the wings to watch her —as it
happens, on the night she had chosen to
quit the cold world by simply leaving the
fake bullets of the turn in the dressing-room.
The fakes are found—-too late! The squad
has fired, and poor Nancy has fallen to the
boards. Happily, they were a poor lot,
of shots. Melodrama, fair enough of its
kind.
The Inky Way
December Art in New Zealand is miles
ahead of anything previously managed in
that quarterly. In it the Maori is exploited
for much of his picturesque wealth —of art,
music, ornament, carving, clothing and
appearance. Articles on these topics, a
Maori lullaby by Eileen Duggan, paintings
and photographs help to illustrate the
strength of the background that lies behind
Maoriland artistic effort.
“Alwyn”: J. M. Forde, The Bulletin’s
“Oldest Inhabitant,” is to have his memory
preserved after an unusual fashion. A set
of press clippings, including 1089 articles
penned by him, has been acquired from his
widow by the Sydney Municipal Library.
Bound in four volumes and indexed, they
will be available for reference.
“Spare Sub.”: Some of the Sydney papers
excelled themselves in describing the invasion
of the city by the Malolo party. One writer,
who went looking for Hollywood Americans,
found himself in the cloistered seclusion of
a lounge containing trippers who “might
have smoked cigars In a Conservative club
beneath the portraits of Disraeli and Glad-
stone.” A happy touch, and the omission
of any reference to painted presentments of
Bright and Bradlaugh is pardonable.
Another went into rhapsodies over business
men with “the rigid reserve of Throgmorton-
street.” Anyone who has seen the broking
fraternity “on the floor” or “on the kerb”
in that famous locality when the bears are
busy will appreciate the phrase.
The Palette
For the Christmas shopper whose fancy
more or less lightly turns to thoughts of
pictures there is a wide range of choice in
Melbourne. At the Sedon Galleries is a
show of etchings, woodcuts and lithos, by
Zorn, Rembrandt, Napier Waller. D. G.
Cameron, the Lindsays (Norman and
Lionel), Van Raalte, Gobo, Ure Smith, Gallop
and others. In its somewhat confined quarters
the Beaux Arts is displaying a small selec-
tion of the romantic oils of Murray Griffin,
most of them only impressions, but some
displaying a fine poetry. Wood Wilson,
who labors heavily in oils to produce a
highly-polished but uninteresting mirror of
the cosmos, is on exhibition at the Little
Gallery.
“F.S.”: At the auction of Henry Young’s
collection of pictures in Melbourne a very
ordinary painting of some sheep by T.
George Cooper (1879) fetched 110 guineas.
On the other hand, a small landscape by
Old Chrome, founder of the famous Nor-
wich school, went for guineas. It would
have brought three figures in any London
salesroom.
Clarice Beckett, whose work is repre-
sented at the Athemieum, Melbourne, does
not subscribe to the doctrine of the tourist
bureaus that Australia is equipped with only
one sort of. weather. She revels in cool, grey
foggy mornings and soft ingratiating twi-
lights, and has a knack of finding charming
natural arrangements composed of, say, a
telegraph-pole providentially balanced by a
passing motor-car. But modest as the prices
are, one doubts if the lady is iikely to be-
come a best-seller. What the average pic-
ture fancier demands from a painting is
release from the sordid wheel of life; in
other words, he needs romanticism. Miss
Beckett’s seashores are artistically beautiful,
but they are so like the seashores every-
body knows that they are likely to set the
spectator pondering the sandflies, the mos-
quitoes, the shakedown on the billiard-table
and the landlady with the long nose, the
longer bill and the unconscionable list of
extras. Miss Beckett’s versions of Australia
are unique, however, and posterity may place
a higher value on them.
“Berra”: Elioth Gruner has returned to
Sydney with a new group of landscapes
painted during a camping expedition in the
Murrumbidgee Valley. A shack was allotted
to him on the Triggs property, near Tamaes
Bridge, and Gruner made the most of his
opportunities. Probably his best effort is
an arresting thing in blue, yellow and grey
that smacks more of the Colorado (U.S.)
country than of the satrapy of the Sculli-
dores.
“Max” : The Royal Art Society of N.S.W.
recently issued a folder advertising its “Fifty
Years of Australian Art.” A reproduction
of S. H'. Power’s “The Plough” depicts three
splendid drauglit-horses drawing a small bush
harrow up a hill.
A TENT-AND A FLY.
“Another bush poet with a city address.”
-—Answers to Correspondents.
Give me a tent!
I’m done with these bards of the town.
Give me a tent
And an old chaff-bag eiderdown.
I’m done with Bohemian suppers
Of beer and rich, red saveloys.
With authors who walk on their uppers,
And critics who wear corduroys.
Give me a tent,
A handful of straw for my hip,
I’m affluent;
So much so I’ll hand you a tip:
Ye writers who owe your landladies,
Ye poets in search of a theme,
Consign all your scribblings to Hades
And get you a tent by a stream.
Give me a tent.
The sun’s falling into the lake,
In its descent
A riot to make your heart ache.
How I long to commit it to paper
(There’s bacon and flour I must buy) !
Ah! Now here’s the moon for a taper.
I’ll do it—Aw, gimme a fly!
VICTORIA.
BARNEY.


ŵ
SO universal, so uniform, so
unstinted has been the
admiration accorded the 1930
Buick that it can almost be said
that the car compels attention.
Even though to see this new
Buick is to sense its inherent
brilliance, there is an urge to
drive this car if only to match
its performance with its beauty.
On that basis thousands have
discovered that the 1930 Buick
is every bit as good as it looks.
Out of countless demon-
stration runs has come one
uniform result .. . the driver’s
expression of Buick suprem-
acy judged in terms of new,
smoother, effortless road per-
formance of safety and de-
pendability, best summed up
in the word “brilliance.”
No matter how high your
previous conception of Buick
performance, of Buick value,
you will undoubtedly revise
those standards when you see
and drive the 1930 Buick...
the finest product of a builder
whose previous productions
have maintained Buick in the
position of leadership for 26
years.
PRICES from <£445.
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR.
SERVICE EVERYWHERE.
Convenient payments can be arranged on the liberal G.M.A.C .
Terms Plan.
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
General Motors
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Brisbane - Sydney - Melbourne - Adelaide - Perth
BUICK
a
1030
e' nears
• 1/9
nuance
rmce
it’s a General Motors car


ŵ
LTD
PTY
THE GUN PEOPLE,
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
You must try this
LIGHT BEER
RESCH’S
PILSENER
A Drink to Delight You
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
When times become normal again the
electric railway will make a great difference
to attendances at Warwick Farm. The
journey from Sydney can now’ be accom-
plished in half an hour or so; it often took
an hour in the old days of steam. To
moody punters going home after a bad day
it sometimes felt like three hours.
Sons and daughter of Rossendale were con-
spicuous on the first day of the latest meet-
ing at the A.,T.C.’s charming course—it
lasted two days. Rosendo, Raisin, Black
Douglas and Golden Music, who won their
respective races, are all by the English
sire, and all were well backed. So were
Western Lass, who got away with the 10-fur-
longs handicap, after several recent failures,
and Clan David, winner of the second divi-
sion of the Maiden Handicap (he is a gelded
son of David and Fluency, both great horses
in their day), but Kilumirri, by Cooltrim —
Virtu, gave the ringmen a turn in the first
division. They quoted him at 25 to 1 (at
least, those who don’t make 15 to 1 their
limit), but his dividend on the grandstand
tote was £l9 Is. for 10s., with two divs. to
come out of the pool.
“Another Rampion,” was the cry when
Rosendo carried off the Nursery Handicap,
but the latest result of the liossendale —
Royal Pet mating is apparently far from
being that. He was never sighted during
the- running of the Kirkham Stakes, for
which, he was favorite along with Longwood,
who has won up the Flemington straight.
Alberic (5 to 1) was always in front, though
Jimmy Munro, who rode him, drew the out-
side position; Tdrtana (8 to 1) was second
and Longwood third, the time being lmin.
Isec. Alberic belongs to and was bred by
Sydney warehouseman Leslie Barnett, owner
of Greenline; he is by imported Cistercian—
Rueco. It is too early to pronounce him a
Derby possibility but he may stay better
than Holdfast did.
J. E. Brien, who races Rosendo, was
represented by a winner, but the public
wished he hadn’t been. H'is mare Panola
(Rossendale —Pansy) just pipped a stable-
mate, Casque d’Or, at the finish of the Cam-
den Handicap, and the stable-mate was a
warm favorite. Again the machine paid a lot
better than the bag—£3l 10s. 6d. for 10s.
with two other divs., as against 33 to 1 in
places—not many. Why doesn’t the N.S.W.
Government take the hint and give people
a straightout tote (and a doubles tote as
well), instead of compelling them to accept
false odds'?
The December Handicap saw Maorilaud-
bred horses add to their remarkable record
in handicaps over a distance this season.
Star God, who outstayed his rivals, hails
from across the Tasman, and so do The
Banker (second) and Papatu (third). By
Martian —Star Lady, Star God is a five-year-
old brother to Star Stranger, winner of tin;
1927 Metrop. Unluckily beaten in the
Queensland Cup, he was placed on the easy
list/ afterwards, so he was allowed to go out
at eights and tens in a field of eight. Last
early, he finished vigorously for Johnstone,
who had ridden Panola, and came home a
length and a quarter ahead of The Banker
in 2min. 30sec. for the 12 furlongs. He is
now a strong order for the Summer Cup.
Munro completed a good meeting for him by
getting a race out of Ilabashon (5 to 2) in
the Moorebank Handicap.
* $ * *
For Rosehill on Saturday:—
Maiden Three-year-old Handicap: Palm-
dale ; next, Bacampton.
. Corinthian Gup: Sir Tarsia; next, Black
Douglas. .
Flying Handicap: Gesto; next, Beckwith.
December Handicap: Patadawn; next,
Starpoi. ? . .
Parramatta Mile: Gipsy King; next, Bav-
acre.
5* Sit * *
The Moonee Valley (Vic.) meeting in aid
of the V.R.C. Benevolent Fund was highly
successful. A noticeably bigger percentage
of members forked out for admission at the
gates; even in charity’s cause, the average
season-ticket holder abominates reducing him-
self to the public level. Punters at first
declared for Patroleus in the Hurdle Race,
but transferred allegiance to Research, who
possesses heaps of pace, but is a novice
jumper. Jack Smith, who many years ago
landed a Caulfield steeplechase on Galway
after his mount had fallen, trains Patroleus.
He was doubtful whether the Patrobas geld-
ing would see out two miles ; however, Pat-
roleus showed real grit in wearing down
Research and scoring by two lengths from
the fast-finishing Pixie Lad. The price was
7 to 2.
James Scobie, whose principal patron,
Ernest Clarke, is spending an annual holi-
day in the Maoriland fishing grounds, appro-
priated the Two-year-old Handicap with
Carmeeno, a shapely bay colt by Cyklon from
a sister to Gloaming. “Pytchley Lodge”
juveniles have been slow in coming to hand
this season, and the victory of Carmeeno
would be acceptable. Bob Lewis (rntat 51)
intends sticking to the saddle as long as
Ernest Clarke remains on the turf. His
vigor and generalship enabled Cairmeeno
o vanquish Llamrei (2 to 1 favorite) by a
nead. Carmeeno seemed to carry his rival
out, but it may have been mutual distress
that made them finish over near the judge’s
box. Those who entrusted the Clarke noddy
with support gleefully collected on the hand-
some basis of 10 to 1 or better.
David Syme, who founded Melbourne Age,
was a stern Presbyterian to whom the
thought of racing horses would be anathema.
A son has different notions. His stud in
the Goulburn Valley and his “Rawdon Hill”
stables, near Dandenong, involved A. E.
Syme (otherwise “S. A. Rawdon”) in a
huge outlay. This keen and straight-going
sportsman saw Llamrei lose by the prover-
bial eyebrow, and immediately afterwards
had to submit to the overthrow of Strogoff
by Lady Backbite (7 to 2) in the Welter
Plate However, some amount of solace was
derived from the brilliant victory of Tor-
lonia -(5 to 1) in the first division of the
Welter Purse. Torlonia spoiled a heavy bet
OPENIN’ OUT.
“Blime! Fatty—your bloke's going for
it now."
“Yeah; he must he close on his cen-
tury."
ting plunge on Taras, whose mentor, J. G
Heywood, formerly was located where Adam
Skirving now prepares a big string for “S A.
Rawdon.”
Laird o’ Cockpen, deemed to be the best of
a bad lot of middle-distance prads in the
Fund Handicap, was sent out at evens; but
made his finishing effort too late to overhaul
Coromandel (8 to 1). Donalbain (6 to 1),
quietly backed to a pretty tune by his con-
nections, carried off the Highweight Handi-
cap, in which the favorite, Romany Rye,
missed a place. Velocette (9 to 2), a top-
notch galloway, annexed the second division
of the Purse.
if if . * *
“Absence makes the boss grow richer” may
be written of S. W. Biggins’s Victorian
stable. Biggins is on furlough in parts un-
known outside of an immediate circle of
friends. Since he obtained leave of absence
from the V.R.C., horses owned or trained
by him have won almost all along the line.
Nagrada brought his tally to three on end
by capturing the. Ballarat Cup. Birdcage
(by the sire of Chaumont) and Translator
also were successful at Dowling Forest. Nice
oclds were obtained about Nagrada, a plunge
having brought Master. Lunette to a cramped
price. Herb Morton’s gelding ran wretchedly
and must have gone off since his Bendigo
Cup success. Dowling Forest fields were
small. It is proposed to compress the fixture
into one day and increase the stake-money.
For Moonee Valley on Saturday :
Banyule Trial Hurdle: Blast; next, Re-
search.
Kiata Handicap: Brockwood; next, Strog-
off.
“Thormanby”: According to Lord D’Aber-
non, chairman of the Thoroughbred Horse-
breeders’ Association, the introduction of
the tote to a small section of English racing
lias been responsible for a 30 p.c. increase
in attendances, and there is every evidence
that the machine will lead to improved
courses and stands, cheaper admission,
better prizes and diminished fees. That
may well be, since in England ticket
prices are adapted to the pockets of every-
one, while the deductions are infinitesimal
compared with the thumping cut taken in
Australia by club deductions and Govern-
ment taxation in combination. This, with
the refusal of some States to permit sep-
arate machines for straight-out betting in
addition to the 1-2-3 system, is slowly
weaning the Australian public from tote
betting.
❖ $ »i< $
“Mescal”: An American celebrity of
many parts dropped into Sydney recently in
the person of J. W. Coffrotli. Before the late
lamented Tex Rickard went to his reward, Cof-
froth, who had started public life as a pro-
fessional cyclist, had been the leading Yankee
entrepreneur of stousli, and handled such
great fighters of the past as Jeffries, Corbett,
Ruhlin and Munro. When racing restrictions
and prohibition fell upon the land, Coffroth
was inspired to start a racecourse just over
the Mexican border at Tia Juana, There is
no prohibition in Mexico, neither is there
any vexatious interference with having a
flutter. Consequently, Tia Juana, main-
tained. like Paris, by wealthy and thirsty
where the pubs and the gambling-
houses are open and eager for business
all round the clock. Jufena is generally
acclaimed as hot stuff. Coffrotli says
lie is starting a similar show a few
miles further along the border at
Aguardiente. As that means firewater.
Americans, is a flourishing Eden,
I must leave the rest to the imagination.
“Towkay”: They do their racing some-
what differently in Malaya. A programme
of the Taiping Turf Club amateur meeting
just to hand announces simply that there
will be so many races on each day for
horses and ponies in different numbered
classes. Prizes run up to 600 dollars
Straits —about £7O. Since the nags are
already classified, no further handicapping
seems necessary. Each race carries a
souvenir gold cup, and the winning rider
receives a gold-mounted whip. An unlimited
sweep is opened on each day, as well sis
cash sweeps on every race, while there is
also a tote for anyone looking for further
chances for a flutter. The idea of the gold
mounted whip for the gentleman jock
specially appeals. In this country the pool
cow never gets anything, unless it is a suit-
ably inscribed slip of paper—even tliat has
to be slipped to him under the lap.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Nine rounds of hurricane fighting were
served up at Sydney Stadium in the scrap
for the Australian lightweight championship
between .Tack Roberts (9st. T Jib.) and
Norm Gillespie (9st. 4Jlb.), Gillespie retain-
ing the title. Starting off confidently and
using a straight left to the face, Gillespie
took the first round easily, and then caused
a sensation in the second by dropping the
Newcastle man three times. He was him-
self staggered towards the end of , the round
ẅ


'Vi
&& /
\
M
y
m
/■
4
\
m
■ ■:
mz
AGAIN ADOPTED
EXCLUSIVELY
NSW
CHAMPIONSHIP
Tournament
3rjAN.-8'TE8,1930.
M
cot/m
8.G.2T29.


W. W. GREENER
GUNS
r'
'
Sh£s>
W. W. GREENER LTD., Birmingham.
IFftoZesaie Australian Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.,
405-07 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, C-l.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated* under the Companies Act 1563. Established 1872,
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.:
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager — M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - - BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers. Castlerea®h Street, SYDNEY.
KeivL-Rqtioi\
T Dog food
Supreme
4 V
A perfectly balanced meat ration; keeps
all breeds of dogs in perfect condition.
Composed of clean, wholesome red meat,
oatmeal, fresh onions and cod liver
oil in exactly the right proportions.
In Tins. READY TO SERVE.
A Perfectly-balanced Ration.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from
W. C. SCHWAB
P. O. Box 1821, Melbourne
Ken-LRation
GERT'/'l H&AJ2 You PL/VY
Bert : w I HOPE you oout ! ”
GiE-RT "Dght WHA.T ? ”
B&RT ’,“ HEAsg. ME PL AC/7
w
“Senex”: The Queensland Cricket Asso-
ciation has barred the inclusion of “visi-
tors” in any touring party of players and
officials. In the past it has been the practice
of all sorts of weird persons to accompany
sports sides to reap the benefit of rail and
hotel concessions, and invariably they prove
a nuisance to the players and those imme-
diately concerned with them. This is especi-
ally true of bowlers, who, like the patriarchs,
art 1 accustomed to travel with their wives
and families. The “visitors” do likewise, and
when the bowlers’ wives and families engage
in the inevitable Donnybrook the intrusion
on the field of the visiting wives and families
makes confusion worse confounded.
Racquet and Bawl
“Old Q.”: Now there is a Davis Cup
team in prospect Queensland is putting'
forward the claims of F. F, Moon for
inclusion. On this year’s showing he has
been beaten only by Crawford. He defeated
H'opman and Willard, not overlooking Austin,
the English champion. Outside England, all
European Davis Cup games will be played
on hard courts, and on these Moon has in-
disputably shown he has no superior in Aus-
tralia, having beaten Crawford five times on
them, and Hopman eight times in nine starts.
:!t * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Warned by previous
experiences, the Australian tennis chiefs
intend to keep a tighter hand on their
Davis Cup reps, in future, especially in the
matter of finance. Not only will the travel-
ling and accommodation provided players fall
short of the former lavish scale, but the
daily “allowance” is cut down from two
guineas to a wretched pound. Out of this the
poor lads will have to find their own laundry,
meals and spots, outside those provided at
the hotel in which they are staying. Further,
independent transport and the entertainment
of friends will not, in future, go on the
management’s slate], as in happier days.
Nothing seems to be said about the “outfit
allowance” before departure. Last time
some of the bills on this account made the
council shed tears, especially those from
the girls.
*
“Cash Amateur”: As expected, the advent
of Les Baker to the ranks of professional
tennis in N.S.W. at once set up a mild
boom. While J. O. Anderson was in his
splendid isolation, he had to confine himself
to coaching and writing, with an occasional
permitted match against an amateur crack.
Now he has a foeman wmrthy of his ash
and catgut the pair are in great demand,
country centres especially tumbling over
themselves to secure them for exhibition
games.
* * * *
“Maidan” : Though Australia heard little
of the tour, French tennis cracks, headed
by Cochet, have been in India for some
weeks. Cochet, Landry—who did not appear
in Australia but joined Borotra’s side in
South Africa later —Rodcl and Brugnon made
up the touring party. Against India they
won both singles and doubles matches.
Earlier, against Southern India, they took
the doubles championship. In the singles,
Cochet and Landry fought it out, the former
winning.
* * * *
“Top Spin” : A departure from the routine
both of Sydney tennis and the G.PjS. was
a match last week between an association
team and one from the schools. The schools'
side was easily beaten, but several showed
promise. Among these were L. O. S. Poide-
vin, of Sydney Grammar, a son of the
N.S.W. and Lancashire cricketer; and E.
Harding, of Shore, whose dad was himself
a tennis player of note as well as a Rugby
footballer of renown,. Generally, the large
Australian schools follow the British ex-
ample and frown on tennis as tending to
interfere with cricket and football.
The Watermen
“Slide” : Virtue is its own reward, and as
far as the coxswains of winning crews
are concerned most rowing clubs have been
content to let it. go at that. For some time,
however, the Sydney R. C. has been accus-
tomed to award the “monkey” a trophy in
common with the other members of the
crew. St. Joseph’s College, which recently
held a successful regatta on Tarban Creek
on the upper reaches of Port Jackson, has
followed suit. The logical conclusion would
be to abolish the old term “eight” and sub-
stitute “nine,” which would give the
neglected cox recognition.
* * * =!=
“Hotham”: Victorian rowing authorities
are following the lead of their N.S.W.
brethren and going to the wide open spaces
to hold the big events which were formerly
battled for on the Yarra storm-water canal.
The first held under the new conditions will
bo the .State four-oared championship at Lake
Colac this week-end. The course on
the open lake will be flagged at quarter-mile
intervals to help coxswains used to river
rowing.
* * * *
“Catch”: The statement that the recent
2000-metres sculling race in Sydney
was the first over the Olympic distance (B.
27/11/’29) is not quite correct. It was the
first for a championship title, but the initial
spin over the distance was the trial for
the Olympiad on the Yarra two years ago,
when Bob Pearce won in 7min. 23sec.
* * *
“Blade”: The N.S.W. champion.eights and
heavy and light champion sculls are to be
decided on the Nepean River course at Pen-
rith on December 21. It will be the first
time the State events have been staged on this
splendid stretch of water, though two. years
ago the inter-State event for the King’s Cup
and the Australian champion sculls drew a
huge and profitable crowd to the straight
higli-banked three-miles course. In future the
historic Parramatta course will be left to
club regattas and the G.P.S. Head of th?
River event, though many are in favor of the
schools’ finals, at least, being transferred to
Penrith.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Fitzcray”: Melbourne golfers have taken
interest in an unusual golf contest between
professionals. It was for a purse of £IOO
given by J. A. McLeod, president of the
Royal Melbourne club, to celebrate the win-
ning of the Grand National Steeple by his
horse Sandhurst, and was played at Sand-
ringham. The contest consisted of 36 holes
stroke play followed by 36 holes match play,
with semi-finals and a final. The final saw
a great battle between Jupp and Spence.
Spence needed only a half to win at the
16th, and secured it after Jupp had missed
a Oft. putt, getting home by 3 and 2.
* * *
“Divot Digger”: The new Lakes golf
club in the environs of Sydney deserves
well of the public, since, in addition to a
full private course, it is providing an adjoin-
ing one, which will be open to the public
for the usual fees. There are so few courses
of the kind in N.S.W., and especially in
the vicinity of Sydney, that one hopes the
example will be assiduously followed. The
private > course has been completed, and
greens and fairways are now being condi-
tioned. Everything is expected to be ready
for a start by next Easter.
* :!: * *
“Iconoclast”: In a personal notice of
Lord Bledisloe, Maoriland’s new Governor-
General, a Melbourne journalist recently
wrote better than he knew. Touching on
his Lordship’s recreations, he remarked that
they included golf and pigbreeding. In spite
of the indignation of some of my golfing
acquaintances, I see nothing invidious in the
juxtaposition, save that some people would
put the' pigs first. There is more analogy
between the two than might be thought at
first sight. Both go about rooting up the
landscape and making horrible noises during
the process. Both tend to run to obesity,
while the average golfer can give the pig
points when it comes to squealing when
matters refuse to go right.
* * ■•!: *
“Brassey” : After much tumult and shout-
ing, N.S.W golfers have at last consented
to the formation of a State Golf Association
to replace the old go-as-you-please form of
control. Characteristically, Ma is late to re-
form in this particular. The main objection
came from the extra-metropolitan clubs, which
saw in the proposed levy of 2s. per member
to establish a fund for inter-State tourneys
and coaching tours by professionals another
deep-laid scheme to get the better of the
simple rustic by the Sydney sharps. The
memorandum and articles have been drawn
un and considered, and except for a few
minor amendments are certain to be adopted
at the first annual meeting. Meanwhile, the
governing council will consist of 12 mem-
bers- —three each from the Royal Sydney and
Australian golf clubs, three from the Syd-
ney and Suburban Districts Association,
and three nominated by the Country District
Associations.
* * * *
“Smooge”: That carper at mixed four-
somes (B. 20/11/’29) may be glad to hear
that the shandygaff golf he sO sneeringly refers
to is highly popular in Europe and America,
the most exalted among the male players
being not ashamed to take part in it. How
a good associate member can help her part-
ner is seen in a recent match in California
between Bobby Jones and Marion Hollins
and Englishman Cyril Tolley partnered by
the American championette, Glenna Collett,
the latter pair winning easily. On his own,
the hard-hitting Tolley would have Buck-
ley’s chance with Jones. The Hollins girl x
is very little inferior to the .Collett ditto,
so jt is safe to say that it was Glenna who
was the match-winner. '
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: J. IJ. Scott, who was pro.
at Seaton, where the Royal Adelaide club
holds sway, has been appointed professional
to the Elanora county club, which is now
nearing the completion of what promises to
be one of the best and most picturesque
golf courses in N.S.W. Scott brings with
him a great reputation, as a coach and club
maker, and is a player of considerable ability
in addition.
* * * *
“Divot Digger” : The inevitable must hap-
pen even at golf. After years of opposition,
the Royal and Antient at St. Andrews has
sanctioned the use of the steel shafted club.
For long the implement has been forbidden
by the high gods of British golf, though the
Americans have been using it for some time.
One club in England, Coombe Hill, which
is mostly composed of refugee Americans
seeking surcease from prohibition, has per-
mitted its use on the club course, an action
which led to a withdrawal of diplomatic
courtesies. Curiously enough, though banned
in Britain and the Empire, the steel clubs
are almost exclusively made in Birming-
ham, which carries on a lively export trade
in them with America.
❖ * $ *
“Hoylake”: Golfers, like horses, have a
weakness for special courses. Aubrey Boomer,
the Englishman who is professional at St.
Cloud’s, in France, is a case in point. A
fine golfer anywhere, he is practically un-
beatable on his own ground, as he showed
Walter Hagen not long ago. His latest
achievement has been the acquisition of the
French professional championship from the
formidable Archie Compston.
{Continued on next page.)


PUMP TYPE
SUPER CHARCER
. EFFICIENCY
n WITH ECONOMY
6 SIMPLICITY
Wholesale Agents and Stockists:
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
284 Pitt Street, Sydney.
WEED TYRE CHAINS
Grip and hold under all
road conditions, eliminat-
ing costly delays and insur-
ing safe, positive traction .
Every motorist needs them.
Made in Regular and De
Luxe Patterns. In sizes to
fit all tyres—pneumatic or
solid.
Order from your dealer.
R
WEED TYRE CHAINS
Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest-
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner a
la carte from 1/6. Inclusive tariff, £4/4/- weekly.
Special quotations for sporting bodies, etc. Situated
right opposite Spencer Street Station, no taxi fares;
railway porter carries baggage across if necessary.
Please write for detailed tariff card. Carlyon’s
Hotel, Melbourne, is sufficient address.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”: Norman Smith’s attempt to
crack the Australasian motor-car record for
a flying mile on Gerringong (N.S.W.)
Beach exceeded expectations. There was
only a mile of practicable beach available,
and three-quarters of this was needed to clap
on the pace. Driving his converted Cadillac
car, fitted with a 12-cylinder Rolls Royce
aeroplane engine, Smith got over the last
measured quarter-mile in seven seconds. This
gave a speed average of 128.571 for the full
mile, easily bettering the Australasian
record of 109.19 m.p.h. made in M.L. last
year and the Australian record of 107.14
m.p.h. made by D. J. Harkness, who was
responsible for the construction of the latest
record-breaker. At the finish, the Cadillac
was travelling at 142 m.p.h., so Smith’s
ambition to beat Marchand’s world’s ten-mile
figures of 133.54 m.p.h. may yet be realised.
* * * *
“Pore du Chemin” : Another of those fleet-
ing road records which so improve pedestrian
agility on our public highways has been
achieved without loss of life to even a hen.
This was a run from Sydney to Bourke
(N.S.W.), 512 miles, in lOhr. 50min.,
average speed being 47.7 m.p.h. and
actual running speed 53 miles. The
car was a stock Ford with extra petrol
accommodation. N. Aubin, of Bathurst, drove
as far as Bathurst, T. Poole, of Sydney,
covering the balance of the district. The
pair might now try to set up anew record
from Bourke to Sydney. Most people travel
faster away from Bourke than towards it,
nowadays.
»!• ■ *s* »5»
“Formula”: Sydney Bicycle and Motor
Club’s annual flexibility test was held at
National Park, and drew an entry of 37,
divided into 4-, 6-, and S-cylinder classes.
The test was a slow and fast run, the car
in each class with the highest ratio of dif-
ference scoring. In the slow test, F.
Howarth gave a remarkable performance in
a 6-cylinder Graham-Paige. The course was
352 yards, with a run of 20 yards to get
into third gear, and on this the G.-P.
averaged 1.33 m.p.h. The fastest time
was 13 4-ssee. by H. Bcith’s Chrysler, aver-
aging 52.7 m.p.h. American cars headed
all three classes.
* .-s * h=
“Disc Clutch”: Kay Don may not go to
Daytona Beach to make his attempt on
Segrave’s world record after all. He has
been inspecting the seven-mile course on the
Pendine Sands in Carmarthenshire, and may
tackle the task there in his 4000-h.p. Sun-
beam-Coatelen. The course is an ill-omened
one, for it was there that Parry Thomas was
killed while attempting new figures in 1927.
“Kick Starter”: The ninth annual six-day
trial of the Motor Cycle Club of N.S.W.
begins at Sydney on Boxing Day, the com-
petitors finishing at the starting-point on
December 31. The trial will be held over
a circuit of 869 miles through the South
Coast districts and the Southern Highlands.
All riders affiliated with the Auto-Cycle
Union of N.S.W. are eligible to compete,
and there will be three classes. The first
is for private rider-owners not connected
with the trade, the second for riders em-
ployed in the trade and the third for club
or trade teams. Thei contest is one of the
longest of the kind held anywhere in the
world, and is easily the most important in
Australia.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: Hubert Opperman left Syd-
ney last week bound for M.L., where he
is to take part in a series- of races and
matches under contract, returning early in
the coming year. As that other sterling
Victorian rider H. W. Lamb is now on
his way from America, where he has been
racing with great success, there should be
some interesting battles between the pair
before the season comes to an end. It is
most probable that Lamb, equally at home,
like Opperman, on road or track, may
accompany his brother Victorian to Europe
for the next Tour de France.
* * * *
“Dot”: Horrie Marshall, the Westralian
who won the Warrnambool-Melbourne mara-
thon, was reared on the Ivalgoorlie field,
where his dad, himself a classy pedaller in
his day, runs a cycle shop. Almost as soon
as he could walk young Marshall was riding
a diminutive bicycle. With such an
early start it is little wonder that he has
turned out a champion.
Miscellaneous
“James Pigg” ■ It was left to a Sydney
journal, the other day to desecrate the cen-
tenary of that immortal M.F.H. John, Peel
by printing a solecism calculated to send
the soul of the Cumberland hero careering
in wrath over his native fells. The paper,
in describing an alleged hunt club at Can-
berra, told how the master of the hounds
“sounds a brisk tally-ho on his trumpet
before falling in behind for the hunt.”
Trumpet! Has the writer of that never
read of the sound of the famous horn that
would “awaken the dead”? Fie will fall into
line with Miserrimus Doleful next, and refer
to the hounds as “dogs.”
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: Though the Canadian
Empire Games are set down for decision. at
Hamilton in July next, the Australian
athletic authorities and the Olympic Coun-
cil have given no indication that they mean to
send an Australian team across the Pacific.
South Africa has expressed its intention to
be represented, and now the English A.A.A.
has fallen into line. There is to be a full
Olympic programme of 22 events, and the
English team will confine themselves to
these. No swimmers will be sent, and it is
unlikely that any football or hockey sides
will enter, either.' Taking past performances
as a guide, we should hear from the Aus-
tralian authorities about May next.
* * * *
“H'otham” : What is claimed as a world’s
record for a half-mile run on a grass track
was recently put up in Melbourne by J. D.
Fitt, who got over the distance in lmin.
54 3-10 sec. The best Australasian figures
prior to that were the lmin. 55 4-ssec to
the credit of Victorian W. Hunt at Sydney
Cricket Ground last December. The flying
Frank Hewitt was credited with running the
880 in lmin. 53-Jsec. at Christchurch 58
years ago, but there is a doubt as to the
nature of the track —some assert it was done
on a macadam road. In any case no accepted
grass-track records for the half-mile appear
in the book.
* * a; *
“Blue Bar”: That 2097-yards-a-minute by
an Australian homer pigeon (B. 27/11/’29)
is only a world’s record for distances of 500
miles and over. The actual velocity cham-
pionship, irrespective of distance, stands to
the credit of an Irish bird, which, in 1914,.
flew from Malahide to Dunmurry over 80
miles airline at the rate of 2744 yards per
minute, The Australian record is 2408
yards per minute, flown from Port Augusta
to Adelaide, 178 miles 1430 yards, in 1925.
* * a: a=
“Bermuda” : All the States save Westralia
have entered for the next Forster Cup race
for 21ft. “restricted” yachts, which is to be
sailed on Port Phillip in February. N.S.W.
lias built or is building three new boats to
try to recapture the Cup, now held in Tas-
mania. The Tassies have one new entry, and
a sort of plebiscite is being held to decide on
a name for her. The most popular suggestion
is “The Speck,” The Bulletin’s nickname
for the Apple Island. Only three boats can
represent each State, and these will have to
be selected later from the entries, N.S.W.
having several to chose from beside the three
“specials.”
* * * #
“Crawl” : N.S.W. swimmers of both sexes
have been showing some good form of late in
anticipation of the Australian championships
at Melbourne and Hobart. The most notable
performance to date was a 220-yards back-
stroke, swim by Marsden Campbell, who put
up anew Australian record with 3min.
2 2-ssec., which displaces his own previous
best of 3m.in. 4 LlOsec. However, Georges
DAPHNE AKHURST, Australia’s cham-
pion woman tennis player, and one
ranked only second to Helen Wills by
the world’s best judges.
Kojac has set a world standard with 2min
36sec., and the Australian will have to
improve a lot to equal that, good as his
latest showing was. Among the flappers,
new figures are recorded (in the daily press)
every week, but this is becoming so usual as
to verge on the monotonous.
H: * *
“Soc.”: Swimming is in again, and the
usual dailies are publishing the usual photo-
graphs of crowds of onlookers wildly cheering
(by special arrangement with the camera-
man ). On photo, paper it looks a great sport.
On the occasions when I have inspected it
—when Charlton and Borg were on the job
—even the competitors in the minor events
on the bill turned their backs on it and dis-
cussed the latest flapper or movie. Including
chess and show “hunting” over the hurdles,
swimming is the only “sport” that I have
ever seen participants turn their backs on.
I have yet to see a jockey turn his back
on a horserace, or a footballer look the other
way at a football match. I could under-
stand a cricketer —but I am talking about
sport.
“Fitzcray” : The poor old stony-broke Vic-
torian Football League, which handles only
about three times as much cash annually as
all the other States put together, recently
H.L. HENDRY, the N.S.W.-Victorian
cricketer, who was dropped from the
trial match in Sydney.
threatened to resign from the national con-
trolling body if it had to contribute more
than any other State. The bluff didn't work,
so after waiting until the last minute to see
if the others would show some evidence of
possessing bowels of compassion, the Cab-
bage Gardeners hurled their mite into the hat.
If the League really needs money, it is sug-
gested that a larger cut be taken by it from
the bloated gates of the big Melbourne clubs.
:!= * * *
“Tyke”: The Kangaroos met their fifth
defeat in their last micfiweek match at Wigan
against what is styled a “Northern League”
team, being beaten 18-5. There is a grin
in the title applied to the opposing, side.
The .League game is utterly unknown in
Britain outside Lancashire and Yorkshire.
Thus the team opposed to the N.S.W. and
Queensland members of the Kangaroos vir-
tually played a “Test” match, as the North-
ern Union and its Australian equivalent, the
Rugby League, choose to consider these
encounters between a section of footballers
in two Australian States and" a tiny frac-
tion of the footballers in two English
counties.
* * * *
“Swing th’ Boot”: North of England
papers are unanimous that the recent game
between the Kangaroos and Swinton under
Rugby League rules was the “dirtiest” ever
seen in that part of the world. The authori-
ties are calling for a special report from the
ref. and the side-line judges. It must have
been a pretty warm go, for one paper refers
to it as out-vieing “even a final or semi-final
between a Lancashire and Yorkshire club.”
* * * *
“Gatehound”: If the N.S.W. Rugby
League has any tears left, now is the time
to shed them. The Brisbane R. L., whose
quarrel with the Queensland ditto reduced the
latter to a piping ghost, lias empowered its
executive to take the necessary steps to effect
a fusion with the Queensland Rugby Union.
Whether the Union will agree to whitewash
the professionals is a moot point, even in
view of the fact that to do so would put
it in command of first-class enclosed grounds.
However, in view of the coming British visit,
both the ex-Leaguers and the Union men
should benefit, the one in status and the
other in gates, if the merger comes off. So
let it be left at that.
* * * *
“Ruggieri”: After trying Rugby football
for two seasons, the Italian Rugby Union
has decided that it is too strenuous. A
hybrid game named “Volata,” founded
on Rugby and Soccer, is being considered.
It would seem that a good chance to press
the merits of the Australian game has been
missed. In any case., the followers of Mus-
solini will find in time that, whatever the
brand of football, the rough stuff will make
itself evident, if the players feel that way.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“C.Q.” : A couple of Yic. shopkeepers have
been lined for selling ice-cream below the
standard. According to the State Health
Act, the chief diet of flappers should con-
tain not less than 10 p.c. of fat, the re-
mainder to be made solely of milk and eggs.
A chemist friend tells me that a specimen
he analysed consisted of milk powder, egg
powder and cocoanut oil.
* * * *
“Sharps”: Oldham spinners and weavers
buy a lot of Queensland cotton for making
up into special varieties of cloth, which
have a good market in Australia. Cotton-'
growers fear that, as a result of the new
duties, Oldham will buy less raw material
here. A proposal by James Nelson and Co.,
of Lancashire, to establish a 10,000-spindle
mill in Brisbane is a step forward, but that
will do little good without a start in weaving
also. Time was when Brisbane did its own
spinning and calico weaving.
* * * *
“Garry” : Whenever you suggest that it is
time xlustralia commenced to make its own
automobiles some engineering expert arises
to say that the country isn’t sufficiently
advanced to attempt the production of car
engines. Don Harkness, of Sydney, has
designed a 4-cyl. aero-engine' of 110 h.p.—
a more ambitious and difficult job than a
car engine of any type. The motor has given
satisfactory results under drastic tests.
* * * *
“Flip”: Though the Postal Department
expects to lose in the early stages it has
signed mail contracts with the Australian
National Airways Co., which will ply be-
tween Brisbane and Melbourne, with Sydney
for an intermediate roost. 11. P. Brown,
Director of Postal Services, says the policy
of the department is “to take advantage of
every modern .improvement, and to establish
a mail service on every commercial airline
available.” That means initiative and
enterprise, and, let’s hope, in the days to
come, profits.
* * * *
“Couta”: For abbreviated advertising it
would be hard to beat this from Hobart
Mercury :■ —
TO LET.
To Let, well-furnished flat, all conv., s.c., e.sl.,
e. 1., c.s., c. 0., £l/1/-
It certainly sounds a lot for the money.
* * * *
“Wymac” : The metal spray-gun and pro-
cess (B. 2T/11/’29) is a Swedish invention.
An Australian co. holds patent rights for
the Commonwealth and Maoriland; it was
responsible for the metal spraying in bronze
of the exterior doors, window grilles and
stone fresco-work on the State Government
Savings Bank in Sydney. The coating of
bronze, though only paper thickness, will, it
is estimated, give, a century of untarnish-
able surface wear.'
:]t * * *
“R.V,”: A device due to an Amalga-
mated Wireless engineer promises to solve
the vexed problem of radio on small coastal
steamers in Australian waters. It consists of
a small box with a number of dials. By
moving the pointers opposite the appropriate
letters an unskilled person can send out
simple signals of distress and also add the
vessel’s latitude and longitude. An extra'dial
enables the manipulator to signal “All’s
well.” A battery of accumulators provides
sufficient juice to keep the transmission going
continuously for 10 hours.
* * * *
“W.I.TJ.” : Broken Hill’s natural pleasure
resort is Menindie, on the Darling, 72 miles
away. The Railway Department offers ex-
cursion fares at 10s. Bd. for adults and half
for kiddies. Convinced that they could do
better, the miners and truckers of the Cen-
tral mine hired a train (’Hill to Menindie
and return) for £2l 10s. a carriage—a total
of £300; had to stop the sale of tickets days
before; charged only 6s. a head for adults
and 2s. for children; made £lOO or so on
the deal, and gave the Commissioners more
money than, they ever got before from a
picnic train. An experience from which
new-man Cleary should not be too proud
to learn.
# * *
“Murkah”: “Circuit” (B. 20/11/’29) is
unaware that the Postal Department has
“even one” copper telegraph line. It uses
no other kind. A stray iron wire has been
left as a standby; but iron is too dead to
carry the thunder-shower of dots of high-
speed machine telegraphy. “C.’s” statement
that the 1052 miles of railway wire linking
Port Augusta and Ivalgoorlie is an Austra-
lian record for length is also in error. Mel-
bourne and Perth work direct over a thread
of copper 2200 miles long. Another piece of
the same material reaches from Adelaide to
Darwin (1200 miles). The three Adelaide-
Sydney circuits exceed 1100. miles. The
Sydney-Townsville duplex-machinery is
joined by 1600 miles of wire and poles. To
save time and handling when a considerable
volume of press matter has bepn lodged late
at night, freak circuits 8000 miles long have
been arranged.


• • •
Husbands
Brothers . . .
Uncles . .
Your Men Friends ..
They’ll appreciate a Gift
from a Man’s Store
Mick Simmons
A Pocket Wallet
Superior Tan Leathe.
Finish 7/O
Others at 5/-, 8/6, 10/6
and upwards.
A Safety Razor
“Valet” Auto-Strop Safety
Razor Set, complete with
Blades and Strop 22/0
Others at 6/6, 10/-, 45/-
Pipe in Case
C. 8.8. extra quality Pipe,
in handsome case, 8 /{fy
Famous S.N.L. extra quality
Pipe, incase, 10/0, 12/0
Military Hair
Brushes
Set, consisting of two Xylo-
nite Brushes and Comb in
1 e a t he r-finished,
satin-lined case. .. . 21/-
Blade Razors
Wallet
Two high-grade Razors by
Thos. Rudd & Sons, from
best Sheffield Steel, in
handsome leather
wallet . . . , 25b
in
Patent Pocket
Lighter
It never fails.
Leather-covered, 5/ m
Plain Nickel, 3/9, 4/6
> > >
Box of Golf Balls
Set of Clubs . ..
Golf Bag' .. .
BIRDIE GOLF BALLS, in presentation
box of three 9/“
Box of four, 12/ Box of six, 18/-
A beautiful Set of Will Corry
Stainless De Luxe WOODS
AND IRONS, with Tan or
Fawn Canvas Golf Bag, com-
P let « £4/11/6
WILLOW HIDE GOLF BAG,
colored hide lacing . . . 32/6
ga s
m
i
m
m
■ ’
ẁ
ẃ
I
*
AS
SHOWN
ABOVE
Australian-made. Medium width “Snap Brim” which
may be worn turned up or down. Illustration shows the
smart pleated bow. Newest color tones
including Light, Mid and Dark Greys, also
the new Cinnamon, Spark Grey, Fawns
and Beaver. All regular sizes.
The best hat value in Australia
21/-
V
WORTHY
OF YOUR
SMARTEST
SUIT
Genuine English made, and exclusive to Murdoch’s.
Finest quality Fur Felt, hand-finished. “Snap Brim”
and “Prince” shapes in attractive
Light, Mid and Dark Greys, new Fawn
and Beaver shades. All regular sizes,
combining comfort, faultless style and
perfect finish
27/6
The Imported “Star” and “A I”
quality hats at 35/-; and the “J. A.
Murdoch” at 50/-, are other superb
value lines.
WE PAY POSTAGE TO YOUR DOOR. When writing, kindly
state size and color.
Address your letter to DESK “R,” Murdoch’s Ltd., Box 3875TT,
G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ark* f.EORGF SI SYDNEY
“The World’s Largest Men’s and Boys’ Wear Store. 9 *


this
(OWN
Cl^
:
Columbia
TRADE MARK
MACIC NOTES
([hmlnuts
Every record in this
Columbia List of Special
Xmas Selections deserves
the careful consideration
of everyone wno realises
3tt£truttmttal
9139
(6/0
Organ Medley Of Christmas
Carols and Hymns
In Two Parts
St. Mary-le-Bow Church Organ
w (Clarence Raybould, Organist ).
01615
(4/-)
'A Vision of Christmastide
Part 1. —Shades of
Christmas Eve
Part 2. —Dawn of
Christmas Morn
,J. H. Squire Celeste Octet.
(Etjoral
9140
(6/-)
Christmas Carols —Selection
Christmas Hymns —Selection
The New Sanctuary Quartet.
01349
(4/-)
O Little Town of Bethlehem
This Joyful Eastertide
Exeter Cathedral Choir .
01244
(4/-)
The Manger Throne
The First Noel
St. George s Chapel Choir, Windsor.
The World’s Greatest Value
The Columbia
TONE - - A Revelation
PRICE - - Beyond
Comparison
SModel 109 a - £5 10
ZModel met - £7 10
«Positively this is the most astounding value ever offered in
Portables. Its TONE, VALUE, FINISH and simplicity leaves
everything else behind. Judge this for yourself by test and
comparison. aAsk your dealer to demonstrate this model.
NO PORTABLE IS SO GOOD!
that it is the Music of Xmas which
brings the Spirit of Xmas into the
home.
©rdtpstral
07511
(6/-)
Silent Night, Holy Night
Christmas Melodies —Noel and Adeste
Fideles
Paul Whiteman and his Orchestra.
02743
(6/-)
f Christmas Memories —
(A Dream Phantasy). In Two Parts
'Herman Finck and his Orchestra .
9137
(6/.)
Christmas Overture
In Two Parts
8.8. C. Wireless Symphony Orchestra
(<conducted by Percy Pitt).
01528
(4/-)
The Sacred Hour —Reverie
In Two Parts
■Albert W. Ketelbey’s Concert Orchestra.
oAsk your Dealer for the Special Christmas
Supplement containing a comprehensive list of
» well-chosen Yuletide selections
m
OBTAINABLE AT ALL MUSIC STORES
A
< D*^ UP 1 a
J (j>wcetf>
ẅw
MAGIC NOTES
TRADE MARK-
ELECTRIC RECORDING WITHOUT
SCRATCH
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS.
N.S.W.: Grafonola, Ltd., 39 Liverpool Street, Sydney.
YIC.: Columbia Distributors (Vic.) Pty., Ltd., 300 Little Collins Street,
QUEENSLAND: King & King, Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane. _
A. E. Harrold, 123-125 Charlotte Street, Brisbane.
Melbourne,
0.1.
m
Buildings, «■** ««•
TAS,: Columbia Supply (Ta*) MP- « d " «*"$»“»• Bota,:t *“'


52 M&eleay St
Limited
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT, SYDNEY
(Located within the City Boundary, ten
minutes from G.P.0.)
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 160 rooms, is now open, and
features Single Rooms, Double
Rooms with Bath, and two-, three-
and four-room Suites with Bath.
Central Heating, Hot and Cold
Water, ’Phone and Bedside Lamp
in each room. Unsurpassed
Harbor views.
Telephone: F 2 I 6 1 (8 lines).
Telegraphic Address: “Fifmac,'
Sydney.
EXPERTS OK ™ E R JA!
Absolutely
without a rival
for appearance
and reliability.
A GIFT FOR ALL
TI ME
Sold by all Jewellers
—from £4/10/-
“ The Quality Watch”
The Finest achievement in
the Watch-making World.
R. cJ. A
LEVER*
WATCH
w
/Royal
ŵ w
To H.M.
Kin^
George V
CHAMPAGNE
Meslleidsiedi)
mi
Auetralaelan Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
CHAMPACK*
Qiaiieslleidsie&
REIMS
PELLISSOIM
Cognac Brandy.
lo YE.AIVS OLD.
Australasian Agren t»—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Have you
ordered
Kraft Cheese?
The English cricketers are the sheiks of
the moment. Among other fixtures to their
glory last week was a dance given by Jean
and Irene Anderson at Overthorpe, Double
Bay. Of dancing, generally speaking, there
is an end, and the cabaret, when it persists,
raises a diminished head. Palm Beach
seems to be marked off by society as its
particular possie over the Christmas holi-
days, and, according to report, the Pat Levys
threaten to lead to the beautiful beach a
party as large as the tribes Moses led through
the Red Sea. Only these will be better
dressed for the part, and will shoot the waves
instead of merely dividing them.
With £233 for the takings in the opening
day, and the cash register showing £l5O at
the end of the second, no wonder the Kari-
tane One-week Gift Show called itself a
success! Sydney’s s'martest matrons fur-
nished the shop, and then sold and wrapped
up the goods, and what with assistants and
shoppers the little premises at 117 Eliza-
beth-street were packed. The screens made
by Mrs. Colirf Stephen and Mrs. Langer
Owen struck a warm note of color. One,
a Chinese fantasy in peacock blue and gold,
by Mrs. Stephen, held its place in the middle
of the shop and provided seclusion for the
delicate little Japanese gardens planned by
Mrs. Victor White. The walls were panelled
with glowing bits of Oriental embroideries,
and flowers from Camden Park perfumed
the establishment. There were orange and
scarlet stool-boxes for flats, at which the
inhabitants could stand while polishing their
shoes, and then, lifting the lid, drop duster
and polish back. But they didn’t make much
of an appeal at £4 4s. Flatites are Philis-
tines, anyway, and probably don’t polish
their shoes.
.Mrs. John Fuller presided over a table
pileff with dainty hand-worked undies and
near-undies. Some quaint old English,
French and Japanese prints surrounded a
painting by artist John Moore on Mrs. Alex-
ander Gordon’s stall, which was flanked by
scarlet-and-gold painted trays. The Penfold
Hylands donated some exquisite bronzes.
But the things that went best of all were
japanned and painted -waste-paper holders —
these came from Mrs. Colin Stephen and sold
like .Christmas Bulletins. Mrs. Sidney
Jamieson and daughter Ann, the two attrac-
tive Stephen girls, Margaret Allen, Mrs.
Dundas Allen and Mrs. Nigel Smith were
a few of the helpers fluttering about the
stalls on the days when this writer called
to do some heavy Christmas shopping in the
way of pin-cushions and lavender bags. The
proceeds are the beginning of a fund to found
in a new nurses’ home a memorial to Ethel
Allen (Mrs. Arthur Allen), who was an
ardent apostle of tfye Karitane gospel.
There were lots of glittering bits about
the afternoon cheero given by Mrs. Norman
Lowe in honor of Admiral Evans’s lady.
There was a lit-up Christmas tree on one
table —that was where young Edward
Broke Evans, very bright of eye above a
leaf-green suit, sat with little Robert and
Lulu Lowe; there was Hawaiian music,
there was a soothsayer. It was in the garden
of Burdekin House, where orange and green
and red garden umbrellas stood up bravely
to a cold wind and a hot sun, and the small
children were envied of the chiffon-clad as
they played ball in a corner of the garden
remote from the tables set with blue cloths
and orange china. Mrs. Evans was in bright
red from the hat down. Mrs. Lowe wore the
honey-gold frock that won honorable mention
in this page last week, but added a fur stole
of great length and depth. This is so like
Russian sable that you felt the hostess
was. Washington’s only sister when she
admitted it was not so nobly born. A
special edition of the local peerage had come
out mostly in impeccable crepe de Chines
with fur bindings.
The Queen Victoria Club is proud of its
record. Not only has it paid a fee to every
artist who has played or sung at its parties
during the year, but it has a pretty credit
balance in the.bank. Mrs. Arthur Scrivener,
the Queen Victorians’ new president, has
placed another feather in the club’s cap—it
has secured Admiral Evans’s lady as patron-
ess. This tall good-looker was the Queen-
bee of last week’s swarming in the Arts
Club. She wore a red frock and droopy red
hat in contrast to her fairness, and seemed
buoyed up rather than weighed down by a
presentation anchor of red roses. The Dean
of Sydney’s wife in a thyme-green ensemble
stood by her right hand, and Sirs. Scrivener,
in greenly-patterned chiffons, piloted the guest
of honor from group to group. At one table
she renewed acquaintance with Mrs. Kings-
ford Smith, senior, and met the airman’s girl-
cousin from San Francisco, Boris Kingsford
Smith, who is so like her relation that
they might pass for brother and sister. Secre-
tary Mrs. Keith Morris, who found waiting
for her the club’s thanks and a vanity-box of
gold and red enamel for services rendered,
was another of the afternoon’s happy.
“Hop’s” Dorothy Hopkins was there in a
very large hat, and the songbirds who put
the trill into the hours were Gladys Verona,
Virginia Bassetti, Mrs. Harry Twigden,
Gladys Hart and Vincent Asprey.
While his mother and cousin were quietly
drinking Pekoe and a purling stream of
music, the aviator and his betrothed, Mary
Powell, of Melbourne, were flying to Syd-
ney from the South in an aeroplane piloted
by Kingsford Smith. His mother says admir-
ingly lie will fly the Atlantic before he
settles down, but adds that it will be the
South Atlantic, not the North.
Sir Hugh Poynter went along like a lamb
to open the Women Painters’ just-before-
Christmas Exhibition. Sir Hugh is a great
barracker, and has found in the little society
what appeals to him—good drawing. The
paintings in the exhibition are small in size
and in price, and as the pictures will remain
waiting for buyers til] the 21st, there seems
every hope of a complete clearance. Standing
in the doorway that leads from the tiny roof-
garden to the long studio, it was pleasant to
hear from the speaker, son of a great artist,
and living from childhood in an atmo-
sphere of culture: “The art of a painter is
his final abode. He is safe within it, safe
from praise, as he is safe from blame.” The
words brought a comforting vision of sanc-
tuary not only for him who labors with the
brush but for him.who labors with the pen.
Mrs. Fred Parsons and Mrs. Marie Irvine,
the new president, were other speakers.
Following the tradition of the American
show-girl, Muriel Greel, Julie of “The Show
Boat,” travels with mother to guard her.
Particularly able to do so is this mother.
She is Dr. Greil, and is attached, when at
home, to the Health Department in Washing-
ton. (Yes, that’s right: mother spells it
with an ei, but the daughter has simplified
it to ee.) At the Women Writers’ luncheon
last week she thrilled the company with the
announcement of her friendship with Theo-
dore Dreiser, Sinclair Lewis, Carl Van
Vechten and a long litany of other American
writers. Mark Twain, she said, had been a
friend of her father’s, and the family still
retains a packet of the humorist’s letters.
Theodore Dreiser, she declares, is one of
nature’s solemn boys, as devoid of humor
in his daily round as in his work —rather
like a wet rag at a party, but perhaps the
most lovable personality in New York's
writing world. Carl Van Vechten, polished
and sophisticated, has an actress wife, and
Edna Ferber is an unobtrusive little person
till she starts to talk. Dr. Greil was among
the founders of the famous literary club in
Grub-street, on the outskirts of Greenwich
village. She has promised Marjorie Quinn
to give a dissertation on American writing
celebrities for the benefit of the younger
generation of the Lyceum Club.
Mrs. Eva Seery, the subject of this May
Moore picture, is the newly-elected presi-
dent of the
Women Jus-
tices’ Associa-
tion. Women
on juries and
women magis-
trates, especi-
ally in the
C b i 1 d r en’s
Court, are the
two objects to
which the Jus-
tnesses are
now devoting
their energies,
and Mrs.
Seery is con-
vinced that
slowly but
surely these
things will
come. In
addition to her
four yea r s’
work with the
women Justices, Mrs. Seery can claim to be
one of the pioneers of the Women’s Central
Organising Committee of the A.L.P. In
1909 she became its secretary for love, and
remained in that office for 13 years. Then
for one year she was its president, and at
the jubilee dinner no speech was heard with
more attention than the one from this still
very active member of the party.
The W. S. Duncans, of Doonside and Cre-
morne, formerly of Inverell, have just had
word of the engagement of their eldest son,
Captain W. J. C., of the Guides, on the
n.-w. frontier of - India, to Jean Gordon.
Jean is a daughter of the Army. Her father
was the late Major Gordon of one Frontier
Force regiment, and her stepfather is Lieut.-
Colonel Channel’ of another Frontier Force
regiment. It sounds like a match made in
Kipling, doesn’t it?
Mrs. Clifton Smith, who looks out of this
photograph, is the wife of the master of
Sydney Grammar School House, the estab-
lishment set
up to accom-
modate coun-
try and out-of-
to w n boys.
There’s no-
thing of the
boarding-
school atmo-
sphere about
the pleasant
home over
whi c h Mrs.
Smith keeps a
maternal eye.
Perhaps this is
due to the fact
that before the
brisk lady
was a dom-
inie’s wife she
was in charge
first of the
Domestic
Science Col-
lege in Melbourne, and later on of that
city’s Domestic Arts Hostel. And before
that again she was instructor in cookery at
Sydney Tech. So there are no complaints
about the food mounting to the frescoed
ceilings of the dining-room of the old Lowen-
thal home at Clovelly.
There is room for 60 boys in the large,
spotless, wind-swept dormitories; instead
of walls dividing the rooms there are
wooden partitions about five feet high, topped
by wire-netting. As there are windows along
the outer walls, there is a constant current
of the breezes that come off Coogee and
Clovelly. The dressing-rooms are on the
floor below; here is a- room lined with what
look like filing cabinets but are steel lough-
boys, one for each boy. Here, too, stand
soiled-linen baskets, so that day clothes are
never taken into the dormitories. And from
every door and window is a pleasant view—
even from the shoe-shine parlor. Another
pride of the establishment is the great bronze
ship’s bell supported by green-bronze dol-
phins. This came out of the old Shangsha
that used to be run in the China trade. Now
it calls the boys out of bed and to their meals.
The house-master himself is a graduate of
Sydney, and has been variously senior
instructor at the Naval College in Geelong,
head of the Perth Modern School, associate-
head of the Hutchens School, and head of
King’s in Auckland.
Gladys H'egarty, of Killara, was one of
last week’s pretty brides. Dressed in a
judicious mingling of white and shell-pink
moire she became the wife of lan Philip
Brownrigg at St. Philip’s on Church Hill.
Sister Cecile and Ettie Terry ’maided in a
flutter of pale pink chiffons. Padre L.
Charlton, of Killara, tied the knot. The
’groom, whose father was the late Dr.
Brownrigg, hails from Chatswood. The
Wentworth housed the reception.
When Esme Elizabeth Connell walked up
the aisle of St. Philip’s on Saturday night
to become Mrs. Robert Stuart Bowman she
wore two priceless heirlooms. They were
her wedding veil of exquisite Venetian point
and a ■ bracelet of antique design. The two
had been worn by her maternal grandmother,
Mrs. R. G. D. Fitzgerald, over 70 years
ago, both being gifts of the Duke and
Duchess of Westminster. Her frock was
a lovely affair in that new pinky parch-
ment shade of satin. The skirt was very
flared and shaped, and was shorter at the
right side than at the back and the left;
the princess bodice flowered in marguerites
worked in strass and cut crystal. Long pen-
dants of softly-looped satin fell from the
shoulder and waist. Mrs. G. K Connell,
matron of honor, and bridesmaid Noel Pid-
dington wore period frocks in pink moire on
which embroidered blue roses bloomed.
Bishop D’Arcy Irvine did the riveting.
Toasts at the Wentworth, honeymoon in
Maoriland. Bridegroom is the Bowman of
Grampian Hills, Scone, only son of Dr. A.
S. Bowman, of Singleton. Esme Elizabeth
is the only daughter of H. H. Connell, for
so long Chamber Magistrate of North
Sydney.
The Peter Macanshes, of Bowral, are get-
ting ready to hand over daughter Susan to
Douglas Abbott, son of Colonel Abbott, and
a solicitor, too, of Armidale. And an early
January wedding is planned between Joan
Quinan, a racing enthusiast and owner of
Desdale, and Colin Campbell Galbraith.
Novelist Dale Collins is back in the land
of his birth once more. This time he brought
with him a bride. She was a Miss Edmond-
stone, and in the days of their childhood
the two were next-door neighbors. But
romance didn’t even bud in the romper stage.
It wasn’t till the Harrison Owens re-intro-
duced the two in Monte Carlo or Venice
that Cupid got a chance to sling an arrow.
Dale and his wife, incidentally, came by
the City of Delhi and were booked on as
steward and stewai-dess. But they repudiate
the idea of having done any work for their
pay of one shilling a month.
Another notable Australian who came back
outside a passenger list is Dr. Elkington, for-
merly Commonwealth medical officer in
Queensland and one of this country’s great
authorities on tropical diseases. Retired from
the service and with, the wanderlust upon
him, the doctor went to Europe on a big
cargo boat as ship’s officer, came back the
same way, and hopes to leave early in the
new year for some northern port, from which
he will take passage up the Amazon. Mean-
time he is enjoying himself in Brisbane —
most likely with a dinghy and a fishing-line.
Mrs. Reg Stafford, of Cassilis, came down
to town last week to meet sister-in-law Peggy
Stafford, just back from another trip. The
Staffords, senior, of Dobbikin (and that’s a
show station-home, if you like, complete with
bed-parlor-and-bath suites for everybody),
were also down to welcome their roaming
daughter, and there’s to be a great Christmas
gathering when son Dr. Les Stafford gets
home from his travels.
For 20 years the wife of Archgaiters
Wright has been president of that very dis-
creet group of charity-workers the Girls’
Friendly. Four days after her arrival in
Sydney Mrs. Wright was elected to the posi-
tion, and holds it still. Last week the Execu-
tive and Council of the society surrounded
their congratulations with tea and flowers
at the Waratah. Mrs. M. Styles, who had
been at the meeting 20 years ago, and Mrs.
W. G. Armstrong, welcomed the guest.
Two Neutral Bay families have suffered
within a week or ten days of each other a
bereavement of a similar nature. Maurice
Fitzgerald, the schoolboy son of the Bay’s
well-known doctor, died after a short illness
from the effects of a blood clot; and
Georges, the sailor-son of Belgium’s Consul-
General Segaert, died from, it is believed, the
same cause. But the poor parents of the
second lad had not even the comfort of
being near their boy when the end came.
Second-Lieutenant Georges Segaert w r as
just 23, and since he left school in 1922
has scarcely been at home with his people.
He served first a four-years’ cadetship in
the Belgian training-ship L’Avenir. Having
obtained his first-mate’s certificate with
highest honors, he came home and spent a
long holiday with his family at Neutral Bay.
He had obtained a position with Hagen
Brothers, Island traders, and had only left
Sydney on the La Perouse on November 4.
Dora Jarret, looking like a rose adorned
with pearls instead of dewdrops was a
radiant spot on the balcony at the Blax-
land Galleries last week. Chum Alison
Rehfisch looked smart as paint, which was
all to the good, as the two young creatures
were welcoming the world to a show of their
canvases. Neville Barker and Arthur Murch,
who are also exhibiting, added male support
and nice manners to the gathering. Dattilo
Rubbo, who had taught the four, was ready
to embrace the world when Dora Jarret’s “An
Italian Bypath” was bought by the Gallery.
Albert Collins came to view the pictures, and
Philip Morton gave the blessing. This Letter
particularly likes Neville Barker’s lady in
the Paris hat who is carrying home her
purchase from the fishmonger draped around
her throat like a scarf. It looks a nice fish
—and very tame.
Actor Mayne Linton, believing the pro-
phets who declare that the will wear
out their welcome before a year is past, is
hanging out his shingle at the little Savoy
Theatre on Boxing Night. Wife Nancye
Stewart is to be leading lady in the venture,
and to wish them success the Arts Club
gave them a party last week. Mayne Linton,
for once forsaking his part of bullying
Yankee detective, monologued to acompani-
ments supplied by his wife, who brought
Bakst-like frocking in orange and black into
the picture. Quite the success of the offer-
ings was D. H. Souter’s “Cocky Prays for
Rain.”
Sydney Club women are saving either
to-morrow (Thursday) or Friday evening for
Hugh McCrae’s lecture on Australian Writers
at the Savoy. This is to be a merry dis-
sertation ; Hugh will describe the poets not
only in their moments of inspiration but in
all the mad, glad and sad hours between.
A Calendar of Salads, Savories and Sand-
wiches published in aid of the Surry Hills
Free Kindergarten gives a recipe for a differ-
ent salad for every day from January 1 to
June 11. No housekeeper could possibly
be accused of monotony if she made this
little book her chart.
OVERHEARD.
The Earnest Flap. : “I couldn’t do anything-/ to
shock my mother. The dear old thing reads a
chapter of the Bible every day.”
Her Friend: “Then I should say you couldn’t.
Why, those Janes in the Old Testament must make
us 1929 models look like non-starters.”


DASPYL
AUSTRALIAN MADE
x
BRASS WORK
f
CATALOGUE ’B"
DASPYL
PLUMBERS’
AND ENGINEERS
SUPPLIES
John Danks & Son
MELBOURNE ami SYDNEY
WORKS FOUNPKI) 1859
JUST OUT
A NEW AND REVISED EDITION
OF OUR
Plumbers’ Catalogue
Send for your (post free) copy.
THE LEADING PLUMBERS use Daspyl
Brasswork. It holds a high reputation
throughout the Commonwealth, and
every line in Daspyl Plumbers’ Lead
and Brasswork carries our guarantee.
Daspyl Goods fully comply with the
requirements of the various Boards of
Works; and the range in Plumbers’
Lead and Brass Fittings bearing our
Trade-mark is very complete.
iQ
snummiiiinii
IlillQ
I JOHN
&SON I
aimiimimiimn
miiiuiuiimiimS
:
pTY-
-391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BOOKS ON
AVIATION
MOTOR-BOAT BUILDING
and a Special Work on
Painting and Decorating
Price. Post.
MODERN AVIATION ENGINES —Design, Repair, Construction and
Operation—Complete, Practical and Up-to-date—Describes Many
Typical American and European Engines and Their Installation, in
2 Vols., by Page. Set 45/- 2/6
AIRPLANE ENGINE , ENCYCLOPAEDIA—An Alphabetically-arranged,
Compilation of all Available Data on World’s Airplane Engines—Angle. . 36/- 1/8
AEROPLANES, SEAPLANES AN AERO ENGINES, by Captain P. Sumner.. 30/- 1/6
AERIAL NAVIGATION AND METEOROLO GY—Comprehensive Treatise in
Simple Language, by Yancey 20/- 1/3
AEROBATICS, by H. Barber 13/6 -/8
ABC OF FLIGHT, by L. Le Page 10/- -/6
EVERYBODY’S AVIATION GUlDE—Complete Simplified Treatise, by Page .. 10/- -/6
ABC OF AVIATION, Elementary Instruction Manual, by Page 5/- -/4
LEARNING TO FLY —Course of Elementary Flying Instruction, by Swoffer .. 9/- -/6
SEAPLANE FLYING—R. A. F. Manual 1/6 -/3
MOTOR BOATS AND BOAT MOTORS—Design, Construction—Operation and
Repair—Complete Handbook —Page 20/- 1/3
TWENTY EASY-TO-BUILD MOTOR BOATS—Book of Small Boat Plans and
How to Build Them —Chapman 10/- -/6
SIXTEEN IDEAL MOTOR BOATS—How to Build—Practical Treatise, by
Chapman 10/- -/6
MOTOR BOAT DESIGNS —Text-book Containing Complete Designs of 32
Ideal Runabouts, Cruisers and Auxiliaries, etc., by Chapman 10/- -/6
WOODEN BOAT AND SHIP BUlLDlNG—Practical Course, by R. Van Gaasbeek 7/6 -/6
MOTOR BOAT MANUAL —With Special Section on Outboard Motors and Boats 6/6 -/6
OUTBOARD MOTOR BOAT MANUAL, by Smith 6/- -/4
BOAT BUILDING FOR AMATEURS—FuII Instructions for Designing and
Building Punts, Skiffs, Canoes, Sailing Boats, etc., by Kemp 4/6 -/4
MARINE OIL ENGINE HANDBOOK—Handbook of Instruction 3/6 -/4
MOTOR BOATS —Construction of Marine Motors and Motor Boats by Strickland 3/- -/4
SMALL BOAT BUILDING, by Patterson 4/6 -/4
PAINTING AND DECORATING
WORKING METHODS
A textbook for Apprentice and Journeyman.
All about Colors and how to Mix them.
Tools, Materials, Outside and Inside work.
Kalsomining, Paper-hanging, Wood-finishing, Floor-finishing
With the help of this book anybody can become an expert Painter and
Decorator.
Plain language is used and the most difficult jobs are made easy.
PRICE, 12/6 POST FREE.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
TECHNICAL BOOKSHOP ,
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
THE SUNSHINE AUTO
EADER
I
■ ■ i ■■
Mil
.
QUICK HARVESTING cuts down
the period of crop insurance;
reduces loss of grain from shed-
ding; makes the harvest season
short, sharp, and therefore more
economical.
’
12ft. CDT. SELF-PROPELLED.
HARVESTS FORTY ACRES OF CROP
IN A DAY.
CONSUMES ONLY HALF A GALLON
OF PETROL TO THE ACRE.
a
m I
saw
Ssi
m
STORM FLATTENED AND TANGLED
CROPS ARE SUCCESSFULLY
HARVESTED BY THE
SUNSHINE AUTO HEADER.
ALSO CROPS INFESTED WITH THISTLES.
NO OTHER MACHINE CAN EQUAL
ITS PERFORMANCE.
I
M
§
S M
as
TWO MEN ONLY REQUIRED
on the Auto Header one to
drive and one to tend the
bagging. Labor is the most
expensive item in harvest costs.
This machine reduces it to a
minimum.
r
:
-
mHIH
■
.
fc'. ■ • V. ' ,•
mkmrnm
vs*
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE, AUSTRALIA.
BRANCHES:
664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne. 27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide. Cr. Murray and King Streets, Perth.
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
H. V. McKAY (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
Catalogue, Price and Terms posted jree on request.


to
*£V5
*>o
<tyv ,4°4Tv§v -?
cK ✓
o*
ẅ
<4l v»
The Unique Gift
of the Year
The Harwood automatically winds itself by the
simple ordinary movements of the wearer’s
arm. Upon the wrist it never stops. Off the
wrist it will keep going for 34 hours. The
Harwood is Dust-proof, Damp-proof and
Cannot Overwind. It is the greatest refinement
in watchmaking and the latest thing in Christ-
mas Gifts. This year the original donor will
give a Harwood Self-winding Watch {
Sole Agents for Australasia :
ARONSON & GO. (Pty) LTD., Holt House, York St.,
Sydney.
Merry Christmas!
BY ARTHUR GROOM
ILUJS'TDATED BY HARPY J. WEXTON
Synopsis : Sandy Jaclcson, tired of
looking for work and utterly broke in
Brisbane, decides to get back to fami-
liar surroundings, as far west as
possible. Pratten, commercial traveller ,
refuses him a lift in Queen-street, and
Sandy crawls into the small space in
the ba>clc of the car. On the way Pratten
takes a corner too sharply and crashes
into an embankment. Sandy, semi-con-
scious, is discovered, and induces the
commercial to take him with him, on
condition that he will look after the car
and sleep in it at night. At Clon-
curry Sandy meets his old friend
Jim Walters, and accepts a job
to go with him to Boolgooroo
station. Reaching the station, Jim
Walters meets an addition, a city girl,
who is looking after the store, and
whose name, station-owner Jack Hin-
ton tells him, is Helen Delaney. Her
presence embarrasses Walters, but
Sandy', who has brought a souvenir
pair of jazz garters with him, has
just enough respect for her to get the
hands engaged in a contest to discover
what kind of garters Bliss Delaney
wears. Bliss Delaney is greatly em-
barrassed by the sudden interest the
hands take in her, but Walters, who
gets to know of the joke, xvins anew
place in Miss Delaney’s regard by
quashing the competition, and a strong
love affair develops between them.
ẃ
“Yes.”
“Lord! She’ll tell the
wife. James, James, you’re
an utter fool; and you’re
wounded so damn hard you
don’t quite know where you are. You’re
in love—aren’t you?”
“What?”
“I said you’re in lpve—cruelly—hope-
lessly.”
“I didn’t say I was.”
“No, and a skeleton doesn’t tell you it’s
dead.”
Jim Walters subsided into the chair.
“I don’t know what to do,” he declared
dolefully. “What chance has a man got?”
“If you ask her you’ll find out.”
Jim Walters scratched his head moodily.
“I say, Jack,” he commenced in an even
tone. “How about saying a word for me?
I don’t think she’s quite taken much of
a fancy to me. I know she tolerates me
and all that; but the photo made me
think otherwise. She might have some
other bird in her mind.”
“That girl thinks a lot of you,” Hinton
almost whispered with intense eagerness.
His eyes were alight, and he leant for-
ward. “Damn it, you’ve got to take a
chance. The day after to-morrow I want
you to take your men out to the back of
the run—to Eldeetil Waterhole. You’ll
have to stay there branding close on four
or five months. You’d better tell her your
feelings before you start, or this ‘some
other bird’ of yours might come to light
and hop in first.”
“Four or five months,” Walters stam-
mered, “without as much as seeing”
“You liked it before.” Hinton chewed
a small string of tobacco.
“Oh, it doesn’t matte?,” Jim Walters
answered with a shrug of the shoulders.
“When do we start —the day following to-
morrow, you said?” Jim Walters smiled
and straightened up. “Hell, Jack,” he
declared genially, “I’ve got it bad. Can’t
help it, and I reckon that’s all there is
about it.”
“You sound as though you were dropping
back to reason again. Now let’s talk busi-
ness.”
CHAPTER XV.
A Misadventure.
The day dawned warm and clear. Two
blackboys rounded up more than a hundred
horses, and yarded them in a cloud of dust.
The stockmen came through the early
morning light, very lightly dressed in shirts
and flannels and khaki or moleskin trousers,
and laughed and swore and argued over
the freshness of the horses to be ridden.
Each man dumped a swag and a few
personal belongings close to a heavy thor-
oughbrace near the yards.
“Who’s going to be cook on this trip?”
Bob Owen asked loudly.
“Sandy Jackson,” Jim Walters answered
calmly. He knew Sandy to be quite a
passable cook, though inclined to be rough
and lumpy in his mixtures, and not .very
clean in his methods.
“Hell! Won’t he shove the poisoned
tucker into me!” Bob Owen growled; he
appeared to adopt the view that he was
doomed.
Following upon a hurried breakfast the men
hitched the heavily-laden thoroughbrace
behind seven lively horses that had not
seen harness for more than a year. Sandy
Jackson mounted the driver’s seat, and two
men climbed up beside him. Three men
clung to the leaders’ heads. Already sweat
had broken out in white streaks on the
fresh horses. Not a cloud was showing
in the brazen sky.
An open track lay ahead. It was a short
cut, branching across three miles of coun-
try which was, exceedingly boggy in wet
weather, while the usual motor road twisted
off to the north, then curved round slowly
for five miles until it hit the short track
again. The Eldeetil Waterhole lay approxi-
mately a hundred and twenty-six miles
north-west of the Boolgooroo homestead,
though the distance had never been mea-
sured.
Sandy Jackson gathered the bundle of
reins firmly. “Let ’em go, boys,” he
shouted. “Stop ’em—block ’em! Let ’em
go! Oodle-doodle-do! ”
The three men skipped away from the
team. The leaders reared high, almost oyer,
until a heavy whip flashed across the hind-
quarters. With a dislocating jerk they
began to haul their load out along the
black-soil road.
The thoroughbrace gathered speed, swayed
from side to side. The pole hoi'ses can-
tered heavily, and allowed the leaders
greater freedom. Sandy Jackson straight-
ened up and plied his long whip again.
“Pull, yer flamin’ flash cows!” he shouted.
“Pull!”
A mile along the road the team steadied
down a little, and the thoroughbrace ceased
to wobble dangerously across the soft track.
“We’ll ride the worst horses in the mob
to-day,” Jim Walters announced at the
stockyards.
His enthusiasm caught on, though one
or two of the men silently cursed his deci-
sion. They knew it needed greater courage
to funk than to ride'.
Each man was helped to saddle his horse.
The men worked in pairs. Each horse was
allowed to race around the yard, fully
saddled, and was then hobbled until all
Were ready.
Jim Walters stood back and surveyed the
stockmen. Eleven men stood ready. He
felt a growing eagerness to rush away to
ARDELL (who arrives on Page 51).
the store. He had been thinking of this
moment almost every minute of the past
twenty-four hours. The men would gallop
out to the side of the store. She would
see them; and he could branch away to say
good-bye to her while the men went on.
He would tell her just how much he cared
for her. He felt a strange calm. He knew
he could do it, and he had thought over
almost every answer she could possibly
give.
“Right,” he said as calmly as possible.
“Open the gate, Alf.”
Alf Eden swung the yard gate wide, and
the men tightened belts and armbands.
Three or four had sprayed their trousers
with water to help them grip.
They mounted slowly, until two horses
bolted around the big outer yard. One
man flew from his saddle and slid before
a cloud of dust. Like a rabbit he darted
up and mounted again before any comment
had passed.
One by one the horses were forced or
coaxed from the yard. They moved sulkily
until the open was reached. Then it seemed
as though an animal sign had been given.
A grey mare snorted away from the lead.
Every horse bolted or rooted out over the
paddock, criss-crossed, twisted, snorted and
galloped wildly.
“It’s a good job there’s the horse-paddock
fence around the loons,” the station cook
commented from the safety of his kitchen
verandah.
Down past the store, in clouds of dust,
the stockmen passed, holding tight, yelling
wildly. One horse fell, but regained its
feet without dislodging its rider. A rowdy
cheer went up to mingle with the dust,
and the wild charge continued on up the
black-soil road.
Jim Walters swung his irritable black
gelding around sharply, and galloped back
towards the store. He tied the quivering
animal securely in the small yard before
the store, then darted eagerly up the stairs.
The store was open. He vaulted across
the counter, passed in through the small
doorway into the office, and paused in
astonishment.
Mrs. Hinton sat at the office table look-
ing through an old fashion-magazine. She
gave the appearance of a woman idly pass-
ing the time.
“I thought you had gone, Mr. Walters,”
she smiled.
“I came back—to say good-bye to Helen,”
he answered eagerly.
“Did she know you were coming?”
“No, I never said anything about it. Do
you know where she is?”
“I’m afraid I do not,” Mrs. Hinton re-
plied quietly. “She got up early this morn-
ing, watched your preparations for a while,
and about twenty minutes ago suddenly
asked me if I would mind the store for a
few minutes.”
“Where did she go?”
“I’ve no idea.”
“Didn’t she say anything, Mrs. Hinton?”
Walters’s voice was appealing.
“Not a word, but I have a slight idea
she intended riding somewhere. She was
in riding costume.”
Jim Walters walked from the office with-
out another word. He felt as though he
had been struck a vile blow. Evidently
she had ridden out of his way. She knew
he was going somewhere out on the run,
and had probably guessed at his intention
to seek her.
He mounted his horse, became suddenly
alive to the animal’s treacherous nature, and
galloped out after the stockmen. He fol-
lowed the tracks of the thoroughbrace until
he came out through the horse-paddock
gate on to the main road again.
She had slighted him. He hardly knew
just how he had been hurt, except that a
curious heavy anger seemed to hurl the
blood into his head in a pounding agony.
He lashed his horse.
But Helen waited long for him to pass
her. She had stolen away on her pet mare
along the roundabout motor road, and had
hidden behind a low bush to surprise him.
Impulse and an uncontrollable desire to say
good-bye, and to wish him the best of luck
had caused her to act suddenly; but she
did not know the stockmen would take the
(Continued on page 51.)


w
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY —Price 3d.
<r
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
Startling Innovations at
n
vW'/r
Dancing till 1 a.m.
EVENING DRESS OPTIONAL
, A La Carte Service.
Minimum Charge 7/6.
Afternoon and Evening
Popular Cabaret Teas
Monday to Friday ..... 2/6
Saturday 4/-
’Phone M 4131 for your reservation.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] C[?] [?]00[?] P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited
S[?] [?] M[?]
So far as this Letter knows, the Orontes
is the first ocean liner to give its women
passengers real ironing facilities, and that
is the feature of the new million-pound
ship in the eyes of this Page. Of
course there is a big laundry where all the
liner’s linen is done, but in addition there
is the useful little room in the first-class
section equipped with tables, washtubs and
electric irons. Making her maiden voyage
here the 20,000-tonner cut a day off schedule
time, and arriving on the Sabbath found a
wharf packed with humanity waiting to give
her welcome. The lounge with its beautiful
pillars and panelling has inlaid polished
wood flooring; other parts of the boat are
carpeted with fanciful rubber material.
’l'lie verandah cafe, cheerfully picked out in
two blues and silver, with cabinets and book-
cases, is among many comfy appointments.
The third-class accommodation is infinitely
superior to that offered to first-class travellers
not so very many years back. Altogether
the Orient Co. seems to have provided at
least one good reason why people leave home.
A traditional and extra-enjoyable event of
inter-State tennis championships week is the
garden party given by Mr. and Mrs. Norman
Brookes at their Franlcston holiday home.
This year it was as successful as ever. Bath-
ing-suits, packs of cards and bridge scorevs
sad tennis rackets were laid ready, and all
the guests had to do was to take their pick.
Those who didn’t feel energetic could 101 l in
easy chairs under the trees or beneath gay
umbrellas on the lawn. There were some fine
games of tennis among the champions, and
an interesting set was that in which Cynthia
Brookes and her father played Bob Sclilcs-
inger and Elaine Lucas. Cliff House is a
very pleasant place whose old-fashioned
garden just now is full of foxgloves, roses,
lilies, broom and sweet william. Tea was
served in the white-green bungalow, where
Mrs. Brookes, who wore chiffon printed with
poppies and other blossoms, had the aid of
her trio of growing-up daughters.
Also in connection with the tournament the
L.T.A.Y. gave a dance at the Kooyong club-
house. Mrs. G. A. Cook and Helen Sage
decorated the big room with Dorothy Perkins
roses and grouped quantities of mixed noweis
in baskets in the marquee, where there was
supper. Among visitors who danced were
Mr. and Mrs. S. Jamieson, Mrs. M. Cox, m
lapis lazuli blue chiffon, and Mrs. Conway, of
McPherson has given £25,000 to
the Queen Victoria Hospital, earmarked for
the building of a community block for women
and children. About 50 more patients will
thus be provided for, bringing the, institution s
complement to 200. The joyful news was
announced at a tea-party at Menzies, pre-
sided over by Mrs. Norman Brookes, presi-
dent of the hospital, the other day, but the
name of the donor wasn’t given out till later.
This gathering, representative of auxiliary
workers of the Q.V.H., was convened to dis-
cuss means of raising £lO,OOO to rebuild and
enlarge the culinary department, which is now
inadequate. The benefactor s cheque was
cheering to these helpers, and plans were at
once laid for a market fair on Henley lawns.
Rowing-clubs are to be asked to run a carni-
val on the Yarra in conjunction. There were
offers of a dance, a tennis tournament and
other enterprises to help the good cause.
Mrs. W. M. Robins promised that her auxi-
liary would be responsible for the collection
of £lOOO.
A hundred and fifty guests assembled for
bridge and dancing at W. R. Sedon’s home,
Mont Albert-road, on Saturday night. Not
many people can boast such a wonderful
collection of pictures, etchings and antiques
as Mr. Sedon can, and his treasures lured
the attention of his guests from jazz and
even trumps. The spacious ballroom is a
gallery of oil- and water-colors, and the bil-
liard-room provides wall space for an impos-
ing array of etchings. A section of Mr.
Sedon’s old silver and china belonged to a
relative, the famous Sir John Franklin,
whose crest and coat-of-arms figure on a
plaque above the open fireplace in the ball-
room. Immense bowls of pink and white
peonies, rhododendrons and irises decorated
the house. Among the guests were Bill
Mclnnes and his wife, the George Bells.
Mrs. Harold Herbert. Charles Wheeler and
Louis McCubbin. Mrs. Ruby Mair, an old
friend of the host, gave him assistance in
running the well-staged party.
The Wattle League gave welcome to the
Frank Russells, and also entertained the Rev.
Irving Benson and liis wife at the Lyceum
Club on Saturday afternoon. The president,
Mrs. Britomarte James, in navy blue and
white georgette and dark blue straw hat, did
the speech-making, and handed bunches of
gum-nuts and wattle to the two ladies. Padre
Benson and Mr. Russell talked breezily about
places and people, and in between there was
tea, music by a trio of instrumentalists and
verse-speaking by Beatrice Tiernan. Inci-
dentally the guests had a peep at Aileen
Dent’s show of landscapes and portraits,
then awaiting its official opening. The
artist’s chief effort is a portrait of Mrs.
James.
Two old-established Camperdown families
were made relations when Mary, daughter
of the Gerald Cummings, of Jellalabad, Dar-
lington, and Ronald, son of the A. G. Camp-
bells, of Barbreck; Wlioorel, assumed double
harness at the Camperdown kirk. White
lace with a train of silver tissue'and billows
of tulle as veil clothed the bride. Two small
girls in Kate Greenway frocks of pale-green
tulle were trainbearers. Of the four brides-
maids two were clad in pale-pink satin moire
and the others in leaf green. Their coiffures
were wreathed with flowers, and they car-
ried posies of sweet-peas.
When she became Mrs. Leslie Puddicombe
the other day, Myra, eldest daughter of the
Peter Johnsons, of Toorak. chose lace for
her array. A rare Honiton veil flowed
over a gown of ivory chantilly and a bouquet
of water-lilies. Pink-flowered chiffon frocks
and shady pale-green hats were worn by
the two ’maids, who carried sheaves of del-
phiniums and pink carnations.
A bride of last week departed from the
usual by adding a Spanish touch to her
array. Her Brussels-lace veil was arranged
in mantilla fashion over a tall comb and
cascaded over a silvery-brocaded gown. A
contrast in modes was furnished by her
attendant maid, whose largish lilac hat
shadowed a diaphanous floral-patterned frock.
Dr. A. Law, vicar of the fashionable parish
of St. John’s, Toorak, has prevailed upon
Mrs. A. J. Lillie, of the same exclusive
suburb, to be the sharer of his joys and
sorrows. The engagement has caused a flut-
ter. It is the second venture of both parties.
Synge’s “Riders to the Sea,” with some
light relief in “The Dear Departed” and
“Everybody’s Husband,” was put on by the
Repertory Society last week. The last-
named comedy, by Gilbert Cannan, enabled
the players to cover four different periods of
fashion in their dressing. There was the
maiden of to-day, trying on her wedding
gown, and her mother, grandmother and
great-grandmother, the quartette agreeing
after discussion that all husbands are the
same. Individual successes were scored by
Dorothy Slutzkin, Boneitta Smith, Marjorie
Coppel, Leura Andrews and Reg Cattlin.
This smiling maid is Joyce Turner, who
made her first bow with the Repertory
Society in the
comedy r6le of
Princess An-
gelica in “The
Rose and the
Ring” at the
Playhouse on
Saturday. She
has appeared
with success in
many perfor-
in anc e s for
charity. Rus-
kin made the
picture of the
bright little
actress. In the
Thackeray
nantomime she
is the ugly
Princess who
becomes a
beauty when
she finds the
magic rose.
“The Rose and the Ring,” Thackeray’s
pantomime, which is the Repertory Soci-
ety’s Christmas offering, had its first night
at the Playhouse on Saturday. It has a
fairy-tale plot, with a magic rose, a magic
ring and a charming sprite who waves a
magic wand to right the wrongs of a prince
and princess whose kingdoms have been
usurped. The costumes of the players, which
range over many periods, have been copied
from Thackeray’s own sketches. The prin-
cess’s wedding gown is of primrose brocade,
and there are small fairies in frocks that
look like green and and brown leaves. Gen-
darmes, lords, ladies, monks, an archbishop
and a whole bevy of other characters join
in delightful songs and dances. Frank Clew-
low has staged the panto, with curtains
for wings, and just sufficient back cloth,
props and other setting to suggest each
scene, but it is done very colorfully and
effectively.
Students of the Albert-street Con. went
through their paces at a> recent recital. The
warm tones of Dawn Harding’s voice were
heard in excerpts from Richard Strauss;
Millicent Osmond tackled the ethereal
nuances of Debussy, and Bessie Dougall also
took her stand with the advance guard ot
the vocal brigade. The coming-on pianists
included Eunice Garland, Valda Johnstone
and Winifred McDonald. Zoe Harrison s
fiddle leavened the vocal and pianistic fare.
Grace Evans's pupils gave this Chatterer
a dress rehearsal of the song recital which
is happening in Soots’ Church Hall as tins
Letter puts on its last flecki of paint. The
students showed the usual results of Miss
Evans’s more than intelligent voice-training
—an exquisitely sensitive ear this lady has.
The profits from the recital, with Irene
Cox helping with her violin and_ Grace Lynch
at the piano, go to the Women’s Hospital.
A two-in-one show was held at No. 9
for the greater part of last week. The goods
for sale embraced articles constructed of
stringy-bark, flax and raffia by Henrietta C.
Walker, and also a collection of work by
invalided soldiers and army nurses. A work-
ing exhibit which attracted attention was a
demonstration of hooked-rug making, a
method which, if memory serves aright, was
introduced here by Mrs. Walker. At the
Country Women’s show in the Town Hail
a few months ago it was seen to what per-
fection of design the bits from the rag-bag
could be fashioned in this way, and there
has been quite a boom in such products.
These bright eyes and smile are perks
of Mrs. E. Dyson, pictured by Marietta.
She is presi-
dent of the
Junior League
of Music-
makers,
formed to aid
i n collecting
the million
shillings re -
quired to
found a per-
manent o r -
chestra in this
city. Outside
this interest
she is always
ready to give
a hand to any
charity, and
frequently
sings for some
good cause.
The lady’s
husband i s
the still
fondly remembered Edward Dyson who
wrote “The Golden Shanty” and a hundred
other good things. He has been an invalid
for several years past.
On two evenings last week Carrie Haase’s
nicely-modulated voice was heard at the
Queen’s Hall in verses and a play of
Oriental atmosphere. Jessie Traill set the
stage with appropriate local color, and Miss
Haase wore robe and turban. When speaking
the various roles of a translation of Andre
Gide’s play “Le Retour de l’enfant Prodigue,”
she assumed a deep purple garment that
hailed from Palestine. The Rubaiyat and
Flecker’s “Golden Journey of Samarkand”
figured on the programme. Many lovely
flowers rewarded Miss H'aase, who had not
made a public appearance for some time.
A flatteringly large audience of good list-
eners graced the d6but of John Simons as
a solo pianist at the Assembly Hall. His
teacher, F. W. Homewood, was there wear-
ing the smile of the well-pleased, and the
director of the Uni. Con., Bernard Heinze,
Captain and Mrs. Simons and their daughter
Nancy, the Allen lady and Biddy and many
other music-lovers gave the young student a
well-earned ovation.
Westralia’s feminine M.L.A., May Hol-
man, took a farewell cup of tea with mem-
bers of the Women Citizens’ Movement at
their club rooms at the end of her three-
weeks’ sojourn here. She tendered some
advice regarding the part women should play
in the government of their country, and said
they must educate themselves for the job
by taking an intelligent interest in all public
affairs. Miss Holman has very successfully
represented the Forrest electorate for five
years, and she knows what she’s talking
about.
Wearing a gown of black satin, Mrs
George Kelly served luncheon at her Toorak
home last week, when guests were assembled
to welcome back Mrs. Geoffrey Palmer.
The Royal Victorian Institute for the
Blind has gathered about it a band of
workers, headed by Mrs. Jim Angus, that
is always ready to put its shoulder to the
wheel to smooth out financial difficulties.
An “Olde English Fayre” on the lawns of
the institute on St. Kilda-road, held during
last week-end, was the latest enterprise
undertaken for the good cause. The goods
purveyed were modern enough, the archaic
touch being introduced in the panniered
gowns and other early-Victorian trappings
of the sales ladies. Though wintry con-
ditions marred the beginning of the market-
ing, there was plenty of sunshine on Satur-
day. when the attendance was good and
trade brisk.
A wonderful holiday has been planned by
Jean Stevenson and Miss Black, of Fintou,
both brain-weary after a strenuous year.
They leave next week for Maoriland, where
Miss Stevenson will revisit her home in
Dunedin after a three-years’ absence whilst
her companion foregathers with old friends.
Ethel Forshaw, of this city, who is a vocal
■student in London, is getting her opportuni-
ties. Besides supporting Horace Stevens in
Martin Shaw’s ‘‘Birth of Christ” at a
royally-patronised Toe H. gathering at the
Albert Hall, she has been booked for the
role of Leonora in “II Trovatore” in a
Covent Garden Christmas production.
Consigned to Lady Somers and due this
week is a Moth ’plane. While on holiday
in England her Ex. qualified for a pilot’s
certificate and ordered her little air ’bus.
Flying should now become a society pastime,
for there are a number of women here who
have had training at Essendon aerodrome
and can navigate the air. Mrs. Simon Fraser,
Miss Bloomfield, Mrs. J. It. Bell and Nancy
Lyell are amongst those who are acquiring
skill in cloud-riding.
Ann Penn, the English actress playing
lead in “Clowns in Clover,” poured tea at
the Windsor for a number of women scribes
on Thursday. The hostess’s two-piece suit
of apricot-toned shantung was worn with
a felt hat of the same hue. She broached
a scheme for helping the Children’s Hospital
with a million-penny collection.
When Nancy Weir gets to London, her
teacher, Ada Freeman, will be awaiting her,
for Mrs. and Miss Freeman are to leave
for Europe at the end of this month. Our
pianistic hope will give further recitals here
in the meanwhile —she doesn’t leave Aus-
tralia till near the end of March.
Artist Charles Wheeler is strapping up
his paint-box and setting off to look for
inspiration and atmosphere in Maoriland
during the Christmas holidays.
This Chatterer has discovered a place in
this State where males outnumber females
by ten to one. It is the canvas township
which has sprung up round Eildon Weir.
Early to bed and up at sunrise is the rule
of this little community of 400 men and
40 women, and the rule is only broken when
a show comes along. The players can look
out for squalls if their entertainment doesn’t
please. The last lot, headed by Tal Ordell,
received presents all round, but the troupe
before that carried away bruises from chunks
of earth heaved at them by an angry audi-
ence.
Melbourne is about to lose a lovely relic of
early history, the Jolimont-square garden,
where Governor Latrobe sat and smoked his
evening cigar and listened to the red-coated
band of the Marines. The property now be-
longs to the Adult Deaf and Dumb Society,
which is about to realise a long-cherished
dream of building a church on part of the
old garden, and architects are busy measur-
ing to see if a few trees can be saved from
the axe.
The perfumed bracelet has arrived, and
you can take your choice of rose, violet, car-
nation or lilac. These dainty trifles are
made of colored glass, and having a tiny
screw at each end can be refilled with scent
which surrounds the wearer with a dainty
fragrance. Another novelty is the caterpillar
dancing shoe, with the sole in flexible lami-
nations. To be strictly accurate, there isn’t
much shoe, everything being subordinated to
lightness—only a sole and heel, held on with
a jewelled strap. For comfort those -who’ve
got in early declare there’s been nothing to
approach them in the memory of woman.
Lieutenant-Commander Alan Frere is
booked for a sailing early in the New Year. A
term of service at Admiralty House in
London is awaiting him. Mrs. Frere will
accompany her son, but she will leave behind
pretty daughter Joyce, who has a matri-
monial engagement in Sydney this month.
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas McKellar, who gave
up their squattage at Terang and went to
the Old World with their family, are expected
to step ashore from the Orama on Dec. 16.
Daughters Susie and Heather will come
home with their parents, but the son, T. C.
McKellar, wds left behind at Jesus College,
Cambridge.
Florence Sutton is to be the head of a
new sort of training school for women, start-
ing in the New Year. The' object is to turn
out organisation staff-officers. The Y.W.C.A.
is behind this movement, having found great
difficulty in getting suitable women for its
own staff. Hitherto ambitious girls who
sought to prepare themselves for such jobs
have had to go to the U.S.A. Miss Sutton
is an Oxford graduate, and has considerable
scholastic experience behind her.
The Moldavia carried Stanley Bruce and
his wife off for a six months’ holiday in
the other hemisphere. The ex-Prime Min-
ister, though out, is not down, and he in-
tends to re-enter the political arena on his
return, and while abroad he will study indus-
trial conditions in other lands.
This Page slipped last week with regard
to the vice-regal bouquet being missing on the
opening night of “Clowns in Clover.” There
was a posy, but it wasn’t displayed with the
programmes on the balustrade as is usually
the case.


ŵ
W HEN •prPSltgP first created
hosiery, their ideal was to
produce stockings which, in
quality and value, would be with-
out parallel in Australia.
■Prestige hosiery is manufactured
with that ideal constantly in
mind. Small wonder, then, that
flrestigp should be to-day the
one hosiery which is demanded
by the most fastidious of Aus-
tralia’s leaders of feminine fashion.
That this ideal has been achieved
is proved beyond all doubt by
the ever-increasing demand for
fmttge productions.
Even with the tremendous
resources behind tMs progressive
ẁ
organisation there is the utmost
difficulty in meeting the demand
for Hosiery.
Compare an ordinary stocking
with a JireStUjr creation; note the
soft, even fineness of the
product, its fulness, strength and
lovely tonings. You will find
that -JlrPSttgr stockings wear and
wash continuously, and still retain
their beauty. In wear this fine
hosiery gives you that sense of
perfect tailoring, and you realise
how “different” the ifJrpflttg?
creation actually is.
Truly preatUJ? has now become
the standard of comparison with
discriminating buyers of quality
hosiery.
ẃ


ẅ
LEIPZIG SPRING FAIR (GERMANY).
Incorporating Great Engineering and Building F airs.
BEGINS MARCH 2nd, 1930.
BUYERS GOING ABROAD must visit the Leipzig Trade Fair, the
world’s largest Manufacturing, Industrial and Engineering Exposition.
Introductions arranged. Full information free on request to —
w
Authorised Representatives: C. N. KEPPEL, c/o Marcard Lund & Co., Box 585 D G.P.0., Melbourne.
LARS G. BRUNDAHL, 6 Dailey Street, Box 3127 P G.P.0., Sydney.
Amusements.
gYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY'S: SHOW BOAT.
CRITERION: LOMBARDI. LTD.
{RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
I C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
*** MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
HOLD EVERYTHING.
ING 'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE^
CLOWNS IN CLOVER.
COMEDY THEATRE,
LEON GORDON in
BREWSTER’S MILLIONS.
UOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
11 MELBOURNE.
For an Extended Season.
See and Hear the Most Brilliant Singing and
Talking Picture of All Time.
UNIVERSAL’S MOVIETONE TRIUMPH,
SHOW BOAT.
Featuring LAURA LA PLANTE, JOSEPH SCHILD-
KRAUT, OTIS HARLAN, ALMA RUBENS.
HAIR
NEF- n
HERES
wivu -
ẁ
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
ZtPOU&riS (.MEXICAN)
KkUrud Siam,
the GREY *
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (-5/6), 6d. being postage.
ẃ
Boys* Bats
ẅ
AUTOGRAPHED
BY ALAN KIPP AX
All bats have spring handles with
rubber insertion.
SPECIAL COMPLETE
SETS,
25/- and 30/-
N.S.W. Sports Store,
Ltd.
26 Martin Place, Sydney.
ALAN KIPPAX, Director.
w
ŵ
SCOTT’S
“RENOWN” BRAND
ROPE, CORDAGE AND
BINDER TWINE.
Manufactured at Mascot, Sydney,
by
J. SCOTT, LIMITED.
Head Office and Stores:
163 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone:'B2Bol. G.P.O. Box 251 DD.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
It was hot for the races at Ascot, and
the zinnias seemed to enjoy the sunshine
more than the crowd did. A retreat was made
by the vice-regal party for afternoon tea on
the shady verandah of the committee-room.
Lady Goodwin wore ash-rose crepe de Chine,
with hat cn suite ; Mrs. Campbell framed
her fair beauty in a lime-green gown and a
■wide-brimmed black hat: Premier Moore’s
wife was in dove grey, with a pink beige
jumper and stone-grey hat; Mrs. Cecil
Palmer chose powder-blue, with pipings of
deeper -tone and a powder-blue and brown
hat; Mrs. .T. H. S. Barnes was in black
satin beaute; and Mrs. Whittingham’s black
frock was patterned in red and yellow. She
wore a black hat. Mrs. Cadell-Garrick was
in powder blue and beige, with black straw
cloche; Mollie Brenan’s crepe de Chine
was patterned in black, red and white;
Cecily Cadell-Garrick chose Lido blue and
mastic; and Eileen Moore sported delphinium
blue.
Pinero’s play “The Magistrate” was staged
by the Old Grammarians in His Majesty’s.
Jack Reading (son of the Telegraph’s edi-
tor) made a hit as Cis Faringdon. Dorothy
Huxham was Agatha Posket, wearing some
charming gowns; Lexie Drake was Char-
lotte ; and the little music mistress, Beattie,
was given by Berly Telford, who wore a
pretty green gown in the last act.
The Governor and Lady Goodwin invited
a number of guests to the beautiful sunray
board at Government House, among them the
Premier and Mrs. Moore and the newly-elec-
ted Archbishop of Perth (Bishop le Fanu),
and his daughter Mary.
Llywelyn Lucas’s children’s play “The Sun-
god’s Secret” was staged in the Bohemia
Theatre before a large audience on the same
night in aid of the CrSche and Kinder-
garten.
Sanderson Taylor, of. the Courier, lias
reason to feel proud of his daughter Marion,
a pupil of All Hallows’, who has passed the
examination for L.Mus.A., for professional
executants in the pianoforte section, in which
she is the first Queensland candidate to
obtain honors.
Everybody was very sorry to hear of the
death of dainty Margot Bell, the only daugh-
ter of the late J. T. Bell, one-time Home
Secretary, and grand-daughter of the late
Joshua Peter Bell, of .Timbour. It is only
the other day she was a debutante, with
scores qf pretty frocks that came from
London.
Cecil Kerr, who has been selected as
our Rhodes
Scholar for
1930, is a
son of the R.
Kerrs, of Pad-
dington. He
was educated
at the Ithaca
Creek State
School, passing
the scholarship
exam, in 1919.
He went to the
Boys’ Gram-
mar School
and won the
Lilley gold
medal and
other prizes,
and distin-
guished him-
self in hockey
and cricket.
He is a Bache-
lor of Engin-
eeriug, and means to entei- the Faculty of
Science at Oxford.
Ailsa Ladewig, in black satin, had a
bridge party at Timaru Eagle Junction for
Meg Dermer, of Sydney, who was attired in
nasturtium tints. Red roses decked the
lounge for bridge and the supper tables,
and bowls of crimson roses decorated the
drawing-room.
The Toowong Rowing Club’s fete was held
in bright weather between St. Lucia and Too-
wong reaches. A treasure hunt and a con-
fetti battle figured in the programme, and
Attorney-General Neil Macgroarty launched
the affair.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
There’s a lull in social happenings just
now —the sort of calm-before-the-storm that
always precedes Christmas —but numerous
entertainments are being arranged to help
raise money for the big Christmas tree in
the Exhibition Building for the children
of the unemployed.
The marriage of Mrs. Olive Loftus and
Brig.-General Phillips at Chalmers kirk was
a very quiet affair. The bride was gowned
in beige silk lace and georgette, and carried
a sheaf of pale-pink lilies. Her close-fitting
hat was a bois-de-rose tone. Mrs. Loftus
was staying at the Grosvenor prior to her
marriage, and while there entertained
friends at a farewell party—she and her
General will live in Melbourne. The hostess
looked smart in a bois-de-rose taffeta frock,
with a pink shoulder spray.
Mrs. Nelson Clover and her daughters
Patricia, and Pamela will arrive from Maori-
land this week for a brief visit to Mrs.
Clover’s parents, Sidney Kidman and his
lady, after which they will embark for Eng-
land in the Orontes. The Kidman lady and
another daughter, Mrs. Sydney Reid, have
been on a trip to Java, but return this
week.
The E. W. Holdens, with their two daugh-
ters, leave shortly for Blighty. Mrs. Roy
Phillips, of Kensington Gardens, .gave a
farewell bridge party at the Piccadilly for
Mrs. Holden and Margaret. Many friends
were present. The hostess .sported a black
crepe-de-Chine ensemble, the guest of honor
being in lovebird green with a small hat
en suite. Mixed flowers made the tea-tables
gay.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
There has been much rejoicing at the
return of the Bob Hawsons on leave from
the F.M.S. Mrs. Clarke gave a dance, and
Gwen Williams, Hannah Hawson and Mar-
jorie Beresford had bridge parties in their
homes. At the last-named frivol, which
finished up as an informal dance, Mrs.
G. S. D. Beresford, in a confection of eau-de-
nil georgette and lace, shared the hostess s
responsibilities. Marjorie was in shell pink,
and Mrs. Hawson chose a geranium-patterned
ninou with a drooping flare below the hem-
line.
No more will the tattooed lady, the snake-
charmer and the rodeo be seen at White City.
Chocolate whels, hoop-las, switchbacks and
the threepenny dance floor are also on the
rubbish-heap, and the ground is being raised
and levelled for tennis and badminton courts.
Boy Scouts have been set an example in
the doing of good deeds by their patrou,
knight Thomas Coombe. He has offered to
shoulder during his lifetime the mainten-
ance of the new war memorial and the cost
of electric current for illuminating it.
Bardwell Clarke pictures here Phoebe
Holmes, whose greatest interests are the
National Council of Women and the Minis-
tering Child-
ren’s League
The league
owes its exist-
ence to the
Holmes family,
for her mother
was its foun-
der, her father
is treasurer of
the Convales-
cent Home
and his clever
daughter is
president. Miss
Holmes is
also president
of the Nat-
ional Council
of Women, and
for 16 years
has been an
officer of the
Karr aka 11 a
Club. She was
a great worker for the centenary celebra-
tions.
Perth business men have just welcomed
a new State-manager of the National Bank.
S. M. Wreford he is, and comes from Syd-
ney. But Sydney was only a stepping-stone:
like his half-brother, the bank’s general
manager, he got his early training in Adel-
aide, near by his birthplace. Mrs. Wreford,
whom Sydney found a very attractive lady
when it could lure her away from her young
household, comes from Adelaide, too, and
found that village waiting to repeat the
hospitalities and good wishes with which
Sydney had sent her off to her new home.
Flags were at half-mast last week for the
passing of one of the State’s finest citizens,
Dr. Athelstan Saw. Westralian born, he won
a scholarship at the High School, studied
at Trinity College, Cambridge, and St. Mary’s
Hospital, London, and was hon. surgeon at
the Perth Hospital from the age of 27 until
his death. He had a fine war record, and
took into Parliament a broad sense of jus-
tice, courage and foresight. He was Chan-
cellor of the Uni.,. and for 20 years cherished
the interests of education. His extensive
private practice did not keep him from works
of charity, as the Little Sisters of the Poor
and their charges can testify.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The O’Grady was the first to tune in on
the Hobart Plospital’s new radio set, which
is one of the most up-to-date and complete
in Australia. The whole of the mechanical
work was done buckshee by members of the
Postal Electricians’ Union. The Mercury
and 7ZL helped by giving publicity to an
appeal for funds. Matron Gluyas and staff
had tea ready for visitors after the ceremony.
Graceful little- Beattie Jordon gave a
“breaking-up” dancing display at the City
Hall, before a large crowd of admiring
friends and relatives of the young pupils—
one of them is only . 3s.
Recent visitors are Mrs. W. C. B. Daly
(Edith Harrhy) and her husband. Musical
circles are entertaining the attractive lady,
whose songs and whose singing of them are
delightful, especially her settings of some of
A. A. Milne’s verses for children. An Ameri-
can publishing firm has undertaken to give
her compositions to the world.
The Boy Scouts, returned from the Jam-
boree at Arrow Park, were given a civic
reception. Chief Commissioner Marriott
made the speech of welcome, and Mayor
Soundy and other city notables took part.
The boys had the time of their lives and
have returned in the pink.
President’s day at Kingston golf links drew
a crowd in spite of a gale of wind, which
made play none too easy. The C. E. Web-
sters entertained more than 200 guests at
tea in a marquee, at tables gay with yellow
roses.
His Ex. was at the Philharmonic Society’s
concert, when the chief feature of the pro-
gramme was Mendelssohn’s “Song of Praise.”
There was a big audience, and the Blind,
Deaf and Dumb Institution will profit accord-
ingly.
The Repertory Society’s production of
“The Skin Game,” by Galsworthy, was a
tribute to the efficiency of Olive Welton’s
training. Sylvia Henwood, as Chloe, and
W. E. Fuller, as Ilornblower, distinguished
themselves, and the other parts were well
Aelis (Bobbie), second daughter of the
,J. L. Robertsons, sports a sparkler, the gift
of Kenneth Mjackinnon Campbell, of Nant,
Bothwell.


COMMONWEALTH LOAN
5i per cent, at £9B. Average Annual Yield £5/14/4 per cent.
Persons having either small or large sums available for investment should remember that:—
Idle money means waste; the money should be immediately invested.
There is no safer investment than Commonwealth Loans.
Either Stoek or Bonds can be purchased, and the purchaser can sell them at any time on the
Stock Exchange, if he so desires.
The full amount of the subscription can be paid at the time of application; or a deposit of only
10 per cent, need be made, and the balance paid at any time up to February 3, 1930.
Interest is free of STATE INCOME TAX, and runs from the date of lodgment of money.
Full particulars from—
BANKS, SAVINGS BANKS, MONEY ORDER POST OFFICES AND MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES.
. Commonwealth Treasury,
Canberra.
EDWARD G. THEODORE.
Treasurer.
short cut, neither did she see them when
they passed a mile away through a belt
of timber.
Hours passed as she waited, until the
heat grew agonising, and she rode slowly
back towards the homestead, puzzled and
filled with resentment.
The track led up Blinker Creek for more
than a hundred miles before it followed
along a sandy tributary known as the
Humdrum. Great dry plains stretched away
to the south and the south-west. The
Blinker Creek was dry. Rain had not
fallen here for nearly two years. The grass
was grey with age. Bones lay in parched
heaps, almost sanded up on the windy side.
The trees bordering the creek seemed with-
out life, and in the still heat of midday
became massed in mirages which shimmered
away all over the horizon.
Very few cattle were seen. The water
along the Blinker Creek had failed many
months before, and grass was too scarce to
warrant the sub-artesian bores being
worked.
Gradually the cattle had deserted the
plains fringing the creek. Thousands had
wandered many miles down to Southern
Creek, where the country had been a little
more fortunate. Thousands more had
drifted into the Georgina stretches above
the homestead, but the greater number of
the herd had moved right away out on
the north-western portion of the run, where
the remarkable Eldeetil Waterhole stretched
beneath overhanging trees. Very few people
had seen the Eldeetil Waterhole, but it was
talked of all the way up and down the
Georgina.
During three days the stock-camp passed
over the barren land before any vestige of
solid grass was seen. The horses had gone
without water for thirty-six hours. Fifty
miles behind two stockmen had fired the
old steam pumping-engine and drawn water
from a sub-artesian bore.
The plains grew smaller. Timber ran
down from distant, jagged hills, and through
the timber the grass was thicker. The track
almost disappeared. Cattle were now morn
plentiful, but snorted and raced away
through the brittle gidya at first sight, of
the stockmen.
“Hours passed as she waited, until the heat grew agonising.”
The procession
moved out on the
small .plain sur-
rounding the
Gamma Bore just
before sundown of
the fourth day.
Eldeetil Waterhole
would be reached
to-morrow.
A windmill towered above the bore,
gaunt and weird. Cattle lazed about the
long line of troughs which stretched out
from the northern end of a huge mud-tank,
but galloped wildly at sight of the long
string of horses and stockmen winding in
across the greyness of the plain.
“The speedometer on Hinton’s car usu-
ally registers a hundred and one miles to
this bore,” Walters told those curious who
questioned him.
From a woodheap around the auxiliary
steam pumping-plant a dark figure rose,
walked away and stood out in the open.
“It’s a. blackboy,” Jim Walters mused.
“Wonder who it is.”
“Can’t say,” Bob Owen declared. “Must
be a stranger.” He shaded his eyes against
the slanting light. “All the local boys went
out over the desert a year ago.”
“Looks like the ace of spades,” Sandy
Jackson declared from the top of his thor-
oughbrace. “Rope him in, James; he’ll
do to help the cook.”
The blackboy stood still, waiting. As the
space lessened Walters leant forward on
the neck of his horse. Others among the
stockmen seemed deeply interested also. The
blackboy was alone and tall. His features
were just recognisable at the short distance.
“Don’t tell me it’s”—— Bob Owen started
and glanced toward Jim Walters.
“Ardell,” Walters breathed. “I haven’t
‘‘een hint for years.”
“It’s Ardell, no doubt about it,” Bob
agreed heartily. “The greatest blackboy in
the West, I reckon.”
CHAPTER XVI.
The Camp on Eldeetil.
The Eldeetil Waterhole stretched for
three-quarters of a mile east and west. It
was the only outstanding feature of the
Humdrum, and was regarded as permanent.
From its northern bank a thick growth of
gidya stretched away an unknown distance;
across the waterhole to the south a huge
expanse of well-grassed plain showed out in
brilliant contrast.
The stock-camp came to a stop at the
eastern end of the waterhole, within a few
yards of an emergency sub-artesian bore
which had been sunk a few years before.
Three great trees cast a pleasant shade, and
between two of them Sandy whipped up
his ration tent. Between the camp and the
northern encroachment of gidya a bare clay-
pan covered a few acres, bounded at its
eastern end by the old Eldeetil branding
and tailing yards, built thirteen years pre-
viously by old Harry Eldeetil, whose grave
was somewhere away in the depths of the
gidya.
The water lay dark and placid in the
waterhole, giving a fine suggestion of cool-
ness in deep contrast to the vivid heat else-
where. The trees were thick and shady,
mostly bean-trees and coolabahs, with a
sprinkling of black wattles and bloodwoods.
Sandy Jackson
clattered among
pots and pans,
camp-ovens and a
pile of tin plates
and pannikins. It
was almost sun-
down, and he had
to cook a meal.
“Yes,” he con-
tinued talking as
he sliced at a lump
of raw steak, “this
here waterhole was
discovered by old
Harry Eldeetil—
dag of a name, eh?
Him an’ his missus
started out for here with a waggonette an’ a
few cows an’ a bull an’ things. Missus died
somewhere down on the Georgina years
an’ years ago. He come on here hisself,
only he got speared by blacks two years
later. That true, eh, Ardell, you old black
moke? Your gran’dad speared him, weren’t
it now?”
“Quite true,” Ardell replied in his oddly
cultured voice.
“There’s not many men been near this
waterhole. Takin’ all through, blacks,
white, brindles an’ otherwise, not countin’
all the bad niggers hidin’ around in holler
logs till we go to sleep, there’s eighteen of
us in the camp, more or less. Pity help the
poor cook, I say, an’ pity help yourselves
if I make mistakes with the tucker at all.
We got strychnine an’ salt all in the one
box”
“Hell!” Bob Owen stiffened and
scratched his head.
“Stop yer hellin’ an’ let me finish talkin’,”
Sandy answered abruptly and glared. "Now,
as I was sayin’, we all been west years an’
years now, an’ there’s only meself, James
an’ Ardell there, an’ nobody else ever been
the short cut what old Harry Eldeetil made
straight through the gidya into Warkon.
Yes, Mister, we’re in the shape of a triangle
here, one of them oblong triangles with
straight, equal sides more or less, what’s
each one is as long as ’emselves, all bein’
the same. It’s about a hundred an’ twenty-
six mile from here to Boolgooroo home-
stead. It’s about the same or maybe a
little more from Boolgooroo to Warkon, an’
it’s about a hundred an’ forty almost from
here along old Harry’s track straight to
Warkon.”
The majority of the men scarcely
appeared to follow Sandy’s voluble descrip-
tion. They sat in a circle about the camp-
fire, while the dying day gave an impres-
sion of harmony and peacefulness.
“It’s hot as Hell,” Sandy continued, “an’
vet here you all 1 are sittin’ round the
fire. What’s up?”
“We’re hungry,” Alf Eden replied point-
edly.
“Huh!”
Sandy Jackson turned out of several
greasy camp-ovens a menu of fried steak,
potatoes and pumpkin, followed by lumpy
jam tarts.”
“Tear it to bits,” he invited. “It’s all
there is, an’ I hope it gets stuck all the
way down an’ makes you cross-eyed.”
The men' approached eagerly. Ardell
moved up out of the surrounding shadows
and was given a huge plate of beef and
potatoes, softened with queer-looking gravy.
He walked away and sat beneath a thick
overhanging tree in company with two
other blackboys. His big, shiny, sinewy
figure suggested controlled power. For a
black his features were finely chiselled.
“There’s somethin’ about this here water-
hole makes me feel important as blazes,”
Sandy continued to the eating men. “I
feel just like somebody was goin’ to be
buried; but they didn’t know whether to
bury ’em or not. Things is uncertain. The
heat’s bad, an’ there’s dark shadows walkin’
all about the place, an’ old Harry’s grave’s
up there in the gidya somewhere one way
or another. He’s just as likely to shake
hisself with a rattle—it’d be nice, wouldn’t
it?”
Sandy Jackson watched the effect of his
words. One or two of the men glanced
quickly away into the darkness.
“You’re-all as silent as tadpoles to-night,”
Sandy went on. “Pat Donovan said some-
thin’ silly awhile back; but he can’t remem-
ber what it was. Bob Owen’s thinkin’ of all
the good tucker he’s eaten an’ can’t eat
again.”
“Blimey, a man’d be a fool to starve,
anyway,” Bob Owen answered.
Sandy waved a dismissing hand.
“An* James here looks as if he’d left
his best girl behind an’ forgotten her
address ”
“What’s that, Sandy?” Walters started
visibly.
“Nothin’,” Sandy answered. “Only your
body an’ soul an’ stummick’s all of you
what’s here. Your mind’s away to glory.”
Jim Walters continued to eat and gaze
away into the darkness.
Sandy Jackson commenced to clear up
used tin plates, pausing at intervals to
snatch a bite or two.
“Got anything else for pudding?” a stock-
man asked heavily. “I don’t eat tart.”
“Hell you don’t!” Sandy Jackson wheeled
round. “Want flowers on yer grave? Rings
on yer toes? Nothin’ else to eat! We
only come on to camp an hour ago, an’
you go behavin’ like you was in a flash
pub!”
“Aw, I was only just asking in case you
had,” the stockman grumbled.
“Tart’s good enough for any man,” Sandy
snapped. “I seen pigs fed on tarts”
“And blokes cuddling them,” Bob Owen
interposed. “Talking of tarts now”
Bob Owen was followed by others, and
tales were told of adventure in dark places,
tales of cunning, of trickery, of a cruel
murder. Tales of all sorts brought up from
the past.
Sandy Jackson washed his dishes very
casually. Old Pat
Donovan walked
away and slept
soundly with his
mouth open. Jim
Walters gazed out
moodily in the direc-
tion of the distant
homestead.
Fifty yards away
Ardell lit a small fire.
His figure could be
seen silhouetted
against its glare, and
the glowing black
figures of the other
two blackboys sitting
opposite him. He
rose, though no white
man saw him rise.
For a few moments
he stood silently gaz-
ing down into the
depths of the fire,
while the other two
blackboys seemed to
be urging him on by
gesture and words. At
last he turned away
a few feet into the
warm darkness.
Through the dark-
ness, through the hot
stillness of the great
overhanging trees,
and across the black,
still water below
floated the richest
baritone voice ever
heard in the West.
The stockmen
round the big fire
abruptly ceased their
chatter and remained
as though carven from
stone.
“It’s Ardell,” Sandy whispered, and
stepped away into shadow.
No concert hall could have carried the
voice better. The night air seemed to give
it an added quality.
“Abide with me, fast jails the eventide.”
“Gawd!” Bob Owen muttered. “It’s a
hymn! ”
> The men about the camp-fire remained
motionless. Jim Walters gripped his hands
together. The singer sounded almost fear-
ful in his appeal. It was an appeal from
the soul of a man who would never fully
understand just what a soul was.
At last the hymn drew to an end, though
Ardell had forgotten a number of the
words. He appeared again before the fire,
and received a shirt from Muldoo in full
payment. The contrast of silence again
became almost vivid. It seemed as if the
atmosphere had been robbed of air, leaving
it dead and useless.
Jim Walters felt a desire to talk. He
approached the fire.
(Continued on next page.)


';
w
SAa/je.
Fashion in China
varying in
Chinaware as in all
else, are constant in this
that a tea-cup and its saucer
must be exquisitely light.
English Bone China alone
has this perfection. One
of this season’s most fashion-
able 'designs is illustrated.
To say that every piece
bears the name of Shelley
is to say that it is English
Bone China of the best.
ro sec rue latest
SHELLEY
Tea S ETS -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
• China
Nursery Ware
iy Lucie Attweu
6-Hiida Cowham
DomesticWarje
Jelly Moulds
_
• mw>i
Of ANY IN
WRITS TO
ftV.NIATH C CO.tTO.
)3},CLARIHCI it.
• VO NBY
It is impossible to buy a
better plug than the
LODGE
for any engine at any
price.
Lodge C 3 is illustrated—the plug for
all engines screwed metric.
&
0
m
Lodge Plugs
can be bought
in sealed
metal boxes
from leading
accessory
dealers,
garages and
stores.
LODGE PLUGS, LTD.,
RUGBY, ENG.
mm
m
mm&sm
m
m
m.
9 «
SI
' fe ,4>
IK
• • ;«
S5T?^
ii
BUILD HUNDREDS OF
WORKING MODELS
When a Meccano boy wants a new toy he builds
it himself —a different one every day if he feels so
inclined. Not only does he build toys, he also builds
real working models of Motor Oars, Aeroplanes,
Cranes, Bridges, and hundreds of other engineering
structures. He builds them with Meccano parts
because they are real engineering parts in miniature.
All Meccano parts are standardised and the same
parts can be used in hundreds of different models.
Meccano, the most thrilling hobby in the world,
becomes more fascinating every day. This year the
Outfits are better than ever, and never before have
so many models been shown in the Manuals of
Instructions.
Ask your dealer to show you the new Meccano
Outfits.
PRICES OF MECCANO OUTFITS.
*Carton. t Cabinet.
BOYS! SEND FOR THIS
NEW MECCANO 800K —
FREE.
Beautiful illustrations show the
marvellous engineering models
that can be built with Meccano.
Meccano Outfits are fully described
and many other interesting details
of this wonderful hobby are given.
A FREE copy of this new Meccano
Book in exchange for the names
and addresses of three chums.
Write clearly and put No. 42 after
your name for reference.
E. G. PAGE & CO.
(Dept. 1,2),
Box, 18S2K, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me FREE
Meccano Book.
I enclose names and
addresses of three chums.
MECCANO
Wholesale Agents in Australia:
E. G. Page ta Co. (Dept. 42),
52 Clarence Street, Sydney.
MANUFACTURED BY MECCANO, LTD., OLD
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN'
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
“Well, we all heard. Ardell’s attempt to
explain himself,” he began. “I always knew
he could sing; but it’s the first time I’ve
heard him sing anything right through. It
strikes me it’s a queer world when a black-
boy can sing a hymn in payment for a
shirt, and strike a mob of hypocrites, such
as we are, dumb!”
“I slept in a church more’n once,” Sandy
said slowly, “an’ I pinched three little mats
out of another church an’ pawned ’em for
drinks; but that there darn singin’ makes
a bloke want to punch hisself into bein’
good.”
“Ardell has a history,” Jim Walters said
almost to himself.
“You bet your socks,” Sandy carried on.
“Ardell v r as put in a mission station an’
told to say prayers an’ graces for breakfast
an’ all that. He had to say .’em before he
got anythin’ to eat, so he reckons. They
told him it was all to make a man of him;
but he reckoned no graces an’ hymns an’
things’d ever make him throw boomerangs
straight, so he cleared out.”
“Where did he learn to speak so well?”
Bob Owen asked.
“Come natural to him,” Sandy declared,
“just the same as it come to you or me;
but when you try to teach niggers religion
an’ things, you might as well try to stop
worms from wrigglin’.”
A short silence followed Sandy’s dis-
closure.
“Trying to teach anybody religion’s waste
of time,” Alf Eden protested slowly. “Reli-
gion’s the curse of the world.”
“I think you’re wrong,” Jim Walters
answered, and one or two nodded agree-
ment.
“Prove me wrong.” Alf Eden, who was
inclined to argue, demanded.
“I’m afraid I can’t do that,” Jim Walters
replied. “Religious beliefs are hardest
things to prove.”
“I’ll tell you somethin’ what hap-
pened once, an’ I can’t forget,” Sandy said,
coming to Walters’s rescue. “It happened
down on the coast outside of Bowen years
an’ years ago. A bird called Freeman —he
married a young girl only about twenty.
She was terrible pretty, an’ they was mar-
ried by a Justice of the Peace; mainly be-
cause they didn’t belong to no church at
all. They was dinkum athletes”— — Sandy
scratched his head slowlj r . ‘‘Think I got
the wrong word, James.”
“Atheists?” Jim Walters suggested.
“Athleists,” Sandy ventured. “Yes, 1
thought it was that. Anywny, this couple
turned into dinkum athleists, an’ run the
churches down red-hot. They used to swear
black an’ blue against all religions.
“Well, all in the course of time an’ nature
a pair of twins come along, and they wasn’t
christened at all, though all the local per-
sons tried to rope an’ dip ’em religious
fashion. No, nothin’ ’d make Freeman 01
his missus look at religion. They didn’t
reckon it was any good to ’em. Freeman
took on contract woodcuttin’. That was
when the twins was four. Freeman didn’1
know they was playin’ behind a bush near
a tree he was cuttin’ down. He cut the
tree through; it fell heavy an’ killed the
kids almost instantaneous.”
“Good God!” Bob Owen exclaimed.
“Yes, it’s a blanky fact,” Sandy went on
“an’ when Freeman run up he called hr
missus. She dragged me down, an’ whei.
she saw ’em lyin’ there all she could say
was ‘My God! My God!’ Freeman was
the same, only worse, because it was his
fault, all said an’ done. He was sayin’
‘My God!’ too without knowin’ he was
doin’ it.”
An impressive silence followed Sandy
Jackson’s story.
“Yes,” he continued, “I’d like to know
just what made two athleists talk like that.”
One of the stockmen spat into the fire
"Dunno,” he said emphatically.
“No, I know you don’t, an’ no more doe;
nobody else.”
(To be continued next weelc.)
Ballad of the Captain-General.
’Twas in the late October, three centuries
agone, . ,
The “noble court” of Pelsart, its landward
sittings done, - , „
Departed the Abrolhos and left for all to see
Jerome Cornells hanging upon a gallows-
That captain of chance cut-throats, who rose
and shortly fell,
Bought one brief hour of glory, and paid its
price in Hell!
Cast down, this broken vessel through
scornful, quiet years
Will lie as lieth yonder your broken ship,
mynheers.
Your chemist out of Harlem swings strangely
to and fro,
A gesture due to Justice, but none will heed
or know,
Though long the south winds flutter his
noisome rags around,
And moonlit nights his shadow throw darkly
, on the ground.
Green tides that flood the coral he sees not
from his beam,
Nor fears the swift shark’s hunger, nor
hears the sea-tern’s scream:
White skulls of them he tempted, he and his
coward band,
By prying winds uncovered, will greet him
from the sand,
In ribald recognition; but they who suffered
The'victims of his madness, will gibe and
mock him more.
High o’er his humbled rascals, and high above
his slain,
They swung Jerome Cornells, that maid nor
wife again
Might yield her body to him, nor wine his
wits inspire .
To ravish fruits forbidden in Gardens ot
Desire *
Who strutted in brief splendor and wrote
with ruffians vile ,
A page of blood-stained story on Houtman s
lonely isle.
They left him there to wither, a thing
accurst, obscene,
To haunt the low Abrolhos with memories
unclean,
The sport of wind and weather beneath a
changing sky,
A bleak, uncanny beacon ; but no great ships
went by,
And no man came with curses, and no maid
crept in tears
To learn how fared Cornelis in once a
hundred years.
Now in the Laerdam’s cabin, with pipe and
flagon near, .
Our vision falls on Pelsart, aloof, contained,
severe;
His fair Dutch beard he fondles; avenging
duty done,
He heads his high ship nor’ward with gold
and goods re-won,
To tell in far Batavia among liis peers anon
His tale of blood and pillage—three cen-
turies agone.
* * * *
Still in the late October from Geraldton
one may ,
Sail to the low Abrolhos on any sunny day
Where swung they lean Cornelis upon a
gibbet tall , „ „, . .
In that or Hell or Devil he fearbd not at all,
But lured by lust unseemly of young Frau
Tantz, the fair,
Did plot and slay and plunder m roguish
manner there.
This rascal out of Haarlem, God knows,
deserved to die,
As would (His angels guard us!) m such
Yea, C high and rightly facing the slowly-
He makes* a%ombre figure, my stolid Dutch
mynheers;
Grim warning to the wicked, beneath the
western sky
Te left him on our coastline, three hundred
years gone by.
VICTOKIA.
E.J. BRADY.
Alas for Me!
Again the rattling brook. Dear God,
How long it seems since we, in love,
Drove dryads everywhere we trod,
And took from sun-top height the glove
Some hot-moustachioed goblin dropped :
So pale, so jmessed, so jimp, so flat,
Small wonder then if when he stopped
It slipped the headband of his hat.
And you showed rapture where his glaive
Sliced the rathe rushes, through their
stalks,
A hair’s-breadth off the silver pave
Of Hodman Snail, whose country walks
Shine i’ the dark; so he may see
(Though lone and lanternless, Pardie!)
His homeward path.
Alas, for me,
It is not so. For never more,
By any sleight of hand or mind.
May I again your heart explore....
O hard and stony way, and sore!
O way too difficult to find !
N.S.W.
HUGH McCRAE.
Ghosts.
w
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


Holiday
Mishaps
€Skm
Au&tral''B3<afe
D ON’T fail to pack
a supply of
Zam-Buk, which is a
pure and ever-ready
first-aid. It stops
pain, prevents a
wound taking bad
ways and heals with
new healthy skin.
ZAM-BUK
OINTMENT & MEDICINAL SOAP
See Tasmania
Two delightful days on
board the luxurious 7000-
ton Zealandia bring you to
HOBART
Tasm a n i a’s beautiful
capital and ideal holiday
resort. Every day different
tours are arranged to the
rare sights, all within a
few hours’ drive from the
city. See Russell Falls,
New Norfolk, Po r t
Arthur, Eagle Hawk Neck
and relics of convict days.
Plenty of sport—fishing,
fruit, flowers, raspberries
and strawberries in riotous
profusion.
For your Summer holiday
make up your mind im-
mediately to consult the
Tasmanian Tourist Bureau,
Ocean House, 34 Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
%
'llllllii
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Quiet —Restful —Cool—Open to the Summer Sea Breezes. With Private Beach and Amphitheatre
Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service. Spacious Grounds and Garage
Accommodation.
Tariff from guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip ‘rorn City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: YSOI2 (4 lines).
On time-
all the time
"As regular as the Town
clock’’ was a phrase
often used to describe a
punctual man. But the
Town clock isn’t always
a criterion, and "regular"
has become a courtesy
title. Men to whom
time is of primary
import now rely on a
"Cyma" watch—in the
safe knowledge that the
most meticulously
punctual cannot be more
punctual than their
"Cyma.”
*W2!«i
SlC'
m
m
m
a
acß<'
m
m
l&fl
HMfe
I 111
U!>]m
mm
««
G.P.0.,
Adelaide, S.A.
A "Cyma” watch is essentially the watch
of the man of affairs, to whom precision
and appearance are equally important.
From a utilitarian viewpoint, a “Cyma”
merits first consideration, because all
“Cyma” parts are interchangeable, and
repairs can be affected in case of accident
in the minimum time by any good jeweller.
w
Q&mmis
CYMA
ŵ
WATCH E S
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Publication.
“J7AGLEIIAWK,” the cheapest book ever
■ L “ l ' published on the ceremonies and cus-
toms of the Australian Natives. All Book-
sellers and Newsagents, 3d. per copy; 4d.
posted. Obtainable direct, 398 Raw r son
Chambers, Rawson Place, Sydney.
Public Notices.
NOTICE
Returns of Insurance Premiums required
from persons, etc., insuring with any
Insurance Company not registered in
New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act 1909-27.
ALL persons, firms, companies and associa-
tions being owners, trustees or agents for
any goods or property within the Sydney
Fire District, and every other Fire District
in the State of Now South Wales to which
the Fire Brigades Act 1909-27 has been
applied, in respect of which premiums are
paid to an insurance company not registered
in the State, are hereby notified that they
are required to send to the Board of Fire
Commissioners of New South Wales returns
showing the amount of such premiums paid
by them in respect of the said property to
such insurance companies during the year
1929.
The time appointed for receipt of the
returns is on or before the 31st January,
1930, subject to a penalty not exceeding £1
per day for every day of default.
Note. —Returns are required only of the
proportion of the premiums properly charge-
able in respect of the Fire Risk during the
time such property was in any Fire District
under the said Act.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales,
H. M. WEBB,
Secretary.
213 Castlereagli Street, Sydney,
29th November, 1929.
NOTICE.
Return of Insurance Premiums required
from Insurance Companies.
Pursuant lo the Fire Brigades Act 1909-27.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by
the above Act, are hereby notified that
they are required to send to the Board ot'
Fire Commissioners of New South Wales
returns showing the total amount of the
premiums received by or due to such com-
panies in respect of risks against fire during
the year ending 31st December, 1929, within
the Sydney Fire District and every other
Fire District in the State of New South
Wales to which the Fire Brigades Act
1909-27 applies, less any part of such
premiums actually paid by way of rein-
surance to any other insurance companies
contributing under the said Act.
The time appointed for receipt of the
returns is on or before the 31st January,
1930, subject to a penalty not exceeding
Five pounds for every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required
returns may be obtained from the under-
signed.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
29th November, 1929.
?/S§s:
O’ <
°~j-§ i ■§■s
co ; - o f,
BSS
V
|KJKi
[«sd3
£Qu
fRS-J>
<*-
5v
s
>n.
*v
SIMONI*
5s . D°u co rjA
Qjhc Ideal Xma?
Onoioruuj (jift-“
Appreciated by every motorist no matter what
make, year or model car he drives. THIS
BEAUTIFUL CHRISTMAS SIMONIZ SET
CONTAINS EVERYTHING NEEDED TO
MAKE ANY CAR BRIGHT AND NEW. Com-
plete with two Simoniz and Kleener cloths and
instructions.
Simoniz Christmas Set, 5/6
AT EVERY GOOD MOTOR HOUSE IN AUS-
TRALIA. Note: These sets are packed in a
cardboard box and wrapped in an attractive
colored Christmas carton. All you do is to
write your name and his on this ideal Christ-
mas Motoring Gift. If unobtainable locally,
send postal-note for 5/6 to Sole Australian
Distributors, MOTORITE EQUIPMENTS PTY.,
LTD., 188-196 Peel Street, North Melbourne,
Vic. Free sample Simoniz Outfit post free, if
you wish to test it.
“SIMONIZ'


\W\\\
Foods
for your Xmas Trip
REX Red-y-Mele
As the name implies, this is A READY MEAE of choice beef and
vegetables. Heat the lib can thoroughly in boiling water, and you
have a delicious dinner. For a large number of persons the best
way is to turn out the contents of the required number of cans into a
pot. In no time there is ready a savoury meal.
REX-PYE
lib and |lb cans.
There is an enormous sale throughout Australia for REX-PYE —and
no wonder ! It is all choicest meat surrounded by clear jelly. The
aroma and flavour are delicious. It is essentially a cold dish for
lunch, and you can cut it into slices for wholesome tasty meat
sandwiches. It is also fine served hot.
REX K-be-B
A delicious dish of kidneys, beans and bacon, in lib and |lb cans.
SAUSAGES
REX Lorraine Smoked Sausages, in lib and cans.
REX Pork Sausages, in lib and |lb cans.
REX Beef Sausages, in lib cans only.
CHOICE SOUPS
lib and fib cans.
REX Consomme Soup REX Mulligatawny Soup
REX Pea Soup REX Vegetable Soup REX Ox Tail Soup
OTHER DELICACIES
REX Pork and Beans in Tomato Sauce
REX Baked Beans in Tomato Sauce
REX Devilled Kidneys
REX Euncheon Cheese in tins and jars
REX Fry and Bacon
REX Pig Feet
REX Pork Brawn
REX Ham Pate
and Ihe other famous
REX Sandwich Delicacies.
REX BUTTER
REX DRIPPING
Specially ask your grocer for
lever lid tins. These keep your
butter and dripping fresh and
choice throughout the trip.
ẁ
YOUR XMAS HAM
Let it be Rex and you are sure
of a mild, sweet, delicious bam.
A Rex ham-cured shoulder is
very choice too. And do not
forget Rex mild-cured bacon.
Order now.
ITT JONES PTV. LTD.
(Division of United Provisions Lhd.)


Victoria Means Variety
The stupendous panoramas of
BUFFALO and the placid, rippling
beauty of the GIPPSLAND LAKES—
The sandstone crags and peaks of the
GRAMPIANS and- the sweet-smelling
charm of HEALESVILLE—
The thunder of surf along yictoria’s
gold and azure coastline, and the clean,
fresh winds, across the BOGONG
high plains.
ALL THESE AND A HUNDRED
AND ONE OTHER VARIED
DELIGHTS VICTORIA OFFERS
THE TOURIST.
©7>c
government tourist bureau
Queen’s Walk, Melbourne,
Martin Place, Sydney,
will help you to make your choice.
WHAT DOES SPENDING COST?
How much does it cost you to spend £100? The answer is
£l 00 down and at least £4 per annum for the rest of your life.
Yet what man would knowingly spend £lOO that put him
under obligation to pay £4 per year for life.
None, perhaps, but many do it unconsciously when they spend
money that might otherwise have earned interest at 4 per
cent, indefinitely.
Every pound you spend has attached to it an invisible string
of pennies which you spend with it.
Keep your money in a Savings Account and earn, not spend,
4 per cent, interest per annum.
Cbmmonwealtl) Savings JBank of Hustralia
{Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
A Perfect gloss
ẃ
FIRST
SOLD
I 792
A GLOSSY, healthy-
** looking head of hair
can be yours—it’s no
secret; just comb a little
Rowland’s Macassar Oil
thoroughly into the hair
twice a day. It feeds your
hair and prevents weak-
ness and falling out.
Of all Chemists,
Stores and Hair-
dressers. lied for
dark hair; golden
for fair or grey
hair.
anas
Macassar OH
Anna.
NORMAN S. MORRELL'S
STIRRING STORY OF AN ISLAND LOVE
TRAGEDY.
r T" , HE sun beamed down fiercely on the
white, tightly-packed beach of coral
sand on which the waves of yester-
day’s storm still hissed and thudded, though
with diminishing force. The man who lay
a few feet beyond the water-edge groaned,
and at the sound a grave-eyed sea-bird which
had been standing with head cocked curi-
ously to one side examining this trove of the
sea before venturing nearer gave a fright-
ened squeak and made off \yith a skittering
flurry of wings and feet.
The man shivered and opened his eyes. He
was conscious first of all of the fact that
his mouth and throat were horribly dry and
parched, and he licked his lips with a tongue
which held no balm of easing moisture. He
looked about him curiously without moving
his body, his blue eyes, set in a cleanly-
shaven, sun-tanned face, straying from point
to point of the green wall of jungle at the
edge of the beach, twenty or thirty yards
distant; then his eyes filled with horror as tin;
poignant memory of the Lanai’s mad rush
before the gale obtruded upon his mind. It
all came back now. Two days of running
with bare sticks before the cyclone had taken
them hundreds of miles off their course.
Two days of wind and rain and grey skies—
two nights of blackness and rushing wind and
thundering sea —then the chaotic moment of
the great impact.
Regan passed his tongue across his lips
again and sat up stiffly. He felt himself
over gingerly. Apart from a few abrasions
on arms and legs, he appeared to be quite
all right. He grinned wryly as he surveyed
his clothing—a torn pyjama suit worn over
a pair of woollen underpants and a woollen
singlet. He had been called on deck, last
night when the storm wasi at its height, and
had come up with an oilskin over his pyja-
mas. The last memory he had of the old
Lanai was of an overwhelming surge of
dark waters carrying all before them as the
vessel struck, and of himself struggling to
discard the coat which was hampering his
freedom of movement. Then he was in the
sea and fighting for his life, dimly conscious
of the suck and thunder of the long-backed
combers among the rocks. He was whirled
here and there like a cork at the mercy of
the sea, all his strength and skill powerless
to fend off the doom which he felt was
imminent. A larger breaker roared down
upon him, carrying him helplessly to what he
considered must be certain death. But that
breaker had saved him, had miraculously
scraped him over the reef with the loss of a
few patches of skin, and hurtled on to leave
him swimming strongly on a slightly calmer
sea.
He had fought for an eternity, the savor
and the sweetness of life urging him to keep
on with the hopeless business of swimming
through the dark, wind-lashed seas, the fight-
ing spirit refusing to allow him to let go
of life until all life had been drained from
his straining body. He was swimming, but
for all he knew there was nothing but the
dark and empty sea ahead of him for hun-
dreds of miles, and old Davy Jones waiting
with open arms to receive him when he could
struggle no more against his fate!
In his own way Regan had made his peace
with his Maker then, recalling the ancient
faith he had learned in his boyhood days at
Sydney, and which he had let slip in the
careless fashion of strong manhood —forgot-
ten more than ever since he had joined the
Lanai and her godless crew of labor recruit-
ers. He was done, had given up hope of
life and plumbed the uttermost depths of
exhaustion, when he felt a shelving bottom
beneath his feet and became aware of the
thud of heavy seas on a windward beach.
Buffeted and bleeding, he had dragged him-
self clear of the sucking waves, which seemed
insistent on preventing him from gaining the
haven of safety to which they had borne
him; then he had fallen forward on his
face, every fibre of him surrendering to the
black coma of total exhaustion.
So he was here in the sunlight on a sea-
washed beach—safe ! He got unsteadily to
his feet, swaying uncertainly from side to
side like a drunken man. He wondered dully
if he was the only survivor. His eyes
wandered across the restless sea, steadying
at length on the low, wave-swept reef two
miles or more from the shore. That must
be the reef which had split the Lanai, but
there was no slightest sign of the schooner
now. Only a few boards drifted idly among
the booming breakers near the beach, and
some distance out something that looked like
a barrel or a water-cask bobbed and turned
wetly under the sunlight.
He gave his attention then to the island.
It was, like many of the specks of land
which pinpointed the chart of the broad
Pacific, an atoll —a ring of flat and verdant
earth on a coralline foundation ; dimly visible
through spaces in the intervening wall of
jungle, the sunlight glistened on the still
waters of the inner lagoon.
lie became conscious again of dominating
thirst, and walked uncertainly across the
beach towards the palm-fringed stretch of
exotic verdure. He found a green nut
wrenched from its parent palm by the hurri-
cane, and opened it, draining the milky con-
tents gratefully. He felt better for the
drink, and after a while began to walk along
the beach, intent on discovering whether or
not he was to be a modern Robinson Crusoe,
with the atoll to himself.
He was a giant of a man, sporting a mop
of stiff red hair of a hue as brilliant as
that of the sky at sunset on a. day of storm,
and he carried his broad shoulders with the
air of one sure of himself in the face of his
fellow men—the swagger of the two-fisted
fighting man the world over. Struck by a
sudden disquieting thought, he slipped his
hand down the neck of his singlet. Yes,
the locket he always carried on a silver
chain about his neck was still in place in
spite of all the buffeting its owner had
endured. He was glad, for, calloused though
his finer sensibilities were since he had come
to the Islands, that locket was a link with
home —with Sydney and all the fine, sweet
memories.of youth. His mother had given
him the trinket, and inside tne ngnr-ntting
lid reposed two things of value—a tiny
photograph of his own head and a small silver
crucifix from his mother’s rosary beads.
Religion had passed ttegau ny as a youth,
so far as its inner meaning was concerned;
it had passed into the limbo of the unruought
of and forgotten since the Pacific had claimed
him as one of her brood of wandering sons.
Yet he valued that tiny silver box more than
he would have admitted to any of his fellows.
He passed on down the beach, rounded a
spit of jungle which freakishly encroached
almost to the water line, arid came upon
Otakeaho, fairest of all the maidens of
Lakala. She had been swimming in the
sea, and sat now upon the warm sand dry-
ing the shining strands of her waist-long
hair. Her brown body was as innocent of
clothing as that of a babe, and she was as
innocent and unashamed.
Regan’s advent startled her, and she
sprang to her feet with a sharp cry of
astonishment. She retreated to a safe dis-
tance before turning to face him, her breasts
heaving, and her eyes, clear and limpid as
those of a curious wild thing, taking in
every detail of his bedraggled yet commanding
g surs
Regan turned the palms of his hands
towards her, making the universal peace-sign
of the Islands, and at the gesture Otakeaho’s
full lips curved into a smile of understand-
in £-
She had seen white men before, but never
a white man like Regan. Her curiosity was
piqued by his hair, and after watching him
for a moment she came near with, the
simple faith of a child and laid her soft
brown hands upon it to see if it was real.
She spoke rapidly in some musical language
which Regan could not understand, and lie
replied in “pidgin,” explaining laboriously
his presence. The girl listened until he had
done, but it was obvious that she was
puzzled. He tried her with the language of
signs, and, after much pantomimic business
that would have been amusing in other cir-
cumstances, saw the light of comprehension
gleam in her big eyes. She stopped only long
enough to assume the plaited grass kirtle
which she had discarded for her swim ; then
she took him by the hand and led him along
the beach as one would lead a child.
And so Philip Regan came to the village.
He was received peacefully by the strapping
Lakala men, assigned a place in the simple
community, fed and given, a sleeping place.
From the first he had known that iris stay
on the island would probably be a long one.
It lay far from the usual haunt of the
copra schooners or recruiting vessels, an
isolated island in a sea which held little
profit for white men's enterprise. The popu-
lation was only two or three hundred all
told, and Regan slipped into the routine of
the simple, lazy life from the first.
The days went by unnoticed and almost
unregretted, while life went lilting past like
a gay song of love and laughter. And quite
naturally, as such things happen among
unsophisticated folk, Regan made love to
Otakeaho, and later took her to wife in the.
easy though binding manner of the tribe.
Yet Philip Regan was a white man, and
restless; it was not in him to yield himself
unreservedly to the languorous spell of Lak-
ala and the glamorous charms of Otakeaho’s
arms. He found himself thinking more and
more of the white lights and the crowded
streets of civilisation, and of the tang and
chatter of drinking bars he had known where
men of his own kind and color congregated
in hearty fellowship. Life on Lakala was
too sweet, too easy—warm, happy days under
a tropic sun and warm scented nights under
the blazing stars—-too easy! 'Yet no ship
came to Lakala though the weeks became
months and the months became a year.
For a while bis restless longings were
quieted by the advent of his child—his and
Otakeaho’s, a baby girl whom Regan called
Anna, a sweet and simple name that Otake-
aho repeated with delighted acceptance. There
were times when Regan, watching his golden-
skinned wife, lithe and clean-limbed and alto-
gether beautiful, ministering to the child in
the old, old fashion of motherhood, vowed
that he would never leave Lakala, and cursed
himself for a discontented fool for ever hav-
ing considered doing so. But always the old
longing returned, try to down it as he would.
When Anna was nearly one year old a
schooner came reeling up over the wide and
empty horizon to the south, its presence
crystallising all Regan’s uncertainty of mind
into one sure decision. He was going. He
would come back some day to Otakeaho and
Anna, but now he must go. He said it and
meMrt, it—he would come back ! And to
Otakeaho s lamentations and dry her
ae left with her a token ot his good
Diitli, slipping about the baby s neck before
,t! stepped into the. schooner s surf-boat the
i° c ket which contained a miniature of his
own head and the thin silver cross from his
m °ti lol s rosary,
* * * *
Regan slipped back into the old life among
the island schooners—the old life of liard-
living, hard-fighting and hard-drinking, as
though he had never been away. He had been
born too late, had red-haired Regan; lie
should have been a buccaneer, dominating a
cut-throat crew by the power of sheer nerve
and ruthlessness. The years drifted by, and
Lakala became a memory—a clean memory
of happiness unique in all his experience,
The island was always just over the horizon,
a place to be desired and to be returned to
some day when he had made his pile. But
it was a fading memory; like the thought
of some immeasurably dear dream, pushed
into the background of conscious thought b.y
the crowding problems of everyday life.
He was in Sydney when war came, and
because he was "Ginger” Regan he was one
of the first to enlist. Before the red mael-
strom of war flung him aside again, set him
back in Sydney minus an arm and with his
flaming hair turned a dirty grev, Lakala had
faded altogether—Lakala and Otakeaho and
the silver locket he had hung about the neck
of the baby girl he had called Anna.
Sixteen years! And every year had taken
something from Regan, had helped to drain
the boyishness from his soul; had helped to
place there the cynical, don’t-care outlook
which dominated him when next he sailed as
master of the schooner Lowrie; had made
him a man of mad impulse over-fond of the
comfort of the rum bottle
That sixteen years had brought changes on
Lakala, too. The first change had been the
landing and establishment of Father Jean
Varley and an aged sister of the French
Gregorian Mission. And the next the death
of Otakeaho, the mother of six-year-old Anna.
Always Otakeaho had clung to her faith that
Regan would return, and she died with that
simple trust still unbroken by the empty
years, passing on to the wide-eyed child the
story of her birth and the silver chain and
locket which were liers by right. With
Otakeaho dead, Pere Jean had claimed Anna,
given her in charge of the old sister to be
mothered and nourished by the Church.
Pere Jean was a man who had seen much
of life, a man of broad and kindly vision,
and under his watchful eye Anna grew to
fair young womanhood, learned to read and
write, learned the significance of the silver
crucifix inside the locket she always wore.
Pere Jean encouraged her to believe that she
was more white than brown, and interfered
not at all with her dream of a white father
with a head of flaming red hair who would
one day come on a white man’s ship to take
her away from Lakala.
And, indeed, Anna was different from the
other island girls, inwardly if not outwardly.
Sue was different in that she took part m
none of the simple love affairs freely indulged
by the other maidens—made different by the
prayers of Pere Jean and that proud some-
thing in the soul of her that told her she
was more white than brown. Of every ship
that came to Lakala, few enough in all con-
science, she made diligent inquiries for her
father, though naturally enough, since she
did not know his name and had only a hazy
idea of his appearance, without success.
When she was seventeen a new schooner
came to Lakala. A boat was pulled ashore
and she saw Pere Jean in converse with the
brown men who landed. He was frowning
when he returned to the mission and met
her questions with the strict injunction that
she was not to venture near the vessel.
But Anna was a woman, with all a
woman’s hope and curiosity, and Pere Jean’s
ban only made- her the more eager to go
aboard. All through the remainder of the
afternoon she watched the strange schooner
as it swung at its anchorage off the village.
She saw canoe loads of villagers go aboard,
and later, when the moon climbed up over
the sea and hung in the cloudless sky like
a monstrous glowing flower, she saw some
of them come back to shore, laughing and
shouting as though that dingy-white vessel
had been a jest they had greatly enjoyed.
The night wore on, and dimly across the
water came the sounds of revelry, the high-
pitched laugh of a woman and the hoarse
shouting of someone bellowing an island
song the words of which she did not under-
stand. In Anna's mind one thought burned :
was her father on board? Was that why
Pere Jean had forbidden her to go near the
vessel —because her father had come for her
and Pere Jean did not wish her to go?
Pere Jean was asleep by now, and surely
there could be no harm in her asking a few
questions for herself. She hesitated awhile,
then inevitably she yielded to her wild long-
ing to seek this father she had heard of.
but did not remember. She slipped silently
from the mission house, threaded her way
like a white wraith among the palm-trees
and came out on the moonlit beach opposite
the schooner’s anchorage.
Half a dozen canoes were drawn up just
above high-tide mark and she launched one
of the lightest and began to paddle effort-
lessly towards the dim lights of the schooner.
She paused once to look back towards the
wdiite painted mission house with its tiny
church, and as she did so something long
and glowing swept around the canoe, leaving
behind it a trail of phosphorescent bubbles.
She shuddered and urged her canoe onward,
but the shark came near her no more.
A minute later she climbed over the low
rail on to the schooner’s deck. Seven or
eight men, none of them Lakala boys, were
grouped about, watching with gleaming eyes
the dance being performed by a number of
the village girls. There was no white man
in sight.
For a moment she watched unseen, half-
frightened by the utter abandon of the dance
—wilder and more sensuous than any she
had seen performed on shore. Then one of
the men saw her. He dragged her forward
to the others, shouting and laughing as
(Continued on page 57.)
“THE BULLETIN” £2000 NOVEL
COMPETITIONS.
The second of “The Bulletin” Novel Competitions will close on
the 3 1 st inst.
Prizes: First, £400; second, £250; third, £lOO.
The prize stories will remain the property of the writers; but The
Bulletin Newspaper Co. reserves the right to first publish them
serially.
The judging of the stories submitted will be proceeded with
immediately the competition closes; and it is expected that the
awards will be made by March 3 1.
Further particulars can be had from the Head Office of “The
Bulletin,” 21 4 George Street, Sydney, or from any of the branch
offices throughout Australia.


Ranking, Public Companies, etc,
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares . . . . . . 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 703,125
Ordinary Shares . . . . . . 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS lU’Ttiill
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
£1,000,000
Fire Insurances 1
Marine Risks
I effected on all classes of
■Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
AUL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the Bkitisii Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
%
w
ŵ
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & lIUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.),
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
Übe
New Zealand's
National Morning Daily.
Published In Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com*
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion” is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know
Shipping, etc.
a
Summer
Voyage to
Honolulu
m
u.
m
m
m
s'
WHETHER on board the liner
en route for Honolulu or holi-
daying on the Sunny South
Sea Isle, your enjoyment is assured.
For Hawaii is a world-famous
holiday resort, whilst the vessels
engaged in this tour the Niagara
and Aorangi are imposingly large,
wide-decked and splendidly fitted for
pleasure.
Return Excursion Tour via Auck-
land and Suva:—
£75 First Saloon; £55 Second.
Departures:
JANUARY 9 FEBRUARY 6
Union Steam Ship Co.,
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne, C.l.
AUSTRALASIAN
&
W\
m
M-
' *. L
’•' ' *8
a®*
-*H V ' ’• ' :i
■l*’
BURNS-PHILP
TOURS
JAVA
(The Wonderland
of the East).
OLD BUDDHISTIC AND lIINDUISTIC TEMPLES —
NATIVE BAZAARS. EXCELLENT BIG-GAME SHOOTING.
BEAUTIFUL TROPICAL SCENERY.
EXTENSIVE TEA GARDENS. INTERESTING PEOPLE.
Regular monthly sailings by the favorite vessels
“MARELLA” (7500 tons) and “MALABAR” (5000 tons).
The Beautiful Solomons
Full of interest and romance and
situated only seven days’ steaming n.-e.
of Sydney. The comfortable and
popular S.S. MATARAM sails from
Sydney on December 21, and February
5, visiting 30 picturesque Ports.
ROUND TRIP 4£ WEEKS.
FARE £4l
Write for Pamphlet No. 52jS to
BURNS, PHILP AND
COMPANY, LTD.,
7 Bridge Street,
A L Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1811
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
ẁ
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929, £90,806,297.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
588 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Queensland’s Largest
Home-Read Daily
Newspaper——
6 ’he
“BRISBANE COURIER”
Unequalled in circulation the “Brisbane Courier gives to
advertisers the most effective coverage in City, Suburbs and
Country. ..... .
Tested campaigns have proved the Courier to yield 7 5 per
cent, of returns.
Carries more advertising than two other Brisbane dailies
combined.
FIRST IN CIRCULATION, COVERAGE, ADVERTISING
AND INFLUENCE.
Published by the Brisbane Newspaper Co., Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Rep.: Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85007.
Shipping, etc.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Ascanius . . 10,048 tons, Dec. 24.
tEuripides . . 15,000 „ Jan. 28
*Nestor . . 15,000 „ Feb. 17
fßunic . . 12,500 ~ Feb. 25
11,500 ~ Mar. 15.
*First class only. f“Cabin” class only.
{First and third class.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt § Sanderson, Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Joint
Agents
Splendid Cheap Service
Via Suez Canal.
FAST OIL BURNERS
Fares to London from £3B.
To Colombo from £22.
Special Excursion Return Tickets to
Colombo issued from Sept, to Feb., £32-
P. 8 0. BRANCH SERVICE
SPACIOUS DECKS—DECK CABINS—EXCELLENT
MENU —CINEMA —DANCE MUSIC REPRODUCED
WITH ELECTRIC AMPLIFIERS—
CANVAS SWIMMING BATH
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 86701
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday eveniag;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Seta
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/6/-
Steamer and Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart ParkerL l^
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamship
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDAHT PARKER LIMIT:!
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridg e Street, Sydney.
Wo luggage worries
when gou travel with
CANADIAN PACIFIC
i m
i\
i
Passengers’ luggage forwarded
to any point in Canada or U.S.
by C.P.R. agents. Don’t carry
luggage —merely give directions.
C.P.R. transfers all luggage to
steamer, hotel, or train as de-
sired. An efficient system to
take inconvenience and annoy-
ance out of travel.
To enjoy travel —forget luggage
worry—book C.P.R. all the way.
Write for beautifully illustrated
literature.
CANADIAN PACIFIC,
247 George Street, Sydney.
a -Wrf';
CANADIAN PACIFIC
TRAINS • STEAMERS • HOTELS
The Worlds'greatest travelsystem^
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who
quote you price for tifie original.


1
«
a'SuK*?
I<lC T
man
m c .
mA
»J3c l
V vmS
Jade with
Rolled Gold
Bands
80/-
4>«> V
5.F.230 C
Black or
Mottled
(with clip)
27/6
£36' ".fl
| Lest this should be your
regret, decide now to give
! ‘Swan’ Pens this Christmas.
There is a pleasing range of
models to suit every taste
and the * Swan/ in delight-
ful colours, either singly, or
with a ‘ Fyne-Poynt ’ Pencil
as a gift set, makes a charm-
ing present for either a lady
or gentleman.
COLOURED “SWANS” from 22/6
MOTHER SELF-FILLING 'SWANS” from 17/6
Black or Mottled).
“Fyne-Poynt” Pencils from 7/6
Self-Filling “ Blackbird ” Pens from 9/.
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
I L N
PEN
Illustrated Catalogue post free
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
Swan House, London, W.i.
Factories: London and Liverpool
Managing Agents and Repair Serv ce Depot:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, Ltd.,
181, Clarence Street, Sydney.
8 lift
*&g
a |t I
FOR
SWAN*
PENS
LOlOimj
H (A.)
Hand finished to
A
i ■' 1
ensure perfection
The finishing touches given to every
Kropp Razor before it is sent out from the
works are an essential part of the opera-
tions to produce this perfect instrument.
The Kropp Razor is entirely British and is
the product of skilled Sheffield craftsmen.
w
c lhe
ALL-BRITISH
KPA
llllw
never requires grinding
Black, Ivory or Xylonite handles. From the usua’ dealers.
AVOID SUBSTITUTES: Every genuine Kropp
stamped “Made and ground in Sheffield, England."
Wholesale only: OSBORNE GARRETT & CO., LTD., London, England.
though he had won some rare prize. In a
moment she was the centre of a knot of gesti-
culating boys. One of them waved a bottle
invitingly, and when she shrank away pressed
it into her hands roughly. The girls, deprived
of their audience, stopped the dance and
gathered about, laughing at her discomfiture.
One of the boys, he who had offered his
bottle so freely, put his arms about her and
pressed her towards him roughly, his wild
eyes staring boldly into her own, the rum-
laden odor of his hot breath against her
cheek.
Anna knew a moment of womanly horror;
then she screamed and broke away. As she
did so the seaman grabbed at her neck.
Something caught for a moment; but without
a sound it gave way, and she was free.
She ran quickly to the rail; then suddenly
she noticed that she was unpursued. A
white man stood amongst the boys, a stooped
giant of a man dressed in a suit of incredibly
dirty duck. He stood swaying unsteadily;
then he came closer, his eyes fixed upon her.
Anna searched his face eagerly. No, this
was surely not her father —this huge, stooped
man with the dirty, unshaven jowl and
yellowy-grey hair matted about his head. He
looked her up and down, his bleared eyes
taking in greedily the soft loveliness of her
golden brown ligure and the delicate oval
of her flushed face. He reached out a
hand towards her and said something thickly.
She looked at him dumbly and made no
move. The man cursed angrily; his hand
closed about her arm in a grip she could
not break, and he dragged her towards the
companionway.
For a moment the group on deck stood
motionless; then as man and girl dis-
appeared they drew closer, the boys sullen
and silent, the girls speaking amongst them-
selves in low, frightened whispers.
From below came the sound of violent
upheaval—the crash of an overturned chair,
a man’s savage curses and the sound of
blows. A moment of silence, then a man’s
voice rose in a bellow of rage and command.
Before the boys could spring to the com-
panionway the slim figure of the girl burst
on to deck again. She sprang to the rigging,
took a quick run upwards and stood there,
looking upon them all with blazing eyes.
The white man came lumbering in pursuit.
He stopped and cursed as he saw Anna,
poised like some exquisitely-wrought figure
of flight above his head; then he yelled a
savage 'order. Two of the sailors sprang to
the rigging, and at their coming the girl
went higher, climbing with a sureness and
speed which outrivallcd even the catlike
agility of the brown seamen.
But the tallest mast has its end, and soon
Anna could go no further. She stood for a
moment, limned against the moon ; then as
the foremost boy dragged at her ankle she
steadied herself and plunged, feet first, into
the sea.
She rose quickly, and began the quarter-
mile swim towards the beach. The white
man, standing with the others at the rail,
cursed foully. He was in the act of turn-
ing away, inspired by some urgent purpose
known to himself alone, when a frightened-
cry drew him back. Something long and
glowing was cleaving the water, closing on
the swimming girl. He gripped tne rail
with his one hand until the knuckles showed
white through the skin; then as he heard
her cry of horror he laughed horribly in
his throat, the drunken whimsy of him
making him see something grimly humorous
where the others could find nothing but
starkest tragedy.
He remained for a moment or two staring
over the calm and empty sea between the
schooner and the beach, then turned to go
below.
One of the boys touched his arm timidly.
He held something in his outstretched palm.
“That girl she lose, master. Look!”
With drunken gravity lie took the silver
locket with its length of broken chain, and
went below without a word or a glance for
anyone on deck.
He flung the locket on the table and
turned eagerly to the rum bottle. It was
halfway to liis lips when he glanced at the
trinket again. Some memory was crawling
at the back of his drink-sodden brain. That
locket—where had he seen it before V
He put the bottle down carefully, and
took the locket to where it caught the full
glow of the hanging lamp. The little silver
box was worn thin by years of usage, but
Hie graven letters “P.R.” were still plain
He stared at them for a second or two, his
eyes suddenly sober, and afraid ; then, with
an abrupt gesture, he snatched up a knife
and awkwardly prized the locket open.
Something tinkled on to the floor as the
cateli gave and he retrieved it wordlessly.
He stared at the thin silver crucifix before
laying it on the table in front of him.
He slumped into a chair, the opened locket
held close to his face. The eyes of a young
man, curiously lifelike in the pictured
countenance, were staring into his own —
clean eyes, audaciously challenging the world
with the bold arrogance of youth. His own
eyes—twenty years before !
And that girl whom he had just sent to
her death? She would be his daughter—the
girl he had called Anna, and promised to
call for some day.
He rose and walked heavily to the spotted
mirror which hung from a hook above his
bunk. He stood before it for a few minutes,
the light from the hanging lamp striking
over, one shoulder, cruelly accentuating every
detail of the face of Philip Regan; showing
the lines of dissipation and weakness about
the nose and mouth, the matted, unkempt
hair and the bleared eyes from which rum
had stolen all the fire and cleanliness ot
manhood.
He turned away with a gasping intake of
breath, as though he had looked upon the
face of death.
Of a sudden he was assailed with memories
of the two years he had spent at Lakala,
that fair Lakala on which life liad gone as
sweetly as a dream, that Lakala to which
his fate had drawn him back through tin-
haze of drunken stupor which had held him
chained for the past month, so that he knew
not. and cared not, where lie took his shin
He sat before the table again and carefully !
propped the open locket and silver crucifix
against the half-emptied rum-bottle. H
slid the table-drawer open quietly and groped
for the revolver he knew was there.
The last thing he saw as he fell forward
were the proud eyes of a boy staring back
into his own, defiantly, challengingly,
unforgivingly.
Ma’m’selle.
HORTON BROOKS
TELLS OF A STRANGE DISCOVERY MADE BY
SOME FIELD-GUN DIGGERS IN FRANCE, AND THE EXTRAORDINARY
CONSEQUENCES.
HOW about takin’ a run over and
havin’ a squiz at the joint?”
That was just what I had been
flunking', too. For the last half-hour most
of the detachment had been sprawling on
the grass outside the gun-pit, enjoying what
remained of the afternoon sunlight; and
during the greater part of the time, I now
realised, I had been gazing across at a
farmhouse lying some distance off on the
opposite side of the road.
The house had held for us a certain attrac-
tion ; but, so far, no one had ventured to
the spot owing to the extent of the shelling
there. It was a curious fact, and really
responsible for the place’s attraction.
Although the ground in the immediate neigh-
borhood of the building was literally a
honeycomb of shell-holes, the farmhouse itself
appeared to be almost untouched. Obviously,
lrom the attention they paid the locality, the
Huns held the mistaken belief that some-
where there a battery was concealed. There
had been no .shelling this afternoon; but
one never knew what moment tlieir guns
would open up.
‘Right-oh, Andy! Things seem pretty
quiet all round, don’t they?”
Taking my cue from Andy Collins, I
scrambled, not without some uncertainty, to
iny feet.
W hat d’yer think yer up to? Don’t a
man run enough risks as it is?”
I wheeled round. Joe James. He had
been sitting apart, and I had scarcely taken
him into my consciousness.
Just like Joe—interfering Joe! Because
lie wasmlder—so very much older—than any
of us, he always thought he could rule the
roost. Surly, unpopular Joe ! As I stared
back at him I forgot for the moment that
be was a comrade, and thought of him as
1 had known him in civilian days. We had
come from the same district; and, well, every-
one there had looked upon Joe as a thorough,
slacker, periodically neglecting his wife and
kids. Oat of a job when the war had
broken out, he had imagined that the A.I.F.
would make a good “home”—and was for
ev er iamentmg l his mistake.
%’t yer know' the place’s got a hoodoo
on it. he went on. “Didn’t yer see those
two infantry coves get knocked over there las’
"before we woke up to them?”
Dome on! Don’t take any notice of
him!”
Al) / 1 -Y. 1 ' v ’ a ' s already on his way. Perceiving
r „ Hitility of any argument, I turned to
follow linn.
All i'igh’ then! Only don’t expect me
at us 1 " 0 t 0 f unera l •” I heard cast back
, was n °t long before we had reached
e spot. .Seen from close quarters, the house
L 'T;:!, l lave suffered more damage than
had *fall ° l - S lt: ’ I)ai ‘t the further side-wall
Except for that, drawing attention to
tins, Andy remarked, “the joint is about as
a Pbssie ns you could find hereabouts.
Why, anyone could have been living here all
the time !”
I looked at him sharply. Now, what had
made him say that? It was just what I had
been thinking, too.
The front door of the farmhouse lay partly
open. Not without a glance at each other
hi'st a glance which either of us, I expect,
would have found difficult to explain—we
entered, Andy taking the lead.
The door of the second room on the right
was open, and we made for this first. But
if we had expected to find anything of inter-
est and that, inexplicably but very cer-
tainly, we had—we were doomed to disap-
poHitmeut. For, beyond a few damaged pieces
ot furniture, the room held nothing at all.
And elsewhere on the ground floor, at least,
ff 4 ' vas the same, presently we found.
“Well, a man don’t want to stay here too
long- but before pushin’ off let’s get an
eyeful of what’s up top.’’
Accepting Andy’s suggestion, I followed
him up the narrow, creaking stairway. A
growing sense of something impending seized
me ; up here we would find something.
We found ourselves in a large attic which,
obviously, had been used as a lumber-room.
Good Lord ! Look !”
Infected by Andy’s sudden excitement I
spun round and followed the direction of his
outstretched arm. There, in. a corner of the
room, I saw what had aroused his interest:
saw in the corner there, so unexpectedly
there, reclining against the wall, facing us
squarely, a feminine figure, a beautifully
rounded form! A figure which instantly
brought the picture of my eldest sister to
my mind ; a figure which my unbelieving eyes
had now definitely recognised to be none
other than —what did they call them?—yes.
a dressmaker’s dummy!
"Gawd! What d’yer make of that!” Grin-
ning hugely, Andy had seized hold of the
dummy, and, dusting it vigorously in the
process, was setting it in an upright position
on the floor.
. ogetlier we gazed at it in amusement —-
m , a g lusera ent mingled with admiration.
Stiuth, don t it bring it home to you!
A man sees these broken-down, deserted
houses every day of his life, an’ he never
stops to think , who off what the people who
lived m ’em were!”
Even as Andy spoke, my eyes had hit
upon something which up to the present had
escaped our notice. In the other corner I
had spied a wooden box. The lid of it was
closed, but just by the lock an uneven fringe
of dress material of some sort was protrud-
ing.
In no time we had reached the box. Thrust-
ing back the lid, we drew out a tangle of
discarded clothing.
(Continued on next page.)


15 Million Motor Cars
scattered throughout the world are now equipped with one of
the At fmttf Systems of Lubrication. All these cars are protected
against repair bills. 80% of all repairs on the moving parts of a
motor car come from one cause, namely lack of proper lubrication.
The ALEMITE Systems of Lu-
brication thoroughly lubricate
every vital chassis bearing. Old,
gritty, wornout grease is forced
out. Clear, clean, Alemite Lubri-
cant—a solidified oil—is forced
into the bearing under tremend-
ous pressure. Every bearing is
thoroughly cleaned and at the
same time lubricated.
ss
Throughout Australia there are Alemite
Service Stations. “ALEMITE-ING” every
500 miles will make your car run silently
and smoothly and it will be perfectly lubri-
cated at all times.
If there is no Alemite Service Station near
you we suggest you write to any of the addresses
given below and full information will be sent you
about “ALEMITE-ING ”
ALEMITE MANUFACTURING CORPORATION
Chicago
DIVISION OF STEWART-WARNER (J, S* A*
Full particulars from
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH
Resident Manager
250 Pitt Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
V
fi
Or from the following representatives:
Bennett & Wood, Ltd. . 284 Pitt St., Sydney
Motor Supplies, Ltd. . . • Brisbane
Atkins (W. A.), Ltd. . . 894 Hay Street, Perth
E. A. Machin & Co. Pty., Ltd,. 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
Cornell Limited, 122 Pirie St., Box G.P.0., 496 E. Adelaide
For the Dominion of New Zealand: Jas. J. Niven & Co., 152 Wakefield Street, Wellington, N. Z.
ALEMITE
HIGH PRESSURE LUBRICATION
“Hi-ti-iddly-i-ti! Get an eyeful of this!”
Andy had seized hold of some article of
clothing, I saw. I joined him in his grin,
and then, simultaneously, we turned towards
the dummy. The same idea had struck us
both.
“That’s it! We could dress her up pro-
perly ! This’ll be something to show the
boys !”
Equally enthusiastic, I straightway dived
into the jumble of clothing.
“A blouse, a skirt, a hat—we’re jake!” I
reported. “But seeing that she hasn’t got
a pair of legs”
The sudden screaming of a shell unpleas-
antly close overhead had cut me short. We
waited breathlessly for the explosion. But
none came: we heard now the indescribable
sound of a dud shell embedding itself into
soft earth.
“Come on ! At the toot!”
Despite his anxiety, Andy had evidently
decided not to abandon his find. So, before
setting out after him, I grabbed my selec-
tion of clothing.
We reached the ground floor without hav-
ing experienced any further cause for alarm.
The shell must have been a stray, we con-
cluded, as we reached the front doorway.
“Smacks of the good old days, don’t it?”
Andy grinned, with his arm around the waist
of his precious burden.
“The good old days—the days when knights
were bold!”
It certainly looked a case of abduction.
••!: * * *
Jerusalem! Things were going with a
swing! A real brain-wave of Andy’s, that
—to issue invitations to the rest of the bat-
tery to come and drink to the health of our
new mascot!
There was no doubt about it, Lofty Ren-
frew had been the proper man for the job.
A thoroughly artistic piece of work. Look
at her—why, you’d swear she was real! The
head —“give me time, and I’ll improve on
that,” Lofty had said; teased-out strands
from a drag-rope he had used for the hair ;
mighty effective, too —and look at the way
he had tilted the hat, look at the way he
had drawn in the blouse at the waist; the
sweep, too, of the skirt!
How the devil had they all crowded in!
Nearly the whole of the battery here, and
every man with his evening tot of rum.
Everyone grinning from ear to ear —except
old Joe, of course. He would try to spoil
everything! Couldn’t someone knock him
on the head? “Damned lot o’ nonsense, I
call it!” he had growled. “Wliat’re you
takin’ all this trouble for? You and your
Ma’m’selle!”
Ma’m’selle! As might have been expected,
there had been quite an argument over the
name. For a while it had looked as if
the Marie Louises would prevail. But,
finally, Andy had settled the argument. “See-
ing that we can’t agree, plain Ma’m’selle
will do her!” he had said.
“Pronienez avee moi, ma’m’selle?”
Nearly all the others had put that ques-
tion, too, but. none of them so convincingly
as Darky Jones. Look at him making up
to her —look at the dead seriousness of him !
He’d make a living on the boards. Darky!
“Here, cut that out, Darky! She’s mine,
I tell yer—she’s mine!”
Who was that? Ah, Tich Terry! All
keeping it up; everyone keeping it up—
except old Joe, sulking away in the corner
there. Well, let him sulk ! The show was
getting on very well without him. Everyone
talking at once!
Hullo? Sergeant Gordon moving forward
now. A fat. chance lie’s got of getting a
hearing above all this noise ! But, yes,
they’re beginning to take notice of him.
“Well, boys, get ready! Are you all set?
Here’s to No. 3 Gun’s mascot, then—here’s
to Ma’m’selle!”
Dixies up now. Dixies up!
“What —what about a s-o-ong?”
So it was Lofty who had made the sug-
gestion—Lofty still gasping from the effects
of his rum. A song—not a bad idea that!
How could it but choose itself?
“Mademoiselle from Armentieres, parlez-vous,
parlez”
That was the stuff to give ’em!
“Battery! Action!”
What! Surely—surely not! But no
kidstakes —from somewhere outside came the
sergeant-major’s voice. Dinkum, it teas a
command !
“Darn it all! This has gone and put the
kybosh on it!” someone was growling now.
Talk about confusion! All the others
struggling to get back to their guns! Well,
No. 3 gun wouldn’t be the last to report
“Ready !” this time !
* * * *
“Stand down!”
At last the order had come.
Lofty was the first to notice it.
“Look!” he grinned. “The concussion’s
knocked her off her perch ! Done a proper
faint! Just like a woman —just like a
woman!”
“Too late to carry on the show again.”
Carefully Andy was restoring Ma’m’selle to
her position, in the corner, by the ammuni-
tion-stack.
“I should damn well think so!” Growl-
ing again—old Joe !
A pity the show had broken up like this.
Only one thing to do now—turn in.
* * * *
A bit strenuous, but rather a decent stunt
that. A change from this eternal section
fire, that last burst of gun-fire!
Seems very dark in the pit to-night. That
patent curtain of Darky’s pulled down over
the embrasure makes a difference. A great
camouflage king, Darky!
Dark enough; but I don’t seem to be
able to settle down somehow. It’s not as
if a man wasn’t tired, either.
Queer; but the place doesn’t _ seem the
same somehow. After all that noise—that’s
what makes it feel like this. That’s it, of
course.... But no, that isn’t it! The place
seems—'here, what the devil’s wrong with the
place? The boys —why isn’t there the usual
exchange of “compliments” before settling
down for the night?
Must be some time now since we turned
in. All the rest are asleep by now. But
are they?
Hear other people thinking? In the dark,
too? What rot! Of course you can’t hear
other people thinking!.... But can’t you?
Ah ! someone stirring !
“Bon soir! Bon soir, Ma’m’selle!’’
Good Lord! Sergeant Gordon! The
sarge—it. was Sergeant Gordon who <1 \\ his-
pered that! But was itV
Yes, of course it was! But —but the
queer way lie said it! .
Well a week had passed, but it couldn t
be said that Mfa’m’selle had brought us much
luck! Leaning up against the outer wall of
the gun-pit, I polished away at my bandolier,
musing over this. .
Still, when it came to the point, wliat
sort of luck could one expect? A man
couldn’t very well win Tatt.’s out here.
At all events, Ma’m’selle hadn t brought
us any bad luck! We had suffered no casu-
alties. Things had gone on just the same.
But had they? Darky Jones, for instance.
He had shaved off that hideous walrus mous-
tache of his. Lofty Renfrew, too —so much
spruced up that you’d swear he was going
on Blighty leave! Good Lord, yes —it hadn t
struck me that way! Could it be that-;
Well, and now that I come to think of
it, why the devil was I polishing up my
bandolier?
Sitting so quietly there at the back of the
gun-pit, at first I had not noticed him.
Old Joe! Writing a letter! Old Joe
writing a letter! Old Joe !
What a look to give a man!
“What, Joe, making your will? Don t
expect me to come to the funeral, then.”
Even more hostile, that look in his eyes!
For the moment only, though.
What was that he was saying?
“Aw, no. Jus’ —jus' writin’ ’ome.
Writing home ! Old Joe !
Cautiously, from the cornet of my eye, 1
looked across at Ma’m’selle.
Bacchanal.
MINUET, andante cantabile.
Cornu and be drunk, brother! Come and
be drunk. . ,
This world for another! O come and be
drunk!
Four down the wine and our troubles are
sunk!
Come and be drunk, brother! Come and
be drunk!
Let the world frown, brother! Let the world
frown —•
We’ll live in another, so let the world frown!
We shall go up as the good wine "goes down —
Let the world frown, brother! Let the world
frown !
Then God will retrieve us
And nothing will grieve us,
His angels won’t leave us — not while WC
are drunk!
Pour down the wine, and our troubles are
sunk —
Come and be drunk, brother! Come and
be drunk!
And all shall be pure there,
No pain to endure there,
No tempter to lure there and no one to
frown.
We shall go up as the good wine goes
down.
Let the world frown, brother! Let the
world frown!
TRIO accelerando.
And Heaven and Hades shall mingle their
ladies’
White breasts softly gleaming througn
bodices riven; ,
And wine shall flow streaming through
dimming woods, splashing _ .
To shadowy pools where the joyous girls
swimming . ... .. ,
Shall thresh it to foam with swift limbs
cleanly flashing.
Entrancing white bosoms shall sway like
blown blossoms
Of girls round us ringing, abandonedly
dancing _ ,
To music of singing winds, sweeping tne
mountains
And vales of spring perfumes, now pausing,
now leaping .
To fondle the flowers and ruffle the fountains.
One glance ,
Pretty, pretty maiden!
One glance, passion laden,
Will wake me to-day to the hope of to-
morrow j
I’ll love you for ever and ever and ever
If you’ll love me ever to-morrow... .to-
morrow !
One Mss,
Pretty , pretty maiden!
One Mss, passion ladciii
Will burn me awake in the sunlight of
sorrow;
Oh, promise me kisses, and far greater
blisses;
But let them come ever to-morrow... -to-
morrow !
a tempo.
Como and be drunk with wine, women or
song!
These will be. fine for —no matter how long !
A minute, hour, year—why, our life isn’t
long. . . .
The world's full of wine and of women and
song.
Come and be drunk, brother! Come and be
drunk
In some way or other —O come and be
drunk!
Pour down the wine and our troubles are
sunk.
Come and be drunk, brother! Come and be
drunk!
For Death soon will take us
And surplices make us
And boil us or bake us, good, bad, rigid
or wrong ....
The world’s full of wine and of women
and song—
Come and be drunk, brother! Life is not
long !
Death may leave us lying
Sans hymns and sans frying;
Too late, then, our crying “0 come and be
drunk!”
Pour doivn the wine and our troubles are
sunk!
Come and be drunk, brother! Come and
be drunk!
N.S.W.
RONALD McCUAIG.


mm*
WESTIN GHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHQUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HULMlss « t'HUICH, lirisbane.
N.Z. Office —D3-10T Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House/’ 485 Itourke Street,
South Australian Agents: Messrs. GI.DMK. SMITH It
Melbourne.
CO., LTD.,
Adelaide. S.A.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
PROVED !
Those advertisers who are in the position to
test results have proved time and again that
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
is definitely the finest result-getter in all Queensland,
It is more than 50 years younger than its morning contemporary.
Its circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be greater
than any other Queensland daily, and its influence and reader-value
are certainly unsurpassed.
Rate cards, specimen copies, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-94 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“THE AGE ”
Established 185).
Victoria’s Leading Morning Dally
ADVERTISERS!
I', ; vou wish (o stimulate the interest of the
facts 0 " 3 " publie in - volu ' Products, digest these-
Over 123,000 persons purchase “The Age”
daily (60 per cent. Metropolitan area,
40 per cent. ; Country districts).
Over 96 per cent, of the copies purchased
are home delivered to subscribers.
O'er 90 per cent, of the home deliveries
remain in the house for the womenfolk:
during the day,
and
Over 1,000,000 advertisements are pub-
lished in its columns annually.
‘THE AGE"
Audited Net Daily Circulation
123,533.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Ct.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
tbe Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
m Relation to Population,
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER» may be
obtained, at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price 1 %d.
ADVERTISER newspapers ltd.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8YV7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BKDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Minders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Get the News of
AH Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture,
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
"The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
385 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
Cbe mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
carries regularly a far greater total
volume of advertising than any other
newspaper published in Tasmania.
J I is thus, judged by the use made of
its columns, the most popular
as well as the most powerful of the
newspapers of Tasmania.
pROFIT by the experience of the
leading national advertisers, and
place The Mercury” first when
advertising is under consideration.
Average Net Circulation, 20,967.
JT is, undoubtedly, Tasmania’s ablest
and best conducted newspaper.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PCBUSHEIiS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
F. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House
30 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square/ ”
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin’ * takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
•J',
(C?
•’fr-r-
V'
ŵ
ARE THEY CLEAR
AND BRIGHT, OR
DULL AND
LUSTRELESS l
THE charm of a person’s eyes, which
should he clear, bright and the whites
tinged with blue, is often spoilt by ill-
health. Dullness and discolouration in the eyes
is a blemish and indicate constipation —which
means that poisons are being harboured in the
system fatal to health and beauty, besides giving
cause to biliousness, indigestion and headaches.
The medicine to remedy this condition is Beeeham’s Pills
{a dose at night keeps you right) a most effective and naturally,
actioned laxative. Keep your digestion right and eyes
bright with
BEECHAMS
WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX
PILLS
XMAS ISSUE
Oa,
WOMANS MIRROR
m
PACES
■r
m
M
■sss
SS
©5
1
X
f
itr Of*
9
ẁ


ẃ
What thousands of
Dodge cars have been
doing year after year for
the past fifteen years, the
new Dodge Six is doing
even more impressively
to-day in keeping faith
with the public. Dodge
engineers designed this
car for a new degree of
dependability a modern
dependability geared to
modem motoring needs.
To-day, with hosts of
new Dodge Sixes show-
ing thousands of miles on
their speedometers, these
cars are earning an even
higher owner - enthusiasm
and winning even finer
and deeper loyalty than
their able predecessors.
Dodbe Brothers six
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W Harden & Johnston, Limited, Sydney
Victoria . . Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Vic.) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane
. Way mouth Motor Company, Limited, Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Company, Limited, Perth
Tasmania Co-operative Motors, Ltd., Hobart
