

m
i
'isffl/A a
loii®
\I W -W
-AA .'AW 1 /. /,
r .MIL®
2 yr.
W/////
: 5
m
si
sss®?
»»
I*-',
«:17MT16
**
*lm=isstSf
cfv*
a
:/>
■ w'
<ri
not
XtxsSi
d
■**££*>
THE OLDEST HORSE
IN THE WORLD!
Establi shed 1742 and still in its prime.
Matured from early days in wood and
blended with subtlety and genius.
Real old Scotch whisky with a rare
distinctive flavour. In growing demand
throughout the world.
A man s drink—anytime, anywhere.
1W125
SE
ScotchWHISKY
The Bulletin
A Sparkling Holiday Number.
Vol. 50.—N0. 2563.
Wednesday, March 27, 1929*
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


\Y/RITE FOR THE LIBRARY CATA-
w LOGUE AND LISTS on all subjects,
which will be forwarded on application, post
free, to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. •
vnvjdxsnxr
QUO
i:
H:'®!
J_H£>VSAt
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
Love Me and the Luck is Yours!
As I was saying to Tabitha: Men are fools; why should they work for
a living when they can pick up wealth like this? Listen! All you have to
do is to look at me, love me, and the shilling’s mine, so to speak, but
the fortune’s yours—£lo,ooo of it. Nobody ever failed who trusted
Peter.
THE NEW SOUTH WALES FIRE BRIGADES’ ART UNION
FOR HOSPITALS, AMBULANCES, AND CHARITY.
(Sanctioned by the Attorney General)
©
©
I AM PETER
THE LUCK BRINGER.
TAIS IS YOUR LUCKY W
SEND ALONG AT ONCE
I
OON*U>
£lO,OOO in Prizes. First Prize a solid Gold Helmet, valued
at £3000; Second Prize a Golden Casket of Diamonds valued
at £1000; Third Prize a Diamond Tiara valued at £750.
TICKETS: ONE SHILLING.
Six Tickets, 5/; Twelve Tickets, 10/; Twenty-live Tickets, £l.
A Ticket a Day Keeps Misfortune Away!
Send at once. State whether Mr., Mrs., or Miss. Enclose stamped envelope
for result slip. Art Union Drawn on June 1, 1929.
Address: J. J. NEVILLE, Hon. Secretary.
Fire Brigades Headquarters, 213 Castlereagh-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
TAKE THE ADVICE OF A WISE OLD TOMCAT AND 808 IN.
I’LL BE HAPPY WHEN THE BOBS COME BOBBING ALONG!
/N
tk" VENUS'
plans the World
The first rough suggestion—the skilful
and accurate working out, the sharp
detailed ''drawings, all the preliminary
planning necessary to the carrying out of
constructive effort, call for the use of VENUS
PENCILS Whether it be for the building of a
battle-ship or the design of a simple household
article, the pencil is the first requirement: the
VENUS the first pencil.
17 Blacklead Degrees 68-9 H sd. each -4/9 per dozen, Super Copying (Medium & Hard) 6d.
each - 5/9 per dozen. Venus Copying (Medium & Hard) 4d. each - 3/9 per dozen.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN’* takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Sure Death to All Insects,
THE TYPHOID FLY,
A Messenger of Death to Man.
Kill that Fly with
“MUSTDIE”
The Non-Poisonous Powder.
Kills Cockroaches, Fleas, Bugs,
Mosquitoes.
Sold everywhere, Chemists, Grocers,
Storekeepers, 1/- a tin.
Or forward 1/- in stamps to
BOX 1520 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
The House Fly
aptly
termed
the
Typhoid Fly
Showing tht
rough hairy
body and
head and
legs, on
which
Microbes of
Disease adhere
KILL
VttAT FLY
The Red Page
Novels for Readers
The Bulletin Novel Competitions have
inspired a great deal' oi Red Rage talk
around and about the art of writing long
stretches of fiction. Most of this comment
seems to have been written by authors for
authors, and 1 have waited in vain for a
word from the Average Reader. I am, I
must confess, something less than an
Average Reader. My tastes are catholic;
my prejudices nil. I judge each thing by
its genre. I sneer at no writer because he
or she happens to be a master or mistress
of a sort of writing which the majority of
literary-minded folk either cannot appreci-
ate or regard with positive aversion. A
gfeat popular success does not embitter my
judgment.
The object of a novel is to make Me
•forget that I am Me; to translate me into
a world that is not my world, and in which
my mundane limitations don’t apply.
Hence, in a world of mortals mostly very
poor, the vogue of books that describe the
adventures of the very rich—especially the
very suddenly rich. No new trick. The
author or authors of the “Arabian Nights,”
in addition to a gift (suppressed by all save
one very broad-minded translator) for de-
picting those transports of passion that lie
beyond the ultra-violet limit imposed by
the censors on the Anglo-Saxon literary
spectrum, realised as fully as Charles Gar-
vice that it thrills the proletariat most inex-
pressibly to study the reactions of one of
their number when admitted suddenly to
the enjoyment of the superior luxuries of
civilisation. Thackeray’s Becky Sharp and
~)ick Swiveller’s Marchioness—how many
little slaveys have they bedevilled?
There isn’t a great deal of fundamental
material for novels as far as I can see.
There are men, women and children and the
thoughts, actions and emotions of these in
combinations and permutations. There’s
local color—exotic or domestic—and there’s
—I hesitate to advance this as material,
but isn’t it the most important ingredieut
in the pudding?—the personality of the
writer. .There’s nothing either good or bad
but comes by thinking on it, and good and
bad are so inextricably mixed in life that
the novelist who can help us by his alle-
gory to untangle some of the threads has
at least one way of holding our interest
and damming back that ever-imminent in-
vasion of the Me we are tired of associating
with.
Humor—there’s been a lot of debate
about that. I regard it as a fairyland almost
as delectable as the Land of Romance. , At
its worst it enables us to extract a grin out
of the troubles of others; at its best, to
view the cankers of our own hearts through
rose-tinted glasses.
Sincerity—which means the capacity for
seeing straight and setting down what is
seen—is a great quality in literature of all
sorts; not the most important in novel-
making, but mighty effective as a flavor.
To see—and tell—the whole truth would
be to seek to rob poor humanity of what it
half-dreads to find are illusions, but which
may be Ultimate Truths or Fundamental
Verities. Fiction can never be made solely
from the salt of experience, but it must be
leavened with it.
Character-drawing is one of the great
arts of novel-making. Here word-painting
can create more than an illusion of reality.
Micawber, John Silver, Sancho Panza, Sir
John Falstaff, Rawdon Crawley, all the
Forsytes, Kipps, Mrs. Hawksbee—l know
them better than most humans I have met.
I’m almost tempted to say I know them
better than I know myself. That doesn’t
mean that they are “true to life.” None
of them has more than two dimensions.
If it were possible to add the third they’d
be just as irrational and inconsistent and
ununderstandable as live humans.
Then there’s the thing called “unity.”
That means that the author has the whole
story clearly in his mind’s eye before he
sets pen to paper or finger .to keyboard, and
presses on logically from an opening that
foreshadows the end, through a logical
sequence of events that prepare for the
denouement, and so on to the climax, what-
ever it is. The novel with unity is the
one that robs most sleeping hours.
May I, as a something less than Average
Reader, put in a plea for the happy ending?
It may be deucedly artistic to wind up with
the heroine in a mad-house and the hero
gobbling up prussic acid in the wash-house,
but if there’s any chance of happiness for
the poor unfortunate blighters I think the
author should give them the benefit of the
doubt. Of course, “They married and lived
happily ever after” is quite passe as an
ending. In the modern style the novel
starts with the wedding bells, reaches a
divorce or an equivalent estrangement in
the first half, and then modulates into any
one of 16 other keys, with a choice of major
or minor modes. The absolute villain has
gone—his black must now be striped with
white or grey—and a little devil in the
best of heroes or heroines is advisable.
But the novel that is built on the formula
of Ecclesiastes will never be very popular
with the Average Reader. He likes to
rejoice with them that do rejoice and
weep with them that weep—and he likes
the weepers to have a.turn at the rejoicing
if it’s anyways possible. Australian novels,
in particular, should reflect some of the sun-
shine of the country and the magic of its
moonlight.
A. D. W.
The Attack on Reviewers
Few will agree with a statement which
Dale Collins made on this page recently:—
The opinion held by most Australians who succeed
abroad—really succeed, that is—is that such success
is a sure way to gain the enmity and jealousy of
the people at home.
I have known many Australians who have
succeeded abroad—Melba, Norman Lind-
say, George Lambert, Low, George Reid
and John Longstaff, to name a few—and
all have struck me, at one time or another,
as being profoundly embarrassed by the
extravagant praises of their fellow-country-
men. The trouble with nine Australians
out of ten, both at home and abroad, is the
opposite to that diagnosed by Dale Collins.
There are no geese in their literary and
artistic waters, and the swans, in additidn
to being super-birds, are immortals—they
never grow old or enfeebled.
Listen in a club, at a dinner party, on a
mail-ship, or, for that matter, at a gathering
of writers, to the judgments of most of the
Australians present on eminent Australians
and you will begin to imagine yourself
back in the America of whicji Dickens
wrote. The patriotism is absurdly over-
done. During the war I heard “Banjo”
Paterson classed in an A.I.F. mess as
“above Rupert Brooke, or any other living
poet”! And I once heard George Reid de-
scribed as “the greatest debater in the
House of Commons”—this when Balfour,
Churchill and Lloyd George were at their
best!
I have never met Mr. Collins, but I have
a great admiration for most of his work.
Would I be so enthusiastic if I knew him?
Fie says:—
It is significant that all the worst notices I have
had from Australia have come from Melbourne, the
town where. I spent most of my life.' Even the
distance to Sydney makes some difference.
An explanation of this phenomenon may
be, not jealousy on the part of the reviewers,
but something in the personality of the
novelist. The quality is as difficult to
define as it is easy to recognise on sight.
Geniuses sometimes have it (the admirer
who regretted that he had never “seen
Shelley plain” might have enjoyed Shel-
ley’s poetry less if he had), and it is com-
mon, of course, amongst mediocrities.
Marie Corelli and, before her, “Ouida”
were treated abominably by the reviewers,
though both were first-rate story-tellers,
and I have often thought that Byron’s
poetry would have inspired far less delight
amongst Frenchmen, such as Taine, if he
had been French and an acquaintance.
An example of great gifts scorned be-
cause the owners lack simpatica was being
afforded in London by the Sitwells when
I was there last. Their notices were almost
uniformly bad. As an admirer of the lovely
poetry in Osbert Sitwell’s “England Re-
claimed,” and of the equally lovely satire
in his “Before the Bombardment,” I found
this hostile attitude of the critics incom-
prehensible. Then I heard my idol make
a short speech and understood. He creates
the impression—no doubt quite wrongly- -
of being vain, arrogant, a poseur, every-
thing, in fact, that is antipathetic to the
plain, beer-drinking, golf-playing suburban-
ite who earns a living in Fleet-street.
It is entirely wrong and illogical, of
course, that writers should be judged on
such lines, but they always have been, and,
until the feat of dehumanising reviewers is
accomplished, they always' will be. I do
not say that Mr. Collins is one of these
antipathetic beings: he may possess all the
winsome personal charm of a Barrie. But,
on the evidence, the fault lies not in hate
but in himself that he is underpraised; and
it seems to me that to argue differently
is to wrong craftsmen who are often bored,
sometimes careless, and not always parti-
cularly quick on the uptake, but who are
without the meaner vicesv as a rule. If Mr.
Collins had said that enmity and jealousy
were at work in so much as one leading
reviewer, I would have been doubtful. His
suggestion that all the reviewers of a great
city suffer from these lacerating complaints
is simply beyond belief.
JOHN DALLEY.
In Defence of Essex Evans
Cecil Mann (R.P. 6/3/’29j takes 1000
words or more to excuse the jaundiced, con-
temptuous and cynical tone that he adopted
when reviewing A. and R.’s collected edition
of Evans’s poetry. He has become more
moderate, more judicial and more like what
a critic of The Bulletin ought to be;
yet he still selects what he frankly admits
is doggerel in his effort to justify his ill-
balanced criticism of Evans. It is quite
true that Evans, in his desire to be natural
and sincere, was prosaic at times; but the
same charge can be laid against greater
men than he. Evans’s poetry was the reflex
of his character. He was a far-seeing Aus-
tralian patriot, with a clean and healthy
taste, fine moderation, genuine good sense
and an intense regard for honor; and, above
(Continued on page 5.)


Value, Service and “ Truth in Advertising**—
these have made Anthony Horderns * what it is.
Holidays —and all Thoughts
turn toward Sport!
Consider These Excellent Values in
Shooting and Fishing Needs at
Anthony Horderns’
Hammer Gun, £7/10/-
Charles Bowerman’s 1 2G. double-barrel, breach-
loading, superior hackwork action, top-levei
Hammer Gun. Has double bolt, steel rebounding
locks, steel barrels, left choke and snap bore
and fastener. Is thread engraved and well
finished with doll’s-head extension rib. This
gun is nitro-proof. Price £7/10/-
With Greener Cross Bolt £B/10/-
Belgian Gun, £6/10/-
1 2G. Belgian double-barrel, breach-loading Gun.
Has quadruple Webley-Greener bolt, best re-
bounding bar, action locks, best-quality steel
barrels, choke, matted rib, full scroll fence.
This Gun has fine checkered walnut stock,
patent fore-end, and neat English engraving.
It is nitro-proof. Price £6/10/-
Winchester Rifle
Winchester Single-shot Rifle, Model 1 902. To
take .22 short, long or long rifle cartridges.
Round barrel 18 inches long. Weight, about
31b. Price, 32/6. With elevating sight, 36/-.
21 inches long, elevating sight, Model 1904, 40/-
Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906 Model. Takes
.22 cartridges. “Take Down’’ extra light weight,
20in. round barrel. Magazine holds I 3 short,
12 long or 1 1 long rifle cartridges. Weight,
about 51b. Price £4/10/-
Quadruple Reel, 9/-
SI
m
Sentre Quadruple
Reel, with adjust-
able check and
drag. 40 yards:
Price, 9/-. 80
yards: Price, 11/-
Ah TMOh V MOMOinnl' PAVILtOp,
At the
Royal Show
When visiting the Royal Show
allow yourself good time to
inspect Anthony Horderns' Great
Pavilion and Agricultural Ex-
hibit. You will find it well worth
while, for there you will see all
the latest productions in every
need for modern life. There is
a particularly fine display of
shooting and fishing require-
ments, for instance.
Cartridges
The New Non-corrosive Rim-fire Ammuni-
tion. Winchester “Staynless” and “Lestayn.”
Remington "Kleanbore."
.22 short 2/- 100. 17/6 1000.
.22 short 2/9 100. 23/6 1000.
.22 long rifle .... 3/3 100. 28/9 1000.
~1 —Ijnn
Cleaning Rods, 5/-
Best-quality 3-piece Redwood Cleaning Rods,
with solid brass joints. Complete with mop,
wire brush and brass jag. I 2G.
The set 5/-
Also 20G. Per set 5/6
Also 4 1 OG. Per set 5/9
Iver Johnson Gun, 50/-
Iver Johnson Single-barrel Ejector Gun, full
choke. 32in. barrel. Price SO/-
Harrington and Richardson 12G. Single-barrel
Ejector Gun. Full choke, 32in. barrel, with
matted top rib. Price 50/-
df
Decoys
Wood Decoy Ducks
and Drakes, painted
in natural colors.
Price, each .... 9/-
■■■■■■
mm
Haversacks, from 3|
Regulation Grey Canvas Haversacks—
-1 Oin. x 12in. Price, each 3/-
1 3in. x lOin. Price, each 5/6
14in. x 1 lin. Price, each 6/6
1 sin. x 12in. Price, each . ... 7/6
Khaki Waterproof Haversack, (bin. x I2in.. 8/»
Brown Duck Haversacks, 1 Gin x 12in., 6/-
Duck Calls, 3/-
Duck Calls, which produce a realistic sound.
Price, each 3/-
Quadruple Reel, 30/-
Akron Quadruple i
Multiplying Level
Winding. A
light-weight reel
of ample capacity.
Price 30/-
df
Bass-Oreno, s|-
South Bend Bass-Oreno. Has
wonderful erratic action, irresis-
tible to game fish. Primarily
designed for fresh-water fish, but
is also effective for salt-water
species. Body, 3J inches. 57-
South Bend Babe-Oreno. Body,
3 inches long. Price ~ . . 4/6
Pike-Oreno, 5/6
South Bend Pike*Oreno. - This
lure travels deep on account of
its particular construction. It is
equipped with three treble hooks,
extra strong. A mo3t effective
bait add it to your equipment.
Body length is inches. .
Price 5/6
Surf-Oreno, 5/-
The Midget Surf-Oreno is a sur-
face bait. Its special light spin-
ners create a swirl most alluring
to big game fish. Body is 2-|
inches long. Price 57-
Midget Under-water Minnow.
Green scale finish. Body, / /
inches long. Price 4/6
Crab W iggler, 5/-
Heddon’s Crab Wiggler, a very
successful lure for Perch. De-
tachable double hooks. Body
3i inches long. In Yellow, Perch
or Frog color. Price .... 5/-
(Shooting and Fishing Require-
ments —Ground Floor. Delivered
Free, City and Suburbs only.)
Anthony Horderns’
Telephone 1V12401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O,


i
«\
l
d
rm
w.
it',
i
HSttN
m
A Motor Car for Those
Accustomed to the Finest
THE advantages of great volume production such as Nash enjoys
will be seen instantly when the new Nash “400” is compared with
more expensive cars.
It has every costly-car advantage—fine craftsmanship—materials of
highest quality—advanced features such as centralized chassis lubrica-
tion, hydraulic shock absorbers, and the like.
It has graceful, modern, low-swung style which marks it for attention
and outspoken admiration wherever fine motor cars are assembled.
And it has economical power in its Twin-Ignition motor —bringing
to motoring, for the first time, the same efficiency found in racing and
aero engines.
To those accustomed to the finest, Nash presents the new “400."
NASH 400"
Tourers, Sedans.
Standard Six from £375 £4so*
Special Six from £4BO £565*
Advanced Six from £63o* £62o*
*lmported body.
(4-9490)
Distributors for New South Wales:
WILLSFORD, LTD:,
132-134 Phillip Street,
SYDNEY.
Phonet: BW 229 1 (5 lines).
Distributors for Victoria and Tasmania
RICKARDS BROS. PTY., LTD.,
567-573 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE, Cl.
’Phone: F 3 1 14.
Distributors for Queensland:
PEELS, LTD.,
407-431 Stanley Street,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
’Phone: J 1561.
Distribiitors for South Australia:
AUTOCARS, LTD.,
58-72 Flinders Street*
ADELAIDE.
‘Phone: Central 5500.
Distributors for West Australia:
ERIC MADDREN MOTORS, LTD.,
996 Hay Street,
PERTH.
Phones: 85610, B 7634.


CJnuj
Visitors
to London
Mappin & Webb have the distinction of
being one of the oldest Firms of Gold
and Silversmiths, Jewellers, and Dress-
i ipg Bag Makers in the World, and they
extend a cordial invitation to visitors
from the Commonwealth to call when
•in London.
The Oxford Street and Regent Street
Showrooms are within 5 minutes by
taxi from the leading Hotels; the City
Showrooms are quite near St. Paul’s
I Cathedral, The Tower of London, Guild-
hall, and opposite The Mansion House.
MAPPmWEBB
JEWELLERY • WAT CHE S • CLOCKS • SILVERWARE
PRINCESS PLATE • FANCY t LEATHER GOODS.
*: LONDON SHOWROOMS :
158162, OXFORD STwi.l72.REfi ENT S*w.i.2.QUEEN VICTORIA STis.CA
all, he was pure-minded and sincere, and
wrote in clear and manly English.
I mentioned that Courtney (London
“D.T.”) and Iver, two recognised English
critics, who judged Evans’s poetry by its
clarity, its honesty and its message, had
given him a high place in the poetry of the
Dominions. I will call one other eminent
English critic for the defence, the late
Herbert Warren, then Professor of Poetry
at Oxford. Writing from Magdalen College
on April 8, 1918, to Mr. J. A. Philp, an old
Bulletin contributor, Professor Warren
said:—
I am very much interested to know that Essex
Evans was your friend, and that you value him so
highly. I agree with you in thinking that Kendall
is sweeter, and I think well of Daley, too; but
Evans seems to me to have more of what a great
critic called “the fundamental brain-work ” which
must underlie great poetry than either of them. I
think another poet whose works 1 have been reading
recently has much of this. I refer (o O’Dowd. But
he, on the other hand, is not so poetic in expression
as Evans. Also I think that Evans’s patriotic poems
are strikingly good. I wish 1 had written to him
before he died; my letter to him was just too late.
That, was the opinion of Herbert Warren;
and Warren’s letter may be inspected, if
necessary, by the Brisbane representative
of The Bulletin. When Warren and Ker
talk about poetry and the forms of poetry
most people are content to listen in silence.
Mr. Mann, of course, may remain “un-
moved.”
FIRMIN MCKINNON.
Two Essayists
With his own godlike disregard for
whether an act of his will give an individual
ft fragment of joy or merely wreck a world,
the P.M.G. consistently sends up The Bul-
letin stairs bundles of books in which
the gentle verses of thrush-stricken vicars
keep company promiscuously with volumes
written about, if not by, “Daughters of
Joy”—as Stevenson delicately remarked that
the French, “with romantic evasion,” had
called them. It is seldom that the
mail holds only, as it did the other day,
the work of two writers who, though, won-
derfully dissimilar in details, are so much
one in a general sense, in the fundamental
things, that their association seems inevit-
able even though the books issue from dif-
ferent houses and belong to different
centuries. The writers were Mary Russell
Mitford and Robert Lynd; the books,
Sketches of English Life and Character
(reprinted in the “Week End” Library) and
The Green Man; the publishers, John Lane
and Methuen.
At a glance these writers seem as far
apart as their sexes and periods. Mary
R. Mitford is exquisitely feminine; Lynd
almost a champion of the masculine and
the manly. Miss Mitford’s essays are as
sequestered as was that nineteenth-century
of which she made them ;
Mr. Lynd’s are loud with the living, honk-
ing, blaring ’bus- and traffic-crowded
London of this mechanised age. You
always feel of Miss Mary that she never
took up her pen unless she had something
to say; of “Y.Y.,” as he is most familiarly
known, that he sometimes assaults his type-
writer because he has to say something.
Miss Mary’s essays are always good litera-
ture; “Y.Y.’s” are always entertaining read-
ing. This is not to say that Robert Lynd
does not write good literature: you have
only to read such an essay as “The Shy
Fathers” (in “The Blue Lion”) and, for
contrast, “The Life of Sensations” (in “The
Money Box”) and many another in his
dozen and more volumes to appreciate what
fine literature he can write. But at times
he is strained. Still, as in this, his latest,
his essays always entertain, and that’s not
ail attribute to be sneezed at.
The apparent divisions between these
writers can be widened by quotation, for
they have looked upon like spectacles, such
as a village cricket match, with how differ-
ent eyes:—
Still the sun was shining, and the youth of the
village, all glorious in white, were playing cricket
on the green. It was not very good cricket. The
batsmen hit the ball hard as you could have wished,
but they usually hit it into somebody’s hands. The
bowlers rushed towards the wicket like angry bulls,
but the balls they bowled would have been harmless
enough if the batsmen had not so longed to sweep
them over the hedges. The fielders stood about in
all kinds of attitudes—some like jumping frogs, some
like tigers about to spring, some like indolent
human beings—but, even though the balls sailed
straight towards their hands like gifts from Heaven,
they were just as likely to miss them as to catch
them. Yet, somehow, in the warm sun, with the
spectators lying in the grass and applauding not
without jocularity each new batsman as he came
out in huge pads that gave him the stiff appearance
of a knight in armor, only to whirl a hat a few
times wildly round him and then creep hack to the
pavilion, one could not help feeling that here, if
anywhere in time or space, was happiness without
a shadow.
That is the manner of “Y.Y.,” though it
is only fair to him to say that he is not
always such an outsider: often he gets to
the very heart of things, as Mary R. Mit-
ford did when she went to just that iden-
tical sort of cricket match:—
They began the warfare, these boastful men of
B. And what think you, gentle reader, was the
amount of their innings? These challengers—the
famous eleven —how many did they get ? Think!
imagine! guess ! —You camiot ? —-Well! —they got
twentv-two, or rather they got t\ventj f ; for two of
theirs were short notches, and wouid never have
been allowed, only that, seeing what they were made
of, we and our umpire were not particular
They should have had twenty more, if they had
chosen to claim them. Oh, how well we fielded!
And how well we bowled! Our good play had
quite as much to do with their miserable
failure as their bad. Samuel Long is a slow
bowler, George Simmons a fast one, and the change
from Long’s lobbing to Simmons’s fast balls
posed them completely. Poor simpletons! they were
always wrong, expecting the slow for the quick, and
the quick for the slow. Well, we went in. And
what were our innings? Guess again!—guess! A
hundred and sixty-nine! In spite of soaking showers
and wretched ground, where the ball would not run
a yard, we headed them by a hundred and forty-
seven ; and then they gave in, as well they might.
Yet a careful examination of both of
them will prove that their differences are
those common to all good writers, who
must be different to exist. In the attribute
that most matters in the essayist, human-
ness, they are wonderfully alike. Where
so many are carpers and croakers, so many
cynical and bitter, parochial and cramped,
they have, as the good essayist must have,
a warm friendship with the world at large.
And, like its more common opposite, it is
contagious, that sort of friendship. Who
does not love Lamb for himself? These
two, the one his contemporary, the other
a London journalist of to-day, may not be
quite in Elia’s class, but they are at least
distinguished enough members of the same
select school to be mentioned in a second
breath.
Before ending with them, there is a bio-
graphical sentence written by Professor
Saintsbury of Miss Mitford that bears quot-
ing as much for his sake as for hers:—
Miry Russell Mitford, born at Alresford, a town of
Wither, on 16tli of December, 1780, was the daughter
of a doctor and a rascal, who, when she was a
child, had the incredible meanness to squander
twenty thousand pounds which she won in a lottery,
and later the constant courage to live on her earnings.
Robert Lynd, born 1879, is a tall North
of Ireland man, careless of dress, and a
wretched golfer.
A Satchel of Books
The (Jane for Individualism, by Ernest J.
*!•' ? eni } (Cornstalk). An Australian reprint
ot the slashing book reviewed in this Satchel
a few months ago under the title “The
Return to Laissez Faire.”
Up North, by T. Lund (Werner Laurie).
A story of a brand that is becoming too
familiar—the adventures and love affairs of
a sergeant of that spectacular and well-adver-
tised force, the Canadian N. W. Police.
■Benn's Library. To this remarkable scries
of cheap booklets have been added “Dante,”
by Cesare Foligno; “Marriage,” by E. Wes-
ter mar ck ; “English Economic History,” by
A. Elizabeth Levett; “Early Christianity and
its Rivals,” by G. H. Box; “The Black
Death,” by G. G. Coulton ; “An Introduction
to Zoology,” by J. Graham Kerr.
European Skyways, by Lowell Thomas
(Heinemann). Twenty-five thousand miles
of flying over Europe, from London to Asia
Minor, from Paris to Poland, Moscow to
Spain and So on. Freely illustrated with
photographs and briskly written, the book
reads like a new sort of picaresque novel.
American Ambassadors to England, by
Beckles Willson (Murray). Companion
volume to the same author’s book on his
country’s ambassadors to France. The term
here covered is from 1785 to 1928, and the
gallery holds about 40 portraits. Five of
these ambassadors became Presidents and
11 Secretaries of State.
The Porro Palaver, by Adam Broome'
(Geoffrey Bles). A yarn of West Africa as
seen through the eyes of officialdom. The
writer evidently knows his ground well and
has quite a good yarn of mystery and crime
to tell. But he falls down in the telling of
it, as so many of his kind do.
Letters from the Steppe; 1886-87, by
William Bateson (Metheun). Bateson, who
was to achieve world fame, went in the
middle ’eighties to search for evidences of
marine fauna on the desolate steppes of Cen-
tral Asia and Southern Siberia, including the
Sea of Aral, and the multitudinous salt lakes
of that vast area. Not written for publication,
the letters are full of keen observation and
humor, and the character sketches of Russian
officialdom in the “never-never” towns of the
frontier are delightful. Almost his only com-
plaint is of Airan. the principal food and
drink of the Kirghiz, upon which lie was
often compelled to subsist. This, he says, is
composed of putrid marc’s milk, and has the
odor and flavor that might be expected.
Elizabeth and Essex, by Lytton Strachey
(Chatto and Windus). Undisguised romance
in many places, none the less enter-
taining for that, but still not what the book
purports to be, which is history. Here is the
way of the drawing (the lady is Elizabeth) :
The fierce old lien sat still, brooding over the
English nation, whose pullulating energies were com-
ing swiftly to ripeness and unity under her wings.
She sat still, but every feather bristled; she was
tremendously alive.... She swore; she spat; she
struck with her fist when she was angry; she roared
with laughter when she was amused. And she was
often amused.
The writer’s fine narrative style has
a flowing rush in it that makes the book
entertaining as anyone might desire.
Letters of Pontius Pilate, edited by W.
P. Crozier (Cape; Robertson and Mullens).
A rather foolish attempt appears to be made
in the preface to present this correspondence
between the Roman Procurator of Judaea and
liis friend Seneca in Rome as genuine.
Apart from that the book is mQst
amusing and even instructive. Pilate’s atti-
tude towards the Jews is precisely the same
as that of an English Governor of modern
India. The advent of Jesus is an unmiti-
gated nuisance, portending mob outrages,
but he has a sneaking admiration for the
man and would be really concerned
about handing Him over to the Sanhedrim
for execution if it were not’ for the fact
that he is terribly worried over a much more
important matter —finding a substitute for
his favorite gladiator, Aduatucus, killed in
a taveru brawl.
Children of the River, by Harris Dickson
(J. H. Sears). Deals with a people and
period not usually exploited by the American
novelist —the wild river folk of the lower
Mississippi at the end of the 18th century.
The earlier part of the book describes delight-
fully the adventures of a motherless family
from the Kentucky mountains drifting in a
rough scow down the great stream with all
their family goods, including a cow and
numerous fowls, past murderous gangs of
river pirates. Then there is a clear picture
of New Orleans in its Creole glory, followed
by the American purchase period and ending
with the story of Pakenliam’s futile attack
on Andrew Jackson, A fresh and eminently
readable yarn.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted-; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
J.11.D.: You seem to have mistaken a
draught-horse for a muse. .. .S.L.H.: “Can you use
enclosed?” We couldn’t read it.... A.W.R.: Cap-
tivated by train which (1) pants and fumes like a
greyhound; (2) champs the bit; (3) is a steel-girt
monster; (4) whirls on like an Amazon in queenly
power; (5) purrs with glee; (0) gets into a loping
stride; (7) seems to prance in jingling dance; (8)
seems a giant toy, also a steam-horse, and (9) finally
gets in on time... .W.: How you poets do abuse the
poor old city !... .T.W.N.: Rings rather h0110w....
E. ; Not. for us. .. . W.J.C.: As a news item, good;
as verse, w00d... .K.D.S.; You use good paper, any-
way. ...Leon London: Won’t quite fit in here....
F. : Read it aloud to a gramophone and see if
the beast doesn’t horn y0u....G.M.: Well, have your
barrack for Burns:—
Those poems of his which he took
Pride in writing them
For us and always about the place
In which he belonged to
Which was his ambition in life
To see that Scotland sons
Done just as much as any other
Nations poet’s did in
Writing poems for his and their
People while he was left
With us to do so to write on about
The Scots and their doings
lit Scotland to share his success
With the Scotch on the shores
In which he intended to stay until
He was spared no longer
To stop but to shove off to go skyward.
J.M.H.: Helpless... .J. 8.5.: “Lower —shore.” Well,
wc have heard “shore” pronounced like that. .. .Rab;:
“Flies” swatted... .K.Me.K.: Reduction of zinnias to
terms of food rejected... . A.S.: You should feel better
now... .W.S.P.: Not quite. ... L.C.L.H.: “Dreams”
impress not.. . .F.X.: Verse that goes on and on has
now reached w.p.b E.N.: We haven’t yet decided
whether the verse they write means that Australians
love the bush blindly or hate it.... V.J.M.: Never
mind ; others have dreams like that, too. . . .Learning;
All stir hostile feelings... . P.J.C.: Forecast that you
will be “poet laureate in the eternal spheres” filed on
asbestos for future reference.... J. Este : Rather ter-
rible... .J.L.; “If this is not verse, what is it?” We
don't know.... Rex: You're game, asking for a frank
criticism of that■ . ■ .Darken ; Fairly close. . . . G.C.AV.:
Hackneyed ideas and prosy treatment.... Troubadour:
They arc not “just a bit deadly.” They are dead. . . .
A.N.; We know men who can write that sort of
stuff by the gallon, but they prefer selling what
they call milk.... J.W.: Sweet spring trailed over
the familiar fields leaving behind the old familiar
rhyme. .. .J.C.C.: “The day broke dull and drear
on this bleak July morning on which our story
opens.” And the story was duller and drearer....
T.J.L.: Elephant yarn too bulky... .J.E.V.: Not a
bad effort, but short of publication standard....
G.W.: Unacceptable; but have another shot....
N. : A smooth emptiness..G.M.S.: With a little
improvement we might be able to use it in this
column C. 8.: “Keep it Dark”? Certainly....
O. : It’s not “plain bad,” but it lacks zip....
8.F.: Rather appealed to us, but it’s the wrong time
of year for spring odes... .E.W.0’8.: “Over Here”
gets a spin. If you would cut jour verses down by
half and polish the remainder, j’ou would do a lot
better.... Alexander: If you’re the chap they called
The Great v'ou’ve slipped.... M.D.P.: The “Ship”
is now on the return voyage, still loaded down with
commonplaces... . Psyche : ( 'riko.v ! V.E.W.: It
might fit in somewhere, but not here... . A.A.: “A
squashed mess of splashing spurts of luscious juice.”
You know, that’s wonderful.... W.C.: You do wobble
a lot. .. . M.G.: You make the Harbor very wooden
.. .. V.G.W.: Save all verse of that quality for winter
use... .D.M.A.: “The River at Batesford” very dry
.. . . V..1.M.: Verse about Hobbs poked to basket, field-
ing admirably, as usual. .. .S.L.J.: “Specimens of
poetic literature” turned down... . A.G.H.: You might
be able fo sell it as vacuum for one of them there
vacuum-cleaners. .. . b.A.S.: “Are You Waiting in the
Valley of Lagoons?” The answer is in the negative
.. . .P. Palomine: 111-constvucted and tedious... .L.E.:
There is a false glitter about it... .A.J.: An incident
and a retrospect, but not a story... ..L.L.: Your
major belongs to a type found in old Victorian
farces.... A.J.F.; Afraid to let the dinosaur and the
atlantosaurus loose in our pages. ... R.L.H.: Pale
moonlight, moaning wind, fitful shadows and a
corpse. Stacks of its kind in the cellar.. . .E.N.: You
are not the only man who pursues the expert, but the
axe is more effective than words... . G.A.: Admire
your determination; but not this time.... V.E.:
Makes each particular hair stand on end....W.5.:
The conversion of crooks by kookaburras and sun-
sets is remarkable, to say Ihe least.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.S.: They couldn’t stay the distance ; you’ll have
to do a longer preparation. .. .G.K.W.: Very tired
of baby-car gags. .. . T.A.G.; Had to kill that cricket
enthusiast....G.L.M. : Don't like your way of doing
it. ...T.M.; If you saw all that at the Test match
.you must have arrived home in a terrible state....
E.P.: Has some merit, but not enough. .. .L.M.F. :
Your drunks merely hiccough. .. . H.A.J.: Slight do for
a curate at a meeting of the sewing circle. .. ,H.R.:
Why inflict her upon us?. ... E.N.K.: So that inebri-
ate is still addressing the Botanic Garden statue. . . .
T. 5.1.: Depressing joke; more depressing drawing... .
G.S.: Nothing to write home about. ... A.L.D.: Go in
for sand-modelling.. ..E.W.: Shows vigor, but lines
are misdirected... .0.K.: Far from it... . T.J.H.: As
flat as the Nullarbor Plain.... 11. C.; The polo game
did not. thrill.... D.W.: No use for deformed barman
with blotchy face.


d
FAMOUS
WINES
mmmM
?}
mmr
i*
IwjlfjfiL. „*k,
?,, ■
:
S'-
vl
-
I
... »
Hi
*
v?
m
1
*
§i§r2p rl
%
.• :•
- *v LxJh
■-&
""• ■'
li-g . /*» - f
m
I
mm
&


The Bulletin
Yol. 50. —No. 2563.
March 27, 1929.
THE SEANCE.
THE MEDIUM: “I see a small, dark man. He has a Dominating Personality. He has done great things in the past, but the future is beckoning him to even
greater heights of glory.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
iH George Street, Sydney.
Vic'J’ohia: ltl)-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 245 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : S 6 Southampton Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Fre% to anv address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 1,5.; 6 months, 12s. fid.;
5 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £l It)*.;
6 months, los. 6d.; S months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
I'tji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom: !/Oz. to tOoz. , lid.:
each additionalJoz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., ‘lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: t/oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED page literary ARTICLES . . 2,5
Bulletin Novel Competition • • , 2
THE ATTACK ON REVIEWERS . . .. 2
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. .. 5
“THE SEANCE”—a Leason Cartoon .. .. 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
Mr. Buttenhole Speaks 8
THE MAN WHO TURNED THE TIDE .. 8
LLOYD GEORGE LEARNS FROM LANG .. 9
A PEHCIVAL CARTOON 9
POLITICS (with caricatures) .. .. .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. ~ .. n ( 12
PERSONAL (with caricatures) .. .. .. 14
POVERTY POINT 15
A SCORFIELD DRAWING .15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..17
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS .. .. 18, 20
Howard Smith, Ltd 18
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BREWERY CO. . . 18
FOSTER BREWING CO 18
WRIGHT, HEATON & CO 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 23, 25
Free Service Department ~ 26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 29
PRIZES FOR FARMERS 28
SMOKE-OH 32
“A Rogue in Amber” 34, 55
PEN AND PICTURE 37
NEW MOVIES AND TALKIE; .. . . 37
SPORTING (Illustrated) 39, 41, 42
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC 42
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 44
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 4G
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 49
VERSE 53, 58
Two Complete Stories
“RUNNING THE EASTING DOWN,”
by W. Graeme-llolder . . . . 51, 53
“MAD MALONE,” by J. H. M. Abbott . . 57, 58
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 27, 1929.
MR. BUTTENHOLE SPEAKS.
Mild resignation to what it regards as the
decrees of Fate is a characteristic of the
Bavin-Buttonhole Ministry, which runs
the troubled show in N. S. Wales. It is
better than some of its predecessors, but
it isn’t sufficiently better to cope with con-
ditions which are so very much worse, in-
cluding the finances and the brutal manners
of a section of the Lower Beargarden,
which are even worse than the finances.
Recently, while opening a filtration plant
at Bowral, the Assistant-Premier, who is
also Minister for Works and Railways,
seized the opportunity afforded by filtra-
tion plants and new tramway waiting-rooms
and the like to say something about the
situation:
“I do not mind candidly admitting that
the Government is in extreme financial diffi-
culties. Of the total money at our disposal,
774 p.c. must be spent in the metropolitan
area. The outlay in interest alone on the
Sydney Harbor bridge is £l5O per day, but
the money to be spent on the bridge is infini-
tesimal compared with that to be expended on
the underground railway.... I hope, after
this financial year, that our position will be
infinitely better, and thus enable the Govern-
ment to show what it can do so far as our
country towns are concerned.... I assure
you that in the next financial year, at least,
the Government will do a little more than it
has been able to do in the last 12 months.”
The position is certainly serious, as But-
tenshaw said, and if it happens to prove
fatal that will be even worse. The Gov-
ernment has just got a bill through the
Assembly to put the deficit as at last June
(£4,341,180) into the public debt, where it
will doubtless be permanent, and will re-
produce over £6OO a day interest for the
State’s creditors. Another deficit is growing
rapidly. The Child Endowment tax on em-
ployers (so much per cent, added to the
wages bill) is to be reimposed, the fund
having gone heavily to the bad (£1,000,000
shortage has been mentioned), partly be-
cause the children of strikers and other un-
employed have come on it in large num-
bers. When the tax, which has been tem-
porarily suspended, was previously levied
it had a surprising effect on secondary in-
dustry, which started on the down-grade,
and this may happen again. Still, if Min-
isters took the logical step of abolishing
the endowment Lang would" certainly call
them names, and they are afraid to stop
him. There is always the chance that the
city railway and the Harbor bridge will
prove two dead losses, especially if the rail-
way is still to cost so much that
the outlay on the bridge will be
“infinitesimal” by comparison. And if
country railway-building is to be pushed
on with some vigor next year, allowance
must be made for the fact that so few
new country lines pay interest on their
cost, or even expenses, that they rarely
live up to expectations in promoting
settlement, and that they are rank failures
in creating small-town industries because
the big city wants the industries.
A well-known Sydney sharebroking firm
attached this remark to its February list
regarding the Federal Treasurer’s new local
loan:
“The door was shut in London when the
discount rate was raised from 44 to 54 p.c.,
and America does not want our loans at
present, so the only alternative was to test
the market locally.”
And if London and America come to believe
that the adverse trade balance has come to
stay, in which case they have little chance of
either interest or sinking-fund contributions
unless they lend the money themselves, they
may do more than shut the door. They
may even use derogatory language through
the keyhole.
All the same, wfflen S. M. Bruce made
some recent luncheon remarks to the effect
that Australia has no problems except that
it is infested by gloom-mongers and pessi-
mists, The Bulletin trusts that the epi-
thets weren’t intended for it. If they were
it repudiates them more vigorously than
Page did Hughes when he called the Welsh-
man an abscess and a running sore, or, at
least, the Welshman says he did. This paper
never fails to point out to Bruce and his
friends that the whole position can be trans-
formed if his party will only prohibit a suffi-
cient quantity of non-essential imports, as is
done with nigger-grown sugar, and thereby
save the nation’s money and create employ-
ment. If Bruce is hard of hearing in that
ear it is his misfortune, or his fault in not
getting the ear attended to.
ANOTHER HUGHES STUNT.
Mr. W. M. Hughes, who has been showing
unwonted sympathy for ex-Diggers of late,
said, in reference to the new War Pensions
measure:—
“Many a man went through four years of
hell in France, and I defy anyone to persuade
me that those years of service did not affect
his vitality and diminish liis energy. It is
the Ministry’s duty to put such men back
where they were before.”
Yet when the speaker was Prime Minister,
and a dictator, his Government’s policy
was the opposite of that which he advo-
cates now. Any soldier who' was leaving
hospital or a hospital ship could earn a
quick discharge and be quit of the army
for ever (an inestimable boon to the war-
weary) by signing a statement that he was
“not suffering from a war disability.” In
this way thousands of gassed men, men
with affected hearts, shell-shocked men,
T.B. sufferers (actual and incipient), and
others who looked and felt well enough, but
had in them the seeds of disease and death,
were emptied into civilian life.
In 1920 the Hughes Government’s Repat-
riation Act was passed, and the Repat.
Commission was appointed. Under the Act
only those whose disabilities had been
“substantially contributed to by war ser-
vice” could claim pensions, and the inter-
pretation of this phrase was left to the
Commissioners. They began with the
premise that no ex-soldier who had had
v.d., either before or during the war, was
entitled to a pension. Under this rule a
private who had been returned as a cot
case after 31 years’ service suffering from
T.B. and chronic bronchitis was disquali-
fied; and W. M. Marks, the member for
Wentworth, cited the case of a constituent
who, after being shot in the face in action,
“was refused a pension on the ground that
the wound, which had blinded him, did not
amount in law to a war injury.” As a
result of these and other activities of the
sort Joseph Cook, W. M. Hughes’s Trea-
surer, was able to announce in his 1921
Budget speech that ex-Diggers’ pensions
had been cut down in the preceding 12
months by £697,000.
This is the “soldiers’ friend” who has the
effrontery to say now that the Ministry is
only moving because “it sees that if some-
thing is not done for the soldier something
will be done to the Ministry,” and to argue
that “for any pensions appeal board claim
to be successful, it is essential that the
onus of proof shall be shifted from the
shoulders of stricken soldiers and placed on
the shoulders of the Ministry.”
The Returned Soldiers’ League itself has
never asked that the onus of proof shall be
placed on the Ministry. That proposal was
dismissed, after discussion, as too much of
a good thing altogether. The soldiers
suffer from no illusions with regard to the
pure altruism of the present Government,
and they are aware that a succeeding Gov-
ernment may be even more ready to save
money at their expense, or at the expense
of their dependents. But if the bill which
is now before Parliament is amended in
accordance with Mr. Hughes’s suggestions
matters may be made much more uncei’-
tain and expensive for many claimants.
What the measure will do, if passed in its
present form, is to create an Appeal Court
and an Assessment Appeal Court to which
pension-seekers can go from Repat. that
will be as nearly Minister-proof as anv
institution of the sort can be. In other
words, it will provide an effective antidote
to the brass-hatted bane which has been
afflicting ex-soldiers for the past decade.
No body of pensioners in the world could
fairly ask Parliament for more or expect
to benefit permanently by getting more.
W. M. Hughes used the Diggers to
glorify himself during the war; his Govern-
ment, which was himself, used officialdom
to deprive many ex-soldiers of well-earned
pensions after the Armistice; and now he
wants to exploit the men again to discredit
his political enemies Bruce and Page.
THE MAN WHO TURNED THE TIDE.
The latest hero of the Great War to go
west was also the greatest: Ferdinand
Foch, the man who turned the tide, and did
so with startling suddenness. Many valu-
ations have been made as to his place in
military history. One of them classed him
second among the great commanders who
have shaken up Europe, Hannibal being
first and Napoleon third. But such com-
parisons are full of difficulty.
Among the circumstances which go to the
making of a recognised great war chief are
abundant courage, a good training (though
this has often been dispensed with), genius
(which includes plain horse sense), a good
army, the knack of inspiring confidence and
devotion, a big enough field to work in, a
long enough war, and the luck or good judg-
ment not to be struck by a bullet before
the war correspondents have awakened to
his value. Gustavus Adolphus and Wolfe
lacked the luck to dodge the early bullet.
Garibaldi had a narrow field, an impro-
vised army, and poor support from his
sovereign. Cesare Borgia never saw war
till he took the field as commander-in-chief.
He had a small and mostly mercenary
army, a limited field, and a sovereign who
foolishly died on his hands after his second
brilliant campaign, leaving him “in the air.”
Charles XII. had every quality except horse
sense. The man who has just died had all
the qualifications, and he missed none of
his chances.
Foch had built up so great a reputation
during the earlier stages of the Great Dis-
agreement that when the Allies resolved on
the belated appointment of a supreme com-
mander in the West his selection was prac-
tically a matter of course. He was then
aged 67. When he took charge in April,
1918, after politely but firmly requesting
War Ministers and such to keep out of
his line of vision, the war looked a very poor
or even a lost proposition*. Certainly United
States troops were beginning to arrive in
quantity, but as the Russians had gone out
while the Americans came in the position
wasn’t altered so much as might appear.
And the U.S. forces were ill-trained
and poorly equipped. Their advent
gave the German a shock, for it showed him
how badly his sea campaign had failed, but
otherwise he was only moderately impressed.
The transatlantic officers in high places were
mostly ancient, the exception being com-
mander-in-chief Pershing, whose years num-
bered 57. Pershing’s friend Roosevelt had
promoted him over the heads of hundreds
of seniors, so that he skipped a lot of
grades. Otherwise he might have been 87
before his chance reached him.
The war had gone through well-defined
stages by the time Foch arrived and put
a sudden air of decision into every move-
ment, whereby the dejected tail of the
Allied soldier was wonderfully erected and
stiffened. It began as an orthodox busi-
ness of rifles, common or garden artillery,
and machine guns—far too few of the last
on the Allied side. After preliminary dis-
appointments the Hun decided that victory
was difficult if not impossible under his
book rules, in which respect he was probably
wrong, and he started to dig in. It was
an unprecedented dig, for he enslaved the
civil population without any scruple, and
made them toil on the job. Tremendous
bombardments failed to clean out the
defenders from their pits and holes. The
ultimate attack was met by machine-guns
which hadn’t been cleared out, and the
result was that the campaign of “nibbling
away,” as Joffre described it, was fright-
fully expensive in the matter of Allied lives,
and yielded results so trivial as to be
heartbreaking. Yet the attack had to be
kept up. If the dug-in Hun could hold
his stolen ground indefinitely in France
and Belgium he had won, and unless the
Allies could recover it some day or year
or century, they had lost.
Then the tank arrived in force, and the
Allies took to it much more enthusiastically
than the Huns, for they were yearning to
attack if it was only possible .to find the
necessary weapon. When the fresh beast
began to wade through barbed wire defences,
step over trenches and ignore machine-guns
the war of stalemate got into difficulties,
and the campaign was out into the open
again.
From the day when Foch assumed
supreme command till the Huns signed
away their navy, an incalculable amount of
military apparatus, and all their conquests
as the price of a respite, was a little under
seven months. About half-way through that
period the proud but disappointed invaders
showed signs of cracking up. The first
visible crack was near the top. when Luden-
dorff wrote that August 8 was “the black
day of the German army.” A striking moral
contrast became anna rent. Foch and his
leading subordinates were inspiring figures,
■while the Kaiser, -who had never been in-
spiring, lost caste (such of it as remained)
when he failed to make for the front and
do his damnedest, however clumsily, to
stave off the disafier. Even Napoleon 111.
did that much. As for Ludendorff and co.
they had evidently lost faith in their
monarch and in his destiny and in their
own. The outlook for the Huns on Novem-
ber 11, 1918, wasn’t very much worse than
that of the Allies on the previous April
14, leaving the personal factor out of the
question, but it wouldn’t be left out.
Ferdinand Foch was a clean-living gentle-
man with no reputation of the painted
picturesque order. It is probable that
Western Europe won’t find another such
general for a long time. It is also to be
hoped that it won’t want him for a long
time, and that it will find him in good
time.
JAMES EDMOND.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Coal Without Quarrels.
The most temperate contribution to the
discussion between the Newcastle-Maitland
coal-owners’ and coal-miners’ representa-
tives, which hitherto has been more of a
bad-tempered barney than anything else,
was the address of D. J. Davies, secretary
of the Miners’ Federation, to the Consti-
tutional Club in Sydney. Mr. Davies came
very near the root cause of the friction that
so heavily handicaps the industry when he
said:—
“The very nature of the mine worker’s
life, the dangers he runs, the unsatisfactory
conditions under which he works, help to
breed a state of savage discontent with his
lot. lie gets cynical and breeds revolt. The
mine manager who does not understand that
temperament is going to have trouble.”
There is proof that the converse is correct,
and that where the mine management under-
stands the temperament of the men it saves
itself a lot of trouble. On the Collie field
in Westralia there has been one strike in
14 years, and that lasted only eight days.
They have disputes on that field as on
every other, but they don’t wait weeks or
months for a Court to settle them. They
have their own little arbitration tribunal
which sits at 24 hours’ notice. If the arbi-
trators disagree, the inspector of mines, an
experienced miner, respected and trusted by
both sides, gives the casting vote. Only
matters of interpretation are referred to
the Arbitration Court.
It is noteworthy that this system was
evolved by agreement between staunch
partisans of opposing political parties, not-
ably the late Bob Lynn, Nationalist M.L.C.,
head of the Collie coal interests, and A. A.
Wilson, Labor M.L.A. for Collie. It is a
pity there are not more men of their calibre
on both sides in the N. S. Wales industry.
It is a pity, also, that the remarks of Mr.
Davies afforded the chairman of the
Northern Collieries Association merely a
further opportunity to demonstrate his gifts
as a heckler. Davies made some honest
admissions that reflected on his side, and
these were eagerly seized upon. The mine-
owners admit nothing and deny everything
alleged against them, but a denial on every
count is often less effective in the court of
public opinion than a statement that at
least smacks of candor.
Sumasuma.
Sumasuma, who has been convicted of
fomenting the recent unpleasantness in
Rabaul, is by general consent a super-
nigger. The remarks made about him by
general-manager Jolley, of the Melanesia
co. (the chief witness for the prosecution),
read more, like testimonials to character
than hostile evidence.
Sumasuma, said Jolley, was “a magnificent
skipper and worker”; he earned £5 a month
and “deserved every penny of it”; he “had
taken the co.’s schooner all over the terri-
tory and could read the chart and compass”;
and so on. In his own small way Suma-
suma is a symbolical figure emphasising the
danger of a little knowledge to those who
impart it, and threatening Caucasian domi-
nance everywhere.
There are Sumasumas by the dozen in
India, Egypt and America, and the further
the art of education advances the more of
them there are to make demands which spell
ruin to the white man if they are granted
and anarchy if they are refused. The
Frankenstein of this century is Culture, and
its monster is a person very like Suma-
suma.
♦
Lost Ships and Skippers.
Dear Bulletin, —A careful examination
of the decision of the Marine Court
in the case of the Kanowna leaves
a very grave doubt as to what is
the true construction to be placed
upon the finding. As there must be a wide
difference between “failing to navigate with
proper and seamanlike care” and “error of
judgment,” a finding which conflicts these
two degrees of culpability must be open to
criticism.
It would seem that the Court was ham-
pered, and its judgment affected, by having
to answer questions put to it by some genius
in the Department of Navigation. Ques-
tion 2 ran: “Was the ship prior to the
casualty navigated with proper and sea-
manlike care?” The Court answered this
question in the negative. But it immedi-
ately proceeded to say: “The Court is of
opinion that the master committed an
error of judgment in navigating his ship
between the assumed s.-e. point of Wilson’s
Promontory and the point where his vessel
struck.” As this is a complete conception


A PHILANTHROPIC BIRD.
“The declaration of a rural basic wage, which N.S.W. farmers were awaiting in
fear and trembling, has been suspended, Justices Street and Cantor, of the Industrial
Commission, having decided to embark on a long inquiry concerning the non-rural
basic wage first. T take no part in the abandonment of the primary producers,’ said
Justice Piddington in dissenting from this decision.”
N.S.W. FARMER: “I believe the old bird thinks he’s doin’ me a favor by bein’ a
bird.”
of the incident so far as concerns the navi-
gation and seamanlike care brought to the i
task before the accident, it appears obvious
that the view taken by the Court is that the
master committed an error of judgment only
and was not guilty of the neglect of duty
implied in the answer to the question so
inaptly drafted by the department.
However, splitting straws about the terms
of the Court’s finding will not help the
unhappy navigator. His living is gone. The
masters of the lvaritane and the Riverina
were acquitted of all blame by the Courts :
which inquired into the loss of those vessels. <
They were at once abandoned by the
employer.
If one master deserves the sack for not
slowing down because his vision is obscured
by fog, then why are not all masters sacked
for this? On the occasion when the
Kanowna rounded Wilson’s Promontory
four other vessels experienced the
same conditions in the same locality.
None of them slowed down. All of
the masters accepted the potential risk
attached to maintaining speed in preference
to the certain risk involved in slowing down,
knowing only too well that the latter risk
is not limited to the ordinary risks of
navigation.
Is the master of the Kanowna less fit to
command a ship because, after 29 years of
immunity, he sustained an accident in the
circumstances described? In the course of
his 29 years’ service to his kind he navi-
gated through thousands of miles of danger-
ous water shrouded in fog. Apparently a
scapegoat must be found.
The shipowner wants the public to think
he is scrupulously oblivious to all self-
interest in the matter of what might be
termed the essentials of safe navigation.
Risks are ordinarily taken with his daily
concurrence. Yet when the public gaze is <
upon the result, he offers up in atonement
his little sacrifice—a shipmaster.—Yours, '
etc., W. G. Lawrence, general secretary of
the Merchant Service Guild.
Our Stipendiary Brick-dropper.
High-Commissioner Ryrie was only
running true to past form when he told
Englishmen in so many words to keep out -
of the back-blocks because of the special
facilities they offered for the manufacture
of inebriates. “The Old Brig.” bears the
reputation in London of being the Empire’s
champion brick-dropper.
His best-known feat in this line was per-
formed last year at a function designed
chiefly to promote British car-buying in
the Dominions. Our High Commissioner’s
contribution to the proceedings was a speech
in which he announced that British cars
were unsuited to out-back conditions, and
that he always used American cars on his
station.
A High Commissioner is in a quasi-
diplomatic position. He may not, like the
heads of certain European chancelleries, be
“sent abroad to lie for his country,” but it is
certainly desirable that he should refrain
from blurting out all the damning or irri-
tating truths about the Commonwealth
which come into his head. There are pro-
pagandists, political and commercial, in
every foreign city whose business it is to
do that. Britain is a place where Australia
needs a skilled defender at Australia House
more than a critic, however capable and
honest; and it is likely to need one even
more in the likely event of Labor being
returned to power at the coming general
elections. It is a point which the Govern-
ment of the day should bear well in mind
when the next High Commissioner is chosen.
*
Millions Going Begging.
The National Review for February, in
opposing the Channel tunnel scheme, made
the point that a tunnel would take many
Britons to the Continent and bring few
Continentals to Britain:—
“Let us frankly confess that England has
not the same glamor for Europe that foreign
watering-places have for us. Monsieur Poin-
care would never dream of coming to Bath,
though Mr. Baldwin, as a matter of course,
goes to Aix-les-Bains.”
Why does Britain—one of the loveliest and
most historically interesting countries in
the wrnrld, and the possessor of a most
orderly and amiable lot of inhabitants—miss
the cream of the world’s tourist trade year
after year? For three chief reasons: its
restrictions on liberty, its bad cooking, and
its costliness.
Australia has all the natural attractions
of European tourist resorts—except, of
course, ancient edifices and associations—
and it has several that they lack. Victoria
and N. S. Wales can offer winter sports
equal to those of the Engadine. Our racing
is as good as any in England or France.
No European country has trout-fishing to
approach that of Tasmania, or sea-fishing
to be compared with the tunny and Spanish
mackerel fishing which can be had along our
eastern coasts, or a natural speedway like
Lake Perkolili (W.A.). Australian surfing
is in a class by itself. All the States have
climates that, at one period of the year or
another, excel that of the Riviera and
Egypt at their best. Yet the annual tally
of foreigners who visit Australia for any
but business reasons is negligible.
Pleasure-seekers of average means—who
are the only sort worth aiming at on an
organised scale—avoid the Commonwealth
for three chief reasons: its restrictions on
liberty, its bad cooking and its costliness.
Such disadvantages are warranted to remove
the glamor from the most fascinating of
countries, as the present plight of England
demonstrates.
What are the Australian States going
to do. about it? Over £100,000,000 ot
tourists’ money is going begging every yet.:-,
and as transport facilities improve more and
more of this money is going to be available.
«
Lloyd George Learns from Lang.
Dear Bulletin, —The statement of Mr.
John Dalley, headed “The Waste Lands of
Britain” (B. 20/3/’29),_ shows a wide capa-
city for misunderstanding the situation. In
the main propositions on which Lloyd
George demands, and says he will secure,
restoration of the Freetrade-Liberal party to
power there is nothing about sowing Good-
wood racecourse or anybody’s ducal park
with vegetables. Therefore the fact that
these places are bare of vegetables now is
no specific reason why George should
succeed.
The Lloyd George idea is to take a leaf
out of the dog-eared volume of our own
Langs and Dooleys, and start a public-
works policy with big loans—flabbergasting
loans, in fact. The biggest single item, to
engage 375,000 men, is to be the making of
roads, though England, Scotland and Wales
have 179,000 miles of road already, most
of it very creditable. Another 60,000 are
to be busy at the “development of the tele-
phone system,” though there are over
1,500,000 ’phones in use now, and there is
no great difficulty in meeting the demand
for more. The rest of Lloyd George’s army
is to be employed on odd jobs.
They all represent things which are being
done already, and are constantly being done.
But George will hurry them up, will put to
work on them 611,000 mostly inexperienced
men, all of whom will have the best of rea-
sons for making the business spin out to
the limit, and will charge them to loans in-
stead of to revenue—always provided that
the glamor of his programme carries the
election. It is possible that it may, for it
is new and wild, and George is a spell-
binder, and he will have 500 Liberal and
Freetrade candidates to help.
Australia is doubly interested in the pos-
sible success of the Lloyd George crowd.
Should Freetrade come out on top it is
likely to lose some tariff preference. Pre-
ference is a rebate of perhaps 3d. in the
shilling of the normal duty, and where there
is no duty there can be no 3d. and no re-
bate. And something will happen in an-
other direction if Merlin’s descendant goes
on the market for huge loans with which
to carry out this programme, and more
loans to carry out the next programme when
the completion of the first one leaves his
611,000 on his hands again. With this new
competitor reaching out for money there is
likely to be a cold, cold time for Austra-
lian loans, both new and renewal. Yet
overseas loan money must be had unless
this country goes in for hard work and self-
denial, and cuts down its imports by some
tens of millions per annum.
If George has been moved by a study of
how long our Langs and Dooleys and
Colliers and Butlers have kept afloat by
working the loan and public-works razzle,
then Australia has done its respected parent
i a bad turn.—Yours, etc., Griffith Moses.
*
The Threat fi*om Asia.
Another good argument for cleaning up
Australian cities and keeping them clean
is the weekly health bulletin issued by the
League of Nations’ Eastern Bureau at
; Singapore.
In a recent number deaths from plague
1 were reported at Bombay, Madras, Rangoon,
Colombo and Bangkok; from smallpox
in Bombay, Calcutta, Madras (37), Ran-
; goon, Hong Kong (67), Shanghai, Canton
and Macao; and from cholera in Calcutta,
• Madras, Rangoon, Tuticorin, Pondicherry,
- Colombo and Bangkok,
i All these ports are in direct or semi-
; direct communication with Australia and
. diseases have a habit of slipping through
> even the best of quarantines.
Ostentation at Sea.
“Singemoine” : When “Fairplay” suggests
(13. 2/3/’29) that I “detest comfort in ocean
travel” he misrepresents me. I love com-
fort. My objection is to vulgarly expensive
display at sea.
A cartoon in the New York Life expresses
my point of view. It shows a passenger
on an Atlantic liner of the Berengaria type
being shown “the Louis Seize dining saloon”
(a vast place of rococo decorations and
innumerable waiters) and “the Pompeiian
bath” (a resort of pillared marble such as
Marcus Stone used to paint, only three,
or four times as big); and the same pas-
senger climbing a ladder to sleep in the
top berth of the old dog-box that habitual
travellers without the means to afford
“bridal suites” have been damning on all
the seven seas for years. I paid first saloon
fare for one of these mephitic kennels on
a crack liner only the other day.
The objection of middle-class travellers,
such as myself, to the introduction to Aus-
tralian sea-travel of private dining-rooms
and d la carle meals (in other words to
the whole ruinous paraphernalia of the
Ritz-Carlton type of restaurant) is that
wherever the system appears moderate,
much less cheap, living is made impossible.
Every middle-aged tourist has seen these
“improvements” come at British Continental
and even Australian hotels. The hotel,
whether in the West End of London, or on
the Italian lakes, or in Sydney, began by
quoting a fixed price for board and lodging;
then it charged for bed-and-breakfast, with
fixed prices for the other meals, which
brought the customer’s bill up by about 25
per cent.; and lastly came d la carte prices
for all meals, and a weekly bill swollen by
at least 150 per cent.
Two menus of luncheons consumed by
the writer at the same English hotel (1)
before and (2) after the war are signifi-
cant: —
No. 1:
Uysters.
Steak, Vegetables, Salad, etc.
Ice.
Coffee.
Price 3/-
No. 2•
Huitres au natural ~ .. 2/-
Filct mignon .. 3/6
Pommcs sautds .. .. .. 1/-
Saladc 1/-
Glace vanille .. 1/-
Cafe noir 6d.
Price 9/-
This represents, approximately, the differ-
ence between the price of meals on a liner
run on the old “all-in” basis and on one
where a la catte meals are served. And
naturally, drinks, tips, barbering and all
other services are in proportion.
I have a reason apart from finance for
regretting the passing of the old order at
sea so far as the Australian run is con-
cerned. The bad social money will drive
out the good. As on the trans-Atlantic
liners, British and American, the dull rich
will predominate and the clever young
Indian civil servants, soldiers, planters, etc.,
who did so much to relieve the monotony of
life on Australian mail ships will travel
by cheaper lines. And the millionaires
won’t even get real comfort. However
blatantly luxurious the different saloons
may be, the cabins, with the exception of
at most a dozen, will be as poky and ill-
ventilated as ever.
. ——♦
The Vanishing Cheap Coolie.
The suggestion of New Guinea planters
that the importation of indentured Asiatic
labor to work the plantations be permitted
is no new thing in that part of the world.
The Germans freely brought in Chinese
artisans, and when the rubber plantations
were beginning to make headway in Papua
there was a demand that the German
example should be copied there. A few
Javanese were actually admitted to teach
Papuans the process of tapping the rubber-
trees, but, their task completed, they were
sent home again.
It is very doubtful whether indentured
labor can nowadays be obtained from India.
Certainly the export of coolies has been
greatly restricted by the Indian Govern-
ment, and is permitted only under special
conditions. The Tamils, a race particularly
referred to by the New Guinea planters as
desirable importations, would be even more
difficult to obtain than others of their Indian
brethren. Many thousands of them are
employed in Ceylon and Malaya, largely
in skilled occupations. To these places free
passages are provided, while the men usually
work on a monthly engagement. They are
a people of independent character, and com-
mand high wages for Asiatic workers.
As for indentured labor from China it is
out of the question. Australia will never
permit it. New Guinea will have to rely
on its indigenous population for laboring
work. The obvious policy to pursue is the
encouragement of natural increase by better
sanitation, food supplies and medical super-
vision, and systematic training in agri-
culture. The Administration, like that of
Papua, is already doing good work along
those lines, and in the long run the policy
will pay the planter and trader better than
any other.


OAEL/e
ClAi. • RESERVE
- -■••' -
Motvß Whisky
RED, WHITE and BLUE
WHISKY
Gaelic Special Reserve
DEARER— BUT BETTER
ORME, KEXGWIN & CO., LTD.
269-271 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN AGENTS: JAMES HENTY & CO., 499 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: B. SEPPELT & SONS, LTD., 444 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
qT^ELIq
reserve
m
WKisKV
POLITICAL
POINTS
“Good ole Piddo,” of the N.S.W. Indus-
rial Commission, has blossomed again. The
other two members of the Commission over-
ruled “Piddo” recently on some matter, and
that individual got wild, and mumbled some-
thing about “an ill-omened decision to expedite
the attempt in N.S.W. to lower the standard
of living by judicial action.” Opposition-
leader Lang quoted this in the House, not as
evidence that “Piddo” was in the wrong
job, but as evidence that it is a shameful
thing to have anybody on the Bench who
doesn’t agree with “Piddo.”
Arthur Blackburn,
the Adelaide lawyer
who won the V.C. at
Pozieres and had a
term in the S. Aus.
Parliament as member
for Sturt, has started
a Political Reform
League in association
with other young
South Australians
who are dissatisfied
with the way .things
are going. The League
thinks there is too
much Government in-
terference in matters
with which Govern-
ment is not capable of
dealing, one result
being over-taxation
and another an indus-
trial situation which,
as Blackburn says,
“gives people a head-
ache.” It plans to
run candidates who
are against all this
meddling, so, of course,
the other organisations
Captain Blackburn,
V.C.
have vowed its destruction.
Among the new Labor members in the
House of Reps., Curtin, of Fremantle, has
made the best impression and Beasley, of
West Sydney, the worst. Curtin has brains
and knows how to behave; Beasley is bump-
tious, suspicious, ill-informed and' conceited
—in short, a typical product of the Sydney
Trades and Labor Council. On the last
day of the session Bruce was provoked by
the fellow’s garrulous malevolence into say-
ing that “if the hon. member’s mind is
poisonous he need not be always poisoning
this House with it.” A murmur of satis-
faction went up from the Ministerial benches,
and Labor veterans would have joined in it
had they dared.
After declaring at its conference in Mel-
bourne that it would welcome a rapprochement
with the Country Progs., the Vic. Cocky
party appointed a committee of five to meet
a similar number of Progs, at a peace parley.
But it says it won’t give up the right to
make a pact with another party— i.e., the
Nationalists—to carry on by means of a
Composite Cabinet.
Ilertzog’s preference treaty with Fritz is
giving that wily Afrikander a lot of trouble.
It has gained additional unpopularity from
the fact that 10 railway engines ordered
from Germany have had to be practically re-
built in South Africa in order to make them
workable. The Senate is against the treaty,
and a Constitutional argument is raging as
to whether the Senate’s consent is necessary.
If it is decided in favor of the Senate, the
treaty will have to be submitted to a joint
sitting of both Houses. That will take time,
and the general election is due in June.
Fired, perhaps, by the example of Billy
Hughes, A. ,C. Elphinstone, formerly the
Nat. member for Oxley (Q.), told a meeting
of constituents the other day that the Nation-
alists were hopeless, and that in future he
would sit as a Centre party. There being
only one member, the new party should be
united. This is more than can be said for
the other parties now in the business.
Health Minister
Stallworthy (M.L.).
Maoriland, like N.
S. Wales and Vic., is
uneasy about its hos-
pitals. An overhaul of
the system is fore-
shadowed by A. J.
Stallworthy, the new
Minister of Health
Payment of members
of the “honorary ’
medical staff; the
establishment
of special wards in
which paying patients
can be accommodated,
and the institution of
some sort of hospital
insurance are among
the matters under con-
sideration.
The N.S.W. Leg.
Assembly got a little
more disorderly than
usual the other day.
Warnings by the
Speaker proved in-
effectual, and two of the most blatant
specimens were ejected. Thereupon the
House grew strangely silent, and Pre-
mier Bavin spoke for ten minutes
without an interruption—something so un-
usual that it made the poor man feel
quite uncomfortable. If the Standing Orders
were amended to provide that a member ex-
pelled or suspended must lose his claim to
salary during his period of absence it might
be easier to maintain, order. The hoodlum
who disturbs any other sort of meeting,
public or private, renders himself liable to
a fine, and there is no good reason why the
political hoodlum who obstructs the business
of the State should enjoy exemption.
Ex-Prime Minister Hughes in his best
foi’m making a few remarks about Trea-
surer Page :
When the limits of distortion have been reached
he falls back on personal abuse, and when he does
this he can never get far away from the operating-
table. Its sickening odors cloud his imagination.
Its gruesome sights obsess his mind. His verbiage
reeks with the stench of putrescence.
The operating-table and -room are, as a
matter of fact, scrupulously clean, and much
more free from odors than people might
imagine, while the last things to be found
thereabouts are putrefying bodies which have
been overlooked in odd corners. Hughes may
picture a skilled surgeon as a large, infected
creature who bangs dead meat about with
an axe, but that is his fervid Welsh imagi-
nation.
On Thursday a score or more occupants
of the public gallery added their voices to
the N.S.W. Leg. Assembly uproar and
drowned with their interjections the remarks
of speakers with whose views they disagreed.
Before being ejected one of them shouted
a threat that he and his mates would “come
here one day with rifles and clear you out.”
The Melbourne bomb-throwing showed what
dangerous forces are apt to be stirred up by
examples of and incitements to lawlessness,
but the lesson has been wasted on a lot of
Labor politicians and union officials in
N. S. Wales.
After the 1927 election the Irish Free
State Ministry had 61 reliable friends and
57 enemies in the Lower House, the rest
being mixed. The position was lately so
dubious that breathless interest was taken
in the retention of the North Dublin seat
at a by-election. It was retained, but by
a rather unsatisfactory majority. Now the
Irish police are out again on the weary trek
for the “suppression of lawlessness” and are
making arrests on a large scale. Documents
have been found which contain plans for the
destruction of Ministers and their property,
and the blowing up of theatres and other
crowded resorts of harmless people who only
want to obey the law and be left alone.
Premier Bavin has his troubles, but they
might be worse. If prohibition had been
carried in N. S. Wales the Government might
be facing a compensation bill of £20.000.000,
and instead of the State showing 13.000 more
crimes in 192 S than in 1927 it might have
shown 33,000 more by reason of bootlegging
and its concomitants. Also, no one is spending
a million or two in devastating Centennial
Park, as proposed, to make a Great Exhibi-
tion or Perspiration, or something.
' At Beechworth (Vic.) 23 years ago Pre-
mier Bent described himself as a “safe
socialist.” The label was recalled by Pre-
mier McPherson when visiting the Rubicon
hydro-electric works last week, and he said
he wanted to paste it on himself so far as
electricity generation and distributing works
were concerned. McPherson was in the Law-
son Ministry when it began the electricity
undertaking at Morwell. lie gave Arthur
Robinson, now retired on his political laurels,
credit for being the Ministerial driving force
of that project, with John Monash as the
managing director who got things done.
An advertisement in the Government
Gazette calls for a secretary to Australia’s
Trade Commissioner in Canada, wages £624,
with £lBO extra if accompanied by his lawful
wife and family, plus £39 a year each for
progeny under 16. Also there are to be good
chances of promotion, for Bruce "believes
that eventually Australia will follow in
Canada’s footsteps and have a corps of trade
representatives scattered about the world.”
It is a pity that Bruce’s Government doesn’t
begin its imitation by getting more things
for the Commissioners to sell —by the estab-
lishment of more factories, for example.
Australia has little to offer either Canada
or the United States, where it also keeps a
trade excrescence, except commodities which
they produce themselves,
A point stressed by defenders of the
foreign-loan policy is that Australia had all
its railways to build, which was a great
work, and that in this respect it started from
scratch. The truth is that all the world
had its railways to build in the same cen-
tury, and all started from scratch. Bri-
tain’s beginning is generally fixed at 1829,
and the U.S.A. opened its first line in 1830.
Telegraphs are usually dated as from 1837
and telephones came later, so Australia got
the same start as the rest. The outstanding
difference between this country and Britain,
also the U.S.A., is that it constructed its big
works with foreign-loan money.
It was found that the “secret” ballot of
the timber-workers re the strike was going
to be systematically nullified by a high-
handed order that every unionist must vote
in the presence of a union official. So the
Government fixed up a counter-decree that
the man who shows his ballot-paper to an
official shall be fined £lO, and that the same
shall happen to the official who demands to
see it. The unionist who refuses to show
his paper will probably be suspended or ex-
pelled, while the official who demands to see
it will most likely have his fine charged
up to the union. And if 50 unionists refuse
to show and are fined £lO that will be £5OO,
while the official who included the whole 50
in one demand for a show-down will plead
that it is all one offence, value £lO. To be
consistent the free laborer who is knocked
down and jumped on should get the same sen-
tence as the man who jumped on him.
James Kell, sometime governor of the
Commonwealth Bank, gave up a good job
carrying pension rights to
join Denison Miller in estab-
lishing the institution, and
served it faithfully for 16
years—most of them very
exacting years. Brennan,
M.H.R., has
tinea rthed
the fact that
Kell is draw-
in g £lOOO
p.a. under
the Common-
wealth su-
p e r a n nua-
tion scheme,
and, in flat
contempt of
“Labor prin-
ciples,” is a
director of a
Frank Brennan, M.H.R.
‘‘capitalistic” bank into the bargain. Bren-
nan moved the adjournment of the House
the other day to call attention to the “scan-
dal”—he didn’t say it was that, but the cus-
tomary ass did. About the same time ex-
Premier Lang was roaring in Macquarie-
street about the iniquity of raising the
N.S.W. Auditor-General’s salary from £l5OO
p.a. to £2OOO. Presumably this sort of thing
goes down with the mob, and, unfortunately,
the Federal and N.S.W. Labor parties seem
incapable, as parties, of rising above the
mob’s level.
One of the petty shows that N.S.W. is
busy on is an eight-mile dead-end railway
from Tempe, which is up against Marrick-
ville and St. Peters, and has rail and tram
connections already, to East Hills, on the
Georges River. The line isn’t expected to
pay expenses, but it produced a very angry
deputation. This stated that the making of
the money-loser had taken three acres from
a poultry-farmer and one acre from a widow
who farms 74 acres, besides cutting the 64
acres in two. and had ruined the business in
each case. These and others of their kind had
been told that they were amply compensated
by the existence of the railway and the pas-
sage of an occasional train, but they deny the
compensation. Minister Buttenshaw, who
has an intense desire to do the right thing,
decided there and then on a scheme applic-
able to the whole State for taxing the man
whose property is improved by a new line
to compensate the one who only finds it a
knock-out. So another department may be
looked for, and there will be more complica-
tions, especially if the reform is retrospective.
Still crusty because a Nationalist instead
of a Nat.-Cocky Cabinet was formed by
McPherson in Vic., John Allan told the
Cocky conference in Melbourne that neither
“courtesy” nor “diplomacy” was in the Pre-
mier’s lexicon. He accused McPherson of
having sniped at him from the platform when
he was head of the Allan-Peacock Govern-
ment. If John doesn’t mind he will lay him-
self open to the counter-accusation that
“vindictiveness” is writ large in his dic-
tionary, and that “forgiveness” has been
obliterated.
State Attorney-General Boyce refuses to
believe that N.S.W. could, get all the mpney
it wants for hospitals
by running a Govern-
ment lottery like
Queensland’s Golden
Casket, and to show
that his incredulity is
warranted he quotes
some Casket figures
for the latest recorded
year. Tickets brought
in £886,250; £528,000
went in prizes; ex-
p e n s e 8 ate up
£IOS,OOO-odd (there to
a staff of 147) ; and
£247,764 was paid to
the Home Secretary,
who distributes the,
hospital grants. A
lot of the ticket-money
came from N.S.W.,
and if the Ma State
Government competed
with the Queensland
show it is doubtful
whether there would
be £200.000 p.a. net
for either. N.S.W.
could get more than
that by taxing the
N.S.W. Attorney-
General Boyce.
cheaper variety of amusements, as Westralia
and S. Aus. do. Australia is already over-
burdened with devices for inducing people to
believe that they can get rich without work-
ing and saving.
The Victorian Railways Union has put
the sign of the cuss on 12 Labor members,
including ex-Premiers Hogan and Prender-
gast, and ex-Ministers Tunnecliffe, Lemmon,'
Cain, Webber, Bailey and Slater. When the
gross takings of the Government railways
dropped by over £BOO,OOO in a year, and a
crisis developed, it was considered necessary
either to reduce wages, for the time at least,
or to reduce the staff. The 12 are said to
have favored wage-reduction, though _it
didn’t come off. Hence the row. The union
doesn’t say that the Hogan Government
wasn’t justified by the urgency of the case ;
only that its members’ private interests come
first. Curiously enough, the most persistent
reducers of wages are union bosses them-
selves, who think little of taking 10s. a week
off a worker’s pay for a strike contribution.
Vic. Health Commission wakes up
occasionally. The other day it protested
against placing the proposed new saleyards
at South Kensington. The trouble is that
Governments have had small respect for the
Commission since Wallace Ross recommended
its abolition. Laborite Beckett, when Minis-
ter for Health, submitted a bill to substitute
a Ministry of Health for the moribund body,
but the inconsiderate Assembly shifted the
Government before it could get a clear run
for the measure.
Lloyd George expresses hopes of a dizzy
triumph for his party at the coming elec-
tion. It proposes to run over 500 candidates,
which is very different from the feeble effort
of recent years. George promises to prac-
tically cure the unemployed trouble within
a year of assuming office. His principal
specifics are a return to Freetrade, “re-
organisation of the transport system,” the
provision of “a national system of roads,”
though the present roads seem numerous
enough, the “revival of the country-
side,” better marketing, the drainage of
water-logged land to promote cultiva-
tion, the planting of forests if there
is room for them without squashing
the cultivation, and the stimulation (it isn’t
stated how) of rural industries, which pre-
sumably include cultivation, forests and
some sheep. He is winning a few by-
elections, and already sees himself Prime
Minister again.
YEAST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“At. the Victorian Country party conference Mr.
Hunt said that the Prime Minister had the right
man by hia side to teach him country conditions.
A little drop of yeast would leaven a whole lump
of dough, and that was what their members were in
Parliament for.”
You worthy souls whose speech vociferous
Through seven Parliament’ry halls reverbs
What time you stress the needs and claims
of Rus
As more material than those of Urbs,
Bethink, however few you may comprise,
You make the legislative bread to rise.
Page, Hill and Thompson, Gregory and
Prowse,
Whose throbbing souls by noble zeal are
torn
For those whose lines are cast ’mid placid
cows
And patient sheep and fields of waving
corn,
Though loaves of laws may lack your flour,
at least
You bring the master-baker Bruce the yeast.
Those Treasury benches on your very own
You may not hope to capture or to fill ;
To boss the show’s a thing you’ve never
known,
And it’s improbable you ever will.
Your utmost is to have a grand vizier
With the first call upon his Sultan’s ear.
Still, you’ve a raison d'etre, a metier,
A mission. Though the trombone and
bassoon,
The fife and clarionet you may not play,
You have a chance to ginger up the tune.
Out with your chests! You are the yeast,
you know,
That leavens lumps of Nationalist dough.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Sol Malaprop”: A very old lesson was
repeated in the case of Alister Clark, sen-
tenced to death at Sydney for the murder
of his wife. The woman was in hospital,
where she died from the effects of arsenical
poisoning. Her husband visited her fre-
quently and brought her things to eat, and
it was noted that arsenic was found in his
coat pocket, where it might mix easily with
cakes and chocolates, while it wasn’t found
in the pockets of any other handy or pro-
bable person. Then a great deal was made
of the widower’s very prompt marriage with
another girl—an acquaintance of some stand-
ing. The police force has always viewed
this kind of coincidence with suspicion. It
was the indecent haste of Henry VIII.’s
marriage with Jane Seymour that convinced
pebple definitely of his responsibility for
the death of his first wife,. Anne Boleyn.
Otherwise some credence might have been
FAMILY HISTORY.
GRANDMA: “Yes, Sylvia, the night-you were born a raging gale was blowing
SYLVIA: “Oh, Granny, you never told me before that I was a windfall
gained for the theory that the unfortunate
lady cut off her own head by accident. David
had a very similar trouble over the disappear-
ance of his seventh or eighth wife’s first
husband.
*** • *
“Spargo”: The modern wine-shop is a
garisli place; hardly one remains of the well-
ordered cellars which were to be found in
odd corners of pre-war Sydney. There \va>-
one with a Bohemian clientele in a lane off
George-street, where the seats were small
barrels, the light dim, the flagged floor saw-
dusted! and the wine drawn from honest
wooden spigots “clutched firm in barrel’s
maw,” as the poet has it. It was good wine,
too. Before the war the Germans held the
Sydney wine-bar trade, and the customer
fared better, for the Teuton mostly disdains
the art of faking wines, in which.the Latin
is skilled.
“Oxmead”: Peak Hill (W.A.), when it
was in its brief heyday as a gold producer
30 years ago—it was here that Governor
Jerry Smith was entertained at a banquet
served on plates of gold before the metal
went to swell the monthly returns —possessed
the quaintest-looking bench of magistrates
in Australia. It consisted of the warden and
two honoraries, and there were but three
eyes among the trio. Each man wore a
black shade over the missing organ, and
when all three were on the Bench together
the effect was remarkable. But Justice was
probably no more one-eyed than in other
goldfields settlements, although one Solon
certainly managed to earn an unenviable
notoriety by dismissing with a caution a
man whom the police had charged with being
of unsound mind.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: Sydney's Civic Com-
missioners have been probing into the cost
of maintaining the municipal free baths m
the Domain, and have discovered that the
institution is also regarded as a free laun-
dry, not only by those who spend their nights
under the wide and starry sky, but by dwel-
lers in rooms where there are no conveniences
for scrubbing and drying clothes. All that
most of these patrons of municipal enterprise
have to wash is what they are wearing, so
they have a swim whilst the garments are
drying, with the result that the galleries of
the baths often resemble a back yard on
washing day. Free soap, although intended
originally for skin-cleaning purposes, has
been regarded as a perquisite of these washer-
men ever since the baths were opened; it
would be a doubtful economy for Civic Com-
missioners who have initiated a campaign for
a cleaner Sydney to cut it out.
>|c * * *
“Mulgo”: Some people can’t travel in
comfort with their backs to the engine (or
whatever it: may be) ; even in trams the seats
that face the driver always fill first. Ilm
other day I saw a girl who was sitting “b’ck
to front’’’ become sick after negotiating a few
twisty streets. The conductor advised her to
sit on the opposite scat. “What difference
will that make?” she asked. “Makes a lot
of difference with some people, ’ he said.
“You try it.” She did, and quickly re-
covered. According to conductors, a good
many passengers get “tram sick” without
knowing what’s the matter with them or
guessing the cause. A man who has been
mixing his drinks has special reasons for
being careful which way he sits..
* * =i= *
“Hugh Stone”: From where I sit I can
See, riding at anchor on the smooth waters
of Port Hunter (N.S.W.), the squat outline
of the pilot boat Birubi, built further up
stream by the Government employees of
Walsh Island. Right opposite is the vessel’s
old rival, the Ajax, which for years went
out in all sorts of weather either to bring
vessels in or for life-saving purposes. All
her glory has gone: she is a sheer bulk,
high and dry on a slip, a bare hull waiting
further ignominy at the hands of the ship-
breakers. Yet the lines of the old pilot, bat-
tered as she is, are far more graceful than
those of her dumpy successor; the Ajax
still recalls the sailing vessels that lined
Circular Quay in the ’seventies when I was
a Pitt-street schoolboy.
* * * *
“Uramao”’: The recent earth tremor that
rumbled among Maoriland’s Southern Alps
hurt nobody bodily. It is rather remarkable
that in a country so often referred to as
“Shaky" and "Shivery” there have been only
seven people killed in 80 years as a result
of 'quakes. A toppling wall caused three
deaths in Wellington in 1848; in the same
city seven years later a chimney was shaken
down on another victim; a,child wms killed
when the earth billowed at Cheviot (Canter-
bury) in 1901 ; a Maori sustained fatal in-
juries from some falling material from the
Masterton Post Office in 1913; a year later
a shepherd at Gisborne was the last, re-
corded victim of an earthquake. Insurance
companies are less concerned about earth-
quake risks in M.L. than snakebite in Aus-
tralia.
•!' *i* V v
“The Rumpus”: Somebody has been blam-
ing the spread of Bolshevism for the occa-
sional tendency of marine stewards to heave
unwashed crockery and soiled cutlery over-
board. Actually, the practice of casting
eating gear through the nearest porthole was
started over 30 years ago by way ot retalia-
tion against the shipowners for imposing a
charge of three shillings per man per montli
for breakages and losses, the money to be
deducted from the steward’s wages. Some
of the aggrieved attendants were determined
to see they got their money’s worth. In
my plate-juggling days I was one of them.
QUITE A DIFFERENT MATTER.
“I don't like Horace’s ways.”
“No, dear. But just think of his means!”
“Murkah”: The Kelly gang were respon-
sible for at least one reform in banking
methods. When they robbed the.Euroa (Vic.)
branch of the National Bank in December,
1878, the proceeds of the hold-up went into
immediate circulation. Debts owing by
friends and relatives of the bushrangers were
discharged in new notes, and some of the
plunder was actually paid into accounts at
the despoiled bank. That they were the stolen
notes was obvious, but as no record was kept
at that time of the running numbers of notes
forwarded to country branches, no prose-
cutions could be launched. Had the num-
bers been known the notes would have been
worse than valueless —their very possession
would have spelt danger. No time was lost
by the banks in caulking this leak.
* ❖ * *
“C.Q.”: The correct solution of Leslie
Williams’s prolonged disappearance was not
loss of memory (B. 20/3/’29). At least, he
has never claimed it was. In fact, he admits
that he stayed in Melbourne for a while
reading in the papers the story of the hue
and cry after his dead body. The police
consider the incident closed, but it is a moot
question whether a man who allows the
country to spend a lot of public money look-
ing for him isn’t liable for some of the cost.
Also, there is the case of the unfortunate
man who was held ostensibly on a charge
of vagrancy but really because he was sus-
pected of having had a hand in the dis-
appearance of the missing motorist. It looks
as if he had a claim’ for substantial recom-
pense against the alleged corpse.
$ * * *
“Caveman”: At the decaying mining town
of Riverton, on the West Coast (M.L.), I
counted 13 licensed hotels in active commis-
sion, though the population can’t be much
over a thousand. But at the entirely decayed
mining town of the Lyell, on the Buller
River, I found two pubs and nothing else.
The town has faded out altogether, and the
Bungs rely for custom on passing motors, the
road being the main track from Nelson to
the coast.
sj; 'i" '**
“Sixenate”: It happened in a Sydney
court, where tne magistrate had _ patient 1 \
listened to a tedious and rather irrelevant
hard-luck story. At the close he cut in
crisply with “Fined two pounds.” ‘Your
worship,” said the delinquent earnestly,
“I’d like very much to do so, but I can t.’
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Glenelg (S.A.) is busy unload-
ing white elephants. The old baths, separate
for men and women, were practically ruined
when mixed bathing from the beach came
into vogue, and definitely ruined by storms,
till they merely cumbered the shore. More
serious is the “breakwater jetty, a long
curving structure designed to carry supplies
for the breakwater and begun in 1914. Ln
July 1917, there was a local record in storms,
and the contractors, saying that they had been
misinformed as to local conditions, retired
from the job. The special pier has since had
no excuse for existence, and, being an obvious
menace to all shipping, is .at last to come
down. , J
‘‘Bert the Carpenter”: The youngsters
next door levied toll on my workshop for
“two bits of wood, four feet long,
with a groove in one edge”; “a lump ot
jarrah”; “two bits of wood with a hole in
the middle this big,” and finally “this tin full
of sawdust.” In due course word reached
me that a juvenile syndicate had been can-
vassing the neighborhood for orders to de-
capitate fowls and return the carcases at a
penny a time. Investigation disclosed m the
adjacent cow-paddock a miniature guillotine,
made from the timber I had supplied, with
a piece of an old chaff-cutter blade for a
knife. The designer was there, too ; he cou-
fided to me that he had got the idea from
an illustrated article on the French method
of capital punishment. At that moment two
more members of the syndicate arrived with
a live duck, so that I was enabled to see a
practical demonstration. The victim was
placed in an old basket, its head drawn through
a hole and the lunette clasped on its neck.
A touch on the trigger caused the knife to
drop, the severed head rolled away and the
corpse bled into the tin of sawdust. “Kills
’em quick ’n’ lively,” the operator pointed out
with conscious pride, “ V always cuts oil:
their heads with one smack.” I further
learned from the business manager that the
firm had “made one ’n’ tuppence las’ week
by fixin’ up three turkeys, a coupler hens n
seven roosters —one old tart gave us a tray
bit ” *
“Bumpkin” : Justice Isaacs disallowed the
appeal by John Holt, the Victorian horse-
trainer, against income-tax assessments
under the Wartime Profits Act. The scope
of the inquiry went back to 1915. Holt
admitted that 'in one year his assets bumped
up £24,000, some of it representing volun-
tary gifts from persons who had successfully
backed horses on his advice. He himself had
about 1500 bets a year and appears to have
shown a steady profit. In addition, he
played poker once a week, and . cleaied
£3OO or £4OO per annum. His con-
tention was that these sums were not
profits derived from his business, and
were, therefore, not taxable. There are
thousands of industrious citizens who would
be only too glad to draw £3OO out of a
pastime, even if they had to call it a
business.
=i= * * *
“Finn”: Dressing-up for the inspector of
schools takes various forms. There is a
Mallee (Vic.) departmental officer who never
tires of dilating on the good influence of
aesthetic surroundings on the lives of children.
Once he censured a teacher for the lack of
ornament in the schoolroom. “The depart-
ment won’t provide decorations, and I can t
afford to buv them,” was the defence.
“Others manage it,” retorted the inspector.
“At X’s school yesterday, there were curtains,
pictures, pot-plants and vases that did me
good to see. I’m free to-morrow, and 1H
drive you out there. It’ll give you a standard
to work up to.” In due time the inspector
and visitor entered X s school. But
there wasn’t even a vase of flowers to be
seen ; the decorations had all been returned
to neighboring farmhouses as soon as the
coast seemed clear.
* * * *
“Medicurse”: “Meddik” (B. 13/3/29)
notwithstanding the middle-ear malady of
W. M. Marks’, M.P.. may be traceable to
the war. I know (only too well) of a case
of middle-ear inflammation due to war in-
jury. A piece of shrapnel lodged in the
mastoid region just behind the ear and
caused no trouble till nine years had passed ;
then suppuration began, with, at first, acute
inflammation and clironic inflammation fol-
lowing.
* * *
“Oran”: We were waiting for the tram
in George-street. Sydney, when a heavy
shower sent most of the intending passengers
to the lee side of a near-by bank. While we.
were crouching against the wall a furious
wind arose, but above the gale the voice or
a woman in an elegant hat could be heard
in fierce protest. “How dare they t she
demanded, pointing to a patch of yellow
and white on the pavement. How dare they
throw eggs out of the windows? Just then
there was another faint splash, and a man
strolled out to the kerb to investigate the
upper windows. They were all closed, but
under the eaves an agitated pigeon was
struggling to restore the rums of her nest.
MARCH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ 'Tis March,” he said, “and a world away
The waking springtime its beauty spills.
What was it Tennyson called it, ( eh?
‘The roaring moon of daffodils.’
’Tis oh to be back by Thames or Tay,
On Norfolk broads or in Mendip lulls!
And the old man murmured: “Aye, aye, my
lad,
'Tis the month, I mind, when the hares go
mad.”
“They come,” said the first, “ere the swallow
dares
Or the primrose peeps from the mossy dell,
The daffydowndillies (not the hares),
The glorious Grecian asphodel, (
And you wake some morning unawares
“All that,” said the other, “poets tell.
But why”—and he paused to drain liis cup—
“ Why do you reckon the hares play up?’
“Some value higher what April brings,’
Said the younger exile. “They pine and
parch
For the bud that sprouts and the leaf that
springs
On oak or poplar, bn beech or larch,
For the lilting note that the chaffinch sings,
But give me leonine, lamblike March
When off come winter’s fetters and locks!”
“And the hares,” said the oldster, “do their
blocks.”
“ ’Tis March,” he said, “when the old land
waits
And feels it coming, the springtime’s stir;
There’s never a poet but knows the date
When daffydowndillies come to her.
’Tis March, when the wild things meet and
mate,
When Love’? spell lies on feather and fur.”
“Too right,” said the other, “and willy-niily
The merry brown hares grow daffy and dilly.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Tabuc”: Is this a record for husband-
capture? A woman appeared recently be-
fore a N.S.YV. Court and admitted the fol-
lowing facts: At the age of 19 she married
and soon afterwards separated from her hus-
band. _ She married again, and was prosecuted
for bigamy, convicted and sentenced to six
months’ hard labor. On her release she
ignored her previous experience, and tripped
to the altar with a third mate. After a brief
period he deserted her, and the lady went
through the marriage ceremony with a fourth
spouse. She was not yet 24!
* * * *
“Mends” : Mention of the reluctance shown
by some Diggers to wearing medal ribbons
(B. 13/3/’29) conjures up the round, jovial
face and twinkling eyes of Padre O’Flynn.
Fie appeared in a New Year’s honor list
among the. recipients of the D. 5.0., and,
knowing his ultra-democratic views, I was
not surprised to meet him in Piccadilly some
three months later in a ribbonless tunic.
“ ’Tis not for the loikes o’ me to go struttin’
round wid hits o’ ribbon stiekin’ to
me,” he grinned when charged with being
A SAFE SIZE.
“I’d hill you, you beast, if I only knew how to net rid of the
body!”
incorrectly dressed. “Look here, Padre.” I
countered, “what did you give the Times to
put it in?” “Put pwhat in?” “Why, this
furphy about your getting the D.S.O. i knew
it was a lie when I read it.” “Hould on
now. Mark toime a bit!” he cried, and pro-
duced the bauble from his hip pocket. “Take
an eyeful of that, me bhoy!” he chuckled,
snapping open the case. “ ’Tis the thing
itself, just as the King stuck it on me.”
❖ ❖ ❖ *
“X.D.”: The evildoer who leaves evidence
about because his vanity forbids him to
destroy it cropped up in Melbourne recently.
A man arrested on a charge of vagrancy was
found to have a diary in his possession in
which were carefully entered the details of
various lawless projects. Among the entries
were: “Had a look at a few houses but could
not do the job alone” ; “Carted tools around
—dangerous”; “Nearly got caught by patrol
last night—lucky.” Another was: “Do not
know what to do. Think I will get a car
and do a job.” He got the job—at his
, Majesty’s gaol.
* * * *
“Nikko”: Shortly after her arrival on
Monday morning, Miss Smith, our junior
typist, aged 15, began to sniff dismally; in-
quiry brought the tearful confession that she
had lost her engagement ring. We all joined
in the search for the missing token, described
as a lovely ruby and diamond circlet, the only
absentee being Tommy, the shock-headed
office boy, aged 16, who was out on a bill-
delivering expedition. Miss Smith’s heels
were protruding from under the stationery
cupboard and the chief clerk and I were
minutely examining the w.p.b. when the boss
came in, and on hearing of the tragic occur-
rence began graciously peering into likely-
looking crevices. Suddenly came a glad shriek
from Miss Smith as she struggled to her feet,
placed the ring on her inky finger and
resumed her work. “I never heard such
nonsense as a youngster of that age being
engaged,” muttered the boss to us; “who is
the man anyway?” When the query was
passed on to the betrothed she blushingly
confessed that Tommy and she had become
engaged at the pictures on the Saturday.
The boss was about to explode when he
caught a glimpse of the ring and stopped.
It was a bauble with outsize gems, such as
one finds in a jewel-packet or buys for a
shilling at any brummagem counter. Our
employer’s frown turned to a grin as we all
faded away to our neglected duties.
* * * *
< “Blink Bonnie”: There are few funerals
witnessed at the Great Barrier Island
(M.L.), hut such as there are go by water
(B. 27/2/’2S)). Recently I saw one heading
for the small island graveyard at Port Fitz-
roy, the chief centre of settlement. The coffin
was on a rowboat, and the mourners were
in launches. The island of graves is a mere
dot in one of the finest but most isolated
harbors in the world. The only other ceme-
teries are scattered plots in which lie the
dead from the lost Wairarapa, wrecked on
the Barrier in ’93.
* * * *
“Tee Essbie”: Scriptural texts are going
out of fashion as mural decorations,
save perhaps in schoolrooms, but the other
day I came across one in an unexpected
place, a navvy’s six-by-eight. It was from
Proverbs, black-lettered and with a gaudy
floral design, and ran : “It is better to dwell
in a corner of the house-top than with a
brawling woman and in a wide house.” 1
took it that the hewer of stone had been out
of luck in his conjugal relationships.
* * * *
“P.M.”: I was driving a cream-waggon
when I met old Bid,dy Robbins, who still
retains some local reputation as an Amazon.
“Young feller,” said Biddy as she handed me
her billy, “see you look after this cream.
The last driver that was on spilt half of it
and I got booked short weight. First time I
meet him I’ll scratch his eyes out.”
I ventured that Biddy was getting a bit old
for fight. “I’m failin’ a bit at 83,” she
admitted, “but I was a goer in my young
days. Remember the big railway strike?
They tried to take a trainload of coal out
of Korumburra, and the mob was pelting
coal at the police. I ’ad three beers and a
rum in, and I fretworked the hides of two
Johns witli a rusty bike-chain. Them wuz
the days!” And the old lady sighed remi-
niscently.
“Grafton”: Ogilvie,
of pioneer fame, built
on the Upper Clar-
ence (N.S.W.) Aus-
tralia’s only dinkum
castle. He got his in-
spiration from the
Moorish castles in
Spain. The spacious
pile, with its massive
walls, flat roofs, deep
colonnades and foun-
tains, its long facade,
towers, battlements
and portico with Doric
columns, has a curious
effect in its surround-
ings. A man instinc-
tively looks for a
winding cavalcade of
knights returning
home, or a fleet of
high - beaked galleys
sneaking around the
river bend with evil
intent. Inside are a
spacious entrance hall,
reception- and draw-
ing-rooms, a fine main
staircase and library,
many bedrooms and,
needless to add, exten-
sive wine-cellars. A
billiard-room is the
only thing to shock
you back to the pre-
sent. Thousands of
tons of stone went to
the building, besides
bricks; the timber is
mostly grey gum, with
the ceilings and panel-
ling of cedar—all got
on the run. It took
two years to build and
cost fSOOO. The castle
passed from the
Ogilvie family’s hands
some three years back, when Ynlg'ilbar sta-
tion was sold to the Morrisseys.
* * * *
Fong bhui”: A Frenchman has arrived
in Shanghai with a system for teaching
Chinese in eight hours. It would be a
miraculous achievement, for Chinese has
approximately 45,000 characters, all need-
ing tp be memorised if a complete know-
ledge of the .language is desired. The
nearest approach to an alphabet is the
117 radicle.s under which all words are
marshalled in the dictionaries. Some of these
have 17 strokes, every one of which must
be written in the right order and up or
down, as fixed by immemorial habit. There
ar e two forms of numerals, one for cheques
and the other for ordinary needs. There
are 400 sounds to be apportioned amongst
the 45,000 characters, so a sound may mean
anything up to 150 different things. Also,
each character is provided with a tone, and
there are six to ten tones, according to the
district. If you order shaving-water in the
upper rising tone, your “boy” is liable to
fetch you a singing girl in the lower level
tone. Frenchmen, anyhow, are the worst
linguists in China and Englishmen come
next. Germans are pretty good. The best
speaker and writer I have met was a Vic-
torian stationed in a barge of the Chinese
Customs near Soochow. He could even
swear in the language with a fluency that
earned him the respect of rebel generals.
* * * *
“Spare Corp.”: A war decoration that be-
wildered the recipient came to a Digger of
my acquaintance. He had been on his way
into the line for the first time, when a piece
of shell gave him a slight wound. He was
SEE THE DIFFERENCE?
BACHELOR FRIEND: “My dear old chap, I thought your wife had promised to forget
that little affair?”
HUBBY: “So she did, my boy—so she did. But she .didn’t promise to let me forget
that she’d forgotten it."
sent to hospital in England, and the medal
was forwarded to him there. Obviously
there had been some mistake in identity, but
it wasn’t till later that I pieced together the
story. Snow, a reprobate, had been a.w.l.
on some business of his own; stumbling to-
wards his battalion in the darkness, he fell
over a couple of men. They put up their
hands, and he took them in—a valuable
catch, for the pair proved to be spies dressed
in the uniforms of Tommies. Asked for his
name, Snow, with a paybook already mostly
red-ink, realised that he would also have
to explain how he happened to be on the
spot, so he gave the first name he could
remember —that of a new arrival who had
stood before him on parade. In due course
the other man received the medal. In Eng-
land he was doubtful about keeping the un-
earned adornment, but he was wearing the
ribbon proudly the last time I saw him in
Sydney.
* * * *
“M.”: Following on the discovery of Blake
drawings in Auckland (M.L.), Christ-
church has come to light with a bangle of
rubies which once belonged to Mary Queen
of Scots. A gift from her to a loyal retainer,
lan MacPhcrson, it has passed since then
to the favorite daughter in each generation
of his successors; but it looks as if it will
leave the family at last, and be sent to
Christie’s for auction.
* * * *
“C.”: It was in 1789 that Phillip issued
the order that gave Neutral Bay its name (B.
20/3/’29), and the inlet remains to the pre-
sent day the anchorage of all foreign ships
having no business at the Quay. And it was
the La Perouse expedition and the prospect
of a French search party to follow, more
than any anxiety about the Spanish, which
prompted him.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Tasmania’s old trouble, the
drift of population to other States, has
struck South Australia. Last year it gained
2300 from overseas, but lost in the afore-
mentioned way 5000 (net), thus heavily dis-
counting the excess of births over deaths.
Total increase, 3577, the lowest for many
years; total population, 580,000.
* * * *
“Dalguise”: Are there linguistic as well
as racial throwbacks? A five-year-old nephew
of mine, an Australian of the third genera-
tion, speaks with a rich Kerry brogue, of
which neither his parents nor his grand-
parents on either side ever showed a trace.
Nor has he had any nurse or other person
who might have influenced his early attempts
at speech.
* * * *
“Der Jong”: The distinction of being the
only volunteer army in the Great War by
no means belonged to the A.I.F. (B.
20/3/’29), and “Detonator” might have
added the South Africans to his list. Though
service for home defence is still compulsory
in the Union, as in the days of the Boer
commandoes, all outland service was volun-
teered for, including the East African cam-
paign, which was the special job of the Afri-
kanders. Writer saw some of them in action
against the Senussi in Libya, and a fine
lot they were, as they were to prove beyond
all question later at Delville Wood and many
another bloody corner of France.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Despite the opposition an
innovation always excites, the automatic
traffic control at Melbourne’s busy Swanston-
Collins streets intersection is proving a great
success. There is a slight waste of time when
the traffic is not of equal bulk in each direc-
tion, but it is nothing compared to the waste
of a whole policeman. Also the “caution”
before the signal changes is not of sufficient
duration to enable elderly persons to skid
across the road before the motor avalanche
pours over them, but this is only a matter of
adjustment. Most of the protests against an
extension of the system come from police
quarters, where there is a fear that jobs
will become fewer; but it is a dull guardian
of the law who really likes being a traffic
signal. An interesting point is that pedes-
trians show the orders of the mechanical
device far more respect than they did the
flesh-and-blood copper.
*■. * * *
“Hayband”: Australia’s first wage-fixer
was Captain Hunter, the second Governor
of N.S.W. He opened his court in a burst
of anger on August 4, 1797, sat for five
minutes or so, and delivered an award which
covered a continent* or as much of it as
had then been detected. Reaping wheat was
to be paid for at 10s. per acre. Wages (with
board) were Is. a day, 6s. weekly, or £lO
p.a. The price for clearing was also fixed
at 10s. per acre, irrespective of what was
to be cleared. Hours were left “as per
arrangement.” Penalties for non-observance
of the award were fines for defaulting em-
ployers, while the worker whose diligence
relaxed, or who ceased operations altogether,
risked a flogging.
* * * *
“Hunosia”: Port Moresby felt a strong
urge towards temperance the other day.
It was after Dibura Gavuta, of Vabukori,
was brought up before the beak for kai-kai-
ing the forbidden firewater of the white man.
Dibura had been lumbered for the offence
some days before when he was employed as
generally useful at the local Ritz, and though
the case had been discussed at the bar over
drinks the evidence was not then public.
In fact, it only became so when Dibura
deposed that he had just filled his mouth
with whisky when he heard the proprietor
coming, so “put it back again.” Tli back
of the court emptied rather hurriedly, and
there is a brisk run on bottled beer among
those who were formerly addicted to spirits.
* * * *
“Glebe”: In a country like England it is
possible for the airman to detect the sites
of buried Roman towns (B. 13/3/’29) be-
cause the chalk, once disturbed, never
again quite settles down. Crops and even
grass grown on disturbed soil show a different
tint of green from the surrounding herbage
when viewed from far aloft. Thus, the lines
of old Roman walls and outlines of buildings
are patterned, as it were. Revealing photo-
graphs have been taken of Stonehenge from
the air, and also of the site of Ireland's
ancient Tara.
* * * *
“Mudros”: Opinions may differ as to the
fighting value of Lawrence and his Arabs,
but there is little doubt that the gentleman
himself was far from popular with the brass-
hats, his theatricality being the main cause.
On leave in London on one occasion, he was
invited, with several other senior officers, to
a big social function. Generals and admirals
were there in service dress, but Lawrence, to
the great delight of the ladies, appeared in
the full war-paint of an Arab chieftain.
* * * *
“Timon’s” vignette:—
It was after Damascus had fallen and Ammon had
been captured; our troops, war-weary, malaria-
smitten and generally all in, were back again on
the Mount of Olives. After the oven-like atmosphere
of the Jordan Valley the keen cold air of the Moun-
tains of Moab had floored hundreds who had escaped
the Turkish bullets; and as the regiment marched
into camp hardly a man but was leading two horses.
Uniforms were in rags and tempers frayed. A
signaller climbed slowly to the orderly room and
handed the adjutant a message form, containing the
terms under which the Allies were prepared to
grant an armistice. He passed it to the C.O. and
a few minutes later the latter stood in front of
what remained of his regiment. “I hav e just
received the following fi om Brigade”; and he
read all four pages of that momentous message in
a voice that rang over the Mount and startled the
birds in the Garden of Sorrows. Then he folded the
message; he was no longer addressing his regiment
on parade, but was speaking to a few hundred
friends with whom he had been through all that
soldiers can undergo. “It is unnecessary for me to
tell you,” he finished, “that this message means
that the war is virtually over.” He stopped—for
the wild outburst of delight that never came. Noth-
ing broke the dull silence save the comment of a C
Squadron man. “Flamin’ near time,” he grumbled.
THE NARK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If you happen to be settled on a cosy little
perch,
Back in harness after ages of a spirit-
searing search;
\Y hen the work seems daily lighter—sign
you’re getting fit and well—
YY itlx a cheerfulness returning that lay
dormant in the spell,
Then it’s any odds a hoodoo will arise (to
quench the spark
Of your self-congratulation) in a pessimistic
nark!
If you chance to air opinions of a good-
days-coming trend,
Thinking you have turned the corner and
your luck is on the mend,
Or reveal the dreams you cherish and the
clever plans you’ve made
For the rosy-tinted future you are facing
unafraid,
Comes an arrow-flight of discord with your
projects ’as the mark,
And your resolution crumbles in the blither
of a nark!
Thus in each prospective flutter which might
yield you recompense,
Lo ! the killjoy saps your courage with his
ruefulness intense.
lie will prove with damning logic that your
schemes are all awry,
That no profit waits your venture —till your
fund of faith runs dry.
Then you vacillate in judgment at his hint
of menace dark,
To the patent satisfaction of the hope-
dispelling nark!
Life is full of wrecked illusions, and a
gamble at the best,
But we’re philosophic triers, as our ceaseless
aims attest.
And the way is always fairer if we cling
to hopeful schemes,
Letting optimistic instincts add the color to
our dreams.
So I tender the suggestion that humanity
embarks
On an orgy of reprisal till it squelches all
the narks—
For the world would grow in gladness could
we spiflicate the narks 1
MAORILAND.
RIVERINA.


'
%
i
i
I
V.
GUARANTEED MADE BY
EASTMAN KODAK C°.Y
Important Announcement!
FREE TO SMOKERS
of
“ Vice Regal” Cigarettes, 15’s Packets and 50’s and 100’s Flat Tins
“Three Castles” Cigarettes, 15’s Packets and 50’s and 100’s Flat Tins
“Capstan ” (Ooal) Cigarettes, 25’s, 50’s and 100’s Flat Tins
“Player’s” Cigarettes, 18’s Packets
“Country Life” Cigarettes, 15’s and 50’s Tins
A No. 2 Cartridge Hawk-Eye Model “C”
CAMERA
(Guaranteed made by the Kodak Company)
This Camera is finished in handsome black leatherette, fitted with view finder, is daylight loading, and
takes excellent pictures x inches. TO OBTAIN THE CAMERA colled the Coupons now
enclosed in any of the above well-known brands of Cigarettes, and when you have colleded 100, write
your name and address plainly on a piece of paper and enclose with Coupons and bring or forward to
W. D. & H. O. WILLS (Australia) LTD.
KENT & BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
411-423 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Or Cnr. MURRAY & MILLIGAN STS., PERTH.
who in return will present you with the Camera as advertised.
COUPONS NOT REDEEMABLE AFTER 31st DECEMBER, 1929
START COLLECTING NOW!
and forward as soon as you have the requisite number.


USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
FINE RINGS AT FAIRFAX &
Gems of flawless quality, in hand-fashioned settings.
ROBERTS
Supreme value!
Two Fine Diamonds,
set in Platinum, Hexa-
gon Settings and 1 Bet.
Gold, Four Small Dia-
monds at sides.
£l5/15/-
Three Fine Diamonds,
set in Platinum and
18ct. Gold, £2O.
Finest v u .. ity Dia-
monds, set in all pure
Platinum, £4o.
Fine Diamond, set in
all pure Platinum with
small Diaihonds at
sides, £35.
Two Fine Diamonds,
set in Platinum and
18ct. Gold, £3O.
Fine Diamond, set in
Hexagon-shaped Plati-
num and Gold setting,
£25.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,”
PLAIN FIGURES. 23-25 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
LTD.
CASH ONLY.
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
m
■v;v
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
CLOBE
MEAT EXTRACT
CLOBE BRAND
Some April birthdays :
Bishop Armstrong (late of Wangaratta), 72, and
Walter Young (Elder, Smith and Co., Adel.), 57, on
2nd; Col. Bourehier, M.L.A. (Vic.), 48, on 4th;
Archdeacon Boyce (Syd.), 85, on 6th; Alf. Roberts
(pres. S.A. Lawn Tennis Ass’n), 66, on 7th; artist
Arthur Streeton, 62, on Bth; ex-Prime Minister
Watson, 62, and T. Trumble (High Commissioner’s
office), 57, on 9th; former Federal Speaker Elliot
Johnson, 67, on 10th; poet Bernard O’Dowd, 63, on
11th; Dr. Maloney, M.H.R., 75, on 12th; Justice
Douglas (Q.), 46, on 13th; ex-Federal Minister Hill,
63, on 14th ; Prime Minister Bruce, 46, knight Alfred
W. Meeks (chairman of A.M.P.), 80, and Adelaide’s
former Mayor Allen Simpson, 54, on 15th; Lieut.-
Gen. Harry Chauvel, 64, on 16th ; knight Win. Mc-
Beath (Melb.), 64, on 17th; Wm. Dixson (Syd.),
59, and David Barclay (Hobart), 83, on 18th;
Melb. Uni. Chancellor MacFarland, 78, and Thomas
Hughes (Sydney’s first Gaud Mayor), 66, on 19th ;
L. A. Adamson (Wesley Coll., Melb.), 69, on 20th;
pastoralist R. T. Melrose (S.A.), 67, on 21st; W.
L. Baillieu (Melb.), 70, Clifford FI. Hay (N.S.W.
Premier’s Dept.), 51, Dr. B. H. Morris (Inspector-
Gen. of S.A. Hospitals), 61, Prof. Charteris (Syd.),
50, E. J. Field (S.A. Irrigation Commission), 55,
and J. J. Virgo (Y.M.C.A.), 64, on 22nd; Q.
Senator Cooper, 41, and Arthur Robinson (formerly
Vic. Attorney-Gen.), 57, on 23rd; J. G. Moseley,
M. (S.A.), 82, on 24th; medical knight Carr
Maudsley (Melb.), 70, and James Davies (Com-
mercial Travellers’ Ass’n secretary), 64, on 25th;
former Federal Minister J. G. Drake (Q.), 79, knight
MICK KIRWAN, Queensland Minister of
Works.
Will Sowden (formerly editor of Adel. Register),
71, J. MacCallum Smith, M.L.A. (W.A.), 61, and
R. W. M. Waddy (ex-S.A. Deputy P.M.G.), 81, on
26th; Gov.-Gen. Stonehaven, 55, knight Henry Brad-
don (M.L.C.), 66, ex-Westralian Premier Jas.
Mitchell, 63, and Prof. Agar (Melb.), 47 on 27th ;
Justice Owen Dixon (High Court), 43, on 28th.
A Melbourne man is to have the job of
coaching Prince George in the science and
art of diplomacy when the King’s youngest
son enters the Foreign Office. He is A. W.
A. Deeper, a product of Melbourne Grammar
School and ’Varsity, and a son of Dr. Alex-
ander Deeper, an ex-warden of Trinity Col-
lege, Melbourne, and of the Felton Bequest
Committee. The younger Deeper has had a
distinguished career in diplomacy. He served
on the British delegation to the Paris Peace
Conference and at Lausanne, and is now
first secretary at the Foreign Office. He
paid an official visit to his homeland five
years ago.
M. F'. Troy, Westralian Minister of Lands
and Immigration, is spending a few days m
Sydney on his way back to the West from
a health trip to Maoriland. He is a Ma
Stater by birth, and was a school-teacher
at Woodburn before he heard Westralia call-
ing. Mt. Magnet, a Murchison constituency,
sent him to the Leg. Assembly upwards of
20 years ago, and he was Speaker in the
Scaddan Government’s time (1911-16). A
quiet, pleasant-mannered little man, well
liked on both sides of the House, Troy has
a firm faith in Westralia’s future as a wlieai
country, a faith warranted by personal ex-
perience, for his own farm returns 25-bushel
crops with gratifying regularity.
James Blair, C.J. of Queensland, is only
a little man, but he invests his office with
unmistakable dignity. An ex-politician of
pre-Labor days, he could have had a judge-
ship 14 years be-
fore he accepted
an appointment in
1922 from a Labor
Ministry. A Min-
ister under Mor-
gan, Ividston and
Denham, lie was
responsible for the
excellent State
Workers’ Compen-
sation Act. He
adds to his judicial
duties the Chancel-
lorship of the Uni-
versity and an
active interest in
literature, music
and sport. He has
shown a lively in-
terest in the revival
of the Queensland
Rugby Union, of
which he was once
president, and he
is a witty after-
dinner speaker.
Maoriland's medi-
cal knight TRUBY
KING, world’s
champion saver of
babies.
A mighty slayer of buffaloes in North
Australia is Harry Hardy, who has shot 48
bulls in one day. He traverses the Mary
River country, galloping down the herd and
cutting out the bulls; he uses a cut-down
rifle at short range, like a pistol. Seldom
more than one bullet in the spine is spent
in bringing down the huge buffaloes, some of
which weigh up to three tons and have horns
with a spread of 10ft. from tip to tip. They
arc estimated to number 30,000, and are
hunted by Cecil Freer, Bert Smith and
Hardy, each with a gang of trained abos.
Hardy, a strong, wiry Australian with per-
fect teeth, is on a visit to Sydney with his
wife and daughter. Miss Hardy is a fine
horsewoman, and often accompanied her
father on his hunting trips.
Touched 82 this month and still going
strong, J. H. Packard, Adelaide’s veteran
surveyor. As a young man, he was with the
Goyder expedition of 1869 to the N.T., when
the town of Darwin was surveyed.
J. G. Appel, dead in Brisbane after a
short illness, filled a conspicuous niche in
Queensland public life for many years. Born
in Brisbane and educated at Brisbane Gram-
mar School, he became a solicitor, and took
to shire politics, going on to Parliament as
member for Albert. In 1908 he was made Ivid-
ston’s Minister of Mines and Works, sub-
sequently transferring to the Home Secre-
taryship ; in this office he continued under
the Denham Government until the Labor
party came into power in 1915. A keen
musician and yachtsman, Appel was a like-
able, unaffected man. He had just turned 70.
Josiah Thomas was only a little over 30
when he became M.L.A. for Alma (N.S.W.)
in 1894, and except for three years (1922-25)
he has been in politics ever since. The
original Federal member for the Barrier, he
followed Hughes into the conscription camp
in 1916, and became a Nationalist Senator
next year. The Labor victory last Novem-
ber means that he has to pack his swag.
Although he was very young when he reached
Australia, Thomas is a Qornishman, and he
may have another look at the old country
now he is out of collar.
Carrick Robertson, one of the new Maori-
land knights, has an international reputation
as a surgeon. Of slight build, pale and
sandy, he is unemotional to outward seem-
ing, but beneath a cold exterior- is the
warmth of humanity. The efforts of Auck-
landers to keep him busy are seconded by
patients from all parts of the Dominion;
nevertheless, he does a tremendous amount
of work as chief of the honorary surgeons
at Auckland public hospital.
A quaint mixture of actor and doer is
Alfred Aloysius Smith, who descended upon
Sydney last week. Smith’s first visit to Aus-
tralia‘was as third mate on a sailing-ship,
lie might never have been known to fame
or have grown to fortune if he had not
encountered a literary “ghost” who saw his
possibilities. He met her at her own back-
door in South Africa —he arrived there as a
pedlar—told her his story and she told it
to the world. It became a best-seller and
“Trader” Horn, as he came to be known,
earned celebrity and £lO,OOO for the film
rights. Horn or Smith is a walking casualty
ward of wounds due to lions’ bites, assegais
and rifle bullets. The old chap—he is over
80 —sports a broad hat and an enormous
beard. In Melbourne he disdained the taxis
and rode about in a hansom cab, which is
an ad vulture thousands of Melburnians have
never had.
Harry Whakatu Uru, who died suddenly
at Wellington (M.L.) the otl*‘r day, was
probably the heaviest man who ever sat m
liis country’s House of Representatives—-
and that’s saying something. A pure-bred
Maori, descendant, of a chief of the N’Tu
AJiuriri tribe, he came into prominence
as an athlete in the late ’eighties and early
’nineties, and achieved success as a wrestler
and footballer, and also, despite his vast
bulk, as a cyclist. Well educated and astute,
he was elected as one of the four Maori
representatives in Parliament in 1922, and
held the seat till last year, when ho was
defeated. He was a South Island delegate
to the opening of the Federal Parliament,
and married a daughter of T. R. Rogers, of
Albury (N.S.W.).
Paul Cheyne, who takes charge ot the
publicity of the new Made-in-Australia
Council, is an old pressman who has
worked in most of the States. He started
as a bank clerk in Westralia, but, realising
that banking was not his life work, tried
a job at the Australia Hotel. Hotel life
began to bore him, and he went into news-
paper work. lie was on the Argus, the
Labor paper in Hobart, the Sydney Sun and
the Brisbane Courier. It is largely due to
his efforts that this new body, embracing
practically all the manufacturers, has been
formed to carry on the good work of the
protection of Australian industries.
James Corcoran Newton, who went from
Victoria to the Speck to. manage one of J.
C. Hutton’s bacon factories, and stayed on
as a public man, is dead at Launceston. He
held one of the Bass seats in the House of
Assembly from 1917 to 1925, when he retired
owing to ill-health. H'on. Minister in the
first Lee Government, he had a chance to
become Premier when J. B. Hayes went to
the Senate, but was unable to form a
Government. When Lee came back Newton
was Chief Secretary and Minister of Mines.
For the rest, he rendered good service as
master warden of the Launceston Marine
Board and as president of the Chamber of
Commerce, of the Tas. Dairymen’s Associa-
tion and of the Fathers’ Association, besides
being a Methodist lay reader. He was 65
when his busy life closed.
Virtuosi usually invest a bit of their earn-
ings in Government bonds before they leave
Australia, but none of them ever got the
return that came the way of Martin Mac-
Duff, the Scottish tenor. While singing in
Brisbane in 1921. Mac Duff bought a ticket
in the Queensland Government lottery
which paid a dividend of £lOOO. He con-
tinued to take tickets when he returned to
his native heather and last year his industry
was rewarded with a first prize of £5OOO.
W. H. Kendell, whose presidential speech
in opening the Vic. Chamber of Agriculture’s
annual convention at Warragul made an
excellent impression, is a son of W. Ken-
dell, M.L.C., a former honorary State Minis-
ter. The elder Kendell was mainly respon-
sible for having pay of £2OO p.a. passed for
Uppah Chambah members. ITe was fated
not to draw it himself.
Maoriland was not so lacking in apprecia-
tion of the late Prof. Bickerton, originator
of the “partial impact” theory of the birth
of stars; as some of his obituary notices
imply. Canterbury College, from which he
resigned in 1903 as the result of friction
with the board, last year appointed him
Professor Emeritus. It was at the instance
of Lord Dudley, then Governor-General of
Australia, that Bickerton went to England
in 1910, aided by a fund for which the
Maoriland Government stood sponsor, and
last year the Government of the Dominion
granted him a pension of £l2O a year. His
remains were cremated in London, and the
ashes will be sent to Maoriland, with the
request—which will almost certainly be
granted—that they shall be placed beside a
memorial tablet in Canterbury College hall.
Dr. Maloney, M.H.R., and Alec Peacock,
Speaker of Vic. Assembly, will each com-
plete 40 years’ continuous service as a
member of Parliament to-morrow (Thurs-
day). Each was elected to Vic. Assembly
on Maj-ch 28, 1889. Maloney for Melbourne
West and Peacock for Clunes and Allandale.
Maloney resigned from the Assembly at the
end of 1903 to become member for Melbourne
in the Reps. Peacock stood for the Senate
in 1903 when Sargood died and the Vic.
Parliament was the electorate. Robert Reid
got the seat, and in after years Peacock
rejoiced at his defeat, as he recognised that
for him the Federal Upper House would
have been a political mausoleum.
A. J. Pollack, M.L.A. for the Clarence, is
hand in glove with Dr. Earle Page in the
huge electrical schemes destined to supply
light and power for the whole N.S.W. North
Coast. They are both natives of Grafton,
where Pollack built up a flourishing legal
practice and was president of the Chamber
of Commerce before entering politics. Like
Page in the Federal House, Pollack became
the Country Party's secretary and whip in
his first Parliament.
F. J. Brown, of Brisbane, is on his way
back to Deal, the Kentish town in which
he was born, and which lie has not seen for
54 years. He came out in the Corinth with
his uncle, Captain W. R. Brown, master of
the ship. The uncle became Lloyd’s sur-
veyor at Brisbane; rhe nephew turned steve-
dore, and at the time of his retirement last
year was the oldest master stevedore in
Australia. 11 is purplcst patch was the
stowing of a record big cargo of wool (for
those days) aboard the clipper Cutty Sark.
The duration record for a witness in an
arbitration case is held by Robert James
Matheson, a Victorian engine-driver. He
appeared before Judge Drake-Brockman on
Oct. 31, and was still giving evidence when
this paper last heard of him, after 26 days
in the box.
John Carthew, who has joined the rush
for the Golden Shore, at 79, was one of
the few remaining specimens of the old-time
Queensland miner. He first went after
copper at the long-forgotten Ml. Perry field,
and was gouging when the Palmer was lis-
covercd. When that alluvial El Dorado had
been worked out, he chased gold on the Hodg-
kin son and scratched tin at Ilerberton. filling
in the intervals with storekeeping. It was
his pride to recall that he heard a London
lecturer say in 1867 that geological features
indicated that New Guinea, then an unknown
land, would one day prove one of the world’s
greatest gold producers..
Dr. Harrington Lees, Anglican Arch-
bishop of Melbourne, who died suddenly in
January, left £28,555, of which all but £l5OO
goes to his second wife. His private secre-
tary, Miss Joan McLennan, daughter of the
Registrar of Melbourne diocese, gets £5OO
and £250 each goes to three nieces and a
nephew.
T. J. Purvis, sec. of the Vic. Council of
Agricultural Education, which controls
Dookie and Longerenong colleges, is to be
promoted to the first class in the clerical
division in recognition of his good work.
G. F. Dicker, senior clerk of the Penal Dept.,
who was governor of Pentfidge a few years
ago, and Tom Forristal, of the Vic. Treasury,
who is a special inquiry officer (and a better
one than some commissions), are also to be
lifted a grade each.
JUDGE PIPER (S.A. ).
Harold Clapp is the highest-paid civil
servant in \ ictoria. The Chief Railway
Commissioner draws £5OOO p.a. There is a
big drop to the next in order: Cattanach,
chairman of the Water Commission, gets
£2OOO. That important officer J. A. Norris,
the Auditor-General, receives a mere £l5OO,
and so does Police Commissioner Blarney.
“Westerner”: Apropos of Canon Frewen’s
advancement to the bishopric of N.-W.« Aus-
tralia (B. 6/3/’29), Stephen Davies of Car-
pentaria was another to be made bishop. An
Englishman by birth, Davies served with the
Charleville Brotherhood, becoming head be-
fore returning to liis homeland. From there
he was appointed to his present position.
Quick to understand the .psychology of the
Aussie, he has done great work among the
Queenslanders.
FOCH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Out of the nightmare mists of gloom and
doubt,
When phantom Victory would fade and
yield
To gibing spectres of defeat and rout,
A leader rose, our very sword and shield
In time of need, to shape a purpose new
Out of disorder. Came a newer lease
Of faith and trust as Foch our footsteps
drew
Through War’s harsh pathways to tin-
fields of Peace.
That was his work. Deliverer, he lies
Where, to the beat of muffled drums and
slow
Soft-tramping feet, they bear a corse whose
eyes,
Shuttered in sleep, no dreams of Fame
can know.
For him the bugle notes regretful fall
To tell the sorrow of a hundred lands;
The Great War’s story is the pedestal
On which his monument of greatness
stands.
N.S.W.
HAROLD MERCER.


A GUM LEAF SOLO
WOULD BE ATTRACTIVE,
ANO A RABBIT-SKINNING,
CHAMPIONSHIP WOULD
Thrill. ,
And there could be a prize for the
MOST ELEGANT Two -UPPER,
Also a,
g»OAvN n race
AND OF COURSE
THERE OUGaHT TO BE
AN Abo-uars
l COMPETITION ,
The Winner..
A BIGGER AND BRIGHTER SHOW.
“The addition of some characteristically Australian items among the competitions would intensify interest in the Sydney R.A.S. Show.”
Poverty
Point
"Beerbohm Crummies” : Yet another great
artist at whose name the world once liter-
ally grew pale has passed into the shadows
in poverty and obscurity, as Hma di Murska
has done, and as I feel I myself must do.
I reter to the late Vincent Henderson, who
is reported from his native America as hav-
ing perished of hunger and exposure in a
wretched little hut in the woods. As the
original Wild Man of Borneo, he was one
ot the great draw r -cards of his time, and
drew a tremendous salary; but, alas! like
so many of us, he could not sit on it, wine
and women being his downfall. His genius
blossomed in a single night. Ringling’s
circus, then the greatest of its kind, came
o the town near which he dwelt. One day
ne leapt into Ringling’s office tent with a
w i]d waving of clubs and whis-
Kers. ' W ho in are you?” said Ringling
vlien Ins heart had left his mouth again and
ou t from under the tabie.
I m the W ild Man of Borneo,” yelped H'en-
derson, flourishing a tomahawk about Ring-
ling’s ears. “So you are,” was the hearty
response. “You're hired.”
“Hamfat”: In his job of showing Shaks-
peare to N.S.W. school kids, Gus Neville
has with him two clever women, a competent
young actor and Roland McCarty, who
looked after Allan Wilkie’s business for 4Jr
years. In some districts several schools
supply one audience ; the mummers take along
the props and costumes in a car. So far only
the Sydney suburban districts have been
covered, but the little co. will push out into
the country as soon as possible. Neville had
his first Shakspearean experience with Dam-
pier. His Shyloek has been compared with
Irving’s.
“Craiser”: The most sensational acts on
vaudeville programmes are usually the
acrobats, and people probably imagine that
these poor devils are highly paid. Actually
they usually get the least. Clowns with a
bit of patter may draw their £l7O a week,
but a recent couple of gymnasts who risked
their lives 12 times a week, not counting daily
rehearsals, drew the munificent salary of £22
between them. The acrobats are as a rule
the pariahs of the boards. The rest of the
company barely acknowledge their existence.
They seldom go into the streets, enter a
shop or look at the country which is giving
them their precarious livelihood. They hang
dumbly about the theatre, like rabbits fas-
cinated by a snake. Their average working
life is about ten years, they say. After that
the body begins to get less and less supple,
and that quick twist in midair which enables
them to grip the hands of a partner far above
the heads of the audience becomes ever
harder of attainment. Still, the trade has
its compensations. When a Melbourne
manager asked the leader of an unusually
large troupe how many tickets he would
need to the next town he replied, after con-
sultation of his fingers: “Vives und gongu-
bines —elefen!”
“T. Alkie”: A recent assertion that the
first Australian talkie was to be made
shortly tends to prove how short-lived Aus-
tralian memory is for anything not coming
from Hollywood. The first talkie shot in
Australia was made in 1927 when the Duke
of York landed; the second was that of the
Renown band taken one Sunday afternoon at
Taronga Park. Both were shown at the
Lyceum, Sydney. The stealing of the King’s
voice per medium of the broadcast and the
transferring of it to a talkie was copied from
Australia. The Federal authorities would
not allow a talkie camera at Canberra on
the occasion of the opening. A silent camera
shot the scene and the talkie camera filmed
the speech in a room in Bathurst-street.
The combination filled every theatre it was
shown in. The trouble with the talkies then
was that they had no real film, and the Aus-
tralian co. was more interested in building
studios for silent flickers than in making
the new sort. Talk about having to send
men to Yankeeland to learn makes me
savage. Walter Sully took the camera and
shot the two films mentioned without any
previous experience. All you have to do is
to focus up in the ordinary way and tune
in your sound on the monitor alongside; an
electric motor does the rest. The greatest
use to which the talkies can be put is in
connection with travel talks and general edu-
cational work. Any lecture can be superim-
posed on any silent film.
“Cauboy”: Melbourne Repertory Society
is still suffering from its temporary alli-
ance with the Taits. When the attempt to
mix commercial oil with amateur water col-
lapsed the repcrtorians found themselves
with a nearly-empty cashbox and a sadly-
depleted membership. They managed to
round up some hundreds of more or less
enthusiastic followers, and the number has
since increased to 700. Then it was pro-
posed that the society should own its own
theatre. This was estimated to cost £lO,OOO,
Seemingly a mere pittance for a city which
has just found £900,000 for two new picture-
palaces ; but the effort was found to be
far beyond the society’s capacity. Just
as there are no philanthropists to provide
the wherewithal for a permanent orchestra,
neither are there any to advance the cause
of the intellectual drama. The society has
also lost its professional director, Frank
Clewlow, who -was responsible for some
much-improved productions last year. Still,
it is full of hope and aspirations. This
year it proposes to put on “Juno and the
Paycock” at a suburban hall, and members
wall take their turn at production.
“Cine Ma”: Hollywood continues to buy
up the world’s talent and convert it to its
own infantile uses. Pola Negri, Rudolph
Valentino and Emil Jannings are some of
those who gained in screw but lost in art
through taking a single ticket to Los Angeles.
Now Max Reinhardt has gbne to the world-
centre of art and education. The German
stage-architect’s brilliant and daring settings
have left Australian producers absolutely
untouched, unless.yon except the faint echo
to be detected in Allan "Wilkie’s sable hang-
ings; but they have revolutionised European
production in both the flesh and blood and
the celluloid. The financial geniuses of
Hollywood will do their best to ruin him.
“C. 8.”: It is nearly two years since the
Firm promised us “The Happy Husband.”
It has had splendid seasons in London and
N’York, so there doesn't seem to be any-
thing against it, except that it w 7 as written
by an Australian.
“Cine Ma”: Shell-shocked Diggers who
have had enough of seeing their battles
fought over again for them by the Yanks
on the silent screen will learn with mis-
givings that England’s first complete sound
picture, “Balaclava,” will shortly be shown
in Australia. In it the rattle of musketry,
the roar of the cannon, the thunder of the
hooves of the Light Brigade and even the
groans of the wounded are realistically re-
corded.
_ “C.Q.” : Arthur Benjamin, the Australian
pianist who remembered his homeland when
an entrepreneur arrived with the offer of a
handsome contract, is a recent convert to
the policy of virtuosi insuring their most
important members. He was returning m a
motor-car from a picture-show, the principal
item of which concerned a musician ivhose
career was ended when he damaged one
of l us digits, when an almost similar acei-
dent occurred to one of Ins own hands,
Luckily the hand haafei, but the first use
he put 11 t 0 was to fel * n an msurance
„ _ TTI _
Cine Ma : What a contrast there is
between the refusal of Dr. Malcolm Sargent,
eonductor-in-chief of the London Royal Choral
Society, to become the director of a West
End cinema at £7OOO a year and the ready
acceptance of such jobs by American con-
ductors! Some of Uncle’s most promising
musicians are now playing tinpot accom-
paniments to the pictures, and U.S.A. is not
the only one. Several first-class Australian
musicians have vanished into obscurity and
a suburban cinema. The claim of the movie
people is that they are thus providing the
very best music for the multitude, but the
plea seldom holds. The other night I was
lured into a picture theatre because of the
announcement that it had secured the ser-
vices of a first-class conductor and a prime
symphony orchestra, plus the greatest
organist and organ in the land. What I
heard was Dvorak’s hackneyed Humoreske
played on an organ so arranged that the
treble came from one side of the theatre and
the bass from the other. Naturally the
chords failed to reach the ear together and
the effect was pantomimic. Then the first-
class symphony orchestra struck up. The
title of the classic rendered was, I under-
stand, “ Wreck Me, Rosie, I Rave when
You’re Rough.”
“Swanston”: “The Adorable Outcast,” the
Australian picture which Union Theatres
adapted from Beatrice Grimshaw’s novel,
J ias jj een made into a falkie. It will be dis-
tributed in America, where the silent version
i in „ i,ppn drum* well
L “ ~ nZ
Anu :,.^ be L spasmodic agitation m
Australian cities _ for permanent orchestras
lias raised a curious echo m the Last.
When Prince Purachatra, of Siam, was in
Melbourne, local music-lovers were in the
throes of a controversy on the subject. Pura
listened, and came to the conclusion that the
matter was of importance to a modern State,
When he got back lie set to work to give
Bangkok a symphony orchestra under Royal
subsidy. Those acquainted with the sounds
emitted by native bands said it could not be
done, but to-day the city of pagodas has
periodical performances about which even
foreign critics wax enthusiastic. A recent
programme included the “Ruy Bias” overture
and Schubert’s Unfinished Symphony. All
the performers are Siamese, and Phra Chen
Duriyanga, the conductor, has never been
out of his native land.
THE GALLERY GALLANT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I ve heard the praise that's bruited far
Of all the charm you’ve introduced;
I know how musical you are.
But sitting on the chicken-roost
A fellow can’t see very much
Of all the things they say are you;
For crowded in the “deener touch”
It’s hard—so hard ! —to get a “screw 7.”
Like some old cadenced melody
Your voice that helps portray the role,
In mellow tone intriguing me,
Reveals the beauty of your soul.
And peering through the lowering smoke
I feel myself, I tell you true,
I air jealous of the hero bloke
\\ ho smoodges round caressing you.
when the cove that comes the bluff
Grabs your sweet form, I boil with rage;
At glimpses of his caveman stuff,
£.| e el like jumping on the stage,
if in scenes that tell of heart
lou’re needful of a handsome “pea”
1 o play a champion Tunney’s part,
loung lady, you can count on me.
QUEEXSLAND.
THE GALLERY SHEIK.


Va
Wi
Up
"■MM
A
1*
<4
A
J>
A
(\
m
n
™9r^i
~«,r
r
■
rTTS^f^
~"L-
-c
'!>
/
%
l fi
f\
c/e
No. 628 "4711”
Powders, perfumed
with "4711” Eau
de Cologne, 2/6 fit
3/6 per box.
No. 642 Compact
Powder, perfumed
with "4711” Tosca,
4/6 each.
The Summer QirV
Preference!
The universal popularity
of the Blue and Gold
labelled Eau de
Cologne is due to the fact
that, for nearly 150 years,
it has been made from the
finest ingredients, according
to the original recipe. It never
varies in quality, and its pur-
ity, fragrance and strength
have never been
surpassed.
When buying Eau de
Cologne insist upon the
Blue and Gold labelled
n mr
Wwnl
CAUDCCOLOGNI
wall nd conge*!
An unequalled
Shampoo for the iuu
No. 951 "4711”
Eau de Cologne
Liquid Shampoo,
3/- per bottle. Rose
and Eau de Cologne
perfume.
f if]
\ r/7f
m
No. 475 "4711"
Bath Salts, per-
fumed with "4711”
Eau de Cologne.
3/6, 4/6 & 5/6
per bottle.
No. 859 "4711”
Eau de Cologne
Soap, 1/3 per cake.
Eau de Cologne and
Lavender Perjume.
w
m
(•*&»»• (tow
bs^ote~Vr:6i.
EAU DE COLOGNE
No. 43
W(itch Shape
2/3
No. 5
Original Shape
6/6
No. 50
The new size
which holds as
much as 20 of
the 2/3 size,
30/-; and sizes
from 1/6 to
75/- per bottle.
Obtainable from all leading
chemists and departmental
stores.
yrvzoc/ong
££&
Cedo&rtC
No. no "4711”
"Frozoclone”
Solid Eau iie
Cologne, 3/6 &
4/6.
Crearrt.
JfufftenA
Ja
m
#
No. 463 "4711”
Cold Cream
1/9, 3/- & 3/9
No. 453 "4711”
Vanishing
Cream,
1/3, 2/3 & 3/.
4711
o
Eau de
Cologne


$O4,
* ■
;>Kr
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD.
Total Assets exceed £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
t o\ in the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through acciaent, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportiona e y.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost eveiy contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
H. E. SIDEN, Applications tor Agencies invited tram men o t integrity. brUOE SMITH, Oe.er.l H|>
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FUR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Desert Song’’
Criterion “Young Woodley”
Royal “Hit the Deck”
Palace “The Wrecker”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Town Hall Erica Morini
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “The Vagabond King”
Royal “This Y’ear of Grace”
King’s “The Flying Squad”
New Comedy .... “Applesauce”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Two events of some cultural significance
happened on Saturday night in a Sydney
locality not hitherto suspected of artistic
leanings—the Turret Theatre, at Milson’s
Point, child of the Turret Theatre Dramatic
Club, was opened, and a baby-grand opera
by Alfred Hill was given its first public
performance.
The theatre is a very small one in an
upper storey; the stage is almost as large
as the auditorium. It will be used principally
for repertory playing, but as the Turret
Club is not yet ready to storm the foot-
lights, Mr. Hill and 30 or so of his musical
friends, mostly from the Uni. Con., were
allowed the honor of providing the first bill.
The cofnposer found his inspiration in Maori
folk-lore and musical idiom —a field in which
lie seems to be the ouly notable explorer,
though it offers a tempting wealth of
material, material tragic, romantic, heroic
and mystic. The plot is simple: Tainui, a
Maori chief, having slain his enemy. Pomare,
made a flute from the dead man’s arm-bone.
But whenever he plays upon the flute he
hears the spirit-voice of the dead man wail-
ing reproaches. Tainui’s son, Waipata, falls
in love with Teora, daughter of the dead
Pomare. Tainui is furious, swears that the
girl has bewitched his offspring and attempts
to slay the lovers. He is foiled by a tohunga
(warrior-priest) who insists on trial by his
magic spear, which, he says, will move from
the accuser t»i the accused if the accused be
guiltless. Tainui takes the spear and
w r restles with it mightily, but it takes him
to Teora’s feet. Dropping the spear, the
old savage attempts to pick up his flute,
but the spirit-voice mocks him and he dies
in a frenzy of rage.
The piece, a one-acter, was written 20
years ago, and the musical treatment is on
approved grand-opera lines. With only four
characters to appear on the stage, the surge
of melody finds expression in solos, duets,
trios and quartettes, with, of course,
MAISIE GAY, English comedienne, who lends this cheerful
countenance to “This Year of Grace” at Melbourne Royal.
orehestral accompaniment and interludes.
The music is always suave and tuneful- —
no modern dissonances here —and some stir-
ring vocal climaxes are attained. Perhaps
the finest thing in the piece is the war-song
of old Tainui with its haka-like accompani-
ment, splendidly sung by Harold Tolle-
mache. Even if the rest of the score is
fated to be heard no more, this jewel should
be salvaged. May Craven was an admirable
Teora, and sang her part with plenty of
dramatic fire. Less impressive figures. were
Rupert Swallow as \\ aipata and Wilfred
Thomas as the tohunga. Conductor J. M.
Post, very young but very capable, waved
his baton over one of the best-balanced
amateur orchestras ever heard in Sydney.
The dressing was more picturesque than
accurate —Teora looked more like a Red
Indian maiden than a wahine- —but the stage
setting caught the Maori flavor. Altogether,
producer John Ryan, who was also the spirit-
voice off-stage, can congratulate himself.
* * *
The show that attracts about as big a
crowd within a fortnight as all the rest
around the Harbor gather in a year has
opened at Sydney Showground, and threat-
ens to break all previous records in scope
and attendance. It doesn’t vary much from
year to year; see the Royal Easter Show
once and you've seen it for a decade.
Scarcely anybody, however, is content with
seeing it only once. The explanation is
simple. It is a living human pageant, spec-
tacular and yet so fundamentally simple
that even a movie mind can see it whole.
To-day the preliminary judging of stock
will be completed; the Show really gets into
its stride to-morrow, when State Governor
Sir Dudley de Chair performs the official
opening, and the ring events, among which
woodchopping is starred, are billed to begin.
* *
Even at the risk of shaking Aberdonian
faith in the veracity of Tiie Bulletin, it
hab to be asserted that the show staged at
Sydney Empire on Saturday night was too
good value for the money. The offering was
called “Clowns in Clover,” but the name
has no significance. It was a revue: a
series of disconnected scenes and turns —
so many of them that there were still half
a dozen’to go when this Showman reluctantly
tore himself away at 31.25 to catch his last
boat.
Half the turns could be cut out and the
supply of entertainment would still be gener-
ous above average. The cutting of several
would greatly improve the offering, for,
though all the turns had some merit, a few
rather missed fire. The majority, however,
were first-class. A splendid ballet of 24
brilliantly-trained young ladies did more than
a fair share of the work. They were given
the reception they thoroughly merited.
Several of the sets were uncommonly good,
too; the first and the first after the only
interval were so spectacularly effective that
the show was held up for minutes while an
audience, which overflowed into the aisles,
thundered its approval. All the dressing was
also on a lavish scale; The Bulletin
counted 16 different lots of raiment on the
ballet and th e n
gave it up. The
cast included
Jennie Benson,
William Kent,
Vera Spaull, Elsie
Parkes, Len Rich,
Jack Cannot,
Gladys Hermes,
Molly Fisher,
Myrtle Pierce (a
very neat dancer),
A rth u r Clarke,
May Daly, Leal
Douglas and sun-
dry others.
With the prun-
ing suggested,
which looked in-
evitable, the show
would be one of
the brightest, live-
liest and prettiest
within coo-ee of
the Harbor. The
Bulletin would
commend it to
bush-dwellers -who
are in Sydney to
see their own spe-
cial sho w. Its
music, except for
lively numbers by
a fine orchestra, is
nothing wonderful,
and its voice«,
though pleasing,
are not so power-
ful as they need
to be; but alto-
gether it is light
and breezy and a
tip-top refresher.
* *
Wirths’ Circus
opened in Goul-
burn- street on
Saturday, drew
large crowds and
provided plenty of evidence that it sent them
away happy. It is the same glorious
youngsters’ show that it has always been,
and youngsters with ziffs a foot long were
noticed enjoying it. Plenty of humor, plenty
of excitement and plenty of the old familiar
smells. The Flying Lamars provide a
turn that’s a great thriller. One of them
fell —into the net, as it happened—and the
chorused “Oooh !” shook the tent. The Lias
troupe of somersaulters were another excel-
lent turn, and so was Chester Dieck, trick
cyclist; he was considerably helped by a
young lady who has studied the assistant
job and converted it into an art. Altogether,
a robust entertainment that entitles the
Wirths to claim that they are public bene-
factors, especially towards the small fry.
* ¥ *
“Spread Eagle,” presented at the Playbox,
Sydney, last Wednesday, is a melodrama of
international politics. It has brisk action,
humor and good spectacular and dramatic
qualities, and, in
common with
pretty well every-
thing that Duncan
Macdougall pro-
duces, has in it the
stuff •of thought.
11 is, howe V e r,
difficult, if not im-
possible, to get at
its real worth from
the Playbox pre-
sentation, w h ic h.
though it provides
a satisfying enter-
tainment, is ham-
pered by limita-
tions that permit
little more than a
clear telling of the
story and isolated
straight acting.
The playwrights,
George S. Brooks
and Walt e r B.
Lister, have hit
upon an ingenious
and feasible agent
for beginning an-
other tj.S. A.-Mexi-
can war. A big
company wlii c h
holds mining con-
cessions in the land
of greasers is toy-
ing with a scheme
for starting a re-
volution that will
cause United
States interven-
ti o n when th e
daughter of the
boss introduces the
son of an ex-Pre-
sident, a sapient
youth who wants
a job. He gets it
m Mexico; and the
revolution, financed
by the co., is im-
mediately launched. The shooting of
the lad is soon reported —Ex-President’s
Son Shot by Greasers—and the U.S.A.
marches on Mexico with astonishing
rapidity. The war is going strong, and
soldiers are being carted back sick and
wounded when the eX-Presidcnt’s sou turns
up after only a couple of Weeks’ absence and
with his wounds still bleeding. (Here, it
might be remarked, is evidence of a certain
rottenness in the State of Denmark. Dysen-
tery and like diseases do not ravage an
army in a matter of weeks, allowing that an
army might be mobilised and set scrapping
in that time. That is a fault of the play-
wrights. The arrival of the youth with
fresh red blood still on his head is some-
thing the producer ought to look into.) The
young man was convinced just before he was
shot that he had been used as a tool and is
keen on letting the cat out; but he is bluffed
out of this. An inspired story is given to th e
press which will him a national hero
instead of a martyr, and the man who started
it all is left with the punishment of having
to have his intended victim about him for ever
as a son-in-law.
Mattie Doyle gives a most convincing
characterisation of a Woman at the mining
camp. She does not last long—the unspeak-
able greasers shoot her—but while she is
at the camp the circumscribed stage is the
camp, in spite of all the dastardly, efforts of
a neighboring steel drill, the booming of the
post-office clock and the clanking machinery
of “The Wrecker” a few doors aWay to
prove that it’s merely an attic above Rowe-
street. J. M. C. Boult, as the employed
brains of the New York co., manages the
most sincere and credible acting that this
Showman has seen at the Playbox, and Ivan
Mitchell, as head of that firm, is also very
sound. Kenneth Barratt makes of the obscure
part of a greaser quite a tidy little job, and
Colin Eaton does passably well as the
unhappy vouth. Duncan Macdougall, as the
Mexican general, is good in violent action,
and gets some good humor into a caricature
part.
* * *
The declining days and nights of “The
Desert Song” at His Majesty’s, Melbourne,
were diversified by the temporary appear-
ance of Romola Hanstein in the role of
Margot. Thus the melodious extravaganza
had the privilege of beginning its season —
somewffiere away back in the Dark Ages—
with an imported English lady and finishing
it with two products of local singing con-
servatona. Romola displayed a pleasing ex-
tenor, a gay manner and an intelligent grasp
of whatever is coherent in the character ot
General Birabeau’s romantic daughter-in-
law; and there was nothing m the music
to affright her clear and bright soprano.
What with Lance Fairfax and Renee
Murphy and the famous ’bus horse and
donkey, “The Song” ended by being mainly
an Australian enterprise. The Bulletin
met the donkey going home from the show
the other night and engaged it in conver-
MATTIE DOYLE, who acts well in the Sydney Playbox
offering, “Spread Eagle.”
sation, hut it had no complaints except that
it hadn’t been asked to speak from its
dressing-room over 3LO, along with the
other principals.
H- * *
The only fixed things in a world of weekly
changes at the Regent, Melbourne, are the
orchestra of 45 which kisses its hand to the
classics and then takes hilariously to jazz;
the young man who gets up and wails
through a funnel about his coalblack
mammy; the third violin who has a mock
quarrel with the banjoist, and the Wur-
litzer which imitates trains. For the rest,
Hoyt’s beautiful theatre has “come into Mel-
bourne’s life dedicated for ever td the people’s
happiness” and two new pictures every
week. On Saturday “Annie Laurie,” with
tlie interesting Lilian Gish in the name part,
became the next seven days’ draw.
* * *
Nat Madison, with the good dramatic act
which has been outlined from Mel-
bourne, is in occupation now at Sydney
Tivoli. Shuron de Vries, a natty dancer
who leads a revue party, and Vine and Rus-
sell, English comedians, are the other top-
liners in a bill that has good entertainment
qualities.
* * *
On Saturday afternoon “This Year of
Grace” wall open at Melbourne Royal, and
in the evening “The Vagabond King” will
be installed at His Majesty’s.
¥ V
According to local advts., “The 1929
Model Revue” at Melb. Bij. is headed by
George Moon, Dan Morris, Nell Fleming. Les
Warton, Gwen Matthews, Nellie Lafferty,
George Moon, jun., Hal Cooper, Ivy Norton,
Durham Marcel and the Eight Exquisites.
That comprises the entire cast. Now who
says the Australian is a rude person?
* * ¥
The talking-drama, as seen at Adelaide
Wondergraph and with less insistence at
the Regent, is probably a big thing, but
in its infancy. Anyway, some of it has run
for a month.
¥ * *
The Nellie Bramleys, going as strong as
ever at Brisbane Royal, have turned loose
“The Lion and the Mouse” for this week.
The next offering is to be “The Queen of
Knaves.”


“Pioneer” Means Dependable Power Transmission.
r/v-
-8
What are your most difficult belting problems? Are
they heavy, gruelling main drives where the belt must
withstand the constant strain of transmitting hundreds
of horse-power day in and day out, or light, high-
speed drives where extreme accuracy is essential to
minimise vibration and slippage?
Whatever your problems may be you will find
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
absolutely dependable under all conditions of service. Our 70 years of belting
experience are at your disposal in helping to solve your particular problems.
We know working conditions.
J. C. LUDOWICI SON, LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, Sydney.
Pioneer Tanners and Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 20-26 Queen’s
Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey Fry, Ltd., Edward
Street, Brisbane;
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McTvell & Sons,
Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards & Upton,
Auckland.
Patterson 'i Barr, Ltd., Dunedin.
Why the Alexander Hamilton Institute
is different—
"VOU. can dip into it at any point and find immediately
“** a practical method, plan or idea, worked out and proved,
which you can put to work at once.
Altogether there are 5271 practical business ideas. "Forging
Ahead in Business,” which contains full information about
the Course and Service, is yours for the asking.
Send for it
Alexander Hamilton Institute
n CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY, n.s.w. B 6
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Howard Smith, Ltd.
, Dividends
Pref. To Re-
Dec., Profits. 6 p.c. Ord. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1918.. 96.794.30,000 10 p.e.= 149,790 17,004 93,435
1919.. 823.30.000 10 „ „ 150.000 21,823 115,258
Dropped into reserves, £523,456 ..638,714
1920.. 265.880.30,000 15 p.c.= 225,000 10,880 549,594
1921.. 784.30,000 15 „ „ 225,000 8.784 658,378
Pref. capital ( £600,000) returned.
1922.. 250.272.24,534 15 p.c.= 225,000 6,738 665,116
Profits. Ordinaries.
1923.. 189,410 15 p.c. = 225,000 — 029,526
Reserves capitalised, £600,000 . . . . 129,626
1924.. 265,464 12 p.c. = 240,000 25,404 154,990
Profit on liquidation of subsidiaries £91,976 240,966
1925.. 221,041 10 p.c. = 200.000 21,041 268,007
Taxation reserves taken in, £10,000 .. 278,007
1926.. 211,G08 10 p.c. = 200,000 11,008 289,615
Pref.,' Ord.,
6 p.c. 10 p.c.
1927.. 200,979 762 200,000 217 289,832
74 p.c.
1928.. 161,348 11,780 160,000 — 289,400
The cut of '2if p.c. in the div. rate fitted in
with market anticipations. There was more
capital to feed; the balance (£103,412) of
the 250,000 £1 0 p.c. cum. prefs. issued in
Sept., 1927, came in during the year, and up
to the time the books were ruled off at
Dec. 31 the new money had not brought in
anything in the way of divs. from the shares
in which it was invested. But it was chiefly
owing to poorer returns from the co.’s big
shipping interests that; the board wrote the
year’s net earning £39,631 below the 1927
figure. It was the most pronounced of four
consecutive drops, and the £161,348 of profit
claimed was the smallest since 1915. That
was the year following the big reconstruction
when the co.’s shipping and coal interests were
handed over to subsidiaries and the pref. div.
was lifted from 5 p.c. to 6 p.c. and the ords.
wei’e given five fully-paid shares and one paid
to 4s. for each £1 share held in the old co.—
£1,050,000 of bonus was thus handed out.
After prefs. were attended to, the balance of
last year’s net earnings was 7.4 p.c. on the
ordinary capital compared with 10, 10.5, 11
and 13.2 p.c. back to 1924, which was the
year following the last gift issue—-a round
half-million. Thus 771 p.c. of the present
£2,000,000 of ord. capital has been provided
mostly out of inner reserves. The last lot
of bonus scrip had its origin in the fat pro-
fits won during the war years, but conditions
have changed since then. Taking the decade
covered by the table, the average net profit
(£212,088) over the last half was £23,346
poorer than the average net earnings for the
first half. But the average amount paid in
dividends (£200,508, including £12,562 of
pref. requirements) during the last half called
for £32,399 less than the mean of the dis-
tributions over the first half, when £114,534
was handed out on a round half-million of
pref. capital, which was returned in 1921.
However, the co.’s position cannot be
judged entirely on those figures. Howard-
Smiths is now mainly a holding concern, and
its published accounts tell no more than they
have to. As most of the co/s interests are
now in N. S. Wales headquarters were moved
from Melbourne to Sydney during the year.
The chief source of profit is the old Howard-
Smith line, now Australian Steamships Pty.,
Ltd., in which it holds all the capital, except
the signatory shares. Next in importance
are its coal investments, as this interesting
little table shows : —
Howard Last
Issued Smith’s Ord.
Capital. Holding. Div.
Aus. S.S. Pty., Ltd.. . £1,850,002 £1,849,990 —
Caledonian Col., Ltd.’. 1,487,894 1,191,276* 5p.c.
Invincible Col., Ltd... 104,000 66,321 74 „
Aus. Iron and Steel . . 3,100,007 400,000 Nil
S. Portland Cement . . 639,885 248,000 Nil
Vickers Commonwealth
Steel Products .. 318,193 61,300
S. Blue Metal Quarries 248,000 48,000 Nil
*325,034 6 p.c. prefs. and 866,242 ords.
The shipping subsidiary does not publish its
figures, but the marine cooks’ strike, and
later the trouble with the waterside work-
ers, each of which held up inter-State ship-
ping for a while, and a shrinkage in the
volume of freights generally must have eaten
into earnings. It lias been estimated that
last year the takings of Australian coastal
steamers were about £800,000 short of the
previous year’s figure. Caledonian Collieries,
Ltd., owns seven pits on the northern N. S.
Wales field, including the four Aberdares,
which are working on the best and least
expensive seam of coal in the State. Last
year its admitted net earnings w r ere £79,105,
or £20,246 more than in 1927, and its ord.
div. was lifted a point, making it 5 p.c. And
that notwithstanding the acute depression
which marks the present crisis in the trade.
Thus, although the Invincible Cos., which
operates on the Western field, paid only 7*
p.c. as against 10 p.c. in 1927, the parent
received in divs. from its coal investments
£67,788, or about £7OOO more than in the
previous year. However, the outlook in the
industry is one of diminishing rather than
increasing profits, and the Caledonian Cos. will
be fortunate if its net earnings escape dam-
age. In addition to the investments enumer-
ated in the table, Howard-Smiths also has a
substantial holding in the Australian Sugar
Cos., Ltd. (paid capital £207,915), which has
paid 12 p.c. for the last four year, and 20
p.c. for the two years before that. How
the co.’s recent investments in Australian
Iron and Steel, Ltd. —incidentally, 50,000 of
the 400,000 ords. held was a gift—and in the
cement and quarry cos. are going to pan out
remains to be seen. It was mainly to finance
the purchase of scrip in these cos. that
the pref. capital was issued in 1927.
The co., by the way. gathers some nice
pickings as agent and manager for a num-
ber of the concerns in which it is interested,
but to what extent profits have benefited
from this source cannot be ascertained from
the published figures. Future agency, etc.,
earnings should greatly benefit as the result
of recent investments.
Owing to an increase of £00,704 in the
debt, the excess of liabilities over liquids
increased £13,687 during the year:—
1924. 1927. 1928.
Liquid assets ..£347.716 £373,094 £420,711
Liabilities .. .. 674,002 003,629 664,333
Excess liabilities.. £326,286 £229,935 £243,622
That is apart from shares in other cos., in
at valuation, £2,681,920, up £73,400 during
the year. The figure is greatly below the
aggregate face value of the holdings, but
whatever inner reserve, if any, there may
be in that entry is certainly nothing
approaching the difference between the face
and book values of the scrip, some of which
may not have been fully paid when the books
last closed. In the last 14 years the book
value of the shipping subsidiary’s assets has
been severely written up, and the same
applies to the Caledonian Cos., whose pound
ords. are now worth about 12s. on the
market. Freeholds figure at £109,996, up
£14,562; leasehold, £15,402; plant, £49,393.
Taking the assets, including shares in
other cos., at their book value, the cover
for the 250,000 prefs., which carry a cumu-
lative 6 p.c., and have priority as to capital,
was over £lO per share in net tangibles; and
last year’s net profit was over 10 times their
full annual requirements. The market prices
them around par. For the ords., which were
priced at 28s. a year ago, 255. 7d. is now
paid. The return at the current price is
only 5.8 p.c. on a 74 p.c. div. basis: the
backing amounts to 225. lid. in net tangibles.
South Australian Brewing Cos.
Writ- Added Nomi-
ten to Re- mil Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Feb., £ £ £ £ £
1918.. 32,174 8J p.c. = 21,875 10,299 54,384
1919.. 32,294 10 „ „ 25,000 7,294 54.384
1920.. 32,468 10 „ „ 25.000 7,250 218 54,602
1921.. 29,924 10 „ „ 25,000 4,750 174 54,776
1922.. 30,821 10 „ „ 25,000 5,821 54,776
Reserves.
1923.. 37,515 10 „ „ 25,000 12,515 54,776
1924.. 38,847 10 „ „ 25,000 8,000 5847 60,023
Added to reserves, £89,377 .. .. 150,000
Reserves capitalised, £150,000
1925.. 43,319 10 p.c.= 32,500 8,000 2819 2.519
1926.. 54,747 10 „ „ 40,000 10,000 4747 7,560
1927.. 57,553 10 „ ~ 40,000 10,000 7553 15,119
Freehold depreciation and insur-
ance reserves taken in £60,065 . . 75,184
1928. . 54,119 10 p.c. = 40,000 10,000 4119 79,303
Reserves brought to light, £44,756 . . 124,059
Reserves capitalised, £IOO,OOO . . 24,059
1929.. 64,045 10 p.c. = 50,000 10,000 4045 28,104
Early in the last term shareholders in this
Adelaide co. were handed £IOO,OOO of bonus
scrip, one for four. Thus, with the £150,000
of reserves capitalised in 1924, paid capital,
now a round half-million, has been doubled
in the last four years. For 35 years before
that capital had remained steady at £250,000.
Of last year’s gift, £50,000 came from
the freehold depreciation reserve, thus ex-
tinguishing that account, and £5244 from the
undistributed p. and 1. balance; and the
rest (£44,756) was apparently shaken out
from the heap labelled “sundry creditors and
provision for taxation, etc.” Two years ago
no reserve against taxation, etc., appeared
in the sheet, and sundry creditors alone then
figured at £168,004. At the close of accounts
in 1927 the combined items stood at
£211,887; the amount was £156,179 at Feb.
28 last. In 1924 visible accumulations of
one kind and another provided £83,301 of
the gift ; the balance (£66,699) came from
the cupboard where the inner reserves are
kept. In the same year £150,000 of deben-
ture debt was paid off. Nevertheless, de-
clared net- earnings have practically doubled
in the last half-dozen years, and the 10 p.c.
div. has’ been thus maintained on capital as
increased with apparent ease. Visible accu-
mulations now look very slender alongside
paid capital; at Feb. 28 they were made up
of the insurance reserve (£11,348) and the
undistributed balance of the p. and. 1. account
(£16,756), after allowing for the final div.
and £IO.OOO visibly struck off plant, etc. But
if last year’s capitalisation was justified, as
it appears to be, then too much notice need
not be taken of the profit figures hitherto
published. It is now plain that they may
have from time to time been understated by
at least £111,455, of which £G6,699 was
brought from hiding in 1924. Incidentally,
there are reserves against sundry debtors
and secured advances, both of which were
drawn upon in the 1924 capitalisation. The
amounts wore £6512 and £17,424 respectively
at Feb. 28, 1927, but at the last two balanc-
ing dates the figures have been slipped under
cover.
Last year’s gross profit on sales and the
net profit at branches (£56,539) fell away
£5104, the drop over the last two years
amounting to £11,092, but that was after an
unspecified amount had been whisked' away
to provide for taxation and depreciation.
Rents and interest (£41,614) brought in an
extra £13,867, and since exes. (£35,392) were
only a trifle heavier the net result, including
£1284 that was slipped into the insurance
reserve without comment, benefited by £9926,
and was 12. S p.c. on paid capital. It is clear
that of recent years the co. has been raking
in profits in fine style despite various adverse
trading conditions in S. Aus. and the closing
of tfie branch brewery at Broken Hill about
three years ago—supplies are now sent from
Adelaide.
This next comparison of balance-sheet
figures shows how the business has bounded
ahead:—
1924. 1926. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital . £400,000 £400,000 £400,000 £500,000
Liabilities .. 257,197 135,079 212,081 156,311
Property, plant,
etc 445,518 401,714 444,791 413,015
Stocks . . .. 17,514 17,844 24,173 26,315
Book debts . . 35,190 48,555 47,369 48,769
Advances .. 52,954 142,359 195,035 209,576
Debenture
trustees .. 71,479
Cash ... .. 24,733 19,775 10,017 21,740
For the 12 months to Feb. 28, 1927, £27,107
more was spent on freeholds, brewery and
plant, etc., than was written off, but last
year £31,770 more was written off than was
spent, on those items, and that was in addi-
tion to the visible provision for depreciation
referred to above and any expenditure of
a capital nature that might have been charged
against revenue. Another encouraging fea-
ture is the rapid growth in secured advances,
which have increased £156,622 in the last
five years, the expansion last year being
£14,541. In addition to nice interest earn-
ings, this must mean bigger sales, which
augurs well for future earnings. And the
financial position is becoming rapidly -more
snug. In 3924 liabilities exceeded the more
or less liquids, including stocks, by £55,327;
at the close of last accounts the more or less
liquid surplus had mounted to £150,089, up
£55,57G during the year. But most of the
latter increase was due to the previous over-
statement of liabilities.
What the true position is only those in-
side know, and then it is partly a matter of
guess-work, for they cannot be sure what
contingencies will have to be met. In the
co.’s home State the substantial amount of
capital invested in wine-growing affords a
strong protection against the probabilities
of any serious interference with the trade.
The market, confident that the present rate
qf div. can be maintained, prices the scrip
at 355. Od. After allowing for the final div.
the return at that figure is 5.8 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis. The visible backing
amounts to only 21s. Id. in net tangibles.
Wright, Heaton and Cos., Ltd. (Sydney).
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profits. Bonuses. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
July, ’l9 .. 13,067 10 p.e. = 6562 6,505 77,597
Reserved for taxes £BOOO .. .. 69,597
Jan., ’2O .. 25,878 11 p.c. = 7663 18,315 87,912
Reserved for taxes, £SOOO .. .. 82,912
July, ’2O .. 23,275 12 p;c. = 8250 15,025 97,937
Jan., ’2l .. 14,030 12 „ „ 8250 5,780 103,717
July, '2l . . 12,225 12 „ „ 8250 3,975 107,692
Jan., ’22 .. 9,489 12 „ „ 8250 1,239 108,931
July, ’22 .. 9,382 12 „ „ 8250 1,132 110,003
Jan., ’23 .. 12,941 12 „ „ 8250 4,691 114,754
July, ’23 .. 15,904 12 „ „ 8250 7,654 122,408
Written off Gold’s Debentures.. £SOOO 117,408
Jan., ’24 .. 13,073 13* p.c.= 9281 3,792 121,200
Internal reserves disclosed. . £20,000 141,200
July., ’24 .. 17,028 15 p.c. = 10,312 6,716 147,916
Jan., ’25 . . 16,476 16j „ „ 11,344 5,132 153,048
July, ’25 . . 18,242 19 „ „ 13,063 5,179 158,227
Jan., ’26 . . 14,945 20 „ „ 13,750 1,195 159,422
July, ’26 .. 15,227 20 „ ~13,750 1,477 160,899
Jan., ’27 . . 15,710 20 „ „ 13,750 1,960 162,859
July, ’27 .. 17,785 20 „ ~13,750 4,035 166,894
Jan., ’2B . . 17,799 20 „ „ 13,750 3,049 170,943
July, ’2B . . 15,085 20 „ „ 13,750 1,335 172,278
.Tan., ’29 .. 15,37'5 20 „ „ 13,750 1,625 173,903
Faced with the necessity of doing some-
thing to relieve the pressure of profits the
board of this prosperous carrying, produce
and general merchandising business considered
the question of a bonus issue four years ago;
it was even tentatively suggested that the
basis of distribution should be one for one.
Instead it was decided to increase the div..
which, after remaining steady at 10 p.c. for
the 14 years to 1920, had climbed to 15 p.c.
in 1924; it was lifted to 20 p.c. early m
1926 and has been kept at that rate since.
Much of the co.’s success has been due to
the remarkable capacity of the management
for adapting itself to the many changes that
have taken place in the country life of
N. S. Wales and to the board's sound policy
of consistently building up the reserve
strength. Not only is the co.’s purse now
bulging, but the size of the family stocking is
becoming conspicuous also, despite occasional
emptyings. During the seven years to 1917
£45,000 of bonus scrip was handed out. Two
years later £25,000 was distributed in cash;
then, in 1924, £20.000 was brought from
hiding and put in the window; and shar?"
holders were told only a year ago that £20,000
of inner reserves had been used to further
write down the book value of premises and
plant. That, of course, was in addition to
the ordinary provision for depreciation. Not-
withstanding all this the accumulation exhi-
bited at .Tan. 51 was £30,403 in excess of
paid capital.
For the 12 months to the closie of last
accounts gross profits (£128,468) fell away
£6S6I, but after setting aside £IO,OOO for
taxation and handing out £2314 in bonuses
to the staff the shrinkage in the net result
was only £5124. But there is nothing to
cause concern in those movements. In 192 i
a dry spell in the country districts which
the co. serves enabled the management to
sell more stock food than usual and profits
reaped the benefit. Last year, owing to the
decision of the oil cos. to distribute in bulk,
this co. was not able to dispose of so much
petrol as formerly. Nevertheless the £30.460
of profit claimed was 22.1 p.e. on paid capital
compared with 25.8, 22.5, 24.1, 25.4, -1.1
and 1(5.2 p.e. back to 1923.
Moreover, the business is reported to be
expanding, and movements in balance-sheet
figures support the claim :
1919. 1920. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital. . £137,500 £137,500 £137,500 £137,500
liabilities .. 70,930 105,830 142,532 120,939
Premises, plant,
etc . . 21,152 54,674 40,008 47,940
Stocks . . 57,728 81,724 98,749 113,390
Book debts . . 125,170 141,182 157,895 196,787
McCulloch Cos. 44,760 95,828 67,549 67,887
Cash & invest-
ments .. 46,330 49,225 108,119 29.075
During the year cash and investments were
drawn upon for £79,044, thus enabling the
board to clip £21,598 off the debt, spend
£7332 more on freehold and plant than was
written off, add £14,641 to the book value of
stocks and carry an extra £38,892 of book
debts. It all looks promising for future earn-
ings. In the McCulloch co., the subsidiary
which comprises the Vic. end of the busi-
ness. Wright, Heaton own £25,000 of scrip.
The difference between that figure and the
entry in the table represents advances. Ex-
cluding the scrip the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£261,200) was only £3580 lighter than
at the previous balance.
There are 55,000 shares fully paid to
£2 10s. each. The backing at the close of
last accounts figured out at_£s 13s. 2d. per
share, and no less than £4 15s. of it was re-
presented by surplus liquids, including stock.
The market has long anticipated the future,
and for the last three years the price of the
scrip has been fairly steady around £B.
Recently £8 ss. was bid ; at which figure the
return, is 6 p.c. on a 20 p.c. div. basis.
Foster Brewing Cos., Ltd. (Melb.).
Net To Re-
Jan. Profit. Dividend. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1919.. 5,901 8 p.e. = 4,608 1,293 23,743
1920.. 6,874 9i „ „ 5,328 546 24,289
1921.. 8,029 12 „ „ 6,912 1,117 25,406
1922.. 9,557' 13 „ „ 7,488 2,069 27,475
1923.. 10,332 16 9,216 1,116 28,591
1924.. 12,363 20 „ „ 11,520 843 29,434
1925.. 12,541 20 „ „ 11,520 1,012 30.455
1926.. 13,007 20 „ „ 11,520 1,489 31,942
1927.. 15,249 24*,, ~ 14,112 1,137 33,079
1928.. 15,242 24$ „ „ 14,112 1,130 34,20?
1929.. 15,344 24J „ „ 14,112 1,232 35,441
This is one of the original half-dozen cos.
in Melbourne’s big brewery merger of 21
years ago, and it isn’t in much else now. Paid
capital is £57,600, and reserves amounting
to £35,441 had been visibly accumulated at
Jan. 31. To represent tliese funds and a
trifle coming to creditors (£153) there were
shares in Carlton and United Breweries —■
72,500 ords. and 10,549 7 p.c. cum. prefs.,
which advance with the ords. in any distri-
bution beyond that rate —in at £84,780
(cost) ; book debts, £7267 ; stock and cash,
£8202.
The position, therefore, is governed by
results in the operating co. The brisk ad-
vance in the div. rate from 8 p.c. 10 years
ago to 241 p.c. in 1927 —the latter rate has
been repeated twice since—corresponds with
the growth in returns from the holdings in
the C.U.8., which paid only 7 p.c. in 1919,
but for the 21 years to June 30 last the
rate has been at 171 p.c. Thus the Foster
co. now receives £14,533 annually in divs.,
which, together with £407 of interest, etc.,
and a special payment of £773 from the
C.U.8., made the year’s income £15,713.
After paying a handful of exes. (£369) the
declared net profit was 26.6 p.c. on paid capi-
tal. That, however, does not represent Hie


MARY ANN STREET, ULTIMO.
SPECIAL OBSTETRIC BEDSTEAD.
Can be separated for purpose of operation, etc. Fitted
with stirrup attachments and telescopic legs at foot.
Wholesale only,
LL
An all-square design in the latest style
of low-height Bedstead. Can be made
in all brass, all nickel, or in steel and
nickel.
Manufacturers of all kinds of Metallic Beds for the
Household, Hospitals, Ships, Institutions, or for any
special purpose.
Established 1859.
Still leaders of the trade with ranges of new designs.
THE LARGEST PLANT OF ITS KIND IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE
Manufacturers also of Wood Beds, Ice Chests, Mattresses, Chairs, Overmantels, also Steel Shelving, Lockers and Cupboards.
<SS!
ii»
Adjustable Shelving, Clothes
Lockers, Storage Cabinets, Cup-
boards, Plan Cabinets, etc.
STEEL CLOTHES LOCKERS.
Steel Lockers with olive-green surface,
adopted by all large, up-to-date establish-
ments for employees’ belongings; also in
public institutions. Made in single units,
in rows against walls or back to back
down centres of rooms, they may be
installed in any number desired to fit
space and needs.
Forster’s Seventy-Years Reputation
Proves that “Quality Counts.
To maintain a solid reputation for
quality and fair dealing for over
seventy years has been the achieve-
ment of Forster s. That reputation, so
solidly built, still stands behind all
present activities of this firm.
“Quality Counts” has always been
and will ever continue to be the
watchword. Those who place
orders for the New Adjustable Steel
Products may do so with the utmost
confidence.
STEEL STORAGE CABINETS.
Excellent for keeping hospital and office
supplies, books, records, papers, protected
against dust, damp and vermin. Fitted
with keys, all different, these Cabinets
are made for anything needing extra
security.
Usual size; sft. 6in. high, 2ft. 6in. wide.
MARY ANN
STREET, ULTIMO, SYDNEY.
’Phone: M 4247 (3 lines).


Are Your Invest-
ments ROCKY?
MORE THAN HALF
OF ALL REGISTERED
COMPANIES FAIL.
<r
ONLY THE EXPERT
CAN READ THE SIGNS
Australia’s leading ex-
pert is
“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY.”
MARCH NUMBER NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY. 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
From Newsagents, or “Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
We stock + GF + Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth. — Advt.
* # * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Svvanston Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
Every engineer who has to deal with fluid con-
veyance of any description cannot possibly overlook
the remarkable claims of Pioneer Wood Pipe. This
modern conduit has proved its efficiency on many
important installations in Australia, and is cheaper
to instal, cheaper to maintain, easier to handle, and
has a far longer useful life than metal piping. In
addition it is positively non-corrosive, so that it
will carry any type of fluid with equally good
results. Illustrated book of valuable information
free on request. The Australian W T ood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane
Cove, N.S.W. ; and at Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
* * * *
W. Soren Jensen, Mining Engineer, Assoc. 1.M.M.,
London, M.A.1.M.E., A.C.T.S.M., etc., 33 Boyle
Street, Cremarne, Sydney. Box 220 D., G.P.0.,
Sydney. ’Phone, BWIIO6.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hasssel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castiereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.— Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Com.ison & Co., 483 Collins Street,-Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * 4;
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree.— Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MaDE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
Get your
x«
TS
PAINTS and
VARNISHES
from
AGENTS
EVERYWHERE.
THEY "KEEP ON KEEPING ON!”
&
YC
3 o on
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
$8
DT
'Lgwift & Company Ltd.. Austraiasian Ajents, 26 30 Clarence St., Sydney Jj
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Offices Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in. Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-Glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone,
etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
full measure of what the co.'s assets earned.
The operating co. did not distribute £104,670
of its net earnings for its last trading period.
The Foster co.’s proportion of that amount
was £4333. equal to another 7.5 p.c. on its
paid capital, thus making the year’s total
net earnings equal to 34.1 p.c. This, of course,
gives the 24£ p.c. div. a different complexion.
Also there is a tidy inner reserve in the
co.’s C.TJ.B. holdings. At June 30, 1928. the
operating co.’s visible lay-by amounted to
£1,177,173, which was subject to £BOO.OOO
originally paid for the goodwill of the amal-
gamated cos.; but much of the froth has
since been displaced by revenue-producing
assets of a tangible character. On the
figures as published the Foster co.’s share of
C.U.B.’s visible accumulation is £48,735. and
of the intangibles, £33,120. In addition it
had reserves of its own amounting to £35,441
at Jan. 31. Thus each of the 57.600 pound
shares had a visible backing of 375. 9d. in
net tangibles.
Confident that the trade will not be inter-
fered with as a result of next year’s referen-
dum on the liquor question in Vic., the
market is attracted by the snug position and
fine performances of the big operating concern,
which, at the close of its last accounts, exhi-
bited a more or less liquid surplus of no less
than £1,405,542. and for that year netted
23.4 p.c. on its £1,950.000 of paid capital
compared with 23.1, 21.6 and 22.5 p.c. back
to 1925. In that year it greatly strengthened
its hold on the trade by absorbing the very
profitable Melbourne Co-operative Brewery,
Fitzgeralds (Castlemainfe) and Cohns (Ben-
digo ).
The highest prices paid in the call room
for Foster’s scrip were 555. in 1920; 615.,
1927 ; 675., 1925. The best recent bid was
80s., but it failed to attract sellers. At the
current offer the return is 6.1 p.c. on a
244 p.c. div. basis.
Civil Service Stores (Sydney).
Dividend (8 p.c.)
and Bonus on
Net Purchases To Re- Re-
Profits. (10 p.c.). serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
Jan., 1925 . . 20.090 15,200 4890 74,709
July, 1925 .. 14,803 12,377 2426 77,135
Jan., 1926 . . 19,682 18,039 1643 78,778
July, 1926 . . 16,494 16,055 439 79,217
Jan., 1927 . . 23,508 21,623 1885 81,102
Preliminary exes., £4354 .. .. 76,748
July, 1927 .. 25,093 23,378 1715 78,463
Written off, £15,566 . . . • 62,897
Added prelim, exes., £19,809 . . 43,088
Jan., 1928 . . 22,769 23,734 42,123
Unexplained reduction in prelim.
exes., £11,037 .. .. .. 53.160
Loss.
July, 1928.. 3,718 Nil 49,442
Added prelim, exes., £192.. .. 49,250
Jan., 1929 . . 18,773 Nil 30,477
Each week's trading operations continue to
pile up fat losses, and business should be
continued only if there is a prospect of selling
the undertaking as a going concern in the near
future. So says the committee appointed to
investigate the society's affairs. Failing this the
committee considers that the business should
be wound up immediately, and that future
actions of the society should be postponed
until the premises are sold, with or without
the business. And shareholders have in-
structed the new board, the ballot for which
closed last week, to act upon the commit-
tee's report.
It is one of the most sudden and complete
collapses of a hitherto prosperous business
that have occurred of recent years. For about
27 years the society occupied a leasehold at
a low rental in one of the busiest parts of
the city, where it catered for a trade in liigh-
elass goods, and where a considerable good-
will was attached to the position. It had
practically nothing, except a few improve-
ments, in bricks and mortar, and its trade
being chiefly on a cash basis it got through
on a handful of capital. Thus blessed, the
mistakes of the management were hidden.
When the lease of the Pitt-street premises
fell in it was not renewed. Instead, a free-
hold (part of Lassetter’s old premises in
George-street) was bought and an imposing
new building put up thereon. Thus the
lease, in at £4346 at Jan. 31, 1925, was re-
placed by freehold with a book value of
£373,776 at Jan. 31 last. Over the same
period £264,596 of new capital was got in,
making the total £292,596, a mortgage of
£147,400 was raised on the new premises,
and an extra £67,696 was tacked on to the
amount coming to sundry creditors (£97.870).
This comparison of balance-sheet figures
shows what lias taken place:—
Jan., Jan., Jan., Jan.,
1925. 1927. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital .. £28,000 £185,583 £246,357 £292.596
Mortgages . . 182,400 147,400 147,400
Sundry creditors 30,174 28,365 142,738 97,870
Leasehold
premises .. 4,346 1,417
Freehold
premises .. 315,385 360,851 373,776
Furniture and
fittings .. 26,148 31,871 89,005 87,436
Stocks . . 70,754 66,079 121,443 77,497
Debtors . . 17,065 21,753 23,855 26.788
Cash, invest-
ments, etc... 29,769 62,569 7,197 2,846
At January 31, 1928, freehold and plant re-
presented over SI p.c. of total tangible assets.
At their last balancing dates Farmer and
Cos. and David Jones had 65.2 p.c. and 60.1
p.c. of their respective balance-sheet totals
in fixed assets. The society’s position clearly
called for very careful handling by men
highly skilled in modem trading conditions.
Unfortunately for “The Stores” its board
was comprised of men who, for the most
part, had little practical experience in mer-
chandising. New lines were added to stocks,
but turnover fell away following the change
in location, and prices were cut in an effort
to hold trade. The result for the half-year
to Jan. 31 was a loss of £18,773; that in-
cluded a loss of £7OOO on the sale of stocks
to Horderns’. Of the new departments created
eight were recently closed, but the manage-
ment was unable to let the space which thus
became available. Even if all available
space was let at full rental values insufficient
business was being done to carry the cost
of that portion of the premises retained by
the society for its own trading, the investi-
gating committee says.
At Jan. 31 the whole of the paid capital
was intact; and there was £30,477 of nomi-
nal reserves besides. All but a trifle of the
lot was represented by premises and plant.
The more or less liquids, including stocks,
were only £9261 in excess of the floating
debt. As things now stand the position of
shareholders is mainly governed by the price
that can be obtained for the premises. The
chances of selling the business as a going
concern, which implies the sale of goodwill,
ate not at all bright. What trading lossts
are likely to pile up meanwhile depends largely
ujpon the figure at which stocks have been
taken into the sheet.
Westralia has produced over £7,000,000
worth of minerals other than gold. Improved
prices are expected to give lead- and copper-
mining a leg-up, but apart from the Whim
Well copper-mines and perhaps a lead show
or two at Northampton, prices will have to
soar a bit higher before they can bring about
the revival that is predicted. Whim Well
is a good show which in the past has been
strangled by weak finances.
* =i= * *
“Old Warden”: The Federal Government
has not incurred the charge of extravagance
by its offer to subsidise the mining industry
with £25,000. It is proposed to devote this
splendid sum to grants for developmental
purposes in cases recommended by the De-
velopment and Migration Commission on cer-
tain conditions. These are, roughly, that the
proposed development shows good prospects
of finding work for large numbers of people;
that there is reasonable indication of a long
life for the mine; that the proposals for
development are on a sound economic basis;
and that those concerned show a “reason-
able” disposition to obtain as much of the
plant required as possible in Australia. The
scheme is stamped with the futility one
expects from its originators. To a big com-
pany the sum allotted would mean barely
more than preliminary expenses for any
scheme of developing propositions already
discovered, while the conditions as given in-
dicate that the development would have to
be practically completed before any of the
money would be available. For the man
who is the foundation-stone of gold-mining,
the prospector-digger, whose unending search
has brought to light all the great mining
propositions the world has seen, there
seems to be no provision at all. The expen-
diture of the money on expert prospecting
parties well equipped with modern transport,
and with adequate supplies, would probably
yield far better results than the nebulous
scheme outlined by the sages of Canberra.
* * * *
Perth is still without a live Stock
Exchange. The one it possesses has a
membership of less than a dozen, and appar-
ently the principal reason for its existence
is the privilege by which only Stock Ex-
change members can pocket commission on
Commonwealth loan issues. Threats to
establish a rival exchange have been made
from time to time, but nothing has come
of them.
* * * *
Westralian Shareholders are wondering
what fees, such as stamp duties, will be
assessed in connection with the purchase con-
sideration paid by Uake View and Star for
the Golden Horseshoe. The principal con-
sideration is 900,000 Lake View and Star
shares, and as Lake View has not paid a
div. for years the problem of assessing the
actual value of the shares appears difficult.
Probably the face value of the scrip, 4s. a
share, will be accepted.
* * * *
Word comes from London that the new
issue of Star Emerald (W.A.) shares will
give the co. an additional £12,000 to search
for gems. London financial papers have a
down on the venture. One refers to “the
nasty taste left in the mouths of investors
by the way the property has been handled.”
<s Hs He *
Rawang Tin Fields, the amalgamation of
Rawang, Serendah and Serendah South
which this page predicted a year ago, has
taken shape with the formal registration of
the co. in the F.M.S., and Alluvial Tin,
which is responsible for the welding of its
subsidiaries into one, has announced the de-
tails to shareholders in the various cos.
The new co.’s capital is a million in
2,000.000 10s. shares. Of the 1.752,000 to be
issued Rawang will take four shares for each
£l share in the original c 0.—960,000 shares.
Serendah’s share will be 396,000, twelve 10s.-
paids for every five £1 shares of its present
capital, and Serendah will take the same
number at the same ratio. Considerations
of economy of working and adminis-
tration have induced the amalgamation.
A couple of years ago the combining of
Larut with Kota, Tupai and Settlements
showed the advantages to be gained by put-
ting contiguous properties under one man-
agement. Alluvial, closely connected with
the Larut interests, took the lesson to heart,
and followed it up with the formation last
year of Kampar Tin Fields, in which Tan-
jong Tualong, Kuala Kampar and Malim
Nawar South joined forces with profitable
results. It is anticipated that the Rawang
Tin Fields’ yardage of 130,000,000 will run
from 3lb. to 31b. per c.y., which is on the
optimistic side. Rawang itself, the only
property to have been worked as yet, has
averaged round about .6411). to the yard
with dredge and sluicing plant for a long
time, and has been more often than. not
below that average. A. R. Penman, who
bored Serendah for Tanali Riji, the Allu-
vial Tin Subsidiary which floated it and
Serendah South, estimated 16,000.000 yards
would go a pound. Serendah South was
similarly sized up as holding 20,000,000
yards of pound ground. Supposing these
original estimates are correct, it is hard
to see where the 31b. stuff comes in.
* * * *
Kuala Lumpur, a Melbourne-Malayan
show floated in 1923 to take over what was
left of Kalumpang Tin, has announced itself
satisfied with the activities of the year to
September last. The co. took over 53 acres
from Kalumpang, and subsequent additions,
including some rubber-bearing land, have in-
creased its holding to nearly 900 acres.
It started work with a Victorian-built
dredge purchased from the Trong company;
in 1926 another dredge from Holland was
added. The operations of the second dredge
are reflected by an increase of 187 tons in the
year’s output (506 tons), but, owing to
mechanical troubles and constructional de-
fects, much time has been lost with it. At
the date of the report additional repairs
and adjustments were required, but, these
completed, it is expected the plant will be
able to handle the work required of it. Not-
withstanding the increased output, the year’s
net profit with two dredges working was
only £35,745 as against £34,379 the year
before. Two dividends of Is. a share took
£10,040, and £17,486 was put aside for de-
preciation. That left a balance of £52,116,
against £53,897 brought down. In spite of
the dredge troubles the co. has been getting
good recoveries and good averages. The
January average for the old dredge was
I.lllb. per c.y. and for No. 2 .711 b., while
the latter jumped to .811 b. for February on
a turnover of 164,000 yards—the dredge
was designed to a minimum capacity of
130,000 yards per month. The £1 shares
were quoted in Melbourne at b. 335. 6d., s.
345. last week-end.
* * * *
The venerable Tongkah Compound—it was
floated in Melbourne 19 years ago—has an-
nounced a net profit of £72,816 for the finan-
cial year ending September 30 last.. With
the carry-over from the last distribution,
£54,517 was available, and £33,639 of this
was paid out in two dividends of Is. 6d. each.
The co. stands well, liabilities being practi-
cally nil, while liquid assets, not counting
shares in associated companies (£47,153),
are £27,557. Cash on deposit and in hand is
£21,048, and £107,924 was realised from t.o.
won. Dividends on shares in Tongkah Com-
pound No. 2 increased this by £2034. The
original area worked by the co. paid divi-
dends amounting to £1 Bs. lOd. per share
(then paid up to 6s. Bd. per share) during
the period 1911-20 inclusive. Transfer from
the old Puket area to the present Mantin-
getul site, where two dredges are working,
has put the co. again on good ground, and,
as the above figures show, earning good
money. Authorised capital of £250,000 in
£1 shares has now been all called up. The
shares were b. 50s. 6d. at the week-end.
* * * *
Puchong Tin, one of Austral Malay’s sub-
sidiaries which is not yet producing, changed
the type of its dredge from a light steam to
a heavy electrically-operated machine suit-
able for deep digging. To meet the extra
cost shareholders are now offered 30,000 new
£1 shares at par, one for five. It is esti-
mated that a further £20,000, which the
board has arranged to borrow, will be needed
before production commences. Paid capital
is now £150,000 in fully-paid £1 shares, for
which sellers ask 255., equal to 245. 2d. after
allowing for the rights.
Cock's Gold and Tin Mine Eldorado
(Vic.) seems to be on its last legs after HU
years’ valuable work, during which time the
total value of the gold won has exceeded
£500,000. Values are too low to pay, although
working costs are much below those of simi-
lar sluicing operations in the Malay States
tin-mines. The old MeEvoy co. seems to have
taken out all the payable wash from the
present workings. One hundred and ten
miners and timber-cutters have been dis-
missed and 100 hoi’ses have been dispensed
with. The pay-sheet has been about £6OO a
fortnight, and £II,OOO worth of firewood
has been used every year. This is another
sad instance in which the light of other
days has faded.


%m
'Cm
Him- ~a\\
s
'Em
\\ v
Jih. %L^mk
s \\
\ w
•L
m
/
mi t
\\ \
HZ
It
e
£ll It
I
av
Ni
\ '
eaußJiDtj’i^— /jj
s®
ifKnunnn
in
w-
r\\-
gmUDGW
■Hi
M/'-
\3»
7/
S
%>,
■ ■
\\
rml
I
u
\\
tr=J/I
~T*
\
V
*>■
‘.r'-w
\\>
t
<S».
i=i « •
itnrPTTTt,
AJ
_ >
*
test
W 8
7,
•!.'
H
8
-Sv
a
\\
* ••
Lilli
mm
.
*?i£'Awv
iStnjFi'tZ
nXi
i
(\W'W*
l\\M
&\\
»>»»
?3f=
>y
BS
-Z0
-/
\a
r
./:
j
i
c/
//a
lilt
X
-sljfl
7/,
m
mm
ml
f
w
V.
N
\
\
m
4
HI
f
»el
iv
8
"H m
X 5
N
\*
i^
%
2Uk
til
Melbourne
THIS TUDOR BATTERY, consisting
of 284 cells, having a capacity of 4000
ampere hours at the one hour rate of
discharge, was installed in the Melbourne
City Council Sub-station at Heffernan
Lane in 1912.
For Sixteen Years this Battery gave
Reliable and Trouble-free Service.
It has just now been equipped with new positive plates; the negative plates showing practically no
signs of depreciation.
This is another of the many instances where TUDOR BATTERIES have proved their
RELIABILITY AND LONG LIFE.
TUDOR BATTERIES for COUNTRY HOUSE AND FARM LIGHTING PLANT are designed
and built upon exactly the same engineering principles as the most important batteries for services
of public utility and defence.
In addition to this, TUDOR Country House Batteries embody all the latest improvements that
have been specially designed for the convenience of country users, including complete sealing of
cells, individual plate support, etc.
TUDOR BATTERIES are supplied exclusively
with
DELCO-LIGHT
plants by
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd., Sydney.
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd., Melbourne.
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd., Brisbane.
Messrs. Parsons & Robertson, Ltd., Adelaide.
And with
plants by
Messrs. Dangar, Gedye, Ltd., Sydney.
Messrs. Malloch Bros., Perth.
For each of the above plants a special exclusive
type of TUDOR BATTERY is supplied, specially
designed to meet the individual requirements
of the plants.
TUDOR BATTERIES ARE MADE IN ENGLAND
TUDOR Accumulators
Australasian Office:
The Tudor Accumulator Co. Ltd. (London), Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh St., Sydney


DO NOT
CONFUSE
Q.F.L.
BONDS
Visitors to the
Royal Easter Show
SYDNEY
should avail themselves of the opportunity of
inspecting the attractive display of
North Queensland Timbers
(Polished, Inlaid, Veneered)
at the
Hordern Pavilion
This interesting exhibition will reveal samples
of the wonderful timber wealth of
Queensland Forests Limited
.ga
With those of Afforestation Companies
who merely plant for you baby pine seedlings and promise you an
estimated return of £5OO for £25 in 20 years.
Queensland Forests Limited
is a COMPLETE FORESTRY enterprise.
It nurtures many thousands of trees, which are already full grown
and ready for market; it tends tremendous quantities of younger
trees from 10 to 25 years old; it fosters natural regeneration of a
forest which is known as “the treasure-house of fine woods.”
The Company does not grow Pinus Insignis. Its properties contain
many of the world’s most valuable luxury woods—high-grade
timbers for which not only Australia, but America and Europe,
are bidding.
Its Bondholders will not have to wait 20 years for an estimated
profit.
The Company’s Marketing Staff is already organised. This staff
comprises men who understand the job of marketing high-grade
timbers—who have already sold many millions of feet of Queens-
land’s fine woods. They are preparing for an early release of large
quantities of the Company’s Forest Wealth.
Q.F.L. Contracts to Earn for
Bondholders £lOO for every
£5 Invested
“Probably the best investment offering in Australia
To-day”
Every Parent, every Wage-earner may become a Bondholder.
Terms: 30/- deposit, 30/- every three months, total cost £25, will
purchase Five (5) Bonds and ensure a return of £5OO.
Write for Free Booklet to-day.
E. S. & R. C. MOULTON LIMITED,
Financial Managers for
Queensland Forests Limited
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Rowe’s Central Building, Edward' Street, Brisbane.
National Bank Chambers, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Epworth House, Pirie Street, Adelaide.
Economic Chambers, William and Hay Streets, Perth.
And at Rockhampton, Newcastle, Townsville, Singapore.
Valuable Queensland Properties
Tenders, closing with the undersigned at noon on 9th May, 1929, are
invited for the purchase of the following assets in the Estate of the
late John Henry Hart:—*
“ARCHERFIELD”
NINE MILES FROM BRISBANE G.P.0.; 14,500 ACRES.
The property known as “Areherlield" comprises 14,500 acres
of freehold land situated nine miles to seventeen and one-half
miles from the Brisbane G.P.O. It lies between the main
South Coast and Ipswich-Wallangarra Railway Lines and the
new STANDARD 4ft. B*in. GAUGE BRISBANE-KYOGLE-
SYDNEY RAILWAY RUNS THROUGH THE PROPERTY.
The main road to Beaudesert (bitumen) and the main road to
Ipswich (bitumen) are within two miles of the property, and
good roads run right into the property.
TIMBER.
At present there is estimated to be approximately 4,000,000
super feet of mill timber on the property and a large number
of electric light poles, piles, etc., also an enormous amount of
firewood.
CONTOUR AND SOIL.
The country is comprised of easy undulating ridges with nice
flats between over the whole area; there are no rough or
broken inaccessible spurs and there is no waste land. The
soil is varied in quality and appearance; many of the ridges
are composed of nice red soil, while others are of a grey sandy
loam with a reddish subsoil, well drained and free from clay,
easily worked and sweet. The flats are well grassed i\pd have
a clay subsoil. The Estate is watered by the Oxley and
Blunder Creeks, along which there is approximately 1000
acres very suitable for lucerne-growing. The Estate is most
suitable for dairy-farming, poultry-farming, citrus fruits, pine-
apples, etc.
POSITION.
Situated as it is within a few miles of the City of Brisbane,
its position gives to the Estate a wonderful potential value.
Being so near Brisbane, the population of which at Dec. 31,
1028, was 308,550, having increased by 55.000 during the past
4 years, “Archerfield" must become a suburb served with the
usual travelling facilities, trams and 'buses, in the next five
years; and the Ivyogle Railway will be running through the
property in the next twelve months.
TERMS.
One-quarter cash deposit, balance over ten years, with interest
at G 1 per cent. Tenders will be received for “Archerfield”:
(a) as a whole; (b) in portions under present survey; (c)
in any particular area selected by the tenderer.
Wharf Site—CHICAGO Estate
A DEEP-WATER FRONTAGE TO THE BRISBANE RIVER.
Brisbane River frontage, known as “Chicago Estate,” com-
prising 71 acres 1 rood freehold, with a frontage of 830
feet to the Brisbane River, and situated on the South Bank
of the Brisbane River, adjacent to the Meatworks and the
Commonwealth Acetate of Lime Works. Practically every
boat entering the Brisbane River passes this site, which is
opposite the proposed Dry Docks. The frontage has been
bored, and the engineer’s plan and report are available. There
will be no engineering difficulties in erecting a wharf at which
the largest vessels could berth.
TERMS for the above property:
One-quarter cash deposit, balance over 5 years, with
interest at 6J p.c. per annum.
DINMORE BRICKWORKS
The Dinmore Brickworks, situated at Dinmore on the Ipswich
line between Brisbane and Ipswich, comprises 20 acres of
the best fireclay and shale common and facing-brick clays in
Australia.
IMPROVEMENTS.
Improvements include a complete fire- and common-brick manu-
facturing plant, two machines, four kilns, pyrometers, railway
siding, stock approximately £5OOO, and a license to erect
and full plans and specification for erecting a Staffordshire
continuous kiln of the latest design, plans, etc., by Alfred
B. Serle, license from Deen, 1 letherington & Co.. Ltd., Stafford-
shire, together with the benefit of all pending contracts but
excluding book debts.
GENERAL.
The Dinmore Fire Bricks (Heart brand) are recognised
as absolutely the best fire bricks in Queensland and equal to
anything in Australia, being used by the City Electric Light
Co., Ltd., Babcock & Wilcox, John Thompson (Aust.), Ltd.,
the Brisbane City Council, the Queensland Government, the
principal meatworks, sugar mills, gas companies and foundries
of Queensland.
GOODWILL.
It wall Jbe recognised by intending purchasers on investigation
that the goodwill of these works is worth a considerable sum of
money, as the bricks are renowned throughout the whole of
Queensland.
TERMS.
One-ciuarter cash deposit on land and improvements, balance
over 5 years, with interest at 6£ p.c. Stock at valuation to be
paid for in cash.
The highest or any tender not necessarily accepted.
Full particulars to bona fide tenderers on application.
BY ORDER OF THE EXECUTORS,
F. HART,
COMMERCE HOUSE, ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE.
Is baby thriving ?
Food
L 3 79
Reg. Trade Mark.
Incases of difficult feed-
ing Benger’s gives valuable
help. A change to Benger’s
Food at three months has
proved the turning point to
many weakly infants.
1 enger's Food always is prepared
for use with fresh cows’ milk.
Send for Benger’s Booklet, post free.
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd.,
350, George Street, SYDNEY.
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Dirkctors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. *
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.H.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.


Clit 3
©he;
Santwill’
Work
Shirt
7/9
A Sandy Coloured
Twill Quality Work
Shirt. Two Breast
Pockets, with Flaps.
Washes and wears well.
Three for
22/6
POST FREE
eMail tJ 'Desk. stating Sizes
X
PIKE
BROTHERS - LIMITED
In Queen Street
BRISBANE (Q’ld.)
■
; -
1§N
■
“STONEWALL
SHOES for MEN
ON SCIENTIFIC LASTS.
ROOM FOR EVERY TOE.
Boots or Shoes in Black, Tan and Nigger
Calf. Welt Soles.
296
BETTER GRADES, 36/-
Recommended by Leading Surgeons.
Postage, 1/-; Interstate, 1/8.
Send Desk B for Catalogue.
JACKSONS U?
"Stonewall Stores.
Ca r Pitt 6 GoulburrL Sts. Sydaey.
Build With
WUNDERLICH
Materials
Guard against faulty work
obtain the highest value by in-
sisting on Wunderlich Building
Materials, which include:—
Art Metal Ceilings, Terra Cotta
Roofing Tiles, Asbestos Cement
(Durabestos) Building Sheets.
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Caveman”: Working in the hills behind
Nelson (MX.), I camped near a farm where
I was burning gorse. One day I asked the
old farmer if he thought the weather, which
was fine and apparently dry, was suitable
for a fire. The old chap called to his wife
MISUNDERSTOOD AGAIN.
SCHOOLMARM : “Now who can remember what I told you about Alfred the Great:
I don’t want to hear anything about how he burnt the cakes.”
JOHNNY TRESIZE: “Please, Miss, I know. Once he called at a swineherd’s cottage
and he went in with the swineherd’s wife, and the less said about what happened
the better.”
in the kitchen: “Mother, what does the axe
say?” The reply was, “Tight—damp.” The
farmer then advised me not to try to get
gorse to burn. He explained that many years
previously he had repaired his domestic axe
with a binding of wire close to the head.
In time he discovered that on certain days
the binding was loose, owing to shrinkage of
the wood when the air was dry. On other
days the wire was tight; the wood had
swollen with the damp air. When the
weapon became more useful as a barometer
than an axe it was given a permanent place
on the kitchen wall.
* * * *
“O W. Waireki”: Hori’s neighbors com-
plained about his dogs barking at night, so
one evening when a canine concert was
at its height Hori went out and very soundly
walloped every tyke. Ten minutes later a
member of the S.P.C.A. living near by called
and asked the native if he had been ill-treat-
ing his dogs. “I’m sure,” he said, “I heard
the sound of blows.” “No fear,” declared
Hori fervently. “T’at t.e time I onry peen
out patting t’em.”
* * * *
“Jacobum”: One night I was awakened
by a fierce altercation on my front door-
step at Balmain (Sydney). Apparently there
were three men involved and their language
was shocking. I requisitioned the assistance
of a husky son and decided to shift them,
but was surprised to find that all the_ noise
came from a solitary drunk. Standing in the
shadow I listened for quite a while. In a
robust baritone he accused himself of being
all sorts of a sanguinary cow. Then, in
dulcet tenor accents, lie replied in kind,
and told an imaginary third party to mind
his own crimson business. Representing the
third party he gruffly apologised for inter-
fering, explaining that he was doing it for
peace sake. And so it went on till I made
my presence known and ended the trinitarian
quarrel.
* # * *
“Up Top”: Watched a newclmm “black-
fellowing” a tree. Instead of cutting a scarf
in the orthodox way he nicked the huge
trunk completely round, deepening the nicks
for half a day.' It was a beautiful stick,
the barrel going straight up for 60ft. without
a branch. Of course it was as hollow as a
drum or it. would not have been left there
for chummy. That day was breathless, and
the amateur found it hot, gazing up in
puzzlement again and again as the Sphinx-
like tree refused to fall. He had cut com-
pletely through its shell and the vertical
weight of the tree in that still air balanced
it there. Spitting on his hands, chummy
tackled the “blackfellowing” all over again,
like sharpening a gigantic lead pencil. When
lie was just about exhausted, the great tree
gently sighed and telescoped slowly down
into its own butt. And there it still stands,
like a candle in a candlestick.
*. * * *
“Caveman”: Is there any creature that
cannot be tamed? A girl, Miss McCallum,
living on the bank of the Anatoki River, near
Nelson (M.L.), has for several years per-
suaded a family of eels living in the river
near her home to come to her. She sum-
mons them by smacking the water and cry-
ing “Eelie! Eelie!” The eels then hurry
towards her. The patriarch of the tribe, a
lengthy 15-pounder, crawls right out of the
water and allows himself to be stroked and
petted. If the others try to share the pet-
ting he snaps at them. The girl says she
feeds the eels sometimes, but they don't seem
to expect feeding; only attention.
x * * *
“Rotom” : Another chapter in the history
of marsupial destruction in N. S. Wales has
been commenced. An open season for the
destruction of kangaroos and wallabies has
been declared in the police dis-
tricts of Wentworth, Bourke,
Wilcannia, Cobar, Moree, Dam-
pier and Brewarrina, and it is
a safe wager that the slaughter
won’t be confined to those boun-
daries, but will go on ruthlessly
in all localities where the long-
tails still exist. The modern
hunter, with his speedy motor-
car, can cover a long distance
with his game before he spreads
the skins to dry, and the claim
that the pelts so transported
were locally secured isn’t easy
to disprove.
BETTER THE DEVIL HE KNEW.
“I suppose you’re longing for the day that
you’ll leave this awful place?”
“Not me! I’m a lifer.”
“Hayband”: I am unable to convince
myself that lions and tigers and most
of the rest of a zoo’s inhabitants enjoy life.
During 30 years or so I have consistently
failed to notice any lion, tiger or _ leopard
let even tw T o minutes pass without airing its
dentistry in a Jenolan Caves of a yawn.
Even those born and reared in captivity give
these exhibitions of listlessness.
:J: X X X
“Gouger”: Anthropologists have long
argued as to the origin of the Torres Strait
islanders. I wonder that none of them have
stumbled on a missing link and labelled the
islanders descendants of the ancient Egyp-
tians. The majority of the T.I. men
are taller and finer-looking than the
Papuans. Many have the pronounced Egyp-
tian nose and eyes. Their huge
war canoes of old time, with
their tall stern and arrogant
beaked bow with its staring
eyes, are reminiscent of the
craft of the Pharaohs. The
paddles which decorate the
fighting platform, and which
are tipped in a basket-work
frame with gorgeous ornaments
of birds’ plumage, the gigantic
“beards” at bow and stern, the
gay streamers floating from
masts and rigging, had their
counterpart on the Nile before
Cleopatra’s day. The Torres
islanders believe implicitly that
their priests, the Zogo-le, can
and do commune with the spirits
of the dead, and that they can
call up the living dead by in-
cantations similar to those used
by the ancient Egyptian priests.
Also, as astronomers the island-
ers have enough star-knowledge
to make practical use of it in
navigation. But the clinching
argument is that they mummify
their chiefs and other important people, and
that their technique in that respect closely
resembles that of the Egyptians.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: When David Mitchell
took over Dueran station (Vic.) the timber
had been ringbarked for many years, but,
as little had been done in the way of clean-
ing up, the property was fairly cluttered
with logs and fallen deadwood. Thinking to
make a cheap job of the burning-off, Mitchell
imported a horde of boys from down-country
and set them to work. When old Paddy
H'erlihy heard the news he shook his head
and prophesied: “Widout a shadda av a
doubt, ould Davy is as able a d’aler as a
man wud foind from this to Ballinasloe,
but divil a much profit will he make outa
this job. Sure, the whole wurruld knows
that whin a man have wan b y wurrukin
for him he have but ha’f a b'y, and whin
he have two or more b’ys the divil a b’y
he have at all. So for wanst, anyhow, Davy
will be payin’ for somethin’ he’ll niver get.”
The place was infested with bandicoots,
kangaroo-rats, native cats and goannas,
and, despite the prayers and profanity of
the pannikin boss, whenever one of the var-
mint broke cover every boy and dog on the
job went after it until it got clear away or
was “logged” and chopped out. As this
occurred about every half hour or less,
the boss bowed to the inevitable, mustered
his refractory stick-pickers and shipped
them back to their native wilds.
* * * i=
“Gentleman James”: All salt-water
natives in the Pacific are greedily fond of
the octopus, or star-fish, as it is named
in Torres Strait. Pulling over a reef with
but two or three feet of water on it, one
of my boat’s crew suddenly left his oar to
look after itself, and flung himself overboard.
Il'e quickly reappeared struggling with a
giant octopus. Seizing the body of the squirm-
ing thing, he dug his fingers into the open-
ing of bag and turned it inside out. It
was easy for him now to detach the ten-
tacles from himself, for the fish could no
longer suck and must have felt like an
animated vacuum. Then, contemptuously
beating the flabby thing a few times on
the gunwale, the boy flung it like a wet
sack on to the roof of the cabin, where it
lay feebly pulsating. The creature had arms
nearly sft. long.
* * *
“Top Off”: A curious little creature is
the toby-bug that inhabits the tulip-beds on
the summit of Mt. Kosciusko (N.S.W.).
Burrowing deeply into the snow as soon as
it emerges from the egg, the larva takes pos-
session of a tulip-bulb, -which it artistically
hollows out so as to make a series of apart-
ments. When all the bulbs are thus occu-
pied, newcomers are permitted to inhabit the
prepared mansions, but they must pay a tri-
bute of tulip-leaf, -petal or -stalk, on which
these strange insects feed. Every Saturday
you can see the tenants crawling to the sur-
face to accumulate their rent, returning with
their forelegs laden with green stuff. The
fat landlord-bugs also come to the surface,
but watch the Others toiling as they 101 l in
the doorways of their residential, chewing
tulip titbits. Towards the end of the season,
when the tulips are eaten down to the bulbs
and the tenants can no longer render tribute,
the landlord bugs unite and devour the de-
faulters. I have always thought that this
was at least one of the reasons why there are
so few tulips on Australia’s loftiest peak.
(Continued on page 25.)
THIS TIME O’ THE TEAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Just this time o’ the year
When earlier night descends,
And the crickets croon in the grasses
In the sad green evening-ends;
When the mist hangs loiv in the hollow
And the burnt bare ridge regains
Her velvety cloak of verdure
In the early autumn rains.
The old dog sleeps in the sunlight,
The old trees lean by the wall
Where only the leaves are stirring,
Only the shadows fall.
Here once there rang the laughter,
Here echoed the shouts at play
Of the lads that long since went over
The hills and far away.
Smoke of the fires of autumn
Hangs in the evening cool,
And I hear the neighbor’s children
Scampering home from school,
While half of my heart’s in the twilight
Of half-forgotten things,
Ere ever the years brought changes,
Ere ever the birds spread wings.
It’s not that I am grieving
Or that old sorrows sear;
It’s only that I remember,
Just this time o’ the year!
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


/
Easter Calls!
/
&}’h
u i
t 'isSmt a* u %id
« J!
1J;
4, P
1
s?
"// * /
■*
mid > ■
' WMVr-
H fAI
/ *
*-Y/ »' 1
“ l c
)|/
(A
u »,
-
V /
i rs ■
'/
WW/
<'T
fr t llllh fl, j.7b
L: ]H«Skp J
\X t ! r
Mfmmb .
/p I iff Iff \
%\w II? / 'r
M /.lilff: S
\
I
nr
\f % \ r
4m) m
#■' 1 1
. m,
<% %
l Mi
r
?. mt
ij/Q i, xl'//f({, y r ////
#lr.w*
r
£ DUNLOP TYRES
m«; c
*
,• r
--£^-MJ
% V
'Hf'’
iCiM
?**
M
s So c S
6
\ V
mm//
m?
/>'
c '= s m/
DUNLOP
ANSWERS-
there are stocks of the latest Dunlop
Tyres at 5000 Garages. These sturdy,
reliable covers, and tubes not only with-
stand hard driving, but assure that en-
joyable and economical motoring which
is so desirable.
DUNLOP SERVICE IS DECIDEDLY BETTER /
J,
*
f
\
!//./
A
IS
tl
;v
mx
GOLF
ALSO
CALLS'
To
lay
Strokes
That
Save Strokes
use
DUNLOP


PEAPES
Clothe men AND their sons.
QUALITY
VALUE
SERVICE
Write for new
Winter Catalogue.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
They Satisfy
because they are made from 100
per cent, pure Virginia tobacco,
thoroughly matured. “Greys”
have a reputation they cannot
afford to lose; they are therefore
consistent in their perfect quality.
“Greys” protect your palate and
leave no after taste. Let your
next smoke be a GREYS.
m
THE GREYS
SIZEnTWO
SILKCUT VIRGINIA
ORAP
EYS
E® for <J)dl. CIGARETTES ZOi for 1/®
Of course you
know “Greys
Heavyweights”
are now 1/- for
10 ; 2/- for 20.
The
Clip
8M«»
-
may be small or large in size, attractive or otherwise
,n quality and condition. That’s not the point. Every
o-rade of wool and every bale or even bag of it has
its correct market value. And if this action is taken
that full value will be secured.
Send the Wool to
WiNCHCOMBE, CARSON
Selling Brokers, LTD.
SYDNEY or BRISBANE,
Who secure growers highest possible figures for every
bale or bag they cell.
“Mulgo”: At Currawilla squattage, on
Farrar’s Creek (W.Q.), the flood trouble
was tackled in a practical and permanent
way. Years ago the owner had the whole
of the homestead site enclosed in a wide-
circling wall, built of earth and tallow, Bft.
high and Bft. thick. The tallow in the
composition prevented erosion and leakage
during heavy rain and floods. The country
is mostly flat, and when the creek overflows,
the waters spread for miles. At such times
the Currawilla buildings lie low and dry
in the midst of a great brown sea. Some-
times the station folk are marooned within
their enclosure for days.
* * * *
“Mullarula”: In the days when moleskin
pants were beloved by bushmen were
many arguments concerning the best shade.
White moles were considered by some to
be too flash, hut others held that no other
shade should be worn with a cabbage-tree
hat. Blue-grey was popular with bul-
lockies, and brown with drivers of horse-
teams —the reason for these preferences was
obscure. During an argument on a Col-
larenebri , (N.S.W.) pub verandah as to
the most tasteful or serviceable shade, an
old Barwon identity put it this way: “It’s
all a matter of taste. What becomes one
cove doesn’t become another. Me, I buys
me moles white and lets ’em color to me
own satisfaction.”
* * * *
“Lupgel”: One time when I was camping
on the Pakapoo River (N.T.), ’way back
in the ’twenties, I heard a sound that froze
the marrow in my bones. It was the slow
“crunch, crunch” of the giant hooly-kooly
crab, sawing steadily away at one of the
close-nestling trees that supported the plat-
form on which I had made my aerial roost.
LITTLE BILLY’S GRACE.
“For what we are about to receive may
the Lord, make us truly thankful for
Heaven’s sake look at the ants on the
pudding!”
Every northern bushman knows and fears
these terrible pachyderms, which, having
acquired the taste for the flesh of the white
man, pursue him with devilish cunning. I
had been immune up till then, having
anointed my trees with goanna tooth-paste,
as advised by the old Marmoset of Fuma-
diddle, whose life I saved when he was chased
by a polar bear, he having left his spectacles
at home. His mother-in-law, a most estim-
able woman, was related on her father's
aunt’s side to Jim Smith, of Crazy Islafid,
but always refused to take water with her
zam-buk, which was brewed by the toggle-
joints (priests) of her aunt’s cousin’s tribe.
This being the condition of affairs there
was only one thing left for me to do.
I unloosed the cord of my parachute and
jumped. In a moment I was in death-grips
with a gogetta, but drawing my trusty stilo
I signed on the dotted line. I woke up in
hospital, having been rescued by a friendly
crocodile, or, as some say, a platypus.
* * * *
“Phil P.” : A feature of the whaling voy-
age of the N. T. Nielsen-Alonso, which
returned to Hobart with a record catch of
63,500 barrels of oil, taken in five months
from the Ross Sea, was the capture
of a solitary sperm whale in the far
sout li. T h <>
cachalot, though
it prefers war-
mer zones, has
a vast range; it
has been found
stranded on
British coasts
as far north as
the Orkneys.
“Senex”: For penetrating powers I’ll
nominate the spear-grass seed- It develops
a circular wriggling motion when brought
into contact with anything damp. Wet the
earth and put a seed there, and in a few
minutes the thing, pointed end down, has
dug itself in, and consolidated the position.
Sheepmen have sworn to me on hair-raising
oaths that they can’t keep sheep where the
spear grass is as the seed burrows right
through the animal’s skin. I know from
personal experience that it gets through a
bloke’s pants in short order, but I haven’t
enough scientific enthusiasm to find out if
it can go further.
* * * *
“The Rumpus”: I was lying still, trying
to sneak back good health from old Mother
Bush, when my attention was drawn upward
by a peculiar wing flutter in a tall gum.
High up I discovered an old kookaburra, very
dejected and feeble of toe-grip. Flying round
him, making short vicious jabs at the poor
old fellow, was his dame. Lower and lower
he was forced to descend, branch by branch,
until he reached the bottom limb, where he
made a gallant attempt to pull himself
together, ignoring the cruel attentions of
his wife. But life faded at last and he
toppled over to fall a few yards from my
feet. If the lady had any conscience at all,
the sight of that last quivering toe-point in
her direction would have lived for evdr in
her memory. As it was she flew joyously to
a neighboring tree where waited another male
jack—new husband, no doubt.
* * * *
“C.”: I wonder did King Theebaw, of
Burma (B. 6/3/’29), copy his method
of laying human foundations from Cakobau,
last king of Fiji? That hoary old scoundrel
used to bury his captured enemies alive
in huge holes in which would be planted,
when he decided to shift house, the corner
supports of a new palace. Then in front of
the building would be placed a row of stones
to show how many prisoners he. had eaten
during his martial career. In 1849, Cako-
hau’s tally was 872, and for this insignificant
total he apologised one day to an inquisitive
missionary, saying he had been rather in-
dolent lately and had neglected to post his
ledger.
* * * *
“Caveman”: The scientists of the Danish
steamer Dana, now in Australasian waters,
have discovered some previously unknown
facts about the conformation of the ocean-
bed around the MX. coasts. It has been
found that Cook Strait, which separates the
North and South Islands, is part of a long,
deep chasm in the sea-floor, several hundred
fathoms deeper than the rest of the ocean
in the vicinity, and extending on either side
beyond the two islands for about 400 miles.
The information is worth something to the
Telegraph Department, which is always wor-
ried over the chafing of cables that cross the
Strait. The chafing and straining can be
stopped if the cables can he persuaded to
tuck themselves down into the chasm instead
of spanning it like a bridge.
* * * *
“Sea Nomad” : Four Japs are now diving
in Torres Strait waters clad in the usual
helmet and weights. They have discarded
the remainder of the cumbersome suit for
an ordinary pair of engineer’s overalls. This
leaves them very free to work. They have
fished shell from 30 fathoms and have suf-
fered no ill effects. By all the old theories,
they should have been dead men, or at least
crippled by diver’s paralysis. Possibly it is
the brain only that is affected by water
pressure.
* * * *
“Sea Nomad”: I was anchored for a week,
during a cyclonic blow, off Darnley Island,
and came to the conclusion tljat the lugger
was haunted. Every evening a faint but un-
mistakable knocking would commence and
echo right through the vessel. All efforts
to trace the noise
failed. To make
the mystery more
mysterious, th e
ghostly tapping
seemed to come
from below the
water-line. A 11
w a s explained
when, on the last
night, a grinning
islander slid over-
side and came up
with a vigorously-
protesting crab.
Its claws had
done the knock-
ing, burgling the
barnacles on the
vessel’s copper-
plated bottom.
I’ve listened to
an almost similar
noise in the
deathly quiet of
the Valala River.
The local natives
say that in the
latter case it is
the stubby, horn-like nose of a big river
fish that does the knocking. He sheers off,
then charges the picked barnacle and crushes
its shell with his battering-ram beak. Such
little tricks played on a lonely human while
in a savage country don’t improve one’s
nerves.
* * * *
“Pudden: Time and again I’ve seen
it stated in print that emus can run at a
pace of 35 m.p.h. I’ve timed more than a
few when motoring. Twenty-five, or there-
abouts, was the best I ever got out of an
emu, and I have had them tucking their
ears back and throwing dust behind them
when I sounded the horn of the car. And
I have yet to find the bird that can run
away from me if I’m on any sort of a horse
at all. With a stock saddle and all fittings
I weigh in at about 14st. Can any stock-
horse, with no preparation and on a heavy
track, carrying 14st., run a mile in 2min. ?
That equals 30 m.p.h., which is five below
the emu’s supposed pace.
* * * *
“Pickax”: What’s the origin of the fairy-
tale about people walking in circles when
lost in the bush? My old dad, who had 20
years in the S.A. police and who tracked
many a lost man, and the late Inspector Tom
Clode, of the S.A. mounted police, were both
emphatic in their contention that when a
man is lost and in delirium he will invari-
ably be found heading north. They said that
when a lost man was circling in the scrub
he was only flustered, but when he lost
control of his senses and began to get rid
of his clothes, as they nearly always do, he
would instinctively make towards where
there was the most light in the sky.
* * * *
“Rigalt”: Spiders appear to be invulner-
able. A medico friend of mine gave a couple
a bath in undiluted lysol, which they seemed
to enjoy. He followed this with ammonia,
which gave them no discomfort. A little
later nitric acid was poured on them with-
out fatal results, though it was sufficiently
strong to burn a hole in a man’s hand. Next
the ammonia was boiled and they were
douched with pure ammonia gas. The medico
was nearly asphyxiated, hut the spiders
merely fell dopily to the floor. Apparently
the only thing left was to squash them, but,
feeling their release had been earned, my
friend placed them in the garden and they
walked merrily away!
* * ❖ *
“Runa” : The domestic cow nearly always
actively resents the advent of any strange
animal. Some years ago when an Aucklander
established a zoo near Onehunga, the resi-
dents nearby were kept in a simmer of
excitement by the numerous escapes, and
were liable to come home at any hour and
find an opossum in the kitchen or a cassowary
on the lawn. When one afternoon a lion
aged five months was reported missing from
home there was consternation in the neigh-
borhood, and all the able-bodied men joined
in a hunt for the creature. They were
spared the trouble of hunting him, as in a
small paddock a sedate and elderly cow had
bailed the youngster up in a corner, and
was keeping close guard on him, while he
crouched in obvious terror before her. His
relief on seeing the keeper was profound.
* * s!< *
“A. 0.”: The “galloping bedstead” is not
a myth. It figured as a sideshow at a recent
agricultural show on the South Coast
(N.S.W.). Made by an enterprising youth
from odds and ends and old spare parts
found in the junk-heap of the local garage,
it had for its chassis a portion of an iron
bedstead, and boasted a composite motor-bike
engine, kerosene tin sides and a variety of
gadgets, including a kick starter. The paint
was put on through an insecticide spray,
and its owner proudly referred to its “two-
tone finish.” Unfortunately, registration
was refused, and the 'bus languishes in idle-
ness, though it is capable of quite a good
road performance. .
* * * *
“Hairpin”: Mrs. Binghi finds her yam-
stick very handy when her lord and master
considers it his duty to bash, or try
to bash, her with a nulla nulla. Grasp-
ing it by both ends she is greased lightning
at warding off the blows, and I have yet to
see the nigger who can hit her. During
the would-be chastisement her frightful
squeals would lead one .to believe every
clout was linking up with her carcase.
When young I prided myself on my skill
with the foils, and made a wager that I
could pink the smartest yamstick-wielding
gin when and where I liked. Carefully
chalking the button of the foil I tried all I
knew to make good my boast. I couldn’t even
touch a gin’s unguarded hands.
* * * * '
“Lampey”: Some remarkably big waves
are to be seen periodically off Ascension
Island. There is no warning of their
approach and the state of the weather or of
the sea has nothing to do with them. These
rollers are anything from a quarter to half a
mile in length and they reach a height of
anything from 50 to 75 feet. Nothing can
approach whilst the rollers are on and a
signal is flown warning mail steamers and
other shipping to give the island a wide
berth. There are single and double rollers,
the former being not quite so formidable.
They approach in an oblique direction and
pass clean over one corner of the island with
no effect upon their progress, and are only
lost to sight far away on the horizon.
* % *
“Black Tracker”: The red-hacked spider,
whose poisonous bite has been so conspicuous
of late, is known and feared in many coun-
tries. In the United States it is called
the black widow; in New Zealand, the
katipo; in Spain and Italy, malmignata;
in Madagascar, manavidi; and in the West
Indies, arana naranga.
THE LESSER EVIL.
The Cop: “Why d’you stick to a little
rat of a man like this who’s always
giving you a black eye?”
The Lady : “An’ would you have me take
on a big one who’d give me two?”
“A.8.C.”: I don’t know anything to equal
the agony caused by brushing one’s skin
against the caterpillar-like insect called
“eight-poster.” It is colored green and
pink or green and yellow. If one brushes
against the hairy posts which rise from
the creature’s back the most intense pain
is experienced, lasting for about an hour.
This champion pain-giver is to be found
on gum-trees.
OUT OF THE BUSINESS.
JAGGER: “I don’t think I like Blibber s. I
told ’im I was a retired gentleman and
‘Yes,' he says, ‘I suppose you didn’t
feel comfortable at it.' ”
THE MAILMAN’S TRACK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“So long,” he said. “I must jog along ;
And went on his lonely ride
With here a whistle and there a song,
And the packhorse at liis side.
By river and creek and by swamp and scrub
He followed the winding track,
Where only the myall with spear and club
Enlivened the way out hack.
The twisty river a score of times
He crossed in a day’s long ride,
And over the range to the bellbirds’ chimes,
And down by the Logan side;
By the Haunted Mountain that towers above
The scrub and the Bridal Tree,
Where came romance to the scented grove,
When the region was wild and free;
Through summer and winter the mailman
rode
His course to the north and south,
And ever he won with his quart and load,
Whether in flood or drouth.
Though ’tween the rivers the years brought
change,
And he passed with his horse and pack,
His old way over the mountain range
All know as the Mailman’s Track.
N.S.W.
E. S. SORENSON.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young woman (23) desires to correspond
with Bulletin readers, opposite sex, about
same age, residing in Papua.—9262.
By ex-marine-steward (20), passenger
boats, position as waiter or butler, N.S.W.
Kefs.—924l.
Two motor-cyclists, S.A. (mechanics), will
undertake any trip, own machines, or pur-
chase from firm desirous of advertisement,
firm to cover expenses.—926B.
Sleeping partner with.£2o,ooo to join with
advertiser, liis three adult sons and £lO,OOO
to buy remarkably cheap, well-improved, big,
half-stocked sheep station of first-class
quality in N.Q. —9248.
By trained nurse, middle-aged, Vic.,
situation in Q’land in May. Good refs. —
9275.
By lady, position in non-official post office,
Vic., six years’ experience. Used to money
order work. —9276.
To hear from persons interested in beche-
de-mer.—92Bo.
English reader with friends in Falkland
Islands and West Indies' desires to exchange
stamps with readers in Pacific Islands and
Australia. Good magazines sent to anyone
in Pacific Islands. (To William Potter,
Offord-Cluny, Huntingdon, England.)
By Scotch lady, fashion buyer with exten-
sive experience and thorough showroom
knowledge, position of trust where special
ability might prove mutually profitable. Ex.
refs. —9331.
By well-educated man (27), business and
agricultural experience, position in or near
Adelaide. Has a little capital to invest.—
9289.
By married man (35), position as boun-
dary-rider in N.S.W., or take charge of small
property. Able to draft and count; 20
years’ experience with sheep. Good refs. —
9319.
By girl (19), S.A., refined, capable, college
education, bright disposition, position as
travelling companion to a 1ady.—9324.
By motor-cyclist, good sportsman as side-
car passenger. May or June, two or four
weeks’ tour, share expenses.—9327.
By young man, Queensland, work any-
where in Australia or in Islands. First class
engine-driver’s certificate, butter factory, saw-
milling and book-keeping experience. Good
refs. —9291.
Whereabouts of David Blair, gardener,
late of Abingdon, Gundagai, and Tin-
pagee, Bourke (N.S.W.). (To J. Robin-
son, Sedbury Stud, Gundagai, N.S.W.)
To exchange, banjo and mandolin music
for other such music.—92s4.
Words of comic song “The Oyster Stew.”
(To Harold Jenkins, Box 7, Murrayville,
Vic.)
Information Sought.
What is the cause of mildew appearing on
the bricks of a chimney-place, and how can
it be remedied? —9001.
There is evidently salt in the mortar or
the bricks. Apply a thin coating of 3 parts
cement and 1 part fine sand (not sea sand)
mixed with fresh water to the consistency of
paint. Stir thoroughly, and paint over the
bricks with a flat whitewash brush, keeping
the wall constantly damp with fresh water
just in advance of the painting. The mix-
ture is grey, but may be tinted with Venetian
red.
(1) What is the best way . to obtain a.
certificate as a driver of stationary steam-
engines or gas- and oil-engines in S.A.?
(2) What arc the prospects of employment
after securing a certificate? —-9147.
(1) A certificate is issued as a result of
an examination, and candidates must pos-
sess the necessary qualifications. Particu-
lars of these are contained in a book of regu-
lations obtained from the Chief Inspector
of Factories, Adelaide, price Is. Id. posted.
(2) Depends on the state of the labor-
market. At present there does not appear
to be any dearth of engine-drivers.
How can l prevent the flaps of my saddle
becoming hard and curling up? —9l7o.
Soft soap is the best preservative and
softener for saddles and harness. Rub well
into the leather with a flannel, and polish
with a piece of old silk. When the saddle
is not in use, hang it so that the flaps are
not crushed or doubled.
(1) Can permanganate of potash be used
in case of a bite by a death adder, as in the
case of bites by other poisonous snakes?
(2) Where are printed directions for first-
aid treatment in cases of snake-bite obtain-
able?—9326.
(1) Yes. (2) From the Department of
Public Health, Macquarie-street, Sydney.
See also article in the Australian Museum
Magazine (vol. 2, part 4), by J. R. King-
horn.
Is it possible to convert a 15 -h.p. Jersey
City standard marine engine into a crude-
oil engine? —9l33.
No. For one reason the engine is made
to stand a pressure of 851 b. to the sq. inch,
whereas in a crude-oil engine the pressure is
4401 b. to the sq. inch.
My Irish terrier is swollen from head to
foot, and just lies about, eating little but
drinking a lot. What ails him, and what can
be done? —9183.
The symptoms point to dropsy of the
abdomen, but it is possible the dog is
affected with a parasite (worm) in the
heart. For the dropsy, iodide of potassium
in 5-grain tabloids should be given t.wice
daily, but watch for symptoms of iodism —
depression, running from eyes, etc. If
these appear, the iodide must be discon-
tinued for a few days.
Where is the electric-generating plant
housed in such works as the Hume Weir at
Albury (N.S.W.), and how is the water
conveyed to the turbines? —8923.
On the downstream face of the concrete
portion of the dam, and close to the wing
wall on the N. S. Wales bank, three 13ft.
conduits come through the wall, and the
turbine spiral casings will be connected
directly to the conduits. The power station
will be built immediately below the wall,
the concrete foundations being carried up
to support the turbines, which are of the
vertical type, the generators being arranged
above the turbines.
(1) How is grain made into malt? (2)
What is ground malt? —8766.
(1) The cereal is first soaked in water
for 20 to 60 hours according to type treated,
after which it undergoes a process of con-
trolled germination. This is accomplished
by turning frequently in machine-driven
cylinders or by hand-power over cement
floors on which it is spread to a depth of
three to six inches, until the required starch
conversion is attained. It is then loaded
up on the kiln and subjected to heats varying
from 120 deg. to 210 deg. Fall, according
to quality of finished product required. (2)
Ground malt is malted grain passed through
a mill in the same way as wheat is treated
for the manufacture of flour.
(1) Where could a correspondence course
in agriculture be taken in Sydney? (2)
What are the fees for such a course? (3)
Textbooks required, and cost? —9144.
(1) Sydney Technical College, Harris
Street, Ultimo. (2) Fees, £1 per annum
or Bs. per term. Students under 21
receiving less than 30s. weekly, half these
amounts. (3) Stage I: “Farmer’s Hand-
book,” fourth edition (10s. 6d.) ; “The Soil,”
by A. D. Hall (10s. 6d.) ; “Pruning,” by
W. J. Allen (35.). Stage II: “Descriptive
Chemistry,” Part 1, by L. C. Newell (4s.
9d.) ; “Elementary Agricultural Chemistry,”
by H. Ingle (6s. 6d.). Optional books:
“Potts on Pigs,” by 11. W. Potts (12s. 6d.) ;
“Poultry Farming,” by J. Hadlington (45.) ;
“Money in Bees,” by Tarlton Payment (Bs.
6d.) ; “Principles of Fruit Growing,” by L.
H. Bailey (15s. 6d.) ; and “Australian Sheep
and Wool,” by A. Hawkesworth (255.).
In working out estimates for painting con-
tracts what is a fair allowance for (1)
cost of material per coat square yard; (2)
cost of labor, etc.? —9271.
(1) A good ready-mixed paint runs out at
about sd. or 6d. per square yard each coat
on plain surfaces. (2) Varies so much ac-
cording to nature of surface that it is impos-
sible to state a fixed amount.
Where could a girl learn draughtsmanship
in Sydney and what are the fees, length of
course, etc.? —9272.
She could take a full-time day course of
study in geometrical and perspective draw-
ing, tracing and lettering at the East Sydney
Technical College (Art Dept.), Darlinghurst,
which on application will post syllabus giving
information as to scope of instruction, class,
timetables, fees, etc. Or she may attend the
evening courses of study in architectural and
mechanical draughtsmanship at the Central
Technical College, Ultimo, provided she is
engaged in such work during the day-time.
Syllabuses on application.
I am 76 and unable to continue my work
an account of a severe operation. Should
I apply for the old-age pension or an inva-
lid’s pension? What is the total annual in-
come allowed to such pensioners, and is one
paid in addition to the other in such cases
as mine? —9176.
You should apply for the old-age pension.
The invalid pension 'cannot be paid in
addition to the old-age pension. The In-
valid and Old-age Pensions Act provides
that no pension shall be at such a rate as
will make pensioner’s income, together with
pension, exceed £B4 10s. per annum.
How are 11 dry cells made for use with
a wireless receiver? I already possess the
zinc containers and carbon rods? —9250.
The inside of the zinc container is lined
with thick blotting-paper to within a short
distance of the top. In the centre is placed
the carbon rod element resting on the insu-
lating bottom, and the space all round is
rammed tightly with a mixture of equal quan-
tities of crushed carbon and manganese
dioxide (needle manganese). A small quan-
tity of finely-powdered black-lead may also
be added, the exact amount being unimpor-
tant. The level of this mixture should be
just below the top of the blotting-paper. To
4-pint of boiled water add 4-pint of
“killed” spirits of salts, and into this mix-
ture dissolve lioz. of sal-ammoniac, finally
adding a teaspoonful of glycerine. This mix-
ture is poured in slowly until no more is
absorbed by the cell. A layer of paraffined
blotting-paper is placed on top of the car-
bon mixture and the remaining space filled
with melted pitch to which a little paraffin
wax has been added.
How is beche-de-mcr treated when recov-
ered from the water? —9280.
On the Great Barrier Reef the creatures
are collected into sacks, taken to the curing
stations, and boiled in cauldrons for 20
minutes. They are then taken out, slit open
and gutted, and exposed to the sun until
the greater part of the moisture has evapo-
rated, after which they are smoked in a
smoke-house for about 24 hours.
How did the Rugby League come into being
in N.5.W.?— 9288.
Rugby League football originated in 1007
in Sydney as the outcome of a dispute within
the Rugby Union as to the adequacy of the
allowance for out-of-pocket expenses. The
Union at that time allowed players on tour
os. per day. Several leading players de-
manded more, and suggested that payments
should be made even for matches in the home
town, on the lines of the English Northern
Union arrangement. This raised the whole
question of professionalism, and a Rugby
League was formed which agreed to pay its
players 10s. per day and 7s. _6d. for out-of-
pocket expenses. The Union authorities
thereupon declared all League players pro-
fessionals and expelled them.
In a cricket match, as the howler ran up
to deliver the hall the striking batsman
moved up the pitch to meet the hall. Instead
of howling, the howler threw, and hit the
wicket, with the batsman out of his crease.
Was the batsman run out or should a no-
ball hare been credited to his sidcf —9286.
A debatable point, but rule 35, which
says that the ball is dead when settled in
the bowler’s hand, seems to apply. Pre-
sumably the ball remains dead in the case
of the batsman waiting to receive the ball
until it is actually bowled, for there is
special mention of the position of the bats-
man at the bowler’s end if he is out of
his ground. It is one of those cases to be
left to the discretion of the umpire, with
the usual proviso as to the batsman getting
the benefit of the doubt.
Has a free-lance journalist any claim at
law for payment for published contributions
to a newspaper? —92l4.
Yes, provided the free-lance makes his
position clear. He should submit his script
endorsed “on usual terms of payment,” or
with other words indicating that payment
is expected. If accepted it becomes a bind-
ing contract.
How can I repair a galvaniscd-iron tank
with cement, and what will it cost? —92oo.
If the tank is an old one, punch numerous
holes in it to create a bond, and wrap the
outside of the tank round with chicken
wire. Make mixture of 1 cement, 3 sand, and
plaster the outside of the tank with this
mixture to a thickness of -|in. Cost will
depend on the size of the tank.
(1) How could I learn to become a news-
reel camera man in Australia? (2) What
opportunities are there■ outside Australia?
(3) Do netvs-reel organisations purchase
film from free-lance photographers? (4)
Would you recommend the purchase of an
outfit so that I could practise free-lance news-
reel photography ? —9096.
(1) The only way to learn is by linking up
with a news-reel organisation as an appren-
tice. Mr. J. Bruce, Commonwealth Film
Laboratories, Sydney, could advise you fur-
ther. (2) Good in America and England, but
you could not expect an engagement oversea
unless you were fully qualified. (3) Yes. (4)
Seeing that you are inexperienced and that
the demand for news-reels is uncertain the
expense of an outfit —which might cost up to
£3O0 —wouldn’t be warranted. Better to ob-
tain a small camera for taking scenes on a
16mm. film. You might find it possible
to work in with a picture-theatre proprietor
for the taking of local events.
How can I eradicate bugs from a weather-
board house? —9065.
The professional method is fumigation
with potassium cyanide, which is dangerous
when carried out by amateurs. The life
cycle of the insects extends ove ; r 11 weeks,
and several applications of fumigant during
that period are necessary. Good resiilts
can be obtained by thoroughly spraying
walls, skirtings, ceilings, attics, etc., with
kei-osene from a bucket spray pump such as
orchardists use. This must be done at fre-
quent intervals to kill all freshly-hatched
insects. Every crevice must be treated, or
the work will be wasted.
(1) Is goanna oil a cure for rheumatism?
(2) Would it make a good embrocation for
athletes? How can I make a good embro-
cation for runners? —8673.
(1) Many old bushmen believe it has vir-
tues in that direction, but the remedy hasn’t
any sanction from medical science. (2)
Almost any oil that will lessen the friction
of massage will do.
Is it a fact that the thresher shark kills
whales by beating them to death with its
tail?— 9273.
“The Australian Encyclopaedia” says that
the thresher shark “has an undeserved repu-
tation for attacking whales, apparently based
on erroneous observation.”
Does snow lie on the summit of Mt. Kos-
ciusko all the year round? —92lB.
Yes, in patches on the sheltered south-
eastern slopes.
Would cocoanut-palms and Norfolk Island
pines grow about Lake Eyre ( S.A.)? —9369.
As far as experience goes neither would
grow about Lake Eyre, surrounded by salt
water in the soil. The S.A. Woods and
Forests Department established date-palms
at Lake Harry, where they flourished, being
watered from an artesian flow suitable for
irrigation, but salt water was not found suit-
able for the date-palm.
My two-months-old chickens have developed
something wrong with their legs, which are
doubled up underneath them so that they
icalk on the flat of their ivhole leg, from the
joint down. What is the cause and remedy?
—19168. . „ ,
Probably due to unsuitable feeding.
Chickens two months of age should have at
least 5 per cent, of bone meal in the mash
portion of the ration. If this is not being
fed it should be included. A shortage of
green feed causes similar troubles, and it is
suggested that of cod-liver oil
be administered daily to each bird for a week.
How are beef saveloys made? —9261.
Cut the beef into 2in. or 3in. cubes. Have
ready a vessel of boiling water, and simmer
the meat in this for 40 minutes. Pour off
the liquor through a fine sieve and allow
the beef to stand in the liquid for 15 minutes.
It should then be taken out and left to
drain in the sieve for 30 minutes. _ Then
finely chop the beef and put back in the
sieve. Take 41b. good beef-suet for every
pound of beef used. When the beef is
drained, mix the suet and meat as evenly as
possible, adding salt, pepper and herbs (half
teaspoon salt to each pound). Mince finely
in a mincing machine and fill the skins with
it. When filled the skins should be immersed
in boiling water for two or three minutes
and then hung up to cool. en .
enough to handle they should be sectioned
and tied to the required length, scraped
with a blunt knife and rubbed with dry
bran to make them smooth and glossy.
Brief Answers.
E.A.: You will find the anthropometrical
measurements of Australian military cadets given in
detail in the Commonwealth Official Year Book,
No. XI (page 1203). A copy can be seen at the
Public Library, Bent and Macquarie streets,
Sydney F.K.: The world’s production of pet-
roleum in 1927 is estimated to have been
I, barrels, or 14.25 per cent, over the
1926 production.... Inq.: For the year ended
June 30, 1928, the V.R.C. paid £107,308 in stake
money. The added money and sweepstakes for
Randwick and Warwick Farm for the last two
racing years were as follows: 19215-27, Randwick,
added money, £120,775 ; sweepstakes, £21,214.
Warwick Farm, added money, £19,300; sweepstakes,
£4836. 1927-28: Randwick, added money,
£124,950 ; sweepstakes, £21,508. Warwick Farm,
added money, £20,000; sweepstakes, £4392....
W.A.W.: The engine mentioned will run on low-cost
fuels and is guaranteed to operate on kerosene,
distillate and similar fuels as well as gasoline. W rite
for “Witte” booklet and further particulars from
Mark Foy’s, Ltd., Sydney... .A.R.: Lands Depart-
ment, Sydney, suggests that you furnish further par-
ticulars to tile District Surveyor at Grafton (N.S.W.)
for advice as to your position. .. .M.C.: Physical
culture under trained instructors at any of the city
gymnasiums will help you. Also, take up outdoor
sport M.S.D.: The method is described in an
article in “The Handyman’s Enquire Within” (pages
507-510), edited by Paul N. llasluck. You may
be able to borrow the book through the country
lending branch of the Public Library of N.S.W.,
Sydney T.F.J.: Wm. Archer’s “Play-making”;
J. B. Matthews’s “The Drama” ; A. Platt’s “Practical
Hints on Playwriting” ; M. E. Swan’s “How Aou
Can Write Plays” T.A.: Award for horticultural
workers in N.S.W. will be found in the Industrial
Gazette (July-Dee., 1927), obtainable from Govt.
Printer, Sydney M.M.C.: If any difficulty is ex-
perienced in having the claim settled, you should
communicate with the Workers’ Compensation Com-
mission of N.S.W., Bridge-street, Sydney....
H.A.M.L.: Sections 58 and 59, N.S.W. Co-operation,
Community Settlement, and Credit Act make pro-
vision for the devolution of shares or payment of
their value on the death of a member of a society
registered under the Act. The wife should furnish
full particulars to the Registrar of Co-operative
Societies, 36 Young-street, Sydney... .J.J.M.: Whole-
sale houses would .supply goods at wholesale prices,
in quantities as indicated, provided the goods were
genuinely bought for resale. A living might be made
by so travelling with goods, but a hawker’s license
is necessary, and you would need to consider carefully
the country to be covered, as there is considerable
competition. .. .W.D.: Write to the District Naval
Officer, Naval Staff Office, Beach-road, Edgecliff,
Sydney... .M.J.8.: The ticket did not draw a prize.
.... J.M.: No market worth while. Try Goanna
Salve Pty., Brisbane F.C.0.: Write to Cummings,
Anderson, Ltd., 3 Hamilton-street, Sydney... .C.P.N.:
Write to A. S. Gidley, 106 Douglas-street, Stanmore,
Sydney... .A. J.G.: Presumably, you would be covered
over the interim period. If you give the p.n. you
will have to meet it on the due date. There is no
option in the matter. Before signing anything you
should ascertain from the co. your exact position
and also obtain information as to the paid-up policy
and its value F.T.C.: (1) At June 30, 1927, the
Commonwealth Bank of Australia had a paid-up
capital of £4,000,000 and £1,217,750 in reserved
profits; the Bank of N.S.W. had a paid-up capital of
£6,875,000 and £4,880,315 in reserved profits. (2)
Submit full particulars to the Federated Engine
Drivers and Firemen’s Association, Trades Hall,
Sydney... .B.B.: See “Wild Cat” Monthly, July,
1928. .. .R.H.: None of the books mentioned are of
any commercial value. .. .1.D.: Invalid and old-age
pensions are not payable to anyone who does not
reside within the Commonwealth of Australia. Appli-
cation could be submitted for consideration after
the person referred to returns to Australia. .. .J.A.S.:
Buyers prefer water-rat skins in their raw state,
undried. For preservation, dust naphthalene on both
sides of the skin. Wilcox, Mofflin, Ltd., Sydney,
may be able to find you a market for them
J.H.: If you have resided continuously in Australia
for 20 years you are eligible to make application
for the o.a.p A.H.M.: The rate of Federal tax
payable on the taxable income for the year of
assessment is the rate which would be applicable
to the average annual income for the year of
assessment and the four years prior thereto....
M. : (1) The Hood was launched in 1918. The
length between perpendiculars is 810 ft.; length
overall, 860 ft. ; beam, 104 ft. ; mean draught,
28ft. 6in.; load displacement, 41,200 tons; speed,
32 knots; horsepower, 144,000 ; armament, 8 15in.
guns, 12 5.5 in. guns and 6 21in. torpedo tubes.
(2) The last year of a century is not leap year
unless its number is divisible by 400; 1800 and
1900 were not leap years, but 2000 will be a
leap year. .. .A.N.: Very remote; ask any of the
leading island traders W.A.: The following are
useful for the purpose: Cloudy ammonia, washing
soda, bath salts, kerosene, petrol and sand soap....
Y.M.C.L. : A book on fruit preserving, bottling and
canning can be obtained from the N.S.W. Dept, of
Agriculture, Sydne.v, for about Is. 6d. Apply also
for information concerning machinery. .. .J.Y.: You
would not be eligible. Candidates for the R.A.N.
must be of European descent— .A.M.: (1) Write to
Q’land Machinery Co., Intercolonial Boring Co.,
E.S.C.A., and Evans, Deacon and Co., all of Brisbane.
(2) Not good. (3) Write to the manufacturers.
....Picturesque: It is worth about £5. You will
find, however, that it will be very hard to sell. Try
the leading art-dealers.... A. 8.: Send them to Rev.
W. E. Dorin, Australian Inland Mission, Carnarvon
(W.A.). Australian newspapers can be posted to
addresses within the C’wealth for Id. per lOoz. On
packages containing more than one newspaper the
postage is not higher than that chargeable on a
package of printed papers of the same weight. Printed
papers rate is Id. per 4oz P. J. 8.: (1) A list of
Sydney libraries will be found on page 2386, “Sands’
N. Directory, 1929.” (2) School of Arts Debat-
ing Club, 275 a Pitt-street; Y.M.C.A., 325 Pitt-street.
K.J.M.: (1) Vocational Guidance Bureau, Dept.
of Education, Sydney. Don’t think there are similar
bureaux in other States. (2) Will answer later....
J.D.; Regulation 37, Q’land Primary Producers’ Co-
op. Assocs. Acts, 1923-26, -has been rescinded and
the following inserted in place of it: —“ln every
case where auditors are employed by an association,
each of them shall retire in each year and shall be
eligible for re-election subject to the approval of
the Auditor-General.” The regulation applies whether
there are one or more auditors. Before re-electing an
auditor, the association should be satisfied that he
has obtained the A.G.’s approval, but in the event
of that not having been done, the practice has
hitherto been to allow the auditor to obtain approval
before commencing the audit.. .(Many others mailed.)


IMMEDIATE
m
m
: s.#■«
m
?Hai
sns
%
fk>f
£ofl
0?s
PRICE
251-
Postage, //- extra.
THE BOOK THAT
IMMEDIATELY changes your
Ideas , Thoughts, Actions.
IMMEDIATELY changes your
Purposes and Plans in Life.
IMMEDIATELY changes your
Methods of Handling others.
IMMEDIATELY changes your
Outlook for the Future.
IMMEDIATELY changes you
from a Wisher to a Winner.
INSTANTANEOUS
PERSONAL MAGNETISM
A Totally New And
Different Personal Magnetism ,
Quick And Easy To Learn!
THIS huge volume is the first book in the history
of the world that immediately produces definite
mental changes which benefit the individual
in practical ways affecting his entire status in lile.
This new instantaneous self-teaching process at
once enlarges the reader’s earning, capacity through
the greater magnetic influence which he exerts with
surprising effect upon all his associates or employers
or customers or others with whom he wishes to do
business or attract to him for reasons of personal
advantage. The same powerful magnetic control,
through this new system, is just as swiftly evident
in all his social and domestic relationships. And
most surprising of all, the new “instantaneous per-
sonal magnetism” is the only known force that
will overcome completely all the handicaps ot an
insufficient education !
It Releases the Giant of Magnetism that Dwells Within Yo
THE TECHNICAL BOOKSHOP,
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS.
For Greater
Cooking Heat
FLORENCE
WICK LES S
OIL
STOVES
jg*
Perfected Florence Burner
focusses flame on to the cook-
ing vessel. No wick—the
Florence operates on most
advanced principles of com-
bustion engineering, mixing
vapor from kerosene with
heated air. This assures com-
plete combustion and intense
heat.
So focussed heat saves your
time and money.
Giant burner heats the oven
more economically than two
standard burners; three burners
left free for top-stove cookery.
Deep, roomy grid top; wide
warming shelf at top—two
convenient shelves below.
Cast-iron lids for simmering, so
designed that boiled-over
liquids cannot interfere with
the flame.
Write jor jree Descriptive leaflet TO-DAY!
You’ll be interested also in Nu-lite Lamps
and Comfort Benzine Irons. Let us send
you Free Illustrated Leaflets TO-DAY.
We can supply all Electrical Accessories at savings.
BRANDTS Lm
“EVERYTHING FOR LIGHT AND HEAT,"
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: M 4651, MAI 002.
Queensland Agents: J. T. Greenlees & Co., Ann Street, Brisbane. Michelmore & Co., Mackay.
Armstrong, Ledlie & Stillman, Cairns. Samuel Allen & Sons, Ltd., Townsville.
AGENCIES OPEN IN OTHER STATES.
A Camel
travels 11 days, SAFELY
on ONE water supply••
/
O'
\bur Car,
500 miIes,SAFELY on .
ONE complete lubrication /
Drive a camel beyond his “lubrication” limit
and there is trouble. So it is with a motor
car. Then you meet the irresistible forces of
wear and tear and friction. You pay repair
bills of which 80 per cent are due to this one
easily avoided cause.
Of course you will not take this chance when
Alemite —the scientific method of complete
lubrication—may be had so easily and econom-
ically. For with Alemite, used regularly every
500 miles, the chief source o|f mechanical
trouble is removed.
Alemite forces lubricant, under tremendous
pressure, to every Vital Chassis Bearing on
your car. It pushes out old, gritty grease, forc-
ing in clear, clean, solidified oil. That s why 95
per cent of all American cars now manufac-
tured are equipped with Alemite.
We suggest you ask your nearest dealer or
write for full particulars.
What Alemite-ing Does
for Any Car
1. BEARINGS: Genuine Alemite High Pressure
lubricant forced into every vital chassis bear-
ing with Alemite equipment. Every 500 miles.
2. GEARS: Differential and transmission thor-
oughly flushed out by a special Alemite process.
New Alemite Gear Lubricant forced in. Every
2,500 miles.
3. SPRINGS: Given an Alemite Graphite
Spring Bath. They are sprayed with special
Alemite Graphite Penetrating Oil—every 500
miles. Eliminates squeaks and makes car run
smoother.
Genuine Alemite-ing-—every 500
miles—costs no more than ordinary,
inefficient “greasing.” Then notice
how your repair bills decrease; how
much better your car runs.
rgsisa
See your nearest dealer or write for particulars.
ALEMITE MANUFACTURING CORPORATION
DIVISION OF STEWART-WARNER
Chicago, U. S. A.
Full particulars from
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH
Resident Manager,
250 Pitt Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following Representatives:
Bennett & Wood, Ltd 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
Motor Supplies, Ltd • • Br,s _ l T*
Atkins (W. A.), Ltd 894 Hay Street Perth
E. A. Machin & Co., Ltd. . 535 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
Cornell Limited, 122 Pirie Street, Box G. P. 0., 496 E., Adelaide
For the Dominion of New Zealand:
Jas J Niven & Co., . 152 Wakefield Street, Wellington, N. Z.
ALEMITE
High Pressure Lubrication


WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most-up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydney!
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
GILT-EDGED SECURITY
FOR ALL i|, MOTORISTS.
*‘Silver Edge”
BRAKE
f t
“Gold Edge”
LINING
WON’T FAIL YOU!
RAYBESTOS BELACO LTD.
LONDON.
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Melb.
THE
Farmers 8 Settlers
Co-operative Insurance
Co. of Australia, Ltd.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL,
£250,000
Fire, Accident, Marine, Motor-car,
Workers’ Compensation, Growing
Crops, Stacks, Wool, Fencing.
SPECIALISING IN INSURANCE
FOR THE MAN ON THE LAND
ACTIVE AGENTS REQUIRED
WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
N.S.W. Office:
Wingelo House, Angel Place, Sydney
F. D. POWELL, Manager.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CRPARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
PRIZES FOR FARM HINTS.
Thousands of men fail on the land be-
cause they don’t know how to succeed;
many thousands more succeed less than
they should because they lack proper
guidance.
“The Bulletin” wants to encourage
farmers and scientists who know to help
those who don’t know.
With that object it offers two prizes of
£2O and £lO for the most useful contri-
butions to the “Land” pages during the
six months ending June 30 next.
All contributions submitted, whether
published or not, will be considered in
awarding points, and the prizes will go
to the winners of most points.
Points will be awarded for interest and
practical usefulness.
The prizes are additional to the usual
payment for published contributions.
♦
VALUE OF FALLOWING.
“Will Goyne”: Westralia expects a 32-
million-bushel wheat harvest, but many
growers have lost on their year’s operations.
However, good farmers got good crops even
where conditions were adverse. A. C. Cham-
berlain, of Wilgoyne East, averaged 19J
bushels in his best paddock on 4J)in. of rain.
Crops grown on land newly cleared without
fallow rarely paid expenses.
The Agricultural Bank, on receiving the
reports of its inspectors, resolved to do some-
thing practical about the matter. In certain
districts no advances will be made for super,
that is to be used on unfallowed land. In
the past advances were made of ss. per
acre up to 600 acres. Now advances (in
the districts affected by the new rule) will
be at the rate of 10s. per acre, with a maxi-
mum of 300 acres. Nature has taught West-
ralian wheat-growers a lesson, and the bank
is rubbing it in.
DRY TREATMENT OF SEED WHEAT.
“Icliabod”: “Paul C.’s” advice re bluestone
pickling of seed wheat and oats is all right,
but it is preferable to use dry dust. Wet
treatment has the disadvantages that it must
be done at sowing time, when you are busy;
that it destroys a small percentage of the
seed, and that wet seed cannot be sown in
dry ground. Dry dusting may be done any
time between harvest and sowing; it stimu-
lates germination ; dry seed may be sown in
dry ground, and it will not shoot before rain
comes. Also, experiments in Australia and
U.S.A. have shown that copper carbonate is
a more efficient bunticide than copper sul-
phate.
All seed should be graded and cleaned,
and many makes of combined graders and
dusters are obtainable. If grading is not
practised, a small machine for dusting only
may be bought cheaply ; or if nothing better
is obtainable quite satisfactory results may
be obtained by placing a small quantity of
seed and powder in a box or bag and shaking
thoroughly. Use about 2oz. of powder per
bushel, as no more will adhere to the grain.
TOBACCO-GROWING IN AUSTRALIA.
“Cam” : There is no reason whatever why
Australia should not produce her own tobacco
instead of sending over £2,000,000 to the
U.S.A. every year. In this country there is
land which will grow every sort of tobacco,
right from the Daly River (N.T.), where the
Jesuits successfully cultivated the weed over
a hundred years ago, to Victoria in the other
extreme corner of this continent.
The two chief factors which have militated
against the extension of the industry in Aus-
tralia are the prevalence of blue mould (a
parasitic fungus disease) and the poor aroma
of our product.
Experiments at the Bathurst experiment
faim have shown that if the temperature of
the seed beds is not allowed to fall below
45 deg. F. and the plants are not too heavily
watered, blue mould does not make its
appearance. Seed beds should be established
on well-drained land, not too close to standing
water, as stagnant water is liable to cause
blue mould.
It is a good plan to place about half an
inch of pure sand on top of the bed before
sowing, as this will conserve warmth and
thus minimise the danger of the disease,
besides preventing the bed from caking when
watered. I have tried many types of seed
beds, but have found glass-covered beds to
be a long way ahead of any others. This
system of raising plants maintains an even
temperature within the bed and the amount
of moisture is very easily controlled. I
have never seen any sign of blue mould
on these beds, while the old hessian-covered
bods have shown traces,
Another method is to make wooden trays
about sft. x 2ft.. filled with good soil. These
are placed under cover in extremely wet
weather and if blue mould appears they are
removed to the curing barn, where the
temperature is slowly raised to SO deg. F.
This heat is fatal to the mould.
The factors that govern aroma are soil
and climatic conditions and the nature of
the fertilisers used. Seed of heavy, dark
tobaccos, if grown on light soils, will not
produce a true type and will therefore be of
poor quality. Conversely, a heavy soil is
not capable of producing bright, fine textured
leaf from any seed.
Soils containing a large percentage of
chlorine will not grow leaf of good burning
qualities. Potash is the most important
plant food for tobacco. It not only improves
the burning qualities and promotes healthy
growth, but it adds body to the leaf and
renders the plant less susceptible to diseases.
Nitrogen is also of importance, although too
much may be as bad as not enough. This
element conduces to large leaf growth and
a rich green color in the plant, but an
excess causes coarse growth and renders the
crop more liable to be attacked by leaf spot
and other diseases. Phosphoric acid in the
plant food hastens maturity, but too much
in proportion to other plant foods tends
to ripen the crop prematurely.
A good complete fertiliser is one containing
the following:
Per acre.
Sulphate of ammonia ~ .. 140 lb.
Acid phosphate .. .. .. 500
Sulphate of potash ~ .. 200
Total 840 lb.
The Ohio Experiment Station has been
conducting experiments with tobacco since
1903 and has found that when the fertiliser
contains plenty of potash in the sulphate
form, the percentage of potash in the leaf
is high and the chlorine content low—con-
ditions essential to a good aroma. By the
judicious choice of soil and fertilisers the
Australian grower should be able to produce
a tobacco equal to the American product.
POINTS OF THE RAM.
“Sambo” : In selecting rams, whether the
buyer’s object is to produce wool or mutton,
the first consideration is sound constitution.
Choose rams with big noses, roomy nostrils
and broad across the snout. Width under
the jaws and short neck are good. Breadth
between shoulders, forelegs with a prominent
brisket, and a deep chest are further Signs
of good constitution.
Character, density and evenness are the
chief considerations from the wool stand-
point. A ram that does not carry the curl
right out to the tips of his fleece will get poor-
woolled progeny, likely to grow fleeces with
perished and wasty tips. A ram on which
the fleece is open and does not give a solid
handful when grasped will produce light
clippers. A considerable variation in the
“count” of a ram’s wool between shoulder
and rump is undesirable. Such Wool is re-
duced in value, and kemp or hairiness is
likely to develop in the lambs.
Both in wool and mutton breeds, short legs
are a desirable feature. A comparatively
short-bodied, compact ram is best for wool
and a longer body an advantage for mutton-
breeding. A ram should have a bold, fear-
less walk, and be quick and decided in move-
ment.
Generally speaking, sheep coming from a
wet to a drier climate do well, but it is
wise to buy rams from a country and climate
as nearly similar to your own as possible.
FAT LAMBS IN QUEENSLAND.
“W.P.D.” : Men in the coastal districts of
Queensland who wish to stock their holdings
•with crossbred sheep for lamb-breeding fre-
quently inquire as to what are the best
crosses for the purpose. That, of course,
depends on circumstances. The whole of the
coast country from Tweed Heads to Mackay
is well watered, has an abundant rainfall
and is free from prolonged droughts. Much
of the land is of good quality and will grow
nutritious exotic grasses and fodder plants
to perfection. The climate is equable and
not subject to severe cold. Native grasses
are mostly poor and must be displaced by
approved varieties. These conditions also
apply to the tablelands and highlands lying
behind, except that these occasionally ex-
perience sharp frosts, but hardy grasses such
as Kikuyu, Sudan. Rhodes and Wimmera
rye, as well as soya beans and other legumes,
will withstand these. .
Southdown cross lambs are the kind most
favored by buyers at Smithfield, but Queens-
land lamb-breeders will find that other
crosses will give better returns. Downs
lambs mature late and are not ready for the
works until they are 44 months old, while
Dorset Horn lambs are fit for freezing six
weeks earlier, and that is an important con-
sideration where feed is short. The wool
of Downs sheep and their crosses is of low-
grade quality, and the presence of black
hairs decreases its value. The fleece of the
Lincoln cross (and with these one may
include Corriedales) is very satisfactory, but
the lambs are not such as to command the
highest prices. Leicester and Border Leices-
ter crosses give good yields of saleable wool;
the lambs mature early and find a ready
market, and they are hardy.
For the production of early lambs of
quality only second to Downs crosses, I
would advocate the Dorset Horn-merino cross.
The pure-bred rams attain a great size. Two
I had Weighed about 2501 b. each. One great
advantage this breed has over other British
sheep is that the rams are always ready for
service, and the ewes are in season at least
once every moiitli in the year. The ex-
perience of those who have imported Dorset
Horns from England is that fleeces are
heavier, and that the wool is less harsh and
of better quality under Australian conditions
in the second and succeeding generations.
Bure-bred Dorset Horns and their crosses
are remarkably hardy and no breed is more
prolific. The ewes are splendid mothers and
give a wonderful supply of milk. It is not
to be wondered at that the breed has become
very popular in Vic., S.A. and Westralia,
where sales of stud sheep are increasing
rapidly.
For country with a rainfall exceeding an
average of 40iu. annually, the Romney Marsh-
merino cross is best, as the hard, flinty hooves
of the Romney are a safeguard against foot-
rot. Romney crosses give good-quality lambs,
which, however, do not mature very early.
In M.L. these sheep predominate. The Rye-
land has a good reputation for producing
early lambs, but the breed is practically
unknown in Queensland.
The breeding of crossbreds in the eastern
division of Queensland has shown a remark-
able increase during the last decade —from
under 10,000 to nearly 100,000 to-day—but
there has been little discrimination in the
choice of breeds, and many farmers have
been content with dealing in odd lots of
any cross. If the breeder expects to succeed,
he must standardise. He must make up his
mind what breed will pay him best, buy good
sires and strong, healthy merino ewes, and
cull his flock carefully and regularly, besides
giving attention to the fodder grasses and
plants he puts down. The coast districts and
tablelands of Queensland can supply half a
million fat lambs annually for the oversea
market if the business is conducted as a
business.
PUMPKIN AND CO.
“Bretella”: Pumpkins, melons, marrows
and squashes are useful sidelines for any
farmer, as they will profitably occupy land
that would otherwise be idle. Headlands
round a standing crop, hill slopes, and land
that is partly covered with tussocks, stones
or fallen timber can be used to grow these
trailing plants, which are readily saleable
and also have a high value as stock food.
They are all very sensitive to frost, and
require warmth and moisture. The seed in
frost-free districts should be sown in the
spring. The late spring or early summer
months are more suitable times for frost
districts. The germination percentage is
never high, and all seed should be covered
with a flannel steeped in boiling water to
soften the hard outer skin before sowing.
Prepare a circle with a diameter of about
6ft., which can be worked with hand tools
if the plough cannot be used. Six seeds
should be planted in each bed, and the plants
thinned out to two if there are more. If
ordinary farm manure can be worked into
each bed vigorous growth is assured in nor-
mal seasons. Otherwise a liberal dressing of
equal parts of super, and bonedust will help
the plants along. This should be worked
over the whole bed, as the plants send roots
a long way out from the main stem.
Fertilisation of the female flowers is essen-
tial to fruiting. While this is performed
by bees a good crop is more likely if the
male flowers with the pistil are taken off and
shaken vigorously over the female flowers
when both are properly formed.
If it is desired to keep these vegetables
they should be cut off with a short stalk
adhering and stored in an airy shed. Pump-
kins are the best keepers; they should
be cut when it is still difficult to pierce the
rind with the thumbnail. Ripening can be
hastened by placing these vegetables on a
sheet of roofing-tin in the sun. A handful
of straw should be placed under them or
they may scorch and then deteriorate very
quickly.
Of the many varieties to choose from the
following; are recommended : Pumpkin, "Iron-
bark’ 1 ; squashes, “French l*ot Iron,” “Ford-
hook” or “Green Hubbard”; marrows,
"Long White” or “Cocozelle”; melons,
“Citron” or “Mammoth Long: Pie”; water-
melons, “Ice Cream” or “Cuban Queen”;
rockmelons, “Rocky Ford,” “Fordhook” or
“Hackensack Early.”
EARLY TOMATOES.
“II.J.”: Early tomato-growing is one of
the money-spinners in the market garden.
In May prepare the soil. A mixture of cow
manure, sand and loam is the best, as it
allows air to help germination. Out of
cardboard make small, square boxes (say.
Sin. cubes), fill with prepared soil, and in
each place a seed. When the plants have
grown, remove the cartons to the open soil
and plant them. The cardboard will rapidly
rot away. Protection from frost and wind
is necessary.
If the grower has a glass-house the seed
can be sown at any time and the plants set
in trays. The best results from indoor cul-
ture are obtained when most of the leaves
are removed. If any sign of wilt or dis-
ease appears remove the affected leaves;
if persistent, pull out the plant and put
it in the incinerator.
BEES IN ORCHARDS.
“Hatter”: Experiments were recently
undertaken in the U.S.A. to determine the
value of introducing bees into orchards dur-
ing the blossoming period. Two hundred
colonies of bees were distributed among 150
acres of apples and cherries and left there
for 11 days, during which time three tons of
honey was gathered. One single Mont-
morency cherry-tree and one Macintosh
apple-tree were screened to exclude all in-
sects. The apple-tree was one of a solid
block of 20 acres which had produced
consistently light crops for many years.
The previous season only 700 bushels had
been gathered, and the highest recorded
yield was 1600 bushels. Tubs of water were
placed in front of the colonies and kept
filled with fresh supplies of apple varieties
suitable for cross pollination. The results
were most conclusive. The caged cherry-tree
yielded just 41b. of cherries. A neighboring
tree of the same size, visited by the bees,
yielded 441 b.
The bees showed a decided preference for
the cherry blossoms ,and -worked them as
long as they were available, so that it
seemed doubtful at first whether the apple
crop would be benefited by them. However,
the screened Macintosh-tree Set 25 apples
only, while its nearest neighbor set over 1200,
and a total of 4000 bushels was harvested
from the section —considerably more than
double the largest crop gathered up till that
time. Similarly surprising results were
obtained from experiments with pears and
peaches. It seems conclusively proved that
apiarists and orchardists should work in
conjunction and that spraying operations
injurious to bees should cease while the trees
are in bloom.
WALNUT-TREES FOR SHADE.
“Bad Australian”: I have often wondered
why walnuts have not been more extensively
used for shade trees in the southern States.
Although these trees take much longer to
reach maturity than the Pinus insignia or
the eucalypts they become revenue-producers
a few years after planting, and when full
grown provide better shade for stock than
the Pinus insignia or any of the eucalypts,
except, perhaps, the red and yellow box. I
have seen farms planted with walnut-trees a
chain apart, which, while providing excel-
lent shade for the stock, had no appreciable
effect on the carrying capacity of the land.
The trees returned the owners more revenue
than the grazing.
TREATMENT OF CHICKEN-POX.
“A. 8.”: Chicken-pox affects fowls and
pigeons severely, and is highly contagious.
In hot climates it is especially virulent in
the autumn. As soon as the disease appears
shift the affected birds away from the rest
of the flock, and disinfect their pens with
crude kerosene or paraffin, especially the
perches and nest-boxes. With a sharp knife
remove the scab growths on the birds, and
paint the affected parts with tincture of
iron every four days. When the disease
affects the eyes, bathe with a weak solution
of Condy’s crystals, and then apply a little
carbolised vaseline. Neglect may cause
blindness.
While the outward treatment is going on
administer a solution of loz. Epsom salts
to 1 gallon w 7 ater. Carry on with this for
one week, and the next week substitute a
little sulphur in the warm morning mash
every three days. Alternate on the same
lines week by week till the birds show a
return to normal condition.
Wash your hands with carbolic soap after
handling the affected birds, and there will
be less chance of the disease spreading.


o.
3
cs?;
\
Reinforced sole
and lining
Extra wear is assured by the double
sole of this comfortable Abbey
Boot. The upper, too, is strength-
ened and made more snug with a
complete inner lining of soft leather.
Ideal for wet weather service, or
over rough going, it yet is healthfully
flexible and allows freest play of
foot muscles. All strain is avoided
by the special curving of upper over
the instep arch.
Order by Post .
Three fittings, narrow, medium and
wide, are available in every size.
Specify width as well as length
when ordering. Ask also for the
correct Abbey Polish (6d. per tin).
TAN WILLOW CALF, 47/6
BLACK BOX CALF, 45/-
Enlarged catalogue of men’s, women’s and
children’s footwear post free on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years,
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
Lll7.
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
No disease has caused more loss in sheep than Fluke,
yet for less than one-fifth of a penny per sheep this
can now be cured by the application of Carbon
Tetrachloride. This process has been tested by the
Agricultural Departments of various States in Aus-
tralia, and has received their endorsement. It
requires preparation and additions before it can be
applied to the sheep, and these are skilfully carried
out in
SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
1 pint tins ... 4/6 5/- each
1 quart tins . . 6/6 7/- each
POST Fit HE ON FIIiST ORDER.
1 gallon tins . . 13/6 16/- each
DELIVERED NEAREST RAILWAY STATION
ON FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY., LTD.,
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Cuticura Heals
Annoying Rashes
Bathe the affected parts freely with
Cuticura Soap and hot water, dry with-
out rubbing, and anoint with Cuti-
cura Ointment. This treatment not
only soothes and heals rashes and
irritations but tends to prevent such
conditions.
Soap Is., Talcum 15.3 d.. Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment address:
“R. Towns & Co., .Sydney, N. S. W.”
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a icornan needs to know.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
THE WORLD’S LARGEST COMMERCIAL FORESTRY CO.
SUBSCRIBED SHARE CAPITAL £235,586
SUBSCRIBED BOND CAPITAL £2,750,000
BANKERS—THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND AND THEIR AGENTS.
SOLE BROKERS—SMITH, WYLIE AND CO., LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN BRANCHES AT MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE,
PERTH, HOBART AND NEWCASTLE.
NEW ZEALAND BRANCHES—AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON, CHRISTCHURCH AND DUNEDIN;
AND AT 36-38 NEW. BROAD STREET, LONDON, E.C.2 ; JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA;
BOMBAY, INDIA; SINGAPORE; KUALA LUMPUR, FEDERATED MALAY STATES.
** *+■
*
V • -
$
&
The Martin Ditcher
Ditches, Terraces, Cleans and
Sweetens land at the smallest
cost. It does the work of 100
men and lasts a lifetime.
PRICE:
£35
B.K.
9
m fBiMii i
Chall is House, Martin Place, Sydney.
499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
168-170 Edward Street, Brisbane.
T.T. Building, Light Square, Adelaide.
51 Royal Arcade, Barrack Street, Perth.
PAY AS YOU GO BY CHEQUE ~
' / ?
toJf-
1. It eliminates unwise spending.
2. It saves time and many steps in settling bills.
3. It gives prestige to your transactions.
4- It instils respect through your association with a reputable bank.
At this Bank you are allowed Interest on your
minimum quarterly balance.
rs of Australia %
HEAD OFFICE. 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at London
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
In dam-sinking in ordinary clay, is it prac-
ticable to make the hole by exploding gelig-
nite and then clearing up with a scoop ? —
9098. ' ‘ V
In the circumstances the use of high
explosives will be much more costly than
excavating with a scoop.
(1) What firms purchase peanuts for con-
fectionery purposes? (2) What is the market
price of each type, f.o.b. Brisbane? (3)
What import duty is payable? (4) What is
the most suitable variety of peanut for each
type of manufacture? (5) Where can 1 ob-
tain seed for planting? —BB29.
(1) All the leading manufacturing con-
fectioners ; also Nut Foods, Ltd., 74 Edin-
burgh-road, Marrickville, Sydney. (2) sd.
per lb. for nuts in shells, Bd. per lb. for
No. 1 kernels, s|d. per lb. for split kernels,
2jd. per lb. for reject kernels (for oil
extraction). (3) Id. per lb. of nuts in
shells and 6d. per lb. on kernels. (4) The
nuts being produced are White and Red
Spanish and Virginia Bunch. The former are
preferred for manufacturing purposes and
the latter for the roasting trade. (5) Apply
to the Q’land Peanut Board, Box 83, P. 0.,
Brisbane.
(1) What soil and climatic conditions are
most suitable in N.S.W. for the growth of
broom millet? (2) Is there a constant de-
mand for it, and what is the prevailing price?
(3) What is the best time of year to plant?
—9lOO.
(1) A warm climate and good soils are
essential. Districts with too great a rainfall,
especially in the autumn, are not favorable.
Low-lying land subject to poor drainage
should not be used. Unless irrigation can be
practised, only districts with an annual rain-
fall of at least about 25 inches are recom-
mended. (2) There is a good demand for
high-quality millet at a price averaging
about £5O per ton. (3) Depends on the
seasonal conditions. Usual practice in most
localities is to sow in September, after the
weather lias warmed up. or early in October.
(1) What is the southern limit in N.S.W.
for the successful cultivation of commercial
ginger? (2) What are the best soils and cli-
matic conditions? (3) How is propagation
effected? (4) What is the best time to plant?
(5) Where can I obtain literature on the
subject ? —9232.
(1) Cultivation should be undertaken only
in tropical areas. The far North Coast of
N.S.W. is the southern limit. (2) None but
the richest soils should be chosen. The
plant will not thrive on sands and clay,
or in a dry soil. A rich vegetable loam is
suitable, but must be well drained, or the
rhizomes (underground stems) will rot. The
plant endures a wide range of climates in the
tropics, for it may be grown from sea-level
to high mountain regions provided the rain-
fall is abundant or irrigation is adopted; it
requires plenty of moisture. (3) Propaga-
tion is effected entirely by cuttings, long
divisions of the rhizomes being set out at
once in the fields; no preparation of. plants
in nursery beds is necessary. A rhizome
is carefully divided into small pieces, care
being taken to leave at least one shoot bud
on the cutting, and each piece is then planted
in the hole that has been specially prepared
for it. (4) Sept, and Oct. (5) See article
“Man on the Land” page (B. 13/2/’29) ; also
N.S.W. Department of Agriculture leaflet,
“The Cultivation of Ginger.”
(1) Would a top-dressing of super, im-
prove the carrying capacity and quality of
feed on lightly-timbered, unrung coolabah
country, with a light rainfall, in the hot n.-w.
of N. S. Wales? (2) Or on Mitchell-grass
plain country? (3) How long would it be
before an improvement was noticeable in
avei-age seasons? (4) Any special machinery
necessary would have to be brought here over
400 miles by rail from Sydney. Bearing
that in view, what would be the cost per acre
to top-dress 1000 acres? (5) Would the
improvement to the pasture be permanent?
—9049.
(1) Trials carried out by the N.S.W. Agri-
cultural Department on country similar to
that described by you have not given very
encouraging results. Although a slight in-
crease in the growth of the pasture has been
noticed, the response was not sufficient to
make top-dressing a payable proposition.
(2) The same observations apply. (3)
Shoi’tly after the first rain falls, after the
super, is applied. (4) Special machinery
costing from £2l to £4O, according to the
type purchased, would be necessary. Using
super, at the rate of lcwt. per acre 50 tons
would be required for 1000 acres. This
would cost £5 7s. 9d. per ton plus 10s. 6d.
per ton freight. (5) The benefits from top-
dressing are usually apparent for at least
two years.
(1) Could a grazing property be purchased
in Vic. with £5OO to £lOOO deposit? (2) If
so, and available capital was paid as deposit,
how could purchase of sheep be financed? —
9162.
(1) No, but you might secure a small
mixed farm. A quarter to a third of pur-
chase money is generally required as de-
posit, with balance in equal annual instal-
ments over a term of years, carrying interest
at current rates. (2) Stock and station
agents will give bills from three to six months
on purchase of stock, but the purchaser
would have to satisfy them as to his standing.
(1) How can I graft cuttings on to an
adult peach-tree that is not bearing? (2)
What is the best variety to produce a big,
juicy, early freestone peach? —9oB3.
(1) Budding is more satisfactory than
grafting. The trees to be treated should be pre-
pared in the winter by cutting the main limbs
hard back until only the basal framework is
left, the large w-ounds being coated with coal
tar to prevent the entry of fungus or bacteria.
During the spring a large number of new
growths will develop from adventitious buds
on the portions of the main limbs retained.
These should be thinned out. keeping only
the most suitably-placed growths to receive
the buds of the new variety. Budding may
be carried out during February to April or
as long as the bark will lift easily to allow
the insertion of the buds, which should be
well developed and selected from the current
season’s wood. It would be worth your while
to attend one of the demonstrations of bud-
ding given by the Horticultural Division of
the Dept, of Agriculture each season. (2)
Briggs Red May for Tasmanian conditions.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Bushman”: Never discard an old scythe
blade. Filed down and given a handle it
makes a good rough brush hook, and it can’t
be beaten for cutting corn and sorghum if
it is kept sharp.
“R.J.”: Faulty germination of turnips is
not always the fault of the seed. Experi-
ments have proved that a heavy dressing
of fertiliser will cause a 50 p.c. failure. To
get over this, apply the fertiliser in two
doses —lcwt. super, to the acre with the
seed, and a further lcwt. when the roots
are two months old.
“Bufforp”: If the cockerel has the con-
dition, sell him before the spurs set hard to
the leg. While they are soft and pliable he
is sure to command a fair price as a roaster,
but when the spur is set hard, no matter how
old he is, lie is a stag and his value has
gone.
“P.H.”: Mildew, which always comes with
the humid weather on grape-vines, pumpkin-
vines, rose-trees, etc., can be; checked by
spraying with lime and sulphur (trade
strength) or dusting with sulphur (powder
form). Where the leaves are seriously
affected they should be removed and burnt.
“Mathari”: Plant fruit-trees towards the
cud of April where conditions are favorable.
r ihis will give the trees a chance to settle
before frosts set in and permit them to
make root-growth before the spring. When
planting make the holes square —this gives
the roots a better chance to spread than
if the holes were round.
“Jayjay”: Here’s the recipe for the best
axle-grease I’ve ever used: —Castor oil, lqt.;
linseed oil, lqt.; tallow, 21b.; resin. 21b.;
beeswax, lib. Heat all well together, stirring
to incorporate, and stir till cold. If too
hard, add a little neatsfoot oil; if too soft,
a little more tallow.
“Cuchulain”: It is never safe to put out
any kind of a phosphorus bait trail for
rabbits without first mustering the sheep out
of the paddock, and it is not safe to put
them back till a good shower of rain has
washed the poison out and dispersed the
baits. Part of the trail should be examined,
if the shower be Very slight, before risking
putting the sheep back.
“Bufforp": For eradication of all insect
Rests, try an ordinary painter’s blow-lamp.
The heat that is generated kills all insect
eggs. The cost is light for a small one, and
the thing comes in very handy when re-
painting farm machinery and buildings.
“Wrash”: When removing the bush home-
stead to a new site don’t leave the fruit
trees behind. Wait for winter, when their
leaves are shed; then transplanting will not
harm them, no matter how big they have
grown in the old location. Grub them out
by digging trenches at least two feet on each
side from the butt. Draw them by waggon
or spare chain to their new site. There sink
holes four feet square and deep, in the bottom
of which place two feet of rotting woodheap
manure. Plant the tree and ram in the earth
around its roots. In the case of a large tree,
guy it with wire or ropes until it has talmn
root. If the weather keeps dry give each
transplanted tree an occasional cask of water.
“E.W.”; Incubator-hatched chicks should
be shifted to brooders for a while to harden.
A kerosene lamp placed in the centre of a
well-ventilated room and protected by netting
is generally used ; but where this is not
available, make a brooder out of a box 80in.
high and cover the chicks at night with
hessian. When the covers are lifted next
morning it will be found that the tem-
perature is at least 20 degrees higher than
outside. The chicks must be allowed to
cool off before being let into the open
brooder. They can be trained to go from
the open brooder into the roosting-brooder,
thus saving much lifting, by making a
trap-door in the brooder. Any handling
must be carefully and quietly done, so that
the chicks are not frightened.
“Boree”: In bad cases of swelled head in
rams, first shear the head of the animal,
The head should then be painted with a solu-
tion of iodine and methylated spirits. AboiV
30 minutes after this operation administer
the following mixture: Thymol, 10 grains;
rectified spirit, 20 minims, and enough
treacle to make the dose up to one dessert-
spoonful. The dose should be repeated in
about four hours. Keep the ram in a dark
shed and keep well attended. Have a look
at him frequently, give him milk from a
bottle and when he is able to eat feed him
on a little lucerne.
“Sodnak”: To store lemons, pick the fruit
when it is a pale yellow color, not fully ripe,
taking care that none are bruised. Then
select a damp, shady spot (not water-logged),
put about two inches of sand on the ground
and on the sand place a layer of lemons
close together, but not touching one another,
cover over with another two inches of sand,
and more lemons. Build the stack in pyra-
midal or dome shape, with a pointed top and
about 10 inches of sand on the top layer.
Thatch with grass, and in very hot weather
put damp bags over it to keep it moist.
Lemons stored thus will keep for six to
eight months.
“Trevdee” : What is the best sheep feed?
In the Old Dart, in winter, turnips are
fed, and these are also fashionable in Tassie.
Green peas are also rushed by sheep; in
fact, there are very few r vegetables that
they will not eat. There’s a farmer in Vic-
toria who feeds his flock of ewes (about 280)
almost solely on onions, as he owns stony
ground with very little natural grass on it.
He claims that there is nothing better to
make good mutton.
“C.Q.” : One of the worst disabilities farm-
ers’ families in dry areas suffer from is the
lack of fresh vegetables. Meat and bread,
varied by bread and meat, is the daily diet
of thousands, and their satisfaction with it
isn’t intensified by the city idiots who ask
them why they don’t grow their own green-
stuffs. Realising this. Clapp has started
selling fresh vegetables direct from trucks
to Vic. Mallee settlers. In the space of one
and a half months the department has sent
along the Mildura. Hopetoun and Swan Hill
lines some 4000 bags of mixed vegetables, in-
cluding potatoes, at 6s. the bag, and they
have been snapped up like free tickets to a
mayoral banquet. Not only does the scheme
give the country children the vitamines
they so often show evidence of needing, but
it has resulted in market-gardeners getting
rid of crops which last year, owing to the
restricted Melbourne market, were wasted.


0
'■'Vl
■V'
mm
,V
m
/H
:s.r
I
•.«f»v?«s;v;iV
•ves
i‘C-
If OVERLAND
IPPET
FOURS AND SIXES
sacs
»l
M
wrnmm
WILLYS
OVERLAND
FOURS sixes
'-Cf/T::
'Longer Wheelbases
Higher Radiators
Moi'e Power
Larger Bodies
the last word iu Beauty
Lavish Equipment
and
fIXGER Tip
CONTROL
nhe most notable advance
in driving convenience
since the selfstarter
w
mi
FI
I
$
o
it
*
fait
ses:
as?
jg£3
s££s
■j.£
sta
sss
*2
3@sfe
ss
•S 3
- •
as
*33
*£
t«a
m
ft te
t=S
I
s?*s
m
-?/■
m
m
m
-rCJii.
ks
v»»
ST®*
a-a*,
*Si
r '■
$3 £«■*■;
ss®
>*---V-•*&*frf*Z
•*&*frf*Z
SS4SW
sT.^S
S&fiS
SSM
■s*
»i~2
T^-
m
•V vv^ 1 -'.
KJt^i
isnr
v:—
ijlfcs
>s*-.
artfic
as
K*
m
i
x? 55
-^VJ;
5S
#;
»s
it#-
a t m
-;.v
m
«v-fl>
«fe
2SBSSS
?Sfe
--•-
s£>
*3
g&Bg
s#
£sv
Siit
*n
m
>'.£A:T
fK*«&
gsgte’S
-
jfes
3$
t ; --r*n:
Att£
-a*
I?s>
■->«■
«S
ins
J 7-'=
m
£s>
*m
>J5*?55
ss
3£%i
7^*rr>:
fa
5-Si
fca
SS
mi
a
S£
■k=>
w's
'.V-
-v*fe
2MS3SS
S'f-fovS.
%A
MMS
»t>i
- -
3&3K
S§®?g
fg§*
<S*!'
---i.
m
■SI
'■&s&£
«S
7-^7*^
75T<
■
SSK
•S*S*£s
3=s*
Hr-
i"
3as»
'sfN
W£m
mm
9** S^e«f
at.*s.^
-
ass
ms
5S
sii'
<3f
iKf-
V**
safe
>.<
m
mm
CTgyfc?!
W-fc
:-i->
Sri??'*
i-S?
53M?
a
ia?
Ss-
’4S*?¥
-&Q
m
&&■
mm
V/y-
-y-VV
g«
m
mm
m
•£w-'o'
£8
t7a<
543
s«
*S9n
irca
ss9£S
)»-•>?
o
x tgr* fS &&
di
C.>
c «.v^v^s« eel ’
°'^ I V^^-
\*- % W*° _ & soti ’
*? A.
LOWER
OPERATING COSTS WITH Oj


3
m
m
m
ea
4>e&
m
m
mi
m
m
km.
&i&
m
MS.*
wm
Syfe
I
K 2
NOW Willys-Overland presents for public
judgment the new superior line of Whippet
Fours and Sixes, setting new standards of beauty
and comfort for low-priced cars —the artistic
triumph of master designers—as far ahead of
competition in Beauty and Style as the original
Whippet was ahead in engineering advantages.
The new Superior Whippet introduces the style
of expensive cars to the Four and Light Six field,
just as the original Whippet introduced the
engineering practice of high-priced cars to the
low-priced field.
Greater beauty, longer bodies, higher radiator,
more graceful lines, richer colors, heavier one-
piece full-crown mudguards—all these contribute
WHAT "FINGER-TIP” CONTROL MEANS TO YOU
GREATER CONVENIENCE: A single
button conveniently located in the centre
of the steering-wheel controls all functions
of starting the motor, operating the lights
and sounding the horn.
This fundamental improvement does away
with all troublesome foot-fumbling for the
starting button, a frequent source of annoy-
ance, particularly to women drivers. It
also avoids changing from the comfortable
driving position to reach a light switch on
the dash.
GREATER SAFETY: With the new
“Finger Tip Control” you can at all times
keep your hands on the wheel and your eyes
on the road. An important safety factor,
especially when driving at night.
to the trim, smart appearance that denotes
creative genius and superlative mastery of
modern design.
Roomier Bodies Greater Comfort
More spacious interiors in the new Superioi
Whippet afford added leg room and elbow room.
The wider, form-fitting seats are deeply uphol-
stered —all passengers enjoy relaxed, restful
positions.
The longer wheelbase, plus the lengthened
springs both front and rear, plus oversize balloon
tyres —all combine to make far easier riding under
all conditions.
Greater Power, Greater Speed
In mechanical improvements these new Superior
Whippets advance even over their famous prede-
cessors. The new higher-compression engines
give more than 20% added horse-power, result-
ing in increased speed (at 30 or more miles to
the gallon), faster pick-up and greater hill-
climbing ability. Newly-designed steering gears
make these new cars instantly responsive to the
lightest touch.
Through these further advances in scientific
engineering, dependable performance and mini-
mum operating costs are assured.
Order now for early delivery.
m
m
m
i rifiS
KM
m
m
iMil
Ilf
's4
&.V?
ten
liitlls
->'i
§1
IS
?*&
$4
; f?‘
li
WO
m
HW
tilßilSgM
li
1
$
is
iV5r.
m
mM-i
m
»•
ss?
3m
ssrf
u»a
<V»
l 'V.‘
y.f ji *, !♦ vy «■ s-i
M'
SV.
;!$
n$
•^ViiOcA'ft'tsetli*;
&S
&%>
K.M
m
M
If;
m
m
sz
\&§S-
is
SS»B
.'I W'U'JSfl l
,y- 31 LOT'
Si
m
m
m
m
!X-4^4a
JM
AVI
w
3&
<mj
v-V
vki
//
lA 1 "
iWV
II
o
2
ff. f,f 'r7j S, ' c et,
Ifco. 'J£ At
*«v
:rland whippet fours and
SIXES


ƒ
Promptness—The first essential of Assurance.
P. & C. take pride in acting quickly. Every claim has immediate
attention. This is only one of the many advantages that com-
mend P. &C. Assurance to the man on the land. Policies car-
ried on during times of stress —money set aside each year for loans to
members. P. &C. is linked up with the most influential Co-operative
bodies, and clients’ interests are closely guarded. Here are plain
facts for commonsense men —P. & C. Assurance is the kind you need
—investigate the policies right away. Send for literature.
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Man. Director: H. Fell
PRODUCERS f/CITIZENS
feu COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD
Hlb i!4 • ITO CASTLEREAQH ST. SYDNEY
; t
rJUL" fJT.,
5
i' /£.\ /5
: ..-
S. f
C.
'4 55? •' SB * ..-•
*1 USSSZu.
“Its Quality Never Changes
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
SMOKE-OH!
Let us make the best of the next few days:
they are only Lent to us.
* *
The _ cricketer-journalists are now busy
“summing up the results of the cricket sea-
son.” The funeral writes.
* *
Soviet scientists are designing a rocket in
which to reach Mars. Presumably because
it’s the only red planet.
* *
A London paper mentions that in America
the Prince of Wales was amused by a man
who addressed him as “E.R.” Another case
in which to E.R. is human, to forgive divine.
* *
“Sydney’s street musicians make far more
than the basic wage.” It shows that music
hath alms.
The Canberra Commission was reported
to have lost a house for which it had paid.
When the public learned that the edifice
wasn’t Parliament House interest languished.
* *
Major Segravc on his record speed-burst:
“I scrapped the telescopic sights, and used the
ordinary rifle sights, attached to the bonnet. I aimed
the sights at ‘6 o’clock’ on the distant arc.”
Nothing unique about that, Major. Speed-
bursts with the sight trained on “6 o’clock”
are made in this country every day of the
week.
* ¥
Motoring item: —
The latest cars arc dueoed in
Innumerable hues;
Yet still they color those they hit
The same old blacks and blues.
O’Beau.
HOW IT REALLY HAPPENED.
When Pharaoh arrived on Monday morn-
ing to collect the rent, and found his tenant
gone, he was full of wrath. All the electric
globes had vanished —in fact,
the only movable fitting left
was the bath-heater.
Israel had not been a good
tenant. He had introduced frogs
and snakes to the premises.
Counting up, Pharaoh reckoned
that this stranger with the pro-
minent nose had been respon-
sible for no fewer than 12 dif-
ferent kinds of plague in the dis-
trict. Often, in his anger, he
had told Israel to clear out.
“Veil, gif me formal notice to
kervit,” Israel had said with a
cunning leer and that waggling
movement of the hands which
always annoyed his Egyptian,
creditors.
Pharaoh had then recalled
that by giving his disastrous
tenant notice he would forfeit
his right to immediate payment
of the rent.
“Pay first,” he had cried with bitter curses.
And now Israel had done a moonlight
flit.
Pharaoh marshalled the full forces of his
solicitors, armed them with summonses, and
set off in pursuit. The neighbors mentioned
that the furniture-van had been seen moving
towards the Red Sea, with tlie palms
which Pharaoh had himself planted in the
garden waving on the roof.
The pursuit was a long one, as all legal
pursuits are. It ended on the Sinai Park
racecourse, where the Israel family was
discovered laying the odds. Pharaoh received,
in full settlement of his claims, a cheque on
the Bank of the Red Sea, which was imme-
diately dishonored.
The Gyppo resorted to the Port Said Petty
Debts Court, and was nonsuited on the
ground that he had condoned the offence, if
any, by taking his former tenant's
cheque. More infuriated than ever, he carried
the matter to the higher Courts. The verdict,
on appeal, was against him.
Israel was home and dry ; and the seas of
costs rolled upon Pharaoh, completely over-
whelming him.
Israel started business on the other side
of the Jordan, which is out of the juris-
diction of the Egyptian Courts, had one or
two highly successful fires, and has never
looked back since.
Percy Pawnticket.
A HUNDRED IN THE SHADE.
“He says I have set his heart on fire.”
“How beastly uncomfortable in this
weather!”
According to a visitor, Australians are
practically' unknown in America. Too proud
to skite, apparently.
* *
Daily Pictorial (Sydney) :
“There is no straight-out market on the Doncaster,
but at the close of yesterday’s double business the
more prominent candidates were quoted in the fol-
lowing order: —Ootst”bFefvnnlsd slush sh sh shr sh”
Some of the knowing ones like the chances
of “sh sh.”
* *
Seven British countries have ratified the
treaty for the renunciation of war, and hopes
are high that the M.C.C. and the Board of
Control may yet be induced to sign.
* ¥
THE JUNIOR’S DIARY.
Monday—Arrival of new typist. Her name
is Enid. Lovely name !
Tuesday—Enid smiled at me to-day.
Wednesday—Saw Enid to tram. Have
started to save.
Thursday—Priced engagement rings to-day.
You never know.
Friday—Got a dozen furniture catalogues
just on the chance. Shall ask her to the
flicks to-morrow night.
Saturday—She’s going to the theatre —been
engaged a year. (Personally I’ve no time
for these women.)
G. D.-S.
* *
“Every Australian city now has clubs for women.”
Nevertheless, most of the ladies still use
the good old-fashioned rolling-pin.
* *
“Who,” demands a mother writing to the
S. M. Herald on the subject of the strike,
“has to face the landlord, the butcher and
the grocer when there is no money to pay
them?” Oh, well, mother owes best!
NO PLEASING THESE TEACHERS.
“How’s Maisie gettin’ on at school? She
was backward last year, wasn’t she?”
“Oh, she’s got on wonderful. Fact, the
teacher says she’s too forward now.”
Judging by Australian divorce figures,
there is a movement on foot to achieve
happiness by decrees.
ROUTINE WORK.
She came, and all the waiting world grew
gay.
Bhe smiled, and lent perfection to the day.
She laughed, the soul of girlhood unafraid,
She talked, and men went dotty o’er the
maid.
She sang, while pulses throbbed beneath her
spell,
She danced: her witchery no tongue could tell.
She married one whom all called “lucky
swain.”
Divorced,— she did the whole dam’ stunt
again.
JIM STROUD.
STARTING ONE.
“Passengers on an inward-bound liner here were
amazed to learn that Chapman and Sutcliffe were
merely ill. It had been common talk on board, since
leaving Colombo, that these players had been
attacked with bottles by an Australian mob.’’ —
Fremantle menage to S. M. Herald.
Scene: Deck of Liner.
Miss Blither (to her mother) : “That dear
wireless boy has just told me that poor
Chapman and Sutcliffe are ill; bottles and
bottles of medicine, and”
Colonel Base-Wallaii, D.S.O. ( four deck-
chairs further on, to his wife): “Kill!
Kill! We did plenty of killing in the
war, damme! but what the devil’s it got
to do with cricket! And why this stuff
in bottles? Does the dam’ girl mean to
suggest that these Australian ruffians are
poisoning our lads?”
Mrs. 8.-W.: “More than likely. People
with such accents are capable of anything.”
FINAL
INSTRUCTIONS.
DOCTOR ( about to take his leave ): “And
don’t forget when the baby has finished
with the bottle, it must be taken apart,
dipped in boiling water, washed
thoroughly, and laid away in a clean
place!”
Lady Rumpus (who has overheard the
colonel from the saloon, to her friend, the
Hon. Mrs. Weville ) : “The latest about
these horrible Australians is that they
have been trying to kill our splendid cric-
keters.”
Mrs. W.: “You don’t surprise me. I have
been to the wretched country and I know
them.”
Lady R.: “I have my information on the
best authority. Bottles”
Mrs. W.: “My dear! Say no more. I quite
understand." Bottles are invariably used
for such jiurposes in their so-called Society.
Mr. Toone is to blame; he should have
kept them away from the fashionable
parties.”
Lady R.: “Colonel Base-Wallah says that
two have been killed.”
Mrs. W.: “Which ones?”
Lady I{.: “Mr. Chapman and Sutcliffe.”
Mrs. W. : “As I expected. The captain, and
one of the most dangerous bats in the
team. They chose their victims well.
[Lord Dodder passes.] I suppose you
have heard the dreadful news, Lord
Dodder? The whole ship’s talk-
ing about it. Murder in Mel-
bourne ! A foul crime on the
cricket-field, in which poor Mr.
(’hapman and that nice-looking
young follow Sutcliffe have had
their brains battered out by Aus-
tralian barrackers. With bottles,
of course.”
Lord Dodder: “I’m making my
first visit to the country, but
you don’t surprise me. Not in
. the least. When I was doing
my bit as Town Major near
Etaples, their soldiers usen’t to
salute me, and what I say is
that men who are capable of
omitting to salute an officer who
is risking his all a bare 35 miles
from the firing-line are capable
of anything. Who did you say
have been killed?”
Mrs. W.: “Mr. Chapman and Sut-
cliffe.”
Lord D. : “I’ll hurry off and break it to ’em
at the smoking saloon bar at once.”
10-2-4.
THE UNREASONABLE PARENT.
Baby’s footsteps, pitter-patter,
Dad agrees make home-life matter.
Yet there’s one sight makes him mutter
Curses and with fury stutter —
Baby’s footprints in the butter.
E.M.
PEACEFUL PICKETING.
I just finished me first day’s peaceful
picketin’, which I think I can say was
a success, take it orl round.
A young feller come up ter the gate jist
after I took up me posishun, an’ I sez “Good
day,” an’ he sez “I’m goin’ ter see the
boss.” I gets in front ov him, beeos I always
likes ter look at a man when I’m talkin’,
an’ I closes me rite hand ter stretch me mus-
sels a bit, an’ I sez “He’s round the corner,
first turn ter the left, but mind yer don't
fall over anythink. There’s a terribel lot
ov short-sited blokes goin’ about now,” I
sez, an’ I tells ’im about a thing that ’ap-
pened when I was peaceful picketin’ once
before. “There’s a cove comes ter see the
boss jist like you now,” I sez, “an’ I told
’im w’ere to go, an’ the cow turns round
an’ runs strait inter me fist an’ gets his
nose broke an’ his two eyes bunged up, an’
the amb’lance took him to hospital." An’ I
tells him about sum more things like that,
an’ ’im bein’ a bit pale, I sez a walk in the
park wood be better’n seein’ the boss, an’
he sez yes, he thinks it wood, an’ goes
off.
A lot ov blokes come like that, an’ I worns
them all about lookin’ out they don’t kerlide
with things, such as stones or worse, an’
they orl seemed ter jerry the danger.
But one bloke started argyin’ the point, an’
sez the strike ain’t justyfide, an’ then he
show lie’s a reel blackleg be sayin’ his family
must have somethin’ ter live on, the same as
mine, an’ he’s goin’ in ter start work, an’
the way he looks at me makes me cough
an’ stamp me right foot, an’ eleven ov me
cobbers comes over quick an’ sez not ter
hit him fer callin’ me a
- , ns we must be law’-abidin’,
an’ there’s a copper coinin’, an’ they’ll all
swear they heard ’im, an' fer me ter give
’im in charge, w’ich I did, an’ we’ll all be
up at tlie cort termorrer ter teach him
wot’s wot.
There was on’y one other cove wanted
ter go in after me wornin’ him. an’ he gives
me a shuv agin the gate-post an’ starts
walkin’ in, but he on'y got a few yards w’en
one ov me cobbers remembers ’im as a bloke
wot owed ’im a tenner, an’ they all comes
oter agen an’ asks him for it, an’ he sez he
never ow’d it, an’ him bein’ that sort ov
a repudyatin’ bloke, me cobbers didn’t like
it, an’ there bein’ no cops about ter interfear
with justis bein’ dun, they goin’ to give him
a good hidin’ fer owin’ the tenner, an’ he
gets over the fence an’ clears out.
That was all, but it was prety good for
one day, I reckon.
Well, ’ere’s for the Corse an’ down with
Capitalism !
BIG BILL HOGAN.
THE WOMAN PAYS.
“I’m going to pay.”
“No, 1 am. I insist.”
“No, you’re not. I won’t have it.”
“I just will.”
“I’ve got four coppers. Do let me, dear.”
“But I want to get change.”
Conductor: “Fares! Fares, please.
FARES !”
“Oh —are —you —er —going to?”
“You said you wanted to get change!”
“But —I thought”
“FARES, PLEASE !”
“Oh, he’s gone—let him.”
“This is our section; let’s get out.”
“Yes, let’s.”
ROSTAND.
Q.E.D.
Women live longer than men, ice hear
On authority that’s conservative —
A fact which proves in a manner clear
That paint is a splendid preservative.
RIC.


11l
s« : S54$::
W
y.^>
mm
v->-
m
;
prai
m ' fmm
■
m
l K°L
■
m.
m
pn
I tp!
iiiiliiii
111 l
I 1 i
•sas&siasii
.
MM
HMli
m
zm
>s*
&S,
mm
m
m
mmz
H
REFRESH YOURSELF WITH AO.
It’s a long day that has no yearning for a cool
refresher in a long glass. The thought conjures
up visions of golden K.B. Lager, glittering
invitingly under its crest of snow, promising all
the enjoyment that only a TRUE Lager can give.
At a break in the day, or on the way home, a
glass of K.B. rouses an appetite and clears away
the mental cobwebs. K.B. is a TRUE Lager.
TOOTHS
.rewed and Bottled by TOOTH & GO. LIMITED, Kent Brewery, Sydney.
a true
LAGER


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic P.isk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
21.
EARN ALL YOU CAN—
SAVE ALL YOU CAN—GIVE ALL YOU CAN
Such was the good advice of John Wesley. You are, of course, entitled
to earn all you can, and no doubt are bending all your energies in that
direction.
Nevertheless, what you save will, in the long run, probably count for
more than what you earn.
Use the easy saving plan. Open a Commonwealth Savings Account,
and be faithful to it, for the sake of your future needs and that you
may be able to give when it is your duty to give.
Cbinmomvcaltl) Savinas lank of Hustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
Monday to Friday—
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
From 7.30. Minimum Charge, 10/-
Saturday, Late Gala Night.
Special Table d’HOte Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30
From 10 o’clock, Special Supper 12/6; or
a la carte, minimum, 12/6
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 to 5, 4/-. Parties of six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 6.30, 5/-
The Ambassadors New Delightful
Dance Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and Rhythm that makes dancing an
effortless pleasure.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
A ROGUE IN AMEER
BY-J.B. COOPER
Illustrations by- Percy Liixdsay.
Synopsis: Antonio Saccaoo, a Nea-
politan, gets into trouble and flees to
Paris, where he marries Jeannette
Mortier. There he and Francois
Ncigre murder and rob the Baroness
Bcllarosa. Neigre is arrested, but
Baecaco escapes. Twenty years later,
under the name of Carducci, he is a
hawker on the Fiver Murray,with Jean-
nette and their handsome daughter
Marie. Marie,whom Carducci designs to
use for his own money-making schemes,
has secret meetings with Gerald Dea-
con, who knocks Carducci out when
the hawker discovers them, Gerald’s
father, who wants his son to marry
Hetty Calcroft, pays £25 compensa-
tion on condition that Carducci will
collect it in Bourke. He does so, and
then so arranges the destruction of his
launch that he collects the insurance.
With this money he opens a fruit-
shop in Melbourne, where Marie sits
as model to Edward Felspar. Fel-
spar in his student days in Paris had
■married a girl named Lisette Delas,
but she left him when money ran
short. Later a body taken from
the Seine was identified as hers.
Meanwhile Marie and Gerald had ex-
changed impassioned letters, and Jack
Carew, a Murray River farmer, had
declared his love for Belly. Felspar’s
picture, “Marketing in Paris,” is con-
sidered a masterpiece, and Carducci,
scheming to make money out of Fel-
spar, listens outside his door while he
and. other artists are discussing the
picture. Felspar, also in love with
Betty, who is in Melbourne with her
relations, the Clintons, decides to tell
her of his Paris marriage,
FELSPAR turned ill, but he could not
sleep. He heard the clock strike
every hour until four o’clock, when
he dozed off.
At seven o’clock he awoke with a start.
Someone was knocking at the studio door.
Sleepily he hoped the too-early visitor
would go. But the knocking continued.
“Mistere Felspar!”
The voice was directed through the key-
hole.
Felspar recognised the voice of Carducci.
‘Come in. What do you want here at this
hour?” he asked angrily.
Carducci made a profound bow, so low
(hat Felspar could only see his poll with
its black mop of hair. “Pardon! Pardon!
The occasion, ah, a happy one!” he said, seat-
ing himself.
Antonio Carducci was looking his greasy
and shining best that morning. His thick
black hair had been freshly smeared with
pomade and plastered well down on the fore-
head. His predatory eyes were restless in
their sweeping glances. He was wearing his
gala coat of brown velveteen, a turned-down
collar—a size too large for even his big, fat
neck —a red silk tie under his chin, the
ends in fringing tassels blowing on his vel-
veteen waistcoat. On two of his large
fingers were rings; and he was smoking one
of his most unpleasant cigars.
Smiling his oily smile, he said: “Mistere
Felspar, to you the felicitations on the pic-
ture. Much I hear everywhere—Danoli’s,
the artists, everywhere.” He rose and offered
his hand to Felspar.
Felspar motioned the Italian with a wave
of his hand to resume his seat, saying, “That’s
all right!”
Carducci sat down and sighed that so
much goodwill on his part was wasted.
“It’s very nice of you to come to see
me, very nice. I’d have felt neglected if
you had not awakened me to tell me how
friendly you are,” Felspar remarked. “But
I won’t detain you, as I suppose you want
to get back to your shop.”
“No, no, no,” protested the Italian with
a low bow. “The shop have I sold to Mis-
tere Theopolos. He take it over to-day.”
“Tlieopolos? Is he a Greek nobleman?”
“Ah, no. You poke the fun at me, Mis-
tere Felspar.”
“I’ll poke this maul-stick in your eye if
you don’t sit still and keep your hands off
things. Here, I like privacy. I think you
had better go home and teach Mr. Theo-
polos how to do the three-card trick with
the fruit.”
Carducci indulged in a chuckle. “Not me
to teach him nothing,” he declared.
“I don’t suppose you can, but go home
and try.”
“No!”
Felspar looked at the man in astonish-
ment. “You say you won’t go? Did I
hear you aright?” asked Felspar.
“Pardon!” replied Carducci with subser-
vience and a low bow. “Mistere Felspar,
you know that Mistere Lock say that he
wish Marie to go to Sydney and sit for
him?”
Felspar nodded and lit his spirit lamp.
Just enough water remained in the jug from
overnight to fill his little saucepan. Felspar
was very particular about having his morn-
ing shave.
“I go to Sydney myself this afternoon
train”—Carducci indicated his clothes with
a sweep of his beringed fingers. “Your pic-
ture, Mistere Felspar, bring much money,
eh? And the fares of Marie and her father
as the little bonus, eh?”
Felspar lathered his face, and swept his
razor over it. The Italian puffed his cigar
and studied the contents of the room. The
studio was much as he knew it, except for
“‘But artists have married, their models before
to-day, haven’t they, Mr. Felspar?’ asked Madge.”
the untidiness of the past night’s entertain-
ment. On a small table was a brass tray
littered with butts and dead matches and
a whisky bottle, still about a quarter full.
On a shelf beside the camp-bed was Fel-
spar’s watch and chain, and beside it a
wallet that contained papers. Having sized
up the setting, and evolved a course of
action, the Italian said:
“Well, Mistere Felspar? What you
think?”
“No hope,” replied the artist.
“No? The picture you will sell for £500?”
“Who told you that?”
“Someone he know the picture’s value.”
“I hope he is a good prophet,” said Fel-
spar sincerely.
“So was I.”
“You say you are going to take your
daughter to Sydney?”
“Y e s,” re-
plied Carducci.
Felspar wa s
still thinking
of Betty. The
cha ff of the
artists had suggested to him that it
could do him no good to have Marie
frequenting his studio. The devil of it, too,
was that he had felt himself slipping more
than once. Fortunately she had not
tempted him. But it was better she should
be in Sydney. He would be glad to be
quit of her father, too, at the price of their
fares, a ten-pound note.
“I think it’s a good idea your going to
Sydney,” he said. “You’ll find Mr. Lock
very liberal, and he will put your daughter
in the way of getting work. They are capi-
tal fellows in Sydney. Your daughter can
pose admirably. She’ll do all right in
Sydney.”
He was quite enthusiastic, and overdid
it a little. The Italian wondered why Fel-
spar had so suddenly favored the proposal.
“Make it £15,” suggested Carducci in view
of Felspar’s enthusiasm.
Felspar, grown cautious, affected to hesi-
tate.
“Fifteen pounds? Oh, no, Carducci;
you’ve sold your business, so you’ve plenty
of money.”
“No, no! No money. All promise to
pay in far, far months. The picture you paint
bring much money for you. Yet no picture
if not me and Marie we sit.”
“There’s something in that, of course,”
said Felspar. “I could not have painted the
picture unless I had 'found’ her; but re-
member that you didn’t bring her to me.
It is I who have made her position as an
artist’s model, and that’s worth something.”
“Ah, yes, but you give me a little more,
eh? I open a shop in Sydney. I try a
shop there,” said the Italian.
“You do—in Sydney. That’s the place
for fruiterers and fish-and-chips men. Well,
I’ll give you the £lO, and perhaps a bit
more when I get a cheque for the picture.
I’ll see—l’ll post it to you. Send your
address in Sydney to me. Is Mrs. Carducci
going too?”
“Oh, yes, she come sure. She no lose
sight of me.”
“Too valuable, eh?”
“That is as you think,” observed Car-
ducci with a bow.
“Ah, Mistere Felspar,” he added, “whisky
you say to me?”
“Certainly, take as much as you like,”
replied Felspar.
The Italian poured out a strong nobbier.
Then he looked around for water.
“Dear me!” he said, holding up the empty
jug.
“Of course; I have used all the water.
Never mind, wait a couple of minutes and
I’ll bring you some,” said Felspar.
“Too much trouble I was,” protested Car-
ducci. “Pardon me, please.”
At once, as Felspar left the studio, Car-
ducci rose and looked quickly through the
wallet lying on the shelf. Among the
papers he found one with an official seal
which impressed him, and he put it into
his pocket.
When Felspar returned Carducci was sit-
ting where Felspar left him. He was still
holding the glass of whisky in his hand
waiting for water. Felspar handed the
water to him, and the Italian added a drop
to the whisky.
“The luck!” he said, and when he had
drained the glass he commenced another
cigar.
“You must have a great constitution,”
remarked Felspar.
“Yes, it was like that,” replied Carducci,
mentioning the artist to have a drink himself
“No,” Felspar replied. “I keep a bottle
of whisky for friends. I don’t drink as
much of it in a month as you do in two
of your nobblers.”
The Italian grunted and poured out more
into his glass. Then he looked at the
whisky in the glass and in the bottle.
“Too much, too little!” he said. “Ah,
too much I take,” and he poured what
was left into his glass and drank it.
“Here’s your cheque, Carducci, £lO.
That’s the last money you will get from me.
Hope you have a good shop in Sydney.
Good-bye!”
The Italian held out his hand to Fel-
spar, but the artist had turned away.
Carducci went to the studio door, where
he halted; turning, he said in a provocative
voice: “Au revoir, Mistere Felspar.” Then
he went down the stairs, fingering the certi-
ficate of death of Lisette Delas Felspar and
humming “Funiculi! Funicula'”
“Damned old rogue!” exclaimed Felspar.
Chapter VIII.
A few months after Betty had gone tc
live with the Clintons Mrs. Calcroft came
from Mildura
on one of hei
visits to them,
and one even-
ing Felspar was
invited to have
dinner with the
family. Whe-
th e r or not
Felspar sus-
pected that he
was on parade
before the
searching eyes
of Betty-’s
mother, he con-
trived to be
notice ably
agreeable t o
her. During the
evening Mrs.
Calcroft related
some of the
news that had
been stirring Mildura. Gerald Deacon's
uncle in England had died a few months
before, and the young man had benefited
to the extent of about £5OOO. Part of the
legacy consisted of shares in Melbourne
banks.
Mr. Clinton explained what that would
mean—an exemplification of the will and
registering it in the Master in Equity’s
office in Melbourne.
Gerald had gone to England, Mrs. Cal-
croft went on to say; and just before the
date fixed for his departure his father had
died, rather suddenly. However, Gerald
had apparently recovered from the shock
this had given him; in a letter to Jack
Carew he told of the wonderful time he
was having with his relations in Kent, He
had done a little hunting, and had seen some
rattling good cross-country riding. He had
also been to a few race meetings, but thought
(Continued on Page 55.)


FULLY FASHIONED


For Any Travel
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
i I-.'
The accredited Agents of all Steam
Ship Lines. Their expert guidance and
special facilities cost you nothing.
TO EUROPE 1930
Apply now for accommodation, as
berthing plans for all steamers are open.
WINTER TOURS
To Queensland, Bali, Java, Siam,
Japan, Hawaii, Malaya, Sumatra, Indo-
China (Saigon, Pnom-Penh, Angkor).
STEAMER EXCURSIONS
Cairns, South Sea Islands, Fiji, Tahiti,
Honolulu, Ceylon, Java, Japan and
Manila, etc.
COOKS’ TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES
Are the safest and most convenient
means of carrying funds.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street,
ADELAIDE:
49 Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).
We Invite “Bulletin” Readers
iOf
r
y
TO INSPECT
DANKS’ EXHIBIT
Royal Agricultural Show
OF
«<
Billabong Windmills
Pumps & Troughing
Some special pumps for extra high lifts
will be shown in action. See also our new
colored Sanitaryware, Hot Water Boilers
and Interior Fittings for the Home.
JOHN DANKS & SON PTY. LTD.
MACHINERY AVENUE, SHOWGROUND
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO
CHRONIC BACKACHE
KIDNEY TROUBLE IS THE CAUSE OF YOUR PAIN!
THIS FAMOUS 40-YEAR-OLD REMEDY HAS BROUGHT HEALTH TO THOUSANDS
IT WILL SURELY BENEFIT YOU
Short, sharp stabbing pains in the back when you rise
from bed, real torture to straighten the body after
stooping, these are sure signs of dangerous kidney trouble.
Poisons and harmful bacteria are being stored up in the
blood, which are causing a state of inflammation in the
muscles and joints—that is why you have pain.
If you are tortured by Lumbago, Sciatica or the dreadful scourge
of Rheumatism, it is no use rubbing your body with ointments when
the trouble is in your blood. Until you prompt the kidneys to
filter out the pain-giv-ing poisons, you cannot hope to be rid of
body and nerve-wracking pain. The quickest, surest means of
banishing chronic Backache, Lumbago, Sciatica or Rheumatic
pains is a short course with the world-famous 40-year-old remedy,
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills.
This is the evidence of not one but thousands of those who owe
health, vitality and strength to this preparation, which sells by
the millions of bottles throughout the world.
Many once bed-ridden for months, many
who say life has been one long
misery of pain and suffering
have banished that
misery for good—
thanks to De
Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills.
They cost so little
yet work such
wonders.
U->
<3'’
53
#
%
erp
nr
<o^
Ml
&
g>;#
Sufferers from the chronic, crippling pain of Sciatica, Lumbago
or Rheumatism, the days when you had to spend hard-earned
money experimenting with ointments, plasters and potions you
“hoped” would help you are past. There is no need to sit in
dreadful pain “wondering” if your body-torturing, brain-racking
trouble can be banished. There is no need to waste money on
unknown preparations.
We are convinced that with the genuine remedy, De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills, taken regularly, your suffering will quickly
end. For 40 years De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills have been
invaluable for all forms of deep-seated Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Uric Acid, Kidney Trouble and Bladder Weakness.
Because of their enormous popularity, De Witt s Pills have been
imitated. For your own sake—that is if you wish to get back
health quickly and surely—definitely refuse such substitutes.
If you are troubled with Backache, Lumbago, Sciatica,
Rheumatism, go to your chemist now and get a 3/6 bottle
or 6/6 size (the large, full month’s treatment) and end
your trouble for good. In 24 hours from the very first
dose of “De Witt’s” you will see and know they are doing
you good. Persevere, your pain will be banished and
splendid health, vigor and vitality restored.
L
M II
tl rii
I if./*
j*
pe
KIDNEY
& BLADDER
PILLS
THE REMEDY WITH THE DEFINITE GUARANTEE.


Your radio pleasure
depends on the speaker
M agnavox Dynamic Speakers are made primarily
to provide realism in music and speech, yet vol-
ume is available from a low whisper to far in
excess of any home requirements, all without dis-
tortion. The Belvedere is a beautiful piece of
furniture to add charm to your home*
A.C. Operation £l4/10/-
D.C. or A Battery Operation . . . . £ll/10/-
LET US DEMONSTRATE THROUGH
YOUR NEAREST RADIO DEALER.
Improve an Old Set —Perfect the new by using a
MAGNAVCX
DYNAMIC XPEAKEE
Australian Patent
No. 7225.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
HAS ACCEPTED
®lte Register
NEWS PICTORIAL
with the utmost enthusiasm.
ALL THE NEWS!
ALL THE PICTURES!
The State’s First Morning
Pictorial.
Largely increased Sales
already assured.
Arrange Contracts at
present rates.
HEAD OFFICE: REGISTER NEWS-
PAPERS, LIMITED, Grenfell Street,
Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative: Eric N. Birks,
Sydney. Tel. X 5187.
Melbourne Representative: G. N.
Bednall, “Argus” Building, Mel-
bourne. Tel. F 4502.
Is
%
ASTHMA
ASTHMA
No matter how severe your
ASTHMA, CATARRH, COLD
IN THE HEAD, BRONCHITIS,
etc. Potter’s Asthma Powder
brings immediate and soothing
relief.
Of all Medicine Vendors 2/6 per Tin.
POTTER & CLARKE. LTD..
Artillery Lane, London, England
For outdoors, use Potter's Smoking
Mixture and Cigarettes
WINCHESTER
TRADE MARK
A
©
WINCHESTER FLASHLIGHTS
Efficient —Dependable
Instant light when you
need it always at your
command. The flashlight
of convenience for every
emergency of the dark.
Always use Winchester
brilliant long life bat-
teries in your flashlight.
There’s a Winchester flashlight of highest quality to meet any
purpose for which you may require a handy, dependable light*
For sale by dealers everywhere
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS COMPANY
10-28 New Haven, Conn., U. S. A.
Pen and Picture
Shadow Shows
In the days of
our youth he
was known as
Dead wood Dick,
and he appeared
in cold print.
To-day he is
called Ken May-
nard, and he
turns up in “The Glorious Trail” (First
at.) and the photographed flesh. Ken
is never at a loss. He can ride like a
centaur, climb trees like a squirrel and
lasso a pinhead, if a pinhead is required
to be lassoed. One of his most surprising
feats in this picture is to tap an interrupted
telegraph line by means of a key and with-
out a battery or earth. He gets through, too,
without a hitch, and there is the usual race
between a regiment of Uncle Sam’s cavalry
and time to rescue a beleaguered telegraph-
construction camp and the heroine from Red
Indians, so that Ken can receive the reward
of his virtue and agility by marrying the
prettiest girl about the place. There are
terrific casualties among the Indians and
the whites to make possible that final close-
up of a kiss. For sheer physical exuberance
these celluloid penny dreadfuls are hard to
beat. They are among those products of
Hollywood which this column finds it easiest
to watch.
“The Woman from Moscow” (Paramount)
has a plot and some good acting and ex-
cellent photography, but it is all as futile
as chasing fish-hawks on horseback. Pola
Negri, as the Princess Fedora, goes from
the typical movie Russia to the ditto, though
more convincing, Paris on the track of one
Loris Ipanoff, suspected of having murdered
POLA NEGRI.
the chap to
whom she had
been betrothed
since chi ld-
li o o d. She
finds him and
falls in love
with him be-
fore she dis-
co vc r s his.
identity. Fol-
lows a conflict
as to whether
her oath to
have his scalp
or her desire
to have him
for h i m s eT f
alone and in-
tact shall win.
She protects
him from de-
signing fellow-
count ryme n
who had ac-
companied her
on oath to get
him, and the
father of the murdered man back in Russia
sends the mother of Loris to Siberia. This
rather annoys Loris, and when Fedora telH
him that she had been merely playing a game
with him, he dashes out into the rain. She
follows and clings to his arm for several
blocks, but he is in a violent pet, and she
is spurned. She returns and takes a dose of
poison, and he, relenting, comes back in
time for her to die in his arms. The End.
Every husband is possibly a fool after the
act, but not many would admit themselves
the sort of ass that Conrad Nagel portrays
in ‘‘Red Wine” (Fox). Visited by a friend
who rises the slogan “You can only be young
once,” and accompanies it with an invitation
to a night-club party, Conrad’s husband
changes in a few seconds to a lady-chaser.
He rigs himself out in the garb of a lounge
lizard and then goes home and tells his dear
wife the tale of a sudden business engage-
ment. She swallows it, and he goes to the
club, where, after making himself familiar
to the dancing girls, he collapses under the
influence and is put to bed in a room which
his friends decorate with feminine clothing,
including stockings and the unmentionables.
He awakes, believes that which is so de-
licately suggested, and gets home penitent
on his wedding anniversary. His wife has
booked tables at the same night-club to
celebrate the anniversary, and he accom-
panies her there, to be recognised by all
his friends of the night before. There is
suspicion on the wife’s part; then easy
reconciliation. That sort of wife deserves to
be canonised or something. Good acting by
Nagel and sundry amusing situations and
incidents make the picture better than it
lt is in the pleasant-anaesthetic
entertainment class.
Despite sundry pale references to psycho-
analysis, “Laugh, Clown, Laugh” (M.G.M.)
is as hackneyed in theme and treatment as
the Argus’s annual leader on Good Friday.
The elderly circus clown harbors a secret
passion for the beautiful young premiere
danseuse, when the raffish Italian count,
after ricochetting off several ladies of his
own rank and breeding as well as some
naughty women, comes along and unexpec-
tedly lays a rope of pearls and an honest
proposal of marriage at the p.d.’s feet.
Rather than spoil what looks like a good
business proposition for the girl, the clown
thereupon goes into the empty theatre, places
his self-sacrificing head on the tight wire,
upends his body, equipped with a pair of
rather repulsive imitation feet, and deliber-
ately slides to his death in a reverse position.
Possibly because it has been done so often
before, or more probably because Lon Chaney
overacts fiercely, the buffoon’s demise failed
to cause the salt drops to visit this paper’s
sad heart. On the other hand, it felt genuinely
sorry for Loretta Young as the Jieroine,
because Nils Asther, as the count, never
conveyed the impression, despite protestations
to the contrary, that he would stay a model
husband. The circus thrills are mediocre
when compared with what the Germans
showed us could be done in that remarkable
picture, “Variety.”
“The Cameraman” (Metro-Goldwyn-
Mayer) is a bright half-dozen reels. There
is nothing so solid about it as a plot; it is
just a stringing together of incidents arising
from the attempts of a while-yon-wait photo-
grapher to break into the news-reel busi-
ness, with a mild love affair thrown in to
propitiate those who insist on Cupid’s pres-
ence in everything. The funny man is one
Buster Keaton, who plays in his natural
state, and is a brilliant mummer. One of
the finest pieces of mumming that this
Shadow Showman has seen of late is his
lone-hand game of baseball played on the
arena to which he has gone to get special
photographs of teams that are playing a
hundred miles or so away. It is a compli-
ment to his talent that the movie has only
a sprinkling of sub-titles, and they help him
along by being occasionally funny them-
selves. The lady in the piece is Marcelline
Day.
The Palette
Three art shows opened in Melbourne re-
cently on the same day, and because of the
contrasts they presented they were an in-
teresting trio. Sturgess’s lot at the Fine Arts
was for the most part of the stuff that dreams
are made on. Sturgess is an artist who should
be home by seven in the morning. In the
half lights, when the milkman is beginning
to rattle his cans, he sees things with con-
siderable truth, because tones are then of the
simplest. In the middle of the day, when
Nature becomes as infinitely varied as
woman, he gets lost in a multiplicity of
planes. ITis work, then, is not sufficiently
patterned to be regarded as decoration nor
sufficiently close to actual appearances to
avoid jarring on the eye. When he attempts
figures he is hopelessly at sea. “Sunbathcrs”
shows two women on a beach in an advanced
state of decomposition. But because of “Fog
Phantoms,”. Sturgess can be forgiven his
attempts to be a quasi-realist. It is like a
pleasant chord struck on muted strings.
At the New Gallery is a collection by old
favorites who have been spending their holi-
days in popular resorts. Each has his little
formula which he labors to grow. The
trouble about a formula is that it is in-
herently a rigid thing. Once one has learnt
A’s recipe for painting seas, B’s prescription
for rocks and C’s nostrum for trees, the
gentlemen have little left to convey. Thus
Charles Wheeler’s large canvas, “A Sunny
Strand,” is really a small thing. The formula
he uses is a barren formula and the result
is singularly thin. There is a mild realisation
of light but no depth or quality of tone. Who
doesn’t know nowadays exactly how Blamire
Young would tackle a picture called “Decora-
tive Landscape,” enchanting as the conse-
quences may be? H. B. Harrison and Harold
Herbert, on the other hand, are painters
with exploratory minds. Herbert’s “At Phillip
Island” is a delightful thing—a trifle senti-
mental, perhaps, but full of the variety of
natural life, which is precisely what no
formula ever had. John Longstaff’s portrait
of Theodore Fink has admirably caught the
facetious mask that eminent newspaper pro-
prietor turns upon a foolish world.
In Justus Jorgensen’s show at the
Athenaeum one steps into another sphere.
Jorgensen is an ex-Meldrum student who has
been abroad and who has remained faithful
to other characteristics of his mentor besides
the beard. Here you are in a world that is
sometimes harsh and ugly, sometimes mean-
ingless and often merely dull. But it is also
extraordinarily stimulating, subtle and vari-
ous. Your accomplished realist, being free
from the shackles of any particular formula,
can paint the ungainly contours of an unin-
teresting female and the drabness of a paling
fence ; but he can also render the lovely texture
of exquisite things as no other artist can. Jor-
gensen’s still-life of some Oriental object
plus a vase is deliciously warm; his por-
trait of himself before he grew a beard has
the solidity and lightness of a living thing,
and a splash of sunlight on a lawn is the
same. A big nude has the lack of humor
which appears to be a Meldrum trait. One
hand rests on the stomach in a way to de-
light the ribald, but the figure is realised
with such power and knowledge that it sticks
in the memory when scores of painted nudes
one has seen have vanished from the mind.
The Inky Way
“D.E.”: Good-natured little Tom Ros-
tron Hewart, writer of many Bulletin
pars., will tread the Inky Way no more—
he died in Melbourne the other day. He was
a younger brother of the Lord Chief Justice
of England, who, as Gordon Hewart, was
himself a journalist in other years. The
family belongs to Bury, and Tom’s mobile
face would always light up when you men-
tioned Lancashire. To him Lancashire news-
papers, footballers and cricketers were
always the finest in the world.
“O. Beau”: Father Maurice Lane (“Alas-
tor” of many articles and pars.) is dead in
Queensland. A native of County Kerry, he
became a lover of the bush and of Australian
poetry, as well as that of Burns, on which
he was an authority. His closest friend was
the Rev. Hulton Sams, “the Fighting Par-
son,” who was killed in the war.
From Bernard Cronin :
“Nakhoda” reports (B. 13/3/’29) that represen-
tatives of Australian authors met the Vic. Director
of Education, Mr. M. P. Hansen, and asked that his
department should pay for the works of local writers
that it reprints in its school publication. The state-
ment is made that Mr. Hansen “showed no sympathy
for their claim.” On the contrary, Mr. Hansen
showed every sympathy. He was interviewed by
the treasurer of the Society of Australian Authors
(Mi. A. L. Purse) and myself. He received us
with courtesy, and his attitude throughout was
friendly and sympathetic. He said frankly that while
he could not see eye to eye with authors in the
claim under discussion, he quite understood their
assertion of a principle, and was willing to consider
recommending the Minister to fix a nominal fee
in payment for reprinted work. Careless state-
ments such as “Nakhoda’s” render doubly difficult
the task of Australian authors in an attempt to
establish just principles without endangering present
relations.


9?
<46
TThe ‘ptili/ztf ‘Preference
■-VXSS'S’TS
m
f^fekap
’■*%»? \ '-''■'l?
‘l<
iv;
&
JSS
7
2 i*'' , -fi
, **
IHHJ
;>■■-
,V?/^
Hf ; J
•f- •
M
>
s
m
JV
&org&
m
3
wm
ft
mmmm
mss
*: ■
zm
C&
or
(f
Of
fIIKRS
111
•••■
m
mm
IMH
oc
§1
t&rtr
M
eo
o*
v)C
SO#
Gorge IV
ft
(gold label)


Repairs. ,
“OUR HANDS MAKE GOOD
ARMS.”
Firearms sent C.O.D.
A LONG RANGE ENGLISH
12 G HAMMER SHOTGUN
By Holloway & Naughton; it has 36in.
barrels, both lull choke, chambered for 3in.
cartridges, treble wedgefast erossbolt and side
clips, weight 811 b. Prices: £l3/10/-; special
model, £l4/15/-. Hawks and crows can be
killed at 90 yards. Hammerless model, with
the same specifications, £26/10/-.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
Gunsmith, Importer of High-grade Firearms,
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
1438 Elizabeth Street (near Market
Street), Sydney.
Fishing Tackle to Tackle Fishing.
Welcome the Coming—Speed the Parting Guest with
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
RESCH’S SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
Ask (or Resch’s by Name.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHJLP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
[3
The Finest Gun Dogs
In England
are fed regularly on Ken-L-Ration, the
dog food supreme. Rich in food value.
FREE—Sample Tin sent to any address
in the Commonwealth.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from
W. C. SCHWAB
P. O. Box 1821, Melbourne
Ken-T -Ration
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Sydney had its first glimpse of Strephon
before tne Chipping Norton Stakes at War-
wick Farm on Saturday, and after that race
it voted him one of the best three-year-olds
it has ever seen —certainly the best since
Manfred. He is not so handsome as Man-
fred, but is a powerfully-framed chestnut
who looks just like an old-time stayer. Favor-
ite at 5 to 4 on, he went to the front, and
at the end of a slow six furlongs (Imin.
19sec. it took) had set up a lead of six
lengths. The others had no chance what-
ever of giving him that much start in four
furlongs, and though Limerick (5 to 1) and
Winalot (3 to 1) got fairly close to him on
sufferance he was bounding away again at
the finish, being then a length and a half
ahead of the Maoriland gelding, who ran a
fair race. The colt had galloped the half-
mile in 48sec.
The stewards very properly reprimanded
the other five riders for letting Pike, on Stre-
phon, get so far away from them, but it
made no difference to the result; Strephon
would have won in any circumstances, acci-
dents excepted. Yet, with his penalty, he
carried the same weight as Jocelyn, a four-
year-old, who has won the Metropolitan.
Holdfast is built for speed and not for
stamina, so he will never be a Strephon.
But he gave a brilliant exhibition of gallop-
ing, with 9st. 51b. up, in the Fairfield Handi-
cap, winning on the bit from Cathmar (7
to 2) and Sir Ribble (25 to 1) in lmin.
13Jsee., and he was obviously a bit above
himself —so much so that some of the book-
makers offered 7 to 4, though 5 to 4 was
the price returned. The unbeaten son of
the despised Australian sire Wedge has now
earned £3769 in stake-money.
The Liverpool Handicap would have been
a better race had there been half the num-
ber of starters, 22. As it was, a good many
were in difficulties owing to the crush in
the first furlong, among them being the favor-
ites, Karuma (9 to 2) and Valley (5 to
1), who were finishing well when it was too
late. Margarethal (10 to 1) got a run clear
of the bunch, and with Bartle making good
use of the advantage she won by lengths
from Killarney (15 to 1) and Clear Flight
(12 to 1) in lmin. I3sec. She is very smart
this Valais filly, but the race was of little
value as a Doncaster trial.
When Kidaides (8 to 1) came out for
the Autumn Cup, critics thought he looked
rather mean, but he is no mean galloper.
Percival, riding him very confidently, had
him near the front most of the time, and in
the straight the little fellow from South Aus.
came away, beating Crucis (10 to 1) by a
length and a quarter and Leadight (15 to
1) by another length and a quarter, with
Tressilian; Baverwrack and the Queensland
filly Paddi Eve (a pretty good one) next.
And the clock showed 2min. 2t)Jsec. —record
time for the course, and equal to the Austral-
asian best for a mile and a half. A striking
Sydney Cup trial. Amusement was favor-
ite, and Lord Ivennaquhair and Golden
Music were among the beaten lot.
There was little support for Venetian
Lady (8 to 1) and Staroff (10 to 1), win-
ners of the Farm - Stakes divisions. The
Bulletin’s selection Rosso (12 to 1) com-
pleted a good day for the bookmakers .by
capturing the Cabramatta Handicap, though
Bravado (10 to 1) finished much faster and
nearly caught him.
* * * *
Strephon looks a certainty for the A.J.C.
St. Leger at Randwick on Saturday, but
there is nothing else standing out. The Don-
caster Handicap presents the customary
puzzle. Sion (Sst. lllb.) and Knlloni (Bst.
81b.) are the favorites, and perhaps they are
entitled to their prominence, but neither has
been thrown in. Killarney (Sst. 91b.) is
fancied on the score of his forward running
at Warwick Farm, and he is in first-class
condition. There is an unusual number of
three-year-olds, including Figure (Bst. 41b.),
Gilt Edge (Sst. 31b.), Loquacious (Sst.j,
Gesto (7st. lllb.) and Crowdel (7st. 31b.) ;
and Loquacious and Crowdel are a danger-
ous pair. Among the older lightweights
Ilahashon (7st. 10!b.) and Wedding Eve.
(7st. 91b.) have been galloping well. This
Page likes Karuma (Sst. 41b.), a seasoned
four-year-old, partial to the distance and the
course; and Valley (6st. 71b.), who should
be better suited by a mile than six furlongs.
“A good thing for you fellows I pulled my
colt out of the Sydney Cup,” said Sol Green
AT THE PING PONG PICNIC RACES.
JOCELYN THE JACKEROO (to Clerk of Course ): “Pardon me, sir, did the starter say
‘Go’ or ‘Whoa’?”
entering the ring after Strephon’s dazzling
performance at the Farm. “My oath !” said
one of the bagmen; and the whole profes-
sion agrees. In Strephon’s absence Winalot
(9st. 81b.) is favorite, and another victory
for the chestnut is a possibility, for he is
well up to weight. Kidaides (7st. 51b.) has
an undoubted chance, but there was very
little between him and Octember (7st. 61b.)
in Melbourne, and he doesn’t look so hardy
as the Sydney horse, being only a handful.
The Bulletin will have to pass Lord Iven-
naquhair (7st. 51b.) on his recent running,
but Amusement (7st. 51b.) deserves another
chance, for he is a proved stayer and is very
well. Loquacious (7st. 121 b.) and Oaten-
dale (7st. 10lb.) are among the three-year-
olds engaged, and they are a pair to be
respected. Octember is chosen because his
racing should have improved him, and his
luck ought to change some time. Fancies:—
First Hurdle Race: Grosvenor.
St. Leger: Strephon.
Doncaster: Karuma, 1; Valley. 2; Loqua-
cious, 3.
Autumn Stakes: Winalot.
Sires’ Produce Stakes: Honour.
Highweight Handicap: Rosso; next,
Colored.
Sydney Cup: Octember, 1; Kidaides, 2;
Amusement, 3.
* * *
Melbourne punters got a little of their
own back at the Valley on Saturday, three
favorites and a second favorite catching the
judge’s eye. One of the favorites in question
was Ron Cameron’s consistent but previously
unlucky Sarehedon three-year-old Prince
Don. Five to two for the Moonee Ponds
Handicap, with the Geelong Gold Cup
winner Sea Pilot next in demand at 7 to 2,
Prince Don won comfortably from Sea Pilot
and Impartial (12 to 1). The time was
2min. 37£sec., which is poor. All the same,
Prince Don is a pretty fair stayer, and may
be heard of later in his career.
There was a very close finish in the Cal-
liope Handicap for two-year-olds, a 20-to-l
shot in Star of the East beating Bonython
(7 to 1) by a “short” head. She is a brown
filly by Great Star —Castellane in Joe Hey-
wood’s stable, and is a good sort, judging
by the way she hung on. There was an-
other exciting finish in the Highweight Han-
dicap ; Double Duty (9 to 4) just scraped
home from Hawick (20 to 1) and imported
Dingaan’s Day (9 to 2). The winner is a
chestnut gelding by Two out of Nurse Cavell.
He was ridden an excellent race by Scanlon,
who had scored previously on Prince Don.
* * * *
The Grand National Steeplechase at Ain-
tree, near Liverpool, was won by Mrs. A.
Gemell’s Gregallach, a chestnut gelding by My
Prince, with Easter Hero, by the same sire,
second. English-bred he is owned by an
American, ,1. H. Whitney. R. Everett, rider
of the winner, is an ex-riaval officer who is
described as having ridden in Australia and
South Africa before taking to the game as
a professional. This is his first big win.
The race, about 44 miles, carries £5OOO added
money, but is worth about £lO,OOO to the
winning owner. Gregallach went out at 100
to 1, and carried list. 41b., the minimum
being lOst.
* * * *
“Quien Sabe”: The £20,000 Coffroth Han-
dicap, claimed to be the richest race in the
world, was run at Tia Juana, just south of
the border between Mexico and the U.S.A.,
the other day and won by Golden Prince,
an American-bred horse by Golden Guinea.
Golden Prince equalled the track record,
2min. 2 3/ssec. for the 14 miles, put up by
the British-bred colt Calaris three years ago.
Beauford’s 2min. 3Jsec. is Australia’s best
for the distance; a Maorilander, Winning
Hit, did it in 2min, 3 l-ssec. A pleasant-
Sunday-afternoon entertainment, the race is
always attended by huge crowds from the
States. The greaser has no foolish obsessions
about prohibition, while any kind of a
gamble, from faro to pinochle, can be sup-
plied by the saloons which make up the
town. And there are even more dangerous
excitements.
* * * *
“Swan”: The W.A. Turf Club’s meeting
at Perth in October next will be one of the
features of the Centenary celebrations. The
big event will be the Ceiftenary Handicap
of £2OOO, which will also carry the gold cup
presented by the King. Other events
include a hurdle, a couple of races for the'
youngsters, and the Governor’s Cup.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Billy McAlister, who, before the advent of
La Barba, found a backer against any ban-
tam in the world, scored a convincing win
at Sydney Stadium on Saturday night over
Maorilander Tommy Griffiths by a technical
k.o. in the 10th round. Griffiths gained a
points decision in their first fight, a decision
that is hard to understand from their form
on this occasion. In the early rounds Griffiths
showed pluck and enterprise in carrying the
fight to McAlister, but the latter, using a
deadly right uppercut and cross, had the
lad from across the Tasman in difficulties.
From the sixth it was nearly all McAlister,
and a couple of beautifully-timed rights to
the jaw in the seventh had Griffiths all
but out. The Maorilander was hanging
on the ropes in a helpless condition early
in the tenth, when Joe M allis put an end
to the business. Weights were: Griffiths,
Bst. tijlb.; McAlister, Bst. 61b.
The Ins and Outs
“Gate”: Though it will be some time be-
fore final accounts can be cast, the tour ot
the Englishmen has brought in a pot of
money. In the Tests alone. £73,000 was
taken, which shows that the cricket patron is
a good sort of bloke who doefArt ask much
for his money. The total expenses of the tour
will not exceed £20,000, so that there will be
a nice cut coming to the M.C.C. and the
Board of Control, which last will divvy most
of its share among the State associations. As
all the State matches realised big profits,
the wolf is not likely tc howl round Aus-
tralia’s cricket premises for many a day to
come.
* * * *
“Statist”: Figure fiends may find some joy
in the fact that though Australia has won 4*
of the 114 Tests, as against 40 by England,
the Old Dart has scored on aggregates and
averages. England has collected 37,714 runs
for 1907 wickets, an average of 27.64. Aus-
tralia’s tally is 51,360 for 1987 wickets, an
average of 23.94.
* * * *
“Amateur Tro.”: The N.S.W. cricket
authorities have decided to engage a profes-
sional coach, and an argument has ensued
as to whether an Australian or an English-
man be employed. While most would cast
a verdict in favor of the home-grown . pro-
duct, it must, be admitted that cricket
coaching as a lifelong profession is unknown
in Australia. Like other professions, it is
one demanding long practice and experience,
quite apart from the ability to play cricket.
The English professional from boyhood looks
forward to an engagement as coach as one
of the mainstays of his career, and even the
men who reach the top of the tree_ as
piayers turn for the most part to coaching
for the great schools and universities, as
well as the innumerable private clubs which
employ a professional when their best
cricket days are over. Jfis far as expellence
in a specialised branch of cricket goes, the
Englishman excels his Australian confrere.
* * * *
“The McHaggis”: Though one who usu-
ally avoids intruding on the fatuity of crie-
ket, my national pride has been aroused, by
statements as to cricketers of Scottish birth
who have played in Test matches (B.
27/2/’29). It is asserted that the London-
dwelling Gregor Macgregor \vas the only in-
stance of a Scot taking part in these games,
which to my mind says a lot for the prover-
bial sanity of the race. But there is an-
other and a recent example-—the youthful
Archie Jackson, whom N.S.W., with charac-
teristic hide, has been claiming as a native
son. The braw birkie was born in bonnic
Scotland, for all Balmain’s clamajaffery.
*'* * *
“The Gaffer” : The press statement that a
single-wicket match was ft> be played be-
tween a couple of preeminent cricketers dur-
ing a Sydney seaside carnival woke up old
memories. I don’t suppose that one cncketei
of to-day in a thousand knows anything
about this phase of the game, which was usu-
ally played to an accompaniment of stakes
anil betting. Single-wicket matches were
very popular in North Queensland 30 years
or so ago. the writer took part in a game
in which Sam Fullerton and the immortal
“Stepper” Davis (both now laying ’em on the
Elysian fields) were the backers —we played
three a side from Charters Towers and
Townsville respectively, “Stepper’s” team
lost, and the comment he made on its cricket-
ing ability as he parted up his £5O stake
haunts me still.
(Continued on page Jjl.)
“Swing the Boot” The N.S.W. Rugby
League is to be congratulated on having
acquired an ex-Rugby Union player, H.
Flegg, as its new president. He was a fair
footballer in his time, having represented
Metropolis against Queensland in 1902. Tim
League lias benefited ranch by the Rugby
Union, from which it acquired nearly all the
players who have helped to bring it into the
limelight and the gate-money. This is, how-
ever. the first time that an ex-member of the
amateur code has risen high in the councils
of the professional body.
* * * *
The centenary of the Oxford-Cambridge
boatrace on the Thames drew a vast crowd
on Saturday. Cambridge won by seven
lengths; the time was 19min. 23sec.
for the course of just under four
miles. In this last race, the 81st
of the series, Cambridge has drawn level
with Oxford, which won the first in 1829,
each side having now scored 40 wins, with a
■ dead heat in 1877. This is the sixth suc-
cessive win for the Light Blues, Oxford
• having scored only once (1923) since the war.
THE GREAT UNDERPAID.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“In view of the huge takings at the Tests, it is
urged that the Australian players should receive a
bonus of £5O apiece in addition to their £3O a
match.”
A game? A pastime? Nay, you must be
daft.
Although it may have ranked as such of
yore,
’Tis solid yacker now, hard, grinding graft,
A fact you parsimonious narks ignore.
SloVv crawls the clock and slower limps
the score
Till runs of minutes may not keep abreast.
’Struth, but it makes a follow sort of sore,
A miserable thirty for a Test!
What though our fame across the world they
waft.
And our achievements ring from shore to
shore,
Will being lionised and paragraphed
Keep the grim wolf from nosing round
your door?
Blazers and caps must fade and pants get
wore,
None with a battered bat may bang his best.
Fair-minded folk such skimping must
deplore
As frames a fee of thirty for a Test.
Quickness of eye and hand, and subtle craft,
Dogged endurahee sUeh as ne’er before
Was asked —therewith we must be stayed
and staffed.
The blaze of summer suns we face, the
roar
, Of barrackers, rib-roasting balls that floor ;
Railwards we race on many a hopeless quest
Exuding honest sweat from every pore.
A paltry pittance, thirty, for a Test.
Dig up a pourhoire from the shining store
Our prowess from the public helped to
wrest;
With matches running to a week or more
Thirty is scurvy payment for a Test.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


<;:■ •>
it
Ml
THEY’RE WAITING
FOR YOU!
Unrivalled Displays of
GUNS
from the world’s
leading makers at
MICK SIMMONS
No. 3—Hollis’ “The Reliable” D.8.8.L.
Gun, 12G., top lever, bar action, 32in.
steel barrels, both choke, rebounding
locks, cross bolt, snap fore-end, J-pistol
grip, walnut stock, chambered for 2Jin.
cartridges, guaranteed for all smokeless
powder; weight, about 7£lb. £l3/10/-
Cartiage Paid.
No. 6—Hollis’ “The Reliable” D.8.8.L.
Hammerless Gun, 12G., top lever, 32in.
“Siemen’s” steel barrels, both choke, side
action, A. and D. action, automatic safety
bolt, Deeley edge, patent fore-end, Greener
cross bolt, neatly engraved, chambered
for cartridges; guaranteed for all
smokeless powders; weight, about
7 Jib £2l
Carriage Paid.
No. 9—Cashmore D.8.8.L. Gun, 12G.,
solid bar action, 32in. steel barrels, left
choke, extension rib, cross bolt, D. and E.
fore-end pistol, walnut stock;
weight, about 71b £l2/17/6
Carriage Paid.
No. 7—Hollis’ D.8.8.L. Special Duck Gun,
12G., 34in. steel barrels, both choke,
Greener cross bolt, specially built for
heavy charges and long-distance shooting;
similar in appearance to the
No. 3; weight, about BJib. £l5/15/-
Carriage Paid.
No. I—Greener D.8.8.L. Hammerless Gur.,
12G., treble wedge, fast action, rebound-
ing “Siemen’s” special steel barrels, both
full choke; shooting guaran-
teed; 32in. barrels £22/10/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 21.—Holloway’s D.8.8.L. Gun, 12G.,
30in. steel barrels, left choke, top lever,
walnut stock, pistol grip, scroll engraved,
bar locks, cross bolt, nitro-
proof; weight, about 71b. . . £lO/10/-
Carriage Paid.
Write for a copy of the comprehensive
Shooting Catalogue arid Guide. Post free.
HICK SIMMONS Ltd.
Headquarters: 720 Haymarket,
Sydney.
“Australia’s Largest Distributors of
Firearms.”
Your Favorite Cartridge Reloaded at Small Cost
WITH IDEAL RELOADING TOOLS,
Ideal Shell Expanding Cham-
ber allows bullet to be
seated friction-tight. Price
12/6 each.
Ideal Muzzle Resizer brings
mouth of case back to about
original size. Price 6/6 ea.
Ideal Tool No. 4. Popular Tool, complete
in itself for C.F. Cartridges, such as
.25-20,:.32-20, .38-40, .38 S. &W. Special
.44-40. Casts standard bullet. Without
double adjust. Chamber. Price 32/6 ea.
For prompt reply, send your inquiries for
literature to our exclusive representatives:
Enjoy frequent shooting with reloaded
ammunition. Accuracy equal to factory-
loaded ammunition. Best results from
Ideal Tools, standard with reloaders
for 35 years. Send for new Ideal Hand-
book of instructions, tables and com-
plete description of the line. Mailed
on receipt of 2/6 each, or
Free Folder.
IDEAL NS4
No. 6 Tool. For Reloading C.F. Cart-
ridges such as .25-35, .32-40, .30-30,
.38-55, etc. With double adj. chamber.
Casts standard bullet. Price 37/6 ea.
Ideal No. 5 Powder
Measure. Measures all
powders accurately.
Price £2/5/- each.
ASHER SMITH, LTD., P.O. Box 966GG, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE LYMAN GUN SIGHT CORP. West Street, Middlefield, Conn. U.S.A.
BEENIE’S IMPROVED PATENT RUG.
IT ALWAYS WAS A GOOD RUG,
BUT NOW IT’S A BETTER ONE.
In the new Patent the strapping has been put
underneath where it cannot catch in scrub, etc.,
flank straps keep it in position better, and a leather
fillet strap instead of rope is provided.
“A” QUALITY made of Thomson’s super white
flax canvas lined with all-wool check.
sft. 6in., 51/6; sft. 9in., 53/6; 6ft., 55/-
Arld 2/9 per Rug for Freight.
We have other styles, including hind-leg strap Rugs,
belly webbing Rugs as low as 20/6 in sft. 6in. size.
WRITE FOR FULL LIST WITH SAMPLES OF CANVAS.
STEWART FLEXIBLE SHAFT CLIPPER
THE WELL KNOWN MACHINE THAT DOES BIG WORK.
57/6 Complete. - - Freight extra.
It weighs 321 b. packed, so you can calculate freight.
SPARE COMBS, 7/6; CUTTERS, 5/- (Post, 6d.). OLD COMBS AND
CUTTERS SHARPENED, 3/- pair (Post, 6d.).
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON, LTD., 595 ceo^&nel
SS>>
Cross-
Jor Mellow Mild
ness
m
Select Club Reil Cigars, because they are
made of rich Havana leaf, fragrant and
flavorsome .... and delightfully mild. Club
Reil Cigars are obtainable at hotels and
tobacconists’ or at address below.
ORDER BY POST.
Phib%ilfi
CRAIG &AITKEN-654 GEORGE ST, SYDNEY
DISTRIBUTORS FOR CLUB REIL CIGAR FACTORY.
Famous for Nearly 60 Years and the Standard
of Comparison Throughout the World.
0*
rP
LS
MOTOR
PAINT
Can be dry-
cleaned or washed
and dried with a
chamois and will
look bright and
attractive without
the necessity of
polishing.
EASY TO
APPLY, ANY-
ONE CAN USE
IT.
'DOES NOT REQUIRE POLISHING. WILL NOT SPOT,
FADE OR RUB OFF.
Ripolin is also the best paint for all house decoration, baths, bath-rooms,
hospitals, furniture, garden seats, boats, cycles, etc.
Wherever a Durable and Lasting Paint is Required, Use Ripolin.
White and 70 shades procurable from all stores in sealed tins.
WRITE FOR COLOR CARD, BOOKLET AND FULL PARTICULARS TO:
L. A. CORMACK
(Factory Rep.),, 4 Underwood Street
(off 35 Pitt Street), SYDNF.Y.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
BRISBANE: S. J. Squires & Co. MELBOURNE: Standard Agencies Pty., Ltd.
ADELAIDE : Clarkson, Ltd. LAUNCESTON: French Bros.
Legal Notices.
T° ANY CHILD OR CHILDREN OF
1 OWEN CONNOR OF DUBLIN. IRE-
LAND, SHOEMAKER, A BROTHER
OF SARAH JANE WHITE DE-
CEASED, AND TO ALL PERSONS
CLAIMING BY THROUGH OR
UNDER THEM OR ANY OF THEM.
PURSUANT to an Order made on Bth
February 1929 by a Judge of the Supreme
Court of New Zealand you are hereby called
upon to send in to the undersigned on or
before Ist September 1929 your claims to
the estate of SARAH JANE WHITE de-
ceased who died on or about the 6th July
188 G failing which the said estate will be dis
tributed amongst those entitled thereto dis-
regarding your claims.
DATED at Wellington this 9th day of
February, 19i,.».
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
TO WILLIAM SCOTT, BROTHER OF
1 HENRY SCOTT DECEASED. AND
TO ALL PERSONS CLAIMING BY
THROUGH OR UNDER THE SAID
WILLIAM SCOTT.
PURSUANT to an Order made on Ist
February 1929 by a Judge of the Supreme
Court of New Zealand you are hereby called
upon to send in to the undersigned on or
before Ist June 1929 your claims to the
estate of HENRY SCOTT deceased who
died on or about the Ist March 1928 failing
which the said estate will be distributed
amongst those entitled thereto disregarding
your claims.
DATED at Wellington this Bth day of
February 192 u.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
New Zealand.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 TASMANIA.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO FRANCIS GEORGE BRADLEY late
of Melbourne in Victoria and Hobart
in Tasmania but last heard of as being
in Melbourne in Victoria.
WHEREAS EMILY FLORENCE
BRADLEY ’of Branxholm in Tasmania
claiming to have been lawfully married to
you has filed her Petition for Dissolution
of the said Marriage in the Supreme Court
of Tasmania on the ground of desertion
for two years and upwards NOW you are
hereby notified that unless within thirty
days from the date of publication hereof
you enter an Appearance in this Court at
its Registry Macquarie Street Hobart in
Tasmania the said Court will proceed to
hear the said charges and to pronounce sen-
tence your absence notwithstanding.
DATED at Hobart aforesaid this twenty-
ninth day of November One thousand nine
hundred arid twenty-eight.
(Sgd.) C. S. SIMMONS,
Clerk of the Supreme Court of Tasmania.
CLARKE, HUTCHINS & GEE,
59 Brisbane Street, Launceston,
Tasmania.
Proctors for the Petitioner.
Probate.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 NEW SOUTH WALES.
Probate Jurisdiction.
IN THE WILL OF JOSEPHUS BRAM-
FITT late of No. 26 Sir John Young
Crescent Lower Domain Sydney in the
State of New South Wales Station Hand
Deceased.
PURSUANT to the Wills Probate and
Administration Act 1898 and the Testators
Family Maintenance and Guardianship of
Infants Act 1916 and the Trustee Act 1925
NOTICE is hereby given that every credi-
tor or other person having any claim against
the Estate of the above-named deceased
who died on or about the thirtieth day of
January 1929 and Probate of whose Will
was on the twenty-seventh day of February
1929 granted by the Supreme Court of New
South Wales to FRANK WADE the Execu-
tor named in the said Will is hereby required
to send particulars in writing of such claim
to the said FRANK WADE or to the under-
signed the Proctor for the Executor mentioned
on or before the twenty-eighth day of July
1929 at expiration of which time the said
Executor will proceed to distribute the assets
of the said deceased amongst the persons
entitled thereto, having regard only to the
claims of which they then have notice And
Notice is hereby further given that the said
Executor will not be liable for the Assets
or any part thereof so distributed to any
person of whose claim they shall not have
had notice at the time of such distribution.
DATED this fourteenth day of March.
1929.
KERSHAW, MATTHEWS, LANE AND
GLASGOW,
Proctor for the said Executor,
34 Martin Place, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
D E H. E. MURRAY, Deceased. —Will any-
A one knowing the whereabouts of WIL-
LIAM HENRY MURRAY (son of William
Henry Murray and Harriet Emily Taylor)
please communicate with the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Hobart, Tasmania?
A NY person who can give particulars of
the death of ROBERT GARDEN (or
GARDNER) WHITEHALL, at one time a
railway laborer, who died in Queensland
about 1925, aged about 50 or 60 years, is
asked to communicate with the UNIO.N
TRUSTEE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA,
LTD., 2 O’Connell Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
D E M. KERRISON, Deceased.—Will
E\ any person knowing the whereabouts
of ERNEST WINZENBERG, formerly of
Hobart, in Tasmania, or his son NORMAN,
communicate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE.
Hobart?
TOHN. ARTHUR BELL, son of George
J Daniel Bell, Deceased, and Maria Eliza-
beth Bell, Deceased, is requested to com-
municate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Box 7a, G.P.0., Sydney.


Iff*
atnaxialit
1
Showing just one ot
our “Ambassador’'
brand of Shoes for j
Men. A smart, full-
fitting Shoe of attrac-
ti v e appearance.
Made in Tan Calf,
Plum Calf and
Black Box Calf.
All one price, 26/6
fsd
ďf
“AMBASSADOR”
SHOES
FOR MEN WHO CARE.
Write for Catalog X
TWO MENS SHOE STORES
135 KING STREET, & 316 GEORGE STREET
TO INVESTORS
WITH LARGE OR SMALL AMOUNTS
The Merron Estate Ltd.
FINANCIERS
Established, 1917 Authorised Capital, £50,000
The Merron Estate, Ltd., will Accept Moneys for Deposit from £5
upwards at the following rates of interest, payable quarterly:
3to 6 MONTHS . . . . 7 PER CENT.
12 MONTHS 10 PER CENT.
24 MONTHS PER CENT,
APPLY THE SECRETARY
THE MERRON ESTATE L™.
LONDON BANK CHAMBERS, 18 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
The Ins and Outs
The Englishmen wound up their tour with
a match at Perth against a team composed
of Westralians and four players from South
Aus. and Victoria. As has happened more
than once on the tour, they treated the game
in a picnic spirit, and when White put on
Duckworth to bowl in the home side’s second
innings the crowd naturally objected. The
Australians’ first innings was notable for a
sound, if slow, knock by Arthur Richardson
for 101 11.0. Veteran Harold Rowe, who
made a century against A. O. Jones’s team,
was run out for 73, and the innings totalled
310, Tate, White and Larwood bagging a
couple of wickets each. England got no
further than 241, Hammond’s 80 being the
best effort; Grimmett took 4 for 04, and
Evans, a Westralian bowler, 3 for 38. The
combined side lost 3 for IS6 in their second
essay. Ryder laid on the wood for 81 n. 0.,
and Horrocks, a very promising Perth man,
who had made 31 in his first try, completed
a useful double with a 7G, made at the rate
of nearly a run a minute.
* * * *
“W. G. Snort” : The tour of the English
XI, now ended, lias had some unpleasant
features. These are in no way attributable
to the visitors, who have been sportsmen in
every sense of the word. They are largely
the outcome of the wave of sensationalism
which has swamped a section of the Aus-
tralian press and developed the urge to
sell more papers than the reptile contem-
porary at all costs, including that of the
truth. This, of course, is reflected in the
people who read these journals, with the
result that senseless ill-feeling is generated
which finds expression too often in obscene
barracking. Anyone who has been on the
famous Hill at Sydney Cricket Ground
during the games against the Englishmen
will admit that, along with the old spirit
of chaff, there has been an ugly spirit of
antagonism to a sporting opponent, and
that rough witticism has been supplanted
often by language which, if uttered in the
street, would earn the speaker instant arrest.
In Melbourne, matters are no better, and
it would seem that police control of the
modern barracker will be a necessity of the
future. There is no reason why a blackguard
should be permitted to indulge his instincts
at a Test match when the same behavior
at a pony course, even, would get him run in.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: The Fifth Funeral in- Mel-
bourne was the deadliest advertisement big
cricket has ever given itself. I wandered in
on seven or eight occasions between the
first Friday and the final Saturday. If there
wasn’t a luncheon or tea interval on w T hen
I arrived it occurred shortly afterwards.
After the exhausted Titans had sufficiently
nourished their fainting frames, the great
struggle, as the dailies euphemistically de-
scribed it, would be resumed. That is to
say, 11 fieldsmen, two umpires and two bats-
men would percolate on to the field and
distribute themselves with maddening de-
liberation. Then a batsman would take block,
a bowler would grasp the ball and things
would really look like business. But no! Some
miscreant had moved the sight board and
that had to be adjusted, by three-tenths of an
inch, apparently. Then a ball, a slow one,
would really be delivered and hit a perfectly
robust person on the body. With sighs of
relief the field would gather round 'the
stricken fellow and massage him or suggest
an operation or something. Once or twice
the game reallv did threaten to get lively,
but that was the time usually selected by a
languid gentleman in a blazer to drift into
the argument with a tray of soft drinks. In
my young days, at least one batsman usually
gave a good display by lifting the loose ones
to the boundary. Nowadays the loose ones
are treated with the same caution as the
others lest they contain some hidden devilry.
How demoralising played-out matches are on
the performers was shown in the English-
men’s second innings.- They really tried to
hit out then, but they had lost the art or
never acquired it, or something, and under the
circumstances it was just sheer recklessness
—their wickets tumbled. Another example
was when the Australians, with five wickets
in hand, needed three or four to win. It took
them three overs to do it. Over 200,000
people suffered the long-drawn-out infliction,
and for the fragment of play on the last day
the M.C.O. charged half the usual admission.
They should have given it away.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The 94th Test fell on the 52nd
anniversary of the first one, also played on
the M.C.G. ground. In the latter the four
innings were completed in less than three
days and yielded 753 runs. The latest took
eight days and yielded 1554.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: One of Sydney's enter-
prising journals capped a season’s mud-sling-
ing at the English cricketers by stating that
Jardine had announced publicly—no doubt
at Government House, though this is not
stated —that he felt inclined to spit on the
Melbourne barrackers, or had done so, or
something—it was shaky as to these details.
The revelation was postponed until Jardine
had taken ship for India, and it was the
enterprise of a hated rival which gave the
absent Oxonian a chance to defend himself.
In reply to a radio sent him. Jardine replied
that the story was a preposterous concoction,
and every sane-minded citizen will not hesi-
tate for a moment to believe him, with the
rider that the confutation was not in the
least necessary.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: I am afraid, in spite
of all my efforts to the contrary, that tennis
administration in N.S.W. is being dragged
down to the level of State politics. Of
course, everyone concerned know T s that last
year the dear girls who add so much interest
to tennis —witness the snapshots in the Daily
What Oh and its contemporaries—captured
a couple of seats on the Council. Their two
councillors have made things so lively and
have shown such a tendency to wake up their
fossil confr&res that an order has gone out
that such a thing must never be again. At
time of writing, the issue is uncertain, but
I understand that those of the male coun-
cillors who cannot run the risk of being
brought to the meeting in Bath chairs are
being beset by urgers for their signatures to
a proxy.
* * * *
“Dusseldorf”: The Australian tennis
players who. at Wimbledon and elsewhere,
have met Friiulein Aussem, the German girl
who is considered the outstanding woman
player of her fatherland, will hear with re-
gret that she is threatened with blindness.
A strong and forceful player, she has been
rated among the first ten of European
women for some time, and this year climbed
to the distinction of inclusion in the world’s
best ton, in which Australia’s Daphne Ak-
liurst ranks high. Recently, at Cannes, she
A PRODIGAL RETURNED.
JENKINS: “My goodness, if that isn’t old Macintosh!
I haven’t seen him on the links for 15 years.
MISS JENKINS : “He must have found that ball he
lost then.”
lost the sight of one eye. Her medical
advisers have prohibited pretty well every-
thing that makes life worth living, and the
little German has agreed save on one point —
she Won’t give up tennis.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: On this side of the
world we don’t hear much of the move-
ments of the tennis luminaries in other
spheres. So it was rather a shock to read that
Norton, the young South African amateur that
was, had won a professional tournament at
Palm Beach (U.S.A.) by beating Vincent
Richards, the famous partner of Tilden in
Davis Cup matches. Norton played as an
amateur at Wimbledon last year, and made
a good showing. Nevertheless, no one
would have given him a hope against the
Vincent Richards of three or four years
ago. Dither the American crack has slipped
badly since he threw the pseudo-amateurism
of tennis to the winds —his failure to stand
up to the Czecho-Slav, Kozeluh, suggests that
—or else Norton has jumped in a single year
into the No. 1 class.
Footbrawl
“H. Hardupp”: Probably with the best of
intentions but with the worst of tact, a
speaker at a recent meeting of a Victorian
football club suggested that a funeral fund
for umpires and other club officials should
be instituted. Apparently a strenuous
season is expected. The suggestion reminds
me of an incident at the conclusion of the
last football match I saw in Melbourne.
There was a swirl in the crowd, and a
decent-looking citizen near me exclaimed,
“There’s some poor man been done in by a
mob; I must get into this.” He dashed into
the crowd, but shortly returned. “It’s 0.k.,’
he. said ; “it’s the flamin’ umpire.”
* * * *
“Glenelg” : South Australia, like the other
States, was much perturbed last season at
the increasing tendency to rough and dirty
play among its football teams in the premier-
ship competition. The other day, T. S.
ilill, of Norwood, tabled a motion providing
that any player convicted as the aggressor in
three offences be disqualified for life. Tins
matter has been hung up for the present,
but reforms in this direction are badly
needed. The Australian Rules authorities
in every State would doi well to fall in with
the Rugby and Soccer laws empowering a
referee to send an offender off the field forth-
with. At present all that can be done is to
report the offender, who later comes before the
executive to be dealt with. He goes on play-
ing in the match after offending, and this
gives his opponents opportunities for re-
taliation while the blood is hot,. with the
natural consequence of an extension of the
original trouble.
* * * *
“Birkenhead Park”: The British Rugby
international crown was decided last, week
when Scotland beat England at Edinburgh,
before 75,000 spectators, by 4 tries to 2—or
12 points to 6. This brings the
Calcutta Cup back to Scotland,
which has suffered only one de-
feat this season, and that at the
hands of Wales, which England
beat. Wales drew with Ireland,
which beat England, so the form
seems to have been a bit in and
out.
sjc * *
‘•S ta n d O ft"’: The annual
balance-sheet of the N.S.W.
Rugby Union shows that the
Union spent over £2OOO since last
year in re-establishing the game
in the country and other States.
This has reduced the cash balance
to a little over a thousand pounds,
but the annual meeting was quite
satisfied that the money had been
well spent, including as it did
£BOO on a new scheme of player
insurance. The Maoriland tour
resulted in a loss of £126, but
there is a sum of £240 yet to
come from beyond the Tasman
which could not be included in
the balance-sheet. With the All
Blacks coining over this season
and the Sydney Cricket Ground
available for the big games, the
Union coffers are pretty sure of
a 'satisfactory replenishment, and
the visit of the British team next
year should also, help in this re-
gard. J. W. Breekenridge. the
Waratah breakaway, was elected
lion, treasurer, vice Dr. Warren,
retired.
*
“Old Q.”: As expected, the
Brisbane Rugby League has re-
plied to the Queensland Rugby
League’s repudiation by repudiat-
ing that body in its turn. Both
are forming grade competitions
and will run in opposition to each
other, which should benefit the
adolescent Rugby Union. As the
Brisbane body controls most of
the metropolitan grounds, it
would seem that at present the
drinks are on the State push,
which is trying to jump the metropolitan claim.
Joined to their idols, a section of the Uni-
versity players have decided to continue in
the professional code, in spite of the obvious
disadvantages to themselves. The other
Union clubs are building up well, and many
League players are coming back. Among
them is Colin Hughes, the Queensland repre-
sentative half, who will play with Valley.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Mcßagpipes”: “Divot Digger’s” lament
(B. 13/3/’29) that Australian golfers are
not prepared to dig down deep for the privi-
lege of seeing Walter Hagen in action doesn’t
bring any sadness to this home. It isn’t
that they are too close to forgo the couple
of wads per man per season which “Divot
Digger” suggests would bring about the visit,
but simply that they are not sufficiently in-
terested. The fact is that golf as a spectacle
is about half as inspiring as a Marathon
Test match. Most of those afflicted with
the malady would sooner spend an afternoon
hacking up their local scenery themselves
than watching a four-ball between Hagen.
Jones. Compston and Mitchell.
* * * *
“Q.”: The continued silence of “Colonel
Damurize” suggests he has heard of the
treatment received by lady members (not
"associates”) of the Brighton (Vic.) Golf
Club, and that the shock has proved fatal
to him. In this club, the minx has more
privileges than the man. All women are per-
mitted to play on Saturday afternoons. If
they are unable to take part in women's
matches played on Tuesdays, they may enter
for the men's competitions at the week-ends.
They have as much say in the management
of club affairs as their male friends, having
equal voting rights. They are represented
on what is generally called the men’s com-
mittee—in the case of Brighton this name
has been altered to general committee—and
in addition have their own executive officers
and committee, to which no mere male may
be elected.
* * 4: »
“Divot Digger”: J. 11. Taylor, who ought
to know better, is the latest golfer to father
one of those devices for taking as much as
possible of the exertion out of golf which
have achieved such vogue among modern
players. This is a contraption for teeing the
ball for practice drives. In the rough old
days, a player driving off a dozen balls in
this fashion had to stoop a dozen times at
least, unless he employed a caddie to toe up
for him. The new invention holds a dozen
balls and all that is necessary is to tap a
trigger with the club head after No. 1 is
driven off, and another pill is automatically
teed up. One of these days someone will
come along with a robot to do all the driving
and walking, while the player follows in a
“pram” car. All that will be required of
him will be to do the swearing when his
mechanical player gets into a bunker.
* * * *
“The O’Potheen”: That interesting dis-
sertation on rule 28 of the Buies of Golf
(B. 20/3/’29) omits several important points
on the etiquette of what constitutes “lift-
ing,” as opposed to, say, “scraping,” both
processes being matters requiring the closest
study and attention. Take loose leaves, for
instance. These cannot be scraped aside
with the club, though wormcasts, ice, etc.,
may. They must be lifted with the hand.
Yet if loose leaves are lying among the worm-
casts and other oddments referred to in the
rule, the proper thing to do is to scrape them
away, lifting here being numbered with the
seven deadly sins. Further, in the matter
of scraping’ if this be done while playing
“through the green” the scrape may be in
the line of the ball’s flight. If, however, the
impediment to be scraped away is on the
putting green, the scraping must be done
across the line of putt and not along it. There
are a few hundred other minor points of
the kind, but they can be dealt with on some
other occasion.
sjg * * ❖
“Brassey”: New golf clubs are springing
up all over N.S.W. The latest which has
arrived at the production stage, as the mining
men would say, is the Narellan Grange Club
on the Camden-road, near Campbelltown,
which was opened last week, when Miss
I’ayten, member of a family long resident in
the district, and herself a golfer of note,
drove the first ball. The course is 18 holes
in beautiful undulating downs country, well
grassed, but at present sand greens will be
utilised. The new club has followed the in-
creasingly popular fashion of throwing the
course open to unattached golfers at a charge
of 2s. per round, and this should be .credited
to it for righteousness, as extending golfing
facilities for the player who cannot get into
a club in the metropolitan area and does
not care to risk the delights of the Moore
Park sunrise-till-sunset queue.
s»: % ❖
“The McHaggis” : The long and thankless
job of fixing the standard scratch golf scores
for N.S.W. has nearly come to an end and
the State Handicapping Committee has
issued a list of the,! 118 clubs whose scratch
scores have been determined. The work
would have been over long ago but for the
apathy and indolence of many club officials,
who delayed or altogether neglected the task
of supplying the committee with the neces-
sary data. Briefly stated, the new system
affords a basis for allotting a newcomer to a
club a handicap which approximates to his
golfing capacity, his score in his home club
being taken info consideration in fixing his
figures for the new one. Ringing-in has been
a common experience in country holi-
day tournaments which strangers have
attended, and this is only one of the irregu-
larities which the standard system seeks to
wipe out.
# $ $ *
“Kew” : Ron Harris, of the Eastern club
(Vic.), put rip a remarkable round for a
youth at his own club course in a trophy
competition the other day, when from scratch
he returned a card of 72, or 4 up on bogey,
the next best being square. This is the same
lad who returned a best card of 77 at King-
ston Heath a few months ago in the teeth
of a heavy wind.
(Continued on next page.')


The only place in the world that
makes Cognac Brandy is the
Cognac district of France.
kartell’s comes from Cognac only.
Martell’s for Age and Quality.
MARTELLS
BRANDY
*P»m«
FRANCE
COM
KARTELL
—t(Jk
sd
WEED
TYRE CHAINS
will give your car traction.
They “grip and hold.”
Look for the name “WEED”
on every hook.
Order from your dealer ♦
WEED TYRE CHAINS,
Car and Cycle
“Chev.”: Phillip Island (Vic.) more than
doubled its population of 1000 for the 200-
miles Grand Prix race organised by the Vic.
Light Car Club. Showery weather increased
the hazards for the 24 starters, but the
local council had strained every nerve to
smooth out the corners and oil the bad
patches and the only machine which left the
course without the consent of its driver was
a Morris Minor, which skidded into “Heaven,”
a particularly nasty corner, and, after rolling
over a couple of times, released li. Baker
without undue damage. The favorite, A. ,T.
Terdich, finished first in his 1496 c.c. Bugatti,
which was clocked to do the distance in
Bhr. 14min. 22 l-ssec., an average of 58.81
m.p.h., while 79 m.p.h. was recorded on some
of the straight runs. li. Brearley was second
in a mount from the same stable, with J.
Cleaver third in a new French car, the
Lombard.
“C. 8.”: A woman sat beside one of the
drivers in the 200-mile Australian Grand
Prix at Phillip Island. She iwas Mrs.
Bessie Dentry, a wiry little person without
a nerve in her body, and the mother of an
eight-months-old baby.
* * * >l=
“C.Q.”: Segrave’s “Golden Arrow” cost
round about £lB,OOO. It Was financed by
O. J. S. Piper, a cement magnate in the
Cold Land and a one-time famous Rugby
international.
* * * =p
“Whizz”: Still they come. Another 24-
hour record is reported from Paris, where the
English drivers, Kaye Don, E. D. Eldridge
and G. Eyston, put up new figures fqr the
three to five litre class, driving a Chrysler
two-seater 1718.75 miles in the time. The
run was on the Montlhery track, where so
many records have been made, the three
pilots taking the wheel in turn. The Aus-
tralian mileage for the 24 hours, put up at
Lake Perkolili (W.A.) in a Studebaker
Commander by Smith and Poole some
months ago, is miles, which compares
favorably with the track performance.
:Je * :!= #
“Formula” : The results of the Sydney-to-
Melbourne reliability trial under the com-
bined banner of the Sydney and Melbourne
Automobile Clubs show that eight ot the
eighteen competitors finished without loss of
points, an astonishing tribute to cars and
drivers. in view of the difficult and varied
conditions. Each competitor on starting wa«
allotted 250 points and his errors were
deducted from this total. In the A class, for
cars up to 1100 c.c., the full points scorers
were a 1094 c.c. Seneschal driven by W. A.
Terdich and an 882 c.c. Triumph under the
care of Leo Spies. There Avere two “possibles”
in class C (2201 to 3300 c.c.) —a Lancia
Lambda 2366 c.c. (A. Barber, jr.) and a
2954 c.c. Chrysler (W. 11. Membrov). Of
the five big fellows in class D, four finished
without a debit. These were W. Iveir’s
4078 c.c. Chrysler, J. O. Sherwood’s 3919 c.c.
Ruick, another of the same type entered by
Boyd Edkins and driven by Reg Nelson, and
a 4224 c.c. Vauxhall owned by F. A. Parle
and steered by Norman Smith.
« ' * x x
“Speed”: I think I can enlighten “Whizz”
18. 13/3/’29) about the record claimed for
Maorilander Percy Coleman, motor-cycle
speed merchant, stated to have put a flying-
mile behind in 44 4-ssec. Practically all
motor-cycling races in the Shivery Islesi are
conducted on the horse racecourses, and it
is a guinea to a gooseberry that Coleman’s
effort was made on one of these. Even if the
record was not authentic in one sense, it
almost certainly was in another. Coleman
has only one eye, and he is probably the
only speedster in the world suffering from
that disability. He has won Maoriland
championships over all distances.
Miscellaneous
“Colonel Damurize”: I am glad to note
that the Australian Athletic Union is to re-
consider the whole question' of women being-
allowed to take part in any form of sport
held under its auspices. The appalling
scenes at the recent Olympiad are already in
danger of being forgotten, though eye-wit-
nesses declare the spectacle of dishevelled and
weeping females lying about the course and
tripping up the officials and judges while the
air rang with their lamentations at losing
was worse than an air raid on London in the
war days. Let us hope that these hardy lads,
having once put their hands to the duster,
will wipe feminine athletics entirely off
their slate. Would that others supposed to
control kindred forms of athletics could sum-
mon up the same spirit of hardihood, and do
their duty in a similar manner! Need I say
that I refer particularly to my own speciality
of golf?
* * * *
“Te Kuiti”: Stanley Lay, the Maoriland
javelin thrower, put up a great performance
at Dq.nnevirke (M.L.) the other day, when
he recorded a throw of 213 ft. 2|in. The
Australasian record by the same athlete
stands officially at 209 ft. 7in., but Lay is
credited with having thrown 218 ft. 2;}in. at
Wellington (M.L.) in December, 1927,
though, beciFuse of a slight following wind, the
feat did not go down on the records. It was
this performance which made the Maori-
lander fancy his chances at the Amsterdam
Olympiad, though lie could get nothing near
the distance there, Lundquist, of Sweden,
winning with 218 ft. GJin.
* * * *
“Ula” : Reason missed something the other
day in Melbourne when a high-heeled girl
box-rattler stepped on to the Richmond Club’s
bowling green, sinking her foot-stilts into the
spongy turf. The storm of remonstrance went
unheeded for a time; then Miss High-lleels
removed her shoes, tossed them aside, and
went on with her collecting. The damage had
been done, however, and it will be quite a
while before the balls cease to bump over
tliat particular patch of green.
* * * *
“C.E.”: The oldest S.A. bowls club, the
Adelaide, captured this year’s local premier-
ship with 13 wins to 2 defeatlts oldest
rival, Adelaide Oval, on top last season, is
this time a bad third, with suburban Prospect
dividing them.
* * * *
“Captain Kidd”: Bowls is not the only
sport which conceals unsuspected cave-man
characteristics in its devotees (B. 20/3/’29).
Model-yacht racing might well be imagined
as the most innocent and lamblike of obses-
sions. Not so, for at a gathering of the
fraternity at Sydney’s Moore Park a num-
ber engaged in a bloody fray from which a
couple of dozen emerged black-eyed and
bleeding, while no fewer than three others
had to be conveyed to hospital in an ambu-
lance which was providentially passing. The
trouble arose from one member accusing
another of running his boat stiff so as to get
a bit of weight, or whatever it is they put
on, off the dead ’un for the next meeting.
The worst feature of the affair was the
enticement into the row of a lot of harmless
cricketers, whose bats and stumps were
freely utilised in the discussion.
* * =i= *
“Altcar”: That classic of the long dogs,
the Waterloo Cup, was run off last week on
the famous Lancashire flats, and was won
by Gordon Smith’s Golden Surprise from
H. Wells’s Bassoon. The winner lived up to
his name, for his price when he left the slips
was G to 1 against, a fairly long shot for
the final. The renowned coursing event goes
back to 1836, when the eight nominators com-
peted for a gold snuff box. Nowadays the
entry is limited to a draw of 64, and the
winner’s cut is £5OO.
* * * *
“Bermuda”: A well-built yacht may be
classed among the immortals of sport, as
witness the King’s Britannia, over 30 years
old and still winning races. One of the
same mould is the old Bona, which romped
in an easy winner for the Sydney yachting
season just ended with five wins out of nine
races. The old craft has had a long and
distinguished career on the harbor and out-
side it, especially when there has been a bit
of wind going, and since her owner fitted her
out with the now fashionable Bermuda rig,
has displayed as much unexpected skittish-
ness as an old maid who has had her hair
shingled.
A. FAIRFAX, the N.S.W. all-rounder, who
jumped in a season from club to Test
cricket and made a success of it.
“Hotliam” : Though there is over a year
to run yet, the Victorian Rowing Associa-
tion is already casting about for a suitable
area of water whereon to row the 1930 inter-
State eight-oar race for the King’s Cup. It
has at last been realised that, whatever the
other advantages of the Yarra, it is hardly an
ideal venue for deciding an eight-oar race
with half a dozen crews taking part. The
general feeling is that Lake Colac will be
selected. This lies on the railway line to
W arrnambool, some SO miles s w of Mel-
bourne, a fact which will probabl.fr have its
effect on the “gate,” though there is room
enough for a hundred craft on it.
* * * *
“Shin Guard”: The Australian • Hockey
Association is sending a side to tour Maori-
land during the coming season, and the trip
may be extended to the Fijis, where brown
and white alike have taken keenly to the
game. It is some years since a team from
this side the Tasman tried conclusions with
the All Blacks, though we had a visit from
them a couple of years ago. They have
always been a bit too strong for our players,
especially on their home grounds. A good
deal of trouble is experienced in getting a
first-class side together for these long tours.
* * * #
“Bamboo": The Australian polo players
in California have ended their tour, and
DR. C. F. WARREN, retiring treasurer oj
the N.S.W. Rugby Union, to whose
untiring enthusiasm the amateur code
owes much.
the 48 Australian ponies they brought over
with them are to be auctioned before the
team sets face for home. Purely a private
venture, the tour has been a great success.
Skipper Skene has been so impressed with
the possibilities that he has announced his
intention of trying to organise an All-Aus-
tralia team to tour the United States next sea-
son. The trouble so far has been that though
there have been opportunities in plenty
offered for the visit of an Australian team
to America, our players and officials have
approached the subject very much in the
spirit of a total prohibitionist asked to
invade a Surry Hills wineshop.
* * * *
“Ride Off” : The N.S.W. polo contingent
is polishing up its gear in anticipation of the
Dudley Cup and Australasian Gold Cup
tourneys, both of which will be held in
Sydney this year. The Gold Cup games will
be held before the Dudley tourney, and the
period of play will run from June 26 to
July 6, at Kensington. The Gold Cup, which
is at present in the keeping of Harden
(N.S.W.) club, is open to teams from any-
where in Australasia. A Maoriland quar-
tette took part in the opening contest three
years ago, but since then it has been fought
out by Australian teams. At present, it
looks as if the issue will lie between at
least three teams from N.S.W. and one
each from Victoria and Queensland. Goul-
burn will defend the Dudley Cup, won last
year.
* * * *
“Blue Chalk”: Fred Lindrum, who re-
turned to Melbourne from his calamitous
tour of England, in which he was unable to
get within coo-ee of his Australian form
owing to a run of bad health, due to the cold
weather, has announced that Australia will
definitely see the famous English player,
Willie Smith, this season. He is expected in
May, and a match between him and Fred
wili open the tour in Sydney. Smith is not
having a cut at the English championship
owing to some feud with the authorities, and
only Newman and Carpenter have challenged.
Joe Davis, the holder, was required this year
to take part in the tournament, instead of
sitting on his title for the challenge round
as heretofore. . By good luck, he drew the
bye and is to meet the winner of the
Newman-Carpenter clash, which should be
Newman for a certainty.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: The Australian Swim-
ming Union has declared that paid surf life-
savers are professionals—an endorsement
of the rule already laid down by the inter-
national body in control of swimming. There
are one or two other Australian amateur
sport organisations which would do well to
pay more attention to the Internationa]
Athletic Federation’s rules as to professional-
ism. notably the athletic bodies, some of
which are particularly lax in this respect.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Hayband”: Read and Wriglit was the
caption on a signboard that once hung over
a Melbourne street. Till recently _ Burns and
Johnson carried on a business in Sydney;
presumably they agreed better than the black
and white acquaintances of 20 years ago.
Virtue and Noble was a N.S.W. Northern
Rivers alliance which for years conducted a
stock and station agency. But the most aptly
named firm I’ve known was Joiner and_ Good-
wood, a Dunedin (M.L.) confederation in
the timber line.
$ * * *
“P.M.”: It is time some adequate scale of
penalties for wholesale thieving was laid
down. At Camperdown (Vic.), a cream-
waggon driver was sentenced to 12 months'
imprisonment for stealing £l2Ol worth of
cream from his employers—he had been
diverting half a ton of cream a month to an-
other factory and pocketing the cheques. The
class of man who would commit that offence
would consider 12 months for £lBOl a sound
investment.
* # * *
“FY7”: Queensland is embarking on a
new and what promises to be a profitable
enterprise, the export of stumps from
“cabinetwood” trees to America, where the
beautifully-grained woods are in high demand
for veneering. In the past walnut, bean,
maple and other stumps have been lett to rot
after the trees had been cut down for milling.
It is only in the rooted stumps that the
twisted and varied patterns in which veneer-
ers delight can be found. These are now
bringing better prices than the trees used to
do in the log.
* # * 1=
“P.M.”: Touching these B.M.A. charges
(B. 6/3/’29), for ordinary visits they are:
Under two miles, minimum, 10s. Gd.; maxi-
mum, £2 2s. Over two miles, minimum, 10s.
Gd. per mile. Our Vic. doctor’s practice
clashed about 12 miles out with that of a
fledgling from Melbourne, who squeaked when
he found the old man was charging £3 3s.
for a 12-mile visit instead of the union rate
of £6 Gs. “You’ll soon get tired of studying
those rates,” the veteran told him. “When
you have been here as long as I have, you’ll
find it pays you better to study the rates
your patients are getting for their butter-fat.”
tf as * *
“Morita”: “Boss” (B. 6/3/’29) asserts
that Australia is a large supplier of meat
to the U.S. garrisons in Hawaii and the
Philippines, but the fact is that very little
goes to Manila nowadays. A few years ago.
when U.S. interests in the Philippines had
direct branches in Australia, regular supplies
went forward. Since these branches were
closed the bulk of the business has reverted
to the Chicago barons.
* * * *
“Old Sydney”: When the Woollahra
House (Sydney) property was cut up the
other day £975 was paid for materials in
the house itself, though the demolition of
the mansion that Daniel Cooper spent
£50,000 on will be a costly job. Before
this, the massive staircase had been sold
for £350. One long strip with a 64ft.
road-frontage running to Lady Martin’s
Beach brought £3OO per foot. The subdividers
made a handsome profit, with land still in
hand, on their £57,200 purchase; some of
the buyers were relying on quick turn-overs,
too. One who gave £4500 for his allotment
(£6l per foot) resold on advantageous
terms before he had paid his deposit.
if * * *
“Tee Essbie”: Concerning land values in
Sydney a century ago (B. 13/3/’29). William
Henry Moore, then Crown Solicitor, received
on June 30, 1823, a grant of 2 roods 13
perches, with a frontage of 144 ft. to George-
street and 165 ft. to King-street, for a quit-
rent of ninepence per rod, which was to
cease on payment of £63 having been made.
On May 28, 1834, this land was subdivided
and' sold by auction. The corner lot, with a
frontage of 251 ft. tb George-street and 86ft.
to King-street, realised £55 10s. per foot,
a price which so astounded the Sydney of
that era that the sobriquet “Golden Corner”
was bestowed upon the spot. The other lots
brought from £45 10s. to £34 10s. per foot.
To-day Moore’s grant would probably sell for
close on £300,000.
* * * *
“Esters”: South Africa, with a start of
centuries, has a command of the English
wine market which Australia well might
envy. The Cape growers specialise in the
lighter beverage wines, and in some of these
from the famous Constantin district they
rival even the accepted French vintages. The
heavier port and burgundy types, which
compose most of Australian sales in Britain,
are not greatly bothered about, it being
: recognised that in these types the Douro
is supreme, while the cheaper sweet red
wines have strong opposition from both
' Portugal and Spain. The difference between
1 Afrikanders and Australians is that they
habitually drink their beverage wines and
we don’t. “To make wine one must drink
: wine,” says an old French proverb. If that
be true, Australia has still a long way to go.


Close Australia’s Gate
V.
I
yb
if
,
9
\ • V
giiltfß* 1
; i'
.j»i
UIU>
(9Sc=
> v
n
m
i /
+*r\
f 4
I I
fj 8
V,
tL
I i
m!
I
l Import «L‘
WMIAKY
b
\
/
SSfO
'•<
A
SS3
yS>4
mcj
D
G
:
❖
nOIHUTI
O'S'.n i o a BQ>Tcra 3* ~rz. _r
tßAlDiSTltUftt&eS! 2
Vorlcfc Pi/rcsb
PRICE
BERRY
against unnecessary
whisky importations
PREJUDICE
and unthinking purchase lose Australian
whisky users nearly £2,000,000 per annum.
It’s a high price for a comparatively small community to pay
for one of life’s incidental pleasures. Yet, if legislation closed
the national gate against this waste, the individual’s pleasure
would not be lessened.
Australia produces whisky superior to any in the World —-
OLD COURT WHISKY.
If hundreds of thousands of good Australians did not realise
this already, the loss quoted above could be at least doubled.
Those responsible for the loss —and it’s out of their own
pockets—are those who have not tried Old Court; they are
those who heed the voice of Prejudice or who order their
whisky unthinkingly.
To them, we suggest the “test of taste.’’ A trial of Old Court
usually results in the conviction that it is second to none. And
—every convert protects both his pocket and an industry
employing an army of Australians.


tinder
Royal
//arrant
sf
To H.M.
George V
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
MesMsrt
mmwmm
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Li mited
SYDNEY.
Champagne,
Qiaiieslleidsiec>
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Averts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
IShe WENTWORTH
Easter Carnival
Commencing SATURDAY, MARCH 30, with a Dinner de Luxe—A
REPLICA OF NEW YEAR’S EVE—at which Each Guest will receive
a Beautiful Gift.
DINNER FROM 7.30 p.m 217-
SUPPER FROM 9 p.m 12/6
MONDAY, SYDNEY CUP NIGHT Carnival Night at the Wentworth,
Novelties and Gifts.
DINNER 21/-; SUPPER 12/6
TUESDAY—COUNTRY PARTY REUNION 8.30 p.m.
THURSDAY Popular Prices
EVERY AFTERNOON Delightful Tea Dances
A Brilliant New Orchestra in Intriguing
New and Favorite Old Jazz Numbers.
Order Wines Before 6 p.m. For Reservations, Telephone 8W1361.
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT
( Located, within the City Boundary, seven
minutes from G.P.O.')
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 150 Rooms, is now open and
features Two-, Three- and Four-
room Suites, each with Bath; also
Single and Double Rooms. Central
Heating, Running Water and
’Phones installed in each room.
Unsurpassed Harbor Views.
Weekly inclusive tariff,
from £5/5/-
Daily, from £1
Telephone: F 2 161 (8 lines) ; Tele-
graphic address: Fifmac, Syd-
ney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayser
SLIPPER
HEEL
SILK HOSLER[?]
The Lyceum Club was all dressed up to
meet Sir Dudley and Lady de Chair and
daughter Elaine on Thursday night. Pro-
fessor Radclift'e Brown painted a vivid pic-
ture of the Australian blackfellow, dilating
on his artistic qualities till the audience
began to wonder if poor old King Billy and
his subjects were not more civilised than
their white supplanters. The abo., he de-
clared, was almost without a peer as a
dancer and had a delightfully keen sense
of humor. He could even laugh heartily
during his religious ceremonies and see noth-
ing wrong in mixing levity and religion.
Mrs. Musico proposed the vote of thanks,
and then the audience turned to the discus-
sion of vittles, club-president Mrs. Thomas
doing the honors.
When the Firm threw off the tow-ropes
and the Repertory Society went to pieces on
the financial rocks, Harold Watch, always
the most successful of its players, got going
with business on the same lines. Now h«* has
roped in Miss Elaine de Chair as a star;
she is to appear at a series of showings at
the Conservatorium on June 15, 17 arid 18
in the one-acter “The Prince Who Was a
Piper.” Elaine is getting plenty of coaching
in amateur work; she will be seen with the
Theatre of Youth in its second programme.
The Musical Association got busy before
the Easter exodus and beckoned its mem-
bers and their belongings into Farmer’s
one afternoon last week to greet violinist
Erica Morini and the returned Arthur Ben-
jamin. The Exhibition Hall was chosen for
the field of battle, and really it was a battle
to draw a breath when all were assembled.
It being an afternoon party there was no
necessity to draw corks, which w T as just as
well for the tightly-packed concourse.
The usual brew of speeches was turned on
while the billy boiled. Miss Morini decided
against shaking hands with each of the
rounded-up hundreds. Instead, she smiled
over a pink posy, which blended as happily
with her type as would a wreath of daisies
on Carmen. Not that Erica is of the big
and dashing order; she is small, and her
gazelle eyes are her best feature. There is
something intensely vital and arresting about
her, and her cheeks bloomed deliciously on
her introduction to Sydney. Dressed in
silver tissue or white moire against a back-
ground of great yellow trumpet-lilies she
should look stunning. All musical Sydney
was in the throng, but with the exception of
Erica’s notes and Arthur Benjamin’s address
in reply, this Letter has never heard such in-
different speaking voices. Pavlova’s manager,
Kurtz, was among the notables, reminiscent
somehow of an eager chicken stretching en-
thusiastically out of an Easter egg. Gerald
Marr Thompson was there, and made perhaps
the only rhyme in his life. He smiled like a
cherub over an ice-cream, and murmured,
“Oh, Mr. Kurtz, beware of the skirts!”
Manager Gravestock was kept busy rushing
hither and thither. Trixie Tange talked over
the programme of her Easter-week concert
with Dagmar Thomson. Everybody wore
their best manners to go with their best
clothes, and there were roses on every table.
A survey of the women musicians Sydney
has seen during the last seven or eight
years suggests that none can equal the
striking looks of violinist Daisy Kennedy,
now the wife of the poet Drinkwater, but
on her Australian tour the wife of Moisei-
witsch, the pianist. Daisy was tall and
slim, wore exotic, sometimes barbaric, color-
ings, and carried herself gallantly. There
was something about her suggestive of a
Tolstoi heroine.
Easter week is to provide a hectic seven
nights for dancing Sydney. The Canberra
has issued cards for a grand ball on its
speckless decks; the Country Women’s Asso-
ciation is flying its blue and gold at the
Ambassadors over its ' Easter dinner dance,
and the Country party ladies are having a
flutter at the Wentworth. The Wilfrid Fair-
faxes are giving a ball at their Point Piper
home, when, daughter Margaret and Ann
Gordon will make the grand curtsey. The
Faithfull Anderson ball and the usual Race
Saturday night at the Rose Bay Golf Club
are other fixtures sure to be well patronised.
When Australia’s wicket-keeper, W. A.
Oldfield, married pretty Ruth Hunter at St.
Jude’s last Saturday night there was an
• assemblage of over 2000. These weren’t
front-seaters, either, but just the interested
public. Six policemen were on duty. The
bride, who is the eldest daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. John Hunter of Randwiek, wore
a French model of ivory satin flashing with
rhinestones. These outlined the long side
drapes of the skirt, which fell to the ankle.
A Russian head-dress of silver moored to
her uark head the veil of Brussels lace.
This was heavy with pearls and rhinestones,
and was long enough to sweep into a back-
wash of train. Her four ’maids were bal-
anced by her husband’s best man, Johnny
Taylor, and grooms Edgar Rofe, Jack Mar-
tin and Bob Herring. The Orford takes
the cricketer and his bride to England for
the honeymoon.
The floral decorations at the wedding of
cricketer Bert Oldfield and pretty Ruth
Hunter last Saturday evoked the long-drawn-
out “Oh!” of admiration. Into the bride's
trailing armlet of frangipanni, stephanotis
and white orchids a miniature cricket-bat
was inti’oduced, worked in flowers, while a
whole cricket-pitch traversed the bridal table
at the Ambassadors. Stumps, bats, bail
and even players were ingeniously rendered
in colored flowers. The guests' tables were
massed with pink and white roses, and tall
standards of gladioli and roses turned the
room into a flowering walk.
Another striking and elaborately decorated
table at the Ambassadors last Saturday was
that of the George Montes, who are off for
foreign parts. A sailing-ship with canvas
spread floated down a stream of real water.
The ship was, of course, of flowers, and the
sails were picked out in tiny electrics. A
lighthouse that sent out a warning beacon
and a floral aeroplane hovering over all
were other items in the eye-focussing
scheme.
Mrs. A. V. Roberts, president of the
N.S.W. Women’s League, compelled admira-
tion in her handling of the meeting called
by the Industrial Peace Association “to de-
mand legislation to prevent strikes and lock-
outs before a vote has been taken of the
women dependent on the industry.” In the
teeth of a raging storm of “The Red Flag"
and “Solidarity For Ever,” Mrs. Roberts
kept the chair and Mrs. Tom Walsh
stuck to the bridge. They couldn’t prevent
the meeting being wrecked by the extremists,
but at least they made a plucky show.
Seashell brown georgettes floated about
Yalma Miller as she made her way up the
aisle of St. Stephen’s Scotchb.vterian Kirk
in Phillip-street last week. A soft felt hat of
the same delicate toning and a trailing armlet
of frangipanni, mixed with lily of the valley,
gave the festive note to this subdued wed-
ding outfit; while ’maid Iris Smith deepened
the golden tone of her frocking by a cluster
of yellow roses. Bride, who is the daughter
of the A. M. Millers, of Bellevue Hill, had
brother Joseph’s arm to the altar when Wil-
liam Robertson Baton, of Edinburgh, Scot-
land, took possession of hand and heart,
according to Padre Hugh Baton’s book of
words. Reception at Romano’s. Honeymoon
in Hobart.
The forceful-looking face in this picture is
that of Viola Smith, the only woman Trade
C o mmissioner
in the world.
She represents
Uncle Sam at
Shanghai, and
when she went
to China in
1922 as Assist-
an t. Tra d e
C ommissioner
she was the
only woman in
that branch of
the service.
The results of
her labors
were such that
other women
were admitted,
and now
there’s a wo-
man Assistant
Trade Com-
missioner a t
Rome, and an-
other at Berlin. In telling this bit of her
commercial history to Sydney Feminists last
week, the visitor made a palpable hit when
she said that this close working together
of men and women in responsible positions
stressed on the male brain the claim of the
equality of the sexes much more than having
a few women members of Parliament. Among
the audience was U.S. Consul Lawton’s lady.
After her address the very capable speaker
had to answer a number of questions as to
the status of women in industry in Govern-
ment employ and in the educational service
of the U.S. There, it appears, women move
serene in every sphere.
The Lawtons, who have gained tremendous
popularity during their stay in Sydney, are
already a little wistful over their approach-
ing departure. Mr. Lawton retires from the
Consular service in September; in August
he and his w r ife leave Australia.
Perhaps it is because Hugh .T. Ward is
gradually withdrawing from the theatre busi-
ness that his favorite way of entertaining his
guests is with a cinema in the home. Last
Sunday he and Mrs. Ward gave a party in
one of their new flats at Potts Point. The flats,
aptly known as Bellevue, are set with their
backs to Wylde-street, and have the Harbor
for their front-door step. They are packed
tight with every new household gadget. Son
Mel’s pictures of what he did on the Great
Barrier with a recent scientific expedition
were the hit of the evening.
The softest of sky-blues enveloped Ruri
Saunders, of Cremorne. when she travelled
out to St. Mark’s, Darling Point, tne other
morning on matrimony intent. The young
man who met her with the ring was A. B.
Harvey, eldest son of the F. H. Harveys, of
Dubbo. Canon Howard Lea blessed the
vows and then everybody made for the Royal
Sydney Yacht Club at Ivirribilli, where the
wedding lunch was spread. Here Mr. and
Mrs. Frank Saunders received the guests,
Mrs. Saunders wearing an attractive navy
blue outfit.
Let The Bulletin introduce Mi’s. Harry
Burrell, wife of the naturalist who knows
all about the
platypus. In
their roomy
old Randwiek
home Mr. and
Mrs. Burrell
have got to-
gether a com-
p 1 et e collec-
tion of Little
Brother from
egg to beauti-
fully preserved
adult speei-
men s. Th e
lady of the
species has
her tail snugly
wrap p e d
around her
bill she
snoozes all the
time her eggs
are hatching.
Even the gum-
lined nests, just as they were taken from the
river bank, are there. This collection has been
got together for the museum at Canberra, and
with it will go a magnificent library on bird
life, the latter a present from Mrs. Burrell.
Nowhere in the naturalists’ world does the
name of Harry Burrell need any introduction.
Once he sent a platypus to New York, and
in the specially-designed tank he had built
for it the little creature lived 49 days, and
was a star turn at the New York Zoo. The
question of its diet has always handicapped
the creature’s travelling, but Mr. Burrell
is trying to evolve an almost vegetarian platy-
pus. If upkeep becomes cheaper thereby, the
little fellow may outdo Russian sable as a
luxurious trimming for winter coats and
evening wraps. Mrs. Burrell has had nearly
as much to do with making Australia’s own
link with the fossil age widely known as
has her husband. He can write all about
his discoveries, as shown by his book, “The
Platypus,” but finds he can’t talk about
it except to brother-naturalists. So when-
ever an invitation comes to lecture Mrs. Bur-
rell, who has accompanied her husband on
all his scientific expeditions, takes the plat-
form. She has been in all corners of Aus-
tralia, and as far back as 1910 went turtle-
riding through the opalescent lagoons on
Nor’-West Island in the Great Barrier Reef.
But even before her Nature studies ranks
her work for the returned soldier. Since
1914 every movement for the betterment of
the sick or distressed soldier has had Mrs.
Burrell’s active sympathy and support. Just
now she is directing a cabaret for the relief
of the limbless soldiers at the Wentworth on
April 10.
At the meeting of the Fellowship of Aus-
tralian Writers on Wednesday Mary Gil-
more waxed eloquent on the genius of
Dorothy Cottrell, and Mr. Mackaness dis-
coursed so enthusiastically on the art of the
short story—and the merit of the Australian
product—that local practitioners sat up and
began to sharpen their pencils. Dulcie
Deamer was in a confidential mood and dis-
closed a well-kept secret with the admission
that she had never even seen a caveman. The
evening was given an academic finish by
H. M. Green, of the Fisher Library, and
Nettie Palmer.
The new school building at the Darlington
institution for deaf and dumb and blind
children is an accomplished fact. Over a
third of the necessary £30.000 has been
gathered in a year, thanks largely to
the impetus given to the Southern Cross art
union by Flight-Commander Kingsford
Smith. The aviator has been a real Big
Brother to the youngsters, even giving them
flights in his famous aircraft. So it was
fitting that he and his father and mother
should have been honored guests when presi-
dent Dr. Storrie Dixson asked Premier Bavin
to open the new school. This is built in four
floors; the class-rooms are on the ground
floor. The Premier took home with him the
plans of Sheridan as a souvenir.
The gallant little Rachel Forster Hospital
has more than justified the faith and hard
work the women doctors of Sydney have put
into it. It celebrated its seventh birthday by
an annual meeting at the Womens Uuj.
There was a murmur of approval when Min-
ister for Health Dr. Arthur declared that
sister-medicoes should be given more oppor-
tunity to exercise their skill in surgery, lc
grew to applause when he added that he
hoped to appoint two women honoraries to
the staff of the South Coast Hospital, where
two operating theatres for women have just
been completed.
A determined young man whose connec-
tion with the stage is on the business side
has determined to make sisters-in-law of
those clever Australian actresses _ Reita
Nugent and Gladys Hermes. He is Len
Nugent, who acts as treasurer at the Cri-
terion Theatre. Reita is doing well in Lon-
don ; when Len and Gladys set the wedding
bells chiming the ceremony will have to get
her blessing by wireless.
Scarba, the Welfare home for kiddies at
Bondi, hung out the bunting of festivity last
Saturday on behalf of its 70 little inmates.
The garden provides one of the prettiest set-
tings for a fpte, and under the week-end sky
there was a super-sparkle on flower and
leaf. The Mayoress of Waverley murmured
the opening words, and then ice-creams were
handed to each of the tiny ones for whos:*
new, wide sleeping-out verandah the func-
tion had been arranged. Up till ten o'clock
this verandah provided an open-air ballroom.
Eighteen hundred pounds and a bit more
to come was the financial result when
shutters went up at the Sydney Grammar
fete on Saturday. Not a bad afternoon’s
takings, and a fox-terrier pup was respon-
sible for £9 10s. of it. lie was raffled in the
refreshment-booth, which rang the till down
for the last time on £220. The fete was
organised by the Sydney Grammar School's
Women’s Association, and overflowed the
grounds and the rooms of that historic
stronghold of education. Mungo MacCallum,
two of whose sons were Grammar boys, de-
livered the opening oration, while his lady
smiled over deep red roses handed up by the
small Judith Molesworth. Headmaster Dett-
mann made a speech both wdse and witty, and
Harold Weigall, whose father was a famous
Grammar headmaster, won the set. of crystal
tumblers and water-pitcher specially cut for
the occasion by a Sydney firm. They are
blazoned with the school shield and inset
with the school colors.
Before the Italian liner the Maria Cris-
tina left Port Jackson, she staged in her
cool and commodious dining-saloon, the perfect
lunch party. The guest of honor was Papal
Delegate Cattaneo, and the decorations were
just sufficiently flecked with the Vatican
colors. There were 20 hors d’ncuvres, and 25
items in pastry and iced trifles ushered the
chief platter. The light wines were like bottled
sunshine, and in the menus two figures like
a Watteau pastoral were delicately poised.
Consul-General Grossardi and Signor Rossi,
president of the Italian Chamber of Com-
merce, were also among the guests; the Maria
Cristina bore back the Grossardis and the
Rossis for a glimpse of Naples and of
Rome. On the day of sailing the cabins
of the two Italian ladies were spilling over
with red and yellow roses.
Is it the lure of Australia's youth which
brings to these shores travellers so full of
years? Last week incoming steamers
brought an English lady, Miss Bakewell,
aged 77 (who not only saw the Heads but
read the smallest electric signs on the Har-
bor without glasses), on her first visit to
these parts; a Hungarian Count, aged 80;
and the fascinating Aloysius Horn, aged 79.
Everybody knows “Ivory Coast in the Eight-
ies,” and when the author arrived at the
Publicity Club’s lunch there was almost a
mob of writing-men waiting for him. Mr.
Horn declared that Sydney has the finest-
looking men and women he has seen in his
long wanderings. From here he goes off to
Hollywood. Incidentally, the Demosthenes,
which brought the octogenarian author to
our doors, carried 50 babies.
Maisie Cheriton, an enterprising South
Australian girl, is at present installed as
governess to the offspring of the King
of Spain’s secretary. Before that the
clever Australian was teaching the Duke of
Rutland’s son (Diana Manners’s nephew) at
the historic Haddon Hall, which the present
Duke has had reopened. Maisie’s sister Jean
runs a very'French-polished school for girls
at Doone in Roslyn Gardens.
“A.G.M.” (London) writes: —
The signboard “Bective Electrical” is now displayed
outside 22 Abbey-road, St. John’s Wood. It indicates
that the electric fittings are being installed by the
concern headed by the Earl of Bective, the second hus-
band of Lady Clarke that was. The house, which is of
attractive appearance and well situated, has been
bought by the lady’s mother-in-law, the Marchioness
of Headfort, and it is being decorated and refitted in
a very elaborate way. The Headfort family will have
for a next-door neighbor Maxine Elliott, whose very
extensive establishment also serves as the London
home of her niece, who married Captain Freeman
Thomas.


~
... M
m
A
j
'
'^ll
*■ m I Mii\
ISiS 44/fsf :r l* *
m
llw?fl
r ,
V. S'
m
0
<rs
b
V
S>
'iH'
w I
m
7
d
o
u
BS®
\
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY THE EMPLOYEES OF
GEO. A. BOND & CO. LTD. (In Liq.j
“OUK
GUARANTEE'
This garment is
guaranteed perfect
manufacture. Examine
thoroughly before
washing and if defec-
tive return to store
from which it was
purchased within
7 days.
Geo. A. Bond &
Co. J,td.
And now conies
Super Rayon
with a full
Guarantee
Natural beauty is something money
cannot buy, but “Charm” is within
the reach of all who are in search
of beauty in underwear.
“Charm” comes to you with a guar-
antee that it is perfect in cut and
finish and the quality of the Soft
Rayon, the best it is possible to use.
§
RAYON UNDERWEAR
pr ° nv H U N«,


sd
nAMEs
\ToMarh
I All Linen
Indispensable to every Household.
CASH’S NAMES* are destinctive,
yet near fadeless and durable*
c/2* < ~ft-Zt£icisn6.-
Sold by all
Best Drapers
Actual Sire, Style No. 6
■ i '
Trices:
I2dz, 7/6.
6dz,5 6.
3dz, 3/6
"A feiv stitches and they're on, *
Write for Name Style Circular to
J. & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt St., Richmond, Melb
sfd
a
Washing
Ribbons
Lingerie
f
VICHY
"d
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
7he centre of Queens /anc/s
c//shfi£u/sf>&c/ Soc/o/ Ijfe*
ernonh
BRISBANE
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Cou>-t
and Lounges at the disposal of
cruests and their friends at ail
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Lines.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800[?]
Buckley [?] Nunn [?]
[?]
Moonee Valley racecourse claimed a lot of
public attention on Saturday afternoon. The
exodus of sportsmen to Sydney for the Easter
meeting not having begun, many of these
prospective travellers welcomed the chance-
of giving their picking powers a preliminary
canter. The air was very muggy, and many
feminine patrons, deceived by the gloomy
clouds, sweltered in coats and skirts. Colonel
Riccard’s wife was very smart in a dark
grey light tweed-tailored suit and a grey
felt hat decorated with French brilliants and
sapphire ornaments. Mrs. Lance Addison,
from South Australia, was arrayed in reseda-
green crepe do Chine. Both were Mrs.
Rogers Thomson’s guests at afternoon tea.
Hazel Martin was a symphony in clianel red.
Mrs. L. Aldridge; the Lauchie Mackinnons,
just back from Europe; Mrs. Ben Lcmpriere,
in navy and white-spotted silk and a large
black hat; Mrs. Murray Morton and her
daughter Mrs. Rhodes were on the lawn, also
Mrs. Gilruth, whose black and white satin
was topped by a black hat with a brim of
white lace.
There were strange lights in the sky
around Essendon on Saturday night, when
an exhibition of night flying was given as
an interlude of a dance at the aerodrome
under the auspices of the Aero Club. The
guests danced on the cement floor of the
large hangar, and partook of a lobster supper
in the clubhouse. Captain Smart piloted the
first machine, a Moth. Great Hares illumi-
nated the side of the ’drome when the ’plane,
all picked out in colored lights, taxied off
and ascended to join the stars. The pilot,
who was in evening dress, looped the loop
and did other stunts. Later Captain W. E.
Gardner went up in an Avro. Another event
of the evening was the christening of the
first of the fleet of Gipsy Moths handed over
to the club by the Civil Aviation Depart-
ment. Mayoress Salmon, of Essendon,
in silver lace and georgette wrapping,
broke a bottle of fizz over the propeller and
named the ’plane Bronzewing, wishing fair
weather and good luck to all who travelled
in her. Among the guests were Colonel
Brinsmead, of the C. A. Department; Mrs.
Brinsmead, whose plumbago-blue frock
sparkled with crystal; Cecil McKay; Dr.
Gordon, the club’s medico; Mrs. Gordon and
their lass Isabel, attractive in amber satin.
Captain Guy Moore, secretary of the club,
who looked after everyone’s pleasure, was
accompanied by his wife, who wore a gown
of parma violet. Mrs. Smart was in black,
and Margaret Chalmers, of Sydney, bright-
ened a black robe with crystal. Others there
were Captain Matthews, the Geoffrey
Heaths, Mr. and Mrs. E. H. Ivinnear, she
in a gold mesh lace gown with turbaned
head-dress • the George Leiths, Marjorie
Kimpton and Major Sheldon. In the absence
of Mrs. McKay Mrs. Sheldon played the
rOle of hostess.
The Women Citizens’ Movement has
acquired quarters in the Block Arcade, where
members may meet and drink tea. Evelyn
Scotney was called in to pronounce a bless-
ing on the enterprise and partake of the
first brew from the new teapot. The singer,
who received a posy from the president,
Mrs. Britomarte James, looked handsome in
white georgette patterned in black and red,
her millinery, of the aviator order, being-
constructed of overlapping crimson velvet
petals. The furnishing of the little green-
walled clubroom was provided by Mrs. Arthur
Whitelaw —a farewell present on the eve
of her departure to her present home in
England.
There was bridge -with music at Scott’s the
other evening under the auspices of the
Brighton branch of St. Vincent’s Hospital
Red Cross Auxiliary. Chief engineers of the
pleasant and financially profitable evening
were Mrs. R. J. Dunlea, Mrs. M. J. Canny,
Miss M. Winter, Mollie Ryan and Marjorie
Foley. Marie Bremner, the new leading lady
of “The Desert Song” co., dropped in after
the theatre and sang.
Members of the Melbourne Music Club
gave greeting with music and coffee to pianist
Minnie Hamblett, passing through on her
way home to England. The oversea musi-
cian journeyed to Australia to spend some
time with her father and sister in Sydney.
The president of the M.M.C., Thomas Brent-
nall, the hon. sec., Muriel Campbell, and
Fritz Hart voiced the welcome to the visitor.
Fritz Hart’s composition, “The Gilly of
Christ,” was sung by Lillian Stott, Millie
McCormack and Millicent Osmond, with
Ida Scott at the piano. Mrs. Herbert Brookes
and Miss Deakin, Mrs. George Tiiirkell, Mrs.
Hart and Basil, Mary Campbell and May
St. Ledger w r ere there.
The first concert of the season was given
at the Assembly Hall one evening last week
when Rita Hope ami Katie Liddell offered a
programme of music for two pianos, a mode
of musical expression in which pianistic
effects not obtainable by four hands on one
keyboard are possible. The attendance,
though fairly large, was not worthy of the
occasion. The performers, both exceptionally
sound technicians, opened with two of the
Bach choral preludes, followed by a Concerto
by the same composer. Other numbers were
Debussy’s “Afternoon of a Faun” and
arrangements of folk songs by Percy Grain-
ger, all faultlessly played. Lavish offer-
ings of flowers rewarded the pianists.
The Auxiliary helpers of the Alfred Hos-
pital have had their usual bad luck with the
weather. An elaborate fete, organised to
celebrate the diamond jubilee of the institu-
tion, was handicapped on Friday by heavy
showers which necessitated the hurried dis-
mantling of the brightly-decorated and well-
stocked stalls. Lord Somers opened the two-
days’ show, and was received by Robert
Knox, chairman of the Auxiliary; Colonel
Eller, secretary and superintendent; and
F. D. Miclmelis, president of the hospital.
The Auxiliary, a tower of strength to the
hospital, which was established in 18<1,
started work in 1923 and now has 91
branches of women helpers.
Members of the Australian W omen’s Nat-
ional Club said good-bye to Mrs. C. Bolitho,
for 18 years the organising secretary of the
W.N.L., who is off to England n?xt week.
Mrs. Watson Robertson, the club’s president,
was deputed to express regrets and present
a parting gift from her fellow political
workers.
A bridge party was held at the Rex to
increase the financial resources of the Con-
valescent Home for Women at Clayton,
which has been quietly carrying on for more
than a quarter of a century without a public
plea for assistance. Mrs. J. W. Springthorpe,
assisted by Mrs. F. Pewtress, supervised the
arrangements.
Secretary J. Sutton Crow, of the Uni.
Con., and his wife had an informal little
gathering at their home among the hills of
Mont Albert to welcome back to duty Prof.
Bernard Heinze after his visit to Europe
Prof. Laver, former director of the Con.,
who emerged from his country retreat to
resume the reins during his successor’s
absence, shared the limelight, and was
thanked for his services.
Mrs. M. R. McMillan, known in social
welfare movements in this city, is on her
to England. She bade good-bye to several of
her friends over teacups at the Lyceum Club
during the week, among her guests being
Rear-Admiral Napier’s wife, the Chauvel
lady and Mrs. Alfred Deakin.
The lady with the far-away look in her
eyes depicted here is Jean Stevenson, who
really is much more given to doing than to
dreaming. A Dunedin girl who insisted on
beeom ing a
typist in her
father’s office,
she later
looked around
for a field
of service
and decided
to enlist under
the Y.W.C.A.
banner. Money
being needed
for a training,
she studied
advert ising,
saved her
earn ings in
that sphere,
and took a
course of in-
struction at
Adelaide. Ac-
tive service
started in Ben-
digo. Later,
she became a student at the National Train-
ing College in New York. Returning to Aus-
tralia she was appointed industrial secretary
of the Y.W.C.A. and travelled round Aus-
tralasia for five years. She w 7 as at Auckland
when the general secretaryship of the Mel-
bourne organisation was offered to her. She
accepted, after considerable hesitation, and
has achieved notable success. A Dickenson-
Monteath camera made the picture.
Flattering speeches by E. L. Kiernan, of
the Plush Chamber, and Speaker Peacock,
with tea, served to farewell the Leg. Council’s
chairman of committees W. H. Edgar and
his wife. The little party w r as given at Par-
liament House. Mrs. Kiernan, who wore a
flowered chiffon frock beneath a faw 7 n silk
coat, with blending straw millinery, passed
over to Mrs. Edgar with her welcome a
bouquet of roses.
The coat-posy seems to have come to stay,
for since it appeared in artificial form in
wool about tw r o winters ago it has remained
in favor, and it has popped up again to
brighten up sombre wrap or tailored suit.
The latest adornments of the sort are fash-
ioned of leather in dull blue, red, brown
and white. Gazelle fur in natural touingsm
also exploited in some of these floral decora-
tions.
The chevaliers of the stethoscope gathered
in force for the linking of Meredith Graham,
youngest daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Charles
Sutton, of Camberwell, and Dr. George
Robin Adlington Syme, only son of medical-
knight George Syme and his lady. After the
ceremony at Melbourne Grammar School
chapel girls of the Victorian Hockey Associa-
tion, in bright field uniforms, raised sticks on
high to form an arch above their former
captain and her bridegroom. The bride was
gowned in deep cream lace over a sheen of
pale pink satin, with a lovely old-lace veil
and an armful of lilies. The bridegrooms
sister Theo, whose blue tulle frock made a
resplendent background for a sheaf of crim-
son gladioli, was attendant ’maid. There
w-ere rejoicings afterwards at No. 9.
This studious-looking young man is Terence
Crisp, who combines the serious business of
Law with the more frivolous hobby of ama-
teur mumming. He is a nephew of Judge
Crisp, of the
Apple Isle. As
a member of
the Repertory
Thea t r e
Society Mr.
Crisp has given
many fin e
c h a r acterisn-
tions, one of
his best being
the icono-
clastic printer
in Ibsen’s
“Enemy of
the P e o p 1 e.’’
Lately he
made a suc-
cess in the
Little Art
Theatre’s pro-
duction of
“The Vortex.”
and is due to
appear with
Beresford Fowler’s troupe in the same role
during the present season in Tasmania. For
3LO he has supervised many broadcast
play-readings by amateurs, and the Play-
lovers’ Club reckons itself lucky in having
induced him to become its hon. sec.
Jean Elsa Showers, whose father, A. F.
Showers of Essendon, is on the Stock Ex-
change, was a bride of last week, the other
contracting party being James, eldest son
of the Mari Cumings, of East St. Kilda.
The leading lady dressed the part in white
taffeta and tulle, with a lace veil, and held
a sheaf of white and gold lilies. Three
’maids in pink blossom-sprayed ninon car-
ried armfuls of pink tiger-lilies. Toasts were
drunk at No. 9.
In Fitzroy Gardens, where the elms are
turning golden, the stroller would be well
advised to follow the poplar walk to the
hothouses, which are worth inspecting. No
longer has Ballarat a monopoly of Victoria’s
finest tuber begonias for the Fitzroy curator
has prepared as noble a collection of blooms
as Ballarat ever produced. They bloom
in pots, rows and rows of them, like
giant camellias or hollyhocks, dressed in
the brightest lines. The most vivid yellows
and reds and the most charming pinks are
contrasted with pure white flowers, aptly
named Peace, and the palest of apricot and
flesh tones. Some petals are smooth of edge ;
others much serrated. But all are lovely;
and their combined effect is—well, go and
see them for yourself.
Xavier Col., Kew, needs £20.000 to com-
plete the magnificent chapel of Sydney white
freestone which it is building, and the Old
Xaverians’ Association has begun a drive
among the 2700 old boys for the cash. Up
to the present £17,000 has been raised by
old boys and friends of the col. Hopes
were entertained that several thousands
would- flow in after the victory of Xavier
crew in the head-of-the-river race last May.
but the hopes weren’t fulfilled owing to the
bad season. Now 7 next May is being looked
forward to.
Back in Australia, renewing old friend-
ships, is Ann Moore, who has made her home
in Paris for the last seven years. Miss
Moore, whose people had station property in
the Riverina, went to Europe in 1914 with
her sister Josie, arriving when the war-
drums were sounding. She linked up with
the British. Red Cross and served in France
until demobilisation in ’l9. Her sister, a
trainee of the Children’s Hospital here, went
nursing in a military hospital, and married
an Australian, Dr. Campbell Milligan, now 7
a Harley-street surgeon. Miss Moore re-
turned to her native land, but she still heard
Paris calling, and eventually accepted a post
in Miss Leslie Macpherson’s tourist agency
in the French capital. Miss Macpherson hails
from Roma (Bananaland), and her assist-
ants, beside Miss Moore, are Isabel Liddle,
daughter, of a retired South Australian bank
manager, and Dorothy Watson, of Melbourne,
whose father is London manager of the
Bank of Victoria. As French law require'
that every fifth person in a foreign office
must be a native of the republic, a charm-
ing young Parisienne completes the per-
sonnel. Miss luoore’s experiences have in-
cluded a voyage to Mexico with a lady clieni
who owned a sugar plantation in the laud 01
revolution and who found it necessary to
take an escort of armored cars when sic-
inspected her property.
Two Australian girls, Lilian Hill and
Winifred Gould, have opened a tea-shop at
Mentone, in the Riviera. They gained ex-
perience in a similar venture at Sandringham
(Melb.). Mentone lias already one such tea-
room, run by a Tasmanian girl, now the wife
of Captain F. Cary.
Mr. and Mrs. Goteh Birrill and their
family have taken up quarters at the Botani-
cal Hotel, lie is a managing director of
Gordon and Gotcli, and business is behind
the visit, which will presently extend to
other States and Maoriland. The Birriils
will return to London by way of Canada.
Meantime they are making many new friends.
The Oronsay brought back to Australia
Nellie Veitch, the popular teacher of verse-
speaking, who retired over a year ago and
celebrated the occasion with a holiday abroad.
She intends in future to reside in Sydney.
On her journey home she had as travelling
companion her great friend Ada Crossley,
the contralto, who embarked at Colombo.
Miss Veitch declares that the famous Aus-
tralian, after an absence of 30 years from the
concert platform, has regained her vocal
powers, her voice having all the beautiful
sonorous quality of yore.
Passed out somewhat suddenly last Friday,
the McPherson lady, wife of our Premier.
She leaves an enduring memorial in the
Emily McPherson College of Domestic Eco-
nomy, to which she and her husband gave
£25,000. Through ill-health during the past
12 months the philanthropic lady was unable
to take part in charitable work, but formerly
she was on the committees of various bodies,
and did a great deal of Red Cross work dur-
ing the war days.
Mrs. Arthur Broughton, who passed over
lately at Hamilton, represented Victoria
in inter-State tennis matches before her
marriage, and with her sister, the late Miss
P. Howell, won the women’s doubles cham-
pionship three years in succession.
Mrs. Collier, who had arranged to join
the teaching staff of the Albert-street Con.,
was forced to alter her plans for a lengthy
stay in Melbourne and return to London.
Accompanied by her young daughter Elva,
who combines a voice with good looks, she
will rejoin her husband. There’s a prospect
of grand opera engagements ahead.
Mrs. Edgar, who left at the week-end on
a trip to South Africa with her husband,
the chairman of committees of the Plush
Chamber, will meet three nieces in Cape-
town. The Edgars' tour will take in most of
the chief towns of the Union, and, if pos-
sible, they will go on to Southern Rhodesia.
A rival tea-drinking resort has opened its
doors nearly next door to the Wattle. A
company, headed by a well-known architect,
owns the new venture in Canberra House,
which is named the Berkeley. The wmlls are
tinted in biscuit and blue, and there are
deep blue cui'tains and white, fern-filled
window-boxes. It’s a restful spot; for one
thing, there’s no music—not even a gramo-
phone or a radio. Water-colors and bronze
plaques decorate the walls, and scattered
about the brown-and-blue carpet are tall
pedestals supporting bowls and huge jars of
flowers. The venture, like the Wattle, is in
tune with this section of Little Collins-street
—the abode of dealers in pictures, antiques,
Oriental carpets and rare bric-h-brac.
Ernest Rolls and veteran George Marlow
are going to build their new theatre on the
site of the Green Mill, to the south of the
Yarra, and that’s part of a general tendency
to decentralise entertainment. A skating-
rink, a dance palais, Olympia and the recently
modernised Playhouse already form a little
centre of amusement clustered along the
Yarra. The bulk of theatregoers come into
the city by electric train, and they can get
to these places much more easily than they
can claw T their way along Swanston and
Bourke to the older theatres. The old slan-
der that the Yarra at this point is a smellful
drain still persists, but, as a matter of fact,
it is a very charming stream fringed by beau-
tiful gardens, and its south side is an ideal
site for public recreation.
A call of distress has come from trans-
planted girl workers in Canberra. They are
missing the Melbourne hostels, so Hilda
Tapley Short, the associate secretary of our
Y.W.C.A., is leaving her present job to
pioneer a branch in the Capital City. _ A
modest start will be made with _ a dining-
room and organised recreation, with visions
of a building with living-in accommodation in
the future.
Mrs. Percy Russell, the new president of
the Housewives’ Association, has had con-
siderable experience in buying and catering,
having run a Red Cross kitchen and later a
tea-room in w r ar time.


Oriental Pearls
Specialists in FINE PEARLS
PEARL NECKLACES
Largest Selection in Australasia.
Small Graduated Strands from £lO.
Larger Necklaces from £lOO to £5OOO.
Inspection Cordially Invited.
A selection of Loose Round Pearls ot r meat
Quality is always maintained for Adding
to Customers' own Necklaces.
Mail Inquiries receive Prompt
Attention.
Five per cent. Discount for Cosh
An experienced staff attends
to the Cleaning and Re-
Strinftinfc of PEARL
S. Necklaces on
lit the premises.
\
WT'i * 1
Wm.DRUMMOND6CO.
THE HOUSE FOR FINE PEARLS
344-346 COLLINS ST MELBOURNE
X
vim.w.
SV/
s-a .m
litl
Mi .
If
pff'J
'hJMM
¥
M
%
%^5
-
• AA T <
-■
m JM
IEICHNEP
X
4
THE SURE WA Y TO SLIMNESS
You have longed for the girlish lines of youth. LEICIINER
1001 offers you a simple way to regain them. Merely take a
warm hath to which LEICIINER 1001 has been added, before
retiring. This breaks up the unwanted fatty tissues, because
it activates the cells underlying the fat layers. The effect is
progressive; renewal, of the baths at suitable intervals secures
further reduction.
Obtainable from, your Chemist; or i/6
post free from leading city stores.
LEICHNER 1001
Factory Representatives :
LOTI MANE £ CO., LTD., 26-30 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Restful, quiet and cool —open to the Summer Sea Breezes. Delightfully situated with Private
Beach and Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort—Excellent Cuisine and Service
Spacious Grounds and Garage Accommodation.
Summer Tariff f:om 5 guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines). Management M. E. BURROWS.
SCfTLy SUPPORTED
CURVES
*3
&
EKING NEW BEAIJT»
NEW CEAKM TG
TEE EIGGEE
Each woman’s individual figure charm is
answered in the new designs of Gossard
foundation garments. New designs, new
materials, new elastics are most skillfully
co-ordinated in a group of combinations,
solitaires, step-ins, front lacing corsets ....
so skillfully, indeed, that the moment you
try them on you are convinced they are
designed expressly for your figure.
Ask to See this
New Step'in
Those envied, softly supported curves, the
new charm and figure beauty are instantly
achieved through this new elastic step-in
by Gossard. Its length, fourteen inches,
permits it to easily control the hips .. ♦ ♦
blends the line of the waist, hips and thighs
into one flowing curve.
Worn with it is an uplift bandeau of
French design, made of satin tricot. It
tapers to a narrow back which shows an
insert of soft elastic.
The Canadian H. W. Gossard Co., Ltd.
114-120 Castlereagh Street
SYDNEY, N. S. W.


C2rzs/oc na iic Pioneers.
Kg
I
m
/ a/
K
f sfti^ijgfrr^yg
m.
i
v
4/1
"*m
m
ft,:
m
tWMI
m
m
m
■
m
A
1
>irvN
mm
a£l££s@2lsS^
Strife.
i
Captain McARTHUR
Hardy’s
iiiiif®!
mJSi IUMBT
m.
Ms
NET I PINTG FLUID OZS
-M
sas»S3i
ius* l i3rJs , -SLSv'SE
iff.
■
HARDYS WINES OF TINTARA
CAPT. JOHN MACARTHUR was one of the earliest pioneers of the Colony of New South, Wales, and during the regime of Governor
Phillip established a small flock of merino sheep at Parramatta. . ........
From this small beginning the production of wool has reached its present amazing proportions, and at the present time it is clearly
Droved to be the strongest asset Australia possesses. _ • *
The establishment of Hardy’s vineyards in 1853 places them among the earliest, and Champion Reserve Port is the quintessence of
quality resulting from these years of experience and maturity. . .


s
m
234 f?
ft
m
m
M 0
e&»,
Cguphan sweet drink
seller Cairo-
EGYPT
£AIRO and its wonderful Museum,
packed with treasures of Tutank-
hamen and of the storied past, Gizeh,
with its Pyramids and Sphinx! The
Nile! This name and its myriad
associations run through the whole
fabric of history! What words to
quicken the imagination!
At little cost, travellers by the
Orient Line can avqil themselves
of a Special Excursion to these
scenes of tremendous interest.
And Egypt is only one of the
Orient Line’s several ports of
call on the voyage to England.
ORIENT LINE
Illustrated literature and Fare Lists obtainable from Orient Line Offices or Agencies
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: THE DESERT SONG
(Commencing Saturday).
ROYAL: HIT THE DECK.
CRITERION: YOUNG WOODLEY.
PALACE: THE WRECKER.
WORLD’S GREATEST WOMAN
VIOLINIST,
ERICA MORINI
ERICA MORINI
ERICA MORINI
The wonderful .Viennese genius.
“It is no idle claim that she is the greatest
living woman violinist.”—London Daily Sketch.
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Direction E. J. CARROLL.
SATURDAY, MARCH 30; also APRIL 4, 6 and 9.
Gala Orchestral Concert, Saturday, April 6.
TOWN HALL, MELBOURNE, Commencing April 27.
Rickards* ti v oIT theatres.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
J # C. WILLIAMSON, LTD
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
Commencing Saturday next.
THE VAGABOND KING.
ROYAL:
Commencing Saturday next.
THIS YEAR OF GRACE.
JVJEW COMEDY THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
RUTH NUGENT and ALLAN BUNCE in
APPLESAUCE.
Amusements.
J£ ING ’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
LEON GORDON in
THE FLYING SQUAD.
UOYT'S DE LUX E THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
EVELYN LA YE and HENRY VICTOR in
THE LUCK OF THE NAVY
(British Dominion Film)
AND
PUCILLA MORAN and WILLIAM V. MONO in
NO BABIES ALLOWED
(Cinema Art Film).
Missing Friends.
D E PATRICK GRAHAM, Deceased.—
Will any person knowing the where-
abouts of any relative of PATRICK
GRAHAM, formerly of Tunnack, in Tas-
mania, who died at the New Town Infirmary,
Hobart, on 13th November, 1916, communi-
cate with tbe PUBLIC TRUSTEE, HobartV
‘SWA
FOWHTP&NS
Self-filling type from 17/6.
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
-'' ■
X*
BRITtS
ADE
Perfection
RIUK: RUBBER.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland's
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Their Exes, went to the races at Ascot,
where the grass was green and the day fine.
Red and gold dahlias tied with green rib-
bons decorated the tea and luncheon tables
on the committee-room verandah, where the
vice-regals were fed by the committee. Lady
Goodwin wore black satin with a circular
draped skirt and a hat of ivory and black.
Mrs. Isaac Moore was all in navy. Ella
O’Shea’s beige crepe de Chine was trimmed
in hand hemstitching and embroidery motifs,
and her cloche was of rose pink. Miss
Stanley Chapman chose navy, with bands of
red and mastic at waist and hem. Mrs. A. 11.
Whittingliam’s mist-blue mariette was worn
with a deep blue Baku hat. Joan Bond
came with her, wearing geranium georgette
and a beige-pink cloche. Mrs. J. Aiming
wore draped black mariette with touches of
silver; Herries Forth chose grey and blue;
Audrey Forth was in navy; Mrs. Jack
Fihelly was in biscuit mariette and Chan-
tilly lace, with a small Baku hat; Madge
Cullen wore pink celanese, with a pink felt
hat; Mrs. J. W. Blair’s navy crepe de Chine
had touches of gold and pink, and her beige
hat was trimmed with blue and rose; Enid
Bell was in white and apple-green.
The Goodwins gave a dinner party at
Government House to which the E. T. Bells,
the W. G. Crothers, Mr. and Mrs. C. A.
Morris, the Isaac Moores, the W. J. Hoopers,
Mr. and Mrs. Barnes (of Canning Downs),
the J. J. Powers, the Weatherlakcs, Mrs.
Arthur Clarke, Enid Bell, Eileen Moore, Sir
Alan Anderson, Willie Glasson and Mr.
Anderson were bidden. Sir Alan undersoil
and Mr. and Mrs. J. 11. S. Barnes are
staying at Government House.
The Mayor opened the season of the new
Annerley Bowling Club at Yeronga Park
under blue skies. Palms surround the
pavilion, which was dressed up in flags and
greenery. Alderman and Mrs. Stimpson, she
in navy blue crepe de Chine, received the
guests. Mrs. Jolly wore beige mariette, and
she was handed a bunch of yellow blooms
tied with navy and orange, the club colors.
Yellow flowers, with narrow yellow and blue
streamers, decorated the tea tables in the
pavilion and on the lawn, and a band played.
“Florodora,” by the Brisbane Operatic
Society, had its opening night on the same
day. Mrs. S. B. Harris played Dolores
in a Spanish costume, and later in a rose-
pink evening frock. Pat McOnigly wore
buttercup with touches of rose, mauve and
blue. Dorothy Webster was chiefly remark-
able for her pretty dancing. Flowers and
gifts were handed up to the performers.
Toe H will benefit by the week’s run of the
piece.
At the Exhibition Concert Hall an Irish
concert was held, the Nundah Corpus Christi
choir contributing the first item. Boys from
the Roman Catholic schools gave old -Irish
folk dances. Archbishop Duliig and a num-
ber of priests were present.
The Governor had Fay Tayloor, the racing
motorist, to afternoon tea, and she finished
up the evening as Nellie Bramley’s guest
at the Theatre Royal, the offering being “The
Lion and the Mouse,” in which some delight-
ful gowns figure. Miss Bramley’s sister,
Margaret A dele, is coming on famously as
a character actress.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The James Murrays departed in the. Maloja
for a two-years’ trip to the Cold Country,
and bade farewell to their friends over tea-
cups at Hadley’s a few days previously.
The lounge was gay with gladioli and bella-
donna lilies and there were about 60 guests.
Mrs. Murray was in black georgette with
silver kid motifs surrounded by pinky-beige
embroidery. Margaret O’Grady wore leaf-
brown wool crepe, with a small liat in two
shades of brown. Mrs. G. F. Hyde and Mrs.
W. A. Mackay (Sydney) were in the throng.
This bright
little face be-
longs to
Wanda, only
chick of the
L. F. Picsses,
of Sandy Bay.
She has dis-
tinguished her-
self by win-
ning quite re-
cen 11 y the
sen i o r gold
medal for elo-
cution in tm.'
Trinity College
(London)
exams., and
has left the
Speck to finish
her education
'n Melbourne.
She is a pupil
of Olive Wil-
ton.
The Women Graduates spread tea-
cloth" at the Imperial for Rita Lowenstein,
new lecturer in Maths, at the Uni., by way
or Welcoming her to. her new surroundings.
Premier McPhee’s wife, who is the president
of the association, received the guests, among
whom were the Lewis lady, Dr. Christine
Walch and Mrs. Vincent.
A. J. A illiers, well known in the literary
world, and Ronald Walker, a budding sprig
of the tree of journalism, have a long sea
voyage ahead of them. They are off to the
Gold Country in the Finnish ship, Grace
Harwar, round the Horn, and have con-
tracted to make movies of incidents on the
voyage in British film interests. They were
farewelled at Hadley’s by the members of the
Tas. district of the A.J.A.
The Art Theatre players, with Beresford
Fowler as actor-manager, opened their
Hobart season with Galsworthy’s “Windows”
and a Grand Guignol farce which combin'd
fun with a grim touch of tragedy. His Ex.
and party were present on the opening night,
and the house was well filled.
Miss Gellion (Melbourne) is renewing
acquaintance with old friends in the Speck,
having come over with her niece, Mrs.
Thompson, who, with her husband and
young family, is rusticating at Ferntree and
Brown’s River.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
The Repertory Club will miss this talented
little lass, who sailed oversea in the Otranto
three or four
hours after she
had become
Mrs. John B.
Marco. A s
Moyra Tivey
her taste for
elocution, fos-
tered at Too-
rak College.
Melbourne, de-
veloped into a
flair for
amateur theat-
ricals. T h e
part of Louka
in “Arms and
the Man” was
among her
cleverest inter-
pretations. Mr.
Marco, whose
profession is
the buying of
pearls, will
make a home for his bride in Paris.
Guests from Perth, as well as from all
over the south-west, congregated at Beverley
for the marriage of Ethel Fisher and Hugh
Norman. The bride’s gown was of parch-
ment satin, cut on period lines with long,
tight-fitting sleeves, a skirt just above the
ankles in the front and a girdle of silver.
The veil, of exquisite old Limerick lace, was
lent by the bridegroom’s mother. Bride's
sister May was attendant ’maid. Folds of
chiffon, pale as a primula, formed the cor-
sage of her frock and shaded into a deeper
pink for the fluted skirt. A monster wedding-
bell and a silver slipper sheltered the cake-
cutting at the home of the bride’s people.
After months of pictures and vaudeville
grand opera has been occupying the stage
of Ilis The Filippini co. has
produced shows well worth attending. “Cav-
alleria Kusticana” and “I Pagliacci” were
presented on the opening night. Youthful
Lorna Sidney-Smith, w T ho is still at an age
where most girls are commencing singing
lessons, covered herself with glory with her
portrayals of Santuzza and Ncdda. “Rigo-
letto” and “La Trayiata” were also played
during the week. Half-proceeds for the sea-
son go to the hospitals.
On a recent afternoon a committee, headed
by Dr. Jull as president and Mrs. Wliitfeld
as vice-president, gathered in a nice little
nest-egg for the proposed women’s college
of the Uni. There was bridge in the main
lecture hall of the engineering school and
tennis on the adjoining courts, though rain
caused many of the raoquet-wielders to
abandon their sport for cards.
A home for sub-normal boys has been
opened on the banks of the Canning River.
It is Casteldare, farm and training school.
Run on cottage-homes lines, it is under the
wing of the Christian Brothers.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
An early flash of autumn (since retired
in favor of a resuscitated summer) brought
out tweeds, furs and snug hats for the Port
Adelaide Racing Club’s meeting at Chelten-
ham—the hats of unvarying closeness and
varying success. On the younger set they
were charming, but for the not-so-young they
proved a snare in more than one instance.
Polo has been our chief distraction —
excellent games but smallish attendances,
and entertaining mostly of the informal
variety. Mr. and Mrs. Barf Smith gave a
tea on Barr Smith Cup day, when the
Governor was one of the keenest onlookers,
and there was a dance at the Glenelg Palais
as a prelude to a gymkhana the following
day. There have been dinners in plenty,
too, a good many of them with Frank Downer
as host at his Burnside home.
There has been a wedding at Scots’ Kirk,
where Col. Paul’s only daughter, Edith, pro-
mised obedience to Donald Smith, of Yaok-
andandan, Clare. The wedding garment was
beige georgette, topped by a Velour hat with
a dash of kingfisher blue. Mrs. Angas John-
son was hostess at the subsequent tea-
drinking at the South, and her sister, Mrs.
Dashwood, was matron of honor.
From Colombo comes news of the Starling-
White wedding—the bride a daughter of
John White, of Unley Park, and the bride-
groom a planter from the Ceylon hill-
country. Mr. White went with his daughter
to give her away, and her sister, in befrilled
pink georgette, was bridesmaid. The wedding
dress was all honiton lace and satin, and
there was a hint of pink in the bouquet.
Dr. C. 11. Souter, of Adelaide, a regular
and valued Bulletin contributor, has re-
ceived from Queen Mary’s secretary—Aus-
tralia’s “Better Not” Wallington of long ago
—a letter of thanks for his lyric, “Roses
for the King.” It -was based on a cabled
incident at an early stage of the King's
illness and was set to music by the pianist-
composer, Mrs. Con Daly, of Melbourne.
Boosey and Co. have accepted it for publica-
tion in London.
The Hunt Club has lost its secretary,
popular Arthur Laughton, who has held the
job since ’O9. Irvine Wald, one of the club’s
riding members, takes his place.
The hills have few more ardent devotees
than Lady Hore-Ruthven, who declared at
the Mount Lofty Show that she never tired
of their beauty and of the wonderful hill
gardens. The show was one of the best there
has been, drought notwithstanding.
Her Ex. opened the gift tea for Hie
Mothers and Babies’ Health Centre pro-
moted by the Mawson lady, Mrs. Nanier
Birks and Mrs. Lavington Bonython.


&
£
r
a
K
tJ'.,
JvX'X.'
BJ
S 3
■
xo
m
m
W
,>"
&s
Cful
o<J
r-C- > s&z*
'XX?
«ss'-.<3
a <^w
::x
>. '\ \\
- ,
- -~ J?-
~<L
th
.--
\\\\
w
adoption of the most modern
methods and equipment, progres-
sively improved by close co-operation
and exchange of ideas with the world’s
largest body builder, enables Holden’s
now to build motor bodies in Australia
equal in quality to any in the world.
To mark this achievement the new
nameplate introduced in this advertise-
ment has been adopted. The design
symbolizes distinctiveness, strength and
beauty, and will in future, be found on
every body built by Holden’s.
Further advertisements will tell why
it pays to choose a Holden equipped
car —Watch jor them.
ADELAIDE,' MELBOU
MOTOR BO DY BUILDERS
RNE, SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
■nBBHBm


A wonderful
body builder
sdf
is always
Fresh & pure
*
In 4 sizes
or ell Chemists & Store*
EVERY BLEMISH
REMOVED IN A FEW DAYS.
I will tell every reader of this paper how
FREE.
YOUR COMPLEXION MAKES
OR MARS YOUR APPEARANCE-
Miss Grace Duncan, former actress, now offers to tell men
and women who are interested in the matter of the most
remarkable complexion treatment ever known. Stubborn
cases have been cured that baffled beauty-specialists for
years. You have never in all your life used or heard of anything like it. Makes
muddy complexions, red spots, pimples, blackheads, freckles, eruptions vanish. No
cream, lotion, enamel, salve, plaster, bandage, mask, massage, diet or apparatus,
nothing to swallow. It doesn’t matter whether or not your complexion is a “fright,”
whether you face is full of muddy spots, peppery blackheads, embarrassing pimples
and eruptions, or whether your skin is rough and “porey,” and you’ve tried almost
everything under the sun to get rid of the blemishes. This treatment in just a few days
removes blemishes and beautifies your skin in a marvellous way. You look, years
younger. _lt gives the skin the bloom and tint of purity of a freshly-blown rose. In a
short while you can be the subject of admiration by all your friends, no matter what
your age or condition of health. There is nothing to wear, nothing to take internally.
Your face,. even arms, hands, shoulders, are beautiful beyond your fondest dreams
All this Miss Duncan will absolutely prove to you within a few days. This treatment
is absolutely harmless to the most delicate skin and very pleasant to use. No change
in.your mode of living necessary. A few minutes daily does it. To every reader of
this paper Miss Grace Duncan will give full details of this really astonishing treatment.
Le'; her show you. You risk nothing. Send three penny stamps for postage and your
name and address to Miss Duncan, who will give you full details by return mail.
MISS GRACE DUNCAN (Suit B 7), 195 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
m
THE
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Price 3d.
is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co*,
214 George Street, Sydney.
RUNNIN THE EASTING DOWN
BY WGRAEME-HOLDER
WELL, that’s over.
There are few things which get
on a fellow’s nerves like a burial at
sea—that horrible scratching of sliding
canvas, the decided splash, the moment of
tense silence and the lap of the ripples
against the ship’s side.
Poor old Weatherfield! He was a deccut
sort of chap. I quite took to him from the
time we left Southampton. One of the bluff
and hearty kind, no apparent worries or
cares, smiling from dawn till dark, no trouble
with his digestive apparatus, no travelling
companions—just a happy-go-lucky bachelor
off to make a fortune in Australia as per
the advertisements.
And this is as far as he got. Murdered
and dumped over the side somewhere between
the Cape and the Crozets! Well, he went
suddenly and as near painlessly as makes
no matter; and when my turn comes I hope
1 won’t know what hit me.
If you’ve ever “run your easting down”
in a boat whose skipper, owing to nervous-
ness or any other brand of whisky, prefers
to consort with icebergs ’way down in the
fifties to tramping along the recognised high-
ways where he might meet someone who
knows him, you will understand why we
were all below in the saloon crowding the
inadequate radiator last night.
We were a very mixed lot —all sorts, sizes
and breeds; English and American mostly,
but enough Continental representatives to
keep us busy airing our knowledge of modern
languages; but still we mixed and argued on
everything from finance to fried fish. And
we could argue, believe me! The English
may have a whole lot of insular reserve when
they are posing before the world as a superior
race, but start them on a pet subject and
they make noise enough.
Weatherfield was like that. I met him
first at a little hotel the night before we left
England. He was holding forth on small
holdings to some delegates to an agricultural
conference. Personally I know as much
about small holdings as I do about the flora
of the Yukon, but I like to be where there
is a noise. I liked the way he bullied the
farmers who owned more acres than he
thought they were justly entitled to by all
the laws of humanity; I liked his manner—
that absolutely-bet-your-life sort of thing. I
liked his size. So I butted in and agreed
with everything he said. It pays to agree
with anybody who smokes real cigars and
talks as though he owns half the earth; an I
before we had finished three bottles of his
Dry Monopole we knew all about each other
except who we were.
And I must say that, with him as a com-
panion, the voyage until yesterday almost
lived up to the optimistic advertisements of
the shipping company: plenty of fresh air—
or ozone or whatever it is—beautiful weather
and no bounce to speak of in the boat; and I
had won quite a tidy sum at poker. I’m
usually lucky at poker; but I get a lot more
practice than most people. Then last night
we hit the “trades” good and hard, and it’s,
only horse-sense to prefer a comfortable arm-
chair which is trained to the motion and
knows how to stay put to slithering around
a wet top-deck and bumping the hardware
or doing a Blondin act On a narrow strip
of carpet.
Weatherfield occupied the centre chair —
naturally—l was on one end of the semi-
circle, and a meditative Italian was on the
other end, while somewhere in the arc of
about twenty others a long-haired commer-
cial traveller with a dash of the Arab in
him had just finished a perfumed romance
of the Argonne—wherever that is—and we
were all feeling sadly sentimental, We
were gazing at the radiator and sighing in-
termittently over our blighted affections when
Weatherfield gave an impatient heave and
snorted something about votes for women.
He sat up and pointed a finger at the Italian.
“I’ll tell a little story which should in-
terest you, signor,” lie said abruptly.
The Italian turned a pensive gaze upon
him and smiled as though it hurt him.
“I shall be charmed, Mr. Weatherfield,”,
he said in perfect English, and I noticed
that his black eyes wandered all over the
big Englishman and came to
abrupt rest on his shirt-
front; and if Italians can
pale then I am willing to
swear that this one paled
suddenly all over. I blame
myself that I did not heed
the warning.
“This happened in a little
place called Veccio, in the
North of Italy,” began Wea-
therfield ; and it was my
turn to sit up and take.
notice—he had never mentioned a visit to
Italy in any of our many conversations on
our. travels, and I am not unfamiliar with
Veccio.
“Veccio is one of those little places built
on Rafferty rules where you can jump from
one balcony to the one on the opposite side
of the street, and the streets themselves are
really wide steps. No excitement in the place
except when the bell rings for early mass
and the lady of the house bustles about and
disturbs your beauty sleep. But it staged a
hectic story a few years ago which has all
the elements of the best detective fiction. At
that time the village priest was a Father
Matteo, a man somewhere in his thirties, be-
loved of his flock, eager to do his best for
his Maker and his fellow-man, fond of good
living and ambitious.”
The Italian half rose from his chair as
though he would leave the party, but appa-
rently thought better of it and sat down
again with a muttered apology Something
about the man was vaguely familiar; I could
almost believe that I had met him before.
Weatherfield apparently did not notice the
interruption.
“Ambition seems to have been the only
fault attributed to Father Matteo, but it
"The Italian whipped a hand to the back of his neck, and a blue flash marked the
knife as it sped straight to Weather field’s heart.”
was condoned by his unfailing care of the
sick and the poor, for he was one of the
world’s most accomplished cadgers when it
was a question of providing material relief
in Veccio ; the wealthy tourist who occasion-
ally drifted into the place saw more heart-
rending poverty and sickness in the little
town under the guidance of the good Father
than he had seen in all the rest of Italy,
and if he was not moved to dispense a little
charity there was something radically wrong
with his heart.
“Of the wealthier class of the neighbor-
hood there was one man in particular who
was favored above the rest with Father
Matteo’s importunities—a rheumy old fellow
who lived in a fine old house a little way
from the town, and who was to all intents
and purposes a hermit. Father Matteo was
reputed to be the only man who had ever
raised a bean from the old chap, and although
the priest extolled his generosity and held
him up as a shining example to other folks who
were in a position to give alms, the general
opinion was that he was the greatest miser
who ever mised. The old chap argued that
lie was a Frenchman, anyhow, and had no
call to love Italians.
“Well, as you know, every now and then
a religious festa happens in these Italian
towns—some saint gets a day of homage and
prayer all to himself, and everybody shuts
up shop and turns but to see the church
procession. For the life of me I can’t re-
member which particular saint was being
honored on the day of these surprising
events”
“San Antonio,” prompted the Italian with
decision. “Anthony.”
We all looked at the interrupter, and I
think most of us sensed an unusual atmo-
sphere.
“I believe you’re right,” assented Weatlier-
tield ; “Anthony it was.” He paused with
his pipe half-way to his lips as a thought
occurred to him. “I say, you know about
this business?”
“Something of it —yes,” replied the Italian
quietly, fingering his collar as though it was
unusually tight.
“Then you’ll be able to corroborate the
yarn in case some of those heathen are in-
clined to suspect my veracity,” commented
the other lightly. “Well, as was usual on
such occasions, the main attraction of the
procession was an ofligy of the saint —An-
thony—carried on a gaily-decorated platform
on the shoulders of four men. The figure
itself wasn’t a large affair —it stood
about 30 inches high—and was an _ exquisite
piece of modelling in painted bronze.
During its annual tour through the
streets it was adorned with jewels,
lent for the occasion by a devout con-
gregation, jewels ranging from trumpery
brooches to diamond necklaces, and for this
day at least it was worth many times its
weight in gold.
“It was during the saint’s progress through
one of those picturesque, uncomfortable
cobbled streets which rise in a series of
steps that Veccio received the shock of its
life. The censers were swinging up the hill,
the choristers were chanting the praises of
the saint, three high church dignitaries fol-
lowed in the shade of a gorgeous canopy,
more choristers, more censers, everything en-
veloped in an atmosphere of religious devo-
tion as the saint appeared around the bend
half-way up the hill; spectators crossed
themselves and knelt in the doorways, flower-
petals fell from upper windows and bal-
conies, when suddenly the saint leapt from
his platform and disappeared over the house-
tops in the arms of a man who had adroitly
lassoed him from a roof!
“I leave you to imagine the scene. The
sudden hush when the people thought them-
selves favored with a Divine manifestation
and the howl of frenzy when the thief waved
his hat ironically and bowed to the gaping
bearers. It wasn’t very long before the door
of the house was smashed in and an angry
mob overran every roof in the street; but
St. Anthony and his abductor had completely
disappeared.
“There were great doings during the next
day or two; every house was searched, all
the local bad men were laid by the heels,
police and priests came from all the neigh-
boring towns, a cardinal arrived from Home,
tourists drifted around and business flour-
ished exceedingly. Prayers were said in
the church from morning till night—mainly
by those who had lent their treasures to An-
thony—and the trade in tapers boomed; but
the saint remained in retirement.
“As Saint Anthony’s principal attribute is
the restoring of lost articles it was rather
an awkward predicament for Holy Church.
The people’s faith would wilt somewhat if
the saint were unable to find himself, and
it was to Anthony’s ‘finding’ ability that
Father Matteo pinned his faith. He con-
tinually called upon the saint to punish
the evil-doer and to return to his own quiet
niche, and I suppose that it was by a con-
stant iteration of this prayer that he finally
became convinced that one fine morning he
would discover the effigy in its accustomed
place and its ravisher dead upon the altar
steps. Anyhow, he certainly blossomed as a
prophet and imparted a measure of comfort
to the mourning multitude.”
Weatherfield paused to search for a match
to rekindle his pipe, and the curious whist-
ling breath of the Italian prompted his curi-
osity. He looked inquiringly at him —as did
the rest of us—and the intensity with which
the Italian gazed at Weatherficld’s shirt-
front was such that we all did likewise, and
the Englishman’s hand went to his tie in
a nervous gesture.
“What’s the matter with me?” he inquired
belligerently, and I managed to pull a laugb
which seemed to ease the tension.
“Get on with it, Bob,” I urged; “can’t
you see you’ve got us all jumpy?”
Weatherfield bent a suspicious glance
upon me, then proceeded with his pipe-light-
ing and his story.
“For over two months nothing happened.
The town returned to normal —went to sleep
again—Father Matteo was ( discredited as a
budding Elijah,
the robbed ones
grew resigned or
resentful, the
police offered re-
wards, even the
old hermit came
a little way out
of his hole and
offered quite a
round sum for
the restoration
of the saint —
much to the
surprise of
Father Matteo
and to the dis-
taste of the com-
munity at large.
“Then, one
mi 1 d evening,
just at dusk,
things com-
menced to hap-
pen. The church
had been nrac-
tically deserted all day on account of some
‘fair’ across the river to which all Veccio
had drifted, and it was Mother Ciccini’s
desire for relief from adipose tissue which
impelled her to wheeze into the church to
state her case to her patron saint —and
fall over the body of a man on the altar
steps ! And the saint—Saint Anthony—was
back in his niche!
“When the old lady saw what she was
looking at, her adipose tissue took nothing
from her activity, and within the space of
ten minufes all Veccio reverenced Father
Matteo as the prophet infallible. Saint An-
thony had returned, bringing all the jewels
with him, and had destroyed the thief by
the simple method of dropping a sizeable
piece of the stone architrave of the chancel
arch upon his head, crushing it to an un-
recognisable pulp!
“It was all most mysterious and theopathi-
cally satisfying to Veccio, and Father Matteo
made the most of it. Within half an hour
of the discovery of the body he harangued
his flock from the chancel steps, and in the
gathering darkness loomed before them the
embodiment of all spiritual things. lie up-
braided them gently for their lack of faith,
(Continued on page 53.)


Tungstone House-Lighting Plante Batteries 36-10,000 a h
For Central Station—Works—Cinema—Yacht—Train.
For the First time in the Wcrld’s History of Plante Plate Casting, Tungstone’s Plante
Positive and Box Negative Plates are High-Pressure Machine Die-Cast in a Fixed Mould.
Up to the present, the Plante Plates or Car Pasted Type of all the World’s makers are Cast
by the uncertain method of Hand Pouring the Metal into movable moulds without Pressure.
Tungstone Deeper Cast Lammels and more Lateral Current-Distribution Ribs increase
the superficial area of the Positive Plante Plate by more than Ten Times.
The Lammels and Current-Distribution Ribs are guaranteed to be cast more accurately and solidly, in regular and
symmetrical line, free from broken, split or distorted Sections, thus permitting Peroxide to form deeply down; to
grow generously and hold tenaciously. Guaranteeing even and simultaneous discharge from full surfaces of all plates.
Tungstone House Lighting Batteries NO CORROSION AT INTER-CELL CONNECTIONS.
Fitted with Patented Tungstone Permanently Ebonlxed and Insulated Nuts and Bolts which the Acid cannot Attack or Corrode.
Figures point to Increased
Metal Bars In Plate
Design and Construction
Securing Longer Life and
Higher Capacity.
Tungstone’s Strengthened Plate. Longer Life.
NO WEAK METAL SPOTS IN TUNGSTONE POSITIVE PLATE.
More Metal Forced into any given Plate Area with an evenness
of Metal Distribution, Homogeneity and Reliability, producing a
Positive Plate that is entirely free from indiscernible blow-holes,
invisible cracks or splits, no burnt face surface areas or dross.
Increased rigidity of Positive Plate Structure absolutely secured
by the extra specially strong internal Conducting Bars. See Zhw ation
The increased stiffness of the Plates will withstand the stresses
of varying Peak Loads, Excessive Charges and Discharges
Certain preventative against early Plate Buckling. fic
THE POSITIVE PLATE WORKING LIFE CONSIDERABLY INCREASED.
INTERNAL
STRENGTHENING
RIB
Ik
1
P
IP
W
11P
Upkeep Costs
considerably reduced.
Exceptional High
Capacity Storage.
Very Low Internal
Plate stresses.
Uniformity of Charge
and Discharge on All
Surfaces. No Rapid
Voltage Drop at
End of Discharge.
FIG.S
Only four continuous hours charge completes Works First Partial
Charge of any Tungstone Plante or Car Battery from 6 to 10,000 amps.
Plante can be immediately discharged for Light ONLY during First Charge.
WORLD’S REVOLUTION IN RATTERY PRACTICE. SAVING ALL OVERTIME AND NIGHT SHIFTS.
Tungstone’s Works First Partial Charge Entirely Prevents Sulphation and Damage to Plate «n First Charge
All other Makers’ Box Negative Plates by the necessity of an exceptionally Long First Charge, always create Germs of Sulphation.
Excessive portions of Active Material become permanently sulphated, which cannot be regenerated by subsequent re-charges. Sulphation
is the cause of decreased capacity and amp. hour efficiency, and considerably shortens Working Life of Plate. All other Makers’ Box
Negatives at end of discharge are 1.85 —a certain point that always stimulates Sulphation. Tungstone’s end of discharge is the Safe Point of 1.93.
Tungstone’s exclusive Works processes entirely prevent internal Sulphation to start or become a permanent part of the Active
Material. The Active Material is permanently converted into Pure Lead, no fixed patches of Sulphation germs are internally created.
A nominal amount is present, but it is not malignant and on a short re-charge is converted into Pure Lead.
Tungstone’s Partial First Charge of all Car and Plante Plates at Works fixes the Positive Plate with a thoroughly adherent and
homogeneous coating of lead peroxide which generously forms on whole Plate surfaces. With Security and Safety the Plate can be completely
charged and discharged at exceptionally high rates without shedding of active material, in the extremely short period o 1 Four Continuous Hours.
Why other Makers 9 Box Negative Plates Continually Lose Capacity making Shorter Working Life
mmk
mm
Patented and Registered Trade Mark in the
Chief Countries of the World,
Tungstone Two Halves of the Pure Lead Perforated Gauze Sheets, by High-Pressure Machine Die-Casting
are Riveted on both sides INTO the four edges of the Frame.
Simultaneously they are also permanently fixed UNDER the four main ribs
of the two Plate Faces.
By Tungstone’s original and exclusive system of construction the two Gauze Sheets are immovable and
an integral part of the completed Plate. This perfect unison ensures permanent metallic contact with the
Active Material, increasing the Capacity Efficiency, also securing Longer Plate Life.
Tungstone Box Negative Gauzes cannot Part from Frames
at the EDGES or SURFACES, therefore the Paste cannot fall out to create a destructive Short
Circuit or gradual Loss of Capacity. Prolonged laboratory research has produced a Negative
Paste free from sulphation with high porosity which does not harden or lose itsspongy propertiesand
harmoniously works throughout its active life in practical scientific balance with the Positive Plate.
All the World’s Makers (except Tungstone) Only Lay
the two Box Negative Gauzes on the Plate Faces.
They are not permanently fixed into the four edges on both sides of the frame.
This serious defect in all other makes of Box Negative Plates permits the Paste
to freely and continually drop out, creating Loss of Capacity, which demands
frequent Re-charging and earlier Re-plating.
The constant dropping out of the Paste is the main cause of frequent breakdowns of All other
Makers’ Batteries, also the basic source of reduced capacity and shorter Plate Life. Negative Paste
being Metallic, in falling out it invariably causes an immediate short by touching the Positive, which
always completely destroys a Plante Battery.
BRITISH EMPIRE LEAD USED IN ALL TUNGSTONE CAR AND HOUSE LIGHTING BATTERIES.
SYDNEY: A. J. Dawson, M.1.A.E.. Sales and Service, 91 William Street (Tel., FL2084).
BRISBANE: Brisbane Cars and Tractors, Ltd., Wickham Street.
MELBOURNE: Hocking & Hadden Pty., Ltd., 208 Latrobe Street.
C.T.P. 42.


y-\!
7
y
i
M
>:v<.
Happy Memories
charming fun-filled
that Hilda
Cowham has designed for
Shelleys makes children’s
mealtimes merry: not a baby
but will laugh at it! And
when the children of to-day
recall the jolly breakfasts
and tea-times in the old nur-
sery, mug and milk jug, plate
and saucer each with a joke
in it will not be least among
their happy memories.
Ask ro see rue latsst
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
• China
Nursery V/are
/y Lucie Attweli
t, Hilda Cowham
Domestic Wars
Jelly Moulds
IN <A»I Of
onrAiMiNo
The.
MJE
Si
Everybody
needs a Light POSTFBE «
(Special Trade
terms)
2s.
MOD'S AGENCY. BRISBANE
Estab 1915 (Dept 3)
The Great
Match
Substitute
X
You can Wipe the Mort-
gage Off your House.
Possess Insurance, and effect a
saving in cost. Particulars of this
Bound business investment from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
OJC GUYATTS.
BROOKS
APPLIANCE
FOR RUPTURE
THE greatest dis-
covery and invent-
ion of the century—
Brooks appliance affords
ample comfort; is light, ;
cool, comfortable and
clean. Wearer is able
to work, play and rest
without trouble or inconvenience.
GUY ATT & CO. Dept. B.
257a George Street, Sydney.
sd
FOR ALL SPORT
BUY
THE SPORTING GLOBE
The Leading Australian Authority with the largest
staff of Sporting Experts and Special Representatives
in all States. The staff includes:—
“MUSKET” The Turf
“BAIL” Cricket
W. S. SIMULAXI) Football
PAT O’HARA WOOD Tennis
J. J. MAIIER Cycling
J. M. DII.LON Golf
A. L. DOB IDE Rowing
TOM MORLEY Coursing
MAURIE COLLINS Bowls
11. C. BROOKE Yachting
New South Wales edition available
every Thursday, price 3d.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854-
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
If your sales in Victoria have not reached
the high level which the quality and price of
your products demand, include
“THE AGE”
in future allocations for the State. By this
means your sales message will enter the homes
and offices of
123,533
daily subscribers
who have confidence in the publication which
for 74 years has been the BUSINESS BUILDER
that discriminate advertisers have long esteemed
and valued.
“THE AGE” PUBLISHES OVER
1,000,000 ADVERTISEMENTS
ANNUALLY.
Advertising Kates on application to [he principal
Service Agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
PERCY MARKS,
JEWELLER ANT) LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emeralds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
jV 3SriHCAT/o, V
/
/
Actual
Size
The complete satisfaction, that
only perfection brings, more
than justifies the fastidiousness
that will insist on—
“la corona*
HALF-A-C ORONA
£
In Days of Old
White hair was
all the vogue.
In modern days
grey or white
hair is consid-
ered a sign of
appr o a c h i n g
age.
It is NOT “THE
THING.”
All traces of Grey can readily be removed
by an application of
Dr. Allen’s (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
Sold at all Chemists and Stores.
Harmless, easy
to apply, can-
not be detected
Australian Agents:
DUERDIN AND
SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street,
Melbourne.
sfd
forgave them nobly for the suspicions they
had entertained of his veracity, and his
masterly peroration brought them m tears
to their knees, eager to atone for the doubts
they had experienced ; so that when at last
he intimated that the progress of Saint An-
thony would be repeated in the streets ot
Veccio on the morrow he was hard put to it
to control the rush of penitents who sought
to show their renewed faith in the saint
by trusting him with the rest of their valu-
ables. .
“Until the early hours of the morning they
came, and the effigy was almost hidden under
the jewelled wealth of Veccio, while Father
Matteo kept faithful tally and acknowledged
each loan with a murmured blessing; and
all the time the local policeman was mea-
suring distances, climbing ladders, asking
questions and watching the crowd. _ Appa-
rently he was the only man in Veccio who
did not recognise Saint Anthony s right to
dispense summary justice.
“The procession was set for eleven o’clock
on the following morning, and long before
that hour the streets were lined with people.
The choristers and church dignitaries waited
patiently in the church, the cardinal made
a dramatic reappearance, a few strange
police officials moved importantly about; and
at twelve o’clock Veccio was restless. Some-
thing had gone wrong again—neither Saint
Anthony nor Father Matteo had made their
appearance!
“By one o’clock the place was in a state
bordering on hysteria; nobody knew any-
thing, and cardinal, police and choristers
seemed to be milling around in the church
like a lot of restive cattle. About the middle
of the afternoon tin; editor, chief reporter,
compositor and publisher of the local weekly
—one Lucien Gardi —broke away from the
church, tore down the street to his office and
got out the ‘extra’ of his life. I’d bet he
made quite a nest-egg out of it. It appeared
that all the jewels had completely disappeared
and that the priest was in custody for
murder!”
A sharp cry broke from the Italian oppo-
site. We all started and looked at him with
astonishment and curiosity. His lips were
trembling, his nostrils quivered, his eyes
gleamed balefully, he seemed to be struggling
against an insane .frenzy in a desire to appear
calm, while his hands fumbled with a pocket-
wallet. I experienced a queer contraction
of the heart which may have been plain fear
as I realised that his face ipas curiously
familiar, and I was thankful for the slight
beard and full moustache which I had care-
fully cultivated during the past year or two.
But all his attention was for Weathetfield
and Weatherfield’s shirt-front. When he
spoke it was scarcely above a whisper—and
a darned uncomfortable whisper it was.
“By a remarkable coincidence,” he said
in his faultless English, “I have here a copy
of the ‘extra’ of which our friend speaks.”
And he carefully drew from the wallet a
soiled piece of newsprint which threatened to
fall to pieces in his hands.
Weatherfield stared in open : mouthed aston-
ishment, and the rest of us made vague noises
indicative of our profound interest.
“If I might be permitted to translate” ——
“Go right ahead,” urged Weatherfield
heartily; then he beamed upon us with the
pride of a raconteur who is handed a bouquet
when he had expected raspberries.
The Italian, translating as he went along,
and speaking in a strained voice, read us
the “extra.” It went something like this:
“Gabrielle Montrenard, the infamous card-sharper
and international swindler, was arrested this after-
noon at the church of Santa Genevieve, Veccio, and
formally charged wih the theft of the jewels lent for
the procession of Saint Anthony, and the murder of
Father Matteo.”
Here the Italian paused long enough to shoot
a malevolent glance at Weatherfield, who was
gazing at the radiator and thoroughly en-
joying himself.
“It appears that Montrenard has been living in
retirement near Veccio in the guise of a recluse with
miserly propensities
“The old Frenchman?” exclaimed one of
the passengers brightly.
The Italian nodded.
“Montrenard in ordinary guise bears a striking
resemblance to the late Father Matteo, and no doubt
it was this likeness which prompted the daring
outrages. Not satisfied with the haul made on the
occasion of his daring theft in the street, Montrenard
took advantage of the ill-advised prophecy of leather
Matteo to put into effect a crime which must stagger
the whole of Italy. He chose a favorable time to
restore the effigy of the saint to its niche, came
upon Father Matteo from behind, when our beloved
priest was absorbed in the contemplation of the
apparent miracle, and struck him down; thereafter
loosening the block from the chancel architrave and
making it appear that it was by this agency alone
that Father Matteo was destroyed. To change cloth-
ing with the dead priest and to appear in his stead
in the gloom of the church at evening, to exercise
his natural gift of oratory to play upon the suscepti-
bilities of Veccio in order to extort further articles of
value, are all in keeping with the man’s reputation
for cold-blooded callousness and devilish ingenuity
which have made him the most-feared scoundrel in
Europe. If Father Matteo’s death has been instru-
mental in bringing this ghoul to justice he has not
died in vain.”
With ostentatious deliberation, the Italian
folded the “extra,” replaced it in bis wallet
and rose to bis feet while we watched him
in silence.
“Fine!” commented the man next to me.
“And did they hang him or otherwise exter-
minate him?”
“I don't think they did,” replied Weather-
field in hesitating doubt. “If I remember
rightly”
“It is inconceivable that, knowing the rest
of the story so well, Mr. Weatherfield should
be unaware that Montrenard escaped,” said
the Italian; and there was distinct menace
in his tones.
Weatherfield rose in sudden anger. “What
are you trying to suggest?” he demanded
truculently. “You’ve been favoring me with
a bloodthirsty regard ever since I started the
yarn. If you have anything to say, say it!”
The Italian backed a little until he stood
against the bulkhead.
“Father Matteo was my brother,” he said
very softly.
I think we all sensed a tragedy, for his
face was now distorted with undisguised fury.
Weatherfield grunted and commenced an
apology—evidently he had not treated the
dead priest’s memory with sufficient respect,
but who would have expected a situation like
this?
“I’m sorry if I”
“The jewels were never found!” The
Italian’s voice was a scream. “And my
brother lies unavenged!”
By this time we were all on our feet won-
dering what it was all about. Weatherfield
was looking foolishly first at one of us, then
another, and seemed to be repressing a desire
to laugh.
“What’s the matter with the man?” he in-
quired at last.
The Italian pointed an accusing finger at
Weatherfield, and, with a Latin’s sense of
the melodramatic, struck an attitude and said
his piece.
“The pin which you wear in your tie, Mr.
Weatherfield, is the same which held the
vesture of Saint Anthony in Vc-ccio! You
are Gabrielle Montrenard!”
Weatherfield’s hand went to his tie, his
eyes goggled and he made a choking sound.
“Me?” he said incredulously. ‘‘Me?” Then
as the charge got home, he made a step for-
ward. “Why, you little rat”
We hadn’t a hope of preventing it. The
Italian whipped a hand to the back of his
neck, and a blue flash marked the knife as
it sped straight to Weatherfield’s heart.
We sat on the fellow quick and lively, but
he didn’t fight—said something which sounded
like a prayer in Italian, and behaved like
a meek little gentleman.
Poor old Weatherfield! It was rotten
luck. For, honestly, had I known that he
would wear such a gaudy ornament as that
tiepin I never would have given it to him!
The Surfer.
Nothing more splendid to feel
Than waves that echoing peal,
Bringing one hard to heel,
Stemming thought’s drift;
Smashing with foamy shock
In impact naught can block.
Till the hoard feels it knock
Blindingly swift.
Oh, then there’s nothing more
Keen-joyed than in that roar
Whirling towards the shore
Dizzied to spin ;
Spray jetting thin and line
Stirring the blood like wine,
Waves in a straight sharp line
Driving one in.
In that force thundering by.
Clean like an arrow to fly,
Intoxicatingly high
On the dim sand ;
All that bright tension past,
Breathless, to feel at last,
In the one final fast
Moment, the land.
There to lie laughing, still
Feeling the cool keen thrill
Of muscle chained to will;
Then to go back,
Seeking in one long bright
Rush of speed such delight
As birds must find in flight,
And nothing lack.
MAORTLANO.
UNA CURRIE .
Dawn to Dusk.
Awake and come roving, far roving, my
friend,
For night and the stars have withdrawn :
And what better is there in this wide land
of ours
Than to roam at the blush o’ the dawn?
Fair scenes shall you gaze on, air wine-like
drink in,
If you will but journey with me
Down a track I’ve in mind, that goes wan-
dering on
With no end that a rover can see.
Away shall we stray from this town on the
heights
Ere folk from their couches arise,
Two a-stroll under trees side by side, keep-
ing step,
When the day has just opened its eyes.
Deep vales shall we see where the mist ot
the morn
Dies white as new milk in a cup,
And the red on high clouds giving place to
bright gold,
As the sun on a sudden leaps up.
And then, as o’er hilltop, o’er hollow, o’m
slope,
Rare glory, rich glory, is thrown.
We shall know by the leaping to life of all
things
That the day has come into its own.
Up-hill and down-hill, light of heart, shall
we go,
With bracken and ferns at our feet,
And shy flowers of the wild, wet with dew,
breathing out
Odors rare, odors fragrant and sweet.
Bird-songs we shall hear, and to hear them
at best
Our footfalls, our talk, we shall hush —
Now the trill of a wren, and, anon, a joy-
song
Poured abroad by a magpie or thrush.
When high climbs the sun we shall rest
for a space,
’Neath leafage adroop and aswoon;
For what sweeter is there in this sweet
land of ours
Than to bask in the glow o’ the noon?
Thus drowsing, the song of a lone waterfall,
A-foam in a fern-fronded glen,
Shall sound soft in our ears for a magical
while,
Till the track calls us onward again.
Arms swinging and singing a wanderlust
song,
O’er hill and through valley we’ll stray,
’Till the sun seeks the west and the shadows
creep east,
And a currawong farewells the day.
Then couched by a fire we shall slumber at
last.
Played over by shadow and light;
Oh, what kinder is there in this kind land
of ours
Than to sleep through the dark o’ the
night?
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


What the Guillotine Test
on Golf Balls proves c*
nr
rn
r r
rr
rr.
Vr-
VS
rt
rrr
m
n
SS
• :.V'4
mini
Tn#7
KR.O-FLITE
MULTI-DOT
GOLF BALLS'
are the only balls that cannot be cut throudi
The special Quillotlne Machine which
Is simply, a blunt weighted knife u’hich
drops from a height about 2 feet on to
fh« ball, having about the same effect
(it a badly topped shot.
f "phe illustrations above show a Spalding Kro-Flite ball with two other
“k well-known makes which have been through the Guillotine test —all
three balls having had exactly the same treatment. The picture speaks
for itself.
Where the other two balls are absolutely cut through, the Spalding
Kro-Flite has only two small dents on the cover.
THE REASON FOR THE STRENGTH OF THE KRO-FLITE
BALL IS GIVEN IN THE THREE ILLUSTRATIONS BELOW.
The Semi-Liquid Core—
en exclusive Spalding feature, is a small hollow
sphere of rubber which is filled with a thick
semi-liquid substance and frozen hard, to permit
of the rubber thread being wound tightly
round it.
The tighter this thread Is wound, the further
the ball will carry. An extremely tight-wcupd
centre is known as a high-power, or high com-
pression centre.
The frozen core naturally thaws to its semi-
liquid state again—and an extremely resilicnf
centre results
\V^
2S
Machine Winding.
The solid rubber core makes a less resilient
ball The soft centre requires lh*e first winding
to be done by hand. Maximum tension cannot
be applied until the centre is partially built
up.
But the Spalding method is to freeze the senii*
liquid core just before it goes to the winding
machines. The rubber thread can then be
wound on at maximpm stretch from the very
beginning—and a perfect sphere is built up. By
fhc very nature of this winding process., the
core must be perfectly centred and remain so
throughout the life of the ball.
rr
r<
r<r
cs
Vulcanised Cover.
Ail golf ball covers are made chiefly of bala(a.
Until the Spalding invention of the vulcatiised
cover, the only differences were in the mark'
ings. The result, that this cover, like the
rubber itself, is shock-absorbing rather than
shock-resisting. It has an unusual resiliency.
And because it is both resilient and TOUGH, a •
high powered centre can be used which gives
the ball DISTANCE nnd a sweet feel off tbt
face of the club.
FROM ALL PROFESSIONALS AND SPORTS STORES
t * / (AUSTRALASIA) * PTY LTO
V_\v
'l/L
\_\A
ILL
LL
(.LI-
LLI
LIL
LLU
NAA-L
,v\v_
New Multiset
J Golfincj Sensation /
The fac-simile of markings
herein, illustrates the latest
thing in golf balls. If the
new ball is placed alongside
the old style at. say. putting
distance from the eye, nine
people out of ten will see the
new as larger than the old. This is purely an optical
illusion; but, bringing out the sphericity of the ball
as the new marking does, makes it easier to hit. and
discounts, to some extent, the mental effect of
"cuppy” lies.
A majority of golfers make the mistake of looking
down on the ball, rather than behind it. It will be
noted from slow-motion pictures, how all the great
golfers focus their attention at the back of the ball.
7 ? Multi-dot always presents a spot for concentra-
tion behind the ball. Look at that spot when
hitting, and a better shot will result.
Multi-dot balls are easily identified on the fair way.
Four players using four different colors, can pick their
ball ten yards away.
In bright sunlight, and against the white sand of
traps, the Multi-dot is far less glaring to the eye. and
more easily defined.
As the ball ages in play, the Multi-dot serves in
contrast, and preserves a certain "appearance" in the
old ball.
Try it, and be convinced !


COMMONWEALTH LOAN
INTEREST 51 PER CENT. FOR 10 YEARS.
Persons having either small or large sums available for investment should remember that—»
Idle money means waste; the money should be immediately invested.
There is no safer investment than Commonwealth Loans.
Either Stock or Bonds can be purchased, and the purchaser can sell them at any time on the Stock Exchange, if he so desires.
The full amount of the subscription can be paid at the time of application; or a deposit of only 10 per cent, need be made
and the balance paid at any time up to June 4, 1929.
Interest is free of STATE INCOME TAX, and runs from the date of lodgment of money.
Full particulars from—
BANKS, SAVINGS BANKS, MONEY ORDER POST OFFICES and MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES.
Commonwealth Treasury,
Canberra.
EARLE PAGE,
Treasure:
them rather tame after the excitement of
Flemington. He found English ways a bit
too stiff for his taste, and looked forward
with pleasure to his homecoming—“ Australia
would do him.” According to Mrs. Cal-
croft’s information, he could be expected
back in Melbourne almost any day now.
Talk at the table turned presently to
the picture Felspar had painted for the
Artists’ Annual Exhibition. Felspar said
he had been particularly fortunate in find-
ing suitable models, an old Italian and his
daughter. The girl was a rather superior
type; her mother was a good example of
the French bourgeois, and it was from her
and not from her father that she had her
attractive qualities. The girl had an un-
usual personality to add to her looks. She
was, in her nature, all fire—but that was
the Southern temperament, he supposed.
“I’ve heard about this model of yours,
Mr. Felspar, and how the men are at her
feet,” Madge Clinton said, banteringly.
“Wherever did you find the treasure?”
“I saw her first quite by chance,” Fel-
spar explained soberly, refusing to rise to
the banter. “She was serving in her father’s
fruitshop, which is not far from my
studio. Her father is a sausage-roll sort of
Italian, if you know what I mean. He’s
rolling in fat, he has a rolling gait and he
rolls his eyes; and the fat cigar he usually
smokes he rolls between his lips. I was
glad to secure sittings from them, though
the man proved to be a bit of a nuisance
and an awful leech for money.”
“That’s interesting,” said Clinton. “I’d
never thought of that. You artist fellows
have to keep your eyes open for good
models, eh?”
“Oh yes! The girl, who was born in
Adelaide, has wonderful eyes, but it was
outside my power to reproduce them. It’s
the ‘she’ in her that gives the fire, and no
artist could paint the ‘she’ in her,” remarked
Felspar, in tones of genuine admiration.
“What’s her name—or is that a trade
secret?” asked Mrs. Calcroft.
“Oh no—Marie Carducci,” he replied.
Betty and her mother looked at each
other. Before they could speak, Felspar
continued: “Her father was born at Naples,
he says, and he told me several picturesque
yarns, including one of the burning of a
boat on the river Darling. He was a
travelling river merchant, it seems. By
George!” exclaimed Felspar, turning to
Betty, “you must have heard of the family,
if what he said is true.”
“We knew Marie Carducci; she has picked
fruit for us,” Mrs. Calcroft answered.
“That’s strange, now, isn’t it? The
world’s small, after all. What did you think
of her?” he asked Betty.
“Do you take milk with your coffee?”
Mrs. Clinton interjected.
“Go on with the story,” said Clinton.
“I’m interested in the model, Felspar. She
seems to be rather a remarkable girl”
“I don’t suppose Mr. Felspar has explored
their family tree,” said Mrs. Clinton. “And
Madge, dear, you mustn’t think every artist
is in love with his model.”
“Oh, I don’t suppose they all are. But
artists have married their models before
to-day, haven’t they, Mr. Felspar?” asked
Madge.
“Oh yes, quite a number,” he said
hurriedly, a flush mounting to his cheeks.
“You see, they’re supposed to understand
the artistic temperament,” he added with
a forced smile.
“Is it really hard to understand?” Madge
asked, still pursuing the line of her thought.
“It depends a good deal on who is try-
ing,” laughed Felspar. “And on the artist.
I don’t think you would have any difficulty
in understanding me, for instance. There
is so little to understand.”
Mrs. Clinton had observed the flush on
Felspar’s cheeks. She was not quite sure
that this banter was fair to their guest.
Ever trying to pour oil on troubled waters,
she said: “Don’t take any notice of what
Madge says, Mr. Felspar.”
“Oh, we all know what Madge thinks
about Mr. Felspar,” said Betty, in the way
of a playful thrust.
Felspar laughed a little uncomfortably,
and the talk went on without any serious
meaning.
“A ou see, Felspar,” Mr. Clinton broke
in at last, “how hard it is to get to the
heart of anything at this table. For the
last five minutes I’ve been trying to find
out what you know about your model, and
I cannot get a word in edgeways.”
There was a silence, broken by Mrs.
Clinton suggesting music.
Betty was thinking of how Marie Carducci
attracted men. Mr. Felspar had felt the
magnetism of the girl, and while he said
that she was to him only a desirable model,
was that quite true? Was Mr. Felspar more
indifferent to this young woman’s charms
than other men? She could not understand
it. Gerald Deacon was quite a contrast
to Edward Felspar, and yet the woman
had qualities that attracted both of them.
She was satisfied that Mr. Felspar was
deceiving himself. It was the woman he
wanted, not the model.
Within a week Felspar had an irresistible
feeling that he must see Betty again. In the
hope of doing so he waited outside the
National Gallery about the time he thought
she left the Art School to go home. He
smoked two cigarettes while lie stood about
watching for her appearance and then was
rewarded for his waiting; Betty came
through the school door on her way to
Swanston-street.
“This is a pleasant surprise!” he ex-
claimed. “I was thinking of you as I came
through the gates, and here you are! That
shows”
“That you have been waiting here,” Betty
laughingly concluded the sentence. “But
who are you waiting for?”
“She has come!” he answered, looking
into her eyes with meaning.
Betty blushed. She always did blush when
Felspar seeme 1 to mean more with his
eyes than he conveyed in words.
When Betty was introduced to Edward
Felspar at the Clintons she was attracted
towards him because his gossip about the
Edward Felspar.
art world of Melbourne was fascinating to
her. His interest in her work pleased her.
She felt that his criticism was instructive.
He made an impression on her, too, that
he was chivalrous towards women; she saw
it in little acts that came naturally to him.
She frankly liked him, but never thought of
him in terms of love.
“I came to see you really because I
wanted to say something to you,” said
Felspar.
“That’s intriguing,” replied Betty coquet-
tishly. She had quite recovered herself.
They strolled into the Stawell Gallery
and stood before a picture of Brangwyn’s.
Felspar tried to concentrate his thoughts on
the painting, and to make some rational
remarks. In an intermittent, confused way
he said that Brangwyn found the key to his
art in the color opulence of the East. Then
the beauty of Betty’s eyes obsessed him,
and he stopped short with a smile.
Visitors to the gallery moved to and fro,
preventing Felspar from saying what lay
nearest to his heart.. He bethought himself
that there was a small picture of Brang-
wyn’s in the Connell collection upstairs.
There, surely, was a gallery quiet enough
to whisper secrets in. At his suggestion
they went upstairs. Betty suspected her
companion’s enthusiasm.
“I never knew,” she said, as they stood
alone in the Connell Gallery, “that you were
so keen on Brangwyns.”
“I’m not really; at least, not to-day. Do
you know why I asked you to come up
here?”
“Not to make love to me, I hope. I’m
not at all sentimental,” said Betty, with
a mischievous smile.
As they sat down Betty said: “Well?”
I “It’s pretty hard,” he replied, “but I
think I should tell you, that is, if you do
. not think me presumptuous in believing
you have an interest in me?”
Avoiding an answer, Betty said, “But
what is it you want to tell me?”
“Only that when I w 7 as an art student in
Paris i married a French girl. But she’s
dead,” he added quickly.
Betty was silent. In what way did it
concern her? She did not know what she
ought to do.
Continuing, Felspar said with some show
of feeling: “Nobody knew. I buried the
story when I left Paris. The woman’s hodv
—she v 7 as an adventuress —was found six
months after I returned to Melbourne, in
the Seine, and it was buried in Paris from
—from the Morgue. A dreadful story,” lie
said hurriedly. “I have,” he added, “the
certificate of her death.”
He pulled out his wallet and looked
through the papers.
“It’s gone!” he exclaimed in alarm. “I’ve
—l’ve lost it!”
“Are you sure? Perhaps you left it at
home,” Betty suggested sympathetically.
“No! I looked it out a day or two since
and put it in my wallet, with the intention
of showing it to you when I told you the
story. I cannot think where it could have
gone. But I will find it. I must find it.”
In detail Felspar related part of the story
of his life in Paris. Betty listened with
downcast eyes. When he had concluded he
pleaded:
“All this will not make any difference in
your regard for me, will it?”
“Why should it? I am sorry for you.
Any woman would be who knows you.”
After that Betty remained silent, with
her eyes fixed far away.
“Won’t you help a fellow a bit?” asked
Felspar.
“I’m afraid I cannot help you in the way
I suppose you mean. I’m awfully sorry for
you, and awfully sorry that the paper is
missing. Why don’t you see my uncle, Mr.
Clinton? He’s a helpful man —he under-
stands everything.”
Felspar asked Betty if she would like him
to do so. She answered in a colorless tone
that if she had not thought well of it she
would not have suggested the interview.
They strolled out into Swanston-street,
into the bustle of Melbourne life. Felspar
left Betty to go to his studio, and Betty
hurried to Collins-street. To his suggestion
of afternoon tea she had explained that she
had promised to meet Miss Sammond and
have tea with her.
Betty was interested in Miss Sammond
as a type of life in Melbourne, skating
along the edge of the upper crust of society.
Miss Sammond, on her part, was anxious to
rub away some of Betty’s little provincial-
isms.
After the two had sat down Miss Sam-
mond said she had been a victim of hard
luck the afternoon before. She was to have
gone to a matinee with Jim Beamer, but
his firm sent him to Ballarat at the last
moment.
Betty was mildly sympathetic.
“I do hate to be disappointed,” declared
Miss Sammond. “It puts me out of tune
with things. Don’t you find it like that?”
“Yes; but what can one do?” asked Betty
with an amused smile.
“Oh, you can smile; we can all bear the
other fellow’s boils like angels. Now what’s
this I hear about you entering for some
advanced students’ competition in figure
drawing?”
“Surely you would not grudge me having
a few castles in the air, since you say I
live in the clouds?” Betty replied jestingly.
“You artists, at least some of you, take
yourselves very seriously.”
“Art is a jealous mistress.”
Miss Sammond laughed. “I knew you
would say that. You are so percussional!
Felspar says the same thing. I suppose it’s
from him you learned the great truth.”
“Possibly!” replied Betty with a chill air
that was not lost upon her companion.
“Oh well, I meant nothing. Felspar is
serious minded. He’s a bit of a pal of
mine, but as an artist his ambition donkey-
licks his abilities. He is as serious as the
face of the post-office clock. His treadmill
virtues make me tired, though. He can say
nice things, and place them on a box of
chocolates, or send a girl bunches of violets
every day of the week. When Felspar’s
‘after you’ you know it all right.”
“Is all that spoken from experience?”
asked Betty demurely.
“Oh yes!” Miss Sammond replied com-
placently. “Felspar had a bit of a flair for
me, and the bombardment of chocolates
and violets set in, but I wasn’t making a
fool of myself. If a reformed rake makes
the best husband, Felspar should be worth
marrying—when he does reform. His people
have money, and he must be doing all right
—his paintings sell well at his exhibitions.
What do you think of him?”
Miss Sammond asked the question in
what was meant to be a casual way; but
the snare was set within sight of the bird.
“Oh, I think lie’s very nice,” replied
Betty, refusing to be drawn.
“‘Very nice!’” Miss Sammond exclaimed
contemptuously. “Everybody, good heavens,
is ‘very naice’ till the break comes.”
“What pleasant things you say—and what
nasty ones!”
“Have you ever seen a small picture he
has in his studio of the head of a French-
woman with the suggestion of a pierrette’s
costume?”
“No, I have not been in his studio.”
“Good! Keep out of it. But that French-
woman’s head is the best picture Felspar
has painted. He was in love with that
woman when lie painted her—maybe she
was his petite amie in Paris. I asked him
once if it was for sale, and he snapped out
that it wasn’t. After that I asked him to
tell me the story of the woman, and he was
fool enough to say ‘No’ quite decisively.”
“Why fool?” asked Betty, unable to fol-
low the undercurrent of suggestion in her
companion’s talk.
“Because he showed no guile. He could
have told me any likely yarn, and I would
have believed him. On the one hand, Fel-
spar has no guile and is impulsive; on the
other hand, he is quite cunning at times.
Naturally, being a woman, I looked closer
into the picture to see if I could jerk out
its secret. It was a work of love, but I
could not get any further impression from
it. I’m satisfied, though, there’s a mystery
because Felspar makes a mystery of it. And
that Frenchwoman is in it.”
Betty marvelled at how close the keen
brain of Miss Sammond was guessing at the
truth. After all, she thought, how little
did she, Betty Calcroft, know of this strange
world! Felspar’s character, as she had con-
ceived it, had certainly to undergo modi-
fications if a quarter of what Miss Sam-
mond said was true.
Again Betty stood up for Felspar. “Of
course, you have proofs of all you say!” she
said, half-mockingly.
“Perhaps not of his life in Paris; but what
about the Carducci girl?”
“I don’t know anything against Marie
Carducci, and I should know it if there
was anything to know. She was a fruit-
picker for my father and I saw her almost
every day.”
“Oh, you wquldn’t know anything, Betty.
You don’t know women and their ways.
Some women, their daring and the risks
they take with some men, would astound a
pure, simple soul like you! And her father
—a horrible sort of man! I was quite ner-
vous of him. When he smiled at me and I saw
his great teeth I thought he could eat me.”
Betty recalled to her mind the sight of
Carducci’s limp body in the motor-car at
Mildura, after the blow Gerald Deacon had
given him, but she did not speak of it.
“I don’t think the Italian is as terrible
as you seem to suggest,” she said. “His
eyes certainly seem to flash, but he is no-
thing to be afraid of—if you are not fright-
ened of the smell of garlic. I am not afraid
of him myself; at least, not when he is in
his fruitshop in the daytime.”
“I wouldn’t trust him anywhere or at any
time. How the artistic circle tolerates him
Ido not know 7 . I’m sure he is an awful
rogue.”
“I think he is all that,” agreed Betty; “I
should call him a rogue in amber. But
never mind him; tell me something about
yourself. What are you doing?”
“Well, do you know Jim wanted me to
have my horoscope cast, but when I told
him that only ants and woodpeckers thought
of the future he said they had more sense
than he had, and then took me in his car
for a spin.”
“That’s Mr. Beamer, isn’t it?—what’s he
interested in, music, art or literature?”
“Good lor’, no! Jim’s interested in neck-
ties.”
With Betty’s rippling laughter a ray of
sunlight wandered into the room, and
everybody was .the better for it.
{To be continued.)


Ranking, Public Companies, etc.
'THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3.369.963
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1928.. £18,623,453
Directors:
Sir MARK SHELDON, K.8.E., Chairman.
FRANK N. YARWOOD; H. HI. LYSAGHT, 0.8. E. ;
GEORGE J. SLY, LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER: C. M. C. SHANNON.
CHIEF INSPECTOR: W. G. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH: 62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.
The BANK is represented by 1 86 Branches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, with Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock
Preference Shares
Long Term Mortgage Shares
Ordinary Shares
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
£529,988
1,875,000
616,210
3,750,000
3,732,525
on Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and tiansacts all other usual Banking business.
GRANTS DRAFTS
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament 1865,
and Registered under the Companies Act 1892,
of South Australia.)
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 970,000
„ , £2,220,000
Reserve liability of shareholders •. 1,260,000
50 o,** i
Also 115 Branches and Agencies in South Australia,
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
ARL AUSTRALIANS visiting Londou
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, Od. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd.. 850 George Street, Sydney:
or 424 Collins Street. Melbourne.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — think of
vSlpfl
SCHUTE,
BELL&O Ltd.
If you have
Wool 8c Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN CLUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISLAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAL ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNEL CLUB
N.Z. GOLF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. POLO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of the World’s Leading
Advertising Agencies.
Shipping, etc.
In the Isles
of Enchantment
SOFTLY cradled in the Pacific, like tropical
flowers afloat on the surface of a pond,
the Isles of Enchantment beckon to wearied
Australians. In their deep restfulness are the
gentle weaving of palms, the caress of wind
in the trees, the murmur of surf, the scent of
strange blossoms, the majesty of green-mantled
mountains, the beauty of thatched roofs
between fruit-trees.
These await you at Rarotonga and Papeete,
or at Suva and Honolulu, and in addition an
ocean holiday at less than the cost of a city
vacation.
Particulars —
UNION STEAM
SHIP COMPANY,
247 George Street,
Sydney.
59 William Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
m
t/i ’. A ««fl»d-.'V« m mm* ipWVV * '//.VVi /■'.
»/M
d/ur/V,/
AW
Wy.i,
r\
ywv
Wm
mm
~~—r£l^^SpigP
J %-~'-£aE£
2 -i •
~' ~ rT>r
**&**
I
*
HI
mSBM
U
Attractive Trips of from 2 to 7 Weeks.
Magnificent Scenery, Luxuriant Tropical Vegetation
and Quaint Surroundings.
Make a selection and book early for a most interesting
Holiday.
SOUTH SEA ISLAND CRUISES
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Lord
Howe Island, Norfolk Island and New Hebrides
JAVA AND SINGAPORE
(“The Garden of the East”)
Monthly Sailings from Melbourne and Sydney
by the “MARELLA” (7500 tons) and
“MALABAR” (5000 tons).
m
m
A
rr
sMaesss
BURNS, PHILP&’ COMPANY LIP.
SYDNEY AND BRANCH OFFICES
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
ESTABLISHED 1817
With which is amalgamated
m
nSB*
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND
RESERVE LIABILITY
BANK.
£7,500,000
5,900,000
7,500,000
£20,900,000
AUST*
9^
E.ST
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30. 1928, £88,982,585.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
549 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand Fiji Papua
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.’
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,075,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,553,025 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN ( Chairman) ; Hon. Sir THOMAS HUGHES
M.L.C.; Hon. JAMES ASHTON. M.L.C.: OWEN ESMOND FRIEND •’
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRY HURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and Canberra
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping for outports).
FOR BRISBANE, MACKAY, TOWNSVILLE, CAIRNS
(Transhipping for outports).
TO EUROPE—
Via UNITED STATES & CANADA
See Honolulu. San Francisco, Los Angeles, Chicago,
Niagara Falls, New York. Vancouver, Montreal, Que-
bec, and travel across the Atlantic on one of the
luxurious
CUNARD LINERS,
including the
H.M.S. AQUITANIA,
46,000 Tons.
n.M.s. berengaria,
54,000 Tons.
R.M.S. MAURETANIA;
30,000 Tons.
Return Tickets issued by the Suez Canal and Cape
Lines are available for this route.
Apply for particulars of reduced through rates to
CUNARD LINE
(C. and D. Line),
1 BENT STREET, SYDNEY.
TAKE YOUR HOLIDAYS NOW
in
HAWAII !
HAWAII !
HAWAII !
Corne to the paradise of the Pacific and enjoy
a holiday such as you’ve never had before. Bask
in the warm health-giving climate of Hawaii ;
build up both body and mind in the romantic
surroundings of this Island Utopia.
Surf, Golf, Summer Sports galore await you,
plus the contagious cheerfulness of this happiest-
of-all peoples—the HawaiianS, Inter-Island
cruises. Visit Kilauea Volcano,
The steamer fare for such a holiday will cost
a 3 low as £55 second-class or £75 first-class.
Good American Hotels with all meals, 12/- to
£3 daily. Fullest particulars from steamship
and travel agents, or write for booklet.
HAWAII TOURIST BUREAU,
Dept. 26, Box 162788, G.P.0.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Take your Holidays now Go to
HAWAII - HAWAII - HAWAII
BRISBANE,via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane Issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening ; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday eveni.ig;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/6/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE.
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart ParkerL
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Sireat, Sydney.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.


D
Li
D
iCG
ns
:h
lOC
□
!)U
n
□
□
L
C
Mr.
B. a. WkIGIJT.
‘‘ln gratitude I am
writing these few lines to
inform you of the benefit
1 have derived from the
use of Rexona Ointment.
‘•Recently l was spending
a holiday at liallarat and
on iny return to clerical
duties in Melbourne was
surprised and annoyed to
find a boil on my right
cheek. It, continued to
swell and, though painless,
was embarrassing in its
unsightliness. 1 hare been
unable to discover the
origin of the eruption but
was eager for it to dis-
appear. Instead of diminish-
ing, however, it increased
in size, hence 1 decided
prompt action was neces-
sary. I first applied bread
poultices and then Rexona
dressings, and 1 am pleased
to say the trouble soon
subsided. The boil was
obliterated almost im-
mediately and nothing re-
mains.”
( Sgd.) Mr. HENRY Q.
WRIGHT,
80 Ford Street,
Ivanhoe, Via.
All Australia Uses
Rexona—the Rapid Healer
Never a day passes but that Rexona scores another triumph over those serious troubles of
life -lloils, Sores, Had Legs, Piles, Eczema, Pimples, Blotches, Burns, Nasal Catarrh, and Rheu-
matism. The dainty little triangular pot of Rexona, the Rapid Healer, contains a combina-
tion of the most curative, antiseptic, soothing and healing properties known to science.
Rexona is the Skin Remedy of the Age, because it destroys the harmful germs that may
be present in a sore, pimple, or any abrasion of the skin, thus preventing any contagion of
the blood, and at the same time causes a new, healthy skin to grow. Rexona immediately
reduces the inflammation and pain ; it acts as a distinct stimulant to thte pores of the skin,
and sets up a healing action immediately that increases day by day.
Bad leg-sores that have resisted every
other treatment succumb almost immediately to
its wonderful influence, while for Piles there is
nothing its equal. Rexona, the Rapid Healer,
soxd only in Triangular Pots, at 1/6 and 3/-.
Rzaccma
Jhe Rapid
fhaler
A MEDICINE CHEST
IN ITSELF
(liimnti
Oi
sfd
#Cooling
ooolhmg -
Healing
ydntisepfic Oinim'enP
lT,es -f Absolutely^
Hea il J* liable
A Reliable Healer for all Eruptions
and Irritations of the skm. Eczema Sows. Cuts. y
Burns Bruises. Sores. Sciatica. Piles-Stings of Inseds.
and all kinds of Inflammation
PEP* SHELDON DRUG C q L'PSVDNEY?
triangular bo*
Mailed to you the
day dieyaie made
CJhe famous 'fed Box of Chocolates
■m
K- •
(jPATON)
#
HILL
CHOCOLATES
Josh fre
'ree lo any
/address in QuslraLia.
PR.ICES
5/-. 54 , 6/, 10/-, 124,
2Q/-a.^d.304
ADDRESS—
162-166 Pitt Stile et
SYDN E V~
fds
•*END.FOR..CATALOGUEJLLUSTftATEPjWITH REPROOUCnONS~'OFrOUR.~OONFECTIONER.Y.I_N J .COLQUR3)
Mad Malone.
BY J. E. M. ABBOTT.
WHEN in the year of our Lord 3800
Denis Malone arrived in Port Jack-
son, Captain Philip Gidley King
was Governor of New South Wales, and the
unpleasant four-year-old remains of an
executed convict named Morgan—-or what
was left of them —hung upon a gibbet
erected on the top of the islet of Mattewai,
which has been occupied by the quaint and
picturesque little Fort Denison since just
after the termination of the Crimean War.
Denis knew nothing of Governor King—
though it was not so long before he was to
know a good deal—but he was much im-
pressed by the sight of the last of the physi-
cal part of the late Mr. Morgan (little more
than a few bones held together in a sort
of iron basket), as they swung in the breezes
on the apex of Pinchgut. Like those
simple souls the aborigines, who never went
near the island after the murderer's corpse
had been pul there in lT'.Mi. lie fell that
such a spectacle was a desecration and a
blasphemy in so beautiful a place as he
sailed into on that summer morning in the
transport Minerva. Though he had wit-
nessed many horrors in Ireland in ’9B, and
was not unused to the aspect of gibbets in
market-places, at cross-roads and on hill-
lops, ilie sight of one here in this new coun-
try filled the soul of Denis Malone with
more revolt than it had ever contained dur-
ing the Rebellion.
That kindly gentleman Captain William
Cox a passenger on the ship who was re-
turning to settle in New South Wales- had
assured the Irish prisoners that they were
coming to one of the best countries in the
world, where they would have such chances
as they never could have hoped for at home ;
and “General” Joseph Holt, voyaging in the
cabin with the “quality,” had given them
his much respected word that Captain
('ox was to be believed. As they sailed up
the south coast the look of the land —its
sunlit beauties of green shores and blue
ranges—had impressed him greatly. And so
had the harbor—-before they came to Pinch-
gut. Then the sight of the gibbet, with the
dangling fragments of mortality swinging
from its black arm, had given Denis a shock
of horror that he never recovered from in
his life.
“Glory be!’’ he whispered to one of his
companions with whom he had been picked
out to assist the sailors in the navigation of
the ship, “ ’tis no use av Captain Cox a-
tellin’ us thim tales. Luk at that. We’ve
come to no New Worruld. "Tis but part
o’ the ould wan planted out o’ sight. Faith,
they might at laste ha’ stuck a Howly Cross
up there—for a sign o’ good hope-—instid o’
that thing, so they might!”
There can be no doubt—if you read his
despatches to the (Secretary of State —that
Captain King was very nervous on the score
of the Irish prisoners who had been consigned
to his charge by the Home Government. They
were a nightmare to him, sleeping and wak-
ing—one that he never was quite free from
during his whole term of office. Always to
him they were on the brink of renewed re-
volution ; their slightest misdemeanors were
translated by his apprehensions info plot-
tings and conspiracies directed towards the
overturning of the Government, violent up-
risings, pillage and bloody murder. So, with
the view 7 of keeping them well in hand, they
were treated with a pitiless severity that
made their lot a harder one than that of
any other class of prisoners who were ever
transported to these shores. And the hardest
part of it all was that, with a few turbulent
exceptions, the bulk of them were more
amenable to kindly and humane treatment
than the general run of convicts in the
colony.
Wherefore Denis Malone found that the
ill omen of the gibbet on the island was one
that his subsequent experiences entirely jus-
tified. Almost immediately on landing, he
was marched out to Toongabbic, just beyond
Parramatta, and his first adventures at that
primitive agricultural settlement w r erc rather
more than discouraging.
It w 7 as a w 7 eary tramp along a dusty bush
track that brought a gang of sixty of them,
after a march of nearly 17 miles, to the agri-
cultural camp amongst the tall timber to
the westward of Parramatta, and it was late
afternoon when they arrived there. Men
who had been confined on shipboard for close
upon six months were in poor condition for
such an excursion, but they had been driven
like a mob of cattle by the overseers, and
forced to keep up with the pace set by the
soldiers of the N.S.W. Corps who acted as
their guard. For the last few miles three
of the weakest prisoners had had to be car-
ried by their comrades in turn under a
threat from the sergeant of the escort that
they would be bayoneted rather than left, as
they begged to be, to die by the wayside.
When they reached the camp, an astounding
thing happened to the three unfortunates.
The Superintendent came out to meet them
as they wearily drew near to the stockade
about sunset.
“What ha’ ye brought this time, Ser-
geant?” he asked, scanning the unhappy
throng disgustedly. “Oh, ye needn’t tell me
tis another batch o’ them Croppies, I can
see for meself. What’s up xvi’ these three?”
pointing with his stick at the exhausted men
whom their comrades had laid on the grass.
“Oh. they knocked up back at Clay OliJf
Creek,” replied the n.c.o. “I let the others
take turns to carry ’em.”
“Ah,” remarked Mr. Michael Tudor plea-
santly. “Knocked hup, did they? I see they
need a little rewivin’, hey. Well, they’ve
c-ome to th’ right place for rewivin’ th’
sperrits. Billy,” he said to one of the con-
vict constables lounging about the stockade,
"go an’ get th’ flogger. An’ you, Tom, an’
yon, Jerry, take an’ tie ’em up to trees w’ile
he s a-comin’. ’Tis jest as well for ’em all
in this noo lot to learn that there ain’t no
sich a thing as knockin’ up at Toongabbie.
” e don’t reckernise it ’ere. We’ll give ’em
a dozen for to brighten ’em hup a bit. An’
tli' rest o’ you can see for a start ’ow we
do things ’ere. ’Twill cheer ye hup artei
your walk from Sydney. ’Tis a good place
this ye’ve come to, me lads. See that ye’re
worthy of it.”
So the three sick and weary boys were
dragged to separate trees, their arms secured
about the trunks by the wrists, their shirts
torn roughly from their backs, and each re-
ceived in turn, not twelve lashes, but twenty-
five-—the famous “Botany Bay dozen.”
“My God !’’ muttered Dennis Malone when
they were herded together in the bark-roofed
shed that was assigned to them as sleeping
quarters. “Did iver mortial man see th’
lik • av it! Sure, th’ fellie a bangin’ on th’
little island we seen yestiddy lie wasn’t so
badly off after all. I lowly saints -an’ this
is th' place where we’ve betther chances than
iver we had at home! Mary, preserve us!”
# aft *
Time went on, and Denis Malone saw
many things, and endured many things, and
di<l many things such as lie had never
dreamed were to be seen or endured or done
in “this mortial worruld.” For several
months in the beginning he tilled the ground
at Toongabbie with a heavy hoe in company
with a couple of hundred of his unhappy
compatriots, doing the hardest work on the
scantiest rations that could by any possi-
bility be expected to keep soul and body to-
gether. Soon after his arrival someone stole
his jacket. A little later his shirt went,
and then his hat. lie became watchful after
that, and no one was able to get; away with
his breeches, for the simple reason that he
never took them off. There were some men
who had lost everything, who toiled in the
fields stark naked under the merciless whips
of the overseers, through hot days and cold
days and wet days until they became brown
and tanned and dirt-encrusted effigies of
humanity, with matted hair and beards and
an appearance that was more savage and
degraded than that of the native inhabi-
tants.
He was himself the color of old leather
down to the hips, and on those rare occasions
when he could strip and wash m Toongabbie
Creek, marvelled at the contrast, between his
white hips and thighs and the dark brown
of his body and lower legs. More than once
he felt the sting of an overseer's whip across
his bare shoulders, but it was a long time be-
fore he was flogged, for he was a strong and
willing worker, and invariably civil and
obedient to his exacting taskmasters.
But at length even Hogging happened to
him, and thence onward he was Mad, Malone.
He had been taken from field work and
assigned to one of the timber-carrying gangs
who transported on their shoulders—so that
they looked like long centipedes as they stag-
gered forward under their burdens—the
trimmed and squared tree-trunks which were
used as beams in the increasing building
operations of Parramatta. The logs had to
be carried by man-power to the river, which
was a mile away from where the timber was
cut. Then they were floated down the nar-
row stream into the town, where similar
gangs moved them to the places where they
were required for new buildings. It was
terrible toil, but Denis was a powerful young
man and survived it somehow.
One bright morning he was waiting with
his gang—sixteen half-nude, thin but sun-
burned and muscular young men—for the
final trimming of a baulk of timber which
was to be their next load to the river. There
had been some delay owing to the tree, when
it had been felled, having fallen upon a man
and nine-tenths killed him. Ilis smashed car-
ease had been dragged with difficulty from
beneath the tree, which had had to be levered
off him at the cost of considerable time. The
overseer, an economist in the latter, had set
some of the men digging a grave, but un-
fortunately the dying man’s broken spirit had
inconsiderately delayed in leaving his broken
body, so that more than half an hour elapsed
before it could be dumped into the shallow
hole which they had scooped open in readi-
ness for its reception. Although the axe-
men and the adzemen -were peremptorily
bidden to go on -with their work: and “Get
to it, ’tis no consarn of yours. Trim off
them branches and square th’ log!”
the carriers were perforce compelled to
wait until the timber was ready for them
to shift it to the river.
Denis Malone was a pious Catholic and a
good Christian who could not bear to see a
fellow-sinner’s soul pass out of his body with-
out some intercession being offered up to
Heaven on its behalf. He did not dare to
utter a prayer in the presence of the over-
seer—such a thing would have savored of
the heinous crime of “insolence” —so he had
sneaked off into the bush by himself and
there, in the tall aisles of the forest, cath-
edral-like in their long columnar arcades,
had knelt down alone and begun to pray
aloud. . The chopping of the axes drowned
his voice sufficiently to prevent its reaching
the ears of Peter Gamble and Sam Jones,
the respective overseers of the axemen and
the carriers.
“Mother o’ God,” he implored whilst the
tears ran down his face into his red beard—
“Oh, Holy Mary, ha’ pity on this pore fellie,
an give him peace an ’ comfort. Jesus, watch
over his pore soicl, an’ ”
“What th’ Hell are you doing there?”
A bellowing voice arrested his pious plead-
ing—a voice that he knew so -well and feared
so thoroughly that he sprang to his feet at
once and turned in terror to confront the
burly six feet of Mr. Michael Tudor, Super-
intendent of Labor at Tongabbie, who was
making the morning rounds of his various
detachments of slaves.
“What tli’ Devil does this mean?” he
roared, in repeated astonished inquiry.
Denis Malone lifted his hand to his shadow
brow in tremulous salutation. ’
. “If W plaze, y’r honor, there’s been a man
kilt beyant there, an’—an’ I was but savin’
a prayer f r th’ passin’ av his sowl. 'Tis
(Continued on next page.)


'€very Picture
Zells a Story
Mr
&
////'.
if*
l%«s
m
i
m:
Help Your Kidneys!
Avoid that wearying backache!
JF THE KIDNEYS are weak, excess uric acid over-
loads the blood. Pains begin to strike across the
small of the back, and rheumatic twinges, headaches,
dizziness and urinary troubles quickly follow. Don t
neglect these warnings! You should strengthen the
kidneys NOW. There is danger of rheumatism,
lumbago, sciatica, gravel or stone. Let Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills help you. Doan s Pills will relieve
your kidney troubles, as surely as earlier treatment would have prevented them.
A MAN’S CASE.
Mr. Frederick Bradd, Crump Street, Mortdale, Sydney,
Bays : “I caught a severe cold, which settled in my kidneys and
caused severe backache. I suffered intense pain, and could not
stoop or move about freely. I did not know* what to do to
get ease, for the remedies I used did me no good. Seeing an
advertisement for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills led me to try
them. They gave me relief right from the first dose, and in a
short time I was cured. I have no sign of backache now, and
attribute my cure solely to Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.”
Sixteen years later Mr. Bradd says : “I have been free from
backache since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me sixteen
years ago. I am still a great believer in this medicine, and
often take a few doses, as I think the kidneys need a tonic
sometimes.”
TWO SYDNEY
PEOPLE
CURED OF
BACKACHE
AND KIDNEY
TROUBLE.
A WOMAN’S CASE.
Mrs. J. Webb, Sorrell Street, Parramatta, says: “A member
of my family used to suffer a lot from headache and kidney
trouble. The pains in her back were very severe at times and
almost crippled her. Her general health was very indifferent,
and she often felt too tired and ill to bother about anything. I
am thankful to say, however, that her. health troubles have now
disappeared, and this is due solely to Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills. She was advised to take this medicine, and it proved
to be splendid advice, nine bottles restoring the kidneys to a
healthy state and driving the pain out of her back entirely.”
Two years later Mrs. Webb says: “The cure referred to
still holds good, no sign of backache and kidney trouble having
returned since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were used over
two years ago. We are all great believers in this remedy, and
alwmys keep a bottle in the house.”
w
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Sold by all
Chemists and Stores,
or from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton Street,
Sydney.
but right someone sh’d do it for um—an’, as
y r honor knows, there’s no praste here. I
t. ought; mebbe, ’twould do for me to say it,
s * r -’
Mr. Tudor stared at him in amazement
for a few moments. Then he roared with
laughter. _
O my Gawd !” lie guffawed—so that
even the sounds of chopping momentarily
ceased. “Oh, d—n my lieyes! There’s a
Holy .Toe amongst you scum, is there? Well,
111.... be. .. .d — d!”
But his mood of genial amusement did not
last long. Scowling blackly, he bellowed
again at the shrinking Denis. _
“Look a-here, ye blackguard,” he cried,
shaking his stick at the convict, “what gang
d ye belong to?"
™her two carriers, y r honor
\\ ell, get back to it, and tell Mr. Jones
I said ye was to get three dozen for idling
were in this
J, r honorh r tli love o God
Shut yr month. I ve more than half a
mind to charge ye with absconding, when the
least ye d get would be a hundred. Say an-
I’ll i ,V ° 1 ( * roppy, an > by God,
l li do it.
So when the weary gangs converged upon
the stockade that evening, Denis Malone was
duly caused to embrace a blue-gum and re-
eeive his three dozen. As they untied his
wrists and lie staggered away, Mr. > uperin-
* , U< ] 01 °^ sel ' ,< . £’" nia hy ■ ,
That 11 larn ye not to waste Gov mint
time a-prayin, me buck. Twill teach ye
we don’t want no Holy Jo-ing at Toongabbie.
And you others can take notice o that, too!
Denis’s insanity—for he undoubtedly be-
came insane after this harrowing experience
--took a curious form or, rather, two forms,
which blended and intermixed themselves as
ony the processes of mental illness can.
d, 'r U T m "7 (
wiitly prayerful than he had been before,
le " h f nUS V f / hc
, 1 ! ntte ™f Paternosters and Arcs
? ’•• *f° r eachone of h.s unfortunate
comrades m the carrying gang and for him-
self he was constant y supplicating the mercy
of Heaven. At night, m the. shed where they
slept almost naked on the bar*' earth, his
mates would be disturbed by his orisons—
sometimes uttered in his sleep, when he in-
variably prayed for (lie sou! of the man who
Had been gibbeted on Pinchgut—and they
would sleepily curse and blaspheme and
threaten to make him sleep outside. Once,
indeed, when they heard him praying for
thc soul of Mr. Tudor, they arose in wrath
and threw him .out with violence. It was
then that they began to call him “Mad
Malone” or “Cranky Dinny.”
But with all this devoutness and piety
was blended an insatiable lust for vengeance
upon the man who had treated him —as, in-
deed, lie was constantly treating one or other
of his serfs—with such hideous cruelty and
oppression. Intermingled with his confused
cogitations upon the goodness of God were
utterly different musings upon the chances
of securing the Deity’s aid in the painful
obliteration of Mr. Michael Tudor. He could
feel concern for Black Mike’s soul at the
same time that lie planned and plotted with
himself tortures and penalties that might by
any possibility be inflicted upon his detested
carcase. Pictures of the Superintendent in
the act of receiving 1000 lashes, laid on by
himself, would pass through his sick brain
immediately before or after other pictures of
the pitying Virgin stretching forth a hand
to assist Mr. Tudor out of Hell. They were
the sort of visions which a good and simple
and kindly nature that had not been quite
successfully goaded into bestiality and utter
degradation might have entertained. For
although the cruelties of Governor King's re-
pressive policy of the Irish prisoners might
drive Denis Malone mad, they could not
utterly squeeze all the good that was in the
man out of him. But they succeeded in doing
so with a good many others.
One summer afternoon, when he had been
a y,. al . a t Toongabbie, he was staggering and
lurching and panting towards the river as
one-sixteenth of the man-power that was
transporting a great beam of ironbark, des-
tinod for the barracks that were to be built
; n Parramatta’s George-street. It was stif-
]ingly ] lot —one of those days when it is an
oxei .tion and a penalty to take any exercise
at all, let alone to perform prodigious labor
undor the lash . Thc men lisped and sweated
iin( j jr rnn t e( j as they came down the last long
slopo to the r i VC rside, bending and yielding
a t knees and hips under their heavy burden,
y\’ith a parched mouth, Denis Malone, second
from the end—they were placed alternately
on cacl| si(](l of tht . i„ g _£ as muttering his
usl)a j „rayers
' ■'/•Vmmrc all, O do,l! Lighten our
h;irdetllt! pit y on m! Sav<; w
‘'Tie did not know that Mr. Samuel Jones.
the was diking beside him, nor
WJ|(j IMlrHcalarly MWaro that the close and
thundery weather was peculiarly exaspe,•at-
h to gentleman's never very sweet and
Pleasant temper. Suddenly he heard a snarl
almost in his ear.
“AH right, Malone, me lad. I l.eerd ye
a . swea rin’ at th’ Super., ye Gawd-forsaken
boK . trottor . Well, lie’s down at th’ river,
r „ |(>t him k whal - yft think of him. He’ll
V( , , )leaacd> , makes no doubt.”
vr ; . / • i i i , .. .
Mad as he was, Denis had learned that it
was wise not to make reply to remarks like
* ,cs ?’ save only such as signified respectful
receipt <>t 1 hem.
, '*• sir ’ ® ai( -
11 due course they came down to the hank,
dropped their burden and stood, dry-mouthed,
waiting Mr. Jones s permission to slake their
Deliberately, because the Superinten-
‘ £ w,,s standing a few yards off, talking
Wlth t,ie overseer, who saw to the timber’s
passage down the river, and after slaking his
ow,l < Jones. kept the thirst-tortured men a
Rood two minutes before giving the word,
I ’igbt, ye can take a drink,
As the men stumbled eagerly to the water-
side Mr. Jones walked over to the Super-
intendent. When Denis came up from the
water, he heard Mr. Tudor’s untuneful voice
bellowing his name.
“Malone, ye Irish , come over here.”
Fearfully, tin l prisoner obeyed. He stood
in front of the Superintendent and saluted
with his forefinger in the convict fashion.
Vaguely his eyes caught the two pistols stuck
in the belt encircling Mr. Tudor’s ample—
though not too ample—girth. The two over-
seers were behind him. A sudden, leaping
thought jumped into Denis’s confused mind.
"Ye d —d Croppy! Mr. Jones tells me he
heard ye say I was a son of a
on th’ way down from the timber. I'll
give ye fifty for that, ye rotten Irish dirt!
This evening, when ye get back to camp.
And I’ll tell ye what I'll do also. I’ll”—
But what Mr. Tudor’s further intentions
were remains a mystery. Malone took a
sudden step forward, both his hands shot out.
and before Black Mike knew what had hap-
pened, his two pistols were in the convict's
possession. There was a yell from the gang
at the waterside.
The next moment came the report of the
pistol in Malone’s right hand, and, his face
all bloody and shattered by the heavy ball,
Mr. Michael Tudor, Superintendent of Labor
at Toongabbie, pitched forward a dead man.
Malone turned and covered with the other
pistol the two paralysed overseers.
“Kill .Tones, Dinny,’’ yelled a voice from
amongst the' group of convicts. “We’ll fix
the other”—-
But Denis Malone did not fire, although
the corporal’s picket, a little way up the river
at the crossing-place, was running down.
“Stand there, ye two. I'm goin’ for to
say a prayer. Ye’re safe on less ye move.”
Hi' dropped upon his knees beside Mr.
Tudor’s body, still keeping the overseers
covered.
“O God,” Ik i prayed, “reccire th' sore I o’
this sinful, malm, an’ ha' marcy upon him,,
for hr nodes it.”
lie stood up and stepped towards Overseer
.Tones, who shrank away, his elbow shielding
bis face, expecting that his turn was come.
Bui Denis Malone presented the butt of (lie
pistol towards him.
“Here, take it, Mr. Jones. Ye can take
an’ hang me now. ’Tis tired I am. Tired
an’ weary. Ye may do what ye plaze wid
me.”
Almost in unison, the gang muttered and
grunted a chorus as the three soldiers cov-
ered them with their muskets:
'‘Mod Malone!”
Flowers of the Bush.
Exile.
Back of the range where the fringe-myrtle
flowers,
Back of the rampart, the time-riven scars.
All the bright moons weave a crown of gold
hours,
. All the blue midnight a cloud of white
stars.
Under and over in summer’s wild glory,
Shrined in my heart, in a sanctuary
strange,
Season oil season repeats the brave story
Of wild flowers back of the Wonderland
Range.
The heath bells of May like a tide running
on
Month after month in the river of years.
The dainty thryptomene comes and is gone,
The scented snow-myrtle, the silver-reed
spears,
The sarsaparilla in tangles of blue
Trailed through the glens that the rosy
dawns seek
Ever when Spring gaily musters anew
Her companies crowding Boronia Peak.
The mottled thrush sings on the mountain
recesses,
The magpies are warbling their hymn to
the morn;
The lowries flash scarlet in green wilder-
nesses,
The long tussock-grasses wave wide as the
corn.
The eagle sweeps out from his rooky lone
eyrie,
Splendid and fetterless —surely ’tis strange
To drag at the chains of a fate gone
aweary,
Far from the freedom of Wonderland
Range.
The wax-flower high in the heat of the noon,
The blue satin-lily set close to the ground,
The little wild heartsease that’s over too
soon,
The orchids that swing to a pixie-pipe’s
sound,
The mint-bush that’s scenting the slow north-
ern gales,
The golden spray swung where the Christ-
mas bush dallies
When, fainting and splendid, the dying year
fails
In amber and gold down the Wannon’s
grey valleys.
Tell me your story and whisper your thought!
Are you not weary of care and of fret?
Say of the strife, it is naught, it is naught!
All of the loneliness leave and forget,
You that grow tired of all things that are,
Hearts that grow harder and fears that
est range,
Turn to the old things and follow a star
Back to the steeps of the Wonderland
Range.
Back to the heights where the wild fuchsia
lingers,
Back to the hollows where swamp-heaths
are red ;
Harps of the trees by the wind’s magic
fingers
Weaving the glamor of days that are dead.
Star-like and clustered, 1 gather the bells
Unnamed and lovely, to blend in a strange
Glorious garland of bright immortelles
Gathered afar in tin 1 Wonderland Range.
VICTOR! A.
KATHLEEN DALZTEL.
It’s winter still in nil the towns,
With never a hint of spring;
But should you walk on Sussex Downs—
Why, that's a different thing.
There, there’s a laugh in the very way
The turf bounds back from your stride,
The tang of health in the silver spray
High-tossed by the rising tide.
The lieath-flowers bud with never a care,
The sky’s wind-swept of frowns;
Spring dances a-tip-toe everywhere
On the slopes of the Sussex Downs.
N.S.W.
P. M. HALLING.


f
iiV
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOL.MlsS ® CHI/KCH, Brisbane, rniumnn WFCT M C urifKV
N.Z. Onice—ll3-107 Featherston Street, Wellington. 1/UWbUMU WtM, N. 0. nALEO
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House/’ 485 Hourke Street, .Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH « CO., JUT!)., Adelaide, 8. A.
IF YOU DESIRE
TO REACH THE
TASMANIAN
BUYING PUBLIC
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
should carry your message.
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town and
Country—this Popular Weekly goes regularly
into the homes of the people, and each
issue is eagerly read by men, women and
children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest, with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays. Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 223
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: ‘Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street.
Cl)c fldcmiscr
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of "THE ADVERTISER” map be
obtained at all inter state agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price lid.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
WILSON, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone, MA3161.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
For Any Advertising Campaign in
Queensland Let Your First Choice Be
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
and its companion journal, “The Sunday Mail,”
Queensland’s big weekly newspaper and magazine.
“The Daily Mail” is the big morning paper with a
greater nett circulation than any other daily in the
State.
“The Sunday Mail” covers in one day the entire
metropolitan circulation of Brisbane’s four dailies.
For advertising rates and other particulars, please apply to
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-294 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE, Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydne..
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Always “First” in Queensland Advertising.
The BRISBANE COURIER
HAS AGAIN PROVED ITS SUPERIORITY AS
QUEENSLAND’S LEADING ADVERTISING
MEDIUM.
In 1927 the “Courier” carried 9,070 columns more than its
morning contemporary. In 1928 the “Courier” increased its
lead by 386 columns, making a grand total of 9,456 columns
over its morning contemporary.
It’s simply because the “COURIER” is first in Queensland in
CIRCULATION, ADVERTISING AND INFLUENCE.
Rate Cards and specimen copies from ROBT. D. FISHER,
74 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone. B 5007.
Published by the Brisbane "Newspaper Co., “Courier” Building, Queen
Street, Brisbane; also publishers of the “Queenslander ” and “Sports Referee.'’
i-JL
#
A WOMAN’S sensibilities
are finer, her enthusiasms
deeper than man’s. She
overworks, overplays, “ lives
on her nerves ” and is nearly
always constipated and suffers.
Women need Beecham’s Pills.
They bring colour to the
cheeks, sparkle to the eyes,
and quiet to the nerves by
stimulating healthy digestion
and regular complete elim-
ination.
Beecham’s Pills enable
woman to be at her best.
w
ISe f*.
K n
vSTn-7*
pills v.r
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR’’
contains everything that women
should know—from kitchen to
drawing-room, from cradle to
old age. It is the most remark-
able threepenny - worth ever
printed.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
u
'
3d.
s
V
The Centre of Tasmania’s
Progress and Prosperity.
“THE EXAMINER” is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricul-
tural, Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
“THE EXAMINER” has been published in Launceston
for 86 years, and is still the family newspaper of
Northern Tasmania.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner ’’ “Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express’ ’ obtainable from:
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd., Mr. V. W. Margetts, Mr. W. G. Dougin,
73-75 Patterson Street,
Launceston.
Melbourne.
701 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
śdfsd
p
o
0°
AC & % 6V "
Il6 il .-<■*&
2- 1 ' X
#»* rnr


thiitt ok a Me
iiiriiwtuiiiii
uiiimimuHi
mm\\m
S&s --.S3J Hr*
HIS BBSS L«
ggP. 1 vSSlPJIraBBE fc
jfbk a
j
H
89 ti
<■:«/.■■ U:-:
:
*
■Li:#
PBlCt
atnai
A Great
Australian
Industru —
j\/T ANY a good Australian has yet to realise the industrial importance of the
humble match. Based on it is a great Australian industry. In its
making, Australian capital to the tune of a million sterling is involved.
More than a thousand Australian work-people win from its production good
wages, good homes, and industrial content; whilst it makes many further con-
tributions to the general prosperity of the country. It is the largest customer of
many other Australian manufactures.
Such an industry is worth preserving . You
can help to preserve it —easily— without
cost, without trouble . All you have to do is
to insist on getting the Australian-made
match.
ALWAYS ASK FOR
BRYANT& MAYS
AUSTRALIAN MATCHES
jpT pmr— — ip" J ~|y
