

e
COOL
COMFORT
AFTER work or play in the heat of the sun there's
nothing yoirll better appreciate, nothing from
which you’ll derive more benefit, than a glass of
cool K.B. It effectively prevents exhaustion, re-
freshes and sustains under the most trying con-
ditions, and is the one essential to complete comfort
that is appreciated by everyone. Keep a bottle or
two in the ice-chest for the times when you’ll need it.
TOOTH’
Kl
a true LACE
limited, k fnt B_RjjWj_R^r_sypjnsy^
The Bulletin
°)ksu %/\AcCt AeAuai, y/l' (fl&cjwi vn, Jbntwf-, d&vd* 7iii 27
Vol. 50.—N0. 2557.
Wednesday, February 13, 1929.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


\Y7RITE FOR THE LIBRARY CATA-
. LOGTJE AND LISTS on all subjects,
winch will be .forwarded on application, post
free, to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD..
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNFY
SmeeJourng®
This BooK FREE to
SEND THE COUPON.
YOU!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
Please send , ■without obligation. your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
è
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
é
. 07
*?A
JO
<
~j
X,
UJ
o
cc
F
it/ (/j ?£
p™
C*
VDWO
TO
m
CD
A?
$
0
o
rn
0$
n
o
Behold me. King ot the Luck Bringers! Mind
you, I’m not an ordinary Tom Cat that stays
out all night, so my scattered parts cannot be
attributed to the careful aim of an annoyed
citizen resenting a courtship with I'abby on
the Tiles, Among my family inheritance is
a trick of being able to pull myself to pieces
at a moment’s notice, without disturbing my
genius for luck-bringing. Indeed, the person
who can put me together again has all the
luck. I have specially offered my services to
the N.S.W. Fire Brigades Art Union to test the
skill of the good people to whom I have
brought fortune and good luck for several
years.
There is money in this. In fact, there Is a
fortune. Ail yon have to do is to piece me
together so as to form a complete picture.
First send an application and enclose 5/
for a book of 6 tickets. This book
of tickets will be' sent to you, together
with a, leaflet containing my scattered parts,
looking just like the parts that appear in
this advertisement. You can sell or keep the
book of tickets, making a shilling on tbe
transaction. Or you can sell five and keep
one. The tickets are for the N.S.W. Fire
Brigades Art Union for £lO,OOO in prizes, the
first prize being a Solid Gold Helmet valued
at £3OOO, the largest prize for a shilling ever
offered in Australia. You may win this.
Now comes your next piece of good fortune.
There will be a special distribution of £5O in
prizes among those who send back the Incky
black cat pieced together correctly. The
amount will be distributed among those who
give the correct solution— First Prize £25.
Second Prize £lO, Third Prize £2. three
_ consolation prizes of £l, ten consolation
/he Nine Lives of a Cat in 23 hteces P r '* e ' o{ 10/. and 20 consolation prizes of
5/. It is yours for the glad hand.
* R n» g,S i e /oo : o 0, i r . name at onc f a £, dUion - lf y °« ret ain the 6th ticket, yon may win
£ o!?L pr . !( ; °F any of * h f °j,iFers. For six tickets you may win prizes valued at
over £.>ooo, including a casket of diamonds, a diamond tiara, and seven motor cars.
The closing date for the Lucky Black Cat Competition is Saturday, March 30. 1029.
It is the easiest piece of luck I have ever offered, and I have been in the luck
business since Noah Ire me and Tabitha out of the Ark.
Address all applications, with 5/ enclosed, to J. J. Neville, Hon. Secretary, Fire
Brigades Headquarters, 213 Castlereagh- treet, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE NEW SOUTH WALES FIRE BRIGADES’ ART UNION
FOR HOSPITALS, AMBULANCES, AND CHARITY.
_ „„„ , (Sanctioned by the Attorney-General)
£lO.OOO in Prizes. The most stupendous Prize List ever drawn up. Tickets: One
Shilling.
Six Tickets. 5/'; Twelve Tickets, 10/; Twenty-five Tickets, £l.
A Ticket a Day Keeps Misfortune Away!
Send at once. State whether Mr.. Mrs., or Miss enclosed stamped envelope
for result slip. Art Union Drawn on June 1, 1020.
J. J- NEVILLE. Hon. Secretary.
Fire' Brigades Headquarters, 213 Oasflereagh-street. Svdnev, N.S.W.
In Infancy.
Food
trade Mark,
J..28Q
When mother is unable
to nurse baby, the best food
is fresh cows' milk, suitably
modified. Benger’s has
proved itself to be one of
the best of milk modifiers.
Send lor Benger’s Booklet, post free,
BENGERS FOOD, Ltd,
350, GArge Street, SYDNEY.
/>
thi VENUS"
plans the utorld
The first rough suggestion—the skilfu
and accurate working out, the share
detailed drawings, all the preliminary
planning necessary to the carrying out ol
constructive effort, call for the use of VENUS
PENCILS. Whether it be for the billlding of a
battle-ship or the design of a sinfple household
article, the pencil is the first requirement: the
VENUS the first pencil.
ê
17 Blacklead Degrees 68-9 H sd. each - 4/9 per dozen. Super C
each « 5/9 per dozen. Venus Copying (Medium & Hard)
l (Medium & Hard) 6d
:h ■ 3/9 per dozen.
ë
HOUSE FLIES
ARE POTENT
CARRIERS OF
DISEASE AND
KILL THAT FLY.
MUSTDIE'
IS NOT A GERMAN
POWDER.
Sold Everywhere.
PRICE 1/-
The Red Page
THE YORICK
3. Richard Hengist Horne.
Richard Hengist Horne, a strong-brained
man (with body to match), divided his life
between intellectual effort and worldly
adventure. He spent 17 years in Australia,
during which time he became, step by step,
commander of a gold escort, commissioner
of Crown lands, and territorial magistrate.
Meanwhile, through literature, he had
grown to be almost within the aura of the
really great; so that Carlyle attested to “the
fire of stars, which was within him”; in-
spirational praise, radiating glory round the
baid who chose, as subject for his muse,
the giant of the sky.
It was towards the end of 1848 that Horne
published the famous “Farthing Elpic”; so
called on account of its price (magnifique
et pas cher): and his stipulation with the
booksellers is well known, viz., that “no
individual should be supplied with more
than a single copy; and that no copy should
be sold to any person who mispronounced
the title, ‘Orion.’ ”
That Horne contemplated further publi-
cation is proved by a letter (October 7,
1862), written in reply to G. G. McCrae,
who had suggested himself as illustrator:—
If you could illustrate “Orion,” it would give me
great pleasure to bring out a second Australian
edition. But surely you .forget that it would require
not only the classic knowledge and sentiment and
taste which you possess, but a mastery over the’
human figure. Gods and goddesses and demigods
and giants must all be nobly stark naked! Can
you do this ? Of course I do not know.
Edgar Allan Poe wrote concerning this
work that in all which regards “the loftiest
and holiest attributes of true poetry, ‘Orion’
has never been excelled. Indeed, we feel
strongly inclined to say it has never been
equalled ‘Orion’ will be admitted by
every mart of genius to be one of the
noblest, if not the very noblest, poetical
work of the age.”
An enthusiast, and never a scorner; no,
wonder, then, if the presence of this English-
man in Victoria drew poets together. He
brought them courage, saw merit in their
songs; and, with truest admiration for
Henry Kendall, adjudged him master of
them all. It has been said, jealously no
doubt, that Home, deciding a poetry com-
petition in favor of Kendall, was influence!!
and flattered by the fact that the winner
had embodied in his attempt two lines
taken (quite unchanged) from something
which Horne himself had written. Kendall
did this, indeed; but we cannot believe he
would consciously plagiarise, or crawl, or
truckle to anybody.
Home loved bugles and drums; he took
care not, to hide himself on public occasions,
so that wherever a flag was flying lie was
sure to be found there also. Furthermore,
he was a notorious dresser-up, Verified by
the evidence of Melbourne inhabitants who
had seen him at the St. Kilda Baths attired
as a Pilgrim Father; and again, on the
evening of the same day, transmogrified
info an Iberian buck twanging a. guitar at
the Hay market Theatre (1869).
Horne began his education at Sandhurst,
bid- with such a maggot in his brain that he
broke bounds and disappeared out of Eng-
land. We next hear of him as an officer
in the “Spanish Patriot Navy,” salving
boxes of dollars while cannons hammered
and thundered. A year or so later hfe
trekked among American Indians, nearly
losing his life at Niagara; and again, bv
shipwreck, in the Gulf of St. Lawrence.
Eventually he signed aboard a timber vessel
bounds for Liverpool from Nova Scotia;
this craft was set on fire by mutineers in
mid ocean, and never expected to make
port; but stagger home she did—and
Richard Hengist with her.
Wo. write “Hengist,” although he was not
Hengist then; Richard Henry were all
the names the poet’s godfathers and
godmothers gave him at his baptism;
and it was only after he had encountered
Mr. Hengist, a good Samaritan in the
Australian bush, that the alteration (or
addition) in nomenclature took place.
Richard loved his Hengist dearly; he
liked to see it written in gilt letters across
the covers of his books; and, on his pro-
nunciation of the word, everybody within
hearing felt it was a duty to stand up.
Examine the photograph by Batchelder and
observe Home looking his Hengist. How
carefully negligent is the arrangement of
curls; and with how much art has he trained
the folds of his cloak to He across his
shoulder! A piece of thcatricalism
An Iberian Buck.
altogether in keeping with the happy vanity
of the man.
Again, in 1867, whjn the Duke of Edin-
burgh came to Australia, Horne placed him-
self among the epauletted people; remem-
bering, and making it his business to tell
each of them individually, how he also had
worn blue and gold as an officer of the
“Spanish Patriot Navy.”
His favorite dish was pheasant with cold
potatoes; but he was a devil for exercise,
even to the extent of “doing stunts” on a
horizontal bar by moonlight;-' aetat 70!
On one occasion he gave Birnie a recipe
for chocolate which required (besides coco-
beans and sugar) Indian com, cinnamon,
cloves, capsicum—and musk! Birnie tried
the experiment, of making some, and nearly
died from the effect; but Horne, who wa’s
not, surprised, remarked that he had been
unable to concoct it himself. He said the
best he ever tasted was made by a negro
at some tropical eyot he had visited during
his wanderings in 1825. Horne saw the
fellow among his galley pots; and he used
to relate how the sweat pouring down the
operator’s arms and cheeks fell into the
bubbling chocolate underneath. Perhaps it
was this which contributed the peculiar
flavor and ensured its success!
Sometimes he would make his heart merry
with wine; and, even on a visit to friends,
liked to be certain that this idiosyncrasy
should not be overlooked:—
Can T come to your house on Saturday night at
iv o'clock and examine the rest of the portfolio?
Pray assure Mrs. McCrae, and Miss MoCrae, also,
that my leading Idea in this is not a. curry ! But,
to be honest, 1 shall certainly remind Mrs! MeCrae
of the “bottle” she promised.
Horne was a summer-hearted man; he.
had a passion for conversation, food, bright
colors, spurs and swords and diamonds....
hair-breadth escapes. He would have given
his life-blood to succor a friend.
In 1847 he married a daughter of James
Foggo, the artist; but we hear hardly any-
thing of her,. Whether she died soon after
the union or remained in England during
her husband’s sojourn in Australia is a
matter left entirely to conjecture.
Horne knew Elizabeth Barrett Browning
intimately; and. at one time, collaborated
with her in a work of literary criticism en-
titled “A New Spirit of the Age.”
1n'1874, after his return from the anti-
podes, the Disraeli Ministry granted him a
Civil List pension of £5O, subsequently in-
creased to £lOO. He wrote bits here and
there; but nothing that was comparable to
the famous “Farthing Epic.” He gave up
his picturesque ghost, at Margate, on
March 13, ISB4.
HUGH McGRAE.
(Continued on page 5.)


Saturday next definitely is the last day of
Anthony Horderns'
‘•Truth in Advertising
our guarantee and your
assurance.
GENUINE
Open until9p.m.
Every Friday.
You Have only three and a-Half days
to save £l5/10/- on this
cMelodici
c ' Pht/er
The “Melodia” Player Piano is obtainable
only at Anthony Horderns’, and carries the
guarantee of absolute satisfaction. The
“Melodia” is a beautiful instrument, and is
constructed entirely of the highest-grade
materials, and consequently will retain its de-
lightful tone and lovely appearance. It has
perfect action, and is easily adjusted. No dis-
mantling for tuning. As simple as it is possible to
make a player, whilst preserving its efficiency.
The operator has complete control of expression,
and the key can be altered to suit the singer.
Pedals extremely sensitive. Automatic tracking
device and all the newest details of construction
combined with a beautiful tone. Standard
Model. Price, £145.
Sale Price, £129/10/-
De Luxe Model. Price, £lB5.
Sale Price, £159/10/-
Dept., Second Floor. Delivered Free City and
Suburbs only.
e
BUY A “MELODIA” PLAYER NOW —LET OUR D.P.S. HELP YOU
This is an opportunity you should not miss, so why not make use of our Deposit-Purchase System? Simply leave
a small deposit on this Player Piano now, and pay the balance at your convenience. The Player will be delivered
when final payment has been made. The Cash Sale Price only is charged. No interest.
Anthony Horderns’
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Posta / Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O.


w
SHE highest honor the people
of Australia can confer on
any motor-car has been
bestowed on the New Nash
“400.” They think it is great.
They have given it their good
opinion!
This car is the blazing,
triumphant success of recent
months, with more Nash Cars
sold since its introduction than
in any similar period of Nash
History.
All because other new cars do
not measure up to the New
“400” standards of excellence.
Comparison proves this beyond
all question.
This is the car with the new twin
ignition, high compression,
valve-in-head motor. The finest
power plant built for any motor-
car.
The “400” is the easiest steering
car the motor industry has ever
produced. It is the easiest riding
—with longer wheelbases,
Houdaille or Lovejoy hydraulic
shock absorbers as standard
equipment, and new alloy
springs individually designed for
each model.
And above all, the new and
refreshing note of style origi-
nated by the new “400” Salon
body marks it for admiration
wherever you drive it.
Good words everywhere for the
good taste which created it.
Distributors jor New South Wales:
WILLSFORD, LTD.,
132*134 Phillip Street,
SYDNEY.
’Phones: 8W2291 (5 lines).
Distributors for Victoria and Tasmania:
RICKARDS BROS. PTY., LTD.,
567-573 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE, Cl.
’Phone: F3l I 4.
Distributors for Queensland:
PEELS, LTD.,
407-431 Stanley Street,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
’Phone: J 1561,
Distributors for South Australia
AUTOCARS, LTD.,
58-72 Flinders Street,
ADELAIDE.
’Phone: Central 5500.
Distributors for West Australia:
ERIC MADDREN MOTORS, LTD.,
996 Hay Street,
PERTH.
’Phones: 85610, B 7634.
The Gar with the
Twin Ignition Motor
- f?
m
Leads the world in
Motor-car Value.


Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
IN CO-OPERATION WITH
ŵ
WAGONS-UTS CO.
The only Firm with permanent
offices all over the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiassed
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on file for
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own accommodation.
By booking through Cooks, whether
travelling first, second or third class,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other trav''
organisation.
ESCORTED TOURS TO EUROPE.
ALL CLASSES Leaving February, March,
April. We are the pioneers of Escorted
Travel, and having our own offices through-
out Europe, are the only Tourist Firm
properly equipped to handle such business.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street,
ADELAIDE:
49 Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building.
Queen Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEYs
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).
Women Novelists in Australia
A first effect of The Bulletin’s prize
novel competitions will evidently be to
establish a school of Australian women-
novelists. The movement was coming,
sooner or later, in any event; for women,
given half a chance, are better natural story-
tellers than men. The works of Sheila
Kaye-Smith, Rose Macaulay, G. B. Stem
and one or two others are selling as well
in Britain now as any novels by men, and
it is not too much to expect that writers
of first-class ability like Katharine Prich-
ard and the authors of “A House Is
Built” will win big publics before long in
England and the U.S.A. And the same
applies to members of their sex whose
Australian novels are still unborn.
Of course they will meet with opposition.
And here is a remarkable aspect of a
problem which faces most budding women-
writers. Opposition will not come from
established novelists; it will not come from
professional critics, who are notably en-
couraging to novices as a rule, and it cer-
tainly will not come from publishers or
their readers. The women-writers will find
the most unreasonable and exasperated
objectors to their adventures in self-expres-
sion amongst their intimate women friends,
and above all amongst their female rela-
tions.
I have known about half a dozen Aus-
tralian women who have succeeded in
getting books—some good, some not so
good—published fin London. All without,
exception aroused the worst passions of
those of their own sex who were nearest
and dearest to them. Revulsion was ex-
pressed, as a rule, by a tight-lipped silence
when the offending work was mentioned.
The sort of atmosphere was created which
might be produced in a vicarage drawing-
room by the announcement that the
speaker’s father had just been given a term
of penal servitude. But now and then in-
dignation burst all bounds, and it was
pointed out with the incoherence of strong
emotion that here was the rottenest, the
most unreal and futile and disgracefully in-
competent novel that had ever been written!
The phenomenon is not confined to Aus-
tralia, of course. When the writer of “The
Constant Nymph” had her first book pub-
lished, the hostility of the Cathedral city
in which she lived with her mother was
so great that the family found it more com-
fortable to leave for a while; and when she
produced what was probably the best novel
of 1925-26, old ladies whom she had known
since childhood cut her dead. Australian
society is like an English Cathedral city in
one sense; its literary tastes are not par-
ticularly discriminating. The initiative
which distinguished members of the A.I.F.
is not often found in the 8 p.c. of our
women-folk who, according to the librarians,
read modern fiction. They extend their
favors usually to accepted names—Michael
Arlen, Gilbert Frankau, Ethel Dell—and
they distrust the unfamiliar.
This does not explain, however, the wrath
which is engendered in normally affection-
ate and appreciative female hearts' by the
imaginative writings of their women-friends.
I do not believe that jealousy, or any such
ignoble sentiment, enters into the matter.
In point of fact, the most embittered are
nearly always those who have never thought
of writing anything more original than a
cheque. The thing that maddens them
seems to be the sudden discovery that, dur-
ing all these uncritical, platitudinous years,
they have been nursing to their bosoms a
derisive viper with a disreputable mind.
The girl who talked so conventionally, and
looked so prim, stands revealed as a sharp-
eyed hussy, with a, knowledge of the darker
sides of life so intimate as to cast doubts
on her virtue. Useless to suggest that
creative genius is like that; that “Madem-
oiselle de Maupin,” for example, was
written when the author had barely left
school. Faces grow harder at the mention
of what is apparently a French novel; a
fresh stream of invective is released.
Such are the discouragements which a
woman-writer is far more likely to find in
an Australian city or town than in cosmo-
politan, easy-going London or Paris. But
there is the consideration that objections
vanish like morning mists before the first
dawnings of world-success. And, on the
financial side, it is an unfortunate fact that
the disapproval of Australian readers does
not perhaps matter much. A novelist would
have to sell 20 editions of 1500 apiece in
the Commonwealth to make as much as
The Bulletin pays in the form of one
prize.
JOHN DALLEY.
The Freelance Again
That the Australian and N.Z. Writers’ and
Artists’ Year Book, edited by C. V. Ring-
stad and W. E. Fitz Henry, has run into a
second edition is evidence that the free-
lance actually exists. Many editors have
doubted the fact. They are daily assaulted
with a fresh tide of nondescript manuscript.
It is signed with engaging noms de guerre,
with real names and real addresses
appended, sometimes on every sheet. Fre-
quently it is accompanied with a covering
letter, plaintive, wailing, cocky or apologetic
and not unseldom longer—and just as un-
grammatical—as the contribution itself.
Some go straight into the waste basket,
some are resignedly cut down by nine-
tenths, a few—a very few—are greeted with
the mechanical alacrity with which busy
editors treat a tried and crafty wielder of
the pen. But that there is a personality,
a striving human organism replete with
heart, liver, hopes, fears, ideals, and even
occasionally a brain, behind each and every
one of these offerings, seldom—and quite
naturally—comes into the editorial head.
I know at least one victim of
cacoethes scribendi (otherwise quite sane)
who has been trying unsuccessfully to
get, into print for over 20 years.
If you suggested that he devote a
similar period to becoming a champion
pugilist he would reject the advice with
scorn. Yet he has as much chance of en-
countering Gene Tunney as of meeting
favor in an editor’s eye. He must write
just as others must love.
For such unfortunates this year book
should prove a boon. It may induce them
to sublimate their vice into a passion for
golf. For those who have something to
say instead of merely an itch to say some-
thing it offers all the previous features, as
well as some new. The list of publications
and the idiosyncrasies of their editors—
those who pay and those who don’t, tfyose
who for some extraordinary reason require
a preliminary letter and those who see red
and a writer’s nose simultaneously—has been
brought up to date and a surprisingly long
list it is—62 pages in all. In addition, there
are some new special articles which make
admirable reading for laymen as well as
clerical. Cecil Mann’s article on how to
build a novel is not only an engaging bit
of writing, but informative to a degree. He
was one of the judges of the first Bulletin
Novel Competition and the memory of
terrible experiences rings through his words.
One imagines him deeply lined and' pre-
maturely grey. He has some discerning
remarks on that elusive thing, atmosphere,
an essential of long-story writing which
every writer thinks he has at his command.
Looking ahead, the editors print an article
on “Scenario Writing” by Gwen Arden.
What a queer form of art it is—the result
of a liaison between Euclid and a Meccano
set, I fear.
If one feels the need for joining issue
with the compilers of this annual, it is with
regard to Mr. Fitz Henry’s ideas about
journalistic art. In the present writer’s
experience, few art schools do a journalistic
artist any good and most of them do him
a great deal of harm. The only school I
might send a son to would be one in which
the object to be drawn was in one room
while the easel was in another. What the
journalistic artist needs is not drawing from
life, but a memory as receptive of impres-
sions as wax. The most competent car-
toonist in Australia got this sort of training
by force majeure. His parents wanted him
to be a farmer. He wanted to draw.
He fixed up a hiding-place in an old
packing-case into •* which he retired
whenever the old man was looking the
other way. There was not enough light
inside to draw from life, so he tried to
record the last thing the knife-like sun-
shine of the mallee had etched on his brain.
To-day he.ean faithfully put down on paper
an intricate piece of furniture or machinery
seen five years before.
This year book is well worth the half-
crown. Messrs. Ringstad and Fitz Henry
have added a free service department where-
at the incipient freelance can resolve his
doubts, if not get absolution for his sins.
M.G.S.
A Satchel of Books
Red Rust, by Cornelia Cannon (Hodder
and Stoughton; Dymock’s). This is de-
scribed by the publishers as a first novel, and
as such is a remarkable achievement. The
story is set in a Swedish pioneer community
of Minnesota (U.S.A.) and tells of the
fierce and unrelenting struggle with prairie
and forest land for little else but the right
to live after a fashion, and finally to die
even more uninterestingly. In this environ-
ment, Matts Swensson grows up to be
regarded as something different by his con-
freres, avlio regard him as queer, since he
is fond of wasting, in reading books and in
endeavoring to breed a rust-resisting wheat,
time that might be employed on work. Of
his untiring struggles and enthusiasm, and
of the untimely death that cuts him off from
the fruits of success, the writer tells with
a stark simplicity which is vivid and com-
pelling. The character drawing is in keep-
ing with the truth and sincerity of the story
and of its setting.
The Deuce, by Alfred Neumann (Heine-
mann). A picture painted in fire and blood of
the restoration of that France of the Middle
Ages which, wrecked and disrupted by the in-
terminable strife with England and Bur-
gundy, was given over to robber nobles and all
manner of lesser banditti. How Louis XL.
living epitome of spider-web intrigue and
remorseless cruelty, literally hanged his dis-
traught people back to peace and industry
is the motif of the story, though a sex in-
terest which is not warranted by history is
interwoven. The portrayal of that terrible
trinity. Louis, Oliver le Daim ' (for 20
years Prime Minister-barber and The Deuce
of the story) and Tristram le Hermite
(of all hangmen in history the most infamous),
is done with convincing artistry and with a
weird psychological insight. Others, in-
cluding Scott and Hugo, have dealt with this
period and the strange folk who had their
being in it; but even the mighty author of
“Notre Dame” has not brought the times and
the men home to the reader so arrestingly
as the author of this, the latest exploration of
a fruitful field.
Gilbert and Sullivan, by Lillian Bradstock
(Palmer). What Lamb and. to a lesser
extent, Quiller-Couch have made of the stories
that are the basis of Shakspeare’s plays this
author tries to do with the unrealities that
lurk beneath the Gilbert and Sullivan operas.
That very unreality defeats her. A great
humorist might possibly give it a twist”that
would make such a book readable, but this
writer is not a humorist.
Answers to Correspondents.
.Vo notice (except oj a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped,
yame and address must appear on the MS. Vo liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
R.W.T.: Passable, but not distinguished
in any way.... Crosshead: Can’t you see the inan
was leg-pulling?... .C.F.8.: Very good use of very
old material... .S.N.R.: Yes, but not one-fourth of
our people read the original.... W.E.W.: Just failed
to draw the weight... .Antrid: You are not a tidy
thinker, or if you think tidily your typewriter
makes hash of your thoughts... .H.N.W.: Miles off.
. ...Q.T.: You’re an enthusiast, anyway. .. .Bertie:
Boomerang. .. .H.P.: Spirit more admirable than
verse. .. . W.McX.: Still misses. .. .W.J.: Frankly,
they’re not promising. ... 8.C.: Keep at it —you
have a long way to g0....L.F.:
I sit and ponder,
Just wrapped in thought.
Yes, it has been warm... . K.B. J.: You shout too
much.... Hose B.: Very p00r... .Aril.: Not half
exciting enough for its length. ... D. I).: Have never
read anything “by a girl of 12” that was any good,
but will be glad to oblige. ... Heat Wave (Dry
hake): No wonder!... .5.11.: Returned, without
regret.... Midge B.; An idea there but not well
used A.P.0.: Out—in fact, counted out J.D.:
Not quite up....C.8.: Why don't you go and tell
her ?... . L.F.P.: Says nothing at all. ... J.S.W.: Just
n dreary list... .Spence: Almost good enough for
this colupin. .. .5.11. C.: Send it to. the paper con-
cerned G.T.C.: Skit less interesting' than its
subject. .. .11.II.L.: Uninspired . jingling. .. .Hal
Holt: Heavyweight foolery... .R. A. B. :, Youi make
heavy weather for “The Hulk”... . 8.T.: A bit early
with that spring pocin, aren’t you?... .Farm Hand:
hot of neat typing to say such an untidy little....
W. 11.: You’re another outed by lack of space....
5.0.: Too slight ... .E.L.It.: “Six hundred words.”
Ye. 1 ., that about describes it... .L.M.8.: Too much
conversation; not enough topic.... Horn B.: Yours
is only the fourth article on Casanova received
thin week... .C.V.T.: It’s unsuitable; but you’re a
genius to the people that stir your sympathy....
Salinn: Mussolini article almost as heavy as Benito’s
Ktni e.. . .P.O’R.: Can’t fit it in. .. .1.W.: Interest
to i restricted. .. .Meridian: Too much like a tract.
. ...H.D.: Both a little off the track. .. .Toongoo-
roo: Says little. .. .F.M.McG.: Very nearly....
Ted: Just a careless string of sentences. .. .R.A.R.:
Should be a home for it somewhere... .W.T.-W.:
Article rather milky.... R.G.: That topic has had a
fair innings. .. .C.M.:: Sorry, can’t find room for it.
H.McI.: Off the track.... Komediak: That sub-
ject’:) been overdone... .A.G.W.: Almost you per-
suaded us....Quien Sabe: Who knows why anyone
should perpetrate such rubbish ?... .Author of “The
Biter Bitten”: No bites here.... J.W.: The merest
sob-stulf f.E.S.: “A Sense of Humor” makes no
appeal to ours... .S.C.: About as convincing as a
nightmare... .J.S.L.; The mining warden who boasts
of being worth the better part of half a million
is interesting but incredible... .John O’Merlin: No
use sending along things that have been in print
ten thousand times and asking if they are any
use. They aren’t.—Jaysee: Not far off. .. .Motuiti
Pirati: “Rori’s Final Flutter” was towards the dis-
card, but a little more craftsmanship might have
saved it....8.W.: The theme might do if the tell-
ing were not so trite.... L.H.J.: There’s merit in
it, but why throw it together in such a higgledy-
piggledy way ?. .. . J.C.8,: That mutilated head is
a bit too strong.... P. Bar: Crude.... Hornsby:
Voting at N.S.W. prohibition poll: Yes, 357,684 ;
No, 896,752 ; inf., 13,683. Yes carried no electorate
(90) and only a sprinkling of polling-places; Bee-
oioft'(6o4 tu. 494) and Warrawee (255 to 163) in
the Hornsby division were among its few gains....
Haka: Maoriland • has the lowest crude death-rate
(number of deaths per 1000 of mean population)
ip the world, and Australia comes next. Latest
available figures: M,L., 8.7; Australia, 9.4; Canada,
il.4_; England and Wales, 11.6; U.S., 12.1; Italy,
ljj.B; France, 17.5; Japan, 19.2; Soviet Republics,
22.9; Chile, 27.2.. ..Tam: Glad to hear Launceston
is making its municipal tramways pay; still, the
corporation has had a struggle. There were small
deficits for the years 1917-18 to ’2l-’22 inclusive;
fairly good surpluses for the three ensuing years
(£7731 in ’23*’24) ; another small debit balance
in ’2o-’26; a surplus of 2656 in ’26-’27, and one
of £5045 last year. Afraid a pub with a good bar
trade would do better... .0.R.L.: Hopeless....
A.L.t^.: No use. .. .Spinifex Bill: As wild and woolly
as your* spelling J.E.S.: No room in our gallery
for the parson who sets his church afire because his
wife has bolted with Murphy... .K.E.: There’s
hardly a story in it....11.R.: A would-be wife-
poisoner deserves something more than' a stiff dose
of castor 0i1... .C.W.D.11.: Sandford-and-Merton
stories; the nearest they ever come to being
printed is when they inspire a parody on the
Smoke-oh page Vermont: We’ve moved up and
made room:—
A neighbor once, with kindly thought,
Gave me Tup Bum.ptin he had bought.
And so l came to like the book,
When through its pages I had a look.
Its pages are full of various tilings
That to my heart enjoyment brings,
i read the answers to correspondents
Anil feel sure there are some despondents.
But I just feel rather curious,
Wondering if the Editor is ever furious.
Bless your heart, no. He enjoys it. ...T.5.1.: Don’t
advise you to do it. You'll certainly find it easy
enough to buy Nanderra: No, in those times
(’B7) N.S.W. elections were usually held on threa
days—at three or four days’ interval. So it hap-
pened that Joey Carruthers was elected to N.S.W.
Assembly three days ahead of Tommy Walker—
former now an N.S.W. M.L.C., latter now Speaker
of Westralian Assembly.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
S.A.: The call is for humorous drawings,
and you send an architectural exhibit... .N.V.:
Figures in foreground badly balanced; joke lym-
phatic G.P.: The way you dig into the bristol
board suggests that you’re an energetic gardener....
1.M.; It won’t d 0.... W.8.H.: The less said about
it the better. .. .P.H.: Eliminate those scratches and
you may catch an editor’s eye. . . .D.S.: They’re
limping home... .N.A.W. No. . . .D.K.: Tattered art
and strained humor. .. .F.E.: That “horse” has the
hindquarters of a Berkshire boar. .. . E.N.K.: Don’t
be mournful.... D.E.R.: Locked out.. .. E.L.R.: A
wasted effort R.W.: Both left at the post....
D.M.M.: Tramps turned down. .. . F.J.: Hopelessly
out of proportion... .F. A.: Overworked gag; under-
dressed girls G.H.J.: The little child . shall not
lead us to, accept that cartoon.


ẁ


The Bulletin
Vol. 50. —No. 2557.
February 13, 1929.
HATS OFF!
“Hats off to the rising generation of great players!” says the London Star. “I take off my hat to Hammond,” says Mr. Clem Hill. "We take off om hats to Jackson an
Bradman,” says almost every English paper. “We take off our hats to White and Hammond,” says almost every Australian paper.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspapei
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
SII/ George Street, Sydney.
iC'roniA: 111/-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 2)9 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
outh Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
'Vestralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : SC Southampton Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
ree to ANY addiiesr in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 ) s .; 6 months, 12s. Cd.;
3 months, 7s.
a 1° A,,,)I!ESS Overseas : 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, los. Cd.j 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
COP'?*-—Commonwealth, New Zealand and
.O ' ld - United Kingdom: )oz. to 10oz., lid.:
each additional )oz., Id. All Sea Houle; ICoz., lid
Possessions and V.S.A.: )oz. or part tliereoi
Id. hlsewhere, 2qz., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED page literary ARTICLES .. 2, 5
“ORION” HORNE’S LIFE AND lACTTKRS 2
WOMEN NOVELISTS .... . G
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .’. •
IIIE FRONT PAGE—By Leuson . 7
EDITORIALS ■ g 9
John Bull, Protectionist. . .. 8
NEW ZEALAND’S FINANCES 8
THE THREAT OF PLAGUE .. .. 8
TRAMS OR ’BUSES ” " s
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL ..’ ‘ g
POLITICS (with caricatures) .. .. .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. __ 11 12
PERSONAL (with caricatures) .. ~ .. 13
ARCHBISHOP KELLY HAS A BIRTHDAY 13
WILD CAT” COLUMNS . . .. 16
Sydney Ferries .. 14
The A.P.A. i 4
POVERTY POINT .. .. 17
“MAROONED”—Cartoon by Scorfield .. 17
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. i 8
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 19 og
MAN ON THE LAND -.. 2 ,’ ?5
PRIZES FOR FARMERS .. '
HINTS ON AUTUMN CROPS .. .. 22
Free Service Department 26
SMOKE-O H .... o 8
“BRACKEN” ;; 30 44
PEN AND PICTURE 33
TALKIES START IN MELBOURNE .. . ! 33
SPORTING (Illustrated) ~ .. .. 35 37 39
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE .. .. ’ .40
How the Talkie is Worked .. ..40
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 42
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP . . . . "43
Three Complete Stories—
“THE SKULL,” by Arthur H. Adams .. 47
“DIPPY-STR'EET, DILLYVILLE,” by Randolph
Bedford - . . . . . . . . 49
* MOTOR-CARS AND MARTHA,” by Furnley
Maurice .. .. .. .. . . 50
VE R SE 44. 47. 50
7?ufssuUefon
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1929.
JOHN BULL, PROTECTIONIST.
Ti-ie question of a “safeguarding” duty on
British textiles came up for definite con-
•, , • , ~ , , , ,
s.dcraticm when ‘he trade-unions involved
decided that their old Frectrade god was a
busted idol. The term “Protection” is still
avoided, for obvious reasons, but the other
serves the purpose well enough. It already
permits the charging of 50 per cent, duty on
optical instruments and the materials used
in their manufacture; of 33i per cent, on
electrodes, buttons, clocks, watches and
parts thereof, on gloves, cutlery, magnetos,
on lace (cotton, silk and any other sort,
hand-made or machine-made), embroidery,
wireless valves, on certain metals, on motor-
cars and parts, synthetic chemicals, scien-
tific instruments and parts, and on articles
made of real or artificial silk. In fact,
“safeguarding” has got so far that there are
169 specified ways of running against a
stiff Customs duty in the British tariff,
and John Bull has hardly a manufacturing
industry that makes a decent living now
without Protection.
One reason why so many college profes-
sors and others still point to Britain as a
shining example of adhesion to Freetrade
is simply the backwardness of their, educa-
tion. They don’t study year-books and
keep up to date; on this matter the head
of Svdnev Public Librarv once tnvp tho
opinion that only one adult Australian m
four ever reads any kind of book, and his
neglect to give the names of the other
three was unfortunate. Consequently
figures showing recent progress like the
following are less familiar than they should
be . 17
Saji, ’ les of BItITISH MAXIM i9 I I3 DuTIES i 9IB
Beer (36 gallons) .. .. £1 18 8 £23 11 0
Buttons (p.c. Of value) .. Free 33 6 s
SSC,t h rpi P S°V»t'! RS S 0 }
Cutlery (p.c. of value) .. Free 33 6 8
Lac-o (p.c. of value) .. .. Free 33 6 8
Sr&Kt&SSSg SX S 5 2
Spirits (per gallon) .. ..£l4 1 600
Tobacco (per lb.) .. .. 4 8 12 io
fL’" a ar Pi (per a cwt ) P ’ C ‘ 0f value) Fr f\ 0 10 if a
Motor-cars (p.c. of value) .. Free 33 6 8
Lace (p;e. of value) .. .. Free 33 6 8
Pottery (per cwt.) .. . . Free 18 0
The British custom is that when both
the employers and the unions in any trade
want it protected the matter is taken into
prompt consideration. Hitherto the iron-
workers have held aloof, though they show
signs of coming to a more rational frame of
mind. The reduction in the number of blast
furnaces in_ operation from 318 in 1918 to
141 in 1925 was impressive enough. But
the iron men have been loath to tear them-
selves away from the teachings of such horny-
handed toilers as Ramsay MacDonald,
ex-secretary and ex-editor, and Philip
Snow den, one-time civil servant and after-
wards journalist and lecturer. The textile
workers, on the other hand, have thrown in
the sponge, and want their occupation to be
a Freetrade survival no longer. It was
explained to the Board of Trade that 102
manufacturers had closed down in 10 years,
and that 25,690 operatives had gone out of
the business since 1922. Of those who re-
mained nominally in the business some 33,000
weren’t really in at the moment, being out
of jobs and living on hope and the scanty
dole. Of the Bradford looms less than 40
per cent, worked full time; 23 per cent,
worked at odd times and more or less, and
37 per cent, failed even to do that. Imports
were formerly one-eighteenth the size of
the local output, but as they had risen to
four-eighteenths and the foreigners had also
taken a lot of J. Bull’s old export trade,
the British factories naturally wear the
aspect of skeletons.
OUR CREDIT AND OUR NEIGHBOR’S.
Maoriland obtained its recent loan in Lon-
don at £4 16s. sd. per cent, interest, Avhile
the Commonwealth of Australia, following
close after, had to pay £5 2s. 3d. per cent.
If Australia’s credit had been as good as
Maori land’s and if it had put the amount
saved into a real sinking fund, not a paper
fake, the accumulation should have been
sufficient to pay off half the loan when it
fell due; which reads almost like getting
millions of money for nothing. The average
interest paid on the Maoriland public debt
in 1926 was £4 7s. sd. per cent. The
average rate on the Australian State debts
in the same year was £4 17s. and on the
Federal debt £5 3s. lid. per cent. Yet at
the beginning of the century Australia’s
credit was the better of the two; it paid
£3 12s. 7d. per cent, on its debt, while Maori-
land paid £3 14s. 2d. This advantage con-
tinued until the war. The fact that both
rates have increased to such an extent
shows that war is costly, and also reveals
the folly of pursuing an intemperate loan
policy when money is scarce and dear. The
fact that the interest rate of Australia has
gone up so much more than that of Maori-
land is a sign of the still greater folly of
acquiring a bad name and carefully culti-
vating a dissipated reputation.
From a purely financial standpoint the
Dominion across the Tasman Sea has
nothing much to boast of. Its total debt in
1927 was £l7O 19s. sd. per inhabitant; Aus-
tralia’s (State and Federal) was £169 4s. Bd.
On the bare figures this country thus makes
the better showing of the two. Moreover,
Prime Minister lOUsepii Ward, back in
office after 16 years of partial eclipse, has
a scheme for raising £70,000,000 abroad in
seven or eight years, about one-seventh for
railway construction, and the rest for ad-
vances to settlers and the making of a
needless and probably disastrous land boom.
When Australia can’t compete on level
terms in the British money market against
a small Government burdened with a wild
cat of that size, something must be amiss.
The extra interest charge looks unplea-
santly like an insurance against the risk
of premeditated default.
Australia stood out conspicuously during
the Great War by its rejection of com-
pulsory military service. It rather distin-
guished itself by movements for dragging
Australia out of the war and granting the
Hun easy terms. It developed a Red
Revolutionary party which shouts for the
ideals of Russia, and Russia’s best-known
ideal has been the repudiation of the public
debt, internal and foreign. The boast of
this party, supported by some evidence,
that it controls Labor Conferences and
elects Labor officials, produces no good
effect as coming from a country where
Labor Ministries are so plentiful. Maori-
land has had plenty of advanced legislation,
but no Labor Ministry. Premier Lang, of
N.S.W., did no good when he fraternised
with the Red and woolly push, and replaced
his old colleagues in a high-handed fashion
with the Reddest members available. The
Queensland Labor Government did none
either when it repudiated the pastoral leases
and recklessly increased the rents, dating the
advances back in many cases so that
they became robberies in bulk. It showed
a disregard for the sanctity of contract
which might be liable to spread. Then the
raising of a Queensland loan at 7 per cent,
in New York was a suggestion that a special
charge for doubtful-character risk had come
into operation.
Maoriland had nine surpluses in the 10
years to 1926. It might have produced more
striking effects with them; still it had them.
The total was £26,740,874. This was partly
because the Dominion’s railways pay rather
better than those on this side, most of
which are suffering greatly under Arbitra-
tion Court experiments coupled with aggres-
sive trades-union control. And it is partly
because the interest rates on the public
debt are on a moderate scale compared with
those chargeable against Australia. The
uncouth and disorderly pranks and the
strange noises which are permitted to the
Bolsheviks, strike-mongers, Red-flaggers,
debt-repudiationists and preachers of revo-
lution in this land of the Altogether-Too-
Free apparently cost it about £6,800.000 per
annum on the interest account alone, it
being hard to find any other explanation
of the low esteem in which financiers hold
the Commonwealth as compared with its
small neighbor. The price is a high one
to pay for the reputation of keeping a dis-
orderly house.
Passionate declamations are made that
the extra interest rate is a device of “the
capitalist,” and arises out of his class-
hatred towards democratic legislation; but
that is unconvincing piffle. Fifty-four years
ago, when money was cheap, “the capitalist’
charged the Unspeakable Turk over nine
per cent, for a loan. That wasn’t because
of Abdul’s Labor legislation, for he had
none. It was because he was considered
several per cent, less reliable than Aus-
tralia is to-day.
THE MENACE OF PLAGUE.
Australia seems not yet to have realised
that she will have to do more in the future
than she has done in the past if she is to
keep free from plague. The risks of epi-
demics are multiplying at an enormous
rate. Plague, bubonic and pneumonic, is
endemic on the borders of north-west Man-
churia. The origin is generally attributed
to the tarabagan, the little Siberian rodent
whose fur many an Australian woman has
worn with vast pride.
Skilled trappers leave diseased animals
alone; unskilled or unscrupulous trappers
don’t. The skins are brought down, some-
times by men already infected with the
disease, to the great fur marts; and there
the epidemics start. In the old days the
mandarins had a rough-and-ready method
of prevention. They drew a cordon round
an affected town and shot anybody who
tried to get out of it. In those days there
were few roads and no railways. The coolie
barrow and the Peking cart covered their
20 miles a day. To-day Manchuria hums
with motor traffic running swiftly over the
military roads which the civil war has pre-
sented to commerce. Fresh railway routes
radiate from the centres of population into
the plague belt, and more are projected.
Moreover, the aeroplane has come, and the
Central Government recently signed a con-
tract with a German firm to quarter the
Republic with airlines.
The North Manchuria Plague Prevention
Service, headed by Dr. Wu Lien-teh,
struggles to keep a stranglehold on the dis-
ease, but owing to the above causes its
difficulties—not to mention a Government
which recently proposed to abolish it in
order to pay for a campaign—are steadily
on the increase. If plague slips through
into China it will get down to the seaboard
and there it will make hell, for, contrary
to popular belief, Western civilisation has
not brought better conditions to the treaty
ports, but has caused a concentration of
Oriental squalor, misery, degradation and
disease which could hardly be excelled even
in the stuffiest walled town.
Last year a village of 700 people near
the border was smitten. Three hundred
of the population died within five days;
300 fled; the other 100 remained either
because they could not escape or to bury
the dead. It is possible that, other things
being equal, an Australian community
might suffer more than an Asiatic one, inas-
much as centuries of exposure to infection
may have left in Asia a larger proportion
of those who are naturally immune.
Cleanliness is the best prophylactic. The
clean city is the only city that can stand
up against a wave of the disease. But, as
Asiatic experience is showing, it must be
more than surface cleanliness. It is the
hidden filth—the squalor that is thrust back
into alleys—that does the killing.
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Failure of the A.W.U.
t .. A , i- -it- i , tt ■ ,
Lauding the Australian Workers’ Union has
become a habit with newspapers which de-
light in playing off one Labor faction
against another. The bosses of the big
organisation, particularly the Sydney bosses.
are alleged to be brimful of political wis-
dom, public spirit, and all that sort of thing.
They had a chance to live up to this repu-
tation in their annual convention at Coolan-
gatta (Q.), and they failed badly. Resolu-
tions breathing hatred of wage-payers,
Bhuce-Pages and the other Labor crowd
were passed in plenty, but not a trace of
the great qualities attributed to the leaders
was visible.
The discussion of propositions hostile to
the Peace-in-Industry Conference and such
like occupied most of the delegates’ time,
but now and then they trifled into the ques-
tion of how the unemployed could be
“absorbed.” The president, who comes from
a 48-hour-week State, said reduction of
hours would do the trick. The “remedy”
has been tried for years in Queensland and
N. S. Wales with results which are tragi-
cally futile, as witness the lavish expendi-
ture on unemployed relief in both States.
No doubt, if you have five tons of potatoes
to dig you can employ either one man for
10 hours or 10 men for one hour. By redu-
cing the hours of labor you can increase
the number of men employed. The great
trouble is that you don’t increase the crop
of potatoes and therefore the amount of
money divisible.
Ihe truth, of course, as they see it, is
that so many people have a pick at the
spuds that the job could employ twice
as many men, as a rule, if there were no
parasites. There is a tremendous lot of
truth in it, too. The real producer ought
to be getting about twice as much as he
does get. The mistake the A.W.U. makes
is in assuming that the bulk of the parasites
belong to “the employing class.” They
don’t. They belong to the working class—
men who take pay, for instance, for doing
a railway job and don’t do it, thereby rob-
bing the farmer and everybody else who
thereafter has to use that road.
Years ago the A.W.U. raked in a great
deal of money to run a daily paper in Syd-
ney-—and then hesitated. The Coolangatta
convention resolved to launch the long-
delayed venture, although Sydney has
already six daily papers. It is thought that
£300,000-odd will be available when the
organisation’s handsome Sydney property
has been sold. With that amount of money
the A.W.U. could take up, equip and stock
huge tracts of sheep land in Queensland and
Westralia and show the pastoralists
how to do things. It could get all the
labor from its own ranks and help to
“absorb the unemployed.” Why not put
its policies to the test instead of merely
spending a few tens of thousands more in
talking about them?
♦
Trams or Motor-’buses?
“T.F.M.”: The assertion of “M.T.8.” (B.
23/1/’29) that it doesn’t even begin to be
true that motor-’buses arc pushing trams
off the face of the earth is on a par with
the lachrymose appeals which Melbourne
straphangers are accustomed to hear from
the Tramway Board. His ipse dixit as to
what is being done in certain English cities
has no force against the authority of an
official publication like the English “Muni-
cipal Year Book” which (1928 issue) tells
us:—
“The growing tendency of municipal bodies
to use motor-’bus services of their own is
another sign of the times. Some of the large
corporations have been doing this for some
time, either as a separate enterprise or to
augment the tram services. To mention only
a few, Birmingham, Wolverhampton, Leeds,
York, Huddersfield are users of six-wheeled
’buses of the double-decked type, and what
the big corporations are doing to-day the
little corporations will be doing to-morrow.”
Most of the double-deckers referred to
can seat 72 passengers. A couple of years
back six-wheeled ’buses with a roofed upper
deck were hardly thought of, and objections
were raised even to the four-wheelers fitted
with big pneumatic tyres, on the ground that,
a burst might upset the ’bus. That objec-
tion has been met by adding two extra
wheels and an extra axle, and the result
is that, combined with a lower centre of
gravity, there is a much greater margin of
safety, while the road wear has been re-
duced to a minimum. Birmingham has now
a fleet of 200 ’buses of that type covering
70 miles of route entirely within the city,
and at a minimum fare of a halfpenny and
an average fare of rather less than a
penny per passenger, a net profit equivalent
to £460 per ’bus was earned for the year
1926-27, the latest figures available.
The corporation of Sheffield has, So far,
130 vehicles of similar type in use; Man-
chester has 59, Newcastle-on-Tyne 60, Edin-
burgh 100, and in these as in other British
cities the number is rapidly increasing.
It is now recognised that, in order to
cope with the problem of traffic congestion,
it is necessary to obtain a type of vehicle
that is most likely to reduce to
a minimum. The tramcar is shut out from
London’s city thoroughfares because it
accentuates traffic congestion, just as it
does in the streets of Melbourne and Syd-
ney. Obstruction is, to a large extent, a
question of flexibility, and a motor-’bus is
flexible in every respect.
Then there is the question of speed,
a most important factor in the prevention
of traffic congestion. In any real attempt
to solve this problem consideration must
be given to the space a vehicle occupies
in a crowded street and the time it occupies
that space.
O
Things the Panama Canal May Do.
If the question were put pointblank, most
Melburnians would probably say that Vic-
toria was discovered when Batman landed
on the banks of the Yarra in 1835. As a
matter of fact, it was more luck than good
management that placed the capital on the
shores of Port Phillip at all.
When the eyes of Surgeon George Bass
fell on Westernport on Jan. 4, 1798, he was
impressed with a beautiful stretch of water
and fine surroundings which have remained
practically unchanged ever since. Three
years later Lieutenant James Grant, the
first cultivator of Victorian soil, reported
that the bay was capable of containing
several hundred sail in perfect security. In
1802 Governor King reported that the only
eligible position for settlement south of
Sydney was at either Port Dalrymple or
Westernport. Two years later, however,
Lieuts. Robbin and Oxley condemned West-
ernport and plumped for Port Phillip. And
they happened to plump at the right
moment.


SANITATION IN BLUNDERLAND.
“There were 84 more convictions in Sydney this week for breaches of the by-laws relating to cleanliness, mostly for dropping tram tickets.”
INTRUDER: “Hi! I caught this cove running a rat-farm.”
JUSTICE: “Get out! Can’t you see I am occupied with this dangerous woman who has dropped a tram ticket.”
Nevertheless Westernport may yet come
into its own. The Panama Canal, with its
depth of 41ft., is letting deeper vessels slip
through into the Pacific than can come the
Suez way, and, as a recent Commission re-
marked, ‘‘there are very few ports in the
world possessed of natural depths capable
of adequately taking a vessel drawing 40
feet, but Westernport is one.” The
port of Melbourne can keep pace with the
increasing draught of steamers only by con-
tinual dredging, but its prospective rival
has a front door 3i miles wide and 90 feet
in depth!
♦
The Fagin Press.
“Lex”: The Bulletin’s criticisms of “The
Fagin Press” (6/2/’29) are unanswerable
so far as they go. Of course useful hints
in the art of committing certain crimes
safely may be got from the papers that
specialise in sensations. (Incidentally,
criminals are helped in this direction by the
Fagin Press merely because it is the only
kind of literature that they favor. They
would find much more valuable information
in scientific publications.) But, on balance,
the journals that feature crime do malefac-
tors more harm than good. The biggest
chink in the armor of every true criminal
is vanity. If forgers, embezzlers, burglars,
murderers and the like who have committed
what the newspapers acclaim as “perfect
crimes” could control their over-mastering
impulse to brag about their cleverness, the
police would have a very hard row to hoe.
Take- the English case to which The
Bulletin refers—the Gutteridge murder.
I saw part of the trial of the murderers,
Brown and Kennedy, at the Old Bailey last
year, and their childish conceit was the
most interesting feature of it. They did
not owe their conviction primarily to the
scientists who proved by the rifling of
Brown’s old service revolver that it had
fired the fatal shot. The revolver would
never have been found if Brown had not
met an old lag of his acquaintance, and
said in the exuberance of his pride: “The
country coppers are not stopping car-stealers
at night much since Kennedy and I got
Gutteridge.” His confidant betrayed him
for the reward —news of which had been
given to the world by the Fagin Press.
The rest was easy for the Crown, which,
until then, had been completely baffled.
There is a story illustrating the criminal’s
most dangerous failing which bears all the
marks of truth. The old offender was say-
ing good-bye to his wife before starting 10
years’ penal servitude. “Is there anything
more I can do for you, Bill?” she sobbed.
“Yes, my gal. Keep the cuttings of the
trial so as I can enjoy ’em when I come
out.”
The police rely for about 75 per cent,
of their preliminary information on fizgigs,
and the fizgigs rely almost entirely on the
braggadocio of suspects whose heads have
been turned by the realisation that the deeds
which they have the best of reason for
knowing all about are mysteries to the
geniuses who run the newspapers. Wipe out
the Fagin Press and you make it at least
twice as easy for the criminal to repress his
inclination to skite—in other words, you
make crime-detection twice as hard.
4
Is the Australian so Helpless?
A curious debate on financial topics has
raged in a gentlemanly way between ex-
Minister Ashton, who was in the Carruth-
ers and Wade Cabinets of 1904 and 1907,
and Arthur Griffith, who was in the Mc>
Gowen and Holman Cabinets of 1910 and
1913. Ashton has been 21 years in the
N. S. Wales Leg. Council; Griffith has
now no definite political address. Why
these gentlemen should have dug up the
Past it is hard to say, but Ashton certainly
suspects Griffith of spending too much
loan money in his day, and Griffith de-
fends himself with an argument which The
Bulletin had thought to be extinct: —
It is a perfectly open question as to
whether it is better that a country should
get along with bullock-tracks in place of
concrete roads and railways, with waterholes
in place of reservoirs, and with mudbanks
in place of wharves, and thus avoid the
building up of a public debt. Had we from
the beginning adopted this policy New
South Wales to-day would have been a pas-
toral country with a population of probably
100,000 people, with Sydney a port approxi-
mately the size of Wollongong, and the
circulation of the S. M. Herald averaging
probably 10,000 per day, but we would be in
a sound financial position, which I admit
frankly we are not to-day.
It is a pity to find Arthur Griffith of
all men suggesting that the Poor Australian
Worm must have grubbed along without
roads, railways, wharves or reservoirs save
for its public debt—this despite its coal
and its gold and its land revenues and all
the rest of the natural resources. The
world was dotted with great works long
before public debts and especially external
public debts were invented.
As a matter which even politicians should
know, N. S. Wales had 130,856 people a
year or two before it floated its first loan,
which was raised in Sydney, and Victoria
had over 234,000 inhabitants before it
floated its first loan, which was done in
Melbourne—it had over 400,000 before its
first Griffith beguiled it into high finance
in London. The States were thus really
doing pretty well as regards population,
shipping, road-making and wharf-building,
and were also doing a little in railways be-
fore some evil-dispositioned ass broke the
news that the Australian was, and always
must be, a Poor Worm, unable to exist
save by the aid of borrowed capital.
Australia’s career since that day has been
that of an old type of Irish landlord much
depicted in fiction—the one who saw his
way to grow rich by heaping mortgages on
his estate till he was sold up, and the
property was bought by the absentee. In
actual fact, if it had never borrowed a bean
Australia would almost certainly have
had as good a show of public works as it
has now and without any external debt
other than the Great War forced upon it.
And having no other interest bills to pay
it would now be in the happy position of
being able to pay for at least 3o millions of
new works every year.
<s>
Why Country Votes Country Party.
About 20 years ago, during one of those
recurrent periods when city politicians find
the excess of unskilled labor embarrassing,
a large party of Westralian toilers, mostly
Fremantle wharf-laborers, were placed on
a belt of forest 120 miles or so north-east
of Perth, called Yorkrakine. They had
everything to learn about wheat-farming
under 12-inch-rainfall conditions, and in
1911-12 they had to cart water long dis-
tances throughout the summer; in 1914
their crops failed. Nevertheless, four-fifths
of them persevered and made excellent
settlers. For cosy homes and well-kept
farms Yorkrakine is one of the bright spots
of the wheat belt; and the visitor comes
away pleasantly impressed with the adapt-
ability of Australian working men and their
womenfolk.
In a sloppily unscientific way the Gov-
ernment did a lot for these settlers, but
in one important respect it has failed them.
It promised them a railway, and the rail-
way hasn’t arrived. Settlers in new dis-
tricts are assured that the Government
aims at bringing the railway within 124
miles of the remotest farm; some of the
Yorkrakine farmers have to cart their wheat
22 miles to the siding, and 17 miles is a
common thing. W. C. Angwin, sometime
Labor Minister and now Agent-General,
is reckoned the father of the settlement,
but the present Labor Government is as
indifferent to the prime need of the ex-
wharfies at Yorkrakine as the Nationalists
were. On reservoirs and sewerage works
and motor roads for the metropolis, how-
ever, the Labor Government is gaily spend-
ing millions. It scattered £129,000 of loan
money in reconstructing eight miles of the
quite-unimportant Canning-road, south of
the Swan; and the Yorkrakine settlers, who
have waited 20 years in vain for their
railway, will have to find some of the
interest.
And city editors wonder why country
people insist on having a Country party!
4
The Real Peril from the Air.
Last week an English chemist named Hals-
bury, who is said to. have been Assistant-
Inspector of High Explosives during the
war, “urged the people of London to get into
a panic now about gas. instead of waiting
until an attack was made”:—
“He envisaged attack after attack upon
Loudon at two-liour intervals, continuing for
possibly two or three days. As a chemist, he
was sure that gas had already been dis-
covered worse than anything used in the last
war.”
These warnings look much less marrow-
freezing when they are taken for what
they are—part of the routine work of fore-
ing air-consciousness on the British, who
have a peculiar horror of gas. J. B. S. Hal-
dane, Cambridge University’s famous
Reader in Bio-Chemistry and one of the
greatest living authorities on poison gas,
has denied flatly that London or any other
great city can be effectively gassed from
the air. He wrote recently:—
“The real danger to London lies in attack
with high explosives and incendiary bombs.
They can be dropped night, after night,
whereas, in order to be effective, gas bombs
must be dropped simultaneously and close
together so as to obtain a fatal concentra-
tion.”
How real this danger is may be judged
from a study of what other European Powers
are doing in the air. Russia, where the
brotherhood of man is preached, leads with
1500 military aircraft, and over 2000 ’planes
which are used at present for such civilian
purposes as spraying locusts with poison.
(The study of aviation is compulsory in
Russian schools, and every child is taught
the rudiments of aero-dynamics.) Italy pro-
poses to have 2800 military aircraft by the
middle of next year, and France has nearly
3000 modern aircraft and a highly-trained
personnel. At the end of the war Britain
had a flying personnel of 291,748, and no less
than 22,171 ’planes. At this time, in the
phrase of the U.S.A. Aviation Mission, the
U.K. was “well in the lead in practically
every phase of aerial development.” To-day
it is nowhere.
To quote Haldane once more:—
“The air defence of London is a military
problem only second in importance to the
defence of our shores and food supplies. Anti-
gas measures will not protect us from high
explosives.”
A similar warning applies to the cities and
towns of Australia. The very winds which
would disperse a gas like phosgene here
would help to burn out a town that was
attacked by ’planes carrying incendiary
bombs.
+
The Toll of Motor Accidents.
From a lawyer with a large practice:—
The 50 p.c. of acquittals at N.S.W. Quar-
ter Sessions last year (11. 30/l/’29) is
strong evidence of the need for reorganising
the police. How can they give proper atten-
tion to their real job when burdened with
duties unconnected with their primary func-
tions? The brawny “cop” going round
“booking” motorists for breaches of the
parking regulations is a travesty. The sepa-
ration of the traffic from the ordinary police,
as proposed by the Home Office in England,
would appear to be a step in the right direc-
tion. Commonsense suggests that traffic
police, including patrols, should be specially
selected and trained.
The Department seems to regard the work
of traffic police as being confined solely to
dangerous intersections in the. city and
suburbs. Elsewhere the “road hog” and other
irresponsibles do as they like. The traffic
receipts now amount to over a million and a
half, so the Government cannot plead lack
of funds. “Roads first and safety last” seems
to be the present policy—little wonder the
weekly motor-toll is constantly increasing!


gae-l/c-
RESERVE.
lAL
and Whisky
s wmowm*
RED, WHITE and BLUE
WHISKY
Gaelic Special Reserve
DEARER BUT BETTER
ORME, KEIGWIN & CO., LTD.
269-271 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN AGENTS: JAMES HENTY & CO., 499 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: B. SEPPELT & SONS, LTD., 444 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Gfs&Ue
Highland WKis^V
ss*^*:
POLITICAL
POINTS
It did not take Curtin, M.11.R. for Fre-
mantle, long to make an impression on the
Federal Labor Caucus. He was elected to
the party executive —a rare distinction for
a new member. Scullin was reappointed
leader, and Theodore, as anticipated, pushed
Blakeley out of the deputy-leadership. It is
too early for either to regard the man from
Westralia as a rival, but the day may come.
The fiscal question is probably the one
on which an end will be made, sooner or
later, of the Bruce-Page combination, which
celebrated its sixth birthday on Feb. 9.
Danger was threatened when Gregory moved
a Frcctrade resolution in the C.P. caucus.
Prowse supported him, and others were ready.
But it was represented, with some agitation,
that if the Wcstralian move succeeded the
Nats, would immediately end the alliance;
so the matter was dropped for the time
being. There are Nats, who arc insistent
that the bluff of the C.P. Freetraders should
be called, and called it may be on the Tariff
Board Bill.
Although the Commonwealth-States finan-
cial agreement was accepted by the greatest
p o pula r majorities
ever recorded at an
Australian referen-
dum, Federal Labor
plans to oppose the
validating legislation
in the shoddy cause of
State Frights, and
affects to believe that
some of the National-
ists who voted against
the original measure
will join it. Maxwell,
M.11.R. for Fawkner
(Yic.), is specially
mentioned. Maxwell’s
constituency voted
nearly 12 to 1 for the
agreement. To flout
a verdict so over-
whelming would re-
duce him to the level
of the crowd that
smashed the Queens-
land Leg. Council in flat
contempt of a referen-
dum. Surely he is not
that sort of member.
Maxwell, M.H.R.
The restoration of the temporal power of
the Pope will add a new State to Europe
and a new member to the League of Nations.
The area of the new State is uncertain, but
it is hoped that it won’t be so utterly ridi-
culous as that of Monaco, which is four
square miles, the population being 5750 per
mile. San Marino boasts 3S square miles
and two .Captains-Regent, a Grand Council
and a Council of Twelve, but it is possibly
a trifle overloaded with institutions.
The day before the House of Reps, opened
Littleton Groom was told that his fellow-
Queenslander Bayley was to get the Nat.-
Cocky nomination for the Speakership. In
his mild way he said. he had heard that if
he submitted his name to Parliament he
would receive solid Labor support and the
votes of six other members; and it was
devastatingly true. .So Bayley discovered
that he did not want to be a candidate, and
Groom is again wearing the wig, much to
the satisfaction of Labor. If things get out
of hand Groom will never be able to control
the roaring lions of the Opposition, which
is just what the Opposition wants.
Arthur Cocks, who was George Fuller’s
Treasurer, was asked to join the swarm of
applicants for the Nationalist nomination in
Parramatta, the late Albert Bruntnell’s elec-
torate. He thought it over for a day or
two and then wrote to
the S. M. Herald say-
ing that “circum-
stances did not favor
liis adopting the course
suggested.” This may
mean that he pre-
ferred the chances of
the younger Brig.-Gen.
Lloyd, or that he
objected to being in-
spected by “the execu-
tive” ns if he were a
bundle of tweed in a
tailor’s shop, or that
he has his eye on an-
other seat—certainly
he has not said that
he won’t come back in
any event. Bruntnell’s
death has removed the
only possible alterna-
tive to Bavin among
the Nationalists now
in the Assembly. And
in vie w of the
Premier’s severe ill-
ness and the signs of
overstrain he has shown
since, many supporters
Arthur Cocks.
of the party would feel more comfortable
if the level-headed Cocks were available,
even though he is getting on for 67.
Vic. Nationalists are complaining that
there is something radically wrong with the
organising work of the Nat. Fed., of which
lion. Minister Cuthbertson is boss. But for
special exertions in the last week of the
campaign the Castlemaine-Kyneton Assembly
seat would have been lost, although Lawson
had a majority of nearly 1900 in April.
1927. West, who regained South Gippsland
Avhen Bodman died, owed more to personal
goodwill than to the Nat. Fed.: and Mac-
farlan, who stepped into Snowball’s place
at Brighton, had nothing to thank the
machine for. Yet Liberalism used to know
how to organise.
South Aus. is beginning to reap the bene-
fit of its afforestation policy. Conservator
Julius says that the demand for softwoods,
of which Australia imports as much as
four millions’ worth in a year, is on the
edge of being met locally. His department is
planting 5000 acres of pines each year, and
forests over 15 years old are being" thinned,
which is good for them, and supplies flooring-
hoards, cases and such things. Julius esti-
mates the immediate annual output at 18
million super, feet. By 1936 75,000 acres
will be under pines.
Canada’s cow-farming interest is doing
most of the growling because there lias been
a mild increase in imports from Australia.
There are Canadians who are taking a
friendlier view. The secretary to the Board
of Trade has advised that body that there
is no sense in bringing huge quantities of
stimulants from France, a relatively poor
customer, when “wines and brandy just as
good are produced in Australia.” In 1920-
27 Canada bought 24 million dollars’ worth
of goods from France and sent that country
15J million dollars’ worth ; its imports from
Australia were valued at 61 million dollars
and its exports to Australia at 19 million
dollars.
The Soviet Government has arrested hun-
dreds of Trotsky’s alleged followers on sus-
picion of being in communication with
foreign Powers or persons, and it is trying
to deport Trotsky himself, though he is a
Russ by birth. There is better reason for
shifting from Australia some hundreds of
people who are not Australians by birth, and
whose communications with foreign parties
are well known. Garden, of “black, brown
and brindle” notoriety, who admires Soviet
precedents, should offer an opinion about this
one.
The Federal session at Canberra opened
poorly. When the Governor-General's
address had duly arrived Opposition-leader
Scullin said with commendable brevity that
he declined to waste time discussing such a
mass of drivel, and sat down in four minutes,
He might have said the same thing a great
deal worse in four hours. No one on liis side
rose to expand the remark. The Government
should have ended the debate there, thus
creating a precedent which might lead to
the abolition of the time-wasting formality,
and introduced a sheaf of bills. But not
being provided with bills, it tried to
disguise the breakdown by putting up its
own members to stonewall. In the end
Bruce got on his feet, and replied to the
speech which Scullin hadn't made.
Something which might have been expected,
but wasn’t, has struck the N.S.W. Govern-
ment just when it wanted a moment s rest.
Ex-Premier Lang’s child endowment is pay-
able where the parents have insufficient
means of support, and applications from the
northern coalfields are pouring in. If the
Buvin-Bruee offer to the miners had been
accepted there would have been much more
employment, and enough wages to keep most
families off the endowment; but it was em-
phatically rejected, and the population is
qualifying for Government aid at a great
pace. So child (Endowment begins to look
like plain unemployment insurance or a
subsidiary strike fund.
The Prince of Wales lias been doing a
bleak pilgrimage through the North of Eng-
land coal country, where the habit of men-
tioning “starvation” as the cause of death is
more frequent than pleasant. lie lias diffused
a great (leal of sympathy, and that has led
to an increase of charitable subscriptions,
but the problem remains. There were
1.225,929 miners employed in Great Britain
before the three months’ strike of 1921. That
figure was never regained; hut there were
1.115,640 at work before the seven months’
strike of 1926. At latest advices there were
969,500, and the lost trade is being recovered
very slowly.
Sydney Civic Commissioners slumped in
public regard the other day when some new
assessments were issued, and the explana-
tion they published when the thing was with-
drawn didn’t set them up on a pedestal
again. The original idea was that one-third
of the city should be reassessed each year,
and the “explanation” suggested that the
city had been cut into three sections, one
of which had been dealt with. As a matter
of fact, properties dotted all over the city
were re-assessed; in some instances part of
a single property was re-assessed, the valua-
tion being increased as much as 80 p.c., while
another part was left alone. A finer scheme
for letting in the blackmailer and for pro-
moting corruption was never hatched. A
sectional re-assessment that can be so mis-
construed had better be abandoned.
General-secretary Grayndler met with
some rebuffs at the A.W.U. convention and
figured in a stormy scene with Riordan, the
union’s Queensland
secretary, but fie scored
when the delegates
sanctioned the “early
establishment” of the
long-projected A.W.U.
daily in Sydney and
agreed to sell Mac-
donell House, as he
recommended. Graynd-
ler and his fellow-
directors of Labor
Papers, Ltd., are
authorised to “nego-
tiate for the purchase
of any going concern,”
meaning the Labor
Daily, and that will
involve negotiations
for the settlement of
the quarrel between
the A.W.U. and the
N. S. Wales Labor
executive; so the thing
has some political sig-
nificance. But in
whatever form the
World makes its
appearance, many of
the A.W.U. men who
Grayndler, of the
A.W.U.
subscribed the funds for it in the first
place will never see it. They became Diggers,
and are dead.
Australians are familiar with Communist
threats to darken the streets of Melbourne
and Sydney unless “the demands of the
strikers are conceded,” and the thing has
actually happened in Paris. There it is
called “an act of revenge for the Govern-
ment’s decision not to release the Communist
leader Marty from prison, in spite of liis
election to the Chamber of Deputies.” Marty
is doing four years for trying to create dis-
affection in the navy. Ilis colleague Duclos
is doing 30 years for efforts to Sovietise the
army. Cachin, editor of L’llumanite, has
only just come out, and will certainly be in
again soon.
A Dublin paper asserts that when the
North of Ireland Parliament was about to
meet for the first time in June, 1921. the
speech prepared for King George to read
from the little throne at Belfast amounted
to a declaration of war against the Free
State. The- King jibbed, and employed
General Smuts to draft a very different
kind of document. The subsequent row in
♦he British Cabinet was so intense that the
General, whose complicity wasn’t suspected,
was invited to attend a meeting and pour oil
on the tempestuous Lloyd George and Co.
which he did, being the sort of man who
could almost bring an Afghan monarch to
a better frame of mind. Smuts, being inter-
viewed about the Dublin story, replied that
there was a story which he couldn’t relare.
the matter being confidential, and it was
more interesting than the one given to the
public. At that rate it must have been a
thrilling narrative.
The “charges” on which Malcolm Shep-
herd, secretary of the Defence Department,
was suspended at
the end of Decem-
ber were heard
last week by a
board headed by
11. I*. Brown, the
man behind the
P.M.G. They boiled
down to a string of
assertions by one
Captain Larkin,
who said he had
been driven to con-
clude that it was
necessary to bribe
Colonel Brins-
mead, Controller of
Civil Aviation, be-
fore any business
could be done in
that line, and that
Shepherd, bei n g
told this, had
advised him to
bribe, and offered
to work the oracle.
There was no cor-
roborative evidence,
documentary o r
Colonel Brinsmead.
oral, against either Shepherd or Brinsmead,
and their denials were emphatic. Larkin
admitted that he was a disappointed ten-
derer. The inquiry dragged on for three
days, but an hour or should have been suffi-
cient.
Despite all the talk of “Bondy” Hoare
about how he was going to produce unlimited
supplies of greatly-cheapened Newcastle coal
out of a hat, the tenders sent in to the S.
Aus. Government show only an infinitesimal
reduction. Further appeals to the miners
brought the reply that they wouldn’t tolerate
any reduction of wages, and that “the Gov-
ernment should nationalise the industry as
a temporary expedient.” But the Govern-
ment would have to nationalise the industry
all over Australia, unless Newcastle expects
the good things to itself. It would cost a
disastrous pile to buy the mines, for the
country couldn’t steal them without wreck-
ing its credit, the credit of thieves being
low, and unless it proceeded to lose lots more
money as it does on the nationalised rail-
ways (Australian railways had to be sub-
sidised with £5,776,000 in 1927), coal would
be no cheaper. Then the prospect of the
nationalised miners demanding more pay—
and probably getting it if their votes were
important—is too terrifying. No Government
is likely to buy accommodation for its head
in the lion’s mouth at indefinite expense,
especially now.
The people who fix the unimproved capital
value of Sydney for rating purposes have
more than doubled the nominal price of the
bare soil in nine years, raising it from 33
millions in 1920 to 70 millions in 1929. Th-
area remained the same old five sq. miles or
so, and the population diminished a little
through people removing to the suburbs.
It doesn’t improve the business of Smith,
the big draper, to be told that the alleged
value of the land on which his emporium
stands has risen violently, and likewise the
rates and the Federal land-tax (designed
to break up Smith’s corner block into small
farming allotments). It is implied that
Smith would get more for the land if he. sold
it, but he can’t sell and get out of business
once every three years.
A favorite and wholly stupid “argument”
is that Protection in England is impossible
without a reversion to the old Corn Daws,
with their attendant horrors. The Corn Laws
were really Wheat Laws; any horrors which
they created are doubtful; and in any case
Britain has adopted a good deal of Pro-
tection, with possibilities of much more, with-
out the Wheat Laws reappearing. For 125
years these laws related mainly to the pay-
ment of a bounty of as much as per
bushel on surplus British-grown wheat sent
abroad when the local price was considered
ruinously low. It isn’t likely to be revived,
because Britain can’t produce enough food
for itself: nevertheless, the 90-year-old bogey
is still a noisy argument even with Aus-
tralian Freetraders, few of whom realise that
the Commonwealth itself charges a duty on
wheat.
Vocational guidance is to be the first sub-
ject of educational research when the Aus-
tralian trust being formed to handle ffiOflO
a year from the Carnegie Corporation gets
into its stride. The offer of the £6OOO a year
for 10 years, with administrative exes., was
made through Frank Tate, former Vic. Direc-
tro of Education, who was asked to get into
touch with Profs. Lovell and Mackie, of
Sydney Uni., to start the trust going.
POLYSYLLABIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Scullin, who spoke for barely four minutes,
dismissed the Governor-General’s speech as platitudi-
nous veroiage.”
He might have stripped tli’ oration bare,
Torn it to pieces, hard and good,
And if he’d had an hour to spare
’Tis like enough that Scullin would
But minutes four no time provide
Warfare on such a scale to wage,
And so he pished the speech aside
As platitud’nous verbiage.
He might have styled it banal tosh,
Or (say) circumlocution base,
Or just unmitigated bosh
Or ultra-stuffy commonplace;
Some more sonorous words to fling
He yearned, it seems, at Bruce and Page,
Wherefore he stigmatised the thing
As platitud’nous verbiage.
He might have called it wordy punk,
Or taffy garrulous and trite,
Or purely pleonastic bunk,
Or even tripey blatherskite.
Some less plebeian term he sought
Wherewith his venom to assuage,
And with some gleam of memory caught
At platitud’nous verbiage.
lie might have named it yap absurd
Or rubbish unredeemed and stark;
And were the speech like some I’ve heard
’Twould not have been far off the mark.
With hardly civil leer he gibed,
Yet no one winced, I will engage,
To hear the document described
As platitud’nous verbiage.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Tee' Essbie”: .Almost every paper that
dealt with the early career of the late Albert
Bruntnell mentioned that he was a “Briga-
dier-General” in the Salv’army. As a matter
of fact, there is no such rank as Brig.-
Gen. in the Salv’army. Its Brigadier ranks
below Colonel and is five stages removed
from General, the order of upward progres-
sion being Brigadier, Lieut.-Colonel, Colonel.
Lieut.-Commissioner, Commissioner and
General.
THE HUNTRESS.
BILL: "Cut in, Jim—she told a chap I know that she liked men who are game!"
JIM: “Not me! To her sort all men are game.”
“S.T.S.”: How many women are there in
Australia with six Christian names? I know
one whose romantic parents labelled her
with such a bunch, carefully selected, so that
she had to sign herself V. I. O. L. E. T.
(say) Brown. And how many men are there
with four Christian names? And What were
the odds against her husband being one of
them‘d Yet it was so, and she became in-
stead’Mrs. G. J. T. D. (say) Jones.
s«c sj: #
“Taltingan”: What amazing hours some
of these splendid bush kids live through!
A Broken Hill taxi-driver was called up the
other day to take a station manager and
his wife up to Yandama; it’s 200-odd miles,
but a thing like that often comes the way
of the Broken Hill taxi-man. At about nine
on a Sunday morning, when they were IS
miles out from Milparinka, they spotted a
horse standing a bit off the track, and later
saw a boy sitting beside the horse. The boy
waved, but they thought it was just the usual
hearty bush greeting, and drove on. However,
something made the driver decide to turn;
and when they got to the kid they found that
the horse had fallen and splintered the rider’s
leg above the ankle. The poor kid tried, but
couldn’t manage to struggle aboard again, so
he scraped up a heap of sand to rest his
smashed leg upon, and clung to the bridle.
He reckoned for one thing a horse was com-
pany, and for another that travellers might
see the neddy when they might miss a nipper.
There he sat for 17 hours—from four in
the afternoon till nine in the morning. And,
as he knew, it would be almost a miracle if
he was picked up at all. A mere .50 miles
or so took them to the hospital, and out
back that's like going to the corner to post
a letter. All the same, there wasn't much
life left in the poor kid —15 years old he
is—when they lifted him out at Tibooburra.
* * * *
“T.K.H.”: Victoria has had no regular
hangman for years. The occasion, however,
always finds the man. When the services
of a Ketch are required nowadays in
IVntridge, applications are invited from
prisoners at lock-un lime. None is ever
forthcoming—in public. Rut when the warder.;
lock each man in his cell, several whispered
offers are made, for “the job” is worth £•»
and a big reduction of sentence—general.y
six months. Two are chosen, a principal and
an assistant. A week before the execution
they begin daily rehearsals with bags of sand
and other “props.” But the curious thing
is that neither the so-called hangman nor
his assistant does the actual hanging. They
pinion the condemned and adjust tin 1 white
cap, but the fatal bolt is pulled by a senior
warder. Apparently it, is only the actual
handling of the condemned on the scaffold
that warders shy at.
* * * *
“Uramao”: A Maoriland competitor for
last year’s Bulletin novel competition attri-
butes his non-success to police _ interference,
which prevented him from getting the local
color he was after. When the terms of the
competition were announced lie donned his
oldest clothes and fared forth to a small
mining township, where lie promised himself
the same sort of copy that Bret Harte ob-
tained from his Roaring Camps and Poker
Flats. Our author wandered round the
place for a week and was getting a fine
background for his work, when he noticed
that lie had incurred the suspicious scrutiny
of the local constable, owing to his osten-
sible lack of occupation. He was wondering
how he could disarm this hostility, when
a rough-looking diamond approached him
and said: “Look ’ere, mate; the John ’Op
has got his eye on you. His garden wants
weeding, and when that happens he always
pinches a vagrant and gets him a month.
And w’en the cop says a man’s a vagi’ant
in this ’ere place the J.P. al’us conwicts.
I’ve been up against it, so take my advice,
Dig. and beat it.” The embryo author “beat
it” by the first train. And another literary
masterpiece was spoiled in the making.
* * * *
“H.II.”: As an outsize sample of mate-
ship i offer the following. The girl tripped
down the steps of the Sydney Central Police
Court with a downcast face, counting the
money she held in her hand; then, looking
up, she smirked at a couple of men standing
close to me. Her method of appeal, which
I couldn’t avoid hearing, was very direct;
her mate was inside held for the payment
of a fine and costs, and having less than ten
bob towards it, she. was out to collect the
rest as soon as possible. One of the men
went away with her: —presumably to help
her collect it. Later I mentioned the inci-
dent to a police friend, expressing my sur-
prise that traffic of this sort could be con-
ducted on the very steps of the police court.
From my description he identified the girl
as May. '“And it wasn’t all bluff.” he added.
“Her cobber, Katie, was fined this morning.
Poor kids! One of them is up at least once
a month, but the other always manages to
pay the fine. Whatever else they are, they’re
mates!”
* * * *
“Murkah”: Radio has made astonishing
strides since 1914, when a grapnel yms let
down into the ocean depths and Germany
was bereft of her cable service, which was
spliced and converted to Allied use. Ger-
many fell back on her great station at Nauen.
whence messages were despatched from a
900 ft. high aerial, and with a 600-k.w.
lightning flash behind every dot. The speed
was about 30 w.p.m., high-speed automatic
transmission over any considerable range then
bein" impracticable. In Australia signals
from Nauen were readable about three
mornings in five, when conditions were good,
between 1 a.m. and 5 a.m. Recently at
Summer Hill (Sydney) I asked a friend to
tune in some overseas station. A second
afterwards a penetrating hiss filled the room;
PRE-DOMESTIC ECONOMY.
“what arc you going about with another boy for if you’re still wearing Teddie’s ring?"
“Have a heart! Teddie fell behind in the instalments on it, and I'm givin' him a
chance to pull up.”
it was the British-Australian Beam service
speeding: along at 200 w.p.m., which clip
can be kept up as long as you like. Ihus
the beam stations, using a mere 2o k.w. and
a wavelength of 26 metres (Nauen worked
on 15,000 metres), are far superior to the
giant German thunderhouse of 15 years ago.
* * * *
“Jack Point” : How much money in two-
bob pieces can be packed into a quart billy?
An officer in the Queensland Public Cura-
tor’s department recently found, to his
amazement, that the answer is ±l4B. Ihe
deposit was part of the hoard of an old
resident of Coorparoo, a suburb of Brisbane.
The miser lived in a mean old humpy in
reputedly abject poverty, and was finally torn
away from his money to become a patient m
the mental ward of Brisbane hospital, xhe
total of the silver he left behind him was
over £l5OO, mostly rolled up in the approved
hank-teller style and stowed in tins, billies,
etc. In addition there were over a thousand
sovereigns. Reams of manuscript in dupli-
cate, giving the ancient’s views on various
biblical subjects, were also unearthed, but
it is considered doubtful whether his wealt.i
was the result of literary efforts marketed.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Gastronomic memories are
stirred by the sale of that dingy old building
in Pitt-streef, Sydney, which used to house
the original “Comino’s.” The place adver-
tised its activities by crates of fowls out-
side, often waiting for the next day’s cookery-
pot ; live lobsters were also in evidence; and
strung up in small sackcloth bags at the
doorway wore oysters—a shilling a bag each,
containing two or three dozen. Within,
the proprietor gave his patrons soup,
what looked like half a boiled fowl
with real oysters in the sauce (unless
the diner preferred a whacking steak), and
sweets, all for a bob. The bread stood
in towers on the table; the butter stood
upon it in pound pats; and the elite of the
day were not ashamed to negotiate their
shilling’s-worth at Comino’s. The victualler
made a fortune, and the block of land on
which the old-time eating-house stood has
just realised £42.500. Had Comino paid
rent on that land value his cheap meals
would have been impossible; but £3 per ween
was considered a good rent for commodious
city premises in those days.
* * * *
“D.” : About a very vexed question:—
A recent official statement that three out of
every four members of the A.I.F. were Australian-
born was all to the good. But there should be
more of these authoritative pronouncements. Noses
are still being punched in countless bars all over
the Empire because of allegations made more in
ignorance than malice.
Towards the end of the war an A.I.F. officer
of high rank assured me “that 50 p.e. of the Diggers
were British-born, and that Vo p.c. of those at the
landing were not Australians.” (He was an English-
man himself.) Another authority claimed that, the
Irish in Australia (meaning those of Irish origin)
had made a poor response, and that the Jews who
had enlisted were above their quota. An American
was convinced that the A.E.F. had “lost as many
killed or died of wounds as the whole Australian
army.” And so on. My researches into the matter
gave these results, inter alia: In Australia every
denomination (which is equivalent, roughly, to
saying “every racial stock”) volunteered up to its
onota except the Jews, who were below- their quota.
The Jews had most officers in proportion to numbers
and the R.C.’s fewest. On the other hand
the R.C.’s had more than their shave of casualties
and field decorations. The Anglicans (16 per cent,
of the A.1.F.) were normal from whatever angle
they were investigated. Whether it was casualties
or commissions, dismissals from the service or
decorations, they emerged with their due allowance.
I remember working out that the number of
deaths in the A.I.F. and in the A.E.F. was the
same in round figures as the number of R.C. en-
listments in Australia — i.e,, 60,000. But a recent
American authority gives the tally of killed in the
A.E.F. as only 50,300. And he gives the total
dcath.i O.A.S. of Belgium (population 1J millions
more than Australia) as only 13,500!
* * * *
“P.M.”: In a Victorian court some
years ago a witness had given evidence in
iin assault case, and was followed by a con-
stable who denied most of his evidence. “\> by
don't you speak the truth?” interrupted the
first witness. “You are fined a pound tor
insulting behavior. Don’t interrupt again,
said the late Notley Moore, P.M. “But he s
telling damn lies,” reiterated the offender.
‘•That costs you another pound,” said Moore,
“and there will be a further fine every time
you defy me.” There was silence for a few
seconds. Then, “Well, I’ll have a couple
more,” he said, as he pulled a bundle of notes
out of his pocket.
* * M* *
“Couta”: How’s this for grit? The other
day a soldier settler at Nangana (Vic.)
was thrown from his horse, and broke lus
leg. Though suffering severely he managed
to crawl to his hut, where he made a bed
of cliaff-bags to lie on. Then he fired his
shotgun to attract attention. His nearest
neighbor come over to see what the trouble
was and went to Belgrave for a doctor. Y\ lien
the medico arrived the patient had a hot cup
of tea ready for him!
* * * *
“R. Volt” : With the Beam reaching Lon-
don practically instantaneously, a recent feat
of the cable service does not sound much, but
actually was an extraordinary performance
which shows that the merger hasn’t resulted
in the older organisation resting on its oars.
A signal was sent from Singapore to London.
It had to pass through 11 stations, which
meant emerging from one cable and enter-
ing another nine times. The stations were
coupled together automatically, and after the
key was depressed in Singapore a bare 1.2
seconds elapsed before the instrument began
to move in London. Under the old system
the time would have been anything from 40
minutes to an hour.
* * * *
“Tahune”: A Speck diver, who sometimes
takes a holiday to go probing into old wrecks,
has recovered some spoil from the remains
of a barque which caught fire, and blew up
after anchoring in Tas. waters in IST»S. She
was laden with general cargo from London.
Among- the items retrieved was a jar of olive
oil in perfect condition, and some bottles
of pickled onions intact after 73 years’ sub-
mersion. A . big consignment of copper
coinage alleged to be on board is the sub-
marine worker’s main, objective.
*** - *
“P.X.”: You never know what your toe
will kick up in the older parts of Sydney.
Last week workmen began to dig out the
foundations for another new printing press
in The Bulletin office —the third, by the
way, they have had to put in during the
last year or two —when one of them dropped
into a tank cutout of the solid sandstone. There
was still Oft. of beautifully clear water in
it. Just on a century and a half ago the
Tank Stream joined up with the harbor at
what is now the south-west corner of Cir-
cular Quay; and for a few hundred yards
the houses in George-street had back yards
running down on to this stream, which for
some little distance was really a tidal creek.
In several of these back yards wells were
cut into the sandstone, and were filled by
seepage from the Rocks above. In course
of time they got covered over or filled in ; the
one over which machinery has been pounding
away in The Bulletin office for 40 years
had been originally covered over with timber
and earth and then apparently forgotten.
Others had followed with more earth and
concrete, until there was a crust which pro-
bably wouldn’t have been disturbed for an-
other hundred years if this new machine
hadn’t cried out for deep foundations.
THE CRITIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A recent English visitor has discovered in Aus-
tralia a vile accent and a lack of courtesy amounting
to rudeness.”
I'm writing my Impressions; for I’ve spent
a fortnight here.
“The Truth About Down Undau” is the
title —to appear,
If all goes well, next autumn, the sensa-
tion of the year.
A constable I interviewed. “Ha. officah,”
said I.
“Direct me to the station, please.” Wita
gross discourtesy
“ ’Twould bite yer if it was a dawg,” the
fellow made reply.
I went into the G.P.O. High on the office
wall
A placard in block capitals said “Courtesy to
All.”
Behind the grille I saw a clerk, ferocious,
lank and tall.
“Do you sell stamps, my man?” I asked.
He grinned and turned his head.
“’Ere, ’Erb! Do we sell stamps? Lord
Somers wants to know,” he said.
“Cripes, no. But we’ve _ got cigarettes, if
that will do instead.”
When entering a tram-car from an island in
the street . .
(A proletarian vehicle unfit: for the ditto)
“Hey! Step on it!” the driver cried, e’en
as I raised my feet.
Two maidens, fair as Sheba’s queen, won
my approving smile,
Until they spoke. “Look, Myrt.,” said one,
“ain’t he a bit of style?”
“Yeh, he’s the mustard,” Myrt. rejoined, m
accents like a file.
I’ve booked by the Oronsay. I shall not
come here again;
Your country isn’t worth it, nor your women,
nor your men....
Still, a few thousand “dinkum blokes” are
helpful now and then.
VICTORIA.
WAWHERESH.


_ “ R - . Volt ”: If the cable staff of
LOCOS has no souvenir from the Emden
one of them has a relic of even greater
interest. It is the key on which operator
La Nauze sent out the wireless call which
brought the Sydney into the business. The
German landing party seem to have felt
that they had a special derry on that piece
of apparatus because they smashed it almost
out of recognition.
j}* jj-
Runa : Though the ship's steward can-
not always show his contempt for the pas-
senger, he has opportunities of revealing his
disrespect for the passenger’s estimate of a
fitting honorarium. A man standing on a
Sydney wharf the other day asked a steward
on a just-arrived Maoriland liner to pass
over a small suitcase leaning against the
bulwarks at the steward’s feet. The person
addressed languidly handed the case over,
and the grateful recipient passed up a coin!
Witn an expressionless face the tip specialist
surveyed a sixpence, then with superb non-
chalance separated his finger and thumb and
allowed the coin to drop into the ocean.
* * =!< *
“Ephraim Mugwump’’: Australia didn’t
fake the early disciples of William Booth
to its heart any more than England did. In
Sydney the fiercest rows were at Newtown,
where there were such scenes of riot and
disorder that the authorities contemplated
forbidding the red-jerseyed soldiery to march
through the streets. Surry Hills and Wool-
loomooloo were not much more enthusiastic.
Some of the hostility came from religious
fanatics who thought the Army blasphem-
ous; but the squashiest objections were flung
in by lads of the village who resented
previously amenable females of the species
being “saved.”
* * * sjc
“M.G.S.”: The scene in “Victory,” at
Melbourne Royal, in which Zangiacomo’s
orchestra mingles with the guests of Scliom-
berg’s hotel in Sournbaya suggests that Con-
rad knew the old tingle tangle in Singapore,
There was never any such place in Sourabaya
as far as I am awqre, but in Singapore it
was; the sole diversion, except the dubious
delights and dangers of Malav-street for
the exiled white man. It consisted of 40
Austrian girls, whose employer had to for-
feit a £lOO guarantee per head to the
Austrian Government if lie failed to return
them in good order. The girls comprised
an orchestra, but when it struck up
guests were allowed to rush the dais and
purloin the oboe or the second violin and
dance with her. There were always plenty
CATCHES IT BOTH
WAYS.
“Nae, I canna stand taxis,
Jessie! When Ah seet wi'
ma back tae th’ driver it
makes me awfu’ sick, and
when I seet with ma face
ta th’ taximeter it makes
me nae better.”
* l )la - v - because not all the girls were
Venuses. After the dance the couples sat
at tables, and drinks were called for. The
girl always asked for champagne for the
Hp ot l °| the .management. At midnight
tlmvf ~^ ave *•', j Klng , . was Piayed, and
there a wild race between tired femmi-
mty and half-sozzled men for the foot of
tlm spiral staircase, which wound up into tho
loft where the company slumbered. But
there was the proprietor— a powerful Vien-
nese—and his wife—a gigantic Hungarian
Boadieea to be reckoned with. The last
laughing cavalier was picked off .the staircase
railing and dropped on to the floor, the last
erirn. i sash and pink skirt vanished through
the trapdo r the proprietor and his lady
followed : and the gate of Eden closed with
a bang like the desolating voice of Reality,
JProfhos”: “R. Volt” lauds the 18-months-
at the expense of the cable (B.
°y/l/ -*')• Yet the cable has been used exclu-
sively for this season’s cricket—a matter of
tae utmost urgency to English newspapers—
and the scores have never, during the whole
series, taken more than 90 seconds from
time of lodgment at the cricket ground to
time of reception in London.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: What a matchless tree is the
Norfolk Island pine! It seems to grow as
well with its roots almost washed by the
sea as it does miles inland. Not even the
admittedly graceful Lebanon or Himalayan
cedars can rival it for beauty of shape or
symmetry of outline, and for rapidity of
growth it leaves the cedar nowhere. Finally,
the wav it stands up to wind is surely unique.
On the sea coast near Adelaide is a small
plantation of foreign pines and native gums,
all bent, twisted or distorted when they have
not been laid prostrate by the prevailing
winds,_ yet near by are Norfolk Island pines
60ft. in height as straight as gun-barrels.
I’ve never yet seen a Norfolk pine uprooted
by the wind, but I have seen one still stand-
ing when every tree around had been laid
low by an October gale—even the enormous
root system of a More ton Bay fig hadn't
saved it from the general fate.
* * * *
“Tipstaff" : The first judicial function held
in Australia took place under a big gum-tree
at the head of Sydney Cove, on Feb. 11,
1788, when the settlement was barely three
weeks old. .Tudgc-advocate Collins presided,
and the other members of the Court were
Captain Hunter, ILN.; Lieutenant Bradley,
of H.M.S. Sirius; Lieutenant Ball, of
H.M.S. Supply; Captains Shane and Mere-
dith and Lieutenant Creswell, of the Marines.
The Court was surrounded by a military
guard under arms, but the show was open
to the public, and there is little doubt that
all who could attended. The proceedings, re-
corded in a crabbed handwriting, are preserved
in the records of the N.S.W. Supreme Court,
although the names of the accused have all
been carefully deleted. This document dis-
closes that “• , a convict, was brought be-
fore the Court, standing charged with per-
sonally abusing Benjamin Cook, drum-major
to the detachment of Marines, and striking
John West, a drummer, with a cooper’s adze,
thereby putting him in fear of his life, on
the afternoon of Friday, the Bth instant.”
The prisoner was found guilty and adjudged,
the record ends, “to receive one hundred
and fifty lashes, on his bare back, with a
cat of nine tails.” Two other cases com-
pleted the list, but the vindication of Drum-
Major Cook’s dignity was the cause cildire
of the day. It was not long before the big
tree that sheltered the Court from the sun
was called upon to do duty as a gallows.
* =l= :!; rr.
‘ O Cult” : _ A story in which some early
Australian history is wrapped up comes from
Maoriland. It starts with Thomas Kendall,
the first missionary to endeavor to Chris-
tianise the Maoris. He settled later in N. S.
Wales, where he became so useful to the
Government that when his second daughter
married a young surveyor named Florence
the Administration invited the young bride
to select a square mile of land as a wedding
present. She and her husband decided to
accept an area in the vicinity of what is now
the town, of Orange, and there they settled.
Left a widow after a few years of marriage,
Mrs. Florence went to Maoriland in 1834,
first giving a one-hundred-years’ lease of her
property, the consideration being a lump
sum, paid in advance. Mrs. Florence died
and her daughter, who married a whaling
skipper named Williams, inherited her estate 5
But Mrs. Florence’s papers did not include
any document substantiating her claim to
ownership of land in N. S Wales Her
daughter’s husband made repeated applica-
tions to the Lands Dept, in Sydney but the
Crown grant of the land was not forth-
coming. A few weeks ago Mrs Williams's
daughter, at her mother’s suggestion ‘ con-
suited an itinerant clairvoyant The’man
so the story runs, without asking anv oues-
tions. said abruptly. “You are seeking a
missing document. ‘lt has been lost for a
long time, but if you apply now to the Lands
Office in Sydney it will be sent to von.” And
sure enough it was. It was discovered that
NO FRIENDS OF HERS, EITHER.
MISTRESS (to new maid) : “Now I want to warn you—you are not to encourage police-
men to come about the house. That’s how my last maid lost her place.”
NEW MAID: “Oh no, Mum, you can trust me—they put my dad away, so I don’t like
’em, either.”
the property was occupied by a number of
persons who, the ownership of the land being
unestablished, considered themselves owners
of their sections, but the tardy discovery
of the original Crown grant and the sub-
sequent lease have put Mrs. Williams into
possession of property valued at £OO,OOO.
* * * *
“Red Jacket”: The prison-hulk Success
made her first appearance in Australian
waters as an immigrant-ship from London,
Captain J. Stewart being her commander,
and then she was transferred to the Indian-
Australian run as a passenger and cargo
carrier. In 1852, while still on that job,
she sailed into Corio Bay (Geelong), where
ber crew deserted salt water for the diggings,
A few months later the Vic. Government
hit on the scheme of appropriating idle
vessels and converting them into floating
gaols; and that s.how the Success and four
others became prison hulks. At S 9 she is
still seaworthy.
* * * *
Limers”: “Stellsby” attributes mammoth
waves, “beloved of journalists,” to the fact
that the modern liner cuts through the seas
that smaller craft used to ride (B. 30/l/’29),
but there are official records to show that
huge waves are not a modern invention,
In an official Admiralty publication, “A
Practical Manual of Tides and Waves,”
numerous such are quoted, some of them
having been recorded in the days when there
were no big ships. Of comparatively recent
instances it will suffice to quote one out of
a hundred: “In 185)5 the s.s. Montgomery
Castle, when 300 miles west of the Azores,
shipped a solitary sea which washed over-
board the master, both mates and five sea-
men.” And she was a tiny enough boat,
by modern standards. Abnormal waves are
usually caused by some subterranean dis-
turbance, or by a building-up process, large
and small wind-waves approaching each other
from different directions and coalescing.
* * * *
“A.8.C.”: In the days when Elizabeth-
street in Melbourne was a track through fern-
trees, and when the few people at outlying
settlements had to walk into town if they
required the services of a doctor, a woman
carried her baby six miles for help. The
child had been in pain for many hours, and
screamed throughout that walk in the burn-
ing sun. The doctor could find nothing the
matter. For days the child seemed to be
in agony. Another visit to another doctor
resulted in an examination of the infant's
eye and the drawing out of a well-sprouted
oat. The mother, an old lady when she told
me the story, said that the shoots and roots
were bleached white, but were very sturdy.
The poor little victim, though instantly re-
lieved from pain, had to go through life with
a blind eye.
* * * *
“N’lmporte”: Frederick Walters and a
mate were brushing scrub on a farm in the
\thetton Tableland TO 1 last Tune when
Atneiton raoieiana last June,
they suddenly ceased operations. V eeks after-
tvaids the mang.ed body of V alters, head
missing, was found. A man was tracked
down over the range through Cairns to
Gordonvale, and there the trail vanished.
The police decided that they would likes a
few words with James Maurice Kelly, the
missing partner of Walters, and a warrant
was immediately issued for his arrest. An
arrival in England by a foreign boat that
left Cairns about the time of Kelly's dis-
appearance was grabbed, and released. He
bore no resemblance to the missing man.
Next a man who was doing 14 days for
vagrancy on Thursday Island drew on him-
self the suspicion of the Island police. He,
too, bore little resemblance to either the
description or the photograph of Kelly, both
of which were in his custodians’ possession;
his own story is that they pestered him so
much that at last he admitted everything
they; wanted him to admit, winding up by
signing two “confessions.” For this'he got
a free trip to Cairns, where he denied any
knowledge of the Atherton murder, except
what he had read in newspapers, and was
discharged by a disgusted magistrate, w-ho
regretted that the law had no power to get
home on this kind of practical joker. Mem-
while the whereabouts of Kelly is a deeper
mystery than ever,
* * * *
“Brilliant Deeps”: One of Oswald Prvor’s
drawings has set me wondering if the Cor-
nish miner still takes his toll. I recall
one old chap on the Towers, who was
remonstrated with when a nice specimen was
found in his boot, retaliating “Wud ’ee
muzzle ox treadlin’ out "corn? I takes my
half-ounce reg’lar.” Another, a prominent
preacher in chapel and a mighty pray-er,
was going off shift when he ran across some
boys playing cricket. “Give us ball,” he
said, putting down his crib can; “I’ll show
'ee.” The batsman hit his first delivery hard
and sent the crib can spinning. Off came
the lid, and out came half a dozen as nice
specimens as ever helped to float a company,
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: That unpleasant old
custom of burying people alive under foun-
dations (B. 30/l/’29) received an unexpected
advertisement last week, when extensive riots
broke out among the Hindu mill-workers
of Bombay. A rumor grew that the Pathan
community in the city had kidnapped a
woman worker with the intention of embed-
ding her in the wall of a new dock nearing
completion. What interest the wild hillmen
could have taken in a dock is not very
? fi bile . as Moslems the idea of
t 0 v°“’JET** 1
H d , s a populai pastime. No\ ertheless,
V/ 0 , father fl of ? row ’ , witb
the full to overflowing, and at
En « hsh inspector of police sent
to Join numelous predecessors,
* * * *
“Oxmead” : Lndendorf. who has been advis-
ing Germans to renounce Christianity in
favor of the old pagan gods, probably
got the idea from Heinrich Heine, who
wrote a striking poem on the subject. I
forget the title, but an Oxford professor
Englished whole passages of it in lines that
I can never forget. After dejectedly eon-
templating the new gods, “gloomy and spoii-
ers of mirth in humility’s guise,” the poet
let himself go :
Lo! there cometh upon me a sudden ire
n d 1 yearn to tear down the new-born fane
*° fi " ht f ° r t he ancient gods again
£nd before rude temple and flaming pyre
g mo j- ing W ith victims, as onoe they were,
To kneel and lift up the hands in prayer,
'phere was something particularly impressive
in the ending whe re Heine claimed credit
for sympat hy’with the under-dog:—
_ , , ~
For'aye in thestrife of me™ >OU ‘
y e stood with the victors then,
But now in the strife of the gods I take my stand
With the vanquished band.
Plenty of poets have doubtless felt that way-
before now, but it is a new thing to find a
field-marshal heading a “Back tc Olympus”
pilgrimage.
PROTEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I don’t mind sayin’
That I don’t like dyin’;
It’s no good prayin’
An’ I’m tired of tryin’.
This earth ain’t Ilehvcri—
That’s past denyin’—
But I'm used to livin’
And I don’t like dyin*.
“I’m old and sickly,
An' I got to bear it;
It's cornin’ quickly,
But you’re not near it.
For all your grievin’
And for all your cryin’,
You’re all still livin’—
An’ it’s me that’s dyin’.”
N.S.W.
CICELY LITLE.


ŵ
Suggested as an
Ideal Wedding Gift
The article illustrated combines
excellent quality with attractive
appearance, and its practical value
stamps it as a gift certain of appreci-
ation.
Inspect the wonderful range of
exclusive articles suitable for gift
purposes at our Showrooms, or write
for our latest Catalogue.
ẁ
m
#;r%
§
s
Quality that Dominates
m
MANGROVITE
LEATHER OR
RAW-HIDE BELTING
ẃ
PERSONAL
ITEMS
When Maurice Collins, who beat pic-
turesque Dicky Foster for the Wakefield
(S.A.) seat, refused to second the address-
in-rcply to the G.-G.’s speech at Canberra,
it was whispered that he was a nervous man.
Very few people seeing Mr. Collins, who
ARCHBISHOP KELLY, of Sydney, who
has a birthday to-day (13th). He is 79.
His statue will shortly join that of
Cardinal Moran in St. Mary’s.
tops six feet and weighs 15 stone, would be-
lieve it. Very few did. The fact is that the
burly Agrarian stood for Wakefield in con-
tempt of the BruCe-Page pact, and was
severely critical of the Government. He
remembered these things, though Bruce was
willing to forget them. For days his col-
leagues tried to persuade him to accept the
Prime Minister’s invitation, but he persisted
in his refusal. Perhaps Collins will learn
that it is a simple matter to say one thing
and mean another —for a politician, anyway.
Jimmy McWilliams did not materialise in
the Country party room the day before the
House of Reps, opened, and thus blasted the
hopes of disgruntled Cockies that his help
would be available in the move against Page.
The little Rep. from Franklin was a sick man
when he beat Seabrook. He strained his
heart seven weeks before the election, though
he managed to struggle out of bed and do a
bit of campaigning. He has been given a
room at Canberra next to Percy Stewart,
having refused to submerge his personal
hopes and ambitions in the C.P.-Nat. com-
bination.
Sir Eric Geddes, Dunlop’s massive chief,
allotted 10 days of his busy life to giving
Australia the once-over. His itinerary com-
prised one day in Adelaide, six in Melbourne
and two in Sydney, with a visit to Canberra
and the Governor-General thrown in some-
where. Asked what he thought of Mel-
bourne. his secretary said he had only taken
a letter to the post office, so ho couldn’t
express an opinion. Evidently not a writer.
That should have been enough for any cap-
able novelist to write a book on us.
Charles Stumm, K.C., who succeeds the
late Judge Wooleock on the Queensland
Supreme Court Bench, was born in Too-
woomba and educated at the Toowoomba
Grammar School. He started work as a State-
school teacher, switching to the legal pro-
fession after a few years, lie. was not long
in establishing a sound practice, particularly in
equity and constitutional law, and he has been
a leader of the Queensland Bar for 20 years.
11. IT. Henchman, who iR to take Judge Mac-
naughton’s place, is Yorkshire born, but came
to Queensland in 1878. From Rockhampton
and Brisbane Grammar Schools he went to
Trinity College, Melbourne, becoming a
Queensland barrister in 1899. He has been
a member of the Board of Law examiners
and an acting-District Court Judge. Hench-
man served with the A.I.F. abroad for three
years, returning with a lieutenant’s commis-
sion.
The Victorian conviction that football
is one of the noblest inventions of man
helped Walter Lovell Langslow to become
M.L.A. for Castlemainc-Kyneton. He first
attracted notice as the Castlemainc club’s
delegate to the Bendigo Football League,
lie is a member of the legal firm of McCay,
Thwaites and Langslow. McCay—afterwards
M.IT.R. and Major-Gen.—was M.L.A. for
Castlemaine before Lawson, who beat him in
1899; now the junior partner in the eoficeni
—McCay is no longer associated with it—
becomes member for the district.
Lord Athlumney, recently dead in Ire-
land. was Provost-Marshal in London dur-
ing the war. He married Margery Boan,
daughter of Harry Boan, the Perth (W.A.)
draper; they had no children, and the
title goes to a cousin. Another cousin,
Cyril Lambart, lives in Brisbane.
The cablcman reports that a Rnysdael from
the Lushington collection of paintings
brought 3000 guineas at Christie’s. The
collection was taken to Auckland (M.L.) by
Charles Hugh Lushington in 1882. For
years it was housed in Mahurangi, in a
stone annexe to the wooden homestead. Lush-
ington died 20 years ago. His widow, a
native of Sydney, now 83 years old, still has
pictures and china worth many thousands.
That brilliant Australian Professor Graf-
ton Elliot Smith has been appointed British
representative at the Pacific Science Con-
gress in Java next May. The N. S. Welsh-
man is the world’s foremost exponent of the
diffusionist theory of human culture, which
holds that civilisation arose in the Nile Val-
ley and spread from there like ripples on a
pond from a thrown pebble. American
savants, who don’t like deriving their civi-
lisation from the Gyppo, have lately been
attacking this theory with vigor; so there
should be some verbal fisticuffs between per-
spix-ing philosophers of human origins amidst
the hothouse atmosphere of Buitenzorg.
Ashworth’s dairy, cpread over a sandpatch
between Waverley and Randwick, was
familiar to Sydneysiders in the ’eighties and
’nineties. James Ashworth established it 44
years ago;, he brought from England a
family of 11 children and very little
capital. When his acres began to develop
a residential value he went into the building
trade. He celebrated his 90th birth-
day in Sydney the other day, and spent part
of it calculating how much the ground for
which he gave £3 an acre is worth to-day.
A lot in Kew cemetery has been claimed
by Robert Richardson, Melbourne’s Board
of Works treasurer for 20 years. Previously
in the State Water Supply Department,
Richardson went over to the board when it
was established 38 years ago. and worked
under chairman Fitzgibbon till the White
Knight was no more. He was retained for
nearly three years after reaching the retiring
age of 65, and when he resigned in Nov. he
was given £GOO in addition to retiring
allowance. The board has now reason to
shake hands with itself upon having treated
a good servant generously.
William Forgan Smith. Deputy-Premier
of Queensland, has a distant connection in
the C.Q. sugar area in John Forgan. shire
clerk of Woongarra. John Forgan is poli-
tically the antithesis of William Forgan.
He enjoys a local fame through being the
only man in the last quarter of a century to
give a close run in an election contest to
George Barber, M.L.A. for Bundaberg.
The Speck’s Leg. Assembly misses the pic-
turesque figure of Peter Murdoch, who was
passed over at the
last general elec-
tion. A dairy-
farmer and fruit-
grower, Peter was
an untiring advo-
cate of the man on
the land, and his
illustrations were
invariably personal
and pointed. On
one occasion he de-
clared vehemently
that to get the
wherewithal to buy
a suit of clothes
lie would have to
milk cows for four
days. Another time
he extracted and
flourished before
the startled House
a set of false teeth
which, he protes-
ted, had cost him
28 bushels of
plums.
WALLACE
BRUCE, some
time Mayor of
Adelaide, chair-
man of the Peace-
in-Industry Con-
ference, which
begins . its second
session in Sydney
on Monday.
William Orr, a piqnoer of Australian
mining since 1852, lias passed on m Mel-
bourne at the ago of 8(i. lie came into pro-
minence at Broken Bill early in the history
of that field, becoming associated with the
directors of the first Prop, board, find in
particular with Bowes Kelly and William
Knox. Then it was at Orr’s instance that
Schlapp, Kelly and Knox became interested
in Mt. Lyell. Through John Godkin and
liis wife, Orr next turned his attention to
the Hampden Cloncurry field. After that
he took matters quietly as a mining pro-
motor. There are very few of his content-
poraries alive to-day.
Brigadier-General Bertie Lloyd, whom
the Nationalists have selected to contest
Parramatta in place of that other “Briga-
dier” whose lamented death occurred last
month, is almost everything that Bruntnell
was not. As a fighting soldier he approached
perfection. Fear was a weakness lie never
seemed to have known; and yet he was
tolerant of nerve-strain in others. He looked
equally spick and span on the Peninsula, m
Flanders and on parade, find he battled
furiously to keep others up to the same sar-
torial standard. There was no better gunner
on the technical side in the A.I.F. (He is
one of those who can write the P.S.C. after
his name.) Also, he is a first-class racon-
teur. And no general in France had a finer
vocabulary for those occasions when disci-
pline demanded that epileptic rage should be
registered. Lloyd is naturally good-tempered,
but he registered rage well, amateur acting
having always been one of his hobbies. His
political opinions are something of a mys-
tery, but it is a safe bet that he will go to
the top in Macquarie-street. He does it
everywhere.
A country origin has never been a bar
to legal success in Melbourne. Like many
of their colleagues, Victoria’s two new
K.C.’s, Eugene Gorman and Robert Gordon
Menzies, heard the musical call of Straw-
berry before they heard the equally melo-
dious cry of the court usher. Gorman was
born at Goornong, near Bendigo; Menzies
at Jeparit, in the Wirnmera. Menzies had
a brilliant scholastic career which began at
the Jeparit State shcool and graduated
through Ballarat to Wesley College find the
University.. Gorman's academic exploits run
second to his war record. He served with
the 22nd, collected the Military Cross, a
captain’s commission, and a fractured leg,
and wrote a history of liis battalion.
The last three Vic. State by-elections have
resulted in the choice of men of law——Mac-
farlan, now Attorney-General, and Langs-
low for the Assembly; and Menzies, now
honorary Minister, for the Uppish House.
Mac-farlan and Langslow, however, replaced
men of the same profession—the late Speaker
Snowball find Senator-elect Lawson.
A pathetically slow Sydney ex-solicitor
named Percy Davey Wynne was awarded the
maximum, seven years’ penal servitude, the
other day for shortage in the trust funds.
He was arrested in January, 1924. but
absconded, leaving his bail in tears. He was
recaptured in December, 1928, at Geelong,
where he was running an estate agency under
the thin disguise of Percy Davis. That was
all the distance he had covered in nearly five
years. It is strategy for Gentleman One to
stay around for a time while the police
exhaust the hackneyed possibilities of Cape-
town, Colombo, Port Said and Panama, but
lingering may degenerate into laziness. His
Honor took the trouble to speak severely to
the prisoner, but he omitted the main point,
that Percy was no Cup winner.
Sir Arthur Duckham has bought out a
Melbourne firm, and proposes to float a com-
pany with mixed Australian and British
capital to develop the enterprise, which goes
in for using wasted by-products of coal. The
spokesman for the Big Four has tried his
hand at all sorts of manual toil. At the
Peace-in-Industry Conference in Melbourne,
when a union representative complained of
the inability of capitalists to understand the
viewpoint of the working man through inex-
perience of his trials, the British magnate
offered to engage in a bricklaying contest
with the speaker. There was no response,
the union leader being a solicitor.
“Tiny” Freyberg, V.C., who has just been
given a battalion of the Manchester Regi-
ment, had the unenviable experience of leav-
ing the war a general and starting again as
a junior captain. Ho served for years with
the Brigade of Guards, always chafing
against the inactivity of the life, and never
winning much popularity amongst his fellow-
officers. In 1920 Freyberg scandalised the
more conservative element by joining the
rather-derided army of Channel swimmers.
He failed, though he is a fine swimmer and
a man of Herculean strength; his war
wounds, which are so numerous in some parts
of his anatomy that it is impossible to put
a finger-tip between them, opened under the
influence of the salt water and wore him out.
It was his swimming that earned him his
D.S.O. at Gallipoli.
Dave Stewart, who died in Brisbane the
other day, was one of the personalities of
the capital whose mayor is .Tolly. A boot-
maker of renown, like his father before him,
he numbered many notable folk among his
customers, with all of whom he was on the
most confidential terms. No Governor was
considered as having quite made, good until
he received the accolade of a pair of Dave’s
boots. Sir William Macgregor swore by
them, and after he left British New Guinea
sent orders from Dagos, Newfoundland, or
wherever he happened to be. Exclusiveness
was Stewart’s watchword. If lie considered
a prospective customer lacked social stand-
ing—lack bf cash never troubled him if the
rest was all right—he would name a price
that would stagger a profiteer.
“F.1.E.”: That reference to the desire of
Yic. Anglicans for an Australian successor
to Archbishop Lees (B. 23/l/’29) struck
a sympathetic chord in many R.C. breasts.
Since the R.C. hierarchy was established in
Australia, 95 years ago, 50 members have
been Irish, six English, two Italian and
three Australian. Two of the Australians
(they happen to be brothers) are the only
representatives of the native-born among the
SEYMOUR RANK, conductor for the S.A.
Operatic Society, which has just given
a season of “The Quaker Girl” and
handed Adelaide charities £833, the net
proceeds.
20 living bishops. Certainly many of the
Irish were long resident in Australia prior
to their episcopal appointment. There have
been approximately 450 graduates from
Manly College since its foundation in 1889,
but not one has worn the purple. Ecclesias-
tical subdivision is due in Queensland : this
year; there are to be additional bishoprics,
at Townsville and Toowoomba. So the hopes
of Manly College men, dashed so often,
have been raised again.
MISJUDGED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“At the Shepherd inquiry Mr. Campbell .Tones
deposed that on one occasion in Sydney the Prime
Minister asked his advice on the subject of making
speeches. Mr. Bruce said, ‘My trouble, Campbell
.Tones, is that I look so damned superior.’
(Laughter.)”
Said Stanley Bruce to Campbell Jones: “I
grow each session wearier
Of hearing my detractors say I look so
damned superior.
Advise me —you are Yorkshire-bred and con-
sequently leericr
“Than I —how can I dissipate this breath
of near-divinity,
This swankiness that, since I won my Cam-
bridge blue at Trinity,
Hale, rugged democrats profess to sense in
my vicinity?
“In point of fact I care no more for Vere de
de Vere frivolities
Than chaps like Teddy Theodore for prole-
tarian jollities;
My eminence depends upon less superficial
qualities.
“How can I help it that my nose is caryod
and curved patricianly,
Or that my digits tell of tastes artistic and
musicianly ?
Yet both are attributes by which I’m handi-
capped addition’ly.
About my clobber I admit I’m rigidly punc-
tilious.
Still, to be viewed on that account as just
a supercilious
Toff is the sort of thing to make a fellow
atrabilious.”
Said Campbell Jones: “Plug hats and spats
and freakishly uncommon hose
Are liable to get a man misjudged, as every
pommy knows.
Unbehd, old man! Let’s have a beer and
play a game of dominoes.”
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


Do You Keep Power Transmission Records?
cA
$
ft, — .s*
si/ 4 •US Hi o'*^
Figures regarding tlie belts used on every drive in
your factory will sometimes disclose power leaks that
should be stopped; drives on which the belts wear
out much more rapidly than they should; drives that
are a source of trouble through faulty Belting
Equipment.
The user of
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
is assured of the quality and serviceability of his beltiug equipment—of
efficiency, long life and low cost of upkeep.
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
J. C. LUDOWICI <a SON, LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, Sydney.
Pioneer Tanners and Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE AGENTS
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 20-26 Queen’s
Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoev Fry, Ltd., Edward
Street, Brisbane;
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell & Sons,
Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
NEW' ZEALAND: Friar, Richards & Upton,
Auckland.
Patterson & Barr, Ltd., Dunedin.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HAVE YOU MADE YOUR WILL?
PERPETUAL. TRUSTEE COMPANY (Limited) is specially qualified to act
as Executor and Trustee. Among its advantages are—SECURITY, CON-
TINUITY OF MANAGEMENT (it does not die), ACCESSIBILITY (it is
always available to its clients), EXPERIENCE (it has handled almost every
class of asset). Its CHARGES ARE MODERATE.
DIRECTORS:
T. H. KELLY (Chairman). WALTER T. BRUNTON.
Dr. R. L. FAITHFULL. HERBERT R. LYSAGHT.
Sir SAMUEL HORDERN. SHF.PHEARD E. LAIDLEY.
Managing Director: R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Write For Booklet.
Manager: H. V. DOUGLASS.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Sydney Ferries, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 45,590 7J p.c. = 38,750 6,840 12,891
1919.. 44,548 74 „ „ 38,750 5,798 18.G89
1920.. 52,981 94 „ 50,502 2,479 21,168
1921.. 49,570 8 „ „ 47,141 2,429 23,597
1922.. 58,244 8 „„ 48,733 9,511 33,108
1923.. 50,964 8 „„ 49,867 1,097 34,205
1924.. 56,184 8 „ „ 49.867 0,317 40,522
1925. . 55,086 8 „ „ 49.867 5.219 45,741
1926.. 54,242 8 „„ 49,867 4,375 50,116
3927.. 50,488 8 „ „ 49,867 621 50,737
1928.. 00,983 8 „„ 49,867 11,116 61,853
The board called £50,215 of the year’s tak-
ings net profit. That was after £10,768 had
been added to the insurance reserve, making
it £58,181; the reserve fund remained un-
changed. But tin* disclosure of profits suffici-
ent to pay the usual 8 p.c. div., and perhaps
a bit more, is all that need be looked for
during the next few years.
The investment position is largely gov-
erned by the board’s special depreciation
policy, the genesis of which is the rise of the
Harbor Bridge and its expected opening for
traffic about the end of 15)31. This public
work has changed the complexion of the eo.’s
affairs. For one thing it is expected to either
entirely Avipc out or most seriously diminish
the eo.’s Milson’s Point, Lavender Bay and
vehicular ferry services, which are very im-
portant profit-earners. Many of the steam-
ers, especially the larger ones, the board says,
cannot then be profitably employed by the
eo. and will be of little value. This is the
position as the co.’s engineer sees it:—
Esti-
Cost Rook mated
to Value, Value,
Co. 31/12/’27. 31/12/’3l.
Milson’s Point, Lav-
ender Bay .. £209,192 £101,584 £18,750
Vehicular . . . . 201,394 123,028 15,450
£410,586 £225,212 £34,200
Balance of fleet . . 291,999 104,109 26,350
Total .. .. £702,585 £329,321 £60,550
To enable the co. to maintain an 8 p.c. div.
and to write down the fleet and other fixed
assets to their estimated worth at Dec. 31,
15)31, and thus preserve shareholders’ capital
intact, an extra Id. was tacked on to the cash
(casual) passenger fare, making it 3d. on
the runs that threaten to he wiped out by
the Bridge. It is figured that the increased
fare will swell the revenue by £35,000 p.a.
Since the co. operates a public utility,
has a monopoly of its field and an opulent
past, its figures were at once under sus-
picion. In response to public clamor the
Government appointed accountants Wolfen-
den and Marks to investigate. They reported
that the increase in the fare Avas not justi-
fied. On the other hand, one of the co.’s
own accountants and two other accountant
firms said that under the circumstances there
was nothing else for the hoard to do. Then
the Crown Law Office was consulted as to
the power of the Government to regulate the
fares; and Ministers were advised that the
law gave no powers in that regard. There
the matter stands.
Last year two of the smaller boats were
sold, reducing the fleet to 39 passenger and
9 vehicular vessels at Dec. 31. At that date
ship property stood in the hooks at £288,118,
down £43,118 during the year. Thus to do
what is aimed at the board Avill have to write
down the book value of the fleet £75,856 p.a.
(over 10 p.c. on cost) for the next three
years. lii addition to the extra revenue from
fares, savings are expected from the curtail-
ment of services on non-paying runs. Prior
to 1922 depreciation was allowed at the rate
of 4 p.c. p.a.; for the next five yean the
average rate was 6 p.c. p.a. .
Last year’s surplus earnings, includixy pro-
vision for depreciation, and the compensa-
tion (£78.000) and interest (£9386) received
in connection with the Milson’s Point re-
sumption, enabled the board to clip £20.218
off the debt and increase the liquids, mainly
public securities and money at short call, by
£118.456. Thus the spring in the more or
less liquid surplus was £138.674. Here are
the figures with comparisons :
1923. 1920. 1927. 1928.
Liquid assets. . £73,729 £146,897 £158,384 £276,840
Laibilities .. 41,726 106,352 73,609 53,391
Surplus . . £32,003 £40,545 £84,775 £223,449
As soon as circumstances will allow —said
“circumstances” chiefly arise out of legal
proceedings concerning the Taliiti-Greycliffe
disaster—the board proposes to ease the
position by returning £2ik>,ooo or so of the
£623,332 of paid capital, approximately Bs.
per fully paid £1 share. An 8 p.c. div. will
then call for about £29,000, or less than half
of last year’s disclosed profit. Provided
nothing out of the ordinary happens, appear-
ances are that one way and another the
board might be able, if it so desires, to re-
turn something in the neighborhood of
another quarter-million of capital about the
end of 1931. If that can be and is done the
capital account would then be reduced to
approximately £123,000.
At Dec. 31 last the holding in the subsi-
diary, Harbor, Land and Transport Co.,
stood in the books at £107.000. The pup took
over the parent’s land properties, or most of
them, in 191 S for £90,000 in fully paids, of
which £SB,OOO Avas represented by free-
holds and a trifle of leasehold. In the
following year its assets were found
to be worth 00 p.c. more than their book
value, and they have, no doubt, appreciated
since. It paid' S. 9 and then 10 p.c. for the
three years to Dec. 31. 1927. But, accord-
ing to the directors, nothing more than S p.c.
is expected in the future. Exactly what net
asset backing the pup’s shares now have has
not been disclosed.
Provided the co. is able to return sufficient
capital and retain its holding in the subsi-
diary, its prospects of paying a reasonable
div. after the Bridge is opened for traffic are
far from hopeless. Much will depend upon
whether, under altered conditions, the present
non-paying services can be turned into profit
earners. Competition from electric trams and
motor-’buses will tend to keep fares in
check, but better service and new runs
may help to win more business.
Here is the co.’s present position, with
comparisons, as far as balance-sheet figures
disclose it: —
1923. 1929. 1927. 1928.
Liabilities .. £41,727 £100,352 £73,009 £ 53,391
Landed property 92,277 115,125 115,072 45,080
Ship property .. 403,230 379,936 331,236 288,118
Wharves and wait-
ing-rooms .. 43,885 45,327 50,772 37,437
Plant & machinery 3,362 9,133 8,811 7,638
Fuel & stores, etc. 14,021 14,447 14,097 12,724
Shares in other
cos 107,000 107,000 107,000 107,000
Sundry debtors .. 8,900 20,328 29,384 25,816
Public securities,
etc 48,489 110.607 113,741 234,049
Cash .. .. 3,033 2,829 2,498 5,646
During the year the book value of fixed
assets decreased £127.618, due mainly to de-
preciation and settlement of the Milson’s
Point claim.
The market expresses its confidence in the
future by paying 21s. 9d. for the fully paid
pound shares, thus pricing the assets at their
book value at Dec. 31. The return at the
current price is 7.3 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
Australian Provincial Assurance
Towards
Re- Nominal
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses.* serves. Reserves.
£,£>£> & £
1918.. 164.925 22,434 121,938 20,553 10,512
Southern Insurance Co.’s funds
transferred.. .. .. 5,896 16,408
1919.. 209,103 33,378 125,378 50,347 66,755
Premium on shares ~ .. 100,000 166,755
1920.. 391,102 33,873 168,575 188,654 355,409
Premium on shares .. .. 65,438 420,847
1921.. 375,163 55,332 238,044 81,787 502,634
Written off Life funds and
general reserves, £158,356 .. .. 344,278
1922.. 389,266 74,112 231,092 84,062 428,340
1923.. 417,503 70,798 205,151 141,554 509,894
1924.. 448,628 54,055 214,970 179,603 749,497
1925. , 357,212 69,196 149,226 133,790 ) o 0„ „ a 7
Superannuation fund, £5OOO .. j BB ' 8
Added to establishment, £174,340 . . 708,947
1926.. 382,789 60,728 129,313 186,748 895,695
Superannuation fund taken in, £5000.. 900,695
Sept.,
1927 t. 287,631 53,573 73,410 160,648 1,061,343
L.C.A. absorbed; added Life
fund 497,017 1,558,360
Added other reserves .. 19,759 1,578,119
Assets written up, £50,378 .. 1,628,497
1928. . 447,856 95,774 108,475 243,607 1,872,104
* Expenses include dividends to shareholders ; 1920,
£9359; 1921, £49,918; 1924, £42,086; 1925,
£20,352. t 9 months.
The A.P.A. made a promising start 16
years ago. It quickly developed a large
business; but it Avas not a very profit-
able one, because of extravagant expendi-
ture and unsound business methods. Mat-
ters came to a head about three years
ago, when there was a cleavage in
the ranks of the shareholders. HoAvever,
differences were composed, and a neAV board,
headed by E. S. Paul as chairman, took con-
trol. It immediately set to work with re-
markable vigor to clean up the position, and
already has put the business on a basis which
promises to ensure that future progress will
be along sound lines. To begin with, the
accounts were combed, and an extra £174,340
of rubbish got out, making the heap £368,942 at
January 1. 1926. Its size had been reduced
to £137.000 at September 30 last, and, the
board claims, there is tangible value to repre-
sent the difference. Further, the organisa-
tion was overhauled, changes were made in
the chief executive posts, the staff was
reduced and other savings were made.
Last year the business of the L.C.A. was
merged with that of the A.P.A., which holds
all, or nearly all, the former co.’s shares.
Although the transaction was thus mostly a
matter of book-keeping, it was the chief
factor affecting movements in the figures.
The year’s income was £64,34S greater
than in the previous term. The assets
taken over enabled the A.P.A. to add
£497,017, being the amount of liabilities
under the policies acquired, to its Jife fund,
and other reserves benefited by £19,759. The
idea behind the welding of the two businesses
is to further reduce exes, and so increase the
prospects of better returns to both policy-
holders and shareholders.
One unfortunate result of recent dis-
closures lias been a heavy falling-off in the
volume of new business. In the Life depart-
ment assurances totalling £555,149 were put
on the books last year, and that was less than
half the amount written in 1929. There
was also a rather heavy crop of surrenders —
£23,077 as against £9249 for the preceding
nine months.
Here is a detailed view of performances
over the last three accounting periods:—
1020. 1927.* 1928.
Sum assured ..£1,850,003 £783,882 £588,149
First premiums . . 42,884 21,311 10,894
Renewal premiums. 234,901 100,977 282,884
Interest, etc. .. 08,410 74,110 110,070
C airns . . . . 51,150 45,024 80,749
Exes 111,028 01,724 83,497
* Nine months only.
Again the co.’s difficulties show up in new
business costs. Assuming that first pre-
miums are 10 times more costly than
renewals, then last year’s new policies were
written at a cost of ISB p.c. compared with
162 p.c. and IGS p.c. in the two preceding
years. However, exes, consumed only 27. S
p.c. of the year’s net premium income as
against 32.8 p.c. and 40.1 p.c. in the two
years before that. Although the drop in
last year’s ratio was assisted by the smaller
volume of new business, it is plain that
very substantial savings have been made in
exes, during the last two years, and that
promises well, for the future.
In the Accident department the improve-
ment in the expense rate is still more
pronounced, due in part to an altera-
tion in the method of apportioning exes.
Of last year’s net premium income
(£31,402), which was proportionately £2234
lighter than in the previous term, exes,
took only 25.5 p.c. ns against 40.3
p.c. and 48.4 p.c. in 1927 and 1920
respectively. The surplus was £8352 com-
pared with £3270 in 1920, when £5132 more
premiums were gathered.
Recently the eo. changed the method of
valuation from a 4 p.c. modified Sprague to
a 4 p.c. net premium basis. That means
bigger reserves, and, therefore, better pro-
tection for policy-holders. Last year the
return from the co.’s investments was 0.2 p.c.
on the mean life fund. This wide margin
between assumed and actual earnings means
future profits for both policy-holders and co.
- The combined surplus in the two depart-
ments was £200,500: the ordinary growth in
policy liabilities called for £89,240, leaving
£171,314. To this was added £18,907 of the
apparent profit on the L.C.A. merger and
£2894 from the Accident and other
reserves, making the total available for
distribution £193.115. Of this amount
£43,041 was divided amongst policy-holders
in the shape of bonuses —£2 p.c. whole
of life, £1 p.c. endowment, 10s. p.c.
child and other policies. Another £43.000
was set aside to provide bonuses on L.C.A.
policies in respect of the five years to
1927. Shareholders, who had gone hungry
in the two preceding terms, were handed a
5 p.c. div., which called for £10.952.
In accordance with the board’s policy the
balance (£90,122) went to reduce the estab-
lishment account. Also £50,378 of inner re-
serves, disclosed by a revaluation of the
assets, was used for the same purpose, reduc-
ing the intangibles to £137,000 at Sept. 30.
The L.C.A. shares were -written up £7092
(equal to Is. per share), giving them a book
value of £78,012, of which £60,030 appears
as a creditor item on the other side of the
sheet; all but a trifle of the other £11,376
was cash in the hands of the L.C.A. Un-
earned increment in the freehold provided
£43,256 net. The L.C.A. building in Mel-
bourne was assessed at demolition value.
Between them the various recent changes
give prMcy-holders a wider and ample mar-
gin of protection, and strengthen the back-
ing for the shares. This comparison of
balance-sheet figures shows wdiat has hap-
pened :
1926. 1927. 1928.
Public securities .. £639.474 £654,724 £971,892
Mortgages .. 521,155 636,602 683,80*
Loans on policies,
etc. .. 35,234; 38,412 50,010
Book debts, cash,
etc 102,911 72,005 153,361
Equipment . . 16,302 14,409 14,893
Properties . . 198,270 225,529 372,313
Shares in other
cos 71,172 71,172 119,981
Tangible assets .. £1,584,518 £1,712,753 £2,366,257
Sundry creditors .. 318,151 287,370 117,203
Net tangibles . . £1,266,367 £1,425,383 £2,249,054
Assurance fund .. 1,195,112 1,337,852 2,008,973
Paid capital .. 339,046 339,046 339,046
Net tangible assets were £240.081 in excess
of liabilities under policies at Sept. 30;
two years earlier the margin was £71.255.
Thus the backing, which is mostly in good-
quality securities, for each 10s. paid share
has advanced from 2s. Id. in 1926 to 7s. Id.
at Sept. 30 last.
Although the co.’s outlook has brightened
considerably, there is still £158,965 of share-
holders’ capital waiting to be represented
by something more substantial than an estab-
lishment account. Meanwhile shareholders
can greatly strengthen their position by not
clamoring for increased divs.
the year the co.’s scrip was listed.
The market priced it at Os. 6d., tuit follow-
ing the publication of last accounts buyers
offered Bs., and 10s. was asked. At the
middle price the return is 54 p.c. on a 5 p.c.
div. basis.
Richardson and Wrench, Ltd. (Sydney).
Written To Ue Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Oft. serves, serves.
1918.. 8,273 8 p.c. = 5,345 1452 1476 14,079
1910.. 14,883 121 „ „ 7,743 1465 5076 19.751
1920.. 21,299 274 „ „ 19,071 3735 18,247
1921.. 8,147 10 „ „ 6,956 4110 15.329
1922.. 14,394 17 „ ~ 11,840 2962 14,921
Capital returned (ss. per share), £17,412
1923.. 18,607 2H p.c.=12,554 2090 3957 18.878
1924.. 16,290 20 „ „ 10,474 5834 18,800
1925.. 14,307 26n„ ~13,985 3070 10,118
1920.. 19,195 284,, „ 14,859 2994 1342 17;400
1927.. 18,141 2Gfi„ ~13,995 0750 14,850
1928.. 10,302 20},, „ 14,000 4080 13,138
The shrinkage of £1770 in last year’s net
result reflects conditions in the Sydney real-
estate market. There was no actual short-
age of money last year, but early in the
term operators restricted their activities
pending the announcement of the State Gov.-
ornment’s new taxation policy. Speculation
in city properties, which was marked in
1926 and 1927, was less pronounced, and on
the twelve-month city realty turnover fell
away by 2.1 millions sterling. Suburban pro-
perty sales, however, made chiefly on long
terms, notched another record, the estimate
for the year being £4,816.024, an advance
of over £400,000 on the 1927 total, as this
comparison of combined selling-agents’ figutes
shows:—
City. Suburbs.
1918 .. .. £1,000,000 £2,500,000
1920 .. .. 3,000,000 4,375,000
1921 .. .. 1,483,515 2,500,827
1922 .. .. 3,000,000 3,500,000
1923 .. .. 1,864.599 4,324,900
1924 .. .. 2,100,000 8,500,000
1925 .. .. 2,400,000 3,750,000
1926 .. . . 7,000,000 3,750.000
1927 .. .. 5,133.800 4,397,000
1928 . . . . 2,750,000 4,816,024
The basis of those figures,-of course, is the
policy that has crowded one-half of the popu-
lation of N. • S. Wales into one big city;
another factor has been the lavish scattering
of loan funds. Richardson and Wrench got
its full share of business, whatever its origin ;
the shrinkage in its turnover (£1,868,344)
last year amounted to only £325,101, and
gross profit was down only £737.
Here are details of gross earnings:—
1919 .. £27,656 | 1924 .. £33,567
1920 .. 36,690 1925 .. 38,565
1921 ~ 25,369 1926 .. 42,795
1922 .. 81,425 1927 .. 41,225
1923 .. 36,250 | 1928 .. 40,488
Exes. (£24,126), including the staff bonus
(£1200), were £1042 heavier; thus the year’s
net result fell away £1779. Nevertheless it
still represented a juicy 31.2 p.c. on average
capital, compared with 34.6 and 36.6 p.c. in
the two preceding years. That was before
taking into account reductions in the con-
tingency fund, shown as written off in the
table. _ For what purpose the drawings are
made is not clear from the published figures;
the amount was £4OBO last year, leaving the
fund at £5840 when the books closed. Thus,
after allowing for the final divs., visible
reserves totalled £13,138 at Dec. 31.
Prospects for the current year are said to
be bright enough. Owing to a recent amend-
ment of the Fair Rents Act the speculative
builder is becoming active again, and the
demand for allotments in handy suburbs con-
tinues.
Balance-sheet figures disclose a snug
position, as usual:—
1921. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Capital .. .. £69,650 £52,444 £52,500 £52,500
Liabilities.. .. 20,424 39,311 24,588 13,439
Advances .. . . 71,810 43,410 44,335 47.460
Book debts .. 1,972 6,992 7,836 5,462
Cash, etc 31,881 63,964 44,592 32,064
Odds and ends . . 3,222 4,799 5,132 4,041
The outside debt (£13.439), which was re-
duced £11,149 during the year, was covered
more than twice over by cash alone. Ad-
vances (£47,460) show an increase of £3125,
but deposits on sales (£4357) were down
£10.023.
In 1923 ss. of each £1 of paid capital was
returned, and the performance could be
repeated now without strain. The market
prices the scrip at 485.; the return at that
figure being 8.4 p.e. on a 26? p.c. div. basis.
The _ backing amounts to ISs. 9d. in net
tangibles—all of it more or less liquid—for
each 15s. share.


ŵ
ẁ
TIMBER WORKERS’
STRIKE
Arbitration Court Defied
THE FACTS OF THE CASE:
1. In 19-19 the Australian Timber Workers’ Union in all States
other than Queensland selected the Federal Court and sought an
Award.
2. After a protracted hearing the Court reduced hours in all
branches of the industry, increased pay, and granted retrospective
pay for eighteen months, which alone cost the employers OVER
£lOO,OOO and which was duly paid. DID THE UNION IGNORE
THE COURT ON THAT OCCASION? This award on its
expiration was followed by others favorable to the Union and
eagerly embraced by them. The hours were restored to 48 for the
Bush, Country Mills and City Log Mills (embracing one-half the
employees) ; 44 hours then were worked in all other branches of
the industry.
3. The claims for the present Award were firs* filed for hearing
four years ago, and in May, 1928, Judge Lukin by his judgment
extended the operation of 48 hours, and it then covered the great
majority of the employees.
4. The Union demurred and the question was referred to the Full
Industrial Arbitation Court of three Judges, who ordered an inde-
pendent investigation of the employers’ books by a duly qualified
accountant and officer of the Court.
The Full Court Judgment was for 48 hours, and now covers ALL
employees. This the Union refuses to obey and defies the Court.
Wages and conditions have not been materially altered, and the
whole issue is HOURS.
5. The Union remained in Court and tendered evidence until the
last day of the hearing, when its representatives withdrew.
The Union and its officials are asked for a plain
answer to the following questions:—
(a) If the Court had awarded shorter hours and/or higher pay would
they have enforced the Award against the employers, as they have
invariably and rightly done for the past 8 years?
(b) Do they stand for Arbitration when it suits them, and hurl abuse
and defiance on the Court when it does not? IS IT “HEADS WE
WIN, TAILS YOU LOSE”?
(c) How does the Hon. James Culbert, M.L.C., reconcile his oath to
administer the laws of the country with his leadership (as Secretary
of the Union) of an illegal strike against the laws of the Common-
wealth of Australia?
(d) If an employer breaches the Workers’ Compensation Act, the Shop
and Factories Act, or any other Act that benefits the workers would
the Union leaders or the members of the Union hesitate to put the law
of the land in operation against him, as it invariably has done and
rightly should do?
(e) Will they explain where their claim that the 44-hour principle is
attacked when THEY HAVE RECOGNISED AND STILL RECOGNISE
THE PRINCIPLE OF 48 HOURS FOR HALF THE MEMBERS OF
THEIR UNION? Is their only consistency their remarkable incon-
sistency?
(f) Where will the Arbitration Court or any other Court stand if its
decisions are to be ridiculed and defied by any section of the
community?
Authorised by the Sydney and Suburban Timber Merchants’ Association.
F. H. CORKE, Secretary.
CAUSTIC SODA
(ELECTROLYTIC)
LIQUID—32 per cent. Na2o.
POWDEK.ED-98 per cent. NaOH,
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC AClD—
(Muriatic) Commercial, 33%
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
CARBON TETRA CHLORIDE.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE.
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
ZINC CHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
CONCENTRATED SOLDER-
ING AND TINNING FLUXES.
LIQUID CHLORINE
100 per cent, pure Anhydrous
In 100, 150 and 20001 b. Containers.
SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE.
MANUFACTURED BY
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS,
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRAVILIjE. VICTORIA.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.


[PREPARED ]
Guaranteed by the manufacturers to
go further, last longer and uniformly
give better results than any other
paint made. —“8.P.”
"KEEPS ON KEEPING ON!”
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
•or S
uu
/
Dn
Mi
Don’t Lose
Your Money!
MORE THAN HALF
OF ALL REGISTERED
COMPANIES FAIL.
<r
If you invest anything
at all you can’t afford
to be without
“THE ‘WILD CAT
MONTHLY.”
FEBRUARY NUMBER NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
From Newsagents, or “Bulletin” Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
We stock + GF 4. Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas.- Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.— Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
The fact that Pioneer Wood Pipe is non-corrosive
is one of the most important points in favor of its
installation for any fluid conveyance. On water-
supply systems it assures the purity of its contents,
and will at all times maintain constant bore capacity
irrespective of the nature of the liquid carried.
Our latest booklet of complete information will be
mailed on request. The Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at
Footscray, Victoria.— Advt.
* * * *
W. Soren Jensen, late Mt. Morgan G. M. Co.,
Consulting Mining Engineer, 33 Boyle Street, Cre-
morne, Svdney. Box 220 D, G.P.0., Svdney. Tel.
Ylss7.— Advt.
* * * *
Invf.ntohs. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hasssel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castiereagb
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * 9 *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Cou.ison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt
<■ * * * ’
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree.— Advt.
w
* fjOORD&SON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
&
Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agent*. 26 30 Clarence St., Sydney
Recognise Your Duty and Appoint a Reliable Executor
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS & AGENCY
' COMPANY LIMITED
(The Pioneer Trustee Company of Australia )
412 Collins Street, Melbourne,
is specially qualified to act as your Executor and Trustee.
Its experience of over 50 years is ample assurance that it will manage your affairs to the best
advantage. Unlike an individual the Company is permanent, and its Capital and Assets are
available for the protection of Clients’ interests.
DIRECTORS: Sir John Grice (Chairman), Sir J. H. MneFnrland, M.A., LL.D. (Vice-Chairman),
R. 0. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murrav. Alexander Stewart, J. Fordyce.
Empowered by Special Acts of Parliament to operate in the States
of New South Wales and Victoria.
CTTAS. R. SVTBERT. General Manager • '• w.\TSOX. Manager.
Fresh Food and Ice (Syd.).
. . Added to Re-
Dec. t Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 17,979 10 p.c. = 16,511 1,468 57,357
1919.. 24,367 10 „ „ 16,511 7,856 65,213
1920.. 13,876 10 „ „ 10.696 62,393
1921.. 15,352 8 „ „ 15,543 62,202
1922.. 19,816 8 „ „ 17,730 2,086 64,288
1923.. 20,382 8 „ „ 20,309 73 64,361
1924.. 15,460 6 „ ~ 15,233 227 64,588
1925.. 19,348 7 „ 19,303 45 64,633
1926.. 24,254 8 „ 22.567 1,687 66,320
1927.. 9,594 3 „ 8,463 1,131 67,451
1928.. 17,536 6 „ „ 16,925 611 68,062
Shareholders in this Sydney eo. have never
been bilious from fat living. Since the
£73,384 was struck off capital in 1904 in
order to cover drought losses—it was re-
stored by the capitalisations of 1911 and
1913—the average div. has been about 8-J p.c.
p.a. The richest period was the 10 years to
1920, when the div. averaged 10J p.c. Since
then a lot of money has been spent on
freehold, plant and rolling stock, the book
value of the lot having increased £208,734,
reaching £384,743 at Dec. 27 last. Over the
same period £117,977 has been added to the
paid up share capital (now £282,091). and,
to lighten the floating debt and provide for
further expansion of the business, £lOO,OOO in
7 p.c. first mortgage debentures, redeemable
in 1034, was got in shortly before the close
of accounts in 1927. Turnover has in-
creased, but, owing to the keenness of com-
petition. price cutting and steadily mount-
ing costs, profit margins have been so narrow
that the co. has got no benefit from the
bigger trading. Over the last eight years
divs. have averaged only 0J p.c., yet have
called for all hut £5009 of the declared net
earnings. Of the £17.536 netted last year,
and that was £7942 better than the previous
year’s result, only £6ll remained after pay-
ing n 6 p.c. div.
For the extremely poor showing in 1927
the board blamed increased costs of one kind
and another. A little relief was got from
suspension of payments under the Family
Fi'dowment Act, but many of the other dis-
abilities remain. However, last year the
sales of milk, iee, bread and ice-cream all
increased, and business in other depart-
ments was reported satisfactory, though dry
eruditions on the N. S. Wales' North Coast
earnings in the Cold Storage section.
But. as against that, cold storage rates were
increased in Nov., 1927, and that must have
hc)ned. For several years previously price-
cutting had resulted in very inadequate re-
turns on the capital invested. Even now
it is obvious that there is not much profit in
it
Thorp was no change of importance in
balance-sheet figures last year;-
1923. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Hr-l>e:itures . . £lOO,OOO £lOO.OOO
Other liabilities £99,768 £139,585 69,337 69.658
Property f 224.848 227,925 228,209
Pl-nt 304,430 \ 106,590 110,248 111,419
Bolling stock [ 37,254 46,064 45,115
Stock . . 35,749 47,730 48,601 50,596
Cash and
investments.. 29.289 21,393 16,389 22,492
Book debts .. 58,718 68,776 75,551 76,497
After allowing for the final div. the more or
less liquid surplus (CD .461). including
stocks, improved only £260. A trifle more
was spent than was written off on freeholds
and plant, but no hint is given as to what
amount, if any, has been set aside for depre-
ciation. Plant is reported to have been
maintained in an efficient state of repair,
and much depends upon that. The market,
which notes the. irregularity of earnings and
that there are debentures in front of share-
holders. sums up the risks by paying 365.
for the pound shares. At that figure the
return is 71 p.c. on a 6 n.c. div. basis. The
b -eking amounts to 245. lOd. in net tangibles.
When the manaeemont can find more profit-
able use for some of flip plant the appearance
of things might change.
The N.S.W. Associated Blue Metal
Quarries, Ltd.
Nomi-
r —- —Dividends N To Be-ml Re
Nov., Profits. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
1922 .. 14,777 10 n.c. 10 p.c. 10,299 4,478 616
1923.. 16,349 10 ~ 10 ~ 11,824 4,525 5,140
1924.. 18,449 10 ~ 10 ~ 15,000 3,449 8,589
1925.. 20,815 10 ~ 10 ~ 18,193 2,622 11,211
1920.. 25,808 10 ~ 10 „ 19,462 6,346 17,557
1927 . 34,17 S 10 ~ 10 „ 22,917 11,261 28,818
1928.. 33.803 10 „ 10 „ 25,000 8,803 37,621
The present co. took over Prospect, Minna-
murra and Bombo quarries seven years ago,
and the board immediately set out on a
vigorous policy of development. Paid capital
moved up by annual steps from £112.711 in
1922. reaching £250,000 at the close of
accounts in 1927; it remained unaltered
last year. Meanwhile a strong demand
and a good price for metal enabled the
new capital to win very satisfactory returns,
and shareholders have had a steady 10
p.c., sweetened with frequent new share
issues at par. Last year the development
programme was completed with the equipment
of a fourth quarry, at Bass Point.
It is not stated when production com-
menced at the new quarry, hut anticipations
were that operations would begin about half-
•way through the last term. But -whether
that helped or not. after setting aside £7200
for taxation as against £7400 in the previous
year, the net result of the year's trading
receded to 13.5 p.c. on average capital com-
pared with 14.8. 13.2, 11.4 and 12. S p.c.
hack to 1924. That is including as profit
contributions to the depreciation reserve and
amortisation fund. The latter appears for
the first time at £1250, and last year £6500
was added to the depreciation reserve,
making it £27,750. These reserves are all
used in the business, and over 83 p.c. of the
balance-sheet total is represented by quar-
ries, freehold, leases, plant, etc. Too much
importance, therefore, need not be attached
to the so-called reserves, which are labelled
nominal in the table and totalled £37,621
at Nov. 30, after allowing for the final div.
Everything depends upon . the valuation
placed on the fixed assets, and in the case of
a quarry that is largely a matter of guess-
work.
It is on the outlook for profits rather than
on the security for capital that the enter-
prise must therefore be measured as an
investment. In that connection the concrete
age, which this co. serves, appears to have
little more than begun in earnest, the whole
of the co.’s plant is reported in good working
order, the quality of the basalt is right and
the supply “inexhaustible.” Future results
will largely depend upon the course of prices
and the continuance of demand, which is
partly wrapped up with public loan expendi-
ture. Another factor likely to affect earnings
is competition, which is steadily growing and
can be expected to continue to strengthen.
Nobody can be quite sure just what that
might mean ; much will probably depend
upon the development and popularisation of
the use of concrete. All that can be said
definitely is that for the past seven years
the co. lias been able to win good returns.
A comparison of balance-sheet figures
follows:
1923. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Owing on Minna-
murra .'. .. £16,275 £2,325
Overdraft.. .. 1,614 20,662 £8,916 £23,561
Other creditors .. 6,518 15,783 18,416 27,610
Fixed assets .. 131,840 217,371 272,447 299,672
Stocks .. .. 3,651 3,099 3,442 5,804
Hook debts . . 25,735 48,983 48,070 62,199
Cash and sundries 909 2,375 2,738 1,525
Tlie completion of the Bass Point quarry is
reflected in an increase of £27,225 in the
book value of fixed assets. To finance the
outlay the hoard wont to its bankers for an
extra £14.645. and tacked £9194 on to trade
debts. The more or less liquid surplus
(£8357), including stocks, was £18,561
lighter than at the previous balance.
The prefs. —there are 64.407 of them —
carry a cumulative 10 p.c., have priority as
to capital and share in new issues. least
year's net profit was nearly five times their
annual requirements, and the backing
amounted to £4 9s. 3d. per share in net tan-
gibles. The market prices them at 25s 6d.;
at which figure the return is 7.8 p.c.. For
the ords., which are backed by 245. in net
tangibles. 245. 9d. is paid. The return at
that figure is 8 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
An old “Wild Catter’s” reminiscence:—
Tbiitv seven years ago, when I was trudging over
the corduroy at the back of Trial Harbor, giving
The Bulletin its first opinion of the new silverfield
at Zeehan, on the wild West Coast of Tasmania,
two well-known Broken Hill men emerged out of
the awful scrub that lined the track. They were
mounted, and were making heavy weather of it in
this terribly rough country. One was H. H.
Schlapp, the metallurgist whom the Broken Hill
Prop, had 18 months previously brought from
America; the other was William Orr. Of course, we
yarned for a while; Orr explained that he was
taking Schlapp to see a new copper show in from
Macquarie Harbor. The new show was Mt. Lyell;
Schlapp was impressed, and that led to “the Queen-
street crowd” taking it up. Fine old Wm. Orr spent
his life doing that sort of thing; at over 75 he
was still not too old to hop into Mt. Isa, and was
one of the first syndicators on the field. His useful
life ended last week in Melbourne at 84.
* * * *
The latest addition to Australian tin
dredging ventures in Malaya is Chalong Tin
Mines, N.L., a Melbourne co. with a nomi-
nal capital of £165,000 in £1 shares. The
property, acquired from Commercial and
General Investment Trust under agreement
with Asia Amalgamated Tin, another Mel-
bourne co., is at Chalong, Eastern Siam, a
region in which several Australian cos., in-
cluding Tongkah Harbor and Ratrut Basin,
are working. The property has been bored
by E. T. Anderson, who was originally
engaged by Asia Tin Syndicate in 1926 to
investigate properties in Malaya, and by W.
F. Mackenzie. Their joint report states that
99 bores averaging 421 ft. have shown an
average yardage value of 16.3540 z. It is
estimated that the tested area contains
11.656,220 yards of dredgcable dirt. An
option is held over an adjoining 1200 acres
on which Mackenzie has put down 36 bores
with a stated average of 13oz. to the yard.
The values are a good deal higher than re-
cent recoveries in the district by Tongkah
Harbor and others. The engineers report
the absence of boulders and sunken timber.
The property is some miles inland from the
port at Sichon, and is fairly well off for
water; an old race is available for additional
supplies. An up-to-date bucket dredge is to
be installed, and is expected to be operating
within 12 months from the placing of the
order. The expectation is highly optimistic.
Assay value of the ore is 77 p.c.. which is
above the general average for Malaya. It
is figured that the property is worth
£824.000 with tin at £220. The. Investment
Trust is offering 95,000 of its shares in
Chalong at a premium of 2s. each.
❖ ❖ * *
Placer Development, which recently took
an option over three of Guinea Gold’s leases
on the right bank of the Bulolo River with
a view to developing them as dredging areas,
has been busy testing the properties. The
engineers report that the Southern and Cen-
tral leases have been surveyed, and a further
720 acres has been pegged by arrangement
with Guinea Gold, making the total area
1884 acres, excluding the Northern lease.
The surveyed leases extend over a length
of 44 miles, and 11) sectional cross lint's have
been cut through the timber, 20 chains apart,
for drilling and pitting purposes. Results
from the second line of drills put down are
not complete, but it is stated that portion of
the line west of the river carries “satisfac-
tory” values for 2000 ft., to an average depth
of 23ft. The eastern portion has yet to be
tested. A great deal of work has yet to be
done before the nature and capacity of the
ground can be estimated. Gold values in the
prospects wore 535: per oz. The five-dollar
shares are quoted at b. 275. 9d.; s. 295.
* * * *
Yanawai, a Fijian gold proposition which
has been long before the Australian public
in one guise or another, has been reborn in
Sydney under the name of the Snvu Savu
G.M.C. It is proposed to issue 500.000 2s.
(id. shares in 3d. take-ups. Mr. Millett, .a
well-known Fijian commercial man who has
been interested in the show for years, says it
comprises a considerable hillside area in which
a lode formation has been tested by costeens
and a couple of drives into the hill above
the river. The formation is andesite, a
water-deposited silicate, which certainly
carries gold ; some of the samples assayed in
Sydney went from three to four ounces. But
no definite attempt has yet been made to
measure up quantities. The formation is
alleged to average 25ft. in width, and has
been tested for 1000 ft., but what part of it
is ounce ore yet has to be shown. Much of
the ore-handling can be done by gravity, and
wood and water are plentiful and convenient;
native labor is available. The ore is soft
and easily mined, and puddling machines
and a Huntingdon mill are to be installed
to deal with it. It is possible that a small
battery may be added to handle harder por-
tions of the formation. It is an enticing
prospect, though the “Wild iCat” would have
liked to see so’mc bulk sampling.
* * sj: *
Kalimna Oil Company, N.L., is a Mel-
bourne float to prospect for oil at Lakes
Entrance (Vic.). Nominal capital is
£lOO,OOO in 200,000 10s. shares, of which
100,000 were taken up by a group of brokers
at Is., less brokerage. The vendors,
promoters and brokers took 40.000 paids, and
they are to get a further 10,000 bonus shares,
making a total of £25,000. There are 50.000
shares in reserve, over which the brokers
have an option at par for a fixed period.
* * * *
M. R. Freney, the discoverer of Freney’s,
Kimberley district (W.A.), is to prospect for
petroleum in the Lake Frome district (S.A.)
and treat the natural gas issuing from several
artesian bores with field plants. Three
geologists from three separate State Mines
Departments will go with the party. The
expedition will be fully equipped to carry
out a geological survey and to test the
natural gas on the spot.
# * * *
A small syndicate in S.A. is going to pros-
pect for mineral wealth in Lakes Torrens arid
Eyre, which lie below sea-level in the heart
of the continent. Upton, a visiting engineer,
is the moving spirit, and quotes the example
of the Dead Sea, near Jerusalem, which yields
unlimited potash, worth over £5 a ton in
the world’s markets.
* * * *
The four Austral Malay subsidiaries in
operation did fairly well for the first
month of the year, though not as well as
for the third quarter of 1928, when some of
the shows, notably Kampong, were getting
fine recoveries. Kampong, with only one
dredge at work in January, got 32 tons from
40,300 yards; average, 1.901 b. The previous
quarter’s average, with again only one
dredge at work in December, was .9Glb. For
1928 Kampong. recovered a trifle over 632
tons, averaging 52.66 tons. Cost for Janu-
ary, 9.9 d. Asam also faded a little last
month, getting only 19| tons from 120,090
yards; averaging .341 b., a drop from the
.491 b. of the previous quarter. Costs for
January, 3.6d.' The return for the past year
was 366 tons ; average, 30.50 tons per month.
Ulu Yam, with 32 tons for January, aver-
aged .621 b., an advance on the .471 b. of the
last quarter of 11)28. The dredge will be
hung up for a fortnight during February for
adjustments. January’s costs, 4.4 d. Total
recovery for the previous year, 21)3 tons,
equal to 24.44 tons per month. Thabawleik.
which lost 127 hours last month, improved
with 29 tons from 40,500 yards, but is ex-
pected to do much better soon. January
average, 1.601 b.; for last quarter of 1928,
1.471 b. January’s costs reached the high
figure of 17.5 d., due largely to the stoppage.
Thabawleik recovered 414 tons for 1928. or
34.50 tons per month. The group of four
mines thus produced 1705 tons for the year’s
work—a useful swag, even with tin at pre-
sent prices.


MAROONED.
“Dissatisfied with an award of the Federal Arbitration Court, and failing to get it altered, Australian timber-workers have gone out on strike. Thus far no attempt
has been made by the Commonwealth or any other Government to uphold the authority of the Arbitration Judge.”
Poverty
Point
“Valpo”: One talking-picture outfit
struggled along manfully for years under
the name of “The Chronomegaphone.” This
was a French, invention, and sound ampli-
fication was secured by means of compressed
air. Originally imported by both Spencer
and West, the results for that time were
considered rather good. It was, however,
left to that keen, honest Australian show-
man J. T. Mclntyre to get really astonish-
ing results. He combined two of the
machines, and thus got plenty of power for
the amplifier. For years Mclntyre toured
the country towns with his pet “Chrono,”
and nursed it like a baby.
“Salambo”: The first Australasian talkie
is likely to be the Maori movie “Taranga.”
For this purpose Alfred Hill’s Maori songs
and records have been forwarded to U.S.A.
“Yelnats”: The talkies heard by “Bril-
liant Deeps” at Charters Towers in 1910
(B. 23/l/’29) were produced by the Gau-
mont Chronomegaphone. which Birch and
Carroll took through Bananaland at that
time. The apparatus included a special
projector, which was synchronised with a
large phonograph behind the screen. Six
or seven years later the same firm exhibited
the Edison Kinetophone, which differed from
the Chrono. in not requiring a special pro-
jector and in using cylindrical records. In
addition to the usual songs, choruses, etc.,
a playlet was presented, covering three re-
cords, short interludes of action in which
no speaking was required enabling the
change of records to be made. Synchronism
was good, but voice reproduction only fair,
an alleged “discreet cough” in one scene
sounding more like a severe burst of radio
static.
“The Macann”: A real obstacle in the way
of the talkies is the difficulty of reproducing
the voices of women and children in a' manner
that isn’t either irritating or ridiculous. Any-
one who hasn’t heard the talkies has only to
tune in to Madame de Shrill conducting the
women’s wireless hour to get the effect. Chil-
dren’s voices are even worse. Between the
two of them on the talkies they ought to
double the percentage of bachelors in the next
few years.
“American”: Ivy Scott, old Australian
stage favorite, is now one of the most popular
radio artists in America. A few months ago
she appeared delightfully as Molly Seamore
in a condensed version of “The Geisha”
that was broadcast throughout the U.S.A.
I also have heard Ethel Walker, billed as
a “former Williamson Comic Opera Co.
prima donna,” singing Yum Yum, Josephine
and kindred rOles with De Wolf Hooner’s
company. She has a lovely voice. Can any-
one tell me anything of her career here?
“Wood’s Green” (Lond.) • The great suc-
cess made at Covent Garden last season by
Eva Turner lias turned the board’s atten-
tion to Florence Austral. But they were
too late to secure her for the Wagnerian
cycles with which the next season will open.
At that time she will be engaged at the Cin-
cinnati Festival, where she made a hit once
before. However, it is on the cards that the
Covent Garden directors will put up special
performances of the “Valkyrie” so that this
very excellent Brunnhilde may be heard in
a rede which she sings better than any other
British artist.
“Jaeas”: Writing with stage memories
covering 50 years, I should say that Fred
Marshall was the most versatile actor who
ever played in Australia. His Quilp for
tragedy and his .Teamcs de la Plushe for
comedy were unsurpassable.
“C.A.8.”: Among the artists at the Royal
Opera House, Rome, for the season now in
progress, Dal Monte heads the list of
sopranos, whilst amongst the tenors are
her husband. De Nuro Lomanto, and Merli
and Minghetti, of the 1928 Williamson-
Melba Co. Borgioli, of the 1924 combina-
tion, is also on the roster. Chaliapin is
the dominating bass. The only singer of
note never seen in Australia is Martinelli,
the great tenor of the Metropolitan, New
York.
“A.G.M.”: (Lond.) : The approaching end
of “So This Is Love” at the Winter Garden
will rob the West End of one of the most
graceful figures ever seen on the London
stage. There jnay have been more beauti-
ful women than Madge Elliott, there may
have been more wonderful dancers, there
may have been more startling dressers, but
I cannot remember any such combination
of beauty, grace and style as this attractive
Australian presents in this piece. For nine
months the full-length colored poster of her-
self and Cyril Richard has adorned the
hoardings all over London.
“Demetrius”: One of the omissions that
puzzle the North Queenslander is the non-
return, even for a visit, of Gladys Moncrieff.
Melba, who made her debut as a singer while
still Nellie Armstrong, wife of a Mackay
station manager, and is still recalled as that
young matron, returns frequently. Gladys
Moncrieff w 7 as born and spent her childhood
in Bundaberg; Townsville was the scene of
her “discovery” as a singer and dancer, but
until the Moncrieff “record” began to circu-
late up there the native almost had to ask
“Who is this Moncrieff of whom so much is
heard ?”
“E.H.S.” : “Sundry Shows” has been capti-
vated by the Chinese Quartette in “Hit
the Deck.” The youngest of the girls is
Olive Ivingette, who comes from Port Fairy
(Vic.), and, after getting instruction from
Cadzow, won this minor part in her first
show. She has personality and good looks
as well as voice.
“Eromeno”: “Garrick” (B. 2/l/’29) and
the man with whom he made the bet are
both wrong. Gladys Moncrieff played first
in “Pirates of Penzance” and “Gondoliers”
in the Theatre Royal, Townsville, and the
year was 1905. Aggie Rawes, another Towns-
ville girl, now touring the Cold Country
with her husband, Syd Jones, under the
name of Gladys Raine, acted lead to both
shows, which were given by local amateurs.
Gladys attended the West End (Townsville)
State School, and it was owimy to her
master encouraging her that she went in for
singing. She competed in the first eistedd-
fod held in Townsville (1906) and won the
first-grade soprano solo with yards to spare.
She is one of many who prove the bene-
fits accruing from eisteddfodau.
“Lochinvar” : Winsloe Hall’s opera, which
set Adelaide talking when the first two per-
formances w T ere given last November, has
gone into rehearsal again to be ready for
two performances in the Prince of Wales
Theatre in March. The Conservatorium
opera class will again render the delightful
music with a slightly different cast and a
largely augmented chorus. One of the big
firms will send over one of its producers
to see what it is worth from the commercial
theatre point of view. Mrs. Lavington Bony-
thon has taken over the organising of the
front of the house, and Madame Delmar Hall,
the wife of the composer, will see to affairs
behind the scenes, with Frank Johnston as
producer. Winsloe Hall will conduct. Net
proceeds will be divided between charities.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: Vera Spaull, who has
received a special call from Beppie de Vries
to join her in America, started her stage
career as an infant in panto, had a part
in “The Blue Bird,” and then became Miss
Bobbie in the Sydney Palace performance
of Ethel Turner’s “Seven Little Austra-
lians.” She has developed into a clever
little comedienne, and the Dutch star took
such a fancy to her that she taught her her
own language, probably having an idea of
making her the first Australian to be intro-
duced to the Dutch public. Phyllis Nichol-
son is another to bid good-bye to Australia;
she goes with Basil Radford, Reginald
Dandy and Wylie Watson to join Harriet
Bennet in ’Frisco. Harriet is opening there
in “The Wishing Well.”
“Plamfat”: Kate Howarde has ambitions
to produce plays of a higher standard than
“ ’Possum Paddock,” although that has made
her a lot of money. The Firm produced “The
Limit” at the Sydney Palace, and she has
another, “Common Humanity,” which Mos-
covitch wished to produce and J.C.W. is
likely to put on. It was playwriting which
brought the lady into the business years ago
when she was a girl of 17.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: The proprietors of the
Arcadia Theatre, in Pitt-street, Sydney, have
a sign up that they are prepared to remodel
to suit tenants. Built about 45 years ago,
it was here that Mel B. Spun* and Snazelle,
showed; and several lecturers used it. Of
late it has been chiefly the home of disaster.
“L.H.P.”: I first saw Eardley Turner sup-
porting Miss Fortescue at the Novelty
Theatre. London, in Bob Buchanan’s “Blue
Bells of Scotland,” and that was in 1887.
His Sergeant Mulligan, the Irish Highlander,
was a natural bit of humorous characterisa-
tion. Next time I saw him was in 190.8 as
Beau Nash in “Beaucaire” in Sydney. Pity
we never had him as Falstaff or Sir Toby
Belch, two roles he made famous in Tree’s
touring troupe in the U.lv.
“C. 8.”: By a curious coincidence some
of the leading performers in “Victory,” that
play in which every character is a wan-
derer on the face of the earth, were picked
up by Margaret Bannerman by the purest
accident. Gerald Kirby, who does the island-
pilgrim Heyst. met Miss Bannerman in
Maoriland while on a trip from Tahiti,
where he went a year ago to get the atmo-
sphere for a play. Kirby is no stranger to
Australia, having made his first appearance
with Julius Knight in “The Lion and the
Mouse.” Yolande Noble, who takes the role
of Madame Zangiacomo, was on a health
trip from England. She is a sister-in-law
of singer Peter Dawson.
“Hamfat”: The Melba-Williamson co. is
not the only one to leave a string of its
members in Australia; Franco Izal, of the
Gonsalez combination, also considers this
country too good to leave, and is going to
make Sydney his home. Izal sang Rigoletto
at one time to Galli-Curci’s Gilda, and wa
the Tonio of a production of “Pagliacci” in
which the Canio was Caruso.
STIRRED MEMORIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Whispers of dancing feet,
Rustle of silken gowns,
Chime softly in the beat
Of music that swells and drowns
Voices of mundane things
That jar on the tired brain;
Life is a-dance and flings
Its laugh in the teeth of pain.
You in a garden sweet
And cool with the recent rains.
I see with heart a-beat
The love in your eyes again.
You in a garden sweet,
Where fingers of light flung out
Touch not this safe retreat.
Away from the merry rout.
With laughter and dancing mirth,
Arms twining and heart to heart,
We make our own sweet earth.
And our melody apart.
Into what dreams I’ve strayed,
Here in my room alone,
Led by soft music played
On an old gramophone!
N.s.w.
HAMER.


w
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD.
Total Assets exceed . £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.
(1)
<2>
Because o, Annua, Bonuses to ™e y (3) «£» '“•
I; A--SS - “3>. no* deduction 6 frodt^Ucy^r’blmuseA^ 1 * Seduction nLe £ W„n p»4 or bonuses.
rn In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
pi?'R<anNALi ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost eveiy contingency.
( NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men c/ integrity. BRUCE gMITH> Qeneral Manasrer
H. E. BIDEN. Secretary. ’
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hf,k Majesty’s “Hit the Deck”
Critekion “The Patsy”
Royai. “The Wrecker”
Palace “New Brooms’’
Tivoli Vaudeville
MFI.BOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “The Desert Song”
Royal “Victory”
Kino’s “The Flying Squad”
New Comedy “Pigs”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
“New Brooms,” presented by E. J. Car-
roll at Sydney Palace on Saturday, is a
comedy almost entirely in the American
language, if one excepts Compton Coutts's
impersonation of a clergyman of the “Private
Secretary” vintage. The plot is as attenu-
ated as Sydney milk in drought time, and
there is none of the clever characterisation
which made “The Family Upstairs” so attrac-
tive. It gives the players little opportunity
for getting out of the rut, if one excepts
the part of Thomas Bates as played by
Wyeriey Birch. Even that doesn’t climb
very far off the beaten track, for Thomas is
a type made familiar by “(Jrumpy” and a
dozen other plays featuring saturnine and
liverish old gentlemen to whom all the good
gags arc allotted.
Mr. Thomas Bates, senior, owns a broom-
factory, though one would think that
for a 100 p.c. American in these days
of vacuum cleaners. lie has all the in-
gratiating propensities of his kind, and
when his son, Thomas Bates, suggests he
could run the broom show better than his
cantankerous poppa, the old man hurls the
job at him in defiance, and departs for a
12 months’ tour of Yurrup, taking with him
Leona Hogarth, who is the poor but lovely
secretary-housekeeper to an entourage which
seems to use the drawing-room as the oflice
for the broom-factory. Young Thomas is
supposed to have made a poor job of the
broom-factory, though we have only his own
say to prove it. When poppa returns,
Bates seCundm promptly unloads his bur-
den on the old gentleman’s shoulders again,
to the usual “I told you so” accompaniment.
The parent, after some wearisome platitu-
dinising, retires conveniently to permit his
son and Leona Hogarth to fall into a clinch.
Returning at the correct moment, the old
gentleman remarks, rather unnecessarily,
that he has lost his private secretary. All
the same, this writer has a suspicion that
he is the sort of old hunk to keep her on
the job without salary after she lias married
his son.
The play is by Frank Craven, who
has employed 13 characters, half of whom
The “Chinese ” Quartet, singing brightly in “Hit the Deck ” at Sydney Majesty’s.
could have been dispensed with. Leonard
Doyle gave a capital rendering of a color-
less part as old Bates’s son. As Bates
himself Wyerley Birch was restrained and
effective in the only piece of characterisa-
tion in the play. Leona Hogarth was an
attractive Geraldine Marsh, even if her
accent did occasionally curdle the blood of
her hearers; and Compton Coutts, Ethel
Saker and others of the large cast were at
least tradesmen in the parts allotted to them.
* * ¥
“The Wrecker,” which arrived at Syd-
ney’s Royal on Saturday night, is not, as
its producer, Clayton Greene, informed the
audience at the close of the performance, a
play to be judged on its literary merits.
The construction of the plot is haphazard
and in many parts illogical, the dialogue
is the antithesis of sparkling, the attempts
at humor are machine-made, and the love
interest is plastered on to the main theme
so clumsily that the principals—Josephine
Wilson and Clayton Greene —were unable
to infuse any life into it.
Yet the melodrama has its points. The
seeker after sensation gets his money's
worth. A murder and a train smash in the
first act; a mysterious masked man terri-
fying the heroine in a dark room in the
second; chloroforming of a signalman and
a detective, so that the Wrecker may shift
the points, followed by the foiling of his
foul design by hero and heroine—all this
in act three. And in act four the un-
masking of the maniac who caused all the
bother.
The stage setting is excellent. It's pro-
bably all wrong technically—the playwright
knows so little of railway management and
business practice that he places the man-
aging director, the assistant manager and
the traffic manager of the railroad in a
single office apartment, with two desks at
the disposal of the three of them —but it
looks all right if one isn’t pcrnicketty. At
any rate, the snorts of locomotives off
stage and the thundering past of a fast
express are convincingly imitated, and the
scene inside the signal-box looks very
realistic.
There isn’t much scope for acting, and
Clayton Greene and Miss Wilson merely
walked through their parts on Saturday
night. More substantial in their charac-
terisations are Arthur Young as a peppery
old traffic manager, a model of efficiency:
Frank Morrison as an ancient retainer of
the railroad. Victor Fitzlierbert as a detec-
tive, and Charles Stone as a villain. The
supporting feminine members of the cast
haven’t much chance to display ability, but
the two typists, played by Nellie Dennis
and Ivy Sparrow, are sufficiently true to
type to give the very dull first half of the
opening scene a little vitality.
* # *
Though the main conundrum —the iden-
tity of the Wrecker —is cleared up there
are a number of minor points that aren’t,
unless it is charitably assumed that any-
thing and everything can be explained by
the one man’s craziness. Incidentally, the
form his craziness takes isn’t at all con-
sistent with his character, nor with the pur-
poses which, in his explanatory speech, he
says he had in view. Inexplicable, too. is
the process by which the Wrecker, who
hadn’t been in the signal-box. was able to
asphyxiate a detective by sending poison gas
fumes through a small stove in the box.
The wild motor ride of the hero and heroine
to save the Rainbow express by visiting a
remote signal-box, to which they had been
invited by the Wrecker himself, is hardly
credible in view of the fact that the warn-
ing had been received in ample time to put
the locality under police supervision. Equally
obscure is the part the hero and heroine —
she's from Scotland Yard —are supposed to
play in tracking down the miscreant, since,
with the exception of their wild night ride,
they spend their time half-heartedlv spoon-
ing’. One begins to see why it is called a
mystery play.
* * *
“Smile-stones.” the revue which opened at
Sydney’s Grand Opera House on Saturday
night, takes its name from a dance number,
“The Swing of the Pendulum,” which under-
takes to portray the evolution of the rhythmic
art from prehistoric times down tp I9t>o.
Historical facts about the earliest forms of
dancing are lacking, and the Bible is silent
as to the steps employed by such eminent
performers as David and Salome, but revue
producers are nothing if not courageous, and
the number is quite entertaining—especially
the futuristic portion. A ballet under the
direction of Arline Paterson gives evidence
of good training;
there is a jazz
band led by Lyn
Christie that adds
part singing to its
many accomplish-
ments, and tin l
usual sprinkling of
vaudeville numbers
and playlets. Of
its class, a bright
a n d attractive
show.
* *
Leaders on the
Sydney Tivoli bill
last week were Sid
Roy’s l.vricals. an
English jazz band
of f.a.q. ability anti
versatility. It was
assisted in its
strenuous task by
Beryl Evatts, a
vivacious and ener-
getic dancer. Jazz-
and-ukulele w a s
also provided by
Murray Parker,
who lias a better
jazz accent than
any of the English-
men, and Ashton
.1 ar r y blo o d -
curdled in a sketch
laid in San Fran-
cisco’s Chinatown.
Arthur Aldridge, a
baritone with a
fruity voice, de-
claimed “The Ban-
dole-e-e-ero” with
50-h.p. d ramatic
power; the Fallow
twins capered pret-
tily, and Sammy
Shields told Scot-
tish stories and
sang American jazz to the accompaniment of
a banjo. Flo Lewis, an American comic
lady, who could make a dyspeptic cat guffaw,
had a final appearance.
* ¥ ¥
At Sydney Ilis Majesty’s “Hit the Deck"
continues to hold the boards ; “The Patsy”
is nearing the end of a six months’ run at
the Criterion, and “Good News” is nearing
its last lap at the St. James. All have been
doing good business despite the heavy rains.
* * *
Mo and his Merrymakers supplied the
usual medley of vaudeville and sketch work
at Fullers’ on Saturday. His best effort in
the sketches was based on an old Bulletin
joke, wherein a dying pawnbroker, having
mustered his family for final instructions,
asks with considerable asperity “Who’s
mindin’ der shop, den?” Sadie -Gale was
an admirable foil to the star, while among
newcomers not calling vociferously for brick-
bats were May Daly, a pleasant soubrette;
Cyril James, a vocalist of considerable merit;
and Stan Cartnell, a dancing comedian.
* ¥ *
“Rio Rita” celebrated her 300th Austra-
lian birthday at Melbourne Princess last
week. The creature carries her age well and
even the most penetrating eye can detect no
signs in her of sclerosis of the arteries.
Round at the box-office the belief that she
will add another century to her score is
recited as often as the Athanasian Creed is
in Anglican churches, and a lot more fer-
vently.
The Canadian Cowboy band is cracking
whips, jokes and chestnuts at Melb. Tivoli.
They give a wild and romantic version of
life in the great Outback of Canada, which
satisfies even those who darkly suspect that
the Canadian Never Never isn’t very much
more romantic at bottom than the Austra-
lian Nowhere Nowdiere.
* * *
“Beauty and the Beast” had a brief session
in its new apartments at Melb. Bijou. On
Friday the galaxy of talent will dismiss,
immediately re-form, and appear on Saturday
as the Bert Ray Revue Co.
# ¥ #
Frank Neil returns to his old stamping
ground, the Palace, Melbourne, on Saturday.
His opening number will be “Hold Baby.”
The nature of Mr. Neil’s goods is so well
known to his patrons that if he called the
piece “Othello” or “The Last Days of Pom-
peii,” it would make no difference.
* * *
Saturday and the King’s, Melbourne, will
see Leon Gordon in “The Flying Squad,”
a brand new mystery play by Edgar Wal-
lace, probably dictated by that prolific play-
wright while be was shaving. One of the
biggest thrills of “The Flying Squad” will
be the splash of a human body hurled into
a river.
* * *
Melbourne is shortly to see “This Tear of
Grace.” the revue for which Noel Coward
wrote book, lyrics and music. Hailed in
London as something entirely new in that
IVY SPARROW, helping “The Wrecker” to thrill Sydney Royal
crowds.
hackneyed branch of art, it ran from March
to December last year. The English com-
edienne Maisie Gay is being imported by
the Firm to do the star part. Maisie's theat-
rical history goes back to 1908, when she
was in the chorus of “The Cherry Girl.”
Later she was with George Edwardes.
* * X
The talkies did one thing in Melbourne
—.they stirred a movie audience out of its
accustomed calm into noisy demonstrations.
The spectacle of Signor Mussolini at the
Auditorium enunciating the sublime truths
of Fascism without contradiction goaded
some Italians in the audience to frenzy.
They got up and started arguing excitedly
with him. II Duce, like Henry Parkes,
refused to be drawn into an idle contro-
versy, and didn’t even stop to order the
administration of castor-oil to his inter-
.iectors. So the angry ones started to argue
with their neighbors, and finally all repaired
outside and the discussion spread oyer
Collins-street. There were no casualties.
That’s one of the remarkable things about
arguments between Mediterranean people.
They look as if they are bound to end in
the lock-up and they usually end in a wine-
shop.
x x x
“Bought and Paid For,” an old favorite,
was the Nellie Bramley Co.’s offering at
Brisbane lloyal. Kyrle McAlister, as a
drunken millionaire, plays his part con-
vincingly. Nellie Bramley is the unhappy
wife, and Fanny Blaine, as her sister, has a
trying time as the wife of James Gillies
(George Hewlett). Bebe Scott and Mc-
Gowan, although given minor parts, take
their place in the picture.
“Spokeshave”: Curious how placidly the
normally tender-minded can view things on
the stage. There is a vaudeville turn in
which a stout foreigner and his “son” take
part. The “son” is really his “daughter,
and she is possibly not even that. Anyhow,
whether she is related to her fat employer
or not, she is got up like a boy, no doubt
to make the spectacle a little less repellent.
The child’s joints are rigid as steel. This
enables her large partner to pick her up by
wrist, ankle or even fingers and hold her
out at right angles or in any other position
as if she was made of sticks. On the occa-
sion 'when I saw it, the performance con-
cluded with a touching picture of domestic
felicity, the child kissing her “father so
fervently as to draw from the woman next
to me the exclamation, “The little darling!


RIN-TIN-TIN
ẁ
the
famous
Screen
Actor
is fed
exclusively
Ken-T -Ration
THE DOG FOOD SUPREME
FREE —Sample Tin sent to any address
in the Commonwealth.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from
W. C. SCHWAB, P. 0. Box 1821, Melbourne
STONEWALL”
SHOES for MEN
Write Desk H for Catalogue
Stonewall
Watertight Two-piece Boot
Bl7.—The original bark-
tanned, oiled, grained
leather; also tan chrome
leather. Four dec., stitched
and screwed soles. Special
design; two-piece vamp.
Postage, l/-j Interstate, 1/8.
JACKSON'S C?
"STONEWALL*’ STORES
Cnr Pitt £ Goulburn S u Sudneu
52MacleaySt
The Company will transfer its
business to the new Private Hotel
in Greenknowe Avenue, Potts
Point, in March, 1929, where it
will feature Central Heating,
Private Baths and Telephones to
each room.
Unsurpassed Harbor Views,
Inclusive Tariff from £5/5/-
per week, or £ I / I /- per day.
Bed and Breakfast from
£4/4/- per week, or 16/-
per day.
For appointment to view ’phone
F2161 (4 lines). Telegraphic
Address: Fifmac, Sydney.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Tozcr”: Please inform “Tuppence” (B.
23/l/’29) that Crooked Mick is not dead yet.
He has been in our district doing a little
contract work, sinking wells. The only tools
he uses are a dessert-fork and a teaspoon,
removing the soil with his hands. Having
got a bit older since “Tuppence” saw him
last he can only manage three wells (15ft.
deep) a week now.
* * * *
“Detonator”: During last possum-murder
season in Queensland three Frenchmen blew
into my office for licenses. Two were deserters
from a ship and the other had been cotton-
picking at Thangool. They wanted to go
SILLY ASS!
“Had a smash, old man?”
“Oh no, just testing my five-guinea repairing course.”
west, but I suggested Central Districts as
more suitable, and I asked the embryo cotton
king whether he’d seen any possums up that
way. He hesitated and was lost. “Please
excuse,” quoth he, “ze possums—ees he ze
gross bird or zee petite bird; yes?” As-
tounded at his ignorance of our native fauna,
one of his mqtes sneered; “You are ze big
imbecile! Ze possums she is not ze bird,
no! Zey is what ze Australien call pussy—
gone savage!” Thereupon I advised the
poilus to visit the Museum and have a good
look at stuffed specimens before going on
the marsupial warpath.
* * * *
“Pick”: When a very dead and over-ripe
whale with a harpoon in his back drifted
in to the sands at Wallaga Lake (N.S.W.
South Coast), whites gave the spot wide
room, but the abo. residents of the mission
station displayed more hardihood. Shoving
through the perfume that clogged the atmo-
sphere, women, children and ancients spaded
off the blubber and on sheets of galvanised
iron drained oil melted from the humming
junks by the heat of the sun. This went on
for weeks. The young bucks meanwhile
scoured the country for casks and oil-drums.
When a storm carried the remains away to
deep water £5B worth of oil had been sal-
vaged and stored, and camp-fire euchre-money
had been provided for months.
* * * *
“Manar”: The proverbially-expressed idea
that the hare suffers from insanity at a cer-
tain period of the year may have originated
from the animal’s habit of dancing in the
moonlight. Once, while lying in ambush for
a dingo, I saw a large hare emerge from
bushes near by and start to cross a patch
of bright moonlight. It had got lmlf-way
across when apparently a craze for dancing
overtook it, and it suddenly stopped and
stood up on its hind legs. For dearly five
minutes it wheeled and pirouetted and
bobbed. Then it stopped just as suddenly
as it had started, and a second later vanished
into some grass. I have also heard of
hares dancing in tin* bright glow from the
headlights of a stationary motor-car.
* * * *
“R.X.8.”: “Diptin’s” crab that inhabited
a shell and grew no armor (B. 23/l/’2O)
was behaving in a perfectly natural manner.
He was a hermit crab, one of the genus
Payurue. These creatures have to live in
disused mollusc shells, because Nature re-
fuses to supply them with armor for their
abdomens. The youngsters start with peri-
winkle shells, and promote themselves to
something larger as they grow. One nipper
is developed in great disproportion to the
other, and when a crab is in his shell he
folds the large nipper over the opening and
is then quite safe and snug. When a crab
is looking for a new home he celebrates
the occasion by running about trying to
catch his own tail, turning somersaults, and
waving his large nipper to passing boats.
Then he selects a shell, holds it between his
feet as he lies on his back, and twirls it
around at a terrific speed. When the rate
of the spin is satisfactory, he gives the spin-
ning shell a clout with his large nipper,
and sends it into the water with a tremen-
dous splash. That shell is discarded. Then
the whole performance is started over again,
and the process of selecting and testing may
last all day. At last a suitable shell is
found, and this is held daintily between the
feet as the crab lies on his back, and is
stroked and fondled with the big nipper.
Then the crab elevates his tail, and begins
to fit the shell on to his abdomen. He may
find it such a nice fit that he crawls straight
in, but ho usually suspends operations while
he performs a few more somersaults and
waves a few farewells to his friends.
NOT EVEN IN THE LAST EXTREMITY.
TONAL McTAVISH: “What, Mr. Brown, do you eat the stones an’ the skins?"
REV. THOMAS BROWN: “Yes — oh, yes!”
McTAVISH: “Mon, Ah never do thaat, not even when Ah buy them!”
“Trevdee” : Explain this, you fish experts.
At Riddell (Vic.) a garden lake was drained
three years ago and was left dry for 12
months. No fish were placed in the water
after re-filling, yet the lake is now full of
carp, perch and tench.
Hi H : H*
“Bad Australian” : I don’t know whether
the pain caused by the sting of a bullrout
persists until the tide turns, but I do know
that it does not continue until the sun goes
down (B. 16/l/’29). Wading to retrieve a
couple of wood ducks
in the Burnett, near
Walla .Crossing (Q.).
I trod on a particu-
larly venomous speci-
men. The poison took
effect inside a minute,
and by the time I
reached my cam p,
about a quarter of a
mile away, I wa3
sweating with agony.
Although I rubbed my
foot with ammonia
and drank about two-
thirds of a bottle of
Ilcnnessy’s, I was
nearly frantic for
about two hours, after
which the pain gradu-
ally abated, and by
mid-day I began to
feel that life was, per-
haps, worth living,
after all. I have
sampled the sting of a
scorpion, but the pain
was mild in compari-
son with that caused
by the bullrout. The
effect of the bullrout’s
sting lasted for a few days only, but the
scorpion’s little contribution kept me in camp
for three weeks.
* * * *
“Oran”: Picnicking on the upper shores
of Auckland Harbor (M.L.) one moonlight
night we experienced something of the
qualms that must have beset Bishop Ilatto.
All through supper the squeaking of myriads
of rats from the bush fringing the fore-
shore intrigued us, and as each successive
dinghy load left for the launch the noise
became louder, and the rodents bolder. We
closed in towards the blazing logs for safety,
and in the darkness behind us thousands of
rats raced and squeaked and fought. The
last three men left on the beach found them-
selves surrounded by rats which leapt ovei
their legs, nibbled their lingers, and began
to close in in battalions. The fire went
out, and when the dinghy came back for
the last load it found three scared pic-
nickers standing knee-deep in water while
on the sands a seething mass of rats of
every size, age and color gnashed their teeth
with rage.
* * * *
“Mile. D’lvott”: The little known and
secluded Mt. Lofty Golf Club’s links lie in
a valley in the mountains a few miles from
Adelaide, where in the past a generous
40-inch rainfall has kept the fairways soft
and green all the year. This summer, how-
ever*, a long dry spell made it necessary
to set the sprinklers going on the fairways,
to the great delight of the laughing jacks,
who came in dozens to enjoy the shower-
baths so kindly provided by the green-
keepers. Having bathed, the jacks fly up on
to the revolving sprinkler arms, and, with
solemn faces, go round and round until
their feathers dry.
* « *■ *
“Ledraw”: I wonder how many people
who blow the froth off beer know that it is
produced from the bark of the Queensland pink
tamarind-tree, which is found in the Cairns
district. Abos. wanting fish used to collect
the bark, put it in a dilly-bag, swish it about
the surface of a waterhole, and then collect
the stupefied fish. Before the war, brewers
used the bark of the South American soap-
tree.
* * # 4t
“Nakhoda”: The biggest fraud amongst
arboreal water conservers (B. 12/12/’2B)
is the travellers’-palm ( Ravenala madagas-
cariensis). This magnificent tree grows to
30 or 40 feet, throwing out its 15ft. fronds
in the perfect semblance of a gigantic fan.
It gets its name from its supposed ability
to deliver healing streams to the thirsty wan-
derer in the, desert. The trouble is that it
only flourishes in humid spots like Singapore,
and though the storage capacity of its tanks
(the receptacles at the sheathing bases of the
stalks) is admittedly large, it depends on the
rainfall to fill them. Also the water is always
rendered putrid by insects and stagnation.
(Continued on next page.)
YARDING THE BRUMBIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Through the Myall Scrub, by the Crow’s
Nest track,
But not as the crows may go,
The brumbies dash as the stockwhips crack
Mid the hills of Taromeo.
Hard with them Rocket, the stockhorse, flies
Through the tangle of green belar;
His ears laid back as he tops the rise
To the swing of the foam-flecked bar.
His rider’s torn by the brush and briar,
His raiment is tattered, too,
As he clears the creeks in his wild desire
With the leap of a kangaroo.
To right and left his fellows fly
O’er gullies and logs and streams;
As lightning-streaks on a clouded sky
The shoe on each swift hoof gleams.
By the pine and bramble the brumjncs dash
With a swift and a sweeping stride,
Whilst ever beside them the stirrups clash
To the roar of the plaited hide.
In vain they seek from the yard to wheel,
In vain to regain the glen;
The station horses are true as steel
To the call of the station men.
The stockwhips fall with a thunderous crack.
Awhile there’s a deafening din;
Then the gates are closed, and the reins fall
slack....
The nags from the wilds are in.
N.S.'W.
E. S. SURENSON.


Despair
In the ranks of the rabbit
results in
Delight
among the men who get the
skins if the consignment is
sent to Winchcombe Carson
for sale. They are specialists
t
m
.
in the sale of all classes of skins.
They sell them on commission only, never buying nor
dealing. Top market prices for skins are their
constant aim.
Consign Rabbit, Fox and all other Skins to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
Winchcombe House, or 99-101 Eagle St.,
Bridge St., Sydney, Brisbane.
ẃ
Jhe purest tobacco only,
Wrapped in snow-white
paper without any trimmings
has made ((C Che Greys” the
best Virginia Cigarette.
It's the Vobacco that matters
GREYS
io for gd. CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
MAJOR DRAPKIN <£ CO. Branch of the United Kingdom Tobacco Co. Ltd. [NSG9
PEAPES
Clothe men AND their sons.
It is by QUALITY that Peapes have
held the high regard of men through-
out the Commonwealth since 1866,
nothing less than the most reliable
quality ever finding place amongst
their well-varied stocks.
Yet at Peapes’ this QUALITY is
always available at a bedrock price
because Peapes do not conduct “sales”
and therefore have to make no allow-
ance, when pricing goods, for periodi-
cal “reductions.”
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
“Country Bed”: Apropos “Pick’s” white-
ant aprons (B. 5/12/’2B) . The neatest and
most effective idea for counteracting the
depredations of termites that I have ever
seen was used in the building of a Mallee
school. In place of the ordinary red-gum
building blocks, six-inch earthenware pipes
filled with concrete were used, each being
capped with a small, circular concave apron
of galvanised iron. In damp, muggy weather
you could almost hear the millions of ter-
mites as they advanced on the tempting
weatherboard structure, champing their jaws
with rage when they were foiled by the
double obstruction.
ONE OF THE BIG FOUR.
TOURIST: “Now, just stand like that.”
KING BILY: “What you gib it?”
TOURIST: “I’ll give you sixpence.”
KING BILLY: “No good to me; you go and gib it poor white pheller.”
“Nitric”: A huge flat fish weighing over
one and a half ton was recently captured at
Maloolabah, near Noosa (Q.). The monster
is a variety of sunfish not known to the
fishermen of the districts, nor to Heber
Longman, director of the Queensland
Museum. The mouth of the fish was as small
as a man’s hand and its fins as large as a
ray’s, but it was not so active as a ray. A
dangerous looking tail-spike strikes another
analogy with the stingrays, which have been
captured up to a ton weight on Queensland
shores.
* * * *
“Gelt” : Aboard a schooner the other day
the Chinese engineer developed blackwater
fever. He was a good engineer, and we did
our best for him, but he showed no sign of
improvement. Two days later we anchored
off a Chinese trader’s station, and senr word
ashore to him of his countryman's condition.
Hop Wo came immediately, glanced at the
patient, jabbered excitably a few Celestial
syllables, and was off, returning in half an
hour or so with a queer-looking soup, which
the patient drank with gusto. Many doses
were given during the night, and next morn-
ing the engineer was sitting up and taking
notice. The soup was made of stewed pan-
dan us root, and the Chinese swear by it as
a sure cure for blackwater.
* * * *
“Eureka”: I have seen many strange
articles used for a shaving brush, from a
piece of bark to a paint brush, but for
originality I give the bun to a N.S.W. South
Coast bullock-driver who plies between Mon-
aro and the port of Merimbula. He has evenly
clipped the tail of one of his bullocks and
bound it with a piece of string, making a
very good brush. He also told me that he
used the bullock’s eye for a mirror, but I
thought that a bit over the fence. However,
I saw him using the brush, and got an eye-
ful of soap when the bullock used the same
brush to drive a few flies away.
* * * *
“Castleton’’: Anyone who has come into
close contact with the stinging-tree of the
brush country of N.S.W. and Queensland
knows that mediseval torturers were at a
tremendous disadvantage in the practice of
their art through being denied knowledge
of the tree and its possibilities. After dodg-
ing them carefully for years, I brushed one
the other day, and now sadly number myself
amongst those who know all about it. A
bushman stripped some of the bark of the
tree and applied the inner surface to tin;
scald, and relief came in about half an hour.
The sap of the cunjevoi, which grows in the
natural habitat of the stinging-tree, is also
an excellent antidote. Without treatment
the appalling pain will last for hours.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: Just before the coming of the
Nor’-West monsoon up Torres Strait way
there is a succession of hot days, which
cause the sea water to become unpleasantly
warm. This has its effect on marine life,
and during these hot spells the islander
finds his fish ready cooked. Shoals of sar-
dines get into shallow pools and are killed
by the almost boiling water, and larger fish
also pass out. These all go into Jimmy
Susui’s larder, canoes and dinghies searching
the pools when the temperature of the water
indicates that parboiled fish is likely to be
abundant. The boys who happen to be clean-
ing their cutters in low water at the time
are the only ones who _ object; they find
it too hot to stand or swim in.
* * * *
“C.W.”: “Bouragi” (B. 23/l/’29) is un-
duly despondent over fish,in the tropics. The
experienced fisher-
man can get plenty
of sport with a rod.
Trolling from a
launch along the
outer main reef in
the early morning
before the sea gets
up all sorts of
edible fish will rise
at any type of spin-
ning bait. White
rag will do at a
pinch, and I have
seen a 50-pounder
caught on the oval
lid of a chocolate
tin. The lower
reaches of any of
the Fijian rivers
provide good sport
to users of a small
spinner or larg.
salmon fly on a
rising tide, and
quite good fly fishing
can be got in the
upper waters in
the early morning
or late afternoon.
The quaintest bit
of fly-fishing I ever
saw was in the
upper reaches of
the Rewa River.
The water was
running fairly deep
and fast over a
stretch of a mile or
so, and an. old
Fijian started at
the top of this, his
outfit being a light
six-fooc pole, a few
feet of line and a
dozen grasshoppers
stuck in his frizzy
hair. Floating
down in the water,
dap - dap - dapping
his bait ahead of
him, he would get
a fish, swim to the
bank and stick it
through the gills to
a bush. This opera-
tion he would repeat to the bottom of the
rapid, when he would walk back, collectjng
his catch as he went.
* * * *
“Boolydooli” : Carefully pushing my way
through a densf jungle of beer-fumes in the
Surry Hills (N.S.W.) way back in ’27, I
became aware that I was being followed.
My mate, who was skirmish-
ing along another track in
search of the precious life-
giving fluid which we had
lacked so long, seemed to be
lost in the impenetrable
thicket. I may say that I
never saw him again. Still
those stealthy footsteps fol-
lowed. I had been told that
from the denizens of that
region no quarter might be
expected, and I resolved to
sell my life dearly. Sinking
down in the shadow of a
garbage tin I waited. I had
not long to wait. When I
awoke in the , morning I
found that someone had con-
siderately removed my coat,
vest, trousers, boots and 2s.
94d., the night being warm.
But more than this —and let
those who decry the noble
natives who inhabit that
wild part of Australia mark
well this fact and go and
hide their diminished nuts in
an ash-barrel the beah
hotel with which I had been
smitten down reposed beside
me its contents intact.
Ever since I had that fall
from a perambulator at the
age of six months my head
has been decidedly pneu-
matic, but' even so I con-
sider that my experience proves that to
allow a native to walk behind one is
not necessarily a prelude to decease. In
my case a valuable life was saved.
* * * *
“Moo”: Everyone who has had to suffer
cows sadly has some idea of their extra-
ordinary Catholicism in the matter of diet.
A Brisbane specimen who gave up the
vaccine equivalent of the ghost lately pro-
vided something out of the common at the
post-mortem. Her stomach was pierced by
14 21in. wire-nails, and contained, in addi-
tion, 20 mangoes. Further, there were two
feet of the outer cover of a motor-cycle tyre
and two dozen capsules from beer bottles,
Yet she is described in the obituary notices
in .the local press as “a splendid milker”;
which goes to show that cows can rise on
stepping-stones of their dead—or ought-to-be-
dead—selves to higher things.
ALAS, UNTRUE!
“I heard that when you appeared in Brisbane the crowd hooted
you."
“Worse than that, laddie. There was no crowd.”
“Moe” : It might not seem feasible that a
man could die from mosquito bites, but this
happened at Madang, in New Guinea, in the
days when that unpleasant and insanitary
spot was called Wilhelmshafen. The victim,
a German, was accustomed nightly to con-
sume an inordinate quantity of beer, and one
night on his way from the hotel to his bunga-
low, about a quarter of a mile distant, he
fell into a drain and decided to stay there
for the night. During his alcoholic slumbers
clouds of mosquitoes settled on him, and as
each one injected its secretion he received
a monumental dose of this toxin. When
found in the morning his body was terribly
bloated and swollen. He was removed at
once to the hospital, where he rapidly passed
from a state of delirium into one of coma
and died about 12 hours later.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Off and on the Portuguese man-
o’-war or “bluebottle” has been making itself
a nuisance on Sydney surf beaches this
summer. In other years it has been respon-
sible for a few deaths, mostly in Queens-
land waters, and a child died of stings
received at Bondi (N.S.W.) a few seasons
ago. There are hundreds of stings in
each tentacle, and the agony a mere few of
them can inflict is intense. Wet sand as
an immediate remedy, followed by an appli-
cation of the blue bag, is the best treatment,
but chewed tobacco is pretty effective. One
day last year Bondi surf was so full of the
pests after a big storm that bathing was
impossible. Later, a good many small dead
fish were washed up on the beach; old hands
ascribed their demise to contact with the
bluebottles.
* * * *
“Sea Speck”: “Delph’s” parsley poison-
ing par (B. 9/l/’29) reminds me of a friend
of mine who was upset by bees. When a
young man he fell foul of the .business end
of a bee whilst eating a piece of honeycomb.
He immediately developed all the symptoms
of catarrh in its worst form. He was con-
fined to his bed for a week, and from then
up to the present day—and he is now well
on the shady side of 60 —he lias literally
never been able to look a bee in the face.
Honey is a deadly poison to him. Should
he chance upon a colony swarming, he falls
into a kind of fit; his eyes bulge, and his
upper lip swells to an enormous size, and
he is firmly convinced that if a bee stung
him it would cause his death. He is no
’weakling either, being a working black-
smith, and all of 12 stone in weight.
THE BATTLERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Their tents have been pitched on the high
lands and low,
By banks of the rivers and creeks;
Their camp-fires have burned in the depth of
the gorge
And high on the crown of the peaks.
There "was never a man that gave way to
despair ;
Misfortune they faced with a grin ;
Eternal the courage and hope in the breasts
Of old diggers who never gave in.
Thoy tunnelled the ranges and trenched the
low hills,
Those stalwarts who headed the rush
Wherever was “dust” for the cradle to win
Or stone for the dolly to crush.
Undaunted they fossicked far out on the
fringe,
With “finds” few and further apart;
The first man to come and the last man to
go
Was the battler who never lost heart.
Where old towns lie dead by the shaft-
mouths agape
And mullock heaps wait till the last,
There’s always one left who is seeking a
lead
That was known to be missed in the past.
He follows old drives that are slimy and
dank,
And winzes with foul air a-reek,
Where overhead timber is twisted and bent
And sill-logs are rotten and weak.
You’ll find lonely men ever working a show
(He may be a Swede or a Dane)
Where mulga scrub spreads like a mantle of
drab
Over all till it fringes the plain.
Year in and year out, through good seasons
and drought,
Ever dreaming of fortunes they’ll win,
They’re digging their graves on some rock-
crested hill,
Those battlers who never give in.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


World famous for
their reliability
J? N iCAPST/5j N c
k^cc^sa
-aoJ Pstan cam&S&W
-APSTXH . r,
wp
"AN
: CAPSTA
r*« oSSST**
N N cf/® C
~c « tan c F.
„ capstan ohs
AN
AN
PiD
W
"csS“^
AN
AN
itA
fADCT •*
?AN^
*N caKtl*
» r ctis%T
: . CAPSTa ki W ~
m
ln G4 So£ st^ n c»^s
Hi*'
tk
N
ft*
' c£®»
M
N
pv
Tv.
<K N ca^&:
fZiSßsrLiSumt
l^“css®s?fcsj
AP^- S A AN • CAJsS^-iSfitoS
AN
S"”;®!; o'S© 1
F&ssßffiaawi
LPc-fli™ •• CABWi® t .i.W®tvi
•••';,
N
if
«n! 'cggTAN : CA C^®«
r 5„ APST AN
oSaassHi css&si
•:>;
*N ; capct Jk AN • CAPSTA
»«"iS»«a
N
’ • capstan n a CAp srm^P^T^
cA c A?;r cH«fe
&L i b»^^T
N
N
N
\
<*
VdpJ&STA
tsPi p STAK
**3s? V
H'
A
£stan
*>m!
Pv
TV
<N3V*<
o s~
navy cut
CIGARETTES


WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most-up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydney!
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
sdf
Promptness—The first essential of Assurance.
P. & C. take pride in acting quickly. Every claim has immediate
attention. This is only one of the many advantages that com-
mend P. & C. Assurance to the man on the land. Policies car-
ried on during times of stress —money set aside each year for loans to
members. P. & C. is linked up with the most influential Co-operative
bodies, and clients' interests are closely guarded. Here are plain
facts for commonsense men —P. & C. Assurance is the kind you need
—investigate the policies right away. Send for literature.
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Man. Director: H. Fell
PRODUCERS V CITIZENS
==_ CO OPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA
Hlb 114- -120 CASTLE RE AQH ST. SYDNEY
USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Addiess:
“Usherotel, Sydney.’*
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
AUTUMN CROPS.
“Bullswool”: Anyone having ground ready
to sow will want to be off the mark quickly
when the autumn rains come, so as to catch
the warmth of the soil that will aid rapid
germination.
Swede turnips and field turnips are
comparatively easy and cheap to grow.
The former should be planted in February or
March, and the latter are safe even later.
Two to four pounds of seed, drilled in about
2ft. Gin. apart, with up to a cwt. of super,
per acre, meets most requirements. The
young swedes can be sold in bunches on the
vegetable market at payable rates, or left
to maturity and sold in bag lots. They pro-
vide excellent pig feed and also are suitable
for stock, being available at a lean time in
the winter and early spring months. Many
sorts store well if not required for immediate
use. In loose soils they attain great size,
but even in tighter ground are worth while.
In a warm climate an autumn sowing of
mangolds and sugar beet will yield a crop
of excellent pig and cattle food. Mangolds
need a fairly loose soil and constant culti-
vating to keep down weed growth, and if
too thick they should be thinned out. As to
seed, 411 b. to Gib. of mangolds and about 81b.
of sugar beet go to the acre, drilled in
rows 1 2ft. 6in. apart.
In cool climates heavy late cabbages make
fair cattle and pig feed, and are best propa-
gated in seed beds, after which they are
planted out in furrows. Well-worked soil
and a fair start are essentials.
If the soil is of good tilth and contains
sufficient moisture, mustard sown 81b. to the
acre gives quick returns. It can also be
sown in conjunction with rape. Its special
use is for lamb fattening.
For dry inland areas where fodder pro-
blems are always cropping up sheep’s burnet
stands alone. Once established and given
a reasonable spell it* can be regarded as
permanent. All classes of stock appreciate
it—sheep especially. Deep ploughing is
essential before sowing, as it is a deep rooter,
this enabling it to hold its own in droughts.
It is an all-the-year-round plant, and seed
requirements range from 91b. to 121 b. per
acre. It is a useful addition to other grasses.
One of the cheapest crops to plant and
one that yields a very high feed value is
rape, requiring about 31b. of seed to the
acre drilled and up to Gib. broadcast. It’s
one of the best fattening feeds for pigs and
stands alone in the poultry world. It is
rapidly proving its worth as sheep fodder.
It has been known to cause stomatitis, but
that only occurs when sheep are allowed to
feed on it when it -is wet and subject to aphis.
It is adaptable to most soils, matures quickly
and can be grown in autumn, winter and
early spring. With the advent of summer
the aphides common to the turnip family, to
which rape belongs, soon appear and destroy
the food value. Sheep fatten quickly on rape,
and it is a good line to top off with. It
should be fed to milking cows spar-
ingly, as it may taint the milk if fed too
freely. To liven up a paddock that
is soil-sick there is nothing like rape, and
many wheat-growers use it as a rotation crop.
Feed stock or sheep on it, then plough the
lot and let it fallow. The humus is in-
creased by the remainder of the plant and
the manure of the stock. Rape appreciates
good soil, well worked, but gives a return
even under indifferent conditions. In good
seasons two to four cuttings can be obtained
from carefully harvested areas. It is profit-
able stuff to plant if autumn rain is late.
A little super., bonedust or blood manure
may be used, according to soil condition.
Don’t sow the seed too deeply.
SUPER. DEFENDED.
“Mallee Stump”: “Hatter’s” anti-super,
campaign leaves me colfl. I have used super,
for 20 years without exhausting the land;
in fact super, has built up the soil. I have
experimented with basic slag, muriate of
potash, sulph. potash, sulph. ammonia and
super., separately and in various combina-
tions, and am satisfied that super, is all that
is required to obtain the best results. In
heavy rainfall districts where the soil is of
a poor, sour or clayey nature, and for kitchen
garden purposes, other fertilisers may be best,
but in the great wheat-growing areas —
super, every time.
BUYING A HORSE.
“Koolonga”: When you’re buying a hack
have a good look at him while he’s standing
quietly in the stable. His fore-feet should
be placed firmly and square on the ground,
but one hind foot may be rested on the toe:
a fore-foot is rested only when it is painful,
His head must have an alert appearance,
ears moving to and fro, eyes open and bright,
the skin loose and supple. The color of the
lining of the eyes and nostrils should be
salmon-pink and free from spots or dis-
charge. If lie’s got congestion a darker
red color with deep red spots will be there,
but when loss of blood has taken place it
is almost white. The color will be a dirty
yellow if he has indigestion or liver disease.
Try his pulse below the lower jaw—while
lie’s quiet. If the horse is healthy you’ll
get about 40 beats to the minute, but don’t
forget that disease doesn’t always alter
the beat, though it is bound to depress its
strength.
The temperature should be about lOOdeg.
and is taken from the anus with a clinical
thermometer. If the horse looks well but
shows a high temperature lie’s going to be ill,
Watch his flanks to see that the rise and fall
is steady and even. A double effort on the
fall shows broken wind. That rise and fall
is the count of his breathing, which should
be 15 inspirations a minute. Sounds in the
throat or lungs may mean disease in those
organs.
Look at his droppings. If he’s fit they’ll
be in balls that split on reaching the ground
and are free from slime. Tlje urine will be
thick and light yellow in color. Roll the
skin under your fingers and make sure
it’s not hide-bound or scurfy. Then walk him
ẅ
out of the stable and watch for spavin lame-
ness when he’s turning in the stall and taking
the first few steps; and see that his head
isn’t joggling up and down like a balancing-
pole to relieve any unsoundness of limb.
Get somebody to trot the horse in a straight
line to and from you (20 yards should do)
and watch his action for lameness.
SHEEP ON MIXED FARMS.
“8.R.L.”: Certain seasons of the year
bring about many transactions in sheep,
and both large and small flocks change hands
for various purposes. There are always quite
a number of small farmers who have not
previously gone in for sheep, or not to any
extent, and there are many others who con-
template giving them a trial. A word of
advice to those who are in doubt as to the
best class of sheep to keep may save regret
later on.
Sheep management comes under three
headings and any of the methods may be
adopted by the small farmer. The first is to
buy a flock of ewes and breed lambs. This
can easily be developed into a good perma-
nent business, but a lot of experience is
necessary. A sound knowledge of ewes and
lambing takes years to acquire, and a farmer
would be ill-advised to undertake such a pro-
cedure without a good knowledge of the sub-
ject. A second method is to buy ewes with
lambs at foot, wean the lambs when ready,
and sell them; then either sell the ewes for
breeding purposes or mate rams to them.
The following drop of lambs may be either
fattened or sold ast stores. The ewes can
then be shorn and fattened for sale. This
method has much to recommend it. The
third, and perhaps safest, way for those who
are not experienced in sheep matters, is to
buy store sheep and fatten. Older sheep do
not require such an expert eye as lambs,
and the knowledge gained by keeping them
will materially assist in the management of
a flock of ewes.
FENCING INSURANCE.
“G.D.P.”: Bought experience is usually
considered the best, but the price paid in
many instances is crippling. For that reason
a few do’s and don’t’s on the subject of
fencing insurance which, cost me £2OO to
pick up may be helpful.
About seven years ago I had a couple of
thousand acres of sheep country in the
Riverina on which the netted fences were
insured for £4OO. A fire swept the property
and the insurance company in Sydney sent
along its assessor to valuate damages.
The assessor arrived. He had a charming
personality and we took to him like rabbits
take to t'histleroot. He insisted on riding
the fences alone, saying he had only a few
notes to jot down; wouldn’t dream of taking
me away from my work. etc. Later,
when we were settled comfortably in the
house over a bottle of whisky, he broached
the subject of fire insurance. How singu-
larly fortunate I was to have my fences
covered, he said, and how few graziers in
the district had been so provident! Then,
digging down for his notebook, he com-
menced. “For such-and-such a line we will
allow you 20 p.c., for this one 30 p.c.,”
and so on. Eventually lie passed over a
paper for my signature, which, on perusing,
I found was a statement to the effect that
I would accept £IBO in full settlement.
“What about the netting?” I asked. “We
don’t usually take that into consideration,”
he said, “though in this case I have allowed
you a fraction. Anyway,” he continued,
“it’ll last for years yet, and it can always
be turned when it begins to go.” So I
signed, and the repairs cost me just a trifle
under £4OO.
The moral is fairly obvious. Get an esti-
mate of the cost of repairs and refuse to
accept less than that amount. If the com-
pany refuses payment, make them a written
offer that if they re-erect the damaged fence
to your satisfaction you will tender a receipt
for full settlement. If that offer is refused
and you are reasonably certain your claim is
a just one, threaten legal proceedings. One
last word — don’t over-insure. The insurance
company is liable only to the extent of the
damage you suffer, and any figure written
on the policy in excess of the real risk isn’t
worth a tinker’s dam to you. To the insur-
ance company it is worth the extra amount
of premiums you have to pay.
TOBACCO CULTIVATION.
“Bunyip”: Little tobacco cultivation, other
than experimental work, has been carried
9 n in Australia to date, though the climate
in a wide belt north and south of the Tropic
of Capricorn is ideal. Tobacco has been
cultivated in N.S.W., and as far south as
Manjimup (W.A.) with excellent results.
The best-known varieties now in use in
Australia are the Virginian (V. tabacum v.
augustfoKum) and Maryland (N. tabacum v.
macrophylla) ; while N. persica, which pro-
duces the famous Shiras tobacco, has been
highly recommended by the Agricultural De-
partment for use in N.S.W.
The seed-bed should consist of good light
soil, turned up to a depth of about 18in.
some months before the seeds are planted.
A drain is dug around it, and brushwood is
usually burnt on top of it, thus supplying
potash and at the same time destroying all
vermin, weed seeds, insect eggs, etc. Farm-
yard manure is generally used for the seed-
bed, except where the soil is exceptionally
rich, and the bed is worked so that no crust
is allowed to form. The seeds are planted
so as to leave about one square inch per seed-
ling, and an awning is spread over the top
to protect the young plants. In about two
months the seedlings are transferred to a
well-drained, well-sheltered paddock which
has been ploughed to a depth of at least
lOin., and there planted in rows about 3ft.
apart, and with the same distance between
each plant.
A rotation of crops such as wheat, clover,
tobacco is followed in America, and produces
excellent results. When the bud appears,
some three months after the planting, the
heart of the plant is broken out, and also
the suckers which soon afterwards appear
at the junctions of the leaf-stems with the
main stem. W hen the leaves become blotched
and sticky, and the tips of the leaves bend
downward, the crop is ready for harvesting,
generally about three months after planting.
The usual method of harvesting is to cut
the plant off at the base and hang it head
down on a rod, which, when filled, is imme-
diately transferred to the packing-shed, where
it is placed in one of two or three rows one
above the other 15ft. to 20ft. from the floor.
Until the leaves turn yellow, a period of
about seven days, constant care is taken to
ensure an even temperature, and in about
seven weeks the leaves are fit for stripping,
an operation which must be carried out on
a dull day or with the floor damped. The
leaves are then graded and made into small
bundles called “hands,” heaped for about
three weeks, packed and consigned to the
buyers.
are cane-growers inefficient?
"One of ’Em”: I have had about
40 years of more or less close acquain-
tance with the industry, and venture the
opinion that our cocksure young experts
will modify their impressions after a closer
acquaintance with its various phases, includ-
ing the diversities of soil and climate. In
bygone years we had a £3OOO-a-year expert
from Hawaii and I have no hesitation in
saying that most of his advice, if followed,
would have ruined the industry. He never
adapted himself to our conditions and his
plea for deep cultivation was foolish and
futile if applied to districts with a shallow
soil and where our occasional heavy rainfall
renders subsoiling unnecessary in some cases.
For example, to-day I could go out with a
spud-bar and by a little muscular effort drive
it down over five feet into the ground. The
heavy rain lias sunk deep into a soil that
previous to the rain was as hard as a brick,
with the cane growth at a standstill.
Now a word as to why fertilisers are not
in universal use. Some years ago I was
unable to use fertiliser owing to excessive
wet, yet I cut a crop of 28 tons of cane to
the acre. The ratoon crop got scwt- of
mixed manure to the acre plus ljcwt. of
sulphate of ammonia and cut just 12 tons
to the acre. Dry weather was the cause of
the falling off.
Had we the Hawaiian system of irriga-
tion our returns might show up better, but
the question is, Would it pay? The system
of irrigation on the Burdekin may be ad-
mitted to be crude and wasteful. With cheap
labor some of the waste could be stopped,
but when you pay a laborer £1 per day to
watch the water you may find it cheaper to
let a little run to waste rather than employ
an extra man. The consensus of opinion on
the Burdekin is that watering in the drills
does not suit every farm.
PRUNING CITRUS TREES.
“Hatter”: A word of caution might be
added to “Eleven’s” advice concerning the
pruning of citrus trees (B. 19/12/’2B). He
says the centre of the trees must be cleaned
out. But the bark of the main limbs must not
be opened up to the sunlight in the same
way that stone-fruit trees are pruned. The
reason for this is that the bark of orange and
lemon trees is very tender and is apt to be-
come scorched and hide-bound, which inter-
feres with the circulation of the sap. Under
these conditions the fruit will never properly
mature. It is a good plan to encourage a
spreading habit low to the ground in order
to shelter the soil and surface roots.
SECOND GROWTH IN POTATOES.
“Bad Australian” : “Nemo” (B. IG/l/’29)
is just a wee bit pessimistic when he sug-
gests that second growth probably causes
more loss to potato-growers than all the
pests. The pests are with the spud pro-
pagator from the day he plants the seed until
the cheque for the crop is in his pocket.
Second growth develops under special con-
ditions which operate only during a limited
period when the plants are approaching
maturity, and even then it is not of general
or frequent occurrence. If the tubers are
well grown when second growth occurs the
crop will be saved if dug at once. Even if
it should set in when they are as small as
beans they will afford a good supply of
pig-feed if allowed to run on until the haulms
wither. Potatoes, as advised by “Nemo,”
should always be “hilled up,” and the hoe
should never be idle while a weed shows,
but mulching in the way “Nemo” recom-
mends, even if practicable on a large scale,
offers too favorable a breeding ground for
insect pests and fungoid growths. The hoe
keeps the crop clear of weeds and reduces
the surface to the fine tilth so necessary
to retain moisture in the soil.
WATER RATION FOR FRUIT-TREES.
“XSA”: Although a good supply of water
is an advantage in fruitgrowing, extreme care
(Continued on page 25.)


The change that came through
DUNLOP
w
ŵ
1
m
111 P "
WL
l »iuir'
-j
&
@
&
VO
i ....
• • ■
*«
-EEEEmw
/JWZ
,S
V
_jlj
P
U -J
r*
K
*v
* /
j
1
©5 -
M 2
=C_ **
ff." /,
(f«
zr
m
w
%
A
u
77/
—Over 40 years ago J. B. Dunlop
invented the first practicable
pneumatic tyre.
For 40 years Dunlop has set
the tyre standard of the World.
5000 GARAGES
STOCK DUNLOP


ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
w
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
w
ŵ
ẁ


an
U .
/ .
S'
'4
For utmost pliancy
Light in weight, flexibly soled with
the toughest obtainable leather.
Abbey Riding Boots offer the com-
pletest freedom of movement.
Lined with soft leather, they are
restful to the feet. Elastic' insets at
sides maintain a comfortable, close
fit. And the upper is shaped to
curve naturally over the instep arch.
Order by Post
There are three fittings narrow,
medium and wide—for each size.
Right width and length are guaran-
teed. When ordering, ask for a
supply of the correct Abbey Polish
—6d. per tin.
TAN WILLOW CALF, 42/-
BLACK BOX CALF, 37/6
Enlarged catalogue post free on request.
ABBEY
Established over 81 years
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
Lill SYDNEY
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
No disease has caused more loss in sheep than Fluke,
yet for less than one-fifth of a penny per sheep this
can now be cured by the application of Carbon
Tetrachloride. This process has been tested by the
Agricultural Departments of various States in Aus-
tralia, and has received their endorsement. It
requires preparation and additions before it can be
applied to the sheep, and these are skilfully carried
out in
SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
1 pint tins .. . 4/6 5/- each
1 quart tins . . 6/6 7/- each
POST FREE ON FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins . . 13/6 16/- each
DELIVERED NEAREST RAILWAY STATION
ON FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY., LTD.,
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
ẃ
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE
3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Saves 100 Shovels !
THE MARTIN DITCHER will do the
work of a hundred men at a fraction
of the cost. It is the most useful tool
on any Australian farm. Write us
for illustrated leaflet and particulars.
ẅ
pnipwnm " ,
Ml
m.
tb&a
W&i^'
The New.
and
The Old Way
PRICE
£35
B.K.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Exton House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
T. & G. B’l'g, Light Square, Adelaide.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
THE WORLD’S LARGEST COMMERCIAL FORESTRY CO.
SUBSCRIBED SHARE CAPITAL £235,586
SUBSCRIBED BOND CAPITAL £2,750,000
BANKERS —THE BANK 0F NEW ZEALAND AND THEIR AGENTS.
SOLE BROKERS—SMITH, WYLIE AND CO., LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN BRANCHES AT MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE,
PERTH, HOBART AND NEWCASTLE.
NEW ZEALAND BRANCHES—AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON CHRISTCHURCH AND DUNEDIN ;
AND AT 36-38 NEW BROAD STREET, LONDON, E.C.2 ; JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AF RIUA ,
BOMBAY. INDIA; SINGAPORE; KUAI.A LUMPUR. FEDERATED MALAY STATES.
PAY AS YOlj 60 BY CHEQUE
1. It eliminates unwise spending.
2. It saves time and many steps in settling bills.
3. It gives prestige to your transactions.
4. It instils respect through your association with a reputable bank.
At this Bank you are allowed Interest on your
minimum quarterly balance.
< ®f liters £)an k_of Jlustralia %
HEAD OFFICE. 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at London
must be taken in the use of it. Fruit-tree
roots are better a little dry than wet, and it
is surprising how little water is necessary.
Where the channel system of irrigation is
practised the orchard receives a thorough
soaking and this is frequently more harmful
than beneficial. On typical irrigation land
which has little provision for drainage, it
is best to let the ground dry out and then
hurry the water along shallow furrows.
A surfeit of moisture during the growing
season invariably promotes rank and spindly
growth, and pruning or pinching back aggra-
vates this evil in many cases.
Water can be safely applied in late winter,
when the ground should be thoroughly cul-
tivated and harrowed for summer moisture
conservation. There should then be no need
for further waterings. Should extreme heat
and winds cause serious dryness, the grower
should thin out rather than apply water.
Water should never be applied when the
fruit is nearing the marketing or storing
stage.
The times when water is likely to help
fruit-trees are before flowering and a month
after, and then not again until the crop has
been harvested.
After harvesting, trees have done their
work for the season and should be allowed
to rest and recuperate until their next year.
In this way will sturdy vigorous growth and
the bearing of good quality fruit be main-
tained.
GINGER.
“Minthall”: A crop that is gaining favor
in Q’land and is adaptable to most parts of
Australia is ginger. Given a moderate rain-
fall it will thrive on anything from sandy
soil to blue clay, and the roots produced
from clay soil, though not as large as those
from loose ground, will be better keepers.
The tubers are sown in drills much in the
same way as Jerusalem artichokes are, and
the smallest piece does for seed. They are
cultivated in the same way as potatoes, and
once established can be left well alone till
maturity. A reasonable .return from a ton
of seed is from eight to ten tons of saleable
tubers, each plant yielding about two to four
pounds. After harvesting, by fork or plough,
the tubers are best placed in a shed to dry
a little before bagging, when they will stand
any amount of transportation without de-
terioration save for a little shrinkage in the
case of roots grown in loose, moist soil.
Ginger has the almost unique advantage of
being practically free of disease. The price
for the tubers ranges from £4O to £OO per
ton according to quality and grading. Every
year the demand is increasing, and in the
past a great deal was imported, mostly from
China. The roots arc used for the manu-
facture of essences, flavorings and sweets,
and are also sold dry and crystallised. Jam
factories use a lot for flavorings and in chut-
ncys, sauces and curry powders, and the drug
trade takes fair quantities. A few roots
obtained from a seedsman and planted in a
corner of the garden will soon show you if it
is suitable for your district.
BANANA VARIETIES.
“Feng-Sliui”: The authorities consulted
by “Cog” (B. 2/l/’2O) may have decided
that the variety of banana grown in Queens-
land is superior to all others, just as a
committee of architects might decide that
Gothic architecture is best. That is no
reason for standardising either buildings or.
bananas. The fact that in the Dutch East
Indies one can get several varieties of
exceedingly succulent bananas leads to a
larger consumption of the elongated fruit as
a whole, there being nothing like a change
to stimulate the gastric juices.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Award wages for grape-pickers in the
Murray River district ( N.S.W.)? —8529.
For adult males outside the irrigation
areas, £4 7s. per week; in the irrigation
areas, £4 12s. 6d. p.w.
(1) The host time to sow subterranean
cloverf (2) Does it require a very wet
climate? (3) How many pounds of seed per
acre? (4) Do you need to cultivate the
land, or would it grow if broadcast over
grass land in damp weather? —S6IG.
(1) In autumn. The letter comes from
Miles (Q.) ; it would be a waste of time and
money attempting to sow this class of legume
there. (2) Pretty wet; it demands regular
autumn and winter rainfall. (3) When
sown with cereal crops, 21b. per acre; alone,
51b. to 61b. per acre. (4) All land intended
for clovers requires just as careful prepara-
tion as you should provide for, say, lucerne.
If the Miles writer has a notion of trying
subterranean clover, he would be well advised
to confine his attentions to such crops as
are suited to the climatic conditions of the
district, information on which can be
obtained from the Department of Agricul-
ture, Brisbane.
Where does kikuyu grass thrive best in
Q’land? How should it be planted? —Bs6B.
Generally speaking, in districts where
frosts are not too severe during the winter
months. Unfortunately, this grass has not
yet seeded in Queensland; consequently it is
necessary to plant out the roots during the
rainy season. This is more readily done by
opening out furrows from 3ft. Gin. to 4ft.
apart, placing the cuttings in the furrows at
a distance of 2ft. or 2ft. Gin. in the rows
and then throwing a covering furrow against
the cutting. It is important, however, that
the cuttings should not be entirely buried
and that the whole operation is carried out
on previously cultivated ground. Once estab-
lished, kikuyu grass is a rapid grower, and
for this reason it should not be located close
to paddocks which are constantly under cul-
tivation.
(1) What is the rate of payment for con-
tributions to The Bulletin’s “Man on the
Land ” pages? (2) How many words are
necessary in each contribution? (3) When
are payments made? —5633.
(1) Threepence per line; in addition, two
prizes of £2O and £lO are offered for the
most useful contributions during the six
months ending June 30. (2) Just as many
as will convey to the reader useful and
practical information. (3) As soon as
claims are received; state page, date and
column in which contribution appears and
post to the Accountant.
(1) What is “agricultural lime"? (2)
Which is most suitable for preparation,
solid massed coral formation, or new coral
out of the sea? (3) Should it he burned o>
ground unburned? (4) Would a clear stream
rising in and running through limestone
country be of any benefit, irrigated, in rela-
tion to liming the soil? —8505.
(1) Lime not up to the standard required
for builders’ lime. (2) Either would be
suitable. (3) The cost of grinding “un-
burnt” would be very great. The burnt lime
is converted into a fine powder on being
slaked with water. More “lime” is used in
agricultural practice than ground limestone.
(4) Of very little benefit; the result would
not be equivalent to that obtained from
liming the soil.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Gaeo”: It is a good idea to have out-
buildings on a higher level than the house.
Then catch your rain water from them into
a big tank and from it have water laid
on to your garden, laundry, bathroom, etc.,
by means of gravitation.
“Cheon”: One of the pig-breeder’s worries
is the animal’s habit of rooting up his yard.
The best cure is to operate on piggy when
lie’s only a few weeks old. With an extra
sharp knife cut a small slice off the up-
turned top of each snout. This is princi-
pally cartilage and causes no more pain or
bleeding than ear-marking a lamb or calf.
This is preferable to the use of rings, which
get caught and cause needless suffering.
“Cheon”: To rid super.-bags of the sul-
phuric acid that rots them so quickly, mix
lib. of washing soda in three gallons of water
and soak the bags in the solution. Though
useless for bagging wheat they can be used
for many other purposes. The super, smell
can be got rid of by washing them in running
water, but soda must be used first.
“W.E.H.”: The best way to get rid of
bracken is to cut down the ferns with a
scythe or scrub-hook. In a few days new
growth will make its appearance abovfe the
surface of the ground. The young plants are
very soft and if sheep are driven backward
and forward over the patch the tender shoots
will be bruised and will die.
“Curlew”: Last year I had some tons of
pumpkins, but lost a considerable number,
which rotted. In one corner, however, chaff
had been spilt over them and had worked its
way amongst them. Quite late in the season
I began using these, and was surprised to
find them turn out as bright and firm as
when they were stored.
“Snowrock”: To put an ants’ nest out of
business pour half a pint of motor-spirit
(petrol, benzine, etc.) down the one hole,
if only one. If there are more than one hole,
one-third of a pint down each will do the
trick. The vapor is heavier than air and
sinks to the bottom of the nest, smothering
every insect.
“Rington”: When sowing willow-trees
about a dam or stream they must be pro-
tected from stock. Get long boughs with
leaves left on the extremities only. Plant
them firmly in the moist earth with the
leaves so high out of the ground that the
stock cannot reach them. Of course, if the
dam is fenced off from the stock and the
water pumped out into troughs this trouble
need not be taken with the willows.
“Der Jong”: It would appear from a
recent report from South Africa that the
farmer over there, who, in the past, like his
Australian cousin, waged war on what he
thought were pests, is beginning to realise
that he has been following the wrong course.
South Africa has many affllictions for the
farmer which the Australian does not know.
Among them is the fierce and cunning
baboon, which, though it confines itself to
the stony hills and their neighborhood, has
always been considered a menace to crop
and sheep farmers by reason of its fondness
for grain and lambs. The result has been
that the baboons have been mercilessly
slaughtered in the districts where they are
prevalent, till their numbers in settled South
Africa are sadly diminished to-day. But
the baboons, going abroad as they do in
large flocks, are mighty eaters of insects,
these forming their staple food. With the
diminishing of the baboons, the grass- and
karoo-devouring insects have increased out
of all proportion. The moral seems to be:
Don’t shoot till you’re sure.
“Two Seas”: A Crookwell squatter re-
cently asked a nurseryman what he could
recommend as a handsome and shady tree.
The nurseryman, not very tactfully, sug-
gested a Taxus yew. The squatter indig-
nantly remarked that he hated the sight of
both varieties —Federal and State.
“Bandy Andy”: Something of a record in
the transference of stock was put up re-
cently, when a single stud ram was taken
from the Riverina to a run near Richmond
in N.Q. in less than a week for the 1255
miles. He was purchased at the famous
Boonooke stud, his new owner having
motored down from Richmond to get him.
He was then loaded in a special crate on a
trailer behind the car and driven to his new T
home in state. He was fed and watered
night and morning, and stabled in one
fashion or another every night. In spite
of the long run, he arrived quite fresh and
unaffected.
“Ivulumadoo”: This sounds a bit compli-
cated, but it’s a quicker way of calculating
the cubic, contents of a dam or ensilage pit
with sloping ends or sides than any yet pub-
lished on this page. Multiply half the top
length by the top breadth. Multiply half the
bottom length by the bottom breadth. Add
these two products together. Now there’s
another little sum. Take half the difference
between bottom length and top length, mul-
tiply it by the difference between top breadth
and bottom breadth, and divide result by
three. Subtract the product from the result
of sum No. 1 and multiply result by depth.
If you calculate in feet the result will be
cub. ft. Divide by 27 to get cub. yards.


Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Young man (22) desires position, clerical,
general store or plantation, in Fiji or Java.
Strong, capable and willing.—S487.
Married man (35), eight years owner
up-to-date market garden, Sydney, wishes to
hear of share-farming proposition anywhere
N.S.W. or Vic—8630.
Young lady (22) will give services any
capacity to lady travelling.—8505.
Typist-stenographer, Sydney, seeks work at
home, or will go out per hour, day or week.
Manuscripts called for and delivered. —8669.
English lady (40) would like to corres-
pond with other English people, exchange
experiences ; has travelled. —8691.
Handy young man (28) wants work in
the Islands.—8677.
Words of “Men of Harlech.” (To D. A.
Thom, Box 1613 BB, G.P.O., Sydney.)
Painter (35) wants work anywhere,
Q’land or Islands, or will take job on sta-
tion. Experienced also in pig-breeding and
-fatte hi n g.—8680.
Young lady, Tas., experienced driver, wants
position as chauffeur. —8737.
Widow wants to correspond with middle-
aged persons intending visiting Melbourne
view exchanging holidays later on. —8521.
Young man (25). lifelong farming experi-
ence, Tas., strong, able to drive car, wants
position on mainland farm or sheep station.
—8736.
Young man, well educated, horseman and
athlete, jackerooing experience, requires
similar position where services 1 could be
utilised in tutoring, elementary subjects and
voice production. Understands simple; book-
keeping and is an experienced car driver. —
8729.
Working management of cattle property
wanted by man with considerable experience
in Central and Northern Queensland. —8682.
Trained nurse, Hobart, would like position
as companion somewhere in Sydney. Refer-
ences.—8659.
Refined woman (50), Sydney, good house-
keeper, would like permanent home and
wages in return domestic duties, disengaged
end of February.—8674.
Migrant (21), farmer’s son, six months’
Australian experience, understands machin-
ery, seeks employment on N.S.W. farm or
station. —8664.
Sober young man, strong, trustworthy,
wants work in Islands, banana and sugar-
cane experience.—8704.
Married couple, husband (ex-A.I.F.) all-
round worker, knowledge vegetable-; banana-
growing, poultry, expert packer, wife good
housekeeper and cook, want position on
Q’land farm or station, or would consider
working on shares. —8734.
Engineer, certificated, 12 years’ experience
Malayan tinfields, dredging, sluicing, boring
and reporting, desires position Malaya or
Australia. —S71S.
Young lady would like position travelling
companion or charge of children in return
for passage to England or Continent. Ex-
perienced traveller,' trained kindergartener.
—8634.
Young man (29), married, wants position
as boundary-rider or caretaker of small
Q’land sheep-run.—8687.
To buy small handy rope-jack for spinning
up small rope, about £1. —8713.
To buy copy Laurie’s “Interest Tables,”
giving int. from 5 p.c. to 9 p.c.—8744.
Whereabouts of Thomas Allcock, who left
Derbyshire about 38 years ago and was
stationed in W. Indies on board British
gunboat Partridge. (To Samuel Allcock,
General Delivery, Calgary, Alberta, Canada.)
Whereabouts of Chas. F. G. Wilson, ex-
A.I.F., has one eye, formerly of Bundaberg
(Q.), believed to be N.Q. sugar fields. Brother
inquiring. (To V. Wilson, Box 176, P.O.,
Haymarket, Sydney.)
Would-be traveller (40) desires corres-
pond with another, view arranging 12 months’
trip round the world. —8650.
Words of “Finnegan’s Ball.” (To P.
Kearney, Morningside, Ivanhoc, N.S.W.)
Words of verse beginning “Miss Flora
McFlimsy of Madison Square.” (To Clive
E. Woodman, Rosebery-x-oad, Killara, Syd-
ney.)
Information Sought.
Method of cleaning the gums of false
teeth? —8368.
In the home, powdered pumice and warm
water applied with a brush and then polished
with whiting. But a dentist, if you are handy
to one, could do a better job by means of
lathe polishing.
Names of boohs dealing with (1) the
geological conditions in which opal is found,
(2) the cutting and polishing of opal. —
8430.
(1) “The Mineral Industry of N.S.W.,”
.Gov. Printing Office, Sydney. 7s. 6d.;
“Opal,” by T. G. Wollaston, 7s. 6d. (2) Not
aware of any such publication.
(1) Can you recommend any treatise on
trout-fishing in Australia? (2) Class and
■weight of rod generally used? (3) Class,
weight and length of line required? (4)
Wliat is the attitude of sportsmen to waders,
“dry-fly ” and natural bait? (5) Where can
a list of good N.S.W. trout grounds he ob-
tained? —8550.
(1) Suggest you get in touch with the
secretary, N.S.W. Rod-fishers’ Society. (2)
Split-cane rods are mostly used, the weight
depending on the physique of the user;
Boz. rods, 10ft. or 10ft, 6in., are .suitable
for N.S.W. waters. (3) 1.8.1. or I.C.L.
tapered lines are recommended, but the
weight depends on the power of the rod
selected. Usual length of tapered lines is
35yds.; an additional 30yds. of plaited silk
backing is necessary for big trout in fast
water. (4) Waders are used by many; some
anglers use strong boots and puttees; there
are “dry-fly” purists here as elsewhere. The
all-round angler who fishes “wet” or “dry,”
as occasion demands, gets the most and
largest fish. To the generality of trout-
fishers, natural bait is taboo, but its use
is lawful, as also is the employment of
spinners. (5) State Fisheries Department,
Bridge-street,. Sydney, issues up-to-date in-
formation.
(1) I am a certificated cream-tenter,
grader and. butter-maker in Queensland.
Would my certificates hold good if l were
to seek employment in N.S.W.? (2) Wages
paid to testers, graders and butter-makers
in N.S.W.? —8435.
(1) Presumably the certificates have
been issued by the Queensland Dept, of
Agriculture; if so, they will hold good in
N.S.W., but the holder may be subjected
to a practical examination at any time by
a Dairy Branch inspector. (2) Award
wages: Cream testers, £5 Is. per week;
graders, £5 Gs.; butter-makers, £5 14s.
/ low to dissolve fish scales? —8556.
If you mean to eat the fish, know of no
means whereby the thing can be done with-
out detrimentally affecting the flesh. If,
however, you desire to make fish-scale pearls,
you will find the methods adopted to remove
the lustre from the scales described in Tress-
ler’s “Marine Products of Commerce,” chap-
ter 9. The book can probably be consulted
in Brisbane Public Library.
Is there a mineral called solerite? What
area does a miner’s right cover? —8614.
Never heard of a mineral of that name.
There is one called sodalite, which, as the
name suggests, is soda-bearing. A miner’s
right covers no particular area; generally
speaking, it confers the right to prospect
and apply for any area under the various
Mining Acts.
(1) Where in Australia is graphite mined?
(2) Is there much demand for it locally?
(31 Value per ton? (4) Name of firm
which would be interested in deposits? —
8524.
(1) On the west coast of South Aus. and
in parts of Queensland. (2) No great
demand. (3) Varies from 30s. per ton to
£3O per ton, according to quality. (4)
Send thoroughly representative sample to
Frank Hambridge, 22 Bridge-street, Sydney,
and he will advise you.
(1) A bowler pitched a ball off the mat-
ting. Thinking it a wide, though the umpire
did not call, the batsmwi. made no attempt
to play it; and it, broke in and hit the
wicket. Was he out? (2) What constitutes
a wide? —8690.
(1) Yes. (2) Rule 12 says: “If the
bowler shall bowl the ball so high over or so
wide of the wicket that, in the opinion of
the umpire, it is not within reach of the
striker the umpire shall call ‘wide ball.’ ”
(1) The ways of obtaining a commission
in the R.A.A.,F.? (2) Would a lad whose
educational qualifications are below the
N.S.W. Q.C. standard stand a chance? —
8711.
(1) There are four distinct methods of
obtaining a commission in the General Duties
branch of the R.A.A.F.: (a) Through the
Royal Military College, Duntroon, a per-
manent commission; (b) through a Flying
School, by means of a cadetship, a short ser-
vice commission; (c) by direct grant of a
commission to persons qualified as pilots or
with special technical qualifications; (and)
through the ranks. Conditions of the dif-
ferent modes of entry are given in a pamph-
let issued by the R.A.A.F., Victoria Barracks,
Melbourne. (2) Competition is keen, and
educational qualifications are important. It
is deemed essential that candidates should
have at least reached the Intermediate
standard.
(1) What are the materials used in
making blue prints? (2) Directions for
making the prints—l have the tracing and
the printing frame? —8357.
(1) The ordinary print in which white
lines appear on a blue ground may be made
on paper prepared as follows: (a) Potas-
sium ferricyanide 10 drachms, distilled
water 4 ounces; (b) iron ammonium cit-
rate 15 drachms, distilled water 4 ounces.
Mix together and apply to surface of paper,
using cotton-wool. No developer is required.
The paper after exposure is simply washed
in water to remove the unaltered iron salts.
(2) Place tracing face downwards in print-
ing frame; cover tracing with sensitised
paper; then replace the back of the frame.
Make sure that tracing and paper are in per-
fect contact. Expose to direct sunlight for two
to five minutes. The print is finished when
the image is a greenish-yellow color.
(1) How to treat or tan a heavy duck
tent so as to make it waterproof? (2) What
to add to keep silverfisli 0ut? —8469.
(1) Stretch it out smoothly in a clean,
dustless place, and give each side several
coats of boiled linseed oil, applied thinly but
thoroughly, the first coat being rubbed well
in. It is unlikely that insects will attack
this. (2) Arsenic can be added to, the oil
as an insecticide, but it is dangerous to
handle.
llow to make a wooden amplifier (horn
shape) for a gramophone; correct dimensions
and person from whom diagrams can be
secured? —8453.
To make a wooden amplifier in tubular
form is very difficult, and metal is the bbst
material to use. A good wooden amplifier
can be made of redwood in rectangular sec-
tions. If the opening at the base of the tone-
arm is llin., for every 12in. the taper should
be ljin.'wider; thus at the end of a 3-feet
tube the opening would be sJin. For the
final outlet to the front of cabinet the dimen-
sions for widening can be doubled. G. Vi ol-
laston, 177 George-street, Sydney, could
supply a diagram.
What do bonuses mem in life-vnswm'nce
offices? —8666.
The question is rather vague. An office,
to begin with, draws up a scale of premiums.
The premium is based on: (1) the expecta-
tion of life of the person to be insured, and
that is governed normally by his (or her)
age- (2) the rate of interest which it can
be assumed will be earned by the premiums
as they are paid in; (3) the expense of run-
ning the business. But, naturally, offices
like to be on the safe side, so they usually
calculate on the average man living fewer
years than he actually does live, especially
in this country; also, they assume lower
interest-earnings than are actually realised.
Sometimes also they assume a higher expense
rate than they actually achieve. Conse-
quently when the actuary reckons up what
total amount should be saved up towards
meeting the liabilities under the policies, he
finds there is too much in hand; and this
is generally distributed as a bonus. In prac-
tice, the office says “You are assured for
£500; actually we have enough in hand to
assure you for £l2 more, so we will add £l2
to the amount for which you are covered.”
Some bonuses don’t mean anything except
that the policy-holder has been charged too
much, and/or the policy liabilities have not
been properly valued. In the latter case a
bad position may be simply made worse.
How to dry-clean gabardine and silk? —•
8567.
Get a magnesia block from a chemist’s
and rub the materials well with it, brushing
off tho powder so formed. Or sprinkle with
powdered magnesia, roll up for a few hours,
and brush lightly and firmly.
(1) Why docs a leg-break bowler tire
sooner than an off-break bowler? (2) How
is it a left-hand spin bowler bowling round
the wicket is more likely to succeed when
the wicket is wet than a right-hand spin
bowler bowling over the wicket? —8549.
(1) One action is no more tiring than the
other. Difference in physique or action
might account for any apparent instances.
(.2) To the right-hand batsman, the left-
hander “going away” from him is harder to
see and deal with because the “blind snot”
area is'greater on the leg than on the off.
Further, the flight of the ball is “against
the stroke,” and lends itself to uppish shots
on either side of the wicket. To a left-hand
bat, the left-hand bowler presents none of
these dangers, though a right-hand bowler
does. The right-hand bowler’s off-break is
easier for a right-hand batsman to see and
watch, while the flight and spin of the ball
facilitate driving on the off or pulling and
hooking. At the same time, a right-hand
bowler of good quality is just as dangerous
on sticky wickets as his left-handed brother.
The question of delivery over or round the
wicket is of minor importance, and is largely
a matter of individual idiosyncrasy.
Recipes for (1) ginger beer, (2) hop
beer, (3) lemonade, (4) lemon syrup, and
(5) Boston cream. —8241.
(1) Take 31b. sugar, |lb. whole ginger,
l|oz. cream tartar, juice 3 lemons, 1 tea-
spoonful yeast, white of 1 egg, 2gal. boiling
water. Bruise ginger well and boil for
20min. in the water. Add sugar and lemon,
then strain. When cool, add remainder of
ingredients, stir well, stand for 12 hours,
then bottle and cork tightly. (2) 4oz. hops.
71b. treacle, loz. whole ginger, s|gal. water.
1 cup yeast. Mix all but the yeast, and
bring to boil; boil 2hr. and let cool in a
tub. Add yeast, stir, and stand in tub 16hr.
Put in barrel and stand 2 days without
bung, barrel being slightly slanted. Bung
closely, and use in a week. (3) 2oz. citric
or tartaric acid, 31b. sugar, 1 teaspoonful
essence lemon, 2qt. boiling water. Boil
sugar and water for a few minutes, add
acid, stir' till dissolved, strain into a basin.
When cool, add essence and bottle. (4)
About 3doz. lemons,. 2soz. citric acid, lqt.
cold water, 31b. loaf sugar. Squeeze juice
from fruit, add water, acid and sugar to
juice and pulp, strain through a jelly bag,
then bottle. (5) 21b. sugar, 4£pt. boiling
water, juice 2 lemons or 2 teaspoonfuls
essence lemon, 2oz. tartaric or citric acid, 3
whites eggs. Boil water aud sugar 2min., stir
in acid ; when nearly cold add lemon and stir
in beaten whites. Beat up, then bottle and
cork well. To use, take 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls
to a large- lialf-tumbler of water, and add
4 teaspoonful baking soda. Stir till it effer-
vesces.
What, mainly, does the N.B.W, Truck Act
/provide?'- —8564.
That the entire amount of wages earned
by any workman must be paid to him in
money, at intervals of not more than 14
days, if demanded, notwithstanding any con-
tract to the contrary. Part-payment in goods
is ■ declared illegal except in the case of
medical attendance and medicine, or fuel,
tools, implements or materials used by the
workman, or provender for horses employed.
In any action brought by a workman against
his employer for the recovery of wages, no
set-off is allowed for goods supplied from any
shop or store kept by the employer. There
must be no contract stipulating how or
with whom any portion of wages is to be
expended, and no employer may dismiss a
workman on account of the manner in which,
or with whom, he spends any portion of his
wages. The Act (it dates from 1900) does
not apply to seamen, domestic servants or
persons employed in agricultural or pastoral
pursuits.
'Name of books dealing with the lining of
riding and cart saddles? —Bs9B.
There are no such publications, as far
as our information goes. __ To line and stuff
a saddle properly calls for a fair amount
of skill, but the methods are such as cannot
easily be set down in writing. Saddlery,
like many other old crafts, is taught in the
workshop without the assistance of textbooks.
How to remove black Nugget stains from
tan dancing shoes? —8512.
Slight stains may be removed with petrol;
remember that it is inflammable. If exten-
sive And unyielding to petrol, dissolve 1 tea-
spoon of oxalic acid in half a cup of hot
water, and rub with a rag on a stick. Re-
polish the patches with tan polish rubbed
well in to restore color.
(1) . What are the three chief wool-
producing States of U.S.A. and their out-
puts? (2} Average price of land in Texas?
(3) Where can full information be obtained
about the sheep industry in U.S.A.? —8296.
(1) Texas, Wyoming and Montana. In
1927 Texas produced 32,675.0001 b. of wool,
Wyoming 25,000,0001 b., and Montana
24,229,0001 b. (2) For wool-growing, roughly,
2S dollars per acre. (3) Bureau of Agri-
cultural Economics, Dept, of Agriculture,
Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Does Anybody Know?
How to prevent small black ants removing
seeds from plots?—B6sß.
How to mend a >v a ter bag?—B732.
Any way of preventing leeches from biting
stock in creek waters?—Bs9l.
Brief Answers.
A.R.W.: It is not a good office, but it may
pull through Bitten: Watch “Wild Oat’’ pages;
there will probably be developments F.A.8.: (1)
Haven’t enough information to advise with any
confidence, and don’t know where to get it. (2)
See no reason for selling.... Squat: There’s no
money in following the crowd unless you’re very
agile....F.D.D.: See “Wild Cat,’’ B. 30/l/’29
A.V.M.: Sent to the man we think most likely to
be interested.. i .E.D.W.: (1) Expense depends on
the particular surgeon engaged. (2) A personal
cx'amination is essential. It looks, however, as if
something might be done for you; attend the skin
clinic at Prince Alfred or Sydney Hospital.... J.T.:
Seeds can be obtained from Arthur Yates and Cos..
184 Sussex-street, Sydney; 3s. Id. per lb R.S.:
Cummings,, Anderson, Ltd., 5 Hamilton-street, Syd-
ney. .. .J.H.C.: Any firm that tins foodstuffs might
be interested in the device. Protect yourself with a
provisional patent before approaching possible buyers.
. ...C.8.C.: “Douglas’s Encyclopaidia” (17s. posted),
from Dymock’s, 428 George-street, Sydney
F.T.M.: (1) The car is not on the Australian mar-
ket. (2) Motor in Australia (6d., monthly), 228
Pitt-street, Sydney; Mot.ou-Lifb in Australia (Od.,
fortnightly), 247 Elizabeth-street, Sydney S.C.:
A satisfactory floor-polish could not be made from
old gramophone records... .W.W.: Dyke’s “Motor
Encyclopedia” (305.), N.S.W. Bookstall Cos., Sydney,
gives good instruction on the principal operations
and repairs of all types of motor vehicles ; it covers
both mechanical and electrical sides. Mr. J. Christie,
head teacher, Motor Construction Dept., Sydney
Technical College, would be pleased to assist y0u....
L.P.: Known as the Hogarth 3d., it used to cir-
culate in Sydney in the ’fifties; it is worth about
5s F.M.1.: Except, perhaps, in very small lots,
golf balls are not manufactured in Australia....
A. 8 .: Suggest you get in touch with the German
Verge Trust, 12 Spring-street, Sydney E.A.W.:
When health inspectors are required in Vic. vacancies
are advertised by the State Public Service Com-
missioner. Maximum age is 40 ; and applicants must
hold the Royal Sanitary Institute certificate of com-
petency, or other approved certificate; salary ranges
from £291 to £330 p.a T.P.C.: Rev. W. S.
Heathcote, late of the Unitarian Church, Liverpool-
street, Sydney... .L. 0.: (1) It would be improper
for the chairman and members to sign blank cheques,
but there would be no objection to their signing
the completed cheque before the secretary signs, (2)
The chairman and members signing-the blank cheque
would be liable to the society in the event of loss.
G.B.: It was essential for you to give notice
in writing to the co. within 24 hours after the
occurrence of the fire; your failure to do so re-
lieved the co. from liability under the policy. Notice
to the agent in writing would have been sufficient,
but apparently you did not make any written claim
at all until 15 days after the five had occurred
W.G.: Broomham Bros., High-street, Willoughby,
Sydney, may buy them.... J.C.: Suggest you obtain
literature dealing with the subject from the Aus.
Cement Manufacturers’ Association, 14 Spring-street,
Sydney J.R.: See that the wall to which the
wash is to be applied is thoroughly clean. Keep the
wash damped down for 10 days.... M.G.D.: More-
land Metal Cos., 3 Market-street, Sydney J.P.F.:
(1 and 3) Making a search. (2) Read the section
“Coinage” in the “Official Year Book of the Com-
monwealth” S.J.H.; Duval Trading Cos., 58 Mar-
garet-street, Sydney... .F. 8.: The note has no \alue
except as a curiosity to collectors S.D.C.: Get in
touch with Dalgcty’s, Morehead’s, or Wincheombe,
Carson, Brisbane... .W.F.L.: Before its value can be
determined it is necessary to know the title and
publication date... .G.S.: Bulawayo Chronicle.
Bulawayo, and Rhodesia Herald, are
dailies that print weekly editions W.W.: “The
Case for Christianity,” by C. F. Rogers, can be got
from Angus and Robertson, Sydney (16s. Bd.,
posted) L.S.; (1) Avery large mileage of portable
line is used in Java and Fiji for transporting the
crops. (2) The cane-grub pest is not a serious one
in’ either country, and no special steps are taken
against it A.V.: Master Bakers’ Association (Q.)
advises you to advertise in a Brisbane paper or get
in touch with Ray White, Colonial Mutual Cham-
bers, Queen-street, Brisbane... -J.J.8.: (1) No,
although it is claimed that the Meyer-Jiminez blood-
test determines within limits the paternity of a
child. (2) It has been in some countries, but it is
doubtful whether an English or Australian jury
would accept such evidence as proof of relationship.
(3) Nowhere in Australia, to our knowledge....
T.E.M.K.: The use of the ordinary white preparation
is not recommended. A special odorless variety can
be obtained A.J.: You are not entitled to a
week’s notice or to compensation. If you choose to
leave by reason of a change in employer you are
not in fact dismissed... .W.G.D.: Section 317 of the
Vic. Licensing Act provides: “No licensed person
shall recover any debt or demand on account of any
liquor supplied by him to any person for consumption
on the premises, except the value of any liquor sup-
plied with meals to any person bona fide lodging
in the house” E.S.W.: Either advertise for such
a business or apply to brokers that have them for
sale L.G.S.: (1) Stott’s Technical Correspon-
dence College, 70 Pitt-street, Sydney, and 1.C.5.,
140 Elizabeth-street, Sydney. (2) Write to the col-
leges E.A.W.: The chassis are manufactured for
the most part in Canada; assembling and body-build-
ing are done in Australia... .A. J.N.: Small Homes
Bureau, Institute of Architects, 5 Elizabeth-street.
Sydney E.A.W.: An infant is only responsible for
debts contracted before he is 21 when the same are
ratified by him after attaining that age C.L.J.:
Any leading chemist should be able to supply the
ointment T.C.: The wager was made on Jan.
11; the mare was scratched on the 16th. lon are
not’ entitled to a refund (Many others mailed).


uWtJv
jA UUiMetv
üßonoCs
a /» «
Sharm
SILK RAYON UNDERWEAR,
6 jias Reached Perfection
ŵ
The Gorgeous Colorings, the Perfect
Fit and Thorough Workmanship,
place “Charm’’ far and away ahead
of all other underwear.
Now with the Guarantee you are
given Extra Security at the Same Price
Faultless fabric—per-
fect knitting makes
“Charm” the best Rayon
Silk Underwear pro-
duced in Australia.
ẁ
It is the Extra Body
in this Super Rayon
Fabric that gives so
much added wear.
■Cham)" Pyjamas
ẃ
In two styles Sleeveless with low
neck, and short sleeves, in smart
two-tone effects. io /1 1
From iy/li
Be sure and see Bond’s Fixed
Price Tab and Guarantee on
Every Garment.
GEORGE
MADE BY THE EMPLOYEES OF
.. BOND & CO. LTD. (in uq.
SYDNEY. N.S.W AUSTRALIA


' V
mm
X
:\ ....
K/
mmm
■x,
Lx W .vx_w».:
X,;
/issa]
rrm
vx
M SS S
«J
"7/5 Quality Never Changes. ”
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
VISITORS TO THE CONTINENT OF EUROPE
Do not fail to visit
THE PARIS
INTERNATIONAL FAIR
MAY 11 to 26
Further particulars obtainable from
THE FRENCH TRADE COMMISSIONER,
Kembla Buildings, Margaret Street, Sydney.
SMOKE-OH!
COULDN’T STAY ANY LONGER.
FATHER ( meeting couple in doorway): “A
nice time to bring Emily home! Six
o’clock in the mornin’! Huh!”
EMILY: “Listen, Dad! It isn’t Norman’s
fault. He’s got to be back to work at
seven.”
ẅ
TESTY TRIFLES.
Bowling is an art; and the Hammond type
of batsman maketh the art sick.
Although there is no scrum in cricket, the
Test team could do with a Hooker.
The hit of the season —Jackson’s.
w
HOT STUFF.
Mary had a little lamb;
The lamb had piles of dough;
And everywhere that Alary went
She made it melt like snow.
H.
HOLDING HIS OWN.
“You renumber my little boy / Don't you
think he has shot up since you saw
him last?”
“Wonderfully. Why, he's still up to the
hem of your skirt.' 1
Matrimonial item :—
She “really understood him,”
He explained—so they were teed.
And because she understood him
She divorced him —so she said.
THE UNREASONABLE SYDNEYITE
AND THE CONSCIENTIOUS HEALTH
CAMPAIGNERS.
“ They're about my house in hundreds” (a
Mere Citizen vms speaking),
“Big and small and bald and hairy;
Grey and brown and fierce and wary.
All day long I see them feeding on my gar-
bage, and the squeaking
That goes on all night is fearful.”
“You have surely spilt an earful,”
Smiled the Sanitary Expert, “but you leave
us unenlightened.
Speak out! Who or what afflicts you? Are
they,” and his manner brightened,
“Ghouls who masquerade as men?”
“Rats,” explained the Cit-i-zen.
“We are catching them in dozens,” cried the
Civic Father gaily,
“Old and young and strong and weakly.
Some resist, but more go meekly.
In the streets, arcades and footpaths we are
dropping on them daily.
With the true reformer’s unction
We proceed, without compunction,
To instil into their bosoms such a terror of
our actions,
Such a salutary horror of the paltriest- in-
fractions,
That they bolt like rabbits when”
“Rats?” inquired the Cit-i-zen.
“Not at all,” the Civic Fathei' frowned, quite
clearly disconcerted.
Said the Sanitary Expert:
“ ’Twould the feelings of our ’tecs, hurt
In a lamentable way if we their energies
diverted,
And directed their attention
To the quarter that you mention.
No, their duty is to prosecute, without a
gleam of pity,
Those who scatter scraps of paper and the
like about the city.
Thus we’ll give it health, and then” —* —
“Rats !” exclaimed the Cit-i-zen.
D. B. J.
ACHIEVEMENT.
“Since the lifting of the ban on liquor at Canberra
a single individual has collected over 12,000 empty
beer-bottles and forwarded them to Sydney.” —News
item.
Canberra! chaste and radiantly new,
A nation in her pride gave birth to you.
No domes you boast, nor steeples drenched
with age;
No score inscribed on ancient hist’ry’s page;
You have no crumbling battlements to say
That long ago you kept a foe at bay —
Still, what you’ve done deserves at least a
cheer.
Look at the monument you’ve raised to beer!
D. McM.
POINTS OF VIEW.
Reprinted by Special Arrangements with
the Tabloid.
Yet Another Sinister Disappearance.
No. 5 Pobble-street, Surry Hills, is
plunged in gloom, for pretty little Rosabelle
(“Rozzo”) Romano is missing.
Only yesterday this winsome child was
seenj wending her way schoolwards —like
“young Virginia trippingly,” to quote the
immortal William. And now she is gone,
and there is an ache in a Mother’s Heart
that not all the comforting words of a loyal
and loving husband can exorcise.
Miss Romano, whose home-suburb is
Bankstown, has been staying with her
aunt, Mrs. Harris, of Surry Hills, for the
past six months. Shq is known to the
Younger Set of Pobble-street as bright and
intelligent, keenly interested in her lessons,
and with all the modern Society girl’s love
of healthy sport. Chestnut-haired, blue-
eyed, and the fortunate possessor of dazzling
teeth, “Rozzo” has no boy friends, and was
rarely known to be out after dark. Mrs.
Harris, when interviewed at her home by
our representative, was in a distracted state.
“It is an affair for the police—l know it is,”
was her poignant comment.
This is the 23rd disappearance in mys-
terious circumstances of all-too-attractive
girls during the past month, and it points,
beyond question, to the existence in our
midst of White Slavery on an organised
scale. What is our spineless Federal
Government going to do about it? We
have demanded legislation before; we now
insist.
We are now privileged to make public a
little private correspondence.
Letter from Mrs. Harris to Mrs.
Romano: —
(Wednesday).
Well Martha that young faggit of yors
is orf agen as I professied she wood you
reely might just as well ov kep er in Banks-
town she never kum back to tea from the
factory on Monday night blarst er said
Harris I lay shes on the booze agen but
I ses it’s that bloke Darkie Brown you
mark my words Darkies orf rabbiting
aving made the Loo too ot fer imself
over is larst little job An my tip is she’s
with im letter stay an good riddance
say I so no more at presint frum yor
loving sister Jane
Mulla-Mulla Police Station,
(Friday).
To Mrs. Harris, Surry Hills: —
A young woman believed to be your niece,
Rosabelle Romano, was arrested here yester-
day on charges of being drunk and dis-
orderly and having no visible means of
support. She has been passing under the
name of Mrs. Rose Brown. Description:
18-19 years of age; hair sandy ; complexion
pasty; ears prominent; two front teeth
missing from dental plate. Her companion,
JUST A SLIP OF A GIRL.
ŵ
THE SPECTRAL BOLSHIE.
“When a Chinese seaman demanded payment for
some opium the debtor’s reply was: ‘The Bolsheviks
have stolen both your opium and my. money.’”—
Sydney police-court report.
These Bolsheviks! These Bolsheviks!
They play all sorts of scurvy tricks. They
made my landlord (so he swore) increase
my rent by five bob more. “These Bolshies,”
he vociferates when I complain, “have raised
the rates.” My grocer, as he overcharges,
upon Red Moscow’s aims enlarges, roaring,
“Unless we take a stand, the Soviet will rule
the land!” I let him freely cheat and cozen,
and give me ten eggs to the dozen, dazed by
his flood of talk, but, still, remain astounded
at his bill. If I protest he will explain how
little profit he can gain. “While Bolshie
principles prevail,” he groans, “their actions
cannot fail to make the cost of living grow.”
And so it is where'er I go. It is the Bol-
shie, those who loot my pockets when for
meat or fruit or ties or socks I seek the
mart explain with most convincing art
(although to me it’s Double-Dutch) that
forces me to pay so much. When for a rise
I seek, the boss talks with
a groan of future loss. “The
Bolshevistic menace,” he de-
clares, “has really frightened
me. I daren’t increase, till it
goes hence, the margin of to-
day’s expense.”
“I do not argue—what’s
the use? I even gave a vote
to Bruce because he scared
me with his view of what
the Bolsheviks might d 0....
And now the day, it seems,
has come when Bolshies
pinch Chows' op-i-um!
I’m full of wrath—full up
I’m fed ; I’m learning quickly
to see red. Too well I
know (I’ve watched their
tricks) that life is full of
Bolsheviks—brigands w h o
raise the spectral Bolsh, the
deeds of Johnson and of
Walsh, and fiing them for-
ward, wild and free, as an
excuse for robbing me.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.
JUSTIFIABLE LUNACY.
“See that fat cove in the
Rolls-Royce?” said the Syd-
ney citizen. “He’s got liz-
ards in the loft. He sees
things—in plain English
he’s barmy. A few days ago he came into
an ofiice behind me, and just as I got through
the door he yelled to me to dodge. Said
Ned Kelly was inside, armor and all, and
had ns covered. He even pointed to the
spot behind the cash register where he
reckoned Ned was, though there was no one
there but a ladylike youth with liorn-rimmed
windows. Next he fixed his gaze on the
nape of my neck, and swore that a bloke
with an axe was measuring for a swing at
it. But after a ho said I was safe
momentarily, as the malefactor had turned
his attention to a batch of people at the
other end of the room and was slaughtering
them. No doubt about it, he’s got lizards!”
“Where did all this happen—in an
asylum ?”
“Not at all. I met this cove when I went
to pay my income-tax!”
O’JONES.


w
Beauty and Strength
Beauty in the All-Weather Tread—
strength in the perfectly balanced
Supertwist tyre body. No other tyre
combines these two qualities so well.


Build With
WUNDERLICH
Materials
Guard against faulty work -
obtain the highest value by in-
sisting on Wunderlich Building
Materials, which include:—
Art Metal Ceilings, Terra Cotta
Roofing Tiles, Asbestos Cement
(Durabestos_) Building Sheets.
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
VICHY *
m
I
IBM
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestin3.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic P.isk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
BRACKEN
By BERNARD CRONIN
Illustrations K by I^ecLSOll
ẁ
ẃ
was comfortable enough. In
all, however, there was the
same difficulty in escaping from
the curious if generally kindly in-
quiry into his affairs on the part not
only of the landlady, but of his fellow
boarders. He had always resented this.
He was not bv nature socially in-
chned; his earlier days had hardened
him into a habit of self-reliance, which
extended itself into a nervous dislike
of even ordinary social amenities. He
found himself at ease in Lois’s circle of
friends more by long practice than by an
initial impulse to become so. Even there he
was uncommunicative and impatient of
reference to his private affairs. Lois her-
self was possibly the only person before
whom he emptied his mind of its problems;
then almost invariably with cautious reser-
vation. A flat seemed exactly the sort of
place where one might shelter both action
and thought. Accordingly, he had made
careful choice and established himself on
a lease of two years.
It was a small flat, as became his needs,
but it was both modern and expensive.
Jasper furnished it himself; very simply and
conveniently. Here, again, his earlier
struggles held him to habit. His personal
wants were small; he could find no excuse
to relax his habitual caution in spending.
In large ways he was oddly inconsistent. He
gave freely to the enjoyment of the people
he liked. Towards himself he was almost
niggardly.
The walls of the rooms were done in the
newest style of rumpled stucco, tinted
faintly in orange and blue. They were other-
wise unadorned, except in the room where
he sat at night, where half a dozen etchings
hung from a narrow picture-rail of polished
mahogany. Lois had chosen the etchings
for him one day when she had persuaded
him to attend an exhibition of Australian
work at the Art Centre Galleries. Jasper
was rooted in astonishment at the prices
listed. It was only by representing the
purchase in the light of a sound investment
that Lois had prevailed over his reluctance
to buy. As investments he continued to
regard them. Some day he would sell them
in turn to someone who was as frankly
devoted to art as he himself was to com-
merce.
In the meantime he grew to approve
Lois’s insistence that he cultivate, at least
outwardly, some regard for {esthetics. He
could not deny that the etchings looked
well; nor that they had given him his first
inkling of the relation of art to commerce.
Thereafter he would occasionally make odd
purchases of the kind, on the advice of a
friendly expert. The mantel-shelf was now
a repository for some really fine examples
in Satsuma, in Ming and Sung, and in ivory
and bronzeware. The sitting-room con-
tained, beyond these things, a small table,
some chairs, a shelf of books (also of Lois’s
choosing) and a roll-top desk. Here Jasper
did most of his thinking on business lines;
rounded off the details of an impending
transaction, or plotted the genesis of yet
another.
Nor was he at all conscious of loneliness,
until his health began stealthily to fail. He
attributed this failing to a growing habit
of sleeplessness. Sleep had always hitherto
—except for the period leading up to separa-
tion from Cora—been at Jasper’s call. Sleep
had healthily steered him through the shoals
of his enormous activity in days gone by,
when mind and body both knew at times
a weariness unutterable.
But now he could not sleep. His mind
became tired; but his body, released for
some years now of its once gruelling strain,
was helpless to complete the circuit. He
dozed and. waked by turns, and rose at
daybreak, unrefreshed and irritable. He
was troubled, too, by headaches; intervals
of abominable pain, when his head seemed
to be held between the red-hot jaws of a
vyce that was slowly crushing all thought
from him. They left him as suddenly as
they had come, these pestiferous things;
left him trembling and a little dazed, and
a great deal fearing of their return. That
return might be the next day, or it might
not be for several weeks; but sooner or
later it was inevitable. Once or twice he
thought of consulting a doctor, but the
impulse invariably passed on recovery.
He decided that his nerves were respon-
sible. They were, as it might be, both be-
fore and behind his sleeplessness. And be-
hind his nerves was the unwonted fact of
small but persistent business reverses. His
grip, his intuition, or whatever it was,
seemed less sure. He had several times of
late mismanaged a deal, or had been fore-
stalled by others. His losses were incon-
siderable, and occasioned him no worry;
it was the manner of them that touched
the raw of his confidence. He found him-
self hesitating where before he would have
acted with prompt insight and discerning
touch. This brought him an uneasy anger.
There was, too, the matter of his failure,
after a lapse of half a year, to conclude
the deal in which he was joined with the
syndicate of his friends. These had made
no reproach; he sensed, none the less, the
undercurrent of their worry. The situa-
tion was awkward for them all.
The truth was, as Jasper had explained
to Ronald, that the real estate market was
suffering a depression. Values were cautious
and the banks were growing tight-fisted.
They had learned their lesson in the boom
period, and were on the qui vive night and
day. In the meantime the syndicate was
faced with the prospect of raising a second
instalment of £20,000. It was due within
a month or so, and the thought of those
concerned already showed symptoms of
panic.
Jasper spent many hours at night frown-
ing over his books and papers. His hatred
of figures had never left him. Sometimes
the sardonic humor of the thing would
strike him, and he would sit reflecting. It
was the damnedest joke, when one came
to think of it. Here he was making a living
out of figures his tools of trade
rotten, beastly things. There was life for
you. It held you to what you hated. He
used to wonder quaintly, now and then, if
the figures returned his hate. He thought
how odd it would be if they suddenly
assumed the proportions and the malicious
impulses of flesh and blood, and lured him
to his own undoing.
At the thought
he would rise and
take a small
brown - covered
notebook from a
drawer of the desk.
His mouth set de-
fi. an 11 y as hr
studied it, and
there was some-
thing covert and
mysterious in his
smile as he locked
it away once more.
Lately he found
himself consulting
this notebook
more and more
often. It was be-
coming almost in
the nature of a
rite; just as he
himself was becom-
ing more introspec-
tive.
CHAPTER XXV.
Cora Intervenes.
Quite apart
from all else,
Jasper was experi-
encing consider-
able annoyance
from Cora. Her
lawyers were continually pestering him
for more money, or threatening to
take him to court over some trumped-up
default of marital obligation. He had ended
by losing his patience entirely. Cora was
told bluntly, through her lawyers, that he
did not propose to pay her one penny more
than he was paying. Her intemperance—
Jasper had painful experience of this—had
become shocking. She was publicly parad-
ing the most intimate details of their former
life. Yet he knew that he would never
divorce her. He would not. Nothing, he
determined, should ever prevail to make
him forget what he owed to their joint in-
experience.
Tod had sought him out as soon as he
heard of the separation. Not only Tod;
old Harris, Cora’s father, with her sister,
Rosanna, had come from Guruwa. But
first Tod.
Jasper was prepared for a kind of you’ve-
deserted-my-sister attitude. To his surprise
Tod was embarrassed and crudely emotional.
His greeting, delivered huskily, had been:
“Well, it’s always been a dirty business.”
Jasper had a flash of enlightenment.
“Then you knew—all the time?”
“I didn’t know,” Tod said. He was a
dull red, and his eyes wandered in every
direction but Jasper’s own. “I didn’t know,
Jasper, old sport.”
“It doesn’t really matter. The point is,
what do you want? Not that I care a
damn what you want.”
“I don’t blame you for getting sore. But
I don’t want anything, unless it’s to say
I’m sorry.”
“We won’t go into that,” Jasper said
coldly.
It was extraordinary, but Jasper could have
sworn that there were real tears in Tod’s
eyes when he turned to go. He had often
thought of it since. Tears in Tod’s eyes!
There were plenty worse than Tod. He
had been glad when he heard that Tod had
got married later, and was doing well in
New South Wales. Tod with tears in his
eyes!
And then old Harris and Rosanna. Here,
too, Jasper had half expected abuse; at
the least, a snivelling reproach. But he had
encountered nothing of the sort. The old
man had shaken Jasper’s unwilling hand
and stared at him mournfully. He was quite
aged now, and rather pitifully infirm. And
(Continued on page J/1/.)
J. B. COOPER, the opening chapters of whose story, “A Rogue
in Amber,” will be printed on February 27. This story was
placed among the six best in The Bulletin Novel Com-
petition, and the judges reported that its plot is ingenious
and well worked out. The Bulletin recommends it as
a first-class serial.


ew in its field
but already a leader
<De<scb New though it is in the field of
2 2
t t
*
f
V
2
Mlultum pro parvo
low-priced sixes, the Chrysler-
built De Soto Six is already
solidly entrenched in leadership.
Buyers on the alert for stunning style,
surpassing performance and value are
choosing De Soto Six in numbers
unprecedented for any new car in the
industry’s history.
You will search for many a day to
find value comparable to that of the
De Soto Six.
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DE SOTO DISTRIBUTORS:
Keiv South Wales: GRENVILLE MOTORS LTD.,
205-213 William Street, Sydney.
Victoria: AUTOMOBILES PROPRIETARY LTD.,
92 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: STRADBROKE MOTORS LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: DOMINION MOTORS LTD.,
Flinders Street, Adelaide,
Western Australia: WENTWORTH MOTORS LTD.,
Milligan Street, Perth.
New Zealand: NEW ZEALAND MOTORS LTD.,
W ellington.
of Chrysler Corporation), DETROIT, MICHIGAN
DE SOTO MOTOR CORPORATION (Division
De Soto Six
PRODUCT of CHRYSLER
D 183


Bunking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £5,000,000
Capita] Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3.360.965
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1928.. £18,623,453
Directors:
Sir MARK SHELDON, 1C.8.E., Chairman.
FRANK N. YARWOOD; H. HI. LYSAGHT, 0.8. E. ;
GEORGE J. SLY, LL.D. ; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE ; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER: C. M. C. SHANNON.
CHIEF INSPECTOR: W. G. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH : 62 Bishoysgate, E.C.2.
The BANK is represented by 186 Branches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, Tsith Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 616,210
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,732,525
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Authorised Capital .. .. ..£2,000,000
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. 1,250,000
Paid Up Capital
Reserve Fund ..
. . J1.1,25u,UU0
970,000
£2,220,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,470,000
Also 115 Branches and Agencies in South Australia,
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should road the Bkitisii Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper aifd general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency. Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street. Melbourne.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — .think of
w
1 SCHUTE,
BELL & Clio.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN CI.UBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISDAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAD ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNED CDUB
N.Z. GODF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. PODO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of tlie World’s Leading
Advertising Agencies.
Shipping, etc.
Welcome to Hawaii!
Washed by sparkling surf
and sun, curtained by deep-
frond ed palms, and wreathed
with gorgeous blossoms,
Hawaii lies, a vivid spot on
the vast Pacific, welcoming
travellers from every land.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN
SPECIAL EXCURSIONS TO
HONOLULU
£75 First and £55 Second (return).
Niagara leaves Sydney May 30
Makura ~ ~ June 27
Aorangi ~ ~ July 25
ALTERNATIVE EXCURSIONS TO
TAHITI
£55 First and £4O Second (return).
Tahiti leaves Sydney May 16
Maunganui,, ~ June 1 3
Tahiti ~ ~ July 1 I
For particulars and literature write:—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY,
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
i
WM
#
* %
jr
ms&m
m.
m
V//f?
ŵ
Attractive Trips of from 2 to 7 Weeks.
Magnificent Scenery, Luxuriant Tropical Vegetation
and Quaint Surroundings.
Make a selection and book early for a most interesting
Holiday.
SOUTH SEA ISLAND CRUISES
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Lord
Howe Island, Norfolk Island and New Hebrides
JAVA AND SINGAPORE
(“The Garden of the East”)
Monthly Sailings from Melbourne and Sydney
by the “MARELLA” (7500 tons) and
“MALABAR” (5000 tons).
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY LIP.
SYDNEY AND BRANCH OFFICES
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 181).
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND .
RESERVE LIA3ILITY
*2Sfc
Directors:
£7,500,000
5,900,000
7,500,000
£20,900,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; W. E. H. Southerden, Esq. General Manager: Alfred Charles Davidson.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street. E.C. 2.
536 Branches and Agencies ii) the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,075,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,553,025 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN ( Chairman ) \ Hon. Sir TPIOMAS HUGHES,
M.L.C.; Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.: OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYIIURBT.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and ali other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping for outports).
FOR BRISBANE, MACKAY, TOWNSVILLE, CAIRNS
(Transhipping for outports).
SOUTH SEAS CALLING!
SPEND YOUR NEXT HOLIDAY
in
HAWAII
HAWAII
HAWAII
Here is Nature’s grandest entertainment—the
islands of perpetual with a
climate which is as ideal as it is bracing.
Here is a semi-Oriental setting where almost
every nation on the earth seems to be repre-
sented, life is never humdrum —is exhilarating
—thrilling—full of incident. Inter-Island
Cruises. Visit Kilauea Volcano.
Getting there is easy—convenient and relatively
cheap. Steamer Fares: From £75 first-class
return, and £55 second-class, with hotel
accommodation at from 12/- to £3 per day,
with meals —give an indication of really what
a cheap and yet wonderful holiday can be
spent in this “Paradise of the Pacific.”
Fullest particulars from all Steamship Agents
or from this office direct.
HAWAII TOURIST BUREAU,
Dept. 26, Box 162788, G.P.0., Sydney
ẁ
“THE AGE’’
Established 185 h.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“THE AGE” is a distinctive publication that
has taken root in the regard of the 'Victorian
people generally, and has flourished along the
highway of the State, keeping pace with the
development of the community for 74 years.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER TO
“THE AGE.”
It will keep you in close touch with the news
of the world "by its full and accurate reports
on all subjects having a genuine news value.
Price l-Jtd. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free within
the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE”
Publishes Over 1,000,000 advertise-
ments annually.
Rates on application to the principal advertis-
ing Service Agencies of the Commonwealth, oi
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office; 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.


By K.P.M. de Luxe Liners to
JAVA and SUMATRA
T.S.S. NIEUW HOLLAND T.S.S. NIEUW ZEELAND
11,000 Tons
First - class
Return Fares
to Java from
Sydney and
Brisbane:
£Bl
From Melbourne:
£B7
w®
\ jji
-J •i'-
11--
First-class
Return Fare
to Penang,
Belawan (Sum-
atra) from
Sydney:
£99
From Melbourne:
£lO5
Largest, fastest and most luxurious Mail Liners, via the Great
Barrier to Macassar (Celebes), Java, Singapore, Penang and
Belawan Deli (Sumatra) direct.
Head Office jor Australasia:
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION COMPANY
(K.P.M. Line),
255 George Street, Sydney.
ẃ
ft/? ftade Mark
ẅ
in the Watch Cape
105
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
‘The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
IS EAGERLY
WAITING FOR
w
e
3R egret er
NEWS PICTORIAL
Soon to be published daily in a
bandy, convenient size.
ALL THE NEWS I
ALL THE PICTURES!
The State’s First Morning
Pictorial.
Largely increased Sales
already assured,
arrange Contracts at
present rates.
HEAD OFFICE: REGISTER NEWS-
PAPERS, LIMITED, Grenfell Street,
Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative: Eric N. Birks,
Sydney. Tel. X 5187.
Melbourne Representative: G. N.
Bednall, “Argus” Building, Mel-
bourne. Tel. F 4502.
Pen and Picture
Shadow Shows
“M o t h e r
Knows Best”
(Fox) is one of
the best long
talkies this
Showman li a s
seen so far. The
story is a bit
slushy, but quite
passable otherwise. A New York slum girl
who owns a mother of the kind specially
made for managing anything from a pot of
stew to an Olympic team, overcomes a deep-
seated nervousness and gradually gets to a
place in New York vaudeville. Then she
MADGE BELLAMY, of
“Mother Knows Best.”
falls in love
with a vaude-
ville lad, but
mothQr, as is
not unusual,
knows best;
tli e affair
lizzies out, and
the girl, be-
coming more
and more fam-
ished for what
she lost, makes
her way to
the top of the
world’s theat-
rical ladder.
Meanwhile
there have
been two or
three meetings
with the lover,
all of them
s u c c e s sfully
nullified by
m a. Then
war breaks,
and the girl,
who has been amazingly patient for her kind,
finds out that her lover is in the scrap, and
against ma’s orders insists on seeing him.
Mars, however, helps ma; the couple never
meet, and the girl carries a highly-gilded
name and a feeling of emptiness back to New
York. It is a much stronger and more con-
vincing ending than the movie-makers
ordinarily allow a picture to have, and there
is some excellent acting in the piece, especi-
ally by Louise Dresser, who takes the part
of ma. Madge Bellamy is the girl. As a
talkie the picture is defective; not yet can
an ordinary-length drama be as effectively
presented with the talkie apparatus as the
silent screen can do it.
“The Golden Clown” (Bromhead-Nordisk)
is an Anglo-Swedish undertaking. The Nor-
disk people 15 and even 20 years ago were
making wonderfully artistic films, and were
on the way to becoming a world force in
Filmdom when the Hollywood roller broke.
The alliance with Britain gives them the
financial resources they need. The present
example is less remarkable for its story—
a modern version of the Pagliaeci theme —■
than for the acting of Gosta Ekman and
Karnia Bell. Ekman represents Joe Hig-
gins, an English waif, who, picked up by
a travelling circus, eventually becomes the
rage of Paris, which apparently reserves its
highest re-wards and official honors for suc-
cessful clowns. Nevertheless, his heart is
breaking, for his wife has departed with a
dress-designer and Joe Higgins, jun., though
the latter character has not yet made his
first bow. When the mother throws herself
into the Seine, leaving a lusty pledge of her
earliest affections, one knows what is going
to happen. Still the detail is fine. Unlike
most film actors who portray painters, sculp-
tors, poets, authors and other genii, Ekman
really looks intelligent enough to be the
great man he is supposed to be. Most of
them look talented enough to be grooms.
If all actors and actresses had the fund of
expressive actions which are at Karnia Bell’s
command the sub-titlists would be out of a
job.
After a tornado of propaganda, Melbourne
received the talkies with mixed feelings.
“The Red Dance” at the Auditorium puzzled
its listener-seers. If they had not been told
it was a talkie they would have taken it
for a good silent picture with the usual
musical accompaniment, though a trifle
mufflled, as if a deceased symphony orchestra
was trying to make itself heard from the
astral sphere. The fact that the music had
been photographed months before and was
present on the film in the shape of little
bars of light and shade was interesting but
meant nothing dramatically. Still, to hear
photographs of the King, Mussolini and Mr.
Taft speak was exciting, even if what they
uttered was what all public speakers wiil
utter on the screen for ever and ever.
The system at the Auditorium was the
movietone. Across the way at the Athe-
naeum was the vitaphone, with cine-sound
presentation, _ whatever that means. Tech-
nically, it is inferior to the movietone, being
merely a super-gramophone coupled to the
picture. Dramatically and musically, how-
ever, it is miles ahead of it, though real
singing, real speaking and real music are
miles ahead again. “The Jazz Singer,”
the principal item, with the famous Al
Jolson in the lead, is a remarkable
achievement. Thematically it is the same old
fifteen sobful reels of mother-love, but the
use of sound doubles its dramatic resources.
The action hops from place to place in the
old familiar way and the noises follow it
breathlessly; but the eye and ear soon get
used to the absurdity and the sounds help
to make some very impressive situations.
Nevertheless, the talkie people will have
to be careful. By giving a voice to the
flat shadows on the screen they are bringing
them nearer to reality; and there are some
things. w r hen things are nearly what they
seem, that even a movie fan cannot accom-
modate his intelligence to. When, owing
to the jumping of the film, Mischa Elman
appeared standing on his own head, while
his violin still gravely interpreted Dvorak’s
“Humoreske,” the crowd roared with laughter.
The same thing in a silent picture would not
have started a ripple. Similarly, when a
pretty girl opened her mouth in a love-
scene and the voice appeared to issue from
her stomach the house giggled. Also some
of the items, when they take the form of
monks singing in a monastery, are tedious,
and will only serve to help the box-office
returns at the vaudeville theatres.
In present writer’s opinion, it is all bosh
to say, as some people are saying, that
nevermore will the Heifetzes, the Ivreislers
and the Paderewskis visit Australia —that
this music and sound is the perfect canned,
sealed and delivered margarine and quite
indistinguishable from real butter. If tens
of thousands of music-lovers in Australia
are capable of discriminating between one
grand opera company and another, as they
did with the Williamson and Fuller operas
last season, they are not likely to be even
temporarily satisfied with listening to a
gramophoned Backhaus (excellent as that
may be) even if an agitated photo of the
player and a wobbly snap of his instrument
arc thrown in with it.
No! The verdict is that the talkies are
a great success and should make pots of
money for their promoters, God bless ’em!
But they aren’t likely to damage anything
permanently except their immediate rival, the
silent movie, and perhaps the eardrums of
the fans.
The Inky Way
“Lao-dah”: The story that the Australian
authoress who has written the book of the
year in England was refused admittance to
her old school, the Presbyterian Ladies’ Col-
lege, in 1910, because she had ridiculed the
institution in one of her novels is questioned
in Melbourne, though attributed to “Henry
Handel” Richardson herself. Nobody can
remember the 1910 incident, but a retired
schoolmistress remembers her precocious
pupil and also the complaincd-of volume. It
is “The Getting of Wisdom,” and the only
teacher who does not figure in it, dubiously
arrayed in the clothes of a satiric fancy, is
the mistress in question. Ettie Richardson,
to give the writer her real name, left the
P.L.C. in 1899 quietly, but a legend that she
was turned out is already accumulating in
London, according to the cables.
The Melbourne Herald group, though it
bought both Register and Advertiser, does
not propose to make the two cos. Victorian.
It will hold on to enough shares to make
it greatly interested in each co.’s fortunes,
but so many have been or will be available
for South Aus. that both cos. will feel
quite at home in their home city. The new
Register will be the same handy size as the
other pictorials; the Advertiser will of
course remain a broadsheet.
“J.1LM.8.”: Robert Donald Mackay, dead
in Bendigo, aged 74, was the eldest son of
the Angus Mackay who was principal pro-
prietor of Bendigo Advertiser from 1555
until 18S6, and on his father’s death became
senior proprietor himself until the amalga-
mation with the Independent in 1918,
Robert Mackay was trained on the Adver-
tiser, but for years was maanger of the
Riverina Herald. He was an able journalist
and a keen student of politics, but did not
emulate his sire, who was Bendigo’s Assembly
member for many years.
“F. Street”: Vyvyan Ilarmsworth, brother
of Lord Rothermere, lacks the family flair
for journalism, if one can judge by his state-
ment in the S. M. Herald that “obscurities
from England who get publicity in Aus-
tralia by making unfavorable comments on
the ways of Australians are not heard of
in the British press.” In point of fact they
are, and it is inevitable that they should
be. A returned traveller who told London
that Australia was like England would arouse
no interest at all. His report would begin
to have a news-value if he merely said
darkly that there was a difference. If he
came out flat-footed with the announcement
that Australians were unique as regards
boorish manners and damnable accents, his
offering would represent news of the utmost
value. Alec Waugh recognised this w r hen he
attacked the employees of the hotels he had
stayed at here, and so did Dame Margaret
Greville when she drew unfavorable com-
parisons between the leaders of “Society”
and the “charming and natural men employed
on the trams.” Dame Margaret got columns
in London Daily News and other papers
for her affirmations and denials in this
connection, and Waugh did nearly as well.
Having spent a couple of years in Fleet-
street I fail to remember one unfavorable
criticism of Australians which was not
rushed by news-editors during the period
as eagerly as hectic stories of droughts or
strikes.
“Hugh Stone”: Gone where there’s no
call for “copy,” Joe Plowright, a Ma State
Inky Wayfarer of a school that is passing
away. Born in the Monaro country 70
years ago. he learned typesnatcliing on the
Bombala Times, and spent the greater part
of a busy life, founding and selling news-
papers. He owned and controlled organs of
opinion in Murrumburrah, Braidwood, Mul-
lumbimby. Delegate, Wyong and Nyngan;
and he clung to the Nyngan Observer, for
he had great faith in western N. S. Wales.
Joe Plowright was one of those old-timers
who thought no job well done unless it was
hand-set.
“ Ine’s ’111”: The people of Cunderdin
(W.A.) claim the youngest editor in Aus-
tralia. He took charge of the local paper
when he was only 18, and besides being til-
editorial “we” he is manager, chief of staff
printer and canvasser. The staff is aged 16.
“W.P.8.”: It is a sign of the times (also
of the Sun) that Melbourne Argus is now
issuing a Saturday “camera supplement”
not the eight-col. insert double to be expected
of the mother of papers, but a separate little
12-page tabloid with pages of pictures a
flapper serial, and short and lightsome
articles by Australian contributors. It is
not yet carrying insurance coupons, find-the-
ad. prizes, guessing competitions and a racing
lottery, but you never can tell.


Its a great tonic for the man at the wheel
“Quite early in my career a famous athlete advised
me to take CLEMENTS TONIC as a training
stimulant, and I have continued taking it regularly
ever since. I have found it to be a wonderful
nerve food and stamina builder, and a safeguard
against chills. I advised the many successful
athletes I have coached to also take CLEMENTS
TONIC, and three of them reached world’s cham-
pion class. These men would not be without a
bottle of CLEMENTS TONIC handy any more
than I would myself.”
L V. Mudge, Milduro.
“AS A TRAVELLER visiting the
various homes in my work and busi-
ness I got wet and contracted a bad
cold and influenza, which left me in
a weak state of health. CLEMENTS
TONIC was taken and in a very
short time I was recuperated back to
health again. Also in training for
boxing I have used this medicine
when in a low state of health and
consider this Tonic a wonderful body
builder. Use this testimonial as you
so desire*
D. THOMPSON, R edfern.
è
m
m
v‘ v '• : .:•• • :
SS»
*
3.H.P.29
“BILL” LITZSIMMONDS
thinks CLEMENTS TONIC
a great thing for the man at
the wheel.
“Some time prior to the record drive I
suffered a nervous breakdown, being so bad
that I could not work tor four months.
Nothing did me any good until a friend
advised CLEMENTS TONIC. From the
first bottle I felt improved and was soon
quite myself again, thanks solely to
CLEMENTS TONIC.
After my experience with CLEMENTS
TONIC, I can say without hesitation that
it is a great thing for the man at the wheel,
particularly under trying conditions. I have
found it a great thing to steady the nerves,
strengthen the tissues and stop fatigue on
a long trying car run.”
“BILL” FITZSIMMONDS, Mildura.
RHEUMATISM, LUMBAGO
CHRONIC BACKACHE
é
KIDNEY TROUBLE IS POISONING YOUR SYSTEM
ARE YOU “WORN-OUT,” ALWAYS TIRED, WEAK, LACKING VIGOUR AND
VITALITY, “TOO-OLD”?—READ THESE IMPORTANT FACTS.
The majority of men and women who complain
of constant dreadful pains in the back, joints and
muscles, headache, irritableness, loss of vigor, fail to
realise that the seat of their trouble lies in the
Kidneys. The kidneys are the most vital of all bodily
organs. On them depends the purity of the blood,
and consequently the strength or weakness of nerves
and muscles. When the kidneys fail, poisons and
harmful bacteria accumulate in the blood which
indirectly cause the pain. Nerves become frayed and
irritated. No wonder you are often weak and dizzy.
What is the good of “doping” the system with
so-called tonics? Why weaken the body with purging
salts when the only possible means of re-establishing
health and vigour is to restore the kidneys to healthy
action?
HERE IS SOUND ADVICE.
Do you know thousands of people have found that
by taking a short course of treatment with De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills they have enjoyed a new lease
of life? Men and women once crippled with pain, those
actually bedridden, have once again enjoyed splendid
vigour and vitality. This famous household remedy sells
by millions of bottles the world over. Why not get a
supply of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills from
your chemist to-day?
That “De Witt’s” will banish the pain and the cause
of Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago and conquer bodily
weakness and nervous exhaustion is proved by the
thousands of letters received from those, in many cases
bedridden, hospital-rejected, but now in robust health,
thanks to “De Witt’s.” Here are iust two letters from
many thousands.
A WOMAN’S EVIDENCE.
Mrs. Mary Stewart, 52 Hargraves Street, .Paddington, N. S. Wales, says:
“Six months ago I was completely doubled up with lumbago, suffering intense discom-
fort and pain. I loas then advised to try Be Witt’s Kidney, and Bladder Pills, which had
been recommended to a friend of mine. Their effect was like magic, for I felt better after
only a few pills, and before I had finished one bottle my aches and pains had vanished
and since then I have had no return of the trouble. I am very thankful, and have told
many other people about, ‘Dc Witt’s.’ ”
BETTER AFTER FIRST BOTTLE.
Mr. George Mclldowie, 62 Falconer Street, North Fitzroy, Victoria, says:—
“I suffered for years with a bad backache and painful rheumatism. At times l
had to leave my work, the trouble was so bad. The pains in my back were intense. I
was recommended by a friend to try Dc Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills, and before
finishing the first bottle I felt better, and find walking a pleasure, and 1 am very
thankful.”
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are safe and certain at all times. Go to your
chemist now and secure a 3/6 or 6/6 supply of this invaluable liealth-bringer. ims
scientific preparation will do you good from the very first dose. In 24 hours you wm
see their action and realise they are acting directly on the seat of your trouble, ent
kidneys. Get your supply of “De Witt’s” to-day and get health as thousands of others
have done.
The testimony of one-time sufferers makes us
confident in the statement “there is nothing so
good as De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills.”
Cheaper remedies there may be. There are
certainly none that bear so strong a guarantee
as our 40-year remedy. For your own sake,
refuse all substitutes. Ask for and see you get
De Witt’s —the remedy with the definite
guarantee to show results.
«P^
<s*^
<***'
*<&■
-s®
■***
«<>^
g^.fJ'S
W/Jt'
warn
mr
£5l?
... 3®^
Jo 8.,»-,. - . ,
3^-
>
'tdpf+'/ll&sjr
rmKIFV
rf°’
IDER
THE REMEDY THAT SHOWS RESULTS IN 24 HOURS


MART ELL'S
BRANDY
Stixnxhfbi Gse 6 Quxjlxfif
(JJL cnseA tAz 10o\dd
*
For They are Jolly Good Fellows.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
d FsrH*s
SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
And so say all of us.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON. [l
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Despite the fact that Sol Green had accep-
ted for Gothic, the C. F. Orr Stakes —a mile
w.f.a. affair with penalties—attracted a
high-class field at Williamstown on Saturday.
Greenline was saddled up and was backed
at sevens ; last year’s winner Sailing Home,
Highland, Maple and The Banker were also
in- the. field, . though unsupported. Gothic
was sto 1 on. Slow to leave the machine
in the William Reid Stakes at the Valley,
he was first away on this occasion, but Cairns
pulled him in behind Greenline and Sailing
Home until it was time to put on the pace.
That happened, in his judgment, about half a
furlong from home, and, cutting down Sail-
ing Home in a flash, the champion went on
to win by a lengtn and three-quarters from
Ned O’Dwyer’s stallion, who ran a good race,
with The Banker about the same distance
away. The Banker’s finishing run was the
talk of the course. Greenline, on the other
hand, was fading at the finish, but Syd-
ney people know he is no miler. Gothic, who,
despite his weight, is one of the favorites for
the Newmarket, ran the distance in lmin.
40sec. He galloped as brilliantly as ever he
did.
There were several horses with Australian
Cup prospects in the Wyndham Handicap.
Impartial, who had won his previous two
races in runaway fashion, was a strong order
at 9 to 4, after fours had been offered, but
he failed to stay. Ticli Wilson tried to
steal the race on Manacre (12 to 1). who
was 12 lengths clear six furlongs from home,
but Mondiaga caught him as lie struggled
into the straight, and, drawing away in the
run home, won by four lengths from Pitoota
(7 to 1), one of Ben Cliaffey’s lot, who
finished particularly well; Manacre was a
length and a half further back. Mondiaga
ran second to Nawallah in the Moonee Valley
Cup. He is a four-year-old chestnut gelding
by Seremond —Mallaig (dam of Oranian, a
good horse at Randwick a few seasons ago),
and is trained by Ernie McKeou for T. M.
Burke, whose string has not been very much
in the limelight lately. Mondiaga has 7st. 41b.
in the Australian Cup, 121 b. less than lie
won with at Williamstown, and looks like
being a popular fancy; still, his breeding
hardly suggests stamina. The time was
pretty fair —2min. 20sec.
The Sydney filly Figure, in whom Wren
is popularly supposed to have an interest,
heat a big field brilliantly in the Marine
Handicap. Seven to one in the betting,
she got away first:, despite a bad marble,
and was never headed, winning very easily
from Day Dreamer (25 to 1) and Greener
(t> to 1). Shi- carried 7st- 131 b more
than her Oakleigh Plate weight—and left
the six furlongs behind in the course-record
time of lmin. 12isec.
NO OTHER NAME FOR IT.
WIFE (who has caught his last remark ): “John, how shocking!"
BUNKERED PADRE ( ex-A.I.F .): “My oath, its a fair cow."
The Oakleigh Plate is always hard to pick,
and there are shrewd punters who never bet
on it. Gothic (lOst. 121 b.) will not start,
and Greenline (iOst. 51b.) looks to have too
much weight. Zanibar (Bst. 181 b.), Greener
(Sst. 21b.) and Harry Gavin (7st. 121 b.)
are quick beginners, but one doubts whether
they will be able to get far away from
Figure. That filly is selected to win, with
Harry Gavin and Greener next. Gothic,
with a start, looks a good thing for the St.
George’s Stakes; in his absence Black Duch-
ess may be the best proposition. For the
Bond Cup Finsbury attracts.
The going was heavy at Canterbury Park
on Saturday, and, as generally happens on
such occasions, the races were mostly pro-
cessions. The only really exciting finish was
in the Flying Handicap, wherein the Maori-
land-bred Flicker (evens), who is only a
pony, just failed to reach Lady Canberra
(20‘ to 1) ; little Parr got to work a bit too
late. He did not make the same mistake
in the Canterbury Handicap, taking his
mount Drawbridge (5 to 1) to the front
early and keeping him there. Drawbridge,
who was bred in England, was suited by
the going and the sedate pace which Parr
wangled. Second to him was Patadawii
(7 to 4), whose third successive second it
was; old Valamita (4 to 1) was a close
third.
Garrula (9 to 2), who was third to Don
Moon and Horoscope in the 1927 Doncaster,
showed a return to form in a division of the
Highweight Handicap. He drifted from C> to
2. and bookmakers were so anxious to lav
him (a few called lives) that suspicious
people thought something was wrong and
kept off him. As it happened he won in a
canter. And The Grindstone (8 to 1),
favored by a light weight, atoned for recent
failures by clearing out with the Campsie
Handicap.' He was chased home at a respect-
ful distance by Royal Sun (12 to 1) and
Spaghetti (20 to 1). both of whom will do
better when the price indicates that they
are fancied in the right quarter.
* * * *
For Warwick Farm on Saturday:—
Maiden Handicap: Nina Blankney.
Glenfiehl Handicap: Garrula ; next, Black
Douglas.
February Handicap: Valamita; next,
Speechmaker.
Min to Handicap: Lord Kennaquhair; next,
Bacagi.
* * * *
“Thormanby”: The English Court of
Appeals has just delivered a judgment of
great importance to racing men the world
over. Edgar Wallace, the novelist, refused
to pay forfeits on two of his horses entered
in races at Newmarket. The Jockey Club
sued him for the £4 involved and got a
verdict, which was the subject of appeal.
Appellant pleaded that there was no con-
tract between himself and the Jockey Club,
and. alternatively, that if there was, it was
a contract by way of gaming or wagering,
and so void under the Gamine Act. The
Court found that horse-racing was a lawful
pastime, and that a contract existed which
contained nothing dependent on gaming or
wagering. Therefore, Wallace must pay up,
with costs. The decision that a forfeit in-
curred by an owner is legally recoverable
will have far-reaching results, especially in
regard to the present rule of racing which
declares nominations to be voided by the
death of the nominator before the race. This
will probably have to be recast.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Another great crowd packed Sydney
Stadium on Saturday night, to see Fidel la
Barba (Bst. SJlb.) and South African
Willie Smith (Bst. 101 b.) in action. After
15 rounds full of exciting incidents the
Italian-American gained a hard-earned but
correct decision, which might have been re-
versed had the loser fought with more aggres-
siveness. From the beginning the sym-
pathies of a big majority of the spectators
were with Smith, and when Joe. Wallis
crowned La Barba a perfect tornado of hoot-
ing broke out and continued for a long time.
Smith often made La Barba miss by clever
back moving, stepping and ducking. But
white scoring in close with snappy uppercuts
and jolts, he was badly rattled by his
opponent's weightier blows. La Barba’s
lightning lefts to the body and over to the
head were particularly effective. In the
sixth round a hard left and right to the
jaw put the Afrikander down for nine
seconds, but he saw the round out well when
he regained his feet. A great fight between
two great little men.
* * * *
A pair of heavies held the flure at Mel-
bourne Stadium on Saturday night when
Yank Hannabery (12st 1241 b.). who hails
from the Riverina, went up against the
local lad, Don McLeod (12st. 541 b.). In
spite of his advantage in poundage the
Welshman found his opponent too smart for
him, and slipped into Slumberland in the
fourth round.
The Ins and Outs
England won the fourth Test at Adelaide
by 12 runs after a fluctuating battle that ran
curiously parallel to the Adelaide game in
1925, when, Gilligan’s men went down by 11
runs. Australia established a lirst-innings
lead of 35 runs, totalling 309, thanks to an
exceptionally stylish 104 by Jackson and
resolute batting by Ryder (03), Bradman
(40) and a’Beckett (30). White was once
more the master bowler, collecting 5 for 129
off 59 overs and keeping every batsman on
the qni rive. With Hobbs gone for a single
and Sutcliffe following for 11, Australian
tails went up. The inevitable Hammond
intervened again, and, finely aided by Jar-
dinc, ran the score of 2 for 21 to 3 for 253.
Hammond reached 177 and Jardine 98. The
partnership was a horribly dreary and un-
enterprising one, but saved the team, the
remaining batsmen, save Tate, who hit
merrily for 47, offering feeble opposition. The
innings ended at 383. Oxenham took 4 for (57
off 48 overs, his victims including Jardine,
Larwood and Tate. Woodfull (30) an 1
Jackson (3G) gave the home side a fair start
on the job of knocking off 349 to win, and
after Hendry had gone for 5, Ivippax (51)
and Ryder (87) made Australia’s prospers
much rosier. Bradman and Oxenham carried
the score to 308 for (! wickets, ti’.l the
Queenslander went at 308. Any chance of
the side winning was dashed when Bradman
was foolishly run out a few minutes later,
after a fighting knock for 58. Oldfield
(15 n. 0.) soon lost Grimmett and Blackie,
and tlie innings closed for 33(1. White again
bowled magnificently* his figures being 8 for
12(5 off 66 overs.
4! * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Australia was? almost as
delighted over the feat of young Jackson in
scoring a century in his first Test innings
in Adelaide as it would have been over win-
ning the rubber. Tin 1 19-year-oldcr from Bal-
main now joins that company of the im-
mortals which ranges from Charles Banner-
man and W. G. Grace to 11. L. Collins and
W. 11. Ponsford. Other Australians to pull
off the much-prized distinction were Harry
Graham, R. A. Duff and Roger Hartigan,
Graham doing the trick in his first match in
Australia and in England as well. In auuition
to the mighty doctor, English players who
have reached the Olympian heights are:
R. E. Foster (with 287. the highest to date),
Ranjitsinghji, George Gunn and 11. Sutcliffe.
* * # *
“Glenelg” : In spite of his dreary play in
the second innings of the Englishmen at
Adelaide, Walter Hammond has stamped
himself as one of the greatest batsmen Aus-
tralia has seen in action. Giving in the
fact that Australian _ bowling is at a low
ebb, his performance in scoring 951 runs in
one series of Test matches has never been
approached. Sutcliffe’s record of 734 in
1924-25 has gone by the board already, and
with another Test to go the Gloucester lad
looks like topping the four-figure mark for
the series. With Jardine, in the second
knock of the visitors, he helped to crack the
34-year-old record for the third wicket put
up by J- T. Brown and Albert Ward in
Melbourne.
* * * *
“AigburtH” : An un-named Australian has
been airing his views on Australian cricket
in the English press, and in contrast to the
usual individual of this type has some sen-
sible comment to. offer. He thinks the lack
of really good bowlers in the Commonwealth
has resulted in a false value being put on
many batting performances. There is no
doubt he is right, and that a good many of
our batting stars are only luminous by com-
parison. In spite of the handicap, however,
the last few weeks have afforded plenty of
evidence that there is some young blood
coming along which is capable of dealing
effectively with any bowling. It may be
added, too, that the lesson of the earlier
matches of the present Test series will pro-
duce a crop of bowlers of real ability before
the next Australian XI sets out on its travels.
(Continued on page 37.)
ART AND THE ARTLESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This was the strong of it: lie said, “Now,
look! . ,
I don’t know much about this racm game ;
I've heard a lotter talk about how crook
It is an’ all. but, blime, just the same
I like a bet. An’ if 1 only knew
The winner of this Welter (straight, you
know!)
I reckon that I’d spring a quid or two—
That’s if the odds ’re not too flamin’ low.
D’you wonder that I thought I d struck a
prize, .
A great, big hunk of manna from the skies'
“I read the sportin’ notes but, spare me days,
I clean forgot to bring the tips along,”
He said; an’ me—l'm liummin’ hymns of
praise,
An’ then I pitch it to him good an’ strong.
I didn’t say I owned this Dinlcum mare,
For these crook tales I never see the
need.
But still, from what I whispered, here an
there
lie may have gathered that I bought her
feed,
An’ maybe picked the boy they put on top,
An’ told him when to go—an' when to stop.
“I wouldn’t tell you if I didn't know
That this was something better than a
cert.”
I said. “The trainer whispers to me. ‘Joe,
If this one misses you can feed me dirt.’
An’ ‘Mug’ Magee, that’s on her, says, ‘Now,
look,
I’m game to give a written guarantee.’
An’ Briggs, the owner, says the fav’rite’s
crook,
‘An’ even if he weren't slic'd win,’ says
he.”
(I’ve often thought I’d write a great
romance,
But, mind, I did think Dinkum had a
chance.)
“It sounds all .right,” he said, “but will it
win?”
An’ “Son,” I said, “they’ll have to shut
the gates.
Just what she’ll do to this bunch is a sin,
‘Mug’ tells me; so just help yourself to
eights.
She’ll start at six to four, as like as not,
An’ then they'd still be bettin’ far too wide.
I know,” I said, “exactly what is wliat.”
But, hell, I’m hoarse before he’s satisfied.
At last he puts me out of misery,
An’ takes a nimble twenty-four to three.
Well, Dinkum did it by an easy neck
(I thought she would —that’s if they let
her go) ;
So when he breasts the books I’m right on
deck
An’ puts in for me cut, but, spare me!
“No.”
He says, “not on your life! Why should I
pay?
You only let me know what you were told!
Why, any mug could do it any day,
An’ never know if nags were hatched or
foaled.
Hell, no! There ain’t no credit, lad. in that;
You pick me one,” he said, “off your own
bat!”
QUEENSLAND.
HASEN.


ê


w-s
■ B OB
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 BOOMS.
One Minute G.P.O.
One Minute Railway Station.
One Minute Wharves.
Proprietor:
T. M. AHERN.
ë
85?
£
if,
/7*;*\ft%ftXfcXftX*iX*siftX*XWft
A % ft N \
ttVftXftXttXftXftXSNSXSNftSft’J
XftNftXftXftXftXftXliiNftXftXftX*
ft\ft\ftXftl»«XftX*iXftX*?<;ftXft*
\4\%XSiXSXSXIixexSiXmSM
k*NftNftX*XftXftXftX«XftXftX«J
JsxftXftXftXttNftXttXttXftxftXft/
'X <h x % x » x a x & x « n « s ft x • x * •<//
|Ntt.ftN*N,*XftXftX6NfcXftX**W|
\S»ft\ftX*XftXftN«X6XftV.so/
. :
.:••• ISXiStft X ft X ft Xft Xft
m
m.
sum
JLj.
mmm
\n
In two popular qualities—the
original 931 and the lower-
priced 88 quality.
IN the AERTEX wonder weave lies the secret of
the unique properties possessed by every
AERTEX garment. Clad in AERTEX your skin
breathes naturally, through the myriad air cells of
the fabric and extremes of heat or cold cannot
afFe& your bodily comfort. The most comfortable
underwear for all climatic conditions AERTEX
is a necessity in tropical countries.
Obtainable from all Hosiers, Drapers and
Outfitters. In case of difficulty apply to
Mr. H. O. S. DREW
313/315 FLINDERS LANE,
MELBOURNE, Australia.
Repres tntative of the Cellular Clothing Co.
Ltd., who supplies Wholesale Trade only.
ē
8
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
ĕ
The Ins and Outs
“Mnllvliander": They didn’t wait until a
was grey-headed before they gave
\Z a trial in Test cricket in the old days
Tack Ferris, immortal left-handed partner o
p T B Turner, was under 20. when he
was stacked up against England in Sydney
■urninst Shrewsbury’s team of ISBI, one <>t
the most powerful batting sides Australia
ever saw. The youngster took !> wickets tor
103 in the match, and if there are any more
like him lurking in the background to-day
they are earnestly adjured to come forward.
* * * *
“Methuselah II.” : All this flapdoodle about
Jackson and Bradman being the youngest
cricketers to ever play in a Test match
rouses one to the point of voluntarily attend-
ing a modern Test match—no one could go
further on the road to utter lunacy, lhe
youngest of them all. as he later became one
of the greatest, was Tom Garrett, ot JN.es.YY.,
who was IXV when he played m the fast of
all the Tests against Lily whites side ot 18 1 <•
The youthful bowler collected a couple of
wickets for 22 in the first English innings,
one of them being Harry Jupp then one of
the best of English batsmen. Y\ ith the bat,
the veteran, who is still alive and flourishing
in Sydney, made 19 n.o. and 0.
* * * *
“Straight Break”: Coincidently with the
report of the Adelaide Test match in
Sydney morning papers last Thursday,
appeared a notification that Victor T.
Trumper had passed the intermediate examin-
ation. The youth is a son of the famous
Victor, and should have cricket in his very
bones, since his mother was a sister of Jim
Kelly, who “kept” for Australia in the
golden days when Australia’s great batsman
was making cricket liistory.
* * * *
“Callan Park”: No item so idiotic in
connection with the English cricketers but
the pitcher-press hastens to elaborate it.
One of these journals recently devoted
half a column to a statement that Duck-
worth habitually inserts a piece of beef-steak
in his. gloves to deaden the shock of taking
the ball. In consequence, the Daily Blither
remarks, liis hands are “as white as those
of a girl.” The puzzling thing about it all
is why these journals make such a fuss about
Duckworth putting steak in his gloves when
they stuff their columns with tripe.
JACK RYDER, who, in spite of much
criticism, has done well for Australia
in the Tests, both as a batsman and a
captain.
“Hotham”: The incapacitation of Pons-
ford early in the Test series was regarded
as a malign stroke of fate by Australian
enthusiasts, but recent batting developments
have soothed the agony somewhat. Now the
news that his broken hand has not recovered
sufficiently to permit his playing in the last
Test in Melbourne lias been received with
comparative equanimity. Certainly the Aus-
tralian side could have done with the ic-
torian scoring machine, for the odds were
heavy against his run of low scores continu-
ing, but his absence from the team his given
new players a chance to prove themselves, of
which they have taken the fullest opportu-
nity.
* * * *
Thanks to ghastly fielding by the home
side, Victoria went near to beating Queens-
land in the Sheffield match at Brisbane,
having three wickets in hand with 45 runs
to get when time closed the game. The
Northerners won on the first innings by 90
runs, the visitors scoring 836 against 426.
Queensland’s second try realised only 224,
Ironmonger and Gamble bowling well. Vic-
toria lost 7 for 270 in the second knock. The
feature of the match was the double century
achievement bv B. A. Onyons, who notched
105 and 127.
Racquet and Bawl
“Swan” : The English tennis team closed
its Australian tour with a victory over a
combined Westralian and South Australian
team at Perth. The tourists had a clear
run, the only defeat being inflicted by the
South Australian “Gar” Hone on H. W.
Austin. R. D. Ford, the Westralian cham-
pion, was 'well off his game in both singles
and doubles.
* * * =t=
“Hotham”: Gordon Lum, the young
Chinese who was one of Victoria’s most pro-
mising players while at Scotch College and
with the Melbourne C. C. later, was showing
prominently in American tennis last season.
He -was one of the representatives of China
in the American zone play for the last Davis
Cup. and remained in the States after going
across for that fixture. His best performance
was the winning of the singles and doubles
championships of the Missouri Valley.
*,* * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The English Lawn
Tennis Association has just published a
statement of accounts calculated to make the
Australian bodies, and particularly the
N.S.W. Association, give vent to howls of
bitter envy. Surplus of assets over the £4OO
liabilities is twenty-seven thousand quid, of
which £23.000 is invested in Government
stocks. The year’s receipt's were £14,455,
including £0530 profit from Wimbledon in
1027. The present tour of the English team
which has just completed its Australian
itinerary cost £1670 to September 30. So
there is money even in amateur sport.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Dedans” : There was a flavor of the past
about the annual tourney for the Royal
Tennis championships of Australia which
were decided in the Tennis Court at Hobart
—one of the two courts of the kind south of
the Line, the other being at Melbourne. S.
Bastow won the amateur title from the
holder, C. T. Butler, after a two and a half
hours’ fight; and tennis is a battle, one call-
ing for the priinest of condition. The holder
also went down in the professional event,
the Victorian W. Stone beating Tasmanian
P. Finch, who retired with a sprained ankle
after losing two straight sets.
* * « ’*
“Brassey”: As to long-driving methods
(B. 30/l/’2l)), E. P. Kyle, of Kuala Lum-
pur (F.M.S.), who was recently in Sydney,
is a believer in the beef-and-brawn theory,
and gets a tremendously long ball with it.
Like Bettington, he is a big and powerful
man, with a full swing and a vicious follow
through, rarely taking more than the drive
and an iron shot to be up on a 600-yard hole
while in Sydney. Apart from his driving,
lie is an all-round player of note, having
been runner-up in the British amateur cham-
pionship, won by R. Harris in 1913.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: Those who have come in con-
tact at one time or another with a high-velo-
city golf ball will be interested in a recent
action for damages between two golfers, one
of whom had been hit by a ball driven by the
other. Defendant was driving off, and plain-
tiff was playing a different hole on a closely
parallel fairway. The drive was badly sliced,
and hit the plaintiff in the mouth, causing
painful injury. The driver had not called
“fore,” and counsel alleged negligence argu-
ing that unskilful play amounted to legal
negligence. Fortunately for a lot of golfers,
the Judge did not agree. He dismissed the
claim on the ground that the occurrence was
an accident and a risk of the game.
$ Jjt * #
“The Mcllaggis” : British golfing journals
have revived the controversy over the steel
club-shaft which, though solely manufac-
tured in England and in general use in
America, is banned by St. Andrews. As
patents are now petering out, it is expected
that its manufacture will become more gen-
eral, while the increasing scarcity of first-
class hickory is also helping its substitution
for the wooden shaft. St. Andrews, which
had the professional club-makers and -repair
ers in mind when it barred the steel shaft,
will probably have to give way in the near
future. It will bo a serious matter for the
average club professional in Britain, the
greater part of whose scanty income comes
from the manufacture and reconditioning
of wooden clubs and shafts. The steel shaft
practically lasts a lifetime, and, in the event
of injury, cannot be repaired without special
machinery,
•i* * * *
“Hotham”: The Royal Melbourne club
at Sandringham, one of the most dig-
nified and moss-grown in Australia, has
awakened to the fact that it is behind the
times. The recent sale of portion of the
course has necessitated a reconstruction,
and more land lias been acquired for
the purpose. In addition to the full 18-
hole course, one of nine holes! is provided
for. And the shack which has served so long
has at last been adjudged unworthy of
housing members and their friends. The
new building is to outshine anything of the
kind in Australia, the special aim of the club
being to make the premises of the Royal
Sydney at Rose Bay look like a week-end
humpy by comparison.
sic # * *
“Kowloon”: Middle Europe is not the
only corner of the earth which golf has
invaded of late years fB- 6/2/-9). The
game is raging on the China Coast, and
such centres as Shanghai, Hong Kong and
others can boast several clubs, the members
being mostly Americans, Europeans, Jap-
anese, and the like. The Number One event
of the year is the inter-city tourney be-
tween Shanghai, Hong Kong and Manila.
Further north, at Pekin, Tientsin and
Mukden, the game is being taken up with
enthusiasm by the Chinese themselves, and
we may yet see a team of Chinese golfers
tackling Australia.
* * *
“Tuscarora”: Walter Hagen has in-
vented a new golf ball. The box bears the
following inscription: “This ball hears my
name because it is built to my specifications,
because I play with it exclusively, and be-
cause it is a superior ball in every way” ;
which sounds even more like Hagen than
he is.
si: * * *
“The McHaggi3”: Yarning the other day
to a friend who had in his early youth been
reared in the heresy of cricket, I was told
that though he had honestly desired to enter
into the sacred company of golfers he had
never been able to conquer the “right hand”
grip and control of the bat which, w r hen
applied to the golf club, spells everlasting
inefficiency. Curiously enough, just after
that; conversation I came upon an opinion
of Bobby Jones to the effect that the great
mass of golfers, even those in America who
wouldn’t know a cricket bat from a canoe
paddle, contract the same fatal habit by pick-
ing up their clubs with the right hand. The
ordinary man reaches for his girl, drink,
petty cash and a million other necessities of
life with his right hand. If he aspires to
rise to empyrean heights as a golfer he must
forget all or most of the instincts which
have guided him since childhood. Only
genius can emerge triumphant from such a
test, and that explains why, though all
golfers keep the quest before them, few ever
attain to the Grail of tli e game—the plus
handicap. The left-hand player, of course,
suffers in inverse ratio.
(Continued on page 39.)


ė
ę
I
u
ě
e
The “Coleman” has many new features that will in-
terest you. Everything built in—Hot-Blast Generator
that gives full cooking heat in one minute; Swinging
Fuel Tank. Built-in Pump, Oven, Wind Baffles, and
Warming Cabinet. Cooks anything you want, any
style. Fuel is common motor gasoline. Folds up
like a suitcase. Come in and see it.
Lights and cooks in any wind. This Stove can be lit
anywhere—on a ship, on a pier, in a tent, in a home, in
a gale, in the rain. Full cooking heat can be obtained
in one minute. Coleman Camp Stove bakes, roasts,
fries, boils, toasts and grills. Easy to set up, easy to
start, easy to cook whenever you want and whatever
you* want.
When the Stove is not in use it can be folded up like
a suitcase, with everything stowed away inside.
è
é
185 William Street, Melbourne;
Victoria.
718 Harris Street, Ultimo, Sydney,
New South Wales.
31 Bower B’lcPgs, Charles St., Adelaide,
South Australia.


PERCY MARKS,
JEWELLER AND LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emeralds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
FOR ALL SPORT
BUY
THE SPORTING GLOBE
The Leading Australian Authority with the largest
staff of Sporting Experts and Special Representatives
in all States. The staff includes: —
“MUSKET” The Turf
“BAIL” Cricket
\V. S. SHARLAND Football
PAT O’HARA WOOD Tennis
,T. .1. MAHER Cycling
J. M. DILLON Coif
A. L. DOBBIE Rowing
TOM MORLEY Coursing
MAURIE COLLINS Bowls
11. C. BROOKE . . Yachting
New South Wales edition available
every Thursday, price 3d.
Buy your Leave Car
with fixed re-purchase Price
The beautifully illustrated and helpful Brochure
entitled “ Seeing Engl nd by Car” describes the
most comprehensive Car Service ever evolved—en-
abling you to have vour own Car while in England
with re-purchase price fixed before you buy it.
If riteJorJrce copy of
this brochure to-day
HENLYS
England's Leading
Motor Agents,
Devonshire House,
I i caui iy, W. i ,
andyother Tranches /-•/
in London and
Manchester.
X>
A Free Copy of “Seeing England by Car” will be
sent free on application from the offices of this
paper, 214 George Street North, Sydney.
GUYATT S
ELASTIC
STOCKINGS
SUFFERERS from Varicose
\eins, or weak swollen
limbs should take the pre-
caution of using an elastic
stocking. Easy, comfortable and
perfectly supporting. Lady
assistant always in attendance.
Write Jot free Surgical Hosiery
folder.
Dept. ”»
GUYATT & CO.
257 a George St., Sydney.
/
\
MJ
ê
In Days of Old
White hair was
all the vogue.
In modern days
grey or white
hair is consid-
ered a sign of
appr o a c h i n g
age.
It is NOT “THE
THING.”
All traces of Grey can readily be removed
by an application of
Dr. Allen’s (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
Sold at all Chemists and Stores.
Harmless, easy
to apply, can-
not be detected
Australian Agents:
DUERDIN AND
SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street,
Melbourne.
m
k
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original
ë
ē
ĕ
Car and Cycle
“Chevroford”: It is interesting to note
that Canberra and Washington, the capital
of U S A., resemble one another in having
the, largest number of cars per head of popu-
lation of their respective Can-
berra’s figures are one car to every four and
a half civil servants. There may be some
justification in her prosperity for Washing-
ton’s pre-eminence. In Canberra, wnere the
quarter-filled suburbs arc as far apait as
some towns are in Victoria, it is simply
blooming necessity.
£ * * v
“Wautali”: “Chevroford” on the danger-
ous driving of N.S.W. motorists (B.
20/12/'2B) leaves me cold. The timid cove
should come to Brisbane. Here’s it's “Kelly’s
rules,” and the service station for the van-
quished. Few drivers dream of putting out.
their cigarette-holders, let alone their hands.
If one wants to turn, well, he dashed well
turns, and the lad or lass in the following
car has to step on the brake lively. The foot-
slogger in Brisbane is convinced that he owns
the road as well as the pavement, and acts
accordingly.
* * * *
“Whizz” : The motoring world is beginning
to look forward to the two attempts shortly
to be made on the world's speed record.
Segrave’s essay, to be made at Daytona Beach,
is set down for the end of February or the
beginning of March. There is nothing definite
yet as to the date of Campbell’s spin, which
is to be made on a. dry lakebed in Cape
Colony, and there are difficulties fo overcome
which are absent from the established Daytona
track. Chief of these is the installation of an
electrical timing system, which is demanded
bv the rules. There is nothing of the type
in South Africa, nor are there any time-
keepers certificated by the International Auto-
mobile Association. Campbell, who finances
his own ventures, will have to face heavy
expense in transporting the elaborate timing
apparatus and erecting it in the Karroo,
while the course will have to be surveyed
and officially, passed. The actual attack on
the record will be only a matter of a few
seconds.
E. KELLY, skipper of the 14ft. skiff
Scandal, which won the championship
of Australia for Victoria on Port Phillip.
“Disc Clutch”: Conditions attaching to
the forthcoming trial and touring contest of
the Victorian and N.S.W.R.A. clubs be-
tween Sydney and Melbourne break new
ground, and should do much to promote the
study of mathematics among motorists.
In the owner-driver section, no one
in any way associated with buying or
selling cars or engaged in kindred enter-
prises is to compete. The now popular super-
charger is banned, and in the stock-car
section no alterations other than the tuning
of the carburetter and the adjustment of
the ignition will be permitted, while the cars
themselves must be the stock standard car
of any given year. The new formulae for the
contest lay down for the speed test that
results shall be determined on twice the
weight of the car multiplied by the time
in minutes squared, plus three divided into
the liorse-power multiplied by the cube of
the time in minutes. Acceleration test:
weight in tons multiplied by 100 and divided
into h.p., multiplied by the square of the
time in seconds. Hill climb: weight in
cwt. plus three times height of hill in feet,
divided into, length of hill in feet; result to
be divided into h.p., multiplied by time in
seconds. Points will be allotted on the basis
of 100 for the 24 hours’ trial and 250 for
the combined contest.
* * * *
“Whizz”; New stock motor-cycle records
have been claimed on behalf of a four-
cylinder Henderson on the Murcos dried lake-
beds in California. Earl Royston was the
rider, and a five-miles spin was timed
at the rate of 105.5 m.p.h. Fifty miles were
covered in 32min. (93.7 m.p.h.), 75 in 47min.
15see. (95.2 m.p.h.) and 100 in Hi. 3min. 27
sec. (94.5 m.p.h.). For a machine of this
power the times recorded are nothing won-
derful, especially as these “stock” machines
are invariably adjusted and tuned until they
are practically track-racing machines. Some
of the European track records run to close
on 125 m.p.h., while the 100-miles’ figure is
104.42 m.p.h.
Miscellaneous
“Stand Off" : The proposed itinerary for
the All Blacks shows that the side will onen
against N.S.W. in Sydney on July 6, and
meet Australia there a week later—the first
match of its' kind since 1914. Another game
against Australia will be played in Brisbane
on July 20, and a third in Sydney on the
following Saturday. Eight matches will be
played in all. including games against
Northern N.S.W. at Newcastle and Vic-
toria in Melbourne.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: In an endeavor to gain
recruits from the surf life-saving clubs, the
N.S.W. Rugby League is attempting to
organise a football competition among them,
and has had the nerve to assert that, as long
as they don't take money for playing, they
will remain amateurs, “like the University
Rugby League team.” That is a gross mis-
statement of fact. To play the League game
is a recognised act of professionalism, and
the University players, who do not dis-
tribute the club's earnings among themselves,
are as much professionals as their fellows
in the district clubs who get their per-
centage of the swag.
* # if. *
“Cash Amateur”: The N.S.W. Rugby
Union lias taken a step of doubtful wisdom
in raising the price of admission to the
stands in the Sydney. C. G. to 2s. Prices
are quite high enough already for club
matches, and the rise will not encourage
increased attendances. It does not seem
necessary either. The Union clubs have
not to maintain a paid personnel like their
League brethren, and though the Union
funds could do with augmentation there is
such a thing as being in too much of a
hurry.
s!S # * *
Jean Cocks, of Sydney (she is 14 years
old this week), put up fine performances
at the Australian women’s swimming cham-
pionships in Sydney, and gives promise of
turning out a world's champion if she is
not given too much work. Her victories
in the free-style events from' 100 to 400
metres broke all Australian records,
eclipsing not only the famous Fanny
Durack's figures but those established later
by the two American swimmerettes, Mario
Wehselau and Ethelda Bleibtrey, in this
country. The new times were: 100 metres.
73sec. (world’s best, 7050 c.) ; 200 metres,
2min. 45 2-ssec. (world’s, 2min. 40 3-ssec.) ;
300 metres, 4min. 20 3-ssec. (world’s, 4min.
12 l-ssec.). and 400 metres, smin. 55 3-5
sec. (world's, smin. 53 2-ssec.)
s|! :]t * *
“Hamer”: He came into the bar, calling
for three cheers for Jean Cocks. Apparently
he regarded her as a sort of relative because
he also lives at Bondi. In a confidential
manner he told me that Jean Cocks’s per-
formances showed what a girl could do,
although, personally, I was inclined to think
he was wrong somewhere when he asserted
that she had swum 100 yards in one
hour, six and one-fifth minutes. Still a mere
error of hours for minutes doesn't matter
when a man is buying beer. He assured me
that he lived practically next door to “lirrel
Joan” —only about three streets away. He
pointed out that no man had ever been able
to establish a woman’s swimming record,
while Jean had done so. When I left him
he was telling another total stranger that
the milkman who supplied milk to the home
of Jean Cocks served his household, and he
was so proud of this claim to fame that he
insisted upon paying twice for the drinks. I
hope the enthusiast swam home safely.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: This year’s Melbourne
Thousand at the Motordrome has gathered
together every sprinter of note in Aus-
tralasia, while the “world's sprint cham-
pionship,” inaugurated last year and won
by Queenslander Tommy Miles, is also on
the programme. The Thousand is over the
Sheffield distance of 130 yards, while the
championship includes the sprints from 75
to 220. Miles is on scratch, with Tim
Banner up a yard. Parker, the Queensland
ex-amateur champion, is on 21yds., and
Curran and A. P. Robertson, the ex-G.P.S.
sprinter who won the Thousand last year,
are both on 4yds. If Miles can win, the
clocks should have something new to tell
us.
* # * *
“Centurion”: The Lafferty Cup, awarded
for all-round athletic performance by teams
from the Royal Military Colleges of the
Empire, has been won by Australia’s own Dun-
troon for the second year in succession after
a close go with Sandhurst, the point scofles
being 11 and 10 respectively. Canada was
third with 4 points, and Woolwich, where
the gunners and engineers are trained, was
fourth with 2. Duntroon won the
rejay race, and was second in the mile, the
high jump and the 50yds. swimming. Sand-
hurst, which had won for six years in suc-
cession before going down to Duntroon in
1927, made a desperate effort to regain the
pot.
* * * *
“C. Bumpkin”: In proper hands outboard
motoring in Victoria promises to develop
into a hrst-rate sport, as exciting and more
spectacular than road motoring. Several
firms are turning out a variety of hulls, and
the State provides numerous waterways
better adapted to the craft than to open-
boat sailing. Recently L. Waters, one of the
chief enthusiasts, surprised the local fisher-
men by taking his very queer-shaped vessel
across the dreaded Rip between Queenscliff
and Point Nepean. Another Melbourne
devotee. J. B. Phillips, proposes this month
to rail his craft to Albury, travel down the
Murray, and then attempt the open water
between the mouth and Victor Harbor, in S.
Australia.
* * * *
“Blade”: Paddy Hannan, the veteran
Maoriland professional sculler, has decided
to give the game best. Paddy was no world-
beater. but was an indefatigable challenger
of every new aspirant to the world's title.
He had a mortgage on the M.L. champion-
ship, which he now relinquishes to Jim
Mason, whom he beat the other day. Ilis
attempts on the world’s title were against
Dick Arnst, at Wairoa, in 1921. and Major
Goodsell, on the Parramatta, four years
later.
* * * *
“North Quay”: Queensland may yet boat
an eight-oar for the championship at Perth
(B. 26/12/’2S). R. C. Hooper has made
an offer to raise sufficient funds to send a
crew to row for the King’s Cup if he is
granted permission to act as sole selector.
The Q.R.A. delegates’ meeting, by a small
majority, turned down the proposal the
main reason being that it was thought that
the money could not be raised. However.
Hooper is confident that he can do it. and has
forwarded a request to the secretary of the
Q.R.A.. supported by half a dozen members,
for a special general meeting to deal with
the matter. It is to be hoped he succeeds in
his purpose.


ė
ę
(BIvZjI
main
jUien
OR ANY WOOLLEN ARTICLE WITH
.Cash's names
“A Few Stitches and They’re on.’*
Actual
Size or
Style No. 2
Sold by all Best Drapers.
Write for Name Style Circular to
j. & j. cash pty. ltd
65 CUBITT STREET. RICHMOND
MELBOURNE.
Fadeless
K.S. Talbot
and
Durable
Melbourne
Chatter
Going behind at the talkies is more amus-
ing than being in front. Nobody wants to
dissect Irene Vanbrugh to see how her
various glands and things combine to produce
the stage illusion known as Belinda; nor has
any small boy ever considered the possibility
of buying the component parts in order to
manufacture a cheap home Brownlee. But,
somehow, listening to the talkies does make
you want to know how the absurd thing
works its incongruous miracles. You see an
animated photograph of a woman’s head, 40
times life size, open its enormous mouth and
beef out an aria four times as loudly as any
human voice; and although the whole thing
is perfectly insane and ridiculous, and if
you saw it in real life you would promptly
holt, somehow it does seem to have a reality
and life all of its own, like a fairy play by
Barrie.
All the other theatres have been watch-
ing and wait-
ing to see
which way the
cat would
j u m p. It
jumped to the
extent of
packed houses
at most of the
four daily ses-
sions of the
Athenmum and
Audit orium,
and as a re-
sult Stuart F.
Doyle (here
pictured)—the
State, Flin-
ders-street, is
his majestic
baby—is going
to instal the
most modern
talking appa-
ratus along
with the ancient Greek statuary. Others
are to follow.
Going behind the scenes with the talkies
is very different from going behind at what
the trade calls the legit. You actually go in
front, to begin with. No preliminary flowers
are needed. There is no swearing at the
leading man or tearing of good producer’s
hair when a ballet-girl gets out of step. If
there is any bad language at all it is when
mechanic No. 1 drops a spanner on the toe
of mechanic No. 2, and the only thing that
is likely to get out of step is the audio-
frequency current. Consequently the men
behind the talkies are not long-haired
dreamers, but hard-headed persons in blue
dungarees, nvitli voltmeters in their hands
and resolution in their aspect.
The man who is responsible for the outfit
at the Auditorium is Air. Mills, an Aus-
tralian who grew up with the talkies, so
to speak, and pinned his faith to the loqua-
cious film at a time when the rest of the
trade regarded its advent as remote as Air.
John Wren’s hopes of the vacant arch-
bishopric. Air. Alills made talkies in Aus-
tralia years ago, and one of his jobs was the
filming of the Duke’s voice. As far as this
Chatterer could gather, the thing that
causes all the trouble is a tiny cell which
can be held in the hand and which
has the faculty of converting the waves
set up by human speech into waves
of electricity. A telegraphist tells this Page
that a similar instrument has been used for
10 or 15 years to receive cablegrams in Aus-
tralia. In those days all its inventor thought
it would do was to make a telegraph instru-
ment chatter. Now it does the same to Presi-
dent Coolidge’s photograph. Is the world
progressing?
The waves of electricity vary with the
strength and weakness of the sounds, caus-
ing a small electric lamp to flicker, and that
flickering is photographed on the edge of
the film just as the actions of the speakers
are and at exactly the same time. It all
seems rather complicated but it is really
quite simple, mechanically speaking. When
a film is run off the flickerings of light on
the margin of the film are converted into
flickerings of sound, and you get Signor
Mussolini talking about Signor Alussolini.
The most painful discovery made by the
talkie makers was that noises on the screen
are seldom what they seem. A fly walking
over the microphone sounds like a procession
of freemasons, a newspaper rustled sounds
like a burst watermain, and a bucket of water
thrown over a low comedian sounds like
nothing whatever. It was found, however,
that if the newspaper was damped it sounded
like newspaper, if the falling water was
acompanied by a performance on the cymbal
it sounded like water, and as for flies, they
have been banned, along with the dulcet
voice of the producer and his megaphone.
Absolute silence now reigns in movie pre-
cincts, and any motorist who blows his horn
outside a studio is as liable to prosecution
as if he committed the offence outside a
church.
One of the most important functionaries
behind the talkies is the sound monitor. He
dodges about the theatre in communication
with headquarters ascertaining how the
acoustics are working, lie may find that
Madame Elba sounds like an asthmatic whis-
per in one corner and like a foghorn in
another. He may trace a sudden alteration
in volume to the fact that 1000 women in
the dress-circle have simultaneously removed
their furs and exposed their shoulders ; for,
as a fully-clothed adult equals nine square
feet of damping, 1000 partially nude ones
would increase the noise considerably. He
transmits his discoveries to the operator,
who, by pressing a button or two, controls a
system of sound production scattered
all over the theatre. At the Auditorium
huge horns on steel towers 21 feet high
open their capacious mouths at the back
of a screen of a special material that lets the
sound through, and looking at them it is hard
to believe that they can modulate their trans-
ports from the blare of a full symphony
orchestra to —or almost to- —the teiulerest
lamentings of Zimbalist’s fiddle.
Being a mechanical device the talkies can
be faked endlessly. Some of the stunts that
have been thought of already are remarkable,
but they are nothing to what will be done in
the future. In a film now current in Aus-
tralia recording the King delivering a public
address, the voice was stolen. Yes —just
pinched, as you might lift a pair of ladder-
proofs off Myer’s counter when the owner or
his assistants weren’t looking. Fearing that
the dynasty might be endangered if his
Majesty’s voice was badly recorded, the
authorities refused permission to make a
talkie, but agreed to the making of a silent
picture; but while one operator was cranking
his instrument on the platform another
operator was in a lorry up a back street
filming the sounds from a loud-speaker.
Voice and action were combined in the studio.
The authorities foitnd that King George’s
film voice was a good deal more easy to
listen to than those of dozens of more voluble
public men, and so the theft received official
sanction.
Still another royalty was talkied, and
when the film was developed it was discovered
that the operator had forgotten to switch
on the microphone—the picture was bone-
silent. So they rushed round and got a copy
of the speech, found a man with an heir-
apparent sort of voice and got him to read
it. The result wasn’t altogether happy, but
it passed muster. Do you know how the
Prince of X talks? Of course you don’t!
Neither do 999 people out of a thousand.
Being in the cabin while a film is pro-
jected is a ghostly experience. Valves are
glowing all around you, there is the softest
whir of machinery, the operator’s hands are
flying from one knob to another, while his
ear is cocked to the telephone. Looking-
through one of the little windows you see the
golden ray of light spraying across the pitch-
dark theatre over the heads of the invisible
audience. Sound and movement come so per-
fectly together that it is hard to believe that
the golden ray is not carrying both word and
picture. If you look long enough at the
screen you forget that Aliss Angel Tongue,
the celebrated N’York soprano, is 14 feet
high and as flat as a pancake—also that she
keeps bobbing up and down in a most curious
fashion. AVlien the picture fades out you
expect Aliss Angel to come rushing into the
wings, throw her plump arms round the
manager’s neck and scream “How did I go?’’
“Wonderful, wonderful,” shouts the manager,
kissing her excitedly. He pushes a card into
her hand. “Mr. Tom Noddy, the son of
the millionaire galvanisod-iron merchant,
wishes to take Aliss Angel to supper.” Some-
body starts nudging you. Oh, it is the
operator. He wants to put Aliss Angel away
in her box and you are sitting on it!
One of the chief snares confronting the
talkies is the censorship. With at least one
of the systems you can’t cut out part of
the speech without losing the action with
it—and vice versa. In a film now being
screened the Australian censor was shocked
by the length of the heroine’s kiss, which is
partaken of to emotional music. He cut
the osculation down by about nine-tenths, and
out went several bars of a popular love
tune. The result is that the talkie manu-
facturers are avoiding dangerous subjects,
such as murder and adultery, and concentrat-
ing on mother-love, brother-love, aunt-love
and other topics unlikely to offend even
the most elderly lady censor.
Holy Trinity Church, Kew, saw the unit-
ing of Dorothy Tourrier and Henry Bell.
The bride, on the arm of father Theodore.
was swathed in ivory silk lace over which
more lace in the form of a Limerick veil
cascaded. The bridegroom’s sister Lilian was
a primrose ’maid, and niece Wilma Tourrier
trotted behind a foam of train in a frilled
frock and Dolly Varden hat. The party
motored over from the Glenferrie homestead.
A small wedding party assembled at Alen-
zies’ to drink tea after a ceremony at Christ
Church, South Yarra. The principals were
Marjorie Ross and It. Atlee Brooks. The
bride, who was arrayed in a misty outfit as
blue as a Alay morning, is the only child
of the late Walter Ross and Airs. Ross, of
South Yarra. Doreen Gale, in a peach-
blossom frock, played the role of attendant.
The Ken 11. Lloyds, of Ivanhoe, handed
over their younger daughter, Nellie Louisa,
to the ■ husbandly care of James Laurence,
eldest son of Air. and Airs. .T. L. Anderson,
at the Church of Our Lady of Mount
Carmel. As a water nymph the little bride
has been the pride of our seaside resorts
for the last two seasons, for at diving and
swimming few excelled this nut-brown maid.
A lovely Brussels-laee veil, lent by Airs.
Edward Coffin, flowed over the tiered bridal
gown of white satin, reaching to the ankles.
Little Joyce Anderson, peering from beneath
a poke bonnet, was in charge of the train,
and Ivy Collis and Rene Anderson brides-
rnaided in pink georgette.
Over 20,000 people rolled up for Ilenley-
on-the-Maribyrnoug. If the stream only
had a pronounceable name the event might
rival the annual Henley-on-the-Yarra. Few
Melburnians know that the Alari-ete. has
just as charming reaches as the Yarra and
is just as handy to the northern suburbs as
the Yarra is to the Southern. Outboard
motor-boat racing was a feature of the func-
tion this year, and there were three decorated
houseboats trying to look like a fleet.
The familiar cry for more dressing-shed
accommodation on Alelbourne’s beaches has
been raised again owing to the arrival of a
few really hot days. But what the city
needs is not so much more dressing-shed as
more beach. The available strand is very
long, but it is also very narrow, and if the
tide would only consent to stay further out
tilings would be better. On holidays the
strip of sand is a solid mass of perspiring
humanity. As for dressing-sheds, the crowd
knows how to do without them. Flappers,
confronted with the alternative of breaking
the rules of decorum as understood in council
bylaws or going without their dip, do a
few perfectly innocuous shuffles and wriggle
out fully arrayed while a beach inspector
stands staring in blank amazement. Three
men got over their difficulty in another
fashion. Two of them held blankets round
the third member of the party while he
changed, then he took his place as a screen
supporter, and so on. One council prohibits
bathing gowns that open in front. The
gals get round that easily. They dispense
with gowns, wind towels round their middles
and knot them behind. There is nothing in
the bylaws about openings behind.
This pretty miss is 14-year-old Wini-
fred Morrison,
fo r wli o m
Alinnie Ever-
ett, her teach-
er, prophesies,
a wonderful
future as a
dance r.
Thurza Rog-
ers, who gave
he r lessons,
also thought
highly of the
y o u n g s t er’s
talent. AA 7 innie
ha s already
appeared both
p r ofessionally
and for cliarit-
ab 1 e causes
with great
success, an d
next year in-
tends going to
London to
complete her training as a classical dancer.
A Ruskin camera caught the sweet smile.
A traveller just returned from Sydney via
the Prince’s Highway is loud in his denun-
ciations of the awfulness of the hotels along
that famous road. Some of them arc awful —
especially their sanitary inconveniences. In
holiday seasons, proprietors ask you to share
a room with a perfect—or maybe, imperfect
—-stranger or else camp on the verandah, and
then he has the nerve to charge you the
usual tariff. One little habit which is creep-
ing in is to save the wages of a night
porter by leaving the front door slightly
ajar, so that the late wayfarer can find his
own accommodation. Recently a woman
motorist travelling alone found a door that
was not a door when she reached a hotel
at midnight. Not knowing that the keys of
empty rooms were left hanging in the hall,
she stumbled upstairs, poked timorously about
the pitch-dark passages and then made a bolt
into a room which she hoped might prove
empty. When she turned on the light and
found the bed untenanted she breathed a
sigh of relief. Two hours later, however,
the occupier arrived. He had been out fish-
ing, and fishing is notoriously a long and
thirsty pursuit. It isn’t altogether the pro-
prietors’ fault. Union rules make decent
service almost prohibitive.
Governor Somers and his lady have been
staying at Chatswood, the western district
home of Mary Moffat, polo at Caramut being
the attraction ; Mrs. Russell Griimvade was
included in the house-party. Guests were
billeted at every station home in the dis-
trict and each night was crammed with gay
doings. Mrs. Ernest de Little gave a dance
at Caramut House, which their Exs. atten-
ded ; Major and Mrs. Foster Rutledge, Sand-
ringham, and Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Austin,
Greenvale, were dancers.
Messages from old friends cheered the
first annual meeting of the Friendly Union
of Soldiers’ Wives and Mothers at the
Oddfellows’ Hall. Countess Novar, who
founded the union, Lady Forster and Mrs.
Selheim, the former entertainment secretary,
sent greetings. The Chauvel lady, in the
chair, had Mrs. N. G. Musther, lion, sec.,
at her right hand, and council members
Mrs. T. W. White, .Airs. Al. R. McMillan
and Mrs. Clifford Scantlebury were in
charge of arrangements.
The birth of a son to the Viscountess
Alandeville, who was Nell Stead, of Mel-
bourne, brings nearer the day when a British
duke and several earls and smaller fry will
have Australian blood in their veins. Alande-
ville, a young naval officer whom the Vic-
torian girl met while on a trip to England
via Colombo, is heir to the dukedom of
Alanchester, dating back to 1710, and with
its subsidiary titles running back to Dooms-
day Book or thereabout. The Steads date
back to at least Victoria’s Doomsday, for
one Stead, with his partner Cowie, took tip
the first squattage where the city of Geelong
now is, and Cowie’s Creek commemorates
the fact.
Fritz Hart and Mary Campbell are wear-
ing a smile of satisfaction over Marie Brem-
ner’s success in,‘■The Desert Song,” for they
were always certain that she would prove
her merit. UnJike the majority, Aliss Brem-
ner realises that skilful training is necessary
to improve a voice, so every Melbourne sea-
son sees her back at the Albert-street Con.,
working hard. The most excited person in
the theatre on Saturday evening, as floral
tributes rolled in, was her younger sister
Greta, a lately-recruited member of the
ballet, full of hopes that fortune will pre-
sently lift her into the spotlight also.
Passed over in Switzerland, Harold
Brash, of Melbourne. In the prime of life,
this six feet of athletic manhood seemed set
for a long innings. Mrs. Brash had only
lately rejoined her husband, having gone to
bring home a son entered at an English
public school, and her daughter Betty. The
lady was a daughter of the late Alfred
Hart, one of Australia’s millionaires.
It has been an open secret for long that
Stephanie Deste was consumed with a long-
ing to play “Salome.” On Sunday evening
in a small studio adjoining 3LO she intro-
duced to a small audience Wilde’s dramatic
version of the Judaean princess’s infatuation
for the unlucky prophet. The theme is a
bit morbid, but Miss Deste, swathed in a
black ar.d orange garment, got well inside
Wilde’s picture of the sinuous, exotic dancer,
and the voice, which in golden tones wooed,
pleaded and cursed, finally dying away in a
reed-like sound as the guards crushed out
her life, had a characteristically Eastern
cadence. Herbert Browne chanted the lines
of John the Baptist, C. Crane was Herod
and Reggie Ncwson scored as the young
officer.
The nurses in a Alelbourne hospital found
their own way of dealing with an over-
amorous visiting doctor recently. Tiring
of having their legs pinched, they invited
the playful one to their rooms for after-
noon tea and filled the fellow up with cream-
puffs. Then they .suddenly descended on
him, tied him to his chair —and administered
a stomach-pump.
The George Landales have leased theii
Afacedon home to the Alan Spowers for the
remainder of the summer, and will live at
Robert Knox’s Toorak home until they re-
turn to their Riverina squattage. Thu
will enable them to give shelter to Airs
Bob Lindsay and her daughter Joyce, whe
have been staying at their Westraliar
station. Their stay in this city will be o 1
brief duration, for they are boarding tin
Aorangi in March for their London home.
When the Australian Scottish Delegation
set out on its travels, Airs. J. Simpsoi
was the eldest member of this party. She
is the last of the group to return. Seventy
five years is a heavy tally to carry arounc
the world, but Airs. Simpson thinks nothing
of it. When the tour was over she decideo
to visit a Canadian cousin that she badnt
seen for 45 years. In Edinburgh she. visiter
St. Cutlibert’s, where she was christened
and the preacher was Norman AlcLean
formerly of this city.


ě
e
If any illustration in "THE
BULLETIN ” takes your fancy,
Write to the MANAGER, who will
quote you price for the original.
è


Under
Royal
'Vairant
Im -
To H.M
George V
Vintage 1920.
CM A IVI PAGM E
lecki
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company LimitsJ
SYDNEY
Champagne
'3wriesllcidsic&
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agar, ts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
J tT rn an (System Setting
é
ê
ë
FOR
RES E R V A T lONS
RING
BW 13 6 1.
7hp cen/r-e of Quppns/onc/s
cf/ s/i ngu/sfrec/ Soc/o/ Life.
cmorn
Wohl
Magnificent Ball-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience lor the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Lines.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayser
SLIPPER
HEEL
SILK HOSILERY
The smart party of last week was the
welcome-home to the Governor’s lady and
Elaine. Mrs. John Garlick, wife
of the Chief Civic Commissioner, staged it
in her rooms in the Town Hall, and at an
early hour in the afternoon any' atmosphere
there had been was stifled in georgettes and
chiffons and heflowered silks. Hundreds of
women, turned up, and when this Letter
gained a foothold at the head of the stairway
there wasn’t a crag or cranny in the corri-
dors not blooming with a summer hat above
a midsummer face- —powder wasn’t a bit of
use. The Vice-reine and Elaine stood with
Mrs. Garlick and Mrs. Gordon Bennett in
front of the big fireplace inside the lower
doorway. This was brave with pink gladioli
and dreamy with hibiscus, and made a
striking background for the diaphanous
fmcking—a sort of Rupert Bunny arrange-
ment of still-life and figures.
Lady de Chair’s pretty green hat, with its
cluster of roses, was particularly effective
above georgettes that were the color of
morning sands. A large presentation basket
of pink roses added their frail beauty to the
picture. Elaine radiated health "in caramel
browns and red roses. An ensemble of mush-
room pink georgette and lace wasi Mrs. Gar-
lick s raiment. Mrs. Gordon Bennett’s frock
wore a bolero of lace above its yellow chiffons.
Surgeon MacCormick’s lady was striking in
black and white, Mrs. Tommy Marks’s white
ensemble wore a mourning border, Mrs.
George Vivers added smooth plumage and
good looks to the assembly, and Ailsa Cullen
smiled above blue georgettes. Dame Mary
Cook and the Adrian Knox lady and Town
Clerk Layton’s wife were among the land-
marks of a crowded afternoon. And all the
Consuls' wives.
Canberra’s wide spaces looked even wider
when, like the ruler of a pygmy principality,
the Governor-General complete with car-
riage, geegaws, outriders and 20 volunteer
troopers, and a black eye, which the feathers
in the cocked hat could not conceal, opened
the eleventh Parliament of the Common-
wealth. The traditional tosh associated with
the opening might have' had a meaning and
an effect in Melbourne, or any other populous
centre, but in Canberra it was wasted on
the air, the wives of members, a few of the
Federal Capital Commission’s surplus work-
men, and as many hotel clerks and atten-
dants as could manage to beg or borrow
“briefs” from obliging M’s.P. Traditionally
the ceremony was all that could be desired.
The Usher of the Black Rod made his usual
three bows with his usual exactitude, the
G.-G.’s speech contained the usual platitudes,
which were uttered in the usual precise man-
nali. Afterwards members’ wives swapped tea
and members swapped whiskies in the new
House bar. Thd Canberra comedy having been
declared open, most of the civil servants have
renounced their allegiance to the picture
show, and from now until the end of the
session will crowd the galleries in the hope of
something turning up.
Georgians, Countess of Dudley, the octo-
genarian mother of Australia’s former G.-G.,
was considered the loveliest woman in
Europe ivhen she was married over 60
years ago. The tragedy of her life was said
to be the failure of her son to bring a
dukedom into the family. He had done well
as Viceroy in Ireland before coming to Aus-
tralia. Edward VII. was his friend and
admirer, and both the King and Queen were
devoted to her. When she left England to
visit her son in Australia it was understood
that lie had merely to carry on quietly at
his job and all would be well. Then Edward
VII. died, and with him went all the glitter-
ing Dudley prospects. The G.-G. did not
exactly emulate the English king who never
smiled again, but lie never really tried again.
Miss Annie Parkes lias passed away at
Neutral Bay with 75 years behind her. It
was a life over which clouds often drifted
heavily as an aftermath of youthful days
in which all her faithful and devoted service
had been given to her father. She had one
golden streak in her life of self-sacrifice—
tiie trip to England as secretary to old
S’enry, then at his greatest heights. Of her
presentation at Court she told this Letter
a naive story. As she advanced in the ante-
room in her unaccustomed finery, she was
greatly taken with the friendly look of a
lady who was apparently coming towards
her. “She seemed to know me,” said Miss
Parkes, “and I smiled at her. Then I saw
it was fily own reflection, with ostrich
plumes nodding, in a huge mirror!” Among
other people with whom she stayed during
that never-to-be-forgotten visit were the
Alfred Tennysons, in the Isle of Wight.
Denmark, the wonderful little butter-and-
eggs farm of Europe, has sent us the
research ship Dana, now ,at Circular Quay.
With its tiny red and white ensigD, and a
net like some gargantuan web of Fate that
stirs at its halyards (or thereabouts), it is
not so dashing as the Spanish training-ship
with tall white masts which it replaced. But,
no doubt, it strikes more terror in the under-
world when the great net is let down. Pro-
fessor Johannes Schmidt, director of the Carls-
burg Laboratory of Copenhagen, is leader of
this expedition, which will scour the oceans
of the world for two years. But the eel is
the particular siren which lures these Danish
gentlemen from their homes, and persuades
them to wander over the Indo-Pacific waters,
even as in 1021 they pursued the coy and
slippery creature through the currents and
chilly temperatures of the Atlantic. The
little party says it loves Sydney, and Sydney
has given it soft blue skies, not too ardent,
and receptions, and State luncheons. Danish
Consul Dunn and his wife hoisted the red
and white flag on the shores of Kirribilli,
and spread an afternoon shivoo for the visi-
tors in their new home, whose lawns run
cheek-by-jowl with the G.-G.’s to the water’s-
cdge.
Speaking of the Spanish training-ship, a
tragedy happened partly aboard and partly
ashore on its last day or so in Sydney. In
return for entertainment offered and
accepted, three bright young damsels, daugh-
ters of impeccable households, invited as
many young officers to join them at
Romano’s. They dined and then they
danced; and, noticing that nobody else Wore
gloves, the young officers discarded theirs.
They confessed that they had misgivings
about it, and they had more when a very
senior officer appeared in full rig. Nothing,
however, happened, and next day the dam-
sels turned up aboard to say their very last
adieus. But, alas! their gallants were not
to be found ; and when they were discovered
they were marooned on an upper deck under-
going punishment for the sin of discarding
their gloves. Young Australia decided to
climb the stair, and Pastille was far too
polite to stop them. But when the gallants
broke their bounds and came down tile steps
the fat was in the fire. A curt command,
and they were consigned to the floating equi-
valent of a dungeon, where they broiled till
the ship put to sea.
This nice-looking girl is Marcia Allen, a
daughter of Arthur of the old law firm, and
just as this
Letter was
putting on its
week’s rouge
she was walk-
in g up the
aisle of All
Sain t s' in
Woollahra to
become Mr s.
'Jo li n Bavin
and daughter-
in-law of the
State’s Pr d-
micr. John,
like his father
and his father-
in-law, fo 1-
lows the law.
T h e bride’s'
s h i mmering
white and sil-
ver was fol-
lowed by a
bevy of maids
and midgets who looked like ripe apri-
cots —the effect was achieved by two
layers of georgette, pale pink under
vellum, while a top-dressing of gold-
spotted net shed a bloom over all. The flow-
ers were exquisite. Pink roses clustering
against a tall spear of delphinium formed the
bride’s bouquet, which was held clasped in
front, conventional wise. From this a chain
of delphinium fell the length of the gleaming
dress. Yellow roses and trails of frangipanni
were the fragrant burden of the attendants.
Dayne made this picture.
Though the night was dark and stormy
and the wind was howling wild, the
ConsuhGeneral of Denmark found him-
self host of a full house on Thurs-
day night, when there was a private
screening at the King’s Hall of a film in-
tended to impress upon the outside world
the fact that the Danes have a lot to be
proud of. The Dana brought the celluloid,
and her junior officers ushed with almost
disconcerting gravity and politeness. The
Danish colony and the consular brigade made
up the bulk of the audience. Impressions of
Queen Alexandra’s country gained by this
Letter were: (1) That skirts are worn ankle-
length in that kingdom and the leg-o’-mutton
sleeve of 1900 is dying hard; (2) that
motors, save for a fugitive Lizzie or two and
a locally-made truck, are unknown, the
national vehicle being the bicycle; (3) that,
allowing for trifling differences of age and
architecture, Denmark and Maoriland have a
tremendous amount in common—very serious-
minded countries both, and much addicted, to
cows and education. Danish music in an
unending flood accompanied the whirring of
the cinema.
Many an R.A. if asked to paint a flying
possum would have to ask to be excused. If
on top of that
ho were asked
to paint a
p a d d y melon
and a platypus
he would pro-
bably have to
resign. But
Ethel Iv in g,
the girl in this
picture, ca n
paint them all.
exact in de-
tail, and the
proof of it is
in the series
of Australian
Mammal post-
cards she has
just completed
for the
Museum a
p a r t icularly
ii n e achieve-
men t. She
was responsible, too, for the snakes that coil
and writhe in the colored plates of the “Aus-
tralian Encyclopaedia,” published by Angus
and Robertson. When not busy putting
snakes and mammals into pictures for the
Museum, the observant girl is coloring clay-
casts of them for the display cases or paint-
ing backgrounds for animals. Walker Studios
made this picture of the Northern Rivers
girl, who seems to be a cross between Una
and Eve.
How thrifty is the Gaul! The other night
the officers of the French, warship Cassiopee
entertained Sydney’s brum; and blonde and
the males that pertain thereto. The chief
amusement was dancing, and the music was
supplied by a gramophone! Towards the
party’s success, however, Nature did her bit
with a lavish hand, and spread a million-
starred heaven and a satin-smooth harbor.
The decks wore gay awnings and bunting,
and strings of tricolor lights gleamed on the
guests, many of them members of the Coun-
try ,Club, which had spread a flutter in
honor of the visitors a few’ nights before.
Captain do Lanlay, the new commander of
the warship, and present Commander Cap-
tain Auverny did the honors ; the officers of
the warship turned up trumps, too. and alto-
gether the night sparked. Commander
Quick's lady supplied liqueur-green in her
softly-draped frock. France’s Vice-Consul
Bourguin was among the night’s importants;
Eieut.-Commander Condor squired fiancee
Nell Iverwin, who flew green chiffon velvets ;
two pretty Dezarnaulds sisters came in
thistledown tulles; Eieut.-Commander Austin
brought Mrs. Austin, who wore green ancl
gold; and Commander Garsia, of the Pen-
guin, and Commanders Michel and Hender-
son, of the- Marguerite and the Moresby,
helped represent our own Navy.
The" -flora tit of -Sir' Willi am - Maxwell, tha
war correspondent and newspaper man here
with the King when he came as Duke of
Cornwall and York, recalls that Australia
knows Lady Maxwell, too. Her other title
is Norah Delaney, principal boy and vaude-
ville star. She was a vivid glowing-topped
personality who attracted much newspaper
notice. From the. stage point of view her
publicity was better than her performance,
and she did not reign long on the playbill
headlines. Maxwell in his will let out a
posthumous kick or two that caused his wife
and sister to make application to the courts
to have the offending words expunged from
the records. • The courts obliged. There
appeared to be another lady in the case.
When Mrs. Torcina Radcliff Freeman felt
in her 88th year that her time was come, she
gathered her family to her bedside in
patriarchal fashion, and blessed them one by
one, and there were 07 of them, including a
great-great-grandchild. Born in O’Connell-
street, Sydney, she went as a bride of 19
to the Wyee district—the first white woman
to live there. She was proud of two things
—her pioneering and her ancestry; she
claimed descent from a famous Radcliff who
was in England before the Norman Conquest.
Felicity, Meg and Moya Coyle and their
mother are home again after 12 months
spent in the south of France, the fiords
of Norway, and the ice-fields of Switzer-
land, not forgetting England (Mrs. Coyle
is English), Ireland and Scotland. Now
the Judge can settle down secure that the
comfort of the Double Bay household won’t
be disturbed bv the wanderlust for another
12 months, anyway.
Ramona, the Elizabeth Bay home of the
Alec Markells, blazed into glory on Saturday
night to welcome home son and heir Justin.
The young man has been away for nearly
two years taking a post-graduate course, and
from the tree of. knowledge has plucked an
M.R.C.P. to decorate his own brass plate.
Before leaving Sydney he was at Prince
Alfred's, and among the hundred or so guests
gathered by mother and father and sister
Maybelle to dine and dance in his honor
were several young MacCormicks and Blaek-
burns, b'vides the leaders of America’s colony
in Sydney.
A pretty and very composed bride in pink
was Veronica Mary Conlon, of Randwick,
who became Mrs. .T. J. Gallagher, of Cliats-
wood. last week. The Sacred Heart Church
in her own suburb blessed the vows. The
bride, who looked, in her froth of tulle, like
ft delectable sundae, had father’s arm to
support her to the altar, and a ’maid sug-
gestive of pink and blue hydrangea as atten-
dant. Later the Blue Room of the Went-
worth rang with congratulations.
Dorothy Capel, a daughter of the Ernest
Capels, of Eurambeen, Barren Junction,
came to town for her linking, with Charles
Moore, of Woolwich. The bride’s white
chiffons and a Limerick-lace Veil, mellow
with years, were noted with approval even
by old, wedding-blase St. James’s; also an
armful of orchids from which a trail of
stephanotis swayed amongst the skirt’s frilled
unevenness. Two ’maids, in frilled yellow
chiffons and brown velvet and crinoline hats
and carrying yellow roses, shepherded three
sedate little bunches of yellow-frilled or-
gandie whose baby faces peeped out of
poke bonnets while one hand slipped confi-
dingly into yellow flower muffs. It was a
bridal procession to catch an artist’s fancy.
The Australia was decked for the reception.
Anglicans rolled up to the Chapter House
to say good-bye to Miss M. Best, who for
nearly seven years has been general secretary
of the Ladies’ Home Mission Union, and
when Mrs. J. C. Wright handed over a gold
clock, a gold purse and a gold badge of
membership, something very like a clerical
cheer shook the rafters. A sheaf of tawny
tiger lilies and blue delphinium as well as
many verbal bouquets were handed to the
blushing Deaconess, whose mother was a
proud guest at the party.
Social service js about to become allied to
a University diploma here, as it has been
this long time past in America. Sydney Uni.
is making a two years’ course available for
students anxious to qualify for the work,
and one afternoon last week Miss Buring
told all about it at the Girls’ Secondary
Schools Club—Miss Buring is a member of
the Board of Social Education and Training,
of which Professor Tasman Lovell is presi-
dent. Social service, it is claimed, can be
a vocation for men and women as well as
a hobby for the rich. The course covers
economics and psychology and a first-hand
knowledge of factory work and conditions;
and the visiting of gaols and hospitals will
be part of the study. But wdien several hun-
dred ardent young men and women secure
diplomas in social service, shall we be ex-
pected to supply institutions to provide them
with jobs? No such question was put to
Miss Buring, but she was crowned, so to
speak, by the club’s president, Mrs. Ham-
mond, with blue delphiniums and pink rose-
buds. Brenda Parkhill, who sprayed the
afternoon with music, had similar offerings.
Little Dr. Watson Munro, the ..champion
of the abput;to-be-mother, is a sad man these
days. Ilis wife, who has been his helper in
35 years of unselfish work, died last week.
Mrs. MVmro, who w T as a soft-voiced Irish
girl, had her training. at Prince Alfred’s,
and later assisted in founding the Crown-
street Women’s Hospital, which began 35
years ago in a terrace house in Hay-street.
Dr. Munro and Dr. James Graham were the
medical men in charge, and the wives threw
themselves into the work as whole-heartedly
as the husbands.
Knight of the feeding-bottle Truby King
came to Sydney by the Orama last week,
and an old Maorilander who had not seen
the doctor for some years realised that
with the passage of time even the indomi-
table champion of the healthy way must
show a few lines and creases. His visit
may be a forerunner of the establishment
in Sydney of a factory for Karitane food-
products. These are the preparations on
which small children are nourished under
the Plunket system, to the perfection of
which Dr. Truby has devoted his life, with
the result that Maoriland’s infant mor-
tality is the lowest in the world. Dunedin
and Wellington already have these factories,
and baby-foods are shipped all over the
world. The profits go to furthering the
activities of the Plunket system.
The Hon. Michael Scott, a son of the
third Earl of Eldon, has married again, at
the age of 50. His first wife was Cecilia
Bruton, a Sydney girl, and they lived in
Australia till shortly before the World War,
which broke up so many marriages. He
toiled chiefly in the golfing vineyard, and
was at one time amateur champion of
Victoria. They -were divorced after the
war, and she married Bruce Bairnsfather,
the artist whose “Old Bill” cartoons were
said to have been worth an army corps to
the British. The new Mrs. Scott is a pretty
American girl named Ruth Brady.


) }/r^W7
i
Kieip^
*Wki
3S
§3
v '*~
fc- mi
.V v.
m--W&
M
£5 ,-.'iS
/-W-'
>;
UKnttuPTwlHiv ■iftttv,'.
\v.»
v» ©
.7!r
>f(
ar/
" ft
r
! fe -m.
/% v : .; r j3tas&
Kf
■ r
ans
s.w
-wfc.s
ilB
r«^j
my
I/Ihuicn • ~47
c,'
s O
The first ■ class return fare
from Sydney costs only £65.
BEAUTIFUL CEYLON
ROM Colombo, the wealth
Oy and variety of scenic and
historic interest that have
made Ceylon famous is quickly ac-
cessible. The hill capital of Kandy;
ruined jungle cities, like Anurad-
hapura, once the home of teeming
millions; the great outlaw strong-
hold, perched on the Sigiriya Rock;
Nuwara Eliya in the mountains;
Mt. Lavinia on the coast. And
to reach Colombo, a glorious sea
trip in a luxurious Orient liner.
ORIENT
LINE
e
è
FOLLOW THIS SIGN FOR PROFITS
TO THE
LEIPZIG SPRING FAIR (Germany),
With GREAT ENGINEERING AND BUILDING FAIRS, Commencing March 3, 1929
Profitable to the Business Man on account of the payable agencies offering.
Profitable to the Pleasure Seeker, as the beauty of Springtime in Germany, and
the wonderment of the Fair is a sight worth seeing. Advice and Letters of Intro-
duction courteously given entirely free.
Authorised Representative: LARS G. BRUNDAHL, 6 Dailey Street, Sydney. ’Phones: 84006, MYV‘22OI.
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S : HIT THE DECK.
ROYAL: THE WRECKER.
CRITERION: THE PATSY.
PALACE: NEW BROOMS.
DICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
TH EATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
1 SHOWING NIGHTLY.
A NEW SHOW EVERY WEEK.
NELLIE BRAMLEY
COMPANY present
The highest class of play obtainable, at popular
prices.
The Royale Syncopators Chase Gloom
from Dull Intervals.
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
* MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S : THE DESERT SONG.
ROYAL:
MARGARET BANNERMAN in
VICTORY.
IY[ E W COMEDY THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
RUTH NUGENT and ALLAN BUNCE in
PIGS.
ING ’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
LEON GORDON in
THE FLYING SQUAD.
U OYT ’S D E LUXE THEATRE,
X 1 MELBOURNE.
GEORGE BANCROFT in
DOCKS OF NEW 7 YORK.
ALSO
PATSY RUTH MILLER in
SOUTH SEA LOVE.
Public Notices.
é
You can Wipe the Mort-
gage Off your House.
Possess Insurance, and effect a
saving in cost. Particulars of this
sound business investment from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CON Mi IX STREET, SYDNEY.
Bald or Grey Heads
Often Mean Failure
Many a woman has lost her charm and many a
man his job and popularity through a grey or bald
head ! Don’t let the world say you’re getting old—
keep young! Get rid of your grey hairs this easy
way; get a package of Vi-Glo from the chemist and
rub into the scalp. Vi-Glo contains a new ingredient
that wakes up the color and growth cells and quickly
brings back young, abundant hair. The cost is only
3/-, including a special shampoo—very little to stand
between you and popularity. If no chemist near,
send 3/4 to Vi-Glorient Co., Kembla Building,
Sydney, and outfit will reach you by post. Satis-
faction guaranteed. Keep young this easy way!
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will nevei be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 Georse Street, Sydney.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguised Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Sir John and Lady Goodwin went to
Stanthorpe to open the show and to stay
with the A. F. C. Rogersons at I’ikedale.
Before their departure they lunched Mrs.
T. J. Ryan, who is leaving us to live in Mel-
bourne, at Government House, and next day
Mrs. Ryan was handed a crystal rose-bowl,
and crystal and silver jug, the gifts of the
committee of the Nudgee Orphans’ Outings.
Mrs. Jack Cain gave a luncheon at Len-
non’s to enable the committee to farewell
Mrs. Ryan, who wore French grey crepe de
Chine and a grey Baku hat. A sheaf of red
roses tied with mauve ribbons was handed
to Mrs. Ryan by Mrs. F. C. Freudenbcrg,
one of the committee, who made a speech.
Mrs. J. ,T. Leahy also said pleasant things,
and Winifred Moore thanked Mrs. Ryan on
behalf of the press-women of Brisbane for
many thoughtful acts. Pink and red roses
and asparagus fern decorated the round
table in the Eastern Lounge.
His Ex. opened the new Ophthalmic Hos-
tel on the top of Eildon Hill, Windsor. The
State Government sent Dr. St. Vincent
Welch out west to inquire into the con-
dition of children’s eyes in the blight-stricken
districts, and on his advice it was decided to
establish a hospital where kiddies from the
Backblocks could have treatment not only
for the eye, but for general health. There is
accommodation for 35 children. Dr. Pattison,
president of the 8.M.A., who has been treat-
ing the eyes of bush children, said there
were enough patients to fill the hospital
twice over.
May Leahey, who was educated at Brisbane
Girls’ Grammar School, has been made a
municipal judge at Los Angeles, California.
She is a daughter of the late J. W. Leahey,
of Pimpama, and a niece of T. G. Leahey,
of Clayfield.
Canon J. B. Armstrong slipped the knot
between Dr. J. xibbott Dent, son of the
Coorparoo Dents, and Wilma, daughter of
the W. H. Buchanans, Ascot, at St. Augus-
tine’s, Hamilton, a favorite church for wed-
dings. The bride was arrayed in ivory ninon
mounted on georgette, with cascades of Chan-
tilly on the skirt and a Honiton-lace veil
with clusters of lily o’ the valley. Her bouquet
was of white and pilk roses and stephanotis.
Iris Buchanan ’maided in lemon mariette.
There was feasting afterwards at Rowe’s.
This hand-
some lady is
Mrs. Edward
Farm e r, of
T o o w oomba,
president o f
th e Southern
Division of the
Queen sland
Country
Women’s As-
sociation, who
has just been
made a Justice
of the Peace,
the first of our
women to be
invited to the
bench. She is
well known for
the deep inter-
est she takes
in all move-
ments to im-
prove the status of Woman with a capital
W, and also is an active social welfare
worker. A Dayne camera made the portrait.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
Though Cup Day was wet-blanketed by
the weather, a big crowd watched the racing
at Elwick, and many pretty frocks had to
be hurriedly covered up Avhen the plumping
showers came down. Tom Lyons’s win with
Viol was tremendously popular, and the
Governor-General presented him with the
gold cup given by Tulloch Scott amid tumul-
tuous cheers. The lawns and flower-beds,
though soaking wet, looked trim and well-
cared for. The Stonehavens, who were
accompanied by Miss Gillette and an aide,
arrived with the Government House party.
Lady Stonehaven was quietly turned out in
a pinky beige coat with low-croAvned felt hat
to match. Margaret O’Grady chose an
autumn-leaf effect in soft green and cedar
brown—green frock, brown coat and hat
combining the two. Mrs. Tom Lyons was
in grey georgette with big black picture hat.
Mrs. Trevor Eardley-Wilmot wore plain
Harris tweeds in putty shade. Alys Jones’s
ermine coat had collar and cuffs of white fox.
Mrs. Merson Cooper was in pinkish brown
with a small beige felt hat. Alfred Ash-
bolt’s lady’s straight, slim black cloth coat
was lined with sable, with one long sable
rever.
Among the festivities of Cup Week were
the official dinner at Government House on
Cup night, and the T.R.C.’s dinner on the
following night, when the Governor-General
was present. Among guests at the Govern-
ment House function were the Stonehavens,
Commander Goolden and most of the mem-
bers of the Ministry with their womenfolk.
The Jones lady’s two youngsters, Mona
and Douglas, gave one of the smartest and
most successful dances of the season at the
Continental. Youth was the dominating ele-
ment, some of the girls being sub-debs., with
partners to match, but there was a good
sprinkling of youthful matrons, too, the
hostess having four of them in her own
family, and a sister-in-law as well. Margaret
O’Grady, in lacquered romaine, was among
the dancers.
Mary, only chick of the Clyde Hamilton-?,
walked down the aisle of St. David’s Cath-
edral with Robert Gibson, of Hay (N.S.W.),
in a mediaeval gown of silver metal cloth
and a floating veil of tulle caught with
orange blossoms. She carried a sheaf of
lilies and gladioli. Three ’maids, Milba Gib-
son, Gussie White-Parsons and Kimbra
Ricards, followed in petal frocks of cylainen
georgette, and wide-brimmed hats of silver
lace. Bishop Ilay tied the knot. *
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Test cricket lias been played to an accom-
paniment of soaring temperatures and scorch-
ing sun, and feminine enthusiasts who arrived
too late for seats in the stands were done
brown. Mrs. A. ,T. MacDonald and her
daughter Betty arrived from England via
America and Sydney in time to see the end
of the game before going on to Westralia.
Mrs. Grant Mntheson and her husband came
from their station to meet them, and there
was a dinner at the Richmond with dancing
at the Glenelg Palais to follow.
The Floating Palais, by the way, having
closed its doors, is now to commit hara-kiri.
Wet rot has attacked its timbers, and re-
pairs are reckoned too expensive.
The Governor and Lady llore-Ruthven
were at the Oval on most days; with them
Justice Leo Cussen and his lady, knight
George Murray and his daughter, Pre-
mier Butler and his daughter, the Bishop cf
Adelaide and his daughters, the Lavington
Bonythons, Captain and Mrs. Verney and
Denise Daly. Mrs. Chapman and her mother-
in-law (the former is staying with the Hay-
wards) kept a keen eye on the game from the
visitors’ reserve, as did the J. F. Douglases
and Mrs. Hobbs. Figured georgettes and
crfipe de Chine accounted for 80 per cent,
of the dressing, and as relief from their
riot of color and pattern the eye lit thank-
fully on a tall slim girl in Paris-embroidered
linen and on two of the younger set in
tailored pink crfipe de Chine.
Kooyonga golfers gave a club dance for
the visitors. Mrs. Chapman was one of the
smartest figures, in pillarbox red and gold.
The S.A. Yacht Squadron took the English-
men for a day’s sailing.
For once brass buttons are taking a back-
ish seat, and in the ups-and-downs of the
Test we almost overlooked the arrival of the
Canberra. For the officers there has been a
little entertaining of the small and informal
sort, and the Navy League and Cheer-Up
workers rallied as usual to the men, for
whom there was a dance in the old Cheer-
Up Hut, with well-known war-workers to
see it through and some of our prettiest girls
for partners.
The Sangster-Phillips wedding was at St.
Matthew’s, Kensington, with subsequent
toast-drinking at the Piccadilly. The bride,
all billowing lace and tulle with a flush of
pink georgette, is a daughter of the late
R. M. and Mrs. Phillips, of East Adelaide,
and the bridegroom,, himself a medico, a son
of the late Dr. J. L. and Mrs. Sangster, of
College Park. There were two pink-clad
bridesmaids, Elspetli Phillips and Margaret
Williams.
Heat and cricket notwithstanding there
was a good muster at Clare for the races.
It is one of the most hospitable and gayest
of our country towns, with the R. E. H.
Hopes, the S. 11. Ayers, the Lister and Pat
Colleys, the Chomleys and Billy Wood to
help its revels along.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
There was little time for such a mundane
thing as sleep during the South-West Tennis
Tournament. All roads led to Bunbury dur-
ing the week-end; hotels were packed and
players and visitors had a hectic time. Play
was exceptionally fine, and the number of
entries was sufficient to make the committee
pat itself on the back. Youthful Mollie
McGragh, this year’s woman champion,
went through the junior and senior singles
without losing a set.
The visiting tennis champions from Eng-
land and Scotland enthused over our King’s
Park Courts. The emerald sward looked
like a billiard-table, and few courts can
boast the beautiful background of a forest
of gums and other bush trees. The gardens
were resplendent. There were three after-
noons of play. On the first Mrs. Jock Mor-
rison applauded her favorite game ip a
sprinkling of confetti spots on blue silk;
Jessie Mears chose embroidered poppies
upon lilac voile, and her sister Mary an
apricot embroidered voile; Dot Solomon was
in peach pink and a blue hat; Mrs. Bob
Black chose a conventional design of black
and fawn : Mildred McDougall wore biscuit
tonings: Mrs. Hampshire navy-blue; Helen
Ambrose bois-de-rose; and Mrs. Donald
Smith a cool medley of grey and green as
to gown and sunshade, and a jade hat.
At the tennis dance that wound up the
tournament, the president, Dr. Joel and
Keith McDougall, spoke words of praise and
handed over a handsome array of trophies
to the victors.
Hospitable Dr. and Mrs. Flynn trans-
formed their home into a bit of bushland
with greenery and blossoms for a dance on
another evening.
On the second day the president’s wife, Mrs.
Sinclair McGibbon, did the honors under
the gold-fringed gaily-striped umbrella on
the pavilion. Her guests included Lieut.-
Governor McMillan and his lady, she in dove-
grey georgettes ; Mrs. Reg Forbes, in a leaf-
green frock and hat; and Aide Davidson-
Houston. Mrs. McGibbon wore navy and
a red Baku hat.
Attics and cellars turned out their flags
and bunting for Geraldton Week and colored
lights glorified the town’s evenings. There
was a civic reception, soldiers’ reunions,
smoke socials and sports meetings that in-
cluded kiddies’ events. Dancing, singing and
dramatic talent had their innings at evening
sessions.
The B. L. Clarksons’ daughter Deborah
has accepted a sparkling trinket from Read
Parker, of Wilberforce. York, who to
slip a plain gold band on the same finger
in about a year’s -time.


Monday to Friday—
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
From 7.30. Minimum Charge, 10/6.
Saturday, Late Gala Night.
Special Table d’HOte Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
From 10 o’clock, Special Supper 15/-, or
A la carte, minimum, 15/-
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 to 5, 4/-. Parties of six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Jack Woods’ Ambassadors Dance
Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and Rhythm that makes dancing an
effortless pleasure.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
WEED TYRE CHAINS
Grip and hold under all
road conditions, eliminat-
ing costly delays and insur-
ing safe, positive traction .
Every motorist needs them.
Made in Regular and De
Luxe Patterns. In sizes to
fit all tyres—pneumatic or
solid.
Order from your dealer•
■
YK\
rv
asthVrJ,
4
m
m
WEED TYRE CHAINS
e
Clothes for Men
and Theit Sons
For Men of the
Saddle
The “MEXICAN”
Riding Boot
A patent Riding Boot exclusive to Pike
Brothers. Proved and preferred by
thousands of Australian stockmen. Two-
fold strapped tops make the boot grass-
proof and seed-proof. In Black Calf,
Black Wallaby or lan Calf. I
Double weight screwed soles JjLI \J
Pike Brothers
Limited
In Queen Street, Brisbane
then he had gone back to Guruwa and died
a few months afterwards.
Guruwa days were, however, brought most
acutely to jasper’s mind by an incident
which occurred a few months after he had
committed the syndicate to the first pay-
ment of £20,000, and while he was still in
the prime of his confidence. At dusk upon
one cold, wet evening Lois called him up
on the telephone, just as he was locking his
office. Her voice was distinctly excited.
“Can you come around this evening?
I do hope you can. Something very special.”
“You know I can always come,” Jasper
said.
“I wanted to make quite sure of you.
You’re such a hatefully busy man now.
You will come?”
Jasper laughed. “I promise, Lois. But
why particularly to-night? I mean, what’s
in the wind?”
She said mysteriously: “Never you mind.
But it’s something that will please you
greatly. Oh, I’m sure of that. I can only
just keep from telling you now.”
“Do,” Jasper tempted.
“Good-bye,” she said abruptly, as though
afraid to trust her eagerness any longer.
His speculations while he drove through
the teeming rain were discovered later to
be utterly wide of the mark. Lois met him
outside her door. Her eyes were shining.
“Who do you think is inside?”
“I don’t know,” Jasper said truthfully.
But unaccountably he had suddenly a
queer premonition of gladness.
Lois gave him a little push.
“Go inside and see.”
He halted in the doorway, rubbing his
eyes at the white-haired man rising stiffly
from before the fire. A boyish lump was
in his throat.
“Mr. Hume!”
“My dear boy!”
The missioner said presently, still holding
Jasper’s hands: “You haven’t really altered,
you know. I can see the boy in the man.
But what is the silver doing on your
temples so soon?”
“Hard work and worry,” Jasper laughed.
“I’m told you’re quite the successful busi-
ness man,” Hume said.
“Oh, I’ve done pretty well. And you?
I thought you were still in New South
Wales. We’ve often talked of you, haven’t
we, Lois?”
“Often,” Lois said happily. “Jasper, Mr.
Hume is retiring from active work. He’s
taken a house at Mentone. We’re to go
and see him as soon as Mrs. Hume gets
settled down.”
“You see,” Hume explained, “one can’t
go on for ever, unfortunately. I’m getting
old, and I daresay crotchety.” He smiled
whimsically. “And so I’m retiring before
people find it out.”
He must be over sixty, Jasper thought,
studying the white, tremulous head and the
bowed shoulders. Always undersized, Hume
seemed to have shrunken still more with
the passing of the years. But his voice
was as dynamic as ever. Even the. lines of
his face were arresting. It was the face of
a man who had courage without illusion,
who sensed the truth beyond the seeming,
who fought life always as a whole. Meeting
the indomitable serenity of Hume’s spirit
one became oblivious of the weedy body
that contained it.
“The idea!” Lois exclaimed. “You couldn’t
lie crotchety if your life depended upon it.”
“You never heard me in furious argu-
ment with Jasper’s uncle,” Hume teased,
“or you wouldn’t be quite so sure. Dear
me, those arguments! I think we both en-
joyed them, none the less. Poor Hector
Martin!”
They came in time to others of the
Guruwa of old. Hume, it transpired—Lois
thought: “How like him; he never let go
of a friend in all his life!”—had news of
them all. Joe and Mrs. Joe were still alive
and well. They had a small but prosperous
business in Orange. The Harbisons, once
neighbors of Grasslands, were in the Goul-
burn Valley. Old Harbison had died soon
after the move; young Jack was married
and had a farm of his own; the youngest
girl, Nelly, was in service somewhere in
Sydney. Lars Eriksson, the giant Ice-
landic mill benchman, had been killed by
a falling spar in a New Zealand kauri
forest.
“A fine fellow, Lars,” Hume sighed. “I
wonder if you remember how fond he was
of children? None of his own. Just him-
self and that ridiculously tiny wife.”
Lois left them presently to get supper.
Hume’s kindly delicacy had made no
mention of Cora or her people. Jasper
appreciated this. But now that they were
alone he was wistfully impatient to intro-
duce her name. Hume had always had the
knack of inviting confidence.
“I suppose you’ve heard about my separa-
tion from Cora,” Jasper said, without pre-
liminary.
Hume said gently: “Just the bare facts.
Don’t say any more if it will distress you.
In that, at least, I know my Jasper. He
would never be unjust to any woman.”
“I did my best,” Jasper said. Suddenly,
overwhelmed by the supreme understand-
ing of the old man’s gaze, his restraint de-
serted him. He said, gasping: “I’ve always
wanted you to know that I did my best.
It’s... .easier when someone believes in
you I’ve never wished her anything but
but good. I’ve never wished”....
“I know that. Your heart has always
been clean, thank God. A mistake is no-
thing in itself. It’s the standing by our
mistakes and the rectifying of them that
counts us as men.”
“I can’t see....how else I could have
done”
“I often think,” Hume said meditatively,
while Jasper fought to regain his control,
“that stupidity is a more evil thing than
what we call wickedness. Wickedness fore-
warns and forearms us; but with a stupid
person we are helpless. There is no gauging
what stupidity will do. People blunder
so. And then they become resentful of
results, and so blunder the more. I re-
member Cora as a little girl. She was
always, poor child, a little stupid and sullen.
It has grown with her, to her own undoing.”
“I wonder what makes you so uncritical
of my own share in this miserable business?”
Jasper said, wondering. “I might—l mean,
you have 0n1y”....
“I see you here. And I have seen Qora.
Don’t forget that I have known you both
ever since you were wee things. I can
still judge truth in essentials.”
“You’ve seen Cora, Mr. Hume?”
“I saw her this morning,” Hume said
astonishingly. There was deep pity in his
look. “I could hardly do less. But I
could wish now that I had not. Jasper, it's
very sad.”
In the kitchen Lois was singing softly to
herself. She paused to call gaily: “Are
you getting impatient? I shan’t be long
now.”
Jasper found the gaze of the old missioner
suddenly very direct. He returned it with-
out faltering. Hume said, breaking the
short silence: “I can only say, God bless
you. Jasper, don’t try to understand; just
accept. Nothing in life is without the
significance of the Almighty. Sometime
somewhere We can only keep on
playing the game to the very end.”
Hume came to tojvn but seldom. Apart
from the fact, as he often explained, of
his cordial dislike of the city’s uproar, Mrs.
Hume was now more or less an invalid, and
was apt to be depressed if he were long
absent from her.
Jasper went to see them as often as he
could escape his affairs. Occasionally he
was able to take Lois with him, but gener-
ally he made the trip alone. He was always
glad now of opportunity to rest his growing
irritability and unease upon the quiet assur-
ance of Hume’s philosophy. His head was
troubling him a great deal. He said nothing
of this, however, to anyone. He told him-
self fretfully that whatever the cause it
would pass; that there was'no need to make
a fuss over a trifle of ill-health. Yet many
features of this occasioned him a sharp
concern. He was losing weight. He slept
less and less well. His memory, too, was
becoming faulty. He caught himself mak-
ing quite absurd mistakes. It was necessary
constantly to keep watch upon himself;
this, in itself, brought extra strain.
Music was his most frequent refuge. It
had become a settled understanding—
though how arrived at Jasper never clearly
discerned—that Lois should spend most of
their time together in the evenings play-
ing to him. Sometimes he would start
from dozing to see her eyes fixed anxiously
on him; but she seldom remarked upon liis
tiredness. Once she excused herself hur-
riedly and left the room. When she re-
turned, after a long time, her cheeks were
flushed, and her eyelids appeared swollen,
as though she had been crying. She ex-
plained to his concerned queiy that it was
merely that she was not feeling very well.
She sat down again to the piano and played
a riotous fox-trot; the kind of thing she
frankly detested. Jasper had never known
her mood to be quite so reckless.
He asked stupidly, steadying himself
against the stabbing pain in his head:
“You’re not worrying because you decided
not to study abroad, are you? Or because
Ronald’s painting of you fell flat?”
“Don’t be absurd. Poor Ron, he was so
disappointed. His language was revolu-
tionary. But he’s back to normal long ago.
Did you know he was trying again for the
Prize this year? He’s painting Betty Pole-
Bug le .” .
Jasper managed a grin. “I thought the
wind blew that way. Aren’t you heart-
broken?”
“You know perfectly well,” Lois reproved,
slightly pink, “that Ronald thinks himself in
love with every girl. At least, he did once.
But I really believe he’s serious with
Betty. He couldn’t do better. She’s a
sweet girl, even if she does scorn her
mother’s hygienics.”
Quite often Jasper discussed his affairs.
He said one night, in reply to Lois’s in-
voluntary exclaiming at sight of his haggard
face: “I’ve had a thick time in the city.
They’re always trying to trip me. But I’m
damned if they shall.”
This was one of the rare times when
she could not avoid speaking about his
health. She said fiercely: “I can’t under-
stand what you are dreaming of to tire
yourself so. I have no patience with you,
Jasper. Why don’t you lie back and rest
a little? Or is it that you’re afraid the
money will run away?”
“You needn’t sneer,” Jasper retorted
wearily. “I’d let up if I could; but I dare
not, just yet. I’m in pretty deeply with
some tin shares. They’re doing all right,
but the market wants watching. There’ve
been some ugly rumors lately.”
Lois shrugged hopelessly. She thought:
“If I could only be of more use to him!
If I could only trust myself, trust him,
enough to hold him in reality against his
illness. But I can’t, I can’t. We must each
grin and bear it, each in our own way
and it isn’t even as though we both faced
the same barrier.” She said, blinking the
tears from her eyes: “But I thought you
did not like dabbling in shares? You’ve
always said so.”
“I know. But this is a good thing. It
was passed along to me as an absolute
winner. Look here, it’s got to be a winner.
I’ve put pretty well all I’ve got into the
thing.”
“Isn’t that rather risky?” Lois asked. All
at once she felt frightened, as though her
mind had leaped ahead to discover the
truth of what she had said. “All you’ve
got, Jasper?”
Jasper only stared at her. She noted
his drawn brows and the queer white marks
about his nostrils, and she wondered un-
happily. She could not know that his
thought had stumbled into one of the all
too frequent lapses which were terrify inn
him of late—frightful chasms in which he
groped without meaning or understanding;
inky voids that engulfed his mind almost
entirely.
She called sharply: “Jasper, are you ill?”
He fought himself out of the pit. “No.
What did you say? No, of course I’m
not ill. I’m tired. That’s all. I’m tired.
Tell me what you said.”
“I forget.” Lois was panting a little her-
self. She had thought for a second of
agony that perhaps he was dying—his eyes
had held no life. “Wait. I remember
now. I said, isn’t it very risky to put all
you have into those shares?”
“You see,” he tried to explain, “I expect
I’ll have to stand the whole racket of
meeting the next instalment on that city
deal—the one that Ronald and the rest of
them came in on. It looks like it, anyhow.
I’ve got to raise £20,000 inside a few weeks.
Unless the others can manage. I’ll get them
together and see.”
“And if you can’t meet it—the instal-
ment?”
Jasper’s confidence was returning. “Oh.
we’ll meet it right enough. If we don’t
we’ll lose the money we’ve paid. I’m
counting on the tin to pull me out. It’s
as good as gold. I could sell now and come
out more than square, but they’re climbing,
and it’s time enough just before the other
deal is due.” He added, with a hard
laugh: “More money for Cora, eh? Well,
why not? She can’t be let starve, you
know.”
Lois said quietly: “That doesn’t sound
like you.”
“Doesn’t it? It sounds like Cora, any-
how. Lois, play something anything....
I don’t care what it is.”
She played Handel’s exquisite “Ombra
Mai Fu.”
It was satire of the most abominable
kind, Jasper told himself, sitting helpless
by Cora’s bedside barely a week later,
that the echoes of Handel’s tranquil
triumphing should start to life amid the
chaos of his thought.
Someone, it seemed, had recognised her,
when they had dragged her broken, but still
living, body from under a car. They had
’phoned him from the hospital. They said
that she must have become bewildered sud-
denly in the face of the teeming traffic;
that she had been seen to stand still and
throw up her hands, as if trying desperately
to stem the horror of realisation. The car
had thrown her heavily and had dragged
her for some yards. Strangely, her face had
escaped without even a bruise or hurt of
any kind. But for her ghastly pallor one
might have supposed her to be sleeping, for
the wreckage of her body was mercifully
hidden. She lay without movement; her
face a white core within the flame of her
tumbling hair.
Jasper had taken her hand in his. There
was something horrible in the thought that
he must continue to sit there, waiting for
her to die. There had been no hope for
her from the first. It was just a matter
of time, a matter of minutes. They had
drawn a screen about the bed.
A nurse came presently and stood mutely
by Cora’s pillow. Jasper asked in a low
voice: “Has she been conscious at all? Has
she spoken?”
“No, Mr. Leith.” She was young, and
her glance at him was compassionate. “I’m
afraid—l mean, doctor thinks there isn’t
much chance that she will know anyone.”
“I see,” Jasper murmured hoarsely.
He hated himself for the utter indiffer-
ence that possessed him. He could find no
tenderness, scarcely pity. As she had lived,
so she was dying; her thought turned away
from him, sullen, unconscious to the bitter
end.
The young nurse was saying something
under her breath. Jasper turned from her to
Cora, with almost apprehension. His wife’s
eyes were open. She was looking at him.
No; not at him; through him, past him.
He saw the contracting pupils, and the
sudden turmoil of the blood at her temples,
and a nameless awe drew him to his feet.
The flame of her hair seemed to scorch him,
as she made a dreadful effort to rise. In-
voluntarily he called her name.
“Cora!”
She said, in a choked scream: “8i11!....
Bill!... .Speak to me! Bill, are you hurt
—are you hurt?”
The nurse came suddenly and caught the
dead hands in her own. Her body came
between Jasper’s stony eyes and the still
shaking bed.
He said: “It’s over she’s dead....
Cora’s dead!”
He thought: “But she died, really, that
first time—that time Roughton was killed!”
(To 6c continued.)
The Ideal.
Since aeons gone, grey ages since,
Lured on an unknown quest,
Man felt a strange, resistless urge
To journey to the West,
With restless heart and restless mind,
Through glowing lands and wan,
The track of sun and moon and star
He follows on and on.
By hopes exalted to the skies,
Down-burtheaed by dark cares,
To set of sun and set of star
And set of moon he fares;
To find some realm he knows not what
A ceaseless urge is his,
Not deeming that unreachable
The far horizon is.
Set was his course ere breath of life
Of old was breathed in him ;
A far ideal, strange and fair,
He sees with vision dim;
Though born to die, with deathless soul,
Not stayed, nor turning back,
Through age and age, till time be done,
He keeps the westward track.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


The Man with
an Axe to Grind
Benjamin Franklin
was fond of telling the
story against himself of
a man ivho wanted to
grind his axe. Going
to the yard, where he
saw young Franklin ,
he asked the boy to sho w
him how the machine
worked, kept praising
him till his axe was.
ground and then
laughed at him for
his pains.
Ci
w
>
TV
n
J
INCE the days of Franklin the
saying “an axe to &rind" hasg
become a common one. As all I
know, its use to-day is to imply some “
selfish motive in the background —
some personal interest to answer.
The man “with an axe to &rind” is
found everywhere to-day. We have
no doubt he is busy from selfish
motives in many spheres of activity.
Our concern lies chiefly in his opera-
tions against Old Court Whisky.
His is the voice that spreads prejudice
like a disease. His is the voice that
hints at weakness in your intelligence
if your patriotism or opinion &uide
you to support your own country s
products. The more successful that
product, the more vigorous his efforts
to sway you. Why?
For one obvious reason only. In tbe case of
Old Court, because its ever increasing popularity
in some way affects his personal welfare.
There can be no other reason. Old Court
Whisky cannot be criticised in quality ana
purity. If such criticism were possible, Old
Court’s lon& -standing challenge would have
been accepted lon& a&o.
Beware of the man with “an axe to
Let your own opinion £uide your actions. If you
want OLD COURT WHISKY, have OLD
COURT WHISKY. It’s the World’s Purest,
and the World’s Best Value.
V
■Q.'he Vorldt Purest’<
fH3_
's?' :«ElSc>li<
i
l^J
t
Sf
un
URAL PiSTlLUfttg-gßp 5
»*itzhi3 E . Fit** u ~


€
o
m
i
<r \
«§
isi
vMm
>s*§
6S%S
tP,
WmmM^i l
«»
MS
mm
m
mmm
wmm
■
iw
ip
r/|'?jJii
OT only in the great cities, but in the more
remote districts as well, the popularity of
Sharwood Shoes for Men and Women grows
ever greater and greater. The reason is obvious—
they are good to look at, because in cut and style they
express the last word of fashion, and they are good to
wear, materials being of the finest, and workmanship
being exceptionally thorough. For comfort and
fitting, too, they are unexcelled.
When next you need boots or shoes, ask for
Sharwood’s —wear them once and you’ll wear them
always. All better-class stores throughout Aus-
tralia will be pleased to submit the newest models
for your inspection.
Remember —the name is on every pair—be sure to
look for it! It is NOT a Sharwood unless it bears
this name!
c,®
o
FAt ITLE//
fCCIWEAR
,A
"'wv.
r*wf
£*
S
=ss*
S-E7
A"*/
✓
AA:Z«
fr
K
f jmvMkikg\
9K»£Sfe*^
-^V
Communicate with the Sharwood Service Bureau,
Melbourne, if you have any difficulty in procuring
and women’s shoes.
Abbotsford,
both men’s


è
Ask to see the latest
SHELLEY
Tea Sets - Nursery Ware
Coffee Sets- by Lucie Attwell
Morning Sets gHilda Cowham
Dainty White Domestic Ware
- China • Jelly Moulds
• U.ITISH MADI
OF ANY DIFFICULTY IN OBTAINING
WRITS TO
T. W. HI ATM C CO. LTD. Imcol
232.CLARBNCE *T.
• V o H m V : ; vv
IN CASE
é
m
7VAMARKS L™
352 GEORGE S T SYDNEY
♦ANO BRANCHES ♦
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Win. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
WIMCmSTM
TRADE MARK
CLEAR, QUIET RECEPTION—
Good batteries, like good chil-
dren, should be present but not
heard.
Winchester “B” and *‘C” bat-
teries between you and your
program insure high reception
satisfaction. Their full-sized,
uniform cells make them vital
with power. They are posi-
lively insulated to prevent 1
short circuits and to eliminate
battery noises. They give long
service with sustained high
voltage.
Put Winchester batteries in
your set tonight. Then sit back
and enjoy the program in
comfort. Moderately priced*
For sale by dealers everywhere
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS COMPANY
New Haven, Conn,
U. S. A,
11-28
m
%
Vt
&
yn*Qff m
.i«-”
w
rri^
**c°
For headache or a ‘liver,’
For nerves and stomach ills
For bile and indigestion,
Rely on
ê
TWO AT NIGHT
PUT YOU RIGHT
People with an active liver never have
these complaints. You, too, can avoid
them by taking Cockle’s Pills occasion-
ally to ensure the regular working of
your own system. They overcome
constipation, they keep the liver active
and ensure complete cleansing away
of all surplus bile which undermines
the health and causes that tired, de-
i pressed feeling. Take Cockle’s Pills
and you will need no other tonic.
Get a box to-day without fail!
Small pill, easy to take. Of all chemis
and stores 1/6 a box.
JAMES COCKLE & CO.. LTD., LONDON.
The Skull.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS’S STORY OF A MOONLIGHT MYSTERY.
I PULLED lip the blind; and the moon-
light, flooding the little room, showed ns
what we had both expected to see—the
dead man on the floor.
The face of the corpse was white, a grey,
silver white. It startled me, though I had
been prepared. I did not know that a dead
man could look so ghastly.
I waited in the doorway as the doctor
sought for the electric switch without avail.
But the glaring moonlight showed us a
single gas point, which I rather unsteadily
turned on and lit.
It did not take the doctor long to guess
the manner of the man’s death. ‘‘Yes,” he
muttered, and bent over the corpse. On
the floor was a common china cup, with a
broken handle. “Suicide, evidently !” he mur-
mured.
I did not ask what the poison was, but
it had sufficed for the poor chap on the oil-
cloth.
“I knew he was in this building; likely
enough on the top floor. I’ve seen him
about,” said the doctor. Then he turned the
body over.
“IIullo!” he said, and picked up from the
floor a little notebook. “Might have been a
bit ‘touched’ living alone like that. Any-
how, fie has left his confession, or whatever
it is. These solitary men often want to
explain or excuse themselves, though it is
very rarely that anything interesting comes
out.”
I had known him by sight, a solitary man,
middle-aged and silent. I had occasionally
Passed him walking, late at night, always
alone. He had some sort of a responsible
position in a business firm that I knew
slightly.
“Yes,” said the doctor, turning the pages
of the little notebook, “it’s a kind of diary.”
We scanned it together. One curious thing
about the writing was its irregularity. It
wandered off the ruled lines, and sometimes
it was written over the pencil-marks, oblit-
erating the first copy. This occurred in
several places.
“Something wrong with this poor chap’s
eyesight,” said the doctor. “He must have
been going blind, and apparently hadn’t
noticed his errors. Perhaps lie had failed to
see the trouble developing.”
We made ourselves as comfortable as we
could in that bare little room. It wasn’t
likely w e would be disturbed.
The diary began: “I have always hated
Dulhunty. I don’t exactly know why.”
The doctor pondered. “Dulhunty?”
I knew the name. Dulhunty was, I re-
membered, a fellow-employee with the dead
man. But what was it that I had heard
about Dulhunty? “Didn’t he disappear?”
I asked.
The doctor came to my aid. “I remem-
ber,” he said. “A couple of years ago. Matter
was never explained. Simply one day Dai-
hunty wasn’t there, and hasn’t been found
since. No suggestion of foul play or suicide.
l\o suspicions.”
The doctor eagerly turned the page. The
diary went on :
“It wasn’t that Dulhunty used to slight
me. He was an overbearing brute, but I’d
put up with much worse treatment; and,
anyhow, he was my boss. No; it wasn’t
that. It was his face. I hated his face.
When I. first saw it I could hardly keep from
shuddering. His skull was bald; his eyes
were sunken, _ as if the eyeballs had been
taken out; his prominent cheek-bones made
him almost horrible to look at. But the
worst feature was the boney skull. It got
on my nerves.
“And I was always with him in th e office.
I could never escape. There were times I
felt I could not restrain myself from smash-
ing that head. The temptation was awful; but
I knew that it would be dangerous.
. “Often I thought of murder... .But would
it be murder?....
“It would be quite easy to do away with
Dulhunty’s head. All you had to do was to
do away with Dulhunty. He couldn’t get
along without his head. Nobody could. And
once I had got his head, the rest of him did
not matter.
“So I got him in a lonely place one favor-
able night; and I found that he was quite
easy to kill.
“The joke of the whole thing was that
nobody ever suspected me. I didn’t take
any trouble about concealing the body. I
just hacked off his head, and put it in a
deep, hole, and left the rest of him, which
didn’t matter, in a patch of scrub near my
place in the suburbs.
“Of course there were policemen and de-
tectives nosing about. But I wouldn’t have
minded even if they had arrested me. I
had a splendid defence. You can’t kill a
man who is dead already. A man cannot
be alive when his skull is dead.
“And then one night I saw him again.
Saw his skull!
“I had got into the habit of going for a
stroll in the evenings toward that bit of
scrub where I had deposited the skull. I
had done the job well. Nobody was likely
to happen upon the thing; but I liked to
stroll about the neighborhood when the
nights were fine. It calmed me, took my
mind off my worries at the office. The new
boss used to treat me as though I were a
child. I put up with it; but. I often used
to laugh when I thought of what I had done
to his predecessor.
“This night I had just got to the top
of the little rise that overlooked the place,
when I noticed the dead man’s skull. I saw
it quite plain, quite round, quite bare, grey,
grinning at me. There was no body to it, no
skeleton supporting it. The skull was quite
motionless, raised about the height of a
man—floating at the height where a man's
head should be.
“I walked on, the skull floated before me.
I wondered then if his head had escaped
from the hole in the earth. I went back to
make sure; and as soon as I got into the
dark shadows the skull disappeared. But
the hole had not been disturbed.
“When I emerged from the little grove of
trees I saw it again. Every time I turned
round it was grinning at me. I passed
a few people on the way home, but they did
not seem to notice the Thing at all.
“That night when I got in it was waiting
outside my bedroom window. But it did not
try to come in. When I drew down the blind
it vanished.
“Next morning there was no sign of it.
But I knew it would come back.
“Till to-night, however, I have been free
from it for three weeks. Just now when
I pulled up the blind in my room, there it
was. It had come nearer—much nearer!
The white, bony, grinning thing was pressed
close to my window, peering in. I dared not
open the window. For the first time I began
to be afraid of the thing. It meant to get
me! That was what it was waiting for.
To-morrow night it would act!
“Well, I was ready for It. I had made
my arrangements. I had found out a trick 1o
beat it. So now I am going to drink a cup
of water with a powder in it that will do me
good %
"When it comes it will find only another
skull —and it will be mine!”
* # *
The manuscript finished. The doctor and
I looked at each other.
“Well,” he sighed, “we’d better ring u-p
the police.”
He gave a last glance at the body, and
turned out the single point of gas. The
moonlight whitened the body, with dark
shadows showing up his strained features.
The full moon struck the bleak thing on the
floor.
“Look at that moon!” the doctor said in
a whisper.
Then he picked up the manuscript, and
scanned it.
“You remember,” lie said, “my pointing
out the curious writing of the confession.
He had written it on top of his first sen-
tences, and the lines were quite uneven, strag-
gling anywhere, like the writing of a blind
man. That is evidence that lie had been
rapidly going blind. I can tell that from
other signs. His eyesight, unknown to
him, had blurred.
“And he didn’t know it. To him—poor
devil!—the full moon was a skull!”
The Pier.
Beneath a full moon, round and clear,
That lights a bay wind-blown,
Upon an old sea-rotted pier,
I stand at night alone.
Since here, years gone, I loved to stray,
When sound it was and firm,
Time has been busy, night and day,
With weather, tide and worm.
Gapped is the long, strong, hardwood deck
I trod when I was young;
Worn thin its planks, its rails a wreck,
Its piles worm-bored, weed-strung.
Though here, ’neath star and moon and sun,
Still surge the winds and tides,
No more tall ships, their voyage done,
Lie berthed along its sides.
Gone are they with their flags and sails,
Gone with their masts and spars,
Gone with their crews who told strange tales
Of questing ’neath far stars.
Though all around me silence is,
As lone I loiter here,
Time was when on a night like this
Came lovers to this pier.
Though now the hours move silently
And stillness dwells around,
A night I knew when o’er you sea
A bugle made sweet sound.
Since on this pier, this ruined pier,
On summer nights long flown,
I mused, while bygone moons shone clear,
A-many winds have blown.
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
The House with the Tiled Roof.
The house with tiles along its roof
Has dragons crouching at the doors,
That upward gaze in mild reproof,
And parquetry verandah-floors.
Bright purple flames of flowers blaze
Across the whiteness of its walls,
And dappled little garden-ways
Are glimpsed from glassy, curtained halls.
Yet here I languish touched with pain,
A wandering spirit, lost, aloof,
Because I cannot hear the rain
Beating at night upon the roof.
Outside, the dark flows vague and wide,
The world in tingling storm is drowned;
Yet lapped in peace I lie inside,
And hear no single breath of sound.
There was a tiny house I knew,
With roof of ugly, rusted tin,
And blackened, chimneys all askew,
Where, dancing out and dancing in,
The rain, with dusty odors fraught,
Would croon a song of freshened things;
And I remember how it brought
Contentment on its silver wings.
Or thinking back I sleep again
Beside the stirless billabong.
Hearing on tented roof the rain
Drum with a muffled little song.
Hearing above the grieving sky,
Above the moaning of the sea.
The black swans flute as they wing by
Unto some bourne of mystery!
So wrapped in silence, rainsong-proof
Rearing with pride each splendid room.
lb" house with tiles along the roof
Is nothing but a prison-tomb.
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.


ë
ē
Plymouth wins public
preference because of
greater value in size,
style, quality and performance —
With the arrival of the new
Chrysler-built Plymouth the search
for greater value in the lowest-
priced field is made surprisingly
simple.
All you need do is to summon up
a mental picture of the few other
cars in this field.
The way the new Plymouth stands
out from the others like a
mountain peak among hills —will
give you a start.
It Is so unmistakably in a class by
itself - - with its full size, its new and
original style, its fine quality of
finish and fittings. But the contrast
in Plymouth’s favor becomes still
more startling in the matter of
performance —in its speed, pick-up
and power, from its new “Silver-
Dome” high-compression engine
using any gasoline; its smoothness
and roadability; its safety because
of light action internal-expanding
hydraulic 4-wheel brakes.
The buyer who seeks money-value
first will inevitably choose the new
Plymouth, after observing the very
significant contrasts in greater
pound-for-pound value it presents
to every other car in the lowest-
priced field.
AUSTRALIA!* AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS
NSW.: Larke, Neave & Carter Ltd., William St., Sydney.
Vic ■ Collins Motors Pty., Ltd.. Collins Street, Melbourne.
Old. : Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
Sth. Aust.: 0. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West. Aust.: William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
Tas.: Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart.
N.Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington.
New Guinea: W. R. Carpenter & Co. Ltd., Rabaul.


ĕ
MISS MAISIE MOSS, the
Lada Jazz Drummer of
Leslie Hickey and his
Imperial Dance Orchestra,
is a Rexona Girl, and
writes as follows: "/
shall always use Rexona
Soap it is undoubtedly
the best soap for the skin
and hair.”
If you wish to preserve the freshness and beauty of your complexion, you will find there
is no substitute for Rexona Soap and water. Rexona Soap cleanses the skin and beautifies
it, because it contains all the soothing properties of Rexona itself. Rexona is the greatest
Skin Remedy of the Age, and Rexona Soap is medicated with Rexona.
This is what gives it that pure, fresh, outdoor fragrance that appeals to so many thousands
of fastidious men and women who want and insist on having only the very best and purest
soap, and one which is free from all alkali. If you would ha\’e a natuia 1 '■'""pl-xion, a
clear, faultless skin, which will stand the closest
inspection, you can never obtain this quicker or more
surely than by the daily use of Rexona Soap.
Haxona.
Soap
~for a
J and
jjeautij
m
TTTTtT'/'
m
NCAM
IMfl
•m/n,.
1
The Kerotin
Spray
Pump
is a splendid little spray pump for use
in Small Orchards and the Flower Garden.
It is made of brass throughout and fitted
with a strong iron foot.
Supplied as illustrated with Graduating o;
Ordinary Spray Nozzle. Also with Ex
tension Pipe for spraying taller trees.
Mg*
V ’
a# 2
.-I
iJCS»
V./*-»
Uf*
✓i..
«r
tr^
ttf 1
A Useful Pump
for Many Purposes
The Kerotin has also proved to be
an ideal pump for applying Lime
Wash, and disinfectants in Fowl-
houses, Cattle Sheds, etc., and for
Washing Windows, the Buggy or
the Car. Fitted with a special
nozzle it becomes a most efficient
Veterinary pump invaluable to
Breeders of Cattle, etc.
We make a wide range of Useful Sprinklers, Sprinkler Stands and other
Spraying Devices; Hose Nozzles and other Hose Fittings. Our Illustrated
Catalogue of Garden Requisites will help you to decide on the best means
to make thorough watering a certainty.
ė
Dippy-street, Dillyville.
AN AMUSING FANTASY BY RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
THE land itself may have been sane in
the beginning, but as soon as mean
landlords invaded it and made a mean
street of it with rows of cottages, built
flush to the sidewalk and staring from their
windows at the spall of the gutters and the
metal of the roadway—rows of cottages
crouched behind picket fences, their windows
shaded by verandahs like deep-set eyes be-
hind craggy brows —vanity departed for ever.
All these cottages had long herring-gutted
yards paved with basalt. The traius ran
roaring above them and the passengers had
a bird’s-eye view of yards with sprawling-
babies and flapping clothes-lines; yards with
a thousand rabbit-skins drying in them for
hat felts; yards where old people sat withering
slowly like cabbages uprooted but with earth
still clinging to them. In some of these yards
you may see the work of tenauts who try,
like Adam, to forget Hell by making gardens.
They tear up four square yards of spalls and
grow a rose and a geranium and salads.
Here and there they extract a cube of basalt
as if it were a hollow tooth, and from the
cavity two dusty sunflowers rear their yel-
low faces. The yards, being narrow, destroy
any attempt at privacy or other “uppisli-
liess,” and, being long, protract neighborly
quarrels of people and dogs. The dogs have
sixty feet of fence to snarl along on both
side’s—or one hundred and twenty feet in
all; and the women can abuse each other for
the same distance, beginning the first insult
at the kitchen and uttering the last by the
ultimate rabbit-skin at the back gate.
These weird agglomerations of dirt, old
timber, crumbling brick and galvanised-iron
—the “terraces” of Dippy-street, Dillyvilie
—do not fill all Dippy-street, though they
are a feature so tremendous that at first
glance they fill the eye. But there are
two other places—an old rambling house
standing back quite ten feet from the street
with a rood of “garden” producing one row
of cypress and a wild growth of marsh-
mallow so old that they are trees. Immedi-
ately opposite this house, “standing in its
own grounds” instead of dabbling in the
gutter as do the “terraces,” is a wooden cot-
tage built on piles, so that its verandah
is quite six feet above the street level. Here
lived an old woman and her fifty-year-old
bachelor son, who supported himself and
his mother by buying rubbish at auction sales
and miraculously extracted sustenance from
all he did not throw away. The rejecta
went to the yard and constituted a fine rat
harbor. There were perfectly valueless and
unworkable sewing-machines, garden seats
without legs, a hill of confused wire of
broken bed springs, and hundreds of rusty
bed laths standing on end and guarding
the rubbish as a forest of lances. Within
the gate was a crazy sign as painted by the
auction-hunter himself;—
J. BOBBLE.
All Kines things bort an soled.
Here was a collection of old beds that no
man might sleep on. Not one bed complete—
the side bars of a half-tester, the head-rail of
a three-quarter, the foot-rail of a double and
the inverted leg of a cot, lifting up its half-
caster towards Heaven as if it were calling
a malediction on the dealer who had torn it
from its other three legs and its happy home
in the nursery.
Every morning went forth Mr. Bobble to
his work and to his labor, and came back in
the evening bringing with him his sheaves
of bed laths, his weird .collection of brass
and iron. For almost all the day his mother,
a sharp-eyed, sharp-nosed, sliarp-chinned
woman, walked the verandah floor as if it
were a navigation bridge and made audible
and mocking comments on the passers-by,
or seated by the plaster cast of a statue,
which J. Bobble had bought with a lot of
more valuable junk, looked across to the
“house standing in its own grounds” and
stared its occupants to distraction. The
house had given great offence to Dippy-street,
and particularly great offence to mother
Bobble, because its occupants “kept them-
selves to theirselves.” They were two faded
and more than middle-aged women, sisters
who owned the house and had a very little
income—too small to let themselves live any-
where but Dippy-street. Their lives were
spent in wandering around the dusty cypress
and through the grove of giant marsh-
mallows, in sleeping, in calling each other
“dear,” and in making tea. Once a month,
in the voluminous black skirts and the “dol-
mans” and bonnets of 1875, they went to Mel-
bourne to see “our lawyer,” returning with
the month’s income to the life of isolation
that seemed impossible in that squalid, mean,
suspicious, prying street.
Mother Bobble talked of them always
viciously because they had repelled her ad-
vances. She canvassed their dress, their
aloofness, their loneliness, knew all they
thought, and said they said all she never
heard. In revenge the quiet old women used
her loud advertising powers to nickname
her the Argus. They might have called her
the Age, only that she was thin and anaemic
and had a poor circulation.
Mr. Bobble hated them too. He was bene-
volent whenever he could give away anything
he did not like. Once lie took to them a
spade without a handle and a broken axe-
head, which he described as the finest pos-
sible substitute for a wedge in the matter
of wood splitting, and the two quiet old
women thanked him —and refused the gift.
They never accepted anything except from
intimate friends, and of these they had none.
J. Bobble told his mother of the insult
and she paled with cold rage.
“Not good enough f’r ’em, J.,” she said.
“That’s it! Not good enough f’r ’em.”
“I’ll give ’em just one more charnst,” said
J. Bobble. “Jus’ one more charnst to show
they’re flesh and blood. An’ then —we’ll see.”
The “charnst” came within a week. J.
Bobble purchased with other junk two cases
of condemned pickles. There was a law to
denounce these explosive condiments as unfit
for consumption, but none to stay J. Bobble
buying them wholesale for the value of the
cases and the bottles.
J. Bobble unpacked these weapons of
offence and placed them side by side on the
kitchen table, Their chastely-printed labels
ot red and green, with a yellow gherkin and
a green onion rampant, filled J. Bobble with
an artists joy. He loved all the world, and
a great desire to forgive all his enemies
transfigured linn.
I 11 take a bottle or two to the old girls
over the road, mother.”
‘Yes, do. We'll see if their uppishness
beats us, J.
J. Bobble was not a gracious donor. He
boldly entered the dusky garden, strode
through the grove of giant marsh-mallows,
outflanked the bathroom, and pushing aside
the band of the open window of the kitchen
showed his face to the sisters who were, as
usual, “washing up’’ the everlasting tea-
cups. The female hermits screamed a little
and then clung to each other.
“ ’Skill right,” said J. Bobble. “I brought
y’ some pickles.”
“No ! Thank you, really.”
“’S’nothin’ to me,” said J. Bobble.
“Thank you, no. Never accept anything
from strangers.”
“I ain’t a stranger,” said J. Bobble. “Me
and me mother lives over the road. Y’ better
take them.”
“Keally”
“Y’ain’t robbin’ me. I got ’em for nix.
They was condem’ pickles.”
“What?”
“Condem’ pickles! Condem’ by the So-
sherlists. Interferin’ with the liberty o’ sub-
jeks. Drivin’ pickles out o’ (lie country.”
“Condemned pickles! llow dare you?
They may have typhoid or some other fright-
ful disease in them. Take them away
instantly.” *
“Ho! Take them away, is it? Puffickly
good sweet pickles. Take ’em away because
the Trades Hall condems ’em. By jing!
I’ll ’ave me revenge for this. I’ll take ’em
away.”
“If you don’t, we’ll send for the police.”
J. Bobble, choking with wrath, seized
the pickles, dropped the blind, and crossed
the road breathing slaughter and revenge—
a revenge lie instituted immediately. Re-
turning to the house of the proud ones he
threw the bottle at the fence. It broke in
fragments on the gate-post and the smell
that escaped into the night was sufficient
evidence to clear the interfering Socialism
which had condemned the pickles.
J. Bobble told his mother, and that
poisonous lady next morning began the con-
tinuous espionage which the old ladies did
not observe for two full days. Then the
significance of that tireless surveillance
seemed to strike them. Two days later found
them irritated. A week and their nerves be-
gan to go. That cadaverous woman sitting
under her verandah all day long, and watch-
ing. the lonely sisters whenever they entered
their garden—her deep-set eyes glaring at
them in mute insult—drove them at last to
stay within'the house. They went on their
little errands at night or early in the morn-
ing.
Then they began to feel that though they
saw her not she still watched them, so that
the act of lifting the corner of the window-
blind to see if the malevolent watcher was
still there at last became a habit —a habit
that maddened the users of it. They com-
plained to the police, who told them that
Mrs. Bobble had committed no offence —
not even against that unwritten statute
which clearly lays down that a cat may look
at a king. How much more then may the
mother of a junk-shop keeper look at two poor
women who knew no friend !
They left the house more rarely., They
furtively raised a corner of the blind more
frequently. They felt her baleful presence
at every step and saw her eyes filled with
changeless hatred glaring at them in the
darkness.
And at last the baker mentioned that
there were six loaves on the verandah, and
he left but a loaf a day, and the milkman
said there were six bottles of certified milk
on the kitchen table, where there should be
one. Three days before had been their time
for visiting “my lawyer” and “my lawyer”
came to the house on the sixth day, and
found them sitting in darkness at noon, the
blinds fastened to the sills so that the
watcher might be shut out. Next day he
brought two medical men and a woman in
the uniform of a nurse. In the afternoon
they took away the two sisters, who just
shuddered, and were as violent as age and
weakness and colorlessness would let them be,
when they passed the place whose sign was
“J. Bobble,” and where the grimly trium-
phant mother of ,T. Bobble still sat staring
trom under the verandah.
Yet, though the sisters had departed, habit
kept J. Bobbie’s mother to her daily watch-
ing. She experienced an accession of curi-
osity when,, a vreek after the sisters’ taking
away, certain vans discharged new furniture
at the house and removed the property of the
sisters to a saleroom. The new people were
a nephew of the old ladies and his wife —
very young, very light-hearted, and very
loving one with the other.
Mrs. Bobble announced their name and
station to J. Bobble at tea time a few days
after the house opposite had changed hands.
“A nevyer, J.,” said she, “an’ his wife.
No childring. I went over to make meself
friendly, an’ she asked who was the horrible
ole woman who had sat on the verandah an’
scared her ’usband’s a’nts to fits. So I told
’er I’d only been tryin’ to be friends, an’ she
flushed up an’ near shut the door in me
face. I didden’ even see the new furnitcher.”
“I’ll step over after tea.” said J. Bobble,
holding up two square inches of steak as if
it were a flag of truce, “an’ offer ’em a bit
o’ l’noleyum for the kitchen.”
I-Ie did too, and returned breathing threats
against the young husband who had not
flinched nor closed the door in his face, but
had told him to go to his own business and
never return again.
. The. daily watchings became feverish in
intensity after that, and then the new people
made a decisive move. The young husband
cut down the gigantic marsh-mallows and
the rusty cypresses. Then they saw that,
within the garden and half a dozen feet
from the fence, he had raised a trellis 12ft
high. He further secured creepers, which
grew with the indecent rapidity of tlie bean-
(Continued on next page)


Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Restful, quiet and cool —open to the Summer Sea Breezes. Delightfully situated with Private
beach and Amphitheatre baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service.
Spacious Grounds and Garage Accommodation.
Summer Tariff from 5 guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines). Management M. E. BURROWS.
A FINE PIECE OF ARTISTIC PLAITING
e
THE "APEX” WHIP
This beautiful example of Australian
craftsmanship is carried out in two colors,
with a neat swastika design on both handle
and thong. The thong is Bft. long, 20-
plait, with lifelike fall.
PRICE, 78/6 COMPLETE.
For 2/6 extra we will plait up to four
initials in the handle.
K’BURRA STOCKWHIPS
FOR EVERYDAY HARD WEAR
Kangaroo right through with inside
plaited belly.
Thongs. 6ft. 7ft. Bft. 9ft.
12-plait 18/6 21/- 23/6 27/6
16-plait 21/6 24/6 27/6 31/6
20-plait 26/6 30/- 33/6 38/6
HANDLES TO MATCH. 16-plait, 17/-; 24-plait,
19/-; 32-plait, 22/-. Loaded for Oft. thonjs, 1/6
more.
FREIGHT FREE FOR CASH.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON, LTD., 595 George St., Sydney.
■
n
r ' : l
f# iii
i>X?
H
II
The Cigar of generous size and weigni.
Supreme in flavor and aroma.
At all good hotels and
tobacconists.
è
Box prices:—
10 Cigars, 5/C (posted 6/-)
25 „ 12/- (posted .12/6)
50 „ 23/- (posted 23/9)
100 „ 45/- (posted 40/- )
Sampler Box, containing 2 Cigars,
1/- Post Free.
CRAIG AND AITKEN
SYDNEY
DISTRIBUTORS FOR
CLUB REIL CIGAR FACTORY
Rapid Relief
é
from
Good-bye, to Rheumatism ••
The factor deciding your health, strength and span
of life is your blood. If handicapped by Rheum-
atism, Backache, Lumbago, Sciatica, Neuritis, etc.,
you have only to drive the uric-acid poisons from
the blood this medically-recommended way to get
well again! Harrison’s Pills form the one remedy
for kidney, bladder and urinary troubles any quali-
fied medical man, knowing the formula, would
readily recommend. Harrison’s Pills do what is
claimed for them —they remove the CAUSE of
rheumatic aches, joint and back pains, “lame spells,”
muscular stiffness, swellings and genito-urinary dis-
orders, and give such prompt relief as to surprise
the taker. Harrison’s Pills actually make you feel
younger, and they do not embarrass by discoloring
the urine.
Don’t Mistake the Symptoms!
The big danger to-day is uric acid. More lives
crash and come to a premature end through uric
acid or allied disorders than is generally supposed.
Many do not realise their trouble is uric acid and
that it may affect the heart. Uric acid is difficult
to dissolve by ordinary means; yet Harrison’s Pills
quickly, surely dissolve and banish it from the
system. People report relief from Harrison’s Pills
when all else has failed them. Middle-aged men
quickly regain activity; so-called “old-timers” soon
“come back” with a vigorous freshness surprising
to all who know them; women fast losing their
youthful charm and popularity find Harrison’s Pills
a blessing.
Satisfaction or Money Back!
There is ample evidence that Harrison’s Pills are
most effective for banishing Back Pains; Stiff, Swol-
len Joints; Rheumatism ; Sciatica ; Neuritis; Con-
stipation ; Lumbago; Kidney, Bladder and Genito-
urinary Disorders and Inflammations. So the fol-
lowing guarantee is confidently given to safeguard
those wishing to try this remedy: The- price para
lor the first bottle of Harrison's Pills will be re-
funded to anyone not completely satisfied! In this
way you may test for yourself the remarkable pain-
eliminating and rejuvenating powers of Harrisons
Pills without risking a penny. And since any good
chemist or store can supply' you, in three handy
sizes, at 2/-, 3/- and 5/-, why drift along the hateful
road that leads to miserable pain-racked old age?
What a Hospital Nurse Says:—
St. Andrew’s Private Hospital,
Victoria St., New Lambton.
To Amalgamated Laboratories, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —You might be interested to know that
the success of Harrison’s Pills in treating Kidney
and Hladder Troubles, Backache, etc., has been
such that I have recommended this remedy to scores
of patients, and I can testify definitely to their
unusual efficacy and great value for use in these
painful troubles.
( Signed ) Sister B. Piper,
Harrison’s Pills
Remove both Cause and Symptoms
stalk in the fairy tale, and in less than a
month, aided by showery spring nights and
warm spring days, the house and garden
opposite were hidden from the road by dense
green leaf and bloom. Let her watch ever
so closely, J. Bobble’s mother was defeated,
J. Bobble tried to pry behind the trellis,
but the nephew of the old ladies, whom
loneliness and the malevolent curiosity of J.
Bobble’s mother had driven away, had a very
thorough method of repelling unwelcome
strangers. One of these methods was a black
and brown cattle-dog. The gossip of the street
said that the dog was a great heeler, having
finished his education in a slaughter-house,
After one interview with him J. Bobble
believed every word of it.
Thereafter they glowered at the rejuve-
nated place behind its shield of green. Hatred
of these people who had broken the most
sacred of the conventions of mean streets —
which is that all neighbors must know and
talk to one another over the party fence—
took absolute possession of them. Laughter
came from behind the trellis in the late
afternoons • and from the house, hidden also
in a mantle of leaf and bloom, came of even-
ings the voice of the young wife singing to
the little piano. Sometimes the young bus-
band sang too. The summer heat upon the
galvanised-iron roof of J. Bobble made the
Bobbles weak-minded, so that tliev hugged
their fancied insults the more dearly. They
felt that nobody wanted them, and they hated
the world, but particularly the young bus-
band who had built a trellis wall around his
castle and kept a fierce wild beast in the
form of a cattle-dog to bite unwelcome
guests.
Mrs. Bobble sat on the verandah all day
and half the night glaring through the dark-
ness towards the barrier she could not see.
A child of Mrs. Tutton’s further up the
street died of typhoid, and Mrs. Bobble was
so obsessed by her own wrongs that she
broke another convention and did not close
the shutters when the old rusty black hearse
made its process past her door. Thereatter,
at times, she had to suspend her vigil, run-
uing inside her house for safety when the
big, black-haired Mrs. Tutton periodically
descended upon the house, dishevelled, gnef-
crazy and crying; “I’ll kill her. She never
closed the shutters when me little W line
died.”
The galvanised-iron of the house and the
long brooding and the baffling trellis opposite
and the increasingly confused junk clnffon-
iered by J. Bobble had their effect at last,
One day Mrs. Tutton, shrieking her veil-
geance on the shutters that were open when
little Willie died, saw J. Bobble’s mother, still
glaring malevolently at the trellis opposite;
taken away also.
But there are others yet to come from
Dippy-street—weak intelligences driven to
destruction by the indecent crowding and
the monontone of spall and gutter and all the
dehumanising forces that the greed of man
brings to mean streets.
Motor-cars and Martha.
FERNLEY MAURICE TRIES TO COEVINCE TEE LADY THAT MOTOR-CARS
ARE REALLY BEETLES.
MARTHA considers me a freak because
I don't believe in picture-shows, de-
partment stores or motor-cars. Woman-
like, instead of giving them their true dig-
nity, she says that my objections are based
on purely financial reasons, not unmingled
with envy. Yet all my friends know that I
object to these things on philosophic, social
and religious grounds.
“For all that, you rode to Mornington last
Sunday fortnight in Mr. Hogan’s new l’ush-
mcoff.” (It’s amazing' how affectionately
these women. do use these car-names; there
was no reason for Martha to say “Pushme-
off.”)
“Martha,” I retorted, “whatever you or
anyone else may say of my views and expres-
sions, no one can honestly charge me with
bigotry.”
“I’ll give you credit for being able to
wriggle out of anything,” she replied, and
any chagrin I ynay have experienced was
obliterated by my realisation of the exces-
sive womanliness of her words. Wriggle?
The idea! I am one of the most consistent of
men and never express an opinion without
mature consideration and most carefully
weighing the significant facts. My objection
to motor-cars is physical, aesthetic, social
and temperamental. Motor-cars arc vermin.
They have settled on the community like a
swarm of beetles. As with the cuckoo in
the sparrows’ nest, it takes all the energies
of the proprietors to support these voracious
interlopers, these consumers of our sub-
stance —physical and financial.
And they affect my lumbago terribly.
Every “honk” I hear hits me fair in the
•small of the back, and the hasty leap that
always follows the “honk” causes me spasms
of unspeakable agony. But in a serious dis-
cussion of this sort I must try to avoid
wandering off into the personal aspect. As
I was saying, motor-cars appear to me to be
nothing other than a swarm of enormous
beetles that have settled on our social
organism and are sucking the life out of it.
“But how very convenient it is,” says
Martha, “to be carried from door to door—
no buying tickets, no crowding through the
station gates”....
“Most of the car-owners I am acquainted
with will be going from door to door all
right, and that very shortly,” I told her.
“What do you mean?” my wife asked
suspiciously.
“Selling thimbles and writing-pads and
cakes of soap.”
“Nonsense!” she said.
“No nonsense about it,” I replied, taking
a deep breath. “Didn’t Hogan knock over
liis gate-post the first night he brought, the
thing home? If he couldn’t afford the car
he certainly couldn’t afford to knock the
gate-post over. And what about the man
down at the corner? He was a regular
church-goer until he bought that second-
had Ivnocksall, and every Sunday now he
does nothing but scowl and, with a spanner
in his hand, stride round and round the
thing as it stands in front of his house.
His language is frightful. I insist motor-
cars swallow character and bank-balances
with indifferent voracity,”
“You always take the extreme view.”
“That’s what you say when I say things
you can’t contradict. Mitchell can’t afford
that Trundler; a month before he got it
he told me he could not afford to feed
another dog even. He should have got a
perambulator if he had such a passion for
wheels.”
But I must get on with that notion about
vermin. I think it’s rather apt.
Motor-cars have settled on the commuuitv
like a swarm of monster beetles which are
sucking the life-blood out of it. They have
given an enormous impetus to crime, and
in their “listen-to-reason-or-walk-home”
aspect have a loosening effect on the mor-
ality of the rising generation. They have
made life in the city almost unbearable
with anxiety and real danger. The country
roads have no longer any attraction for
the nature-loving pedestrian; particularly
those suffering from lumbago, as I do. It’s
shameful that a man who has always made
up an honest income-tax return cannot
cross a i-oad to get to the railway station
Avithout taking his life in his hands—to
say nothing of the lives of Martha and the
children. Motor-cars remind me of the
beetles on a dead tree when you suddenly
tear off a sheet of bark. They are always
running away from something, and nearly
all their journeys are without legitimate
objective. They are sinister symbols of the
fever of the time and the aimless restlessness
of a hag-ridden peonle for ever running away
from something. Happiness is always some-
where else, and, petrol station after petrol
station, they draw farther away from home
and the true consolation of a contented
mind. “This is a nice village, wasn’t it?’’
When at rest the monsters crouch in their
garages, headlights aglare, honking to the
slaves who think they arc masters, and the
slaves trot out to see what the monster
wants next. Talk about the serfs who
learned to love their chains! Surely never
a zealot flogged himself with a fiercer lash
and laughed more hysterically under the
torture! Monty Andrews pushed the back
out of his garage the night before last.
That’s fifteen quid gone bust that Monty
can’t afford ; and his wife is already three
months behind in the instalments on her
electric cleaner, and Martha herself con-
fesses that they live on the smell of an oil-
rag. Since they’ve had the car they should
never go short of oil-rags, anyway. Out
of one lump of cotton waste I saw in
their- shed they could get enough smells
for three substantial meals, to say nothing
of the shiny puddles his gimcrack machine
dribbles in front of our gate. “The joys of
motoring!” said the devotee as he poked a
blackened visage out from under the running
board. The suit of clothes he was ruining
was a time-payment one.
And so the beetles gnaw at our vitals; and
so the juggernaut with its hideous blinding
eyes and nerve-racking screams and groans
rolls our substance out flat to make a
pleasant path for its spongy wheels. Men
never made roads for the wool-waggons like
they make for these parasites, though the
work of the waggons was honest work.
“Here are the tomato-growers going black
in the face calling out for new roads, and the
joy-riders and Sunday tourers get the lot,’’ I
remarked to Martha.
“That’s sheer exaggeration,” she said. “Be-
sides. you know I don’t like tomatoes.”
“Why must we pander,” I replied, “to
these things that pander to our trashy lusts
for speed and a social standing that is as
hollow and windy as the tyres that put the
hideous black polish on the roads that used
to lead to the hills of repose? The more 1
see of motor-cars the more I love the bullock-
teams.”
But it’s no use talking to Martha.
“A log-hut in the bush or a quiet little
house on a cliff overlooking the bay,” 1
ventured.
“Oh, now you’re on that simple life stuff
again,” she said.
“The simple life, my good woman,” I
began with an appropriate elocutionary ges-
ture by raising my arm above mv head; but
owing to the cold expression in Martha’s
eyes I suddenly forgot all the very effective
things I was going to say and brought my
arm down again in a thinly-disguised embar-
rassment of silence. Martha has that effect
on one.
“You explained to me once,” she said,
“when we were reading some ancient p.oem
or other, that ‘silly’ in those days was syno-
nymous with ‘simple’;, when you talk the
‘simple’ life, X think it’s time someone turned
the meanings back again to where they
started from.”
Then Martha went on with her darning,
pulling a thread through with such vigor
that she just missed her en.r with the needle.
“You haven’t put the billy out yet,” she
said definitely.
The One Love.
There is one love for all.
Voluptuary, monk or tender child.
The stonemason may carve his house, or
build
Us cities, and the axeman spoil the wild,
The ship-builder build ships, the sailor man
them.
The pearler take his suit and learn the
seas,
Marconi make his language of the spirits,
And Edison capture the harmonies.
Lovers may raise their children up and send
them
To conquer thought and dreams and chain
the air,
And merchants fill the banks, and their own
stomachs.
And women bind the jasmine in their hair:
But Helena of Troy had the one lover,
The sea has one, though flirting with the
moon,
The trees send down their life roots to their
lover.
For earth claims all in mateship very
soon!
QUEENSLAND.
LLYWELYN LUCAS.


m
m
m
■
wmmm
mmmm
WESTIN G HOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in Jtock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES je CIILKCH, Brisbane. fflNrnim «7CCT u C uritrc
N.Z. OHit e—-03-107 leatherston Street, Wellington. UUWLUKU nr E,31, N. 0. WAI/tO
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House,” 485 Bonrke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide. S.A.
IF YOU DESIRE
TO REACH THE
TASMANIAN
BUYING PUBLIC
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
should carry your message.
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town and
Country—this Popular Weekly goes regularly
into the homes of the people, and each
issue is eagerly read by men, women and
children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest, with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays. Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS. LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 228
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: "Argus"
Building, Elizabeth Street.
Cfte fldoertlstr
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” map be
obtained at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price 1J d.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
(Mad Office.:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
WILSON, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone, MA3161.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
For Any Advertising Campaign in
Queensland Let Your First Choice Be
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
and its companion journal, “The Sunday Mail,"
Queensland’s big weekly newspaper and magazine.
“The Daily Mail” is the big morning paper with a
greater nett circulation than any other daily in the
State.
“The Sunday Mail" covers in one day the entire
metropolitan circulation of Brisbane’s four dailies.
For advertising- rates and other particulars, please apply to
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288*294 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE, Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
1 If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN*’
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
QUEENSLAND'S BIG DAILY PAPER
THE BRISBANE COURIER
Easily the best and biggest Daily Paper
published in Queensland and carries more
ADVERTISING
than any other Queensland paper year in
and year out - - “Courier” advertising
INCREASES SAEES
Rate Cards and specimen
copies from
Robt. D. Fisher,
Sydney Representative,
7 4 Pitt Street.
’Phone 85007.
Published by the
Brisbane Newspaper Co.,
"Courier” Building,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Also publishers of the
"Queenslander” and
Sports Referee.”
A
,
A WOMAN'S sensibilities
are finer, her enthusiasms
deeper than man’s. She
overworks, overplays, “ lives
on her nerves ” and is nearly
always constipated and suffers.
Women need Beecham's Pills.
They bring colour to the
cheeks, sparkle to the eyes,
and quiet to the nerves by
stimulating healthy digestion
and regular complete elim-
ination.
Beecham’s Pills enable
woman to be at her best.
rii<
>'Tl
:S%
f
“A KERMATH ALWAYS RUNS”
These dependable marine
engines are built with ex-
ceptional care, all parts are
evenly balanced, and the
completed engine is minute-
ly tested by the most
exacting experts.
All parts Standard and Inter*
changeable, American Bosch
Magnetos—impulse coupling,
3 to ISO H. P.
1 to 6 cylinders
4-cycle Engines
HALL BROS., LTD*
Careening Cove
(Foot of Willoughby St.)
Milson's Point
North Sidney, N.S.W
KERMATH
Manufacturing
Company
Detroit, Mich,
l). S. A.
Cable Address
Kef math
ê
ë
w.o^
the Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania,
Is the only daily effectively covering the North
of Tasmania, where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live, it is the northern
part of Tasmania that is prosperous and forging
ahead.
Full information, copies advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and
‘Saturday Evening Express'* obtainable from ;
w - % , a I SS I S & Sons Pty-» Ltd., Mr. V. W. Margetts, Mr. W. G. Dougan,
73-75 Patterson Street, 122 Flinders Street, 701 Herald Building,
Launceston. Melbourne. 66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
*
0°
0#
s©
,iO e <r6)*
W'\.e % •
; . •••• ..••••-
,^


*ss««***
ē
pAKE notice, all men,
forth, for the public good, the
- h
corkscrew is to be banished. It always was
a nuisance, a wrecker of good corks and good
tempers—if it happened not to be missing
when wanted. Johnnie Walker has the right
idea. Still the same reliable cork age
honoured as the finest possible closure for
spirits—but ready to be drawn instantly with
a finger and thumb. No fiddling—just an
honest cork, with a milled top for perfect
gripping; and in the bottle, the whisky
that has made and kept more friends
than any other whisky in the world.
v uW
IVV\V
W'
ffi
m
t/
in
J'
ab
ej
3PK*
r
r
\m
m
fe
<?/A
JOHNNIE
WAMtER
WHISKY
Born 1820-
Still going Strong
JOHN WALKER &. SONS LTD., SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, LONDON and KILMARNOCK
