

■
■ ■
■ m
;-' : rP!ifc^i.-..-.
•.■ ,
>•::
...
S ,: $v> 'rjtgttf
ss''<vK^4
■
. . • ' -.
: . w^i
m
rv :
• v ■ • v
.
yg
,
IM
$
a
m.
■
■
B
m
m
IPHI
a.
- :
d
WMsm.
cryzcr . sTp-0\
<z zz>
h t
/w
I JJ
w
w
E
■
1
■
ft
The Bulletin
(Raa/d. MaiiztmA JLfs. NcrtL) cmd A^cfCun\A
Vol. 50.—N0. 2593.
Wednesday, October 23, 1929.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


"THE 1929 LIBRARY CATALOGUE is
now ready, and will be forwarded post
free, with full terms and particulars, on
application to
BYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD.,
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE TIMES LITERARY SUPPLEMENT
>, posted weekly for on ; year, 17/4.
THE TIMES WEEKLY EDITION, weekly
25/- per annum.
Address Subscriptions to THE TIMES
(Australian Office),
255 a George Street, Sydney.
m
iMi
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON !
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booldet, .explaining h<n to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Mpi.i.ftin.
My Same
My Address •
ULYSAGHT’
3
O
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
\
: T
''■Ji .
Bulletin Prize Novel
Competitors! Give your work its best
chance. Take expert opinion beforehand.
Consult A. G, STEPHENS, editor of
“Steele Rudd’s” first three successful books;
collaborator with Dorrrngton as novelist;
thanked by Ethel Turner for advice in
shaping a story; for many years critic of
fiction in The Book fellow, and occasional
“reader” for H'odder and Stoughton (Syd-
ney) and T. Fisher Unwin (London), etc.
Fee for perusal and advice, full-length
novel, including plot, construction and
characters (but not re-writing), £3 3s. Refer
Evening News Year Book; Notable Aus-
tralians; Who’s Who (London).
Address: C/o Moore’s Book Shop, 60
King-street, Sydney.
Losing Your Hair?
Vi-Gio'will
Stop it!
■*
Vl-Glo will
SSop it!
3*
Too late for
Vi-61o!
To be bald is to be a joke ! Fate showers her gifts
on the alert, young-looking men and women. Once
you’re bald you’re beyond hope—save your hair
while you can. “Vi-Glo” will do it! This is a
NEW, Scientific, non-watery, non-greasy preparation
that gets to the hair roots and revitalises them to
such an extent that the new hair grown actually
possesses a natural waviness that improves one’s
looks tremendously! “Vi-Glo” stops Dandruff! “Vi-
Glo” wards off and banishes premature Greyness!
“Vi-Glo” gives the hair new Youth! Price 3;-,
complete with special Free “bay-rum” Shampoo.
Get “Vi-Glo” from any Chemist’s or Stores, or post
3/4 for outfit to the Vi-Glorient Company, Kembla
Building, Sydney.
If any illustration in ‘‘The Bulletin” takes your fancy, write
to the Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
Don’t Let
“NERVES”
Get You!
Keep Your Grip on Health ,
Strength and Forceful Vigour
by taking Cream of Yeast l
MIDNIGHT! Something creaks.
the worried business man, about
to retire, starts nervously. “CREAK!'
again “They’re after those papers!” %
he gasps as, more scared than he would
admit, he points a shaking pistol
Only the cat! Just another .case of “nerves,” but
he’ll be fit for nothing' to-morrow. •“Nerves” start
that way. A jumpy feeling; restlessness; a rapid
puffing at innumerable cigarettes. Soon work will
suffer, then stop. Nervous breakdown comes that
way. The remedy is Cream of Yeast. It calms the
nerves and keeps them calm. Gives strength. Stops
ď
đ
headaches, nei've pains, colds, stomach upset, restlex-
::ritability and depression. Quickly. Surely. Safely-
Makes vou feel better and brighter m a few minutes.
Try it! Three sizes; all chemists, 1/11, 3/6 and
5/9. Don’t let “nerves” get you—
Get Cream mi Yeast Instead !
Amalgamated, Laboratories, Kembla Building, Sydney, and all High-class Chemists.
ntm
Sh
**+• 4
nr*
V
Sold Everywhere.
PRICE 1/-
j »<•
*
<**
ft
\ A *>'
•sr
"iwim.
ir
The Red page
The Novels Come In
Entries that suggest The Bulletin’s
Second Novel Competition will be as suc-
cessful as the first are coming in. The
closing date is now barely two months away
—December 31 —and writers who have their
entries completed should take no risk about
their MSS. arriving late, as a few did in
the first competition.
An intending competitor asks what is the
best form in which to send in a manuscript.
The Bulletin prefers the script fastened
into five or six numbered parts. Don’t send
it loose in a box—or even in a coffin. Prac-
tised writers use the method of fastening
into five or six numbered parts. It makes
the heavy job of reading a great deal easier.
The prizes are:' First, £400; second, £250;
third, £lOO.
Entries that failed in the First Competi-
tion are eligible. Many of them lost owing
to defects which might have been removed
by revision.
The prize stories are to be available for
publication serially; but apart from that the
copyright of every story will be reserved to
the writer, to whom all profits on the pub-
lication of the story in book form will
belong. Cinema and dramatic rights also
will belong absolutely to the writer, but
the prize-winning stories and those that may
be bought for serial use shall not be avail-
able for cinema or stage presentation until
after their publication as serials.
Competitors must be Australian-born or
bona fide resident in Australia. (Australia,
for the purpose of this paragraph, includes
New Zealand and the Southern Pacific.)
Eveiy story for competition must be sub-
mitted under a nom de plume; and the
name and address of the writer, with the
nom de plume, must accompany it in a
sealed envelope, which will not be opened
until after the stories have been judged.
Stories submitted for competition must not
have been previously published.
The length of the novel is left to the
discretion of the writer; but a novel which
goes beyond 100,000 words is not suitable
for serial publication, and something around
80,000 words has been found most suitable.
Entries will be considered from the point
of view of suitability for serial publication
in either The Bulletin or the Woman’s
Mirror.
If stamps are enclosed, all MSS. that do
not gain a place will be returned to their
authors promptly after the decision is made.
Competitors whose entries do not gain a
prize but whose work is considered suitable
for serial publication will be notified that
the Bulletin Newspaper Co. is prepared to
purchase the serial rights. Competitors
will be permitted to withdraw entries before
the closing date if they so desire.
The Bulletin will be pleased to supply
any further information upon request.
Australian Books Wanted (1)
Before me is “the Canadian Catalogue of
Books Published in Canada; about Canada;
as well as those written by Canadians; with
imprint of 1928.” It is published by the
Public Library, Toronto, and this is the
seventh year of issue. The contents are
classified lists of all books published for
Canadian authors; all books published in
Canada; all books published elsewhere
about Canada; for the year 1928. The lists
are ranged alphabetically under authors’
names. Publishers’ names and prices are
added. There are about 1400 entries. I
estimate that a similar Australian catalogue
might contain up to 700 annual entries.
The permanent literary utility of such- a
catalogue is plain. It is a record, year by
year, such as a public library—and per-
haps only a public library—is fitted to
supply. The Toronto Library has also the
spirit to publish a monthly magazine of
library information. Yet Toronto has but
half the population of Sydney.
Such a record, as a basis of bibliographies
necessary to historians in all departments of
Australian literature, should have been
commenced here years ago; it should be
commenced without further delay. The card
index of the Mitchell Library may be
considered to approximate the record
desired. But Australia is a vast country.
It is difficult or impracticable for all his-
torical writers to journey to Sydney; and
then the work of turning cards is tiresome,
and likely to breed errors and omissions
that a printed record may prevent. A yearly
catalogue of Australian books may reason-
ably be deemed almost indispensable to
literary research.
P. Serle, of Melbourne, who compiled (he
valuable and generally excellent “Biblio-
graphy of Australian Poetry and Verse,” is
said to have spent three years in his en-
thusiastic labor. A similar bibliography of
Australian history might take one man two
years; a bibliography of Australian fiction
might take four or five years. These are
not fair tasks for one man unassisted by a
monetary grant. Australian literature, in
several departments, is spreading beyond
any one man’s capacity to keep pace with
its output, without the help of catalogues
and bibliographies. The catalogue of Aus-
tralian literature published by the Public
Library, Sydney, extends only to 1888, and
omits much that is relevant. The Common-
wealth Library catalogue of Australiana is
incomplete. The Mitchell Library does not
print a catalogue.
For 1927-28, Sydney Public Library re-
ceived Government grants totalling £25,000;
all expended; £15,571 on salaries and £5787
on books. The salaries of the Mitchell
Library staff were paid from these grants.
Cannot the Mitchell trustees dnvote a
small portion of their income to payment
of the additional assistance required for
the publication of an Annual Catalogue of
Australian Books? Perhaps £2OO would
suffice in view of the facilities existing. One
feels that D. S. Mitchell would have seen
the utility of such an expenditure.
N.S.W. Public Library receives by copy-
right law a free copy of every book pub-
lished in New South Wales. The Common-
wealth Library receives by copyright law
a copy of every book published in Australia.
Bibliographies of Australian history and
fiction, in a literary view, are particularly
required. If N.S.W. Public Library, or the
Mitchell Library, may fairly be asked to
undertake the comparatively small work of
an annual record, cannot the Commonwealth
Library undertake these bibliographies?
They may not unreasonably be considered
works of national importance, beyond the
ordinary powers of private individuals.
The Universities should help further. Arts
students—still sometimes ardently employed
in memorising lists of British kings and
squeezing the husks of English literature
from Beowulf to Lisle Bowles—could be
encouraged, by a small prize or otherwise,
to make and publish annually a critical
summary of the Australian literature of
the past year—extending to, say, a 48-page
or 64-page pamphlet. The task would be
good for the students, and very useful to
literary historians.
Nettie Palmer has attempted such a task
in her account of 24 years of recent Aus-
tralian verse and fiction; containing some
good passages of criticism and some that are
plainly not so good. But her period is too
long for her space; and, for result, her
little book wants perspective; it is all fore-
ground. You need to know nearly as much
as the author before you can distinguish
her figures in their due proportions and
relations. As the station black said who
was sent to see the town of Cloncurry:
“Couldn’t seeum town, boss. Too many
houses.” The job should be done yearly.
A. G. STEPHENS.
[ln a further article Mr. Stephens will indicate
some historical, biographical and other books badly
wanted in Australia, and will suggest how they
might be achieved.] .
Tolstoy and His Wife
[The writer of this article is secretary to the
Tolstoy Society. members of which include Maurice
Baring, John Drinkwater, John Galsworthy, Prof.
Gilbert Murray and J. C. Squire.]
M. G. Skipper, reviewing “The Diary of
Tolstoy’s Wife” (R.P. 17/7/’29), treats the
Countess’s rc'marks as an authoritative
judgment on her husband. He seems to
have overlooked her own words, written
after six years of marriage:—
It makes me laugh to read over this diary. It
is so full of contradictions, and one would think I
was such an unhappy woman. Yet is there a happier
woman than I ? It would be hard to find a happier
or more friendly marriage than ours.
Five years later she noted down that
in a state of mental stress T invariably take to my
diary; I pour out my bad mood and it helps to
sober me.
Countess S. A. Tolstoy had many good
qualities, but she also had an hysterical
tendency which later developed into suicidal
mania. Judiciously used and carefully com-
pared with other evidence her diary has
its value, but to take it by itself as impartial
evidence is to misread the situation.
After Tolstoy had allowed her and the
family to divide up his property among
them, and his ancestral estate of Yasnaya
Polyana had passed to her, the main cause
of disagreement between husband and wife
was his decision to accept no payment for
his literary work and to bequeath it to the
public. One understands the Countess’s
dislike of that arrangement, even when it
took the extreme form of denying aceess to
the house to his particular friend Chertkov,
and exacting from her husband a promise
not to meet Chertkov elsewhere; but
it quite misrepresents the position when
Mr. Skipper asserts that the Count’s
(Red l’age continued on page 5.)


"Truth in Advertising,” the foundation- -one
of honest trading, laid by Anthony Horderns’.
HIS
In
I
D
D
D
k
v><y
111416
\0 .
The whole of this amazing purchase is to be
cleared at Half Price! Study the values below.
No. I—KDIS9. Venetian
Lace Tray Cloths.
Size, 14in. x 20in.
Prica 3/-
H-W Pric°. 1/6 e?.
No. 2 KDI72. Venetian
Lace Supper Cloth,
neatly embroidered.
Size, 36in. x 36in.
Price 11/"
Half Price, 5/6 ea.
No. 3 KDI62. Venetian
Lace and Embroi-
dered Runner. Eyelet
design. Size, 1 3in. x
54in. Price . . 9/11
Half Price, 4/11£ ea.
No. 4—KD2O2. Swiss Tam-
bour Table Centre.
Size, 14in. x 20in.
Oval. Price ... 2/-
Half Price, 1/- ea.
No. 5 KDI94. Swiss Tam-
bour Tea Cloths.
Size, 31 in. x 31 in.
Price 4/3
Half Price, 2/1 \ ea.
No. 6—KDI67. /enetian
Lace Doyleys. Size,
9in. Price .... 1/-
7 ,c Pric
No. 7 KDII4. Oval Table
Centre. Cotton
Richelieu. Size, 14in.
x 20in. Price . 3/6
Half Price, 1/9 ea.
No. 8 KDISO. Plauen Lace
Edge Supper Cloth.
Size, 36in. x 36in.
Price 13/6
Half Price, 7/9 ea.
No. 9 KD2O9. Swiss Tam-
bour 4-piece Duch-
esse Sets. Price, 5/6
Half Price, 2/9 ea.
No. 10 KDI6O. Venetian
Lace Tray Cloth.
Eyelet design. Size,
1 6in. x 24in.
Price 5/-
Half Price, 2/6 ea.
No. 1 I—KDI74. Heavy Ven-
etian Lace Table
Centre. Size, 14in. x
20in. Oval. Price, 5/3
Half Price, 2/7i ea.
No. 12—KD207. Swiss Tam-
bour Runner. Size,
1 2in, x 42in.
Price 3/11
Half Price, 1/11£ ea.
1
4r
IP
C
1
a
Z.j£?/SK,
13
SS
V®
<«:
: -*
is>'
-
S=>
a
sssja
“
14
10
SSk
15
sH^ssu
11
m
fcs
rsKVa
16
riMr/i*
18
11
17
X
V.
*2
19
m
a
22
m
%
m
sas
10
14
£r
132
Vi
&
ii
Sfi
a-fs
*
Manchester Department, First Floor. We pay Carriage.
No. 1 3—KD 199. Attractive
design Tamb o u r
Supper Cloth. Size,
36in. x 36in.
Price 8/6
Half Price, 4/3 ea.
No. 14 KD 1 08. Attractive
Cotton Richelieu
Table Centre. Size,
24in. Price . . 8/6
Ba’f Price, 4/3 ea.
No. 15—KD122. Cotton
Richelieu Sideboard
Runner. Size, 12in.
x 45in. Price . 5/11
Half Price, 2/11J ea.
No. 16—KD1I3. Cotton
Richelieu Supper
Cloth. Size, 4 5 in. x
45in. Price . . 16/6
Half Price, 8/3 ea.
No. 17— KD186. Table
Centre. Swiss Appli-
que. Size, 1 Bin.
Price ....... 1/11
Half Price, 11 Id. ea.
No. 18—KD 1 66. Venetian
Lace Doyley. Size,
6in. Price .... 10d.
Half Price, sd. ea.
No. 19—KD140. Plauen Lace
Doyleys. Size, 6in.
Price 1/1
Half Pri- Sid. ea.
No. 20—KD 120. Cotton
Richelieu Tray Cloth.
Size, Min. x 20in.
Price 3/9
Half Price, l/10i ea.
No. 21—KD 105. Cotton
Richelieu Doyleys.
Size, Min. Price, 2/2
Half Price, 1/1 ea.
No. 22—KD104. Cotton
Richelieu Doyleys.
Size, 1 Oin. Price, 1 /6
Half Price, 9d. ea.
No. 23 —KD2O4. Swiss Tam-
bour Tray Cloths.
Size, 14in. x 20in.
Price 1/11
Half Price, 11 id. ea.
No. 24—KD124. Four-piece
Duchesse Set. Cotton
Richelieu. Price, 7/6
Half Price, 3/9 set.
*
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
•Phone: M 2401,
Day and Night.


.
a
VAUXHALL
PERFORMANCE
DRIVE
THE
CAR
s
1
lasMMaaalI asMMaaal
/ : ' ' ,
i*
BIUM
THE most fascinating thing about the Vauxhall’s
high average speed is that you don’t have to try
to go fast! No forcing the pace . . .no hurry.
Simply drive normally, comfortably, smoothly.
You are not conscious of unusual speed. Yet all the
time a high-powered engine is driving high-ratio gears.
Rapid acceleration is bringing you up from a crawl to a
dash in a few seconds. You are going round bends
faster than usual, for there is no sidesway to
make you slow down. You are making a high
average speed ... in comfort .in safety.
In safety . . . for your brakes can
bring you to a standstill from 60
miles an hour in three seconds!
GENERAL MOTORS
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Brisbane :: Sydney :: Melbourne :: Adelaide :: Perth.
>
I
wr
. m j
And in motion or at rest the Vauxhall is a
picture of grace, with its fluted bonnet, its distinguished
coachwork.
The huge financial, research and engineering
resources of General Motors, by providing the newest
and most efficient equipment, have enabled this fine
car to he built and sold at notably moderate prices.
The Vauxhall chassis is built of 97% British
material and with 100% British Labor.
To appreciate Vauxhall perfomance you must
drive the car. Your nearest Vauxhali
dealer will be glad to arrange a trial run.
PRICES from £595
Prices given subject to change without notice.
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR
Convenient Payments can be arranged on the Liberal
G.M.A.C. Terms Plan.
irte impnov-ea /u~UU
VALXHALLSIX
-of a. Lon 4 Blue Blooded Line
Metropolitan Distributors:
BRISBANE . . . METROPOLITAN MOTORS, LTD., LAIDE STREET
ADELAIDE MANN’S MOTORS, LTD., FRANKLIN STREET
SYDNEY KIRBY, LYONS, LTD., WILLIAM STREET
PERTH MASTER MOTORS, LTD., MILLIGAN STREET


%
m
WWCmSTM
patow
MADE IN U.S.A.
lubricates. clean*. polishes «*°
PREVENTS RUST.
A DEPENDABLE GENERAL UTILITY °
TOR USE WHERE A LIGHT LUBRICA"'
or HIGH QUALITY IS REQUIRE®.
OIL WILL NOT GUM. BECOME RA«
OB DRY OUT. IT FLOWS FREELY A
<S EASILY APPLIED.
CONTENTS 3 FLUID OUNCES
Winchester Repeating Arms Co.
New Haven .Conn..USA.
' will find a hundred uses for
wmcmsTm
THADC MARK
GENERAL
UTILITY OIL
KEEP a can at hand tc sil your sewing machine, phonograph,
vacuum cleaner, washing machine, locks and door hinges.
Polish pianos, radio cabinets and other woodwork with it. Keep al
metal parts and objects bright and free from rust. A drop or two
of this fine oil works wonders in countless different places around
the home, the office and the farm. Buy a can today and banish rust,
squeaks and friction.
If you are a sportsman —ask also for' Winchester Metal Prepara-
tions for your gun—Gun Oil, Gun Grease, Rust Remover and
Crystal Cleaner. They will help you keep your shotgun, title,
tevolVer or pistol in prime condition.
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN, CONN., U. S. A.
15
wwmzsm
f.S.
TRADE MARK
wtsrcMfrm
W!Mcm:srtfi
CRYSTAL
CLEANER
si
UJuQ
PUSTRIM
E R
admirers could “live gratis on the work of
the Count’s peasants lor ever and ever.
Tolstoy had no peasants and no property
and the Countess was quite capable of
deciding who should, and who should not,
be received at Yasnaya Polyana, which be-
longed to her.
Even more extraordinary is Mr. Skipper s
statement that “As old age crept upon him
[Tolstoy] he became tormented by a con-
suming fear of eternal punishment. This
gross superstition dominated his life.” I
should be very much interested to learn
where Mr. Skipper got this from. I knew
Tolstoy intimately for the last 25 years
of his life, knew his family and friends, have
written his biography, and have been in
touch with all that concerned him, but I
never before heard any suggestion of his
having been “tormented by a consuming'
fear of eternal punishment.” It is a gro-
tesque misrepresentation.
It may not matter much what people
invent to-day about the character of a
Russian who was born more than a century
ago, but when it comes to utterly misrepre-
senting such a great work as “What Is
Art?” which gave the world the first valid
and rational explanation of the relation in
which Art stands to the rest of life, it is
time to protest. For that is a matter of
profound importance to humanity, and is as
applicable to Australia to-day as it was to
the Russia of the last century. Of “What
Is Art?” which Mr. Skipper regards as the
“most barbarous of his works,” Bernard
Shaw wrote: —
Like all Tolstoy’s didactic writings, this book is
a most effective booby-trap. It is written with so
utter a contempt for the objections which the routine
critic is sure to allege against it, that many a
dilettantist reviewer has already accepted it as a
butt set up by Providence to show off his own
brilliant markmanship.
And he went on to say of Tolstoy’s main
contention:—
This is the simple truth ; the moment it is uttered,
whoever is conversant with art recognises in it the
voice of the master.
And only this August Prince D. S. Mirsky,
the best English-writing authority on
Russian literature, in an article in London
Observer said that in “What Is Art?” Tol-
stoy
evolved a theory of art of the greatest intrinsic
importance, and by this time it should have become
clear than an acquaintance with that theory should
in a civilised country be a requisite of every person
pretending to literary culture.
For some years past that work has been
obtainable separately only in the large,
illustrated volume, “Tolstoy on Art,” and
now also as one volume of the Centenary
Edition of Tolstoy’s works, but it is to be
included by the Oxford Press this autumn
in the cheap “World’s Classics” series, which
will make it more accessible to the general
public and will, I hope, incidentally, render
it impossible for anyone who has any
regard for his own literary reputation to
treat it as of no account.
CHELMSFORD (ENG.).
AYLMER MAUDE
Hoots
Accepting as representative the flock that
W. H. Hamilton has gathered together in
Holyrood, a Garland oj Modem Scots Poems
(Dent), modern Scotland is about on a
level with South Africa and Australia; not
one of the three could produce an anthology
of lyrics to compare with the English of the
Methuen collection or even of the Poetry
Bookshop brevities selected by W. H.
Davies. Representative lots from the three
would have much in common; chiefly a
flavor of the commonplace. More than half
of these Scottish lyrics are wholly common-
place. It is the work of the writer who sees
a topic and does a poem about it. It is not
poetry for poetry’s sake; it is writing with
intent to commit a poem. Often, too, it is
more a private affair than a poem. The
writer has seen or felt something, but he
cannot tell you how he felt it; all he can
convey is that he felt it. This often makes
for good and even entertaining verse, but
it can never be poetry. It gets past a lot,
as it has got past Mr. Hamilton in platoons,
because it often has in it a deceptive con-
ceit. Here is one—“ The Mechanical Age”
—that is typical of the commonplace, of the
private affair poem, and of the conceit that
aeceiveth (it is representative of about
half the book): —
’Twas six upon the farm-house clock,
And almost dark outside.
“What is that noise?” “It is the winds
That whinny as they ride.”
“ ’Tis not the winds that whinny so,
Thou man of volt and steel!
It is a herd of ghostly horse
That once sped plough and wheel.
“They wander through the autumn night,
And soon each tree they knew,
For their great sorrow, shall appear
Clad in their life-blood’s hue.”
It is a pretty sorry day for poetry when her
name can thus be taken in vain.
That, however, is the worst side of the
picture. “The Northern Lichts,” by Violet
Jacob—
The lift is fu’ o’ wings o’ lieht
Risin’ an’ deein’ doon
and her very beautiful “Tam i’ the Kirk”
are representative of the other side
There’s a »’eid rose lies on the Buik o’ the Word
afore re,
That was growin’ braw on its bush at the keek
o’ day,
But the lad that pu’d yon flow’er i’ the mornin’s
glory—
He canna pray.
He canna pray; but there’s nane i’ the kirk will
heed him
Whaur he sits sae still his lane by the side o’
the wa’,
For nane but the reid rose kens what my lassie
gie’d him—
It an’ us twa.
Ho caima sing for the sung that his ain he’rt raises,
Ho canna see for the mist time’s afore his eerr
And a voice drouns the hale o’ the psalms an’ the
paraphrases,
Cryin’, “Jean, Jean, Jean!”
“Main Dancing,” by Mary E. Boyle,
Hilton Brown’s poems in praise of dog
and some others make the book worth
stealing. Incidentally, Will H. Ogilvie is
represented with two brevities, very unlike
his Australian ripples and not to be com-
pared with the book’s best.
A Satchel of Books
Modern Science, by J. Arthur Thomson
(Methuen). A quick, handy survey of
science, with interesting side-glances at all
sorts of phenomena, from the sea-horse to
the snowy owl. The book is usefully illus-
trated, and helps to prove that a subject
commonly regarded as dead actually provides
most live reading.
Fairies and Fancies, by Ruth Bedford
(Black). The charm of . these children's
verses springs from the personal intimacy
their creator shares with her gnomes and
other such folk, aided by the sympathetic
color and line illustrations of Mela Koehler
Broman. Miss Bedford is a well-known
Australian contributor of ’ youngsters’ verse.
Gift books that can be looked in the mouth
without misgiving are Elbert Hubbard’s “A
Message to Garcia,” Emerson’s “Friendship”
essay and “Omar Khayyam,” excellently
printed in linen paper-covered booklet form
by Lothian, Melbourne. Each —cheap at 2s. —
has a neat colored cover-plate, and is packed
in a presentation box.
Wild Horse Mesa (Harpers: N.S.W.
Bookstall Co.) is the 23rd Zane Grey in this
genre, and students of cattle-ranching and
Piute Indians will find it as enthralling
as its predecessors. Inevitably Panquitch,
the mighty stallion “who was never born
to be roped,” wins back to freedom ; and in
doing so he provides the sentimental hero
with an inspiring, valedictory moral.
The Soul of China, by Richard Wilhelm
(Cape: Robertson and Mullens). Most writ-
ing about the troubled Republic being propa-
ganda from one side or the other, this inti-
mate domestic picture by a German of 2:>
years’ residence is valuable; ■ . The author
Sees the materialism of the West and the
intuitiveness of the East as mutually indis-
pensable ingredients of a world civilisation
which is to save mankind from destroying
itself.
On Mediterranean Shores, by Emil Lud-
wig (Allen and Unwin). This historian, bio-
grapher, novelist takes a busman’s holiday
along the coasts of Southern Europe. The
fruit of the trip is a collection of sparkling
travel chapters, which gain greatly from the
writer’s fine eye for the dramatic, and even
more from the fact that his intimacy with
the past gives every picture background.
What the eye sees he records briskly; what
the mind knows enlarges and enriches the
view.
The Laughing Queen (Harrap). E. Bar-
rington has turned Shakspeare’s enchanting
Egyptian into a sprightly modern flapper.
When Antony praises her dancing she
burbles: “You forget, most noble General,
that I am Venus and Hathor and Isis and
a few more importances in one small b,ody.”
Antony is presented as an insensitive lout,
who, when Cleopatra arrives in Rome, asks
Caesar: “How does the old girl—l mean the
noble Calpurnia—take it?” The rich Romans
of the period were, no doubt, display-loving
vulgarians, but in this book they are undi-
luted Hollywood.
The Fortunes of Richard Mahony, by
Henry Handel Richardson (Heinemann).
Republication after 14 years of these open-
ing chapters to the great trilogy only recently
concluded in “Ultima Thule” is yet another
reason why 1929 must be regarded as one
of the most important years in the develop-
ment of Australian prose. Anyone .who read
either the second or final books in the trilogy
should need no further guide to it. Its
quality is quite outstanding. For arrange-
ment, plot, description, dramatic force, nar-
rative powers generally, the work in its sep-
arate parts, and especially as a whole, stamps
the author unquestionably as one of the great-
est novelists Australia has produced. No
-question of “patriotism” arises in commend-
ing “Richard Mahony”; it is a novel that
should not be missed by anyone with a. taste
for good fiction.
Gift Books of the Maori, by James Cowan
(Fine Arts, N.Z., Ltd.). In collaboration
with ex-Minister Maui Pomare, Cowan, the
Domin oil’s leading literary authority on
Maori lore, has collected in four volumes
a rich treasury of legend, song and story,
with a particularly interesting section deal-
ing with art-craft and decoration. The
author obtained his material at first-hand
from Maoris of the older generation, and
though the present work is m no sense encylo-
ptedic—the field is surprisingly vast —it is
the most elaborate and extensive record of
the kind yet attempted. Stuart Peterson,
one of The Bulletin’s artist contributors,
has done a hundred illustrations, one of many
merits of which is their accuracy in every
detail of tribal fashion, art and tradition.
The work is issued tc subscribers only, with
a limit of 500 copies; price four guineas.
The Unequal Treaties: China and the
Foreigner, by Rodney Gilbert (Murray).
Fourteen years ago Gilbert reached China as
a commercial traveller. Later he became the
exceedingly wordy Peking correspondent of the
North China Daily News, and, although
an American, espoused the British point of
view w T ith even more enthusiasm than most
Britishers. His summing-up against New
China is bitterly hostile, and on the whole
convincing. The young leaders of the Republic
are, he believes, worse than the old manda-
rinate ; and if the safeguards for the white
man built up by the treaties are abolished,
foreign trade and common decency will be
driven from the country and the Chinese
themselves will relapse into chaos. It must
be remembered, however, that the author is
fighting only for the retention of privileges
held now by a few nationalities. The British
and Americans made no protest when China
fouk away the rights of the Germans, Rus-
sians, Austrians and other Europeans. If
a firm stand for the white man against the
yellow had been taken tlffen, the present
position might not have risen.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Migagi: Much obliged. Those wireless
stations at Woodlark and Misima which “Murkah”
left standing are hereby demolished. .. .8.F.: Verse
poor, but enthusiasm shared. We also had a little
on him.:. .W.0.H.: Will this spring "never pass?....
7.H.: Anyway, “Leaves Dripping” couldn’t put the
fire out G.0.L.: Too much of a huddle. ... V.N.:
Give it a slender chance. ... D.W.: Let the naughty
old man sleep... .P.C.: “Death —bereft.” Now,
please !... .Nanette: No, no !... .A.H.8.: Ideas miles
better than treatment... .G.F.M.: Well, we’ll bite.
What is it?....C.X.: Wish “The Rain that Sings in
the Mallee” would*transfer its noises to Canberra.
. ...J.L.W.: A musical setting might help it....
J.O’C.: Thanks, you’re right; but we' still don’t like
it. Try another.... D. A. B.: Not you !.... 0. City •
The “Shower of Gold” is gilt... .N.S.P.: A fragile
little thing, but you might place it elsewhere....
E. : You need some more years. .. .Z.V.W.: Similes
a trifle .worn... .0.H.G.: Too heavy in the feet
P.D.: Very close to a winner... .Melo D. : It put
the Religious Editor off his 11-o’clock bovril....
J.C.: Greeting:—-
Replace criminal scope with horrors hanging rope
And heed those faded cheeks that seldom dries;
Her only hope is our future vote
Adrift from pawn and party ties.
With worries waves and starving slaves
Darkest future we must meet,
Hostile to Satan’s servile knaves
Rescue fallen from the cloven feet.
. ...A.D.: Don’t fancy switchback verse.... Oriel:
Slight. . . .Oct: Last stanza would kill seven epics and
a rhinoceros... .D.J.S.: Don’t care for “A Frame-
up”.... J.M.: Broke two pruning knives on it....
M.K. IV: Parody needs to be a lot stronger than that.
. . . .Califoserb : Humdrum rhyming arrangement. . . .
L.R.: Review already in type... .Titun: That one
also. .. .G.C.P.: Not quite suitable... .T.E.: Only
cramped space keeps at out... .1.5. M.: Can’t let any
more into the ring for that scrap. .. .A.R.D.F.: But
the prize novels have been highly praised by every
English critic of importance. Ypu must have mis-
read something, surely Eucumbene: Nothing to
be afraid of; but it does not answer his arguments.
... .Splurge: Only nursery verse... .A.S.F.: Tall, even
for a fish yarn.... Swiss : Humor is all in the trans-
lation. .. .P. A. W.: Re-written version not more
acceptable... . A.('.W.: Be&ten on the post.... J.8.C.:
“Henry’s Luck” is out... . A.G.: Stretches the arm of
coincidence too far W. 8.: Storm in a billycan
F. : Moral retained; story returned... .W.D.J.: So
you are “starting into the writing business.” Business
shows no immediate prospect of a profit J.A.N.:
Surprise attack repulsed 5.8. R.:. “Impromptu”
rejected deliberately... .R.S.: Spelling weak, com-
position weaker, subject matter weakest F.C.:
The flaming jewel is paste A.S.F.: Bootlegger
legging it home J.8.C.: No piquancy in the
“Sauce of Adventure” O.O.: A better handling
of the topic already spiked J.R.: Well, you’ve
said it yourself :
When I would fain my soul express
In words of gifted eloquence,
With stilted phrase my pen replies
And mocks me with a poor pretence.
. ...M.E.S.: Would need to be a tenth the length
and a dozen times better... .C.E.G.: “Change” fails
to win any of ours.... Fanner’s Wife: Yes, it was
different from the usual hackneyed spring song; but
it had no other merit.. . .H.M.H.: Everything pub-
lished is paid for; yours misses. .. .N.P.: Contains
nothing to our taste. .. . E.N.; “Enclosing the last
I will tempt you with, and echo records ‘Thank
God!’” That’s the worst of wireless. But don’t
get one of those lookie machines... .A.T.8.: Not
compact enough for our use. . . .Notof: Publication of
prize stories should begin in April. Vance Palmer’s
“Men Are Human” will have the stage from the
middle'of January till then. . . .M.A.M.: Opens well,
then fades away. .. .Gitup : Too local ; when you’re
writing for Tiie B. you’ve always got to ;e k whether
the stuff will interest Australia. What “will he read
with great interest in our town” is no good if the
eyes of a thousand other towns merely slip off it.
. ...L.McL.: “Storm Horses” among the also-rans.
.... W. W.: You don’t bring home the 1) icon with the
“Flying Pigs”.... Visitor: “Who’ll Fill the Gap?”
Might we suggest poets?... .S.W.K.: “Victory” was
inaptly named. .. .1.F.: A little care might have
got it there. ... J.M.E.: Overcrowded with Christmas
sweets. .. .R.C.H.: “The Gesture” is returned....
L. 8.: Don’t like either subjects or style... .W.G.R.:
No fruit for the flying-foxes. . . .N.S.M.: Not a sparkle
in it....T.M.: “He had come home to die,” and it
was all as cheerful as that. ... W.D.S.: Don’t know
of a “Webster’s Standard Dictionary.” There’s
“Webster’s New International Dictionary” (G. and
E. Merriman, Springfield, U.S.A., '£6 65.) ; and
there’s a “Webster’s Imperial Dictionary” (Saal-
field Publishing Co., U.S.A., 505.) ; the “Inter-
national” is the work generally known as “Webster’s.”
....Mt. Gam: R. A. Crouch was Liberal M.H.R. for
Corio in the first three Commonwealth Parliaments;
he was beaten in 1910 by Alf Ozanne (Labor). He
joined the Labor party after, the war... .1.M.H.:
Would be pleased to see extracts, without promising
to republish. .. .Mid Ocean: Siection 53 covers it:
“The Senate may not amend proposed laws imposing
taxation, or proposed laws appropriating revenue
or moneys for the ordinary annual services of the
Government.” It could certainly amend a bill pro-
posing the establishment of another Commonwealth
line of steamers.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.K,: You’re a promising draughtsman, but the
humor is a bit weak as yet....E.L.: Don’t like
microscopic pencil work. . . .R.L.: The urchins are
du11... .H.M.C.: No bids for these birds... .11.C.5.:
If your talent equalled your optimism you’d e a
world-beater D.W.: Too stark; but keep on try-
ing. .. .T.C.: A feeble pun and the year’s worst draw-
ing. .. .R.S. A.: There were many other slips besides
those you covered over with Chinese white. . . .L.E.:
Took half an hour to unpack it; five seconds to
reject it....P.C.: Shaky linework, arid not a gleam
in the gags... .A.R.P.: We “get them ugly,” too —
sketches, not wives. .. .R.R.: Aimless art, and a
ghastly pun.


d
is
w
Great Western
# /
/ i
,
X
x
v' *
m
a
/
*pt
r
M
3
::
X •-•
MN
:
m
■
■
■ :X&y
<y" v
ms
■
mmmm
m
‘ ’1
o
mm mnm
w.
/


The Bulletin
Vol. 50.-—N0.2393.
October 33, 1939.
THE TAIL OF THE PROCESSION.
“The arrival of Mr. Seullin was a Labor gala-day at Canberra.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the While Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
ZV( George Street, Sydney; Box 252188.
Victoria : 11J/-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 2//9 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Regent 5193.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
5 months, Is.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: JOoz., Id. United Kingdom■■ joz. to 10oz., lid.;
eadi additional \oz., Id. All Sea Route: IGoz., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: ioz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
THE £2OOO PRIZE STORY COMPETITION .. 2
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS WANTED—
By A. G. Stephens .. .. .. .. 2
TOLSTOY AND HIS WIFE—
By Aylmer Maude, sec. to the Tolstoy
Society . . . . . . • • 2, 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ..5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
Our Ruinous Railways . 8
THE GOLDEN MILE—KALGOORLIE—
As seen to-day by E. M. Tildesley .. 8
HOW BRUCE GOES OUT 8
BONDY HOARE AND THE BIG SHILLELAGH 8
CORONERS’ COURTS 9
QUEENSLAND’S GREAT PROBLEM . . . . 9
A Billy Hughes Cartoon by Percival 9
POLITICAL POINTS 10
POVERTY POINT 11
“THE KEY OF THE CUPBOARD CHANGES
HANDS,” a cartoon by Scorfield . . . . 11
PERSONAL (with caricatures of new M’s.P.). . 13
SOCIETY (with drawings) . . . . . . 14, 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..16
A CHANCE FOR REAL DRAMA . . . . 16
WILKIE’S “SCHOOL FOR SCANDAL” . . 16
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 18, 20
A Warning to Small Investors • ■ 18
INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT .. . . 18
OASTLEMAINE PERKINS 13
TRUFOOD CO 18
ABORICINALITIES (with drawings) .. 23, 25
Free Service Department • • .. 26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 31
WHAT’S THE VALUE OF STUBBLE ? . . 28
THE DRIFT-SAND PROBLEM 28
HORSE V. TRACTOR . . 28
SPRING AND SUMMER PRUNING .. . . 31
PEANUT GROWING 31
SMOKE-OH 32
THE NEGLECTED GOLDMINE, by J.B.D. . . 32
PEN AND PICTURE 35
ART SHOWS 35
THE INKY WAY 35
BUSINESS, ROBBERY . . .. . . . . 36
SPORTING (illustrated) .. .. ..39, 41, 42
Caulfield Cup 39
CITY TATT.’S, RANDWICK 39
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER .. .. •• 45
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 48
THE CUP CARNIVAL 18
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 50
“PARADISE PLUMES” .. .. 47, 51, 52
TWO COMPLETE SHORT STORIES—
THE DIPLOMATIC SOUL,
By Osmar E. White . . .. . ■ 55, 57
THE DREAMCHILD, by Harold Mercer 57, 58
VERSE—By Ethel Davies, Furnley Maurice,
E. J. Brady 52, 58
Next Week.
SPECIAL RACE FORECASTS.
A DAVID McKEE WRIGHT LITERARY
SECTION.
Many fine hitherto unpublished stories and poems
by David Wright, with a drawing of the poet by
David Low, a photograph and a critical survey.
NOVEMBER 6.
The Cheerful Serial, “Merry Christmas!” starts.
[For all matter in this issue requiring a signature
under the Commonwealth Electoral law, where it
is not otherwise specified S. H. Prior, J. E. Webb
and James Edmond, all of 214 George-street, Syd-
ney, accept the responsibility.]
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1929.
OUR RUINOUS RAILWAYS.
Last year the N.S.W. railways became the
worst money-losing set in a continent where
public works exist to swallow money and
provide jobs. Though Queensland’s lines
went to the pack financially as early as
1916, those of the Ma State had spells
of partial prosperity down to 1925—ti1l
swamped by awards of the Federal Arbi-
tration Court, by State awards, Child En-
dowment bills, new sinking fund payments,
the unexpected demand that they should
pay interest on the cost of unfinished works,
and a lot of sundries, which are in the
nature of making Peter’s deficit look 2d.
better by making Paul’s shortage 6d. worse.
In defence the Commissioners added to
their report a few comparative statistics.
For example:—
Of 12 railway systems, 11 of them State-
owned —those of South Africa, Germany,
Canada (the national as distinct from pri-
vate lines), United Kingdom, Maoriland, six
Australian States and the Commonwealth —
South Africa is at the top. As regards the
other 11, N. S. Wales, Victoria and the
United Kingdom are equal, earnings being
ahead of legitimate working expenses by £3
16s. sd. per cent, for the last available year.
But whereas the United Kingdom has no
deficit at all, N. S. Wales has one of no less
than £1,839,386. This is due to the fact
that N.S.W. has to pay its cumulative pre-
ference shareholders (the money borrowed is
all cumulative preference) about £5 3s. p.c.
per annum whether it is earned or not; and
this nightmare constantly becomes worse.
Further, according to the Commissioners:—
In 1914 the amount collected for hump-
ing a ton of goods 100 miles on the N. S.
Wales railways was 7s. 3d., and the system
showed a profit (earnings over working ex-
penses and interest) of £242,926. In 1921
the charge (one ton of goods 100 miles)
was 9s. 2d., and the _ system, after paying
working expenses and interest, showed a loss
of £577,032. In 1928 the charge for humping
the same old ton over the same old 100
miles was 135., and the loss was £1,609,267.
Of explanations there are plenty. A ridi-
culous quantity of new railway (1900 miles
inside 14 years) was built in the State
between 1914 and 1928, chiefly in order to
buy popularity for politicians. The cost
of construction was high because it was a
time of awards and general benevolence,
and an absurdly large proportion of the new
works never paid for axle ointment. Also
the new loan money was raised at sensa-
tional prices, because it was held to be a
sin to build anything save out of loans,
though baby bonuses and child endowments
might come out of taxes; and old loans were
renewed at insane prices, because there was
no sinking fund to help meet the liability
when it fell due, though a belated one has
started, now that there is nothing but the
deficit to put in it. When, instead of paying
31 per cent, on £12,000 (the cost of each mile,
new and old, of N. S. Wales line just before
the boom), it became a matter of paying
over 5 per cent, on about £20,000 (the
average cost per mile in 1928), even the
increase of the freight charge from 7s. 3d.
to 13s. naturally failed to meet the case.
Each mile of railway was called upon to
earn £528 interest in 1914, and £1097 interest
and sinking fund in 1928. With such
drunken and chronic incompetence at the
Treasury, decent results are impossible.
Now the interest rate for an Australian
loan in London has risen from per cent,
to 62, temporarily at least, so the air is
full of more possibilities.
A familiar cry is raised that younger men
are wanted to occupy the Commissioners’
chairs. Younger interest is much more
important; 6i per cent, is a great deal too
old.
It is a purely Australian feature that,
though money apparently can’t be found for
railway-building except out of loans, money
is found, the Federal authority bearing a
hand, without loans, to build or to greatly
improve main roads which run parallel to
the lines and take business away from them.
At least six millions of Federal shortage is
due to the spending of money in doing as
much damage as possible to State-owned
loan railways.
At present there are 42 railways or sec-
tions of railway whose closure would save
the N. S. Wales Treasury £368,000 per
annum on the latest figures, even though
the interest bill would remain. About four-
fifths of the really bad samples are dead-
ends or stumps with either very poor pro-
spects or no prospects at all, especially in
the face of motor competition. Forty-eight
money-losing lines or sections, including
some which are still short of the point at
which absolute closure would pay, are shown
as having made bigger losses last year than
the year before, though new methods of
accountancy may partly explain this. When
one line of 268 miles changes from a profit
of £15,786 to a loss of £46,018 inside 12
months there is room for explanation. Far
too many of the most lamentable specimens
were completed within the last half-dozen
years, when there was no lack of evidence
that the boom had been absurdly overdone.
The Bulletin makes three suggestions.
One is the closure of a selection of the
worst, to save the loss on working, though
the interest incubus will stay. (Said interest
is £6,150,000 a year, which is £2,100,000
more than it was in 1922, and the new sink-
ing fund makes it £6,476,952, so it is a
weighty object.) The second is a weeding
out of partially-finished undertakings, some
of which look quite as bad as the finished
ones.* That would save loss on working and
part of the interest. The third is an
abandonment of the new-railway habit for
a term of years, despite the reckless promises
of half-Premier Buttenshaw that his
Cabinet has a rousing programme of country
dead-ends in view. That would save loss
on working, the whole of the interest and
the sinking fund into the bargain.
THE GOLDEN MILE.
Miss Tildesley, the author oj this
article, visited Westralia as a member
of the Federal Council of the National
Council of Women.
As the “Transcontinental” pursued its
arrow-straight way through the desert we
were told—by a Westralian, too —that Kal-
goorlie was nearing the inevitable end of all
gold-rush cities. “Mining is a decaying
industry; this is becoming a pastoral
centre.” But the verdict, innocently quoted
in the city itself, was greeted with shouts of
derision. And when we motored round, the
only sign of shrinkage was here and there
in the outer suburbs, where, it is true, hotels
have been delicensed and gutted and houses
abandoned save by a few old-time pros-
pectors. Otherwise Kalgoorlie bears all
the marks of vigorous persistence. All life
is, no doubt, a progress toward death; but
here there is still some waji to go.
It was, as the Mayoress apologised, the
day after the party. The train that was to
take us on to Perth had attached to it the
vice-regal car, which had done duty for a
Government House during Centenary fes-
tivities. But in the spring sunshine the town
lay trim and purposeful, ready to begin
again its work of adding to the riches of
the world.
Our first visits were to the two race-
courses, so lately thronged for the Kal-
goorlie and Boulder Cups. The water
brought up from Mundaring Weir 400 miles
away has made possible a riot of gay
blooms, and all the year round these courses,
together with the green and shady park in
the heart of the town, serve as playgrounds
for children and form oases amid red dust.
The goldfields have seized the occasion
of the State Centenary to honor their
founder Patrick Hannan. A tree fenced in
with a white palisade, on it a simple inscrip-
tion, marks the spot where he found the first
nugget; and at a corner of the main street,
seated on a boulder, is his effigy in bronze,
complete with pickaxe and water-bag. This
latter is converted into a drinking-fountain
round which children cluster all day long.
As art the statue might be condemned as
too realistic by our modernists; but even
they would not go unrewarded for a visit to
Kalgoorlie, since in the vast dumps, white
and grey, along the ridge they would find
design and significant form in subjects for
etchings and woodcuts comparable to Syd-
ney Harbor bridge.
The Golden Mile has produced one
hundred million pounds’ worth of gold since
it was opened up in 1893. Recently' there
has been some depression, but the new wet
process, which will retrieve fine gold hitherto
lost, has roused high hopes and may make
it payable not only to continue mining but
to go through the dumps a second time.
The goldfields made the West, and the men
who made the goldfields were men indeed.
There was a great gathering of Old Gold-
fielders for the Centenary. The Mayor,
Alderman Leslie, is himself a pioneer. He
has spent 35 years in his beloved city, and
has many tales to tell of the days when
the first Progress Committee was formed
and the ordered life of a community
assumed tentative shape. The Town Hall
—a substantial building with a well-
equipped little theatre —has materials for
a local museum. In the council chamber
among portraits of civic fathers hangs Han-
nan’s miner’s right, and the Mayor points
with pride to the group of local war heroes:
of Australia’s first four V.C.’s two came
from Kalgoorlie.
Organised Labor is extremely strong in
mining life; the A.W.U. and the A.L.P., one
notes, had each official representation on
the committee that arranged Goldfields
Week, whereas there was apparently no one
to be spokesman for other political creeds.
But there is no foothold out west for the
Third International. During the war two of
its emissaries, plentifully provided with
funds, opened an office in the town. A
group of citizens promptly engaged a car-
riage in a south-bound train, put the Com-
munists in it under escort, and told them
what would happen if they showed their
faces there again. They never have.
From before the beginnings of history, so
learned professors tell us, the most power-
ful agency in the spread of civilisation has
been the impulse to search for gold. Cer-
tainly the gold-rushes, attracting as they
did men with the enterprise, hardihood and
self-reliance of prospecting pioneers, have
contributed valuable elements to the fusing
of an Australian nation. At this moment
the Goldfielders have an example to offer
to our capital cities in municipal economics:
for one of the photographs on the Mayor’s
walls illustrates the handing over of the
cheque that repaid the last instalment of
the municipal loan. The council owns many
thousands of pounds’ worth of property, all
clear of debt.
E. M. TILDESLEY.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
How Bruce Goes Out.
Victorious in the constituencies only 11
months ago, returned with a big majority
in both Houses, Stanley Melbourne Bruce
has now lost his Prime Ministership, the
leadership of the Nationalist party and the
Flinders seat at one blow. And all because
he took the hard road in preference to the
easy road—because he saw where his duty
lay and tried to do it. It is no encourage-
ment to other heads of Governments to
imperil themselves for their principles.
Mr. Bruce has been over-exalted by his
panegyrists, but he deserved their praise
better than he ever did the furious cam-
paign of hate of which he has been the
victim. In character and constructive
ability he stands head and shoulders above
his bitterest detractors. As Prime Minister
he never spared himself, nor did he ever
give the nation cause to blush for him or to
ask cynically how much he got out of this
transaction or that. He was a worker and
a fighter, and he has gone down fighting;
but his hands are clean. The feeling against
him is too fierce to last, and he will come
again—perhaps sooner than many people
think. For while his troubles are over for
the time being, those of the triumphant
prrty—in which there are obvious elements
of weakness—are only beginning.
*
The New Ministry.
No matter how generously the gentlemen
opposite may treat it, and no matter how
cordial the good wishes of the vast majority
outside, the Commonwealth’s new Labor
Ministry can expect no smooth passage. It
enters upon its task handicapped by the
deficit of five millions, the state of the
money market, Mr. Theodore’s election
pledges (“Labor will re-open the coalmines
and abolish the amusement-tax,”) a Left
Wing already clamorous for the spoils, and
a hostile majority in the Senate.
A further disadvantage is that the Prime
Minister and all the members of his party
are new to Federal office. Certainly Messrs.
Theodore, Lyons, Guy and McTiernan
have had administrative experience in their
several States. Mr. Theodore was Premier
of Queensland, and Mr. Lyons Premier of
Tasmania, for some years. But running the
Commonwealth, especially when there are
27 Nationalist-Cocky Senators, and no hope
in the wide world of abolishing the Senate,
is a much harder job. And in any case, it
was impossible for all the gentlemen with
State experience to be picked for portfolios.
Men like Messrs. Anstey, Brennan, Fen-
ton, McGrath, Moloney, Edward Riley,
Watkins and Green strove for Labor in
its darkest days and had first claim for
reward.
But nearly all these gentlemen are beyond
the age at which a new job can be readily
learned. For 13 years their party has been
condemned to a sterile opposition. Attack-
ing the Government has become a settled
habit with all of them, and three months
ago it seemed certain that attack would
continue to be their rather dismal role
until the end of 1931 at least. Now these
destructive critics grown elderly have to try
to become constructive statesmen. They
have been suddenly called upon to guide
the destinies of the nation in times as try-
ing as it has ever experienced. Trained
only to pull down, they have of necessity
now undertaken to build up—to shape
policies on a multitude of subjects, arrive
at Ministerial decisions, and defend them in
Parliament and in the country. It is not
the way to get the best out of them, from
the party’s standpoint or the Common-
wealth’s.
Perhaps before long Mr. Scullin will be
driven to admit that there is a lot to be
said for Elective Ministries. Experience in
an Elective Ministry would have saved at
least some of his colleagues from the vexa-
tions incident to floundering in unfamiliar
parts. As it is, the necessary experience
will be painfully and expensively acquired;
and the people will have to stand the racket.
—— +
Bondy Hoare and the Big Shillelagh.
Some of the reasons why what used to be
a coalmining industry at Maitland in N. S.
Wales now isn’t one were unfolded before
the Coal Commission recently by Bondy
Hoare, president of the northern miners.
He admitted that miners had gone on strike
possibly hundreds of times in the last seven
years, boasted that members of his union
would down tools without even consulting
their officers about it, and gave it as his
serious and considered opinion that laws
and agreements were made to be broken.
The contract system, he said, compelled the
men to speed up to such an extent that
they welcomed “spell days,” and in some
places they were idle two-thirds of the year
—truly a remarkable “industry.”
A suggestion by H. C. Morton, of the
Colliery Mechanics’ Association, that trouble
could be smoothed over by a board within
the trade, representing both sides, didn’t
find favor with Mr. Hoare. His principal
grievance seemed to be that other workers
didn’t follow the miners out of the pits
whenever the need for a vacation assailed
them, and his remedy for all the distresses
to which coalmining is heir was simply
“one big union”—in plain Irish, a bigger
shillelagh.
It is unfortunate for the northern miners
that they should have so naive a leader.
Technically they have a good case. For
once in a way they are not on strike, but
have been locked out, and assurances have
been given on their behalf that they are.
prepared to resume work on the terms pre-
scribed by the tribunal that governs con-
ditions in their calling. Their case might
very well be allowed to rest there. But
men like Bondy Hoare are not prepared to
let anything rest anywhere. He has nothing
to offer but threats of fight and an assur-
ance that his union won’t honor its under-
takings. .
In the meantime mine-workers and then-
wives and kiddies are living on the State’s
charity and having a pretty thin time. They
can live only once, and it looks as though
they would waste a lot of their lives fol-
lowing Mr. Hoare, who isn’t going any-
where, through a drab wilderness in which
the ravens who provide the manna are the
long-suffering taxpayers of the State.
There might be something ahead of them
if there was any power anywhere to com-
pel employers to pursue unlucrative enter-
prises; unhappily for Bondy’s dupes there
is no ’ power vested in anybody or any-
thing to compel them to do anything of
the kind.
Meantime something else is happening.
Employers who could afford to pay all the
wage? demanded of them are holding back
waiting for the Bondy Hoares to smash the


STILL LOOKING FOR THAT BETTER ’OLE.
“The outcome is that the irresponsible Mr. Hughes, who precipitated the contest, is now more completely bereft of political allies than in the whole of his picturesque
Parliamentary history.” —Manchester GUARDIAN.
unions or cripple certain mines beyond
repair or drown them beyond resuscitation.
Then these employers will resume opera-
tions in their own mines and make fortunes.
Anyhow, that is how things seem to be
shaping.
♦
Coroners’ Courts.
According to a London cable:—
“The whole Press is discussing the powers
of the Coroner’s Court in the light of the
Reading inquest. The Daily Telegraph
expresses the opinion that the rules of evi-
dence should be the same in all courts.”
The Telegraph’s opinion has been held
for years by most people who are not
the slaves of ancient precedent.
Here are some of the many undesirable
things that are liable to happen, and often
do happen, under our system, which allows
coroners to range at length in the effort to
decide for or against a suspected murderer’s
guilt :
Because the Coroner is not bound by rules
of evidence, his random investigations are
more exciting than the proceedings at a
criminal trial, and the murder press gives
them proportionate publicity. The truths,
half-truths, rumors and lies —some relevant,
some very much otherwise—which he elicits
are discussed by thousands, with the result
that the minds of at least some of the jurors
at the trial are made up before it begins.
Sympathy is often aroused by this injus-
tice, and it is a punctilious defender indeed
who is above exploiting it, or even, when
matters look very black for his client and
sympathy does not exist, trying to create it.
One who is committed by a Coroner and
acquitted by a Judge and jury never gets
over the first misfortune. Many newspaper
readers do not learn of the acquittal. They
read about the “conviction” in the more
spectacular court, and ignore the proceedings
in the only jurisdiction that matters.
It is right that Coroners’ inquiries should
be exhaustive; but they should be directed
solely to ascertaining the cause of death. It
is not a Coroner’s legitimate business to
pronounce on the guilt or innocence of
anybody.
A measure embodying this principle (the
Coroner’s Act Amendment Bill) was to have
been put through by the late Baldwin Gov-
ernment. It would have prevented the
Reading scandal, and it would be well if
our State Parliaments went in for a similar
reform before Australia has another Colin
Ross case.
4
Queensland’s Great Problem.
In the latter days of the Labor regime
Queensland closed 142 miles of railway
(Almaden to Forsyth) for the reason that
the working expenses were over three times
the earnings, that the position was becom-
ing worse, and that, floods having almost
wrecked the line, it was out of the ques-
tion to rebuild it. Following up this pre-
monitory event it is announced that an
extensive abandonment of hopeless branches
is. inevitable. They are losing big sums,
and, as they become due for big repairs and
new rolling stock, and years of neglected
depreciation comes home to roost, and big
loans aren’t procurable, something must be
done:
The dire need everywhere in Australia is
for more manufactures and less imports,
and not for more loan railways which live
on subsidies out of revenue. Unfortunately
factory industry tends to slow down, one
reason being greatly increased taxation, and
one cause of the increased taxation is
the demand for money to subsidise railways.
During the two years 1926-27 and 1927-28
the number of employees in Australian fac-
tories increased by 13,276; that is to say,
they increased by 16,327 in 1926-27, when
the position was still moderately good, and
decreased by 3051 in 1927-28, when the
results of freak legislation became specially
apparent. Taking the two years together
the results were:—
Two Years’ Two Years’
Increase Decrease
in Factory in Factory
Employees. Employees.
N. S. Wales .. 8559 S. Australia .. 6
Victoria.. .. 7398 Westralia .. 834
Tasmania .. 1174 Queensland .. 3015
That made a total increase of 13,276,
Queensland being the most lamentable ex-
ception. But taking 1928-29 separately the
position was much worse:—
One Year’s One Year’s
Decrease Increase
in Factory in Factory
Employees. Employees.
8. Australia .. 2119 Tasmania .. 651
Victoria .. 1282 Westralia .. 884
Queensland .. 652
N. S. Wales .. 533
That made a net decrease of 3051, and
showed that the collapse had really set
in. When the figures for 1928-29, covering
the period of the timber strike and the
coal stoppage, come to hand, the results are
expected to be much worse.
Queensland, as a consistent backslider,
has issued notice that it will be necessary
to jettison some of its burdens. With 15
consecutive railway deficits behind it, the
need for setting the example was fairly
obvious.
*
Elective Ministries.
Dear Bulletin, — “Sol M.’s” observation
(B. 2/10/’29) about the cowlike calm of
Swiss politics is very wide of the mark. I
know of no other country where public
questions are so keenly and intelligently
discussed. But the point is that these are
honestly debated on their merits or demerits,
as the Elective Ministry,has put it out of
the power of political humbugs and mounte-
banks to use them for their own selfish
ends. If we can achieve such a change in
our public life, its cowlike calm will be a
most decided improvement on the bull-
bellowings of manufactured election crises.
The United States’ system of appointing
Ministers who are outside Parliament is
regarded with approval by friend “Sol.”
This method of relieving the Government
from Parliamentary control, invented by
the reactionary Alexander Hamilton, is
regarded by most American jurists as a
serious defect of the Federal Constitution,
but its Australian protagonist suggests that
it keeps schemers and plotters out of office.
And this in a country where' spoils to the
victors is a recognised -political practice!
The schemers and spell-binders who get
their man elected President have to be
rewarded, and if they cannot all get office
there are other ways of meeting the obli-
gation, as the recent disclosures of Teapot
Dome Oil and other scandals demonstrate.
I agree that Australia is substantially a
one-party nation, as there are no hard and
fast lines dividing us. And if we are a
wrong party, as “Sol M.” says, the way to
put us right is to get us out of the hands
and the toils of those who are using us and
the party system to reach office, or to stay
there, without regard to their fitness for
the position. The present system of col-
lective Cabinet responsibility means that
one or two capable administrators often
carry on their shoulders others who, even
by members of their own party, are
admitted (in private) to be failures. And,
speaking again from my own experience,
those same members will just as readily
admit (again in private) the outstanding
capacity of certain of the Opposition. Why
should not members of Parliament, as part
of their job, exercise their judgment in
filling the administrative positions with the
best men? “But would they do it?” asks
doubting Thomas. To that I reply: Put
the responsibility on them. If they don’t
accept it, if they vote for the wrong men,
it is for the electors to deal with them.
Apart from such safeguard, I feel sure, if
members were given this duty, they would
honorably execute it. Even under the pre-
sent system the elected Speaker or President
is usually a worthy choice. This much could
be said with confidence for the new method:
It would not give us so many round pegs
in square holes, and sometimes rotten pegs
at that.
x It is undeniable that our Parliamentary
institutions are degenerating. More and
more the business of the country is being
subordinated to party considerations. States-
men like Baker, first President of the
Senate, and Holder, first Speaker of the
House of Representatives, both with long
Parliamentary experience and temperament-
ally Conservative, advocated Elective
Ministries as the only cure for the_ evil.
Opposition to the reform comes principally
from party tacticians in Parliament and out
of it, and their unavowed reason is that of
the silversmiths of Ephesus to Paul’s
teaching, their craft is in danger. Strange
it is that “Sol M.,” who hates them like
poison, should place his armory of argument
at their disposal.—Yours, etc., J. M. Fowler.
*
A Dangerous Amendment.
Chief-Secretary Chaffey (N.S.W.) pro-
poses to amend the Vagrancy Act by sub-
stituting “female” for “prostitute” in the
phrase “whosover... .being a prostitute
solicits in any public place.” A similar
amendment was inserted in the English
Criminal Law Amendment Bill in 1917.
Clause 111 empowered the police to arrest
any girl on the assertion of a bystander
that she had solicited or was loitering for
that purpose. The House, however, deleted
the phrase “woman or girl” and substituted
“known prostitute” because it was convinced
that thousands of girls had in all inno-
cence, and mainly as the result of the war,
adopted new social conventions. The same
truth applies in Australia. Thousands of
working girls, some of them the most virtu-
ous and self-respecting in the land, are so
situated socially that they would never meet
desirable young men at all if “glad eyes”
and badinage were forbidden,
At the best, if the Bavin Government’s
amendment, becomes law, undesirable power
be g j ven to meddlesome Paul Prys to
make nuisances of themselves; and at the
worst a road w m be opened to ruinous
po ii ce mistakes and the worst form of
blackmail
The out _ of _ date dev i ce hasn’t even the
justification of being likelv to diminish,
uch ]egs st the “social evil.” It has
been d ( ‘ )Untle ss times that the only
/ country can i essen its standing army
of ' treet women is by avoiding strikes and
increagi production. The prostitute is
h hall .^ a i rk of poverty .
A
* " ~
Cutting Up the Big Melon.
“Feng-Shui”: The friendly arrangement
whereby Uncle Sam, without relinquishing
possession, hands over the Turtle Islands to
Britain for administration is an interesting
exa mple of the new spirit in international
relations created by the mandates system.
. % , , , ~ ,
Th e Islands of which the
Turtles are a part, form the biggest island
group in the Malay Archipelago, They
sprawl over 16 degrees of latitude and
nine of longitude, and comprise over 7000
separate bits of earth, only 466 of which
are more than a square mile in area. On
the outer fringes piracy still flourishes in
a mild way. There was a case when I was
in. the vicinity in 1913 and another when I
was there again in 1924. There are places
to which white men never go. The sea
gypsies, descendants of the Ulanun buc-
caneers, whose three-decker prahus manned
with slave-rowers gave Rajah Brooke so
much trouble, potter to and fro, picking up
a bit of trade, or maybe a bit of plunder,
as they go. The sea being their home from
cradle to ocean burial, they claim to be
subjects of neither queen, president nor king,
There is a vast no-man’s land between
the possessions of Uncle Sam and those
of Britain and the Netherlands which it is
impossible to police effectively from distant
Manila. Time was when a proposal to
hand over even such insignificant territories
as these to a foreign Power would have
roused the national pride in all its fan-
tagtic fury . But the mandates system is
gradually accustoming imperial nations to
the idea of colonial government as trustee-
ship rather than as possession. Every time
the League questions the conduct of a man-
datory, there is a prompt display of national
fee mg and the charges are denied. But it
will generally be found that, if there is ground
or complaint, the mandatory Go\em-
ment immediately sets to work to put mat.
ters right so that the slate will be clean when,
Uie sessi °n of the League comes along,
In consigning a bit of his Philippines
dominion to Britain, Uncle Sam is really
giving Father Bull a private mandate. It
is only a small thing, but it is at least a
minor indication that the Great Powers
which have divided up the globe are adopt-
ing a more civilised attitude towards the
business of sharing the melon.


OAEL/c
ggSSKS
m&k
RED, WHITE and BLUE
WHISKY
Gaelic Special Reserve
DEARER— BUT BETTER
ORME, KEIGWIN & CO., LTD.
269-271 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN AGENTS: JAMES HENTY & CO., 499 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: B. SEPPELT & SONS, LTD., 444 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
g^euc
lAL ■ RES
mm?
POLITICAL
POINTS
Redistribution of seats would have saved
Bruce in Flinders. It is a mystery why
Wonthaggi, a coalmining district 86i miles
from the city, was ever tacked on to Mel-
bourne suburbs like Ivanhoe, Surrey Hills
and Box Hill, distant respectively 6f, 7f
and 9| miles from the G.P.0.; a greater
mystery why the Nationalists did not press
for an alteration of boundaries, seeing that
Flinders has 66,536 electors and Melbourne
only 42,336. There are about 4500 people
in Wonthaggi, and they voted six to one for
the Labor man. And that’s how the favorite
was beat.
Please, Mr. Wren, don’t think of it as
the Scullion Ministry!
London Financial News explained the
situation here by saying that the late elec-
tion was a struggle between enlightened
Freetraders and Protectionists soaked m
darkness. It seems that the Protectionist
devil won, and is now in power, horns, hoofs
and tail. In consequence our only prospect is
increased unemployment, high prices, budget
deficiencies and dwindling markets. As
regards the last there has never been any
lack of foreign markets for what we have
to sell, but we never have enough to sell,
and prices aren’t so high as we would like.
But a market that we can rely on is the Aus-
tralian one, and any devil who will attend
to that is a good enough devil for us.
Frank Anstey.
Nearly all the
dailies ieft Anstey
out of their Labor
Cabinet forecasts.
Anstey is 64,
and his health is
not as good as
it was; but if he
wants office and
doesn’t get it there
will be trouble. He
is never so formid-
able as when posing
as the candid
friend; nothing did
more t p bring
down the Fisher
Government i n
1913 than a speech
in which he said,
“The Labor party
is marching to its
Sedan.” Perhaps
the compliment of
being invited to
join the Ministry
would be enough
for the veteran.
A majority is an uncertain animal, and
the Nationalist failure in Australia is only
one episode in a crowd. The British Union-
ist Government majority of 134 in 1900
turned into a Liberal Government majority
of 356 in 1906. Then the election of 1923
returned 156 Liberals, and that of 1924
reduced them to 39. Even Billy Hughes
might fail to tell why the phlegmatic Briton
varies like this, though if the variation was
against Billy’s party. Billy would split the
heavens with accusations of foul play.
A promise too definite for misunderstand-
ing was that the Scullin Ministry, if J
eventuated, would settle the coal stoppage
inside 14 days—to the satisfaction of the
miners, it was, of-course, understood. Hie
14 days could hardly begin to run till Octo-
ber 21, the dare fixed for the change oi
Ministry, but Theodore began interviewing
the parties on Wednesday, the 16th. By Sun-
day it was announced (1) that the engineers
had resolved to make the strike general, it
they could, and (2) that five unassociated
collieries had been thrown idle. If progress
continues at that pace the millennium will
be here in no time.
Though N.S.W. railway officers have been
invited to apply for the two vacant com-
missionerships it is given out that the
Government may go beyond the service tor
a chief. But why should it? Surely a
suitable choice could be made without de-
priving the service of such a spur to ambition
and robbing men of the promotion for which
they have worked. Judged by results the
most successful railway appointment ot
recent years was that of the Westralian
Pope. Pope was taken from the Commis-
sioner’s office; and his administration was
efficient and profitable.
There are politicians
who are not affected by
the caprices of con-
stituencies. Hunt e r ,
Country-party M.H.R. for
Mai'anoa (Q.), is one.
At five elections Hunter
has been on top in a
division which was Labor
for 20 years— i.e., till the
death of Jim Page. He
is generally a couple of
thousand behind when the
returning-officer closes
down on election-night,
but the out-back boxes
always put him a couple
of thousand ahead. He
gets support from small
farmers and graziers who
vote for State Labor
candidates as a rule.
Hunter takes the defeat
of the pact parties philo-
sophically, and predicts
that Bruce will come
again.
Over-excitement at the
Federal election results
may explain why Vic.
Opposition-leader Hogan
Hunter,
of Maranoa.
accused Premier McPherson, who is manag-
ing director of a big engineering firm,
of importing goods from Germany, past-
ing McPherson labels over German labels
and passing them fraudulently on to the
Sydney harbor bridge builders. Apart from
alluding to the certainty that the thin
device would occasionally blow or wash off,
and that it couldn’t fail to arouse suspicion,
McPherson briefly said that the story was a
lie. Hogan can force McPherson to take
proceedings which will test the matter by
repeating the story outside, but McPherson
can’t force Hogan to back up his case if
Hogan won’t. Even if blackguardly abuse
is privileged, there seems no reason why
charges of criminality should be.
Walter, who resigned the West Gippsland
Assembly seat to contest Federal Indi, will
be succeeded by Bennett, another Cocky.
Houlihan, the Labor man, got within 500
votes of Walter at the general election, and
there was a Labor majority in the corres-
ponding territory on October 12; neverthe-
less, Houlihan was nearly 1400 behind the
Cocky and the Nationalist (James), who
amicably exchanged preferences. The result
has staggered Hogan, and it should be a
warning to Scullin.
The N.S.W. Treasurer has hung out the
SOS signal by imploring the new Federal
Government to call the Loan Council to-
gether. For six months all attempts to float
a loan in either London or New York have
failed. The temporary advance of £5,000,000
for one year at over per cent, wasn’t a
loan but a momentary accommodation. Local
loan money is very scarce, and being only
paper (apart from what can be got by the
depletion of the very moderate gold reserve)
it will be of no use abroad. What people
who have to struggle with the problem want
to know is. how much less than the customary
amount Uncle overseas will part with, and
how much more interest he will ask for what
he does part with and how Australia will
manage on what it can get.
Of the four Ministers who accompany
Bruce into retirement Gibson had the largest
slice of office; he had been P.M.G. since the
Government arrived in 1923. He was pains-
taking, but not shrewd. Abbotf was just
getting a grip of Home Affairs when the
disaster smote him. Marr was a utility
man: a better Whip than Minister. The
star of Howse had been on the wane for some
time: Bruce found him of most use as
Cabinet secretary.
In the N.S.W. Marine Court Judge
Edwards has just remarked on the misuse
of sound signals in Sydney Harbor. It was
time. Again and again The Bulletin has
drawn attention to the danger On the
Thames and other great waterways the use
of sirens, etc., except for purposes of navi-
gation, is strictly prohibited. When there-
fore an officer on a bridge hears a siren he
knows it means that something is happening
to which the attention of other ships is
drawn. But on Sydney Harbor the man on
the bridge doesn’t necessarily jump to atten-
tion when he hears a call; he knows that
the skipper or a deckhand may be casually
saying how-d’you-do to a cobber on some
other vessel. It is time this was stopped.
T. K. Sidey’s daylight-saving measure
has been debated in the Maoriland Parlia-
ment every year for a couple of decades.
Two years ago it got through on a one year’s
trial, and as nobody seemed a penny the
worse the Summer Time Bill, drafted to
make the arrangement a permanency, seemed
assured of an easy passage this session.
But a House full of new hands went over the
same dreary ground, and there was another
long wrangle in committee before the oppo-
sition succumbed. Now at midnight on the
second Sunday in October the householder
must advance the clock half an hour, the
adjustment lasting till midnight on the third
Sunday in March.
As soon as the Treasury officials and the
board of the Commonwealth Bank get the
ear of the new Treasurer they will pour into
it the dreadful news that the Government
lias to find approximately £73,000,000 inside
12 months, apart from what it has to pro-
vide for interest and new loans. New loans
are not an absolute necessity; they can be
done without at a pinch. But so far as
that £73,000,000 is concerned we have to
find it, because we owe it and have under-
taken to pay it. In all our days _we have
never been faced with such a financial prob-
lem. Of course we could tell the lenders
that they can’t have the money and that the
lOU’s have been renewed. But that would
put an end to all new loans except at a
greatly increased rate; and we should have
to pay through the nose for all future re-
newals. The sooner the Prime Minister and
the Treasurer call the trade-union leaders
around them the better. For those trade-
union leaders surely can’t know what’s ahead
of us.
As the West Gippsland by-election has
shown, Labor’s success at the Federal poll in
Victoria is no index to the result of an
Assembly election should one be forced by
Hogan and co. The issues will be very dif-
ferent, nor will battalions go to the booths to
“save arbitration.” And cries like equal dis-
tribution of Assembly seats will fall On deaf
ears. Victoria is in a bad way financially,
largely because Government after Govern-
ment shirked dealing with the soldier-settle-
ment mess and the havoc created by road
competition with the railways. Now the
situation must be faced and fancy legislation
will have to wait.
Fortune frowned on
William Archibald,
sometime M.H.R. for
Hindmarsh, who died
in a Salvation Army
home; it has been
kind to Norman
Makin, his successor.
Reappointed president
of the S. Aus. A.L.P.,
and returned unop-
posed for his safe
Labor electorate,
Makin went to Can-
berra certain of being
remembered by Cau-
cus when prizes were
handed out. The
youngest member of
the party when first
elected in 1919, he is
only 40 now.
Prime Minister Joe
Ward, of Maoriland,
came home to roost
last December after
16 years of compara-
tive obscurity, with a
£70,000,000 loan
policy under his arm.
His regilded popu-
The member for
Hindmarsh.
larity has already become a trifle tar-
nished. He floated one instalment of his
stupendous loan, furnished some details
of his railway construction programme,
announced a deficit in hand and the need to
provide against another in the future, and
explained the demand for a million of new
taxation. The unemployment problem becom-
ing rather much remarked upon, especially
by his Labor allies, Joseph rose up early in
October, looking quite the financial Joe of
old, and promised to provide work for every
capable person inside five weeks. So he
should be in time to show Scullin how to do
things. A beacon like Joseph is a blessing,
provided his light doesn’t blow out.
Labor was very perky in Yic. Assembly at
the first sitting after Federal polling-day.
With the view of blocking the Goods (Trad-
ing Stamps Abolition) Bill Tunnecliffe spoke
for more than three hours; and a motion
for adjournment by Comrade Hayes had
already taken two hours and a half. To let
the Left see that it could not have things
all its own way McPherson kept the House
busy till 4.30 next morning, and the Trading
Stamps Bill was read a second time. One
diverting incident was Laborite Jackson's
defence of the bill amid the gibes of his
colleagues. Jackson is a grocer, and was
able to give the House first-hand information
about the working of the coupon system.
Newcastle is represented in the N.S.W.
Leg. Assembly by a
roaring demagogue
named Peter Con-
nolly, who has been
told that his Parlia-
ment a r y questions
will not be an-
swered till he apolo-
gises for a foul-
mouthed attack on
Bavin and Butten-
shaw. It has never
had any reason to be
ashamed of Dave
Watkins, its Federal
member since 1901 —
before that he was
M.L.A. for his native
Wallsend. Mud is a
commodity in which
Watkins has never
dealt. He deserves
well of his party, but
hitherto his services
have not been recog-
nised with anything
juicy. He was merely
whip during the three
Fisher Administrations.
Dave Watkins.
For every stock that shows a rise on
Exchange these days half a down show a
fall — a further fall in most cases. The un-
loading is heavy and persistent. The explana-
tion seems to be that the banks are setting
their houses in order, not knowing what
they may be called on to do in saving
Australia’s credit. In March and September
next two big 6 p.c. Federal loans fall due,
and in the present state of the Lordon and
JSi.York money markets not much help need
be looked for in those quarters. So the
Australian hanks may have to struggle with
a burden greater than was ever before lam
on their shoulders; wherefore a cold eye is
being cast on all requests for increased pri-
vate accommodation, and in a great many
cases “we beg to draw your attention to the
state of your account, and shall be glad if
you will put it in order.” _ Which in turn
means that shares are being put on the
market, or some debtor is pushed for an
overdue account, or a struggle is made to
economise. But it is all inevitable —that and
a great deal more.
After a great deal of secret negotiation
between Ramsay MacDonald and H'ail
Columbia Hoover, the former left for home
and got a great send-off. Nothing is yet fully
known as to how much MacDonald gave
away, and his leg hasn’t been measured to
ascertain how far it has been pulled, if
at all. But the Prime Minister is committed
to whatever may be in the secret bargain, for
he has a Parliamentary party, and he and
it have to carry the agreement through or.
according to precedent, go out of office. The
President belongs to a party but has no
Parliamentarv following, and neither he nor
his Ministers go out if any bargain he has
made is rejected. As for the Republican
party, which includes Hoover, it doesnt go
out if the Senate cancels the President s
doings, for, in the British or Australian
Parliamentary sense, it isn’t in.
The value of a woman should be fixed
by a wages board or some other competent
authority. At Newcastle a man convicted
of inflicting grievous bodily damage on a
woman was awarded five years. Drink and
jealousy were assigned, so at least he knew
the woman. At Carlton (Melbourne) about
the same time an elderly and partially-
paralysed woman was sitting in her invalid
chair on her verandah when her face was
battered by a complete stranger who used
bad language and threatened sudden death.
The only defence was that the defendant
was celebrating his birthday. The Court
decided that a fine would be adequate, and
it fixed the amount at £2O. Human flesh is
cheap in Melbourne.
To the layman there is anguish in the
very thought of the tangled weh of the British
and Imperial judicature being added to.
The Irish Free State Government’s announce-
ment that it is agin the Privy Council has
made such an extension possible. The l 1 ree
State would like a Court of Appeal con-
sisting of Imperial Chief Justices. Another
suggestion is that there should be a court
to deal with inter-imperial cases, each part
of the Empire directly concerned nominating
a Judge, with a third from a neutral part.
Costs, K.C., can be relied upon to welcome
both.
BALLADE OF THE DOWNED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Shades of a Ministry that is passing out hang
over Canberra. Gold passes are arriving in the
mail.” — Sydney Sun.
My lunch is cut, and dimm’d my star.
From my entitlements there fade
Away the letters M.H.R.,
So prominently erst displayed.
No use at Fortune, fickle jade,
Or swinging pendulums to rail;
No use electors to upbraid—
My golden pass is in the mail.
To Canberra, from near and far,
They’ll gather soon the same brigade,
But many an old familiar
Face will be missing on parade,
Lawmakers by constituents weighed
And wanting found —the old, old tale
Of service spurned and trust betrayed!
My railway pass is in the mail.
Some other orator will spar
Where once the law adown I laid.
It gives the strongest soul a jar
To know the seat his own he made
His own no more, himself conveyed
Beyond the Parliamentary pale.
Futile complaints and vain tirade!
My travel badge is in the mail.
From Cairns ’twas good to M'eekathar’,
In W.A. —a lengthy trail.
The doors are slammed, the gates they
bar....
My railway pass is in the mail.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Poverty
Point
THE KEY OF THE CUPBOARD CHANGES HANDS.
The new Federal Treasurer will no doubt, arrange for an early meeting of the Loan Council in order to ascertain the position. This, briefly, is that during the past 12
months it has been found increasingly difficult to arrange further borrowings in London, white the New York market has been definitely closed.” — N.S.W. Slate Treasurer.
Old mother Hubbard
GOT THE KEY OF THE CUPBOARD*,
Shed promised them jam
for their bread ,
But when she got there
Just imagine her scare
When she saw what was waiting instead.
“T.P.” : When Dr. Argyle, Chief Secretary
(Vic.), agreed with a protesting deputation
that the law concerning Australian films was
flouted insultingly by picture managements,
and that though they had SO per cent, of
Yankee stuff they couldn’t treat the three
per cent. Australian with common decency,
and further referred to the difficulty of
bringing offenders to book, I thought of my
grim old teacher. Wheii young Bill, the
seallawag, played up in the street, and Mr.
Dominie wasn’t sure of his power, he waited
till the urchin transgressed some school law,
and then belted him, impressing the fact
thus: “This isn’t because of your behavior
in the street, William, oh no!” Billy took
the gentD hint. Anyway U.S.A. would not
say as did the Chief Sec.: “All right-think-
ing citizens should resent such flagrant
disobedience of the law, and stay away,”
which is piffle. Instead, it would watch for
a chance to belt blazes out of the offending
parties, and rightly so too. We spineless
Australians deserve all we get, or don’t get.
“Magis” : The Poverty Pointers who have
been debating whether music has meaning or
not have been wasting their ink over a matter
that has long been settled. As long ago as
the days of ancient Greece the ephors of
.Sparta condemned Timotheus of Miletus for
his setting of a poem concerning the accouche-
ment of the goddess Semele. H'e had
“imitated in an indecent manner the cries
of a woman suffering the torments of child-
birth.”
“Ike Pagliacci”: Ike Pagliacci, jun., 10,
settled an argument and cited a fact when,
in the midst of a discussion as to whether
a neighboring suburban theatre had been
wired for talkies, he said: “Well, they
hadn’t last Saturday, because all the kids
went there.” The silent film built up its
reputation on the kid and lost it through
an overdose of sex. Now, the censor sees
that the sex dose is mild and words have
robbed the film of the action demanded by
the peppy youth of 1929. From the kids’
point, the talkie is poor stuff, and matinee
hauls have gone down accordingly.
_ “C. Ma”: Nothing daunts the movie magi-
Although “All Quiet on the Western
Front” has no plot, no love story, no drama
in the accepted sense and no hero except
abstract Youth tragically deprived of its
birthright, Universal is engaged on a screen
version of the prose epic, to be made in
Germany. Perhaps it is only the name they
are after, however. A distinguished Ameri-
can author received £25,000 for the screen
rights of a novel some time ago. Happen-
ing to be present at the photographing of
some of the sets, he remarked that they
did not recall the original to him, and asked
for a copy of the book, so that he could
remonstrate. The management confessed
that it hadn’t troubled to obtain one.
“L.R.”: By the refusal of the Government
to subsidise the Repertory Club, Perth has
lost the opportunity of seeing a pastoral
play performed in the Government Gardens
in November as part of the State centenary
celebrations. The Repertory Club had
chosen “As You Like It.” For one thing
the Government objected to the dates pro-
posed because the main celebrations will be
over by October.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: Sydney Prince Edward
Theatre is losing a group of its staff;
they are to run a chain of suburban
theatres on their own account. The houses
will be known as the Roxy Theatres. Head
and front of the offending is Hal Carleton,
who was publicity man for the Prince
Edward, and whose films, made by cutting
and blending old ones, were among the most
amusing and interesting features shown at
the P.E.
“Cine Ma”: As The Bulletin pointed
out at its inception, the Victorian Film
Quota law, since it applied only within State
boundaries, Would be of no value to local
producers. Nevertheless, a whole bevy of
companies was formed and commenced shoot-
ing in all directions. Most of them are now
either dead or moribund, and the only people
to reap any benefit out of the Act are the
Federal and M.L. Governments. The last-
named finds the quota invaluable for adver-
tising the superior charms of its scenery
for the Victorian tourist, while the private
picture-maker hasn’t a chance against the
Migration Commission and all the other
Australian departmental authorities who are
busy soiling good celluloid.
“Oxley”: Brisbane saw its first profes-
sional show in 1851. when John Cooling, of
North Brisbane, presented “The Operatic
Concert Patty,” ' including Madame • Harris
—every singer of the gentler sex used to be
“madame” —“the celebrated cantatrice from
Sydney.” A quaint touch is the advertised
farewell and message of thanks to the “Gentry
and inhabitants of Brisbane,” backed by the
request that those who had taken tickets
would kindly bring along the cash before the
company departed. Evidently show tickets
were issued on credit in those Arcadian days.
“C.T.H.”: Edged into retirement by the
Tivoli black-out, Tommy Foster, notable old-
time theatrical of Sydney, who for the past-
few years has been associated with the busi-
ness as stage-doorkeeper at the old Castle-
reagh-street house. Thirty-eight years ago
Tommy arrived from the Fog Country and
started his munjming career at the Garrick
with a company which included Madge
Elliott, Walter Bentley, George Ireland and
J. B. Atliolwood, and which put on shows
averaging a two-day run, with a repertoire
that included Shakspeare, light opera, drama
and comedy. Producer, manager, treasurer
and actor in his days, Tommy crossed the
Tasman 32 times for the Firm. Lately lie
has dabbled in amateur theatricals.
“G. IL de C.” (Cape Town) : South
Africans have been well catered for lately.
George Robey has recently completed a
successful provincial tour. Terpsichore, the
French dancer ; Lynch Bellringers, the Aus-
tralians ; and Kubelik and Cherniavsky Bros,
are also ending fruitful seasons. Paul <jc
Groot, S’Africa’s own actor of Huguenot
descent, is dishing up Ibsen’s work credit-
ably.
“Cauboy”: Allan Wilkie made something
out of his tour of Maoriland. The Govern-
ment gave him a subsidy of £B5O. An appli-
cation for something similar from the Bruce
Government a year ago met with no response,
except the reminder that Wilkie already got
substantial concessions from the railways.
Judging by the way the schools avail them-
selves of the Wilkie performances, however, a
small allocation from the education vote
would not be misused if it were handed to
the indomitable Shakspearean producer.
“O. Blin”: Arnold Bell, one of the lead-
ing men of “August, 1914,” at Melbourne
Tivoli, is the original Old Bill of “The Better
’Ole” when it was staged in the southern
capital in 1919. Bell remembers that
entry into our life with peculiar vividness.
When he and his pals arrived the ’flu epi-
demic was driving the nervous into the dark-
est seclusion, and for a space the theatres
were closed. In order to live as economi-
cally as possible, Bell and nine others hired
a shack on the eastern edge of Port Phillip
and batched there for many days, and
Lottie Sargent and little Clarice Hardwieke,
now reappearing in “Rose Marie” in Lon-
don, intermittently visited them to fry them
a chop.
“L.H.P.”: Allan Wilkie, in his present
run at Newtown Majestic, introduces “She
Stoops to Conquer” almost as a novelty, for
Goldsmith’s comedy has not been seen on
the local boards since the Meynell and Gunn
revival at the Cri. in 1909. . Harcourt
Beatty (Marlow), Madge Mclntosh (Kate
Hardcastle), Gaston Mervalc (Hastings)
and Tom Cannam, an excellent Tony Lump-
kin, were among the principals. At the
same house in 1892 the London star, Mrs.
Bernard Beere, showed her paces as Kate
to the Marlow of Herbert Standing and the
Tony of Teddy Royce. Jimmy Cathcart was
Hardcastle, a role he played with the Brown
Potter-Kyrle Bellow stars at the Lyceum
in 1896, with Charlie Berkley, now a J.C.W.
rep. in M.L., as Tony. The Bellow-Potter
duo had A. G. Poulton, now in London, for
Tony in their 1890 revival at the Royal.
The famous Brough-Boucicault revival at
the Cri. in 1889 had Brough as Tony, the
wife ah Kate, Percy Lyndal as Marlow and
A. T. Hilton as Hardcastle, a role he played
with Rignold and Alison’s excellent English
comedy troupe at the Opera House in 1884.
Marie de Grey made a perfect Kate, and
Morton Selten, still on the London boards,
was a dashing Marlow. Mark Kinghorne,
a London comedian of note, made a hit as
Tony; Fred Thorne, imported by Rignold
for Fluellen in “Henry V„” was a capital
Tony in a revival at the Queen's in 1876.
and Marian Willis, Florence Colville and
Tilly Andrews were popular Kates in the
’seventies.
“Bory O’Haggis”: Warde Morgan, since
he recovered from the Aberdeen smash-up,
has been the Firm’s mascot, stage-managing
two of its biggest hits —“The Patsy” and
“Lombardi Ltd.” With Matheson Lang for
live years, he never saw a failure. The first
show after he quitted flopped badly and so
did the next several. But it wasn’t always
thus. At 17 Morgan played lago. The co.
had a repertoire of seven Shakspearean shows,
and they did it with one scene, two swords
and a throne box. Gareth Hughes, now a
big noise in the talkies, was one of the
optimists. Even an Othello with a Welsh
accent couldn’t drag ’em in.
“19.44.55.”: The Firm is soon to put into
rehearsal a play called “Tuirned Up,” which
was written about 25 years ago and ■when
tried in London and New York took a
horrible dive. Song-writer Jack O’Hagan
has been commissioned to add a dozen new
numbers by way of bringing the farce
up-to-date. It should lose nothing through
its cast, which includes those tip-top com-
edians Cecil Kellaway, Gus Bluett and Leo
Franklyn. Franklyn will play the part he
created in London, Carraway Bones, Under-
taker.
“Swashbuclde”: S. M. Bruce, on the
stump, referred to high salaries of theatre
artists; these, however, owe their pay to
luck as much as service rendered. Albert
Whelan was receiving £lO p.w. in London
and seriously thinking of the grocery busi-
ness when an American manager walked in
with an offer of seventy-five per week.
Albert thought he meant dollars, but
accepted after a slight demur, and was a
very happily shocked Australian when the
New York ghost walked in pounds. His
salary never looked back and he came to his
homeland at £2OO a week. C. B. Cochrane
found Delysia at £6 per week. She eventu-
ally cost him hundreds. And here’s one that
showman didn’t put in his-book. When he
discovered Grace Christie, the mask dancer,
he gave her £35 p.w. for London, but she
never got less than £75. She thought her
first pay envelope a mistake, but C.B. patted
her on the shoulder. “Go and read your
press notices again, my dear,” he said. Of
such are the Kingdom of Heaven —and
the bankruptcy courts.
“Theseus”: Now that stage-fright due to
the talkie invasion has so overwhelmed the
legit, houses throughout Australia, how
would it be if entrepreneurs, instead of using
Australian talent to under study imported
paper-fame, starred the locals and kept the
world-beaters in reserve as second-strings!
The recent rises to note of such Aussies as
Elma Gibbs (“The Patsy”), Romola Hanstein
(“Wildfiower”), Marie Bremner (“Desert
Song”) and Gwyneth Lascelles (“Show
Boat”), not to mention the dozen or so who
flickered in Sydney-Melbourn'e, but shone in
London, suggests that the novelty would
prove intriguing.


o>\
V
:
08
&
iiiilii
*2
Ci
ill
rp
:l: -lllllllllllllll
CO
PJ p
es
v:
N
M
J
Made at
%ateiqh. 9 ark. _
the Garden Factory
by W.D.&H.O.WiIIs
(Aust.) Ltd.
«*
€
&
l'e
and bdter
Every eighteenpenny tin of “Country Life
carries three more cigarettes of finest
Virginian tobacco. Twenty-three not
the usual twenty with cork tips. Try
“Country Life” for a better smoke.
also in
tins of
15&V
and tins 50 S. 100
ď
VIRGINIA
CORK TIPPED
CIGARETTES


When you come to
SYDNEY
You will find at Usher’s every essen-
tial to the enjoyment of your visit.
Hotel service that is homelike,
cuisine of rare excel-
lence, and that
friendly hospitality
which you desire.
Telephone and run-
ning water in all
rooms. Book accom-
modation early.
B *d and
Breakfast
Tariff
if desired
Special tariff or inclusive terms.
nuhcr^r
HOT E L
OPP. THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
’Phone 86511 (10 lines).
Cable & Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel.” Svdnev.
BELTING
Utmost Strength
in evert/ Length ■"
' l %v;
WHERE OTHER POWER
BELTS FAIL, “MANGROVITE”
BELTING PROVES ITS
SUPERIORITY.
“Mangrovite” equipped
machinery is expected to give
better results than machinery
fitted with ordinary belting—
and never fails to do so.
“MANGROVITE”
WATERPROOF LEATHER OR RAW-HIDE BELTING
is cemented throughout with waterproof cement its whole process of
manufacture is designed to produce a power belting one hundred per cent,
efficient —sturdy, reliable and economical.
Send for samples—free on request to any address.
MANGROVITE BELTING, LTD.,
Charles Ludowici, Managing Director,
49 YORK STREET (WYNYARD SQUARE), SYDNEY.
Melbourne is loud in its praise
of the Food' at
Johe
HOTEL
AUSTRALIA
COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE
“/n the heart of the city*’
The atmosphere and surround-
ings will astound you.
N. D. CARLYON,
Managing Director
PERSONAL
ITEMS
J. C. Eldridge, whose victory in Martin
(N.S.W.) was one of the election surprises,
was secretary to Greg McGirr when that
mercurial person was a Ma State Minister,
and was the subject of a ferocious denun-
ciation by one of the anti-McGirr faction in
the Leg. Assembly. He did not follow the
McGirr out of the party, but made himself
useful to it by diligent writing and lecturing,
and was given a nomination for the Senate
in 1925 ; but it was the wrong year. Eldridge
had four years’ service in the A.I.F. He is
another Clerks’ Union politician; there is
a platoon of them.
There were only two original members,
Hughes and Dave Watkins, in the last House
of Reps. ; with the return of R. A. Crouch,
who captured Corangamite from Postmaster-
General Gibson at the third attempt, there
will be three in the next. Crouch took the
oath in 1901 as M.11.R. for Corio. He is a
solicitor with war service, a bachelor, a good
supporter of Australian literature and a
teetotaller.
E. J. Holloway, who defeated the Pri-
minister in his own electorate of Flinders, is
too weary in mind and body to do much
rejoicing. The strain of many years of
union work involving endless controversies
has told on him, and months ago he resigned
the secretaryship of Melbourne Trades Ilall
Council, the resignation to take effect at
Christmas time. He opposed Bruce again
more to oblige his party than to earn a free
pass to Canberra; he expected to rattle the
Priminister but not to beat him. Holloway
E. J. HOLLOWAY, who defeated the Prime
Minister for the Flinders (Vic.) seat.
is reckoned a “moderate.” nowadays, but in
other years he supplied an effusive preface
to a reprint of a Trotsky speech.
Holloway was one of Tom Mann’s pupils
in socialist economics when that worthy was
in Australia. Another who came under
Mann’s influence was Jack Curtin, who has
won Fremantle again. But of late years
Curtain has been trying to forget what he
learned from the fatally eloquent old fire-
brand who was fined for selling bad beer.
Martin Threlfal, for years chief Federal
lobbyist for the S. M. Hekald, was Theo-
dore’s right-hand man during the N. S. Wales
campaign. Now he is to be Labor’s chief
publicity man, with headquarters at Can-
berra. This job has been talked of for a
long time, largely as a counterblast to the
Nat. and C.P. publicity bureaus. With
Labor in power it will carry some weight.
Three politicians left Canberra a few
weeks ago convinced that they would not
come back —Llew Atkinson, Paul Jones and
Maurice Collins. The most positive of the
three was Jones —and he is the only one
who will be. in the new House. The appeal
of ex-Premier Lyons was too much for Atkin-
son, and Collins was pushed out by Hawker,
of the S. Aus. Liberal Union. Incidentally,
on the day Collins’s political fate was
decided he lost his father, a famous S. Aus.
pastoralist, who lived to 95.
Hobart’s best-known insurance-agent, the
ancient but perky • “Cocky” Blanchard,
valiantly pushed his £25 across the Denison
r.-o.’s desk on nomination day. He got no
refund. At the first Commonwealth election
2S years ago he did the same thing, with
the same result.
Fred Burley, managing
director of Berlei, Ltd.,
who is off to London to
establish a branch, has
shown that youth is no bar
to outstanding success in
business. A tall, spare
man, keenly practical, yet
with a large dash of ideal-
ism, he talks and writes as
well as he works. Withal,
he is Australian through
and through. Big achieve-
ments have not prevented
him from being socially the
best of good fellows, and
a bit of a boy at that.
Lord Craigavon, who
will be in Melbourne for
the Cup, is better known to
fame as Colonel .Tames
Craig, leader of the Ulster
diehards in the Commons
and out of it before the
creation of the Irish Free
State. Made a baronet in
191 S, he became first Pre-
mier of Northern Ireland in
1924; he also sits in the
Commons as member for
County Down. A vis-
countcy came his way in
1927. In earlier days he
served in the Royal Irish
Rifles, now defunct, and
saw service in the Boer
War. In the darkest days
of the Irish troubles Craig
had a secret meeting with
De Valera to discuss the
possibility of a settlement, being conducted to
the Sinn Fein chief’s headquarters, without
the knowledge of the British authorities, by
men armed to the teeth.
Geoff Hurry’s defeat for Bendigo won’t
worry him much. When the House sat in
Melbourne he could get home to Ivyneton
in a couple of hours; but Canberra was a
different proposition. He will be happier as
the family lawyer in Kyneton than in spend-
ing a good part of his life in trains. Hurry’s
dad wms head of the legal business that the
son carries on, and the A.I.F. colonel lives
in the ancestral bluestone home in Donni-
thorne-street. Argyle, Vic. Chief Sec., who,
like Hurry, was born at Kyneton, is now the
town’s white hope. It looks to him to bag
at least the State Premiership.
Mick McEncroe, who has had his final
clean-up at Boulder (W.A.), worked along-
side Deeming at Southern Cross. He used to
describe that historical character as “a very
nice gentleman to talk to.” McEncroe and
a mate were among the first to arrive at
Coolgardie after Bayley and Ford; they fol-
lowed the goldfinders’ tracks at night by
means of firesticks. But pay dirt was the
best they struck.
Frank Baker, who went very close to un-
seating J. G. Bayley in Oxley (Q-), was. the
youngest Babor candidate at the election;
he is only 26. Born in Bundabcrg, # the
son of a school inspector, he is deposition
clerk to Hishon, the Brisbane P.M.
C. W. Chapman, who has passed on in
Melbourne, was associated with Australian
mining for most of his life, chiefly in part-
nership with John Higgins, of Bawra. Phe
pair made a lot of money out of the com-
mercial side of metallurgy at Dry Creek
(S.A.) and Broken Hill;, they were also
interested in sheep stations. Chapman
ioined R 11. S. B. Wakley, a Bendigo share-
broker, in founding the firm of Chapman and
Wakley on the Melbourne Stock Exchange
at the outset of the. Broken Hill boom. His
father was a Maoriland Judge.
Duncan McLachlan, who died in Sydney
last week, struck the toughest job of his
life after he had retired. Half a century
asm he and his brother Hugh were very pro-
mising young men in the N.S.W railways.
Duncan left, going first to Works and
R. V. KEANE, who won
Bendigo (Vic.) for Labor.
then to Mines, while his brother remained
to be probably the most brilliant secretary
the Railway Department ever had. Duncan
was the Commonwealth’s first Public ser-
vice Commissioner; and when he reached
retiring age he was coaxed oil to the twaiu
of the Civil Service Stores in Sydney. Then
all the troubles of the world seemed to fall
upon him ; and he didn’t know what to do
with a lot of them —he hadn’t been trained
that way. He retired, a sick man, a year
ago, being then 75. Duncan McLachlan
was a cheerful soul, and except his old friend
Coghlan, for many years Agent-General.,
there wasn’t a man in the N.S.W. I üblic Ser-
vice who could write a more attractive report.
One of the most distinctive-looking men in
the new Parliament will be Jack McNeill,
who combines a brick-red face with snow-
white hair on top of a massive body. In
wresting Wannon (Vic.) from Arthur
Rodgers, Minister for Customs in the Hughes
Government, he paid off an old election score.
McNeill was a foundation member of the
Shearers’ Union, which grew into the
A.W.U., and when not in Parliament is an
A.W.U. organiser.
li. Y. Keane, who won
Bendigo for Labor from
Colonel Hurry, was for-
merly a Government rail-
way accountant; lie re-
signed to step into the job
of general secretary of the
Australian Railways
Union. As an arbitration
advocate lie fought one of
the costliest legal battles
for his union ever staged
in the history of the Court;
it lasted 14,S days, Keane
stood for a Vic. Leg. Coun-
cil seat last year and is
now glad that he lost. He
will be the heaviest poli-
tician at (Canberra, depos-
ing Senator Jack Barnes
from that proud eminence.
His lighting weight is 18
stone,
The Federal election ter-
minated. among other
things, the longest Minis-
terial innings so far re-
corded in the Common-
wealth Parliament, that of
Westralian Senator Pearce.
It lasted from Sept, 17.
1914, when Fisher’s- Labor
Ministry replaced the Cook
Government, which called
itself Liberal. Pearce fol-
lowed Hughes out of the
Labor caucus-room in
1916, and three months
later was in the same
Cabinet as Cook ; and when
1 he Nationalist-Cocky Government was formed
in 1923 the gentleman from Westralia, quit-
ting Hughes, was in it. In previous years
he had enjoyed two spells of office, though he
wasn’t quite the first Labor Minister from
Westralia; Hugh Mahon had that distinc-
tion. For a politician of the essentially plod-
ding type Pearce’s luck. was almost as
remarkable as his adaptability.
Billy Wise, who was secretary of the
Broken Hill Miners’ Association through the
strenuous ’nineties, died a few days ago.
He had none of the political ambitions that
carried his fellow-officers Cann, Thomas,
Sleath and Ferguson into Parliament, with
gaol as half-way house for a couple of them.
Wise belonged to a well-known River ma
family, and had the job of studying the jui\
list when the Broken Hill strike leaders were
sent to Deniliquin for trial. Both sides
weighed that jury list very carefully. But
even that didn’t stop the Crown from stand-
ing one of the Falkincrs aside. The police
hadn’t placed him, and he certainly didn t
look like a rich squatter.
The first aeroplane to take off from the
Rabaul ’drome for a long flight belonged to
the Guinea Gold people. The pilot was
“Pard” Mustard; the time, March, 192 1.
Mustard and Mullins, his mechanic, flew to
Lae, the ’drome on the Salamau side; from
Lae the birdmen now speed on to the Bulolo
goldfield. Ray Parer was the first man to
fly from Port Moresby to Lae. “Pard” and
he pioneered in tiny machines; nowadays
huge Junkers roar over the mountains. Other
pilots to whom the New Guinea landscape
has become familiar are Shaw, Pentland,
Cross, Baume, Gardner, Matheson and
MacGilvray. Some of them are still on the
field.
William H. Wooster, who died in Canley
Yale (N.S.W.) recently at 84, was an old-
time Vic. school-teacher with a strong bent
for science. A bosom friend of Baron von
Mueller, he wrote astronomical notes for the
Ballarat Courier, and studied the polyzoa
to such purpose that he discovered a hither-
to unknown form of life, which was named
after him, the Poli/zoi woosterii. In his
back yard in Humffray-street, Ballarat, he
had an immense telescope, and in his study
a hundred-guinea microscope. His daughter
is a Westralian verse-writer of merit.
R. S Ross, Labor battler and Bulletin
contributor for very many years, has reposed
his hopes for the future in his son Lloyd,
who is on his way to Manchester, where he
will spend a year in the study of problems
of industry which turned his dad’s hair grey.
Lloyd Robert Maxwell Ross passed on from
the Melbourne University High School to
the University, whence he departed with an
M.A. and LL.B., taking honors. Three years
ago he went to Maoriland to help run the
Workers’ Educational Association there. A
Rockefeller Foundation Fellowship has given
him his trip overseas.
Tom Chapman, first hon. secretary of the
first Melbourne Stock Exchange, founded
in 1881, can tell some interesting reminis-
cences of the early days. The Exchange
was composed of nine members: W. T.
.Tones, Adam Calder, John G-oodall, A. E.
Clarke, R. E. Wallen, J. B. Were, J.
Hood, F. W. Howard and John M atson.
They met under the verandah of the Cri-
terion Hotel, Collins-street, next Sands and
MacDouga-H’s printery. They had paid 29
guineas each for tlieir seats. One day John
Goodall asked whether anybody wanted to
sell his seat. “I can give him £5OO on
behalf of a friend of mine!” In the rush
of sellers he was nearly knocked over.
The passing from political life of J. H.
Lister recalls that he was the first of the
returned-soldier politicians. Invalided home
from the Light Horse Ambulaiyce after
Romani, Lister was given a job as recruiter
at Geelong. The 1917 Federal election came
while he was there, and at the instigation
of D. F. Griffiths, a leading local lawyer and
man of affairs, Lister was put up at short
notice for Corio. His Labor opponent was
Ozanne, also a soldier, and then on active
service. Lister won, and held the seat com-
fortably until Oct. 12. Lewis, who defeated
him, is as little known in Geelong ns Lister
was when first elected.
Sir William Solomon, Chief Justice of
the South African Union, has resigned. Son
of a Cape predikant, he was born in 1852,
and after taking his M.A. degree at Cam-
bridge was called to the Bar in 1876. He
was a Judge of the Appellate Division of
the Union Supreme Court before his appoint-
ment as C.J. in 1927. A fine type of Afri-
kander of the old school, he had little sym-
pathy with the Nationalist movement; but
his successor, Jacobus de Villicrs, sometime
Attorney-General of the O.F.S. and Judge
of the Appellate Court, is an out-and-out
Ilertzog man. “Tilly” de Roos, who suc-
ceeds him in his turn, is a prominent figure
in the secession section of the Nationalist
party.
Frank Clowes, whose death has followed on
an operation in London, used to be a leading
Sydney indent agent. Retiring six years
ago, he turned his attention to philanthropic
work, and did good service as a committeeman
of the Cancer Research Fund. Keenest of
golfers, he was a familiar figure in the Royal
Sydney and Royal Australian clubs. He had
just reached 58.
For the last 30 years every Maoriland
Parliament has had before it a petition from
John J. Meikle, of Auckland ; but the name
is now likely to disappear from the order
paper In 1893 Meikle was convicted ot
sheep-stealing and sentenced to seven years'
imprisonment with hard labor. He was
innocent, and on
his release he set.
to work to clear
his name. After
some years and the
expenditure of more
than £5OOO he had
the satisfaction of
seeing the princi-
pal witness against
him gaoled for
perjury. Meikle
was given £2500
as compensation,
but considered the
amount inadequate,
a view with which
various committees
of the House were
unable to agree.
Now the latest
committee has re-
commended that he
should get a pen-
sion of £4 a tveek
for the rest of his
life.
B. H. CORSER,
the Country
party member
for Wide Bay,
who scored one
of the Northern
State’s greatest
victories.
“Gad”: Dr. Ross (B. 16/10/’29), now m
Australia, is not singular in being a Jesuit
bishop. I travelled to Bombay in 1920 with
Dr. Goodyer, S.J., who was returning to his
archdiocese of Bombay. And there are many
Jesuit bishops.
ADA CROSSLEY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A queen who ruled with no imperious
sway....
But when did sweeter music thrill the
throng
In crowded hall
Than those clear notes that rang for many
a day
A world away?
A queen who would not queen it, but withal
A sceptred queen of song.
Should Philomel his quality proclaim?
Enough the surge of meiody that tells
A master sings—
Joy, sorrow, passion, all adept to frame
In glowing flame....
Her strains still linger like the echoing rings
Of .a carillon’s bells.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


SOCIETU
“and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Jobber”: To-day I spoke with an Aus-
tralian woman who must have put up some-
thing like a i*ecord. She is the mother of
nine children, and at the age of 37 has just
become a grandmother. Her eldest daughter
avus born when the mother was 18, and the
daughter married at the same age. The little
lady told me with pride that, counting in her-
self and the old man (incidentally a Digger),
they call themselves the “Australian Eleven,”
and have endowed the latest comer with the
two names Donald (after Bradman) and
Gregory. After communicating the fact to
the two cricketers concerned, they were sent
an autographed photograph of each. There
are five generations of the family, all Aus-
tralian born, still on deck.
sfc :fe &
“Uramao” : There are places
where, despite the Biblical in-
junction, even churches can’t
help laying up treasure on
earth. One of them is Dun-
edin (M.L.), where the City
Council’s latest budget dis-
closes that the various reli-
gious denominations hold pro-
perty valued at half a million
pounds. Perhaps an even
more remarkable fact is that
in a city where the pioneers
sought to establish an exclu-
sive Presbyterian province and
where one can hardly swing a
cat without hitting a Scotch-
byterian parson, elder or
deacon, the Roman Catholic
Church has laid up more
worldly treasure than the
Presbyterian. There has been
some scratching o’ heids thereanent.
£ * *
“Murkah”: Somewhere in N.S.W. there
are two engine-men who are never likely to
forget W. M. Hughes. It was in war-time
and Billy was hurrying from Melbourne to
Sydney when, at Goulburn, the loco, failed.
There was no suitable engine with steam up
to replace it, and it looked like at least two
hours’ delay. “What’s up,” rasped Bill.
“Engine failure,” replied the driver. “Well,
there’s another one,” and the Prime Minister
pointed at a lumbering goods-engine on a
near-by track. “Tie that one on and. let’s
get away from here.” He started towards it
as though he was going to drag it over. The
stationmaster allowed himself to be per-
suaded, and five minutes later a heavy goods-
loco., designed for 1000-ton loads at 25-mile
speeds, was literally shaking itself to pieces
trying to pace it with an express schedule.
VESTED RIGHTS.
YOUNG MAN : “Madame, would you mind moving up a little, please? We haven’t room.”
OLD GIRL: “No, you don’t. I’ve warmed this ’ere and I’m going to stick to it.”
It put up a record for its type, and reached
Sydney only 20 minutes late. But it spent
the next fortnight in the repair-shop and
it was reported that fettlers picked up 6cwt
of bolts along the track.
*, \ ,
“Starboard Porthole : I was second-class
when Ramsay MacDonald P. and O. d to
India. Much in his company was the Aga
Khan; the only other man that potentate
favored with his conversation was b rank
Bullock, the Australian jockey. And b lun /5 s
dancing partner for the duration of the
voyage was the daughter of a belted ex-
Viceroy of India, and a baroness in her own
right. When the Labor leader introduced a
countess, who gave out the sports prizes, he
grasped the opportunity to twit the second
class with lying in bunk in the mornings. He
rose every a.m. at 6.30 he said, and had never
met a second-classer on deck. Next day I,
too, rose at 6.30, tramped three miles of
deck and never spotted Ramsay till the
second breakfast gong.
“X2X” : There is good reason to believe that
pigeons are being used as carriers of cocaine
in Australia. It is not a hard matter to get
a few birds aboard a ship just before sailing
time and to release them at sea with their
precious freight. They
fly straight home in a
few minutes and the Cus-
toms have no means of
tracing them. Of course,
a bird can carry very
little; but with the huge
price that “snow” real-
ises even that little has
a high value.
AS ANY LADY MIGHT.
“I believe Joan caused a sensation on the beach this morning?”
“Quite. She leaned back suddenly and fell out of her bathing suit.”
“Nero”: The only flag of truce I ever saw
in the war was in April, 1916, in Meso-
potamia. It was a strange experience. Sud-
denly there was an uncanny silence; the
machine-gun which tap-tapped at intervals
on a section of my trench where no one
could pass without bending double ceased to
tap. The intermittent crack of rifle-fire
ceased on both sides. Stranger still was the
number of heads, brown and white, boldly
thrust above the parapet. Mine was among
them and I saw a Turk, holding a white
flag, and with a supporter on each side,
advancing towards our lines. Midway he
was met by one of our staff officers, who
blindfolded him, led him into our lines and
conducted him to G.11.Q. He brushed me as
lie passed down the trench. After an inter-
val the Turk was led hack to his friends,
and the rifle-fire began again. I never heard
what was his mission. All I know is that,
whereas the Turkish trenches were well-
manned that day and night, there was hardly
a single specimen of that exceedingly clever
race of retreat-fighters to be found when we
attacked at dawn next day.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Unknown to most people the
Chinese community in Australia recently
celebrated the eighteenth anniversary of the
Republic that hasn’t got a president. In Aus-
tralia, fortunately the
local Celestial is fairly
restrained in his patriotic
transports, whereas, in
Singapore his national
lamentations and rejoic-
ings have become a per-
ennial nuisance., There
are now 21 days of the
year set aside for observ-
ance, most of them being
memorials to some deed
of “Imperialistic aggres-
sion,” like the “murder”
of students who tried to
raid a police-station in
Shanghai. The celebra-
tions are usually accom-
panied by riots and
always entail the letting
off of fireworks. Recently
a leading Chinese citizen
of Singapore had the
courage to protest against
his fellow-countrymen’s
habit of expressing their
national pride by explod-
ing crackers; but a com-
patriot got up and point-
ed out that the critic of
his country’s customs
was dressed in an Eng-
,ish suit, Australian boots, an American tic
and German spectacles, and the dissentient
sat down in confusion.
* * * *
“Cedilla”: The type of train-scaler who
takes the minimum of risk is the one who
travels on a shilling or florin. Ticket col-
lectors in the peak hours of the morning
and evening haven’t time to examine every
ticket; and anything that looks reasonably
like a “season” stands a good chance of being
passed. If the imposture is noticed the coin
is handed to the collector as payment, and
pretence is made that this was 'the original
intention. It only means a penalty of
threepence or so.
* * * *
I heard Harry Rickards make a
speech about 25 years ago in the Melbourne
theatre now known as the Tivoli. It went
like this: “Now, ladies and gentlemen, I
have the honor to intradooce one of the most
popular and highest-salaried artistes I have
ever engaged to entertain you, dainty Irene
Franklin. (Applause.) Miss Irene Franklin
is one of the very best. (More applause.)
A charming artiste. I saw her just a
minute or two ago. She is now getting
dressed.” (Tumultuous applause.) _ ’Arry
looked around, bewildered; then, noting that
the merriment was quite good-humored, bowed
and walked off with the air of a man who
had put something good over on ’em that
time.
$ * *
“F.U.”: In Auckland, when claims for
injuries under the Workmen’s Compensation
* , .i-u~
Act are before the Court,
trial by doctors seems to
have largely displaced
trial by jury. It recently
took eight medicoes —four
for each side —to deter-
mine the extent to which
a man’s arm and leg could
suffer by a fall of 17ft.
down a ship’s hold. Plain-
tiff had refused to accept
£125 offered by the em-
ployers, and he was
awarded, as the result of
the medical conference,
the sum of £2OO for “per-
manent partial incapa-
city.’*
“Nikko”: Yes, some weddings are more
interesting than others. One that occurred
in our small and select suburb, though
of no social importance, will not be readily
forgotten by anyone who was there. The
bride, the hefty daughter of our local
butcher, had a bitter grudge against a damsel
who had openly endeavored to annex the
’groom’s somewhat unstable affections, and
the offending young woman had been firmly
informed that her presence as a spectator
at the wedding was not desired. However,
she risked it and came. As the bride, in full
array, walked up the path to the church her
eye lit on the banned one. Handing her
prayer-book to an onlooker, the lady deserted
her escort and surged into the crowd, seized
her hated rival and soundly smacked her
face. Then she retrieved the prayer-book
and resumed her place at the head of the
procession. No immediate action was taken,
but a summons for assault cut the honey-
moon short.
* * * *
“Ngatik”: The much-paragraphed Hubert
Wilkins was plain George when he and I
were two Australian members of the British
Imperial Antarctic Expedition of 1920. We
had been made honorary members of various
London clubs and occasionally picked one at
random for a visit. One night we found
ourselves in an obviously exclusive and
sumptuously-appointed institution. The atmo-
sphere was like that of a cathedral, and mem-
bers appeared afraid to speak except in
whispers. We stood it for a while, and then
George suggested a spot and summoned a
“buttonsette.” “Oh,” she whispered, “this is
the club. Drinks are not served here.”
But she must have noticed our Aussie uni-
forms, for she told us, in another whisper.
“If you want a drink, follow me.” We did,
and found ourselves in the steerage portion
of the premises, where we had an evening
which included spots, music and cards.
George pronounced it a decided improvement
on the upstairs department of any London
club we had visited.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
“Bargara”: Touching anti-climax in a
serious radio broadcast (B. 16/10/’29),
elaborate preparations were made to wel-
come Bert Hinkler when he reached the
official terminus of his Britain-to-Bundaberg
flight. Among other things, 4QG (Queens-
land State) radio station was waiting at the
’drome with a “mike.” This was placed on
a motor-tank lorry, used also as a platform
for speakers. Microphone mechanics were
not very well known, and the populace
crowded round the lorry. The result was
that the mike picked up much more than
official felicitations. In the forefront of its
message was a conversation, ruddy with good
Australian idiom, between two men who had
leaned and yarned against a wheel of the
platform. It was the only record taken, too,
and the interpellation could not be excised.
* # * *
“Chev.” : Considering the speed with which
the police patrol cars race through the con-
gested parts of Melbourne, their immunity
from accident is amazing. Their only serious
misadventure occurred some years ago when
one of the big Lancias, dashing after its
quarry at 70 "miles an hour, ran on to a
stretch of tram-track that had been torn up
and was being relaid. Two men were killed,
and ever since the bodies which wreck the
streets must first submit their plans to
Russell-street. That the motor-police bear
a charmed life was indicated the other night
when a patrol was proceeding across an
intersection in one of the eastern suburbs.
A private car emerged from a side street
and collided with the police vehicle —and at
the same instant a second car emerged from
the opposite street and by smiting it on the
other side restored its equilibrium!
THE BEACH OF THE WINDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
By day the noisy trippers come and paddle
in the creaming surf;
Young men in flannels haunt the cliff, gay
damsels sprawl along the turf,
Banana skins adorn the grass and empty
bottles strew the sand
While the green sea moans ceaselessly
against defilers of the land.
But when the trains puff citywards and
from the blue tide leaps the moon,
And the wild geese trail into flight across
the steel-grey, fringed lagoon,
The ocean wind with streaming mane comes
at the beckoning of the shore
To make the gleaming curve of beach, the
shallow dunes its own once more.
It crisps the sand to crinkled silk; it sings
among the fragile shells;
It weaves about the mangrove stems the
magic of the island spells;
It covers up the wreckage left by picnic
parties on the strand,
It flings against the sunburned bush its
challenge to the dusty land.
Moon-moths are flickering in the scrub, grey
crabs come sidling up the steep,
The jewel casket of the sea has cast a
treasure from the deep,
And where the strident gramophone screamed
jazz along the noontide shore,
The things that were before Man was have
come into their own once more.
Maybe a centaur gallops up the rubble of
the crumbling hill;
Maybe a nymph descends to bathe nor cares
that he can gaze his fill;
She makes believe to be a shred from the
round moon that climbs the skies
Till he halts, snorting, on the cliff to dare a
leap to Paradise!
Pert Puck swings on a manjar bush; Titania
weaves herself a scarf
Out of a shower of opal spray; belike you
hear old Bottom laugh!
And Mustardseed hops from that vine—he
told Europa he would pull
A thorny-twisted strand to make a curbing
bridle for, her bull.
If some pale clerk (on shandygaff) half-
drunk had stayed behind the crowd
How he would sober at the sight, too much
surprised to swear aloud !
Europa with a naughty laugh, to make a
mock at his distress,
Would pull his brilliant blazer off to shield
her radiant nakedness.
Bacchus, red-haired and young, might play
at ninepins with the “dead marines,”
His leopards with long golden eyes watch-
ful behind lantana screens,
Nosing a half-smoked cigarette, suspicious
of a sardine tin
That shines like armor where the leaves draw
back to let the moonshine in.
When the hot noon is on the shore, and
trains come hissing from the town,
And Mrs. Jones expounds the last of gos-
sip’s lies to Mrs. Brown,
And sticky children splash and bawl, and
stout papas are “boys again,”
The wind retreats to some blue cave beyond
the shorelines of the main.
But when the trains go back to town and
holiday is overpast,
The magic wind blows in again and there
is triumph in its blast.
It summons up the ancient gods from some
spice-drugged enchanted isle,
And sweeps away the lesser things, smug
Commerce with its rank ana file,
The flannels of the city clerk, the flapper’s
brief and gaudy dress,
And shows the wonder of the gods in all
their glorying nakedness.
QUEENSLAND.
*
M. FORREST.


“Silas Grubstakes”: Outside the place
where I negotiate three courses for a
coupler-bob I met a down-and-outer, who
touched me for another sixpence. “I used
to work in restaurants,” he confided, “but
these typewritten menus queered my pitch.”
“A waiter?” I queried. “Waiter! Nah!
I was a menu-reciter. I stood at the door
and told customers all about it. Twenty-
seven dishes I could rattle off, not counting
vegetables, and never the same grub twice.
People used to get hungry listening to me.”
He paused. “Once I waited table when we
had a full house,” he said sadly, “but I
could never remember wliat they ordered.
‘You’re a bum waiter, Bill,’ the boss said
to me, ‘but, my Gord, lad, when you stand
at the door, you earn your pay. S’elp me,
when I hear you recite them dishes I could
almost eat ’em meself—if we ’ad ’em.’ ”
* * # *
“Oxmead”: Medical practitioners seem to
be playing a bigger part in politics than ever
before, Earle Page and Nott were well in
the forefront at the Federal elections; Neville
Howse was among defeated Ministers, and
Maloney, Melbourne’s “little doctor,” found
no one to challenge him in his Labor strong-
hold. Health Minister Arthur is a prominent
figure in the N.S.W. Cabinet, and Dr. Argyle
of McPherson’s in Victoria. In the House
of Commons there are quite a number of doc-
tors, several of them, including a lady
medico, in the Labor ranks. But, except the
evergreen Maloney, few members of the heal-
ing profession in Australia have found their
way into Labor caucuses. The pioneer was
Dr. Hollis, of Goulburn, who came in with
N.S.W.’s first Labor party in 1891. Another
was Dr. Ellis, who represented Coolgardie in
the Assembly which supplied Westralia with
its first Labor Ministry (1904-05). But his
term was very brief and he never obtained
a second one.
* « # *
“The Gaffer”: Sir Jagadis Bose, a Hindu
scientist of some repute, has announced his
discovery of an unknown plant in the un-
trodden recesses of the Himalayas, the extract
of which has the power of restoring life. I
am reminded of a lanky individual with a
nasal accent who used to tour the out-back
shows and race-meetings in Queensland sell-
ing a marvellous preparation which had
practically the powers claimed for that dis-
covered by Sir Jag. My old friend, who
styled himself “Sequah,” and filled in lulls
in the panacea business by pulling teeth
NIL DESPERANDUM.
MABEL : “He’s down for the wool sales and the races —another of the landed gentry, I
suppose?”
ISABEL: “No, not yet. But Sybil has hopes.”
free of charge and selling wonderful jewellery,
used to tell his audiences that the secret
plant from which his life-saver was ex-
tracted grew only i n a hidden recess of the
Kooky Mountains, where it and its proper-
ties had been revealed to him by an ancient
Indian squaw, the last of her race. The
magic medicine sold like hot cakes until
in eitermg authority found one day that it
contained <5 p. c . 0 f p roo f alcohol.
❖ * =!:
, : Perth and its environs have
an , unpleasant sensation by the
an a Ueged lunatic and proved mur-
omfJt ° esca Ped from Claremont Asylum,
fJr.n ( a n! I ’fi' Spending a few days at liberty
i™., 6 evening newspaper to mention
S hour a t which he would return
• Westralia’s most notorious
„ 111 3ustice during this century was
& ar named Sutcliffe, who effected a
Jack Slieppard-like escape from the Kai-
goorlie lockup just after he had been sen-
tenced to a long term of penal servitude, and
whom the Law never laid hands on again.
Like the Claremont lunatic, he sent com-
munications to newspapers—or, at all events,
editors printed letters purporting to come
from him; the difference was that, instead
of indicating any intention of giving him-
self up, he boastfully defied the police to
pick up his tracks. They never could, though
there was good reason to believe that he
did not leave the State. Twenty years after
his sensational escape, it was widely rumored
that a prosperous pastoralist who had just
died on a Murchison station had left papers
which raised something more than a presump-
tion that he was the ex-burglar and fugitive
from justice, who had thrown off his old
identity and real name and taken to the
paths of righteousness.
* * * *
“Nero”: Shorts may have been officially
barred in France and Palestine, but they
were regulation wear in Mesopotamia and on
the Indian north-west frontier, both for
white and native troops. And for all regi-
mental ranks, too, though I seem to recollect
that a few colonels and sucli-like stuck to
their whipcord or drill breeches. We used to
get horrible sores in Mesopotamia, but they
were no worse on the exposed parts of our
legs than elsewhere. I was out of action for
weeks with them, but they attacked my feet
only. Doctors attributed them to a sort of
scurvy, due to the lack of anti-scorbutic
rations. Later in the campaign our exposed
legs, under the fierce sun and scorching
blasts, became leathery.
:J: ;!: ❖
“Mulgo” : Sales of spectacle cases found
among mail matter are held periodically;
recently the Sydney Postal Department
auctioned no less than 300. It is presumed
that the absent-minded beggars responsible
for this curious addition to the postal
revenue hold the spec-cases in their hands
while peering at the address on the letter
to make sure it is right; then they drop
the case through the slot and return the
letter to their pockets. Afterwards they
wonder where they lost the case, and how
they came to forget to post the letter.
Occasionally the thoughtless person takes
his spectacles off and posts them. Compared
with these lapses, the unaddressed letter
and the addressed and stamped envelope
with no letter in it are simple mistakes.
* * *
“Stellsby”: Talking of linguists, the best
I ever struck was a Cunard interpreter; I
believe he spoke every European language,
with a few Asiatic ones thrown in. Any-
how, I never knew him unable to translate
a foreign passenger’s grievance, and the
Cunarders carried a choice assortment of the
world’s nationals to the U.S. in pre-quota
days. The interpreter was a Cockney Jew
of Polish extraction who had travelled ex-
tensively on the Continent in the clothing
trade. Some of the world's best linguists
are to be met among the Yiddishers east of
Aldgate, few of whom ever saw the inside
of a college or university.
“Nakhoda”: For the linguistic stakes I
nominate the small daughter of a member
of the Eastern Extension Telegraph Co., at
present living in Victoria. Born in Java,
she spoke Malay, Dutch and a little Java-
nese. Her parents were transferred to Cap
St. Jaque, in French Cochin-China, and she
promptly forgot those three and started to
chatter French and Annamito. A year in
China gave her a good grasp of Mandarin
and the Shanghai dialects, and after six
months in Manila she was talking Tagalog
and American, having now completely for-
gotten Dutch, Malay, Javanese, Annamite
and Chinese. After two years in Australia
she is laboriously re-learning French, and
is at the bottom of her class in that sub-
ject. Children learn languages naturally
and forget them as easily.
* * * *
“Clarence Cafeteria”: Of late years in
Melbourne there has been an extraordinary
increase in the number of cosmopolitan
cafes; there is a small area around Little
Bourke-street where it is possible to ex-
perience as many culinary shocks and mys-
teries as in London’s Soho. The only dif-
ference is that whereas in Soho a foreign
meal invariably costs anything up to three
times as much as a British one, the Mel-
bourne alien manages to undercut liis Aus-
tralian competitors. An Italian meal guaran-
teed to pleasantly distend the waistband can
be obtained for half a dollar, with an ex-
cellent table wine thrown in gratis. One
reason is that the alien proprietor seldom
observes Arbitration awards, even if he has
heard of their existence. A Greek “useful”
recently sued his late Bulgarian employer
for arrears of wages, asserting that he
cleaned fish, opened oysters and did a bit of
cooking from 8 in the morning till midnight,
with two breaks of half an hour to renew
IT’S EASY TO BARE.
THE SHEIK: “Good-oh! Why, a few years ago you used to go into the water dressed
like old Mother Hubbard.”
THE SHEIK'S MISSUS: “Yes, and now we go dressed like her cupboard.”
his drooping spirits. Some interfering person
had apparently told him that this was con-
trary to the laws of his adopted country and
that he was entitled to £9 13s. a week,
instead of the £3 16s. his niggardly em-
ployer vouchsafed him. . The Court partially
agreed with him.
* * * *
“X.D.” : It is not only at election meet-
ings that the quality of repartee is improv-
ing. A solicitor in a St. Kilda court re-
cently asked a police officer whether it was
a sign of drunkenness for a man to put his
arms round a constable’s neck, and the John
Hop answered in the affirmative. “And if
a woman put her arms round a constable’s
neck.” went on the Gent. One, “what would
that indicate?” “Good judgment,” replied
the witness.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Helensville, in the North
Island of Maoriland, is one of those small
towns where life drifts along so placidly that
it was shaken to its foundations the other
day when John Grey, prosperous land-agent,
resident of 13 years’ standing, ardent church-
man, member of all the clubs, supporter of
every local movement and agent of the Public
Trustee, was waited on by Auckland ’tecs
and Sheriff John Bigham, of Bell County,
Texas, U.S.A., and arrested on a charge of
forgery. The Yankee sheriff says that he
identifies Grey as one A.
B. Crouch, who beat two
banks in a small town
called Temple, in Texas,
for 150,000 dollars. It is
suggested that the where-
abouts of Crouch . was
known for years by the
banks, but that they fore-
bore to incur the expense
of bringing him back from
M.L. until they were
satisfied that he had be-
come a man of substance.
A flat denial that he is
the wanted man is made
by Grey. Bail was fixed at £OOOO, pending
the arrival of documentary evidence from
America.
* * * *
“Ex-Loco” : Most engine-drivers could tell
of narrow squeaks with reckless motorists.
Once, approaching a crossing, I saw a car
coming and sounded my five-seconds whistle
ineffectively. The more I whistled the faster
the car travelled. Finally, I shut off steam
and applied emergency brakes just in time
for the car to dash across in front of my
train, the fool at the wheel waving his hand
as he passed. That was exasperating enough,
but next day, at the station near the crossing,
a 10-year-old bov came up to the engine and
remarked: “You nearly ran into us yesterday
evening. You would have got into trouble
if you had.” Fortunately for the youngster.
I got the guard’s signal to go before I could
do justice to my feelings.
“Nakhoda” : The elasticity of the Islamic
law with regard to marriage (B. 2/10/’29)
is one reason why Mohammedan mission-
aries are everywhere making more progress
than their Christian competitors. In the
Dutch East Indies a man may marry where
he pleases provided the lady is willing. He
negotiates with the parents in deference to
custom, but in face of their refusal he can
clear out with the damsel and the ecclesi-
astical authorities will support him. Nor
is a man limited to the statutory four
wives; he may take to himself as many
asi he can stand. lie obtains divorce
on the pretext of incompatibility or whim,
and pays a fee of one dollar, with no
publicity incurred. If the woman asks for
the separation it will cost, her 10 dollars.
Three divorces per person is the limit. The
wedding ceremony entails, for the man,
sitting naked to the waist and bolt upright
on a throne for three days and nights, with
brief intervals for tucker; but even here the
Moslem is complaisant. In the case of an
Englishman who married a native recently
the three days were abridged to one, and he
was allowed to retain his tunic.
*** . *
“Bookaloo”: “Sol M.” is right in his con-
jecture that some of these persons who claim
to be walking round Australia (or the world)
are not above getting a lift over that long
stretch between Kalgoorlie and Port Aug-
usta (B. 2/10/’29). The 1051 miles which
the Trans, line traverses are mostly water-
less and hold few except railway employees.
And food for travellers can ill he spared in
camps that are served only twice weekly.
At Port Augusta five years ago I met an
acquaintance in a hotel who introduced me
to his two companions as men who were
walking around the world. I was less in-
terested in their itinerary than in their
capacity for beer, which seemed hardly likely
to be an asset in the job they had on hand.
Later I learned that the Railway Depart-
ment had had them put off several
trains, but had no opportunity of handing
them over to the police until a settled dis-
trict was reached. They were later arrested
at Port Pirie.
“lan C.”: Going through some records
the other day a Vic penal officer sighed as
he came on the name and record of a once
notorious horse-stealer, one who never an-
nexed any but well-bred prads. So far from
resisting temptation he invited it by carry-
ing a piece of rope, usually 10 feet long.
While in prison the hag-fancier was a model,
and preferred the Good Book to any other
volume. The ruling passion persisted to the
end; he was found in a paddock with a bit
of rope and a Bible alongside him. Also, a
horse that didn’t belong there was hard by.
“And he was just about due back at Pent-
ridge when his corpse was found,’’ added the
penal officer, regretfully.
* * * *
“Yerdikken”: The Hollander is undoubt-
edly a good linguist (B. 9/10/’29), but I doubt
whether he has any more natural capacity in
that line than the Anglo-Saxon. He talks
many languages because, belonging to a small
nation, he has to. A Dutch doctor in Java
who spoke 11 languages told me that as a
university student in Holland he had to study
mathematics in English, chemistry in Ger-
man, physiology in French, with Latin and
Greek thrown in for makeweights. Follow-
ing up one line of research he found that, all
the writing on the subject was in Russian,
so lie learnt to read that language. The
Briton is under no such obligation. More-
over, he finds all foreigners in conspiracy to
prevent him learning their language. I went
to some pains to acquire Dutch; but I have
yet to meet a Netherlander who will allow
me to conduct a conversation in his lingo.
The dozen superb drawings which Norman
Lindsay did to illusti'ate “The Quarter-
master’’ have been reproduced in two-tone
ink on art paper, and are now on sale at The
Bulletin’s chief office, Sydney, and at all
branch offices. The complete set of one
dozen drawings costs only 25., and to put
country subscribers on the same footing as
those of the cities, the set will be sent post-
free from the head office to any address in
Australasia.
A SWAN SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The average family nowadays is only three. Very
few families have more than five.”
A n d still the statist smiles and plies his pen,
No blush i.s his for shame at damage done,
Or sorrow for his scurvy action when
He robbed me of a fame so hardly won.
He cares not that, his idle words proclaim
V woman to be shunned and disbelieved,
Or that the listening world may promptly
A creature that has cheated and deceived.
O cruel Fate! The same news-sheet that
made me
Now promulgates the tidings of my end;
The editors who loved me now upbraid me;
No more am I philosopher and friend.
And none is there who feels the hot tears
rising
Or sniffles one weak sniff at my sad story ;
Humanity’s aloof, unsympathising;
A statist’s feet have trampled on my glory.
For who on earth will now believe me when
I sign myself “Sincerely, ‘Mother of Ten’ ” /
VICTORIA.
COVOT.


đ
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD.
Total Assets exceed £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington* Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
U)
(2)
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.F.A.:
Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
I*s) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost eveiy contingency.
V NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications tor Agencies invited from men of integrity .
H E BIDEN, Secretary. GEO. P,EUCE SMITH, General Manager.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's "Hold Everything”
Criterion "Lombardi, Ltd.”
Royal Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
Majestic (Newtown) .... "The School for Scandal”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty's “Brewster’s Millions”
King's "Whoopee”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt's Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
Olympia Wirths’ Circus
With the imminent doom of the legitimate
theatre being proclaimed from every movie
magnate’s rolltop, the 11 weeks’ run of
“Journey’s End” at Melbourne Royal should
give the Firm something to think about. It
lias been asserted that the unpretentious
piece actually carried the expensive “Show
Boat” on its back, though when it arrived the
experts confidently predicted that it would
last about a fortnight.
All the old arguments were used. It was
realism, and the public won’t stand realism.
The ending was unhappy, and the public
hates an unhappy ending. There were no
beauteous flappers in it on whom the robes
mistress could hang a succession of the
latest modes from Broadway, and the pub-
lic must have beauteous flappers and a par-
ade of the latest fashions. Nevertheless, in
the face of the fiercest competition ever known
in local amusement circles, the piece slowly
but surely triumphed over these drawbacks.
It would be foolish, however, to claim that
its success was entirely due to its intrinsic
dramatic merits. Many Diggers went out of
curiosity to examine its technical points—
though, be it said—a probably equal number
stayed away because of a natural dislike of
being harrowed all over again. Some people,
no doubt, enjoyed the comedy while shutting
their minds to the deep note of tragedy which
underlies even Lieut. Potter’s complaints
about the coffee. But, on the whole, the
play could not have lasted as long as it has
if there had not been a general realisation of
the intense sincerity and the natural beauty
which are its chief attributes. And, as said
just now, that there is at least some demand
for sincerity and beauty on the stage ought
to give the Firm something to think about.
It is safe to say that the screen—in its
present condition, at any rate —is quite in-
Miss HUNTER-WATTS, with Allan Wilkie in revivals of
masterpiece comedies at . Newtown (Sydney ) Majestic.
capable of doing justice to a play as finely
shaded as this one. The fact that the screen
version has a woman in it tends to confirm
this. In their own province the talkies are
all they are cracked up to be and more.
They can make melodrama plausible and
cause you to forget the thinness of their
emotions by bombarding your eye with spec-
tacle. But whenever they put on the mantle
of Shakspeare or even the cap and bells of
Maugham they only succeed in making.them-
selves ridiculous. Great drama is still the
sole monopoly of the flesh-and-blood stage;
and it is time that timid entity realised it.
“Journey’s Ends” don’t grow on rose
bushes, however. The vast mass of the so-
called intellectual drama is theatrically poor
stuff. Much of it is written by persons who
appear to have mistaken their vocation. They
ought to have been clergymen. Most show
no knowledge of stage-craft. Many have
minds but no hearts and others are all heart
but quite mindless. Nevertheless, one could
mention a dozen plays which have had suc-
cess overseas and which Australia has never
seen, except, perhaps, in a bad amateur per-
formance. There is at least one Australian
play which comes under this category. The
Firm has let these chances slip by in the
past possibly because they weren’t chances —
or rather, because they were too chancey.
But the position now is different. The
logic of economic facts may cause Australian
managements to change their policy. If they
thereby gain an artistic reputation, nobody
need grumble.
It is doubtful whether a country can be
really healthy without a healthy school of
drama —one that will rake society fore and
aft, bombard its frauds with laughter and
put an occasional charge of scepticism under
its delusions. The reverse method has been
tried and there are 49 fresh films on mother-
love weekly; yet we are not loving each
other any better.
Allan Wilkie’s revival of Sheridan’s gos-
sipy “School for Scandal” at Newtown
Majestic merits a hearty welcome for sundry
reasons. It is well cast, admirably dressed,
convincingly produced. The players know
their paces—a pleasant change after the
sorry spectacle of amateur and other people
belatedly howling down. the prompter.
It ought to be an impertinence to say of
actors that they know their parts; but the
virtue is so rare that its discovery is a
piece of news, like any other phenomenon.
The comedy, of course, has its own merits.
The number' of points at which Sheridan
stands out as one of those plagiarists of
the past who forestalled the average
dramatist of to-day is remarkable. The plot
of the old screen scene, wherein the lady is
hidden behind the furniture and husband and
another caller keep the chap who hid her
on tiptoe by almost getting a glimpse of her,
is scarcely ever left out of anything that pre-
tends to tickle an audience’s ribs. The joke
of fumbling over a man’s name, calling “Trip”
“Tripe,” is another amuser that no respec-
table humorist dares to avoid. An interesting
point about these stock ideas is that they
still do amuse. In
spite of the fact
that every single
laugh-provoker in
Sheridan’s piece
has been hackneyed
to tatters, the play,
as put on here, still
gets a crowd of
laughs, and de-
serves them.
The Majestic,
which is a better-
appointed theatre
than most in the
city, appears to
call for vigorous
enunciation. At
any rate, this
Showman’s keen
ears detected only
a word here and
there until Lorna
Forbes (Mrs. Can-
dour) stepped on.
The quality of the
first scene at once
lifted appreciably,
and after Allan
Wilkie and Miss
Hunter-Watts (Sir
Peter and Lady
Teazle) introduced
themselves in the
second scene, the
acoustic trouble, or
whatever it was,
vanished, and the
play remained to the
end a well-acted
and diverting com-
edy. First-class
dressing helps to
the success, and
the charming
eighteenth - century
minuet music adds
more convincing
touches. But the
best example of
good stagecraft lies in the fact that the gos-
sipers, which includes almost everyone, are
genuinely interested in the gossipry. The
audience is ignored, as it ought to be:
genuinely interested in the gossipry. The
wall players. And the total result is real
acting that is worth going a long way—even
as far as Newtown —to witness.
¥ ¥ *
There are several things about Nancy
Weir, the 14-year-oldster whose benefit
attracted 3000 to Melbourne Town Hall on
Saturday, which makes this paper feel con-
siderable confidence about her future. When
she played a difficult concerto of Beethoven
a couple of months ago she was notably
deficient in the physical strength required
to give body and substance to that master’s
more weighty moments. In her playing of
the Theme and Variations (14 of ’em) of
Glazounow’s op. 72 on Saturday there was
no lack of volume. Nancy's small digits made
the more sombre passages roll forth in all,
or nearly all, their pomp and circumstance.
Nor was she found wanting in the softer
incidents. Her touch was smooth, delicate
and intelligent. There was no sentiment
about her. Senti-
meut in one of
tender years is
loathsome. Never-
theless, there was
just enough natu-
ral feeling in her
rendering to sug-
gest that Nancy
is no mere pianola
record with the
notes stamped on
it by childish imi-
tativeness under
adult direction.
She was also at
home in Schu-
mann’s “Scenes
from Childhood,”
and her Chopin
panel had merit.
A couple of little
pieces of her own
composition were
melodious.
* ¥
In Wirths’ Cir-
cus, which arrived
at its indoor quar-
ters at Melbourne
Olympia on Fri-
day, the gymnastic
acts appear to be
more thrilling and
miraculous than
hitherto, or else
the present com-
mentator has en-
tered his second
childhood. The
sturdiest member
of the Palomar
family throws her
offspring about
with the deadliest
precision while
father lies on his
spine and receives
the hurtling bodies
with feet as ten-
derly. solicitous as a mother’s bosom. And
so with others. Fifty tong or so of elephant
equipped with voices surprisingly like those
of moving-picture actresses perform the cus-
tomary evolutions in the tan. A long and a
short clown are only physically funny.
Chester Dieck, the Indian cyclist marvel,
rides down a flight of steps and somersaults
through a ring of fire. The six Pure
White Polar Bears did their ingloi’ious
duties on Friday, it seemed, not be-
cause they liked them, but because they
liked their trainer’s anger less.
“August, 1914,” served on Saturday night
both to inaugurate a new policy at Melbourne
Tivoli and to introduce Ernest Lotinga and
his English 18 of comedy stalwarts. The
new policy is really an old policy revived.
The Brough-Boucicaults made the rafters of
the old Rickards house ring with such pal-
pable burlesque 30 years ago.
“August, 1914,” plies for custom on the
old melodrama pitch, but more or less masks
the hollowness of its soul by doing its
stuff with its loquacious tongue in its cheek.
Here we have the ancient appeal to a simple
patriotism dressed up in the clothes and
spirit with which the Empire, convinced that
the affair would be over by Christmas, went
blithely to war 15 years ago. The comic
reliefs are the familiar parodies of the com-
mon soldier which a nation in the throes of
a titanic struggle for its existence was onlv
too glad to accept as the genuine article on
the strength of Bairnsfather’s sketches.
The audience on Saturday was also appa-
rently glad to'accept it, “Journey’s End”
and “AH Quiet on the Western Front” not-
withstanding. The acting, on the whole
mediocre, yet interests if only by its out-and-
out Englishness. Kathleen Barbor serves
the elementary purposes of the heroine;
and the laughs Lotinga extracts are a tribute,
mild enough, to the playwrights, Con West
and Herbert C. Sergeant.
* * ¥
Linda Parker, a youthful product of the
Albert-street Con., and Madame Joy Mc-
Ardcn, the Uni. prima donna, were amongst
the contributors to last week’s orgy of music
in Melbourne. Both were at the Assembly
Hall. Miss Parker’s piano playing revealed
good technique and considerable feeling. In
a series of concerts Madame McArden turned
every facet of her singing art to small but
appreciative audiences. She sang in French,
English, German, Italian and other lan-
guages, and went back to 1391 for examples.
Madame has her moments. Her voice is
strong, though its strength is sometimes
superior to its variety. There is more
diversity in the character of her selections
than there is in the interpretative moods she
brings to bear on them. Madame never has
this paper in a state of painful suspense
as to what she is going to say next, musi-
cally speaking. Nevertheless, she is always
good to look on and has some pleasurable
notes in her vocabulary.
* * *
When M.-G.-M.’s talkie version of “Madame
X” was turned loose on a Sydney Royal
audience on Saturday night, all the troublq
English leading lady KATHLEEN BARBOR, helping Ernest
Lotinga to reintroduce burlesque at Melbourne Tivoli.
of a fortnight back, when a mechanical
breakdown made characters mouth words
that belonged to a few scenes earlier, had
vanished, and a packed house enjoyed
Jacqueline’s plunge from the maternal
throne to the pavement. Lloyd George and
his daughter Megan saying a few words
about the British Labor movement, _ Craig
Campbell’s fine tenor and Emil Borea’s idea
of the “Dance of the Wooden Soldier" filled
out a creditable bill.
* * *
Adelaide Repertory Theatre is getting
good service from its club evenings, at which
a talk by some veteran critic is sandwiched
between short plays by the junior aspirants.
The last bill was tremendously ambitious.
Conan Doyle's Waterloo-veteran study, with
“Comedy and Tragedy,” which Gilbert wrote
to help Mary Anderson show off both sides
of her art. Frank Part, who has been play-
ing minor characters with the Rep. for years,
gave a good study of the veteran; and Mimi
Mattin showed tremendous powder as the
comic actress w T lio pleads for her husband’s
life—and is thought to be still acting.
# * *
Versatile comedian Frank O’Brian has re-
turned to Sydney Fuller’s, and liabituds have
small cause for tears either in the vaudeville
or in “All Smiles on the Western Front."
which winds up the programme. The
O’Brian himself is a genuine comedian of
considerable versatility, and he has a good
foil’ in Joe. Hudson. Janice Hart scores
heavily with her songs and dance items, and
Marie Ward provides a song and ballet turn
of unusual merit. Mabelle Morgan, Gordon
Norville and Eric Masters are among the
others who make up a clever and well-trained
ensemble.
“Goldilocks” : The death of Ada Crossley,
the Gippsland nightingale and originally
pupil of that unassuming lady Madame
Fanny Simonsen, recalls that when she was
touring Maoriland in 1903 the misdeeds and
bad cheques of a minor company had caused
the newspapers of Palmerston North to agree
to insist upon payment in advance for all
theatrical ads. When that demand was
made upon Pete Hughes, then J.C.W.’s M.L-
representative, it staggered him. “But this
is the Ada Crossley tour!” he said. “It is
being run by ,T. C. Williamson.” “We don’t
care if it’s being run by the Flying Cosj
groves,” he was told. “The terms are cash.”
Ada, who was 55 when the curtain fell, had
been regarded for years as the greatest
singer in oratorio in Britain.


d
THE ROAD-holding, gripping,
triangle pattern tread of the
Perdriau tyre lasts for a definitely
longer time than does the average—
and when that tread finally does go, the
famous Perdriau cords and walls are
always safe for re-treading.
A tyre that quickly degenerates
into smooth, slippery roundness does
not permit of any extra margin of
speed. Buy Perdriaus always, for
the safe high average as well as for
comfort.
Perdriau Tyres are a
technical triumph
of toughness .
TYRES
/TOUGH ISIAPI&i wwk
Obtainable from
your Garage and
Tyre Dealer.
Dunlop Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
Main Offices and Warehouse now situated at
27-33 WENTWORTH AVENUE, SYDNEY
Branches and Depots at all principal Centres.


R°NE.°
BRITISH
DUPLICATOR
will produce typewritten letters and
print office stationery in any quan-
tities.
Bn
Particulars
from
Sydney:
21 Hunter Street.
Melbourne:
G 4 Market Street.
Brisbane:
43 Creek Street.
Adelaide:
Gawler Place.
Perth:
107 Murray Street.
Pioneer
ttATMEK.
*fLTING
BUILT TO
ENDURE
Pioneer Belting has a tremendous
reserve of wear resistance not found
in belts less carefully, less conscien-
tously, built. Properly specified
Pioneer Belting assures you that
your machines will deliver full rated
horse-power and that you will have
continuous transmission at mini-
mum cost per year of service.
PIONEER Leather Belting
MADE AND GUARANTEED BY
J. C. LUDOWiCI & SON, LTD.,
Pioneer House, 117 YORK STREET. SYDNEY (our only city address).
Post Graduate
Business Courses
FAR more intricate systems of trading
and finance are demanded in countries
which have been famous throughout cen-
turies of industry and commerce than m
so young a nation as ours. Learn about
these systems from the famous international
executive Courses of the Alexander Hamilton
Institute (U.K. and U.S.A.).
The first, “MODERN BUSINESS COURSE
AND SERVICE,” deals with business m
general. The second, “MODERN MER-
CHANDISING COURSE AND SERVICE, -
is written for the store owner or executive.
Write to-day for the 96-page book entitled,
“Forging Ahead in Business.”
Alexander Hamilton Institute Courses
controlled and adapted for Australia by
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON
MELBOURNE: 38 Bank House, Bank Place,
410-412 Collins Street.
SYDNEY: 38 Barrack House, 16 Barrack
Street.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
♦ : •
The New Era Insurance Co. —a Warning
to Small Investors.
Excess
• Income. Claims. Exes. Outgo. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
May, Preliminary exes., £2332 .. .. 2,332
1924.. 14,702 517 25,085 10,840 13,172
June,
1925*. 26,678 1126 32,163 6,611 19,783
1926.. 26,544 544 25,902 98f 19,685
1927.. 22,306 2165 27,953 7.512 27,497
Shares in other cos. written down,
£12,522 40,019
Transfer from general reserve, £7llO 32,909
1928.. 26,372 2323 33,990 9,941 42,850
Forfeited shares, etc., £5060 . . 37,784
Written off, £19,795 .. .. 57,579
1929.. 21,205 3762 26,286 8,843 66,422
*l3 months. fExcess income.
It is a table like that which makes The
Bulletin in its benevolent moments want
to send a copy of the “Wild Cat” pages to
every possible policy-holder and small in-
vestor in the country. But even then it is
doubtful whether the go-getter wouldn't
score. It seems hopeless _to try to protect
.some people against their own credulity.
After only six years of effort the New Era’s
finances were in such a hopeless, condition
that, in order to save the jeopardised in-
terests of policy-holders, it has been
forced to.give up the struggle. Except, per-
haps, for a trifle of the pref. capital, the
whole of the £78,546 put up by shareholders
has been lost. And there is no doubt at all
that the people who were induced to take
out policies could have done far better some-
where else.
The co.’s failure was due primarily" to
heavy lapses, which, of course, quickly made
the costs crippling. The co. was floated in
Melbourne in 1923 by Charles Watson, who
became its managing director. He got £lOOO
cash, but no further consideration, so the
loading was only £lOOO too much to begin
with. But the market was very much over-
crowded with post-war insurance floats,
which meant that capital was shy and busi-
ness difficult and costly to get. Then the
backwash from legal actions in which the
co. and some of its officers became involved
in N. S. Wales put more obstacles in the
way. and the business started downhill with
tin* brakes off.
I.ook at these figures:—
1925. 1927. 1928. 1929.
Policies . . 1,004 652 883 817
Amount . . £501,000 £279,675 £360,475 £273,296
First premiums 18,840 10,706 13,248 10,561
Total renewals 7,563 10,876 11,959 9,538
Interest, rents, etc. 275 723 1,165 1,106
For the. five years to the close of accounts
in 1928 the co. put on the books assurances
totalling £1,859,715, and only £642,375 of
it then remained in force. This business
represented an annual income of £29,284;
yet last year’s renewals were only £9538.
Even if it could have kept the business the
position would have been bad enough, for
it was costing the co. more than two years’
premiums to put business on the books ; that
is on the assumption that first premiums are
10 times more expensive to gather than
renewals. In such circumstances, the days
of a concern with a capital of only 178,000-
odd were obviously numbered. Further, it
is now plain that much of the co.’s recent
business was “forced.” The management
must have known this and the inevitable
consequence, yet it continued to fritter away
almost the last shilling of shareholders’
money before making up its mind to face
the inevitable.
Fortunately the board has been able to
sell the co.’s few remaining contracts at a
figure which, after undressing the window,
will enable it to transfer to the purchaser
sufficient net tangible assets to cover the
actuarial liability under policies (£28,314)
at June 30. Thus policy-holders get .away
from the wreck without losing any of the
face value of the cover they have taken out.
The buyer, the Southern Cross Assurance
Co., is' to pay £15,070 (the amount to
which the New Era’s establishment account
has been adjusted) for goodwill, being
120 p.c. of the annual premium income on
policies over one year in force plus the
actuarial reserve on last year’s new business.
At June 30 the Southern Cross had net tan-
gible assets with a book value of £391,644,
including the accident reserve (,£9458) and
some pre-payments, to cover the £282,624 at
which its life fund figured. So holders of
the transferred policies have gained stronger
protection for their contracts.
Now look at the enfeebled state of the
New Era’s finances :
1924. 1928. 1929.
Government securities.. £lO,OOO £18,223 £11,200
Mortgages . . . . 5,100 5,100
Properties . . . . 0,723 3,600
Shares in other cos... - 10,100 9,077
Loans on policies . . 1,565 215
Book debts .. .. 1,157 10,182 3,080
Cash, etc 276 734 28
Equipment, etc. .. 2,774 3,787 1,537
Total tangible assets £14,207 £51,414 £33,837*
Less liabilities (except
on policies) .. 5,901 15,586 21,713
Net tangible assets .. £8,306 £35,828 £12,124
Paid capital .. ■. 21,410 78,389 78,546
'Excluding £7057 owing on forfeited shares.
Those figures do not take into account £7057
owing on forfeited shares at June 30 —the
chances of the liquidator being able to col-
lect any of it are pretty slender. More hot
air was let out of the assets; £18,795 was
struck off the book value of properties, shares
and debtors’ balances. The £9077 at which
shares in the Pioneer Life and Accident
Co. figure is mostly offset by £5793 owing
to that co. as a depositor.
Adding to the £12,124 of net tangibles
shown in the table above, the amount due
on forfeited shares, £1983 of arrears on
live shares and the cash consideration from
the Southern Cross you get a total of
£36,234. But £28,314 of that belongs to
policy-holders, leaving a book surplus of
£7920 to cover the cost of liquidation
and represent £78,546 of paid capital—
there are 72,903 pref. and 44,077 ord. shares,
all of 10s. each. The ords., of course, will
get nothing; whether there will be anything
for the prefs. depends upon the liquidator’s
prospects of collecting the amounts owing
on shares. The chairman’s hope is that the
prefs. will got a shilling in the pound. Even
that seems optimistic.
The failure of the New Era clearly demon-
strates the evil consequences of extravagant
expenditure in an effort to force business.
It is also a plain call to some of the other
young offices to closely overhaul their
methods. Also, the fact that policy-holders
were perilously near a loss makes clear the
need for legislation to protect their interests.
As it is, of course, they have missed the
bonuses which they might have got else-
where.
Castlemaine Perkins, Ltd. (Brisbane).
To Re- Re-
.Tuly, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
36,076
1926.. 31,251 8 p.c. = 21,810 9,441 45,517
1927.. 42,678 8 „ ~ 29,212 13,466 58,983
1928.. 48,741 1° ». ’’ 37,396 } 10,345 69,328
Provident fund, £lOOO )
Perkins’s business absorbed; added
reserves, £20,000.. .. .. 89,328
1929.. 80,293 10 p.c.= 59,934 J lg 859 Mg,187
Provident fund, £l5OO f
The figures in the foregoing table for the
years prior to 1929 are those of the clumsily-
named Castlemaine Brewery and Quin-
lan. Gray and Co., Brisbane., Ltd.
Perkins’, once the most prosperous of Queens-
land breweries, had dropped badly behind
in recent years. For the 12 months to Feb.
29, 1928, it had registered a trading loss of
£16,561. Moreover, competition had sharp-
ened, and costs were on the up-grade; so,
after long consideration, the board sold the
co.’s Toowoomba brewery, part of its Bris-
bane plant, and the trade (only) of its 19
freehold hotels for 25 years, and of 50 lease-
hold hotels for the term of the leases, to the
before-mentioned Castlemaine, Quinlan, Gray
and Co., which thereupon took down the
old sign, and put up the present one. Per-
kins’s are not to carry on any brewing,
malting, wine or spirit business for 12 years
from July, 31, 1928.
The price was stated to be £lOO,OOO in fully-
paid 12s. 6d. shares, but these were apparently
issued at a premium of 2s. 6d. each. At any
rate, the Castlemaine Perkins Co. showed
a profit of £20,000 on the deal, and its
reserves benefited by that amount. In addi-
tion stocks were taken over for cash (amount
unspecified), and, later, some of Perkins’s
hotel freeholds were also bought for cash
(£90,000). The money was provided by
shareholders, who took up an extra 140,000
new 12s. Od. shares at par—Perkins’s share-
holders had an option over 40.000 of them.
In all 400,000 new shares (£250,000) were
put out during tin' year, making paid capi-
tal £622.425 at July 31; there was then
only £2575 to come in.
It was a year of crowded activity for the
co., and the remarkable thing is that the
management was able to make the big
volume of new assets immediately earn their
keep, and a bit more. After setting aside
£20,000 for taxation, the year’s declared net
profit sprang £31,552, reaching 13.4 p.c. on
average capital compared with Castlemaine,
Quinlan’s 13, 11.6 and 11.4 p.c. back to
1926, when the average capital at work was
only £272,625. It is a very encouraging
performance, and a fine testimony to the
energy and ability of the control. The 8
n.c. div. was sweetened with a 2 p.c. bonus,
and after transferring £l5OO to the provi-
dent fund the £18,859 of the year’s net
earnings that remained in the business car-
ried visible reserves to £108,187.
It is only during the last decade that
the Castlemaine management took off its
coat seriously. Not long after the Castle-
maine and Quinlan-Gray businesses were
amalgamated—that W'as in 1887—and after
a guarantee by the vendor had run out,
shareholders went hungry for many years.
Then, following a revision of the book
value of the assets, half the paid capital
was jettisoned in 1902. There w 7 as a run
of small divs. until 1912, when earnings
made a marked recovery and a regular 10
p.c. was paid for the next eight years. Two
bonus issues lifted the share register total,
which had stuck around the £78,000 mark
since the writing down, to £149,436 by 1920,
and the div. was lowered to 8 p.c. Since then
the business has stepped along briskly.
Here is a picture of the changes that
have taken place since 1919 as balance-sheet
figures reflect them :
1919. 1927. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital.. £78,0.69 £372,694 £375,000 £622,425
Liabilities .. 68,853 69,361 86,631 116,386
Brewery build-
ings, plant,
etc 89,912* 159,029 173,028 310,370
IVarehouse . . 22,950 23,580 23,774 32,188
Hotels .. 27,962 151.095 156,443 268,474
Stock . . 27,231 66,516 76,754 108,257
Debtors .. 52,975 107,269 114,212 148,903
Cash, etc. . . 13,949 8,429 10,224 11,363
•Includes unspecified amount of goodwill, since
written off.
The deal with Perkins’s shows up in an all-
round healthy expansion of the figures.
During the year £137,342 w’as added to the
book value of the brewery and plant, and
the figure at which the Adelaide-street ware-
house stands is up £8414. Also £112,031
more was spent on hotel freeholds than w r as
written off, and that looks promising; it
is the way breweries have of ensuring future
income. Book debts were £34,691 heavier,
and stocks up £31,503. Finances were com-
fortable. The more or less liquid surplus
(£152,137, including stocks) was £37,578
stronger than at the previous balance.
Though there is competition from southern
breweries, Castlemaine Perkins, Ltd., and the
Queensland Co. share four-fifths of the trade
in the northern State. So, given sound man-
agement, the maintenance of good profits
should not be a difficult matter. The share-
market, which paid 17s. 9d. for the Castle-
maine Co.’s 12s. 6d. shares a year ago, later
lengthened its offer 205., and there wrns a
sharp rise to 225. 3d. following the publi-
cation of the accounts. At the latter figure
the return is 5.6 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The backing amounts to 14s. Bd. per share
in net tangibles.
The Intercolonial Investment, Land and
Building Co. (Sydney).
To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1918.. 37,605 10 p.c. = 15,708 21,897 137,669
Transferred to capital, £78,373 .. 59,296
Reserves disappeared, £164 .. 59,132
1919.. 39,305 9 p.c. = 21,190 18,115 77,247
Assets written up by £78,277 and transferred
t.o capital.
1920.. 41,789 8 p.c. - 24,321 17,468 94,715
1921.. 40.005 8 „ „ 25,098 14.907 109,622
1922.. 39,931 8 ~ ~ 25,098 14,833 124,455
June,
1923.. 25,993 8 „ „ 16,732 9,261 133,716
1924.. 40,282 8 „ „ 25,098 15,184 148,900
1925.. 40,158 84 „ 26,667 13,491 162,391
1926.. 41,356 94 „ „ 29.803 11.553 173,944
1927.. 42,317 10 „ ~ 31,372 10,9.45 184,889
1928.. 45,058 10 ~ ~ 31,372 13,686 198,575
1929.. 45,946 10 „ „ 31,372 14,574 213,149
Whether this co., which has been subdividing
Sydney suburban properties and financing
home builders for the last 44 ycar.s, is now 7
doing much better than it says it is the
“Wild Cat” does not know. All that can be
said definitely is that the eo. has been extra-
ordinarily successful in the past. Of its
£313,724 of paid capital no less than
£247,266 was provided out of accumulated
profits during the 10 years to 1919. The
last gift (£78,277) came from inner reserves,
and it is reasonable to expect that, out of
more recent earnings, the alert management
has not neglected to make similar provision
against a slump in values and other con-
tingencies.
Compared with the previous balance there
was an extra £13,728 out on advance at June
30, and the hook value of freeholds, etc., was
down £7422, together a suggestion that the
co. has been successfully unloading its pro-
perties and financing buyers for.building pur-
poses. TLnvcver, the declared gross profit on
transactions (£71,200) was £B6 less; but
a cut of £974 in administrative charges
(£26.228) left the net result £BBB stronger v
It w T as 14.9 p.c. on average capital as against'
14.3, 13.4. 13.2 and 12.8 p.c. back to 1925,
so the 10 p.c. wears quite a comfortable
appearance. Incidentally, 10 p.c. now calls
for approximately five times as much as. it
did in 1911. whereas over the same period
net profits have not quite doubled.
Here is a view of the steady progress of
the business as balance-sheet figures disclose
it: —
Property Cash
and and In-
Liabilities. Advances. Premises, vestments.
1915. . £49,324 £224,499 £57,947 £6,863
1920.. 25,947 289,499 84,740 86,896
1923.. 20,098 368,737 73,854 56,378
1924.. 25,044 379,429 94,786 54,103
1925.. 18,428 405,333 81,379 44.271
1926.. 18.088 412,463 85,185 47,694
1927.. 32,739 466,870 74,726 33,941
1928.. 22,633 466,641 74,834 37,843
1929.. 21,984 480,369 67,412 45,411
The most pleasing feature there is the co.'s
comparative independence of outside finance,
a fact which contributes materially to the
popularity of the scrip. When the books
were last ruled off there was 41s. 3d. in cash
and public securities, etc., alone to meet
every pound coming to creditors, who had
only lOd. at risk in the business for each
20s. belonging to shareholders.
The chief risk that shareholders run de-
pends upon things beyond their control.
Much of the co.’s success in the past has
been due to the boom in land values, which
accompanied a long run of loan-inflated
years, fat returns from most of our primary
products, the house shortage brought about
by the Fair Rents Act and the growth of
industrial centres. However, indications now
are that we are probably in for a period of
lower property values and slow sales. The
effect on cos. like this can’t bo either fore-
seen or foretold. The ’nineties showed that
the danger lies in the investment of borrowed
money in fixed assets —land and buildings.
What therefore the investor in such stocks
has to watch is (1) that the borrowings are
small and a good proportion of liquid assets
held against them; (2) that the advances
are not suddenly increased by a large sum
(in a financial crisis it is the new loan
that generally gives the most trouble).
In the event of a crisis more or less of
the properties on which advances have been
made would be thrown on the co.’s hands.
What the loss (if any) upon them would be
would depend on (1) the severity of the
crisis, (2) the amount outstanding. For
many years after the crisis of the ’nineties
no divs. were paid by this co., all current
profits (pretty small as a rule) being
swamped to meet the losses on the fore-
closures.
The market, confident of the management
and the future, pays 355. for the fully-paid
pound shares as against 345. a year ago.
At the current price the return is 5.7 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The backing amounts
to 335. 7d. per share in net tangibles.
Trufood of Australia, Ltd.
Net Towards
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ * £
1924*.- 42,142 26J p.c. = 32,812 9330 23,261
1925.. 17,948 „ „ 15,738 2210 21,051
1926.. 7,818 5 „ „ 7,500 318 20,733
1927.. 18,014 10 ~ „ 15,000 3014 17,719
1928.. 26,791 121 „ „ 18,750 8041 9,678
1929.. 20,635 10 „ ~ 15,000 5635 4,043
* 10 months.
The demand for this Vie. co.’s product—
powdered milk, which it has been manufac-
turing for the last 20 years—depends largely
upon seasonal conditions, and earnings arc
up and down accordingly. During the 12
months to June 30 good rains made fresh
milk available in most places and kept the
price down ; and, though this also helped to
keep production costs down, it slackened
the demand for the powdered article, and
local sales fell away. Still, more was ex-
ported, and the total quantity of powder
sold was the largest yet. But profit margins
in the co.’s export markets are finer than
they are locally, so gross profits (£36,6361
slipped £6470. Also management charges
(£12,871, including £7587 struck off for de-
preciation) were £1666 heavier; but since the
amount set aside for taxation (£3150) w 7 as
£l9BO lighter, the shrinkage in the year’s
final figure was £6156.
A year ago the management was experi-
menting in the. production of powdered fruit
juices for use as drinks and flavorings. The
latest report does not say how the effort
panned out, or to what extent, if any, the
year’s profits were affected thereby. The
£20,635 netted was 13.7 p.c. on average capi-
tal, compared with 17.8. 12, 5.2, 14.2 and
33.7 p.c. back to 1924. The 6d. bonus added
to the 10 p.c. div. in the previous term was
not repeated; thus more than one-third ot
the year’s net earnings was loft in the busi-
ness, reducing the capital unrepresented by
tangibles at June 30 to £4043. The “Wild
Cat” has not treated goodwill (£35,000) as
an asset. Over the last five years share-
holders have averaged 10 p.c., and £19,218.
or 21 p.c. of the aggregate net profits, was
put by. It is not a bad performance, con-
sidering that paid capital stepped up from
£30,000 to £120,000 by bonus issues in the
reconstructions of 1922 and 1923.
Nevertheless, there is always the pos-
sibility that competition might sharpen, and
capital would be none the worse for a lot
more help to see it through possible rough
passages. The co. met with trouble in 1926.
but that was due to the failure of the sub-
sidiary, Trufood Gelatine Pty., Ltd., formed


ď
DRY
1
rv
“i
LV
G ITS
DON’T SAY GIN SAY GILBEYS
101


V
YG
boord&son
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DT
U-Swift & Coi
St., Sydney J 1
mpuny Ltd.. Australasian Agents, 26 30 Clarence
IDEAS FOR YOUR WILL
THE MAIN POINTS ARE—
1. —To appoint a permanent and reliable Executor.
2. —To provide for your wife and family—
(a) Income to your wife; (b) Capital to your children.
3. —To give general instructions to your Executor.
Write or call for our Booklet “The Making of a Will.”
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS & AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
You Don’t Know
what to send your friend for a Christ-
mas gift. On Nov. 6 The Bulletin
will print the opening chapters of
“Merry Christmas!” one of the highly
commended stories in the Prize
Novel Competition. You couldn’t send
anyone a more appropriate Christmas
gift. No story ever written gives a
more vivid picture of the great cattle
country of the North or a truer account
of the way it is worked and the men
who work it. The opening chapters
will reach England and most overseas
countries just before Christmas. Send
us your name and address, with the
name and address of the friend to
whom you want it forwarded,, and we
will post it with your compliments
and good wishes.
Overseas, three months, which will
complete “Merry Christmas!” 8/-; to
any address in Australia or New
Zealand, 7/-. Six months (which will
include Vance Palmer’s “Men Are
Human”), 15/6 (overseas) and 12/6
(Australasian). Twelve months
(which will include also two prize
stories in the next Bulletin £2000
Novel Competition), 30/- and 24/-.
Inventoks. —Have you an idea worm patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagli
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coi.nsox & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. —Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
An investigation into the efficiency and cost of
the various forms of piping clearly shows the many
outstanding advantages possessed by Pioneer Wood
Pipe. Light, strong, durable, easily and cheaply laid,
freighted and transported, costing less in initial cost
and incurring practically no maintenance cost,
unaffected by extremes of heat and cold, or electro-
lysis, and positively non-corrosive. Those interested
are invited to send for a free copy of illustrated
data book to The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd-
Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. (near Figtree
Bridge) ; and at Footscray, Victoria.— Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane: In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES —AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
fisSifil
j
[PREPARED,
Guaranteed by the manufacturers to
go further, last longer and uniformly
give better results than any, other
paint made.—“B.P. W
"KEEPS ON KEEPING ONl”
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
w
*
in the previous year to manufacture milk-
jelly, and in which the Davis Gelatine people
were also interested. The Trufood Co. had
doubled its stocks in expectation of a heavy
call from the pup. Then production had to
be curtailed and prices cut in order to reduce
the uncomfortable size of the accumulations
in the storeroom. However, appearances
are that the bit of a mess was tidied up
pretty thoroughly.
Here is the co.’s position, with compari-
sons. as balance-sheet figures shows it:—
1925. 1927. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital. . £144,762 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities . . 15,747 9,028 15,160 11,340
Freehold . . 19,926 21,725 22,960 22,918
Plant, etc. . . 48,013 42,387 39,863 41,488
Shares in other
cos 850 100 100
Stocks . . 77,179 29,874 45,029 39,640
Hook debts . . 1,395 18,651 -23,660 23,653
Cash, etc. . . 1,457 42,491 41,645 38,973
Finances are quite comfortable. Liabilities,
including £4650 reserved for taxation, were
more than three times covered by cash, etc.,
alone at June 30. During the year the more
or less liquid surplus (£90,926, including
.stocks) was £4248 lighter than at the pre-
vious balance. Stocks, down £5389, are in
at valuation, and the current year’s profit
partly depends upon the figure at which they
were written—they figured at cost at the
previous balance. On fixed assets £8740 was
spent and £7157 written off.
The scrip has a fairly steady market
around 275. 9d. After allowing for the final
div. (Is. 3d.), the return at that price is
7.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis; each variation
of 1 p.c. on that rate would affect the return
by f p.c. The backing amounts to 19s. 6d.
per share in net tangibles.
Queensland Cement and Lime Co.
Net , Dividends N To Re-
July, Profit. / —Pref. Old. Total, serves. Deficit.
£ £ - £ £
1927.. 20,451 8% 6% 5% = 15,421 5,030 5,349
Reserves.
1928.. 29,885 10 „ 8 „ 8 „ „ 20,502 9,385 4,034
1929.. 35,882 10 „ 8 „ 8 „ „ 20,502 15,380 19,414
-This co. was formed in 1914 to put up
cement works at Darra, near Brisbane. But
the war interfered and productio’n did not
begin until 1918. Meanwhile estimates got
askew, plant cost more than was expected,
and the board had to lean heavily on its
bankers. There was insufficient, business
offering to keep the plant fully employed, and
at July 31, 1920, two years’ losses and the
preliminary exes, had piled up the deficit to
£53,228, and the overdraft had mounted to
£92,341. Thereafter balances were struck
on the right side of the ledger, and the prefs.
got their first div. in 1922. But four years
later there was still £47,424 of arrears
coming to them; this was wiped out by the
issue of £45,546 of 6 p.c. bonus scrip—the
other £lB7B was paid in cash. Thus paid
capital advanced to £245,061, at which figure
it still stands.
The co. is in the fortunate position of being
the only cement manufacturer of importance
in Queensland, and, with a view to main-
taining its grip upon the trade, has kept
the capacity of the plant mostly ahead of
demand. During the last three years sales
have stepped along briskly, due partly to a
general increase in the use of cement and
partly to the new market opened up at Mt.
Isa. For the 12 months to July 31 the im-
provement in gross profits (£72,389) was
£2528; management charges (£13,620) were
down £4615, and interest (£887) was £1354
lighter. So, after setting aside £12,000 for
depreciation and £lO,OOO for taxation, the
year’s net result sprang £5997, reaching 14.6
p.c. on paid capital as against 12.1 p.c. and
8.3 p.c for the two years before last. The 2
p.c. bonus on all shares handed out in the
previous term was repeated, and then 42. S
p.c. of the year’s net earnings remained in
the business, making the lay-by £19,414. That
does not include the depreciation reserve
(£94,533), some of which may he true profit;
it was equal to 30.8 p.c. of the book value
of plant, etc., at the close of last accounts.
There has been a marked improvement in
the co.’s finances since 1925, as this com-
parison of balance-sheet figures shows :
1925. 1927. 1928. . 1929.
Paid capital. . £199,614 £245,061 £245,061 £245,061
Overdraft .. 56,561 29,963 19,642 1,813
Sundry creditors 22,135 20,118 20,676 11,955
Freehold, etc. 27,768 28,203 28,374 28,605
Plant, etc. .. 271,195 287,109 297,914 306,622
Stocks . . . 23,234 25,584 52,383 50,744
Book debts .. 31,034 39,513 20,048 16,384
Cash, etc. . . 1,714 1,840 1,232 925
Last year’s more profitable trading is reflected
in a reduction of £17,829 in the overdraft,
and £8721 in the amount coming to trade
creditors. The more or less liquid surplus
(£54,285, including stocks) was £20,940
stronger than at the previous balance, the
improvement over the last four years amount-
ing to £76,999. During the year £B7OB was
added to the book value of plant, etc., but
no hint is given as to its condition, and inucli
depends upon that and the figure at which
stocks have been taken into the sheet.
The co.’s recent progress, and the listing
of the shares in Sydney and Melbourne, haw
widened the investment interest in the scrip.
There are 44.878 first cum. 8 p.c. and 182,18.8
second cum. 6 p.c. prefs. and only 18,000
ords., all fully paid to £1 each. The prefs.
rank in the order stated, have priority as to
capital, and advance point for point with the
ords. after the latter have had 6 p.c. Last
year’s net profit was nearly 10 times the
minimum requirements for the first prefs.,
after allowing for which the balance was
over three times the minimum requirements
for the seconds. The net tangible backing,
excluding the depreciation reserve, was
£5 17s. lOd. for the firsts, 245. Id. for the
seconds and 41s. 7d. for the ords. The mar-
ket, doubtful of the future, pays 225. 9d.
for the firsts; the return at that figure being
8.7 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis, or 7 p.c. if
the div. drops back to 8 p.c. The seconds
can be had for 19s. and the ords. for 17s. Od.
At those figures the return is 8.4 p.c. and
9.1 p.c. respectively on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
Broken Hill has missed the rain again—
the falls which flooded the Hawkesbury
(N.S.W.) didn’t get back beyond the Dar-
ling. However, though the drought has made
havoc of the surrounding pastoral country,
there is enough water in the Broken Hill
reservoirs to keep the mines going for three
months.
* * * %
Colin Fraser, who recently inspected Han-
lon’s find at Jervois Range, about 200 miles
east-north-east of Alice Springs, says the
discovery has been much over-rated. Early
reports were that a large high-grade silver-
lead-copper lode had been found in an area
of pre-Cambrian rocks, which are the same
age as the rocks that contain the big ore
body at Broken Hill and the copper and
lead lodes of North Queensland. The inspec-
tion disclosed a number of disconnected
lenses of silver-lead-copper ore extending over
a distance of about a mile and a half. The
rocks, which have been indurated and stained
by iron oxides, are splashed here and there
with the green and blue carbonates of cop-
per, thus resembling the iron cap of a
large lode. It was this which misled the
prospectors, who had sunk a few potholes on
some of the lenses. The maximurh width of
ore exposed in these holes was about sft.;
some of them revealed mainly lead and others
mainly oxidised copper ore, the silver con-
tent of both types being relatively high.
The deposit was not considered large enough
for a mining co. to work.
* * * *
J. A. Miller, the Papuan prospector,
writes, telling the “Wild Cat” that the recent
statement of a correspondent that the Mt.
Lawson (New Guinea) field, of which he
(Miller) was the discoverer, is high up in
the main range of Papua is not correct. The
co.s leases are situated in low, undulating
country between the Tauri and Lakekamu
rivers, from both of wffiich access is com-
paratively easy. The distance from the
Tauri mouth is 50 miles up river, followed
by a 15 miles’ walk.
* sN *' #
Placer Development, which already has
interests in the Bulolo goldfield, is think-
ing of setting-m in Central Papua, on the
other side of the island. It has paid l £lOOO
for a three months’ option over the Mt.
Lawson holdings on the new field between
the Tauri and Lakekamu rivers. The price
for any areas taken has been fixed at £lOO
per acre, one-fourth in cash and the balance
in f.p. shares in a working co. to be formed
later. Placer may renew its option for nine
months on paying a further £2500, and for
yet another six months for an additional
£BOOO. Oriomo Exploration’s staff, which is
at present in Papua, has been engaged to
visit the field and make preliminary tests.
* * *
“Papangi” : Old Papuan hands will be in-
terested in the scheme of a Melbourne eo.,
Macpherson’s Reward, to work the Yodda
goldfield. , The co.’s 719 acres have been
tested to average Is. a yard, but this is to
be checked by boring. It is proposed r o
work the area by hydraulic sluicing. The
Yodda was Papua’s richest alluvial field;
from 1900, when the field was proclaimed, up
to the present over £300,000 is known to
have been won from it; and probably a good
deal got away unreported and unrecorded.
But it is years since the field has been
worked, except by an odd fossicker. Only
the shovel and sluice-box were used in the
field’s roaring days, so it is fair to presume
that good values still remain.
The field is easily accessible from Buna
Bay, a good road for native transport having-
been cut along the Sangara Valley as far
back as 1905. This will probably need re-
clearing, but the task should not be difficult.
The only stiff hurdle in the path is the
Kumusi River, a deep, wide and rapid stream
about 50 miles from Buna. A generation
ago a primitive flying-fox arrangement took
native carriers and their loads back and
forth across the river, which has high banks
on both sides. It was originally intended
to use mule or horse-pack transport on the
road, but the expense of feeding the animals
—there was no natural pasture—threatened
to be too much for the profits of those pri-
mitive days, and the idea was dropped.
The capital of the Melbourne co., origi-
nally £lO,OOO in £lO shares, has been in-
creased to £60,000 by the issue of 5000 new
shares. Costs are not expected to exceed
4d. a yard. Also it is expected that a sugar-
growing co. now being formed to operate in
the Sangara Valley will share the expenses
of reconditioning the road.
The Whitworth Co., at Irvinebank (N.Q.),
has been • crushing odd patches of ore from
the upper levels of the Vulcan and from
the Governor Norman. In August it treated
143 tons stone for seven tons black tin,
worth £675. The Vulcan shaft had been
bailed to about 600 ft. when a winding acci-
dent occurred, and as new ropes are wanted
some delay is likely.
* * * *
Westralia has waited long for an up-to-
date electric power scheme. There is a
Government power station at Perth, supply-
ing the' metropolitan area, but coal has to
be hauled 124 miles from Collie. Now a co.
with a capital of £150,000, all contributing
shares, has been formed to erect a station
at Collie with the object of supplying cheap
current to the collieries and south-west dis-
trict, and the scheme should be operating
by June next. The outlook for the new co.
is by no means unpromising.
* * * #
Adelaide did no good with its Enterprise
Co., formed to work certain areas within
the Golden Mile, Kalgoorlie. Consequently
a new co., capital £30,000,- has been formed
to carry on. The volume of ore exposed in
mine workings is satisfactory, but the grade
is low. Still improvement is looked for with
the extension of workings.
* * * *
“Spare Towkay” : In spite of the yowls of
the pessimists, the tin-dredging situation in
Malaya is far from gone to the pack.
Some of the cos. are sick, of course, but
for many well-managed concerns there are
good profits with tin at £2OO London. The
recent sharp drop in the price of the metal
(last week-end spot was at £lB4 17s. 6d.,
or over £2O below the September average) is
believed to be due largely to speculators’
manipulations. Dredge production is cer-
tainly increasing; but consumption has
steadily risen, too. Also, more and more
Chinese shows are dropping out. The
Chinese method of working by hand labor
confines them to comparatively shallow
ground, the cost, of doing down to the
deep-lying wash in this fashion being pro-
hibitive. The retirement of the Chinese helps
to offset the increased dredge production, so
that, generally, supplies are not outpacing
the demand. Indeed, there has been a steady
decline in the world’s visible supplies since
April last.
The chief complaint of the mines at the
moment is the method of buying practised by
the smelters, who act as agents for London
and American buyers. The business is done
at a daily meeting of buyers and smelters.
The buyers state their requirements and the
price they are prepared to give. The lowest
price per ton is then rated as the ruling price
for the day, and all tin purchased goes in
at that price, the mines having no say what-
ever. One of the chief reasons advanced for
a Producers’ Association is that it will be
able to stabilise prices by controlling output,
and holding stocks instead of throwing them
on the market as soon as the ore is out of
the dressing-sheds.
Apart from the tin industry, Malaya is
having rather a thin time. Both rubber and
rice offer poor markets.
* * * *
Renong Consolidated and Katu, two of
Burma Malay’s pups, have each announced
an issue to shareholders of 6000 10 p.c. de-
bentures of £.5 each. These will be put out
at par, and are redeemable in four annual
payments of £7500 each. The issue is equal
to four debentures for every 100 shares held,
and has been underwritten at 2J p.c. The
cost of the dredging plants proved far higher
than anticipated, and the new money will
be principally devoted to meeting liabilities
due to this. The parent co. is the creditor
in each instance. Both dredges have been
getting first-class recoveries since they started
some months ago. The stabilisation of the
finances should soon be followed by a
dividend.
*!• v
Tujoh Tin, a subsidiary of Thomo Tin,
was floated three years ago. The , directors
expect that the dredge, ordered in 1928, will
be digging in May next year. At April 30
34 302 shares had been forfeited; sundry
creditors figured at £21,059, and a further
£11,205 for divs. was coming to the pro Is.
The co. has 623 acres containing 60,000.000
c.y. of dirt, bored to go from .781 b. to .991 b.
per yard. The property is in the Kinta
Valley, where the heavy, stiff clay has proved
a stumbling-block to more than one show.
It is claimed that Tujoli’s ground contains
a big percentage of sand admixture, which
should make the digging easier.
When Malim Nawar’s dredge turned turtle
some 18 months ago, the directors decided, to
replace the machine with an electric sluicing
plant to work the ground ahead, which is
exceedingly heavy and peaty. To purchase
the new plant the directors took up £25,000
of debentures, repayable in cash or shares
at their option at the rate of £5OO per
month. The dredge was never able to re-
cover the estimated values, and shareholders
are hoping that the new plant will be more
successful. Malcolm Newman’s estimate on
the boring results w r as .821 b. per yard. The
oxide is said to be very fine, and though
fitted with jiggers the original plant pro-
bably lost a lot of the tin content.
* # * *
Takuapa, which has two dredges running,
has applied for two leases north of the
present holding. The first has an area.of
550,000 c.y., bored and shown to go 8.8 oz.;
the second contains 420,000 c.y. of 7,50 z.
dirt —in all 970,000 yards averaging 8.20 z.
Takuapa’s original area, on which the first
dredge began in 1925, was estimated to
contain 32 million cubic yards ; there areyet
years of digging ahead. It is not stated
whether the new T areas are to be worked as
part of the present holding, or additional
dredges put on. Paid capital is £250,000
in £1 shares.
* * * *
Burma Malay, which started out as a
prospecting and holding concern in 1925.
has given shareholders a good run for their
money. Katu and Renong Consolidated, its
first two floats, early established themselves
as producers on a payable scale. Burma
Malay £1 shares—capital is £loo,ooo—were
at 295. 6d. sellers on the week-end market.
Ivatu’s stock stood at 275. Gd. sellers, and
Renong Consolidated at 235. 3d. —-both £1
shares.


roducts
eel
Forsters
m
...
M •
The Interior can be fitted with
Shelves, Dividers, etc. The
surfaces are finished in olive-
green enamel, oven baked,
ensuring absolute freedom from
rust. These cabinets should
be an acquisition to any room.
FORSTER’S ADJUSTABLE STEEL SHELVING
STRONGER THAN WOOD
HANDSOME AND BUSINESSLIKE
Forster’s Steel Shelving is proving ideal equipment in
Factories, Wholesale and Retail Stores,
Motor Supply Houses, Banks, Libraries,
Hospitals, Book Shops, Music Shops,
Offices and Strongrooms.
Forster’s Adjustable Steel Shelving is adaptable to the storage of any line of business,
and will last indefinitely. Suggestions, drawings, quotations on request.
Seven parts make endless combinations to suit present and future needs as storage
alters or space is changed. It can be moved as easily as other furniture and be
adjusted as required. We keep a wide range of sizes in stock.
Saves space, time, loss from fires, pests, taint.
- !
■ ;
c
jig
F orster’s
MARY ANN
edsteads Ltd
STREET, ULTIMO, SYDNEY.
’Phone: M 4247 (3 lines).
I•'
m
fcSSE
\
i f A*
§ i«r
h
:• -
Perhaps you think of a pilot as sitting with nerves of steel tensely concentrated. Actually,
controlling a Moth is easier on the nerves and more comfortable to the body than driving
a car. Discovering this, men and women all over the world are buying de Havilland
Moths to save time, to save money, to fill life with greater pleasure and put more
convenience into business. *
A de Havilland Moth costs about the same as a medium-priced car to buy, run and maintain,
and only needs skilled attention at remote intervals during its long life. It is “a general
utility safe vehicle”—the only light plane backed by a Commonwealth-wide Servicing
Organisation.
If you have an inkling that you may sooner or later own a small ’plane, write for the new
de Havilland booklet dealing with private flying. It will be sent free on request to
station-owners, business and professional men and women, members or prospective
members of Aero Clubs, and other interested inquirers.
GIPSY MOTH WITH
WINGS FOLDED.
GIPSY MOTH
2-seater, with dual control, and with steel body specially
constructed for Australian conditions.
EASY HANDLING . No hangar is neces-
sary. One person can handle the machine on the
ground alone and take off alone. Span with wings
folded, 9ft. lOin. Span with wings open, 30ft.
Length, 23ft. llin. ; height, Bft. 9iin.
ENGINE. E>e Havilland “Gipsy,” 85-100-
h.p. ; petrol consumption (ordinary motor spirit),
about 20 m.p.g. ; oil consumption (ordinary motor
oil), 1000-1500 m.p.g.
SPEED. Cruising speed 80-90 m.p.h., top
speed over 100 m.p.h. (Holder of World’s Speed
Record for 2-seater light aeroplanes, 119.8 m.p.h.)
GET-OFF and LANDING. —Run of So-
il 0 yards on taking off. Run of 100-130 yards on
landing.. Any small level piece of ground is a
suitable Moth landing place.
RANGE. —With normal tankage, 300 miles
without refuelling. Additional tankage can be
fitted.
PRICE, £825. —Ready to fly away from any
capital city aerodrome, with full equipment,
registration and Government Certificate of Air-
worthiness.
registered
trade MAR K
OH
l>l£ HAVILLAND
MOTH'
All awards in the Sydney-Perth Air Race were
secured by de Havilland machines —one by a
DH9, and the remaining nine by de Havilland
GIPSY MOTHS.
THE DE HAVILLAND AIRCRAFT PTY., LTD.,
WHITEMAN STREET, SOUTH MELBOURNE, 5.C.5.
Dealers: Queensland and Northern Territory Aerial Services, Ltd.,
Eagle Farm Aerodrome, BRISBANE, Queensland, and LONGREACH,
Queensland. Macßobertson Miller Aviation Co., Ltd., 37 Angas Street,
ADELAIDE, S.A. Lee and Chisholm Bros. Motors, Campbell Street,
SWAN HILL, Victoria. Matthews Aviation Pty., Ltd., Box No. 1860,
G.P.0., MELBOURNE, Victoria. (Samson Cl^rk)


'//■
(my,
•;.V
n
//A
Jj
m
;
;
m
y
s';
38$
35
#
mm l
Va
3$
m
vm
y.
Wf
ft
\\*
B
H
-
U
;
)l
m
%
m
Li
m
N:
N
N
x
X
X
S 3?
S' 4
Y 7
□
n
A
m
■*:
1
H
m
* I
mm
jmm
m
* *i
an
m
:
msmm
iMi
iissip
Slip*"
m
WBT'l
m mg
,~~:iMu
/ m
«
—A,
In all the world there is no Summer holiday-land can
compare with New Zealand for its scenic glory, its
wonderful variety of things to see and things to do.
You never have a wasted hour.
Along with its perfect Summer-time climate, New
Zealand offers you alpine scenery utterly beyond
compare, snow-clad peaks and sunshine which fills
your heart. Glittering lakes and fiordlands like jewels
in vivid green bush settings. Ihe thermal marvels of
Rotorua.
Other people take half a year and travel thousands of
miles to see New Zealand’s marvels and count their
time well spent. You are only a few days away.
Plan now for the holiday that will be the pleasantest
memory of your life.
Write to the New Zealand Government Tourist
Department for full information. If necessary a repre-
sentative will call on you.
MELBOURNE: Mr. H. J. Manson, Dominion Chambers, S 9
William Street.
SYDNEY: Mr. W. R. Blow, London Bank Chambers, 20 Martin
Place.
BRISBANE: Mr. T. G. Dewar, King House, Queen Street.
ADELAIDE: Mr. Victor H. Ryan, Director of South Australia
Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
PERTH: Messrs. U. S. McClintock and Co., Queen’s Buildings.
285 Murray Street.


Startling Innovations at
min
Dancing till 1 a.m.
EVENING DRESS OPTIONAL.
A La Carte Service.
Minimum Charge 7/6.
Afternoon and Evening
Mr. Ernest C. Rolls’s New York
Cabaret Revue.
Popular Cabaret Teas
Monday to Friday 2/6
Saturday . 4/-
’Phone M 4131 for your reservation.
VICHY
3
&
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport,
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled —Insist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
PEAPES
clothe men AND their sons.
A new and complete Cata-
logue of men’s and boys’ wear
illustrated by photographs of
actual '-oods on living models
has just been issued by
PEAPES.
A copy will be posted
promptly on request.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“Murkah”: After reading the story of the
circus performer who propelled nails into
hardwood with his teeth, I considered some
facts. Astonishing though it sounds, an
ordinary claw-hammer in the hand of an
average man pounds the nail with an
emphasis of two tons. To drive a three-
inch nail into Australian hardwood requires
at least three such smashes; often the timber
resists so stoutly that the nail bends. It
is also claimed that the circus gentleman,
after the nail had been driven right to its
head, extracted it with his teeth. Going
about it in the ordinary way, despite the
immense leverage of the hammer, it is
almost impossible to withdraw a nail from
hardwood. At Wollongong (N.S.W.) a
machine for testing the tensile strength of
wire was hooked on to a nail that had been
driven into a hardwood stud. When the
gauge was nearing the ton mark the nail
snapped. All of which goes to show that
TOO GOOD TO BE TRUE.
VISITOR : “Remember, dear friend, ‘stone walls do not a prison
make, nor iron bars a cage’!”
LIFER: “’Struth! D’yer mean to tell me they’ve ’ad me bluffed
all these years?”
the chap who drove and drew nails with his
dentistry was well worth the price of
admission.
* sH * =1:
“Claude W.”: Situated in the Indian
Ocean a few miles north of Mauritius lies
.Tuan-da-nova, the “island of dogs.” Not a
human being lives on it, only dogs. The
island, which is of coral formation, 21
miles long and half a mile wide, is covered
with cocoanut and other palms. There
turtles abound, and fish and sea-fowl are in
great plenty. Very few ships ever sight
the place nowadays, but in tbe days of sail-
ing-ships many a boat called at Juan-da-
no.va for water, fruit and turtles. Some-
times a dog was lost on shore, or left pur-
posely, and thus abandoned they soon
found where the turtle buried her eggs and
learned to catch sea-birds. The family grew
each year, and to-day they are purest mon-
grels. All have lost one of the most dis-
tinctive features of their race. They have
forgotten how to bark. Sailors who have
touched the island speak of them as dumb
dogs, a deep growl being the loudest sound
any can make. Another singular feature is
that they drink salt water without suffering
any ill-effects.
* * * *
“Gouger”: Raine islet, on the lonely
Barrier, is a glorified fowl-house, as you
can smell if beating up to it against the
wind. AVith a boisterous afternoon outside,
it is a desolate little inferno. The
huge rollers from the Pacific break
against the Great Barrier in one
unceasing thunder, striving all
through the night to tear the very
reef from its foundations. At sun-
down the sky is overcast in long
hurrying ribbons of black. It is
birds in millions coming in to roost.
What a fearful row! Should a
man try to walk across the islet
centre, the birds arise like clouds
of flies, screeching and squawling
in hysterical rage and butting
against the intruder m masses only
shoulder high. The feathered furies
in the majority are gannets, boo-
bies, black and white terns and a
hectic lot of frigate birds —pirates
of the air. Their nests are count-
less. The majority simply lay
their eggs on the sand or dead
coral, yet every bird knows exactly
where to look for its own parti-
cular treasure among the million others
dotted around.
* :1c * *
“Machete”: There have been several in-
stances in N.S.W. of late of birds attacking
human beings. In one recent case, near
Sydney, a boy was viciously pecked about the
legs by a wild magpie, and at Windsor a
crow damaged another youngster’s face. Both
birds were shot out of hand, and it does not
seem to have occurred to the avengers that
their action entailed the death by slow starva-
tion of a brood of young birds. Instances of
crows attacking people venturing too near
their nests in the spring are not common in
the writer’s experience, but the magpie and
the butcher-bird are always ready to ward
off a supposed intruder. The writer lias had
his hat knocked off by a pair of kookas
while riding by a nesting trbe, with serious
effects on the nerves of his young mount, and
a subsequent long walk home. Of course the
hapless kids in the instances quoted had to be
rescued, but that could have been done with-
out murdering the supporter of a large*
famil y* * *
“Arikiwai”: I left school to jackeroo on
a hiah-country sheep station alongside the
Southern Alps (MX.). Snow losses aver-
aged about 5 per
cent, of the flock
in an ordinary sea-
son, and the' keas•
cleaned up a simi-
lar percentage an-
nually, consequent-
ly there were the
bleached remains of
thousands of jum-
huck’s scattered
over the run. The
boss, one of the
old brigade, sold
out on a walk-out-
walk-in basis, and
the firm negotiat-
ing the deal wrote
asking , for details
of the live and
dead stock on the
place. The boss
scratched his head
as he passed the
missive over to me.
“When do you
start mustering?”
I queried. “Oh,
damn the muster-
ing, that’s easy,”
said he; “it’s the
dead stock that’s
worrying me. How
are we going to
get a tally? Why,
some of those
blanky bones have been lying- there for the
last 40 years!”
* * * *
“Wang” “Did I ever tell yer about my
dog Jack that I used to play poker with?”
asked Larry the Liar. “He got so he could
tell th’ kings from th’ queens an’ Jacks, an’
he soon learnt that the ace wus th’ highest.
Well, one evenin’ a hard-faced lookin'
swaggie comes and I lets him camp in my
hut fer th’ night. After tea I gets th
cards out an’ asks him if he’d like a game
of poker. He drags out a roll of notes an’
off we starts. We plays fer an hour or so,
neither of us much ahead of th’ other. Then
we decides on a final hand, five bob rises.
He deals, an’ I gets three aces an’ a pair
of queens. I bets an’ he raises it. I bets
agen an’ he raises agen. We keeps at it till
there’s near a fiver in tli’ kitty. Jack’s
DROVERS’ TALES.
BANDICOOT BILL (telling the tourist about his droving exploits ): “Longest trip I ever
done was when I shifted a mob to South Afriky.”
INCRESULOUS JOHNNIE: “How d’you get ’em across —swim the Indian Ocean, heigh?”
BANDICOOT BILL “No — took ’em round be the Sooez Canal.”
sittin’ on th’ end of tli’ table watchin’ us.
After a while he jumps down, an’ a minute
or so later I feels somethin’ rubbin’ at me
leg, an’ looks down ter see Jack there with
th ? ace of spades in his mouth. I slips one
of me queens outer sight an’ snaps up th’
ace. When I tables me four aces the bloke
tosses four kings disgusted like on th’ table.
Ole Jack gives a bark and jumps up on th
table an’ sorter accidental-like flicks one of
my cards orf th’ table with his tail. It’s th’
ace he’d given me. Then I hears him
champin’ at somethin’ under th’ table. I
reaches down an’ drags th’ card outer his
mouth. H'e’s chewed it up pretty bad, an
I slips it inter me pocket. The bloke,
growlin’ at his stiff luck, makes hisself a
doss on th’ floor, an’ I goes orf to my bunk.
I takes ' th’ card outer me pocket an’ looks
at it. Then I understands ole Jack’s caper.
It’s th’ ace of spades from a pack with
backs of another color!”
* * * *
“Murkah”: I see mention again of “the
mystery of the fate of the explorer Leich-
hardt,” but I think whatever mystery
there might have been was definitely
cleared up as long ago as 1858. In that
year a party, looking for sheep country,
camped near the junction of the Comet and
Nogoa River (Q.). One day the blacks that
accompanied it went hunting, and fraternised
with the Comet tribe. The latter informed
them that some whites camped thereabouts
years before, and were killed by members
of their tribe, and their sheep and cattle
driven off. They said that some of the cattle
were then in a near-by bend of the Comet.
This proved to be true, and a mule, known
to have been jueichhardt’s property, was seen
with the cattle. The blacks also stated
that one of the murdered party had slept
apart —Leichhardt’s invariable rule. Hear-
ing of these facts, Carl Sclimallfust, a
nephew of the explorer, went to the scene
of the alleged slaughter and questioned the
blacks. He was convinced that his uncle
had met his end there, and applied to Judge
Milford in Brisbane for power to administer
Leichhardt’s estate, which was granted.
The subsequent discovery of “L” trees far
beyond the Nogoa and Comet seemed
to discredit the massacre story. But
these were afterwards proved to have beeu
marked by Landsborough, another explorer.
No trace of a Leichhardt camp later than
the one on the Comet River has ever been
found.
**■ * *
“M. 8.”: One night at Taree (N.S.W.)
as I stepped on to the verandah a slight
movement of a dark object near the roof
attracted my attention. Getting a candle
I discovered a large, furry, buff-clolored
spider at work binding its prey, a full-grown
swallow. The wing and tail feathers were
already tangled together at the tips and the
spider was making swift darts at the breast
feathers, each time weaving another thread
to bind its victim. The flare of the candle
alarmed the spider and it dropped to the
ground on a strand apparently as thick as
the candle wick. It was composed of
many threads. The spider was quickly
dispatched, and taking the bird inside I
attempted to wash off the web, but it was so
sticky that eventually I found it necessary
to clip off the tips of the feathers to set the
little prisoner free.
* * * *
“Billy See”: The so-called “dry lakes” of
Central and West Australia were never lakes.
They are the last vestiges of the bays of a
vast inland sea which in ancient times cov-
ered a large portion of our continent. Origi-
nally the s.-w. of Westralia stood 2000 ft.
higher than at present, as is proved by the
discovery of beach shells in artesian bores
around Perth. A subsidence took place
which allowed the sea to enter and fill an
enormous valley, where now are Esperance
and Norseman and Lakes Dundas, Cbwan
and Lefroy. A rise which followed pushed
away a large portion of the famous Golden
Mile of Boulder, as shown by the abrupt
termination of the lodes in the.lvanhoe and
Horseshoe mines.
(Continued on page 25.)
NEVER AGAIN!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Do you remember the miles we marched
On that far-off morn vtfhen the great sun
rose ,
O’er rambling roads where the great trees
arched, , _
And winding ways where the vagrant goes l
But youth’s fierce fires too swiftly burn ;
The sands of pleasure too swiftly run.
Do you remember our sad return
When the pale stars told that the day was
done?
You can remember the morn that passed—
Its golden memories linger yet:
And they shall linger while life shall last.
But harder still it is to forget
How we came back as the great day died,
Seeking the things we should no more
know —
We poor fools who came back and tried
To warm our hearts at the afterglow.
Never again to a beating drum
Shall we go marching ’neath golden skies.
There is no warmth that can overcome
The chill that grips when illusion dies.
Heel and toe we shall march awhile;
Highway and byway we yet shall tread ;
But steeper and harder shall grow the miles
That lead from the place where our dreams
lie dead.
Gone is the courage and gone the zest;
Never again shall we know or see
The glamor, the glory and all the rest
The years have taken from you and me.
We shall go living through empty days ;
Hill and valley we may explore,
But a shadow lies on the winding ways,
And that radiant morning shall come no
more.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


T
>
X
Efts
a
i
8
min mil!
E
rf
:
i
in
(\
r r
2:
"M
Ml
1 I
During the past twelve
months 81,065 D e Soto
Sixes were produced at the
Factory—breaking all exist-
ing records for any first-year
car in the entire history of the
motor-car industry.
It was not surprising that a
car so handsome, so com-
fortable and responsive—
and so safe and easy to drive
—should find a ready mar-
ket. But it is significant that
even such a car as this, in
the first year of its existence,
should set a new sales record
for the entire industry.
The answer must lie in wide-
spread public conviction that
the genius and resources of
Chrysler Mo tors confer
upon D e Soto Six certain
excellent qualities that are
unmatched by any car of
comparable price.
A demonstration of the De
Soto will enable you to con-
firm for yourself the popular
judgment that has made the
De Soto Six a record-
breaker in its first year.
De Soto Six
CHRYSLER MOTORS PRODUCT
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS
New South
Victoria . .
Queensland
Wales Grenville Motors, Ltd., Sydney
. . . Automobiles Proprietary, Ltd., Melbourne
Stradbroke Motors, Ltd., Brisbane
South Australia . .
Western Australia
New Zealand . . . .
. . . . Dominion Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
Wentworth Motors, Ltd., Perth
New Zealand Motors, Ltd., Wellington
Metro Motors Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
T asmania


■
has
The
Rabbit
may have good cause for
dejection owing to the
label he sees. But the
Skin
Owner
a different viewpoint. He wants top values for his
consignments. He knows that the use of a Winch-
combe Carson label results in the realisation of that
objective. For highest market prices
CONSIGN RABBIT, FOX AND OTHER SKINS TO
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
Winchcombe House, or 99-101 Eagle St.,
Bridge St., Sydney, Brisbane.
m
m
JHE GREYS
SIZEnTWO
SILK CUT VIRGINIA
ORAP
LONDON
EYS
1(5) for «sdl. CIGARETTES 2® for JL/&
They Satisfy
because they are made from 100
per cent, pure Virginia tobacco,
thoroughly matured. “Greys
have a reputation they cannot
afford to lose; they are therefore
consistent in their perfect quality.
“Greys” protect your palate and
leave no after taste. Let your
next smoke be a 4 GREYS.
Of course you
know “Greys
Heavyweights”
are now 1/- for
10; 2/- for 20.
BEFORE tk SNOW
GOES -
GOTO i A
(Hr 5
i
4 ■ 3
L ;•
fo GOVT TOURIST BUREAU
QUEENS WALK-MELBOURNE
oo UAPTIU PLACE- SYDWEY
WILL GLADLY ARRANGE ALL DETAILS
“Bow-wow”: Passing the Sailors’ Home
in Sydney, I saw one of the lounging tars
bowl a penny down the street. Instantly a
dog rushed out, retrieved the coin and
bolted across the road and into a lolly-shop.
Soon he came out, licking his chops. Another
penny was thrown down and when the dog
made a bee-line for the shop again, I
followed. He stood before the counter watch-
ing every movement as the shopman un-
wrapped a penny cake of chocolate. Only
when the sweet was held out did he surrender
the penny. The chocolate disappeared with
a gulp and the dog loped back, to the dis-
tributor of largesse and waited for more.
“Boronia” : It’s a hush saying that a man
is “tough enough to sleep on a wire fence,”
but few can boast that they have actually
performed this feat. I know a man who
claims to have done it. He was riding across
country from Tammin to Quelagetting
(W.A.), and while traversing a large expanse
of plains, on which lay several inches of
water, his horse became sick and knocked
up. It was pitch dark, and there was no
possibility of finding a dry spot on which
to camp. Selecting his strongest rug, he
fastened the two sides together over the
HAPPY DREAMS.
CUTHBERT: “Wot would yer do if it rained beer, ’Orace?”
’ORACE: “Cripes, I’d go to sleep with me mouth open.”
top wire of a fence. Throwing his other
rug over the top of this, he crawled into his
tube-like bed and spent the night there. He
says he slept well enough, but that next
morning he felt as stiff as a poker reared
on starch.
“Hayband” : An earthquake couldn’t have
caused more damage than was inflicted by
a giant tree that once fell in Beech Forest
(Vic.). With a half-dozen tons of earth caught
in the roots it came crashing down the steep
slope above McDevitt railway siding. Taken
broadside by the 40-ton trunk, the station
buildings were simply obliterated. An un-
fortunate team of bullocks looked as if
a 15in. shell had burst among them. One
was hung in its own yoke, and all were
killed. About 80 yards of rails were torn
from their bed and twisted beyond repair
and carried down into the guily. In 30
seconds two acres of country were cleared
of every sapling and bush. There was no
train south from Colac for over a week.
* * * *
“Goanna” : There is a “laughing lizard” in
Northern Australia whose usefulness does
not seem to be appreciated in this country,
but no Asiatic household that I know —
Malay States, Siam, Borneo and Burma —
could exist without them. There we call
them the che-cha, this being an attempt
to describe the noise they make. They are
absolutely essential to keep down the myriads
of moths, mosquitoes and multi-colored flies
which otherwise would render life unbear-
able in the evening. The only drawback is
that the che-clia’s footing on the calico ceil-
ing is most insecure, and when the family
snake (kept in the roof to kill rats) makes
a dive across it, the commotion of his pas-
sage knocks them off and they fall into the
butter, down one’s back or into the soup.
Often in the fall they break in two, and
both ends wriggle off the table —to become
two new lizards, so the natives say. Many
a gallant rescue of a frightened che-cha from
down the back of a low-cut evening-gown has
been my good fortune in far Malaya.
»]; jfc * ❖
“F.S.G.”: The fame of Tasmanian wild
flowers has spread to the Old Dart, which
has sent H. F. Comber on a collecting
expedition. He is acting as the dual repre-
sentative of an English syndicate that in-
cludes a Rothschild and other big pots, and
the horticultural societies of Edinburgh and
Kcw. His object is to obtain the seeds of
native plants and shrubs likely to withstand
the rigors of the British climate. He will
remain in Tasmania six or seven months,
studying the plants throughout the summer
and making his selection of seeds in the
autumn. Comber has had recent experience
of this sort of selection in the Andes.
... * * *
“Up Top”: Thursday Island —a woody
spot set amongst blue waterways, two toy
forts upon two grassy hills, the residency
below; palms on the beach and a little town-
ship. Attractive bungalows nestle by the
neat hospital. Alongside is ragged China-
town. Then comes disreputable “Yokohama,
with Japs efficiently building luggers to sail
Australian waters in search of Australian
pearl-shell. Walking the tree-lined street
a sprinkling of whites, coolly dressed. A few
pretty white girls, as Pice as their southern
sisters. Chinamen leaning against their store
doors, dressed in singlet and breeks. Sharp-
eyed Japs in flannels and bare feet. Broad-
chested Island boys. A cow and 20 goats
grazing near a horse. A fowl complacently
scratching in the street. A Rotomali man
ambling down the footpath with strips of
turtle meat dangling across his shoulders,
Papuans wearing a smile and a lava-lava,
grinning abos., shrewd little Malays, in-
IN THE MALLEE COUNTRY.
BARBER (to Billjim, whom he is about to shave ): “How’ll yer ’ave it, Bill—stumped or
grubbed?”
triguing China girls, buxom Island lassies,
a smart-looking missionary, the tall doctor in
a hurry, a policeman and a soldier. A fleet
of luggers in the bay, a rattling of winches
as the wharfies load pearl into the Taiping.
The pilot-launch chugging through the cur-
rent around Hospital Point. Jack McNulty
yarning to Tommy Farquhar, the pearl-king.
Rugged hills of Prince of Wales Island across
the waterway. Blue sky and a sou’-east
breeze.
“Tidapa”: His wives were poking
around the Amboina reefs in search
of cuttlefish and the Malay was
sitting alone on the warm sand of
the beach in the shade of the palm
trees, gazing out over the surf.
He decided to have a smoke. Glanc-
ing around he selected a dry stick,
split it, and rubbing one part on
the other leisurely until a groove
had been formed and a small pile
of powdered wood had collected,
he suddenly began moving one stick
rapidly backwards and forwards in
the groove until the heat thus
generated started the powdered
wood smoking and glowing. Twist-
ing a small bundle of banana
leaves he set these on fire by dump-
ing the glowing pile of wood
powder upon it. Then, searching
among the debris at his side, he
picked out a long piece of dry
banana leaf and split it into proper
width. Next he tore it off and laid
it on his knee. Reaching into the
tattered sarong around his waist,
he pulled out a roll of tobacco leaf,
selected a small amount, replaced
the balance and then rolled the
tobacco in the leaf, fashioning a
cigarette six inches long. Picking
up one of the glowing twigs he was
soon enjoying a smoke. All this
was done without moving from his
seated position and quite oblivious of the
tuan who was close at hand watching the
whole performance.
* * * *
“Sea Nomad”: On the verandah of the
old house on Massig Island there still lies
the “magic stone” of old Ned Moseby. His
sons keep it as a much-prized relic. When
Moseby took over the island he was a
lone man beset by tribes of bloodthirsty
savages. Experienced in native superstitions,
he made the most of his knowledge and his
great physical strength. The “magic stone”
was his instrument for calling up the winds.
The natives knew that should they annoy
him he was liable to retire to his magic
stone and mumble a few incantations. Then
the next time the canoes were at sea a
cyclone would wipe them out. Moseby, deeply
learned in sea-lore, used to stimulate this
superstition by waiting for the symptoms of
a certain blow, and predicting.it. H'is word
was never doubted after one or two ex-
periences. He was accepted as the man who
could call up weeks of storm so that the
tiny island was lashed day and night by
thunderous seas, making fishing impossible.
He was credited with being able to protect
Massig too, and habitants of hostile islands
believed that should they canoe across for
heads, the white chief would call up a wind
that would wreck every canoe. Although
Moseby never told them so, the natives be-
lieved that every wreck, whether “white
man big fella canoe” or just a native craft,
was engineered by the magic stone. By such
means and his own striking personality did
Moseby keep his head safe while retaining
chieftainship, and rearing a particularly virile
family. To this day no native dares to touch
Moseby’s “magic stone.” #
“H.P.”: Coleraine (Vic.) is excited about
the extraordinary growth of fish in its reser-
voir. When the big dam was completed,
about three years ago, the local angling
society stocked the water with rainbow-
trout fry. Now 81b. fish are being caught,
and one that scaled was found stranded
on the shores of the 150-acre sheet of water.
The reservoir is on new ground, with no
permanent creeks emptying therein, so that
the fish are certainly those that were put in.
There can be no natural fish food in this
water, and trout experts reckon that in
the circumstances the rate of growth is
abnormal.
* * * *
“.Tim Carcw”: “Pfella’s” nor’-western
tracker (B. 28/8/’29) who could tell what
was burning miles away from the smoke
reminds me of a Binglii who was working
on a western N.S.W. station at the same
time as I was. We were there during a
severe drought, and whenever we arrived
within “earshot” of a dead animal the Binghi
could at once say what it was, sometimes
minutes before he could see it. His sense
of smell told him at once whether we were
approaching a dead sheep, bullock, kangaroo,
emu, goat, rabbit or bird. I had hundreds
of opportunities of seeing how keen this
sense of smell was, and I never knew him
make a mistake.
“Senex” : Cook’s description of a kangaroo
(B. 11/9/’29) calls to mind the first mention
of marsupials by Australian explorers. In
1629 the Dutch ship Batavia, under Cap-
tain Pelsart, was wrecked on the Westralian
coast at the Abrolhos reefs. Pelsart mentions
that there was on the islands “a species of
cat, which are very strange creatures ; they
are about the size of a hare, their head
resembling the head of a civet-cat.; the
forepaws are very short, about the length of
a finger. Its hind legs are upward of half
an ell, and it walks on these alone.” The
late Prof. Wood believed that this is the
first mention of the discovery of “the tribe
of kangaroo.”
THE FALLOW NAMED “GOOD-DAY.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Maybe you’ll meet ’im, Dig.,’’ said Joe,
“The fellow named ‘Good-day’;
A kindly sorter cove you’d know
A ’arf a mile away,
you’ll see ’im stridin’ down the road,
’ls shoulders braced an’ straight,
Totin’ an extra ’eavy load
An’ ’elpin’ on a mate.
“When I was trav’llin’ for a crust,
Dog-tired an’ nearly beat,
I twigs ’im loomin’ through the dust
That goes with Mallee ’eat.
‘Good-day,’ I says. ‘Ow’s things with you?’
‘E says ‘Aw, great,’ an’ grins.
An’ then I saw ’is legs were through
’ls trousers at the shins.
“I bit ’im for a pipe o’ weed.
‘lt’s all I’ve got,’ ’e said,
‘But I’ve just ’ad a smoke an’ feed;
There’s plenty on ahead.’
We pads together for a while,
‘Where to?’ I asks, an’ ’e
Jist answers, ‘Chasin’ Fortune’s smile
An’ any job I see.’
“We parted soon, an’ on ’e went
Singin’ a snatch o’ song;
An’ somehow I was more content
To ’ump my swag along.
So if you meet ’im, Dig.,” said Joe,
“You’ll cotton right away.
’ls name I never got to know;
’E’U answer to ‘Good-day.’ ”
VICTORIA,
P. T. FINDLAY.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service, is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Ex-soldier, single, exp. sheep and station work
Western N.S.W. and Vic., wants job station, any-
where.—2B7o.
Young man (20), 41 years’ banking exp. Healthy,
total abstainer, wants job in Islands. Refs. —2894.
Young man (19), strong, healthy, native of
Gympie, wants open-air job anywhere in Q’land.
—2862.
Graduate Sydney Uni. will coach for Intermediate,
Leaving Certificate or Matric. Minimum fees, indi-
vidual attention home or city office.—293o.
By governess, position during Christmas vacation,
as companion help or care of children. Sydney or
Blue Mountain districts preferred.—294o.
Student (23), Sydney, able to do hard work,
wants position in country from Nov. to March. Used
to horses, cows and sheep.—2924.
Sheep-station overseer wanted S.Q’land, Protestant,
single; 10,000 sheep. Commencement salary £4.
Good horseman. State age and experience.—2954.
Widow (37), capable housekeeper, respectable and
conscientious, wants position in superior country hotel.
—2843.
Young Englishman (27), educated, total abstainer,
want:] job in private house, boarding-house, hotel or
college, an houseman or general useful. Country
(N.S.W.) preferred.—2Bs3.
Man (26), nine years’ exp., wants job anywhere,
waiter, valet or butler. Refs. —2872.
Married couple, one child (2), want position any-
where. Husband ex-seafarer, willing to tackle any-
thing. Wife good cook and worker. —2822.
Partner for W.A. pastoral lease, 200,000 acres.
Plenty of water; rainfall 84 inches; five wells; 200
head cattle; homestead. £l5OO required for half-
interest with view to putting on sheep.—294s.
To buy Australian and general studbooks; also
Bruce Lowe figure system. State price.—2890.
To buy second-hand modern plays and books on
the theatre.—2Bs9.
To buy second-hand books on memory training.
—2812.
To buy “A Jackeroo in Georgia” and “A Curate
in Bohemia.”-—2820.
To buy original editions of Louis Becke’s novels;
“Lonely Lands” ; “My Tropic Isle” and “Last Leaves
from Dunk Island” ; “My Brilliant Career” and
Lome Hand, vol. 9.—2942.
To buy buttons, badges, shoulder titles and belt
buckles of the army, navy, air and police forces of
all countries. —2931.
To buy or exchange Gissing’s “Eve’s Ransom” and
‘‘Nether World.” —2709.
To correspond with young married couple in south-
east N.S.W., Western District or north-east Vic.,
view reciprocal summer holiday in Tasmania for
winter of 1930 on mainland. Refs. —2824.
Whereabouts of Joe Keating, late postmaster at
Gilgandra (N.S.W.). —2861.
Whereabouts of Herbert C. Bissmire, late of High
Wycombe, England; also of Robert A. Hutchinson,
late of Vancouver, who was at Redcliffs, Mildura, in
1921.—2839.
• Whereabouts of Rudolph England, who came to
Australia in 1921 or 1922 from Shrewsbury.—2B2l.
Whereabouts of A. Bell, drover, last heard of in
Charters Towers (Q’land). Left home in 1916 and
may have gone to the war. —2937.
To hear from persons able to furnish exact date
of birth or helpful evidence concerning birth of
Frank Harrigan McDonnell, son of Patrick and
Margaret (nee Harrigan) McDonnell, bom Coleraine
station, Karrapook, near Hamilton (Vic.), about
1857. Mother died at birth and child lived in
district for 15 years.—272B.
Italian words of “La Paloma” (Yradier) and
“Serenata” (Mascagni).—2B97.
Words of recitation, “When I Get My Bolshevik
Blood Up.” Will pay.—2BBo.
Information Sought.
(1) When can a whole-life insurance
policy be surrendered? (2) What would be
the surrender value of a policy for £lOOO
taken out five years ago and on which the
yearly premium is £25 25.; all premiums paid
to date, and all bonuses cashed? —2736.
(1) Varies with different offices, but
usually, in Australia, after two or three
years. (2) Approximately £5O.
(1) Is a life insurance co. liable for the
full amount of the policy taken out by a
man who commits suicide? (2) Was insur-
ance paid to their solicitor on the lives of
Coulter and Treffene, the executed Wcstra-
lian murderers? Was it assigned, and if
it had not been assigned , icould it have
been paid to their widows? —2801.
(1) Depends on the terms of the policy.
Most offices provide for a period of pro-
bation and will not pay if suicide took place
within a year or 13 months from the date
when policy was effected. An exception is
generally made even in such cases in favor
of a bona fide assignee for value. (2) The
policies were assigned by them to the counsel
who defended them, before the trial, in
order to secure his costs. After the execu-
tion, although the insurance society, the
A.M.P., was under no legal liability, it
decided to pay the full amount to the
assignee on his undertaking to announce in
the press the amount of his costs and to
pay the balance to the families of the
deceased. His costs amounted to £7OO.
Who was Giovanni Fontana, and is there
much of his work exhibited in England or
Australia ? —2840.
He was an English sculptor and water-
colorist of the Italian school. He exhibited
in London from 1852 to 1886. In Liverpool
there is a painting by him of Charles Dickens,
and some of his sculpture is on view in Eng-
land. In the National Callery of JJ.S.W.
are a statue, “La Somnambula,” and a‘relief,
“Patroclus and Achilles,” by him.
(1) Was Easter Island ever totally sub-
merged? (2) Racial character of inhabitants?
—2844.
(1) Not in historical times. (2) They
range in color from sallow white to deep
brown. Some are distinctly Melanesian,
others Polynesian in type. A few Chilians
are employed by a sheep and cattle co.
At what height above the ground and in
what position should a rain-gauge be placed?
—2766.
The receiving surface of the rain-gauge
should be perfectly level and just Ift. above
the level of the ground. The site selected
should be an open one, unobstructed by high
trees or fences, and, as far as possible, level.
Low fences, structures or hedges are an
advantage if at a distance not less than
their height from the gauge.
A farmer delivered wheat to the agent
of a flour-milling co. for storage, under the
usual conditions. Later, the flour-milling
co. went insolvent, the wheat still being
in store. (1) Gould the farmer trans-
fer his wheat to another agent on paying
for storage? (2) Is the farmer treated as
an ordinary creditor? —2791.
(1) If deposited for storage alone and
no other purpose, yes, on payment of sum
due. (2) H'e is not a creditor. He is rn
the position of any other debtor to the co.
until storage is paid.
(1) How is the iceight of tin per cub.
yard of ore calculated? (2) In a Ain. bore
how much tin would there be in a yard of
boring to give lib. per cub. yard? (3) Are
boring results likely to give an accurate
estimate of contents? —2684.
(1) Depends on the nature of the deposit.
One method is by boring; another by dish
sampling. (2) 38 grains. (3) Depends on
the character of the alluvial deposit being
bored, the skill of the operator, and the
number of test holes put down. If the tin
be evenly distributed through the wash, the
tests should give a good approximation of
the value of the amount of tin present, but
if the tin be coarse and irregularly scat-
tered through the wash only approximate
results will be obtained.
(1)' llow are N.B.W. shire valuers
appointed and where can I see the regulations
relating to that position? (2) Has a rate-
payer the right to see documents relating to
past appointments ? —2492.
(1) In shires where the Valuation of
Land Act does not apply, valuers are
appointed subject to and under the powers
given in Clause 14, Schedule 111 of the
Local Govt. Act, 1919; see also Clause 8,
Ordinance 4; also Clause 8, Ordinance 5.
The appointment, as in the case of its ser-
vants generally, is in the hands of the
council. (2) A ratepayer has the right to
peruse the minutes of the meeting at which
the appointment was made. Apart from
this the council may make available such
information in the matter as it deems fit, and
may charge a fee therefor.
Hoic to oxidise a brass- or copper-covered
kerb, and how to make and apply a finishing ,
lacquer for same? —2606.
Potash sulphuret dissolved in hot water;
strength of solution depends on shade
required and time of immersion. After cor-
rect shade is obtained swill off in cold
water, then hot water, to dry off, then
scratch-brush surface with wire brush until
a sheen is upon the surface, relieve if neces-
sary in parts to contrast colors, then lacquer
with any nitro-cellulose or gum lacquer.
(1) Where are applications sent for
employment as junior clerk in N.S.W.
Govt. Savings Bank and Commonwealth
Bank? (2) Conditions of entry to the ser-
vice? (3) Rates of pay? —2679.
(1) Secretary, Govt. Savings Bank of
N.S.W., 48 Martin-place, Sydney. (2)
Applicants' must be under 17 and hold the
Intermediate Certificate. Candidates who
hold the Leaving Certificate are eligible for
appointment until they attain the age of 18.
(3) Appointments are subject to a satisfac-
tory medical examination and a probationary
term of six months. The commencing salary
is £B3 per annum with annual increments.
llow to draw an ellipse, using nails and a
piece of string? —2676.
If a loop of string be laid loosely round
a couple of nails and a pencil run round
the inside of the loop, keeping the string
tight against the nails, a very neat ellipse
can be drawn. To draw an ellipse of any
given dimensions by this method, however, is
a matter for rather complicated calculation.
An architect was commissioned to draw
plans and specification and supervise additions
to a property already built. A tender teas
accepted.' After the foundation had gone in
it teas discovered that the measurements on
the iilans had encroached s in. on the statu-
tory 2ft. division from the alignment, neces-
sitating the pulling doivn of the work already
done. Who is responsible for the error, and
has the owner any redress? —2769.
To determine the onus of liability you have
to consider three points: The sufficiency and
accuracy of the plan submitted to the muni-
cipal council. Did the council pass the plan,
though inaccurate or insufficient? Did the
architect adhere strictly to the plan as
passed? Action to be taken for redress
would depend on the answers to these ques-
tions.
What are the facts about the gathering
of the blacks of Van Diemen’s Land on
Flinders Island ? —2701.
George Augustus Robinson migrated to
Hobart from Britain in 1824, and worked as
a bricklayer and builder. Ardently pious,
he became associated with the Bethel Union,
and came, into contact with the aborigines’,
whose plight excited his active interest.
In 1829 Governor Arthur placed him in
charge of a small aboriginal station on
Bruni Island. Here he studied the native
language and gained an ascendancy over the
refugees under his charge, and among them
picked assistants for the work of rounding
up the tribes. This he accomplished un-
armed and peacefully, and the aborigines
were placed under his charge on Flinders
Island in 1835. He was later appointed
Protector of Aborigines in Vic. In 1849 his
office was abolished, and he returned to Eng-
land to die there in 1866.
In C.Q. there are dead trees whose trunks,
from the around up, are bristling with tufts
of grass that have been placed in grub-holes
by some creature. By what, atid for what
reason? —2ss7.
It is done by wasps of the species CMorion
nigellus, which lay their eggs in old bore-
holes made by beetles and plug them with
grass seeds.
(1) Is there any sale for mica ,in Aus-
tralia? (2) Where is the best market? (3)
What is the value of blocks 16 in. x 18 in.? —-
2650.
(1) Yes, for mica of good quality, in
large sizes. (2) The material is wanted by
all electrical works, and American gramo-
phone makers are asking for supplies. (3)
Submit samples to Mines Department, Bris-
bane, which will advise on quality, which
is the main factor determining price.
Details regarding preparations to be placed
in pneumatic tyres to close up punctures?—
2867.
The stuff consists of flake mica mixed with
water, which is inserted in the tube. Imme-
diately any small object such as a nail pene-
trates through the cover and tube the out-
ward rush of air carries the mica against
the punctured portion of the tube and seals
the hole. It won’t safeguard against big-
cuts and it tends to throw the wheel out
of balance.
Remedy for removing partial scum from a
saddle-hack’s eyes? —2767.
Paint the affected eye daily by means of
a camel hairbrush, until the scum disappears,
with nitrate of silver, sgr. ; distilled water,
loz.
What ration of chaff and grain does a
farm-horse require while ploughing? —2972.
An average ration is 20lb. to 301 b. chaff,
61b. to 101 b. cracked maize. The amount wUI
depend on the size of the horse. It may be
found necessary to add lib. to 21b. bran if
dry conditions prevail.
(1) Is the electric-knife process for re-
moving wool from sheepskins operating suc-
cessfully in any part of Australasia? (2)
What number of average-sized skins can be
dewoolled daily? (3) Is there any detri-
mental effect on wool so removed as compared
with fellmongering? (4) Are the shorn pelts
a better marketing proposition than those
that have gone through the sweating pro-
cess ? —2828.
(1) Not so far as we know. The process
is believed to be still in the experimental
stages. (2) Can’t say, but in any circum-
stances dewoolling would not be accomplished
more speedily than under the present methods.
(3) The commercial value of the wool would
probably be slightly depreciated. (4) Under
present methods (especially by painting) the
quality of the pelt is equally well preserved.
(1) How can a violin be identified as a
genuine Stainer? (2) What should be the
range of dates? (3) Did he make many
violins? (4) Is there any check on the num-
ber and, their whereabouts? (5) What
nationality was Stainer? (6) Where did he
get the wood he used? (7) What colorings
did he use in the varnish? —2814.
(1) It’s a matter for an expert. A. E.
Smith, 68 Hunter-street, Sydney, could give
you an opinion. (2) Stainer violins are
rarely labelled. Jacob Stainer was born i
1621 and died in 1683. (3) and (4) He
made a great many violins, but there’s no
exact record. (5) German. (6) At Gleirach,
in the German Tyrol, from a tree called
“hasplfichte.” (7) Golden yellow to brown,
and, rarely, for the very best violins, rose-
color.
How can I test and correct Avery scales
(B cwt. capacity)? —2B79.
Scales are tested with standard weights.
The N.S.W. Weights and Measures Regu-
lations prescribe the method of such appli-
cation and also the tolerances in error per-
•missible by law. Correction of an error is
a matter for a skilled tradesman.
How to sweeten beer-kegs which have been
allotved to stand without being properly
washed out and have become sour and musty?
—2856.
Burn 11b. flowers of sulphur in each cask
on a flat tin or some other protecting metal
so as to avoid damage, then fill with water,
allow to stand for 24 hours and wash casks
thoroughly. If that does not prove effective
fill the casks with a solution of 1 part forma-
lin in 100 parts water, allow to stand for
two days and then wash casks thoroughly.
(1) Names of quick-growing hardy vines to
suit a dry climate which is very hot in
summer and experiences heavy frosts in
winter, and where obtainable? —2757.
(1) Isabella and lona. It is now too late
to plant vines. These should be planted not
later than June, before the buds begin to
swell.
(1) Has a newsagent in N.S.W. a legal
right to a, monopoly of his trade in his
district? (2) If so how does he secure such
right and at what expense? —27l6.
(1) He has a right conferred on him by
the Paper Board, which controls all news-
agencies throughout the State, and to whom
the transfer of a newsagency has to be re-
ferred for approval. The board protects the
agent against encroachment on his run or
district by any other individual, as the news-
paper offices, which are represented on the
board, will not supply papers to any but
the authorised agent. (2) He must purchase
a business. Prices vary considerably as be-
tween country, city and suburbs. They are
based upon a rate at per thousand papers.
Does Anybody Know?
How to stop a dog from eating eggs?—
2922.
Who made the stone floors on the shores
of Pelican Lagoon, Kangaroo Island (S.A.),
and who was Captain Hart, who used to
visit the island for salt 100 years ago?—
2919.
Brief Answers.
Jay: Yes, reasonably safe. Of course you
can t get into the first line if you want 7 p.c. But
it s close up. .. .A.E.C.: A 16-nim. cinema made by
the Zeiss Co., Australian Films, 251 a Pitt-street,
Sydney. Supplies of the usual type, Herbert
Small Pty., Ltd., 248 Pitt-street, Sydney.
J.G.: Write to Burges and Ryan, 9 Martin-place,
Sydney; or to one of the breweries E.J.F.: Try
any of the following: Mitchell and Co. Pty., Ltd.,
West Footscray; T. Robinson and Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Spotswood; and Schumacher Mill Furnishing Works
Pty., Ltd., Port Melbourne—all Vic K.W.A.S.:
J. H. M. Abbott has never put James Hardy Vaux
into a story under that name, but “The Genteel Young
Man” was inspired by Vaux’s “Memoirs.” For
particulars of Vaux’s career see article in “Australian
Encyclopredia” ... . J.D.: Call on Mr. Quinn,
Horticultural Inspector, Department of Agriculture,
Adelaide, who will advise you personally as to the
project... .Invalid: Write to the Ministry of Pensions,
London. .. .C.J.D.: A full list will be found in
“The Radio Guide for 1929” published by. Amalg-
amated Wireless, Ltd., 47 York-street, Sydney (price,
25.) ... .F.W.H.: £3OO 'was owing on May 15, 1929,
and it will take 44 years and two weeks from that
date to clear off the debt... .N.A.C.: No meaning can
be found for “Teringie.” The nearest to it is
“teering,” an aboriginal name for “red box”
Fencer: Write to your neighbor requiring him to
assist in equal proportions towards the renewal or
repair of the fence. If he neglects to comply with
the notice within six months after its receipt, with-
out reasonable excuse, you may carry out the work
yourself and recover half the cost from him.
. ...W.A.L.: Write to him, c/o The Bulletin, and
we’ll forward the letter G.H.: “Merrawarp”
means “a nesting-place for crows” Blenheim:
Louis Dreyfus and Co., 82 King William-street,
Adelaide, are the agents for the Herzogin Cecilie and
the Beatrice. S.A. Farmers’ Co-op. Union, 36 Frank-
lin-street, Adelaide, is agent for the Grace Harwar.
... .F.8.L.: (1) Depends on work involved. Solicitor
may charge on scale, or on taxed bill of costs. (2)
The agent’s bill of costs for work necessarily done
in town is a charge against the client. (3) Stock
bill of sale and land mortgage are distinct. (4)
Technically the mortgagee could foreclose if probate
were pending when interest fell due, but usually
the beneficiary under the will pays the interest. (5)
Charge depends on nature and length of consultation.
. ...M.W.: A possible solution might be for your
fiance to come to Australia and marry you here;
then endeavor to secure for you, as his wife, a non-
quota or preferential classification by petition lodged
with the Consul. Consult the Consul on this course,
if practicable to your fiance... .J.L.: Write to the
District Naval Officer, Naval Staff Office, Edgecliff,
Sydney... .G.L.S.: “Commercial Management,” by
C. L. Balling, Angus and Robertson, Sydney, 13s. 3d.
. ...C.P.: Before the play could be performed you
would have to obtain the permission of the persons
who held the copyright of the songs, otherwise you
would be laying yourself open to an action under
the Copyright Act.... Nick: No; the Testator’s
Family Maintenance Act (N.S.W.) applies only to
“the widow, husband or children” of a testator..,.
E. 8.: (1) W. H. Paling and Co., Sydney, will put
you in touch with a composer. (2) A houseboat is
a boat with a superstructure like a house, of one
or two storeys. (3) A second-hand one could probably
be picked up by advertising. (4) Can’t under-
stand question. (5) Very doubtful. All the towns
along the route are well provided with those classes
of businesses. .. .G.W.H.: Get in touch with Holder-
Stroud, Ltd., 472 Kent-street; and Grainger Glass
Co., Ltd., 486 Elizabeth-street —both of Sydney. ...
0.W.F.: See “Tomato Culture Under Glass,” N.S.W.
Agricultural Gazette, October, 1929... .G.V.S.: If
you are not prepared to accept the solicitor’s state-
ment, submit your case in writing to the Registrar-
General, Lands Titles Office, Queen’s-square, Sydney.
He may be prepared to give you an estimate of cost.
. ...G.K.: (1) It is defunct when wound-up. (2)
Call a meeting of the members and pass a resolution
winding-up the club and also a resolution as to the
disposal of residue money after all debts and liabili-
ties have been discharged. (3) N 0... .L.P.8.: Submit
full particulars of the case to the Department of
Local Government, Sydney.... Sweet Briar: Your
novel has been received.... F. B.: “The Gentleman
With a Duster,” who wrote “Mirrors of Downing-
street,” was Harold Begbie, well known English
novelist, who died on October 8 last. .. .T.H.: Call
and see the lecturer-in-charge, Sheep and Wool Dept.,
East Sydney Technical College, Darlinghurst, Sydney.
. ...R.T.: Write Home and Territories Dept., Can-
berra, F.C.T J.G.: (1) April 9, 1913, fell on
a Wednesday. (4) No. There was a full moon
on February 27, 1888 W.G.D.: (1) A publican
has the ,same right as any other man to buy a
drink for a friend or a customer who is on his
licensed premises. (2) How he adjusts his book-
keeping in this respect is his own affair... .8.J.L.:
(1) Apply Registrar-General’s Dept., Sydney, and
state date of birth, names of parents (including
mother’s maiden name) and birthplace. Fee of 2s.
6d. must be enclosed with application. (2), (3)
and (4) Apply Registrar-General’s Dept., Melbourne.
. ...J.A.M.: For the year ending June 30, 1927,
Commonwealth taxation amounted to £58,994,809,
and taxation by States to £28,083,784. The Com-
monwealth taxation per head for the same period
wan £9 13s. Id.; States, £4 12s. Id .G.E.S.:
If interest is computed quarterly, the rate of repay-
ment of £l3OO at 8 per cent., £3 a week being
paid off for capital and interest, will be: End of
first year, balance owing, £1248 10s.; second,
£llBB 10s. ; third, £1125 10s.; fourth £lO5B 10s.;
fifth, £984 ; sixth, £905 10s.; seventh, £819:
eighth, £726; ninth, £624; tenth, £515; eleventh,
£396; twelfth, £268 10s.; thirteenth, £l3O. The
remainder will be paid off in 46 weeks... .W.N.M.C.:
(1) Insist on the production of the certificate of
title before the purchase mo.ney is paid. Your
safest course is to employ a solicitor to act for you.
(2) Shire rates and water rate. (3) The Torrens
title offers a cheap and simplified form of transferring
land. It secures to the owner a practically inde-
feasible title. (4) You can obtain an independent
valuation by a professional valuer... .A.W.: (1) Yes.
(2) Send one copy to the Copyright Office, Common-
wealth Bank Chambers, Martin-place, Sydney, and
enclose a registration fee of 5s J.M.D.: The
church of the Holy Trinity, Algiers, contains the
tablet recording the sacking of Baltimore (Ireland)
in 1631 by two Algerine pirate crews who carried
off its inhabitants to slavery... .G.L.: At the present
time and during the summer, trapping for rabbit
skins is not highly profitable owing to the light fur
the skins carry. During last season the best and
largest consignments of skins were secured in the
New England districts of N.S.W. Arrangements
regarding paddocks are a matter of treaty between
landowners and trappers. Some of the former make
no charge. .. .8.F.: There is no employer on King
Island (Bass Strait) in need of a station-hand at
present. An advertisement in the King Island News,
published at Currie, King Island, might help....
(Many others mailed.)


m
<***'* *©*£
IN THE WORLD!
ESTABLISHED 1742.
m
j-
inimmiiiiif
«• .-.jj i. 11'
*■!" ‘ i . l ik/
m
/ •
4^
111
m
22
%
.
09
w
I
ort?r
Real old Scotch whisky with
a rare distinctive flavour. In
growing demand throughout
the world. A man’s drink—
anytime, anywhere.
P%Z
RSE
WHISKY
Sc KEty P .


WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most-up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydney!
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
Sydney Grammar School.
Day and Boarding School for Boys.
Applications for prospectus or interview should be made,
by letter to the Head Master, as early as possible. New term
begins 4th February, 1930.
Special features are the Preparatory Form, for boys of
9 to 12, in its own self-contained building and grounds, and
the New School House, with excellent accommodation for
60 boarders
Early application is desirable.
Headmaster: H. S. DETTMANN, M.A., B.C.L.
Chairman of Trustees: SIR MUNGO MacCALLUM, K.C.M.G, M.A.,
LL.D., D.Litt.
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
gpMltpi
BS
-7- : '
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
THE MAM
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
C[?]PARK & CASNEREAGH STS SYDNEY
MORE PRIZES FOR FARMERS.
In order to encourage farmers to pass
on to others the fruits* of their observa-
tion and experience, “The Bulletin” will
give three prizes for the most helpful
contributions during the six months to
Dec. 31 next.
Points will be awarded for every con-
tribution submitted, if thought worthy and
whether printed or not, and two prizes—
the first of £25 and the second of £10 —
will be given to the winners of most
points.
A special prize of £5 will be given for
'he best individual contribution.
Only contributions that are of practical
value to men on the land are asked for;
literary merit is not taken into account, so
long as the meaning is expressed plainly.
The prizes are in addition to the ordi-
nary payments made for all “Bulletin”
contributions.
♦
WHAT'S BEST TO DO WITH
STUBBLE?
“Alf Alpha” : As humus is such an essen-
tial component of the soil, and as stubble
may be converted into humus, the only thing
to decide, in nine cases out of ten, is the
best means of attaining this objective. You
may certainly turn straw into fodder an-
other way; but you will, in most cases,
turn it into more fodder this way.
Ask your manure merchant to supply f
following mixture: Sulphate of ammonia,
3 parts; ground limestone (S 3 p.c.), 3 parts;
super., 1 part. (If you can spare the time,
buy the materials and mix them yourself in
the barn by throwing them through a rough
iin. mesh screen, placed on the slant. Mix
well.) Suppose it is decided to treat 52
tons of straw annually. Bun the reaper and
binder over the stubble until the required
quantity of straw is obtained, and, as you
harvest, stack the sheaves at convenient
places in the paddock in the form of shallow,
flat stacks. As you stack, treat each straw
layer with the mixture at the rate of 1501 b.
of the mixture per ton of straw, spreading
evenly. For 52 tons of straw, 31 tons of
the ammonia-lime-super, mixture will be
required.
Exposed to the rain the natural cellulose
bacteria of the straw in the flat stacks
quickly set to work in the presence of the
mineral culture, and the stacks are quickly
converted into rotten heaps of artificial farm-
yard manure.
The practice should encourage the utilisa-
tion of straw to increase the humus content
of the soil and conserve fertility at no great
expense.
The rotted straw may be spread at any
convenient time prior to ploughing. It is
best to work on a pre-arranged plan and
treat a given area annually.
the drift-sand problem.
VICTORIA.
“Glenfield”; An additional load is about
to be placed on the overburdened shoulders
of the Mallee cockles in Victoria between
Ouyen and Murrayville. With no mois-
ture in the soil to bind it after three
years of drought, drift-sand has completely
covered fences and made roads impassable,
the mounds of sand being 10ft. high in places.
A council by-law prohibiting fallowing within
a chain of a road-fence has proved quite
ineffectual; paddocks that have not been cul-
tivated at all have drifted as badly as the
fallow. In normal years, the drift can be
reduced to a minimum by leaving a chain
width on the fallows along road-fences, and
sowing the tops of the sandhills in the pad-
docks with oats. But one might just as
well try to prevent mud in a wet year in
Gippsland as to prevent drift in this worst
drought year this Mallee district has known.
The Shire Council, after much discussion
and small performance, has thrown in the
towel and decided to ask the Government
to enact legislation placing upon the settler
the responsibility of keeping the roads clear
of drift along his road boundary—apart from
the injustice, a stupendous if not impossible
task.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
“Lucerne Flea”; There are times when the
younger generation is forced to admit that
the old hands did know something, after all,
and the present unprecedented dry spell in
parts of South Aus. has proved that the fear
in which the old cocldes held drift-sand was
well grounded. Only those who have seen
sandhills vanish in swirling clouds, to block
railways and roads, smother crops, cover up
sheds and fences and fill up dams, can realise
just what drift can do. And at no time
within living memory has drifting been worse
than in this past winter.
The early settlers in the Mallee seldom
cleared the scrub off sandhills, knowing
that, while scrubby sandhills harbor vermin,
represent several acres of land lying unpro-
ductive, and are a source of danger if a
stubble fire gets out of control, they, never-
theless, stay where they are, and don’t
fly in clouds in a dry season, to smother the
just-sprouted crop on adjacent paddocks.
Moreover, if a sandhill does drift away, it
leaves a bit of waste ground behind it. Before
the mallee-scrub spread and bound the soil
together, outcrops of limestone caught the
drift-sand and started a sandhill growing in
bygone ages; to-day, if one of these hills
drifts away again, it exposes its rock founda-
tion, which grows nothing.
Things which help to start the hills drift-
ing are the too frequent use of the harrows,
burning stubble off them and the failure of
the settler to leave belts of scrub, running
at right angles to the prevailing wind, across
the farm. No one knows better than I the
drawbacks of these chain-wide strips of
scrub; but at their worst they aren’t half
as great an evil as the drifts. One Mallee
cocky I know very well is blessing his
father because the old chap, after clearing
the scrub off two high sandhills on the west-
ern boundary of the farm, fenced them in,
planted “old mail" salt-bushi horse-bush and
she-oalc on them, and kept the stock out
until the bush was well established. To-day
a grateful son has some twenty acres of
good bush-feed for his sheep—and those sand-
hills have “stayed put.” Other men have
locked up dangerous areas of sand with
marram-grass or what is as good as any-
thing—the common bamboo. But the best
thing of all might be to leave the natural
scrub on those white, loose hillocks—even a
“newchum” can pick them out —which are
such a menace after the scrub is off in
seasons such as the present.
CANADA.
“P.X.”: The three prairie provinces of
Canada are disturbed by the soil-drift prob-
lem ; and a questionnaire was recently pre-
pared and sent to farmers in every affected
district with the object of securing informa-
tion as to (1) the extent of the trouble, (2)
the causes, (3) the remedies.
The position is not precisely the same as
in Australia,, because, for one thing, in Can-
ada snow and frost are powerful factors in
soil-disintegration. These and the_ absence
of protection from storms were said to be
the chief causes. Newly-broken land does
not drift; the older the district the worse
the trouble.
The farmers differed about almost every-
thing in the way of remedies except tree-
planting: where a natural growth of trees
exists, soil drifting is of very rare occurrence.
Winter rye was found to be a useful crop
in most drift districts; the plants protect the
surface during the winter and spring, the
seasons when the trouble is ordinarily at its
worst.
The most approved practice in Alberta,
where little rye is grown, is “strip farming.”
The land is divided into parallel strips, vary-
ing in width from 10 to 50 rods, at right
angles to the prevailing winds. Each alter-
nate strip is cropped; the ones in between
are summer-fallowed. To protect the sum-
mer-fallowed land, a crop of oats or barley
is sometimes grown (it is planted there in
late July or early August—June-July is
midsummer), and is either allowed to go
through the winter unharvested or stock are
turned on it. In either case, but especially
in the former, the following wheat crop is,
however, liable to be prejudiced.
One farmer reported that he had followed
a single practice with success for 20 years in
a district subject to His method is to
drive down the threatened area with the
wind and toss straw into the air, spreading
it very thinly, but making sure that all the
surface is more or less covered. Prompt
action and good judgment have, he declares,
saved his farm again and again.
HORSE v. TRACTOR.
“Tumbe Munda” : “Yeoman” (B. 18/9/’29)
objects to my accounting methods. I did not
object to a tractor farmer crediting himself
with the value of wheat he could grow where
previously he grew hay, provided that he
also credits the horse-team account with
the value of the hay grown. In 75 per cent,
of the pro-tractor arguments one reads, this
item is omitted.
Re value of paddocking for horses, xeo-
man” says if the farmer did not run horses
he could turn his grass to profit by keeping
sheep. Why not both? In my district the
bulk of the paddocks are grassed with dan-
tlmnia, and local sheep-breeders say you can-
not get the best out of the grass unless horses
are also run, as they take the rougher growth,
with the result that there are succulent
young shoots for the sheep.
Rc value of crop, a farmer with a 10-
horse team will need about 00 tons of hay.
In my district this would take 40 acres of
land. If this laud were sown with wheat
for grain the average - yield would be six
bags per acre. Average price, say, 4s. per
bushel. Result: Wheat, £3 12s. per acre:
hay, £6 per acre. Which is better —wheat,
taking its chance on the world’s mark* ; or
hay, an assured market on your own farm !
But the time is fast coming when the flash
accounting methods, under which everything
is valued (even time), will be dispensed with,
and the farmer will realise that it is the
difference between actual money paid out
and money coming in that counts. The horse
team is fuelled by hay grown on the farm,
whereas, the tractor uses kerosene, petrol
and oil, every pint of which must be bought
and paid for and also-carted from the station.
Further, the excreta of the tractor becomes
a nuisance on the place, while tin 1 excreta
of the horse is valuable in the garden,
orchard, greenfeed patch and paddock.
TRACTORS AND SOIL IMPACTION.
“Hatter”: The packing of the ground
caused by tractor-wheels is one of the objec-
tions raised against their use, but this result
is often due to poor farming practice. If
profitable crops are to be raised it is essen-
tial to follow a crop rotation that will main-
tain a satisfactory supply of humus in the
soil. The decomposition of the vegetable
and animal tissues which form humus pro-
duces certain changes of a physical nature
which render the soil mellow and absorbent.
On freshly-broken virgin peat-soil, con-
taining up to 90' p.c. organic matter, the
action of the tractor-wheels was found to
prove beneficial to germination. On the
other hand, both clay and sandy soils con-
taining. -less than 1 p.c. organic matter
showed serious injury to crop growth due
to the packing by the wheels. The same
soils showed no adverse effects when the
humus contents had been brought up to
G p.c. to a depth of about 11 inches.
These experiments were carried on over a
period of eight years.
WHAT WHEAT COSTS TO GROW.
“Penfield”: An awful lot of nonsense is
talked about costs of production. For
instance, a Coal Commission has been at
work —largely in camera— trying to arrive
at a figure which will express costs for the
entire industry .in northern N. S. Wales.
It would be almost as sensible to ask, What
does a wife cost? No doubt every farmer
ought to know wliat it is costing himself
to grow wheat or wool or anything else. In
particular he ought to know how the various
items move from year to year; in that way
he can often see where he is slipping and
then find out why this or that is costing more
than it used to. There may be a satisfactory
explanation; or there may be a leakage some-
where. But it is quite a different thing to
try to arrive at a figure for the industry as
a whole. It lias been printed again and
again that the Australian figures for wheat-
growing allow no margin of profit for the
wheatgrower. Yet hundreds of wheatgrowers
knew at the time that they were making-
very fair profits. It is the same every-
where and with all crops. In the U.S.A. it
is said that “wheat costs a dollar to grow,”
but tens of thousands of farmers know that
it is costing them no more than 40 cents--
two-fiftlis of a dollar. In Texas (U.S.A.)
the average yield of cotton is 1351 b. per
acre, and the average cost of production is
put at 21.4 cents per lb. ; yet the carefully
checked figures of 27 farmers in the State
showed that-they averaged 12411 b. per acre,
and grew and harvested it at an average
cost of 4.7 cents.
So when I read that it costs on the aver-
age from 4s. to 4s. 6d. a bushel to grow
wheat in Australia, it doesn’t discourage me.
What I’ve got to worry about is what it’s
costing me. And I know it will cost me the
average only so long as I am an average
farmer; wherefore my job is to become some-
thing better than the average.
THE ROLLER.
“Tomjoey”: The roller has even more
to commend it than “J.L.G.” claims (B.
4/9/’29). If a- crop is to be cut for hay,
a roller put over it levels the soil, enabling
the binder to cut much closer to the ground.
This results in a gain of as much as Bcwt.
of hay per acre in a heavy crop-—and we all
know that hay is sold by weight. Further,
the roller crushes up the clods, and clods
are terrible moisture-robbers.
The main hay-growing area of South Aus.
runs from a few miles north of Adelaide to
just south of Kooringa, comprising thou-
sands of acres of fertile land which grew
passable crops even in the 1914 drought.
Nearly all the crop in this area—especially
when the back country is having a dry time
—is cut for hay, and the cockies nearly all
use the roller as a matter of course. They
lcnoiv it pays.
DON’T DRY FALLOW.
“John G.”: When the present dry sea-
sons in the Mallee have spent themselves
there is nothing surer than a year of abun-
dant rainfall. The great burden of the
settler is the purchase of chaff, with or
without _ Government assistance, to keep his
team alive till that good year arrives; and
being eager to get some return for his outlay
teams can be seen fallowing paddocks in
their dry state.
1 hiring previous droughts this lias been
done; and when the good year came pad-
docks that had not been fallowed went bags
to the acre better than those dry fallowed.
For the present the use of the team in
dam-sinking, in making ample provision for
the future water supply, will be far more
profitable.
BUZZZ!
“John E.”: Rams are worried, too, by
the fly that comes with spring—behind the
horns particularly. A good preventive is to
shear the wool of the head and jaws; do it
closely. Then thoroughly daub with kerosene
and Stockholm tar.
If the appearance of the ram is not a
consideration, saw his horns off to a length
of five or six inches. This is painful and
draws blood, but it saves him from much
suffering later, and even saves his life some-
times. If a ram has been struck for a couple
of days before being found, the maggots can
be speedily loosened from the inaccessible
crevices by pouring in a small quantity ot
benzine. It is about the quickest maggot-
killer, though expensive for a large number
of sheep.
Many owners have adopted leather helmets
for valuable rams. These buckle on the
horns, and hold a thick pad in position on
the top of the head, the part which suffers
most when rams “box on.” These helmets
not only protect the head, but actually dis-
suade the rams from fighting.
Should a flyblown head have become bad
before the ram is found and the maggots
have penetrated the scalp, part of the scalp
should be surgically removed and powdered
iodoform sprinkled on the wound. Removal
of portion of the scalp is disfiguring and a
drastic treatment; but in far-gone cases it
is necessary. Should the maggots actually
penetrate the horns themselves, repeated
sluicing-out with benzine will fetch them, and
tar should be applied over the holes after
. each sluicing.
BURNING OFF.
“Buckwong”: The ordinary burners-off
generally begin by throwing together the
light stuff and sending it up in smoke,
leaving the big, sodden logs to cumber the
ground and harbor vermin, or else cost end-
less boiler-bursting yakker to finally get rid
of. The philosopher, on the contrary,
cherishes every stick and handy chunk, using
them to maintain little fires which will
gradually eat through the most obstinate
trunks; he cunningly places them in forks
and crotches, in spouts and rotten spots,
Avhich may often be found in the soundest-
seeming timber. So he cuts up with fire the
smaller trunks and larger limbs, using the
light logs so produced as cross-burners for
the heavy stuff. These cross-burners are
then see-sawed whenevei' the chance occurs,
which makes them bite into the logs below
much quicker. As these larger logs are
burned off into manageable lengths, it be-
comes very advisable to use a pair of
draught-horses to work them into position.
With horses, a long, strong chain for hauling
and parbuckling and a pair of handy saplings
for skids, one competent man can do as
niuch as half a dozen without these aids.
The job should always be started at the
highest point in the paddock to be cleared:
thus one has the advantage of a downhill
haul for the remaining logs, which thus be-
come a help instead of a hindrance, as they
are when one has to work them uphill to a
new fire.
Though it takes more time, of course, it
is best to burn down and clear up any
standing dead timber which is not likely
to be wanted for firewood ; else one is sure
to have trees falling on the newly-cleared
ground, perhaps, before one is through with
the original job. Above all, hollow stumps
should be got rid of. For my own part, I
take no satisfaction in clearing country if
stumps, however sound, are ah owed to re-
main—they become a hundredfold more
obtrusive after the big stuff is gone.
Finally, in all burning-off, but especially
among standing trees and stumps, the wind
can be made to do more than half the work,
if judiciously availed of. Roll any spare logs
against the butts of the standing stuff on
(Continued on page 31.)


MMHi
7 =.■ . :■<
■ : i mm
«
k;
r
■
: .
; ;
:
'
mmiii■'
WBWWftyir mmw
miu
*•
ail
1 I
; ■
w
M; : *- ; fj
-- v>'|
■ypb-
L'llls i
11
1
P
'
■iiiiiffiinii
V
'■ , r 7
w
M * •* ■ m A
k: -y
■till!
t '•
._*'**♦
fiMl
•IPmm * I
- -.¥ ■■■••.■■ ;
11
m
m
tiisa
n i*xi
XMMS
■HH
.
..
.
' : a *
wtppwis
WHERE RELIABILITY IS ESSENTIAL,
ENGINEERS SPECIFY TUDOR
Part of a Tudor Battery consisting of 300 cells, having a capacity of 1 7,000 ampere hours at
the ten-hour rate, recently installed in the Clarence Street Sub-station of the Sydney
Municipal Council.
This is the fourth large Tudor Battery to be installed by the Sydney Municipal Council in
their sub-stations. The batteries at the new Bunnerong Power Station are also TUDOR.
The same rugged strength and reliability is built into
Tudor Batteries for Country House and Farm Lighting.
TUDOR BATTERIES are supplied exclusively
with
and with
đ
DELCO-LIGHT
plants by
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd., Sydney.
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd., Melbourne.
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd., Brisbane.
Messrs. Parsons & Robertson, Ltd., Adelaide.
plants by-
Messrs. Dangar, Gedye, Ltd., Sydney.
Messrs. Malloch Bros., Perth.
For each of the above plants a special exclusive
type of TUDOR BATTERY is supplied,
specially designed to meet the individual
requirements of the plants.
TUDOR ACCUMULATORS
Australasian Office:
THE TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD. (LONDON),
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, Sydney*


rr
n
//
rus
LIGHTING MODES
FROM AMERICA
An attractive electrolier is the central
feature of the room and completes the
good impression of walls, pictures and
furniture. So do smart wall brackets
for rooms or hall. We are showing
some handsome designs of both with
either upright candles or cluster bulbs
of great beauty, embodying French,
Spanish and Colonial period motifs, the
latest ideas from American homes.
You’ll see them at
DANKS’ DISPLAY OF
ELECTROLIERS AND BRACKETS
Prices are favorable. Call and inspect.
d
VL.
ď
a
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
DEPARTMENT OF
OVERSEAS TRADE
ro to BRITAIN
FOR THE BEST
W ith a minimum of time and
trouble the new products of
whole sections of industry
can be seen each year
at the
BRITISH
INDUSTRIES
FAIR
LONDON and BIRMINGHAM
FEB. 17 —2B . 1930
For further particulars
and cards of invitation
apply to the British
Trade Commissioners,
Sydney or Melbourne
The Trend To
Four Speeds Forward
It is gratifying to find the public turning to four speeds forward as the modern
means of obtaining high road speeds with low engine speeds, rapid acceleration
in traffic, and a new smoothness of operation. The thrilling performance of the
time-proved Graham-Paige four-speed transmission (two high speeds— standard
gear shift), with a motor and chassis engineered to bring out its full advantages
—has won the enthusiastic approval of many thousands of owners.
AAAAAM
AAlGrfc
GRAHAM - PAIGE offers a
variety of body types, includ-
ing Roadsters, Tourers, Cobrio-
lets, Coupgs and Sedans, on
live chassis, in sixes and eights
—at a wide range of prices.
Over 30 different body styles
now available for inspection.
Mona Qvj Five-Passages Sedas
Jl&depA. $ G^a/.cunty
Graham-Paige Distributors, Australia and New Zealand:
QUEENSLAND MOXON MOTORS, LTD.
NEW SOUTH WALES W. H. LOBER & CO., LTD.
VICTORIA WALTER WHITBOURN PTY., LTD.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA .. .. MAUGHAN THIEM MOTOR CO., LTD.
WEST AUSTRALIA ARTHUR BALES, LIMITED.
TASMANIA TWIN-TOP MOTORS PTY., LTD.
.. WRIGHT, STEPHENSON & CO., LTD.
NEW ZEALAND
£AAMAM-PAl££


jt SiSSfv
B
: :
Si
*'*.»*■<
e
H
feSPS«®
iii
€1
The finest leather
Flat, squared toe, arched lacing,
low-cut sides-—all the distinctive
features of Abbey design are found
in this shoe made in the best four
leathers obtainable.
As the photo shows, it is particularly
smart. It adapts itself at once to
the foot no breaking-in is needed.
Order by Post
Every half size is available in three
fittings narrow, medium and wide.
That guarantees made-to-measure
comfort. Specify width, and order,
also, a special Abbey Polishing
Outfit 2/6
Tan Willow Calf - - 52/6
Glace Kid - 52/6
Black Box Calf - 50/-
Patent Leather - 60/-
Enlarged catalogue of men's and
women’s footwear post free.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
FPLI47
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
No disease has caused more loss in sheep than Fluke,
yet for less than one-fifth of a penny per sheep this
can now be cured by the application of Carbon
Tetrachloride. This process'-&ias been tested by the
Agricultural Departments of various States in Aus-
tralia, and lias received their endorsement. It
requires preparation and additions before it can be
applied to the sheep, and these are skilfully carried
out in
SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
1 pint tins ... 4/6 5/- each
1 quart tins . . 6/6 7/- each
DOST FREE ON FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins ..13/6 16/- each
DELIVERED NEAREST RAILWAY STATION
ON FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY., LTD.,
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Martin Ditcher
Hundreds of Australian
pastoralists and farmers are
using the Martin Ditcher for
a score of purposes. It is
the most useful farm imple-
ment ever devised, quickly
saving the cost, £35, in
speed, efficiency and wages.
S*B
M
MI
j. B. WALLIS, LTD.,
Challis House, Martin Place,
Sydney j
499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
168 Edward Street, Brisbane
T. T. B’ld’g, Light Square, Adelaide
Padbury Building, Forrest Place, Perth
B.K.
đ
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
PAY AS YOU GO BY CHEQUE
1. It eliminates unwise spending.
2. It saves time and many steps in settling bills.
3. It gives prestige to your transactions.
4. It instils respect through your association with a reputable bank.
At this Bank you are allowed. Interest on your
minimum quarterly balance.
%
HEAD OFFICE 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Blanches throughout the Commonwealth and at London
d
wm
i
* if
Taylor’s Portable
Crow Trap
An Efficient Watchdog Over
Your Lambs and Flocks.
DEING all metal, lasts a lifetime;
folds up completely. Weighs
1 401 b. Size, 6ft. x 6ft. x 6ft. It can
be erected and dismantled in a few
minutes by one man.
The trap consists of four sides and
top. The frame is constructed of
piping, with all joints electrically
welded. The sides and top are
covered with special gauge wire-
netting. There is a small opening
on top of cage for the crows, and a
door in one side to allow the bait to be placed.
Instructions for erecting are sent with each trap.
Price (f.o.r. Melbourne), each £6/17/6
Manufactured by
D. & W. CHANDLER, LTD.
BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY, VICTORIA,
the side from which the prevailing winds
come, and do not light up until a gale begins.
Then you will see trees (and stumps) cut
off almost as quickly and cleanly as a cross-
cut saw could do it.
PEANUT-GROWING IN NORTH
AUSTRALIA.
’•Jacobb” (Darwin) : The present season
has seen the greatest area under cultivation
in the history of the North, thanks to the
embargo on the importation of peanuts into
Australia. . And we believe we have the best
nuts in the world. The settlers on the Daly
River have battled against stupendous odds
for eight years, and have won through. This
year they had 70 acres under crop, which,
according to the variety planted, give from
£45 to £5O per acre. Other smaller areas
have been planted in the coastal area; even
the Katherine River district, which was
thought too- dry, has had good crops. Many
others in the North are taking up land this
year with a view to increasing the output,
and the next crop should double the present
season’s.
Land is available for the asking, and tools
and seed are provided on long terms to
approved applicants.
Cropping and harvesting are very simple.
The ground is prepared after the first gen-
eral rains of the wet season, generally Decem-
ber, and planting as a rule is done in Feb-
ruary. Three months from the planting the
digging is commenced. Aboriginal labor is
abundant in some parts, but several growers
have proved that it is not a necessity. Farm
power-units would give better results. Thus
far, in most cases, the crudest of appliances
have been used.
Of pests there are none under the ground,
but above the surface such things as bandi-
coots, wallabies and birds play havoc with
the crops if areas are not well wire-netted
and old abos. employed to walk the crops.
Tips season a new shareholder has arrived in
the form of swarms of abo. dogs, which have
quickly acquired the taste for the oily nuts.
These invade the crops and stacks in great
numbers, and one settler estimates that the
average dog consumes lib. of nuts a day.
As each abo. averages three dogs the prob-
lem is a difficult one, and has to be handled
very carefully; for to interfere with one of
the mongrels is to insult the owner and pos-
sibly lose the services of the whole of the
members of that family, or even the tribe.
The difficulty lias been overcome in some
cases by settlers supplying abundance of
animal food (game and goat flesh) and
keeping the stacks in wire,-netting enclosures.
Tlje danger of over-production of peanuts
does not exist at present, for one Sydney
firm is prepared to take 1000 tons of the
class produced on the Daly River this
year.
The railway assists the settler by reduced
rates, and the N. A. Commission helps with
a handsome subsidy to the coastal shipping
service, which at present is the best the
North has had since the Commonwealth
Government took over in 1911.
lODINE DEFICIENCY.
“Tumbe Munda”: A few years ago soil
analyses had a boom; but it was found that,
while analysis could detect the various
plant foods and their quantities, it failed to
reveal whether the foods were available to
plants or not. It was ascertained also that
lime was not a plant food, but that its
function was to release or make available
to. the plants the various elements in the
soil. So lime had its boom—until it was
found that on some soils lime acted as a
deterrent instead of a stimulant. After
that most of us decided* that the only reliable
method is that of district experiments.
Now science assures us‘ that the ability of
stock to assimilate the various foods which
are utilised by plants varies according to
the chemical elements available in their own
constitution ; and just as lime is not a plant
food, but in some districts releases foods for
the use of plants, so iodine is not a food
but enables animals in certain districts to
make use of the foods which nature provides.
One authority insists that the growth of
wool and hair claimed for the Voronoff
monkey-gland treatment is caused by the
iodine in the gland; and the same is pro-
bably true of the increased bodily and
mental vigor derived from the thyroid-
gland treatment. It is well known that
goitre is caused by iodine deficiency, and
there are stretches of country which are
goitre belts; as I live in one such belt, I
have been able to observe the treatment and
its effects. Now in almost all cases a goitre
belt is a limestone belt. Therefore, lime-
stone country is liable to be deficient in
iodine, and stock raised there are subject to
goitre.
The South Aus. Department of Agricul-
ture has issued recipes for goitre treatment,
hor sows, dissolve loz. potassium iodide in
one gallon of water, and put one tablespoon of
this solution in the feed every day. For cows,
4oz. potassium. iodide to 1001 b. of salt; give
2oz. of the mixture per day. For poultry
loz potassium dissolved in a pint of water,
and give one teaspoon in a gallon of drink-
ing water once a week.
The chief dairy inspector of Victoria
advises a lick for all stock in which soz.
of potassium iodide has been incorporated
with every 1001 b. of mineral.
Do not put iodised water in metal troughs.
SPRING AND SUMMER PRUNING.
Otim”: From now right through to
autumn watch the fruit-trees and vines, and
keep pruning. That is, of minor shoots and
growths, leaving the major work till the
sap is down in the winter. Big operations
like removing a limb will bleed too much
now., and affect the growth of tree and fruit
by the loss of sap. If it’s got to be done,
pack wet mud over the wound. The biggest
: lob is to remove all the under shoots ; that
is, the eyes that have thrown out a growth
on the bottom of the branch. If these are
lett they will tend to bring the limb down,
causing bad shape and perhaps breakage
when the weight of fruit is added. Thin
out all surplus shoots through the tree,'
giving an eye to shape and fruit maturity,
but be careful to leave sufficient to protect
the crop from wind and sun. The trunk
shoots and suckers want removing, too, but
in an old tree some young shoots may be lett
to replace a withered limb.
As: the crop grows don't spare the thin-
’ ning if you want quality. In most districts
there will be a fairly heavy crop of stone
fruits, and in getting good prices size and
condition count.
When a limb is weak and carrying a
heavy crop, don’t chance to luck; support
it by a rope—not wire—to the main trunk,
or by a forked stick underneath.
Another point: Constant pruning keeps
you in touch with any aphis that may come,
and a whole orchard can be attacked in a few
days from a neglected tree.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“E.H.M.”: To prevent lice from interfer-
ing with a sitting hen chop an onion very
finely and sprinkle about the nest.
“Codring” ; If not properly managed, duck-
lings are very liable to develop “staggers
and die, They should have plenty of shade,
and plenty of water should be available to
them whenever they want it. The vessel con-
taining it should be deep enough to allow
them to dip their beaks far enough to covei
their eyes.
“J.D.G.”: A frequent cause of trouble
with farm engines is the breaking of a
spiral-compression spring. A temporary
repair can be made by inserting a thin
washer between the broken ends. This pre-
vents the spring from telescoping. The
washer should be a fairly close fit on the
rod, but should slide easily.
“Hinemoa”: A Hastings (M.L.) farmer
this year obtained four tons of potatoes from
an eighth of an acre. When planting lie
picked out all the eyes except three at one
end. The result, he says, is a strong plant,
and more and larger potatoes to the root.
Ordinary-sized seed' is used, and nothing
unusual in the way of cultivation.
“Wrash”: When mortised posts are used
for a cattle or sheep race, the animals in
passing through bump the halves that pro-
ject inward, and there is a constant hind-
rance to free running. The posts should be
erected edgewise with the length of the race.
The rails should be held in position with
half-inch iron spikes. And the spikes should
be driven flush and clinched at their pointed
ends.
“Landsborough” : The firewood axe gener-
ally comes hi for a rough time, the weakest
spot being where the handle enters the head.
Misplaced blows and a blunt axe lead to
that part being jarred or chipped till it
breaks if jambed in a piece of wood. Most
of this trouble can be prevented by cutting
out a piece of sheet-iron, bending it double
and fastening it on the handle just below
the head.
“C.H.P.” : Often a needle for sewing bags
is needed and the only one on the farm is
missing. It is quite easy to make one from
an opener as supplied with tinned meat or
fish. Open it out and sharpen the end with
a file or on the grindstone; the part that is
used for opening the tins serves as an eye
for the needle. These openers should never
be thrown away, but should be made into
needles in your spare time.
“Codring” : To prevent milk fever, for the
last two weeks before calving give wheat
bran, 1001 b.; ground oats, 1001 b. ; oil meal,
451 b. Give 101 b. to a feed—a hit more for
larger cows. It is to be added to the usual
roughage, such as lucerne hay, silage, etc.
For the last week or so discontinue the
silage, feed no maize, and increase the hay
instead. For the last couple of days the
cows should be given nothing but bran-mash
and hay, the chill should be taken from the
drinking water. After qalving do not remove
more than about half the milk from the
udder for the first three days.
“Con Creet” : You can’t be too careful in
the vineyard and orchard with prunings and
old leaves and growth. They are the greatest
breeding-grounds for pests. Just now many
growers are pulling off hundreds of leaves,
especially from young trees that are affected
with curly-leaf. Take an old can along on
the job and drop all the leaves into it, burn-
ing them at the end of the day. Cast your
eye round for any other trees or shrubs
that may be breeding-grounds for aphis or
other pests, and treat them to spray or the
mattock.
“Cod”: To preserve eggs there is nothing
better than lime, or as cheap. To 20 parts
of water add 4 parts of finely-slaked lime.
Five days later, after the lime and water
have . been thoroughly mixed and left to
stand, add 1 part of salt. At the end of
a week the solution is ready for use. Do
not use any but fresh eggs ; put them in the
pickle the day they arc laid. Those that
are not fertile are safest. Do not put in
dirty eggs or those which have become heated
in the sun or cracked. Keep the container
well covered. Before boiling preserved eggs
prick the thick end with a needle to prevent
them cracking.
“C.H.P.” : When I unreel barb-wire, I do
it this way. I run an iron rod through the
roll of wire and, over each end of the rod
slip a small jam-tin with a hole in the centre
of the bottom. A trace chain is then looped
over the end of the rod at each side and a
swingle-bar attached to the middle of the
chain. The free end of the wire is fastened
to a post and a horse hooked to the swingle-
bar on the wire and the roll pulled along.
The wire not only comes out straight, but
most of the slack is taken up and there is
very little straining to do.
“XSA”: If, through the effects of dry
conditions, grape-vines are making a weakly
growth, it will pay to concentrate on vigor-
ous growth rather than on crop. Relieve
each vine according to condition and fertilise
for wood so that the prospects for next year
may be enhanced. Reduce the shoots where
it is found that the vine is overloaded. If
the berries are setting unevenly, ‘ search for
a deficiency in the soil. Atmospheric condi-
tions frequently cause this, but it will mostly
be due to lack of nourishment. Should one
particular variety continue to display this
fault, the type must be accepted as unsuit-
able!


d
Why be satisfied with less ?
SHARE in the benefits that P. & C. Assurance brings ! When times
are hazardous the company keeps policies in force ; a definite
sum is set aside each year for loan purposes. P. &C. policies
are planned to meet the special needs of the man on the land—these
are the things that have resulted from the co-operative basis of the
P. &C. The further fact that the company is linked with the most
influential co-operative bodies in the Commonwealth is yet another
factor in the stability of the company. When such advantages can
be obtained at no extra cost, why be satisfied with less ?
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Man. Director: H. Fell
PRODUCERS S'CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD..
221-225 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
7 he Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting- Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety F-use
Detonators
Cartridges
IT SELLS AT SIGHT.
THE NEW
PROBATE INSURANCE!
Under ordinary conditions £lOOO Probate Insurance costs
the proposer, aged 50 years, over a period of 10 years,
£425/8/4.
The NEW PROBATE policy covers the same
risk for I 0 years for £l6O.
Write Pacific Underwriters,
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
for full particulars. .
<f
A
. .AN
A*J> V
-p
. ;b° v r v v
SMOKE-OH!
All the papers issued a solemn warning
the other day :
An X Makes Your Vote Informal.
Yet none of them mentioned XNX, which
makes your steps informal.
44 *
“ ‘My wife,’ said the defendant ‘4 cwf etaoin
*! ! ?—Sun.
Exactly bow we feel about ours at times.
44 44
“A returned sportsman complains that many
English racecourses are as much as 50 miles from
London.”
It certainly is rather a long walk home.
44 44
“Because his father told him to make his own
way in life, John threw himself from a top-
floor window.” '
In short lie decided to go out into the
world and do for himself.
* *
Viewing the world's conflicting cliques,
One wonders it. can carry them;
Thus scores of men collect antiques,
And countless others marry them.
WHEN GREEK MEETS GREEK.
They start a fish-shop.
“A Melbourne broadcasting station has a scheme
to encourage those who are air-minded.”— Herald.
Not to be confused with those who are
’are-brained, of course.
At At
Making my mind up soon to call
Upon the Browns the floor I pace.
“Shall wc,” I fume, “get there at all?”
My icife is making up her face!
P. P.
* *
“The appeal to Caesar has been made, and Caesar
has answered in a way that Mr. Bruce and those
who led the Nationalist party to its Waterloo will
never forget.”—lF. M. Hughes.
Mr. Bruce should have studied history.
The appeal to Wellington was made in
similar circumstances, and, as every school-
boy knows, it resulted in the invasion of
Britain and the downfall of Boadicea.
44 *
“An aeroplane carried two pigs from Melbourne
to be exhibited at the Hay Show.”
So much for the sneering old claim that
pigs can’t fly.
¥ *
SOLUTION.
“The debate, ‘What is a Highbrow?’ was at times
acrimonious.”— Guardian.
Let’s •solve a problem that a lot
Of folk discuss, and quarrels stem;
Highbrows are people who have got
A sneering way of raising them.
X X
“The investment of money in Australia should be
the concern of all British capitalists.”
It’s already a matter of interest, of course.
BUSINESS AS USUAL.
“If it's a cold bath yer wantin’, Miss, go right ahead. It’s the
’eater I’m workin’ on.”
“Birthday Party: Everybody Drunk.” — Melbourne
police court report.
On the principle that irrigation is the
sincerest flattery, no doubt.
“He looked as if he had all the cars in the world
on his shoulders.”- — Sydney News.
Poor devil ! We know a t.-p. victim with
only one car to support who looks miserable
enough.
44 ¥
OVERTIME.
Higgedly, piggedlv, my typist,
She types letters to save my fist.
Six an hour, and even eight—
But. none at all when we work late!
Pom.
x
AMONG THE BALDHEADS.
“An advertiser in a London daily called for 12
respectable baldheaded gentlemen who would allow
him to paint typewriter advts on their scalps.”
“I knew there’d be trouble when them
underdose people painted the ’arf-nakod
flapper on ’Erb’s ’ead. ’E's
broke two mirrors an’ dis-
located ’is neck trying to
see her.”
“Poor Dorkins has joined
the ranks of the unemploy-
ables. A rival poured hair-
restorer on his scalp, and
not only ruined the ad. for
Bunk’s Beans but got him
the sack.”
“Oh, no ; Yggs tvasn’t long
putting Jock Garden’s ad.
fer th’ Communist Party on
’is nut. ’E simply ’ad ’is
’ead red.”
“Leave the house, sir!
No daughter of mine shall
marry a man with beer on
the brain.”
o. w. w.
Mr. Archdale Parkliill was windy while
the Warringah returns were coming in, but
his opponent was Windeyer.
44 44
DETIIRO NEMEN T.
“Pie married his model, but they soon separated.”
A model wife, no doubt, was she,
And yet they had to part;
For as a icife she erased to he
The lady of his art.
* 44
“I am not a rabbit.” — Dr. Nott.
Still he’s been trying hard to get back to
his Canburrow.
IT IS THEN UP TO BIGBOY.
THE INEVITABLE YOUNG BROTHER: “I bet Mr. Bigboy
would kiss you, Betty, if I wasn’t here.”
BETTY: “You cheeky imp — leave the room at once!”
“Unfortunately, the machinery only exists on
paper.’’— Bankruptcy report.
What might be called a stationery engine
[For matter requiring a signature, J. B. Dailey,
214 George-street, Sydney, shares the blame with
J. E. Webb, same address.]
EMBARRASSED.
When braces break in Martin-place
The wearer feels a fool;
The flapper who trails undie lace
Is shamed by ridicule. •
Garters may give in Railway-square,
And careless hands rip Fuji,
But it's far worse when thousands glare
While bathers burst at Coogee!
Ric.
THE NEGLECTED GOLDMINE.
“Many Sydney clergymen are on the verge of
starvation. When their widows appealed to their
churches for help they were told to get the old age
pension.”— Speaker at Sydney Synod.
It was a wild night. The ruined manse
(Wbd. cott., 3 rms., no con vs.) shook before
the blast. As the Rev. McPliairson and his
wife sat down to their Sabbath dinner of
bread and dripping a crash sounded outside.
“There goes the wash-house,” observed the
clergyman. “Ah, well! ’Tis the Lord’s
will.” A thunderous knocking came at the
front door. Under an umbrella, held by a
solicitous chauffeur, stood a patrician figure.
His fur coat, his diamonds, his spats, his
immense cigar, the champagne bottles stick-
ing out of his pockets bespoke the refine-
ments of wealth. His features were Semitic
and his voice nasal in intonation, hut the
Australian flag in his buttonhole and the
even larger one on the radiator of his enor-
mous car established his nationality beyond
cavil.
"Pleased ter mcetyer, folks,” said Mr.
Talbot Malahyde, the dinkum Aussie movie
magnate (for Mr. Malahyde it was). “I
gotter proposition to make.”
The champagne was opened, cigars were
lighted, and he began.
“How ud a guaranteed salary of £5OOO
a year suit you, Pastor?”
“At present,” quavered Mr. McPliairson,
“my helpmeet and I are on the verge of
starvation.”
“Sign on the dotted line,” said Mr. Mala-
hyde briskly, and placed a contract on the
table. The cleric signed with trembling
hand, and Mr. Malahyde proceeded.
“You gotter goldmine here, Reverend, but
she ain’t perdoocin’. To-morrow I start
work on a super-kirk. Minimum cost
£lOO,OOO. Designed on the lines of the
Temple at Luxor, with Moorish embellish-
ments, a German baronial ceiling picked
out in Parisian electrics of 97 different
colors; Jacobean Gents.’ Clubroom; cov-
ered-in Louis Quatorze parking-place for a
thousand ottermobeels”
“For several years my maximum congre-
gation has numbered but six,” objected the
divine.
“Don’t interrupt. In the body of the kirk
1500 luxuriously upholstered pews. Down-
filled hassocks with the Royal arms in blue
an’. gold. Sidesmen in military uniforms,
an’ the head verger dressed as a U.S.A.
admiral witlf the title of Presbytery-Cap-
tain. A choir of 150 cuties —replaced, as
soon as we get our public, by a Wurlitzer.
Hymnbooks to carry not less than 100 pages
of advts. A screen for pictures of an elevat-
ing Biblical character —we’ll begin with
“Susannah and the Elders,” featuring Clara
Bow. Prices”-
“Threepence,” interjected the clergyman.
“For morning services,” Mr. Malahyde
went on inflexibly, “4s. Pleasant Sunday
afternoons, Bs. Evening Blessings 16s. 61 d.
Double rates for day services in wet
weather.”
“You’ll never do it!” cried the other
wildly. “Never. I know them. Threepence
is their limit, and often”
“Watch me,” smiled the magnate. “Here
you are with the completest monopoly on
earth. No competition of any sort or kind,
an’ you talk about thrippenees! Look it,
big boy, when we get our chain of sup°r-
tabernaclcs going all round Australia this’ll
be the most wunnerful lil’ money-earner the
world’s ever known.”
J. B. D.
VICTORY!
Colonel Jones, famous for his leadership in
the campaign in Palestine, plodded dog-
gedly on beneath a blistering sun that
sucked all moisture from the ground. Behind
him came Major Smith, swearing feebly, the
sweat streaming from his drawn features,
defeat in his haunted eyes. Such was the
training of these soldiers and their little
band of followers, and so sacred was their
cause, that none dreamed of dropping out.
Suddenly the Colonel halted. There on a
rise, through the metallic shimmering of the
heat-wave, was the Flag that they had been
hoping and praying for. It hung dispiritedly
in the scorching air, yet there it was, giving
hope of good cheer and friendly faces once
again. New life came upon the exhausted
little party. The Colonel squared his great
shoulders, for there was yet much to be
done. His hand flashed to his side; there
was a glint of sunlight upon steel, and with
a perfect mashie shot he landed on the 18th
green. The ball trickled to the edge of the
hole. It dropped in. The A.I.F. Tourna-
ment of the Woop-Woop Golf Club was over.
DEMOSTHRNES H.
THE COMMON TOUCH.
She was a lovely girl.
Tall, svelte, patrician, ex-
quisitely dressed in a hat
like a 15-guinea beehive, and
a frock that would have set
any normal society reporter
gibbering with admiration,
she stood near the kerb wait-
ing for her car. It arrived,
and as the chauffeur opened
the door, she leant over the gutter and deli-
berately spat! There is nothing that brings
us down to the plebeian level more effec-
tively than the recent extraction of a tooth.
DOEIC.
LOVE IN THE MISSED.
“My wife says I’ve deserted her. Yet when I’m
home she throws crockery at me.”—Sun report.
Phenomena that make men flout
Convention's laws, and widely roam,
Are wives who miss them when they're out,
But fail to miss them when they're home.
SHERLOCK DOES IT AGAIN.
“Better bring your service revolver and a
stout stick to-night,” said Holmes.
“Why?” I asked with my usual idiocy.
“We’re going to Darlinghurst.”
“Where’s Darling ?”
A heavy missile struck me on the brow,
and when I came to I was being decanted
from a taxi at the Wurlizerium.
As we were ushered to our seats Holmes
caught my arm and hissed, “Steady, Watson,
steady. Concentrate on the first of the nine-
teen murders on to-night’s programme.”
I did so.
“They’re killing him,” I whispered after a
careful examina-
tion of the pro-
ceedings.
“It’s a her,” cor-
rected my friend
quietly.
“You mean to
say it’s a woman?"
“Obviously.”
“Dressed up?”
“Without a
doubt.”
“Holmes, you
amaze me.”
“My dear fel-
low, it’s elemen-
tary.”
Dazed with the
marvel of my com-
panion’s remark-
able powers, I fol-
lowed him from
the building.
As we breasted
one of the local
cocaine bars I
could not refrain
from compliment-
ing him again.
“You surpassed
yourself to-night,
Holmes,” I said
reverentially.
“It was easy.”
“But how did you do it?”
“Do what?”
“Spot the assassin was a woman. See
through her disguise. It was uncanny.”
“Oh, that?”
“Yes.”
“Simple. Simple to a degree.”
“Waddcryer mean, ‘simple to a degree.’”
“I saw the matinee this afternoon.’’
J.B.
PARENTAL ENDORSEMENT.
“Practice makes perfect,” so they say;
And I say so as well.
Each time I hear my daughter play
Her practice makes perfect Hell.
O. W.


UNCHANGED/
,v-
-/ \
• jy'
x
x
/
wowaoo,
/ *
IN WHnMUUJTY
* *
ICARE-TTn
STILL SUPREME- AT
* *
V
yj


■J3
%
Insist upon
'.W
&
©@rdl©i!i ,, $
GIN
S?fiR
WHITEST, PUREST & BEST
The Heart o£ a good Cocktail
■M
*»
BY APPOINTMENT
The Largest Gin Distillers
in the World.
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
The Ingredients used in the production of GORDON’S GIN
are of the finest quality procurable, and contain the greatest percentage
of those important properties which are considered by the Medical
Profession to be most beneficial to the human system. It is very
highly rectified and contains no impurities of any kind; it is there-
fore very easily digested and also aids the digestion of other beverages
with which it is mixed.
The name “GORDON” guarantees the very highest standard of
quality and absolute purity; a reputation enjoyed and jealously
guarded for over 150 years.
Gordons
dry Gin
LOW®!.
'I. W«» •« '""I
I tawquebay. oohdow »c»t* |
&6er
!■
d
After dinner
')HO would ruin the
'OL/fine aroma and stimu-
lus that Coffee brings as
the finishing touch of
Dinner by serving it in
cups less delicate than its
own fragrance? It is in-
dispensable that the service
should be worthy of the
coffee: a Shelley Coffee
Service deserves the best
that Mocha boasts.
Ask to see the latest
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
* China
Nursery Ware
Ly Lucie Attweu
&Hiloa Cowham
Dome stic Ware
Jelly Moulds
13J.CLAOBHCt «T.
BIRKMYRE’S CLOTH
(Eegd. Trade Mart.)
In addition to “ BIEKMYRE’S CLOTH "be-
ing our Registered Trade Mark the follow-
ing are also our Eegistered Trade Marks,
each complete in itself.
“L” “OM” “N”
“EX’* “H’ ••K" and "S’
Any one of these marks •will protect our
mutual interests.
60DR0CK
ROPEWORK
EXPORT CO.
LTD.
379 Kent-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Charlotte-street, Brisbane, Q.
480 Flinders-street, Melbourne! Vie.
THE PATRIOT
iDIRECTMEDIUM TO WOMENI
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
Experimenting
How much a year do
you waste in unneces-
sary Experiments?
Cut Waste and
Advertise with a
“Result-Bringer”
Che Celcgrapb
BRISBANE
Has proved itself for
over 57 years a good
“Result-Bringer” for
all Advertisers.
Cbe Celegrapb
newspaper Co. Ctd.
Queen & Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane.


Garages equipped with
TecalemiT
LUBRICATING APPARATUS
render the best service to Car Owners by
keeping cars “youthful” and' eliminating
the cause of 80 per cent, of repairs.
Particulars from
TECALEMIT SERVICE STATIONS:
ATKINS (W.A.), LTD. - - - Hay Street, PERTH
CORNELL, LTD. 122 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE
KEEP BROS. & WOOD PTY., LTD. - Bateman Street, MELBOURNE
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD. Pitt Street, SYDNEY
MARTIN WILSON BROS., LTD., 299 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE
Factory Representative - - - - Mr. James Thornell, 312 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
TECALEMIT, LTD. Mitre House, Scrubbs Lane, LONDON, N.W.10
Refrigeration
Without Ice
CITY COMPOSTS IN THE COUNTRY
“THE ECONOMY REFRIGERATOR”
“It saves its cost in food not lost.”
Packed and delivered rail or boat, Sydney.
Everything complete; Price, £37.
Safe, sure and automatic refrigeration
by Primus Stove.
No working parts to lose.
Costs lid. per day to run.
You will marvel at the clever idea of
Refrigeration by means of heat instead
of Ice. Where Ice is unprocurable
it is worth its weight in gold.
To operate: —
Once a day —take the Freezing Unit
out of the Ice Chest and stand it on
the Primus Stove, and go about your
usual duties. In a short time the
whistle will blow, indicating that the
temperature is right for the Freezer
to be put back in the Ice Chest.
It is simplicity itself. There is nothing
to get out of order, and it will last a
lifetime.
The Ice Chest Cabinet is 24in. long,
18in. wide and 19in. deep, with
porcelain-enamel interior; comprises
Freezing Unit, Ice Tray, two Shelves
and Primus Stove.
Write for pamphlet concerning “ECONOMY REFRIGERATOR,” which
“Keeps food nice without the Ice.”
Manufacturers’ Representatives:
F. R. STRANGE, LIMITED,
3 Hamilton Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 8W6129:
jP S\j
FOR 87 YEARS
“The Examiner” has been the trusted Friend of the Family
in Northern Tasmania. It is the Oldest Newspaper in
Tasmania, and is still the Family Newspaper.
FULL INFORMATION, COPIES, ADVERTISING RATES
Obtainable from 1
W. R. ROLPH & SONS,
Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Patterson Street,
LAUNCESTON.
MR. V. W. HARGETTS,
122 Flinders Street,
MELBOURNE.
MR. W. G. DOUGAN,
726 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN"
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
The
first rough suggestion—the skilful
and accurate working out, the sharp
detailed drawings, all the preliminary
planning necessary to the carrying out of
constructive effort, call for the use of VENUS
PENCILS. Whether it be for the building of a
battle-ship or the design of a simple household
article, the pencil is the first requirement ; the
VENUS the first pencil.
17 Blacklead Degrees 68-9 H, sd. each, 4/9 per dozen. Super Copying (Medium and Hard),
6d. each, 5/9 per dozen. Venus Copying (Medium and Hard), 4d. each, 3/9 per dozen.
tht" VENUS'
plans the uxM
Pen and Picture
The
STATE
THEATESSY
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
Shadow Shows
If the pleasing tenor voice heard in “The
Pagan’’(M.-G.-M.) is Ramon Novarro’s own,
that skeikisli actor must have welcomed the
change from
silent mum-
ming made
poss ible by
the talkies.
The picture
is a version
of a South
Sea yarn by
John Russell,
wherein a pair
of half-castes
have a love
affa i r that
ends in tri-
umph over the
villa inous
machina-
tions of a
white planter,
who fi r s t
forced the girl
into m atri-
al on y with
him, had her
pinched by her
brindle lover,
got her back
RENEE ADOREE in
“The Pagan.”
a nd belted her., and then lost her again, him-
self going to make an oily-looking lunch for
tne sharks. The melodramatic yarn is turned
into quite a presentable entertainment by
hne photography. The marine and submarine
glimpses as well as the whole exotic South
Seas setting is starting to wear a hackneyed
look but it is still fresher than Uncle Sam’s
everlasting canyons. Renee Adoree, Dorothy
Jams and Donald Crisp support Novarro.
“Leathernecks” (P.D.C.), having its first
Australian run at Adelaide Regent, takes
its title from the familiar name of the U.S.
marines, one of whom, a.w.l. in China, re-
turns with one comrade dead and one insane,
Lourt-martialled for desertion and (rather
absurdly) murder, he tells his story in a
succession of silent fade-outs. It is some-
where between P. C. Wren and the “Mus-
keteers.” In France he and a mate made
farm friends with a German prisoner. In
Russia he married a girl, and then instantly
lost her to a villain. In China- the three
had news of the villain, and deserted (separ-
ately*) to get him—and got him, but at
the heavy price already stated. Inevitable
verdict of acquittal; a happy ending dragged
m by the neck. A fullblooded story, but in
terms of Wren rather than of Edgar Wal-
lace. Finely acted by William Boyd and
co. down to the last super.
Though enough holes and a few over can
be shot through the probabilities of the
story m “The Black Watch” (Fox), the
“rh. le * s a very good entertainer, helped to
that plane by fine acting and the best of
photography. The movie is much more mas-
culine than is usual. The messroom of
officers of the famous Scots; war; secret
orders to one officer to go to India; his
going, and the manliness question raised
through the impression that he is funking
fa ranee; and then his job in India, which
consists in stopping religious fanatics from
entering through the Khyber Pass and setting
the country aflame. Woman comes into the
picture through the hillmen being ruled by
a white girl exalted to the post of goddess.
Ihe part of Victor McLaglen, who has to
fob himself off as a drunk and murderer, and
thus get access to the goddess’s boudoir, is
a picturesque idea well acted. Myrna Loy
is too theatrical in the lady’s part, but the
general support, which includes two dozen
or more in important roles, is excellent.
Bagpipes are prominent in creating atmo-
sphere, and, though a mere Gentile may not
be forgiven, perhaps he will be excused for
suggesting that, canned, they are quite
bearable.
Polished acting and the more than merely
passable voices of Clive Brook, Ruth Chat-
terton and William Powell make of Somer-
set Maugham’s “Charming Sinners” a com-
pletely satisfying talkie. It proves, inciden-
i’ f ' e va \ ue a topnotch dramatist’s
work for talkie purposes, dialogue on a par
with, acting and vocal merits. The situation,
too, is admirable for talkie purposes—a
triple conjunction of domestic triangles,
almost entirely straightened out indoors.
Brook, who gives a degree of polish to
even the most banal thing he appears in,
here enacts a favorite role of the perfect
woman s doctor—perfect here in that his
feminine patients admire him more unpro-
fessionally than otherwise. One, who is mar-
ri + ’ r^ oes a ff' 3r him without a blush, and
gets him up to her rooms, where he leaves
a cigarette-case. The situation is tickle-
some when next morning the husband, who
found the case, turns up at the doctor’s apart-
ment, and is fobbed off by Ruth Chatterton
as the medico’s wife, in the presence of her
husband and the vampish lady. Another
good situation follows, very clever in its
dialogue, when Ruth decides to go to Italy,
and goes, leaving the doctor with the impres-
sion that she had gone with an old flame,
• su fftetent trust in her and reawak-
+ • lre *° sen< f er a k° x flowers 011
the tram, and express his wish that she
will return afterwards. The voices of the
supports, including that of Mary Nolan as
the erring wife, merely serve to put the
clearness of the others into impressive relief.
The Greene Murder Case” (Paramount)
moves to the traditional revelations, and
closes with a tense burst of poetic justice.
Good acting lifts it above average. The
people under the opening spotlight are Ada
Greene, adopted Cinderella and the Greene
family, who hate one another but are forced
to live together in the crumbling old house,
enveloped in the usual snowstorm, for so
many years, as stipulated in the will, before
they can lay their hands on dead Greene’s
lucre. The family lawyer, having called the
roll, goes, and murder No. 1 takes place,
together with an attack on Ada. That is
the customary crass-ass police sergeant’s
cue, and he arrives with some support, in-
cluding the detective, who, as usual, is the
only one not to be deluded. Things are
beginning to slacken when murder No. 2 is
committed, and murder No. 3 follows soon
after, leaving the sleuths a choice between
the doctor (whose actions are so incrimina-
ting that any good mystery hound will know
he is innocent at once) ; Sibella Greene (a
sweet thing who casually discusses murder
without the least tremor of her marcel) and
Ada. The talkie is not burdened with irrele-
vant farce. Only once does the clutching
hand appear; the atmosphere is created
chiefly by silence, the usual butler with eyes
like a night out, and an original gaunt
female servant who damns the whole Greene
family with sulphurous slabs from the Bible.
There is a love element, arresting because un-
forced ; it runs through the picture as a deep
undercurrent. William Powell’s detective is
an outstanding performance.
The Inky Way
“P.X.” : Almost the last if not the last
shorthand job that Ernest Blackwell did was
to report what was known as the Baldwin
Engines Commission: he wanted money to
take up dental surgery, and his friend T. B.
Clegg wanted some to begin his law career,
so they jointly wangled the business. And a
tremendous business it was. W. P. Schey,
who had been sec. of the railway union, was
Commissioner Eddy’s chief accuser, and pur-
sued his examination so bitterly that at one
stage the great Eddy broke down and sobbed
Blackwell was a friend of William Lane, the
dreamer who founded New Australia. Lane
was running the Brisbane Worker, and
packing it as nobody else in Australia except
J. F. Archibald could have packed it. When
on one occasion Lane fell sick and was
driven to take a holiday, it was to Ernest
Blackwell he appealed to bring the paper out
for two or three weeks. Blackwell didn’t
quite agree with Lane, but he admired him
so much that he filled in his own holiday
by going up to Brisbane and doing his sick
friend’s job. That’s how Ernest Blackwell
was built.
Verse, issued by Frank Wilmot, of Cole’s
Library, Melbourne, in' the shape of a
lawyer’s brief, offers poets and poetasters
another chance of having their literary off-
spring adopted. Vol. I contains lines by
Ethel Davies, Elsie Cole, Llywelyn Lucas,
Irene Wilkinson, Fred Johns and others, and
a short rhapsody on “The Creative Impulse,”
by Wendy Gordon Sprigg. Louis Lavater
is the editor.
“Junius” : About the most curious news-
paper competition I recall was instituted
many years ago by a struggling Adelaide
weekly. It invited its readers to decide, by
the usual plebiscite vote, who was the worst
infliction in the public life of the country.
The polling was rather languid, with several
local Parliamentary bores leading the field,
when somebody unkindly directed the atten-
tion of John Norton, who was lying about
fourteenth, to the outrage. John had appar-
ently never heard of the offending journal
before, but he promptly pilloried it in two
columns of blistering abuse. The assailed
newspaper came back at him in a subtly
effective way. When the next week’s pro-
gress returns were published, John was found
to have moved up to the top.
“Murkah”: Literary gems? Paragraphing
a reunion of Old Girls at their school, a
Sydney suburban sheet made the principal
say: “Forty per cent, of the girls who have
left this school are married and ninety per
cent, have had children.” That issue went
off well.
The Palette-
,, °, r two . items arrest the attention at
the 20th exhibition of the Women’s Art
Club at the. Athenaeum, Melbourne. P.
Hurry s “Sheila” is a strongly-realised young
person whose face lias been a trifle roughly
handled. There is a too-painstaking search
foi color in Isabel Tweddle’s “Head of an
Old Woman,” but a haunting pathos clings
about the huddled torso. Aileen Dent’s best
effort is James Dewar,” whose eyes would
be the envy of a mystery-play villain. Ena
Smith has a particularly well-seen and
crisply-painted girl’s head, and Clarice
Beckett’s landscapes are, as usual, austerely
beautiful. The ladies are particularly keen
on flowers, but they arrange them ’ better
than they paint ’em.
Originality in conception of what consti-
tutes “still life” may be attributed to Roland
Wakelin. In a Sydney Grosvenor-Gallery
exhibition, that gentleman has hung a paint-
ing of a sewing-machine. His “Sketch” is
another example of how not to do it —car-
rots and such like magnified to sizes that
market-gardeners only dream about. On the
other hand, Nora Heysen, the 18-year-old
daughter of Ilans, shows that half a dozen
onions can be painted with interesting fidelity
Two smaller pictures, groups of hydrangeas
and zinnias, by Lloyd Rees, are other
examples of good painting. Blamire Young
exhibits a pretty flower piece; Eric Buck-
master a striking study in black and gold.
Arthur J. March hit on an idea that beat
even Wakelin s tremendous sewing-machine:
he brought along a good painting of fruit and
vegetables, and left ss. 2d. change
alongside. J ”
m C q/i : n/°iQi hlI p J ; j ' H £ der ’ s banking days
ttAW Bertram Stevens describes in
the Ililder Book the artist’s diffidence about
broadcasting his taste for painting For
some time after joining Julian Ashton’s
classes he went under an assumed name, con-
fiding to friends that his bosses at the bank
would be sure to object to one of their clerks
going in for art.” At that time Hilder
signed his work “Anthony H’ood.”


The eOJTARI) |
LINE o/BEAUTY
<5
n
This combination of striped batiste, gives the
fashionable, unbroken line to the silhouette.
When opened it reveals a supporting inner
belt, which clasps in front, and shows elastic
adjustments at the sides. The outer part of
this foundation features light, full length bones
at the back.
NEW CHARM
fCC TEE
MODERNS
In the new groups of Gossards, fash-
ionable moderns are finding a new
charm. Quick to put on, astonishingly
light in weight, these new foundation
designs support the figure with such
ease that you are unconscious of their
presence. Girdles, hookarounds, sol-
itaires, combinations and brassieres
by Gossard all follow with precision
the fashion edicts of Paris.
NEW
/LENDER
LINES
Larger figures will find new comfort
and slenderizing lines in the latest
Gossard designs. Note the new hip
line on this brassiere, which comes
well down over the top of the corset,
and terminates in a hose supporter.
It shows a special diaphragm rein-
forcement, and is made of lovely
striped satin tricot.
From fashion port to fashion port
Gossard artist-designers travel, study-
ing the needs of certain kinds of sup-
porting garments for certain kinds of
wear —the need of a guiding support
in youth, the necessity of a more defi-
nite figure aid as the figure matures.
No other garments compare with
Gossards —their superb individual
designing, their perfect ability to
blend figure and frock, their remark-
able supporting, caressing qualities.
The
Canadian H. W. Gossard
Co., Ltd.
114-120 Castlereagh Street
SYDNEY, N. S. W-
GOSSARDSARE MADE WITHIN
THE EMPIRE
FEATURES THAT HAVE MADE THE "SWAN” FAMOUS
ď
đ
d
Instant
Action
Self-Filling
“ Swans”
from 1716
Black or Mottled
Also in artistic
colours from
22/6
“Off the mark,” in a
flash—alert and eagerly
responsive !
The comb-like capillary
slots of the “ Swan ”
ladder-feed hold the ink
against the nib just, as
it was left when writing
ceased, so that the pen
is ready to write again
immediately the point
touches the paper.
X*
“Fyne-Poynt” Pencils from 7/6
SeF-Filling “Blackbird” Pens from 9/-
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD., Swan House, London, W.I.
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Ma-aginx Agents and R pair Service Depot:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.
181, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Ask to see the New Coloured “ Swans.”
“SWAN” INK —Best for “Swan” Pens and all Pens
am
■
siy*
m
. ■
f
HMr
A “KEMP” STYLE
SADDLE
AT A LOW PRICE
No. 113
This saddle is wonderful value for the
money and will give you good service. It
is built on a plated bar tree with the pads
running up almost level with the head of
saddle. The leather used is flexible kip
and it has leather points down sides of
panel. Fittings included in the price are
girth, surcingle, leathers and n.-p. stirrups.
£B/8/- or £8 without Surcingle.
Freight Paid for Cash with Order to any N.S.W. Railway Station.
K’BURRA STOCKWHIPS are guaranteed kangaroo
leather right through.
Bft., 12-plait thong, 23/6; T6-plait handle, 17/-
WALTHER $ STEVENSON, LTD.
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (Box 785 G.).
Business, Robbery, etc.
“C.Q.”: The Lascoter monoplane built at
the Larkin works, Coode Island, Melbourne,
lias been certified as airworthy. This is the
first time a permit has been granted in
respect of a machine designed and con-
structed (apart from the engine) in Aus-
tralia. It is a liandsome-looking beast, one
of whose pleasantest features is the pre-
ponderance of Australian wood—mainly
Queensland maple.
* * * *
“Lindfield” : The Forsyth factory in Syd-
ney has produced, to Burns-Philp’s order,
150 feet of the thickest rope in Australia,
if not the world. It is three feet in circum-
ference, weighs over two tons, and has 460
miles of coir yarn in it. B.-P. require ;t
for moorings in exposed roadsteads in the
Islands, where the strain on ground tackle
is often terrific. Coiling this monster down
is liable to make even the ablest seaman
greyheaded.
X X sfc
“FY7” : The Waler is not extinct in spite
of the pessimists. General Anderson, who
has been some- months in Australia, has
arranged for the shipment of nearly 6000
horses to India for army use. It has always
been a source of wonder to the writer that
so many men on the land have neglected
this profitable side-line. Nowadays any sort
of runt is reckoned good enough to keep as
a station stallion, though there are excep-
tions. A Federal system of registration and
annual vetting would do much to revive an
industry that was once important.
* x * *
“The Ringer”: Re “Elsie Ghee’s” par (B.
4/9/’29), I have been authorised by one of
the leading packing-sheds on the Murray
to deny that at any time have there been
any Australian sultanas placed on the mar-
ket as “seedless raisins.” “Raisins seeded”
and “seedless raisins” are two distinct types;
the former have their seeds extracted, whilst
the latter have no seeds. “Elsie Ghee” may
have bought “American seedless raisins.” In
that case the name was quite correct, as an
American “sultanas” are sold as “seedless
raisins.”
* * * #
“Scrounger” : 'The oil-palm may turn out
a fairy godmother for the Mandated Terri-
tory, noAV that the copra producers are feel-
ing the pinch. It is grown with success in
Sumatra, the soil and climate of which re-
semble those of New Guinea, and, except for
the final extraction of the oil, is produced
in much the same way as copra. The Depart-
ment of Agriculture has demonstrated that
the oil-palm will thrive only a few miles
from Rabaul, and Australian interests are
already discussing the erection of a mill.
* * * *
“Francis”: Silting of the Waikato River
(M.L.) has assumed such serious proportions
that navigation, even by shallow craft, is
impeded. Removal of islands, bluffs and
Avillow clumps is suggested, but the cost
Avould be vast. Great shallows extend from
Taupiri to the Heads, a distance of 60
miles, and thh damage has been added to
by enormous quantities of silt from the
Arapuni hydro-electric works. The silting
prevents the drainage of over 100,000 acres
of rich swamp land—cow-to-the-acre country.
* * * *
“F.S.”: The “barberteria” has arrived.
W. J- Carroll, of Russell-street, Melbourne,
claims to be the originator, and he has even
gone as far as to file a claim to the exclusive
use of the word. In the barberteria you
shave yourself. The management provides
you with a mirror, soap, brush, sterilised
razor (plain or safety) and a scent-spray.
In addition, you are at liberty to brush
your own hair and black your own boots.
Inclusive charge, sixpence.
* * * X
“Murkah”: The giant locos, introduced
oft N.S.W. lines are establishing records.
With an assisting engine up Como bank, the
goods load from Thirroul to Sydney used
to be 600 tons, and there were special run-
ning arrangements to prevent such a train
ever being brought to a standstill on that
bank. Recently one of the big fellows left
Thirroul with 1600 tons astern —nearly
three-quartersi of a mile of waggons. Unas-
sisted, the long string was climbing Como
bank at 30 m.p.h. when a mishap stopped
an electric train ahead, and three miles of
automatic signals behind registered danger
to protect it. Despite the delay, the 230-ton
loco, pulled into Alexandria goods-yard 18
minutes inside the old running time.
* X * #
“Cachalot” : The International Council of
Sea Exploration has come forward Avith pro-
posals to restrict the wholesale slaughter of
Avhales in the Antarctic and elseAvkere. For
years past the Norwegians have been .making
the pace a welter; their catches have been
enormous. And there are ominous signs of
a falling-off in the whale population, for,
though the seas are wide, the females bear
only one calf at a time, and—as in the case of
their fellow mammals, the elephants —inter-
vals are long. Something in the nature of a
limited catch or a long close season is sought.
But this Avould mean patrol ships to prevent
poaching—and who’s to pay?
;j; * X *
“Dilly Dally”: No. 19 Swanston-street,
Melbourne, occupied for many years by a
pork butcher, has been bought and subdi-
vided. One part has been let at £80 a week;
for another, with a frontage of.8ft. 9in., the
tenant pays £58 a Aveek. This is thougnt
to be the highest Melbourne shop-rent ever
paid in proportion to spaee.
* x * *
“Gelt”: It is not so much the use of sub-
stitutes that has queered the copra market
as the, merging of European margarine and
soap manufacturers, the news of which struck
terror into the heart of the cocoanut planter.
The only things that will alleviate the posi-
tion noAV in the Islands are cheaper and
increased production and co-operation
amongst the traders. Lowering the import
duties on plantation requisites and decreas-
ing the export duty on copra would help, but
getting the island traders to follow the
example of the more astute European buyers
bv combining will be another nutter. . .Co-
operation amongst whites in the Islands is
practically unknown.


ft
s
mm
Sh i>t e
°l<in ley
on
e * he
to n “ o er l
-Mr,*%•><> S‘ if M
■ S ■ HlTc'Z
“I use *sf*'’ nU for "my"**’*”
« ““SJ KINGSLEY.
Ai
N'
AH you have to do is to collect the wrappers
from Rexona Soap until you have 24, and for-
ward them to Rexona Proprietary Limited,
Sydney, at any time, before the 31st March,
1930, and a pair of these beautiful Silk Stock-
ings will be sent to you by return post.
Remember to mention the size and shade you
desire, and don’t forget to enclose your name
and address.
/
/
R 52713
The purity and wonderful medicated properties of
Rexona Soap give a tone and charm to the com-
plexion which amounts to nothing less than skin
beauty. Beautiful women—proud mothers—beauties
of the stage and screen—all write and pay tribute to
Rexona Soap and give it credit for what it has done
and what it is doing for them. To give everyone
an opportunity of finding out how true this is a
pair of pure silk stockings is offered free. It’s an
amazing offer—charm through skin beauty and skin
health—added charm to the ensemble with sheer
silk stockings. Start now and use Rexona Soap-
watch your skin gradually attain beauty with a
healthy tone, and get a pair of silk stockings ab-
solutely free for the further enhancement of that
real charm.
Price 1/- per tablet .
\vO se
Ctf S
pvt
of^ eV
rfo°
fl*v
e*<*
\>d°*
BtV»


/
HOW refreshing you will find
the morning glass of Eno s
‘ ‘ Fruit Salt. ” Its bubbling, sparkling
effervescence stimulates the palate,
and puts you in tune for the day s
activities. But Eno does much more
than this. It keeps you in buoyant
health and spirits all day long.
For Eno promotes that perfect inner
cleanliness on which really good
health depends. It gently yet
thoroughly eliminates from the
system the waste and poisons of
yesterday. It keeps the blood-
stream clean and vigorous. Eno
contains no purgative salts, so that
its regular use does not form an
indispensable habit. Follow the
lead of countless healthy people all
over the world-—start your day
with a glass of water sparkling with
a dash of Eno’s “Fruit Salt.”
In two sizes at chemists and stores
I I
i /
I
I i
' I
a •
0 I
I o
T
/ /°
£ s*^
'O /
.A . /
TX
S /
r
'X
fo
0/
*V
r
~s
-x
Esaa
t c >
O
=>
*>*
X
X
NX
«K
-*vS>
s-*m*r*
2x
Sg?
rx
x
X
ta
W>
ENOS
FRUIT SALT
M
PREPARED ONLY BY J. C. ENO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sales Agents: THE BRITISH HAROLD F. RITCHIE 6t CO. LTD. SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Offices
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Pisk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
Delightful!
Cool!
Best
R®B
lager
Non. fuatf*
ma.
I WM
mm
Refreshing!
There’s cheering and quenching
satisjaction in every bottle oj
RB
GENUINE LAGER.
and
DA
DINNER ALE.
'sWm
lyMMm
Victoria Racing Club
Flemington.
CUP WEEK.
DERBY DAY ........ 2nd NOVEMBER
CUR DAY sth NOVEMBER
OAKS DAY 7th NOVEMBER
STEEPLECHASE DAY 9th NOVEMBER
STAKES WILL AMOUNT TO £43,000.
£lO,OOO added to Melbourne Cup and
Gold Cup 'of 200 sovs.
£5OOO added to the Derby.
ARTHUR V. KEWNEY, Secretary.
If any illustration in r ±hiE Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
High Syce landed the Caulfield Cup more
brilliantly than his successes in previous
races had led people to expect. In the
October Stakes and Caulfield Stakes he got
into grave difficulties. On Saturday- the
chestnut tore past the grandstand, with
three-fourths of the field behind him; he
had a smooth passage throughout. Had the
horse from Queensland been in any other
stable than that.of .Jack Holt or ridden by
a jockey Jess blessed with good fortune than
Billy Duncan, punters would have rejected
the very short odds on offer. From the
standpoint of public form, High Syce wasn’t
a 2-to-l chance; but he won, and'what is
the use of arguing V The Queensland-bred
prad differs widely in temperament from
Holt’s other Caulfield Cup victors—Euryth-
mic (1920) and Maple (1928). lie 'has
boundless courage, but may be classed as a
rather lazy galloper. Mrs. Buxton paid 4000
guineas for him, and he has brought the
lady £7145 in stake-money.
With a clear run Paquito must have been
dangerous. How he came to be on the
shoulder of the leaders as they rounded for
home, after being second last at one stage,
was beyond comprehension. The Maori-
lander must be a horse and a half to accom-
plish what he did. In 1913 Sol Green and
other bookmakers of the period laid Fred
Merton, of Merton’s Reward (W.A.) cele-
brity, exceptional odds to ensure Aurifer
opposing Anna Carlovna in the Caulfield
Cup. This brought about the downfall of
Eric Connolly’s mare, which had been backed
for a fabulous sum by the owner. Paquito’s
presence in this year’s field was similarly,
contrived, but 11. A. Knight must now re-
gret not having sent the gelding home direct
from Randwick.
On Cup eve those associated with Amounis
could have obtained 25 to 1 about his chanCe.
Thev waited until absolutely sure that the
going would be fine. The rush for Amounis
Avas the outstanding feature of the course
wagering; he shortened to 12 to 1. Frank
McGrath pronounced the old felloAV to be
very fit, and to have a good chance; how-
ever, the Sydney trainer regarded Taisho as
the logical winner. Amounis found his legs-
slowly, but crept up into fifth at the half-;
mile. He came down the straight at a terrid
fic bat, and finished only tAvo lengths behind
I ligh Syce, on Avhom Duncan never had let
up. The time, 2min. 304 sec., was
faster than that of Lucknow in 1919 and
equalled Whittier’s time three years later,
it verges closely on the Australasian record,
for the distance. Taisho was narrowly de-
prived of third honors by Prince Viol, who
had assisted him in making the pace. Prince
Viol, when distressed, swerved towards
Taisho (on the rails) and hampered that
wry promising three-year-old, who had won
at w.f.a. on the Wednesday. Black Duchess
and Perception knocked up a long Avay from
home. Perception has been very inju-
diciously “placed.”
Backed from 6 to 4 to evens, First Legion
•Inly came to light in the Gwyn Nursery.
The Legionnaire colt is a top-notcher; lie
carried 91b. more than he Avon with on the
previous Wednesday. Fighting Top (by Top
Gallant) tired after scampering for five fur-
longs like a scalded cat; then First Legion
ran over the leaders and won handsomely
from Meadow Lea (by the Epsom Handicap
winner, Blackadder) * and Debenture (by
Paper Money). Victoria possesses many
speedy juveniles this season. Green Wave
lias done best in public, but Forfeit (Paper
Money—Procrastinate), trained by S. W.
Biggins for a suburban boniface, is reputed
to be a marvel. She was accepted for twice
at Caulfield without starting. The filly is
either under a physical cloud or is being
reserved for the Maribyrnong Plate.
• •
In 1883 Chris Moore landed the Caulfield
Gup on Little Jack. Moore, now a trainer,
pulled off a double for John Wren at the
V.A.T.U. reunion with Silent Quest and
Galenist, each piloted by the Sydney light-
weight, Cook. Sent out at 7to 1, Galenist
gave Limber Up a handsome drubbing in the
Bur wood Handicap; Limber’Up shared fav-
oritism with Ithuriel and Camargo. Camargo
ran out wide at the straight entrance when
in control. In politics and racing Wren is
doing well these days.
’•• • • :
Gilt Edge (Duncan) was a hot pot for the
Windsor Handicap, but did not get a favor-
able passage and missed being in the money.
He may do better in the Cantala Stakes. His
trainer, Jim Scobie, owns the winner,
Brockwood (14 to 1). whom he leased to
George Chandler. . Scobie came into the pos-
session of Brockwood under a clause in the
will of the late Rupert Clarke; the nag is
a five-year-old chestnut gelding by The
Welkin—Wilga. "
' • • • • -
Caulfield is beginning to threaten Rand-
wick figures. The attendance on Saturday
was just on 66.000.
CAR ECONOMY.
THE ONLOOKER: "Hold on, Jock; that'S not where you put the oil.”
THE McTAVISH: "Aye, but they're Tellin' me this car wall [?]ang five hundher mile on
a gallon o' oil, an’ nae mair than thir-rly on a gallon o' petrol."
For Moonee Valley on Saturday:—
W. S. Cox Plate: Phar Lap; next, Night-
march.
Moonee Valley Cup: Second Wind; next,
Black Duchess. ’
* * *
City Tattersall’s meeting, which follows
the A.J.C. spring events at Randwick, again
lived up to its reputation of being a book-
makers’ benefit. Nut Cup (4 to 1 for the
Club Welter) was the only favorite to break
the monotony of outsiders’ victories on
Saturday, and immediate followers of
Booth’s stable collected a good part of the
moneys, small punters having grown tired
of backing the brute owing to liis misbe-
havior at the barrier. The Hurdle Race
(Avon by Rearguard, 12 to 1), the first-
first division of the Novice Handicap
(Zetheus, 20 to 1), the second division (The
Quaker, 10 to 1) and City Tatt.’s Handicap
(Papatu, 12 to 1) were very bad races for
the public. Zetheus and Nut Cup were rid-
den by Cracknel!
The Flying Handicap provided the best
finish of the day. Gay Ballerina was favo-
rite a.t fives. Margarethal and Cleave being
at sixes, Aussie and Venetian Lady at
sevens, Beckwith at eights and Bonnie
Marjorie at tens. Cleave showed a burst
of pace which augurs -well for her success
later on, but, tiring (apparently she needed
a race), she was caught and passed by Mar-
garethal, who had to exert herself to the
utmost to beat Gay Ballerina. The judge
decided in favor of the older mare by a neck,
Gay Ballerina being two or three lengths in
front of Bonnie Marjorie, who was drawn
out Avide. They ran the six furlongs in
lmin. 12Isec.
Another cartload of money was lost on
Aussie, who has been a very expensive horse
to Sydney backers. Their continued devo-
tion to him is a marvel in view of his poor
form. Faith in Papatu, Aussie’s stable-com-
panion—-both are owned and trained by
George Paul —would have been better re-
warded. Neglected by all save a few speckers,
Papatu made every post a winner in the
City Tatt.’s Handicap, Stormy (6 to 3.) and
Donald (10 to 1) being next in the proces-
sion at the finish, with John Buchan fourth.
The favorites. Don Moon and Spearman,
ran badly. Papatu is an aged gelding by
Romeo —Gambode; he was ridden by Parr.
* * * *
“Ike O’Rook”: As a result of the short-
age in punting casn, the mugs are not com-
ing forward with the old joyous abandon.
To meet the situation many members of the
Randwick ring have had to condescend to
methods which they Avould have flouted a
year or so ago. To have tried to place a
ten-bob bet in Randwick paddock with one
of the leviathans then Avould have been
risking insult in addition to an emphatic
refusal to take confetti. True, one greatly
daring individual would lay ’em to 55., but it
was done surreptitiously, as it were. Now
there is not a bagman in the paddock Avho
will not welcome the once-despised ten bob,
and at least a score are competing for
dollar bets.
For Moorefield on Saturday:—
Ivogarah Stakes: Kala Moti; next, Lady
Mosca.
Three- and Four-year-old Handicap : Gold-
miner ; next, Sear.
Moorefield Mile: Sion ; next, Gesto.
Moorefield Handicap: Spearsliot; next.
Western Lass.
Flying Welter: Factor; next, Black
Douglas.
“Tliormanby”: Whatever the misfortunes
of the earlier part of the season, English
bookmakers lely on the two great autumn
handicaps, the Cesarewitch and the Cam-
bridgeshire, to fill the hive with honey for
the winter. This year’s Cesarewitch has
justified their faith; it was won by a 30-to-l
shot, West Wicklow, carrying 7st. 61b. Irish-
bred, like the Derby and Leger winner Trigo,
West Wicklow is a five-year-old gelding by
Tangier from Bachelor’s Dream, by Tredcn-
nis. His best performance prior to his
recent win Avas fourth place in the same
event last year.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Jack Haines (list. regarded by
some as the best Australian middleweight
since Les Darcy, scored a clear-cut win over
Benjamin Marshall (lOst. 71b.) at Sydney
Stadium. Marshall was expected to make
a good showing, and despite the fact that
a short right to the jaw dropped him for
three at the end of the first round, looked
like doing so. The end came very suddenly
half-way through the second, when a beau-
tifully-timed left hook to the jaw dropped
the Englishman like a log.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: Frank (“Paddy”) Slavin,
dead in Vancouver at 68, was one of the
finest fighting boxers Australia has pro-
duced. A New South Walshman, he first
came into prominence as a bare-knuckle
exponent on the Towers when that great
goldfield was in its heydey. Paddy was a
blacksmith at the Black Jack, a few miles
out of the Towers proper, and on pay Satur-
days was accustomed to take on all and
sundry in a big bark hut near the mine,
backing himself to administer the k.o. inside
five rounds. Some smarties brought up a
good sort of professional from Sydney, and,
posing as a miner, this lad went up against
Paddy in the bark hut. A whisper got about,
and the Black Jack money was covered in
no time by the importee’s backers, most of
whom came from the near-by town. At
the first shape up, Paddy hit his man so hard
that he went clean through the bark wall
behind him; and that was that. In after
years, doubters of the legend were always
shown the bare patch in the grass near the
Black Jack poppet heads where the bark hut
once stood.
As far as “straight” wrestling was con-
cerned John Pesek (13st. 91b.) found it hard
to go slow enough for Jim Browning (36st.
lib.) at Melbourne on Saturday night. In
the fifth round Browning (rather on the cor-
pulent side) gave John an extra-hard dig in
the pantry and was disqualified. He was
palpably tiring at the time. Browning re-
sorted to an old dodge of Billy Edwards,
refusing to leave the ring until prevailed
upon ; but apparently even this time-honored
stunt has lost its appeal.
The Ins and Outs
“Swan”: Westralian Cricket Association
lias followed the N.S.W. example of allotting
eight instead of six for a hit over the fence,
with the same idea of “brightening cricket."
The new notion has been in force in Sydney
grade cricket for several matches now, and
the deuce a bit of brightening has there been.
* * * =:=
“Aigburth”: Australia’s old friend Plum
Warner has recently issued an impassioned
appeal to Australian cricketers: to adopt the
wider wicket, which has evidently come to
stay in English county cricket. Plum is
satisfied that one experiment would be con-
vincing and that the use of the wider target
would then be- extended to the matches
between English and Australian tennis,
including the Tests. He is still in hopes
that the Australian Board of Control will
agree to this for the coming tour of England,
especially since the South Africans have
fallen into line. It is too late, now. to
introduce the new idea to Australian cricket
this season, and the tourists can hardly be
expected to try it in England without having
had previous experience.
(Continued on page 41.)
The Kangaroos were on top in last week’s
matches in England, but by narrow margins.
Leigh was leading 13-0 20 minutes before
time, when the visitors bolted and piled on
points to win, 19-16. Barrow,- another Lan-
cashire club, was an equallytough proposi-
tion, the tourists winning a hard game by
13-10.
“Headingley”: The Australian League
footballers in. England are getting more than
the usual issue of casualties. This is only
to be expected in the professional game,
wherein the-policy of “stopping” a danger-
ous opponent at all costs is far more pre-
valent than it is in Union or Soccer football
—though the practice is not unknown in
either. ' The Northern • Union professional
clubs are limited liability companies. Share-
holders ■ w T ant dividends, and expect their
paid employees to earn them by winning
matches somehow or other. The employees
get “extra money” for wins, with bonuses
for outstanding success. Human nature being
what ibis, the placers go all out for victory,
and, in the- circumstances, it is difficult
to blame them.
“Stand Off”: The International Rugby
Board has at last made up its mind that
the player--writer is overdue for the toma-
hawk. In future, no member of a British
team on tour or at home is to be permitted
to write football'matter for the press. Even
more significant is the announcement that no
member of the Rugby Union executive may
in future write football matter and retain
his position. This is in keeping with the best
traditions of the Rugby Union, even if one or
two famous names vanish from the news-
paper columns or from the list of the amateur
organisation’s controllers.
TURF MARKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
'That air of guile so often associated with jockeys.”
—Sun.
Hope gleams within'the punter’s eyes
Save when they’re'sicklied,o’er by doubt;
A furtive, like-to-know-you guise
Proclaims the urger and the tout.
Damsels and dames in exquisite
Attire as exquisitely smile;
And on the jockey’s face is writ
Indelibly Ills calling’s guile.
The tipsters, visages disclose
Inscrutable as those of owls,
The bulging bags of strident Mos,
Their jewelled paws and flinty jowls
Acquisitiveness indicate,
The will and skill to make a pile;
And jocks., it seems, must radiate,
As ’(were congenitally,'guile.
The wisdom of the ultra-wise
Is in the trainer’s wary glance;
An aura hangs around the “sties”
Of ceaseless, lynxlike vigilance.
How many certs, astray must go!,
How many causes! Pause awhile,
Punter, and add to those you know
The jockey’s immemorial guile.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


03
r
I
& c
rs
m
\
7
e^SV;
)
33 C
*x
m+mZ
c
m
WM
-,LSJ
SSS«:
iwasr.
ps?
*■'
O
M
C/5
Co
Ufc
nr**"*
tUSUBSs
vj#
Suitings
for
h
CHRISTMAS is Not Far Off!
Here is an opportunity to Save on Your XMAS
Suit.
This new purchase comprises high-grade pure all-
wool Worsteds, in the latest weaves, many ideally
suited for the warm months ahead. Latest shades
of new Fawns, new Blues, Browns, Greys, Navys,
Blue-Greys, also pure Wool Indigo Serges.
Usually £B/8/- Value
NOW
s'l®'6
to
measure.
Dear Sirs, —
Please forward me by return of mail, patterns
of the £5/16/6. Tailoring Special Offer, as featured
here.
Name
Desk “R,”
Murdoch’s Ltd.,
Park St., SYDNEY.
-and 35/- HATS
to Clear at. .
d
We have limited stocks of the finest quality fur
Felt Hats for men. Made by the world’s best
makers. Popular models and in many pleasing
colours.
INITIALS STAMPED FREE!
Postage Paid to your Door. When ordering, kindly address all
letters to Desk “R.”
€
iu
ran
'PARK&GEORGE streets
‘The World’s Largest Men’s and Boys’ Wear Store.”
■■m
m
l
*
The New
Super-Jixibc Battery
FVERY motorist should see the new Super-Exide
Battery at once. He should have explained to him
the remarkable efficiency and economy of the
DOUBLE SEPARATORS—the principle that has
advanced battery construction another tremendous stride.
He should inquire, also, about the Plates, the Steel Wire
Handle, the Sealing Nut, the Filling Plug, the Hard
Rubber Case, tested to withstand 20,000 volts, the Extra
Heavy Duty Connectors, and the Individual Cell Covers.
Ask your Service Station for
important New Exide Prices.
ď
for Car Starting
and Lighting
“The Long Life Battery”
Advertisement of E. H. Sharpe, reptg. Exide Batteries, 11c Castlereagh St., Sydney
where you want ft
and when you want it.
Send your Water Supply problems to our Pump Expert. He
will, without obligation, advise how pumps can help you.
582-92 Collins Street, Melbourne. 116-30 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
“ACME”
Low Down
Double Acting Lift and
Force Pump, cylinder 5
x 5, 1600 gal. per hour.
Splendid for all-round
use. Cog-gear renders
operation easy. Fitted
for 2in. pipes.
SEMI-
ROTARY
Besides being useful
generally, these
pumps are specially
adapted for oils,
petrol, etc. For -Mu.
pipe, 25/- Other
sizes up to
2in. avail-
able.
“AJAX”
Low Down
D o u b 1 e-acting.
-Made for l£in.
pipes. Capacity 700
gal. per hour. Cog-
g e a r facilitates
operation. All
valves easily
reached.
n
■ i -
“MACSON”
“ROTEX”
£
A Power Rotary Force
Pump, designed for the
rapid elevation of
liquids. For
pipe, £6/107-
Other sizes on appli-
cation.
“RAPID”
Centrifugal
Where a large quantity
of water is required at low
pressure, our Rapid Centri-
fugal Pumps (illustrated at
top) are unequalled. Of
a modern efficient design,
“Rapid Pumps” are made
in single or multi stages.
lin. single stage £4/10/-
lin. two stage .... £7
Particulars of others on
application.
“Macson” Double-act-
ing Piston Pumps are
ideal for general pump-
ing work. £IT will
buy a “Macson” for
liin. pipes, and cap-
able of giving 360 gal.
per hour. See catalogue
for other sizes.
ALL PRICES F.O.R. MELBOURNE.
Send for our Latest General Catalogue.


13q
POST FREE.
exclusive to macnaughts
The right type of tennis
shoes— the new “Hard-
court.” Every sole guaran-
teed. Strong, white duck
upper. Sizes, s’s to i o’s.
Half-sizes stocked. Speci-
ally priced.
."Hlacnaught
Shoe Stores Gtdj.
đ
MAIL ORDERS 135 KING STREET
Winchester Rifle, Model 56.
22-Cal. Long Rifle only
Handles well
and
Shoots well.
■ '
The Rifle
for Small Game
Price, £5. Post free to all parts of
Australia.
The Gun House,
COWLES DUNN,
453 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Catalogue B.
7(
Bert *. I like your hor&e,Gert.
GjEET , .*Ves, bUT HES OLD
ft
Bert; What makes you tvunk.
that ? w
QBRT ‘/VIELL, HES A CHESTNUT,
IS NT HE 2"
The Ins and Outs
“Tenth Slip”: C. G. Macartney has been
batting so well in Sydney club cricket this
season, for the most part on bowlers’ wickets,
that strong efforts have been made to induce
him to reconsider his decision to keep out
of first-class cricket. On present form, not
only his batting but his bowling would be
an asset to the next team for England. How-
ever, there are other fish to fry, and though
he will tour England with the next Aus-
tralian contingent, it will be as a special
correspondent for the, Sydney Evening News
and affiliated publications. He is one of the
very few first-class cricketers who have taken
on journalism as a side-line to show any signs
of literary capacity.
* if # *
“Balmain” : To N.S.W. cricketers the suc-
cess of Archie Jackson in the early matches
of the season is particularly reassuring,
since, batting on typical English wet-weather
pitches, the youngster has scored 161. 99
n.o. and 67 in three consecutive innings. This
should dispose of the suggestion that he is
a fair-weather batsman, and gives promise for
the future in England next year. No other
Sydney batsman save Macartney has done
so well under the conditions.
* * * *
“Rottnest” : Cricket in Westralia gets little
chance to develop, about the only interlude
in the general monotony of club competitions
being the going and coming of English teams.
Gilligan’s side will improve matters by
showing in Perth for a brief space next
month, while the South Melbourne C.C. will
visit Perth for a couple of matches late in
December. Westralians will also be on tour,
coming as far as Melbourne only. A pity
the vast distances keep the Gropers out of
the Sheffield Shield ring. Perhaps the in-
stitution of the Pertb-Brisbane aei’ial pas-
senger service will end that.
:!: * * *
“W. G. Snort”: A curious cricket point
cropped up in a Sydney grade match between
Mosman and Balmain recently. Mosman
appealed against the light at 5.30 —the
fixed time for drawing stumps is 6 p.m.—
and the appeal having been allowed, the
umpires drew the stumps and carried them
off the field. Arthur Mailey, Balmain’s
skipper, protested on the ground that the umps.
had no right to draw the stumps before the
set time, since the light might improve. The
umps. agreed, and put the pegs back in the
ground again. A little later they decided
that conditions were too bad to continue
play, and called it a day. This time they
left the stumps in the ground. Mailey was
right, of course,- but some of the onlookers,
who could not understand what was going
on, voiced their disapproval in the usual
Birchgrove manner.
* if # *
“H'btham”: Hendry has transferred to
Richmond. He has played some good knocks
for M.C.C. and Victoria, and at least one
century stands to his credit against Chap-
man’s team, a fine 112 in the second innings
of the second Test at Sydney, after he had
got 37 in the first. He failed to keep this up.
and was dropped in the later games. If
Hendry can reproduce his form of a couple
of years ago this season, there are less un-
likely things than a trip to England for him,
for his slip fielding is still good, and he is
a reliable change bowler.
$ $ $ . $
“Per Jong”: At long last the South Afri-
can Cricket Association has resolved to
abolish the matting wicket in the main
centres and substitute turf. There should
be no trouble with turf wickets in Cape-
town and Durban, where there is a moist
climate and a good rainfall. Indeed, there
have been grass wickets at both places for
years, though, curiously enough, the Afrikan-
ders preferred to spread matting on top of
the turf. On the High Veld, 6000 feet up,
with a limited seasonal rainfall, the difficul-
ties are greater. Johannesburg, with the vast
clay area of the Wanderers’ ground to turf,
has a particularly tough job in hand, and
one the cost of which should give even the
Rand magnates reason for reflection.
Racquet and Bawl
“Centre Court” : While some of the Aus-
tralian tennis bodies are seeking to ban
the mingling of professional and amateur
players, the English Lawn Tennis Asso-
ciation is considering a movement to en-
courage it. It has been suggested that an
annual open championship on the lines of
the famous golf fixture be held, and the
matter is to be discussed at the next meet-
ing of the International Federation. It cer-
tainly seems anomalous that the amateur
golfer and cricketer may foregather, cheek
by jowl, with the professionals of their kind
and remain uncontaminated in public
opinion, while to do so in tennis invites
casting into outer darkness.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: The American tennis authori-
ties are in a quandary over the case of
Elizabeth Ryan. She was born in America, but
has spent most of her tennis-playing lire in
Britain. She is not to play for Britain, and
though she played for IJ.S.A. at Wimbledon
in 1926, the American panjandrums have now
decided that her American domicile is not
sufficient to permit her to appear again as
a representative of the Stai’s and Stripes.
As far as tennis is concerned, the great
doubles player is a girl without a country,
and under the rules of international tennis
even the taking out of naturalisation papers
will not remedy matters.
H? & #
“Cut Shot”: The action of the N.S.W.
tennis panjandrums in forbidding members of
affiliated clubs to take part in exhibitions
with professionals (B. 16/10/’29) is the
more amazing since the worshipful indivi-
duals have themselves obtained permission
from the Federal authority for an exhibition
match between ,T. O. Anderson and Jack
Crawford in Sydney just before Christmas.
Apparently the situation seems to have
arisen from the N.S.W. body’s firm convic-
tion that the only allowable exhibitions be-
tween amateurs and pros, are those which
bring the cash into its own coffers. The
idea that a private individual should benefit
in pocket from sucli displays has evidently
wrung its- withers.
if if if *
“Ibn el Issar”: How far the modern Turk
has progressed from the days of the Seljuk
sultans is seen in the fact that he is laying
down the yataghan and bowstring to take up
the tennis racket. The first tennis club was
started in Constantinople as long ago as
1912. but the game found little favor among
people clothed from neck to toe in the flowing
galabieh. When Kemal put the nation in
trousers a change came o’er the scene. Dur-
ing the last four years the game has been
spreading rapidly, and the day is in sight
when the Turk and the Australian may meet
on new battlefields —those of the Davis Cup.
The Watermen
“Toowong Reach” : The'Queensland rowing
season lias been officially opened with the
Brisbane River regatta. The northern-
ers, having plenty of strong clubs out-
side the metropolis, follow the sporting
custom of deciding the championships of the
various rivers on the east coast —Mary,
Burnett and Fitzroy, in addition to Brisbane
—and then pitting the winners in these events
against each other in a spin for the State
title. Unfortunately, no Queensland crews
will be going to Henley-on-Yarra this year,
and it is doubtful if a Queensland crew will
be boated for the King’s Cup.
* * *
“Blade” : Some of these athletic champions
can put a prima donna to shame in the matter
of farewell appearances. Take the Mosman
(N.S.W.) crew, which, after years of supre-
macy in Sydney rowing, won the Challenge
Eights at Henley-on Yarra, and topped off
by taking the inter-State championship and
the King’s Cup at Perth. It was then broad-
cast that the invineibles were singing their
nunc dimittis as oarsmen and leaving for
ever the stage they had adorned so long.
After a lot of regret and eulogistic reference
the- public accepted the blow in a spirit of
becoming resignation. This has been rudely
shattered now by the announcement that the
crew has decided to row in the leading
regattas and the State championships this
season.
* * *
“Murkah”: Syncopated rowing was tried
on Albert Park (Vic.) lake over 20 years
ago (B. 9/10/’29). The idea was for the
men to row in tw T o divisions, a half rev., so
to speak, behind each other. The inventor
claimed that the system would minimise the
loss of energy at the swing, and that this
fact, coupled with the advantage of practi-
cally continuous propulsion, would enable an
average crew to beat a ship-load of Bill
Beaches rowing the old way. The idea
worked better on paper than it did on the
lake.
* * * *
“H’otliam”: Some time ago the Victorian
rowing authorities decided to test the possi-
bilities of Lake Colac as a venue for cham-
pionships, and it was resolved to stage the
four-oar event there. The Yarra lovers on the
executive fought the proposal hard, however,
and the change to Colac has only now been
confirmed. There is no doubt that in these
days of big entries the Yarra is out of date
for serious rowing. It is too narrow for
more than a limited number of crews at a
time, while in windy weather the luck of the
draw for position is an important factor.
Colac provides a straight stretch, and when
there is any wind no one is favored, while
there is room for twenty eights and more
abreast.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Glenelg”: The South Australian profes-
sional golf championship was played on the
Seaton course last week, and ended in a
win for the Marino Club professional, Fer-
gus McMahon, the runner-up being Rufus
Stewart, Australian professional champion.
The winner’s aggregate for the 72 holes was
296, or a little better than 4} per hole. His
best round was the first, in which he returned
a card of 70.
* if =!= *
“Delia” : Two curious golf shots have been
chronicled recently. One was in Sydney,
where a player forcing a ball out of a divot
hole had his glasses smashed by the straight-
uprising pill. The other comes from America,
where a player did a 405 yards hole in one.
The ball hit a concrete road and hopped on
top of a moving motor-car hood, rolling off
the back. As it fell, a spinning hind wheel
caught it and flung it over a bunker on to
the green, whence it took refuge in the hole.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: Harry Vardon, greatest and
most picturesque of professional golfers not
even excepting Walter Hagen, scouts the
idea that present-day golfers have evolved
methods superior to those of the champions
of the past. He points out that much of
Bobby Jones’s success is due to his adherence
to old-fashioned methods, including the true
swing as opposed to the snappy hit so
popular with the U.S. school. No fad or
fashion can alter the principle of ballistics,
and that is what the propulsion of a golf
ball comes to when all is said and done.
* * -4? *
“Baffy”: The English women’s golf champ-
ionship, played at Broadstone the other day,
was won by tlie 1926 championette Molly
Gourlay, who downed Diana Fisher 6 and 5
in the 36 holes final. Joyce Wethered, who
made such a sensational comeback last year
to beat American Glenna Collett, went out
in the intermediate rounds. Another women's
event for the Tasmanian title, played at
Launceston, went to Miss E. Iteid, who
finished 2 up and 1 on Miss Sale. The winner
was one of the 16 who qualified for the
finals of the Australian women's champion-
ship at Adelaide recently.
* if * *
“The McHaggis” : The grip golf gets on
its victims has again been illustrated by a
minor tragedy in England. A player in the
quarter finals of the women’s golf champ-
ionship was also booked to act as brides-
maid at her sister’s wedding the same
morning. Arranging with her opponent to
start early, she ordered a ’plane to call at
the links and pick her up after the game.
Not only did she miss the wedding because
the wind was too strong for the ’plane to
land, but she lost the match, a much more
unfortunate happening, because her opponent
was like the wind.
**’ * *
“Ela” : Port Moresby is steeling , itself to
cqmrnit golf. The links at Koncaobu are
nearing completion, and worried individuals
who have mastered half a dozen Papuan
dialects are racking their aching brains in an
attempt to overcome the language _of the
Royal and Antient. The early mornings see
enthusiasts out on the most convenient open
spaces practising the various shots and the
appropriate expressions. Further, the stores
have blossomed out in an efflorescence of golf
bags and clubs. It only remains for a satur-
nine individual with a name beginning with
“Mac” to climb out of the B.P. boat from
the south some fine morning and announce
that he is prepared to give lessons for a
eonseederation.
* * * *
“Taihoa”: It is curious that the Maori,
with his aptitude for many games, ('speci-
ally Rugby football, should never have done
much in golf, one for which he would seem
to be particularly suited. Kapi Tarehn. who
figured in the recent Maoriland champion-
ships, is one of the exceptions, and made a
good showing, though his work on the greens
let him down. In the foursomes lie con-
sistently outdrove his partner Moss, the ex-
professional and open champion of M.L.,
from the tee.
* * * *
“Carnoustie”: Australia, which pays a lot
of attention to coaching its younger fry in
cricket and football, is curiously remiss in
the matter of golf. Apart from an annual
match for caddies., usually a club affair, no
one seems to take any interest in teaching
the young idea how to swing. In Britain they
do things more thoroughly. They have a
boys’ annual championship, and this is pre-
ceded by an international competition. To
show the quality of these lads it is enough
to say that the captain of the Scottish team,
J. D. Stevenson, is a scratch player at
Troon, one of the strongest clubs in Scot-
land. The English skipper, another 17-year
older, plays for Walsall club, which has a
standard scratch of 73. lie has a round.of
6S to his credit.
The National Rifle Association’s King’s
Prize, shot off at Anzac Range (N.S.W.)
last week, was won by F. Nelson, of Con-
cord, with 338 points out of a possible 355.
Considering that the three stages were fired
under varying conditions of wind and
weather, the performance was a remarkable
one. Another N.S.W. shot, F. Smith, of the
Rail and Tram Club, was second with 335,
and a Queenslander, F. Stafford, third with
334.
(Continued on next page A


The centre of Queens/onc/s
’distinpu/stiect Soc/o/ Li/e.
<s£
d
motel
Co RDTCC
BRISBANE
Magnificent Bai i-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
.Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Lines.
AeS 'S’e
V» tVV A <,l
vs
3 i,tee s
\vs
l e t » nA s \jV e
A V. pV eS
rVV r
CitlO
1B ,>-r
so «W*-
C
J c,VV^
, r eTS>
Yl W-** a
Wiii fully inflate the average motor-
tyre in one minute.
THE
RENRUT
QUADRUPLE
HAND PUMP
Price, 45/-
(With Gauge,
5/- extra.)
If unable to obtain,
write to our Factory
Representative;
JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Mel-
bourne, Australia.
y
y
12
SIMONIZ
“The sooner
m SIMONIZ
Your Car
the Better!”
c\Vis£
ists
tor;
DUCO
in its
Beautiful Vivid
Colors Protected
by SIMONIZ
THOUSANDS of wise motor-
ists will tell you to
Simoniz your new car so as
to keep the colors from fading
and make the finish last
longer.
Simoniz, easily applied with a
cloth, provides a beautiful sur-
face of protection that lasts for
many months. Simoniz stands
the wear and tear the finish
usually gets, and keeps it bright
and new.
If your car is dulled and
worn looking, Simoniz
Kleener will quickly and
easily restore the appa-
rently lost lustre and
renew all colors.
INSIST ON SIMONIZ
and always drive a good-looking car.
Sold by all Good Motor Houses, Service Stations-and
Hardware Stores at 2/6 Small Cans; 5/- Large Cans.
In case you cannot obtain locally, see note below.
M
A
D
E
I
N
A
U
S
T
R
A
L
I
A
ď
ANOTHER WONDERFUL
SIMONIZ
PRODUCT—
SIMONIZ
PENETRATING
GRAPHITE
OIL
“LOOSENS THE TIGHTEST NUT.”
Simoniz Penetrating Graphite Oil
instantly
DISSOLVES RUST,
LUBRICATES CAR SPRINGS,
STOPS CHASSIS AND BODY
SQUEAKS,
FREES GUMMED MOTOR VALVES,
LOOSENS ALL TIGHT NUTS
AND BOLTS.
Sold in handy Boz. can with long spout. Price 2/6.
jp YOU CANNOT OBTAIN SIMONIZ PRODUCTS
FROM YOUR USUAL DEALER, SEND POSTAL
NOTE TO
SOLE AUSTRALASIA'S DISTRIBUTORS.
MOTORITE EQUIPMENTS PTY., LTD.,
Carlton, Melbourne.
rnrr CAMPI FQ 0F SIMONIZ AND
rl\tt oHmrLLO kleener on request.
Apply with a cloth
Car and Cycle
“Atlanta”: Women are bulking big in the
motor-car world nowadays. The other day,
Miss Violet Cordery was awarded the Dewar
Trophy for 1929 for the most meritorious
performances of the year in certified trials
held by the R.A.C. The lady has also to
her credit records up to 5000 miles on the
Monthlery track, and one of 11,000 miles in
111 days at the Monza ’drome in Italy,
breaking four world’s and 30-odd Italian
records. As last year she successfully com-
pleted a world’s tour of 12,000 miles, includ-
ing a spin across Australia, it is evident this
Violet is not of the shrinking variety.
* * * *
“Brooklands”: Mrs. R. N. Stewart, who
has built up a great reputation in Europe as
a racing motorist, added to her laurels last
month by cutting out 101.55 miles in the
hour. The lady drove a Morgan-J.A.P. three-
wheeler, and the figures are 5.68 miles better
than the previous record for 1100 c.c. cycle
cars. It is also claimed that she is the first
Avoman driver to exceed the century per hour
rate- —at any rate on Monthlery track, where
the drive was staged.
Hi % He *
“Whizz”: Fired by the success of the
Victorian Light-car Club with its annual
long-distance race for cars on Phillip Island,
Sydney Bicycle and Motor Club intends to
organise a 100 miles handicap in January
next. It will probably take place on
Gerringong Beach, Avhere so many speed
trials haA r e been held in the past.
❖ Jjs Hi Hi
“Davies Park”: In Brisbane the other
day a dirt-track motor-cyclist, Frank
Pearce, got over the mile in 74 l-ssec., break-
ing the world’s record, it is claimed, for a
race of the kind. The time was l-sth of a
sec. better than Frank Arthur’s figures of
last year, which had been equalled by F.
Grosskreutz. Dirt-track records are nebulous
and unstable things, but the performance,
going as it does a fraction over 50 m.p.li.,
was a notable one considering the number of
turns to be negotiated.
He * * *
“Plug”: Something like a reliability per-
formance was the 493 miles road trial from
Brisbane to Lismore (N.S.W.) and back,
held by the Brisbane Motor-cycle Club. The
run was limited to 24 hours, and torrential
rain, flooded creeks and rivers, with mud of
all depths and consistencies, made it memor-
able. Of 17 starters, seven completed the
course without losing a point at the
controls on the return journey, while
mechanical defects at the finish were trivial,
considering. The winner, Harold Wardlow,
riding an Indian Scout, gained full points
for time at controls, and lost only four for
minor machine defects.
* * * *
“Toe-Clip”: Maoriland’s “Round the
Gorges” cycle road-race was held in
ideal weather, and the time for the 100
miles, 4hr. 54min. 15sec., was a record for
the event. The course, which is roughly
circular, is beautifully roaded, and with the
H. MARSHALL, the Westralian cyclist,
who has been adjudged winner of the
Warrnambool-Melboume road race after
disqualification.
exception of a few miles of downs nearly
level. The route lies through the Waima-
kariri Gorge, where the prevailing wind
blows 50 m.p.h. The winner was N. Berry,
off the 24min. mark.
Miscellaneous
“Bumpkin”: Two birds belonging to the
Vic. Homing Association put up an astonish-
ing performance recently. Members of the
association had gone to Narrandera
(N.S.W.), where they were to release eight
pigeons at half-past nine in the morning.
Two of the birds were in the traps by eleven,
which worked out at a speed of two miles a
minute. It transpired that a thief at Nar-
randera had seen an opportunity for adding
pigeon-pie to the domestic menu the previous
evening, and was making off with eight of
the birds when he was spotted. H’e released
two, which thus had a 12 hours’ start of
their competitors.
* =!: * *
“Tassel Gentle”: The mediaeval sport of
hawking is still pursued in favored corners of
England. In a recent pageant curious spec-
tators who knew nothing of falconry saw
the hawks of Lord Howard de Walden
brought on the scene sitting hooded and
belled on the falconer’s “cages.” They were
unhooded and thrown off to make their strike,
later returning to the falconer’s lure to be
hooded and placed on the cage again. The
sport still lingers where wide expanses of
J.H. DAVIS, handicapper to the V.R.C.,
who is having his hands full at this
juncture.
open country are available, notably in Sussex
and the moors of Northern Lancashire. Aus-
tralians who served with the Light Horse in
Sinai discovered the Bedouin to be. well
acquainted with it.
* * :]: *
“Long Dog” : Live-hare-chasing in N.S.W.
seems to have some fascination, even though
betting has been banned, as in the case of
the almost-forgotten tin robot. The concern
conducting the business on two Sydney
tracks has asked the N.S.W. National
Coursing Association to permit it to be con-
tinued all the year round, the N.C.A. season
for recognised coursing having closed. The
request has been refused, but the die-
hards propose to carry the matter further.
The N.C.A. close season, observed by all
similar bodies the world over, is designed to
protect the hares in the breeding season.
The very idea seems foreign to the hare-
chasing fraternity, a fact which i§, in itself,
sufficient commentary on that fraternity.
* * * *
“Hiram G. Swat”: North America was
rocked so violently the other day that the
flask fell out of its hip pocket. The reason
was not another San Francisco ’quake, but
the scoring of 10 runs in one innings by
the Philadelphia Athletic baseballers against
the Chicago Cubs. Such a happening has
never been known since the first witch was
fried at Salem, and the country, or that part
of it which had ever heard of him, quite for-
got Ramsay MacDonald in its perturbation.
In Australia, the cricket side which scored a
couple of thousand in a Test-match innings—
and it will probably happen yet—would not
cause anything like the same excitement.
* *
“Backwoodsman”: One cannot but sym-
pathise with “Billy the Goose” (B.
10/10/’29) in having his woods called in for
testing. The new “readjustment” rule re-
quires that all bowls must be of the standard
adopted last March, though that does not
mean that all old bowls must be readjusted.
As long as the wood complies with the size
for weight requirement, and shows the mini-
mum bias of the new standard bowl, the
law is not infringed. The trouble is that so
many bowlers do what readjusting they think
necessary themselves, instead of taking their
bowls to the official testers.
Hi £ Hi
“Blue Chalk”: Australian billiard players
are looking forward to the first meeting in
England of Walter Lindrum and Willie
Smith, which is set down for November 25
By that time Walter will have had sever a,
matches with Clark McConachy and othei
cracks, and it is hoped he will have found the
climate more suitable to him than it proved
to brother Fred.
* * * *
“Ride Olf”: Australian polo players, wh >
have been rather in the dumps since the can-
cellation of the American invitation, are to
be invited to send a team over to Maoriland
during the coming season. We had the M.L.
side in Sydney for the first Australasian
Gold Cup some years ago, and the visitors
showed they were far from novices at the
game. Polo first came to M.L. in 1871, by
all accounts, a full year before it was seen
in England, having been introduced by the
late Henry Wharton, after a visit to India.
Curiously, the first games were played in
Nelson, the cradle of Maoriland Rugby
Union football.
* * * *
“Gate”: The financial aspect of the Aus-
tralian Rugby League team in England is
causing the authorities at this end grave con-
cern. Up to the end of the Huddersfield
match the takings were £1215 less than for
the corresponding number of games (10) in
1921-22. The decline is attributed to reduced
prices, but by all accounts League attend-
ances, even at club matches, are falling off
all over the North of England. In play up
to the end of the Huddersfield game, the
tourists had scored 302 points to 95, or 72
tries 43 goals to 17 tries 22 goals.
* * * *
“Splash”: The Australian swimming
championships will be held at Hobart and
Melbourne in February. For the first time
the women’s events will be controlled by the
Australian Swimming Union, and held at
the same meetings as those for the men.
However, the women’s organisations have
sworn that this shall not be, and anyon.
with a knowledge of the weaker sex will
advise the A.S.U. authorities to keep theii
weather eye open. Zorilla, Kojac and Laxifei
have been invited from America, but accep
tance is doubtful.
* * # *
• “Splash”: It is a long time since Aus-
tralia saw anything of the Hawaiian swim-
mers who were once familiar figures in
the championships. Sam Kalianamoku, an
American Olympic representative over the
sprint distances, will be here and anxious to
measure himself with the local talent in
November. Sam, who is a brother of the
famous Duke of that ilk, was last seen in
action here in 1925. As he says he has been
doing the 100 in 54sec. in recent practice
swims, it should need something better than
we have in sight on this side to down him.
Duke’s 53 4-ssec., done in 1915, has not yet
been bettered by an Australian, or anyone
else, for that matter, in this country.
* * * *
“Tuck”: The distinction of being the oldest
open sailing boat on Port Jackson is claimed
for the 10-footer Planet, now with die
Balmain Dinghy Club. She was built 32
years ago, and since then has sailed thou-
sands of miles in races in the hands of dozens
of skippers. Built throughout of Australian
timbers, including a cedar skin, she was a
scratch-marker in her giddy heyday; now
the old girl creaks away off the limit when
the starter gives the word. Otherwise she
is as sound as ever, and will probably outlast
a few more owners before she retires to the
breaker’s slip.
* * * *
“ ’lggins” : Footballers have not a monopoly
of stoush. Brisbane recently witnessed a
brawl between flapper basketballers. Violets
and Rosebuds were playing, and • the game
was rough from the start, several players on
both sides requiring ambulance attention. At
the finish of the match, which was won by
Rosebuds, the mother of a Rosebud girleen
thumped a Violet lassie with her gingham.
Then it became all-in. One Violet knocked
her opponents one by one as they came,
weight, size and everything else given in.
Officials finally stopped the brawl just as it
was getting interesting.
* * * *
“Piscid”: With the opening of the trout
season, many Vic. anglers are also urging
the imposition of a rod license (B. 9/10/’29),
the money to be devoted to restocking streams
and providing more inspectors. These last
are badly needed in this day of motor tour-
ists, when the smallest fish is taken in spite
of game laws. The license scheme has
worked well in M.L., and if a modest sum,
instead of the £3 3s. a rod asked there, were
collected nobody but the pothunter would
complain.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”; The N.S.W. amateur
athletic authorities complain that many mem-
bers of affiliated clubs forget to pay their
subscriptions, with the result that the clubs
cannot cash up their fees to the A.A.A. It
is proposed to debar any unfinancial member
from competing in championships or other
prominent events in future. That is not
likely to stem the evil, for most clubs with
a crack athlete will part up for him.


“Do you remember the time you drank
your wife’s WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS?”
(As good for women as for men.)


55
' .
MORE
or
VST.
jjj
i
Va
<r
mus^iußis
Made in Australia,
than for anyolher make
Remember this when you buy a
tyre. Remember, that in both
tread and tyre body. . . .the two
main parts of a tyre. . . .the
superiority of Goodyear Tyres
can be demonstrated, and is proved
by the fact that more people, the
world over, ride on Goodyear
Tyres than on any other make.
And remember, always, that
Goodyear Tyres and Tubes, made
in Australia, cost no more than
any other make.
ASK YOUR tOODYfAR DIAHR fOR A Df MONSTRAIION ON HIS SUPIRTWISI CORD MACHINE—


92 M&eleay St
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT, SYDNEY
(Located within the City Boundary, ten
rninutes from G.P.0.)
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 160 rooms, is now open, and
features Single Rooms, Double
Rooms with Bath, and two-, three-
and four-room Suites with Bath.
Central Heating, Hot and Cold
Water, ’Phone and Bedside Lamp
in each room. Unsurpassed
Harbor views.
Telephone: F 2 16 1 (8 lines).
Telegraphic Address: “Fifmac,”
Sydney.
Jd Model of Convenience
The position and character of the Wentworth make it ideal for those
who appreciate refined comfort and convenience. Situated high on
Church Hill, away from the noise and dust of the city tramc,
The Wentworth is yet wonderfully handy to all shops and theaties
and the business centre. Many bedrooms have their own private
bathrooms. Each has its private telephone and hot-water service.
The Wentworth is personally conducted by Mrs. Maclurcan, whose
reputation as a caterer and restaurateur is world wide.
Wire or write your reservations.
Ohe Wentworth
Church Hill,
Sydney
r.-f:;-v r.
0» I
111
n
II
IDE
Ms
mm
£
AUSTRALIA'S
HOTEL DE-LUXE
Under
Royal
d
To H.M.
Kin 6
George V
Vintage 1920.
CH AIVIPAGNE
ď
Australasian Agents—
swift & Company Li mitai
SYDNEY.
champagne
It El MS
vgwn—rgZP
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Afrer is—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayser
SHEER
CHIFFON
SILK
STOCKINCS
The pleasant E. J. Carrolls are back in
their home town after an absence of four
years, during which the boys, Texas and
John, have been at Winchester, E.J. busy
running London stage successes, and Mrs.
Carroll enjoying everything but the climate.
Rosemount-avenue, Edgecliff, is the family’s
present address, and here in Colin Rogers’s
house they are repatriating themselves. Syd-
ney’s old friend Cissie Jamieson was one
of the last Australians seen in London. She
had been doing secretarial work for E.. T..
following on a similar job with the Rajah of
Pudukota, which that exiled Indian poten-
tate’s death terminated. The Ranee, at
latest, was among the high-divers and noted
swimmers at Eden Rock, in company with
her small son.
The Carrolls’ great London theatrical suc-
cess was, of course, made through Pauline
Frederick’s conquest of London in “Madame
X.” For the whole season never less than
half a dozen policemen had to be on duty
at tin; stage-door to keep the crowd from
sweeping Pauline off her feet before she
could reach her car. Pauline diets like a
Spartan—which explains why, though a
Avoman of 40, she can skip and swim like a
young boy. She is never tired and her limbs
are firm and resilient. Most of her meals
during the “Madame X” season Avere limited
to scrambled eggs and tomatoes, with coffee
and a cigarette for breakfast. Every iioav
and again she’d have a “birthday” and take
anything, from oysters to ice-cream sundaes.
But next day she’d be back to. scrambled
eggs and tomatoes again. She had to keep
her weight down both for “Madame X” and
the mcmes. Noav she is in the talkies, and
making so much money it sounds criminal
even to whisper it. No longer can she
quote: “An income is Avhat I cannot live
without or within.”
Lace, says Mrs. Carroll, whole dresses of
it, or cape collars, kilted flouncings, deep
cuffs and little coats of it, is worn by every
woman in New York. She herself has an
exquisite example in almond-green silk lace
cut plainly to the hips, from which it breaks
into the cunningly-placed godet and flare of
the moment. With this goes the little long-
sleeved coat of the lace which transforms
the frock from a dinner- to a bridge-frock.
Patou is responsible for a black velvet cloak
with a tall Medici-like collar of skunk, and
another beautiful wrap is of black velvet
with an even more upstanding collar in white
ermine. The collars of all evening wraps
must be exalted. Red is the most favored
of colored shoes in England and New York.
But, of course, weather forbids their appear-
ance for the walk-about. At Ascot, though,
the Australian was amused to find that, in
spite of weather that confined her shivering
in wraps, many an Englishwoman walked
in the flimsiest of organdie ruffles and georg-
ettes. A new feature of the cloth coat is
the scarf made of silky fur and cloth. This
is made in the old handkerchief-square shape,
and worn in two overlapping points at the
back. The underneath half of the square is
of cloth or sometimes of velvet; and one
of these scarves in ermine or chinchilla
showing a deep black cloth or velvet border
can be tremendously attractive. Hats, by
the way, persist in being small. And velvet
is fashioned into everything, even pyjamas.
The Kindergarten Union benefits»by the
best-dressed dance of the week. Mrs. Pat
Levy was the president, Jean Arnott the
secretary and Nell Cobcroft the treasurer,
so with this smart trio to live up to, every
woman zipped on her most joyous garment.
“Black and backless” might have been the
slogan of the night, for the best people wore
both. Lace, that latest word from Paris
and New York, lent its softness (as a matter
of fact, the softness was bought and paid for)
to many a lissome lass. Diet, judging from
the figures, seems still a matter of the daily
dozen cigarettes served with a dash of black
coffee. The curvetting curve remains
severely censored, in spite of Paris Avearing
its ladies plump. Romano’s snug little base-
ment housed the merry-making, and organ-
iser Enid Linton blushed rosy with plea-
sure above her blue laces as she saw the
success her dance had turned into. The
Greuze-like Mrs. Bouverie Anderson Stuart
was dressed to type in lilac tulle spattered
with rosebuds. Black tulle sown with silver
sequins and served with a good 44-hour-week
catch of pearls enwrapped Mrs. Pat Levy's
slimness. Jean Arnott sallied forth in taffeta
black and bouffant. Nell Cobcroft counted
the shekels in a frock of leaf-green satin.
Vivid Marie Ducker, who with Carl Thomas
supplied an exhibition of new dance-steps,
wore Avhite laces, ankle-length and impec-
cable. White satin and camellias were Enid
Hull’s choice, while Lavender Stuart (Mel-
bourne), in backless black velvet, was one
of the night’s smartest. Claire Crowley,
whose engagement to Bill Moses is one of the
moment’s events, was with sister Mrs.
Graham Pratten.
The Rachel Forster Hospital goes 50-50
Avith the Women’s Country Club in the not
contemptible loot of a cabaret held at the
Ambassadors. This was the outsize after-
noon party of the week; in spite of the
porous-plaster weather hundreds of enthu-
siasts turned up, and Leo Carrillo, of “Lom-
bardi, Ltd.,” and popular and plucky Ward, 1
Morgan, avlio were the guests of honor, had
admiring eyes turned on them the whole
afternoon. But were they embarrassed? Not
a bit of it! Leo Carrillo made a speech on
behalf of the hospital, and Warde Morgan
guessed the weight of the hamper and the
number of currants in an Everest of cake
with a cool calculation which should have
won him the prize. Billy Hughes’s Dame
Mary was president of the committee and Avas
decked with lilac and sweet pea in sign thereof.
Airs. George Irvine, president of the Women’s
Country Club, handed .over the flowers,
and in the picture, among the office-bearers,
Avere secretary Mrs. W. J. Nesbitt and trea-
surer Mrs. Roland Hastings. The Mayoress
of RandAvick and the Mayoress of Waverley
by their presence implied a civic interest in
Sydney’s hospital for women, staffed by
women and run by women doctors. A
minuet by members of the club in the
ruffles and laces and dress coquetries of a
past Versailles was the star turn of the
afternoon.
Herewith Mrs. Ernest Hume, entertainer
and broadcaster, of Adelaide, Avho has come
to make her
home in Syd-
ney. She did
very useful
work in Adel-
aide as art
director of the
Repertory So-
ciety : Barrie,
G a 1 sworthy,
S haw and
Yeats we r e
amo n g the
dramatists for
whose Avorks
Mrs. Hume
planned t. h e
stage set-
tings ; and
E u g e n ('
O ’ N eill’s
“Gold” w a s
the last pro-
duction prior
to the gifted
lady’s departure. Mrs. Hume also claims with
pride to have been for one whole year, 1924-25.
the only woman wireless announcer in Aus-
tralia. ' That’s when the youngsters began
to know Auntie Stella, a charming .story-
spinner.
Sir Hugh and Lady Poynter took the Fel-
lowship of Australian Writers within the
gardens and doors of Bateman’s, Rudyard
Kipling’s Sussex home, at last Aveek’s meet-
ing of the members in the Education Build-
ings. And it was no rude intrusion, for Hugh
Poynter and Rudyard Kipling are cousins.
But it was Lady Poynter who told the story,
and while she did it the beauty and the
comfort of the English home Avere almost
palpable. Yellow roses, jasmine and rose-
mary seem to be among the “Empire poet’s”
favorite blooms, and fishing first among his
pastimes. The “Just So” stories were Avritten
for his little daughter Josephine, dead these
many years. A copy of “Kim” in French,
with a bullet imbedded in its pages, is among
the domestic treasures. It came from the
French soldier Avhose life it had saved —came
with his Croix de Guerre and a letter so
touching, that Kipling has had letter and
Croix de Guerre placed in an exquisite bind-
ing. Other letters he has had bound are
from militant feminists in response to his
humorous
The female of the species is more deadly
than the male.
These told him what the writers thought of
his poem and himself —and told it with so
much directness that he keeps them to cheer
him up on wet days.
Kipling’s mother, one of the brilliant Mac-
donald sisters, herself a poetess and author
with her daughter of a book of verse called
“Hand In Hand,” was responsible for one
of the most arresting lines the poet has
penned. “Mother.” he said to her one day,
“I want to say that a man doesn’t know his
own country if lie knows no others. Quick
as a flash came the reply: “What do they
know of England Who only England know!”
So the line stands. A copy 1 of Kipling's
“Schoolboy Lyrics,” written when he was 10,
and privately printed by his parents in
Lahore, an early three-chapter story in MS.
and some of the youngster’s first drawings
were among the treasures Lady Poynter
brought with her to pass round among the
interested.
And everybody w r as glad to hear that the
charming Poynter couple have decided to
stay on for another two years or so in Aus-
tralia. They have bought a home in Warra-
wee, and are sending for their own particular
treasures to have them within touch.
To meet the Lady Luke of Pavenham and
her daughter, the Hon. Enid Lawson Johnston,
the members of the hospitality committee of
the Victoria League gave a tea-party at
Beaumont House, at which the guests were
charmed by Clement Williams’s delightful
singing'. Before the tea-party Mrs. Roy-
stone, Davey had entertained Lady Luke
and her daughter at luncheon at the Queen’s
Club to meet the members of the executive
of the League.
Woman is getting her foot even into
the Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron’s Club —
that Kirribiili stronghold of old shellbacks
and men who go down nearly to the sea
in ships. The new building, the nice
spreading old homestead altered and enlarged
almost out of recognition, will have quarters
for associate members. Some attempt will
be made to keep the sexes apart, and the
associates' will have separate dining- and
card-rooms. Dancing will be carried out in
the old reception-room that leads on to the
wide verandah. The wall of the room will
be knocked down and the verandah enclosed
with plateglass. There will also be 12
bedrooms, but these are for gentlemen only.
The club was founded about 60 years ago,
and the Governor-General makes a habit of
being its Commodore.
Though I fly to Istamboul
Athens holds my heart and soul
sang Byron a hundred years ago. That to
most of us seemed the nearest contact we’d
ever make with the misunderstood poet and
his maid of Athens. But at the Arts Club
the other afternoon, imagine the thrill when
from a stall you picked up a tiny slipper of
gold and green stamped “Istamboul”! The
slippers and countless other worked and
woven fabrics were on view at a Christinas
fair of Armenian goods. The money from
this goes to swell the funds at the disposal
of the Friends of Armenia, whose mission in
life is to rescue young Christian Armenian
girls from Turkish harems. The idea is to
help the girls and the little Armenian child-
ren to support themselves by their handi-
crafts, by opening up markets for them.
The wares, which will be on sale at the
Armenian depot at No. 2 Hunter-street,
include Persian rugs and rugs, from the tents
of desert sheiks, cheerful-looking Damascene
scimitars, impressive silken robes, bowls of
brass and many other Oscar Asche proper-
ties.
If Sydney has a representative club woman
she is Mrs. Bernard Muscio. She is inter-
ested and actively concerned with every
woman’s movement in the city. For many
years she lias been a member of the com-
mittee of the Lyceum Club, and at the
election last week she topped the poll for
president. Mrs. Muscio is popular, scholarly
and a fluent speaker. Mrs. A. G. Thomas,
the retiring president, had skippered the
Lyceum craft for as long a term as the
club’s constitution allows.
Margery Potts, only chick of Mrs. E. I.
Potts, one of Sydney’s publicity experts,
is already on her way to Rangoon by the
Maloja as Mrs. Gordon Innes. She met the
young man last year when she was visiting
a married scliool-chum in the rubber country,
came home to mother engaged, and was duly
wed in St. John’s on a recent night in a
burst of white satin and orange blossom.
Girl choristers from her old school cheered
her on her way to the great give-and-take,
while a long, long trail of ivory and silver
lame and the arm of family friend A. S.
White gave her further support. Joyce
White ’maided and Dick Pomeroy (Mel-
bourne) best-manned. Bride’s mother did the
honors later at the Ambassadors in blue
georgettes, against which she bore a posy
of wallflower and primroses, shading the
whole Avith a wide-brimmed black hat. The
bridegroom fought; through the war in the
company of Gordon Highlanders in which
his grandfather served with Gordon at
Khartoum.
A new engagement ring is casting its
brilliance over Bellevue Hill. It is worn by
Gwen Lamotte, and signifies a matrimonial
date with James Strang, of Mookoo station,
Moree. Gwen’s late father was the owner of
properties in Warialda and Inverell. The
young man is a son of the R. F. G. Strangs,
of Collareen, in the Moree district.
Nena Fildes Avas a pretty bride avlio sought
the benefit of St. Patrick’s on her marriage
to Frank Molloy, of Melbourne, last week.
A smartly-cut ensemble in beige-flat crepe
embroidered in nigger brown, a beige straw-
hat and a bunch of yellow roses were attrac-
tive items in the bridal outfit. ’Maid Mar-
jorie Wilson Avas Locked in horizon-blue
inarocain. with a hat of smooth golden straw.
Congratulations were murmured in the Blue
Room of the Wentworth.
Andre Montvoisin. passage manager of the
Messageries Maritimes, took unto himself
a wife the other morning. She was Joyce
Lockyer, only daughter of the Norman Lock-
yers,' of Ed'gecliff, and a niece of Knight
Nicholas Lockyer, of Melbourne. The
’groom’s father was Emile Montvoisin, of
Mauritius.
An engagement to be noted is that of
Elizabeth Deuchar Gordon, younger daughter
of the well-known Manar family, to Dr. Ash-
leigh Davy, of Sydney.
Nell Gale, of the wistful expression, who
uses her imagination to charm you with
her piano-playing, is to give a recital at the
Con. on the 25th. Her performance at the
same address last year earned her well-
deserved praise. Nell is a daughter of well-
known astronomer W. F. Gale. She, in fact,
is his favorite star.
Trix Tange will again, next Tuesday,
demonstrate to Sydney audiences what a
superb young pianist she is. A graceful
creature at the keyboard, with her shingled
gold head and her boyish slimness, she
should be as successful with the American
audiences she is about to face as with her
Australian following. For Trix is taking
advantage of an offer made on behalf of
Daniel Mayer, New York’s entrepreneur, by
Mark Levine, brother of Misclia Levitzki,
who made his first overtures to her after
hearing her play at a welcome to Gianni ni.
How is this for the up-to-date flapper? A
good-looking widow with two schoolgirl
daughters married again. After a few years.
Romance wore thin and boredom was in the
air. Then divorce began to float rather more
than vaguely in the lady’s mind. All of a sud-
den she reversed gear, made herself as charm-
ing to her handsome husband as in the days
of courtship, and the result was a second and
more blissful honeymoon. The wife confided
to one of her old friends that her change of
conduct was due to the fact that she had
overheard her younger daughter say with
deadly certitude to the elder: “When mother
divorces the skipper, I’m going to marry
him."
Broome Park, the seat of the late Lord
Kitchener, is advertised for sale —-there are
pages and pages about it in the English
papers. But not a word anywhere about
Hughie Mclntosh, who was reputed to be the
owner of it. By the way, there is still a
Lord Kitchener: he is elder brother of the
great Kitchener and lives in Kenya Colony,
East Africa. His eldest sou died: that son’s
widow is the present Viscountess Broome ;
and her son is Viscount Broome, heir to the
earldom. But lie’s a youngster of no more
than 10 or so. Officially their residence is
still Broome Park; but there isn’t much
money in the family to maintain it.
There’s a pretty tribute afoot to ’Nellie
Stewart. A group of her women friends is
starting a portrait fund ; and it is felt that
hundreds who were young with Sweet Nell
will be glad to subscribe to perpetuate the
face and figure of Australia’s leading comedy
actress. Mrs. Fred Aronson, Miss E. Austin
and Mrs. Leslie Victor are the treasurers
in Sydney ; Mrs. Maurice MacGillicuddy, of
Melbourne, started the idea.
An event of Health Week which is going to
raise the most indignant protests in the best
ge r m circles
is the Mother-
craft Exhibi-
tion in the
basement o f
the Town
Hall. No
fewer than
four baby-
welfare clinics
will bo in full
working order,
one in each
corner of the
basement. At
these the new
settler's health
will be cared
for before lie
li a s e v e n
arrived in
A u stra li a.
Mothers, too.
will w a 1 k
along aisles of
strength-building baby foodstuffs to go to
and from the clinics, or to view on tlieir own
behalf the latest in labor-saving devices. The
exhibition will be held on the 24th and 25th
and is for the benefit of the Royal Hospital
for Women at Paddington, the Benwick
Hospital for Babies, and Scarba —all three
institutions run by the Benevolent Society.
A feature of special interest to women will
be a demonstration on the care of the pre-
mature infant, under the direction of nurses
from the Royal Hospital for Women. The
exhibition, which is-being held with the co-
operation of the Department of Public
Health, has been worked up by a committee
of 15 energetic ladies, of whom Mrs. A. A.
Brodziak is the treasurer and Miss A. Mc-
Cormick, the subject of this May Moore
picture, the capable secretary.
OVERHEARD.
Uncle ( old-fashioned and courteous ) : “She was
not very young, I should say, when your cousin
married her; but very attractive and comely.’’
Niece (who had evidently heard something) : “Yes,
Uncle, I know—very attractive and very incomely.”


(rS
15
tv.
at
IN JELLY
c=>
ITNS
Why is REX'PYE so obviously
supreme in quality ?
Simply because we use only the
very choicest raw materials,
never sacrificing quality for
cheapness.
Note the delicate, appetising
aroma of as you
open the can, and the fresh,
pink, wholesome appearance of
the meat. Note the clear, firm
jelly. Enjoy the delicious flavour
as you eat the dainty.
For Quality, always say REX-PYE to your
grocer or smallgoodsman.
ft
In lib and x Alb hygienic cans.
Foggitt Jones Pty. Ltd.
(Division of United Provisions Ltd.)


“WALLARINGA” MANSIONS
a
■3r,' « <W~*~z?r
NEUTRAL BAY, SYDNEY.
UNDER ENTIRELY NEW MANAGEMENT.
Occupying as it does, one of the picked
positions and absolutely the healthiest
on the shores of Sydney Harbor, quiet
and secluded, and within a short
distance of the City.
The Mansions are exceptionally well
built, having fine airy rooms over-
looking Sydney’s beautiful harbor;
also Lounges, Smoking Rooms, Tennis,
Croquet, Swimming Baths, Ball Room,
Guests’ Laundry, Electric Light.
The “Wallaringa” Mansions stand in
a fine position in Neutral Bay, and
the grounds and gardens are well kept.
During the day the views from “Wal-
laringa” are glorious, and at night
the myriad lights, across the harbor
and on the numerous Ferry Boats,
make a faivy-like scene that world-
wide travellers say is unequalled any-
where.
To maintain the reputation of these
w'ell-known Mansions, guests are well
attended to and have every conveni-
ence and comfort. Correspondence
and Telegrams punctually attended to.
Terms from £3/3/- per week.
Apply, The Manager.
’Phones: X 2239, X 2267.
Telegrams: “Wallaringa, Sydney.’’
đ
d
Food
Herd- THA»k M a ll k
u
I don’t like Milk.
Many mothers have this trouble
with the very children who
need milk most.
In nursing homes, hospitals,
etc., they have a way of making
everybody like milk. The
doctors call it Bengerising the
milk—this is really making
fresh mi lk into delicious
Benger s Food.
Write for booklet to; —BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
99
PARDISE PLUMES
by GILBERT MUNRO TURNBULL
JlluclreJioixj bt) □
CHAPTER XXIV ( Continued ).
FOR a breathless second Lesley waited
for Blake’s answer. He uttered an
exclamation of disgust.
“Nothing doing, Tod! I haven’t come to
that.”
Lesley breathed again. A sportsman, this
Stephen Blake, clean all the way through.
She was glad he had answered so promptly
and so uncompromisingly.
Tod uttered a short derisive laugh.
“You’ve bloomin’ well got to come to it,
Steve,” he growled. “Make no errer about
that! To-morrow you stand over ’im with
a bludgeon, so to speak, and come to a
friendly arrangement like. Lesley ’as got
to go back to Laubogi. On this occasion,
any’ow. Make up y’ mind to it, my lad.”
A tortured smile twisted Lesley’s lips.
She had made her decision. It was final,
irrevocable. Nothing would induce her to
go back. Nothing, nothing!
“She’ll never go back, Tod,” Blake re-
torted warmly. “Put that idea out of your
mind. It’s impossible. Unthinkable!”
“Y’ won’t try to persuade ’er, Steve?”
“No!” snapped Blake. “Emphatically,
no!”
“Then y’ either a fool or a rogue!”
Lesley gasped. She made an impetuous
movement to disclose her presence, but
Tod’s voice, rising, drove her back to her
hiding-place.
“Y’ keen on y’ career, ain’t you? Well,
kiss it good-bye! Y’ll be scratchin’ for a job
on the other side before”
“What are you raving about, Tod?”
“Carn’t y’ see wot I’m drivin’ at, Steve?
Carn’t y’ see the ’ole both you young fools
are blunderin’ into? I b’lieve y’ intentions
are good, Steve. But you’re shovin’ our
little Lesley orf the deep end, and y’ ’aven’t
the brains to see it. An’ that’s puttin’ it
kind.”
Blake remained ominously silent.
“I’ll put it in a nutshell,” Tod went on.
“Mind yer, Steve, I b’lieve that as far as
the girl’s concerned y’ can look any man
fair in the eye and call him a liar. But
y’ ’ad a row. Y’ knocked Merton out, ’n’
then did a bunk. ’Old on, now! That same
day Lesley packs up and clears out, and
to-day I books ’er passage to Port Moresby,
an’ she’s takin’ the Moratau south. Now,
to put the tin-’at on it, y’ tell me you’re
skedaddlin’ from the division.”
Lesley’s heart skipped a beat, and she
stifled a little cry.
“Y’ beginnin’ to savee, eh? Good! We’ll
go on a bit. Merton ’ates you like blazes.
’ls wife bolts just after y’ woodens ’im.
If she don’t go back to ’im, ’e’s lorst ’er for
good, and ’e’ll know it. Wot’ll ’e do, bearin’
in mind that ’e’s lookin’ for you good an’
’ard? ’E’ll send ’er a letter askin’ ’er to
come back. She’ll turn ’im down, cold.
Then the lawyers’ll get busy. You’ll be
the mug, Steve, an’ they’ll give you ’ell!”
“Good God, Tod!” Blake’s voice was un-
speakably shocked. “He wouldn’t dare!”
“ ’E’s got nothin’ to lose! Remember
’ow ’e put it over you four years ago?
’E’ll do it again, my lad, if y’ don’t shut
’im up quick ’n’ lively. D’ you think
the Administration’ll stand for you figgerin’
in a case like that? You know dam’ well
they won’t. Innocent or guilty, which ever
way it goes, it’ll be the stone end of you.
Any’ow, you’re a man. Y’ can look after
y’self. Wot about our little lady? Can
y’ see .’er name dragged in the mud? Spare
me days!”
Both men were on their feet. Lesley
stood at the door of the dining-room,
trembling as if with fever. Her hand
fumbled with the door behind her. She
pulled it to and advanced towards them.
“I heard,” she breathed, hardly above a
whisper. “I heard—everything.”
She turned her eyes to Blake.
“What have I brought upon you,
Stephen?” She faltered. “Dear God!
What have I done?”
CHAPTER XXV.
Resolutions and Explanations.
Lesley’s mind was in a daze. She sank
into a chair, staring about her like a terri-
fied child.
Tod Lorimer shifted his weight from one
foot to the other. His face was pink, and
he was squirming in embarrassment.
“Think I’ll leave y’ to it, Steve,” he
muttered feebly. He bent over Lesley,
patting her shoulder reassuringly.
“I’m dead right, my dear,” he said, “but,”
he added brightly, “everything’ll come out
right. ’E’s Steve—straight an’ clean. ’E’ll
see y’ through, my dear. Make no errer.”
He walked away, but paused at the dining-
room door, and, turning, beckoned insistently
to Blake. Blake stepped to his side.
“Don’t be a damned fool over this ’ere
business, Steve,” the old man whispered.
“ ’E’s as cunnin’ as a rat, Merton is, and as
crooked as a dog’s ’ind leg. An’ ’e’ll stop
at nothin’. Put the boot in good and ’ard!”
Blake went back to Lesley.
She raised her head and looked at him
with affrighted eyes
“I shall go
back to Laubogi,
Stephen,” she said.
“That,” he re-
joined, “is absurd.”
His voice softened.
“If, in your heart,
you know that the
breach cannot. be
bridged, board the
Siai to-night, and
go back home to
those who love
you.”
“And leave you
to”
Blake’s laugh was
determinedly light.
“Leave me out
of the picture en-
tirely. I give you
my word that you
may go aboard the
Siai to-night with-
out fear of any un-
pleasant complica-
tions.”
Lesley made a
weary gesture of
impatience.
“It is not the
slightest use trying
to deceive me,
Stephen,” she re-
plied. “What is
your plan? What
are you going to
do at Laubogi?”
Blake stared.
“Plan? Do?” he
stammered.
“You have some
kind of hold over
my husband. What
is it?”
Blake shrugged
helplessly. “Then
you heard— that? How long were you”
“You are going to do something that is
hateful to you. You’re going to throw away
the pride in your manhood, Stephen, for—
for—me! ”
“Let me assure you that your conclusions
are quite wrong,” he cut in gruffly.
Lesley looked timidly at him. There was
that in his eyes that caused her to turn
quickly away. She had seen it before —
many times—and she had thought it meant
pity! She stole another glance at him. What
a gallant liar he was!
Then something took hold of Lesley Mer-
ton, took her and held her firmly. It lifted
her head and tilted her chin, it caused a
glow of exaltation to permeate her. The
misery vanished from her face, the pain
from her eyes.
Blake stared dumbly at her. A little
smile puckered the corners of her mouth,
and it filled him with uneasiness. She
opened her lips to speak, but a sound
checked her. A sob—sobs, rather. Someone
was crying bitterly, shudderingly in the
dining-room.
Lesley murmured something and rushed
away, and Blake heard her soothing, com-
forting Moira Lorimer.
Blake, bewildered, charged his pipe. He
noticed with surprise that his hands were
trembling. Lesley was right. He would
never feel quite the same after he had
finished with Merton. But it was better—
a thousand times better—that Merton
should be—well—persuaded to see reason,
than that Lesley should suffer any more
indignities at the brute’s hands. If he,
Blake, held his hand, that which Tod
Lorimer had prophesied would indubitably
come to pass. There was no escape from
the course he had mapped out for him-
self; no other means of tying Merton’s
hands. He would go to Laubogi to-morrow
with a detailed confession prepared ready
ARTHUR GROOM, who wrote “Merry Christmas!” There is
more fun in it, one of the judges said, than in the last
hundred novels he had read all put together. Sandy
Jackson, one of the characters, is the most humorous
scalliwag that Australian literature has seen for years. The
first instalment will be printed in THE BULLETIN on
November 6.
for signature, and a blank warrant. Merton
could have his choice.
Moira had stilled her distress. He could
hear the two girls talking together. Pre-
sently they appeared hand in hand at the
door. Moira’s eyes were red and inflamed,
but her face was all smiles.
“Lesley is not going away from me, Mr.
Blake!” she cried. “Her mind she has just
now changed. And I am vary happy.
“What?” Blake stared at her incredu-
lously, then turned abruptly to Lesley.
“Of course I am not going to run away,
Stephen,” she cried. “To-morrow we are,
both going to Laubogi, my friend.”
She lifted her head proudly. Her voice
had a quality of challenge in it there was
no mistaking.
Blake stood quite still for a moment.
“As you please, Mrs. Merton,” he said
stiffly. And, under his breath, “You little
brick!”
* * * *
The Siai was hull down on the horizon
headed for Moresby.
“Barstow hopes to make up the time he
lost at Laubogi to-day by steaming all
night,” remarked Blake. “He is taking a
risk.”
Blake and the girl were strolling along
the beach in the stillness of the dusk.
Lesley broke into the little rippling laugh
he had heard so seldom of late.
She sobered instantly. “Do you know
why I inveigled you so brazenly from the
house, Stephen?” she asked.
Blake nodded. “I fancy I can guess.”
“Then, will you tell me everything,
please?” Her voice was grave and firm.
“Hal was in a terrible funk that morning
at Laubogi. I think you ought to tell me
why. I understand why you refused to en-
lighten me then. Manlike, or, rather, child-
like, you imagined that to —to expose Hal
in my presence would be altogether too
unsporting.” ,
“Something like that, I suppose, Blake
assented
“I can’t help thinking that if you had
trusted me in the beginning you might
have saved us all some very unhappy
moments,” Lesley replied.
“I doubt it.”
“I’m sure of it,” she asserted vehemently.
“I’m asking for your confidence now.”
Blake halted. “Perhaps you ought to be
told. Why not?” He appeared to be
ruminating. Then, as though having come
to a decision, he spoke again. “You shall
have my confidence, Lesley. It is yours
by right.”
They sat down on the shingle.
“I wonder,” he opened, “if you remember
—months ago at Laubogi—l you an
utterly preposterous ghost story?”
Lesley looked interested. “Why, of course!
I have it in my diary just as you related
it.”
“I’m glad you thought the yarn worth
preserving,” Blake commented drily. “D’
you remember the bird-of-paradise that
blundered into your garden as I was leaving.
I hadn’t seen such a superb specimen of the
male bird for years. Fine, wasn’t it?”
“Oh, I was simply thrilled.”
“How did you dispose of the skins you
had stowed away?” Blake shot at her.
Lesley started, and the color mounted
painfully to her cheeks. “I—l destroyed
them, Stephen,” she stammered. “Who
told you that I”
“You were wise, Lesley. They are very
dangerous possessions in New Guinea. If
a European admits ownership of even a
single plume, he risks a heavy fine. To
traffic in birds-of-paradise, slaughter them
wholesale, and smuggle them out of the
country for profit is one of the most serious
offences in the Papuan calendar.”
Lesley wished he would not labor the
point. “I burned those I had when you
told me”
(Continued on page 51.)


A Word for Australia
The Bulletin’s new serial “Merry
Christmas!” will give people on the
other side of the world a splendid
picture of life on a North Queensland
cattle station.
It will give a picture, too, of the finest
type of Australian bushmen and of the
work they have to do and how they
do it.
No better gift could be sent to a
friend. The first two instalments of
this serial will reach England before
Christmas.
The Bulletin with every chapter of
this great Australian novel will he sent
for three months overseas for Bs., and
to any address in Australia or New
Zealand for 7/-. Six months (which
will include Vance Palmer’s “Men Are
Human”), 15/6 (overseas) and 12/6
(Australasian). Twelve ihontlis (which
will include also two prize stories in the
next Bulletin £2OOO Novel Competi-
tion). 30/- and 24/-.
VISITORS TO THE MELBOURNE CUP
will follow every detail of the racing
without effort if they go equipped with
ROSS FIELD CLASSES
■
These famous British Binoculars are recognised
as world’s standard of quality. Extra wide
field of vision is a point that- appeals to
racegoers, whilst their clear, sharp definition,
luminosity and fine stereoscopic effect combine
to make' Ross Field Glasses unequalled for
all-round use.
Fairfax and Roberts sell these famous bino-
culars at London Catalogue prices, from £lO.
The model illustrated is the Ross -f- 7
model, a magnificent glass for general use.
Inspeit full range of Ross Models in
our Optical Department, First Floor.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
Sight Testing Opticians,
23-25 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
LTD.,
d
iHiiiiniiijtm
>5
Also Hosiery, Woollens, etc. Cash’s Names are
unsurpassed for the Household, Traveller and
School Outfits. Any name woven in fast colof
s
a
: ‘A Few Stitches and They’re on”
1 (ffl.&tWZijtUlsnAs :
Actual Size, Style No. 6
The Prices are Moderate
12 doz. 7/6, 6 doz. 5/-, 3 doz. 3/#
SOLD BY LEAPING DRAPERS,
Wrtte for Name Style Circular to
J. a J CASH Pty Ltd
8S Cubitt Street. Richmond
Itttsa
"V
Eseya^ffiSßsss
Will Last
For a
Lifetime
Saves
Loss and
Trouble
umm
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Caontal [?]00[?] P[?]
Buckley & Numn [?]utod
Sou[?] [?] M[?]
This year’s Caulfield Cup crowd beat the
record comfortably and got well past the
66,000 mark. The weather at any rate
wasn’t repelling: and if the sun didn’t shine
with the glory of the cup which the G.-G.
presented to Mrs. Len Buxton, High Syce’s
winner, there was at the least a subdued
glimmer from its place among the clouds.
Strangers were loud in their praises of the
appearance of course and lawns, shaded as
they were by beautiful trees and glorified by
a wealth of flowers, among which purple and
yellow pansies made striking splashes ot'
color. In the members’ stand and grandstand
putting-a-bit-on was a difficult business, re-
quiring strategic ability, for a solid block of
humanity filled the betting ring. Fashions ran
the gamut of the calendar, for there were ups
and downs of temperature in the morning
which caused many women to dress twice,
changing from summer- to autumn-weight
wear, and there were cautious souls who
came prepared for blizzards. As matters
turned out those w T lio had come arrayed in
filmy chifons were comfortably clad, and so
were those who chose ensemble suits. Mrs.
Buxton, the first woman to have to submit
to a battery of cameras as she held the Cup,
covered her flowered ninon gown with a beige
coat, her straw millinery blending. Mrs. Mer-
son Cooper wore a summery flecked tweed
suit with brown millinery. Mayoress Luxton
Mrs. George Langridge, Mrs. James Grice,
wife of the chairman of the V.A.T.C., and
Mrs. E. M. Pearce were in the committee
ladies’ pen. Carrie Moore, who was our
unsurpassed “Merry Widow” of some years
back, wore white lace with a touch of
spring-like green. Ada Reeve’s frock and
hat were vivid yellow, and an apple-green
ensemble with, touches of white and gold
and matching shoes and millinery was worn
by Mrs. Frederic Bentley. Major Nicholls,
A.D.C. to the G.-G., was accompanied by
his sister Miss Nicholls on a visit from
England. She topped a dull green. suit
with a nigger-hrown hat. A Sydney visitor
was Miss L. Mort, who was with her sister
Mrs. H. P. Willis. Mr. and Mrs. A. B.
Anderson and the E. E. Forths represented
Brisbane.
The elections had some influence upon the
attendance and atmosphere of the Animal
Welfare League’s Ball, but the president,
Mrs. Norman Brookes, whose draped gown
was of La France rose hue, was optimistic
concerning the financial return. Among the
frocks were some of the latest confections,
with ventilated backs and bits of material
dipping to the floor. In some instances there
must have been more stuff floating free than
on the wearer’s bodies. Mrs. Arthur Payne,
Mrs. Frank Andrew, Mrs. Lort Smith and
her sister Marion Montgomery, all enthusi-
astic leaguers, were in black. The black-lace
gown of hon. sec. Mrs. James Purves was
brightened with turquoise blue. Pat Lem-
priere, in cobwebby cream lace, and Marie
Greene were the ticket secs. Mrs. lan Macdon-
ald featured the cut-away back in an emerald-
green chiffon frock with narrow silk fringe
and a peacock dip of skirt. Ninette Turck’s
black ninon had many lines of black military
braid, and Esme Frankenberg, receiving con-
gratulations upon her just-announced engage-
ment to Dr. 0. J. Brown, looked charming
in a simple white satin gown.
Though there was a good roll up of the
fair sex on the second day at Caulfield,
dressing wasn’t very showy. Posies of lily
of the valley and tulips which weighted
innumerable coat-lapels gave a cheery touch.
The Governor-General arrived early, before
the first race. Mrs. Xavier de Bavay
(daughter of Mrs. M. Cooper), who is on
a visit from Hobart, was there in a two-
piece costume of cigar-brown velour and
fancy-patterned ninon, with a small felt
hat. Mayoress Luxton was in black with a
green and black ’kerchief shoulder drape,
topped by black millinery. Mrs. E. M.
Pearce, Mrs. Cluade Grice and Mrs. Ben
Chaffey were in the committee’s ladies’ box.
. For the third year in succession Mrs. T.
A. Tabart, wife of the secretary of the
V.A.T.C., entertained press-w y omen at lunch.
The meal was spread in the v.-r.. dining-
room. Pink sweet-peas and tulips trailed
over the damask, and coat-sprays of lily of
the valley marked the guests’ places. The
hostess, whose slate-blue suit had touches
of biscuit hue, had the aid of Mrs. Merson
Cooper. Edna Tabart was also there in pale-
grey ensemble coat over a figured chiffon
frock, topped by a lace straw hat in fawn,
black and red.
There is promise of an early purchase of
radium for St. Vincent’s Hospital. A sub-
stantial addition to the fund, then standing
at £2OOO, was ensured by the very successful
ball at the St. Ivilda Plaza organised by
the Auxiliaries. There were sales of novelties
and sweets and some raffles and auctions to
swell the ticket receipts. During supper,
cabaret turns were furnished by a ballet of
bonnie girls and some dancers from the lead-
ing picture theatres. Frederic Bentley also
helped. Mrs. Merson Cooper, general presi-
dent of the Auxiliaries, wearing oxidised
brocade gleaming beneath sapphire tulle, wel-
comed Mayor and Mayoress Luxton, she in
black lace traced with black beads. A sheaf
of tulips was passed to Mrs. Luxton, and
the Mother Rectress of St. Vincent’s sent a
floral gift for Mrs. Merson Cooper. Mrs. J.
Alston and Mrs. J. .T. Brenan were among
those at the official table, and others present
were Mrs. Montague Cohen, Mrs. .T. P.
Casey, Mrs. R. M. Cuthbertson, in parchment
tinted georgette with embroidery in pink
and crystal beads ; Mrs. T. .T. Ryan, clad in
grey georgette; and Mrs. Rogers Thomson,
wearing black tulle. Mrs. E. 0. MacDevitt,
whose interest is the hospital’s Little Green
Shop, was there in black lace. Mollie War-
den, with a dash of green on a gold tissue
frock, and Kath Rogers Thomson, wearing
white georgette cheered with a red belt and
shoes, were helpers. Ada Reeve danced in
rose-patterned gold brocade. Mrs. Frederic
Bentley and Mrs. R. Fitcher joined the hop
late in the evening.
Mrs. Scullin.wife of the new Prime Minister,
pictured here, is a native of Ballarat and a
grand-niece of an old identity, the late Dr.
Hutchinson. The new P.M. was living in
the Golden City when he married his wife,
a daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs. Michael
McNamara. Mr. Scullin represented Cor-
angamite, in the Western District, for three
years, and being defeated became managing
editor of the Echo, Ballarat’s even-
ing newspaper. The Scullins have re-
sided in Melbourne since 1922, when he was
elected for Yarra. Mrs. Scullin was first
president of the Catholic Women’s Social
Guild in her home town. In Melbourne she has
found her time fully occupied investigating
and endeavoring to relieve the many cases
of distress which come to her for help. She
always accompanies her husband to Can-
berra, but they have decided not to occupy
the Prime Minister’s mansion just yet, the
servant problem being a formidable one at
the Federal capital. Mrs. Scullin’s recrea-
tions are painting, bridge and golf.
Arrangements for the Navy League Ball,
to be held on the Mongolia on Melbourne
Cup eve, were discussed at a luncheon given
aboard by Captain H. R. Rhodes during the
week. Members of the Victorian branch of
the league as well as the committee of the
jazz were among the guests, who included
Mayoress Luxton, the president of the
League, Arthur Peek, Mrs. Arthur Hordern,
Mrs. G. F. Langford and Mrs. A. M. Treacy.
There was a mobilising of doctors at the
Windsor one night last week to make a fuss
of Dame Janet Campbell. The hosts were
medicoes Felix Meyer, Dunbar Hooper,
Arthur Wilson and R. H. Fetherston, who
were aided by Mrs. Felix Meyer, in mole-
colored gown traced with chenille embroidery,
and Mrs. Wilson, wearing sprayed ninon m
fawn and dull green. Miss Fetherston, who
wore ■ a patterned chiffon frock, and Miss
Hooper, arrayed in black tulle, were also
to the fore. Dame Janet, whose gown was
of black lace, gave thanks for her welcome
and the posy that accompanied it. A string-
orchestra was faintly heard above a murmur
of chat and the clatter of coffee-cups. Lud
Mayor Luxton and Mrs. Luxton, James Bar-
rett and his lady, Mr. and Mrs. Rupert
Downes, Dr. and Mrs. A. Robertson and
the Stanley Argyles were there.
The Housewives’ Association, which has
nominated pretty Gwen Corrigan as its can-
didate in the Green Competition to aid the
Women’s Hospital, gave a dance at the St.
Kilda Plaza on Friday night, the proceeds
of which will purchase votes for the I-I.A.
nominee. Miss Corrigan wore, rose-pink
taffeta, and was presented with a posy. The
maiden has good backing with Mrs. J. Als-
ton president; her mother, Mrs. T. AY. Cor-
rigan, hon. sec., and the full force of the
housewives to lend a hand.
The L.A.B. Club gathered in the three
examiners of the Associated Board as its
guests at tin- Lyceum Club. The trio pro-
vided the entertainment, Lloyd Powell
drawing upon Liszt and the classics for liis
contributions, and the other pianist, Arthur
Benjamin, furnishing contrast with some
modern works. Herbert Kinsey, who is a
member of tin' London String Quartette,
chatted about chamber music.
Dr. Gwynnetli Buchanan, president of the
Lyceum Club, said the foreword for the exhi-
bition of the club’s artists and crafts-women,
which is housed in the reception-room. There
is a sparsity of crafts entries, Nina Bagot’s
wooden trays, some dainty calendars, a few
Batik scarves and some sculpture by Mar-
garet Baskerville about summing up this
section. Several well-known women painters
are represented, including Clara Southern,
Dora L. Wilson, May Vale Gilfillan, Mrs.
Tweedle and Alice and Edith Currie. Jessie
Traill’s “Pomies.” is reminiscent of that
famous picture, “The Gleaners.” Miss C. E.
Green, in “The Poinsettia Tree,” and Edith
M. Ussher, in a glimpse of a Queensland
homestead garden, handle bright colors
cleverly. The most arresting exhibits are
two portrait studies in black and white by
a former gallery student, Win Francis, who
married into tiie McCubbin family. Esther
Patterson and Aileen Dent show portraits
in oils.
The link between Neville Bowes Kelly and
Molly Davey was forged among arum lilies
and lilac at St. George’s, Malvern, last week.
The* bride broke away from the usually-
selected soft materials by wearing ivory
moire, long of sleeve and flared of skirt.
Limerick lace made train and veil. The
bridesmaids, Margaret Reade and Sybil
Bowes Kelly, chose green crepe de Chine
allied to floral chiffon and tulle, with green
straw hats. They carried bouquets of tulips.
Mrs. Harold Reade was hostess afterwards
at No. 9 in celebration of the marriage of
her elder daughter.
Florence Tronson has taken an English
husband who wears a naval uniform —Engi-
neer-Commander David Stewart Lee, ofAVau-
stead Park, Essex. The splice was made at
St. George’s, Bloomsbury, before a select
congregation. The bride is the eldest daugh-
ter of the late Mr. and Mrs. A. K. Tronson,
of Carlton. She was making her third visit
to the Old World when Cupid got his bow
to work.
Mrs. Frances Derham, who was laid to
rest in Kew Cemetery last week, was the
widow of F. T. Derham, Postmaster-Gen-
eral in the Gillies-Deakin Ministry. For
years her husband was joint head, along
with her dad, Thomas Swallow, of the firm
of Swallow and Ariell, biscuit manufacturers,
Port Melbourne. As president of the Cham-
ber of Manufactures, Mr. Derham offered
strong opposition to Peacock’s factory legis-
lation, but he became more tolerant to it
before his death. Two sons and three daugh-
ters survive Mrs. Derham. One daughter
married C.G., son of George Gordon McCrae,
the poet.
Fourteen-year-old Nancy Weir demurely
stepped from between parted curtains to
the stage of the Town Hall on Saturday
night to find an almost capacity house
assembled to help her to pursue her studies
in Germany. The young pianist is short
and sturdy and has a particularly able
left hand. In her white taffeta frock
sprinkled with embroidered rosebuds she
made an appealing picture, for she looks
younger than her years. After her first
offering, Glazounov’s difficult and lengthy
Theme and Variations, there was a proces-
sion of attendants laying flowers and gifts
at her feet. The aspidistras that decorated
the footlights’ fringe had to be pushed off
to make room for baskets and sheaves and
an immense horseshoe of crimson roses.
Mayor Luxton announced that someone in
the' audience had been so impressed with
Nancy’s playing that he fiad there and then
written a cheque for £5O to add to her
fund, which it is hoped will touch £2OOO.
Baritone Harold Williams, David Sisser-
man, with his ’cello, and accompanist
Lindsay Biggins came forward without fee
to give the youngster support. Enthusiasm
ran so high that it was nearly eleven at the
finish and then the evening’s heroine, with
her teacher, Ada Freeman, had to be photo-
graphed among the horticulture, and still the
crowd waited to cheer the young lady on her
way. In the audience wore Mrs. Merson
Cooper, Mrs. Xavier do Bavay, Mrs. Clarence
Marriott, the Fritz Harts and a big roll up of
folk from Lockhart, which is the little musi-
cian’s home-town.
The programme of Mrs. Norman Gads-
den’s recital at the Assembly Ilall on the eve
of her departure for Europe for further study
was made up of old and modern English,
French and German songs. Wearing eau de
Nil taffeta spattered with blossoms, full of
skirt with a diaphanous hem line, the mezzo-
soprano chose a group of numbers in Frencn
for her first offering, and then culled from the
store of Parry, Roger Quilter, Frank Bridge
and Franz. Harold Browning and Howard
Andrews were heard, and soprano Lola
Edwards sang an aria from “Le Cid.” Floral
tributes handed to the leave-taker included a
miniature ocean-liner, large baskets, sheaves
and posies. A big crimson morocco week-end
bag roused feminine envy as it was passed
over with .a collection of parcels. There were
flowers also for Miss Edwards and for Mrs.
Harold Browning, the accompanist. A full
house and plenty of applause helped to make
tin l affair successful.
There was a meeting of past and present
students of the Albert-street Con. when Mrs.
11. Uxbridge Best handed round the afternoon
brew at her Ivew home last week, to honor
a co-student, Marie Bremner, who plays the
name part in the revival of “Rose Marie.
Miss Bremner came to the party in a frock
of fawn tint spotted in pink, with a blending
straw hat. Mrs. Best, in soft raiment of
seagull grey, accompanied her to the
guest of honor with an offering of flowers.
An alluring suggestion for the trimming
of children’s frocks comes from Paris, where
designs in applique are having a great run
for juvenile wear. The idea is carried out
with plain materials, brightly colored pieces
of fine felt or fabric being stitched so as
to present a sort of mosaic picture. Land-
scapes, birds, beasts, nursery-rhyme sub-
jects and so forth are in favor.
Rebecca West, whose new novel lias just
been published in London, has a link with
Australia, where her father worked as a
journalist and her sister Letty. now Dr.
Letitia Fairfield, played around as a small
girl. The authoress’s real name is Cicely hair-
field, and she keeps green her Australia/]
memories with a grove of wattles planted
round her small villa at St. Raphael, on
the Riviera, where the sisters spend their
winters and gain a reputation on the pro-
menade as smart dressers. Miss Let;v
Fairfield is a barrister-at-law of the Middle
Temple, besides being a Doctor of Medicine
and a Bachelor of Surgery. Many Aus-
tralians abroad have enjoyed the hospitality
of the clever sisters.
Ethel Ryan and Mildred Kemp, lately
returned after 16 months in Britain and the
Continent, were in Paris for Armistice Day,
halted at Versailles when the fountains
played and saw Cologne en fete, with the
vast cathedral flooded in light that made it
look like lace. They had a peep at Monte
Carlo and staked a coin or two; and they
visited the perfumery factories of Grasse.
Besides hearing all the great musicians and
operatic stars, including Jeritza in the new
Strauss opera “Rosen Ivavalier,” conducted
by the composer, they attended at the Nice
Opera House a performance of Madame
Butterfly,” in which the name part was
sung by a Japanese prima donna.
An Austin Murcott camera presents Edna
Tabart, elder daughter of the T. A. Tabarts,
of Malvern,
who will
change her
name to War-
burton on the
29th. The wed-
ding is of in-
terest to Tas-
manians, for
the secretary
of the V. A.T.C.
came from the
Apple Isle
with his wife
and family
omy a few
years ago,
when this
month’s bride
was a scliool-
girl. Both
Edna and her
sistei Pixie
have taken
part in phil-
anthropic activities in Melbourne, and have
aided and abetted tlieir mother in her
schemes to raise money for the Women’s
Hospital.
Eileen Starr, laden with flowers, letters
of introduction and good wishes, set out
for London by the Baradine last week to
give musical comedy managers a chance to
acquire another tuneful Australian voice.
Miss Starr, who is a product of the Albert-
street Con., has been heard on the radio
and was a member of the “Five-o’clock Girl”
co. during its Sydney season.
Having finished their travels in England
and on the Continent the Lyster Jacksons
are thinking about home, which they hope
to reach before Christmas. Hylda McCardel.
who preceded her mother abroad in company
with Marie Mackinnon, is not returning yet
awhile.'


traiiißiiiimsoiiM
1 Ha
laiiwiioiiiico!
57 7
No. 309-£3O
No. 304—£25
No. 306—£25
No. 308—£55
No. 307—£65
No. 303 —£45
B 578
0Z3 —00£ '°N
No. 305—£40
The Diamond Rings illustrated above
represent the finest value offered in
Australia. All the diamonds are set in
pure platinum by Drummond’s ring
experts. Money will be refunded if
not approved of. Illustrated Ring Cata-
logue sent post free to any address.
WM.DRUMMOND 6 CO«
DIAMOND AND-PEARLSPECIALI STS-
-344-346 COLLINS STREET
MELBOURNE
RAINTERJ®
DECORATORS
A REAL HELP FOR YOU
jgSß®
UNDER
p Erection
ASSN
Sis
THE PURPOSE
OF THIS TEXT-BOOK IS TO EDUCATE MEN
TO BE FIRST-CLASS JOURNEYMEN, HOUSE-
PAINTERS AND DECORATORS.
TOOLS
MATERIALS
INSIDE WORK
CALCIMINING
PAPER HANGING
WOOD FINISHING
FLOOR FINISHING
OUTSIDE WORK
PRICE
126
POST
FREE
NO MATTER HOW GOOD YOUR WORK, YOU CAN DO IT BETTER IF
WELL INFORMED.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
TECHNICAL BOOKSHOP,
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
im
•' u
_ I
m
um
A
m
ji
H
Dependable !
SINCE 1916 Delco-Light has been pre-eminent in
the home-lighting field, and to-day there are more
Delco-Light plants in use than all others com-
bined.
Model 778 is a new Delco-Light plant combining the
advantages of an automatic and a battery-charging
electric-light plant. All loads below 200 watts are
supplied from the battery, and larger loads auto-
matically start the generator, which continues to run
until the load falls again to 200 watts.
When you instal an electric-light plant you expect to
have electricity twenty-four hours each day for 365
days each year. That is just what Model 778 will
give you. In addition to being economical in opera-
tion, quiet running and beautiful in appearance, it
is above all dependable .
The installation of a Delco-light plant not only gives
you electric light in every room at the touch of a
switch; it enables you also to employ such labor-
saving devices as a pump washing machine, electric
iron and vacuum cleaner. Above all, you can enjoy
the advantages and comforts of Frigidaire—per-
manent electric refrigeration.
Model 778 is only one of a large number of Delco-
Light models. Write for Booklet B and you will
receive particulars of the full range.
Distributors:—
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.—
307-15 Kent Street, Sydney
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.—
380-82 Bourko Street, Melbourne
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.—
233-35 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD.—
172-74 Pulteney Street, Adelaide
STEWART & MACLEAN PTY., LTD.—
104 George Street, Launceston
DELCO-LIGHT
Product of General Motors.


The COMMONWEALTH LIFE (Amalgamated)
ASSURANCES, LIMITED.
JAMES S. INCH, F.A.1.1.. General Manager.
Authorised Capital - - - - £500,000
Paid-up Capital ------ £150,000
Annual Income Exceeds £140,000
Payments to Policy-holders Exceed ----- £60,000
Every desirable form of Policy issued in rhe following departments:—
LIFE, ENDOWMENT, AND GUARANTEED BONUS POLICIES.
PERSONAL ACCIDENT AND SICKNESS, WITH NURSING AND HOSPITAL BENEFITS.
INDUSTRIAL ASSURANCES.
11l Ordinary Policies subject to Guaranteed Interim Bonus.
E. IT. HIGGS, Secretary.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
The Block, 424-30 George Street (between King and Market Streets), Sydney.
- I i'llMMillßnrranwnmmiMMMMWTl
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Quiet —Restful —Cool —Open to the Summer Sea Breezes. With Private Beach and Amphitheatre
Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service. Spacious Grounds and Garage
Accommodation.
Tariff from 4£ guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines),
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON. LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: HOLD
EVERYTHING.
CRITERION: LOMBARDI. LTD.
DICKARDS’ TIV O L I THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
TWICE EVERY DAY— 2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
I c. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
*** MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
(Commencing Saturday Next.)
BREWSTER’S MILLIONS.
KI NG ’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
WHOOPEE.
OOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
n MELBOURNE.
See and Hear, All Talking Special,
MASQUERADE.
With ALAN BIRMINGHAM and LEILA HYAMS.
ALSO
See and Hear
THE OFFICE SCANDAL.
With PHILLIS HAVER.
IRTH BRO S.’ CIRCUS.
Greatest Show on Earth.
GRAND JUBILEE YEAR.
OLYMPIA, MELBOURNE.
For a Season of Four Weeks only.
ALL NEW ATTRACTIONS.
Including the Greatest Pure White Polar and Brown
Bear Act in the World, at a cost of £5OOO.
Positively seen at Every Performance.
Prices: 2/-, 3/-, 4/-; Chairs, 6/-, plus tax.
Reserved Chairs, 8/-, plus tax.
Plan at Glen’s.
Nightly at 8 p.m.
Matinees: SATURDAY, WEDNESDAY and all
HOLIDAYS.
Regal Notice.
JAMES GRASSY, DECEASED.
PURSUANT to an order of the Supreme
Court of South Australia' dated the 9th
day of May 1929 and made in the matter of
the- estate of James Grasby deceased (late
of Hundred of Tickera in the State of South
Australia Farmer who died on the 19tli day
of May 1922) No. 304 of 1929 whereby the
following inquiry was directed : Who were the
next-of-kin of the said James Grasby at the
time of his decease a,nd whether any of them
are since deceased and if so who are their
al representatives
respective legal persons
NOTICE IS HEREBY
persons claiming to be entitled under the
said inquiry are on or before the 15tli day
of June 1930 to send by post prepaid to the
Public Trustee State Bank Buildings Pirie
Street Adelaide South Australia their full
Christian and surnames addresses and de-
scriptions and full particulars of their claims
Claimants are to attend personally or by
their solicitor before the Deputy Master at
his chambers Supreme Court House Victoria
Square Adelaide on the 15th day of July
1930 at 2.30 o’clock in the afternoon being
the time appointed for hearing and adjudicat-
ing upon their claims or in default thereof
they will be peremptorily excluded from the
benefit of the said order.
DATED the 12th day of October, 1929.
F. B. McBRYDE,
Deputy Master of the Supreme Court of
South Australia.
N.B. —James Grasby or Grassby is believed
to have come to Australia from India about
the year 1885.
Fisher, Powers and Jeffries, Adelaide.
South Australia, solicitors for the Public
Trustee.
If any illustration in The Butxetin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Meetings.
THE PERMANENT TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
LIMITED.
Incorporated bp Act of Parliament.
’"THE FORTY-SECOND ORDINARY
A GENERAL MEETING of Members will
be held at the Company’s Office on TUES-
DAY, 29th OCTOBER, 1929, at 2.15 p.m.
BUSINESS.
To receive Reports and Balance-sheet to 30th
September, 1929.
To elect one Director in place of .lames Muir,
Esq., who retires under Clause 82 of the Articles
of Association and who offers himself for re-election.
To elfcet Auditors in place of Messrs. C. A. Le
Maistre Walker and Co., Chartered Accountants (who
retire under Clause 131 of the Articles of Associa-
tion and are eligible for re-election), and to fix the
amount of their remuneration.
To consider any other business of which due
notice shall have been given in accordance with the
Articles of Association.
By Order of the Board,
J. W. BARNES, Manager.
The Share Register will be closed from
15th October, 1929, to 29th October, 1929.
inclusive.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE BUILDING,
22-25 O’Connell Street. Sydney.
15th October, 1929.
Missing Friends.
ILLS Circus. Where is it? Write
01 VENABLES & CO., Forbes.
T INTON, HERBERT, who lived at South
Yarra about MO years ago, will hear
something to his advantage if he communi-
cates with NATIONAL TRUSTEES COM-
PANY, 113 Queen Street, Melbourne.
DOSENTHAL. —Any person knowing the
*'■ whereabouts of VICTOR ROSENTHAL
(brother of Michael, Abraham, Simon Louis
and Hannclien Studinski, nee Rosenthal),
address in 1910 St. Michael, No. 71 Hunter
Street, Sydney, travelling jeweller, or his
wife or family—something of advantage—
please communicate with the EQUITI
TRUSTEES CO., LTD., 85 Queen Street
Melbourne.
HAIR
e?
need
|s|o
HERES
■unuj
d
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican V> alnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
SfrCULmS (.MEXICAN)
VkJxwJtStcJAt
''REMOVES the GREY *
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAJNSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct U/6), 6d. being postage.
CP
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
BRITISH
MADE
Perfection
robber
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISDANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Sociel Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Sir John and Lady Goodwin went to the
Guineas meeting at Ascot, her Ex. wearing
ash-rose crepe do Chine with a pink Baku
haft Mrs. N. A. 11. Campbell was in mastic
and brown bongnline with a hemp straw hat;
Mrs. Cecil Palmer was in platinum grey,
with black hat; Mrs. Duckett White wore
begonia pink. Mrs. Stanley Chapman was
smartly frocked in Nankin blue, with a brim-
less black cloche. Mrs. Barnes (Canning
Downs) wore black and red, and a gerbera-
red hat; Mrs. Arthur Clarke chose leaf-
green ; Mollie Brenan’s floral crepe de Chine
was worn with a black ballibuntal cloche.
Mrs. B. Fairburn was in russet brown, with
a beige felt hat.
Steady rain fell for the opening of the
additions to Liuga Longa, the C.W.A. sea-
side home, and Lady Goodwin donned her
mackintosh to perform the ceremony. Mrs.
J. P. Peterson did the welcoming, and handed
a bunch of pink carnations to her Ex., who
wore a rose repp coat over a patterned silk
frock, with a mastic hat. Mrs. Graham
Mylhe’s black and white silk was covered
by a black cloth coat, and she wore a black
hat. Mrs. Peterson was in navy crepe de
Chine, and Mrs. Plumridge all in black. The
Redlands branch donated a room to be called
the “Anne Taylor playroom”; and Hilda
Nicholson gave a doll’s house. Grey walls
and pretty nursery furniture complete this.
The new lounge was gay with flowers, and
there was tea for all.
At the Bush Book Club’s yearly survey
Mrs. Stanley Chapman and Mrs. McKinnon
received the guests at Albert House,. the
rooms being prinked up with watsonia and
vases of roses. Jean McTaggart sang, and
received a posy, and the club members saw
lo supper. Eight thousand books and thou-
sands of magazines were distributed during
the year. Chief Justice Blair presided.
Thanks were given for books and magazines
from Government House. Mrs. Chapman,
was re-elected president.
Colin Charles Stewart took Alex. Donald-
son to wife in St. Andrew’s kirk. Orange
blossoms, white watsonia, white roses and
lilies decked the church, with sprays of
orange bloom and white satin ribbons to
mark the guests’ pews. White satin
adorned the bride. A long white satin train
1 fell from her shoulders, and her Brussels-luce
'veil had a circlet of orange blossoms. She
a sheaf of Madonna lilies. Lorna
Stephens, Everil Trade and Miss B. Donald-
son attended in sleeveless frocks of white
taffetas over flounced underskirts of pink
tulle, with pale pink bandeaux. Posies
of pink roses were carried. White lilies
decorated Lennon’s ballroom for the break-
fast.
Mrs. Cum brae Stewart presided over the
N.C.W.’s welcome to Yuiki Kimura, secretary
of the Kyoto Y.W.C.A., in Albert House,
The room was bright with sweet-peas and
bowls of lilies and gumtips. Mrs. A. Bar-
ker presented the lady from Nippon with a
posy of cerise sweet-peas and roses. Mrs.
O'umbrae Stewart had to show an ancient
Japanese vase, an heirloom in her family.
Miss Kimura spoke about the friendship
existing between Australia and Japan. Freda
Bage and Miss M. A. Ogg thanked the visi-
tor, and Dr. Phyllis Cilento and Miss Nathan
Levine also spoke. Mrs. Cnmbrae Stewart
wore black lace over satin, with a touch of
saxe-blue. Miss Kimura was in chiffon fleur-
ette with a fur-rimmed velvet bridge-coal.
Mrs. A. J, Mallilieu wore black mariette.
Mrs. V. T. Manke.v and Merna Gillies con-
tributed music, Mrs. Barker arranging the
programme.
The Goodwins gave a dinner party at Gov-
ernment House to the Charles Taylors, H. M.
Russells, Kelsoes, V. H. Tozers, J. I*. Frys,
Y. F. Plunketts, Colonel and Mrs. Campbell,
Colonel Worthington Wilmer and Frank
Ryder.
Sir John Goodwin was at the annual
dinner of the Law Society, with E. K. Tully
in the ,chair. Ted Baines sang. There are
now 312 members.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Though ominous-looking clouds floated over
Ascot, there was no rain, and the roll-up
at the W.A.T.C. meeting exceeded all expec-
tations. The course looked well and there
was variety in the frocking. Lady Campion
occupied the v.-r. box in a black satin
ensemble relieved with white, and Mrs. Kerr
Pearse was alongside in soft grey silk with
Wedgwood blue headgear. Mrs. Jack Durack’s
smart beige race-coat was worn over rose and
black crepe de Chine ; sßetli Johnstone com-
bined navy with green, and Miss Maitland
Brown’s delphinium blue dipped at the sides.
Belle Cusack’s almond-green repp was worn
with an amber hat, and Mrs. Cecil Dent’s
navy creation disclosed an embroidered grey
vestee.
Queen’s Gardens proved to be the ideal
spot for the Lud Mayor’s garden-party. The
lawns were emerald, the gardens gay, and
many-hued water-lilies flourished in the wind-
ing canals forded by rustic bridges. Bands
played and Miss Fraser did some nymph-
like dances in pastel' draperies. Half the
guests came in old-world costume and
anachronically strolled with uniformed
R.A.F. officers. Beige lace and a wide black
hat garnished the Mayoress, who received
with Mr. Franklin in a bamboo-flanked en-
closure. Their Exes, were there, chatting
cheerfully, Milady in navy and nude georg-
ette with a fur-coat attached.
The Canberra lias departed, but the
functions aboard won’t be forgotten for some
time. The at-home was a bright affair
with flags waving, tea pouring and guests
exploring the ship. Commander and Mrs.
Griffiths Bowen. George Pearce and his lady,
James Mitchell and Iris lady and Brigadier-
General and Mrs. Jess were among those
who enjoyed naval hospitality. The officers’
dance, though not very large, was one ot
the cheeriest functions of the week.
Guildford Old Boys' dance is an annual
gathering which this year beat its attendance
record. Padre Freeth and his wife smiled
a benign welcome, she fluttering round in
sprigged lemon ninon and a hip-bow. Black
lace-and-georgette-elad Mrs. G. Sinclair
supped with them, and Sara Adamson
greeted old friends in leschenaultia blue
chiffon. Mrs. Bill Broun came in black
flecked with gold, and Mrs. Merton Clifton
in white satin with touches of pink. Lesley
Everett’s pink taffeta and tulle looked
charming, and Dorothy Suinmerhayes danced
in maize silk net.
Mrs. Howard Gwynne with daughter
Mildred and Mrs. Freddie Piesse with
daughter Ivatli have returned from their
European tour. Wedding-bells will shortly
ring for both the lassies, whose respective
fiances, Sid Bell and Edgar Grant, were
bright and early at the wharf to meet them.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Rear-Admiral Evans and his officers gave
a party on board the Australia in the Outer
Harbor, a delightful affair.
Supporters of Toe H had a successful
bridge party at their clubrooms to raise
funds for furnishing. The Toe II League
of Women Helpers looked after the supper,
and their efforts were approved. Thirty
tables were engaged with satisfactory finan-
cial results;
Barbara Howard, who has been studying
singing abroad, is here on a visit to her
mother, and one evening last week gave a
recital at the Town Hall, assisted by Harold
Parsons, with Alice Meegan as accompanist.
In spite of the slump in concerts there was
a good attendance.
Mr. and Mrs. 11. W. Ilodgetts started the
ball rolling in the matter of summer fetes
by having one in their garden in aid of the
Kensington Gardens Mission Church. Mrs.
Francis J. Fisher spoke the foreword. The
garden was a blaze of bloom, and many
friends foregathered.
F. A. Lakeman, who returned from Eng-
land by the Mongolia, was the guest during
his visit of Bishop and Mrs. Manner, old
friends who were at Bishop’s Court years
ago.
A fine old Cornisliman was W. H. Bishop,
just dead. He came to Australia as a boy
in 1865, and was with his family on the
copper-mines of Kapunda (long since worked
out) and Moonta (busy till lately). Then,
he turned to refreshment stalls, moved to
the city—where he claimed to have sold the
first Cornish pasty—took the restaurant long
famous as Kindermann’s, and built up a
big catering business.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
This bright face belongs to Nancy Cuff,
winner of the
nortli e r n
women’s golf
championsh i p
hi the recent
in atches at
K i n g As
Meadow s.
In the final
struggle be-
tween herself
and Mrs. .Cur-
tis she finished
one liole up.
She was also
victorious in
the mixed
doubles with
R. T. Brown,
and in the
inter - island
match she de-
feated Miss L.
Barclay, the
then Tasman-
ian champion.
There was a thin attendance at Elwick
for the first race meeting of the season, but
those who went out had a good day, the
Weather being mild, the fields large. The
O’Grady was met by the club’s chairman,
Dr. Lindsay Miller. In the throng were
Mrs. Tom Lyons, in black velvet ensemble;
Mrs. C. S. Agnew, back from her winter
trip to the mainland; the Alan Walkers,
the W. B. Propsting's, Commandant and
Mrs. Cox Taylor, the Bruce Gibsons, the
V. R. Rattens. Mrs. Claude Boag, Mrs.
Field Porter (Sydney), Mrs E. J. McCann,
Miss Agnew, Jean Mandevillc, Clytie
Forbes Young (Sydney), Alfred Ashbolt
and his lady, Dr. and Mrs. Sprent and the
David Merediths. The club’s profits swelled
the Consumptive Sanatorium’s funds.
His Ex., Premier McPhee, Commandant
and Mrs. Cox Taylor, Mayor and aldermen
and their better-halves, John Gellibrand
and his lady and a host of other notabilities
were at tiie Artillery Ball, held at the
Continental. The v.-r. party's lounge was
arranged in the smaller danceroom. The
bright colored uniforms and the pretty frock-
in g of the women made decoration super-
fluous, and a sprinkling of black gowns
enhanced the effect of brighter hues.
The J. J. Gatenbys gave a dance at Pisa,
Lake River, by way of bidding good-bye to
their many friends before settling in Maori-
land. The billiard-room and dining-room
were cleared for dancing, and the long
verandah was enclosed and furnished as a
lounge. Spring flowers made masses of color
everywhere, and the guests came from all
part's of the island. The Pisa estate now
passes into the hands of Askin Morrison,
late of St. Peter’s Pass, Oatlands.
The “Miniature Bush Nurses” ran a
bridge party at the Mayor’s courtroom to
help the Swansea representative, Peggy
Soundy. Thirty-six tables were set out, and
supper was served in an adjoining room.
Young things in bush nurses’ uniforms sold
sweets and flowers.
Yes, we have a very healthy climate. R.
R. Rex, head of the ship-chandlery firm of
Rex and Son, has just retired, hale and
hearty, at the age of 88. A biu roll-up of
his friends entertained him at the Imperial,
and presented him with a smoker’s stand and
many congratulations.


THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY—Price 3d.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.:
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in (Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
“I SU ppose it’s the spirit of adventure as
well as the fat profits that move white men
to break the Wild Birds Protection Ordin-
ance,” Blake continued thoughtfully. “It
must be. They undermine the white-man
foundations, they put an altogether unfair
burden on the district officers and the police.
And they are traitors to their own kind,
for, remember, we whites are in a minority
of three hundred to one. It is a dirty
game—debauching natives. We don’t fine
men who come at it. We gaol ’em, deport
’em.”
Lesley looked startled. “Oh!” she
faltered. “Has—has Hal been”
Blake nodded. “For months, perhaps for
years, aided by Sam Turver, he has been
systematically trafficking in birds-of-para-
dise. You asked for my confidence, Lesley.”
Blake made his revelation calmly, but
Lesley sensed that he was profoundly
moved.
“First, I’ll return to Sabadi’s ghosts.
Before I left Akupaka I paraded Sabatari,
the village constable. He promptly and
emphatically denied all knowledge of those
ghosts. Ridiculed the old man, in fact.
I let it pass without argument. I knew
that, for some purpose of his own, Sabatari
was lying. There were no ghosts at Aku-
paka the night I camped in the village.
Sabadi suggested that they were scared of
the police!”
To Lesley there came a memory of that
night—a memory
of Moragi, the boss-
boy, standing under
her window at mid-
night calling her
husband’s name; of
the secret confer-
ence on the back
verandah, of her
husband’s evasive-
ness the following
morning.
“Go on, Stephen,”
she said!. “I am
beginning to see.”
“On our way to
Laubogi, we called
at Sam Turver’s
place. He had been
on a jag and was in
a truly appalling
state. Turver has
been a thorn in my
side for years. I
did not believe he
was a bona-fide
trader at all. When
I discovered that the
entire contents of
his store might be
valued at twopence-
halfpenny, I hinted
that one day I
might ‘vag’ him. I
must have shocked
him, for immed'ately
he flashed a bank
passbook at me. A
down and out beach-
comber with a bank
account! It was very
surprising.
“You’ll recollect
that I spent the day
and the afternoon
at Laubogi. And all
the time I was on
the place I had a
feeling that I was
somehow in the way.
Your husband was
watchful, suspicious.
Once or twice you
started to say some-
thing, and he cut in
on you very cleverly.
He gave me a need-
lessly labored
account of his relations with his boss boy,
whom I had observed skulking in the village
while I was conferring with Sabadi.
“Then the bird-of-paradise swooped into
your garden. You told me, in effect, that
you had specimens of your own. If your
husband had not pulled you up very adroitly
you would have queered him, all right. Any-
how, you gave me my clue, but it didn’t come
to me until I was well on my way home.
“The Ghosts of Akupaka walked that
night. I had left Babaka behind for just
such a contingency. He saw the ‘devils in
the likeness of men,’ and he admitted to me,
quite without qualification, that they
scared him. I began to see daylight.
“When the Siai blew in I started to in-
vestigate Sam Turver’s business. I dis-
covered that Turver was in the habit of
shipping a few bags of copra by the Siai
each alternate trip. That month he shipped
eight bags. They were shipped on con-
signment, not to Port Moresby, but to an
obscure firm of ‘lsland’ brokers in Sydney.
You made out the shipping receipt, Lesley.
They dragged you into it.
“The copra was a blind, of course. Con-
cealed in the bags, protected probably by
tapa wrappings, were hundreds of bird-skins.
“Up to this point I was merely guessing.
My duty, however, was clear. I was con-
vinced that Sam Turver was smuggling
birds out of the country, and that he was
finding it highly profitable. I should have
seized his copra on suspicion. I should
have”
“You were fearful for me, Stephen,”
Lesley whispered. “Oh, dear!”
“The other night—the night before the
upheaval at Laubogi—the Ghosts of Aku-
paka appeared again. I saw them. We
lay hidden in the long grass beyond Aku-
paka. They came from the direction of
Cape Kabasi—‘devils in the likeness of
men.’ It was a clumsy, impudent fake, of
course. For New
Guinea, however, it
was quite a new de-
parture, and it was
very effective, up to
“‘Loana,’ he croaked.”
ft point. The perpetrators erred, how r ever,
when they forgot that not all natives are
ignorant, superstitious savages. Fellows
like my friend Sabadi and Sergeant Babaka
are hard to bluff. They ‘savee too much.’
“They were very much flesh and blood,
those spectres. They wore conical masks
such as the Gulf people use in their tribal
dances—and their shrouds were fashioned out
of ordinary unbleached calico. The shrouds
were made very loose fitting, leaving ample
room underneath for the contraband sus-
pended from the shoulders and round the
waist. The stroke of genius, the effect
designed to strike terror into the hearts of
the stoutest warriors in New Guinea, was,
of course, the luminous paint. Your hus-
band was in the habit of importing large
quantities of sulphide of calcium.”
Lesley shrugged impatiently. “What on
earth was the object? To me it sounds
just stupid.”
Blake laughed drily. “Your husband was
playing on the superstitions of the Akupaka
people, using the most effective means of
keeping them confined to their huts when
his expeditions were afoot. He had also
another object, an object Sabatari con-
fessed the following morning.”
It was now quite dark. Blake stood up,
stretching out a hand to Lesley.
“There isn’t much more,” he continued.
“As you know, the true habitat of the
bird-of-paradise is the mountains. The
hill people of this district are all under
control in a sketchy kind of way. They
would certainly have the ‘savee’ to betray
any white bird poachers to the first Gov-
ernment patrol that happened along. Both
Turver and your husband knew this, and
they made their plans accordingly. They
took Sabatari into their confidence. He
opened negotiations with the Davana people.
He explained to them that disembodied
spirits from Cape Ivabasi were plaguing
the Akupaka people. The Davana folk
recommended a certain kind of sorcery.
Sabatari explained that, in life, these par-
ticular ghosts owned the bird-of-paradise
as their totem; that they could be pro-
pitiated only by gifts of these birds; that
there were no birds worth mentioning on
the coast; that, in short, the people of
Akupaka would be eternally grateful to
their Davana friends if. out of their abun-
dance, they would supply Akupaka’s needs,
His Government uniform must have had
its effect; after much haggling they came
to terms. So many cocoanut shells filled
with salt to so many bird-skins, the birds to
be delivered at a certain point in the sago
swamp a few hours’ journey from Akupaka.
“Then Sabatari struck a snag. The Davana
headman was of an inquiring turn of mind.
‘Our skins creep for our Akupaka friends,’
he said, ‘yet I who am now an old man
have never seen devils who walk about like
men, demanding expensive presents. I have
a great desire, my friend, to look upon these
devils whereof you speak.’
“He saw them all right. Your husband
attended to that. All the elders of the
Davana tribes were given a glimpse of the
‘devils in the likeness of men.’ They fled,
shrieking to their villages, and thereafter,
every second month, paid fearful tribute
to the spirits of the dead.”
Blake opened the garden gate for Lesley
to pass through.
“And that,” he ended with a short laugh,
“is the inside story of the Ghosts of Aku-
paka.”
CHAPTER XXVI.
The Return to Laubogi.
For a week Harry Merton had been
drunk. To-night he was sober. Limp,
shaken, he wandered from room to room
noting with dazed eyes little intimate traces
of the girl who had loved him, betrayed
him and shamelessly deserted him. His
sodden brain still reeled under the shock of
Captain Barstow’s news; his half-crazed
mind could not grasp the fact that Lesley
had left Akupaka Bay for ever. Gone?
Not she! She was
still hiding her
shamed head at
Gabubu with old
Lorimer and his
daughter.
And Blake. Blake:
A paroxysm of cold
fury held him still
and tense. Pictures
of that last morning
passed before the
eyes of his soul in
mocking panorama
Lesley, holding
her lover’s hands,
adoring him with
her eyes, listening
as one entranced to
the poison that drib-
bled from the foul
fellow’s lips “Be-
cause, dear, there is
nothing I would
not” With a
bitter oath Merton
flung his wife’s for-
gotten possessions
from him and lurched
to the verandah.
He lost all count
of time as he sat
there, his eyes
straining into the
still, velvety night,
his lips drawn back-
in a snarl. Ugly
thoughts were shap-
ing themselves in
his brain. He would
“get” Blake. He
would break him as
one snaps a rotten
twig, bring him to
shame, hound him
disgraced out of the
service. There were
two hundred bird-
skins under lock and
key in the store.
To-morrow he would
destroy them. The
only tangible evi-
dence, the only kind
that counts with
juries, would go
up in smoke to-
morrow—no, to-night! Blake would be
laughed out of court, his story discredited,
as it was four years ago. Blake’s word un-
supported by concrete evidence, against
his! The word of a blackguard he had sur-
prised flagrantly making love to his wife
....on the verandah of his own house!
Who had committed an assault upon him
manhandled him! Merton chuckled.
To-morrow there would be a show-down in
Akupaka Bay. To-morrow he would settle
with Mr. Stephen Blake, R.M. Cool he
would be, curt, deliberate, impervious to
sympathy or appeal. He would enjoy him-
self—thoroughly. He would remind the dog
that he had beaten him before, that he had
beaten him again, that he could beat him
whenever and 'wherever he chose....
As for Lesley... .bah!... .the man who
brought a white woman to New Guinea was
a fool!
(Continued on next page.)


Be Fair
To Your Tyres
and save money
0
Modern motor car tyres roll up as-
tonishing mileage when properly
cared for. 20,000 miles and over arc
no longer uncommon records for
tyres of standard makes.
But by neglecting to check the air
pressure in your tyres you may reduce
their service as much as 25%-
Underinflated tyres puncture more
easily, are easy victims of fabric rup-
tures, rim cuts and side-wall breaks.
These are the things which shorten
the life of your tyres and mat the
pleasure of motoring.
It’s easy to save money
this way
Have your car 01 tyre dealer tell
you the correct pressure fot your
tyres. Then buy a Schrader T yre
Gauge, for balloon or high pressure
tyres, as you will require. The
Schrader Gauge is sturdy, depend-
able, easy to use, easy to read. Use
it frequently, once a week at least
and before long trips, to check the
actual air pressure. Always keep
your Schrader Gauge in your motor
car.
Long life to your Tyres!
Now you can join the thousands
of experienced motorists who keep
their tyres correctly inflated, and get
every last mile of service from them.
&
Sold by
Accessory Dealers
everywhere
chrader
Makers of Pneumatic Valves Since 1844
Tyre Valves a Tyre Gauges
A. SCHRADER’S SON, Inc.
Proprietary Limited
422 Little Collins St.
Melbourne, Australia
7
HOBART
FOR
HOLIDAYS
Hobart is one of the most
interesting cities in the
British Empire.
The second oldest city in
the Commonwealth, it
holds a wealth of historical
associations, while its
architectural beauty and
the majestic grandeur of
the surrounding country
make it a city of a thou-
sand delights.
From here one has easy
access to all the Beauty
Spots and Health Resorts
of the island.
The climate is ideal and
invigorating. Breathing
it, you preserve your
bloom and vivacity, and
age gives place to youth.
Particulars from
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAU,
Ocean House, 34 Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
A Doctor'
The youngster's cuts, scrapes and
bruises all need Zam-Buk's quick clean
healing, Mother happens a burn or scald
but with a touch of Zam-Buk pain is soon
forgotten. Zam-Buk subdues swelling
inflammation, prevents festering and
causes hew skin to grow.
Always Handy
Zam-Buk with its antiseptic and germ-
icidal properties is particularly valuable
for those infectious skin and scalp dis-
eases, which attack children. It is a
fine thing for eczema, bad legs, boils,
abscesses, sore feet, haemorrhoids, etc.
ZAM-BUK
116 & 3/6 box. All chemists.
Children Ask For \t
PROVED !
Those advertisers who are in the position to
test results have proved time and again that
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE.
is definitely the finest result-getter in all Queensland.
It is more than 50 years younger than its morning contemporary.
Its circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be greater
than any other Queensland daily, and its influence and reader-value
are certainly unsurpassed.
Rate cards, specimen copies, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-94 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
He would take a bracer. He felt that
he needed one badly. He dragged himself
to his feet and pouring whisky into a
tumbler, splashed it with soda and took a
gulp.
Even as he swallowed it the glow of the
spirit was chilled by a twinge of fear. Some-
thing stirred in the darkness. Somebody
was abroad in the night.
“Who is there?” he called harshly.
The dragging footsteps came nearer. They
halted at the steps. There sounded a faint
sigh. Somebody was mounting the steps.
“Loana!” he croaked.
The girl stood before him with out-
stretched hands, smiling shyly,, pleadingly.
“I have come, Hari,” she said.
Merton stared at her with narrowed half-
fearful eyes. “You must go, girl. At once!”
Loana shook her head. “Not so, my Hari.
Wherefore should I go? The sinabada has
fled; to-night she sleeps aboard the Siai.
And I, Loana, have returned.”
A thick laugh broke from Merton. He
sagged into his seat. Loana brought the
whisky bottle to him, and curled herself
at his feet.
“They do not savee, these sinabadas,”
she told him gravely. Her hand reached
upwards and held his.
Merton sat without movement. Loana
was speaking again, but he was not listen-
ing. He tried to think clearly, but all his
thoughts were jumbled. He must send her
away. She was fond of him, Loana. But
she must clear out. His lips framed words
of dismissal, but he could not utter them.
“Your head is no good, Hari.” Loana’s
voice was musical. “Drink, my Hari. They
do not savee, these sinabadas.”
The spirit coursed through his veins like
liquid fire. He would be firm send her
home.
The bottle tilted again.
Often he had sat like this with Lesley.
Soft nights, scented nights and Lesley
at his feet. Often years ag0....
centuries ago in the flowering time of his
life
Again the bottle tilted.
There were arms round his neck soft
arms.. . .cool, clinging arms. Often she had
sat in his lap like this Lesley years
ago centuries ago Many times he
had felt her arms Lesley’s arms
clasping him tightening while sweet,
stinging flames consumed him
Another drink a small one.
He was drowsy. To-night he might sleep.
A blissful sense of peace descended upon
him. He must be good to Lesley kind
to her. She was a wonderful girl Lesley.
They said she had run away with Blake.
Liars! Her kind didn’t. They didn’t
didn’t.
Tighter, those arms were cool arms....
round, dimpled arms.... Lesley’s. They set
your pulses dancing unleashed mighty
magic played music on a fellow’s heart
strings. Sweet she was Lesley frag-
rant as a flower He was lucky
lucky
She was choking him.... Mustn’t choke
your hubby, sweetheart. Mustn’t mustn’t
.... warm her lips were.... Lesley’s....
Lesley’s warm and sweet and....
“My God!”
He sprang to his feet with a scream of
horror. Loana clung to him panting, moan-
ing and he stood swaying, tiying to free
himself from her. He tore at her, struggled
with her, cursed her. Then with a mighty
effort he tore himself free, and threw her
from him. Loana screamed once, then lay
still, watching him with eyes that blazed.
Merton stared stupidly, then threw up his
arms and staggered blindly into his room.
* * * *
The rising sun was kindling the world into
life and color when Blake’s whaleboat
grounded on the beach at Gabubu.
“Moor her well out, Sergeant,” he ordered,
‘From here we take Mis’ Lorimer’s launch.”
The launch-boy was already turning over
the engine, and Lesley’s luggage was stowed
forward. She had not wavered from her
purpose of returning to Laubogi, Blake
reflected grimly. She was going through
with it. She was game.
He found Tod Lorimer in sole possession
of the verandah, fussing over a tea tray.
The old man seemed a trifle ill at ease.
“’Mornin’, Steve!” he muttered without
looking up. “Meant to send a message to
you before y’ left.”
Blake looked at him in surprise.
“A message, Tod?”
“Lesley’s changed ’er mind again,” Tod
explained. “ ’Bout you, I mean, Steve.
Reckons she don’t want you to go to Lau-
bogi with ’er.”
“That,” he said at last, “has all been
thrashed out. I’m going right ahead, Tod.”
“ ’Ave some tea, Steve,” Lorimer invited
hastily. “The girls’ll be on deck in ’alf a
jiffy. I promised Lesley I’d put it to you
to back out. I dunno but wot y’ didn’t
orter, Steve.”
Blake looked at the old man uncomfort-
ably.
“You’ve changed your tune since yester-
day,” he remarked. “I’m not looking for-
ward to the trip with any degree of pleasure.
In fact I hate the thought of it. But”
he shrugged. “You understand, Tod.”
“It means trouble for you, lad.”
“It means worse for Lesley,” Blake re-
torted warmly.
“All the same,” Tod said thoughtfully,
“y’ll be well advised to give the little
lady ’er ’ead.” He paused. “I told y’
vesterday that y’ dunno the ’alf of wot that
girl ’as gone through at Laubogi. I’ll pass
you some information that’ll maybe knock
you sideways.” Then glancing cautiously
around him he whispered long and confi-
dentially.
“Great Scott!” Blake ejaculated at the
end. “She can’t go back there, Tod. It’s
simply unthinkable.”
“Keep that bit of news under y’ ’at,
Steve,” Tod went on. “Lesley’d be sick
with shame if she thought I knew anythin’
about it. Now, Steve, I’ll tell y’ somethin’
wot she don’t know ’erself. Loana was
with Merton all that night at Laubogi,
Steve.”
“Good God!” Blake exploded. “Why in
the name of” He was too furious to
continue.
“Y’ see now, Steve, why I was so wild
with you yesterday. If y’ ’adn’t took to
Merton with y’ ’ands, there ain’t a court
in the land wot wouldn’t ’ave give ’er ’er
freedom at the first time of askin’.”
“You are positive she knows nothing about
Loana?” Blake cut in.
“Positive, Steve. She’s never even ’eard
of ’er. I c’n ’ear them cornin’. For the love
of Mike, Steve, don’t let on y’ know any-
thin’ about the night she slept at Turver’s
—and ’ow she got there.”
Blake greeted Lesley ■ awkwardly but
determinedly.
“Tod has given me your message, Lesley.
I cannot permit you to go alone to Lau-
bogi.”
Lesley stamped her foot at that.
“Cannot permit?” she echoed. “You em-
ploy strong terms, my friend.”
Blake looked hurt, bewildered.
“Forgive me, Stephen.” Lesley was sud-
denly contrite. “But I shall—I must go
to Laubogi alone. It is for the best, be-
lieve me.”
Blake frowned, shaking his head.
“It is not a bit of use your trying to
deceive me, Stephen. You have already
jeopardised your career for me. You shall
not sacrifice it entirely. Confess When
you have finished with Hal, you intend to
send in your papers.”
Blake colored.
“It is a sacrifice I refuse to accept,”
Lesley said.
“Nevertheless, I am coming with you,”
Blake flashed.
She turned abruptly. “If you come with
me you do nothing and you say nothing.
You come as my escort only. Do you
agree?”
Blake nodded. He followed her in silence
to the landing.
(To bo concluded next week.)
King’s Privilege.
The daily hours of toil you sell
For bread and lilies bring their due
In more than silver; and ’tis well,
For with the hand the heart works too,
Though true heart never bargain knew.
’Tis craftsman’s wisdom through the ages—
For that gift which is part of you
You dare not ask for wages.
There is a recompense indeed
In labor that is fairly wrought,
But if you seek for other meed,
Or if the heart for gold be bought,
Whence then is inspiration caught,
For dreams draw not to gilded cages?
Nay, since the vision comes unsought,
You dare not ask for wages.
And if you work for love or fame,
Nor care how riches may befall,
Because within you is the flame,
And through your being thrills the call,
Bethink you his desert is small
Who every pain of toil assuages
With hope of gaining all for all,
And dares to ask for wages.
For hands may reach for what they earn,
But hearts are kings, and this presages,
Siuce kings give, asking no return,
Hearts may not ask for wages.
WESTRAI.IA.
ETHEL DAVIES.
Tomes.
Put up the tomes that help to spell
The tales of the great and true;
I'm in need of the tomes that tell
The things that are left to do.
When caverns of expression gape,
And the seers light their lamps,
I want the notions that escape
And the beauty that decamps.
For men but love what their love will hold,
They hate what they will to hate,
They muster fancies inside a fold
And then Art locks the gate.
And the people come to the ballet show
Of curious, captured things:
But the truths that stir my favor flow
Beyond all capturings.
Lawgivers, princes, poets spoke,
And honor’s upon their graves;
But what sang the oxen to the yoke?
What like was the voice of slaves?
All of your miracles done and said —
These are babel, morass;
What gives my heart its rugged stead
Is the unrecorded mass.
The disregarded? Say, who makes
The canon of disregard?
I love the urchin thought that breaks
The rank of the scholar-guard.
So I will not say my song to flowers,
For these are near and known,
To dying suns or fleeting hours
Or the violet by the stone.
For the things that impress me most of all
Are the things that no words touch;
When lords show fight and empires fall,
It doesn’t concern me much.
Historians moo of undying dead—
I spurn their clanking brains;
But the lost, the forgotten, the left-unsaid
Have put my heart in chains.
VICTORIA.
FURNLEY MAURICE.


m
mm is
V*
m
%
■s
Often wonder tokai ine-
Vintners but)
One Half so precious
as the Goods
tkey J$V a o v)arn
I
ft
% *&
m
■» .
m
m K
A J
*y
m
m
; v ,
'
x»o\-.v^w
®5eT
• -:■•• -
SRig
isattsi
„, ■ ■
.A
v
P
L
m
wi
mm
m
m*-


arfi > f
■J ®
adks.
4: JckJW-
3s^
\\\
*v
%
/in
J
/
&&
vs
s
N
Ss
I
<J
ip v
r<i ~
\\
$ \
o- \ J
are
So. 620 "4711”
Powders, perfumed
with "4711” Eau
de Cologne, 2/6 St
3/6 per box.
No. 642 Compact
Ponder, perfumed
with "4711” Tosea,
4/6 each.
The Summer QirVs
Preference!
The universal popularity
of the Blue and Gold
labelled Eau de
Cologne is due to the fact
that, for nearly 150 years,
it has been made from the
finest ingredients, according,
to the original recipe. It never
varies in quality, and its pur-
ity, fragrance and strength
have never been
surpassed.
When buying Eau de
Cologne insist upon the
Blue and Gold labelled
"mr
c-
sOUßtg
w
rsr*
J, .SIOCK£NJnSS£
EAU DE COLOGNE
No. 43
Watch Shape
2/3
No. 5
Original Shape
6/6
No. 50
The new she
which holds as
much as 20 of
the 2/3 size,
30/-; and sizes
from 1/6 to
TSJ- per bottle.
DU] DE COLOGNE
Will noi congeal
An unequalled
Shampoo for the hail
No. 951 "4711’
Eau de Cologne
Liquid Shampoo,
3/- per bottle. Rose
and Eau de Cologne
perfume.
m
m
No. 475 "4711”
bath Salts, per-
fumed with "4711”
Eau dc Cologne.
3/6. 4/6 & 5/6
per bottle.
No. 859 "471 1”
Eau de Cologne
Soap, 1/3 per cake.
Eau de Cologne and
Lavender Perfume.
Obtainable from all leading
chemists and departmental
stores.
yrozodono
£SI
Cologne
No. .110 "4711”
"Frozoclone K
'Solid Eau de
Cologne, 3/6 &
4/6.
rea
•yerd^ixffic
■
I
/
j*2
No. 463 "4711”
Cold Cream
1/9, 3/- & 3/9
No. 453 "4711”
Vanishing
Cream,
1/3, 2/3 & 3/-
mil.
:Eau de
Cologne


The Finest Gun Dogs
In England
are fed regularly on Ken-L-Ration, the
dog food supreme. Rich in food value.
FREE Sample Tin sent to any address
in the Commonwealth.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from
W. C. SCHWAB
P. O. Box 1821, Melbourne
Ken-T -Ration
HOW A SHILLING GROWS
One shilling per week deposited regularly in the Common-
wealth Savings Bank will, in years, reach a total of £lOO
—provided that the deposits are regular and the interest is
allowed to remain in the Savings Account.
Here, however, is the real point. Of the £lOO mentioned in
this example, you deposit only a little over £6l. The Common-
wealth Savings Bank provides the balance in compounded
interest— -over one- third of the total.
Idle money earns no profit. Set your shillings to earning as
well as accumulating.
Commonweal savmas JBank of Australia
(Guaranteed bv the Commonwealth Government).
Bright with Color
Gtnerous in their
Shaae
1 ight — Cool —
and Comfortable
ď
We "SENORITA”
BEACH HAT
Holiday Hats, bright with theit coloured
bindina and pom-poms, the true t>panish
type of head-gear, of varnished pressed
straw waterproof will not
crack may De rolled. All
Sizes. Price —
8/6
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street. Brhh'ine
The Diplomatic Soul.
OSMAR E. WHITE
REPORTS HOW RUPERT CARMICHAEL PERSUADED
MS WIFE THAT HE WAS THINKING ONLY OF HER.
iT was told in Tarleton’s rooms at the
Australia, where we had gathered to
celebrate the conclusion of the session
and to drown the cares of State in tobacco
smoke and a few drops of Scotch; it was
the only yarn that 1 have heard Rupert
Carmichael tell, for he is a dull dog, as befits
a Judge’s associate. The only point with
which I need impress you regarding him
is that lie was at the Landing in 1915, where
be won a D.S.O. and an M.C. His Cross
of the Legion of Honor came after the 1917
campaign on the Somme.
“You gentlemen,” lie said, “have been
speaking of industrial psychology and the
natural vocation of the worker. Now / was
born to be a diplomat—not to record his
Honor’s witty remarks in shorthand. I am
an opportunist.”
“Why not a soldier?” asked his Honor,
for lie’ knew that Carmichael, like most
returned men, detested reference to his
soldiering days.
“Alas!” said Carmichael, with a heavy
expression of regret, “I am an independent
soul. Worse than that—l am a fearful soul.”
We laughed politely.
“Courage,” said his Honor, in his best
summing-up manner, “is chiefly a matter of
individual sensibilities—or lack of them.”
“True,” said Carmichael, squirting the
siphon into his whisky-glass. “Listen, and
I’ll tell you why I was born to be a diplo-
mat. My wife has been to Switzerland.”
“Indeed?” Tarleton’s manner was sarcasti-
cally incredulous, but I nudged him to keep
quiet.
“Switzerland,” continued Carmichael,
ruminatively, “is, I believe, an area of
Europe, one half of which is up, and the
other half down.
“My wife, it happens; is one of those
beings gifted by God who can contemplate
a 500 ft. drop three inches from her toes
with unquickened pulse; -and, who will climb
anything that a woman can climb, without
seriously injuring her dignity—and a good
deal that a woman can’t. She has a dis-
tressing habit of airing those particular
gifts.
“We went to New Zealand for our honey-
moon. Marjorie, being a bride (God bless
her!), whispered ‘Southern Alps.’ The South-
ern Alps it was. That, gentlemen, is another
part of the world wdiere the Lord has man-
aged to corrugate a considerable area of land
into a very small space. Not that I mind
mountains—from a distance. But I don’t
skate, I don’t ski and I don’t like toboggan-
ing. But there you are: the bride wanted
to go, and the bride went.
“Not content with remaining on. the com-
parative level, where I could lounge around
with the other fellows, she must make off
to a certain chalet under the lee of Mt.
Brewster, where some damned fool had told
her there was a genuine, emigrated Swiss
guide.
“Like most such chalets, it had a young
glacier and a snowfield at the back door.
The rubicund owner told me, with pride in
his voice, that Mt. Brewster had accounted
for three English tourists during the pre-
ceding season. Marjorie overheard him, and
straightway was kindled in her breast the
fires of ambition.
“Unknown to me, she held converse with
the Swiss, Henry, and delighted his cheese-
impregnated soul by speaking German of a
sort. Henry consulted another mountain-
made dolt named Malvern, a degenerate New
Zealander. That afternoon I was informed
that we were going to climb Brewster in
the morning.
“Marjorie, poor girl, knew nothing of the
gnawings of refined terror that racked me.
I have always hated heights and I always
■will. In vain I protested that the technique
of climbing did not interest me —that I con-
sidered it a waste of time and energy.
“She insisted on gloating over an infernal
length of rope which, she told me, was the
genuine English article-informed me, from
time to time, that it was guaranteed to
stand so many pounds direct strain, and how,
when I went climbing without her, I was
never, on any consideration, to use any
other than tested rope with a red strand run-
ning through it; and how necessary it was
for the rope to be well greased and looked
after. Then, to make the agony worse, she
went into the other room and discussed the
hazards, of the climb in piercingly bad Ger-
man with Henry, and tested the thongs of
the alpenstocks on the logs outside the house.
“At dinner-time an American woman
dropped in. She had been on a walking-tour
through the Alps—on her own from Mt.
Cook. Marjorie found in her a kindred soul,
and by supper-time was willing to share the
unique honor of being the first woman to
climb Brewster. As there w T ere no more
tor?“S’ingteas!
“We .were away before three in the morn-
ing, trudging along on the skirts of the
tumbled moraine that fringed the ice-flow r .
The first glimmer of dawn had not yet shown
j, n td,e eastern sky when we halted for break-
fast m a hut that covered under the forbid-
(|in„- ] ee 0 f a ;><j<jft. cliff of basalt. I. was
a jbeastly morning—damp, with a knife-
edged breeze, which cut clean through the
two inches of wool and leather that covered
my shivering hide. I was never much of
a cold-resisting man ; I just buried my head
deeper in the collar of my jacket and tried
to look cheerful and make the best of it.
“When dawn came, Henry struck out
across the ice and we got into harness. Mal-
vern, the other guide, brought up the rear,
“The first thing I did was to stamp
through a rotten snow-crust and hang dang-
ling by a slender thread of rope over the
bluey-green depths of a crevasse. Even
before they had fished me out Marjorie told
me I was a clumsy ass and the Yank woman
cracked an ironic jest. _ Iso one seemed to
take it in the least seriously—barring me.
1 merid.v thanked them, coughed with hauteur
and misery, and moved on.
“By sunrise we had. started the ascent
proper and were crawling, fast roped, and
like so many flies, up the precipitous edge
of a shaky snowfield; crossing airy ice-
bridges with an inch or two to spare on
either side and the red roof of the chalet
staring up at me when I ventured to look
down—a thousand feet below! I have no
shame in admitting that a cold sweat of
fear bathed me from head to foot. I am
not built for that sort of thing.
“Marjorie and the American woman
seemed to be experiencing the keenest, exliil-
aration; and now and then Henry and Mal-
vern exchanged musical shouts which I was
later informed were yodels.
“At the halt for breakfast No. 2—l believe
that it is etiquette to eat two breakfasts
before climbing a mountain —and while we
were waiting for the coffee to boil, Marjorie
took my hand and whispered of the thousand
delights the high world held for her.
“‘See that rock-cliute?’ she whispered in
my ear. ‘We’ll see who’swho there. Henry
said the English party fast year slid down
800 ft. of that rock in a blizzard and brought
up against the pines at the bottom. Thank
Heaven it’s fine to-day!’ She said it as if
offering some little comfort.
“ ‘The worst place, I am told, Mr. Car-
michael,’ ventured the American woman,
‘is right near the summit. You follow that
black tongue of rock near the snow crest?
Well, Malvern reckons there’s a chimney
there—preliminary to some tricky ledge-work.
Guess we’ll have to stroke our rabbit’s foot
some getting around that corner! The last
hundred feet sure ought to provide us with
some little di-version.’ She laughed nastily.
“How the devil these lunatics expected me
to climb that smooth rock-face beat me
entirely. Still, I couldn’t back out at this
stage and save my fade. I calculated the
possibilities of being able to sprain an ankle,
but turned it down as being too painful—
and unworthy. I looked up at that precipice
in a frowning agony of apprehension. Yet
nothing on earth could induce me to tell her
how almighty scared I was. I just smiled
woodenly and said how much I was enjoying
myself.
“Whatever terrors the snowfields had held
for me they were nothing to the feeling of
awful dread that assailed me as we moved
up the sheer mountainside, tortuously, get-
ting farther and farther away from solid
ground with every step. I clambered from
ledge to ledge, crevice to crevice, mechani-
cally. my fingers cramped, my body cold with
funic.
“Twice I slipped, and was held kicking
over nothing. The first time it was high up
on the shoulder of a spur, where the wind
ripped across the gulf, threatening to tear
my all-too-wealc fingers from their precari-
ous hold on the ice-cased rock. I remember
it distinctly—as distinctly as. anything in
my life. It is a peculiar thing how fear
sharpens one’s sensibilities. Every inch of
skin on my body registered its peculiar sen-
sation.
“We had crawled up a 2ft. ledge for some
300 ft., and were spreadeagled, all five, looking-
for a possible way to climb on to the next
ledge, which ran parallel to it, 20ft. up.
Henry grunted something and threw up a
length of rope, in what he called a belay,
over a projecting pie'ce of rock. Then he
clambered up, hand over hand, almost care-
lessly. Marjorie, in turn, picked her way
up daintily and certainly, making use of
every tiny jutting rock and crevice.
“Now it was my turn. I cast one glance
at the sickening void and the feathery tops
of the trees about the chalet and stepped out
—into nothing. My wits had completely de-
serted me. Don’t laugh, gentlemen—l assure
you it was nothing to laugh at! But Marjorie
knew her sport; the rope was taut, and I
dropped hardly six inches. ‘Get up, you
God-damned fool!’ I heard her say, very
clear and sharp. ‘This is no place to try
your silly business.’
“Henry, well suppressed from birth, con-
tented himself with looking mildly reproach-
ful. I can see his big moon face looking down
at me now, with its draggled moustache and
air of mild condemnation.
“I felt my white face flush with the rebuke,
and, reflecting that at least we were roped
together, I took the cliff.
“My God ! Over 1200 ft., you fellows —it
gives me stomach-ache to think of it even
now!
“But a man will go a devil of a long
way to stand well with a woman; and,
asi it was, it didn’t look as if I was
making too good an impression on my
bride. In any case, scared as I was to go
forward, I was far more scared to go back.
“The next place where I made a fool of
myself was near the summit, in the chimney.
We went up with buttocks and feet braced
against the walls. Three-quarters of the
way up I looked down—and then found that
I could neither ascend nor descend. I
relaxed to think the situation out —and
dropped a fathom, dragging the two others
with me. Thanks to liis eternal prepared-
ness, Henry had slipped a loop of rope about
a boulder. It held.
“Marjorie swore at me daintily and vilely,
and in silence we made the top.
“It was a hundred feet from the summit
that I met my Waterloo. Here “fit is that
you have to crawl, stooping nearly double,
around an 18in. ledge, indented in* the per-
pendicular rock. The ledge slopes outwards
at an an gif of 45 degrees. At the end of it
you spring over 4ft. of nothing into a
crevice; then you swing round a projecting
corner, hanging by the fingers. After you
have swung yourself far enough you let go
and jump; and after some other totally in-
comprehensible movements you can walk up
to the top! Quite simple it would be —if
the drop was four or five feet.
“I crawled around that Oin. ledge all
right—it gdts smaller as I think of it. At
the end of it I stopped and waited for
my wife to get around the corner. Her lips
were a bit hard-set, and I noticed that her
cheeks had an extra flush of color in them.
We were huddled together for a few seconds
while Henry rigged his belay. I tried to
take her hand, but she slapped it affray and
stepped out impatiently.
“Marjorie let go—as was necessary—
jumped, and fell. I felt it in my bones
that she was going to fall from the moment
she moved forward. A yell that was strangled
before it was born welled up in my throat
and choked me. Violently I hurled myself
backwards, and she was nearly cut in two
by the sudden jerk of my rope. I lay numbed
and befuddled with fear on the slippery
shelf, with Marjorie slowly dragging me to
the edge, inch by inch.
“But the jerk had brought her in reach
of a cranny, and she scrambled breathless
and white beside me. My arm and leg
were wavering over Eternity.
“ ‘Well,’ the American girl behind me
said nasally and laconically, ‘l’ll tell the
world that was a dam’ smart move of yours,
Mister Carmichael —I didn’t think that you
knew enough!’
“Marjorie breathed ‘Good man, Rupert!'—
and went at it again.
“These suicidal idiots of people seemed
to think that I had done it on purpose! I
almost regretted my choice of a wife.
“Marjorie’s voice floated to me around the
corner. ‘Come on, Rupert!’
“Come on ! I was still flat on my back,
unable to move.
“An impatient twitch of the rope nearly
settled my account —at least I thought ll
did. My alpenstock slid over, and I watched
it twirling and spinning slowly down. It
seemed an eternity before it hit bottom on
a jagged piece of rock. I looked up at the
black cliff-face and the twisted strata —the
cold, smooth, weathered side —then down
again at the smoke in the valley. There was
open space above and below, and I imagined
myself spinning like that ice-axe down to
a filthy, mutilated death.
“It was the last straw. My bones turned
to water. I could smell things with queer
distinctness- —and hear, too. The . words
forced themselves out: ‘l’m not coming.’
“There was silence for a minute. Then :
“ ‘Don’t be an ass. Hurry up. We’re
going to have a job getting bach before
dark, as it is.’
“ ‘lt’s quite useless, Marjorie,’ I said with
freezing dignity. ‘I am not comir g.’
“Her voice was anxious. ‘Whrc’s wrong?’
“ ‘Nothing. Merely that lam not coming.’
“ ‘You can’t mean that yo i’re funking
it!’ *
“ ‘Yes.’ This very briefly.
“ ‘Don’t be a fool, Rupert. Here —wait a
minute. I’m coming around.’
“She did. She came carelessly—almost
nonchalantly—around that hell-trap of a
corner. The rock seemed to be pushing her
out into space, threatening to tear the grip
of those little brown fingers from their
negligible hold on the hostile cliffside • she
clambered agilely across a bare space before
she jumped; balanced like an acrobat on
a tiny projecting crag; then crouched at
my side.
“Her face was red and her eyes stormy.
Henry came down over the top on his rope,
which had been made fast, and looked at
me sympathetically.
“ ‘You mean that you’re frightened to
come?’ she asked incredulously.
“ ‘Yes,’ I said sullenly.
“I heard the American girl behind me
snigger unpleasantly. It had no effect but
to make me firmer.
“Marjorie’s glance was calculated to have
been as devastating as the fall would have
been. Her breast rose and fell with bottled
scorn and rage.
“ ‘Henry,’ she said, ‘unrope me.’
“Henry stared at her owlishly for a
moment.
“ ‘No,’ he said.
“There was no more expression in his
moon face than if it had been carved out
of some of his own odorous white cheese.
“ ‘Right,’ she snapped. ‘Lead on back.
Malvern.’
“Malvern led on back. And so it came
about that we crawled dowm without having
conquered the redoubtable Brewster.
“Strange to say, I negotiated the difficult
parts on the return journey with a near-
careless skill that made Henry look at me
curiously. I felt buoyed up, for I was con-
vinced that I had won a moral victory. I
rolled defiant eyes at slippery places that
had scared me half-silly a short two hours
before.
“We arrived back in the pitch dark.
Marjorie, who was quite rude to the Ameri-
can girl, packed up there and then.’’
Carmichael grinned and filled his pipe. We
waited without a word.
“Well,” he went on, “there was the dip-
lomatic sequel to the affair a year or so
(Continued on page 57.)
“MERRY CHRISTMAS!”
One of the judges in “The Bulletin’s” First Novel Competition
wrote: “It is worth plodding through a hundred bad to middling
yarns when there’s such a prize as ‘Merry Christmas!’ waiting for
you at the end. It will not get in the first three. It isn’t good
enough literature for that. But there’s more fun in it than in any
of the others—more fun than in a hundred of the others put
together. And it’s the purest Australian. The man who wrote it
knows his Outback from A to Z. I don’t, as I said, recommend it
for a place, but I write this memo, to recommend ‘The Bulletin’
on no account to miss publishing it as a serial.”
Begins Nov. 6. Arthur Groom is the author. Harry J. Weston
will be the illustrator.


Banking, Public Companies, etc.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock
Preference Shares
Long Term Mortgage Shares
Ordinary Shares . .
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
GRANTS DRAFTS
Great Britain and Ireland
£529,988
1,875,000
703,125
3,750,000
4,042,591
Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADEbAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TEI'RACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 985,000
£2,235,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,485,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at. the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W. 0.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Its Field The Earth
By every means of transportation
Cuticura has reached the farthermost
parts of the world, and for fifty years
has been regarded by millions as un-
rivaled in the promotion of skin and
hair health. Most of the nations of
the earth that rejoice in the cleansing
and purifying properties of Cuticura
have in some degree contributed to
its ingredients. Thus it is of the world
and for the world.
Soap Is., Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment address:
I *‘R. Towns & Co., Sydney. N. S. W.”
surer- Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N Z TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN CLUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISLAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAL ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNEL CLUB
N.Z. GOLF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. POLO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of th* World'* Leading
Advertising Agencies.
“THE WOMAN’S
i
PRICE .. ..
MIRROR.”
. .. 3d,
Contains everything a woman needs to Tcnow.
Shipping, eic.
s umm
is
€/*
&
...
.4*l
NTOW you may see Hawaii
ij and shoot the breakers
in the matchless surf
of Waikiki Beach. And no
more desirable holiday can
be planned than a Union
Company Excursion Tour to
Hawaii that lovely island lost in the South Seas, lazy and laughing in
sunshine. Canadian-Australian Liners, now commencing summer excursion
runs, will carry you with comfort and enjoyment through calm seas, opening
the fascinating book of travel at New Zealand, Fiji and Honolulu. Plan
to sail on one of the following dates:
November 14 December 12 January 9 February 6
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne, £.l.
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINE
Excursions to Hawaii
BURNS-PHILP TOURS
java
(The Wonderland of the East).
OLD BUDDHISTIC AND HINDUISTIC TEMPLES—NATIVE BAZAARS.
EXCELLENT BIG-GAME SHOOTING. BEAUTIFUL TROPICAL SCENERY.
EXTENSIVE TEA GARDENS. INTERESTING PEOP.LE.
Regular monthly sailings by the favorite vessels
“MARELLA” (7500 tons) and “MALABAR” (5000 tons).
The Beautiful Solomons
Full of interest and. romance and situated only seven days
steaming n.-e. of Sydney. The comfortable and popular
S.S. MAT ARAM sails from Sydney on November 1 3 and
December 21, visiting 30 picturesque Island Ports.
ROUND TRIP 4\ WEEKS. FARE £4l
Write for Pamphlet No. 52/S to
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
&
>;V-
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1811
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
d
£7,500,000
5,900,000
7,500,000
£20.900,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30. 1928, £88.982,585.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
554 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Dills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND - 4,200,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL - - - 4,739,012 10 0
£13,678,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN ( Chairman ) ;
Hon JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND; Major-General
the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc,
BRISBANE, viaBYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening ; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. NVOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Set*
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/6/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £ 3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Pliilp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart Parked
MagiifFloent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars appIy HUDDART PARK Elt LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Si.root, Sydney.
f f
m
i#
f-j
Actual
The complete satisfaction, that
only perfection brings, more
than justifies the fastidiousness
that will insist on—
“la corona*
HALFA- C ORONA
Keep hopping ad hoping if you
to succeed — .think of
aAA)
SCHUTE,
BELL & Cu»
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Officer 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin take--
your fancy, write to the Manager, who wilt
quote you price for tne original.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
%
ď
đ
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors —
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.


rnrnmmmmm
m
Not only in mechanical efficiency but also in coachwork of
fine appearance and luxurious comfort, Sunbeam leads the way.
Its high road speed, ease of control, security of braking and
stability under all conditions ensure a performance of excep-
tionally high standard.
Sunbeam cars for the Australian market are specially built
with the necessary ground clearance, springing and cooling
to ensure perfect performance on the roughest roads and tracks
and in most tropical heat. Complete catalogue will be sent on
application to any of our authorised dealers or to the
Company’s address as below:
MANUFACTURERS:
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.
Export Dept.: 12 Princes Street, Hanover Square, London,
W. 1, England.
Cables: “SUBEAMCO,” London.
Head Office and Works: Wolverhampton, England.
AUTHORISED DEALERS:
SYDNEY:
William, Hill & Cameron, Ltd.,
91-97 Flinders Street.
PERTH:
Arthur Bales, Ltd.,
367-371 Murray Street.
VICTORIA :
The All British Motor Co. (Pty.),
104-106 Russell Street.
ADELAIDE:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Way mouth Street.
Sunbeam
Some of the finest old cut glass, prized by collectors,
was made in earlier days by Stuarts of Stourbridge,
England. Descendants of the very craftsmen who
made it are making glass as beautifully to-day. Below
is a group from a modern Georgian pattern service .
Each piece—which can be bought
separately has the name
' Stuart y etched on the glass.
m.
m
mm
m :
m
: I
t
English Hand=made Crystal
Obtainable wherever beautiful glass is sold
CIGARS
awm lk.
At all good hotels
and tobacconists __
Special Box prices on ropiest
Wholesale Distributors
CRAIG & AIT KEN
654 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY
d
later. That blasted Mt. Brewster had be-
come the black spot of my existence.
“I was in a Government department then,
and Avas transferred from Brisbane to Syd-
ney. We had taken a couple of rooms in a
big block of flats in Darlinghurst. You
know the sort of block. Two of ’em make
a respectable street look like an alley be-
tween tAvo titanic cliffs.
“Of course, she had long since declared
a truce over the Brewster affair, but at
times of stress there was a general cooling
—or, rather, warming—on the subject.
“On this particular occasion I Avas pretty
well worked up. She and I had a trifling
rumpus o\mr something, and I had Mt.
BrcAvster given to me hot and strong.
"Harassed almost to tears, I declared
that she’d not have long to wait until I
proved that there was such a thing as retalia-
tion. Why the devil did she always go into
hysterics at the sight of a spider if she was
such a super-woman?
“With that faint and charming snort that
Avas all hers, she left me and went to bed.
“Miserable as could be, I walked over to
the window and watched the creeping glow-
worms of traffic in the street below. It was
a h’g window, opening on to a narrow ledge
which ran right around the face of the
building.
“Somehow I felt that it was time to either
make amends or get even. But whatever
came or went I was incapable of going back
to that infernal ledge on Brewster and claw-
ing a pannicky way around it. Any other
place^twice as bad would do —but not that!
' With all sort of weird ideas in my noddle,
I dropped off to sleep.
“The next thing that I remember is look-
ing at what seemed to be a black screen
over which luminous bugs were crawling!
I felt very cold and lifeless, and came in
a dazed fashion to realise that I was stand-
ing bolt upright Avith my bare feet on cold
stolib. Fortunately, realisation came sloAvly.
I looked up and saw the side of the oppo-
site building, with an odd light or two burn-
ing. Somehow it reminded me of that awful
morning on Brewster. The chilly night air
ciit through my flimsy pyjamas, and the pit
of my stomach and my eardrums had an
unbalanced feeling. Then came the sicken-
ing realisation that I was standing out on
the extreme edge of the tenth window ledge
that ran around the face of the flats build-
ing! I was 120 ft. from the pavement below.
Worse than merely this, I was nearly a
hundred from my own window, through
which the curtains fluttered. Yet I was
deadly calm. With quiet precision I turned
and strode back in unhurried steps along
the tilted, thread-like stone coping. It could
not have been more than fifteen inches wide.
I am sure that, had I bent down, it would
have been the end of me.
“So I came to the open Avindow framing
Marjorie’s white, scared face.
“ ‘Oh,’ I said with magnificent dignity, ‘it’s
you!’
“ ‘Good God!’ she gasped. ‘Are you a
stark, staring lunatic V’ and collapsed on
the bed.
“Strange to say, not one spark of excite-
ment me. I doubt if my brain was
yet fully awake, though I remember what
occurred distinctly.
“ ‘Yes,’ I said. ‘Perhaps.’
“ ‘Why, I wouldn’t have done that
attached to a steel cable! Why, it —it's
different! You’ve nothing to hang on to!’
“ ‘No?’
“ ‘Then why—Rupert!’ Her Amice soft-
ened perceptibly. ‘You did it to prove’
“May the Lord have mercy on my soul,
gentlemen, but I answered ‘Yes.’ ”
Carmichael broke into one of his rare
laughs.
“Funny part of it was,’’ he said, “she
said she’d take me back to Brewster next
year and Ave’d do that bit of rock together,
and she Avould be more careful. That Avas
in 1913. In some ways I’m rather glad the
war broke out.”
The Dreamchild.
HAROLD MERCER
RECORDS THE MYSTERIOUS EXPERIENCES OF
TWO YOUNG SYDNEY DOCTORS.
THE old man is undoubtedly mad,” said
Callender; “and it is not right that
he should be allowed to go on living
by himself in such a lonely spot. As his
only relative I ought to do something; but
whatever is done must be in the greatest
confidence and with tact. He ought to be
placed where he could receive adequate atten-
tion, and the only way to manage that is
to get the certificate of two doctors who
will see the old man without arousing his
suspicions. It is a confidential examination
for which I’m prepared to pay a fee of £200,”
Looking at the sallow-faced man Oswald
Stevenson could not place him as a philan-
thropist; but to a newly-fledged doctor the
monetary consideration was certainly a keen
temptation. Hess than half an hour before
he had met Carl Farrar, and the pair had
decided on a handy hotel to celebrate the
meeting. Farrar, though senior to him at
the medical school, had been at the same
college, and they had always been chums.
It was whilst they were drinking that the
genial Summerfield, who appeared to be tied
to no work, came across the bar to introduce
two friends. One, Callender, was a shabby-
looking man who belonged apparently to the
“agent” class, and had not been too success-
ful in his vocation. But prosperity was
marked all over the other man, Johnson,
whose clothes, heavy jewellery and assertive,
confident face suggested a command of cash
used almost as a weapon.
“As a matter of fact, Callender has an
uncle he is anxious about,” said Summer-
field, “and when I mentioned that you were
a doctor he thought he would like to be
introduced.”
So now Stevenson found himself in the
lounge listening whilst Callender leaned over
the little table and explained matters, and
the other three sat near, interested but de-
tached.
Callender’s uncle, it appeared, was living
by himself in a cottage three miles off the
Blue Mountain railway line. Over forty
years ago he had married, and, being a
studious and self-centred man, had had the
house built in the wilderness, apparently to
separate him from Ijis kind. Within a year
his bride died in childbirth, the child dying
also; and since then the old man had lived
in ( the lonely house by himself.
“He was always a bit peculiar,” Callender
explained, “and he has let his melancholy
weigh upon his mind until now it is com-
pletely deranged. Naturally, I am con-
cerned about him. The obvious thing is to
get him to some place where he will have
human companions. But the matter will
have to be arranged with great delicacy.
There are only two ways in which the lunacy
people can be induced to take action. As
the old man is living quietly and inoffensively
and has plenty of money, an information
against him would not be accepted. All I
can do is to get a doctor’s certificate on
which action can be taken. You might pos-
sibly visit him and report what you find.
If I gave you a letter saying merely that
you are a friend seeking a quiet holiday,
he would receive you nicely, though he might
want to get rid of you all the time.”
When the offer of the £2OO came, Steven-
son sent to Farrar a glance that sought
advice.
“That’s a big fee,” said Farrar dubiously.
“It’s a big matter —my anxiety to get my
uncle put right,” said Callender.
“But,” persisted Farrar, “it’s a big fee,
all the same, to pay for a mere investigation.
I'ut frankly—though I don’t say it’s that—
it looks like an offer of £2OO for a certificate
to say the man is insane.”
Callender was not offended, but glanced
keenly at Farrar. “The fee is just for the
investigation,” he said, “to set my mind at
rest.”
“In that case”—Farrar broke off the sen-
tence to express the withdrawal of his objec-
tion.
“I think I’ll take up the case,” said
Stevenson. “But two doctors are wanted.
What about you, Farrar? Will you come
with me?"
"Provided I see some of the fee before I
go. It’s very well, of course, to talk of
large fees; but, after all, we’re strangers.
I can’t afford to incur expense’’—Stevenson
felt the nudge of a foot against his own—•
"without being sure."
Johnson leaned forward suddenly, a cheque-
book in his hand. “Suppose we give a cheque
for £2O now,” he said.
“Mr. Johnson is my business partner,”
explained Callender hurriedly.
“Forty pounds,” said Farrar, and it was
so arranged.
The little mountain station at which the
two friends descended next day had no con-
veyances, but a man who was driving an un-
washed delivery cart gave them information.
. “You’re not going out there?” he ques-
tioned incredulously.
“Why, what’s wrong with that?” said
Farrar.
"Oh, nothing; only no one ever does go
out. I deliver goods twice a week, and I’m
passing near his place now, so if you are
going out I'll give you a lift.”
They were glad of it, and climbed into
his cart. The driver’s assertion to them that
Hardy was “queer” was, they found, based
purely on the fact that he lived entirely by
himself, talking very little to anyone.
“But lie’s ’armless,” said the carter, “an’
a kind old bloke ’e seems, too. Here you
are.”
They had half a mile of rough track to
traverse; then over the crest of a rise round
the elbow of a hill they found themselves
looking into an oasis in the bush where stood
a small bungalow overgrown with vines and
surrounded by a garden.
“Hallo!” cried Farrar. “That chap Cal-
lender didn’t say anything about a girl living
here with the old man !”
Stevenson stared at him and then at a
little exposed space in the garden .where
an old man was xiottering amongst the
flowers.
“I see the old man; but I don’t see any
girl,” he said.
“She’s not there now,” said Farrar puzzled.
“But I saw her all right—a pretty girl too.”
They lost the view of the garden behind
a hedge of saltbush, and when they came
to the gate which made a break in it found
the old man there as if waiting, almost
defensively, to meet them.
Hardy proved a kindly man, his grey
hair crowning a serene face; and when they
handed him Callender’s letter he offered them
greetings, in spite of the reluctance in his
manner. "You have come a long way.” he
said, “for very poor entertainment, but you
are welcome. I’m afraid you will find me
a poor host, as I am absolutely alone here.”
alone?” cried Farrar quickly.
“There is nobody but myself—and my
thoughts,” returned the old man, glancing
at him keenly.
During the next two days they found that
he did indeed hug his loneliness. Giving
them a neatly though plainly furnished ropm
opening on a broad verandah, he left them
very much to themselves, meeting them rarely
except at meals. At these meals Hardy would
occasionally speak in an interested fashion
of many things, chiefly of the birds and the
flowers. The eagerness he displayed in
telling them of gullies and falls which were
worth exploring showed, they thought, desire
to get them away from the house.
When they discussed the old man Farrar
was puzzled about one thing. Stevenson
biughod at it as a delusion, but Farrar swore
that he was not mistaken about the girl he
had seen in the garden. Unobtrusively lie
explored the place, seeking where she could
be hidden, until he was assured that no
hiding-place remained. And then, on the
second night, he made a discovery.
The pair were half undressed and prepar-
ing for bed when Farrar, who had gone on
to the verandah, came back excitedly.
“Here, Stevo!” lie whispered. “Got your
boots off? Come with me—quietly.”
(Continued on next page.)


STRENGTH
c iVES OUT
You Have Neglected Your
Health Trouble Too Long
PROBABLY the majority of Men (and women, too)
who complain of constant dreadful dizziness, pains
in back, joints and muscles, irritableness, loss of vigor,
fail to realise that the seat of their trouble lies in the
kidneys. The kidneys are certainly the most vital of all
bodily organs. On them depends the purity of the blood
and consequently the strength or weakness oi lerves and
muscles. When the kidneys fail, poisons accumulate in
the blood, which cause pain in the muscles and joints.
Nerves become frayed and irritated. No wonder you are
often weak and dizzy.
What is the good of “doping” the system with so-called
“tonics” ? Why weaken the body with purging salts when
the only possible means of re-establishing health and
vigor is to restore the kidneys to healthy action?
Thousands of one-time sufferers
say this remedy is marvellous!
Do you know thousands of people have found that by
taking a short course of treatment with De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills they have enjoyed a new lease of life?
Men and women once crippled with pain, bed-ridden,
have once again enjoyed splendid vigor and vitality.
Thousands recommend this remedy, which sells by
millions of bottles the world over. Why not ask your
chemist about De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills? Ask
him his candid opinion. He will tell you all about the
splendid prescription printed on the box, and why it can,
will and must do you good.
*
1
•v^
IVf.
i
<y
Z
<7
❖ 7
1
u /
/'
/.
HERE IS TESTIMONY
TO CONVINCE YOU
There are a host of people around you,
a number in your own district, who have
proved how quickly De Witt s Kidney and
Bladder Pills have brought relief from pain
and suffering. It is for you to follow their
example. Read just this one letter of thanks
for health restored by “De Witt s.
Mr. W. H. Curtis, 31 Wright Street, Adel-
aide, writes: “About five years ago I was
laid up for sixteen weeks with neuritis and rheumatism, partial y
paralysed. I was recommended De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills, which, lam happy to say, pulled me through. I am 74
years of age and still able to hold my own with younger men.
I have enjoyed the best health ever since.
If you are troubled with
Pains in the Back
Bad Taste in the Mouth
Bad Nights
Rings or Bags under the Eyes
Depression and Tired Feeling
Loss of Vigor
Aching Limbs
Sallow Complexion
Rheumatism
Lumbago
Pains in Joints
Weak Back
Sciatica
Bladder Trouble
go to your chemist now and secure a 3/6 suppply of this invalu-
able health-bringer. There is a more economical size, 6/6, usually
sufficient for the most difficult case. This scientific preparation
will do you good from the very first dose. In 24 hours you will
see their action and realise they are acting directly at the seat
of your trouble—the kidneys. Get your supp y o
“De Witt’s” to-day, and get health as thousands ot
others have done.
De WITTS
KIDNEY
AND
BLADDER
PILLS
In the deep shade of the verandah they
stole around two sides of the house, Steven-
son following until checked by Farrar. He
heard what seemed like a whisper. It was
the rmice of the old man, only speak-
ing with a wonderful softness and tender-
ness ; and the speech was broken in the same
way as a conversation on the telephone.
“But in a few days they will be gone,
darling, and then there will be only our-
selves again !. .. . How can I tell them to go—
and be inhospitable? It is Callender’s work;
he has sent them here. They are doctors.”
A drag on Stevenson’s arm led him for-
ward, and peeping round the corner he saw
the old man seated in a canvas chair. He
was alone—talking seemingly to the air!
For a long time what he uttered were merely
endearing terms, and something about the
garden: then, as if answering a question,
he came back to matters in which the listen-
ers were involved.
“Well, I may speak to them —to-morrow,
perhaps ; but I don’t like to ask them to go.
... .No ! No ! You must not talk to them !
Besides, how can you? And if I take any
strange, sudden action, it may play into Cal-
lender’s hands still, I’ll manage it
Now, let’s talk about something else; but
first I’ll go and see if they’ve really gone to
bed.”
The listeners crept swiftly back to their
room and were in their pyjamas when Hardy
knocked at the door. He said he wished
to know if there was anything they wanted ;
and a look of relief came to his face as ne
saw them apparently prepared for bed.
“Mad !” exclaimed Stevenson when he had
gone. “There’s no doubt about his mad-
ness ! I’ve felt it ever since I came, though
I discounted it because I rather mistrusted
Callender.”
“I’ll swear I saw a girl in the garden,”
said Farrar, almost defensively.
“Well, you didn’t see any girl on the
verandah,” retorted Stevenson. “Perhaps if
he were placed under treatment”— —
“You’re thinking of the balance of that
two hundred,” said Farrar brutally. “I’m
satisfied you’ll have Buckley’s chance of get-
ting it unless you give Callender the certi-
ficate he wants. He has some scheme for
getting old Hardy’s money, and Johnson is
backing him.”
“If the old man is insane, it will be better
for himself”
“Better be hanged! He’s harmless and
happy. But I’m curious; I’m going to hang
on for a couple of days at least.”
At breakfast the next morning Hardy spoke
to them, showing a diffidence about broaching
the subject; but, when it rvas broached, speak-
ing with almost rude frankness.
“When dc you young men mean to be
leaving?” he asked. “I’ve got no reason to
be friendly with Callender. He’s a nephew
of mine, but all I’ve had to do with him is
to send him money to get him out of diffi-
culties. • He is a waster. You didn’t know
that, so I couldn’t turn you away when you
came in good faith ; but I like my solitude.”
“We’re awfully sorry to trespass upon
your hospitality, Mr. Hardy,” said Farrar
easily. “We were thinking of leaving to-
morrow evening; but as seemingly we are
encroaching”
Hardy was immediately profuse in apolo-
gies, and they stayed.
That afternoon, at the suggestion of
Farrar, they turned back abruptly to the
house after starting on a supposed expedi-
tion to explore a new gully.
Stevenson noticed nothing as they entered
the place; but as they made their way to
the bungalow sitting-room Farrar became
agitated.
“The old man was in the garden when
we approached,” he whispered, “and dashing
into the house locked the door of his room.
He saw us as we came up the path. His
face undoubtedly looked mad.”
Stevenson stared at him but said nothing;
a deathly silence seemed to rest upon the
place.
“Dr. Farrar and Dr. Stevenson! Why
icon’t you go and leave father and mo alone?"
The voice, clear amd sweet, startled them
—startled them even more than the sudden
appearance of the speaker, a beautiful and
fresh-looking girl of probably seventeen. They
had not seen her approach, and did not know
the way of her coming.
“Miss Hardy!” cried Stevenson. “We’re
awfully pleased to meet you. Farrar swore
he saw you the first day we arrived, but
you’ve evidently been away.”
“I live here —with my father,” said the
girl, “and we like to be alone. We have
been together ever since my mother died.
We want to be left alone. Mr. Callender
sent you here to do us harm.”
“Miss Hardy” began Farrar.
“He wanted to take my father away from
here and get his money. You won’t help in
such a plot—oh, please, say you won’t help!
If my father goes away it means my death.”
“We have no intention of harming your
father,” said Stevenson. “But surely if a
little treatment—and mixing with other
people”——
“I can only live as long as my father is
with me, and here,” cried the girl, and there
was a piteous appeal in her pleading. “If
you were likely to lose your life through
an act other people might think was nothing,
wouldn’t you cry against the cruelty of itV
It will be cruel if you take my father away
—cruel to me. I want to live! If you do
not think of my father, who has tried to be
kind to you, perhaps you will think of me !”
“Stevenson,” said Farrar, turning to him,
“we’ll get back to Sydney straight away, and
our report will be that Mr. Hardy is all
right.”
And then both men found themselves star-
ing with amazed eyes and jumping hearts
at the vacancy where they had just seen a
bright and alive girl.
“Good God !” exclaimed Stevenson. “Have
we gone mad ourselves? Am I dreaming, or
did you see and hear that girl too?”
“I saw her,” said Farrar. Ilis face was
white, and he and Stevenson stared incredu-
lously at one another before Farrar spoke
again:
“God knows how to explain it; but, as
near as I can get to it, it is a mesmeric
delusion imposed upon us by the old man,
who has imposed it upon himself through
years of nursing the thought. It’s forty
years since his wife died, and the child with
iier; but his delusion makes the lonely man’s
daughter stay at the age when she : s most
desirable. God knows how real it is to him,
and I for one am not going to disturb it.”
“Nor I,” said Stevenson heartily. “Nor
I.”
Rhyme of the Mary Jane.
Built on Brisbane Water nigh ninety years
ago,
And not a lofty clipper, as early records
show,
Nor yet of lordly tonnage, but solid, stout
and plain,
A bark of budding commerce, the schooner
Mary Jane.
In young colonial story her humble part
was played
In ways of use and profit, a fetch-and carry
maid
Who rendered honest service, with % either
pride nor boast,
Ere steam had loudly entered the harbors
of our coast.
When Stamford Raffles, nor’-ward, was
founding Singapore,
And Rajah Brooke was facing a lawless
Dyak shore,
She bore Shoalhaven cedar in scented logs
to town,
And brought the pit-saw’s product from Port
Macquarie down.
To Sydney Cove she carried the toll of fields
and woods,
And freighted back, full-laden, the settlers’
welcome goods—
Their ’bacca, boots and sugar, their rum and
flour and tea,
Black powder, lead for bullets —the needs of
bond and free.
She knew bewhiskered skippers, fierce mates
and oft a crew
Who drank with doubtful ladies or battled
in the ’Loo
With scornful, deep-sea strangers whose
ships at anchor lay
Abreast Macquarie’s barracks or off Black-
wattle Bay.
Betimes she tacked up harbor beside a
frigate tall,
And dipped a tattered ensign and heard a
bo’s’n call
The handy men of England to reef the snowy
sails
That bore a gilded Consul to govern New
South Wales.
Betimes she rounded Pinchgut and swung
a ready boom,
Or, with the wheel hard over, gave courtesy
and room
To some incoming liner, whose sea-worn
migrants pale,
Impatient, walked the broad decks or
crowded to the rail
To scan the country’s prospect; all keen once
more to stand,
Their six months’ voyage ended, on firm if
alien land —
Stout sons of future freemen, strong mothers
of a line
That bore a young land’s burdens and made
it yours and mine.
Then redcoats through the timber in dusty
columns strode,
With drummers and with lifers down Parra-
matta-road,
And hairy teamsters tarried beside the Dog
and Duck
To wet their thirsty gullets and wish each
other luck.
In cosy, sanded parlors of jovial haunts
ashore
Our coasters gleaned such stories as current
gossip bore —
How Mitchell’s men had triumphed; how
Leichhardt came not back—
Of lesser lights of glory whose lawless deeds,
alack!
Made landward travel fearsome. Whereat
they blessed their stars
That theirs were but the dangers of winds
or changing bars,
That they, unlike these landsmen, need fear
no waiting ills
Like hostile spears of natives or ’rangers
on the hills.
Anon when heading southward for logs to
Wollongong,
Their sails were gladly hoisted with salt,
relieving song;
Swinging next slowly nor’ward to load a
freight of grain,
They petted and they praised her, their faith-
ful Mary Jane.
When Franklin and his lady dwelled yet in
Hobart Town,
She carried scented pinewood and maize
and apples down;
Aye, storms in plenty weathered and modest
profits won
Of many homely cargoes And now, her
labor done,
She rests by Bermagui. Albeit “all hands
saved,”
One night the south wind caught her, and
on a leeshor.e graved
Our seawise, sturdy schooner, the fetch-and-
carry maid,
A lass of worth and virtue, a pioneer of
Trade.
She filled her homely mission, colonial-
buildod, and
Her hardwood ribs are broken and buried
in the sand;
Nor will her bearded lovers e’er hoist a
sail again, .
Who knew and fondly toasted their faithrui
Mary Jane.
N.S.AV.
E. J. BRADY.


-
3
m
WM
Ml
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agenl«—liULMJSs at Brisbane.
N.Z. Office —1(3-107 I'entherston Street, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Victorian Office—'‘Chancery House/' 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., T,TI>., Adelaide, S.A.
&/>e
“BRISBANE COURIER”
IS THE GREATEST ADVERTISING
MEDIUM IN QUEENSLAND
Advertising figures have proved over years that both Local and
National advertisers regard the “Courier” as the greatest daily
newspaper published in Queensland.
For the month of August the “Courier” carried almost 1000 cols,
of advertising, or approximately 24,000 inches of advertising more
than its contemporary.
THE “BRISBANE COURIER” IS
FIRST IN CIRCULATION, COVERAGE, ADVERTISING
AND INFLUENCE.
Published by the Brisbane Newspaper Co., Queen Street, Brisbane.
Rep.: Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 85007.
“THE AGE”
Established 185Jf.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
No advertising campaign can be success-
ful if the quality of the product adver-
tised does not contain full value for
the price asked.
I' your products can meet these require-
ments, “The Age” will prove a valuable
medium for creating goodwill, and
will considerably lessen the time in
moving them from storage to consumer'.
Merchants and Manufacturers of quality
products in ever increasing numbers
are realising the truth of the slogan
“It Pays to Advertise,” and are direct-
ing their efforts in marketing through
the columns of “The Age” as a neces-
sary medium for business promotion in
Victoria.
Audited Net Daily Circulation
123,533.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office;: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
Clw Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price ljd.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
the mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
carries regularly a far greater total
volume of advertising than any other
newspaper published in Tasmania.
F is thus, judged by the use, made of
its columns, the most popular
as well as the most powerful of the
newspapers of Tasmania.
pROFIT by the experience of the
leading national advertisers, and
place “The . Mercury” first when
advertising is under consideration.
Average Net Circulation, 20,967.
IT is, undoubtedly, Tasmania’s ablest
and best conducted newspaper.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
F. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House
30 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square ’
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
LJL
#
A
s
f*.
%
A WOMAN'S sensibilities
are finer, her enthusiasms
deeper than man’s. She
overworks, overplays, “ lives
on her nerves ” and is nearly
always constipated and suffers.
Women need Beecham’s Pills.
They bring colour to the
cheeks, sparkle to the eyes,
and quiet to the nerves by
stimulating healthy digestion
and regular complete elim-
ination.
Beecham’s Pills enable
woman to be at her best.
p
64 PAGES OF
BRIGHT AND
INTERESTING
READING j
SALES EXCEED
160,000
COPIES
EVERY WEEK
Ask
Your
Newsagent
to
Deliver
Your
Copy.
AUSTRALIAN:
d
PATTERN OF
PRINTED SILK SUIT
IN THIS WEEK'S ISSUE
d
ď
.iftV ,o 9 v
.-•**
‘ ~** .•* »e^ ft W
.•**
*•


đ
d
4
wheel internal-
expanding hy-
draulic brakes
5
:50 (five:fifty]
oversize
balloon tvres
6
cylinder high-
compression
engine
7
bearing, 52 -lb.
highly balanced
crankshaft
8
inch deep
chassis frame
in the NEW
DODGE BROTHERS SIX
CHRYSLER MOTORS PRODUCT
The new Dodge Brothers
Six is an extraordinary
motor-car because it
embodies so many features
that are extraordinary for
a car of anything like its
price.
The Dodge Brothers
hydraulic 4-wheel inter-
nal - expanding brakes, the
over-size 5:50 tyres, the
52-pound 7-bearing
dynamically and statically
balanced crankshaft, the
extra-deep 8-inch frame
are conspicuous among the
things that cannot be
matched by any other
cars neighboring on the
new Dodge Brothers Six
price.
Come into our salesroom
and see the new Dodge
Brothers Six; try it on the
road. If you inspect and
drive one of these remark-
able cars, we have all the
confidence in the world
that you will never be
content until you own one.
1 i •S 3
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales Harden & Johnston, Ltd., Sydney
Victoria . . Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Vic.) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane
South Australia . . Waymouth Motor Company, Ltd., Adelaide
Western Australia . . Winterbottom Motor Company, Ltd., Perth
Tasmania Co-operative Motors, Ltd., Hobart
