

m -Vm m
'm
K'<A.
**Lm
~*k
■>w
>.
fTJi.
W
&
■1
’•» ..^EZ^fe&4
-
m\.:
+.* ■»
l-'ULVUP
W QPtt
C B',i
It!
■VJonnnie Wat®
i Red Lab
m
jKgj*
s
0
if'l
<0>
V
I
p
V
r
-r . v .w- .f*?
•a«
K£H5
NNIE WALKER
A KNOT
RE
IN D YOU
FORGET
Not that you’ll necessarily need
your memory jogged in a matter
of such grave importance. But
you can’t be too careful in a
crowded life. So while you think
of it — make that knot .
One glance at it, later on, will
remind you of the whisky you
have to take home. Which
whisky to take is not a knotty
problem — there’s only one
answer: "Johnnie Walker.”
Lift the tag —remove the capsule —
and a tw SI of the finger and thumb
rwill give access to the spirit which has
made and kept more friends than any
other whisky in the world.
■'
Born 1810 -
Still goin^
WHISKY
TOHN WALKER SC SONS LTD., SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, LONDON
and KILMARNOCK
The Bulletin
/Lc/iat &vlcIA 'O'fchfty — Gsmjdlsdt , o<y<HAjL'
Vol. 50.—N0. 2575.
Wednesday, June 19, 1929.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, ff.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


'"THE 1929 LIBRARY CATALOGUE is
1 now ready, and will be forwarded post
free, with full terms and particulars, on
application to
D Y\f OCR’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Life as we live it is life as we must,
Life as we live it oft ends in disgust;
Varying seasons their maladies bring,
Coughs in the Winter and colds in the Spring.
Life as we live it is pleasant enough,
If we take, smiling, the smooth with the rough,
And for our bronchial afflictions assure
By taking Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—Anvr.
tryryrty
i I
AustraUanHxams.
Accountancy Exams.
Architectural Courses
Advertisement Writing
Agricultural Courses
Bookkeeping
Bankers’ Institute
Builders’ Courses
Commercial Art
Chemistry
Draftsmanship
Engineering
General Education
Government Exams.
Hand Writing
L Literary Courses
guages
Motor Engineering
Professional Exams.
Secretaries’ Exams.
Shorthand, Typing
Salesmanship
Show Card Writing
Shire Clerks’ Exams,
Stammerers
Surveying
Teachers’ Exams.
Touch Type Writing
University Exams.
Verse Writing
Window Dressing
V^reles^jngineering
Ehcircle Course Favored and Mail This
k Advt.tosTDTT's,H}3 RUSSELL ST.,fiELB.^
J_YSAGHT
o
3
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
:
v*>
PERCY MARKS,
JEWELLER AND LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emeralds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
‘SWAM’
FOWHTP6NS
Self-filling- type from 17/6.
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
“THE AGE”
Established 185 J/.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
Competition in business is too keen and the
struggle too tense to SPECULATE in news-
paper space.
The actual results from advertising depend
upon the media used, and no amount of ha: e
and thought and study is too great to expend
on this subject.
If you want to reach the Victorian public,
follow the lead of men who have tried and
KNOW. Appeal to them through “THE AGE,”
which others have found to be productive. Get
the benefit of 70 years’ specialised effort in
supplying tlie needs of 123,038 daily sub-
scribers who demand an accurate and complete
news service of the world’s happenings.
“THE AGE”
circulation is in reality a body of
readers which, has been organised
into a body of Purchasers.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home ancl Social Life.
In Picture anfcl Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
FOR
ARCHITECTS,"ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
fciH
1
BRtTtSH
Perfection
RUSK ROBBER
ALL AUSTRALIANS, visiting London
*"*■ should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6dl weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing miail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander R pading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where thcfy can see the home
papers, meet their friend; i, use the telephone
and obtain information* without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the A nistralian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 Geo rge Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, M< ilbourne.
HUDSONS Eumenthol Jujubes
CAUTION.—The large sale of Eumenthol
Jujubes has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name of
menthol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure to get
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes. You may
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they are “just as good” as Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujubes. This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no reputation of
their own, and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6; or forward 1/6
in stamps to the Manufacturers, Hudson’s
Bumenthoi Chemical Co., Ltd., Sydney.
For Coughs, Colds and Sore Throats.
tu
9
63
A. The Larynx of
Organ of Voice.
3. The Trachea ef
Windpipe.
c. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected lung.
®. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
The Red Page
R. D. FitzGerald
Judged by his published work, R. D.
Fitz Gerald is not one of Australia’s most
prolific writers. Only two small collections
of his verse have been printed—“ The
Greater Apollo,” privately distributed
among some of his friends in 1927. in
memory of his mother, and now To Meet
the Sun, a larger, though not a large, collec-
tion, published by Angus and Robertson.
Some of this verse has appeared fugitively
in The Bulletin, Triad (the late), Vision
(the late), Spinner (the late—what a com-
mentary on literary endeavor in Australia
all this is!) and in Hermes. I have it on
good authority, however, that Mr. Fitz-
Gerald is something of a top-drawer poet
(would to Heaven Australia had a few more
of the kind!); that he writes to express the
insistent, and not to earn the necessary, nor
yet because he is known as a poet and
must “do” some little thing every week to
live up to his repute.
There seems to be evidence in the
verse itself that expression does" not yet
come easy to him. There is, if it may be put
in ibis way, an unsplit-ihfinitiveness about it
in places. “I greatly regret,” he writes, “I
greatly wish,” “I truly meant”: it seems
just a little labored. One would like him to
let himself go; to be less cold; to indeed
“meet the sun.” This ideal of meeting the
sun floods the mind, but is, as yet, not so
full in the heart. There is not much of the
open doers, of road-wanderings, of camping
out under the stars in this poetry. On the
face of it that is strange, too, because R. D.
Fitz Gerald lives that sort of a life to some
extent; he is a surveyor, tall, young.-and he
is brown with the outdoors. But his'verse,
like all verse that is also poetry, is con-
templative, and the years will bring him
attainment of his ideal. He is so true a
poet that I have no doubt what so fills his
mind will get to his heart in due time; then
he may write less thoughtfully, but perhaps
more freely and beautifully.
No other young Australian poet that I
know of has anything like his intensity of
thought. It is so intense that often it
alone gives that impress of labor to the
line:—
Philanion who danced before the King—
(Heart, have you then forgotten those broad days,
The breathing Present and the present Earth,
That once again you must go wandering
Among old ages with a gift of praise
To lay before her- feet of little worth?)
Of all past beauty of remembered Spring
She is the most lost, the most utterly gone:
The little dust that was Philanion
Out, out of mind an hour after her fa 11....
There is melody in that, as there is in all
his work; but it is deep-throated melody,
and, often, it is single melody ; there is an
absence of counterpoint in the composition.
What beauty of lyric verse may be added
to Australian, literature if he ever does
content himself a little more with trifles
is surely hinted in this night glimpse,
probably of a Sydney Harbor bay (it. is
called “Jewelry”) :
There is no moon this night to guide
With high-held lamp my lady’s way
Across the polished, fioor-like tide
Between the squat hills of the bay.
And those far stars are all too dim
To flush her canvas or reveal
How she slides omvard, steady and trim,
With hardly a breath to drive the keel.
(Not thus by day I’ve seen her go,
But royally and before all eyes,
With gulls for bodyguard, a show
Of white wings splashed upon the skies.)
Though stealthily she walks the dark,
And unattended, oven now
Queen-like she wears her gems: I mark
The torn wash flaring at the bow.
He is not a poet of lines; his power —it
is power more than anything else —is in
the completed expression; but that last
line, that “torn wash flaring at the bow”
is typical of the occasional gem that does
detach itself and insist upon being worn.
A little more of that light touch is wanted
to balance such lines as these:—
Very tired and not a little overwrought,
I could forget to-night all I have ever said
Of how her spells have bound my erstwhile vagrant
thought
And hold my thought and me in this blind path
to tread ;..,.
Or
And so might find a remedy in the white arms of a
lass
For this her vaporous presence which has plagued
me overmuch.
It would be merely a waste of time to
quote from “Tradition” and “The Greater
Apollo,” two long and noble poems, for
their worth is in their complete selves;
but two more of the briefer pieces should
be proof enough that Mr. Fitz Gerald sings
somewhat outside the accustomed circle of
conventional muse-baiters:—
WHEN THEIR DUMB WINGS.
When their dumb wings assault the night
With strokes as soft as a caress
Dark-haunting birds in secret flight
Have not so much of gentleness
As have the movements that are made
By those incomparable hands
W ith the brown fingers, smooth as jade,
Wherethrough my life-thoughts slip like sands.
Remembering how claws and beak
Ravage the tenderest night-borne things,
How there’s no mercy for the weak
In downy silence, quiet wings,
Sorely 1 dread that those hands dart,
Cruel as hunters', toward my dream;
1 fear her fingers at mv heart
Lest they be harder than they seem.
WE SHALL COME BACK.
Me shall come back to peace at eve
M lien day upon the troubled mind can leave
No glitter of the present; and all past
Falls into nothingness and fades at last;
\\ hen future days mean not so much to us
As promise of moonlight, faintly luminous,
New stealing to the sky behind those dim,
Intricate trees, black leaved and black of limb,
The border of the universe, the wall
Traceried, stark and tall,
Enclosing us within a little found
Of magic silent ground.
A reading of the book should prove a
lot more than that—that Mr. Fitz Gerald
is a true poet, a writer of power and beauty.
CECIL MANN.
Modern Maoriland Writers
Giving an outsider’s impression of Maori- i
land writers, Vance Palmer reaches some j
devastating conclusions in a recent lied
Page. But lie is no nearer to this country’s
contemporary verso than Dora Wilcox and
Jessie Maekay; and lie cannot name one
Maori land man other than Hector Hoi it ho •
and Alan Mulgau.
I have just completed an anthology of
modern Maoriland verse for which I I
examined the work of more than 100 j
poets, and in which there arc at least ;
eight who outshine both Jessie Mae-
kay and Dora Wilcox—Eileen Duggan,
Alison Grant, Una Currie, A. R. D. Fair-
burn, Robin Hyde, Isabel Veitch, Helena
Henderson and John Beaglehole. I wonder
how many of these Mr. Palmer could dis-
cuss.
Mr. Palmer’s indictment of the non-
appearance of men writers is another idea
bred of ignorance. In Maoriland to-day
there are more and better young writers
than there has ever been at any period of
her history. Here are a few: Ivan Suther-
land, psychologist of distinction, who is at
work on something in ethnology that will
be literature as well as learning; Harold
Miller, graduate of Oxford and historian,
whose work in survey of Maoriland past
and present is far more distinguished than
the more advertised work of Harrop and
Marais; John Beaglehole, who has just com-
pleted his doctorate in London, whose
“Captain Hobson and the New Zealand
Company” appeared in America last year,
who is now writing a book on Pacific rela-
tions for a London publisher, and who is
our most distinguished poet, most dis-
tinguished because most, mature. Some of
his work appeared in Tub Bulletin years
ago. Also there are J. H. E. Schroder,
writer of porcelain prose, an essayist and
a good one; A. R. D. Fairburn, sentimental
perhaps, but melodious and a fine crafts-
man; P. W. Robertson, whose book, “A
Soul’s Progress,” is the most civilised thing
to appear in print from the pen of any
Maorilander; Lester Webb, R. F. Fortune,
J. B. Donald, Charles S. Perry and a host
of lesser lights" from O. N. Gillespie to
“Riverina,” from H. C. D. Somerset to
C. R. Allen.
The only thing that the Maorilander is
not doing is advertising himself. His work
is there to be discovered, but the Maori-
lander of the best type has other things to
do than to trouble about what Mi’. Palmer
grandiloquently terms “putting Maoriland
on the map.”
QUENTIN POPE.
The O’Neill Fad
What mainly surprised me in Alan D.
Mickle’s article (R.P. 22/5/129) was that
he wrote so solemnly of Eugene O’Neill,
apparently taking it for granted that every-
body who is not a member of some Purity
League must think likewise. Well, I for
one do not, and my reason is simply that
he is not what Mr. Mickle and others claim
hitn to be. O’Neill is the greatest literary
charlatan ever hoisted on the public, and
the really tragic part is that he is such a
sincere charlatan. He has duped himself
even more than he has his most fervent
admirer. I think O’Neill’s present vogue is
to be laid to the charge of Jean Nathan,
who has a habit of praising Americans, par-
ticularly Americans who are attacked by
their own country. He has so ballyhooed
O’Neill (to use one of his national expres-
sions) that many have added their voices
to the din by way of proving that they are
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—Our Assurance
and Your Guarantee.
Anthony Horderns'
are Sole Agents in N.S.W. for all these
Why not make use
of our “Famous Low
Prices” ? Everything
for agricultural work
can be obtained at
Anthony Horderns’.
Below we quote
some special values
of the moment.
Famous
Agricultural
Necessities
DEPARTMENT FOURTH FLOOR.
Catalogue with jull details will be
sent, Post Free, by request.
OUR “D.P.S.”
(Deposit-Purchase System)
Where it is inconvenient
to pay immediately for
the goods, you can
secure them by leaving
a deposit and complet-
ing the payment as and
when you wish. When
the payments are com-
plete the goods are
yours. No interest is
charged.
John Deere Ploughs
t 5 ; o
o
on,
OVd
VRAZUSt
XT552. —John Deere’s Hillside Ploughs. Combine strength and light-
ness in an unusual degree, and do equally good work on level ground
Complete with wheel and steel handles
£5
f5 / io / o
V,
The
USE
GY#
XT556. —The John Deere Vineyard Plough is a medium size, one-
horsepower plough, with steel beam. Handles are adjustable. Standard
gives good clearance in trash. Will plough furrow 3 to 5 inches deep,
and 8 to 1 1 inches wide. Weight, 971 b. £5/10/-
ro
/
/
15
0
rum.
XTs2o.—John Deere’s Red Jacket Ploughs.
Cut 9in. lOin. 12in.
Weight 891 b. 941 b. 1081 b.
Price £6/15/- £8 £9/5/6
Single Standard Land Wheels, 12/6 extra. Knife Coulter, 10/6. Disc
Coulter, 3fo/-. All Steel Construction.
Ransome’s Ploughs
YTs+\
life
The “Victory" Plough has been specially designed to meet the require-
ments of farmers needing a simple, light plough, taking only a minimum
draught, and to give the maximum of strength from a minimum of
weight. Weight, 1041 b.
METAL
(B)CHILLED WEARING
SURFACE. EXTREMELY HARP,
at • *
v
Ransome’s Patent
Self-Sharpening
“Chilled” Ploughshares
Plough Brand No. 21 2/- each
Plough Brand No. 87 2/- each.
Y.O.H. 2 . . 2/- each. R.N.F. 2 . . 2/-
Y.O.H. 3 . . 2/- each. R.N.F. 4 . . 2/-
Y.O.H. 4 . . 2/- each. R.N.F. 7 . . 2/-
Y.O.H. 5 .. 2/- each. R.N.F. 41 .. 2/-
8.F.1. 2 .. 1/6 each. R.H.A. 2 .. 1/6
8.F.1 3
8.F.1 4
8.F.1. 5
2/-
2/-
21-
R.H.A.
R.H.A.
2/-
2/-
For Dozen Lots. Prices on Application.
“Wiard” Ploughs
Contractors’ Plough, with forged crucible steel points. Weight, 2001 b.
With charcoal iron beam. No. 65 *io/in/
With crucible steel beam. No. 65 . ' 'or/
Skids supplied with ploughs. Extra shares, each -s®/'
Anthony Horderns'
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O.


X
r*.
i
l
THE WOR LB HAS A NEW AND FINER 4
rv, Mill I R HH a ' "aw i 111 I I
£
MOTOR CAR
Twin Ignition
and
“400” Luxury
THE NEW
NASH
400
THE new Nash ( represents a tri-
umph of engineering genius and luxury
of appointment hitherto associated with
motor cars far beyond its highly popular
price range.
Features exclusive to Nash unite to endow
the “400” with more than ordinary ability
to perform; while its beauty of outline, fine
craftsmanship and rich appointments endear
it to those who admire fine things.
What other car at its price embodies such
unusual advantages as Twin Ignition, Cen-
tralized Chassis Lubrication, Hydraulic
Shock Absorbers and other costly car
equipment?
TOURERS.
Standard Six from . . . . . . £375
Special Six from £4BO
Advanced Six from. . .. . . £63o*
SEDANS.
£4so* (2 door) £47o* (4 door)
£565* (2 door) £sBo* (4 door)
£62o* (2 door) £635* (4 door)
Body.
(16-9763)
Distributors for New South Wales:
WILLSFORD, LTD.,
132-134 Phillip Street,
SYDNEY.
’Phones: 8W2291 (5 lines).
Distributors for Victoria and Tasmania:
RICKARDS BROS. PTY., LTD.*
567*573 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE, Cl.
’Phone: F 3114.
Distributors for Queensland and Northern Rivers
PEELS, LTD.,
407-431 Stanley Street,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
’Phone: J 1561.
Distributors for South Australia and Broken Hill:
AUTOCARS, LTD.,
58-72 Flinders Street,
ADELAIDE.
'Phone: Central 5500.
Distributors jor West Australia:
ERIC MADDREN MOTORS, LTD.,
996 Hay Street,
PERTH.
’Phones: 85610, 87634.
TASMANIAN DEALERS:
THE SERVICE CO. OF TASMANIA, 56 Paterson Street, Launceston.
E. MEERMANN, 135 Bathurst Street, Hobart.
BENNETT & GILBERT, Best Street, Devonport.


Metropolitan Water, Sewerage and
Drainage Board, Sydney
LOAN £1,500,000 1944
issue Price £99 10s. per £lOO
Guaranteed by the Government of New South Wales
Under existing legislation, the Loan is a Trustee Invest*
ment in New South Wales, Queensland and Tasmania.
The Comnionwcaltb Banß of Australia is Authorised to issue the
above-mentioned Loan.
Applications will be received at the offices of the Commonwealth
Bank of Australia, in Canberra, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane,
Perth and Hobart up to three o’clock p.m. on sth July, 1929, but the
Board reserves the right to close the loan without notice at any prior
date.
Payment may be made in one amount or by instalments.
Application money and all instalments will be received and interest
paid and principal repaid free of exchange at the offices of the Com-
monwealth Bank of Australia, in Canberra, Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth and Hobart.
Applications will be made for the listing of the Loan on the Stock
Exchanges of Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth and Hobart.
Stock or Debentures will be issued at option of the applicant.
During the currency of the Loan, stock may be converted into deben-
tures and debentures into stock.
Commission at the rate of 10/-% will be paid on all allotments
made in respect of applications lodged by, and bearing the stamp of,
members of recognised Stock Exchanges of Australia.
The whole of the Loan has been underwritten by the Common-
wealth Bank of Australia.
Other conditions of the Loan and details of the Board’s functions
and activities are given in the prospectus. Copies of the prospectus
and application forms may be obtained from any office of the Common-
wealth Bank of Australia or from any member of any Stock Exchange
through whom applications may be lodged.
Official Brokers: J. B. Were & Son, 349 Collins Street, Melbourne.
intellectuals —emancipated souls who do
not shudder at a lurid adjective in mixed
company.
Let us stop our ears for a moment against
this ballyhooing and listen to O’Neill with-
out bias. We hear only one who thinks
he can solve world problems by bringing
a harlot on to the stage with a green face,
or by making a woman murder her husband
and child and seduce her stepson (a silly
subject done far more cleverly by John
Knittel in his novel. “Into the Abyss”). This
kind of drama is labelled Strong, which is
a euphuism for Dirt or Sentimental Bru-
tality. And for all his swagger of modern
sophistication, O’Neill is a maudlin senti-
mentalist. “Anna Christie” reads (I have
not seen it acted) like a Mrs. Henry Wood
up-to-date, with her heroine a trifle cruder
and her menfolk using violent language.
But for pure balderdash has anything ever
equalled O’Neill’s “Welded”? Whenever
I recall the scene with the dramatist talking
like a modern Pistol to the preposterously
blase street lady I simply shriek with
laughter. I find it hard to believe that
O’Neill was not trying to parody himself.
Mr. Mickle makes one extraordinary
statement: “A man like O’Neill gives what
Shakspeare and Ibsen gave, what is sur-
mised, imagined and unproven.” Unless
Mr. Mickle refers to various soliloquies I
cannot see the point of this remark, as all
Shakspeare’s. great plays are built on the
most essential and proved fact of all
—psychological truth. In many ways
( e.g Ophelia’s mad songs and Hamlet’s
Oedipus Complex) Shakspeare even pre-
ceded Freud in revealing deep truths of
the mind. Ibsen, of course, would scream
at the mere suggestion of writing about
unproven things, although he did so, as in
the heredity nonsense of “Ghosts.”
Mr. Mickle concludes his article by saying
that when O’Neill produces two new plays
in London the critics will not yawn. Neither
they should. Laughter is what will most
likely be called for, although I confess
that “Marco Millions” did not make me
laugh. It annoyed me deeply, because it is
a deliberate attempt to degrade one of the
most courageous men in history. To Marco
Polo, trade was only incidental to adven-
ture in his journey to Kubla Khan. He
was primarily an adventurer; commerce
was his excuse for risking his neck, just as
modern explorers excuse their dare-devil
antics around the Poles by gabbling about
science. To make Marco Polo talk like
Babbitt is almost as insane as to write
a play making Shakspeare talk like O’Neill.
PHILIP LINDSAY.
Australia’s Thirty Years' War
Australasian Preferential Tariffs and
Imperial Freetrade deals in an interesting
fashion with an old chapter of Colonial
history, but as the chapter practically closed
some quarter-century before the establish-
ment of the Commonwealth, and the whole
book shut with a bang on the first day
of Federation, it may attract less attention
than it deserves. The author, Cephas Daniel
Allin, who died in 1927. was Professor of
Political Science at the University of Min-
nesota (U.S. A.), and the work is published
at Minneapolis, which is a long way for
Australians and Maorilanders to go for in-
formation about their own countries.
During the earlier part of the twilight
period between gubernatorial autocracy and
Parliamentary government, the seven
colonies of Australasia drifted along com-
mercially much as they pleased, making
friendly or hostile tariff arrangements with
each other every now and then. But Britain
took to Freetrade like a seventh-century
Arab taking to Mohammedanism, or a dog
taking to hydrophobia. Leading public
dervishes resolved that, as the Cold Country
had found the only true faith, nothing but
cussedness could prevent the colonies find-
ing it also. They explained that the Old
Man in London had always retained the
sole power to make customs and excise laws
for every part of the empire, that Free-
trade within the empire was the correct
caper, and much more to the same effect.
The argument drifted along for 30 years.
Julius Vogel, of Maoriland, took a conspicu-
ous part, not that he wanted to join an
Australasian Commonwealth or Zoilverein,
but he desired that his colony should have
the right to negotiate trade arrangements
with other colonies and with foreign nations.
This last proposition, which was rather
grotesque in that day of small things, roused
British statesmen to active huffiness as
savoring of treason. But it was pointed out
to them that Canada had the power of
tariff-making which was denied to Austral-
asia, and even made its own treaties with
the United States. The position was that
when Britain, with its new Freetrade eye
in frenzy rolling, made Canada’s market
open to the U.S. without any reciprocity,
Canada had to demand the right either to
protect itself or to secede and join the
U.S. and get protection and reciprocity that
way. It was another disagreeable knock to
the British professed doctrines of tariff
equality that J. Bull had signed a treaty,
drawn up by Cobden, admitting the wines
of France at a lower duty than those of
South Africa. The colonies naturally asked
why they shouldn’t be allowed to make
discriminating treaties if the Mother
Country reserved the right to discriminate
against them.
The Australasian colonies having gained,
or assumed, the right to make their own
tariffs against one another, what they
demanded was really the further right of
making concessions one to another where
it was profitable to do so. The idea of
Federation, with a common tariff against
the outside world, inter-State Freetrade
and the right to negotiate special reciprocity
arrangements with other members of the
Empire, was still in the distance, but the
foundations were being laid.
Most of the big political men of the day
took part in the agitation, and were
strenuously backed by friendly Governors
whose power for usefulness was greater than
it is now. They got little credit for their
work, it being mostly assumed that what
they did really happened in the natural
order of things, or was created in Genesis.
A few wild Little Englanders in London pro-
posed throwing all the Empire save the
United Kingdom overboard for the sake of
Freetrade, but no one listened intently.
In 1873 a bill granting the simple demands
of the colonies was introduced into the
British House of Commons, and so great
was the indifference or ignorance of the
political rank and file that it went through
all its stages without remark. The House
of Lords took a warm and friendly interest,
those peers who had served as colonial
Governors being especially favorable. Earl
Grey, the last ditcher of the old brigade,
declared that when the inestimable and
immortal blessing of Freetrade came to
England “it was not even imagined that
the Imperial Parliament and Government
were to forego their old authority of set-
tling what was to be the commercial policy
of the whole Empire.” He added bitterly
that colonial statesmen struck him as an
unlettered mob, possessed by a blastiferous
ignorance of the principles of political
economy (or words to that effect), and
quite untaught in the tomes of Adam
Smith and Ricardo.
That, was the last shot of the Thirty
Years’ War.
J.E.
A Satchel of Books
Enter Sir John, by Clemenee Dane and
Helen Simpson (Hodder and Stoughton;
Dymocks), is a thriller with a difference.
The customary murder is provided, and so is
the hot pursuit on which detective-story
‘fans” insist; this last rather unconvincingly
dragged in. But, above all, this is a novel
of shrewd characterisation and humor. Sir
John Saumarez, the fashionable West End
actor, who unmasks the murderer by apply-
ing Hamlet’s methods to him, is a lovable
human being. There are many passages com-
pact of observation and smiling feminine
malice, and they raise the book right out of
the ruck of its class. Helen Simpson, who
has been writing in London for some years,
hailed from Sydney.
The Buck in the Snow, by Edna St. Vin-
cent Millay (Harpers; Roycroft, Sydney).
Striking her lyre again after five years’
silence, Miss Millay gives melodious proof
that she still stands among America’s lead-
ing verse-makers. She is no slave to hack-
neyed metrical forms, filling them out meti-
culously with her poetic thought—her poetry
flows from her, making its own form. Even
when she pours it into such an unbendable
vessel as the sonnet-form the melody refuses
to be bound; it will be free always. “Wine
from These Grapes” fairly illustrates the
general beauty and freedom:—
Wine from these grapes X shall be treading surely
Morning and noon and night until I die.
Stained with these grapes I shall lie down and die.
If you would speak with me on any matter,
At any time, come where these grapes are grown;
And you will find me treading them to must.
Lean then above me sagely, lest I spatter
Drops of the wine I tread from grapes and dust.
Stained with these grapes I shall lie down to die.
Three women come to wash me clean
Shall not erase this stain.
Nor leave me lying purely,
Awaiting the black lover.
Death, fumbling to uncover
My body in his bed,
Shall know
There has been one
Before him.
The History and Adventures of a Queens-
land Pioneer, by Edgar Foreman, J.P.
(Exchange Printing Co., Brisbane). A
naive story of a mau who typifies thousands
that have had some hand in the making of
Australia. He arrived with his family in
Queensland in the lS6o’s, and life for him
seems to have been one long courageous
battle, in which he and his never got to th»
top, but always kept far from the bottom.
Those who lived in Brisbane when every in-
habitant was accustomed to ask the first per-
son he bumped against if he couldn’t stop
one may remember Mr, Foreman as the first
inspector appointed in Queensland by the
R.S.P.C.A.; he persuaded the City Council
to issue the enamelled drinking-troughs for
dogs which used to be a feature of every
shop entrance in the city. The book is valu-
able to anyone interested in the middle
period of Queensland history.
The Gospel According to Judas Iscanot,
by Ernest Sutherland Bates (Heinemann).
Professor Bates’s “gospel” is based on the
heresy of the Marcionites. Jehovah and
J'esus are strongly opposed to each other;
Jesus scoffs at the idea of the Immaculate
Birth; but, disappointed and worried when
His teachings are rejected by His people, the
Jews, He listens to the wily words of Jeho-
vah and believes that He really is the Son
of God. Judas, who has been trying all along
to save Him from Jehovah, thinks that if he
gives Him to the priests and Jehovah does
not rescue him, Jesus will be disillusioned.
He accepts the 30 pieces of silver only on
condition that he will be able to buy Jesus
back for them, hut is tricked by the priests,
and Jesus goes to His death and is buried in
an unknown grave. Professor Bates has writ-
ten a beautiful and moving book, none the
less reverent because he gibes at the Flood,
the Red Sea crossing and the raising of the
dead, and makes Satan a Prince of Wisdom
and Judas a hero.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions vo u
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Murgil; A sordid story, and not so well
done that it beats this handicap H.E.1.: But that’s
not Australia any more than the wart on his nose
was Cromwell.... Dole: Adult males contribute 7d.
a week to the British unemployment insurance fund;
the employer pays Bd. Benefits are 17s. a week for
a man, 7s. for his wife and 2s. for each child....
0.T.: British rates of tax are a bit higher, but
allowances are move generous. Where income is
wholly earned a married Briton with one child is
exempt to £342 ; with two children, to £402 ;
with three, to £462. He can claim another £25
if he maintains a dependent relative W.D.A.:
Much more of that sort of stuff and the basket will
up and bite us 0.V.: Might get it in an In
Memoriam column somewhere —by paying. .. .8.P.:
The best on that subject for a week. And the worst.
. ...C.W.8.: The w.p.b. opened its mighty jaws and
took it in P.H.: Endurance-effort verse
L.W.8.: No “Evening” to-day, thank you H.C.:
Yes, for sincerity’s sake:—
He’s gone to higher Triumphs
Higher trials. France you should mourn him
For his was the will to do the power he made.
Then a voice greater e’en than any human voice
Called him ; he answered his name was written
high above his name was called he had to go
and leave a mourning people; France it’s up to
you to erect a Tombstone.
. ...H.D.: Champion and reserve ribbon for effort
to rhyme “kewpie ditty” with “stupidity” 8.W.:
Please, miss, that sob-stuff was too bad-—it put out
the fire A.M.: It’s p.m. now L.P.: But you
don’t think that’s a new picture, do you? L.A.:
You can do better; you ought to do better; you’ll
need to do better C.C.T.: You have courage or
something to finish a sonnet with the line: “O
Night, the dead of night, starlight, midnight!”....
J.N.: Glitters, but quantity not payable A.M.C.:
A tragedy averted (or was it averted?) :
Then stay thy rash hand! oh, forsaken wife,
Bear the burden that has been allotted
And the light of his love shall lead thee through life,
For as yet thou art pure and unspotted.
Get thee back to thy child, from sorrowing cease,
For the angels will guard thee with care,
And the days of thy life shall be sweetened with
peace,
But woe to thy heartless betrayer.
D.W.: No glad eye for “The Pirate” Grave-
yard: Sorry; only cremations on this floor S.C.:
A postman will let you know “What Happened to
j ones >> S.E.D.: Not enough fruit on the family
tree... .M.M.C.: No vacancy for the apprentice with
“sandy hair and green eyes”. .. .Gecko: Interest
limited. •. .R.C.: Dickens and dishwater. .• . E.C.1..
Cowrie stone misses the mark F.W.M.: Too much
fat in the fire....K.8.: Banal... -J.J-: Not full
strength G.M.8.: Candidate’s deposit returned.
... .S.G.C.K.: Sentiment overdone E.W.: Sordid
theme, exaggerated in the treatment A.R.: Your
candid friend is wrong. The Bulletin publishes
on their merit contributions from all parts of the
world. Yours don’t suit F.S.C.: You see nothing
neVl - R.H.: Try your hardest, and we shall be glad
to hear from you... .W.8.L.: Gets nowhere... .Senti-
mental Sonny:—
I know not what ship I’m boarding;
I care not to what port l drift.
Evidently, when in your first stanza you try to
rhyme “boarding” with “calling” and “drift” with
“resist”... .A.D.V.: Hope you’re strong —the track is
long and stony.... Aspiration: Seems to call for
aspirin... .M.A.F.: Didn’t annoy, but not quite up
to scratch... .Raupo: It takes a powerful kick to
get elegiac verse through... .M.S.: A witty ending
isn’t enough A.M.M.: Of the sort of mystic verse
that’s spelt with an “i”....M.F.: Even light verse
can’t afford to be slight G.M.: Too many in the
ring already.... J.W.W.: Such general statements,
however sincerely meant, don’t make out a case....
A. 11.: Tolerably well written, but what a mushy
hero! L.M.R.: Can’t film the scenario M.M.:
Man from China bowed out.. . .S.C.M.: Neither the
brute nor the moth tempts u5....E.F.: Guilty, and
the sentence will not be suspended—you wrote on
both sides of the paper... .Nereus: Sizer isn’t as
original as we hoped he was if he threw that ancient
gibe at a man....W.D., G.M.R. and others: But all
that’s admitted. The point at issue is the one you
admit you don’t know anything about—Who was
to blame? Tuan (and others): Please don’t re-
hash the Saturday night sporting news for The
Bulletin. It’s a shame to spoil good copy-paper.
... .Knut: Kipling got the Nobel Prize for literature
in 1907; Yeats in 1923 and Shaw in 1925. It is
worth about £9OOO now A.J.H.: Enter, with “The
Mystrious Author”:—
At the foot of the tree laid an old black book
Which the lad passed many ap hour
By writing a story on what he had seen
While going a long on his tour.
I can’t get no work the young mah said
My father won’t let me go home
So I don’t give a hang if I starve on the way
I’m a Man, and I’m going to rome.
(His girl also has turned him down. He fills the
“last leave of the book,” signs it “The Mystrious
Man,” and posts.)
One day in a paper these words did appear
you buy tin's has quick as you can
its the Wandering Story, a jolly good story
and its wrote by the Mystrious man.
(He returns to the girl’s home, to be sharply
informed that she is going to seek for the Mystrious
man who wrote the great story.)
I don’t want you miss, he said with a smile
I came here to try and get water
But you may wish for the rest of your life
For I’m the Mystrious Author.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
S.P.: Don’t throw in the towel yet 8.A.: Your
ladies are not alluring; your art is slapdash
L.A.R.: Suggestive of the cranks who turn out
futuristic furniture. .. .P.M.D.: You’ll have to
discipline your wayward pen.... J.P.D.: Straphangei
staggering home.... J.H.: We don’t dispute their
originality, but the originality is without merit
J.G.: Have seen worse—but not much worse....
L.C.W.: Those tiresome brats.... J. 8.: It is a slow-
motion joke; it’s taken three years to reach you.
. ...R.L.N.: No cheque for you J.T.: “Story
without Words” leaves us speechless.


9
...
f
I
M
i
in
■■■.
■
. *UL\
Hi
Ksga
fV*
Khnik.lo
JUBlXjlk*
-v. \
' / ' \ J ' i
.
m -jr.
urn :: m
■
m
¥,
■
r*
,V *, % •
/*■
■ m
. \
r- ijS • i
\
1


The Bulletin
"Vol. 50. —No. 2575.
June 19, 1929.
THE ABO. STATE GETS THE MOVIES.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
214 George Street, Sydney; Box 252188.
Victoria : 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 249 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place , Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London: 36 Southampton Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
5 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies.—Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom: 4oz. to 10oz., lid. ;
each additional 40z., Id. All Sea Route: Itioz., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4°z. or part thereof,
Id. lilsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ..5
A FRONT-PAGE CARTOON BY LEASON . . 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
Wool in Danger!—
By L. S. Rix .. .. .. .. .. 8
THE INCOME-TAX BLIGHT 8
A Minister for Poverty .. 8
DRY ROT IN THE POST OFFICE .. ..8
THE EXPERT IN COURT, by the Hon.
Daniel Levy, Speaker of N.S.W. Assembly 9
WAS GENERAL McCAY TO BLAME ?. . . . 9
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 9
POLITICS (with caricatures) . . . . . . 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) 11, 12
PERSONAL (with three drawings) . . . . 14
POVERTY POINT 15
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. .. 17
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 18, 20
GOLDSBROUGH MORTS 18
AUSTRALIAN GLASS 18
AIT. ISA, by Frank Hambridge . . .. .. 20
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 23, 25
Free Service Department ■ • • • .. 26
AIAN ON THE LAND 28, 32
A FERTILISER AIIXING CHART .. ..28
DON’T TOP DRESS TOO OFTEN .. ..28
SAIOKE-OH 34
PEN AND PICTURE 37
SPORTING (Illustrated) 39, 41, 42
ROSEHILL AND WILLIAMSTOWN RACES .. 39
RUGBY UNION—N.S.W. v. VIC 41
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC 42
CHATTER FROAI MELBOURNE 44
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 46
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP . . .. .. 49
“The Quartermaster” ■ .. 50, 51, 52, 58
A COMPLETE STEELE RUDD STORY, 55, 57, 58
VERSE—
“FAILURE AT FORTY,” by E. AV. O’Brien .. 23
“DESERTED,” by Kathleen Dalziel .. .. 25
“MAY VIOLETS,” by Norma L. Davis .. 58
“MARRIAGE MORN,” by R. Crawford.. ..58
NEXT WEEK:
“JUDSON SEES IT THROUGH,”—a Complete Story
by Albert Dorrington (see page 52 this issue).
TfuftßulletzAl
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 19, 1929.
THE INCOME-TAX BLIGHT.
Having made the State income-tax more
burdensome than ever, by way of financing
crazy Labor-socialist legislation which it
hasn’t the pluck to repeal, the N.S.W.
Bavinsiiaw Government complacently
announces that it will have received
£7,000,000 from that source by the end of
June, when the financial twelvemonth closes.
In the last pre-war year the revenue from
State taxation amounted altogether to
£2,330,000—and Holman was no Joseph
Hume. The State income-tax yielded
£1,290,000. Allowing for a population in-
crease of about 620,000 —1,850,000 to
2,470,000 —and for the additional cost of
departmental labor and materials, the State
Government ought to be able to get along
well with an income-tax revenue of, at most,
£2,250,000, considering that the war, repatria-
tion and old-age-pensions expenditure is
borne by the Commonwealth.
The difference between £2,250,000 and
£7,000,000 is the price the N. S. Wales citi-
zens are paying in one year for many years
of the grossest misgovernment, the wildest
excesses in State finance.
In raising the income-tax to the sky, Aus-
tralian politicians have followed the English
precedent, never considering that in England,
but not in Australia, there are a rich
landed aristocracy, vast groups of industries,
the growth, it might be said, of centuries,
and an upper-middle class with huge over-
seas investments, demonstrating altogether
a much greater capacity to pay. But they
have not adopted the English plan of mak-
ing the tax simple and understandable, pre-
ferring to baffle their victims with formulae
such as: “On income from property, first
£1 3 1-181.058 d., increased by 1-181.058 d. for
each £1 to £546.” Neither do they grant con-
cessions to people who are giving their
sons and daughters higher education at
their own expense, as the English do; nor
have they decentralised administration and
provided swift and inexpensive machinery
for the redress of grievances, as the English
have done. In England there are local in-
spectors of taxes, empowered to deal on
their own responsibility with applications
for refunds—as when tax deducted at the
source of dividends exceeds the amount due
on total income. Here it is the hardest
thing in the world to get a refund from the
central (and only) office. Generally speak-
ing, a man who disputes an assessment has
the choice of paying the sum demanded,
perhaps illegally, with 10 per cent, added
if he can’t pay on the prescribed date, or
fighting a lawsuit with the knowledge that
if it goes against the department it will
be carried from court to court. Those
who go to law win, for the average
income-tax measure is a botched piece of
legislation passed in a hurry by bored and
uncomprehending legislators and leaving in-
ordinate power to officials, which power, the
Judges have repeatedly declared, is abused.
But litigation is a resource denied to all
but the well-to-do.
Nor do Australians get the melancholy
privilege, conceded in England, of paying
tax on earned income in two equal instal-
ments on fixed days, the first of January and
the first of July. In N. S. Wales the
citizen never knows when (or what) he
will have to pay until his Federal and State
assessment notices reach him. They gener-
ally arrive within a few weeks of one an-
other at the most expensive time of the
year for the family man—just when winter
is coming on and new outfits of warm cloth-
ing have to be bought, to say nothing of
fuel. In the past, even when Lang was
Treasurer, a few weeks’ grace was granted
to embarrassed taxpayers who could show
that their unfortunate position was not
their own fault. Under Bavinsiiaw rule
this small measure of consideration has
been stonily withdrawn. Most of those
to whom it has been refused are National-
ists. Fully three-fourths of the N.S.W. tax-
payers are Nationalists. Heaven knows
what return they get for voting Nationalist,
beyond the privilege of being plundered
to keep Labor-socialist policies alive.
DANGER AHEAD FOR WOOL.
In 1927 Australasia produced roughly one-
third of the wool grown in the world, and
if fine wools alone are considered the per-
centage was much greater. If instead of
exporting all or nearly all this wool in the
grease we could manufacture it here and
export it in the shape of finished woollen
goods, the business would be ideal. Un-
fortunately industrial and other difficulties
have made it uneconomical for us to manu-
facture more than a small percentage of the
textile goods required even for our local
needs. And the wool-grower and those
dependent on the wool-grower must face the
position not as it might be but as it is.
We are not self-contained. We depend
almost entirely on the price realised by the
sale of our raw wool outside to pay the
interest on our loans, to develop the country
and to maintain the present standard of
living; for it is an astonishing fact that we
have not so far succeeded in producing
one single commodity, either primary or
secondary, of any magnitude which we can
profitably sell overseas except wool. For a
long time Australia has thus been living
on w r ool alone; its financial stability depends
on wool alone; its North Shore bridge and
its fine buildings have been built on wool
alone; The present standard of living, the
recreation and leisure enjoyed by all classes,
has been made possible only by our ability
to sell our wool abroad at a profitable price.
So far we have been able to do this; but
can we continue to do it?
Since this time last year, when values
were not at all phenomenal, wool has fallen
30 per cent, and is still falling. The trade
is sick, very sick indeed. It has often been
sick and has recovered before irremediable
damage has been done, but now it is suffer-
ing from an insidious and progressive ill-
ness which, if we do not make great efforts
to help ourselves, time can only aggravate.
There are several causes for the slump in
prices. Among them is the rivalry of South
Africa; but this is only a minor factor, and
though I think Australia should have pro-
hibited the export of stud sheep as far back
as the Boer War, a decline in wool values
would inevitably have taken place, even if
South Africa had never existed. Nor is it
due to overproduction, for statistics show
that the present world production of wool
is only slightly greater than in pre-war
years, while the population of the world
has increased rapidly.
To cure an illness one must first diagnose
the cause. In this case it is principally the
change of fashion in women’s clothes and
the competition of cheaper, inferior and
more scintillating substitutes. The long
flowing robes of a few decades ago have
happily been replaced by shorter and more
sensible skirts, which it is hoped will remain
the vogue. A less sensible change has been
the substitution of artificial silk for under-
and over-clothing and for hosiery formerly
made entirely of wool. This latter change
is all to the bad from a health point of
view, from an economical point of view or
aesthetically. If the financial position of
Australia alone is considered it is a calamity.
The restricted demand for and the lessen-
ing price of wool has for a long time given
concern to growers, and very soon, if the
decline in values is not checked, it will
loom equally important in the eyes of eveiy
other member of the community. Investi-
gations show that the high cost of Aus-
tralian wool production is due mainly to
(1) wages awards; (2) high rents, assess-
ments and taxation; and (3) excessively
high rail freights, ocean freights and brokers’
commissions and warehousing charges, etc.,
over none of which the grower has much
if any control. True, the grower can reduce
his staff; but a very large percentage of the
wool grown in Australia is produced by
owners of small flocks who, except at shear-
ing time, with the assistance of their
families do all the work themselves. Even
now these men can barely make ends meet;
and the only way by which they can reduce
their expenses is by neglecting the education
of their children or by cutting down food
and clothes still further.
Moreover, although it is imperative that
the cost of production should be reduced,
it can never be reduced low enough to en-
able wool to compete on a first-cost basis
with synthetic silks and substitutes for
w'ool, which can be sold as low as 3d. per
pound.
With all these facts in mind, and recog-
nising the vital necessity of rehabilitating
wool in popular fancy and stabilising it at
a payable price, the Graziers’ Association
of N. S. Wales at the last annual conference
appointed a committee to submit sugges-
tions for a wool-publicity cam-
paign. The recommendations of this com-
mittee now await the endorsement of the
Federal Pastoral Council. The idea is to
influence fashion, to educate the public in
the advantages of woollen wear, its more
lasting properties, its greater refinement of
appearance, its healthfulness and comfort,
and to establish research bureaus to stimu-
late new ways of weaving and to search out
new uses for wool. It is considered that a
compulsory levy of one-sixteenth of a
penny per pound on all wool exported from
Australia would yield an annual sum suffi-
cient to finance the campaign; and it is
very confidently hoped that this individually
small contribution will yield immediate
results, as the very fact that an advertising
campaign of such magnitude is about to be
launched will instil confidence into manu-
facturers and spinners.
Though relatively not much wool is
manufactured here, Australia is a big cus-
tomer for textile goods from the U.K. and
the Continent, and Australians should be
taught that, without gaining even a tempo-
rary advantage, they are imperilling their
standard of living by buying imitations of
and substitutes for woollen goods. It should
also be made a penal offence for goods to
be sold as woollen which are not true to
label. Australia will receive this year prob-
ably £15,000,000 less for its wool than it
got last year, and, if the downward tendency
of prices is not checked, next year’s cheque
can easily be £30,000,000 smaller. On these
figures how otherwise are we to maintain
anything like our present standard of living?
L.S. RIX.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Local and Foreign Borrowing—the
Difference.
The Premiers lately assembled again in
Loan Council to discuss the raising of the
wind and the leaving of the responsibility
to posterity. The familiar statement was
made that loans will be used for essential
works and no other; but, then, loan works
are practically always essential, whether they
are roads, schools, mental hospitals, dredg-
ing jobs or bridges and repairs, and more
essentials are coming to light every day.
A very great number of thesq, especially the
unprofitable sort, used to be paid for out of
revenue because the country had the money
and the politicians had the courage. They
are now paid for out of borrowings because
the country lacks the money and the poli-
ticians lack the courage.
At one time the raising of big loans in
Australia was easy, and in the war time
they were badly wanted. Between 1914
and 1921, a period of seven years, the local
community dug £346,432,156 out of its
pockets and lent it to its various Govern-
ments. We could no longer do anything
like that, and the reason is plain. In 1917
exports exceeded imports by £21,700,000,
which was £2 300,000 over what was required
to meet foreign liabilities. In 1927 imports
exceeded exports by £19,600,000, and foreign
liabilities had soared to £33,200,000 a year.
On the transactions of 1927 the community
had £55,100,000 less to invest in local loans
or spend on local works than on those of
1917, and the great bulk of this was due
to lack of production and excess of con-
sumption.
It is reckoned that the various Govern-
ments annex as taxes £l9 12s. out of every
£lOO value produced in Australia. If loans
are subscribed locally, and interest is paid
to local people, then the Government taxes
the interest. And when the owner dies his
ghost is taxed. But this doesn’t and can’t
happen in the case of oversea borrowings.
Australia neither collects on the interest,
nor on the investments in which the interest
is put, nor on the capitalist’s spook when
he goes wherever oversea capitalists go.
All these are collected on, but not by us.
External loans are tax-free loans so far as
we are concerned. Five per cent, interest
payable on a local liability may boil down
in the long run to a little over 4 per cent.,
but the external one doesn’t boil down
worth 2d.
In view of these and other considerations
the need to reduce imports to a point
where the external loan will become super-
fluous is worth consideration.
4 _
A Minister for Poverty.
In addition to including a woman in his
Cabinet, Ramsay MacDonald has supplied
Britain with another novelty in the shape
of a Minister for Unemployment. The idea
seems the brightest in the new Govern-
ment’s repertory. When the man with the
Poverty portfolio sums up the situation he
will probably recognise that there is an
excess of population. England and \\ ales,
the section of Britain that really counts,
has 673 inhabitants to the square mile.
Leaving out Monaco, which is four square
miles of gambling table, Belgium alone
equals that; no other State in Europe,
Asia, Africa or America does. China, with
97 to the mile, is hardly even “among those
also present” at the feast. Great Britain
has 500 to the mile, but that includes the
half of Scotland which, like Norway, is
only scenery. By the latest reports Italy
has 349 to the mile, Germany 347, France
a humble 191. France has, to a great extent,
avoided having unemployed by not having
a superfluity of people to unemploy.
The Minister for Poverty has already had
part of a plan outlined for him by his
political leader. It includes an addition of
two years or so to the period of compulsory
education, so that the young won’t come
on the unemployed list so early. On the
other hand, the old-age pension conditions
are to be so liberalised that the elderly will
go off the list earlier. The raising of the
school age ought, to be a blessing; the
other reform will for the most part merely
change a number of persons from recipients
of the unemployed allowance to dignified
pensioners who are drawing the reward of
long service.
The pension scheme will cost more, but it
will “save face,” and MacDonald travels on
the principle that Britain is a rich country
which can afford to save its face. Certainly
it is reducing its debts, while dissipated
countries like Australia are increasing theirs
out of all reason. Its latest favorable trade
balance, including receipts for services
rendered abroad, was £96,000,000, whereas
Australia’s balance is always on the wrong
side. Thus, though Britain’s population
has outgrown employment, there are allevi-
ations.
Having struck a good idea, MacDonald
is in great danger of spoiling it by being
a crank. His predecessor’s view was that
though Britain’s bankers and shipowners
may earn £500,000,000 in a year abroad, and
thus make the aggregate national balance-
sheet beautiful to behold, yet plain people
at home want a chance to earn more money
at making everyday things right there. Bald-
win worked hard at supplying this want by
the well-tried method of protecting (or “safe-
guarding”) British industry. He was making
distinct progress, though the iron people
and textile people were only beginning to
be converted. Now both Lloyd George
and MacDonald shout for whole-souled
neglect of British industry, and lavish en-
couragement to the importation of foreign
goods of all sorts. If they don’t falter in
ill-doing the Minister for Poverty will find
himself carrying water uphill in a sieve.
♦ —
Dry Rot in the Post Office.
There is something radically wrong with
the administration of the Postmaster-
General’s department, especially on the
financial side.
A concern which charges a penny a word
for inter-State telegrams, three halfpence
for delivering a suburban letter (Canada
and Maoriland have penny postage) and
twopence for an ordinary public telephone
call ought to be highly profitable, and
under the Poynton regime, to go no farther
back, it was. In 1922-23 income exceeded
expenditure by £1,466,059. But under
Poynton’s successor, Gibson, the depart-
ment has drifted into the habit of leaning
heavily on the taxpayer. It has had four
successive deficits—of £242,322, £285,337,
£172,061 and £230,663 —and it had the effron-
tery to declare this last result “satisfactory.”
The Postal branch returned a profit of
£403,850 as against £1,470,267 in 1922-23;
the Telephone and Telegraph branches
showed losses of £322,438 and £312,075
respectively.
No one can honestly say that services
have noticeably improved, so there must
be gross laxity somewhere. And there obvi-
ously is gross laxity in one of the unpayable
branches, otherwise the horde of lawless
shop bookmakers would not be so lavishly
supplied with telephones. The Bulletin
recently referred to the case in which a
Sydney starting-price parasite was found to
have six telephones in his den, while appli-
cants requiring telephone connections for
legitimate purposes were told they might
have to wait six months. This led to what
the Daily Guardian described as the dis-
covery of “an amazing network of secret
telephone lines worked through Sydney
G.P.O. by employees and used for supplying
racing information to hotels and s.p. shops.”
The Labor Daily amplified the Guardian’s
account. In reply, the department in-
formed the S. M. Herald, with no excess of
candor, that the fraud had not extended
beyond one particular subscriber, “and that
one man had been dismissed and others had
suffered penalties.” The nature of the
penalites was left to the imagination.
The S. M. Herald mentioned to the high
official who gave this information, or from
whom it was dragged, that “telephones were
used extensively by big s.p. shops in the
city.” The gentleman replied that the
department was “not a censor of public
morals.” The real point, however, is, no'
whether the department is a censor o:
morals, but whether it is not a censor o'
morals when it pays somebody that it
should be, and is blind to almost anythin
when that is most profitable or convenient
for somebody.
More or less associated with that is tie
lack of effective supervision, resulting £


THE MINER’S FAREWELL TO HIS STEED.
“SIX RACECOURSES were supported in the neighborhood of Cessnock. Six racecourses flourished under the banner of the Newcastle Jockey Club. Many pairs of miners
invested in a horse, instead of a house Some have sold their horses; others still persevere in the hope that success will continue to recoup them.”
—Sydney SUN
DEJECTED OWNER (a long way after Mrs. Hemans): “My beautiful, my beautiful, my faithful steed, you’re sold!
Perhaps when pits are manned again, and idle steamers coaled,
Re-bought, you’ll help me, as of yore, to steep my dreams in gold.’
appalling waste of money—more especially
in the telephone branch of the service.
♦
Was General McCay to Blame?
“927”: If General McCay was the greatest
military genius in history, the battle of
Fromelles would have still failed owing to
the inexperience and in many cases in-
efficiency of the officers who served him.
For the major portion of the Fifth
Division it was their first battle; they had
no knowledge of the ground they were to
go over, or what to do when their objective
was gained. We were told about the stunt
two days before it was due, thus giving the
lads time to discuss it in estaminets, etc.,
practically “giving the oil” to Fritz. One
colonel read orders out in the middle of
the village where his battalion was billeted;
the fact that half the civilian population
stood round and listened didn’t seem to
come under his notice, though somebody
whispered: “The old should be
had up for manslaughter.” Fatigue parties
travelled to and from the front line in
broad daylight; in fact, the whole area
was moving with men, all under observa-
tion.
The hop-over never looked like a success.
True, the enemy’s front line was taken,
but those who held it knew the position was
hopeless. Ammunition was scarce, thousands
of Mills bombs were found to have been
sent across minus detonators, communica-
tion was cut off, one flank was “in the
air,” and the saps and communication
trenches leading to our front line were
blown to ribbons and full of dead and
wounded—in fact, impassable. When the
order to withdraw from the German line
was given, the men holding our original
front line knew nothing of it, and fired on
their own comrades, thinking them the enemy.
Those who want to know why the show
was a butchery must investigate lower down
the ladder than General McCay.
4
The Expert in Court.
Dear Bulletin, — Whenever the subject of
a case is one upon which competency to
form an opinion can be acquired only by
a course of special study or experience, the
opinions of skilled witnesses are admissible.
That such witnesses often make mistakes,
and that there is much conflict of opinion
among them, is too trite a subject to pursue.
It would be idle to deny the great value
of this class of evidence, which of course
varies with the knowledge and experience
of the witnesses themselves. For example,
in patent suits experts give evidence to ex-
plain the technical terms employed, to show
the state of scientific knowdedge existing
at the time of the grant, to explain the
nature, working, characteristic features and
probable mechanical results of an invention,
together with what is old or new in the
specifications and how far scientific advance
has been made thereby, as well as, in the
case of rival inventions, to point, out the
similarities or differences therein and how
far they are material or unimportant. The
scientific evidence of medical men is invalu-
able in certain criminal trials, more especi-
ally poisoning cases and cases where the
question of insanity is raised.
At present, the evidence of these experts
is employed for the purpose of producing a
certain result; namely, a verdict for one
side or the other. In criminal cases, I am
free to admit that expert scientific witnesses
called by the Crown exhibit a degree of
impartiality. But in all other cases the
expert witness generally gives evidence
favorable to the party who calls him. The
element of unconscious bias is no negligible
factor, and very often the greater the expert
the greater is the danger to the administra-
tion of justice.
Now, it would appear desirable that these
expert witnesses should be called by the
Court, not by the parties to a case; or,
better still, that the Judge should have,
sitting with him, one or more assessors to
advise him in cases involving technical,
scientific or special knowledge. In England,
ever since the Judicature Act of 1873, the
Judges have had general powers to sit with
assessors in such cases. In N. S. Wales in
certain jurisdictions skilled persons of
special skill or knowledge may sit as
assessors, e.g., in the Marine Court ships’
captains and marine engineers may so sit.
In the Workers’ Compensation Commission
a medical referee frequently sits with the
Commissioners to advise on medical evi-
dence. Why can we not extend this practice
to all our Courts? It is true that the rich
man will always have an advantage in this
world, whether it be in a law court or in
a railway train. But while we glibly repeat
the well-known words of Magna Charta “we
will sell to no man justice or right,” should
we not adopt a practice which would in
criminal cases often avert a miscarriage of
justice, and in civil cases substantially
reduce the weight in the scale in favor
of the wealthy suitor?—Yours, etc., Daniel
Levy.
+
The MacDonald Cabinet.
“The Labor party is neither Bolshevist nor Com-
munist. It is opposed to force, revolution and con-
fiscation as means of establishing the new social
order. It believes in ordered progress and in demo-
cratic methods.” —British election announcement.
With the exception of Mr. Lansbury, who
will be controlled by a “moderate” colleague
in J. H. Thomas, and possibly Mr. Shin-
well, there is not a member of the Left Wing
in the MacDonald Ministry. All the best-
advertised agitators— Maxton, Saklatvala,
Citrine, Harry Pollitt, A. J. Cook— are out
in the cold, and most of them have not
even got into Parliament.
When the new Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer, Philip Snowden, held that office
in 1924 he was urged to abolish the duties
on beer and tobacco. He refused to provide
his supporters with cheap luxuries on such
lines. His views have been well known to
the workers ever since; also his question,
which has never been answered: “If you
abolish capital what will be the use of the
Labor party?”
This Minister, and others like him, repre-
sent a vote of no-confidence in the ■ wild
men who began Britain’s coal strike, did
their best to keep it going, and called
those who advocated industrial peace and
increased productivity traitors to the work-
ers’ cause. The MacDonald Ministry
has been greeted with cheers by the mili-
tants in Australia. As a matter of fact,
it represents a smashing defeat for nearly
everything that modern militancy stands
for, whether in England, Russia or Australia.
*
The Stunt Press.
One of the few things the British election
proved was the futility of the “stunt” press.
The Rothermere and Beaverbrook papers,
which between them are read morning and
evening by 90 per cent, of the classes that
generally vote Conservative, ranted im-
partially at Baldwinism and Labor. The
basis of the campaign against the ex-Prime
Minister was personal. He would not com-
pete with Mr. Lloyd George for the favors
of the rival Napoleons of Fleet-street. Both
gave the Liberal leader strong support in
the most acceptable quarter—their news-
columns. Both let England know how much
they admired him; both were at his last
meeting in the Albert Hall. On results
their efforts did not gain him a vote.
Baldwin’s sole uncritical supporter amongst
the great dailies was the Morning Post, the
organ of the Tory aristocracy, and Mac-
Donald had only the Daily Herald, which
is read exclusively by Laborites. Yet their
parties swamped Liberalism.
It. does credit to the intelligence of the
British electors, and should have reactions
here. Clearly a straight-going public man
has nothing to fear from the adventurers of
journalism. They may run along in front
of public opinion when they have the
cunning to guess which way it will go, but
they cannot fool the public into following
them if they take a line of their own.
*
A Use for Yachting.
The St. Kilda Yacht Club has applied to
the Ministry in Victoria for permission
to occupy an additional scrap of foreshore,
and by a strange quirk it is the Argus
which opposes the request most bitterly.
The club has been after this extension for
years, but has been refused by successive
Governments on the plea that the foreshore
belongs to the people. So it does; but that
is no reason why people who are trying to
keep alive one of the few clean and un-
commercialised sports should not be given
facilities for getting at the water. At
present docking space is so short that yachts
have to remain all the year round at their
moorings in an exposed anchorage and to
the delight of the borer.
In the Argus’s objection to the club’s
petition there seems to linger an echo of
an earlier opposition to an Australian navy,
Even in these days of electrically-driven
warships a sea mind is best kept alive in a
nation by the existence of a vigorous love
c f the sport of boating. Open-boat sailing
breeds resource and self-reliance, and there
j s no better school for life than deep-sea
cruising. The contempt for a career in the
r.A.N. is largely due to the fact that 99
p c Q f Australians never get nearer to the
sea than the deck of an excursion steamer,
except when bathing,
„ . . . ,r ~ . ,
Politicians periodically upend themselves
and deplore the fact that Scandinavians
monopolise the Antarctic whaling industry.
You have to go to Scandinavia to under-
stand why. Despite the bitter winter
and the brief summer there, more yachting
and boating are done from Marstrand, a
little seaport about the size of Frankston,
than in the whole of Victoria, despite its
temperate climate. Frozen over for months
though it is, the Baltic becomes as alive
with sailing craft in spring as Sydney Har-
bor. In Victoria boat-sailing is dying, and
perhaps it is one of the symptoms that even
Melbourne’s fish is being supplied by Syd-
ney trawlers,
+
A —' s Own Colored Citizens.
“Torres”: Three or four years ago The
Bulletin prophesied that the colored popu-
lation which dwells just within Australia’s
front doorst wou i d J sudden ly wake up and
find that it was entitled to the privileges of
citizenship. The expected has happened
and the rolls for the electorate of Cook
(which , takes Thursday Island and the
surrounding islands, as well as a big slice of
'S^ 00 * who. though living under
Euro P ean , conditions and earning good
wage , s > had been claimed by the Protector
aS ab °?- The anomaly , was Jat in many
CaS f the ™ v t es <Y YY ma J ernit T
allowance, but that Queensland for its own
purposes wanted to keep them within abo.
restrictions, whereby they couldn’t have a
penny of their own money without permis-
sion of an autocratic protector,
The change in status is likely to have very
far-reaching effects. The people concerned
are all of Australian birth but of mixed
parentage. Where a colored citizen possesses
the vote there will probably be less chance
of his being summarily removed to Palm
Island aboriginal settlement on some trivial
pretext and without trial; and greater care
will be exercised in compulsorily making
boys “sign on” to trochus boats under
threat of fine and imprisonment,
A change in the administration will pos-
sibly be one of the ultimate results of the
action that has just been taken; and no
doubt the Federal Government has this in
mind.


eAEL/e
RED, WHITE and BLUE
WHISKY
Gaelic Special Reserve
DEARER BUT BETTER
ORME, KEIGWIN & CO., LTD.
269-271 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN AGENTS: JAMES HENTY & CO., 499 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: B. SEPPELT & SONS, LTD., 444 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
fli
©P'.EL Iq
Highland M
f
POLITICAL
POINTS
The policy speech of Vic. Premier McPher-
son contained little that was new. An agri-
cultural bank on Westralian lines, a Minis-
try of Transport, co-ordinating rail, tram
and road traffic, and extension of electricity
supply to more country towns (130 have it
already) were prominent among the items reeled
off in an hour’s reading in front of a broad-
casting microphone at Hawthorn. The rail-
way shortage for the year will be £BO,OOO,
but McPherson will have a little surplus
from general revenue, and the deficit may not
exceed £55,000.
Apparently nothing
can make a Bavin-
shaw Minister angry.
Visiting the Riverina,
Ball, who attends to
Lands, was tackled by
returned soldiers on
the score of a charac-
teristic Nationalist de-
cis i o n to appoint
boards to go into cases
where Digger-settlers
are in difficulties. One
indignant warrior told
him to his face that
the board business was
“only another confi-
dence trick,” that the
administration of sol-
dier-settlement was
“scandalous,” and that
“the childish simpli-
city of Mr. Ball and
his Cabinet would
excite hilarity but for
the underlying tra-
gedy.” The deputa-
tion waited for an
answering roar, but
all it got was a meek
Forbearing
Minister Ball.
assurance that the boards wouldn’t cost much.
It was natural that the northern coal-
miners should have rejoiced over Sydney’s
gas shortage. Their union, though tew of
them may realise it, is, in effect, a black-
mailing concern—reduced pressure in the
mains means increased pressure on the
victim. However, the crazy paternalism of
the Labor-Socialists, cravenly followed by
the Nationalists, should get its share of
blame. By demanding £2 in the £lOO of
wages for the Piddington child-endowment
business, the Government helped to close the
mines, and by providing the miners with
doles (the miners having refused to work
except on terms which make it a lot cheaper
to import coal) it is helping to keep the
mines closed.
The new Queensland Government is send-
ing E. H. Macartney to the London agency
to succeed Huxham. Macartney is a solici-
tor —he was the late A. J. Tliynne’s partner
—and was M.L.A. for Toowong for 19 years;
he has had Ministerial experience, and led
the Opposition for some years after the rout
in 1915. In short, he lias strong claims on
the party. All the same, Queensland does
not need an expensive London office, and that
part of the bloated establishment should not
escape Moore’s reforming zeal.
Though two Federal Arbitration Judges
are grappling with claims for increased wages
in State railway services, some of the rail-
waymen still patronise the State shops.
Westralia’s Arbitration Court recently
ordered 2s. a week to be added to the basic
wage, previously £4 55., and it is reckoned
that this will put £50,000 p.a. on the rail-
way wages bill. There xvas a railway surplus
of £26,700 in 1927-28. and one of £34.500 in
’26-’27, and very creditable they were; but
there will be none this year.
. In two years (1920 and 1921), when Arbi-
tration Courts were busy, the working ex-
penses of State railways rose from £18,590,378
to £29,470,587, or from £902 to £1371 per mile
of line. In 1925 and 1926 there was another
rise from £30,378,789 to £38,622,149. With a
further increase in 1927 the expense bill
climbed from £902 per mile in 1919 to £1666
per mile in 1927, and more results should be
due in 1932 and 1935. The proceedings of
Arbitration Courts raise the cost of living,
and the increased cost makes the Courts pro-
ceed to further acts of philanthropy. No
management can be prepared for sudden
spasms like these.
Disobliging for
once, the Bruce-
Page has refused
to increase the
petrol tax by four-
pence a gallon and
distribute the pro-
ceeds among the
States. The en-
raged Butler threat-
ens to impose a
corresponding State
tax, but that only
means another
costly High Court
case, and S. Aus.
crashed at the con-
stitutional hurdle
last time. Butler
and his fellow-
Premiers should
drop their plans
for making a dear
article dearer and
cut down the expen-
diture on motor
roads. Most motor-
Butler—never
happy unless he is
imposing taxes.
ists themselves regard the outlay as out-
rageous.
A deputation which is becoming familiar
to harassed State Premiers is the one which
asks that a minimum price shall be fixed for
wheat locally consumed, said minimum being
not less than the cost of production. Butler,
of South Aus., could only refer the deputa-
tionists to the men at Canberra. _ McPherson,
of Victoria, promised to consult his colleagues,
who proved to be bleakly unfavorable. The
United States idea is to put £100,000,000 of
its superfluous wealth into a sort of Wheat
Bank, which will finance the farmer with
cheap loans —as low as 2 per cent.
Music-lovers in Melbourne are proposing
a special amusements tax of a penny per
ticket to pay for a permanent symphony
orchestra. The staggering notion has fallen
on deaf ears. General opinion is that if the
devotees of St. Cecilia won’t pay for their
entertainment like other people they don’t
deserve to have it.
Hoping, perhaps, to allay the feeling against
assisted immigration, the Gepp-Gunn Com-
mission has published a return showing that
the thing has been going on so long that the
million mark has been exceeded; 286,138
assisted immigrants arrived prior to 1860,
and 761,938 have landed since. The highest
number of arrivals for any one year was
46,712 in 1912, and the lowest 102 in 1898:
last year 22,394 came in. Figures slumped
after the 1893 bank smashes, and again after
the 1903 drought and during the war, but
the chain has not been broken since 1860.
Even 1915 vi elded 5796 assisted immigrants
and 1916 1397.
Helped by an eccentric arrangement. of
electoral boundaries, Hertzog’s Nationalists
won the South African elections, and Hertzog
will be in a position to exclude Labor from
his Government if he chooses to run the
show with Boers alone,. Labor, rent by
faction, lost seats to the Nationalists and
Smuts’s South African party. Hertzog’s diffi-
culty will be with tlm Senate, where there
are 24 followers of Smuts, 15 Nationalists
and one Laborite.
Fritz will doubtless be delighted to hear
that' the Public Service Appeals Board has
found that W. C. P. Harvey, the Custodian of
Expropriated Properties, bought paint for
the New Guinea Administration from his
own particular eo. and shares in the co.—
300 for £50 —from a supplier of goods to the
Administration. Also that Harvey, in the
board’s judgment, has been punished too
severely, and a salary reduction from £9OO
to £B2B p.a. will meet the case. It would
be interesting to know what this extra-
ordinary body would regard as an offence
warranting dismissal.
Something like a record in Pecksuiflism
was put up by Jowitt, K.C., who, elected as
a Liberal, twisted to Labor when it was clear
that there would be a Labor Government.
One of the chief planks in his platform, as
submitted to the Cabinet-making Ramsay
MacDonald, was “abolition of profit-making.”
And then he disclosed his readiness to accept
the A.-G.-ship, which is worth, with salary
and emoluments, over £20,000 a year.
Two Nationalist lawyers, Harold Cohen
and Edward Reynolds, are engaged in a more
or less friendly fight for the Melb. South
seat in Vic. Uppish House vacated by the
death of Norman Falkner. Polling will
take place on Saturday; as voting is not
compulsory, it will be remarkable if more
than 40 p.c. of the 31,000 electoi-s on the roll
(21,261 men and 9836 women) exercise the
franchise. It looks as if Cohen will win.
In that case there will be two H. Cohens in
the House.
In Sydney and Melbourne the much too
numerous house-agent begins to complain
that the unlet house is getting much too num-
erous also. This is partly ascribed to closer
settlement in small homes, though settle-
ment has been pretty close for a long time.
Another cause, especially in Sydney, is the
building of those big blocks which are flats
while new, and tend to be mere tenement
houses in after years. The rest of the blame
is laid on the activities of fussy and well-
meaning Governments, which have spent
heaps of savings-bank money and loan money
on advances to builders of new homes on an
almost imperceptible margin of security.
Victoria is advertising for a State ento-
mologist to fill the shoes of Brittlebank, who
is retiring. The chosen one will take charge
of the plant-research laboratory, and con-
duct explorations into bacterial, fungoid, para-
sitic and other diseases; he must own a
bachelor of science degree and produce evi-
dence of specialisation in plant pathology.
The salary is £650 p.a.—about equal to that
of an under-manager of a Bourke-street
cinema.
The Bulletin had a carking suspicion
that the foreshadowed N. S. Wales surplus
of something approaching £500,000 was too
good to be accepted in all its nude simpli-
city, and lately-published statements corro-
borate this view. The Treasury now _ pays
£BOO,OOO a year towards the railway
deficiency, instead of paying the whole
deficiency in the old way. If after doing this
there is something like £500,000 in the cash-
box that will be the “surplus.” Should the
railway shortage be really £1,800,000, as
seems quite possible, there will be a million
unprovided for. The official attitude appears
to be that this is no affair of Government’s,
Government having done its duty when it put
the business undertakings of the State into
“a separate account.”
Since Treasurer Stevens’s new system
began to work N.S.W. dailies haven’t issued
the old convenient monthly information about
the earnings and outgoings of railways and
the like, simply saying that the new system
is in the way. When the year’s figures are
complete the size of dud the reformed
financial method is will be more apparent.
While' Stevens’s crowd was reforming it
might have included the child-endowment ex-
tortion among the taxes. There is no real
gain in being dodgy and surreptitious.
The Commission which investigated the
charges of N.S.W. Labor-leader Lang about.
sensational mis-
conduct, at the
Parramatta by-elec-
tion found that
they were not sus-
tained. It seems
the same as saying
that they weren’t
true, but the Auburn
estate-agent should
he used to that
hy now. The rolls
were, however, pro-
nounced “deplor-
able”; in fact,
Chief Electoral
O ffi ce r Harkness
admitted that, gen-
era 11 y speaking,
there was “in-
Harkness is candid.
accuracy to the extent of 30 p.c. in
any one year.” But Lang himself is
not guiltless on that count —he in-
sisted on taking the police from their
other duties to collect names for superfluous
State rolls instead of using the Common-
wealth rolls, which are kept in fair order
by postmen.
When the Vic. Chief Sec.’s department
prosecuted the manager of a picture concern
in Melb. for not registering under the State
Films Act, the technical plea that a l
not responsible was summoned was upneta,
and the case was dismissed. Minister Argy.e
has now evened up things by requiring com-
panies to apply for registration on a pre-
scribed form. An undertaking .bos to he
signed also that any further information
asked for by the permanent head of tne
department will be given.
Persuaded by Dr. Argyle and guided by
the legal lights in the Cabinet, the 1 ictorian
Government has now given public hospital
committees the chance to establish wards tor
full-paying and intermediate patients—in
other words, to set up the community sys-
tem. A glance at the regulations suggests
that they are a bit too pious. There is over-
much Governor-in-Council, Charities Board
and British Medical Association (veiled ) m
them. It will be interesting to see whether
the regulations will be merely a Govern-
ment Gazette notification or a gospel.
With the elevation of Apirana Ngata to
the Native Affairs portfolio an old land dis-
putc is likely to be
settled. In 1848
one Kemp pur-
chased from the
natives the greater
part of the South
Island of M.L.
Twenty years later
the Colonial Office
sent a certain Man-
tell to M.L. to in-
vestigate the mat-
ter ; he valued the
land (.30,000,000
acres) at £2,000,000,
and recommended —
unavailiugly that
reparation be made.
The matter has
been before the
Native Land Court,
off and on, ever
since there was a
court. Two diffi-
culties in the way
of a settlement —
ascertaining the
descendants of the
original owners and
getting them to
Apirana Ngata,
jolly leader of his
race.
agree to terms —
are now to fee overcome by setting up a com-
mittee with power to act.
In exports of surplus products in propor-
tion to population, both Canada and Maori-
land are ahead of Australia. On the other
hand, Australia .beats Canada and all but
one of 15 other countries enumerated in the
Federal “Year Book” in the matter of imports
per inhabitant. That may be because it
lives beyond its working capacity, or the
working capacity that its legislators and
strike-promoters allow it to exercise.
According to the annual report for 1928
the police force of N. S. A\ ales is 99.825 per
cent. British and 88.511 per cent. Australian.
Only 87 members of the force out of 3438
2.5 per cent. —were born in Murphys Isle,
and they arc outnumbered by Englishmen,
195, and Scots, 89.
The new and loud-sounding Common-
wealth-States financial agreement says that
10s. per £lOO per annum is to be set aside
out of revenue against all new liabilities.
If the money is really provided there will
be £1 per cent, or more set apart out of
revenue against local debts, and not one bean
against external ones, which will continue
to increase while the fellow at the other end
permits. A committee of financial experts
might be appointed to take the evidence of
Treasurers, bankers and auditors-general on
the situation, the evidence of the ex-parson
Garden and his kind to be barred.
There is something to be said for the
“shadow Cabinet” idea which the ousted
Conservatives propose to revive in Britain.
The system was tried when Asquith was
Liberal leader. Vic. Labor Opposition dele-
gates sub-committees or pairs to watch speci-
fied departments or bills. H'ogan allows a
little more latitude than Prendergast, who
thought he could cast himself for any part.
Eight committees are to go out in Vic-
toria and inquire what is a real living area
for a farmer. It is a vexed question. In
Egypt the dimensions of the average farm
are three acres; Bulgarian farms vary from
two to six acres; in France anything up to
25 acres is considered a fair thing. In N.S.W.
the average area granted as a homestead
farm is 10S1 acres; the maximum selection
which may be taken up in the favored East-
ern Division is two square miles, and in the
Central Division it is four square miles.
The small-proprietor system tends to keep
a very large proportion of the people beyond
the reach of want except in times of rare
caalmity. It is a serious problem to com-
bine closer settlement with areas big enough
to maintain the Australian standard of living
and the Piddington standard of wages.
O CAPTAIN! MY CAPTAIN!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Hughes, dealing with the Prime Minister’s
proposal to dispense with Federal Arbitration, likened
Mr. Bruce to a captain who bolts from the bridge
and deserts his ship when it springs a leak.”
O Captain ! My Captain ! —you’re nothing
of the sort,
Of course, and yet I hoped you’d bring the
hooker safe to port.
It’s been a pretty rotten trip to my embit-
tered thinking,
And now it looks to me as if the poor old
craft were sinking.
O heart! Heart! Heart
Of weevil size or midge!
You should be on the bridge, skipper—
Get back upon the bridge!
O Captain! My Captain! I needs must
call you so,
Although I’ve little time for you, as mighty
well you know.
There’s jagged rocks and reefs ahead with
breakers on them dashing.
And pirates on the weather bow with cut-
lasses a-flashing.
Here, Captain! Hi, Captain !
Belay there and avast!
Brace up and don’t be first to go—
You ought to be the last.
Oh, Captain ! My Captain !—albeit I decline
Save at election time to hold you officer of
mine—
The water’s rising in the hold what time
your job you’re shirking,
We’ll never see our port unless you get the
pumps a-working.
You’re weakening on your job, Captain;
You’re scared beyond a doubt.
I never left the bridge that way,
They had to throw me out.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Kakanui”: “Furpliy” (B. 29/5/’29) is
not an Australian coinage at all; it was used
in Maoriland 60 years ago. In the early
days of the Thames gold rush (1867-69)
there was a well-known prospector of this
name who was continually coming to light
with tales of huge reefs he’d found up at
Punga Flat or on the Collarbone. After
prospectors had gone up on several wild-
goose chases and found the reefs of new-
chum gold (iron pyrites) they would refer
to any tale of big finds up country as “one
o’ Furpliy’s.” As a matter of fact, some of
the old hands call iron pyrites “furphy” yet.
RIGHT FIRST TIME.
THE SHEIR: “For goodneth thake, v’y don’t you hop inf”
THE SHEILA: “Quite right, Izzy. I don’t—for goodness sake.”
“H. Remma” : One of the best-beloved padres
I encountered was a certain Major-Chaplain
Plnprmel who ioined the 9th Brigade A.1.F.,
well on in 1918. Whatever village we were
billeted in he would soon have the citizens
and the soldiers on the best of terms. At
first we attributed his influence over the vil-
lagers to his mastery of their language, but
this hardly seemed sufficient cause why the
civic authorities paid him such respect and
every little urchin saluted him. Also, his hesi-
tation over the meaning of some of our col-
loquialisms puzzled us till he gave his secret
awav. It transpired that lie was in private
life M. the Count de Ploermel, the Sfigneur
of the coastal town of that name. He had
graduated in a French University and joined
the Church, but ill-healtli had sent him to Aus-
tralia, where lie had spent the greatest part
of his life as an R.C. priest in Northern
Queensland. Only once did he take 14 days’
leave to visit his own people.
“Quack”: A unique operation for what
sounds like a unique injury was recorded
last week at the Western Suburbs Hospital,
Sydney. A youngster, pole-vaulting with a
broom-handle, slipped and drove the imple-
ment against his throat. His violently-smit-
ten tubes became so swollen that they closed
up. Interna] gases unable to escape caused
the unfortunate youngster to swell until he
began to resemble a drum or a balloon, and
without an immediate operation he must have
suffocated. Tracheotomy was useless, but
three doctors —Brooks, Morgan and I
—made incisions under the shoulders by
which they restarted the functions ot the
lungs. The boy is now one of the chirpiest
inhabitants of the hospital.
* * * *
“AW.L.” : Touching queer entries in mili-
tary paybooks (B. 5/6/’29). In June, lJlo,
X was awaiting an escort in the town-
major’s clink —a noisome _ hole —at Havre.
Amongst my companions in distress (some
were in chains, too) was a little five-toot-
notliing Scotsman —a Tommy artillery driver
—who had deserted and been arrested at
Bordeaux while trying to stow away on a
steamer bound for Spain. He told me he
had made two previous get-aways, and pro-
duced his pay-book as evidence. The entries
read somewhat as follows: “(a) July o,
1910: Sentenced to death for desertion by
field general court-martial. July b, 191 b:
The above sentence was commuted to five
years’ penal servitude. July 16, 1916: Inc
above sentence was commuted to 128 days
field punishment No. 1. (b) May 8, 1917:
Sentenced to death for desertion by held
general court-martial. May 12, 1917: I lie
above sentence was commuted to seven
years’ penal servitude. May 26, 191 < : The
above sentence was commuted to three years
penal servitude. June 2, 1917: The above
sentence was commuted to 2S days held
punishment No. 1.” I never heard what he
got for the third effort.
* * * *
“Victrelle”: Not all the indecent films
come from abroad (B. 29/5/’29). I know a
man in the business who has a select
c-ientele for whom he does a deal of spare-
time work, transforming their efforts at
picture-making into movies with more or less
success. The films are obviously not of a
kind that could bti sent to the regular “you-
press the-button-we-do-the-rest” firms. One
which I saw the other day, which was to be
“released” at a Sunday-night party in a
reputable suburb, depicted the gambols of
the guests (of both sexes) at the host s
week-end bungalow by the sea. Only once
before did I see anything like it, and that
was in my Digger days, in a maison in Skin-
street, Marseilles.
* * *
“Schnorrer”: People who howl about the
increase in divorce might cast an eye over
the Jewish laws and note their superiority
to ours Moses enacted that the husband who
found his Wife unchaste must divorce her;
and she remained the one woman he was
prohibited from marrying thereafter. The
woman so divorced could marry again—Haut
not the man with whom she had committed
adultery. That is the reverse of the conduct
expected from decent Christians; but con-
sider the subtlety of it! Many women who
are untrue to their husbands have an
affection for them, and feel confident of
being able to wheedle forgiveness if their
lit He adventure is discovered; the Mosaic
law made forgiveness impossible. Moreover,
consider the case of Levi (who would like
to have an illicit affair with Mrs. Shnoski
if lie were sure it couldn’t result in his
having to provide her with board and lodging
in the future) when he starts to wonder why
it is that the lady, who will never be able
to marry him, has selected him as a lover,
Is it because she wants to lorce her husband
to divorce her so that she shall be tree to
marry that bounder Solomon? A suspicion
of that sort would be enough to check the
ardor of a Levi of any race or
These are. some of the leas s for the e -
treme rarity ot divorce for adulteiy amongst
the Jews throughout the ages, and per laps
another is the knowledge in the woman that
the man who surreptitiously woos her merely
regards her as a passing plaything and acks
that deep desire to make her his own which
every woman likes to imagine a Lothario
feels tor Her.
„ .- , ~ T
Nakhoda : A claim oyer which the Law
indulged m some highly ingenious quibbling
was argued in a Melbourne court recently,
«A. woman claimed £l—oo under the will of
her late husband’s father. The document
stated that if the testator’s son married and
had issue, the money was to go to him or
his legatees. He did marry and had issue;
but the progeny arrived just too late to con-
form to the terms of the will. The father
died before his descendant was born and the
Court ruled that he had no issue. In parts
of Asia a Judge would be obliged to come
to a contrary decision. There the period of
gestation is logically enough regarded as
quite as important as any other period in a
person’s history. Hence he is' already nine
months old when he comes into the world.
“Buna” : The in-
dividuality that
typewriting often
shows (B. 5/6/’29)
is as well known
to detectives as are
the preculiarities
attaching to dif-
ferent brands of in-
struments. Not
long ago a well-
known woman in a
Sydney suburb was
annoyed by a chain
of scurrilous anony-
mous letters, and
handed the type-
written matter to
the police. A type-
writer expert im-
mediately named
the make or the
machine, adding
that it was anew
mode] and had been
very little used. It
was then a simple
matter to obtain
from the distribu-
tors of that parti-
cular line of goods
the names of recent
purchasers, all of
them city or subur-
ban business firms.
The machine in a
city office was
finally declared, on
certain minor pecu-
liarities in the type,
to be the culprit,
but the three typ-
ists who had access
to it exhibited none
of the little indi-
dual touches of the
perpetrator of the
letters. The offence
was finally traced
to the manager’s
missus, who had taken this means of getting
home on a social rival.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: A shop window in Bourke-street,
Melbourne, held an interesting exhibit the
other w T eek in the shape of a pair of silk
stockings made by hand in Ireland 90 years
ago. The original owner received them as
a contribution to her trousseau, but, instead
of wearing them, kept them for 30 years
and then passed them on to her daughter.
The second recipient did exactly the same
thing; the third possessor brought them to
Australia. But this is a prosaic age and
the cost of living is destructive of romance.
To-day the pair are full of darns, patches
and ladders, indicating that somebody’s legs
have been inside them.
“P. 8.1.”: In his
article on “The Flag-
ship” (B. 15/5/’29)
“J.H.M.A.” infers that
Army chaplains, un-
like Navy ones, hold
combatant rank. He
is misinformed. The
nearest approach to it
is that the head-serang
is officially known as
Chaplain-General, al-
though of course he
isn’t a General at all.
The others are simply
Ist-, 2nd-, 3rd- and
4th - class chaplains.
The stars and crowns
worn on the shoulder-
straps denote these
various classes only.
A chaplain should be
addressed as such, but
custom has altered the
prefix to “Padre.”
Military doctors, on
the other hand, used
to be designated Sur-
geon-Major, Surgeon-
Captain, etc.; but
after years of agita-
tion the “Surgeon”
was allowed to be
dropped (except in the
case of “Surgeon-
General” ), and the
combatant title was
assumed, although
they are of course
non-combatants. The
Digger seldom used it, though; he insisted
on calling all and sundry “Doc.”
* * * *
“E.S.” : To everyone’s astonishment, Buck-
ram, our" hard-case auctioneer,, heat Joe
riant, our champion gardener, in the cab-
bage section at the local show. Joe paid a
visit to his successful rival. “I was so
interested in your exhibit,” he said, that
I took the liberty of calling to look at your
garden. You’re the only man who has
beaten me at growin’ cabbages, an Ive been
wonderin’ how you do it. Maybe you can
show me a point or two.” Only one pomt,
Joe,” said Buckram. “You’ll recollect that
I paid you extra for a couple of big heads
the last time you were round with your cart.
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”; For a brief period
we had' as neighbors in our block of flats
a well-preserved country couple who, having
reared their family, have retired from hard
toil. Our flats are fitted with electric stoves
and every other modern inconvenience; and
Hayseed saw that such gadgets as electric-
cleaners and -irons were there. V\ e all
remarked how keenly Mrs. Hayseed must
enjoy the work-saving appliances. But the
Hayseeds stayed only a week. Hayseed,
meeting me in town, pressed me to run out
to their new joint, where I was entertained
in a brightly burnished kitchen, over which
shone the glow of a real fire in the range ;
and there, after tea, Mrs. Hayseed got busy
with a good old-fashioned iron on the laun-
dry work. “You’ve no idea how difficult it
is to find a place in Sydney you can (J ™?^ e
a real home,” said Mrs. Hayseed. ‘ Why.
even this place had a gas-stove, but we
JUST THE THING.
“Now you get this straight, Lionel—you’re the last man on earth
I’d think of for a husband.”
“Oh Freda, that suits fine—l’d hate you to think of anybody
after me.”
got the landlord to take it out and put
iu an oven instead.” Having tasted the
first dinkum wood-grilled chops and proper
toast I have sampled for ages, I am cor-
dially in sympathy with Mrs. Hayseed’s old-
fashioned notions.
:jc
“Mango” : One of the finest natural oyster
beds I know of is on the concrete piles
and braces of the half-mile-long Bowen
(N.Q.) jetty. There are a few thousands
of these “sticks,” and they are literally
encrusted with fine oysters. But the Har-
bor Board has forbidden oystcring, for other-
wise tons of concrete would be removed with
the shells and the piles weakened. So the
bivalves have nothing to fear from either
fishermen or sugar-loading wliarfies.
* * *
“Oran”: The Maorilanders who formed
part of the army of occupation on the Rhine
(B. 12/6/’29) not only fraternised after
the first few weeks with the Germans, but
some of them married German girls. When
the question of bringing Gretchen back to
Maoriland arose, these boys were a little
perturbed, but they were not long in deciding
that time would adjust the matter more satis-
factorily than any official assistance. And so
it has. The Germans were distinctly friendly
towards the Maorilanders, and the chief
paper of the occupied area pronounced them
“all gentlemen.” There was one deplorable
incident, when a Maorilander wrongfully
suspected of talking to a German girl was
killed, but the German authorities duly
handed over the suspected killer, and the
Court which established his guilt inflicted a
heavy penalty. The trial involved the bring-
ing of a witness all the way from Maoriland.
;JC ❖ # *
“W.1.U.” : The modern Greeks, like their
remote ancestors, frequently lavish a deal of
ceremony on their funerals. Some years
ago the body of a Broken Hill mineworker
who hail died of cancer was embalmed and
kept in state for eight days. A Greek priest
travelled over 200 miles to conduct the burial
service; a big band was engaged to head
the procession, and every Greek and near-
Greek in the community attended. At the
cemetery the lid of the coffin was taken oft
and held up with the inscription turned
towards the people, who gazed down on the
dead man ; carefully dressed, even to his col-
lar and tie. he presented a gruesome sight
under the blazing sunlight. After a large
bottle of salad oil had been spilled over the
corpse and a lot of chanting had been in-
dulged in, the funeral proceeded.
* * * *
“Wang”: The arrest of three men and
two women at Frankston (Vic.) the other
day was the culmination of a long police
chase after a new type of bushranger. The
party started from Melbourne with a
motor-car and lorry, both stolen, and trav-
elled along the Prince’s Highway to Bruthen,
robbing stores and shops at intervals. At
this point they branched off into the little-
known region at the headwaters of the
Dargo River. They were next heard of at
Bright, having crossed the Australian Alps.
When the chase grew hot they doubled back
into the mountains. Two mounted police-
men and a guide started in pursuit, and fol-
lowed the trail to a hut stocked with pro-
visions on the inhospitable Dargo high
plains. There were indications that the
fugitives had intended to winter there and
work an abandoned mine in the locality; but
evidently they had got wind of the pursuit
and had cleared out. The police turned
homewards, and had to fight their way
through a blizzard. The pursued made their
way back to the borders of civilisation, where
they fell into the hands of the Daw. It was
a jaunt that few men would care to take on.
A SEASONAL NIP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Old Top who reads the metric stuff,
And separates the grain from chaff,
I want to work a little bluff
To see if I can raise enough,
Now that the weather’s growing rough,
To turn against the winds the laugh
That’s on me now. So please you, note
I want to raise an overcoat! •
Full oft I’ve twanged the lyre before
In lesser need than presses now,
And registered a bull’s-eye score
In those hilarious days of yore
When winds might blow, and rainstorms
pour,
Yet leave me with unruffled brow,
Days when I didn’t care a groat
About a paltry overcoat.
But youth must leave us all some day,
And you, old Gink, may not be young—
Or possibly I’d better say,
In diplomatic lingo’s bray.
That e’en though in Youth's bright array
You stand, the red of blood among,
You couldn’t see a brother pot .*
(An old-un) sans an overcoat.
Old Bean, who wi'nnowest the verse,
With flail of criticism keen,
From sheaves of doggerel, and worse
(A task, I know, to make one curse
And feel like ordering a hearse —
For would-be Tennysons, I mean),
I want to raise a one-pound note,
Deposit on an overcoat.
Old Toff, incline a friendly ear
Towards this wistful madrigal!
’Tis not composed to purchase" beer,
But now the cruel winter’s here
I fain would meet your good cashier,
To raise a certain wherewithal —
A crinkling twenty-shilling note
To spring against an overcoat.
Did Dig, you know what lot austere
Waits here upon the bardic band.
■°erhaps, in some dim yesteryear,
Ere yet your notes were full and clear,
You knew (as now I know) the fear
Of winter’s chill; so wave the wand
That makes a rhyme—a one-pound note
Deposit on an overcoat.
N.S.W.
HOMFREY BEALE.


“R. Volt”: Secretary Doclierty, of the
Vic. Alpine Club, has taken on an unusual
job, viz., the training of a select number
of telegraph-linesmen in the art and craft
of ski-ing. Hitherto the Postal Department
has been content to let Father Blizzard have
liis own way in the winter months on the
route between Bright and Omeo, but this
year an effort is to be made to keep the line
open.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide is beginning to doubt
the efficacy of the “word of honor” system
that seems to be adopted with all criminals
who have to be moved to the City Hospital
for treatment. All they have to do is to
stroll out, and the records show that many
of them do. One was never heard of again,
another was arrested on a fresh charge be-
fore his escape had been noticed, and the
whereabouts of a third was only disclosed
when he earned a five years’ sentence in
M.L. The latest case had nine days of free-
dom. He never left the city, and some of
the false trails which the police followed he
is thought to have laid .(by telephone) him-
self.
SHE WAS DOWN TO THE LAST LEAF ALREADY.
EVE: “Oh, come on in—I’m shivering.”
ADAM: “Yes, you must be careful, dear — it’s autumn.”
“Morita”: During the Somme winter our
Aid Post near Flers was the nightly gather-
ing place of the sufferers from trench feet, who
hobbled that distance through the mud from
the front line but finished the trip out as
stretcher cases. Once their boots had been
removed for the doctor’s inspection they
couldn’t put them on again, and swathed their
feet in piles of cotton-wool. Squatting along
the sunken road on a particularly wet night,
a record crowd waited their turn for evacua-
tion. Their lurid comments on the weather
drew sympathy from the doc., w r ho, after
counting the pairs of white feet showing up
in the darkness, unearthed a jar of rum and
proceeded to hand out revivers by the light
of a torch. He was well over his original
counting before he stopped for a breather,
but the applicants for rum seemed as
numerous as ever. The spirit had given out
before the medico noticed that a big roll of
his cotton-wool was missing. Further en-
lightment came when he discovered about
half his beneficiaries dumping their wool and
bandages, and loading up with stakes and
barb-wire for the front line. The fatigue
had dropped into the sunken road for a
spell just as the doc. produced the rum-jar,
and in the darkness had found no difficulty
in raiding the Aid Post for the material that
had transformed them into trench-feet cases.
* * * *
“T. O. Cabil”: The most considerate sui-
cide in my experience was a man who pro-
pelled himself westward in Camooweal (Q.)
30 years ago. He not only left a letter for
the local police-sergeant enclosing £5 for his
burial expenses, but requested the officer
to return the lethal revolver to a Lawn Ilills
resident from whom he had borrowed it
three weeks before. He shot himself in bed
at the hotel after thoughtfully spreading two
basils over the pillow and bed to prevent the
blood from ruining them. He was a
thoroughly good fellow, who never touched
drink, and a bit of an artist; a couple of
his sketches had appeared in The Bulletin
a month or two before the tragedy.
* * * *
“X.D.” : A curiosity in divorce was a Mel-
bourne case wherein an estate-agent sought
a decree on the ground of his wife’s miscon-
duct with a baker. According to a witness,
the baker called on his inamorata almost
every day with a basket of bread, a bottle
of ale nestling amongst the loaves. The pair
invariably consumed the ale. The baker’s
name was Swigg.
* * * *
“C.” : Robert Mitchell, who recently retired
from the Federal Parliamentary staff, was
on duty in the Victorian Assembly on the
historic night the mace disappeared, and was
in the thick of the subsequent inquiry. He
always maintained that the mace was stolen
by people who thought it was a genuine
silver article. He scouted the story that
the bauble was purloined by certain royster-
ing members, taken to a famous plea-
sure house of the period, and there used as
the centre-piece in a mock parliament, with
a gay lady as Speaker. Anyhow the mystery
was never cleared up. The present mace
which does duty at Canberra was used for
the first -Parliament in Victoria, at old St.
Patrick’s Hall in Bourke-street. It was bor-
rowed when the Commonwealth Parliament
came into being, and has never been returned.
* * * *
“Shop” : Mention of the ill-feeling between
the Walloons and Flemings in Belgium (B.
12/6/’29) recalls the vast difference in the
attitudes of the two races towards us in war
days. From the French frontier near Bail-
lcul to the sea the Flemings made our troops
pay dearly for everything; at some of the
billets they would even padlock the pump-
handles, though their water supply could have
served an army. Very different was our
reception by the Walloons around Charleroi
after the Armistice. When we marched into
our final billet, a bleak chateau stripped of
every vestige of furniture during German
occupation, the villagers mustered at the
gates to suggest that the unit should be split
up amongst them for more comfortable quar-
ters. Thus for two months we lived as Bel-
gian civilians, sleeping between the sheets,
parking around the roaring grates at night,
dining in state, and promenading with the
family to church on Sundays for appearance
sake. When we left for home the Walloons
lined the road, weeping their hardest, from
tiny toddlers to great-grandparents,
* * * *
“Avon”: Maoriland is at times a little
f f P h amnions At n Svdnev
unfortunate m its champions. At a Sydney
dinner the other night a Fernlander arose
to extol his native land to fellow-Fern-
landers, and mentioned as its most famous
men George Grey, Dick Seddon, Alfred
Hill, Bob Fitzsimmons and the Ali Blacks,
The first three were importations—Grey an
English aristocrat who had almost as big
a share in Australian as in M.L. colonisa-
tion; Seddon, the son of a Lancashire peda-
gogue, lured south by the Vic. goldfields;
Hill, born in Melbourne. As to Fitzsim-
mons, there is a Maoriland legend to the
effect that he w-as born in Timaru and fought
his first battles there, but English and Ameri-
can biographers say he was born in Corn-
wall. However, one foot of the five was
planted down safely—the All Blacks; all the
teams of them—were reared on the premises.
* * * *
“Adelaide” : The City Council of Adelaide
has made itself amazingly unpopular by
pressing on with the alteration of lawns and
gardens on North-terrace. There is strong
opposition by an influential citizens’ com-
mittee, which fears in particular that a lot
of well-grown elms will go out. The. Council
—although there is a strong minority even
NO FRIEND OF ETHEL’S, APPARENTLY.
DADDY : “I see Jean Fitzwool is going to marry Simps, that struggling young, lawyer."
ETHEL: “Jean Fitzwool? No wonder he’s struggling. I hope he gets away."
here—says that all will be lovely in the end,
and presses right on with the work. 1 lie
general public admits that the Council may
be right, but asks why it can’t be more
explicit and courteous. A further proposal
to spend money on rebuilding the Town Hail
has driven the opposition to the wild. sug-
gestion that the Council shall be abolished
and replaced by a Civic Commission, as m
a crisis of about SO years hack.
* * * *
“Sucre"’: A “no savee” Chinaman was
ingeniously trapped in the Cairns Police
Court the other week. As the official inter-
preter was ill John shook his head blankly
at every question. Suddenly the prosecuting
sergeant stopped asking questions and went
off on a new tack. “Your Worship, he de-
clared impressively, “the prisoner was walk-
ing arm in arm with a loose woman—both
were drunk and swearing, and the prisoner
tried to hit me with a bottle.” John came
at the bait like a hungry shark. Your
Worship,” he cut in indignantly in excellent
English, “I admit being drunk and noisy, but
I had no loose woman with me —the lady was
my wife.” The P.M. made it 40 shillings.
* * * *
“Maunga” : A friend of mine, now holding
down a good job, struck Sydney years ago
when times were very hard and found him-
self up against it. Pic managed to victual
himself for a week, however, on
his last sixpence, and the Domain
provided free sleeping quarters.
His plan was to walk into a pub
where counter-lunch was spread
and buy a packet of cigarettes.
Then he’d deal with the lunch judi-
ciously, drift out and sell the
smokes for what he gave for them.
He still tells the tale occasionally
with what Harry Lauder calls “a
quiet sadness.”
* * *
“Clerk” : Victorian rail engineers
put through a remarkable bridge-
shifting job when they dragged the
old bridge over Racecourse-road
(Flemington) out of position and
pushed a ready-made 360-ton struc-
ture, complete with rails, track and
spans, into the gap. The new
bridge was built beside the old one
and took nine months to construct.
It was shifted the necessary 60ft.
at a rate of one foot every 80
working seconds; the change-over
being made on a Sunday there was.
only a very slight of traffic.
The new bridge was built in order that the
standards which supported the 45-year-old
bridge might be removed and the roadway
cleared for the heavy traffic to and from
racecourse and showgrounds.
* * * *
“Lucifer” : A nurse at the Brisbane Hos-
pital told me that they always expect a sharp
increase in minor casualties when a section
of the R.A.N. arrives, and a recent visit
was no exception. The cause of most of
the fights she summed up in the remark of
a landsman who was being treated for a
broken nose: “The flamin’ cow pinched me
shiela three nights runnin’!”
* * * *
“Gouger”: Touching these war medals.
Some months after the evacuation of
Gallipoli our 0-C. was notified from
GHQ. that a limited number of medals
were available for each regiment, and
was asked to send in a list of men
who deserved them. The O.C. (General
L C. Wilson, then in command of the sth
Light Horse) replied that he wanted none,
for the reason that every one of his men
had earned a medal. I have often thought
that his answer aptly applied to the whole
army on Gallipoli, and for that matter m
some other theatres of war as well. I’m not
a medallist myself, though I admit to having
been recommended on more than one occa-
sion, which, perhaps, impressed on me how
hard it was to land the trinket that meant
so much. Most of our O.C.’s disliked re-
commending a medal unless one of the numer-
ous deeds of heroism that might well have
earned one had been brought to the notice
of G.H.Q. by some Imperial officer of
high rank, or possibly a French “brass-
hat” who happened to have personally seen
it. That was how most of our medals came
to be granted, and even those recommenda-
tions did not always hit the bull’s-eye.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide has remade the dam
that holds hack the winter flow in its little
river, and makes a Torrens Lake for rowing
and swimming through the summer. It was
built in E. T. Smith’s time, nearly half a
century back, with sluices that somehow
encouraged the deposit of silt and the shal-
lowing of the lake; the new structure is to
avoid all that. An idea of the moment is
to make another dam a mile or so further
down the Torrens that will hide the present
ugly bed and hanks, and hack the water up
as far as the upper catchment.
v;: H*
“Cald”: An outsider put up the fastest
time in the windjammers’ race home with
wheat from Australia this year. The four-
masted barque Archibald Russell, 2354 tons,
sailed from Melbourne to Cork in 94 days.
Thus she easily beat the times made by ihe
Herzogin Cecilie, the winner for the past two
years. This year the Cecilie took 104 days,
and the Beatrice 107. The record for vessels
of similar rig is 88 days.
* *
“Trallwm”: Conducting a residential in
our big cities is an enterprise full of chances,
despite the almost invariable rule of demand-
ing a week’s rent in advance. There had
been a great silence for days from the
couple’s suite, so Mrs. Boardinghouse, fear-
ful that a tragedy might be staining her
second-floor front carpet, used her master-
key to investigate. She found a pawnticket
conspicuously placed in the centre of the
table and every vestige of portable furnish-
ings (linen, cutlery and the like) gone! The
levanters were obviously days away, so, as
the value of goods removed was about £8
and the price of redemption less than £2,
the lady made the best of a bad job, paid
Ahasuerus and Co. and reinstated the origi-
nal furnishings. Despite their knavery, the
pair showed a touch of thoughtfulness in
leaving the ticket.
* * * *
“Pawang”: As soon as you get a few
miles out of Melbourne you enter the found-
ling-home belt. In my district every second
home has one to four orphan boys or those
victims of society whose first appearance in
history is contained in a newspaper mention
that yet another infant has been found on a
doorstep. The official institutions of Vic-
toria have never been able to catch up with
the rising tide of illegitimacy, so outside
assistance is welcomed. The custodian of a
boy draws 15s. a week, which is regarded
as a valuable addition to Strawberry’s out-
put by many a small cocky. Also, the young-
ster helps about the house on Saturdays and
Sundays. Of course the boarding involves re-
sponsibilities, too, but I believe that these
are generally well discharged. One of my
neighbors harbored a boy for four years. He
was in desperate mood when he arrived, but
responded immediately to home influences.
When he reached 15 his master assisted him
to go on the Mallee. He is doing well, and
has never failed yet to pay an annual visit
to his benefactor.
# * * *
“ J.C.M.”: A British general of quite
imposing tonnage came to inspect the camp
at Yatesbury, Wilts., where, in 1917, we
were training pilots and mechanics for ser-
vice in France. Everyone had to drop his
particular job in preparation for the visit,
and for three solid days we polished and
swept and scrubbed. At last the fateful day
arrived, and we emptied the kiwi tins in a
last desperate effort to convince the Great
Man that this was the way we always looked
when we were repairing aeroplanes. When
he finally arrived, hours overdue, he con-
tented himself with walking down the centre
of the carefully-swept road. He didn’t enter
a single workshop or hangar, and was only
heard to make one remark. “The man who
put an aerodrome* in a hole like this ought
to be made to live in it for the rest of his
life,” he told our commanding officer very
deliberately and impressively. Then he faded
away, and we took off our glad-rags and
resumed the old job of growling at each
other.
A WINTER RHYME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Snow is falling at Nimmitabel.”
Now winter is on us, the season
When the shepherd of Shakspeare his tale
For some unaccountable reason
Blew —his nose? Not a bit, ’twas his nail.
Maid Marian’s jib got the blowing
Till its redness was wont to repel.
A prelude, no more, the foregoing
To the realisation it’s snowing
At Nimmitabel.
Can we laugh in these climes at the rigors
They suffered protestingly from,
The sun-raised and shivering Diggers
On Salisbury Plain and the Somme.
Mayhap, but I’ll bet on Monaro
Gauze singlets have gotten a spell
And the wind has the wliish of an arrow
As it cuts through the ribs to the marrow
At Nimmitabel.
Comes winter, amain and a-hurry;
The glory of beaches it mars;
In kitchens is clamor for curry
And a run upon rum in the bars.
When couples in fur and in feather,
In skirts and in rammies as well,
Draw cosily closer together,
It ought to be Cupid’s own weather
At Nimmitabel.
Comes winter, when even in Sydney
Least epicurean of men
Take chillies to devil the kidney
And* soup with a dash of cayenne;
When bones that are elderly tingle
For a fire—and when miners rebel
And down go the picks with a jingle.
Yet I’ll lay there are logs in the ingle
At Nimmitabel.
Now the dosser, his slumbers imperilled
In the Dom. by the southerly’s bite,
Grips closer the folds of his Herald
As he curses the nip of the night.
Ah, brother, though chilly ’tis blowing,
Here’s something your grumbling should
quell
And set you with gratitude glowing
For your luck. Just remember it’s snowing
At Nimmitabel.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


g
<m* -
'
■
:
te
n
'
■
Ml Mffi
m
■;■
3 : '
;^i:
ra
* i i
8 :' :
■Q
rafc-^i
' V.
■■■■■■l
\ . .~:-'i
Hi*
a
'it?.-. .
!5
'
■HfIMHHN
H
mmMmmgMm
■fill
■■■§
181
.
GUARANTEED MADE BY
EASTMAN KODAK C°.Y
Important Announcement!
FREE TO SMOKERS
of
“ Vice Regal” Cigarettes,
“Three Castles” Cigarettes,
“ Capstan ” (Oval) Cigarettes,
“Player’s” Cigarettes,
“Country Life” Cigarettes,
15’s Packets and 50’s and 100’s Flat Tins
15’s Packets and 50’s and 100’s Flat Tins
25’s, 50’s and lOQ’s Flat Tins
18’s Packets
15’s and 50’s Tins
A No. 2 Cartridge Hawk-Eye Model “C”
CAMERA
(Guaranteed made by the Kodak Company)
This Camera is finished in handsome black leatherette, fitted with view finder, is daylight loading, and
takes excellent pictures x inches. TO OBTAIN THE CAMERA colled the Coupons now
enclosed in any of the above well-known brands of Cigarettes, and when you have colleded 100, write
your name and address plainly on a piece of paper and enclose with Coupons and bring or forward to
W. D. & H. O. WILLS (Australia) LTD.
KENT & BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
411-423 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Or Cnr. MURRAY & MILLIGAN STS., PERTH.
\
who in return will present' you with the Camera as advertised.
COUPONS NOT REDEEMABLE AFTER 30th JUNE, 1930.
START COLLECTING NOW!
and forward as soon as you have the requisite number.


If Coming to Sydney for
Polo Week or Sheep Shou)
STAY AT
USHER’S
tryryrty
Centrally located,
Usher’s has estab-
lished a reputa-
tion for the ex-
clusive quality of
its cuisine and the
superior quality of
its service.
Every convenience—honest comfort.
Book your accommodation now.
Inclusive Termc or Special Tariff.
USHER’S HOTEL
Opp. Theatre Royal, Sydney.
’Phone 86511 (10 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address: “Usherotel, Sydney.”
Fx & R” SPOONS and FORKS
!
Will wear like
silver for 40 gears
The excellent quality of “Fx & R” spoons and
foi'ks ensures the most satisfactory wear.
They are extra heavily silver-plated on hard
white nickel bases, which means that they
are practically heavy sheaths of silver cover-
ing the hard white base. They will engrave
like solid silver, and although of such ex-
cellent quality are offered at bedrock prices.
OLD ENGLISH PATTERN.
Table spoons and forks . . 30/- half-doz.
Dessert spoons and forks . 24/- ~
Soup spoons . . 30/- ~
Tea spoons 12/- „
FAIRFAX
& ROBERTS,
! Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,”
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
LTD.
PLAIN FIGURES.
CASH ONLY.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
GLOBE
MEAT EXTRACT
GLOBE BRAND
As expected, Melbourne Uni. Council lias
selected Dr. Robert Marshall Allan to be its
first Professor of Obstetrics. A native of
Bananaland, he graduated in medicine at
Edinburgh, and studied and worked in mid-
wifery in Dublin and on the Continent. Dur-
ing the Big Disturbance he served first with
the English Army Med. Corps and then with
the A.1.F., and for 10 years has been a
Melbourne specialist. Since 1925 he has
been the Uni.’s director of obstetrical re-
search, a position made possible by the gen-
erosity of the Edward Wilson (Argus)
Trust. He is still only 43.
HAROLD PARSONS, Adelaide’s pictur-
esque ’cellist. He has been a Conserva-
torium teacher for many years.
Lou Brown, now leading the quiet life
near Manly (N.S.W.), is used to quite an-
other style of village. A Papuan magis-
trate for many years, he gained an extra-
ordinarily varied knowledge of the dark
country as relieving magistrate; he has
patrolled most of the mapped divisions of
Papua and studied the queer minds of its
people. His wife is Dr. Alys Brown, The
Bulletin writer of good Papuan stories.
She can carpenter nearly as well as she can
write: Papua has put it on record that she
can make a bungalow out of an empty case
and a kerosene-tin.
M. M. Phillips, the Master of Equity in
Melbourne and brother of Dr. Marion P.,
first Australian woman to get a seat in the
House of Commons, controls one of the
largest trustee businesses in Victoria. On
behalf of the State’s insane he administers
over 2000 estates.
It was with difficulty that cx-Premier
McCormack of Queensland struggled through
the election campaign. Throat trouble is the
primary cause of his resignation of the
leadership of his party, and his present trip
is at the instigation of a local specialist who
strongly advised him to take his trouble to
Harley-street. Whether he will do so depends
upon the progress he makes during the next
few weeks.
If Professor Gilbert Murray does go to
Washington the President and the British
Ambassador will be able to swap reminis-
cences of Australia. Murray’s father was an
ex-President of the N.S.W. Leg. Council;
Hoover was a mining engineer on Bewick-
Moreing’s Australian staff.
Old Sydney Scots’ College boys are
mourning for the first principal, Rev. A. A.
Aspinall, M.A., who has died in his 83rd
year. Although born in England he had
his schooling and university training in Syd-
ney; his first parish had a radius of more
than 100 miles from its eentre in Forbes.
His four sons, all doctors, served in the
war, where one of them was killed.
The Ocean-road to Lome (Vic.) will be
a permanent memorial to Digger Ted Morley,
M.L.A. for Barwon and Honorary Minister
in the McPherson Cabinet, who went out
the other day a victim to heart trouble. But
for him the highway would never have been
completed, and the toll system he established
helps to keep it going. Morley was a
breezy fellow, who got his military training
in the Garrison Artillery at Queenscliff.
Malmsbury, which gave him birth, supplied
him with a grave.
The Darling family, which gave to Adel-
aide ’Varsity its medical building, has now
put down another £lO,OOO for laboratories at
the Waite Institute, run by the University.
The gift is for the special purpose of soil
research, the Commonwealth department in
charge of that subject having promised to
make Adelaide its headquarters if the neces-
sary accommodation is found. The gift is
made by Norman Darling, Broken Hill Prop.’s
chairman of directors, on behalf of the family
of John Darling, the millionaire miller who
long ago was a power in S.A. politics at the
same time that brother Joe was Australia’s
cricket captain.
A man with a great eye for a horse and
the unusual record of having been a jockey
as well as a parson was the Rev. John
Penman, who has died at Ilomebush (Syd-
ney), aged 81. An uncle took him droving
when he was a youngster, and in Queensland
he had several good wins. In his old age
he said proudly that he had never had to
ride inferior horseflesh ; well-to-do squatters
saw to it that he was well supplied. He
officiated as judge at many shows.
Melbourne geologist S. R. Mitchell has a
secret vice, and it is a passion for ethnology.
He is one of the committee which is working
lmid to make the forthcoming exhibition of
aboriginal art an event of historical import-
ance. When at White Cliffs (N.S.W.)
recently he was shown some cylindro-conical
stones which bore evidence of having been
fashioned by human agency, and he asked
a local native about them. “H’uh,” said this
civilised product, “those things no good.
They made by blackfella.”
Dead in Adelaide, H l . C. E. Muecke, who
spent 80 of his 86 years in Australia.
Forgotten lately, he was a great commercial
man in his day, but war-time bitterness
put an end to his usefulness. Before that
he was head of a shipping firm he founded,
M.L.C. for some years, German Consul for
over 30, chairman of the B. H. Proprietary
and a director of the Bank of Adelaide. He
leaves a large family, one of whom, a doctor
now in London, married contralto Ada
Crossley.
Last week Dr. C. B. Levick, receiving a
wireless call, shot across the North Sea from
London by ’plane to attend another Aus-
tralian who had fallen ill in Stockholm—a
sign of what the future has in store, when
a man who has tripped to the other side of
the globe may regard his medical man as
still within call for an emergency. Levick,
who passed brilliantly at the Sydney Uni.
in 1920 —Hunter’s year—has already made
a name in England. He is practising in
Wimpole-street.
The sudden death of Ronald McDonald,
headteacher of Moreland State school (Vic.),
caused a wave of grief in the State’s public
service. He was the representative of the
whole service on the Superannuation Board
and of the teachers on the committee of clas-
sifiers for primary schools. By sheer merit
McDonald rose to the front rank of teachers.
His schools invariably got the maximum
marks. When quite a junior he placed Tongio
West school, Gippsland, on a high plane by
training his pupils to mop up scholarships.
His personality was as big a factor as his
undoubted educational attainments. Heart
trouble was the cause of the quick outgoing.
He was only 58.
Eighty this month, T. N. Stephens, who
lias given his life to Customs work, first
for South Aus., then for the Commonwealth.
He was the first Federal Collector, retiring
in 1914. His hobbies are Australian timbers
(he has a unique collection) and croquet.
James Caddy, who died at 85, after
22 years of placid retirement in Sydney, was
a wreck after the land boom broke in the
early ’nineties. Picking up a house agency
at Bondi Junction, just as the district
started to grow, he introduced the plan of
guaranteeing a lodger for a prospective ten-
ant who looked askance at a cottage that
was too large—or the rent that was asked
for it.
Squadron-Leader Smart has just completed
a couple of record flights in two of the Air
Force’s new Wapitis. One was a flight from
Laverton to Richmond (N.S.W.), 525 miles,
in 3£hrs. The Wapitis have a range of 700
miles and, when all out, can touch 200 m.p.h.;
and there are 28 on order.
One of the odd veterans of “the Strait”
is old Frank Rocheford, of Woodlark Island.
In his young days he was a Queensland
squatter until drought ruined him; then,
sick of the struggles, he lit out for the
islands and
peace. He found
it, and his
Papuan friends
swear that he
has not been
out of pyjamas
for 30 years. A
stickler for the
conventions,
nevertheless, he
hangs on to his
monocle, and
wears it tied
with a shoelace
t o a n enor-
mously broad
hat with corks
floating around
it.
ARTHUR G.
HARSTON,
the new
president of
the Royal
Automobile
Club, Vic.
The cables have mentioned a Canadian
soldier who has had 44 operations ; but R. E.
Lording, an original of the 30tli Batt., A.I.F.
—his regimental number was 81 —wounded
at Fromelles in July, 1916, has had 52
operations as the result of three lots of
shrapnel injuries received in one day. The
first difficulties faced were over the extraction
of shrapnel bullets from his spine. An arm
went at the 49tli operation after many
attempts to save it. The mutilated Digger,
who enlisted as a mere boy and is now only
30, still keeps a grin going.
David Featherby has answered the last
roll-call at Ipswich (Q.), aged 93. He was
a link with Lucknow. Already a soldier
when the Indian Mutiny broke out, he joined
the 79th Cameron Highlanders. Landing at
Calcutta in August, 1857, the troops pro-
ceeded to Cawnpore by bullock carts, taking
11 days. Then, under Sir Colin Campbell,
they marched to Lucknow, and captured the
city. Featherby came to Australia in 1866
with his wife and settled in Queensland; Mrs.
Featherby died at 86, her husband remained
active till he fell and broke his thigh a few
weeks ago. When the Duke of York visited
Ipswich the old warrior was presented, and
11.R.H. arranged for him to go with the
Royal party to Canberra.
Surrounded by grandparents whom he had
taught during his 40 years’ service as head-
master of the Staghorn State-school (Vic.).
Hcdley Colwell laid down his chalk and
duster. John Saxton, assistant-chief inspec-
tor, unveiled a fine portrait of the veteran,
and spoke of the sorrow of the department in
losing such a fine teacher, expert organiser
and model citizen. Chief-engineer Colwell,
of the Vie. railways, was plainly proud of his
father.
Striking miners in N.S.W. have made a
present of a block of very acceptable trade
to the coalfield of Howard, near Maryborough
(Q.). This field, township and railway sta-
tion on the Great Northern line take their
name from William Howard, still living, an
octogenarian and blind, in Bundaberg. The
old man in his young days was the first
grazier in this district of the Burnett, and
discoverer of the coalfield. The fourth gen-
eration of Howards is living round about.
Surgeon George Syme left £92,343 in Vic.,
with a bit more in other States. His widow
has a life interest in the lot.
Father George O’Neill, M.A., Emeritus
Professor of the National University, Ire-
land, and Professor at Corpus Christi (Vic.),
has rescued the memory of that remarkable
man, Father Julian E. Tenison Woods, who
died 40 years ago and is buried at Waverley
(N.S.W.). A scientist in two or three depart-
ments, explorer, author, organiser of religious
activities and zealous missionary, Father
Woods never received adequate recognition,
and Father O’Neill is far too modest in de-
scribing himself as a passer-by who came to
erect' a biographical memorial. Many nights
and days must have been devoted to building
it.
The Bulletin’s old friend George Meudell
has been making Bendigo’s mouth water;
in the local Advertiser he has been re-
calling his boyhood’s days on the old gold-
field when it urns a goldfield. His father
was gold-buyer to the Bank of Victoria,
and the first scent that reached young
George’s nostrils —from the outer world,
at any rate —came from the works of a soap-
and candle-maker alongside the bank. So fear-
ful was mamma of the effect on the infant’s
health that pa was instigated to whip up
his fellow-bankers (they were all a
cluster) to get the soap works shifted. The
owner agreed to be dispossessed for £lOOO.
With the cash he bought into a mine—and
made £30,000 in six months. That was the
start of George Lansell, Bendigo’s Quartz
King. And remembering what George Lan-
sell did for Bendigo, it seems a fair thing
to build a statue of the other George—
the infant whose fond mother’s anxiety led
to the exchange of a soap vat for a gold-
mine.
The oldest living native of the Darling
Downs (Q.) is Harry Bracker, who was
born at Rosenthal, July, 1544, four years
after Pat Leslie, the first Darling Downs
squatter, arrived there and settled at Tool-
hurra. The first white man born on the
Downs was Donald Mclnnes, at Glengallan,
in January, 1843. He died in 1911. The
Downs to-day is, a rich and populous area,
but in Bracker’s youth the squatter took as
much of it as he liked for a £lO license-fee,
the only boundaries being natural features.
Pulling up on a rise, and with a sweep of
his arm that embraced all within the wide-
encircling horizon, he said, “This is my
land.” And it was.
“Lex”: W. A. Jowitt, Iv.C., who has gone
Labor and has been named A.-G., is the
handsomest man at the London Bar. He has
been described as “looking like, a poet who
decided to reject the Muse for Law.” B'e
shares the leadership of the King’s Bench
Division with Norman Birkett and Stuart
Bevan, and, since Simon retired and Douglas
Ilogg became Lord Chancellor, has been
making over £20,000 a year. His career is
a reversal of that of his great friend Sir
Patrick Hastings, who began as a militant
Laborite, was A.-G. in the first MacDonald
Government and turned Liberal after the
general strike.
The captain of the Emden, the German
cruiser which called at Thursday Island
the other day, is Lothar von Arnauld
de la Periere, descendant of a French soldier
who had a row with the Due de Bourbon in
the century before last, and transferred his
services to Frederick the Great. Periere,
who is known in Teutonic naval circles as
Von Arnauld, did more havoc among the
shipping of the Allies in the. Great War
than any other U-boat commander, and yet
carried away with him a reputation for
humanity. After bailing up a merchant-
man, he always gave it a chance to haul down
its flag. He then boarded it, took its papers,
waited till the crew were in the boats, and
sank the vessel. Armed transports he tor-
pedoed without warning, as was his duty—■
the French ships Gallia and Provence, each
Justice ROBERT KENNEDY, lately
appointed to the Supreme Court of
Maoriland.
carrying about 3000 men, went that way—
but the business “did not make me feel
elated.” He refused rewards other than the
order “For Merit.”
Concerning a multitudinous family:—
A recent Bulletin par. about the Birks family of
New Australia might have mentioned the epic adven-
tures of Frank, still alive in Adelaide, who left New
Australia without a penny, got a job on the railway
at Asuncion, then worked his passage down to
Buenos Ayres as stoker of a river boat, next worked
a passage to England on a cattle boat- and finally an-
other to Australia as ship’s carpenter’s offsider—which
last he described as a gentleman’s job. Of the Birkses
who stuck to Old Australia Frank’s father (Perth
chemist, just dead, over 80) preached three sermons
in one Sunday a few weeks before he died; and
his uncle Walter founded a communistic settlement
at Murtho, near Renmark (S.A.). Of Walter’s three
sons, Laurie became head of the Hydro-electric De-
partment in M.L., and Melville (F.R.C.S., London)
medical superintendent of Broken Hill Hospital before
they died; and Dick is still principal of Roseworthy
Agricultural College (S.A.).
GREEN HILLS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The more the years that are borne away
By Time, the reaper and gleaner,
Fairer and fairer the valleys glow,
Stamped on the memory long ago,
Blither the brooks of boyhood flow
And the hills of youth grow greener.
Ever, the wider stretch the seas
Between the here and the yonder,
Sweeter the shape that the far fields take
In the tangled dream from which you wake
With a futile sigh and a fleeting ache
For the lost in a heart grown fonder.
The long white roads and the winding lanes,
The combes and the hedgerowed meadows,
The high bare down and the wooded glade,
Where young life pulsed amid shine or shade,
Again in the sun they shine, and fade
Away again in the shadows.
There’s a bluer sky than on Carcassonne,
There’s a spot with a call that’s keener;
Though they never were sung in a lilting
rhyme
Those little hills you were wont to. climb,
All earth away in space, and in time
The span of a life, are greener.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


WHAT IT’S COMING TO—A SERMON WITHOUT WORDS.
“The Rev. J. Hunter, of the Baptist Church, Bathurst (N.S.W.), denouncing miserly offertories and decreased church attendances, declared that the churches were ‘living
on their wits.’ ” —S. M. Herald, 11/6/29.
Poverty
Point
“.Caesar’s Ghost”: A showman who has
done the smalls of Eastern Australia for
years was interviewed on his return to Sydney
by a man interested in the Actors’ Benevo-
lent Fund, who had heard that the show-
man made a practice of holding periodical
benefit nights, the proceeds to go to poor
actors. “You used that money for your own
purposes,” he said accusingly. “No—for the
company,” replied the showman. “And if
you know any poorer actors than my crowd
you beat me—they’re the worst I know.”
“Theseus” : Reference to Ashton Jarry and
his roles (B. 12/6/’29) recalls that liis part-
ner in his best-known essays in vaudeville
was in private the wife of Capt. Shirley
Falke, the ex-Guardsman who, coming to
Australia after the war with a reputation as
an art-expert, did not please Melbourne
Herald's art critic J. S. Macdonald (now
director of Sydney National Gallery), and
as a result entered a suit for damages
against the paper. He won at first, but
could not stand the pressure of an appeal,
and his wife, a piquant brunette, went back
to the boards to help keep the home fires
burning. The Firm made the most of her
man’s temporary notability, and she and
Jarry figured in a Lonsdale-like sketch or
two briskly done, but the home fires set
neither the Yarra nor the Tank Stream
ablaze, and soon the Falkes left for other
parts.
“L. de R.” : Touching Melbourne musical
criticism. The other evening Harold Wil-
liams, of the Williams-Murdoeh combination,
was billed to open a concert by singing “Ich
Grolle Nicht.” One paper’s comment took
this form: “Most satisfying to the musician
were the lieder Tch Grolle Nicht’ and ‘The Erl
King.’ ” Another declared that “he endowed
Schubert’s Tch Grolle Nicht’ with all the
sardonic pathos so seldom given to it.” There
was nothing wrong with these well-balanced
comments —except that Williams did not sing
the song. He even informed the audience
that he would sing Schubert’s. “Serenade”
instead !
“Garrick”: Tom Moore, of Fullers, has
returned from the U.S.A. with a new play,
“Zeppelin,” and a scheme that appears bold
on the surface. With wife" Gladys Moncrieff
and Charles Roadnight, he proposes forming
a company which may be registered as the
Gladys Moncrieff Amusements, Ltd. The
first offering is dated for July 6 at Mel-
bourne’s Palace.
“Caisar’s Ghost”: Louis Bennison exhi-
bited a tendency to go off the handle when
in Australia, and the Firm finally cancelled
his contract in Melbourne. He started an
action, but when he went to America left it
in the hands of solicitors. He was parti-
cularly bitter when Leon Gordon was selected
as the lead in “Tea for Three,” after he
had played lead with Margaret Lawrence
at the opening of the season ; and it is pos-
sible that his mind dated the bad luck that
had dogged him in America to that discord
and led on to the murder of the actress.
Bennison, always theatric, left a note before
he suicided bearing the quotation “The sun-
set has a heart; look for us there.” It was
from the first piece he appeared in at Sydney
Royal.
“Fauteil”: It has not been disclosed
whether his early home training was respon-
sible for young H. Parsons winning Tivoli
artist Dora Maugham’s £5O for the best
words for a song on the theme “The Bad
Women of History Have Nothing on Me.”
Parsons is the son of a Melbourne suburban
clergyman, and his flair for song-writing was
unsuspected. He spends his daily existence
in the exciting atmosphere of the Herald
index-room.
“L.H.P.”: “Oliver Twist” on the boards
in Sydney recalls that Dickens twice pro-
posed to dramatise his novel —once for Fred
Yates and once for Macready. Oliver Twist
first appeared in print in 1837 in “Bentley’s
Miscellany,” and was illustrated by George
Cruikshank. It was immediately adapted
to the stage by numerous scissors-and-paste
dramatists, and versions appeared at the
Adelphi, Surrey, Olympic and other theatres.
Although frequently acted ever since, it has
not been invariably successful. Macready in
his diary records “the utter impracticability
of ‘Oliver Twist’ for any dramatic purpose.”
A good hit was made with a version at tlie
old London Queen’s in 1868, with Toole as
the Artful Dodger and Henrietta Hodson, the
aunt of the Australians George and Harry
Musgrove, as Oliver. In the same year
Walter Bentley, as Toby Crackit, and George
Anson, as Fagin, were seen in another version
at the Olympic. Australia recalls Nance
O’Neil as Nancy and Kingston as Fagin, also
D’Orsay Ogden as the Jew and his daughter
Nellie as Oliver. Dampier, Edmund Hollo-
way and the Bates couple all played ver-
sions here, but none set the Sydney box-office
on fire.
“Goldilocks”: “The ' Jazz Singer” has
broken the picture record put up in Sydney
by “The Ten Commandments”—43o show-
ings in a single theatre. The movie that
introduced the canned voice of A 1 Jolson had
537 screenings at the Lyceum. For weeks
queues a hundred yards or more long waited
for the opening of the morning sessions; I
have it from Peter Pagan, the house man-
ager, that some of them even breakfasted in
the queue.
“Hamfat”: A couple of years ago John
I). O’Hara made a last splash at the Mel-
bourne Athenaeum as a nice old country
parson. In the same production was Maggie
Moore. Now both are gone. John D., like-
able old chap, was remarkably successful
in “Lightnin’,” but playgoers felt that he
was a bit too much like Lightnin’ in every-
thing he did. He took to Australia so well
that he was content to spread over a long
period the weeks of the engagement the Firm
had undertaken to give him; then he went
back to America, but almost immediately
returned to live here. He was 69 when
he died last week in Melbourne.
“The Giggling Undertaker”: When Aus-
tralia’s old friend Robert Chisholm was
engaged in America recently to play the
leading male role in a new Drury-lane show,
“The Blue Moon,” an almost incredible
blunder was made. Chisholm travelled the
3000-odd miles to Old Drury, and there dis-
covered that he had been engaged on the
assumption that he was a tenor. But, of
course, this cousin of John Brownlee is a
baritone. So he was handed his return
ticket to the States and a solatium. Then,
to really make a job of the muddle, Howett
Worster was given the part, and he also is
a baritone. There are, incidentally, several
other Australians in the cast. Vera Pearce
assists Gene Gerrard in being funny; Mar-
gery Hicklin (now Mrs. Leon Heron) under-
studies the star, Evelyn Laye; and Alban
Whitehead, Melba’s protege from Footscray,
is a chorister and also an understudy.
“Cine Ma”: If 'Black Rock (Vic.) gives
the same reception to “Tiger Island,” an
Australian film to be released in Melbourne
shortly, that Geelong gave to John Brownlee,
the bayside resort should be nearly empty.
Most of the scenes were shot in and around
the little township.
“Lysander” : How little they know of Film-
dom who only Hollywood know! Movie-
column editors of British newspapers wax
almost lyrical about men and women whom
the average Australian film-lover has never
heard about, much less seen. Jameson
Thomas, Shayle Gardner (female) and
Lilian Hall-Davis, all English, are said
to be the equal of anyone in U.S.A.,
and Brigitte Helm, Mady Christians, Dita
Parlo and ITans Schettow, Germans, are
accorded even higher claims.
“Pedess”: Mention of interruptions of
, ~ * , _
®^ recalls an occasion at Taree
(N.S.W.) when Harrison Allen, who had
adjudicated in the elocutionary section of
the. eisteddfod and ivas generously assisting
in the concert which followed, held a packed
house with his rendering of “The Flight of
Little Em’ly,” an excerpt from “David Cop-
periield.” All went well until the words
“Em’ly! Em’ly! Oh where is my little
Em’ly?” rang out In hushed expectancy
audience waited. Then, Here she is .
ve £°t • shouted a galleryite whose
sense ,°*. dramatic humor outweighed his
appreciation.. Allen paused, reeled from Ins
of artistic perfection, attempted to
recover his grip of the audience, failed piti-
and retired. He confessed later that
the mental shock was as paralysing as a
physical blow.
“C.”: Poverty Poiuters may not swallow
“Hayband’s” story \ B. 29/5/’29) of the
musician who “had” the critics by faking his
programme, but this is genuine. W. B.
Mclnnes, when he made certain desired
alterations to. the picture of the Yorks’ open-
ing of Federal Parliament at Canberra two
years ago, used a piece of cardboard as a
palette. The work done, he said to Percy
Deane, of the Prime Minister’s department,
“They’ll tell you I’m only a portrait painter,
but look how easy it is to do a landscape.”
With a few flourishes of his brush he turned
the paint-daubed palette into a landscape of
sorts, and presented the result to Deane,
A few days later a friend who posed as au
art critic, and who dabbled a bit in color
himself. saw the thing and said, “That’s
gem j» informed the name of the artist,
he exclaimed rapturously, “I knew it—a per-
feet gem!” The joke of it was that the
“picture” was at the moment upside down,
..... .
’ Fine Ma”: Chief See. Argyle is expen-
encing difficulty in enforcing the Australian
film quota in Victorian theatres, and as a
last resource is asking audiences to assist
bim. Managements habitually relegate the
Quota pictures to the end of a long Yankee
programme, and most of the spectators file out
when they see them coming. One theatre has
even gone the length of throwing on an
announcement that it is obliged to show the
local celluloid, insinuating that it does so
with reluctance, and its patrons apparently
agree with it.
“Craiser”: Since the Firm had its unplea-
sant experience with Cullud Brother some
lit:t l e time a S° there has been a vague sort
°. f understanding that wholesale importa-
t 1 ( °t the kind would be restricted m the
future. However, the Taits have decided that
I*- to try again, find the Kentucky
Singers will open at the Auditorium
011 Ju W I]L - Also Show Boat will be
staged in Melbourne in August. The chorus
comprises 96 persons, and 48 are expected
t 0 be the genuine tinted article,
“C.R.”: The Firm has secured the Aus-
tralian rights of “Journey’s End,” the war
play Red rage writers have been arguing
about. The usual “specially selected” cast
is coming with it.
LIFE AND THE MOVIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Bill Hart, the Wild West cowboy screen star,
while making the first Wild West talkie, collapsed
in the studio. He is suffering from influenza.”
He leapt upon his reeking-horse
And hurtled through the rocky canyons,
His fine intent to spring, of course,
The trap set for his brave companions;
Nor soaring peak nor swollen flood
Could halt him or from duty cozen,
And redskins, weltering in blood,
He left behind him by the dozen.
It took, when mountains couldn’t whip him,
A microscopic germ to trip him.
Swift death he dealt with either hand,
His deadly guns for ever blazing;
Alone he faced the blackguard band
Of rustlers, foully set on razing
The rancher’s house and all therein,
And kidnapping his lovely daughter.
But Bill! Ah, one just knows he’ll win
The day, through seven reels of slaughter.
But, though “he-men” with wonder fill us,
They cut no ice with a bacillus.
A frank epitome of life,
My masters, may I dare to mention;
We dream that an heroic strife
Some godlike and sublime dissension,
Our mortal moving-picture fi115....
And then comes ’flu (an allegory—
It may be twins or butcher’s bills),
And plays the mischief with our story.
What knights we’d be if only wizards
Would turn to dragons true —our lizards!
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


incomparable
cfuahly ,entirel\/
ibe proJuci of
(draftsmen.
an
■
■
■
II CJasl
.osiery oy
asnione
u
VS
2
£2


tryryrty
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD.
Total Assets exceed . £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:-
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
(2) In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost evoiy contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
T> TO TT AT? OIfTT U C Annun 1 tlonnivAi
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Desert Song”
Criterion • Applesauce
K(m[| “This Year of Grace”
Palace'.'.'.'.'.'.'.' “Dracula”
Tivoli Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s • • • • •••.••* 7 : • Tavtova
id oval “The Five-o clock Girl”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
“Whoopee,” at Sydney Empire, is another
musical comedy made in accordance with
the well-known recipe of a gentleman out
of the country. Like the delightful play
“Applesauce,” at the Criterion, its title,
which to a lesser extent is its basis, is pecu-
liarly United States —to “make whoopee” is
to make love, more or less completely.
In common with all of its kind, the piece
utterly defies Serious criticism. It is a
whirl of assorted nonsense set to music. The
only difference there can be between one
musicomedy and another is in the degrees
of the whirl. Here it is as bewildering as a
catherine-wheel, and rather like one. There
is an abundance of vivid color, gaiety,
sparkle, variety; and when it is over you
can, as usual, take only a small charred disc
of plot from the centre. The material of
the disc never varies; there are one girl, and
two lovers, and influences, mostly parental,
urging her to the solid, unromantic choice;
and, of course, there is her making of the right
choice. A difference between this plot in
musicomedy and in the melodrama from
which it is lifted is that the odd-man-out is
not necessarily a villain; quite often, as in
“Whoopee,” he is a decent chap who learns
at the appropriate moment that he doesn’t
love the girl after all—that another maid
whom he knew earlier or who lias loomed
up since is his affinity. The sort of audience
that likes the revenge motive has to be. con-
tent here with seeing the interfering influ-
ences baulked and discomfited.
Theme, when there is any, varies just as
slightly. In this it is the East-West article
—one of the lovers is part-Indian; or is
until, near the end, the stigma of the half-
caste is lifted per medium of the old. old
story upon which Pharaoh’s daughter risked
her reputation. Incidentally, this employ-
ment of an apparently part-Indian heroic
character is interesting away from its set-
ting. It is a striking proof of the power of
BERTHA RICCARDO, acting finely in “Dracula” at Sydney
Palace.
romantic literature. The Red Indian has
been exalted by the leverage of 10,000 pens
into a figure of Romance as legitimate as
Sir Galahad —more so, because Sir G. seems
now to have a trifle too much of the woman
in him for heroic purposes. So high has the
Indian been lifted that he has ceased to
l)e human, and lias become godlike—just
as the New Zealanders, happily, are making
their Maori. What a different spirit is
abroad in Australia, where the best of the
general feeling towards the abo. is one of
good-natured tolerance! In spite of all
that has been done by scientific and other
sympathetic observers, the poor old abo. in
literature or the drama appears destined to
be a comic character, and cross breeds from
him to be tragic, usually villainously so.
It would be suicidal for a writer to use a
half-caste aboriginal man in a heroic part;
whereas with this “Indian” it is really un-
necessary to cleanse his blood. Ho holds
sympathy from the beginning; a half-caste
abo. would be a risky experiment, even if
it was broadly hinted from the start that
he would be lilywhite ere the end.
Of “Whoopee” as a stage presentation
little needs to be said. It is a bright, leggy
show, for which the producers can be cen-
sured over nothing except their apparently
incurable weakness of giving ‘the audience
too much for its money in the way of bril-
liant dress parades, ballet turns and such-
like embellishments. Some of the ballet
numbers bore, and prolong the show unduly,
but the dress parades make lavish displays
of color, easily the best of the kind in
Sydney. Charley Sylber brings a curious
mixture of subtlety and broadness to his
interpretation of the comedy leading role,
and he has a practically identical supporter
in Genevieve McCormack, a new American
lady who owns a pretty ensemble and an
attractive blonde personality, and has a voice
st» sweet in speaking parts that she ought
to contract herself never to sing. Another
newcomer, Beulah Berson, has none of Miss
McCormack’s vitality, and actually seems
nervous, but her singing can be heard with-
out tears. Paul Plunket gets pretty well all
the gloom possible into a “heavy” Indian
part, and Forest Yarnall, Leyland H'odgson
and Freddie Conyngham show out from a
host of others. Dancing, excellent in places,
is chiefly purveyed by Jane Sels; and the
scenery by Reg Robins is always a fitting
setting for the show.
“The Ship” of St. John Ervine, launched
by the Tributarians at Melbourne Queen’s
on Saturday, concerns John Thurlow, a
builder of luxury liners. His son Jack
loathes a career which turns the ocean into
a floating extension of Toorak and Upper
George-street—it elevates the machine above
the man. So he goes farming, though if he
had been a little more logical he would have
realised that if he omitted to use the latest
agricultural machinery he would soon cease
to be a farmer.
The father tries to bribe Jack’s partner, a
delightful Mercutio of an ex-soldier who, with
the assistance of the bottle and his front-line
experience, pr o-
duces much worldly
wisdom to compen-
sate for the son’s
tedious priggish-
ness. The attempt
fails, because Jack
somehow makes a
success of farming.
But the old man
falls ill on the eve
of the maiden voy-
age of his latest
floating palace, the
Magnificent, and,
as there has always
been a Thurlow
aboard on such
occasions, the son,
after another
struggle with his
soul, consents to
represent him. The
Roman bath, gym-
nasium, Moorish
smoking-room and
Renaissance saloon
enclosed in a thin
steel envelope hit
an iceberg and go
down together,
carrying most of
the passengers, in-
cluding Thurlow,
jun., with them.
Regarding himself
as the murderer of
a son and a pos-
sible future head of
the firm, Thurlow,
sen., endeavors to
anticipate nature
and remove himself
from the troubled
scene, but is de-
terred by Grand-
ma Thurlow (a
dear old bundle of
tolerance and com-
passion faithfully
portrayed by Lucy Ahon), who informs
him that it is his duty to carry on the busi-
ness because he is about to be a grand-
father. If there is any moral, it is that
the machine has triumphed.
Ervine belongs to the post-war school of
intellectuals who grizzle vaguely about Life,
Fate, the mechanisation of humanity and
other distressing symptoms of the Chevrolet
age without having any clear idea as to
what ought to be done about it, just as the
non-intellectual person grizzles about the
way his wife cooks the bacon without pro-
ducing any constructive suggestions how a
Is 6d. cut can be made to taste like the
2s"-a-pound variety. The Bulletin’s marine
ex'nert gays “The Ship” contained some
interesting ideas, but that its conversational
tonhamper was out of all proportion to its
plot displacement and some of the running
tackle needed overhauling. Also, half-way
through the voyage it ran into the dol-
drums and if "it had not been for John
O’Keefe as Captain Cornelius producing the
fresh vegetables of
some beautifully
realistic comedy
the crew would all
have died of scurvy
or talkers’ itch or
something before
the brisk following
breeze sprang up
in the last act and
saved the situation.
Lucy Ahon, Hettio
Feuerman, Mabel
Thompson, Eric
Donald and John
O’Keefe all be-
haved like able-
seamen, but the
others appeared to
have been collected
by the press-gang.
If Frank Osbold-
stone had taken tin'
trouble to learn
the lines of John
Tliurlow the vessel
would not have
missed stays so
often.
V *
The Critic’s
typewriter in a
soliloquy:—
Hullo, where’s
the old boy been to
this time? He
seems to be excited.
“Brailowsky at th
Town Hall, Mel-
bourne.” I feared
as much—now for
some superlatives!
“Gorgeous tapes-
try of sound woven
by the surest, deft-
est pair of fingers.”
“Hands,” I s’pose
he means, “Thin
young Russian
genius crouched like a question-mark
over the Steinway.” That’s for tin;
benefit of the advertisers. “But there is
no question as to the quality of his play-
ing.” Hullo, he seems pleased with that —
he’s shouted himself a Capstan on the
strength of it. “A romantic, but a romantic
who leads one by the hand into a Cloud
Cuckooland which is not an insult to the
intelligence.” Wonder where he pinched that
from. “As the evening progressed” wish
he would progress himself a bit. “Became
gorgeouser and gorgeouser.” No—“more
and more gorgeous.” Hullo, he’s gone away.
“Even gives a psychological coherence to
the rambling architecture of Liszt’s Sonata
in B Minor.” He must have been looking
up the dictionary. “And his Chopin—words
fail one!” Thank Heaven ! “By the time
the final encore arrived half his audience
were standing round young Brailowsky as if
he were a strefet accident.” Hullo, he’s
laughing—evidently thinks that’s funny. “In
short, this pianist satisfies all requirements.”
Why the blazes didn’t the idiot say that in
the first place instead of wearing out my
ribbon!
# * *
There was no lack of variety in the musi-
cal menu spread before Sydney music-lovers
at the Town Hall on Saturday night by Mur-
doch and Williams. The pianist’s most
ambitious offering was Bach’s Chromatic
Fantasia and Fugue, and he also played
some of his own settings of the chorale
preludes. He commands a fine sonorous tone,
and his phrasing is always clear and logical.
A H'andel Sonata, the Cesar Franck Prelude,
Chorale and Fugue and a Chopin group were
also presented. A reading of the Ballade in A
Flat was exceptionally impressive. Among
encores numbers were Debussy’s “Cathedrale
Engloutie,” John Ireland’s “Island Spell”
and Rachmaninoff’s G Minor Prelude.
Harold Williams, a baritone of engaging
personality, won his audience with his first
song. He enunciates clearly and sings intelli-
gently. With Ernest Truman at the organ
he sang some of Handel’s most smoothly-
flowing melodies and “O Star of Eve” from
“Tannhauser,” and with Lindsay Biggins at
the piano he was heard in Korbay’s “Had a
Horse,” “Marishka” and “Shepherd, See Thy
Horse’s Foaming Mane,” all sung with
dramatic feeling. Vaughan Williams’s
“Linden Lea,” sung first to the occupants of
the choir gallery and then to the main hall,
was an exceptionally successful item, and in
“My Father Has Some Very Fine Sheep”
there were amusing farmyard imitations.
The night was chilly and the hall unheated,
but there was a warm ovation for both
principals at the end.
*, * * ~... ,
“Autumn Leaves was an addition to x av-
lova’s procession of enchanting ballets at Liis
Majesty’s, Melbourne, last week. It is the
one that pleased the Japs best when the lady
visited their country. A simple, realistic
picture of a natural incident, it speaks a
sort of Esperanto understandable by any-
body. Hitcliins, as the North Wind, was a
masterpiece of make-up, whose rushings to
ANNIE HUGHES, of the party who will be “Outward Bound”
at Sydney Savoy on Saturday.
and fro scattered the delicious creatures re-
presenting the decaying foliage. He even
Sent a draught over the footlights. Chief
amongst the leaves was dainty Ma’m’selle
Mather, whose innate pertness of demeanor
even extends to her ankles. In a few days’
time the Pavlova season will be a gracious
memory, with the last performance of the
Swan dance as its swansong.
* *
After a few weeks of pretty general tame-
ness, Sydney Tivoli audiences were in a
fairly hungry mood on Saturday to welcome
Dora Maughan, the beauteous American lady
whose innocent words made a London man-
agement ring down the rag on her, and who
has just survived a successful run in Mel-
bourne. Nothing in the rest of the bill soars,
but it all keeps a reasonably entertaining
level.
* # *
Connor and Paul contrive to keep the
banner of local vaudeville flying more or less
successfully at Melbourne Bijou, and,
equipped with a face like an uncooked pike-
let and wearing a suit that looks as if it
had been designed for the frame of an adult
elephant, Syd Beck has no difficulty in rais-
ing continuous and spontaneous laughter.
* V #
Adelaide gave “Rio Rita” at the Royal
a final send-off that almost surprised itself.
It is a jolly show all round. Two details
that greatly attract vhe present critic are
the,quiet method of Charles Norman as the
comic young lawyer and the fine acting of
Gaston Mervale, though he is gradually
becoming so Mexican that he might soon
be unintelligible. “Scandal” is the present
cheap dish at the Royal. It is an old story ;
but Leon Gordon never fails to thrill a
feminine audience when he demands that
Mary MacGregor, having claimed in public to
be his wife, shall in private behave as
such.
V *
The “Outward Bound” revival at Sydney
Savoy on Saturday afternoon will introduce
English actress Annie Hughes in the part
of Mrs. Midget. At the following week-end
Leon Gordon returns to the Royal with
Edgar Wallace’s “Flying Squad,” and a
week later E. J. Gravestock continues the
concert season at the Town Hall by intro-
ducing Dusolina Giannini, who sang the title
role of “Aida” at Covent Garden last year.
Miss Giannini is supported by American
violinist Sol Deutsch and Molly Bernstein,
pianist.


EXECUTIVE for
A General Finance and Discount Company.
We are seeking the best man in the field to head as general manager a
corporation which is being organised to serve the Australian public in
the field of mercantile, industrial and personal finance.
Plans are being completed to begin operating at once in Sydney.
The man we want has had many years’ experience in this field, and
should now be close to the top in a business of the same type. He
must be able to select and conduct the entire business of the corporation
on his own responsibility.
The opportunity for such a man is obvious. Our capital will be amply
sufficient, and experience in allied fields of our officers and directors
assures the selected executive of the fullest and most able co-operation.
If you feel that you are equipped to undertake this work, write us fully.
Your communication will be held in strict confidence, and an interview
will be arranged.
“FINANCE,”
Care COUNTRY PRESS C 0-0 P. C 0.,
5-7 BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY.
“Pioneer” Means Dependable Power Transmission.
m.
BtISHIO
What are your most difficult belting problems? Are
they heavy, gruelling main drives where the belt must
withstand the constant strain of transmitting hundreds
of horse-power day in and day out, or light, high-
speed drives where extreme accuracy is essential to
minimise vibration and slippage?
Whatever your problems may be you will find
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
absolutely dependable under all conditions of service. Our 70 years of belting
experience are at your disposal in helping to solve your particular problems.
We know working conditions.
J. C. LUDOWICI <a SON, LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, Sydney.
Pioneer Tanners and Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
VICTOUIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 20-26 Queen’s
Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Iloey Fry, Ltd., Edward
Street, Brisbane;
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell & Sons,
Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards & Upton,
Auckland.
Patterson 4 Barr, Ltd., Dunedin.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Limited.
Net
Earn- Debenture
Mar., ings. Interest. Dividend. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1919 222,950 68,338 15 p.c. = 115.951 659,018
1920 161,039 ' 66,960 15 „ „ 115,951 ) fil9 14fi
Drought exes, written off, £25,000 ) °
Premiums on new shares, £35,960 648,106
19.81 119,427 65,614 10 p.c. =- 84.493 617,426
1922 237,039 65,641 15 „ „ 137,527 651.297
Harrison, Jones and Devlin, Ltd. (N.S.W.), bought out.
Premiums on new shares, £37,500. . 688,797
1923 230,833 65,324 15 p.c. = 145,027 709,279
1924 290,259 64,569 15 „ „ 145,027 789,942
Bagot, Shakes and Lewis, Ltd. (S.A.), bought out.
Premiums on'new shares, £186,113 976,055
Additions to reserves, £280,947.. 1,257.002
1925 372,313 63,346 15 p.c. = 212,592 1,353,377
Premiums on new shares, £187,500.. 1,540,877
1926 378,325 63,233 15 p.c. = 250,000 1,605,969
1927 373,377 63,091 15 „ „ 262,500 1,653,755
Premiums on new shares, £187,500. . 1,841,255
1928 374,847 62,967 15 p.c. = 287,500 1,865,635
1929 381,572 62,925 15 „ „ 300,000 1,884,282
The development has been so rapid that of
the £2,000,000 of paid capital no less than
£1,083,151 was got in during the last five
years; it brought with it £561,113 of share
premiums. The premium—15s. per share on
the last three issues—means that the new
capital is costing the co. only 8£ p.c. That,
of course, makes a high nominal rate of divi-
dend not merely possible, but almost inevit-
able.
And the co. is well equipped otherwise to
earn good profits. At March 31, in addition
to £1,884,282 of visible reserves, capital had
the assistance of £1,427,842 of debenture
stock—a reminder of the shattered values of
36 years ago—which was costing under 4£
p.c. on the average.
To pay a 15 p.c. div. shareholders’ funds
(capital aud reserves combined) had, at
March 31, to earn 7.7 p.c. Last year 8.2
p.c. was netted on average funds as against
8.5 p.c. and 9.2 p.c. in the two preceding
years. On average capital alone the year’s
net profit (£318,647) was 15.9 p.c. compared
with 16.8, 17.7, 18.9, 21.8 and 23.3 p.c. back
to 1924, when record wool prices fattened
commission earnings. Chief cause of the
steady decline in those ratios has been the
flood of new capital, which, of course, can-
not be expected to earn at the same rate as
the old million. Not for a while, at any
rate, especially with wool moving downward
so emphatically.
There lias been no falter in expansion of
the business. Though scattered over all the
Australian States, the co. is strongest in
N. S. Wales, where it took over Harrison,
Jones and Devlin, Ltd., in 1923, and where
it receives about half the wool it handles
and does most of its live-stock turnover. In
1924 a strong hold was gained also in 3.
Aus. and Westralia by the purchase of Bagot,
Shakes and Lewis.
These purchases, a run of fair seasons and
the influence of the new capital are reflected
in the next comparison of p. and 1. figures-
Provi-
Gross Debenture dent Net
Profit. Expenses. Interest. Fund. Profit.
£ £ £ £ £
1920.. 299,901 161,862* 66,960 2000 69,079
1921.. 256,789 135,362 65,614 2000 53,813
1922.. 377.655 138,616 65,641 2000 171,398
Harrison, Jones and Devlin, Ltd., purchased.
1923.. 431,112 197,779 65,324 2500 165,509
1924.. 498,039 205,280 64,569 2500 225,690
Bagot, Shakes and Lewis, Ltd., purchased.
1925.. 806,413 429,100 63.346 5000 308,967
1926.. 846,050 462,725 63,233 5000 315,092
1927.. 855,272 476,894 63,091 5000 310,286
1928.. 889,060 509,213 62,967 5000 311,880
1929.. 914,201 527,629 62,925 6000 318,647
♦lncluding £25,000 drought exes.
In the pastoral industry conditions were
patchy last year. Though the wool consigned
to the co. (303,832 bales) was 14,744 bales
more than in the previous term, the year’s
actual sales and shipments (282,070) were
22,145 less, and 25,441 bales were on hand
at March 31 as against 3679 a year earlier.
Moreover, the market opened about 5 p.c.
below the closing rates for the previous sea-
son, and prices are now down 15-20 p.c.
below opening rates. Sheep sold at a lower
figure, too, but cattle fetched better prices
than they had for some years, and turnover
in the live-stock department was helped by
the purchase of Badgery Bros., Ltd., early
in the term —the price paid for the business
was not disclosed. More attention is also
being given to the development of the co.’s
merchandising activities; and in some States
the nimble commission on city and suburban
property sales is also pursued.
From one cause and another the board
was able to show a gross profit £25,141 better
than the 1928 figure, which was £63,788 better
than its immediate predecessor.. Exes, took
57.7 p.c. of it as against 55.7 p.c. in 1927
and only 36.7 p.c. in 1922. It is doubtful
to what extent exes, can be cut back. But
before writing gross profits into the sheet,
provision is made for bad and doubtful debts,
etc., and the probabilities are that some true
profit has been tucked away under cover of
the £5,031,221 at which advances figure in
the sheet. They increased by no less than
£586,004 last year, and, though most of
that is no doubt the direct result of bad con-
ditions, given fair prices, etc., it augurs
well for future earnings. There is
also a tidy inner reserve in the property
item (£605.915, up £28.540 during the year) ;
the basis of valuation has not been materially
altered since the beginning of this century.
Within the last three years the co. has had
to double its storage accommodation at Port
Adelaide and build a new wool store at Fre-
mantle.
During the year Bawra distributed
amongst the wool-selling brokers about
£450,000 which it had held in trust on
account of commissions earned under the
Imperial wool purchase scheme. How much
of that sum G. M. and Go. was entitled to
has not been disclosed, but the co. is the
second-biggest wool-seller in Australia, so
the amount is likely to be substantial. What-
ever may have been received in this connec-
tion has apparently been sent away to inner
reserves —possibly to further protect the book
value of advances.
The remarkable growth of the business over
the last nine years is further reflected in
this comparison of balance-sheet figures :
Liabilities.
1920. 1926. 1928. 1929.
£ £ £ £
Capital .. 773,010 1,750,000 2,000,000 2,000,000
Debentures. 1,504,648 1,434,658 1,428,622 1,427,842
Other liabili-
ties . . 118,411 813,211 882,243 1,253,055
Assets.
Liquid assets 647,455 1,023,287 976,418 722,347
Advances .. 1,967,430 3,687,113 4,445,217 5,031,221
Pro perties
and stock 220,723 345,500 268,041 267,330
Pro m ises,
etc. .. 212,803 634,049 577,375 605,915
Other assets 64,105 93,889 114,449 143,367
During the year £370,512 was added to the
outside debt, which consists chiefly of the
amount coming to trade creditors (£775,228,
up £168.816) and of money held on deposit
(£406,287, up £204,440) ; also liquids were
drawn upon for £254,071. The money that
thus became available was used mostly to
accommodate clients. The purchase of
Badgery Bros, is reflected by an increase of
£21,100 in the book value of shares in other
cos. (£56,463). The £267,330 at which pro-
perties and stock appear indicates that the
co. is still a pretty big run-owner.
The immediate outlook is one of small 01’
incomes in the pastoral and agricultural in-
dustries. Though the drought in the far
west of Queensland has broken, and most
of the State is in good heart, the back
country in N. S. Wales, the West Darling,
most of S. Aus. and parts of the Mallee
badly want rain. However, conditions would
have to be very bad before the co. was com-
pelled to show a really poor basket. The
market’s opinion is that the pound shares,
which have a net tangible backing of 38s.
10d., are worth 51s. 3d. Allowing for the
final div. and bonus (25.), the return at that
figure is .6.1 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis.
Australian Glass Manufacturers Co., Ltd.
Paid Capital. Net Profit.
March, £ £
1919 .. 276,005 20,309
1920 .. 276,005 51,106
1921 .. 442,489 65,524
Reconstructed and amalgamated with Zetland Glass
Bottle Works, Ltd.
, Dividends. x Nominal
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
March, £ £ £ £ £
1923* 139,370 18,675 10 p.c. = 90,850 30,145 30,145
Reserve adjustment . . 456 30,601
1924.. 147,207 15,750 10 p.c. = 77,570 53,887 84,488
1925.. 151,210 15.750 10 „ ~80,780 54,680 139,168
1926.. 163.799 15,750 10 „ ~91,094 56,955 196,123
1927.. 179,365 15,750 10 „ „ 93,044 70,571 260,694
1928. 184,868 15,750 10 „ ~93,048 76,070 342,764
1929.. 207,952 15,750 124 „ ~116,310 75,892 418,656
*l4 months.
Further substantial progress was made last
year, and an extra 2i p.c., which the board
labelled bonus, goes out with the final div.
to the ords., making 12| p.c. for the year.
Although that called for an additional
£23,262, it was quite a comfortable matter.
The leap of £33,571 in the year’s gross
profit, which mounted to the record figure of
£432,396, was largely due to the success of
the new automatic bottle-making plant,
which was installed in each of the co.’s five
Australian factories during the previous
term, when, also, the Maoriland Government
granted the co. a trifle more protection, and
the management promptly duplicated the
Auckland plant. Exes. (£224,503) took only
49.6 p.c. of the year’s gross profit as against
53.7 p.c. in the previous term, and the admit-
ted net earnings benefited by £23,084. So,
after handing the prefs. their £15,750, the
balance of the year’s net profit climbed to
an attractive 20.6 p.c. on average ordinary
capital; that was preceded by 18.2. 17.6, 16.3
and 16.8 p.c. back to 1925. Hence, in
addition to paying good divs., wide margins
of profits have remained in the business. This
has not only steadily increased the capital
value of the scrip in the books, but, with
the assistance of other factors, it has helped
to put more sparkle into earnings.
Shareholders have seen the market price
of their shares steadily strengthen. From
275. paid for the pound ords. a little over
four years ago the price went to 435. at the
close of accounts in 1928; recent sales were
at 525. At that price, after allowing for
the final div. and bonus (Is. 6d.), the return
is a whisper under 5 p.c. on a 124 p.c. div.
basis, and the £75,892 sent to reserves last
year was equal to another 3.1 p.c. on the
current price. Obviously the market expects
further benefits.
The £415.656 of reserves in the window
at March 31 was offset in part by £ll4 500
that the present co. paid for the goodwill of
the amalgamated businesses seven years ago.
That is to say, there were net tangible assets
with a book value of 265. 6d to earn profits
for each 20s. of ord. capital. This means
that just on half the market price of shares
is paid for goodwill.
One of the outstanding features of the
co.’s success has been a vigrrous reorganisa-
tion of manufacturing methods. As new pro-
cesses and other improvements are discovered
the alert management instals them. In this
respect the co. has the benefit of strong busi-
ness and technical connections in Britain
and elsewhere, and regularly the managing
director goes abroad. The new plant re-
cently installed at the Spotswood (Vic.) fac-
tory is designed to liven the output by as
much as 75 p.c. in some lines. Such a
policy, of course, makes the constant scrap-
ping of plant and a heavy depreciation and
replacements bill inevitable.
Except for £154,743 of capital got in four
years ago, all new plant and additions to pre-
mises, and the purchase of the Crystal Glass,
Ltd. (Sydney), in 1926. and of the Westra-
lian Glass Works in 1927, have been paid
for out of earnings.
Book value of plant at the close of last
accounts was actually £187,945 less than it
was six years earlier, notwithstanding sub-
stant'al additions. Also freeholds are in at
£32.812 less than they were at March 31,
1924. It is obvious that the published
accounts very conservatively state the co.’s
position. Here is as much as balance-sheet
figures tell:—
IQ9I IQ9R IQ9Q
Liabilities .. .. £87,607 £173,799* £176~957*
Land and buildings.. 206,067 189,813 172,255
Machinery and plant 451,364 326,483 31-4.214
Stocks 316,225 447,786 519,687
Book debts .. .. 127,901 166,994 194,597
Cash, investments, etc. 18,816 430,864 463,499
•Includes “provision for taxation.”
Though the exact liquid position is obscured
by the lumping of shares in other cos. with
cash and money at call (£463,499, up £32,635
during the year), finance is manifestly snug.
Liabilities include provision for taxation. The
increase of £71,901 in the book value of
stocks largely reflects the board’s policy of
building up trading supplies to ensure prompt
delivery.
Shortly a subsidiary is to be formed to
manufacture sheet glass; the plant is now
being installed at Sydney, but production
is not expected to begin until about the end
of the year. When these works are in full
swing a deferred tariff of 2d. per lb. will
operate, increasing the cost of Belgian glass
here to about three times the present cost
of production in Belgium. Incidentally, the
coal strike in N. S. Wales recently stopped
output in the pressed-glass section, which is
handled by the Crown Crystal Co., and which
has thus far not contributed much to the
pool, though much progress has been made
on the technical side.
The investment market sees no cloud in
the co.’s_ sky. For the prefs., which carry a
cumulative 9 p.c. and have priority as to
capital, 30s. is paid ; at that figure' the re-
turn is 6 p.c. Last year’s net profit was
over 13 times their annual requirements;
and the cover amounts to a shade over £8
in net tangibles.
Electric Light and Power (Sydney).
Writ- Re-
April, Profit. Dividends. ten Off. serves.
£ £ £, £
1919 .. 38,598 8 p.c. = 19,868 7,610 6,565
1920 .. 42,987 8 ~ .. 20,488 8.454 20,610
1921 .. 37,403 101 „ „ 27,259 10,000 20,754
1922 .. 45 507 10 „ „ 32.473 12,500 21,378
1923 .. 58,655 10 „ „ 39,207 13.000 27,826
1924 .. 55,303 10 „ „ 43,704 16.000 23,425
Premiums on shares, £ll2 .. 23,537
1975 .. 72.413 10 p.c. = 53,513 18.000 24.437
1926 ~ 89,526 10 „ ~ 57,937 26,150 29,876
1927,.. 90,515 10 „ ~61,375 27,700 31.316
1928 . . 102,446 10 ~ „ 65.336 33,100 35,326
Pref. Ord.
C 7 p.c.) (10 p.c.)
1929 . . 107,862 88 72,494 33,500 37,106
Shortly b<ffor° the clos° of last accounts the
co. bought Belmont Buildings, 15 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, for £95 000. To finance
the deal and provide for further expansion
of the business, shareholders were offered
250,U00 £1 shares, one ord. and two prefs.
for every nine shares held. The lot (166,667
prefs. and 83,333 ords.) was quickly taken,
advancing subscribed capital to a round mil-
lion, of which 833,333 are ords. and the
balance prefs., at April 30. Paid capital was
then £812,500, so there was still £187,500 to
come in. When the lot is received the pref.
reouiremcnts and 10 p.c. to the ords. will
call for £95,000 p.a. or 91 p.c. on the total
capital. But since the money from the new
issue will have to earn only 8 p.c. p.a. in
order to pay the prefs. their 7 p.c. and the
ords. 10 p.c., it seems unlikely that the pre-
sent rate of div. will be disturbed —given nor-
mal conditions, of course.
For the last nine years shareholders have
had a steady 10 p..c, but there has been
nothing much to spare after allowing for de-
preciation, shown as written off in the table.
Over the same period visible reserves have
benefited by only £16,496. Last year the
accounts claimed as profit £125,820. That
less £19,000 set aside for taxation, plus £1042
dropped from somewhere into the general
reserve, gives the £107,862 shown above. The
£74,362 netted was 10.2 p.c. on average ord.
capital compared with 10.6, 10.2, 10.9, 10.1
and 7.3 p.c, back to, 1924, when earnings had
to bear a special charge for renewals.
A point to be kept in mind is that the co.
operates a public utility, so nothing better
than 10 p.c. need be looked for. It is to
new share issues, which are made at par,
that shareholders have to look for their
sweets, and no further requirements in that
irection need be anticipated for a while. The
purchase of a big city property in a central
nnsition seems a first-rate piece of business.
Obviously 10 p.c., or even an average of 8 p.c.,
a the security of such a freehold is better
ban the same return on a purely industrial
venture, with some limitations as to fran-
chises.
Visible reserves are not much of a prop
for the big wad of paid capital. The true
profit depends largely upon whether the pro-
visions made for depreciation, etc., prove to
be too great or too little. The co. has never
failed to pay a div. for the last 19 out of
the 22 years during which it has been operat-
ing, and enough data about wear and tear
and obsolescence should have been gathered
during that time, so it seems unlikely that
provisions have been insufficient. The £33,500
so put aside last year was a shade over 4
p.c. on the book value of the power-house
and other plant at April 30, after allowing
for the £200,039 previously written off.
The next comparison shows how the busi-
ness has grown since 1912:
Working
Consumers. Revenue. Expenses.
1912 .. 1,203 £20,664 £9,463
1916 . . 3,648 47,844 23,139
1920 .. 7,596 80,496 31,456
1922 .. 10,824 115,111 59,568
1924 .. 15,032 147,086 78,533
1925 .. 17,311 167,592 84,950
1920 .. 19.310 187,719 83,693
1927 .. 21,267 207,509 97,994
1928 .. 23,125 226,183 104,237
1929 .. 24,928 243,373 117,553
Exes, took 48.3 p.c. of last year’s gross profit
as against 46.1 p.c. and 47.2 p.c. in the two
preceding terms. Light and power figures are
not separated in the sheet, but much of the
recent growth has been due to industrial ex-
pansion in the five suburban territories over
which the co. holds franchises. These areas
are hemmed in by the big Sydney electric-
supply undertaking, which means that the
rate of future expansion is limited. Except
the original franchise (Balmain), which is
perpetual, the co.’s rights have up to 38 years
yet to run, subject in all cases to purchase
options, mostly at 10-yearly intervals, by the
councils concerned. But the exercise of these
options is unlikely.
The year’s activities, and other things, are
reflected in this comparison of balance-sheet
figures:—
1091 IQ9fi IQOQ IQ9Q
Capital . . £601,250 £675,000 £812,500
Debentures . . 50,000
Other liabilities 59,873 50,390 161,794 172,319
Fixed assets. . 413,875 818,196 1,065,211 1,252,826
Stocks, etc. .. 24.952 19,129 20,839 23,914
Book debts .. 15,403 13,088 15,472 11,015
Cash, etc. .. 15,868 3,563 3,474 5,359
Capital outlay for the 12 months was
£187.615, of which freeholds accounted for
£99,530, and plant of one kind and another
for most of the balance. The debt, includ-
ing a mortgage of £42,000 raised during the
year was £132,031 in excess of the more or
less liquids at April 30, but the position in
that respect can be expected to ease as the
capital at call is got in.
The market prices the fully paid ords. at
325. 3d. After allowing for the final div.
(Is.) the return at that figure is 6.4 p.c. on
a 10 p.c. div. basis. Including the uncalled
capital, the backing amounts to 20s. 9d.
per share in net tangibles, mostly in plant
worth what it can earn. The prefs., now
paid to ss. each —they carry a cumulative
7 p.c. and have priority as to capital—are
worth 6s. 6d. on the market. When fully
paid the return at that price is 6% p.c.; the
backing in net tangibles amounts to £7 4s. sd.
per share, and last year’s net profit was over
six times their full annual requirements.
(Continued on page 20.)


Regulation of Gas Supply
-S6 *ol^oUSAyjOj.
@r
P
♦€>
*
This is a direct result of the loss of coal trade and consequent
closing of the collieries, following upon the refusal of the Mine-
workers to co-operate with the owners in reduction of
production costs.
Shipped from Newcastle in 1924 * 4,688,356 tons
Shipped from Newcastle in 1928 - 2,885,958 „
The Cause
SINCE 1916, the selling price of coal has more
than doubled owing to increases in wages, mater-
ial and railway freights.
Between 1919 and March, 1929, there were 2928
separate strikes on the Northern Field. Because of
these things, N.S.W. coal cannot compete with coal
produced in other countries*
The Remedy
THE Government is ready to reduce freights, the Owner*
will sacrifice profits, and it is only fair that the Mine-
workers should accept slightly lower wage rates.
The Owners insist that to secure efficiency they shall have th*
right freely to select and dismiss their employees.
With reduced costs, the Owners hope to regain their lost trade.
Employees may work for smaller rates, but they will ha v e
more regular employment and consequently be better off.
The Collieries are closed until, by re-adjustment of costs,
it becomes possible to regain the lost trade. To re-open
under any other conditions would be worse than useless.
THE ISSUE IS A SIMPLE ONE:—
For the Coalfields:
a— —uammammmmmmmMtm —— *
Reduced costs mean
more regular employment:
the alternative is increasing
stagnation.
For the Public:
Cheaper coal means: —
Cheaper Fares
Cheaper Gas
Cheaper Power
Increased Employment
Stimulation of all Industry
For the Owners:
The Owners gain
nothing directly from re-
ductions. The Public gets
the full benefit, including
the advantage of 1/- per
ton from the Owners.
Public, Owners and Miners will all Benefit by the
Saving of the Industry and Recovery of Trade
Publication authorised by C. M. McDONALD, Chairman, Northern Collieries Association, Sydney


4111(11 111
Get your
PAINTS and
VARNISHES
from
AGENTS
EVERYWHERE.
THEY "KEEP ON KEEPING ONI
Wool & Wheat
It Are Down
What will happen next?
Certainly some invest-
ments will suffer.
The wise man will watch
his little lot.
You may have every-
thing in insurance poli-
cies. All the more
reason to see the offices
are sound. There are
offices that are not
sound.
The leading Australian
authority on all these
matters is
“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY.”
JUNE NUMBER NOW ON SALE
SINGLE COPY, 2/- ; PER ANNUM,
22/6. P'rom Newsagents, or Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
British and American Capital to Invest .on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
# * * *
The many important water-conveying schemes that
have been entrusted to Pioneer Wood Pipe and its
wonderful record of service in every instance are strik-
ing proofs of the capabilities of this form of conduit,
Cheaper to buy, instal, maintain and freight—its
advantages are obvious. Being absolutely non-corrosive,
the bore is always free from rust and growth of any
kind. Pioneer Wood Pipe is unaffected by extremes
of heat, and is proof against the effects of electrolysis.
Illustrated book free on application to the Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Figtree
Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; and at Footscray, Vic-
toria. — Advt.
S.l * * *
Mining Properties. —l have large London Capital
available for approved Properties—Gold, Tin, lode
or alluvial, and Silver-lead. Reply with particulars
to “London,” c/o Mercantile Exchange, 380 Collins
Street, Melbourne, C.l. — Advt.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES —AUSTRALIAN MADE.-—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons]
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
r
&
B O ORD&S OK
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
fit
DT
Lgwift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents. 26 30 Clarence St., Sydney ,
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-Glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone,
etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
Sydney Water Board Loan.
To provide for capital outlay on its works
programme, the Sydney Water Board is on
the market with £1,500,000 worth of 5J
p.c. stock or debentures of 15 years’ cur-
rency. The issue price is £9O 10s., so the
annual return the investor is £5 10s. 7d.
p.c., or £5 11s. p.c. including redemption.
Interest and principal are guaranteed by the
Government of N. S. Wales. The loan has
been underwritten by the Commonwealth
Bank, which is also acting as the issuing
house; the bank is in close touch with some
of the big insurance and other financial
concerns. This may mean the development
of a powerful underwriting group for such
operations; if so, it is a move in the right
direction. Applications will be received and
interest paid by the bank at the capital cities
of the Commonwealth free of exchange. To
an investor outside N. S. Wales interest on
the loan is free of taxation in that State
up to £250 for single and £3OO for married
persons, provided, of course, that the total
income from N. S. Wales sources does not
exceed those amounts.
J. B. Were and Son are the official brokers.
Mt. Isa.
Frank Ilambridge sums up Mt. Isa: —
The note from “a London correspondent” relating
to Mt. Isa (B. 5/6/’29) has in a measure been
offset by the comments of “an Australian mining
engineer.” If the remarks of the former had been
confined to any apparent weakness in the tech-
nique of Mt. Isa, after hearing what the Australian
mining engineer had said one could leave it to
time to settle the argument. There is, however,
more in the letter from the London correspondent
than meets the eye. I came to this conclusion after
reading the letter to see if it contained even the
germ of solicitude for Australia. His purpose, it
seems to me, is to belittle the Russo-Asiatic group
who are bringing good . capital into this country
to open up a silver-lead deposit which for magni-
tude is certainly comparable with Broken Hill.
I hold no brief for Russo-Asiatic, nor am I con-
cerned one bit with the present price of Isa shares.
With others I was glad to resign from the Isa
Board to make room for Russo-Asiatic representa-
tives, because I knew they were men of capacity,
honesty of purpose, high technical skill and with
the financial resources to bring any proposition
which they control to a successful producing stage.
The London correspondent’s letter begins: “At this
distance it is difficult to understand Australia’s
apparent tremendous optimism with regard to Mt.
Isa.” Now, where in Australia does this “tremen-
dous optimism” exist? In fact, Australia’s optimism
regarding Isa has waned mainly because of hostile
propaganda insidiously promoted by jealous interests
who, failing to get a stranglehold on the field in
its early days, have never since lost an opportunity
to damn it in every conceivable direction in an
effort to prevent it coming to a productive stage.
He asks: “Does Australia know enough about the
Corporation which has the venture in hand to
bank so heavily with it.” Generally speaking, it
can be said that Australia understands that Russo-
Asiatic is guided by Leslie Urquhart, and anyone
with a knowledge of the world’s mining ventures,
and Mt. Isa in particular, knows that Leslie Urqu-
hart, apart from his own technical attainments, has
the capacity for selecting and employing the best
technical brains that this world can produce. He
has applied that method here, and, as a result, this
Commonwealth is already richer by reason of the
specialists’ brains that have been exercising them-
selves at Isa.
Furthermore, to my own knowledge, Leslie Urquhart
enjoys the confidence and financial backing of men
whose door would not be open to the gentlemen
whose propaganda I have referred to.
The London man says:—
“It is quite possible for a concern of the kind
(Russo-Asiatic) to make a great deal of money
out of a failure —in short, out of the market—
even though nothing can be made out of the metal.
In that there is no reflection whatever on the honesty
of the Corporation or any person connected with it.”
If that is the moral code of this London cor-
respondent, all I have to say is that he is the
last man whom one should credit with a desire to
protect the simple Australian investor. We know
that we periodically have gangs in Australia who,
in a mining boom, are prepared to legally burgle
the savings of the widow and the servant-girl. But
any self-respecting technical man, Australian or Eng-
lish, would prefer to equip himself with thimbles
and pea and proceed to earn his living on the race-
course. A technical failure but a sharemarket suc-
cess is not the way the reputable mining groups
of to-day make their living. To put it on its
lowest possible plane, it is not business. I think
I could burgle a bank —once. But I have an
idea that somebody would stop me from making a
practice of it. The modern mining engineer (and
Leslie Urquhart’s associates are confined to that
class) is more desirous of technical success than of
making money. Naturally he aims at both.
The other brick hurled at the Rtisso-Asiatie group
concerns their business acumen, not their honesty.
It is suggested that the Russo-Asiatic, having
purchased some of the Anglo-American holding in
Mt. Isa, were left with it when Anglo-American
Corporation of South Africa turned -Mt. Isa down.
Rather than lose that cash, Russo-Asiatic
decided to put more in. What are the facts ?
Anglo-American Coroporation bought 50,000 Isa
shares at par. Assume that in turn the Russo-
Asiatic group purchased the whole lot of them,
which of course is unlikely. Their investment would
therefore be in the neighborhood of £50,000.
Russo-Asiatic could have sold those shares readily
at any time for £40,000, or a loss, we will say, of
£lO,OOO. This London correspondent suggests that,
rather than lose £lO,OOO, the Russo-Asiatic gentle-
men decided to send £1,000,000 after it in oidei
to bring it back!
To the man in the street it certainly appeared
that Isa had received a knock when Anglo-American
Corp. turned it down. But Leslie Urquhart had
good reason for believing what he has since
proved, viz., that the metal recoveries would be in-
finitely higher than the Anglo-American Corpora-
tion banked on.
I believe the time will come when Australia will
cherish tremendous enthusiasm for the work which
Russo-Asiatic is quietly but expeditiously doing.
Leslie Urquhart and his associates are pioneering
the emancipation of the Australian mining industry
here, and, whether they reap success or not, they
deserve well of the Commonwealth.
The Broken Hill Central power plant-
six 3000-li.p. Diesel engines—together with
Sulphide Corp.’s two 1100-h.p. machines, will
have a combined capacity of 20,200 h.p. "he
Diesel engine consumes about 0.41 b. of oil
per h.p. per hour, so something in the neigh-
borhood of 26,000 tons of crude oil annually
will be required for the two plants. The ther-
mal efficiency of a Diesel is three times that
of a steam engine, and a wide variety of
oils can be used. Less attendance and main-
tenance are other advantages. The cost of
power is usually less than Id. per unit con-
siderably below that of the coal-steam sys-
tem. Diesel engines are now recognised as
the best power generators for mines in
isolated localities.
* * * *
B. H. Associated Smelters, at Port Pirie
(S. Aus.), recently installed a complete
mechanical haulage (telpher) system for
feeding the lead sinter, coke and fluxes into
the lead blast furnaces. The baghouse, in
which dust and fumes from the furnaces are
removed, has been extended, and in the huge
refinery, where the gold and silver are re-
moved by the addition of zinc, a new process
is being tried on a commercial scale.
Intensive study and research and the scrap-
ping of out-of-date methods and equipment
keep this smelter among the most efficient
in the world, and a credit to Australian
metallurgists.
* * * *
Some of the beach sands at Byron Bay
(N.S.W.) contain ldwt. gold, ldwt. plati-
num, % per cent, tin oxide, 10 per cent, ilmen-
ite, 30 per cent, rutile, 2 per cent, monazite
and 40 per cent, zircon. Both ilmcnite and
rutile are being used in increasing quanti-
ties for the production of ferro-titanium and
titanium oxide. Ferro : titanium is used as
a cleanser in steel-making, to the extent of
a few pounds per ton, and the oxide is used
as a paint. Monazite occurs as yellowish
translucent grains and contains the rare
metals cerium and thorium, for which the
demand is not great. If a clean separation
of rutile, monazite and zircon into concen-
trates could be made the sands should pay
handsomely with present prices.
* * * *
The treatment of gold-antimony ore, such
as occurs at Costerfield (Vic.) and other
localities in Australia, has always been a
problem, largely because antimony is a nuis-
ance at a lead smelter; otherwise, of course,
the ore could be treated by flotation and the
gold-antimony concentrate smelted. Often
the presence of arsenic further complicates
the separation and raises the tariff of the
lead smelter. A straight gold-antimony has
been treated with an extraction of 90 p.c.
of the gold by roasting with charcoal or coal
at a low temperature to volatilise the antimony,
arsenic and sulphur, then leaching the cal-
cine with dilute acid, followed by washing
and eyanidation. In Rhodesia, at the Cam
and Motor Mine, gold-arsenic-antimony ore,
after fine crushing, is passed to concentrat-
ing tables from which a considerable amount
of stibnite (antimony sulphide), because of
its flakiness, overflows. This stibnite is re-
covered by flotation and sent to Europe. The
table concentrate, containing most of the
arsenopyrite (arsenic iron sulphide), is recon-
centrated, and 83 p.c. of the gold recovered by
amalgamation with scrap-iron and mercury
in a revolving barrel. Old-style methods still
rule for arsenic-antimony ores.
* * * *
No big gold-bearing formation has been
found at Glenelg Hills, Perth’s nearest gold-
field, but there are at least a dozen shallow-
seated deposits from which small tonnages
could be extracted. Excavation of a very
necessary dam has been commenced, and,
with luck, treatment facilities will be avail-
able by Christmas. Incidentally, the mort-
gagee is in possession of the Queen lease, and
the Monte Carlo Co., which is being recon-
structed, hopes to take over the property.
* * * *
At the Edna May Group, late McCahon’s,
the main ore body is being depleted and no-
thing fresh has been found to replace it.
Also the chances of the local director being
successful in placing 100,000 reserve shares
at £1 during his proposed visit to London
are regarded as remote.
* * * *
Golden Butterfly’s new board has not
found office a bed of roses. A legal action
is pending against the co., funds are depleted
and shareholders are shy about putting in
more. Meanwhile the board has decided. to
treat 500 tons at the Norseman State mill;
the result should give an idea as to what
ought to be done with the leases.
* * * *
Les Trois and Royal Flush lodes at
Westonia (W.A.) are in harder country rock
than that which encloses McCahon’s deposit.
Both Les Trois and Flush have rich shoots,
but better developments need to be disclosed
before either show is likely to be worth
much. The Les Trois is being worked by a
co. of the same name, and the Royal Flush
by the Princess Royal Co.
* * * *
Prospects of Star Emerald Co. (W.A.)
are again being puffed in London. A year
or more ago shares in this concern soared
on reports that valuable finds had been made,
but the market soon sagged again. The co.
is now sinking a shaft preparatory to deep
mining.
* * * *
After the expenditure of much cash and
effort the resurrected Riverina mine at Menzies
(W.A.) milled 326 tons for 1540 z. If the
gold content of tailings is satisfactory, the
result looks good enough to warrant the hope
that something better may be met with.
* * * *
Oversight Tara leases, Broad Arrow
(W.A.), have just placed another specimen
crushing to their credit. Years ago a small
Adelaide co. floated by Dorrie Doolette and
others acquired these blocks. The prospectors
had done well, and shares in the purchasing
co. boomed. But its luck was out and
liquidation followed. Later on the pros-
pectors returned, took out some more gold
and left again. The battlers who came
after them have obtained occasional rich
returns.
* * * *
Adelaide-controlled Enterprise is trying
hard to hang on to old Boulder No. 1 and
an adjoining Kalgoorlie area in the hope of
successful flotation. Meanwhile the directors
express the belief that the show will develop
into a payable proposition. The market has
yet to be convinced.
* * * *
A Perth co. in which Oil Search, Ltd.,
Sydney, is interested is being launched with
a' capital of £70,000 to bore at Wooramel
River (W.A.), where domes, anticlines and
other geological indications of petroleum are
said to have been found by Dr. Woolnough,
11. W. B. Talbot and others.
* * * *
Total visible supplies of tin at May 31
were 24,779 tons; consumption during the
month was 13,427 tons, and supplies received
12,811 tons. Stocks are now 1000 tons less
than they were in February last, that amount
of tin having been consumed in excess of
production.
Here is a comparison of stocks, consump-
tion, deliveries and the average price of the
metal during the month of May since 1925:
Con-
May, Stocks, sumption. Supplies. Price of Tin-
-1925 .. 19,567 7,994 10,791 £247 6 0
1926 . . 17,045 8,197 11,548 266 14 6
1927 . . 13,850 9,171 10,205 286 9 1
1928 . . 16,898 8,702 10,739 230 10 1
1929 .. 24,779 13,427 12,811 200 3 0
The increase in consumption is very remark-
able, but the 5000 tons which have accumu-
lated in the last four years, appear to make
all the difference in the price of the metal.
However, despite the better recoveries that
have followed recent technical improvements
in the industry a number of lode shows and
some dredging propositions cannot make a
profit with tin at £2OO or under, which sug-
gests that production is likely to fall oft.
In that event, and should a strong buying
demand continue, prices might be expected
to strengthen again. But how soon the
“Wild Cat” does not know.
* * * *
For options given over its properties in
New Guinea to Ellyou Goldfields Develop-
ment, Edie Creek Prop, is to receive 500,000
shares in the working co. to be formed to
develop the field. Notice of intention to
exercise the option, which expires on Aug.
31, must be given by July 31. Cash in
hand and all gold won up to the exercise
of the option are to be retained by the Prop.
The leases concerned are those which were
granted to the applicants by the then Warden
on the ground that they could not be worked
by primitive sluicing methods. Since then
they have been constantly worked in this
fashion, and much gold has been recovered
from them. They are by far the most valu-
able proved asset among the numerous
options acquired by Ellyou in New Guinea.
* * * *
“Ajax”: As things stand, practically no
mining lease in Queensland is forfeited so
long as the rent is paid; any application for
forfeiture for non-compliance with working
conditions is met with a nominal fine. There
are many leases in this district (Herberton)
held by more or less defunct cos. and syndi-
cates that could be profitably worked. Appli-
cations for forfeiture are dealt with by the
Minister. They should be adjusted by the
Warden and mining inspector without re-
ference to the Minister.
* * * *
Systematic prospecting, by a rather novel
method is being carried out by the Anglo-
American Co. on its 350,000 sq. miles in
Northern Rhodesia. Young, technically-
trained mining men are being sent out in
pairs from established bases. Kach pair has
a definite route laid down, and is expected
to travel 15-20 miles daily. On its return
journey the party takes a route parallel to
the original one, but about half a mile away.
From the field data the two “prospectors”
compile a detailed map, which is forwarded
to headquarters for correlation with many
other similar maps. Six-wlieeler lorries are
being used for the transport of provisions,
etc., to the men in the field; the lorries on
return bring in the rock and mineral samples
collected by the party. The remarkable
mineral developments in Northern Rhodesia
are largely due to this intense and scienti-
fically planned prospecting.
$ * * ♦


141
til
o*2?
TUNGSTONE’S GUARANTEED IMPROVED BATTERY FIGHTS FOR THE PURCHASER’S unfettered Rights to
buy a Battery Uncontrolled by a Trade Monopoly. Tungstone the Independent Battery of the British Empire.
TUNGSTONE’S PRACTICAL IMPROVEMENTS are based on working Principles free from Trade Prejudices and
Antiquated Manufacturing Methods. Made of British Empire Lead, British Invention and Workmanship.
TUNGSTONE HIGH-PRESSURE DIE-CAST
Plates owe their Impregnable Standard of Quality and Long Life to
PRACTICAL DAILY EXPERIENCE
In the Intricate Art of
High-Pressure Machine Die-Casting
Using Special Machines and Moulds of Unique Co i truction and Original Design.
Ihis Guarantee. Cannot be Given by
Ony Other Battery Tflaker in thVJoHd
TITWf STP A ME 1 HEAVIEST PLATES-LONGEST life
1 Ull \S\3 1 till El HIGHEST STORAGE CAPACITY
Copy of Illustrated House-Lighting Storage Battery or Illustrated Portable Car Battery Booklet Post Free .
Immediate delivery from Stocks can be given by: —
SYDNEY: A. J. Dawson, M.1.A.E., 91 William Street, Sydney.
MELBOURNE: Hocking & Hadden Pty., Ltd., 208 Latrobe Street.
BRISBANE: Brisbane Cars and Tractors, Ltd.. 324-28 Wickham
Street, Fortitude Valley.
PERTH: R. Little & Co., 33 Pier Street.
ADELAIDE: Mechanical Supplies, Ltd., Grenfell Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Aldridge Ltd., Hearne’s Buildings.
100 Dixon Street.
TUNGSTONE ACCUMULATOR
Telephone: CENTRAL 8156.
CO.. LTD., SALISBURY SQUARE, FLEET STREET, LONDON, E.C.4.
Cables : “DILUTUM, LONDON." Telegrams: “TYPIFY FLEET, LONDON."
TUNCSTONE- The INDEPENDENT BATTERY of the BRITISH EMPIRE


COSTLY CAR BEAUTY...
COSTLY CAR ENGINEERING
in the low-priced WHIPPET
m
OYERL A.ND
ftl
BmiinnflMnnnriinnnnniwaaiBsßS^B^gBBSBB»ggaBaaaiggßß«Biii«iigsKiiSiftfiasfiaaißS
r
25
lit
vW
Whippet Four Touring
LOWER COST
l
OF OPERATION
New "Finger-Tip Con-
trol ” a button at
centre of steering
wheel operates starter,
lights and horn.
'AtC
THE new Superior Whippet makes the beauty and
style of costly cars available at a low price.
Graceful lines, rich colours, longer bodies, higher
radiator and sweeping one-piece full crown mudguards
all contribute to Whippet’s trim, smart appearance.
In engineering, the new Superior Whippet can be
compared only to cars of much greater cost. Important
advantages include a higher compression engine, silent
timing chain, full force-feed lubrication, Nelson type
aluminium alloy invar-strut pistons, big four-wheel
brakes.
Dependable performance and low consumption of oil
and petrol make the new Superior Whippet a decidedly
economical car to operate. See the Whippet at your
nearest Willys-Overland dealer*
new su.petCo'L
TAe
WHIPPET FOUR
MESSRS. OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LTD.
62-70 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
MESSRS. OVERLAND VICTORIA PTY., LTD.,
117-121 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
MESSRS. OVERLAND SYDNEY, LTD.,
173-175 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
MESSRS. E. G. EAGER & SON, LTD.,
Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, Brisbane.
MESSRS. ADAMS MOTORS, LIMITED,
442 Murray Street, Perth.
MESSRS. H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.
53-63 Bathurst Street, Hobart.
NEW SUPERIOR WHIPPET FOURS AND SIXES


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic P.isk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
STONEWALL"
SHOES FOR MEN
Write Desk B for Catalogue.
Out-of-door Boot.
Super-quality
Grained Calf, 3-dec. Welted
Sole. Full Watertight Tongue,
Price, 60/-
Postage: 1/6: Interstate, 2/8
JACKSON'S C?
"STONEWALL’ stores
Cnr Pitt g Goulburn S ts Sydney
Build With
WUNDERLICH
Materials
Guard against faulty work
obtain the highest value by in-
sisting on Wunderlich Building
Materials, which include:—
Art Metal Ceilings, Terra Cotta
Roofing Tiles, Asbestos Cement
(DurabestosJ Building Sheets.
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Jimmy Dux” : Me and my mate got some
rabbit-ground off old John Smithbrown at
Warialda (N.S.W.), and while I made the
SOMETHING AHEAD OF TEACHER.
“Phase, Mr. Simmons, if you keep me in you’ll have to go and mind the baby for
mother.”
ramp ready Bill set out with about a pound
»f jam-and-arsenic, it being too late in the
[lay to start with the traps. He was back
in half an hour with his eyes nearly bulging
out of his head. “Quick!” he yells; “let's
pack up and get out o’ this!” “What’s up,
Bill?” I says. “Anything the matter?” “Too
right!” he says. “We’ve poisoned 70 blanky
goats, all of ’em Angoras and worth a fiver
each!” We were just sneaking off when
Smithbrown arrived. “Hullo,” he says, “leav-
ing already? What’s the matter?” “Oh,
nothing much,” says Bill, “only we didn’t
care for the catch we got last night.” “Hold
on,” says Smithbrown; “can you shoot?”
“Rather,” we replies in chorus. “Well,
there’s over 500 damned goats running here,
and as you can’t poison a goat, I’ll give you
2s. a time for their-scalps, and you can have
their skins. Any good to you?” We stayed.
* :!= * %
“Hayband”: The introduction of netting
fences had one totally unexpected result —
the wholesale slaughter of the frill lizard.
The frill is built on the barb principle. As its
owner applies pressure to force his way
through it flattens down. But immediately
on passing the mesh it becomes erect again,
and poor Frilly is trapped, being too bulky
to advance, and prevented from backing out
by his high collar.
“C. Coral”: Amongst the valu-
able shells of Torres Strait, from
the native standpoint, is the arm-
shell, or wauri, of cone-shaped
formation, which the islander col-
lects and sends to New Guinea in
exchange for canoes, sago, etc.
The shell is also sold for cash,
up to £lO being given for a good
specimen. The New Guinea pur-
chaser disposes of it to dusky
royalty, in the form of armlets;
the bottom portion, cut off: and
polished, also makes a breast
ornament much prized by the
chiefs. The arm-shell is found
along the Barrier and islands
adjacent, and when out collect-
ing it the islander always looks
out for pairs. “They always go
two together,” they say, “when
you see one you must not pick it
up until you look around and find
his mate.” In order to attract the
wauri the islanders, at low tide,
go out on the reefs with a pre-
paration of a native plant called
kusi-bager, which is chewed up
and then spat over the surface
of the water. “As soon as he
catch that smell, you see that
wauri come up from underneath
the sand, with his meat outside
the shell; then you can pick up easy.”
“Fat Bertha”: Kilani was an island boy
who accompanied my brother on a trip to
Sydney. As he had to be kept in sight, he
slept in the laundry, devoured large quantities
of rice and treacle on the lawn, and followed
my brother (at the required ten paces or
so behind) wherever he went. Up to this
time, the missionaries had been unable to
make any impression on Kilani, but after
a visit to the Tivoli he could hardly wait to
be baptised. Hadn’t he, with his own eyes,
seen an angel, a pink angel moreover, that
flew? Query: I don’t know bow the mis-
sionary squared it with his conscience to
admit a lost sheep into the fold on the
strength of a trapeze artist in pink tights,
but that was his business.
* * * *
“Keigho”: The other day I was an eye-
witness of a suicide. The principal in the
tragedy was a lizard, who was assailed by
several ants. When I came on the scene the
lizard was vainly endeavoring to rid himself
of his attackers, who practically covered his
writhing form. They ran from his head to
his tail, from one foot to another, viciously
nipping him at every opportunity. When I
approached, the poor creature, evidently
thinking I would torment him also, ran far
AND PROUD OF IT, TOO.
NURSE (to Jacky, awaiting admission ): “Got pyjamas, Jacky?”
JACKY: “No-o-o! Not that feller —doctor say mine gottem 'pen’icitis.”
enough to place himself well out of my reach.
Then evidently realising the futility of his
struggle against such odds, he made for a
small tree and banged his head against the
trunk until he was free from all earthly
worries.
* * * *
“Caractacus”: It seems strange in these
days of advanced civilisation that in Aus-
tralia men are still paying their store
accounts • in gold-dust and alluvial specks.
“Tucker shows” are being worked on most
old goldfields, once-rich centres that now do
not pay for exploitation
by mining companies, but
these usually possess
among the relics of past
greatness a general store
and a post office to attend
to the needs of hatters
and pensioners. Specking
shows up in river head-
waters and beyond the
anges do not, however,
enjoy these amenities.
The fossieker comes out
only at long intervals,
being supplied in the
meantime by the monthly
packer. I was such a
packer, and my accounts
were paid in gold raw
from the earth. All bills
had to he rendered in
ounces and pennyweights
troy as well as in £ s. d„
and I carried a gold-scale
with which to tell the
sums paid. These shows,
in far-eastern Vic., are a
five-hours’ horseback
journey away from any-
where, and the colony of
beardies, the troglodyte
mode of living and the system of barter in
gold make one wonder whether this year is
1849 or 1929.
* t■■ * *
“Wandi”: “Crows are cunnin’ devils all
right,” said my mate, squinting up from
the shade of a tree at a black scavenger over-
head. “Remember one day I was havin’ a
doss like this, an’ pretty soon there was
half a dozen crows in the branches peerin’
down at me an’ discussin’ my condition.
They shifted lower an’ lower, an’ by’n’by
one broke off a stick an’ dropped it down
on me to see if I was. dead. Then some of
them got down on the ground, an’ began to
sidle up to me with increasin’ confidence.
I didn’t move an eyelash. ‘Must be dead
all right,’ one old villain seemed to say ; but
when he was close up he got a bit nervous,
an’ was lookin’ all ways at once, an' wait nr
for his mates to go first. I looked st iff
enough, but didn’t smell dead. Anyhow, the
leader chanced it. He hopped on to me boots
an’ quarked softly to the other scamps One
of ’em jumped on to me leg; an’ he spoilt
the show. There was a hole in the knee o’
me pants, an’ the black swine made a dig at
it, which I wasn’t expectin’; an’ when the
corpse resurrected with a bellow and a.
leap, the cunnin’ crowd squawked with fright
an’ fell over themselves with astonishment.
I’ve always covered my head up since when
havin’ a daylight shut-eye in the open.”
* * * =!:
“Bourri”: My vote goes to supplejack as
Australia’s champion hard timber. I was
cutting belar for six months in ’2l, and
used the same axe until the day I sank it
into a big green supplejack. After the third
hit I rode home and got a new axe. As
far as I know the tree stil] stands. I think
it’s harder in the green state than ironwood
is in the dry—and that’s saying quite a lot,
as the latter was well named. Supplejack
in the dry state I haven’t tackled. I don’t
want to, while I’m buying my own axes.
* * * *
“E.S.S”: A useful little grub, which some-
what resembles an ant-lion, lurks at the
bottom of a straight hole, in hard ground,
less than l-16in. in diameter. In some dis-
tricts clear patches of ground are pitted with
many of these small holes. Whenever an ant
runs over one of them a pair of strong nip-
pers dartsi out and seizes it. Something the
ant gets away with the loss of a leg, but
usually its adventures end there. Boys
amuse themselves fishing for the lurking grub
with straws. The occupant of the pit bites
savagely at the end of the tormenting straw,
and is jerked to the surface. Then two of
them arc set together and they fight like little
bulldogs. But it is a sacrifice of one of
Nature’s provisions for the restriction of
ants.
* * * *
“Pfella”: Miles inland in certain man-
grove areas in the Gulf country the turn of
the tide makes itself manifest. From hun-
dreds of tiny mudholes comes a thin whining
sound which soon develops into a hissing
whistle. Here and there a small quantity
of clear water rises out of a hole and spreads
over the slippery surface." Larger holes
begin to bubble, some groaning, some hissing
and whispering. Little bright-red crabs dis-
appear like a flash, and for a brief period a
horrible smell arises. This passes away, and
presently little pools of water appear. Gradu-
ally the mangrove flat becomes a sheet of
water.
(Continued on page 25.)
FAILURE AT FORTY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I served my time to a dead-end trade.
Machines are making the things I made,
And times are bad, but I ain’t afraid,
I’ve been at the game too long.
I never was one to blow, you know;
Always a beggar to go, you know;
But things have happened—just so, you
know,
And it seeips they have happened wrong.
Always a sort of a ne’er-do-well,
Bit of a rolling stone as well;
Sometimes it hurts, and it hurts like Hell,
But I never did whine at all.
I never was over-meek, you see.
No turning the other check for me.
But barely a feed this week, you see,
So I’m fighting against the wall.
I try to make little and light of it,
The curse of the day and night of it,
And damned if I see the right of it
For a man has a right to live.
Never a fellow to sob, that’s true
1 wish I could find a job, I do.
Happen you’ll lend me a bob or two—
And it’s harder to ask than give.
Sort of a casual rouseabout,
A bit of junk the machines kicked out;
Failure at forty without a doubt,
And what’ll the end of it be?
A tiger to work, I’ll say I was,
So will the boss in wdiose pay I was;
But, I can’t get a job no way because—
God help me ! I’m fifty-three.
No sort of luck comes along to me,
There’s never a soul belongs to me,
And the whole damn world seems wrong
to me,
And I’d hate it over again.
I'm frayed in the seam and sleeve, I am.
I'm short of the joy of life, I am.
I’m wishing for twelve years' leave I am—
I’ll be dead or pensioned then.
N.S.W.
E.W. O'BRIEN.


oQ- %
jmwMf' S'lsitsi
, Iflkfcfef m y i fiAf!
m
l,y //, 'v- '!, , mint b
iH»n
v fife. ElUißrvr
|Ljhf f#j..
II M
%{ -DUN LOP TYRES
? ifJ l
r ?4.<0
S --~- .
=ll-
n
\/
#i
t(sn
fufy'X _i£
mp& *£UJ
>os
ftm,
. \
a ran
sit
M
r»A, *
s»« ;
> mi—
--d%&
\ 42s#
11
((
*4
' C
-
V r-d? ~
W
8.000
-because motorists remember!
Because so many motorists remember the pleasing
mileage and trouble-free service they invariably
obtain from tyres made by Dunlop and tell
their motoring friends of their really satisfactory
experience—the call for more Dunlop throughout
Australia is insistent and ever growing.
Quick to appreciate that a large percentage of
motorists prefer Dunlop the number of Aus-
tralian garages and tyre houses that have decided
to stock “ the tyre that pleases” has grown and
grown in a remarkable manner.
Because of this increase the familiar “ 5000
Garages Stock Dunlop,” which has in the past
figured at the foot of our announcements has
now to be altered, in accordance with fact, and
in future will read
8000 Garages Stock Dunlop!
Such a wide-spread reflex of the good work
Dunlop is doing on Australian roads is indeed
recognition of Dunlop quality and craftmanship
—and also an assurance to those in need of
tyres that Dunlop Service pleases.
r
I
<(!®
i
■■
1
■
i
i
i
m
S3*
S3®


PEAPES
clothe men AND their sons.
Everything at PEAPES is in
keeping with the policy of
QUALITY, VALUE and SER-
VICE which PEAPES origi-
nated so many years ago and
which they still rigidly maintain.
Yet, at PEAPES, one can
always buy at a DEFINITELY
low price, as PEAPES have not
to make provision for periodical
“reductions”—for PEAPES do
not conduct “sales.”
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
p vji
THE GREYS
SIZE nT WO
SILKCUT VIRGINIA
DRAP
EYS
1® for CIGARETTES 2® for £/&
They Satisfy
because they are made from 100
per cent, pure Virginia tobacco,
thoroughly matured. “Greys”
have a reputation they cannot
afford to lose; they are therefore
consistent in their perfect quality.
“Greys” protect your palate and
leave no after taste. Let your
next smoke be a “GREYS.”
Of course you
know “Greys
Heavyweights’’
are now 1/- for
10; 2b for 20.
The
Weight
of your
Rabbit
Skins
may total lb., cwts. or
tons, but the largest cheque
possible is wanted, what-
ever the quantity may be.
Send your Rabbit, Fox and
other skins to
o
• k
1 •'
! W
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD
and secure it. They have one service for all clients
the best. And their capable work as salesmen
constantly produces top values, accurate and prompt
returns. Offices:
WINCHCOMBE HOUSE and
BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY,
99-101 EAGLE ST-
BRISBANE.
“Fercy Pawnticket”: In the days when
abos. were still to be seen wandering in the
Sydney streets, King Billy was a well-known
personality. He was barefooted, but a ragged
frock-coat and a battered top-hat proclaimed
the dignity of his office. He had authority,
too, for I saw him intervene in a quarrel
between two other abos. over a found three-
pence, and, having settled the matter,
pocketed the coin as his seignorial perquisite.
Another time I saw him accosting passers-
by asking for change for sixpence. Someone
made him a donation of twopence, and with
regal dignity Billy walked across to a shabby
street musician who had not been getting
much attention, and put the coppers in his
hat. This unexpected act of benevolence
stirred the imagination and sympathy of
onlookers, and coin commenced to pour into
the musician’s lid. I discovered later that
King Billy and the fiddler had a sort of part-
DETAINED.
“Heigh, tell mum to put me dinner in the oven.”
nership. The little stunt I had witnessed
was staged regularly, the abo. getting a cut
from the takings. It was probably this
money which gave Billy the wherewithal for
those alcoholic excesses which finally caused
the police to warn him —and other ahos. —
off the streets.
“Hamer”: A Woollalira (Sydney) friend
of mine, living in a house with a good extent
of grounds, kept a snake which showed signs
of affection and intelligence. It answered
promptly to its master’s call, and used
to meet him when, coming home, he whistled
at the gate. The tradespeople became quite
nsed to it. But one morning a new milkboy
came on the run who knew nought of the
serpent. With the morning in his heart and
the latest song-catch on his lips, he started
buoyantly down the drive. Mr. Snake liked
the lilt, and responded to what he deemed a
friendly call. The milkboy stiffened with
horror w-lien he saw the reptile slithering
towards him; then there was a crash of
abandoned milkeans, and 2-ssec. later a very-
scared youth hurdled the gate and ran for
his life.
* * * *
“F.A.”: The abo. lingo has probably not
contributed much to our vocabulary, but
there are nevertheless a few w-ords in every-
day use that can be
traced back to
Binghi and his first
contact with the
white man. A
much- accredited
work on primitive
culture, published
about 60 years ago,
gives the Austra-
lian abo. the credit
for the introduction
of two current
words, “pup,” in
the sense “a young
whelp,” and also ot
the depreciative
“pooh-pooh.” “Pup”
was used by Slmk-
speare, but only as
a term of contempt
for a young boun-
der. These words
were apparently
taken from tribes
of the east coast,
districts, and do
not correspond
with those of the
far west or of South
Australia. Incident-
ally, I have never
heard it remarked
that many abo.
tribes took their
names from the
words they used for
“yes” and “no,”
e.g., the Kamilaroi,
Gureang, Kog a i,
Walaroi and Wara-
tharoi on the nega-
tive side, and the
Pikambul among
the ayes. “Kamil,” “goure” or “gure” and
“wal” were as well known a few years
back as abo. negatives as was “pika” as an
affirmative.
“James II.”: “James B.” (B. 8/5/’29) is
wrong in saying the Perth bridge (Tas.) has
withstood the ravages of floods for 92 years.
The flood of 1853 swept away two of the
main piers.
* * * *
“Copabella” : Every now and then appears
an account of the almost womanly
completeness and neatness of the man-
batcher's camp or
hut. He generally
has almost as many
cookery gadgets as
a hotel chef. I was
for a time offsider
to a lone-wolf
drover who reduced
a cookery outfit to
the other extreme.
He carried only a
boundary - rider’s
quart and an
eight-inch iron fry-
pan. The one did
all the boiling that
was done, the other
all the frying. He
fried flapjacks for
bread and he fried
all meat, whether
fresh or salt. When
he camped where
kero-tins or buc-
kets were available
iie had a fairly big
boil of meat, and
then, until it was
all eaten, fried
slices of that. Such
cooking ought to
be the death of
him, but at 89
(when I saw him
last) he was still
doing it, assisting the process by drinking
his tea black and acid-strong.
* * * *
“P.M.” : No bushman can say he has seen
cold country if he hasn’t been in the South
Gippsland hills. At Blackwarry it is so
cold that it is a common thing for the
cattle to break their ribs shivering. The
creeks which run from the tops of the hills,
2000 ft. up, down to the gullies, freeze in
winter, and the settlers have to dig blocks
of ice out and throw them to the cattle
to lick. A few years ago a newchum from
Q’land was employed on a Blackwarry farm,
and was sent out with a pick to get water
for the cows. He shivered so violently that
a box of wax matches in his pocket caught
fire and he w-as burned to death. The sur-
rounding scrub caught fire, the creek began
to thaw, and blocks of partly-melted ice
crashed down into the gullies below, killing-
half the cows there. The other half were
scalded to death soon afterwards by the boil-
ing water that poured over the rocks through
the burning scrub. *
“Tee Essbie”: Eighteen months ago, at
Tahmoor (N.S.W.), I met Lydia Ashcroft, a
lady known to most people in the dis-
tricts surrounding Picton, Tliirlmere and
Bargo, w-here she has spent all her life and
NOT SO BAD AS THAT.
“My dear man, was it craving for drink that brought you here?”
“Do I look such a blinkin’ mug as to mistake a gaol for a pub?”
where she has engaged in every sort of hard
toil that is going. When I met her she was
cutting slabs to be used in timbering mine-
shafts and tunhels. She had then been at
that job for two or three years. She takes
contracts, and occasionally employs local
men. They must be badly in need of a job;
none of them will work for her if they can
find anything else to do—they can’t keep
up with her. She is years past the half-
century, too.
s’: * * *
“AdeL.” : Many species of birds place their
little cradles under the protection of the
larger birds of prey. At least half a dozen
of the smaller species in the Far North
seek abandoned hawks’ nests as protecting
roofs to their tiny
chalets, and some
• of the finches love
to rear their broods
in colonies right
under Ma Eagle’s
surveillance. Once
I counted 37 banded
finches’ (Stcgano-
pleura bichcnorii)
nests, rough, oval-
sliaped, hooded
structures of
pepper-grass, stuck
anyhow between the
sticks of the huge
three - storeyed
castle of an eagle.
All nests were oc-
cupied with young,
and the little
parents fluttered
to and fro and
around the queen
eagle, sitting in
the top chamber,
while often his
majesty came to
sit by, looking pla-
cidly upon the
little creatures’
antics. Near by,
upon the main fork
of a river gum,
was another struc-
ture of huge sticks,
but flatter and
wider, the mansion
of the stately jabi-
ru; it too was
occupied by its owner, but none of the feath-
ered clan thought to nestle under her lady-
ship’s roof, nor were any flying close to her.
Maybe they knew the jabiru’s fondness for
solitude.
$ $ $ $
“Bad Australian”: When I am no longer
able to withstand the slings and arrows of
outrageous fortune I shall hie me to Boo-
rooloola, spi-ead my pavilion by the more or
less pellucid waters of the Gulf, and solace
my declining years with the dolce jar niente
of that drowsy clime and the hospitality -
the Boorooloolans and the denizens o
circumjacent wilderness. There is bread
(a little) work for all in Boorooloola ; bu
man lives not by bread alone, the 800
loolans, aided by a paternal Government an
an occasional tarpaulin muster, have estan
lished a library that is regarded (in Booroo-
loola) as the most comprehensive aggregation
of mental pabulum in the Far North. Almo
every Boorooloolan is ready to fax tfae stre -
ger with his glittering eye, and discourse at
length on such subjects as the code or lvn
Kammurabi, the basic causes of the rail or
the Ming dynasty and the trickier points at
Einstein’s theory of relativity: so t m . ie
hang but lightly on my hands, and I shal
down the last long road enveloped in an aura
of erudition and the sound of intellectua
disputation. There is, of course, a pub.
“Mango”: North Australia takes its civil
isation somewhat tardily. In January of
this year, 50 armed aboriginals from north
of the Roper Mission Station went over to
Groote Eylandt Station “to wipe out the
Mission and steal the stores and Mission
girls”—-their own expressed intention. At-
tacking the camp just outside Groote Station,
they speared several of the mission abos.,
leaving one of them still alive, hut cut almost
into strips, screaming on the beach. At the
approach of the two missionaries from the
Groote Station, in an old Ford car, they
decamped, leaving behind the 40 women and
children whom they had intended to carry
off. Langford Smith, of the Itoper River
Mission Station, puts it very mildly when
he describes this particular tribe of marau-
ders as a “really bad lot.”
:!: * * *
“AdeL.”: The sole representative of a one-
time powerful mountain tribe, a favorite
with white stockmen, was Spade, King of
Widdallion. Times were hard with Spade;
all his sons gone working on stations ; gone
were his daughters, too, married and far
away; only his one-time favorite gin was
left, now too old, too ugly for trading. Thus
was Spade compelled to embark upon a new-
matrimonial venture to keep up the old
traditions. He married flat-nosed, moon-
like faced but pretty Ninette, a princess of
high rank, a daughter of King Peter, the
chieftain of a neighboring salt-water tribe.
Aged 13 at the most was she, but a well-
developed, much-souglit-after belle. An in-
corrigible flirt she was, moreover. Too many
were her lovers, too many her clandestine
meetings with them. Spade knew better than
to harm her while near the station. To fight
her lovers, powerful young station bucks, was
unthinkable. But one day he and his young
bride went bush, and for many weeks no-
thing was heard of them. In a far-away
desert, amidst stunted scrubs and pudding
stones, pretty Ninette’s remains are hidden
for ever. How she died is the well-guarded
secret of the crafty old king. When Spade
returned to the station alone he had a tale
SHE DIDN’T EVEN HAVE THE POT ON.
“It’s no good. Eustace, you will have to get out of the habit of
bringing people for lunch unexpectedly.”
of woe to pour forth. His white friends were
sorry to hear of his bereavement, showering
many titbits of luxury over the old rogue
to cheer him up. Not so did the black stock-
men, who guessed foul play. Secret investi-
gations were set going by them, which, within
a few w-eeks, culminated in a corroboree, at
which judgment was passed on the old king-
in his absence. Two days later the most hor-
rible penalty in the blackfellows’ code had
been carried out. Spade had been blinded
for ever. t
DESERTED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sighing low, sighing low, all the evening
breezes go
Round the flowering cherry-trees and the
pear-trees’ faery wall
Where the petals drift in showers down a
chain of starry hours,
All along the weed-grown way where no
footsteps fall.
Where are they that used to pass? Some are
underneath the grass,
Some gone east and some gone west, across
the changing years.
All alone the pine-trees keep vigil on the
skyline steep;
All alone the tangled rose scatters silver
tears.
In the hush of early spring still the mottled
thrushes sing,
Shyly to the dawn star, softly to the eve;
Still the fringing wattle-gold fires the gully’s
sombre fold.
Still the winds wake laughter, and the
waters grieve.
In the garden wildernesses how the eerie
silence presses.
Past the broken doorways surely ghosts
must roam ;
Surely wraiths will turn the handle, lifting
high a starry candle,
Drifting through the shadowy halls that
once were home.
Now the old grey bush comes creeping, taking
back her own for keeping;
Trails the winding supplejack along the
leafy Avays.
Where the blossoms once were star-like,
spreads the purple thistle warlike,
Crowding up the pathway Avhere the
slender sapling sways.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers. .
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover ot
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons. . . ,
The right of selection and rejection is reserwu.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Active farmer required to lease or farm on shares,
60 acres good cabbage and potato country, N.S.W.;
plant available, must have own capital—69B.
Young man, N.S.W., drive any car or truck, fair
mechanic, experienced in pipe laying, pumps and
windmills, wants position country. Sober. Kefs.
—659.
Young man (23), ex-G.P.S. boy, wants position
on Queensland, N.S.W. or Vic. station, five years’
city commercial exp., good book-keeper, understands
anil can drive car, used to country. Refs. —657.
Competent young man wants dairy farm on shares,
Murruinbidgee or Murray dairy districts (N.S.W.).
Machine or hand. —681.
Englishwoman (36), typist, secretary and trained
nurse, can drive car, give services any capacity
during and after voyage to England return for
passage. Good knowledge of places of interest. —680.
Scotchman (35), S. Aus., single, competent book-
keeper and storekeeper, can control staff, exp. Islands
and South America, wants position anywhere, Islands
preferred.—66B.
Young lady (20), N.S.W., two years’ hospital
nursing experience, wants position as companion to
elderly lady.—669.
Qualified accountant end secretary (34), present
employed in responsible position with large Sydney
co., wants similar position Melbourne. —764.
Young lady, Vic., graduate, musical, literary,
used country, wants position in Q’land. Successful
; eacher. —766.
Trustworthy young man, N.S.W., seeks employment
in country anywhere, houseman, handyman, gardener,
can cook, refs.—762.
Young Oxford graduate wants holiday tutorship
next December and January, S.A. preferred. Nominal
salary. —671.
Unemployed Sydney man wants country work.
Used to all kinds of farm and station machinery,
first-class car and lorry driver; can do own repairs ;
will take on anything.—7l2.
Station manager, Vic., returned soldier, married,
take any position, Q’land experience, good mechanic,
refs.—76o.
Lady, middle-aged, Sydney, wants position house-
keeper to widower or bachelor, country preferred.
Trustworthy.—7ls.
Lady, N.S.W., domesticated, wants position on
station. —724.
Retired bank manager, Sydney, good health, wants
office employment.—723.
Station overseer, Vic., higli-school education,
Dookie diploma, three years’ practical exp. sheep
and wheat, wants position, salary or share. —756.
By young Englishman (21), N.S.W., English
public-school education, position, anything, anywheve;
not afraid hard work; some exp. as clerk, station
worker and on bridge work. Urgent.—749.
Country museum, S.A., offers best prices for native
cats, native moles and other small marsupials. Skins,
carcases for skeletons, and skulls, or in spirit.—72B.
Young lady, living on land, like to correspond
with readers living on stations and in other parts of
the world. —731.
To correspond with Bulletin readers, about 22.
(To Pte. J. Hosie, 2nd Batt. Duke of Wellington’s
Regt., Sandhurst Barracks, Ahmednagar, India.)
Young lady (27), residing on Vie. station, like
correspond with educated Bulletin readers.- —718.
Lady (24) wishes correspond with readers inter-
ested in verse-craft or general literature.- —701.
Young Australian girl like correspond with Eng-
lish-speaking girls in China, Mexico or Islands.- 672.
Young lady (19), N.S.W., like correspond with
Bulletin readers, 20-25 —690.
Lady, S. Aus., like correspond with first-class
student of Australian history who will assist in
gathering data. —694.
Lady (24), Vic., like correspond with Bulletin
readers interested in music and dancing.—69s.
To buy book dealing with bowls, entitled, “Two
Years a Champion.”—6BB.
To buy copy Baron Richthofen’s “The Red Air
Fighter.” (To H. L. Chisholm, 9 Palm-grove,
Wellington, M.L.)
To buy complete volumes of Smith Wylie’s
Journals, published since 1924. —763.
Words of Gray’s “Elegy.”—722.
Whereabouts of Lance Skuthorp.—666.
Whereabouts of James Reid, motor mechanic, last
heard of at Upper Grady’s Creek, N.S.W. —673.
Whereabouts of Miss Mary Mc-Giveran, last heard
of at Woollahra, Sydney. (To Miss O’Brien, Tre-
lawney, Gilgandra, N.S.W.)
Information Sought.
1, a joiner, in Sydney, desire to better
myself in my work with the object of leav-
ing tool-work behind me. What can I do?
562. . .
See Mr. A. H. Martin, lecturer-m-charge,
Building Trades Section, Sydney Technical
College, Ultimo. He will help you to select
one of many excellent trade courses pro-
vided for journeymen. There is a special
course for men wishing to qualify for build-
ing foremen and clerks of works. If you
can’t attend night classes, _ although this
course is advisable, get in touch with
officer-in-charge of correspondence courses
at same college and ask for particulars con-
cerning their Building, Construction and
Carpentry and Joinery courses. Meantime
join the Sydney Municipal Library, where
a wide range of helpful textbooks can be
got.
(1) Steps necessary to secure cancella-
tion of a second, mortgage in N.S.W. after
principal and outstanding interest has been
paid? (2) Name of officer and addressT
<■',) Is a, lawyer’s aid necessary to lodge
documents ? —514.
(1) Apply to second mortgagee to sign
the discharge on the mortgage, then apply
to first mortgagee to lodge certificate of
title at Lands Titles Office to enable dis-
charge of second mortgage to be registered.
When it has been lodged, lodge discharge
of second mortgage for registration. (-)
Lands Titles Office, Queen’s Square, Syd-
ney. (3) Not necessary, but it will save
you time and worry.
(1) May cigarettes be manufactured for
sale by anybody? (2) Has excise duty to
be paid on manufactured cigarettes in addi-
tion to the import duty paid on the tobacco
■used? What amount? (3) Import duty on
imported' cigarette paper and cartons i (4)
Import duty on cut tobacco? —-523.
(1) Tobacco, cigars and cigarettes can
only be made by manufacturers licensed
under the Excise Act, and covered by Cus-
toms security. All licensed factories are
controlled by Dept, of Trade and Customs.
(2) Yes. Hand-made cigarettes, 7s. per lb.,
excise duty; machine-made cigarettes, 7s. 3d.
per lb. (3) Cigarette paper: 35 p.c.
United Kingdom. 45 per cent, foreign. (It
used by a licensed manufacturer in the
manufacture of cigarettes, it is free of
duty.) Cartons: printed, Sd. per lb. U.K.
and lOd. per lb. foreign; or 35 p.c. U.K.
and 45 p.c. foreign, whichever rate returns
the higher duty. Plain, 35 p.c. U.K., .45
p.c. foreign. (4) For fine cut: 11s. 6d. per
lb. U.K., 12s. per lb. foreign. For cut tobacco
other than fine cut: ss. 7d. per lb. U.K. and
foreign.
(1) Will I need a passport to travel to
N./j.? (2) Must I have an income-tax
clearance? (3) Fare {'2nd class) ? ( 4)
Prospect of obtaining work there? —518:
(1) Not unless you are a foreigner. (2)
Arrangements will have to be made about
payment of any income-tax due before you
will be allowed to travel. (3) £lO to
£ll. (4) There is some unemployment in
Maoriland, though not much. It would be
unwise to proceed there without securing a
position beforehand.
Can sufficient protection of an invention
be secured under the Designs Act instead of
the more costly Patent? —504.
No. Registration under the Designs Act
gives" protection to the appearance only of
an article ; that is, to its shape or configura-
tion, pattern or ornamentation as the case
may be. Protection of an invention under
the Patents Act is very much wider. Be-
cause a device is registerable as a design
it does not necessarily follow that it is
patentable, and vice versa, though some may
constitute good subject matter for protection,
as patents and designs. Expert advice of
a patent attorney should be obtained.
(1) Could a boy, 15, become a midship-
man in the R.A.N.? (2) What are the
various branches of the R.A.N. for which
recruits are needed, and where can full
particulars about each branch be obtained?
(1) Too old; the entry of cadet midship-
men to Jervis Bay is restricted to those
who reach 13 in the calendar year during
which they sit for the entrance exam. (2)
Vacancies occur for seamen, wireless opera-
tors, signalmen, writers (clerks), engineers,
stokers, electricians, ordnance artificers,
shipwrights, joiners, painters, blacksmiths,
plumbers, cooks, stewards, butchers, bands-
men and sick-berth attendants. For full
particulars see “How to Join the 8.A.N.,
obtainable from District Naval Officer,
Naval Staff Office, Edward-street, Brisbane.
(1) What do newsagents pay for Sydney
daily papers? (2) What profit do they
make on 15,000 dailies. (3) Is. a news-
agency a sound business investment? (4)
What is a sub newsagent? (5) Shop-
rental? How are deliveries effected and is
any extra charge made for such? (6)
Charges in connection with the cash pur-
chase of a £9OO house? —503.
(1) 9d. per dozen, less 5 or 7| p.c. for
weekly cash payments. (2) £l5 _l2s. 6d.,
not including discount. (3) Yes, if bought
well and run efficiently, though most of them
are over-capitalised. (4) A sub news-
agent is a person generally with a small
shop, appointed by the main agent. He
generally receives 121 p.c. on papers sold,
which must only be retailed over the counter
—generally as a side-line. (5) Rents vary
from £3 10s. to £6 per week. Almost every
newsagent sells stationery, fancy goods,
tobacco, toys, etc. The morning delivery is
generally done by motor-car or a horse-
drawn vehicle; afternoon distribution, if
done at all, by boys. A delivery fee of Id.
per week is charged customers. (6) Trans-
fer registration, 12s. 6d.; stamp duty,
£6 155.; search fee, 6s. 6d.; solicitor’s fees,
£5 ss. Total £l2 19s.
(1) Pay of Vic. police constables? (2)
What is the training? (3) Age limit, and
is a married' man eligible to join mounted
police? —£lo4.
(1) On appointment or probation and
during first year of service, 12s. Id. per day;
theuce by annual increments to 16s. lid.
per day after 22 years’ service. Married
constables living out of barracks receive
quarters, fuel and light allowance of 2s. per
day. Single constables reside in quarters.
Both receive a uniform allowance of 6d.
per day. (2) Recruits undergo a three
months’" course —general education, police
duties, physical drill, etc. (3) Between 20
and 27: except returned soldiers or returned
naval men enlisted from Australia who are
eligible up to 35. Married men are eligible.
1 have repaired car for client, who has
not taken delivery. It occupies room in
rented shop. Could I charge storage? —7ss.
Give him written notice to remove the
car within a stated time and say that if not
removed you will eject it from your premises
at his risk: or that you will charge him
rental— whichever alternative you choose.
I bought land in a N.B.W. municipality.
A. council built up the street, altering the
natural lay of land, causing water to lie
on my ground. Remedy? —736a.
You can proceed against the council for
damage done to your land by its act 01
default, or you may apply for a mandamus
to compel it to supply drainage.
Best six investments listed on Sydney
Stock Exchange?— 7so. . .
Dozens of such questions come in and
they can't be answered. The six best for
a young man who can make a recovery it lie
loses, and is prepared to take large risks in
return for large rewards, are very dif-
ferent from the six best for an elderly widow
with no other resources. The best for a
person of small means is not the best tor
a wealthy person to whom income-tax
means so much. This week the Service
Department -was asked to recommend a sub-
scriber something safer even than Common-
wealth stock —which shows that in excep-
tional cases even our best are not sate
enough, and therefore (from that point of
view) not good enough.
Educational qualifications necessary for
a cadet with a N.S.W. licensed surveyor.
Length of service necessary before sitting
for final exam? —521. .
lie must have passed the Leaving Certi-
ficate exam, in English, Maths. 1 and 11
and a further subject, and must serve four
years in work satisfactory to the Surveyors
Board before, the final exam. Write to Sec-
retary, Surveyors’ Board, Lands Dept., Syd-
ney, for regulations, etc.
Arc gardeners and usefuls permanently
employed in. N.S.W. entitled to annual holi-
days?—-485.
Not if employed about a private home in
N.S.W., but such an employee in a boarding-
house is' entitled to holidays every six
months for as many public holidays as lie
may have worked during such six months.
How can 1 become a mining surveyor?
Could I maintain myself at mining work
while I studied? What wages could I expect?
I am a Queensland youth. —3ol.
Start at underground work as trucker or
mullocker. Wages for this vary (in Q.)
from Is. 7}d. to 2s. 4{d. per hour. Apply
to Mount Tsa Mines, Limited, or Mount
Elliott, Limited, via Cloneurry, the principal
metalliferous concerns operating at present.
Maoriland co. offered for sale cum. pref.
shares. After paying three dividends it
ceased to make payments, and, later cum.
rights were taken away and the rate of div.
reduced. 1 cannot get balance-sheets. What
proceedings should I take? —515-
Complain to Registrar of Companies. A
statement of accounts, balance-sheet and
directors’ report should have been posted to
vou before each annual meeting. Your other
rights as a shareholder are very fully covered
by the M.L. Companies Act, 1008 (consoli-
dated), and if you combine with other share-
holders you will have the choice of several
legal remedies. You have a right to inspect
the register of shareholders at the office of
the co.
How to clean white xylonite ware?— 433.
Wash in hot, soapy water containing a
little cloudy ammonia and remove as much
dirt as possible with a light brush. Com-
plete cleaning with a damp flannel dipped
in salt, and rinse in clear warm water.
How could a N.S.W. country resident best
study philosophy and psychology? —2o3.
It is difficult to begin an undirected study
of these two subjects. In some country
towns, where a competent tutor is available,
university tutorial classes have been estab-
lished in conjunction with the Workers’ Edu-
cational Assoc. Mr. D. Stewart, Secretary
W.E.A., Education Buildings, Sydney, might
help. Alternatively, if independent reading
only is possible, start with Bertrand Rus-
sell’s “Problems of Philosophy,” Woodworth’s
“Psychology” and Macßae’s “Psychology and
Education” —all obtainable from leading-
booksellers.
How to remove tea-stains from (1) linen,
(2) china teacups? —36l.
(1) If fresh stretch over a basin, and pour
boiling water on them. Eor dry stains,. soak
for an hour in very hot water containing a
liberal dash of cloudy ammonia, and boil
with good soap. If very obstinate, borax
may be added to the,boiling. (2) Rub with
a damp cloth dipped in salt.
(1) Is the bull-terrier a cross or pure
bred? (2) Is he safe with children? (3)
Name and address of Sydney bull-terrier
breeder? (4) Gan the staghound be trained
to kill dingoes ar<d foxes?— 4l9.
(1 > A cross between bulldog and smooth
terrier; now, however, an established breed
and has long been recognised as such. (2)
He is very powerful and at times pugnacious,
but if properly handled and brought up from
puppv stage with children, he should not
be dangerous. (3) A. F. Birrell, Shirley,
O’Connor-avenue, Ryde. (4) Yes.
Best method of washing velvet? —383.
Old-fashioned velvet should be dry cleaned.
The newer velvets may be dipped up and
down in warm suds made from pure soap,
and laid to dry on a sheet after rinsing
in clear warm water. They should not be
rubbed, squeezed or wrung, and while drying
should be frequently turned and set into
shape. Drying must be done out of direct
sunlight. If pressing appears necessary
when dry, lay the material face downwards
on a very thick soft blanket, and pass, a
warm iron over the surface in one direction
only, giving scarcely any pressure. A petrol
bath usually gives better results than Wash-
ing. . *
In 1894 A and B, two partners, sold a
iv.-b. house, on condition that same would
be removed when they wanted the land. A
died 28 years ago intestate and B had Ms
half share transferred to me (A’.s brother).
Can I do anything after 35 years ?—s66.
On information so scant it is difficult to
advise. Assuming you are now. as A’s
next of kin and by the transfer of B s
interest to yon. the sole owner of the land
and desire to shift the house off it, then,
assuming it to have had an occupant in
continuous occupation for 20 years, you may
be met by a claim of adverse possession
should your land be held under the old form
of title, though not so if held under what is
popularly known as Torrens title.
Does Anybody Know ?
How to teach a dog to bark when working
sheep?—7sl.
Brief Answers. •
F.N.S.: (1) Don’t know it. (2) About
fifth or sixth... .S.F.F.: Leave it alone G.W.S.:
Not listed; easy to buy but darned hard to sell
Edward C.: (1) Only by private negotiation. The
secretary might have a buyer. (2) Capital paid
as at June 30 last. £184,361. At that time the
co. had about £37,000 liquid; a trifle over £30,000
had been spent in flotation etc. ; the balance was
in land, plant, etc. Productive stage has not yet
been reached. Competition in the business is very
keen. Incidentally, the management is not com-
municative A. 5.1.: Current History, 229 West
43rd-street, New York. Others are Our World,
American Review of Reviews and World’s Work.
A.R.W.: (1) Commonwealth Patent l-ecords may
be searched at Trade Marks Sub-office, Customs House,
Brisbane; British, U.S.A., Canadian and New Zealand
records at the Patent Office, Melbourne. Patent
searching being an expert matter, it is wise to
instruct a patent attorney to do it. (2) About
£l2O. (3) Both reports are out of stock and are
unobtainable except by advertising R.E.C.: The
words are Latin. If they mean anything, which we
doubt, it is: “[He] who touches me with [hisl
voice hears my [voice]”... .A.C.: (1) Don’t know
the word; possibly it should be “Samhain, a
Celtic feast of the departing sun, held on November
I. (2) See II Samuel, chapter i, verses 19 and
20. (3) In solitaire cribbage you deal eight cards
eac h time —three for your hand, two for your crib,
three for your hand. The game is to see how' many
times you liave to run through the pack before
scoring 91. The four cards left over each time
round arc counted. If you play solitaire crib two-
handed, the score is 61. (One coupon one question,
please. Questions on different subjects have to be
submitted to different authorities, and each .should
have its own index number to facilitate record.).
J. ; Angus and Robertson, Dymocks or N.S.W.
Bookstall Co. —all Sydney D.K.H.; Get in touch
with W. Elgar, Sydney Arcade, King-street, Sydney.
. ...W.H.: (1) £2 9s. (2) N 0... .W.F.H.: Public
Library of N.S.W. suggests “Outline of Literature
and Art,” by John Drinkwater and Sir Wm. Orpen
(526. 6d.) ; “Outline of Science,” by .1. A. Thom-
son (635.) ; “Outline of History” (635.), and “Short
History of the World,” by H. G. Wells (155.)
B. : Several are doing that work in Sydney Muni-
cipal Fish Market; we cannot recommend any par-
ticular one. Visit the market before 9 a.m. and
choose R.F.: Write to Philip Pring and Docker,
Q. N. Bank Chambers, Sydney, and ask for their
“Guide to Eastern Tin Stocks”... .A.8.D.: Expose
the stumps to the weather, then burn when in a
suitable condition. Boring holes and filling with
kerosene would not materially assist. .. .E.A.F..
Write A. W. Dye, Ltd., 219 lilizabeth-street, Sydney.
F.E.J.: A heavy baritone... .T.J.W. (and other
Tagerim lucerne inquirers): Will take some time;
investigations are being made in New Zealand
C. : Katoomba (N.S.W.), mean winter temp.,
43.2 Fahr.; lowest, 26.5 Fahr. Toronto, mean
winter temp., 13.9 Fahr.; lowest 26 deg. below
zero. ...H.A.: (1) Not universally accepted; there
is a body of scientific and religious opinion opposed
to the theory. (2) Firmly established. (3) Depends
largely upon the attitude of educational authorities ,
as yet it is only taught in a few advanced institu-
tions. (4) Charles Darwin’s “Origin of Species”
T.L.C.: Can’t identify from your description, ■ but
it sounds like “For the Term of His Natural Life,
by Marcus Clarke... .W.P.G.; (1) There are lenders
who will advance on building blocks, holding the
deeds as security, but cannot recommend any par-
ticular one. Would not a Savings Bank mortgage
be possible? (2) By registered post; an acknow-
ledgment of delivery can be. obtained by paying
extra postage. (3) Lands Title Office, Queen’s-
square, Sydney. (4) Within 11 miles; the load is
not completed yet.... J.A.M.: Too long to reprint.
Write Department of Civil Aviation, Melbourne, for
“Regulations as to Pilots’ Licenses” H.H.M.C.;
“Scenario Writing To-day” (95.), Dymocks. Advent
of the “Talkies” will necessitate revision of text-
books on scenario writing. Better wait. Produceis
are sure to want scenarios presented in a new form
now P.H.: (1) In the event of intestacy, half
would go to the husband and half to the next of
kin. (2) Yes, she could do so. .. .F.J.H.: Write
Secretary, Air Board, Defence Department, Mel-
bourne. Ask for particulars of “Short Service” com-
missions. . . .W.J.Q.: Pekin duck breeders are G. E.
O. Craft, Ingleburn (N.S.W.), and W. Huxham, 96
Beardy-street, Armidale (N.S.W.). P. E. Best,
Lagoon-street, Goulburn, is a breeder of Aylesburys.
E.L.J.: See W. Perrers, 480 George-street,
Sydney H.V.; (1) Miss Traill lately held a
successful exhibition in Melbourne of water-color
paintings done in Central Australia. Address, 74
Bay-road, Sandringham, Vic. (2) Walter Jardine,
Kembla Buildings, Margaret-street, Sydney. (3)
P. A. Trompf, 501 Little Collins-street, Melbourne.
C.J.L.: Prefs. are (1) participating; (2) non-
participating. Of the participating, some climb only
an extra point or two; others are fully participating.
Look up the terms of issue D.C.T.: See reply to
439 B. 12/6/’29 D. 8.: See J. Slater, 21 Quay-
street, Sydney... .H.J.M.: Send full details of pro-
perty, stating work done on it, to Frank Hambridge,
22 Bridge-street, Sydney... .C.W.P.; Where an appli-
cant for a clearance certificate from income-tax
authorities has not furnished returns, it is necessary
to supply Taxation Department, Hamilton-street,
Sydney, with a statement of income and allowable
deductions for each year ended June 30, from 1914
to date of proposed departure. .. -H.C.M.: In Queens-
land rosella seed should be planted in coastal area*
from July to September and in inland districts from
September to November G.M.D.; Mauri Bros, and
Thomson, Ltd., 61 York-street, Sydney 8.J.D.:
(1) N.S.W. Government Insurance Office does business
only with State Government departments and State
Government employees. (2) Yes; from Is. to 10s.,
according to the powelr conferred... .L'.O.: (1)
Spicer and Pegler’s “Book-keeping” and Carter’s
“Advanced Accounts.” (2) Federal, Commonwealth
and Chartered Institutes all have branches in S.A.
(3) May and November in each year. (4) You must
pass the final exam, of a reputable institute
M.S.: “Golden Treasury of Australian Verse” and
“Selections from Australian Poets,” edited by Bertram
Stevens; “Book of Australasian Verse” (second edition
of Oxford Book of Australasian Verse), edited by
Walter Murdoch; “Australasian Anthology,” edited
by Percival Serle; and ‘An Austral Garden,” edited
by M. P. Hansen and Donald McLachlan. .. .M.G.:
Boiling the bark brings the liquor to full strength
quickly, but it is often too severe on light-furred
skins and may burn or harden the pelt. .Safer, even
though slower, to brew the liquor in cold water.
. ...D.R.; N.S.W. Hotel Employees (country) award
prescribes £4 Bs. p.w. for a male adult useful
From this amount 235. 9d. may be deducted for
board and lodging. An employee is not entitled to
payment for work done on his day off except during
certain specified festival weeks, when work may he
performed on the day off at time and a half-
industrial Registrar, Department of Labor, Sydney,
will assist you in recovering any balance of wages
due to you C.M.: Only the secretary can tell you.
Ask him,... (Many others mailed.)


cfcke New tiolfinq
*o
. '
> &'& ■">
$ * < : "<%* -l /
s■{ , - ,«“(/ - ' V W- ' ..
741 ~.. »\ !? , . <7>, r >/ v i
>' v« s * *
« ■ Sf^S
~ '•• . A #
i ;
: .'" - ■*%.<%
.■ Vx’'--.; . . * •
'•j V
V '■■ ' .y X- * Jf/ yS$&
;...v* x... '^m
'■■x *' ■'' /'-r *' rf . •, , /. - - ' .
' \f J -W •:•!:
" ' '••'■■■■'< 1/' ' » .;' "
jf „ % y s <> ' '• v J « , i j*
' t "> ■£ v > :;■., ?V \ '■'■' J'\ :I: M;/ '
fc *f -v ;*? • '•■ ■-/: 1 •;. > .i
>.i V '-il'. i.,' v-X><,l „*%.v ~ -4
*¥x».
*ss
;• t*
; *"•• •• •>: :
gr -
: I^-1
: ' : ’ 6* f Ti&k W% ■ i ' *p\* - ' *
0 ;;W Jw** „ v *• v*. < '
•f v V > >
5
■ - % ;^r
' A % - s -V S V. ‘
■ m - >5<J
A " ' - •■?-■. ••"" ;.
s lllli
.
% •>•■••• : ' ' 4V,
'-t y 's#
y •■• ••: ••' '• • >'.v:,> >■ •• '-•.v.<^v.>.
'l
, ; , ; \
» A *■ v j
/, ** '•:.
: M:
wB
m
m
;/ <\h< /
■■
■i:
iii
!ll|l@
v ■'
J ,"^V
; :X> x
;: • ... :>v •§■<•;•
/ -.V
' ‘ ?Vs#
, . . • ; >•
■/• V? < V - :
k«63S?.w
\ x . Vi
'' 1 V
' iiiS
:. : ,:.:;:;S;x-
-o ■:
v -‘
: :
iiiiiiii
IIV I JIO'J
io« mnui
3111^0^1
m
\c
U 4
V-'
V v' \
I
10
w
%
The facsimile of markings above illustrates
the latest thing in golf balls, if the new ball
is placed alongside the old style at, say, putting
distance from the eye, nine people out of ten
will see the new as larger than the old.
This is purely an optical illusion; but, 1
sphericity of the ball as the new marking does, maACo *t
to hit, and discounts, to some extent, the mental effect of cuppy
lies. A majority of golfers make the mistake of looking down
on the ball, rather than behind it. It will be noted ffom slow-
motion pictures, how all the great golfers focus their attention
at the back of the ball. The Multi-dot always presents a spot
for concentration behind the ball. Look at that spot when hit-
ting, and a better shot will result. Multi-dot balls are easily
identified on the fair-way. Four players using four different
colors, can pick their ball ten yards away. In bright sunlight,
and against the white sand of traps, the Multi-dot is far less
glaring to the eye, and more easily defined. As the ball ages
in play, the Multi-dot serves in contrast, and preserves a certain *
a appearance ”in the old ball. Try it, and be convinced !
L L
9 (AUSTR.ALAS
352 Kent Street,
Y-j&tfX t.
A) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY.
tryryrty


WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most-up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydney!
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
PAY AS YOU GO BY CHEQUE
XOJf :
1. It eliminates unwise spending.
2. It saves- time and many steps in settling bills.
3. It gives prestige to your transactions.
4- It instils respect through your association with a reputable bank.
At this Bank you are allowed Interest on. your
minimum quarterly balance.
£)ank. of Australia %
HEAD OFFICE. 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at London
THE
Farmers 8 Settlers
Co-operative Insurance
Co. of Australia, Ltd.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL,
£250,000
Fire, Accident, Marine, Motor-car,
Workers’ Compensation, Growing
Crops, Stacks, Wool, Fencing.
SPECIALISING IN INSURANCE
FOR THE MAN ON THE LAND
ACTIVE AGENTS REQUIRED
WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
N.S.W. Office:
Wingelo House, Angel Place, Sydnev
F. D. POWELL, Manager.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CRPARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
PRIZES FOR FARMERS.
“The Bulletin” offered two prizes (£2O
and £10) to the writers of the most useful
contributions to this page during the first
half of the year in addition to the ordinary
payments.
Points are to be awarded not only for
all contributions printed but for all con-
tributions submitted, if worthy of points.
The winners will be announced on July 10.
On the same date arrangements for
the future will be announced.
The prizes have stimulated the contri-
bution of hints and other information of
the utmost value to farmers of every kind;
and it is felt that the practice ought to
be continued in some form, inasmuch as,
owing to the fall in the price of wool,
wheat, etc., better and more economical
farming is more necessary than ever, and
hints and other information to secure
these results are therefore more indis-
pensable.
*
AGRICULTURAL TRAINING IN N.S.W.
The fact that farming is a science is
obscured, even in these enlightened days, by
the corollary fact that the most highly quali-
fied book-taught expert would find that he
had three-quarters of his business yet to
learn as soon as he started tilling the land.
The ideal method of agricultural training is
one that combines precept with practice and
which is administered by a combination of
scientists and men who got their knowledge
by experience.
Judging by a film outlining the methods
of educating budding farmers in N. S. Wales
which was shown to a few interested folk
in Sydney a few days ago, the ideal is very
nearly attained in the senior State. The
first step is rural schools, which give a high-
school education but substitute agriculture
for foreign languages.
Next come the residential agricultural
schools, such as Yanco and Glenfield. You
can board a boy at these for several months
of the year at £33 per annum, which is well
under cost. He gets a grounding in every
branch of agriculture and has a chance of
earning a bit in a shearing shed or at har-
vesting and adding to his practical experi-
ence while the school is in vacation.
A more advanced course is provided at
Hawkesbury Agricultural College or the
State’s various experimental farms, and those
who qualify at a residential agricultural
school can go on, if they so desire, to Sydney
Uni., where after a four years’ course they
ban, if they have the ability, graduate as
B.Sc.Ag. Many of the degree men become
research workers, instructors, or Agricultural
Department officers, but the course would
be an asset to any farmer.
BRACKEN.
“Agronom”: Bracken fern is the most
troublesome weed on the N.S.W. coast. It is
particularly hard to control where logs and
si umps shelter it from the trampling of stock.
Where the stumps are not too thick to pre-
vent its use a bruiser is the cheapest and
most effective means of control. It is made
•b;,: nlitting a solid log ISin. in diameter and
4ft. long in halves. Lay them 2ft. apart
round side up, and secure them in this posi-
tion with two cross-pieces 'firmly bolted
through the logs. If this is drawn broadside
on through the bracken it bruises the fern
down, which is better than cutting it, and
infinitely quicker and cheaper. The opera-
tion must be repeated so as to crush the
young fronds as they appear; but four or
five bruisings in spring and summer will give
the fern a severe check, and, if you have sown
suitable vigorous grasses as soon as you
commence the treatment, the battle is practi-
cally won.
The trampling of cattle bruises the fern
and breaks off the young tender fronds,
thereby reducing its vitality. All fern
country should be sown with grasses and
then heavily stocked. Where the home-made
bruiser cannot be used on account of logs,
etc., it will be necessary to cut the fern and
burn it before sowing the grass. It may also
be necessary to slash it again to give the
grass a chaiice.
On the coast of N.S.W. the best grass for
controlling the fern is kikuyu. It should be
planted with a hoe (in rough country) 3ft.
apart on the burnt bracken. If it can be
ploughed in, so much the better. Kikuyu
does not seed in N.S.W., so plains must be
used. Once the grass is properly rooted,
stock heavily. Kikuyu is vigorous and palat-
able and will stand more frost than paspalum.
On light or sandy country the best grass
to sow is creeping paspalum ( Paspalum
compression) , sown 41b. to the acre in spring
on the freshly burnt bracken country. Where
a winter rainfall is experienced subterranean
clover top-dressed with super, is useful.
LIFTING STOCK.
“N.M.L.”: When a sheep goes down there
is only one way to lift it. Take hold of it
above the rump and the shoulder, lift it a
few inches from the ground, and toss it
forward to land on its feet a foot or more
ahead of where it lay. The trip through
the air restores its courage and when its
legs are braced to meet the earth the shock
necessitates a slight jump to preserve its
balance. So the sheep takes up its burden
and goes on.
If a sheep is cramped by lying on one side,
turning it over and letting it lie on the
other side may restore circulation in the
cramped limbs. If the sheep is badly
affected, turn it on its back, take the cramped
limbs in each hand, grasping them as near
the toe-joints as possible, and work the legs
backwards and forwards to their full length.
Five minutes of that is not too much, and
often little enough. When the sheep is
again on its feet it will feel lopsided and
be apt to fall. A dozen strides
will effect a perfect cure. Walk
beside the sheep on the weak
side, and let it lean against
your legs as it staggers along.
Unless horses and cattle
make an effort to rise all man
can do is vain. One man may
assist a weak cow or bullock.
Two are better. If the beast
will try, very often a little help
at the rudder is all that is
needed. Grip the tail firmly,
taking a half-turn with the
hairy end round the hand, and
as the beast makes the effort let
the man also strain and heave
in an uplift. Having assisted it
to its feet, let him stand still
till the beast walks away. Then
he may follow it, assisting and steering by
the rudder. Should he move when first the
beast stands groggily on its pins, it will
most likely swing in an effort to charge
him. That means it drops again and is
harder to get up the second time than it
was the first. Two men may assist on the
rudder, or they may slip a rail under the
beast’s flank and lift there. Bear in mind
that cattle always rise hind legs first.
Horses which will try may be, and have
been assisted with a friendly lift of the tail
after they have their fore-feet well planted
and the fore-body raised. Otherwise, and if
the thing caffit lift its fore-part, then two men
may slip a rail under its chest, with one
man at its stern, and when the horse tries
let all hands give it a heave. A horse gets up
fore-end first and apparently uses greater
muscular effort than the beast which rises
rump first.
In the case of any stock, when the animal
is up on its feet, or before lifting it. wash
off all the dirt which may have collected on
it.
IMPOUNDING THE RAIN.
“Curlew”: On many farms there are de-
pressions across which an embankment
might be thrown and large quantities *of
water conserved. Tom Gibbs, of Violet
Town (Vic.), has shown what can be done
in this way. He put an embankment across
a depression. It took him six months, single-
handed, using a scoop and a pair of horses.
The drainage from about 500 acres is im-
pounded. Below this there are only a few
acres, which are irrigated by water from the
reservoir. These are planted with grapes
and currants and a plot of lucerne. Though
the only good rains since the middle of last
year were in October last, cash returns from
the irrigated area this season amounted to
about £350. Without the weir the return
from this land was as many shillings. If
there were thousands of such weirs through-
out Australia it would make a wonderful
difference in farm production.
DON’T TOP-DRESS TOO OFTEN.
“P.W.E.”: While nobody will deny that
top-dressing with super, for a few applica-
tions gives wonderful results —those of natu-
rally rich land are almost incredible —nature
exacts a penalty. After several years of con-
tinual treatment the response gradually
weakens as other plant-food essentials dimi-
nish with tne abnormal demand made upon
them. The land in time requires spelling, or
an application of lime, or seed mixtures of
imported grasses, or a dressing with other
manures to keep up the response of previous
years.
The growth of trefoils and clovers pro-
moted by the use of super, is not an unmixed
blessing. After two or three applications of
super., clovers, especially when subterranean
is established, smother all the native grasses
in the pasture. The stock-carrying capacity
is a subject of wonder when the season is
favorable, but you seldom hear of what hap-
pens when a dry summer and autumn fol-
low. 1 have seen a 40-acre paddock of sub-
terranean carry SO ewes and lambs from
May till December. Then a dry spell ensued.
Twenty ewes managed to live on the dry burr
and seed till March, when enough rain to
strike the clover fell. Then followed a cold,
frosty winter, and the clover, in spite of a
liberal top-dressing, made not the slightest
growth till the weather warmed up in Sep-
tember. Thus, for nine months this paddock,
well stocked with clovers and top-dressed,
gave practically no return, while the adjoin-
ing land, with its hardy native grasses and
no manure, carried its usual quota.
Speaking generally, to 2 cwt. of super,
every four or five years seems to be best
adapted for the average Australian pasture,
taking into account the chanciness of the
seasons. Annual applications of super, soon
demand other expensive treatments, and those
are only justified where the land is naturally
rich.
FERTILISER-MIXING (’HART.
The chart reproduced here has been worked
out by the chemistry section of the M.L.
Department of Agriculture :
Substances joined by thick line should not be
mixed. Substances joined by double lines
should not be mixed until just before using.
Substances joined by a thin line may be
mixed at any time. Where a dotted line
is used to connect two fertilisers reference
should be made to the following notes: —
Superphosphate and basic slag may be
mixed just before sowing; if the mixture is
allowed to stand it is liable to set to a hard
mass.
Superphosphate mixed with a certain
amount of caustic lime is on the market
under the name of basic super. About 15
per cent, of slaked lime will revert all the
water-soluble phosphate in ordinary super-
phosphate to the dicalcic or citrate-soluble
state. In case an excess of lime is present
in basic super, it is not advisable to mix
this fertiliser with nitrogenous organic
manures or sulphate of ammonia.
It is not advisable to mix superphosphate
and kainit, the mixture being liable to form
a sticky mass on standing. Other potash
salts may be mixed safely with super.
Ground rock phosphate and lime should be
applied in conjunction only after a field trial
has shown that the results are better than
those with phosphates alone.
POTASSIC FERTILISERS.
“R.D.A.” : “L.N.’s” defence of muriate of
potash (B. 15/s’/29) calls for an answer.
The lessons from field practice are ignored by
“L.N.,” so let me “prop up the old bogey,”
as he calls it, with some authorities.
Regarding lime depletion by the muriate
Wheeler says : “The use of the chloride in-
creases the need for liming and the calcium
chloride formed is highly toxic to plants and
easily liquefied. Calcium sulphate [the salt
formed when the sulphate of potash is added]
is beneficial, an indirect plant food and ordi-
narily insoluble.” Despeissis confirms this
view.
“L.N.’s” figures regarding sugar-cane do
not touch the most important aspect, the
quality of the sugar as compared with sugar
sulphate fertilised.
As to citrus trees, Prof. Hume says: “Of
all the [potash] materials used the sulphate
is the safest and best. It is well established
that it is not well to use muriate of potash
on citrus trees. The high-grade sulphate is
preferable to the low-grade.”
On potatoes, A. D. Hall (Rothainsted)
says: "The muriate has often been shown to
yield a greater weight of potatoes, though
the tubers are more ‘watery.’ ” Stoney
(America) says: “Sulphate is esteemed best
for potatoes, etc., especially in cases where —
as is not unusual in Germany—the tubers
are used for making starch.” Stockhardt
(Germany) says: “The sulphate produced
30001 b. more potatoes per acre and 1 per
cent, more starch than the muriate.”
“L.N.” distorts Grasby’s remarks on pot-
ash. All 1 can find in the latest edition of
his book is: "The application of potash
fertilisers in Australia has been so small
that it is impossible to speak with any
degree of certainty as to the present need of
their use.” Also, “Sulphate of potash is the
form most generally used.” The use of muri-
ate, I believe, was suggested (not “recom-
mended”) for potatoes where there was a
“sufficiency of lime.” "L.N.” omits this
latter all-important qualification.
As to grapes, Prof. Peraz’s dictum cuts
no ice with S. Aus. vignerous or those in
other parts of the world in spite of its
authority. Perrold (South Africa) says:
“On the whole the high-grade sulphate is the
best [for vines].”
As sold, the muriate is not potassically
richer than sulphate. In Australia it is
50 per cent. K2O ; in America the guarantee
for both muriate and sulphate is 48 per
cent. —25 per cent. K2O. There are three
grades of muriate and two of the sulphate.
Wiley says: “When sold for fertiliser pur-
poses the basis is 80 per cent, pure muriate,
equivalent to 50.5 per cent, actual potash.”
The latest decennial Tasmanian reports
show an average falling-off in potato yields
per acre of 17cwt. So the quoted fertilising
practice there only shows a deplorable
absence of experimental work and an igno-
ranee of potash effects in the
soil generally.
If any farmer decides to fol-
low “L.N.’s” advice and use
muriate, there are two precau-
tions to take: Dress the soil
heavily with slack lime prior to
fertilising. This will partially
overcome the ill-effects of the
muriate. And remember that
muriate —essentially a “basic
soil” fertiliser —acts best and
least harmfully when added to
such soils six months before
cropping.
Muriate has its uses—limited
by its defects—but I re-empha-
sise the fact that, from an
economic aspect, the sulphate is
best for Australia at £2 per ton
more than the muriate.
WINTER DAIRYING.
“Agronom" : Many dairy-farmers in N. S.
Wales have realised just what fodder con-
servation will do for them. It enables them
to produce large quantities of cream in
winter, when the price is better. Benefiting
by this experience, some have arranged to
have most of their cows calve in the autumn.
The cows milk well after calving, and as
the feed is ■ kept up to them they continue
to produce well throughout the winter; then
they respond to the flush of the spring
growth, so that they produce more actual
milk or butter than cows calving in spring.
This does not apply to the North Coast quite
so much as to the southern half of N.S.W.,
but wherever feed can be economically con-
served it is worth considering.
J. Kell, who won the Tumut fodder con-
servation competition this year, adopts this
system of winter dairying with excellent
results. He also adopts a system of rota-
tional: grazing, especially on his lucerne pad-
docks. He has five small grazing lucerne
fields, and the cows are allowed access to
one of them for about one hour a day (long
enough for cows to fill up on a good crop).
They arc then removed so that they do not
destroy or foul the crop. The fields are in
this way grazed in rotation. In the flush of
summer one or two of the paddocks are
mowed and the hay put in a shed for winter
use.
Rotational grazing of grass paddocks in-
creases carrying capacity to a remarkable
extent. Another practice that is fairly common,
especially on the N.S.W. North Coast, is to
shut one paddock up in the autumn so that
it will furnish feed for the winter. The tall
growth shelters the green undergrowth from
the frosts, and also makes a warmer bed for
cows to lie on than does bare pasture.
DUAL PURPOSE DAIRY CATTLE.
“Wattle”: “L’Fou” (B. 22/5/’29) says
Jerseys are best for dairying, and deprecates
dual-purpose animals. I don’t agree. The
best dairy cattle are dual-purpose animals,
such as Red Polls and Friesians, the former
being more suited to cold, .hilly districts than
most other breeds. ' ’
For the farmer who wishes to improve his
(Continued on page 92.)


"'"""“’SELECT a Mills-
try it on. In every
line and aspect its
appeal is so appar-
ent that no man
can afford to disregard its
merits.
Ml
ii f J
t
? yxJtf
•:
•
In
ng
V'll
v|
AVxxxXNXVXXNnxVXS.xxxxxVVVVSvxXxxxWNW'SS
JL Hat that suits
uour,
'ersonauu
Obtainable at all the
leading Men’s Stores
A PRODUCT OF UNITED FELT HATS PTY-
ITD
M7


tv° e
ov
tv
ce
etv
o^ e
&*
V-
e
<jj& s
d
ogd e
ad
'j
icA e
\d
rtO^
nN& s
\fc
S$ e
3$®
e
9
\X&
ov
od°
ec
\o^
id
veeV
d
MV
tfV°
iM
V
a
<
jov\e °Sd V et
d aS v
cat ’
\cc esS ‘ Y^ ce ’
, A w. xT &s
A >« ot le» 4 ,
, e d i<d.
o^ e _ d se d
' W
w
n
Itfl
! '--V
d vY d9’
.f 6 >» >
C 0^ S ‘
lYve V^\ve
. *W^ A " ••
<
jo\\e °! J’t>°' f,e L
fdve *.. •Jcs . ; •
v. ; i-ivJlll
fill
P 0
tvc£
tv
tio^>o°\ i ;v svv
e S\\dd
’£s^ e jf of
sd^A
)i9 2
,. , *IYIjI v
Old
oU s
$^\ n ng V v
fgt^ 1 ,v. Ujl' ,1 l ■]. 0
Wo
*°* v ° ca '
■Q VO^
VjN 9 - . ftoto P w "
V<v
t*iw
U a ‘
u a
f vWW .,
M elb 0^ e B °VD PS,
s - y i^'M&Ti A M o U i.
>*
a»*?V sT


fII
f ft ,<
mf\v ■ mm
Py\i . •«.'•■:' | Aji
hh
Ml
■
-14* \
IfejNsy
as
■I
:■ 'Si-Js
1
ISS
Wfm
/ii
: :
:
m E
sl&
«
c
SV’J
XI
\
*
J
\ it
In
1
I • ; f :
Ik
i
:.ul~;
LM
Li
/
V
/ A
*#: j*
V
LJ
V*
**■'> <•> OWWv
V-
n:
mm
■ H
ms
k /
hhhhhhihh
mm
m "
\! , .
M
OBL
V
M
m
M
y
SNERAL MOTORS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
LBOURNE SYDNEY BRISBANE ADELAIDE PERTH


•r~a
- I
r a '" n
Sf,
s'
They Outwear all
Ordinary Shoes 1
Light and amazingly pliant,
so that the roughest going is
made comfortable, these
Abbey Sports Shoes are
soled with the strongest
crepe rubber, sewn to a
leather base that holds the
uppers in shape. They are
neatly brogued, with low-
cut sides and lacing arranged
to curve over the instep.
The shoes tie up closely
without any strain, and the
uppers are made of brown
willow calf—most durable
and flexible of leathers for
the purpose.
Order by Post.
You can choose full or half sizes,
in medium or wide fittings. Exact
measure is assured—the shoes are
easy from the first time on. Specify
width and length needed. Order,
also, Abbey Dark Tan Polish (6d.
per tin).
Brown Willow Calf,
50/-
Enlarged catalogue of men’s and women’s
footwear post free.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
F.P.L.129
*
m
B 1
; :
mamm
Actual
The complete satisfaction, that
only perfection brings, more
than justifies the fastidiousness
that will insist on—
"la corona*
HAUT-A- C O FIONA
GRAND NATIONAL
PROSPECTS.
ARTHUR POSTLE
on
RUNNING.
Exclusive Articles in this week’s
“SPORTING GLOBE”
The Leading Australian
Sporting Paper.
New South Wales edition available
every Thursday.
Price, 3d.
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
J<o disease has caused more loss in sheep than Fluke,
yet for less than one-fifth of a penny per sheep this
can now be cured by the application of Carbon
tetrachloride. This process has been tested by the
Agricultural Departments of various States in Aus-
tralia, and has received their endorsement. It
requires preparation and additions before it can be
applied to the sheep, and these are skilfully carried
out in
SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
1 pint tins .. . 4/6 5/- each
1 quart tins .. 6/6 7/- each
POST FliliK OX FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins . . 13/6 16/- each
DELIVERED NEAREST RAILWAY STATION
ON FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY., LTD.,
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
“KANGAROO”
FIELD GATES
Made in our own factory under
skilled supervision. Only the best-
quality lsin. diameter steel tubing is
used. All joints are electrically
welded, thus making the gates excep-
tionally strong. ALL “KANGAROO”
FIELD GATES ARE NOW COVERED
WITH 6-LINE -KANGAROO” RING-
LOCK FENCING, an innovation
which adds very much to their
strength. Our patent hinge brings
the gate to within -Jin. of gate post.
Our special pipe-bending machine
turns the bottom corners of gates
exactly at right angles. This does
away with joins and makes the gate
stronger. Fitted with patent latch.
All gates, unless otherwise specified,
are 3ft. I Oin. high.
Fig. RLIOB.
Very strong tubular steel gate; our
cheapest farm gate. 10ft., 27/-; lift.,
28/-; 12ft., 30/- each.
tryryrty
Fig. 80.
Tubing l|in. steel, and fitted with
patent hinges and latch. Price: Bft.,
30/-; 9ft., 31/-: 10ft., 33/6; lift.,
35/-; 12ft., 37/6.
Prices F.O.R. or F. 0.8. Melb.
Send for free “Kangaroo” Fencing
Catalogue.
Manufactured by
D.gW. CHANDLER LTD.
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy.
Hargreaves Street, Bendigo.
Lava Street, Warrnambool.
Pynsent Street, Horsham.
VICTORIA.
SSL
Martin Ditcher
Most useful farm implement
in Australia. Quickly saves
the cost, £35, in speed, effi-
ciency and wages. Ditches,
levels, irrigates, drains, re-
claims, builds and repairs
roads, etc.
J. B. WALLIS LTD.
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney-
-499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
168 Edward Street, Brisbane
T. T. Building, Light Street, Adelaide
Royal Arcade, Barrack Street, Perth
B.K.
cattle the best bull is a Friesian of good
pedigree and type. Such bulls are noted for
their prepotency, and are quiet; but they
should not be used too young or inbred too
much.
The bull calves from a Jersey are value-
less owing to puny size, but Friesian cross-
bred calves mature quickly, make good veal
and baby beef, and later make excellent
working bullocks. The heifers come in early
and stay well at the bucket. The cows are
excellent yielders, giving more milk than any
other breed, and when past milking fatten
well and bring good money for beef. The
milk is much greater in quantity, though of
poorer quality than Jersey, but the yield of
fat is greater. If farm-separated there is
more skim milk for pigs, calves, poultry, etc.
Friesian-cross cattle consume more feed
than Jerseys, but recompense it by greater
yields. Every calf when born has had so
much feed put into it, and if destroyed at
birth, as with Jerseys, is a dead loss. With
Friesians the calf returns a good profit.
REARING CALVES.
“Bill R.": In poddying calves the sources
of much trouble are unsuitable feeding and
insanitation. Dairymen as a rule grudge
whole milk to their poddies, but it is false
economy. Without proper feeding the ani-
mals will grow up weaklings.
Young calves should be given, in three
feeds, 81b. of whole milk daily. This should
be increased to 121 b. at four weeks old, and
afterwards there may be additions of skiin-
milk or whey.
Plenty of fresh water should be available,
and the poddies should be given early access
to green feed. At three weeks old they may
be given small quantities of crushed grain,
with their milk or separately.
Calf scouring is often due to infection by
bacteria. It is infectious, first attacking the
weaker calves and gradually spreading
through the herd. The first affected should
immediately be isolated and dosed with castor
oil or raw linseed oil. The pens and yards
should then be thoroughly cleansed anti dis-
infected.
PASTURES ON OLD GOLDFIELDS.
“E.H.S.” : Some of the old Vic. goldfields,
hitherto regarded as of little value for agri-
cultural or grazing purposes, have been
proved to be capable of an astonishing degree
of improvement. The most notable success
has been achieved by W. D. McLeod, of
Stawell, who purchased 3600 acres of this
class of land in the neighborhood of the
Grampians about five years ago. When he
took over the property it was carrying less
than 1800 sheep. To-day it carries 3400, and
the animals are healthier and more robust
than their predecessors. Mr. McLeod is con-
fident that with the completion of his system
of improvement the carrying capacity will be
well over a sheep to the acre, and may reach
two; and he believes that with persistent
top-dressing much of the property will event-
ually carry as high as three sheep to the
acre. The soil varies from shallow clay (about
Bin.) to deep sand. The land is ploughed
and sown with 14 bushel of oats, lib.
of subterranean clover and lewt. super,
per acre. After cutting the oats the clover is
allowed to shed its seed before the stock is
given access to it; in the second year it is
top-dressed with lewt. of superphosphate per
acre, and the owner of the property considers
that once the pasture is established top-
dressing at intervals of three years will be
sufficient to maintain the increased carrying
capacity. Already 550 acres have been laid
down, and each year 100 acres of new land
is fallowed and treated in the same way.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Last winter I drenched my ewes within
two months of lambing with ‘loz. arsenic
and 6 lb. Epsom salts to 4gal. water and had
some deaths. Is there any risk with the
mixture, and how close to lambing is it safe
to drench? —449.
There is no danger in giving ewes in lamb
a drench of arsenic and Epsom salts, pro-
vided the drench is made up as recommended
by the Q’land Dept, of Agriculture, which is
the same quantities of arsenic and Epsom
salts jis used in the above case, but mixed
with sgal. of water, giving as a dose 2 fluid
oz. to grown sheep. The Dept.’s Chief Inspec-
tor of Stock has drenched to within three
weeks of lambing without loss. Late
drenching should be avoided if possible, but
if the season is suitable for worm-produc-
tion it is better to drench close up to lamb-
ing than to allow the worms to infest ewes
at this time, as no ewe can rear a good
vigorous lamb if harboring worms in large
numbers. Care should be exercised in hand-
ling ewes in the yard and when being
drenched, as rough handling is very often
responsible for heavy losses at lambing of
both ewes and lambs.
Would the following do as a good salt
lick f;or sheep: 214 1 b. coarse salt, 14 lb.
sulphate of iron, 4 lb. sulphur, lib. ground
ginger and 6 lb. to 10 lb. air-slaked lime? —
446.
The formula is practically in all eases quite
unsuitable. The principal ingredient of a lick,
from 50 to 66 per cent., should be phos-
phate in form of finely crushed Nauru phos-
phate or fine bonemeal (also perhaps bone
ash and bone char, but on no account super-
phosphate). Salt should be cut down and in
many cases left out altogether if animals
have to drink saline water.
What concentrates should be given to
Jersey cows during winter? —509.
For a cow in full milk give 31b. corn
meal and 21b. bran twice daily. If not in
full milk, adjust the amount accordingly.
(1) Do melon and pumpkin seeds give
greater yields if two years or more old?
(2) How to cross Scotch tomato with a
larger breed?— 4s7.
(3 ) This oft-repeated theory is not demon-
strated in practice. (2) The tomato flower
does not readily lend itself to cross polli-
nation. It is possible that a cross may be
effected by collecting such pollen as is
available on the early opening flower of the
one variety and applying it to the centre
of the flower on the other. • Care should be
exercised that the pollen is mature, and is
best; collected and applied by the aid of a
small camel-hair brush. Quite immaterial
upon which plant the cross is effected.
(1 )How to plant and cultivate peanuts?
(2) How to roast peanuts?— 44l.
Prepare in the same way as for maize.
Plant seed in drills 3ft. apart, 12 to 18
inches between the seeds. To sow an acre,
271 b. to 351 b. of unshelled or 81b. to 101 b.
of shelled nuts will be required. Shelling
leads to a quicker germination, but care
must be taken not to injure the kernel or
its sheath. Sow lin. to 2in. deep. The crop is
sensitive to frost at all stages of its growth,
and a climate in which there are four to
five months’ freedom from frosts is neces-
sary for success. Plant in the spring, but
not before the danger of frosts has passed
and the soil is warm. Cultivate crop fre-
quently between the rows until the blossom
is formed. It will mature in three to four
months; then fork out vines and nuts and
place iii small heaps to wilt three or four
hours. Then build into small stacks or stooks
around stakes 7ft. or Bft. long driven firmly
into the ground. Stakes should be sharpened
at both ends, and a couple of laths 18 inches
long nailed to them at right angles, and six
inches from the ground. Build on these in
successive layers with the nuts to the centre
and stems sloping downwards to shed the
water. Towards the top draw in rapidly to
form a cone capping. After about three
weeks in the stack the pods become dry and
the nuts firm; then pick from the vines. (2)
The nuts are placed over a- fire in slowly
revolving drums about 3ft. long and 18in.
in diameter. One cwt. in the shell takes
about 45 minutes to roast.
My N.S.W. property has a creek as one
houndary. Am / entitled to pump what
water is available in the creek for irriga-
tion purposes, or could f he restrained from
doing so by my neighbor tohosc boundary
is also the same creek? —450.
To have the right to pump water from
the creek you will have to apply to the
Water Conservation and Irrigation Commis-
sion, 247 George-street, Sydney, for a
license under the Water Act 1912.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“D.J.IT.”; In leaving fallowed ground to
catch the autumn, winter and early spring
rain make sure that too much water does
not lie on the area. Have a look at the
paddock under rain, and draw a furrow here
and there to drain off surface water. Neglect
of this precaution may result in the forma-
tion of a waterlogged spot in the best of
the cultivation. Neglected ground, also, may
be so cold that germination will be delayed,
and an uneven crop will result.
“Yeoman”: The worst and most obstinate
cases of sand in horses will yield completely
to the following simple treatment: Take lib.
of honey and thin by mixing it with a pint
of warm water. Give the mixture in the
form of a drench. Three such drenches are
invariably sufficient to clear all the sand
out in the worst cases. There are no ill-
effects such as arise from the rolling and
rubbing of the stomach of the thrown horse
If the horse is in pain, give loz. doses of
chlorodyne in a pint of water every four
hours until pain ceases. Feed for a tew days
on bran mashes to which a little raw linseed
oil has been added.
“.Tack Point”: When you get your incu-
bator out of the corner where it has been
since last hatching season, it wants a bit of
attention before you start filling it up with
eggs. Wash it out well with warm water and
soap, and add some good, disinfectant to
the water. Clean all the dust and cobwebs
both from where they can be seen and where
they can’t. Put a new wick in the lamp and
see that the thermometer is accurate. You
can do this by testing it in comparison with
two or three others known to be accurate, or
you can post it to an expert to be tested for a
nominal fee, Even if you have to buy a new
one it will cost only about a fiftieth of the
loss caused by spoiling even a small
hatch. See, also, that your capsule or ther-
mostat is working well. To do this, set the
machine up and run it for several days
before putting any eggs in. And, finally, put
about a dessertspoonful of permanganate of
potash in a saucer, pour over it a dessert-
spoonful of formalin, put this inside the egg-
chamber and shut it up. The gas given off
penetrates every crevice and kills all germs.
A few hours in the sun with the door open
after washing will also help to sweeten the
incubator up.
“Yeoman”; A fairly accurate way to esti-
mate the dressed weight of cattle is to take
the measurement (in feet) of the girth of
the beast close behind the shoulders, then
take the length (in feet) of the back from
the fore part of the shoulder-blade to the
bone at the junction of the tail. Multiply
the square of the girth by five times the
length of the back, and then take two-thirds
of the product. The result is the dressed
weight in pounds. For example, if the girth of
a bullock is 7ft. and the length of the back
is sft., the dressed weight is found thus:
Multiply the square of 7 (49) by five times
5 (25), and the product will be 1225. Divide
1225 by 3 and multiply by 2. This will give
816|lb. Very fat cattle will weigh 5 per
cent, more; lean animals 5 per cent. less.
The dressed weight is not much more than
half of the live weight. The skin weighs
about one-eighteenth and the tallow one-
twelfth of the live weight.
“Yeoman”: If a horse’s shoulders are soft
and subject to scalding or sores, tannin or an
infusion of wattle bark or salt added to the
water with which the shoulders should be
washed when the collar is removed, will
toughen or harden the skin. When sores
already exist or break out, one of the best
remedies to apply is a lard and black-lead
ointment, prepared as follows: In a tin of
hot water dissolve some lard, add powdered
black-lead and sulphur. When the mixture
is nearly cold add a little carbolic oil. This
ointment leaves a glossy surface on the sore
as well as on that part of the collar over
the sore. The collar, however, should be
hollowed to relieve the pressure on the sore.
A simple remedy for saddle or other sores
on riding- and pack-horses that many bush-
men swear by is the oil from tins of sar-
dines, which is saved and put into bottles and
corked tightly until required for use. The
oil is rubbed on the sore, not only healing
it, but hardening the skin as well.


U.
o
ur -
rn
m
0
<
X
vs
l
v
m
tA
«
k.
s
w
IVvw
?'~W
»wr
•*r
V
«
M
Wf
twv
*wuil
W 3
wf*
z
ten**
s
w
«
B
ti
w
WEED
TYRE CHAINS
are on
these tyres
They leave their im-
prints of unmistakable
quality and service
behind them.
Every cross chain bites
deep into mud, sand or
clay, and traction is thus
assured. You can go any-
where with Weed Tyre
Chains on your tyres.
Made in sizes to fit all tyres
—single or dual, solid or
pneumatic.
Order from your dealer
AMERICAN CHAIN CO.
New York. N. Y., U. S. A.
WEED TYRE CHAINS
For Any Travel
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
tryryrty
The accredited Agents of all Steam
Ship Lines. Their expert guidance and
special facilities cost you nothing.
TO EUROPE 1930
Apply now for accommodation, as
berthing plans for all steamers are open.
WINTER TOURS
To Queensland, Bali, Java, Siam,
Japan, Hawaii, Malaya, Sumatra, Indo-
China (Saigon, Pnom-Penh, Angkor).
STEAMER EXCURSIONS
Cairns, South Sea Islands, Fiji, Tahiti,
Honolulu, Ceylon, Java, Japan and
Manila, etc.
COOKS’ TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES
Are the safest and most convenient
means of carrying funds.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street,
ADELAIDE:
49 Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE;
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Fiace.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).
15 Million Motor Cars
scattered throughout the world are now equipped with one of
the ALEMITE Systems of Lubrication* All these cars are protected
against repair bills* 80% of all repairs on the moving parts of a
motor car come from one cause, namely lack of proper lubrication.
The ALEMITE Systems of Lu-
brication thoroughly lubricate
every vital chassis bearing. Old,
gritty, wornout grease is forced
out. Clear, clean, Alemite Lubri-
cant — a solidified oil—is forced
into the bearing under tremend-
ous pressure. Every bearing is
thoroughly cleaned and at the
same time lubricated.
Throughout Australia there are Alemite
Service Stations. “ALEMITE-ING” every
500 miles will make your car run silently
and smoothly and it will be perfectly lubri-
cated at all times.
If there is no Alemite Service Station near
you we suggest you write to any of the addresses
given below and full information will be sent you
about “ ALEMITE-ING.”
98
ALEMITE MANUFACTURING CORPORATION
ChiCagO DIVISION OF STEWART-WARNER fj. S* A*
Full particulars from
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH
Resident Manager
250 Pitt Street. Sydney, N. S. W.
11'
\
Or from the following representatives: Atkins (W. A.)» Ltd. • • 894 Hay Street, Perth
Bennett & Wood, Ltd. . 284 Pitt St., Sydney E. A.Machin & Co. Pty., Ltd,. 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
Motor Supplies, Ltd. . . . Brisbane Cornell Limited, 122 Pirie St., Box G.P.0., 496 E. Adelaide
For the Dominion of New Zealand: Jas. J. Niven & Co., 152 Wakefield Street, Wellington, N. Z.
ALEMITE
HIGH PRESSURE LUBRICATION
JRK


EXTRA HIGH GRADE
SMOH/NG TOBAGO
its
>ualit
is
Unequalled
19 per 2oz Tin
tryryrty
Promptness—The first essential of Assurance.
P. & C. take pride in acting quickly. Every claim has immediate
attention. This is only one of the many advantages that com-
mend P. &C. Assurance to the man on the land. Policies car-
ried on during times of stress —money set aside each year for loans to
members. P. &C. is linked up with the most influential Co-operative
bodies, and clients’ interests are closely guarded. Here are plain
facts for commonsense men —P. & C. Assurance is the kind you need
—investigate the policies right away. Send for literature.
Chairman of Directors ■ lion. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Man. Director: H. Fell
PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA
ll4 - 120 CASTLE RE Aq M ST. SYDNEY
(Clothes for
(Jilm
tryryrty
anit 'Qltjeit
J»on*
"xJWe "Stanley”
Spirit Flask
For those who travel, this Spirit Flask
is extremely handy. Unbreakable, will
not leak, holds a full quart. Lined
with pure silver and finished in green
pebbled covering.
Round Shape
27/6
Oblong Shape
32/6
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street. Brisbane
SMOKE-OH!
Sydney bridge-workers certainly can’t
afford to fall down on their job.
* ¥
“A, lodging-house is a fearful place for
scandal,” says a Sydney paper. Roomers for
rumors.
* *
“The pellets from the shotgun struck him
in the leg, and he was naturally angry,” says
a daily paper, explaining an elderly farmer’s
outbreak of violence. Objected to being made
game of, no doubt.
K- *
“The next speaker was Mr. Dan Kelly.”
But it was those present who had to stand
Dan deliver his speech.
*
SALOON-BAR VIGNETTE.
(’ome, my beloved, fill the pot that cheers,'
For I am harassed by domestic fears.
This evening? Nay, this evening 1 shall be
At home with her who’s nagged me through
QUITE TRUE.
B UNKS: “You married me for my money, anyway.”
M RS. B.: “Yes. I’m reminded of that every time I
look at you.”
“Other wealthy U.S.A. visitors are Messers. J. C.
Gumming and Albert Cohen.”
Another case of money Gumming and
Cohen.
The Vic. Minister of Railways says that
he is out to develop the State and its
people. Is it a prophecy, or did he mean
“in”?
v- *
Many a man when lie comes home late
and fails to remember what has happened,
would he glad if he and his wife could peace
it together.
* *
A Melbourne Argus writer has been de-
scribing spots associated with the Shaks-
peare family. Being a lady she refrained
from mentioning the “out damned spot.”
A SHEIK’S VIEW.
“A doctor lias advised that, contrary to the
general idea, chocolates make women slim.”
If choc’lates take the weight off those
Who unto them arc prone,
The girls I shout to picture-shows
Should soon be skin and bone.
Dor.
Does He Care?
Dear Miss Blix, —I am in love. The object
of my passion is a young man win; lives in
the next street, and, as I waylay him at
every opportunity, I cannot believe that he
is blind to liis good fortune. I strongly
resemble Mary Astor except for protruding
teeth, red hair and spectacles, and my s. d.
is overwhelming. Yet when I follow him
into a tram lie gets out at the next stop;
when I call at his home he makes an
excuse to leave the room; and he has ignored
all my hints about the joys of marriage.
The whole situation is inexplicable, and I
am puzzled as to what move I should make
next. —Doris.
Answer: This is an easy one, Doris.
Clearly there is some corrupt influence at
work —probably bribery. Get your local
member to have a Royal Commission
appointed to inquire into the matter. Govern-
ments are always ready to assist in this way,
as the money spent is not theirs, and the
newspapers and lawyers like it. Under
cross-examination he will no doubt admit
all, thus affording you the double pleasure of
seeing your unscrupulous rival shamed in
open court, and learning in the same public
manner of his love for yon. ,
Be firm, Doris, yet at the same time
maidenly; the combination is irresistible.
Belinda Blix.
* *
In Canada snowshoes are much worn in
the winter. In Melbourne just now, atish-
slioos are tin' tiling.
HIT IT FIRST SHOT.
MERCY: “I know what causes all the divorces.”
PERCY: “What?”
MERCY: “Matrimony.”
“No dividend has been paid since 1024.” —S. M.
Herald correspondent on Sydney timber business.
Anyhow, cheap foreign migration can
hardly be blamed. The Normans didn’t
start leaving home till 42 years later.
* *
LIE OF THE WEEK.
During the week-end a motor-cycle driven
by Blank Dash, 32, married, skidded and
overturned on the Great South-North- high-
way. Dash and a girl with him were in-
jured. The girl was Mr. Dash’s wife.
* *
According to a parson, “There is no
harm in using church halls for social gather-
ings if the ladies do not dress too modern ly.”
Yet when some poor girl gives an imitation
of a dress as unmodern as Eve’s, this sort of
cleric is the first to protest.
* *
According to a Sydney employer, when
tin; knock-off whistle blew a bricklayer
scraped the mortar off the brick he was hold-
ing and put it back. Labor leaders con-
sider that the man should be dealt with for
scraping off the mortar —he ought to have
dropped the brick.
* *
The average drunk makes me think of the
moon.
I've watched one get tighter and tighter,
And I’ve mostly been struck by this fact
pretty soon
That as he got full he got brighter.
Dob.
* #
A lady member of the Nellie Bramley co.
put out a fire in Brisbane with her mid-
Victorian skirts. The mid-Victorian girl
always was inclined to hide her light under
a bustle.
* *
“Britain having declared for Labor, the
Upper Chamber must give the new Govern-
ment sympathetic treatment,” a trade-union
leader says. In short, the Labor prayer is
“Lords help us.”
# *
FINIS.
“It was reported at various times that she was
to marry a Duke, a Prince and an English Earl. . . .
Assailed by the breath of scandal, she married the
Count, and went into seclusion.”
A icoman of ambitious mood
E’en to the foot of thrones may mount;
llut when the shades of scandal brood,
Of course she has to take the count
H. H.
How much pleasanter this country would
be if
Our agitators would go on strike.
The man who invented dumb waiters
would turn his attention to wives.
The “artists” who are always wailing
about the poor old mammy they left down
on the Mississippi would go back to her.
Jock Garden would refuse to be bailed out
when sent to gaol. D MfiM
H- *
There are complaints in Melbourne about
wireless dealers
who allow loud
speakers to roar
in their show-
rooms In fact,
they’re the talk
of the city.
# *
A Sydney
blind man, since
learning Braille,
has developed such
a mania for books
that he reads six
a week. A case
of a man under
a frightful sen-
tence surrender-
in g to his
Braille.
* *
A distressing
aspect of the
timber strike con-
cerns a Scot ■who
bought a timber
mill on the ground
that it was being
worked with free
labor.
* *
Bare legs are
likely to become
more and more
popular amongst
women tennis players. The spectators, how-
ever, may find it harder to bare.
* ¥
Sydney unionists objected to irreverent
treatment of a bust of King George at a
celebration by Communists last week. In
other words, the Communists may go on the
bust but not on the King’s bust.
* *
“Ho was out of employment when he met his
wife, who owned a suburban grocery business.”
A queer way for a man to get his tart in
life.
OH, FAR WORSE!
“Me ’usband was ’eld up comm’ ’ome on
pay-night!”
“’Eld up? Pooh! Mine was that bad he
had to be carried.”
One of the dogs at a Vic. coursing meet-
ing failed hopelessly in every event. Yet
it did not turn a hare.
TO A DERELICT.
Good old pals we used to be.
When wc were together,
Never did we disagree.
Now you’ve rcaclud your tether
People pass you with a frown;
Ridicule they mutter
As they see you lying down,
Helpless in the gutter!
Ifow I feel my heart-strings throb
Looking at you there,
Homeless and without, a job —
Broke beyond repair!
Once (ah! once) yon were esteemed
As a gloom-dispeller;
Held on high while rainstorms teemed,
And a perfect treasure deemed,
Faithful old umbrella.
DORIC.
HER HOUR.
The girl shaded lier eyes and gazed over
the illimitable desert. Horsemen were
approaching. Arab horsemen. At last!
She was about to drink her till of Desert
Love! Young, surpassingly beautiful, and
clad in becoming riding breeches and open-
necked shirt, she made a picture calculated
to stir the worst passions of any normal
Sheik. Thrilled to the maiTow she prepared
herself for her fate.
The cavalcade halted, and a burnoused
figure on a superb black horse detached
itself from the rest and galloped towards
lier. As he pulled his steed to its haunches
she modestly lowered her eyes. His re-
sponse was a flood of words in a strange
tongue. Why this gibberish? she asked
herself irritably. Why did lie m»r seize her.
then throw her across his saddle and
career over the desert? Why? Why?....
Again came that flood of strange words.
Yearningly she gazed at him. A fine man,
indeed, though sorely in need of a wash.
Imperiously she summoned an Arab re-
tainer. “Interpret for me,” she commanded,
“Tell me his Highness’s pleasure.”
“He say, lady.” said the degraded crea-
ture, “that at lie’s tent they are mooch
trouble with sand fleas. Ver’ bad fleas ;
ver’ bad bugs. ’Ow about, he say, if
lady spare ’im a tin of insectibane?” The
Sheik she now noticed was scratching him-
self frankly, violently.
And so Romance died for Gladwys Mal-
travers with the dying sun.
A.E.G.
OUR PASSION BUREAU.
Grannie and the Boy Friend.
Dear Miss Blix, —Some time ago my
grannie—known to the Society papers for
the past 40 years as “beautiful Evangeline
Rooin” —came to live with ns. All went well
at first, despite her habit of dropping cigar-
ette ends in the pianola and doing physical
jerks in view of the Methodist chapel.
But, latterly, she lias been paying marked
attention to my boy friend.
He is a dear thing, and is
still, I am sure, devoted to
me at heart. However, I
am beginning to feel that I
cannot compete with her
either in girlish charm and
energy, or in the even more
winsome matter of ready
cash. She took him to the
pictures to-night for the
third time this week, and I
shudder to think of what
may be going on even as I
write these lines. What
should I do? — Broken-
hearted Peggy.
Answer: Sool the dog on
lier. There is no more dan-
gerous rival for a pure
young girl than a modern
grandmother. If, however,
she has laid her plans so well
that you find it impossible
to drive her from your home
—as I fear, from my wide
experience of such schemers,
is all too probable—then I
would recommend an inno-
cent strategy which pro-
duced highly satisfactory re-
sults in a similar case to
yours in Wow (Ohio) in the
fall of ’27.
Choose a night when
she has retired, and your recalcitrant
admirer is in the neighborhood, and
set the home on fire. As the flames
reach her room, rush to your boy friend
and implore him to rescue her. If he
reaches her before she lias time to remove
lier anti-wrinkle apparatus, insert her false
teeth, apply her “Bloomo” for the cheeks
and “Gleemo” for the hair, you should win
him back.
It is largely a question of organisation.
BELINDA BLIX.
CLIMAX.
The hungry envy 'those to riches born,
Find wealthy gluttons o’er their ailments
mourn, . ,
Through all this whirligig of griefs and
fears
We curse aloud, or shed regretful teats.
But what can match the drinker’s anguished
state „
When pub doors bang, and barmaids yell
“Too late!"
D. McM.
VISITORS.
We’ve white ants in the bedroom suite.
Slim silver-fisli abound;
'Flic moths bore through our carpets,
And rats are all around.
We’ve borers in the Baby Grand
To cap our other cares,
Yet still the things that bore us most,
Are those that use our chairs!
D.R. C.


99
U7ie Pul1/iQ 'Preference
-a
■ :
Wl
iVJ
tffr'yy
ps&gr.#
■« r n
V.J
w
rV
<>W;
WlSlp?
E I
; 'C
to
n
-srv i
N
* 1
.
I
w.
$
\\
"UK
m
gv&ii
m
te&T .'v
1
V
H
■
C>>
£2-W-:i
f5*
V *V?
"3
s>
w
b**‘ ff: ;
sr-
r
gorge
IV
ff
(gold label)


Don’t risk infection
m
■
">■ Babv NEVILLE
WILLM^TT.
" v His mother writes .- ‘
think Rexona Ointment
be\ond comparison.
■y
vJI
r
o
%
&
VS
o.
%
£
cfc<2-
?r
£
CUE
<2r
m
<93
c--o
I ili
/ ,
MF
\ w
\ \\
V _' ,
I /
,v ,>" x
kfeA. }
H**
r- s
W
~">w
K
*
ITT&
i” i •*■ m r i
- » r| * / P®
-rr< -
FRANCIS
ssa« ,rs sr«
»'».&*& A";
great
hE A.LE«
/
Every cut, every scratch, no matter
how small and unimportant it may
seem is a possible source of infeamn
that may lead to a serious trouble.
Take every precaution with even the
minutest tear in the sk '"' k “P 1
clean and dress it with Rexona.
Rexona contains a combination of
the most antiseptic, soothing an
healing properties known to science
It immediately destroys the harmfu
verms which may be present, and
Speeds the growth of a new, healt y
Skin. If you w i th c . h ;j p t
hands try Rexona-rub a little m
frequently during the day, alway
after washing, and upon retiring.
You will find that it keeps the
hands soft and supple.
Keep a tin of Rexona always handy-
in the home, workshop, everywhere,
and use it for cuts, burns, bruises
and all the little daily injuries.


m
DYNAMIC LOUD SPEAKERS
r I ’HE Dynamic Speaker covers
* the entire audible scale, ren-
dering all notes, all instruments
with next-to-perfect fidelity. No
other instrument goes farther (nor,
perhaps so far) in reproducing
sound so true to the original.
UNITS ONLY FROM £7/157-
CABINET MODELS FROM £lO
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL RADIO DEALERS
WHOLESALE & RETAIL DISTRIBUTORS IN ALL STATES.
*1
In every stitch of" a "Rameno”
Brand “Merino-Knit” Cardigan
or Sweater there is quality, in
every colour attractiveness. Each
garment is correct in shape and
of just the right tension to fit
the figure and yet give freely to
all movements of the limbs.
n "Merino -Knit
Ks/i Always Fif
Discriminating men realise that
it is better to purchase high-grade
garments —'Knitted Fabrics of
that keep shape
and wear indefinitely. Ask your
Mercer, then, for "Rameno”
Brand "Merino-Knit” Cardigans
and Sweaters.
M 36
K
m
■
1
:
S. P. England, the Victorian
Tennis Coach, wears
“ Rameno” Brand “Merino-
Knit" Sports Garments .
m
RAMENO"
ERINOKNIT
* RAMENO ’ Brand
CARDIGANS L SWEATERS
Made only by MERINO WOOLLEN MILLS PTY. LTD.,
Collingwood, N 5, Vic., Specialists in Men’s High-Grade Knitted
Cardigans and Sweaters, HalF Hose and GolF Hose.
oAsk Your Mercer for " %ameno” Brand "Merino-Knit” Wear
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
An Ideal Winter Home —The Most Sheltered Spot on the Harbor, with Private Beach and
Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort—Excellent Cuisine and Service. Spacious Grounds
and Garage Accommodation.
Winter Tariff from 4| guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines).
Pen and Picture
Shadow Shows
“In New
Guinea Wilds”
(Oriental and
Oceanic Films,
Melbourne) is a
fascinating pic-
ture. It is the
first attempt
to film Papua
and the Mandated Territory comprehensively,
and William J. Jackson travelled 7000 miles
and occupied two years in the enterprise.
Jackson accompanies liis pictures with a
lecture, though his eye might have gone
deeper than his camera and tapped the world
of curious beliefs and customs beneath the sur-
face of savage society. Through this fine per-
formance the Australian gets an opportunity
of realising the immense size and variety of
his empire, and it says less than nothing for
the sapience of his film censorship that child-
ren between 6 and 16, while they are allowed
to flock to se;e vicious cabaret scenes,
idiotic crook plays, sexodramas and other
imported imbecilities, have been forbidden
access to this home-made and entrancing pic-
ture. The Bulletin man temporarily
adopted the attitude of the profoundest wow-
ser of his acquaintance and failed to find any-
thing that might possibly offend the creature.
“The Patriot” (Paramount), the main
offering in the assorted opening bill of Syd-
ney State Theatre, is a masterpiece of
screen acting. In it Emil Jannings, as
Paul I. of Russia, gives one of the greatest
as well as one of the cruellest character
portrayals this Showman has seen on the
movies. The story is simply a slight excuse
for the performance. Jannings, long-haired
and wild-eyed as the mad Czar, goes in con-
stant fear of his life, and it is because of the
remarkable representation of this fear and
madness that
FLORENCE VIDOR.
t. h e picture
is so far ahead
of the ruck. It
is not conven-
tional in any
w a y. T h e
scenes are pre-
sented jerkily,
and there is
actually a de-
mand on the
intelligence to
follow the
movements of
the story and
to appreciate
exactly what
was told
when it is
over. Lewis
Stone gives a
sterling per-
formance as
Count Pa h-
len, on the
horns of a dilemma through having sworn
to dethrone the Czar, while lie is sympathetic
with the pathetic lunatic, and Florence Vidor
is convincing in a jealousy role. Judged by
the usual standards of movie entertaining
power, the picture would fail. The great
interest is not love; the story is severely
tragic, with scarcely a light touch m the
whole length of it. But it represents art
in movie-making; it is the kind of work
that sticks in the memory indefinitely. Sound
effects are used once when the Czar cries
out in frenzy and also to suggest the rushing
and noise of crowds. Otherwise the picture
is silent.
On the day that Hollywood starts to
laugh at itself in the way that Cervantes
laughed at Spain and Rabelais at France,
a new renaissance will dawn on the
other side of the Pacific and no doubt spread
to the rest of the moving-picture-going world.
In the meantime the nearest we can get to
that sort of cleansing self-analysis is “Show
People” (M.-G.-M.). “Show People” is dis-
appointing not for what it does but because
of the hint it gives of wliat it might have
done but jibbed at. There is priceless comedy
to be made out of what actually goes on
behind the scenes in that grotesque amuse-
ment factory, where entertainment is turned
out like Ford cars by a strange new type of
actor who never sees an audience, for audi-
ences that never see a living actor; and such
audiences —Australians, Englishmen, French-
men, Hottentots, Sun Dyaks, Booloodoopies
and Chinamen! Marion Davies is a humble
girl who catches the prevalent filmania and
unexpectedly succeeds in being accepted as a
star. She finds that all is artificiality behind
the scenes —as if any actress would worry
about that—and after reaching the brink of
matrimony with a superman of the celluloid
flees back to the honest bosom of her low-
comedian lover. A farce occasionally a little
above average.
Though the main trend of the plot is
rather obvious, the ending a bit blatant and
the picture as a whole has the unevenness
common to most talkies, “The Wolf of Wall-
street” (Paramount) is a really good enter-
tainer. It is made so by the vigorous act-
ing of George Bancroft; Olga Baclanova,
his chief support, is given no chance to ex-
hibit her powers of expressing violent feel-
ings, and has little else to do save leave her
lip-salve on the earlobe of her surreptitious
lover. Bancroft, as a Wall-street “wolf,”
is the husband—one of those hard, shrewd
business men they breed so well in America.
He is carrying half a dozen or so up with
him to fortune by speculation, boasting
meanwhile that no man can beat him. How-
ever, his wife, w r ho has graduated into Ameri-
can aristocracy from the circus, is piqued
by his vulgarities and clumsy love-making,
and she snares as a lover one of his group.
The picture talks on for a reel or so while
he is building up the fortune, with noisy
scenes from the Stock Exchange, and asides
revealing how big deals are carried through
and how the suckers do in their good coin.
Among the suckers is the beau of one of
Bancroft’s maids, and he goes to gaol for
embezzlement over the deal. Bancroft, just
about to make a great killing, goes home to
his wife with a present, meets the maid leav-
ing and is told just where he lives, not to
mention where his partner lives. It is his
revenge that is clumsy—he allows himselt
to be broken so that his wife’s lover may be
broken too, and then shoos them out of the
house. Bancroft makes a tine study of a
shrewd vulgarian, giving way to a strong
temptation to overact only at the very end,
when he breaks into loud, ironic, quite
unnecessary laughter.
The Palette
Six months or so back this Page spoke
about the attractive etchings of J. C. Good-
hart, of Broken Hill, whose work had just
made a stir at Adelaide’s annual art show.
Lately friends drove him to send two Broken
Hill mine studios to the Paris Salon, and
both were accepted—no artist is permitted to
show more than two. Goodhart, a business
man who makes etching a hobby, has special-
ised in mine-surface views, and has sur-
prised many more than local inhabitants by
showing what fine etching material these
things are. Incidentally, Sydney artists are
offered similar or even greater opportunities
in the uncompleted Harbor Bridge.
“F.S.”: After much pressure from out-
side, the Felton Bequest people sent a few
pieces from their collection of Chinese cera-
mics to the British Museum for verification.
The London experts declared them genuine,
but stated that they were poor examples of
the periods they were supposed to represent,
and that the price paid for them was too
high. This seems to be a trouble with the
Vic. National Gallery’s ambitions to catch
up’with the great collections of Europe. Its
purse, though big, is not deep enough to
compete with the Americans in the acquisi-
tion of first-rate work. Consequently we get
pretentious mediocrity—and pay through the
nose for that.
Current Melbourne shows cover the whole
history of depictive art, except perhaps the
stone-age period. The show at Leonard House
is by Ahron Halevy, who was born at Reho-
both, Palestine, and has evidently gone to
ancient Byzantium for his inspiration. lie
has been a year in Australia, but
still faithfully reproduces the simplicity
reflected in the diction of the Old Testa-
ment. G. Rikard Schjelderup (New Gal-
lery), the Norwegian, prefers the early days
of the Italian Renaissance, when painters
were just beginning to awaken to the sig-
nificance of form but were blissfully unaware
of the existence of Rme. One is momentarily
surprised by his pictures, just as one would
be astonished by the spectacle of the Com-
monwealth Bank putting up a wattle-and-dab
but to house its business in Collins-street.
Local connoisseurs affect to see a new reve-
lation in his work, but it is as old as Giotto.
William Rowell (Athenaeum) is the only
one who paints in what might be described
as an historically grown-up manner. He
does scene-painting for the Capitol, which
pi-obably explains why some of his color
looks as if it had paid one visit too many
to the confectionery shop; but he is also a
follower at a respectful distance of Max Mel-
drum, which explains why he has captured
so beautifully the subtleties of the Australian
atmosphere in such canvases as “Foggy
Morning, Blackburn.”
The Inky Way
The most unwelcome little packet that
came into The Bulletin office last week
was a sort of formal announcement from
Croydon (N.Q.) that the local Mining
News had been driven at last to close down.
In the days when Croydon was the richest
goldfield in Australia the Mining News
could have washed down its formes with
champagne. But even when money flowed in
like that it was always a manly paper, with
its kindest word for the underdog, most of
Croydon having been underdog itself. In
rather less prosperous days John Plumper
Hoolan came along. He was just what his
name sounded like, and Brisbane Parlia-
ment loved him in the few years he was
there. (He led one of the wings of the Labor
party of that day.) Next W. S. (“Stock-
whip”) Murphy came in, and had about a
quarter of a century of the paper and 10
years or more in the House. But Croydon
didn’t tend to make a man obedient to party,
and “Stockwhip” went back to the dying
town and the dying paper. He made
a game fight—for years he has been an
invalid—but with a partner, Miss O’Dowd,
be has managed to battle through till now.
The end of this month sees the last issue.
H. E. Sizer, who followed the Queensland
Inky Way into State politics and is now
Moore’s Minister of Labor and Industry,
appointed another Inky Wayfarer, Tom
Thatcher, his secretary. Thatcher was sec.
to Arthur Morgan, then Lieut.-Gov.; later
he was on the Daily Mail. He got within
18 votes of unseating Labor. Minister Kir-
wan in Brisbane at the late*elections.
“C.A.8.” : With the advent of T. M. Shake-
speare, M.L.C., the Canberra Times has
become more of a family concern than any
other daily in Australia. T.M. himself is
general manager; A.T., his son. is editor;
J.W., another son, is accountant; C. J.. the
third son, is in charge of the mechanical side
of the business, and Miss Shakespeare is her
father’s secretary. And the office was built
by another Shakespeare, a brother of T.M.
CONCURRENCE.
The editors and I are chaps
Who very often can’t agree,
A fact that’s due in part ( perhaps)
To my crass inability
To manufacture jeux-d’esprit
That glow with wit and throb with life.
And so the w.p.b.
Or homing post engenders strife.
But there’s a point on which we both—
The editorial chaps and I
Meet upon common ground, my oath !
Our views have no diversity
When safely on their homeward fly
My modest offerings are set;
With perfect unanimity
The editors (and I) “regret.”
N.s.w.
HOMFREY BEALE.


The Only New Thrill
in Motoring
Graham'Paige owners often say that the only
new motoring thrill they have enjoyed in recent
years is the distinguished performance of four
speeds forward (two high speeds —standard gear
shift) The smoothness and swiftness of fourth,
used most of the time, and the rapid accelera'
tion of third, a quiet internal gear, can only be
appreciated by personal experience. We invite
you to drive one of the new sixes or eights.
jJtS-anyk. $
c-jtnS
Model 827 Five-Passenger Sedan
(
&aaaam
PAl£r£P
Graham-Paige offers a variety of body types,
including Roadsters, Cabriolets, Coupes and
Sport Phaetons, on five chasses, in sixes and eights
—at a wide range of prices. All are equipped
with four speeds forward except Model 612.
Graham-Paige Distributors , Australia and New Zealand:
QUEENSLAND MOXON MOTORS, LTD.
NEW SOUTH WALES W. H. LOBER & CO., LTD.
VICTORIA WALTER WHITBOURN PTY., LTD.
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AUSTRALIA . . . . MAUGHAN THIEM MOTOR CO., LTD.
WEST AUSTRALIA ARTHUR BALES, LIMITED.
TASMANIA TWIN-TOP MOTORS PTY., LTD.
WRIGHT, STEPHENSON & CO., LTD.
AAAMAM-PAI&£
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO
CHRONIC BACKACHE
KIDNEY TROUBLE IS THE CAUSE OF YOUR PAIN!
THIS FAMOUS 40-YEAR-OLD REMEDY HAS BROUGHT HEALTH TO THOUSANDS
IT WILL SURELY BENEFIT YOU
Short, sharp stabbing pains in the back when you rise
from bed, real torture to straighten the body after
stooping, these are sure signs of dangerous kidney trouble.
Poisons and harmful bacteria are being stored up in the
blood, which are causing a state of inflammation in the
muscles and joints—that is why you have pain.
If you are tortured by Lumbago, Sciatica or the dreadful scourge
of Rheumatism, it is no use rubbing your body with ointments when
the trouble is in your blood. Until you prompt the kidneys to
filter out the pain-giving poisons, you cannot bope to be rid of
body and nerve-wracking pain. The quickest, surest means of
banishing chronic Backache, Lumbago, Sciatica or Rheumatic
pains is a short course with the world-famous 40-year-old remedy,
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills.
This is the evidence of not one but thousands of those who owe
health, vitality and strength to this preparation, which sells by
the millions of bottles throughout the world.
<T.
IS>
<r
s
gw
o-
<2>
n<
:
sS
<4,
w 3
- -
#
*?*
*Oo
Ca^ c
-, nl
Jh
Many once bed-ridden for months, many
who say life has been one lon
misery of pain and sufferin
have banished that
y> to
misery for good—
thanks to De
Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills.
They cost so little
yet work such
wonders.
Sufferers from the chronic, crippling pain of Sciatica, Lumbago
or Rheumatism, the days when you had to spend hard-earned
money experimenting with ointments, plasters and potions you
‘■‘hoped” would help you are past. There is no need to sit in
dreadful pain "wondering” if your body-torturing, brain-racking
trouble can be banished. There is no need to waste money on
unknown preparations.
We are convinced that with the genuine remedy, De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills, taken regularly, your suffering will quickly
end. For 40 years De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills have been
invaluable for all forms of deep-seated Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Uric Acid, Kidney Trouble and Bladder Weakness.
Because of their enormous popularity, De Witt’s Pills have been
imitated. For your own sake—that is if you wish to get back
health quickly and surely—definitely refuse such substitutes.
If you are troubled with Backache, Lumbago, Sciatica,
Rheumatism, go to your chemist now and get a 3/6 bottle
or 6/6 size (the large, full month’s treatment) and end
your trouble for good. In 24 hours from the very first
dose of “De Witt’s” you will see and know they are doing
you good. Persevere, your pain will be banished and
splendid health, vigor and vitality restored.
tryryrty
L
tryryrty
'-CCIt
- 'VI II
I »
pe
KIDNEY
& BLADDER
PILLS
THE REMEDY WITH THE DEFINITE GUARANTEE.


Modern Service
describes in just two words the
real efficiency with which
“Scott’s” is conducted—efficiency
that places it foremost amongst
Australia’s residential hotels.
Electric fires, hot and cold water, inter-
communicating and direct line ’phones in
bedrooms; many bedrooms with separate
baths.
Inclusive Tariff by Day or Bed and
Breakfast Rate.
Scott’s Hotel
Collins Street, Melbourne
Telegrams and Cables: “Scottsotel,”
Melbourne.
Telephone: Cent. 9010 (Ten Lines).
% • •/.*.* %•:jr/^ *.•.«"' “
' V***. v
?jyok
ES&B
Wc
tryryrty
Welcome the Coming—Speed the Parting Guest with
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
AUSTRALIA'S BEST BITTER,
RESCH’S SYDNEY BITTER BEER.
Ask for Resch’s by Name.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The meeting at Rosehill on Saturday pro-
vided some nice consolation prizes for owners
of horses that had been running promi-
nently without winning. In that category
were Nolens Yolens, who dead-heated with
Killarney (each being 6 to 1) in the first
division of the Flying Welter ; Crown Area,
who had a hollow victory in the second
division; Wedding Eve (6 to 1), who car-
ried top weight to a pronounced success
in the June Handicap; and Loud Praise
(7 to 1), who captured the Granville Stakes
for Joe Cook (not the ex-politician) and
James Carr. After the first; division of the
Welter, the stewards reported that Killarney
had come out wide and interfered to some
extent with Nolens Volens, which suggests
that a protest would have been unfortunate
for Moss, Killarney’s new owner, who backed
his horse all round the ring; but protest
there was none.
Crown Area’s brilliance suggested Epsom
Handicap possibilities, but the handicapper
is apt to keep the Maoriland gelding on the
safe side. And Wedding Eve’s performance
enhanced the merit of Inducement’s achieve-
ment in the A.J.C. Winter Stakes, for the
little bay mare is right at the top of her
form. She put in a great run in the straight,
passing horse after horse, and came home
clear of honest Gwillian G. (10 to 1) and
unlucky Tresillian (8 to 1) in 2min. 19£sec.
—capital time for 11 furlongs with 9st. up.
Aorangi, tried for the first time over the
distance, did rather well, and would probably
have got a place if his rider hadn’t decided
to do the pacemaking
There was some yelping from a section of
the grandstand crowd when William Kelso’s
grey colt Gleaner, trained by his son Jack,
pipped Urangarra in the second division in
the Juvenile Stakes. The half-brother to
Bairn had run indifferently at Randwick. On
that occasion he was ridden by the stable
jockey and got away badly. A change to
Munro and a No. 1 marble made all the
difference. There was obviously little money
for him, as he drifted from fours to sevens;
and he was a bit fortunate to beat Uran-
gai-ra (7 to 2), who was badly interfered
with. Tindall, who owns and trains Uran-
garra, had been successful with Goldminer
(3 to 1) in the first division, and played up
his winnings. His Shankara (10 to 1) was
likewise narrowly defeated by Short Order
(10 to 1) in the Three-year-old Handi-
cap, in which first, second, Staroff (third)
and Greencorn (fourth) figured in a very
exciting finish. Both Goldminer and Short
Order are by imported Paper Money, and
both are above the average.
* * * *
For Moorefield on Saturday:—
Flying Welter: Garrula; next, Energique.
Kogarah Stakes: Spearshot; next, Glas-
gow.
Moorefield Handicap: Nobbys; next,
Prince Colugo or Blather.
Rockdale Mile: Prince Colugo or Sharp
Son; next, Waipori.
Hi ' Hi Hi Hi
Tiki, favorite for the Grand National
Hurdle race, registered his first success over
the battens in the Maiden Hurdle at Wil-
liamstown last Saturday. Twelve months ago
Longlands took this event and the National
as well. History promises to repeat itself,
the only difference being that Longlands was
an outsider at Flemington, whereas Harry
Connolly’s prad is at cramped odds already.
When allowed to stretch out, Tiki soon left
the opposition, and, taking obstacles in his
stride, won as he liked from two imported
rivals, Red Devil and F'aircroft. The Irish-
bred 2Eneas was prominent early, but
punctured before half the journey was over.
Tiki won the V.R.C. Birthday Handicap
(I*l miles) pn June 3; he revealed jumping
ability last winter, and has been kept in
reserve -ever since. Connolly has a private
schooling track at Bayswater.
The course record for two miles was equalled
by Tiki, and Baldini (2 to I) took a quarter-
second off it in the Port Phillip Hurdle. Argu-
ment has arisen as
to which was the
better performance.
The Bulletin
scribe casts his
vote for Tiki,, who
took the lead after
going six furlongs,
and was on the bit
thereafter. Baldini
had the benefit of
pace provided by
Marwa and Broad-
blade. Admittedly
he cut them down
in handsome style,
but if the judge’s
box had been ten
lengths farther
away Valbee might
have been first in-
stead of second.
Valbee trailed the
field as it left the
straight, and gave
Baldini a tremen-
dous start over the
concluding h a l.f-
mile. Both Cob-
ranveil and Long-
lands disappointed
their supporters;
the form of Long-
lands was especi-
ally wretched.
* • •
Tli 9 Steeplechase
went to Flavren, a
jumper that came
from Tasmania last
year and now is
raced conjointly by
J. A. Macleod (of
the V.R.C. com-
mittee) and C. F.
Taylor (Victorian
Club committee).
R. N. Harris rush-
ed across from
Sydney to ride Wil-
lanjie, who opened
favorite, but was
deposed by Junot
King. Latter dwelt so long at the
post that his pursuit of the field was un-
availing, if brave; he was a good thing
beaten. Willanjie looked a possibility at the
final fence, but encountered trouble there
and accepted defeat. Flavren (7 to 1) scored
by half a length from Bright Flare (20 to 1),
who put in a cyclonic finish. Bright Flare
hasn’t had much experience over stiff timber,
but ought to make liis mark as a ’chaser.
Division of the Juvenile Handicap length-
ened the programme to seven events. Ample
Time credited T. M. Burke with the first
heat of the youngsters’ race, backed from 5
to 1 to 3 to 1. F. S. Meyers planked his cash
on Cara vena for the second division. The
Caravel filly wasn’t well served at the start,
and had to be content with third to Win-
danno (20 to 1) and Phocis. Winner is in
the -same stable as Valbee, but belongs to a
different owner.
The middle-distance Point Cook Handicap
fell to Glynylln (11 to 2), whose name is
seldom pronounced with even approximate
accuracy by the pencillers. A frantic rush
for New Hope in the Esplanade Welter spent
itself abruptly, and Darcy Eccles’s horse
was ousted from favoritism by Seventh
Heaven (7 to 4), who won as he liked, New
Hope being afforded a good view of the
finish.
H: He $ sj:
For Caulfield on Saturday:—
Toolambool Hurdle: Tiki; next, Iventle.
Wanda Steeplechase: Sandhurst; next,
Nyangay.
He * He $
“Let Go”: A packet of Townsville (N.Q.)
money went into the bags of the odds mer-
chants when Freebooter missed a place in
the Epsom Mile at the final day’s racing of
the Q.T.C. The neddy from the North was
backed as if the race was all over, but it
was not his day out, and he finished in the
ruck. Nevertheless, in Freebooter and Bern-
field, Talbot Heatley, of Townsville, has a
pair of gallopers who are bound to pay
their way in the best Brisbane company.
* * * *
“Adelaide” : For once, and most unexpect-
edly, visitors from other States, who are
principally Victorians, took very little out
of Adelaide as a result of the early-winter
round of meetings—only £2500 from S. A.
Jockey Club and Adelaide R. C. together.
Finsbury, after a second in the Birthday
Cup, captured the Alderman Cup, but, with
even Fourth Hand beaten out of a place
at weight-for-age, the invasion was curiously
unprofitable. Scobie and Lewis, who gen-
erally have such a good time, won only
one race each in the six days.
* * * :|:
“Amateur Urgcr”: Australia, which has
experienced an epidemic of “ring ins” of late
PAINLESS EXTRACTION NOT GUARANTEED.
ABSENT-MINDED DENTIST: “Now this is going to hurt a bit, but
I won't be more than a minute.”
both in horse- and dog-racing circles, might
do worse than consider the action recently
taken by the American Jockey Club in re-
gard to registration of thoroughbred stock.
Registration forms now include outlines of
the horse, with a separate one of its head.
On these outlines the applicant for regis-
tration must set down the location of every
distinguishing mark, specifying if these are
white or of other color.
* * * *
“R. Volt”*: The time it took the Derby
result to reach Australia sounds almost in-
credible. In less than 20 seconds of Trigo
passing the post a beam operator in Mel-
bourne was reading out the winners. A
fraction of a second later a cable operator
on the other side of Collins-street was call-
ing out the names. The cables plugged
through all the way from London to Adel-
aide to perform the miracle.
❖ ❖ ❖ H*
“Two Bob Each Way” : I often wonder why
the police bother to interfere with starting-
price betting when so many obstacles are
placed in their way. State Governments
seem to take the attitude that the occasional
capture of s.-p. operators yields revenue, and
to put a stop to the business would be poor
economy. And consider the Commonwealth
Government and its telephones. At most
N.S.W. country racecourses, and on one in
! particular that I know very well, the telephone
service is so good that the books are able
to bet on Sydney races as well as if they and
their clients were on the metropolitan course.
They get lists of starters, the state of the
early betting, and particulars of all changes
and moves; and the result comes to hand so
quickly that wireless sets beat them by only
a few seconds. At the betting shops in
the towns the same excellent service is avail-
able to bookmakers, who don’t pay taxes: on
pony days the rapidity with which these
gentry learn scratehings, betting and re-
sults is staggering. If they and their kind
were deprived of telephone facilities a great
blow would be struck at the s.-p. game, and
Parliament should certainly inquire why it
isn’t done.
* * * *
“Knavcsmire”: The first tote seen in Eng-
land for 60 years functioned at the Burstow
meeting, a small affair in Surrey, the other
day. The machine used was a small port-
able affair, of the kind familiar in South
Australia, and the odds were a long way
better than the Tommies offered. It is doubt-
ful if the big courses will see the machine
in action this year, the erection of the build-
ings promising to take up too much time.
However, Doncaster Town Council has pro-
mised to have its installation ready for
the Leger, and the Tykes are generally men
of their word.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
A rising young lightweight is Bobby
Delaney, who scored a convincing win over
Sammy Shack at the Sydney Stadium on
Saturday night, outpointing him in 15
rounds. Like most Yankee pugs, Shack is
nothing if not tough. At times he did well
with straight lefts and solid right crosses,
but he was a long way boliind on points
at the finish. The fourth was a particu-
larly torrid round for Samuel; Delaney
belted him all over the ring and had him
down for nine seconds, and yet Shack was
fighting back hard at the bell. lie got even
in the ninth round by dropping Delaney
with a rip to the body, but the following
round must have seemed like a nightmare to
him, and Delaney continued to be the aggres-
sor till the final bell. Robert is the
makings of a rattling good fighter if bad
matchmaking doesn’t spoil him. Shack scaled
Ost. 21b. and Delaney Ost. lib. Fred Baker
officiated as referee in the absence of Joe
Wallis, the stout and jovial Joseph being ill.
* *
A colored importation in Jim Mollette
(lOst. 41b.) was unfortunate in drawing Jack
Carroll (lOst. 71b.) for his first Australian
appearance. The white boy was in fine
form, and though the coon battled hard and
showed a good knowledge of his profession,
he never had a chance. Round after round
he assimilated Jack’s straight left, and any-
thing else that came his way, with fortitude;
but a particularly torrid 12th led to the
slaughter being stopped. Wrestlers, on being
introduced, got the “bird” from the small
crowd.
* * * *
A prominent American boxer who is
unique in that he is the only deaf mute
among the big stuff is Dummy Mahan. He
cannot hear the gong at the end of the
round, so the referee takes out a white hand-
kerchief and waves it in front of the boxers.
In the early part of his career he used to
tell the end of the round by watching for
his opponent to relax. That method had to
be discarded, because the opposition tumbled
and relaxed when the round was half-over.
The instant Dummy dropped his guard he
was thumped on the chin.
Footbrawl
The outstanding feature of Saturday’s Vic.
League game between undefeated Colling-
wood and Melbourne’s Fuchsias, watched by
30,000 persons, was the calm confidence of
the Magpies. Playing methodically, they
held their opponents comfortably till at half-
time they owned 54 points to Melbourne’s
20. On resuming the Red Legs staged some
whirlwind dashes that brought them to with-
in 10 points, yet the ’Woodmen never seemed
disturbed. In the last term they added
goal after goal, running out winners
with 83 to Melbourne’s 59. A more
exciting game happened at Richmond,
where the Tigers, with cleaner hand-
ling, better marking and decent system, led
Geelong throughout. In the last quarter the
seasiders forced their score up steadily, but
couldn’t quite get there: Richmond 93, Gee-
long 85. Hawthorn deserves special men-
tion for its first victory in two seasons ; it
handed a sound walloping to South Mel-
bourne, 108 to 79. St. Kilda, always strong
on its own ground, got the better of a very
willing scuffle with Footscray, 92 to 61:
Carlton swept the turf 4 with North Mel-
bourne, accumulating 107 to 52; and Essen-
don made an exhibition of Fitzroy, 133
to 80.
(Continued on page J[l.)
CRAMPED HIS STYLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Harry Mason, known as ‘the Admirable Crichton
of the Kin",’ spoke bitterly to the Johannesburg Stau
of his Australian experiences. Boxing shows in
Australia must be seen to be believed, said Mason;
personally he could not fight in an atmosphere of
beer and bad language.”
Their blinking stadiums reek of malt and
hops
(lie said), and hum with hiccoughs born
of beer.
How can a pug manipulate his props
Effectively in such an atmosphere? •
How land a yvattlesnoozer on the ear
Or a hard wallop to the plexus swing
And otherwise live up to his career
As Admirable Crichton of the Ring?
I’ll take my gruel uncomplainingly,
Accept my bellyful, nor whip the cat,
But being cautioned by a referee
Upon whose breath a chap could hang his
hat
Is overmuch. Whoever’d stand for that,
Pride in his calling to the winds must fling,
A stigma that was never levelled at
An Admirable Crichton of the Ring.
Bloodcurdling oaths and harrowing blas-
phemies
From all around are bellowed, howled arid
roared,
Such flow’rs of speech as even Thames bargees
In these enlightened days could scarce
afford,
And old-time M.F.II.’s had abliorr’d;
And missiles worse than words the. ruffians
fling.
Twice, while I scrapped, a bottle nearly
floored
This Admirable Crichton of the Ring.
Take it from me, I offer no excuse
For being bashed —that never left a sting.
’Twas just the dreadful reek of malted juice,
The tides of fierce profanity let loose,
Upset the applecart and cooked the goose
Of this once O.K. right ’un of the Ring.
N.S.W,
IFORD.


tryryrty
I*"**
f
R
ILIIIIIIIIIH!
mm
W/J rurM?/
m
iWMt
T* o "*
u»u a ««•*
m
m
IV //>«»..
Wj
S 8
Dn*««“
THE OLDEST HORSE
IN THE WORLD!
ESTABLISHED 1742
Whitehorse
Whisky
<Ti
1.1
Screw-cap Bottles.
No Corkscrew Required.


GILT-EDGED SECURITY
FOR ALL MOTORISTS.
“Silver Edge”
(for tourers)
BRAKE
MOULDED LINING
(in sets) for special
braking systems.
fAI
r i
w
“Gold Edge”
(heavy duty )
LINING
CLUTCH FACINGS
AND SEGMENTS.
WON’T FAIL YOU!
RAYBESTOS BELACO LTD.
LONDON.
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Melb.
Winchester Rifle, Model 56.
22-Cal. Long Rifle only
Handles well
and
Shoots well.
tryryrty
The Rifle
for Small Game
Price, £5. Post free to all parts of
Australia.
The Gun House,
COWLES <a DUNN
453 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Catalogue B.
PLAY FOR MONEY"?
bERT:‘ , 'NHY, CERTAoNUY."
<S|ERT:“HOVM THRILLINGITUEN YOU ARE
A PROFESSIONAL PLAYER?"
DEAR Gt'gL. NO \"
GiERT ; " But You SWO You
PLAYED FOR MONEY.'
Bert: 'Mtu., so \ 00-. „
H*n'PEHNY n\p I
Footbrawl
Over 13,000 people passed through the
turnstiles at the Sydney Cricket Ground on
Saturday when a comparatively mexpen-
enced Victorian XV met an excellent N. S.
Wales side with a strong infusion of Wara-
tahs. No one expected the invaders to win,
and they didn’t win, but they battled man-
fully, tackled well, and had decidedly the
better of the last half-hour’s play, after the
scores had been 12 to nil at half-time. At
the end N. S. Wales had 20 to 8, and the
crowd voted it a decidedly good game. The
Welshmen were well served by half-back
Malcolm, by Morrison, the Police centre
(until he was hurt), and the forwards,
™S.<Ss eC “'ori'a'fK 1 we a te L Cowper CO '‘a
dashimr centre • Sturtridge the five-eightli-
S’“e Ur Saciir to a tick U ' i>aok W " h * ,yPI "
cal Vic. capac y . .
on SMurdav week but been
unexpectedly omitted in favor of Lamport,
TTni half have Crossman George
and Louden, who" figure among the reserves,
together with Morrison. All the same, the
selected side is strong, and the All Blacks,
who will be in strict training before the
end of the week, will have their work out
to whin it
*'* * *
ira™,, iR was
Nituc . Jimmy Flynn (B. 5/ / )
cfftaHftfie R file
Sams in 'l2, 08 and 'A Any JLy.r ever
When the Union game faded out in Queens-
land (it has come back strongly, and he is
helping as selector) he played League for
two seasons
* ' * * *
“Adsum” • The National league authori-
He« in Westralia finrl themselves un against
a new Zd KfpSSSd oSJSSSa & Rugby
Union. It revived with a ban S
and has such vimnov teams are being
to it WiS Pm nrosnect of
?i?anised to play it. r> tt
international „ames next > • •
seems to promise some concern for the
N,Ja “ lk - * * *
The slump in attendances at Rugby League
matches must be worrying League official-
dom; giving up the Sydney Cricket Ground
has proved a very bad move. There were
only about 5000 spectators at the North
Sydney-Newtown tussle on Saturday, though
it was pronounced the match of the day. A
hard game in which there was a lot of illegal
hoofing and plain stoush ended with New-
town on top—l 4 to 12. South Sydney,
whicli, as usual, has a strong lead in the
competition, overwhelmed Uni.—very weak
this year—by 29 to 9; and Western Suburbs
trounced Glebe by 17 to 12, though it lost
the services of the veteran Craig—a broken
finger. The surprise of the day was Bal-
main’s defeat of Eastern Suburbs, 23 to 8,
for Balmain had previously done badly. Dur-
ing the week prior to the smashing of East,
there had been a sort of palace revolution
in ’Main, resulting in the retirement of the
coach.
* * * *
“Ratoon”: The squabble between the
Queensland and Brisbane Rugby Leagues has
been taken very seriously by northern expo-
nents of the code. Townsville was the chief
centre to stick to the Queensland concern,
At the opening of the season, Mackay was
considering secession from the Central
League to the northern body; it was also
meditating affiliation with the Brisbane
league. Having arranged a northern tour,
Gie Mackay crowd decided that discretion
and bawbees would be better than showing
tbeir hand before playing at Townsville, since
the Townsvilleans would more than likely
] iave refused to measure kicks with a team
f rom outside the Queensland League. But
a f ter tke Mackay lads had drawn a fairly
k jg “gate” at Townsville they threw in their
] ot w jtli the Brisbane League. Then they
wen t on to Cairns and collected another good
offertory—even the peanut-vendor sells
B .r.L. peanuts at Cairns. Pity money
CO unts for so much in Queensland football,
* * * *
“Fla g wa es cr" : Ifclkwta, the resumption
of serious football after the war, Melbourne
M toTsum'VSeVS® “ei
Nowadays, in addition to payment for clias-
demand to be provided with it on week days
And so clubs which number employers of
labor among their strong supporters have
the best chance for the premierships. Take
Yarraville, for instance. the
hat last season, it is now making a bold
hid foi the Association premiei ship. iwo
prosperous contractors have interested tliem-
selves m its fortunes, and several first-class
footballers have been enticed from other
teams by offers of jobs. One of them is
Smith, who in 1927 visited Melbourne with
S''the' sldr^ymitK^
o s rs
* e“„f J'Sa “ill^anTlo^
° f C&Sh t 0
wm a Melbourne^ premieiship.
' ' ’’ .
“Maroon”: “Hotham” (B. 29/5/’29) is
all astray in his contention that antipathy to
professionalism induces the Melbourne G.P.
schoolboy to drop the Australian game ot
football on leaving school There are severM
AssodatSn!'apart the Metropoli
tan Amateurs’ competition includes old-boys’
teams from most of the G. P. schools. Love
of the national game is too deeply rooted in
t i ie hearts of Victorian schoolboys for either
Rugby codc to haye much cha nce.
* * * *
“S.T.S.” : A great footballer was A. E.
Waldron (always known as “Topsy”), just
dead in Adelaide, at 72. He learned the
game in Melbourne, and played for Carlton,
but moved to S.A. and became captain of
Norwood. In his time, Norwood won the
club premiership of Adelaide five years run-
ning, and eight times in 13 years; also, in
1888, it beat South Melbourne three times
for the “championship of Australia.” Wald-
ron was nn inter-State cricketer, too.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp” : The people who have
ke pt the Australian game alive in N.S.W.
have reason for soreness with the Victorian
clubs. These rich corporations hold up beck-
oning fingers for the men who prove stars in
the Sydney competitions. This year East
g y dney is a shattered team, with three of
its best performers lured to Melbourne; and
sd the game slips just when it is getting a
footing. Still, the puss-in-the-corner busi-
ness is not one-sided; the Sydney clubs have
been strengthened this year by acquisitions
from Tasmania, South Australia and W.A.
Those States have a good start in the game
and can afford to lose a few men, but the
natural result of the present process will
be to emphasise the pre-eminence of Vic-
toria.
“Ego”: The coaching appointment of Bert
Chadwick, former Melbourne captain, to
Hawthorn reminds me of a conversation
between two Melbourne ladies last season.
Mrs. Tompkins appeared one morning with a
black eye, and informed Mrs. Riley that it
was a gift from the old man every time
Carlton lost! a match. “Hivvens,” said Mrs.
Riley, “ye should be glad he don’t barrack
fer Hawthorn, same as Riley does? Ye’d be
blind be this time.”
Racquet and Bawl
The Germans Moldenhauer and Landmann
have surprised the lawn-tennis world by put-
ting the Italians out of the Davis Cup com-
petition. They were known to be coming
on, but few thought them capable of account-
ing for Morpugo and Stefani, the pair who
whipped Crawford, Patterson and Ilopman
at Genoa last year. Of course, the German
standard of tennis was pretty high before
the war. Going after the Davis Cup for
the first time in 1913, Germany defeated
France, but went under to America —that
was the year in which McDoughlin, Williams
and Hackett wrested the bauble from Parke,
Dixon and Roper Barrett at Wimbledon.
Next year Norman Brookes found Fi-oitzheim
his most dangerous opponent in the all-
England singles. Then came the war, and
Froitzheim and his contemporaries faded out,
and when Fritz re-entered the competition it
was with a new breed of players.
* * * *
“Gameanset”: Unless the weather makes
play impossible, J. O. Anderson is to meet
young' Crawford in a singles, match at Syd-
ney’s White City courts on Saturday, by
way of helping to preserve the ground which
is the occasion of so much anguished writ-
ing. J.O. is not as good as he was when he
trounced the great W. M. Johnston in
America and joyously cabled to his paper “I
expect to beat Tilden to-morrow” (he didn’t
but he made a good attempt) ; all the same
he is still a very fine player, and should
thoroughly test the younger man. Ander-
son and young Dunlop will also meet
Crawford and Hopman in doubles, and Miss
Akhurst is to encounter Miss Bickerton, one
of her companions on the tour which was so
successful as regards play and so tragic as
regards pay—witness the debit balance of
over £3OO per lady.
* * * *
“Beret” : Wimbledon will open its mighty
gates on June 24, and the championships
will rage till Saturday, July 6. Dacoste, who
won the singles for the second time last
year, will be an absentee on this occasion, but
Cochet, Borotra, Brugnon and Tilden will be
there, and so will Helen Wills, who was also
victorious last year. Helen indeed won the
French, English and U.S. championships
without losing a set. It is unlikely that she
will be deprived of the English title this
year, though the English still have high
hopes of Betty Nuthall.
The Nineteenth Hole
The qualifying rounds for the amateur
singles championship of N. S. Wales pro-
duced some of the finest golf ever witnessed
in Sydney. Visitors from Victoria did re-
markably well, and Ivo Whitton finished well
ahead of the big field, his aggregate being
145. On Saturday afternoon he aroused
enthusiasm by going out in 30—4, 3,3, 3,4,
3,4, 3,3; he came home in 40. The Primin-
ister’s bosom pal Alec Russell returned a
card of 150, and so did D. Coonan and S. A.
Keane; then followed E. G. Sclilapp (152),
C. Nigel Smith (153) and L. W. Hore (154).
C. FI. Fawcett, the title-holder, failed to
qualify, though his total was 158.
=s * * *
The amateur championship of Britain has
been captured again by Cyril Tolley, who
won it after his return from a German prison
camp—he served in the Tank Corps during
the war. In the final he beat Nelson Smith,
a joiner from Earlsferry, Fifeshire —the same
as Braid —by four up and three to play.
* * * *
“C.W.”: Let me grab the hat that
“V.H.L.C.” (B. 12/6/’29) throws into the
ring on Sydney’s behalf respecting the
number of golf courses in a given
area. Melbourne beats the Sydney record
easily. Leading off Warragul-road, from
Oakleigh to Frankston, within a radius
of 15 miles, are 12 golf courses —Riversdale,
Anstel Park, Metropolitan, Commonwealth,
Yarra Yarra, Kingston Heath, Victoria,
Royal Melbourne, Woodlands, Patterson
River, Peninsula and Frankston. And they
are golf courses in every sense of the word.
My size in hats is 7.
* * * •!=
“Fore and Aft”: Golfers are a hardy race.
It is 25 years since Michael Scott won the
open championship of the coutineht at Syd-
ney, yet the Hon. Michael is still playing
good golf (though not in this country). So
are Soutar and Carnegie Clark, winners in
1905 and 1906 respectively ; Clark repeated
the performance in 1910 and 1911. To some
of these veterans Ivo Whitton is still an
aspiring youth, yet since Ivo’s first triumph
in the “open” the locust has eaten 17 years.
Indeed it is nine years since Joe Kirkwood
scored at Kensington. Joseph was the first
open champion to break 300; he dazzled the
critics with a score of 290. And at the other
end of the world consider the inexhaustible
Vardon and Braid, who are rising 70, and
Ray, who is 51, and Duncan, who is nearly
46. A great game and a tough breed.
* * * *
“Ula”: I don’t think many associates will
take to plus-fours. An incident which has
occurred in one of our Great Cities is signi-
ficant. A newspaper photographer doctored
a print depicting an associate, dressing her
in plus-fours. The picture was given to the
world, and the lady was so indignant that
the paper had to explain that it had been
published by accident. Few women look
their best in golf “bags,” and the dear things
realise it.
* * * *
“Fairway”: Maorilanders would feel more
confident about regaining the Kirk-Windeyer
Cup if Arthur Duncan could go to Australia
with the team. The veteran’s place is to be
taken by Jack Black, a consistent stroke
player, and one always near the top of the
qualifying list. Black pushes a pen in Ihe
Government Railways office.
“Bee Line”: Darragh and Maher’s Andy
was the oldest dog in the contest for the
N.S.W. Waterloo Cup. Despite three heavy
seasons he hasn’t slowed down, and the dur-
able hound “broke” the hare lengths in
advance of his various opponents. In an
effort, seemingly, to land the stake by weight
of numbers the brothers Carter nominated
four dogs. Andy downed three of them —
the last one, All Profit, in the final. Ilis
win netted his owners £lOOO in bets and
£225 stake-money. Since April kills have
been so plentiful at Rooty Hill that the hare
population, despite additions, lias dwindled
to 14, an average daily slaughter, so after
the first day the struggle for the Cup had
to be transferred to the Liverpool enclosure.
The trouble is almost certainly the same as
that which closed Moonee Valley (Vic.)
ground in 1913—“ hare sickness.” Hares
removed from the Valley at once picked up ;
brought back, they sickened and died. Until
the present disastrous season there had been
up to 100 hares in the 30 acres at Rooty
Hill since the ’seventies.
(Continued on next page.)


REPAIRS.
"OUR HANDS MAKE GOOD ARMS”
firearms sent C.O.D.
"MADE TO KILL WITH SKILL.”
Super Accurate 22-cal. Repeating Rifles.
Mauser Model 2, bolt action, 25in. barrel, 5-
shot magazine, £6/5/-. Savage Sporter, bolt
action, 24in. barrel, 5-shot magazine, £4/12/6;
postage 2/6 (Inter-State 4/8). Winchester
Models 56 and 57, 22in. barrel, 5-shot magazine,
£5 and £6/12/6. The Wonderful WALTHER!
22-cal. Rifle, Automatic, 5-shot magazine, 24in.
barrel, price, £6/12/6. Write for price list.
These Rifles are very economical for Night
Shooting.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
Gunsmith, Importer of High-grade Firearms,
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
’Phone MA3540,
1438 Elizabeth Street (near Market
Street), Sydney.
(LATE 110 BATHURST STREET).
Fishing Tackle to Tackle Fishing.’’
MARTELLS
BRANDY
A Household Word -
in Sickness & in Health
KgjyL-Ratipn
Dog food
Supreme
ar
K
A perfectly balanced meat ration;
keeps dogs of all kinds in
the pink of condition.
FREE—Sample Tin sent to any address
in the Commonwealth on request.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from
W. C. SCHWAB
P. O. Box 1821, Melbourne
Kin-L Ration
Car and Cycle
“Garry”: A feature of the R.A.C.’s reli-
ability trials over the route to Mount Vic-
toria, via Kurrajong (N.S.W.), was the large
number of English-built automobiles compet-
ing—25 out of 54. An equal number of
Americans, three Italians and a French car
made up the quota. In the baby-car sections
all the entries were English, and a new-
comer on the market, the Morris Minor,
made a perfect score. In the medium-power
class (1101 to 2500 c.c.) a Vauxhall won in
the private section. In the big-car classes
(2501 c.c. and over) there were 22 Ameri-
can and 4 English entries, and the Ameri-
cans swept the board, Studebakers, Hudsons,
a Willys Knight, a De Soto, Chryslers, Olds-
mobiles and Buicks being conspicuous. Points
. were computed on formulae that made allow-
ances for disparities in power and weight,
and the results, taken generally, show a very
even standard of performance. Forty-two
cars got full marks for reliability; two took
a wrong course and were disqualified for that
reason, and only one failed to finish. Hill-
climbing and flexibility tests were included
in the programme, and the results of these
determined the order of merit.
“Spanner”: The purplest patches in the
R.A.C. reliability trials were provided by
Hope Bartlett in his supercharged Bugatti.
li'c covered the half-mile in 23sec. (the Bug.
is rated at 2262 c.c.), and the hill-climb he
finished in lmin. 50sec. On the last stretch
of up-grade he was travelling at 77 m.p.h.
The most thankful man in Australia was the
observer when he realised that he had escaped
with his life.
* 4-- 4-.
“Dopper”; Driving aDe Soto roadster on
the Verneuk Pan, which is just an African
counterpart -of one of our own claypans,
Gerry Bouwer sped over 1505 miles in 24
hours. His average was 62.7 m.p.h., includ-
ing stops; his fastest lap was at the rate
of 72| m.p.h. The car was a standard road-
ster with mudguards and valances removed,
a small oval windscreen fitted, and higher
rear axle ratio provided.
4* Ms Ms *
“Mango”: Some facts concerning the car
that Lee Bible drove to liis death when
attempting to break Segrave’s record, 231
m.p.h., have come to light. It was a con-
glomeration of odds and ends, consisting of
two building girders, on which were set three
Liberty engines, a rear axle—a solid steel
bar with three sprockets to take the drive of
the three engines—and a front axle and
steering gear salvaged from an old touring
car. When Ray Keech drove it and made
his world’s record of 207.55 m.p.h., the con-
traption was unstreamlined, but Bible had
the advantage of a streamlined body.
M" sir Ms Ms
“O.II.V.”: If the cabled reports are to be
believed, this year’s Junior Tourist Trophy
race on the Isle of Man must have been an
even more hair-raising affair than usual. The
winner, F. Hicks, on a Velocette (made in
Birmingham), averaged 69.67 m.p.h. over the
264-mile course, and is credited by the cable-
man with having covered one 33-mile lap at
95 m.p.h. Hicks is a young rider without
much previous experience in road-racing.
Last year’s Junior T.T. was w r on by the
veteran Alex. Bennett, also on a Velocette,
and in record time, but no rider was able
to lap at more than 80 m.p.h. The course
has so many varying grades and so many
sharp corners that to average 95 m.p.h. would
involve negotiating the straights at 120
m.p.h., which would be impossible for a
350-c.c. machine—or any motor-cycle known
to the modern world.
Miscellaneous
“Jacob" ; The Balmain (N.S.W.) club has
shattered all the grand old traditions of the
game to which Drake and Hawkins were
devoted by admitting ladies as playing mem-
bers. Every Wednesday the skirts may be
seen rolling ’em up, generally partnered
by specimens of the sex that used to glory
in preserving its old immunities. Worse
still, the invaders are demonstrating that
skilful play is not the prerogative of those
who were once the lords of creation. And,
believe it or not, afternoon tea is served on
the lawn and meekly partaken of by elderly
gents, the immemorial custom of adjourning
to the clubhouse having been basely aban-
doned. It is the crowning betrayal.
* M: Mi
“Beaufort”: Badminton is unknown to
pnost Australians, but it has a fair following
in Victoria and Tasmania, and the islet has
just sent teams of men and girls to Mel-
bourne to dust the earth with the pick of
the Vies. The game is of Indian origin, and
was introduced to England about 1873. Eng-
land and Ireland play annual matches—
played them indeed while “the throubles”
were raging. Badminton is a first-cousin to
tennis, or it might be described as a cross
between tennis and battledore and shuttle-
cock.
* Mt * M:
The cableman credits George Simpson, of
Ohio Uni., with having run 100 yards in
9 2-ssec. He did it at the U.S. collegiate
championship meeting, so presumably track
and timing complied with the conditions;
if so, a new w r orld’s record "will go into the
book.
* * * *
“Semaphore”: Hitherto S. Aus. has not
taken inter-State or inter-’Varsity track ath-
letics seriously, but the deeds of A. H. Young,
the Adelaide Uni. quarter-miler, at Brisbane
and Sydney may lead to a change. The
Adelaide youngster showed decided superi-
ority to his opponents from Australian and
Maoriland universities; at Brisbane he ran
the 440 in 50sec. and at Sydney, on a dead
track, in 51sec. The world’s record for
amateurs is 47 2-ssee. Young may never
equal that, but he is obviously capable of
improvement. Interest in track athletics
shows signs of a revival in Westralia also;
at least, an A.A.A. has been formed. Perth
secondary schools have been the nurseries
of many fine runners, and it is a pity the lads
have had so few opportunities of measuring
strides with the fleet men of the Eastern
States.
***•■)<
“Jaykay”: St. Stephen’s Harriers (Vic.)
recently ran from Richmond, their head-
quarters, round the Mornington Peninsula
and back, completing 150 miles in 13
hours 51min. 6sec. Good time, but the lads
consider this only a preliminary canter for
the run they have in mind for next Septem-
ber. They intend then to commemorate their
club’s 25th birthday by a relay run from
Melbourne to Sydney, via Canberra. On the
Mornington Peninsula journey each man ran
two miles; on the inter-State trip four or
five miles a day will be the individual task,
so that the 560 miles may be covered in six
days. Sunday will be spent at ’Berra.
* * * *
“Spot Barred”: Walter Lind rum is going
to England after his matches with Willie
Smith. Accompanied by Clark McConachy,
his Maoriland opponent and pal, he will set
out early in September. Apropos, Walter
made a break of 1104 on the opening day
of his latest Melbourne argument with Mac,
and one of 1269 on the fourth day; then
the astonishing Australian came along with
1135 in the afternoon and 904 in the even-
ing. Depend upon it, the Englishman is not
going to have things all his own way.
* * * *
“Sowth”; Having a credit balance of
£5500-odd on last season’s operations, and
being in a comfortable position already, the
Vic. C.A. has voted £250 apiece to 13 district
clubs, £125 apiece to 14 sub-district clubs,
£750 to the distressed cricketers’ fund, £5O
to poor old Sam Morris, who has been blind
for years, and £25 to the junior union. In
addition each district club is to get £2O for
the relief of local distress, and the executive
committee is to have £5OO for distribution
among charities. Ernie Bean sought to have
something set aside for the purchase of
grounds in outer districts, where land is now 7
comparatively cheap. An excellent sugges-
tion, but it was allowed to drop. Delegates
ought to have some regard for the future and
HARRY SUNDERLAND, Queensland
manager of the Rugby League team
which is to leave for America and Eng-
land by the Aorangi on July 25.
not concentrate on the present. The provi-
sion of grounds is more important than in-
creased grants to clubs or sliamateurs.
* * * *
“Block”: A great age this for Test-match
cricketers! Alan Fairfax, the St. George
colt, is the latest to be provided with a good
job at the instance of the “heads”; Mur-
dochs, of the big Sydney store, have added
the tall all-rounder to their staff. About the
same time it was announced that the 1 ic.
C. A. had approved of giving each of! our
representatives another £lO per match. They
have already received £3O per match, with
30s per day added when they were away
from home. Charlie Bannerman, ‘Jonah,
Tom McKibbin and the rest flourished too
soon.
* * * *
Duleepsiuliji is representing England
against the South African cricketers; and lie
is to visit Australia and Maoriland with
the team that the Maoriland Cricket Council
is bringing out next season. That combination
will include old friends Gilligan and W ool-
ley (most attractive of English batsmen),
Legge, Dawson, Holmes, Shepherd, Towrns-
RAY BREW, who captains the Carlton
(Vic.) footballers again this season and
plays a brilliant game at half-back.
end, Wyatt and Turnbull —all men with
established reputations. Matches will be
played at Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney
on the way to M.L.
* * * *
“Boronia”: It seems to be a bad year for
umpires in Westralia. During the cricket
season a Wyalkatchem man, while umpiring
a match in that thriving settlement, was
struck on the head by a forcibly-liit ball,
and the injury caused his death. A few days
ago the umpire of a football match at Brook-
ton collapsed and died before he could be
carried off the field.
* * * *
“Nifric”: Tommy Lawton, the Queens-
lander, is surely Australia’s most versatile
and most travelled sportsman. He has repre-
sented Queensland, N. S. Wales, Victoria,
Oxford, England, and his A.I.F. Division at
football. He has played the Rugby game in
Australia, Maoriland, Wales, Ireland, Scot-
land, England, France, Germany and Hol-
land, and the Australian game in the River-
i'na. He is an Oxford, Queensland Uni. and
Sydney ’Varsity blue. Withal lie is a crick-
eter, a tennis-player, a track athlete and an
oarsman.
* * * *
“Huffer”; The Australian Draughts Coun-
cil is arranging for a visit from Willie
Ryan, a front-rank U.S. player. Though
only a youngster, William is champion of
Chicago and reached the semi-final of an all-
America championship. He will tackle our
men in November, and the Victorians are
confident that Egan will lift his scalp.
* * * *
“Maylands”: Westralia, which is celebrat-
ing its centenary, confidently expects a big
entry for the air race from Sydney to Perth.
The money offered is substantial —first prize,
£1000; second, £300; third, £100; sectional
prize (for each day’s flight), £5O; fastest
flying time over the complete course, £3OO.
The race, which will be a handicap, will
start from Sydney on September 28 and
finish at Perth on October 3. Two com-
pulsory stops each day are prescribed; the
longest non-stop stages are from Junee to
Melbourne and from Kalgoorlie to Tammin,
each approximately 250 miles. A nomina-
tion costs £5 55., and A. H'. Macartney, sec-
retary of the Centenary Celebrations Com-
mittee, Perth, will take ’em up to July 31.
* * * *
“Ad.”: Handball, referred to in recent
Bulletin pars., has a great vogue in the
U.S.A., and is played also in Germany,
Spain and Holland. There is no finer exer-
cise. You’ve got to hit the ball with closed
or open hand anything up to 30 feet, and a
good singles of 31 up lasts about three-
quarters of an hour. Melbourne runs inter-
club matches, and combines with Sydney and
Adelaide to stage an annual Australian
championship.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Coaldust”: Cash-and-carry concerns m
Newcastle reduced the price of bread to 4 2 d.
per loaf, and then to 4d. Master bakers
threatened to avenge themselves by opening
opposition cheap-price grocery stores, but
this move did not get beyond the talk stage;
and bread is still 4d. a loaf. Cash-and-carry
also .cut the price of tobacco, selling a -oz.
packet for Is. 2sd. The question of appeal-
ing to the wholesale tobacconist for help has
been discussed; but all such attempts at
restraining trade are doomed to failure.
* m= * *
“Frigid”: We import wine-cask timber
from Europe; and now a Portuguese is
prospecting Queensland to get wine-cask tim-
ber for Europe. Yellow-wood ash might suit
him. It is tough and elastic, with a pretty
old-gold color and little sap. Some day, per-
haps, we shall be buying yellow-wood ash
from Portugal, as we buy wattle-bark from
South Africa.
* * * *
“Hop Scrub”: From Seattle, San Fran-
cisco and Los Angeles scores of steamers,
equipped with cold storage, carry apples,
peaches, plums, grapes, and even lettuce, and
celery to Manila, Sourabaya, Saigon, Singa-
pore and Bangkok. Here’s a market at our
back door, provided the ships with refrig-
erated space are available and our growers
are prepared to grade and pack to market
requirements. We can grow fruit and vege-
tables equal to any from anywhere, and an
Asiatic market should prove more profitable
than our post-war European ones.
* * * *
“Clerk”: Road competitors made no
serious attempt to beat Vic. rail chief Clapp
for the job of transporting three gigantic'
rotary coal-kilns from shipside to Yallourn.
Thirty-seven feet long and 12ft. in diameter,
each kiln had a clearance of 14ft. s£in. when
laid on a railway truck. As the overhead
clearance under several bridges en route to
Yallourn is only 14ft. 6in., there was a little
apprehension regarding the practicability of
transporting the three huge passengers in
safety. However, special long, low trucks
with well-worn wheels scraped the sprawling
kilns under the bridges with the half-inch
to spare.
sjc iJj :jc $
“Caractacus”: A Sydney firm of road-
construction contractors employs a plant
almost wholly mechanised, with six-wheel
motor-trucks, caterpillar-drawn heavy gear
and swift dump-cars running on balloon tyres.
Even concrete is mixed, conveyed and spread
by a self-tracking and self-propelled monster.
This machine takes some feeding witli sand,
screenings and cement, and that being man-
work the hardy toiler has fairly to gallop to
keep ahead. As many as five shovel-men are
allotted to a dump-car, and even that num-
ber has no time in wdiich to measure its
stroke, for the cars travel at 15 m.p.h.
* * * *
“Claude W.”: The Queensland Peanut
Pool lias been notified by an English manu-
facturing co. that it is prepared to buy all
th,e nuts that can be supplied, and pay more
than other cos. have offered. The South
Burnett district is now recognised as ideal
for peanut production, and it possesses the
most modern treatment plant in the world.
What is now required is manufacture on a
scale at least sufficient to do away with
importation of the by-products of peanuts.
* * Mi M=
“Jacobum”: “Hayband” (B. 5/6/’29) is
talking through his hat when he says the
Commonwealth Bank pays savings-bank depo-
sitors up to £lO at any office without identi-
fication. Ten pounds may be drawm without
notice at any p.o. or branch where the depo-
sitor’s signature is registered ; elsewhere the
depositor must be identified by some repu-
table person known to the paying officer,
Bung being barred.
* * * *
“T.H.R.F.” : It has cost my friend Smith
£2 10s. 6d. to learn that the Vic. law relat-
ing to money-lending is rotten. Smith adver-
tised for a loan, and arranged an interview
with a go-between, who received him in a
bedroom and motioned him to a chair, hand-
ing him presently a typed sheet. This Smith
signed; it set forth that if the Joan were
not raised Smith would pay 30s. “for
work and labor done.” Going home—it was
4.30 p.m.—Smith decided that as he could
not find a guarantor, as was demanded, he
would not go on. He posted the letter that
night. Go-between sued; Smith did not
attend court: verdict for 30s. and 20s. Gd.
oosts. in default distress. Very foolish of
Smith, no doubt, but the law should protect
fools from harpies.
* :P * *
“r.K.8.” : One of the Australian inventors
who designed a reaper and binder was a
man named Ferrier, a blacksmith at Cole-
raine (Vic.), who took out a provisional
patent on a twine-binder about 1876. He
left it to the last moment to complete his
patent, and a broken coach-axle made him
miss a train that would have landed him in
Melbourne in time. His rights were lost, and
the principles of his twine-knotter were given
to the world gratis.


c
Bargains in Boys’ Wear
TN keeping with Murdoch’s Sale Policy,
everything (with the exception of a few
proprietary lines) has been re-
duced at least
1 0%
Greatly-increased stocks call
for urgent disposal; thus many lines
have been banded together and drastically
" . CTen .. a ! Half Price!
■ urn
JIUt.X
Wa
I
//
ivy.ijjs
U- '3
W
• ' Vi
•■1
life |v/
S. li—
itnl s£
* 3 93 * b.}-;-
i ihl?
HI til
1.1 . i'
* J
I *1 1 ill;
■nil*'
l r§
The Famous Murdoch
37'6 Cotswold
Suit, now —
26111
THE remaining stocks of Excellent-quality All-wool
Tweed Suits for Boys. Fashioned from
weight Tweeds in Dark Grey, Brown, or Mid Grey
shades. Made with plain knees. Sizes 4 to 12, fit
boys 6 to 14 years.
Also Knickers
600 PAIRS ONLY ! Boys’ Sturdily-made Woollen Tweed
Knickers, in serviceable Dark Grey shades. Plain-
knee style. Sizes 3 to 12, fit boys 5 to 14 years.
Usually 6/6. SALE PRICE
4'9
Youths’ 77'6
Suits now
tryryrty
YOUTHS’ S.B. SAC SUITS. Navy Twil
Serge, also Mid or Dark Grey Sergerette. Buying
at favourable prices from the Mills orings you th<
big cash saving. Ready for service. Sizes 12 t<
2\, fit youths 14 to 18 years.
Send for
Big Book of
Bargains!
Simply send your
name and address
to Desk R... and
a copy will come to
you by return mail.
P ostage Paid to
Your Door on All
the A hove Lines.
Safe; IP
F 4
Youths’ Sports
Coats, 24’9, for
19'U
FANCY TWEED SPORTS COATS
FOR YOUTHS. Fashioned with half-
belt at back and three patch pockets.
Boys’ 11'6
Pullovers, now
9'6
A SPECIAL LINE of Boys’ Fancy
Pull-overs. Good heavy-weight All-wool
quality. V-Neck style, as illustrated.
Sizes 22 and 24 inches.
Other sizes in proportion.
K
ss
tryryrty
This Smart 42 f 6
Overcoat
for—
33'9
S.B. “Raglan” Overcoats for Boys
or Youths. Unlined, full belt. Ver-
tical pockets. Made from smart
All-wool Overcoating, Dark Grey
shade. Sizes 13 to fit youths 13
to 18 years.
11,9
9,01
ll,£l
9,£
11,9
7 0£
30IHd
ivnsn
*
Other Bargains !
Boys’ Woollen Tweed Cotswold
Suits, Plain Knee Knickers ...
Warm Flannelette Pyjamas for
Boys, neat coloured strtpes
Dressy Golf Hose for Boys. In
Black or Grey, with neat fancy tops
Boys’ and Youths’ Oxford or Derby
Shoes. Solid leather. Sizes 7 to 9
Other sizes in proportion.
All-Wool Coat Sweateis for Boys.
Polo collar. Grey, Navy, or
Heather shades, 22 and 24 in . .
Other sizes in proportion.
Superior-quality Tweed Hats for
Boys. Grey shade only
SALE
PRICE.
23'8
4'll
2'B
11 '3
B'll
3'll
Sensational Suit Bargains!
£6llOl- and £7171-
SUITS TO MEASURE
£511616
not miss the great clearance of Men’s
High-grade Suitings (all-wool Worsteds
and Serges) at this splendid reduction.
Patterns free! Write to Desk R.
When writing,
kindly address all
letters to Desk R,
c
riiun
’s l!4 _ ■
QJtp Worlds Largest Mews and Boys
r Store
'Park and
George* Sts.


To Mark Linen
CASH'S NAMES are destinctive,
nea? fadeless and durable)
Actual Sue,
Style No. €
<0 IVZljticund.
Prices : 12 do*. 7/6, 6 do*. 5/-, 3 do*. 3/6
SOLD BY LEADING DRAPERS..
Write for Name Style Circular t<)
J. CASH Pty.Ltd.
65 Cubits St. Richmond. Melbourne
3ASHS Names
GtsfiD
WASHING
RIBBONS
AS NEW
AFTER
REPEATED
WASHING"
SOLD BY
LEADING
DRAPERS
m
_ tEtnaualtt
M 192. —A Brogue Shoe of
distinctive appearance.
Stout double sole with
wide flange heel. Sewn
heel seat. Pull fitting
last —half sizes. In Tan
Willow Calf and Black
Box Calf.
j
m:
9*
Write for CatalogX
TWO MENS SHOE STORES
135 KING STREET, fr 316 GEORGE STREET
<2£
The cen/ne of Queens /onc/s
'disfingu'shed Soc/o/ Li/e.
Wotel
BRISBANE
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Lines.
<
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] C[?] 200[?] [?]
Buckley e-Num, [?]ted
N[?]
Williamstown R. C. put on its winter
meeting (known as “the punters’ grave”) on
Saturday. A large crowd was present. The
racecourse is such a paradise of green lawns,
gay flower-beds and picturesque rockeries
that the surrounding country looks worse
than it is by contrast. Between railway
station and entrance are stagnant pools left
by the receding tide, and a bridge the planks
of which see-saw ominously. The day was
perfect, frosty in the morning with a wealth
of warm sunshine later, but most women-
folk were snugly wrapped and coated. Mrs.
J. F. Nagle, wife of the secretary, wore
black patterned in fawn and cherry, topped
with furs and a fawn felt hat. Mr. and
Mrs. E. Rouse, of Sydney, were there; also
E. A. Underwood, who has taken the late
Norman Falkiner’s place on the committee.
Mrs. Underwood accompanied him. Judge
Williams, Mayor Luxton, Alderman and
Mrs. Stapley, Mrs. Horace Munro (well
tailored in cocoa-colored tweed), the Ben
Chaffeys and the T. V. Milicas wfire amongst
those who enjoyed the sport and the sun-
shine.
The law students led off this season’s
faculty hops at St. Kilda Town Hall on
Friday night. Prof. K. H. Bailey and liis
wife, whose enamel-green gown blended into
embroidery of magpie tones, and R. H.
Gregory and Mrs. Gregory, who wore brac-
ken-colored draperies, were guests of honor.
The decorations blended tones of green and
amber. Unattached youth had most of the
floor. Nora Laver’s white lace and soft
covering had a glow of pink beneath ; Mar-
garet Picken wore taffeta of forget-me-not
blue hue, and Patricia Duigan’s fairness was
set off with black lace. Among the garden
of girls were Aileen Lemon, Dorothy Lamble,
Laura Brennan and Francie Woolcott.
The old collegians of Santa Maria College
gave their annual dance at the Rex last weex.
Hon. sec. Dorothea Hart, a slim miss in saxe-
blue georgette of meandering lengths, was
chief mover, and the hop had a patronage
of over two hundred. The president. Mrs.
11. Roy Cash, mingled two blues in her filmy
handkerchief draperies, and the keeper of the
purse, Dorothy Power, was in pillar-box red.
Five girls grasped the opportunity of coming-
out —Mollie Hart, who had a girdle of rhine-
stones glittering amid her white chiffon;
Mollie Carew, in pale green ; Constance Bros-
nan and Lilian Wallace in shell pink; and
Mary Oakley, in frills of white georgette.
Representatives of kindred ex-students’ associ-
ations, including Genazzano and Xavier,
were there. The colors of Santa Maria,
royal blue, green and gold, circled the table
decorations of pink carnations. After the
theatre the company was increased by some
members of the Pavlova ballet, Elsie Prince
and other mummers.
Old Fintonians called their friends
together for their yearly gyration at old
Admiralty House the same evening, Marie
Billing, lion, sec., wearing pink and silver.
Among her lieutenants were Jean Woods, in
delphinium blue, and Mollie Johns, who radi-
ated in crimson. The president of the O. F.,
Miss Hughston, a one-time principal of the
school, attended, with some of the present
teaching staff.
Many pretty frocks were sported at the
Loreto Old Girls’ gathering at No. 9. Georg-
ette and lace, fashioned on long, slim lines
that ended in points about the ankles, with a
backward dip, was much favored. Mrs. R.
Usher, in powder-blue net, and Miss K.
Kenny, whose lavender-colored gown was
scattered with chalk beads, were co-organ-
isers of the hop.
St. Vincent’s Hospital Junior Auxiliary
started its charitable career with a dance
at Old Admiralty House, better known as
Bibron’s. The younger set rolled up in
force, with just a sprinkling of matrons.
Rose Bullen, in begonia-pink, headed the
committee, with Mrs. T. J. Whittham and
Lorna Snellgrove as vice-presidents. Hon.
sec. Mollie Warden shed radiance in gold
tissue, and Monica Gleeson, who counted the
shekels, looked Frenchified in pink and blue
with scattered sparkle. Mrs. Merson
Cooper and Mrs. Guy Bowcher, president
and secretary respectively of the senior
auxiliary, were there to show appreciation
of- the junior’s effort.
The staffs of the Barnet Glass Rubber
Co.’s warehouse and mills assembled at the
Hotel Australia in the financial interest of
the Women’s Hospital. Hon. secretaried by
Nell Tubb and Evelyn Girling, the evening
was pronounced a complete success.
The final good-byes to Mr. and Mrs. Her-
bert Brookes were said in the architecturally
fine but (in winter) cold and cheerless Wil-
son Hall of the Uni. The gathering, which
numbered some hundreds, was under the
auspices of the Uni. Con., the Lady North-
cote Orchestra Trust, the Million Shillings
Appeal, the Ladies’ Orchestra and the Phil-
harmonic Society. On the threshold of the
hall stood Chancellor MacFarland with ex-
tended hand, and medico-knight James Bar-
rett, nursing a presentation bouquet for
Mrs. Brookes, whose tan-colored frock was
wrapped about with silver tissue patterned
in a blurred design of blue and pink. Later
the two knights sang the praises of the
U.S.Ai High Commissioner and his wife,
and were echoed by Bernard Heinze and
Robert Best. The Phil, choir lifted
voices in selections from Elgar’s “King Olaf”
and “Banner of St. George,” and the instru-
mentalists played works by Massenet and
Berlioz. Both guests returned thanks. In
the front-row chairs were Mayor and
Mayoress Luxton, Mrs. Luxton drawing
around her a white-fur collared black velvet
coat; the Barrett lady and daughter Cara;
Miss Deakin and Mrs. Percy Russell, who
had a cheery red gown beneath her fur coat.
The Spencer lady, who sported a twinkling
hair bandeau above a kolinsky coat; lately-
kniglited Dr. Stawell and his wife, the Masson
lady, Dr. and Mrs. A. Robertson, Professor
A. Gunn’s wife, the rector of Newman,
Father Murphy, Mrs. Russell Jackson and
her sister Mrs. E. Dyson were amongst
others there.
Mrs. Herbert Brookes, wrapped ready for
her journey abroad, stepped into the Sedon
Galleries one day last week to open a show
for the benefit of the Permanent Orchestra
Fund. It was an exhibition of pictures and
statuary donated as art union prizes. Mrs.
Harry Emmerton introduced the departing
chairwoman, who was given a bunch of
early wattle and a posy of violets. Mrs.
Arthur Hordern thanked the many painters
who had contributed pictures to aid a sister
art, and Mrs. E. Dyson expressed the com-
mittee’s gratitude to Mr. Sedon for lending
a portion of his fine gallery. John Long-
staff has given a still-life study of pome-
granates and pottery, and Harold Herbert,
Arthur Streeton, Blamire Young and Tom
Roberts are among the brush-wielders repre-
sented. A couple of miniaturists have offered
to do the portrait of a prize-winner, and
another prize is a valuable violin. Mayor
and Mayoress Luxton, Mrs. F. W. Eggle-
ston, Mr. and Mrs. Courtney Dix, Mrs.
Fritz Hart, and Mr. and Mrs. Tom Roberts
were in the crowd ■at the opening.
This is Mrs. Demarquette, professionally
known as Madame Joy Macarden, who has
come from Europe to teach singing at the
Uni. Con. The fair-haired, blue-eyed Dutch
lady smiles at
you in the
role of Elsa
in “L olie n-
grin,” in which
opera she
made her
Paris debut in
’23. Her father
is attached to
a big college
in Holland,
and she is a
8.A., speaks
many lan-
guages and is
an accom-
plished pianist.
We are to
sample the
newcomer’s
talent on the
29th, when she
will sing ex-
cerpts from
“Lohengrin” and “The Flying Dutchman.”
Decoration’s gallery houses this week a
show of miniatures, water-colors articles
of lacquered wood by an English artist, Mrs.
Bess Golding. She has been in Australia
only a few years, and has attracted the
interest of Mrs. Norman Brookes, who
opened the exhibition, wearing a mole cape
over a powder-blue georgette gown allied
to a felt hat of deeper tone. Mrs. Golding
was in black satin with Oriental embroidery
and a black hat. The Cussen lady, Mrs.
Colin Fraser, wearing a brown fur cape,
and Mrs. G. G. Henderson were among the
first viewers.
Pianist Brailowsky was treated to a wel-
coming cup of coffee at the Lyceum rooms
by the Music Club. His playing of Beet-
hoven has so pleased our music-lovers that
vice-president T. M. Brentnall put forward
a plea for an entire Beethoven programme,
and Friz Hart, another v.-p., echoed the wish.
No musical programme had been arranged,
but the Russian visitor begged that he might
be allowed to listen to some young Aus-
tralian students, so Viva Clarke spread her
skirts beneath the keyboard and did her
best—and a very good best it was—with
Chopin and Tschaikowsky.
Cora O’Farrell, in peach-pink taffeta,
dose-fitting of bodice and very full of skirt,
gave her first song recital one night last
week. She has a voice of extraordinary
range—whether she’s a contralto with an
exceptional upper register or a soprano with
an unusual allowance of notes below the
stave is a matter the critics quarrel over.
She was heard in “Ritorna Vincitor” from
“Aida,” some classical German lieder and a
group of modern lays which included Fritz
Hart’s “Dream Wind.” She had a good
house and lots of applause, and earned heaps
of flowers. Violinist Edouard Lambert and
pianist Harold Elvins assisted, and Ida
Scott played the accompaniments.
Amongst London’s May brides was Pene-
lope Gibson Carmichael, who spent some of
her childhood's days at Government House
when her uncle, then Sir Gibson Carmichael,
governed this State. Her husband is Dennis
Wheeler, son of the Montague Wheelers.
Lady Carmichael gave her niece away, the
ceremony being held at St. Mary’s le Bon,
Cheapside. The reception was held at Lady
Novar’s town house. Both members of the
new partnership are qualified architects.
To mark the change of name of their
second daughter, Bessie, the W. 11. Cumings
bade many guests to Menzies’ one day last
week. Francis Seymour Vine, of Armadale,
was the bridegroom, and the knot was tied
at the Grammar School chapel. White
satin with encrustations of diamente and
pearl, a cascade of Limerick lace veil and
a wealth of white orchids made the bridal
array, Three ’maids in pastel green mingled
two periods in their attire, frocks of modern
mode being linked to early-Victorian mil-
linery.
Thisis Wini-
fred Collins, of
the Apple Isle,
who comes to
us with a cre-
ditable reputa-
tion as an
amateur mum-
mer. She has
had a lot of
experience as
a member of
the Hobart
Rep. Soc., and
made her Mel-
bourne debut
with our Re-
pertorians as
Anne Sorrell
in “The House
with the
Twisty Win-
dows.” Lafay-
ette made the
portrait.
A shimmer of shell-pink satin surrounded
Margaret Lawrence Clapin when she faced
the altar at Grammar School chapel, and a
veil of lovely old lace secured with sprays
of blossom draped her bouffant skirt of
tulle. She is the eldest daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. F. L. Clapin, of South Yarra, and
her bridegroom is Wilfred, son of H. L.
Heron, general manager of the Commercial
Bank of Australia, and the late Mrs. Heron.
Chastleton saw the after-rejoicings.
Songbird Millie McCormack went to Scots
Church one day last week and exchanged
matrimonial vows with John Edwards, of
Euroa. The bride is an ex-student of Mary
Campbell, of the Albert-street Con., and her
voice is well known to concert-goers and
radio-listeners. She was arrayed in a long-
trained frock of silvery white and a lace
veil.
A string of little singing boys paced up
the aisle ahead of a procession at Grammar
School chapel when an old boy, Dr. George
Cornwell Jago, presented himself in the role
of bridegroom amongst garlands of white
and pink chrysanthemums. Draperies of
tulle fell from the mitred hip-yoke of white
satin of the gown worn by the bride, Marion,
eldest daughter of the E. Wharton Lloyds, of
Windsor, and a H'oniton-lace veil floated
along the aisle. , Sister Vic., as an attendant,
wore a trail of pink roses on a cicada-green
ensemble. Amongst the company afterwards
entertained at the Wattle was the bride-
groom’s father, C. A. Jago, of Caulfield.
Nancy, younger daughter of the late Harry
Stokes and of Mrs. Stokes, Toorak, and
Norman, a son of the Wilson Camerons of
Ivilmore, were married at St. John’s in a
setting of Iceland poppies and autumn leaves.
Beauty of line and simplicity of design were
characteristics of the bride’s deep-ivory satin
gown topped by a plain tulle veil that suf-
ficed as train also. Frilled frocks of apricot
georgette were worn by her three maids, with
felt hats and harmonising shower bouquets.
Mrs. Stokes and the bride’s brother, Dr.
Lawrence Stokes, entertained a hundred
guests afterwards.
Before Padre Frank Borland leaves Aus-
tralia to go missioning in Korea he will
call at Sydney to marry Gwen Thomas, of
Burwood. His dad, the Rev. Dr. Borland,
who has retired from the ministry, is get-
ting himself reinstated on the register of
authorised splicers so that he may tie this
knot.
Dr. Julian Smith’s wife poured tea at the
Quamby Club for the many bidden to offer
congratulation to Dr. Stawell’s life-partner
upon her husband’s inclusion in the Birthday
honors list. The hostess, who was all in
black, had her daughter' Roma as right hand,
the bright brunette sporting a smart tweed
coat over a figured-silk frock. The Stawell
lady had a posy of violets nestling amid
black attire. She was accompanied by her
not-long-grown-up daughter Elizabeth. The
company had a large medical leavening.
Deep sorrow was caused by the death of
Archbishop Barry. He had come over from
Hobart for treatment at a private hospital
in East Malvern, close to where his brother
Father John Barry, C.M., is stationed. Dr.
Barry was a product of All Hallows’, Dub-
lin, which has turned out many famous
priests. Apart from his brother John at Mal-
vern, he has three other brothers who are
shepherds—Thomas, parish priest of Chats-
wood (N.S.W.) ; David, of Charleville (Ire-
land) ; and Patrick, of St. Mary’s, Mill Hill
(London). For nine years before becoming
coadjutor to the late Archbishop Delany in
Hobart Dr. Barry was parish priest of Cliats-
wood, and so blazed the track for his brother
Tom.
Mrs. Laura Archer Palmer, who used the
pen-name “Bushwoman,” died a few days
ago at her home among the hills of Belgrave.
She was the author of “The Bush Honey-
moon” and “Racing in the Never-Never,”
and contributed numerous articles and short
stories to Melbourne periodicals. About two
years ago her verses/' “Kiddyosities,” were
broadcast by “Mary Gumleaf” and earned
many a chuckle. Mrs. Palmer’s younger
brother was the late Ernest O’Ferrall —
“Kodak” of The Bulletin.
The Housewives’ Association, saying au
revoir to Mrs. Herbert Brookes at the
Lyceum Club, presented her with a minia-
ture laundry set —several wee pegs and a
tiny line arranged in a leather case. Mrs.
Percy Russell, president of the H.A., in
handing over the gift, accompanied it with a
posy of violets. The morning gathering was
attended by the executive, who wished the
guest good luck and a safe return.
On her opening night at His Majesty’s,
in “Giselle,” when Pavlova tripped against
one of the ballet-girls and fell, there were
few in the audience who did not feel sorry
for the supporting dancer, who seemed to be
in for a hot five minutes after the act. But
it was all right. The girl went in tears to
the star and sobbed her apologies. Pavlova
replied earnestly that there was no need for
excuses; the stumble was her own fault, and
she was lucky in having something soft to
fall against. The great dancer is reputed
to be a strict disciplinarian, but evidently
she doesn’t lack a sense of justice.
The Tributary Theatre Players, with Lucy
Ahon in command, launched “The Ship,”
built by St. John Ervine, at their second
appearance. The ladies were able to wear
their best bibs and tuckers, and the tiny
stage of the Queen’s Hall took on an opulent
air at intervals, when the rich Thurlow
family of shipbuilding fame had the stage.
As a clever old lady of 80 Lucy Ahon was
a charming picture in black silk, a fur-
collared satin cape and an ermine-trimmed
black straw bonnet. Hettie Feuerman, as the
old lady’s daughter-in-law, made her first
entrance in a smart checked crepe-de-Chine
frock of nutmeg and bois-de-rose, and Mabel
Thompson was her nice flapper chick in a
soft frilled gown of jacaranda blue. There
were flowers for all fair players.
H’erold Kyng, the English baritone lately
attached to the staff of the Uni. Con., is
doing his bit to encourage promising song-
birds by offering scholarships. Entries close
on the 27th, and the secretary of the
Con. will divulge the conditions if asked.
Minnie Everett, who directs the ballets
of the Firm, has just returned from a sur-
vey of the chief shows of London, Paris
and New York.
Our latest Naval loan, Captain L. Hol-
brook, who arrived last week, is one of the
R.N.’s senior captains, and his dad is a
baronet who owns a group of newspapers
in the Old Dart.
One-time Bulletin writer Trixie Tracey
(Mrs. Carr) died in Melbourne the other
day. Born in Vic., she set out on the
inky way in her teens. A short time in
theatricals was part of her lot, and then
she marriecl Howard Carr and went off to
England. She returned to Melbourne about
six months hgo, when her husband took over
the musical directorship at Her Majesty’s.
When the Roman Catholics enter into
possession of the Queen's Coffee Palace,
which is to be converted into a women’s
hostel, there will be accommodation for more
than 200 boarders. The hostel is to be
managed by a number of the Sisters of
Charity of St. Vincent de Paul. A small
community of these nuns is established in
Maitland.
An Australian pianist, Paul de Chaumont,
has been gathering admirers in Europe,
where he has given a series of successful
recitals. When the last mail left he was
busy in Paris on the music for a French
talkie film, “The Voice and its Mistress.”


©LIB SILVER <©OLF OJPS
MACE and SPORTS
TROPHIES
tryryrty
No. 7695.
Solid Silver Miniature Two-
handle Cup, with cbonised
plinth. Height, without
plinth, 4| in, £4/4/-
Wm. Drummond & Co. ’&■
Workshop is equipped
to manufacture special
designs in either Cold or
Silver.
tryryrty
No. 4906.
Silver Two-handle Cup of
chaste design, on ebonised
plinth. Height, without
plinth, -1 i in. £S/5/-
tryryrty
No. 4862.
Storting Silver Two-handle
Cup, w ith model of golfer,
on ebonised plinth.
Height, without plinth—
inches - £7/10/-
!0f „ - £9
11 ‘ „ - £lO/10/-
12.! „ - £l3/10/-
tryryrty
Solid Silver Golf Stick Cop,
on ebonised plinth. I {eight,
exclusive of plinth, in.
£i -
Liberal concessions will
be extended to all Golf
Clubs and Presentation
Committees.
tryryrty
No <lBB4.
Solid Silver Two-handle
Cup, surmounted with
model o!' golfer or tennis
player. Height, without
£7.
plinth, 61 in.
A TTENTION is invited to the fact that the firm possesses the best facilities in Australia
A for submitting to the inspection of Golf and other Sporting Clubs appropriate Trophies
J 1 and Cups for presentation purposes. Miniature Cups in Sterling Silver range in price
‘ / \ ,onl upward. In addition to these a wide range of larger Cups, also in Sterling Silver,
A 1 and of newest shapes, is available. These are all of the very finest manufacture, made
dL JLby the best London Silversmiths. The firm allows a special discount to Clubs.
WM DRUMMOND 6 CO
344-346 COLLINS ST MELBOURNE
tryryrty
. v> « f v r. %
, fWaU!Pajxrr
/{o b 4 jftkS! ?X*? v X 1 )*}
'o '•<;' <4 '=- /alm"' ,: J> i? <3 ) '$ <J 9 ?j V
fc 9 £> 1? <3 t> ?! <? _9 ?! V '
f \ '4 bV'?•. "? '<?! p |? V
6 *•? o
W
What’s What
in New Season’s Wallpaper!
Our new season’s wallpapers are selling rapidly.
This is owing to their pleasing home-like
designs, which include the new plaster effects,
soft chintz designs and rich tapestries.
HOW TO HANG THEM
They are being hung in the conventional “all
over’’ treatment with frieze, or set in squares
or oblongs with panelled edges, the latter being
a very harmonious treatment for present-day
living-rooms and halls.
#
We invite your inspection. Samples posted free any-
where on request—mention the rooms you intend
papering. You incur no obligation. Showrooms
in both Sydney and Melbourne.
JOHN DANKS &SON PTY.LTD.
USUIS
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
tryryrty
More Books for All Trades
Price. Postage.
Stainless Iron and Steel. Manufacture, etc. By J. Monypenny 26/- 1/4
American Soap Makers’ Guide. Up-to-date Treatise on Manu-
facture of Soaps, Candles and Allied Toilet Preparations.
Stanislaus 60/- 1/8
Alternating Current Rectification and Allied Problems. Mathe-
matical and Practical Treatment. By T. Jolley 36/- 1/3
Electric Rectifiers and Valves. By Guntherschulze 19/- 1/-
Electric Switch and Controlling Gear. Handbook on Design,
Manufacture and Use of Switch Gear and Switchboards,
etc. Garrard 75/6 1/6
Household Refrigeration. Complete Treatise on Principles,
Types, Construction, Operation of Ice- and Mechanically-
cooled Domestic Refrigerators. Hall 21/- 1/-
Marine Boiler Management and Construction. Treatise on
Boiler Troubles and Repairs. Stromeyer ... 26/- Bd.
Internal Combustion Engine. Textbook on Gas, Oil and Petrol
Engines. Wimperis 16/- Bd.
Thread-cutting Methods. Jones 15/- 1/-
Drilling Practice. Hammond 10/- 1/-
Automatic Screw Machines. Treatise on Construction, Design
and Operation. Hamilton 10/- 1/-
Foundations of Bridges and Buildings. By Jacoby 36/- lOd.
Concrete Year Book, 1929. Handbook. By Faber 6/6 6d.
Processes of Flour Manufacture. Amos 12/- 4d.
Galvanising. Theoretical and Practical Treatise. Bablik ... 16/- 6d.
Wood-carving. Woodworker Series 4/6 4d.
Sawmill and Wood-converting Machinery. With Notes on
Construction, Speeds, etc. Bale 6/6 4d.
Sketching in Lead Pencil. For Architects and others. Salwey 10/- Bd.
Die-making. Practical Work. Colvin 12/- 6d.
Machine Tools and Workshop Practice. By Parr 20/- 1/4
Ford Electrical Equipment. Starting, Lighting, Ignition .... 12/6 4d.
Electrical Equipment of the Motor-car. By Moreton 21/- 1/-
Motor-cycling Manual. All about Motor-cycles 3/6 4d.
Boys’ Book of Wireless. How to Make Crystal Set. Two-,
Three- and Four-valve Sets 5/6 6d.
Motor-car Upholstery. Plainly-written book on Motor-car
Trimming and Upholstery 12/6 6d.
Art of Decorating Show Windows and Displaying Merchan-
dise. A Complete and Authentic Manual. Rogers ... 24/- 1/6
Manual of Show Window Backgrounds for Mercantile Dis-
plays. Burdg 21/- 1/-
Practical Electric Welding. Swift 6/6 4d.
Lathe Work for Beginners. Practical Treatise, by Rafates ... 10/- 6d.
Modern Painters’ Cyclopedia. F. Maire 10/- Bd.
Engineering Workshop Manual for Turners, Fitters and
General Machinists. Pull 3/6 4d.
More About How to Draw in Pen and Ink. By Furniss 6/- 6d.
Concrete Products and Cast Stone. Manufacture and uses.
Childe 6/6 Bd.
Write jor Lists on all Technical Subjects to
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
TECHNICAL BOOK SHOP,
CASTLEREAGH & MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
The Community General
Assurance Co., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: 37-39 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches at Goulhurn, Newcastle, Bathurst, Wagga and Manly.
Authorised Capital, £250,000. Subscribed Capital, £97,000.
A RECORD OF ACHIEVEMENT
FOR LAST YEAR:
PREMIUM INCOME £82,000
CLAIMS PAID . . . . .„ * . . £48,000
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
This Company was the first Company to reduce the rates, and since the
inception of the Act in July, 1926, have given policy-holders bonuses and
reduction THE SUM OF £40,000, and this Company has
A CASH DEPOSIT OF £lO,OOO WITH THE N.S.W.
TREASURY AS A GUARANTEE OF PAYMENT OF CLAIMS
IN CONNECTION WITH WORKERS’ COMPENSATION.
The success of The Community General has not been achieved without
a struggle, and has naturally provoked the criticism of our competitors.
To be of value criticism should be impartial and unbiassed.
The opinion of a Competitor is rarely so.
However, a saving of 2/-, 3/-, 4/-, 5/-, 6/-, or more in the £ between the Community
General’s rates and those of the Tariff Companies must be explained away by some means or
other, and our detractors generally fall back on the argument of our “small reserves” compared
to the millions sterling accumulated by the particular Company in which they happen to be
interested (“reserves” which incidentally are often out of all proportion to the amount necessary
for the Company’s volume of business).
WHERE DO THOSE RESERVES COME FROM?
They come out of YOUR POCKET.
Where do those reserves go to? Sooner or later they generally achieve a happy metamorphosis
into “share capital.”
Big reserves are consequently of considerable advantage—to the Shareholder—and are the
comfortable proof that for years, YOU, as a policy-holder, have paid, and may be still paying,
UNNECESSARILY HIGH PREMIUMS.
The Assets of the Community General include
THE GOODWILL
THE CONFIDENCE
THE SUPPORT
OF THE COMMUNITY
“The Community General” stands for The Community in General.
“Non Nobis Solum”—“Not merely for ourselves.”
THE COMMUNITY GENERAL IS AN AUSTRALIAN COMPANY—WITH
AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL, AUSTRALIAN MANAGEMENT. SUPPORT
YOUR OWN COUNTRY—AND KEEP THE PROFITS IN AUSTRALIA.
Let us quote you for your risk—if it is a good risk ive can save you money.
Fire, Workers’ Compensation, Personal Accident, Burglary, Plate Glass,
Motor Car Guarantee, etc., etc.
WIRE: “Community,” Sydney. TELEPHONE: 8W6562 or 8W6586, or
call at Head Office, 37-39 Pitt Street.
THE COMMUNITY GENERAL ASSURANCE
COMPANY, LIMITED
H. C. COGGINS, Managing Director.


Under
Royal
Warrant
f&m
Vintage 1920.
To H.NL
Kino
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE
Charfeslfeidsieckj
mmwmm
Australasian Agents— <
Swift & Company U mitad
SYDNEY
CHAMPACKS
REIMS
PELLISSOIM
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD,
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Headquarters during Polo Season
The Wentworth is one of the most luxurious places in Sydney
at which to stay. During Polo season noted Polo enthusiasts
select the Wentworth because of its appointments and service.
Many of the bedrooms have their own bathrooms. All have
hot and cold water; also telephones. All are steam-heated
by a central heating system. The Wentworth is close to all
Stores, Banks and Theatres. Write direct to Mrs. Maclurcan,
Director, for reservations or other information.
&he WENTWORTH
AUSTRALIA’S HOTEL DE LUXE,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
52 Macleay St
Limited
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT
{Located ■within the City Boundary a seven
minutes Jrom G.P.0 .)
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 150 Rooms, is now open and
features Two-, Three- and Four-
room Suites, each with Bath; also
Single and Double Rooms. Central
Heating, Running Water and
’Phones installed in each room.
Unsurpassed Harbor Views.
Weekly inclusive tariff,
from £5/5/-
Daily, from £1
Telephone: F 2161 (8 lines); Tele-
graphic address: “Fifmac,” Syd-
ney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayser
SHEER
CHIFFON
SILK
STOCKINGS
St. Andrew’s within the University broke
the ice of the academic dancing season. The
colleges specialise in midwinter dances, and
the girl who follows them up leaps, as it
were, from floe to floe in the dauntless spirit
of Liza pursued by the bloodhounds. Of
course, when, blue of nose and chilblained
as to toe, you reached the college on a Polar
night of last week lit by a frozen nail-paring
of a moon, you found a great log fire roaring
in the common room, with nothing to sug-
gest a coal strike in the glowing embers seen
through many a half-open door. Nearly
400 dancers took the floor in the dining and
common rooms after receiving a handclasp
from Principal Anderson and his lady, who
kept the primrose of her georgettes warm
with a velvet and furry wrap. The atmo-
sphere was heady with dons and spattered
thick with degrees. Principals of sister-
colleges dropped in with their wives, and
students representative of other intellectual
piles were among the dancers. Among the
night’s honored was Miss MacDougal, who
had been the college matron for 25 years.
On Saturday night Sydney society flocked to
see its offspring act for the benefit of the C. of
E. homes at Carlingford and Glebe. Elaine
de Chair had given the theatricals a good
kick-off among the bright young things of
the city’s topmost stratum, and the result
was that the young butterflies who couldn’t
squeeze into the cast sold programmes—in long
buoyant white taffeta frocks and silver wig-:.
The Governor-General and Lady Stonehayen
were among the audience. Elaine de Chair,
p.s the Princess who would not promise to
wed the Prince until she had had a personal
survey, lacked nothing in attractiveness, and
Prince Denis (Clarence Morphy) was the
sort of Prince wlio’d make a royal divorce
impossible. Marie Rosenfeld, as the young
bride, and Erna Living, in one of her famous
old-women characterisations, were the strong
supports of “The Patchwork Quilt.”
The G.-G. and Lady Stonehaven and Sir
Dudley and Lady de Chair will be at
the Flying Doctor Ball at the Wentworth
on July 0.
Mrs. Joel Hutson, who is being coached
as a sort of understudy by Mrs. Lawton,
wife of America’s Consul-General, is a slim,
dark girl who claims Maoriland as her home.
In Wellington she was born, educated and
married, and all her travelling has been
done since she became the wife of the then
American Consul in that city. Shortly after
that the Joel Hutsons ' were called to
Washington, and in that cool and placid
city, dominated by the White House,
Mrs. Hutson met Sydney’s old friends
the popular Norton couple and that
MacVittie (so generally known as Mac that
his Christian name has escaped everybody)
who was Consul at Auckland and well known
in Sydney and Tasmania. Mac, who writes
novels in his spare time, is now following the
diplomatic road in the land of Mussolini.
To get used to our ardent sunshine (they
struck the Harbor when the waters were
congealed by a westerly) the Hutsons spent
three months in Singapore before coming on
to Sydney. Here the native shops, with their
embroidered shawls and kirns, rich and vivid
against a dingy background, made the strong-
est appeal to Mrs. Hutson’s imagination;
and the manners and speech of the British
officers and civil servants created for the
Maoriland girl the loftiest ideal. Already
Mrs. _ Hutson bas met the women, of the
American colony at their weekly sewing bee.
Tennis (she played on the courts of the
Tanglin Club in Singapore) and swimming
are her favorite pastimes.
As pressman Ted O’Loughlin can’t indulge
in his desire to go gypsying through life in
a caravan, or buccaneering in a barquentine,
he was quite pleased to hop into the blue
with Federal Minister for Home Affairs
Abbott. The tour includes a 6000-mile fly in
the airship Canberra, and the Minister’s object
is to get as much working knowledge of the
Northern Territory as can be picked up that
way; but it isn’t true that the Common-
wealth Bank is going to audit its branches
in future by flying over them twice. Cap-
tain Holden is piloting the machine. The
Minister left his wife and two daughters
behind.
The one rival in size to the Masonic Ball
is the Catholic Ditto, though how a ball can
be denominational always puzzles this Let-
ter, jazz being an idol to which Agnostic,
C Impel and Kirk offer a like amount of the.
incense of shoe-leather. Anyway, as far as
aamial r °H" u P £oes, the two are about
htty-fifty. Last week over 1000 dancers
trammed and taxied to the Falais, and here,
under the benevolent gaze of Archbishop
Kelly, the Church militant, as it were, un-
furled a banner to the glory of the dance.
Ihe night was a record for debs. Thirty-
two in all, they broke, a surf of tulle,
against the scarlet coastline of carpet that
stretched beneath the episcopal feet. From
the line of frothy white, one by one the 32
took definite shape as each dropped a knee and
kissed the great ruby glowing on his Grace’s
hand. The fine old hand, white and purpose-
ful, and the kindly blue eyes had a striking
background in the Archbishop’s flowing scar-
let robes. The chairman of the big com-
mittee was J. Brennan; the to-be-compli-
mented secretary, W. J. Ross.
Everybody is talking about the decorations
at the Ivillara Bowling Club Ball. This year,
as last, they were the work of Mrs. E. It.
Crothers, daughter of the club’s president.
The scheme was a bold design in gold and
black, the whole suggestive of a sun-splashed
courtyard. The walls were trellised in vivid
green lattice, from which at intervals jutted
yellow and black awnings above imaginary
windows whose sills were gay with shallow
boxes of Iceland poppies. In between, the
ugly gas-brackets of the hall had been hidden
behind bowls of scarlet geraniums. At the
rear of the stage a black curtain had 1v.8.C.
scrolled in gold across its centre, while a flight
of orange birds, quite in the Chinese-screcn
fashion, winged their way into the west.
On one side of the stage an orange-tree grew
in a black tub, while watching it was a
canary perched in a tall green cage. A Zep-
pelin entirely covered with poppy petals
made the central light shade; and dangling
low above the dancers’ heads were golden
hoops, on which swayed all the birds of the
bush.
Another striking note of these Ivillara deco-
rations was
the cameo on
each side of
the stage on
which a finely-
cut black pro-
file stood out
from an
orange oval.
The whole
scheme was
carried out for
love by the
lady of the
picture along-
s i d e. With
her own hands
she made over
2000 poppies
and an equal
number of ger-
aniums. Later
she had the
satisfaction of
knowing that
the decorations were eagerly sought by two
other dance committees in Ivillara.
The doggiest afternoon affair of last week
was the dog gymkhana promoted to help the
R.S.P.C.A. ball at the Wentworth next
Friday. Although it was stated that dogs of
low degree were welcome, none who brought
their pets along were in the plebeian class—
Woolloomooloo would have withered in the
atmosphere of the showground, which was
a paddock attached to Rona, the home of
the E. W. Knoxes at Bellevue Hill. The
prize-list included guerdons for the handiest
dog, the dog with the most appealing eyes,
the ugliest dog, the dog who begged the
prettiest, and the one who was cleverest
at retrieving a ball. There were also prizes
for the best-bred pup and the one with most
beauty. The paddock presented a spirited
scene by the time George Lambert (very
doggy in checks and a cap that should have
been shooting grouse in the Highlands) and
Ken Austin (matter-of-fact felt hat and
tweeds) turned up to do the judging. Cars
whizzed up and deposited fur-collared ladies
in quick succession. In spite of the cold
wind of winter that wailed mournfully, few
of them were fur-coated—tweed and cloth
topcoats with deep collars and cuffs of fur
that ran from wrist to elbow were almost
universal wear. The G.-G.’s lady arrived to
present the ten miniature silver cups; she
was wrapped in a brown and gold-stamped
velvet coat, with which a small hat of the
same tones chimed in nicely. Daughters
Ava and Ariel were with their mother; also
Miss .Gillett and Lady Stonehaven’s Aber-
deen terrier, who kept his neck cosy with
a tartan ribbon.
Philippa Stephen’s black-and-tan terrier
carried off one prize for the most appealing
eyes, and another for speed and accuracy in
gathering in balls. Mrs. George Walker’s
Alsatian, Robin, was a handsome fellow
(but did you know that name has an inner
meaning?), and among the admired was a
meek-eyed spotted chap, just like an old-
fashioned China dog come to life. He was
Weeley Rocket, Mr. De Groen’s English
setter, who can trace his family back 220
years. Margaret Allen brought a nice cocker
spaniel, who begged in a Pavlova-like atti-
tude. Mrs. Tommy Marks showed with
pride a great bulldog, and Janet Knox a
Pekinese. Mrs. Broadhurst (not so long ago
Moira Brady) was also among the proud
owners. Mrs. George Vivers’s Paulette was
judged the prettiest puppy, but Paulette
really wanted to be entered as the best
linguist; French and English are equally
well understood by this Pom. Betty Wills-
allen and her Ben would have made a charm-
ing sketch of Beauty and the Beast. Mrs.
Warwick Fairfax, Janet Knox, Philippa
Stephen and Margaret Allen were respon-
sible for the success.
Here’s Kathleen O’Keeffe, the first woman
to be on the executive of the Public Service
Association of
N. S. Wales;
and the elec-
tion took
place at a con-
ference of 90
men and three
women. But
the lady has
been president
of the women’s
clerical sec-
tion since
1923, a coun-
cillor of the
association and
a member of
the clerical
m a n agement
an d arbitra-
tion commit-
tee. She lias
the Sydney
IT n i versity’s
diploma for economics and commerce, passing
her final exam, with high distinction, and
securing second place in public administra-
tion ; and she has had, besides, the Braddon
prize for business principles and practice,
the Russell prize for industrial and commer-
cial law and a special prize from the Cham-
ber of Commerce. And she knows all about
industrial hygiene and sanitary law. Now,
rivals, walk up with your testimonials!
To-morrow night (June 20) three young
Australians who deserve a good word, are
staging a recital at the King’s Hall —
Muriel O’Malley, John Warren and Harold
Stead. Muriel is the owner of a ruby-
rich contralto; John is the tenor well known
to listeners-in, and Harold is the pianist.
Prince Alfred’s is out after £7OOO to equip
its laundry with machinery. The hospital’s
voluntary workers held a dance and bridge
in David Jones’s last week, and this should
pay off an instalment or two. The audi-
torium was crowded with bridge tables, and
the floor of the ballroom was gay with
dancers. Dr. Cecil Purser’s lady was presi-
dent of the committee, and did her job in
wffiite georgettes glittersome with hoar frost.
Black satin scrolled in silver was worn by
Mrs. William' Arnott, and made a striking
foil for her soft piuk-and-whiteness. Mrs.
Charles Walker, the hospital’s organising
secretary, was dashing in black and emerald,
lit all over with rhinestones. Dr. Bertie
Schlink, just returned from foreign parts,
was the knut of the official group, and Kath-
leen Hay and Joyce Benjamin were the
secretaries.
When Harold Williams left Sydney with
the A.I.F. he intended to return as a pro-
fessional footballer. He has come back a
celebrated baritone. When the war was over
and he had been mended at Harefield, and
had persuaded a Victorian nurse therein, Dot
Mason, to fix a date for wedding bells, Wil-
liams set about getting a job in London. Spare
time he gave to singing under the tuition of
Charles Phillips. After 12 months’ work
his teacher said, “Give a recital.” He obeyed.
Then he got some engagements. Then he
gave another recital. And then he got more
engagements than he could fill. That’s how
you become a famous artist. Easy, isn’t
it? But first you must have the voice, and
then you must study with a sort of fierce
and concentrated fury. German, Italian and
French the tall Australian acquired, and
an extensive repertoire of oratorio and opera,
and he is probably the most-sought soloist
for musical festivals in the British Isles.
He was Hiawatha when the Albert Hall
was turned into an Indian encampment to
surround that tuneful work. There was a
capacity audience of 8000 every night of the
long season; the King and Queen tvere at
the first night. The Albert Hall seats 10,000,
but as Minnehaha’s leafy bower and domestic
offices took up a large space of the stalls
2000 had to be sacrificed.
Touching the English accent, the Australian
(whose own speaking voice is like a ’cello)
says the genteel suburbs still mangle their
vowels, but when you get among a crowd
such as attend Lady Londonderry’s crush on
the night before the opening of Parliament,
vowels are open and consonants clearly
enunciated. Stanley Baldwin, ex-Prime Min-
ister, the singer picks out as one of the
men whose manner of speech is to be remem-
bered. The Australian woman has a softer
note than her English sister, who is inclined
to be a bit metallic in the upper registers.
To Harold Williams’s ear the Scotch voice is
the most musical in the British Isles.
Australian students, on the whole, go to
London with too much money, he thinks —
not too little, as we are generally told. Mr.
Williams’s advice to the student is to take
a job (“you can’t be singing all day’’),
board with families of different nationalities
to get an inside running on the languages,
and take any engagement, however humble.
In England the Williams home is at Wem-
bley. At present he is living at Bronte with
his wife and twin daughters. Mrs. Williams
is small, with notable eyebrows several
shades darker than her light-brown hair.
“Whom St. Peter’s has honored all the
world must honor,” remarked a guest at the
reception organised by the Catholic Women's
Association to meet the Sydney women who
have lately received Papal recognition. The
speaker was a representative of one of the
sex’s organisations of Sydney, and looking
around the big hall in Farmer’s one caught
sight of good workers of every creed and
faith. These Papal honors have caught the
imagination of Sydney women, but the reci-
pients bore their honors with a gratified
meekness. Each lady bore a bouquet,
supported by an illuminated address in
the most scholarly monklike script embel-
lished with the Papal Arms. The wording
of each was different; composition and let-
tering were the work of Mrs. W. Fitzgerald,
while the exquisite color design was from the
pen and brush of the Convent at Woolwich.
Mrs. W. Fitzgerald numbers among her
gifts a mellow and expressive voice and a
meticulous care for the sound of words, and
her reading of the addresses was as much
a part of the music of the afternoon as any
violin or piano item on the programme
arranged by Mrs. P. Baulman. Archbishop
Kelly attended the party in all his ponti-
ficals, and brought with him Dean Crowley.
The ladies of the decorations were Mrs. F.
B. Freehill, Countess when she is in Borne;
Mrs. John Barlow, Dame of the Holy Sep-
ulchre ; and the Misses K. Egan, M.
O’Shaunessy and L. O’Loughlin. Mark Shel-
don’s lady, who has been given a sister honor
to Mrs. Barlow's, was the only absentee on
the list; she was away in the country.
Mrs. Irene Button, of Maitland, finds,
after travelling over Europe and hearing
opera in every city noted for its music, that
New York has more attractions than any
of them. It was there she saw the Passion
Play staged by a German company whose
ancestors have been acting it for centuries.
Belasco was responsible for bringing these
players from Freiburg. In the entire com-
pany there are 1000 performers, 100 of them
in the orchestra and 80 in the choir. The
lighting effects in the Belasco theatre were
at once impressive and restrained. The
people of Freiburg first acted this Passion
in the thirteenth century.
A feature of the theatre world of the
moment, Mrs. Button finds, is the interpre-
tation of the music of well-known composers
with dancing and miming. Stravinsky’s
“Les Voces” (scenes from a primitive Rus-
sian wedding feast) by a picked Russian
ballet under the direction of Andoga, of La
Scala, caught the public fancy. Borodin’s
“Steppes of Asia” was another great success
of the dancing and miming art. The modern
music, Mrs. Button says, is the most diffi-
cult to interpret on account of its broken
rhythms."
Isabelle Pidcock, of Casino, became Mrs.
Keith P. Walker, of Manly, one afternoon
last week. St. I’at.’s on Church Hill gave
its blessing, and the bride received her ring
wrapped in a rosy aura—hat, dress and
velvet shoes all jocund pink. Her ister
Noreen was a silkmaid, her sleeky attire
being carried out in sky-after-rain blues. The
bowl was passed round by bride’s mother in
the Blue Room of the Wentworth. The
Sierra takes the new Mr. and Mrs. Walker
to America.
Evidently some home-builders of the
’eighties and ’nineties remembered that maids
had legs, even if legs weren’t so much in
evidence as they are to-day. At th,e old red-
brick house in Elizabeth Bay-road which is
the present home of the Garden Club, the
back stairs are not precipitous, nor do they
curvet and curl as was the way of most
back stairs built in Victorian days. The
club already is the dropping-in place for Syd-
ney’s smartest. The dining-room is set about
with round, highly-polished mahogany tables
somewhat lower than most; and the chairs,
being slightly lower, too, are a boon to the
small woman, who too often dines with her
toes only touching the floor. There are lounge
rooms done in the mauves and greens and
golds of early spring; there’s one big bed-
room whose hangings and cushions and carpet
are in mandarin yellow, its bed like Spanish
mahogany built to a Jacobean design ; there
are rooms done in blue, in rose and in green.
One tiny all-white dressing-room has exhilar-
ating curtains on which green parrots fly
through a pale-gold atmosphere. There are
card-rooms and sun porches; and, best of all,
it is a place where Adam and Eve can com-
mune and ruminate separately or in com-
pany as they will. The Garden Club is a
new venture of the go-ahead Mrs. Pickburn,
who has Sunbeam Mylius as her secretary.


mmm
in
%
i
l
;
I
■
I m
.
: , : '
1
#4 *
a
&«
SS
K
'a
k,
IS
im
m
. .•**•..
n
i
ui m
ft _y
li .
i. *
I !
:, f
\
‘MI
s 4\' *
5 %s
fife
SLIMNESS AND BEAUTY THIS EASY WAY-
LEICHNER 1001, the well-known weight reducer and beauty bath, is now available to the Australian public.
It is not to be taken internally, but is an effective, delicately perfumed preparation which is added to your warm bath. The
reduction of weight is brought about in an entirely natural action of the human system and does not have any harmful effect
on the heart or kidneys.
Medical reports state that a reduction of as much as 31b. after a single bath has been obtained with Leichner 1001.
IT IS, IN FACT, THE ONLY EFFECTIVE WAY OF WEIGHT REDUCTION.
The most surprising feature of Leichner Slim Figure Bath 1001 is its rejuvenating effect, and after a few baths the skin regains
its elasticity and becomes a beautiful lily-white.
LEICHNER lOOl
For Particulars, complete attached
Coupon and mail to —
Retail price, 4/- per packet (post free, 4/6). Obtainable from your chemist and
leading city stores, or from the Sole Australian Agents:—
MESSRS. LOHMANN & CO., LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, G.P.O. Box 804 G, Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS ,


tryryrty
The Crue/Pa/n
of PILES
WHY endure the burning irritation,
inflammation, swelling and other
distressing symptoms of piles? That
great soothing and healing balm,
Zam-Buk, brings sure and lasting
relief. Even in cases where operation
seemed inevitable it has been used
with complete success.
Mr. Percy V. Harper, of Tiparra, S.
Australia, says:—“For two years I was
a martyr to piles. The complaint got so
severe that I was beginning to think the
only way to a cure was operation. The
burning irritation was terrible and when
at my worst I could scarcely move about.
“I took doctors’ medicine r.nd used
all sorts of ointments and salves, but
until I started with Zam-Buk it wa3
just throwing money away.
“Zam-Buk was wonderful and I felt
its great soothing power soon after the
first application. As I continued the
treatment all pain, swelling and inflam-
mation was overcome. Zam-Buk has
now banished the piles completely."
Sunßuk
tit box & 316 family size. All chemists.
X
You can Wipe the Mort-
gage Off your House.
Possess insurance, and effect a
saving in cost. Particulars of this
sound business investment from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
R O’rnXNKI.l. STREET, SYDNEY.
iK
%
B£FP££FPofc^^
ASTHMA \
No matter how severe your
ASTHMA, CATARRH, COLD
IN THE HEAD, BRONCHITIS,
etc. Potter’s Asthma Powder
brings immediate and soothing
relief.
Of all Medicine Vendors 2/6 per Tin.
POTTER & CLARKE, LTD.,
Artillery Lane, London, England
For outdoors, use Potter’s Smoking
Mixture and Cigarettes
J
tryryrty
&
*2^
fi
Retain Your Good Looks
Cuticura Will Help You
Every-day use of the Soap,
assisted by the Ointment as
needed to soothe and heal any
irritations, does much to keep
the skin fresh and youthful, the
scalp free from dandruff and the
hair healthy. Cuticura Talcum,
smooth, cooling and fragrant, is
the ideal toilet powder.
Soap Is., Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment address:
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.”
DOST Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
Lubricate
your machinery
as you do your car
by tbe
TecalemiT
High Pressure System
TECALEMIT SERVICE STATIONS:
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street Perth
Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street Adelaide
Keep Bros. « Wood Pty., Ltd., Bateman Street Melbourne
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt Street Sydney
Martin, Wilson Bros., Ltd., 299 Adelaide Street Brisbane
Factory Represantative: Mr. JAMES THORNELL, 812 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
TECALEMIT, LTD., Mitre House, Scrubbs Lane, London, N.W. 10., England.
The Well-known Farming and Grazing Property
“WYEMO”
BY AUCTION CN THE PREMISES,
ON SATURDAY, JUNE 29th, AT 3 P.M.
UNDER instructions from QUEENSLAND TRUSTEES LIM-
ITED, BRISBANE, as Trustee of the Estate of C. A. Munro
deceased, late of Arcot, Texas. Situated on the Dumaresq
River, 7 miles from Yellarbon; 18 miles from Yetman; 30 miles from
Texas; 28 miles from Inglewood; 40 miles-from Goondiwindi. Area,
8839 acres, more or less, including 3865 ACRES FREEHOLD, and
4974 ACRES LEASEHOLD.
The leaseholds comprise—G.F. 940, 2000 acres, expiring Ist July,
1949; G.F. 1453, 288 acres expiring Ist July, 1949; and G.F. 1861,
2685 acres, expiring Ist October, 1944—a1l at an annual rental of £d
per acre.
IMPROVEMENTS: Subdivided into 14 paddocks, fencing mostly 6
wires. Portion of boundary netted; most of the property is ring-
barked and approximately 400 acres cleared —250 having been under
wheat and 80 have grown tobacco successfully; 10 acres now being
under lucerne and about 60 tons of lucerne in hayshed. Homestead
of 6 rooms; also three large sheds, dairy and butcher shop; cow
bails, horse boxes, etc. Complete stock yards. 500 head of Cattle at
a fixed price to be ofiered with the property.
WATER: Watered by 4 miles frontage to Dumaresq River and
on the back by lagoons and 2 wells with tanks, mills and troughing.
Water obtainable at from 15 to 20 feet.
REMARKS: “Wyemo” is an attractive sheep or cattle property and
is carrying a good body of grass as the result of splendid rains for
some time past.
TERMS: One-third cash, balance in equal instalments over six
years with interest at 6' z per cent payable half-yearly.
PARTICULARS OF PLANT FOR SALE ON APPLICATION.
For further Particulars apply*
H. H. JENNINGS. AUCTIONEER, TEXAS
THE CRESSBROOK PARK SADDLE
m
A HANDSOME SADDLE
DESIGNED TO GIVE
INCREASED COMFORT
AND SECURITY TO
THE RIDER.
THE “CRESSBROOK” has combined flap and
skirt sewn direct on to the seat. This method
gives a narrower, non-chafing grip, and the
shape and position of the pads give exceptional
security when needed. It is a high-grade saddle
in materials and workmanship, and is fitted
with folded-leather girth leathers and solid nickel
stirrups.
Price £l5/15/-
FRETOHT PAID FOR CASH
WITH ORDER TO N.S.W.
RAILWAY STATIONS.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE OF AUSTRALIAN AND
TEXAS SADDLERY,
K’BURRA STOCKWHIPS, BEENIE RUGS, ETC.
Walther & Stevenson, Ltd.
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. ltyan, Esq.;
r. E. Loxton, Esq. ; YVm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
okmkkali Manager —M. G. HAYMKN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, K. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
TP, nt offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general bar king business.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN *
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
m
""M/
ii
n
Happy Memories
HE charming fun-filled
table-ware that Hilda
Cowham has designed for
Shelleys makes children’s
mealtimes merry: not a baby
but will laugh at it! And
when the children of to-day
recall the jolly breakfasts
and tea-times in the old nur-
sery, mug and milk jug, plate
and saucer each with a joke
in it will not be least among
their happy memories.
Ask to see the latest
SHELLEY
Tea Sets - Nursery Ware
Coffee Sets- J*/ LucieAttweu
Morning Sets & Hilda Cowham
Dainty White Domestic Ware
• China • Jelly Moulds
m CASE Of AMY DIFFICULTY IN OBTAINING
EAT M C CO.LTD.
.CLARENCE AT.
m
5*
See, when you take Cream of Yeast, a new sense of
sparkling fitness; a morning freshness that surprises
you; a new skin-clearness. .. .PEP, ZIP and REAL
NEW HEALTH!
Cream of Yeast is an outstanding success; it rids
you of headaches, lethargy, colds, nerve pains, sleep-
lessness, upset stomach, bad breath and skin troubles
• —-makes you feel better and brighter at once!
Famous people rely on it. Start this safe, easy way
to Better Health to-day. Your chemist or store sells
Cream of Yeast —24 Tablets, 1/11; 48 for 3/6, or
123 for 8/9.
Yeast
tie
£7
Amagamated Laboratories, Kembla Building, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
JOHN FRANCIS WALLACE.—If this
J should meet the eye of John Francis Wal-
lace, formerly of Wurruk Wurruk, near Sale,
in Victoria, he is requested to communicate
with Messrs. STAVELEY & STIRLING,
Solicitors, Foster Street, Sale, from whom
he will hear to his advantage.
INFORMATION IS REQUIRED concern-
-1 ing one WILLIAM SMITH-GREEN,
who was born about 1822. and came to Neff
Zealand about 1855 as a Private in the 65th
Regiment. Married on 23rd April, 1867, at
Wellington, New Zealand, to Mary Alex-
ander, who died at Wellington, Bth Novem-
ber, 1878. It is understood William Smith-
Green left New Zealand for Australia in
that year. Anyone who can furnish infor-
mation concerning the said William Smith-
Green or place and date of his death i s
requested to kindly communicate with the
District Public Trustee, Wellington, Neff
Zealand.
Y/FRRTNDER, FRANK. Last heard of at
Nambour, Q. Mother died last Nove®'
her. Anyone having information plen- !e
communicate with brother, HAROLD V#
I RINDER, 1143 Woodward Avenue,
I land, Oregon, U.S.A.


II
s'r.'tv
yi
»H‘WI
sai ff
sasV
w,
m
&
A
WHIP
tV ,)
1 '>’ -
here is nowhere a more strange
/ variety of peoples and trades
C J than in Egypt, and one’s sense
of novelty scarcely wears off
even after a long acquaintance with
the features of the country. It is
a country which, although it appears
to be changeless, is very far from
stagnation, for one here finds every-
thing that constitutes the vitality
of the East.
Orient Line Royal Mail Steamers
call at Egypt on their voyage to
London, and passengers can spend a
delightful holiday in this historic
and romantic country, then catch
the next Orient Line ship home.
ORIENT LINE
an sweet drink
Cairo .
Illustrated literature and Fare Lists obtainable from Orient Line Offices or Agencies
M
LEIPZIG TRADE FAIR (Twice Yearly), GERMANY
Great International-Leipzig Industries Fair, AUTUMN, 1929.
Samples Fair and Engineering Fair and Building Fair.... August 25 to 31
Textile Fair August 25 to 28
Shoe and Leather Fair August 25 to 28
Subsequently another big Leipzig International Industries Fair will be held
in Spring, 1930, beginning on March 2, 1930. Letters of introduction and all
particulars gladly given.
LARS G. BRUNDAHL,
’Phones: 84006, MW2201. 6 DALLEY STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Amusements.
CYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Prank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: THE DESERT
SONG.
ROYAL: THIS YEAR OF GRACE.
CRITERION: APPLESAUCE,
PALACE: PRACULA.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
* Direction E. J. GRAVESTOCK, LTD.
SATURDAY, JUNE 29.
also
JULY 2,4, 6, 9.
FIRST TIME IN AUSTRALIA, THE WORLD-FAMED
INTERNATIONAL OPERA AND CONCERT STAR,
DUSOLINA GIANNINI
DUSOLINA GIANNINI
( “Gee-ar-nee-nee” )
From the Principal Opera Houses of Germany, Covent
Garden Opera House, London, and the leading Con-
certs of Europe and America.
“Staid London stood on its feet and yelled. In
Germany they followed the traditional habit of
honoring their heroes and heroines ; they pulled her
in her carriage down the main streets. They, stood
from five in the morning until noon to buy tickets.
They sold out her concerts twenty-four hours after
they were announced.” —New York Morning Tele-
graph, April 17, 1929.
PRELIMINARY BOOKING.
Applications are now being received for preliminary
reservations, and should be sent to E. J. Gravestock,
Ltd., 228 Pitt Street, Sydney, together with remit-
tance. Vice-regal Reserve: 12/6 (including tax, etc.,
13/8). Other reserves: 7/6 (including tax, etc.,
8/3). Unreserved Seats: 6/- and 3/- plus tax.
Plans at Nicholson’s, June, 24.
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
*'• MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
ANA PAVLOVA.
ROYAL:
THE FIVE-O’CLOCK GIRL.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Amusements.
ING 'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
IRENE HOMER in
THE PATSY.
J-JOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
BETTY BALFOUR in
PARADISE
AND
IVOR NOYELLO in
SOUTH SEA BUBBLE.
For Sale.
ETOIt SALE. —Best Island Tortoiseshell.
1 MCDONALD, Sydney. C/o ’Ph. F 2529.
Missing Friends.
D E PATRICK GRAHAM, Deceased.—
•tv Will any person knowing the where-
abouts of any relative of PATRICK
GRAHAM, formerly of Tunnack, in Tas-
mania, who died at the New Town Infirmary,
Hobart, on 13th November, 1916, communi-
cate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Hobart?
RE ELIZABETH ROSE.—Any person
knowing the whereabouts of Elizabeth
Rose, formerly Elizabeth Main, sister of
William Main, late of Temora, in the State
of New South Wales, Farmer, Deceased,
please communicate with the undersigned.
JOHN JAMIESON,
Solicitor,
Hoskins Street, Temora.
New Way Stops
Dandruff.
Grows Hair.
Six out of eight are bald or grey at 40, yet very
few need be. The hair roots can be stimulated be
new life very quickly by a new scalp-invigorating
preparation known as “Vi-Glo.” This acts on the
growth and color cells much as rain acts on a
parched plant. So long as the hair roots and coloi
glands are not dead (and they rarely die), “Vi-Glo’
will show remarkable results, growing new, youthfu
hair and restoring color to fading hair. Ask youi
i chemist for a 3/- package of “Vi-Glo” to-day, oi
send 3/4 for outfit to Vi-Glorient Co., Kembls
l Building, Sydney. Satisfaction guaranteed.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBAND
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Twenty-nine debs, were presented to Sir
John and Lady Goodwin at the ball given
at the Troc. in aid of the funds for the Mater.
Children’s Hospital. Her Ex. wore black
cobweb Chantilly lace, the epaulette sleeves
falling from a mariette bodice embroidered in
jet and the draped skirt forming a side train.
The suppen table for the vice-regents was in
the form of an E and decked with yellow
tulle, violets and golden jonquils, and the
tables reserved for the debs, and their part-
ners were beautiful with white rosebuds and
sweet-peas. '
The Governor and his lady were at the
Archbishop’s reception at Bishopsbourne. Dr.
Sharpe and his sister, Mrs. J. B. Price,
received the guests amid decorations of gum-
tips, jonquils and sweet-peas, Mrs. Price
wearing pearl grey and a high-crowned black
hat. Tea was on the lawn, with more jon-
quils. By way of variety Sir John had a
peep at the races early the same afternoon,
and the Premier and Mrs. Moore also saw a
race or two before going on to Bishopbourne,
Mrs. Moore wearing henna and grey tweed
and a buff-colored felt hat with coq plumes.
The Goodwins went to the Aero Club’s ball
at the Troc. Propeller blades and miniature
aeroplanes figured in the decorations, and the
“Glider Roll,” “Gypsy, Blues” and “Aerial
Derby” in the music. The Troc. ballet
assumed for the occasion a jazz version of the
attire of air mechanics. Flags and pink and
red roses dressed up the v.-r. alcove. Lady
Goodwin wore moonlight sequined black
mariette with an Oriental embroidered ivory
shawl. Dr. and Mrs. Hope Michod received
the guests, Mrs. Michod, in black mariette
and rhinestones, presenting Lady Goodwin
with a bunch of roses. There #were soifie
pretty gowns worn, Mrs. Roger Hartigan
choosing autumn tinted painted ninon and
Mrs. Wynham Pike Mary-blue taffetas and
Margot lace. Mrs. Elliot Smith’s peach
mariette was studded with rhinestones and
embossed in silver beads.
This is Alison Irma Dearden, whose
mother, now dead, was an authoress known
to her circle
as “Deardie.”
For years the
family lived in
Melbourne, and
then came to
Brisbane. The
lass is on holi-
day in the Vic.
capital now,
and is display-
ing a sparkler
recently
slipped on her
finger by Ed-
mund, the en-
gineer son of
Admiral Cres-
well, formerly
k head of the
Aus t r a 1 i a n
Naval Board.
A Spencer
Shier camera
made the por-
trait.
Mrs. M. Forrest gave a small luncheon
party at the Criterion to Miss Cox Taylor, of
Sydney, who is visiting Queensland for some
weeks. Miss Taylor was also a guest at the
outing of the Queensland Historical Society
to Redcliffe and Scarborough, when Dr. E. S.
Jackson expatiated on the various points of
interest.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
. Adelaide. '
The Licensed Victuallers’ R. C.’s meeting
was held under very wintry conditions, and
there was a rush for tea directly it was
on. The ladies of the committee were glad
to seek the lawn in preference to the eleva-
tion of the committee’s stand. W. A. Piper
(chairman) and Mrs. Piper entertained at
luncheon and afteruoon-tea. The hostess
wore navy blue marocain, the bodice worked
in gold, and a marmot coat matched by a
brown velour hat. Vice-royalty was not
represented, The dressing was a matter of
fur coats and wraps in every form.
One night last week the E.S.U. reception
committee gave a farewell evening for Doris
Johnson, who is leaving shortly on a trip
to England. There was a short musical
programme, followed by supper, when Mrs.
Ernest Good (president of the reception
committee) presented Miss Johnson with
a handsome leather case, mounted in gold,
containing a cheque for £26 from the
members. Miss K. de N. Lucas, who is
taking Miss Johnson’s place as secretary,
was accorded a welcome.
The Y.M.C.A. and the Y.W.C.A. have been
celebrating their jubilee this week, and the
consumption of tea has been immense. There
was an afternoon reception to wives of mem-
bers at the Lady Colton Hall, at which
the Kidman lady was the hostess, wearing
a grey satin gown and hat to match. J. J.
Virgo, who came from England to be pre-
sent, made his 29th speech since his arrival.
Mrs. P. S. Messent was convener of the
party.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Died at the week-end in Perth the widow
of. John Forrest, for 10 years Premier of
this State, holder of several Federal port-
folios and Australia’s first and only native-
born peer. His lady, who survived him by
11 years, was the beautiful Margaret
Hamersley, a member of one of our famous
Six Families. She had a great talent for
painting, and was amiable and popular. Un-
doubtedly she won her husband troops of
friends, and materially assisted his career.
She used to sit behind her Jack at his meet-
ings, beaming on the audience. She was well
known in the eastern States, and her passing
will be regretted by friends in many parts
of the Empire.
The cavalier set, with “bonnie Prince
Charlie” plumes and furbelows, took first
prize at the Children’s Hospital Ball. Not
as many there as usual, but a new note was
struck by the appearance of a huge black
swan, which waddled across the floor during
a dancing interval and made obeisance to
his Ex. Following it were eight prancing
abos. in full war regalia, partnered by maids
in wattle-colored nets with black swan head-
dresses and hemlines. The supper-room was
adorned with poinsettias, sweet peas and
gladioli, with cream and crimson roses and
maidenhair fern for the oflicial table. Mrs.
P. B. Durack, president of the large com-
mittee, was girt with black satin and lace
panels; Mrs. Goyne Miller, lion, sec., had
rhinestones on her black mariette; Miss
Manford chose daffodil yellow nets and satin ;
Sheila Hayes, who came with the v.-r. party,
was in lettuce green.
Gladys Pendred, here depicted, is the prin-
cipal of the W.A. Kindergarten College. Mel-
bourne Teach-
ers’ Training
College was
he r aim a
mater, and
there she
obtained her
diploma. Com-
plete charge of
the Colling-
wood C.E.G.S.
Free Kinder-
gar t e n fol-
lowed, where
for three years
she trained
students for
the Teachers’
College. Later
she joined the
Free Kinder-
garten Union,
and at South
M e 1 b o urne
trained more
students and was engaged in much social
work. W.A. secured her services nine months
ago, since when Miss Pcndred has become
popular not, only in kindergarten .but in
tennis and social circles.
The Mackie Fours regatta of the Swan
River Rowing iClub was held in bright sun-
shine and picturesque location. Mrs. Charles
Rippon welcomed the guests in a kasha
jumper suit wrought with Mediterranean
blue embroideries. Bottles were broken to
christen the E. L. Neville, the George Nelson
and the R. Scott. Music between the races
and the presentation of trophies followed,
and a bright little informal dance wound up
the proceedings.
Mrs. Athelstan Saw hostessed a cheery
party for her niece Eva, who leaves
shortly for England to keep an altar tryst
with Harold Casson. The lvarrakatta Club
winter garden was bright with fluffy early
wattle and hovea when Mrs. Saw, in black
with ermine stole, received the guests. The
bride-elect smiled greetings in figured crepe
de Chine in nasturtium shades, with chic felt
hat to tone. Eleven of the feminine Saws
were present, including the guest of honor’s
mother, Mrs. W. Saw, who chose a navy
ensemble. Bridge was played during the
afternoon, with an intermission for tea.
The Dibdins are leaving us for the Harbor
City, taking with them universal goodwill
and best wishes. Mrs. Arthur Male gave
them a farewell tea at the Esplanade. The
drawing-room was decked with tawny chry-
santhemums and soft sweet peas, and the
dining-room sported bowls of pink roses.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
His Ex. and daughter Margaret, with pri-
vate sec. N. E. Somers in attendance, went
to Campbell Town to attend the show held
by the Midland Agricultural Association.
The weather smiled, the merinos were
of extra special quality, and the affair was,
on the whole, considered the best for 25
years. The ring events were good, and in
the ladies’ hunter section Barbara Bennett’s
Alert, ridden by herself, came out on top.
The Old Wilkinsonians’ dance drew a
crowd to the Masonic Hall in Launceston,
where the decorations comprised a portrait
of King George, backed by the Union Jack
and Australian flags, with the Grammar and
various house flags as adjuncts. The invi-
tation list included many of the oldest friends
and patrons of the school, as well as the
youngsters of its present era, and everybody
was given a good time. Big fires in the
lounge kept things cosy for the non-dancers.
The J. J. Gatcnbys have decided to leave
Tassy for good instead of residing part-time
here and part-time in Maoriland, where their
chief properties lie. They will be much
missed in the North.
Miss Moreland, who is interested in the
preservation of peace in the world, has paid
us a visit. At a meeting convened by Mrs.
Burn, and attended by the wives of the
Premier, the Attorney-General and various
other Parliamentarians, she gave an address
that was listened to with much interest.
Mrs. Joan Harvey, who is hard at work
writing one-act plays and preparing a volume
of verses for children, has been paying a
short visit to her mother, Mrs. Cox,, Sandy
Bay.
The Smiths, of Syndal, Holebrook-place,
have sold their pretty home and are flitting
from the island in search of more warmth
and sunshine. They will stay in Sydney for
a few months, and will probably move
farther afield later.
The Rev. F. C. Williams sponsors a troop
of Boy Scouts who are bound for a trip to
the Old Country. The Tasmanian lads are
S. B. Geeves, E. M. Giblin, E. Boss-Walker,
D. Tapping, T. Pullen, R. Cottrell-Dormer
and M. Grueber.
Mrs. E. A. Peacock, with her daughter
Margaret and son Frank, is leaving for a
two-years’ trip abroad. The son will study
forestry in the United States while his
mother and sister travel about the world.


Monday to Friday—
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
From 7.30. Minimum Charge, 10/-
Saturday, Late Gala Night.
Special Table d’HOte Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
From 10 o’clock, Special Supper 12/6; or
a la carte, minimum, 12/6
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 to 6, 4/-. Parties of six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
The Ambassadors New Delightful
Dance Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and Rhythm that makes dancing an
eflortless pleasure.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
21.
EARN ALL YOU CAN—
SAVE ALL YOU CAN—GIVE ALL YOU CAN
Such was the good advice of John Wesley. You are, of course, entitled
to earn all you can, and no doubt are bending all your energies in that
direction.
Nevertheless, what you save will, in the long run, probably count for
more than what you earn.
Use the easy saving plan. Open a Commonwealth Savings Account,
and be faithful to it, for the sake of your future needs and that you
may be able to give when it is your duty to give.
famonwealtb Savings Bank of Australia
(i Guaranteed bv the Commonwealth Government).
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Tloorri Only. European Plan.
Tuning Service a. la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
m
mm
A~
Address Manager—
llGYVES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
THE QUARTERMASTER.
THIS IS THE £5OO FIRST-PRIZE NOVEL “A HOUSE IS BUILT,” BY FLORA AND MARJORIE BARNARD,
ABRIDGED BY “THE BULLETIN” FOR SERIAL PUBLICATION.
WH Norman Lmdsa/.
Synopsis: Quartermaster James
Hyde leaves the service in 1831) and
buys a combined store and dwelling
in Windmill-street, near the harbor.
His son William resents the whaling-
skipper Captain Hildebrand being
treated as a family guest and meeting
his sisters. Fanny and Maud, on terms
of friendship. Fanny, secretly deeply
attracted to Hildebrand, is delighted
when he returns from a successful
whaling trip at a time when other
inhalers arc out of luck, and, though
a story of Hildebrand's forcing the
crew to wait on when almost starring
stirs William's resentment, and turns
even the Quartermaster's friendship
into mere business relations, Fanny
falls more deeply in love, and
is seriously shocked when, offering to
elope with Hildebrand, she is mocked
and rejected. The Quartermaster,
after a vain effort to force the secret
of her sudden illness out of her, tells
the rest of the family “not to plague
her.” He also arranges for her and
Maud to go to the Godlings' farm, near
Camden, where Maud romantically
marries Humphrey Gillun. William
had thought the raiv state of the young
city and the shopkeeping too degrading
for him to bring his fiancee, Adcla, to
live there. She, however, starts out
from England, and a new home is
secured in City-road. Fanny feels
herself being crowded out of the home
life with the arrival of Maud's first
child and with the pending arrival of
Adela.
NOW they all waited for Adela. The
old life at the store had slipped so
far away from Fanny, and she was so
wrapped in her discontent, that even the
story of Mr. Giles’s collapse and Benjamin
Shirley’s translation to the flour-mill filled
her with little interest.
Mr. Giles had suffered a heart attack a,t
the mill. It was angina pectoris and his
sufferings were acute. The attack passed,
but it had been the last straw. Between
pain remembered and pain feared he be-
came, almost in a day, a querulous and
confirmed invalid. No amount of bully-
ing or exhortation could rally him. He
feared the pain more than he feaied his
wife, so she was powerless. After several
weeks there was nothing for her to do but
to tender his resignation, which she did in
a brief but pithy interview with the
Quartermaster.
The Quartermaster mopped his brow
drummed on his table and thought of
Benjamin Shirley. He was quite the best
manager for Farina Mill that he could
conjure out of the ground. Benjamin was a
pale, weedy young man whose hands were
always damp, but even this could not conceal
his absolute probity, his methodical book-
keeping and his docility. He knew the
Quartermaster’s ambitions and methods, and
he already handled that part of the mill
business which went through the store’s books.
Benjamin it should be. It was, the Quarter-
master knew, like throwing the boy to a
raging tiger; but if he had any gumption he
would protect himself in the only possible
way. The only sort of fool that Mrs. Giles
did not devour was the fool that seemed
likely to marry her daughter. Benjamin
might do worse even than that; he would
get a half-share in the flourishing mill, and
a bride who, if not young and charming,
would be submissive and grateful.
Benjamin was invited to dinner at the
new house. The Quartermaster led him
from room to room, pointing out the fea-
tures of interest. He also dropped a seed
of good advice.
“Now that you have bettered your posi-
tion, Benjamin, you should think of getting
married! A nice little heiress now, eh?”
Delighted by his finesse the Quartermaster
suddenly abandoned it. He poked Ben-
jamin in the ribs and said, “You couldn’t
do better than Miss Euphemia. The old
man can’t last, and that means a half share
in the mill.”
Silence descended on Benjamin when he
went to the mill. His reports came to hand
with the regularity of clock work, his
copperplate hand knew no his
meticulous accuracy no aberration. There
was nothing to indicate what stress he
was suffering, how his courtship progressed
or whether it progressed at all. The
Quartermaster had put the boy in the way
of a good thing; he had to do the rest for
himself.
if * * *
Late one night a messenger came from
the pilot-station. The Robert McPhee was
standing off the Heads and would berth
about nine o’clock the next morning. Be-
hind the mask of his grave face, William
knew panic. Fanny felt relief, her energies
were liberated —at last there was something
definite to do.
No sooner had the Robert McPhee cast
anchor than William and the Quartermaster
were alongside in a waterman’s boat. A
few minutes more and William was looking
into the wide hazel eyes of his Adela and
feeling amazement. Their meeting kept up
the best traditions of the British Empire.
Adela was observed to be a little pale.
She looked from William to the Quarter-
master and back again. In the closed
carriage in waiting she held Esther’s hand
tightly.
On the evening of the day after her
arrival a dinner party was arranged to
introduce Adela to the family. In the
interval Fanny rested her and made her
feel at home with efficient and competent
kindliness. She thought Adela rather a
colorless girl and hoped she was healthy;
she was pale and quiet and had an odd
disconcerting way of looking from face to
face as if she wanted something. Adela
saw little of William alone and certainly
her eyes found no answer in his face.
The dinner party was a massive affair.
At the last minute, Benjamin Shirley, who
chanced to be in town on business, was
included. Meeting Maud was painful, like
blood rushing back into a numbed limb
She saw fidelity in his every glance and
she took a sort of melancholy pleasure in
him. After dinner she cornered him.
“Tell me all about yourself,” she coaxed.
“I hear that you have been getting on
wonderfully.”
He told her a little and she surmised a
little more.
“Dear Benjamin,” she said, “I think you
ought to marry, you would be happier and
more settled.” And then in apparent irrelev-
ancy, “Euphemia is not happy.”
She left him exalted and bemused. The
next day he posted back to the mill and
within an hour of his arrival he had pro-
posed to Euphemia and been accepted.
Later in the evening she remarked to
Fanny:
“Seeing poor Benjie here reminds me
of the store. Do you remember the dinner
party we had with the Gileses and Captain
Hildebrand —and you wore a pink organdi?”
“Yes, I remember.”
She did remember; it swept over her like
a nostalgia.
William considered the dinner party a
success; everyone seemed favorably im-
pressed with Adela, and he thought that
his relations and connections must have
impressed her well, too. An entertainment
of this nature humanised the thought of
marriage. It was only tete-a-tete with
Adela that he occasionally felt a certain
inadequacy.
The wedding was fixed for a fortnight
after her arrival.
She . had unpacked her dress, a volu-
minous garment of funereal white satin
which lay swathed in sheets upon an otto-
man in her bedroom. It looked like a
ghost and gave her a fright every time she
entered the room after dark. The ball-
room at the Royal, where William and
Maud had danced the night the Rosamund
sailed two years ago, was bespoken, the
rector of St. Philip’s acquainted, the guests
bidden.
There was a prosperous blandness in all
this that chilled Adela. She had expected
something simpler and kindlier. She had
been prepared to be William’s helpmeet,
had thought so often of him as. needing
her. That, she told herself now, was vanity.
Five years lay like bars of cold iron between
them. He had changed, not she. The joy
and spontaneity of love that she had kept
alive in her heart like some vestal fire for
five years snuffed out almost in the hour
of reunion. Their marriage loomed before
her, crushing and inevitable. If any mis-
understanding had grown up it was for her
honestly and trustingly to go to him and set
matters right before the wedding. Perhaps
he was suffering just as she was. He had
always been a little diffident, a little diffi-
cult.
So hedged about was she with proprieties,
civilities and attentions that it was only
upon her wedding eve that she was able to
find the time, the place and William for a
quiet conversation. Her mood by this time
was touched with hysteria.
She came quietly behind him as he sat
reading the news-sheet, and put her arms
around his neck. He leaped politely to his
feet and offered her a chair.
“I wanted to speak to you, William.’
Her voice sounded self-conscious, instead
of warm and friendly.
“Delighted, dear Adela,” said William,
neatly folding his paper and laying it aside.
He waited; she gulped:
“Dearest, I—l wanted to talk to you
about ourselves. I have thought—it was
very silly of me—that you —that things be-
tween us are not the same as they used
to be.”
“My dearest girl, what do you mean?”
“A—a—little coldness. William, do you
still love me? Do you want to many me?”
William positively leaped. “Good
heavens, Adela, whoever put such a notion
into your head? Surely nothing I have
done or omitted to do can have given you
that impression.”
She knew that her effort was ruined,
that she had frightened and antagonised
him, and began helplessly to weep.
“Adela, I solemnly assure you that I have
never paid attention to any other woman.
I have striven to make a home worthy of
you. J and my family have done all we
could think of to make you welcome. Is
not that proof enough? You talk of cold-
ness. What can I say? Have you forgotten
that your position is a delicate one, stay-
ing here before our marriage? We must be
as circumspect as possible.”
She was weeping as quietly and as in-
offensively as she could. She could never
explain to him now. He laid his hand
gently and forgivingly on her shoulder.
“Dear Adela, you must not disturb your-
self like .this. Of course, you are strange
here still, you have not yet recovered from


"She was weeping as quietly and as inoffensively as she could."
your journey and we have been thought-
less in taking you about so much. Come,
my dearest, smile at me and say you will
be happy.”
She did smile, with trembling lips, and he
kissed her on the brow.
CHAPTER X.
Grandsons Come to the House.
In the early summer of 1845 William’s
son was born. His advent was the crown-
ing triumph of a good year. When Katie
laid the swaddled atom in William’s arms
he felt a depth of emotion that he had not
known since the early days of his love
for Adela. The emotion was sudden. He
had automatically wanted a son, but he
had not thought of a baby as a son. This
baby was a son from his first breath. He
made William feel safe, he assured the
future. William solemnly kissed the child and
laid him ceremoniously in the Quarter-
master’s arms. The Quartermaster was red
in the face with pleasure and emotion. He
received and blessed his grandson. The
occasion was a almost formal one.
For days the Quartermaster thought of
little but his grandson. Half the water-
front had drunk to the child before the
week was out. The Quartermaster went
about beaming, receiving congratulations
and taking the credit. This parade of his
private affairs was vexing to William, but
William’s cranks weighed no more with the
Quartermaster than of old, though his judg-
ment did.
For months now he had been thinking of
extending the wharves. William, in the light
of the financial crisis of two years before,
had thrown cold water on the idea. The
Quartermaster had grunted and grumbled
and gone on thinking. The birth of the
grandson resolved his doubts.
“We’ll get to work on that new wharf
now,” he announced, as if all were settled.
William raised his eyebrows and looked
cold. He thought the birth of a child,
however important, an irrelevant reason
for building a wharf. But the Quarter-
master, secure in this token of divine favor
to his house, defied reason. He soon
trumped up some reasons as a concession
to the doubting William.
“The boom’s coming and we must be
ready for it. By the time the other fel-
lows have decided the good times have
come to stay, we must be ready to snap
up the trade—see, William?”
“Yes, papa, that’s all very true if your
premises are correct, but there may be no
boom. I beg you to be cautious.”
“No boom, William! Good God, boy,
I’d have christened you Thomas if I’d
known how you were going to turn out.
No boom!”
Before James was a fortnight old the
Quartermaster had called for tenders for
the new wharf.
The child made him think of the past as
much as of the future. He measured the
distance between his son’s birth and his
grandson’s. William had been born in a
London lodging-house to nothing in par-
ticular. William’s son in a commodious
and elegant house to an ever-increasing in-
heritance.
Tlie event was like a hill from which
he could look back. He did look back,
always with the thought of the grandson
in his mind. He did not regret the years
in the navy. A man learned what was
what in the navy! It seasoned him. A
process like the* slow rising of cream to
the top of milk had taken place in him,
so that at fifty he was able to bring to
his work faculties concentrated, not
depleted. He had done the work of four-
teen years in seven. He had built a busi-
ness and on that firm foundation he was
building a family. He had three rules and
to them he attributed his success. The first
was never to lend money. When a master
or an owner came to him in difficulties, if
he thought the venture sound he offered
not an advance but a partnership. He pre-
ferred a partner to a debtor any day. A
partnership carried a voice in control; it
ensured custom to his store. It was better
than straight-out ownership, because it
secured the interested services of the
partners which was as valuable as gold.
With the American whalers filling the Pacific
he had sold his share of the Rosamund, his
first venture, at just the right moment. It
had been a relief to get rid of that fellow
Hildebrand, though he was the finest whal-
ing captain in the Pacific, damn him! Then
other enterprises of a like nature had fol-
lowed. Each had been a rung by which
he had climbed a little higher. In seven
years his business had developed into a
complicated mechanism, all the levers ready
to his accustomed hand.
His second rule was never to touch any-
thing but necessities. It secured him against
any passing depression. But, beyond that
he liked necessities, they were substantial
and immortal. The Quartermaster was no
gambler; he built his business solidly.
His third rule was never to undertake
anything that did not fit in with his other
activities. He was determined to keep all
the threads in his own hands. His business,
though complex, was compact; part fitted
to part and made a whole. His partners
became his customers and the customers of
one another. The thing bred in, and it
bred money. He was the centre, the nucleus.
He made profit, but he made it fairly,
profiting those he traded with.
From his hilltop the Quartermaster
looked back not only on his own activities,
but on the growth of a nation. When he
had arrived, seven years ago, New South
Wales had been a colony with a bad name,
Sydney a small town, Melbourne in its
infancy. A year later transportation had
been abolished, and by that act New South
Wales had passed from a convict settlement
to a colony. She would soon live down
the convict element—a generation and it
would be gone; two, three generations and
(Continued on next page.)


ALBERT DORRINGTON
Every reader of “The Bulletin" of 1 0 to 20 years ago will remember
Albert Dorrington, the most brilliant storyteller of that period. His
success carried him to London, where he has published many
books and taken his place among the foremost fiction writers of
this generation. He returns to “The Bulletin with
“Judson Sees It Through.”
NEXT WEEK, JUNE 26.
Babies
thrive on
it is so
nourishina and
easy to digest
In4siz«s
of all Chemists & Stores
VICHY
3
SMm
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
tryryrty
After
Smoking!
It is always
good to take the
"Allenburys” Gly-
cerine and Black
Currant Pastilles.
They sooth an irri-
tated throat and relieve
dryness of the mouth.
‘Allenburcys
Glycerine &
Black Currant
PASTILLES
it would be forgotten. This was the land
of the second chance; he took off his hat
to it. Free settlers would come out more
and more now. It was foolish to gauge
the progress of New South Wales by that
of Sydney. Everywhere settlers were push-
ing out into the country, taking it foot
by foot. Wheat and wool and meat were
necessities the world over, and Australia
would some day produce these in untold
quantities. The world could not do without
her products, and so it was inevitable that
she would prosper. His grandson would
be safe here, he would have a big field.
He’d go far, bless him!
Adela longed passionately for her mother.
She was no match for the Hydes. She felt
that they had pounced on her baby the
moment he was bom and made him ex-
clusively theirs. She could see that William
was deeply moved by his fatherhood, that
the Quartermaster was triumphant and
expansive, that even Fanny congratulated
herself on the birth of an heir to the house
of Hyde, and it angered her that they
should take such a personal view of the
child, delighting in him not for himself,
but because he fed their pride. They
monopolised the baby; because he bore
their name, they thought he was theirs.
They took advantage of Adela’s being
tired and weak; they went on with
their robust and forceful lives over
her head, and they snatched the baby
right away into that life and shut the door
upon her. When she was lying quietly
with her baby in the bend of her arm her
anger and resentment seemed like a foolish
dream. But the contentment did not last.
When she saw their eager possessive eyes
fixed on the child, she knew her fancy was
no dream. His physical dependence on her
meant nothing at all beside his spiritual
affinity with them—a soul that they had
wished on him while he still had none of
his own..
Of course, everyone had been very sweet
to her—most solicitous and considerate.
William had given her a diamond ring, had
praised her, had kissed her reverently upon
the forehead. The Quartermaster had meta-
phorically clapped her on the back, and
produced an amethyst brooch from his
pocket with an air of insufferable benevo-
lence. Never did a baby have so fine a
layette before, because Fanny and Adela
had tried to outsew each other in hidden
bitter competition. Adela had obstinately
bought pink ribbon, and Fanny had obsti-
nately bought blue, and the baby had
meanly put his mother in the wrong from
the outset by being a boy.
It was inevitable that the baby should
be called after the Quartermaster. Adela
admitted the propriety of this, but wished
they had made more show of consulting
her. It seemed very remarkable to her
that she should be the mother of a person
called James Crosby Hyde, but James every-
one persistently called him, so that she got
used to it in time. Everybody, on behold-
ing James Crosby Hyde, politely exclaimed
“llow like his papa the darling is!” and
as the months passed, as if through the
force of suggestion he certainly grew more
and more like William. The thought actu-
ally occurred to Adela that perhaps he was
more William’s than hers, that she had not
cared enough, or wanted him enough, before
he was born. She knew now, too late,
that a mother should fight for the soul of
her child from the very moment that she
dreams of his existence. She had been
apathetic and perplexed and sad.
Her year of married life had been a
time of half-incredulous disappointment.
She had ceased to be Adela Gage and had
become William’s wife, the Quartermaster’s
daughter-in-law, Fanny’s sister. She had
left her world for theirs. There was Esther,
of course, who should have been her ally,
but poor Esther was a liability, rather than
an asset. She didn’t “get on” with Fanny,
and Adela, having brought her into the
house, felt responsible. She was near-
sighted, pink-nosed and garrulously humble,
forcing her victims a hundred times a day
to assure her that she was welcome, that
she need not leave the room. Esther
afforded Adela no shelter.
Adela made good resolutions, lying in the
big bed with the baby in her arms. She
would put away childish things; she would
stop trying to prise open William’s heart
to find out whether he really loved her;
she would school herself to want nothing
that she could not have. Very likely there
was no such thing as romance in real life.
She began to cry softly and helplessly.
As her emotion petered out, Adela sur-
veyed her relations-in-law out of a dis-
passionate weakness. She could look at
them from the vantage point of the big
bed. The Quartermaster was her friend;
they liked one another. He called her
“Addie,” and obstinately set his face against
the atmosphere of conventional perfection
that William was trying to create, out of
not very promising material, for his home.
The Quartermaster was generous, kind; he
let fresh air into her life. But he could
never be her companion, far less her con-
fidant.
It .was Fanny who understood; the clarity
with which Fanny understood everyone was
rather terrible at times. She understood
but did not sympathise. Her grey eyes
would pierce Adela’s depression and say to
her, “Well, you would come, you know,”
while with every word that her lips spoke
Fanny was pretending that Adela was
the happiest and most fortunate person
in the world. Fanny’s eyes and lips
were always contradicting one another.
Adela had seen her, sitting at the
end of a long, quiet evening, suddenly idle,
staring at her sewing with something wild
and frightened in her eyes and her mouth
twisted in a sort of bitter comprehension.
She was unapproachable; she never wanted
people to do anything for her or to give her
their confidence, and she would never give
hers. Adela wanted to love Fanny, and
even more she wanted Fanny to love her,
to take her in behind her wall of reserve;
but she did not suppose that it would
ever come about.
Maud was so different, you would hardly
think they could be sisters. She was so
happy that she stirred Adela to a pang
of wistful envy. Why was Maud so very
happy? Had she and Humphrey some
secret that Adela and William should never
discover, no matter how hard they looked?
Adela know all about Maud’s marriage
—how when they had stood before Mrs.
Gillam hand in hand like two children.
Maud had been stricken with an unbearable
pity and remorse to think that her happi-
ness and Humphrey’s could make anyone
look so old and sad, and had impulsively
flung herself into her terrible mother-in-law’s
arms crying “I could not help it! I love him
so. I’m sorry, so sorry.” And presently Mrs.
Gillam had dried their cheeks and had warned
Maud against various weaknesses in Hum-
phrey’s character, and all had been well, for
the moment at least. Adela felt she could
love Maud herself, but Maud’s happiness was
like a wall about her, making her invincible.
That was what was the matter with all the
Hydes, they were invincible —the Quarter-
master in his commonsense, William in his
conventionality, Maud in her happiness,
Fanny in her pride.
“Is there nothing I can give any of them?”
thought Adela. She looked at the baby.
“He will be invincible, too. He will want
nothing that only I in all the world can
give him.”
* * * *
When Adela looked back afterwards at
the period between the birlh of her sons,
the two years scarcely seemed to exist, a
mere crack in time.
There is a form of the eternal triangle
that is not romantically sensational and is
described when there are two women and
one house. Adela was the de jure, Fanny the
de jacto mistress of the house in City-road.
Adela had the advantage of being the
mother of James and the disadvantage of
being the cousin of Esther. Fanny had the
advantages of prior occupation and of the
deep-grounded and habitual loyalty of
Katie. She had also so impressed the family
with her competence that it was taken for
granted that the household could not get
on without her. Each lady was hampered
by her acute realisation of the other’s rights.
They concealed their heartburnings under
the decorous flow of their social and
domestic life. Adela was never alone.
When she went shopping, either Fanny or
Esther accompanied her. They spent the
long quiet afternoons at home, sewing to-
gether behind the green lace of the pepper-
trees or paid solemn formal calls. Occa-
sionally the Quartermaster and William
escorted them to a concert or the Royal
Victoria Theatre.
When they fared forth thus to enjoy
themselves, the strictest decorum was
observed within the family. Adela, as the
wife, wore the most handsome gown, the
greatest quantity of jewellery, and was
handed in and out of the carriage first;
Fanny, as sister and spinster, dressed more
plainly; and Esther, as dependent, dressed
very plainly indeed, and contented her-
self with a simple locket containing a
wreath of her sainted mamma’s hair. She
sat with her back to the horses. _
Adela greatly preferred these excursions
to the dinner parties which it was her duty
to give. If it were a grand dinner party,
they hired two waiters and one pineapple,
and had trouble with Katie in the kitchen;
if it, were just an ordinary one, they man-
aged. But one was as boring as the other,
except when they made Adela homesick by
reminding her of her papa.
Maud’s parties were much more sprightly,
but there would not be many more of them.
Maud announced her news one day. “Hum-
phrey,” she said, “does not care for his
papa’s business. He wants to grow sheep
and wheat and things, so we are going to
live at Camden.”
In the years that followed, Humphrey
grew wheat and wool to the contentment
of his heart and the depletion of his father’s
fortune, and Maud presented him with a
baby about once in eighteen months.
Maud’s departure for the country, whence
she only emerged two or three times a
year to christen a baby or buy a stock of
bonnets and gowns most unsuited to coun-
try life, left a blank in the social life of
the household at City-road. Fanny felt
it most deeply, and said least. Adela, who
observed Fanny closely, suspected something
of this and tried to be kind and gentle to
her. This increased the tension at City-
road, for Fanny disliked being observed and
suspected pity. She was evasively cheerful
and harshly matter-of-fact, and, without an
impolite word or unsisterly act, managed to
repel Adela and to make it quite plain to
her that she wanted neither help nor sym-
pathy. Adela winced and drew back.
Esther blindly and well-meaningly piled
fuel on the smouldering fire, and James com-
placently allowed his nice fat little body
to become a bone of contention. But with
Victorian humility they all tacitly agreed
to hide their little unpleasantnesses from
William and the Quartermaster. With
minute and resourceful tactlessness Esther
built up a situation that became unbear-
able. The crisis came on Adela’s birthday.
The store and wharves were busy. The
Quartermaster had slept there two nights
and would sleep one more. William returned
late at night and left early. Weariness made
him stiff and exacting and he was very tired.
In the circumstances, Adela’s birthday
could not be celebrated on the proper day.
She accepted this cheerfully as a matter of
course, but William wounded and annoyed
her by his obvious effort to placate her
supposed resentment with laborious explana-
tions. When she protested that she expected
nothing and quite understood, her annoy-
ance put an edge on her voice which William
mistook for pique that she should be set
aside for the business. He explained again
more minutely. He was hurt that she
should be unreasonable when he was so
tired, and she was hurt that he should so
misjudge her. They retired to bed in an
inimical silence, and when Adela wanted
to make- it up W'illiam was asleep. Adela
thought of other birthdays and felt home-
sick.
She woke up to a sense of anti-climax.
Despite her repudiation of the night before,
she missed her birthday very much. It had
always been such a gay and important occa-
sion. Now she had only an overcast
thundery day and a sulky husband.
Adela had barely reached the foot of the
stairs when a terrible tumult broke out
over her head, and presently above the
tumult rose James’s voice in a wail of fear
and surprise. Fanny and Adela arrived in
the nursery simultaneously, but the noise
came from Esther’s room next door. Both
tried to take the baby and Adela got him.
The noise resolved itself into a cockatoo
and Esther.
“Oh,” gasped Esther, “it’s my surprise!
For your birthday, dear Adela. He’ll be
all right in a minute. The man said he
was very well behaved. Hush, Cockie, hush.
Do you like him, Adela? I thought it would
be such a surprise.”
“It is a surprise,” said Adela weakly.
“However did you”
The cockatoo was very white but rather
overpowering. Adela sagged a little under
the honor. Fanny compressed her lips and
her expression said quite clearly “This is
not my affair. You can fill your own house
with cockatoos if you like, but I do think
you might consider William and James.”
Her face said all this quite clearly.
The day dragged to an unhappy evening.
Fanny read, Adela sewed upon a dress for
James, and Esther sat at the table writing
and tearing up what she had written and
dabbing her eyes. After about an hour she
came to where Adela sat and mutely held
out a sheet of paper. Adela read:—
A refined gentlewoman is open for en-
gagement for the instruction of young ladies
in the arts of fashionable handwriting, bead
work and ecclesiastical embroidery either
in a gentleman’s household or at a select
seminary. Apply “Minerva,” Sydney Morn-
ing Herald.
“But, dear Esther”
“I am determined,” said Esther in a
choking voice, being as heroic as anyone
can be with a red nose. “Do not try to
dissuade me, dear Adela. I am sure our
dear rector would testify to my character.”
Adela was touched. “You must do as
you like, dear Esther, but do not think for
a moment that we want to lose you.”
“I know you don’t, my love, and it
troubles me to think how you will get on
without me. But my decision is unalter-
able.” And Esther retired to bed with
tearful dignity.
Adela was waiting up for William. Fanny
had retired to her room, but her candle still
burned. It often burned late into the
night, but no one knew what vigil she
kept. Esther had gone to bed in the odor
of eucalyptus, and passing her door Adela
had heard her crying. She had gone in and
comforted her, brushing back the damp
disordered hair and smoothing the rumpled
bed in the twilight of one shielded candle.
She had looked at James and he was asleep.
The night-light burned a tiny yellow flame
in a bubble of opal glass, like a taper be-
fore some altar.
The air was thin and cool, the night of
a clean blackness, and the smell of the
wet grateful garden came in through the
windows. After many vicissitudes Adela
had a sense of well-being. The day had
been a great swollen bladder of trouble;
then something had pricked it and it was
gone. She had seen the day’s animosities
as pitiful and comic. Fanny had lost some
of her supremacy. Adela was glad for her-
self that she was inside out of the rain of
spinsterhood. She was safe in William and
James. She thought that it was envy of
herself that had made Fanny and Esther
quarrel, and was ashamed and humiliated
by the thought.
William, returning wet and tired, looked
young and thin. When he had changed
his wet clothes she served him his supper,
“What did you do to-day, my love?” he
asked.
(Continued on page 58.)


COUCHS
CUDS CHIP
BRONCHITIS
£***
year man
COSTS
2 r
SAVES
k
Over one million Australian citizens
annually save much money by mak-
ing this wonderful family cough and
influenza remedy. Obtain from your
chemist or store a two-shilling bottle
of concentrated Heenzo, and add it
to sweetened water. By doing this
you will have a supply equal in
quantity and superior in quality to
eight ordinary-sized bottles of the
usual ready-made-up cough mixtures
that would cost up to £l. You will
be delighted with the speedy way
Heenzo soothes sore throats, eases
the chest and banishes coughs, colds
and influenza.
Mr. JIM GERALD writes
Dear Heenzo, —Sir Harry Lauder’s famous
words were: *1 tried Heenzo and found it
good.” Them’s my sentiments —for I
appreciate the fact that, by just adding
sweetened water to a two-shilling bottle
of concentrated Heenzo, I am able to make
about £l’s worth of easily the best medicine
I have ever used for chest and throat ail-
ments. —Yours for Health and Laughter,
JIM GERALD.
MR. JIM GERALD,
the popular comedian.
HEENZO
should be used in evert/ home
HEADACHES HEAVINESS
INDIGESTION
Eno will combat
these symptoms of
faulty elimination
We’ve all experienced it-—for it happens to everyone
sometimes. This getting up in the morning tired*,
headachy, dizzy, with a bad taste in the mouth. These
are usually signs of constipation, often unsuspected, but
nevertheless dangerous to ignore.
Eno’s “Fruit Salt” deals with these “ills of civilisation”
in much the same way that regular exercise, fresh air
and simple food would do. For Eno prompts the most
important of the bodily functions to work dutifully and
to time. Eno removes the waste and poisons of yester-
day from the system, safely, naturally and thoroughly.
Yet Eno is so mild you can give it to any child. Follow
this golden rule of family health, proved for sixty
years; a glass of Eno’s “Fruit Salt”—sparkling and
refreshing—first thing every morning.
ENOS
“FRUIT SALT"
7*
0
SVffmW onfy
e: &no £td.>
London, Gngland
Salts repents:
c &he fflritish fJCarcld
< SF. Slitc'.iic & Go. £td.
Sydney, <SV. <S. C W,
mm
■n
yj -J
o
,/■
v./y?:
r
r
AvWW
IV'
thousand night L
and one night
Cffit REAL
ArabianNigkis
'With nothinleft out f
THESE are the marvelous tales which Scheherezade,
doomed to death, related to the King, that he might
stay the hand of execution. She had wondrous tales to
tell, some of boiling passion, some of rollicking humour,
some of deep pathos ; but all of the purest romance. The King
could not resist their intense human appeal. He must hear
them all. The executioner’s knife rested in its sheath. For
One Thousand Nights and One Night this queen of story-
tellers entertained His Majesty as no king or commoner had
ever been entertained before —nor has been since 1
The “ Arabian Nights ” is honoured in all countries as
man's finest achievement and legacy in Romantic Fiction .
The “ London Times ” says : “ Burton cut out a great
deal . The Mardrus version is very much fuller in detail.”
This great masterpiece has been printed from the revised
manuscript of E. Powys Mathers. New plates have been made.
New illustrations have been painted. Now, for the first time,
those wondrous stories of “ The Thousand and One Nights ”
are made available to Australian readers in all their original
splendour. The fragmentary translations with which you are
familiar —abridged, revised, expurgated, usually presented
in a single volume —can give you little conception of the true
nature of these exotic Oriental masterpieces.
A great French artist, Dr. J. C. Mardrus, has given us a literal
translation of the unblushing Arabian text. Rendered into
English by E. Powys Mathers ; an accurate English version
of every word in the original tales.
FREE booklet
K descriptive booklet, giving full de-
tails will be sent free on request.
Mail the coupon for your copy
at once. Only a limited
number of sets are
available for dis-
tribution in
Australia.
The
WAVERLEY
BOOK CO.
12 Spring St., Sydney
P.Q. Box 1767 K
Without obligation or cost
to me, kindly forward your booklet,
describing u The REAL Arabian Nights
Name
Address.
Bulletin, 19/6/29.


MICK SIMMONS
Feature Some
Specialty Lines
from Several
Departments
The Wonder
SCISSOR
SHARPENER
z
Z/ze ,
Little Wopwjer"
3 US
Price, 1/6; Post Paid.
The simplest sharpening device ever made.
A few light rubs and your old, blunt
scissors are as sharp as new. Invaluable
to the woman in the country.
Regulate the Home with a
HOMECLOX
ALARM
12
11
2
/
9
a
4
5
6
The Apollo Model.
Price, 13/6
With Luminated Dial, 16/6
Others from 6/6.
All guaranteed timekeepers that will serve
you faithfully for years.
Postage extra on Clocks.
“CORONET”
CAMERAS
The Cheapest Guaranteed
Roll Film Camera
Simple to use. Takes perfect pictures.
Fit any make of film. Made in Eng-
land.
Size, x 1 fin.
Price,
6/6
Postage extra.
Fitted with “Rap-Sure” Meniscus Lens, Time and
Instantaneous Shutter, 2-Stop Diaphragm, Reflex
View-finder, and Direct Vision View-finder. A wonder-
ful little camera, perfect in detail and craftsmanship,
embodying the most modern ideas in simple picture
making.
A Masterpiece in
BLADE RAZORS!
THE “SILVA BEL”
Hand - forged,
hollow - ground,
of the finest Sil-
ver Steel. For
saloon or private
use
PRICE,
9/6
MICK SIMMONS Ltd
Headquarters: 720 Haymarket,
Sydney.
COME NORTH
Where the Sun is Always Shining and the Sky
is Clear
WORLD TRAVELLERS Say: North Queensland is Fairyland. Scenery
Rivals the Best Anywhere. Passage and Hinchinbrook
Channel Surpass in intrinsic Beauty the most-famed Waterways of
the World.
CALM, CORAL SEAS, ISLAND-GEMMED, REEF-SHELTERED.
Vast Pastoral Plains, Wonderful Artesian Bore Waters.
BARRON GORGE, CAIRNS RAILWAY, NORTH Q UEENSLAND.
QUEENSLAND
QUEENSLAND
For FINEST RAILWAY SCENIC TRIP,
Brisbane to Cairns-Barron Falls, through
vast Sugar Plantations and Tropical
Fruit Farms.
GREAT WATERFALLS, CRATER
LAKES, CAVES, Tropical Blooms and
Colored Foliage.
Inquire regarding Bookings jor Railways “RESO” Winter Tours.
Booklets and all Particulars Free from ; —
Government Intelligence and Tourist Bureau
Ann-Edward Streets, BRISBANE.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
56 Margaret Street.
T. C. TROEDSON,
Director
us^S e ’
-
tt ki W*- oi SC^ 0(
de "
W» a °l* V Vlft CO.. l-*N.*
p etldab * '
yet
*jot
"\& y
•• S*» tt
v” ? etYl
?e ns, “ BU
SW ee \’. s «an’
- »»tfvft®*
itvd r
9 W
0? «#sS*
9*
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN’*
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS.
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
The Next Ten Years
In British Social and Economic
Policy. By G. D. H. COLE,
author of “Self-Government in
Industry,” “The World of
Labor,” etc. 1 ss. net.
A re-valuation and re-statement of Labor
and Socialist Policy.
The Problem of Industrial
Relations
And Other Lectures. By HENRY
CLAY, M.A., author of “Eco-
nomics: an Introduction for the
General Reader.” 1 2s. net.
Puffin, Puma & Co.
By F. GWYNNE EVANS. Illus-
trated by GEORGE MORROW.
7s. 6d. net.
***A book of children’s verse, witty, whim-
sical and entertaining; with most amusing
illustrations.
Thoughts from Rabindranath
Tagore
With 4 portraits. 7s. 6d. net.
This work contains many passages from
material hitherto unpublished in England.
Women Are Like That
By E. M. DELAFIELD, author of
“What is Love?” etc.
[Empire Library.
Times: “A collection that will give satis-
faction in the best sense to Miss Delafield’s
admirers.... Extremely entertaining.”
To be Obtained from a/l
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
“Your Food has
been the turning
point to my baby”~
so says a Victorian mother.
Another mother says:
“Baby weighed only 3§ lbs.
when a fortnight old. We tried
several foods then we dis-
covered ‘Benger’s/ Baby took
Benger’s without trouble. She
gained 12 ozs. the first week.
She is now 8 months old, and
weighs 16 lbs. - a happy, plump,
and healthy little girl. ”
Food
Keg. Tbadb Mark.
Send for Benger's Booklet, post free,
BENGER’S FOOD Ltd..
350, George Street, SYDNEY.
HAIR.
V
0^
NEED
HERES
tryryrty
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to ' any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
&OJLms (.MEXICAN)
likUtud Siaifix,
Removes the grey**
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
1} unobtainable locally, posted
direct (.i/6), 6d. being postage.
tryryrty


Jor Mellow Mild
I
J
li?
ll
Select Club Reil Cigars, because they are
made of rich Havana leaf, fragrant and
flavorsome. . . .and delightfully mild. Club
Reil Cigars are obtainable at hotels and
tobacconists’ or at address below.
ORDER BY POST,
Pfc
CRAIG &AITKEN - 654 GEORGE ST, SYDNEY
DISTRIBUTORS FOR CLUB REI L CIGAR FACTORY.
TVmemSTER
TRADE MAR*
FLASHLIGHTS AND BATTERIES
Wf/
■Sfc.
1
HJJSWSJMJAL
■MX /
WAhSoti
lUMUJMIl i
«s
K
y\
5s?
SI
§
s
K
—as Qood as the Qun
IF you know Winchester Rifles
and Shotguns you know Win-
chester quality. And you will
find this same fine quality in
Winchester Batteries and Flash-
lights—a light adapted to every
use, with special features of con-
struction and convenience that
no other flashlight gives.
In the three-cell focusing flash-
light shown above, note the stur-
dy construction, the deeply cor-
rugated case, the positive, easily
operated switch and the octagon
cap which keeps the light from
rolling off a table when you lay
it down. Note particularly the
special hook hanger by which
you can hook your light to belt
or pocket or to a rod, cord, au-
tomobile hood, tree branch—and
at many other points where a
light cannot usually be hung.
When you think of Winchester, think of
flashlights and batteries as well as of guns.
WINCHESTER REPEATING 20
ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN, CONN., U. S. A.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
THE WORLD’S LARGEST COMMERCIAL FORESTRY CO.
SUBSCRIBED SHARE CAPITAL £235,586
SUBSCRIBED BOND CAPITAL £2,750,000
BANKERS—THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND AND THEIR AGENTS.
SOLE BROKERS—SMITH, WYLIE AND CO., LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN BRANCHES AT MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE,
PERTH, HOBART AND NEWCASTLE.
Kpm ZEALAND BRANCHES—AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON, CHRISTCHURCH AND DUNEDIN :
AND AT 36-38 NEW BROAD STREET, LONDON, E.C.2 ; JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA ;
BOMBAY, INDIA; SINGAPORE; KUALA LUMPUR, FEDERATED MALAY STATES.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN ’
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Wild Pig's.
ANOTHER DELIGHTFUL YARN, IN WHICH STEELE REDD SENDS HIS
MATES PIG-HUNTING.
YOU'LL find the evenings getting long and
hard to put in at the little homestead.
They'll pall on you sometimes and
fill you with memories of the real home
you knew in years now far arear. And it
will all be because you’ve at last made up
your mind to get married. You’ll sit think-
ing and wondering if you arc going to do
I he right thing or not. With no one to
consult or confide in, it will seem harder
for you to decide. And so you’ll sit think-
ing and dreaming back, turning over little
mistakes, false steps and chances let -slip,
while your pipe will burn out and Rover,
stretched as usual at your feet, will sigh
and snore in his sleep.
Knocking the ash from the pipe into the
tire and pondering more and more, you'll
start counting up what you've got to marry
on. You’ll estimate the value of your stock
and improvements, including the horse-col-
lar you found on the way home from the
factory, and a new bucket and a good two-
inch rope that some absent-minded beggar
left at your windmill; then you'll add the
increased value of your holding as per the
shire rate-notice, which, of course, will be
50 per cent, below real value, for the shire
councillors, as you’ll know, are landholders
themselves. Then, when you’ve appraised
the cash value of your growing wheat-crop
and included factory returns for six months
ahead as a fair thing, you’ll have made your
assets look so satisfactory that you'll start
smiling and liberally filling your pipe again.
You’ll confess to the snoring Rover that you
feel you were a dashed fool ever to have been
afraid of getting married, and that you’re
dog-darn sorry you didn't do it long ago.
Soon you’ll be chuckling to yourself,
“Now who the deuce would have thought
I’d ever be worth so much as that?” when
a friendly kick on the door and sounds of
welcome voices outside will bring you back
to yourself again. Even Rover will prick
his ears and look pleased for your sake,
jealous as he is of you.
The visitors will be the two Ryan boys
and young McCleverty; knowing that you
are soon to be spliced, they’ve, come over
to spend the last of many good evenings
with you. Single fellows in the bush all
know that when one of themselves gets
married it’s the last of him as far as his
old mates are concerned. On the Ryan boys
and young McCleverty, who’ve always found
your bachelor quarters more of a home to
them than their own abode, your passing
into married life will have a very melan-
choly influence; though, of course, they’d
be the last to make you aware of it. Bush
youths are like women in that respect.
“Here he is,” they’ll chuckle gladly as they
file in out of the darkness, “filling his old
cherry pipe as usual, and talkin’ to th’
bloomin’ dawg, and lettin’ th’ darn fire go
out —and us blokes freezin’. Cripes !”
Grinning happily, you’ll greet them with
a “Hello!” and motion them to sit down.
But Mickie Ryan, the leader of the trio,
remarking censoriously that “he hasn’t got
a darn stick to put on it,” will go out to
visit the woodheap while the others, seat-
ing themselves in their accustomed places,
will cheerfully advise the dog to keep his
feet and tail out of the way if he doesn’t
want them squashed.
Then Mickie Ryan will enter again loaded
up with wood, and when the fire is blazing
brightly and Rover sitting up blinking his
eyes in appreciation of it and everyone
settled comfortably, you'll want to know
what the latest news is.
On past occasions they’d invariably
drawl, “Nothin’ much; only the same old
thing, Dick!” But on this evening their
eyes will light up, and, turning beaming
faces to each other, they will hesitate, each
expecting one of the others to make answer.
Then Mickie Ryan, remembering lie’s the
oldest, will, act as spokesman.
“By laws. Dick,” he’ll smile, “we’ve got
something fresh this time —something that
the four of us here could make money out
of.”
“Money!” you’ll grin ; and you’ll feel your
blood beginning to tingle.
“It’s right, Dick,” the other two, then-
eyes sparkling, will confirm; “but wait till
he tells you.”
“Ghost, yes, Dick,” Mickie will proceed;
“you’ll think so, too, directly. Remember
the time you and me saw those wild pigs
at the head of King’s Creek, near Steven-
hansen’s, close up three years ago?”
“There wasn’t more than half a dozen of
them, was there?” you’ll say—you’ll re-
member that, too.
“Well, us coves were up at the head of
the creek only a couple of days ago, these
two chaps and me, and instead of half a
dozen —Christopher! we came across sixty
or seventy of them.”
“I counted fifty myself from where I
was,” young McCleverty will put in ex-
citedly.
“But you didn’t see all those that I saw,”
Johnny Ryan in turn wall claim proudly.
“Course there must have been a ’ell of
a lot more that none of us seen,” Mickie
will go on, impressing you; “and there
were all kinds of them, too, Dick; some
fat as fools, and they all went like hunted
devils for the undergrowth along the creek
soon as they saw us.”
You’ll get interested and start visualising
those wild pigs. You’ll think of their in-
creasing numbers—begin estimating the value
of them, calculating the chances of securing
them —till your blood in anticipatory pride
of possession w-ill circulate rapidly.
“The ones that I got close to were round
and sleek as any you’ve got topped off in
your sties now. Dick —would have brought
a fiver a head easy, the way pigs were
going a couple of weeks ago,” young
McCleverty will exaggerate; and Johnny
Ryan will vouchsafe that his old man “never
sent better away, with all the feed he puts
into them.”
After moments of silence, during which
you'll be thinking profoundly, and Rover
will be settling his hairy form sniigly round
about your feet again, the others will won-
der if it would be posgible to get the
beggars into a yard somehow or other, all
the time looking to you for the solution.
“Well,” you'll respond slowly, “they're a
good distance from the railway to do much
with them after you’d put them in the
yard, but the four of us here could get a
lot of sport yarding them.”
That will rouse the hunting spirit of your
visitors, and their eyes will flash suddenly
as street-lamps just lighted.
“I never did any yarding wild pigs,”
young McCleverty will stutter with enthusi-
asm, wriggling into a more comfortable
position on his box seat, while tin* ltyan
boys will reckon that “a cove w,ould want
to be on a pretty good horse—and a pretty
handy one, too —to yard ’em in that sort
of country, wouldn't he?”
Not only will the spirit of pursuit and
of possession have gripped you, but you’ll
be stirred now to a consciousness of superi-
ority by the way they’re looking to you.
And while they’re regarding you with eyes
brimming with expectation your mind will
rush back to those reckless years you spent
’way back in the wilds of the West; and
your visitors, remembering the thrilling tales
you had recounted in evenings gone by,
will ask:
“What sort of horses did you fellows have
when you used to hunt the wild pigs on the
Maranoa, Dick?”
“Gad, they were the best that ever any
fellow put a leg across,” you’ll be pleased to
answer, for it will be back to those very
horses and pig-hupts your mind had taken
you.
“Tell us about it. Dick!”
And again you’ll recount to them how
Wallumbilla Creek, below the old head
station and across by Pickenjinnie flats, was
alive with wild pigs when you w,ere there.
That was after the banks had taken over
and the station was pretty well deserted
and getting over-run with prickly-pear. The
few head of cattle, some of them cleanskins.
you’ll remember, were worked by the hands
on Blythedale, further up. Long Alec Mac
Lennan was in charge of the two places, and
you were one of the stockmen. You'll smile
reflectively as you confess that all any of
you did most of the year was to watch the
prickly-pear spreading and the wild pigs
breeding in it as- fast as rabbits.
“H'ow many were there, Dick?” will come
eagerly from young McCleverty.
“God knows, youngster,” you’ll grin, shak-
ing your bead —“as many as tli’ stars.”
"And all sorts of them, too, I suppose?”
and with unceasing enthusiasm the Ryan
boys will jerk their seats closer to you re-
gardless of Rover exhibiting a nervous vigi-
lance lest they get on his toes or his tail.
“All sorts and all sizes,” you’ll continue;
“but on the day I’m thinking of no one had
any time to tell how many or see what they
were like!” The day you’ll be thinking of
was one filled with scrub pigs—rushing,
barking, savage hogs.
“It was a hunt got up by MacLennan to
help the cockies who had chanced taking
up selections from the Government on the
northern end of Wallumbilla, among the
wallabies,” you’ll explain. “There was no-
thing else there that I remember except sand
and scrubs of sandalwood. The Govern-
ment, though, was supplying the cockies
with wire-netting on time-payment to keep
the wallabies off their selections; so Mac-
Lennan offered them pigs for nothing to stock
their sties so long as they would come along
and take a hand in catching them.”
“That wasn’t too bad of him,” the Ryan
boys will enthuse. And young McCleverty
will add: “Cripes, it wasn’t!”
“And there was a city chap MacLennan
was looking after,” you’ll proceed—-“visiting
the station, he was, on a holiday. lie was
out of an office, and wrote books. He had
never before been among wild pigs, he said:
so Mac, who was always out for sport, even
with the station-hands, reckoned we’d have
a bit of fun. Of course, our fellows kept
taking it in turns to tell him of the dangers
thei-e were in pig-hunting, and warning him
to hold his reins and the pommel tight when
the galloping started, and not to get up into
the front nor fall too far into the rear, and
especially to keep wide of trees. I heard
him ask one of the station-hands if any of
the pigs had greasy tails, and out of the
corner of my eye I noticed a look of sim-
plicity on his face that you’d think could
only have been put there by the Almighty
Himself.”
As the others burst into mirth and Rover
yawns and whimpers you'll take a moment
or two off to join in the merriment.
“Anyway,” you’ll begin again, “everyone
had to meet at the yards of the old Wallum-
billa homestead pretty early on the morning
of the pig-hunt to get a fresh horse. It was
a glorious morning, too; but the big home-
stead house, with its verandahs and cedar
fittings—built half a century before and with
Lord knows how many rooms—was fast de-
caying because of neglect, and was empty of
everything but an eating table, an old chair
or two, and a couple of miserable bunks;
while the fruit- and flower-gardens that once
were all round it now grew only rank grass,
amongst which an old cow poked and foraged.
But as the pig-hunters met and dismounted,
it was the horses in the yards rather than
the old homestead that held their interest.
There must have been at least twenty head
of them—blacks, greys, bays and piebalds,
all clean-skinned, fresh and fit-looking, star-
ing and w-hinneying through the rails as the
huntsmen approached from different quar-
ters.”
“Holy, eh !” and the eyes of your audience
will gleam again in the dull light.
“Those who had decided to change on to
station mounts were off their own before you
could say ‘knife,’ hoisting their saddles on
to > the cap of the yard, and pulling their
bridles off. But the cockies, who had come
only a couple of miles, most of ’em, remained
(Continued on page 57.)


Ihuiking, Public Companies, etc,
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £5,000,000
Capital Paid Upland Reserves .. .. £3.369.963
Aggregate Assets*at 30th June, 1028.. £18,623,453
Director's:
Sir MARK SHELDON, K.8.E., Chairman.
FRANK N. YARWOOD; H. H. LYSAGHT, 0.8. E. ;
GEORGE J. SLY, LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE ; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER; C. M. C. SHANNON.
CHIEF INSPECTOR; W. G. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH : 62 Bishopsgnte, E.C.2.
The BANK is represented by I 86 Branches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, v/ith Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 616.210
Ordinary Shares 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,732,525
GRANTS DRAFTS
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament 1865,
and Registered under the Companies Act 1892,
of South Australia.)
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 985,000
£2,235,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,485,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed .think op
tryryrty
SCHUTE
BELL&C Ltd.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office! : 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN CEUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISLAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAL ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNEL CLUB
N.Z. GOLF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. POLO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of the World’s Leading
Advertising Agencies.
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d .
It deals v ith every subject of
interest to women.
Shipping, etc.
You promised pour self
a Holiday
“TV ind in the palms and the murmur
of surf on the reef; light brown faces
smiling kindly welcome; everywhere
blossoms and fragrance, light, color
and. soothing sounds, a feeling of
infinite remoteness,leisure and calm
X'
'Y’HE favorite Winter
Excursions to the
Pacific Islands offer oppor
tunities for an ocean holi-
day on palatial liners at
less than the cost of a
city vacation. Auckland
and Suva are visited en
route to sunny Hawaii
and Honolulu, its delight-
ful capital.
Special Honolulu Excursions
£75 First and £55 Second (return)
Makura leaves Sydney June 27
Aorangi „ „ July 25
Alternative Excursion to Tahiti
£55 First and £4O Second (return)
Tahiti leaves Sydney July 11
UNIGix STEAM SHIP CO.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne, Cl.
CANADIAN—AUSTRALASIAN
i
iliw
■
mm
m
2d
A
VISIT TO JAVA
(The Garden of the East)
Seven weeks' wonderful tour, via Brisbane, Queens-
land Ports, Thursday Island, Torres Strait & Darwin,
including 14 days’ escorted motor trip through Java.
Leaving Sydney on the 7th August, 1929, by the
magnificent steamer
“MARELLA,” 7500 TONS
Swimming Bath, Gymnasium, Deck Cabins, Verandah
Cafe, etc.
First-class inclusive round fare covering all
expenses Steamer trip, Hotels, Motor-cars,
Guides, Tips, etc.:—
From Melbourne £135 0 0
From Sydney £129 0 0
From Brisbane £l2B 10 0
BURNS, PHILP&> COMPANY L™
SYDNEY AND BRANCH OFFICES
BANK. OF NEW SOUTH
ESTABLISHED 1817
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
WALES
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund. .
Reserve Liability
tryryrty
£7,500,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1928, £88,982,585.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
554 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiii PaDua
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.'
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4 075 000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,553,025 0 0
Directors :
__ GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman) ;
Hon. Sir THOMAS HUGHES, M.L.C. ; Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.;
OWEN ESMOND FRIEND; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings*
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping for outports).
FOR BRISBANE, MAOKAY. TOWNSVILLE, CAIRNS
(Transhipping for outports).
YOU’LL WANT TO STAY LONGER
at
HAWAII
HAWAII
HAWAII
Less than two weeks away from Sydney, in
sunny Hawaii, you can be as lazy as you like.
A few days’ loafing and you’ll feel a new zest
for golf—new vim in the morning plunge on
a lovely beach where the water never gets
cold —new appetite at the numerous hotels or
restaurants made for your holiday entertain-
ment. Inter-Island Cruises. Visit Kilauea
Volcano. Come then, wile away happy holiday
hours at
HAWAII, HAWAII, HAWAII
The round steamer trip from Sydney costs but
£75 up, first-class; or £55 up, second-class —-
and first-class Hotel Expenses range from 12/-
to £3 per day with meals.
Fullest particulars from all Travel or Steam-
ship Offices or from this Office direct.
HAWAII TOURIST BUREAU,
Dept. 26, Box 102788, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
BRISBANE, viaBYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening ; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passeng°rs due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/6/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/16/.
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart ParkerL
j... Magnlfloent
, *‘ >K Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARK ER LI MITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
HAS ACCEPTED
Register
NEWS PICTORIAL
with the utmost enthusiasm.
ALL THE NEWS I
ALL THE PICTURES I
The State’s First Morning
Pictorial.
Largely increased Sales
already assured.
Arrange Contracts at
present rates.
HEAD OFFICE: REGISTER NEWS-
PAPERS, LIMITED, Grenfell Street,
Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative: Eric N. Birks,
Sydney. Tel. X 5187.
Melbourne Representative: G. N.
Bednall, “Argus” Building, Mel-
bourne. Tel. F45G2.


America
Big Ben Deluxe
s. 2 Z
10
ZMm
10
- )■
9
iQ
w«»t c ; 0 »
7
Of
> rocka(3a)
Socket Ben
%
Trustworthy Timekeepers
alarms know the respon-
▼ ▼ sibility of calling you just when you
say. They’re properly trained before they
leave the factory and it’s their business
to know.
This new style Big Ben, the America
alarm and the Pocket Ben watch are out-
standing examples of true Westclox quality.
There’s a whole family of Westclox and
you can trust every one of them —they’re
all dependable.
Prices range from 8/6 to 28/6.
Built by the makers of Big Ben and other Westclox
WESTERN CLOCK COMPANY, LA SALLE, ILL., U.S.A.
BROWN & DUREAU LTD., Distributors for Australia
MELBOURNE - SYDNEY - PERTH - BRISBANE
Tr
.
k.
mam
it with Hilliers/
Posted l/ie day tkeyare made
'.e famous
RecLßoxoP
GhocolsteS
HILLIERS
)OMSS CHOCOLATES
«f ./Iff. .162-166 Pitt Stileet
* sLhjIJuUVL s 'Td n e 'r'
PR.ICES
5/6. 64 10/. 12/6,
20/ And 30/
tryryrty
seated iti their saddles waiting for the party
to get ready. They had empty sacks strapped
across the pommels to bring back a sucker
or two as part of their share of the spoils."
"They reckoned they were going to be
in the harvest all right”—and Mickie Ryan
will cause another round of cheerful cackle.
“And all of them on their old draught
nags,” you’ll admit with a smile; “but those
station horses, as they stood there in the
yard, flash and well-bred, staring, snorting
and crushing each other—l can see them
now as plain as I could then, their eyes flash-
ing, their heads lifted, looking at you as if
they had never seen a white man before.”
“Cripes! and they all broken-in horses?”
in amazement from young McCleverty.
“Yes, broken,” you’ll admit, “and most of
’em eight- and ten- and twelve-year old ; but
there hadn’t been much work for them to do,
and they’d had long spells. I can see us
all hurrying and scrambling through the
rails of the yard now, with the bridles in our
hands, bustling one another for the pick of
the mob —or what we reckoned was the
pick.”
“And what sort did you get, Dick?” young
.McCleverty will interrupt. “The best one?”
"What sort!” you'll repeat significantly.
“The sort you don’t see much of now—a
strong, low-set, well-put-together little bay,
with a quick eye, a broad chest and clean
legs.”
“One that would carry you all day and
be hard to hold at the end of it, I bet,”
Mickle Ryan will add in proud endorsement.
“Two chaps from Mount Hutton —both
good judges of a horse, too —had fixed their
eyes on him, and I just beat them for him
by a couple of inches. Of course, when I
saw he was their pick, too, I felt as if I
had drawn first prize in Tattersall’s big
sweep.”
“And wasn’t he all right, Dick?” anxiously
from young McCleverty.
“I’ll tell you directly,” and you’ll start
grinning meaningly again.
“Was he broken-wunded?” from Mickie
Ryan. Mickie knew a lot about broken-
winded horses.
“No, he wasn’t,” you’ll admit, broadening
your grin; “but he darn nearly had mine
broken.”
. Your audience will chuckle in chorus and
kick about, and disturb Rover, who’ll wisely
draw in his feet and shift his tail.
, I led him out and was saddling him up
in a bit of a hurry, 1 * you’ll explain, “when
MacLennan himself, who was girthing up a
tall, brown stockhorse beside me, looked
across and said: ‘You’re not a bad judge
of horseflesh, Dick; but running wild pigs
in the pear isn’t cutting out on a cattle-
camp, yon know, and you better girth that
fellow, tight and put a crupper on him.”
"Cripes !’—from the Ryan boys—“you
struck a’ outlaw?”
“Not exactly,” and you’ll adjust yourself
in your chair, at the same time resting one
of your feet on Rover’s soft ribs. “He was
always quiet enough after he’d settled down ;
hut before he’d settle down with you he was
the damnedest buckjumper the station ever
knewC’
“Oh, ’Ell!” and all three will regard you
wuth expressions of sympathy.
“And he’d get to it the moment anyone
was on him. Before I’d hardly hit the saddle
he wms at it—round and round, and squeal-
ing, and nearly getting me in the first couple.
Gad, the girths strained and creaked ! Ilis
head went clean out of sight—must have
gone somewdiere between his hind legs. Be-
tween the fright I got and the squeals he
gave and the yells of the other fellows to
hang on, I didn’t know what was happening,
or where the diggings I was till he bumped
like a blooming flywheel into the cockies’
horses, scattering them like forty mad armed
policemen, and straightening me right up in
the saddle and giving me a fresh grip of
the reins and placing my feet back in the
stirrups again. Then I knew my luck was
in and I was right and”
You’ll pause to smile at the others for
gasping and looking so excited; and wdiile
you are pausing you’ll put your other foot
on Rover’s ribs and he’ll pretend not to
notice any difference.
“And from out amongst them he came with
his head in sight, but between his knees, and
down the slope from the yard lie went buck-
ing as if he had a flank-rope on and a lot
of ginger under his tail. I got to him then;
but he was crumpling and bucking himself
into such a ball that I was rapping my
heels together behind his hindquarters. When
he got on to the open flat he gave the buck-
ing best, and started stretching himself to
a gallop. It w r as a question then of pulling
him or letting him go for his blasted life till
he pumped himself out.”
“I’d have let the cow go—ghost, I would !”
Mickie will say vindictively.
That s what I had to do, as it: happened,”
you’ll renew; “for just when I had given
a couple of pulls at the reins and was
snatching for breath, who should come
rattling up beside me but the novice from
the city, and on one of the swanky piebalds!
Right up, brushing the little bay’s flanks, he
came; then right beside me, his stirrup-
irons clashing mine.”
“What! The city cove who knew no-
thing?” young McCleverty will echo.
“I could only just flash a glance at him,
for a cove has to watch a horse that’s been
bucking with him, not knowing when he
might suddenly dowm with his head again
and into it. But in that one glance I saw
it was him. And he started talking to me
as if we were both in here, or sitting on the
cap of the yard, instead of reefing and swing-
ing. through trees that might knock your
brains out. ‘You stuck to him well, but he
nearly had you,’ I remember him shouting:
then, lifting his voice louder, ‘Let him go!
Take it out of him! A couple of furlongs
—come on!’ He let the piebald out, laugh-
ing at me over his shoulder. And I let go
the little bay. Through the wild lime-trees
and sandalwoods we went hammer and
tongs and close together. And just behind
us all the others were coming like blazes.”
‘‘He w'as no blooming novice, Dick!” from
•Tohnny Ryan.
“Novice!” you’ll repeat, grinning. “A
couple of looks across at him, and I saw he
had the best hands I’d ever seen on a pair of
bridle-reins in thick timber.”
■‘And he came out of an office, you say?”
with a puzzled expression from Mickie Ryan.
‘‘There was nothing of the office about him
now,” you’ll smile. "He wasn’t only sitting
the piebald as light as a blade of grass, he
was riding with his head half-turned and
screwed in line with the horse’s ears; both
his hands pressed down on the shoulder-
blades ; the crown of his head set dead
against the wind, to keep his hat on; his
face towards me, and all the time looking
out of the tail of one eye to watch where
he was going. And we were going, too!
Gad, the sandalwood crashed !”
“Holy! He didn’t learn to ride like that
in a’ office!” the others will acclaim in
admiration.
“He was part of his horse if ever a rider
was, wherever he learned it, that’s all I can
say,” you’ll answer. “And while the hang
ing boughs and limbs—you know what then
mean—were smacking and bcdting me hard
enough, he was gliding and swinging clear
of the whole darn lot; and getting ahead
of me, too ! When he was a length or so
in the lead he rose in the saddle and took
hold, of the piebald’s head. Then I took a
pull, too, and as we were both steadying down,
chuckling breathlessly to each other, he
began dropping me friendly hints on riding
in thick timber.”
“What!” the Ryan boys will break in.
“Giving you hints, Dick —a city cove?”
“Yes,” you’ll smile. “But remembering
that I had only about an hour before been
advising him what snags to look out for, and
how to guide his horse when the galloping
started —well, it made me feel a bit of a
fool, though he didn’t seem to remember any-
thing about it.”
A burst of merriment at your expense will
come from the others.
“A lot of fellows have only themselves to
blame,” he said when we had reined up,
leaning over and patting the piebald on the
neck, “for getting hurt in the timber. They
never seem to learn that a horse has more
brains than his rider, is a better judge of
space and has quicker and surer eyesight.
All you have to do when you have the pace
up and the timber is getting thicker and
thicker is to get your eye into sympathy
with his, leave his mouth alone, swing with
him and guide him if you want to with your
knees and your body.”
“And what did you reckon about it, Dick?”
young McCleverty will ask curiously.
“I knew darn well he was right, for I
had seen, him demonstrate it,” you’ll answer.
“But before I could say anything about it
to him up came the whole army of pig-
liunters again, MacLennan liimse'lf in the
lead of them, and the selectors with their
heavy draught mounts and empty sacks
bringing up the rear. Wallumbilla Creek
was only a few hundred yards ahead of us
then, and a bend in one of its long, narrow,
deep waterholes, with ti-trees overhanging
the banks, had just come into view. They
were hailing us with shouts of laughter,
when suddenly their voices changed to cries
of ‘Book out! Look at th’ blanky pigs leav-
ing the water!’ And sure enough there were
pigs all colors by the score scrambling over
the opposite bank— and in the Devil’s own
hurry, too!”
“ ‘After them for your lives, chaps!’
shouted MacLennan, heeling and whipping
his tall, Jbrown camp-horse. And by the
Lord Harry we went for our lives, too, and
for the lives of those pigs. Every cove there
had his horse under the whip from the first
bound. We were on to the creek, striking
it at an angle, MacLennan still in the lead,
the rest of us covering space a chain wide
to the right and left of him. We saw the
water for a stretch of a hundred yards or
so glistening, splashing and churning as
fresh-startled pigs made out of it to follow
those that had already climbed the banks
and were scurrying to the prickly-pear scrub
over on Pickenjinnie flats. The field of us
raced at the creek; then with wild shouts
over the edge in twos, threes and fours to-
gether! Plunk! Flop! Grunt! Under; up
to the surface again ; a short swim; then up
and over the opposite bank, men and horses
wet and slimy, blindly scrambling, the whips
going, bumping broadside into one another,
clutching for fresh grips of the slippery reins
eyes straining for sight of the darn pigs !”
“Holy!” the Ryan boys will gasp, while
young McCleverty will be too excited to
speak.
“When I got over you never saw such a
sight. Pigs! There was a mob of them
two hundred yards long—black, sandy, pie-
bald, all sizes, all ages and sexes, going like
hares for the thickest pear not more than a
quarter of a mile off.”
“Christopher!” from the Ryans.
I wasn t first over. I don’t know who
was, really. But when I looked across
to the right of me there was the city chap,
the piebald all slush and looking like a black
horse, right out on liis own, and about a
dozen pigs not more than a couplei of chains
ahead of him.”
“He was no city bloke!” Mickie Ryan
will reaffirm.
N°> you’ll agree—“what he didn’t know
about the Bush wasn’t fit to mention.”
“Then the fun really started. That mob
of blooming, pigs, with the lot of us hot on
them, spurring and flogging, seemed to be
fairly flying over the short distance. It soon
was a neck and neck go with some of us.
though most of the hogs were holding their
lead. They all managed to reach the scat-
tered pear—clumps of the cursed stuff that
stand out from the thick scrub like sentinels,
lhose scared hogs scooted in strings'and dis-
appeared round clumps, and then hit out in
other directions! Ghost, if they didn’t turn
the hunt into an obstacle-race on us!”
Loud excited mirth from the Ryan’s.
"Of course we couldn't pull and slew our
horses round and in and out of those darn
clumps and keep the pace up, too! We had
to make hurdles of them ; and taking them
in our stride turned the hunt into a grand
steeplechase. Wars! It was overt over t
over! keeping your eye on the pig you had
marked for your prize all the time And
my stars! those hurdles kept getting closer
and closer, and higher and broader, till the
little bay. game 1 as a tiger, blundered in try-
ing to take three in quick succession and
landing m the middle of the last clump!
(Continued on next pane.)


*'€very picture
"Zells a Story ‘ 1
| 111 | mßi _i» j«u.
i || $
i.
ri' - •
\W ) Tifi
ffiVi
=®v-
K
>
-
Kidney Troubles Age You!
Use Doan’s Pills to Prevent Them
MIDDLE AGE and after, do not be sur-
prised if you experience backache, dizziness
and bladder irregularities. Regard them as early
signs of kidney strain—as calls for help that is
long overdue. Unceasingly, all your life, your
kidneys have been filtering the poisons from your
blood—protecting you from rheumatism, dropsy,
stone formation, sciatica, gravel and lumbago.
Avoid these threatened developments, NOW, by
strengthening the kidneys with Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills.
SYDNEY TESTIMONY.
Mrs. A. Foreman, 45 Rose Street, Darlington, Sydney,
says: “For years my husband followed the occupation of a
miner. Having to work in damp places and in cramped
positions seriously affected his kidneys, and he suffered a lot
from backache and other ailments in consequence. His back
was often very painful, and it was as much as he could do
to get about. The pain centred just above the kidneys,
and he was conscious of it even at the best of times.
To make matters worse the kidney secretions were dis-
ordered, being thick and cloudy and difficult to pass. One
day Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were brought under his
notice as a reliable kidney medicine, so he bought a bottle
to try them. They acted splendidly, a course of the Pills
making a perfect cure. He is very grateful to Doan’s Pills
for the good they did him and always keeps a bottle by
him in case he should have a return of his old complaint ”
Four years later Mrs. Foreman says: “My husband is still
well, and has only Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills to thank
for his freedom from kidney trouble.”
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS are sold by all chemists and stores.
Foster McClellan Co., Proprietors, 15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
D OANS
Backache Kidney Pills.
FOR PILES, ECZEMA AND ANY
IRRITATION OF THE SKIN USE
DOAN’S OINTMENT.
SYDNEY PEOPLE TESTIFY,
A WOMAN’S WORD.
Mrs. M. Brown, Toronto, Lyons Road, Five
Dock, Sydney, says: “Three years ago I used
Doan’s Ointment for a bad attack of Piles,
and I am pleased to tell you it completely
cured me. Previous to trying this ointment
I used all kinds of remedies, but they gave
me little or no relief. I was suffering terribly
when I first applied Doan’s Ointment, and
had little hope of it doing me any good,
but its soothing and healing effects were
noticeable almost at once, and by the time
I had used o'fie pot I was cured, the Piles
having completely disappeared. I am a
great believer in Doan’s Ointment, and con-
sider it the best Pile remedy known. It
cured me after other remedies had failed.”
Eight years later, Mrs. Brown says: “I
have had no return of my old complaint since
Doan’s Ointment cured me about eleven years
ago.”
A MAN’S WORD.
Mr. \V. Solomon, Wentworth Street, Parra-
matta, Sydney, says: “About twenty years ago
I had a very severe attack of itching and
bleeding piles, and underwent an operation.
I was light for about eight years and then
the complaint returned. The agony was
terrible. Not wanting to undergo another
operation, I started using pile remedies. The
number I used would astonish you, but they
gave me no benefit whatever. I read of
Doan's Ointment curing others and decided
to give it a trial. After a few applications
I obtained relief and one pot cured me. I
always keep Doan’s Ointment in the house,
and shall never be without it, for I know
what a thoroughly good remedy it is.”
Fourteen years later, Mr. Solomon says:
“I have still the same good opinion of
Doan’s Ointment. It cured me of piles many
years ago, and I never suffer with this
complaint now.”
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES.
“I am glad that James is a boy,” she made
surprising answer.
They smiled at one another, kindly but
without understanding. William thought
Adela beautiful. It was as if he were at
the bottom of a well and she leaning down
to him from the top. To-night she was
gay and tender. William was persistently
haunted by a memory vague and light,
the scent of a musk carnation smelt across
years, but he was too tired to pursue the
memory. He was content with the well-
being of his home.
* * *
William’s second son, Lionel, was born
in the late spring of 1847, to a world exter-
nally the same as that which had greeted
his brother but very different in spirit.
There was little rejoicing at his birth.
Adela was so ill and the child himself was
a disappointment, being tiny and ugly and
distressed. But he was not the heir, and
neither William nor the Quartermaster
thought of him save in connection with
Adela. '
Eighteen-forty-seven was not a fortunate
year in which to be born. The brief flare
of prosperity that had followed the colony’s
recovery from the 1842 crisis had petered
out. There had been no other actual
crisis, but a deep lethargy had settled upon
the whole colony. Population was decreas-
ing, money was tight, enterprise languished.
Progress was at a standstill. The Quarter-
master no longer talked of the great boom.
A crisis he could have coped with, but
the long-drawn-out depression sapped his
vitality. The store was not in difficulties,
nor likely to be; a fair volume of traffic
kept up and everyone agreed that Hyde
and Son would be among the last to suffer,
but there was no progress. The wharf that
he had begun so zestfully the year James
was born was still unfinished. The con-
tractor had gone insolvent when it was
half done and it had seemed unwise
even to the Quartermaster to renew the
project. The piles were a constant reminder
of failure. William had seen his father stop
and shake his fist at them.
The quiet times aged him. He tried to
find a new interest in the political turmoil
of the day. There was plenty of excite-
ment there. The transportation system
had been revived in a new form, but one
no less obnoxious to the inhabitants.
Agitation meetings were rife and the
Quartermaster had dutifully raised his voice
the loudest of them in the protests that
poured back to England. Early in 1848
rhe whole eommunity rose in arms against
Lord Grey’s proposal to introduce a new
Constitution for New South Wales, by which
a system of double election would take
from the free electors their right to vote
directly for their legislators. The Quarter-
master was vehement in all his beliefs and
joined wholeheartedly in the universal con-
demnation which this proposal excited in
every class. But politics could never absorb
him as business did, although he admired
immensely the men who succeeded in it.
It, could supply no permanent interest.
Fanny, looking up from her sewing in
the evening, would often see her father
sitting with his great fists doubled up on his
knees, his face red, staring into space. She
saw helplessness in his whole pose, and
for the first time found him rather pathetic.
“He’s feeling it now,” she would think. “Poor
papa—to have so much energy and so little
to do with it! He should thank Heaven
he was not born a woman.” But she never
betrayed by word or look that she saw
any difference in him.
Lionel did nothing to resolve this situ-
ation. Adela need not have feared that
they would take him from her, too. But
she had feared. She had prayed a thou-
sand times, passionately, with clenched fists,
that this child might be a girl and hers,
all hers. For months her mind had centred
upon possession of her child. She had
prayed to a god of bargains who is older
than the Christian God, and to whom we
all have recourse sooner or later: “Only
give me this baby for my own and they
can have James. I won’t lift a finger to
take James back, but this one must be
mine.”
Lionel was hers and the pact stood. He
was not the heir. He was so small and
delicate, and a son born in those darkened
years was a liability rather than an asset.
Adela’s convalescence was slow. But
despite her fears she was happy—her very
anxiety was a sort of luxury. There was
hardly a moment of the day when she did
not feel this child drawing at her for his life.
The very way his fingers closed round hers
was different from any contact she had
had with James. The touch of the elder
child had been to her as insentient as
the twining of a grape vine. Lionel’s feeble
hand entreated her. She felt that she
really was a mother now.
CHAPTER XI.
The Stream of Life.
When Adela came downstairs she noticed
a number of small changes. Fanny was
more firmly established in authority than
ever, and James had formed the habit of
going to her for everything. The house
downstairs turned to Fanny much as James
did. The rooms felt like another woman’s;
Adela noted every little change in them.
William had mentioned from time to
time that Walter Moore had been there,
but, she had never connected his visits with
Fanny. She had not thought of Romance
and Fanny; but why not? She could find
no trace of any new softness in Fanny’s face,
and Fanny had never mentioned Mr. Moore
to Adela. But perhaps that was a good
sign. He had visited the house from time
to time ever since her marriage—a hand-
some, florid man about forty, with a pre-
cise and weighty manner and the glossiest
whiskers in Sydney. It was said that many
years ago he had married a beautiful con-
sumptive girl and had brought her to Aus-
tralia in the hope of saving her life. The
disease had gone too far and she had died
in little more than a year. The young
husband, distracted by grief, had tried to
shoot himself. His coachman, arriving just
in time, had struck up his arm so that
the bullet had passed through his shoulder
instead of his heart. After his wife’s death
his brother and his brother’s family had
joined him, and they had established the
largest foundry in the colony and had
thriven exceedingly. Now he was paying
his court to Fanny, and Fanny, queer girl,
had said not a word about it!
From her room that evening Adela heard
the mild commotion of Mr. Moore’s arrival
precisely at 8.30. She heard his rich, satis-
fied laugh in the hall, the Quartermaster’s
voice raised in welcome, and then the cosy
shutting of the parlor door. Adela regis-
tered a vow that next Thursday she would
stay downstairs to see for herself.
Fanny was fully aware of Mr. Moore’s
intentions. With a humorous comprehen-
sion, she watched him take the long way
round of a super-decorous courtship. When
the winding path should bring him to a
declaration, she supposed she would accept
him. It was the intelligent thing to do. It
satisfied her pride to feel that she was choos-
ing him as coolly and as passionlessly as he
was choosing her. She supposed that he
admired her, that he considered her a
suitable wife, being a sensible, competent
woman, with good connections, a neat dowry
and expectations later on. There was no
question of love. He paid her her full
meed as a gentlewoman, he courted her
slowly and carefully. The unswerving regu-
larity of his visits, the modulations of his
tones, the elaboration of his compliments
were almost as good as banns. Fanny would
certainly marry him, but she kept the whole
family in suspense.
(The next instalment takes us on to the
great and startling changes that came with
the discovery of gold.)
objected to the thorns and prickles, and
started bucking his _ way out, and”
And w-iohat, Dick? young McCleverty
will stutter eagerly.
“\Vhile I wasn’t thinking of him, but
watching the darn pig I was after, he dropped
me right in the middle of the blanky prickly-
P ear l” , .
“Hell!” the others will roar ecstatically,
for they will know all about pear; and tak-
ing advantage of the noise, Rover wall liber-
ate himself from the weight of your feet, and
withdraw to another corner of the room.
“You must have been in a mess, Dick?”
Mickie will suggest fceliugly.
“I couldn’t see out of my eyes for darn
prickles,” you’ll admit with a shudder, “and
had them all over my body for weeks, though
I stripped off in the creek and was rubbed
with sand by the other fellows for about an
hour!"
"And how many pigs did they get alto-
gether?” the Ryans will inquire.
“None of them got a daru one,” you’ll
answer grimly—“except the city chap." He
stuck to a black sow, in and out, and over
everything, till he ran her to a standstill,
And when she bailed up she had a snout on
her as l°ng as the nose of a smith’s bellows,
and she barked at him and everyone else
like a retriever dog.”
“Gripes!” the Ryans will conclude disap-
pointedly—“that wasn’t much to get out of
a hunt.”
“We mightn’t get any more than that if
we go after this lot on King's Creek!”
young McCleverty, his excitement abating,
will suggest.
“Except that, instead of a sow that will
bark, you might get a big old boar with
tusks a foot long who’ll rip your horse up.
or take your leg off,” you'll conclude.
May Violets.
Would you have sweetness?
Then haste to my garden closes.
The lupins are fled;
And the last of the ivory roses
Droops its tired head.
Do you crave sweetness?
Then pass by the bronze-gold glory
Of chrysanthemums !
For breathing some elfin story
Softly there comes
The scent of the violets of May-time—
The wee winsome loves of the day-time;
And small blue delight
Of the night!
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.
Marriage Morn.
Strange if the dead men could but hear
The wedding bells that ring.
If they could see the bridegroom come
Like an enchanted thing;
And her, the bride, in her array
So fondly warm and fair.
And all the people who with them
Are in the sunshine there.
If they could hear and see, they would
Feel in thehnselves a thrill,
And hug their pillows in the clay
That are so cold and still —
Pillows no bridegroom’s head would press,
No bride’s warm cheek lie on,
Though for them they are good enough
Now that love’s dream is gone.
N.S.W.
R. CRAWFORD.


tryryrty
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
.
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in atock—-wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HULAltliS «K CUtKCH, Hrisbane. rnurnith iMPC'r hi e uf 11 re
N.Z. Office—l)3-107 Featherston Street, Wellington l/Ultl/UIvD Wfcdl, N, o. VfALti
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House,” 485 llonrke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. EhDER, «MITH & CO., LTI)„ Adelaide. S.A.
For Any Advertising Campaign in
Queensland Let Your First Choice Be
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
and its companion journal, “The Sunday Mail,”
Queensland’s big weekly newspaper and magazine.
“The Daily Mail” is the big morning paper with a
greater nett circulation than any other daily in the
State.
“The Sunday Mail” covers in one day the entire
metropolitan circulation of Brisbane’s four dailies.
For advertising rates and other particulars, please apply to
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD,,
288-294 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE, Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IF YOU DESIRE
TO REACH THE
TASMANIAN
BUYING PUBLIC
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
should carry your message.
Everywhere—ali over the State, in Town and
Country—this Popular Weekly goes regularly
into the homes of the people, and each
issue is eagerly read by men, womdn and
children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest, with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays. Price 6d,
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYLNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 223
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: ‘Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street.
CiK Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all interstate agencies of
Messrs. Cordon & Catch, price l|ct.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
WILSON, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone, MA3161.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Advertise in
“ Queenslander
QUEENSLAND’S BRIGHT NATIONAL WEEKLY
PICTORIAL.
The “Queenslander” covers the whole of Queensland and
Northern Rivers of New South Wales. All Agricultural,
Farming, Grazing, Fruit and Sugar-growing areas are reached,
as well as Mining and Oilfields and Timber Districts.
HAS A SOLID “BIGHT - INTO - THE - HOME” CIRCULATION.
Published by The Brisbane Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
Courier Buidings, Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Rep.: Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 85007.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
i
4
LJL
&
#
A
V
IP
i
*» t «_ L. 3® vT
. •« V.T.-K Vi
iilj
'eZWmL
mmmmmsmmM
A WOMAN'S sensibilities
are finer, her enthusiasms
deeper than man’s. She
overworks, overplays, “ lives
on her nerves ” and is nearly
always constipated and suffers.
Women need Beecham’s Pills.
They bring colour to the
cheeks, sparkle to the eyes,
and quiet to the nerves by
stimulating healthy digestion
and regular complete elim-
ination.
Beecham’s Pills enable
woman to be at her best.
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY FREE PATTERN
TUESDAY—Price 3d O EVERY WEEK
“The Examiner”
Tasmania's Oldest Daily Newspaper. Established 1842.
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has the
Best Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest
Overseas, Interstate and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
Tasmania’s oesc
Illustrated Weekly is the
Weekly Courier”
Published
Every
Wednesday
*
4^
0°
o*
,6V
s e
C
s®
■:'>?
, -;'>>
* _ .•o0- t eil® l
0*
•‘, • ’ >
.t'Vs.® 0 ”
•c^’”


Jl:
£
t.
r \
si
X
*s
' Vv v
1
\
I
&
Plymouth Tourer,
PLYMOUTH
Now, more than ever,
Plymouth for economy
of operation
Buyers in the lowest priced field
are turning more and more to
Plymouth, for Plymouth gives
an entirely new meaning to
economy with full-size, comfort,
power and safety.
Plymouth offers not merely
economy of gas and oil con-
sumption, greater tyre mileage
and low repair expense, but in
addition:
Economy with Modern
Engineering
Chrysler engineers designed
the Plymouth’s
sion engine embodying such
important improvements as
aluminum alloy pistons, large
main bearings, positive pressure
feed lubrication and rubber
engine mountings;
Economy with Safety
Plymouth's hydraulic four"
wheel brakes give instant, posi-
tive stopping in any weather—
another feature possessed by
no other car near this once;
Economy with Power
Plymouth's powerful engine
assures typical Chrysler pick-up
plus ability to maintain better-
than-average speed with quiet
smoothness;
Economy with Full-Size
Plymouth is the first and only
full-sized car in this price class,
giving full-proportioned seating
room, head room and leg room
for five men or women;
Economy with Comfort
Plymouth’s interiors are far
more spacious with wider,
deeper seats while the balanced
chassis, new type springs and
larger tyres assure exceptional
riding qualifies.
Here is a car that goes far beyond
all previous ideas of economi-
cal transportation in the lowest-
priced field—a car that truly
reveals a netv and greater value.
Come, see and drive the Ply*
mouth. We are confident you
will find it a very enjoyable and
a most enlightening experience.
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales ... Larke, Neave & Carter, Ltd., Sydney
Victoria Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland .......... Ward Motors, Limited, Brisbane
West Australia ...... Wm. Attwood Motors, Ltd., Perth
South Australia .... O. T. Rodda Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
Tasmania .......... . Metro Motors Piy., Ltd., Hobart
New Zealand Todd Motor Company, Wellington
New Guinea W . R • Carpenter & Co., Ltd., Rabaul
