

YOU^*
'NOCORKI^
TO TROUtf^^
l
*\
k
9
It
V)
f
(TrJ^
<sS
s
P
f
\
X N
O
Us
M C/
3
i^ EFRE SHE# <OUD f -
■*» mc ’SSS
"/^OMPANY! Stand at ease!! This is an
exercise in attaining good spirits! The
opening movements are the simplest that
have ever been devised. You will move by
numbers on the word of command taking
the time from me!”
"'Shun!’ On the word of command 'One!*
take the bottle in your left hand, grasp the
seal with the right, and draw up the tape,
cutting the capsule in halves.”
'"Two!’ You will remove the capsule.”
'"Three!’ Take the milled edge of the cork
stopper between finger and thumb and, with
a slight turn of the wrist, open the bottle.”
"You have then reached astage where further
orders are unnecessary. You may display that
traditional initiative of the Australian in deal-
ing with the very excellent spirit of which
you have now become possessed. There’ll
be no Refusiliers in 'Johnnie Walker’s Own.’
Squad! One!—Two!—Three!—Stand Easy!!”
JOHNNIE
WALKER
WHISKY
Bom 1820 -
Still going Strong
pull up thtjfay
REMOTE
\
fj'eila iXi
DRAW the
'with firuu
thumb
r
r,
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, LONDON
The Bulletin
CSYJIAXs Cs £shXy ~ . . j/&YUbO
Vol. 50.—N0. 2567.
Wednesday, April 24. 1929.
Price 6d.\
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post ae a Newspaper.


ILYSAGHT
O
0
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
V
m
L*
mrl
VN,
Love Me and the Luck is Yours!
As I was saying to Tabitha: Men are fools; why should they work for
a living when they can pick up wealth like this? Listen! All you have to
do is to look at me, love me, and the shilling’s mine, so to speak, but
the fortune’s your* —£.lo,ooo of it. Nobody ever failed who trusted
THE NEW SOUTH WALES FIRE BRIGADES’ ART UNKjN
FOR HOSPITALS, AMBULANCES, AND CHARITY.
(Sanctioned by the Attorney-General)
©
N
I AM PETER
THE LUCK 6RINGER.
TAIS IS YOUR LUCKY D&j
SEND ALONG AT ONCE
£lO,OOO in Prizes. First Prize a solid Gold Helmet, valued
at £3000; Second Prize a Golden Casket of Diamonds valued
at £1000; Third Prize a Diamond Tiara valued at £7SU.
TICKETS: ONE SHILLING.
envelope
Six Tickets. 5/: Twelve Tickets, 10/; Twenty-five Tickets, £l.
A Ticket a Day Keeps Misfortune Away!
Send at once. State whether Mr., Mrs., or Miss. Enclose stamped
for result slip. Art Union Drawn on June 1
Address: J. J. NEVILLE, Hon. Secretary.
Fire Brigades Headquarters, 213 Castlereagh-strect, Sydney, N.S.W.
T *ifp thf ADVICE OF A WISE OL.D TOMCAT AND 808 IN.
I’LL BE HAPPY WHEN THE BOBS COME BOBBING ALON_G!—
Learn
Journal
at HOME
Send this S.B. Advt. for this Book:
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.” It is Free!
STOTT’S, 100 Russell St., Melbourne.
\Y/RITE FOR THE LIBRARY CATA
W LOGUE AND LISTS on all subjects,
which will be forwarded on application, poit
to
DYMOCIv’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who wis
quote you price for the original.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
Contain no cocaine or other poisonous drug. Suited for old and young. For Congi*
Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis, Influenza.
w
NO
OH
ns®
m
VVhat the Medical World says:—The Lt~ VCE ’
“Proved to be as effective bactericidal!.'' a* ■’
creosote.” THIS REPORT FROM THE ‘w
CET” LABORATORY IS UNDOUBTED EVTDENCi
of the VALUE OF EUMENTHOL JUJUBES a* *-
ANTISEPTIC.
I/O a Tin.
Sold at Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers: •
Post Free from the Sole Manufacturers—
Hudson's Eumenthol Co. Ltd., Sydney,
aa receipt ot 1/6 in stamps of any Pwfto*
The Red Page
Wild and Tame Australia
In his two-volume Wanderings in 11 ild
Australia (Macmillan; Dymocks), Professor
Baldwin Spencer spurns the tiresome prac-
tice of scientists with the picture-show
mind of deliberately making the work
“popular.” He has wandered up and down
and across and about all the less known
parts of Australia, particularly in the central
and the central north portions, has observed
as a scientist and as a human being, and
has recorded his observations as made. The
technical in his work is technical; but
he is more a man than a scientist, and
there is more of the warmth of humanity in
his book than anything else.
It is an amazingly Comprehensive book.
Professor Spencer paints an enormous tract
of country in a general way that gives the
reader the impression of having stood on a
great hill and seen it all whole and at once.
Then he makes you come down and
examine the minutest things that walk or
hop or crawl oh the surface, or delve beneath
it, or live in the water. You have to look
into every stick of vegetation until you
know the size of its veins; have to observe
the rocks and the soil, the climate, the
habitations and work of white settlers, and,
above all, the'appearance, customs, history,
habits, weapons, ceremonies—everything
observable in his chocolate friends the
aboriginals. You are travelling by camel—
you must learn every detail of camel travel.
So, too, if you are on foot, on horseback
or in a buckboard. You have to sleep out
and be chewed by mosquitoes or wake to
find the water-bottle frozen. Professor
Spencer is relentless with the armchair
traveller; you cannot help moving and en-
joying or suffering with him. His descrip-
tion of one long monotonous aboriginal
ceremony which lasted over several days
leaves you feeling vicariously as exhausted
as the actual observing must have left him.
His two bulky books are crowded with
photographs—a page of them to every few
pages of reading—which are a wonderful
record in themselves. They include the
portrayal of ceremonies which in the last
40 years have died out and will never be
seen again, and they include pictures of
weapons, charms and the like that are be-
coming rarer every year. There should be
no need to give examples of Professor
Spencer’s championship of the “uncivilised”
abo. He is one of the great knights of
that field, and he always goes into the
battle with chapter and verse in his hand.
Anyone with special interests will find the
work thoroughly erudite; the general reader
will find it a vigorous bo'bk of travel and
adventure in a land which has a romance
of its own for all its harshness. An abridg-
ment. for school use wmuld add delight to
lessons in Australian geography.
The “Tame Australia” at the head of this
article is used loosely of the setting of an-
other, though a very different, book, The
Singing Gold, by Dorothy Cottrell (Hodder
and Stoughton; Dymocks). The story is
familiar in name to most of Australia. It
was reported a year or two ago that the
Ladies’ Home Journal had paid Mrs. Cot-
treil £lOOO for the serial rights. It is a
novel told from the feminine point of view
in the first person singular. It is beautiful
as a story; “happy” in spite of considerable
tragedy. It is more beautiful in the story’s
embellishments—a charming prose style,
an exquisite feeling for nature, an astonish-
ing abundance of humor; “astonishing” be-
cause the expression of humor is not a
gift that has been recklessly show r ered upon
women writers. Two things stand out
bodily from the book—that humor, and the
writer’s reactions to nature.
The title is credited to one Hally, “a
writer on The Bulletin,” who, “before he
took to the bottle,” used to call the North
Queensland downs “the Downs of the Sing-
ing Gold.” The story is set chiefly in
Queensland, where Joan, the teller, is reared.
It is a simple story of a love for Jerry,
who was older and went to the war and
wrote back prosaic and cheerful letters; of
the marriage of the girl, partly on account
of those letters, to Clippings, a bank clerk,
also heading for the war. Later Clippings
and Joan go to a rather too fanciful island
off the Queensland coast. It looks an impos-
sible beginning, yet they, aided by Dorothy
Cottrell, make the result idyllic. But they
are ; forced out of it at last. They go to
Sydney, where there is a term of unemploy-
ment, of the pawning of things, and then
more idyllic existence in the worst flat
in the place in Darlinghurst. Here the story
takes a twist, and no more ought to be
revealed of it here.
The humor is an undertone to almost
every page. Occasionally you laugh out-
right, as when Clippings, having got Joan
before the parson for a very hurried wed-
ding, hauls out of his pocket six wedding
ring 3, because he did not know the size
of her finger. It is a charming interlude
altogether, that wedding. There is breath
in the book, for the main narrative thread
indicated is merely a thread; about it
move alive Joan’s family and other rela-
tions and characters, not the least of these
last the author herself. Here she is:—
And all day long a million larks fluttered singing
into the sunshine, and the little cruel hawks of
the plains followed the travelling sheep and preyed
upon the living sparks of music. Singing they rose,
although they knew that the hawks were waiting
for them, singing even as they fled from the talons
of death. For on the pitiless, sun-bleached splendor
of the downs there was no shelter for them,
so they rose singing by the hundred, and bv tne
hundred were butchered. And once, as the sneep
drifted slowly across the gold immensity of down,
under the gold immensity of evening, and even tne
woolly backs were gold, and the rising larks and
the hovering hawks so many sparks of fire, mj
father heard a little rush of song, and something
soft and quivering darted into his open shirt and
nestled against his great chest, while the thwarted
hawk circled above his head, calling shrilly.
“The Singing Gold” is made of passages
such as that.
Lost—a Soul
Lately the president of the N.S.W.
Musical Association (Faunce Allman); him-
self a good athlete in his younger days and
a former grade cricketer, warned a Sydne>
audience that Australia was treading on
very dangerous ground. There is, he said,
a glorification of the physical in this coun-
try to an almost blasphemous extent.
In the same 24 hours almost, a Sydney
’Varsity professor said precisely the same
thing to another distinguished audience,
adding the after-thought that most people
agree that a nation must have a soul.
These statements, coming at a time when
every thinking man was sick to death of
reading the slightest remark of “heroes’ of
Test cricket, are not to be dismissed lightly.
Would it be regarded as an impertinence
for me to ask seriously, has Australia a
soul, and where am I to find it ?
All my life I have had active enthu-
siasm for sport. It is the basis of health.
Apart from its enjoyment per sc, it is a
definite means to an end. This present
time, however, it seems not only to lie
the basis of our national life, but a good
proportion of the superstructure as well.
The whole nation went wild with anxiety
while 22 men hit a bat and ball about for
eight days in Melbourne. Armies of special
correspondents attended the wearisome busi-
ness and wrote reams of school-boy thoughts
with all the seriousness of a Peace Confer-
ence delegate. More recently the Sydney
Cup and other “battles" (spare the word!)
of the turf have filled the mind—and pre-
sumably, the “soul"—of half Australia to
the not-improbable exclusion of everything
else.
The word “battle" applied to this sort of
business reminds one that the sporting
world is filled with this sort of verbiage.
“Heroes” defy all for Australia; magnificent
“fighting spirit” is shown by every one who
makes over 50. One gentleman who was
notorious in his aversion to fight for Aus-
tralia a few years ago is hailed with adora-
tion by the press because he took part in this
business. Another person who showed a
curious aversion to visit France when the
opportunity offered is paid large sums to
help his sport-mad country “repel the
enemy.” These are hard words, but public
memory is such a short and fickle thing
that a whip is sometimes the only method
of arousing it. And Australia showed very
soon after the war that so long as “her
national prestige” was at stake, she was per-
fectly willing (granted that the occasions
were few) to let, shirkers and conscientious
objectors help in the “battle.” One cannot
help agreeing with Faunce Allman that
“sport and the physical side of life is be-
ing glorified to a blasphemous extent.”
As I write, there is a collection being
taken up for three young lads who played
a “’noble" part in the late “battle.” “God
forgive me, I cheered wid the rest,” when I
heard of their excellent achievements in
the cricketing world. But when it comes
to giving them money for taking part in
a match from which they probably got more
enjoyment than anybody else—well, I am
not amongst those present. It is putting
the emphasis on the wrong things of life.
A young Sydney composer of quite
renowned ability has had to give up his
career because-he was nearly starving. He
was trying to find the soul of Australia—
musically.
Sydney—and any other city for that
reason —will give thousands of pounds to
bookmakers for every penny it will give to
a native artist, whatever his mode of ex-
pression. Those who retort that it is
human nature are hopelessly wrong. The
more cultured European countries (I use
the adjective boldly) don’t regard it that
way. Your tram-guard or page-boy in
Vienna will tell you (so Faunce Allman,
who has just returned, assured me) what is
being performed at the opera, what con-
certs are on, who is performing, and who
is the best conductor or singer. Could you
imagine the average Sydney workman being
able to tell you anything else but the name
of the winning horse last Saturday or how
many centuries Bradman has made this
season?
The cure? The same old answer: “The
press, the pulpit and the petticoat.” They
all help to form and lead public opinion,
especially the press and the petticoat, which,
philosophers tell us, rule the world. Whom
does the average young woman admire most
—an Australian XI man or a young medical
man doing research?
N.S.W. Premier Bavin said at the Musical
Association Teachers’ Conference a few
days ago that every young nation finds diffi-
culty in cultivating its artistic side. It is
time we began to think about ours.
KEITH L. BARRY.
England To-day
I have been trying to justify my faith
in the English since I arrived here; my faith
that in literature, anyway, they still have
something to give the world. Alas, England
(Continued on page 5.)


w
l\\
These three items are products of Anthony Horderns' Furniture factory,
which is an assurance of their sound construction and durability. Note , also,
that satisfaction is guaranteed with every purchase at Anthony Horderns' .
The “Batman” Lowboy.
£6/10/-
In first-quality Pacific Oak or Maple
46in. wide, 20Jin. deep and 60in.
high, with two panelled doors.
Inside left door adjusting Mirror is
affixed, and in left compartment a
pull-out nickel-plated Slide is pro-
vided for Coats and Vests. Fitted
with full-length Tray for Trousers,
a Boot and Shoe Rack, three Trays
for Underwear, and a Hat Recep-
tacle. Strong spring for Neckties
attached to back of door.'
Price, each
£6/10/-
The “Radio” Easy Chair.
£4/15/-
This soft sprung Easy Chair is in superior
Oak, finished in dark brown and beautifully
upholstered in either Damask, Tapestry,
Moquette or Genoa Velvet. The Price is
extremely low. Each £4/15/-
B
The “Century” Service Waggon
19/11
Strongly made of best-quality
Pacific Oak, finished in fumed-oak
shade. Top measures 25in. x 1 6Jin.
and stands 30in. high. Fitted with
push handle and shaped brackets.
Rubber-tyred Wheels of good quality
are special features. This fine piece
of furniture is offered at a re-
markably low price.
Each
19/11
THE “DUNWILL” BEDROOM SUITE, £lO/17/6
The ‘home beautiful”
has long since ceased
to be the exception
and is now the rule.
Fashionable, modern
suites featuring all the
latest improvements of
design and comfort are
available at Anthony
Horderns’ economy
prices.
To assist you in making
sure that your home
conforms to modern
standards, Anthony
Horderns’ offer reliable
furniture of the latest
design at ‘‘Famous Low
Prices.’’
m
i
l
7
v=i
m
i
»:
We feature the “Dun-
will,” an attractive
three-piece Bedroom
Suite in selected Oak,
suitable for the small
room.
The Wardrobe is 3ft.
6in. wide, Dressing
Table 3ft. wide and the
Pedestal Cupboard
1 Bin. in width. Smart-
ness of design com-
bined with superior
workmanship is an
assurance of the
remarkable value of this
Suite. Offered at our
economy price.
£lO/17/6
Furniture Department—Ground Floor. Delivery Free City and Suburbs Only
USE OUR DEPOSIT.PURCHASE SYSTEM
«
You can secure any of these goods on our Deposit-Purchase System. All that is
necessary is to leave a small deposit, pay the balance later as it suits you, and when
payments are complete the goods will be delivered in the usual way. There is
no interest or extra charge whatever.
ŵ
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O.


The
URE-4!
nimira
i
R MUD
run
UIU
*. X-
\ VM
/-if
K
»
ft
£
b
- • If you did not know the price
From whatever viewpoint you regard it—whether rich appearance,
luxurious appointment or brilliant performance—if you did not know
the price of the Greater Hudson you would say, “There is a very
costly car.”
Hudson s long, constantly improved leadership of chassis values, riding
qualities and performance supremacy is this year rounded out with the
most beautiful, modern and numerous line of body types we have ever
presented.
The success of the Greater Hudson not only surpasses all former triumphs,
but is of special significance in the way Super-Six owners everywhere
lead the acclaim. Ask for a demonstration of these popular new models.
w
HUDSON PRICES AT SYDNEY.
5 Balloon Tyres Standard Equipment.
HUDSON—I22in. Wheel Base.
Coupe (Imported Body)
Standard Sedan (Imported Body) . . . . . . . .
Landau Sedan (Imported Body) . . . . . . . ,
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR
DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.
COMPANY
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
MOTORS LIMITED.,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
AUTOS LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.


Mappin Dressing Cases are made
in the newest styles, with fittings
, of Gold, Sterling Silver, Colored
Enamel, Tortoiseshell, Ivory, etc.
A Catalogue will be sent upon
request; prices range from
£lollol ■ to £2BO.
Visitors
toLondon
Mappin & Webb have the distinction of
being one of the oldest Firms of Gold
and Silversmiths, Jewellers, and Dress-
ing Bag Makers in the World, and they
extend a cordial invitation to visitors
from the Commonwealth to call when
<in London.
The Oxford Street and Regent Street
Showrooms are within 5 minutes by
taxi from the leading Hotels; the City
Showrooms are quite near St. Paul’s
Cathedral, The Tower of London, Guild-
hall, and opposite The Mansion House.
MAPPIN £ WEBB
LTD
JEWELLERY • WAT CHE S • CLOCKS • SILVERWARE
PRINCE’S PLATE • FANCY C LEATHER GOODS.
: LONDON SHOWROOMS :
158-162, OXFORD STw.i.I72.REGENT STw.i.2,QUEENYICTORIA STe.C.L
seems like a menagerie that has lost all
its lions, and in which the keepers are
prodding the monkeys to pandemonium
to conceal the disappearance of their
stupendous roarers.
But the babble of Wells and Shaw, Arnold
Bennett, Huxley and Masefield does not
deceive anyone; it is only too miserably
obvious that suddenly England has no
towering creative mind. Yesterday Conrad
threw a great shadow over these parts, and
the day before there was Dickens, and
further back Byron, Keats, Fielding—an
unbroken lineage to Shakspeare. Now you
feel that you have walked into a place
twisted and wounded by the battles of
gods, where everything bears some mark of
their enormous passion, now strangely, piti-
fully silent.
Lately Joynson Hicks has been deodoris-
ing all corners, as if in fear that some
essence of these great men might have
remained incubating, ready to spring into
life again. Flattered by the press and
perhaps conscious that England hasn’t a
mind dynamic enough to wish to thwart
him, he has clubbed a number of publishers
whose books threatened to destroy the
fiction with which mothers long since ceased
to misrepresent to their children the pro-
cess of love and birth. Sublimely indifferent
to canons of consistency, he reads a Bible
at fashionable churches on his off Sundays.
One needs to consider only a few aspects
of this censorship—that it is a recently
developed hysteria, that it is strong, that
it wouldn’t have been possible eight years
ago (which reveals a swift atrophy), that
all the Home Secretary has suppressed so
far for moral reasons anybody might have
justifiably suppressed for aesthetic ones,
That is the saddest part of the whole sad
business—that although many of the cen-
sored books represent some of the most
promising minds in the place, none of them
has the remotest flavor of value or vitality.
But of course this doesn’t prove that a good
book won’t be suppressed if the man
appears to write it. The effect and not
the thing is most important.
The intelligentsia hopes that the elections
will shove Sir William back into obscurity.
But that will make little difference. The
banning of a book makes a good, cheap
press shriek, and the public is too inert,
too thoroughly washed-out to wish for any-
thing but a life grooved and ditched by
bureaucracy. On our unrefulgent horizon
a new period of Puritanism seems to loom.
Americanisation, which is rapidly eating
away the old heart of England, Will prob-
ably precipitate this. Worn out by too
much prosperity and later by too much hate-
strain in the Great War, England has no
strength to fight off the menace, which mani-
fests itself in literature as a monopoly of
highly-organised libraries, like Mudie’s or
Smith’s, which can do more during the next
10 years to destroy the English novel than
Sir William Hicks could do in a geological
epoch.
But there is very little for them to
strangle. -Aesthetically, and intellectually,
England is living on the smell of yester-
day’s dinner. To examine the country is to
realise how little she exists in the present
and how fiercely she avoids the future. All
her thoughts, all her actions, her archi-
tecture, her domestic life belong to the days
of her commercial triumph. To to-morrow
she will leave few evidences that she was
a great nation in the twentieth century;
all her monuments are of Victorian and
early Georgian days.
The collapse of English literature is
simply explained. England has found no
one to synthesise the infinitely complex
emotions released by the war—the wash of
fears and ancient, festering hates, the lava
slush flung up by mental cataclysms during
the last few years—and the ecstatic delight
in life and living which are fundamentally
necessary to creation on the canvas of a
Shakspeare or a Beethoven. To-day the
problem of the artist is entirely new. For
Fielding. Dickens, Sterne, life was simpler:
man had not begun to unravel the intricate
cross-web of the mind’s old hidden tapes-
tries. Art must find some way to syn-r
thesise its joy in existence with its self-
realisation, or it will fossilise in abstraction.
In England and France it is beginning to
fossilise. I think it shows signs of attack-
ing the problem in Germany, the one corner
of Europe that is violently alive at this
moment. Explorations, in modern German
literature are a good antidote to the depres-
sion which the spiritual discovery of England
spawns in one’s blood.
Literature in England reveals its inability
to achieve the synthesis by the split between
Wells, Bennett and Shaw, on the one hand,
and D. H. Lawrence on the other. The
objective novelist insists upon the old
method of regarding life as something out-
side the beholder and unconnected with
him which he sees with a Jehovah-like pre-
science. Lawrence analyses it purely as a
product of the beholder’s depressed and
tortured subconscious. Only two men have
approached a synthesis—Conrad and. more
successfully, Norman Douglas in “South
V ind.” But Conrad is dead and the delight
of living absorbs Douglas too completely
to leave him energy for experiment in
literature. It is not probable that he will
try to advance on what he has done.
V here is the promise of renaissance that
moved our hopes in 1921 when “Antic
appeared and we realised the value of
Women in Love” and “Sons and Lovers”?
Far from fulfilling his promise—it was only
promise—Huxley has become a popular
journalist and writes such stuff as “Point
Counterpoint,” and nobody seems anxious
to do any better.
At the centre of a strong Irish move-
ment, Liam O’Flaherty is beginning to pro-
duce at least pleasant work. A Welsh move-
ment has discovered potentialities in Rhys
Davies. There is a strong Scotch move-
ment. Even Australia has a group here.
But England is making no effort to find an
aesthetic for the complicated material that
stress and battle have turned up in the
human mind.
LONDON.
BRIAN PENTON.
A Satchel of Books
Off the Deep End, by Christopher Morley
(tieineroonn). Bright light entertainments,
full of ingenious little schemes and as breezy
in style as are the sea and the outdoors, where
the author finds much of his inspiration.
Iveally good journalism, they fall short of
being good essays. It is the essayist’s busi-
ness to be confidential, but Mr. Morley leaves
the impression of pinning you in a corner
rather than sharing the room freely with you.
H'is best work is done in an impersonal mood
—in clever and amusing one-act plays. His
book altogether is cheerful company.
Peril, by Lloyd Osbourne (Hcinemann).
The collaborator of R.L.S. here manages an
intriguing mystery yarn. A millionaire dis-
appears, his wife is suspected of murder,
and the body of a man fished out of the water
and wearing some of his clothes is believed
to be his. Meanwhile the missing man lias
simply gone off and met his step-daughter
with the idea of clearing out with her. Then,
he actually is murdered, and thus is estab-
lished a seeming utter mystery. In the
solving a young writer plays the part of
the customary omniscient detective, and the
result is a story much more convincing than
most of its kind.
Slaves of the Sun, by Ferdinand Ossen-
dowski (Allen and Unwin). A first-class
book for lovers of the kind of literature that
is lumped in publishers’ lists under the em-
bracing heading “Travel.” Professor Ossen-
dowski is the Polish writer of excursions into
little-known parts of the globe whose
“Beasts, Men and Gods” provided some
breathlessly-exciting reading a year or so
ago. Here he adventures into Africa, chiefly
about Senegal, French Soudan and the Ivory
Coast, and whatever his pen touches lives
on the page. He sees in detail and broadly,
and in each perspective he sees only things
that are worth seeing. So well developed is
his narrative • sense that some of his chap-
ters become true short stories, and most of
his book holds the arresting flavor of good
fiction. The volume is well illustrated with
photos, and has been translated by 11. C.
Stevens into buoyant English.
Rabindranath Tagore: Letters to a Friend
(George Allen and Unwin),. Written by the
great poet and picturesque literary figure to
his friend C. F. Andrews between 1913 and
1921, these thoughtful and sincere letters
have been carefully edited. Two essays by
the editor —one on the Bengal renaissance,
the other on the personality of Tagore—are
interesting additions, and so also are the
finely reproduced Muirhead Bone and Mukul
Dey etchings of the poet. In one letter
lagore mentions having received a letter from
Sydney University asking if it was true that
he would not visit Australia even if he
was ar *t e( i there. “I have written,” he
adds, that it would be wrong on my part if
I refused to accept any invitation sent in
the right spirit. Pride of patriotism is not
for me.” Altogether the letters fix an impres-
sion of meeting a noble thinker and sterling
character on friendly and intimate terras.
The Pathway, by Henry Williamson
(Cape; Dymocks). A very beautiful novel
by the author of that grand book, “Tarka
the Otter.” There are more otters here,
and a striking old character who hunts them,
but these things and the rest of the nature
element in the book are subservient to tin;
pacifist theme and the human movement in
general. The historic fraternising of German
and British soldiers one Christmas Day in-
cluded in the party a Christ-like English
officer, who returns to Devon and there leads
a semi-nomadic existence, meanwhile writing
an imaginative book. There is a beautiful
love interest between himself and a girl
named Mary, against them forking maternal
antagonism, local gossip and human
stupidity. In the telling, dogs, birds, trees
and a wffiole countryside come to life. The
author is clearly a good naturalist, but does
not make the Jack Londonish error of giving
his non-human characters human character-
istics. His dogs are dogs, his birds are
birds, and his novel is a novel, in spite of
his hero’s regrettable tendency to tears.
Genius, Some Revaluations, by Arthur C.
Jacobson (Hamilton). This American writer
expresses his indebtedness to Dr Mac-
Laurin, whose brilliant studies of great
men and women of the past were first
published in The Bulletin. According to
Jacobson, if the eugenical dream of a per-
fectly healthy world were realised the result
would not be a race of supermen, but of
Babbits. Genius does not come from the
Right wing of humanity. It comes from
the Left. Its heredity is deplorable. Its
ancestry is full of maniacs, mental deficients,
drunkards and Genius, of
course, is not insanity or degeneracy, nor
has one only to infect an ordinary man
with tuberciffosis to turn him into a
Tchekhof or a Eugene O’Neill. Genius
is innate. The toxins of tuberculosis, alcohol
and insanity merely release the inhibitions of
the genius and enable him to sing his songs.
There have been geniuses who were actually
aware of the workings of this strange chemis-
ill -r^ 1 ™ kl°od. Some (George Cruik-
shank, Jan Steen, Phil May) drank in order
create- . Others (Artzibashef. Artemus
Ward, Maxim Gorky) gladly suffered the
onslaught of disease because out of it came
their greatest work. The genius, in short is
a superman whose creative spirit resides
not m his primary self, but in his secondarv
personality- The bad habits which S?n In
ordinary man into a social inefficient, a public
nuisance or a charge upon the State convert
the man of superior talent into a leader in
thought and action. A supremely interesting
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communication* insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. A’o liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
D.A.S.C.: You didn’t hear The Bulletin’s
voice in that chorus, anyhow... .Henry D.: Again
attractively told; and again so little to tell
W.T.C.: Spoiled by the inane ending... .T.S.G.: Not
enough meat on its bones... .Ngaboni: Thanks; view
already presented... .E.R.W.: Afraid some of your
informants handled the truth carelessly... .Sea Rue:
I es, but there really is nothing remarkable about
Australian butter selling for less in England than
in Australia. For one thing, our paper pound already
is worth less than the English paper pound....
C.H.S.: A little good grain there, but the job of
winnowing it out beats us... .Coopia: Very dull;
and we’re sorry, because some of it needs saying.
. ...K.A.J.: Slight; but its sincerity nearly saved it.
. ...W.T.W.: Can’t make ourselves believe the little
chap would do it.... J.T.8.: Don’t appoint local
correspondents, but are always hungry for personal
and other pars, of all-Australian interest, and we’ll
buy them from anybody... .F.A.D<: Pointless as a
cricket ba11... .S.T.A.: “I enclose some verse on
Mr. W. M. Hughes. What is The Bum. etin's candid
opinion of Mr. W. M. Hughes?” Which candid
opinion? The B. has dozens of them G.J.N.:
Only commonplaces. ...C.G.: The answer to “The
Question” is no. ... J.E.K.: You’re very young,
aren’t you?.. . .8.G.L.: “The Critic” dreadful. The
ether much better, but creaks ih its joints....
Kesem: Statement that "when Puss licks behind her
ears, then I know it’s going to rain,” sent to
meteorologist. Maybe it’s a better system than
the one he’s g0t.... Mac: Flat as yesterday’s frozen
beer.,.. 8.A.: Cannot give detailed criticism of such
a large batch. It is competently done, but breaks
no new ground and does not soar in feeling or
expression. Extremely difficult to get verse published
in Australia in book form without footing the bill
yourself. Person mentioned would probably either
do it for nothing or not at all Rose V.: Out.
A.K.: That isn’t art; it’s artificial.... L.1.T.:
Now the basket is suing us for defamation of
character.... L.A.S.: “Sajts or Pills?” Half-and-
half, please, sister !... .A.J.W.: Only a zephyr
G.McL.: Don’t care for either... .8.R.A.: They leave
us c01d... .C.N.: She walks, the lady of your delight,
upon a pair of stilts... .Geb: Poor of its kind....
L.F.W.: Not in our line E.H.: Still don’t care
for Morgan... .M.F.: Faint humor never won a
fair payday.... Will C.: “Pedunculated truss” is a
lovely line... .Robin K.: All backs... .Michael: Not
badly written, but intensely depressing... .M. 8.:
Shows sympathy and imagination; poorly constructed,
however.... K.K.: Flowery, also weedy—prune and
plough... .N.W.: “The Roaring Forties” blown out.
....T.S.G.: Road-hog story skidded... .A.W.M.:
“The Argument” came to a bad end J.J.D.: Your
hero needs a nurse. .. .E.A.D.: Make it D.E.A.D... :.
Shell: No string of pearls G.M.R.:, “His soul was
hungry but his words were commonplace.” Endorse
the “commonplace.” Competitors must be Australian-
born or bona fide resident in Australia, Maoriland or
the South Pacific Tiptoe: Brief but spirited....
H.L.8.H.: No room for bush-pub ghosts... .E.K.P.:
Good descriptive matter, but no story interest
IJ.J.McK.: In his placing of those writers, John
Dailey stated a generally accepted fact. It’s
useless merely saying that’s wrong; you need to
prove it 8.G.L.: Still in the heavyweight class.
.... Franagher: Interest narrow as a Sydney street.
. ...J.8.5.: “Missed”—that’s right... .L.A.S.: “Clay-
pan Wireless” overcharged with metrical static....
Irvine: Your “Ideal Life” very nearly paid....
C.W.P.: Verse in print already for that occasion.
. ...M.E.: Only attractive feature is the title, "A
Psalm of Wife”... .Half-moon: You throw a weak
ray.... J.: One pregnant stanza from “Australia”: —>
There’s no land on this earth so healthy,
So free of crime and disgrace,
Yet for brave and invincible airmen
It has always been given first place.
. ...A.J.8.: Liked the “streamlet sempiternal, spry.”
. ...C.F.: Took three readings to beat it....J.W.:
Mere truisms... .Piscis : Monotonous refrain... .N.G.:
Not here.... W.A.D.: N 0.... Java: Hate to say it’s
very bad, but it is... .Mintie: It’s in moments like
these wo need whisky... .L.D.C.: Commonest thing
uninspired versifiers write about is the lamentable and
obvious fact that they can’t sing Stony Broke:
You do Satan an injustice... .Bourke: Nearly all well
said. Get something to 5ay....8.Q.: Don’t fancy
your “Guest” R.G.P.: Frilled lizard decapitated.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
V.J.C.: (1) Couldn’t say. If stamps accompanied
them, they would be returned. (2) No. (3) A
month or 50... .G.D.H.: Like the young man, we
decided it was too broad.... Swastika: Both old
friends... .N. 8.: You merely stab blindly at the
paper with your pen.... L.T.: We’ve taken out a
prohibition order against that class of joke....
J.G.S.: Drawing and gag alike du11... .F.H.: Young
man, you are wasting your time, and ours. .. .K.K.J.:
Everything is askew... .F.P.: If you must use Chinese
white, strive to use it correctly... .D.L.T.: The
joke has been translated into nine and ninety
languages... .E.A.J.: Five “plurries” and three
“hies” in one line don’t make it any less dreary.
. ...5.0.M.: The draw'ing-room sets show some pro-
mise; the street scenes are not much good P.M,:
No use for fragments on backs of envelopes....
T.D.: What the widow shouted to the iceman
won’t be published... .11.M.G.: You tackle your work
with gusto, but you need technique a150....C.R.
Worthless as yet... .M.11.K.: It bored us... .8.D.5.:
Just a mass of angular lines.


ŵ
D
J
MARK TWAIN, in his
book “Following the Equa-
tor,” on Page 233, writes
regarding the GREAT
WESTERN VINEYARDS:
“It yields a choice cham-
pagne. . . . The champagne
is kept in a maze of pas-
sages underground, cut in
the rock, to secure it an
even temperature during
the three-year term re-
quired to perfect it.”
s
M, A
i, m
mm
ms
w
m
a
■
m
W*'
■
ft ■
r_>
m tPP I fp
ẁ


The Bulletin
Vol. 50.—N0. 2567.
April 24, 1929.
THE UNAPPRECIATED MACHINES.
In a speech in Melbourne, on his return from abroad, Professor Harrison Moore deplored the lack of public interest in politics.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
SI-} George Street, Sydney.
Victoria: IU/-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 21/9 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
'Vestralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
5 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £l Ills.;
6 months, 16s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom: l/oz. to 10m., lid. :
each additional l/oz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: l/oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elseiohere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
BALDWIN SPENCER’S NEW BOOK .. ..2
AUSTRALIA’S LOST SOUL 2
England To-day—by Brian Penton.. 2, 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ..5
A LEASON CARTOON 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
The Curse of Party •. • • .. 8
A Policy for Queensland .. .. 8
Coal and the Universities .. 8
TASMANIA’S DISTRESS 8
AIRCRAFT OR NAVY? 9
“Lest We Forget”
—An Anzac Day drawing by Percival .. .. 9
POLITICS (with caricatures) .. .. ..10
SOCIETY (with drawings) 11, 12
PERSONAL (with caricatures) .. .. ..18
“WILD CAT’’ COLUMNS 14, 10
Bank of Adelaide 14
CITY ELECTRIC (BRISBANE) .. • • 14
METROPOLITAN LIFE 14
POVERTY POINT 17
“THE PERI AT THE GATE,” by Scorfield . . 17
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. • • 18
Pavlova —a drawing by Frain 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 19,20
MAN ON THE LAND 22, 25
HOME-MADE SUPER 22
Free Service Department 26
SMOKE-OH 28
“A Rogue in Amber” •• •• 30, 44, 47 (
PEN AND PICTURE 33
NEW MOVIES AND TALKIES •• •• 33
SPORTING (Illustrated) 35, 37, 39
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 40
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 42
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 43
VERSE .. 44, 47, 50
“MAGIC MOUNTAINS,” by John Sandes .. 44
Complete Story—
“THE MAN WHO COULD NOT DIE,”
by It. Exon Butehart . . • • 49, 50
Tfie&uUetM
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 24, 1929.
THE CURSE OF PARTY.
The leading political soothsayers are
agreed that the Baldwin Government will
be beaten in the present appeal to the
country. The by-elections of the past 18
months, culminating in North Lanark,
where a 26-vear-old girl has turned a Tory
majority of 2000 into a Labor majority of
6600, seem to justify the prediction that
the Government will lose anything up to
150 scats
Why this sudden change on the part of
the electors? Mr. Baldwin is still, pro-
bably, the most respected statesman in the
Empire. His rugged countenance, his
homely pipes, his ill-fitting clothes all help
to present him as what he doubtless is—
one of the Creator’s noblest works, a simple
virtuous English gentleman. His imminent
downfall, then, may be attributed to the
growth of a widespread conviction that
simplicity and integrity are not enough
when unaccompanied by achievement. The
Baldwin Government’s record in the way
of sins of omission is indeed appalling. It
is spending over £50,000,000 p.a. on the un-
employment dole, and nearly as much
again on artificial relief works; and there
are about a quarter of a million more unem-
ployed than there were last year.
British men and women are being kept
alive by these ruinous expedients, but they
are being destroyed morally and physically,
and most of them are aware of it. They
want that in which they know, deep down
in their hearts, salvation alone lies, and that
is work; and the offence of the Government
is that, in spite of the honesty and
humanity of its leader and the brilliant
intellectual gifts o£ some of his colleagues,
nothing has been done to minimise unem-
ployment, and nothing is likely to be done.
The strength of Labor and Liberalism in
the approaching fray is that they can
promise to give work. Every Opposition
wins on extravagant promises these days,
and is driven out because none of the more
vital promises are fulfilled.
While the British Government has been
pouring out doles, piling up unemployed,
and looking desperately for quarters of the
globe in which to dump the flower of its
youth, male and female, the Italian Gov-
ernment has solved its unemployment pro-
blem to such purpose that it is in a posi-
tion to put a ban on emigration. The
Piave Valley is as prosperous as any British
mining district was before the war, and
Italy’s heavy industries are booming—at
any Tate, by comparison with those of
Britain. Without suggesting that Britain
or other countries, such as Australia, which,
are suffering from unemployment-cum-
Btrike difficulties, should resort to despot-
isms, it may be said, anyhow, that demo-
cratic government as we practise it is
failing to cure the most serious national ills.
Assume that the Baldwin Government
or the Bruce Government, or any other
under the Party system as it is worked
to-day, was inspired by a Heaven-sent plan
to put, say, a fallen mining industry on
its feet. A plan of the sort, to be effica-
cious, might demand delicate diplomatic
negotiations with a Minister acting in a
judicial capacity; or it might call lor
action on a heroic scale involving such
measures as the compulsory closing ot un-
economic pits, the grouping of the econo-
mic ones, the provision in many pits of up-
to-date machinery, and so on. The plan
might be a perfectly good one, but that
would only be a sounder reason in the eyes
of the Opposition for fighting desperately
to deny the Government the credit of mak-
ing it work. .
So-called democratic Government, as it
has developed under the Party system, has
failed utterly, and it is only our racial
readiness to be humbugged by catch-woids
that prevents a general realisation of the
fact. The difference between the British
arrangement under which two or more
cabals choose candidates for whom the elec-
tors are forced to vote, and the Italian one
under which a single cabal performs the
same function, is chiefly that, under the
first, the Government is continually inter-
fered with in its efforts to get things done,
while under the second it isnt; or, to put it
in another way, under the one, big results
can be got and under the other, no matter
how earnest and intelligent a Ministry may
be, it is almost impossible to get results.
It is an impasse from which the Britons
traditional genius for self-government must
shortly deliver him, or national disaster
will be the outcome.
A POLICY FOR A DISINFECTED
QUEENSLAND.
Though the Nationalist or Country-
Nationalist Party has been out of office m
Queensland since 1915, there are hopes that
it may come back at the ensuing election,
one reason being that the long-lived Rydor-
gilmack. Cabinet has done about all the
harm it knows of, and is hard pressed to
invent a new sin. Still the difficulties are
serious. The electorates are uneven,
Attorney-General Mullan, who represents
the smallest, having 2652 constituents, while
MacDonnei.l King, of the Country Party,
stands for 11,583. The ghosts are relied on
to vote the Government ticket, that being
all they are dead for. And though the
counting of the votes isn’t so suspicious
as in the case of the 1 imber-Workers
Union in Sydney, when ballot-papers were
burned in the streets along with the effigy
of a Judge, it isn’t everywhere regarded as
an emblem of spotless purity.
Opposition-Leader Moore has a few clear
and definite ideas for purifying the atmo-
sphere. He proposes to abolish the ex-
clusive leasehold tenure under which every
man is a tenant, with the State instead of
the squire as his overlord, and let the
freeholder or home-owner try his hand
again. The door was closed against any
expansion of the Queensland freeholder in
1917, as it was against the same individual
in the Northern Territory in 1912. But for
the increase in the sugar-cane area under
the Federal subsidy system, the space under
crop in Queensland would be 80,000 acres
less now than it was before the change.
As the cultivated percentage is the smallest
among the States, Moore considers that the
Heaven-sent inspiration hasn’t justified itself;
and no one appears to believe that it has
been a dazzling success in the Northern
Territory, either. As Moore put the case,
“The selector who is asked to endure pion-
eering conditions, and to spend time, energy
and capital in providing a decent home for
his wife and children, is entitled to some-
thing more than a re-appraisement of rent
every 15 years, every increase of rent being
a further tax on the accumulated result of
his industry.”
A further plank of Moore's platform is
that, as the Queensland State enterprises
have been wholly unsatisfactory, and as
the State stations have lost over £1,000,000
and the Government’s copper-mines and
smelters about the same amount, it is
best to go out of the business of Govern-
ment trading in odds and ends. There is
nothing to be said for this trading except
that it is in some way a palladium of liberty,
and a blessed evidence that the community
has shaken off the shackles of the tyrant
and the oppressor. But the palladium has
lost £7,500,000 and the State has not gained
a thing besides experience. Moore also pro-
poses to lay a sacrilegious hand on a par-
ticularly precious little brass god by replac-
ing day labor, as far as possible, in public
works by the contract system. This is
not because the day’s pay is excessive in
itself, but because the half-day’s labor given
in return is an imposition. In the southern
part of the State, where the conditions are
best, the building of a little school measur-
ing seven yards by six yards drags along
till the bill is £650, which is 100 per cent,
above a fair thing.
By way of coming down to a simple test
of sincerity, the promise is made that if a
Moore Ministry attains to office it will at
once proceed to reduce members’ salaries
by £l5O a year, that being the sum which
the present crowd put on in one of its
moments of inspiration.
Many items go to the making of a
policy. Among them it is promised that
the prospective Nationalist Cabinet won’t
be an importing freak like its predecessor,
with a suspicious craving for non-Australian
products; that its members won’t provide
for themselves by jumping highly-paid
billets in the Public Service, after the
manner of Hardacre and Gillies, over the
heads of men with claims to promotion;
and that it will make an equitable distri-
bution of electorates and send the ghost
electors home for a well-earned rest. They
have been working hard since the Ryans
put 89,000 mostly-spectral brothers and
sisters on the roll in their first hour of
triumph, and a spell of repose is due. A
referendum is to be taken re the establish-
ment of a Second Chamber in place of the
old one which was abolished in defiance of
a referendum. On that occasion the people,
being consulted on the abolition in the
confident hope that they would say “Yes,”
answered “No” by a big majority; where-
upon the Legislature said “Yes” for them
in its own high-handed way.
The most difficult feature of the Moore
programme is, that dealing with railways.
The aim is to “free them from the malign
influence of party politics.” But while they
belong nominally to the people, but really
to the people’s creditors, the people will
manage them through its members, who are
practically all “party” and largely “malign.”
If they are put under “independent com-
missioners” the politicians will appoint the
commissioners and interfere with their in-
dependence. If malign party politicians let
go, malign union officials and Red insur-
rectionists may take hold, as they have done
in Queensland, and prove more malign.
Public Railway Enterprise in Bananaland
looks demoralised and insolvent beyond
repair, though a way out may be possible
and, in order to win it, a sale of the whole
concern is no longer outside the regions of
practical politics.
COAL AND THE UNIVERSITIES.
It is difficult for the long-suffering public
to get even a hint of what is really wrong
with the coal-mining industry from the
propaganda which emanates from the hos-
tile camps, and thereafter disgraces the daily
papers.
The owners, making the attack with the
cry of “high wages,” point out that the
miners are getting so much more than they
did in pre-war days; but this slogan covers
a multitude of sins, of their own. It is
quite true that wages in the industry have
gone up. But the price of coal has gone
up much more. And this has to be remem-
bered: the cost of labor has gone up in
every industry—in some cases tremendously
—yet many such an industry has carried
on though it has not always been able to
pass the extra cost on. In other words,
driven into a corner, the captains of these
industries have improved their practice in
some directions and made direct economies
in others.
This does not try to cover the fact that
in the coal business the miner receives
too much wages. When, in an industry that
is declining through the exorbitant price
of its product, a miner can fairly easily
earn £2 a day, after paying for his tools and
explosives, and make more than most of
the officials in the industry, it is practi-
cally impossible "for even the strongest
partisan to make a good case for him.
Anyone who is conversant with the tw'o
branches of underground work in Australia
—metal-mining and coal-mining—will have
no difficulty in putting his finger on a wide
divergence. And tracing it back he will
discover that it is due to the lack of tech-
nical training and intelligence in Australian
coal-mining. This industry fails even to
keep pace with the most ordinary technical
developments overseas.
Staffs of Australian metal-mines, com-
posed to a large extent of Australian uni-
versity graduates, have contributed and are
continuing to contribute greatly to modern
advancement in mining and metallurgy.
The names of several of them — Owen, for
example, in silver-lead metallurgy, Moulden
in the metallurgy of zinc, Newman in allu-
vial engineering—are world-famous. No
claim can therefore be made that the tech-
nical brains are not available. Yet the
coalpits present a sight not greatly dissimi-
lar to that of 30 years ago. Most Australian
coal is hand-hewn, filled by hand into skips
with stupidly high sides and drawn by the
antiquated horse, hauled and hoisted any-
how. and marketed with little or no regard
to the use to which it is to be put; and to a
great extent this marketing has been a very
dirty business. The results are pathetic. A
pair of contract miners, with two or three
offhands (wheelers, clippers, shiftmen etc.),
totalling four or five men underground,handle
about 18 tons per day. A machine is being
used in the U.S.A. and on the Ruhr which,
working on a 6ft. seam, with one operator
and an assistant, will mine and load into
skips 25i tons in 55 minutes and easily
mine and load 150 tons in eight hours!
With anything like modern equipment, two
hands underground are all that are needed
to cope with this output. Then there
are the reductions of cost consequent on
concentrating operations into a small area.
Further, modern practice is to market dif-
ferent sizes of coal for different purposes,
and have it sent to the consumer with a
minimum ash burden. Australian coal-
operators have done next to nothing in
any such respect.
The only solution of the problem involved
in the Australian coal industry’s backward-
ness lies in approximating the technical
efficiency of colliery staffs to that of metal-
mines by securing a fair sprinkling at least
of university graduates in coalmines. The
addition of a composite chemical-research
department, financed by the owners, to de-
termine the adaptability of various classes
of coals for different purposes, would also
help to regain some of the lost markets
and perhaps make new ones.
ALUNITE.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Small Sister’s Distress.
With a known death-roll of 27, dozens of
hemes demolished, hundreds of hurriedly-
vacated houses in Launceston’s low-lying
suburbs rendered uninhabitable and their
contents ruined by the flood waters, the
Briseis mine outed (probably permanently)
by the bursting of the great dam, 30 import-
ant and 50 lesser railway and road bridges
either swept away or seriously damaged,
miles of road and railway tracks mauled
and tumbled into shapelessness by the roar-
ing inundation, land-slides and huge logs
blocking every sidling track in the hilly dis-
tricts, many farm paddocks denuded of
crops, fences, trees, live stock and even the
soil to plough-depth, Tasmania has been
struck by the biggest disaster of its his-
tory.
The north and east of the Island suffered
the worst fury of the deluge. The West
Coast, which is used to having its rainfall
measured in feet, escaped with loss of
railway and telegraph communication for a
few days. The south, including Hobart and
the Hiion and Derwent valleys, experienced
nothing worse than anxiety—no news
barring a few scrappy wireless items reaching
the capital for two days, owing to the rail-
way, telegraph, telephone and road stop-
page.
It is yet too early to estimate the total
damage, which will run into perhaps a
couple of millions. To restore the roads and
bridges and other public works will probably
cost the State*Government something like
£400,000 or £soo,ooo—to say nothing of that
portion of the general expenses of the dis-
aster (feeding and clothing the homeless
and re-housing them) which voluntary
relief funds, splendid as they are, may not
wholly cover. Which means that if Tas-
mania is to retain her identity as a full-
blown State, Treasurer McPhee will have
to visit Uncle again, and/or impose extra
taxation of a more direct kind. Is either
alternative is particularly promising nor
overpoweringly pleasant. The other visible
alternative is'for the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment to take over the whole liability
holus-bolus, and on its own terms, even
if those terms involve the amalgamation
of Tasmania with Victoria.
After all, if the floods are to be permitted
to sweep Tas. off its financial feet alto-
gether, leaving it to struggle and flounder
about with no better support than the
already-overloaded raft of public borrowing
and no less futile means of propulsion than
the worn-out tooth-comb of the tax com-
missioner, it is clear that the Common-
wealth will have to go to the rescue sooner
or later. And it is wiser to salvage a live
ship than a waterlogged derelict.
Safety Last.
There is no blinking the fact that the
Commonwealth has been given a thoroughly
bad advertisement by the latest activities
of its fliers. The world knows that this
country can produce men and machines
capable of going wherever other men and
machines can go, but it has always ques-
tioned the quality of our ground organisa-
tion; and the Southern Cross crash, followed
by the disappearance of Keith Anderson,
will have strengthened the disastrous over-
seas impression that Australia is a desert
where death by starvation is the likely
penalty of a forced landing.
If our newspapers wanted to add to their
prestige and circulation on practical lines
they would dispatch correspondents, not to
describe how lives may be risked in the air,
but to demonstrate how air-travelling may
be made safer. Major de Havilland, D. 5.0.,
said the other day that “it is impossible to
fly 100 miles in any one direction anywhere
in Australia with real security”; and an
effect of the Southern Cross venture has
been to broadcast that sweeping criticism.
In other words, to present Australia to the
world as behind the most backward of the
European countries in the matter of air-
travel.
♦
Aircraft or Navy?
“X.N.0.”: “Ezra” (B. 17/4/’29) is a danger
to Australia, not because he puts in a word
for the P. 8.1. [Poor Blanky Infantry], who
deserve and always have deserved every-
thing good that has ever been said about
them, but because he has got his data all
wrong and has produced a series of specious
and badly-founded arguments belittling the
principle of Naval Defence from the point
of view of Australia.
When discussing the defence of an island
kingdom —not an attack by such on another
country—the Navy and Air forces are em-
phatically not auxiliary to the land forces,
as “Ezra” asserts.


The question raised by “J.H.M.A.” con-
cerned the relative values of ships and air-
craft as means of defence, and his naval pal
thought in effect that the Australian people
had gone air-mad. So do I.
In support of his argument that the
P. 8.1. ultimately settle the argument, “Ezra”
says that the year after Trafalgar “saw the
French in Berlin and Europe under the feet
of Napoleon for the next seven years.”
But England wasn’t under anybody’s feet
and not since 1066 has an invader set foot
on English soil. Thanks to naval defence
England has been successfully defended for
863 years.
Australia is entirely seagirt, and her
defence measures should be such as will
obviate any necessity for employing the
P. 8.1. at all. That can only be done by
having defence forces capable of dealing
with the craft conveying the enemy’s P. 8.1.
long before they are near enough to our
coast to do any damage.
“Ezra” asserts that “not all the navies
and air forces in the world could prevent
troops landing somewhere on our coast.”
This is piffle. If on the outbreak of war
we could send forth a navy or an air force
to find and sink the enemy’s transports—
air or otherwise—before thej'- reached our
coast, then there will be no landing and no
need for the P. 8.1. Australia will be
defended if the attacking force can be
destroyed before it reaches us. That is
merely plain English. If the P. 8.1. comes
into action on Australian soil, the Navy
has failed or the enemy has split up his
transporting fleet into small sections in the
hope that some may get through. If he
is fool enough to do that, those that do
land won’t matter much.
We know an adequate navy adequately
manned and commanded can prevent an
island territory from being invaded —vide
863 years of history—and the question is,
“Can that navy be one that flies, or do we
still rely on surface ships?” “No” and
“Yes” are my answers to that double-
barrelled question, because (1) aircraft have
not yet attained a sufficient radius of action
to enable them to reach Australia from
any possible enemy, so that ships—aircraft
carriers—must carry them most of the way
first; (2) conversely, our aircraft could not
yet go far enough to deal with the enemy’s
carriers—or war vessels—until they are un-
comfortably close; (3) aircraft are still too
dependent on weather, and the enemy with
his surface craft need only wait for suit-
able weather to come and do what he likes
unmolested if we rely on aircraft alone.
_ “Ezra” says “it would be an • unhappy
time for the transport or cruiser discovered
[by aircraft] within 200 miles of our coast.”
It would be unhappy for Australia if
our defence measures were going deliberately
to permit the enemy to get as close as
that before we start to deal with him.
0
What a Tariff Can Do.
Australia has paid the United States in
five years £123,000,0000 of mostly borrowed
money to settle trade differences, which is
just that much more than it could afford.
Now a movement for increased commercial
prohibition on the other side of the Pacific
has moved the Australian Government to
send a diplomatic note, which is stated,
quite superfluously, to be “couched in con-
ciliatory terms”:—
After pointing out the huge adverse bal-
ance of trade between Australia and the
United States in favor of America, the note
states that grave dissatisfaction exists in
Australia over the treatment received by
Australian exporters, and indicates that if
the policy of penalising Australian commerce
is accentuated the question is certain to
be raised in the Australian Parliament,
either by the Ministry or by private members.
Ao threat of retaliation is made except hy
inference.
It looks like a tame and dubious policy.
Australia has no right at all to interfere in
the matter of the U.S. tariff. That tariff
is purely a domestic matter. So is the
Australian tariff, and the U.S.A. would have
no right to interfere if we offered preference
—a tremendous preference—to those coun-
tries whose trade was profitable to us. Met
by a tariff of tnat description the U.S.A.
might see the advantages of modifying their
own tariff in our favor.
*
Bribes Not Proven.
About the nearest permissible approach to
the Scottish jury-verdict of “not proven”
was given by a Sydney jury which had to
listen to the details of a charge of attempted
bribery levelled against a motor-omnibus
proprietor, Michael Fitzgibbons, at the
instance of the late Chief Secretary of the
State, Albert Bruntnell.
The admitted facts were that a Nationalist
member named Jarvie had consented *to
convey to Mr. Bruntnell, as a gift from
Fitzgibbons, one of his constituents, a case
of pipes. Fitzgibbons, at the time, was
besieging the Chief Secretary’s department
for a permit to extend his ’bus route, and
there was a rival claimant for the extension.
Jarvie said that he took the pipes to
Bruntnell. Bruntnell found, attached to
the packet, an envelope containing £2OO,
which Jarvie swore was placed there without
his knowledge or consent. Fitzgibbons
alleged that he had entrusted Jarvie
with £5OO, £3OO of which had been
handed back, on demand being made,
after Bruntnell had called in the
police; and Fitzgibbons and one Cooper
swore that another Nationalist member
of the N. S. Wales Assembly, J. T. Ness,
had invited, as the price of his influence
with the Chief Secretary, a complete out-
fit of clothes, to cost £25. According to
Jarvie, this Cooper said he had offered
Speaker Levy £lOO "to do his best in the
case,” but Cooper denied having made any
such statement, and the Speaker’s repudia-
tion was emphatic and convincing. Brunt-
nell, being dead, could not appear at the
trial, nor was it necessary for him to defend
his character. The small estate he lelt
to his family was demonstrably very
honestly earned. His action in immediately
unmasking, what he regarded as an attempt
at bribery placed him above suspicion.
Ness said the evidence of Fitzgibbons and
Cooper regarding him was a deliberate un-
truth. Jarvie, who thought, apparently,
that it was quite proper he should convey
to a Minister of the Crown a gift worth
50s. from a constituent who was a suitor
for favors, also said Fitzgibbons and Cooper
were liars, but he admitted having recom-
mended the accused to Bruntnell in spite
of the man’s own statement that he had
previously tried to bribe the Traffic De-
partment. The jury, without waiting to
hear the whole of counsel’s address for
the defence, found a verdict of “not guilty.”
• The jury’s verdict may be interpreted to
mean that in their opinion the charge that
Fitzgibbons attempted to bribe a Minister
isn’t credible, and that the accused’s state-
ment that he paid over what money he did
pay as a donation to the Nationalist party’s
funds, in gratitude for favors to come, is
credible. It may mean other things, but
whatever it means it doesn’t mean that all
the pre-selected Nationalist members in the
N. S. Wales Assembly are in the category
of CjEsar’s wife, nor that- the party is a
potato without a single mark of interroga-
tion upon its cleanliness.
*
Robbery Is a Crime Whoever Does It.
The State’s capacity for being cruel, as well
as asinine, is shown in connection with the
conviction of an elderly railway worker in
a Sydney police court a few days ago. He
had stolen some timber from a railway shed,
and the magistrate, on learning that it was
a first offence and that there were poignant
circumstances surrounding the affair, sus-
pended sentence on the usual terms. The
State, however, took it on itself to com-
mandeer his 20 years’ superannuation pay-
ments and every other endowment to which
he had become entitled in the course of his
25 years’ service.
A private citizen may be guilty of a slip,
escape with a trifling punishment, and per-
haps keep his job, where a public servant
is liable to the same punishment, is dis-
missed, and is fined, in addition, the whole
of the sum which he has put by for his old
age!
This railwayman has been punished for
his foolish action by a criminal conviction
and the loss of his character and job. The
N. S. Wales Government has no more
moral right to take his superannuation
money as well than he had to take its
timber.
*
Traffic in Sydney Harbor.
“Elless”: The main roads leading to and
from Sydney being so congested with motor
traffic at the week-ends, I was moved to
purchase a motor launch. After my experi-
ence of a few Sundays I’m convinced that
Parramatta-road at its traffic-peak is a haven
of safety compared with Our Harbor.
Speed fiends in motor craft that raise
waves like an ocean liner’s, and amateur
helmsmen who don’t know the first thing
about the rule of the road, gave me all the
thrills I want.
Surely some knowledge of seamanship
and navigation should be made compulsory.
At present any fool with sufficient money
to purchase a speed-boat or other craft
can be a menace to all shipping in the
port, and the potential slayer of pleasure-
seekers—often women and children—piloted
by competent watermen.
*
An increasing number of cases of electro-
cution can be traced to faulty workman-
ship by unskilled men. N. S. Wales especi-
ally is full of “week-end electricians”—
men who take advantage of the absurd five-
day week to make a little extra money
doing odd jobs at cheap rates on Saturdays.
The week-end electrician does not always
stop at that, either. He even installs the
light, and though this has to be passed
by an inspector there is much that an in-
spector cannot see unless he cares to pull
the house to pieces. Further, after the job
has been passed, the owner of the pro-
perty, or the tenant, usually decides that
an extra light or two are needed, or a
power-point for an electric iron or a radio
eliminator, and the cheap amateur is called
in. Until electric workers are licensed and
amateur electricians suitably dealt with, all
installations will have to be regarded with
grave suspicion.
♦
“Gelt”: I’m foggy about the connection of
Jacob’s voice with the Rabaul trouble, but
I do know that the article (B. 16/l/’29),
which was- reprinted in the local paper in
Rabaul, brought forth a lengthy letter
signed by “A German Missionary,” who
naturally took exception to the innuendo of
German complicity with the native-labor
“strike.” In an editorial footnote the
feelings of the majority of the residents of
Rabaul are expressed:—
“.... So far as we know, all Australians
and Germans here are on the best of terms,
which is as it should be.”
If any bitterness towards the Germans is
still retained it is certainly not fostered by
returned men. In fact, those few Diggers
who were here before the war regret that
the German administration was ever forced
to leave the country. For that feeling
the present polic}'- foisted upon the Admini-
stration by Canberra is largely responsible.
LEST WE FORGET
There shall be apples in harvest still,
and spring-time blossoms again,
Summer returning and green on the
hill with the early autumn rain;
But never Australia's fallen sons to
the things that they used to know
While the sun goes round, or the river
runs, till Gabriel's trumpets blow.
From the waves that lift by the Leeu-
win green to the far fEgcan sea,
From the rippling wheat of the River-
ine to the plains of Picardy,
From Queensland rivers, from scarp
and scar where Gippsland's sky-
lines stand,
Their graves are scattered from Flan-
ders far to the rim of the Holy
Land.
Bugles of color the spring shall blow
of the wattle’s faery gold;
Cohorts of summer shall sweeping go
over the far hill’s fold;
Winter shall march with, his myriads
grey where the hoary rain-wreaths
fall—
All of them call to each “Come home,”
but they answer never at all.
VICTORIA.
Never at all, though April seeks when;
the early heath-flower starts,
Or the flowering almond of August
speaks to unforgetting hearts.
We read the message, we hear the
call, but they their conflicts cease;
They rest with God’s stars over them
in the dreamless halls of Peace.
Yet, maybe, an army’s ghostly drum
beats up from the far-away.
Unseen, unheard, where a myriad come
to memory’s call to-day
From alien graves o’er oceans icide to
their marching kith and kin.
Comrade by comrade they stand beside
when the bugle sounds “Fall in.”
* * * *
There shall be honey-gold harvest
wheat and glory that spring
regains,
Rummer in shimmering veils of heat,
and the misty mountain rains;
But never the sons Australia bred, to
the land that was their own,
Till earth gives up her glorious dead,
and Gabriel’s trump be blown.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


RESERVE
!<m3 WKisR-V
' ■'
RED, WHITE and BLUE
WHISKY
Gaelic Special Reserve
DEARER BUT BETTER
ORME, KEIGWIN & CO., LTD.
269-271 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN AGENTS: JAMES HENTY & CO., 499 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: B. SEPPELT & SONS, LTD., 444 QUEEN STREET, BRI SBANE.
: •
geciAL . reserve
Whisky
«£!■ I«#T:«mHJK
POLITICAL
POINTS
“Take out me ad.!” is a cry that makes
country editors turn pale. The equivalent
in writing has been hurled at Brisbane Tele-
graph by Premier McCormack, who passion-
ately accuses it of “wilfully and unscrupu-
lously damaging the credit of the State.” The
Telegraph, according to McCormack's
account, questioned his assurance that he had
the wherewithal in Condon to meet the cost
of a big conversion loan, and quoted a Labor
JAMES COWLISHAW.
Department report as to there being 46,512
Queenslanders unemployed without mention-
ing that military 1 and old-age pensioners and
the like were included. A very solid under-
taking, thanks to James Cowlishaw, the
Telegraph can stand the embargo, though
it doesn’t like it any the more on that
account.
In one way and another the search for
the crew of the Southern .Cross has cost
anything from £50,000 up. What is immea-
surably worse, there has been loss of life.
It was given out last week that, while Com-
monwealth machinery had been provided for
the investigation of forced landings, there
would be no inquiry into the case of the
Southern Cross. Well, there ought to be,
there will have to be, an inquiry. Public
opinion will not be satisfied until a com-
petent tribunal separates the facts from the
fiction with which they have been embroid-
ered by newspaper sensationalism and places
the responsibility on the proper shoulders.
It is now admitted that Ivingsford Smith
and his companions were, for upwards ot
12 days, during which they got regular wire-
less messages from Sydney, within 18 miles
of a mission station to which, as a man who
knows the region told Tue Bulletin, “they
could have crawled in two days.” In point
of fact, a missionary who went a long way
out of his ground reached them in a day
and a half, and started off home again next
morning. The airmen explain that the mis-
sion station wasn’t marked on the maps
they carried, but it was very plainly marked
on the maps in Sydney newspaper ollices.
This is one of the many points that clamor
for inquiry.
The N.S.W. Nation-
alists have put R. W.
D. Weaver into their
Cabinet, with the
Mines and Forests ,
portfolios. Weaver has a
following on the North
Shore, but he will
have to learn that
more is required of a
Minister than ability
to wave flags and wag
a rough tongue in de-
bate. Chaffey becomes
Chief Secretary.
Stevens takes over the
Treasury and helps
the too-amiable But-
tenshaw with Rail-
ways and Tramways.
So there are again 111
salaried Ministers and
an honorary, though
eight salaried Minis-
ters suffice for Vic-
toria.
Acting-Premier
Buttenshaw.
British financier Churchill, viewing the
results of the year to March 31, is able to
(1) take the duty of 4d. per lb. off tea
(whereupon the price has gone down by that
amount), (2) assist local rates to the extent
of £2,500,000, t 3) reduce certain other
taxes and (4) nave a £4,000,000 surplus
after paying the usual bit off the Yankee
war debt. And in Australia seven Treasurers,
Federal and State, are staring at seven
growing deficits and thinking out seven new
taxes to meet the eternal expansion of the
interest bill.
Customs Minister Gullett has placed an
embargo on imports of peanuts. Queensland
and North Australian supplies of that
humble but useful commodity are sufficient
for the Australian market, and dumping
threatened to ruin all that has been accom-
plished. Gullett has done well; and he
should go on with the good work. A sys-
tematic extension of the embargo to the
whole field of superfluous imports would get
Australia out of the worst of its troubles.
The land-selling swindler or go-getter still
awaits effective legislation in N. S. Wales.
It would be a simple matter to make the
hawking of allotments or shares, either from
door to door or per meditim of plausible
agents on the pavement, a crime punishable
by imprisonment and forfeiture of the money,
without regard to the size and details of the
swindle; but it hasn’t been done.
The tinned-meat export trade is a mere
spectre of its old self, the value of exports
in 1926-27 (£335,092) being one-third what
it was before the war. Now the British
Army tender of a million pounds has been
lost bodily to South America because our
price was too dear. Many things tend to
become too dear in this over-loaned and over-
regulated and over-taxed country.
N.S.W. Premier Bavin departs on his holi-
day leaving some matters more unfinished
than they should be. The Child Endowment
business is in a bad state, and another deficit
is admittedly growing, one reason being the
hunger to build impossibly expensive rail-
ways. A £500.000 shortage being fore-
shadowed, the departmental heads were in-
vited to “effect savings,” but they can’t sack
public servants offhand or cut down their
pay, and it is not much use stopping public
works while the Ministry is starting works.
So the. taxpayer will be called upon as usual,
and £500,000 means about another pound
per family of four.
Unless the McPhee-Lee Government (Tas.)
exhibits a good deal more strength and
administrative ability than it has shown
hitherto, the recent floods may set several
Ministerial portfolios awash. No Tas-
manian Government has ever pulled through
a crisis of any magnitude. Nicholls-Prop-
sting-McCall-Lyne (1906-07) formed a com-
bination very much above the average, but
the small-pox outbreak at Launceston upset
their finances and led them to the guillotine.
Propsting is now President of the Leg. Coun-
cil, Nicholls is Chief Justice, Lyne is farm-
ing prosperously near Campbell Town, and
Dr. McCall, for some years the Speck’s most
useful Agent-General, died in harness in the
Cold Country.
The tea duty, which Winston Churchill
has removed as a sop to the now predominant
voter in skirts, dates from Queen Anne’s day.
The British working man -would ten times
rather have had something off the terrific
taxes on beer and spirits. It is the first
stage in the subjection of John Bull to
Johanna B.
Chief Sec. Argyle did not cover himself
with glory over the ghoulish business at the
old Melbourne Gaol. He was so busy ex-
pressing his horror and shoving the blame
on to other departments, which shoved it ou
to others again, that he forgot to take imme-
diate measures to prevent further bone-
pilfering. The consequence was that open
graves, one said to be Deeming’s, were left
unguarded for two more days and three
nights, and became objects of interest to the
morbidly-minded. Even women joined in
the ghastly souvenir-hunting. In the end
as many of the bones as could be were col-
lected and reinterred at Pentridge.
It looks as if the S. Aus. Government will
never hear the last of the unlucky 1016-17
wheat pool. H. G. Robinson, of Melbourne,
owning by transfer sundry wheat certificates,
sued it for negligence in letting myriads of
mice get at the grain. The S.A. Supreme
Court was against him on the law, but the
Privy Council now says that a trans-
feree takes not only the original holder’s
share in the proceeds, but also “the right
to complain of their diminution,” and so
orders the Supreme Court to try the case
on the question of fact: whether Govern-
ment was really negligent about the mice.
Robinson has behind him about 700 other
certificate-holders interested to the extent
of 10 million bushels. The hard-up Butler
Administration will have to find his costs on
the original hearing, and those of the legal
trip to London, which was not made till after
our own High Court had refused leave to
appeal.
The Comintern (Communist International)
has sent out a stirring appeal to sympathis-
ers to make a world welter of May Day.
Soldiers are to attack their “imperialistic”
officers, and the masses of India are in-
structed to rise against their British tyrants.
Another amiable suggestion comes from the
Profintern (Trades-union International) ; it
advises workers to arm on the same date
against “imperial robbers and pirates.” The
Profintern is a branch of the Comintern;
the Pan-Pacific Secretariat, with which the
Australian Council of Trade Unions still re-
mains affiliated, is an offshoot from both.
McPherson will make no attempt to in-
troduce a Redistribution of Seats Bill into
the Vic. Assembly next session; it would
be impossible to frame any legislation on
that subject likely to command a majority.
Hogan’s bill brought about Hogan’s down-
fall. Hogan called the Allan-Peacock-Argyle
scheme gerrymandering, but it helped him
to gain office, if not power; so his kick is
not as hard as he tries to make out. All
parties will have something to say about
remodelling electorates when the election
campaign comes around —in five months at
earliest, or 12 months at latest.
Unless imports are hacked down remorse-
lessly Australia must borrow abroad or burst.
And if it borrows abroad long enough it will
burst just the same. Local borrowing is bad,
yet the interest is spent here in building
industries and paying wages and taxes. But
interest payable abroad does these things for
people abroad, not for us.
Though he nominally settled in England,
like his predecessor, Moore, when he ceased
to be Westralia’s
Agent - General,
J. D. Connolly
spends a lot of
time in Austra-
lia. He made
two visits to
sound Bruce
about a pro-
posed shipping
venture; and he
is back again,
partly to see
how the land
lies for Maltese
immigrants. His
friendship w'ith
Gerald Strick-
land, begun
when that pep-
pery little aris-
tocrat was Gov-
ernor at Perth,
has led him to
J. D. Connolly.
become an unpaid London representa-
tive of the Maltese Government —'Strick-
land’s position as first Minister is also hon-
orary. Westralia found Connolly a very
useful administrator. He still has extensive
interests there.
A Federal shortage of £2,000,000 is now
comfortably assured, though the annual
allowance of £500,000 to S. Australia hasn’t
begun yet, and the Federal contribution to
a paper-money sinking fund, which won’t
help the external debt one iota, isn’t in full
working order. The Federal Treasury had
in 1927 £6,000,000 a year more to pay in
interest than it had in 1920, and of this
£2,900,000 was payable abroad where our
notes don’t pass. With £1,000,000 or so
more going out every year under one head
alone, and no extra income coming m, £
could a child, let alone a full-grown Pag ’
expect save large and increasing deficits.
When they were asked why they’ did
take action against two record-breakers vvn
publicly proclaimed that they bad a% ' eri *? < ,
over 50 m.p.h. between Sydney and *
bourne, the Vic. police said that they pa
nothing on which to base a prosecution.
Similarly, if Bill Sikes announced that he
had cut a person’s throat and that the body
would be found at the address given, there
might be no basis for a prosecution, because
Sikes might be lying. But there would cer-
tainly be grounds for an inquiry.
Sitting Labor mem-
bers of Yic. Assembly
were all picked again
at the pre-selection
ballots in which they
were opposed. There
was some anxiety
about Blackburn at
Clifton Hill, Lemmon
at Williamstown and
Cotter at Richmond,
and, there may be
fresh ballots in one
or more of those
districts. There were
some queer capers on
the losing side at Clif-
ton Ilill, where Black-
burn was pursued by
the pony-racing and
McShortodds m o b.
He is in favor of re-
stricting racing to
Saturdays and holi-
days. If ho can bring
that about, thousands
of toilworn housewives
will bless his name.
Maurice Blackburn,
M.L.A.
The timber-workers' strike against the
very moderate award of the Court has met
a difficulty which was old enough. to be
obvious, only strike leaders never remember
anything. If it is confined to the original
strikers it is too small to make much
trouble even when supplemented by violence.
If it is extended, every extension takes so
many men off the list of strike contributors
and puts them on to the list of claimants
for strike pay. Thanks to coal and other
troubles, the treasury chest was empty to
begin with, and contributors were carrying
a heavy load already. If an actuary had
been available to estimate the probable assets
and liabilities of the campaign in advance
much trouble might have been saved, pro-
vided anyone paid attention to his report.
Dr. J. F. Watson just failed to get a
mandate from the Canberra people to con-
tinue to make things sultry for the official
members of the Federal Capital Commis-
sion and Bruce-Page. Dr. R. M. Alcorn
scored 470 votes to Watson’s 476; Nott. ex-
M.H.R., also a doctor, and Colonel Good-
win, sometime Administrator of the F.C.T.,
finished down the course. The botched legis-
lation enabling the appointment of a Citizens’
Commissioner contains no provision for his
resignation, and the election could probably
be upset on that ground. However, the suc-
cessful medico shares Watson’s hostility to
Butters and Bruce-Page, so Watson is satis-
fied.
Prime Minister Baldwin, in his policy
speech, declared that his Government
wouldn’t float any big loans and manufac-
ture jobs for the unemployed as Lloyd
George, in imitation of Australia, proposes
doing. He sticks to the sound idea of “safe-
guarding” British industries if the nation
will let him, and reducing imports. He was
a better-priced horse before he declared
against loans than afterwards, the opinion
being, for the time anyhow, that the dazzle
of borrowing devices will appeal to that com-
posite elector Sandy ap Bull.
When Justice Piddington, of the N.S.W.
Industrial Commission, speaks severely to
the litigant who isn’t to his liking he is
rather reminiscent of Scroggs and other
giants of the past. On the matter of cloth-
ing costs he addressed the employers’ repre-
sentative firmly:—
Why can’t you be plain and honest about it? You
have in this State the cheapest labor in Australia,
and you want to make it 17s. cheaper. Should the
Commission decide to adhere to the standard of 1926
will your clients support that standard in the case
now before the Commonwealth Arbitration Court?
If you are sincere in your suggestion, etc., etc.
The statement about cheap labor in N.S.W.
is plain enough, whatever else may be mixed.
Yet it is on official record that the average
amount of salaries and wages actually paid
in manufacturing industries makes N.S.W.
labor the dearest in Australia instead of the
cheapest. The figure has risen every year
save one for the last 20 years, and the last
recorded rise was £9 10s. per annum. Then
the super-imposition of the Child Endowment
charge f 2 p.c. on wages) made a sort of
crisis. This doesn’t prove that wages are
too high, but it suggests that when a Judge
becomes excited and begins giving evidence
he should "be sworn first.
TEA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“By abolishing the duty of fourpence a lb. on
tea, the British Chancellor of the Exchequer has
remitted a tax that has been in existence since the
time of Queen Anne and has been as high as
2s. 6d. and even ss. per lb.”
What memories cluster round you? What
emotions !
Since Anne from council unto you would
turn,
Or saintly Wesley paused in his devotions
To censure you with words that bite and
burn,
Or Doctor Johnson swigged you down in
oceans,
Or Cowper gazed upon the hissing urn
And sang your praises in the glowing chants
Most of us bards reserve for stimulants.
In Boston Harbor rugged patriots sank you ;
Down Brick-lane throats all steaming-hot
you poured,
Though Stiggins wouldn’t have vouchsafed
a thank-you
For best Bohea when rum was on the
board;
But, high and lowly, whosoever drank you
Contributed the revenue toward.
To think how much you’ve brought th’
Exchequer in
Makes the imagination reel and spin.
Free tea at last! And now you’ve grasped
the nettle,
Winston, my lad, I wonder if you’ll be
First in the hearts of those who boil the
kettle
And brew the cup that cheers across the
sea?
Whether or no, you’re good Britannic metal,
And here’s a health to you in billy tea!
And may your sturdy commonsenso produce
A hankering to follow suit in Bruce!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
“and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“F.S.G.”: On Easter Monday I picnicked
at Hadspen, an Auburn-like township on
the South Esk, some 10 or 12 miles above
Launceston. After lunch a few of us climbed
along the under structure of the massive old
bridge and carved our names on one of the
tie-beams .below the decking. A week later
I was picking my way among the heaps of
debris that in the interval the great flood
had deposited in one of Launceston’s most
popular parks. Protruding from a mass of
rails, gates, hencoops and driftwood was a
piece of battered quartering with some letter-
ing upon it. Dragging it forth, I found
myself face to face with our carving efforts
of the week before.
* * * *
“Wart”: The flood in the Speck had its
lighter incidents. A country solicitor, one
of the solid-looking family-lawyer type, found
himself just outside of Longford in a soaked
and woeful plight. He knocked at a house
to obtain shelter, and was diffidently bidden
to enter. It was the home of two elderly
maiden ladies, both as tall and thin as
the solicitor was short and stout. After a
whispered conversation, they suggested he
might like to dry his clothes, and while they
LEFT YOU STILL HUNGRY.
SADOE: “Look at that man! He has his eyes over here all the time.”
GRACIE: “Yes, I see them. But eyes are so unsatisfying, aren’t they?”
were drying perhaps he could manage with
one of their Girl Guide uniforms. He ex-
pressed his readiness to wear anything, and
was put into a room with a fire, where the
trappings of a “general” in the Girl Guides
were laid out on a chair. The guest had
hardly climbed into the strange togs before
the police arrived to rush the inmates of
the house to safety. “Hurry up, women
first,” said one of the rescuers, grabbing the
new recruit to the Guides by the arm. He
protested that he wasn’t a woman, and was
left behind while his two hostesses were
bundled off in a car. Then he had the choice
of stopping in the house and risking drown-
ing or seeking safety in the quaintest attire
ever worn by a family lawyer. He chose
the latter, but it isn’t yet safe to talk to
him about the flood.
* * * *
“Triangle”: There was no more harrowing
result of the terrific rains in N.-E. Tas. than
the practical obliteration of the good old
Briseis tin-mine. Men working 200 ft. below
the diverted river found themselves caught in
a deathtrap when the company's big dam
on the Cascade River gave way at 4.30 in
the afternoon. The water thundered _ down
the valley, iu the words of an eyewitness,
“as high as the telegraph-poles.” to its junc-
tion with the Ringarooma, where it swept
away the lower-lying portion of the town
of Derby. As I write it is still not known
how many were drowned. Lower down three
bridges were swept away, and houses, motor-
cars, stables and horses were carried off
in the raging flood. Two hundred feet of
water and sand cover all the mine machinery
and workings, and, since it would cost many
thousands to clear away the debris, and the
company was a poorly-paying proposition, will
probably continue to cover them for all time*.
* * * *
“Sol M.”: A promising and reliable suicide
has been postponed, and may yet be aban-
doned—Wilkins’s submarine or sub-ice expe-
dition to the North Pole. It
looks as hopeless and purpose-
less a venture as could be
imagined, unless a party dived
down an active volcano dress-
ed in asbestos clothing and a
fire-insurance policy. About
nine-tenths of an iceberg lie
under water, and in a shallow
ocean many of them would
rest on the bottom, in which
case the sub-ice explorer would
feel like one stumbling among
the roots of a frozen forest
with a roof on it. The end
of the expedition would doubt-
less be unobtrusive, and the
records left to posterity would
be nil. For years possibly a
watch would be kept at the
other side of the Pole in hope
that the wanderers would bob
up as they had bobbed down.
Then their faded best girls
would marry the other fellows,
and all that remained would
be a legend of a Wandering
Water-Jew. Imaginative
whalers and sealers might re-
port at times that they heard
Wilkins calling from below
even as some bush-poets still
occasionally hear Leichhardt shouting in the
scrub on windy nights.
* * * *
“Exdig”: An extraordinary A.I.F. career
was that of a man who was drowned the
other day; he had enlisted five times. A
product of the Federal training scheme, lie
secured his commission shortly after his
enlistment, but was cashiered for drunken-
ness before embarkation. He enlisted again,
reached Egypt as a sergeant, and was
a captain at the Gallipoli Landing. Then
again he struck trouble, with the usual
result Back in Egypt he rejoined the colors
in time to get the transport to France as
n.c.o. He was wounded at Pozieres, suc-
cumbed to his old failing while still in hos-
pital, was returned to Australia and dis-
charged. A fourth enlistment went wrong
when, on the way to England, he was put
ashore and passed back; but not many
months later he was in camp at Sutton Veny
as a full private. Promotion evidently soon
came his way again, for his obituary notice
mentioned that he served as a captain in
France, and there received the injuries which
led indirectly to his death. Five enlistments
with an actual intention of service—there
were “tourists” in Australia who went from
camp to camp, enlisting under different
names, but always dodged being sent over-
seas —is a record that may well have atoned
for all his failings.
“Caractacus” : It is not always the Aussie-
born who grabs Opportunity by the winkers
as it passes. A new-chum I know let no grass
grow under his welted high-lows when the
moke came his way. He was well and truly
broke, doing laborer’s work in the Outback,
when the bush-telegraph brought word of the
tragic death of a near-by station book-keeper,
Borrowing a hack from a friendly cocky. Chum
made a bee-line for the station and applied
for the vacant job before the squatter quite
realised his man was dead or the body was
cold. Perhaps his hardihood aroused a cer-
tain amount of admiration—anyhow, he got
the job. Eighteen months later he married
Miss .Tumbuck.
* * * *
“Bud G.”: Had there been any wide-
awake bushmen amongst the Turkish cavalry
in Palestine, it is quite probable one Light
Horse regiment would have suddenly found
itself without mounts. It was just
after the Allied troops had passed over
the Sinai desert and entered Palestine that
our 0.C., casting an appreciative eye over
the rich pastures, gave orders that the horses
should be taken out grazing, under the
control of a few mounted troopers. As the
400 steeds tore into the green feed the
troopers reckoned a little game of poker
would help to pass away the time. Lh
charges were forgotten until a cloud ot
dust and a noise of galloping hoofs an-
nounced that the mob had stampeded.
Within a couple of miles were the Turkish
outposts, and the horses, exhilarated with
green feed and freedom, made straight for
the enemy’s line. A couple of shots were
fired at the charging mob by the excited and
probably frightened -Jackos, and they wheeled
back as quickly as they had gone. Half a
dozen troopers paid the penalty for their
negligence next morning. I have often
thought what a different tale there would
have been to tell had a mob of riderless
horses from the Turkish lines galloped within
distance of some of our bush horsemen.
VERDANT TO THE END.
MIGCS (examining Biggs’s family records ): “Your folk live to a green old age,.I see!”
BIGCS: “You’re right, they do. My father was swindled three times after he was seventy.”
“Oran”: A new phase of shoplifting is
giving M.L. drapers a lot of trouble. It
arises from the custom among women ot
doing their late-niglit shopping minus a hat,
and the consequent difficulty of detecting the
lady who enters without headgear and goes
out by another door in an unpaid-for five-
guinea model. In crowded millinery depart-
ments, where all the purchasers are at in-
tervals without hats, the assistants have a
hectic time keeping an eye on customers,
especially as present fashions in hats run
largely to sameness. It is a delicate and
even dangerous matter to approach a shopper
and suggest that what is obviously her only
hat has been purloined. One firm tried it —
once. That was when a palpably ultra-
expensive hat was seen on the head of a
departing lady in a frayed coat, disreput-
able stockings and down-at-heel shoes. After
producing the bill, duly stamped, she threat-
ened proceedings; and they have sagged on
the job ever since.
* * * *
“Veil.”: An outstanding example of the
war’s combative non-combatants (B.
3/4/’29) was the medical officer of a
battalion of the Gordtins. During Fritz’s
advance in 1918 he found himself in
command, every other officer being killed
or disabled, and he led what was left ot
the men very gallantly in an engagement
near St. Quentin. His valor and endurance
—he was severely wounded—would have
earned him a high decoration had not
Geneva rulings been found to stand in the
way of such recognition. Consequently, all
he got out of it was a non-committal bar
to his M.C.
* * * *
“Gelt”: It happened in one of the island
ports where everyone knows everyone else s
business. He was a popular medico; she
was a pretty matron whose lesser half was
often absent from home. But another
admirer, presumably annoyed at being rele-
gated to the background, took a detestable
revenge. He waited for the arrival of the
monthly steamer from Sydney, and then de-
spatched to the lady a case of fine apples
with an unsigned note, quoting the old coup-
let about the benefit to be got from con-
suming one of them a day.
* * * *
“Blue Blood”: An Adelaide paper, the
Mail (13/4/’29), tenders an unusual kind
of apology. Clothing is being collected for
out-of-work families in the city and the
Port, and some ladies of great social ton-
nage were snapped while inspecting it at the
School for Mothers. The paper printed the
photo with this legend: “Grateful \\ omen
Receiving Gifts of Baby Clothing.” Natu-
rally, Right-Thinking people are greatly
shocked ; the rest find it funny.
* * * *
“Dad”: Let me assure “Verri” (B.
3/4/'29) that the M.M. was a highly
esteemed decoration. It had to be earned
bv some very gallant action in face of the
enemy, reported by the C.O. and conclusively
authenticated. I commanded a battalion
right through the campaign of the Austra-
lians in France and Belgium, and know how
very difficult it was to get a few awards of
the M.M. and still more difficult the D.C.M.
for the many splendid exploits performed.
The actual medal was never sent up to the
line, but a neatly printed copy of the
page in Army Orders that contained the
name of the recipient was posted to him,
accompanied by a note of personal congratu-
lation from the army commander. A meri-
torious service medal could be earned away
from the actual fighting zone, but never an
M.M. or a D.C.M.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: Carr Boyd and Hann, two
explorers who have left their names on the
map of the Kimberleys, were of a type that
is extinct nowadays. It was over a quarter
of a century ago I first encountered them.
The pair came together at Laverton, a re-
mote W.A. goldfields settlement, in their
later years, and provided a lot of press copy,
largely because of the intense scorn each
professed for the other’s achievements, let
beyond doubt each man had done good work
in'his day. llann was a Queenslander, an
ex-squatter ruined by bad seasons, who had
taken to the open spaces. There was a yarn
that, once fairly started on an exploring
trip, he would throw off all the habiliments
of civilisation and career through the bush
blackfellow-fashion. The better-known Carr
was a Tasmanian, wlio carried about with
him in a wallet tattered letters from Glad-
stone, Chamberlain and other notables
thanking him for bestowing their names on
mountains and rivers. He was an inveterate
but harmless romancer, like Munchausen.
But he had a sense of humor, whereas his
rival had none. I remember once receiving,
in my editorial capacity, an indignant letter
from the latter because someone had fastened
on him an old goldfields yarn about a man
going into a bar with two small black boys,
ordering drinks for himself and protegees
and saying to the barmaid —he being a guest
at the hotel: “These are mine.” The girl
took the remark to refer to the urchins in-
stead of the drinks, and expressed her aston-
ishment at their darkness. Carr would have
laughed over the chestnut; Hann took it
seriously.
* * * *
“Murkah”: Melbourne, Sydney and Bris-
bane telephone engineers recently held a con-
ference. But there was no travelling done,
except perhaps by tram. The Telegraph
branch was asked for a “channel” between
the three cities, a* microphone and a loud-
speaker were attached to both ends arid the
middle thereof, and proceedings began. The
meeting proceeded as if all were in one room.
A motion moved in Sydney was instantly
seconded in Brisbane, officers elected and so
on. The Telegraph branch debited the ’phone
section with £1 per hour and the meeting
cost £2. The idea could do with a lot of
extension.
* * * *
“H. Remma”: The element of luck neces-
sarily entered into the award of war decora-
tions, though perhaps not to the extent some
recent paragraphs suggest. The C.O. who
liked “writing up” stunts and was ever on
the lookout for material was certain to
secure more decorations for his unit than the
commander who looked upon conspicuous
bravery as a soldier’s duty. And sometimes
a batch of recommendations would be sent
back from headquarters with instructions to
the recommending officer to make a final
selection of one or two —this happened in my
own case. I was quite ignorant of any re-
commendation having been made, but on my
return to Aussie, before I had time to get
into civvies, I met our battalion intelligence
officer, and his first remark was, “Where’s
your ribbon? You got the M.C.” I told
him that was the first I had heard of it, and
he remarked that my name had been included
in a list of five, all considered worthy. The
list had been referred back for selection of
one, and the C.O.’s way out of the difficulty,
perhaps as good as any .other, had been to
put the names in a hat and draw one.
* * * *
“Bob P.”: An ingenious method of aug-
menting the pay envelope recently came to
light in Queensland. A despatch clerk
employed by a Brisbane film house hit upon
the device of liberally coating stamps affixed
to film boxes with a waterproof gum before
despatching them to country picture-shows,
thus preventing the cancelling ink from pene-
trating the paper. By carefully removing
the stamps from the returned boxes and
washing them, he was able to use them
again and to convert the stamp cash to his
own use. But he overdid it at last. A rail-
way official noticed that some of the stamps
were looking unusually pallid, and called in
the C. 1.8. When detectives visited the film
firm’s dispatch-room they found a number of
presumably cancelled stamps in soak, and
the culprit confessed.
DIPLOMATIC RETICENCE,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“My sister and my husband became on very
friendly, even affectionate, terms, but I did not suspect
anything until my husband said that my sister was
an excellent cook.” —Sydney Divorce Court item.
You may kiss your merry cousin or canoodle
with the cook,
Or can take your latest typist for a trip;
Such tilings as these may be explained, how-
ever bad they look,
If you only shun one dreadful, fatal slip.
Should you wish to lull suspicion and to lead
a peaceful life
You must never praise the cooking of her
sister to your wife.
You can take her to the mountains; if
poetic’ly inclined
You can kiss her hands each time you eat
a scone;
Rut by boosting up her cooking you invite
your wife to find
Precisely just how far the thing has gone.
It’s a motto should be treasured to avoid
domestic strife:
You must never praise the cooking of her
sister to your wife.
’Mid the sins beyond forgiveness in the mat-
rimonial list
There is one ’tis most essential you should
note:
Keep your wife blind re the cooking of the
girls that you have kissed,
Never thrust their pies and puddings down
her throat.
For suspicions will grow rampant and
domestic brawls be rife
If you dare to praise the cooking of her
sister to your wife!
N.S.W.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.


“Old Timer”: Apropos the scramble for
Ned Kelly relics at the upturning of the
old Melbourne Gaolyard, I remember when
thi> old Devonshirc-strect Cemetery in Syd-
ney was disturbed and its occupants removed
elsewhere, it was a common thing to
find in the coffins clothing, hob-nailed boots
and a rope still round the neck of the skele-
ton. Hanged men had been buried there
in the days before quicklime came into
fashion, though, for that matter, it is still
disputed in the best professional ghoul circles
whether quicklime really hurries matters
at all.
# * * *
“Gouger”: I don’t think the Turk troubled
overmuch about the tabulating of his dead;
he may have reckoned that some of them,
particularly his colored allies, were better
dead anyway. On Gallipoli, more than on
any other fi’ont, he had every chance of mus-
tering those who had answered the call to
Allah, but I never saw or heard anything
to make me think he did so, even in the
case of those poor devils who lay out with
our own for those long months in No Man’s
Land. The Sinai Desert must hold the dust
of thousands of Turkish “unknown soldiers.”
Abdul fought willingly enough there, but in
the end there was a vast retreat that covered
hundreds of miles. The British buried the
Turkish dead after the attack on the Suez
Canal, but after that the drifting sand
of the desert was the only undertaker.
I have ridden over dead greycoats in the
THE AGE OF INDISCRETION-
“How old is that flapper he’s with?”
“Oh, just in her early nicoteens.”
lonely oases extending from Romani and from
El Katia. and among the dismal sandhills
on the long, dry march to Bir-el-Abd.
Wherever possible,, our chaps buried their
fallen foes, but there were times when we
were too hard pressed to give our own dead
sepulture’.
* * * *
“Hayband”: Stolen books of meal dockets
(B. 30/40/’29) are not the only means by
which swindles can be worked in the
larger eating-places. An even more ingenious
dodge I encountered was for the swindler"
to enter at a busy period, to sit as far
from the cashier’s desk as possible, and to
order something that cost sixpence or nine-
pence. Armed with a ticket to that effect
lie would start for the door. Before reaching
there he would quietly subside into another
chair, and consume the best on the menu,
Of course he paid on the smaller ticket.
The fact that missing dockets were for con-
sidorable amounts showed what was happen-
ing. and attendants were instructed to watch,
Tlie police courts did the rest to make the
scheme unpopular.
“Ducerne Flea”: No need to go to Maori-
land to find roads made and mended with
marble (B. 10/4/’29). Around Angaston
and Macclesfield (S.A.) you may see marble
used not only for roadmaking but for house-
building as well. Although the S.A. marble
is of capital quality, Italian marble can be
landed at Port Adelaide for less than it costs
to market it in the State. Therefore, marble
being as easy to quarry and cut as any other
stone, it goes on to the roads or is dressed
into blocks for building.
* * * *
“Sheelah”; A Tattersall’s sweep was once
responsible for the holding-up of the since-
wrecked Riverina. At the hour scheduled
for her to leave Hobart it was discovered
that a fireman was missing. A lengthy search
located the defaulter at the Ship Hotel blotto
and hilarious. His response to the request
to get himself on board at once was brief
but explicit: “You can tell them that
George Adams has made me a capitalist, too.
I could buy their crimson old tub if * I
wanted to, and I won’t set a foot on her
again.” And he didn’t.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: The Benedictine monas-
teries in W.A. owe their genesis to the poli-
tical upset in Spain in 1835,
which drove out many monks.
Two of them, Dom Serra
and Dom Salvado, arrived at
Perth in 184(5 for the express
purpose of starting a mission
in the North. But the
furthest north in those days
wasn’t far from Perth, and
they drove in their pegs on
a block of fertile land obtain-
ed on the Victoria Plains,
where New Norcia was estab-
lished in 1847. In 1549 Dom
Salvado took two native con-
verts with him to Borne:
they were sent to study at
a monastery before return-
ing. The Drysdale River
Mission is, of course, an off-
shoot and outpost of New
Norcia ; it dates from 1807,
when the parent institution
was raised to the dignity of
an abbey. Bishop Salvado
died as recently as 1902, and
was succeeded in his bisliop-
ric by a Benedictine with the historic name
of Dorn Torres.
# * >!= *
“Darrapinta”: Touching these gypsy
depredators (B. 10/4/’29), an old Scotch-
man who owned the next farm to my dad’s
in S. Aus. had a simple method of heading
them off his property. I was helping him
with his lamb-marking when a grandson
came home from school with news that he
had “rode past a lot of funny-dressed dark
people in covered vans” a couple of miles
down the road. The cocky dropped his knife,
and, muttering something about thieves, ran
down to the gate. There on a clear patch of
ground he arranged two small sticks like a
crooked letter T, carefully measuring the
angles with his fingers, and then returned
to the yard. Ten minutes later a couple
of vans came over the hill and up to the
gate. Several gaudily-dressed women and
two men alighted, but stopped short when
one of them saw the sticks. They jabbered
excitedly for a minute, searched the road for
tracks, and then retreated. The cocky told
us afterwards that wherever these wandering
nuisances went in Scotland they left signs
made of twigs.for the guidance of their kind.
The warning which he had put out meant
“Hurry away—this place is unhealthy.”
The gypsies camped several miles further on.
* * . . * *
“S.T.S.” ; Adelaide is getting thoughtful
about its water supply. Not exactly anxious,
because rain may, and indeed should, come
any day now. But the total fall this year
has been four-fifths of an inch, and the last
two months of 1928 were much the same. All
reservoirs are low; Millbrook, the chief one,
has shrunk till you can see again the village
of that name which was drowned by its
making. If by any chance there should be
such a winter drought as that of 1914, there
are no reserves to draw upon,
* * *
“Bert the Carpenter”; A man who had
learnt the wood-butchering trade inside the
Yatala stockade (S.A.) once assured me
that any prisoner can make a file if he
wants to escape. I was sceptical, but he soon
settled my doubts by dipping some strings
in the gluepot, rolling them in sand, and
letting them dry. “Now watch,” he said,
and I saw him, with a few minutes’ rubbing,
make a groove in a steel bar. He added
that with a dozen of these home-made files
a thick bar could be sawn through in a few
hours. Even if you weren’t employed in the
carpenter’s shop, it seemed, you could always
get one of the blokes there to work a bit of
glue out to you, and with grit from the walls,
wool from your socks, and spittle you could
make all the files you wanted. Blit the
mainspring of a watch was the best file of
all, if you could procure one. It meant
very slow work, but the tiny cut was easily
IF HE DID, WHY DIDN’T HE?
“Gwendoline, I bet I know what you're thinking about!"
“Well, then, why don't you?"
hidden with soap, and the spring itself was
not difficult to hide: it could be smuggled
into your cell inside a bit of tobacco.
'if! * * *
“Maunga”: “Mulgo” (B. 27/3/'29) men-
tions “tram-sick” people and the inadvis-
ability of anyone containing mixed drinks
sitting back on to the motorman. The drinks
needn’t be mixed. Years ago, in the days of
horse-drawn trams in Wellington (M.L.), an
apparently quite-sober old chap used to climb
aboard the car every evening at Lambton
railway station and sit down on the rear
scat with his back to the driver. Half-way
to Newtown he’d be rolling about like an
egg, quietly and contentedly drunk. He was
a much-discussed mystery to other passen-
gers, but I knew his secret. He worked all
day in a brewery, and the joggling tram
unloosed the kick that had been lying quies-
cent in his liquid cargo.
* * * *
“Veritas”: As regards the value of mili-
tary decorations, the M.C.
was the usual award to first-
and second-lieutenants, cap-
tains in fighting units, and
in some cases to first-class
warrant-officers. The D. 5.0.,
when awarded to one-, two,
or three-pip artists, bore a
high value, but for a major
or colonel, if he lasted long
enough and his unit did well,
the same D.S.O. was almost
a certainty. For a private,
lancejack or corporal to get
a D.C.M. a notable deed was
necessary; for a sergeant.it
was sometimes a little easier
and for a warrant-officer
easier still. The luck of
decorations depended on
someone in authority hap-
pening to see the act itself.
Apart from that, many fine
deeds went unrewarded
through the recommendations
being badly written up. The
M M. was the lowest decora-
tion, though only awarded
for bravery under fire. Many,
professed to scorn it, but
this was mainly due to the
Digger’s inveterate habit of
leg-pulling.
“Hamer”: Binks and I came into Martin-
place, Sydney, and kis curiosity was aroused
by the crowd packed round a kiosk. Pushing
our way in, we soon discovered that “Milk
Week” was in full swing. Binks thought-
fully watched the absorption of Dr. Arthur’s
pet tipple through straws from bottles. “A
rattling good idea!” he enthused. “People
should drink more milk! It’s a good food,
and they’re helping the dairying industry,
too” ; and he surveyed the scene again with
entire approval. “It makes me feel thirsty
myself,” he presently remarked. "Suppose
we go somewhere and have a beer?”
sjs # Hs *
“C.Q.” : An attempt to make Clapp’s rail-
ways more attractive was essayed at Ivoroit,
on the Melbourne-Port Fairy fine, recently.
An engine, a truck and a couple of coaches
were drawn up at the platform, and when
the coaches filled up with passengers the
engine moved off. It had run spiritedly to
Illowa, about six miles away, before the
driver and fireman discovered that only the
truck accompanied it. Somebody had for-
gotten to couple up the carriages.
* * * *
“Shep”: Swinging into the entrance of the
Canal at Suez, we passed within 50 yards of
a French cruiser anchored in the channel.
Our ship’s l C.O. was a crank for his own
brand of dVeinline, and as a tribute to the
warship he had us lined up at the “ ’shun”
at boat stations whilst our ensign dipped,
The Frenchmen lined the warship’s rail and
gave us thunderous “Heep, Ileep, Hurras,
Promptly came the order that we couldn’t
reciprocate, but must continue on at the
“ ’shun” till we passed a British warship
lying ahead. The painful silence that fol-
lowed was shattered by bursts of Digger
applause from down aft, while white hats,
shirts and dungaree coats were tossed into
the air. The Adjutant, rushing down to in-
vestigate, found the response had come from
the Diggers in clink, most of them paying the
penalty for breaking leave at Suez. They
reckoned it was worth a few extra days
to answer for the mob.
>!> * * *
“S.T.S.”: An Adelaide paper has published
a two-column letter received from an anony-
mous correspondent, who says he was in
the armed hold-up near the Port Adelaide
smelters in 1902, when the paymasters horse
was shot and the wages bag with £1223 was
taken. The writer states that he got away
to America just afterwards, and did not
come back for 20 years. It/ is recalled that
two known bad characters, Lawson and
Flynn (defended by Paris Nesbit, K.C., and
A. J. McLachlan), were convicted of the
crime before Chief Justice Way, and that
Lawson broke out in a fierce cry to the
police, “Flynn is innocent, arid you know it!”
Lawson has long been dead. Flynn was re-
leased in time to serve in the war, and.
though always protesting his innocence of
the old crime, has been “in trouble” again
since. The confession of the Unknown has
a strong look of genuineness.
* * * $
“Pabellco” : Familiarity with other things
than electrical wiring and switches (B.
3/4/’29) soon leads to contempt of risks. In
my mining days, the first time I read the
safety regulations pasted up in all fracteur-
magazines, chills ran up and down my spine
and I faithfully observed every single rule,
even to emptying pockets, removing boots,
and not even letting the metal in a set of
store-teeth rattle. A wooden or copper tool
for raising case-lids was used, and the case
itself was handled only in the ante-chamber
of the magazine. “Good Lord!” was the
amazed comment of the boss when I ex-
plained why I had taken so long to obtain
a small packet of gelignite. Within a week
I was, like all the rest, flogging the tops off
cases with the heel of a steel tomahawk and
cantering down hillsides with enough frac-
teur stowed in my clothes to destroy a vil-
lage !
* Me * *
“Wang”: Some of our Melbourne thieves
lack nothing in thoroughness. The other
night a policeman patrolling a city suburb
was startled to see a man emerge from the
shadows absolutely naked. The Law threw
his overcoat around the shivering wretch
and escorted him to the police station, where
he unfolded his tale of tribulation. He was
a country man down for a holiday, and on
the previous afternoon had got on a drink-
ing bout with two strangers he met in a
hotel. The day of joy ended with his false
friends leaving him to sleep off his debauch
in the open. Some hours later he woke up
on a bank of the placid Yarra to find his
companions gone, along with all his portable
property, including every stitch of clothing.
Even his false teeth had disappeared.
* * * «
"Strict Veg.” : It is refreshing to see that
the idiotic taboo on the discussion of sex
is being broken by the persons who are most
affected by its consequences. A series of
lectures is being given in Melbourne by Prof.
Woodruff under the auspices of the Sunday
Discussion Group of the Y.M.C.A. and
Y.W.C.A. on such subjects as “The Evolu-
tion of Sex,” “The Social Aspects of Sex”
and so forth. As a corollary, the junior
teachers’ branch of the Vic. Teachers’ Union
and the Y.M.C.A. staged a public debate on
companionate marriage and birth-control.
Some newspapers exhibited pained surprise
that girls and boys of 18 or thereabouts
should listen to the discussion of such here-
sies instead of confining their mental pabu-
lum to the flapdoodle about famous cricket-
ers and film stars, with which the said organs
of enlightenment fill their pages. But if
these subieets concern anybody they surely
concern those on the threshold of marriage
as much as those who have learnt about it
by often unfortunate experience.
A FIND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Credit is being claimed for Doctor Bradfield as
the real designer of the Sydney Cenotaph as well
as the Harbor Bridge and City Railway.”
I watched his face with animation glow
Over a stately pile, a poem in stones —
Old Sydney town has still a few to show—
That might have been the work of Inigo
Whose other name was Jones.
Artist or architect? He must be one
Or other, and I speculated which.
Ilis lips, I fancied, framed a benison
On walls wherefrom the mullioned windows
shone
Flooded in sunlight rich.
“Those Gothic lines,” I ventured, “must
recall
To you”—and courteously raised my
hat—
“ Some sacred edifice or storied hall
Across the seas.” He said that wasn’t all.
“There’s more in it than that.”
“Your poet soul,” I said, “I’ll bet a quid,
Finds symmetry and grace together blent,
Beauty enshrined those gables tall amid.”
He candidly admitted that it did,
At least to some extent.
“But something more than Art that seems to
speak
Assures me that the thing whereon I gaze
Is matchless, sui generis, unique....
Eureka!" Thus he ceased, in accents weak,
“Eureka! Spare me days!”
“What have you found?” lie turned from
his survey
And fixed two eyes like Cortez owned on
mine.
“T’vo found,” lie said, “this memorable day,
One famous Sydney structure, anyway,
Doc. Bradfield didn’t design !”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Comraonweahh.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel, Sydney."
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
oiSm I
umss
Extra heavily silver-plated Warmer, with two lamps.
Size of aluminium plate, 18in. x 9in.
Price, £6/6/-
THE LIFE OF “Fx & R” PLATE
has yet to be determined. Specimens that were sold over 30
years ago are still in daily use without a sign of deterioration.
“Fx & R” plate is honest all through, and can be absolutely relied
upon for practically lifetime service.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
plain figures.
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
cash only.
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for ft or Only. European Plan.
Dining la Carte
STRICTLY FTRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
ra ji far?:
PSr-S
Address Manager—
ROW ES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The affair of Kingsford Smith and his
companions, which had serio-comic touches,
closed in stark tragedy. A Qantas ’plane,
piloted by L. J. Brain, came upon the Kooka-
burra, 12 days out from Sydney, in desert
•country about half-way between Alice
Springs and Wyndham; the ’plane was
down, and under portion of it was a black-
ened body. Of the dead man’s companion
there was no sign. The Queensland airman
flew back to Wave Hill with his story—the
saddest in the history of aviation in this or
any other country. The whole circumstances
of the Southern Cross flight, its failure and
the protracted silence of its crew demand
now more than ever a searching inquiry.
Dr. Chas. E. Fenner, the scholarly Super-
intendent of Technical Education in S. Aus.,
has been awarded the Syme prize, founded by
the Age’s celebrated David at Melbourne
Uni. in 1904, for original scientific research.
Previous winners
include Prof. T.
Harvey Johnston,
the pessimistic
Griffith Taylor, Dr.
Georgina Sweet
and Dr. O. W.
Tiegs. The scien-
tific research work
of Prof. Walter
Howchin, S. Aus-
tralia’s eminent
geologist, has also
been recognised—
he has added the
Joseph Yerco
medal awarded by
the Royal Society
of S. Aus. to his
collection. How-
chin, still going
strong at 84, won
the Clarke mem-
orial medal in
1907. and the
Mueller medal in
3913.
DR. C. E.
FENNER, Super-
intendent of
Technical Educa-
tion in South
Australia.
Keith Anderson, pilot of the Kookaburra,
saw war service with the R.A.F., after which
he was one of Brearley’s men in Westralian
Airways. Anderson and Bob Hitchcock, his
companion on the Kookaburra, flew round
Australia for the George Bond concern in
1927. In the early stages of preparation
for Kingsford Smith’s trans-Pacific flight
Anderson was associated with the venture,
but later dropped out, in circumstances that
later were the cause of litigation. Any per-
sonal ill-feeling on the part of Anderson was
set aside when no news could be got of his
old comrades, and he and his equally-heroic
pal at once volunteered for the desperate
venture that ended so disastrously.
Wearing the glossy belltopper which was
the badge of affluent l’espectability in other
years, George Judah Cohen, who will be 87
on Saturday, April 27, still does his rounds
of directors’ meetings. He combines great
wealth with great charity. Decades ago
an uncle, of Liverpool, left his fortune to
George Judah Cohen and another nephew.
They turned it into a trust for charitable
purposes in the north of England. The gift
was worth half a million even then.
There have been few better-known figures
in Perth this last quarter of a century than
Archbishop Riley. The rather rugged-look-
ing cleric, a native of Birmingham and a
graduate of Cains, Cambridge, arrived in
1894 as Bishop and was raised to the higher
dignity 20 years later. In his earlier days
lie travelled largely over his vast diocese
and made friends wherever he went. Earnest,
unaffected and essentially human, he was in
the forefront of every social and educational
movement, like his close friend the late Win-
throp Hackett, of the West Australian.
During the war no prelate in Australia
worked more strenuously for the cause and
for the soldiers; he was Chaplain-General of
the A.1.F., paid more than one visit to the
Front and was on a boat that was torpedoed
in the Mediterranean. The Archbishop is
75 next month, and retires in July. Good
wishes will follow him wherever he goes.
Anthony St. Ledger, who died in Mel-
bourne last week, aged 71, was one of the
Senators sent from Queensland to the Com-
monwealth Parliament in 1900. That was
the election at which ex-Premier Andy Daw-
son ran against the Labor ticket, and, there
being no preferential voting then, the Liberal
three got in on a minority vote. St. Ledger was
a lawyer and had been a schoolmaster. After
his defeat in 1913 he took up permanent
residence in Melbourne, where he haunted
the Parliamentary library before the flit; to
Canberra. He was an industrious contribu-
tor to The Bulletin.
Every man who enlisted in the A.I.F.
from the Shelford (Geelong) district carried
a gold watch away with him. This was
the gift of Commander John Biddleeombe,
a local pastoralist, who himself offered his
services to the Navy Department. Wool-
brokers at Geelong flew their flags at half-
mast for his passing at 60 the other day.
Gone to England on a health visit, Dr.
Ivrakowsky, a cultured Russian of the old
school, who settled in Adelaide before the
war and married a local girl. She, too, is a
fully-qualified medico, and both are going to
combine their holiday with further study in
London —he at “Bart’s” and Dr. Christina
at the Women’s Hospital.
Another of those physical wrecks from
North Australia turned up in Brisbane the
other day in the person of Alex. Kennedy,
aged 94. He was going back to Cloncurry
to be ruined by the' climate afresh, and was
the Qantas co.’s first passenger on the new
airway from Brisbane to Charleville, whence
the line turns north to the Gulf country.
It is a proud boast of this victim of the tro-
pics that he was the first passenger to fly
in a Qantas ’plane when the service opened
in 1922.
S. M. Herald credited John Gale, the
patriarch of Queanbeyan (N.S.WQ, with
having celebrated his 99th birthday on April
17, and other papers made it his 100th.
Fred Johns, in his “Who’s Who in Aus-
tralia,” says the old journalist was born in
1831. As usual. Johns is right; confirma-
tion is supplied by the Queanbeyan Age, the
Gale family paper.
Francis Davison, of Mt. Gambier (S.A.),
believed to be Australia’s oldest law-
yer, was 90 on April 11. He reached
S. Aus. as an infant, and was admitted
as a barrister and solicitor in 1862.
The veteran walks daily to his office,
a distance of three-quarters of a mile, and
home to his midday meal, keeping the re-
spectable office hours of 10 a.m. to 4 p.nu
He still chops for the household fires, and
finds his carpenter’s bench a useful liohby.
A son is in partnership with him; another
fell on Gallipoli shortly after the Landing.
Australia lost one of its most famous sur-
geons when the knighted George Adlington
Syme died in Melbourne at the week-end.
A nephew of the great David Syme, of the
Age, he distinguished himself at Melbourne
Uni., and was R.M.O. at Melbourne Hospi-
tal when he was 22. During subsequent
years he was editor of the Medical Journal,
chairman of the Federal committee of the
8.M.A., lieut.-col. in the A.1.F., president of
the Australasian Medical Congress and
director-general of the Australasian College
of Surgeons. 'A seizure carried him off in
his 70th year.
N. S. Wales commercial travellers are
mourning two of their best-known and best-
liked figures: Charlie Simpson, president of
the C.T.A., and George Wright, past-presi-
dent. Death came to both on Sunday, with-
out warning in Wright’s case; his successor
had been ill since Easter. Simpson travelled
for Mitchells, the wholesale grocers; Wright
was general manager for Dewars.
The first tourist to arrive in Australia
with an aeroplane is Captain Murray, of
Singapore, who landed at Darwin by steamer
with his wife and his Moth. The machine
having been overhauled, the interesting pair
started to fly south. The ’plane was dam-
aged in a forced landing at Warlock, and the
tourists decided to go on by car; but the
event is a presage of the time when flying
visitors from overseas will become a common-
place.
“Bouragi”: Mention of John Macdonald,
for many years head gaoler and superinten-
dent of works at Port Moresby (B.
30/4/’29), recalls my first meeting with him.
1 was aboard the Merrie England, just enter-
ing the harbor; a
Colonial Office
Governor was also
on the passenger-
list. As we made
the anchorage, a
salute of 11 guns
boomed out. Sur-
prised at the cere-
monial, no less
than at the pecu-
liar timbre, of the
guns, I set afoot
inquiries, and
found that John,
having no artil-
lery, exploded
dynamite detona-
tors in empty
kerosene - tins to
satisfy his Ex., a
stickler for the
proprieties. It was
a most satisfactory
noise, and even a
Chinese mandarin
would have felt
flattered.
MONASH, the
greatest Digger of
them all.
Before he entered Commonwealth politics
little Teddy Needham was M.L.A. for Fre-
mantle, and he proposes to fill in time till
the next Senate election by becoming M.L.A.
for Perth. Needham is well liked, and a
slice of Labor territory has been added to
Perth in the redistribution of seats; even
so, he will have liis work cut out to Shift
Harry Mann. Mann was a detective before
he turned politician, and there have been
few smarter sleuths in Australia. Scot-
land Yard made a fuss of him when he
visited London—it knew all about his work
in the cases of Martha Rendall, the poisoner,
and of Hagen and his colored associates in
the murder of an illicit pearl-buyer at
Broome. Farming is Mann’s hobby, and he
has found it profitable.
Before he plunged into union organisa-
tion, Havelock Wilson, just dead, spent some
time on the Australian coast; he was cook
on a coal boat. He had a rough childhood;
he sold papers in the street at the age of
six to help a widowed mother, and worked
in a printing office before he went to sea—
and he was only 12 then. The British
National Union of Seamen, of which he was
president for 35 years, is his monument. The
indomitable fellow was 18 years in Parlia-
ment, stood out as a patriotic figure during
the war, and died at 70 in harness—Which
is the way he would have chosen to die.
The Open Forum is an organisation re-
cently started in Melbourne, with Black-
burn, M.L.A., as president. It meets on
Sunday nights and aims at providing a plat-
form for every shade of opinion. Laborers
rub shoulders with capitalists in the audi-
ence. E. C. Dyason, the chairman, directs
the whirlwind of debate by means _of what
he calls a “dialectical robot.” It is a sort
of revolving traffic signal with the words
“Stop,” “Go,” “Caution” and “Side-track”
printed on it. Dyason was a Bendigo min-
ing magnate, and is one of the most broad-
minded men in Melbourne.
And still another Bulletin songster gets
into covers. C. H. Winter, who, as “River-
ina,” has covered acres of paper with good
verse about his far home country and its
bush (for years he has been living in Maori-
land), will have a volume out within a few
weeks. The. New Century Press (Sydney)
will publish it.
Captain A. E. Booth, who passed over in
Melbourne the other day, was the best-
known seaman in Victoria. For 37 years
he had convoyed happy excursionists across
the calm waters of Port Phillip in the Wee-
roona, the Ilygeia and the Ozone. Before
joining Bay Steamers, Ltd., he had sailed
into nearly every seaport in the world.
Had H. T. Vickers, secretary to the Vic.
Premier, stayed on the press he would pro-
bably have fared better than he has done in
the 'Public Service; after 41 years spent
mainly in the Premier’s office, he is drawing
only £l2 a week. He is just on 63. It is
doubtful whether he will stay on till he is
65, as there does not seem to be any hope
of his going any higher, and his health is
not robust. He has enough hobbies to keep
him going when he retires. As a kid he
worked on a Bendigo evening paper which
valued itself at a ha’penny. Perhaps it
wasn’t worth more; but, anyhow, Harcourt,
the boss, taught young fellows how to work.
W. G. Higgs, who was Treasurer when
Hughes’s Ministry was Labor, has emerged
from his retirement in Melbourne as head
of an association for the welfare of -.he
mentally afflicted. He lias been out of
politics for six years, but was chairman of
the 3925-26 Royal Commission that inves-
tigated the wrongs of Westralia. Wingham
(N.S.W.) claims Higgs as a son; he is in
his 68th year.
Ex-Premier Lawson (Vic.), who will be-
come a Senator on July 1, trundles about
Castlemaine occasionally on a push-hike of
an out-of-date pattern. He is probably the
only former head of a Vic. Government
above ground who uses this means of loco-
motion nowadays. No one could imagine
Bowser, I’rendergast, Allan or Hogan
cycling. Thirty years ago, when he was
made P.M.G., Watt was a bit of a speedster
on his machine, and Irvine was pretty good
a little earlier. Deakin, when Common-
wealth Attorney-General under Barton,
hiked to his office now and then, and once
nearly knocked down a political scribe.
Father Dew, of Melbourne, who, after
serving for most of his life with the Com-
monwealth and other banks, has just been
ordained a Catholic priest, can claim to
have established, with his family, what is
probably a world’s record. All his four
children are either priests or nuns. But
there are both British and French families
that run him close. The mother of Lord
Lovat, the wealthy Scotch peer who was in
Australia the other day, is a nun in the
Visitation Convent, near London, and his
sister is a St. Vincent dc Paul nun. An-
other Scot, the Marquess of Lothian, who
has an Australian kinsman in the person of
the W.A. Governor’s private secretary, has
a host of relatives in R.C. holy orders. Two
cousins, the offspring of Lord Walter Talbot,
are a priest and a nun respectively, and the
two daughters of Lord Mark Kerr, another
uncle, are nuns. The Catholic brand? of
the ancient Vaughan family (Lords of the
Manors of Ruardean and Welsh Bicknor)
would have died out generations ago but for
an agreement that its head should always
enter the army. At the end of last century
Major Vaughan, of the 7th D.G.’s, could
point to an uncle who Avas a cardinal, two
more who were priests, and four aunts w r lio
w’ere nuns.
Sir Charles Fergusson, Governor-General
of Maoriland, is a descendant of a Scottish
Judge who combined with a great deal of
learning a capacity to drink most of his con-
temporaries under the table. The tribute of
this Fergusson to
the humanising and
mellowing effects of
whusky is a cher-
ished legend of the
Scottish Bar. A
man pleaded guilty
to killing a friend
in a drunken quar-
rel. “Gentlemen of
the jury,” said the
Judge severely,
“the accused puts
forward a sorry
plea. If he would
murder his bosom
friend when drunk, |
what would he do
sober?”
NORRIS BELL,
retiring Common-
wealth Railways
Commissioner.
The Commissioners of Inland Revenue
estimate that there are between 500 and 600
millionaires in Britain. Many of them are
multi-millionaires. The Marquis of Bute,
one of the best known of the R.C. peers,
has an income of over £200,000 p.a.; his
Cardiff property alone is worth over
£7,000,000. Lord Howard de Walden sold
a small part of his West-End-of-London
estate for £4,000,000. The two Joel brothers
are worth over £20,000,000 apiece, and Sir
Philip Sassoon and Bernhard Baron, the
tobacco magnate, are in the same class. But
the wealthiest man in England, potentially if
not actually, is the Duke of Westminster,
who owns much of Belgravia and part of
Mayfair. This now-priceless area comes to
him from an ancestress whose father grazed
cows on it, and sold their milk to the
fashionable people who frequented the banks
of the river Fleet—now the Fleet sewer.
ANZAC DAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O you who love
Music and laughter and the rhythmic beat
Of dancing feet,
Remember us, the Dead, whose shadows
rove
Across the bare hills of Gallipoli
And by the unresting sea.
And if you still remember us indeed,
Pity us not; of tears we have no need,
Being past Earth’s joy and sorrow.
For us the yesterdays are as the morrow,
And the return of spring
Sets no pulse quivering.
We are the Dead who did not fear to die;
Our flesh is dust,
And on those desolate hills our weapons
rust,
Yet are we one
With that primeval force beyond the sky,
That moves the sun.
And as before a shrine
Tend the undying flame of high endeavor
Kindled by us to be extinguished never,
And on the altars of your hearts outspread
The feast of sacramental bread
And wine.
O break the bread of fellowship and hold
The cup of love to the parched lips of
them,
Crowned with Pain’s diadem,
Our comrades still on earth who live and
languish,
And hunger know and anguish,
And who grow old.
N.s.w.
DORA WILCOX.


ẃ
When you face a problem
outside your personal experience,—.
that’s where the Alexander Hamilton
Institute comes in!
We invite you to send for this
little booklet, which will tell you all
the details regarding the Alexander
Hamilton Institute. It will cost you
nothing and may mean a great deal
to you in the months to come.
Alexander Hamilton Institute
ix CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY, n.s.w. b 4
“Pioneer” Means Dependable Power Transmission,
ẅ
What are your most difficult belting problems? Are
they heavy, gruelling main drives where the belt must
withstand the constant strain of transmitting hundreds
of horse-power day in and day out, or light, high-
speed drives where extreme accuracy is essential, to
minimise vibration and slippage?
Whatever your problems may be you will find
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
absolutely dependable under all conditions of service. Our 70 years of belting
experience are at your disposal in helping to solve your particular problems.
We know working conditions,
J. C. LUDOWICI (Si SON, LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, Sydney.
Pioneer Tanners and Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 20-26 Queen’s
Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Iloey Fry, Ltd., Edward
Street, Brisbane;
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell & Sons,
Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards & Upton,
Auckland.
Patterson tfc Barr, Ltd., Dunedin.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Bank of Adelaide.
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 71,355 10 p.c. s= 60,000 21,855 l - r7 roa
Voted to Provident Fund, £ 10,000 ) J
1919.. 69,349 10 p.c. = 50,000 10,349 ) koo 077
Written off premises, £3OOO .. j
1920 .. 87,694 10 p.c. = 50,000 37,694 ( e r7l
Written off premises, £5OOO . . J ’
1921 .. 93,108 10 p.c. = 02,500 30,608 7Q
Written off premises, £5OOO .. ( 0 ’
1922 .. 92,633 10 p.c. = 62,500 30,133 672,312
Premiums on new shares, £ 50,000 722,312
1923.. 94,889 10 p.e. = 07,500 27,389 749,701
1924.. 115.823 10 „ „ 87,500 28,323 778,024
1926.. 117,217 10 „ „ 87,500 29,717 807,741
1926 .. 104,733 10 „ „ 87,500 17,233 82L974
Premiums on new shares, £50,000 874,074
1927.. 104,644 10 p.c. = 89,781 14,853 889,827
Premiums on new shares, £lOO,OOO 989,827
1928.. 128,637 10 p.c. = 115,000 13,637 1,003,464
1929.. 145,410 10 ~,,125,000 20,410 1,023,874
Last year a branch was opened in Brisbane;
there are others at Melbourne, Sydney and
Perth, but the bank's chief field is its home
State, where it gathers over 91 p.c. of its
deposits and makes more than 86 p.c. of its
advances.
For many years prior to 1910 paid capital
was steady at £400,000; then it stood at the
half-million mark until 1020, when another
£1 per share, making them paid to £5 each,
was got in, raising the total on the register
to £625,000. Since then the figure has been
exactly doubled by three new issues, which
also brought in £200,000 of premium money.
That is to say, though the dividend is 10
p.c.. half the capital is costing the bank only
a shade over 7i p.c.
There has been a pretty consistent decline
in the earning power of capital over the last
nine years. During 1928, however, this drift
was arrested, notwithstanding a lighter wool
clip and easier market, and notwithstanding
also that the S. Aus. wheat yield was about
2,000,000 bushels short of the average for
the last seven years, with prices also down.
The £145,410 of profit shown was 11.6 p.c.
on average capital, and that was preceded
by 11.1, 11.6, 11.9, 13.4. 13.2. 14, 14.8 and
14.9 p.c. back to 1921. The figures, by the
way, make it plain that the premiums
charged on recent new share issues have
been no more than the needs of the case
called for. One factor contributing to the
poorer showing has been the steady inflow of
new capital. Also the demands of the tax-
gatherer and mounting costs have bitten into
earnings, and there are not the pickings in
the exchange business that there used to be.
In the published accounts profits are
written after paying exes, and making all
allowances considered necessary. Maybe the
co. is building up inner reserves; but there
is nothing to indicate that much has been
done in the way of furtively writing down
assets. When the board has made special
cuts in the book value of premises it appears
to have mentioned the fact, as it did during
the three years to 1921. When it has added
to them, all or a very great part of the cost
has been added to the book item ; in other
words, has been charged up to capital. Thus,
premises have been bought in Perth and
Sydney during the last few years, and the
book item has grown by £154,865.
Trade and other movements are reflected
in this comparison :
1921. 1925. 1928. 1929.
Notes .. £7,306 £6,887 £6,755 £6,713
Bills, etc. 866,054 463,309 727,958 633,075
Deposits 5,984,597 6,317,889 6,084,129 6,177,592
Liquid
assets.. 3,303,919 3,805,303 3,131,547 2,857,214
Advances 4,689,898 4,436,196 5,655,750 5,949,107
Premises,
etc. .. 162,569 273,076 347,509 347,434
For the most part the period covered has
been one of increasing prosperity, partly
real and partly artificial. Lavish Govern-
ment borrowing, free spending and heavy
imports, together with a rapid expansion of
credit buying, set up a strong demand for
money, and advances stepped along briskly,
far outpacing the growth in deposits. For
the latter there lias not only been keen com-
petition amongst the banks themselves, but
a succession of new Government loans and
debenture and share issues by public and
commercial bodies mopped up much of the
available cash. Thus at the close of last
accounts the Adelaide was holding £140,297
less of deposits than it did four yeai's earlier,
and there is now £275,000 more capital to
feed than there was then. At March 31
liabilities to the public totalled £6,817,380,
of which 41.8 p.c. as against 46 p.c. qt the
previous balance was held liquid. Advances
had mounted to 97.2 p.c. of deposits as
against 92.9, 51.3 and 71.6 p.c. at each of
the three preceding balances. However, for
every £1 of its own funds the bank was
holding approximately only £3 of the pub-
lic’s money, and that is a very strong posi-
tion. More deposits are obviously needed.
Under ordinary conditions the bank's strong
position would command them.
The market prices the £5 shares at £lO
4s. After allowing for the final div. the
return at that figure is a minute fraction
under 5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The
visible backing amounts to £9 Is. lid. in net
tangibles.
City Electric Light Co. (Brisbane).
Orel. Pref. Total Re-
Jan., Profits. l)iv. Div. Div. serves.
££ * £
1918.. 38,378 10 p.c. 6 p.c. 31,508 2,974
1919.. 43,054 10 „ 6 „ 35,383 10,013
1920.. 57,284 10 „ 0 „ 42,503 25,420
Two prefs.
1921.. 02,204 10 p.c. 0&7 p.c. 58,234 29,390
1922.. 99,388 10 „G&7„ 77,431 61,303
1923.. 113,270 10 „G&7„ 90,898 73.725
1924.. 132,887 10 „0&7„ 100,392 100,220
1925.. 150,200 10 „0k 7 ~ 100,102 150,313
1920.. 190,078 10 „0& 7 ~ 104.823 235,573
1927.. 217,201 10 „0&7„ 115,714 337,120
1928.. 214,479 10 „0& 7 „ 117,273 434,320
1929.. 229,322 10 ~ 0k 7 „ 120,303 543,845
This co. supplies Brisbane and its suburbs
with electric light and power. Careful man-
agement and a consistently growing demand
for current have sent profits along in fine
style, and the widening margin between
earnings and distributions gives the 10 p.c.
div. a very comfortable appearance. After
attending to the prefs.—there are 20,000 6
per cents, and 125,000 7 per cents. —the
balance of last year's profit was 18.7 p.c.
on average ord. capital, including calls paid
in advance (£66,425 at Jan. 81), compared
with 17.9 p.c. in the previous term. That
is counting as profit unexplained additions to
the renewals, replacements and contingencies
fund. Last year £68,899, or £24,944 less
than in the previous term, was so put aside,
making the pile £522,374 at Jan. 31. Other
accumulations include the reserve fund,
£36,735; dividend equalisation fund, £3000;
franchise purchase sinking fund, £43,920;
balance of p. and 1. account. £39. The lot
less the purchase account (£62,723) makes
the £543,345 of reserves shown in the table.
The co. operates under nine Ordcrs-in-
Council, each covering a definite area, and,
although the statutory limits of its field are
not likely to be widened at present, con-
tinued expansion of the business can be ex-
pected. Over the last eight years paid capi-
tal has more than doubled by new share
issues at par, thus reaching £1,344,637 dt
Jan. 31. For the 12 months to that date
shareholders were called upon for an extra
£59,427, and there was then another £53,589
at call. Appearances are that the board
could lift the ord. div. with comfort, but the
co. operates a public utility, and there is
always the possibility that anything more
than 10 p.c., or bonus issues, might bring
down legislation to control dividends.
Three years ago the Brisbane City Coun-
cil wanted to buy the business for £1,500,000,
but the offer was turned down because the
plant alone (then in the books at £1,507,741)
was considered to be worth approximately
£200,000 more than that. It is obvious,
therefore, that up to that point depreciation
had not been neglected, and it is unlikely
that old habits have been abandoned since.
The Council, which has a statutory purchase
option over the various franchises as they
fall in, is meantime restricted to supplying
current from its own power-house at New
Farm to municipal institutions. The most
important of the co.’s franchises expires in
1940, when the whole of its undertaking may
be resumed without payment for goodwill.
A couple of years ago the co.'s new power-
house at Bulimba came into commission, and
a contract for the supply of current to the
Tramways was secured. Last year £134,321
was added to the•book value of the fixed
assets as against an increase of only £46,146
in the previous term, and that looks encour-
aging for future earnings. Here is the posi-
tion as balance-sheet figures disclose it:—-
1921. 1928. 1929.
Capital .. .. £740,048 £1,285,210 £1,344,037
Liabilities .. .. 42,220 107,247 111,226
Property, plant, mains,
etc. .. .. 769,184 1,737,983 1,872,304
Cash, public securities,
etc. .. . . 27,629 89,814 137,225
Book debts, etc. . . 47,869 58,131 51,345
Purchase account . , 59,085 62,723 62,723
During the year only £3979 was added to
the amount coming to creditors; book debts
were down £6786, and cash and public
securities were up £47,411. Thus the more
or less liquid surplus (£77,344) was £36,646
stronger than at the previous balance. To
put it in another way, four-fifths of the
year’s capital outlay was paid for with
money earned during the term.
The prefs. arc preferential as to dividend
only. They rank equally with the ords. in
the distribution of assets only after the de-
duction of reserved profits, which are con-
sidered the exclusive property of the ords.
The 6 per cents, are in demand at 18s., and
the 7 per cents, at 21s. 6d. At those prices
the return is 6.6 p.c. and 6.5 p.c. respectively.
For the ords., which have a net tangible
backing of 31s. sd. per f.p. share, all of it
in plant, etc., 28s. is paid. The return at
that figure is 7.1 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
Metropolitan Life.
Ordinary Department.
Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Funds.
£ t £ £ £
Jj>l3.. 16,746 3,572 6,063 7,111 49,610
1916.. 20,650 5,060 5,044 10,546 76,692
1918.. 25,840 6,932 6,636 12,372 100,294
1920.. 37,259 7,198 8,915 21,146 136,622
Profit on sale of property, £8500.. 145,122
1921.. 41.826 7,238 9,573 25,015 170,137
1922.. 46,868 9,947 11,431 25.490 195,627
Profit from sale of assets, £278 .. 195,905
1923.. 52,878 12 531 15,092 25,255 221,160
Profit from sale of assets, £407.. 221,567
1924.. 60,367 13,921 13,677 32,769 254,336
1925.. 69,425 12,350 15,018 42,057 296,393
1926.. 78,071 14,524 21,365 42,182 338,575
Staff Provident Fund, £lOOO .. 337,575
1927.. 86,733 21,195 16,919 48,619 386,194
1928.. 94,783 20,066 18,058 56,659 442,853
"Includes divs. to shareholders: 1918, £458-
1923, £3708; 1926, £5208.
Industrial Department.
Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1913.. 31,004 8,880 19,208 2,916 32,891
1916.. 44,142 11,147 23,711 9,284 52,226
1918.. 55.654 18,538 28,858 8,258 70.005
1920.. 70,465 13,170 35,479 21,816 105,116
Profit on sale of property, £15,4.(7.. 120,. 53
1921.. 80,298 18,096 39,166 23,016 143,569
Written oil', .6 3437 14 0,132
1922.. 88.556 22,326 41.795 24,435 164,507
Profit from sale of assets, £278 .. 164,845
1923.. 99,324 24,426 49,180 25,718 190,563
Profit from sale of assets, £4OB .. 190,971
1924.. 111,094 19,210 54,171 37,713 228,084
192:>.. 125,012 27,136 59,411 38,405 267,149
1926.. 136,445 31,240 68,811 36,394 303,543
Profit from sale of assets, £2023.. 305,566
Stair Provident Fund, £4OOO .. 301,506
1927.. 148,553 35,920 71,083 40,980 342,566
1928.. 160,359 38,179 74,212 47,968 390,534
Includes divs. to shareholders; 1922, £888;
1923, £1480; 1924, £1906; 1925, £3473 ;
1926, £7500; 1927, £7500; 1928, £7500.
This is the 33-year-old Australian Metro-
politan Life Assurance Co., which after
nearly 30 years’ wanderings took off its coat
and set to work to build up its impoverished
funds. It now lias a profitable little busi-
ness scattered over the three Eastern States
and S. Aus. As late as 1917 the assurance
funds were £8538 short of the liabilities
under policies; five years later the actuary
figured the combined surplus in the two
departments at £32,856, and in 1925 at
£09,393. Since then progress has continued
along sound lines, and for the three years
to Dec. 31 last the surplus was £86,880.
That was after transferring £20,000 to the
reser Y*> (£35,00(3), setting aside
i-000 for taxation and strengthening the
basis of valuation in the Industrial branch
at an extra cost of £14,647.
The Industrial business earned sufficient
to give shareholders 15 p.c. p.a. on paid
capital (£50,000) for each of the last three
years and yield a surplus of £21,191 at Dec.
31. Of this amount £1639 was earmarked
to provide bonuses on policies which become
claims during the current year. The rate is
10 p.c. of the sum assured for policies 15
years in force, and advances by 1 p.c. for
each additional year in force. After that
£32,052 was set aside to provide for the ex-
tension of business and to further strengthen
the basis of valuation. The remaining £7500
belongs to shareholders; thus this branch of
the business has provided an average of 20
p.c. on capital during the triennium.
The surplus in the Ordinary department
was £68,805, including the unexpended bal-
ance of the interim bonus reserve (£3116).
But to protect all parties against possible
fluctuations in the future rate of profits, and
against suspended mortality, £26,212 of this
amount has been reserved. Of the £42,593
that_ remained shareholders take one-fifth
(£B5lB, equal to 17 p.c. on capital, or an
average of 5.6 p.c. for the three years). The
other four-fifths goes to policy-holders; it
provided bonuses ranging from 30s. p.c. to
60s. p.c. on the premiums paid during each
of the last three years.
Henceforth bonuses are to be declared
annually. The present rates, the actuary
says, are well within the average earning
power of the co., so the outlook for both
policy-holders and shareholders should be
one of increasing benefits.
Thus far the chief sources of profit appear
to have been a favorable mortality experience
and surplus interest. The office assumes that
its funds will earn Si p.c. Actually 2| p.c.
more than that was realised last year, and
that was 1 p.c. better than the rate earned
in 1920. Considering the number of years
the eo. has been issuing policies, a dis-
appointing feature of its activities is the
small amount of Ordinary business written.
And over the last two years the position in
this respect, and in the matter of new busi-
ness costs, has not improved, either. Con-
sider these figures:—
1920. 1926. 1927. 1928.
New policies.. 1,226 1,774 1,564 1,442
Assuring .. £186,988 £391,811 £338,557 £336.052
First premiums 7,349 13,293 11,429 10,570
Renewal
premiums .. 23,225 45,636 53,691 58,846
Assuming that new business is 10 times
more costly than old, then last year’s first
premiums were gathered at a cost of 104
p.c. as against 100 p.c. and 90.4 p.c. in each
of the two preceding years. The ratio of
exes, to premium income, however, was the
second-best on record, being 20 p.c. compared
with 25.9 p.c. and 29 p.c. in 1927 and 1924
respectively. The average per policy was
£233 as against £216 in 1927 and £152 in
1920. No harm would be done if more
encouragement was given holders of Indus-
trial policies to transfer to the Ordinary
branch.
Steady progress continues in the Indus-
trial department. Last year £685,493 of
business was put on the books under 14,221
polices, or £20,767 more than was written
under 110 S fewer polices during the previous
term. Of the business in force over 48 p.c.
was whole of life. The average per policy
was £4B compared with £5O in the previous
year and £54 in 1920. And the expense rate
continues on the down grade. Excluding
dividends, last year’s outgo consumed 48.3
p.c. of the premium income compared with
48.3 p.c. and 51.7 p.c. in the two years
before that.
The funds of the two departments and the
capital and some liabilities —the lot totalling
£892,992 —are placed in these proportions :
’2O. ’22. ’24. ’26. ’27. ’2B.
p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c.
Freehold, etc. . . 27.4 20.3 81.8 29.8 20.8 23.4
Government securities 53.0 68.5 44.3 42.0 39.1 30.9
Shares in other cos... 0.5 4.3 3.1 2.4 2.2 2.0
Mortgages .. ..4.1 9.4 12.0 10.4 22.9 29.7
Loans on policies . . 2.7 2.6 3.2 3.7 3.5 3.7
Hook debts . . . . 3.1 2.0 3.2 3.2 3.5 3.3
Cash and deposits .. 2.0 2.4 1.8 1.9 2.0 1.0
More attention is being given to mortgages.
These and the property investments —
£130,978 lias been added to freeholds, etc.,
during the last half-dozen years—account
for the high rate of interest earned. Also
some nice profits have been made on pro-
perty sales of recent years.
Permewan, Wright and Co., Ltd.
To Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1918 .. 5,014 7 p.c. = 3,500 2114 24,044
1919 .. 10,973 10 „ „ 5,000 5973 30,017
Assets written up, .. 37,020
1920 . . 12,201 10 p.c. = 5,000 7261 44,281
Set aside for taxation, £2500 .. 41,781
1921 .. 14,549 12$ p.c. = 7.500 7049 48,830
1922 .. 0,850 8 „ „ 6,000 860 49,680
1923.. 9,704 10 „ „ 7,50!) 2204 61,884
1924 . . 15.486 12$ „ „ 9,375 6111 67,996
Premiums on shares. £0250.. .. 64,245
1925 .. 15,811 121 p.c. = 9,375 6430 70,681
1926 .. 19,031 121 ~ „ 12,500 6531 77,212
1927 .. 22.1G5 12* ~ „ 13,802 8363 85,575
Premiums on shares, £0250.. .. 91,825
1928 . . 24,093 12* p.c. =17,578 7115 98,940
1929 .. 19,732 12* „ „ 19,531 201 99,141
This co., with Melbourne headquarters, is
in the carrying, produce and general mer-
chandising business, aud its branches are
well scattered through the back country of
Vic. and N. S. Wales. Last year dry con-
ditions over most of the area and disturb-
ances in the shipping industry made trading
difficult. The result is reflected in a drop
of £4!)61 in net earnings, which fell away
to 12.6 p.c. on average capital compared
with 17.6, 20.1, 18.9, 25.1 and 23.4 p.c. hack
to 1924. However, since the close of accounts
widespread rains have brightened prospects,
and the 12£ p.c. to shareholders was re-
peated for the sixth year in succession,
though it took all but a handful of the dis-
closed net profit to do it. The £156,250 of
paid capital now has the assistance of
£99,141 of visible reserves, and on the whole
margins have been very comfortable. More-
over, paid capital has more than trebled
since 1920, a fact which needs to be kept in
mind when considering its earning power.
Last year’s results were the first inter-
ruption to the co.’s progress since the slump
which followed the post-war boom, and
takings were the lowest since the business
of Broadbent Bros., which covered Western
Vic. and the Malice, was bought in 1925.
This comparison of p. and 1. figures shows
that and other features:—
Gross Exes, (not inc. Exes. p.c. of
Profits. Depreciation). Gross Profits.
1921.. £91,253 £75,558 82.8
1923.. 78,281 66,176 84.5
1924.. 94,205 73,908 78.5
1925.. 98,664 79,700 80.8
1926.. 136,528 111,915 81.8
1927. . 138.866 114,413 82.4
1928.. 150,409 120,455 80.1
1929.. 131,310 107,172 81.6
Gross profit fell away £19,099; but the
drop was greatly softened by a cut of
£13,283 in exes., which might be taken as
an indication of the quality of the manage-
ment. The amount set aside for deprecia-
tion was £2751, or little more than half the
previous year’s provision. But it was 10 p.c.
of the book value of plant at the close of
accounts in 1928, since when £3600-odd
more appears to have been spent on that
item than was written off. Another fac-
tor to be considered in relation to profits
is the provision for batP and doubtful debts,
which is made before writing the figures into
the sheet. Book debts (£212.150, up £39,506
during the year) are the heaviest on record
and represent nearly 53 p.c. of the total


8 I
kli
m
>
as. 4 -"**!.. :-■«>***.
V"
N
V:
/'•
v;,.
For those who
seek a better
Vacation —-
THE Hotel Ranelagh, Robert-
son—23oo feet altitude—is
the premier Country Hotel of the
Commonwealth.
Golf is a delight on the sport-
ing links.
You’ll remember every set of
Tennis on the Ranelagh Courts —
which overlook the blue Pacific.
Sportsmen find in the duck on
the Wingecarribee, in the rabbits,
hares, quail and plover, and in
the perch or bass of the mountain
streams—plenty to occupy gun
and rod.
Hacks await the orders of those
who would canter through the
bracing air to the many points of
scenic interest.
And when the long day out of
doors is over, the beautiful ball-
room, with its strains of lovely
melody, awaits you the
billiard tables in clubby atmo-
sphere. . . .the card tables in the
luxurious lounges.... huge old-
world log fires, call you.
Wonderful bedrooms, spacious
dining-rooms, and perfect cuisine
are the most alluring features of
The Ranelagh, which is under the
management of Mr. Gaston M.
Lievain, late of Paris House.
%otet iktiekdho
'Hjobertsotv. *
N.SJW.
2300 ft. Altitude. 15 Miles East of Moss Vale.
Winter Tariff as from Ist May to
80th August inclusive , from £l/1/-
per day; from £5/10/- weekly.
Illustrated Brochure from
Sydney Boohing Office , B.lf Pitt
Street. ’Phone: 81022.
The Bank of Adelaide
SIXTY-THIRD ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS TO THE
SHAREHOLDERS.
The Directors have pleasure in submitting herewith for the information of
Shareholders the Balance-sheet of the Bank as on the 25th March, 1929, and
statements of Profit and Loss and the Reserve Fund on the same date.
The Balance of Profit and Loss for the year ended 25th
March, 1929 (including the balance brought forward from
previous year, £33,464/5/3), amounts to £178,874 13
Out of which an Interim Dividend at the rate of 10 per
cent, per annum was paid in November last .. .. 62,500 0 0
0
Leaving available
Out of which the Directors have resolved to
transfer to Reserve Fund (making it
£985,000)
And have declared a dividend for the half-
year ended 25th March, 1929, at the rate
of 10 per cent.. per annum, payable after
the General Meeting on Ist May, 1929 ..
£116,374 13 0
£15,000 0 0
62,500 0 0
Leaving a balance to carry forward of
£77,500 0 0
£38,874 13 0
On the 21st day of December, 1928, the Bank was registered as a limited Company
under the Companies Act 1892. . ,
During the year Branches have been opened at Saddleworth and lanunda, and
Agencies at Norwood, McLaren Flat, Yeelanna, Galga, Wynarka, Morphett Vale,
Reynella, Coomandook, Port Noarlunga and Marrabel; the Agencies at I weed vale
and Edwardstown have been converted into Branches; the Agency at Mercunda
has been closed, i
During the year Mr. James R. Fowler, M.A., resigned his seat on the Board.
The' .Directors desire to place on record their appreciation of the valuable services
rendered to the Bank by Mr. Fowler during the 14 years of his tenure of office. Mi.
A. A. Simpson, C.M.G., C.8.E., on 16th May, 1928, was elected to fill the vacancy.
The Ordinary General Meeting will be held at the Registered Office of the
Company, 81 King William Street, Adelaide, on Wednesday, Ist May, 1929, at
12 o’clock noon, at which the Shareholders will be called upon to elect one Director
in place of Mr. Alfred Allen Simpson, C.M.G., C.8.E., whip retires in accordance
with the Articles of Association, but is eligible for re-election, and offers himselt
accordingly. . . >
The Shareholders will be asked to elect two Auditors for the ensuing year, and
fix their remuneration. . „ _.
HOWARD W. LLOYD, Chairman of Directors.
W. J. MASSON, General Manager.
W. J. MASSON, General Manager.
THE BANK OF ADELAIDE
BALANCE-SHEET, 25th MARCH, 1929.
LIABILITIES.
Capital paid up £1,250,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. 970,000 0 0
Profit and Loss.. 116,374 13 0
—£2,336,374 13 0
Notes in Circulation .. .. 6,713 0 0
Bills in Circulation and other
Liabilities . . .. • • 206,524 15 4
Balances due to other Banks .. 360,675 10 9
Deposits ... 6,177,591 14 6
Interest accrued on Fixed Deposits
and Rebate on Bills Discounted.. 65,875 2 4
£9,153,754 15 11
Contingent Liabilities, consisting
of Letters of Credit, etc. .. £385,837 19 4
ASSETS.
Specie, Bullion,
andC a s h
Balances .. £251,966 19 9
Australian Notes
and Cash with
C o mmonwcalth
Bank .. .. 654,305 6 0
Government
Securities .. 813,943 18 2
Municipal
Debentures .. 3,250 0 0
Balances due from
other Banks .. 182,322 8 7
Notes of other
Banks .. .. 2,790 0 0
Remittances
in Transitu .. 948,634 19 10
—£2,857,213 12 4
Bank Premises and Furniture .. 347,434 10 2
Bills Receivable and all other
Advances .. .. .. .. 5,949,106 13 6
£9,153,754 16 11
Liabilities of Customers on Letters
of Credit, etc., as per Contra .. £385,837 19 4
w
To Reserve Fund as
below .. ..£20,000 0 0
Dividend in May,
1928 . . .. 62,500 0 0
Dividend in Novem-
ber, 1928 .. 62,500 0 0
£145,000 0 0
Balance .. .. •• •• 116,374 13 0
£261,374 13 0
Bv balance 26th March, 1928 ..£115,964 5 8
Net Profit, including recoveries
and afer making provision for
Bad and Doubtful Debts, In-
terest accrued on Fixed Deposits,
and Rebate on Bills Discounted,
and deducting Expenses at Head
Office and 64 Branches, includ-
ing Salaries, Rents, Taxes, etc. 145,410 7 9
£261,374 13 0
RESERVE FUND.
To balance at this date
..£970,000 0 0
£970,000 0 0
By balance, 26th March, 1928
Transfer from Profit and Loss,
May, 1928
£950,000 0 0
20,000 0 0
£970,000 0 0
W. J. MASSON, General Manager.
O. L. ISAACHSEN, Secretary.
HOWARD W. LLOYD,
Chairman of Directors.
We have compared the above Balance-sheet with the Books and accounts of
the Bank of Adelaide for the Year ending 25th March, 1929, and certify that it is a
correct abstract of the same. We have counted the Cash and examined the Bills and
Government and Municipal Securities on hand at the Head Office—the Assets -fad
Liabilities at the Branches other than London have been taken on the certificates of
the Managers and Accountants of the respective Branches, and those of the London
Branch as cabled by the London Manager.
Adelaide, 10th April, 1929.
G. R. ANNELLS )
K. W. NEILL j
Auditors.
Chartered Accountants (Aust.).
Light food for the aged.
Food
Beg. Trade Mark.
With advancing years, the
need for food which is suit-
ably light yet strength-
giving and sustaining is
imperative. No food com-
bines these qualities so
happily as Benger’s Food,
as medical men agree.
Send for Bender's Booklet, post free.
BENGER'S FOOD, Ltd.,
350, George Street, SYDNEY.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.


Get your
PAINTS and
VARNISHES
from
AGENTS
EVERYWHERE.
THEY "KEEP ON KEEPING ONI
Are Your Invest-
ments ROCKY?
MORE THAN HALF
OF ALL REGISTERED
COMPANIES FAIL.
<r
ONLY THE EXPERT
CAN READ THE SIGNS
Australia’s leading ex-
pert is
“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY.”
APRIL NUMBER NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY. 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
From Newsagents, or “Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
Unaffected by rust or corrosion of any sort, Pioneer
Wood Pipe consistently delivers full bore flow
throughout its extremely long life. Ability to with-
stand the effects of frost and electrolysis is another
feature that appeals to engineers. Cheaper to buy,
freight, transport and lay, it has many points of
superiority over metal pipe—and is practically ever-
lasting. Full information is contained in an inter-
esting illustrated booklet —free on request. The
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road
(near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; and at
Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
* * * . *
W. Soren Jensen, Mining Engineer, Assoc. 1.M.M.,
London, M.A.1.M.E., A.C.T.S.M., etc., 33 Boyle
Street, Ciemorne, Sydney. Box 220 D., G.P.0.,
Sydney. ’Phone, BWIIO6.
* * * *
Investors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hasssel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castiereagh
Street, . Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Colt.ison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree.— Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
r
&
YG
3 O ON
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
1
IDT
'-Bwift & Conn
St., Sydney ZJ
puny Ltd.. Australasian Agents, 26 30 Clarence
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-Glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone,
etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
assets. Much depends upon their valuation
and the size of the contingency fund.
The year’s difficult trading conditions and
the growth of the business are reflected in
this comparison of balance-sheet figures:—
1920. 1925. 1927. 1928. 1929.
Liabilities. 79,212 63,415 134,998 97,962 129,091
Plant an il
property 47,193 38,571 80,497 75,934 79,288
Hook debts 90,583 119,109 166,420 172,644 212,150
Merchandise 82,883 44,244 80,310 86,613 78,706
Shares Mur-
ray Ship-
ping . . 18,000 18,000 18,000 18,000
Cash, etc... 5,834 22,797 13,740 16,727 13,306
In order to accommodate its clients the co.
went outside for an extra £31,129 last year,
but the more or less liquid surplus
(£175,071), including merchandise, was only
£2951 lighter than at the previous balance.
The holding in Murray Shipping is kept at
par; these shares had a net asset backing of
21s. 9d. at Jan. 31, but no div. lias been
paid on the ords. for the last two years.
Notwithstanding the year’s poorer show-
ing, the market, which paid 425. for the
scrip a year ago, expresses its confidence in
the future by now offering 48s. for the 255.-
paid shares. The return at that figure is
only 5.2 p.c. on a 12A p.e. div. basis. The
visible backing amounts to 40s. lid. in net
tangibles.
Union Trustee Co.
Ordi- Investment
nary Fluctuation
Feb., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1919.. 12,119 9.V p.c. = 9,500 20,895 709
1920.. 12,420 10 „ ~ 10,000 29,315 734
Transferred to capital, £5,000 24,315 734
1921.. 15,670 10 p.c. = 10,500 29,485 682
Transferred to capital, £5,000 24,485 682
1922.. 14,020 10 p.c. = 11,000 27,505 736
1923.. 15,309 10 „ ~11,000 31,814 1027
1924.. 17,024 10 „ ~ 11,000 37,838 1047
1925.. 20.853 10 „ ~ 11,000 47,691 1047
1926.. 20,233 10 ~ ~ 11,000 56,924 1063
1927.. 20,700 10 „ ~11,000 60,630 1097
Transferred to capital, £15,000 51,630 1097
1928.. 20,252 10 p.c. = 12,500 59,382 1026
1929.. 20,341 10 „ „ 12,600 ) 11( - R
Staff Super. Fund, £2OOO )
This is the only trustee co. in Australia with
offices in each of the three eastern States.
It set up in Melbourne 44 years ago, opened
at Brisbane five years later, reached Sydney
in 1914, and little more than 12 months ago
established a branch at Townsville. Still, it
is only during the last decade that share-
holders have skimmed much cream from the
business: it was not until 1920 that the
div. climbed to 10 p.c. In that year, too,
the first capitalisation was made—a modest
£5OOO of accumulated profits. This and two
subsequent gift issues totalled £25,000, mak-
ing paid capital £125,000; thus the 10 p.c.
div. is worth 12§ p.c. to old holders.
Though there have been no other pickings
since 1914, when the last new share issue
was made, the remarkable growth of the
business since and the very comfortable
margin between earnings and distributions—
last year’s £20,341 of profit was 10.2 p.c.
on paid capital—give the future a rosy
appearance.
The co. does not tell the amount of trusts
it administers, but the total figures must
be large. Consider this comparison with
Australia’s greatest and also with its oldest
trustee offices:—
Gross
Trusts. Income.
Perpetual (Sydney).. ..£34,231,040 £127,009
T. E. and A. (Melbourne) .. 20,897,807 74,190
Union .. .. .. ? 95,036
What is more, shareholders were told in
1928 that for the previous six years estates
aggregating £11,426,164 were put on the
books, or an average of £1,875.912 a year
compared with an average of £1,460,500 p.a.
for the six years to 1923. Amongst the
factors which have helped the figures along
is the co.’s strong influence in pastoral
circles and a steady increase in property
values.
A succession of good seasons and high
prices for wool have fattened incomes and
assisted commission earnings :
Commissions,
Interest, etc. Expenses.
1895 .. .. £7,799 £4,151
1905 .. .. 8,916 5,489
1915 .. .. 17.318 9,728
1920 .. .. 37,029 24,609
1925 .. .. 80,658 59,805
1926 .. .. 81,607 61,374
1927 . . . . 86 869 66,162
1928 . . . . 92,761 72,509
1929 .. .. 95,036 74,695
Yet the spring of £2275 in last year’s in-
come was less than half the increase for the
previous term. As for net profit, there has
been very little movement for five years,
owing to the rapid increase in exes., due
largely to heavier taxation and to the growth
in administrative charges. Certainly the co.
may be doing a little better than the pub-
lished figures indicate; each year portion of
the corpus commission, which ranges from
1 p.c, to 2 i p.c. of the capital value of
estates, is reserved as not wholly earned,
credit being taken in the p. and 1. “account
as the trusts are wound up. It may be that
the reservations are on the liberal side.
Balance-sheet figures compare thus: —
1915. 1920. 1928. 1929.
Capital .. £73,822 £lOO,OOO £125,000 £125,000
Liabilities .. 1,231 6,084 185 176
Premises .. 50,474 83,925 105,548 106,152
Public securities 32,732 52,668 60,641 60,742
Mortgages and
debentures. . 1,724 455
Cash, etc. . . 7,117 2,235 21,544 28,020
Sundry debtors
and sundries 1,660 2,305 4.110 4,437
Public securities are valued on the basis of
the net market price at each balancing date.
Since the books closed on Feb. 28 quotes
have eased slightly. Premises, up £OO4 dur-
ing the year, are worth a lot more than
their book value.
Capital is in 100,000 shares of £2 10s.
paid to 255. each. Of the other 255. one
pound is a reserve liability callable only in
the event of liquidation, so under ordinary
circumstances only another ss. per share can
be got in or paid up out of undivided
profits. The market, impressed by the
co.’s snug position, the high quality of its
control and its prospects, recently offered
58s. for the scrip, but it was not enough
to entice sellers out of their shell. At that
figure the return is only 4.3 p.c. on a 10
p.C. div. basis. The backing amounts to
38s. 3d. per share in net tangibles.
Chas. A. Mitke, of Phoenix, Arizona, a
recognised authority and a frequent con-
tributor to technical publications, has been
chosen by JMt. Isa to determine tin' most
economical mining method or methods. On
the metallurgical side the co. has handed
over the designing of the plant to the General
Engineering Co. of Salt Lake City, Utah, of
which co. ,T. M. Callow is president. This
co. has been carrying out consulting metal-
lurgical work, ore testing, plant designing
and plant construction for 22 years. It will
be interesting to compare the equipment and
costs of treatment with those of Broken Ilill.
* * * #
“Hard Lend”: The representative of the
Commonwealth Government in U.S.A. re-
cently drew attention to the market there
for high-grade antimony ore. America, whose
production of antimony is negligible, appears
to prefer ■ buying the raw concentrates
rather than the metal. Precisely the same
thing went on for some years with Bolivian
tin concentrates, which were treated at an
electrolytic plant in New Jersey. It is
doubtful if U.S.A. would be a better buyer
of antimony ore than Europe. Both Bel-
gium and Germany handle the ore largely.
Bolivian antimony ore, GO per cent., is
quoted 6s. per short-ton unit c.i.f. New York,
While the metal itself is quoted Chinese 4|d.
per lb. and “Cooksons” 7|d. Antimony
trioxide, 99 per cent, pure, is quoted 7£d. per
lb. New York.
* * * *
The directors of Mt. Elliott talk about a
net profit of £320.000 for the first year of
resumed operations, the figure rising to
£450,000 in subsequent years, with electro-
lytic at £75, London—ait the week-end it
was between £B4 and £B5. Five years’ supply
of ore is immediately available, and other
supplies should be proved long before the end
of 1934. Costs are put at £35 per ton, and
production should begin in June. Much de-
pends on the behavior of the copper market.
The recent failure of the market to quite hold
on to the recovery shows that even the tight
grip of the American Copper Trust is not
wholly effective: it seems that a number of
producers cleared heavy stocks during Feb-
ruary and March without reference to the
Trust. However, prices are still far ahead
of recent averages; and, thus stimulated,
production is increasing, and in new quar-
ters. Canada will soon be an important
factor in output, and big proved deposits in
Rhodesia are now attracting capital.
* * * #
Guinea Gold, the first of the New Guinea
cos. to get solidly to work—even with the
field three years old it has few imitators—
has described the options granted to Ellyou
and Placer Development. The Bulolo
leases are being tested by Placer Develop-
ment, and results are believed to be satis-
factory, though no mention of values has
yet appeared. Guinea Gold is to get
£50,000 cash, plus 10 p.c. of the shares in
any concern formed to develop this ground.
The co.’s 20 other leases are included in
the Edie Creek area over which the Ellyou
Corporation has options. These, which art;
also being tested, comprise alluvial and
reefing propositions. Guinea Gold has con-
tinued production on the alluvial area on
Koranga Creek, and the value of gold won
leaves a margin over field expenses. The
Ellyou option expires on June 30, but may
be extended to Dee. 31 on payment of
£2OOO. If it is exercised Guinea Gold is
to get £90,000 in paids in the co. to be
formed.
Guinea Gold has declared a div. of Is. —
the second —and its subsidiary, New Guinea
Airways, its third of 25., both payable
early in May.
* * * *
H. W. Clark, consulting engineer of New
Guinea Developments, also prominent in
connection with N. G. Gold and Osmiridium
and N. G. Goldfields and Exploration, has
pegged out a number of leases on the
N. G. field, and with others held under
option has now a group of 27. A British
co. unnamed, but said not to be the Ellyou
Corporation, is treating for the purchase of
these. A report states that reef manganese
and quartz lias been cut in a costeen near
the top of Edie Mountain, showing an es-
timated value of 3oz. to the ton —gold quality
not stated. In view of the extravagant
values at first put upon the so-called Day
Dawn lode, people would be well advised to
wait for sampling and assays by technically
trained men.
There is the matter of the leases at such
places as Edie Creek and Namie Creek to
be considered, too. According to reports
from experienced men on the field, these
leases overlap in all directions like the
posters on a well-used country hoarding.
Lots of them under-run alluvial claims, and
here again is a fruitful cause of dispute and
litigation.
* * * «>
Marranboy Mining Co. (N.T.), which
ceased gouging about the middle of last year,
should have 10 head of its own stamps fall-
ing this month. The erection of another
10 head is to follow. When the lot get to
work the co. counts on a net profit of £5OOO
p.a., with tin at £220, London, and ore
averaging 2 p.c. The mine is worked on the
open-cut system, and chairman Walter
Baker says there is enough ore in sight to
keep the mill going for the next 20 years.
* * * *
The sitting of the Queensland Mining
Commission in Brisbane the other day was
agreeably varied by the appearance of a
prospector with a parcel of turquoise
obtained from a find at Dayboro, about
.'!0 miles from Brisbane. Turquoise has
been reported in various parts of Australia
before, but there does not seem to be a defi-
nite market for it. Most of the best tur-
quoise comes from Upper Egypt and Persia,
and the gem is a popular one with Asiatics.
Everything depends upon the color, which
must be a perfect azure blue. The chief fault
is a greenish tinge.
* * * *
Queensland backblocks haven’t had much
occasion to grumble at mud for the last
couple of years; but there has been so much
rain lately that drilling on several of the
Roma outside prospecting areas has been
greatly interfered with.
* * * *
Victoria is thankful for small mercies in
mining these days; wherefore there was
more than local talk when from an appa-
rently new shallow formation on the old
Beehive at Maldon five tons gave 320 z. the
other day.
* * * *
New Red, White and Blue No. 2, Bendigo,
has crushed 184 tons for 1740 z. The spurs
are from 15ft. to 18ft. wide, and this forma-
tion has never been worked in the senior
Blue mine. The parent Co. has got on to
better stone, the average having risen from
3dwt. to Bdwt. per ton.
* * * *
Pioneer Tin suffered along with other
Tasmanian shows in the recent floods,
though the power-house and the dam at
Frome were unharmed. The mine is flooded
and the head race washed out, and the
siphon pipes are all over the place, but
are being recovered. The estimated cost
of reconditioning, including the rewinding
of the two main electric motors, is from
£4OOO to £5OOO.
* * * *
Deputy-chairman A. H. Collier has visited
Wiluna (W.A.), and will give his impres-
sions at a shareholders’ meeting on his re-
turn to London. Meanwhile Prior, who was
recently imported from Mexico to boss the
show, is pushing ahead with development
and preparing for the production stage,
which is expected to be reached about the
middle of next year. At the last annual
meeting chairman Hamilton estiinated profit
from ore treatment at 13s. a ton to start
With, but it is understood that Prior’s esti-
mate is two or three shillings less than that.
* * * *
Chairman F. A. Hamilton boomed the
future of Ivalgoorlie at the Horseshoe meet-
ing in London. For many years, he said,
the field had languished despite large deve-
loped ore reserves, which almost anywhere
else in the world would be considered pay-
able. The remedy, of course, was reduced
costs. One way of bringing this about was
by amalgamation, large-scale mining and
modern and efficient plants. In this direction
the Lake View and Horseshoe cos. have given
a lead to the whole industry of the West.
* * * *
South Ralgurli is the only Westralian pro-
ducer that has been paying regular divs. of
recent years. But Great Boulder’s early re-
appearance on the distributing list is tipped
in London, and Lake View (with which is
now incorporated Golden Horseshoe, Ivan-
hoe, Chaffers and Boulder Main Reef) hopes
to do likewise very soon. Perseverance and
Gwalia are not yet finished, and may give
shareholders a little more by and bye.
Westralian State treatment plants have
now extracted well over £6,000,000 of wealth,
almost wholly in the form of gold, but the
number in operation and the rate of pro-
duction is much less now tliau formerly.
Expenditure goes on exceeding revenue, but
there are very great indirect benefits.
* * * *
In a report of a tour through Malaya
undertaken recently, Ormsby-Gore, Under-
secretary for the Colonies, has some inter-
esting remarks to make on tin production
thereabout. Production for 1928 was 61,898
tons, or close on 10,000 tons more than the
1927 production. More important is his
opinion, founded on expert evidence and
after exhaustive inquiry, that there was no
foundation whatever for the view ex-
pressed so freely in. some quarters that the
Malayan deposits were heading towards ex-
haustion in the near future. Indeed, he
says, Malaya is good for another 200 years
of tin-mining.


Poverty
Point
THE TACTICIAN.
“It is understood that Mr. Hughes will be satisfied eventually if he is offered something less than office—say the High Commissionership.”
The North Shore Peri at the gate “I’m locked out, but I hold a key
Of office stood disconsolate. That should get me somewhere yet,” said he.
“Cauboy”: It is not only the pianistieally-
inclined actress who receives assistance
from off stage. An imported English
musicomedy star was found to possess
all the necessary qualifications for her part
except the top notes'. Her understudy, an
Australian with a relatively fine voice, was
deputed to stand in the wings and supply
the deficiency whenever it occured. The
scheme worked well for awhile, and the
critics unanimously praised the newcomer’s
vocal powers. Then one night wounded
vanity moved the star to remark to the
manager that it was no wonder the under-
study could sing because everybody knew
she had canary legs. In due course the
epigram reached the understudy’s ears.
From then till the end of the season the
star’s voice mysteriously went flat.
Gladys Moncrieff settles an argument: I
first appeared on a stage at Bundaberg as
Little Willie in Dan Barry’s “East Lynne.”
I was, of course, a child. Before going to
Townsville, where Frederic in “The Pirates
of Penzance” was my first operatic part, I
played another child role in Bundy—my
home town. I think my mother and dad
were my discoverers as much as anybody
else.
“R. Volt”: This year’s radio show at Mel-
bourne Exhibition was less interesting than
the last, presumably because it was given
over to the trade. The amateurs who make
efficient sets out of matchboxes and pins
were not represented, though there were
plenty of luxurious monsters. All these de-
vices fail to conceal the fact that in the
matter of reproducing beautiful sounds at
full strength radio broadcasting has hardly
advanced at all, and certainly fails to achieve
the purity of tone that a crystal set with
’phones supplies. The trade is beginning to
realise this, and is deliberately aiming at
exploiting the nation’s ear in the direction
which will ensure the largest sales. It is
not seeking accurate reproduction but a
sort of unctuous, syrupy caricature of har-
monious noise, like the Wurlitzers, so j>opu-
lar in the cinema halls. I can quite imagine
a person brought up exclusively on broadcast
music being astounded when he heard
a human singing voice direct, or an actual
symphony concert in which every instru-
ment retains its individuality. The presiding
deity of the wireless exhibition was a bust
of Beethoven. Poor Ludwig wore a puzzled
frown.
“L. de R.”: Two more factories for the
manufacture of operatic prima donnas will
soon be in full blast in Melbourne. Prof.
Heinze is importing a Paris singer to con-
duct a class at the University Conserva-
torium, and Fritz Hart has engaged Roberto
Zucchi, who was the Firm’s chorus-master
in 1924 and 1928, to do ditto for the Albert-
street institution. The last-named scheme is
under the patronage of J.C.W., who have
most to gain by being able to dip into a
local reservoir of talent.
“Craiser”: Beresford Fowler’s enterprise
in taking a company of Melbourne amateurs
to the Speck gained that persistent entre-
preneur heaps of glory, if not sudden wealth.
During the season at Hobart Royal local
critics, glad of a respite from reporting the
flapdoodle usually provided by the regular
producers, gave him columns of laudation,
whereas the most he gets from the Mel-
bourne dailies is a small par. Galsworthy’s
“Windows,” Shaw’s “Candida” and Noel
Coward's “Ratrap” were among the intel-
lectual provender supplied. Fowler might
have done better if he could have had a
season in Launceston, but when he reached
it that city’s feet were too damp for it to
worry about putting its head among the
stars.
“L.H.P.”: The ballet “Giselle.” oroduced
by Pavlova, inspired Edward Loder to write
an opera on the same subject. This work,
“The Night Dancers,” was played here in
the old days at the Victoria Theatre by the
Carandini Opera Co. Puccini also used the
legend for “Levilli” (“The Witch Dancers”),
but the Italian work never achieved the suc-
cess of the English opera, which for nearly
20 years was in the repertoire of the once-
famous Pyne-llarrison co. in Fogland.
“Lond.”: Angela Baddeley, who played
Phoebe in ’’Quality Street” in Australia, is
playing it again in a revival at London
Haymarket. Mary Jerrold, the Susan of that
cast —and some thought the star of it—is
experimenting in tragedy as the mother in
“The Sacred Flame,” Somerset Maugham’s
latest. The crippled airman-husband is
murdered. The nurse thinks his admittedly-
unfaithful wife (Gladys Cooper) did it;
but it was really done by his mother out of
pity, lest he should learn the truth. Nearly
all the critics think that Miss Jerrold’s
pleasant style is not that of a Medea parent.
“Hamfat” : Eugenie Duggan, now appear-
ing in Sydney suburban picture-shows in a
first-part production of “Charley’s Aunt,”
has probably been the virchewus heroine in
more plays than any other woman in Aus-
tralia. Husband-manager Bill Anderson used
to run weekly changes.
“F.S.”: An interesting feature of the
mass migration of theatregoers that is hap-
pening at the moment in Melbourne is that
a good deal of it is not profit or loss but
mere book entries. Thus the State is snaring
patrons from the neighboring Majestic, but
both happen to have the same owners. The
seats that yawn at Hoyt’s I)e Luxe are an
advertisement for the superior attractions of
the Regent, but Regent and Hoyt’s are under
the same management. The suburban pic-
ture-theatres are feeling the strain, too, and
they again are shared out among the owners
of the city palaces. Even the people who are
leaving the legititmate and crowding to the
cinema parlors are paying tribute to the
same lot of proprietors. One movie mansion
is even going to the extreme of opening a
second picture-theatre in its own basement.
“Elsie Ghee”; Latest acting-producer for
the Reps in Melbourne, Lucy Ahon (recently
pictured in Sunday Shows), is Mrs. Roy
McGowan Russell in private life. She is
a tiny woman, vivid and sparkling.
A member of the Victorian Australian-
Chinese colony, which has given so many
brainy men and women to the southern
State, she is a B.A. of Melbourne Univer-
sity. Before marrying and adopting Rep-
ertory, Miss Ahon was guilty of practising
and teaching elocution of the most unashamed
South-street kind, and actually became the
elocutionary champion of her native State.
“Lysander”: A notice from London states
that when Helen Ford, the U.S.A. actress to
whom Tallis entrusted the title-role in the
English production of “The Patsy.” fell ill,
her place was effectively taken by Margaret
Bays, “well known in Australia.” I can’t
recall her —can you?
“Craiser”: That the Firm is beginning to
take a fresh interest in drama is shown by
the engagement of Leo Carillo, an American
artist who is bringing “Lombardi. Ltd.,” to
Australia shortly. Its authors, Freddie and
Fanny Hatton, wrote “The Great Lover,”
a play which such differing persons as
Maurice Moscovitch and Louis Bennison
thought had a principal role that fitted them
like a glove.
“Peter Pan”: Barrington Waters, man-
ager of Brisbane Empire ever since Fullers
took it over from Holland and St. John 14
years ago, has had to stop work. His health
has been troubling him for some years, and
a couple of breakdowns have resulted in his
being ordered to Maoriland. He was on the
boards for several years before his front-of-
the-house work.
“8.L.H.”: The news that Paderewski has
given the proceeds of his last series of
concerts, amounting to about £24,000, to
the French war widows, as a tribute to
Foch, recalls that lie donated the proceeds
of his last Sydney and Melbourne recitals
in 1027 to our own patriotic funds. Paderew-
ski has been giving hard cash to patriotic
funds in America and other Allied countries
for years. His generosity is on a par with
his musicianship, and one can’t say more
than that.
“Chicot”: George Robey, who’ll be 60 in
September, is reported to have accepted an
offer of £150,000 to appear in American
talkies for 18 months. He will first tour
S’Africa for six months.
“O. W. Waireki”: What happens on the
silent screen is mostly a mystery to the
older Maoris; they can’t read the sub-titles.
When the talkies penetrate to Maoriland
smalls, the natives will flock along and
enjoy the show as much as “te pakeha
proke.”
THE UNCHANGEABLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Her art is superb; years of training must have
been necessary to acquire it. But she looks no more
than twenty-one. ’ ’—Sydney paper.
When bellow-drama held the stage
"Mid cheering long and loud.
Tall, gold-wigged heroes were the rage,
Strong, stalwart men and proud.
’Twas then that fag-stained fingers showed
The villain's evil ways,
And heroines, well furbelowed,
Were stiffly rigged in stays;
But even then ’twas understood
Not only were the ladies good
As any hooded nun,
But none in leading roles that stood
Ivooked more than twenty-one.
Though outworn modes to new must yield,
The hissing villains pass.
And the comedian be revealed
As just a silly ass,
Though heroes now smoke cigarettes
Without a touch of shame
Like old-time wicked baronets,
One thing remains the same:
The ladies who in piquant parts
Essay to woo and win our hearts
Must, till their day is done,
Remain just juvenescent tarts
Who look but twenty-one!
N.S.W.
FLAMING TOUTH.


w
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD.
Total Assets exceed £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
(2, In the ev»nt of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through aceiaent, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
15) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost eve’j contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Desert Song”
Criterion “Young Woodley”
Royal Pavlova
Paiace “ No - 17 ”
Tivoli Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty's “The Vagabond King”
Royal “This Year of Grace”
New Comedy “Sweet Nell of Old Drury”
Kinu’s “The Ghost Upstairs”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
♦
Pavlova, the miracle of grace pictured in
his own engaging fashion by Prain for this
page, continues to dance delightfully at Syd-
ney Royal. It is a little play outside the
play that, with her exquisite artistry—surely
as delicate as any this theatre has known
—Pavlova is unconsciously representing Art
in a curious swansong. It seems a sort of
sacrilege to mention this in a second breath,
but —that sweetheart of the world, Mary
Pickford, bobbed-haired and a vamp for the
occasion, will probably squawk by shadow-
proxy in this same theatre in a month or
so’s time. According to a theatrical sheet
before present writer, J. C. Williamsons
will shortly turn the Royal and other of
their houses into talkie shops.
So Art takes the count to Commerce. Any-
way, it is appropriate that the exit should be
spectacular; that in this overwhelming of an
old legitimate stage there should be left
behind as a final gesture something memor-
able, like Pavlova’s gavotte. Not by a long
chalk has everything presented at this
theatre in the legitimate breed been Art.
Just lately the house has held that clanking
piece of mechanism ‘*The Wrecker," and just
before that it boasted on huge posters the
presence of “Hit the Deck.” Even talkies
might conceivably be better than such trash.
But one puts up with that same trash, just
as one puts up with bad verse and dull
novels, in the knowledge that a Pavlova of
the art will happen along occasionally and
make amends for it all. This Showman for
one cannot imagine the talkies ever reaching
a Pavlova perfection. They may become
perfect of their kind ; a cauliflower can do
that. But there are degrees of worth in per-
fection. What the legitimate stage lacks is
only artists of Pavlova quality; given these,
nothing could assail it.
A strange swan-song this of Pavlovas:
an air on muted strings; lissom figure,
resilient toes, vivid hands expressing
without words all notes along the scale
of emotion. From the tragedy of “Gis-
elle,” through the frozen beauty of
“Snowflakes” to the comedy of “La Fille
Mai Gardee,” culminating in the perfect
feminine grace of the gavotte, she manages
all shades of expression with the same deli-
cacy, the same power of personality, the
same touch of genius that lifts the per-
formance to splendid heights. There are
others in the party greatly superior to those
special dancers who are hailed with a fan-
fare of trumpets around the general theatri-
cal shows. Ruth French in “The Magic
Flute,” as the Queen of the Willis in “Gis-
elle,” as the Princess in “Visions,” the ballet
from “The Sleeping Beauty,” is a charming
and graceful dancer. Nina Kirsanova, in
fiery things like her Spanish dance or Gross-
man’s “Chardaz,” erupts color and vivacity
like a night splash of fireworks. Pierre
Vladimiroff, Pavlova’s partner in almost
everything except the gavotte, in which she
is partnered by Hitchens, is a fine dancer,
especially in serious and straight parts.
Algeranoff is the whirlwind of the party;
Pianowski, Markowski and Borowanski
three true comedians. Add to these half a
dozen others of quality, a keen and well-
trained corps de ballet, colorful costuming
and settings, the dance music of Tscliai-
kowski, Strauss, Grieg, Hertel, Bizet and
various others, a large and on the whole
effective orchestra, several changes of pro-
gramme every week and at each pretty well
the whole range of the dance exploited, and
there’s generous entertaining for you. And
in all this range of expressiveness, Pav. at
every appearance uplifts the performance,
which is the last test of art.
This afternoon (Wednesday) “Walpurgis
Night” and “The Fairy Doll” will be pre-
sented, with “The Romance of a Mummy”
and “The Fairy Doll” to-night. To-morrow
(Anzac Day) there will be a special matinee
of “The Magic Flute” and “Snowflakes,”
with the Wednesday evening offering re-
peated at night. “The Magic Flute” and
“Snowflakes” will be the bill on Friday
night. On Saturday afternoon the “Mummy”
programme will be repeated, with “Don
Quixote” at night.
* * *
Does the art of the theatre progress? It
is 27 years since Nellie Stewart first
appeared in “Sweet Nell” at the Princess,
Melbourne, and she repeated the perform-
ance at the Comedy on Saturday night.
“Sweet Nell” is not much of a play, but
it is Shakspeare compared with the fare cur-
rently being purveyed elsewhere in the cul-
tural centre of the South. Also, Miss Nell’s
repertoire of histrionic airs and graces have
become familiar enough, but the lady is
Sarah Bernhardt compared with the flappers
now cluttering the local boards. No doubt
the art of the stage proceeds in waves, and
this is the trough of the last w r ave and the
beginnings of the next. Last night or the
night before, maybe, a new- star was born
in a stable in Footscray or Darlinghurst.
The present production is hampered by
an indifferent cast. Next to Miss Gwynne,
Lord Jeffreys is the most important adjunct.
Charles Lawrence made the celebrated hang-
ing Judge as bloody and butchersome as a
pound of cooked tripe. Nell will wave her
famous cartwheel hat in the face of the
aristocracy of England until the end of the
week.
* # ¥
In “The Unkissed Bride,” at Melbourne
Palace, Frank Neil is not running true to
form; his trousers never once come off.
Otherwise the American farce follows the
familiar Neilsian routine.
Evelyn Scotney sang on alternate nights
all last week to large and fervently-apprecia-
tive audiences at Melbourne Auditorium.
Although those who heard it six or seven
years ago may remark that the flush />f youth
has gone from it, a lovely voice is Evelyn’s,
and the owner uses it beautifully. Her
pianissimo whisperings are exquisite.
On Thursday she sang “The Lass with
the Delicate Air” to perfection, and in “The
Salmon Fishers” she showed her talent for
PAVLOVA—THE DYING SWAN.
infusing each and every ditty with its special
character. The “Echo Song” turned up
inevitably, as it has done by special and
furious request at every concert; and The
Bulletin had another opportunity of study-
ing how the lady gets the ventriloquial effect
referred to in a previous issue. She seems
to do it in the same way that a painter
conveys the suggestion of space on a flat sur-
face —by the juxtaposition of different tones
in their correct relationship, with no inter-
val of silence (white canvas) in between
to destroy the illusion.
George English’s Postal Institute Choir
sang the Miserere from “Trovatore” from
behind the faded curtain, and George Bryer,
tenor, soloed effectively. The Jenny Lind
setting suggests a charade at Woop Woop.
and neither pianist James nor violinist
Mcßeath is expert in the application of grease-
paint. But these trifles are quickly forgotten
when the music and singing commence.
* * *
Arthur Benjamin, Australian pianist, back
after several years abroad, gave a concert
with the Conservatorium Orchestra, under
Dr. Orchard, at Sydney Town Hall on
Saturday evening. The two major items,
Rachmaninoff’s Concerto No. 3 and the Cesar
Frank Symphonic Variations, revealed a
greatly developed technique of considerable
agility and force, though lacking in tone and
emotional quality. The climax of the con-
certo’s first movement was well done, and its
finale, but the legato playing was not always
adequate. The concerto, in any ease, is
“pianistic” music, not greatly original or
interesting.
The Cesar Frank variations are another
matter. These the pianist played brilliantly
enough, though with some lack of regard
for the content of the work. However, the
wretched acoustics of the Town Hall were
unfair both to Benjamin and the orchestra.
The orchestra’s playing of the introduction
to the third act of “Tristan” came off best;
it was really a meritorious performance.
The weighty romanticism of Weber’s “Eury-
anthe” was rather blurred and strident, and
the adjustment between orchestra and pianist
in the Rachmaninoff concerto seemed often
faulty, probably owing only to the hall's
defects. The pianist was given an enthusi-
astic welcome by a large audience.
V ¥
Erica Morini closed easily the most popu-
lar of recent Harborside concert seasons at
the Town Hall on Thursday afternoon. At
a time when theatrical opposition has been
exceptionally solid, including such offerings
as Pavlova at the Royal, “The Desert Song”
at Her Majesty’s, “Young Woodley” at the
Cri., not to mention A 1 Jolson at the Lyceum
and half a dozen other things that have all
been drawing well, she has attracted crowded
audiences to the house of deplorably-dreadful
seats. She has been accompanied by the
Conservatorium Orchestra, by the fine pianist
Jacomb Gimpel (so good that audiences have
insisted on piano solos from him) and by
the subdued breathing of enthusiastic crowds.
Four extra concerts had to be arranged, and
all were successes. A delightful artist, Miss
Morini, and a brilliant fiddler.
Those who hip-hipped the keeping of Nat
Madison in Australia in the belief that he
would be seen in plays that would permit
a full revelation of the talent of which he
gave glimpses when under the lead of his
dad, Moscovitch, will find further food for
thought if they visit Sydney Palace. There
Madison may be seen in “No. 17,” precisely
the sort of thing his father would purvey if
his father had been granted a sense for broad
comedy. It is yet another mystery play,
as devoid of thought as a pulverised pine-
apple and as mechanical as a tin hare.
Nevertheless it serves as a fair vehicle to
carry Madison through sundry acts of
excellent character acting, and he un-
doubtedly drives it with brilliance; but that
and the first-class producing of Gregan
McMahon are the only things about it worth
mentioning. Dramatically, it is utterly
empty, and the ending is as sorry a piece
of play craftsmanship asi could be met with
in a Cook’s tour of the theatres.
This Showman has no other kick except
that he had hoped with many another to
see Madison in drama and didn’t. That
player’s interpretation of a slouching Cock-
ney was entirely satisfactory. It kept the
crowd in an uproar of laughter and revealed
Madison as a tip-top comedian. lie held
the disjointed piece together splendidly;
made of it an entertainment that was a rank
flattery to itself and its poor fabricators.
The Bulletin will look in on every show
lie figures in, always hoping, of course, that
some day the. Firm will present him with
something worthy of his ability. Appa-
rently it’s hard to live down a tradition,
however false, in the theatrical business as
in any other. If a writer writes one sort
of successful book and then tries something
radically different he is frowned on through-
out the land, and no doubt Madison will
have his work cut out to escape the appalling
tradition of false drama built up by an incon-
siderate pa.
The other worth-while portion—McMahon’s
producing—also flattered the play. The
action occurs on the various floors of
a house which has a couple of storeys, attic
and basement, and on the pavement outside.
The illusion that you are watching occur-
rences actually on these different planes is
engagingly contrived. A continued associa-
tion of McMahon with Madison is another
prayer that will be breathed from behind
this page until such time as the breather
is convinced that the tradition referred to
above is insurmountable.
Ellis Irving does well with a flimsy sup-
porting part, and so does Roger Barry with
a slightly better one. The ladies, Bertha
Iticcardo and Helga Rolunde, are also satis-
factory in rather faint portions. Of the
others, a hefty chap who tried to carry
through a blustering part without knowing
the words was at least valiant.
P.S. —The first two acts will make your
hair stand on end if you fancy that sort
of entertainment and have any. There’s no
need to outline the story; the plot of one
mystery play has already been revealed here.
That covers the lot.
* * *
At Melbourne Comedy the Ruth Nugent-
Alan Bunce co. did their best to make
a revival of “Kempy” sound a little less hol-
low than the promises of an aspirant for
Parliamentary honors. But the show ceased
on Friday after suffering horribly at the
hands of sundry inappropriate artists.
¥ ¥ *
Sydney Tivoli put on a brand-new pro-
gramme after the Easter fever had died
down, and an uncommonly good one it was.
Howard and King, a pair of English enter-
tainers, went rather better .than well in a
bright turn, and Jean Plorian proved himself
a juggler above the ordinary and one who
has taken the trouble to exploit new tricks.
¥ ¥ ¥
As Adelaide Royal sees “The Girl Friend.”
Gus Bluett has a lot of the easy humor of
intoxication. May Beatty is now his in-
compatible wife, Reginald Sharland the hero,
and the heroine Annie Croft. Bluett is seri-
ously challenged by Deo F'ranklyn, who has
to make his own fun. Opposite Franklyn
Billie Lockwood plays up well.
John Drinkwater’s wordy comedy of class,
“Bird in Hand,” the story of which lias
already been outlined in Shows, is Adelaide
Repertory’s first play this season. In it
Hubert Sands does his best work to date,
and he is well supported by_ Charles Langley,
Thelma Baulderstone, Mimi Mattin, Wallace
Johnstone, Jack Fox and Jack Ham. It s
a pleasant comedy, overloaded with talk, and
■with the sardine merchant’s nightshirt as
its main piece of fun. The acting was un-
usually good and level.
¥ ¥ ¥
“The Wrecker,” which started the life of
the remodelled Brisbane Majesty’s, is still
clanking strongly at time of writing. Quite
an O.K. show, even if it is not a “Ghost
Train.” Nellie Bramley makes her best effort
in the comedy line to date in “It Pays to
Advertise,” which slogan is being exploited
at the Royal. The expected lessening of
Nellie’s crowds with the opening of His
Majesty’s hasn’t happened. In fact, the
show is going stronger than ever, and next
week will celebrate a year’s occupancy of
the house with three changes of prog. The
offerings will be “Irish Cinderella,” “The
Fortune Teller” and “Anne 100 Per Cent.”
¥ ¥ ¥
Helping along the limbless soldiers, the
amateur party who call themselves the Vaga-
bonds staged A. E. Thomas’s “Her Husband’s
Wife” at St. James’s Hall, Sydney, last week.
Good acting by Valetta Cohen and pretty
good by Lulu Vincent seemed rather wasted
on the inept comedy.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Pisk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
‘STONEWALL
SHOES FOR MEN
ŵ
Write Desk B for Catalogue.
“Stonewall”
Extra Comfort Boot.
Bp 131. In High-grade Wallaby. Roomy
Fit. Welted Soles. Half Sizes.
Black Calf Derby Stitched Soles 19/11
Stonehide Soles 23/6
Postage, 1/- ; Interstate, IJB.
JACKSONS
"STONEWALL' STORES
Cm Pitt £, Goulburn S u Sydney
SSaES
The Sign of
QUALITY
The Wunderlich Trademark is
a sign of quality —it is your
guarantee of sterling value in
the following materials:—
Art Metal Ceilings, Terra Cotta
Roofing Tiles, Asbestos Cement
(Durabestos) Building Sheets.
Look for the trademark on these
products, when you purchase.
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
NO BIGGER’N MURBELS, MEBBE.
"You ought to see my garden, Mr. Tregear — l’ve got plums as big as apples.”
“Es; but what size apples be they?”
“Grafton”: Jack Radley, well known as
a successful fisherman on the Lower Man-
ning, has broken tlis own record and many
others as well, including the Australasian
record for a single line catch. He rigged a
“Jacob/’ line with 650 hooks, intending to
clean up all the snapper in the Pacific.
He thought he had done it, too, when he
attempted to land the. catch, and indulged
in visions .of a glutted snapper market.
But the haul was s<X> sharks. Even Zane
Gray couldn't equal that for a single line.
They were mostly babies, up to four feet,
but a number of embryo young man-eaters
were amongst them. Rigging a “Jacob”
line is a favorite pursuit with up-river
fishermen. I've seen 30 fine cod on such a
line. But a catch of 500 of any sort of fish
on a single line takes a lot of beating.
* * * *
“Wreckybite”: At the rear of our house,
on the edge of the scrub, is a mass
of blackberry bushes behind which
Hopeful, aged three years, was
wont to disappear every evening
before sunset. One afternoon I
took up a position in a gum-tree
overlooking the bushes. Some time
later the boy emerged from the
house, making straight for the
favored .spot. Directly he was
hidden from the house he sat down
on the ground and began crooning
This went on for some time, and
then, to my horror, I saw a huge
goanna emerge from the scrub, to
be greeted joyously by the child,
who, after giving the reptile a per-
functory pat, mounted it, Sloan
fashion, and digging it in the ribs,
set off at a brisk trot. Round and
round the small clearing they
careered until the go’ ran itself to
a standstill. The child dismounted,
and then, as if prearranged, out of
the scrub ran live young gounnns,
each to be greeted in turn by th
child. During these proceedings 1
looked on spellbound, but the sight
of the child and the young goannas,
formed in a circle, commencing a
game of ring-a-rosy was too much
for a city-bred parent. Letting out
a yell, I dropped from my hiding-place
the reptiles took to the scrub and I carried
the child home. That’s why we moved to
the city.
* * * *
“Mullarula”: I wonder if the Wild West
yarns published in American magazines are
as true to life as the Australian yarns that
sometimes got into print in Yankeeland. I
have just read one about the Northern Terri-
tory, which tells how the silence in the hut
was broken only by the slither of a carpet-
snake across the bark roof. One of the
characters pauses to spit with “unerring
accuracy” at a centipede wriggling across
the door, though the hut is in the desert.
The hero “absent-mindedly” flicks a bull-ant
off the leg of his trousers without even paus-
ing in his conversation. The hero, a
“ranger,” was careless enough to go out one
day without his revolver, but succeeded in
overpowering a bunch of “bushrangers” with
the aid of his trusty “bull-whip.” This put
a stop to the plan of the desperadoes to
round up all the “wild cattle” in the district,
shoot them on a beach and place the meat
on board a Dutch steamer for shipment to
Java. Personally, I would hate butchering
under such conditions as much as I would
hate eating the meat; but no doubt bush-
rangers of to-day know their own business.
SOMETHING WITH A KICK IN IT, ANYHOW.
GERT: “Poor uncle suffers so from his liver and takes a little canter every morning.”
BERT : “M’yes. But it’s the big decanter the night before that really causes the trouble.”
“Eureka”: The bush parson was on his
first visit to a sparsely populated district iu
the mountains beyond Bombala and was
anxious to find any members of his denomina-
tion there, lie met a country girl and asked
her, “Do you know if there are any Wes-
leyans in this district?” “I don’t think so,”
solemnly answered the girl, who had never
been out of the bush; “the boys haven’t ever
shot one.”
# * * *
“Mundowie”: Recent references to the
missions in the wilds of W.A. recall that
two black girls who were trained in Perth
to teach at the Forrest River Mission
Station are the daughters of the Rev. James
Noble, the only aboriginal minister in Aus-
tralia. lie was ordained in St. George’s
Cathedral, Perth, after a varied career in
different States. As a piccaninny, he was
picked up in the Normanton_ (Q.) district
by a drover, who took him to Scone
(N.S.W.), and he was educated at the
Grammar School there. Besides being a
brilliant scholar he was a fine athlete, and
many bookmakers tried to get hold of him ;
but his desire for mission work among liis
own people took him back north, where he
met the Rev. Gribble, of W.A., who was
prominent some time ago in a case in which
police were accused of shooting blacks.
Gribble became his mentor, and married him
to an educated W.A. gin.
* * * *
“V.11.R.”: The Tasmanian Fisheries Com-
missioners will soon be faced with the pro-
blem pf a run-out race of trout. During a
recent fishing expedition at the lakes I was
amazed at the number of trout containing
the spawn of two and sometimes three years,
proving that the fish are not following their
natural habits. This applies particularly
to rainbow trout (Salmo iridens), and the
defect may be due to the fact that these fish,
which are seagoing by nature, are land-
locked. As a river fish they have proved a
failure in the Speck; they have disappeared
from nearly every river in which they were
liberated. Presumably they have gone to
sea, but the queer part is that they clear
out for good. The rainbow is indigenous
to the streams of California, but it migrates
to and from the sea like its cousins the
Pacific and Atlantic salmon.
* * * *
“Up North”: Some wonderful timbers
grow far up the Valala River, New Guinea.
Some are so tough as to defy an axe. Fve
seen native canoes that had to be split with
dynamite to destroy them (the vessels had
been used for murderous raids). The paddles
for those vessels were extraordinarily tough
and surprisingly light. Ideal aeroplane
blades could surely be made from some of
these woods.
“Slicker”: According to the blacks, wnose
word I take, it is the cock emu who rears
the clutch of chicks. W hen the boys are
about the age of going into long trousers, and
the girls begin to use a powder-puff and look
at themselves in a glass, the old man kicks
out the young bucks and keeps the giins
for himself. The young bucks have to wait
till next year, when they collect the first
clutch of chicks they see and later repeat
pa’s performance. A blackfellow also told
me, though he had never seen it himself,
that emus fight by reaching across and grab-
bing the base of the other’s wing, a la Mus-
covy drake in action, and then bringing their
feet into play.
* :Ie * *
“Pigcat”: The daddy of all water-spoiling
pests in Queensland is the wallaroo. A few
sheep, a horse or two and a scrub bull
don’t improve the flavor of a 30.000-yard
tank; but they don’t spoil the water, while
one wallaroo will make an unholy mess of it.
This fellow, after being in the water a few
days, crumbles to pieces in hair-fine lengths.
When lie’s dissolved it’s impossible to dip a
quart of water from the dam without finding
a bit of the wallaroo in it. Kangaroos and
wallabies don’t have that peculiarity. But
the wallaroo, in common with the turkey, is
one of those creatures whose heart beats
after death, resembling goannas and other
cold-blooded beasts in that respect.
* * * *
“Aragun”: I remember when Big Bill blew
the pub down whistling for his dog. I was
having tea with Lanky Joe, the crack
northern bullocky, 15 miles away when we
heard the crash. “Must be an explosion at
the mine,” said Joe just as something crashed
through the roof and landed on the table
between us. It was a case of Johnny Walker,
and, after investigating its contents, we de-
duced what had happened. Lanky Joe, by
the way, drove a team loaded with copper
ore from Cangai across the Clarence when
she was up 25ft. at the crossing—he knew
every bullock by its bubble. The language
of his old green parrot, which used to ride
on top of the load, was so sultry that it
smelted the ore, and instead of three tons of
bagged stone Joe delivered Bcwt. of copper-
rivets. It was Joe who broke in a team of
Clarence River rock cod to fetch the rafts
down to the mills. They drowned three
crack teams of bullocks in a scratch pull
for the championship of the coast, and Lanky
employed three tribes of blacks hunting wal-
labies to keep ’em in tucker. The blacks
went on strike once and the long ’un was
caught feeding his cods on station bullocks
coming to drink at the river. He got three
years for it; he reckons the tugboat man put
him away to get the rafting back.
A week agp last Wednesday I showed
him the picture of the 7ft. cod they are stuff-
ing for Sydney Museum, and he immediately
recognised old Rattler, his offside leader. I
left him writing to the Service Dept, for
advice about a claim for compensation.
(Continued on next page.)
PHANTASMAGORIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is no light of stars to-night;
The clouds are hanging low;
Above my bed, far overhead,
A branch swings to and fro.
A gentle tap, an eerie rap
Where swings a shred of bark,
And eerie voices come to me
Like echoes in the dark.
They rise and fall, a sigh, a call,
A laugh, a woman’s scream;
Anon I hear a waterfall,
Anon a chattering stream.
1 hear the strum of reed and drum
Where plain and mountain meet;
On fallen spines of cypress pines
Tread shuffling, ghostly feet.
A snatch of song from hills afar,
Weird laughter close at hand,
And from the plains there float the strains
Born of a gum-leaf band.
A tree is moaning dismally
Where crossing branches rub;
A wonga sadly calls its mate
That’s nesting in the scrub.
Beside the river’s towering banks
Where clustered shadows lurk
Grim spectres play at hide-and-seek,
While faces leer and smirk.
Long bony fingers point at forms
That drift by silently,
Their mouths agape in awful shape,
Their faces turned to me.
And ere I sleep a rumble deep
Booms over hill and plain,
A patter like ten thousand feet —
Far off I hear the rain.
Then low, then high, a call, a sigh,
A muffled whispering,
The blackened, sodden camp-fire log
Whines like a living thing.
N.S.W.
JIM FRAHAME.


PEAPES
clothe men AND their sons.
Peapes’ New Winter Catalogue
just issued provides an
excellent insight into the newest
ideas in men’s and boys’ wear
of QUALITY, VALUE and
SERVICE.
A copy will be posted to any
address promptly on request.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
m
m
SIZEnTWO
SILK CUT VIRGINIA
DR AP
vONDON
EYS
1® for <J)dL CIGARETTES 2® for E/&
They Satisfy
because they are made from 100
per cent, pure Virginia tobacco,
thoroughly matured. “Greys”
have a reputation they cannot
afford to lose; they are therefore
consistent in their perfect quality.
“Greys” protect your palate and
leave no after taste. Let your
next smoke be a “GREYS.”
Of course you
know “Greys
Heavyweights”
are now 1/- for
10 ; 2/- for 20.
Stockmen!
/luck 'tym.JcUs
IfwLcAuyhJtzCctAScn
Homebush Yards,
Sydney,
or
Enoggera Yards,
Brisbane.
Auctions in both markets conducted by stock depart-
ment managers. Cattle, sheep, lambs, pigs and calves
all realise top values at the firm’s sales.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Winchcombe
Bridge Street,
STOCK SALESMEN,
House, and 99-101
Sydney,
LTD
Eagle Street,
Brisbane.
“N’lmporte”: The abos. at Cape Bedford
Mission Station have a sense of humor. I
was there recently with another white man
who was doing some carpentry jobs. A
kookaburra (known to the abo. folk as
“kooka,” prophet of tine weather) perched
above us and commenced to chatter out its
prophecy. My mate looked up and then
turned to Samuel, a genial old abo. from
Coen way. “Him kooka good feller, eh,
Sam?” he said grinning. Samuel grinned
too. “Yes, boss; him kooka tellem plurry
lie too sometime.” Sam looked knowingly
at the hillside and then to seaward. We
could see nothing, but in less than half an
hour came a tearing cyclonic storm that
kept us away from Cooktown for three days.
* * * *
“Chiljoul”: Scientists and Abo. liars fre-
quently refer to the slapping signals made
by the platypus on the water of a stream
“with his broad, Hat tail.” I’ve had an
opportunity of watching the beast-bird re-
cently, and the noise is not made by the tail
at all. Friend Plat, makes his appearance
just about sundown, swimming slowly with
his beak open—the lower half of the bill
appears to glide just on or below the water-
surface and the upper part is raised well
in the air. Then, to the accompaniment
of splashes, as fish leap in the air with
fright all down tin; stream, the upper part
of the bill descends three times or so on
the lower —slap, slap, slap! The signals do
not seem to attract Plat.’s proposed tucker,
but rather to scare the fish away.
* * * *
“Monkey Jarra”: There’s a better game
than farming available on some of the
swamps back of Coraki, on the Richmond
River (N.S.W.). There, for some weeks
in the early part of the year, wild duck
may be slaughtered in thousands. This yeur,
one man —the fortunate holder of a lease of
swamp-land—has been able to bag his 100
birds before breakfast. He nets ss. a pair
for them in Sydney, so that his breakfast
is cheered by the reflection that he has made
£l2 10s. less exes, between dawn and sunrise.
In five weeks he had £lB7 10s. to buy powder
and shot with.
«• * * *
“Murrungurry”: There is evidence that
Binghi regulated the size of his family to
TOO BAD!
BILL : “All those rich blokes’ money is tainted.”
BERT: “Yeh, that’s right. ’Tain’t yours and ’tain’t mine.”
fit the circumstances. In mid-eastern N. S.
Wales, a very rich country from Binghi’s
point of view, I noticed that the families
ranged from two to four, twos being much
more common than fours. Without restric-
tions, all the east-coastal towris must have
become very thickly populated, for tribal
wars didn’t account for very many. But
the tribes seemed to maintain a certain
numerical strength. Along the Murray
River and thereabouts two to four children
was the common allowance, according to the
times and the food supply. In the poorer
towris of the interior the population was
smaller, keeping within the limits of the
country’s natural resources. A sickly picca-
ninny seldom lived very long.
“Lucerne Flea”: A German neighbor of
mine always curses stinkwort and his, father
in the same breath, and one day I inquired
the reason. "Veil, you see,” said old Her-
man “my farder brought it here andt planted
it.” “Whatever did he do that for?” I asked,
"To smoke der bacon mit,” was the reply.
“In Shermany dey uses it for bacon curing,
andt first-rate bacon it make, too. I alvays
uses it.” Herman’s bacon is first-rate. too.
* * «
“Pick”: Homing animals trust neither to
landmarks nor to
roads - that they
saw on the out-
ward trek, but en-
tirely to their
sense of direction.
A kelpie that tra-
velled the circuitous
route from Monaro
(N.S.W.) through
Talbingo to Albury
lost his owner in
that town and at
once set off for
home. Making no
attempt to retrace
the way he had
co m e he struck
across totally un-
known country,
and was seen for-
aging for himself
inTum b a r-
umba. lie reached
home days before
his owner. Two
horses that never
previously ha d
been o flf their
native farm at
I’ambula on the
N.S.W. S o u t. h
Coast were packed
and ridden over 30i)
miles to the (lar-
a n g u 1 a goldfield.
To miss the rough
going on the direct
route through
Kiandra, they were
taken the round-
about way through
Qucanbeyan an d
Yass. Shortly
after arrival on
the goldfield they
levanted for home
and were seen pass-
ing through Wool-
way on the direct
mountain route. A
bullock bred on
Bungarby station
(N.S.W.) was pur-
chased by a Bom-
bala butcher, who, .
in search of other fats, drove him,
with others, over a wide detour that
led through Bobundarah and Nimmi-
tabel. A few days after arrival at
Bombala the bullock reappeared on lus
run at Bungarby. He had come in a direct
line across the fences and plains of Gunning-
rah, the Cambalong and McLaughlin rivers
and the rugged Mountain Ash ranges.
* * * *
“Vulagi”: Suva’s gaol, and the anxiety
of prisoners not to be locked out have been
the source of many quaint
stories, but it has re-
mained for a country
gaol, native-built with
thatch roof and walls, to
supply the star turn. The
residence' of one of the
local sugar-mill “sahibs”
was robbed one night,
valuable rings and dress-
ing-table silverware being
taken from the bedroom.
The affair was a total
mystery for some time,
and no wonder, for it
eventually came to light
that the native sergeant
of police, taking the
magistrate’s boat and a
crew of Fijian prisoners
to row it, was respon-
sible for the job. A jeal-
ous dusky beauty gave the show away, and a
probing of the gaol thatching revealed plates
and dishes from every meat-safe for miles
around —mute evidence of many a feed of
'something better than trade salmon and hard
“bisiketi.”
* * * *
“Pudden”: Pigeons aren’t the only birds
which decline further parental duties once
they have weaned a family. That is a rule
with almost all birds. Unlike pigeons,
though, they don’t go and leave ’em in the
nest. They hunt ’em out. To-day all is
well and the youngsters have loving and
devoted parents. To-morrow morning little
Jackie Peewit goes for his breakfast. Two
screeching furies meet him—mum taking a
hand as well as dad —and Johnny has to go
for the lick of his life to escape. It is the
same with wagtails, blue martins and crows.
The most affectionate parents I know are
the brolgas. They keep their kids withi them
till its hard to tell -othei from which .n
the matter of size, and they seem to spin
by mutual consent when the mating season
comes round again. # *
, ~u mpi ,
The Arab . G'm of ta ® g^ an( | fi ald h ? ea
of the spacious days in the I acific befor.
the missionaries tame was I arritoot, th.
mar mite of the island of Maraeut, now called
Waverley Island because it is so often seen
ALL THE OTHER SORT.
“Father, what are diplomatic relations?”
“Diplomatic relations? There are none, my boy.”
in mirages. Parritoot, when I met him, was
well over 100 years of age, but he ruled his
tribe with firmness and decision. Once a
month, in the full of the moon, he used to
hold court, and his people submitted their
disputes to him for adjudication. I was
invited to sit beside him on such occasions,
and I marvelled at his sagacity. One case
in particular interested me. Two women,
young and comely, came before him, and one
laid a small brown babe at his feet. Then
both started to talk, nineteen to the dozen. I
knew enough of the lingo to decipher that
the women both disowned the child, whiph
squealed lustily. Both had recently been
mothers; in a great tribal festival both had
got drunk on bawee, a very powerful tipple
brewed in those parts, and when they woke
up one infant was missing. I thought of
the judgment of Solomon and waited to see
what Parritoot would do. “Give me a spear,”
he said to the bug-i (priest) who stood at
his right hand. A spear was given him.
He picked up the child by one foot and
pricked it delicately in the abdomen. The
infant screamed vociferously. The women,
struck suddenly silent, looked at one another.
Parritoot, who was the father of 143, then
took the squalling brat on his knee and
soothed it. “To the mother of this child,”
lie said suavely, “shall be given three cows
and 100 cocoanuts.” Both women darted
towards the infant and attempted to grab
it. Parritoot warded them off with the spear.
“Softly, softly,” he purred, “I have not
finished. She shall be given three cows and
100 cocoanuts, and then she shall be thrown
to the w'ild piggi (boars) for their food in
the morrow’s dawn.” The women looked at
one another. Then said one. “O King, live
for ever. Give us each one and a half cows and
50 cocoanuts and we will bring up the man-
child to be one of thy warriors.” “Setting
apart the matter of splitting a cow,” said
Parritoot, still very sweetly, “I think the
idea a good one. We are out of cows and
cocoanuts is off, but your idea is a good
one, and you shall have the child. If harm
befall him—the piggi are always hungry.”
When the women had gone, taking the child
w r ith them, I asked Parritoot to which he
thought it belonged. His eye twinkled merrily.
“To neither,” he said; “I’ve awarded free
board and lodging to one of my own.”
THE MAORIS’ DOG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the talk is of Moke and Moonlight—
of famous “ rushes ” of old, —
Of Skipper's and Mullocky Gully, Clyde and
Kawarau gold,
This talc of two Maori diggers and the
Maoris’ dog is told.
Where the wild Shotover rushes in its forty
miles of gorge,
And the raging, snow-fed waters their way
through the ranges forge,
Back in the golden ’sixties venturesome dig-
gers crept,
For wealth to win (and to squander) under
the shingle slept.
Down through breaks in the ranges grimly
they felt their way,
Slaves to the luring metal which, waiting the
boldest, lay.
Always the siren whispered of a fortune
within their reach,
Whispered of wealth for the winning under
the narrow beach.
Down a track to the river scrambled a seek-
ing pair—
Maori and half-caste Maori —and found a
party there.
But they looked across to westward over
the rushing stream,
And gazed on a stretch of shingle—the beach
of a miner’s dream!
Then the white men spoke in warning: “No
one could live in that tide.
Though the gold be there in plenty it must
stay on the other side.”
But Dan Ellison smiled to the other—
Hakaria Haeroa, his mate —
And calling their ‘log to follow they took
their hazard with fate.
Braving the plunging torrent, fighting their
way they went,
Like playthings hurled by a Titan, while
the anxious miners bent
To watch them, hoping yet fearing, silent
beside the flood
That swirled with an angry clamor round
the diggers of Maori blood.
But these were scions of warriors, sons of
a mighty race,
Proudly scornful of danger with desperate
odds to face.
Gaining little by little, with native cou r&go
and strength
They bested the treacherous current and won
to the beach at length.
But the dog was sport of the river, was swept
away in the flow
Till it clung to a rocky headland three
hundred yards below.
There, beaten and cowed, it shivered and
whined for its master, man.
“We must go and rescue our lcuri” said
Hakaria and Dan.
So they went where the dog was stranded;
and Ellison saw the gleam
Of metal, banked through the ages in crevices
by the stream.
With their strong, bare hands they labored,
and ere the darkness rolled
The dauntless pair had gathered three hun-
dred ounces of gold!
Potter’s and Bracken’s and Blut-skin, Tink-
er’s and Highlay Hill—
Greybeard sons of the diggers speak of their
wonders still
When they tell their fathers’ stories of the
roaring days of gold ;
And ’tis then this tale of two Maoris —and
the Maoris’ dog—is told.
MAORILAND.
RIVERINA.


||R
T'J
m
««*
I
m
m
ip
'Si'*'"
m
is
GUARANTEED MADE BY
EASTMAN NO DAN C°Y
Important Announcement!
FREE TO SMOKERS
of
“ Vice Regal” Cigarettes, 15’s Packets and 50’s and 100’s Flat Tins
“Three Castles” Cigarettes, 15’s Packets and 50’s and 100’s Flat Tins
“ Capstan ” (Ooal) Cigarettes, 25’s, 50’s and 100’s Flat Tins
“Player’s” Cigarettes, 18’s Packets
“Country Life” Cigarettes, 15’s and 50’s Tins
A No. 2 Cartridge Hawk-Eye Model “C”
CAMERA
(Guaranteed made by the Kodak Company)
This Camera is finished in handsome black leatherette, fitted with view finder, is daylight loading, and
takes excellent pictures x. inches. TO OBTAIN THE CAMERA colled the Coupons now
enclosed in any of the above well-known brands of Cigarettes, and when you have collected 100, write
your name and address plainly on a piece of paper and enclose with Coupons and bring or forward to
W. D. & H. O. WILLS (Australia) LTD.
KENT & BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
411-423 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Or Cnr. MURRAY & MILLIGAN STS., PERTH,
who in return will present you with the Camera as advertised.
COUPONS NOT REDEEMABLE AFTER 31st DECEMBER, 1929
START COLLECTING NOW!
and forward as soon as you have the requisite number.


WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most-up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydneyl
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
GILT-EDGED SECURITY
“Silver Edge”
BRAKE
FOR ALL
MOTORISTS.
4 W
WONT FAIL YOU!
“Gold Edge”
LINING
RAYBESTOS BELACO LTD
LONDON.
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Melb.
THE
Farmers 8 Settlers
Co-operative Insurance
Co. of Australia, Ltd.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL,
£250,000
Fire, Accident, Marine, Motor-car,
Workers’ Compensation, Growing
Crops, Stacks, Wool, Fencing.
SPECIALISING IN INSURANCE
FOR THE MAN ON THE LAND
ACTIVE AGENTS REQUIRED
WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
N.S.W. Office:
Wingelo House, Angel Place, Sydney
F. D. POWELL, Manager.
THE MAM
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CBPARK & CASNEREAGH STS SYDNEY
PRIZES FOR FARM HINTS.
Thousands of men fail on the land be-
cause they don’t know how to succeed;
many thousands more succeed less than
they should because they lack proper
guidance.
“The Bulletin” wants to encourage
farmers and scientists who know to help
those who don’t know.
With that object it offers two prizes of
£2O and £lO for the most useful contri-
butions to the “Land” pages during the
six months ending June 30 next.
AH contributipns submitted, whether
published or not, will be considered in
awarding points, and the prizes will go
to the winners of most points.
Points will be awarded for interest and
practical usefulness.
The prizes are additional to the usual
payment for published contributions.
4
HOME-MADE SUPER.
“Nitric”: The manufacture of superphos-
phate on a small scale is practicable and
profitable on farms where bones have accumu-
lated—especially after the recent drought.
The bones must first be burnt, which con-
verts them into bone-ash, as fresh bones pro-
duce a slimy mass, very difficult to dry, on
treatment with an acid.
A receptacle which will not be acted on
by sulphuric acid is required—a wooden
trough lined with lead will suit admirably,
though a wooden trough pitched inside or
a hole in the ground lined with cement will
answer the purpose. In this receptacle the
ingredients are mixed. To every 401 b. of
bone ash add one gallon of water and 151 b.
strong sulphuric acid (commercial oil of
vitriol). First pour the whole of the water
into the empty tank and then add the sul-
phuric acid gradually, stirring with a wooden
pole. The acid combines violently with the
water, and the above directions must be fol-
lowed accurately. Now add gradually a
little at a time, the bone ash. stirring con-
stantly with a stout pole. The above pro-
portions should yield a mass of the con-
sistency of stiff dough. If it is not stiff
enough add some more bone ash. Leave it
for a few hours, when it will dry to a finely-
divided state. Protect it from rain whilst
drying. When dry the fertiliser is ready
for use.
The acid does not dissolve the bone ash,
and the resulting “super.” is very similar to
the original bone ash, but it is acid in char-
acter.
LUCERNE IN WESTRALIA.
“Westralian”: The growing of lucerne
among breeders of Gnowangerup (W.A.) dis-
trict, one of the most prominent for studs
in the West, is generally on a long rotation
of five or six years. The soil is principally
red diorite, and the rainfall about 17in. to
18in., nearly all of which falls in the winter
months. The country is fallowed in June
and July, and seeded with the second spring
working in September, relying on any sum-
mer rain for its germination and growth.
The following autumn it is generally sown
with oats and perhaps with Wimmera rye-
grass. This feed is top-dressed in the fol-
lowing autumn, which brings up a fresh
growth of grass and clovers, and the paddock
is then left in grass for the rest of the rota-
tion. Areas under lucerne in the district
are from 250 acres to 1500 acres.
WESTRALIAN WHEAT-GROWING
METHODS.
“Westerner”: Critics in the Eastern States
and some of our own sages condemn the
Westralian practice, where the rainfall per-
mits of it, of putting in large acreages of
wheat “off the plough,” and of having large
areas of unworked fallow, but there’s good
sound reasons for it. In the first place it
must be remembered that in most cases where
such methods are adopted the farmer is
bringing new land into cultivation, and the
ordinary rules don’t apply. One of the
advantages of the system is that it is easier
to grow 12 bushels on two acres than to
grow 24 bushels on one acre. There are
no sheep to consider, as new land will not
grow feed. Also, new land, fallowed, does
not grow many weeds, so working of the
fallow can be dispensed with. The extra
acreage, both fallow and crop, though it
costs more in seed, super, and depreciation
of plant, is the making of grazing country
where none existed before. After the graz-
ing country has been established, of course,
such methods are economically indefensible.
DODDER AMONG LUCERNE.
“Wrecksby”: Dodder is the most serious
pest the lucerne grower has to contend with.
It is a leafless parasitical plant, with
thread-like stalks that twine around the
lucerne stems, which it punctures by means
of aerial roots to absorb the sap. When a
number of plants are affected this results in
the so-called “ringworm” patches so often
seen in lucerne paddocks. The trouble is
easily preventable, because the dodder seed is
much smaller than that of lucerne, and the
latter should be put into a sieve made of
a wire mesh just close enough to prevent the
lucerne seed going through.
Once dodder has appeured measures should
be taken to extirpate it before it has
a chance to seed. This is best i done by cut-
ting the infested plants and burning them.
The mowed area should then be sprayed
with a solution of sulphate of iron in the
proportion of lib. to Bgal. of water. This
will kill any dodder remaining and will act
as a fertiliser to stimulate the cut plant and
enable it to put out healthy growth.
If a paddock is badly infested the only
course is to plough it and rake the lucerne
into heaps to be burnt. The land should
then lie fallow for a time, being scarified
occasionally to allow all the dodder seed to
germinate and perish in the absence of a
foster parent. Tire paddock may then be
safely sown again and the trouble should
not reappear if the seed has been carefully
sieved before sowing.
UP WITH THE FENCE!
“ Jolinno”: When bringing a new block of
scrub land under cultivation, it is important,
particularly where there are straying stock
about, to enclose the ground with a secure
fence at the earliest possible moment. It is
a great mistake to wait for the fencing
till the burning-off has been completed and
the crops are in. If it is not possible to
do so beforehand, the ground should be
fenced immediately the fire has been put
through the felled scrub, the lumping and
subsequent burning-off being done afterwards.
Neglect to observe this precaution has often
resulted in crippling expense to the inex-
perienced or careless, the ground sometimes
having to be abandoned and allowed to revert
to scrub because it has not been possible to
get rid of noxious plants and smothering
weeds, the seeds of which were sown by
straying stock and inquisitive marsupials.
It is a fact well-known to land-holders that
a newly burnt-off area of ground has a
peculiar attraction for marsupials, such as
wallabies, bandicoots and kangaroo-rats, and
for straying stock, which will explore every
yard of the fire-swept ground, often before
the heat of the fire has left it. The result
is a liberal sowing of the ground with the
seeds of undesirable plants, deposited with
their droppings, which have germinated and
are up and growing vigorously before the
farmer is even, thinking of sowing his crops.
The commonest seeds sown are couch-grass
and button-weed, two difficult plants to
eradicate once they obtain a footing, especi-
ally in land of volcanic origin.
WHO INVENTED THE REAPER AND
BINDER?
“Old Cocky”: Though the claim is often
made on his behalf, McCormack wasn’t the
inventor of the reaping machine. This was
an English invention, and several makers
were turning them out long before McCor-
mack went into business. The first self
raking-off reaper was a Samuelson (English).
The wire-binder may have been McCormack’s
idea, but a Woods machine, also American,
came out about the same time with the
same feature. The twine-binder soon followed,
to the great joy of the farmers ; but Wood
and Appleby were the inventors, respectively,
of the two types of twine-binders in use.
McCormack brought out a twine-binder, but
the knotting device was a failure, and, in com-
mon with other manufacturers, he had to pay
royalties to Appleby. The millionaires in
the harvester trade only began to develop
when the amalgamation of various American
manufacturers raised the price to nearly
double and reduced the cost of marketing.
facts and figures about lime.
“R.D.A.”: Liming does pay. A neighbor
in the Pingelly district (W.A.) bought 800
acres (improved) 12 years ago; the carry-
ing capacity was 200 sheep, besides cropping
250 acres, and the “grazing" silvergrass
mostly. The sheep were small, never grew
much wool and could never be got past store
condition, were unthrifty and threw a
low percentage of lambs. Six years ago my
neighbor began applying lcwt. of ground cal-
cium carbonate per acre over 200 acres annu-
ally. With his crops he used 001 b. of the lime
and 751 b. super. The ground limestone cost him
355. per ton landed and the super £5 ss.
To-day the same farm is carrying (after
six years of this treatment) over 000 sheep,
big-framed, well-woolled, always near-fat or
fat. The lambing percentage (marked) is
far above the average, and the sheep are
always healthy. My neighbor crops 300
acres, runs eight horses and eight head of
dairy cattle —the equivalent of 100 sheep.
Silvergrass and speargrass are negligible,
whilst clovers (native), “geranium," etc.,
predominate, and the improvement in his
crops is substantial. The rainfall is 17Ain., and
only 100 acres of the farm is first-class land.
My neighbor puts the results of his experi-
ence this way: “In six years, by the expendi-
ture of £2OO in applying lime, I have
increased the carrying capacity to at least
000 sheep, the gross return for that increase
being £l5OO, or £l3OO net profit—£2oo a
year.”
Again, take the Ivybybolite (S.A.) experi-
mental station report (covering 10 years’
experiments), which was published last year
in the S.A. Journal of Agriculture. In the
test 1 ton lime (once every 10 years) and
lcwt. high-grade super, annually were
applied per acre. The results were an
increase of carrying capacity (sheep) from
not quite one per acre on the untreated plots
(checks) to approximately 3.5 sheep per
acre on the plots treated. The lime- and
super.-treated plot showed an increase in
carrying capacity of one sheep per acre over
a plot treated with lcwt. super, alone.
Taking the profit per sheep at 15s. p.a. and
the cost of lime at 3s. per cwt., the business
end shows an extra income of 15s. at a cost
of 65., a profit of 9s. due to the lime. The
one application covers 10 years’ use.
When properly handled there is no “case
against lime.” But don’t think lime will
mend wet, low-lying and sour soils—that’s a
drainage problem.
SHEEP ON STUBBLE.
“Sutro”: In Britain, where dairy cows are
housed for a few months during the cold
season, the litter in the stalls is swept out
every other day and thrown on to a large
heap. Just before , the ploughing takes place
the men go “dung-carting,” as it is called,
sometimes for a fortnight, and as each load
is tipped in the cultivation paddocks it is
spread ready for ploughing under.
In Australia, where the same conditions
do not apply, a similar result may be obtained
by combining fallowing with sheep. Run the
sheep on to the stubble instead of burning
the latter, and let them graze on it. A great
deal of the straw is eaten, and the balance
is broken and trampled into the ground and
put into such a state that it can be ploughed
under easily without interfering with the tex-
ture of the land. The sheep in the meantime
are fertilising the ground rather more effec-
tively than the application of the farmyard
manure could do it and certainly at much
less labor cost.
The sheep should never be allowed on the
cultivation area when weather is likely to
be wet. When they have been taken off a
paddock it can be ploughed up and left in
the “comb,” to be broken down later by
heavy harrow's when the fallow becomes over-
run by weeds. The ploughing under of the
straw and manure will add to the value of
the fallowing that will take place after-
wards, for it will not only enrich the soil
and improve its texture, but will leave the
soil in a better condition to benefit by sun,
air, rain and frost.
PLANTS AND WATER.
“Hortus”: Plants can absorb the mineral
constituents of their food only in the form
of a solution, and this solution must be
weak, or it may have a poisonous effect.
For example, sulphate of ammonia is a, valu-
able manure, but if a considerable amount
be dissolved in water and applied to the roots
of a growing plant the plant will die.
It is a necessary consequence of the fact
that plants can only absorb weak solutions
of their food salts that their roots take in
more water than is actually needed by the
plant. The surplus water goes off through
the leaves, the process being called transpira-
tion. Transpiration takes place faster in a
tree, which grows up into dry layers of
air, than in a plant of low habit like grass.
It takes place faster in windy weather than
in calm. Other things being equal, it takes
place faster in warm weather than in cold,
and the larger the plant and the more
numerous its leaves, the more water returns
to the air from the soil.
Hence forest trees require more water than
grass. It has been calculated that a beech
plantation aged 50 to 60 years gives off
during the growing season 354 tons of water
per acre. The effect of tree-planting in
marshy regions of France and Italy has been
that the marshes have disappeared.
Farmers would do well, then, to recognise
the value of tree-planting when endeavoring
to reclaim boggy country. The trees, plux
a good system of drainage, will tend gradu-
ually to bring about a dry area, covered
with good grass—not rank and unpalatable
like marshy grass, which is in some cases
injurious. Not only this, but good shelter
will be provided for stock, a very important
and necessary factor in successful farming.
THE COMING BEEF FAMINE.
“FY7”: In a leading article recently
the London Times indicated yet another
avenue of salvation for the vanishing Aus-
tralian beef export trade, and one that it is
not yet too late to take advantage of, if
Governments and growers could be induced
to handle the situation determinedly. The
Times, however, is of the opinion that they
will not, as far as Australia and Maoriland
are concerned, since cattle are steadily de-
creasing in the Commonwealth and barely
keeping up with home consumption in the
Dominion. The opportunity pointed out is
that the Argentine is steadily dropping out
of the cattle business, the increasing popu-
lation making it more profitable to put the
pastures under plough or sheep. Last year
the Argentine slaughtered 400,000 fewer
cattle than in the previous period, a reduc-
tion of 12$ p.c., while chilled and frozen
beef exports were 24 p.c. lower. Putting
aside Australia as quite out of the hunt,
the Times suggests that salvation for the
eaters of beef may lie in Eastern Africa,
particularly in Southern Rhodesia and other
proved cattle-raising areas of vast extent.
However much it may hurt, to say so, the
Times is only too well justified in its sum-
ming up of the situation. Australia ix out of
the hunt, and largely by her own fault. Whe-
ther the country will stay out definitely as an
important producer of export beef only the
future can show, but it must be admitted
that it has been getting further behind every
year.
ABERDEEN-ANGUS CATTLE.
“W.P.D.”: The recent importation by ,t’ne
N. S. Wales Government of Aberdeen-Angus
cattle from Canada should draw the attention
of Australian cattlemen to the great value of
the pure Aberdeen-Angus breed. The demand
for stud bulls and cows is increasing in
Queensland and elsewhere in Australia, but
it should be greater. The climate and
general conditions suit the black poleys
admirably, and they pay well. Grade year-
ling steers sold at auction bring £2 a head
more than steers of the same age of other
breeds. So prepotent are the bulls that when
they are mated with cows of other breeds
practically every calf is a poley, hardly to
be distinguished from a pure Aberdeen-
Angus. They are wonderful doers, maturing
quickly, small in the bone, and producing
meat on the joints that fetches the highest
price ruling. Fat is evenly distributed
amongst the lean, giving a marbled beef of the
primest quality, and the fact of their being
hornless is of great importance in a State
such as Queensland, where cattle have to
be railed for distances up to 1000 miles.
Breeding of A.-A. cattle is on the up-grade,
but their good points are not yet known or
appreciated by cattlemen in Australia as
they should be.
BROWN SPANISH ONION SEED.
“Will Seer”: The Victorian brown
Spanish onion is world renowned for its
keeping quality, and usually it is a crop
which pays very well, but growing the seed
pays better in my experience. The best
seed is produced from specially selected
bulbs. When the crop is “skimmed,” care-
fully select two or three tons of large, solid,
well-shaped onions (the quantity depending
on the acreage to be planted), and place on
a wire-netting rack. The selected bulbs are
continually looked over and any showing
signs of depreciation are marketed or thrown
aside.
The final look-over takes place in late
June, when solid bulbs, each about Jib.
weight, are planted in shallow holes in well-
worked rich, black, heavy, clay loam, con-
taining about 1 p.c. of lime. Choose a
sheltered position, with a wood or timber
barrier on the north, and plant the onions
in rows 3ft. apart with 2ft. between the
bulbs, which means about one ton to the acre.
Plant firmly and cover so that the top of
each onion is left exposed with the hole only
partly filled in.
Throw a handful of bone and blood, or
similar animal fertiliser, into each hole.
As soon as sprouting occurs (usually a
couple of months) the sprouts are well
covered and the soil tamped down. Should
a bulb sprout prematurely, it is removed and
destroyed. Scuffling and hand-hoeing are
practised regularly until the plants are so
large that there is a danger of damaging the
leaves.
The crop is then permitted to mature. The
seed heads are carefully watched during the
(Continued on page 25.)


Greatest Tyre of
users
know
it by
Results
m
i
x
I
mi
mum
nil '
&
©
m
m ’
JH
w J
I J
I J
terti
A
:*iii
:
r#
jfgsjg
i
lili
••v
■ -
SC CO GARAGES STOCK THEM
others
know
it by
Repute


F
It
*l'
. v
5
A
ii
jr
ft
»
%
k
m
y\
A
b
|pwn
dll.
A SMARTER SIX
Decided improvements in body design make Dodge
Brothers Standard Six a much smarter car with wider
and more comfortable seats and a far more luxurious
interior with richer appointments.
In performance the Standard Six easily lives up to
Dodge Brothers reputation for constructing cars of
exceptional flexibility and pick-up, and riding ease
under all road conditions.
Value and economy are stressed in this powerful and
beautiful motor car.
Dodge Brothers complete line of passenger vehicles includes
the Standard Six, the Victory Six and the Senior Six.
Canada Cycle 8C Motor Co., (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane —Townsville
Harden and Johnston, Ltd., Sydney
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide
.Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Berth .. _
Northern Automobiles, Ltd., Auckland, N.Z.
Amuri Motors, Ltd. .. Christchurch, 2f.Z.
Gossena and Black, Ltd . .. Dunedin, N.Z.
P. H. Vickery, Ltd. .. Invercargill, N.Z,
Newton King, Ltd. .. New Plymouth, iVJ?,
Magnus Motors, Ltd. .. Wellington, NJZ,
Doege Brothers
STANDARD SIX
24/4/’2B.


Best four leathers
Particularly smart in design, this
comfortable Abbey shoe is made
in kid, patent leather and black and
tan calf—only the best obtainable
leathers being used. Flat, squared
toe, arched lacing, low-cut sides
it incorporates every feature making
for neatness and ease. It adapts
itself at bnce to the foot. No
breaking-in!
Postai Orders
Since every half-size is available in
three fittings-—narrow, medium and
wide exact measure is guaranteed.
Specify width when ordering and
ask, also, for a supply of the cor-
rect Abbey Polish.
Tan Willow Calf - - 52/6
Glace Kid - 52/6
Black Box Calf - 50/-
Patent Leather - 60/-
Enlarged catalogue of men’s, women’s
and children’s Jootwear post free on
request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
FPL 121 SYDNEY.
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
No disease has caused more loss in sheep than Fluke,
yet for less than one-fifth of a penny per sheep this
can now be cured by the application of Carbon
Tetrachloride. This process has been tested by the
Agricultural Departments of various States in Aus-
tralia, and has received their endorsement. It
requires preparation and additions before it can be
applied to the sheep, and these are skilfully carried
out in
SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
1 pint tins ... 4/6 5/- each
1 quart tins . . 6/6 7/- each
DOST FREE ON FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins . . 13/6 16/- each
DELIVERED NEAREST RAILWAY STATION
ON FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY., LTD.,
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
VC A
Its Field The Earth
By every means of transportation
Cuticura has reached the farthermost
parts of the world, and for fifty years
has been regarded by millions as un-
rivaled in the promotion of skin and
hair health* Most of the nations of
the earth that rejoice in the cleansing
and purifying properties of Cuticura
have in some degree contributed to
its ingredients. Thus it is of the world
and for the world.
Soap Is., Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment address:
*‘R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.”
ISF"
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
PAY AS YOU GO BY CHEQUE ~
WJf F
1. It eliminates unwise spending.
2. It saves time and many steps in settling bills.
3. It gives prestige to your transactions.
4. It instils respect through your association with a reputable bank.
At this Bank you are allowed Interest on your
minimum quarterly balance.
%
HEAD OFFICE. 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Blanches throughout the Commonwealth and at London
■A.
c
Ss
s'
Illustrated
Catalogue
FREE
The
Strongest
Fencing
on
the
Market
George: “Heavy stuff thi6, Bill.”
Bill: “Yes. It’s ‘KANGAROO*—heaviest fence I know.*
“KANGAROO” RINGLOCK FENCING
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
TASMANIA:
W. HART & SONS PTY., LTD.,
Charles Street,
Launceston.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN FARMERS’ CO-OP.
UNION, LTD.,
36 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND:
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL SUPPLIES, LTD.,
Bowen Street, Brisbane.
MANUFACTURED BY
D. &t W. CHANDLER, LTD.
BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY, VICTORIA.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your fancy, write
to the Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
summer, and as soon as the small seed pods
show signs of cracking, the heads are
harvested, in two harvestings, as they do
not mature all at once.
Place the garnered heads in bran bags,
and hang these on thei fence to dry. Thrash
the bags daily until an examination shows
the heads to be free from seed. The bags
must not be allowed to get wet. Sieve the
thrashed seed through onion sieves (which
are procurable at the ironmongers for a
few shillings), then blow and bag.
Blowing is essential for a good clean pro-
duct, and consists of choosing a fine day
with just a gentle southerly stir in the air,
and permitting the sieved seed to fall about
six feet on to a canvas sheet or tarpaulin.
The light hulls and backbone are carried
away, and the heavy onion seed falls as a
clean, bright sample.
The yield is anything from 1001 b. to 2001 b.
per acre. The price of the seed varies l from
4s. od. to 16s. per lb., but if you sell direct
to the growers, thu usual price is 7s. per lb.
and with a good strain you have little dif-
ficulty in selling.
The seed retains its vitality well, I have
tested seed three years old, and obtained
73 p.c. germination. The best strain is the
original Levien, which keeps for six months
without much loss; as a matter of fact,
50 p.c. of the bulbs will keep for nine
months.
CULTIVATION OF KALE.
“Minthall”: The present time is the best
for sowing the seed of that very useful
fodder plant kale, which appeals to all kinds
of stock. The two kinds worth sowing are
the marrow-stemmed kale (Chou moellier)
and the thousand-headed kale (Brassica
aleracea acephala). Kale isn’t finicky over
soil, and many an indifferent paddock that
has not turned out a paying crop of any
other sort will give a good yield of kale,
given as much cultivation. Reduce the soil
to as fine a tilth as possible, and use up to
2cwt. super., or less super, and a mixture
of nitrate of potash 1 part, dried blood 1
part and sulphate of potash 2 parts, with
about 6 parts of super. Tllousand-headed
kale needs about 21b. to 41b. of seed per acre,
drills about 3ft. apart, and plants the same
distance. Cultivate to keep down weed
growths and keep the leaves pulled off, with
a downward action, and the plants will be
profitable till they run right up to a small
top with a few leaves. Pull them out then
and give them to the grunters. Chou moel-
lier can be had in two varieties, purple and
white, and the leaves, cut off, can be chaffed
or fed whole. Sow with about 12in. to lSin.
between the rows and the same distance
apart for this variety, and when the plants
are running out either fence the paddock
off for the pigs ,or turn the stock in to clean
it off. It is a quick grower, and should be
kept cut to get the full feed value. The
poultry- and pig-farmer can’t do better than
have a patch of both varieties, as it en-
sures green feed when other growths are
off, is soft and succulent, full of vitamines,
and gives the stock a welcome change from
other diet.
ROUP IN POULTRY.
“Claude W.”: Roup, which occasions more
mortality in the poultry yard than all other
ailments combined, commences with a com-
mon cold, an'd is highly contagious. A bird
attacked with running eyes and nostrils, char-
acteristic of this disease, should at once be
shut away from the remainder of the fowls,
and everything it has been in contact with
should be disinfected. If the roup-rattle in the
throat has commenced before detection, there
will be little chance of saving the bird. Pellets
of meal with pepper in them may be forced
down its throat two or three times a day to
keep it from sinking, and a little tincture
of aconite given in small pilules. Give the
bird a strong purgative, and put camphor
in the drinking water. Persevere for a little
while, if it be a good bird, but the chance is
small, for eighty per cent of birds affected
with the disease never recover.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
A cow, first calf, milking about nine
months, has milk in one teat tinged with
blood, the strippings being all blood. This
lasted for a week, gradually getting worse,
until clots of blood would be forced out each
milking, and then gradually got better. About
a month afterwards another teat behaved in
exactly the same manner. What is the
cause, and should the milk be used from the
other teats while one is bad? —9420.
From the description supplied it would
appear that the animal has suffered bruising
or injury to the quarter of the udder from
which blood has issued. The milk received
from the other teats would not be affected in
any way.
(1) How can / get rid of nut grass on the.
headland of a farm? (2) What’s the best
way to deal with Johnson grass in a field?
—9470.
(1) If it is practicable, fence the affected
portion off and include it in the grazing area
of the farm without delay, otherwise farm
implements will carry the grass throughout
the field and it will soon become an ineradi-
cable pest. (2) Don’t let it seed. If the
affected patches are small, permitting of
treatment by poisoning, cut down, dry and
burn the plants and poison the individual
stools. Arsenic pentoxide is suitable for the
purpose and is sold by the secretary, Prickly
Pear Commission, Lands Department, Bris-
bane, from whom inquiry should be made as
to the method of application and the neces-
sary precautions to be taken by the user.
I want to plant soya-beans at Tungaburra
(Q.). (1) What is the price of seeds? (2)
Quantity of seed per acre for sowing? (3)
llcthod of harvesting? (4) Yield) per acre?
—9474.
(1) Communicate with N. A. R. Pollock,
Senior Instructor in Agriculture, Townsville,
with a view to securing small quantities of
Laredo, mammoth yellow, Biloxi or Tokio—•
all suitable to northern conditions. (2) 101 b.
per acre, sown in rows 2ft. 6in. apart, and
the seed spaced Bin. to l()in. in the drills.
Sow any time between September and Janu-
ary. (3) They can be harvested by a mow-
ing-machine, and, if required for purposes of
silage in conjunction with such fodders as
maize or sorghum, can be economically
handled with a reaper and binder where
such is available, taking one or possibly
two rows in a cutting. (4) No records are
available for beans, but 10 to 12 tons of
greenstuff per acre has been garnered where
conditions are favorable.
What are the prospects of angora-goat
raising in Q’land as a profitable occupation
for a married man? —9sos.
Can’t recommend it. Those who have
given it a trial in Q’land have either given
it up or taken up other lines with the goats
as a side-line. Sheep-raising offers better
opportunities of profit.
Which is the better timber for fencing
purposes, gidya or boree, and why? —9s77.
The senior instructor in agriculture,
Townsville, considers boree and gidya equal
in weather resistance. Preference might be
given to gidya for fencing owing to its gen-
erally larger size.
I propose to start poultry farming with
1000 pure Leghorn hens. (1) How many
eggs can I expect a year with good feeding?
(2) Would the fowls do as well on a run
of 10 acres as in small pens? (3) What’s
the average cost of feeding per hen p.a.f (4)
What’s the probable profit (labor at city
rates) ? (5) What arc the prospects of the
egg market and of poultry farming generally?
(6) At what age does a hen cease to be pro-
fitable? (7) What’s a good book on the
subj ec t ? —9G34.
(1) 12 doz. per hen p.a. (2) Yes; better
if properly housed. (3) At Hawkesbury Ag.
Col., Bs. 7d. (4) With eggs averaging Is. (id.
per doz. gross profits would be 9s. (id. Can’t
advise as to labor costs. (5) As good as
at any time in recent years. (0) 2J, and in
exceptional cases, 3£ years. (7) “Poultry
Farming in N.5.W.,” N.S.W. Govt. Printer,
4s. 3d. posted.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“W.M.F.”: Careless use of new harness
is a cause of many sore shoulders and bad
backs. Break it in gradually as you would
your own boots. Do the same with a new
saddle, and keep your saddle-cloth as clean
as you do your socks.
“Robertson” : To rejuvenate a paddock that
has had its best grasses eaten right out, the
cheapest satisfactory method is to get a mob
of woolly sheep out of a paddock where the
grass is full of ripe seed. Run them through
the thickest patches available, turn them
into the eaten-out paddock, and leave them
there for a few days. If rain falls while
they are there, so much the better.
“Sunny Hill”: Most poultry-keepers are
mating up their breeding-pens now. Give
the place a thorough clean-up. Paint the
woodwork with crude kerosene or wood-
preserving oil, spray the other portions of
the houses with an emulsion of softsoap and
kerosene, and disinfect the chooks them-
selves with a good insect powder. Fowls
cannot do their best if hampered by para-
sites, as they generally are. Keep an eye
on the rooster, and if he does not bog in
at meal-times give him a feed of cracked
corn separately at about mid-day.
“Wrash”: To safeguard against galvan-
ised-iron pipes being cracked in frosty
weather, bind them with ropes of twisted
straw and cover with bands of bagging or
hessian sewn with a packing-needle. If thus
covered, exposed pipes will generally resist
the heaviest frost.
“Curlew” : In parts of Victoria red grass
is proving a pest. C. and F. Street, of
Bondiana Park, Wodonga, have got en-
couraging results from lewt. super, per acre
with and without subterranean clover (21b.),
also 2cwt. super, with 21b. clover. The better
growth of clover has helped to choke out the
red grass, and where the heavy dressing was
applied the pest has disappeared.
“W.M.F.”: For boundary fences, or where
big stock has to be dealt with. No. 8 wire
is best, and nothing less than No. 10 should
be used except in very special circumstances.
For subdivisional purposes, especially where
only sheep have to be considered, No. 14
galvanised will be found very useful. It is
largely used in Westralia, and is worth a
trial in other places.
“Bad Australian”: When you have fin-
ished grubbing or burning out the timber on
that bit of virgin land, which will be well
on in summer, you will have to wait until
the autumn rains before putting the plough
into it. By planting three or four pumpkin
seeds in each stump-hole in December you
will in any ordinary season have a few tons
of that useful vegetable to harvest in
autumn just about the time the land is
ready for the plough. As maize and pump-
kins do well together, a few grains of the
former planted in each hole will afford a
good supply of green maize for the table,
and the cobs that come to maturity will be
appreciated by the pigs and fowls.
“R.X.8.”: The best way to get rid of
rats and mice in feed-sheds and grain-stores
is by the confidence trick. This is worked
by supplying a nice meal of porridge, made
especially agreeable to rodents by boiling a
piece of bacon with it, and placing a dish of
the mixture in a suitable place each night.
The feed may not be touched for a night or
two, as rats are very suspicious; but later
it will be eaten. The quantity should be
increased each night to meet what is bound
to be an increasing demand. After a week
or ten days add some powdered rat poison
which contains strychnine. Paste poisons
usually contain phosphorus, which should
be avoided. The victims will not get far
with the strychnine inside them, and the car-
cases should be burnt without delay.
“Salambo”: Comparisons were recently
made by Prof. Burns, of Wyoming Uni., of wool
samples taken from stud sheep of Australia
and the United States. The samples were
taken from the shoulder and thigh of two
highly-priced merino rams at the Sydney sales
last July and from four Rambouillets, all
champions and prize-winners, at the Inter-
national Show, Chicago. The average length
of Australian staple was found to be 3.650 in.
and of the U.S.A. 3.613 in. The latter were
much more crimped, having 14.52 corruga-
tions to the inch as against 8.85 for Aus-
tralian, but the Australian wool was finer.
The American ram’s wool showed a deficiency
of density, averaging only half as many
fibres per square inch of skin as the Aus-
tralian.


OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
ẃ
a stockade and defied the military, but were
routed in a surprise attack in the course
of which 21 men w r ere killed. The story is
told in Ross’s “Eureka,” Withers’s “History
of Ballarat,” Turner’s “Our Own Little
Rebellion,” and a recent book by Nathan
Spielvogel, a well-known Bulletin contribu-
tor. (2) No; but some of the aliens who
abetted Peter Lalor had that end in view.
(1) Can you give me a list of books on
anthropology dealing with the natives of
Papua and New Guinea, suitable for a young
man who intends to take up missionary work?
(2) Particulars of any course in anthro-
pology conducted in Sydney, with, particulars
of fees, etc.? —9450. _
(1) “Argonauts of the Western Pacific,”
by Malinowski; “Melanesians of British
New Guinea,” by Seligman ; "Kiwai Papuans
of British New Guinea,” by Landtmann;
“Rossell Island,” by Armstrong; “Orokaiva
Magic,” by Williams. (2) A special series
of lectures in anthropology is arranged by
Sydney Uni. for officers of the Papuan and
New Guinea Administrations and for mis-
sionaries. The lectures will be given from
June to August of this, year as follows:
Ethnology: 15 lectures (11th June to 12th
July—Mon., Wed., Fri at 10 a.m.) ; Lingui-
stics; 15 lectures (15th July to 16th August
—Mon., Wed., and Fri. at 10 a.m.) ; Social
Anthropology: 30 lectures (11th June to
10th Aug.—Tues., Wed. and Thurs. at 12
noon). Special lectures on “Introduction to
Social Anthropology” and “Papuans and
Melanesians” will be given at times to be
arranged. The fee for the whole course is
£3 3s. Students wishing to attend the course
should give notice, in writing, to the Secre-
tary, Dept, of Anthropology, on or before
30th May, 1929.
(1) What was the quantity and value of
peanuts imported during financial year ending
June, 1928, and for six months ending 31 st
Dec., 1928? (2) Quantity of peanut oil
imported for same period, and value of same?
(3) Duty on peanut oil? —9361.
(1) 1927-28, 1,839,8961 b. valued at
£22,885; six months ending 31st Dec., 1928,
1,220,5401 b. valued at £15,412. (2) 1927-28,
24,584 gallons valued at £5837; six months
ending 31st Dec., 1928, 17,088 gallons valued
at £4315. (3) If classified under Tariff
item 229 (H,l) : 2s. per gal. British pref.,
2s. 6d. per gal. intermediate, 3s. per gal.
general. If classified under tariff item 230:
In vessels not exceeding one gal., per dozen
vessels—(a) Qr.-pints and smaller sizes,
9d. British, Is. inter., Is. 3d. general; (b)
half-pints and over—qr.-pints Is. 6d., 2s. and
2s. 6d.; (c) pints and over half-pints, 35.,
4s. and 55.; (and) qts. and over a pint, 65.,
Bs. and 10s.; (e) over a quart, 25., 2s. Bd.
and 3s. 4d. per gallon.
(1) Does the Tasmanian Government
guarantee the divs. of the Rapson Tyre Cos?
(2) What is its position? —944o.
The co. at its last balance (June 30, ’2B)
had issued 197,945 8 p.c. cum. pref. £1 shares
called to 155., 297,003 ords. of £1 called to
155., and 55,000 £1 ords. fully paid—these
iast were issued “otherwise than for cash.”
The ss. per share has since been, called. Only
prefs., of which a public issue w r as made,
are commonly quoted—they are worth about
175.; the ords. are held by the promoter —
apparently the English Rapson Tyre and
.Tack Co.,' or the holder of its Australian
rights. Payment of the 8 p.c. on the prefs.
is guaranteed for seven years by the Govern-
ment of Tasmania on numerous conditions
laid down by the Act. As far as the Service
Department knows those conditions have
been complied with, and the Government has
notified the co. accordingly.
What is meant by “the freedom of the
city”?—T see the Y.A.L. boys have got it
somewhere in America, —9460 a.
No more than that the outsider who
receives it has all the rights and privileges
of a citizen. Asa rule, the only rights
and privileges the citizen has is to pay
rates on property and vote if he is enrolled.
On getting the freedom of the city the out-
sider may also pay rates, and vote when he
gets on the roll.
Is any information to be got about East-
ern, Traders Cos., in which many Adelaide
people are interested? —9442.
None very comforting. The co. has rights
to forests in Borneo, from which, on paper,
timber could be milled cheaply and landed in
Australia at a large profit. One shipment
was received ; the authorities condemned it,
and it was destroyed. Another little lot
was sent and sold profitably. The co. has a
milling plant in Borneo, but it has been
closed dowm, and an attempt is now being
made to put it in order. This Department’s
authority on the subject is not hopeful.
(1) Where in N.S.W. is the best district
for trapping rabbits, either for skins or car-
cases? (2) What is the best way of obtain-
ing country? (3) Is Walgett any good? —
9623.
(1) Bathurst or Oberon. (2) Make per-
sonal application to the owners concerned.
(3) No.
(1) Where should I apply, in Sydney, for
a position as jackeroo on a sheep station?
(2) What is the best time of the year to
apply? (3) What are the award rates of
wages for station-hands hi N.8.W.? —9531.
(1) Apply to one of the land companies
running station properties, such as Golds-
brough Mort; Australian Mercantile, Land
and Finance Cos.; Scottish Investment Cos.,
Ltd.; and New Zealand and Australian Land
Cos. (2) Any time. (3) For those under
the Federal aw r ard: 82s. per week without
keep, and 545. Bd. per week with keep. For
boys between 18 and 21 years, 265. 6d.
per week w r ith keep, or 535. per week without
keep. If under 18 years, 20s. per week with
keep, or 475. 3d. per week without keep.
For those under the State (N.S.W.) award:
88s. per week without keep, and 58s. 6d.
per week with keep. Between 18 and 21
years, 28s. 6d. per week with keep, or 575.
per week without keep. Under 18 years,
21s. 6d. per week with keep, or 51s. per
week without keep.
How many do three, threes and two sixes
count in, a hand of cribbage f —9666.
Eighteen.
What is employed for the cutting-surface
of the drilling-bits used in boring for oil at
Roma? —9618.
Barium and stellite have both been success-
fully used ; shortly another substance called
dimonettes will be introduced.
How can I destroy crows by poisont—
-9491.
Melt 61b. fat. Place half a stick of phos-
phorus in a pickle-bottle, and pour boiling
water on it. Let the fat cool to the con-
sistency of treacle and pour the liquidised
phosphorus into it. Stir well till it sets.
Spread the poisonous fat on green sheep-
skins or dead sheep or lambs in a place
where the crows are known to feast. If direc-
tions are not carefully observed in regard
to proportion of phosphorus and stirring, the
phosphorus may consolidate and ignite the
lot.
(1) What arc the qualifications necessary
for entrance to the Queensland Police Force?
(2) Wages and holidays? (3) Possibilities
of joining, and how to do so? (4) Would a
four years' discharge certificate from the
Territorial Army help me? —9495.
(1) Candidates must be sft. 9in. or over
in height, 36in. or over chest measurement,
with expansion to not less than 38in., of
strong constitution, and free from bodily com-
plaint. They must be unmarried and between
the ages of 20 and 30. A short exam, in
reading, writing, dictation and the first four
rules in elementary arithmetic must be
passed; also a strict medical exam. (2)
Annual recreation leave, 28 days. Rates of
pay for constables are as follows: Pro-
bationary period at Police Depot, 10s. per
diem; Ist year, 15s. Id.; 2nd to sth year,
15s. 7d.; 6tli to 10th year. 16s. Id.; 11th
to 15th year, 16s. 7d.; 16th to 20tli year,
17s. Id.; over 20 years, 17s. 7d. (3) There
are no vacancies in the force at nresent, and
there are not likely to be any for two years.
Application should be made to the Com-
missioner of Police, Brisbane. (4) Probably.
How can I get rust off a spring mattress?
—9661.
You may get some off by saturating the
wire with kerosene, applied with a large soft
brush. Rub it off with a woollen cloth and
dry in the sun. Another method is to cut
No. 0 emery paper into strips and pull up
and down through the wires.
How can I husk and clean rice grain on a
small scale? We use 70 lb. per month. —9612.
The method used by natives in the Islands
is to place the rice in a circular depression
in wood, and rub with a stick with a rounded
end in pestle and mortar fashion. The husks
are then winnowed from the grain by tossing
in the air on a windy day.
(1) Can you give me a recipe for prickly-
pear wine? (2) Also prickly-pear jam? —
9628.
(1) Clean and trim the fruit, cut up
neatly, cover with water and bring to the
boil. When soft cover with a cloth and set
aside until fermentation sets in, probably a
week or two. Strain off the liquor, and to
every gallon add 31b. sugar and the juice of
3 lemons. Stir well together and let fer-
ment again in a tub. After 10 days add loz.
isinglass to every 9 gallons dissolved in a
little of the wine and stirred well in. Bottle
in 6 months. (2) Peel the fruit and cut up
into small pieces. Allow lib. sugar to every
lib. of cut fruit, and two lemons to every
51b. fruit and l£oz. whole ginger if liked.
Cover the fruit all night with about half
the sugar, next day boil all ingredients
together, the ginger being put in a muslin
bag. Cook for 2 hours and bottle hot.
1 have a life policy unth the Australian
Catholic Assurance Cos. and have been
advised to drop it. What is the position? —
9532.
It isn’t an A.M.P., but it is a very long
way from the bottom. At the 1928 balance
its position was as follows: —
Paid capital £14,010
Insurance fund .. .. 104,481
£119,091
Less intangibles .. .. 6,891
Total tangible assets .. £113,200
Its surplus for that year, after paying all
claims and exes., was £39,259. We have no
actuarial report; but at any rate the co.
stands behind over £IOO,OOO of solid assets,
and they are being added to at a fairly rapid
rate.
Is there any way by which I can select
safe things to put my small means into? —
9742.
There are no hard and fast rules, any
more than there are hard and fast rules by
which one can surely live to be 90. Men
like those who run The Bulletin’s Wild
Cat pages and the Wild Cat Monthly spend
their lives trying to w'innow the grain from
the chaff; and then accidents happen which
upset their conclusions. But you can be
sure of this: there are so many keen people
looking for safe investments, and willing to
accept a return of between 5 and 6 p.c. for
safety, that uncertainty must be looked for
wherever the return or promised return goes
much beyond that figure.
In a brick house with a cavity wall and
tiled roof, where or at what height should
the collar ties be placed? —946s.
The span of the roof plays an important
part, and no set point can be laid down. A
collar tie is intended to act as stiffener to
the rafters. Should the length of rafters be
more than 12 feet, two purlins should be
used. The lower purlin may be strutted
from the internal walls or special plates,
while the upper purlin may be supported by
the collar ties. Should one purlin only be
used, it may also be supported by the collar
ties, the purlin being placed midway between
points of support to the rafters.
What is the method of catching gold on
the beach by means of quicksilver?— 96o6.
If the gold-bearing sand is white and
loose, pass it over amalgamated copper plates.
If sand is coherent and discolored by vege-
table matter it must be crushed and cleaned
with a solution of water sgals., washing-
soda 31b.. caustic-soda 4oz. The plates are
attached to a table about 14ft. long and 2ft.
3in. wide, set at an angle of about I3d£g.
The sand, with sufficient water to ensure dis-
charge of “tailings,” is fed into a perforated
zinc-lined box at top end of table. '' ben
sufficient thickness of amalgam has accumu-
lated, it is scraped off, mixed with a bttie
fresh quicksilver, washed with water and
finally squeezed through canvas or chamois
leather. The hard amalgam so obtained is
retorted.
(1) What is the price of a good barograph,
and where can I bug one? (2.) Arc theic
books procurable which describe wefeoro-
logical instruments, and their method of
construction? —9591 _ _ , .. ,
(1) Prices range from £9 to £3O;
or Selby’s, both Sydney houses. (2) Esdaile s
retail a series of booklets at 2s. each dealing
with specific types of meteorological instru-
ments.
Brief Answers.
A.J.S.; (1) See reply to 9640. (2) No
new concern can be regarded as a certainty. (3)
and (4) No. (5) Avery fair risk J.H.T.: (let
your nearest chemist to make up a lead and
calamine lotion. Apply it freely over affected parts.
Have a warm bath every day. But you won w have
permanent relief from hives until the cause, probably
dietetic, is discovered, and that’s a job for medico
on the spot. .. .J.8.G.: George Judah Cohen, Elizabeth
Bay, Sydney... V W.J.E.: Particulars as to obtaining
a commission in the R.A.A.F. were printed in
Service Page (B. 13/2/’29). Write to the Secretary
Air Board, Defence Department, Melbourne. .. .G.G.:
(1) Apply at offices of shipping cos., but the
chances are remote —hundreds of applications are
received weekly. (2) Inquiring re passport question.
G.H.: Write to W.A. Airways, Ltd., 86 A.M.P.
Buildings, Perth, W.A.; Queensland and N.T. Aerial
Services, Ltd., Box 140 Longreaeh, Queensland; or
Larkin Aircraft Supply Cos., Ltd., Melbourne Aero-
drome, Dudley-street, Melbourne... H.E.8.: Write to
Home Sanitation, Ltd., 19 Bligh-street; Septic Tanks,
Ltd., 1 Bligh-street; or Sanitary Installation Cos.,
D.T. Building, King-street—all of Sydney. Also, see
article on “Septic Tanks” in “Australian Encyclo-
pedia” E.M.: Try Lands Department, Sydney.
C.B.: (1) Write to T. E. H. Kuwahata, 183
George-street, Sydney. (2) Apply to Customs Depart-
ment, Hobart....H.G.H.: Write to the Secretary,
Companies’ Auditors Board, Melbourne... .Hard-up:
Submit full particulars to the Invalid and Old-age
Pensions Office, Sydney E.M.; If you are requiring
only a few packets your wants may be supplied
by Murdoch Bros., Market-placd’, Hobart.. .5.M.8.:
Joseph Cook was Prime Minister of Australia at
the outbreak of the war... .A.M.: No information
available 8.C.: (1) Write to the Australian
Cement Manufacturers’ Association, 14 Spring-street,
Sydney, for its booklet on concrete pavements.
(2) Write to Missing Friends Branch, Police Depart-
ment, in capital city of State in which he last
resided R.F.M.S.: (1) Must be resident in the
State, but not for any specified period. It is
assumed that both parties are British subjects. (2)
Can proceed at once to be married in a Presby-
terian church. (3) The legal formalities are the
same in church or Registrar’s office.... E.P.J.C. :
The first step will be to obtain probate of the will.
Communicate with the Registrar of Probates, Law
Department, Melbourne, and ask to be supplied with
forms and information. The duty and costs depend
on the value of the estate..W.W.: If the station
carries more than 1000 cattle or 10,000 sheep,
preference to members of the A.W.U. applies....
H.M.: Write to Prof. Mawson, Adelaide Uni
W.L.: Regret no information available. It is a
Vic. proprietary co., therefore for all practical pur-
poses a private .concern... .F.G.T.: Provided you can
produce regular parcels, you should have no difficulty
in finding a buyer. We cannot forecast the market.
The ore or concentrates should assay not less than 50
per cent, antimony, Process of concentration will
depend on the nature of the ore. Write Frank
Hambridge, 22 Bridge-street, Sydney E.F.0.: Dr.
George Brookes, 143 Maequarie-stfeet, Sydney....
M.R.: Write Public Library, Melbourne. .. .N.D.:
Ask Agricultural Department, Sydney for pamphlet
“The Passion-fruit” F.S.: Private instruction
would be helpful; failing that, a course with a
reliable correspondence 5ch001.... R.J.; Apply to any
of the shipping cos.; Deputy Superintendent, Shipping
Office, Sydney; or Capt. J. F. Bayldon, 54a Pitt-
street, Sydney.... J.C.: Youths between 17 and 21
are eligible. Write District Naval Officer, Naval
Staff Office, Sydney, and ask for pamphlet “How
to join the R.A.N.” V.D.: Write secretary Incor-
porated Law Institute, 3 Castlereagh-street, Sydney,
and place all the facts before him....A.0.: Send
sample, with full particulars, to Department of
Agriculture, Melbourne, who will advise whether
drainage would be beneficial... .A. 8.: (1) See reply
to 9610 (B. 17/4/’29). (2) Wdbster’s defines
“moron” as: “A person belonging to that group of
the feeble-minded whose mental level is that of
the normal child of from eight to twelve years
of age inclusive”... .A.M.: (1) Ask Chapman and
Sherack, engineers, Clara-street, Erskineville, for
opinion. (2) No C.C.: You would find it diffi-
cult to obtain a position as a pharmaceutical chemist
unless you had been trained in pharmacy. Adver-
tising would be your best plan. .. . V.J.0.: (1)
If you can show that the absence of the debtor
from Australia will materially prejudice you, you
may take out a writ of ne exeat regno; but
apparently you do not propose to proceed against
him and have therefore nothing on which to ground
such a writ —one rarely resorted to. (2) and (3)
It is highly improbable that the passport authority
would intervene; but you could consult it....
J.M.D.: “Australian Sheep and Wool,” by Alfred
Hawkesworth (265.) ; “The Sheep and Wool Indus-
try of Australasia,” by Henry B. Smith (95.) ;
“Classing the Clip,” by C. E. Cowley (155.). Angus
and Robertson, Sydney... .H. 8.: Ask Ford Motor
Cos., Eagle Farm, Brisbane, for an instruction manual.
. ...F.W.F.: (1) The area of Randwick (N.S.W.)
municipality is 8528 acres. (2) The area of Wallend-
been municipality is 63,590 acres; its population at
December 31, 1928, was 780. Wallendbeen muni-
cipality was constituted in 1892. Certain territory
was added in 1893, but there has been no reduction
in area... .H.L.P.: “Egg Fruit” belongs to the same
family as the tomato, but is slightly lower in
actual food value. It contains but little starch
or sugar and is low in protein and albuminoids....
J. 8.: N.S.W. Department of Agriculture, Sydney,
will forward you leaflets gratis... .M.H.: Write
Secretary, Public Service Board, Sydney... .R.N.:
See Service Page, B. 17/4/’29. And get in touch
with Frank Hambridge, 22 Bridge-street, Sydney.
.... Mulgaite: A fair risk considering the return;
but you can’t get interest like that without taking
pretty big chances... .C.A.W.: In your circumstances,
better leave it alone... .A.M.: If you want “your
little all” to be as safe as you can make it, don’t.
If you can afford to take chances of losing it for
the sake of a possible big return, then the bonds
you mention are probably as good as any....
Mildura: The sugar-gums have eucalyptus scale
( Eriococcus ) and should be sprayed with “Volck,”
a preparation obtained from any seedshop in Mel-
bourne.... (Many others mailed.)


“Striking a New Note in Comfort and Refinement
The Victoria Palace
Accommodation for 800 Guests,
MELBOURNE
In the heart of the City, adjacent to theatres and business centres.
The Tariff is moderate and the standard of Service throughout
exceptionally high. The new East Wing is equipped with every
facility for ensuring the personal comfort of guests.
EARLY RESERVATION IS RECOMMENDED.
ROOM TARIFF ONLY
West Wing Tariff—
Single rooms (hot and cold water) .... 6/6
Double rooms (hot and cold water .... 127-
Centre Block Tariff—
Single rooms, from 5/-
Double rooms, from 87-
East Wing Tariff—
Single rooms, 7/6; with Private Bath, 107-
Double rooms, 14/-; „ „ „ 18/6
Meals are paid for separately—this system ensures perfect freedom
of movement.
THE VICTORIA
(Next Town Hall),
MELBOURNE.
For the Tourist—for the Business Man—for the Resident.
For Any Travel
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
w
The accredited Agents of all Steam
Ship Lines. Their expert guidance and
special facilities cost you nothing.
TO EUROPE 1930
Apply now for accommodation, as
berthing plans for all steamers are open.
WINTER TOURS
To Queensland, Bali, Java, Siam,
Japan, Hawaii, Malaya, Sumatra, Indo-
China (Saigon, Pnom-Penh, Angkor).
STEAMER EXCURSIONS
Cairns, South Sea Islands, Fiji, Tahiti,
Honolulu, Ceylon, Java, Japan and
Manila, etc.
COOKS’ TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES
Are the safest and most convenient
means of carrying funds.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street,
ADELAIDE:
49 Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
AUCKLAND;
N.Z. insurance Building*
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).
J-
-1
S-
r
r fvT t&ytS-
BELLS OF MISSION SAN GABRIEL
founded 1771 on the slopes of poppy-clad foothills near Pasadena, California.
CALIFORNIA
EVERY MILE WORTH WHILE
From Australia you travel on Matson-Oceanic liners via Suva (Fiji),
Pago Pago (Samoa) and Honolulu (Hawaii) to San Francisco,
cosmopolitan city by the Golden Gate.
San Francisco is the central portal to the scenic wonders of the United
States and Canada, and affords easy access to their great cities and
business centres.
San Francisco is unique among the great cities of America. Here are
combined the art and poise of Paris, the enthusiasm of New York, and
the leisure of London.
Comparable to the "cathedral towns” of Europe are the California
Mission towns, with old Spanish missions, monuments of heroic Padres
who first brought civilisation to the land. Truly, this is a bright region
of romance.
Sydney to San Francisco and return, £125/10/- first class, £B7 second
class, bv the Matson-Oceanic route. Only 19 days between these ports,
with three pleasant pauses en route, in the verdant Pacific Islands.
Call or write for descriptive pamphlets, fare lists, sailing dates and other information.
S.S. SIERRA S.S. SONOMA S.S. VENTURA
SAILING EVERY THIRD SATURDAY.
TUB iesiiii STEAMSHIP 6® a
Matson Use
12 Bridge Street, Sydney
Local Agents: Mcllwraith McEacharn Ltd., 94-96 William St., Melbourne; 117-119 King
William St., Adelaide; Fremantle, Perth, Albany; Howard Smith Ltd., Brisbane, Townsville
D-29
(Shsti .
tiQ: defies i/DutHA. /
The modern “Ideal” Classic Heating System is extremely efficient,
economical and proved. It provides heat whole home or building
from one fire, and requires no skilled attendant. The radiators occupy
little room, are artistic in design and susceptible of any color decoration.
m
3£T.
wgwjfHj
ill
Radiators occupy little space,
and are of artistic appearance.
Ideal
WARMING
Hot water for bathrooms and
household use is also part of
the “Ideal" Classic scheme.
Thousands of installations all
over Australia are giving
satisfaction, and saving time,
money and trouble.
Cheaper than open fires, gas
or electricity.
The only system for Hotels,
Clubs, Boar d i n g-houses,
Country Homes, Homes, etc.
Write for booklet. Send a
rough plan if requiring a
price.
324-330
I
PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
JOHN DANKS &SON PTY. LTD.
391-403
BOURKE ST.,
MELBOURNE.


Australian Metropolitan Life
Assurance Company, Ltd.
Incorporated 1895.
HEAD OFFICE:
THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING,
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
INCOME FOR YEAR 1928 . . £255,141 14 10
ASSETS AT 31/12/’2B . . £892,991 18 8
NEW BUSINESS 1928 . . £1,021,545 0 0
Reversionary Bonuses range from £l/10/- to £3 per cent, on the sum assured.
FREEMAN J. EATON, General Secretary.
J. A. HENDERSON, General Manager.
N/
Mai;
x:
/
!/
U...
Ns,—'
W~ t
„.w —'
“Its Quality Never Changes.
1/9 per 2oz. Tin.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO.. SYDNEY.
SMOKE-OH!
Some strikers favor gorilla tactics.
* *
Kubelik says that he considers jazz to be
genuine music. Most people regard it rather
as cymbalic.
* *
The Musicians’ Union is claiming higher
rates for performances in restaurants. An
adverse judgment may mean an extension of
the timbre strike.
H- *
There is so much work attached to the
Prime Minister’s office that Mr. Bruce wants
another Minister to assist him. On the prin-
ciple, possibly, that one good dud deserves
another.
* *
Love is like a radio set —
It seems to me emphatic
:That music sweet at first you get,
And then it turns to static.
* *
the careless lover.
“Sydney Council of Social and Moral Reform
advocates a by-law forbidding a man to sit within
3ft.. of a girl on a beach.” —News item.
Connie and Cutbbert, who had just become
engaged, stepped on to the moon-bathed
sands. Suddenly Cuthbert stopped and smote
his brow remorsefully. “Darling, we must
go back!” “But why?” asked the girl. “I
thought we were going to sit and talk”
“So we were, so we were,” he replied dis-
tractedly. “But I might as well own up—
I’ve forgotten to bring my footrule!”
QUITE LIKELY.
NORA : “I wonder why we’ve grown tired of each other?”
NORMAN : “I haven’t an idea.”
NORA: “Yes, maybe that’s it.”
The man who souvenired Ned Kelly’s
skull is handing it to the Canberra School of
Physiology. The Taxation Department
authorities are bitterly hurt over the slight.
* *
Premier Bavin, in accepting a gift of two
travelling trunks from the N.S.W. National-
ist Assoc., said that “one small silkworm
was now capable of producing a modern girl’s
dress.” However, one big goat still has to
foot the bill.
* ¥
The Yic. Government has proclaimed an-
other sanctuary for native game. All that is
needed now is one for volunteer laborers.
Many a man’s wife is his cheque-mate.
NATIONALIST ATHLETES.
North Sydney Scoops the Pool.
“Sydney Nationalist Convention celebrated the
occasion by holding a picnic and sports programme.”
Results as supplied by our Private Investi-
gator : •
Long-distance Jump: W. M. Hughes 1,
Bendigo to North Sydney. A world record.
Hurling the Invective: W. M. Hughes 1,
Earle Page 2. The harborside crack won all
three throws.
Ugly Man Competition: W. M. Hughes 1,
George Pearce 2. No other entrants.
Greasy Poll: This event was postponed
until next election-day. Hughes looks a cer-
tain winner on form.
Obstacle Race: Declared “no race” by
the judges. All the competitors crashed at the
Tariff wall. Up to this time Hughes was
leading by the length of a street, having sur-
mounted in finished style no fewer than 15
unbreakable pledges and several cast-iron
principles.
As Hughes continued to win, the sports
were abandoned in disorder, the other com-
petitors alleging that they had no fewer than
25,000 reasons, all as good as gold, for ques-
tioning his amateur status.
D.
HINT TO HOARDING-HOUSE COOK.
She who employs her frying-pan
To ruin food, ere ’Us too late
Should stop. If Justice has a plan,
To fry in llcll will be her fate.
* *
THE GREAT DAHLER EXPEDITION.
Dauntless American Explorers Brave
tiie Perils of N. Australia.
Booliwooligal (north of Townsville). —
Admiral Horatio P. Dahler (a cousin of
the intrepid U.S. explorer who recently an-
nexed'most of British Antarctica) landed here
to-day. He is staying at Mick Flynn’s pub,
and, with his staff, will attend the annual
race-meeting to-morrow. He has named our
coastal belt New Harlem, and the cattle
country across the ranges Hollywood. The
bay will be known in future as Hoover Har-
bor, while the rising ground at the western
entrance, where the Washington Government
proposes to erect a Statue of Liberty, has
been christened Prohibition Point.
The explorers are getting on well with
the inhabitants, whom they are treating with
great tact. Popular
enthusiasm was
aroused by the grace-
ful action of the leader
in attaching a procla-
mation under his hand
and seal to the post-
office wall as follows:
“In. memory of the
brave soldiers who
helped America to win
the World War,
Admiral Horatio P.
Dahler has given the
name of Australia to
all that country south
of the borders of New
Harlem and Holly-
wood.”
Later.
Mutta-Mutta (Cape
York). Consider-
able agitation exists
here, our bi-weekly
newspaper having re-
ported the approach of
the Dahler Expedi-
tion. Signs are being
hurriedly put up along
the coast by progress
associations and simi-
lar bodies such as:—
“American and
other explorers are
notified that a good
camping spot will be
found half a mile to
the north. Permanent
water and all modern
conveniences. Kindly
damp ashes before leaving, and so prevent the
destruction of valuable forest timbers by
bush-fires.”
Later Still.
Gumbo (Gulf of Carpentaria), from our
Special Representative. —
All work has ceased here, and the inhabi-
tants are busily naming every nameable
spot in view of the reported approach of the
Dahler Expedition. But the apathy in indi-
vidual cases is marked, and augurs ill for
our hold on this fair land. A fisherman, who
showed me round merely said, in reference
to an inlet, that ho was going down to the
blanky bay, and when I asked him about an
island in the offing he said it was a blankard.
As the Mayor observed in an address at the
Town Hall: ‘We will need to devise better
names than these if we mean to keep the
new generation of the Yankee explorers off
our national preserves.’ ”
H.
* *
CHEERING THE READERS.
From Sydney Sun :
A REAL HOLIDAY PAPER.
Quite recently, in Sheffield (F.ng.), a woman saw
a mouse and screamed. Two men on a motor-lorry
jumped off their vehicle, which suddenly ran back,
killing one man and seriously injuring the other.
THE INNER MAN.
BERTIE: “When I am with you alone here
on the links, you know I feel quite like
a poet.”
GERTIE: “Yes, I feel a bit hungry, too.”
ŵ
ẁ
TWO TO THE YARD.
JONES: “My word, Chocolate, you big
fellow! How many yards did it take to
make your shirt?”
CHOCOLATE: “Baal gammon, mine got-em
two-fellow shirt out of one-fellow yard
last night.”
ẃ
THE INJUDICIOUS MOMENT.
He told her tales of an olden day,
When valor stalked, all unafraid,
Along a dragon-haunted way
To rive the bonds from a trembling maid.
With something of a poet’s flair
For words of haunting elegance,
lie painted for her then and there
A hundred heroes of romance,
'Till, warm and far-away, her glance
Dreamed on the lists of chivalry
Where demigods, with sword and lance,
Fought for a Queen of Love.... 'Then he,
Short-sighted worm, knock-kneed to boot,
Asked her to wed.—the silly coot!
MACESS.
IN CAMERA.
The photographer gnashed his teeth.
“I’ve taken 26 people to-day,” he said bit-
terly. “Over half of ’em have said, ‘I
expect I’ll break the plate.’ And the others
have said, ‘l’d sooner have a tooth drawn
than have me photo taken.’ If anybody
else”
Hi 3 face shed its expression of malevo-
lence, and split in a wide professional smile
as a new customer appeared. He pro-
ceeded to pose the sitter, who at once re-
marked brightly: “I expect I’ll break the
plate.”
The blood rushed to the photographer’s
brow. Instinctively he looked round for a
lethal weapon. Then he recovered himself.
“We have no plates to break here,” he
said acidly. “This is not a fishshop.”
The sitter was abashed.
“I didn’t mean that kind of plate. I
meant the plate in the camera.”
“The plate in the camera?”
“Yes. Don’t you see?”
“I’m afraid I don't. There is no plate
in the camera at the moment, and why, in
any event, should you break one?”
“I mean—er —my face. ... It's a joke,
you know. If I have my photo took my face
is so ugly it may break the camera. Ha!
Ha!”
“The cameras used in this studio are un-
breakable.”
“I didn’t mean Oh, orright. Carry
on an' take me photo. I can't explain any
more.”
In a short time all was over, and the
sitter prepared to leave.
“Do you know,” he said, “it wasn’t half-
bad, having me photo took.”
“No?”
“No, recly. As a matter of fact, though,
I’d sooner have a tooth out than have me
photo took.”
Repressing his desire to howl like a dog,
the photographer said : “Tooth out! There’s
an excellent dentist on the next floor.”
“I only meant —oh, orright! Orright!”
And the humorist stumbled miserably away.
LENS.


w
y/j
V
a
non
v-
WvvV
Jg
r«
iHHk
is:
m
m
m
*w
«Sj»rri6
AgS
i#r
#z<
THE OLDEST HORSE
IN THE WORLD!
Established 1742 and still in its prime.
Matured from early days in wood and
blended with subtlety and genius.
Real old Scotch whisky with a rare
distinctive flavour. In growing demand
throughout the world.
A man s drink—anytime, anywhere.
White house
1 Wh Whisky
x sb^
KS


Bright with Color
Gtnerous in their
Shaae
Light — Cool—
and Comfortable
ẅ
gj?e "SENORITA”
BEACH HAT
Holiday Hats, bright with their coloured
bindina and pom-poms, the true Spanish
type of head-gear, of varnished pressed
straw - waterproof— will not
crack may be rolled. All
Sizes, -e* -"■* Price—
8/6
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street. Bri bine
w
You are on Firm Ground with the P. & C.
THE P. 6c C. works hand in hand with the man on the
land. From long and intimate experience it under-
stands his problems, and, because of its co-operative
basis, meets them. During dreaded times of stress policies
are kept in force, money is loaned, and the interests of its
members thus protected. Enjoy these extra benefits. Let
the P. 6c C, protect you without delay. Discuss the matter
with a representative or write direct for information.
Chairman of Directors : Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Man. Director: H. Fell
PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA
114--120 CASTLE RE AQH ST. SYDNEY n£=
Monday to Friday—-
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
From 7.30. Minimum Charge, 10/-
Saturday, Late Gala Night.
Special Table d’HOte Dinner, 21/-, from 7.i>».
From 10 o’clock, Special Supper 12/6* or
0 la carte, minimum, 12/6 ' ’
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 to 5, 4/-. Parties of six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 6.30, 5/-
The Ambassadors New Delightful
Dance Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and Rhythm that makes dancing an
effortless pleasure.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M4ISI.
A ROGUE IN AMBER
By- J.B. COOPER
ẃ
Synopsis : Implicated in Paris in
the murder of the Baroness Bellarosa,
Saccaco, a Neapolitan, escapes,
leaving his co-criminal, Francois
Neigre, in gaol. Twenty years later
he is in Australia with his wife Jean-
nette and their daughter Marie,
who exchanges impassioned letters with
Gerald Deacon. Gerald’s father, be-
fore his death, wished his son to marry
Betty Calcroft, a Mildura girl, who,
however, is loved by Jack Carew, a
farmer, and Edward Felspar, an artist,
In Melbourne Marie sits as model to
Felspar, who had married in Paris,
but whose girl-wife had left him.
Felspar has received a certificate of
her death, but this Saccaco, now call-
ilng himself Carducci, steals. Shifting
to Sydney, Carducci is recognised by
Neigre, ivho had been a convict at
Noumea. Felspar proposes to Betty,
who is in Melbourne with her rela-
tions tlyi Clintons. She lightly rejects
him, and he misses his certificate and
reports its loss to Clinton, who cables
the Parisian police and is informed
that the certificate was a mistake;
the girl had not died. The police
undertake to try to trace her, and
Clinton says nothing of the cable.
Actually she is living with Neigre,
who is making Carducci support him.
Gerald, who had been in England,
inherits a small fortune and owns a
racehorse. Going to Sydney, he in-
duces Marie to elope with him. Car-
ducci discovers this after they leave,
and, Marie having taken his papers,
including the certificate, he gets
a warrant for her arrest on a theft
charge.
Chapter XIII.
WHEN the Sydney express steamed
alongside the platform at Spencer-
street, a police sergeant and a con-
stable were waiting to arrest Marie on the
charge of “stealing one portmanteau,
papers, jewellery and other articles from
Antonio Carducci.” Marie and Gerald
showed some surprise at the swiftness of
the blow struck by the Italian, but they
were not alarmed; their feeling was one
of annoyance.
To Gerald it was “just what a Dago
would do,” though he did not say so to
Marie. On her part she did not reveal her
thoughts to Gerald that the arrest was an
attempt to l’ecover the death certificate of
Lisette Delas Felspar and the cameo brooch.
Marie was fearful, more fearful than usual
since the law was in touch with her, that
she would in some way be the means of
giving the police a clue that would lead
to the arrest of the two recidivistes in
Sydney.
On the way to the city watchhouse the
police allowed Gerald to call upon Mr.
Pounce, a lawyer friend of his. Fortu-
nately Mr. Pounce was in his office, and
free to accompany them to the watch-
house for the purpose of applying for bail.
Promptly Marie was brought before a
chamber magistrate, and the circumstances
of the arrest explained to him. He was a
jovial-faced Irishman, who showed a little
restrained gallantry towards the handsome
prisoner when he saw through the subter-
fuge by which her father had contrived that
she should visit the court just a little too
early for afternoon tea.
Mr. Pounce pleaded for Marie, and set
the facts shortly, as he was instructed, be-
fore the magistrate.
“Of course, your Worship, the police are,
iii the circumstances, entitled to a remand,
Miss Carducci having only been arrested
this afternoon at Spencer-street on the arri-
val of the Sydney express. The police are
now waiting for the warrant, which, I
understand, will arrive to-morrow. The
police also inform me that the unnatural
father, the man who caused the warrant to
issue, the man who would, if he could,
place his daughter in gaol, is on his way
to Melbourne. It is a trumpery charge of
larceny, a mere shell of a charge, since
the portmanteau contains the young lady’s
wearing apparel, and she must have her
clothes, whatever order you may be pleased
to make with regard to the portmanteau.
If any offence was committed, which I deny,
it could have been met by the issue of an
ordinary summons for illegal use, or for
illegal detention of the portmanteau. One
would think there was something behind
all the fuss this despicable father is mak-
ing. My clients here are quite above-
board. I do not know what the Sydney
magistrate was thinking of. I’m proud to
say no police magistrate in Melbourne
could be found to issue a warrant in such
circumstances.”
“This is not an occasion,” said the magis-
trate incisively, “for throwing bouquets at
Sydney magistrates, nor for handing bricks
to our own. I do not think we need go into
the question of the portmanteau at this
stage. I understand this is an application
for bail?”
“As you please, sir,” replied Mr. Pounce
with formal suavity. “This is in the nature
of an application m chambers, and 1 take
it, sir, that you will allow me to state a
few facts in justice to my client.”
“Waiting to arrest Marie.”
“I don’t see the necessity, on an appli-
cation for bail,” the magistrate interposed.
“The value of the portmanteau is sworn,
I see, at fifty-five shillings, the papers at
£5O and the brooch at £20.”
“That is so. We took the portmanteau,
but we deny felonious intent. The papers
and brooch happened to be in it. This
gentleman,” indicating Gerald, “is very
anxious to secure bail for the lady.”
“It is very gallant of him,” said the magis-
trate drily, looking at Gerald. “Your client,
Mr. Pounce, would not, I think, experience
any difficulty in finding bondsmen.”
At this stage the proceedings were in-
terrupted by the entrance of a little, short,
red-faced man with a few thin locks of
hair on his big head. There was evidence
of a pathetic
endeavor t o
spread the wisps
over a scalp
that shone red
upon the dome-
shaped skull. He wore a sharply-cut mous-
tache that was dyed with not altogether
happy results; his collar was crinkled and
dirty; he wore a faded suit and spats that
overlaid unshapely boots. Mr. Pinch was
the last survivor of the firm of Pinch,
Capias and Son, solicitors, which firm
dated from the ’sixties. He was seventy-
five years of age, and had the honor to be
Mr. Antonio Carducci’s legal adviser, and
at times was the partner of the Italian in
“little enterprises of a delicate nature.”
In his long legal career Mr. Pinch had
once been suspended by the Supreme Court
for actions that were adjudged—quite
wrongly, of course —to be unprofessional;
but Mr. Pinch had, after doing penance,
succeeded in having his name restored to
the rolls.
Grasping his shabby black belltopper and
a brief-bag that had seen better days, he
bustled into the magistrate’s room.
“By your leave, your Worship,” ho began
hurriedly, “I have just been instructed—ar—
by telegraph to represent Mr. Carducci, my
client—ar—on any application for bail in this
case. I am somewhat—ar—at a disadvantage
through being late, but it was through no
disrespect to the Court. As I said, I have
only just received my instructions, and
they are explicit and—ar—mandatory. In
short —ar —I am instructed to oppose any
application for bail.”
Mr. Pinch sat down on one of the magis-
trate’s leather chairs and glared at Mr.
Pounce, who was dapper, smiling and con-
descending.
“It’s all very well for you,” said the
magistrate, “to come here and fling your
objection in the Court’s face, but I want
to know your reasons for opposing bail.
Have you ahy?”
“Certainly—ar—most cogent reasons,” re-
plied Mr. Pinch, looking at Gerald. “My
client—ar—Mr. Carducci, is an Italian
gentleman.”
“Is what?” asked Mr. Pounce. “I thought
he was a steak-de-oystar man.”
“I claim the protection of the Court,”
said Mr. Pinch with assumed dignity. He
looked around, as he had a habit of doing
in the old days, for the approval of spec-
tutors who were not there. An old dog
does not easily forego old tricks.
“Oh, don’t interrupt him, Mr. Pounce.
We’ll be here all day if you do, observed
the magistrate, looking at his watch.
“My client’s purpose will — ar— be deteatea
if this young woman gets bail before he
arrives to-morrow. His object in ha\ing
her arrested is to save her from becoming
the victim”
“I object,” exclaimed Mr. Pounce.
“Sit down, Mr. Pounce, and let him go
on!” .
“I say, advisedly, the victim of this young
man.” Mr. Pinch pointed an accusing fore-
finger at Gerald.
“Did he marry her before he eloped with
her? No! There was nothing—ar—to pre-
vent him except his wickedness. Has he any
honorable intentions towards her? I say
no! How shall we describe ft miscreant
who takes an innocent young woman like
this, not versed—ar—in the wickedness oi
the world, away from her devoted parents?
To allow the young woman out on bail, to
allow her to leave the custody of the police
except in charge of her heart-broken father
or the good nuns, is to throw her to the
wolves; to be precise—ar—to this wolf here.
I am informed that they came from Sydney
in a compartment—a journey that takes a
night’s travelling in the train. I need—ar—
say, sir—ar—well, it is unusual as —ar —man
of the world—ar—draw own conclusions.”
“Quite so! Quite so!” replied the magis-
trate testily. “We are not considering an
indiscretion, but an application for bail.”
“As you say, sir. Those are my grounds
for opposing bail, and I am satisfied the
Court will deem them good and sufficient.”
The magistrate turned to Mr. Pounce.
“You have heard Mr. Pinch’s objections.
What have you to say in reply?”
“Will your Worship pardon me for a
moment?”
Mr. Pounce had a few words with Gerald
in an undertone. Then he addressed the
Court.
“In this case, sir,” he said, “I ask for bail
to enable the gentleman to marry the lady.
The lady is of age, sir.”
(Continued on page JfJf.)


ŵ


Hanking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. •• £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3.369.965
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1928.. £18,623,453
Directors:
Sir MARK SHELDON, K.8.E., Chairman.
FRANK N. YARWOOD; H. H. LYSAGHT, 0.8. E.;
GEORGE J. SLY, LL.D. ; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE: JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER ; C. M. C. SHANNON.
CHIEF INSPECTOR: W. G. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH : 62 Bisliopsgate, E.C.2.
The BANK is represented by 186 Branches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, with Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. •• ••
Preference Shares .. .. •• *’875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 616,210
Ordinary Shares .. • • • • 5*Z0?*929
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,732,520
GRANTS DRAFTS Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
REC EIV E S DEPOSITS
i i 5 l
and transacts ail other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament 1865,
and Registered under the Companies Act 1892,
of South Australia.)
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 970,000
£2,220,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,470,000
Also 115 Branches and Agencies in South Australia,
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street. Melbourne.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — .think of
w
! SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office): 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N Z TROTTING CONFERENCE
n'.z'. HUNTS association
N Z GUN CLUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISLAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAL ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNEL CLUB
N.Z. GOLF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. POLO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of the World’s Leading
Advertising Agencies.
Shipping, etc.
it
ENJOY WINTER IN PACIFIC ISLES
APIDLY growing in popularity, the Winter Excur-
-1 v sions from Sydney to Raratonga and Papeete
(Tahiti) may yet rival the old-established holiday trips
to Honolulu. The swift trans-Pacific steamers of the
Union Royal Mail Line afford a superb ocean holiday,
as well as a glimpse of New Zealand’s Capital.
Forward booking is advisable to ensure picked accom-
modation on these island excursions.
Raratonga and Tahiti
via Wellington
£55 First and £lO Second (return)
Tahiti leaves Sydney May IB
Maunganui „ ~ June 13
Tahiti „ „ July 11
Honolulu via Auckland
and Suva
£75 First and £55 Second (return)
Niagara leaves Sydney May 30
Makura „ „ June 27
Aorangi „ „ July 25
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY, 247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne, Cl.
m
mk
■
i§
m
rrr.
<*ea£
Attractive Trips of from 2 to 7 WeeTcs.
Magnificent Scenery, Luxuriant Tropical Vegetation
and Quaint Surroundings.
Make a selection and book early for a most interesting
Holiday.
SOUTH SEA ISLAND CRUISES
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Lord
Howe Island, Norfolk Island and New Hebrides
JAVA AND SINGAPORE
(“The Garden of the East”)
Monthly Sailings from Melbourne and Sydney
by the “MARELLA” (7500 tons) and
“MALABAR” (5000 tons).
BURNS, PHILP £ COMPANY LIP.
SYDNEY AND BRANCH OFFICES
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH
ESTABLISHED 1817
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
WALES
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund. .
Reserve Liability
ẁ
£7,500,000
5,900,000
7,500,000
£20,900,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30. 1928, £BB 982,585.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DA\ IDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
554 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the .
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Dills Negotiate
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP '2 2
RESERVE FUND 1*215*2?2 ,2 2
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,553,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN Whmrmm);
Hon. Sir THOMAS HUGHES, M.L.C. ; Hon JAMES ASHTON. M.L.C ,
OWEN ESMOND FRIEND; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.
General Manager: J • R- DRY Hi RtsT.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birchin Lane. Lombard Street, E.C.3.
asr sssr asspwarisa & “.fsvz m
the world. . _ . .
\ll Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS. —Inspection invited. Particulars ot
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstance* permitting.)
FOR MfiXBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping for outports).
Sydney Agents.
Ltd., Clarence
fi Barrack Sts.
(oward Smith Ltd.
58 Margaret St.
Mellwraith,
McEaeharn, Ltd.,
19 Bridge Street.
I.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street,
loward Smith Ltd.
58 Margaret St.
[uddart, Parker,
Ltd.,
10 Bridge Street.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Mellwraith,
McEaeharn, Ltd.,
19 Bridge Street.
FOR BRISBANE. MACKAY, TOWNSVILLE, CAIRNS
(Transhipping for outports).
TO EUROPE—
Via UNITED STATES & CANADA
See Honolulu, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Chicago,
Niagara Falls, New York, Vancouver, Montreal, Que-
bec, and travel across the Atlantic on one of the
luxurious
CUNARD LINERS,
including the
R.M.S. AQUITANIA,
46,000 Tons.
R.M.S. BERENGARIA,
64,000 Tons.
R.M.S. MAURETANIA,
30,000 Tons.
Return Tickets issued by the Suez Canal and Cape
Lines are available for this route.
Apply for particulars of reduced through rates to
CUNARD LINE
(C. and D. Line),
1 BENT STREET, SYDNEY.
AWAY TO
HAWAII
HAWAII
HAWAII
“With the morning sun o’er mountains old.
Earth turns from its green to purple and gold.
So the poet describes Hawaii —the playground
of the Pacific. Come then, spend a few happy
weeks, daydreaming, surfing, golfing, playing,
forgetting time, here in Sunny Hawaii. Inter-
Island Cruises. Visit Kilauea Volcano.
Steamer Fares, Bound Trip: First Class, £75
up- Second Class, £55 up. First-class Hotel
Accommodation from 12/- to £3 per day, with
meals. It costs no extra money for through
passengers to break this journey at
HAWAII—HAWAII—HAWAII
Inquire at any Travel or Steamship Company
for fullest particulars, or write
HAWAII TOURIST BUREAU,
Dept. 26, Box 162788, G.P.0.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
BRISBANE,viaBYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
SS. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S S WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday eveniag;
nassenVrs due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES. —
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart ParkerLls!'
MagniNoent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITH3
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.


ẃ
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
HAS ACCEPTED
®l]E Jvegistcr
NEWS PICTORIAL
with the utmost enthusiasm.
ALL THE NEWS I
ALL THE PICTURES!
The State’s First Morning
Pictorial.
Largely increased Sales
already assured.
Arrange Contracts at
present rates.
HEAD OFFICE: REGISTER NEWS-
PAPERS, LIMITED, Grenfell Street,
Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative: Eric Pi. Birlt3,
Sydney. Tel. X 5187.
Melbourne Representative: G. N.
Bednall, “Argus” Building, Mel-
bourne. Tel. F 4502.
For outdoors, use
Potter's SMOKING
MIXTURE and
C IGA R E TTES
Of
■4
ASTHMA
Catarrh'Bronchitis,
Whooping Cough,
Colds in the Head
Yield at once
to the soothing
fumes of
ASTHMA
PQWDEP
2/6 per Tin from all Medicine
Vendors
POTTER & CLARKE. LTD..
Artillery Lane. London. Eng.
■m
/>
the." VENUS'
plans the World
lhe first rough suggestion—the skilful
and accurate working out, the sharp
detailed drawings, all the preliminary
planning necessary to the carrying out of
constructive effort, call for the use of VENUS
PENCILS Whether it be for the building of a
battle-ship or the design of a simple household
article, the pencil is the first requirement: the
VENUS the first pencil.
17 Blacklead Degrees CJB-9H sd. each - 4/9 per dozen. Super Copying (Medium 6c Hard) 6d.
each - a/9 per dozen. Venus Copying (Medium & Hard) 4d. each - 3/9 per dozen.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Pen and Picture
Shadow Shows
Up to a point
“Hone ymoon
Flats” is a
good example of
a kind of movie
that Universal
makes particu-
larly w r ell a
s t r i n g i ng to-
getlier of really laughable incidents that
manage, with the aid of funny sub-titles, to
carry forward the story. The turning-point
is reached about half-way through, and
thereafter the picture, the story, the humor
and everything else goes to pot. It would
almost seem that the producer constructed it
as he went along, and after the first few
reels became tired or Went on a bender. But
for the laughs that the early part holds it
deserves mention.
“The Case of Lena Smith” (Paramount)
is an interesting drama which starts out with
the best intentions and fails to realise them.
The finish, in fact, is as fortuitous ns the
blowing-out of a brightly-burning candle by
ESTHER RALSTON.
an accidental
draught. The
heroine is a
II u n garian.
Her name is
merely an
attempt artis-
tically to indi-
cate that her
life history is
the history of
universal
woman. Well,
universal
woman jilts a
sturdy peasant
wooer and
goes to Vienna
and the gay
life. There she
becomes the
mother of a
boy, the father
being a cal-
lous young dog
of an officer
in a crack
Austrian regi-
ment. She next appears as domestic drudge
in the house of the officer’s father, who is
Chief of the Bureau of Morals of Vienna.
The Viennese wowser catches her stealing
out to visit her baby. She is accused of
immorality and her offspring lodged in a
babies’ home. An official offers to let it out
for a 1000-crown consideration. She goes
to her lover for the money, and he shoots
himself. The verdict is suicide, but the
Chief of the Morals Bureau insists on exam-
ining her, whereupon she dramatically pro-
duces her marriage-lines. Justice was free and
easy in pre-war Vienna, if one may judge
by the evidence of this picture, for the tri-
bunal gives her six months in a female
reformatory to avoid a scandal in high
society. She escapes, rescues her infant and
returns to her jilted peasant lover. Here
malignant Fate leaves Lena Smith alone for
15 years. But he is only reserving himself
for a final thrust. The Great War breaks
out, and her son, now grown to a man, is
once more torn from her by the emissaries
of the late Franz Josef. The film is mainly
valuable for its trenchant if over-colored pic-
ture of the brilliance and brutality of an
aristocratic society dressed perpetually in
jackboots. As a curiosity it might be men-
tioned that one Bill Shakspeare looked at
the morals of Vienna in a play a few cen-
turies ago and came to the same conclusions
as the producer of this picture. Esther Ral-
ston makes Lena Smith a figure of con-
siderable pathos and veracity, and James
Hall is beautifully bowelless as the lieu-
tenant.
“The Singing Fool” (First National) is
another long A 1 Johnson talkie, obviously
designed to titillate the ducts of the evidently
enormous crowds who are not merely willing
but eager to pay good money for the privi-
lege of being harrowed to tears. Al, a
waiter in a New York tenth-rate night club,
writes average jazz songs on the “gal” theme
and tries to induce a blonde of the place to
take them as the outpourings of his lovelorn
heart. She declines, until a famous Broad-
way producer, having a night out, hears and
engages Al on the spot. Then Al weds the
girl, and for a year or so sings on, oblivious
of. the affair his wife is enjoying with his
friend. He wakes up when the pair clear
to Europe, taking Al’s small son with them.
Then Al goes to the terriers, but is uplifted
by the adoration of Grace, a girl of the
old club, w r ho had always loved him. He is
doing well when news comes to his dressing-
room one evening that liis son is very ill.
At the hospital Al takes the child in his
arms. and sings to him. One minute later
the little fellow dies, and Al returns to the
theatre heart-broken. He is, however, induced
to go on with his coon-song turn, and with
tears cascading down his fiial and the ghost-
face of the dead boy hanging, a transparent
screen, between him and the filmed audience,
he quavers out his heart-throbs. The rag
falls and Grace takes the insensible form of
Al in her arms. The picture is slushy with
false sentiment from beginning to end ; looked
at from even a middle-brow point of view, it
is as inartistic a s mud. But it is blood-
brother to movies that are breaking box-office
records at the moment, and it seems certain
that it will crowd theatres, too.
“The Physician” (Brit.-Dom.-Gaumont)
is unexpected inasmuch as it contains only
half a happy ending. Miles Mander, who
carries the same -expression of tragic gloom
through the 2J miles of picture, has been a
young dog in his day and presented the lodge-
keeper with a grandson. Exchanging the
temptations of the flesh for the attraction of
the bottle, he is in danger of dissolving into
an alcoholic wreck, when the vicar’s daugh-
ter decides to give him her hand and devote
her life to reforming him, enlisting a danger-
ously handsome young medico to help her in
the enterprise. Mander is temporarily re-
formed, but eventually goes off to London
with the mother of his infant. In the Gar-
den of Eden cafe there is a fine situation
when the two women fight for their futile
beloved. The man’s confession of parent-
hood settles the matter for the vicar’s daugh-
ter, and as she departs the inebriate cas-
cades down the grand staircase in an
avalanche of bon-bons, balloons and paper
ribbons, some doubt being left in the mind of
the observer as to whether he dies or is
spared for a final bout with the demoralis-
ing bottle. Nothing else is left to the
imagination, however. The daughter of the
vicarage goes home and marries the medico.
This is the unhappy ending, for stodgy act-
ing has failed to enlist one’s sympathy for
the gentleman. Nothing noteworthy in the
film; but it is good straight drama, of a
sort that the British producer is most at
home in.
The Palette
Norah Gordon modestly calls her show at
the Now Gallery, Melbourne, a record of a
short tour abroad. The Bulletin selects
for commendation “Early Morning,” a river
scene of half a dozen notes, all pleasantly
harmonised. Miss Gordon has an eager eye
for bright colors, but she does not so much
marshal them as allow them to stroll at their
ease all over the parade-ground. The result
is that her perspective is sometimes extra-
ordinary. There is no need, however, for
her to go off at once and buy a manual on
the subject. If sin; gave her bright colors
the proper tones the intoxicated buildings
and the streets that fail to run away from
one would automatically adjust themselves.
In the Australian section “The Honeysuckles,
Rosebud” is the most admirable.
Carlyle Jackson’s latest show at Mel-
bourne Athenseum reveals considerable
advance along the water-color line. In
“Shadows at Billabong,” for instance, there
is a very fine passage. But it could be
covered by a postcard. All the paint out-
side it merely betrays the frantic movements
of an artist endeavoring to get out of a hole.
Jackson, in fact, asks too much of his
medium, and also of his eye, both of which
are better adapted for rendering slight and
simple impressions than for creating pano-
ramic pictures. Which is a pity, for there
is room for much hope in his fragmentary
successes. In his oils, the medium asks too
much of him; and his pencil sketches are
of the kindergarten school.
A couple of good oils, some choice and
some indifferent water-colors make an in-
teresting show at the Fine Art Gallery,
Sydney, The artist, Tom Garrett, is re-
vealed as extremely painstaking, with a
strong idea of warm coloring and a fresh
outlook. One of his best things is called
“The Billabong,” but the color is as un-
Australian as an acre of Scottish heath.
The oils, “Dawn” and “The Monarch,” are
both fresh and fanciful.
“F.S.”: The chief attraction of Arthur
Streeton lies in his landscapes and
that charming quality known as romance.
In “Mirage, Riverina” and “Afternoon
Glow,” shown in Melbourne recently,
he reaches a particularly high altitude in
this domain. But romance is ephemeral as
well as charming. The reputation of roman-
tic painters, like that of romantic writers,
seldom lasts beyond their time, as the brief-
est consideration of the past will show.
Greuze was a romantic, but few would assert
that his stock is as high to-day as that of
Raeburn, who certainly was not. This
makes one wonder whether those Streeton
canvases—the . immense panoramas of blue
mountains presided over by conventionally-
decorative clouds—which contemporary cri-
tics hasten to label with the adjective “great,”
will be so regarded a generation or so hence.
There is usually some business in the fore-
grounds which is poor and careless, or, pos-
sibly, in the endeavor to be majestic in a
geographical way, the painter’s eye bit off
more than it could chew, so to speak. How-
ever, in his own particular department
Streeton stands on a peak alone. In fact, he
arrived there several years ago, as the simi-
larity between his recent annual exhibitions
shows.
The Inky Way
Copabella : Dance Fallaw, M.A., who is
to join the S. M. Herald as leader-
writer, is an English ex-sclioolmaster.
Before editing the Geelong Advertiser
he directed the destinies of the Char-
ters Towers Telegraph and the Cairns
Post. His first wife, an M.A., too,
conducted a girls’ college at Cairns. Fallaw
finds recreation in verse-writing (he has pub-
lished two slim volumes), in chess and in
teaching the young idea how to row. lie has
coached Geelong College senior eight for some
years. IDs second wife was his social
editress at Geelong; he had a Rotary wed-
ding at Canberra during the Rotary con-
terence. Tall, impressive-looking and digni-
mnnner, Fallaw will typify Herald
editorial traditions.
o„a D n VUS ” ; rJ h< ? ugh ver y young men, Jack
and Barney Taylor, of Forbes (N.S.W.) are
old in experience. When their father died
three years ago at a Country Press Associa-
tion conference Jack left a veterinary-science
course and joined his brother to carry on
n. e T , T C ° rowa St» RoNicle and the Oaklands
Oaklander. They sold these papers a year
ago at a very satisfactory figure and launched
the Western Sun at Forbes. Very few
country sheets have grown so rapidly.
Spare Sub” : A judgment which interests
every newspaper has been given in the
Supreme Court of South Africa. The Dutch
Nationalist organ had charged the Ox
Pp' s . Wlt] i falsifying the report of a speech
by Prime Minister Hertzog, and the Times
self ° r lat thls was a ]ibcl 011 llim
sdf The defence was that the allegation
applied only to the paper. The Court found
unanimously that a libel on a newspaper D
one on the man responsible for its conduct
was cast in damages and


Twill Ignition for Race Motors
Aero Motor s — and now
for the Motor Car
<y "
ONE of the most important motor-car engineering achieve-
ments of the year is the perfection by Nash of the Twin-
ignition, high-compression, valve-in-head motor for the
motor car.
It gives to the new Nash “400” greater power, quicker acceleration,
greater speed, with less petrol—the same remarkable performance
which already has made twin-ignition, high-compression, valve-in-
head motors supreme in racing and in aeronautics.
It is practically an engineering impossibility to have the benefits
of twin-ignition in the L-head motor. It is possible in the valve-in-
head motor, and Nash alone has taken this great step forward.
Drive the new Twin-ignition-motored Nash “400,” and you will
never again be satisfied with the performance of older types of
motors.
THE NEW
NAsra^DMOr
4
OOS6-8)
S 3
m
c
m
0
SIAV
v/' •
L
r>
3 KIV
2a. I
rj
sa
& - s
& / I
■4J
r
/
m
£
*<3>
H 5 □ N
T aurers.
Standard Six from £375
Special Six £4BO
Advanced Six £63o*
* Imported body.
Sedans.
£4so* (2-door) £470 (4-door)
£565* (2-door) £5BO (4-door)
£62o* (2-door) £635 (4-door)
Distributors for New South Wales:
WILLSFORD, LTD.,
132-134 Phillip Street,
SYDNEY.
’Phones: 8W2291 (5 lines).
Distributors jor Victoria and Tasmania:
RICKARDS BROS. PTY., LTD.,
567-573 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE, Cl.
’Phone: F 3114.
Distributors for Queensland and Northern Riven
PEELS, LTD.,
407-431 Stanley Street,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
'Phone: J 1561.
Distributors jor South Australia and Broken Hill:
AUTOCARS, LTD.,
58-72 Flinders Street,
ADELAIDE.
’Phone: Central 5500.
Distributors for West Australia:
ERIC MADDREN MOTORS, LTD.,
996 Hay Street,
PERTH.
’Phones: 85610, 87634.
TASMANIAN DEALERS:
THE SERVICE CO. OF TASMANIA, 166 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
E. MEERMANN, 135 Bathurst Street, Hobart.
BENNETT & GILBERT, Best Street, Devonport.


Repairs.
“OUR HANDS MAKE GOOD ARMS."
Firearms sent C.O.D.
53E3RT-
MADE TO KILL WITH SKILL
SUPER ACCURATE 22-CAL.
REPEATING RIFLES.
Mauser Model 2, bolt action, 25in. barrel, 5-shot
magazine, £6/5/-. Savage Sporter, bolt action,
24in. barrel, 5-shot magazine, £4/12/6. (Post-
age 2/6.) Winchester Models 56 and 57, 22in.
barrel, 5-shot magazine, £5 and £6/12/6.
The Wonderful Walther .22 Cal. Rifle, Auto-
matic, 5-shot magazine, 24in. barrel, £6/12/6.
Write for price list.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
Gunsmith, Importer of High-grade Firearms,
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
1438 Elizabeth Street (near Market
Street), Sydney
(LATE 110 BATHURST STREET).
Fishing Tackle to Tackle Fishing.
Welcome the Coming —Speed the Parting Guest with
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER,
RESCH’S SYDNEY BITTER BEER.
Ask for Resch’s by Name.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
[8
AIR TRAVEL IN
QUEENSLAND
Brisbane and Longreach.
All classes of aerial travel and transport
catered for. Passengers’ freight and mails
conveyed.
REGULAR ROUTE: Brisbane, Toowoomba,
Dalby, Roma, Mitchell, Charleville and North-
Western Towns now operating.
TAXI TRIPS: From Brisbane and Longreach
to anvwhere in Australia.
MOTH SALES AND SERVICE: At Brisbane
and Longreach.
Inquire from
QANTAS, LTD., Brisbane or Long-
reach, or our City Agents:
Messrs. BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne.
SPORTING
NOTHONS
Under the Whip
Though out of luck at Easter, William
Kelso has some promising young horses in
his stable. Inducement, who won for him
at City Tatt.’s meeting, looks like turning
out a good one at a mile and a quarter or
more; and Arrowhead (7 to 2), who cleared
away with a division of the Maiden Handi-
cap at Moorefield on Saturday, is decidedly
smart. Arrowhead’s victory was the easiest
of the day, though there was actually more
daylight between first and second in a divi-
sion of the Juvenile Handicap, carried off by
Tolgus (5 to 1), a nice sort cf gelding by
Rosewing—Pretty Marge. In this race, as
in the other division, an odds-on favorite
went down.
* * * *
Magnetic (3 to 1) showed a return to his
fine two-year-old form in the Flying Handi-
cap, for which there were 19 runners, lhe
bookmakers were evidently well primed, and
the tote paid a shade better odds, although
there were, of course, three divs. Tea Miss
(9 to 2) and Bavarde (6 to 1) were near-
est at the finish to the handsome Rossendale
gelding, who looks very w T ell and should win
again soon —perhaps at Canterbury Park.
Trahere (5 to 2) proved the best of a poor
lot of five in the Moorefield Handicap, and
Tarapunga (20 to 1) closed a beautiful day
for the bookmakers by downing Mr. Whiz
and Bravado in the Carlton Mile. This result
was a shock after the gelding’s previous
failures among fourth-raters ; still, he is by
no means a bad sort. He is by Ba.verstock
Lady Buckwheat. Bartle and Birmingham
each rode a couple of winners.
it * * *
For Rosehill on Saturday:—
Auburn Handicap: Don Moon; next,
Golden Grist.
Granville Stakes: Sir Tarsia; next,
Eillom.
Rosehill Handicap: Spaghetti; next,
Bavacre.
Highweight Handicap: Bravado; next,
Casque d’Or.
* * * *
Aspendale Park (Vic.) made a dead-heat
with Moorefield last Saturday for length
of programme—eight races each. Mel-
bourne punters began the day well,
but the successes of Menander (Cup),
Hardy and Malinche made bookmakers
who had refrained from fielding that
afternoon feel sorry for their faint-hearted-
ness. Several members of the ring have
sworn a vendetta against “down-the-line”
meetings. Are they merely indolent, or do
they seriously contend that, somewhere on
the habitable globe, places exist where the
punters always win?
Harry Gymer, whose bowed right leg
marks him out as a jockey who suffered for
experience in the saddle, is in luck again
as an owner-trainer. Spearer credited him
with several valuable stakes on the flat, and
now Epical has started to make good over
the battens. Epical (The Verderer —Royal
Medal) is held on lease from J. R. Corteen.
He went out joint favorite with Baldini for
the Hurdle Race, and after loitering behind
the field covered the last half-mile at express
speed, smothering Baldini and Lanilda in the
straight. Keep this horse in memory for the
Grand National Hurdle. When warmed up
he has beautiful galloping action, and further
schooling will bring jumping efficiency.
Strephon made his debut at Aspendale
Park. On the same course Lou. Robertson,
who trains him, registered a maiden victory
with his own horse Isocrates, by Sarchedon
—Etoru. Each three years old, Strephon
and Isocrates are alike in color and gallop
with similar length of stride. A micro-
scopical amount was laid against Isocrates at
3 to 1, the bookmaker who offered it being
made to totter on his precarious throne.
Isocrates touched evens, but eased to 5 to 4.
Fourth last (in a field of 35) to leave the
barrier, he made a leisurely advance towards
the front and won in effortless style.
Jack Holt was out of luck. He saddled
up Eutouche, a four-year-old son of Euryth-
mic, for the second division of the Maiden
Plate. Eutouche, who belongs to William
McCulloch, had to be operated on for wind
trouble as a juvenile. He let backers down
badly. The winner turned up in Jaberoo,
second favorite. Neville Percival, rider of
this prad, completed a double by steering
Malinche (10 to 1) to victory in the Welter
Handicap. This event was marked down
as a moral for Ring
Boy; but, despite
nis good displays
it Randwick, the
Maoriland -bred
gelding finished a
painful third.
Frank Dempsey
came to light on
Hardy (10 to 1)
in the first divi-
sion of the Purse:
but his handling of
Lysippus, a re-
puted certainty for
the next section,
excited the kind of
criticism which is
usual in such cases.
With Dempsey
on top, Lonicera
hung out badly in
the Aspendale
Plate and never
looked dangerous,
Double Duty win-
ning from end to
end. Holt trains
Lonicera. He
seemed to have the
Aspendale Park
Cup won with his
own horse, Tul-
lius ; but the Valais
gelding went under
to Menander, a
25-to-l shot, re-
jected from the
stable of Elwood
Fisher and now
owned by R. H. N. Landale, a pastoralist
who dabbles in racing.
* * * »
For Caulfield on Saturday:—
Glenhuntly Handigap: Kalloni; next,
Finsbury.
Brighton Handicap: Willowyn; next,
Isocrates.
* * * *
“8.H.”: The 12 months’ disqualification
imposed on Eric Connolly over the running
of Broken Doll at Flemington expires on
June 5. Entries for the Spring handicaps
and many other rich events close one day
before he becomes free to pursue the calling
in which his life has centred. So appa-
rently Erie is doomed to be shut out of par-
ticipation in the Cups for the second suc-
cessive year. He has taken his disquali-
fication to heart, and has rarely been noticed
about Melbourne streets.
* * * *
“Amateur Urger”: Australian punters,
with a lively recollection of the combined
State and club impost levied on the money
they flop into the tote, will sigh for a
flutter on the British courses when the
machine is installed thereon. All that the
Treasury proposes to pouch from the punter
is one-half per cent, and though it is not
mentioned, it is certain that, the club’s share
will be proportionate. The statement of
the Chancellor of the Exchequer that his
idea is to make the machine cheap and
popular will stagger some* of the Australian
heads, whose policy seems directed the other
way. On this side, the heavy taxation and
deductions, together with adherence to the
place system only, are gradually turning
the public back to the .bookmaker, from whom
the machine was to wean
*, „ ", ~ ‘ , ~ ~..
Breakfast Creek : Course double bett i g
on this and the next has been the custor
in Brisbane for years, though Tattersau s
Club went a long way towards squelching
the joke some time ago. However, the
game has been started again lately, and the
old phenomenon of second legs taken tor
the closing races of the day being unaccount-
ably scratched after the hrst pick has got
home in the early race has again appeared.
There was an agreeaole variation, however,
the other day, when a nag was picked by a
party of shrewdies for an early race and
coupled with pretty _ well everything that
looked worth-while in the _ later events.
Mysteriously, the much-fancied first-choice
ran a goat, and the fly-flats were lett in the
air. This wasn’t at Q.T.C. • headquarters,
by the way.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
An atte mpt to rehabilitate the noble art
in Melbourne waa ma de on Saturday night,
t j task being entrusted to Maorilander
Johnnie Leckie (Bst. 121 b.) and Claude
wiJ (&t 13Xb ) 0 f U.S.A. Though the
Q l wd J hand was not big, it was encourag-
j U g ( and the rousing scrap that the two little
fellows provided from the first to the last
S°ng should help to put boxing back to where
ft was before wrestling began to gather its
harvest of mugs. B rom the_ outset Johnnie
tore in like a whirlwind. If there was no
great weight in his punches there were plenty
of them, and Ins impetuosity put. Claude out
of his stride for some time. V\ lien he did
start Wilson was responsible tor some stir-
ring rallies, and went all the way with the
Maorilander in making the scrap the hum-
DIDN’T MISS THAT.
NEW ASSOCIATE: “Gracious! what did I hit?”
FEU-UP CADDIE: “Austrayler!”
mer that it was. The conqueror of Grime
received a well-earned decision.
♦ * * ♦
More comedian than pug. is Bobby La
Salle, who appeared at Sydney Stadium on
Saturday night against Maorilander Charlie
Purdy, and had the verdict recorded against
him at the end of 15 rounds. It is safe to
say that if Purdy’s punching power had
been equal to his cleverness the spectators
would have gone home long before they did.
Using a snappy straight left and a right
cross in the early rounds, Purdy scored points
with monotonous regularity against his
stronger and heavier opponent. La Salle’s
principal punch was a wild right, which
more often than not landed out of bounds.
He tried hard to land a convincer in
the concluding rounds, while Purdy, who
was very tired, sought refuge in frequent
clinches. La Salle’s weight was lOst. lO^lb.;
Purdy’s lOst. 31b.
Footbrawl
The N.S.W. Rugby League officially
opened its season on Saturday. In the
match between Balmain and South Sydney
the southerners showed fine combination, and
though they could not master the solid Bal-
main pack, they were strong enough behind
to win by 17 (3 tries and 1 4 goals) to nil.
Finch and Righton were the outstanding
Red-and-Green backs, Treweeke heading the
forwards. Robinson was in fine form at
centre for Balmain. At the Sports Ground,
where the attendance was not up to expecta-
tions, Eastern Suburbs met University in a
ragged game, East winning by 19 (5 tries
and 2 goals) to 10 (2 tries and 2 goals!.
There was little evidence of combination _on
either side, hut among the individualists
Busch was conspicuous at the base of the
Eastern scrum, while Shankland, formerly
of Glebe, showed pace and determination,
on the wing. Hanrahan, the makings of a
fine centre, was the pick of the Uni. side,
and was well helped by Delaney and Flana-
gan, a hard-working forward. The St.
George-Western Suburbs meeting at Earl
Park drew a full house, St. George just
scraping home by 9 (a try and 3 goals)
to 5 (a try and a goal). The game
was a bullocking one, confined to the for-
wards, and had Jim Craig been able to
turn out for Wests the verdict would pro-
bably have gone the other way. “Jockey”
Kelly showed a welcome return to his old
form for the Saints, while Lindfield’s hook-
ing stood Wests in good stead. The New-
town-Glebe meeting at Marrickville showed
the Newtown backs in a favorable light,
some fine combined work being exhibited ; but
Glebe proved just a trifle too solid, winning
by 7 (a try and 2 goals) to 5 (a try and a
goal). A feature of the game was the
excellent display of Alec Johnston, the ex-
South Sydney and inter-State half, for
Glebe. North Sydney beat Newcastle at
North Sydney by 20-10, Bailey, the inter-
state Newcastle forward, playing a great
game for the visitors.
* * * *
“Swing th’ Boot”: Carr and Harris, the
two N.S.W. League footballers who have
been playing with the Huddersfield club
in England, gave interviewers a vivid insight
into the professional code in the North of Eng-
land on their return to Australia the other
day. “Dirty tactics are practised with
impunity,” and “To be a successful League
player it is necessary to be useful with
your fists” were two of the gems dropped
during the comment by the pair. Also, it
was added, English players did not like;
“Colonials” and refused to combine in play
with, them, with the idea of preventing them
from keeping their places in the team. Under
the circumstances, it is not surprising to
hear that the Australians have been forced
to return owing to injuries received while
playing.
>Jt H* *
“Gate”: It having been announced from
England that the local Rugby League has
given a solemn undertaking that no Aus-
tralian member of a touring team shall be
allowed to join one of the North of England
professional clubs until a year after the
tourists’ return to Australia, many people
will, no doubt, heave a sigh of relief. Still,
there will be pessimists who will remember
that a similar undertaking made some years
ago by the English body was cast aside at a
moment’s notice, several Australian players
being purchased for a sum down and the
promise of a weekly wage. Failing a sub-
stantial cash guarantee, there is no reason
to suppose that the new undertaking is any
more watertight than its predecessor.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: The Rugby Union _ has
decided to fall into line with the cricket
authorities and the Rugby League, and adopt
the green jersey as the official colors of the
Australian team which is to meet Maori-
land this season. The green cricket blazer,
with its gold cords, is familiar to most, while
the Rugby League’s green jersey with gold
stripes was seen last year against the
Englishmen. The Union colors will be .all
green, with the arms of Australia in gold as
a badge. It is a pity, in a way, that the
old light blue in which the Wallabies and
the Waratahs proved their worth has been
relinquished. In earlier days it was the
custom to play in the colors of the State in
which the particular international match took
place. For instance, in the first Australia v.
England match ever played, that at Sydney
against Mullineux’s side of 1899, Australia
wore the light blue. In the second game, at
Brisbane, the Queensland maroon was
donned, and there are quite a few of the
old hands left who have the two colors laid
away in lavender.
it * * *
“Makarini”: Among the possibles for the
All Black team to cross the Tasman in
June is J. Mill, the crack half-back of the
1924 team, who is turning out again in
Hawkes Bay, after being absent from the
game for two years. The absence of pro-
mising young performers in the position is
causing the local pundits concern. Syd
Malcolm, of the Waratahs, made the talent
available last year look very ordinary.
(Continued on page 37.)
“Bee-line”: At Rooty Hill (N.S.W.) last
week too much was asked of the dawgs
in the coursing Derby. In the final Eden-
sor Boy at first cleared right away from
Maefadyen. Nearing the hare he faltered
and stopped. In the re-run the dog could
not produce half-speed, and Maefadyen prac-
tically had a walk-over. At the opening call
Mac was quoted at 200 to I—Edensor Boy
was well supported at 15’s. The Woodstock
r-”-. +n the dual Waterloo Cup winner,
Hillcourt Lass. The Lass has speed to spare,
and simply outclassed her opponents.
AN ELECTION ISSUE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The abolition of stag-hunting will be one of the
election issues in Britain next month. Hundreds of
candidates are already pledged to support it.
The stag at eve, ’tis likely, will
Soon placidly absorb his fill
Bans fear of being waked at morn
By bay of hounds and blast of horn
And knowing that he’ll have to run
Right hard to save his venison,
As all too oft has been the lot
Of antlered monarchs —vide .Scott.
No longer will he furnish sport,
Whether he be the Exmoor sort
Who roams him wild —brow, bay and tray-
Just as in Ivaterfelto’s day,
Or his less ferine counterpart
Who's liberated from a cart
And possibly acquires a taste
For being regularly chased,
Assured nor hurt nor harm’s designed
For him by those who whoop behind.
So, bit by bit, a fairer spin
Man gives his woodland kith and kin.
The badger goes his nightly way,
A harmless chap in sober grey,
And curls him in his holt at dawn,
No more to dream of being drawn.
The otter next they’ll leave in peace
Among his willowed brooks, and cease
With full a score of hounds to tear
After a single timorous hare.
The fox mayhap will keep his place
The longest as a beast of chase,
Cunning and speed in him being blent
With sturdy heart and pungent scent.
Withal, bold Reynard, I’ll engage
You, too, will flick your brush offstage—■
However much the thrusters miss you
When once you’re made a ’lection issue.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


THE STAND TAKEN BY
THE NORTHERN COAL-OWNERS
IS FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT
Our Coal Trade is partly gone, and is still dwindling. To resume under the old
conditions would be useless. All interests must combine to reduce the cost of production.
1924 (TONS). 1928 (TONS).
8,077,689 .. 5,978,480
4,688,356 .. 2,285,958
903,573 .. 694,517
1,690,749 .. 1,088,069
715,932 .. 262,477
VICTORIA, SOUTH AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND WILL PLACE
FUTURE CONTRACTS ABROAD, UNLESS OUR PRICES ARE REDUCED
AT LEAST 20 PER CENT.
Output from Northern Field . .
Exported from Northern Field
Sold to South Australia ..
Sold to Victoria
Sold to New Zealand
Why the Industry is Depressed
In 1916, our coal was sold for 12/- per ton. To-day
it is 25/-. Every increase since 1916 is the result of deci-
sions by Governments, tribunals, courts, commissions, etc.,
Not once has the price been raised by the Owners of
their own volition.
Railway charges have gone up from 1/1 per ton in
1915 to 3/8 per ton to-day.
These figures are taken from Government statistics:
1921. 1927.
Percentage from sales of coal which go to wages and salaries 63.1 67.9
Percentage from sales which go to overhead and profit .. 20.7 14.6
The cost of operating collieries has been much in-
creased by petty strikes and persistent absentee-ism. From
1919 to 1928 there were 2,898 strikes {official figures) on the
Northern field, representing a wages loss of over £6,000,000.
Strike levies connected therewith totalled over £500,000.
There has been deliberate and growing limitation of
output. The average production per underground em-
ployee in 1924 was 690 tons p.a.; in 1927, 607 tons.
Measures Proposed to Save Industry
The main items in the cost of producing coal are: (1)
Wages and salaries. (2) Freights and Government charges.
(3) Overhead costs and profits. (4) Materials used. Each
section should bear a proportional part of the proposed
reduction of 4/- per ton.
The Government is understood to be ready to reduce
freights and charges; the owners will sacrifice a propor-
tion of their profits; it is only fair and right that the mine
workers should take lower rates and wages.
Colliery operations have been increasingly hampered
by petty stoppages, absentee-ism, and the failure of the
Miners Federation to control members. The Owners now,
in order to secure efficiency, demand the right to freely
select and dismiss their employees.
If the unions will remove the restrictions now placed
on the workers, and return to the output per man of 10
or 12 years ago, they will suffer no loss of income under
the rates now proposed.
THE MINERS, BY CO-OPERATING WITH THE OWNERS TO SAVE THE
INDUSTRY (AS THEY WERE INVITED TO DO IN AUGUST, 1927) HAVE
NOTHING TO LOSE AND EVERYTHING TO GAIN.
For the Coalfields
Reduced Production Cost
means increased production,
more trade, more employment
and more wages for the miners.
Continuance under present
conditions means stagnation, in-
creased unemployment, further
distress among miners and their
families, losses by tradespeople,
and economic disaster.
The Owners will gain nothing directly
from a lower selling price, or from
reduced wages. The public will get
the direct benefits.
But public, owners and miners alike
will benefit indirectly through the
saving of the industry, the recovery
of lost trade and re-establishment of
regular employment.
For the Public
Reduced Production Cost
means cheaper working of rail-
ways (N.S.W. Dept, alone buys
about 1,300,000 tons p.a.), cheaper
gas, cheaper electric light and
power (Sydney City Council uses
approx. 290,000 tons p.a.), cheaper
operation of industries dependent
on power, increased employment
generally, and healthier trade.
PUBLISHED FOR THE INFORMATION OF THE PUBLIC BY
THE NORTHERN COLLIERIES ASSOCIATION
KEMBLA BUILDING
MARGARET ST., SYDNEY
c. m. McDonald,
Chairman.


One of the most dramatic scenes ever recorded
on the Screen. From a " Fox’' thriller,
featuring George O’Brien.
giS )mws W! .v,
k
f MM
■m
** !U«"r*V :S:S:
\<
k
i
v- ; V:
Famous People every-
where rely on Cream
of Yeast for rapid
relief from pain and
as a lightning
“pick-me-up.”
Never let “Down” mean "Out”!
When you’re feeling “down” and “off color," take i
care! Weakened resistance invites real illness that
may, for a time, put you out of the game.
Take Cream of Yeast and note the lightning benefit!
Headachey feeling gone; step brighter; a happy
smile; a pep that makes you feel like whistling
the latest tune! Just take a couple of Cream of
Yeast tablets now and know tlie thrill of having the
fight all your own way. Any chemist sells Cream
of Yeast at 1/11, 3/0 and 5/9. He sure you get
genuine Cream of Yeast, the constituents of which
are prescribed by leading medical authorities all over
the world. Famous film-stars and athletes say
“Cream of Yeast gives Iron Nerves.” Just try it I
II
o
SATURDAY, MAY 4.
Executors’ Auction 'of One of Melbourne’s Most Delightfully-situated
“rus in urbe” Homes.
“THE UPLANDS,”
Canterbury and Terrara Roads,
VERMONT, MITCHAM.
WMSZ
WmSm |ll
Standing in a lovely old garden, with wide-stretched, ever-changing views,
this 1 1-roomed Home, with many Outbuildings, Tennis Court, etc., will be
offered at 3 p.m. on the property by
COGHILL & HAUGHTON,
79 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
i>‘. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
uenerai, Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Fedeial Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Restful, quiet and cool—open to the Summer Sea Breezes. Delightfully situated with Private
Beach and Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort—Excellent Cuisine and Service.
Spacious Grounds and Garage Accommodation.
Summer Tariff f.'om 5 guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes’ trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines). Management M. E. BURROWS.
Footbrawl
“Swan”: What promises to be the star
went of the Westralian centenary celebra-
tions, eclipsing even the King’s Cup, is the
meeting of Victoria and Westralia on the
football field. The Vies, have invaded the
West twice before, and have been twice over-
whelmed. The Westerners are determined to
make a treble of it, and the battle promises
to be Homeric.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: The South Australian Football
League has lately been exercised over the
difficultv of distinguishing between members
of rival football teams owing to the simi-
larity of some of the colors. As a remedy, it
has ordered that teams must wear contrast-
ing knickers when in action. Thus, if Port
turns out in blue breeks Norwood will have
to wear white, and presumably pay for the
washing of them after. The idea seems
capable of extension in the direction of
making each club wear different colored
panties, these being registered as in the case
of racing colors. Or one might go further,
and make each individual player wear dis-
tinctively tinted garments, the gaudier the
better. It would certainly make for the
brighter football people are always asking
for.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: That fame is a fleeting em-
ber was evidenced the other day when a
Sydney paper announced that one Leapcr
Fisher, who was a “member of Sid Wright’s
Union team in Australia in 1904,” had
joined the N.S.W. Union Referees’ Associa-
tion. “Sid Wright” is what modernity makes
of “Bedell-Sivright,” the mighty forward who
captained the Britons on that tour. It was
with this side that Percy Bush and Tommy
Vile taught Australia and Maoriland what
modern half-back play was. Of the 19
matches played only two were lost, both in
M.L. Two members of the party remained
behind. B. I. Swannell was killed on
Gallipoli, and C. D. Paterson became pre-
sident of the Surf Life-saving Association
of Australia.
* * * *
“Gabba”: The opening of the Queens-
land Rugby Union’s competition in Brisbane
was successful beyond the highest expecta-
tions of its backers. There are five teams
playing, University having decided to remain
joined to its League idols. The football dis-
played Was surprisingly good, the game
between Y.M.C.A. and Valley, won by the
former by 24-5, being very fast and open.
WHERE KEITH ANDERSON PERISHED.
This photo is sent by George Glass, from Rumbalara, in Central Australia, the desert
country where Keith Anderson’s ’plane came down with such tragic consequences.
Mr. Glass writes: “I know THE BULLETIN gets into the most unexpected places,
but I did not think it was as widely read as the enclosed snapshot shows. The
photo was taken recently in the Musgrave Ranges. I don’t think these abos. have-
seen more than half a dozen white men in their lives, and only one of them has even
a few words of English. But they understood many of the drawings, and by this
time that BULLETIN is one of the tribe’s treasures, I shouldn’t wonder if it is regarded
as a worker of miracles —a new and hitherto unknown kind of sorcerer’s charm.”
To a public sated with the continual scrum
tactics of the League game the fact that
there were only 11 scrums during the game
was an eye-opener. Wynnum, a side
recruited from a farming and fishing district
near Brisbane, were too heavy for Commer-
cials, while Past Grammars had the bye.
On the opening day’s display, the Union
should have no difficulty in making good in
the northern capital.
* Jjs * £
“Amateur Pro.”: When the Australian
Soccer team toured Malaya last year, the
Comm nwi.alth Association made each man
sign a bond for £2OO that he would remain
an amateur on his return, allec same the
Olympic athletes. Now, several of the
players who have gone over to the profes-
sional Soccer League have received a
demand for the £2OO. Things are coming to
a pretty pass these days when a cove can’t
take a chance of getting paid for play as
well as work without some nark hopping in
to snout him.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: With tender memories, no
doubt, of the fat cash balance in hand as
the result of the tour of the last French
team, the Australian tennis heads have for-
mally invited another side to visit Australia
and make some more profit for the associa-
tion. Special invitations have been extended
to Borotra and Coehet, while Brugnon is
mentioned as another likely to make the trip.
Coehet and Lacoste have yet to show in
this country, and if they can only be per-
suaded to come the financial future will take
on an added glow. Tilden and Huuter are also
expected from America. Should the two parties
combine next season, we shall see about the
best tennis the world can then provide.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: In connection with
the recent charges of cheating levelled by the
N.S.W. tennis authorities at players in com-
petitions for which an umpire cannot be
found, one of the latter fraternity has been
explaining in the press why he and his kind
hang back from their invidious job. He
blames the attitude of many of the players,
who query the decisions of the urap., and in
addition “glare” at him in such a manner
as to make him uncomfortable. All the
same, the lot of the tennis umpire will be
envied by many of his brethren whose task
it is to referee football matches, especially
in Melbourne. It has not yet been found
necessary to supply an escort of mounted police
to ensure the umpire’s return to the dressing-
room unmangled. Still, it may come to that
in time, in which case the strong feminine
element in tennis will add seriousness to
the situation.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Sucker”: “Kowloon” (B. 13/2/’29) and
others needn’t worry about the date when
golf invaded Mid-Europe and other outlandish
places. They can write history by coming
nearer home. About the end of 1918 one
Graves landed at Longreach (C.Q.) with a
bag of clubs. Public opinion was divided ;
some averred he was a scientist, others
were as positive he was a lunatic. Now,
only a decade later, and in spite of droughts
and other depressions, Longreach has a town
club, while a number of stations have their
private links. Some years before the Ses-
bania station, in the VVinton district, tried
to foster golf, but after attempts to get the
disease acclimatised it languished and died.
Winton now is as badly infected as Long-
reach. It is the same all over Western
Queensland, though 10 years back a golf
club would only have been considered a flash
form of a stick for killing snakes.
* * * *
“Pardusi”: The British open champion-
ship usually brings together a motley assort-
ment of golfers from the ends of the earth,
but that due to commence next month pro-
mises to go one better than its predecessors
in this respect. For the first time since its
inception an Indian player will compete, this
being one Bnmbata, an assistant profes-
sional at the Durban Golf ('lub. Bambata,
who is only 4ft. lOin. in height and weighs
7st. 101 b., says he has taken this course
because the South African prejudice aguinst
colored men prevents him from playing
in any of the important events in his adopted
country. Bambata has entered for the Ger-
man, Belgian and Irish championships, so
he is evidently bent on making the most
of his new opportunities.
* * * *
“Kongoni”: Someone (B. 23/l/’29) asks
about the highest golf course in the world.
Over here in Kenya Colony we have half a
dozen higher than his 6000 ft. Pont Romeu
course, the highest being at Limoru, 7340 ft.
above sea-level and about 22 miles from Nai-
robi. Others are Njoro, 7113 ft. and 45 miles
from the equator; Eldoret, 6875 ft.; Gilgil, in
the Great Rift Valley, 6581 ft.; and Nakuru,
6071 ft. The Nakuru course was opened in
January, and is situated on the slopes of
Menetigai, an extinct volcano in the Great
Rift Valley, the crater of which is two miles
Wide. There being only 14,000 Europeans
of all ages in the highlands of Kenya, it
shows how popular the game is over here
when they can boast of having 10 clubs scat-
tered over the country. The premier club
at Nairobi, with its 27 holes, overlooks the
game reserve on the Athi Plains, where one
can always see herds of zebra and wilde-
beest, with an occasional giraffe.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: The Queensland golf
authorities are to follow in the footsteps of
their Maoriland brethren and levy on the
affiliated clubs to provide funds for the
employment of a touring professional. The
levy is fixed at 2s. per member, and the pro.
will tour the country clubs and give lessons
and advice generally. The scheme has
its attractive aspects, but it seems a wear-
ing life for the professional. There are
so many men in golf, as in other walks of
life, who not only cannot be taught but
refuse to be taught. That is why even
the most youthful of caddies wears the
characteristically hopeless expression of his
kind.
* * * *
“Glenelg”; Freak golf matches, once com-
mon enough, are how out of fashion. Ade-
laide saw one recently when W. A. Webb
and Sydney Rymill went round the Seaton
course using only their putters. Webb
eventually won in 85, which cannot be con-
sidered bad on a coarse bogied at 75. In
the old country more than one match has
been played with umbrellas, while the Scot-
tish pro. of long ago, Willie Auctherlony,
once played in one in which the long wooden
crooks used by the Scottish shepherds were
employed as clubs.
(Continued on page 39.)
“Hotham”: The Victorian cricket season
ended with University winners of the
premiership from Fitzroy. This is the first
time the Students have topped the roil
since the competition was begun in 1860.
They were without the inter-State batsman
Rigg, but good bowling by a’Beckett, backed
by first-class fielding, carried the day.


%
0
*
iff
it
*1
N
WILIYU
OVES&ANJ3
i
1 hiiiiC^.'^i^^jljjjlli
iWMw/1
(F .#
i : OU»S*Ni> SsX*:s;
RIISL™. Mi
edesigned engine insutes lotuet
operating costs
THE Whippet Six has always been
notable for operating economy.
Now comes the new Superior Whippet
Six, with a re-designed h i g h e r-com-
pression engine. This increase in
compression ratio results in greater
economy in the consumption of petrol,
assuring more value
from petrol used,
—t hir t y or more
miles per gallon.
The new Superior
Whippet Six is also
f/HG,
•><
With the remarkable
new “Finger-Tip
Control’’
faster, livelier and more powerful,
and performs brilliantly under all
driving conditions.
In beauty of line end color, the new
Superior Whippet Six is the style
authority in its class. Larger bodies
afford roomier interiors and added
riding comfort. Your
nearest Willys-Over-
land dealer will
gladly demonstrate
this finest ‘ of light
Sixes.
LOWER COST
OF OPERATION
n r oi'i3(fr)S' a oridv
PPETSIX
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LIMITED, Franklin Street, Adelaide.
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LIMITED, 173 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
OVERLAND (VIC.) PTY., LIMITED, 117-21 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
E. G. EAGER & SON, LIMITED, Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, Brisbane.
ADAMS’ MOTORS, LIMITED, 442 Murray Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LIMITED, 53-56 Bathurst Street, Hobart.
NEW superior whippet fours and sixes


N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
THE WORLD’S LARGEST COMMERCIAL FORESTRY CO.
SUBSCRIBED SHARE CAPITAL £235,58K
SUBSCRIBED BOND CAPITAL £2,750,000
BANKERS—THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND AND THEIR AGENTS.
SOLE BROKERS—SMITH, WYLIE AND CO., LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN BRANCHES AT MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE. BRISBANE TOWNSVILLE,
PERTH, HOBART AND NEWCASTLE.
NEW ZEALAND BRANCHES—AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON, CHRISTCHURCH AND DUNEDIN;
AND AT 36-38 NEW BROAD STREET, LONDON, E.C.2 ; JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA;
BOMBAY, INDIA; SINGAPORE; KUALA LUMPUR, FEDERATED MALAY STATES.
Jor Mellow Wild
ncsj
■
5
Select Club Reil Cigars, because they are
made of rich Havana leaf, fragrant and
flavorsome. . . .and delightfully mild. Club
Reil Cigars are obtainable at hotels and
tobacconists’ or at address below.
ORDER BY POST.
Ptob«eUft-
CIGARS^-^
CRAIG &AITKEN- 654 GEORGE ST, SYDNEY
DISTRIBUTORS FOR CLUB REIL CIGAR FACTOki.
WINCHESTER
TRADE MARK
CLEAR, QUIET RECEPTION—
Good batteries, like good chil-
dren, should be present but not
heard.
Winchester “B” and “C” bat-
teries between you and your
program insure high reception
satisfaction. Their full-sized,
uniform cells make them vital
with power. They are posi-
lively insulated to prevent
short circuits and to eliminate
battery noises. They give long
service with sustained high
voltage.
Put Winchester batteries in
your set tonight. Then sit back
and enjoy the program in
comfort. Moderately priced.
For sale by dealers everywhere
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS COMPANY
New Haven, Conn. U. S. A.
11-28
%
%
%
Ml)™?' 1 '
1
w
rt(W
tAO<>
' •' V
,
■
Write for
Illustrated
Catalogue.
THE
“WINTON,”
£l6/10/-
THE “WINTON”
PERFECT
STOCK SADDLE
A first-class saddle designed to increase
the comfort of horse and rider. The posi-
tion of the pads gives perfect security for
rough riding, and the combined flap and
skirt give a’ narrow, non-chafing grip.
The panel has wide leather points to sides,
and the fittings included in the price are
folded girth, bevelled leathers and solid-
nickel stirrups.
For cash with order we pay freight to
any station on N.S.W. railways.
w
WALTHER S STEVENSON, LTD.
SADDLERS,
395 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Car and Cycle
“Der Jong”: As I write Malcolm Campbell
is expected to have a shy at Segrave’s world
speed record at any moment. Campbell will
have a tough hurdle to fly in the 231.36
m.p.h. set him by Segrave, but is talking of
beating that by 20 m.p.h. The hard, dry
going on the Pan should certainly be faster
than the wet sand at Daytona.
* * * *
“Disc Clutch”: A page was added to
motoring history recently when a 1922 model
six-cylinder Studebaker completed the first
run between South and North America.
Starting from Rio, it took two years to
reach New York, the route including the
crossing of the Andes, and the traversing of
jungles, rivers and deserts innumerable. One
experience included the burying of the car
by an avalanche in the Andes, Jose Barone,
the driver, escaping injury, though his
mechanic was killed. Barone was a flying
man in the Italian Army during the
war, and is a noted speed- and endurance-
driver in South America. The car, though
outwardly rather battered, came through the
ordeal splendidly, the long-suffering engine
carrying Barone over the last lap on the
excellent Yankee roads without trouble.
* * $ #
“Garry”; During the first 10 or 15 years
of its development the motor-car became
increasingly complex. Each year saw
more gadgets on the dash-board and additions
to the engine-room furnishings, all requiring
understanding and attention at the hands
of the motorist. In late years the
appetite of owner-drivers for mechanical
frills has declined, and the tendency has been
to make everything as simple and easy for
them as possible. Automatic lubrication,
engines that to a very great extent look
after themselves, and the fool-proofing of
details that used to give trouble to the
inexpert have made motoring child’s play. A
late example of the trend towards sim-
plification is the Studebaker petrol feed-pump,
replacing the vacuum-tank system. The
pump’s an inconspicuous thing, weighing
only 31b., worked off a camshaft on the
motor, and it supplies the carburetter with
spirit in exact ratio to engine speed, which,
of course, is regulated by the driver in the
ordinary way through the accelerator pedal.
* * * *
“Buzz”: At Cintsa Sands, near East
London, in South Africa, a 3i-h.p. B.S.A.
cycle cut out 85 m.p.h. over a five-
mile run. Segrave’s performance is only
2.70 times faster than that of the motor-
cycle, yet to attain it he employed an engine
H. D. WOOD, president of the N.S.W.
Rugby Union, and a clever and nippy
inter-State full-back in the years that
the locust hath eaten.
286 times larger—that is in capacity. Wind
resistance, of course, was much greater in
the case of the car than in that of the
motor-cycle.
* * * *
“Tappet”: A good motor-cycle ride must
be credited to H.. Barlow, of Broken Hill,
who recently covered the 1600 miles’ journey
between the Barrier and Brisbane to win a
wager. He contracted to travel over a set
route, and, starting at noon on a Thursday,
to reach Brisbane before midnight on the
following Monday. Mounted on an Indian
Scout, he rode direct from the Hill to Syd-
ney and thence turned northward. In spite
of heavy rain and boggy going, he followed
the railway line to Warwick, and, crossing the
range at Spicer’s Gap, landed in Brisbane at
four on Monday afternoon—eight hours to
spare.
* * * *
“Whizz”: An unusual sort of motor-cycle
record was put up at Montlilery the other
day, when a team of six riders rode a
British 350 c.c. Dunelt machine 25,000 miles
with the engine running all the time, the
distance exceeding the world’s waist measure-
ment at the equator. The actual riding time,
the team taking turn about in the saddle,
was 23 days, 2 hours and 8 minutes, and the
daily average was 1080 miles, the approxi-
mate mileage per hour being 45 miles.
Miscellaneous
“The Gaffer”: The intrusion of women on
the field of amateur athletics is bad enough,
but the dears have now taken to the pro-
fessional game, and in South Australia of
all places. _ Recently several of the girls
turned out in some special events rigged up
-or them at a big professional meeting, and
the result has been the formation of a sec-
tion in the professional body for women
members only. I am glad I’m out of the
game for keeps. The average male ped. is
a heart-breaking cow to handle—as full of
tricks and temperament as a performing
monkey. What the woman performer will
be like in the cash game gives me a head-
ache to think about.
* * * *
“Bumpk”; To commemorate their 25th
birthday, St. Stephen’s Harriers, Melbourne,
contemplate a relay race from Melbourne to
Sydney. There will be 20 runners and the
enterprise of covering 560 miles is expected
to take a week.. A feature of the stunt will
be the co-operation of the motor-car. Partici-
pants will be driven to their points of depar-
ture, where the incoming man will be awaited
by a motor-van equipped with a rubbing-
down board and a masseur.
* #
“Mariri”: D. McLennan, Maoriland’s
greatest sprinter, is to train under C. M.
M alden next season, and is anxious to take
his trainer with him when he invades Aus-
tralia next March in an attempt to take tin-
world’s championship sprint event at Mel-
bourne. Walden made a champion out of
McLennan, and in a little over two years
the boy has won round about £3OO.
* $ * T
“Hotham”: The Victorian rowing autho-
rities got the shock of their lives on the
day when the State crew selected by Cecil
McVilly for the King’s Cup in Perth was
badly licked by a crew picked from the
three Ballarat clubs. Though McVilly’s
crew had been boated together for some
time, and the goldficldcrs had been hastily
thrown together, there was only one in it.
The race was the result of a challenge
issued by Ballarat when the personnel of
the State crew was announced. Under the
circumstances there was only one thing for
McVilly to do. lie accepted the situation,
cancelled his original selection, and for-
warded the names of the victorious Ballarat
eight to the executive as his final choice.
* * =x *
“Lignum”: Recent Buliktin reference to
the ferocity of bowlers was well borne out
in Sydney last week, when the Australian
Bowling Council decided to adopt the Vic-
torian ftJrm of bowl-testing taole, and push
the Queensland variety, which lias hitherto
been in use, through the window. It was
with difficulty that the fiery northern dele-
gates were restrained from bloodshed. They
finally retired shaking the dust of the Coun-
cil out of their whiskers, and announcing
that they intended to stick to their own
brand of table in spite of the Federal body
and all its works.
* * * *
“Splash”: There is evidence that tennis is
not the only game in, which the working of
invidious points occurs. The latest scandal is
in connection with amateur swimming, it
having been declared by authority that many
prominent Sydney swimmers, when taking
part in the annual time test by which their
handicaps in competition events are later
arrived at, have deliberately been running
byes with the object of getting a bit of the
weight off, or, to be correct, getting a bit
more of the time on. All club books have
been called in by the association, which
also alleges that the practice of “ringing in”
has grown to alarming proportions. There
was a similar fuss some time ago in connec-
tion with the women’s section, but outsiders
with a knowledge of the sex in sport took
little heed of what to them was an inevit-
able happening.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: Beyond reaffirming the
principle that only bona-fide amateurs may
compete at the Olympic Games, the Olympic
Council, which recently met at Lausanne in
Switzerland, again dodged what it has long
been requested to settle, the precise defini-
tion of an amateur. At present the declara-
tion of what constitutes an amateur and
what a professional is left to the various
bodies controlling sport which are affiliated
under the title of tjie International Federa-
tion. Thus the Rugby Union’s professional
ban on the Rugby League imposed years
ago still holds good, and under present condi-
tions will do so until the Union consents
to lift it. It is an anomalous position, and
the power to make a final decision on the
matter should be vested in some central
authority—if not with thel Olympic Council,
then with a special committee of the Inter-
national Federation.
* * * *
“Magpie”: British riflemen have been
enthusing over Miss M. E. Foster, who
put up a world’s record with the rifle at
Bisley recently, scoring the possible 105 in
a club shoot over the 200, 400 and 600 yards
ranges, or seven consecutive bulls at each
range. Since the reduction in size of the
bull’s-eye last year, no marksman has
achieved seven consecutive bulls at any
range. All the same, it is good betting
that the lady is no better shot with the
rolling-pin or the dinner dishes than the
average housewife. If she is, there is
calamity in store for someone.
* * * *
“Grafton”: The body controlling N.S.W.
woodchopping competitions, which are hav-
ing their annual boom, decrees that competi-
tors must “dress properly.” The hefty cut-
ters of the Atherton (N.Q.) tablelands, who
generally chop stripped to the waist, would
kick against such frills. The Grafton Show
will see Les Appo, Ward, Murrell and the
McCarthys in action. Grafton is looking
forward to beating them with its North
Coast champions.
* * * *
“Shinguard” : The Australian hockey team
for Maoriland will hop off for the Dominion
early in July. This will give players from
the Eastern States who are taking part in
the inter-State matches at Perth a chance
to get home and settle down before leaving.
It is unfortunate that the inter-State event
should be played so far away this season, for
it will inevitably mean that manv players
who undertake the long trip to Westralia will
be unable to get leave for the still longer
absence in Maoriland. One tour or the other
will be handicapped in consequence.
* * * *
“Bash”: An ominous note was struck at
the meeting of the N.S.W. Baseball Umpires’
Association the other day, when it was re-
solved to ask the baseball authorities to
provide “proper equipment for their safety.”
Visions of mounted-police escorts, as in Mel-
bourne football, were dispelled when it was
explained that this meant protective masks
and body-armor resembling those worn by
the catcher. The request was consequent
on a new rule compelling the umps. to “call
the game” from behind the batting plate


To Mark Linen
(CASH’S NAMES are dcstinctive*
yet neat fadeless and durable)
Actual Sue,
Style No 6
i <0 I
Prices: 1 2 doz. 7/6, 6 do*. 5/-, 3 do*. 3/6
SOLD BY LEADING DRAPERS..
Write for Name Style Circular to
J. f’hJ.CASH Pty.Ltd.
85 Cubits St.,Richmond, Melbourne
CASHS NAMES
Washing RIBBONS
FOR LINGERIE
I" AS HEW ArrER REPEATED WASHING '
'^sssamamL
22232
JPJiatitatt
5&0«
“TRU-SPORT”
L 529. —A new Maenaught
Model in 7 different com-
binations including Hava-
na Brown and Calcutta
Lizard, Nutbrown and
Mushroom Calf.
In pump or welted
soles and covered or
leather heels... .34/6
if
rmm
25?
Write for Catalog X
FOR LADIES £- CHILDREN
189 PITT ST. 22 STRAND. 105 KINO ST
7hp cen/pp of OuPons/ancfs
'ef/s/ingutshec/ Soc/o/ Li/e.
%otel
BRISBANE
ŵ
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780—10 Lines.
Me lbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Ten Rooms
[?] Contral 800 [?]
Buckley e-Nunn Limited
[?]
This is an era of artistic shopping bags,
for the woman of to-day believes in the
decoration of articles of utility. The parcels-
carrier of the moment is usually bright
enough in hue to relieve a dull costume, and
in many cases is shaped on graceful and
striking lines. Brocade, shot-silken finished
linen and other materials festively embroi-
dered are used to fashion such receptacles.
An alluring example seen in Collins-strect
lately was long and somewhat narrow. It
was fashioned of fine plaited shaded green
raffia; and around the top was a deep band
of cornflower-blue linen worked with pink,
white and yellow daisies. The handles were
green. That bag seemed to cheer up the
whole block on a grey wintry morning.
The latest shape in hats has evidently
been inspired by the fisherman’s sou’-wester.
The brim curves up in front and droops over
the nape of the neck. Its trimming gen-
erally consists of a scarf attached to both
sides, crossed at the back and drawn around
the neck, tying under the chin in a smart
bow, as poke bonnets were made wind-proof
in the days of Kate Greenaway. The arrange-
ment suits many faces. A hat in the
most lately-fashionable shade, known as capu-
cine—it’s merely a very ruddy orange—with
a scarf of a lighter shade, would make a
bright note with the dull-colored ensembles
of winter.
Mary, daughter of the landed Joseph Fells,
came to the city to wed Dr. It. Kingsley
1 >awborn one day last week. White chiffon,
from which silver lace melted into a train,
and a lengthy tulle veil was the bride’s
array, and she carried a sheaf of gold
.and white lilies. Una Cato and Sheila Daw-
born 'maided in frocks of pink of different
shades, softened with blonde lace and topped
by turban toques of silver lame. Guests
were invited to celebrate the occasion at
Menzies’.
Amongst the messages received by Mrs,
J. T. Corry’s youngest daughter Kathleen
Mary on her wedding day was a cable from
brother Frank, a Dominican novitiate in Dub-
lin. The knot was slipped by Father Hogan
at the Oratory of the Dominican Priory,
East Camberwell, the bride’s suburb. The
bridegroom was Andrew William, only son of
Mr. and Mrs. T. .J. McGalliard, of Alberton.
A shimmer of satin and clouds of georgette
formed the bridal gown, topped with a veil
of Limerick lace lent by a sister, Mrs. W. L.
Moore. Sister Nancy, as a ’maid, girded her
pink frock with a sasli of delphinium taffeta.
There were after-rejoicings at No. 9.
Zoe, only daughter of Auditor-General
J. A. Norris and Mrs. Norris, changed her
name last week to Worrall, her bride-
groom being David, son of the T. J.
Worralls, of Sydney. For a wedding gown
she chose ivory crepe satin, white tulle and
orange buds, her two ’maids achieving a
foliage effect in apple-green frocks among
whose folds mingled daisies, and felt hats,
also of green. Guests were marshalled at
Chastleton after the ceremony at the Inde-
pendent Church, Collins-street.
When Irene Hanson attended Brougham-
street Methodist Church to wed Ernest
Nixon she was arrayed in a cloud of white
georgette with a foam of tulle train. A
hand-made Madras veil was caught with
clusters of orange blossom. Her niece, Ida
Dickinson, was a blue-frocked train-bearer,
and Isla Vaughan and Margy Nixon ’maided
in lemon georgette dripping with silver. The
bridegroom is the second son of the J.
Albert Nixons, of Piney Park, Redlands
f N.S.W.), and his bride is the youngest
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Hansen,
Enfield, Parkville. Her uncle, the Rev. J.
E. Warren, assisted by the Rev. L. Perkins
and the Rev. Tippets, forged the bond. There
were celebrations at Edenhope.
Boy Scouts, nicely laundered, lined the
marble steps of the Town Hall and haunted
the vicinity on Friday night advertising to
the world that the Mayor’s Ball for their
association was in progress. Within, Scout
and Wolf-pack flags hung in groups oyer
the balconies, and on the stage a camp with
Union Jack flying was pitched in a clearing
of tree-ferns and eucalyptus; the tent marked
with the totems of various companies. A
realistic fire with a billy and other cooking
utensils was guarded by two Scouts, into
whose Eden no mosquitoes intruded. Though
he’s Chief Scout of this State, Lord Somers
bared not his knees, but came in the cus-
tomary solemn black, accompanied by Colonel
and Mrs. Davidson. Mayor and Mayoress
Luxton, she in ruby georgette, gave welcome
to his Ex., supported by Mr. and Mrs.
H. G. Mcßoberts and the Tom Luxtons.
Mrs. Mcßoberts was in black velvet and
tulle, with a sparkle of coral piuk with rhine-
stones, and Mrs. Luxton chose applique of
dull blue flowers. H. J. Martin secretaried
the hop, with a quintette of society girls as
ticket secs. A small diamond fleur-de-lis
brooch, presented by Hardy Bros, as a prize
for the lady holding a lucky-number pro-
gramme, helped to swell the attendance,
which was close on 500. The Rotary Club
was represented by a big quota of members.
In the colorful assemblage, made brighter
than usual by the crimson mess jackets of
military officers, were the Robert Knoxes, and
with them Mrs. \V. Taylor, of Overnewton,
with a glimmer of crystal and black be-
neath a blue-and-silver brocade coat. Aileen
Taylor, lately returned from India, was in
pale green, shimmering in silver embroidery.
Mrs. R. M. Cuthbertson danced in cafe-nu-
lait georgette and lace. Mrs. George Rus-
sell’s pale amber gown wus all a-glitter,
and Mrs. 11. Mackennal was arresting in a
bright blue lace frock and red satin shoes.
The Melbourne Hospital Almoners’ Com-
mittee, until lately the Social Service body,
is making an effort to bring its activities
into line with those of similar organisations
in London. For five years these voluntary
helpers have carried on for the benefit of
discharged convalescent patients a service
that co-ordinates home, hospital and doctor.
In addition a kindly eye is kept on the home
during a patient’s stay in hospital, and an
attempt is made to shield the patient from
worries otherwise inseparable from incapaci-
tation. Realising the wide nature of its re-
sponsibilities the committee has decided to
bring from England a tliorouglilyArained
Almoner who will be competent to instruct
others in details of the work. A hundred tables
were booked for a bridge party at the Rex to
raise funds for this project. Mayoress Lux-
ton was president of the committee for the
card-gathering, Mrs. 11. I. Cohen and Mrs.
Kent-Hughes sharing the duties of ticket-
sellers. Foremost among the workers were
members of the Almoners’ Committee, with
Mrs. Edgar Dye president, Mrs. Robert Hun-
ter and Mrs. 11. I. Cohen vice-presidents,
and May Rimington lion, treas. Mrs. M.
Lang, Mrs. Thompson and Mrs. J. Clen-
dinnen led the sales ladies.
Gladys Moncricff, clad in apricot-tinted
georgette traced with lines of bugle beads,
.topped with a coat of silver tissue and white
fox, was a guest at a supper dance on Satur-
day night. The after-tlie-theatre gathering
at the Francatelli was put on by a few
members of the entertainments committee of
the Alfred Hospital to aid the institution’s
finances, and was baptised “Rio Rita” as a
compliment to the .members of the co. assem-
bled, some of whom sang or danced. The
staff of the restaurant worked overtime with-
out payment, and the management of the
rendezvous did its bit, so returns should be
substantial. Balloons, carnival caps and
other trifles added brightness to decorations
of white trellis trailed over with autumn
leaves and gaily-shaded lights. Mrs. Barry
Thomson, with starry-gold sequin motifs on
a powder-blue gown, Mrs. Maurice Batkin,
whose flounced mauve and silver frock had
a gleam of pale green beneath, and Mrs. P.
H. Lock, in chanel-red crepe satin, were
chief organisers. In the throng were Muriel
Starr, in filmy black; Ruth Nugent, in a
lengthy frock of apple-green taffeta; and
Janette Gilmore, in black lace allied to white
taffeta. Dr. Barry Thomson had his first
party outing since his accident, and received
congratulations on his recovery.
Women don’t, as a rule, distinguish them-
selves in the study of philosophy, but Olga
Parker, pi c-
tured here by
Spencer Shier,
provides a bi'il-
l i an t excep-
ti on. As a
student at our
Uni., philo-
sophy was her
special subject,
and after
graduation she
was invited to
become a tutor,
in which capa-
city she has
served for the
last four years.
Now romance
has colored
her studious
career, and her
engagement i 3
announced to
another seeker
after knowledge, John W. Warren, son of
the Rev. and Mrs. J. E. Warren, of Moonee
Ponds. Mr. and Mrs. W. Salmon Parker,
of Sandringham, are receiving congratula-
tions on their daughter’s choice.
Dainty as ever. Nellie Stewart received a 3
great greeting at the Comedy when she re- t
turned to the boards on Saturday night as t
Sweet Nell. She is much frailer than of
yore, and the huge white-feathered millinery v
of the King’s favorite almost extinguished j
the wee face beneath. The audience was t
with her all the way, and it was a very t
happy Nell whose pink satin-shod feet care- (
fully dodged the pile of flowers that spilled }
from baskets and sheaves as she stepped to s
the footlights to offer thanks at the final cur- rj
tain. Slapoffski waved a baton over the ]
orchestra. i
Jack Cato here introduces Jack Barry t
Thomson, only son of Dr. and Mrs. Barry -
Thomson, of i
Cliveden Man- t
sions, and a
very versatile ,
young man in- )
deed. He was '
grounded a t ,
Xavier, and
was only 16 ?
when he jour-
neyed to Lon-
don to con-
tinue his musi-
cal education ]
at the Royal .
Academy. ,
There he also
studied dra-
matic art, and
he got some
prof essional
experience of
the stage in
London an d
New York. Ro-
turning to Australia, the restless youth had
u prominent part in “Outward Bound,” and
he has lately been appearing with Muriel
Starr. He dabbles in musical composition
—some of his efforts have been heard over
3LO and at the Rex —has tried his hand
at playwriting, is busy making a mov-
ing picture, and has a talent for fashioning
tables and chairs and such useful bits of
furniture. And with all he is not yet 21.
Gertrude Healy and her violin drew a
worthy audience to the Assembly Hall one
evening last week, when she was associated
with Harold Smith, who played accompani-
ments and solos. The volinist received a
wealth of appreciative offerings, including
a fiddle framed in violets and mignonette.
Her bottle-green velvet gown had lengthy
side embellishments of taffeta of sage green
with a glint of blue. Mayor and Mayoress
Edwards, of Kew: Mayoress Hattam. of
Malvern; Mrs. Albert Miller, the Fritz
Harts and Basil, and Mrs. Tweddle and her
daughters were in the audience.
The report of the treasurer of the Animal
Welfare League shows that “Animal Week”
collections last year brought in a net return
of £BB5. Of this, £207 was handed to the
Rest Home for Horses, and £350 went to the
Dogs’ Home, leaving £325 to carry on the
league’s activities. At the annual meeting
held at the home of Mrs. Norman Brookes,
it was decided to hold three general meetings
each year. Mrs. Brookes, Mrs. Arthur
Payne and Mrs, Keep Offering the use
of their homes in turn. Mrs. Frank
Andrew and Mrs. Arthur Payne were elected
vice-presidents, Mrs. A. Morley being ad-
vanced to the executive. Mrs. James Purves,
the lion, sec., was made general secretary,
with an assistant. A pleasant meeting ended
sociably with tea in a setting of silver bowls
of pink and red carnations.
The Women’s Convalescent Home, Clay-
ton, benefited from a v.ery interesting con-
cert at the Queen’s Hall. Contributors to
the bright programme were the male quar-
tette known as the Meistersingers, Louise
Dean at the piano, Percy Pledger with his
fiddle, contralto Ella Riddell, wearing a
blue gown with glitter of crystal, and Nellie
Hetherington, who warbled negro spirituals
to her own piano accompaniment. Nellie is
an aboriginal from Queensland, who was
adopted 23 years ago by Sister Hethering-
ton, her mother having died. She is the only
survivor of a family of 10 children. She
has a distinct talent for music, playing
several instruments. At the concert s.he sang
“Where Are My People To-night?” with real
feeling. ' An abo. song was another of her
offerings. Mrs. Ernest J. Sage, who was
one of the accompanists, is giving the girl
some singing lessons —Sister Hetherington
and her charge, who helps greatly in the
Sister’s mission work, are staying with Mr.
and Mrs. Sage.
Mayor and Mayoress Hattam, of Mal-
vern, headed the big audience that flocked to
the civic hall on Saturday night for the first
concert of the season by the Malvern Sym-
phony Orchestra. Soprano Jessie McMicliael
was the only soloist to receive offerings of
flowers, which blended nicely with her gown
of petunia mauve. In the audience were
Mrs. W. Mallinson, Mrs. Fred Clarke, with
her daughters Dorothy and Marjorie, and
Miss Margaret Irving. Members of the com-
mittee wore entertained at supper by the
Mayor and Mayoress after the concert, when
tributes were paid to William Mallinson,
the conductor.
Employees of Swallow and A riel 1 _ rolled
up in full force to wish managing-director
F. J. Derham a pleasant tour and safe re-
turn. The farewell shivoo was staged at
the Port Melbourne Town Hall. A dressing-
case and some pipes were tributes to the
head’s popularity, and Mrs. Derham had to
say “Thank you” for a travelling cushion.
There was also a gift for daughter Eileen.
Elsie Holmes, the energetic leader of the
firm’s body of charitable workers, known as
the Busy Bees, was co-sec. with .Tames
McDonald of a pleasant evening of music
and dancing. The Derham family sail in
the Comorin.
Charity happenings of last week included
a ftite —which nowadays means an al fresco
bazaar—at the Convalescent Home for
Women at Clayton, which had not previously
made a public appeal for funds, though it
was opened 40 years ago. The response was
gratifying.
The committee which has been gathering
funds for a statue of Adam Lindsay Gordon
has applied for and is likely to obtain a site
in Spring-street, close to Parliament House,
where the Eight Hours Day monument used
to stand. A few yards to the south of the
spot desired is the statue of another Gordon
—the hero of Khartoum, lit between is the
pretty fountain reserve. The fountain is
the work of a convict in whom the late J. A.
Panton, P.M., took an interest while the man
was in Pentridge. In more enlightened
and tolerant times the amateur sculptor
would never have seen the inside of a gaol.
On the same day the W. J. Wearnes lent
their Toornk home to help St. Vincent’s Hos-
pital and footed tin l hill for exes. Under the
direction of the Melbourne and South Mel-
bourne branches of the hospital auxiliary
there was varied entertainment of cards, cafe
chantant and a tennis tournament. Mrs.
Merson Cooper roped in the musical talent,
James Liddy, of “The Vagabond King,” head-
ing the vocal stars who lifted voices for the
cause, which in this instance was the stock-
ing of the institution’s larder. Mayoress
Luxton announced that in recognition of
Mrs. Wearne’s services to St. Vincent’s, the
hostess had been appointed a life-governor.
Arthur Bobinson and his lady are rejoic-
ing in a short visit from their daughter Nan,
who last year, in London, became Mrs.
Huntly Griffith, and changed her domicile to
India. The Alexandra Club had floral adorn-
ment when the Robinson lady served tea
in honor of the recent bride, who brought
some of her wedding-cake for the guests to
sample. The hostess was clothed in one of
the new figured ring velvets —black, pat-
terned in roseate spots—with a black hat,
and Mrs. Griffith was in beige georgette, with
felt millinery of the same hue. Among the
guests were the Elder lady, Mrs. Harry
Emmerton and Mrs. Arthur Hordern and
her daughter Mary, lately returned from an
oversea tour.
Steaming outward by the Comorin, with
a European cour in prospect, is Mrs. A. J.
C. de Bavay, of Cairns (Bananaland). Cap-
tain dc Bavay journeyed to Adelaide to wave
his wife adieu. During their few' days in
Melbourne they stayed with his parents at
Kew.
The committee, headed by that notable
philanthropist, Mrs. James Alston, which is
interested in the Loreto Free Kindergarten
recently gathered its friends at Scott’s for
bridge and music, to increase the L.F.K.
bank balance. Mrs. Charles Watson was the
lion. sec. of the happening, and receipts,
which w'ere swollen by sales of lollipops and
posies, w r ere substantial.
Lady Doughty, wffio has been wintering
in the Riviera with Alma Tunbridge, of
Ballarat, has decided to vacate the Paris
flat in which she has entertained so many
Australian friends during the last six years,
to once again become a Londoner. The pair
arrived in the gay city in time to sw r cll the
gathering at Duffie Kennedy’s wedding to
R. G. Erdely, celebrated at the Russian
Church. Mrs. William Collins’s daughter
Beryl, from Queensland, was the only ’maid,
and Audley Gibson, of this city, was a spec-
tator.
Laborite friends presented Dr. Maloney,
M.H.R., with a cake on his 75th birthday.
On the previous day lie was able to leave the
private hospital in which he had been under
treatment since lie returned from Canberra
after his sudden illness there. Dr. T. P.
Mclnerney, who must be nearly as old as
his friend, was one of the non-Laborites
present —he had a short run himself as a
member of the Leg. Assembly when this
century was an infant. Ex-Premier Prender-
gast is 24 days younger than Maloney,
and he complains that on that account the
little doctor has always treated him in a
fatherly fashion.
Melbourne Club has acquired the property
adjoining it in Collins-street on its eastern
side and has converted it into professional
chambers. Probably the club will soon be
the block’3 solitary oasis in a desert of shops.
It has four on the w r est side already.


-4
ental Pearls
Specialists in FINE PEARLS
PEARL NECKLACES
Largest Selection in Australasia.
Small Graduated Strands from £lO.
Larger Necklaces from £lOO to £5OOO.
Inspection Cordially Invited.
A selection of Loose Round Pearls of Finest
Quality is always maintained for Adding
to Customers' own Necklaces.
Mail Inquiries receive Prompt
Attention.
Five per cent. Discount for Cash
An experienced staff attends
to the Cleaning and Re-
Strin&in& of PEARL
Necklaces on
the premises.
r
Wm.DRUMMONDcCO.
THE HOUSE FOR FINE PEARLS
v 344-346 COLLINS ST MELBOURNE
Books for all Trades
Price. Postage.
Stainless Iron and Steel. Manufacture, etc. By J. Monypenny 26/- 1/4
American Soap Maker’s Guide. Up-to-date Treatise on Manufac-
ture of Soaps, Candles and Allied Toilet Preparations.
Stanislaus 60/- 1/8
Alternating Current Rectification and Allied Problems. Mathe-
matical and Practical Treatment. By T. Jolley 36/- 1/3
Electric Rectifiers and Valves. By Guntherschulze 19/- 1/-
Electric Switch and Controlling Gear. Handbook on Design,
Manufacture and Use of Switch Gear and Switchboards, etc.
Garrard 7S/6 1/6
Household Refrigeration. Complete Treatise on Principles,
Types, Construction, Operation of Ice- and Mechanically-
cooled Domestic Refrigerators. Hall 21/- 1/-
Marine Boiler Management and Construction. Treatise on Boiler
Troubles and Repairs. Stromeyer 26/- Bd.
Oil Analysis. Handbook. Gill 22/6 Bd.
Internal Combustion Engine. Textbook on Gas, Oil and Petrol
Engines. Wimperis 16/- Bd.
Thread-cutting Methods. Jones 15/- 1/-
Drilling Practice. Hammond 10/- 1/-
Automatic Screw Machines. Treatise on Construction, Design
and Operation. Hamilton 10/- 1/-
Foundations of Bridges and Buildings. By Jacoby 36/- lOd.
Concrete Year Book, 1929. Handbook. By Faber 6/6 6d.
Automobile Welding with the Oxy-acetylene Flame. Practical
Treatise. By Dunhan 7/6 4d.
Processes of Flour Manufacture. Amos 12/- 4d.
Galvanising. Theoretical and Practical Treatise. Bablik .... 16/- 6d.
Diesel Engine. Running and Maintenance. By Smith 4/6 4d.
New Ford Car. Brown 3/6 4d.
Wood-carving. Woodworker Series 4/6 4d.
Electric Wiring. Principles and Practice. By Bursill 6/6 6d.
Sawmill and Wood-converting Machinery. With Notes on Con-
struction, Speeds, etc. Bale 6/6 4d.
Sketching in Lead Pencil. For Architects and Others. Salwey 10/- Bd.
Die-making. Practical Work. Colvin 12/- 6d.
Machine Tools and Workshop Practice. By Parr 20/- 1/4
Ford Electrical Equipment. Starting, Lighting, Ignition .... 12/6 4d.
Electrical Equipment of the Motor-car. By Moreton 21/- 1/-
Motor-cycling Manual. All About Motor-cycles 3/6 4d.
Art of Flying. Captain MacMillan 5/- 4d.
Boys’ Book of Wireless. How to Make Crystal Set. Two-, Three-
and Four-valve Sets 5/6 6d.
Write for Lists on all Technical /Subjects to
N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Ltd.
Technical Book Shop,
CASTLEREAGH & MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
ẁ
KIDNEY TROUBLE CAUSES YOUR WEAKNESS!
CHRONIC BACKACHE, SLEEPLESS, NO APPETITE, HEADACHES
TAKE THIS WARNING
SUDDEN pains in the back, limbs aching with sharp, painful twitchings,
headaches, “dead-tired,” too-old feeling, worn-out, sleepless—Nature
flashes her signals to the brain, disclosing deep-seated kidney trouble.
mi 7i
Why do you go on suffering day after day,
month after month, when a host of men
once suffering as you do, many bed-ridden,
have come from ‘‘untold agonies,” terrible
depression to splendid vigor and' vitality?
There are thousands of healthy men and women
once chronic sufferers who could tell you De
Witt s Kidney and Bladder Pills can be relied on
m cases of Rheumatism, Kidney Trouble, Loss
of Vitality. They would also tell you that you will
be very wise to invest in a box of this 40-year-old
standardised remedy. There is no mystery about
De Witt s Kidney and Bladder Pills. Your chemist
can tell you all about the prescription clearly
printed on the box. Furthermore, he sells this
remedy under distinct guarantee that in 24 hours
you will see and know the pills are doing you
good. If not, your money is refunded.
®uatemt££ 1
From the very first
dose “De Witt’s”
will prove their
health restoring
value. That is our
guarantee.
Doctors in many countries and
thousands of one-time sufferers
recommend De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills for the speedy,
certain way they bring health.
Take just these two from a host
of recent letters of thanks:—
Mr. William Paul O’Keeffe, 163
Pyrmont Street, Pyrmont, N. S.
Wales, says:—
“I suffered for many years from
Kidney and Bladder Trouble, and
though I had tried many remedies
I gained little relief. I saw your
Kidney and Bladder Pills adver-
tised, and secured some. I im-
proved straight away, and after
taking a few bottles I was free
from all my pain. I consider they
are wonderful, and will advise all
sufferers to take them and benefit
as I have done.”
Mr. John Rogers. 69 Harrow
Road, Auburn, N.S.W., says:—
“Three years ago I suffered very
badly with Kidney and Bladder
Trouble, and was in constant pain.
m
m.
p
rf*
■<<
th
o
:S
$
VT-^-v.i-i
)i
■:
I
:
i- *.? r A -"
V ,
tjgjjr v-i- " •VV -V '-'V:
• : ,
i/ /y
i
THERE LIES THE SECRET
OF YOUR TROUBLE
(The Remedy is told of here)
I tried all sorts of medicines with
very little result. A neighbour told
me about De Witt’s Kidney ami
Bladder Pills. I took some, and
after three or four doses I noticed
improvement. After two bottles I
can say I am now in perfect health.
I am very thankful, and, have told
many others about De Witt’s Kid-
ney and Bladder Pills.”
Why not let De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills start you on the
road to health to-day? Go to your
chemist and get a 3/6 or 6/6 sup-
ply; take them regularly. You will
be amazed how quickly health will
come. If you really want health
and the vigor and vitality that
make you enjoy work and pleasure,
do not delay this matter. Act to-
day. If you are not near a chemist
write for a supply. The sooner you
have “De Witt’s” in your home the
sooner you wall have once again
health and splendid fitness. Re-
member. there is no substitute,
nothing just as good as “De Witt’s”
—the remedy with the guarantee.
De WITT’S
THE REMEDY THAT SHOWS
RESULTS IN 24 HOURS
KIDNEY AND
BLADDER
PILLS


Under
Royal
Warrant
m
Vintage 1920.
To H.M.
Kin^
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE
MesMiecl
SWIMS
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
>- '
wn
n
CHAMPACNE
Q»aiicslleidsic«>
Reims
ir *.„ i ~<=»*'
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Uhe WENTWORTH
Unanimously voted the Coolest Place in Sydney, it is the
choice of the discriminating hostess for the entertaining of her
guests, afternoon or evening.
On Mondays the whole of the Ballroom and Palm Court is
reserved for Bridge Players. Other afternoons, “Lyn” Christie
and his rhythmic symphonists make fly the hours between
3 and 5.30.
A perfect cuisine, exhilarating music, a satin-smooth floor—
what more could you have to make your Dinner or Supper
Party an unqualified success?
Order Wines before 6 p.m.
For Tables, Ring 8W1361
52MacleaySt.
Limited
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT
( Located, within the City Boundary, seven
minutes jrorn G.P.0.)
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 150 Rooms, is now open and
features Two-, Three- and Four-
room Suites, each with Bath; also
Single and Double Rooms. Central
Heating, Running Water and
’Phones installed in each room.
Unsurpassed Harbor Views.
Weekly inclusive tariff,
from £5/5/-
Daily, from .. . £1
Telephone: F 2 16 1 (8 lines) ; Tele-
graphic address: “Fifmac, Syd-
ney.
AWOMAN'S
LETTER
kayser
SLIPPER
HEEL
SILK HOSIERY
Under .the approving eye of Dr. Arthur,
Minister for Health, Sydney embarked upon
an open-air orgy of milk-drinking last week.
The bottle was hit hardest in Martin-place
and Customs House-square, where you could
line up and negotiate your half-pint for Id.
and throw what you didn’t drink on
the pavement. There were official lun-
cheons all the week, where toasts were
drunk in the undiluted product of the
cow and its nutritive qualities extolled
in glowing periods. Its virtues and
vitamines were screened in picture-theatres,
broadcasted from radio stations, school-
teachers preached them, and, best of all,
there were free distributions daily to the
children in congested areas. Altogether it
was a highly-commendable crusade; the only
pity is that it hasn’t reduced the price of
the commodity which is at once a drink and
a food.
Vice-regal favors were divided on Satur-
day night. Lady Stonehaven and Lady de
Chair listened to pianist Arthur Benjamin
at the Town Hall, while Sir Dudley and
daughter Elaine watched Pavlova tripping it
at the Theatre Royal. Elaine wore rose
velvet and a cloak of green metal brocade.
Jessie Tail, her turquoise beads contrasting
with her Titian hair and ivory satin frock,
sat with Gretal Bullmore. Mrs. Mervyn
Finley’s diamonds flashed when the electric
bulbs faded. Mrs. Leslie Walford, in deep
blue trappings relieved ropes of pearls,
was with Mrs. Roy Buckland, another
smartly-gowned figure in black and gold.
Quite a slice of Sydney has spent recent
Sundays walking in Centennial Park. The
ponds that reach towards Kensington gleamed
silver, and the lawns were rich with the beds
of saffron cannas that stood splendidly erect
in the windless afternoon. Beyond them
were the dahlias, tawny and amethystine
and palely gold; velvety petunias grew
thickly; brave roses, red and pink and white,
still persisted in their blooming, and across
the way the water-lily pond was so lush with
leaves that you only guessed the water
underneath was faintly starred with cream
and pale-pink buds. Small dark trees ringed
the edges of this sedgy place, while from a
higher slope came the gleam of white tree-
trunks.
The Stewart Dawson couple are off on
a jaunt to the land of lochs and heather.
They take with them the warmest of good
wishes, for their kindly deeds have been
many. St. Margaret’s Hospital owes a good
half of its financial strength to the lady
who has ’worked incessantly for years in its
interests; and the committee gathered in full
force at the Ambassadors on Friday to say
good-bye with flowers and perfume. Fire
Brigade president T. J. Smith handed over
the bouquet and the decanter, with yet
another bouquet of appreciative tributes.
Health Minister Arthur was of the company,
and he too had something to say about the
good works of David and his wife as he
handed the proprietor of the big jewellery
establishment a travelling clock —a gift
which suggests how difficult it is to choose
a present which the recipient really needs.
There was a big trek from Orange to St.
Patrick’s, Church Hill, last week to attend
the nuptials of the H. C. Webbs’ daughter
Grace and Brian Dalton. The bridegroom’s
uncle, Father P. J. Dalton, officiated. Soft
white georgette and tulle enveloped the
pretty bride; her sister Ruth and bride-
groom’s sister Myra ’maided her in soft
pink ; Tom Webb and Hastings Newton did
the squiring. The Mary Elizabeth housed
the cake and heard the toasts.
The traditional red carpet gave place to
royal blue for the satin-slippered feet of
Margot Phillips when she stepped into the
Synagogue last week to become Mrs. Murray
Benjamin. The bride is the eldest daughter
of _ the Alfred Phillipses, of Como, Potts
Point. She wore a lovely gown of vellum-
tinted satin and a veil of Venetian point
lace. Her ’maids, Nora and Florence Phil-
lips, Helen Cohen and Elaine Michaelis, were
autumn symphonies in tulle. George Cohen
was best man. The marriage feast was held
at Como.
Barrister Noel, son of the well-known
solicitor H. E. Mclntosh, has affianced him-
self to Edith Forsyth with a diamond solitaire
in platinum. The bride-to-be is dark and
slight, the elder daughter of John Forsyth,
trho is Dymocks. Young Mclntosh is known
as an eloquent advocate. He was a member
of the Sydney University debating team that
vanquished Oxford in 1926, and in his under-
grad. days was an outstanding tennis-
player ; nowadays he is more addicted to
golf-ligks.
There is a romance that dates quite a
long time back in the case of one newly-
engaged couple, though the lass is no more
than 19. She’s Janet Glasson, only daughter
of the W. 11. Glassons, of Gamboola station,
Molong, and her fiance is Cecil Purser, elder
son of Ur. and Mrs. Cecil Purser, of the
Astor, Macquarie-street. When the lad was
fresh from school he jackerooed on the Glas-
son station for experience. The only daugh-
ter was then eight. Now there’s a homestead
at Dubbo waiting for her to share and a
diamond ring to encircle the promise.
A Brussels-net veil over 100 years old,
lent by Mrs. G. C. Davis, was worn by
Doris, the eldest daughter of the P. Turners
of Bundaberg (Q.), when she was married to
Itoy Cox, at St. Philip’s. The veil, kept
in place by a circlet of orange blossoms, fell
in graceful folds over a charming ivory satin
frock; on the flared skirt were true-lovers’
knots in Chantilly lace outlined with pink
pearls; an armlet of cream roses, white gladioli
and lily of the valley completed the picture.
Sister Mildred ’maided, carrying a posy of
pint gladioli and mignonette, with trails of
begonias falling among the frills of her pink
tulle skirt. Roland Cox was best man. The
bride’s aunt, Mrs. Garnet L. Buss, frocked
in coral-pink ring velvet, received the guests
at the Wentworth.
Pretty Doone Rostron came all the way
from Coonamhle to St. Philip’s to maryy
Charles E. Perrote, and all the way from
Bathurst came Archdeacon Oakes to help.
The bride, who is a daughter of The late
Lawrence Rostron and Mrs. A. C. Rostron,
of Neila station, walked up the aisle on
brother-in-law F. C. Pye’s arm. Her frock
was of soft white satin, had the cross-over
bodice, and the gracefulness of skirt that
comes from flares. The train, which was
lent by Mrs. Herbert Fitzsimons, gleamed
like moonlight on a stretch of sea. Knots
of orange-blossom held the billowy-silk tulle
which had 1 been worn by the bride’s
mother. Mrs F. C. Pye was matron of
honor. Her frock of maize chiffon had a
two-tiered skirt with handkerchief points,
and a becoming brim was worn by the sum-
mer felt hat of the same shade. Her arms
were filled with the gold and bronze of
autumn glory. Toasts at the Wentworth,
where Mrs. Rostron received the guests, her
posy of pink roses looking effective against
her black ring-velvets and chiffons.
Erigolia is an out-back settlement in
Wyalong district, where some of our re-
turned soldiers are endeavoring to wrest a
living from the soil, a drought being their
latest affliction. A bush nurse’s job in such
an environment has special hardships of its
own. The Eastern Suburbs branch of the
C.W.A. sought to lighten them a little last
week by presenting a Sylvia stretcher to
the bush nurse, whose hessian humpy had
previously been replaced, through the good
offices of the same C.W.A., by a tiny three-
roomed weatherboard cottage. Mrs. Hugh
Munro handed over the gift to Sister Morrice
at the Rushcutter’s Bay tennis courts enter-
taining parlor.
Mrs. R. C. Hagon, here pictured by Falk,
is leading the campaign for the £25,000
needed to re-
lieve the dis-
tress among
tubercular sol-
diers and sail-
ors. The kind-
ly-hearted lady
also finds time
a n d energy
and money
to devote to a
host of other
d e s e r v ing
charities, in-
cluding the
appeal for the
Adult Deaf
and Duin b.
Her pet hobby
is gardening,
a n d the
grounds of
Teswell, her
p i c t uresque
home, perched
on tlie highest cliff-top at Edgecliff, are
full of loveliness and fragrance. There
are shrubs in this delightful high-walled
garden that have been gathered from all
over the world. A golden bloom from Monte
Carlo throws its scent for yards around on
spring nights.
The morn before she left by the Comorin,
Mrs. H. V. Bennett partook of the cup that
cheers and its accessories in the Queen’s Club
at the invitation of representatives of bodies
constituting the N.S.W. committee of the
Australian Federation of Women Voters. The
guest is one of the delegates to the British
Commonwealth League Conference in Lon-
don, and to the International Women’s Con-
gress to be held in Berlin during .Tune. Mrs.
Albert Littlejohn gave the lady the gather-
ing's blessing and a gold pencil.
The Lindfield Music Club celebrated the
close of its first year’s activities with an
evening of harmony under the baton of
musical-director Charles Philip. The club
now has 220 members, most of them song-
birds.
The hand-
some young
Australian
whose portrait
decorates this
column is
Edna Davey,
one of the
most distin-
guished of the
many fine girl
swimmers
which Sydney
specialises in
producing.
Holder of sev-
eral State and
Australian
championships,
she was the
first Australian
woman swim-
mer selected
t o represent
this country at
the Amsterdam Olympiad last year.
Mrs. ex-Water Board W. J. Millner was
welcomed back from her world tour with
glud greetings, flowers and music by the
Women’s Country Club. The handsome
matron was impressive in a Paris creation
of black ring velvet. Mrs. President George
Irvine gave her a posy; and there were other
floral tributes for Mrs. Stanley Wilson and
Miss Wilson, visitors from Urunga, and Mrs.
>S. Slacksmith, who was having a birthday.
Mrs. Millner’s daughter, Mrs. Arthur Booth,
and daughters-in-law Mrs. T. G. and Mrs.
W. Millner were other special guests. Later
in tlie week Mrs. Millner was welcomed by
the Women’s League. She took her hearers
round the world in less than half an hour,
throwing in a few impressions of the Pan-
Pacific Conference and messages from the
British Commonwealth League. In addition
to the social amenities there was a paper
read by Mrs. A. V. Roberts advocating better
protective legislation for women in industry.
The Royal Empire Society took the dust-
covers off the upholstery and decked its
spacious rooms with the most gorgeous of
autumn blooms one starry night last week.
Then it held a reception with music.
Newspaper-tobacco knight Denison, head
beacon of the society, lent his amiable pre-
sence, and went home loaded with sym-
pathetic messages for his lady, who was kept
away by ’flu. In her absence Mrs. C. V,
Potts did the honors as hostess from the
enveloping folds of a shaded green shawl
covering a gown of black chenille georgette.
Mrs. John Garlick flashed diamente from
the folds of black velvet, Mrs. John Waugh
and Mrs. George Earp being also in the
black-gowned brigade. There were some
sumptuous velvet gowns on view, and beauti-
ful shawls of varying hues were worn by
Mrs. A. Copeland, Mrs. E. Goodland, Mrs.
J. R. Wilshire and Miss da Silva Waugh.
Mabel Batchelor and basso Charlie Smythe
sang ditties and Lawrence Campbell elocuted.
Rose Day usually happens in October,
but its consistent workers gather honey all
the year, and a cabaret at the Ambassadors
added to the lay-by last week. That cham-
pion charity-worker Mrs. Harry Burrell
joined Mrs. E. Joils in entertaining a big
party.
The Royal Society of St. George hon-
ored England’s patron saint last night by
a dinner at Sargent’s, with the Governor and
his lady as the principal guests. Ex-Premier
Holman’s mellifluous voice was uplifted in
some well-turned periods, and president J.
H. King beamed pride on the society as it
held its twenty-third annual festival. Earlier
in the day there had been a church service
at St. James’s, conducted by the Rev. Dr.
Micklem, during luncheon-hour. Secretary
George Fitzpatrick directed proceedings
with an energy that suggested he wouldn’t
have minded killing a dragon or two himself
to commemorate St. George’s achievement.
The strains of the Artillery Band floated
around the Victoria Barracks one afternoon
last week, when the officers’ wives gave a
valedictory to Brig.-General Dodds’s wife
and daughter Ina. Mrs. J. L. Hardie was
hostess. The Doddses left for Melbourne on
Saturday, where the Brigadier is now
Adjutant-General.
The Lyceum Club threw off its usual higli-
brow-air one evening last week for a bridge
party in rooms glowing with chrysanthemums
and dahlias. The new abode in Pitt-street
will be occupied next month, and the party
was held to give a lift to the furnishing fund.
Scholastic Mungo McCallum and his tali
spouse, with their daughter Mrs. Lightoller
and her medico husband, were among the
players.
The Institute of Journalists made Customs
Minister Gullett guest of honor at their first
social gathering of this year. Charlie Bean
was in the chair, and told how he “glowed
with pride” when he first met Gullett in
Belgium, and heard the British war corres-
pondents’ opinion of their Australian col-
league. Professor Wallace, vice-chancellor
of the University, was among tlie guests. In
a heathery burr he confessed to a certain
apprehension at having to meet the allied
force of journalists, but an invitation to
luncheon was such a serious matter to an
Aberdonian that he had conquered his fears
and accepted.
On Thursday, July 25, the first annual
ball of the Eighth Field Ambulance will
take place at the Wentworth.
The younger folk of St. Brigid’s, Marriek-
ville, danced last week to reduce the debt on
their church. The floor was crowded and
the tables looked as though every garden in
Sydney had been robbed. Madeline Mad-
sen was president, and her daffodil ring
velvet frock intensified the gold in her hair.
In the crowd the ermine wrap of Mrs. John
Fuller caught the eye; her husband helped
materially to make the girls’ first endeavor
a success.
To-night, Wednesday, is the ball for the
Hospice for the Dying. Tables can be
booked at the Wentworth.
Marjorie Mann, the only child of the ex-
director of the National Art Gallery, goes
off to England this month under tin; guard-
ianship of cousins. The pretty brunette’s
mission is to study art in London and later
on the Continent.
The Australian Mothercraft Society
lured a big host of its friends to David
Jones’s for a rubber of bridge and a game of
mah jongg the other afternoon, the proceeds
being earmarked to give Nellie Stewart a
lift in the Metropolitan Fire Queen compe-
tition. The shuffle of cards was accom-
panied by the crunch of salted almonds,
which found an even readier sale than the
sweets and cigarettes purveyed by a bunch
of pretty maids, whose territory was pointed
out; to them by Mrs. John Fuller, Mrs.
Ken Austin and her sister Margaret Allen.
Among the players were the respective con-
sorts of Dr. MacCormick, Sam Ilordern and
Justice Owen.
The Blue Bird girls—that’s what the little
folk of the Free Kindergarten call the jolly
set who for three years has helped to ease
the financial burden of the Outpost Kinder-
garten—gave their third annual cabaret at
the Ambassadors last Thursday. President
Ruth King and secretary Peggy Windon each
entertained a party of 20, and treasurer
Estelle Trusty—what a name for a treasurer!
—brought along a big company.
Mary Kenny got a hearty send-off at
David Jones’s blue room last week before
leaving for America; friends came as far
as from Goulburn at Mrs. Bede Mooney’s
bidding. The good-bye offerings included a
cabin-trunk and travelling rug, along with
books galore.
Born in Maitland in 1841 and married
there in 1861, Mrs. Sarah Vincer brought
into the world 16 Australians. In New-
castle the other day six sons, five daughters,
45 grandchildren and 26 great-grandchildren
gathered to honor the old lady’s birthday.
One son is publisher of Sydney Mail.
These beauty competitions! Word comes
from Paris that a “Miss Europe” has been
selected to go to America and match charms
with the western continent’s nominee at
Galveston. The selection was made at an
international beauty show in Paris in Feb-
ruary, smiled on by President PoincarS and
other celebrities. “Miss Europe” is a Jewess,
daughter of a Hungarian doctor; she was
“Miss Hungary” before winning the more
comprehensive distinction, and her real name
is Elizabeth Simon. Another Jewess in
“Miss Austria” was one of her most formid-
able competitors. Incidentally, it is alleged
that neither girl has ever used cosmetics or
lipstick.
If you happen to be near the Common-
wealth Bank, Pitt-street end, or the Hotel
Australia, turn into the quaint little alley-
way, Rowe-street, for a peep at the win-
dows of the Society of Arts and Crafts.
Here are shawls and scarves and alluring
batik and brush work that conjure up visions
of Eastern bazaars. All have been designed
and executed by members of the society.
The Queen was in her counting house
counting out her money—at least she would
have been if the Firemen’s Art Union had
been instituted when the old rhyme was
framed. For the Firemen’s Art Union always
means a Queen competition. Every hos-
pital nominates a Queen, and she who finally
brings in the most votes, and consequently
the most money, for her institution is Queen
of all. For the first time the fire-fighters have
nominated a Queen of their own. She is
Miss D. Bowron, daughter of the station
officer at Newtown. Among other gaieties
planned to raise money for support of her
claim to sovereignty will be the Golden
Helmet Ball dated for June. Nellie Stewart
is the Queen of the Australian Mothercraft
Society, and a Sweet Nell stamp is being
issued as a raker-in of thrippences.


m 4-
as
Ik
( >
c?=r
XV
a
ALGERIA
and the surrounding
country have become one of
the great playgrounds of Europe.
The traveller steps into a new
world. Here are the Moors, de-
scendants of that great Arab host
which colonised Northern Africa
and conquered Spain; Berbers,
Negroes, French Zouaves and
Spahis, Soldiers of the Legion!
Beyond Algiers, desert cities and
oases are to be reached by motor
trip.
Travel by Orient Liner to
Toulon, thence by direct
steamer route to Algiers.
ORIENT LINE
CRUISES
Illustrated literature and Fare Lists obtainable from Orient Line Offices or Agencies.
Amusements.
CYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
° J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: THE DESERT SONG
ROYAL: PAVLOVA
CRITERION: YOUNG WOODLEY
PALACE: NO. 17
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.*
J c. WILLIAMSON, L T D.~
* MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
THE VAGABOND KING.
ROYAL:
THIS YEAR OF GRACE.
ING ’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EXTENDED SEASON OF
LEON GORDON in
THE GHOST UPSTAIRS.
ME W COMEDY THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
NELLIE STEWART as
SWEET NELL OF OLD DRURY'.
|_l O YT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
° MELBOURNE.
RALPH LEWIS in
COOKS CAN’T WIN.
MABEL POULTON in
TROUBLESOME WIVES.
To Let.
M. U. THEATRE,
Rockhampton, Central Queensland,
Opposite Birch & Carroll’s Wintergarden.
HTHEATRE available for Race and Show
* dates, Friday, 21st to Saturday, 30th
June. 1929. Races four days; prize-money,
£3750. Show, four days; prize-money about
£1550. Seating accommodation about 1200.
Stage, 48ft. by 31ft. Proscenium, 25ft. wide;
height, 24ft. "Electric light throughout, also
direct-current power, fire-proof picture-room
(no machine). Trustees prepared consider
offers for season on percentage basis. Fur-
ther particulars apply
J. W. NUTTALL,
Secretary.
Missing Friends.
I EYDEN, MICHAEL, formerly of Carlton
and a brother of Margaret Beamish,
deceased, will hear to his advan-
tage if he communicates with NATIONAL
TRUSTEES COMPANY, 113 Queen Street,
Melbourne.
Tenders.
MUNICIPALITY OF GLENELG
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S PREMIER
SEASIDE RESORT.
'"TENDERS will be received until 5 p.m.
* on June 1, 1929, for the right to occupy
Beach Sites at Glenelg for Novelties, Games
or Amusement Devices, for one or more
seasons, extending November to April.
Only limited number available.
Full particulars and conditions obtainable
from the undersigned.
No tender necessarily accepted.
By Order.
F. A. LEWIS,
Town Clerk.
Town Hall. Glenelg,
12th April, 1929.
OLD BACKS AND
JOINTS MADE YOUNG
From pain and weakness to healthy vigor
in quick time is the rule -with Harrison’s
Pills, the signed remedy of a London doctor.
Nothing like Harrison’s Pills for rheumatism,
backache, painful urination, lost vitality due
to uric-acid disorders, genito-urinary and
bladder troubles, or for aches and pains
generally. No matter how many things
have failed you, Harrison’s Pills should set
you ■ right, for they remove the cause of the
trouble. One user says: “Never known such
j quick relief. They soothe all the pain away,
! and leave you entirely rejuvenated, Since
taking them I have felt years younger.” If
YOU want to feel and look 10 to 20 years
younger— quickly —get a package of Har-
rison’s Pills from the chemist’s to-day: 27-
Trial Size, 3/- Standard Size, and 5/- Large
Size. If not pleasantly surprised with re-
sults —money hack! Amalgamated Labora-
tories, Kembla Building, Sydney; or any good
Chemist or Storekeeper.
“The Woman’s Mirror"
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d.
It deals v ith every subject of
interest to women.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISDANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Sociel Life!
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Lady Hore-Ruthven, accompanied by Mrs.
J- H. Verney, attended Jascha Spivakov-
sky's concert at the Town Hall. Lieut-
Commander and Mrs. Loudon-Sliand were
also in the audience, and pretty Mrs. H. 11.
Dutton, who has just returned after a trip
to England. Jascha’s mother-in-law, Mrs.
Krantz, has worn wonderful evening cloaks
♦ hat have charmed the feminine eye at the
concerts.
Mayoress Bonython invited a number of
women to the Town Hall to discuss the
financial future of the South Australian
Orchestra, art being with us as de-
pendent on charity as the kindergartens
or the ornhans’ home. Afternoon tea and
friendly chat preceded a weighing of the pros
and cons. An executive committee was
formed with Mrs. Bonython as president.
A farewell luncheon party to Mrs. Rupert
Haynes, who leaves shortly for Canada with
her husband and family, was given by Mrs.
Reginald at her residence, Kensington Gar-
dens. It was on cafeteriai lines, and the
novelty was appreciated. Lovely pink roses
were the table decoration, and the hostess
was frocked in white georgette beaded in
almond-green motifs.
Ellie Rutherford was the guest of honor
at a linen tea given her by Betty Bonython
at St. Corantyn on a recent afternoon.
Scarlet jersey lilies and autumn foliage were
a feature of the decorations, and a com-
petition organised by Mrs. Lavington Bony-
thon added to the fun.
The Brookman lady returned from Eng-
land in the Narkunda after a lengthy visit
to her daughter, Mrs. Jennings.
Three society weddings are listed for the
near future. Ellie, daughter of the R. J.
Rutherfords, and Clive, young son of the
Allan McFarlanes, of Wellington Lodge,
Alexandrina, will wed to-day, and the 30th
will see the marriage of Dorothy Wil-
liams and John Brinsden Lathlcan. On May
4 Dr. Allan Dunstan Lamphee is to marry
Inez, daughter of the Hedley Robins.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
The first big social function of the sea-
son was the Polo Club’s dance in the Y.A.L.
Hall. Frocks with the newest accessories
were on every feminine dancer, and close
shingles looked positively old-fashioned. V.-r.
patronage, the presence of the visiting play-
ers and their wives, a good band and a tip-
top supper contributed to the evening's
success. Mrs. Nelson Pearse, wife of the
club’s president, wore salmon georgette.
On her ladies’ committee were Mrs. Sam
Grimwood, in black georgette and lace;
Mrs. Stewart, Mrs. Gordon Gooch, Mrs.
Darcy and Mrs. Langlois Lefroy. Lady
Campion, in lilac chenille faconne, and Mrs.
Kerr-Pearse, in black, occupied the v.-r.
cubbyhole. Mrs. Jack Beaton chose wine-
toned lace; Mrs. Dobson, steel beads on silver-
grey ; Mrs. Ferguson-Stewart, sea-green
georgette and a glitter of silver. Among the
smartest gowns were Mrs. Geoff Lynn’s
black georgette and Mrs. Norman Brearley’s
almond-green satin, with its flares and silver-
embossing about the waistline. Mrs. Ernest
Chenery had folds and flares of mignonette-
green sewn to a corsage of lace. Silver
sequins shimmered upon Mrs. Garner’s pale
green georgette, and quaint old-world frills
fluttered round the ankles of Mrs. Charles
Merry’s white ninon.
This is Mrs. McGillvray, who has just
deserted Australia for a six months’ collect-
ing tour in Europe. She intends to wrest
spoil from the
curiosity shops
in France,
Germany,
Norway,
Sweden and
Belgium; and
a friend with
linguistic
■qualificati o n s
will accom-
pany her to
Spain and Por-
tug a 1. Mrs.
McGil 1 v r a y,
who has been
twice round
the world on
similar ven-
t u r e s, has
been collecting
since her
school days,
when some
antique jewellery and woodwork were given
her. China and pewter are her favorites.
She is a Victorian by birth, but has watched
Perth’s expansion for the last 20 years.
During eight days of polo fine weather
blessed all but the last afternoon. Teams
from Adelaide and Clare competed and proved
far too good for our players. There were
many spectators every day, and a record
crowd—for polo—lined both sides of the
new ground for the Centenary Cup. Presi-
dent of the association Joe Charles made
a speech, and his mother, in a black fur-
collared coat, presented the Charles Cup.
Mrs. Nelson Pearse, in navy and fawn pat-
terned foulard, handed over her husband’s
Centenary trophy to G. Law-Smith, captain
of the Adelaide team. Among the onlookers
were Mr. Gordon Gooch, whose handsome
trophy was much admired; Mrs. Noonan
and her daughter Clare, members of the
Grant and Clarkson clans, Miss Murray,
Mrs. Charlie Lamb, Miss Hardie and Mr.
and Mrs. Elton Wilson.
St. Matthew’s, Guildford, was chosen by
May Padbury and Keith Mclntyre for their
exchange of vows. The bride’s swirl of ivory
chiffon was fashioned with a silver embroid-
ered corsage, long, closely-fitting sleeves and
a neck scarf. Her veil of Brussels lace
floated over a diaphanous chiffon train. A
sunset-pink color scheme with a bouffant
skirt hemmed in tulle, and matching hat and
shoes, was chosen by attendant sister Marion.
Two white rosebuds were bride’s nieces Ruth
and Helen Olden, in fluffy chiffon. Small
nephew Bill Padbury was a white-satin and
lace-ruffled page. Garden Hill, Guildford,
saw the feasting.
With the Southern Cross lost and found
in the Kimberleys there has been much taffi
of Port George IV. Mission and Avon Valley
station. Mrs. H. Reid, who was married five
months ago to the manager of Avon Valley,
was a Perth girl who did not set eyes on her
husband till her wedding day in Broome.
She got in touch with Mr. Reid through the
mission scheme of obtaining correspondents
for lonely men out back. An engagement
came about through letters, which was the
more remarkable in that there is a mail only
once a month. Mrs. Reid loves her new life,
though her home is surrounded by the hunt-
ing-grounds of crocodiles and none-too-
friendly natives. It. is hot all the year round,
and the only method of reaching civilisation
is a two-days’ trip on a lugger.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The flood disasters have disturbed our
chunky and robust little island to an extent
that puts frivols out of the question for the
moment. In the words of the typist's manual,
now is the time when all good men (and
women) must come to the aid of the (sub-
merged) party. We know the worst now,
and the job to hand is to make the worst as
light as sympathy and co-operation can
do it.
Herewith a
It e in b randt
portrait of
Gwen Bar-
ringer, whose
still-life paint-
ing, “China,”
has taken the
place of her
“C o s to m s
House, 110
hart,” in the
Gallery. With
he r husband
she took her
first trip to
Europe a
eo up 1 c of
years ago, do-
ing much of
he r English
sight - seeing
per cycle, and
she has had
successful ex-
hibitions here and in Melbourne since her
return. The Sydney Gallery has one of her
flower studies, “Poppies.”
Sister D. McKendrick, who has resigned
her position as matron of the Sanatorium
for Consumptives, was given a dressing-table
set of enamel and gold, a travelling clock
and a travelling rug. Knight John Evans
made the presentation.
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Lady Goodwin visited the W. It. Black
Home at Chelmer, where the Cowley lady
welcomed her and afternoon-tea was served
amid bowls of roses and gerberas. After-
wards her Ex. inspected the institution.
Sir John and Lady Goodwin went to the
mystery play “The Wrecker” at His
Majesty’s. The new theatre has packed good
audiences into its highly-ornamental interior
ever since the opening night, and the next
thing there will be the talkies. Their Exes,
had Jeanette Sheldon, Jessie Traill, Joseph-
ine Wilson and Clayton Greene, of the
Wrecker co„ to lunch.
Mr. and Mrs. Andrew Muecke have issued
invitations for the wedding of their daughter
Nancy to Neville Manning, of Sydney.
Christchurch, North Adelaide, will house the
ceremony.
Sherwood Boy Scouts had a fancy-dress
party in the Scouts’ Hall, Graceville. Gaily-
colored streamers, balloons, butterflies and
flowers were the deckings. The F. Stimp-
sons and J. Watts did the judging. Little
Eric Mahony won the originality prize for
boys under seven, and Audrey Gardiner was
successful in the tiny-girls’ section.
A bridge club has been started to help
the crfeche and kindergarten funds, and meets
every Wednesday at the Carlton.
The Synagogue was decorated with the
initials of the bride and ’groom outlined in
red flowers at the foot of the ark for the
wedding of Joseph Solomon Goldstine, only
son of Mrs. H. Emmott, Sydney, to Sara,
only daughter of . Mr. and Mrs. J. Isaacs
of Brisbane. The bride was in ivory French
mariette, the ankle-length petal skirt stud-
ded in diamente. The train of brocaded
satin and handkerchief of hand-made lace
had been used by her mother at her mar-
riage. Old Brussels lace caught with orange-
blossom was the veil, and the bride carried
a cluster of orchids. Mrs. Mark Isaacs
was matron of honor in blue taffetas. Her
bouquet, shaped like a true-lover’s knot, was
made of pink roses, water-lilies and leaves.
Miss B. Defries, Sheba Goldman and Honor
Levine ’maided in eighteenth-century frocks
of shaded sunset taffetas with poke-bonnets.
There was a reception in the palm-court
and ballroom at Lennon’s.
The Rotarians gave a luncheon at the
Carlton and had some women as their
guests this time—Miss Griffin, gen. sec. for
the Y.W.C.A.; Mrs. W. 11. Barnes, the Bris-
bane president; Dr. Fannie Reading, Mrs.
Reading and Mrs. Nathan Levine. Miss
Griffin addressed the meeting and asked
the Rotarians to help the Y.W.C.A., which
has commenced a £5OOO collection, launched
by Archbishop Sharp and the Mayor.
Mrs. William Collins and .her son and
daughter returned in the Orama after a long
stay in the Cold Country.
Nellie Bramley had the “Standing Room
Only” sign out for “Relations” at the Royal.
Next month she will have been a year in the
theatre, doing good business since the start.
Recently a Nellie Bramley League was
formed, a social affair with a blue and gold
badge.


MARTELLS
BRANDY
A Household Word "
in Sichness&in health
prem
2 i i
* AH3IA
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere .
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
The magistrate smiled. “What have you
to say to that?” he asked Mr. Pinch.
“The matter is in your hands, your Wor-
ship. I would suggest—ar—with great respect
—with very great respect—that the Court
should have something more than a mere
promise that this young man will marry
my client’s daughter; in short, that he
should—ar—be sworn before bail is granted.”
“Take the Bible in your right hand,” said
the magistrate to Gerald.
Gerald did so, and made the declaration.
“Do I understand you are single, and will
marry this young woman if I grant bail?”
the magistrate asked.
He gave a searching look at Gerald,
summing him up as a fast young man who
had already compromised an innocent young
woman. Apparently he was willing enough to
marry the girl, but he might change his
mind. The fact that her father had, as
the deplorable Mr. Pinch said, issued a
warrant for her arrest appeared to point
to an attempt to save the character of a
daughter. As she was of age, she was, of
course, a free agent, and if she liked to
make a .fool of herself with this man there
was no legal power to stop her. Yet it
would be a great pity, and contrary to
public morals, not to force on a marriage
if it could be done by a little ruse. In
the event of the man behaving badly and
not marrying the girl, then the irate father
might perhaps, with Mr. Pinch’s aid, pro-
secute the fellow for perjury. At any rate,
the bluff was worth while. His little
plot—the magistrate smiled to himself—
had the sterling merit of being beneficial
to all parties.
Gerald felt he was caught. He was far
from clear in his mind when he persuaded
Marie to elope with him whether he in-
tended to marry her or not. Events had
taken a turn he did not bargain for. If he
refused to marry Marie he branded him-
self a cad who had taken a girl from Syd-
ney to ruin her, and Mr. Pinch’s remarks
would be justified. Gerald’s sporting in-
stinct asserted itself.
“Yes, certainly I will marry the lady,”
he affirmed. “That’s why we arc here, sir
—I mean in Melbourne.”
“Are you agreeable to marry this man?”
he asked Marie.
“Yes, we were to be married to-day when”
said Marie.
“Never mind the arrest. It’s a little
adventure that adds spice to the romance,
and, after all, the hardship is more imagi-
nary than real. You have not been
locked up or suffered anything unpleasant?”
Marie and Gerald laughed, and Mr.
Pounce sniggered; even Mr. Pinch allowed
the beginnings of an enigmatical smile to
play about his lips. Mr. Pinch had not
selected the shady side of the street all
his life without learning something of how
to ambush an opponent and remain him-
self in shadow.
To the magistrate it appeared that he
was administering justice and serving all
parties; to Mr. Pounce,, that his client was
making the best possible retreat, under the
pretence of making an advance, that could
be contrived. To Mr. Pinch, everything
was very satisfactory, though it did not
suit him to say so.
# *
When Carducci returned to his wife after
taking out a warrant for his daughter’s
arrest, Mrs. Carducci told him the story of
Gerald’s inheritance. The information
caused Carducci to indulge in some hard
thinking that ended in his sending a long
telegram to Mr. Pinch. In this message he
instructed his lawyer to make a search in
the Probate Office and ascertain what it was,
if anything, that Gerald Deacon had in-
herited under a will proved in England.
In the event of his finding that the legacy
was substantial, he was to oppose any
application for bail unless Deacon gave an
undertaking to marry the girl.
Mr. Pinch, better versed in law than his
client, failed to see, unless there was Vic-
torian property, how he was going to dis-
cover anything about the legacy. He
directed his search to the name of Deacon
and found that the English will had been
re-sealed in the Victorian court to enable
some local bank shares, part of the residue
of the estate, to be dealt with. A perusal
of the copy of the will filed in the Probate
Office revealed the bequest of “five thousand
pounds to Gerald Deacon, of Mildura, Uni-
versity student.”
The time consumed in that search was
responsible for Mr- Pinch making a belated
appearance before the magistrate. As events
in the room happened exactly as Mr. Pinch
designed, under Carducci’s instructions, he
was content to sit back and leave the im-
pression that he was entirely in the hands
of the magistrate. Mr. Pinch believed that
he had done very well. The enigmatical
smile was the most he could allow him-
self in the presence of the parties. Later
he would enjoy some genuine laughter with
Mr. Carducci when that gentleman arrived
in Melbourne.
The police sergeant had stood by looking
at the comedy—or was it a tragedy ?
being played out in the magistrate’s room
without opening his lips to speak.
' “Have the police any objection to bail?”
asked the magistrate, following precedent.
The sergeant replied that he knew of
none. It was a private prosecution. As
the parties were going to be married that
day, he would offer no opposition to light
bail.
The magistrate thereupon granted the
accused bail on entering into a bond of £lO.
Later, he said, he might see them, but per-
haps not. He hoped not. No doubt the
lady’s father would withdraw the charge
when he ascertained they were married.
Mr. Pinch rose from his chair and tried
to look like the best man proposing the
health of the bride. “If,” he said, “you
will permit me, since—ar —this little mis-
understanding has ended so happily for the
parties most nearly concerned, I will, with
your permission, and after your expression
of opinion, and with the sergeant’s concur-
rence, withdraw the charge on two condi-
tions.”
“And what are they?” asked the magi-
strate. He was well aware of Mr. Pinch’s
reputation for sharp dealing.
“Well, your Worship, when—ar —this
young lady in her hurry borrowed her
father’s portmanteau, she carried away the
papers and the cameo brooch mentioned in
the warrant, so I am instructed. I ask
that these papers and the brooch be re-
turned to me, on behalf of my client.”
The sergeant was directed to see if the
papers and the brooch were in the pocket
of the portmanteau.
He found a large linen-lined paper
envelope which he handed to the magistrate.
The magistrate took the papers and the
brooch out of the envelope and examined
them.
“I find,” he said, “a lease of a shop in
the name of Donzetti, some newspaper
cuttings and a death certificate, issued in
Paris, of Lisette Delas Felspar. I find
also a cameo brooch. Does the brooch be-
long to this lady?”
“No. your Worship. It belonged to my
client’s—ar —grandmother, and is valued by
him as a very precious heirloom,” ex-
plained Mr. Pinch.
“Is that so?” the magistrate asked of
Marie.
“It is the first time I’ve heard the story,”
she replied.
“Is it yours, then?” he asked, bent on
refusing the application for the brooch.
“No!”
“Is there any reason, Mr. Pounce, why
these things claimed by Mr. Pinch, on
behalf of his client, should not be returned?”
Mr. Pounce had a low-voiced consultation
with Gerald and Marie; then he said, “We
have no objection.”
The papers and the brooch were given
to Mr. Pinch, who said, in a very frayed
nisi prius manner he had picked up and
pickled for use on such occasions:
“Your Worship, I am sure, if my client
knew of the exact state of affairs at the
present moment, he would instruct me to
take the course I am about to —ar —pursue,
if his—ar —expenses and—ar—my costs —
professional costs —are paid.”
“How much do you claim?”.
“Five guineas!”
“Five fiddlesticks! Costs one guinea,
with an order to return papers and the
brooch, and the return of the portmanteau
itself within twenty-four hours.”
“As you—ar—please, your Worship.”
“Wait,” said the magistrate, and, turn-
ing to the sergeant, asked if the police had
any objection to offer to that course being
followed.
The sergeant said, the police had no objec-
tions; but the country had been put to
some expense and the city poor-box could
do with a trifle.
Gerald pulled out a roll of notes, stripped
off five pounds, and handed them to the
sergeant.
The warrant was cancelled.
Mr. Pinch bowed to the magistrate, to
Marie and to Gerald. He ignored Mr.
Pounce, collected a guinea from Gerald
and left the room. Then he went back to
his office, a musty office full of dusty papers
tied with red tape.
When he unlocked the door he chuckled,
as he had chuckled all the way from the
magistrate’s room. He sat back in his
office chair, on its broken seat filled up wnth
a dirty cushion, and chuckled again as he
poured himself out a glass of port. Alter
drinking two more glasses of port he felt
able to draft a telegram to Carducci that
consisted of two letters —“O.K. ’ Next
he wrote a letter to the Italian, and after-
wards closed his office, lodged his telegram
and posted his letter in time to catch the
Melbourne express to Sydney.
Carducci’s plans and Mr. Pinch’s adroit-
ness had succeeded in so far as they had
trapped Gerald into marrying Marie. She
was unconsciotis that she was a pawn in the
game her father, assisted by Mr. Pinch, w r as
playing.
In the afternoon they were married. She
never doubted from first to last that it was
Gerald’s intention to do exactly as he had
done, nor did she know how much she was
indebted for her marriage to the force of
circumstances set in motion by her father
when he issued a warrant for her arrest.
Chapter XIV.
Carducci did not mind being called a
fool-man who played on a fiddle to con-
jure the spirit of Punchinello. Among
honest men a rogue had need of some dis-
guise. He was not a rich rogue, but since
the robbery in the flat of the Baroness Bel-
larosa he had been doing his best to leave
poverty behind him. To some extent he
had been successful. His position had vastly
improved since he was Saccaco, the image
vendor, standing outside Notre Dame Cath-
edral.
Then, when he was almost well content,
personal and financial troubles must come
upon him. The greatest of these, and the
cause of his financial worries, was the exist-
ence of Francois Neigre, whom he had now
to carry on his back. Neigre was the one
man about whom he could not speak with-
out giving himself away to his confiden-
tial friend and legal adviser, Mr. Pinch.
He had his pride, like other men, and if
he could appear, even in the eyes of Mr.
Pinch, less black than Neigre painted him,
the Italian desired to do so. Carducci did
not trust Mr. Pinch altogether. So much
of the wild animal was in the Italian that
some of the methods that wild animals use
for self-protection came natural to him. He
trusted no one when he was in danger, con-
fident that he could, by his own cunning,
escape. Probably his relations with Mr.
Pinch were more profitable to the client
than to the lawyer.
Carducci felt that he had more to lose
than Neigre if the police laid them both
by the heels. “La Savate” was strong and
hardened to lie Nou. Free or a prisoner,
he was not fearful of anything. He
took life as it came, and shrugged
his shoulders. Not so Carducci. He was
fat, soft, sweaty and superstitious. The
tropics, with malaria, blackwater fever,
prison fare, pile-driving, road-making and
mining, were not the place for him; no place,
indeed, for any gentleman of fortune who
had been so unlucky as to have' offended
the police authorities of La Belle France.
Jeannette, his wife, had repeatedly told
him for twenty years or more that he was
a rash and obstinate fool. Neigre had told
him, too, that he was a fool who rushed
like a mad bull at a red rag, blind to the
staked pit waiting for him. It was so. Once
an idea possessed Carducci, he pressed for-
ward to his objective, not stopping to con-
sider any of the possible dangerous con-
sequences to himself. Thus when he slyly
removed the cameo brooch from off the
mantelpiece in the presence of Lisette and
Neigre, he did not pause to consider the
chances they had of associating him with
the theft.
The brooch was missed on the following
morning, and Neigre told Lisette that no
one but Carducci could have taken it.
Lisette appealed to her patron saint, St.
Anthony, w r ho, she believed, subsequently
indicated the Italian as the culprit. Yet
Carducci did not dare to leave Sydney
without informing Neigre that he was
going, or before he had made provision for
the payment of the five pounds a week
that Neigre claimed as compensation for
the loss of his share in the Baroness’s
jewels.
The two men met late at night in the
eating-house. Carducci told Neigre that
he purposed going to Melbourne, in con-
nection with the marriage of his daughter.
(Continued on page 4?-)
Magic Mountains
Straight from the sea the mountains
soared, by spells of might up-
drawn,
Escarpments fronting the surf-ringed
beach and screening the coming
dawn;
Stark, immovable, massive, ponderous
—actual, here ’tis vowed;
Carved of eternal basalt, belike — 1
surely not carved from cloud.
The cliffside beckoned, the gazer ran
till he came to the rocky shore,
Lured ere dawn by the well-loved
peaks of mountains known of yore,
Diverse one from the other but each
with its contour sharp and clear.
A friend that spoke of the vanished
friends of many a bygone year.
Touching the heart like music sweet
of old forgotten songs,
Remembered mountains the gazer saw,
beyond the Dandenongs;
Yet missed in the range one Austral
height that he had fain descried
Where beauty walked in the Long Ago
and love kept step beside.
)2c $ H* ♦
Yonder is Carran Tual’s peak with
the slumbering lakes below.
You can almost hear the echoing notes
where the horns of elfland bloro.
Killarney calls. Far, far away from
the monarch’s towering crest
Mark well that gracious outline. ’Tis
the curve of Slieve Bloom’s breast,
That long steep slope with ragged edge
is Bkiddaw, dreaming awhile
Of his beacon-fire that roused long
since the burghers of Carlisle.
N.s.w.
And rising from Loch Katrine's waves
where wandered Roderick Dhu,
Behold again the purple folds of
mighty Benvenuc.
Pilatus, torn from his solid base in
Bernese Ober.land,
Without his white cap telling of rain,
transplanted, here takes stand;
And non: the gazer sees again, as once
in life's glad, morn,
The upward thrust of the deadly spear
of the menacing Matterhorn .
There is the Peak of Darien, and next
to it Mont Pelde,
And some of the Twelve Apostles as
your eyes turn towards Hout
Bay.
And Tenerife Peak, in boyhood seen
from a clipper at morning prime,
And in snow-clad heights of Kicking-
horse Pass, where the Rockies
tower sublime.
!j! * * #
But still the gazer’s heart was sore;
all peaks of the world were naugh t
Compared with the Austral mountain
fair that nightly in dreams he
sought.
Had it vanished away with the Past
itself, its love and its joyous songs,
Across the Great Divide of Time-
beyond the Dandenongs?
Out of the darkness a line of light
dawn’s rosy fingers drew,
Tracing in fire on the rim of a cloud
the shape that the gazer knew;
Bringing a gleam of youth and joy
unt'h the mountain at last descried,
Where beauty walked in the Long Ago
and. love kept step beside.
JOHN SANDES.


m
m
m
hi
in
M.
w/f.
m
%
%
%
m
%
I
v, '/.
V. .2
Was.
m
kx\
fIW
distinction of the MILLS Hat
will win your approval on sight.
The name MILLS rises supreme
in the realm of fashion. It is a
guarantee of quality, of perfect style, ex-
quisite craftsmanship, and, above all, of
durability. Through all weathers, in every
season, the MILLS retains its shape and
smartness.
at that suits ijourlersona lity
Obtainable at all the
leading Men’s Stores
Ml
A PRODUCT OF UNITED FELT HATS PTY. LTD


Model 827 Five'Passenger Sedan
Abreast of
Or.
fifiAAAM
PAlfit
AN INVITATION—In territories where
Craham-Paige motor cars are not now ade-
quately represented there is an opportunity
for responsible business men, who are in-
terested in the exceptional possibilities this
new line offers, to obtain the franchisee
the Times
The public and the automobile trade
are cordially invited to inspect the com-
plete line of Graham-Paige sixes and
eights—with refinements and improve-
ments, and the time-proved four-speed
transmission (two high speeds —standard
gear shift)—which represent our earnest
endeavor to keep abreast of the times and
to make our product constantly better.
CurnS
<vmS
DISTRIBUTORS OF GRAHAM-PAIGE CARS
QUEENSLAND:
Moxon Motors, Ltd.,
Brisbane.
VICTORIA:
Walter Whitbourn Pty., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Arthur Bales, Ltd.,
Perth.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
W. H. Lober & Co., Ltd.,
Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Maughan Thiem Motor Co., Ltd.,
Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND:
Wright, Stephenson & Co., Ltd.,
Wellington.
&AAMAM-PAIEE
PERCY MARKS,
JEWELLER AND LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emcra:ds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
“THE AGE”
Established 185Jf.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
You do not leave it to chance in choosing a
newspaper for your advertising campaigns. You
require evidence of its stability and inquire
fully into its claims for preference before
entrusting it with your sales message.
No discriminate buyer of newspaper space can
afford to overlook
“THE AGE”
when contemplating future allocations for
Victoria.
Make your first preference “THE AGE,” and
you will be convinced that in choosing this
medium to broadcast your sales message
throughout the State your choice has been
fully justified.
“The Age” CIRCULATES in the
homes and offices of 123,533 sub-
scribers daily, and publishes over ONE
MILLION Advertisements annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
X
You can Wipe the Mort-
gage Off your House.
Possess Insurance, and effect a
saving in co6t. Particulars of this
sound business investment from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONN KM, STREET, SYDNEY.
(tf GUYATTS.
BROOKS
APPLIANCE
FOR RUPTURE
ẃ
THE greatest dis-
covery and invent-
ion of the century—
Brooks appliance affords
ample comfort: is light,
cool, comfortable and
clean. Wearer is able
to work, play and rest
without trouble or inconvenience.
GUY ATT & CO. Dept. R.
257 a George .Street, Sydney.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/-per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. , Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
FOR ALL SPORT
BUY
THE SPORTING GLOBE
The L . eac,in £ Australian Authority with the largest
staff of Sporting Experts arid Special Representatives
m all States. The staff includes:—
New
“MUSKET”
“RAIL”
W. S. SHAKLAND
PAT O’HARA WOOD
J. J. MAHER
J. M. DILLON
A. L. DOBBIE
TOM MORLEY
MAURIE COLLINS
H. C. BROOKE
South Wales edition
The Turf
. Cricket
Football
. Tennis
. Cycling
... Golf
. Rowing
Coursing
.. Bowls
Yachting
available—
every Thursday, price 3d.
Missing Friends.
R
GRAHAM, Deceased.—
nhnni-s 1 e any perso , n knowing the where-
rPAHAM t my l' elat i ve ™ of PATRICK
CxRAHAM, formerly of Tunnack, in Tas-
mania, who died at the New Town Infirmary
Hobart, on 13th November, 1916. communi-
cate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Hobart?
Wanted.
W/’ANTED, position on a station in Queens-
land or N. S. Wales, by a young man
well educated. Good references. Apply
JOHN MALONEY,
Cowwarr,
Gippsland.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE '.. .. 3d .
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
atioi\
Dog food
Supreme
f
sr
A perfectly balanced meat ration;
keeps dogs of all kinds in
the pink of condition.
FREE—Sample Tin sent to any address
in the Commonwealth on request.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from
W. C. SCHWAB
P. O. Box 1821, Melbourne
Ken-T -Ration
3VU * 5 H
%
o
Uj
r <•
Q
%
V
<sr
sT
SMALL V o^
Invincible Murine Motors are made in 10
popular models. “An Engine for Every Type
of Boat.”
Write for Catalogues.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS, LTD.,
53 North George Street, Sydney.
«i
Actual
Size
The discernment that can ap-
preciate perfection finds perfect
gratification in every cigar
banded with the full name—
u,
LA CORONA
HALF-A- C ORONA
S 3
In Days of Old
White hair was
all the vogue.
In modern days
grey or whits
hair is consid-
ered a sign of
appr o a c h i n g
age.
It is NOT "THE
THING.”
All traces of Grey can readily be removed
by an application of
Dr. Allen’s (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
Sold at all Chemist* and Stores.
Harmless, easy
to apply, can-
not be detected
Australian Agents:
DUERDIN AND
SAINSBURY, LTD
Bond Street,
Melbourne.
ẅ


1
-
In Ladies Hands
HERE is magic in the
'featherlike lightness of
a Shelley teacup. English
Bone China, made nowhere
but in a few square miles
in Staffordshire, arjd the
Shelley workers’ 75 years
of continuously inherited
craftsmanship arc the secret
of this fairy loveliness. The
name of Shelley under every
piece guarantees genuineness
Ask to see the latest
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
• China
Nursery Ware
b/ Lucie Attweu
s-Hilda Cowham
Domestic Ware
Jelly Moulds
OBTAINING
I CASK OP ANY
13J.CI.ARENCE AT.
m
w
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
HII
BRITISH
MADE
Perfection
RUSK RUBBER
“ Suburban ”
Afforestation
Every person who has read or has been told
about afforestation —whether he has invested
or not —should send for particulars now of
A.N.Z.I.L.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND
THRIFT BONDS.
a D-ilt prWrl investment and an entirely new conception of afforestation offering
IMMEDIATE, and FUTURE RETURNS, with the soundest principles of
scientific and properly-conducted planting for profit yet olfeied.
Afforestation and Flax—Plus Interest and Insurance.
Investigate I—To do so is to INVESI.
AUSTRALIAN & NEW ZEALAND INVESTMENTS, LTD.,
17 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Your Car for Leave in England ’
get it from Pass and Joyce, because they offer these definite
advantages:
(1) Widest selection of leading makes.
(2) Most reasonable Deferred Terms, and
(3) A Guaranteed Re-purchase Price.
(4) Expert Service, relieving you of all detail.
Bear in mind the convenience of a car for your holiday and the
saving in travelling expenses. You will definitely have every
reason to be delighted with the car you obtain under the attractne
Pass and Joyce Re-purchase Scheme. Detailed brochure free or.
application to Manager, The Bulletin, 214 George Street North,
Sydney.
Get it
from
RffSS^JOYCE
London’s Leading
Automobile Agents.
373-375 Euston Road,
London, N.W. 1, England.
A WONDERFUL INCLUSIVE TOUR
Battlefields and War Graves of
GALLIPOLI, FRANCE
and BRITAIN
Leaving Sydney June 4, 1929
S.S. “BARADINE” (13,000 tons)
via Australian Ports, Colombo, Suez Canal, to Port Said, thence fiist-class
steamer to Palestine, Gallipoli, Constantinople, Athens, Naples and Marseilles,
then by rail to Paris, Amiens, Battlefields, Brussels, The Mole to London.
Tour includes visit to England and Scotland
Leave London for Scotland and the English Lakes District by the World-famous
“Flying Scotsman,” of the London and North-Eastern Railway Co., Ltd.
4 to 5 MONTHS’ TOUR, £230
Party Limited. Book Now. Illustrated literature free, on application.
Apply BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, FREMANTLE, etc.
“I don’t believe that is your object.
Where is the death certificate?” demanded
Xeigre threateningly.
“Ah, Francois, the death certificate, on
my soul, was sent back to its owner, Mis-
tere Felspar. No longer did I wish to
touch that business. Too well the danger
I see.”
Xeigre was doubtful, but he could
scarcely persuade himself that Carducci
would risk his own liberty, which depended
on Xeigre retaining his. He swore with many
oaths that if his companion was not telling
the truth he would either kill him or make
a galley-slave of him at lie Non. Then,
suddenly, he asked for the cameo brooch.
He told Carducci that it was useless for
him to deny that he had taken it. Lisette
had consulted St. Anthony, who had told
her, in a dream, that a “great black beast”
was running off with the fauns. As for
himself, he needed no saint to tell him
that Antonio Saccaeo was the thief.
Carducci, with an oily smile, admitted
that he had borrowed the brooch, and in his
hurry, when leaving their room, had omitted
to tell them so. His daughter had admired
the carvings of the fauns, and she had taken
the brooch to Melbourne to see if she could
find one like it. The Italian promised
Xeigre that when he went to Melbourne
he would see that it was returned at once
to Lisette;
Xeigre accepted that statement, not be-
cause he thought it was true, but because
he did not desire to have a quarrel with
Carducci over a trifle. A wise dog did not
snarl at the man who was feeding him; even
now Carducci had promised that Donzetti
should excel himself in cooking a farewell
meal worthy of his friend’s palate. A dis-
pute over the brooch would be poor sauce
for such a feast.
Anyway, Neigrc was not particularly' in-
terested in the brooch, and he did not sense
that Carducci designed to make use of it.
He only manifested keen concern when the
danger zone, represented by the death cer-
tificate, was approached. The brooch was
a woman’s bauble; the gold cross worn by
Saccaco on the chain about his neck was
more important in every way. Saccaco was
a fool, or he might have guessed easily why
he, Neigrc, returned the cross to him at
their first meeting after his, Neigre’s, escape
from lie Nou
Even as Neigre’s thoughts returned to
that night he was looking at the fine gold
chain about the full-fleshed neck of the
Italian while Carducci filled up their glasses
with wine. They spent quite a social even-
ing together. Donzetti had, at the special
request of Carducci, prepared a large dish
of Neigre’s favorite fowls’ livers. “La Savate”
warmed under the genial conditions; wine,
fowls’ livers, cigarettes, oyster stew, spag-
hetti—what more could an escaped recidi-
viste want? Yes, and as a dessert there
was money to come for his support while
Carducci was away in Melbourne.
When midnight came the Italian, blown
with wine and spaghetti, played his fiddle
and told Neigre that he thanked the saints
for permitting them ‘to once more meet
after all Neigre had gone through.
“Here, Francois, is twenty pounds. Much
money for you. I see you again soon, eh?”
Neigre smiled as he pursed the money.
He put on his cloth cap and lit a cigarette.
He shook hands with Carducci, and said in
a whisper:
“Au revoir, Saccaco! If I have any news
from lie Nou I will send it to you. Do not,
I beg of you, forget ‘La Savate’!”
Neigre nodded to Donzetti and went out
of the shop.
* * * *
When Carducci arrived in Melbourne he
met Gerald, who'greeted him jovially, and
told him that their differences were mis-
takes and were now buried.
But the more Gerald saw of the Italian
the more he mistrusted and loathed him.
Why, he already was asking himself in
bitterness, had he not hearkened to the
advice which Betty had given him? What
would his English relations think of him
if they knew that he had married the
daughter of a rogue? No wonder his old
school fellows and University friends
avoided him. They knew he was hand in
glove with gamblers, bookmakers, jockey
boys and stable men; that he diced in
gambling clubs and plunged in betting. He
did not blame his old friends. He had
made his own bed and hoped he was man
enough to lie on it without whimpering.
Nevertheless, memories of his youth per-
sisted in stalking him. He could hear again
his father’s admonitions to him on the occa-
sion of the Carducci scandal. He had been
fool enough to be trapped into marrying
the girl, after all! His father had paid
twenty-five pounds to her blackmailing
father to have her taken away from Mil-
dura, yet, when his father was beyond
remonstrating with him, he had gone to
Sydney, sought her out and eloped with
her! He remembered the tone of pride in
his father’s voice when he had told him
that the Deacons had never made a mes-
alliance. He recalled, too, his own scoff
at birth and breeding. Now, if he had not
sold himself to the Devil, he had linked
himself with Antonio Carducci, and that
was near enough to it to satisfy anyone.
He would have done better if he had sold
his soul to the Devil, and' given a bill due
at death, instead of paying cash to Carducci
almost every day.
Gerald rented two adjoining flats in East
Melbourne. He lived in one with his wife
and the other was occupied by Carducci
and his wife. He had found the money for
the furnishing of both. So the sun of pros-
perity shone very brightly for the Carduccis,
and Antonio made a gorgeous figure of a
fat beggar riding very hard to the Devil.
The one-time peddler of saints’ images
in Paris underwent a transformation. He
told people who did not know him that
he was related to the best families in
Naples, and his appearance almost supported
his statements if the scions of the best
families in Naples have a weakness for
bizarre dress. He was clothed in rich rai-
ment, and. according to his tastes, fared
sumptuously every day. The odor of garlic
on his large silk handkerchief left the im-
pression that he was still fond of pizza.
On race days he wore a silk hat pulled well
down on his head of black hair, some of
which was crushed out and hung about his
ears. His moustache was waxed and twisted
into spikes. A pair of field glasses slung
over his left shoulder completed this pros-
perous edition of Antonio Carducci, who
was very well satisfied with himself and his
fortunes—when he did not remember Neigre
of lie Non.
His was the lion’s share of the money
that was coaxed and cajoled out of Gerald
by Marie.
By degrees Carducci managed to contrive
to accompany Gerald to every race meeting.
Daily he went out to the training stable
at Caulfield where .Gerald’s Monaro colt,
now named Mildura, had done some great
trials. Closer and closer the two of them
became associated, and deeper and deeper
Gerald sank in his own esteen. Often with
an oath he recalled the old Latin tag
Facilis descensus Averno, the road to ruin
was easy, the descent to Hell swift, and he
was, he knew, well on the way.
Carducci had tried to persuade his wife
Jeannette to share with him his newly-
found greatness, but she would not do so.
She told him that the way they wen-
living was rotten to the core and insisted
that he was a better man when he had to
rise at four o’clock in the morning to attend
the market and buy fruit for the shop.
Notwithstanding his fine clothes and the
great opinion he had of himself in that
empty fool-head, he was still on the road
that ended in gaol. Such talk to Carducci
was as repellent as poison. He was not,
sorry to leave her in charge of the flat and
go to the races with Gerald and Marie.
The turf-loving friends of the Deacons
thought the world went well with them, but
that was far from the fact. Marie had
found by experience the truth of what her
mother had warned her of a man’s passion
burning itself out. It was true, too, of her
own passion for Gerald Deacon. Both of
them were already looking for a way of
escape.
Marie’s passion changed its objective. It
found expression in expensive dresses, in
betting, in a riot of minor extravagances.
Her jewellery was always being mislaid or
lost, and she\vas continually coaxing Gerald
to replace his gifts. Maddened, one day
he told her that he was satisfied her rogue
of a father took the jewels and either
pawned or sold them. He said he had no
more money to spend on such baubles.
Gerald knew that financial ruin was now
not far ahead of him, and that he could
not save himself. He had had a disastrous
run in betting. Another month with the
like bad luck and he would be bankrupt.
With something of his old flippancy he
said to himself—“ And a damned good job,
too! I’ll get rid of the Carduccis then.
They’ll drop off me like scalded leeches.”
(To be continued.)
Star-crossed.
I could not grieve so much if you were dead,
For Love and Memory with me would keep
Gethsemane by that relentless deep
That moaned betwixt me and a glory fled.
But changed and changeless, still of life a
part,
This pallid thing, this ghost of you that
stays
To pluck the wonder from the waning days,
Sucks like a vampire at my heavy heart.
Troy is no more, and Ilium was—a town:
So the pale pageant passes, quick to-day
Slips to the silence that was yesterday,
And Hope’s bright walls like dead leaves
shudder down.
I dare not walk the dear familiar ways
We walked together, when the meanest
sod
Gave song to us and we in tune with God
Sang with His stars in universal praise.
For Love was there to give us convoy sweet,
A shining presence in the wilderness
Of blind pragmatic creeds whose bleak
duress
Melted like mist before His starry feet.
At eventide it shall be light. Ah Friend,
Ah Love, that such sad even should
befall—
For you a rushlight’s flicker on the wall,
A shadow followed to a shadow’s end;
For me the sting of tears that never flow,
The agony of unavailing loss,
The love that cries beneath a Christless
cross
For woe, for dumb unutterable woe.
VICTORIA.
MAGNET.


MICK SIMMONS
For Every
Sports Need !
(X
a
:,v
24*
Post
Paid.
“COURT CRAFT”
TENNIS RACKET.
For the schoolboy or the schoolgirl
player, or even an adult tyro, there
is no better or more suitable racket
to be had anywhere to-day. Per-
fectly true in weight, shape and
balance. Strung with dependable
gut. Supreme value in Tennis
Rackets at 24/-
It’s New!
“ZEPHYR” ALUMINIUM
RACKET PRESS.
Takes only a few seconds to fix. One
central bolt means equal pressure all
round. This bolt cannot do harm to
the gut, as no part of thread passes
through the mesh, only a small
smooth barrel. Post paid . . 8/6
KUM-BAK
The Perfect Tennis Trainer.
Price, 27/6 Complete.
(Without Rackets.)
Carriage Extra.
A Game and Tennis Trainer com-
bined that provides the fastest
method of learning tennis, as well as
training the eye and footwork and
teaching you every fine point of the
game. The Kum-Bak” has caused
a furore amongst tennis players
everywhere.
WINCHESTER FOCUSSING
SPOTLIGHT
ELECTRIC TORCH.
3-Cell Battery, powerful sliding lens that
throws a compact flood of light on the
object. Length, 9in.; diameter, 1 Jin.
Fibre Case 17/6
Nickel Case 18/6
(Postage on any one Torch, 9d.)
MICK SIMMONS Ltd.
Headquarters: 720 Haymarket,
Sydney.
“Australia’s Largest Sports Outfitters.”
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
of
THE CIVIL SERVICE CO-OPERATIVE
SOCIETY OF N.S.W., LTD.
Important Realisation Sale
BY PUBLIC AUCTION OF THE WELL-KNOWN
Civil Service Stores,
IN GEORGE STREET, CITY OF SYDNEY,
Situate OPPOSITE FARMER and COMPANY, LIMITED, BETWEEN
the TWO PRINCIPAL CITY RAILWAY STATIONS, now under
construction, and in the VICINITY of the PRINCIPAL RETAIL
EMPORIUMS.
THE BUILDING is most up to date jn every
particular, beautifully furnished and fitted
throughout, and contains all the modern
requirements necessary for the carrying on
(if a Great Retail Business.
IT COMPRISES the following accommodation:
BASEMENT: Despatch-room, with vehicle lift
to ground floor, turntable, oil stores,
Refrigerating Chamber.
GROUND FLOOR: With elaborate show
windows and island display windows,
grocery and provision store with tiled walls
and floors, showrooms.
FIRST FLOOR: Showrooms.
SECOND FLOOR: Showrooms and office
accommodation.
THIRD FLOOR: Showrooms and office accom-
modation.
FOURTH FLOOR: Reserve stock rooms.
FIFTH FLOOR: Magnificent dining and tea
rooms, kitchen, servery, etc.
SIXTH FLOOR: Reserve stock room.
In the centre of the building, towards the
George Street frontage, are four express
passenger lifts. Two goods lifts and staff lift
are provided.
PLANS OF THE PREMISES ON VIEW.
THE LAND has a frontage of
12Xft. 4in. to George Street;
122 ft. 7in. to York Street,
149 ft. depth on the southern side, and
150 ft. depth on the northern boundary.
THE SITE is one of the most important in
the city. Apart from its suitability as a
great retail store, it would lend itself to
subdivision into shops, showrooms and
offices, 'which would let readily and pro-
duce a handsome income.
On the Completion of the Harbor Bridge,
York Street will be the main avenue for traffic
from the North Shore Line, and must greatly
enhance in value.
The attention of company promoters, trading
concerns, speculators, investors, theatre pro-
prietors and others is specially directed to
the offering of the well-known
CIVIL SERVICE STORES.
After the sale of the property and fixtures
connected therewith, the Stock, Fittings and
Plant will then be offered.
THE TITLE IS FREEHOLD.
TERMS WILL BE ARRANGED.
RICHARDSON & WRENCH, LTD.,
GRAY & CO.,
STANTON & SON, LTD.,
AUCTIONEERS IN CONJUNCTION,
HAVE BEEN FAVORED WITH INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFER BY PUBLIC
AUCTION THE ABOVE, IN THE ROOMS, 92 PITT STREET.
ON FRIDAY. I 7th MAY, AT I I A.M.
SLIMNESS ASSURED THIS WAY
No massage, no electricity, no tedious exercise. Simply add LEICBNER
1001 to your warm bath before retiring. LEICHNER 1001 is harmless; it
does not affect the heart or kidneys. It is effective, because it activates
the cells lying under the fat layers, thus breaking up the unwanted fatty
tissues. The effect is progressive, renewal of the baths at suitable intervals
securing further reduction.
Obtainable from your Chemist; or 4/0
post free from leading city stores.
LEICHNER 1001
Factory Representatives:
LOHMANN & COMPANY, LTD., 26-30 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
If any illustration in “ THE
BULLETIN ” takes your fancy ,
Write to the MANAGER , u)/zo u)r7Z
quote you price for the original.
CITY OF SYDNEY.
A Commanding Comer Site
in a locality with great potentialities,
having the following frontages:
89ft. lin. to CASTLEREAGH STREET.
106 ft. 3in. to MARKET STREET.
140 ft. Bin. depth on the northern side.
The western boundary being irregular.
Plan on view at the Auctioneers’.
TORRENS TITLE.
Upon which at present is erected a building known as
“LINDEN COURT,”
Castlereagh and Market Streets.
Admitted on all sides to be the very FINEST CITY
CORNER at present available for PROFITABLE
DEVELOPMENT
situate
IN THE NEW BLOCK
Between the MAMMOTH EMPORIUMS o| FARMER
and COMPANY, LTD., and DAVID JONES, LTD.
In full view of
THE ST. JAMES
on the NEW LINE
RAILWAY STATION,
OF CITY RAILWAY.
Immediately adjoining on the north side
“HER MAJESTY’S SHOPPING ARCADE,”
Close by ST. JAMES THEATRE,
and the "STATE SHOPPING BLOCK,” at present
in course of construction.
At the present time
IS A BLOCK OF
OFFICES, totally ina
ERECTED UPON THE LAND
SHOPS, SHOWROOMS AND
dequate to the Site, known as
“LINDEN COURT,”
Nos. 100 a, 102, 104, 106, 108, 110, 112
MARKET STREET, and Nos. 106 105 a,
109 a CASTLEREAGH STREET.
and 114
107, 109,
The Building is erected of brick with cantilever
awnings, and comprises on
GROUND FLOOR: Eleven (11) Shops and
In the Courtyard 13 Showrooms, four of which
are used in connection With the Market Street
Shops.
FIRST FLOOR: Twenty-seven (27) Offices and Show-
SECOND* h FLOOR: Twenty-seven (27) Offices and
Showrooms.
And there are also Caretaker’s quarters. There
is an electric passenger lift. Lavatory accom-
modation on each floor.
THE WHOLE ARE FULLY OCCUPIED, AND
PRODUCE THE MODEST RENTAL OF ABOLT
£20,332 PER ANNUM.
The tenancies are all for short periods, so that
vacant possession can be given at an early date of
all the shops but one, arid this can be obtained in
July next.
The rentals at present obtained from these old
buildings afford an accurate index as to what may
reasonably be expected to be obtained from a
modern building erected on the site, to be arranged
in shops, showrooms and offices. The property also
lends itself to the erection of an arcade, which
would afford the means of utilising to profitable
advantage the whole of the land, or this may be
regarded as an admirable site for the erection of
a theatre.
TERMS: ONE-THIRD CASH, BALANCE 3 YEARS
AT 6* PER CENT.
For Sale by Public Auction,
in the ROOMS, 92 PITT STREET,
FRIDAY, 10th May, 1929, at 11 a.m.
Richardson and Wrench, Ltd.,
92 Pitt Street,
Hardie and Gorman Pty., Ltd.,
36 Martin Place,
Gray and Company,
135 Pitt Street,
AUCTIONEERS IN CONJUNCTION.
ALLEN, ALLEN & HEMSLEY,
Wigram House, Castlereagh Street.
A. L. McLACHAN, Esq.,
107 Castlereagh Street,
Solicitors to the Estate.
• * . >
1
v<i
fK
■s:'
.aw
The Old Way
The Martin Way
Saves /00 Shovels
Most useful farm tool in Australia
for ditching, levelling, draining, irri-
gating and reclaiming.
MARTIN DITCHER, £35
Enables bigger crops by better
drainage
J. B. WALLIS, LTD.,
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney
499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
168 Edward Street, Brisbane
T. T. B’ld’g, Light Square, Adelaide-
Royal Arcade, Barrack Street, Perth
B.K.


ẁ
Miss MARIE BURKE,
a beautiful Rexona
Girl, irriteK: “l always
use Rexona Soap, for /
find it so refreshing
after tubing off my
make- up.”
That natural beauty of skin and hair which cannot be imitated can be obtained by regular
use of Rexona Skin and Facial Soap. Ordinary toilet soaps do not assort this influence.
Many of them contain free alkali, which tends to dry the skin, and destroy its delicate
texture. Even the heft of sucli soaps can only cleanse; they cannot heal and protect the skin.
Rexona Soap contains (lie same soothing, healing, antiseptic balsams as Rexona, the Rapid
Healer, the value of which in the
treatment of skin affections is
known throughout the world
Simply use Rexona Skin anc
Facial Soap regularly once or twice
a day, and see if it does not
quickly soothe and cleanse the
pores, le- sen the tendency tc
pimples, and leave the eopiplexior
clear, fresh and velvety.
Soap
gisplPlfil
W///M
BOUTS’.
W,
mm
£**«**’
s*i!2
l! 1
ms
I,- ■
¥
i %
1
• •
' r
'Ti''
.. m
• ll* #
it
rosted the day they are made
Stte Camcrus
Red. Sox oF
GhocolateS
a
CHOC OLATES
ADDR-E SS
ẃ
162-166 Pitt Street
s N E Y~*
P R.I C E S
3/ 5/6. 6/ 10/, 12/6.
20/f AM-CL 30/
'(PATOM)
The Man Who Could Not Die.
K. ENON BCTCHART'S
FINE STORY OF A GREAT MAN AND A
GREATER LOVE.
A BABEL of shouting, a mad scramble
for the beach, while two grey forms
flashed through slowly reddening
water. Such was the setting in which I first
saw John Saunderson, the man who could not
die.
One of the sharks’ victims was still alive,
striving desperately to swim to shore, but
the loss of both legs was proving too severe
a handicap. Instinctively I closed my eyes
as I saw one of the monsters turn towards
the struggling cripple. And then as sud-
denly I looked again. I had fancied I saw
a man dive into the watery shambles from
the pier. Nor was I wrong. A man was
there, kicking and splashing, holding off the
hungry cowards while two of the more ven-
turesome of the swimmers went back, cour-
ageously, and helped the cripple to the shore.
Then, his work done, the rescuer turned and
started to swim leisurely back towards the
pier.
Again I wanted to close my eyes. It was
too much like a nightmare. Why didn’t
he hurry f
The question must have risen to actual
speech, although I was not aware of it; until
the swimmer looked up at me—and grinned!
I have more than once stood on the bridge
of a transport and watched, breathlessly and
impotently, the approach of an enemy tor-
pedo and wondered as the stern fell slowly
from its course whether we could clear the
deadly path in time. But my emotions that
day as I watched the foolhardy swimmer
literally dawdle towards the safety of the
pier were more poignant than any war-time
experience. Out there, in God’s own waters,
white men are few and far between, and life
is more precious. The callousness of whole-
sale carnage is lacking.
“What on earth!” I cried as he climbed
out of the water. “You gave me grey hairs
—where would you have been now if those
devils had gone for you?”
The reaction from anxiety made me forget
his bravery, forget that he was a stranger—
forget, too, the poor devil he had rescued,
and who by now had probably bled to death
on the beach. All that I could think of at
that moment was that racking wait while
he had flirted with mutilation and death.
He shook himself vigorously, and stood
regarding absently the pools of water at his
feet. It was as though he had not heard
my words.
And then suddenly he looked at me and
smiled. In that second all my irritation left
me. The singular transfiguration of his
expression was intensified by the contrasting
memory of the grin of malicious enjoyment
that he had given me from the water. It
was as though the smile had opened the
casement of his soul.
“There was no need to worry,” he assured
me. “I’m the man who cannot die.” His
face for a moment lost its smile, and then
he added suddenly, “You’re Captain Coker,
aren’t you?”
Then for the first time in many years I
broke one of my strictest rules. He obvi-
ously came into the category of beachcomber,
yet I invited him to dinner on the Surf
Queen.
* * # *
My first impression had been correct.
John Saunderson was a gentleman—and an
interesting companion. He talked well and
entertainingly, and it was not until we were
out on deck with our coffee and cigars in
the welcome coolness of the stars that I put
to him the question that had been in my
mind all the evening.
At first he made no answer. Then, when
I was about to apologise, he nodded abruptly.
“It might interest you,” he said a little
harshly. “Tell me if I bore you.”
After he had been talking for a few
minutes I began to regret my curiosity. For
John Saunderson, as he recounted the events
that had brought him to his present state,
was a man laying bare his soul. I was; for
the time being, in the Confessional, playing
the unaccustomed role of priest. And the
sensation was not a pleasant one.
Like most of us, I had always lived on
the surface of things. Emotions, both those
of myself and of other people, I had shunned
as being weak and effeminate; as things to
be avoided wherever possible. Love had
never touched me, and this sudden confronta-
tion with the heights and depths of a man’s
supreme emotion aroused in me alternate
feelings of amazement and embarrassment.
John Saunderson, before the war, had
been one of the popular members of the
younger set. a Cambridge “blue,” an English
rugby “cap”; in short, a young man whose
prospects in every way were of the brightest.
Two months before the war broke out he
had become engaged.
Then the war.
He had gone out with the first contin-
gent—thanks to a commission in the Terri-
torials —and within twelve months had
climbed, and not on dead men’s shoulders,
to the rank of major. He was due to have
returned to England for fourteen days’ fur-
lough in November, 1915, and the wedding
had been arranged to take place the day after
his arrival.
Then had come a blank.
Two days after his leave had been offi-
cially granted he had been in the front line
on a tour of inspection when the Boche
had suddenly broken through with total un-
expectedness. He remembered firing at one of
them, and from then on there was a blank.
In point of time this hiatus of memory
lasted for twenty-three months, during which
time he subsequently learned he was in a
madhouse—one of the many connected with
the enemy internment bases —until finally
he was sent back to England as an
“exchange.”
It was then that his memory came back
to him. The familiar sights and sounds of
Liverpool-street brought the knowledge of
his name and personality back to him with
a rush.
There had followed the anxious first visit
of his parents to the convalescent home, and
it was from his mother that he learned that
Aldeth, believing him dead —his identifica-
tion disc had been picked up in No Man’s
Land —had married six months prior to his
return.
Thereafter John Saunderson had lived but
to die. Life without Aldeth was inconceiv-
able. He was invalided out of the army, and
three months later enlisted under another
name. As a private he would have mor>'
chance of death.
Rut luck was against him. and he was
still in the trenches, unscathed, when the
Armistice was signed.
After the war lie had gradually drifted via
the Gold Coast and half a dozen other pesti-
lence-stricken outposts to God’s own waters;
always seeking death, always missing it by
a hair’s-breadth. And at. least once incom-
prehensibly. That blood-thirsting sharks,
baulked of their prey, should have allowed
him to escape as In 1 had done that 'afternoon
—well, I would not have credited it, not
from the Archangel Gabriel himself, if I had
not seen it with my own eyes.
“And what of Aldeth?” I asked when at
length he sat silent. Then; was something
that made me ask these questions of him
against my will, but again he did not resent
my curiosity.
“That is the worst part of it all,” he told
me soberly. “I saw Aldeth for one after-
noon. It was an accidental meeting, hut we.
prolonged il for three hours. Aldeth still
loves me —or she did then. She told me so
herself. But what good does that do? It
only makes things worse. And she is mar-
ried to a gentleman—one of the best, and
an old friend of mine.” lie laughed harshly.
“So I can’t even wish that he should die.
He is younger than I, and as lit as a fiddle,
so lie’s not likely to, whether I wish it or
not. Damn it!” he added, half-humorously,
wholely-poignnntly, “if only I had been a
blackguard things might have been different.
But, even so. I don’t think I could have per-
suaded Aldeth to leave him. She is a lady—
and loyal.”
He was typical, was John Saunderson, of
the better-class Englishmen. He loved —and
he would love once only. That I was the
only man ever privileged to hear his story
I knew without asking. He was not the type
to blather of his broken heart in the pot-
houses of the world.
if! * * »
Three years passed before I met John
Saunderson again. But I had heard of him
frequently enough. His name had become
a by-word for foolhardy courage. The Man
Who Could Not Die they called him—and
rightly so, if half one heard of him were true.
No man could earn a sobriquet like that
without starting idle and, more often than
not, vicious gossip about himself, and I had
heard a hundred theories as to the reason for
his conduct. Nor did his own reticence about
his past ameliorate the reputation that he
gained. The most popular and prevalent
story was that he was a murderer at large
from justice.
It was not easy to sit quietly by and listen
to these slanderings, but it had to be done.
John Saunderson would not havi thanked me
for broadcasting the truth which he had con-
fided to me. Nor could one deny the rumors
that one listened to. A half-hearted contra-
diction would but hiave lent support to them,
while a vehement one would have freed event-
ually the facts. There was nothing to do
but sit quietly by when the topic arose and
close one’s ears.
The three years, I noticed, had added a
line or two to hi 3 face. We had just tied
up at Lola-Panga when he strolled aboard.
What more natural than that I should ask
him to dine?
It was Fate, of course.
Dinner was timed for the minute I came
off the bridge after tying up, and I did not
think, nor had I the time, to tell him that
we were carrying two passengers that trip
—a man and his wife. And introductions
were unnecessary!
“Hallo, Aldeth!” Saunderson said as we
entered the saloon, and his voice was as
casual as though they had parted yesterday.
It was the very coolness of the man that told
me the shock he had received. There was,
under the ice, the hint of flame, of nerves
stretched taut.
My two passengers were less impassive.
The color had drained suddenly from Mrs.
Mordaunt’s checks, showing them strangely
alabaster-white against the aureole of hair
which, even in the dim light of the lamps,
was gold rather than auburn. Her only
movement was a sudden parting of her lips.
But her husband, his eyes on the newcomer,
missed this significant immobility of his wife,
and started forward with outstretched hand,
obviously delighted to meet the man whom
I knew as John Saunderson.
“Frank!” he cried, gripping the other’s
hand. “What on earth are you doing here?”
He stopped abruptly, but “John Sauuder-
son” smiled. “ and in these clothes?”
he finished for him. “It’s not as bad
as that, Arthur,” he went on, but his
eyes were on the woman. “I’m not broke
or anything. It’s just that one is more com-
fortable dressed this way.”
“But what are you doing here?”
“Just fooling round,” the man whom wo
knew as John Saunderson answered lightly,
and my heart went out to him for the appa-
rent flippancy in his voice. “I got a bit
fed up of post-war England. This is not a
bad life.”
After that dinner went off with less strain
than I had thought to be possible. I do
not think that Mordaunt realised that there
was even a hint of tension in the air.
(Continued on next page.)


r Svery picture
Veils a Story
T <t
%
rA
u
m
Look to Your Kidneys
Stop that Wearying Backache!
MAKE life a pleasure again. That pain in the small of the
back; that urinary disorder; that tired, nervous, old and
worn-out feeling; those headaches and dizzy sensations;
all may be due to kidney weakness, which can be overcome.
Worrying will not help you. Get fit and well by taking Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills. This medicine gives the kidneys the
strengthening help they need, and so prevents rheumatism, sciatica,
lumbago, dropsy, stone in the kidney, or inflammation of
the bladder. Although Doan’s Pills relieve even these serious
symptoms, PREVENTION is by far the wiser plan. An occasional
course of Doan’s will keep you in good health.
CONVINCING PROOF FROM
SYDNEY.
A MAN’S CASE
Mr. A. Bartle, No. 3 Gladstone
Street, Bexley, Sydney, says: “Off and
on for years I suffered with dis-
ordered kidneys, the result being that
I was tortured with backache. When
I had a bad attack my back used to
be so stiff and lame that I could not
even turn in bed without suffering
agony. The kidney secretions were
affected, being thick and cloudy with a
red sediment. I was also subject to
dizzy attacks, and, generally speaking,
felt far from well. One day a friend,
hearing of a cure by Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, urged me to try them.
I bought some without delay and used
them with excellent results. The first
bottle gave relief, and a course of the
Pills made a complete and perfect
cure.”
Twelve years later Mrs. Bartle
says: “Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
cured my husband of backache and
kidney trouble over twelve years ago,
and he has had no return of the com-
plaint since.”
A WOMAN’S CASE
Mrs. S. Drew, 28 Briggs Street,
Camperdown, Sydney, says: “Some
time ago my kidneys were in a seri-
ously disordered state, and in conse-
quence I suffered terribly. My back
never stopped aching, and I was
almost crippled with the ailment.
Dropsical swellings showed on my
legs and ankles, and there was puffi-
ness under my eyes. The state of my
health worried me terribly, and as I
had taken all sorts of remedies with-
out deriving any benefit I was begin-
ning to think I should never be well
again. However, at last I got Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, and they
proved a godsend. The first couple
of bottles cased my suffering a little,
and seven bottles of the Pills cured me
completely.”
Nine years later Mrs. Drew says:
“I have had no return of my old com-
?laint since Doan’s Backache Kidney
ills cured me over nine years ago.”
BE SURE YOU GET DOAN’S, REMEMBER.
Sold by AH Chemists. Foster-McClellan Co., Proprietors,
15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
D OAN'S
Backache Kidney Pills,
SYDNEY MAN CURED OF PILES BY
DOAN’S OINTMENT.
Mr. W. Solomon, Wentworth Street, Parramatta, Sydney, says: “About
20 years ago I had a very severe attack of Itching and Bleeding Piles, and
underwent an operation. I was right for about eight years, and then the
complaint returned. The agony was terrible. Not wanting to undergo
another operation, I started using Pile remedies. The number I used would
astonish you, but they gave me no benefit whatever. I read of Doan’s
Ointment curing others, and decided to give it a trial. After a few applica-
tions I obtained relief and one pot cured me. I always keep Doan’s Ointment
in the house, and shall never be without it, for I know what a thoroughly
good remedy it is.”
Ten years later Mr. Solomon says: “I have still the same good opinion
of Doan’s Ointment. It cured me of the Piles many years ago, and I never
suffer with this complaint now.”
KEEP A TIN ON HAND. IT’S MIGHTY USEFUL WHEN
NEEDED, AND IT’S NEEDED MIGHTY OFTEN.
But I, knowing the story, knowing the
feelings that lay behind the casual w : ords
and careless smiles, knew, too, that John
Saunderson, for one, was near the breaking-
point. And almost before dinner was finished
he begged that he and I might be excused,
pleading urgent business.
Alone with me in my cabin he let himself
go.
“Oh, Christ!” he kept repeating, and it is
not good to lia\ r e to listen to a strong man's
misery. “What can I do? She still loves
me!”
I knew that it was true —tragically true.
Aldeth Mordaunt still loved him as he loved
her.
“I feel as though the years between had
never been,” he told me a little later, when
he Avas getting control of himself. “She is
just the same. It might have been only
yesterday that I last suav her.”
When he was leaving I tried to cheer him
up. “It will all come right,” I said banally,
feeling as awkward as any man does when
he speaks of the emotions. “A love like
yours must Avork out in the end. Mordaunt
might die,” I added jokingly, and caught
my breath at the light that suddenly sprang
to his eyes.
“My God, I’ve thought of that! I’m
tempted.” lie broke off with a harsh laugh
that seemed to choke him. “I’m talking like
an ass! Don’t take any notice of me. I’ll
be all right in the morning. I’ll be gone by
them. I couldn’t stay here! I’ve often won-
dered how I’d feel if ever L should meet
her.” He held out his hand suddenly.
“Good-bye! I do know now. It’s about
an equal mixture of Paradise and Hell!”
The night Avas not cool, but his hand as
it gripped mine was cold.
* * * *
It was not yet five in the morning when
John Saunderson Avas again speaking to me.
I had wakened to find him standing by my
bunk squeezing my hand to rouse me gradu-
ally.
“I couldn’t go!” he whispered. “I had to
see her again. But she mustn’t see me. I
want to stay here in your cabin. I can get
a. glimpse of her then occasionally.”
Of course I consented. I could understand
his desire not to bo seen by her. He was
afraid that she should read his. eyes—and he
did not. want to make it mbre difficult for
her than it had so obviously been the night
before. He asked me when I went down to
breakfast to tell them that he had gone.
“Like a thief in the night!” he added half-
whimsically. “As I could wish to be!”
Arthur Mordaunt Avas obviously dis-
appointed. He had been looking forward, he
said, to a pleasant chat over old times.
Where had he gone?
Making up a lie on the spur of the moment
I stammered out an answer like any fool
of a schoolboy. It satisfied Mordaunt, how-
ever. But not his wife. I found her eyes
fixed on me, and I felt that she was reading
the truth that I had not told.
After breakfast was over she lingered be-
hind. I knew what was coming.
“He has told you?” she whispered eagerly.
“Something tells me that he has.”
When I nodded she drew a breath of relief.
“And he has not gone?” Her eyes were
fixed on mine imploringly. “You were mak-
ing that up about his going?”
Again I nodded. It was impossible to
refuse the truth. She looked like some tiny,
heart-broken little girl as she stood so Avist-
fully before me, a stray glint of sunlight
turning her hair to the richest burnished
gold and making the blue of her eyes by
contrast the deep violet of the gloaming sky.
And her soft lips trembled almost imper-
ceptibly. It was no scheming, assignation-
making passion that was prompting her to
those questions.
“Will you tell him that I wmnt to see
him ?”
“He does not want you to see him,” I
answered gently. “He thinks it would only
make it harder for you. But I will give
him your message—any message you care to
send.”
“To-day?”
“Yes, to-day.”
I tried to smile reassuringly, but it was
not a success, and, again feeling like a lout-
ish schoolboy, I turned towards the com-
panion wondering what could be the solu-
tion of it all.
I had not long to wait.
I was in my cabin with Saunderson just
after eleven o’clock.
"There’s Mordaunt going for a swim,” he
suddenly observed, and following his ges-
ture I could see through the porthole the
figure of Aldeth’s husband striding doAvn the
gangway. In the close-fitting silk he made
a fine figure.
Something prompted me to watch him as
he walked down the jetty.
“Saunderson,” I Avhispered tensely, “he’s
going in off the landing!”
The sudden premonition that came over
me seemed to have found birth at the. same
time in my companion’s mind. He sprang
out of his chair, all trace of languidness
gone.
“The fool!” he. said, and his voice, too,
had sunk to a Avhisper. The air seemed sud-
denly to have grown stifling. “The fool!
We’ve got to stop him!”
There was no need to ask why. There was
not a native who would venture in off the
landing while a ship was tied up at Lola-
Panga. But it was obvious from the care-
free attitude of Mordaunt that he had not
been Avarned —who would have thought that
such a warning was necessary? When
a thing is common knowledge it is
taken for granted that eA 7 erybody, newcomers
as well, must know. And there was Arthur
Mordaunt already poised for and
heading straight for his death. For, as
regularly as the day accompanies the sun,
there w 7 ere, lying in the shadows of the ship,
waiting for the offal thrown overboard, any-
thing from one to a dozen hungry grey mon-
sters.
A half-second earlier and things might
have been different; but Mordaunt had
already sacrificed his balance, and was lean-
ing too far forward to recover, Avhen Saun-
derson’s shout of warning reached his ears.
Again I Avas to watch the man who could
not die risking his life. At other times he
had risked it needlessly, but this time! I
heard myself laugh harshly as I made the
deck.
There was Saunderson, in his turn, poised
on the edge of the landing. Again he was
risking his life; it was too ironical. John
Saunderson was risking his life to save the
very thing that made living such a tragedy
for him! He had but to hold back a second
or two and his problem would have been
solved.
But he was not of that breed.
By the time I reached the landing the
tragedy was moving inevitably to its finale.
Mordaunt was swimming desperately for the
lower stage, and Saunderson, as I had seen
him do before, was fighting off the sharks.
‘‘He’ll be all right,” I kept repeating to
myself as I watched Mordaunt getting
nearer and nearer to safety. But it was not
Mordaunt I was thinking of. “He’ll be all
right—he’ll be all right!”
But he was not.
God knows what it was. Maybe he
thought that he still bore the charm that
had spared his life so many times; maybe
he thought that life was now irrevoc-
ably not worth the living. Whatever the
cause, he turned, as soon as Mordaunt
reached the safety of the lower stage, and
made no effort either to hurry or to deter
the sharks from following him as he swam
leisurely towards the jetty.
They say the pitcher goes once too often
to the well. And John Saunderson that day
defied disaster once too often. We thought
at first that he would make it, that the
sharks were to ignore him.
Aldeth, who had been aroused by the
shouting, was standing by my side, and I
could hear her whispering over and over
again, “You can’t let him die! God, you
can't let him die!” And I thought that her
prayer was to be answered.
But as Saunderson’s hands gripped the
Avood, and Mordaunt, who was still on the
lower staging, was reaching down to help
him out, a grey flash swirled for a moment in
the water underneath him, and then, as his
face suddenly whitened, the water turned to
red, and Mordaunt was hauling from the
crimsoning sea a legless body. It was no
pleasant sight; and for a moment I felt
things go black.
Subconsciously I listened for the sound
of Aldeth falling in a faint beside me, but
by the time the darkness had cleared I saw
that she was already on the lower stage
kneeling beside Saunderson.
We tried to stop the haemorrhage, but by
the time we had succeeded it was too late.
A hundred blood transfusions could not have
saved John Saunderson.
We were all close enough to hear his words
as he rallied for a moment.
“ ‘The man who could not die’!” he
breathed, and his face twisted into the sem-
blance of a grin. His eyes wandered from
me to Mordaunt, and then to Aldeth.
“You here?” he whispered as though in-
credulous.
Suddenly his eyes burned, flashing into
unconquerable vitality for the moment.
“My dear,” he breathed, “I shall not die.
I shall be waiting—if you want me to!”
They were his last words, but his eyes
burned still in a last kindling of his mind
as he watched the girl’s face.
And I knew as I saw the sudden look of
peace that replaced the eager lig\it, and
which in its turn gave place to the filmy
leadenness of death, that Aldeth’s sudden
downward movement of her goldcn-haloed
head had been, although she spoke no word,
an answer and a prayer.
And, irreligious as I was, I suddenly knew
with overwhelming certainty, as I looked at
the still features etched so vividly in the
white sunlight, that he would be waiting.
In death John Saunderson was still the
man who could not die.
The Bells.
There is no sound in this still land,
Captured in summer’s spell;
No voice upon the roving breeze,
Nor murmuring in full-leafed trees;
But through the green sea-swell
There comes a note, remote, yet near,
And through the silent noon I hear
The voice of a deep bell.
Far underneath the feathering wave
Lies the dear drowned land ;
I see again in troubled dreams
The dark hills and the tumbling streams,
The rippling, brown sea-sand,
And little red-sailed ships a’drift
On silken seas that curled to rift
Their crests on the long strand.
Restlessly ring the ghostly bells
Down in the green sea-glare,
From little belfries quaint and steep
The clear notes rise and swiftly leap
Up the long ocean stair
Like joyous, eager, living things
That soar with music in their wings
Into the sunlit air.
Once long ago in that lost land,
A child with questing eyes,
I walked the narrow, cobbled lanes
And saw the latticed window-panes
Opened to shining skies—
When I was young and fields were green,
And forests in a summer sheen
Echoed to W'ild birds’ cries.
The clamor of the bells awakes
Strange, fitful memories—
A summer swallow’s glancing grace,
A pale and half-forgotten face,
The drone of plundering bees,
And fisher nets on shining sands
Yielding to sun-burned, seeking hands
Their captives from the seas.
No sound there is in this warm land,
Still in the noonday light;
But where the cold tides fret and flow
The ghostly bells are ringing low
Deep hidden from all sight.
O drowned bells, how grievingly
You ring your plaintive threnody
Down in the sea’s long night!
N.S.W.
LILLA GORMHUILLE McKAY.


V
Sf'*® B .
• fc
4W*B
S» ; ' f m
wW-WitS- $
i§i
wmamti!*
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES a CHIiKCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. OlHee— o3-107 I'eatherston Street, Wellington
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, B.A.
Always “First" in Queensland Advertising
The BRISBANE COURIER
HAS AGAIN PROVED ITS SUPERIORITY AS
QUEENSLAND’S LEADING ADVERTISING
MEDIUM.
In 1927 the “Courier” carried 9,070 columns more than its
morning contemporary. In 1928 the “Courier” increased its
lead by 386 columns, making a grand total of 9,456 columns
over its morning contemporary.
It’s simply because the “COURIER” is first in Queensland in
CIRCULATION, ADVERTISING AND INFLUENCE.
Rate Cards and specimen copies from RORT. D. FISHER,
74 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone 85007,
Published bp the Brisbane Newspaper Co., “ Courier ” Building, Queen
Street, Brisbane; also publishers of the “Queenslander” and “Sports Referee.”
IF YOU DESIRE
TO REACH THE
TASMANIAN
BUYING PUBLIC
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
should carry your message.
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town and
Country—this Popular Weekly goes regularly
into the homes of the people, and each
issue is eagerly read by men, women ahd
children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest, with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays, Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 223
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: ‘Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street.
Che Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goe3 Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may le
obtained at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Cordon & Ootch, price 1 id.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
WILSON, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone, MA3161.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Queensland’s Greatest Newspaper.
To-day, in the great State of Queensland, the newspaper that
offers to merchants and manufacturers unquestionably the
finest “cover” in the daily paper field is
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
Circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be
greater than that of any other Queensland daily.
For rates and other particulars, please apply to
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-294 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE,
First Floor, Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
What's the matter with you ?
V:
• Million, suffer constipation unknowingly. Their
elimination is regular, but always a day or two late.
A DOSE AT NIGHT
WILL KEEP YOU RIGHT.
You don't quite know whai
is the matter with you.
You're just simply
You should watch carefully for this
condition. It tells of constipation*
and liver trouble. Headaches, dull
eyes, indigestion and biliousness are
further symptoms.
Act at once ! Take Beecham’s Pills,
the most effective method of conquer-
ing constipation. Purely vegetable,
they keep the bowels,
liver and kidneys
healthy and regular.
' •{-.V Vfc -i s
KSsSuW!
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It i the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
TUESDAY—Price 3d
<r
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
w
the Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania,
Is the only daily effectively covering the North
of Tasmania, where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
part of Tasmania that is prosperous and forging
ahead.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner“ Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from:
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd., Mr. V. W. Margetts, Mr. W. G. Dougan,
73-75 Patterson Street, 122 Flinders Street, 701 Herald Building,
Launceston. Melbourne. 66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
w K
o
0°
0
6V
S®
5®
9
so*
&
S?tY> *
..*• «*“*£<*>
't s
~-\ S” vv
.*"
w"


<Wi
/A I
J \ofjFfealls*
AUSTRAIUM
St. ©
-A1
v\
W.M.5 .
,4.
A
s^p-yaj
2C
MADE BY
Rylands Bros. (Aust;.), Ltd.,
NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.,
and at 422 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
Made throughout from BEST Australian materials.
WARATAH “B.H.P. STAR” STEEL POSTS will not burn. No post holes
to dig—no boring of posts—no wedges or ties —no posts to ram—no
insurance—no white ants —easy to erect.
“WARATAH” FENCING WIRE. —The finest netting made in any part of
the world—will stand the severest test—always even and reliable in quality.
Look for “Waratah” identification disc.
“WARATAH” WIRE NETTlNG. —Guaranteed even, regular and reliable
—well galvanised. Full weight and runs out straight and flat. Can always
be relied on.
Made at Newcastle in Australia
FROM
“B.H.P ” STEEL
The World’s Best
“FLEXO” DROPPERS are UNBREAKABLE—FIRE PROOF—RUST PROOF
OX
V
o
3
D
S
NO
WEDGES
OR
TIES
r p °s? s
%%
in
WILL NOT BURN.
If you use Waratah B.H.P. Star Steel Posts you need never fear bushfires.
Waratah Posts will not burn. The posts, being star-shaped, are extraordinarily
rigid. It is almost impossible to bend them. They are a sure protection against
white ants.
With Waratah Steel Posts you should use WARATAH FENCING WIRE. The
finest Fencing Wire made in any part of the world —will stand the severest
straining test—always even and reliable. Look for the “Waratah” disc on every coil.
WARATAH WIRE NETTING, made in Australia, from Australian materials —
guaranteed even, regular and reliable —rolls out flat.
Made at Newcastle, N.S.W., from finest “8.H.P.” SteeL
Qyyfana/aclured j3if
RYLANDS BROS.(AUST.) LIMITED
M El W CASTLE
NO
200 STEEr POSTS or 20 WOOD
POSTS PER DAY,
JJi"
PER DAY
• V//>«* ' ''k
v >, ‘4?
•C\^
I
XAi,' . r-=-
-'sTVf'f-
■w/v>a
BH P STAR STEEL POSTS
A sure protection against White Ants and Damn-rot. Can be easily driven in the
hardest ground. These posts are extraordinarily rigid, and, being star-shaped,
give equal strength in every direction. Also always ask for—
WARATAH FENCING WIRE.
The World’s finest wire—will
stand the severest straining tests.
WARATAH WIRE NETTING
Guaranteed even and reliable.
Runs out flat.
K^A/[cxT\u.FcxcLxjLne.o(
RYLANDS BROS.(AUST.) LTD. NEWCASTLE ■
ALL OF ABOVE ARE MANUFACTURED BY
RYLANDS BROS. (AUS.) LTD., NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
AND AT 422 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
MADE FROM THE FINEST
B.H.P. NEWCASTLE STEEL
