

w
The Bulletin
tAiinwh /QftchMjj,
Vol. 50.—N0. 2576.
Wednesday, June 26, 1929.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


r T , HE 1929 LIBRARY CATALOGUE is
now ready, and will be forwarded post
free, with full terms and particulars, on
application to
DY MOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Life is a gift upon us thrust,
Without demur accept we must;
And as we live it this we find—
The power which gives it is not kind.
With countless ills its course is curst,
And coughs and colds among the worst;
For which the wise find ease is sure
In Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—Advt.-
rmi
siik
Command Tour Pen and Demand Good Pay!
Send this S.B. Advt. for Free Prospectus to
STOTT’S, 100 Russell St., Melbourne.
HOLBROOKS
s>-.
w
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
ẁ
STAMMERING AND STUTTERING
CAN BE CURED IN YOUR OWN HOME
Send TO-DAY for particulars of “Perfect Speech” and copies of letters from
those who have been cured. Philip O’Bryen Hoare, M.8.1.M.5c. (London) (The
Stammerers’ Friend), Specialist in Public Speaking and the Cure of Stammering
and Stuttering.
ADDRESS:
36 BRISBANE ARCADE, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
P.O. Box 1142 P.
Quick, Reliable Way to Stop
RHEUMATISM
Soon Puts Stop to Backache and Joint Pains!
*
Keep your blood free from uric acid, and ageing
pains will not molest you—-Rheumatism, Backache,
Swollen Joints and other tortures cannot then rob
you of your healthy activity and strength. The reli-
able, guaranteed way to get rid of the harmful pain-
causing acid is to take Harrison's Pills, bearing the
signature of a London doctor. Harrison’s Pills
dissolve the uric acid crystals which lie along the
nerves and muscles, torturing them with every move-
ment you make. When you take Harrison’s Pills
vou feel the ageing aches and pains glide away;
you feel strength and health return. Hundreds of
testimonials. A hospital nurse writes:
“To Amalgamated Laboratories, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, -You might be interested to know that
the success of Harrison’s Pills in treating Kidney
and Bladder Troubles, Backache, etc., has been stun
that 1 had: recommended this remedy to scores oj
patients, and I can testify definitely to their unusual
efficacy and great value for use in these ptnnfvl
troubles.”—(Signed) Sister B. Piper.
Decide .VOM to rebuild your life—to get rid of
Rheumatism, Backache, Kidney, Bladder, Unnarj
and Uric Acid Disorders! Get a package of Ham
son’s Bills from the nearest chemist. Three sizes:
18 pills, 2/- : 32 pills, 3/-; and 68 pills', 5/-. T.ib>
an directed, and if not pleased with results from
the very first bottle —money back!
Harrison’s Pills Remove the Cause.
Amalgamated Laboratories, Kembla Building. Sydney; and all IHyh-clnsx Chemists.
HAIR.
NEED
HERES
■umy -
ẃ
Giev Hair is always taken to be a sign
of ago or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a "tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
SfroULms cm Em an)
WcMudStoJurt
'''REMOVES THE GREY'*
I Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable . locally, posted
direct (7//G), 6d. being postage.
ẅ
w
BIRKMYRE'S CLOTH
Regd. Trade-mark.
The best waterproof for motor-car
hoods, tarpaulins, horse and cow
rugs, etc. Canvas of all kinds, cot-
ton ducks and hessians, seaming,
bagging and shop twine.
Fishing nets and yarn. Samples
and prices on application.
™gourock
hope work T rpn
EXPORT CO. lily.
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
Charlotte Street, Brisbane, Q.
460 Flinders Street, Melbourne, Vic.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand.
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT! LUNGS!
HUDSONS Eumenthol Jujubes
AN IDEAL REMEDY For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
4AJJ
w
rO'CR
ON
Bronchitis, Influenza.
Containing no Cocaine or Other
Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says:—“Proved to be effective &*•
tericidally as is creosote.”
Unlike cough medicines, EUMENTHOL
do not interfere with the Digestion; on the contrt'';
they have a beneficial effect, as their antiseP
properties prevent abnormal fermentation of the ®
when taken after meals.
The Red Page
Six Months to Go!
Only six months remain for the com-
pleting of entries for the second Bulletin
Novel Competition—“completing,” because
it is assumed that almost everyone who has
serious intentions on the £750 prize-money
is already working at his MS.
It is, however, impossible to determine
any average time for the writing of novels;
writers come from such different moulds,
and novels, of course, vary tremendously.
One of Australia’s best-known writers re-
marked only two weeks ago: “Let me see—
that novel competition closes at the end
of the year, doesn’t it? I’m thinking of
having a shot for it.” A good deal of
“Treasure Island” was written in nightly
chapters, and there are many other instances
of writers doing almost incredible amounts
of work in limited time. Still, taking the
task all round, six months is not such" a
long time for the making of a good novel.
The Bulletin has received numerous
indications that there will again be a
great number of entrants. The publication
of prize-winners and others in serial form
has encouraged many new writers to try
their hand—chiefly because they think they
can do better, which, of course, awaits proof.
At least, it is a winning spirit. In the
first competition serial merit was not taken
into consideration; it will be in this second
competition, and intending competitors
should have been, and should still be, learn-
ing useful lessons by studying the com-
parative merits as serials of the first
competition harvesting. Apart from that,
there is no change in the conditions, except
that the prize-money will be more equit-
ably distributed:
First £4OO
Second £250
Third £lOO
The competition will close on 31st
December, 1929, at The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street North, Sydney. The
Bulletin will be pleased to supply any
further information upon request.
The Australian Accent
I read a clever novel about Scotland the
other day—A Better Man (Chambers), by
Rosaline Masson—with a young Australian
squatter as hero. He has only one dis-
ability—an Australian accent. He devotes
himself to extirpating it with the grim reso-
lution he had brought previously to the
war and to his struggles with drought, and
eventually wins out. His . Scottish aunt
gives him a clean bill of health, linguis-
tically speaking, and this enables the story
to be brought to a convincingly happy end
frith the heroine shyly confessing her love
for him. British suburban readers, who are
great sticklers for gentility, would not have
stood him otherwise.
A similar point of view is often found in
Australia—principally amongst overseas
educationists and Maorilanders, who, in-
cidentally, have a strong accent of their
own.
There is no doubt about the existence
of the Australian accent. It is the most
remarkable in the world in many ways.
For example, it is the only racial accent
which can be got rid of completely and
quickly in certain cases. Mr. George High-
land, the J.C.W. Co. producer, said in a
recent newspaper interview that “Australian
members of the profession in London were
all working—chiefly in the Talkies—and
their correct speech was such a relief after
the distressing American accent.” It is im-
possible now for Londoners to tell by ear
that stars such as Madge Elliott, Cyril
Ritchard, Dorothy Brunton and Josie Mel-
ville were ever out of London. Yet the
West End stage teems with Americans who
have been in England for years, and remain,
so far as speech goes, as American as when
they arrived. They do not want to go
on talking like Americans. Far from it.
The world-standard of pronunciation in
English-speaking countries is set by the
London stage—Oxford English is often
laughed at; stage English never—so that
in the Talkies the nearer a Hollywood star
gets to the tone and diction of Sybil Thorn-
dike or Gerald du Maurier, the better his
or her prospects are of a lucrative contract.
Though some Australians shed their
national accent with ease, others never can;
and the phenomenon has nothing to do
with breeding, education, wealth, or any of
the factors governing accents in most other
parts of the world. Belgium is said to be the
only foreign country which resembles Aus-
tralia in this respect. A Parisian is as
critical of the accent of an aristocratic
Bruxellois as any schoolmaster newly
arrived from an English university is of the
Australian accent. Practically all Belgians,
however cultivated, speak French with an
accent which sounds “common” to Parisians
—including King Albert and his sons.
Another unique feature of the Australian
accent is its fortuitousness. In. say, an
Irish-born family, all the members will
have the local accent—Cork, Belfast or what
not —and they will retain it till they die.
In an Australian family none of whose
members has been outside Australia some
may speak Australian-English, and others,
quite unconsciously, what may be called
stage-English. It is not unusual to find an
Australian husband, who may be a Judge,
or an eminent doctor, or a millionaire busi-
ness man, with an accent which is lacerating
to the ears of Eton and Oxford, while his
wife speaks as if she had been born and
bred in Mayfair.
The commonest objection lodged against
our accent by the educationists, who are
its chief, or, anyhow, its most articulate,
critics, is that it has a Cockney note; and
so is “an uncultivated accent,” Others, such
as the Scottish ladies in “A Better Man,”
think it “ugly,” “vulgar,” or “not quite
nice.” A deplorable effect is that some Aus-
tralians with unalterable accents are goaded
into imitating their critics. There are few
things more painful to an Australian in
England than to hear a fellow-countryman
pronouncing “day”—“dee,” “now”—“noo,”
and so on, in a futile effort to make the
watchful natives believe that this laborious
mouthing of the language is his usual way
of handling it.
Those who have travelled, and heard
many accents and dialects, agree pretty
generally that the Australian method of
speech takes a lot of beating as a national
method. It is intelligible to strangers,
which Scotch, Yorkshire, Irish, and, for that
matter, Oxford-English often are not; it
is expressive; and, best of all, it is universal.
Members of all classes, in all* parts of the
Commonwealth, use it. As a matter of prac-
tical politics it- has only two rivals—a
bastard Yankee idiom which has crept in
with the pictures, and a “refaned” English
accent such as London shop-assistants em-
ploy for business purposes, but drop, as a
rule, when business hours are over. Fortu-
nately, it is not likely to be modified much
by either, being in the air, like American
“hustle” or French derisiveness.
JOHN DALLEY.
A Maoriland Historian.
If ever Maoriland produces a romantic
historian of the type of J. H. M. Abbott,
the works of T. Lindsay Buick will save
him much laborious research., Buick is the
only contemporary Maorilander who has
been able to develop thfemes selected from
the early colonising days without wander-
ing off into the often-wearving complexities
of tribal lore and legend. His six histories,
including one devoted to the sanguinary
career of the Maori Napoleon. Itauparaha.
throw light upon some hitherto obscure
phases of the political finessing which had
an important influence upon settlement, and
the latest of them, The French at Akaroa,
explodes a hoary myth beloved of Maori-
landers, the tale that Stanley, in H.M.S.
Britomart, won the South Island for the
British Empire by racing the Frenchman.
Lavaud, to Akaroa.
In Christchurch Cathedral is a baptismal
font inscribed, “To the memory of Captain
Owen Stanley, R.N.. by whose enterprise,
a.d. 1840, this island was secured to the
Empire.” This memorial and a monument
on the shores of Akaroa harbor illustrate
Maoriland’s firm attachment to the legend.
The kernel of the story is that Stanley,
scenting the Frenchman’s mission in M.L.
Waters to be the annexation of the South
Island, slipped out of the Bay of Islands
by night, and, with the start thus gained,
beat him by half an hour to Akaroa, where
he ran up the Union Jack. More picturesque
accounts embellish the narrative with the
indiscretion of a junior French officer, who
confided the secret to a charming but inten-
sely patriotic partner at a Government
House ball, the lady at once informing
Stanley, who, with equal promptness, put
off to his ship and sailed south.
Nothing of the kind happened. Had
Lavaud been armed with orders to hoist the
Tricolor as a declaration of French sov-
ereignty he would never have gone to Koro-
rareka at all. Off Van Diemen’s Land a
contrary wind bore him north, and, being
in no apparent hurry, he looked in on
Kororareka. There, when the first evasive
sparring was over, Hobson informed him
that after treaty with the major southern
chiefs the British had formally annexed
the South Island at Cloudy Bay a few
weeks earlier, and from the evidence Buick
adduces it as clear that when the Brito-
mart departed (in broad daylight) Lavaud
knew Stanley was simply taking a couple
of magistrates south to onen courts and
thus confirm British authority. Hence he
was in no hurry to follow, and remained at
the Bay of Islands several more days ex-
changing courtesies with Hobson.
Though Buick dispels that long-standing
illusion, he leaves the story of the French
settlement at Akaroa even richer in color
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING" observed in Spirit and Letter
by Anthony Horderns'.
Anthony Horderns
— (9he Sportsman's Paradise
Values of the Moment in
GUNS
RIFLES
OUR “D.P.S.”
(Deposit-Purchase System)
Where it is inconvenient
to pay immediately for
the goods you can
secure them by leaving
a deposit, and complet-
ing the payment as
and when you wish.
When the payments are
complete the goods are
yours. No interest is
charged.
YTI
07
FISHING TACKLE
YTIO7.—I2G. Iver Johnson D.8.8.L. Hammerless
Gun, “Hercules” Grade, 32in. steel barrels with lug
gorged in one piece, left full choke, right modified,
three-piece mechanism, full pistol grip, rubber capped.
Black walnut stock and fore-end hand checkered.
Chambered for 2f-in. cartridges. Weight, 71b.
Price
£6
HUNTING KNIVES Etc
YT432.—New Ribbed Re-
coil Shoes, for Shot Guns.
Best rubber with resilient
recoil pad. Price, 8/- each.
'V-V
YT432
YTIBO
YTlBo.—Bayard .22 Calibre Self-cocking
Automatic-ejecting Rifle, chambered for short
or long cartridges. 19in. barrel, adjustable
rear sight, sporting front sight. Plain walnut
pistol-grip stock with checkered grip.
Weight, 3flb. Price 35/- each.
YTI4I
YTl4l.—Winchester S.S. Rifle, Model 1902,
to take .22 short, long or long-rifle cartridges.
Round barrel, I 8 inches long. Weight, about
31b. Price 32/6 each
As illustrated, with elevating sight.
Price 36/- each
Send for complete
catalogue of
Guns, Fishing
Tackle and other
Sportsmen’s
Needs.
ŵ
YT436
YT436.— Hunting Knives of finest Sheffield Steel.
Heavy blade adapted to sticking and skinning, in
leather sheath. sin., price 7/6; 6in., price .. 8/-
UK*
CIS
YT7O6
YT7o6.—Donegal Genuine
Cutty-hunk Line, made
from finest Irish Linen
Thread. 100 yd. spools,
Size 9 12 15
Dry Test 181 b. 241 b. 301 b.
Price . . 6/6 7/6 8/6
Can be had in 300 yards.
ẁ
YT6 I 1
YT6ll.—Greenheart Sea Rods, 7ft., 2 joints, por
celain rings, cork grip.
Heavy, price 35/
Light, price 30/
ẃ
Winchester Black and Smokeless Ammunition.
Wide selection of sizes in stock, as below:
,25/20 W.C.F.
.32
.38
.44
Black.
100 1000
13/6 120/-
13/6 120/-
16/- 142/6
16/- 142/6
Smokeless.
100 1000
16/6 160/-
16/6 160/-
YT443
YT443. —Rabbiter’s Set, with partitioned leather
sheath and sharpening steel. Loops at back for
attaching to belt. Price 6/-
A Wide Selection always in Stock.
Department-—Ground Floor; we deliver
these free in City or Suburbs.
ẅ
YTI3I
YTI3I.—I2G. Belgian D.B. Hammerless Gun.
Anson action, with treble Greener crossbolt, side
clips, fine black steel barrels, left choke-bored,
matter rib. Neat engraving, selected walnut stock,
push-down rod fore-end. English hardening.
Proved for smokeless powder. Price ...... £6
As illustrated £6/5/-
w
ŵ
ẁ
YT6s6.—Best Solid Brass Star Back Reels, brass
lining and flange to prevent warping, with line
guard. Prices:.
3 3| 4 4* 5 6 7
20/- 21/6 23/6 25/6 30/- 35/6 45/-
Anthony Horderns'
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O.


ẃ
ẅ
Motorists have acclaimed Essex
the Challenger and the Greater
Hudson the outstanding values
in all motordom. In both cars
they have found challenging per-
formance in speed, reliability and
economy. They have found
beauty, ease of control, roominess
and luxurious appointments.
There is a body style exactly
suited to your requirements in
a wide range of prices. The
Greater Hudson presents 14 dis-
the Challenger
tinguished body types on 2 chassis
lengths, and Essex the Challenger
may be had in 7 different models.
See these fine, big Super-Sixes.
Drive them under any conditions
of road or weather. Go to your
nearest Hudson-Essex dealer and
test them. Then you will know
why all motordom is buying Essex
the Challenger and the Greater
Hudson.
ESSEX PRICES AT SYDNEY.
5 Balloon Tyres Standard Equipment.
Tourer (Australian Body)
Standard Sedan (Australian Body) . .
Standard Sedan (Imported Body) . .
Coupe (Imported Body) . . . . , .
Convertible Coupe (Imported Body)
Town Sedan (Imported body, with bumper bars)
£290
365
399
385
395
420
HUDSON PRICES AT SYDNEY.
5 Balloon Tyres Standard Equipment.
Hudson—l22in. Wheelbase.
Roadster (Imported Body) . . . . . . , . £5OO
Coach (Imported Body) . . . . . . , . 520
Coupe (Imported Body) . . . . . . . . . . 535
Standard Sedan (Imported Body) . . . . . . . . 535
Landau Sedan (Imported Body) . . . . . . . . 610
Tourer (Imported Body) . . . . . . . . . . 550
Town Sedan (Imported Body) , . . . . . . . 580
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY
DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
MOTORS LIMITED.,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
AUTOS LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BEY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.


For Any Travel
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
w
The accredited Agents of all Steam
Ship Lines. Their expert guidance and
special facilities cost you nothing.
TO EUROPE 1930
Apply now for accommodation, as
berthing plans for all steamers are open.
WINTER TOURS
To Queensland, Bali, Java, Siam,
Japan, Hawaii, Malaya, Sumatra, Indo-
China (Saigon, Pnom-Penh, Angkor).
STEAMER EXCURSIONS
Cairns, South Sea Islands, Fiji, Tahiti,
Honolulu, Ceylon, Java, Japan and
Manila, etc.
COOKS’ TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES
Are the safest and most convenient
means of carrying funds.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street,
ADELAIDE:
49 Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY*
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).
than before. As the years passed the mere
handful of French colonists were absorbed
in the larger settlement of Canterbury, but
before that happened Lavaud remained with
them two years as a devoted and tactful
guardian. The streets in Akaroa are still
six metres wide, and it is the only town
in the country whose boundary extends to
low-water mark.
Buick has few graces of style, but he has
the rare quality of patience in research, and
the treasures he has harvested from the
national archives of France are a priceless
contribution to the historical literature of
Maoriland. Addicted in his younger days
to politics, he was one of the new Liberals
who voted Ballance and Seddon. to power.
To-day he views his politics from the de-
tachment of the Parliamentary Press Gal-
lery.
J.G. McLEAN.
Atom to Man
In Mind and Life from Atom to Man
(Daniel; Basement Bookshop, Sydney),
Albert Dawson, though he reasons coldly
without enthusiasms and freely uses terms
at which the unscientific are wont to
shudder, has written a book which any in-
quiring mind should find fascinating. In
some detail the thought is original, but in
the main the book is a massing of evidence
gathered from numerous observers, from
Empedocles to the Maorilander Ruther-
ford. The author’s postulates are: (1) Mind
is universal, continuous and coeval with
matter and energy; (2) Mind is a mode of
energy correlated with all other modes of
energy, and is the dominant initiative of
all movement in nature; (3) Mind, matter
and energy are fundamental and inseparable.
Mind is accepted as a physical fact, not
a metaphysical conception. The value of
any metaphysical conception is repudiated.
There is, the author finds, a close analogy
between superstition and metaphysics. In
both man attempts to explain things he
cannot comprehend, by a reference to a
supposed something that is supernatural.
The ignorant savage leans on superstition,
a form of metaphysics; the philosopher
out of his depth leans on metaphysics, a
form of superstition more subtle and re-
fined than that of the savage, but the same
in essence. Again the philosopher is out of
hi:; depth who regards the origin of life as
a problem that may be solved. Death is
only a relative term. The individual man,
animal or plant ceases to exist or is “dead”
in a somewhat similar sense to that in which
an industrial company may be said to be
“dead” when co-operative partnership ceases.
The persons who formed the company are
just as alive as ever, and simply turn their
activities into other paths of enterprise.
When the individual dies it is but the co-
operative functions that cease; the funda-
mental activities of the molecules and
atoms, whose co-operative functions con-
ditioned the life of the individual, are just
as much alive as ever; they cannot die;
they simply change the scene of their
activities.
Mind, Mr. Dawson contends, is in every
thing. To deny it to anything other than
man is merely to reveal the self-centred
egotism that has so long delayed a know-
ledge of the truth that mind is universal, and
extends it's operations far beyond the capa-
city of our comprehension. It is becoming
generally recognised that plants can perceive
rays of energy that man cannot perceive,
and to call this vegetable detecting of
invisible rays is merely to exhibit that same
unwillingness to recognise that there is an
intelligence in nature beyond the intelli-
gence of man. Actually, the mind of a
pumpkin seed has a genius for making
pumpkin vines, but no ability in music or
mathematics; just as the musical or mathe-
matical genius has no ability whatever in
the making of pumpkin vines. And since
mind, matter and energy are inseparable,
perception as a primary evidence of mind
must in some form be common to all things.
Perception in a billiard ball! That is Mr.
Dawson’s hypothesis. Man and the higher
animals possess very evident sense organs
for the transmutation of movements into
perceptions, but as we go down the scale
these organs disappear, and we find living
organisms that show most decided evi-
dences of perception, yet have no 'organs of
perception that can be discovered. It is
evident, therefore, that a perceptive sense
may be present in that which has no evident
mechanism by which a perception may be
functioned. We simply cannot deny the
evidence of a perceptive sense in anything
whatever. A piece of cabbage on being
scalded to death is thrown into violent con-
vulsions, and the ludicrously unsteady
character of the response of the plant under
alcohol could be effectively exploited in a
temperance lecture.
Contending that there is a physical limit
to intelligence, Mr. Dawson asserts that
everything that lives is bound by existing
physical conditions in nature to develop to
such an extent and no further, except by
artificial alterations in those physical con-
ditions. Artificiality at the present day
has run to an excess that breeds degenera-
tion. When we consider that widespread
intellectual weakness continues after the
efforts of noble minds in all ages to elevate
the intelligence of the masses above the
degradation of superstition, we cannot
rationally conclude that the average intelli-
gence of the human race has improved in
any perceptible manner during thousands
of years. And as mind function and power
depend upon and are conditioned by struc-
ture, there is apparently some physical limit
beyond which mind cannot pass.
Mr. Dawson’s style is vigorous and direct,
and in presenting his case he steers a neat
middle course between the stilted “scien-
tific” and the blatant “popular.”
A Satchel of Books
Political Handbook of the World, pub-
lished by the Yale University Press for the
Council of Foreign Relations. The second
issue of a very useful reference annual. Its
comprehensive*, closely-condensed informa-
tion is easy to get at and carefully indexed.
Publication price is 24 dollars.
Three Births in the Hemingway Family
(Hutchinson; Dymocks) includes the intro-
duction of a spiritualistic motif in the person
of a Hemingway who returns from the
grave after half a century. There is dra-
matic beauty in this episode. But a vast
amount of good writing is expended on that
tiresome freak the bright young modern
girl. Cissi, who is responsible for the last
of the Hemingway births, is one of the most
poisonous young women presented to stu-
dents of light fiction for a long time.
Open House, by .T. B. Priestley (Heine-
mann). First published in 1927 and now
included in the inexpensive Windmill
Library, this collection holds “At a Concert,”
“Sutcliffe and I,” “The Berkshire Beasts”
and other essays in which the engaging author
is at his highest. The book includes its
share of comparative trumpery, such as the
mere filling of space in “A Young Man of
Promise,” but taken all through it is repre-
sentative of one of the brightest pens at the
moment carrying forward the traditions of
Elia.
The Story of London’s Great Fire, by
Walter George Bell, and London Nights, by
Stephen Graham (Bodley Head). Fine
additions to the Week End Library. The
first is a portion of “The Great Fire of Lon-
don,” which, first published in 1920, was
regarded as a definitive history of an extra-
ordinary event that had not before found a
historian. The author has not attempted an
abridgment, but has lifted out the story of
the actual fire, and so has made a book as
excellent in its way as the massive original.
“London Nights” is also the work of a Fog
Town expert. The “nights” are dealt with
in 40 essays, studies, sketches and stories
which range all over the city, from China-
town to the West End, from a doss-house to
St. Paul’s.
My Ancestors, by ex-Ivaiser Wilhelm 11.
(Heinemann; Roycroft Library, Sydney).
What faults may be sheeted home to the
former war lord, garrulity should not be
among them. The family sketches, with the
compiling of which he has amused himself
at Doom, are all brief and almost racy.
He dedicates the book to his wife; admits
that the “Zollerns are just men like other
men” and that in the line of his House
“energetic characters are succeeded by weaker
ones.” Members of the House have ever
regarded themselves as the “simple bailiffs
of God in the performance of His work. ’
and this “sense of personal responsibility
to God automatically compelled them to keep
the ‘good’ of the ‘Whole’ always before
them” —a statement which seems to gain
virtues from the unexplained emphasising of
the words “good” and “Wh01e”.... “Fear-
less and faithful: may our House and our
people keep this matt) everlastingly before
their eyes,” is his closing prayer.
“Zorro”: The money that is in books is
revealed by an overhaul of the Turnbull
Library (M.L.) recently completed by
librarian and author Johannes C. Andresen.
The collection, presented to the Dominion
by the late Walter Turnbull, was worth
£250,000 when the transfer took place a
decade ago. To-day the books are valued
at £500,000, and within the next 10 years,
Andresen declares, they will have a market-
price of over a million. The library is
famous for its collection of Miltonia, which
is the best outside the British Museum and
which includes a number of things the
British Museum does not possess. Figures
are illuminating. For one of Conrad’s first
editions Turnbull paid 18 guineas; a similar
book changed hands the other day for
£425. A copy of Fielding’s “Tom Jones”
came this way for £700; recently its market
price was £5BOO.
TO A QUEEN-BREAKER.
On leading Lvtton Strachey’s “Queen Victoria”
and “Elizabeth and Essex.”
“We knew her well,” we said ; “Alas, poor
Yorick!”
Each Queen of England in the storied
past;
Nor dreamed that you, a self-appointed War-
wick,
Would strew' the throne with idols over-
cast.
When our revered preceptors used to teach
of them,
We all accepted, reading as we ran,
One simple, solid fact concerning each of
them,
Victoria, Elizabeth and Anne.
This was an Angel, in the form of woman;
That was the Virgin Queen, .we kept in
mind.
Yet find you proving, with a skill inhuman,
That each, in turn, was nothing of the
kind.
What of that other? History holds to grieve
us
But one more blow, to which we bow the
head,
As hardly daring hope that you will leave us
Our trustful credence that Queen Anne
is Dead —
Press on your ruthless idol-breaking mission!
We, when you turn your wit to other
scenes,
Must raise one warm unanimous petition,
“From Lytton Strachey’s pen, God Save
the Queens!”
S.A.
S. TAIBOT SMITH.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently s P •
frame and address must appear on the MS. .Vo liability is undertaken re contributions i
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
F.r.: It has gone down into the fearsome
depths. .. .5.0. A.: Hate to think what we’d say if
we were inclined to be sarcastic... .E.M.: Phrases
like “egg-pale road” and the archaic dialogue spoil
work otherwise interesting.... E. 11. M.: Amusing, but
you overlook the word “sufficient” and so your argu-
ment flops. .. .F.G.: Scarcely worth recording....
S.L.: Anyway, you’re cheerful; try again. .. .0.P.:
Doesn’t get above middling.... Speck: Vegetarians,
please note: —
As the cabbage feels the knife that’s stuck
In its heart, so it’s cruel
Green timber on the fire to chuck
Or use undead bracken for fuel,
. ...C.H.H.: What is it —a drawing or a sonnet?
.. . .L.N.: Go ahead —edit The Bulletin from Perth,
W'.A N. or M.: Thanks ; we’ll inquire for y0u....
R.R.P.: Afraid it would interest scarcely anybody.
. ...C.K.: “The Breeze” blew itself out... .Z.V.W.:
The idea is not new... .P.R.: You don’t make a poem
of it... .D.U.V.: Tedious... .F.M.S.: Had to reject
the little minister with the cough. .. .C.T.: A nasty
subject. .. .P.R.E,: Off our track... .P.M.: Construc-
tion poor; ending commonplace... .Fisk: “Pore
Bill” laid to rest. .. . J.G.: A misfit. . . .H.K.: Gentle-
man with back teeth awash in beer is an old friend.
. ...R.R.: Misery, mud and snakes... .G. A.M.: Too
much dog... .C.K.E.: Reads like a newspaper report.
....25.A.: A misfire... .Micah: “My soul desired the
first ripe fruit,” but your apples are green....
G.1.W.W.: Can’t slip the thin man through.
....W. Sub: The voting in Ashfield was 6537 for
Jarvie, 2904 for Sparrow (Lab.) and 1787 for
Huie (Ind.) ; no preferential count was necessary....
W.M.M.: Rather gushy for our taste... .E.F.: You
certainly “give Pegasus his bit”... .R.K.: No room.
. ...E.R.T.: But every word of that has already
been said in The Bulletin. .. .8.5.: You seem to
have been inspired by an undertakers’ picnic....
Buz: Might do for the literary supplement in some
daily.... Gyp: Has only a slight historical interest.
. ...J.N.: Morbid sentimentality T.M.N.: Won’t
do.'.. .G.J.: Poor in construction... .M.K.: Whole-
some, but food for infants... .P.L.: A moral, and
not much else... . T.S.: Close resemblance in plot
to another and better-told tale.... J.W.A.: Please,
don’t send any more like that... .A.8.C.: The stars
are unpropitious.... 11.T.G.: Thanks for one phrase
—“enveloped in a clutching halo of feline fury”....
Dixit: Unacceptable as satire, sermon or story....
A.L.E.: No use for that sort of article... .Vet.:
Thanks; but there are Australian parallels. “Cross-
cut” Wilson, of Westralia, who contributed capital
verse to Bean’s “Anzac Book,” served in the Soudan
with the 1885 Contingent and in the Great War. So
did Captain Cope, of N. S. M ales ; and at 59 Cope
got the French Croix de Guerre for carrying in
wounded... .Wilga: N.S.W. northern coalminers,
2s. 5 11-16 d. to 6s. livid, per ton, according to
conditions of seams, etc. Deputies, 245. 4d.; shot-
firers, 21s. 7d. to 225. Id.; engine-drivers, 18s. 7d.
to 235. ; stokers and firemen, 18s. to 18s. 7d. ;
shiftmen, 18s. to 225. Id. ; wheelers, 18s. 3d. to
18s. 9d.- —all per day... .W.L.P.: A bit too long
for our use; a good yarn nevertheless.... W.G.H.:
Doesn’t finish as well as it deserves to. .. .Figaro:
You’ve got your local color wrong. You know
your own town; why don’t you make your stage
of that instead of some far place you’ve only read
a little about?... .8.W.: You belong to the pre-Cook
school. You have yet to discover Australia....
Hatter: When your “Shepherd’s Pie” was opened
the oof birds didn’t begin to sing A U.:
Poor in places; worse in others... ■" . I.:
Someone else has handled that idea. . • -K.B. •.
Nothing worth saying.... 8.8. G.: “Autumns
Finality” now has affinity with life’s long dream. . • ■
Q.T.: “I care not for the paltry prize of gold.”
Then you won’t be disappointed to-day... .Anton:
Quite appreciate that you poets “have feelings.
But so have we F.M.C.: You should have done a
good deal better with that idea... .T.1.M.:
“Three Small Things” is fairly descriptive....
A.N.W.: Not our kind A.R.: Nearly did the trick.
... .Rabbi Rah: “Symphony” doesn’t win a note. .. .
Gecko: “Don’t dump this,” you say; “kill a poet
with it.” Afraid the one it makes us feel most like
slaughtering isn’t a poet... .8.C.: “The Wife’s
Dream” doesn’t mean that a cheque is going to have
a ride in the puff-puff... .Raymon: You should be
able to place “Bottle-fed” somewhere... .J.F.N.:
You haven’t improved much... .D.T.W.: Not up....
D.C.H. : A wintry interior: —
“Oh, what a night!” the people say,
Talking loud above the gale.
“Who would be out on a night like this?”
“Listen! 1 do believe it’s hail.”
The cats are sleeping round the hearth
The glowing Are makes them red.
With envious eyes the people sit
And wish they were in bed.
... .R.W.J.: Don’t know where you could place that
piece of “free verse,” unless, perhaps, with some
Scotch editor... .TJ.O.: Back.... Henry P.: You
need to combat argument with argument 8.D.:
You’re not the only one to fancy a triolet is as
easy as it 100k5... .Fos: The repeating of that joke
justified the first bow-and-arrow execution. .. .Whit-
tington : Try London, Dick... .E.L.: P00r.... J.G.H.:
Cheers us to know that drovers still use camp-fires.
We’d heard thpy had taken to radiators... .A.S,:
Drags to nowhere. .. . 8.R.P.: Another proof that
“Murder” will 0ut....Y.5.: Here’s to “The Fisher-
man’s Bride” :
Hopeless she watched the fishing-boat
Go sailing afar out to sea,
For she knew that ere long it would not float
Back in again with he!
Alas, it was the time he never came back.
And now in her cottage awaits she
Who watches a little tot come up the track—
But ah, it reminds her of he!
....Statics: In 1926-27 our imports exceeded our
exports in value by just on £20,000,000. Exports
exceeded imports by £3,700,000 in Maoriland,
£10,250,000 in S. Africa, and £48,500,000 in
Canada. That really explains the whole thing.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.P.: The chimney-pots were its only arresting
feature.... D.M.: Two were such chestnuts that we
naturally suspected the third. .. .S.P.: You’re per-
sistent, if not original... .L.S.: Who has been
mangling the charlady and her partner ?.... D.T.:
Heavy-handed art and fatuous “humor”... .F.H.:
Antediluvian gag... .A.F.T.: We have a number of
very young contributors doing better. . . .J.A.M.: Not
so bad; aim at getting more control over your pen.
... .L.J.M.C.: No stabling for your dejected steed.
. ...A.F.: Very little merit in it... .A.P.M.: That
dull old underclothing wheeze again!


ii mm
■Hi
7 4p«wmpsfi'fli
.* !.± i -t i* dm MMSW
; ■ : ■
1J
t-r- #Jy
' m*
/ -Jps
I
•' u
■
/■■■■Sv:
■
ASkA* : •
■
1
mgm
«®
..
* Swil
lIhBHI
V
■ W-% 1
'
__ L :
' '':v ;; :
'
■si ■
■
■
■'
s . m
< ' ' ■"'■ ■ '
, : .
,■. v'iM
--• :
• .
fKggs»> ■ I
MM
mh
■
1 S
..
'St
■
f^wl
f
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 50.—N0. 2570.
June 20, 1029.
THE MAN WHO CAN’T MAKE UP HIS MIND.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
21b George Street, Sydney; Box 252188.
Victoria: llb-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 2.{9 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London: 36 Southampton Street.
Term* to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
5 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: JOoz., Id. United Kingdom: J/oz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional boz., Id. All Sea. Route: ltioz., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: joz. nr part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 2 0z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES . . 2, 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS ..5
A FRONT-PAGE CARTOON RY LEASON .. 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
Industrial War Lords 8
DISARMAMENT AND SINGAPORE ..8
Maoriland’s Worst Earthquake ■ ■ 8
lIERTZOG THE WINNER . . 8, 9
DEFEATING THE JURY-SQUAK EI! .. ..9
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 9
POLITICS (with caricatures) . . .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) . . . . . . 11, 12
PERSONAL (with three drawings) .. .. 14
The Late William Macleod • • .. 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..17
“WILD OAT” COLUMNS 18, 20
BANK OF NEW ZEALAND 18
GORDON & GOTCH 18
H. McKENZIE 18
MORRIS, HEDSTROM. LTD 18, 20
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 23, 25
Free Service Department 26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 32
FLAX-GROWING IN TASMANIA .. ..28
HUMUS IN WHEAT LAND 28
SMOKE-OH 34
PEN AND PICTURE 37
SPORTING (Illustrated) 39, 41, 42
CAULFIELD AND MOOREFIELD RACES . . 39
INTER-STATE FOOTBALL 39, 41
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC 42
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 44
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE . . .. 46
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 49
“The Quartermaster” • . 50, 51, 52, 58
STORY—
“JUDSON SEES IT THROUGH”—
By Albert Dorvington . . .. 55, 57, 58
VERSE—
“TO A QUEEN-BREAKER”—
By S. Talbot Smith 5
“THE MAIN TRUNK LINE”—
By E. W. O’Brien 11
"THE GIRL FROM TOWN,” by P.T.F. . . 23
“THE PLEA,” by Christobel Francis .. .. 58
ffie'tfeidleito
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 26, 1929.
INDUSTRIAL WAR LORDS.
Britain’s Commission on Industrial Unrest
reported in 1917 that “the problem was
fundamentally a human and not an eco-
nomic one”; and that is the position in
Australia to-day. The trouble is that hate
propaganda has been exploited for so long
that many on both sides are now keener
about a win than its fruits. In the past few
days the employers have been described in
the Labor press as “profit-grabbing robbers,”
“timber Pharaohs” and “pirates”; the police
have been compared with “cracksmen”;
so-called “class-biased” Judges have been
warned that “at the next election every
Labor candidate will be pledged to remove
them from the Bench,” and N. S. Wales
has been told “not to be surprised if in a
future strike the men are behind guns,
pointed in the right direction.” The language
used by some employers is equally remin-
iscent of the language used by a country
about its enemies during a war, though it
does not find its way into print as a rule.
Non-combatants suffer by these demon-
strations in various directions—unemploy-
ment, raised prices, gas shortages, timber
shortages, and so on —and there is always
a chance that the hate-propagandists, Labor
and anti-Labor, will succeed, between them,
in getting‘the general strike going by which
each side expects to beat the opposition to
its knees.
If a general strike began in any essential
industry, such as coal, violence would begin
with it. However well-behaved the strikers
may be on such occasions an element
always appears that is out for loot, sabotage,
or any other form of crime, as London dis-
covered during both its police and general
strikes. In most great modern cities, notably
London, Paris and Berlin, the citizens are
insured against the worst on such occa-
sions by big police forces and also by
shock troops or a highly-organised special
constabulary, or both. In Australia the
first and only line of civil defence is pro-
vided by the State police forces, which have
failed, so far, even to check the attacks of
“basher gangs” on free timber workers. It
is safe to conclude that if one of our
strikes developed along the lines that, the
hate-experts want there would be carnivals
of crime in some of the populous centres
until the inhabitants organised defence
measures. Disorder would not last long, of
course, Australia being one of the last
countries in the world to want a revolution
of violence; but it might cause great
damage, and perhaps loss of life, before
it was got under control.
There is a blacker tragedy than either
present unrest or the possibility of anarchy
—the fact that we are losing that sense ol
national unity which was almost the only
gain we got from the war. For some time
after the Armistice there was little or no
sectional animosity. It seemed as if Aus-
tralians of all classes, creeds and States
were welded together, as they had been at
the front, and that it was the national
destiny to march on unitedly from strength
to strength. The hate-mongers set about
ending this state of affairs as quickly as
possible. Thousands of workers are more
or less permanently on active service, indus-
trially speaking, or contributing to the
support of comrades who are fighting, with
the result that, to quote Prime Minister
Bruce, “Australia, which should be the most
prosperous of all nations, is off the path of
prosperity.” It is a high price to pay for
the pleasure of fighting, but industries which
are run by war lords can no more hope for
peace and prosperity than Kaiser-controlled
nations.
In Melbourne one day last week 50 men
were wanted for the Collins-street tramway
conversion job. Between 5000 and 6000,
mostly of a first-class type, applied. In
Sydney the parks and streets contain a
tragic army of unemployed, and it is grow-
ing constantly as the coal and timber strikes
drag on, and more and more businesses
have to reduce staffs. This pitiful state of
affairs, as a result of which scores of
thousands of decent Australian workers
have been put on the bread-line, is partly
due, no doubt, to incompetent government,
Nationalist as well as Labor—to depart-
mental extravagance, over-taxation and
over-regulation of industry—and to a short-
sighted preference for imported goods
amongst governing bodies ahd individuals
alike; but it is exacerbated at every turn
by those who live by creating trouble in
industry and keeping employers and employ-
ees at each other’s throats. This country,
which the war never touched, should be as
prosperous as the U.S.A.; and so it would
be if we put our house in order as the
U.S.A. has done and made it plain to the
war lords of industry that we have no
further use for them, war lords being out
of date.
DESTROYERS.
In this article Mr. Abbott describes
the part of the torpedo-boat in naval
warfare, and tells how Australia’s Navy
learns to be all that its size will permit.
“Cutter’s alongside, sir,” said the officer-of-
the-watch, and “sir” presently descended
the flagship’s side-ladder, and embarked in
a vast boat, full of lusty young galley-
slaves, who proceeded to transfer him to
a long, low, rakish, piratical speed-boat—
H.M.A.S. Anzac. In that beamy cutter,
at seven o’clock in the morning, he almost
felt that he was a cog in Australia’s naval.
machinery, instead of an ignorant land-
lubber setting forth on swift travels of dis-
covery. Hervey Bay was very blue and
glass-like, and Fraser Island looked almost
pretty and inviting in the soft, warm sun-
light of the best winter weather they use
in Bananaland. It is neither inviting nor
pretty in reality.
For a start off in our career of destruc-
tiveness, we were going after the Swordsman
with “throw-off” firing; after that the flotilla
was to get on the tracks of that brand-new,
expensive and ingenious warship the Can-
berra and seek to sink her theoretically
with torpedoes, which, if the lieutenant
(T) controlling the department had any
luck, would crumple their soft noses against
her water-line blister, and (still theoreti-
cally) send her down to the crabs of Hervey
Bay.
“Throw-off” gunfire is as realistic a bit of
work as the Navy does in peace time. The
gunlayer sights on a real ship, and a real,
solid, dangerous projectile awaits the twitch
of his forefinger to hurl itself at her. So
far as he is concerned, malice aforethought
designs the holing of her hull and her rele-
gation to the locker of Davy Jones. But
the gunsight is designedly lying; the
muzzle is bearing, say, four to six degrees
astern of her, so that the splash of the pro-
jectile as it hits the sea is all the damage
she sustains. I asked the fleet gunnery
officer if this interesting deception ever
went wrong.
“Rather!” he replied cheerfully. Ive
been hit three times. But it doesn’t happen
ofteni”
I was taken to the bridge, introduced to
the commander (D), who has charge of the
flotilla, and hospitably requested to make
myself at home.
The torpedo-shoot was to have been
finished bright and early, but in mid-fore-
noon a great bank of fog rolled across
the sunlit waters of Hervey Bay, and
blotted out everything. We couldn’t see
our target, so there was nothing to do but
anchor the ship, and anchor ourselves m
ward-room easy-chairs. You learn very
quickly in destroyers to crawl up and down
little round holes, by means of perpendicu-
lar steel ladders that just about accommo-
date the width of your shoulders, and it is
not long before you can emerge rapidly on
deck without bumping the back of your
head as you go up. But there isn’t much
room, and every inch of space is valuable-
even more so in the type of Swordsman and
Success, to whom Anzac is a leviathan. So
we sat down and smoked, and swapped
yarns, and yearned for the mists to dis-
perse, which they very obligingly did in
the early afternoon. Then, after the sub-
calibre popping-match was completed, and
Swordsman had been sunk, the real business
of the day began, and the destroyers set out
to destroy. ,
Far away on the horizon the Canberra s
high hull stood up like a lonely house on
the edge of a big plain. She was 15 miles
away when we began to go after her. But
sea-distances like that, considerable enough
to those used only to the low speeds ot
merchant shipping, are nothing to these
slim greyhounds, whose pace may be set to
more than 30 miles an hour; and we weren t
long in overhauling our prey.
From Anzac’s fo’c’s’le, which, by the great
overhang of the bows, is the widest part of
that long, narrow war-hound, the two other
destroyers, cleaving their rapid way through
the glassy waters on our port side, looked
very swift and graceful. The rake of the
squat funnels, the slimness of their beam,
the speed-boat stern, the curling bow-wave
made by their sharp prows, and the white
ensign standing out at right angles on this
quite windless afternoon are sufficient alone
to give them an aspect of velocity. The
rapidity with which our quarry draws nearer
confirms the impression that we are racing
across the still surface of the bay like
drunken joy-riders. There is a throb and a
shake from the engines of 36,000-h.p. that
sends a sensation of Power tingling through
the nerve-centres. Leisurely seabirds,
wheeling gracefully above the glassy waters
on their lawful occasions, are overtaken
and left behind.
All the morning the torpedo-gunners have
been busy about their tubes, two pairs of
which may be pointed on either beam
amidships. Delicate fish they are, yet very
strong, and their cerebral power is amazing.
Somebody has put a thinking apparatus in
them that keeps them down to a pre-
arranged depth, and does not permit of
their diverging by a hair’s-breadth from the
course they are set upon.
Suddenly Swordsman began to belch
clouds of black smoke from her funnels, and
then Success, from two red drums at her
stern, poured out curling volumes of dense
white fog. We were nearly two miles from
the Canberra. Soon, a black-and-white
opaqueness hid us from our mark. Anzac
dropped behind, and turned to port at right
angles through the screen, emerging pre-
sently at racing speed from the dense fog
that hung upon the waters. We dashed
towards the big cruiser, swung round to
starboard, and let go two torpedoes. One
after the other they dived overboard, and’
raced away towards the target. Faintly,
their track was for a time discernible—
a film of oil and a few bubbles that caught
the sunlight. We sped after to salve them
—in the real thing, of course, we would have
been going for the lick of our lives the
other way, pelted by gun-fire. Would the
torpedoes hit?
Time, drawn out by suspense, slowly
passed, and then two white whiffs of smoke
drifted abovp the waters beyond and astern
of the Canberra, who, by the rules of the
game, had been permitted to turn 60 deg. to
either beam.
We’d missed! Somebody said Damn! —
and it may have been the Lieutenant (T).
J.H.M.A.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Disarmament and. Singapore.
If the Singapore-Base scheme survives the
MacDonald Government, the Dawes
Ambassadorship and Britain’s unemploy-
ment crisis it will deserve to take rank
amongst the immortals. It is in the unfor-
tunate position of providing the two Labor
wings, as well as the Liberals, by whose
help the Ramsay MacDonalds expect to
hang on to office, with a common ground
for righteous anger.
It has always suffered in this way. When
Lloyd George realised that the general
strike, which he had condoned, if not sup-
ported, was hateful to the poor, equally
with the rich, he turned to Singapore, and
recovered a certain amount of “face” by
stressing Japan’s objections to it. The
Americans, who are very short of naval
bases, disapprove of the addition of another
to the Empire’s already formidable collec-
tion. Official Liberalism has always been
opposed to Singapore (London Daily News
habitually decries it as “a morass in a cul-
de-sac,” and stresses the superior merits
of Trincomalee), and the present Parliamen-
tary party, though small, speaks for
5,000,000 electors. And there are millions
in the other two parties who associate the
place vaguely with nigger-driving, rubber-
profiteering and the squandering of huge
sums of British capital which might be dis-
bursed more advantageously, so far as this
generation is concerned, on social services
at home.
The last MacDonald Government held
up work at Singapore, except on the oil
tanks; and at that time unemployment
was not so acute in Britain, and American
and British pacifists had not begun to make
disarmament deals with one another. The
present Government is liable to repeat its
former > gesture, and, possibly, secure
reclame in the U.S.A., amongst the irritated
Continental powers, and amongst British
anti-imperialists by scrapping it altogether,
unless the point of view of Australasia is
put with clearness and promptitude.
The time may come when Singapore will
be the chief material link binding the Com-
monwealth and M.L. to the Mother
Country.
*
Maoriland’s Worst Earthquake.
Maoriland is situated over or near several
large areas in which the earth crust is thin
and subject to frequent volcanic disturb-
ances and collapses of strata. Over 2000
of these have been recorded in the history
of white settlement, but none has affected
so great an area or caused so much
loss of life and damage to property as that
which occurred last week.
It was a long-continued series of shocks
affecting many townships, chiefly in the
South Island. A terrifying feature, and one
not often associated with Maoriland earth-
quakes, was that the tremors were accom-
panied by loud detonations, occasioning
panic which probably contributed to the
death-roll. There have been shocks of
greater intensity—notably in the Wellington
district in 1848 and 1855 —but hitherto the
loss of life has been small—five deaths in
75 years. According to the reports avail-
able—and these are probably incomplete-
three times as many persons perished in
the latest upheaval.
In its general effects as experienced in
Westland, the province which suffered most
severely, the ’quake, was a replica of the
succession of shocks that occurred in the
Cheviot district of Canterbury in 1901. In
that case the earth rocked alarmingly, and
long parallel fissures made their appearance.
When the shocks subsided these closed, leav-
ing the land on one side several. inches
higher than on the other. In such a moun-
tainous district as Westland, where so many
dwellings are perched on steep hillsides and
the rivers run through precipitous gorges,
the effect of such disturbances can be imag-
ined.
The disaster is a serious one, and Aus-
tralia’s sympathy goes out to the sister
Dominion. But it has to be said that the
occurrence probably wears .a much more
horrifying aspect to outsiders than to the
Maorilanders themselves. Familiarity, with
them, has bred a large degree of contempt
for the forces under the earth, and there is
not likely to be any hurried exodus of
Fernlanders to quieter parts. Westland is
very sparsely populated. It lives on its
coalmines and memories of its days of gold.
The loss of life and property by earthquake
therefore cannot be comparable with that
which would be occasioned in even a
moderate-sized Australian town in the same
circumstances.
♦
Real Farms and Chinamen’s Gardens.
“J.E.”: In proportion to population Aus-
tralia tries to be the world’s biggest exporter
of surplus raw products, so that it may
pay for being the world’s biggest importer
of manufactured goods, most of which it
is quite able to make for itself. And three-
fourths or more of its exports can only be
grown, at a profit that will maintain the
alleged Australian standard of living, by
men with liberal 'areas, ranging up to
thousands of square miles. The small farm,
as the term is understood in Europe, doesn’t
fit where the principal exports are beef,
lamb, mutton, rabbits, live animals, skins
of many sorts, wool (£66,000,000 of it in a
year), timber, wheat and flour, etc. None
of these can be grown economically and on
a large scale in flower-pots, especially where
the carrying capacity of the land is one
jumbuck to ten acres. I left out butter,
because I suppose a cow may be kept in
the back garden, but I never owned a cow.
The small farm of France or Belgium is
really a dignified Chinaman’s garden with
a family on it. The agriculturist raises his
produce mostly for sale in the nearest big
town and for local use, and as there are 33
towns of over 50,000 population in France
—manufacturing France, a place about
two-thirds the size of N.S.W.—he hasn’t
far to go, and he spends an infinitesimal
proportion of his gross earnings in getting
there. The exports of France consist of
about 8 or 9 per cent, raw materials, in-
cluding timber (the country is one-fifth
forest). The rest are manufactures—silk
and cotton goods, chemicals, soaps, per-
fumes, iron and steel products, automobiles,
liquors, rubber articles, and many oddments.
Jaques Bonhomme has solved the prob-
lem of eloper settlement by having his cus-
tomers in the shape of a local artisan popu-
lation on his own doorstep, or occasionally
a few miles away in England, and by rigid
economy. When the Australian tries to do
the even comparatively small farm business,
and to lead a comfortable but deeply mort-
gaged existence, by importing far too much
of the manufactured goods which he should
make and exporting a vast quantity of his
“primary products” all over the earth, he
is in a different category. That difference is
one reason why he lives so continuously
in the foreign loan market that he might as
well take his bed there and stay the night.
♦ v
Hertzog the Winner.
The result of the South African elections
leaves the Dutch Nationalists with a clear
majority in the Lower House, although,
like the Labor party in Britain, they
are in an electoral minority. Natal
and the southern Cape districts, with the
big cities, Bloemfontein excepted, were in
favor of the South African party, mad'
up of the British and pro-Union Dutch
elements. The old republics of the Free
State and the Transvaal, backed by the


DOGBERRYVITCH DECIDES.
“There is a movement tn Russia, supported by Lunarcharsky, the Commissar of Education, and Stalin, who lacks education, to abolish the bourgeois handicaps of
grammatical rules and spelling.”
WATCHMAN: “He is the most frank villain that ever committed righteousness. He saith a verb must have a noun.”
DOGBERRYVITCH: “Why, this is flat burglary! O villain, thou wilt be condemned into everlasting redemption for this!”
young Boers, on whom the lessons of
1900-03 and 1914 have been wasted, went
whole-heartedly for Hertzog.
Since Hertzog became Prime Minister
five years ago he has done everything in his
power to weaken the hold of the non-
Dutch Afrikander on Union affairs. The
Civil Service and the military have been
seeded with Dutch sympathisers. It is not
long since all civil servants were called
upon to learn Afrikaans or quit, though it
would be difficult to find a Dutchman now-
adays, from the Cape to the Limpopo, who
does not speak English.
The young Nationalists make no secret
of their desire for ultimate secession from
the Empire, and their leader, though he
now professes to be content with Dominion
status, was preaching secession himself a
few years ago. This anti-British feeling is
evident everywhere. It is seen in the allot-
ment of large industrial contracts to Ger-
man firms, and in the preferential trade
treaty with Germany.
Much was made by the Nationalists of
the determination of the South African
party to maintain a section of the Cape
natives in those voting rights which they
enjoyed under the pre-Union Government,
and which were assured to them by the
Union constitution. This franchise did not
permit them to return native members to
Parliament, nor was any such right enjoyed
by the native races of the Free State or
Transvaal. A vivid picture, however, was
drawn of an extension of the vote to all
natives in the Union, including the sub-
sidiary protectorates of Zululand, Swazi-
land and Basutoland, as soon as these had*
qualified under the simple educational test
applying in the Cape. This distorted propa-
ganda undoubtedly helped the Nationalists.
The Senate, in which supporters of
Smuts predominate, is a brake on the vic-
torious party, and Hertzog may also be
restrained by the consideration that he does
not represent a majority of the electors.
South Africa is prosperous, but until unity
is added to prosperity its future must be
doubtful. Certainly two white races num-
bering rather less than If million, and
surrounded within their own territories by
six million blacks and Asiatics, cannot afford
the luxury of quarrelling with one another.
The Deadly Footboard.
Dear Bulletin, —For years the Tramway
Employees’ Association has been fighting
for the abolition of the deadly seven-inch
platform on Sydney trams. From July 1,
1927, to June 30, 1928 (latest figures avail-
able), 1228 passengers and 262 conductors
were injured in footboard accidents, with a
compensation bill of £10,323. The Workers’
Compensation Commissioners have begun
to charge the Tramways for sickness
directly attributable to the footboard. The
widow of Conductor C. Smith was awarded
the full death rate, her husband having died
from pneumonia due, as was shown, to a
drenching on a wet day.
The Commissioners have never made
finance the excuse for retaining the foot-
board. Their stock argument is that to do
away with it would mean “slow loading and
loss of seating capacity.” But if a cor-
ridor type makes for slow loading and dis-
charging I feel sorry for the ’bus interests
and the tramway services in every other
capital city. If the technical staff of the
service cannot produce a corridor car to
take the same loading as the present type
our union will pay an outside draughtsman
to design one.
The union has never advocated a drastic
change to the corridor car. All it asks is
that cars going to the Randwick workshops
for overhaul be converted. The question
is not whether we can afford the change-
over, but whether we can afford to keep the
footboard.—Yours, etc., Union Executive
Officer.
*
Defeating the J ury-squarer.
Premier McPherson hinted recently at an
amendment of the Victorian law which will
authorise Judges in criminal trials to accept
majority verdicts of 10 out of 12. The
reform is already working satisfactorily in
S. Aus., and it is bound to come eventually
in all the States.
When Blackstone laid it down that no
man’s life should be hazard except by the
unanimous verdict of 12 of his peers the
death penalty was liable to be imposed for
almost any offence. There were few dis-
agreements in the early part of the
eighteenth century. Jury-squaring was un-
known, and where the guilt of an accused
seemed clear the average Judge did not
scruple to say so. This is an age of edu-
cated, moneyed and often organised crimi-
nals, and, as a natural result, of professional
jury-squarers. It is an unlucky underworld
king who cannot get a disagreement in
three trials out of four, sometimes by
bribery, but oftener by persuasion or threats
directed at the juror who has been selected
as likely to be amenable to such methods.
In this way the truth of another great
English Judge’s dictum —that the delay of
justice is the denial of justice—is con-
tinually being proved, and particularly in
Victoria. Largely because of disagreements
the only two Victorian courts in which
criminal trials can be staged almost always
begin their sittings with large carry-over
lists. One unfortunate woman actually came
up for trial the other day nearly six months
after her committal.
There is no suggestion, of course, that
majority verdicts should be accepted in
capital cases. But an obvious corollary of
the change is that the death penalty should
be lifted for all crimes except murder.
At present in N. S. W T ales men guilty of,
for example, rape get off as a rule because the
nominal penalty is death, and because this
very fact gives the j ury-squarer a valuable
talking-point when he sets out to get a
disagreement.
_4
Was General McCay to Blame?
Dear Bulletin, —The difficulties which
“T.T.T.” (B. 5/6/’29) suggests in regard to
this matter arise largely from an insuffi-
cient understanding of the subject.
The question is not and never has been
whether McCay was or was not a Napoleon
—a military genius. The question is and
always has been simply this: Was he respon-
sible for ordering this attack upon an im-
pregnable position, in respect of which
service he was alleged to have volunteered
his division?
This question really resolves itself into
two points: (1) Was the position impreg-
nable? (2) Did he originate the order?
Regarding (1), every attack upon it
throughout the war failed. (See “British
Official History,” Vol. I, page 355, and else-
where.) •
Seeing that McCay was limited by his
orders to the use of six battalions (two per
brigade), under 6000 infantry, and that the
same limitation applied to the British
division on his right (making a total of,
say, 10,000 infantry); that his artillery sup-
port amounted to little more than his own
divisional troops; that the attack was over
the same ground as the previous British
failure; that nothing had occurred mean-
time to weaken the enemy’s position and
that an eminent and experienced member
of Haig’s staff had strongly reported against
the chance of success but had been over-
ruled by the super-optimist Haking, we
may pronounce judgment that the position
was for such forces impregnable.
As to (2), Bean’s answer is complete.
The order, the plan and the objective were
Haking’s; McCay was detailed simply to
carry it out. Such being the case, we need
go no further into the abstruse speculations
raised by “T.T.T.”
The idea that a soldier ( e.g a divisional
commander of experience) may protest
against an order emanating from a superior
is by no means new to military ethics.
“T.T.T.’s” ideas in this respect are in need
of clarification.
Fundamental, of course, to success in war
is discipline, the military rule of obedience.
But, as in most worldly affairs, the workable
way lies in some compromise between con-
flicting demands and their adjustment in
accordance with each situation.
It is quite evident that some originality,
enterprise and initiative are valuable quali-
ties and cannot be dismissed summarily as
hostile to discipline.
It is obviously more important for the
supreme commander to be endowed with
capacity to give full play to them than it
would be for an officer of comparatively
junior rank. At the bottom rung of the
ladder obedience tempered with intelligent
interpretation of orders comprehends the
major part of military duty and enables
the individual to efficiently fulfil his role.
The higher the ladder is mounted the less
is this emphasised, since there are fewer to
obey and more to lead, and no- leader can
perform his functions without capacity to
originate and to inspire.
It is true that Birdwood expected to be
treated by every subordinate as the capta' i
of the football XV of an English public
school expects to be treated by his fag.
and this made protests difficult. But there
were others. For example, Sir Charles
Harington (Plumer’s Chief of Staff) en-
couraged divisional commanders and even
brigadiers to voice their objections to any
task allotted to them and labored to remove
those objections, with the result that he
was rewarded by the admiration and con-
fidence of all who served under him. And
the right was not abused, as “T.T.T.” sug-
gests it might be. Every time a commander
protests he puts his reputation at stake;
and one who made a practice of protesting
upon being given any job, upon his fears
proving repeatedly groun’dless when they
were put to proof would speedily lose his
reputation for sound judgment. But the
resolute protest of a brave and capable
subordinate recorded against what he
honestly considers an impossible attack,
especially when it is known that he has
personally reconnoitred the position and
bases his opinion on the knowledge thus
gained against his superior who has not
had that opportunity, may cause the latter
to think deeply before he will overrule his
subordinate. A protest under such circum-
stances brings before him his full respon-
sibility.
Undoubtedly the superior has the right
to the final say and the subordinate must
in the last resort obey. In view, however,
of the fact that the recorded protest may
arise to damn him in the future, such an
action may act as a powerful deterrent
against a hasty and ill-considered deter-
mination to attack.—Yours, etc., X.X.X.
♦
The “Intermediate” Patient.
Dear Bulletin, —The plain statement of
his case by “Intermediate H.” is self-
illuminating (B. 12/6/’29).. He expended
his money unwisely and took an extra week
to do it.
From his statements he is obviously at
neither extreme of income. He aimed
straight at the cheapest way of obtaining
treatment and, not liking it, ended up with
the expensive way. For a man of middle
means, the first is dishonest, and it adds to
the overcrowding amongst those who can
afford less than he. The second is un-
necessary; he was indeed unfortunate if he
found a specialist who would not treat him
privately for a substantially reduced fee if
he had explained frankly his circumstances.
He remarks that at the public hospital he
had one minute of the specialist’s time. How
much of it did he expect with 100 wait-
ing? Also it was given to him gratis. He
paid for hospital service, and surely he
had enough of that! the
doctor had been there as long as he, not
waiting but working, probably against time,
and getting less out of it.
Would “Intermediate H.” not have saved
time, fatigue, pain, incidental expenses for
a week and added discomfort to 99 others if
he had naid a consulting fee of one to three
guineas in the first place, and trusted his
.specialist to see him through in the manner
r greed best for his bodily and financial
indisposition?—l am yours, etc., Collins
Street.


s§
mm . v#
■
j
w
sew
ssofc
Quick
Starring
For quick starting these cold mornings
One Quality throughout Australia
SHELL
MOTOR OIL
AND SPIR.IT
POLITICAL
POINTS
More of the bonds that Australia (N. S.
Wales and Queensland, as well as the Com-
monwealth) lately sold to TJnele Sam are
coming this way; and apparently Unc.
thinks so poorly of his bargain that lie is
selling his 100-dollar pieces of paper for a
few cents over 93 dollars—that was the, latest
figure. As the loan matures in 4 (-48. and
meantime carries 5 p.c. free of every Aus-
tralian income-tax, the return is over ±.> bs.
p.c. Which is a pretty straight tip from
Uncle that in his opinion 5* p.c. isn’t too
much to ask for the very best Australian
securities; and it is very doubtful whethei
he has anything to lend us even at that price.
When Abbott, the
Minister for Home
Affairs, reached Dar-
win after his flight in
the Canberra from
Sydney, he said:
“People have no con-
ception of the high
quality of the land in
the Territory. It was
like an oasis after
passing the drought-
stricken regions of
Western Queensland.”
A few remarks about
the crowd that wants
the Commonwealth to
divert the railway to
Darwin through West-
ern Queensland, in-
stead of honoring its
solemn agreement with
South Australia, would
have improved the
occasion; but Abbott’s
candor didn’t carry
him that far.
Abbott is
astonished.
Reckoning that the Bruce-Page Govern-
ment would agree to put another fourpence
a gallon on the petrol tax, as requested by
the States, the oil-importing firms withdrew
from bond 20,000,000 gallons in a week or
so. Their reckoning was all wrong, for
the Brtice-Pages decided against the in-
crease, so Page has had an unexpected
few hundred thousand knocked off his de-
ficit. A large piece of the additional revenue
came from Westralia, but removals from
bond were general throughout the Common-
wealth.
More than 30 respectable men have called
at Melbourne watchhouses during the cold
spell, and reported that they had smashed
something, or were willing to smash any-
thing, for a trifle of board and lodging.
It is a simple problem: What work is there
to give these people when our scrap of
population imports £100,000.000 worth of
goods in a year, and when strike promoters
are allowed to declare whole industries
"black,” in contempt of Arbitration Courts
and Governments and laws? The dismal
procession to Melbourne watchhouses may
be checked hy the agreement to end the
tragic business of the timber-workers’ strike;
but the settlement —if it is a settlement —does,
not extend to Sydney.
Opposition-leader Hill, speaking presum-
ably for the S. Aus. Labor party, got
The hysterical
Mr. Hill.
into hysterics the
other day, and de-
clared that if the
Common wealth
went out of the
arbitration business
it; would be break-
ing: a solemn cov-
enant with every
State. The Com-
monwealth when it
took the power to
legislate for arbi-
tration in disputes
extending beyond a
single State did
not take one par-
ticle of the States’
old power from
them. Moreover, if
Mr. Hill has ever
been a shareholder
in a co., he may
have noticed that
it has taken power
to do most things
o n heaven and
earth and in the
waters under the
- earth; and if Mr.
Hill wakes up one day and finds that the eo.
isn’t actually doing the lot, and howls that
it is, therefore, breaking a solemn covenant
with every shareholder—well, somebody will
certainly call him a silly ass.
The new Queensland Government, deter-
mined to cut the losses on the luckless ven-
tures of its predecessors, announces that
State runs carrying 130,000 to 1.40,000 head
of cattle are to be sold by auction. One of
them is Dotswood, noted for its grass and
water and its favorable situation. It is
near Charters Towers, is crossed by the
railway to Townsville, and the Ross Creek
and Alligator Creek meatworks, whence
carcases go direct into the freighters, are
only 50 or 60 miles away. It would seem
almost impossible for a property like that to
become a sink for money, but under Labor-
Socialism it did.
It has been estimated that every pound
of meat which the Government stations sup-
plied to the Queensland people during their
disreputable career lost the taxpayer 4d. The
prospect of finding buyers for the runs is
that each buyer will feel confident that he
knows how to be less of an ass than the
old proprietary was.
The Department of Civil Aviation received
three shocks when that number of skilled
aviators resigned, two (Captain E. F. Jones,
the deputy-controller, and Captain Follett)
to go to much better jobs. The plain fact
is that these men, who may be asked to risk
their lives a dozen times a day, have less
security of tenure than the civil servant who
sells stamps over a counter; and their pay
is nothing to write home about.
The N.S.W. Government has instructed its
Attorney-General to go ahead with a bill
withdrawing rural workers from the opera-
tion of the State arbitration law. It is a
shame that it should be necessary; yet it
probably is necessary. It is a plain confes-
sion that the arbitration system has broken
down; and since the wages and conditions
which the system has brought into being
cannot be maintained, the Government takes
the line of least resistance, and withdraws
the supposed benefits of the system from
those who can do least kicking in return.
The first effect will no doubt be to provide
jobs for hundreds of men who can’t get them
under existing awards; but, all the same,
they and thousands more will be paying for
the otherwise impossible wages and hours
of the city workers.
Either the daily papers are fools or
N.S.W. Ministers are cowards. Last week
even the S. M. Herald printed a report of
a meeting of the Sydney Labor Council. One
man said the police who had been protecting
free laborers would be “dealt with,” their
names having been taken; and a Judge
(named), who had sentenced men for a vio-
lent assault on timber workers, should be
“disciplined even though he was a Judge.
Either these meii are feckless fools who let
off hot air, in which case the papers ought
to disregard them, or they are representative
men who can do something, or get something
done, and whose speeches therefore deserve
and demand publicity; and in that case it
is up to the Government. A Government
which can’t protect its police and its Judges
even from threats, if they mean anything,
has no right to remain a Government.
A recent Sydney meeting of Nationalists
urged the Bavinshaw Ministry to “take dras-
tic action against disloyal foreign agitators
within the State.” Well, when Oakes was
Acting-Premier he took drastic action against
two much less harmful Irish agitators, and
shipped them back to their island, it being
competent for a State to do that, whatever
the constitutional difficulties of the Common-
wealth might be. If a new-born Buttenshaw
shipped Kavanagli and co. out of the country
by special ship which would call at no way-
side ports, the Commonwealth could at least
refuse them a landing when they tried to
drift back.
The disarmament discussion between the
United States and the British Empire is, in
the main, a demand that Britain will not
insist on having a larger navy than Uncle’s.
Britain has a homeland of about 100,000
square miles, and it has 13,000,000 square
miles of outside territory which must be
defended by sea for the sake of the U.K.’s
food supply. The U.S.A. has nearly 3,000,000
square miles of a homeland which supplies
everything, and 700,000 miles of non-contigu-
ous territory Avhieh doesn’t matter a straw so
far as necessary food supplies go. At a
complicated crisis the navy which is more
than sufficient for the United States might
be 50 per cent, too small for the United
Kingdom.
Acting-Premier Buttenhole (N.S.W.) has
hitched his finger in the Coal Commission’s
coat and asked it to find out first what
profit per ton various specified mines have
been making. Gepp knows mine figures as
well as any man in Australia; but if a
commission with even Gepp aboard can tell
what profit per ton a mine is making it will
be a very wonderful body. First of all,
profit isn’t the difference between what it
costs to break the coal and what you sell it
for. You probably have paid (say) £50,000
for the mine, and every ton you take out
makes your mine worth a fraction less. What
size that fraction is you don’t know because,
though you may have a fair idea of the
number of tons in the mine, you don’t know
how many of those tons you will be able to
profitably extract from the mine. Those
simple souls who think that profit is what
is left after you’ve paid for breaking and
hauling are responsible for much trouble.
U.S. Prohibitionist politicians broke new
ground when they requested that foreign
Powers would send along teetotal ambassa-
dors —men who wouldn’t exercise the pri-
vilege of importing liquor for embassy use.
They professed to regard the ambassadorial
residences at Washington as centres of moral
contamination, or sly-grog shops. The
British representative hastened to comply,
but the French representative refused to
leave off supporting his country’s wine in-
dustry. Information from other European
States is lacking. But one South American
republic is said to have concurred, with the
saturnine remark that the number of im-
portant people who called at the embassy
and had free drinks was a drag on the
rather weak finances.
Drakoford, M.L.A., recently named presi-
dent of the Vic. A.L.P. executive, has
Drakeford —
somewhat
embarrassed.
struck trouble
already. After the
batch of Assembly
pre-selection bal-
lots, there were the
familiar charges of
“ i r r e g u larities,”
and these were de-
clared to have been
proved in the case
of Clifton Hill. The
Clifton Hill branch
was ordered to hold
a new ballot. This
it has flatly refused
to do, saying that if
the executive
wants another bal-
lot it will have to
do the job itself.
One of the draw-
backs of an organi-
sation which
applauds defiance
oi authority when
the authority is a
Judge Beeby or
Lukin is that it
is apt to get disorganised.
It looks as if the Country Progs, will be
candid friends of the McPhersons when Vic.
Assembly resumes on July 3. Scanning the
Ministry’s programme, Dunstan complained
that it was as barren as a desert as regards
stabilisation of primary production, railway
utilisation, decentralisation and a lot ot
other ’shuns. The Cocky group is also in-
clined to be critical. It will depend on the
extent to which voting accompanies carping
whether the electors will get their innings
this year or next year. The present House
will witness no further change of Govern-
ment.
The average increase in unimproved land
values in Tasmania is reckoned at £750,000
a year. Federal
and State land
taxes take less than
£250,000. McPhee
is talking of hold-
ing an inquiry into
the question of
land taxation, but
whether with a
view to readjusting
the rates or doing
something drastie
to the methods of
assessing unim-
proved values is
not stated. A lively
newspaper discus-
sion of the subject
brought ex-Prcmier
Lewis out of his
retirement to re-
mind the public
that when Trea-
Elliott Lewis writes
to the papers.
surer in 1917 and again in 1920 (just be-
fore he quitted politics) he had strongly
urged the development of alienated land, in-
stead of forcing settlement back into the
wilds, and had shown that, whil# the interest
bill increased by 34.9 p.c. in five years, land-
tax collections increased by a mere 5.4 p.c.
The bricks are being warmed for Lacey,
M.H.R. for Grey (S.A.), and he will soon,
have to do some jumping. Broken Hill is
agitating for a continuation of the Sydney-
Barrier line to Port Augusta as part of the
East-West system. The route proposed
bisects Lacey’s electorate; it goes through
Cockburn and then strikes Carrieton, and
from that town on the people are enthuse
astic about it. But Peterborough and Pori
Pirie, both predominantly Labor, are hostile,
believing that the extension would deprive
them of Barrier trade. And, as if it won’t
be hard enough for Lacey to maintain his
balance between these district factions, the
cry has gone up from other quarters that
it would be a grand unemployed-relief work.
The public’s leg is easily pulled. Many
years ago tolls were collected on highways
and bridges. Then the people who had
vehicles kept saying that toll-gates and
toll-pikes were old-fashioned things that
were stumbling-blocks to free-trade and so
on, and the public swallowed the yarn, and
since then if you mention a toll you an
regarded as having come out of the Ark or
thereabouts. It is time the public realised
that its leg was pulled and that tolls are.
in fact, very sensible institutions. When a
man buys a hat he pays for a hat and not
a pair of trousers, and when he uses a roan
which has cost and still costs a lot of money
the sensible thing surely is to charge him for
the use of it, and not pay the bill out of, per-
haps, probate duty on the estate of a sea
captain who never was on the road in his
life.
New general-manager Davidson, of the
Bank of N.S.W., has published a small
treatise suggesting that Australia badly
wants a reserve bank and showing how it is
impossible for the Commonwealth Bank a-
at present constituted to do the job. As a
matter of fact it wasn’t designed to do the
job; if it had been it certainly wouldn’t
have been permitted to lend money on the
security of (1) landed property or (2)
municipal rates, etc., repayment spread over
a long period. A reserve bank must have
its funds in such a form that they can be
turned into cash for the support of other
banks on a few weeks’ notice at latest; and
almost every other country in the world has
such a bank —except Australia, which needs
it far more than most.
Somebody sells all these millions of
pounds’ worth of goods that come to this
country from the U.S.A. and other parts of
the world, and presumably these other parts
of the world don’t do it just because it
amuses them. It seems likely there is a
bit of profit somewhere in the business; and
how much does the Australian tax-gatherer
get of it? If the little factory at Surry
Hills makes a mouse-trap we know we will
be able to find out what the boss’s profits
►are and tax them ; but if lie goes to Con-
necticut, U.S.A., and employs Americans
instead of Australians to do the job, he
can invoice the mouse-traps to his agency
in Australia at whatever figure lie likes;
and he always likes to charge so much that
it won’t show any profit worth mentioning,
and therefore won’t pay any income-tax
worth mentioning. Canada bad the same
trouble, and now Canada has a sales tax.
It is worth looking into.
THE PROFESSOR’S PULL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Vie. Premier McPherson, speaking at a Melbourne
University function, contrasted the tranquil, placid
life of a professor with that of a worried and harassed
politician. Professors were always treated with
respect, whereas a woman at a recent meeting had
addressed him familiarly as ‘Little Willie.’ ”
Exult, you professorial crew,
You are lucky chaps if you only knew;
In tranquil spots are cast your lots
And your lines in pleasant places.
You have disrespectful names with the clans
No doubt, but you’re only Dreary Dans
And Cranky Jacks behind your backs,
Never before your faces.
You go your dignified ways serene,
Chancellor, lecturer, don and dean,
With none to gird at your spoken word
Or scoff at your erudition.
On every sentence it hangs, the class.
That is if it means exams, to pass,
Alert and tense —no audience
Like that for the politician.
Nothing you know of the angry roar
From some hoarse recalcitrant near the door,
Or the heckling yap from lips that snap
And snarl under brows that darken.
You’re never assailed by jeuso d’esprit
Like “Rats!” or “Give Us Yer Policy!”
Whenever you speak, in silence meek,
Your subjects needs must hearken.
You haven’t at times to turn your coats
To keep your jobs, or to smoodge for votes;
Time drones along for your cultured throng
In a measured, smooth legato.
You never are limned in crude cartoons
With visages that recall baboons,
Or swerve, half-shamed, from an egg well-
aimed
Or an over-ripe tomato.
No caustic editors roast your ribs,
And make you themes for lampoons and
squibs;
Scant stress or strife in your sheltered life,
Placid, aloof and stilly.
And as on the dais you take your stand,
No student conies with an outstretched hand
And a loud or shrill “What Ho! Big Bill,”
Or a “Cheerio! Little Willie.”
N.S.W.
T. The R.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Kerys”: It was 7 a.m. outside a bath-
room door of one of Sydney’s most popular
boarding-schools for boys, and a line of youths
were awaiting their turn. The matron has
to use the same bath as the masters and
some of the senior pupils, and this morning
she. was unduly long* over her ablutions. An
impatient dominie arrived and joined the
queue. “Is Matron still in the bathroom?”
lie asked. There was a moment’s pause;
then an obliging small boy came to the
rescue. “I’m not quite sure, sir,” he said
politely, “but I’ll see.” With that he bent
down and investigated the interior of the
bathroom through the keyhole. “It’s her.
sir,” he reported.
WHERE SILK STOCKINGS COME FROM.
MABEL: "Isn’t it wonderful to think that we girls get all these silk stockings and things
from poor little worms?”
BILLY: "Oh, they’re not all poor little worms—-some are quite rich and fat.”
“Merris”: An ex-Attorney-General of an
Australian State recently lectured in the
cause of Peace. “I know our chairman,”
he mentioned in the course of his remarks,
“perhaps a great deal better than he knows
me, for when I was a Digger in France
he was my commanding officer. On one occa-
sion he had cause to deal with me for a
dereliction of duty. It is unnecessary to
say what I was doing, but, at any rate, I
wasn’t being really keen on my job when
the C.O. intervened.” “Ladies and gentle-
men,” said the chairman later, when convey-
ing the vote of thanks, “despite our lecturer’s
extreme modesty, I feel I must share his
secret with you. I claim to be the only
officer in the Great War who had the d’s-
tinction of ticking off an ex-Minister of the
Crown for playing two-up!”
"It.V.”: It will be possible in a month
for a person to take liis photograph to the
G.P.0., Melibourne, where a payment rang-
ing from £1 19s. to £3 7s. 6d. will enable
the goods to be placed in the hands of his
girl in Sydney within a half-hour or so.
The actual transmission of each element of
a picturegram will take no longer than that
of an ordinary telegram, but there will be
an enormously larger number of “impulses,”
so that the reproduction at the other end will
take some little time to grow under the
electric pen. The fact that the thing could
be done was known 20 years ago; the diffi-
culty was to get the instruments at each
end to synchronise so perfectly that the
copy would be as sharp as the original.
One of the minor advantages of the new
system will be to make it possible for foreign
languages which do not use the English
alphabet to be employed telegraphically.
Chinese, for instance, are obliged to use pidgin-
Engl.sh or a code composed of groups of
figures which have to be translated with the
aid of a codebook. If the person addressed
hasn’t got a codebook difficulties occur.
* * * *
“Secar”: A lot of unreliable evidence is
given, in perfect good faith, about street acci-
dents, women being the worst offenders. I
was in a Brisbane tram recently when it hit
a car: little damage was done, but a traffic
jamb followed. A woman on the tram com-
menced to rate the driver of a near-by car
for having caused the trouble. Another
woman soon joined in, and between the down-
right pair I wondered what chance the poor
chap would have stood in a law court. Actu-
ally. he hadn’t arrived until after the
collision.
* # * *
“D.” : The great moment of the late Bram-
well Booth’s splendid life came 44 years ago,
when lie helped W. T. Stead, of the Pall Mall
Gazette, to stage “The Maiden Tribute.”
Ever since the eighteenth century London
had been notorious as a headquarters of the.
trade in girl-children. The Victorians
wou’dn’t mention the scandal in the press or
in Parl'ament, and the business seemed safe.
Booth and Stead formed the plan of buying
a girl of 13. Stead stayed with her (in all
innocence, of course) ; and then Booth had
her tak'n to Paris by a Salv’army lass, and
Stead wrote up the story in his paper. They
were tried for abduction at the Old Bailey,
and Stead was convicted. For years they
were the most lampooned and derided pa ; r in
England (chiefly because Stead’s journalistic
methods and Booth’s religious methods were
too unconventional for the age), but they
achieved their purpose. The age of consent
was fixed at 16. and white-slavery became a
discussable question.
* * * *
“Fourwalls”: The crystal chandelier re-
cently unearthed from the cobwebbed vaults
of Parliament House, Melbourne, and hung
in the library (B. 12/6/’29), was one of
six, three of which were stored away under-
ground. It is a pity that the remaining two,
beautiful pieces of work, should remain in
the dungeon. These chandeliers originally
cost £lOOO each. The marble statue of Queen
Victoria is Parliajnent House’s most valu-
able treasure. It cost £3500.
* * * *
“Spare Corp.” : Mention of the increase in
clurches-ia-fcmme casualties when the Navy
drops into port (B. lfi/6/’29) recalls the
uneasiness of the A.I.F. authorities when-
ever warships put into Portland Harbor. The
Diggers in the four A.I.F. invalid camps
scattered around Weymouth regarded them-
selves as having first claim on the femininity
of the area, and resented the intrusion of
trespassers: but the worst trouble occurred
when a British warship and two American
ones arrived at the same time. The British
Jack Tars, many of them back in their own
homes for a rare spell, were so annoyed at
the Yankees coming into the lady-killing
lists that they even welcomed Aussie assist-
ance ; and there were brawls at every street
corner and bandaged heads in every hospi-
tal. But convalescing Diggers had other
rivals beside naval ones. After the Armistice
there was an incursion of released prisoners
of war whose pay had banked up during
their internment in Germany; Avell-cashed-up,
they burgeoned into tailor-made uniforms
which made everyone of them look like offi-
cers. This was regarded as an unfair advan-
tage, and the news that one of them had
stolen an impecunious Digger’s sheilah was
always sufficient to start a fight.
* * * *
“Hamer”: The Electoral Department gets
frequent headaches over the prevalence of
certain names. Recently it pursued a Wol-
longong (N.S.W.) man named William
Campbell and his wife, Catherine, for voting
twice. It transpired that there were in the
subdivision two William Campbells, each
married to a Catherine, although the names
had only been enrolled once, some clerk evi-
dently regarding the applications as a dupli-
cation. Both pairs had voted, as they were
perfectly entitled to do; the charge launched
by the department was withdrawn, and the
Campbell who had been brought to the court
promised compensation for his lost time. A
block of Darlinghurst flats provided some-
thing that looked even less capable of ex-
planation. An officer was sent to inquire
how there were three separate applications
for votes from couples named William and
THE TRICE OF PEACE.
"Yes, old chap, I had to hand out forty quid yesterday for a
fur coat for the wife."
"Gee, that ought to keep her warm!”
"My troubles about keeping her warm ! What I want to do is
to keep her quiet.”
Mary Smith, the William in each case being
described as “salesman.” He found an
authentic three pairs in the building, all
unrelated.
=l= ' =l= * *
“Hugh Stone”: An old Newcastle
(N.S.W.) landmark is threatened with demo-
lition —the tower on the hill that was the
port’s leading light when ships sailed into
Newcastle through a channel s.-w. of Nobby’s.
The municipal authorities declare that the
ancient structure is an obstacle to street-
widening operations, and that the new
entrance makes it superfluous; but the New-
castle Australasian Society is protesting
against the destruction of a memory of the
days when windjammers came for coal car-
goes by the score.
*. * * *
“M.L.F.”: “Avon” (B. 29/5/’29)
writes a little hazily about the
Taylor unclaimed millions. Peter
Taylor was a Scotchman who tied
up his pile in Dutch bonds for 100
years to prevent his brothers get-
ting any of it. There are claimants
in Maoriland, but the.re were, until
recently, many more in South Aus-
tralia, and not a few in W.A. All
the Australian would-be beneficiaries
trace their descent through the
maternal side of the Taylor family,
and when the husband of one of
the M.E. claimants went to Eng-
land to investigate his wife’s
chances he had no difficulty in
satisfying himself that only the
descendants of Peter Taylor’s
brothers were in the running, the
testator’s sisters’ children having
been ruled out. The M.L. claimant’s
mother was a Taylor, and has left
many descendants. Whether or. not
these can substantiate their claims.
the Australian crowd have given up hope
of ever obtaining a bean.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: In deriding those Sydney
flat-builders who bestow the title of “court”
on their edifices (B. 12/6/’29). “Pomegran-
ate” falls into error himself. The word
applies in England not only to the “slum
warren” of which he writes, but to many
of the greatest and most magnificent man-
sions, such as Cardinal Wolsey's splendid
palace of Hampton Court on the Thames. A
court is almost any building erected entirely
or in part round an open central space, like
the Norman castles and the great Tudor
manors. The word came to mean any de-
fined enclosure, such as a tennis “court,” and
when lawn tennis arrived it borrowed for
its playing area the ancient name applied to
the elaborate buildings in which the royal
game was played.
* * * *
“Mells”: When a Melbourne suburban
mayor recently introduced William Mc-
Pherson to a packed hall as “the Prime
Minister” he was corrected by several loud-
voiced precisians. Possibly he deserved to
be, and yet, as far as dictionaries go, a
Prime Minister and a Premier are one and
the same thing. Either term may be, and is,
applied to Ramsay MacDonald with perfect
propriety. And in pre-Federation days the
head of the Government of every Australian
colony was sometimes spoken of by one
title and sometimes by the other. But when
a national Government arrived it seems to
have occurred to somebody, or possibly to
a lot of people at once, that the longer and
more imposing word should be strictly re-
served for Barton and his successors, and
that the lesser fry should be derated, as it
were. It was just one of those changes
which come about, nobody knows how, tor
reasons that are accepted as adequate. And
if confusion is avoided thus, perhaps it is
no great matter that etymology is defied.
* * *
“Newport”: Many a Digger learned some
of the first principles of strategy in Liver-
pool (N.S.W.) camp during the early days
of the war. I still
recall the first occa-
sion when I ap-
proached the auto-
crat in charge of
the training squad-
ron with the de-
ferential request:
"Sergeant, may I
have leave for the
week-end ?” From
his reply I gathered
that the bare sug-
gestion was out-
rageous when the
Empire was at
death-grips w i 11)
the rest of the
wor 1 d, and the
absence of a single
soldier from his
post might throw
the whole organisa-
tion of the army
into a state of
chaos. I -also
learned something
of the sergeant’s
unflattering opiniou
on my appearance
and cleanliness, and
of his heartfelt
sympathy for my
parents before I
was detailed to a
road - repairing
fatigue. Later I
was initiated into
another way to set
about obtaining
leave. It was sim-
plicity itself. Just
a bottle of whisky
placed under the
sergeant’s pillow
during his absence
ind a written appli-
cation for the de-
sired leave present-
ed to that worthy
accompanied by the
formula “Thei'e’s a
baby under your
pillow, Sarge.” But
even in those days
whisky was au ex-
pensive item, and
it was much
cheaper and just as effective to watch some
other aspirant deposit the “baby” and beat
him to the sergeant!
* * * *
‘‘Cwrw Bach”: For the information of
“Oxmead” (B. 12/6/’29), broccoli is a
variety of cauliflower sown in summer or
autumn in cold countries so that it may
mature in winter, when almost every other
vegetable is unobtainable. Cauliflowers in
Australia take the place of broccoli in Eng-
land, i.e., they mature and grow through the
winter. Since broccoli wouid have to be
sown in the summer, it is not possible to
grow them successfully here, except, perhaps,
in mountain districts cr in Tasmania.
* -1: * *
“R.”: Newspapers frequently acclaim the
cleverness of detectives in apprehending
criminals, but to get the opinion of the
persons most concerned you need only spend
an hour in the prisoners’ waiting cell at any
city courthouse. I once put in a half-day
waiting for a £2O bondsman, and was enabled
to read on the walls information about
every active sleuth in the State, based on
the knowledge or opinion of those who had
been brought into close contact with them.
The sergeant in charge told me that one “de-
mon” made a point of frequently visiting the
cell to read the latest testimonials to the
activities of the Investigation Department.
# * * #
“Mulyan” : Brisbane Museum, which saved
the ’plane in which Bert Hinkler made his
solo flight across the world, is assuming the
appearance of an old curiosity shop. Among
its gatherings are the last mail coach of Cobb
and Co., which ran between Yeulba and
Surat (Q.), and the half of a ship’s tank
which was used as a beche-de-mer boiler on
Lizard Island, and in which Mary Watson,
her baby and a wounded Chinaman made
their wonderful but tragic voyage to the
Howick Islands. The coach will some day
go to Canberra; but Brisbane has other not-
able vehicles to take its place, and the last
horse-cab is sure to join the collection. Some
years ago the Museum was offered two
famous wheelbarrows—one that was trundled
across the State and right into W.A. by a
fossicker, and another that was wheeled from
the Far North into the dry regions back of
Alice Springs, where the wheeler perished.
* * * *
“Bill O’C”: Who won the war? I have
just encountered some evidence on the sub-
ject in Madison-square, in the heart of Noo
Yoick. It takes the form of a monument
on a granite base bearing the inscription:
“To commemorate the first homecoming of
the victorious Army and Navy of the U.S.”
On all the abutments of the base the vic-
tories ai'e recorded in large letters thus:
“Montdidier-Noyon, Meuse-Argonne, Somme
Offensive, Somme Defensive, Aisne-Lys,
Ypres-Lys, Champagne-Marne, Aisne-Marne,
Oise-Aisne, Cambrai, St. Mihiel, Vittorio
Veneto.” Apparently there was not a soli-
tary detached Yank at such disturbances as
Gallipoli, Jordan Valley, Kilimanjaro and
Przemysl, or else there have been unaccount-
able omissions. Of course the inscriptions
do not allege that Uncle Sam’s fighters
achieved all those victories single-handed,
but posterity may place that assumption on
them.
THE MAIN TRUNK LINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Over leagues of singing wire I had sought my
heart’s desire,
My affinity, the lady of my choice;
I’d a message to deliver, and o’er plain and
range and river
Came the well-remembered music of her
voice.
Past the singing of the she-oak and the pine,
Through city streets and crowded city
square,
Came the calling down the Main Trunk Line,
“Are you there? Are you there? Are
you there?”
Nigh she came to me and nigher as I listened
at the wire,
And hearkened to her greeting all alone.
Like a softly-falling petal, down the thou-
sand miles of metal,
Came the welcome floating to me from
mine own.
And the wite ceased its talk of mart and
mine,
And wherefore of such matters should it
care
When she’s calling down the Main Trunk
Line,
“Are you there? Are you there? Are
you there?”
It was mine by right of hire was the sym-
pathetic wire,
And politics and commerce were denied,
With the news of wool or weather (as we
twain were linked together),
Of drought or death or sorrow pushed
aside.
And the linking wire listened at her sign.
And signalled to the traffic “Have a care!
For she’s calling on the Main Line,
‘Are you there? Are you there? Are
you there?’ ”
Though man was aye a liar, as I heard her
down the wire
I registered a fervent, silent vow,
To the all discreet receiver, that I’d never,
never grieve her
(And at the time I meant it, anyhow).
Of the little peccadilloes and the wine,
Of various other failings, O beware!
She is calling down the Main Trunk Line,
“Are you there? Are you there? Are
you there?”
N.S.W.
E.W. O'BRIEN.


“M.G.S.”: Tlie cabled story of a Ser-
bian witch who gave love potions to the
wives of six healthy landowners so that they
could revitalise their husbands’ affections, the
result being that the six wives. became
widows, is a reminder that these philtres are
dangerous things to play with. They are
usually made from secret herbs which grow
on blasted heaths, and can only be obtained
at midnight by operators who must keep
their fingers crossed and look steadily over
their left shoulders while searching. . Under
these circumstances almost anything is likely
to happen. It did to my friend Blatliersome,
a hitherto perfect respectable road engineer
in Borneo. The district officer was fat and
alcoholic, and his wife grew tired of him
and regrettably attached to Blatliersome. As
Blathersome gave her no encouragement, she
FAMILY HISTORY.
"Mummy, what does daddy do when he isn’t home?”
“Oh, daddy's a taxidermist, dear.”
“Is he, Mummy? Where’s his garage?”
sought the aid of the Malay amah who
nursed her infant. The amah promised to
help, and mixed a love potion which the
D.U.’s wife slipped into Blathersome’s
whisky. The result was a splendid tribute
to the efficacy of love potions in-general, for
Blathersome, from being a retiring and
modest sort of chap, suddenly began to take
an interest in Woman. But this gave no
satisfaction whatever to Mrs. District Officer,
who, had she known as much about love
potions as her .amah, would have been care-
ful to mix the draught as well as give it.-
For eventually Blathersome got a transfer to
another district, and on the same day Mrs.
I). O. lost a perfectly good amah.
... }J; jjc jfc
“D.R.0.”: Queer names? Turning over
a batch of Commonwealth (south of
the Murray) rolls held by a returning-
officer friend, I noticed the name Heaven,
and was pleased to see that the owner
•was a sky-pilot. There was less appro-
priateness in finding a Wesley who gave
his occupation as a publican. When I
encountered Isippi I couldn’t help wonder-
ing if he had an unmarried daughter and if
she were used to being riverised so markedly
when addressed. Sheridan’s Lady Snearwell
was almost outclassed by a Sneezewel}, and
Kisshere seemed a cognomen with possibili-
ties. Ratz and Katz were intriguing, and
there was a pleasant ring about Portwine.
And Golightly’s name assuredly fitted his
vocation —he was a decorator.
* * * :jt
“D.”: Trotsky, now of Constantinople, and
A 1 (“Scarface”) Capone, the Chicago gang-
ster, are anxious to settle in London- —a high
tribute to the English police. At present tney
are liable at any time to be assassinated. Trot-
sky is making his approach through Prime
Minister MacDonald, and Capone, who has
been offered a partnership in a Soho night
club, is arguing, by proxy, with the immi-
gration authorities. But their chances are
slim. Before the war Soho and the East l'ud
were full of revolutionaries and thugs; “Das
Ivapital” was written in the first, and the
battle of Sidney-street was fought in the
second. Now foreign malefactors are ruth-
lessly barred, and even German and Italian
waiters who once did much of the nation’s
hotel work are rationed, and closely scrutin-
ised for character.
H« Jjc
“Uramao”; To stall off inquisitive idlers
who waste the workers’ time asking super-
fluous questions, a North Island (M.L.) local
body has adopted a novel plan with some
drainage excavations it has in hand. A
printed placard placed in a conspicuous posi-
tion shows the plan of operations, and supple-
ments it with the following information :
“This tunnel is 76ft. long. This hole is
17ft. deep. This tunnel will be finished in
four weeks if curious people will accept this
intimation and do not seek confirmation from
the workers.”
* * * *
“Meteren”: Though provision was made
in pay-books for a will (B. 12/6/'29), such
a small percentage of Diggers troubled to
record their final wishes that in 1917 a
special Army form was passed round with
orders that it was to be completed and returned
to Headquarters. The object was to prevent a
conflict of claims from the original next-of-
kin in Australia and legatees of later date
in Blighty and elsewhere. Thousands had
never previously bothered about a will, be-
lieving deferred pay was their only worldly
asset; a war gratuity in those days didn’t
even get mention in the furphy list. I remem-
ber one Digger of this type passing in his
will form when compelled to, and being sum-
moned to Orderly Room on the ground that
the document required further explantion.
The testator had contented h'mself with men-
tioning that he had no particular fancy as
a legatee, in fact didn’t cotton on to any of
his relatives or sheilas, but included them
all in the document so that the witches could
fight it out among themselves.
* * * *
“Flagwagger”: There were many ways of
obtaining promotion, but the smartness which
resulted in a fellow-signaller’s first lift always
struck me ns unique. From September to
the Evacuation our battalion and another
took turns to gar-
rison Lone Pine;
and, among other
things a few of us
sigs. attended to a
telephone situated
in a cosy dug-out.
Almost opposite
was the burrow of
a company 0.C.,
and when thin sis
were quiet he would
remain under-
ground reading and
sipping rum- He
developed a pecu-
liar habit; when-
ever a shell ex-
ploded on or near
our sector he would
call to the signal-
ler at the tele-
phone, “Was that
one of ours or
theirs, Signaller?”
and we’d answer to
the best of our
ability; At last
a fed-up cobber
got his chance. A
“broomstick” bomb
exploded near the
mouth of the O.C.’s
burrow, and as the
officer removed a
quantity ot Turk-
ish territorv fr m
his eyes and mouth
the signaller loudly
announced, “That
was on of theirs,
sir.” The O.C. saw
the humor and be-
came interested in
the humorist; he
interviewed the sig-
nalling officer, and
soon after my cob-
ber was promoted
a “buckshee” cor-
poral. This proved
the first of many promotions, and he returned
home a lieutenant. Incidentally, the ChC.
never put his stock question again.
% ♦ ♦
“Huggins”: In Melbourne soup kitchens
have been established in the poorer districts.
In one denominational school the mistress
in charge of a very junior class called on
children to fall out for their ration. The
first toddler to accept her invitation was the
son of a leading publican. “But, Charley,”
she said, “this is only for the poor children
whose fathers are out of work.” _ Charley,
however, was equal to the occasion. “My
father doesn’t go to work, Miss,” he assured
her.
* * * *
“Baomata”: Scorpion-fighting was one of
our few recreations in tbe Jordan V alley,
and Bluey and Robbo, of the Anzac
Mounteds, were the joint owners of a real
champion in Jericho Jostler. _ M henever
a halt was called dozens of Diggers would
congregate to extract their from tobacco-
tins and set them in the fighting-ring; and
they could fight, too. When the venomous
little beasts get angry their tough scales
s.tui to u come iiiii.itcd ; tlien me com
batants rush at each other and battle to the
death. I have seen some epic struggles and
a lot of money changing hands oyer these
duels. But Jericho Jostler soon estab-
fished such a reputation that his owners
could hardly get a match. They had done
uncommonly well out of him aud wer
keeping him quiet for a spell, when we
struck some abandoned stores, and the pair
were placed oh guard. There was rum in two
of the cases, and Robbo and Bluey smelt it
out. By the second night they wore both
jimjammy when Bluey took out Jericho to
SHE’D PLAYED THE GAME.
BILKING: “Seems to me a stupid term—‘love.’ What do they use that for in lennis?"
MRS. B. ( bored stiff): “Ooh—because of the net, I suppose.”
do battle. Suddenly lie mistook bis pet for
a vicious fantcd, and ended its career with
the heel of his boot. When he recovered his
right senses his grief was pitiful, but he
and his partner had a week in clink to get
over the mourning period.
* * * *
“Hayband” : Opportunity doesn’t need to
rap twice at this man’s door. As soon as
he heard that Sydney was short of gas, and
that the shortage might continue, he bought
up 300 primus stoves at cut rates. Then,
with a tin of kerosene for demonstration
purposes, he went to work in the afflicted
suburbs. He got rid of 200 that same day,
and, though gas was restored, people took
the other 100 next day “just in case.” He
averaged 3s. profit, and thus netted £45 for
two days’ work.
* * * *
“P.”: A quaint example of the way the
war-born craze for regimentation is spread-
ing was given in Victoria the other day
when someone calmly advocated the destruc-
tion of every Alsatian dog in the Common-
wealth. Whether Alsatians are more dan-
gerous than other dogs is doubtful. They
have formed the biggest class at the great
Crystal Palace show in London for years,
and there are thousands of them in Germany,
which suggests that those who know them
best fear them least. But in any case,
this idea that it is the business of the
State to grab the cherished property of.
individuals and dispose of it in the alleged
interests of the majority is the reduction
of democratic government to insanity. If
carried to its logical conclusion as regards
domestic animals the scheme would result in
a holocaust. Dog-phobia is commoner in
respect of Poms, and Pokes_ (which are
accused of disseminating hydatids and other
diseases) than of Alsatians; and cat-pliobia,
from which Lord Roberts suffered, is the
most widespread of all these animal-hatreds.
« * He *
“Sir Spen”: Despite Latin proverbs to the
contrary, the Law sometimes makes an
almighty fuss over trifles. A lady at South
Kensington (Sydney) was recently notified
that her cottage wall was only 2ft. llin.
instead of the regulation 3ft. from the divid-
ing-wall, wherefore it became necessary for
her to purchase an additional frontage of
one inch from an adjoining holder. There
was a freehold title to the adjoining land,
but, as it was originally acquired from the
Crown as a Suburban Holding Purchase, the
parties were obliged to go through all the
formalities of obtaining the consent of the
Minister for Lands before they could put
through the transfer.
* Hi * *
“Thirdovaquid” : The ways of the Law are
devious. One day last week two men, charged
with having been concerned in an attempted
assault upon a man who dared to work in
a Sydney timber mill, were directed by tli ir
solicitor to disobey the Court to the extent of
refusing to enter the dock, on the ground that
they had been “improperly arrested.” When
the magistrate insisted that they must climb
into the pen and they had been pushed in by
a constable the accused, evidently acting on
the advice of their solicitor, refused to open
their lips. The evidence in support of the
charge was inconclusive and inconsistent,
and °they were discharged. Nothing hap-
pened to the lawyer who had been respon-
sible for their attitude. About the same
time in a civil case before the High Court;
a South Australian Government employee
submitted meekly that he couldn’t produce
certain documents because his departmental
Minister wouldn’t let him. Committal to
gaol for contempt was his portion.
* * * *
“C.”; The centenary of Charles Sturt’s
histor'eal boat voyage down the Murray has
reminded Legacy Club members at Canberra
that the great explorer nearly became a resi-
dent of the place. Sturt, following his great
inland voyage, was granted land by the Gov-
ernor of the day. He went to Yarralumla,
then owne4 by one of the Campbells, for a
spell after his labors, and stayed at the ole
homestead on the banks of the Molonglo (the
Governor-General’s headquarters nowadays)
for about a month. Meantime he looted
about him and selected Belconnell, a station
on the borderline of the I cderal leriitcry,
as the place for taking up his grant. Hut
he never went into occupation, selling it
instead. To commemorate the explorers
sojourn in what is now federal Territory,
the Legacy Club is seeking permission to
erect a cairn on the banks of the Molonglo,
just below Yarralumla homestead. The club
is hopeful that its example will stir someone
to a similar effort near Lake George, whence
Sturt began his journey down the Murrum-
bidgee and the Murray to the sea.
$
“Euroa”: Saw a quick bit of work in
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, recently. A cable
tram had just crossed Bourke-street when an
old lady was seen walking unconcernedly in
the centre of the track ahead of it. There
was no hope of pulling up in time, and the
gripman yelled, but to no effect. The con-
ductor, who was collecting fares on the
dummy, was more resourceful. He jumped
to the front, leaning forward as far as he
could, and brushed the pedestrian off the
line. She escaped by inches.
* * * *
“Taxi”: A recent cable mentioned the sale
in London for 600 guineas of a stuffed great
auk, the huge fowl believed to be as extinct
as the dodo of Mauritius and the moa of
Maoriland. Live birds have not been seen
for over 70 years, and there are very few
stuffed specimens extant. Indeed, it is
shrewdly suspected that some of these are
forgeries, built up from the skeletons and
feathers of penguins and other birds with a
family resemblance. The things are so valu-
able in the eyes of their infatuated owners
that a close examination of doubtful speci-
mens is of course impossible. The eggs in
existence are even more dubious. Fragile
porcelain is said to have been employed in
the manufacture of some of these cherished
possessions. Here, of course, examination is
even more out of the question than with the
alleged birds, investigators being able to view
the exhibits only through a glass-case darkly.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: The proportion of
females to males in the First Fleet was so
small that Governor Phillip’s original in-
structions directed him to notify the com-
manders of the Sirius and her tender that
“whenever they touched at any of the islands
in those seas” they should take on board
as many of the native women as felt dis-
posed to accompany vhem. But when the
infant little settlement struck hard times
from the beginning and famine threatened,
we find the Governor advising the Imperial
authorities in his first dispatch that “the
very small proportion of females makes the
sending out of an additional number abso-
lutely necessary; for I am certain your Lord-
ship "will think that to send for women from
the Islands, in our present situation, would
answer no other purpose than that of bring-
ing them to pine away in misery. 1 ’ It
would almost seem that Phillip was more
sympathetic towards the Polynesian ladies
than to the white women he desired to have
sent out; but, all things considered, it is
perhaps just as well for Australia that he
happened to be in that frame of mind.
* * * *
“Buntline”; I have encountered some hard
swearers in the course of a long life at sea,
but I never met the equal of the mate of the
barque I served my time with. He seldom
gave an order or a reproof without profanity.
One day. when some of the watch were
making for the sail-locker, bowed beneath the
weight of a spare upper-topsail, one of the
lads kicked a ringbolt with his bare toes
and relieved his feelings with a “Gripes!’
Promptly the mate’s head popped up over
the sail-locker hatch-coaming. “Here, not so
much of that cripes!” chided our
monitor. On another occasion, the ship being
alongside a wharf, the captain’s wife was
entertaining a few of her lady friends at
afternoon tea. The wind piped up from off-
shore, so the mate got the crowd to point the
yards up, and wishing to get us back as soon
as possible to our bilge-cleaning, he began
to encourage us a little, regardless of a couple
of the guests having come on deck to watch
the “line of sailors pulling on a long rope.’’
“Come on, put your : —backs into it!’
he roared. “Haul away, that beautiful crimson
lower-delicate-topsail brace there!” “Oh.
Mr. Backstay,” remonstrated one of the girls,
“you are using awful language !” “Was. I?
said Mr. Backstay half-incredulous, halt-
abashed. “Well, I’m 1”
LAWLESS JIM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The nicest man I ever saw
Was most unlucky with the Law.
He had no criminal intent,
But clashed with it where'er he went.
His name was .Janies Augustus Bent.
At nine he landed in a mess
Because his pup was collarless.
At ten, though his oft'enpe was small
(He’d trespassed searching for a ball),
They summoned him to court and all.
At twenty, though by now discreet,
He dropped a cig.-butt in the street,
No misdemeanor, so to speak,
But looked on sourly by the Beak
(Fined twenty shillings or a week).
Embittered now by Fortune’s slings
He turned his mind to fouler thiugs;
Bought smokes at hours the Law forbade,
Illicit garden bonfires made
And bets with S.l‘. gentry laid.
Agreeably surprised to find
That to such pranks the Law is blind,
H'e goes his vicious way with vim—
All laws are null and void to him,_
Known far and wide as Laivless Jim.
The climax to his life of crime
Gomes in a bitter winter-time.
The Law has said that gas may be
Used but for breakfast and for tea._
“Ha ha!” laughs Lawless Jim, “we’ll see!’’
His kiddies three he posts as scouts
To watch the country thereabouts
Lest the accurst police capsize
His last nefarious enterprise.
A dish of fish and chips he fnes!
At 3 p.m. the scent divine
Wafts to a nose, alert, malign.
Sounds forth a whistle, stern and shrill,
Large boots come thudding up the hi 11....
A shot a groan and all is still.
N.S.W.
HYRAM.


National
Broadcasting Service
SUPPLIED BY
THE AUSTRALIAN BROADCASTING
COMPANY
Incorporating the Broadcasting Organisations of
Union Theatres Ltd., Fullers Theatres Ltd.
and J. Albert & Son.
2FC and 2BL SYDNEY—3LO and 3AR MELBOURNE.
The Directors of the Australian Broadcasting Company are desirous that all PRO-
FESSIONAL AND SEMI-PROFESSIONAL VOCAL OR INSTRUMENTAL
OR OTHER ARTISTS, CHORAL SOCIETIES, CHOIRS, BANDS, OR-
CHESTRAS, MUSICAL ASSOCIATIONS, LECTURERS, ELOCUTION-
ISTS, ACTORS, etc., should have an opportunity of being used for the NATIONAL
BROADCASTING SERVICE in addition to others already available for the Service,
and invite all persons with talent or associations of interest covering the above to cut out
and fill in the following form and FORWARD IT TO THE AUSTRALIAN
BROADCASTING COMPANY, BOX 1904, G.P.0., MELBOURNE, or BOX
1609 8.8., SYDNEY.
The Directors realise that with the new era in Broadcasting, all Artists will feel in common
with the Directors that their highest aspiration will be to Broadcast through the National
Broadcasting Service and thus serve the interests of the community as a whole.
THE
Australian -Broadcasting' Company
PROGRAMME DEPARTMENT. ARTIST INFORMATION FORM.
Name and Address
. . . . Phone No
Professional Name
Class of Work
Particulars Broadcasting Experience (if any)
When available for Audition
Fee for Broadcast desired
Available Locally Only or Inter-State
NOTE: Any information supporting or enlarging on above may be attached to this form, but should, if
possible, be typed on paper the size of the form to facilitate easy filing.
Bulletin 26/6/’29.
Prepare for the New Era in Broadcasting'
by securing' your set and taßing' out a
licence immediately!


DIAMOND RINGS
Gems of flawless quality in hand-fashioned settings.
Jism&i&M
9)
m
AA
■A-:l
&I 5
Is
FAIRFAX
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney.
& ROBE RT S,
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
Follow the
'Chart
m i
1 v*
mm
TiXACO keeps your engine dean.
BUY FROM THE TEXACO VISIBLE OIL
SERVER BOTTLE, AND ENSURE:
Freedom from carbon
Clean Valves and Spark Plugs
Protection against heat and wear
Economy in consumption
High compression . and more
power
TEXACO
CLEAN-CLEAR-GOLDEN
MOTOR OIL
PERSONAL
ITENS
Some July birthdays :
High-Commissioner Ryrie, 64, and Prof. Heinzs
(Melb. Uni.), 35, on Ist; W.A. Gov. Campion, 09,
Theo Fink (Melb. Herald), 74, musician Fred
Bevan (Adel. Uni.), 73, and Arthur Blakeley, M.H.R.,
43, on 3rd; Speck’s Premier MePhee, 51, on 4th;
Justice Piper (S. Aus.), 64, and Rev. Bickersteth,
M.C. (St. Peter’s Goll., Adel.), 44, on oth; S. Aus.
GoV. Hore-Ruthven, V.C., 57, and Vic. C.J. Irvine,
71, on 6th; Percy Grainger, 47, and Canon Porteus
(E. Maitland), 55, on Bth; Justice Milner Stephen
(N.S.W.), 59, Canon Poole (Adel.), 84, and ex-
Premier J. Verran (S.A.), 73, on 9th; Brig.. Gen.
L. 0. Wilson, 58, on 11th; Brig.-Gen. Leane (S.
Aus. Police Commissioner), 51, and N.S.W. engineer
Percy Allan, 68, on 12th ; Crawford Vaughan (former
3.A. Premier), 55, on 14th; Dr. Saw (Chancellor
Perth Uni.), 61, on 16th; F. M. Forde, M.H.R., 39,
and Prof. E. Harold Davies (Adel. Uni.), 62, on
18th; Vice-Admiral Creswell, 77, on 20th; Vic.
barrister Mitchell, K.C., 74, E. S. Cunningham
(Melb. Argus), 70, and A. G. (“Smiler”) Hales,
69, on 21st; James Stopford, M.L.A. (Q.), 51, on
22nd; Justice Crisp (Speck), 55, and W, R. Alexander
(Clerk of Vic. Parliaments), 58, on 27th; Randolph
Bedford, 61, on 28th; surgeon Alexander MacCormick,
73, on 31st.
J. J. Simons has brought his Y.A.L. boys
back from North America after a wonderful
tour, during which the party was entertained
by President Hoover, James Walsh, Mayor
of New York —Simons’s speech on that
occasion was preserved by the talkies —and
“Big Bill” Thompson, of Chicago. Tall,
humorous, eloquent, Simons is South Aus-
tralian by birth, Westralian by adoption and
all-Australian in his sympathies. In his
youth he came under the influence of Alfred
Deakin, and, though dead, the great Alfred
has never ceased to inspire him. Simons
manages and is part-owner of two Perth
weeklies, the Call and the Mirror ; Victor
Courtney, an original member of the Young
Australia League, is his editor and partner.
Leonard Herbert Botten. the acting sec-
retary of the S. Aus. Dried Fruits Board, who
saw the inside of a Melbourne gaol for refus-
ing to produce the minute-books of his depart-
ment before Justice Starke, had no luck as
a martyr. His removal to the dungeon was
the occasion for a demonstration of merri-
ment in court, and any public fear that he
might be suffering unduly was allayed by the
news that he had been provided with a
comfortable bed and was being fed by friends.
His incarceration lasted only a couple of
days, after which the victim of a Minister’s
thoughtlessness was allowed out on the
understanding that he would not bolt to
America, or something of the sort.
A Melbourne importer, Arthur Freeman
Smith, was one of the two Australians (Mrs.
Ickerson, of Mosman, N.S.W., was the other)
who lost their lives when an Imperial Air-
ways ’plane dived into the English Channel.
A great traveller before he settled in Mel-
bourne, Smith had tried, as salesman, almost
every kind of conveyance known, but this
was his first aeroplane journey.
In 1879 Paul Baptiste Maries, a boy from
the Kangaroo Point school, got a job in the
Brisbane office of Howard Smith, Ltd. After
50 years’ continuous service—2o years in
Brisbane, five in Maryborough and 25 in
Rockhampton—Maries is retiring. Of late
years he has been the company’s Rockhamp-
ton manager. He is the only surviving mem-
ber of the Brisbane office staff of 50 years
ago.
Westralia is in mourning for Charles Owen
Leaver Riley, Bishop of Perth for 20 years
and Archbishop since 1914. Failing health
obliged him to submit his resignation, which
was accepted with the greatest reluctance,
and he was to have retired at the end of
July; but the end came in his St. George’s-
terra.ee home on Sunday morning. He knew
Westralia from Wyndham to Israelite Bay,
and no man has done more to promote good
feeling among all classes, parties and ere.' ds.
Mrs. Riley, two sons (one a clergyman)
and three daughters are left; Basil, the
apple of the old Archbishop’s eye, was killed,
while in the service of London Times.
by bandits in China.
Diggers, and especially Digger policemen,
lost a good friend when Arthur Branst.on’s
career closed at Burwood (N.S.W.). Officer
in charge of the Darlinghurst station when
war broke out, Branston behaved like a
father to the men of the division who en-
listed—his son Cecil was among them. He
took charge of their business arrangements,
collected and banked their pay, sent them
money as they needed it, and saw that they
didn’t want for cigarettes and the like. And
a Bible was one of his presents to each man.
The fine old officer became Superintendent at
Bathurst, Acting-Chief (while Mitch 41 was
abroad) and Metropolitan Superintendent,
retiring from that post about 12 months ago.
W. L. Dale, who is to become the third
member of Vic. Country Roads Board, at
£l2OO a year, has been secretary for years.
He succeeds A. E. Callaway, formerly Chief
Engineer, who retires on June 30. Hitherto
the board has been composed of two engi-
neers and one administrative member: now
there will be one engineer (W. T. B. McCor-
mack, chairman) and two administrative
units (F. W. Fricke and Dale).
Flying-Officer Ryan, of the R.A.A.F., who
conducted Lieut.
Eaton’s ground
party from
Wave Hill to
the desolate
Kookaburra, be-
longs to the pic-
turesque 111 a-
warra hamlet of
Stauwell Park.
When he return-
ed to lieadquar-
ers a telegram
wa s awaiting
him with the
news that his
brother Gerald
had been admit-
ted to practise
as a Ma Stat ■
solicitor. Their
father, who saw
that his lads got
a good start in
life, is master
of the Stanwell
Park school.
MARK
MORTON,
Nationalist
M.L.A. for
Wollondilly
(N.S.W.).
Adam G. Shaw, known to half Melbourne
as “Addy,” has gone to where there are no
reservoirs, tunnels, bridges or viaducts to be
built. The likeable little man contracted to
make all these things, and made them well.
His greatest job was the viaducts or tunnels
which carry Melbourne’s telephone wires;
they are as big as the sewers of Paris or the.
Catacombs of Rome.
On the committee of the Mawson Antarctic
expedition is Dr. Arthur Cherbury Rivett, of
Melbourne Uni.; he represents the Council
of Scientific and Industrial Research. Son
of the Sydney parson who writes for
the Worker. Rivett was Vic. Rhodes
scholar for 1907. He was associated wirli
Australian military hospitals during the
early part of the war, but later became pro-
cess manager of a Wiltshire munition fac-
tory. Lecturer in Chemistry at Melbourne
Uni. since 1911, he became Professor in
1920. He married a daughter of Alfred
Deakin.
At least one Maorilander is to accompany
the Mawson expedition—R. G. Simmers, of
the Maoriland Meteorological Office. Sim-
mers, who is only 24, distinguished himself
at Canterbury College, and was its nominee
NORMAN LILLEY, of the Argus, doyen
of Melbourne dramatic circles.
for a Rhodes scholarship. Pliysjcs was his
first love before he decided that meteorology
had superior charms. He goes to England
to joju the people of the Discovery.
Robert Salmon Whiting, Melbourne soli-
citor and pastpralist, has passed on after
several years’ suffering. He was a partner
with the late liupert Clarke in the Isis
Downs station, Queensland, and was also
associated with the baronet in rubber and
copra ventures in Papua. As a young man
he wfirked for the old legal firm of Taylor,
Buckland and Gates, and he became a part-
ner. Pastoralists will remember him grate-
fully for services rendered to their organi-
sations.
Major F. R. Burnham, now in Australia,
has seen more of adventure than most men.
An American, he was with the Mashonaland
expedition when the Chartered Company
took up Rhodesia, and saw s rvice against
the Matabele as a scout with Baden Powell
and Selous. Appointed chief scout to the
lI.Q. staff by Roberts, he was captured by
De Wet when Broadwocd’s column was
ambushed at Sanna’s Post, but escaped that
night; he rolled out of the waggon he was
placed in, and crawled through the thick
dust raised by the captured waggons to the
shelter of the bush. East Africa called him
during the Great War, and he is on
Ids way thither again, this time to inspect
the African system of game reserves on
behalf of the New York Zoological Society.
H’is little lot in Fawkner cemetery has
just been claimed by John Burke, who used
to be governor of the old Melbourne gaol and
the gaol at Coburg (Vic.), and retired a
little over two years ago, being then (35.
Burke was a fine figure of a man,
and when a strapping young fellow was
more than a match for convicts who worked
in the quarries and tannery at Pentridge
and tried to conceal contraband. He went
the rounds on duty of nearly all the gaols
in his State, and *took things easily in
the last few years of his official life, as
his popularity ensured staff loyalty.
Melbourne is to lose Rabbi Brodie; after
ddining one invitation to join the instruc-
tional staff of Jews’ College, London, he has
accepted a more inviting offer. The resig-
nation has disturbed the congregation, for
it is becoming hard to get rabbis with an
English education; Jews in Britain and the
Dominions show very little inclination to
make ministers of their sons. The Rev. S.
M. Solomon, Brodie’s assistant, is Australian
born, but he has never had the opportunity
to secure his full rabbinical diploma. A
couple of years ago young Super, from Mel-
bourne, took a scholarship at Jews’ Col-
lege. acceptance of which binds the holder
to the pursuit of the sacred calling; he re-
presents the first Australian Jewish con-
tribution to the regular ministry for decades.
Albert Eggins, a pioneer of the Clarence
(N.S.W.), has just gone west, at 78. As
a youngster he came out from England in
the sailer Washington Irving, and, travelling
in a dray from Maitland by way of Armidale,
his family took up land on Alumny Greek,
three miles from the settlement at Grafton.
Young Eggins grew up to be a farmer in a
big way and a power in the co-operative
movement: besides which, he was a Grafton
alderman for 16 years and a hospital helper
for 40. H’a married a daughter of James
Page. Grafton’s first school-teacher.
Queensland University is nelping to ad-
vance the reputation of Australia in scien-
tific circles abroad. An American committee,
reporting on steel column research, and dis-
cussing what is known as the secant formula,
mentions that “the most, elaborate study
known to the committee is that by It. vv.
Hawken; he analyses about seven different
approximations and proposes one of his own
remarkably close to the true value.” Again,
Dr. Jacob Feld, in his “History of the
Development of Lateral Earth Pressure
Theories,” testifies that “several Australian
engineers have produced noteworthy contri-
butions to the subject,” mentioning particu-
larly Hawken and G. N. Boss. lTawken
(M.E. of Sydney) is Professor of Engineer-
ing at Brisbane, and Boss (B.M.E. of Mel-
bourne) is Lecturer.
The passing of J. J. Carlisle, member for
Benalla in Vic. Assembly from 1902 to 1927
and Honorary Minister under Bowser in
1917-18, recalls a journey he made with
Premier Tommy Bent to the Upper Murray
country 22 years ago. As the party (Bent,
Carlisle, Chairman of Committees Craven
and three scribes) were nearing Granya a
horseman met the drag and four horses.
“They’re expectin’ you,” he said to Bent.
“They’ve got a placard up at the pub, but I
don’t'think the wordin’s quite right—it says
that the ‘Minstrel’ party will arrive t’night.”
“Well, I’ve been a bit of a minstrel at times,”
returned the portly Premier. There is now-
only one of the party (an Inky Wayfarer.)
above ground.
“C.”: John “Cyclops” McFarlane, who has
struck trouble at Canberra over possession
of a Cabinet document, helped Billy Hughes
a lot in his troublous years after the war.
Mac lost an eye, and was otherwise badly
battered, in Gallipoli. Billy gave him a job
as messenger, and he virtually became the
Prime Minister’s bodyguard. McFarlane’s
malapropisms are cherished in the Public
Service. One of his brightest was uttered
when a row developed over the expenses of
the Biff Four.
Mae, who had
charge of the
baggage, said,
“Everything I’ve
done is top and
above board.
They’ve got no-
thing on me—
not one iodum.
Talkin’ a b o u t
spending money
on tips, if it
was known
what So-and-so
spent when he
went to Amer-
ica it would
tantalise the
world.”
PROFESSOR
WALTER
HOWCHIN,
of Adelaide
University.
The veteran
(he is 84)
recently
received the
Joseph Verco
medal for
research in
geology.
“ J.E.” discovers a ghost on the Bench: — 1
A question is looming as to whether ex-Justice
Campbell, of N. S. Wales, was changed for his
twin brother in the bath-tub of infancy, or whether
either he or the twin brother died young, or whether
he never existed at all, but somebody has been per-
sonating him all these years. Certainly an alleged
James Lang Campbell sat on the Cornstalk bench
for a long while, and may have honestly believe’d
that he was himself, even if he wasn’t. Barristers
and others who saw him regularly attest that he
looked like himself; in fact the resemblance was
miraculous. A deuce of a row has started, and all
manner of illegalities are alleged, because he, or
one of him, or a colorable imitation, was still deliv-
ering judgments in December, 1928, when, accord-
ing to a statement attributed to one James Lang
Campbell, he should have retired under the age
limit (70 years) on Nov. 22. Appeal being made
for his Honor’s disqualification backward, an urgent
demand was sent to Scotland for the necessary birth
certificate. The document which turned up proved
to be the certificate, not of James Lang Campbell,
but of James Campbell. The Court, holding on to
its temper and its faculties with some difficulty,
naturally asked who was James Campbell, and what
relation (if any) he was to James McSmith, who
hadn’t appeared either and wasn’t appearing now,
and what connection either of them had with the
matter at issue, which was mixed before and wasn’t
improving. Anyhow, it dismissed the appeal against
the allegedly over-age decision given in December.
1928. But that didn't resolve the question whether
Justice Campbell ever existed or only believed he
did, and at what period of his life the mistake, if
any, first arose. The one anchor in a sea of uncer-
tainty was that the appellant had to pay costs.
THE ARBITER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Judge Curlewis (N.S.W.) reproved a witness
for using the word ‘cobber’ and the Crown Prosecu-
tor for repeating it. His Honor stigmatised it as
a ‘slum term,’ and asked what was wrong with
‘friend.’ ’’
“He was my cobber” —an expressive blend
Of “mate” and “pal,” more definite than
“brother”
And somewhat less perfunctory than “friend”
(Which learned counsel flick at one
another).
A homely coinage with a pleasant ring,
You’d say. But how erroneous the view
is!
A vulgarly abominable thing
Is any foundling word to Judge Curlewis.
David and Jonathan, you may agree,
Stryver and Carton, those all-night hob-
nobbers,
Damon and Pythias, Tweedle-dum and -dec
Might all be fairly designated cobbers.
But any word that grows none knoweth how
To certain academic souls taboo is;
Wherefore the thundercloud upon the brow,
The tartness on the tongue of Judge .Cur-
lewis.
What though ’tis daily heard from shore to
shore
With all the emphasis that tongue can
give it?
What though they stamped it with their seal
in war
Who came to know it and who knew to
live it?
What though ’tis packed significance precise,
For ostracism prompt it surely due is,
The synonym for “chum” that iars the nice
Susceptibilities of Judge Curlewis.
Times change and with them we. But
proverbs fail
Too oft and even this no longer true is.
“Cobber,” you needs must pass beyond the
pale,
Being anathema to Judge Curlewis.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


DEATH OF MR. WILLIAM MACLEOD.
The Bulletin reports with deep regret
the death of William Macleod, one of the
proprietors of this paper for over 40 years,
and its managing director down to his re-
tirement three years ago. He founded and
throughout his long connection with the office
maintained that tradition of friendliness
between management and staff which has
contributed so greatly not only to the suc-
cess of the paper but also to the comfort of
those associated with it.
Born in London in October, 1850. William
Macleod was brought to Victoria five years
later by his father and mother. He had
no brothers and but one sister, and the sister
died during the voyage. Arriving in Victoria,
liis parents went at once to the goldfields;
they chose Beech worth for their Eldorado—
their son could remember the talk he heard
as a boy about the horse that was shod with
gold to carry a lucky digger away. But
there was no fortune .awaiting the Macleod
family on this field. The father, whom Wil-
liam Macleod could faintly remember as
having “something to do with a newspaper,”
died; and mother and child soon afterwards
left for Sydney. That was in 1556, the
boy being then six. In the new hom e the
mother, who had spent much of her girlhood
in France and had artistic tastes, met and
married James Anderson, who had some
local fame as a portrait-painter; there is a
portrait of Archbishop Pold-
ing in Sydney University
done by him. Thus young
Macleod was brought up in
an atmosphere of art and the
company of artists; of these
in later days he could
most vividly recall S. T. Gill.
Gill, to whose work a court
is allotted in the Melbourne.
Gallery, showed much in-
terest. in the youngster; and
to him is no doubt largely
duo the fact that the young-
ster decided to be an artist,
too. The ambition was, how-
ever, very nearly thwarted;
Anderson, the boy’s step-
father, gave way to drink,
and thereafter the home was
an entirely wretched one.
Before he was 10 the boy was
earning a few pence when he
could. At 12, with his mind
still on art, he decided to get
as close to it as he could, and
took a job at a photo-
grapher’s. To his stepfather’s
credit it can at least be put
that he encouraged the lad’s
pursuit, and arranged with
a well-known School of Arts
teacher, Edmund Thomas, to
give him lessons. In 1805 or
thereabouts he was the
school’s chief prize-winner.
The boy’s tastes had already
turned definitely to portrait-
ture ; and he began to get
commissions for small water-
color portraits—commissions
on which the stepfather
always constituted himself
the collector.
In 1867 William Macleod
d- a was time to move
out from the home that had
become intolerable to both
himself and his mother. A sort
of partnership was accord-
ingly formed by young Mac-
leod,and two older friends,
one a glass-stainer and the
other a house-painter and
decorator. The coming visit
of the Duke of Edinburgh
was to be prepared for, and
these three believed they
could see in this a golden
harvest. They did so well
that by the time the Duke
arrived young Macleod had
the incredible sum of £2OO,
with which first of all he
proceeded to make a com-
fortable home for his mother.
She thereafter remained with
him, a most devoted son, for
just upon 50 years.
The Duke’s visit over,
young Macleod returned to
liis art studies, at the same
time seeking work that might
assist him in the course he
had mapped out for himself.
At this period he did much work as a glass-
stainer, and was responsible for many church
windows in and about Sydney—for one in-
deed as remote as the Burragorang _ Valley,
then not so easily reached as it is now.
With an audacity at which he marvelled in
his later days, lie also got himself appointed
teacher of drawing at a couple of schools.
Twenty-five years afterwards he again met
two of the girls before w’liom he had been the
blushing young drawing-master of Madame
Dutruc’s academy for young ladies. One
had become the wife of N. S. Wales Pre-
mier John See; the other, a daughter of
Judge Callaghan, had become Mrs. Aubrey
Jones, and a consistent patron of the arts. As
the stained-glass window business slackened
commissions for portraits in oils grew; and
between one thing and another the young
man was kept very busy.
And then an accident turned his thoughts
towards newspaper illustration. At 18 he
had become a gunner in No. 1 Battery of
the N. S. Wales Field Artillery, and pre-
sently, while in training at Campbellfield, he
had. for his own and his mates’ amusement,
made sketches of camp incidents. A few’
of these reached the officers’ mess, and to
his surprise when he got back to town he
was asked to call and see the Messrs. Fair-
fax with his sketches. He met James and
Edward Fairfax, and thus began many years’
association with the Sydney Mail That was
before the days of photo-engraving; the prac-
tice then was for the artist to make his
picture either on boxwood or on stone
for the lithographic process. His work on
the Sydney Mail opened for him the Illus-
trated Sydney News and other pictorial
journals of that period.
During this tremendously busy time of liis
life he continued his more serious studies,
and year after year was awarded medals
for oil portraiture at exhibitions held by the
art section of the Royal Agricultural Society.
These exhibitions led on to the establish-
ment of the Academy of Art, which was the
forerunner of the Art Society. He was a
member of the council of this society for
many years under the presidency of Julian
Ashton. Of the foundation members of the
Academy one at least remains—George Col-
lingridge. For this old colleague Macleod
retained a deep affection; and when, after
putting his brushes aside for 30 years, he
took them up again in days when business
cares were lightened, an early sitter was
George Collingridge. The result was one of
the most delightful of many portraits of old
friends painted during this period of recrea-
tion ; and no man ever got more joy out
of a hobby in the evening of his life.
So industrious was he in his later twenties
that his income had reached £l5OO a year—
a figure probably never before realised by
an Australian artist. Then the “Picturesque
Atlas” came on the scene. The venture was
very strongly backed: expense in its produc-
WILLIAM MACLEOD.
(From a portrait painted for The Bulletin Newspaper Co. by F.H. Monteath.)
tion was not to be spared, especially on the
art side. .Captured by this promise—gener-
ally fulfilled —Macleod accepted an offer of a
two-years’ engagement to travel over Aus-
tralia with his pencil and his sketch-book.
In January, 1880, his friend J. F. Archi-
bald had joined ! 4°^ n Haynes in founding
The Bulletin. Macleod had given Archi-
bald a hand in launching the new venture,
and had at the same time deeply impressed
him by sterling commonsense, shrewd judg-
ment and business capacity. It was in busi-
ness capacity that Archibald soon saw the
new proprietary was lacking. Again and
again he appealed to Macleod to throw up
the “Atlas” and join them. Macleod was,
however, engrossed in his own work. But
the time arrived when Archibald’s call was
irresistible. The deciding letter came to
Macleod when he was at work in Ballarat.
After many vicissitudes the paper had passed
into the hands of W. H. Traill along with
the original founders. Traill had come from
Queensland to edit the Sydney Mail, and
had struck Macleod as an exceedingly force-
ful man as well as an experienced editor.
Macleod knew’ Archibald to be an incom-
parable sub-editor. The combination appealed
to him. He decided to join The Bulletin
if the “Atlas” would release him. After
some negotiations it consented to do so; and
Macleod came into the office as manager.
Macleod’s first interest in the paper as a
proprietor was acquired from Haynes. Many
other changes occurred in the proprietary in
those days of struggle; and after Traill's
withdrawal and the return of. Silas Hard-
ing to America, there was a time when the
whole business was in Macleod's hands. But
no fairer or more generous man was ever
in the business life of Sydney. He knew
what Archibald's genius had done for .The
Bulletin ; knew that without Archibald
there could not have been a Bulletin.
Voluntarily, therefore, he handed over a half-
interest in the paper to his friend and col-
league.
For some years Macleod worked on both
sides of the paper—the business side and
the art side; and he did not cease to produce
political cartoons and other drawings until
first Livingston Hopkins and then Phil May
Were brought on to the staff. Even then he
continued to take a keen interest, in the pic-
torial work. Just as Arch bald had the
keenest nose for a promising writer, so Mac-
leod had an almost uncanny perception of
the possibilities of a new and inexperienced
draughtsman. When a manager was
appointed to relieve the managing director
Macleod was happy to be able to take over
the duties of art editor; and in that capacity
he was guide, philosopher and friend of
countless young aspirahts who climbed to
his office.
For many years the world had been very
kind to him, and he had repaid it with kind-
ness; then in 1919 a dark shadow passed over
his life —Norman, his elder son, who had been
manager of The Bulletin for 12 years, and
his eldest daughter died of influenza within
a few days of one another. To Norman he
had been very closely attached; and the office
was never the same to him afterwards. Little
by little he dropped out of its activities;
again and again he asked to be allowed to
drop out altogether. But his counsel was
still desired; and not until 1920—he had
then reached the age of 76 —was his resigna-
tion of the office of managing director
accepted. His colleagues on the board on
that occasion put this on the company's
records: — .
This meeting places on record its high appreciation
of the faithful and fruitful services of Mr. William
Macleod as managing director of this company for
over 38 years, and trusts to have the benefit of his
wisdom and experience as chairman of the board
for many years more.
He continued a director of the company for
a few’ months. Then he asked to be per-
mitted to go into complete retirement,
arranged for the sale of his share interest
to the old colleague who had succeeded him
as managing director, and his long associa-
tion with the company ended. He continued
to take a keen interest in it, neverthe-
less ; and no greeting that came to him on
his 78th birthday was more appreciated
than one that expressed affection for the
old chief and was signed by every person
in the service that he had so faithfully and
fondly built. , ,
Than Macleod and Archibald, who were
for so long associated, it would be hard to
iind two men more unlike; yet each had the
greatest respect for the qualities of the other.
Archibald was full of enthusiasms: he was a
great admirer and a great hater. Macleod
was always placid, never ruffled. The one
was literary to the fingertips, the other wholly
without endowments of that kind; the one
a brilliant cynic, the other an amiable philo-
sopher ; the one delighting in the club, the
other in the domestic circle. Archibald was
happiest when he was leading a revolt
against something he believed to be wrong;
Macleod when he was mending broken friend-
ships and pouring oil on troubled waters.
Satisfy Macleod that, a course was right
and he would not be turned from it; but
while the one would attack with banners
flying, the other would win if he could by
tact and gentle persuasion. When these
failed the gloves would come off, and he
would exhibit a bull-dog tenacity. The office
history records a rare example of that in the
tremendous Atacama libel case.
Another instance of that quality was seen
in a case in which a well-known actress was
the plaintiff. On the eve of her departure
for England she brought an action against
Macleod as publisher of an alleged libel. He
knew that she had no case, and begged her
not to go on with it —she could not hope
to win and stood to lose a great deal. She
replied cheerfully that you
never knew when an attractive
woman faced a jury, and, any-
how, she had nothing to lose,
so it was The Bulletin
that would suffer whatever
else happened. The verdict
was given against her, and
she was ordered to pay de-
fendant’s costs. Before any
action could be taken to
recover them she sailed for
England. Ten years later,
believing that she was now
safe through the Statute of
Limitations, she returned to
Australia and found a note
asking her to call on Macleod.
lie presented the Court’s
order for costs. She tried but
could not shake him. “You
did a very unfair thing,” he
insisted. “You knew you
w r ere doing it. Now you
must pay.” And week by
week she paid; and week by
week the cheque was passed
on to a charity.
Outside the office as with-
in it he was a genial com-
panion and a staunch friend.
He radiated goodwill. Public
life did not attract him: in
any case he would have
found it incompatible with
his connection w T ith The
Bulletin. He was. so
staunch to his old friend-
ships that as the years
passed he recognised with
sorrow that his circle was
growing very small. For 40
years lie had been an en-
thusiastic bowder, and the
ranks of his old club-mates
became painfully thin. With
“Hop” he had been on terms
of close friendship both at
work and at play, and the
death of the famous cartoon-
ist a year or so back affected
him greatly. He had been
first a member of the Waver-
ley Club, afterwards of Mos-
man. Of both he was presi-
dent, and for many years
also president of the N.S.W.
Bowling Association. But
of all the greens on which
he played he loved best the
one on which twice a week
he entertained his friends at
Dunvegan, his Mosman
home.
Here, too, he had sur-
rounded himself with trea-
sures of art. Of drawings
and paintings he was a dili-
gent collector had been
from the days when he pur-
chased “Breaking the News.”
the painting with which John
Longstaff won the scholar-
ship that first carried him to
Europe. He had seen practically every im-
portant picture in the world, only those
of Spain excepted. Ten years ago he felt
that his life -would not be complete without
a visit to Madrid —where he desired especi-
ally to look on the paintings of Velasquez
—and South America: these two places had
somehow' been left out of his wanderings.
But he found the prospect too strenuous,
and at last philosophically settled down to
the enjoyment of his leisure at home.
But he was still able to get great
enjoyment out of sketching and painting
excursions to Phillip Island and the southern
coast of Victoria, where of late years he
spent some happy vacations with his son.
He is survived by a widow —Miss Conor
O’Brien, the writer of The Bulletin s
“Woman’s Letter” before her marriage—one
son, Ronald; and two daughters.
He had lived an active life, and had been
blessed with very robust health. His first
real illness came to him little more than six
months ago. From that, however, he made
some recovery, and was well enough to spend
the end of the summer at Robertson. Re-
turning to Dunvegan—named after the old
home of the Macleods in the Hebrides—he
relapsed; and during the past month there
was never any hope of his recovery. His old
friends wnll rejoice to know that his passing
was quite painless.


..
? ' '
t
;
Si
Lj
m
(
V
a
■mm
V
a
X
>
\ 4
(
x- *&***■/ $ ';:■ ■> s » >■'
X-X?
§»
w
*
Six
JfiSS
;•><■
* v
ir
»*
f' - •'
&*«*
v
; :m*H
s
<■>■ Six!
■.:' '" !
«1
:
» &S& j
hslfe
b
<Br
FULLY FASHIONED


Vanishes Shid Troubles
The Stud
You Can’t
Lose
Provoking, isn’t it,
when* your Stud
falls —rolls where
you can’t find it?
Makes you desper-
ate —mad —feel like suicide. And all
through the Old-time Stud. The new
“Silver Bird” ends your Stud troubles
It can’t roll-*-shaped to fit neck—
easily inserted and withdrawn —will not
tilt—nothing to get out of order. Saves
Time and Temper.
Two Styles—Back and Front Studs.
Art Ivory, 1/-; Pearl 2/-
ROTHWELLS OUTFITTING
-^LIMITED
EDWARD STREET
BP I SBAN E
VICHY
b
Pv™-J§
mmm
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
When you come to
Sydney
You will find at Usher’s every essen-
tial to the enjoyment of your visit.
Hotel service that is homelike,
cuisine of rare excell-
ence, and that
friendly hospitality
which you desire.
Telephone and run-
ning water in all
rooms. Book accom-
modation early.
Bed
and
Br
f^kfast
, T *riff
ifd
es ired
Special tariff or inclusive terms.
Wharf
HOT E L
OPP. THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
’Phone 86511 (10 lines).
Cable & Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel,” Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
IT Fit Majesty’s “The Desert Sons”
Criterion (com. Saturday) .. “The Perfect Alibi”
Royal (com. Saturday) .... “The Flying Squad”
Palace “Dracula”
Tivoli Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “The Five-o’clock Girl”
Royal (com. Saturday) Sir Harry Lauder
King’s “The Wrecker”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
“Outward Bound,” revived at Sydney Savoy,
has given “profound” a quick vogue in current
dramatic criticism, and one critic has gone
so far as to say that Sutton Vane’s “theory,
as outlined in the play, has made theatre-
goers think —and think deeply.” Actually,
Sutton Vane’s “theory, as outlined in the
play,” is as absurd as anything that lias
ever served to indicate the vast gulf
that yawns between life and the stage.
The onlooker of the deep-thinking variety
is asked to accept that, after death,
humans, wearing their flesh and their clothes,
using their voices, smoking, spotting and
wrangling, voyage aboard an ordinary-looking
ship to an earthly-seeming Heaven controlled
by parsons (called “Examiners”), one of
whom comes aboard the ship when it reaches
port, and. in true customs-officer manner,
proceeds to question the passengers about
their spiritual baggage. Nothing could be
more artificial.
And that, undoubtedly, is as the play-
wright intended. His play reveals him as a
dramatist, not a propagandist. He does not
ask that you swallow the childish theology,
hut simply that his play be appraised on
its dramatic merits, which are such that,
after smiling charitably upon the “theory,”
you may still’ “think deeply” of the play.
It is a fine play because, theatrically, it
convinces—in detail and as a whole. The
playwright has a clear-cut story to tell, and
lie tells it picturesquely and in terms so
general that the drama is practically un-
dated. Its setting, a passenger-ship's saloon,
is topical indefinitely; the clothing of the
characters is whatever is fashionable at
the time of production ; the characters them-
selves are so enduring that they can be
named not as Ann, Henry. Mr. Prior, Mrs.
Cliveden-Banks, Rev. William Duke, Mrs.
Midget and Mr. Lingley, but as Feminine
Dover, Masculine Lover, Dipsomaniac, Adult-
DUSOLINA GIANNINI, who begins her Australian concert
tour at Sydney Town Hall on Saturday.
eress, Weak Will, Mother Love and Unscru-
pulous Rich. The only other characters.
Scrubby (ship’s steward) and Rev. Frank
Thompson (Examiner), are mere mechanical
aids.
The dramatic action is brilliantly managed.
The playwright unfolds his story quite
leisurely, in his own time, but meanwhile
he amuses and entertains with witty dialogue,
fine and complete character-drawing and de-
velopment, and sharp contrasts. From the
moment the first word is spoken the atmo-
sphere is fixed and the interest is so gripped
that you at once sit up, anxious to know
what will happen next. As the action moves
forward that anxiety grows until it be-
comes a matter of urgency to know how
the different characters will emerge from the
testing which it is indicated lies ahead. A
remarkable feature is the even balancing of
the figures. The playwright has refrained
from taking sides. Whichever character
happens to be speaking or acting—there is
acting—is the play’s leading figure. Another
remarkable feature is the impression of
complete incompleteness. Each character’s
story is a complete thing up to the time he
or she disappears from the action, but he
or she goes but to carry the story on else-
where. Mrs. Cliveden-Banks, having com-
mitted adultery and otherwise helped to
drive a decent chap out of life, is sent to
join him, and you are left to speculate how
that will work out. Mrs. Midget, a char-
woman type, turns out to be the mother of
Prior, an educated youth turned wastrel. She
had assumed the fake name in order not to
contaminate him, and now he is handed back
to her to mother, and there is no saying
how that will work out, either. Mr. Ling-
ley, who, under another name, has made his
unscrupulous fortune, is sent to Hell, but it
seems likely that he’ll take charge when he
gets there, and pity goes with him. The
Rev. William Duke, who had wavered in
his faith, will automatically carry on his
good work among those who need it in
Heaven, no doubt qualifying in time to be
an Examiner. Ann and Ilenry,. whose death-
pact over the gas tap is the basis of the play,
are also left in the air. As a strange,
bewildered, staring pair, they appear as soon
as the play opens, clinging to each other
under the impending fear that they will be
forcibly separated. Ghostily, they move in
the background throughout the play: the
others are too interested in their own affairs
to take much more than a passing glance
at them. When the Examiner finishes with
the others, he leaves the strange pair With
a sympathetic nod —they, explains the
steward, who is also a suicide, are half-
ways.” So they are left on the ship with
the steward, though they are still. fearful of
being separated. There .is mention of the
last thing they knew in life —-the man s
dog staring in through the window ot the
gas-filled room. A crash of breaking glass
is heard and the man changes; having been
stronger than the girl, he recovers from the
gas, and goes out of the ship—that is. back
to life—and the girl is left alone. But a
little later he returns to her from life, and
they are together
in the end, happy
that powers that
would have sepa-
rated them in life
are now impotent
to put them apart.
The play is ad-
mirably produced
by Scott Alex-
ander, whose Ex-
aminer is a good
jolly-priest type.
The ghostly atmo-
sphere of the death
ship is suggested
immediately and
sustained through-
out, partly by a
judicious arrange-
ment of light and
partly by the fine
dumb acting of
Molly Raynor and
John Warwick as
the lovers. Annie
Hughes, who re-
cently arrived from
England, mak e s
Mrs. Midget too
strident, and at
one stage, when the
Examiner quietly
breathes her real
name in the part,
she shatters the im-
pressiveness of the
play completely by
a screeching out-
burst. The occa-
sion calls for tense,
hissed whispers;
loud-voiced acting
is rarely dramatic.
Zara Clinton gives
a carefully studied
interpretation o f
Mrs. Cliveden-
Banks, and, with
Claude Carter, as
Prior, manages the lighter side excellently.
Alec Alves convinces as Lingley, and Eric
Scott, as Duke, and Edward Landor, as the
steward. Scrubby, add the other figures to
the most satisfying dramatic fare available
in Sydney at the moment.
* * *
Pianist William Murdoch and baritone
Harold Williams continued to delight large
audiences at Sydney Town Ha 1 ! last week.
On Tuesday night Murdoch gave finished
readings of the Mozart Fantasia in C Minor,
Beethoven’s Sonata “Pathetique” and Ohoi.in
and Debussy groups, with a little Schubert
for good measure and variety. Williams sang
better than on the opening night. The
audience was enthusiastic from the opening
line of his fine rendering of The Iwo
Grenadiers,” sung with dramatic vigor and-
a clean regard for the word as well as the
SD irit Wolfram’s Address, from Tann-
hauser”; lago’s “Credo,” from Verdis
“Otello”; a choice French group (one
song of which the audience insisted upon
having repeated)
and some delightful
arrangements o f
old melodies wei’e
other memorable
items in a fine per-
formance.
Saturday night's
entertainment had
what such concerts
rarely hold, an
abundance of
humor, provided by
the singer’s exqui-
site handling of a
group of Bellocs
chucklesorne “Cau-
tionary Tale s, - ’
with their Strewel
Petcrish emphasis-
ing of ' the moral
that emerges from
the terrible deeds
of wicked children.
Other vocal suc-
cesses were “Why
Do the Nations?”
the rollicking
“Toreador” and
“Sergeant Major,”
and “It I s
Enough.” T h e
pianist played the
“Moonlight” Son-
ata rather more
carefully than ex-
pressively, but
achieved a full suc-
cess with the De-
bussy “Children s
Corner” group.
The final concert
Will be given on
Saturday. .
* * *
Jim Gerald is
still running wild
at Sydney Fullers’,
to the intense satis- „
faction of the local addicts. For the Dura-
tion ” his latest production, will strike a chord
of reminiscence in the breasts of those brave
old stalwarts who used to wish they were
younger so that they might rush to the war
and imbue their spats in gore As a station-
hand who enlists with his friends, Gerald
is the perfect “Dag,” and lias two worthy
cobbers in Reg Hawthorne and Dan Weldom.
Linda Foy and Essie Jennings are two
nurses of the sort that helped to win the
war, while Howard Hall as a sergeant-
major was more perfect than anything of
the kind ever seen in this too solid flesh.
First-class support in the sketch and vaude-
ville sections completed a good show.
# ¥ #
Melbourne Tivoli is largely occupied at the
moment with Paulo, Paquita and Chikita,
one man and two women from the land ot
revolutions and Standard Oil, who dance as
they dance in Mexico, also in Paris, Vladi-
vostok, Lisbon and Geelong. 'I hey are all
extremely graceful, and one handsome crea-
ture has a warble and sings in her native
tongue, though one doesn’t need to know
Mexican to realise that the voice is severely
thin. Another satisfactory item is English
comedian Jack Edge. His most popular
number, is “The Cock Oroweth but the Hen
Delivereth the Goods,” and his patter gets
the laughs. The rest is f.a.q. vaudeville,
most of which lias been analysed in this clini-
cal laboratory before.
V
Sydney Tivoli seems to be feeling the
effects of the talkies in one direction, at
least—its male ushers, who have hitherto
worn the ordinary clobber of the sex, have
suddenly blossomed out in sky-blue jackets, as
resplendent as anything outside the latest
palace of glass, gilt and glitter. Otucrv/ise
the old place carries on in its usual easy
going fashion, with, at the moment, Dora
Maughan raising the kind of laugh that
explodes when the sharper edge of her two-
meaning remarks cuts its way through the
brawn. Hector St. Clair is also making fair
mirth, and Walter Fehl, billed as the “Good,
Good Boy.” balances the direful influence of
Dora, who is the “Bad, Bad Woinan.”
’ * * *
Two outstanding artists closed their sea-
sons in Melbourne almost simultaneously.
Anna Pavlova finished up with repetitions
of some of her best known and most beauti-
ful crystallisations of the melodic l J ne iu
bodily movement. Judging by the last-minute
rush of patrons, news of the presence of
superlative goods travels slowly in Mel-
bourne.
Brailowsky closed his account ut the I own
Hall with an additional couple of concerts.
A matinee was given one day in place of
the evening performance, and the size of the
attendance suggested that the idea was a
good one. The programme was what is usu-
ally described, with a deprecatory sniff ficm
the critics, as popular; all the present writer
can say is that the popular taste needn t be
ashamed of itself. Is there anything much
better in musical literature than the Moon-
light Sonata, however hackneyed ; or Chopin s
\ flat Polonaise, with its astounding re-crea-
JANE SEES, the dancer in “Whoopee,” at Sydney Empire.
tion of an epoch of ruffs, swords, doublets,
stiff brocades, amorous silks and passion
richly embroidered with gallantry; or the
Spinning Chorus from “The Flying Dutch-
man,” or the Tannhauser Overture? Nor
are any of these easy marks for the per-
former. The emotions of the Moonlight
Sonata —it might just as well have, been
called the Electric Light for all the label
has to do with the contents —fairly flayed
Brailowsky, and the enormous technical com-
plexities and tortuous rhythms of the Tann-
hauser left him panting, perspiring and glad
of the support of the Steinway. Brailowsky
looks a frail wight with a consuming fire
inside him. His playing of Chopin has been
a revelation.
# * *
Friday will present the final opportunity
for Melbourne to pay the tribute of tears to
Irene Homer and “The Patsy” at the King’s.
On Saturday season-ticket holders will be
able to view railway accidents with equani-
mity—“ The Wrecker” moves in for a brief
revival. Those of the other theatres that
are not bolted and barred are maintaining
a smiling countenance and the status quo,
some of them only the status quo.
* # *
Leon Gordon is well served by his co.'
in “The Flying Squad,” the Wallace thriller
which has succeeded “Scandal” at Adelaide
Royal. It belongs to a poor kind of play,
but is good of that kind; as long as you don’t
analyse the thrills get across all right. Also,
the comedy relief is unusually strong, and
in that line Frank Bradley has never done
better work. Mayne Linton, Leetie Victor and
Henrietta Cavendish all pull their weight.
# ¥ *
Nellie Bramley continues to do big busi-
ness at Brisbane Royal, with frequent
changes of bill. Last week’s offering was
“You’d Be Surprised,” wherein Ronald
Riley, as Nathaniel Homer, retired business
man. was the outstanding player, though
perhaps not the outstanding figure. The
next offering will be “The Last of Mrs.
Cheyney,” the Lonsdale play of some brilliant
dialogue and a charming bedroom scene.
Considering the hectic life it has to lead on
stage, the company does remarkably well.
A new show turns up every week, and the
players manage sufficiently satisfying inter-
pretations of their kuick-change parts to keep
the house-full sign in constant occupation.
* ¥ ¥
“Dramofilm”: Arnold Ridley, author of
“The Ghost Train” and a public-school
teacher in calmer moments, has now written
“Keepers of Youth,” a play in which he
claims to have dramatised real incidents in
public-school life.


The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company, Limited.
Founded 1886.
Assets at 31st December, 1928,
£18,792,732
of which 84% was represented by
Public Securities.
The M.L.C. Charter is constituted to
admit of the issue of policies to meet
the necessities of every class, every age.
every purse. Its range of contracts is
unsurpassed for diversity and liberality,
and the fulfilment of every contract is
guaranteed by the Company’s capital
and its ever-increasing assurance Funds.
CASH SURPLUS in the Ordinary
Branch for the year 1928, £624,370.
ARTHUR EEDY,
Managing Director.
Head Office: Citizens’ Building, Castlereagh
Street and Martin Place, Sydney.
Who Will Manage Your Estate?
At all times when an individual is appointed as Executor or Trustee
the uncertainty of human life is present. Who is better qualified to
administer your Estate than the
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED.
It cannot die, travel or disappear; has had over 40 years’ experience
in the management of all classes of Estates, and offers as security the
whole of its capital and assets —over £1,000,000.
Our Explanatory Booklet will be
sent to you Post Free on Request.
DIRECTORS:
THOS. BUCKLAND F- N. YARWOOD o. E. FRIEND
JAMES MOIR (Chairman) Lt.-Col. T. F. RUTLEDGE
J. W. Barnes, Manager. E. V. T. Whittle, Asst. Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PUIJE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
The WILLD CAT
COLUMN
The Bank of New Zealand.
Dividends.
“A.” “B”&Urd. Writ-
-10 p.c. 15 p.c. ten
March, Profits. v * * Off. Reserves.
1919.. 438,022 237,600 60,000 2,496,224
“A.” “B”&Ord.
10 p.c. p.c.
1920.. 469,049 268,750 50,000 2,646,520
Transferred to capital, £1,125,000 1,521,620
Govt.’s Ord.
Divs. 13J p.c.
1921.. 827,256* 112,500 300,000 60,000 1,886,276
1922.. 682,043 112,500 300,000 50,000 2,105,819
1923.. 653,638 112,500 300,000 2,246,957
Profit on sale of securities, £148,112 2,395,069
Inner reserves disclosed .. 184,465 2,579,634
Premiums on new shares 3,464 2,682,988
1924.. 735.832 137,436 349,871 2,831,613
1925.. 819.286 162,500 400.000 3,088,299
Premiums on new shares £2311 3,090,010
inner reserves disclosed, £lOO,OOO 3,190,610
1926.. 912,160 212,464 499,928 3,390,378
Profit on sale of securities, £143,420 3,633,798
Mortgage
Shares.
Govt.’s Ord. 6 and
Divs. 14J p.c. p.c.
1927.. 847,671 231,250 537,600 3,064 3,609,655
Profit on sale of securities, £73,611 3,683,166
Premiums on new shares, £825 .. 3,683,991
1928.. 841,878 231,250 537,500 24,594 3,732,525
Inner reserves disclosed, £212,005.. 3,944,530
1929.. 912,954 231,250 537,600 46,143 4,042,591
The outstanding features of last; year’s
figures are net increases of £3,600.618 in
•deposits and of only £93,234 in advances.
For the most part the movements reflect the
Dominion’s healthy trade position, due to
increased prosperity in the primary indus-
tries. Exports, which had expanded over
£11,000.000 during the 12 months to March
31, 1928, increased a further £2,192,000 last
year, reaching £57,154,000. That figure
exceeded the total imports by £12,048,000,
dairy produce making a conspicuous showing.
When Maoriland’s exports are paid for, mostly
through London, the money is added to
funds held overseas, and at the same time
the amounts are credited, less charges, to
the exporters’ deposit accounts in their home
hanks.
Of course the 8.N.Z., which handles about
half the ordinary banking business in the
Dominion, shared in the general prosperity,
and the management wrote the year’s gross
profit, which was a record, £99,731 better
than for the previous term. Here are the
figures, together with other p. and 1. items,
covering the last decade: —
Gross
Income.* Expenses. Taxes.
1919 .. £1,217,153 £371,659 £386,273
1920 . . 1,376,838 430,109 456,484
1921 .. 1.844.017 610,467 485,095
1922 .. 1,809,266 528,174 577,840
1923 .. 1,646,041 525,532 445,671
1924 . . 1,709,289 562,596 389,661
1925 .. 1,776,324 567,495 367,343
1926 .. 1,888,309 600,068 354,882
1927 .. 1,830,881 611,270 350.740
19.28 .. 1,816,869 630,453 323,339
1929 .. 1,916,600 648,581 333,866
*Less provision for contingencies.
Last year both management and taxation
charges were heavier, but the two combined
took only 51.2 p.c. of the 'gross profit as
against 52.5 p.c. in the previous term; thus
the spring in the disclosed net result was
£71,076. After attending to the pref. and
mortgage-share requirements, the balance of
the year’s net earnings was 1G.9 p.c. on
average ordinary capital compared with
15.6, 16.4, 18.7, 21.9 and 22.7 p.c. back to
1924.
Notwithstanding this marked downward
trend in earning power, due partly to
new capital which has been invested
in low interest-bearing securities, a bonus
of 1 p.c. was added to the ord. div. in 1927,
making it 14J p.c., and that rate has been
repeated twice since. The suggestion there
is that earnings are better than they look.
There is no doubt at all that the directors,
being prudent men, take advantage of times
when trade is prosperous and profits arc
large to make liberal provision for contin-
gencies that might arise. Some idea of how
well book values have been protected in this
way can be gathered from the fact that the
substantial amount of £713,400, including
£216,931 profit on the sale of securities, has
been brought from hiding and added to visible
accumulations during the last half-dozen,
years. At March 31 reserves benefited by
£212,005 in this way. To what extent last
week’s ’quake in the Shivery Isles is likely to
affect the book value of the bank’s securities
there remains to be. seen. Most of the dam-
age done has been in sparsely-populated dis-
tricts on the west coast.
When the books last closed there was
£703,125 more capital—£B6,9l3 of it came
in during the year—to be fed before the
ords. were attended to than there was three
years earlier. Of that amount 243,375 “C”
shares carry 6 p.c. and 468,750 “D” shares
7 i p.c. This is the capital in the new
Long-term Mortgage Department, where
loans are made on the amortisation principle
at 6 p.c. with currencies up to 36 years.
The amount so advanced at March 31 was
£698,376, or £378,614 more than at the pre-
vious balance. The rest of the fund (£4749)
was temporarily employed in the Ordinary
branch. Another factor that has helped to
slow down the rate of earnings is that
£1,250,000 of the £2,953,125 of fresh capital
got in since 1923 has been lent to the Gov-
ernment at 54 p.c. until 1935.
Trade and other movements are reflected
in this comparison of balance-sheet figures:—
Liauilitirs.
Notes. Bills. Deposits.
1919.. £3,728,249 £2,860,391 £31,716,353
1920.. 6,765,337 3,708,305 37,601,611
1921.. 4,741.492 4,116,574 34,476,655
1922.. 4,294,230 3,713,175 28,076,603
1923.. 4,664,095 3,739,310 30,003,927
1924.. 4,072,101 3,308,426 30,501,720
1925. 4,108,844 3,058,651 30,’079.283
1926.. 4,444,392 3,721,791 31,121,288
1927.. 3,765,593 4,016.265 29,664,024
1928. . 3,797,080 3,985,303 30,389,033
1929.. 4,290,793 4,313,722 33,939,661
Assets.
Liquid. Advances. Premises.
1919.. £23,948,301 £18,805,538 £399,867
1920.. 33,120,009 19,431,848 361,108
1921.. 18,922,513 30,506,029 337,469
1922.. 18,260,158 24,783,560 290,473
1923.. 25,423,237 19,341,762 308,379
1924.. 26,011,290 20,128,292 352,474
1925.. 26,232,652 20,614,286 437,760
1926.. 26,482,848 22.662,697 484,103
1927.. 23,897,114 23,924,980 520,877
1928.. 25,892,025 22,748,219 533,597
1929.. 30,233,353 22,841,463 549,383
The nature of deposits is not disclosed, but
a substantial part of last year’s increase was
on Government account, and according to
the last quarterly returns 49.1 p.c. of the
total was interest-bearing. The piling-up
of fixed deposits indicates the cautious attitude
of the owners of the money with regard
to its safe and profitable employment. Manu-
facturing activities, the development of which
has been hampered by high taxation and in-
sufficient protection, have been slow to
respond to the improved conditions, and re-
tailers are buying cautiously and adjusting
stocks to easier prices. So, despite the fact
that the interest and discount rate, which
was lifted from 6£ p.c. to 7 p.c. in May,
1927, was reduced to 6£ p.c. again in July
last, there has been no improvement in the
demand for money. Advances were only
67.3 p.c. of the deposits at March 31 as
against 74.9 p.c. and 80.6 p.c. at the two
preceding balances. Liquids, which were
further strengthened by £4,341,328 during the
year, were 71 p.c. of all outside liabilities,
and the bank was holding only £3 18s. Bd.
of the public’s money for every £1 of its
own funds when the books were last ruled
off. That is an exceptionally strong position.
The Government’s connection with the
B.N.Z. dates back to the ’nineties, when it
guaranteed an issue of two millions of stork.
It now holds £2.109,375 of the £6,858.114
of paid capital, and has a majority represen-
tation on the board. For the pound ords.
the market paid 595. 3d. a year ago; it now
prices them at 625. 6d. The return at tho
latter figure is only 4.6 p.c. on a 14£ p.c.
div. basis.
Gordon and Gotch (Australasia), Ltd.
, Dividends N Nominal
Half-year Net Pref. To Re- Re-
ended Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinaries, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Sept.,’22. .15,324 2799 Nil 12,525 35,766
Mar.,’23. .20,211 3667 8 p.c. = 12.915 3,629 39,395
Sept.,’23. .26,982 4000 8 „ „ 12,915 10,067 49,462
Mar.,’24. .23,966 4000 8 „ „ 12,915 7,040 56,502
New share costs written off, £3856 .. 52,0)6
Sept.,’24. .33.851 4000 8 p.c. = 16.000 13,851 66,497
Mar.,'2s. .46,234 4000 8 „ „ 16.000 26,234 92,731
Sept.,’2s. .38.229 4000 8 „ „ 16,000 18.229110.950
Mar.,’26. .39,261 4000 8 „ „ 16,000 19,261 130,221
Sept.,’26. .39,422 4000 8 „ „ 20,000 15,422145,643
Mar.,’27. .38,580 400010 „ ~ 25,000 9,580 155.223
Sept.,’27. .42,142 400010 „ „ 25,000 13,142168,365
Mar.,’2B. .48,169 400010 „ 25.000 19,169 787.534
Sept.,’2B. .47,085 400012 „ „ 30,000 13,085 200.619
Mar.,’29. .50,771 4000 12 ~,, 30,000 16,771 217,390
Very good progress has been made since
the present co. amalgamated the widely-scat-
tered and old-established wholesale book,
newsagency and paper businesses of Gordon
and Gotch 10 years ago. Owing to the post-
war slump and preliminary work that had
to b<s done, early results were disappointing,
but earnings quickly recovered and provided
a wide margin over the 8 p.c. divs. that fol-
lowed. The rate was lifted to 10 p.c. two years
ago, and 18 months later the board surprised
the market by the ease with which a bonus at
the rate of 2 p.c. p.a. was added to the 10
p.c. div. Both were repeated for the last
half, making 12 p.c. for the year; and, though
that called for an extra £lO.OOO, only 70
p.c. of the year’s net earnings was distri-
buted. Gross profits for the year sprang
£0212, reaching the record figure of £102,104.
But what means more is that the manage-
ment has been able to handle the livelier
turnover at a reuuced cost. For the 1-
montlis to March 31 exes. (£64,640) were
actually £1331 less than for the previous
year; they took only 39.8 p.c. of_ the gross
profit as against 42.3 p.c. and 47.5 p.c. in
the two years before last. Thus, after attend-
ing to the 100,000 p¥efs.—they call for £BOOO
p.a.—the balance of the year’s net earnings
mounted to 17.9 p.c. on average ord. capital
compared with 16.5, 14, 17.4, 18 and 13.3
p.c. back to 1924.
In 1925 £lOO,OOO of new ord. capital was
issued, and the money went largely into the
co.’s new Brisbane warenouse and in. re-
modelling its Sydney and Adelaide premises.
So until a couple of years ago there was
a considerable amount of capital represented
by uncompleted premises that were not bring-
ing in much return. But earnings have since
responded handsomely to the improved trad-
ing facilities; also better conditions in Maori-
land have assisted recent takings there —
for a long time the Maoriland business was
not much of a contributor to the pool. .
Reserves are not quite as substantial a
buttress for capital as the bare figures in the
table suggest; they are labelled nominal
because they are subject to £118,014 of
goodwill. Thus ut March 31 there were net
tangible assets with a book value of 235.
lid. to represent each of the half-million
£1 ordinary shares. In addition there was
the taxation reserve, which has grown from
£15,051 in 1923 to £20.837 at the close of
last accounts, the net addition for the 12
months to that date being £1239. Probably
some true profit is stored there. Also an
unspecified amount is regularly charged
against earnings for depreciation of plant,
etc., and it can be taken for granted that
included in this have been some amounts
spent on modernising the co.’s premises.
Appearances are that under fair conditions,
and provided exes, can be kept in hand, the
12 p.c. to shareholders should not be difficult.
Balance-sheet movements are distinctly
encouraging:—
Mar.,’27. Mar.,’2B. Mar.,’29.
Paid capital .. . . £600,000 £600,000 £030,000
Mortgages .. .. 69,000 66,857 38,714
Sundry creditors . . 127,050 117,623 122,510
Bank overdraft . . 79,880 35,537 20,793
Liabilities . . . . £275,930 £219,017 £188,017
Freeholds .. .. £199,230 £207,511 £209,011
Leaseholds . . . . 25,516 24,626 24,181
Plant, fixtures, etc. .. 46,595 62,631 60,689
Stock 322,896 284,942 270,911
Book debts . . . . 353,249 357,010 359,571
Other assets .. .. 18,560 16,356 34,908
Tangible assets .. £966,045 £943,076 £949,171
The year’s net reduction of £3I,UUO in the
debt was mainly on account of the mortgage,
which was worked down £27,143; o.d. was
lightened by £8(44, but an extra £4887 was
com.ng to trade creditors. The more or less
liquid surplus (£477,373), including stocks,
was £38,082 stronger than when the books
were ruled off at March 31, 1928. But the most
important movement among the assets is the
continued reduction of stocks (down £14,031
during the year). It looks as if the man-
agement has been weeding out dead lines and
livening the turnover in others: that, amongst
other things, means that there is less on the
shelves carrying interest on overdraft. No-
thing is said as to the basis on which stocks
have been written inio the sheet. Valuation
of these assets has always caused this Column
concern, especially in connection with such
cos. as Gordon and Gotch.
For the ords., which could be had at 295.
a little over a year ago, 375. is now asked.
After allowing for the div. and bonus, the
, return at that figure is 6J p.c. on a 12 p.c.
div. basis. The prefs., which carry a fixed
cumulative 8 p.c., are priced at :.’ss. 9d., in-
cluding 9d. div.; allowing for the latter the
return is 6.4 p.c. at the current market
figure. All shares rank equally as regards
capital, and each has a backing of 235. 3d.
in net tangibles.
H. McKenzie, Ltd. (Sydney).
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1920.. 43,409 15 p.c. = 27,570 15,839 74.498
1921.. 45,305 20 ~ „ 36.940 8,365 82.863
Profit on sale of asset, £1,152 .. 84 015
1922.. 26,780 10 p.c. = 20,991 5,789 89,804
Pro.lt on sale of assets, £12,410.. 102,220
1923.. 27,407 10 p.c. = 27.407 102 220
1924.. 11.809 4 „ „ 11,788 21 102',241
Loss
1925.. 34,560 Nil 67,681
Deficit.
Assets written down, £70,000 .. 2,319
Reserves.
Capital written down, £73,674 .. 71.355
Profit on sale of assets, £2,651.. 74,006
1926.. 11,527 Ml 62.4V9
Loss on sale of assets, £15,703 .. 46,776
Deficit.
Reserves disappear, £64,281 .. 17,505
1927.. 3,738 Nil 21,243
Reserves.
Capital written down, £22,102 .. 859
Profit on sale of assets, £1172 .. 2,031
1928.. 107 Nil 1,924
Profit.
1929.. 3,098 Nil 3098 6,022
The improvement in last year’s figures was
all due to the first six months’ operations,
which turned in £4022 net; in the last half,
after setting aside £lOOO for “taxation con-
tingencies,” a loss of £924 showed up. The
year’s gross profit (£58,915) fell away
£672; but exes. (£50,721, including the addi-
tional taxation provision) were £3803
lighter and the amount set aside for deprecia-
tion (£5096) was £74 smaller. The profit was
not enough to warrant payment of a div..; but
considering the disturbed state of the. timber
trade for the past five months, the first
three of which were covered by the last
accounts, the management did well to show
any profit at all. It is the first time that
the co. has balanced on the right side of the
ledger since circumstances forced it to make
its first capital reduction in 1925, when,
owing to the failui’e of its Fraser
Island venture and the fluctuating fortunes
of the Patrick line of steamships, £70,000
was struck off the book value of shares in
other cos., and in the following year all but
£7O of that item disappeared from the
accounts. But the timber trade was, and
still is, undergoing a period of readjustment,
and profits have been difficult to win.
Between 1924 and 1928 the co.’s trading
and net capital losses combined totalled no
less than £196,093. To square accounts
£100,317 of reserves were rubbed out, and
two cuts in capital—one of ss. per share in
1925 and another of Is. 6d. in 1927—were
made. Also Is. Od. per share in “cash nofl
required for business purposes” was re-
turned. All that left paid capital at
£176,819 in 294,698 fully-paid 12s. shares.
After the last writing-down the book value
of the assets was claimed to be sound, but
until conditions in the industry improve
nothing attractive in the way of profits
need be looked for. A year ago the plant,
which had been transferred from Glebe
Island, where the lease had run out, to the
co.’s freehold at Rhodes, was reported to be
running satisfactorily.
This comparison of balance-sheet figures
reflects the big changes that have taken place
in the co.’s affairs during, the last five years :
1924. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital .. .. £294,098 £176,819 £170,819
Liabilities .. .. 88,409 4,892 1,107
Book debts 1 ( 36,611 36,039
Cash, etc. .. 1 49,801 j 4,104 16,577
Deposits at short call J (,
Shares in other cos. .. 106,020 1,810 3,786
Freehold, plant, etc. . . 105,503 99,731 102,031
Stocks 176,023 63,823 50,339
Last year stocks were worked down £13,484,
the cash holding was strengthened by £12,473,
and £3125 was snipped off the debt,
reducing it to £1167. The finances are com-
fortable. The more or less liquid surplus
(£101,788, including stocks) was £3242
stronger than at the previous balance. Fixed
assets, up £2300, are subject to a deprecia-
tion reserve of £24,763, which was drawn
on for £1678, and which is not included
with the lay-by shown above.
The shares have a net tangible backing of
12s. 4d. each, of which the more or less
liquid surplus represents 6s. lOd. The mar-
ket, doubtful of the future, prices the
scrip at 6s. 9d., thereby discounting the book
value of plant, etc., and shares in other
cos. entirely.
Morris, Hedstrom, Ltd.
f Dividends N
Prefs. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. (6 p.c.) Ordinaries. serves, serves.
1921.. 79.177 7,016 10 p.c. = 48,542 23,620 155,928
I. oss.
1922.. 90,074 12,231 Nil 53,623
Deficit,
Assets apparently written down, £119,400 65,777
Profit. Reserves.
Capital reduced £87,000 .. .. 21,223
1923.. 26,856 12,231 Nil 14.626 35,§48
1924.. 50.092 12,373 4 p.c. = 20,201 17,518 63,360
1925.. 59.233 12.514 5 „ „ 25,262 21,467 74.833
1926.. 66.670 12.598 0 .. ~ 30,302 23,770 98,603
Reserve taken in, £15,000.. .. .. 113.603
1927.. 70,328 12,898 7 p.c. = 35,442 21,988 135,591
Transferred to Provident Fund, £5000.. 130*591
1928.. 73,515 13,152 7i p.c. =39,031 21,332 151,923
1929.. 77,090 13,152 8 „ „ 41,633 22,305 174,228
This old-established concern —it was founded
over 60 years ago—carries on the business
of merchants, plantation-owners, etc., with
headquarters at Suva (Fiji). As the eye
sweeps down the columns in the table it is
necessary to remember that, ever since the
co. was caught in the backwash of the post-
war boom, when the assets were apparently
written down £119.400 and £57,000 was struck
off the ordinary capital, leaving a mere hand-
ful of reserves, the declared aim of the board
has been to build up the strength, visible and
otherwise. The care with which the matter
has been attended to may be judged from the
figures. The div. has climbed, by halting
steps, from 4 p.c. in 1924 to 8 p.c. for the
12 months to March 31 last, when an extra
half of one per cent, was added. Also, over
the last half-dozen years, £150,005, or more
than one-third of the disclosed net earnings,
has remained in the business, making the
visible lay-by £174,228 when the books last
closed. It is not a very substantial prop
frr the £739,613 of paid capital—£2l9.2o6 of
it is pref. money carrying a cumulative 6
p.c.—but it is not the only support.
A couple of years ago £15,000 that had
been specifically set aside to cover doubtful
diebts and £lOOOO to provide against fluctua-
tions in investments were tossed into general


ŵ
DELCO-LIGHT
plants by
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd., Sydney.
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd., Melbourne.
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd., Brisbane.
Messrs. Parsons & Robertson, Ltd., Adelaide.
plants by
Messrs. Dangar, Gedye, Ltd., Sydney.
Messrs. Malloch Bros., Perth.
For each of the above plants a special exclusive
type of TUDOR BATTERY is supplied,
specially designed to meet the individual
requirements of the plants.
TUDOR ACCUMULATORS
Australasian Office:
THE TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD. (LONDON),
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.


INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
t
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
The “Explosives” House
Explosives and Accessories of All Kinds
Supplied at Lowest Prices,
Manufacturers of
RENDROCK,
The Safest, Cheapest and Most Effective High Explosive Known.
Can be forwarded by Rail or Steamer at ordinary rates of freight.
Blasting Machines, Steel Rock Drills.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, 10-12ParramattaRoad,Camperdown,Sydney,
Wool & Wheat
k Are Down
What will happen next?
Certainly some invest-
ments will suffer.
The wise man will watch
his little lot.
You may have every-
thing in insurance poli-
cies. All the more
reason to see the offices
are sound. There are
offices that are not
sound.
The leading Australian
authority on all these
matters is
“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY.”
JUNE NUMBER NOW ON SALE
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM,
22/C. From Newsagents, or Bulletin
OlHees, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.— Advt.
* *
*
*
The extreme durability of Pioneer Wood Pipe is
an established fact, and is one of the many reasons
why it is being specified on an increasing number
of ' important installations. Low initial cost, ease,
of handling, low cost of freighting and the fact that
Pioneer Wood Pipe is absolutely non-corrosive, are
other contributing factors to the success of this
modern conduit. It will pa.y those interested to
scud for a free copy of illustrated book of informa-
tion. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns
Bav Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.w.;
and at Footscray, Victoria.— Advt.
*• * *
ORF, AND METAL BUYERS. —Norman Ilill & Co.,
Ltd., Cathcart House, Sydney, Rep. largest American
and ’ European Smelters. Buyers Dirty Tin Ores,
Copper, Lead, Gold, Silver, Antimony, Wolfram,
Scheelite, Tantalite, Molybdenite, and other ores and
concentrates. Properties examined and reported on.
—Advt.
* * * *
Mining Piiopkbties. —l have large London Capital
available for approved Properties—Gold, Tin, lode
or alluvial, and Silver-lead. Reply with particulars
to “London,” e/o Mercantile Exchange, 380 Collins
Street, Melbourne, C.l. — Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coi.uson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best c-radicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. —Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888). hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
INSURE WITH THE
m
Australian General
Insurance Company Ltd.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
11 7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
agents wanted where not represented.
reserves because adequate provision had been
made for these contingencies internally.
Further, a sharp drop in the price of cotton
goods, and losses arising from the liquida-
tion, etc., of a San Francisco co., which a
year ago was expected to pay shareholders
not more than lUs. in the pound, and in
which Morris, Hedstrom had "a consider-
able investment,” have had no visible effect
upon profits. The co., by the way, has now
opened an office of its own at ’Frisco.
Although the purchase, shortly before the
close of accounts in 1927, of Smyth and
Oarruther’s business in Samoa and of the
Wainuni copra plantation livened turnover,
there was a further decline in prices for
Island produce last year, and the manage-
ment did exceedingly well to write gross
profits (£170,463) at £3678 above the 1927
figure. Exes. (£96,801), including, an extra
£3038 visibly struck off for depreciation
t £13.591), took 56.7 p.c. of the gross profit
as against 56.3 p.c. in the previous term;
£3428 was added to the insurance reserve
(£33,793) without comment, and the net
result benefited by £3575. Thus, after hand-
ing the profs, their £13,152, the balance of
the year’s net earnings reached 12.2 p.c. on
average ordinary capital compared with 11.6,
11.3, 10.7, 9.2 and 7.5 p.c. back to 1924.
It all gives the 8 p.c. div. a very comfortable
look; and though it seems inevitable that
the present low prices for sugar and copra
will affect the earnings of Island traders,
and though competition is keen, the
board is confident that the co. will maintain
its position and continue to earn moderate
profits. Indeed, it is in a splendid position
to benefit from any improvement in trading
conditions.
This comparison of balance-sheet figures
reflects the improvement in the health of the
business over the last seven years:—
1922. 1928. 1929.
Overdrafts .. .. £14:1,703 £71,293 £40,384
Mortgages .. •• 21,675 4,100
Deposits . . . . •. 35,98.> 20,750 39,578
Other liabilities .. 66,088 40,110 65,303
Plantations . • . . 73,269 85,084 8;>,323
Land, buildings, plant, etc. 238,823 246,114 254,003
Stocks, etc 225,397 308,989 341,419
Investments and cash.. 248,212 206,706 192,948
Capital value oi
branches, etc. . . 212,461 108,196 129,44 a
Book debts, etc. .. 144,518 102,695 89,361
Last year the overdraft was worked down
£24,909 and the balance of the mortgage was
wiped out, but an extra £18,828 of deposit
money was got in and £25,193 was tacked
on to the amount coming to sundry creditors ;
thus the net increase in the debt (£151,265)
was £15,012. However, finances are comfort-
able enough. Book debts and stocks alone
were £279,515 more than the outside liabili-
ties. The largest and most important item
in the sheet is stocks; nothing has been said
as to the basis on which they have been
taken into the accounts, and much obviously
depends upon that. The increase of £32,430
in their book value during the • twelvemonth
was wholly on account of merchandise
(£237.688) ; produce, which includes copra,
is in at £103,731, practically the same figure,
as at the previous balance. The increase of
£Bl2B in the book value of fixed assets was
due mainly to the erection of new head-
office premises at Suva. Investments
(£191,751, down £13,987 during the year)
are chiefly shares and debentures in sub-
sidiaries in Fiji.
The market prices the pound ords. at
245. Allowing for the final div., the return
at that figure is 6.9 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis. The visible backing, well spread,
amounts to 265. 9d. per share in net tan-
gibles. The prefs., which have priority as to
capital, do not often come on to the market.
They are covered by £4 3s. 4d. per share
in net tangibles, and last year's profit was
over 51 times their annual requirements. A
few months back they could be had around
20s. 6d.
Waihi (M.L.).
For the year to Dec. 31 last this co.
treated 228,749 short tons, and gold and
silver sold brought in £376,685. The figures
include 25,493 tons—624l less than in the
previous term —from the Grand .1 unction,
assaying Bdwt. gold and 2oz. 15dwt. silver,
worth 395. 3d. per ton, against Waihi’s 7.3
dwt. gold and 2oz. 3.6dwt. silver, worth
355. 2d. The combined crushings averaged
355. 7d., compared with 325. Id. in 1927,
the improvement being due to better re-
coveries. Interest, etc., contributed £19,505
and power supplied by the M.L. Government
under the Hora Ilora hydro-electric purchase
w as valued at £10,625. makinc total income
£407.114. Receipts in 1927 totalled £446,536 ;
1926, £383.890; 1925, £398.694. Including
taxation (£23,347), last year’s exes, absorbed
£313.637, and a further £7917 was struck off
for depreciation, leaving a net £85,560, as
against £103,322 for the previous year. The
div. —2s. per share has been paid for the last
eight yehrs—called for £99,181. leaving
reserves at £432,069, of which 89 p.c. is
represented by Government and other
securities.
Development disclos 'd 139,000 tons jf new
ore. but reserves (409,000 tons) are down
80.000 tons. Moreover, nearly half the ore
reserve is in stone which is supporting shafts
and levels. To mine it will mean additional
cost; indeed, it is doubtful whether some
portions could be handled at a profit.
Although financial results for the year have
been good, exploration and development have
been unsatisfactory. The directors say:—
Deterioration with increasing depth has baen
shown clearly in the records of the total ore dis-
covered at each level. In November the position
was carefully considered by the co.’s New Zealand
executive, which recommended that no further ex-
ploration at depth be undertaken. During the past
two years a well-considered programme has been
carried out in all parts of the mine, including
lateral exploration at a number of levels in the
hope of finding other ore bodies parallel to, or
branching from, the known reef system. This has
satisfied the executive that the ore bodies are con-
fined within the block bounded by the Martha,
Edward and Royal lodes. For the future, therefore,
exploration work should be limited to seeking out
only those blocks of pay ore of the existence of
which we feel reasonably certain.
At last year's rate of extraction (218,891
tons) present ore reserves —more than half of
them assay 325. per ton —represent scarcely
two years’ feed for the mills. But this docs
not mean the end of Waihi as a mining co.
The board has been on the look-out for some
time, and, nothing attractive having come
forward in gold, it turned its attention to
tin. In conjunction with Tronoh Mines, Ltd.,
an English concern, it l’ecently bought a
050-acre dredging area on the island of
I’uket, in Siam. Waihi has a two-thirds and
the English co. one-third interest in the
property. No details as to values, costs und
estimated capital outlay have yet been pub-
lished.
The main pillar of Waihi’s strength is its
long list of mostly gilt-edged securities, in
at £384,907, and worth more. Apart from
that, there are more or less liquids, includ-
ing ore at grass (£6378), totalling £97,180,
to meet outside liabilities of £62,745. The
mine and plant are valued at £297,011; the
figure includes the hydro-electric works, for
which the M.L. Government is to pay the
co. £212,500 if) Sept., 1931. Investments in
other mining concerns figure at £12,661.
Paid capital, which was doubled by a gift
issue in Sept., 1927, is £247,954 in 991,814
shares of ss. each. These are now quoted
around 12s. 6d.
‘‘Sulphide Gouger”; Broken Hill has
never been taken into the confidence of the
mining magnates in Melbourne, but it has a
good smelling sense, and the scent suggests big
changes a year or so hence. Bert Carroll,
from the South, John Adam, from Zinc Corp.,
and W. D. Whiteman, of the British, all
underground men. recently returned from the
U.S.A. and Canada, and their talk is mostly
of mass production. The Central has about
completed arrangements for treating Block
14 and Proprietary ores, and is to supply
the Prop, with power when its Diesel plant
is ready. Although it is to treat the ore
from those mines there is no mention of
re-opening Sulphide Corp.’s Junction pro-
perty. North officials recently inspected the
Junction North, and an intimation that the
former co. has taken over the latter’s mine
would be only what is expected. But that
would still leave the Junction between the
British and the North. The Zinc Corp. (or
some other people for whom its officials are
acting) is taking a keen interest in the
old Rising Sun and White Leads leases, be-
longing to the Southern Lodes Continuation
Co.; there is to be a combined power plant,
and new and bigger shafts are being sunk. It
all looks as if in the very near future ore
at the Hill will be mined on the American
liell-for-leather principle by groups consist-
ing of North, Junction North, Junction,
British, Block 14 Prop, (and that means
also the old Block 10) and Central; the
South on its own, and the Sulphide Corpora-
tion pushing out southwards.
* * * *
“Wingella”: Touching a par. about tan-
talite in the N.T. (B. 8/5/’29). Tantalite-
columbite ore, a comparatively rare mineral,
was first noticed in a gneisen dyke
formation in the Finniss River dis-
trict by Charles Clark in 1885. For
a while the ground was worked by an
English co., and later by Chinese, for tin.
In 1905 three European prospectors got a
couple of tons of mixed products, tin and
tantalite, not worth much, and one ton of
clean tantalite, which they sold for £l4O.
The claim was then abandoned until about
24 years ago, when it was taken up again
and worked for tantalite ore. In the West
Arm district tantalite ore was first observed
by F. A. Bleeser (a member of the local
postal staff) over 20 years ago. In Decem-
ber, 1928. Litchfield and Lugg located and
opened up a gneisen dyke formation there,
and samples sent to the Mines Department,
Sydney, assayed: Gold, trace; silver, 2dwt.
4gr. p.t.: tantalic acid, 76.03 p.c.; niobic
acid, 6.53 p.c. There appear to be
at least four different types of tan-
talite ores in North Aus., each con-
taining a distinct tantalic acid content. That
from Litchfield and Lugg’s claim is either of
the massive variety or what may be classed
as manganotantalite.
* * * *
“Let Go”: Queensland Minister for Mines,
Faddy Atherton, is considering whether
ore supplies at Chillagoe warrant re-open-
ing the smelters there. Plenty of low-
grade stuff is available, and, economically
handled, it is possible that the smelters may
be made to pay working exes. The Lubur
Government left a big Treasury overdratt
on the place, and it will take no end ot
good luck and careful management to wipe
it off. Management is to be in the hands
of Mr. Rutledge, formerly an assayer at the
old smelters. .
* * * *■
The Imperial Geophysical Experimental
Survey, which is testing geophysical methods
in Australia, recently surveyed a number ot
areas on the West Coast of Tasmania. As
the result of the work at Renison Bell, where
extensive stanniferous pyrite-pyrrhotite ore
bodies exist, the Federal Tin Syndicate is
to carry out exploratory work under Hart-
well Conder, one-time Tasmania’s State Min-
ing Engineer, and now a mining consultant
as well as a bee-farmer.
* * * *
The prospectus of Wooramel Oil C 0... Ltd.,
in which Sydney is interested, has been issued
in Perth. Nominal capital is £150,000 in £1
shares, of which 70,000 are offered. The
vendors take 89,000 paids, together with
£BOOO, and 50,000 shares are in reserve. 1 lie
co. is to acquire an area on the Wooramel
River, near Carnarvon (W.A.). Dr. Wool-
nough, 11. W. Talbot and other experts have
reported favorably on oil prospects in that
locality. Dr. Woolnough also mentioned the
probability of rock salt being discovered
there.
* * * *
Adelaide has taken the Enterprise, alias
Boulder No. 1, and Golden Pike (W.A.) to
its heart, but so far developments have only
been good enough to justify an extension
of the option. It is now proposed to test
the shoots a depth by diamond drilling. It
is surprising that this method of testing is
not more generally used during option
periods. If it were a lot of cash now mopped
up in haphazard development would be saved.
* * * *
Golden Butterfly Co. (W.A.), which has
shut down for a few months owing to a break-
age in the plant, has published a cheerful
report, by geologist C. G. Gibson, who recom-
mends developmental work at depth. He
says that in view of the general structural
conditions the property, with proper opening
up, should turn out well.
He # H* *
Austral Malay, the doyen of Australian
holding and prospecting cos., gathered
£15,347 from its four working subsidiaries
during the year to Dec. 31 last. With
£9002 brought forward there was £22,937
available; a 3s. 6d. div. took £17,500, and
£5427 was carried forward. The forecast
for the current year is 2s. 6d. per share with
tin at £220, London. The price of the metal
has been ducking beneath the £2OO mark
for some time. Austral Malay’s paid capital
is £lOO.OOO in £1 shares. Much is ex-
pected from its two new flotations, Puchong
and Pungah, which should have the buckets
running before the end of this year.
A.M.’s oldest bantling, Kampong Kamunt-
ing, cleared £39,170 for the year, paid 3s. (id.
a share on the £70,000 capital, and pass cl
£14,000 to reserves, A special fund, built
up to cover the transfer of No. 1 dredge to
new ground at Karangan, totals a' trifle
under £42,000. This plant should be running
by the end of next month. No. 2 dredge has
only about 18 months’ work ahead on the old
property. Here again tin prices are quoted
at £226 when estimating the current year's
divs. at 4s.
Asam Ivumbang paid 3s. 6d. on each of
its 100,000 £1 shares. The net profit was
£18,9u3, and £1469 is carried forward as
against £66 brought in. With tin at £226,
next year’s divs.- are expected to go 2s. a
share. In 1926 they totalled Bs. a share. <
Ulu Yam, which has paid as high as 3s.
per share, is also feeling the pinch. Last
year’s net profit w T as £6247; a div. of 2s. Od.
a share ate up £12,500, cutting down the
carry forward from £6462 to £209. Eighteen-
pence is prophesied as the current year's
hand-out with tin at the rates above quoted.
Thabawleik, a South Burma show, netted
£18,075, and paid 3s. per share, leaving
£279 to go forward. The co. has had con-
tinuous trouble with its plant, and has had
to battle against other difficulties such as
heavy clay digging and water shortage.
Naturally, costs have been abnormally high.
The forecast for the current year is 2s. per
share.
Recent quotations for the foregoing stocks
were : Asam. s. 375. 6d.; Austral Malay,
b. 655., s. 755.; Kampong Kamunting, b.
235. 3d., s. 245. 6d.; TJlu Yam, not quoted;
Thabawleik, b. 355. 3d.
# n= * *
London cables announce the registration
last week of the British American Tin Cor-
poration, with a capital of £1.000.000. The
signatories include Sir Hugo Cunliffe Owen,
Chairman of the British American Tobacco
Co.; Lord Brabourne and O. G. Hoare, both
directors of Consolidated Goldfields of South
Africa; Sonor Carlos Aramayo, chairman of
the Aramayo Mines group in Bolivia; Sir
Jolm Millions, until recently Government
broker on the London Stock. Exchange; Sir
Hugh Micklem, a partner in the banking
firm of Cull and Co.; John IloWeson. of the
Anglo-Oriental Mining Corporation, and the
Caracolles Tin Co. of Bolivia, which re-
presents the interests of Guggenheim Bros.,
of New York. All British tin cos. are beina
asked to link up with the interests mentioned
in the formation of a tin producers’ association.
Australian cos. will also be represented in
this latest attempt to stabilise the world's
tin market. Whether it will be any more
successful than a recent American venture
on the same lines is for the future to say.
In any case, an endeavor is being made to
swing* most, if not all, of the tin-producing
countries into line, and this gives better
promise of success than previous efforts. J he
hacking of the new venture is reassuring in
this respect.


Australians, Be Australians
Last year’s imports from United States
Last year’s exports to United States . .
£41,000,000
8,000,000
Surplus of capital handed to U.S.A. . . £33,000,000
This is equivalent to making a present of 10 of the latest and fastest cruisers, stocked with enough ammunition to blow our capi a ci les
of existence to the only nation that challenges Our Supremacy of the Seas.
U.S.A. return for this philanthropy— . . . .. .
Our Champion Band was not allowed to give performances in their country, yet we open our doors to their Black and White Arasn.
Our Commonwealth Bank had to close its doors in New York because Australians and others might make deposits. _ ...
They dumped our Australian apples in the San Francisco Harbor and then filled the same ship with American apples and sold them
in Australia.
They lowered the price of our ‘W^ool.
They lowered the price of our Wheat. , . . . , :u
They would not allow United States Talkies to be projected from an Australian machine m Australia, a machme which is built and
sold eight times cheaper than the foreign article.
WILL YOU GET WISE?
N.S.W. imports: 1927-28 £60,409,711 1928-29 £57,969,615
N.S.W. exports: 49,133,922 47,043,554
We spent . . £11,265,789 £10,926,061
In two years we spent £22,191,850 more than we earned and replaced it with borrowed money at high interest.
RESULT
Increased Taxation, High Cost of Living, Lowering of Wages, Bad Trade. The Capitalist with his money, the Laborer with his Labor, must
pay this deficit. „ . , . t . . ... .
£12,000,000 is sent overseas each year for motor-cars. Prevent bankruptcy of our nation by maintaining this money in your country.
Invest your capital in the _
Australian-made Motor Cars & Aeroplanes Ltd.
(TO BE INCORPORATED UNDER THE COMPANIES ACTS 1899-1918.)
CAPITAL, £2,ooo,ooo—divided into 2,000,000 shares of £1 each.
Present Issue £500,000
In 500,000 Shares of £1 each, payable 2/6 per share on application,
2/6 per share on allotment
Calls 1/6 per share at intervals of not less than one month. _ . CTI
No free shares are given or cash consideration paid to any person or persons. ALL SHARES ARE TO BE PAID FO
The Directors’ qualifications embrace sound
experience in finance, industry, technique
and marketing, thus ensuring a safe and
well-informed decision in all that the Board
undertakes.
The Board will make use of the numerous
well-equipped existing plants in Australia
producing parts for automobiles, but they
have mapped out a complete manufacturing
plant to produce the complete chassis, and
will as quickly as possible place orders for
a complete manufacturing plant with British
Machine Tool Makers to produce 100 com-
plete chassis per week for a 6-Cylinder Car.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
EDWARD M. DAVIES, Consulting Engineer, 16
Hunter Street, Sydney.
C. W. BUTLER, Business Manager, 343 Miller
Street, North Sydney.
C. W. DAVIES, Engineer, 26 Kulgoa Road, Belle-
vue Hill.
Four more Directors to be appointed.
Directors to be appointed in each State.
OFFICE OF THE COMPANY:
Turner’s Chambers, Hunter Street, Sydney.
ẁ
ẃ
Generators
Starters
Pumps
Gearboxes
Housings
Bolts and Nuts
Bumper-bars
Lamps
Steering-wheels
Axles
Pressed-steel Works
Engines
Crank Cases
Instrument-boards
Instruments
Etc., Etc.
Ip the U.S.A. there are some 45 Car-manufacturing Companies producing 134 different Models, or three models to each manufacturer,
where there is a population of 120,000,000, or one manufacturer to every 2,666,000 of population. Is Australia inferior in ability, etc.?,
for there is no reason why one Car, representing one of the best sellers now imported, should not be made in our country onj
mass-production lines at a popular price for a population of 0.335,000 people.
DISBURSEMENT OF CAPITAL
ESTIMATE OF PkOFITS
The compilation of figures representing an estimate of profits is a most problematic analysis at the best of times, and although your
directors have confidential figures, such are not for publication. A summary, however, may best be presented in a simple way easily
understood, as follows:
The factory .cost (wages and raw materials) of a popular 6-Cylinder American Touring Car is less than £BO
This car is sold in the U.S.A. for . . £247
The same car is sold in Australia for £398
Wages, Salaries, Overheads are actually less in Australia than in U.S.A., so that if the same kind of manufacturing plant is installed here
and the same manufacturing methods are adopted, the cost of production should not be very different.
Instead of the huge profits made by American Car Manufacturers and the big profits made by the successful Distributing Companies in
Australia, the company is satisfied with merely a net profit of £25 per car, then the result should be as follows:
NET PROFIT
5000 cars at £25 net profit per car
APPROPRIATION
Income tax at 4/3 in £
Reserves, 9.7 p.c. on £500,000, say . .
£125,000
£26,600
48,400
Dividend, 10 p.c. on £500,000 50,000
£125,000
Car owners and prospective car owners would do well to invest £lOO in shares
in the company because, apart from receiving a substantial return on their
investment, they are in no uncertain manner building up the prosperity of this
great Australian Nation.
You will be proud to own an Australian-made car, and, what is more, you will
get a car of equal value in materials, workmanship and appearance at £lOO
less than you now pay for a 6-cylinder car, so that not only will you have your
car, but £lOO worth of stock in a successful company.
To complete the issue quickly, all that is required is 5000 car owners to
subscribe £lOO each in the capital of the company, so sign and forward this
application form.
APPLICATION FOR PROSPECTUS, AND FURTHER
INFORMATION.
The Directors, AUSTRALIAN-MADE MOTOR-CARS & AEROPLANES, LTD.,
Turner’s Chambers, Hunter Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —Please supply me with copy of your prospectus and all further
particulars appertaining to AUSTRALIAN-MADE MOTOR CARS & AERO-
PLANES, LTD.
NAME IN FULL
ADDRESS
OCCUPATION
ORDINARY SIGNATURE
Date
192
Bulletin 26/6/’29.


I
JR
■ /
■ ■■
ms > \
* i! V
■ • ;
tel? iisnk
; ■
mi t «
4:
il fcS«
I
H
"111-Tf'
IK
Lli'TflrH*
U
. as
Mil
' %*
l
SLIMNESS AND BEAUTY THIS EASY WAY—
LEICHNER 1001 the well-known weightreducer warm bath. The
ledu“L to oK“is m brought’abourin an natural action of the human system and does not have any harmful effect
on the heart or kidneys. » i nn i
Medical reports state that a reduction of as much as 31b. after a single bath has been obtam.d w.th Letchner 1001.
Medtcal rep THE ONLY EFFECTIVE WAY OF WEIGHT REDUCTION.
The most surprising feature o'f Leichner Slim Figure Bath 1001 is its rejuvenating effect, and after a few baths the skin regains
its elasticity and becomes a beautiful lily-white.
LEICHNER 100 l
For Particulars , complete attached
Coupon and mail to —
Retail price, 4/- per packet (post free, 4/6) Obtainable from your chemist and
leading city stores, or from the Sole Australian Agents:
MESSRS. LOHMANN & CO., LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, G.P.O. Box 804 G, Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS ..


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glassy Pub-
lic Pisk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc
£
THE GREYS
SIZEnTWO
SILKCUT VIRGINIA
They Satisfy
because they are made from 100
per cent, pure Virginia tobacco,
thoroughly matured. “Greys”
have a reputation they cannot
afford to lose; they are therefore
consistent in their perfect quality.
“Greys” protect your palate and
leave no after taste. Let your
next smoke be a “GREYS.”
DRAP
LONDON
£© for <j)dl. CIGARETTES 2® for £/©
Of course you
know “Greys
Heavyweights”
are now 1/- for
10; 2/- for 20.
yy a
aI
rAC
The Sign of
QUALITY
The Wunderlich Trademark is
a sign of quality it is your
guarantee of sterling value in
the following materials:—
Art Metal Ceilings, Terra Cotta
Roofing Tiles, Asbestos Cement
(Durabestos) Building Sheets.
Look for the trademark on these
products, when you purchase.
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
ABORIGINALITIES
n o ”. t a -tr u t r
0.U.0. : J. A. Kershaw, director of
->r „ ... , 1 , , ,
L ' ‘ t useum > Wlb be pleased to hear
Irom the owners of examples of Australian
abo. art or craft, such as paintings on bark,
carved wooden weapons or implements, deco-
rated shields, totems, churingas, woven
caskets, ceremonial feather decorations and,
, . ... .. , .. . ‘ ,
11 ' • ai, .vthing that, displays the abo. s
decorative talents. The loan or gift of such
SEEMED TO BE RELATIONS, ANYWAY.
DINER: “Here, I ordered sole.”
WATER: “Sorry, sir. Sole's off, sir. Leather-jacket was the nearest I could get to it, sir.”
things is appealed for, the object being to
hold a comprehensive exhibition of abo. art,
opening on July 1. A feature of the exbibi-
tion will be a model cave-shelter with rock
carvings, and two abos. of Lake Eyre district
will demonstrate the wood-working, stone-
flaking and weaving crafts of their tribe,
“Pfella” • Sammy, my blacktracker, and I
had been riding without a let-up for 10 hours
in the nor’-west of Groperland, and we were
pretty sick of the saddle when the moon
found us I kept shifting my position to
ease the cramp in my legs, but Sammy sat
solid. “Why don’t you shift a little in
the saddle Sammv to ston vourself from
<'ettin°- sore’” T asked “No fear” declared
aeXTnoo ma“ hoI e V come too quiok
in riding-breeches!”
i‘ * *
“Pudden”: A very gifted linguist
was a corella who lived at the pub
at Katherine Crossing (N.T.), and
he had a sense of humor. The cross-
ing was long and steep, with a take-
off from a sandy bottom. It was a
big pull for ' a loaded team, and
evoked much sweat and profanity.
When a team was sighted or heard,
Cocky, if he wasn’t tended, would fly
down to the bank of the river and
wait, for it. He’d perch himself in
a gum-tree, and assume 'a saintly
expression. He’d wait till the team
was about half-way up the bank,
when horses were straining and slip-
ping, when men were swearing and
running, when sweat was pouring
and things were just on the balance.
Then, “Who-o-a !” a voice would call
soothingly. Every horse would stop,
the waggon would begin to run back,
the horses would stagger to hold it,
the driver would curse the offsider
for calling the horses to stop; the
offsider would indignantly deny the
charge; tempers would rise; fists
would fly, and the team and waggon
would be in a tangled heap at the
bottom of the crossing. Then the
corella would flit home, fly into the
bar and accost his owner: “Give us
a drink, Joe,” he’d demand. While
he sipped his beer he’d listen and
pick up some new expressions from
the turmoil outside. He learned
many new swear-words that way,
and acquired a wide selection.
“Hayband”: I wasn’t aware that bees
worked at night, but they do. At 9 p.mr:
recently I was standing in my garden. Hear-
ing the hum of insects, I got a lantern and
investigated. Every tangled mass of flowers
was swarming with bees. Possibly it was
the profusion of blooms which led to over-
time being worked.
He :i: Hi *
“Metallique” : One of the most irrational
superstitions cherished by bushmen is that
the heat of the sun’s rays or the heat
generated by filing will alter the temper of
a steel too]. The basis of the belief is very
easily deduced. The man who leaves bis
tools lying around in the open under the sun
is just as likely to leave them out under rain
or dew, which means rust corrosion of the
cutting edges of knives, saws and axes. Simi-
larly, filing is a clumsy way of sharpening
axe or knife, and, unless very intelligently
done is liable to ruin a saw too. Grinding,
on emery-wheel or sandstone, generates as
much heat as filing, but I have never heard it
complained that it destroyed the temper of
anything more substantial than a razor. The
temperature at which the_ temper of steel is
affected is considerably higher than JOOdeg.
P-> which is about the maximum that cap
bo «PPM to » sate or an axe by filing
°r grinding, or the 200 deg. 1. which is the
best the sun can do, even at the Equator.
UP TO DATE.
CLASS-LEADER: “Brethren, we must be ready to jump when .Gabriel blows his horn.”
MRS. BETTY TREVITHICK ( startled ): “Goodness! Be he in one of they moty-carsf”
“Up Top” : If the Salv’arruy cared to start
missionising in New Guinea it would leave
all other denominations without a single
convert. Papuans and Kanakas love music,
and the combination of drums, blaring brass,
tambourines and red jerseys would send .them
into transports of delight. Every tribe in
the dark continent would come down from its
mountain fastnesses and follow the blood-,
and-fire folk to Hell, if the big drum led that
way. Ilcad-hunters, woman-eaters, child-
slayers, Ku-ku Ivu-kus, Duk-Duks, Iviwai-
ans, Oriekavas, Swamp-men—every colored
heathen in the Possession would flock to the
rattle of the tambourine. It would mean the
holus-bolus conversion of a continent; but
I hope the Army .won't take my tip, for the
Papuan is contented and happy as lie is,
and has plenty to cat. Missioned en masse
he mightn’t be so well off.
* * * *
“Thomas Pepper”: May I. add to “Top-
Off’s” store of lore concerning that curious
little mammal the popogloss (Poppii spit-
atcha) ? On the approach of an enemy, such
as the fantailed sandsheik (Marcellairii
winkatum) the timid popogloss puts its
tail in its mouth, springs into the air and
swallows its b°dy completely in a single
convulsive gulp. Then, being inside itself,
the creature is, of course, invisible. When
the danger is past the popogloss puts out an
eye-stalk to make sure the coast is clear,
vomits itself up, and becomes visible again.
The only time this rare and shy monotreme
can be captured is when its gills catch on
its teeth, so that it becomes stuck half-way
down. Even then, however, it has to be
handled carefully, as many a museum etymo-
logist has found to his sorrow, for the
instant you free its gills from its _ teeth it
completes the swallowing operation and
vanishes.
* * * *
“Pick”: Sudden fright has caused the
death of more than one horse. A spirited
fellow driven in a sulky on the Queanbeyan
road mpt coming into town a circus caval-
cade in which marched two camels. At the
unusual sight the prad plunged wildly,
backed, and fell dead in the shafts.
On the Cobargo road a pony that had
developed roguishness from constant petting
refused to pull on coming to a hill. After a
lot of futile coaxing his driver lashed the
slacker with a whip. He gave a wild snort,
reared, and fell dead. On his first sight of
a traction-engine, a Bombala horse dropped
dead in his paddock.
jSc * * *
“C.Q.”: At Mount William, a hill com-
manding a beautiful view, about 50 miles
north of Melbourne, Australia’s first pro-
tected industry had its birth. It was the
Sheffield of Victoria, where axeheads,
knives—but not forks —and other household
utensils were manufactured from the out
crops of diabase, one of the . toughest rocks
in the world. The Binghi stonesmiths quar-
ried their raw material in shallow pits
heaving away the faulty pieces, so that tin
country is littered \yit h their fragments as
if numerous charges of gelignite had beei
put into the hill. The outcrop is 15 miles
long, but only one spot was consistently
worked. This was where the protection
came in. Some miles from the main working
is another mine where the percentage of
good flints to flawed ones was mueh higher,
but there are signs that it was not fully
exploited. The family which owned the
original mine saw to that. The record of
private ownership of the plant comes down
to historical times—there was a tribal law-
suit about it in 1840. Mount William axes
were traded for skins, weapons and food as
far afield as Mount Gambier and Yass
(N.S.W.).
:|: * *
“Franklin” : Here’s my entry for the beer-
chewing championship. At the Royal Hotel,
Gilgandra, three swipers for a wager con-
sumed respectively 45, 44 ahd 42 ordinary
glasses of beer, drunk as fast as the late
Ivan Curran could pull them, and lie was
no sluggard. The winner, a carrier, had
an advantage. He had just unyoked his
team after a dry and thirsty trip. After
a brief interval the contestants proceeded to
treat each other to further draughts of ale
as if nothing unusual had occurred, and at
the end of a convivial outing they were no
more than mellow.
Hs Jfc 3{c $
“AdeL.”: In the tussocky swamps fring-
ing the streams that flow out of the coastal
ranges westward of Burketown (Q.) lives
the world’s, smallest mammal and our tiniest
marsupial, one of the lesser phascogale ( Ph.
ingrami). It is a mouse-like, insectivorous
creature, feeding chiefly on the young crickets
that abound in the swamps. When dug out
of coyer the alert male soon disappears, but
the tiny doc is slower of movement, especi-
ally if impeded by her numerous young,
five to six at a. time. Hanging for dear life
to her nipples, they render the mother help-
less. Thus cornered, she looks dolefully to
the enemy without attempt at escape. The
creatures make charming little pets, feeding
readily from one’s hand and nestling com-
fortably in one’s pocket. The males of this
species greatly outnumber the female, pos-
sibly because of their superior alertness.
“Willah”: However overjoyed Moir and
Owen may have been to land at Cape Don,
I imagine they were no less pleased to leave,
for the mangrove swamps and mudflats which
practically surround the lighthouse buildings
breed a most aggressive brand of sandfly,
and breed ’em in millions. The keepers and
their families live in a perpetual haze of
smoke from smudge fires, without -which life
would be less worth living than it is now—
and that’s not saying much. Working tor-
toise-shell helps these lonely folk to forget
their troubles to some extent. The work is
sold to Chinese in Darwin, who retail it
(at an enormous profit) to the simple tour-
ist from the South.
(Continued on page 25.)
THE GIRL FROM TOWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You’d think to see ’er move around she was
a bloomin’ queen.
An’ all the blokes an’ janes up ’ere were
waybacks wild an’ green,
’Cos we ain’t done wot she ’as done an’
seen wot she ’as seen.
She ain’t got ’ardly any ’air an’ ’ardly any
clothes ;
She walks jist like a pacin’ mare, a-mincin’
as she goes; 4
There’s paint upon ’er lips an’ cheeks an’
powder on ’er nose. >
She went to ’Oran’s ’op last night an’ did
the latest out,
An’ when I asked ’er for a dance you should
’ave seen ’er pout,
An’ just becos I ’urt ’er foot she -sez “You
country lout!”
She wouldn't think o’ milkin now since she’s
learnt city ways;
She only torks o’ sheiks an’ blues an’ movie-
shows an’ plays.
It makes me wild to ’ear’ er yap—it does,
Lord spare me days!
An’ just to think two year ago I seen ’er
“dairy-fed,”
A-yardin' in the muck an’ slime an’ cleanin’
out the shed! -
Now just becos she slaves in town she’s gone
right off ’er ’ead !
VICTORIA.
P.T.F.


. -v ;'Vy:-w-'
• • •:
■i
■IvV
>r
m
ft)
0,
m
wv;
/ /
f-3
m
( r"
r
i
Ir'.f
■Vi
IK
r
\ $$
' SS
■'< 1
*• • N
"1
SK<ll
>:
"ii
•• ss
ill
S/ / >*■ '
|ikw
|\ -
X X n\W\V. x nvsWWW S'
ELECT a Mills
try it on. In every
line and aspect its
appeal is so appar-
ent that no man
can afford to disregard its
merits.
at that suits Lfourlersorialitu
Obtainable at all the
leading Men’s Stores
A PRODUCT OF UNITED FELT HATS PTY-
LTD


NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelfiti
Dynamite
Safety fuss
Detonators
Cartridges
Hadfields
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS —DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadlields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
ẅ
w
Branch (
Office )
422 Collins Street. Melbourne. Vic.
T. & G. Building, Brisbane. Q
Convenient
m
06 olMml
hi;
At " The Australia ” you are in the heart of
everything—time and travelling alike are saved
you.
This sketch from the promenade roof shows four
well-known Banking Houses, also the Tourist
Bureau offices and the clock tower of the G.P.O.
„ (chime silent during night hours).
Stay at "The Australia” and you will ap-
preciate its notable convenience.
Wireless, Cable and Telegraphic
Address: rr Austraotel, Sydney
Capital Paid-up, £ 422,100.
THE HOTEL OF THE
COMMONWEALTH
SYDNEY.
ŵ
“Boronia”: A fire that broke out last
December in a wheat-field near Cunderdin
(W.A.), and destroyed over 100 acres of
grain before it could be arrested, had a
peculiar origin. Six months before the out-
break, clearing had been completed in an
adjoining paddock. Near the edge of the
cultivated land a large gimlet-tree had been
burned down, and it was clearly proved that
the fire had smouldered along one of the
thick roots of the tree, and, reaching a
spot where the root came near the surface
of the field carrying ripened wheat, had
caused the blaze.
“Bad Australian”: “Maxie” traverses my
remarks touching the edibility of the big
yellow-and-black scavenger lizard known
throughout Australia as the goanna, and my
views as to what should happen to the citi-
zen found with a skinful of go’ meat, and
then drags in an inoffensive and entirely
irrelevant reptile which he nominates as a
genuine go’ common to practically the whole
of this continent. “Maxie’s” assurance that
his red herring is regarded as a favorite
article of diet from the Bight to Beerbur-
rum by all classes of bush society, from the
“I suppose you suffered a good bit from the floods last month, Dad?"
“Suffered? My oath I did I was cooped up in the house with the old gal for nearly
a week.”
lowly Arunta buck to the lordly squatter
and his cobber the jackeroo, knocks another
of my pet delusions kite-high. Wandering
through this sunny land on my more or less
lawful occasions, I always imagined the
squatter and his offsider as supporting the.
heat and burden of the day on caviare, pate
dc foie gras, roast turkey and a bottle or
two of sparkling hock. And to think that
ifc was only ljlain roast or sou3ed S° anna
and eucalyptus-flavored billabong water,
' 01 a . ■
_ •
“James B.”: About 05 years ago, when I
was a small boy on the shores of Lake
George, a tribe of abos. camped near our
place, on their annual walk from the Yass to
the Braidwood district. On my way to
school, seeing unusual excitement in the
camp, my curiosity overcame my fear, and
I stopped to see what was doing. The blacks
had caught two huge snakes, a black and a
brown, alive, and while two men held the
heads of the squirming brutes with fork-
sticks, a third'lashed tlieir tails securely to-
gather. At a given signal the heads were
released, and the snakes made frantic efforts
to get away from each other. Finding this
of no avail, they turned, and the light was
on. The reptiles hit and writhed and twisted
like lightning. The men yelled, the women
and children screamed, and 300 dogs harked
in 100 different keys, while 1 stood paralysed
with fear and excitement. Finally one of
the brutes got a stranglehold on the neck
of tin; other, and after a convulsive
shudder the defeated one rolled over dead,
The victor had hut little time to exult in his
victory, for in a few minutes he, too, was
dead. I was late for school, but it was worth
a licking to see that scrap.
... ~. * I|t
U r\ . » m, •, , , .. '
~ 9°- u^ t!r i - a: Kea ', as disturbing
the minds of quite a number of New Guinea
white folk during recent years that house-or
cook-boy may not be above poisoning off
Taubada 0 r Sinabada should lie, cherish a
g rn dge. The Papuan can-smile and do his
WO rk cheerfully with bitter hatred in his
]) ( . ai q- ( aa d the few scattered little cemeteries
0 f the dark Possession have • sleepers who in
tlie opinion of some didn't die from natural
causes. Papuan poisons aren’t known to
medical science, and diagnosis is difficult. It
is known that some natives pop finely-pow-
dered bamboo in the food of an enemy,
Others favor the “red death,” a scarlet fun-
goid growth that is quite tasteless. It has
the effect in small doses of inducing catarrh,
followed by irritation. Stronger doses pro-
duce a septic throat, and repeated doses a
very painful death. There is a .species of
red coral which gives almost identical re-
suits. Both red poisons arc known to the
Torres Strait islanders, who years ago used
regularly to trade with Now Guinea. The
sorcerers of various tribes scattered through-
out the Possession are hereditary herb-
poisoners, and one can only guess how many
death-dealing preparations they can lay
hands on.
* * * *
“Up Top”: It pained me when I saw that
“Hamer” (B. 12/6/'2D) had taken my name
in vain in the course of his controversy with
himself. The dinkum facts are these. We had
dug in at the Doo-Drop Inn in George-street
Sydney, having dug out Major Haveaspot!
whom we honored so long as he did the
honors. A. dog strolled into the bar and
scratched a shower of fleas. Those insects
flew nn and drank our beer. In no time they
were ?s big as wallabies. By the time
thev had drunk all the liquor in the bar
thev were foaming at the mouth and had
„ ro wn to the size of kangaroos. They then
began to chew glass, and became fightable,
gnashing their teeth in anything .but a mild
manner. The dog was torn to shreds and
THE HEIGHT OF HIS IMAGINATION.
SMALL BOY (to mother): “Gee, Mum, I bet he wouldn’t have to stand on the rubbish-
tin to talk to the lady in the next yard."
the barmaids fled in terror. I crawled under
the sofa, but “Hamer” was there already,,
trying to disguise himself with Major Havea-
spot's eyeglass. Police were routed with
ignominy, and firemen were defeated by the
fleas gnawing holes in their hoses. A squad-
ron of aeroplanes arrived three weeks later,
when the fleas had grown to the size of
elephants. A general massacre of Sydney
was averted by a little barmaid with big
brown eyes who sprinkled salt on each flea’s
tail, which was fatal. “Hamer” has since,
I am told, gone in for fiction ; Major Ilavea-
spot has gone into liquidation and the
barmaid into hysterics. I expect to be out
next month. ’
* * * *
“The Office Cat”: Picking my way deli-
cutely over the desk of the Man who baskets
most of the really interesting paragraphs
sent in for this Page—l mean those about
Cats—l found no fewer than Six dealing
with a subject of breathless interest to the
Feline Race. “Hamer,” one of the world’s
great cat-lovers, had put it on record in this
place that he had never seen one of our
species ( Ilouseholdii tabbicattii). Out of
Breath. Six Creatures, probably Human,
had written to say that they had. I conceal
the dreadful details. The Man, either be-
cause lie didn’t Believe it, or for some other
Fortunate Cause, put the papers in the Bas-
ket next morning. This is to inform him
and others that We do not, like Dogs and
other Low' Animals, Pant and Gasp in
Public. Any Creature clever enough to chase
a Cat into a Corner finds that owing to our
Sensitive Constitutions we do not Pant, but
Spit at the end of the very Longest Chase,
’** * *
“Up North” : The pack-track to what was
one of the richest diggings on the Palmer
goes through Hell s Gate, a precipitous nft
in tlie mountain range strangely similar to
khe Khyber Pass, and used similarly by the
native inhabitants. The abos. along the
Palmer were the bravest and most warlike
in the Peninsula. They were cunning, too,
and waitefl until the nairqw pass was a
with struggling diggers. Then, to a chorus
of yells, the bucks volleyed spears and
rolled great rocks down the mountain sides,
The bottom of the pass is bare rock, and
its walls are abrupt cliffs, so that the
ambushed men below could rarely get a clear
shot at the yelling blacks. The pass was
the scene of such fearful tragedies that
finally the gold-seekers abandoned it and
trudged many miles around the mountains
to dodge the death-trap. It was at Hell’s
Gate that Christy Palmerston collected toll
from Chinamen.
“Sea Nomad”; Joe Forbes sailed in the
schooner Statescombe in 3524 for the Timor
Islands. The crew wasi massacred by natne
pirates, the vessel looted and burned, ana
Forbes and a lad taken prisoner, lhe laa
soon died. . Forbes lived through-tortures
and mutilations until rescued m 1849. vvmie
cruising the Arafura Sea, Captain Watson,
of the ship Essington, heard from a Dutch
skipper that an English prisoner was held
by the native pirates at Timor Laiit. When
Watson sighted the place he hurried most
of his well-armed crew up into the foretop,
where they hid with a good view of the
deck. The brass guns were rammed with
grape and canister and covered with tar-
paulins. The ship looked an easy prey to
the spy canoes that soon boarded her. Wat-
son watched until a big chief in bird-of-
paradise regalia came aboard, and then hos-
pitably declared that the chief must be his
guest for the night. He gained the haughty
one’s confidence, and eventually learned that
the' white captive was at a near-by village.
At sundown the others natives were, shooed
overboard, and the chief was invited to sit
on the skylight while Watson showed him
presents. One present was a brightly-
polished handcuff. Watson slipped a link
around his own ankle, showing the chief
what a fine ornament it made. He then tried
it on the chief’s ankle, and slipped the
other link on to a handy ringbolt. “Now,”
lie said, “hand over the white man or I’ll
string you up to the yardarm!” When the
canoemen came back in the morning they
found their chief standing bound on a crate
with a rope around liis neck, with hefty
sailors holding tlie other end of the rope as
it swung from the yardarm. Armed men
were up in the rigging, and cannon frowned
from the decks. The cut-throats surren-
dered the captive, or, rather, what was left
of him. Forbes couldn’t walk. Among
other choice tortures liis captors had put
red-hot coals on his belly. He was many
months in Sydney Hospital before he could
hobble about, and he was never again quite
sane,
* * * *
“Hayband”: In March three houses at
J . , .
Summer Hill, Sydney, were taken down to
make way for a picture theatre. Recently
a fourth was bought and also demolished,
jj eaV y rain fell the day after the job w r as
comnlctod Next dav there was a tinge of
completed. i\ext aay mere was a unge oi
green on all the sites, and in a week a
healthy growth of grass and weeds. This
was understandable on the earlier sites;
there had been time for wind, or other
agency, to deposit seeds there. But how
can the growth on the fourth be explained,
It was general over the whole suiface, and
there hadn t been time for such wholesale
transportation. Were the seeds built over
when the house was erected, and is it pos-
sible that they retained sufficient vitality
to germinate 45 years later?
THE ROUND-UP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Grey blots on a greying twilight,
They stream from the stockyard gate,
Their eyes to a far star’s high light,
Like shadowy gnomes of fate.
Like destiny’s ruthless forces
They pass over range and plain,
Their quarry the lithe-limbed horses,
Unsullied of bit or rein.
Faint crack in the ranges’ stillness
An end to the dreaming calls,
And over the wild steeds chillness
Of fear, like a mantle, falls.
Too late ! For their fate is round them—
A fate that is sure as day—
And destiny grim has found them,
The price of their breed to pay. ♦
Eyes widened in shining terror,
Wild manes in the night a-toss,
They flee for their final error
Wet-flanked ’neath the careless Cross.
With the station’s best behind them
They thunder in panic flight,
And the pitiless whips will find them
If they turn to the left or right.
Far back now their mountain fastness;
All roads to freedom barred,
Still over the plainland vastness
They race for the station yard.
Ere yet the stars in their courses
Have paled to Day’s conquering hand,
The last of the wild bush horses
Is claimed for the station brand.
N.s.w.
HOMFREY BEALE.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
ẃ
The meat may be cut in neat pieces instead
of being minced, so that it is later suit-
able for pies, etc.
In the sentence commencing “No dis-
trict nor branch manager has the right
. ...,” should “or” be substituted for “nor”?
Can you quote any authority on the subject?
—544.
Fowler (“Modern English Usage”) gives
Examples showing that “nor” should follow
“no” in such a sentence as you have quoted.
But The Bulletin would knock out the n
if the nouns described one person or thing.
For instance, “No chief cook or chef would
produce such a dish.” If two persons or
things were referred to it would knock
out the “no” and substitute “neither,”
without, however, suggesting that the other
is technically wrong.
(1) When was “Dot and the Kangaroo ”
published? (2) Who and what was the
author? —265.
(1) 1599. (2) Written by Ethel Pedley
and published after her death. Daughter of
Richard Pedley, dentist, of London, she was
born at Acton, England. Coming to Aus-
tralia she resided with her mother at Strath-
field, Sydney, till her death, August 8, 1898.
(1) For what number of other worlcers
( butchers, bakers, hairdressers, etc.) would
300 men permanently employed provide em-
ployment? (2) Distribution of male bread-
winners in Australia according to class of
work at last census? —213.
(1) In view of the interdependence of all
industries and professions in modern life,
impossible to estimate. For example, would
you include the people employed by the
butcher and the baker? And how far would
you go in dealing with the tailor? (2) Pro-
fessional, 121,926; domestic, 50,105; com-
mercial, 275,956; transport and communica-
tion, 201,001: industrial, 606,731; primary
producers. 589,333.
(1) What do psychologists mean when
they describe a person as suffering from am,
inferiority complex? (2) How overcome?
—3OB.
The resented feeling that the other fellow
is better than you are. In a state of true
humility the individual accepts the facts
honestly and does not resent them. (2) It
may show itself by stammering, feelings of
injustice, bad temper or actions of a ner-
vous character. Sometimes it may be “over-
compensated” for by undue aggressiveness
of manner or rudeness. Until poise is
attained, generally some time after adol-
escence, children who are of a nervous dis-
position are likely to suffer such a com-
plex. The condition needs careful sympathy
and constant but not over-obvious encourage-
ment.
(1) Railway open for traffic in
N.S.W. June 30, 1928 ? (2) Cost of con-
struction and equipment? (3) Interest? (4)
Earnings and working expenses? (5) Defi-
cit? (6) Length of railways classed as non-
paying?—4B2.
(1) 5867 miles. (2) £117.984,374. (3)
£5,882,452. (4) Earnings, £19,029,512;
working expenses, £14,756,327. (5)
£1,609,267. (6J 3375 miles.
Method of cleaning and whitening clothes
in the wash?— 2B4.
Add a small handful of powdered borax to
each copper of water. A good bleaching mix-
ture is made as follows: Dissolve Jib.
chloride of lime in 2 quarts boiling water, and
when nearly dissolved add lib. washing soda.
Strain through flannel, and use the clear por-
tion for taking out spots, stains, mildew, etc.
Should be put on with a brush, left) a while,
and rinsed out in water containing ammonia.
A cupful may be added to a copper of water
for boiling clothes. Yellowed clothes may be
boiled in water containing a little blue.
How to kill pepper and ■sugar-gum trees, by
poison ? —648.
Ringbark the tree by cutting a frill around
the trunk by downward cuts with an axe,
thus forming a gutter into which an arsenic
solution should be poured from an old teapot
or other convenient container. A suitable
solution is made by dissolving with gentle
heat loz. arsenic and 3oz. washing-soda in 3
pints water. If only a few trees are to be
treated, it would be more convenient to pur-
chase a liquid arsenical weed-destroyer from
a seedsman and use diluted 1 to 25 with
water. These.solutions are highly poisonous
and great care should be exercised in hand-
ling them.
What is the new Wapiti flying machine?
—578.
The Wapiti is a two-seater general-
purpose machine fitted with a 450-h.p. Bristol
Jupiter radial engine, built by Westland
Aircraft Cos., Yeovil, Eng. It has a top speed
of approximately 142 m.p.h. at a service ceil-
ing of approx. 23,000 ft. Dimensions: span,
46.42 ft.; length, 31.7 ft.; height, lift.
I have a brick cottage which has been
painted several times on the outside walls.
The paint has now cracked and peeled'. Best
way of removing paint, and best kind of
paint to use after? —691.
A painted brick wall is very hard to
satisfactorily clean. A paint-remover or
caustic-soda cannot be used owing to
absorption of the bricks and subsequent
deleterious effect on the paint. Similarly,
burning off cannot be resorted to. Thor-
oughly rub with a piece of brick —using
water —and much of the paint will be re-
moved. After being allowed to thoroughly
dry the brickwork may be painted with any
good brand of oil paint—at least two coats.
I have a circular saw (used for cutting
firewood only) which has developed a crank,
starting at teeth and extending radially
inwards about four inches. Is there any
way of repairing this? —687.
Saws cracked in the manner stated are
beyond repair. Efforts at welding have been
without success, as the heat cracks the saws
either to a greater extent in the same place
or starts cracks in other portions.
(1) A takes a building contract from B.
A employs C to complete and fails to pay
wages in full. B says job not satisfactory
and does not pay A in full. A goes insolvent,
and Gis a creditor. Gan C claim from B ?
A did not give B certificate relieving him
from wages. —736.
(1) Under the Contractors’ Debts Act
a contractor is directly responsible and
liable for the payment of the wages of the
workmen employed by a sub-contractor. If C
should make any claim on B, place the matter
in the hands of a. solicitor.
What is the rate p.c. p.a. paid for a cash
order for £5, repayable in six months in
weekly instalments, if one pays 10s. in
advance as interest? —496.
In effect, you get a loan of £4 10s. and
repay £5 in 25 weekly instalments of 4s.
Disregarding interest on interest, as in this
case the hypothesis is that interest was paid
in advance, the rate is a shade over 49
p.c. p.a.
lloio to construct a fireless cooker? —597.
Get a clean wooden box find make it
airtight. Divide into two compartments.
Place a 3in. layer of clean straw in the bot-
tom of each, ramming it firm. Put two
enamel billies with lids on the straw, and
pack further straw till level with their tops,
keeping their handles free, and working the
straw with a circular movement so that tight
firm nests are made, into which the billies
may be easily dropped. If the work is well
done, the shape will be retained perfectly.
A cushion lid should be made of clean white
calico well filled with kapok to fit over the
top of the box; make an extra cover or slip,
which may be removed for washing. Bring
the food to boiling point in the billies,
then drop into the wells formed in the
straw, and cover closely and firmly, a weight
being put on top for security.
What date does Grenfell (N.S.W.) usually
sow wheat? —733.
Normally, mid-April to end of May. But
under stress of circumstances it is done
from April 1 to June 30.
What makes telephone wires hum, and
how can the annoyance be eliminated? —849.
The noise is probably caused by vibration
of lines being transmitted to the building.
Probably also the building is of wood, and in
such case the effect is similar to that of a
sounding board. The trouble is accentuated
by wires tightening up on cold nights. You
might get rid of the annoyance by having
the wires leading to the house loosened. But
if it is a two-wire line, see that the wires
are not made so slack that they swing in
contact.
(1) Method of satisfactorily threshing
Phalaris bulbosa seed in small quantities
without machinery? (2) Cost of machines
suitable for threshing in small quantities? —
525.
(1) The only method of threshing Phalaris
bulbosa in small quantities is to place the
heads in a bag or spread them out on a
tarpaulin and beat out the seed with a flail.
The chaff can be removed by “winding.” (2)
No such machine on the market.
(1) What kind of comphss is used on
flying machines —does the continual sway
make an ordinary compass useless? (2)
Do all machines have compasses? —2o9.
(1) Most aircraft compasses are of the
magnetic type. To prevent continual swing-
ing, the moving card or needle must be light
to reduce inertia, and any vibrations occur-
ring must be damped. Damping is effected
by situating the moving card or needle in a
bond fitted with transparent liquid of low
viscosity. Alcohol is invariably used be-
cause of its low freezing point and its affinity
for water, which tends to prevent rusting
of steel parts. The inertia of the moving
parts is reduced to a minimum by the use
of skeleton cards or needle frames. The
above remarks do not apply to the earth-
inductor compass, a recent development
which is not subject to certain defects occur-
ring in a compass using a magnetic needle.
The earth-inductor compass has many advan-
tages over the usual types, but its develop-
ment has not yet reached such a stage that
it can be universally adopted. (2) All Air
Force and most civil machines are fitted
with compasses.
Gan crocodiles be profitably caught for
their, hides by (1) nets, (2) shooting , (3)
trapping, (4) poisoning? (5) Prospects for
an inexperienced man? —7Bs.
(1) Nets have been used, but their heavy
cost and time and labor involved in shifting
them to fresh positions would spoil all hope of
a beginner mailing a living at the game." (2)
Shooting is best —quickest, least laborious
and least expensive. But a man must be
a dead shot; he will get very few targets
per day. (3) Crocodiles are trapped when
an occasional order comes in for a zoo, but
a man needs to be an expert to make a living
that way. (4) By poisoning the skin is
often lost. Crocs, up to 7ft. in length have
the most suitable hides for commercial pur-
poses. Skinning is slow work, and the hides
are difficult to cure. The price of skins de-
pends almost entirely on fashion. At present
it would be difficult for any but the most
experienced man, who already has a market,
to make a living.
How to paint two machine guns which
are very rusty? —6oß.
Thoroughly clean with emery paper, re-
moving all rust. Then apply two coats of
anti-corrosive grey paint of service shade,
allowing ample time for drying between
coats. Every trace of rust should be removed
or corrosion will proceed under the paint.
(1) How to prevent damage to galvan-
ised-iron roofing when removing screws and
nails? (2) How to strip lining-boards with-
out damaging the wood? —802.
(1) First soak round the screws with
kerosene, which will penetrate into the wood
and facilitate withdrawal of screws with
an ordinary screwdriver. If put on with
springhead nails, soak round the nails with
kerosene, and, using two claw-hammers,
drive the claw of one under the head of the
nail, when, with a board across the corruga-
tion, in most cases a little leverage will
remove the nail without much damage to
sheets. (2) Drive .the fixing nails right
through with a small punch; when the boards
a-re re-fixed use either thicker nails or make
fresh holes and putty up the old ones.
Would a young mam over 20, not yet
passed Junior Public, stand any chance of
being admitted to Q’land Education Dept, as
a teacher? —528.
No; candidates above 16 years who have
not passed the exam, are not eligible.
Does Anybody Know?
Dressing'for hardwood laboratory (chemi-
cal) benches to withstand acids and alkalis V
Benches are not new.—B29.
Brief Answers.
C.S.: It is not permissible in Vic. to affix
barbed wire to the outside of fencing posts erected
on road boundary fences. .. .R.C.: The Emperor gum
moth is sometimes called the Australian silkworm
moth. A leaflet concerning its life history can be
obtained from Australian Museum, Sydney. The
family (Saturnidae'), though popularly termed wild
silkworm moths, are not associated in any way
with the true silkworm. .. .A.W.S.: No commercial
value. .. .H.T.: (1) There is a free course for
children of 6-18 years. Address Sec., Education
Department, Melbourne. (2) Any subject included
in the State School curriculum can be taken. (3)
Not available to adults... .W.8.N.: Seeds of belah
germinate freely and require no special treatment.
It is possible you have not planted the seed, which
is a small nut enclosed in the cone-like fruit.
For\mrd seed to Department of Agriculture, Sydney,
for further advice. ...P.K.: Write Griffith and
Hassall, 77 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.... P.C.: Not
available in Australia. You could get the infor-
mation from the institutions concerned in London.
. ...L.R.: “Pi” is not an angle. It is the ratio
between the diameter and circumference of a circle
—1 to 3.1416. Every corner of a square is an
angle of 45 degrees.... H. 8.0.: Nothing can be done
to remove scratches caused by rubber wiper:
necessary to have anew glass fixed into the screen.
.... H.R.: Write Dalgety, Elizabeth-street; More-
heads, Mary-street; or Goldsbrough, Mort, Eagle-
street —all Brisbane. .. .J.H.: (1) Aust. Fertilisers
Pty., Ltd., Macquarie-place; and Baton, Burns and
Cos., 52 King-street—both Sydney. (2) Analyses of
samples taken in accordance with N.S.W. Fertilisers
Act are carried out gratis for bona fide farmers and
settlers. (3) No. (4) See reply to No. 1. (5)
Yes. Elliott Bros., Sydney, quote 425. per cwt
J.A.8.: The S.A. equivalents of the exam, are the
Intermediate and Junior Public. Unless you had
passed one of these you could not be considered for
selection for the It.A.F G.R.,: See article on
“Seals and Armorial Bearings” in “Australian En-
cyclopaedia” (vol. II) for principal ones; others
only obtainable from institutions themselves. .. .
G.G.C.: (1) Write Secretary, N.S.W. Railways,
Bridge-street, Sydney. (2) Write Water Conserva-
tion and Irrigation Commission, 247 George-street,
Sydney... .W. A. 8.: “Game of Bowls,” by W. G.
Duncan (Is. 6d.), from most booksellers, or direct
from author, 20 Campbell-parade, Bondi... .D.S.;
Care of Houghton MifHin Cos., 2 Park-street, Boston,
Mass., U.S.A. T.K.: (1) U.S.A. nickel coin, no
value. (2) Indian rupee, value 9d. (3) Apparently
French, too worn to be of value. (4) Brass imita-
tion of one guinea, no value. (5) An Australian
token, no value... .L. 8.: The co. informs us that
its actuarial valuations are triennial, and valu-
ations for period ending August 31, 1928,
are not yet completed. Notice of such
bonuses as may be recommended will be forwarded
in near future. .. .R.J.: (1) Usually £3 10s. per
month to commence. A few cos. require a premium
of £SO. Deputy-Superintendent, Shipping Office,
Dawes Point, Sydney, may be able to help in finding
a berth. (2) None that we know. .. .P.T. : Assistant
pursers are carried on most inter-State and oversea
steamers. Qualifications, general clerical knowledge;
preferably shipping experience. Pay, from £5 to
£l2 per month. Apply direct to cos J.J.D.:
The only records are buried in old newspaper files.
. ...A.Q.: None of the three has published verse
in book f0rm....C.H.J.R.: Write J. S. Langley,
Box 738 F, G.P.0., Sydney R.R.A.: Your ticket
did not draw a prize. ... H.J.F.: Question vague.
Suggest you write giving full particulars to Argyle
Bond and Free Stores, 18 Argyle-street; Par-
bury’s Bond and Free Stores, Ilickson-road; or
Dalgety’s (New) Bond and Free Stores, Argyle-place
—all Sydney. .. .V.M.: W. Elgar, Sydney Arcade,
King-street, Sydney.S.N.L.: Write Secretary, Air
Board, Defence Department, Melbourne, for pamph-
let “How to Join the R.A.A.F.”. . . .R.H.: See R.
D. Owen’s “Footfalls on the Boundary of Another
World” and “The Debatable Land Between This
World and the Next,” Crookes’s “Researches in
Phenomena of Spiritualism” and works by Oliver
Lodge, W. F. Barrett, Frank Podmore and A. Lang.
. ...J.J.: The legal position appears to be that an
entrance fee is charged for each particular enclosure,
and when such enclosure is entered the right con-
ferred is exercised, but is exhausted when the holder
leaves the enclosure and cannot be revived. The
right conferred is one entry, not two or more....
V. : Apply Registrar in Divorce, Supreme Court,
Sydney, giving name of self and person whom you
married, approximate date of believed divorce, if
possible, and any other helpful particulars. .. .
M.W.Q.: Try Robertson and Mullens, A. H.
Spencer, or A. Barrett Pty., Ltd. —all Melbourne.
W.C.: Brandts, Ltd., 236 Pitt-street, Sydney.
H.V.R.: Furs, Ltd., Chippen-street, Chippendale,
and Garling’s, 26 Hunter-street —both Sydney
E. and J.J.D.: Suggest you communicate with
W. Perrers, 480 George-street, Sydney. .. .W.8.P.:
(1) By alum and salt curing. Posting recipe. (2)
Yes, but wood, brick or concrete containers are much
more suitable. (3) Yes. .. .W.E.H.: Can’t say how
the Allan formula was arrived at, but it is as
correct as any thumb-rule could be for the measure-
ment of irregularly-shaped bodies. Can’t understand
your description of the S’African method.... H.T.D. :
(1) Write J. Brodie, stock agent, Peak Hill, N.S.W.
(2) (3) and (4) Answer later. .. .A.8.F.: No lawyer in
Sydney specialises in this direction, but any Divorce
Court practitioner should be able to supply in-
formation. We cannot differentiate as to ability
G.W.L.: No market for Sturt desert pea as a cut
flower. They pack and carry badly and do not
make up well from the florist’s point of view
8.H.: Write Labor Department, 451 Market-street,
Pretoria, S’Africa C.H.A.: The phrase “His Nibs”
is used to humorously designate a person of some
importance. Probably a variation of “His Nobs.”
H.M.: (1) Photo was published in Daily
GuardiaX, Sydney. A print can be purchased from
them. (2), (3) and (4) The S.E.s’s and D.H.9’s are
not being sold to the public. (5) No. Join an
Aero Club and receive proper instruction
W.R.P.: Straits Settlement dollar, 2s. 4d G.P.H.:
Worth about 10s., but don’t know a probable pur-
chaser D.J.R.: VK —4RM is an experimental
transmitting station owned by R. E. Mclntosh,
Hawthorn (Q.) A.W.8.: (1) Meth. spirits usually
preferred—dries quickly and is very penetrating.
(2) The prop, article can be recommended; it is
more even than home-made mixtures unless the work
is to be done on such a scale that large quantities
can be made. (3) Directions provided with purchase.
A.J.G.: No appointment as a sworn valuator
under the N.S.W. Real Property Act 1900 is being
made at present. .. .D.S.L.: Cooper’s “Weedicide.”
J.S.D.: Ringbarking is always more effective
when done at the rising of the sap in late winter
and early spring. When done at the full of the
sap, sucker growth is encouraged.... (Many others
mailed.)


m m
m
■mm
m
mm
HH
BUSINESS MEN ARE TARING TO THE AIR
To cross London the business man uses his
own car, and it is now just as practical for him
to travel across Europe in his own Avro 5.
The Avro 5 is equipped with three 100-h.p.
Armstrong-Siddeley engines and has a cruis-
ing speed of 100 m.h.p. Its carpeted cabin
contains chairs for four people. It is elec-
trically lighted and comfortably ventilated.
There is, in fact, everything necessary for
convenient and pleasurable travelling.
The Avro 5 can land in 330 yards and can
be left anywhere in all weathers. To own
one is to be utterly independent of all public
transport arrangements, and to be able to
travel anywhere at any time with speed,
safety and comfort.
4VRO ;
(3-ENGINED MONOPLANE)
Specifications and full particulars of the above, also of the larger Avro-JO
(carrying 8 passengers), will be supplied on application. Those interested
should write for free catalogue of the famous “Avian” light aeroplane.
A. V. ROE & CO., LTD., PICCADILLY, LONDON, ENGLAND. WORKS: MANCHESTER AND HAMBLE, SOUTHAMPTON.
C.T.P. 120.


PEAPES
Clothe men AND their sons.
QUALITY The quality of
every article which PEAPES
provide for men’s and boys’
wear is an intrinsic part of
the real value which one
always secures at PEAPES.
For the quality and service
of PEAPES’ goods are
enjoyed over a long period,
because they retain their
appearance to the end.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
Sydney Grammar School.
Day and Boarding School for Boys.
Applications for prospectus or interview should be made,
by letter to the Head Master, as early as possible.
Special features are the Preparatory Form, for boys of
9 to 12, in its own self-contained building and grounds, and
the New School House, with excellent accommodation for
sixty boarders.
Headmaster: H. S. DETTMAN, M.A., B.C.L.
Chairman of Trustees: SIR MUNGO MacCALLUM, K.C.M.G., LL.D., etc.
>o\ \
=>ea<ft o »,
F m t\\COWi\J
Car
son
The
Words
on the
Bale
are brimful of wisdom. The action they indicate
produces satisfaction for growers. Hence' the wide
popularity of Winchcombe, Carson as selling brokers,
Close supervision of each client’s wool by the
management is an outstanding force in the firm’s
work. Write
WiNCHCOMBE,CARSON
LTD.
Winchcombe House, Bridge Street,
Sydney, or 99-101 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
MORE PRIZES FOR FARMERS.
The winners of the prizes offered for
the most helpful contributions to “The
Bulletin’s” Land pages during the past six
months will be announced on July 10.
In order to encourage farmers to pass
on to others the fruits of their observa-
tion and experience, “The Bulletin” will
give three prizes for the most helpful
contributions during the six months to
Dec. 31 next.
Points will be awarded for every con-
tribution submitted, if thought worthy and
whether printed or not, and two prizes—
the first of £25 and the second of £lo—
be given to the winners of most
points.
A special prize of £5 will be given for
the best individual contribution.
Only contributions that are of practical
value to men on the land are asked for;
literary merit is not taken into account, so
long as the meaning is expressed plainly.
The prizes are in addition to the ordi-
nary payments made for all “Bulletin”
contributions.
“The Bulletin” is to be the judge of
merit, and reserves the right to call in
practical outsiaers as assessors.
4
FLAX-GROWING IN TASMANIA,
“Specker”; Flax-growing in the Speck is
going ahead, and the demand for seed is
greater than the Flax Corporation can fulfil.
It is important to sow only guaranteed seed,
and the corporation recommends J.W.S. pedi-
gree seed or such Dutch seed as it may
supply. Flax is suitable for either spring or
autumn sowing. Spring crops are cleaner,
but more likely to be ravaged by caterpillars
and grubs.
’’’lax takes about 100 days to mature, and
is not seriously affected by frost except just
when the young plants are shooting. The
land should be well cultivated and worked
down to a fine tilth so that the small seed
may be lightly covered. Much of it will be
lost if sown deeper than an inch, and the
best practice is to cover as lightly as pos-
sible. It is sown through a drill, and the
best plan is to drill in the fertiliser sepa-
rately. If the operations are combined, the
seed and fertiliser should be mixed just
before sowing. The corporation recommends
sowing at the rate of l-j- bushels to the acre.
Rolling is necessary on loose soils, and when
the crop is a few inches high all docks or
thistles should be eradicated. The cleaner
the crop the better, but those weed's are
particularly objectionable. Many Victorian
farmers claim that flax is more profitable
than cereal crops if taken over a period of,
say, 10 years at the guaranteed price of £5
per ton. Although it responds to generous
treatment, it is a crop that is tolerant of bad
conditions and will do well on acid land.
LINSEED-GROWING IN AUSTRALIA.
“Amber”: “Bad Australian” asks (B.
29/5/’29) why linseed is grown in and ex-
ported from the Argentine and is not grown
in the Australian wheat districts.
To obtain the best results linseed requires
light but frequent falls of rain throughout
the growing period, and also a high humidity.
In the Argentine these conditions are sup-
plied, if not always in the form of frequent
light falls, at least by frequent heavy dews.
Linseed has about the same season as
wheat. In Australia it should be sown dur-
ing May, and will be ready to harvest during
early-December. It requires the same mach-
inery as _ wheat to sow and harvest, etc. The
wheat districts of N.S.W. were at one time
considered suitable for this crop, but the
temperatures rapidly rise with the approach
of spring, and the conditions during spring
and summer are comparatively warm and
dry. These warm, dry conditions are essen-
tial if a good wheat sample is to be obtained,
but they are extremely undesirable as far
as linseed production is concerned.
Fallowing to conserve moisture will result
in payable wheat yields even in adverse sea-
sons. It was suggested that the conservation
of moisture by fallowing would offset the
adverse conditions of spring and summer
and enable successful linseed crops to be
grown in the wheat districts of Australia.
Unlike wheat, however, the linseed crop is
not capable of taking advantage of moisture
stored at any depth in the soil; the root
system is very shallow, and the crop must
depend on the season’s rain.
Linseed is grown in Canada and the U.S.A.
in the colder portions of their temperate
zones both for flax and seed, and in theory
the mild conditions of the Central Tablelands
(N.S.W.), with a rainfall of 23in., should
also be suitable. Attempts have been made
at numerous times to grow linseed commer-
cially in the Bathurst district, but no great
success has resulted. To my knowledge the
highest yield of linseed in the district was
54 bushels per or 3301 b. ; the same sea-
son and under similar conditions the wheat
crop was 36 bushels per acre. These results
indicate that before linseed can be considered
as a commercial crop in N.S.W. the price
must be very high in comparison with that
of wheat.
“GOLD LEAF”TOBACCO.
“Lemon Bright”: Vic. tobacco-growers are
much concerned regarding the variety of
tobacco they should grow on the heavier
soils, owing to the B. A. T. Co. recently
announcing its inability to purchase more
than 10 per cent, of dark grade from one
grower. I've found a variety that will pro-
duce 90 per cent, light leaf.
In the 1927-28 season I planted five acres
of Gold Leaf on heavy river-flat soil. The
plants did not make the same headway as
Long Leaf Conqueror or Blue Prior, and
when we were topping the plants we were
so disappointed with the dwarfed appearance
that we did not leave any flowers for seed
purposes—much to our regret later. I
counted the leaves on several plants, the
highest and lowest being 15 and 10 respec-
tively, whereas I have counted as many as
23 leaves on a stalk of Broadleaf Con-
queror. About a week after topping, heavy
rain fell and a few days later we went to
sucker the Gold Leaf. We were astonished
at its appearance. It had nearly doubled
itself in weight, and had then not reached
maturity. To crown all, when cured about
30 per cent, graded lemon bright and 50 per
cent, light _ mahogany, the remainder being
seconds owing to its broken state, due mostly
to hailstorms.
The texture of the leaf was strong and
pliable, and the crop weighed well. Being a
relatively small plant Gold Leaf could be
planted 2ft. Sin. apart instead of 3ft. as in
the case of other varieties, and in present
circumstances should prove ideal for use on
heavy soils.
A FERTILE SOIL.
“Curlew”: A fertile soil must contain a
plentiful supply of nitrogen, potash, phos-
phorus, magnesia, sulphur, soda, iron, chlor-
ine, silica and lime. Most soils contain an
abundance of all but nitrogen, phosphoric
acid, potash and lime, and as these are com-
paratively abundant in plants they are more
likely to become deficient in the soil. If
even one of these elements is in short supply
the crop will suffer. The agricultural chemist
can tell to a nicety the percentage of
chemicals in the soil examined and can say
what percentage a good soil should con-
tain. But there are infertile or unproduc-
tive soils that will analyse quite as well.
Why the difference in results?
A soil, in addition to containing necessary
chemicals (which really constitute but a
fractional part of the whole), must be in a
good condition. It must be such that air can
freely pass through it; water must be able
to percolate, to go down when there is
plenty, to rise when the surface layers of
soil are drying out; and the physical con-
dition must be good. If worked when too
wet there is a tendency to puddle (lie soil,
causing the particles to adhere together and
prevent the movement of air and water.
Land intelligently cultivated allows access
to air and water and ensures the best use
of both. The chemical constituents of the
soil are only slowly soluble, and in some
combinations are almost insoluble, so that
chemical analysis may not be worth much.
The chief test of the value of a soil and the
advantages of special treatment by culti-
vation and manuring are to be determined
only by experiment.
Land containing plenty of humus is neces-
sary to the production of heavy crops, and
after cropping virgin soil for a longer or
shorter period the restoration of humus must
be accomplished or but poor results will be
obtained. One has only to note the prolific
growth made in stockyards, where quantities
of decayed vegetable matter protect and
enrich the surface, or around the farmstead,
where animal droppings have enriched the
soil, to realise what fertility means. And it
a spit of these soils be turned up the appear-
ance of the soil and the wonderful mass ot
root fibres explains why the following year
the results should be even better.
HUMUS IN WHEAT LAND.
“Yetmian”: A gradual depletion of humus
in taking place in our wheat lands. Burn-
ing the stubble and cropping the same land
for the second year running is a practice
(not so common now as a decade or two
ago) that accelerates the loss of that vital
element. The two-year rotation (wheat fal-
low —wheat —fallow) is now the most com
mon cause of humus depletion. Heavy dress-
ings of super, probably increase the oxidi-
sation and the loss of organic matter, Take*
all and other fungus diseases are evidence ot
a deficiency of humus and a decline in ferti-
lity. The remedy is to displace the two-year
rotation with a three- or four-year rota-
tion (fallow —wheat —pasture—fallow ; or
fallow —wheat —pasture—pasture-!—fallow).
The wheat, and/or other cereal acreage must
be reduced, and more sheep carried.
Stubble should not be burnt off (unless
the crop is diseased), but fed off by inten-
sive grazing. By this , means the stubble
will be quickly converted to a manure
which will restore much more organic matter
to the soil than was lost in producing the
crop. Then letting the stubble paddock go
back to pasture for one or two seasons or
more, and finally ploughing in a good coating
of green herbage on the resumption of winter
fallowing, should go a long way towards
restoring lost humus. Where, however, the
loss of humus is serious enough to appreci-
ably affect fertility, thtf best renovator would
be the sowing of lucerne, because of its
feeding value and deep-rooting system. Tn
tlie long run the lucerne would be more
profitable and do more good than the grow-
ing of a crop of peas or other legume for
the purpose of turning it in as green
manure. If the fullest use be made of sheep
—judiciously combining hand-feeding with
intensive grazing—they will balance the loss
in revenue through the reduction of the
wheat acreage by giving the arable paddocks
a two or three years’ rest from cereal pro-
duction. <
LUCERNE AND SOIL.
“Alf Alpha”: The analyses with which
“Huffy” illustrates his remarks on the effect
of soil on lucerne (B. 29/5/’29) are appa-
rently analyses of lucerne ash and not of the
plant itself. The combinations are hypo-
thetical, and therefore unreliable. The
analysis of any arable soil will show a very
high percentage of oxide of iron, and the
variation of the iron content of the plant
cannot vary greatly. However, it is in the,
reference to the composition of granite and
chalky soils that the contribution calls for
comment.
The granite soils of Australia are par-
ticularly poor, whereas the chalky soils are
of a good quality. In Vic., for instance, the
granite soils are poor in everything save
sand, whereas the chalky soils are deficient
only in phosphoric acid, of which, however,
they contain a greater amount than the
granitic soils.
ROTATION IN TASMANIA.
“Brady’s Lookout” : Rotation has been the
ordinary working practice of nearly all wheat
farmers in the Speck for as long as I can
recollect—and that’s over fifty years. With-
out rotation the island would have been
finished long ago as a wheat-producer. Some
of the land has been producing wheat in
rotation for 120 years and is still giving big
crops. This year, on land that has been in
continual crop for over 100 years, I thrashed
46 bushels to the acre. The winning crop in
the wheat competition went 56| bushels per
acre, but that was on land that had been
out of cultivation for 15 years previously.
The application of super, is a comparatively
recent development.
It is undoubtedly the rotation system,
introduced by the early settlers from Great
Britain at a time when binders, drills,
multiple ploughs and super, were unknown,
that has put the country where it is as a
wheat-producer and will keep it there.
My 46-bushel crop was drilled in in May
on a well-worked, shallow bare fallow—
Braemar Velvet 901 b., super. 1001 b. to the
acre. The triennial rotation was Algerian
oats —bare fallow —wheat. Instead of bare
fallow, Algerian oats fed off to sheep in the
green stage is chosen by some, and barley is
sometimes sown as a change crop. Lately a
good many are growing a crop of turnips for
sheep feed in the rotation.
My experience is that you must have
rotation and bare fallow if the land is to
go on-giving a decent return.
I don’t know whether Braemar Velvet is
grown on or will suit the mainland. Here it
is grown almost universally; it suits the
country better than any other we have had.
It will not easily shake when ripe, having
a good, stiff straw. My last crop was level
all over the paddock and 6ft. high.
STOMACH WORMS IN SHEEP.
“Hatter” : There may be some evidence in
support of the idea that wet land favors the
growth of stomach worms in sheep, but sheep
on the driest of pastures may be affected.
The most important factor in the spread of
parasitic diseases is overcrowding, and in
cases where pastures are improved the
greater carrying capacity of the land is fre-
quently offset by the greater mortality among
the lambs, unless the flock is safeguarded
from infection.
There are several kinds of stomach worms
to be found in sheep, but only two that cause
serious trouble. These are the “twisted wire-
worm” (Hcemonchus contortus) and the
lesser stomach worm ( Ostertayin circum-
oincta). The former is from jin. to
long and tinged with red. The smaller worm
is |in. to Hu. long and of a pale pink color.
The presence of either of these worms is
generally the cause of land becoming “sheep-
sick.”
Where outbreaks occur it is important to
ascertain which variety of worm is re-
sponsible. The copper sulphate treatment
("Pick,” B. 29/5/’29) is effective 'for the
twisted wireworm, but there is no treatment
yet known to which the lesser worm responds,
consequently preventive measures are the
only ones possible. As the larvae can live
in the ground for a year, it is best to
provide' a forage crop on clean land for the
ewes and young lambs in any district where
there has been recent trouble or where this
trouble is likely. If this is impracticable
an attempt should be made to put them on
pasture which lias not been grazed by sheep
for a year.
STUDY "ril'E ‘ WEATHER.
“Curlew”: Farmers become weather-wise
only as the result of experience. The best
road to experience is to read and record the
barometer and the thermometer.
Twenty years ago I bought an aneroid
barometer and a thermometer. Every morn-
ing I entered up the readings of the two
instruments, direction of the wind, amount of
cloud, rainfall, frost and other weather con-
ditions. For the barometer-thermometer
readings I used an exercise-book ruled into
squares. Tht daily rise or fall was plotted,
and became a valuable guide as to seasonal
weather prospects.
I have found many practical advantages
as the result of keeping such records. A
comparison of the monthly charts with those
of other years sometimes shows that the
barometer is running higher than in normal
years. That indicates drier conditions, and
may mean drought. To be forewarned is to
be forearmed.
Get the publications issued by your State
Meteorological Department, Scott’s “Elemen-
tary Meteorology” and Chambers’s “Story of
tin' Weather.” These won’t cost you many
shillings and may save you many pounds.
WORSTING THE MAIZE WEEVIL.
“Spare Cocky” : Keeping stored maize free
from weevil is one of the problems of the
farmer. Most of the known methods are
either expensive or elaborate. The following
is neither. Fill the usual 1000-gallon tank
with grain to within a foot of the top.
Shove into the middle of the grain a zinc
pipe a foot long and two or three inches
in diameter. Then pile in more grain until
the tank is as full as possible. But a lighted
candle in the pipe, and cement or other-
wise glue the cover of the manhole down
so that it is absolutely air-tight. The candle
exhausts the air left in the tank and goes
out when that process is completed. So
does all animal life in the tank. Grain
stored under these conditions will remain
fresh and unimpaired for years.
FEELING TIMBER
“E.H.'S.”: When felling a tree the first
thing to do is to strip about a foot of
bark off all around to allow a free run for
the saw. Then a scarf-should be cut with
the axe on the leaning side, or, where the
tree stands straight up, on the side that
carries the heavier part of the top. A saw-
cut should be started on the back of the tree
about nine inches higher than the bottom
of the scarf and parallel to it, and when the
saw is well sunk in the tree it should be
worked around on each side towards the
scarf before carrying the main cut further
in. If it is desired to throw the tree a few
points either way from its natural inclina-
tion, the scarf should be cut facing in the
direction required, and asi the saw cut pro-
gresses it should be followed by one or two
wedges placed so as to assist in throwing
the tree in the right direction. Great care
should be exercised when it is necessary to
throw a tree away from its natural inclina-
tion, as it is liable to turn on the stump or
tear up instead of breaking off at the cut.
The scarf in a tree with a pronounced lean,
should be carried to the centre of the trunk,
or in some cases even further, before “back-
ing down” with the saw is commenced, other-
wise, except in cases where the timber is
(Continued on page 82.)


m Guying
>| J wwm i
I m e me
THE
obiloil
%
here are two reasons -.
■A » s
»VV
\A©
t\v©
ot
t\v e sta ; a s *>« e *
t# 4 to-
•^ e £
etv4 H to ot
•*?. **?:*>•£
e A s^ e6^ S
t>°" et t° aA ac-
r
h
Q *tl}
od
or
***
*V e i
y te
o
*9r
***</
a^Oj
/a *o r
vl' S6e^w
y Motors * g a *tiy n
th G
Pe *-to t . t / ae st e ’’'Ve
afl c e <4 ***4» e
*^ e v er
/i
.v//
r&.
T,
'//<
*««
/iOOi'.i
p'-«
M
f* • #
♦*
/ T i
pUk'*.
[wW;
£
y ">
//.
Jvwfo
&
£
fa'A A
Mb.
VS,..
Vs
V/A
Vs
S//S
%
ov
w/fi-V/Vs
Y'S
"*v
2/3
&EB QUART
2/3 per quart
in bulk.
Slightly higher
in country
districts.
Costs more and well worth it!
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. ltd.
9MS.


behind, the whe<
cw
* ill
■ v
111
■mmgrax
?r > '#'■», "f. s * ** 4 j
*jf>v « vf *# * 2*l /* „* ‘ .“W
- >v; *. *• * 4 -;&
A- 1 M|§ gft
■ mil
».■*. V't.**
Wmms
Wm
’■■ ><••.
,X >
MM
mu
WM
:■*•
t *mas • •'. v. W&& *£ sS?©}£ JfsS®
....
' ■ ■
i 3 , »' i*» *• * 3
? :>.■: :■ •■..:■ 3t.: ■•■ v,. , . ■ ... ...
. ,i , -. ’ * . v :** iu
f XTw 4« fHglill if Mpaßll tL. JX f§| | P 'V iff
»' '^tMmikWSKSm
if 24f *' >' * bfi% H
, .' rfC. > *
*«•/'... * '»••'. Vj*». .. ,i . < -
'■< > ■
mmm*-:
mm?kW
■h^SPr
i &'> * a ''
I * ' * -’< -'” '”’ ' »» ~ ™
..... ■ - : " ;
■
■
& . • 1 . . • •' v *. '!
2,’ >£
■
■
sits®
3®
■
MS
1111
:iwill
W#M
III*!!:
m
■
smsmmm mKmamsm
t^Jm
■
■ . . -.' a S : ." . -
% ■.
mm ß
ras
: . 1111
fßßsm
■l
■ ..
Spp^y\
, ' - 4vi
i t ' .
i i L &
V~*
*:-
: ■■
i
:> v
* t V> 1 \ , • ,
' •- !
• N 3
x#:-. -
m*
: 'i *
SSSSSI
| &
If * V *■■»»:
afi
«?.>;/> • ‘ X it's-- >x>;-. >§’■: •<.,:
V'r
1 fe |a «|j
•o
m
Wy.
v v “I
X-a'-'.r ;?< V,
/ '• -a^v;
• /Mjg
®p
;S
: ■ .'
.«>■ -
m>i
*l+
I AW
'
;r»
A.--.
3 . •'.« -
H ■Wfl
: V
;
■
mMwmfmmm
'a:.
:'"f.
mmmmßMmi*
• ••;••:•
■
:
IMM
t“ ■
■ SI ™
■ - i :- '
; :.
WM&m
>®m
1: : U
>•<- • ’
'; .' ’.i :
■■ •'.!
..X
, *♦
v
H
■-•'
. 5 ■
■ *-:
.
&
,:'* , 3 1
m
>•■■
WmmmiWMWWM.
- - - *
'. -
•V
- -
'
..
W
k|:
'< ' \ JJ ij
',. <•■•• ••;
<;•;
.
■
i
"solo2s ,
Artven
cats
rti.ol
M#
tjottj
c / 7 n e\
S3Si ot|-
s^f ft t*tnance
a
ance
petfo* 10^


<1 and g'et the facts /
- . n
|
Vi
Q
I
m
fSjmk--
; MMMm
' Pig p@T3
■
- rl' 5 *sss $
:
;* '
.# IfWElfr;
s
I
I
is
i/|
1
V
ms;
- %
V
MU
\;<y
■
1 " -\V i 8 1 ill
a;'
H
■
: ■
MM
■
• «®s
$
B
: a I
VK ■
mm
\::ty ... .the alluring new style .... which Buick has introduced
Af.i.tMVnr*;rt rtflfiwe enthusiasm. Hoick
Vk'Jy.. • '55
*•<* •’H
:6wer. getaway, swiftness, stamina and reliability which definitely establish
‘ 'ormapce car of all time. get.behind the.wheel and get the facts.
r ; *
k &lL h" r, ■ _
'
Ifclypiw y) ' ' '
' ’-, y
■ VoIIKLQCAL; DEALER-
Metropolitan Distributors:
L*iE : Lane’s Motors Pty. Ltd., Exhibition St. SYDNEY : Boyd Edkins Ltd., Philip St. BRISBANE: Metropolitan Motors, Adelaide St,
ADELAIDE: Vivian Lewis Ltd., Franklin St. PERTH: Master Motors Ltd.. Milligan S*.
m
?-■ ;
H, {
$ ; •<:' •■?
**i
Ji
v :
'
:Vh
-
k
m- k: g
:
m
* -
mm
1.
m
t m
w
■■■ <■,,*
.« -■
«
in
m
f ,
h %
■ -


Q
A
: H
Fitted for width as
well as length
For all ordinary wear this Abbey
Boot is one of the most comfortable.
It is light in weight, and pliant, with
a sole of the toughest obtainable
leather. As the photo shows, the
upper drops to back of ankle .md
so fits more easily and snugly. The
lacing arches over the instep—does
’ up neatly and closely without the
slightest strain. The roomy toe is
smartly squared.
Order by post
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are supplied in each full and half-
size. No “breaking-in” is needed.
Specify width when ordering, and
ask, also, for a supply of the correct
Abbey Polish (6d. per tin).
TAN CALF 457-
BLACK CALF 457-
PATENT LEATHER . . 55/-
Enlarged catalogue of men’s and women’s
footwear post free.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
Sydney.
FPLI3O.
-tf
ASTHMA
Catarrh,Bronchitis,
Whooping Cough,
Colds in the Head
Yield at once
to the soothing
fumes of
.ASTHMA,
2/6 per Tin from all Medicine
Vendors.
POTTER & CLARKE. LTD..
Artillery Lane, London, Eng.
For outdoors, use
Potter s SMOKING
MIXTURE and
CIGARETTES
What Is a WIENEKE?
S;-: 5
a
It is only
another
name for the
World’s Best
Saddle.
I have written a book of
my life’s experience as a
saddler and athlete, since
1880, and it contains
colored pictures of 11 new
models of Wieneke Saddles.
CUT THIS OUT
AND SIGN HERE.
F The Gulf NAME
Champion,
£l5/15/- ADDRESS
Please send me your book free.
JACK WIENEKE,
C/o JOHN BRUSH,
371 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
And at 434 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE,
QUEENSLAND.
ẅ
w
You can Wipe the Mort-
gage Off your House.
Possess insurance, and effect a
saving in cost. Particulars of this
sound business investment from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LAND AND FINANCE COMPANY, LIMITED,
SYDNEY. Also at WAGGA & HENTY, LONDON, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE.
Auction Sales I WOOL, FAT STOCK, GRAIN, SHEEPSKINS,
Thi ousjhout the Year \ HIDES, TALLOW, FURRED SKINS, etc.
nm'rii A /m- l h e %t o7 \ T ‘ a « toral Properties and Stock. Wool, Grain and Produce.
Offices, 4 Bhgh Street, Sydney. JAMES KIDD. General Manager for Australia.
EXAMINATION FOR TOWN AND SHIRE CLERKS.
Men of ability and average education who wish to get out of the rut and enter a profession
where there is a certainty of employment are advised to send for our Prospectus. Here is one
profession where the supply is not equal to the demand. NOW is the time to begin.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £250,000
ALL CLASSES OF INSURANCE EFFECTED.
Probate Disability, Extended Insurance, Non-Forfeiture
H° s pit a l, Medical and Nurse’s Fees Combined.
t Si.!?*?* wl T, ch causea the tax create the cash to pay the tax.
• HEAD OFFICE: Hunter House, 26 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
A. McLEAN, Managing Director R. V. BOOTH, Secretary.
inquiries invited.
very tough-grained, the log is almost sure to
tear up, and when this happens somebody is
likely to be hurt.
FENCING SCRUBLAND.
Bad Australian” : It is not necessary or
even desirable, to fence scrub land before the
relied timber has been burned off. Before
fencing is begun, all trees overhanging the
line or likely to fall across it must be felled,
and the fence must be a wire netting one
it it is intended to exclude marsupials, which
it still will not do.
To prevent weeds getting a start on newly-
burned scrubland, broadcast it with pas-
palum or cocksfoot seed immediately after
the burn, whether it has been successful or
not, and by the time the cleaning up is
finished the grass will be sprouting. Given
an aven start, weeds rarely succeed
against either of these grasses. A dog-log
fence, constructed from the materials at
hand and “brushed” along the bottom, will
keep out wandering stock until the inevit-
able bush-fire comes along, when the erection
of a permanent and properly protected fence
—a very expensive item nowadays—may be
undertaken.
GIVE THE HORSE A CHANCE.
“Koolonga”: The best horseman isn’t
always the best horsemaster. Remember that
a sore back means walking. Avoid careless
riding or saddling, a dirty blanket and incom-
petent grooming. Don’t leave the saddle on
if you’re dismounting for more than a few
minutes. Off-saddle and give the nag a
chance to roll. Don’t sit on your horse
when halted.
If you gallop about aimlessly the horse
senses that you lack an objective and gets as
careless as the rider. Don’t stick in the
saddle all day. Get off and walk occasion-
ally. If you water straight after a meal
the food is wasted by being washed through
the bowels. Let a heated horse cool down
gradually; lead him about for a few minutes.
He'll catch cold if you put the hose on him
straight away.
Finally, remember that though a healthy
horse can carry a sick man, a healthy man
can’t carry a sick horse.
CAPACITY OF FARM IMPLEMENTS.
“Yeoman” : Tire drill or combine is the
only implement that registers the acreage
done, and that is not always quite correct.
The following table gives the acreage covered
in eight hours by horses at 2\ m.p.li. and
tractors at 3 m.p.h.:—
Cutting
Width, Horses, Tractor,
„ . , ft. in. acres. acres.
6-furrow plough .. 4 0 8.7 11 6
*• » , » •• 5 4 11.6. 15.4
10-disc cult .. .. 50 10.9 14.5
D- „ „ .. 7 0 15.2 20.3
16-hoe combine .. 9 4 20.3 27 0
20- .. H 8 25.4 33!9
Harvester .. .. 8 0 17.4 23.2
>» •• •• 9 0 19.6 26.1
• • 1° 0 21.8 29.0
Set of 10 harrows.. 28 0 61.0 91.4
If the mileage traversed in a day is known
the acreage can be ascertained on the basis
that lft. in width represents 0.1212 of an
acre in every mile. Thus, if the implement
cuts 9ft. 4 inches and traverses 30 miles in
a day (a tractor’s job), the acreage is found
by multiplying 0.1212 by the width. 9.33
(ft.) which gives 1.13 acres per mile. Multi-
ply that by 30 (miles) and the area for the
day s work is found to be 33.9 acres.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
( Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Prospects of grape culture in
County of Cumberland (N.S.W.)? (2)
Area tieeded for a comfortable living? (3)
Approx profit per acre? (4) Varieties most
popular/ (5) Expenditure per acre to bring
to full bearing (less land)? (6) How to
purify river water for drinking purposes ? —
(1) On appearances to-day prospects for
table grapes are as good as, if not better
than, in most other branches of primary
production. (2) About 10 acres. (3)
Approximate gross profit is £BO per acre;
working costs, including picking, etc., roughly
130 per acre. (4) Muscat Hamburg is the
most popular; then White Muscat, Waltham
Gross. Black Hamburg, Doradillo. Muscat
Hamburg, Black Hamburg and Doradillo are
probably the best for the Cumberland district.
(5) Vanes according to soil conditions—
roughly £BO per acre, less land. (6) Sus-
pended matter may be removed by filtration.
Ihis would not affect the matter in solution.
Suitable treatment would depend on nature
and amount of the impurities, which vary con-
siderably ; also the method selected would
include consideration as to whether large
or small volumes of water were to be treated.
Control measures to adopt to keep the
diamond-back moth from cabbages and tur-
nips ?—520.
Arsenate-of-lead sprays are used, but on
account of danger to the consumer cabbages
should not be sprayed after they have com-
menced to heart. Kerosene emulsion and
nicotine sulphate have both been tried with
success. \\ atering the vegetables with hot
water is also said to be effective, but can be
adopted only on a relatively small scale, and
where vegetables are grown for sale use of
° ne ? j le three sprays mentioned is recom-
mended. Spraying must be repeated several
times, commencing early in the life of the
™P’ Strict attention to farm hygiene
should also be paid. Unmarketable vegetables
should not be allowed to rot on the ground
to act as breeding-grounds for the moths.
How to grow artichokes? —6s3.
Chlindse iand Jerusalem artichokes arei
propagated by tubers. The Globe (Cynara
scolymus) is raised from seeds, which should
germinate in about 10 days. Pick out seedlings
when strong enough into a sheltered bed, and
when about four inches high plant out in
rcWs three feet apart. Good heads should
be produced in eight months from planting.
The tender part of the unexpanded flower-
head after being boiled is relished as a vege-
table. A moderately cool climate gives best
results. The tuberous varieties are planted
about 18in. apart, and produce a crop in
five or six months.
My lucerne -has been down nine years,
in five-acre paddocks, cultivated each year,
one bag super, top-dressed annually, cut for
hay and grazed in rotation. Thin year the
plants become deformed and small, then die.
What’s wrong?■ — -454.
This condition has been fairly common in
lucerne in \ ic. this year. The symptoms
are the appearance of numerous stems with
tiny leaflets, and usually some decay of the
crown. The cause is not yet known, and
cannot be associated with any particular
condition or treatment, although observa-
tions suggest that it occurs on the heavier
soils, in older lucerne, and on stands that are
grazed. The trouble is being investigated
by the Department of Agriculture.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
Silentio” : At this time of the year it's
worth while to give the water supply a look
over,, and think of the summer ahead. Tanks
area t very expensive; a few lengths of
spouting will catch hundreds of gallons of
water off outhouses, and that may mean
saving pounds in a dry spell. Cleaning out
catchment areas and channels to the dams,
mending broken banks and quarrying out a
few more feet of earth are things worth
doing on any farm whan, as at present,
things are a bit slack.
“E.W."; Borers in fruit-trees can be
killed by pushing a piece of wadding satu-
rated with bisulphide of carbon into the
hole and then plugging it up.
“Minthall”: When planting fruit trees
make room for a couple of China pears.
1 liey don’t take up much room and are tall
growers allowing you to cultivate well up
to the trunks. They beat all for prolific
bearing, hang well, are good for cooking and
preserving, can be dried in the sun for
winter use, and when ripe are good eaters.
1 lgs thrive on the surplus.
I Tortus” : If you see young cabbage or cauli-
flower plants falling over, having been bitten
through the stalk, dig down with a small fork
to a depth of about two or three inches, and
you will find the culprit—a dark brown grub,
about one inch long. Do this in the early
morning, or you will miss it, for it travels
underground from plant to plant.
“A.B.’ : A permanganate solution, made
with loz. of crystals in two quarts of water,
should always bo kept near the poultry-pens
during the cold days, and, at the first sign
ol cold the affected bird’s head should be
submerged in it for about 30see. Three times
a day for three days will in most cases
effect a cure. It is advisable to segregate
birds from the pens during treatment.
‘Bullswool” : Most of the dairymen round
me have small areas and rear only the calves
from picked cows, being glad to' get rid of
the others at birth. A neighbor of mine
keeps half a dozen cows, buys these calves for
a few bob and rears them on the cows, some-
times four at a time. He is handy to the
saleyards, where city buyers snap up his
offerings. He feeds his milkers well and
makes more profit per year than the average
cow-cocky.
“F.S.A.”: If a cow is fed with about 31b.
of bran to which IJlb. of Epsom salts and
2oz. of ginger are added a couple of days’
before calving, the ration will have a cooling-
action on the system and there will be no
danger of milk-fever developing. A practice
adopted in U.S.A. to prevent milk-fever is
to feed daily half a bucket of chopped-up
potatoes, sprinkled with bran, to each cow
immediately the frnces show signs of
becoming hard (which is strong evidence of
a fevered condition). The quantity of pota-
toes may be increased, and that ration con-
tinued until the droppings again become soft.
A ration of half a bucket of chopped-up
parsnips, seasoned with bran, fed daily for
two or three weeks before parturition' will
be most helpful in maintaining the health of
the cow.
“Yeoman”; Lambs should be fattened
through the ewes, and live weights of 60-651 b.
at ‘3% months to 75-Solb. at to 5 months
sought. A well-nourished ewe will yield 41b.
of milk daily to her lamb at two months.
That quantity of milk has a feeding value
equal to more than double that weight of
lucerne. Therefore, nourish the ewes so
that the maximum milk-flow will be main-
tained during the suckling period. If the
available pastures are not adequate for this
purpose, it will pay to feed the ewes a sup-
plementary ration of lucerne, peas, oats or
other forage o r concentrate rich in albumi-
noids.
“Bad Australian”: In shoeing a horse for
work on rough, mountainous country the
shoes should be cogged and a sheet of sole
leather placed between shoe and hoof;
the leather protects the frog and sole from
bruising or other injury, and the cogs, which
should not be too long, will prevent skating
on clayey country in wet weather or in de-
scending steep slopes. This method of shoe-
ing has saved me heaps of trouble with both
hacks and pack-horses.
“Peter”: The carrying capacity of a
lucerne plot will be nearly doubled if it be
cut instead of grazed. Its feeding value,
as it contains too high a protein content
by itself, will be considerably improved, too,
if it be fed with maize, straw or some other
food-stuff rich in carbohydrates. In the
absence of maize or straw, molasses can be
added to lucerne, balancing it as a ration
at a small cost and increasing its feeding
value by 25 per cent, at least.
“Peterford”: Freshwater swamps and
marshes, and any low-lying area subject to
periodical flooding- where the subsoil remains
moist in between inundations, now growing
more or less useless rushes, sword-grass and
sedges, can be profitably reclaimed at a rela-
tively low cost by the introduction of Poa
aquatica, or water meadow grass. This
perennial is established by planting the roots
in clumps along the edges of the swamps or
marshes, or in shallow water, at any time of
of the year. It has remarkable vitality and
rapidly spreads towards the centre of the
swamp. The stems grow to a height of Bft.
to 9ft., and if trodden into the mire every
joint will take root. Poa aquatica will kill
out all the indigenous growths of the swamps,
and should produce about 40 tons of excel-
lent fodder to the acre per year. It resembles
a crop of Sudan grass, has a high protein
content, and is very sweet and palatable. A
natural and strong growing companion grass
to the poa is the birdsfoot trefoil (Lotus
major). The two together constitute a well-
balanced ration. Departmental tests have
proved the success of poa in .Vic., Tas. and
N.S.W. It has recently been introduced into
S.A. and W.A.


ŵ
ẁ
“THE AGE”
Established 185Jf.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
Competition in business is too keen and the
struggle too tense to SPECULATE in news-
paper space.
The actual results from advertising depend
upon the media used, and no amount of care
and thought and study is too great to expend
on this subject.
If you want to reach the Victorian public,
follow the lead of men who have tried and
KNOW. Appeal to them through “THE AGE,”
which others have found to be productive. Get
the benefit of 75 years’ specialised effort in
supplying the needs of 1-23,533 daily sub-
scribers who demand an accurate and complete
news service of the world’s happenings.
“THE AGE”
circulation is in reality a body of
readers which, has been organised
into a body of Purchasers.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
ẃ
m
ft
m
ẅ
w
\
m
t>
X
wmst&S!*
t
h
◄
■ 1
<n i
Makes the
Finish Last
Louder
« .
Cars
Kept
Beautiful with
SIMONIZ are
Always Beautiful
Everywhere you go you see thousands of
beautiful cars—kept so by Simonizing—and
many of them are two and three years old.
Simoniz solves the problem of keeping cars
new and beautiful, as well as making the
finish last longer and keeping the colors
from fading.
In fact, Simoniz and Simoniz Kleener are
regarded as almost indispensable in the care
of Duco and lacquers, for they make it
possible to retain the lustre and beauty of
these motor-car finishes for years.
There is no excuse for anyone driving a
cloudy and dull-looking car, for it is so easy
to get wonderful, lasting results icitli Simoniz
and Simoniz Kleener. Simoniz Kleener
quickly restores the lustre and color by
removing all grime , discolorations and blem-
ishes. Then Simoniz gives lasting beauty
and weatherproof protection.
The sooner you Simoniz your car, the better.
NEW CARS should always be Simonized.
Insist on Simoniz and Simoniz Kleener-
they make the finish last longer.
MOTORISTS WISE SIMONIZ.
Sold by all Good Motor Houses, Service Stations and
Hardware Stores at 2/6 Small Cans; 5/- Large Cans.
In case you cannot obtain locally, see note below.
M
A
D
E
I
N
A
U
S
T
R
A
L
I
SIMONU
GRAPHITS QiU.
wmt*
m
olves nd
ANOTHER WONDERFUL
SIMONIZ PRODUCT—
SIMONIZ
PENETRATING
GRAPHITE
OIL
“LOOSENS THE TIGHTEST
NUT”
Simoniz Penetrating
Graphite Oil instantly
DISSOLVES RUST,
LUBRICATES CAR
SPRINGS,
STOPS CHASSIS
AND
BODY SQUEAKS,
FREES GUMMED
MOTOR VALVES,
LOOSENS ALL
TIGHT NUTS AND
BOLTS.
Sold in handy Boz. can
with long ppout. Price,
2/6. IF YOU'CANNOT
OBTAIN SIMONIZ PRO-
DUCTS FR 0 M YOUR
USUAL DEALER. SEND
POSTAL-NOTE TO
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORIS,
MOTORITE EQUIPMENTS PTY., LTD.,
Carlton, Melbourne.
FREE SAMPLES*
OF SIMONIZ AND
KLEENER ON REQUEST.
m *■*"
ttt TWRii fifes'
SIMO
•$*
wife*. &
~SCQUERS-DOCq-
AM
Apply with a cloth


7hp cen/ne of Queen s /anc/s
d/sZ/ngu/s/tedf Soc/o/ Life.
Iteiuwtß
di
motel
BRISBANE
ŵ
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Lines.
'-siii-s
BOIS
Silver* *o p
DRY GIN
0
SILVER. CAP
In the square
glass bottle with
the Green label
352 YEARS’
EXPERIENCE
guarantees
its quality
EXTRA HIGH GRADE
SMOkUNG TOBAGO
i
ts
ualit
is
Unequalled
19 per 2oz Tin
SMOKE-OH!
ŵ
WITHOUT TRICE.
“A priceless chap!'’ they said he was;
It struck me as a joke.
However, I agreed because
1 knew that he was broke.
Doric.
* *
“Safety last,” is the N.S.W, miners’ new
slogan.
¥ #
To Treasurers every taxpayer’s pocket has
a silver lining.
The MacDonald Ministry has spread a
Webb to catch Dominion flies.
“The Teacup” Cafe has been opened in
Sydney. Bound to be storms in it.
y y
CONVENTIONAL LIES OF OUR
CIVILISATION.
“My dear, the baby is just exquisite.”
“It might have been made for you,
Moddom.”
“Oh yes, Mr. Dudde, I'm frightfully inter-
ested.”
“And you don't look a day older than
when we last met.”
“I am a Christian.”
“Thanks for the pleasant evening!”
“Ladies and gentlemen, I would sacrifice
all my wealth, aye my very life, for our
Empire.”
“By the way she runs, I thought I was
in a Rolls.”
YES, PA!
“That young man of yours stayed pretty
late last night.”
“Yes, pa I was showing him the family
photos.”
“Well, next, time show him the electric-light
bill.”
They can sneer at the modern miss, but
she’s a big hit with the men.
TABLOID TALKIE.
Reel One.
Client: “I hate to suspect my wife,
but”
Solicitor: “You should engage a private
detective. It doesn’t sound nice, but it’s
done.”
Client: “D’ y’ think the feller could get
evidence?”
Solicitor : “If it’s to be got.”
Client: “Of course, I don’t like it. But he
might be able to reassure me, and so give
me peace of mind.”
Reel Two.
Client: “Better file that petition of mine.”
Solicitor: “Did you find anything out?”
Client: “Yes —my wife. She’s hopped it
with your private detective.”
Count 99.
THE PROFESSORS TACKLE IT.
“The ‘accent’ problem raised by the ‘talkies’
promises to have many ramifications. Will a
‘standard’ English be evolved?”— Sydney News.
Professor de Vere: “We ah gath-ured liee-
ah to-day-ee, gen-til-men, to, ah, dee-bate
thee-ah per-ob-lem of sa-ee-ving fer-rom van-
dul chay-eengiz what Spensah, one of ow-er
ger-ra-test Ing-lish po-itz, has soo bee-u-ti-
fully dis-car-ibed as thee-ah well of Ing-lish
un-dee-fiuled’ ”
Professor MacDougall (challengingly) :
“Staunds Scuitland whaur she ded !”
Prof de V.: “Ow-er fur-rend hints that
wee should not ig-no-ah the tung-ah of Burnz,
the tung-ah of Sir Wol-ter, and, ah, gen-til-
men, Ay quate ag-garee”
Prof. O’Brien: “An’ Oi’d be obloiged, an’
so wood manuy more, if you’d koindly ree-
mimber that the tung's bin conthributid to
be a few frum Oukl Oirelund. Did niver a
wun av ye deloight in the illoquince of a
Burrke, the pomes of a Moore?
Prof, de V. (soothingly) : “Quate ! Quate! ’
Prof MacD.: “Whaur did yon teeterin’
rhymester Moore write guid moil's stuff such
as ‘Rabbie’ wrote? Mon, his lines on auld
Hornie ring like a Ileeland claymore:—
But fare ye weel, auld Nickie-ben!
0 wad ye tak a thoct on men!
Ye aiblins might—l dinria ken- —
Still hae a stake —
I’m wae to think upo’ yon den
Ev’n for your sake.
Prof. Llewellyn ( suavely ) : “It iss ferry
fine poittry, whateffer —ferry fine inteedt.
But, mark you, we should get along with
the peezniss. Oh ! yes, whateffer.”
Prof, de V.: Ay quate ag-ar-ee with Pro-
feess-or Lee-well-in. As Ay woz say-ee-ing,
wee must pree-serve thee tuifg of ow-o"r Shay-
kus-pee-ali; ow-er ray-ah Ben Jon-sun; ow-er
Poop ; ow-er Swift”
Prof. O’B.: “Another Oirishman.”
Prof. de V.: “Of ow-er phil-oss-o-pherz—
ow-er Dah-winz, ow-er Carlyulz”
Prof. Mac!). : “Scuitch!”
Prof, de V. ( lyrically ) : “Orl the goo-
oolden wurdz, annd-ah fer-aziz of theeze-ah
ger-rate wunz wee must ter-resure like joo-
wolls.”
Prof. Briggs : “Ah do-un’t wish ter boot in,
but coomin’, as Ab’m prood ter do, fra’
Yarksheer”-
Prof. Brown: “An’ I venture ter sy, as
one born an’ bred in Sydnee, an’ not
ushymed of it”
Prof. McD.: “Weel, weel, as Rabbie put
Prof. O’B.: “The Dooblin axint —famed
the wur-ruld overr”
Prof Briggs (hotly) : The lingo o’ grarnd
ole Yarksheer”
Prof. Llewellyn (revolted) : “No, no, Pro-
fessor Briggs. Not Yorkshire, whateffer ! Oh
dear, dear me, no !”
Prof Brown (loudly) : “An’. I say as an
Orstrylyun”
(Left debating.)
J. B. D.
* y.
PUTTING 'STRTJTH INTO THE
ADVERTISER.
Letter received recently by a Sydney fur-
nishing firm :
Dere Sir, me an’ Dave are coming to ’ave a
hoiliday in Sidney nex’ summer, and seeing by your
Ad. that .you supply a three-room cottage fully
furnished for £<ss, ’av’ decided to buy one. Please
kepe one for undersined in good seaside nayborood.
—Yors trewly Mrs. Annie Woop Woop.
P.S.—Wood be reddy to pay 10s. down and ballance
at ss. weekly, for sootable residence,, money to be
returned if Dave is hunable to let or sell same on
our return to Woop Woop.
H. H.
y y
AUc. Premier McPherson has been • re-
quested to substitute “mental patient” for
“lunatic” in all the appropriate Government
departments. It is understood that Dr. Earle
Page will move for the substitution of “a
collection of purulent matter in an acci-
dental cavity of the body” for “abscess” in
Mr. Hughes’s vocabulary during the forth-
coming session.
REVERSING THE ENGINE.
SHE: “He’s such a fool. I never know
what to say to him!”
HE: “It’s perfectly easy; you’ve only got
to speak before you think.”
t Sydney News: “H'e is an Oxford-street
University man.” Having passed in, no
doubt, on a Roads scholarship from one of
our great two-up schools.
* *
SYNTHESIS.
A smart ermine ooat may cost you a lot;
From your income ’twill take quite a slice.
And yet, though * a bargain you think you
have got,
It’s too often sheep at the price!
RiC.
FORESTALLED.
SINGE
ẃ
RISING TO THE OCCASION.
Sydney advt. of last week: “My household
doesn’t worry about strikes or gas short-
ages,” laughed May, gaily, to her friend
THE SORROWS OF A GREAT CITY.
“What do you think of the temptations of the great city now,
Dad?”
“Cripes, they make a man feel ’is years something terrible, Mum!”
Ethel. “We have an Electric Oooka, thank
goodness, and hubby has had all his meals
as usual.”
As the electric-light shortage arrives: “We
have bought one of the latest stoves, my dear.
A Buckyardo. Such a relief. You must come
and dine with us when we get some wood.”
The General Strike begins: “No, Maud,”
smiled that clever little woman .Janet. “The
water being cut off doesn’t affect us. You
see we had the foresight to instal one of
Blither’s Tanks.”
A week later : “Do get Henry to buy one
of those smart bullet-proof overcoats that all
the men are wearing, Winnie. I wouldn’t
dream of letting my Horace leave the house
without one. Ask for a S Hop-sit, with neat
tablet in side pocket on which to write dying
messages.”
Later: “Our new machine-gun arrived
yesterday,” said Joan happily. “We had it
fixed near the front verandah, where it
looks truly artistic camouflaged as a rock-
garden. It's an Exploso, you know. Lethal
and Co. always have the best, I think.
Don’t you? Beautiful lines; so easy to use;
and will kill at 440 yards without fail. They
send an expert to give one lessons; and it's
all included in the price, my dear.
The Revolution starts: “Mind you come
and see us in our new DucJcer’s Dug-out
when you get a chance, Blanche dear. Weird
Dobson’s fixed it up at 12- hours’ notice.
Their chief lines are Gotho-Moorish in
design and Georginn-cMw-Spanish-mission,
according to customer’s taste, and guaran-
teed safe.”
The Counter-Revolution: “And take my
advice, Muriel,” said Helen, as she and her
friend priced mourning remnants together.
“Give all your family work to Battlefields
Burials Co. Not only are they dignified,
reverent and most reasonable, but they
engage to collect the corpse wherever it may
be lying. Harold, Jim, Percy, my hubby
and now poor father have all been handled
by this firm. And I assure you the utmost
satisfaction has been given."
10-2-4.
“MAN’S INHUMANITY.”
It made my blood boil. What right had
he to abuse her so? Suddenly to my joy
she stopped and refused to go a foot further.
Serve him right, I
mused exultantly.
He swore at her,
coaxed her, and
then, losing his
temper, deliber-
ately kicked her.
It was too much.
I rushed across the
road and seized his
arm. “AAGiat do
you mean by it?”
I cried. “You’re
mad.” “Get to
Hell out of this,”
he answered ; “she’s
mine and I’ll treat
her as I wish.”
And he started to
tear her bonnet
off.
There was a
violent screech. A
quiver ran through
her miserable
frame. To my
horror the man
was disembowelling
her!
“Damn you !” he
yelled, in response
to my protests.
“Clear off and mind
your own busi-
ness.”
As he was a
large man, I obey-
ed. I have never
seen him since, I
never want to, for
I fear that the.
sight of him mis-
handling that
wretched old car
would tempt me to
say something.
ẅ
4D'S.
CHICK.
The wife says she’s impertinent,
And that she is I quite agree.
However, I am quite content
Because she gives her lip to me.
THE FREQUENT LOVER.
THE FOOL.
A fool there was
Who made a meet,
And. took the girl
To a far-back seat
In a picture-show,
Where the lights were low,
And kept his eyes
On the silver sheet.
A fool he was —
And she told him so
When they reached the glow
Of the outside street.
GRIN.


It®
•I
ov* E# **o*
IN THE WORLD!
R///RI
r/»^
*«
ESTABLISHED 1742.
ẁ
c Ap
B °n
m
LEs
111,
111
TsO


SUNSHINE
CULTIVATING
AND SEEDING
MACHINERY
ri
THE “SUNDERCUT” STUMP JUMP
DISC CULTIVATING PLOUGH
10-disc cuts 5 feet.
14-disc cuts 7 feet.
Unequalled for cultivating hard set fallow,
or fallow covered by heavy weed growth,
paddy-melon, stinkwort, thistles, etc.
Does splendid work in virgin Mallee soils.
Levers fitted for team or tractor pull.
a
0
y
'
w
W<L
y.
THE “SUNTYNE” COMBINED GRAIN
AND FERTILIZER DRILL AND
SPRING TYNE CULTIVATOR.
17 tyne, sows 8 rows, covering 5 ft.
25 tyne, sows 12 rows, covering 7 4 ft.
29 tyne, sows 14 rows, covering 8 ft.
33 tyne, sows 16 rows, covering 94ft.
41 tyne, sows 20 rows, covering 12ft.
49 tyne, sows 24 rows, covering 14ft.
Cultivates and sows to any desired depth.
Forms a compact seed bed with thoroughly
pulverised mulch. Tractor Hitch and
Lever can be fitted when ordered.
Write for descriptive literature, prices
and particulars of extended terms.
H. V. McKAY PTY,LTD
Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine,
Branches and Agencies:
664 BOURKE STREET WEST, MELBOURNE.
95-97 NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE.
27-39 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY.
Corner MURRAY AND KING STREETS, PERTH.
H. V. McKAY (QUEENSLAND), LTD., STANLEY STREET, SOUTH
BRISBANE.
:
" I always use R exon a
Soap for I find it un-
equalled for the skin
and hair.”
EILEEN PINKSTONE.
Beauty Competition
Winner.
Cciirefor ijc>iiir
Connipilmiion
The beauty of a fine, clear, healthy skin is more im-
portant than any other beauty feature. A girl who has a
clear, rosy complexion may lack a number of the points
which make beauty, and yet, be charmingly attractive,
but a girl who lacks a clear skin may have every feature
perfect, and still be unattractive. Complexion comes
before all other charms.
Every, girl cannot expect to have a flawless skin, but
she can with certainty expect to keep it at its best if
she always uses Rexona Soap.
Rexona is a pure mild soap, medicated with a little
Rexona. It cleanses thoroughly, yet gently, clears the
pores, soothes and tones the skin and provides necessary
protection against sun and wind.
m
XONA.
SOAP
for Health and Beaut
y
RS6R
w
M IT \j)
a\ SILICNi. SMOOTH! SIIIaWIE
....without painful “drag,” if you use the Plum Razor, ideal for wiry beards and tender skins.
Guaranteed and kept in order for two years free. Strongly-made grained-leather case with every razor.
Black Vulcanite Handle ........ 12/6 each
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 ~
Real Ivory Handle 21/- „
Satin-lined double
case free with
every pair.
X
7-day sets —7 razors in case:
Black, 85/->Xylo, 100/-; Ivory, 140/-
Post Free to Any Address.
IPMJM Razor
FPL 4.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


JUfAGNAVOX
JL v JbL dynamic loud speakers
EACH musical instrument is
made clearly distinguishable
—the piano sounds like a piano,
the cello like a ’cello; not like each
other.
Each note —from booming bass to
soaring treble —comes in with
crystal clarity.
Original tone values are repro-
duced, unimpaired, not ‘ muffled
or “fogged.’’
UNITS ONLY FROM £7/157-
CABINET MODELS FROM £lO
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL RADIO DEALERS
WHOLESALE & RETAIL DISTRIBUTORS IN ALL STATES.
ŵ
Cruising to
JAVA and
SUMATRA
First-class round fare to Belawan
Deli (Sumatra), calling at Java ports,
Singapore and Penang: From Brisbane
and Sydney, £99; from Melbourne,
£lO5.
The K.P.M. invites you to wonder and wander in Java and
Sumatra, islands of exotic attractions.
Glorious days at sea, the comforts and conveniences of the
great Liners Nieuw Holland and Nieuw Zeeland will be a
delightful holiday for you.
The steamer is your hotel for the round voyage.
Full particulars from
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION COMPANY
(K.P.M. Line),
255 George Street, Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., 11l William Street, Melbourne; Calgety & Co., Brisbane;
Elder, Smith & Co., Adelaide and Perth.
“The Safe Food”
Food
Reed. Tbadk Mark.
Owing to constant re-
commendation and use by
medical men, and because
it is so easily digested,
Benger’s has become known
as “the safe Food” for In-
fants, Invalids and the Aged.
Send for Benger’s Booklet, post free.
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd.,
3SO, George Street, SYDNEY.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your fancy, write
to the Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
Pen and Picture
Shadow Shows
“The Silent House” presents a quiet
English countryside as thickly populated
with sinister Celestials as Shantung, a
gentleman’s residence as full of sliding panels
as a “crook” trades-union ballot, and a plot
as packed with improbabilities as an oil
prospectus. Mabel Poulton plays Miss
T’Mala, . the woman without a mind and
without a memory, and the part gives a
capable actress no opportunities for anything
but histrionics. As screened by British
Dominion Films, the piece is only a little less
imbecile than it was when Moscovitcli played
it in Australia.
“Modern Marriage” (First National) is a
well-acted film, worked out more logically
than the 5)237 other treatments of the same
BETTY BRONSON.
theme t h a t
have appeared
on the screen.
Betty Bron-
son, who has
a mouth of
aston i s h i n g
smallness for
Hoi 1 y w o o d,
leads nicely,
and the domes-
tic troubles of
two genera-
tions are un-
folded in a
terse and dra-
in at i c way.
The film takes
on e striking
liberty with
probability. A
wealthy New
York girl,
aged (appa-
rently) about
19, marries a
man to whom
she is devoted, but wedded bliss is cut short
because, according to the film captions, the
girl was innocent of the meanipg of mar-
riage, although a little stranger was in the
offing when her three-months’ husband left
her and she destroyed herself. There’s one
advantage in the speeding-up that is in all
films—it helps the average observer smoothly
over bumps like that.
Somerset Maugham’s “Rain” was a story
of considerable veracity. The conversion
of a missionary’s pious concentration on the
sinful soul of a girl into a not altogether
disinterested concern for her body is a plaus-
ible subject for a drama. It might happen
anywhere. Maugham made it seem the more
likely to happen by accompanying it with the
demoralising obligato of the tropical rain-
fall. The Chinese tortured prisoners by
letting water drip on their heads drop by
drop, until they lost their wits as surely
as if somebody had dashed them out with
a waddy. Maugham let the rain drum on
the emotions of his puppets with similar
consequences. In “Sadie Thompson,” United
Artists' film version of Maugham’s story, there
is rain—lots of it —but it has as much
dramatic significance as Mr. Swizzlestick’s
maunderings at the Wurlitzer. That is
where a writer equipped with a threepenny
bottle of ink and a bad pen lias it all over
the screen magicians with their inexhaustible
resources. Maugham creates more emotion
with two hundred words about rain than the
Hollywood producer can with the whole town
water supply. The picture is a poor effort,
even forgetting its alleged asssociation with
the story, though Lionel Barrymore achieves
some fine acting as the South Sea island
Athaniel. Gloria Swanson’s idea of Sadie is
composed of liip-wriggling, ferocious grimac-
ing and a restlessness that suggests bull-ants
in her underclothing.
“The Terror,” the Warner Bros.’ Vita-
phone 100 p.c. talkie with Cinesound presen-
tation, is one grand thrill from start to
finish and for children of all The
screen is the proper place for Edgar Wallace.
When Moscovitch played “The Terror” he
was a good actor trying to be realistic in a
drama that shrieked its unreality, from the
moment when the ghostly organ notes eman-
ated from a very material orchestra to the
moment when the pillar in the monastic
cellar disgorged a shower of gold emblematic
of the returns to be expected at the box-
office. There is no place for true realism
in “The Terror,” which is all cheerful idiocy
and blow the artistic consequences ! For
instance, there is music to the scenes in Scot-
land Yard, but the spectacle of bobbies exam-
inging crooks to the accompaniment of bits
of Wagner is accepted without comment.
The film scores by reason of ,tlie excellence
of some of its types. Otto Hoffman, as Soapy
Marks, is an admirable bit of character ex-
aggeration: The dialogue is fortunately not
one of the terrors of “The Terror.” Most
of the voices are remarkable for their crisp :
ness and clarity.
More Small-talk: —
“The Ingenues.”—The jazz sirens wdio
were here in the plump and pleasing flesh
a year ago. The poor entertainment nrovided
by this animated photo, with musical accom-
paniment is a sufficient answer to the claim
that all amusement is going to be photo-
graphed for 11s in the great and glorious
talkie future.
“The Bookworm.”---A knockabout comedy,
in which Harry J. Conley gives vent to a
flair for unrestrained farce, accompanied by
a voice somewhat baggy at the vowels and
without a seat to its consonants.
“Under the Sea.” —Starts off like an advt.
for Uncle Sam’s efficiency in submarines,
and ends up with four vaudevillains in naval
uniform singing “Sailing, Sailing, Over the
Bounding Main,” ostensibly at the bottom of
the ocean. Excellent male voices
Anna Case, celebrated operatic soprano, in
“La Fiesta,” a Spanish operetta. Voice so
admirably reproduced that the eye becomes
critical of the bad photography of stage set-
ting and people behind singer. Also color
in music calls for color in background, and,
of course, there isn't any.
“Light Cavalry” overture, by Vitaphone
Symphony Orchestra. Plenty of volume in
this, but it shares with the radio loud-
speaker the queer greasiness that suggests
that the notes have been spending their
leisure rolling in a barrel of dripping.
For all the above, Vitaphone-Cinesound
are to ,be held responsible.
The Palette
Judging by his exhibition at Horderns’
Gallery, Sydney, W. Follen Bishop achieves
by accident rather than design. There is
plenty of design in his paintings, but too
often it is that of English magazines’ Christ-
mas covers. His coloring, too, is conven-
tional and without feeling in most of the
pieces, though there arc a few that reveal
what the artist is capable of doing when he
gets away from his smooth conventions.
“Blueprint”: In the advertising of Syd-
ney’s new flicker theatre the folk of the
Harbor City have been introduced to an
abstraction known to draughtsmen as “aerial
perspective.” The building is pictured as
tapering towards the top, if the viewpoint be
street level, or tapering to the bottom if
glimpsed from above. That’s one of the
things a camera can see but the human eye
can’t, and for a very good reason. The
person who stands on the other side of the
street and squints up at a skyscraper can’t
focus the whole of its facade at once, hut
takes it in a few storeys at a time, and
gets no perspective. As soon as one is far
enough away to take in the ensemble of a
rectangular structure, however ta'll, there is
no .impression of vertical perspective. The
old-fashioned rules of perspective which
accord no taper to vertical parallel lines are
based on a sound optical rule.
The Inky Way
H. Curwen, departmental roundsman for
the Age (Melbourne), has been elected gen-
eral president of the A.J.A., in succession to
Frank Murphy, who had completed his term.
Curwen came from the Speck four or five
years ago, and has dug in solidly on the
Syme journal. With the new award that
became operative on June 1, and which has
a tenure of five years, Curwen ought to have
pretty smooth sailing.
“Adel.”: It. T. Foster, lately editor of
Adelaide Register, has gone to London
under engagement to United Cables. He was
little more than a boy when he joined the
Register staff 20 years ago, but rose steadily
till he succeeded Robert Burns in the
editorial chair.
“P.C.”: Sydney surfers are to have a
weekly of their own at the end of August.
It is to be called the Figaro, and wall be
edited by Con Drew, writer of racy books
and short stories and hundreds of Bulletin
pars. The whole field of sport will be cov-
ered by Con and his associates, but surfing
will bo the leading feature.
“C.”: Add Arizona’s contribution to the
list of aptly-named American newspapers, the
Tombstone Epitaph.
“Morehead”: Bulletin contributor Quen-
tin Pope is one of the most industrious young
men in Maoriland. He has just completed
an anthology of Maoriland verse, he has
written a book on the theatre which is to
be published in London, and he is doing a
power of work for the United party, of
which he recently became secretary. Another
Maoriland scribe who has caught the antho-
logy fever is Owen Gillespie. Gillespie has
been commissioned by Dents to compile a col-
lection of short stories by M.L. writers.
“Lao-dah”: Journalists have been called
upon to do some queer things in the interests
of public enlightenment, but a new one was
thought of for two young Melb. Herald men.
Dr. Dale, the City Health Officer, declared that
a solution of the problem of feeding the
unemployed would be an iron ration con-
sisting of a lib. wholemeal loaf impregnated
with milk, 2oz. of butter and an orange, a
diet, he maintained, that was sufficient to
keep a man in normal health. One of the
young men volunteered to adopt the ration
while the other stuck to his usual diet, After
four days the orange-and-milk youth returned
to his ordinary regimen, but it was trium-
phantly announced that he had put on a
pound in weight. Whether the unemployed
watched the experiment as eagerly as the
promoters is another matter.
“Mr. Bumble” : Randolph Bedford’s action
for defamation against the Charleville (Q.)
Western Sun, L. S. Cook and J. M. Ilard-
castle has had a remarkable sequel. Ran-
dolph was awarded £5OO and costs against
Cook and Hardcastie. The paper was printed
by machinery supplied under the hire-pur-
chase system by Edwards, Dunlop and Co.,
and that well-known concern was presently
informed that, since the plant on the pre-
mises was not sufficient to satisfy the judg-
ment, it wms proposed to issue execution
against all printing stocks it held in Queens-
land. The Sydney co. applied for an injunc-
tion restraining the plaintiff from this course,
but the Judge decided against it, stating
that, under Section 43 of the Act, the suc-
cessful party was entitled to levy on “the
whole of the types, presses and printing
materials belonging to'the person whose types,
presses or printing materials, or any part
thereof, were used in printing such defama-
tory matter, to whomsoever same may be-
long at the time of the levy.” The statute
in question was borrowed by Queensland
from N. S. Wales; it has long since been
repealed in the Ma State.


y&
sa
KM
No. 99 SET. Contains the essentials for a
perfect “Valet” shave—the razor,
strop and three blades in leather-
ette-covered case
3/-
Managing Agents for Australia •'—
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
New Zealand Agents:
VAN STAVEREN BROS., Ltd., Auckland, Wellington and Christchurch.
“What does that mean —‘Strops
itself’?”
“There’s a stropping device built into
the head of the razor —strop just slips
through the razor head!”
“Yes —and then? ”
“Then all you do is run the Valet Auto-
Strop razor to and fro. Click, click—
and the blade is instantly sharpened
without taking it out of the frame.”
“Surely that sharpens only one side
of the edge?”
“No, no both sides are stropped
alternately.”
“Should be pretty sharp when
you’ve finished.”
“Sharp! It’s the keenest razor edge
there is—and it lasts for months.”
‘Stropping take long?”
* Ten seconds each morning, and you
get the same principle right through
the Valet range: 3/-, 10/- or 22/6.
All dealers sell them.”
“Good. I’ll get one to-day.”
IS Million Motor Cars
scattered throughout the world are now equipped with one of
the ALEMITE Systems of Lubrication* All these cars are protected
against repair bills* 80% of all repairs on the moving parts of a
motor car come from one cause, namely lack of proper lubrication.
The ALEMITE Systems of Lu-
brication thoroughly lubricate
every vital chassis bearing. Old,
gritty, wornout grease is forced
out. Clear, clean, Alemite Lubri-
cant — a solidified oil—is forced
into the bearing under tremend-
ous pressure. Every bearing is
thoroughly cleaned and at the
same time lubricated.
Throughout Australia there are Alemite
Service Stations. “ALEMITE-ING” every
500 miles will make your car run silently
and smoothly and it will be perfectly lubri-
cated at all times.
If there is no Alemite Service Station near
you we suggest you write to any of the addresses
given below and full information will be sent you
about “ALEMITE-ING
as
% yjai
ALEMITE MANUFACTURING CORPORATION
ChiCagO DIVISION OF STEWART-WARNER U #
Full particulars from
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH
Resident Manager
250 Pitt Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
yr
A
\
Or from the following representatives:
Bennett & Wood, Ltd. . 284 Pitt St., Sydney
Motor Supplies, Ltd. . . . Brisbane
■
Atkins (W. A.), Ltd. . . 894 Hay Street, Perth
E. A. Machin & Co. Pty., Ltd,. 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
Cornell Limited, 122 Pirie St., Box G.P.0., 496 E. Adelaide
For the Dominion of New Zealand: Jas. J. Niven & Co., 152 Wakefield Street, Wellington, N. Z.
ALEMITE
HIGH PRESSURE LUBRICATION
JRK


ŵ
ẁ
'WINCHESTER NE w model 53
REPEATING RIFLE
Made in 3 Calibres, 25/20, 32 and 44
_ _ , ~ ■ a . ,-.1.3 »qo model under lever action Winchester, which
This new model has the same action asJi This new model, however, is fitted with a
has for many years been so popular among shooters. , . mnu VELOCITY SUPER-
-22 INCH NICKEL STEEL BARREL, which is specially adapted to HiCH VELOCII Y SUPER
SPEED and HI-SPEED Cartridges, which have a range of oOOJARDSL Length of nfie .19 inches
over all. Weight 61b. Handy for carrying on horseback or in the car Don tto get
6-SHOT REPEATER. The under-lever action is the most reliable known.
wb-
THE GUN PEOPLE,
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
ẁ
neysider jumped all right, but galloped in
sulky style.
The Juvenile race at Caulfield was appro-
priated by Galenist, whom John Wren must
have grown tired of backing; the Burraba-
deen filly was a 20 to 1 pop. Consistent Har-
binger (6 to 1) led home tin* Richmond Han-
dicap field, in which Cecil Godby and friends
made another disastrous plunge on Imitator,
least reliable.of the Magpie family. Har-
binger is by Sir Dighton—Fulita. Andrew
Chirnside, who has been out of luck since
Blackadder romped home in the A.J.C.
Epsom of 1924, annexed the Cambria Welter
with Dark Dawn (9 to 2). another son of
All Black. In drizzling rain, Hugh Cairns
piloted Harry Gavin (13 to 2) to victory
in the Rosny Plate. Harry Gavin’s repeated
successes indicate that the early death of
Eurythmic, his sire, was a loss to tins turf.
* * * *
.For Moonee Valley on Saturday:—
Nindarra Hurdle: Kentle; next, Tiki.
Travancore Steeple : Parquin ; next, Moss-
trooper.
* * * *
Moorefield (N.S.W.), as well as Caulfield,
had a bad smash on Saturday—five horses
came down in the first division of the Flying
Welter, and two of the jockeys had to
be borne to the nearest hospital. The acci-
dent happened at the home turn, and was
a sickening affair to watch. The stewards
reported that there was nothing wrong with
the track, but it is questionable whether
fields of 16 should
hi* allowed in six-
furlong races on
courses like Moore-
field and Canter-
bury Park, lierilda
(5 to 1), who had
run prominently
at Rosehill, won
from Shankara and
Gun Club ; his divi-
dend on the grand-
stand tote was just
on 11 to 2, though
there were two
other divs.
Tindall, who has
a stable full of
two-year-olds and
has been very suc-
cessful with them,
produced a good
one in the Juvenile
Handicap in Wood-
gera, a bay colt by
Australian Sun —
Orvietta. Backed
from 6 to 1 to
threes, the stylish-
looking fellow had
too much pace for
the others, and he
will be heard of
again.
• • •
At this time of
the year middle-
distance handicap
horses are usually
an untrustworthy
lot, but Jeypore is
a model of consis-
tency. For the
third time in four
starts he made
every post a win-
ner in the' princi-
pal event of the
day—on this occa-
sion the Moorefield Handicap—and nothing
could get near him over the last furlong of
10. run in 2min. 7sec. Lord Romeo and Speech-
maker (an early winner) dead-heated for
second. Jeypore, who is Queensland-bred
(he is by Highfield—Broncurry) went out
at 7 to 1. He doesn’t go up in the weights
much, and has only 7st. 81b. in the Metro-
politan.
Rozener, who had been interfered with,
though not hurt, in the race in which the
accident occurred, was saddled up again for
the Rockdale Mile, and backed from 10’s to
6’s. He won, too, though it was all he
could do to stall off the outsider Eharmonte
(33 to 1). Silver Billy was one of several
warm favorites during the day to run dis-
appointingly.
* * * *
For Canterbury Park on Saturday
Flying Handicap : Garrula; next, Green-
corn.
Canterbury Cup : Octember ; next, Aorangi.
Ashbury Handicap: Sharp Son; next,
Lord Kennaquhair.
* * * *
A. G. Crawford, recently appointed sec-
retary to the Queensland Turf Club in suc-
cession to the late Maurice Baldwin, waited
a long time to come into his kingdom. He
began work with the Q.T.C. 21 years ago,
and was assistant sec. during the past few
years.
ẃ
THE OBVIOUS ADVANTAGE.
KEEN GOLFER (to tennis friend): “Now, you couldn’t possibly
enjoy a game of tennis on a day like this.”
ẅ
Playing at Brisbane, the N.S.W. Rugby
League side beat Queensland in a rougn
game by 16-14, or 4 tries and 2 goals to -
tries and 4 goals, the latter all by full-back
Upton. N.S.W. led 14-2 at half-time, but
hard rucking by the Queensland forward*
in the second half allowed only - uioie
points, while the Northerners added 1-•
Among the candidates for the English tour.
Finch and Spencer, the N.S.W. and Queens-
land wingers, were most attractive, both
scoring in tine style. The forwards on
both sides were evenly matched, with
Queensland getting possession the more
often. Handling was generally bad, and the
Queensland inside backs were the chief offen-
ders. The flinty Exhibition Ground was
responsible for many minor casualties. This
makes the fourth consecutive win for the
season by N.S.W. and the first match won
by the Ma State in Brisbane since 1927.
After Saturday’s game in Brisbane the side
for England will be chosen. On the form in
the first game there may be some surprises,
especially in regard to the old brigade.
* * * *
“Gale” : Alarmed at the steady advance of
the Rugby Union game in N.S.W. and
Queensland, the N.S.W. League is now
sparking on all cylinders in an endeavor to
extend its prestige. The State team for
Queensland was dragged off the train at
Inver ell, which has always remained a
staunch Union centre, in order to give the
benighted supporters of the amateur code an
idea of the beauties of its professional rival.
The locals were murdered to the tune of
76 to nil, which is hardly encouraging.
Efforts are also being made to form a
Riverina League with headquarters at
Albury. That area has long been sealed to
the Australian game.
He * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: The N.S.W. Rugby
League team now in Queensland departed
from Sydney in circumstances of unusual
gloom. For one thing, the players were
openly hostile to the extension of the tour
to Rockhampton, entailing as it does a long
extra train journey and playing on hard
grounds. Officialdom, too, was pessimistic.
One potentate in particular was troubled
about the cost of despatching 25 players and
officials to the North. If gates were not
better than heretofore, the tour was “going
to be on the disastrous side.” Which is
where the shoe pinches. The League split
in Queensland has extended to the cash tak-
ings, and even the attraction of an. inter-
state match may not drag m sufficient of
the apostate Brisbane Rugby League’s sup-
porters tp balance the ledger. They have been
staying away from the Q.R.L. competition
matches with, marked enthusiasm.
* * * *
“Tufi”: Civilisation here in Port Moresby
is advancing at the double. The other day,
three colored gentlemen, Konropipan, Mala-
guna and Marto, appeared before a
Papuan beak on a charge of riotous
behavior. It appeared that a call came
to the police on a Saturday afternoon,
and on arrival tin; John Hops found
two native football teams, the barrackers and
the referee all engaged in a heartfelt come-all-
ye. The three named offenders got 14 days
each in the calaboose, so some of the reserves
will have to be called on for the next couple
of rounds. Wild missionaries will not drag
the name of the particular code involved, but
there is no harm in guessing.
* * * *
“Stousli” : One hears complaints in N.S.W.
Rugby League circles of the recrudescence of
rough and foul play, especially in one of
the recent matches between Queensland and
N.S.W. in Sydney, and it is urged that the
authorities take drastic steps to prevent, it.
I disagree. Our lads are shortly to engage
the professional teams of the North of Eng-
and. As these gentlemen have themselves
told the world, and as some recently returned
Australians who had been playing as profes-
sionals with English clubs have pointed out,
a high standard of stoush is essential in those
parts. In my opinion, American pugs, and
wrestlers should be hired to perfect the
team’s technique before it leaves these shares.
$ #
“Shrewsbury”: Charlie Oliver the Canter-
bury (M.L.) five-eighth, now in Sydney with
the All Blacks, can claim an unusual distinc-
tion. He is the only antipodean athlete who
has represented his country in Test-match
cricket and football, with the possible excep-
tion of Dacre, who figured in Soccer matches
against Australian teams . as well as in first-
class cricket at home and in the Old Country,
where Oliver was a team mate. There are
many English instances, A. E. Stoddart and
C, B. Fry being only two. Perhaps the
absolute record double is that of .T. C. Parke,
who represented Ireland in Union football
and England in tennis.
“Ananias Walton” : Maoriland is greatly
exercised ovei* the capture of a genuine tuna
or tunny, the first of its kind to be garnered
in M L. waters, though it is common enough
off the Australian coasts in season. The
tuna is one of the great game fishes.
w
THIS FREEDOM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Gill tennis players are puzzled at the decision
ol the Wimbledon authorities to leave it to the
taste of the competitors whether they should play
in bare legs. Even the originator of the barelegged
idea is not certain what she will do.”
Why the pout, my pretty Phyllis?
Has your Strephon turned you down?
With some scheming Amaryllis
Does he sport, the fickle clown?
Does inconstancy engender
All the wrath I feel aglow
In that bosom erst so tender?
But the maiden answered, “No!”
As she tightened a suspender,
Did the maiden answer “No!”
Is it then discovered meanness
In some girl-friend you adore?
Or the unaccustomed leanness
Of a purse, while prices soar
All your hopes of pretties mocking?
Do you tread financial bogs?
“If they’d only called it shocking,"
Murmured she, “the dirty dogs!”
As she hauled upon a stocking,
Gritted she, “The dirty dogs!”
Then she blazed in anger splendid,
And quite lustily she swore,
Just as only vulgar men did
In the dismal days of yore.
With a “Blank and blast and blight it!
If they said it was unchaste,”
Cried the maiden, “one could fight it;
But they leave it to good taste.”
At a ball —she paused to smite it —
Yelled the maiden, “Our good taste!”
“If they dared to name it ugly
Or immoral or absurd,
Anything but sit there smugly
And refuse to say a word !
If they only ruled we couldn’t,
Then with stockings we’d be through ;
For if someone says she shouldn’t,
Why, a girl knows what to do.
But the beastly blighters wouldn’t.”
Wailed the maiden. “What’ll I do?”
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


MATCH LESS
AFCOMA
DRY GlNs
•WufOl Wi MO «*
O^Tml***
"Ei'ftOU*** - :===
ft
V
SS6K&
§
.
-S-C7
u Months of research abroad; working
and inveUigating wherever dividing
was done ; rejecting commonplace prac-
tice; accepting only the bell frtm all
known methods; improving on old
formula by the use of modern apparatus
.... thus our che min produced in
Cryflal Court not only Australia's
first, but the World’s finest dry gm.
PRICE;
BERRY
AN aroma apart . . . individual, enticing, aristocratic. The outcome
of a distilling method won from world-wide research, the aroma
of Crystal Court Dry Gin is allied with its matchless purity and
clarity —an alliance which has won for it the title of "Australia’s First
and the World’s Finest Dry Gin."
As a medicinal spirit Crystal Court is pre-eminent . . . because it’s pure.
As a bracing tonic it is the favorite of all men . . . because it's pure.
As the basis of any mixed drink it is hailed by connoisseurs . * * because
it's pure.
Crystal Court Dry Cin is obtainable at all Hotel Bars ,
Bottle Departments and Licensed Stores.
Many valuable reefpes for cocktails and other pleasing drinks are contained in our little
booklet, "Here’s How. Ask for a free copy when next you order Crystal Court Gin,
or write direct to Federal Distilleries Pty. Ltd., Port Melbourne.
y
DRY GIN
QUADRUPLE DISTILLED FOR, PURITY'S SAKE


Chosen by prominent stage
folk, public speakers and
singers.
They protect the throat and
keep the voice clear.
‘Allenbur<ys*
SSSnL PASTILLES
Your Chemist stocks them.
1/- and 1/9 per box.
Accommodation
160.
Central,
Comfortable,
Convenient,
5 Mts. G.P.O,
Excellent
Cuisine,
Billiards,
Dancing.
ORIENTAL HOTEL
(No License)
KING’S CROSS, SYDNEY.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET.
TARIFF:
£3/3/- to
£4/4/-
Weekly,
11/6 to 13/6.
Room & B’fast,
8/6 to 9/6
FL2034
F 3575
Daily,
W&W26.
Australian
m
mm
%
London Office:
‘'Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAN*
<££)
BRANS
Containing about 99.9.)V0 Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association [Vo.
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
W. W. GREENER
GUN
Value £lOO
will be shot for at the
MELBOURNE
GUN CLUB
Commonwealth
Championship Meeting in
July.
FOR PARTICULARS APPLY TO
F. TUBB,
Leeds Street, Canterbury, Vi«.
BERT: w SORRy YOU CANT COME DEAR*!
" IT WOULD BE TOO QISkV. "
* 1M GOING FOR A SCULI_"
GERT:" ARE YOU GOING TO DIG IT UP
WITH THOSE FUNNY SHOVELS ?
Footbrawl
N.S.W. and Tasmania met under the Aus-
tralian code at Sydney Cricket Ground on
Saturday, the Sydney men winning a splen-
did display by a point in the last minute,
to the great delight of the 6000-odd spec-
tators. The match see-sawed for the greater
part till Tasmania drew away, leading 79
to 60 at the end of the third quarter. The
Welshmen then clapped on steam and ran
out at full-time winners by 99 (14-10) to
98 (10-S). The Tasmanian handling and
combination was the better, but the con-
dition and pace of their opponents found the
visitors out. Milton headed the local scoring
with 0 goals; Rait, with 7, was Tassy’s crack
marksman.
* it *
“Hotham”: Having stoushed South Aus-
tralia at Melbourne in the first inter-State
match of the season, the Victorian National
League has chosen a strong side of 24 to
visit Perth for the centenary carnival.
W.A. will be engaged on July 6 and 9, while
a return, game will '>e played against South
Australia at Adelaide on July 13. Though
over a dozen of the cracks, including Warne
Smith, were unable to make the trip, the
side is a solid one, even if the method of
drawing two players from each club has been
adopted. It will need to be solid, for the
Westralians have a knack of winning on
their home midden.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: An argument between Aus-
tralian and Rugby football-addicts in Mel-
bourne as to the first inter-State football
match ever played in Australia lias led to
an interesting discovery. The pioneer was
Carlton, the old club having visited Sydney
in 1877. The Victorians were opposed by
the Sydney Waratah club, long defunct, in
two matches, one under Rugby Union rules
and one under the Australian code, then
known as “Victorian rules.” Waratah, by
the way, was the first club to win the
N.S.W. premiership. That was in 1874.
* * * *
The Rugby Union grade matches in Sydney
provided a surprise on Saturday, when
hitherto undefeated Randwfick went down to
Northern Suburbs by 20 to 13. Good, honest
rucking forwards and four goals by
Rutliven were the factors in the Northerners’
success. A rattling game at University Oval
saw the home side finish a point ahead of
Y.M.C.A., Lamport and Mann being bril-
liant for the winners. Manly had its work
cut out to beat fast-improving St. George by
14-11, while Western Suburbs galloped over
East at Hampden Oval by 32-17. Glebe-
Balmain had a comfortable win from Police
at St. Luke’s, scoring 20-3.
* * * *
“Stand Off” : The displays of Queensland
and Victoria in the Union games on Sydney
Cricket Ground this season have already
borne fruit, the Australian selectors having
chosen four players from Queensland and
three from Victoria to practise in Sydney for
the first Australian v. Maoriland match
on July 6. Of the Queenslanders, Bonis, a
very* successful hooker, and Ilamalainen and
Thompson are forwards who have been pro-
minent in the matches with N.S.W. Lawton
needs no introduction, and will probably fill
the five-eighth position in the Australian side.
The Victorians are Edwards, a heavy and vig-
orous front-row forward, just the type for a
game against the All Blacks, and Cowper and
Sturtridge, three-quarter and five-eighth re-
spectively. Both are high-class players, but
there are many sterling claimants for their
positions. Both, however, may get their
chance before the series is over.
* * * *
“Akarana” (M.L.) : Though the Australian
University side in M.L. proved. to be dis-
appointing, this was largely due to the loose
qualification for M.L. University sides. Ex-
cept for Otago, which is almost fully
residential, the M.L. Universities are accus-
tomed to call not only on undergraduates,
of whom there is usually only a small propor-
tion in the teams, hut also on graduates of
long standing, with or without a lecture
qualification. As a result, men who have not
attended a university for years figure in
the matches, and are blithely described by
the sporting press as “the students.” The
Australians consequently met men averaging
24 or 25 years of age and of “set” physique.
They struck M.L. University Rugby at its
.strongest. In every main centre the Uni-
versity teams were coek-o’-the’-walk last y*ar,
an • unprecedented occurrence.
* * * *
“Komate” : Up to the present invasion the
All Blacks have played 35 international
matches, won 20, drawn 3 and lost 6. The
Springboks have beaten them three times
and drawn with them once. Australia has won
twice and drawn once, while in Europe the
3-0 victory snatched by Wales in 1005 is
the only point against them. M.L.’s score
against the Springboks is three wins and a
draw, so pegging is level there for the seven
matches played. Of the 14 games played
against Australia, 11 have been won and
one drawn, the series, to be renewed this
season, ceasing in 1914. The best tliaf Brit-
ish teams, other than Wales, have done
against them is the 3-3 draw by Harding’s
Anglo-Welsh side at Wellington (ivx.L.) in
1908.
* * * *
The Rugby League competition matches in
Sydney on Saturday saw South Sydney
maintain its undefeated record, the premiers,
despite the absence of many of their lead-
ing players in Brisbane, beating North Syd-
ney 10-2, at Sydney Sports Ground. The
game was very rough at times, a man from
each side being sent off, while others de-
served the same fate. Eastern Suburbs went
down 18-13 to St. George at Earl Park.
Newtown, at home at Marrickville, downed
Balmain by 23 to 11. At Wentworth Oval,
University won its first point for the season
by drawing 6-0. the students scoring two
tries to three goals.
* * * *
“Jacky .Tacky”: Condobolin, one of the
N.S.W. country League clubs, has earned
unenviable notoriety by refusing to meet a
team of aboriginals from a near by settle-
ment in a local cup match, with the result
that they have forfeited the utensil.
They have not improved their position
by taking a motion before the dis-
trict League asking for the, removal of
the abo. team from competition matches. As a
writer in the Sydney League press states,
such an attitude seems out of place “in a
combination playing the democratic League
game.” For a parallel one must go to
South Africa. There the Kaffirs are rigidly
confined to their own football clubs and
organisations, though there are many players
in their ranks capable of adding distinc-
tions to the Springbok jersey.
Racquet and Bawl
The long-looked-for match in Sydney be-
tween J. O. Anderson and Jack Crawford
drew a crowd of 6000 to the White City
tennis courts. The veteran started off in
great form, taking the first two sets, each
6-4. Crawford, warming up, came into hjs
own in the third set, and. wearing down his
opponent, who has had little match practice
of late, won right off the reel, 6-1, 6-2, 6-1.
Veteran Jim Willard beat Hopman in two
straight sets, while and Dunlop
beat Crawford and'Hopman 7-5. 6-3. Daphne
Akhurst won from Miss Bickerton by three
sets to two.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: For the first time for years
Australia has not an official representative
at the Wimbledon meeting. Almost every
other civilised country in the globe will have
someone carrying its banner, but the
country which has won the Davis Gup sev-
oral times and has carried oft the English
championships on several occasions is con-
tent to do the Achilles act in its tent. The
French have such a powerful entry —only
Lacoste is absent —that victory in the men’s
singles- seems a foregone conclusion for them
again. Helen Wills looks a bird for the
women’s singles, while Hunter and Helen
seem good for the mixed doubles, and Cochet
and Brugnon for the men’s doubles. It there
is going to be an upset, the writer picks
those hardy veterans Tilden and Hunter as
likely to bring it about
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Some interesting
sidelights were cast on the manly and
allegedly amateur sport of tennis at the
meeting of the N.S.W. Tennis Council, the
other day. A delegate moved that the
example of Victoria be followed, and that
the tennis organisation refuse to accept
trophies or donations from sporting-goods
manufacturers or retailers, or countenance
clubs which accepted such trophies. Tlie
motion was lost, though another delegate
averred that the acceptance of such bak-
sheesh predisposed officials of the clubs in
favor of the firms giving the trophies. He
also remarked that executive officers of clubs
and associations were in the habit of accept-
ing these little presents for their personal
benefit. No one denied the charge.
* * * *
“Baseline” : The Tin Gods of Australian
tennis occasionally lapse into a sensible atti-
tude of mind. The Australian Council has
notified the State bodies that it desires that
the Hinton Cup tourneys for young ’uns should
be changed from, a knock-out competition to
a series of matches between the players of
each State, to be decided by points. Under
present conditions, the weaker State teams
only get one game against the stronger adver-
sary against whom they are pitted, and then
have to head for home and mother. In a
series where each team is given a chance of
measuring strength with all and sundry,
players from such States as South Australia
and Queensland would get. a run for the
money they have expended in attending the
Cup tournaments.
The Nineteenth Hole
After a week of super-golf, in which he did
rounds of 70 and 09, the Victorian crack,
Ivo Whitton, won the final of the N.S.W.
amateur championship at Rose Bay from
Hector Morrison, another Victorian player,
but one long resident in Sydney. Neither
showed anything like the form of the pre-
vious rounds, Whitton’s putting, which had
bordered on the miraculous in the earlier
matches, going all to pieces. However, he
finished five up and three, his stroke round
being 81, against 83 by Morrison. There was
a strong cross wind during the morning
round, but even this hardly excused the
falling-away.
* * * *
“Brassey”: The Australian amateur and
professional golf championships will be held
in Adelaide during the last week in Angust.
The venue will be the Royal Adelaide course
at Seaton, and local golfers are already
fancying the chances of T. S. Cheadla, who
has won the State title oni several occasions,
for he is showing great form this season,
and will he on his home links for the big
events. The other day, he won the club
championship seven up on Leg'll Winser,
another State champion. Not much has been
heard of Rufus Stuart of late, but he and
Fergus Macmahon. of the Marino club, are
also expected to show- well in the open and
professional events.
“Dom Pedro”: Golfers who complain of
ball-thieving crows and other fercc natvra
should pay a visit to the links at Beira in
Portuguese East Africa. They are on flat
land traversed by tidal creeks, and are in-
fested with millions of burrowing land crabs.
By continual and strenuous efforts these are
kept oft' the fairways, but the task of shifting
them from the rough is hopeless. Any ball
that lands in the crab colony has an odds-
on chance of rolling down one of the innumer-
able holes. Indeed, there are golfers who
assert the crabs are on the alert for a
pulled or sliced ball and deliberately roll it
into a hole before the enraged owner can
get within cooee of it.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Cyril Tolley’s feat in
winning the British amateur championship
again after a lapse of nine years is an uncom-
mon one, though the famous Harold Hilton
once had a spell of 11 between two of his
four wins. Tolley is one of the curious per
sonalities of British golf, being probably the
most inconsistent of first-class players. A
tremendous driver, he is liable at any moment
to be seized with an attack of pulling or
slicing, and it is no unusual thing for him
to go round a course in the rough for
most of the time. It is more than likely
we will see him in Australia, with the
British team.
* * * *
“Duffer” : A few years ago an actor who
did anything but try to act -was a rarity.
Now the reverse is the case, and it is dif-
ficult to find a visiting star who does not
affect either the racecourse of the golf-
links. - In- this connection a yarn has been
going round lately about a leading man who
likes his golf almost as much as lie likes
himself and his acting. Before applying for
the job which is the reason for his, presence
in Australia, he asked an old friend who 'S
something of a theatrical potentate in Don-
don for a letter of recommendation. This
was given to him sealed, and the recipient,
after reading it, obligingly handed it back.
It concluded —the names of the parts are
altered to avoid identification —“He plays
Hamlet, Shylock, Wolsey, Macbeth and golf.
He plays golf best.”
* * * *
“Old Q.” : Queensland golf* has lost a rare
supporter by the appointment of E. 11-
Macartney to the State Agency-General m
London. One of the foundation members of
the Brisbane Golf Club, Macartney has been
its president for 27 years, wdiich must be
something of a record in this direction. The
busy solicitor and public man never had the
time to develop a plus game. What he
lacked in skill he made up by whole-hearted
devotion to the game and its interests.
* * * *
“The McHaggis”: Some enthusiast lias
been advocating that an Empire parliament
of golf should be established, and suggests
that the autocratic St. Andrews committee,
which governs the game, should be recast to
include delegates from all the Dominions. It
seems a bright idea, but drawbacks suggest
themselves. For instance, many delegates
might find it a hardship to have to learn
the Scottish, language, while those from such
far-flung outposts as India and Papua
would experience a difficulty in acquiring
the necessary taste for the national beverage
of Caledon.
* * * *
“Iloylake”: The putt is regarded by most
golfers as an invention of the Devil and one
of the chief drawbacks to the game. An
English expert has now belled the cat with
a demand that the value of the putt stroke
should be reduced by half. His claim is
that it is idiotic to give a six-inch stroke the
same value as one of 250 yards.
(Continued on next page.)


Ensure efficient running by fitting B.E.S.
SPARK PLUGS. A type for every car, truck,
tractor, cycle, aeroplane and marine engine.
Fully guaranteed. All garages. Price 4/6.
Manufactured by
Australian Spark Plugs Pty., Ltd.
562 Spencer Street, Melbourne, C.i.
’Phones: F 4947. F 6961.
w
LEIPZIG TRADE FAIR (Twice Yearly), GERMANY
Great International-Leipzig Industries Fair, AUTUMN, 1929.
Samples Pair and Engineering Fair and Building Fair August 25 to 31
Textile Fair August 25 to 28
Shoe and Leather Fair August 25 to 28
Subsequently another big Leipzig International Industries Fair will be held
in Spring, 1930, beginning on March 2, 1930. Letters of introduction and all
particulars gladly given.
LARS G. BRUNDAHL,
’Phones; 84006, MW2201. 6 DALLEY STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
POES
SAVE
PETROL
Wholesale Agents and Stockists:
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
284 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Car and Cycle
“Garry”: Ray Keech, America’s most
famous automobile racer, hasn’t lived long
to enjoy the honors Fate thrust upon him.
He came into world-wide prominence 15
months ago, when, piloting the most power-
ful motor-car ever built—lsoo li.p.—he beat
Malcolm Campbell’s record of 206.9 m.p.h.
by averaging 207.55 on Daytona Beach,
Florida. The car, an uncouth and crudely-
built affair, killed Lee Bible, its driver, and
a press photographer, and was wrecked in
an attempt to beat Segrave’s record of
231.36 m.p.h. Keech captured the great
annual race at Indianapolis last month, win-
ning a prizei of £20,000. and met his doom a
few days ago on the 11-mile wooden Altona
Speedway at Tipton. Penn. Posthumously
he was awarded the first prize in the race in
which lie was killed while speeding at 119
m.p.h.
“Tlianatos”: The death of Ray Keech calls
attention to the growing list of victims of
the speed mania. Keech is the third Ameri-
can casualty within the past two years.
Britain’s contribution to the list is Parry
Thomas, who was outed in Wales on the
l’endine Sands, while Keech, Lee Bible and
Frank Lockhart were all killed on Daytona
Reach. If Segrave and Malcolm Campbell
don’t take a tumble and swear off, it is pos-
sible that Britain’s score will equal
America’s in the deadly game one of these
days.
?{i * * *
“Der Jong” : If Malcolm Campbell failed
to disturb Segrave’s speed record in
his recent attempt on it in South Africa he
succeeded in putting up three new records.
These were 217.1 m.p.h. for a flying kilo-
metre, 215.9 m.p.h. for the five kilometres
and 211 m.p.h. for the five miles.
Jje i\t * *
“Whizz”: With the European motor- and
cycle-racing season in full blast, the usual
casualties are occurring among previous re-
cords. Two new sets of figures for a single-
handed 24-hour drive went up last week.
On the Sarthe-road circuit in France Captain
Woolf Barnato, w r ith mechanic Birkins, cov-
ered 1735 miles; on the Montlhery track Mrs.
Victor Bruce reeled off 2200 miles. French
drivers Marchand, Morel and Iviriloff have
done 2724 miles. In this case, however, the
three took turns at the wheel. Both Barnato
and Mrs. Bruce drove Bentley cars.
& * * *
“0.H.V.”: Last year’s winner, C. J.
Dodson, of Manchester, repeated his success
in the Senior Tourist Trophy motor-cycle
race on the Isle of Man. The race dates
back, as an annual event, to 1911, but from
1915 to 1919 it was dropped owing to there
being more serious business abroad. It’s
for machines of 500-c.c. cylinder capacity,
the most popular English touring type; and
the average speeds recorded over the well-
diversified course have risen from 47.6 m.p.h.
to 72.05 m.p.h. Dodson rode a Sunbeam. Alec
Bennett, winner of last year’s Junior T.T.
and of the Senior T.T.’s of 1922 and 1924,
came second, also on a Sunbeam, smin.
12sec. behind Dodson, whose time for the
264 miles was 31ir. 29min. 49sec. The
weather was fine and road conditions favor-
able. Hicks, the winner of the Junior T.T..
beat W. L. Handley, an A.J.S. rider, who
won the Light-weight T.T. in 1922 and 1923,
on an 0.K., by only 34sec. in the most closely
contested race for 350-c.c. machines the Isle
has ever seen. Dodson ran fourth. In this
year’s light-weight section, T. Crabtree, a
young rider of little experience, on an Excel-
sior, was the winner, in record time.
* * * *
“Hotham”: There was great excitement
among Melbourne cyclists when Hubert
Opperman, after two years’ absence from
road-racing, turned out in the 33 miles
“Navy” event at North Essendon. Another
competitor was E. Bambridge, one of Opper-
man’s partners in the Tour de France race
in Europe last year. Opperman, starting off
scratch, was oply out for a training ride, and
finished about half-way down the field. The
event w r as won by J. Chiron, of Hawthorn,
who had a start of Bmin. 45sec.
f
Miscellaneous
South Africa made a creditable draw with
England in the opening Test at Birmingham.
Scoring 250 in the first knock, S.A. led, the
home side by five runs. England closed its
second innings on the third day when four
had gone for 308, Sutcliffe (114) and Ham-
mond (138 n. 0.) making a capital stand.
South Africa had lost 1 for 171 at stumps.
Fast-bowler Ochse did well for the visitors,
while R. H. Catterall registered a fine batting
double with 67 and 98. He scored a century
against England on the same ground in
1.924, and is evidently as good as ever.
Another good, if dreary, exhibition was
Bruce Mitchell’s 88 and 61 not out. Play
on both sides was deadly slow. The Tests
will be three-day affairs, with four days for
the last if the rubber is in doubt.
“Lansdowne”: Killick, who opened for
England with Sutcliffe in the first Test
against S’Africa, is only 22, and has come
to the front almost as rapidly as Hammond.
Yet few as are his cricketing years, he has
had one lean one. Going up to Cambridge
with a high reputation from St. Paul’s
School, London, he failed to get his blue in
his freshman’s year (1927), and, thougn he
was tried for Middlesex, Wisden described
him as disappointing. Since then he has
established himself as one of England’s lead-
ing batsmen and most prolific run-getters.
Duleepsinjhi, another Cambridge blue who
appeared in the Birmingham match, is 24.
He plays for Sussex nowadays, like his uncle
the famous Ranji.
# * * *
“S.J.W.”: The Middlesex amateur G. O.
Allen, who took all 10 wickets against Lan-
cashire and whom the cables refer to as “a
New Zealander,”- is a Sydneyite on both
sides. Ills father, Walter Allen, is a brother
of the A.J.C. committeeman who won the
June Handicap at Rosehill with Wedding
Eve, and his mother is a cousin of Ernest
Lamb, K.C., counsel for the A.J.C. Young
Allen, who is a London stockbroker, just
missed a place in the England team against
his fellow-countrymen in 1926. His fielding
is not of the best, and he is unwilling to
give overmuch time to cricket from his
business.
sj: * :Jt Ht
“Backwoodsman”: Australian bowling
circles arc excited at the prospect of a visit
from a Canadian team next, season. The
Canucks will leave Vancouver in Decem-
ber next and come on to Australia after a
month in Maoriland. Little is known of Can-
adian form on this side of the Pacific, but
bearing in mind that prohibition was in force
-in that country for some-years until re-
cently, doubts are being expressed as to
whether the tourists will have had time to
get into true bowling form.
❖ ❖ * #
“The Gaffer”: That outstanding example
of American humor the race across America
from New York to Los Angeles is over for
this year. The winning of the 3450 miles
go-as-you-please was one, Johnny Salo. His
time for the run was not cabled, but he
beat another American citizen named
Gavuzzi by a bare 3min. 59sec., so it must
have been an exciting finish. Possibly Johnny
had the fastest motor-car at his disposal.
:'i! S:
“Queen’s Club”: Badminton may have
originated in India (B. 19/6/’29), but it
was familiar in England long before 1873,
as many books on games published before
that date can testify. The chief implements
of the game, the battledore and shuttlecock,
were familiar in the “best circles” of France,
Spain and England as far back as the six-
teenth century, and they appear in more than
one portrait of children painted in those days.
The game, played over a high net, is a
first-class wet-weather amusement, for any
CHARLIE SONTAG, the giant ML.
forward, who plays lock in the All
Blacks R.U. side now in Australia.
spacious hall or room can be utilised as a
court. The W. G. Grace of the sport is
J. F. Devlin, an Irish player who hasn’t
been beaten in the championships for years.
* * * *
“Shamateur”: Weissmuller, holder of
nearly every amateur world’s swimming
record over the sprint and middle distances,
is now after professional records, and has
started off with a SOsec. swim for the 100,
or 2sec. better than his ifmateur figures. As
professional times are far behind those put
up by amateurs in most instances, Weiss-
muller’s self-imposed job should be an easy
one.
* * * *
“Ride Off”: The N.S.W. polo meeting,
Regius in Sydnev this week, ends on
~ „ _ 7 „ ~ ~
"' hea the baal of the C "? WI . U
bo played. There are no teams from Victoria
°, r *>outh Australia, a Queensland side F rom
the Darling Downs being the only competitor
from outside the State. As it costs something
i lke £lOOO to bring an inter-State team and
*ts mounts across, the lack of outside en-
thusiasm is understandable. The Austnu-
asian Gold Cup, won from South Australia
l ast J /; ar b - v Garden, will also be f°ug -
for. Goulburn, which won the Dudley Cup
from Harden, is keen on adding the other
W. COOK, the N.S.W. jockey, who has
enjoyed a remarkably successful trot
in Sydney racing this season.
mug to its collection. Playing with Goulburn
will be Curtis Skene, not long returned from
his visit to California with an Australian-
Hawaiian side The Americans rate him
high, giving him the status of an eight-goal
player—one held by only 23 other players in
the wprld. His form in comparison with
his stay-at-home confreres will be keenly
watched.
* * * *
“Q.M.1.”: A statement in the Sydney
press that a team from Bangkok, in Siam,
would compete in the N.S.W. Dudley Cun
polo tourney, purchasing their ponies on
arrival in Australia, induces me to think that
the visitors, if they do come to light, would
have made a bigger hit by utilising the ponies
of the land they hail from. The Siamese pony
is more like a large yellow dog than any-
thing else, but is wonderfully tough and
plucky for his size, though his pace is
nothing much to boast about. Australians
first met the breed in the Boer War, when a
contingent of regular M.I. drawn from Brit-
ish regiments garrisoning the East was
sent over mounted on the sturdy little chaps.
Most of the riders could mount and dismount
without the formality of putting the foot in
the stirrup, a great advantage to a mounted
infantryman. The ponies outlasted many
more pretentious breeds, the fact that they
could live on almost anything being also
in their favor.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: Another picturesque old sport
has had to give way to the spread of humani-
tarianism. Bull-fighting, by the Sultan’s
edict, is no longer legal in Kelantan, British
Malaya. The Malayan variant of the sport
was quite different ; from the Spanish. The
average lymphatic indigene has no love for
risking his own skin. He prefers his deeds
of derring-do done by others. The bulls were
prepared for months beforehand, their final
massaging, oiling and decorating being a very
elaborate business. Then they were let loose
on each other in a strongly-fenced arena.
Then began a long, deliberate struggle for
survival that resembled a contest between
two hydraulic engines. Their heads glued
together, they exerted all their pressure, and
as one began to slacken the enormous flat
horn of the other would slowly turn inwards
towards its neck. The blunt end could cause
a tremendous wound, but usually the weaker
vessel would acknowledge defeat by backing
suddenly, turning tail and bolting. Nothing
would induce him ever to face that opponent
again, so punters at least had the satis-
faction of knowing where not to place
their money next time. Arguments for and
against the retention are familiar to all
Australians. One side said that it promoted
a gambling spirit that was ruining the
country. The other said that it helped to
improve the breed of cattle!
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Stellsby”: A Ma State coal stoppage has
no terrors for Victoria’s mosquito fleet. The
Casino, which, trades between Melbourne and
Western District ports, now burns Yallourn
briquettes, and other steamers are to follow
suit. Incidentally, Melbourne bakers use the
brown-coal blocks extensively, and the
quality of the bread has improved. Vic-
torians have much to thank .John Monash
for, although the stunt press a few years ago
was full of warnings that the Yallourn ven-
ture would crash.
* * * *
“Kopai”: The activities of service firms
are increasing in Sydney. One concern will
(.'quip your office with and maintain a supply
of soap, towels, clothes- and hair-brushes
and combs; a. wooden cabinet to match office
fittings goes with the outfit. Another sup-
plies white coats to barbers, provision hands,
waiters and the like; another, napcry for
restaurants. The coat service includes seven
per man, all made to measure, rotated and
laundered like the towels.
* * * *
“Bestjes” : Something new in the world's
meat trade is the arrival of livestock from
S. Africa on the British market, a shipment
of 620 steers from Capetown. For years
North America has practically had a mono-
poly of this branch of the trade. The North
Atlantic trip lasts only 10 days or so: a
cattle steamer from Capetown would take
twice as long. The cattle in this shipment
travelled 1000 miles by rail before being
embarked.
* * *
“Up Top”: The big engineering feat of
lifting the Victoria bridge for the removal
and repair of rollers has gone practically
unnoticed in Australia; in fact, compara-
tively few Brisbane people even know that
the City Council has completed the contract.
America is more observant; engineer Gil-
christ has been asked by the publishers, of
Engineering and Contracting for permis-
sion to reproduce plans and photos. The
drawings for the lifting apparatus were the
production of W. J. Doak; the steelwork fab-
rication was done by Harveys. The job
was an unusual and ii very big one, but as
neither girls in bathing-costumes nor moving-
picture magnates nor the razor gang had
anything to do with if the stunt press
ignored it.
* * $
“Hayband”: Some astonishing rabbit
statistics were contained in a paper read
before the Vic. Institute of Refrigeration.
In that State last year 140,000,000 rabbits,
totalling 155,682 tons, were handled, the
value of the output being £4,455,000. Freight
paid to the railways amounted to £49.259;
to overseas shipping concerns, £200,690. That
Bunny is a pest doesn’t admit of argument,
but the figures aren’t all one way.
* # * :J:
“Lambton”: Wholesale tobacconists have
won the first round of the Newcastle
tobacco fight (B. 19/6/’29). An ulti-
matum has gone forth that supplies will be
refused to cash-and-carry concerns unless
they sign an agreement to observe the trade
price-list. Local hairdressers and tobacco-
nists expect a counter-move, despite the
backing of the wholesalers.
❖ ❖ :j:
“Bert the Carpenter” : No country in the
world has wasted beautiful cabinetwood like
Australia. I’ve worked up all the world’s
most highly-prized cabinet timbers in my
time. For sheer beauty I range them as
follows: (1) San Domingo mahogany, (2)
figured Aussie blackwood, (3) Circassian
walnut, (4) selected figured Queensland
maple; and for beauty combined with light-
ness, strength and durability, Australia has
a world’s best furniture timber in red cedar.
But while the foreign timbers mentioned are
eagerly sought and highly prized, Australia
has never rated her own products at their
proper value.
* $ * *
“F.0.M.”: One grave aspect of our un-
employment problem is the persistent com-
petition of young married women in ian
already overcrowded labor field. Simply
stated, it has become a matter of a man
employing his wife to procure the luxuries
while he supplies the necessities. Beside
being an industrial question, it is a con-
travention of the natural law of mateship.
Undoubtedly there are cases in which, through
illness, or over-long unemployment of the
breadwinner, woman is forced to seek employ-
ment outside her home. This makes it a
more complex question, but.it in no way pre-
cludes those in authority from action. No
person should be restricted from an indi-
vidual endeavor to earn the maximum, but
at times when jobs are scarce this method
is next door to a grab at the bread from
the other girl’s mouth.


I 11.
tl/l
'Jll
IS
I IJ
W4T
;-srT;*rtgjfc>*3
'. w
r-,.-
LI
-U!
ill I ./■>.
: I
I* I
ms
'h
Jt'jl V /[
JfwM
I
»
a-
- - r
%2
m&i
w
rm
Jll
m
~a
Ijllll
-JM
2<nsi
~er^r
sA-.'S
*
.* i
iv.
A
XI - * »
cysM****
■' _ jp ——iff
-5k
KP
, ' »!i 0
Uhl
P*
? -
aiiiihi,
Sr itfiLi^
M
■-
m
■r\ ./
•SSWSV"*
N
X-:-
vStX
as
SS
•C:/f
&
-K
SX T*
X \
V
vXS
ss
?!%SP
Hh
N
i
•V*
‘y^yaar;
c
>■
D
c
r*
O
&
JC*
&
65)
c
CL
EM
S'
5
750 -Ton Presses, maintain-
ing accuracy to 1/10,000 of
an inch, form the faultless steel
panels of a Holden Body.
Thus the most advanced
methods known to science
produce a graceful contour,
faultless mouldings and smooth-
ness of surface.
Perfect panels provide a solid
foundation for the durable
lacquer, ensuring the permanent
lustre of a Holden Body.
V rii will recognise a Holden Body by its
Superiority due to the adoption of World
Quality Methods.
The emblem of world
quality in motor bodies
HOLDEN’S
MOTOR, BODY BUILDERS
L. I yVV 1 T E: D
ADELAIDE, MELBOURNE, SYDNEY AND BRISBANE


Under
Royal
Warrant
w
To H.M.
Kino
George V
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE (
MesMieck
Mime
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company umi tad
SVONEY
'larlfslleidsiec>
Reims
'9*imarg!r
PELLISSQiM
Cognac Brandy.
lO YE. xr*.«s; OI.D.
Asistralu'oß Asrer. IB-
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Headquarters during Polo Season
The Wentworth is one of the most luxurious places in Sydney
at which to stay. During Polo season noted Polo enthusiasts
select the Wentworth because of its appointments and service.
Many of the bedrooms have their own bathrooms. All have
hot and cold water; also telephones. All are steam-heated
by a central heating system. The Wentworth is close to all
Stores, Banks and Theatres. Write direct to Mrs. Maclurcan,
Director, for reservations or other information.
S fie WENTWORTH
AUSTRALIA’S HOTEL DE LUXE,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
92Macleay St.
Limited
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT
(Located within the City Boundary 3 seven
minutes from G.P.0.)
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 150 Rooms, is now open and
features Two-, Three- and Four-
room Suites, each with Bath; also
Single and Double Rooms. Central
Heating, Running Water and
’Phones installed in each room.
Unsurpassed Harbor Views.
Weekly inclusive tariff,
from £5/5/-
Daily, from £1
Telephone: F 2 16 1 (8 lines) ; Tele-
graphic address: “Fifmac,” Syd-
ney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
St. John's within the Uni. is a hand-
some building. Once a year, at any rate,
it displays its mellow panelling, its wide
shallow stairway and Gothic arches to the
dancing world of Sydney, or as many of
them as are lucky enough to have a present
student for a friend or an old student for
a husband. Last week about 300 were there
to enjoy the noted hospitality of the college.
The orange glow of poppies and the paler
hres of daffodil and of jonquil burned against
the golden woodwork of the high hall, the
library, and the cloisters where supper was
served. The yellow blooms and the green of
trailing shoots were the dominant notes in
the decorations and eresccndoed to the golden
eagle of St. John, which proudly topped
the green and gold of the college banner.
The essential feminine in the reception act
was gracefully supplied by Mrs. Walter Bur-
titt, who was supported by the acting-
rector of the college, Padre Paul Cullen, and
house-president H. F. Benning. Andrew’s
and Paul’s and Wesley seht their represen-
tatives, as did the Women’s College and
Sancta Sophia.
St. Paul’s epistle to the jazzonians brought
400 ardent disciples to a night’s ceremonial
within the hoary old Uni. college. Not only
within but without, for in accordance with
precedent a canvas ballroom was erected in
the college grounds. Here a specially-laid-
down floor, a canopy of maroon and gold
streamers, and great mirrors which at every
corner reflected the kaleidoscope of gay frocks
and shoes contributed to the brightness for
which Paul’s dances are noted. Canon Garu-
sey and his lady did the honors, she in georg-
ettes that displayed a design in sumptuous
blue and gold. Representatives from the
other colleges within the Uni. shared in the
night’s amenities. Elaine de Chair was
among the young dancers, and senior-student
M. M. Ramsden and a committee which in-
cluded T. G. Vincent, W. I). McMahon, A. S.
Albert and N. Cay helped to receive the
guests.
The old boys of St. Ignatius’ rallied at the
Ambassadors midway through last week, and
the result of the roll call will buy material
for present lads of Riverview to* scoop up
river headships and such-like distinctions.
President of the union J. Boylan, helped by
Mrs. Boylan, did the honors at a table
banked with red roses. Here were the envoys
from the city’s big public schools. W. B.
Williamson was the secretary and K. C.
Young the treasurer of the dance committee.
“On June 21, at Lisgar, Concord, Sylvina
Green, aged 81 years.” That Lisgar may
revive memories among some of the Oldest
Inhabitants. Forty years ago Lisgar was
a sort of private club in Bligh-street, of
which Critchett Walker, Principal Under-
secretary in days when the Principal Under-
Sec. was a potentate, was the star member ;
and the Misses Green —Miss Sylvina the
youngest of them—were the proprietresses.
Their father, of the 3rd Buffs, a Queen’s Own
regiment that came to Australia in Governor
Darling’s time (1820-27). married the daugh-
ter of a soldier of the 102nd, and she was
born in Parramatta. Richard Green settled
on a farm at Dundas, near by, and there
brought up a family of nine tall, handsome
daughters. Most of them lived to an old
age—very stately survivals of the early-
Victorian period of which “The Quarter-
master” has been telling us. Rock Farm,
on which. this remarkable family of girls
grew up, is still in possession of a member
of the family.
Tennis-player Daphne Akhurst has pro-
mised her heart and hand and a joint owner-
ship of her trophies to Ray F. Cozens, of
Strathfield. The comely Daphne teaches
music at Normanhurst, the well-known Ash-
field girls’ school; and Ray Cozens is in
W., D. and H. O. Wills’s, of which his
father is a director. The two have known
each other since childhood.
_ Just as this Letter wraps itself in its
pink comforter the cognoscenti are cluster-
ing about the pens at the Sheep Show. Even
if wool isn’t quite the golden fleece it was,
and should be again, the Show brings pas-
toralists and their families from far and
wide. After the sheep, the polo pony prances
in, and the Dudley Cup - will keep con-
testants and their supporters busy for a week
to come. Society is emerging from its winter
apathy and staging quite a few events for the
amusement of country cousin. A ball at the
Rose Bay golf club will be presented in a
color scheme of red and yellow roses. These
will appear in garlands, and also as growing
and th.ckly-flowered tress. The coming-out
ball for Diana, daughter of the Brigadier-
General Herrings, will also be at the Rose
Bay golf club. In addition there’s a ball
engineered by Mrs. Colin Stephen on the
cards; there are the Extra Chukka Bail
for the Country Women’s Association, and
the Flying Doctor Ball for the A.1.M..
and the R.S.P.C.A. Ball. Last and far from
least there’s the Journalists’ Ball on Satur-
day night at the Wentworth.
I’d almost forgotten one other ball at the
Rose Bay golf club. Nine of our very best
matrons think it only right that something
in honor of the Navy should be slipped into
the carnival calendar, and they are joint
hostesses of the frivol.
Mr. S. S. Cohen, president of the Kinder-
garten Union, was in the chair at the K.U.
rooms last week, when the plans prepareu by
architect IT. E. White for the Frank 11.
Saywell Kindergarten at Moore Park were
considered. Following Mr. Saywell’s offer
of £lOOO towards the building, the Civic
Commissioners granted £5OO, and Mr. Sam
Walder added £250. Mrs. Sam Walder is
the energetic president of the committee.
The present building has for a long time
been totally inadequate, but with the new
building the Work will be extended and many
more children accommodated.
The Story of how 800 played bridge in the
interests of St. Luke’s will doubtless he in-
. scribed in the annals of that hospital’s Dar-
ling Point, Woollahra, centre. Over £4OO
was raised, and this will help with the
X-ray plant. Farmer’s gave the rooms
and the supper; every square inch of
the dining-rooms ftnd Exhibition Hall carried
a card table. Judge liaise Rogers’s wife,
very smart in gold lam 6 and chiffons, was
the president of the affair, and a bunch of
attractive girls pressed cigarettes and sweets,
at a price, on the players. Secretary Mrs.
John Ruthven wore black lace; treasurer
M”s. D. Sullivan kept the bank in cloud-pink
chiffons.
In St. Philip’s one moonlit night last; week
Sylvia Henderson, only daughter of the H.
A. Hendersons of Vaucluse, became Mrs.
Edgar FritsChy of Berne, Switzerland. The
bride wore over her ivory velvets a flowing
pink tulle veil, and the pretty combination
was supported by the apricot georgettes worn
by maid Doris Jacks. Mr. Henderson armed
his daughter up the aisle, and Mrs. Hender-
son took over responsibilities in the Blue
Room of the Wentworth.
Last week Gwen Park, eldest daughter of
the G. G. Parks, of Airlie, Bendemeer, and
grand-niece of John Robertson, a sometime
N.S.W. Premier, met Gerald Edward Suttor
at ,St. Philip’s matrimonially. Her ivory
velvet and silver laces were followed by sis-
ters Mavis and Betty and ’groom’s cousin
Judy Buckley, shod in green velvet and wear-
ing old-world frocks of pink ring velvet arid
georgette topped by large green hats. Two
tiny trainbearers, Joan Park and Dorothy
Harding, fluttered Kate Greenaway frocks
of pink net in the procession. The bride-
groom, who is a son of the late Mr. and Mrs.
Fred Suttor. of Cultowa, Wilcannia, had
Laurie Rankin and Scott Cobb to cheer him
on. Later the Wentworth spread dinner for
100 guests.
The subject of this New Talma picture
is the helpmate of Kelso King, the Mercan-
tile Mutual’s
much-esteemed
and newly-
knighted chief.
Their Wool-
lahra home,
Quambi, has
long been
noted for its
h o s p i tality.
The lady’s in-
terest in the
city’s charities
is as wide-
spread as that
of her hus-
band, and
what he has
done in ex-
ample, precept
ali (j enthusi-
asm for the
Boy Scout
movement his
wife has done
for the Girl
Guides.
Last week the girls and boys of over 100
insurance companies did their bit to help
the institutions for the Deaf and Dumb and
the Rlind children. The ball w-as at
the Moore Park Palais, and the' pro-
moters turned out in force. Youth, wrapped
in tissuey layers of w-hite and silver, was
typified by eight rosy “comers-out.” They
made their curtsey to vice-royalty under the
guidance of Mrs T. S. Douglas, and both the
Governor and his lady w-ere present to give
them a welcome.'into the grow-n-up world.
Lady de Chair wore black velvet sown with
gold sequins, and carried red roses. In the
party w-ere the Civic Commissioner Garlicks,
Minister for Education Drummond and his
lady, Dr. T. Storrie Dixon, who is president
of the institution, and dainty Noreen Wor-
rall, wrapped in ivory and gold lace. Com-
mittee girls who helped with the success were
secretary Miss M. Dansey and Miss E. Pig-
gott, and the Misses O’Dowd. Nell Moore
and E. Kane.
Zita Harris, the girl in this picture, is
permanently attached to “The Vagabonds,”
that group of amateurs w-hich every few
months helps various Sydney charities to
raise some
urgently-
neided cheque.
On July 17
and the three
sue c e e d i n g
nights the
Vags. are pro-
ducing Eric
Hudson’s “Un-
fair Sex” at
their old stand,
S t. James’s
Hall, in Phil-
lip-street. Zita
plays the part
of Joan, a
modern flap-
per, and should
do well with
it, for the
clever young
thing merely
has to be her-
self. The final
night of the season, as always, the good-
hearted players are reserving for some pro-
tegee of their own. The two lads whom
they have placed'on the road to health and
the learning of a trade need the Vags.’ help
no longer, so their share of the proceeds on
this occasion will go towards ehabling a
little crjppled girl to walk upright. Dr. Her/,,
to whom they introduced the case, generoUslv
offend his services free, but hospital fees
and holiday expenses come out of the players'
purse. So remember the 20th of July.
While the open areas of the great shops
are crowded with the reduced tweeds and
woollies of the winter Sale, the inner rooms
are already carpeted With the hastily throWn-
off tissues of the spring hats ahd frocks.
This Letter had a bird’s-eye view of the
Spring goods last week. Everywhere was
yellow. Into hats, dresses, undies and scarf
(that’s to be with us always) the jpcUnd
color stravs. Spots, large and small, break
out on silk and -cotton. Every dress is to
have its coat, and these are to be as gay
as you please. The kilt will sweep at least
one inch nearer the ground, and the frock
will have its fulness about the knees, other-
wise being rather close-fitting. Geranium-
reds and blue in its frailest hues appear in
the best models. Hat-brims are decidedly
deeper at the backin fact, they follow-
the sou’-wester lines somewhat. One neat
little model of black felt and Baku cut quite
off the face had a snugly-fitting pleated
neckpiece, described as a fan tail back. A
navy blue ballibuntal, its drooping brim
lined for an inch or so with misty beige
and blue-dotted band of crgpe de Chine, had
a shallow crown and a dip over the right
ear. Crowns are to be shallow- and close-
fitting. and the best straws are Baku (of the
linen type), ballibuntal and pedal. There’s
a neW one that sounds like mafmite, but
that’s a sandwich-filling, arid this Letter
would hate to suggest that any head of its
acquaintance needed a filling. Three models
marked for home consumption were a cUr-
rant-red ballibuntal, shallow as to crown
and coalscuttle as to brim, its only trim-
ming a tiny fan of its own straw towards
the left side; a bark-broWn linen Baku,
higher in the crown and small in the brim,
and trimmed with two rows of velvet the
shade of a golden plum, the same being
finished off in front in a bow wherein lay
all the coquetry of the world ; and a natural
Baku inclined to floppiness, whose edge wore
a lattice design of palest green. Black
hats, of course, are legion, all having a
highly-varnished appearance.
At the Golden Helmet Ball, which is the
last rocket in the Firemen’s display for Syd-
ney hospitals, the crowning of the Fire
Queen will be the great eVent of the even-
ing. Nothing less than the Town Hall could
frame such a function, which takes place
to-night (the 26th). Mrs. A. B. Sutherland
will be escorted to the dais by the i 4 com-
peting queens; under the direction of Jose-
phine Marks the others W-ill group them-
selves as ladies-in-waiting, after which “The
Archbishon of Canterbury” (Mr. W. H.
Beare) will crown the Queen. The coro-
nation tableau will be set in a frame of
stalwart firemen, brass-hatted and -banded.
And that w-ill give the chandeliers some-
thing worth blazing down on.
At the Lyceum Club the other night,
against a rather trying back-
ground, Ethclwyn Kirk, Winifred Jenner.
Yvonne Despres and Rowell Bryden lived
through what might be termed a domestic
scene of the early ’fifties. The three ladies
were introduced in the large swaying crino-
lines of the period, Emily (Ethclwyn Ivirk)
in palest of blues as befitted a young miss,
Winifred Jenner (Mrs. Brandon) in black
moires, and Mrs. Despres de
Paris) in buoyant and jocund yellows. They
pass the evening in gentle conversation, diver-
sified by songs to the thin sweetness of the
spinet. Yvonne Despres and Winifred
Jenner sing old English, French and Italian
ditties; then enters the son of the house,
who exhibits a fine tenor in such delicious
old numbers as “Drink to Me Only with
Thine Eyes.’’ The whole closes with some
finely harmonised singing. The arrangement
of the songs and the connecting dialogue
were the work of Dora Wilcox. The musical
interlude will be produced at the Turret
Theatre.
Back in Sydney are the wife and daugh-
ter of William Manning, sometime member
of Parliament. Mayor of Sydney (for five
successive years in the ’nineties) and trustee
for the Australian investments made by the
late Lord Rosebery when he visited this out-
post of Empiali. The lady, who has returned
to visit her K.C. son and other near relatives,
remembers a Town Hall where the entertain-
ments were very sumptuous compared with
the few-and-far-between tea drinkings of the
present era. Those were days when the
local Guildhall was converted by Sale and
Dare, florists, into a bushland scene for ball-
room purposes, or into a garden where roses
and tender lights played havoc with sus-
ceptible emotions, and Governors related to
half the British peerage were gracious on
an acre or so of ruby carpet. To these
crushes came the youth and beauty and
fasliioh of the city. The suppers were of tre-
mendous importance. Champagne flowed in
profusion ; and Baumann, the great caterer
of his day, provided innumerable delicacies
in the way of pastries and sweets to follow
the fatted turkey. The Mayoress had five
drawing-rootns for her suite, and scarcely a
week in the season passed without all or
some of them being thrown open for some
festivity.
Nowadays the lady and her daughter,
Edith Manning, spend their lives between
their hofise in Mount-street, London, and
visits to the Continent, or to that Lincoln-
shire brother, Frederick Manning, author of
“Scenes and Portraits” and a book of notable
war verse published by the house of Mur-
ray. William Manning was president of
Sydney’s Philharmonic Society for 25 years.
His daughter knows all the opera-houses
and stars of Europe. At La Scala she heard
Toti dal Monte under the direction of Tos-
canini, who helps the people of Milan to
spoil the plump little singer. It was at one
of Toti’s performances that D’Annunzio
arrived one evening. Instantly the house
was tense with excitement. But so great is
the power of Toscanini that one turn
of the distinguished hand, one look from his
piercing eyes, and the house gulped back its
boisterous welcome to a national hero. The
Australian heard Jeritza, who catne from
New York to Vienna on the opening night
of the new Strauss opera “Egyptian Helen.”
Strauss, short, fat and florid, a great con-
trast to the graceful Toscanini, conducted
his work, which has captured the fancy of
Berlin, Paris and London.
May Henry, of the blue eyes and fair hair,
is whirling around Paris and London with
the eyes Very wide open and the brain be-
hind them busy making notes. May, who
is accompanied by sister Mrs. Eric Boyd, of
the Malay States, says that the Continental
dancing partner is the quicker mover but the
Englishman has the better style, and that
the stamp of London is still required to
bring a new step into vogue. This doesn’t
apply to the tango, which all English people
dance indifferently. German girls are easily
the smartest in all cafes. They have laid
the ghost of the fat frau who supplied the
pre-war humorists with material for pens
and pencils. The travelled fraulein , at all
events, is a slim, exotic creature in amazing
clothes. Dogs of the small variety go every-
where. They lunch and dine in cafes, and
the Australian girl saw a nifty little fellow
walking the Bois in a fine buff coat with a
smart pocket, from which a rnonogrammed
hankie peeped. These pets are taken by
their owners to the cinema, and at the last
fade-out the house is filled with the yaps
and snarls and barks of the suddenly-awak-
ened canines. At Geneva the twin sisters
were the guests of Charlie (Dick) Ellis, who
was rejected for the A.I.F. owing to a short-
age of one inch in statufe, wherefore he went
to England and joined up. Now he is estab-
lished within a stone’s-throw of the League
of Nations’ headquarters, and writes infor-
matively on its origin, structure and work-
ing. He has a Russian wife and a six-yqar-
old son, who already speaks four languages.
A recital of ultra-modern music in Paris
seemed to the Sydney girl “like a woman
trying to make up her mind.” At the
Folies Bergeres, May saw two pretty
women, Mrs. McKelvey, of Sydney, with her
surgeon husband, and June, former revue
artist and dancer, now the wife of Lord
Inverclyde.


0
b
S
\
7//'
w
7
K
r
\
jfcj
Ol'K
GUAKANTHE
This ifui'iuciit
uuarunteeil l>erl»
manufueturo. Kxamine
tlu.rouKlily !‘, e ! ?, r *
washing anil it *»«•*
live return to store
Iron) which it was
pur. laseil within
7 ilny*.
Geo. A. I Joint *
Co. Mil.
And now comes
Su per Hay on
vv it b a full
guarantee
The Quality Lingers On.
After all is said and done, the
quality in “Charm” lingers on.
Delicate shadings and exquisite
beauty are indeed synonymous
with this enticing Lingerie.
After “Charm” has been worn
for months. .... .the quality
lingers on! And then comes
the irresistible desire to buy
again “Still more of these deli-
cate, dainty garments.”
RAYON UNDERWEAR
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY THE EMPLOYEES OF
GEO. A. BOND & CO., LTD. (In Liq.).


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for T?oon. Only. European Plan.
Pining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FTRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
fi
m
Him
Address Manager—
llOWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
22.
LOOKING AHEAD
Just looking ahead is easy.
There is always inspiration in contemplation of the future,
for the least imaginative can dream.
It is the planning and the doing that demand sincerity
of purpose and practical application.
Do your planning with a Savings Account—-make your
idle money work and earn for you, not only the benefit of
money saved, but the profit of interest earned.
A Commonwealth Savings Account will do that.
Commonwealtb Savings Bank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
Monday to Friday—
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
From 7.30. Minimum Charge, 10/-
Saturday, Late Gala Night.
Special Table d’HOte Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
From 10 o’clock, Special Supper 12/6; or
a la carte, minimum, 12/6
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 to 6, 4/-. Parties of six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
The Ambassadors New Delightful
Dance Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and Rhythm that makes dancing an
effortless pleasure.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone; M 4131.
Molbourne
Chatter
Sales offer so mucii temptation these days
that the only way to save the rainy-day
fund is to avoid Collins and Bourke streets.
Both day and evening frocks have flopped in
many cases to much less than half their
former price, and there are stories flying
about that in some of the departments sacred
to imported models customers have been
invited to name their own price, which has
been accepted without demur. Cloth and
tweed coats of this season’s fashion, with
fur collars and cuffs, are remarkably re-
duced. The orgy of price-cutting has svVept
through every section of most emporiums, the
only things that have maintained their prices
being warm undergarments.
Thirteen debs, arrayed in white made their
social plunge at the annual dance of the Old
Collegians’ Club of the Methodist Ladies’
College. The setting was a roseate glow that
graduated from a whisper of pink to red.
Blooms of the same hues blended in the dobs.’
posies. Mrs. J. O. Thompson, whose black
velvet and lace was contrasted with red satin
slippers, and Miss A. Leith, whose black
lace draperies covered flesh-tinted georgette,
were joint hon. secs, of the pleasant hop.
Mrs. Grove, wife of the principal of the
M.L.C., carried a bouquet of American
Beauty roses against a gown of black velvet
hnd lace.
Another ex-students’ dance the same even-
ing was that of Cromarty at Ormond Hall.
Chief managers were Miss D. E. Cross, hon.
sec., who danced in black net, and Zara
Weinheim, hon. treas., who also chose black.
Trinity College hung out its colors at St.
Kilda Town Hall for its annual dance of
past and present students. Bishop Stephen,
who is locum during the absence of the
warden, Dr. Behan, welcomed the guests with
Mrs. Stephen, she wearing raiment of black
lace. The master of Queen’s, Rev. F. W.
Iverneck, and his wife; liev. Father Murphy,
of Newman; and the registrar, J. Bain-
bridge, were among the special guests. Janet
Clarke Hall was represented by the prin-
cipal, Enid Joske, who cheered a black gown
with dull-green embroidery. It was mainly
a younger-set affair.
The Heath had one of its unlucky days
on Saturday, accidents and weather marring
what promised to be a good meeting of the
V.A.T.C. Keen, crisp air with sunshine
made the earlier part of the day pleasant,
but towards three o’clock a cutting wind
brought squalls of driving rain. Two horses
had been killed and a third had died off
the course previously, so the atmosphere was
rather depressing. There was a big attend-
ance, headed by the Governor-General.
Priminister Bruce was there with Mrs.
Bruce, she having a black coat with squirrel-
fUr collar over a sports suit in grey and bin }.
tones, topped by a small felt and velvet hat.
Mrs. Bruce’s sister, Mrs. R. A. D. Hood, also
’watched the racing. Mayoress Luxton joined
the throng wrapped in black cloth and fur
additions. Mrs. Herbert Lillies’s heather-
tweed suit had a skirt that featured a series
of deep pleats across the front panel. Mrs.
Sol Green’s dark-brown mink coat was
admired by all. Mr. Don Swanson brought
his daughter, in blue of the hue of the laun-
dry knob. Mrs. H. S. K. Ward, Mrs. T. A.
Tabart, Mrs. W. Rogers Thomson, accom-
panied by one of the Van Cooth girls; Mrs.
L. Finn, in a coat of black sealskin; and
Mrs. Richard Linton, who drew about her
a cape of kolinsky fringed with many tails,
were in the crowd. Mrs. Bruce was guest
of the committee's womenfolk at luncheon,
others round the board being Mrs. Ben Chaf-
fey, Mrs. E. M. Pearce, sporting a squirrel
coat, and Mrs. Merson Cooper.
The mixed sale at Decoration’s by order of
the State Government of the left-over house-
hold effects of State Governors, the accumu-
lations of many years, was an intriguing
affair. Some of our v.-r. folk appear to have
been very forgetful. For instance; a trio
of solid silver sweet dishes (which went for
£l7) was introduced by the auctioneer as
an inscribed presentation. Similarly branded
was a magnificent cut-glass jar for which
the gentleman of the hammer said 100
guineas had been subscribed. Someone got it
for a wee bit over £3O. There was circum-
stantial evidence of refurnishing at Stoning-
ton, during the absence of the Somerses, in
the form of some fine old Chippendale and
Sheraton chairs and cabinets in mahogany.
A crystal chandelier and a couple of gilt
candelabra hung above a miscellaneous col-
lection of vases and pottery, some of them
pretty good pieces too. A real antique was
a wax figure of a Watteau shepherdess be-
neath a glass shade.
Members of the Graziers’ Federal Coun-
cil and their womenfolk combined business
with pleasure during its Conference Week.
The president of the Victorian association,
Dalziel Kelly, and Mrs. Kelly led off the
round with a tea party at Mrs. George
Kelly’s home at Toorak, to which all were
beckoned. At the Quamby Club during the
week Mrs. D. Kelly and Mrs. Hunter Pat-
terson, whose husband is president of the
South Riverina Pastoralists’ Union, presided
over a luncheon for ladies only. Lovely
roses trailed over the damasx, and there were
posies for the guests who included the Wad-
dell lady, from N.S.W., and Mrs. Alfred
Coldham, of Queensland. Theatre and bridge
parties occupied the evenings.
The director of the Berkeley, one of our
most artistic eating-houses, with biscuit-
tinted wallas, charming pictures and bright-
blue curtains, handed over the establishment
for an afternoon of bridge organised by Mrs.
W. Maekay and Mrs. E. A. Bennett to
assist tin* Ladies’ Aid Association of the
Homoeopathic Hospital. Three hundred
players cut for partners.
The vestibule of Scott’s Hotel looked like
a parcels post office on a recent afternoon,
when hundreds of women arrived with bulky
brown-paper-wrapped burdens consisting of
linen of all kinds for the Queen Victoria
Hospital. The committee sends out an
annual SOS for supplies of this sort, and
rewards its benefactors with a cup of tea, a
bit to eat and some music. The response
this year delighted the hearts of the presi-
dent, Mrs. Norman Brookes, and her col-
leagues. Some cash was garnered by sales
of flowers and sweets. Mrs. W. B. Car-
negie arranged the musical programme,
heading the vocalists being Mrs. William
Jarties —on the stage she’s Sappho Arnov.
Vellum-toned satin was draped about
Frances Aitken for her wedding with G. A.
Ritchie, whose parents live at Flinders.
Scots Church wore floral decorations, and
there was a celebration afterwards at No.
9. The bride, a daughter of Mrs. C. Aitkin,
of Equity Park, Berrigan (N.S.W.), en-
hanced the beauty of her simple long-sleeved
goWn with a veil of antique Limerick lace
that fell over waves of white tune, and
carried arum lilies. In attendance were her
sisters, Mrs. Ormond Foster, of Boisdale,
and Joan Ritchie, whose daffodil georgette
frocks were matched by their gloves and felt
hats.
Here is Mrs. S. J. Davis, known in the art
world as Agnes Paterson, one of the Austra-
lian painters
represented in
this ye a r’s
Royal Acad-
emy show in
London. It is
only recently
that she has
mu s tered up
sufficient cour-
age to exhibit
her min i a-
tures she is
self - taught—
and the sur-
prise of her
life came when
the august
R.A. sent her
a card for var-
nishing day. A
D i C lc i nson-
Monteath cam-
era caught the
likeness.
Several drawing-room chattings over tea
were a preliminary to a tWo-weeks’ city
canvass on behalf of the Girls’ Forward
Movement of the Y.W.C.A., the object
being to raise funds for a hostel at Can-
berra. The Capital Commissioners have
promised a subsidy on condition that the
builders must start in September. So for the
next 30 days the business man will be in-
vaded in his lair by women paying what is
termed “a finance call,” which sounds ever
so. much more businesslike than mere beg-
ging for money. The final home meeting to
plan the raid was held at Mrs. J. G. Lath-
am’s Malvern home on Thursday afternoon,
when Eleanor Hinder described the work
accomplished and the association’s aims for
the future. Songs by Mrs. Pavey, a recent
arrival from Adelaide, were sandwiched be-
tween speech and kettle-boiling.
Public lectures, engineered by the chair-
man of the Uni. Extension Board, have con-
tributed to the culture of our citizens during
the last fortnight, and have proved very
popular. Prof. G. H. Cowling’s series treated
of “The Novel”; Prof. E. Hartung demon-
strated chemical phenomena by means of a
projection lantern: “The Workings of the
Unconscious Mind” was W. M. Ball’s theme;
and the chairman outlined philosophical
principles. Dr. J. A. Leach spoke upon
“Australian Birds,” and economics and other
knotty subjects were listed. Alice Smith,
the only woman lecturer, expatiated on
faults in English and had overflow audiences
every evening. A somewhat recent arrival to
the Teachers' College, she has a nicely-modu-
lated voice and is quite easy to look at.
The latest addition to our bushland re-
serves is 18 acres on the top of Mt. Dande-
nong, and Lands Minister Angus has
planted there the first of 70 trees that are
intended to supplement the established foli-
age. This part of the hills surrounding Mel-
bourne is much favored by motorists on
account of its scenic beauty. The Forestry
Commission and the Tree Planters’ and Nur-
serymen’s Associations are showing keen in -
terest.
Broothorn pictures here the wife of the
lately knighted Prof. Colin Mackenzie, direc-
tor of the National Museum of Australian
Zoology and founder of the Australian Insti-
tute of Anatomical Research. The Mac-
kenzie lady is
well known as
Dr. Winifred
Smith, a
graduate of
Melbourne
Uni. and one
of the lionor-
aries of the
Que e n Vic-
toria Hospital
staff. Her
marriage is a
very recent
h a p p e n i ng.
Affectionate 1 y
known among
his friends as
“Bricky,” Dr.
Mack e n zie,
who hails from
Kilmore, near
Gisborne, was
also trained at
the local shop.
Returned from Europe after five years’
absence are Agnes Murphy and her com-
panion, Aimee Moore. Ixmg known as
director of tours of musical and theatrical
stars, Miss Murphy is on this occasion com-
bining business with pleasure, coming as
an emissary from E. J. Carroll to feel the
pulse of the musical folk of Australia in
reference to the selection of celebrities to
visit us. Also H. B. Phillips, managing
director of the Carl Rosa Opera Co., has
asked her to investigate the financial pros-
pects of a period of opera in o\ir capitals.
Among the artists who are in touch with
the E.J.C. organisation, and who might be
tempted to come south —since theatrical and
concert business in London is just now very
depressed—arc Marie Jeritza. beauti-
ful of voice, face and figure; Elizabeth Schu-
mahn, another famous soprano, from Vienna ;
and Paul Robeson, the negro basso, who was
the outstanding figure in the “Ole Man
River” song of “The Showboat” in the Lon-
don presentation.
The R.C. Church in Australia lost a great
benefactor by the sudden death in the early
hours of Saturday morning of T. J. O’Lough-
lin, who bore the Papal title of count. He
gave a cathedral to his home town, Kilkenny,
in Iceland, and many of his four-figure
cheques went to Australian churches and
church institutions. Mr. O’Loughlin settled
in Ballarat wheh he first came to Australia,
but for many years had resided in Ivew. He
left no son. "His five dauglit rs, the eldest of
whom is 17, are pupils at Mandeville Hall,
to which convent, among other gifts, he pre-
sented a marble altar for the chapel. Mrs.
O'Loughlin died only a few years ago.
Mrs. Dick McCann, who, until she mar-
ried her painter husband 38 months ago.
was Margery Withers, is to hold a show of
her oils and water-colors next month. She
is daughter of the late Walter Withers, who
is represented by two pictures in the Gal-
lery, and studied at the N.G. under Bermrd
Hall and the late Fred McCubbin. For
some time she has beeh on the staff of Swin-
burne College. Her exhibition, which will
be at the Athenaeum, is her second single-
handed show.
The Robinson lady. Mrs. James Purves and
Valerie, Katie Liddell and Eileen Castles
were amongst those who defied cold and
wet to listen to Brailowsky on Saturday.
Madame Pavlova and a party were at the
matinee on Thursday.
Weakness of spelling isn’t confined to the
alien storekeeper. While Prof. Gunn was
lecturing on ethics at the Uni. On Friday-
night, a Chatterer’s attention wandered often
to a notice-board on which was an announce-
ment that an address would be given by
Colonel Brinsmead.
The Victoria League is emulating the
Women Citizens’ League by instituting edu-
cational talks over the luncheon table at
regular intervals. At the first of these gather-
ings, at the Windsor, Priminister Bruce dis-
coursed on the subject of Imperial unity.
The Maudsley lady welcomed the P.M., and
stressed the fact that the league admits men
to membership. Mayor and Mayoress Lux-
ton were there.
The Housewives’ Association, under the
leadership of Mrs. Percy RUsSsll, has added
oysters to its fish-stall stock, charging 9(1.
per doz. unopened and a shilling shelled A
rush has set in, and Queensland can find a
ready sale here for as many bags as she
likes to send us.
The show of sculpture by Mrs. Douglas
Richardson, professionally known as Mar-
garet Baskerville, at the Arts and Crafts
depot was launched by Mrs. J. G. Latham,
wife of the Federal Attorney-General, who
received her first lessons in drawing from
the sculptor. Mrs. Latham’s Paisley-pat-
terned satin frock was worn with a natural
kasha coat and felt millinery. Mrs. Richard-
son numbers among her achievements the
Edith Cavell memorial on St. Kilda-road and
other war monuments.
We are shortly? to see at the Sedon Gal-
leries another show of the paintings of
Robert Campbell, the young Scottish artist
who has made Melbourne his home since the
age of 14. In September of last year he
held his first exhibition, and nearly all of
the 86 pictures were marked with the seal
of purchase before the show opened. Since
then he journeyed to Paris with Rupert
Bunny, and is at present pursuing his
studies in Britain. His show will consist
of oils and water-colors, the harvest of the
artist’s sojourn abroad.
An Australian, Myra Bowman Lloyd, has
byen causing a ripple in Parisian art circles
by her exhibition of bronzes. While residing
in the gay city she has been a pupil of the
great Bourdell, and now has set up a studio
of her own in the Compagne Premifere. The
critics gave special prajse to a head of
the Maid of Orleans, in the conception of
which, they said, much originality was dis-
played.
Rooked for Java and the Near East are
Edmund Shepherd and daughter Corona.
Mrs. Shepherd, having no fancy for travel,
stays in the Armadale home to be near her
son Bruce, now at Geelong College. Desire
Shaw, another daughter, has come down from
her station home near Bendigo to see the
trippers off and keep her mother from feel-
ing lonely.
The Hylton Dales, who are now visiting
Sydney, were prominent folk at the Over :
seas League reunion before leaving. He re-
lated soldiering experiences in Syria and the
East. His pretty wife, who was born in
Cairo, chatters Arabic as easily as a canary
sings. The Overseas League, which has taken
vigorous root in this city, has branches
throughout the Empire.
“A.G.M.” wrote from London to this Page,
telling of the marirage of Mr. Morgan
D’Arcy’s grandson Norman to “Lady Peggy
Hay, daughter of the late Earl of Kinnoull,”
and added that “the bride’s brother, the
present Earl of Kinnoull,” married a daugh-
ter of Mrs. Meyrick, the night-club lady.
Mrs. Abbott, of Payneham (S.A.), states
that lady Peggy is not so close a relative
to young Kinnoull, who never had a sister,
and mentions that his grandmother was a
daughter of Nigel Gresley, once manager
of the Union Bank at Hobart. She mar-
ried Harley Bacon, son of Lady Charlotte
Bacon, and the mother of the Earl of Kin-
noull was her younger daughter.
Madame Kate Maggia, proprietress of
Pasoli’s Cafe, died last week. She was known
and beloved by a wide circle. Artists, actors,
musicians, journalists and professional men
of all kinds have for years made Fasoli’s
a rendezvous where pleasant meals and
humorous conversations enlivened life’s
monotony. Madame Maggia’s husband in his
youth was one of a band of clever Italian
engineers in the Public Works Department.
H r son Guido is on the literary staff of the
Age.
Rady Somers has contracted the flying
habit in England, and may come back with
a pilot’s license in her bag. She has been
taking flights into the blue with Lady Bailey.
The Norman Camerons —she was Nancy
Stokes —have decided on a caravan honey-
moon, and as the building of their homestead
on his N.S.W. squattage has been delayed
owing to the timber turmoil, they will live in
the waggon till the larger nest is ready.
The Melbourne Hospital is the first in
Australia to establish a dietary kitchen under
scientific supervision. Shortly the inno-
vation will be in full swing under the direction
of Nurse Nesta Miller. In the best circles
diet is now regarded as important as medi-
cine and surgery in the cure of disease.
They don’t always do things better in
France. A Melbournite touring Europe
recently acquired a permanent wave in Paris
at a very high price. Not only were her
tresses nearly ruined, but her scalp w r as
burned so badly as to necessitate treatment:
in a private hospital.
Mrs. James Alston, who has for nine
years been associated with the Women’s
Hospital, has been nominated as president
in succession to Mrs. Herbert Brookes.
Mrs. Alston and her husband are noted for
their philanthropy, and she is president of
the Association of Creches. Other interests
are the Bush Nursing Association, the
Children’s Hospital, the City Newsboys’
Club and the Victoria League.


■HHSi
■
s I §
: 11
. i
■
HI
lH
m
mm
*& ~£'
wm
■
M
*># <4 5$ L.
m
' <
1 l-r U'
i") rr n
s't rro^
m r*
ii
■Hi
■■■
mm
, m
p * «> v^®§
tXvXyll
x >■ 'v* xn> } m
ZlrcXaw
m
ssss
I
■
■
umii
sSssssSm
SSSN
m
» «
m
?&
■
•m
m
t:%
?m
L
l-Ml
I ~M,
Jt
l~ I
L~£"
The Guillotine settles the Question
■ ofwhich is th£ most durable ball
and proves the
k&C-fmte
PMI IU ILir II -ID OT
COILIF IBAIUL
the sturdiest
in the world.
w
HAT is the Guillotine? It is the laboratory equivalent of a viciously topped iron shot It
is a heavily weighted steel knife that drops on a golf ball with all the force of a power u y
swung club.
It is devised so that the knife hits a ball exactly as a club does on a topped shot Coldly
scientific free from all human variance, it plays no favorites. It is the most relentless and
revealing golf ball test that can be made.
The nine balls shown above took this Guillotine Test. One is the Kro-Flite. The
remaining eight are the best-k nown balls the world produces. On each ot t ese
eight the falling blade of the guillotine cut completely through the cover. All eigh
were hopelessly ruined.
But in the Kro-Flite the Guillotine met its master. On this stout-covered ball
the knife left a barely visible dent. After this terrific abuse this Kro- 1 e
could easily have played more than the 72 holes for which Spalding guar-
antee it. The Guillotine has never yet been able to cut a Kro-Mite ball
—it has never failed to cut any other.
Try the Kro-Flite yourself. Test it for durability, and measure it for
distance against any other ball in the world.
Guaranteed for 72 Holes
There are no “ifs“ands” or “buts” about this guarantee.
It means exactly what it says: We absolutely guarantee
replacement of any Kro-Flite Ball that is cut thiough
or becomes unplayable from any cause whatsoever in
72 holes of play. /
r&ixrt.
JN.C3. VV .)
PTY. LTD,*
352 Kent Street, SYDNEY
With the i
MULTI-DOT
MARKING
FROM ALL PROFESSIONALS AND SPORTS
STOR E S


.
u
/
y
&
4
■
m
df
/p
St\
<1
m
*SS :&t§p£
m
«gMggWf?’;
*
to
3g&
?TM^j
m
-«#. ■
i
—i
dspsap
«r v
shfS
:•
>
w
Tima rag
Lamps and
Lanterns
'The Sunshine of the Night"
COLEMAN QUICK-LITE Lamps
and Lanterns each give More Light
than 20 old-style Kerosene Lamps
or 20 old-style Kerosene Hurricane
Lanterns.
NO WICKS TO TRIM—
NO CHIMNEYS TO CLEAN
'J'HE day you get your Coleman QUICK-LITE Lamp
will end all the drudgery and trouble old-style
oil lamps mean in your home.
—No more greasy wicks to trim!
—No more smoky chimneys to clean!
—No more daily fillings!
—No soot to soil your table coverings,
curtains, walls and woodwork!
You simply light your QUICK-LITE whenever you
want cheeiy radiance. You fill it only once a
week, and it gi\es you an average of two or three
hours’ beautiful pure-white brilliance every evening.
And it’s always ready for immediate use in any
room of your home. The QUICK-LITE solves your
lighting problem perfectly; saves you work; saves
you worry and sa»es you money—and, best of all,
it saves eyesight.
300 Cand.e power—Brighter than 20 old-style oil
lamps.
Lights with Matches —No delay—no hunting around
for an alcohol torch.
Most Economical —Makes its own gas from common
motor petrol.
A Safe Light To Use—Can’t spill fuel, even if tipped
o\ er.
An Orna ent in Any Home —Handsomely designed,
built of brass, heavily nickelled and polished.
COLEMAN QUICK-LITE CO.
of Australia,
135 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE
713 HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO, SYDNEY
31 BOWER B’L'GS, CHARLES STREET, ADELAIDE


£ «
§ka/9€
Fashion in China
varying in
Chinaware as in all
else, are constant in this
that a tea-cup and its saucer
must be exquisitely light.
English Bone China alone
has this perfection. One
of this season’s mostfashion-
ablc 'designs is illustrated.
To say that every piece
hears the name of Shelley
is to say that it is English
Bone China of the best.
Ask to see the latest
SHELLEY
Tba Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
• China
Nursery Ware
£y Lucie Attweu
6-Hiida Cowham
Domestic Ware
Jelly Moulds
• AtTliH MAP*
IM CASE ©F AMY DIFFICULTY IM ©STAINING
weir* to
r«W.H|*rH C CO. CTO.
MI.CLAKINCI
w
Amusements.
CYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: THE DESERT
SONG.
ROYAL: THE FLYING SQUAD.
CRITERION: THE PERFECT ALIBI.
PALACE: DRACULA.
DICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY— 2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World's Best.
J c. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
THE FIVE-O’CLOCK GIRL.
ROYAL:
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
SIR HARRY LAUDER.
ING ’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
THE WRECKER.
lIOYT’S DUE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
RUBY MILLER in
THE INFINITE LADY
AND
JEFFE DE JORJKA as
JAKE THE PLUMBER.
Victoria Racing Club
FLEMINGTON.
GRAND NATIONAL STEEPLECHASE
MEETING.
SATURDAY, JULY 6,
GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE RACE-
£2OOO added money.
WEDNESDAY, JULY 10,
THE TWO-YEAR-OLD MILE.
SATURDAY, JULY 13,
GRAND NATIONAL STEEPLECHASE.
£5OOO added money.
Large Entries. Stakes over £15,000.
ARTHUR V. KEWNEY, Secretary.
ŵ
INSTANT PEACE
FOR ANGRY STOMACHS
Eat what you like—provided you take three tablets
ot Para-Pepsin with it. Result: No pain! Just
stomach peace, and unaccustomed energy. Para
Pepsin stops only the excess acid, and thus stops pain
without stopping digestion as an anti-acid may.
Try Para-Pepsin and know this genuine relief! Costs
2/-; never disappoints. Chemists sell it. Or direct
from Amalgamated Laboratories, Kembla Building,
Sydney. - -
Missing Friends.
T
O EDWARD GILES formerly of
Montgomery Street Kogtsrah in the
State of New South Wales but now of
parts unknown laborer.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife AGNEfc
GILES has instituted proceedings _ tor
divorce against you the said Edward Giles
on the ground of desertion Unless >ou
enter an appearance in the Prothonotary s
office in Melbourne on or before the twenty-
ninth day of July 1929 the case may proceed
in your absence and you the said Ldwai
Giles may be ordered to pay costs.
H. 11. rlUAKlli,
440 Little Collins Street. Melbourne
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
UE ROBERT TRETHEWY SALMON,
Deceased.
Will any person knowing the whereabouts
of any of the following relatives of the
above-named deceased communeiate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Hobart, Tasmania:—
1 The issue of deceased’s brother John,
who died on 24th March, 1903.
2. Deceased’s brother Harry. ,
3. Deceased’s nephew Robert James Alfred
Harris.
INFORMATION IS REQUIRED concern-
* ing one WILLIAM SMITH-GREEN,
who was born about 1822. and came to New
Zealand about 1855 as a Private in the 05th
Regiment. Married on 23rd April, 18b7, at
Wellington, New Zealand, to Mary Alex-
ander, who died at Wellington, Bth Novem-
ber, 1878. It is understood William Smith-
Green left New Zealand for Australia in
that year. Anyone who can furnish infor-
mation concerning the said William Smith-
Green or place and date of his death is
requested to kindly communicate with the
District Public Trustee, Wellington. New
Z'-aland.
Legal Notice.
"TO SARAH ANN BARBU (ndc DAVI-
SON) formerly of Adelaide in the State
of South Australia and Bedurie in the
State of Queensland Married Woman.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation bearing
date the 27th day of March 1029 has been
issued in the Supreme Court of Jsouth Aus-
tralia citing you to appear and answer the
petition of Daniel Barbu of Flinders Street
Adelaide in the said State praying for a
dissolution of his marriage with you on the
ground of desertion.
AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that
for the purpose aforesaid you are within
one hundred and eighty days from the date
of this publication to attend in person or
by your solicitor at the Office of the Master
of the said Court Victoria Square Adelaide
and 'there to enter an appearance in the
Suit IN DEFAULT of your so appearing
you will not be allowed to address the Court
and the Court will proceed to hear the said
petition proved and pronounce sentence in
respect thereto in your absence.
(Sgd.) F. B. McBRYDE,
Deputy Master-
E. J COX & SON, Epwortli Buildings,
Pirie Street, Adelaide, Solicitors for the
Petitioner.
Public Notice.
PJORSHAM, Victoria. —If this should meet
** t j ie eye 0 f a ny former residents of Hor-
sham, please write Secretary. Horsham
Reunion, October 19 to 26, 1929, Box 210,
Horsham P.O.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
front Entrance to Domain and circular
Quay .
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and up.vards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
MADE
BRITISH
Perfection
RITSK. RUBBER
PERCY MARKS,
.IEWELLEK AND LAPIDAUY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emeralds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Setting*.
PICNIC,
OR SUPPER INTRODUCE
$•???*:
CRAB
AND SEE.,TNE smiling welcome
HE. RECEIVES
fob rutrr
AS* TOttH s*Ot£*
The Little Sisters
SOUTH’ AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
In order to interest the public in the
Y.W.C.A. the Kidman lady entertained a
large party at the Lady Colton Hall op a
recent afternoon, when Lady Horc-Ruthven
and Mayoress Bonython were present. After-
noon tea was served, and J. J. Virgo made
a speech on the activities of the association.
Consie Cowan was hostess at a cheery
dinner party at the Oriental one evening last
week. Afterwards the guests motored down
to the Maison, at Glenelg, for a dance. Pink
and mauve floral decorations on the table
and carnival novelties added to tlie effect.
The guests included Mr. and Mrs. Hill Smith,
Mary Eeggie, Joan Kelly, Phyllis Salter,
Marjorie Hayward, Dorothy Finlayson and
Claire Field.
Ruth Naylor, the Elder overseas scholar
for 1929, left by the Mosel for London to
continue her studies. She expects to be
absent about four years.
The B.M.A. burst into hospitality last
week when it celebrated its jubilee with
a conversazione at the Uni. As the whole
membership was invited guests, it was not
surprising that throughout the reception
various doctors were wanted on the telephone.
Dr. John Corbin, the president, is a sop of
the founder of this State’s branch (I>r. T-
W. Corbin). The reception by the president
and Mrs. Corbin was held in the new re-
fectory of the Uni. Union. The high mantel
was banked with pink blossom, and the hall
was decorated with autumnal foliage. Mrs.
Corbin wore pale pink georgette, beaded in
crystal. Dr. Thorold Grant announced the
guests, Following on the reception, the
party trooped off from the one great build-
ing to another, where different professors
demonstrated some of the wonders of science,
including the “canti” film, showing the effect
of radium on cancer. The Governor was
present, accompanied by Lady Stonehaven
and Lady Hore-Ruthven, Captain Grosvenor
bringing up the rear beneath a load of cloaks.
Knight George Murray. Miss Murray and
Mayor and Mayoress Bonython were also
guests. Supper was served in a huge marquee
and later there was dancing.
Madame V. Buesst has arrived accom-
panied by her grand-daughter, Victorine
Buesst, recently returned from school
in Switzerland. She is the daughter of
Aylmer Buesst, conductor at the Covent Gar-
den Opera. Madame and Miss Buesst are
the guests of Dr. and Mrs. A. E. V. Richard-
son, at Urrbrae.
Three one-time Adelaide residents are
members of Leon Gordon’s comedy co. now
at the Royal—his wife nie Nancy Atkins,
Noel Boyd and Frank Bradley, whose dra-
matic ability first saw light among the
amateur performers of the Appenureena
Company.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Dainty black and white French caps and
white-pleated aprons striped with black were
worn over white frocks by the supper assist-
ants at the ball for the R.S.C.P.A.
Bessie Alderson, Helen Clement, Chrissie
Dempster, Mrs. Dixie Clement and Mrs. Tom
Hearder were some who donned the chic rai-
ment, and served at tables decked with wattle
and green and gold foliage. Alex. Clydesdale,
M.L.A., and members of the committee had
the vice-regals under wing, aud supped at
the camellia-massed official table. Lady Cam-
pion was in sea-blue embossed georgettes;
Mrs. C. Arnott’s rhinestones glittered over
moon-blue; Mrs. A. Burt’s mignonette green
silk peeped through black lace ; Watson Wil-
liams danced in orchid mauves ; Grace Cale
in almond blossom pink, and Arlene Cale in
gold-spotted net.
The bridge party at the Repertory C}ub
was most cosy; a log fire crackled merrily,
and vivid poinsettias and shining gumtips
provided warm coloring. Mrs. D. D. Paton
was responsible, and supervised all in a stone-
shaded kasha and metal jumper suit. Mrs.
A. L. Parker, Mrs. H. Bennett, Miss M.
Hodges, Miss E. Russell and others served
tea.
Perth Dental Hospital has had a substan-
tial cheque, proceeds from Arthur Maxwell’s
production of “The Man from Toronto.” In
this well-played comedy A. G. Poock made
a hit as Cousin Bobby, the family goof.
Maude Dingwall was a charming Mrs. Cal-
throp and Norrie John was adequately glaci-
cal as Ruth Wimbush. The v.-r. party
attended on the last night, when G. Hender-
son, president of the dental board, and his
wife did the honors.
A surprise party for Eva Saw, two days
before she sailed for England, was a great
success. Tynka Salom, with assistance from
Yvonne Nairn and Jean Smith, arranged the
affair. Miss Saw was whisked off to dinner
at the Savoy, while the surprisers invaded
the Saw house and occupied the fern-flecked
lounge. Cheers from 140 throats greeted the
floral-ninoned traveller on her arrival amidst
the. dancers. After a toast had b 'en drunk to
the lass’s success, Dr. Jim Ainslie responded
on her behalf.
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane. :
The Governor and Lady Goodwin went to
the Diggers’ Ball at Sandgate Town H’all,
and the Digs, provided an impressive guard
of honor. A. H. Crease had done some car-
toons in color, scenes from camp-life, for the
walls, and they lay between palm-fronds and
many-hued streamers. Strings of electric
lights made a canopy, from which hung
bunches of gaily-colored balloons. Lady
Goodwin’s black mariette was studded with
iridescent sequins, and she wore a short
coat of figured black ring velvet. Mrs. T.
Peters, in leaf-green, presented a bouquet of
crimson roses. Mrs. A. E. White, in a red
and gold brocaded lam 6 coat with fur collar
and cuffs over a black mariette and rhine-
stone-girdled gown, presented two debs.—
Jean Salisbury, in ivory satin with bouffant
overdress of silk net, and Helen Connon, in
white silk lace and georgette mounted on
satin.
The Women’s Club celebrated its 21st
birthday with a party. There was a large
cake, surmounted by candles, and music. Mrs.
V. Wiley decorated the room with Gallipoli
glory and poinsettia, with overhead festoons
of asparagus fern rosetted with poinsettia.
Mrs. Edgar B. Harris presid 'd. Mrs. A. J.
Thynne (who presided at the club’s first
meeting) was with her on the platform, with
Mrs. W. Stephens (the first president). Miss
M. A. Ogg (the first secretary) and Miss
A. E. Ilighfield (a past-president and sec-
tary). Eunice Cochrane looked after the
music, and contributors to the programme
were Florence Micheli, Mabel Zillman, Lena
Hammond. Merna Gillies, Mildred Bell and
Barbara Sisley.
lan Gall’s show of pen-drawings at the
Gainsborough Gallery was opened by Premier
Moore, who has been caricatured by the artist
but harbors no resentment. A great deal of
Gall’s work in decorative style, which appears
to owe something to the influence of Aubrey
Beardsley and D. H. Sou ter. has been done
for The Bulletin, and his ab lity to catch a
likeness has also been exhibited in these
pages. In the recent election campaign in
this State he further demonstrati d his versa-
tility by producing for the Courier a series
of political cartoons that combined wit with
good temper.
Barbara Sisley produced “All-of-a-Sudden
Peggy” at Cremorne, to benefit the Y.W.C. A..,
before enthusiastic audiences. Jeah Trundle
was Peggy and Dorothea Hives was her
mamma. Pretty frocking graced the perform-
ance, which ran for two nights.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The O’Grady has had an interesting tour
in the back o’ beyond on Flinders Island,
where the inhabitants have done him proud
with all sorts of entertainments. Sir James
is the most indefatigable traveller the Speck
has ever had as Governor. Margaret stayed
behind on this occasion, and read, most
successfully the “slavey’s” part in “The
Third Floor Back” at the W.E.A.’s fort-
nightly play-reading.
This bright young person, Miss A. C. Irvine,
fills the position of “mistress of domestic
science for
T a s in ania,”
and we nt
through her
training in all
branches a t
the Coliege of
Domestic Eco-
nomy, Mel-
bourne. She
presides over a
staff of four
teachers and
two students,
and the course
includes cook-
ery, hou s e-
wifery, laun-
dry work,
need lework,
care of infants
and hygiene.
About 400
school girls
attend the
classes.
The women graduates got busy lately over
raising funds for the conference of Aus.
Uni. women, which is to be held in the
Speck early next year. A bridge party at
the Teachers’ College was organised as their
first effort. Mrs. McPhee, wife of the Pre-
mier, was one of the hostesses, and among
others were Rita Lowenstein, Mrs. F. M.
Young, Mrs. A, Podder, Miss D. Travers,
Dr. Christine Walcli, Mrs. A. C- Kennedy,
Mrs. Treglar and Miss N. Sharland.
Two young nurses, Nancy Young, of New
Norfolk, and Enid Murray, of Hobart, set
out recently to walk from Launceston to
New Norfolk by way of the East Coast, a
distance of about 230 miles. Rigged out in
breeches, sweaters and high boots, their gear
in a light little go-cart, they pushed on
through all sorts of weather, and say they
thoroughly enjoyed the expenience. On one
occasion they walked all night, as their
blankets were soaked by the rain of the day.
News comes from the Cold Country of
the Radcliffe sisters, Cicely and Dorothy,
who are enjoying their trip immensely. They
have invested in a small car, and intend
going at a leisurely pace through the Eng-
lish countryside, stopping where they feel
most inclined.
NORTHERN TERRITORY.
Darwin.
Ali Hassan, one of our best-known busi-
ness men, has died suddenly; his funeral
was one of the biggest ever seen in Darwin.
A native of Hongkong, he had resided in
the Territory for over 30 years.
Chin Ack Nam (of the firm of Fang Chong
Loong and Co.) was married to Lucy Que
Noy last week in the traditional Chinese
style. The whole of the ceremonies were
arranged by the bridegroom’s grandmother,
a resident of China, who is 102 years of age.
The ritual covered four days; separate days
were arranged for the reception of white and
Chinese guests. Two hundred fowls were
slaughtered for the occasion and four pigs
squeak d their last. The bridegroom's father
has been a resident of Darwin for almost 50
years.
The Moulden lady is making a short stay;
she intends to inspect the tantalite mines at
West Arm. She made part of the journey
by aeroplane.
Mr. and Mrs. J. Hargreaves Millican’s
daughter Madge is to marry Clifford, son of
Mr. and Mrs. W. Green, Bendigo. The pro-
spective bridegroom is in the Taxation
Department here.
Sister Knott, of the Australian Board of
Missions, who has been the guest of deacon-
ness Hatton, has departed to take up her
duties with the Forrest River Mission.


enhance
uourbeauti)
DEAIITY of face is best
® framed in a wraith of
charming hair. Make the most ef your
hair as a background for your beauty try
using Rowland’s Macassar Oil twice a day.
Comb the or] welt into yeur hair, when it
wi.l shew the gross of health, arid weak
and falling hair will be a thing of the past.
Of all Chemists
S»2
th
Stores and Hair-
dressers. Red
ler dark hair.
Golden for fair
cr grey hah.
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, London, W.C.1..
ENGLAND.
#
/ *
//
a
i
will appreciate
tke deUcaJte
Bouquet and.
mellow flavour of
BRANDY
Shipps o sot fir from rue comwic oismxrt
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
THIS IS THE £500 FIRST-PRIZE NOVEL “A HOUSE IS BUILT," BY FLORA ELDERSHAW AND MARJORIE BARNARD,
ABRIDGED BY “THE BULLETIN” FOR SERIAL PUBLICATION.
THE QUARTERMASTER.
Norman Lindsa/:
ei
ẁ
ON a warm evening in March, the ladies
entertained Mr. Moore in the
drawing-room. The Quartermaster
and William were absent. Adela and
Esther sewed, Fanny sat at the harpsi-
chord and Mr. Moore stood beside
her. It was a moment of perfect domestic
peace and Fanny felt reconciled to her
marriage, felt, indeed, almost as if she
were already married, that the placid waters
of life had closed over her plunge. The
harpsichord was near the windows, and three
candles burned in either sconce.
“What a beautiful evening after a tiring
day! Delightful to sit by the open
windows,” Mr. Moore murmured to her as
if in confidence.
“Yes,” she murmured back; “but we shall
soon have to shut them—the wind is
rising.”
The long lace curtains moved in the
breeze, the candles curtsied. Another
moment, and a curtain had fluttered out
and swept the flame. A blaze sprang up
to the ceiling. In an instant Mr. Moore
had tom down the burning curtain and
flung it from the window, where it fell to
ashes on the grass. Fanny stamped out
the flakes of fire upon the carpet, and except
for the echo of Esther’s scream it was all
over. But the burning fabric had fallen
across Mr. Moore —his coat and arm were
slightly burned, his hands more severely.
Fanny ministered to him with the oil
and old linen Adela brought. It was neces-
sary to cut the shirt away from the injured
arm. Fanny’s eyes fastened on a scar and
she grew very pale. Moore saw the pallor
and, not perceiving the cause, was pleased
that his present hurt should so touch her.
He admired her mingled competence and
sensibility.
The finding of the scar changed every-
thing. It made Mr. Moore a human being,
it dragged her into painful contact with the
world of passion and romance, a world that
she had put away six years ago. It was
only possible to contemplate marriage with
a man she did not love and did not greatly
admire while she kept the idea in the dry
atmosphere of reason, and viewed it as a
contract by which they would both gain
;omething. Now the thought of the dead
wife haunted her. It could not be jealousy,
but she could not take without love the
husband of this long-dead girl. It was like
sin to live with him when she could not
affer him anew love to cancel the old. She
chid herself for sentimentality and folly.
It was useless; she rebelled against the
marriage. She feared that the old treacher-
ous warmth might be flowing back into her
heart. Perhaps she was coming to life
again. At any cost she must get back. Fear
beat about her like a thing with wings.
Despite her anxiety to be free of it,
Fanny felt herself already involved in the
marriage. She had tacitly agreed to the
courtship; she had raised Adela’s hopes;
and she had no real reason for withdrawing
now. Everybody was expecting the betro-
thal, and were she to send Mr. Moore away
now she would have to pass again through
an ordeal of inquisition, though perhaps a
silent one this time. . Everyone would be
reminded of her inexplicable conduct six
years’ ago. Fanny felt very lonely and
weak.
But, after all, farce, not tragedy, was to
destroy the marriage, and it was Fanny’s
pride and not her heart that made the
last decision.
One evening the Quartermaster brought
home a stranger. He was a sad-looking man,
climbing dolefully towards fifty. He had
long, pale, melancholy features and pale
lifeless whiskers. Heavy lines ran from his
nostrils to the corners of his mouth, and
the mouth itself was continued downwards
by means of creases for an inch or so on
cither side. His gentle dog’s eyes were
worthy of a better face. He was shabby to
the point of pathos and his manner was
nervous.
The Quartermaster presented him to
Adela.
“Mr. Bardon, m’dear. Mr. Horatio Bardon.
from Melbourne. He knew my o'd friend
Jacob Jeffries in London and Jacob told
him to look me up.”
“That’s true,” said Mr. Bardon, “but
considering I was going to Melbourne, I
couldn’t do it before.”
“How long have you been in Melbourne,
Mr. Bardon?” inquired Adela.
“Three years, ma’am,” and his hearers
were left to infer that they had been very
bad years.
The family at City-road found him diffi-
cult to entertain, but he came whenever
he was asked, and it was some time before
any one realised that he came to see Esther.
Horatio had found at last a woman who
did not frighten him, who was kind without
being beautiful or clever or young or cheer-
ful, who knew how to be poor and was
willing to condole with him. Esther was a
veritable oasis in this prosperous household.
Through the winter of 18-8, Esther gradu-
ally unfolded. She sewed bunches of pink
ribbon on her grey gown and retrimmed
her bonnet. The Quartermaster chuckled:
“It looks as if Cousin Esther was going
to leave us. Dogged does it, my dear!”
Fanny winced, but not at her parent’s
vulgarity. Esther and Mr. Bardon
were becoming, Fanny thought, more
and more every day a replica of
Mr. Moore and herself. The thought
obsessed her. They stole the decorum away
from her courtship. She imagined every-
one saying of her as they said of Esther:
“It’s her last chance,” and “She’s lucky
to get a husband at the eleventh hour.”
One Thursday both gentlemen arrived
at the Laburnums at 8.30 and were ushered
into the drawing-room together. The maid’s
face wore a smirk as she returned to the
kitchen. Even she saw comedy in the
picture of Miss Fanny and Miss Esther
sitting in the parlor, each with her beau.
Lionel was feverish that night and Adela
would not leave him. Presently the
Quartermaster, from boredom rather than
tact, pleaded business to transact, and
withdrew, taking William with him. The
lovers were alone—four of them. Bardon
described the vicissitudes of the tea busi-
ness. Esther gave him rapt attention.
Fanny could have shaken her for her bla-
tant flattery. As Esther expanded, Fanny
grew colder. Neither lady could suggest
an adjournment—the ’forties did not know
such boldness. So they sat through the
dreadful evening.
That evening was to have been the climax
of Mr. Moore’s courtship. The beautifully
rounded periods of his declaration lay neatly
stored in his brain ready for use; and alas!
he carried them away unshed. The evening
chilled as well as bored him, and the
advice of a friend beat in his brain with
painful iteration: “If you must marry a
mature temaie, cnoose a widow.” He had
in the nethermost layer of his conscious-
ness an uneasy feeling that he had be6n
made to look ridiculous.
For Fanny the episode was closed. The
following Thursday evening she was not at
home when Mr. Moore called. The rebuff
was a bitter one, but he gave her another
chance. He. came on the Sunday bearing
a small gift, and took Fanny by surprise
in the garden.
“I am sorry,” she said, “I am very sorry,
but I cannot accept a present. To do so
would be a false pretence,” and then very
firmly: “It is quite impossible.”
She had answered a proposal before it
was made. She knew that no explanation
or justification was possible. There was
nothing for him to do but to go. Outside
the gate he broke into a mild sweat —
“God! What an uncomfortable woman!”
That night Esther announced her engage-
ment to Horatio Bardon, and the rejoicing
at the Laburnums was not all feigned.
❖ ❖ # ❖
The tragedy of the mill came on them
unawares, a curious, sinister troubling of
still waters. Euphemia, walking at dusk
after rain along the edge of an old quarry,
missed her footing and, falling fifteen feet,
was drowned in two feet of water.
The Quartermaster brought the news
home one evening. The accident had
occurred the day before. He intended to
go to the inquest and returned with Ben-
jamin to the mill, staying the night and
going to the funeral next day. Fanny said
she would go with him to support Mrs.
Giles.
Adela remembered Euphemia and Ben-
jamin in the early days of her marriage—
a dark, restless, ravaged girl and a pale,
melancholy young man. She had been un-
favorably impressed by Euphemia, especi-
ally by her manner to Benjamin, half pre- .
datory, half pleading, and by her shrill
metallic gaiety. Euphemia had been, she
reflected, the sort of person to whom things
did happen. Adela had heard of the mar-
riage shortly after her own, and then no
more.
Miss Adelaide had something to tell.
“I did see her once after her marriage,
just once. Mamma and I had been visiting
Claire—it must be two years ago. It was
very hot and dusty, we were very thirsty,
and it occurred to us that it would be the
civil thing to call upon Mrs. Giles as we
were passing. So we went in. Mrs. Giles
received us and begged us to excuse
Euphemia, as she was indisposed. Mrs.
Giles gave us tea. But it wasn’t a com-
fortable house. She talked a lot about Mr.
Giles’s health, and all the time she seemed


"Mr. Moore saw the pallor, and was pleased that his present hurt should so touch her ”
to be listening. And there was nothing to
listen to. It was such a quiet place. When
we were coming away from the house I
looked back and I saw Euphemia.”
Miss Adelaide paused.
“My dear, she was sitting at an open
window, dressed for the evening in a satin
gown cut very low; she must have put on
all the jewellery she possessed, and her
cheeks and lips were painted. She was
just sitting there in the window with a
mirror in her hand; but she wasn’t using
it, she was looking along the road and
waiting. I assure you, Maud, my skin
crept.”
“She might have been waiting for Ben-
jamin to come and take her to a ball at
Parramatta,” said Fanny sensibly.
“A ball in summer, and when she was
too indisposed to see old friends!” boomed
Miss Adelaide.
Fanny sat in an ante-room of the court-
house while Coroner and jury considered
the death of Euphemia Shirley. Mrs. Giles
had seemed not to want Fanny during the
proceedings, and she was glad to sit here
by the open window. She was glad that
she had come, for, though many of the
curious had gathered to the inquest, no
friend had come forward to speak to Mrs.
Giles. The bereaved mother was a spectral
figure from the voluminous draperies; she
realised even before the veil was put back
that Mrs. Giles had aged immeasurably.
Benjamin, though agitated, remained him-
self. He wiped his forehead continually
and seemed to apologise for having any
private affairs at all.
Fanny ransacked her mind for words of
comfort that she could speak to Mrs. Giles.
She was so inadequate, and, after all, she did
not feel very deeply. Maud had welled with
genuine grief and horror; even Adelaide had
felt genuine interest although she was rather
horrible about it. Fanny was merely aware
of tragedy. It stood up in her mind like
a tall black obelisk. She remembered that
dinner party at the store, the night the
Rosamund had come in, and how she had
stood at the door to say good-bye to the
Gileses, and Euphemia’s white hand had
fluttered for a moment from the dark
window of the carriage. She had had a pre-
sentiment of disaster even then in the midst
of her happiness.
She fell to wondering if Euphemia’s death
had a long root of tragedy in her life, or
if it were merely the inconsequent accident
of a moment. The story was plain and
simple. The day had been hot and wet,
a tropical February day, and at sunset the
clouds had broken, showing a long stretch
of exhausted primrose sky, lapped with dun-
colored clouds, like the marshes of a tidal
river at ebb. Euphemia, already dressed
for the evening in her flounced silk gown,
had been tempted out by the cool air. She
had strolled on and on in the humid air
with her eyes on the pale sunset, and had
come to the edge of the quarry, where she
had often walked before. She had stood
them a moment and the sodden earth had
given way beneath her feet. Her head had
struck the rock bottom of the quarry, and,
stunned, she had lain in two feet of water
and drowned. It was an accident that
might have happened to any one. Fanny’s
mind affirmed that it was natural, but her
heart tasted a deeper tragedy in that long
strange silence and obscurity, and then
this sudden end.
The Court was rising. Benjamin came in
to fetch her. He was still wiping his fore-
head, but he seemed relieved. “Death by
misadventure,” he told her had been the
jury’s verdict. He was monstrously glad
to have their word for it.
Fanny had never been to the mill before.
As she approached it now in the late after-
noon sunshine it looked lonely and desolate,
The dwelling, with two rows of shuttered
windows set flat in its rectangular face,
had been painted a nondescript stone color
some five years before and was now in a
state of despondent disrepair. All the
blinds were drawn down and the whole
house seemed gathered together to resist
the thick golden light. Only the large
yellow glass handle of the front door caught
the light and glowed like a gigantic topaz.
“No one ever came here,” thought Fanny.
Mrs. Giles was collapsing under the strain
and Fanny found with relief that she had
to minister to the body instead of to the
heart. In the parlor the Quartermaster and
Benjamin were drinking the funeral port.
“A bad business,” said the Quartermaster,
shaking his head and looking at his wine.
“She was depressed,” said Benjamin,
“shockingly depressed. She was, sometimes,
you know. She blamed herself for things
she had never done, poor girl! There was
no reason why she should be unhappy ex-
cept for the things she imagined. We did
our best to—to comfort and reassure her.”
He looked at the Quartermaster himself
for assurance.
“Your marriage was not a success then.
Benjamin?” he said gently.
“It never was a marriage, really—that
was impossible. I grew more fond of her
than I ever thought I could be, though,
and more used to seeing her.”
The Quartermaster tapped his forehead
and Benjamin ' bowed his head. The
Quartermaster pursed his lips and nodded
several times. Benjamin’s head sank on his
breast, and he spoke heavily. He was
aware of no desire either to open his heart
or to shield his secret. His heart was mute
and docile as it had always been. It was
natural to him to suffer in silence, not be-
cause his grief was too sacred for words,
but because it never entered his head that
anyone would share it with him.
The Quartermaster had not the imagina-
tion to grasp all that that marriage had
been.’ The walls might have told him of
the bride, on her wedding night, breaking
under the tension of years, confessing to
her husband in an agony of shame and
remorse gross sins that she had never com-
mitted, entreating his forgiveness that he
gave her a thousand times, praying for
death, sinking down exhausted at last in
a swoon; and this scene had recurred again
and again, always the same, hut the sharp
edge of its misery never dimmed. Always
Benjamin had met it with the same quiet,
steady patience and reassuring tenderness
as if she were his beloved child in a
delirium. He had never wavered, but had
absorbed himself more and more in the
business of the mill and the keeping of its
books. Day by day he grew more meti-
culous, wrote a fairer hand, spent longer
hours at work, his reports grew more
voluminous and exact, his supervision more
minute, till the workmen became uneasy
and discontented.
Between her fits of remorse Euphemia
had lived a twisted, inward life, spent long
hours on her toilet, scarcely noticed, those
about her, and seemed to be waiting for
something or someone, they knew : not what,
or whom. She was utterly remote. Ben-
jamin wondered with horror if, behind her
fixed smile, her spirit were living out the
sins she would later confess in such bitter-
ness!. When Benjamin and Mrs. Giles
talked to one another they spoke as if
Euphemia were perfectly normal; they had
never once discussed her malady, yet they
acted in perfect unison in their discourage-
ment of visitors and their abstention from
the life of their neighbors.
In another room of that wooden shell
old Giles lay so wrapped up now in his
invalidism that it is doubtful if he ever
realised the tragedy of his home. His self-
absorption left him hardly human, all his
natural affections had withered away. Even
Euphemia’s death had scarcely stirred him.
When the Quartermaster went presently and
stood by his bedside, holding his cold heavy
haud. all he could say was: “This might
have been the death of me.” There was
fear, but no grief, in his eyes.
Benjamin and the Quartermaster were
relieved when they could escape to the
mill and discuss business.
(Continued on next puge.)


ẃ
s*
Mw
No Hotel in Adelaide
, gives such comfort
at small cost. Oppo-
site Railway Station.
Close to theatres and
shopping. 300 rooms
and 100 bathrooms.
Yale locks on every
door. Excellent ser-
vice throughout.
Write for Tariff.
>oROSVENOR
c Adelaides Finest Unlicensed Jtotel
Opp Railway Sfn.. North Terrace. Phone Cent. 4Q4t_
Is a man ever justified in killing another who is afflicted with an
incurable disease?
This problem had to be answered by a doctor under circumstances
which make it all one of the most gripping medical stories of the
century.
It is to be published next week.
“THE MURDER OF MONTAGUE DARBY.”
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan Esq. •
tr. K Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, K. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
the transaction of ail general banking business.
ẅ
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
A wonderful
bodu builder
w
is always
Fresh & pure
*
In 4 sizes
or all Chemists & Stores
Upstairs Mrs. Giles had come to life.
She sat in her stubborn carpet-covered arm-
chair, with her feet on her angular foot-
stool and her black draperies flowing about
her. She was much fallen away, but her
dark eyes were undimmed. She talked of
Euphemia eagerly, almost desperately,
swaddling her in lies.
I* army saw Mrs. Giles s eyes were crafty,
and tried to shut her ears against the torrent
of words. She sat in the darkened room
with bowed head, making her spirit adamant
to hold off this horrible old woman, but
words and phrases crept in at the joints of
her consciousness. Fanny wondered what
would happen if she accused this woman, if
she said to her suddenly: “You baited and
bullied and tormented Euphemia till you
broke down her mind, then you hid her
away here and said nothing and did nothing
until one night she was killed, and no one
can ever know whether it was an accident
or her own act. And now you are smother-
ing her in sweet lies as if you were icing
a cake. Euphemia never found any truth
or sincerity or understanding in this world.
The dark form of her mother stood between
her and the light.”
The funeral was the next day. Euphemia,
three days dead, was buried in the church-
yard of St. Ann’s, where she had been
married.
That afternoon Fanny and the Quarter-
master returned home. As soon as the mill
was out of sight Fanny felt her spirits rise.
They smiled at one another and the
Quartermaster shook the reins on Dolly’s
back.
“That’s over,” thought Fanny.
* * * *
So the decade drew to a close. Esther
and her husband went to live in a dingy
but respectable terrace house at the Glebe,
and there, in the year of revolutions, her
first child was born and christened Phoebe.
Alice followed a year later and the Bardon
quiver was more than full. Esther, by some
miracle, continued to look, think and talk
like a spinster, and Bardon, by another,
kept bankruptcy at bay.
The household at the City-road went on
its way. In his mother’s eyes Lionel grew
in beauty every day; for others he just
grew and not very quickly. Adela thought
him beautiful with his milk-white skin that
showed a tracery of blue veins at temple
and wrist, his fine gold curls and wide hazel
eyes. The Quartermaster thought him
girlish, but did not say so, as he was un'-
willing to blast the unfortunate child’s life.
James ceased very early to be a baby.
For Fanny nothing changed. Day was
added to day and no day mattered very
greatly. She thought that now she would
soon be old and the bitterness of rebellion
would wear off. It was a melancholy
thought that soon she would not even care
that her life was wasted.
The Quartermaster lost a little of his
full-blooded optimism. He saw his world
shrinking. Eighteen-forty-eight was a bad
year and 1849 worse. The population de-
creased almost visibly and trade went with
it. Crowded ships were sailing for the
Californian goldfields almost every week.
He said: “We must find gold, too,” but he
said it without conviction. Fanny marked
the difference in him and was moved to the
reflection that, after all, they had found
happiness in inverse ratio to their strength.
Lionel, who was weakest, was also happiest.
He would always have whatever he wanted,
somebody would reach it down for him.
Maud was satisfied because she was com-
placent and easily pleased. Adela was happy
because she shirked her problems; she
wrapped herself up in Lionel and turned her
face away from the rest of life.
There were fewer dinner parties at the
City-road, fewer visits to the theatre, fewer
new gowns. The whole mechanism of their
world seemed to be slowly running down..
CHAPTER XII.
Gold.
Among the disheartened settlers who left
for the new goldfields in California was
Edward Hargreaves, a farmer of the
Bathurst district. He had owned his farm
and worked it profitably for twenty years
when a succession of bad seasons, 1844-
48. ruined him. He was a man of sanguine
and impatient temper, intelligent and com-
petent. It was very bitter to him to see
his twenty years of hard work laid waste
in five through no fault of his. In dis-
gust he sold his farm for what it would
fetch and joined the general exodus to
California. In the Valley of San Joaquin
. recovered gold at the rate of about
six shillings a day, scarcely enough to keep
stan ation at bay in those expensive times.
He moved on to the Sacramento River and
was washing out his thirty pounds a week
when he astonished his mates by throwing
in his share in the claim and returning to
Australia. He had noticed a certain simi-
larity between the gold-bearing areas of
California and the country surrounding his
farm at Bathurst. It came to him as an
inspiration and a revelation.
In Sydney no one believed in his gold.
1 here had been a whisper of gold now and
then, but famous geologists had looked for
it. and found nothing; was it likely that
this adventurer should be vouchsafed a
revelation while he was working on the
Sacramento? His veiy enthusiasm was
against him.
Hargreaves had practically no money left;
money was tight in Sydney and his friends
unwilling to risk anything, so he had to
borrow a few pounds at an exorbitantly
high interest. Perhaps if he had gone to
James Hyde it might have been different;
their sanguine temperaments would have
found much in common, and Hargreaves
was holding out a hope that would have
made a young man of the Quartermaster
again in those meagre days.
But Hargreaves did not go to the store
in Windmill-street. He gave up hope of
forming an expedition and set out alone on
a seedy and aged horse with the lightest
possible equipment, crossed the Blue Moun-
tains by the carriage road Macquarie had
btult, and on February 11, 1851, came to the
inn at Guyong. Here he made his first
convert. The landlady listened to him with
open mouth, beholding a vision of incredible
riches. The next day she sent her young
son to be Hargreaves’s help and guide.
Hargreaves knew exactly the spot at
which he expected to find gold. The en-
thusiast and the boy rode for half a day
under the burning February sun. They were
exhausted when they reached their goal,
the banks of the Lewis Pond Creek, a
tributary of the Summer Hill. They made
a meal; then Hargreaves took a spade full
of earth from the river bank and washed it
in a shallow tin dish. There was gold in
the bottom of the pan!
Hargreaves spent another eight days pros-
pecting along the banks of the Summer
Hill and the Macquarie and in the Turon
Mountains. Everywhere he found fine gold
in his dish. He knew that the goldfields he
had discovered must be at least seventy
miles long and cover a wide area. One
of his excursions led him as far as Dubbo,
where he startled a friend by riding up to
his homestead and announcing that there
was gold within twenty yards of the door-
step. There was gold—enough to make a
finger ring in memory of a dramatic
moment.
It was now that Hargreaves showed his
quality, showed that he wais not the mounte-
bank people had suspected. He displayed
at once a competence in handling his
advantage which is not usually thought to
go with an enthusiastic nature. His first
step was to call upon Mr. Deas Thomson,
the Colonial Secretary. He showed his
specimens and' asked that the Government
Geologist be sent to verify his discovery.
For himself he asked a reward of £5OO to
cover his borrowings and pay his immediate
expenses. For anything further he was
willing to wait till the worth of the diggings
was proven.
A small cavalcade set out along the
Parramatta-road with Hargreaves and the
geologist at its head—twelve horsemen and
their retinue of pack horses.
The geologist’s report was favorable, and
the fields were opened by Government pro-
clamation. A galvanic shock ran through
the community. In a few hours the news
was all over the city and suburbs. Excited
bakers delivered it with the bread and
hilarious butchers handed it in with the
wrong joint. The six inns of Brickfield Hill
buzzed with it and the Quartermaster in
his counting-house raised his Wellingtonian
nose and snuffed the change of atmosphere.
The Californian discoveries had made men’s
minds as tinder to the rumor of gold.
Energies that had lain dormant for years
flared up and the lethargy of the depression
was gone in a few days.
Long afterwards the Quartermaster met
Hargreaves and had the pleasure of wring-
ing his hand in an elephantine grip and roar-
ing: “My God, sir, this is a pleasure. You’re
the greatest benefactor New South Wales
has ever had and I’m glad to tell you so.
Damn me, but you’re a man of sense, sir.”
He wrote to William at the time: “I
have met Hargreaves and he is a man after
my own heart. Although his black beard
and blue eyes make him look rather like an
Irishman, he is a person of sense and a
sound business man. I consider him a great
patriot as much for the manner in which
he handled his discovery as for the dis-
covery itself.”
The Quartermaster took, off his hat to a
man who could combine patriotism and
profit with such nicety, and he was one of
the first to put his hand in his pocket and
draw out £5O for the citizens’ donation.
Late one evening in early June, William
rode back to the Laburnums, leaving the
Quartermaster at the store.
“What is it, William? What is wrong?”
Adela asked, then wished that she had
not, for William raised his eyebrows and
answered coldly: “Wrong, my dear Adela?
What should be wrong?”
“I beg your pardon, William. I feared
some business trouble might There
is nothing troubling you then?”
William ignored the repeated question
and Adela knew she had transgressed his
most rigid law—that women must not con-
cern themselves in business.
As they rose from dinner William spoke
again, with a visible effort: “Adela my dear,
and Fanny, papa has entrusted me with
some news for you both. We have deter-
mined to extend our business activities to
the goldfields if that should be found desir-
able upon further investigation, and papa
is to go/almost at once to Bathurst and
the fields to make arrangements.”
He expected surprise, excitement, and was
compelled to listen to and to answer eager
questions. Fanny said little, but her face
glowed with a new light that told of her
sympathy with her father’s project. Gold
was in the air. It was impossible to escape
infection with the fever. Adela stopped in
her eager questioning and her face grew
troubled.
“But, William, they say conditions are
terrible there, and the fields are crowded
with the most dreadful men. And he is
quite an old man. Surely it is not for
him to go.”
William flushed darkly and Adela saw
that she had almost for the first time in
her life penetrated the mask of frigid
courtesy behind which he sheltered himself
from any intimacy. But only for a moment.
“You’ll pardon me, my dear Adela; if I
do not discuss our business arrangements
with you.”
“Forgive me, William, I did not mean—”
Adela faltered, wondering how she always
contrived to be in the wrong.
“There is nothing to forgive,” said
William magnanimously. “I have much to
do to-night and shall work in the study
till papa returns.”
William went to the study, but for a
long time he did not work. Adela’s words
rankled; it seemed wrong that his father
should go and that he, the young 'man,
should remain behind. But looking back
on his conversation with his father he could
not see that he was wrong. He had offeree!
to go when he saw that his father was
determined. He had said openly and gener-
ously: “I disapprove, papa. It is only right
that I should be frank. But if you are
determined on this, I am willing to go
and investigate what openings there are.”
“Good God, boy, are you blind?” the
Quartermaster had asked in genuine be-
wilderment. “Can’t you see I want to go?
I wouldn’t be out of a thing like this for
all the king’s horses. I only put it to you
first because it seemed fair to give youth
the first chance, and one of us must stay
behind. But I thank the stars it’s to be
you.”
William, to do him justice, was no coward,
and it humiliated him to feel that his re-
luctance to join the army of gold-seekers
might be so interpreted. He went over
again the grounds of that reluctance, and
satisfied himself anew that they were sound.
“It is madness, papa,” he had argued;
“the news should never have been allowed
to spread. The country has gone wild.
Society will fall to pieces.”
His father had been incredulous.
“It’s the chance of a lifetime, son. For-
tunes for all lying there to be picked up.
I knew there was gold in this country. I
felt it all along—and now it is there for the
asking. The country’s made.”
“You’re wrong, papa,” William persisted.
“No country has ever got rich on gold.
New South Wales—the whole of Australia
—is suited for the wool trade, and it will
go to rack and ruin in no time if we drop
that. Look at what Maud wrote about the
farms around Camden. There’ll not be a
shepherd left in the countryside. There’ll be
nobody to shear a single sheep—unless the
gold has petered out by spring.”
“Petered out! There’s gold here for the
world to have; we’ll be picking it up from
the grass and I must be in it. Why, William
lad, we couldn’t miss a chance like that.”
“I have always thought, papa, that you
believed in every man sticking to his trade
—the cobbler to his last. I think we shall
lose the substance for the shadow if we try
to dig for gold.”
“But we are going to stick to our trade
Just think what those fields will be like!
No food, no necessities—that’s where we’ll
come in. Listen, William. It’s from the
Bathurst paper”—and the Quartermaster
read solemnly and impressively, punctuat-
ing his words with nods of extraordinary
emphasis: “ ‘Flour which ranged from 265.
to 28s. per 1001 b. has been sold for 455.’
That mill was the best piece of business I
ever did, William. ‘Tea and sugar and
almost eveiy eatable commodity have
advanced in almost equal proportions. But
for very extensive supplies now on the way
from Sydney, flour would soon be at "a
famine price, and should a rush take place
from below, as may reasonably be expected,
it is to be hoped that there are capitalists
bold enough to adventure in one of the
safest speculations of the times—the pur-
chase of flour for the supply of this district.’
That’s a challenge to us, William. No
merchant worth his salt could let it pass.
You must see that.”
Warming to his work the Quartermaster
explained his great idea.
“We’ll establish depots and we’ll organise
a chain of stores on all the fields. I’ll
handle that end of it and you can do the
buying and transporting here. It’s the
chance of a lifetime to make big money
and make it quick.”
William had remained unenthusiastic.
“It may be so, papa, but to me it seems
far more important that we should carry
out the work we have already established.
Those two ships are lying at the wharf
still. We can’t get the men to unload them;
half the crew of the Ariadne have deserted
to the fields and we can’t get our cargo
away on her. The Governor says”
“The Governor’s an old woman,” the
Quartermaster interrupted rudely, “and
you’re another. William, you’ve got a son
and heir—two, in fact—and you think so
little of him and his inheritance that you’ll
lose a chance in a thousand lifetimes and
not put out a finger to take it for him.”
Then as he saw William’s face change his
tone softened: “William, lad, we’re not
(Continued on page 58.)


v;
v
1
{n't-
Ufa
■
Plymouth Tourer.
PLYMOUTH
Now, more than ever ,
Plymouth for economy
of operation
Buyers in the lowest priced field
are turning more and more to
Plymouth, for Plymouth gives
an entirely new meaning to
economy with full-size, comfort,
power and safety.
Plymouth offers not merely
economy of gas and oil con-
sumption, greater tyre mileage
and low repair expense, but in
addition:
Economy with Modern
Engineering
Chrysler engineers designed
the Plymouth’s high-compres-
sion engine embodying such
important improvements as
aluminum alloy pistons, large
main bearings, positive pressure
feed lubrication and rubber
engine mountings;
Economy with Safety
Plymouth’s hydraulic four-
wheel brakes give instant, posh
tive stopping in any weather—
another feature possessed by
no other car near this price;
Economy with Power
Plymouth’s powerful engine
assures typical Chrysler pick-up
plus ability to maintain better-
than-average speed with quiet
smoothness;
Economy with Full-Size
Plymouth is the first and only
full-sized car in this price class,
giving full-proportioned seating
room, head room and leg room
for five men or women;
Economy with Comfort
Plymouth’s interiors are far
more spacious with wider,
deeper seats while the balanced
chassis, new type springs and
larger tyres assure exceptional
riding qualities.
Here is a car that goes far beyond
ail previous ideas of economic
cal transportation in the lowest*
priced field-—a car that truly
reveals a new and greater value.
Come, see and drive the Ply*
mouth. We are confident you
will find it a very enjoyable and
a most enlightening experience.
eiaa
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS
New South Wales ... Larke, Neave & Carter, Ltd., Sydney
Victoria Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Ward Motors, Limited, Brisbane
West Australia Wm. Attwood Motors, Ltd., Perth
South Australia .... O. T. Rodda Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
Tasmania Metro Motors Pty., Ltd., Hobart
New Zealand Todd Motor Company, Wellington
New Guinea W. JR. Carpenter & Co., Ltd., Rabaul


RUGBY UNION
NEXT SATURDAY
“ALLILACKS”
V.
New South Wales
CRICKET GROUND
3 P.M.
Early Matches Commencing 12.30 p.m.
ADMISSION: GROUND, 2/-; STAND, 3/6.
CHILDREN: GROUND, 1/-; STAND, 1/6
J. NOSEDA, Secretary.
DO NOT INVEST
YOUR MONEY
IN
FORESTRY BONDS
Until You Have Inspected the Bond Offer
OF
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
PERPETUAL FORESTS LTD.
SUBSCRIBED BOND CAPITAL, £72,610.
THEN DECIDE TO
Keep Your Money in Your Own State
GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL FIGURES COMPARED.
Extract from South Australian Government Report:—
“Plantation A in the South-East shows a volume per acre of 84J$2 super,
feet in 16 years, i.e., average 5277 super, f get yearly growth per acre.”
Extract from New Zealand Conservator of Forests’ Report:—
“Waiotapu State Plantations show a growth per acre of 50,976 super, feet in
18 years, i.e., average 2832 super, feet yearly growth per acre.”
Write To-day for Illustrated Booklet to
Sales Manager, SOUTH AUSTRALIAN PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.,
Bowman Buildings, King William Street, Adelaide.
THE CRESSBROOK PARK SADDLE
******
A HANDSOME SADDLE
DESIGNED TO GIVE
INCREASED COMFORT
AND SECURITY TO
THE RIDER.
THE "CRESSBROOK” has combined flap and
skirt sewn direct on to the seat. This method
gives a narrower, non-chafing grip, and the
shape and position of the pads give exceptional
security when needed. It is a high-grade saddle
in materials and workmanship, and is fitted
with folded-leather girth leathers and solid nickel
stirrups.
Price £l5/15/-
FREIGHT PAID FOR CASH
WITH ORDER TO N.S.W.
RAILWAY STATIONS.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE OF AUSTRALIAN AND
TEXAS SADDLERY,
K’BURRA STOCKWHIPS, BEENIE RUGS, ETC.
Walther & Stevenson, Ltd.
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
mm
K
■
Say it with Hilliers/
Posted die dm they are made
Efeie famous
jQecLßoxoP
GhocohiteS
HILL I ER"S
IF L ■ C 9
162-166 Pitt Street
/ S V~t> N E V
3/
PR.ICES
5/6. 6/; 10/. 12/6.
20/ an.cL 30/
ADD O£S5-
(PATON)
The Community General
Assurance Co., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: 37-39 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches at Goulhurn, Newcastle, Bathurst, Wagga and Manly.
Authorised Capital, £250,000. Subscribed Capital, £97,000.
A RECORD OF ACHIEVEMENT
FOR LAST YEAR:
PREMIUM INCOME £82,000
CLAIMS PAID £48,000
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
This Company was the first Company to reduce the rates, and since the
inception of the Act in July, 1926, have given policy-holders bonuses and
reduction THE SUM OF £40,000, and this Company has
A CASH DEPOSIT OF £lO,OOO WITH THE N.S.W.
TREASURY AS A GUARANTEE OF PAYMENT OF CLAIMS
IN CONNECTION WITH WORKERS’ COMPENSATION.
The success of “The Community General’’ has not been achieved without
a struggle, and has naturally provoked the criticism of our competitors.
To be of value criticism should be impartial and unbiassed.
The opinion of a Competitor is rarely so.
However, a saving of 2/-, 3/-, 4/-, 5/-, 6/-, or more in the £ between the Community
General’s rates and those of the Tariff Companies must be explained away by some means or
other, and our detractors generally fall back on the argument of our “small reserves” compared
to the millions sterling accumulated by the particular Company in which they happen to be
interested (“reserves” which incidentally are often out of all proportion to the amount necessary
for the Company’s volume of business).
WHERE DO THOSE RESERVES COME FROM?
They come out of YOUR POCKET.
Where do those reserves go to ? Sooner or later they generally achieve a happy metamorphosis
Into “share capital.”
Big reserves are consequently of considerable advantage— to the Shareholder —and are the
comfortable proof that for years, YOU, as a policv-holder, have paid, and may be still paving,
UNNECESSARILY HIGH PREMIUMS.
The Assets of the Community General include
THE GOODWILL
THE CONFIDENCE
THE SUPPORT
OF THE COMMUNITY
"The Community General” stands for The Community in General.
"Non Nobis Solum”—"Not merely for ourselves.”
THE COMMUNITY GENERAL IS AN AUSTRALIAN COMPANY—WITH
AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL, AUSTRALIAN MANAGEMENT. SUPPORT
YOUR OWN COUNTRY—AND KEEP THE PROFITS IN AUSTRALIA.
Let us quote you for your risk—if it is a good risk we can save you money.
Fire, Workers’ Compensation, Personal Accident, Burglary, Plate Glass.
Motor Car Guarantee, etc., etc.
WIRE: "Community,” Sydney. TELEPHONE: 8W6562 or 8W6586, or
call at Head Office, 37-39 Pitt Street.
THE COMMUNITY GENERAL ASSURANCE
COMPANY, LIMITED
H. C. COGGINS, Managing Director.


For the Man “On-the-Land
Labor-saving
Aids
Weston's Improved
Differential Chain
Pulley Blocks are
useful on farms or in
garages, factories,
warehouses, etc. These
blocks have malleable
iron frames and cross
heads. They are self-
sustaining. Fitted with
chains for 10ft. lift.
Tested to —
5 cwt 38/-
10 cwt 42/(i
15 cwt 50/-
20 cwt 53/-
30 cwt 72/6
40 cwt £5/2/6
60 cwt £6/10/-
See our Engineers’
Catalogue for other
types of Pulley Blocks.
1
w.z. -
; r \
THE
SEYMOUR POST-
HOLE DIGGER
is made solely for the
purpose of speeding up
the digging of post-
holes. It bores its way
into any soil quickly
and easily. This is
one of the tools that
every man on the land
should have. It pays
for itself on the first
few holes.
in the following sizes:
Size 3 9/6
„ 4 9/6
„ 5 ........ 9/6
„ 6 9/6
„ 7 10/3
„ 8 11/3
„ 9 12/6
„ 10 13/-
In addition to stocking
all kinds of Tools, we are
able to supply many up-to-
date appliances for the
Farmer or Factory.
“RAPCO” FORGES.
A first-class portable forge, definitely superior
to many low-price forges. Machine-cut gear
wheels of 40 to 1 ratio; 64in. fan case gives
a powerful blast. Legs are strong, and the
forge altogether is a sturdy, compact pro-
duction, and unusually good value for the
money. Has been designed for simplicity
and high efficiency. Firepans made of 16-
gauge iron, 18in. and 22in. square and 3in.
deep.
18in. pans, £3/7/6; 22in. pans, £4/5/-
w
Only 106
A sturdy “Ixion”
Breast Drill, 17Jin.
long, and complete
with a three-jaw chuck.
Capacity of chuck, Jin.
Two speeds. All gears
are machine cut. Strong
Malleable Iron Frame.
Hardwood handles.
Weighs over 6lb.
Strong and durable,
this splendid drill will
give a lifetime of
service. Order at once.
Satisfaction guaran-
teed. Price, 10/6 each.
Postage 2/-
High-grade Steel-
twist Drills for use
with Breast Drill.
Send in this coupon for a copy of
our latest catalogue.
NAME
ADDRESS
M£PKerson§]
Ptoprictahi limited Vw S
“DEPENDABLE GOODS SINCE I 860.”
51-65 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
582-592 Collins Street, Melbourne.
116-30 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Pumps for all
Purposes
tilt
h* BPASs'fl
CYI»NOE«>i
MYERS HOUSE
PUMP.
Superior in design to
any other make ; gives
a continuous flow of
water. Handle can
be placed at any angle.
Double-acting, com-
pactly built, and very
powerful. Tapped on
top for tin. pipe,
through which the
water is conveyed to
tank.
No. 201—3 in. brass
cylinders, l|in, pipe.
Price ....... £3/10/-
No. 253—Still, brass
cylinders, ljin. pipe.
Price X 4
HYDRAULIC
RAMS
will pump automati-
cally day and night. No
upkeep, no attention.
Consult our experts
regarding the instal-
lation of one for your
needs.
No. 2 gives 4 to 2
gallons per iri nute.
Costs, £0
No. 3 gives 11 to 4
gallons per minute.
Costs, £7/5/-
No. 4 gives 3 to 7
gallons per minute.
Costs £B/10/-
No. 5 gives 6 to 14
gallons per minute.
£l2
Other particulars on
application.
SEMI-ROTARY
PUMPS.
Size.
Discharge Pipe,
Inches.
Capacity per Minute,
Gallons.
Prices.
ŵ
DOMINION FORESTS LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 26 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH.
NOMINAL CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
SPECIAL AFFORESTATION-ASSURANCE BOND ISSUE.
OUR BOND, BOUGHT FOR £3O on very easy terms, provides:—
ONE FREEHOLD ACRE planted with 650 Pinus insignia trees, planted
m N.Z., and a
FREE INSURANCE POLICY FOR £250 FOR 10 YEARS.
NO BETTER PROPOSITION OFFERED.
WRITE TO-DAY FOR PROSPECTUS. COVER THAT DEATH RISK.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Judson Sees It Through.
BY ALBERT DORRINGTON.
TH'E Araluen had picked up her gaug-
ways and was well out of Colombo
Harbor. It was going to be a hot run
to Fremantle. All the well-known figures
were on board, including little Humphrey
.Tudson and his three hide trunks. Humphrey
had noted many old faces climbing the gang-
ways, the faces of men he had known in
Sydney, wool-brokers, stock-breeders from
Queensland and the Downs, with here and
there a moist-browed theatrical agent trail-
ing the company’s props aboard.
And there was Zilla, the fortune-teller,
buzzing along the alleyways like a fat queen
bee. Despite the fact that Zilla had been
previously rejected by the Commonwealth
immigration officers as an undesirable, she
was making another effort to land, knowing
that her expenses would be more than cov-
ered after working the ship both ways.
“My brother Amelio keepa da shop in
Owstralia,” she piped. “He senda for me.
Someone speak for Zilla, who was trown
out, one year to-morrow. Wc shall now
see if one man on da quay stoppa Zilla from
her just right. There-a will be Mussolini to
hear from. Signore, there-a will be war!”
Undesirable or otherwise, Zilla made her
to-and-fro trips profitable enough among the
easy-going passengers, eager to listen to her
flattering prophecies. Even old Jimmy
McNeil had crossed her palm with gold when
she told him that his classy Maranoa would
win the Melbourne Cup. As everyone on
board the Araluen knew that Jimmy ate,
slept and woke with Maranoa on his mind,
it was an easy one for Zilla.
On board also was Lizzie O’Gorman,
whose husband lent money at ten-twenty-
fifty per cent, without risk to himself or
his heirs. Lizzie had her suite amidships,
and was returning to Australia alone. Her
cabin-trunks were packed with bargains from
the Rue de la Paix.
Humphrey Judson was short and round
as a Pickwick fat boy, was probably forty
and a hopeless munclier of chocolates and
tinfoil sweets. It was difficult to assess
him. He had been known to leave a profit-
able game of poker in the for’rd saloon to
romp with the kids in the steerage. He had
been marked down as a crook by many
travellers; but in ten years of constant
journeyings not a single complaint had been
registered against him. The professional
spielers avoided him in sheer disgust, for he
lost little and won only small sums, hardly
enough to cover his generous tips to the
cabin and table stewards.
This night he listened to the voice of
Zilla fluting among the honeymoon couples
and spinster tourists. “Lcta me see your
hand, my preeta leddy. Leta Zilla breeng
the magic eye to your preeta hand. I tella
fortune to II Duse, our Benito, an’ alia da
preeta ladies of Napoli. I discover dreams
of happiness in your life. Zilla from Napoli
will gife you a magic chart. It will show
love an’ -danger; it will show where-a der
is money” an’ sickness !”
Judson sank with a despairing sigh into
a deck-chair. “Gets away with a Premier’s
salary on a low racecourse tale like that!”
he lamented, half aloud.
Within a sheltered corner, away from the
glare of the deck lights, a young man lay
stretched in a cane chair: Beside him were
a slim pair of crutches. He was cheer-
fully fragile, and responded to Judson’s fre-
quent sympathetic glances with boyish
grins. He was accompanied by a wistful-
eyed girl, tall and pretty as a northern
poppy. Yet to Judson’s professional scrutiny
the scorching breath of a desert had faintly
tanned her cheeks.
Towards this -frail couple Zilla, the gipsy,
pirouetted. “Telia your fortune, my pretta
gentleman. You crossa my palm wit a
leetle money. I tella you of da fever an’
da misfortune you meet among da cotton-
growers. Dey taka your money en’ your
preeta leetle wife’s savings. Dey turn you
adrift on da desert when you haf no more.
Your fortune, my pretta gentleman?”
Judson moved in his chair uneasily at
sound of a crisp bank-note rustling in the
young man's hand. His voice sounded thin
and cheerful above the babel of noises as he
placed the money in the gipsy’s palm. “For
the love of Mike, Zilla, let us alone ! The
fever and the cotton's true enough. Try and
pick a winner for the Caulfield and keep it
to yourself.” A soft titter ran along the
deck.
A steward passing nodded briskly in
Judson’s direction. “Young Mr. Chatterton
Shirley, sir! Picking up wonderfully in
the sea air!” Bending over Judson’s chair,
liis voice fell to a whisper. “Cleaned up
for twenty thousand pounds! He’s broke,
poor chap, and different from the young Mr.
Chatterton Shirley that treated us all so
well when he went out to the Soudan.”
If Chatterton Shirley still bubbled with
boyish humor, his slender, dreamy-eyed girl-
wife was the kind of angel that Humphrey
Judson imagined every sick and broken-down
kid should possess for a wife. Much better
than a mother, he told himself. Nina
Shirley was a wife and pal to this fever-
racked, rug-covered boy in the deck lounge.
They chuckled over things like two children
at, a fair. And this four hundred feet of
saloon deck beat all the fairs and zoos
between Cairo and Cockatoo Island.
At night Judson observed Nina Shirley
enter the cardroom and take her place
among the staid women bridge-players. Two
shillings a hundred. He watched Nina’s
play from the angle of a professional tourist
who had seen fortunes won and lost in a
couple of sittings.
She played well and with every nerve in
her young body. She played just a trifle
grimly, because, as Judson was aware, they
wanted money.
He met her one midnight on the saloon
stairs a few days before they reached Fre-
mantle.
“Any luck?” Judson inquired, halting for
a mornent to break the ash from his cigar.
She ; looked at him quickly, her eyes aglow
with excitement. “I’ve won twenty pounds!”
she told him in a whisper. “Twenty little
golden goblets!”
“Good!” Judson sighed pleasantly,
although he was past the period when the sug-
gestion of a twenty-pound scoop could affect
his pulse. “Stick to the little party you're
playing with. Don’t get lured to the big-
money tables where Lizzie O’Gorman deals
the aces. And don’t play with those Queens-
land squatters,” he advised in a passing
whisper. “They’re alligators and eat babes!”
Nina’s hand fell lightly on his arm. There
was swift understanding in her eyes. A
moment later she was racing in the direction
of the woollen rug and the cane lounge-chair.
“Poor little beggar! Gone to tell him of
her luck! ’Struth! The crows’ll get her
sooner or later!” Judson murmured, passing
to his cabin.
All day the passengers had been prepar-
ing for the costume dance that was to take
place on the big promenade deck. From
nearly every cabin amidships came the sound
of feminine laughter and excitement.
Judson observed the purser pass hurriedly
along the corridor and enter the stateroom
set apart for Mrs. Lizzie O’Gorman. Some-
thing had happened ! A few moments later
he appeared in the corridor, tense-browed
and fiddling with his notebook and pencil.
The sound of Lizzie O’Gormnn's voice
reached Judson in a sobbing under-breath.
Stewards came hurriedly from nowhere
and departed. Judson took soundings.
At G p.m. Mrs. O’Gorman had taken her
jewels from the purser’s custody with the
intention of wearing them at the dance. She
had put them in a drawer, and was called
away for only a few minutes by a lady
member of the dance committee. Returning
to her stateroom, she found the jewels gone!
Among the missing collection were five
emerald and ruby rings, a s&pphirc pendant
and a tiara of diamonds of rare brilliance
and color. A recent valuation had set their
market price at fifteen thousand pounds!
Judson knew Lizzie as a woman of Avealth
and accustomed to the yearly run home. A
big rawboned person of fifty-five, with the
jaw of a cruiser-weight boxer, she spent
little or no time in the land that had lifted
O’Gorman to his present state of glittering
affluence.
“Keep it quiet,” the purser was saying;
“no use bleating it up and down the ship.
Plenty of time between here and Adelaide
to go through all the spielers’ cabins. The
stuff hasn’t left the ship and won’t if we
keep our heads.”
“Fifteen thousand pounds!” Humphrey
Judson took a grip of himself. Yet, judg-
ing by some of the jewel collections nipped
from the dressing-tables of travelling cele-
brities, the valuation was not excessive.
With a handful of caramels in his pocket,
Judson took a turn up and down the pro-
menade. Nina Shirley and Chatterton were
resting in a sheltered corner. In another
hour the dancers would take possession of
the deck. H'e halted beside the cane lounge.
“Feeling better?” he inquired with genuine
interest,
The young cotton-grower shook himself
into an upright position, and accepted a cara-
mel with a boyish grin from the irrepressible
Humphrey.
“I shall go in for some kind of light farm-
ing,” the youngster confided, without answer-
ing Judson direct. “The Soudan was no
place for me. I’ll give Aussie a show now.”
“And I used to dream of lions” —Nina
held out her tiny hand for a caramel —“in
that awful Soudan.”
“Always a sign of luck to dream of a
lion,” Judson told her seriously. “Lions
always bring luck. Elephants get you into
trouble. I lost five pounds at poker one
night on account of an elephant dream I had.
Wish a few healthy lions would come and
cheer me up to-night!”
“Oh, let’s talk about farms !” Nina laughed.
“Chattel-ton is really longing to settle in
South Australia.”
“Farms have to be bought," the young
invalid sighed; “I'm such a crock it will
be months before I can earn the price of
my milk!”
At the first sign of the dancers trooping
up from the dining-hall Judson stole to a
less-frequented part of the deck. The night
was blue at the length of one’s arms, the
sea a mirror of the unutterable, star-gemmed
sky. The ship was a living well of per-
fumes, of familiar boronia and oils of yas-
meen, that floated up from the red-carpeted
cabins and corridors. In the shadow a voice
was softly prattling.
“Leta Zilla tella your fortune, my preeta
lady—Zilla of Napoli, who has the protec-
tion of the great Benito.”
Judson drew breath sharply as he turned
from the shelter of No. 5 lifeboat and con-
fronted the gipsy queen.
“Come, read my hand, Zilla,” he greeted.
“Here, by this boat: it’s quite secluded.”
Zilla whirled on him, her dark eyes prob-
ing his unemotional face. “I told the preeta
gentleman his fate long, long ago,” she in-
toned with swift side-glances along the deck.
“You will be vera happy”
“After you’ve shown me that little lot
from O’Gorman’s dressing-table!” he inter-
rupted in a whisper. “Then we’ll talk about
the price of caramels. Have one, Zilla? It
will stop that tickling in your throat.”
Zilla remained transfixed for an instant,
like one staring at naked steel. Her eyes
blazed. “You fat crook!” she said in an
undertone. “You fat crook !”
“That’s me,” Judson admitted pleasantly.
“Only you needn’t say it twice.”
“You peeg !” Her fingers struck like talons
at his coat-sleeve. “Feedin’ on da work of
others. Feedin’ on da poor wimmens who
take a few twinklets for herself! Peeg,
peeg, peeg!”
Judson unrolled a caramel. “Let’s come
down to the brassware, Zilla ! My game in
life and your game in life. Try any of your
capers on this deck and I’ll have you
pinched.”
“Peenched!” she exclaimed. “Who
peencli ?”
“A fellow named Moriarty, from the water
police. “He’ll be waiting at the Outer Harbor
(Continued on page 57.)


Banking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capita. £5.000.000
oapitai I aid Up and Reserves .. . . £8.369.965
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1938.. £18,623,153
Directors:
Sir MARK SHELDON, K.8.E., Chairman.
FRANK N. YARWOOD; H. It. I.YSAGHT, 0.8. E. ;
GEORGE J. SI.Y. IX.D. ; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER: C. M. C. SHANNON.
CHIEF INSPECTOR: W. G. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH : Gl» Bisliopcgnto, E.C.JL
The BANK is represented by 1 86 Branches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, with Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares 1,875,009
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 010.210
Ordinary Shares .. .. . . 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,732,525
GRANTS DRAFTS SuySSf-JS;
Gieat Biitain and Ireiand. and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS Sid'T'nL"
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
UNITED
THE
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED ISG2.
Head Office:
GEORGE U HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Fire lnsurances f| , < i on ail classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
Marine Risks
Accident and
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, See. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cu<i
If you havs
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office?: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ẁ
XTbc Dominion.
Nezv Zealand’s
National Morning Daily.
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion” is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
AH Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern Is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Shipping, etc.
I
n
r
W 3
iF
i *
*7® Canadas^
UNIJEDsTATES
Europe
across Pacific
andJVcrfttAmerica
WHICHEVER your destination, the routes of the
mighty Union Company Liners pave the ocean-
way with golden stepping stones.... the Sunny Pacific
Isles. Voyagers to Vancouver call at Auckland, Suva
and far-famed Honolulu. Or, travelling via Wellington
to San Francisco, you see Raratonga and Tahiti, vivid
wonderlands of tropical grandeur. The Union Company’s
Combined Service enables fortnightly trans-Pacific
sailings from each end, and tourists bound leisurely for
Europe may book for the complete journey to insure
ahead their comfort and convenience. Particulars from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY,
247 George Street, Sydney;
59 William Street, Melbourne, C.l.
«I 1
■
I
m
i
&>/
m
m
A VISIT TO JAVA
(The Garden of the East)
Seven weeks’ wonderful tour, via Brisbane, Queens-
land Ports, Thursday Island, Torres Strait & Darwin,
including 14 days’ escorted motor trip through Java.
Leaving Sydney on the 7th August, 1929, by the
magnificent steamer
“MARELLA ” 7500 TONS
Swimming Bath, Gymnasium, Deck Cabins, Verandah
Cafe, etc.
First-class inclusive round fare covering all
expenses—Steamer trip, Hotels, Motor-cars,
Guides, Tips, etc.:
From Melbourne £135 0 0
From Sydney £129 0 0
From Brisbane £l2B 10 0
BURNS, PHI LP&> COMPANY LIP.
SYDNEY AND BRANCH OFFICES
YOU’LL WANT TO STAY LONGER
at
HAWAII
HAWAII
HAWAII
Less than two weeks away from Sydney, in
sunny Hawaii, you can be as lazy as you like.
A few days’ loafing and you’ll feel a new zest
for golf—new vim in the morning plunge on
a lovely beach where the water never gets
cold—-new appetite at the numerous hotels or
restaurants made for your holiday entertain-
ment. Inter-Island Cruises. Visit Kilauea
Volcano. Come then, wile away happy holiday
hours at
HAWAII, HAWAII, HAWAII
The round steamer trip from Sydney costs but
£75 up, first-class; or £55 up, second-class —-
and first-class Hotel Expenses range from 12/-
to £3 per day with meals.
Fullest particulars from all Travel or Steam-
ship Offices or from this Office direct.
HAWAII TOURIST BUREAU,
Dept. 26, Box 162788, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
tßunic .... 12,500 tons, July 10
*Ascanius . . 10,000 „ July 22
t Euripides . 15,000 „ Aug. 6
*Nestor ... 15,000 „ Sept. 9
fDemosthenes 11,500 „ Sept. 28
. . 18,500 ~ Oct. 26
*First class only. fFirst and Third class.
i“Cabin" class only.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson Ltd.) Jolnt
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd. j Agents
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
e
£7,500,000
5,900,000
7,500,000
£20,900,0q0
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1928, £88,982,585.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
554 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji Papua
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.’
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of - Credit ‘ issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Shipping, etc,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.;
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping for outports).
FOR BRISBANE. MACKAY, TOWNSVILLE, CAIRNS
(Transhipping for outports).
Splendid Cheap Service
Via Suez Canal
FAST OIL BURNERS
In conjunction with Sailings via South Africa.
Excellent Menu. Late Dinner.
Fares to London from £3B.
P. 8 0. BRANCH SERVICE
For particulars apply
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Box 513 AA, 5 O’Connall St., Sydney.
’Phone : 86701
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—Every Saturday evening ; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. YVOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
PARES. —
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/8/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CIIALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart Parked
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEYV ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDAnT PARKER LI MITE:)
ColllnsStreet, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S
ONLY PICTORIAL DAILY
%
è
é
NEWS PICTORIAL
ALL THE NEWS!
ALL THE PICTURES!
Must be included in any advertising
campaign seeking to cover the great
Central State.
SALES INCREASING RAPIDLY.
HEAD OFFICE: REGISTER NEWS-
PAPERS, LIMITED, Grenfell Street,
Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative: F. Thompson,
Melbourne Herald Office, 133 a
Pitt Street, Sydney.
Melbourne Representative: G. N.
Bednall, The Herald Office, Flin-
ders Street. Telephone: C 4643.
If any illustration in The Bulletin tabes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original, ,


%i*k/
Whitest 1
Purest
Best
ê
These are not idle words, they are
backed by the largest Gin Distillers in
the World and guaranteed by a repu-
tation enjoyed and jealously guarded
for over 150 years ! Gordon’s Gin
is produced in London, England, by
the original process of distillation from
the original recipe, the secrets of
which belong to the HOUSE of
GORDON and have been handed
down through generations ! It is for
this reason Gordon’s Gin has the
largest sale at Home and throughout
the World, having no rival for Purity
or Quality.
G©ifdl © m v g>
Guaranteed distilled
in London, England
GIN
Gordons
dry Gin
©
t NUAR 0
&«4T.tt<o .« IX>"DO* |
TAWQUERAY. GORDON AC9 t J J
fmini ;^*g»TjaL#>M»}
The Heart of a
Good Cocktail
BY APPOINTMENT.
The Largest
Gin Distillers
in the World
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
ë
WEED
TYRE CHAINS
will give your car traction.
They “grip and hold.”
Look for the name “WEED”
on every hook.
Order from your dealer ♦
WEED TYRE CHAINS
4036
at Adelaide. “H’e’ll give you a free ride
up town and throw you into penal servitude
you old bat!”
Zilla shrank into the shadow of the boat,
warding him off with her jewelled hands.
‘•I want to see those rings and the tiara,
Zilla!” He waved his finger. “I saw you
slip into her cabin the moment she answered
the call of the dance committee. I must
say, Zilla, you busted open that drawer like
a sledge-hammer hitting an egg.”
Zilla shook herself until her ear-rings
trembled. Rage seemed to blind her for an
instant. He stood away, watching her
closely.
“I’ve seen you take money from those poor
women in the steerage,” he told her. “First
day you came aboard you snapped a pound-
note from Chattcrton Shirley—and it was
damn-near his last! I’m no saint, Zilla, but
I tell you you’ve worked this ship like a
bushranger.”
Zilla’s rage quickly abated; her lips
appeared to be repeating an incantation. She
made a gesture in the direction of her cabin.
“I go feefty-feefty in the share-up,” she
said suddenly. “Come along, an’ look out
for da bunk-eyed steward-cat. She follow
me here an’ dere. Come!”
Inside the cabin Zilla took from the lining
of a rug five emerald and ruby rings, a
sapphire pendant and a diamond tiara of
exceptional brilliance.
“Dees woman O’Gorman sent fora ine
to cut da cards an’ tell her fortune while
she dressed fora da dance,” Zilla explained
as .Tudson contemplated the jewels in her
hand.
“Sent for you!” He regarded her thought-
fully, shook his head as she offered to place
some of the gems in his hand. “They are
wonderful,” he said under his breath. “But
you are a great artist, Zilla.”
“You will take half?” she persisted, thrust-
ing the five emerald and ruby rings towards
his pocket.
Judson backed out of the cabin as though
he had been offered a pet snake. “Sorry,
Zilla; to tell the truth, I’ve always found
rubies unlucky. You are a great artist,
Zilla !”
“Ees that all?” Zilla faced him in the
cabin doorway, eyes blazing, chin out-thrust.
She had been trapped into a confession of
her guilt. Her long, henna-stained fingers
dug into the folds of her dress.
Judson held up a warning hand. “Don’t
worry about your bit of steel, Zilla. I’m
not a policeman. You’re welcome to all
you’ve taken. I give you my word.”
He was gone in a flash, and soon was
back in his own cabin.
* * * *
The stewards heard Judson singing in the
bathroom shortly after daybreak. H’e
appeared on deck among the groups of early
promenaders, his cheeks aglow. There had
been a short stay overnight at Fremantle.
Owing to a strike no one had gone ashore.
“Morning, Mrs. Shirley. How’s the boy?”
he greeted on the saloon stairs as the crowd
trooped in to breakfast.
“Happy as a baby,” she told him with a
laugh. Then in a lower voice: “There was
a robbery in one of the cabins last night.
There were police on the gangway while
we tied up at Fremantle. A lady’s jewels,
I believe.”
“Serve her right!” Judson said quietly.
“Some people treat their jewels like dirt.
Actually I’ve known stewards rescue pearls
and sapphires from the dustpan! A bath-
room is simply a place where women leave
their rings and watches and bangles.”
After breakfast Judson sought a chair
adjoining the one occupied by Lizzie O’Gor-
man. She favored him with a scowl as he
stretched himself contentedly in the brilliant
sunshine. In the last eight years she had
never fathomed his purpose in life. He
lived at the best Australian hotels, and was
favorably known to the manager at her bank
in Adelaide.
“Morning, Mrs. O’Gorman,” he murmured.
The seats beside them were as yet unoccu-
pied. It was too soon after breakfast.
Lizzie looked big and florid as she wal-
lowed in the health-giving air. She glanced
steadily at Judson’s figure, his immaculate
cravat, his creased pants, his patent-leather
shoes resting on the bottom rail. Her hard,
blue eye travelled from the point of the shin-
ing toecap to the cigar between his fingers.
“What is your line, little man?” she in-
quired at last.
Judson inhaled a chestful of sea air with
gusto. The pink bloom on his cheek was
really reminiscent of Pickwick fat boys.
“My line, Mrs. O'Gorman, is pleasure. I
watch the Pacific gulls and the travelling
turtle of both sexes. There’s a lot of fun
on a ship if people will only take a look
round. Only last night,” he declared in a
confidential tone, “while crew and passen-
gers were talking of the strike at Fremantle,
I had the pleasure of handling your lost
jewels.”
Lizzie O’Gorman seemed to gather herself
into a bolt-upright position to look at Jud-
son.
“You what?” she cried. “You handled
my stolen jewels!”
“Seven pieces in all,” he assured her
blandly. “Stuff from the Rue Kamel, Cairo:
value about one hundred piastres! And
that’s that, if I may say so.”
Very slowly and with a painful effort at
self-control Lizzie O'Gorman subsided into
her chair. A clammy dew gathered on hex-
forehead. For several moments her face
was twisted.
“You damned snifter!” she said at last.
“What’s your game?”
“Watching the turtles,” he assured her
with increasing good humor. “The wonder
is.” he added meditatively, “that even old
Zilla was taken in by such rubbish. It
wouldn’t deceive a child.”
A frozen silence followed his declaration.
One or two passengers fell into their accus-
tomed chairs. The purser went past, halted
near them undecidedly, changed his mind and
then hurried for’ard.
Judson followed the purser’s movements
with a show of interest. “That fellow,” lie
said in a guarded undertone, “signed your
declaration of loss and your claim on the
Assurance Corporation for the
thousand pounds. He attested
your jewels had been stolen
written a lB l ta^ n from llis eharge. That
, declaration and claim went ashore
last night with the mails. The purser is
ather a decent sort,” he went on steadily.
“But he didn’t suspect when he signed the
declaration that the real jewels he brought
from the ship’s strongroom are still in your
keeping. He doesn’t know that you put a
fistful of brass and glass where Zilla could
steal them when ydu sent for her to come
to your cabin.”
Lizzie O’Gorman pounded her knee with
a clenched fist. “Shut up!” she ordered
savagely. “I’m thinking.”
“If you think from now till the day of
judgment you won’t alter the fact that
you’re trying to swindle an insurance com-
pany out of fifteen thousand pounds. I’ve
seen a few good men fall down on these
easy-looking schemes that creep into people's
heads at night after the wine and
the music. Instead of proving a short-cut
to Easy-street they end in a waggon ride
to gaol.”
Lizzie O’Gorman lay back in her chair
breathing in stifled sobs. Her red face had
become ashen. Judson’s voice fell like soft
whip-cuts on her senses.
“The danger-point lies in your declaration
of loss. You assume that this fat flop of
a gipsy Zilla will disappear with your bogus
jewels. Nonsense! They’ll search her like
a common pickpocket when she’s going
ashore.”
“And then?” came from the huddled-up
Lizzie in the deck-chair.
Judson grinned as he drew his patent-
leather shoes from the rail. “The insurance
detectives will be on to your little scheme
like starving bees. Zilla will squeal for all
she’s worth when they rip that stolen junk
from the lining of her rug.”
“What—what Avould you do?” She almost
choked, unable to bear the silence that fol-
lowed his warning.
Judson shook his head. “If you try talk-
ing to Zilla she’ll take fire and yell to the
purser and passengers. And when the purser
suspects the trick you’ve played on him- he’ll
lead you down the gangway into the arms
of Nobby Jukes from the Adelaide Police
Commissioner’s office. You won’t like Nobby,
Mrs. O’Gorman. He’s spent his life among
insurance swindlers. He’ll be waiting on the
gangway.”
A stifled word escaped Lizzie O’Gorman.
All her life she had played the big bluff
game. The scheme to rob the insurance
people had come as an inspiration. It looked
so simple. Yet, with the cold logic of facts
issuing from this glossy, pink-cheeked little
crook beside her, she saw, she had been a fool
to tempt Zilla with the bogus gems. She
realised too late that there were other ways
she might have adopted to substantiate the
fact of her loss. There had never been any
need to drag in this wandering gypsy. Lizzie
O’Gorman clenched her fists.
“Can’t you give me a tip, little man?”
she begged, as Judson rose to go. “There’s
nothing of the. policeman about you, after
all,” she added with an attempt at flattery.
“You’ve helped many a lame dog in your
day.”
He turned on her slowly and then looked
at his watch. “Lord, be merciful!” he said
under his breath. “It's this yellow-faced
Zilla that’s going to put you in the waggon.
Your written demand for compensation is
now on its way to Adelaide.” Judson stared
hard at the glittering expanse of Avater and
shook his head. “A ship’s a prison,” he
told her. “The music is coming, and you’ll
have to stand up!”
* * * *
The Araluen reached the Outer Harbor
on time. It was midday, Avith the usual
crowd of loiterers watching the vessel’s
movements from the distant pier. Every-
one was going ashore.
Zilla was squeezed among a group of pas-
sengers on the upper-deck. Her solitary
cabin-bag and rug had been cleverly sand-
wiched between piles of shore-going trunks
and wraps.
Judson, standing near the funnel-stays,
glanced earnestly at the pier. Beside him,
leaning on his crutches, was Chatterton Shir-
ley. Nina with him.
Judson regarded them thoughtfully. The
boy had been the victim of a gang of foreign
land-jobbers. Broken in health, he had
been cast adrift to take his chance on the
Avhee] of life. Heigho !
“We’re sorry to leave the ship,” Nina said
with a sigh. “It was a temporary home, at
least.”
Judson discovered that they were making
for the Gawler Hotel, where they hoped to
rest for a couple of days until Nina found
a cheaper place.
Judson remembered suddenly that his
walking-stick and umbrella had been left
below. A soft voice hailed him in the cor-
ridor.
“Hi, little man, are you going ashore?”
Lizzie O’Gorman peeped from the curtains
of her stateroom-door, beckoning desperately.
“I’m off.” he told her brusquely. “Can’t
take any chances.”
“Stay awhile,” she begged. “Do me a
favor and take this ashore.” She indicated
a small parcel on her cabin table.
Judson drew away, apprehension in his
movements. “Nobby Jukes and a couple of
plain-clothes men are taking the air on the
wharf. You might get past,” he added with
a shrug. “One of these days a camel will
get through the eye of the needle. -Anyway,
1 Avish you luck!”
Lizzie clutched her hands in an agony
of despair as the tender bumped alongside.
In a few moments the detectives would be
on board seeking her out.
“Listen,” she pleaded as he moved away.
“I don’t want to throAV my beautiful jewels
through the port window. Do the detec-
tives know r you?”
“As a gentleman only. But I’m not
ready to Avalk into trouble on that account.”
“For pity’s sake, listen! My jewels are
worth twenty thousand anywhere. What
kind of a man are you to see a hunted
Avoman throAV the price of a children’s hos-
pital into the sea?”
Judson waited to allow a couple of stew-
ards to pass. When they had gone iie faced
her quickly. “I’ll take the stuff ashore,” he
announced. “But you’ll first hand me a
cheque for two thousand pounds.”
Her eyes blazed. “I’m trusting you with
the parcel,” she snapped. “You may demand
your own terms for the service you’ve done
—after we get past Jukes and the others”
(Continued on next page.)


You cannot
buy better
Underwear
than
ē
WOLSEY
PURE WOOL UNDERWEAR
You
should
also see
WOLSEY
LUSTRAL
Art. Silk Underwear
and Hosiery.
WOLSEY
SPORTSMAN
Knitted Outerwear for
Women, Pullovers.
Pure Wool Stockings
for Women, Half Hcse
for Men and } Hose
and Socks for Children.
Go to your dealer’s
and ask to see Wolsey
Pure Wool Underwear.
Compare it with any other
make and you will realise
that it stands alone for quality
and value ! Buy it and wear
it and know the luxurious
comfort for which Wolsey
Pure Wool Unshrinkable
Underwear is famous the
world over !
Made in England by
WOLSEY LTD., LEICESTER.
WOLSEY LTD., 316, Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
An Ideal Winter Home —The Most Sheltered Spot on the Harbor, with Private Beach and
Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service. Spacious Grounds
and Garage Accommodation.
Winter Tariff from 4j| guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS. DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes’ trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines).
HEADACHES HEAVINESS
INDIGESTION
Eno will combat
these symptoms of
faulty elimination
We’ve all experienced it—for it happens to everyone
sometimes. This getting up in the morning tired,
headachy, dizzy, with a bad taste in the mouth. 1 hese
are usually signs of constipation, often unsuspected, but
nevertheless dangerous to ignore.
Eno’s “Fruit Salt” deals with these “ills of civilisation”
in much the same way that regular exercise, fresh air
and simple food would do. For Eno prompts the most
important of the bodily functions to work dutifully and
to time. Eno removes the waste and poisons of yester-
day from the system, safely, naturally and thoroughly.
Yet Eno is so mild you can give it to any child. Follow
this golden rule of family health, proved for sixty
years; a glass of Eno’s “Fruit Salt”—sparkling and
refreshing—first thing every morning.
ENO’S
"FRUIT SALT"
VM.Mv'.i-J./
o
£
!^N
only by
£. G &no £td„
SBondon Gngland
Sales <sR?cnts :
ftp l * (British (Karold
(Ritchie & Go. £td.
Sydney, cPV.S.RsD,
going to quarrel, but it’s got me mad to
hear the way these officials, and the
squatters, too, talk about the greatest chanoe
the colony’s ever had. You know yourself
the people have been drifting away frdm
here to the gold diggings in California.
Now they’ll come from the ends of the
earth to us. England’ll send us no more
convicts—you can’t send convicts to a
country thick with gold; it’ll do more for
us than forty anti-transportation leagues—
but the best blood she has will pour in
and be glad of the chance. It’ll make us
a nation, not a dump for rascals. Now
let’s get down to busines& and work it all
out.”
William had known resistance to be use-
less. It was impossible, too, under the spell
of his father’s enthusiasm, not to feel some
sense of the golden prospects before them.
The ordinaiy business of the store was for
the time suspended, coastal trade in abey-
ance. Crews were deserting their ships and
making for the fields, their captains in
many instances going too. Ships came
almost daily into the harbor but few sailed
from it, for no labor could be secured to
unload, and reload them. Whaling and
sealing were almost wiped out; the adven-
ture of gold digging had an irresistible
appeal for the hardbitten whaling crews.
The city itself would soon be deserted.
Professional men of all classes, clerks,
mechanics and laborers were feeling the
lure of gold too strong to resist, and were
hastening across the Blue Mountains to
Ophir or to the Turon. Whole streets of
houses were being sold for a mere song.
William had already turned his thoughts to
the speculative profits to be made by buying
these and holding them till the inevitable
reflux to the city sent prices and rents
soaring to the skies. Left in control of the
business, he reflected now, he should cer-
tainly develop it along these lines.
The last consideration, the increased re-
sponsibility for the control of the business
that would devolve on him, unconsciously
but surely did as much as anything to recon-
cile William to this new and alarming
change in their lives He prepared to enter
into arrangements energetically. Only deep
down in his heart still rankled the thought
that it was his part to go, his father’s to
stay. He tried once with unconscious
sophistry to lend a more heroic color to
his inaction. The police force, the night
watchmen, the other guardians of law and
order were also being tempted away by the
glitter of gold, aigcl it was feared that the
city would be left unprotected.'
“It is hardly safe for the women and
children to be left unprotected. Some
must stay to guard them,” said William.
“Not only have the police forces been
reduced, but so many of the respectable
citizens have gone too that the city will
be handed over to roguery of all kinds.”
“It, might be so,” answered the Quarter-
master drily, “but that all the rogues will
go, too.”
But there was little time for thought or
argument of any kind in the rush and bustle
of those days. The Quartermaster was
eager to be off at once. It was difficult to
imagine that he was now in hfe sixty-fourth
year. Always strong and vigorous, the
excitement of his prospective adventure on
the fields gave him a second youth, a new
energy. William as always was forced to
admire his father in action,
There was much to be arranged. The
Quartermaster was to ride by stages to
Bathurst, leading a packhorse laden with
immediate necessities. More waggons and
draught horses were to be bought and pro-
visions acquired as cheaply as possible,
Fortunately the mill had its contracts with
the farmers for wheat quite secure. The
waggons had to be loaded with provisions
and equipment, and were to follow as
rapidly as possible. The first loads would be
speculative, but the Quartermaster knew
pretty well what, would bo needed. He had
- seen some °, ® earlier gold-seekers lea\ -
j n S Sydney, their sole equipment earned
’ n their hands or packed on their backs,
bare necessities oi lde iood, the
means oi preparing it, can\ as tents and
blankets ior shelter and warmth, anti simple
equipment for the digging operations—
would be certain to be needed. Later he
would have to arrange to send word to
William just what supplies were needed
from time to time.
At present the greatest trouble w r as labor.
. 1 ,,® , , , , ,
Only, two of the regular hands at the store
remamed-George whose mind had probably
et grasped the fact that gold had been
in New South Wales, and .Tacky
llo y a y° ung TkiT h
so far made no move Jem had been among
to . !eave t( ? f? west ” To “’
he second waggoner and the man who
had
a toitmght latei. Even old L bbj, who.re
du Jes at the Laburnums had grown more
ami niore nominal, was talking of going
to the diggings, till the Quartermaster
solemnly confided the family to his care.
“iyj r . William will be working night and
d see , Libby,” he said, “and there’s
nQ one care f 0 leave in charge but you.”
(In the next instalment the reader will
see what the goldfields did for the Quarter-
master and the house of Hyde.)
Judson smiled, his fat-boy smile. It was
evident her proposition amused him. “I’ve
seen some rather ugly finishes to these jewel-
slipping experiments,” he replied. “I once
saw a little chap like myself try to oblige
a nice kind lady, after your own heart, in
a similar predicament. Insurance fraud,
too! The moment he had passed the queue
of waiting detectives, she ran after him and
accused him of absconding with her dia-
monds. He got five years. But she cleared
herself from a trap like the present one.”
“How will my cheque help?” she quavered.
“At least it will show we’re working the
swindle together,” he retorted, “if you should
feel disposed to charge me with the theft
of your jewels—after I leave the ship.”
Lizzie disappeared into her stateroom.
“Payable to boa- he prompted in an
undertone. “At your King William-street
bank. Nothing else will do.”
The voice of the second officer was heard
requesting passengers to step down the gang-
way. Some distance along the deck a couple
of plain-clothes men were rifling Zilla’s be-
longings. Her angry protests fell dead on
the searchers’ ears,
“Nothing but cheap Egyptian rubbish,”
one of them declared, dropping the rings and
tiara back among her weird collection of
curios.
While their attention was focussed on
Zilla’s other belongings, Findlay signed to
a red-faced man standing at the gangway-
foot. The red-faced man was covering his
swift up-and-down glances at the descending
passengers from the shelter of a large news-
paper, over which he was bending. He
caught Findlay’s gesture.
“Hello, Jud!” he murmured. “Anything
interesting?”
“Bring your paper up here, Nobby. I’ve
got a touch of gout in my right hand !” Jud-
son confided in a low voice. “Too much
sugar. Gome up!”
Nobby slapped Judson’s shoulder as they
shook hands. His left eyelid drooped slightly
as a small parcel slid into his palm under
cover of the newspaper.
“You see, Nobby.” Judson explained sadly,
“I had to save them from the fishes. Tin
Lizzie’s little outfit. Same old tale. She
wanted the jewels and the money. I'm doing
this because I didn’t want to see a desperate
woman throw emeralds overboard and make
your company pay for it. Go easy with her,
Nobby. I promise she’ll never do it again.”
Nobby Jukes wrung Judson’s hands in
sheer joy. “She’s a bad member,” he said,
“but we’ll have to let it go at that.”
Judson merely nodded as ho tripped down
the gangway at the moment Lizzie O’Gor-
man emerged from the saloon-way and faced
Jukes.
“Pardon, Madame," he began wfith a grim
little smile. “I am happy to say your lost
jewels have been recovered. If you will sign
this receipt I will return them to you now\”
:)t * $ ❖
Judsou entered the bank in King William-
street, and received a cheerful smile from
Mr. Binker, the cashier. Always at the end
of the trip Judson had a few cheques to cash.
“It’s a pleasure to see you again, Mr. Jud-
son,” he greeted warmly. “Things are going
rather badly in Europe, eh?”
“Beastly!” Judson agreed, placing O’Gor-
man’s cheque on the counter. “I really had
to rob a tomb in Egypt to pay my expenses.
An old game of mine, Mr. Binker, opening
tombs in Egypt.”
Tho cheque was in order. Judson took
n thousand pounds in notes and allowed the
balance to pass to his credit. A few moments
later he was outside in time to meet Mrs.
O’Gorman rounding the corner of Bundle-
street at top speed.
“A neat little clean-up!” she commented
bitterly. “I wonder you have the face to
come out in the daylight!”
* * * *
At the GaWrier Hotel Judson discovered
Nina and Ghatterton seated in the vestibule,
while an over-heated booking-clerk was
explaining the difficulty of finding rooms.
All the accommodation was booked in
advance. It was Race Week.
Judson beckoned to the clerk. “Mr. and
Mrs. Shirley are my friends,” he intimated.
“My room is at their service if you have no
objection.”
The book-keeper suddenly discovered that
he had none. Judson escorted Chatterton to
the room. “My boy,” he said thoughtfully, “I’m
going to make a proposal. A friend of mine
at the Sturt is running a profitable flower-
and fruit-farm. He wants to go to Eng-
land. Now if Mrs. Shirley will take hold
of this little place it would prove a nicer
way to Easy-street than buying land in
Southern Egypt.”
Nina’s lips quivered as she caught his
meaning. She could run the place until this
poor wreck of a husband found his health
again. She did not speak. She could not.
Two days later Judson returned to them
with the transfer near completion. “Please
don't thank me,” he begged. “When you
are quite settled among the flowers I'll ask
you to let me come down and rest for an odd
week-end.”
“You are going away again?” Nina asked
almost in dismay as he turned to the door.
Judson munched a caramel slowly, his
eyes twinkling. “My business runs east and
west. Get on wfith it now, little girl, and
make that farm pay.”
Judson went back to the Araluen. She
was his lucky ship.
The Plea.
Now I must leave you; but your sad, sad eyes
Will haunt me all day long; those pools of
light,
Set in a cold, dark face, when sunlight lies
On all the land, will come before my sight.
I’ll dream again of tender splendid hours
We spent together; lamplight on the wall
Of the brown room; masses of branching
' flowers,
Sweet bloss’ming stocks, antigonon, and all
The fairy mists that swept across the land
Between midnight and dawn, and some-
times crept
In at the open window’s ; warm winds and
Cold drops of dew’ like tears the night
had wept.
Eyes, softened with long pain and very kind,
Entreat me to forgive you for being blind.
QUEENSLAND.
CHRISTOBEL FRANCIS.


e
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear— ■
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES « CUtKCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. OHice—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Vietoriau Olllee—“Chancery House,” 485 Hourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH « CO., LTD., Adelaide. 9A.
Advertise in
Queenslander”
QUEENSLAND’S BRIGHT NATIONAL WEEKLY
PICTORIAL.
The “Queenslander” covers the whole of Queensland and
Northern Rivers of New South Wales. All Agricultural,
Farming, Grazing, Fruit and Sugar-growing areas are reached,
as well as Mining and Oilfields and Timber Districts.
HAS A SOLID “RIGHT - INTO - THE - HOME” CIRCULATION.
Published by The Brisbane Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
Courier Buidings, Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Rep.: Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 85007.
IF YOU DESIRE
TO REACH THE
TASMANIAN
BUYING PUBLIC
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
should carry your message.
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town and
Country—jthis Popular Weekly goes regularly
into the homes of the people, and each
issue is eagerly read by men, women and
children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest, with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays. Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 223
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: ‘Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street.
Che Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all interstate agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price 1 id.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
WILSON, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone, MA3161.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Queensland’s Greatest Newspaper.
To-day, in the great State of Queensland, the newspaper that
offers to merchants and manufacturers unquestionably the
finest “cover” in the daily paper field is
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
Circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be
greater than that of any other Queensland daily.
For rates and other particulars, please apply to
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-294 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE,
First Floor, Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original,
ftedUtmio a good
time-Jht any
timeio the tight
time to take p
fathom*
Worth a
Guinea
a Box.
<27 PI L.LS AJf)
«?«•.<&«•..is
-4 * *-4 F V- «?■
>l^
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know —from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three- „
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
TUESDAY—Price 3d
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
<D
<# 3?
FOR 86 YEARS
“ The Examiner” has been the trusted Friend of the Family
in Northern Tasmania. It is the Oldest Newspaper in
Tasmania, and is still the Family Newspaper.
FULL INFORMATION, COPIES, ADVERTISING RATES
Obtainable from
W. R. ROLPH & SONS
Pty. Ltd.,
73-75 Patterson Street,
LAUNCESTON.
MR. V. W. MARGETTS,
123 Flinders Street,
MELBOURNE
MR. W. G. DOUGAN,
701 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
M
p
0
AO® a 6 ’’ •••■’
iV >
,a® ..•••■' ..•••■' .■••:>>&
-v(>\ * -.*•** .*•* .•** *6^^^
#* ..•* ..**VV> v^
..••• <A<S*


\he tvot(ds leading
va
%
/
Ls
F
'A
!»
Vi
: ■
cl
a
MQ
Cl
! 4
CAxt
re
r ,L&
NO OTHER LOW PRICED CAR
HAS SO MANY ADVANTAGES
“FINGER-TIP Con-
trol”—a single but-
ton, in centre of
steering-wheel > starts
motor, operates lights
and sounds horn.
■- • '•■/ ' - . '
IN BEAUTY, size and performance, the new
Superior Whippet Six can be compared only
to cars of much higher cost.
Grace of line sets an ultra modern style trend
for all light Sixes. Bigger bodies give extra leg
room, head room and elbow room.
The new Superior Whippet Six is the world’s
lowest priced Six to offer the important engineer-
ing advantages of seven-bearing crankshaft,
silent timing chain, full force-feed lubrication,
aluminium alloy invar-strut pistons, and “Finger-
tip Control.
Let your nearest Willys-Overland dealer arrange
a demonstration.
e new
supetco'u
ms
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LTD.,
173 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
OVERLAND SOUTH
AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
62-70 Franklin Street,
Adelaide, S.A.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
53-63 Bathurst Street,
Hobart, Tas.
OVERLAND VICTORIA
PTY., LTD.,
117-121 Lonsdale Street,
Melbourne, Vic.
ADAMS MOTORS, LTD.,
442 Murray Street,
Perth, W.A.
E. G. EAGER & SON, LTE
Breakfast Creek Road,
Newstead, Brisbane, Q.
