

r
IfPerth I
t + s
vt*,
FINE J%S;
near
s
AS EXCLUSIVELY SQPPUED TO THE
HUbstCnD Clubs
JohaDewaroSons L-
Distillers PERTHlScofland)* LONDON
PRODUCE OF SCOTLAND
* nu ® twou tni supervision of the eo«“oNwfM T " eJt,c *
and your choice will be
f
the best of good spirits
The Bulletin
'*)fluLsiJVU\k' /
Vol. 50.—N0. 2571.
Wednesday, May 22, 1929.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


LLYSAGHT
m
O
3
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries,
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
r
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
V s -
r Tn
HW 3
It pays
to wear
IfoCsty
PURE WOOL
UNDERWEAR
ŕ
IT pays you in health. Wolsey safeguards you
against all climatic changes. It pays you in com-
fort. Wolsey is made by highly skilled British
labour, from the finest and softest wool, correctly
fashioned. It pays you in wear. Wolsey Pure Wool
Underwear is guaranteed unshrinkable and never
loses its shape. Buy and wear Wolsey to-day.
Youll be glad you did !
on*
no A
n°H s
PI
WOLSEY LUSTRAL Art Silk Underwear
and Hosiery.
WOLSEY SPORTSMAN Knitted Outer-
wear for Women, Pullovers. Pure Wool
Stockings for Women, Half Hose for Men
and |-Hose and Socks for Children.
WOLSEY
PURE WOOL UNDERWEAR
Made in England by
WOLSEY LTD., LEICESTER.
WOLSEY LTD., 316, FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
Cj nit’S 300 Correspondence
COURSES INCLUDE-
All Australian Exams.
Accountancy Exams.
Architectural Courses
Advertisement Writing
Agricultural Courses
Bookkeeping
Bankers’ Institute
Builders’ Courses
Commercial An
Chemistry
Draftsmanship
Engineering
General Education
Government Exams.
Hand Writing
Litemr^Courses^^^
Languages
Motor Engineering
Professional Exams.
Secretaries’ Exams.
Shorthand, Typing
Salesmanship
Show Card Writing
Shire Clerks’ Exams,
Stammerers
Surveying
Teachers’ Exams.
Touch Type Writing
University Exams.
Verse Writing
Window Dressing
NVireles^nginecring
Encircle Course Favored and Mail This
I Advt to STQTT'SjIIO RUSSELL 5T V MELB.
\V7RITE for the library cata-
w LOGUE AND LISTS on all subjects,
winch will be for wanted on application, pox
Tee, to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Take the perfume of the rose
And the honey from the bee,
As the shades' of twilight close,
Where the one you love shall be.
Take the nectar of her lips,
But for eolds and chills assure
There is ease in soothing sips
Of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
* . —Abvt.
AFRAID OF FOOD.
Sufferers from indigestion very often become faddists as regards their food, and find
themselves in time reduced to a very meagre and unsatisfying diet. Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujtibes correct acidity of the stomach, and their antiseptic properties prevent
abnormal fermentation of the food, thus allowing the natural digestive ferments to act
and if taken regularly after meals they so
improve the digestion that a strict diet be-
comes unnecessary. Hudson’s Eumenthol
Jujubes are most useful to those who suffer
from Heartburn, Flatulence and Dyspepsia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE—Tins 1/6.
Recommended by the Medical World, viz.:—-
The Lancet, The Pbactitioneb, etc.
mam
H®
m
roC
D SON
HU
The Red Page
The English Theatre
From the manager down to the most
poorly-paid super, everyone connected
with any West Eird house will tell you
that something is radically wrong with the
English theatre to-day. The playwrights
put the blame on the managers; the man-
agers blame the playwrights and the audi-
ences and the cinema. Everybody blames
everybody else. In a letter to me recently
Eugene O’Neill wrote:—
The American theatre is now the most alive and
imaginative in the world, while the Englista—like
the French —is in a shameful state of dry rot,
living only in its past and, seemingly, without much
hope or desire for a future. I speak here not as
a jingo—-our theatre is full, of glaring faults —but
as a student of the theatre' in all countries who
tries to keep in touch with what is being done in
each. My feeling is that Europe is so old and
tired it is losing all interest in tire theatre as a
hard, difficult, exacting art medium and is only
intrigued by it in the rOle of amusement palace—
while America is just waking up to it as an art
and is full of creative, searching enthusiasm.
More than likely Eugene O’Neill is right
in assigning the main cause of the un-
healthy state of the English theatre to
the oldness and tiredness of post-war
Europe. But. it is not difficult to find
attendant, causes. I greatly doubt if a
really great play, with poetry .and far-
reaching imagination going to the making
of it, would have much chance of winning
appreciation from the stage of any West
End theatre. There would be too many
things against it. There is no lack of the
idealism and enthusiasm of youth in
England, and until wealth and comfort kill
them, those are the qualities on which art,
exists and thrives. But the prices of
admission restrict the West End theatres
mainly to the wealthy and comfortable,
and wealth and comfort are the qualities
on which art wilts and dies.
Then there are the critics. They all seem
old and tired; there does not seem to be
a spark of idealism or enthusiasm left in
any of them. Any imagination they may
have had in their younger days seems to
have been killed by Shaw, who has become
definitely the vogue in England; he is the
ultimate standard by which the critics,
almost to a man, measure dramatic art.
Shaw is intellectually brilliant, but emotion-
ally cold. He deals always with results,
never with motives. He looks at things
from all sorts of strange and unlikely
angles, but he never attempts to look really
into or beyond or through things. He does
not deal with such unlocal and permament
things as Love or Hate or Anger or
Jealousy, or Passion in any of its forms.
He is what the English people who now
accept him without question call
“healthily sane.” He is in this what Shak-
speare and Ibsen and Dante’ and Shelley
and, in fact, all the rest of the really great
poets were not. The London critics have
adopted his “healthily sane” outlook, and
the result is simply damning to any play
that, attempts to get beyond what the eye
actually sees and the ear actually hears.
On a Sunday night recently I went to
the Gate Theatre Studio to see a perform-
ance of “The Man Who Ate the Popo-
mack " by W. J. Turner. The play had
been so universally and utterly damned by
London paper critics that I would not have
bothered going if I had not promised to
take a friend to this alive little theatre.
I went, prepared to be bored by a silly
freak show. I was agreeably surprised. The
play was quite a brilliant satirical comedy,
and something more than that. Certainly
the actors were handicapped by a youthful-
cult pose in the staging and mounting. In
the first scene they strolled about in the
stalls and discussed ultra-modern pictures
on the walls; and they spoke through
imaginary telephones and smoked imaginary
cigarettes. There was much that seemed
unnecessary and faddish. But the play it-
self, unconventional and outrageously dis-
turbing to the old “unities” of time and
space, was quite clear and easy to follow.
The dialogue was smart and goc?d and the
satire biting, and the symbolism in no
way interfered with the action of the story.
It was present the whole time pointing and
Suggesting. And you were left to go down
the way pointed and towards what was
suggested just as far as you chose. The
play simply opened a door for your imagi-
nation. If you did not feel like using that
imagination, you still had a good comedy
for your money. The audience as a whole
enjoyed it,. But the tired professional
critics who saw the first, night performance
merely yawned.
The cry of the London critics is: “We
must, have facts, and of course the rules
of art. We do not want what is surmised
or imagined or unproven. We do not want
symbolism, mysticism, passion.” But men
of genius make their own rules of art.
Shakspeare made his, and Ibsen his. A
man like O’Neill gives what Shakspeare
and Ibsen gave, what is surmised, imagined,
unproven. He gives symbolism, mysticism,
passion. One can hardly imagine the
author of such plays as “The Emperor
Jones.” “The Hairy Ape,” “The Great God
Brown,” bothering about sticking to
accepted rules of art. Ibsen once wrote
when the critics said “ Peer Gynt,” was
not poetry, “If it is not. then it will be.
Poetry in Norway will be made to con-
form to my work,” I can imagine O’Neill
saying likewise of his drama. In New
York at the present time his latest play,
‘•Dynamo,’’ is creating such a storm of con-
troversy, such shouts of laudation and such
howls and shreiks of execration as have
surely never been created by play since
Ibsen gave Europe “The Doll’s House,”
and followed it with “Ghosts.” Next June
the New York Theatre Guild is to produce
in London “Strange Interlude” and “Marco
Millions.” One can easily fortell what in
the main the London critics will have to
say about these plays. They will not
yawn—Eugene O’Neill is too big a man,
even in London, for that. But
LONDON
ALAN D. MICKLE.
Those Inferior Maorilanders
Vance Palmer, in his explorations among
Maoriland literature, has found a great deal
to condemn- -poor old Tom Bracken “ought
to have an evil reputation”; Alfred Domett
is an authoi* of “dull masterpieces” that
no one can “read through to the bitter end”;
the men writers are poor things, suffering
from “an inferiority complex,” and the only
stars on a very murky and lowly horizon
are a bevy of ladies—-Jessie Mackay,
Blanche .Baughan, Katherine Mansfield,
G. B. Lancaster and Eileen Duggan.
G. B. Lancaster, who, as far as my recol-
ection goes, got most of her inspiration from
a much less frigid source than the chilly
isles of Fernland. can be ruled out. Kath-
erine Mansfield, the pampered daughter of a
banking magnate, wrote more feelingly of
her London than of her Maoriland experi-
ences. Miss Mackay’s spiritual home has
always been the Scottish Highlands—though
born in Fernland she did not become
acclimatised. Miss Baughan, like Miss
Mackay, after writing, in the ecstasy of
flapperdom, a few sets of verses that came
somewhere near expressing a little more
devotion for her native land than she pos-
sessed for llingland, became a social re-
former with the first whiff of printer’s ink,
and the making of poems isn’t a business
for unmarried females, however talented,
who spend their time worrying over prob-
lems that don’t look like problems at all
to any normal, healthy, uncelibate human
being My acquaintance with Miss Dug-
gan’s work is sketchy and incomplete, but,
in an editorial capacity I bought several
of her poems. They were worth more than
I was able to pay, but I never had occa-
sion to regard her as a characteristic
Maoriland poetess.
As a matter of fact, Maoriland is in about
the same boat as Australia in the matter
of cultivating a national literature. Her
traditions are rooted in an alien soil; those
of her scenic features that are not paral-
leled in the British Isles, such as alps,
glaciers and fiords, abound in older and
more literary countries. There remain, as
distinguishing characteristics of a country
that more nearly resembles Britain than any
other on the face of the globe, the fern
and other native flora, the Maori and his
art and traditions, and the general aura of
a colony. The native bush is more de-
pressing and repellent than the Australian
“eucalyptered cloisterdoms,” which, as
Brunton Stephens remarked, are “anything
but gay”—the oak and the ash and the
weeping willow-tree are rapidly replacing
it wherever men make their homes—and the
resources of Maori legend have been pretty
exhaustively exploited by such writers as
Grey, Domett, Edward Tregear, Johannes
Andresen, James Cowan and S. Percy
Smith. The ethnological, botanical and
zoological fields have been well tilled.
Male Maoriland writers - don’t refrain
from giving their fiction a national setting
because they suffer from an inferiority com-
plex, and they are not ashamed to be
discovered writing instead of “selling bacon
or grubbing fern-shoots.” They don’t pro-
duce a “national” literature for exactly the
same reason that Australia, with much les.-:
excuse, has failed to do that same thing.
The Roman colonists in Britain were either
not much of a hand at indicting their ex-
periences, or they met with yawns from the
publishers of Rome and Carthage. But
their lack of literary success can’t be set
down to a sense of inferiority. Give the
Maorilanders another quarter of a century
—they’ll be heirs of only a hundred years of
their adopted country’s traditions then—
and they’ll commence to interpret theii
land and its customs and methods of thought
to the rest of the world. And when they
start Unqle Sam will realise that his notion
of fervent patriotism falls short of perfec-
tion bv at least a million miles.
A.D. WYLIE.
The Law on Layin’ 'Em.
Of making many bets there is no end, and ;
much punting is a weariness of the flesh.
It is to this text, slightly altered from the
original, that W. J. V. Windeyer preacher
in The Law of Wagers, Gaming and, Lot-
teries in the Commonwealth of Australia
(Law Book Co.). The writer is a barrister
of exceptional learning. That his book, in
spite of cross references and careful index-
ing, retains a measure of the complexity
which has attached to laws dealing with
gambling for many a long year is not his
fault: Australia, with a population approxi-
mating to that of London, enjoys thirteen
Legislatures dealing with the gambling pro-
blem in as many differing ways, every one
of them right in its own eyes but rarely so
to the others.
In the beginning, the Common Law,
which has since been over-ridden by a
hundred contradictory statutes, had no
(Bed Page continued on page 5.)


Think of “Truth in Advertising” and you think of
ANTHONY HORDERNS’.
Select Your Dressing Gown
from Sydney’s
Finest Assortment —at
Anthony Horderns'
SB
V
IS
'Si
ttjM
n»s
SGiHB
mi/mm
WI/a
A BAROMETER WILL
HELP YOU.
It is often important to you to fore-
tell the weather a barometer will
help you to do this accurately.
Illustrated is a “Short and Mason”
Barometer, in Polished Mahogany
Case. Price 257-
In Polished Oak Case. Price, 27/6
Also Pendent-type Barometers
from £3
All of reliable British manufacture.
Book of instructions with each.
1101
ZEISS BINOCULARS.
Illustrated is the “Deltrentis,” a
Universal wide Angle Glass. Mag-
nifies eight times. Complete with
Case and Straps. Price, £l2/15/-
Also other models from £9/15/-
to £l6/15/-
YOUR EYES.
When in town, take the precaution
of having your eyes tested by
Anthony Horderns’ Optometrist.
His advice is reliable, and all charges
are strictly moderate.
Optical Dept.—-First Floor.
Carriage Paid.
The comfort of a Dressing Gown assures for it a 'permanent place in the affections
of men! Truly, a warm Dressing Gown is one of the delights of life—especially
in Winter.
Anthony Horderns recently made a large and specially advantageous purchase of
Dressing Gown Materials , and these have now been made up in our own workrooms
into Gowns of genuine quality and attractive design. They are offered at prices
■which challenge any comparison—you will find they cost less than you expected
to pay!
Tweed Gown, 45/-
On extreme left is shown a Man’s Dressing
Gown in smart diagonal tweed. It is of
medium weight. Light Fawn shade.
Price 45/-
Tweed Gown, 45/-
Man’s Tweed Dressing Gown. Basket Weave
in check design. Illustrated at left. Warm
winter weight. In Brown, Fawn or Grey.
Price 45/-
In Silk and Wool, 59/6
Silk and Wool Dressing Gown in a French
Weave, which is light in weight but is very
warm. Not illustrated. Colors are New
Cedar tones and Heather shades. Price, 59/6
French Gown, 70/-
An attractive Gown in French Tweed. This
is all-wool medium weight. Dressy Brown
checks and stripes. Not illustrated.
Price 70/-
In Zibaline, 45/-
This Gown is extra warm, and a variety of
Herringbone Weaves are available. In shades
of Mole Grey, Wine and Tobac. Price, 45/-
Velour Gown, 55/-
Men’s All-wool Velour Dressing Gown, not
illustrated. Extra warm English Weave. In
Fawn, Brown and Coating shades.
Price 55/-
Also super quality, in a heavier weight.
Fawn overcheck designs. Price . . 65/-
Dressing Gowns Department—Ground Floor.
Carriage Paid.
Velour Gowns, 70/-
The superior-quality Gown shown above
is of Soft French All-wool Velour. Color-
ings are bright and cheerful Henna shades.
Dark overchecks also available.
Price
70/-
You can buy on our “D.P.S.” (Deposit-Purchase System) if it suits you
better. lou leave a. small deposit, then pay the balance as it suits you.
On completion of payments, goods are delivered in the usual way. No
interest is charged.
Anthony Horderns
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, Q.P.O.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
’Phone:
Day and Night.


ŗ
m
Nh5H
m
Your first cross country trip in a new
Nash “400” will thoroughly convince
you that the words “the world has a new
and finer motor car” were well chosen.
Its new Twin Ignition motor gives you in-
creased power and speed,with a very notice-
able decrease in the amount of fuel consumed.
Its ease of steering and control makes
driving a constant pleasure, no matter
TOURERS.
Standard Six from . .
Special Six from
Advanced Six from. .
.. £375
.. £4BO
.. £63o*
how long the trip or how rough the road.
The deep, generously upholstered cushions
match the comfort of your favorite chair.
Swung low to the road and fitted with big
hydraulic shock absorbers, this car brings
you in at the journey’s end, relaxed and
refreshed never tired.
There is luxury in motoring when the car
in which you ride is a new "400” by Nash.
SEDANS.
£4so* (2 door) £47o* (4 door)
£565* (2 door) £sBo* (4 door)
£62o* (2 door) £635* (4 door)
Body.
Distributors for New South Wales
WILLSFORD, LTD.,
132-134 Phillip Street,
SYDNEY.
'Phones: 8W2291 (5 lines).
Distributors for Victoria and Tasmania
RICKARDS BROS. PTY. f LTD.,
567-573 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE, Cl.
’Phone: F 3114.
Distributors for Queensland and Northern Rivers
PEELS, LTD.,
407-431 Stanley Street,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
'Phone: J 1561.
Distributors for South Australia and Broken Hill
AUTOCARS, LTD.,
58*72 Flinders Street,
ADELAIDE.
'Phone: Central 5500.
Distributors for West Australia:
ERIC MADDREN MOTORS, LTD.,
996 Hay Street,
PERTH.
'Phones: 85610, 87634.
TASMANIAN DEALERS:
THE SERVICE CO. OF TASMANIA, 166 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
E. MEERMANN, 135 Bathurst Street, Hobart.
BENNETT & GILBERi, Best Street, Devonport.
(12 9765)


wmm ■
The “Oxford’’ Dressing-table Service in Sterling Silver.
A Service, comprising two Hair Brushes, Hat and Cloth
Brushes, Hand Mirror and Comb, from £ lSJlof-
A Catalogue will be sent upon request.
Visitors
to London
Mappin & Webb have the distinction of
being one of the oldest Firms of Gold
and Silversmiths, Jewellers, and Dress
ing Bag Makers in the World, and they
extend a cordial invitation to visitors
from the Commonwealth to call when
in London.
The Oxford Street and Regent Street
Showrooms are within 5 minutes by
taxi from the leading Hotels; the City
Showrooms are quite near St. Paul’s
Cathedral, The Tower of London, Guild-
hall, and opposite The Mansion House.
MAPPIN CWEBB
JEWELLERY • WAT CUES- CLOCKS • SILVERWARE
PRINCE'S PLATE • "FANCY fc LEATHER GOODS.
: LONDON SHOWROOMS: —
158162,0XF0RD STw.i.I72.REGENT STw.i. ZQUEEV VICTORIA STe.c.4.
quarrel with gambling, but in 1385 some
sticky beak discovered that punting on
various games, including “football and other
such importune sports,” was interfering with
the practice of archery, so 12 Richard 11.,
cap. 6, put the kybosh on the game, though
only on recognised “shooting days,” which
were then Sundays and holidays, leaving
his Majesty’s lieges at full liberty, appa-
rently, to give it a spin any other old time.
Later laws extended the embargo to other
named games, but always for the same
reason, that the gambling attaching to them
interfered with the training of archers,
“that stable troop of footmen that made all
France afraid,” as Sir Thomas Smith noted
in 1583.
The first enactment directly levelled at
gambling, per se, was 16 Car. 11., cap. 7, but
even this applied only to cases of cheating.
Then in the days of Good Queen Anne
(dec’d) came the first of a long series of
legislative enactments which struck directly
at gambling by declaring documentary con-
tracts relating to gambling “frustrate and
void.” This Act, by the way, sportingly
exempted palaces in which the Sovereign
was actually resident, her late Majesty being
notoriously one of the boys when it came
to indulging in a little flutter. Wagering
itself retained more or less legal sanction,
for actions to enforce the terms of wagers
were frequently brought in the courts, and
became such a nuisance that the Judges
began to refuse them a hearing as vexatious
and unreasonable. The atmosphere was
cleared by the famous Act of 1845, which
revised the gambling laws, and found la
echo in many Australian statutes.
Briefly, this enacted that all contracts by
way of gaming or wagering were void and
unenforceable in any court. In 1922, how-
ever, the decision of the House of Lords
in Sutters v. Briggs led to new legislation.
This decision was to the effect that if the
wager were on a game or race and was paid
by cheque, the loser could recover the
amount after the cheque had been presented
and paid. It was based on an unrepealed
section of an Act of 1835 relating to pay-
ments by what may be called documents,
as opposed to cash. The Act of 1922 wiped
out this section and reaffirmed - the principle
that all wagering contracts are unenforce-
able in law, with the additional proviso that
“no trustee, executor or other person of
similaf standing is under obligation to make
or enforce a claim under the repealed section
in respect of any transaction completed be-
fore the passing of the Act.” This last was
a very important addition, since it was the
bringing of an action by executors based
on the House of Lords decision which made
the Act of 1922 imperative. Here, by the
way, we have to consider the conflicting
laws of the various Australian States to
which reference has been made. The de-
cision in Sutters v. Briggs still holds good
in South and West Australia, neither of
which has made provision to comply with
the terms of the English Act of 1922. Even
in some of the other States the principles
laid down in that Act are subject to varia-
tion. The important portion is:—
All contracts or agreements whether by parole
or in writing by way of gaming or wagering shall
be null and void and no suit shall be brought or
maintained in any court of law or equity for recover-
ing any sum of money or valuable thing alleged to
be won on any wager or which shall have been
deposited to abide the event on which any wager
shall have been made.
But, owing to failure of special legislation
to the contrary, it would appear that in
N.S.W. and Tasmania securities given for
a wagering debt are deemed to be given for
a void, but not necessarily illegal, trans-
action. Viewed in that light, the holder of a
cheque, bill or note given for a wagering
debt is able to maintain an action on the
instrument, whether he has knowledge of its
origin in a gambling debt or not.
The book affords many agreeable varia-
tions of its theme, embracing stocks and
shares, insurance, unlawful games, common
gaming houses, betting houses, street bet-
ting, betting advertisements, lotteries, etc.
All, except in special circumstances, are
illegal and banned by statute. The trouble
is again that this is done in as many dif-
ferent ways as there are States, the crimes
of Collingwood being chaste in Woolloon-
gabba, so to speak; not the least interesting
part of the book is the comparison of the
various viewpoints. If it lacks in
any particular, it is in that of appro-
priate illustration. It teems with delightful
subjects for the artist’s brush. The story
of Higginson v. Simpson, for instance, in
which the plaintiff tipped the defendant the
winner of the Grand National, and sued
the latter unsuccessfully for his cut, would
have made an ideal picture for a “jacket,”
another essential item in latter-day best-
sellers which this book lacks.
Childe Hardy’s Pilgrimage
Nothing much of moment has been writ-
ten in Australia on the art or science of
aesthetics, so The Dawn of a New Civilisa-
tion, by Hardy Wilson (Cecil Palmer: Rob-
ertson and Mullens), is Welcome. The book
is written in the form of fiction, but is
obviously autobiographical. George Lam-
bert, Julian Ashton, Harley Griffith and
other of Mr. Wilson’s friends flit somewhat
vaguely through its pages, and the lines
of Richard le Measurer’s history are the
lines of Mr. Hardy’s.
Richard is apprenticed to a firm of archi-
tects in Sydney. His soul early awakes
to the fact that, viewed aesthetically, the
.Queen City of the South is a disgrace to
humanity. Eager to discover what is wrong
with the place he takes ship to Europe,
where he studies architecture. He comes
to the conclusion that Europe has reached
the end of a cycle, that creative effort
is dead, and that the remedy must be found
quickly or civilisation will crumble to de-
struction. He goes to America, but that
barbarous country is equally oblivious of
the doom that is hanging over it. The
influence of the Renaissance is finished;
there is nothing more to be gained by going
behind the Renaissance to Greece; all that
is left is China.
Richard proceeds to China, and finds the
art and architecture and art ideals of that
country entirely satisfying. In sundry re-
markably beautiful passages he depicts the
grace and charm of that ancient mode of
building, whose most praiseworthy aesthetic
feature is that it is eminently useless. For
one thing the Chinese have solved a prob-
lem which has been troubling Richard from
the outset. In China, he finds, “the hip is
never turned upwards, although to the eye it
appears to rise, while in the Southern style
the turn is upwards into the air, which is
graceful.” Needless to say, Richard is not
here referring to an item of feminine physi-
ology, for, even though he is a hero, he is
entirely without a sex complex.
Armed with this discovery about the hips,
Richard returns to Sydney. He is convinced
that the only hope for Western civilisa-
tion is in union with the culture of China;
where else should this union be consum-
mated but in the new metropolis of the
Pacific! That unregenerate city, however,
is still building her revolting picture-palaces
and surrounding herself with a garland of
savings-bank homes, in between sunbathing
on the beaches. Richard preaches his new
doctrine in season and out of season, but
nobody listens. Obviously creative impulse
is dead, and the reason is because the white
man cannot maintain his energy in the Aus-
tralian climate. He suggests that Sydney
be rebuilt on the colder highlands inland,
but again nobody listens. He gets a small
commission to build a summer-house in a
gentleman’s garden, and, hoping that this
may start the architectural revolution that
will save the country, he designs it in a
careful imitation of the Chinese style.
Alas, the kiosk passes unnoticed, as well
it might, amongst the Californian bungalows,
Spanish mission-houses and Italo-Moorish
villas with which it was no doubt sur-
rounded. As a last resort, Richard writes
an article warning Sydney of its approaching
disintegration and sends it to a leading
journal. It awakens no interest, and realis-
ing that Sydney is determined blindly to
career to destruction, and fearing that if
he stays longer the climate will destroy his
own last reserves of energy, he catches the
mailboat to Italy.
Mr. Wilson just missed writing a stimulat-
ing and valuable contribution to Australian
literature. His remarks on the consequences
of Australia’s isolation, of the tariff on
imported works of art and on the White
Australia policy are unorthodox but inter-
esting. But his hero, like most whole-
hearted aesthetes, is entirely deficient in a
sense of humor, with the result that his
well-informed onslaught on the tendencies
of modern architecture is as ineffective as
the spectacle of a parson rising in the front
stalls of the Tivoli to pray for the soul
of the naughty low comedienne. Incidentally,
Mr. Hardy’s grammar is deplorable—there
are literally hundreds of subordinate sen-
tences which remain unrelated to a subject.
No doubt Richard would interpret this as
another symptom of the approaching col-
lapse of civilisation.
A Satchel of Books
Why Be Childless? by Mrs. Monteith
Erskine (Christophers). A mature woman
speaks down from an always visible pedestal,
giving sound advice in answer to her query.
The Accomplice, by Jean Mortola
(Methuen). A crime-mystery yarn of a more
impossible sort than most of its contempo-
raries. The heroine, who is under control of
a person with an “inferior sadistic complex,”
is as unusual as she is unconvincing.
The Devil’s Net, by Otto Peitsch (Cecil
Palmer), begins with the Serajevo murder
and ends with Lenin at the Kremlin, and
its object is to show who was to blame for
the war. The author’s disclosures are
alleged to be based on documents of Russia’s
former Foreign Office, which were impounded
by the Council of the People’s Commissary.
Some conclusions which he draws are that
France wanted the war (for revenge and
Alsace-Lorraine, and because she was sure
of British help) ; that Germany did not want
it, and that England could have stopped the
Russian mobilisation, after which the war
was unstopable. The book has power, and it
has been well translated by Ira J. Morris
and Edward Faehs, but it falls between two
stools —it has too much art to be good pro-
paganda, and too much propaganda to be
good art.
Letters from a Flying Officer, by Rothesay
Stuart Wortley (Oxford Uni. Press; Robert-
son and Mullens). War seen from the air
and through the eyes of sanguine and adven-
turous youth. The air fighting was about
the only feature of Armageddon that was
not compounded of mud and physical misery.
The sort of mediaeval chivalry which sent
Anderson and Hitchcock to their death was
revived, and both sides exchanged challenges
to single combat and often refrained from
taking advantage of an adversary disabled
through bad luck. Wortley was 22 when In;
enlisted. He distinguished himself in tiio
R.A.F. and died of diabetes in 1927.
Although ostensibly fiction, the Letters have
the ring of truth and the vividness that dis-
tinguished Col. White’s chronicle. “Guests of
the Unspeakable.”
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun •
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Jeanette: Not an idea in “Dawn” that
hasn’t been worked to the bone.... Nina T.: We’ll
tell the curate if you send any more blistering stuff
like that B.Jt.P.: Sorry, not our brand....
Sardanapalus: Agree with the sentiment; the verse
doesn’t agree with us Clover: Nothing for the
hive in that lot C.: Yes, there is something in
it, but not enough U.D.: Just a bit thin
J.R.P.: Merely a rhymed statement of the obvious.
G.H.T.: We haven’t space for even the passable
original work offering Pessi: “At my bright con-
tribution, Sir Editor, don’t grin.” Why the title?
He doesn’t race ponies E.A.: Almost every rhyme
raises a vision of a chewed pencil-end... .E.L.W.:
Not one arresting line... .E.8.H.: The accused
replies that he had seen that one and many an-
other; he was writing of artists in general
C.L.: Been done too often A.M.C.: You don’t
make much of a lay of the hen idea... .Novocaine:
Don’t know what you’re driving at, but you seem
to mean something:—
The Daily Reptile grovels on the ground
For vile calumny that it spreads around.
A deed performed it lauds till it grows hoarse;
The deed repeated soon has lost its force.
A tragic case, an inane jest it finds,
And pours its venom into foolish minds;
A court, a jury, witnesses and Judge
This Reptile dpes appoint itself. Oh, fudge!
The only use its pages are, we hope,
Is lighting fires and for shaving soap.
Digger: No paying dust in that dishful
Hero: Question whether or not you should kiss a
man referred to Religious Editor. He replies that
he does not like buying on the blind, but is game
to try anything once... .B.W-B.: Too slight....
Stanza: Sorry; they don’t buy you a drink W.T.M.:
Yes, it is good for a child of that age Screw:
More food:—
Said he, “The sun is hot and weather sultry ;
Come in and have a feed ; I’ve fish and poultry.”
The smell was strong and then grew quickly stronger
As he dished up part of a monster conger.
For hours and hours he’d let the monster boil
Tough as an inner tube and rank as dugong oil.
We talked, but somehow dinner seemed to lag.
And “What’s the poultry?” “Well; some calls it
shag.”
And shag it was, cooked in the same pot as the eel.
I’ll say no more. It was a dreadful meal.
. ...K.M.: You can drive the vehicle all right, but
you don’t make it carry an interesting 10ad....
Marcus: Verse-writers who refer in disparaging terms
to their efforts often reveal good critical taste
8.A.: Both aren’t... .Jim: Verse “inspired by a
warm radiator and a good brand of tobacco on top
of a satisfied stomach” now “among the horrors of
the w.p.b., prior to the application of heat”....
Jazwell: Doesn’t impress.... J.A.S.G.: Has been done
before.... M.A. Y.: Only original work, please....
Geb: As exciting as near-beer... .D.8.0’C.:
“Breweries-furies” is one of its minor faults. .. .
D. 0.: Far too long. .. .A.J.H.: Sentenced to keep
quiet until you come of age....J.D.: Only so so.
. ...P.H.: Dunno why people who crave for the
simple life in verse don’t live it and be done with
it... .D.J.A.H.: You ask what you should call verse
beginning, “Australia, I see thou art weeping.” Why
not call it Fido?. .. .A.W.J.: Nothing there....
Cardinia: Can’t be done... .T.G.: Moves too heavily.
... .Charles J.: Good story poorly told. Try again.
It’s full of unrealised dramatic possibilities....
S.L.F.: Haven’t decided yet whether those prizes
shall be continued. They have produced such remark-
able results that something of the sort will certainly
be done again.... Pedess: Another contributor just
beat you; would like to hear from you again....
Lis: If he votes honestly for reduction of
the Parliamentary salary, and is beaten, it would
be unfair to call him insincere for accepting the
full amount. He may, if he chooses, give the amount
he reckons excessive to charity; but he certainly
ought to take what the others are getting... .T.
and L. C.: That yarn about Lukin being “an old-
age pensioner from Queensland” is characteristic of
the silly crowd who invented it. The Judge was
58 when he received his Federal appointment and
is 61 now. He is 12 years younger than Prender-
g'ast was when that Labor stalwart was made Yic.
Chief See., and 14 years younger than Dr. Maloney,
M.H.R. As for “the inexperienced lad who examined
the books,” he is a highly qualified man of 32
and a returned soldier.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.P.: “The Duststorm” blows no cheque in your
direction... .H.J.W.: If that’s a fair sample of ’bus-
conductors’ wit, trams will do for us... .M.P.S.:
If we ever begin publishing geometrical puzzles we’ll
send for y0u....C.R.: It’s been done before, and
better... .D.H.: Too gruesome.... G.T.: Poor imi-
tation of Souter... .K.W.: All dreary... .H.A.S.C.:
You might sell it elsewhere... .L.G.M.C.: You can’t
make a stale gag fresh by changing the characters
from bipeds to quadrupeds J.R.: Sorry, but it’s
so very immature... .J.P.: Don’t see you breaking
into print this side of Christinas. . . .N.W.: As
you say, one’s enough. .. .A.E.1).: Outside help might
bring you to publication standard, but it’s doubtful.
. ...M.L.: Why send a design for the title-page of
a cookery-b00k?... .J.C.H.: Football sketch didn’t
score a point.


r
• 7 /
I
. ' Y
mm
ms
m
■
■
mm
PI
! <«*
■ lie ■ ;
lilt!
*% x %' £, *owV^
SSI
BWBMMI i ■■■■■■l 1 vY.'v.^l
mm
*IW»
n
%*. ~™»«*
■■■■—^Bwh
*N
S
H
Hi
A
.. . .
,411
■ •■■ . .■. ■ . : ■ :■■•■: .- I .
» r I r *
M
o , ~*«
.
//^
f /—.
/
«*» ipi
1 1
mmmmm
■1 1
: . , YY
mmmmm
r
■
■
Y.
» 1
1 ■
■
■
t W<
tre*
Wit
X ■


The Bulletin
Vol. 50.—N0. 2571.
May 22, 1939.
TEN YEARS AFTER.
The Peace of Versailles was signed in June, 1919.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
tH George Street, Sydney.
Victoria: lli-tO Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 51,9 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London: 36 Southampton Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, Its. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, A 2 10s. i
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom: l/oz. to 10oz,, lid.;
each additional ioz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: ioz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
THE ENGLISH THEATRE—
By Alan D. Mickle . . .. .. .. 2
THE LAW ABOUT BETTING .. .. 2, 6
THOSE MAORILANDERS 2
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ..5
A REASON FRONT PAGE 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
REDUCE THE INCOME TAX ! 8
HOPELESS ARBITRATION LAWS .. ..8
FROMELLES: WAS GENERAL McCAY TO
BLAME? 8
LAW REFORM.—By Daniel Levy, Speaker of
N.S.W. ASSEMBLY 9
VOTES THAT COST £2 9
THE QUEENSLAND CARAVAN—
A cartoon by Scorfield .. . . .. 9
POLITICS (with caricatures) .. .. .. 10
“QUEENSLAND” MOORE’S NEW SMILE .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) 11, 12
PERSONAL (with three drawings) .. .. 14
POVERTY POINT 15
“FLYING MATES.” Cartoon by Aria .. ..15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..17
BRAILOWSIvY 17
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 18, 20
BURNS PHILP 18
SUN NEWSPAPERS 18
YOUNGHUSBANDS 18
GIBSON AND HOWES 20
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 23, 25
Free Service Department • .. 26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 31
THE DIESEL ON THE FARM 28
FAT LAMBS FOR EXPORT 28
SMOKE-011 32
PEN AND PICTURE .. 35
SPORTING (Illustrated) .. .. ..39, 41, 42
INTER-STATE FOOTBALL: QUEENSLAND
v. N.S.W 39
MOOREFIELD RACES 39
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC 42
THE RADIO SHOW 42
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 44
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 46
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 49
“The Quartermaster” • • 50, 51, 52, 58
“A ROGUE IN AMBER” (conclusion) . . . . 55
VERSE.. .. .. .. 55
“MAY NIGHT,” by E. M. England . . • . 55
“THE UNKNOWN TRACK,” by Roderic Quinn 55
STORY—
“HELL HATH NO FURY,” by Alys Brown 53, 57
NEXT WEEK.
The Navy’s “Holy Ghost,” a fascinating article
about the Australia II. —by J. H. M. Abbott.
Is Australia’s “History of the War” the last word?
—by a well-informed writer who says it isn’t.
For other features see page 52.
WEDNESDAY, MAY 22, 1929.
REDUCE THE INCOME-TAX!
Canberra these days is a bleak place for
trippers, but the Australian politician’s love
of “conferences” is stronger than his dread
of cold. The village has lately taken leave
of a large party of Works Ministers and their
departmental advisers, who discussed that
colossal tomfool business of the Federal-
aid roads on which, it is admitted, money
has been wasted like water. Now the seven
Premiers are to talk about the unification
of railway gauges and other hardy annuals,
and decide whether “railway privileges for
the wives and families of the Common-
wealth Prime Minister and the State
Premiers” (as one paper puts it) are to be
made uniform. But their business-paper
is barren of proposals for cutting down the
huge cost of the seven Parliaments and
Government Houses (estimated at £1,297,000
in 1926-27), or delivering industry from its
plague of Piddingtons and Brockmans, or
lightening—or even redistributing—the
crushing load of direct taxation.
Yet the taxation matter, for one, calls
deafeningly for attention. Australia staggers
under the crudest and clumsiest and most
oppressive collection of imposts in the world.
There is silly overlapping, to begin with:
taxes on land and incomes and entertain-
ments and death duties are levied (waste-
fully, of course) by both Commonwealth
and States. In the aggregate £87,078,593, or
£l4 ss. per head of population, was brought
in by the tax-gatherers in 1926-27. And
that was before the S. Aus. Butler Gov-
ernment imposed its “emergency” taxation,
which was to have been imposed for one
year and is to be continued indefinitely,
and before the N.S.W. Bavinshaw Govern-
ment bumped up its income-tax rates and
ordered employers to find £2 in the £lOO
of wages and salaries for the Piddington-
Slang child-endowment scheme. Income-
tax revenue amounted to £26,647,000 in
1926-27 and is expected to reach £30,000,000
this year.
This terrific burden is imposed on about
a quarter of a million taxpayers —225,398
residents, 5795 absentees, 490 casuals and
8168 companies were the Commonwealth
figures in 1926-27. The effect on industry
is bad and threatens to become worse, for
the tendency of all concerned, Nationalist,
Laborites and Cockies, is to raise the
income-tax (and often the municipal rates
go up with it) and hang the consequences.
An immediate reduction, with annual reduc-
tions to follow, has become a vital neces-
sity of our situation. It is a reform not
easy of accomplishment in a time of chronic
deficits, but substantial relief could be giveD
if the following programme were adopted in
a non-party spirit:—
Drastic cuts in the cost of government;
royal commissions, Parliamentary public-
works committees, political and public-ser-
vice picnics and unnecessary Government
printing to be ruled out, for a start.
Taxation of incomes to be transferred to
the Commonwealth, and of land, entertain-
ments and dead men’s property 'to the
States. No more stupid and costly over-
lapping.
A Commonwealth tax of at least 5 per
cent, on steamer tickets to over-seas ports.
This could be inexpensively collected and
would fall on people well able to pay.
States to tax entertainment, at the rate
of a penny in the shilling or any part of it.
At present tickets for which less than
2s. 6d. is charged are tax-free in four States,
although picture-theatres are going up every-
where and are everywhere crowded.
Substantial State license fees for race-
course bookmakers: minimum for metro-
politan operators, £lOO. Lowest penalty for
law-breakers, three times the amount of the
lowest tax or six months’ gaol.
Death duties to be brought up to the
British level. This would impose _no hard-
ship on the living and do no injustice to
the dead. The British death duties yield,
roughly, one-ninth of J. Bull’s total revenue
from taxation. Our death duties yielded 1 only
£4,308.090 out of £77,825.000 in 1925-26
and £4,561,000 out of £87,078,000 in 1926-27.
These are the things that the Premiers
ought to consider, and not motions for
adding to the army of railway deadheads.
LAWS THAT ARE NOT LAWS.
The ideal statute law is one that exactly
defines its own scope, provides a fit penalty
for every conceivable breach, and which, if
it has to run counter to common law in
any respect, puts a circle of unbreakable
rivets round each exception. But laws are
not made solely by lawyers, and the law
draughtsmen of the Crown have often an
impossible job ahead of them when they
attempt to reconcile the various alterations
and amendments with the intention of the
new law as it was originally explained to
them.
The intention of the men who framed
Arbitration legislation in Australia and
Maoriland was that the tribunals set up
between employers and workers should have
a good deal of latitude. They were not
to be bound down by ordinary rules of
evidence, procedure and precedent, but were
to make their own rules as they went
along. Both Kingston, of South Australia,
and Reeves, of Maoriland, who share be-
tween them the dubious honor of having
pioneered the cause of compulsory indus-
trial arbitration, were barristers, and should
have known better than to divorce any
British court of justice from the principles
under which British justice is administered.
However, it was done, and the separation has
been a painful and irrational business.
Every president or Judge of every Arbitra-
tion Court in Australasia has been a bar-
rister; each has hoed his own row, fighting
down, more or less successfully, the dictates
of his training, and the conclusions of these
men are so far apart that the High Court,
a purely legal tribunal which ironically
enough is made the court of appeal, has
its hands full whenever it endeavors to
reconcile or correct the findings of the
various Judges.
The Premier of N. S. Wales, a lawyer of
considerable acumen, declared recently that
he did not understand the industrial laws
of Australia and doubted whether the Prime
Minister understood them. Mr. Bruce
hasn’t denied the impeachment, and Mr.
Latham, the Commonwealth Attorney-
General, by his vacillating conduct in issu-
ing and then withdrawing a prosecution
against a leading coalmine owner who
was charged with having locked out his men,
has introduced a little more fog into the
cloud of doubt that envelops the whole
volume of Arbitration law, Federal and
State.
So murky is the outlook that Dr. Evatt,
before Judge Lukin in Sydney recently,
was able, doubtless with some sort of legal
foundation, to argue that what the timber-
workers themselves call a strike is a lock-
out, that whatever it is the Court hasn’t
any jurisdiction to deal with it, and that
a Judge who makes an industrial award
shouldn’t be allowed to adjudicate on ques-
tions of the breach of that award. Beyond
that, it has been persistently alleged by
the timber-workers that Judge Lukin,
exercising his legal prerogatives, took certain
confidential and secret evidence from the
employers, submitted this to an “expert
accountant* —no lurther identification is
given in the Judge’s preamble to his award
—and on the basis of the accountant’s
report, not all of which is disclosed even
in the judgment, came to certain conclu-
sions.
If the allegation has foundation —and the
wording of the Lukin judgment appears to
supply some foundation—it becomes evident
that Arbitration Court procedure has arrived
at a point where the most elementary
rules of justice can be set aside. In any
case, it is clear that the machinery of arbi-
tration is not dependable and nobody knows
how it will function. Mr. Bruce has lately
been talking despairingly of the advisability
of giving up all penal attempts to enforce
the observance of these laws. Fines im-
posed upon the timber-workers’ federation
and one of its officers have not been paid—
and nothing has happened. These laws
evidently are not laws in the accepted
sense of the term, and the sooner the in-
operative statutes are repealed the better.
Laws that can’t be enforced are a fungoid
growth that rapidly spreads and tends to
render the whole body of law ineffective.
WAS GENERAL McCAY TO BLAME?
“Xenophon” offers an answer: —
First, with regard to the desert march,
there is no longer any doubt that, as Bean
states (see p. 288, vol. HI). General McCay
was not to blame for ordering it. Whether
his protest against it was vigorous enough
is another matter. His duty was to make
his protest to Godley, his immediate
superior. That he did so is clear. Godley
merely referred him to Sir Archibald
Murray, then commanding in Egypt, and
McCay was then simply informed that there
were no trains available —that his men would
have to march. McCay had done all that
was possible to an officer of his rank; the
next step would involve the resignation of
his command. By failing to add his voice
to the protest made by McCay, Godley can-
not escape condemnation unless it can be
shown (and on this Bean is silent) that he
referred the matter to Birdwood, his superior.
The ultimate author of the order, Murray,
soon afterwards betrayed his incompetency
further. He was consequently thrown into
the discard.
The shortage of water on the march was
due to a number of factors, all thoroughly
well known to Birdwood and Godley, and
they probably were also familiar to Murray.
That the difficulties should not have been
found insurmountable by active and reason-
ably intelligent staff work on the part of the
2nd Anzac Corps is undoubted; and it is
there and on Murray the blame must, as
far as present information goes, rest.
The choice of the route followed was left
to the discretion of brigade commanders.
Some of them chose the canal bank, others
marched across the desert. It is not made
plain, however, just why McCay got rid of
Brig.-General Irvine for some failure in this
respect. The cause should have been ascer-
tained and plainly stated. It would possibly
have been a guide to future commanders.
A side-light is thrown on the whole busi-
ness by this story. On March 13, 1016, at
Moascar, after Elliott’s brigade had com-
pleted on the previous day the desert march,
he was ordered to take it to Ferry Post
Camp, across the canal, a distance of four
to five miles. An inquiry about water brought
the reply that water would be available at
the new camp. When he got there he found
that no water was then available. At 5 a.m.
on March 14, when men were actually lick-
ing the taps to moisten their lips, and many
of them had been sleepless all night from
the torments of thirst (for they had had no-
thing since the scanty drink of tea at midday
the day before), Elliott rode off to inter-
view Colonel Currie, a Canadian officer, who
had charge of the pump. Currie explained
that he was under strict orders not to
start the pumps before 8 a.m., as it dis-
turbed the H.Q. staff from their slumbers.
Upon hearing this Elliott sprang on his
horse and galloped to 2nd Anzac H.Q. in
Ismalia, where he unearthed a young British
staff officer in blue silk pyjamas. After
ascertaining that this officer was the liaison
officer with the Egyptian civil authorities,
Elliott told him that his men had now
been without water from midday in the pre-
vious day, and that unless the water was
turned on within five minutes he would
march his whole brigade back across the
canal and halt them round Corps Head-
quarters, so that the General (Godley)
could learn exactly how they felt about it,
and promised further that if the civil autho-
rities raised any objection he would provide
a firing party for them with the greatest
joy. Within the five minutes allowed the
young British officer returned to say that
the water was on.
But it must be remembered that Elliott
from that day never received any further
promotion in the A.1.F., although senior to
others who superseded him in France; and
across his records at the Victoria Barracks,
Melbourne, is written to-day words to this
effect: “His bravery and capacity to com-
mand cannot be questioned ; but he is lack-
ing in the restraint and judgment necessary
for further promotion.”
Turning now to the Krithia battle, again
McCay is rightly absolved from all blame.
He was under the command of General
Weston Hunter, of the 29th Division. The
2nd Brigade was ordered to advance, to sup-
port the New Zealanders on their left. The
right flank appears to have been neglected.
Weston Hunter’s orders appear to have
been issued jso late that McCay' had no time
to issue proper brigade orders for his attack
or even confer at any length with his bat-
talion commanders where the omission might
have been detected and pointed out, and
hence the exposure of the brigade’s right
flank, of which “Miltiades” (B. 8/5/’29)
justly complains. But a far more vital error
lay in the fact that the advance was ordered
to be made over a glacis-like slope devoid
of cover, against a concealed enemy armed
with modern rifles and machine-guns. For this
folly Weston Hunter must alone be blamed.
Hamilton, who should have been on shore,
was far away. He cannot escape respon-
sibility altogether. Birdwood cannot be in-
volved. H.e was at Anzac.
It may be taken with regard to F'romelles
that Bean has disclosed sufficient evidence
to finally establish that McCay was not to
blame for the order to attack. He might
have made some protest, it is true. But the
Birdwood-White combination was surely
under a duty to the Commonwealth as the
custodians of its citizens’ lives; and if, as
Bean states, they were throughout opposed
to the attack, they cannot escape from the
damning circumstances that they allowed this
hopeless thing to proceed without protest.
The other unfortunate circumstances that
“Miltiades’’ justly comments upon were
simply due to this, that the locality was
totally unsuitable for offensive action. The
enemy had perfect observation from concret 1
lookouts on the Aubers Ridge—approach
except by saps was impossible by day—and
a few well-placed shells (an easy matter
with such perfect observation) rendered them
impassable.
The only conclusion one can gather is that
heavy responsibility lies on llaking, who
afterwards attempted to throw the blame
upon the infantry. Later lie tried to blame
the artillery, whereas he had previous to the
attack assured Haig that he was satisfied
the artillery could do the work required.
Haig’s action in the matter was weak. He
appears to have been far too easily satisfied
by Haicing, particularly as the latter was
already known as more or less of a failure.
A few more disclosures of the like character
may cause us to wonder if Haig was really
the strong, silent man he is accounted.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Is Australia Over-populated?
South Australia opened a new session of
its Parliament prematurely, and the
“speech” expressed regret at the hurry and
bustle, while offering a sufficient explana-
tion. It was an urgent, anxious, hungry
case of inventing public works, to be exe-
cuted with loan money of course, and of
finding the loan money with which to exe-
cute the public works, and thus tackling
the chronic spectre of unemployment. It
is an oft-told tale, and the spectre pervades
every State, and does so all the time nowa-
days, and the biggest and most expensive
loan only gives partial relief, and even
that only lasts as long as the borrowed
money lasts. Then everything has to be
started afresh.
So the position is that unless the Aus-
tralian people get a complete set of new
methods and new ideas, and scrap their
old political gods, Australia is an over-
populated land and in serious need of an
emigration policy.
State loan expenditure about doubled
between 1910 and 1912. It doubled again
between 1912 and 1922. It increased nearly
another 38 per cent, between 1922 and the
record year 1928. Assuming that every
person employed, directly or indirectly,
on loan works costs £5 per week, the
number maintained would be like this:—
1912 .. .. 62,800
1922 .. .. 123,420
1928 . . . . 171,712
Adding to these wives and young families
and other occasional dependants (a pre-
ference is naturally given to married men
with families), this means that not much
short of one-tenth of the population is
supported on loan works. Yet the number
who are not so supported, but feel that
they need to be, is large and increases faster
than the provision made for them. And the
new works created by all these people
with all this outlay of loan money appear
to yield nothing towards the interest bill
they involve. The productive ones are not
nearly productive enough, and the unpro-
ductive ones more than eat up what pro-
duction there is. Most of them being
invented or accelerated for purely relief
purposes at a time of high interest and high
costs, nothing else could be expected.
The number of males directly or in-
directly employed on loan works is 274
per 1000 of the Australian population, and
there are many .besides who want to get
on the list. The number of males registered
as unemployed in England, Wales and
Scotland is only about 24 per 1000 of the
population. Great Britain puts its unem-
ployed, or many of them, “on the dole,”
which is a miserable and demoralising busi-
ness to the individual, but the cost is at
least paid out of the community’s own
money. Australia puts them on the loan,
often on the foreign loan, and piles up in-
credible interest bills.
If sane reform is ruled out —and hitherto
it has been ruled out —then an emigration
policy must be considered. The single and
unencumbered man, who is cheaper to shift
than the married man and more likely to
do well in a new environment, might be
specially catered for. If he wants employ-
ment on loan works he might be told that
the only thing available is a ticket for
some more promising land which has indi-
cated its willingness to accept surplus in-
habitants from over-populated Australia.
It would be a pity to lose the unen-
cumbered man, a great pity, but if the
country’s methods make it less able to
support him every year, we must put up
with the consequences. He may return
when we recover our sanity.
Kind Words to Moore of Queensland.
A first duty of the new Ministry is to enact
that the Federal electoral roll shall serve
for State purposes also. This will elimin-
ate the ghosts who have been a standing
jest since the Labor Government put 89,221
new names on the electoral lists in its
first Parliament (1915-1918), thereby making
State elections sure, even if Federal ones
where State spooks were not currency might
be lost. This should be combined with an


THE QUEENSLAND CARAVAN.
SHEIK McCORMACK (to Effendi Moore): “You observe that I hand it over to you in splendid order and all up-to-date. So we expect you to do 30 miles an hour
with the outfit.”
EFFENDI MOORE: “Splendid order and up-to-date—struth!”
equitable readjustment of electorates; and
over and above that a weeding out of the
worst electors -is called for. Conviction for
a considerable list of offences should carry
with it automatically exclusion from the
voting list, and consequently from Parlia-
ment. The list should include revolutionary
propaganda, violence directed against per-
sons who refuse to join in illegal strikes
and those unpleasant offences which
characterise the degenerate. The expulsion
of the glaringly unfit from the ruling class
is thfe most elementary kind of precaution,
like the cancelling of the license of the
homicidal motorist.
The rebuilding of so dilapidated a State
is necessarily a gigantic task. Queensland
is by far the least cultivated of the States,
both in proportion to area and population;
as regards live stock, in proportion to
area it is a poor fourth; it is the only
State in which factory population is dying
out owing to crushing taxes and other
causes; and when the utterly demoralised
State railway system is thrown in, any
reforming Ministry has a long furrow to
plough. The calamity of 1893 was a bank
or private-enterprise crash, and not a
Government disturbance. It was slowly
righted because the lost capital was written
off, and dividends were suspended, in some
cases for many years. The immensely
larger capital that is lost now can’t be
written off without repudiating the public
debt, and dividends can’t be stopped with-
out defaulting on the interest. That, of
course, makes things difficult. But they
are not impossible. The very fact that
there is so much room for agricultural,
pastoral and manufacturing expansion is
all in favor of the man with the job of
rebuilding.
The new man is understood to have pro-
mised that his Ministry will restrict the
spending of loan money to enterprises which
will pay their way. He couldn’t promise
less. But with construction costs and
interest at the present height, there are
no such enterprises. The Federal authority
might possibly do something if it took
the situation seriously. As the doge of
the Loan Council it should be able to
refuse the Commonwealth’s endorsement to
State borrowings except on a most limited
scale, perhaps one-quarter the present aver-
age, which, after all, would only be getting
back to 1911, or one-fifth, which would be
getting back to 1910. This would give
Moore and others a chance, for their
retrenchment would be done for them, and
they would only have the restoration of
political decency to worry about.
But Moore must do many things whether
the Federal Government assists in this
way or not. And the doing is not going to
be easy or comfortable. Not even a rich
State can make a fool of itself for 14
years and not suffer consequences. There
will have to be a complete readjustment
of standards—not so much the standards of
wages and of living as of work. A great
deal more of that will have to be done.
Even then in the readjustment there will be
suffering and hardship. But there would
be a great deal more if the job of coming
back to earth were delayed.
♦
Work for Law Reform Commission.
Dear Bulletin,— lt is easy to speak of Law
Reform in N. S. Wales in the abstract.
Here are a few concrete questions which
a commission constituted, on lines previ-
ously suggested by me might usefully con-
sider :
(1) The adoption of the Judicature system
introduced in England in 1873, after many
years’inquiry, and which has been adopted in
all other parts of the British Dominions (ex-
cept South Africa, where the Roman-Dutch
system obtains), more especially in regard
to what is known as “the fusion of Law and
Equity” ; in other words, the application of
equitable remedies and defences in all juris-
dictions of the Supreme Court. If anybody
thinks that the retention of those old dis-
tinctions is a harmless kind of thing, let
him glance at the recent High Court decision
in the case of David Jones, Ltd. v. Leven-
thal Bros.
(2) The abolition of the old system of
pleading, with its superabundance of tech-
nicalities and the liability of just claims or
honest defences being defeated on pettifog-
ging eighteenth-century quibbles. In Eng-
land a rational system of pleading was intro-
duced by the same Act 56 years ago, and has
been followed in practically every other part
of the British Dominions, including the
other States of the Commonwealth and in
the High Court of Australia.
(3) The amalgamation of the two
branches of the legal profession. This has
been effected in practically all the British
Dominions outside Great Britain except in
N. S. Wales.
(4) The establishment of some degree of
uniformity in the procedure of all our
superior courts of justice. At present even
the formal parts of an affidavit differ accord-
ing to the jurisdiction you are in.
(5) The question of the abolition of trial
by jury in civil cases, which has been
effected practically right throughout the
British Dominions except in New South
W ales
(6) The complete revision of the legal
rules of evidence (in civil and criminal
cases), many of which have outlived their
usefulness and prevent some of the most
important facts in a case being brought to
light. .
(7) The adoption of the practice of
employing skilled assessors to sit with a
Judge in the trial of cases involving tech-
nical or scientific knowledge (doctors, engi-
neers, architects, marine surveyors, etc.), as
is now done in the Marine Court, Workers’
Compensation Court, etc. This will mini-
mise the evils arising from the well-known
unconscious bias of expert witnesses. _
(8) The restoration of the operation of
the Commercial Causes Act, which appears
to have fallen into desuetude and which may
be made a great boon to the commercial
community if the English practice is
adopted.
(9) The complete revision of the rules
relating to Poor Prisoners’ Defence and
Poor Persons’ Legal Remedies (Legal Aid).
(10) The extension of the principle of
arbitration — not industrial arbitration- —
which at present is frequently more unsatis-
factory than litigation itself.
(11) The conferring on Judges of further
powers to bring about conciliation in proper
cases.
(12) The abolition of the surviving frag-
ments of imprisonment for debt.
(13) The question whether certain Judges
should not be expressly assigned to criminal
cases, just as now we have a Divorce Judge,
a Probate Judge and a Bankruptcy Judge.
(14) The possibility of securing some
degree of uniformity in the imposition of
sentences for criminal offences.
(15) The question of the appointment of
a Public Defender.
Yours, etc., Daniel Levy.
Two Pounds a Vote!
A special messenger recently left Cooktown
(Q.) with three ballot-boxes for use in
the State elections. He was to deliver them
at Dunbar, Macaroni and Rutland Plains.
There were about 15 votes to be polled at
the last place, about 10 at Dunbar and two
at Macaroni, one of these being the special
messenger’s own, to be recorded in the
time he could spare from acting as pre-
siding officer. The other elector is the
manager of Macaroni station.
The journey is 600 miles over country
that, at present especially, is difficult even
for packhorses, and it will occupy six to
eight weeks. The messenger gets £6O-odd
for the job, which means an average of over
£2 for every vote polled.
Can’t someone think up a less expensive
method?
♦
The Ass and the Auto.
A considerable lump of the burden of taxa-
tion under which middle-class people in
Australia groan is due to the high cost of
converting highways into speedways. A
proportion of this cost is borne directly by
motor-car users, but these, so far as records
of accidents and fatalities are concerned,
appear to fall into two classes—the more
or less responsible rich, who can be shot
at for damages if they cause loss to life,
limb or property by reckless driving; and
irresponsible persons who are not taxpayers
and w’hose very ownership of expensive
motor vehicles is a profound mystery. In
between there is a good-sized body of
owner-drivers of moderate means, but
members of this class seldom figure in the
black list.
Accidents happen to motorists owing to
a variety of causes, mainly preventable, but
the most prolific of all is unreasonably high
speed. In the suburbs, and even in the
central areas of most Australian cities, it
is a common thing to see cars tearing
through a densely-populated district, on a
road with a dozen intersections to the
mile, at 40 to 60 miles an hour. Motor-
cycles, which are capable of more speed than
cars, taken class against class, and which
are generally steered by youths who regard
anything less than 60 as slow, are an even
worse menace. On any save the very best
of macadam roads, and on these only for
short stretches, such speeds would be im-
possible. Add to these high speeds the
fact that people are given drivers’ licenses,
especially at certain suburban and country
centres, who have no right to be turned
loose upon the roads armed with a lethal
weapon, and we can cease to wonder at the
week-end butchers’ bill.
Apart from badly-needed improvements
in most traffic departments, Sydney above
all, the question that arises is whether it
is worth while to pile up millions of pounds
of debt to enable joy-riders to put up their
choice performances killing and maiming
themselves and the unfortunate pedestrians
who happen to step into their way. Good
roads are as much a national asset as good
railroads, but the construction of enorm-
ously expensive racetracks, whose only
ascertainable effect upon national earning-
power is that they materially reduce rail-
way revenue, looks more like pure insanity
than good business.
*
A Chance for the Feminists.
Sydney Feminist Club has issued a state-
ment which mentions, amongst other things,
that “within the last six months 160 men
have been charged in the courts with
having molested women and girls. In most
cases the accused were acquitted.” The
manifesto proceeds:—
“Every effort is made by the counsel of the
accused to discredit the girl’s statements arid
take away her reputation. She may be of
irreproachable character—still, if she has no
witness, she is not to be believed.”
All this is true, and it is the chief reason
why, during the period stated, twice 160
men were not lined up for offences against
girls. It may be taken for granted, further,
that some of those who were not charged
were the most heinous offenders of all.
The more innocent and less hardened the
victim, the more difficult the police find it
to persuade her to proceed.
But what is to be done about it? If
a girl’s unsupported statement is to be be-
lieved, even the statement of a girl “of
irreproachable character” (which may only
mean one who has not been criminally con-
victed), then no man in the community
will be safe from blackmail—a far more
difficult crime to cope with than assault.
The Feminists would do a great service if,
instead of making forlorn-hope efforts to
change rules of evidence which have stood
the test of generations, they concentrated
in another direction. Any barrister or solici-
tor who is worth his fee knows a witness
of truth in an assault case for what she is
after she has been in the box for a very
few minutes. He is also in a position to
know a great deal more about his client’s
character than the Judge or jury. If, in
face of such knowledge, he proceeds to
hurl all the offal at the probable victim of
an assault which the probable committer of
it has supplied with the object of saving his
skin, then it is up to the Feminists. Let
them satisfy themselves about the merits
of the girl’s case (a simple matter of satis-
fying themselves about her real character),
and, if she emerges successfully, let them
keep an eye on the counsel who defamed
her. If he is found to be specialising
in such defences, they would be justified in
going to war with him, professionally as well
as socially, and the first to applaud would
be the Bar Councils and Law Institutes,
which disapprove of the prostitution of
advocacy, but can do very little to stop it.
Organised femininity, which has done so
much to protect animals from brutes, could
do as much for girls if certain obvious
steps were taken.
♦
Dear Bulletin, —You say (l/5/’29) “Many
an Australian host still feels that he ought
to apologise to the guests when he puts the
wine of his country on his table.” But as
we import less than £BO,OOO worth of other
people’s wine, the position isn’t bad as
regards this liquor. There are two con-
spicuous drink-snobs in Australia, though.
One is the man who wouldn’t offer his
guests any but imported whisky (£1,104,330
worth of it there was last year). The other
wants this community to be a wine-drinker
like the Italian and the Portuguese, rather
than a beer-drinker like the Norwegian
Swede, Dane and Englishman. Perhaps this
is because it was unusual and underbred in
the old three-bottle days for an English
gentleman to do his nightly sozzle on ale,
but it was orthodox for him to be a gouty
mass in a Bath-chair at 50 through swallow-
ing port. Beer may be a plebeian drink, but
it represents a bigger Australian industry
than wine, and there is patriotic sentiment
about it: What is more national than the
spectacle of an Australian hoodlum getting
three bottles of Australian beer into his
hip-pocket at once, and using an Australian
adjective as he does so? —Yours, etc., Sol
MALArROP.
»
George Morgan, who conducts a stall in
the Hobart hospital grounds, decided that
the fence could stand a coat of paint
and offered to do the job as a donation to
the hospital. The Board thanked him and
told him to get on. After Morgan had
been at work a few days, the Chief Inspector
of Factories notified the hospital people that
they were committing a breach of the Wages
Board Act. They must either pay Morgan
the prescribed wages, or he must employ
someone else to do the work. Thank
God for our democratic freedom!


OAEL/ c
UAL • RESERVE
torvd WKisky
RED, WHITE and BLUE
WHISKY
Gaelic Special Reserve
DEARER BUT BETTER
ORME, KEIGWIN & CO., LTD.
269-271 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN AGENTS: JAMES HENTY & CO., 499 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND /.GENTS: B. SEPPELT & SONS, LTD., 444 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
£jfc.EL/£
i S ky
as\d
'
POLITICAL
POINTS
Last year the Federal revenue was
£76,670,222 and the expenditure £82,120,259.
With nine months gone this year promises to
be worse. And the worsenoss would be more
glaring only that fewer public works have
been paid for out of revenue (which probably
means charging more to loans), and some
sinking-fund payments have apparently been
postponed till later in the day. The Bruce-
Page Government still pays its baby bonus,
and hopes that matters will right themselves.
Poor as its showing is, Labor still has
more members in Queensland than it is
entitled to on a count of heads. The N.C.P.
crowd improved on their Senate score by
62,000; Labor added only 12,000. An
QUEENSLAND'S! NEW PREMIER'S
NEW SMILE
analysis of the nearly-cor. plete returns shows
that the N.C.P.’s scored 300,500 votes, Labor
160,000, Independents 11,500 and others
7600. The N.C.P.’s thus got a seat for every
7330 votes cast in their favor; Labor got a
seat for every 6400 votes.
Some years ago the N.S.W. authorities
made a prompt success at deporting two
strange agitators, who only wanted to help
raise a row in Ireland, where it would have
done us little or no barm. If nothing can
be done under State law to shift some of
the strange people who are making so much
row right here, further particulars as to the
reason why are wanted.
Any State may demand Federal military
assistance in case of “domestic violence.”
But the domestic violence can’t be proved
till it has happened; and in view of the
reluctance of Federal Governments to graut
military assistance and of State Govern-
ments to ask for it, lest they be cursed for
ever as hungering to butcher the poor, it
is always decided to let the Gardens do their
worst, and trust that they may prove mere
bags of wind. Australia is trusting a lot to
its luck these days.
The dismal timber strike drags along, and
skim-milk politicians talk without end about
holding conferences to negotiate a settle-
ment. There is nothing to confer about except
that the award must be obeyed, especially
as it inflicts no injury oii the employees.
After this has soaked in during many hungry,
miserable chaotic weeks, a good few Aus-
tralians begin to rebel at being bossed by a
committee composed mainly of outsiders, who
take charge of the poor Australian’s affairs.
But if the too-casual Australians don’t hurry
they will find their billets satisfactorily filled
and themselves superfluous.
It was revealed last week that the com-
mittee controlling the timber-workers’ strike
had distributed £50,000 in strike pay, and
other unions had parted with £lO,OOO. All
this cash has been raised from working
unionists whose whole duty it is to pay up
and keep their mouths shut. The levy of 2s.
a week per head is proving inadequate, and
3s. has been suggested. Tbe only unionists
who are getting any money worth mentioning
are the workers who deliberately flouted the
award of their own law. The carpenters,
masons, etc., get nothing but oratory and a
daily invitation to walk round the town
behind the ex-parson Garden’s cosy-looking
overcoat.
A congregation of agitated State Premiers
•will shortly invite the Prime Minister to
make an end of the system by which his
arbitration Judge fixes a wage every now
and again, nominally based on the cost of
living, for State railway servants. It is
awkward, even if it is legal, which has been
disputed, for a State Railway Department
to be suddenly struck with a fine of £400,009
per annum, imposed by a functionary who,
sitting in another jurisdiction, would pro-
bably be rather apologetic about fining a
brutal-assault man a fiver. One remedy is
that the Commonwealth should take over the
State railways and their debts and awards,
and the unification problem to boot. Another
is that the Commonwealth should send along
its own cheque to cover the increases ordered
by its own courts. The people have to pay,
and the Commonwealth might as well collect
from them as the State.
Professor J. B. Brigden, who resigns the
Chair of Economics in Tas. University to
take up a two-thousand-a-year job as a sort
of Reconciliation Officer between overseas
shipowners and shippers, very nearly trebles
his salary by the move; and again it is re-
marked that Private Enterprise is always
outbidding the State for brains. But the
State employs and pays so many regardless
of brains that it simply can’t afford to pay
the few according to brains. It is only one
of a hundred cases where we think we should
have it both ways—and we can’t.
A quaint feature of the Sydney end of
the timber-workers’ illegal strike is the
friendly co-operation of the police and civic
authorities whenever the Communists in
charge of the revolt desire to stage a mass
defiance of the law. Two processions, one
to burn ballot-papers and an effigy of Judge
Lukin and the other to boo Judge Lukin—
both ended in rioting and violence —were
conducted under what was virtually police
supervision and protection. A “secret” mass
meeting, guarded by pickets, held for the
purpose of inciting the strikers .to go on
striking, was held in the basement of the
Town Halil of course with the sanction and
approval of the City Commissioners. They
manage these things less leniently in Russia.
Treasurer Stevens, of N.S.W., who may
have to raise another million, of new taxes
on top of last year’s new taxes, has issued
another warning. He said that last year’s
loan expenditure was the biggest on the
State’s record, but he didn’t say why he and
Bavin made it the biggest, nor why Butten-
shaw promised to be really lavish next year.
He spoke as if it was the act of Providence.
But lie added that the riot must diminish,
for the money can’t be found. He also re-
marked that the Australian bonds for which
the Yankees lately gave us £92 are now
selling at £B4, which he regarded as a clear
sign that Uncle, after a brief acquaintance,
is tired of us. It might be added that Aus-
tralia has paid no interest abroad for about
seven years except with new lOU’S—which
fact certainly hasn’t escaped Uncle’s notice.
“Mango” : The stranger in Townsville will
be amazed to see a line-up of bicycles each
afternoon, apparently for a road race. From
300 to 500 join in, their riders with one foot
on the pedal eagerly awmiting the pistol. But
instead of starting to a pistol tbe railway
workshops lend their steam whistle for the
purpose. Gradually it dawns upon the visi-
tor that the road-racers are the employees of
the workshops going home per bike. The 10
or 15 minutes’ grace allowed before knock-off
time to dust off bikes and smoke a cigarette
and discuss things is only another small
trouble awaiting the new Government’s
attention.
The fact that Hugh D. Mclntosh’s address
is Broome Park, and the rumor that he is
a millionaire, will not
hurt him with Labor
in modern Britain.
Labor threatens —in
the Commons, at any
rate —to become the
party of the rich.
Amongst the Labor
candidates in the
coming struggle are
yonng Strachey
(grandson of a wealthy
baronet), the socialist
son of Prime Minister
Baldwin, Lady Clare
Annesley (daughter of
the fifth Earl of Annes-
ley) and a host of
business men. Some
holders of safe Labor
seats are J. 11.
Thomas, said to be “a
5000-a-year man”;
Harry Day, who made
Hugh D.
a fortune out of the theatre; George Gillett,
a successful city banker; and Sir Oswald
Mosley. Mosley inherited entailed estates
worth a quarter of a million with the title,
and his wife, through her descent from
Leiter, the Chicago wheat speculator, is
worth £25,000 p.a.
Ex-Premier McCormack adduced as the
main factor in the defeat of his party in
Queensland “a general desire for change of
Government.” It strikes one as a good, sound
proposition, at which no opponent is likely
to cavil.
While the authority of the Commonwealth
seems to be a negligible quantity outside the
Federal Territory, it is a regular raging lion
in its own little sanctuary. Somehow the
gist of a confidential document dealing with
the government of Canberra got into the
local Times. The disclosure of one of its
darkest secrets made the Ministry see red,
and there have been midnight raids on the
newspaper office, on the home of a civil ser-
vant, and even on the home of a Times
reporter. Charges of treason are anxiously
awaited.
Within the month the new Maoriland Gov-
ernment has looked over and condemned two
of the biggest railway works endorsed by the
Coates party—one the Rotorua-Taupo line,
which was certainly a bad investment; the
other a deviation at the big inland town of
Palmerston North. The two were to cost a
million and more. The excuse for stopping the
Palmerston North work, a £700,000 job, is
that it was approved in 1924, and that the
traffic needs anticipated when the work was
approved have not arisen. It is true, but it
might not have been noticed if the districts
hadn’t returned Oppositionists to Parlia-
ment.
A Labor Government of any sort—-munici-
pal. State or Federal —must function as an
employer, and if it is dominated by persons
who devote their lives to preaching that the
only good employer is a dead one, it very
speedily gets into a tangle. Latest appendix
to the volume is the experience of Glebe
(suburb of! Sydney) Municipal Council. All
the aldermen are Laborites, and the efforts
of Labor Mayor Walsh to exert some sort
of discipline over employees have been bit-
terly resented. Matters came to a head
when the Mayor sacked a council employee
who came to a council meeting and made
what the Mayor reckoned was an abusive
interjection. At the next meeting the
employee was reinstated without loss of
pay, and the Mayor has ironically invited all
council employees who want a week’s holi-
day buckshee to come along and make nasty
remarks at council meetings.
Impressed by what non-Labor unity has
achieved in Queensland, the majority of the
37 who face Labor’s 28 in Vic. Assembly
are wondering what they can do to get to-
gether before next election. The Cockies and
the Progs, have both tried unsuccessfully to
be Labor’s tail—the Allanites in 1924 (be-
cause they wanted a wheat pool which they
didn’t get) and the Dunstanites in 1927-28
(because they wanted to show their indepen-
dence). If McPherson could work another
miracle of the Fishes, the rest could be man-
aged easily enough. The 27 Country mem-
bers of tbe three non-Labor parties could
form one rural group of 27. with the 10
metropolitan Nats, and assorted Libs, as a
city wing. But it would be necessary, of
course, for some of the old hands to drop
their fish; and that’s where the miracle-
worker is needed.
The renewal of a Queensland loan of
£12,403,734 in London has excited “favorable
comment.” Why shouldn’t it? The original
affair was a State liability only, and any
one might, have doubts about a State with
such a record. The new one is a Common-
wealth affair, and under the new arrange-
ment all the States and all united Australia
are responsible.
A sequel to the ex-parson Garden’s sug-
gestion that 1500 strikers should mai’ch
through Myer’s shop and do a bit of looting
on. the way is the banning by the Vic. Gov-
ernment of all night processions, and the
decision that processions will only be allowed
in the daytime when the Commissioner of
Police is willing. It is to be hoped that he
won’t be willing often. The chief effect of
all such orgies is to satisfy the vanity of a
few and interfere with the livelihood of
many who have to use the streets in the way
of business.
Melbourne’s new bridge at Spencer-street
is reported to be making great headway, the
only trouble being that no provision has been
made for an approach on the other side.
Town-planners say that unless a direct route
is made to St. Kilda-road, no particular good
wall be done to the traffic congestion in the
city. The present Government shoves the
blame on Hogan. That gentleman, when
Premier, rushed the bill down in an incom-
plete condition so that he could claim to have
honored at least one of his pledges. Still,
the McPhersons have been several months in
office, and a glance at a map of the district
would have made the situation clear.
Fears are growing that the ex-parson
Garden won’t get away to Russia, after all,
to pretend to represent Australia at the
motley Pan-Pacific Conference. Proceedings
were so far advanced that a Red Inter-
national person named Voigt was chosen to
understudy the ex-parson on the Labor
Council. No anti-Communist had a look
in, and very few Australians. The
workers were urged to supply the funds for
the party, which was to be 12 Commu-
nists strong, and then six. But the hunger
and misery of the timber strike have made
a difficulty, and the whole bunch of first-class
passages may be cancelled unless Moscow
comes to light with the money.
Those Australian politicians who have
announced their intention of handing back
the New Guinea mandated territories to Ger-
many whenever they return to power might
consider some information given in the Com-
mons by the Secretary of State for Foreign
Affairs. It was to the effect that the man-
dates are derived from the Treaty of Ver-
sailles and not from the League of Nations,
and were “definitely allotted” to the present
holders. From which it appears that Aus-
tralia bas no more right to give New Guinea
back to Germany than any other trustee has
a right to blew the proceeds.
Sir Arthur Duckham, the Big One of the
Medium-sized Four who lately toured Aus-
tralia as financial and industrial advisers
of the Government, thinks Australian Labor-
loaders are all right, and is convinced that
DUCKHAM AND JOCK.
the Federal and State Arbitration Courts
are at the bottom of all Australia’s indus-
trial troubles. They are not; but they
greatly help. What else could happen with
two bodies practically competing for the
unions’ wage-settling business? It’s this
competition that is so deadly; and that can
soon be ended by simply abolishing the
Federal Arbitration Courts. They have only
been turned on to their present job by a
long course of trickery—in short, by what
for all practical purposes is a fraud on the
Constitution.
There is likely to be a scramble for Nor-
man Falkiner’s South Melbourne seat in the
Vic. Uppah House. Already a bunch of Nats,
or near-Nats, are in the field, and Labor is
bound to have a shot. The new man will have
a run for five years. The old “landed pro-
perty qualification” is not such a handicap
nowadays, as anyone who owns, unencum-
bered, almost any old shack is entitled to
nominate.
HABET!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Ex-Premier McCormack attributed the over-
whelming defeat of Labor at the Queensland elec-
tions to a general desire for a change of Govern-
ment.’’
Twice seven years to office fast they clove,
With few to hinder them and none to shift;
Twice seven years they ran the show and
strove
(Presumably) the masses to uplift.
But, soon or late, all innings have their ends,
Regimes the most enduring come to wreck;
Lo ! the inevitable axe descends
And Bill McCormack gets it in the neck.
His party lorded it and ruled the roost,
Promised, performed (or didn’t), bor-
rowed, spent,
Were blessed and sworn at, lauded and
traduced,
Knew all that place could bring and power
meant.
Colossus-like their country they bestrode,
Sweeping the House designed to be a check
On hasty legislation from their road—
And now McCormack gets it in the neck!
ITad he but read the portents that appear
So obvious now he might—perhaps he
would—
Have left betimes for some serener sphere,
Lit out for safety while the going was
good.
To put, in proletariats your trust
Just as in princes is a risky step,
As Aristides found, surnamed the Just,
Who got it, like McCormack, in the neck.
The very masses wearied of their chief;
Theirs was the craving that a man might
feel
For mutton-chops after long months of beef
Or, surfeited with pork, for breast of veal.
All dynasties must crash—’tis passing
strange
Perhaps. that this remained so long on
deck—
Demos himself insisted on a change
And Bill McCormack got it in the neck!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Mullarula” : I was one of several Diggers
sitting on the sands of Egypt and cursing
various regulations as unnecessary and vexa-
tious. At last Darkie looked up from the
shirt which he was intently studying. “You
blokes make me tired,” he remarked. “Be-
cause you can’t see the reason for a thing
you think there is none. We useter think
there was no need for that, stiff eyesight test
before we left Aussie, but we know better
now. No man without damn good eyesight
has a chance to find the little cows when
they get into the seams of these grey flannel
shirts.” And there was none to contradict
him.
* =!:
“A. Jack” : Mother was a frugal old soul,
and drummed into me from infancy the need
of putting something by for a rainy day. As
a dutiful son I followed her advice, but I
wish I hadn’t, for a period of unemploy-
ment has taught me the falseness of her
economics. My neighbor Bill and his wife,
who have always spent every penny of their
income, receive Government relief, union re-
lief and unostentatious relief from many
sources. I, who have imprisoned every pos-
sible shilling against the rainy day my
GOT THROUGH VERY WELL.
FATUOUR ASS: “Did you have much trouble in learning to sing?"
TIRED GIRL: “No, the neighbors were very good about it. Only three made any really
serious complaint.”
mother warned ,me about, have to exhaust
my savings before I can get relief from the
State, am not expected to claim from the
union because I have a few bob in the bank,
and am despised by my neighbors for my
meanness. I am slugged twice a year for an-
insurance premium that hits me heavily, con-
sidering my earnings, and the wife never
fails to point out to me that, in these days
of widow’s pension and child endowment,
it is a waste of good cash. And when it
matures I will have had just enough to debar
myself and her from the old-age pension for
a year or two. My education has been com-
pleted now, and from henceforth I am going
to be as broke as the rest.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: With a deplorable lack of con-
sideration for science, the sun persists in
staging its eclipses where the visibility is
most poor. For the second time in the last
few years expeditions from all parts of the
world have journeyed to Sumatra, set up the
most costly apparatus outside Medan, and
been granted very indifferent results. There
were moments on May 9 when the sun shone
brightly, but at one o’clock, when totality
commenced, the stage was completely obscured
by clouds. Great things hinged on a clear view,
including a further investigation into the
Einstein theory by British and German
groups. It is a delusion that the tropics
are characterised by everlasting sunshine.
Half the year the sun is no more frequent a
visitor than it is in Melbourne, and during
the other half it is scarcely seen at all. As
usual, the Chinese in Medan kicked up a
frightful row with crackers and improvised
gongs, but the notion that they do it to scare
the dragon who is ingurgitating the sun is
out of date. Like the Australian boy who
burns powder to Guy Fawkes, they just love
the row.
* * * *
“Morkrum” : Recently the Adelaide branch
of a firm which has the same telegraphic
address in all the capitals lodged a wire for
the Sydney office. Inadvertently, the typist
marked Adelaide in the address, and an
alteration was made somewhat faintly in
pencil. The message was “gelled,” along
with a string of Sydney biz, and put on the
wire. But the gellist had followed the typed
copy and made it Adelaide instead of Sydney.
Sydney returned it, and later the Adelaide
branch received a copy of its own telegram.
A complaint was ’phoned to the telegraph
branch; the telegram was picked out and
handed to another gellist. He duplicated the
error, the message again made the long round
trip, and the Adelaide office received a second
copy of their own message. This time they
’phoned the Superintendent of Telegraphs
personally, and on its next circuit the mes-
sage was plucked off the wire at Sydney and
at last delivered. It had been careering
between the two cities for seven hours!
* =l= * *
“P.M.”: When our unit occupied a Bel-
gian village near Charleroi just after the
Armistice the officers naturally collared all
the good billets, and about 40 men were
allotted the upstairs portion of a dirty old
barn. The senior corporal went to the adju-
tant to complain about the accommodation,
and that worthy arrived to inspect. Walk-
ing gingerly across the floor of the loft,
which consisted, of about 18 inches of very
dirty thatch, He suddenly went through.
Picking himself unhurt out of the manure on
the ground floor, he ordered us new billets.
“A bit of luck he struck that weak patch m
the floor,” I remarked to the corporal.
“Luck be damned!” was the reply; “it took
the hoys half an hour to dig it out ready
for him.”
* * * *
“Runa”: A Sydney woman had divorced
her husband, the co-respondent being a
woman she had never seen. Quite recently
the sometime petitioner was on _ a visit to
Melbourne when she was injured in a motor-
car accident and spent some weeks in hos-
pital with a broken thigh. The case had
received some publicity, and, among other
visitors, the patient received a lot of atten-
tion from a lady who represented herself as
a casual hospital visitor with plenty of spare
time for good works. She gave the name of
Mrs Brown, and kept the invalid lavishly
supplied with books, fruit and flowers. The
only thing that puzzled the Sydney woman
was the cessation of Mrs. Brownes interest
in her immediately she left the institution
and returned to her hotel; but the puzzle
was solved one morning when she saw her
erstwhile husband escorting the hospital visi-
tor along Collins-street. Still, even now she
doesn’t know whether her supplanter’s atten-
tions to her were given at the instigation of
her husband or whether it was a case of
conscience, or perhaps the sympathy of a
disillusioned second wife towards the pre-
vious victim of her consort’s idiosyncrasies.
*•* * *
“Avon”: A little while ago a pleasant-
spoken gentleman who said lie was D. G.
Sullivan, M.P., a Laborite of renown in
Maoriland, was entertained generously by
the largely-Labor municipal council of Lith-
gow (N.S.W.). The visitor knew the name
of every Labor member in the Shivery Isles,
and was sound on biographical and geo-
graphical details. But he wasn’t Dan Sulli-
van, and was bowled out by a man from
Newcastle who had once met the real Sulli-
van and retained a vivid recollection of that
gentleman’s beautiful rolling forelock, and
who also happened to know that the genuine
Dan drinks nothing stronger than tea. The
pseudo-Sullivan had no forelock and a great
thirst, and after a few inquiries had been
made the Law- grabbed him. The sequel
happened a little later when a genuine
Maoriland Labor M.P., Harry Armstrong,
who shares with Sullivan and others the
Labor representation of Christchurch City,
arrived in Lithgow and called on the Mayor.
He was cross-examined as if he were wanted
for burglary, and it was not until cable-
grams had crossed the Tasman that it was
IF HE’D ONLY
“If I’d had any brains when
I was a young fellow
I’d be travelling round
the world now.”
“Would your-and what
would your wife be
doing?”
“I wouldn’t have a wife.”
decided to give him a reception. Even then
the sergeant of police was invited, too, in
case there should be any untoward develop-
ments. Ex-Premier Lang, who had accepted
the man who wasn’t Sullivan as if he were,
also turned a cold, suspicious eye on Arm-
strong when he called, and the Maorilander
who hadn’t swindled anybody returned to
his native fern with rather ruffled feelings. ,
-j. * *
“Ratoon” : There have been complaints in
North Queensland recently over the appoint-
ment of an. Italian J.P. on the ground that
lie can hardly speak English. It recalls a
Yankee yarn of an old Pennsylvanian Ger-
man who was appointed to the job of village
“judge,” an official whose only remuneration
is the fees from those he fines or marries.
There was a protest, and the State Gover-
nor had the old chap called before him.
“Vot’s diss?” said his Excellency, also a
“Dutchman.” “Dey dells me du gannot
der Anglisch sbeak, hein?” “Nein?” replied
his new Honor indignantly. “ ’Den tollars’ —
dot iss blenty to know, aind’t it?” It was.
* * * #
“Fevrier”: An attempt is being made to
revive the cult of St. Valentine in. Britain;
it is announced that one of the big Christ-
mas-card firms, which used to
specialise in the embossed and
colored contraptions dear to the
dawn of calf-love, is getting out its
old-time blocks and preparing to
come on the market again. The
bona-fide valentine, as opposed to
the crude and libellous wood-cut
variety, which finally slew the old
custom, had its uses. It enabled
the young of both sexes to declare
their feelings without the embar-
rassment of a personal explanation
with the possibility of an action for
breach of promise perhaps attach-
ing. Also it would seem to have
provided a living for that class of
poet whose effusions are nowadays
only seen in the “In Memoriam’’
columns, whereby editors of the
period were spared much agony
of mind. One would like to see the pleasant
old practice revived, but somehow the ima-
gination shies at the conjunction of the mid-
Victorian valentine and the neo-Georgian
flapper.
:]t * * *
“Yacko”: David Lennox wasn’t actually
Australia’s first bridge builder (B. l/5/’29).
That distinction belongs to Isaac Peyton,
who in ISO 4 supervised the erection of a stone
bridge across the Tank Stream, Sydney, near
the Bridge and Pitt streets intersection of
to-day. Possibly he wasn’t as good a crafts-
man as Lennox, for the bridge collapsed,
and was rebuilt in 1807. Four years later
traffic in Sydney had so increased'that John
O’Hearne contracted with the Government
to widen and rebuild the masonry work of
the Tank Stream bridge. The payment he
received was 6(40 gallons of rum.
“Wart” : The flood disasters in the Speck
brought the Digger to the front again. As
soon as Launceston knew what it was in for,
Mayor Osborne handed over the control of
relief measures to Oapt. Fred Fairthorne,
Senator Sampson and Capt. Will Fothering-
ham. The first two were Diggers with a
fine record at the Front; the third, after
being refused for active service, was adju-
tant at the Claremont camp. With' few-ex-
ceptions the men who did good work in
minor positions were Diggers. They removed
over 4000 people from flooded homes, mostly
in pouring rain and inky darkness owing to
the failure of gas and electric light, witnout
a fatality, and had them all housed and
provided with bedding and food witlun a
few hours. A number of public- me n were
peeved at being pushed into the background,
but the job couldn’t have been better done,
and the cost was much below the most opti-
mistic estimate.
“Macann”: “Furpliy” (B.
15/5/’29) originat e d at
Broadmeadows (Vic.) in
1914. It had its genesis in
the camp latrine-carts, which
bore the name of their
maker, Furpliy. It came to
mean a rumor, especially a
false one, because of that
essential part of the camp
where most rumors were sup-
posed to start or spread.
Even before Gallipoli the
word was in general use in
the A.I.F. On Gallip. one
member of my company
(First Sigs.) was actually
brought before his officer and
solemnly ordered not to
spread another furpliy—he
had been perturbing late-
comers with hair-raising
stories of Turkish frightfulness. There was
a yarn, that he took the last trick by having
himself paraded before the same officer and
asking for permission to “spread just one
more furphy, sorr; the repression is terrible.'’
But that was probably another furphy.
* * * *
“Up North”: In the early days of the
Palmer (Q.) diggings the freight from Cook-
town soared to £l3O a ton for 165 miles.
There hurried into Purdie’s Camp one day a
packer whose horse had cast a shoe, render-
ing him useless for travelling over the stony
ridges. The packer offered any price for
nails for the shoe; Billy Yates, a carrier,
jocularly undertook to supply five for their
weight in gold. The packer agreed, and the
nails and gold were evenly balanced on gold
scales. The packer hurriedly shod his horse,
loaded his team and whistled them off. He
was getting Is. a lb. for packing goods 11
miles, and the horse carried 1501 b., so he
could afford the price. But the incident was
responsible for the report all over the North
that the packers of the Palmer shod theii*
horses with gold.
i'fi ❖ Hs
“Narara” : A recent Sydney wedding which
re-united two middle-aged persons had some
unusual points about it. They were first
married in 1903; but there were constant
quarrels, and after three years they were
divorced. Both re-married soon afterwards,
and in due course lost their second partners
through death. An accidental meeting some
months back and a discussion of past events
ultimately resulted in the present matri-
monial venture.
* * *
“Quiz”: Convicts who suffered either
violent or natural deaths in Williamstown
(Vic.) when it was a penal settlement were
interred in a rather perfunctory way in the
old burial-ground on the Williamstown
water-front. When the _ skeletons were
exhumed for reinterment in the new local
cemetery the graves of the convicts were
found to be mostly less than 3ft..deep, and
iron fetters were reclaimed from the legs
of one. In another coffin, a pipe, fully charged
with tobacco, and a box of matches were
found beside the dead, possibly a grim joke
by the sextons, but more likely the fulfilment,
of a dying wish. The body of the wife of a
ship’s captain, which had rested at the spot
for 23 years, was remarkably preserved.
Embalmed in spirits, and enclosed in an oak
coffin which had been in turn enveloped in
stout ship’s canvas coated with tar, the
remains were almost lifelike, even the hair
having lost little of its lustre. There were
805 bodies recovered and buried in new sur-
roundings.
* * * *
“Gad”: Re Sydney’s vanishing hansoms
(B. 8/5/’29). One hundred and seven were
licensed last year as against 158 in 1927.
At this rate, as no new hansoms are manu-
factured, the end must come in a very few
years. If there are any left in 1934 the.
owners can celebrate a centenary. It was in
1834 that Joseph Aloysius Hansom took out
his patent for “the safety cab” : the origi-
nal conception shows a square body set upon
huge wheels, through one of which the pas-
senger entered. Hansom had an indirect con-
nection with Australia, though he was never
actually here. He was a noted church archi-
tect, c and ; some . tabernacles from his design
were erected in this country.
AFTERWARDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If you’d gone right out to that googlie stuff,
well, you might have saved the match ;
But you fiddled around in your timid way
and you poked up an easy catch.
When your coat is on and the pads are off,
and you’re sitting back in the shade,
It’s easy to think of it afterwards —the game
that you should have played.
When you gave your views to the world at
large on cabbages, kings and wheat,
And that slick debater cut the ground from
underneath your feet,
You knew that he twisted your argument,
there was much that you might have
said—
But these thoughts came to you afterwards,
with the chance to voice them fled.
When you reckoned to lift the mortgage off,
with cows to pull you through,
And the pleuro took your cattle off, and the
bank came down on you,
If you’d stuck to spuds as your neighbors
did and auctioned the dairy herd —
Oh, it’s fatally easy afterwards when credit’s
a vanished word!
When you heard a good man slandered in
insulting words and loud.
And (God, to think you could be so mean)
you laughed with the thoughtless crowd !
You should have stood up for the absent one,
though it meant you stood on your
own—
Oh, this was clear to you afterwards, when
you talked to yourself alone.
It’s easy to think of it afterwards when you
carry a bumper load
Of self-contempt for the pluck you lacked or
the sense you never showed;
If your afterthoughts were only lamps to
light the pathway plain,
What pits you’d pass and what cliffs you’d
climb could you have your chance again !
VICTORIA.
ACK.


“Harold Hardupp”: To the list of those
parents who have tried to work jests in the
naming of their defenceless infants, add a
Sydney chemist and analyst who lias christ-
ened his two daughters Anne Eliza and
Apotha Carrie. I knew another pharmacist
who had a daughter named Olive Hoyle, but
I always doubted if that was intentional.
* * ❖ *
“Adelaide”: A really comical situation —
except to an occasional criminal concerned —
has arisen in South Aus., a bit of intended
leniency having gone astray. Minimum
sentences were practically abolished in 1925,
the idea being to give a Judge full discretion
down to zero. Thus where a clause read,
as commonly, “not exceeding 14 years, and
not less than two,” the last five words went
out, with the intended effect. But in just
one case, robbery with violence, it read “shall
be imprisoned for life, or for any term not
less than three years.” When some drafts-
man had mechanically nipped out the mini-
mum clause it stood, and still stands, as
THE COMPLETE TALLY.
DAD (seeing his daughter-in-law off to a party): "Well, boy, she
looks a picture. Her dress is a poem, isn’t it?”
BOY (a free-lance journalist): “Dad, you’re a bad guess. That
frock’s six poems and a short story.”
“life” for any such robbery. Since then prac-
tically every conviction has resulted in the
Judge making a strong recommendation to the
Government, and release followed in one mild
case after only two years had been served,
but the fool of an Act still stands, and every
man convicted under it goes through exist-
ence with the stigma attaching to a lifer.
* * * *
“Baomata” : There have been buccaneers
in Australian seas besides the Malay and
Chinese who once operated about our north-
ern coasts. As late as 1848 a pirate ship,
presumably from South America, ran into
the harbor of Shoalhaven (N.S.W.), took
possession of a store ship lying there and
looted her. On the way out of the channel
a merchantman which was hugging the coast
was held up and relieved of such bullion as
she carried. A year earlier a buccaneering
craft entered the Swan River, making raids
on farms for livestock, pigs, fowls and sheep,
precious things in the struggling, ill-stocked
colony. Even the Government pilot ship was
seized by the marauders and carried off, the
small armed guard having grown careless
from the long intervals between visits of any
kind to the pioneer settlement. In each case
the pirate ship was a foreign-manned wind-
jammer, showing signs of hard wear and tear.
From the Swan settlement a quantity of
stored grain was carried off.
* * * *
“Exdig” : The grass-grown grave-lot which
waits at Rookwood (Syd-
ney), duly lieadstoned
and headlined, for the
Rev. C. T. Sackville
West, the just-retired
chaplain who has read
over 50,000 burial services
there, is more frequent in
the Old World. It is
often encountered in
France, where a spirit of
economy, characteristically
French, seems to be the
inspiration. You will
often see a headstone con-
taining the names of every
member of a family and
the dates of their births,
blanks being left for such
information as will have
to be supplied later. In
one small village, St.
Marie Chapelle, wherein
the church and its sur-
rounding acre was the vil-
lage centre, I ticked off
12 of these family burial
allotments, waiting for
more than half the people
whose names were en-
graved on the stones.
“Jon E.”: Probably the first Maori to
attempt female impersonation is “Miss June
Haora,” who was recently proved to be
Nicholas Haora, male, aged 27. For more
than three months he had been employed as
a housemaid in an Auckland home, where
he had deceived the whole family. With his
long black curls and gay, girlish clothes he
looked the part, and gave every satisfaction
in his work. He was driven to his masquer-
ading, he said, through inability to obtain
work as a man.
* * * *
“Meteren”: On the troopship bound for
Egypt one of the ship’s guard was required
to stand on a trapdoor beneath which ammu-
nition was stored. Well below troop decks,
the guard was compensated for his stifling
job by having to do only half the ordinary
shift. On one occasion an inspection found
the sentry squatting on the trapdoor in a
uniform consisting entirely of a shrunken
flannel shirt. As he sprang to it the ship’s
c.o. exploded in wrath. “You’re a disgrace
to your unit; where are your dungarees?
Have you forgotten there are nurses on
board?” he fired at the delinquent. After an
hour’s sweating Mick, the guard, was in no
mood for a soft answer. “The only ’ope
them nurses ’ll ’ave of spotting me,” he
snarled, “is if the ‘ammo’ goes up, and then
I’ll be flyin’ past ’em that quick they won’t
have a chance ter tell whether a man’s in the
nood or in full marchin’ kit.”
* $ * *
“Morita”: Firewood may have been scarce
in France (B. 8/5/’29), but it was seldom
unobtainable. In
the shell-shocked
zone there was
enough timber,
some of it seasoned
for generations, to
last the war out.
Back in the rest
areas the pictur-
e s q u e 1 y - planted
woods around the
chateaux were our
hunting - grounds.
The more prosper-
ous - looking the
castle the bigger
would be the bill
for compensation, if
the depredators were
caught, and some
of the old retainers
could smell a fresh-
cut tree hundreds
of yards away.
When supplies of
kindling gave out
on the Somme the
Ordnance helped
us by supplying
the original Nissen
huts with a lining
of- pine boards
under the corru-
gated iron. After
a few weeks of
winter even the
expensive linings of
the officers’ huts
had found their
way to the camp
braziers. Next
winter the Nissen
huts in Flanders
were “lined” with
a second thickness
of corrugated iron,
after which can-
teen funds had to
cough up a lot of
compensation for
purloined fence-posts and trees.
* * * *
“John W.”: When Johnny Mullan,
Queensland’s late Attorney-General, was
speaking at Cloncurry before the recent elec-
tions the police had instructions to deal
severely with all interjectors. Somebody cut
in with a derisive remark, and a strong
Labor supporter said to the interjector,
“Give the man a chance, Charley.” The
police immediately pounced on the remon-
strator and ran him in. After this rotten
eggs and tomatoes began to fly at the plat-
form, but the firing-party was woefully out
of practice, and the only casualties sustained
fell to the lot of a lady reporter, who stopped
a tomato with a shapely knee, and the
would-be Labor peacemaker, who had been
bailed out and returned to the meeting with
his arm in a sling—the latter, whose luck
was dead out, intercepted an egg. After
this, at the small townships along the rail-
way line, Mullan harangued the crow r d with
a policeman on each side of him.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: Divining is still occasionally
resorted to by optimists in the tin-mining
industry in Malaya, but one of the practi-
tioners struck trouble when he offered to
submit to a test in the Geological Survey
AN OVERSIGHT.
CHARABANC GUIDE: “We are now passing the oldest hotel in Sydney.”
CONVIVIAL SQUATTER: “Cripes, why?”
Office of the F.M.S. According to the offi -
cial report, he obtained a reaction with his
rod when standing over a heap of tin ore, and
so did one of the staff. Thereafter, however,
the spirit of the tin forsook him. He got
another severe reaction from a block of rock
and from another of thoro-tungstite, neither
of which contained tin ore. He was then
asked to pick out a bag containing tin from
amongst two containing wolfram, and his
weapon plumped for the wolfram every time.
A large mass of wolfram uncovered was then
put on the floor, and gave no reaction,
although the rod had been acutely sensitive
to much smaller pieces in. the bag. But
diviners will still do some business amongst
the Chinese and Malays, who believe every
precious metal has its individual soul.
* * * *
“Double Disc”: Enemy tributes to the
dead? When we were pushing Fritz out of
Belgium in October, ’lB, we came across a
German military cemetery near Menin where
several British airmen had been buried
and their graves well cared for. On most
of them was some portion of the wrecked
aeroplane. One of the inscriptions, trans-
lated, read: “In memory of the heroic
British airman Capt. It. W. S. McFarlane,
R.F.C. and Seaforth Highlanders, shot down
in flames, Sept. 6, 1917, whilst fighting a
very gallant action against severe odds.” It
had apparently been erected by those who
shot him down. At Courtrai there were
quite a number of airmen buried; English,
French and Belgian, and in all cases some
part of the destroyed aeroplane had been
put up over the grave. An old Belgian told
me that every Sunday the German officers
from the aerodrome had personally attended
to the graves. Reichthofcn was one of them;
his “circus” operated from Courtrai for quite
a long time.
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: A party on. the tram
reduced to three by the disappearance of a
flapper who said she wouldn’t be long over
her shopping interested me. It consisted
of a small child and what were seemingly her
mother and grandmother—it was the bright-
ness and well-preserved appearance of the
two women that attracted me. The younger
woman dropped a small parcel, which rolled
over to me; she was looking away, and, put-
ting it in the little one’s hand, I said, “I
think your mother dropped this.” The lady
promptly spoke up: “Oh, I’m not her
mother; it was her mother got out. I’m
her grandmother, and this is her great-
grandmother.” Evidently proud of the
sequence, she went on: “We’ve just been
across to see her great-great-grandmother—
my grandmother. She’s not too good; but,
then, she’s 77. Her mother lived to be 98, and
died only last year.” On that showing the
family was one of six generations until a
year ago. If not a record, that must be
surely near it.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: Fire prevention in China
is in all stages of development from the most
modern to the most primitive. The other
day a fire broke out In Hangchow, one of
China’s ancient capitals and still one of its
most beautiful cities, and the local bucket
brigade was all that was available to sup-
press a conflagration involving 500 buildings.
I once saw the bucket method applied in the
Shanghai native city. A string of coolies bear-
ing pails of water passed a tally clerk seated
at a desk, who handed each coolie a stick.
Having poured his fluid into the tank attached
to the handworked fire-pump, the coolie went
to a pay office and exchanged his stick for
a dozen cash. Then he went to the river
for more water. When the supply of cash
became exhausted there would be a yell from
the pay-office, and some merchant whose pro-
perty was endangered would hastily pass
in another couple of dollars. The excellent
British fire-brigade w T as handy, but it couldn’t
assist because the streets were several feet
narrower than its engines.
* * * *
“Onerahi”: Nearly 4000 men were re-
cruited in Australia during the Maori War
of 05 years ago for the First. Second, Third
and Fourth regiments of the Waikato militia.
The Second Regiment was stationed at Pir-
ongia, then known as Alexandra, on the
southern boundary of the Waikato. When
hostilities ceased the militia was disbanded
and each soldier was allotted a town acre
in Pirongia and 50 acres in the country.
Some of the men registered their titles,
others did not; but very few ever occupied
or used the land. The result was that niany
hundreds of acres of good farmland in l ir_
ongia were given over for years to gorse,
blackberry and ragwort. Some of the sec-
tions have since been used by settlers de-
spite the difficulty of securing titles. lhe
town that was planned never came into
being, and as the result of persistent agi-
tation by the farmers settled in the locality
the Lands Department has been occupied for
three years in cleaning up the position, can-
celling the old titles and conferring new ones
on bona fide settlers. It is an expensive and
complicated job. Pirongia furnishes an illus-
tration of the worthlessness of some kinds
of gifts.
* * * *
“Zabut” : Touching the scarcity of fire-
wood on certain war fronts (B. 8/5/’29).
After the battle of Maghdaba the Light
Horse and the Camel Corps moved back to
El Arish with prisoners on Christmas Eve.
Going down the wadi to the fight we had
not particularly noticed the telegraph line
during our night march, but returning we
felt thankful that the Germans had made
such a good job of it. Poultry was obtainable
in El Arish, and, although our c.o. stormed
and raged about the destruction of some-
thing of military value, the wood that cooked
his Christmas turkey came from a telegraph
pole. H'e delivered his harangue from a
convenient mound, little suspecting that the
rise in the ground was not a natural for-
mation but a good supply of telegraph poles
cut into lengths and buried by the cook.
After two days you had to go eight miles
along the wadi to find a telegraph pole, and
the boys reckoned that a bit too far.
* * * *
“Dealer Brown”: Sydney Sun has been
telling of an alleged Murillo found in a
Darlinghurst curio shop and sent to
Christie’s for examination by the owner and
a Macquarie-street doctor:
The story is that the picture originally left
France during the French Revolution and found its
way over to Ireland, where it went into the collection
of an Irish nobleman, probably the Duke of Leinster.
In any case the castle was burned down during
the trouble in Ireland between 1921 and 1924, and
the picture was saved.
I wish them luck, but the yarn about the
Irish castle sounds ominous—apart from the
fact that neither of the two Leinster resi-
dences has ever been burned down. Many of
the most expensive fakes now being offered
to inexperienced Australian and American
collectors in England are represented as
having been smuggled out of Ireland during
the “coldness.” I have seen china that
looked like Worcester (with seal-mark com-
plete), Chippendale chairs, Sheraton tables,
and even heavy seventeenth-century four-
posters, all on sale as smuggled Irish and
all supplied by a famous firm of fakers in
south-east London. For some reason the
ruined Irish aristpcrat and his mislaid artis-
tic treasures make a powerful appeal to
overseas buyers, but he and his are almost
always myths. The nobleman corresponds
in the antique trade to the Spanish prisoner
or Fiji uncle in the general business of con-
fidence trickery.
* * ❖
“Uramao”: In the recent M.L. municipal
elections a road-board candidate was empha-
sising his long residence among the electors
as a claim for their support. “I first slept
in the district in 1908, and have been sleep-
ing in it ever since,” was the way he put
it. “Well, it’s time you woke up!” came
from the back of the hall. Did ever a candi-
date more plainly ask for an election egg?
* Hi X *
“Gouger”: The latest A.I.M. (Australian
Inland Mission) hospital is the Eleanor
Symon nursing home at Innamincka (S.A.),
which owes its being to the benevolence
of Josiah Symon and others. This is
its eleventh refuge for the sick, all in places
far remote from ordinary medical assistance.
It has been suggested with regard to Inna-
mincka that in operation and urgent cases
the nursing sisters should communicate with
Melbourne, where Dr. G. Simpson would
advise them as the case proceeded. At pre-
sent the nearest ’phone is 300 miles away,
but the mission people hope soon to have
wireless. An appliance is now obtainable
for about £5O, the outfit including transmit-
ting as well as l-eceiving sets and hand gen-
erators. One of these, in conjunction with
the “Flying Doctor,” will revolutionise con-
ditions.
THE HAPPY VALLEY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The road comes in to meet her as the lever
changes over.
There’s a patch of pleasant country down
below,
And someone who is waiting will be glad to
greet the rover,
Down the valley where the league-long
cuttings go.
And the road that we have taken has been
overlong forsaken,
For there’s someone in a letter told us so,
Told us so, my gallant runner, told us so.
The hills are on the skyline, and they’re
faint and far and hazy;
It’s away beyond the river where they
show,
Beyond the old Shoalhaven where it’s run-
ning long and lazy,
In the pool beyond the bend at Tarago.
And the outward call has gripped us, for a
scent of eucalyptus
Comes so softly from the mountains where
we go.
Where we go, my eager runner, where we
go.
The miles are melting to her and she’s
hungry for the throttle
As she’s running to her even-powered
flow;
The wind is heavy laden with the frankin-
cense of wattle
Down the old familiar roadway that we
know.
And it’s over! Pull her over! where the
turns swing out and hover
O’er the Happy Valley lying down below,
Down below, my racing wonder, down
below.
The headlights stab the darkness o’er the
overhanging ledges
And the cuttings sheering upward in the
glow.
’Twas there on days aforetime that we sat
and watched the dredges
In the golden Happy Valley long ago.
And we’re running lightly laden to a lonely
little maiden,
For we love her and we have to tell her
so,
Tell her so, my reckless runner, tell her
so !
N.S.W.
E. W. O’BRIEN.


“IT’S THE TOBACCO THAT COUNTS”
■ * ‘ ' •’"WmilUHm, .
mil
iMSs'
i'll!
■
■ill
ills
f
Cut
iji— »\
STRENGTH
RECISTEREO
NavyC
Cigaretl
W.D.&H.O. Wills,
Sydney.
“CAPSTAN” Navy Cut Cigarettes -12 for 6°


USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed (or the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
'phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Dsherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
DIAMOND RINGS
Gems of flawless quality in hand-fashioned settings.
m
m
■■'Ti
mm
mm
ki
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney.
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
A.
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some June birthdays :
H. C. Mott (Albury Border Mail), 58, on Ist;
Dr. Leeper (Melb.), 81, on 3rd; W. B. Propsting
(Speck’s Leg. Council Pres.), 68, on 4th; Bishop
Radford (Goulburn), 60, and Mrs. JEneas Gunn
(“We of the Never Never”), on sth; Federal Minister
Gen. Glasgow, 53, W. M. Marks, M.H.R., 54, Justice
Inglis Clark (Speck), 47, and Arthur H. Adams,
57, on 6th; Bishop Gilbert White (late of Willoehra),
70, Dr. Prescott (Newington Coll., Syd.), 72, and
Brig.-Gen. Phillips (S.A.), 47, on 9th; Vic.’s Alec
Peacock, 68, on 11th; J. Lane Mullins, M.L.C., 72,
on 12th; J. H. Prowse, M.H.R., 58, on 16th; Bishop
D’Arcy-Irvine, 67, on 17th; R.C. Bishop Barry
(Goulburn), 54, and Frank Tate (Vic.’s ex-Director
of Education), 66, on 18th; Vic. Senator Brig.-Gen.
Elliott, 51, and Dr. J. H. Cumpston (Director-Gen.
of Federal Quarantine), 49, on 19th; Major-Gen.
Coxen, 59, on 22nd; H. R. Harper (Vic. State
Electricity Commission), 58, and Capt. Dyett
(Returned Soldiers’), 38, on 23rd; R. 0. Blackwood
(Vic.), 68, S. Aus. Minister Jenkins, 51, and John
E. Morphett (Adel. Steamship Co.), 67, on 24th;
Frank Moulden (Adelaide’s ex-Mayor), 53, and T.
J. Roseby (Sydney Board of Water Supply), 63, on
25th; Gen. Monash, 64, and J. Nevin Tait, 53, on
27th; D. S. S. Cameron (Vic. Director of Agri-
culture), 63, on 29th; and Prof. Hudson Beare, of
Edin. Uni. (first S. Aus. Scholar), 70, on 30th.
Like Bavin (Ma State), Moore, the new
Premier of Queensland, is a native of Maori-
land. Recently four of the six Australian
State Premiers directed the government of
the State in which they were born. Now
two only—McPherson (Vic.) and Butler
(S. A.) — administer the affairs of their
native States. Both Collier (W.A.) and
McPhee (Speck) were born in Vic. McPher-
son is 63, Collier 56, Bavin 55, Moore 53,
McPhee 50 and Butler 44. Prime Minister
Bruce, born in Melbourne, is 46.
When Ramsay MacDonald had a look at
Australia 23 years ago he didn’t merely dash
around the capitals. Among other places he
visited was Kalgoorlie, nothing like so acces-
sible in those days as it has since become.
They gave him a municipal reception—an
earnest-looking, greying man, sporting an
intensely red tie. It is doubtful if any of
GENERAL McCAY, about whom Diggers
of the Fifth Division who suffered the
horrors of the desert march and From-
elles are asking, Was He to Blame?
(See page 8). The picture is from a
study made after the General’s return
to Australia.
his hosts suspected they were looking at a
future Prime Minister, any more than those
who met Hoover on the same goldfields eight
or nine years earlier discerned in him the
makings of a U.S. President. Ramsay was
the third British Prime Minister in posse
that Australia has seen; the preceding two
were Salisbury and Rosebery.
Edward Harney, Iv.C., M.P., who died in
England of pneumonia last week, was one
of W.A.’s first six Senators elected in 1901 —
and the first of them to go. He came from
Ireland, a young man just turned 30, and
started practice at Coolgardie in 1897, soon
transferring himself to Perth. An eloquent
Irishman in the florid style, he soon made
a name as a successful pleader and earned
big fees. But he never made much mark
in the Senate. Over 20 years ago he
went to London, was admitted to the English
Bar, got to the Commons as Liberal member
■for South Shields, and was beginning another
electoral campaign when he was stricken
down.
Died in Sydney, at 62, general-manager
Mackenzie, of the Sydney Ferries —an old
officer of Dalgety’s, in whose fine service he
learned much about boats and more about
men. He was completely trusted by the co.’s
big staff, and the smooth running of the
ferries in periods of great industrial stress
was almost wholly due to his fine human
qualities.
May 11, 1920, McCormack’s unlucky day
in Queensland, was James McCulloch’s
equally-unlucky day in Victoria in 1877. Old
hands in Vic. still speak with bated breath
of how Graham Berry “swept the country”
on that day 52 years ago.
A man who triumphed over Fate’s blows
was James Bitmead, just dead in Adelaide at
45. Losing his sight when a small child, he
spent his life at the Blind Institution in
North Adelaide, acting as librarian and teach-
ing others how to read, travelling all the
city and suburbs as collector for the insti-
tution, and growing and pruning roses as an
expert.
Gone to the Elysian fields, that doyen of
Maoriland agricultural knights, James Glen-
nie Wilson. Lord of many acres in the
Manawatu, he was the instigator of the
Shivery Isles Royal Show, had a seat on
nearly every board or commission dealing
with farming matters ever set up by Massey
or Coates, and was the head (and practi-
cally the shoulders) of the Maoriland Far-
mers’ Union. But the thing that will prob-
ably keep him most in the cookies’ mind
is the brand of potato he evolved and which
was named after him, the Sir J. G. Wilson.
The only woman upon whom the degree of
Doctor of Literature had been conferred by
Maoriland’s Uni. up till a few weeks ago was
Sister Mary St. Domitille, of Christchurch.
Mrs. N. Mac Diarmid (formerly Phoebe
Harrington, Otago and Southland), who is
on the Soudan United Mission, has now
gained the rare degree by her close study of
the Nuba language and her success in re-
ducing it to writing.
Passed out, in his 94th year, Saul Solo-
mon, of Northam (W.A.), who was born in
London and was at Bendigo and Ballarat
soon after the first Vic. gold discoveries.
Settling in Adelaide in 1868, he conducted
for many years a successful photographer’s
business in Rundle-street, was alderman of
the city, and for three years M.P., defeating
in 1887 Tom Playford for the Assembly
seat of East Torrens, which Playford had
represented conjointly with Edwin Smith for
many years. Three weeks later Playford got
in for Newcastle, and nine days after the new
Parliament assembled became Premier, oust-
ing the Downer Ministry. Solomon was a
pillar in Freemasonry until he grew too old
to attend Lodge. His dad lived to over 100.
Henry English Fulford, who was found
dead in his home in Melbourne with a
Webley revolver alongside him, was an Adel-
aidean who graduated from mercantile pur-
suits into the British Consular service in
1880, and remained a leading member of it
for 37 years. Most of his guardianship of
the rights of British nationals was done in
Manchuria and China. On one occasion he
was consul at the Yangtze port of Chung-
king when that human cesspool was visited
by a severe winter and a famine at one and
the same time. Dead bodies w'ere as com-
mon that winter in Chungking as defunct
bullocks in an Australian drought, and one
morning Fulford found one in front of his
house. He ordered his coolies to bury it, which
they did. When the thaw set in the Consul
happened one day to take a walk in an angle
of his garden, and came on the same body
lying in perfect preservation naked on the
ground. The labor-saving Celestials had
simply scraped a hole in the snow and popped
the anonymous deceased in.
It would be a short roll-call now if all
the survivors of William Lane’s New Aus-
tralia were mustered: Mary Gilmore would
be the most widely-known person on the
parade-ground. Denny Hoare dropped out of
the thin ranks in western Queensland a few
days ago—aged 73.
Victoria’s prominent Freemason F. T.
Hickford, a solicitor, has passed on. He
was a virulent Freetrader who represented
East Bourke Boroughs in the Leg. Assembly
for a while, but did not care for the politi
cian’s life. He was a head of the Metropoli-
tan Fire Brigade Board, and led an alto-
gether busy life.
The death of Meredith Atkinson in Lon-
don was described by Sir Arbuthnot Lane
as a grave loss to the New Health Society,
of whicliTie was literary secretary. Atkin-
son was Professor of Sociology at Melbourne
Uni. at one time, and was distinguished for
radical views. When Henry Stead died on
the Pacific Atkinson took over the editorship
of Stead’s Magazine, but, although his senti-
ments were much the same as those of its
founder, he was too coldly academic, and the
journal which had given Australian war-
time censors many a pain in the head lost
the prestige Stead’s mingled warmth and
courage had gained it.
Brilliant Wood Jones, lately in Hawaii,
has accepted the chair of anatomy in Mel-
bourne, and will slip into the position next
year. In the days when Jones was doctor
on a cable-repairing vessel, there was a job
Artist JIM BANCKS, who is taking Ginger
Meggs for a trip abroad.
to be done in the middle of the Tasman Sea.
After slopping about for a month the ship
hooked the wire, mended the break and came
into Botany Bay for orders, whereupon
sundry officers made a beeline for Sydney
and the bright lights. Returning at midnight
in a happy condition of indifference to
worldly cares, they found that the ship’s boat
and its Malay crew had returned, so they
“borrowed” a fisherman’s skiff and started to
row to their floating home. Wood Jones
came to the conclusion that they were not
in a fit state to meet a skipper noted for
being a martinet, so he took the tiller. By
the time they reached the ship’s side they
were as sober as Amit, the scrang. Jones
had been steering them in circles in the
fog for an hour.
The new Public Actuary of S.A. (succeed-
ing L. G. Melville, who has moved on to be
the first Professor of Economics at Adelaide
University) is Oswald Gawler, descendant of
one of that State’s earliest Governors. He
has moved about a bit in his 39 years of life;
succeeding Wickens, now Commonwealth
Statistician, in the like position in West-
ralia. He saw war service right through
from 1914 to 1919, and holds the rank of
lieutenant-colonel.
Billy Bertram, Speaker of Queensland’s
Labor Parliament, who “took the count” at
the general election, was for years the State’s
middleweight boxing champion.
Charlie Reeve, who with the ex-parson
Garden, Kavanagh and Ryan has been pro-
ceeded against for demonstrating at Parling-
liurst during the hearing of the timber-
workers’ summons cases, is, now that Donald
Grant has faded out, the only one still active
of the 12 I.W.W. men whose imprisonment
was an old-time political sensation. Although
the I.W.W. was outlawed, Reeve proclaimed
his continued allegiance; and he is still
“representing the 1.W.W.” when he appears on
deputations. Since his release he has visited
almost every part of Australia where it has
seemed likely that trouble could be fomented.
And he has got out of it about as much as
would keep a wallaby.
W. H. Barnes, better known as “Bishop”
Barnes, is the sole survivor in the Queens-
land Parliament of the Liberal Cabinet which
was sent into the wilderness by T. J. Ryan
14 years ago. Like his leader, Denham, the
then Treasurer, Barnes was a produce mer-
chant in a large way, and the ungodly were
accustomed to refer to the team they headed
as the Butterbox Ministry. Barnes pere
was a well-known identity of early Queens-
land—one of Cobb and Co.’s drivers between
Brisbane and Gympie in the roaring days of
the goldfield.
Frank Pryke, who lately sailed down to
Sydney from Bulolo, is the best known of
the gold pioneers of New Guinea. He and
brother Dan and old Matt Crowe opened up
practically all the New Guinea fields. With
George Klotz he discovered his first big patch
in Cloudy Bay, after the excitement of the
Yodda and Ikora. Long afterwards, Frank
Pryke, George Belford and Bob Newcombe
hacked their way across the waterfall at the
head of the Ikori, and, dropping down into
the Waria, located the first big gold that
started that rush. Dan and Frank Pryke
opened up the Kevari, at the head of the
Musa. Later, Matt Crowe, Frank Pryke and
Jim, in the Merrie England launch, discov-
ered the rich Lakekamu. Frank was m
charge of the Rupert Clarke expedition
which penetrated nearly 600 miles up the
Fly. When the Edie Creek fields broke out
he located at Merri Creek and later at Kar-
anga Crook, where he and Les Jouberr
pulled out heavy gold, and are working rich
leases to-day. Mrs. Pryke is also on the
field, and has natives working leases.
Ballarat enjoyed the sensations of an in-
vasion from the air the other day when T.
Guthrie (son of the Senator), Peter Mani-
fold, Major de Haviland, Captain Trescow-
tliick, Alan Moyle and Charles Pratt, all
members of the Vic. Aero Club, arrived in
Moths. The drive has for its aim the estab-
lishment of suitable landing-grounds every-
where in the State, and before the end of the
campaign over 20 machines will be engaged.
A modest Australian, G. H. Wright, M.A.,
D.Lit., of Stow Church, Adelaide, has been
invited to deliver in London the Drew Lec-
ture for 1930 —it is always on Immortality.
This lectureship was established 25 years
ago, and during its time world-famous men
have been associated with it —Sir Oliver
Lodge, Dean Inge and Dr. Hatfield have
made their contribution on the great question.
Incidentally, the cable Dr. Wright received
really invited him to lecture “on immorality.”
lan Macpherson, whom Sydney’s Hugh D.
Mclntosh is opposing as a Laborite in Ross
and Cromarty, is the Baldwin of Liberalism.
He is at once a literary dreamer and a man
of affairs, and he is about the only man in
his party for whom every M.P. lias a good
word. Macpherson speaks well in a strong
Highland accent, but does not enjoy the re-
nown he should as a debater; much of his
best work has been done on “Scotch nights,”
which are always ill-attended. He has held
office both in Liberal and War Ministries,
is a supporter of Scottish Home Rule, and
is Britain’s leading authority on the ideal
which the London Daily ITekald says
Mclntosh desires to further —Scottish land
reform.
R. A. Spencer, the late W. O. Strang-
ward’s understudy for 10 years, succeeds him
as secretary to Melbourne Tramway Board.
The board’s term will expire on December
31. but it seems certain that Alex. Cameron
will continue at the head of the service.
Whether he will have a board of six five-
pound-a-weekers, as at present, or two
whole-time experts is in doubt.
J. O. B. Mouton, who has made some-
thing of a fortune in New Britain after 48
years of fight, is the only white man fully
initiated as a priest of the “Duk-Duk,” the
"CATTLE KING” KIDMAN, who had a
72nd birthday a few days ago.
native secret society that has kept portion of
New Guinea terrorised for centuries. An
English syndicate took an option on Mou-
ton’s Einngunan estate, but let it expire,
whereupon immediately the R.C. mission
headquarters stepped in and bought it.
George P. Barber, “father” of the Queens-
land Assembly, who so narrowly saved his
bacon in the election of May 11, is another
of the several Salvationists who in Australia
have exchanged the red jersey for the plusb
benches of a legislature.


Poverty
Point
‘Lao-dali”: At least one avenue of the
arts offers rich rewards to the wayfarer in
Australia. There is an apparently unlimited
market for popular songs, as Jack O’Hagan
lias found. This airily enter-
prising young Melburnian
has sold over a mil’, n
copies of ditties which the
composer would be the last
to claim were classics, but
which are quite as original in
tune and sentiment as any
such foreign masterpiece as
“Yes, We Have No Bananas.”
O’Hagan’s success has
prompted John Jarvis, a
Victorian Digger and a
popular songsmith, too, to
launch himself and other ex-
soldiers as the Medley Pub-
lishing Co. with a nominal
capital of £25,000 and the
intention of making rolls,
records and songs in Mel-
bourne, and establishing a
chain of shops as well.
Jarvis’s “Love Is a Thing
Divine” is a present best-
seller which is said to have
increased the marriage rate
in innumerable suburbs here
and abroad.
“II amf at”: The other
night I saw once more on
the stage a lady who in my
young strutting days always
suggested the “Comedy of
Errors” line “Thou art the
elm, my husband; I, the
vine.” There was something
almost desperate about the
way she, as a youthful hero-
ine or in parts adjacent,
threw herself on manly
bosoms on the stage. My
own shirt-front suffered;
always after playing oppo-
site her I felt tired out from
holding her up. Grown
bulky and playing an elderly
part, it seemed that she
would have no chance for the
draping act. The play, how-
ever, permitted her a moment
of alarm. Not for a moment
did she hesitate; like a
fleshy avalanche, she cast
herself full at the brass but-
tons of the stage-butler. He
bore it like a hero; but, less
heroic, I decided not to go
behind the scenes and renew
an old acquaintance. Appa-
rently it is nobody’s business
to break actresses of these
bad habits.
“De Oriel”: Lately near
St. Paul’s, Melbourne, I saw
a number of parsons, bishops,
canons and other big guns
in full regalia siqging joyful
hymns to a big travelling
picture-van which was being
dedicated prior to touring
the Victorian smalls and
catching the two-bobs, much
like other shows. It re-
minded me that the Church
of England at Gunbower
(Vic.) out-tendered the local
flick-man and secured the
only hall to conduct Satur-
day-night dances.
“Peter Pan”: According
to “Spokeshave” (B.
8/5/’29), the Fullers are
casting round for a suitable
vehicle for Gladys Moncrieff.
If only they were not fright-
ened of good stuff, and less
convinced that the “Good
News” and “Lido Lady” type
of musical show is the only
kind Australia wants! They
have the Australian rights
of two light operas which
Hugh Ward secured for them,
“The Last Waltz” and “The
Gipsy Princess,” each with an ideal singing
role for Gladys. Both are Jose Collins parts,
and it is as the Australian exponent of Jose's
roles in “The Maid of the Mountains” and
“The Southern Maid” that Gladys scored her
greatest successes. Gladys is the only star
here to-day who could do justice to the pas-
sionate Viennese music of Lehar and
Strauss, responsible for the two operas the
Fullers hold.
“C. 8.”: Last year’s boat-race night at the
theatres was a sad ceremony for one school.
It found itself allotted to the King’s, where
Gregan McMahon’s professional repertory
co. was struggling with the terribly wordy
and painfully dated “Getting Married” of
G. B. Shaw. The boys stood it remarkably
well for a time, and then their natural state
of exuberance got out of hand. They flooded
the stage with ribbons, released balloons,
sang songs and joined in the interminable
discussion that was proceeding on the stage.
It was the last blow that the Tait venture
into intellectual drama was able to sustain—
and some darkly murmur that it was a self-
inflicted one.
“Nakhoda” : Discussing “Young Woodley”
with characteristic gingerliness, the critic of
the Melbourne Age remarked: “Where in
all the world of British public schools does
one find insufferable cads quite as insuffer-
able as Vining, with his lecherous mind and
easy morals, foisting cheap and frankly offen-
sive cynicisms on only half unwilling ears...
slowly and surely overcome by the corrupt-
ing influence?” Well, let me tell the Age that
the bachelor messes of the “East” are largely
manned by products of the public schools, so
their customs and outlook must be a fair
criterion. I remember a young Woodley
coming out to a tropical barracks in Borneo.
The men who had come out a couple of years
before immediately started to put him through
the usual routine, his innocence and idealism
only adding spice to the game. The sen-
suous delights appertaining to native con-
cubinage were not stressed, but his absten-
tion therefrom was made to appear the action
of a milksop and a prig. God knows what
spiritual hell that young man Avent through,
but in due course the relentless pressure
told. The night of his capitulation was a
gala night in quarters.
“Hamfat”: American dramatist Elmer
Rice has struck a novel idea in “Street
Scene.” The whole action is in front of an
apartment house, at the open windows of
which, or seated in the “stoop” to catch what-
ever cool air is going, the inhabitants of three
floors are shown. From their conservations
and arguments the characters and tangled-
life-stories of the apartment dwellers are
developed. The play ha 3 50 characters.
“Queen St.”: High wages and cost of
travelling is the excuse made by big theatri-
cal concerns for leaving Brisbane out of it,
(B. 8/5/’29). A generation ago the
northern city was on the regular circuit,
getting annual visits from the Williamson
shows, as well as opera cos. and any special
imported stuff that was going. Brough and
Boucicault and Bland Holt also took up a.
pitch regularly there, and generally what-
ever Melbourne and Sydney saw made its
appearance later in Brisbane. The place
was a lot smaller then, and not nearly so
affluent —outwardly at least —yet no one ever
heard of the Williamson chorus or Holt’s
principals having to hoof it back to Sydney,
Even Julius Knight, though he inflicted the
“Sign of the Cross” on the inhabitants, was
permitted to depart not only unscathed but
in affluence.
“Fauteil” : Within a few months the Green
Mill, Melbourne’s dance-liall that stands on
the old Wirths’ Olympia site where evan-
gelists and lions formerly roared in public,
will be transformed into a musical-comedy
theatre. Melbourne is already over-theatred;
but whatever the fortunes of the new place
happen to be, there should be no danger of
the actors going hungry. One of the direc-
tors will be Fred Matear, who derives some
of his income from feeding Melbourne’s city
snack-munchers from a chain of restaurants.
“F.S.” : Just at the time that Allan Wilkie
threatens to return to the ranks of commerce
a revival of interest in Shakspeare has
started in Japan. It has been brewing for
some time, but it got an extra fillip the
other day when the Duke of Gloucester pre-
sented 50 handsome volumes of the Bard to
the Imperial University in Tokio. The entire
canon has been translated into Japanese by
Dr. Tsubouchi. The Nipponese were ever an
assimilative race, and, judging by what hap-
pened when the Analects of Confucius and
the Jatakas of Buddha were introduced into
the archipelago, a renaissance of the Eliza-
bethan drama may occur in this far corner
of Asia. Paradoxically, Shakspeare never
FLYING MATES.
“The Commission inquiring into the forced landing of the Southern Cross and Kookaburra is now sitting.”
heard of Japan, or if he did he knew of it
as Zipangu, a corruption of the Chinese for
“Rising Sun,” and a territory inhabited by
hairy dwarfs and vaguely situated somewhere
between Ceylon and the country of Gog and
Magog.
“Spokeshave”: Eugene O’Neill’s latest
play, “Dynamo,” is disappointing, coming
after the delightful “Marco Millions” and the
stupendous “Strange Interlude.” It is a
replase into unadulterated bellowdrama,
hints of which frequently marred his earliest
works. The American dramatist prophesied
that “Dynamo” was going to be his greatest
achievement. He now announces a gigantic
trilogy which is to be his real life’s-work.
It will comprehend a synthesis of all history
and all experience, and will astound the
world. O’Neill is a consumptive, and shows
the optimism that is typical of the disease.
“Bambina”: In the revival of “Sweet Nell
of Old Drury” in Melbourne George Deane,
stage manager, played Captain Clavering. In
1880 George Musgrove brought out from
England his “La Fille du Tambour Major”
company, and George Deane was one of the
importees. The show opened at the Mel-
bourne Opera House and attained the then
record run of 101 nights. It was transferred
to Adelaide, where Nellie Stewart played
Griolet, the drummer-boy. Now, in Mel-
bourne, these two performers are again to-
gether after 48 years.
“P.N.W.”: Emma Temple, on the point of
returning to Australia after a year abroad,
was engaged to play the mother in the Firm’s
English production of “The Patsy,” just
about to go on tour. She fitted the part so
well that even the management enthused, and
the tour —a week in each of the big cities,
including Edinburgh—lias resulted so far in
glowing press notices, and consistent recalls
for the Australian actress.
“Goldilocks”: Although not an Australian,
Viola Fortescue, stage-mother in “Pigs,”
made her first stage appearance in this end
of the &lobe —on the Speck as a child. Her
father, George K. Fortescue, came to Aus-
tralia in the dim past to play “The Cor-
saire,” “Evangeline” and other dramas long
since placed on the shelf. His company was
largely a family affair ; his wife and mother
held parts, and Viola was pushed into one.
“C.Q.”: In these enlightened days when
the Ideal of Service covers everything, from
the manufacture of tooth-
picks up, it is good to find
one commercial theatre doing
a bit of civic duty. The
Melbourne Playhouse, situ-
ated across the Yarra, has
become noted for the pro-
duction of films depicting
particular aspects of the
various social evils. There
are day sessions for •women
and the nights are reserved
for men. The pictures
mainly come from Germany,
where they are manufac-
tured for the municipal
booths which are devoted to
this propaganda, and are to
be found generally outside
Luna Parks and such-like
nets for the ignorant, The
latest is “The Shadow on
Love,” and when I was there
the other day the house was
packed with flappers. James
Barrett, president of the Aus-
tralian Association for Fight-
ing Y.D., estimates that from
.5 to 1.7 per cent, of people
in every modern city are
undergoing treatment, and
as that would make an aver-
age of, say, SOOO for Mel-
bourne, the Playhouse may
be doing a good deed. Pre-
sumably the enterprise pays,
for the little theatre has
been pegging away at it for
years.
“Wretched Hare”: Mel-
bourne Sun remarked the
other day that “we of to-
day are inclined to think it
is not possible to turn out
the furnishings of a theatre
more perfectly; but 20 years
ago they thought the same,
and few producers would be
content with the settings of
those days.” I showed one
of the J.C.W. serangs a photo
of the settings for George
Rignold’s production of
“Joseph of .Canaan” some
time back. “We couldn’t do
anything like that nowa-
days,” he said; “too expen-
sive. Why, those pillars
would cost us a hundred
pounds each to build.”
“Craiser”: The latest*
mechanical development is
the broadcasting over a
leased wire in front of music
shops of songs that are being
performed at any musical
comedy in town, with a
spruiker on hand to inform
the gaping crowd that the
real thing can be obtained at
the Theatre Bathetic. In
America, where the scheme
is being extensively used, in-
creased box-oftice returns for
the legitimate theatre have
been reported.
“C. 8.”: Much of the deco-
ration of the new Regent
and Plaza in Melbourne was
due to ex-Digger Jack Som-
mers, whose black-and-white
work has often appeared in
The Bulletin.
“F'elix”: For the good
producing noted by the
Shadow Showman in the
semi-talkie “Interference”
an Australian, Roy Pomeroy,
was responsible. He left
here years ago and has been
steadily moving to the front
at Hollywood.
NO CHANCE FOR HOLLYWOOD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Britain, it is pointed out by London film pro-
ducers, is the obvious home for the ‘talkies,’ because
her actors and actresses speak standard English.”
Poor Hollywood, your glory fades,
Your lunch is cut, beyond dispute;
We stood your mumming men and maids
Only so long as they were mute.
Like English maids and men they walk,
Their gestures, too, are just as good,
But ’tisn’t English that they talk.
You’re gone a million, Hollywood!
Still, Cockney tones my heartstrings pull,
And Midland accents memories stir;
I like the Yorkshire broad and full,
I love the good West country burr.
A touch of brogue I never shall
Find irksome, Irish, Welsh or Scot;
All in their way are musical,
But, Hollywood, your lingo’s not.
That harsh down-East or Middle-West
Sounds outre from the daintiest mouth;
I cannot follow what’s expressed
In drawling argot of the South.
Those captions need the written word,
In short, to make them understood.
If vocally they’re ever heard
Out here, your stars will get the bird.
You’re gone a million, Hollywood!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


SBS!
Siffi 8
m
■
' &
4^
■
Tm
Hi
&
frzht&m
o
ill!!
G
r


%
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD.
Total Assets exceed . £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
(2# In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In ihe event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost eveiy contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manaeer.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Desert Song’’
Criterion “Pigs”
Royal (com. Saturday) .... “This Year of Grace”
Palace “No. 17”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Town Hall Brailowsky
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s Pavlova
Royal “The Five-o’clock Girl”
New Comedy “Young Woodley”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Alexander Brailowsky, a Russian gentle-
man of melancholy and meditative mien, sat
down at a very large piano at Sydney's
Town Hall on Saturday night, and for awhile
not only forgot his troubles, but made other
people forget theirs. He is a pianist of
the clear-cut classical-type—not an impres-
sionist, save in the sense that he strives
to give the impression the composer intended.
His digital facility is prodigious, his hands
are ideally balanced, and he approaches
masterpieces with reverence.
Ilis playing of the Appassionata Sonata
was superb. Climax was piled on climax,
emotion on emotion, but always there were
strength, fire and feeling in reserve, and
never degeneration into hysteria. Another
notable number was the Heroic Polonaise of
Chopin, played with tremendous zest and
enthusiasm, but exalted and dignified through-
out. Brailowsky’s management of the left-
hand octaves in the middle section was,
though becomingly unobtrusive, a tour de
force of virtuosity. Other Chopin numbers
were the F Sharp Major Nocturne, the Vaisg
in A Flat, Op. 34 and the Scherzo in C
Sharp Minor, Op. 39. In these familiar
excerpts the player seemed determined to
avoid the sugary and the obvious, and his
use of the rubato gave l an entirely new form
to some well-known melodies. A Poem by
Scriabin in his earlier and more understand-
able manner was prettily played, and a
Stravisky Etude, tempestuous, complex and
virile, was presented in a masterly manner.
Liszt’s best-known Liebcstraum, impressively
declaimed, and the sonorous Sixth Rhapsody,
with its massive and furious concluding
octave passages, rounded off a well-varied
programme. The opening numbers were
Scarlatti’s Pastorale and Cappriccio, in
which, though they were written for the
clavichord, the pedals were freely used. The
effect, however, was very pleasing.
Many encore pieces were given before a
crowded audience allowed the sad-faced young
NELLIE BRAMLEY, who has given Brisbane a weekly change
of bill for a year and a bit.
man to go to his well-earned rest. Among
the extras was Chopin’s Minute Yalse, clocked
by this Showman at 52 3-ssec., probably an
Australasian record. Brailowsky is a great
technician and a great musician—a worthy
disciple of his master, Theodore Leschet-
izky.
* * *
William Murdoch opened at Melbourne
Auditorium on Saturday. The young man—
he is 41—has neatly brushed blonde hair,
wholesome complexion and refuses to con-
ceal the fact that he was born in the mining
town of Bendigo. In fact, he shatters all
the conventions hitherto associated with the
playing of Bach, Franck, Debussy and the
rest on the Auditorium Steinway. He shat-
ters them even more effectively than the voci-
ferous Grainger, whose hair was certainly
blonde, but was also profuse and curly.
Murdoch’s platform manner is unassum-
ing, and his attitude towards the great com-
posers is one of humility—the humility of
the artist. His approach to the piano is by
way of the intellect, but it can be a warm
intellectuality when the occasion demands
it. His Chopin, for instance, was different
from the Chopin of a score of previous expo-
nents, who conveyed that Chopin composed
amidst languorous lilies in an over-heated
drawing-room. Murdoch’s playing of the C
sharp minor Nocturne might have sounded
to George Sandes like a homily on the domes-
tic virtues if she had been brought up on
Chopin as most virtuosi play him. The E
minor Valse and the Ballade in G minor
were full of emotion but tempered with
artistic discretion. They were probably
played the way Chopin meant them to be.
That is the keynote to Murdoch. His Bach
suggests Bach, not a bloke by the name of
Murdoch. The two organ Choral Preludes,
arranged by the pianist, were remarkable for
their insistent clarity. The Chromatic
Fantasia and Fugue was played with the
same scrupulous regard for the composer’s
intentions, and so was the Cesar Franck
Prelude, Choral and Fugue. The last-named
bright procession of images only distantly
related to one another was a brilliant exposi-
tion of musicianship and love of beautiful
sounds for their own sake. Debussy’s hack-
neyed “La Cathedrale Engloutie,” delivered
as an encore, was not a new rendering but
the original one in all its delicacy. An
artist in the best sense of the word, this
Bendigonian.
Vocalist Harold Williams is not the artist
Murdoch is, but he is a brilliant and charm-
ing entertainer. He has It, and It is a valu-
able asset in a singer. Also he has a bari-
tone voice with a basso range, and he
used it with power and fancy sprayed with
a strong feeling for the dramatic. The Hun-
garian songs were immensely interesting.
There was one about a shepherd who went
off with a bludgeon to attend his girl’s wed-
ding to a stranger which suggested that Hun-
garian composers go to the evening papers
for their motives. Four saltwater ballads and
“Water Boy,” negro melody, demonstrated
the versatility of Williams, and if he had
refrained from his
two deplorable
final encores this
paper would have
had nothing but
good to say of him.
The local Lindsay
Biggins is a sensi-
ti v e accompanist,
and completed the
Australian trio.
More concerts are
to follow.
Pavlova, in a
change of bill at
Sydney Royal on
Saturday, intro-
duced for the first
time in the season
Weber’s charming
“Invitation to the
Dance,” one of the
choicest ballets in
her repertoire,
though its story
almost isn’t one.
It is a wavy, waltz-
time dance, the
kind of thing in
which Pavlova
expresses exquisite
grace exquisitely.
Pavlova appeared
also in the next
principal offering,
her own ballet,
“Autumn Leaves,”
which whirls
through on Cho-
pin’s music. Here
she portrays the
tragedy of a sea-
son’s last flower,
with the North
Wind, admirably
suggested in the
rushing movements
of Hitchens, as the
villain Even this,
a generous-enough share, did not finish Pav-
lova ; she danced afterwards her sad “Swan,”
and still later was blousy and vigorous in a
couple of Mexican dances, chiefly assisted
by Pianowski, himself so engaging and indi-
vidual that one would like to see more of
him than this season has allowed. Another
rich thing in a dazzling lot was Grossman’s
“Czardaz,” by Nina Kirsanova and Slavin-
ski. Kirsanova can make herself every inch
as much a personification of feminine impu-
dence as Pavlova can of feminine grace.
The season closes to-niglit (Wednesday)
with a bill that should raise thunderous
applause—it includes all the items of the
repertoire that have struck Sydney's popular
fancy.
* # *
“The Barker,” written by Kenyon Nichol-
son and, according to the programme, pro-
duced by itself, is asking to be treated as
serious drama at Melbourne Palace, and
much of it is en-
titled to the claim.
The action —there
is lots of it—
rushes around
either in* the dress-
ing-room of a tra-
velling circus or
the front thereof,
and the fixings,
being mainly can-
vas, are cheap.
Cheap fixings, how-
ever, don’t neces-
sarily make cheap
drama. Some of
the most costly
shows seen lately
in Melbourne have
been dramatically
worthless.
“The Barker” is
quite an honest
piece of work. It
Is crude, rude and
realistic to a de-
gree not. seen since
the late lamented
Moscovitch staged
“They Knew Wliar
They Wanted”:
and the moral of
its ending is de-
plorable in the
accepted sense.
But this Showmau
prefers stage im-
morality seasoned
with a dash of life
and art to lashings
of the highest vir-
tue served with
tripe.
The manager or
barker of a travel-
ling show (Jack
Settle) is visited
on vacation by his
son (Harry Mor-
eni), for whom he
has higher ambitions than to be a strolling
clown. While the unsophisticated youth is
about he endeavors to lead a sober and
respectable life, which raises the suspicions
of his mistress, played by Betty Ross Clarke.
The owner of the circus likewise has a light
o’ love, who is Yvonne Banvard, and Miss
Clarke bribes her to vamp the son. The
even tenor of the circus’s domestic life is
rudely interrupted when Moreni and Miss
Banvard fall passionately in love. Further,
they announce their intention of getting
married ; whereat every honest circusman is
deeply shocked. Manager Settle attempts to
stop the match by discoursing on the lady’s
lurid past; but it appears she has already
voluntarily confessed. The married lovers
go off to find jobs in ’Frisco, and the infuri-
ated Mr. Settle expresses his parental dis-
gust by endeavoring to strangle Miss Clarke
in her bed. In this he fails and the two
are reconciled. Thus the only person dis-
appointed is the owner (Clias. Sherman),
and his acting and his make-up earned liim
all the disappointment in the world.
The play is not a good play, but it is an
interesting effort to make one, and so was
the presentation of it. If Jack Settle’s Bar-
ker was lacking in subtlety, it had a rough
vigor that was appropriate enough ; and with-
out going too actively into eruption Miss
Clarke effectively suggested a of
temperament ready to pour love and emotion
over her noisy paramour. Yvonne Banvard
was extremely good, whether as the vulgar,
shrieking courtesan fighting for points with
her fellow-practitioner in an ancient staple
industry or as a woman touched and flat-
tered by a young man’s unsophisticated love.
None of the others matter much.
V
Entertainment is so stereotyped nowadays
that a show given by the Old Girls of the
Secondary Schools’ Association before a
packed Melbourne Town Hall the other
evening came as a welcome change. It
represented the pageant of history through
the ages, and much intelligence had obviously
been lavished on it, not to mention an optim-
ism that is rare in these cynical times.
Man appeared as a rudimentary being pre-
sented with the alternative of footing the
path of beauty, tolerance and truth or that
of pride and ignorance. To encourage him
to take the right turning, the experiences of
the great spirits of the past trooped across
the stage. After due consideration he was
satisfied that evolution is a beneficent pro-
cess, and he decided to take the straight and
narrow track.
Dr. A. G. Floyd, wdio criticises music for
the Argus and plays the organ at St. Paul s,
directed the choir singing, Jessie Webb was
the authority on history, Basil Farrell con-
ducted the Northcote Symphony Orchestra,
and Miss Collisson was the chief of G.H.Q.
The very beautiful dressing was due to Betty
Davies, who wrote that fine Australian
drama “The Touch of Silk.”
* * *
“The Five-o’clock Girl” served to rein-
troduee Alfred Frith to his Melbourne clicn .
HELEN PATTERSON, who leads with Frith in “The Five-
o’clock Girl" at Melbourne Royal.
tele at the Royal on Saturday. There is
less froth on Frith than there was four
years ago, and his face looks less like an
illustration of Alice’s cat than heretofore,
which is a misfortune for a comedian whose
countenance was his competence, so to speak.
Divorced from his face Frith’s jokes lead a
somewhat purposeless existence.
Tui Black is an important gadget in the
machinery. She presents the moronic adoles-
cent female made familiar by Lily Molloy,
Lorna Helms and a host of others, and
though she' adds nothing new to the con-
ception, she is energetic and amusing and
owns a frontispiece which is as full of naive
expressions as one of Mr. Hughes’s election
speeches. There is nothing—except some of
the principals—in “The Five-o’clock Girl”
to injure the Firm’s high reputation for put-
ting on light musical comedicine of this sort
as it should be put on—dash of story, serve
of trifling melody, mort of physical jerks,
mass of vivacious and fleshy girleens, partly
enveloped in the latest fashions. Helen
Patterson may be surveyed without smoked
glasses.
* * *
The dramatic critics seem to be the only
persons in Melbourne who can’t agree about
“Young Woodley,” at the Comedy. The
general public votes it the most touching
and interesting as well as the most smoothly-
acted exposition of theatricalised life pre-
sented for many years. Theatregoers have
seen many alleged “juveniles,” but they saw
the real thing in Lewis Shaw, as the boy
who falls in love with Love, whose name
might have been Helen of Troy, but was un-
fortunately Mrs. Simmons, the housemaster's
lawful wedded wife. The dramatic critics
have often accused the Firm of staging non-
sense, but J.C.W. have never staged non-
sense to equal the comments made on “Young
Woodley” by some of the critics.
* * *
Little Agnes Doyle, Australian, makes a
complete success as the “Patsy” heroine in
an Adelaide revival of that quaint play. She
follows her predecessor’s methods closely, yet
has much original ability. Bert Bailey, too,
is well suited by the humorous revolting-
husband part.
* * *
Melbourne is sampling “Lido Lady” at the
Princess in large numbers. Even if the ex-
Rev. Garden succeeded in plunging the piece
in darkness, a couple of candles to light up
Elsie Prince and Billy Leonard would do.
They are an evening’s entertainment in
themselves, if the public is any judge.


Alexander Hamilton Institute
ii CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY, n.s.w.
immmmmimiiiimi
ŕ
For the executive type of man only, we have
published rather an unusual booklet called
"Forging Ahead in Business.” It contains a
concise description of the Institute’s work,
besides business facts of interest to mature
men. Have your secretary write us for a com-
plimentary copy, or use this advertisement.
Name
Business Address
Modern
“Pioneer” Means Dependable Power Transmission.
d
8
ISHIO
What are your most difficult belting problems? Are
they heavy, gruelling main drives where the belt must
withstand the constant strain of transmitting hundreds
of horse-power day in and day out, or light, high-
speed drives where extreme accuracy is essential to
minimise vibration and slippage?
Whatever your problems may be you will find
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
absolutely dependable under all conditions of service. Our 70 years of belting
experience are at your disposal in helping to solve your particular problems.
We know working conditions.
J. C. LUDOWICI (El SON. LIMITED,
Pioneer House. 117 York Street, Sydney.
Pioneer Tanners and Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 20-26 Queen’s
Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND; Hoey Fry, Ltd., Edward
Street, Brisbane;
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Me Kell & Sons,
Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards & Upton,
Auckland.
Patterson & Barr, Ltd., Dunedin.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1918.. 199,747 7$ p.c. = 78,750 120,997 498,530
£lOO,OOO of reserves transferred to capital 398,530
1919.. 227,488 74p.c.= 93,750 133,738 532,268
1920.. 260,139 10 „ ~ 125,000 135,139 667,407
Island interests sold to Burns, Philp (South Sea) Co.
1921.. 132,274 10 p.e. = 125,000 7,274 674,681
1922.. 194,718 10 „ ~125,000 69.718 744,399
Written off steamships, £25,000 719,399
1923.. 192,242 10 p.c. = 126,000 67,242 786,641
Written off steamships, £25,000 761,641
1924.. 182,357 10 p.e. = 125.000 57,357 818,998
1925.. 190,155 10 „ ~125,000 65,155 884.163
1926.. 198,688 10 „ „ 125,000 73,688 957,841
1927.. 213,297 10 „ ~ 137,500 75,797 1,033,638
1928.. 243,485 10 „ ~ 150,000 93,485 1,127,123
1929.. 244,381 10 „ ~150,000 94,381 1,221,504
The turnover has grown so quickly that,
although no less than £689,266 of surplus
profit has visibly gone into the business
during the last decade, it has not been suffi-
cient to finance the brisker trading, so an-
other £250,000 of capital was asked for,
making it £1,500,000. That was three years
ago, and profitable employment was very
quickly found for the money.
Last year sales of Island produce and other
“trade” were more than maintained, the chair-
man says ; but he adds that part of what was
gained here was lost by continued shrinkage
of shipping earnings between Australia and
the Islands, and in commissions from ship-
ping agencies held by the co. Nevertheless
the year’s gross profit was £29,589 more,
reaching a record £763,086. Exes. (£402,093)
took 52.7 p.c. of it as against 53 p.c. in the
previous term, and after visibly striking off
£131,287 for depreciation, etc., and dropping
£14,725 from somewhere into the “insurance
fund and sundry branch and other reserves,
£471,761,” the net result, as shown in the
table, was 16.3 p.c. on average capital com-
pared with 16.2, 15.5, 15.9, 15.2 and 14.5
p.c. back to 1924. The only time that better
than that has been shown was during the
post-war price boom, when the net result
climbed to 20.8 p.c. on average capital in
1920. With the margin between disclosed
net earnings and the 10 p.c. div. thus widen-
ing, and with visible accumulations within
easy reach of paid capital, the position looks
very attractive. And it may be even better
than it looks, for in the last 10 years no
less than £1,137,110 has been openly struck
off the book value of assets in order to
cover depreciation, etc. How much of that
amount was actually necessary the “Wild
Cat” does not know, but it suspects that a
lot of true profit has been thus whisked away
to inner reserves.
The co.’s chief sources of profit are its own
big and widely scattered merchandising, lend-
ing and shipping business, which spread from
Queensland to the rest of Australia, and out
over the Pacific Islands, and then north to
Java and elsewhere. In addition it has
large subsidiary interests from some of
which it has extra pickings as manager and
agent. The chief holdings are as follows:
Issued 8.-P.’s Last
Capital. Holding. Div.
Burns Philp (South Seas)
Co £750,000 £500,000 7i p.o.
Queensland Insurance .. 500,000 249,000 12i „
A.U.S.N. Co 20,200
Choiseul Plantations .. 150,000 20,400 9 „
Solomon Islands Develop-
ment Co. .. .. 95,000 10,450 4J „
Shortland Islands Planta-
tions .. .. .. 43,535 3,400 5 „
Jantzen (Aust.), Ltd. .. 65y000 5,999
In nearly all cases the subsidiaries look like
giving bigger and bigger returns.
In 1920 the co. passed over its Island
interests in groups not controlled by the
Commonwealth to the South Seas Co., whose
divs. crept from 5 p.c. in 1923 to 7\ p.c.
last year. The bulk of the holding in Queens-
land Insurance—incidentally, 2000 shares
were sold during the year—represents bonus
additions made between 1911 and 1920, and
further additions of a similar nature might
not be very far distant. At any rate, the
market expresses its hope by paying 665. for
that co.’s pound shares. The A.U.S.N. Co.
does not publish its figures. The holding in
the Jantzen Co., which is the child of an
American parent, was taken up during the
last term, and 8.-P. are the sole selling
agents here for the co.’s products—chiefly
swimming suits made in Australia. In addi-
tion there is an American subsidiary, 8.-P.
and Co. Incorporated, which was formed iu
San Francisco in 1917.
The parent 8.-P. goes on letting out its
belt, as this comparison of balance-sheet
figures shows: —
1915. 1925. 1928. 1929.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital 1,000,000 1,250,000 1,500,000 1,500,000
Liabilities.. 261,095 1,361,444 1,357,110 1,302,798
P r operties,
shipping, in-
v e stments,
etc. .. 575,790 2,030,836 2,174,080 2,196,549
Stocks, ad-
vances, etc. 573,147 683,968 787,596 807,406
Book debts 382,624 781,838 1,008,669 1,016,140
Cash . . 47,018 123,955 163,887 79,208
Though the debt is substantial the more or
less liquids, including stocks, are nearly
£600,000 in excess of it. The growth in the
book value of fixed assets has been mainly
on account of property and shipping. Last
year a new passenger and cargo steamer was
put into commission, and plans are being
prepared for another one or more new vessels
for the co.’s Island and Singapore services.
The rapid growth of book debts during the
last few years has been assisted by the sale
of expropriated enemy properties in the Man-
dated Territory and elsewhere.
The market, eager in its anticipations of
benefits, pushed the price for the scrip to
50s. in March, but, following the publication
of the directors’ report, quotes eased to
sellers 475.; buyers, 455. At the middle price
the return is only 4.3 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. On the same basis, and at the same
price, the investor Vho looks for only 5.8
p.c. on his holding thus counts on a one-
for-three bonus issue. If the div. was lifted
to 12£ p.c. the return would be 5.4 p.c. The
disclosed backing amounts to 365. ,3d. per
share in net tangibles.
Sun Newspapers, Ltd. (Sydney).
Towards
Re- Re-
Mar.. Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
r -C £ £ £
1918.. 15,116 7 p.c. = 14,745 371 10,504
1919.. 24,526 12-J „ „ 23,750 776 11,280
Co. reconstructed. Assets written up and goodwill
assessed at £245,633. Three £1 shares paid to
17s. 6d. each issued for every £1 share previously
held. Goodwill is not treated as an asset hereunder.
Deficit.
245,633
Add new co.’s preliminary exes., £3,048 248.681
1921.. 56,910 11.1 p.c.=t 50,576 6,334 242,347
Goodwill transferred to Mel-
bourne co., £25,000.. .. .. 217,347
1922.. 103,100 13.3 p.c.= 77,922 l 3 178 214,109
Written off, £22.000 )
1923.. 105,440 11.1 p.c.= 72,274 33,166 181.003
Goodwill items, £16,097 .. .. 196,100
1924.. 82,109 11.1 p.c.= 80,978 1,131 194,969
1925.. 116,655 11.1 „ ~ 97,316 19.339 175.630
1926.. 136,827 11.1 „ ~101,487 35,340 140,290
Reserve disappears, £12,500 .. .. 152,790
Reserves.
■ Realisation and removal reserve,
£297,059 144,269
1927.. 148,581 13.3 p.c.=122,553 26,028 170,297
1928.. 157,224 13.3 „„ 123,267 33,957 204,254
1929.. 182,840 15.5 „ ~143,360 39,480 243,734
Despite heavier provision for taxatiou
(£68,947 last year) and a further increase
in production costs, due mainly to a bigger
wages bill, the spring in the year’s admitted
net earnings was £25,616. This was a juicy
20.3 p.c. on paid capital compared with 17.4
p.c. and 16.5 p.c. in the two preceding years,
and was more than half as great again as the
net earnings of only four years ago. Share-
holders joined in. the prosperity, receiving
a bonus of 2 p.c. on the face value of their
scrip (£1), making 15.5 p.c. for the year
on the amount paid up (18s. per share). The
£39,480 of the year’s profit that then remained
in the business —£25,000 of it has been ear-
marked to provide against a possible increase
in costs during the transfer of operations to
the new building, about August next —made
reserves £243,734. That figure is arrived at
after deducting the goodwill items
(£225,000), which are very mercurial ele-
ments in a newspaper’s balance-sheet. Also,
it does not include the plant, machinery and
buildings reserve (£120,872, up £38,255 dur-
ing the year) and provision for contingencies
and taxation (£108,074). The latter amount,
to which £52,283 net was added during the
term, probably contains some true profit.
The present co. started in 1910, when Some
energetic people bought the assets of the
Australian Newspaper Co. for £28,000, or
£3132 less than they were then said to be
worth; and as the old Stab sank, after a
long and rather painful life, the Sun rose. Then
the war arrived; it helped circulation, but
sent up the price of newsprint Shamefully.
However, there was no question about the
field open to the co., so as soon as the Big
Disturbance ceased the ambitious manage-
ment set to work on a vigorous policy of
development. The Newcastle Sun, which has
since become a handy contributor to profits,
was added to the co.’s interests. In 1929
there was a reconstruction; paid capital
advanced from £196,910 to £551,165 by the
issue of bonus scrip, goodwill being assessed
at £245,633. Next, activities spread to Mel-
bourne ; but after the Evening Sun had
ceased publication the goodwill of the Sun
Pictorial was sold to a competitor, and the
co. withdrew from the field without serious
damage. After that the management looked
round with a view to establishing a morning
pictorial in Sydney. Negotiations with the
Daily Telegraph, which had transformed
itself into such a sheet, resulted in the for-
mation of the Daily Telegraph Pictorial,
Ltd., in Dec., 1927 (nominal capital £500,000,
of which £345,813 has been issued), control
vesting in the Sun. The latter had sold it 3
rights to publish morning papers in Sydney
to the new concern for £73,581, and agreed
to take up 50,000 ords. for cash ; together,
£123,581. The lot now stands fully paid in
the Pictorial Co.’s books, but the Sun Co.
has taken no account whatever of the good-
will payment; its investments, up £49,857
over the last two years, figured at £59,723
at March 31. The Pictorial Co., whose trad-
ing figures have not been disclosed, is re-
ported to be making satisfactory progress:
circulation is on the increase, and the move
from the old Telegraph building to new pre-
mises in Phillip-street is expected to reduce
production costs. At present the intention
is that any profits made by the Pictorial Co.
during the next couple of years are to be kept
in the business.
Other activities are reflected in this com-
parison of balance-sheet figures:—
1919. 1927 1928 1929.
Paid capital. . £196,910 £898,605 £900,000 £900,000
Liabilities .. 37,197 97,694 68,485 273,175
Premises .. 61,370 126,733 178,778 379,i82
Plant, etc. . . 79,784 241,004 269,997 384,659
Stocks .. 86,703 118,657 82,393 70,839
Book debts .. 34,347 161,560 151,698 178,590
Gash, etc. .. 18,968 38,596 989 1,161
Investments .. 9,866 35,500 59,723
Goodwill . . 225,000 225,000 225,000
City Council claim 592,810 592,810 592,810
The co.’s claim against the Sydney civic
authorities on account of the resumption of
the old office property to allow of the exten-
sion of Martin-place was unchanged at
£592,810 when the books were last ruled off;
but £lOO,OOO has since been received on
account, and Justice Pike will determine the
final figure at an early date.
Meanwhile good progress has been made
with the co.’s new premises in Elizabeth-
street, near by. The site there was bought
years ago when the management sensed the
possibility of having to make such a move.
During the year £200,368 was added to the
book value of freeholds and £114,662 to that
of plant, etc. To do this the board went
outside for an extra £204,690; thus the debt
rose to £22,585 in excess of stocks, book
debts and cash at March 31. But the settle-
ment of the resumption claim should alter the
position in this respect.
The rapid growth of profits has increased
the popularity of the scrip, for which 465.
6d. was paid a year ago; now it is in demand
at 58s. The return at that figure is 5.3 p.c.
on a !5£ p.c. div. basis. The backing, apart
from the plant and contingency reserves re-
ferred to above, is 255. sd. in’net tangibles.
The possibilities of the scrip as an invest-
ment depend partly upon the success or other-
wise of the Pictorial.
Younghusband, Ltd. (Melbourne).
Net To
Mar., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1918.. 23,341 10 p.c. = 6,982 16,359 60,093
1919.. 24,265 15 „ „ 10,473 13,792 63,885
1920.. 29,183 15 „ ~ 10,473 18,710 82,595
1921.. 12,140 10 „ „ 8,491 3,649 86,244
1922.. 11,382 10 „ „ 10,000 1,382 87,626
Surplus from sale of property 3,750 91,376
1923.. 23,640 15 p.c. = 15,000 8,640 100,016
1924.. 25,405 15 „ „ 15,000 10,405 110,421
New share premiums .. 12,500 122,921
1925.. 32,834 15 p.c. = 22,500 10,334 133,255
1926.. 28,598 15 „ ~ 22,500 6,098 139,353
1927.. 30,484 15 „ „ 22,500 7,984 147,337
Premiums on shares .. 75,000 222,337
1928.. 41,762 15 p.c. = 33,958 7,804 230,141
1929.. 52,141 15 „ „ 37,500 14,641 244,782
This old Melbourne co.—it has been hand-
ling wool, grain and produce in Vie. and
southern N. S. Wales for 40 years—was a
proprietary concern until 1920, when paid
capital was lifted from not quite £70,000 to
£lOO,OOO. The co. developed greatly during
the war years, when more of the profits were
kept in the business than were passed on to
shareholders. In this way visible reserves
slightly in excess of paid capital had been
accumulated at the close of accounts in 1923,
the co. thus equipping itself to earn a high
rate of profit on its capital. For this reason
the £150,000 of new share capital has pro-
duced a good premium, amounting in all to
£87,500. This, with surplus earnings,
advanced the visible lay-by to within £5218
of the £250,000 of paid capital at March 31
last. Hence the 15 p.c. div., which has been
an annual event for the last seven years,
remains a comfortable matter in fair times,
calling for only 7\ p.c. earnings. Actually
10.7 p.c. was netted last year. The pre-
miums, of course, have taken some of the
gilt off the gingerbread as far as share-
holders are concerned; still, the scrip has
always stood above the issue price, so the
new shares have been as good as a bonus.
Last year revenue was swollen by the dis-
tribution of the Woolbrokers’ Commission
Trust Fund (£332,000-odd), hitherto held by
Bawra. Exactly how much Younghusbands
received from this sourep is not disclosed;
the chairman says profits therefrom have
been included in appropriations to reserves.
which amounted to £12,000, or £7OOO more
than in the previous term.
The £52,141 netted for the year was
£10,379 better than the 1928 figure, and
equal to 20.8 p.e. on average capital com-
pared with 18.4, 20.3, 19.1, 21.9 and 15.4
p.c. back to 1924, when wool sold at hitherto
unheard-of prices. Here is a close-up view
of the position with comparisons showing
the co.’s progress over the last seven years:
Wool Sold, Exes., p.c.
Bales. Gross. Exes., etc. of Gross.
1923.. 68,106 £93,487 £69,847 74.7 p.c.
1924.. 48,968 90,073 71,668 79.6 „
1925.. 39,242 107,812 74,978 69.5 „
1926.. 73,562 108,061 79,463 73.5 „
1927.. 71,137 113,215 82,730 73.1 „
1928.. 67,062 124,863 83,101 66.5 „
1929.. 76,732 142,369 90,228 63.4 „
Although an extra 9670 bales of wool were
sold last year, the Australian average price
was only £22-odd per bale, or about £3 less
than the previous year’s. Nor did the sea-
son favor big returns from the produce sec-
tion. But stock prices strengthened, and
the co. went deeper into the pastoral finance
business, and that helped.
The lines upon which the business is
developing is obvious from this comparison:
1922. 1927. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital. . £lOO,OOO £150,000 £250,000 £250,000
Liabilities .. 149,271 223,196 187,795 258,095
Premises and
plant . . 77,339 110,352 125,487 139,361
Book debts, etc. 235,652 408,487 446,407 624,200
Invest nents,
cash, etc. . . 30,526 11,218 116,255 9,005
Merchandise .. 3,380 5,476 4,788 5,310
Although £175,000 of new share and pre-
mium capital was got in during the previous
term, the management, in order to meet the
demand for accommodation from the co.’s
clients, went outside for an extra £70,300
last year, when no less than £177,793 was
added to book debts, which have almost
doubled in the last three years. And to cope
with the bigger volume of business, additions
were made to the co.’s stores in Melbourne,
£13,874 more being spent than was written
off on property and plant. A new wool store
at Albury had been put up during the pre-
vious term. Liabilities at March 31 looked
large in relation to capital, but taking re-
serves into account there was only 10s. sd.
of outside money at risk in the business for
every £1 owned by shareholders. And the
debt was more than twice covered by book
debts alone.
A rumor that the board was contemplat-
ing amalgamation with Goldsbrough Mort
has been officially denied, but the market for
the scrip has remained unaffected. Buyers
recently expressed their confidence in the man-
agement and the future by paying 525. for
the pound shares, which have a visible back-
ing of 395. 7d. each in net tangibles. After
allowing for the final div. and bonus (25.)
the return at the current price is 6 p.c. oh
a 15 p.c. div. basis.
Gibson and Howes, Ltd. (Q.).
Net To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1921.. 48,747 20 p.c. = 42,00 0 6,74 7 2 5,088
1922.. 50,196 20 „ „ 42,0 0 0 8,19 6 33,284
Reserves capitalised, £30,00 0 .. 3,284
1923.. 28,353 8 p.c. = 19,200 9,153 12,437
1924.. 56,669 12 „ „ 28,800 27,869 40,306
Reserves capitalised, £40,000 .. 306
1925.. 34,926 8 p.c. = 22,400 12,526 12,832
1926.. 21,918 8 „ „ 22,400 12,350
1927.. 36,020 10 ~ „ 28,000 8,020 20,370
Reserves disclosed, £4050 . .. 24,420
1928.. 23,163 8 „ „ 22,400 763 25,183
Profits are in and out according to seasons
and prices. Last year Queensland’s sugar
output reached, a record 515,134 tons, which
was 29,639 tons more than the previous
season’s. But in the circumstances of the
trade in Australia growth is not always an
advantage. Only 64.3 p.c. of the year’s total
tonnage was delivered for local consumption
at the declared price of £26 13s. 6d. per ton;
the balance, the export surplus, was given a
net value of £lO 10s. per ton, subject to real-
isation adjustments. These are expected to
lift the bare price paid for raws, under
arrangement with the Queensland Govern-
ment, from £l9 Bs. to £2O 155., which is
255. 4d. below the previous year’s price. That,
of course, directly affected the earnings of
this Bundaberg milling co., which is also
interested as a grower—it owns Bingera
plantation, comprising some 8000 acres on
the Burnett. Also an increase in the award
price paid for cane bought from farmers cut
into the co.’s profit margins at the buying
end. And, finally, notwithstanding the
State’s bigger production, a dry spell over
this co.’s district is said to have reduced the
crushing below early estimates, though
figures on the subject are not available.
One result of all this was a slip of £12,557
in the year’s declared net profit; a couple
of points were chipped off the div., reducing
it to 8 p.c. again, and even then there was
little to spare. Only once since the scrip
was listed seven, years ago has a poorer
profit been shown; the £23,163 netted was
only 8.3 p.c. on paid capital compared with
12.9, 7.8 and 12.5 p.c. back to 1925, which was
the year following the last gift scrip issue
of £40,000. Two years before that £30,000
of bonus scrip had been handed out; hence


Do not be misled by the exaggerated statements of
Magsmen and Go Getters -
- dig your facts out of the Prospectus
You would not buy a house, motor-car or even a wheelbarrow without
first satisfying yourself that you were getting good value for your
money —then why not apply this excellent rule to the purchase of oil
shares?
It is a fact that successful oil ventures in other countries have yielded,
and continue to yield, spectacular profits to the investors.
It is a fact that successful oil ventures in this country will do the
same
It is a fact that the discovery of oil in Australia or her
territories will be followed by a wave of prosperity never
before experienced in the history of this country.
By all means assist in the search; your spare capital
could not be better employed, but before purchasing
shares in an oil venture, first assure yourself on the
following points:—
(a) That the Directors of the Company are
reputable men,
(b) That the oil areas to be worked have
been favorably reported on by a
competent and reputable geologist.
(c) That the capital of the Company is
adequate to thoroughly develop
the areas.
I
is*
m
i
m
i
THREE OIL FIELDS
-ONE INVESTMENT
ROM A-ORMILD AH
ASSOCIATED
OIL FIELDS LIMITED
CAPITAL, £500,000
MANDATED TERRITORY OF NEW GUINEA.
Area held, 1000 square miles —bore sunk thereon to
2700 ft. Area definitely “proved petroliferous.
Anglo-Persian Oil Geologists surveying for Federal Govern-
ment have just completed six months examination of the
Company’s area.
QUEENSLAND.
Company holds TWO 10,000-acre blocks with a remarkably
strong anticlinal structure running through both areas.
(a) The Directors of the Company are reputable men—
reference to the Prospectus will prove this.
(b) All areas held by this Company have been closely
examined and strongly recommended by Dr. H. 1.
Jensen, D.Sc., late Chief Government Geologist and
Director of Mines, Northern Territory, and late Chief Gov-
ernment Geologist of Queensland —Australia s most eminent
oil geologist. . _ t ,
(c) Full financial estimates are incorporated in the Prospectus, and
inspection of these will disclose that the capital of the Company is
more than adequate to carry to finality the Company’s programme.
A Prospectus has been prepared which is generally acknowledged to be the most comprehensive and straightforward in connection with.an‘
that has ever been placed before the Australian public, and if you will kindly forward the coupon below, a free copy will be sent you without any
obligation on your part. ROMA-ORMILDAH ASSOCIATED OIL FIELDS, LIMITED,
Telephone, 81896. Rote Chambers, 1!) O’Connell Street, Sydney. Telephone, 131896.
The Secretary,
Roma-Ormildah Associated Oil
Dear Sir,—Kindly forward to
Prospectus without any obligation
Fields, Ltd., Sydney. Date
me at your earliest convenience a copy of your interesting and instructive
on my part
NAME . .
ADDRESS
Bulletin, 22/5/’29,


' ■
PAIN
Get your
m t
VMlfe
TS ai
and
VARNISHES
from
agents
EVERYWHERE.
THEY "KEEP ON KEEPING ON /"
Are Your Invest-
ments ROCKY?
MORE THAN HALF
OF ALL REGISTERED
COMPANIES FAIL.
<r
ONLY THE EXPERT
CAN READ THE SIGNS
Australia’s leading ex-
pert is
“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY.”
MAY NUMBER NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY. 2/-; PER ANNUM. 22/6.
From Newsagents, or "Bulletin" Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
“Pioneer” Wood Pipe continues to give the most
thoroughly efficient service long after metal pipes
have ceased to be effective. The life of ‘ Pioneei
Wood Pipe is practically everlasting, as it is un-
affected by extremes of heat and cold, and is abso-
Iritely non-corrosive. Cheaper to buy and instal,
absolutely permanent and of proved efficiency. Send
for free copy of latest catalogue. The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Figtree
Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at Footscray,
Victoria. — Advt.
* * * *
Minino Properties. —l have large London Capital
available for approved Properties—Gold, Tin, lode
or alluvial, and Silver-lead. Reply with particulars
to “London,” c/o Mercantile Exchange, 380 Collins
Street, Melbourne, C.l. — Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coplison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES —AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
&
pOQRD&SON
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM .
%
DT
-Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents. 26/30 Clarence St.,
Sydney
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Offices Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Tire Office in. Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-Glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone,
etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
last year’s 8 p.c. div. was worth 10.7 p.c.
to old holders.
The £25,183 of visible reserves is not
much of a buttress for the present £280,000
of paid capital. (Incidentally, a non-taxable
war-loan interest reserve of £4050 was dis-
closed for the first time last year.) But in
addition to the accumulations shown in the
table there is £40,389 (up £11,597 during the
year as against an increase of £7902 in the
previous term) put aside to cover deprecia-
tion, etc., on the fixed assets (£281,000),
with which is lumped an unspecified amount
of shares in other cos. The total allowance
does not appear to be very robust; but it
is not the only provision, as the Government
valuator disclosed in 1921 when he assesed
the factory and plant alone at £223,000 —
they tin'll stood in the books, including the
plantation and other freeholds, at only
£102,031.
Here is the co.’s position as far as balance-
sheet figures disclose it, with comparisons
back to 1923 :
1921. 1927. 1928.
Paid capita] .. .. £210,000 £280,000 £280,000
Liabilities . . . . 16,205 18,594 8,541
Freeholds, machinery,
plant, etc, .. . . 162,031 255,612 281,066
Stocks 30,851 63,545 35,911
Government securities.. 16,000 15,910 15,910
Debtors, cash, etc. .. 65,211 32,690 35,625
During the year £25,454 more was spent on
the chief earning assets than was written
off: as a result of this the crushing rate was
increased and other advantages were gained.
To meet the outlay and snip £10,053 off the
debt liquids were drawn upon. Thus the more
or less liquid surplus (£78,905), including
stocks, was £14,640 lighter than at the pre-
vious balance.
The immediate outlook is for another heavy
crushing, and, as stated above, that is not
always an advantage. The scrip, for which
275. was paid a couple of months ago, eased
to 245. Gd. following the publication of last
accounts. At the latter price the return is
6.6 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The cover
amounts to 21s. lOd. per share in net
tangibles.
Hotel Sydney, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1923.. 16,450 12J p.c.* = 15,387 1063 1,279
1924.. 15,252 10 „ „ 14,083 1169 2,448
1925.. 16.917 10 „ „ 13,000 3917 6,366
1926.. 16,723 10 ~ „ 13,000 3723 10,088
*l4 months.
1927.. 14,653 10 „ „ 13,000 1653 11,741
1928.. 14,961 10 ~ „ 13,000 1961 13,702
The Hotel Sydney, an Arthur Rickard
venture, w T as built by Central Palace Build-
ings, Ltd., a year or so before the war on a
50-year leasehold acquired from the City
Council. At the beginning capital was
shy, so the co. had to go heavily into debt
to finance its programme. Also it took five
years, a fight in the courts and an amend-
ment of the Act to get a license, and it was
not until 1921 that shareholders came into
the picture. Then most of the 8 p.c. cum. prefs.
-—they represented nearly four-fifths of the
capital—were exchanged one for two 74
p.c. cum. prefs. in the Rickard Ex-
tended Co., of which the Hotel thus
became a subsidiary. Incidentally, the
holding co. has since disposed of the
whole of its interest. Steady progress
was made and in 1923 the Palace Buildings
Co. was reconstructed. The assets were writ-
ten up £65,000, the present title was adopted
and two new shares were handed out for
every one (pref. or ord.) previously held,
making paid capital £130,000. From that
point the introductory table takes up the
story.
To meet the growing demand for accom-
modation it was soon decided to enlarge
the building. The work was completed early
in 1927, and with over 70 extra rooms a
substantial increase in earning was expected
without a corresponding leap in exes. Thus
far anticipations have not been realised.
Gross profits have been slow to respond;
they were £53,559 in 1926 and £57,972 last
year when the improvement amounted to
only’ £1392, or less than half the improve-
ment for the previous term, though takings
should have benefited in Sept, last when the
Eucharist Congress brought a lot of people
to Sydney. Exes., on the other hand, have
stepped along briskly, consuming 74.2 p.c.
of last year’s gross profit as against 74 p.c.
and 68.7 p.c. in 1927 and 1926 respectively.
Thus the year’s net result was 11.5 p.c. on
paid capital compared with 11.2, 12.8, 13,
11.7 and 10.7 p.c. back to 1923. The board
blames drought and “somewhat uncertain
conditions” for the poorer showing. Though
the public probably dipped deeper into its
pockets for its cash last year, wool and dairy
produce brought in fat returns, metal prices
were up and Government loan funds were,
and still are, being freely spent—far more
freely than they can possibly be raised in
all tiie future. Conditions for this co., and
others too, might therefore easily become
much’worse; indeed, they almost certainly
will. So until margins between earnings
and distributions widen and capital gets a
good deal more support, the 10 P-c. div. is
by no means secure. .
In order to tinance the recent building
programme the co. went to its bankers
That and other things are visible, in nus
comparison of balance-sheet figures:
1925. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital .. .. £130,000 £130,000 £130,000
Overdraft .. •• 19, 125
Creditors . . . • 6,474 8,748 8,498
Buildings . . • • 137 ’ 3 Z 3 I Qn’nr
Purniture and plant .. 25 £ 3
Book debts, cash, etc... 3,009 4,761 ,
During the year £0438 was clipped off the
overdraft, and the excess of liabilities over
more or less liquids ( £45,484) was hgh tenef !
bv £5140. The lease runs out in 1-IGO, and
a sinking fund has been created; but the
board has not yet been in a position to invest
the appropriations outside the business, me
amount set aside out of last year’s earnings
to provide for amortisation and for the re-
newal of plant and furnishings was £5745
Much depends upon the adequacy of it.
The market, which paid 245. for the scrip
a vear ago, expresses its confidence m the
future by now paying 265. 6d. The return
at that figure is a shade over on aIU p.c.
div. basis.
Tin Selection Trust, of London, a big hold-
ing co. with Australian affiliations, has
cabled its Australian agents saying that it
is in no wav connected with, and lias no
knowledge of, the recently-reported otter
made by Tin Selection Trust, Rangoon, to
Huey Yot for the purchase of the latter s
property in Siam. Tin Selection Trust
(London) has interests in Rangoon through
the Tavoy Tin Dredging Co., in which it
is a shareholder. It was presumed locally,
even by Tin Selection Trust’s Australian
connections, that the well-known London co.
was behind the offer to Huey Yot.
Last week-end the position was more or
less cleared up ,by the co.’s Sydney office
informing the Stock Exchange l that the name
of the negotiator was Mines Selection Trust
of Rangoon, the name of Tin Selection Trust,
Rangoon, having been, so it is said, inadver-
tently given iii the circular to shareholders.
The position now is that the meeting called
in Penang for April 11 to confirm the sale
vvas, 'on legal advice, adjourned to enable the
negotiator to complete certain business in
London. This was expected to take 14
days, final payment to be made on com-
pletion of formalities.
The offer made on behalf of Mines Selection
trust was £166,000 cash —20s. per ord. and
275. 6d. per pref. share. Also shareholders
were to be offered share for share at par
in a new English co. to be formed to work
the property. . . .
The ords., which had advanced to within
easy reach of the purchase offer, slumped
to 11s. 7d. following the cable from Tin Selec-
tion Trust, of London.
sic sic sic *
When the long-thouglit-of central power
plant at Broken Hill is operating the Silver-
ton Tramway will need to thoroughly con-
sider whether it would be more economical
to change from steam to electric traction.
At the present rate of extraction Broken
Hill has at least 50 years of life ahead, and
the price of power from the new plant, when
operating, is expected to be less than Id. per
unit. A conversion from steam to electric
locomotives has recently been made in out-
back Mexico on 15 miles of 2ft. 6in. track.
Double-unit locomotives of trolley-wire type
are used, each weighing 25 tons; they are
800 h.p. and shift 200 tons per trip. The
change-over has allowed double the tonnage
to be handled per 24 hours, the cost has
been reduced from 2.3 d. per ton mile to
1.1 d., and maintenance charges lightened.
-Jc :|: * *
The Whitworth Finance and Mining Cor-
poration, of London, which is lo develop the
mines at Irvinebank (N.Q.),_ recently
acquired options over a tin area in South-
West Africa and the Engineer Creek gold
areas in Fairbank, Alaska. The African
property is expected to produce 1J p.c. tin
ore at the rate of 300 tons per day, and the
Alaskan area is to be dredged. The Queens-
land mines are expected to produce ore rang-
ing from 1 to 3.6 p.c.
* * * *
Most of the “heavy” or “black” sands
occurring at Byron Bay and elsewhere in
N. S. Wales and in Tasmania contain the
brownish mineral zircon (zirconium sili-
cate), which is the important ore of zir-
conium metal and zirconia, the oxide; and
both of these are now being used in increas-
ing quantities. Zirconium metal is used
as an abrasive in high-speed steels, and
when alloyed with tin as a gas igniter. Zir-
conia is one of the most important I’efrac-
tories, and is used for furnace-linings and
crucibles. It is also used for glazing
and in manufacture of opaque glasses,
in gas mantles and electric arcs. Zir-
con sand to-day is worth £2O per ton,
and the supply is said to be insufficient to
meet the increasing demand. These sands
are derived from decomposing granites and
pegmatites, and must be looked for in prox-
imity to these rocks. The mineral is con-
centrated by Wilfley tables and magnetic
separators, thus separating it from cassi-
terite, ilmenite and magnetite, which are its
usual associates.
* * * *
Magnesite occurs in many places in N. S.
Wales, usually as narrow veins in serpen-
tine and similar basic rocks. The State s
production has been constant for many years
at about 12,000 tons per annum, most ot
which is used for manufacture of refrac-
tories for steel and metallurgical furnaces.
Magnesite also occurs at Robertstown
(S.A.), and much more interest is being taken
in these deposits. The metal magnesium is
made from either the oxide or the chloride,
and the production in U.S.A. hasgrown
from 60.0001 b. in 1922 to about 400,0001 b. in
1928. Magnesium makes the lightest alloys
known, and alloys are being increasingly
used for aeroplane parts. The metal is sold
in sticks or ingots and is worth 3s. <xl. per
lb. Dead-burned magnesite—made by heat-
ins: ordinary magnesite in a kiln at 1 fOOdeg.
C. —is worth, in U.S.A., £4 10s. per ton, and
two tons of crude make one ton of dead-
burned.
* * * *
The mica being mined in Hart’s Range,
Central Australia, and dressed in Adelaide,
is reported from overseas as having gained
a good reputation among manufacturers. No
satisfactory material has yet been found
to take the place of mica m the electrical
industries, and its growing use in house-
hold electrical appliances, radio sets and
automobiles has markedly increased the con-
sumption. India produces 70 per cent, ot
the world’s sheet mica, and there are import-
ant deposits in Canada, Africa and South
America. , *
A. H. Collier takes with him to London
an 18 months’ option, from July 1, on the
Mararoa leases (W.A.). As London lias had
a hold on this show from January last, the
agreement is really a two-year affair. It
is a long tie-up; still, as London seems in
the mood to invest in Westralian properties,
Mararoa shareholders might have done worse.
The option holders are taking the little risk
there is; all Mararoa holders have to do is
wait. Ultimately they will receive either a
share in a proved show or have their pro-
perty returned to them in a well-developed
state.
* * * *
Wiluna Gold Mines will have spent a mil-
lion before a ton of ore moves through the
new plant. The new shaft, 25ft. by <ft., is
down 300 ft., and is connected with the east
lode from that point. Construction of the rail-
way from Meekatharra has commenced and
completion is expected before the. end or the
year By that time the first consignments ot
plant should be to hand waiting transport.
The plant is to be operated by large crude-
oil engines. It is a big scheme, and has
taken over a quarter-century to bring to its
present stage.
H: * *
Notwithstanding the earth tremor which
affected South Kalgurli’s hauling shaft in
March, the profit for April was. £3030
about the average of late—so the mine seems
to have survived the set-back. It has a high-
grade stope, and the result attained for
April suggests that it is not unduly drawn
upon in ordinary circumstances. Had all
rich ore shoots on the Boulder belt been
as judiciously handled there would be a
more pleasing prospect at Kalgoorlie to-day.
* * * *
Lake View and Star will use the Ivanlioe
shaft, depth 3600 ft., to work ground in Ivan-
hoe Lake View and Star, Golden Horseshoe
and Chaffers leases. The shaft is about, the
best on the field, and intended workings
from the bottom of it will make available
virgin ground in the other holdings above
the 3600 ft. level. It is a costly method of
making even proved ore reserves accessible
at such depth, but it is the cheapest that
offers. „ ±
* * * *
Some of the old spots at Bulong (W.A.)
are being worked again. In the days when
Coolgardie boomed Bulong was known as
XOU, and several of the shows looked so
good that their owners wanted fizz at every
meal Hundreds of ounces were dry-blown
daily, and the total alluvial output from the
field ran into 30,0000 z. or more. A few
reefing ventures, notably the Queen. Mar-
garet, flourished for a time; but what once
promised to be a fair-sized centre consists
now only of a few dug-in optimists and
many goats.
* * * *
Lanarkshire Co., with a few hundreds still
in hand, is anxious to hear of a “suitable
mining proposition.” The co. was hurriedly
formed in Adelaide at the beginning of the
Hampton Plains boom (W.A.) ; when it left
that field it took options on other Westralian
shows. Calls were made on the strength
of good reports, but nothing happened, and
for some time past it has remained inactive.
The recent rise in the price of lead has
again directed attention to Westralia s oldest
field, Northampton, and a few mines are
being worked. At. one time several cos.
operated successfully, but a falling market
and impoverished shoots forced them to gi\e
up. Now geophysical prospecting- is to be
tried as a means of finding new deposits.
* * * *
• At the Great Boulder, Ivalgoorlie, a move-
ment. damaged the main shaft between the
2500 ft. and 2600 ft. levels. While the damage
is being repaired supplies of ore from below
2500 feet will be decreased and so affect the
milling tonnage.
* * *
Arrangements have been made by Austral
Asiatic with the Anglo-Oriental Co., of Lon-
don, for the testing of the former co. s area
near Renong, on the west coast of biam.
Austral Asiatic’s engineer and staff will do
the boring, Anglo-Oriental footing the bill.
In the event of flotation the two cos. will
split Jhe profits. The area is 13,000 acres,
9000 being held under option and the balance
under E.P.L. The property, mostly man-
grove swamp, has a three-miles’ frontage, to
the sea. Twelve months should see the boring
finished, and a messy and mosquito-bitten job
it promises to be.


GEO. E. FORTESCUE 8 SONS
LIMITED.
New Issue of Shares.
The rapid development of this Company in connec-
tion with its Patent Power Take-Off and Patent
Transmission Gear for Tractors and Headers has
called for the introduction of more capital, and
the Directors of the Company have
decided to issue a parcel of 10°/»
Cumulative Preference Shares.
The business, which was originally established in
Victoria as far back as 1855, was transferred to
Arncliffe, Sydney, in 1904, and rapidly built up a
reputation in connection with Poison Carts, Fire
Fight ers, Water Carts, Windmills, Concrete Mixers,
Steel Wheels and Local Government appliances.
Latterly the Company has concentrated on the
manufacture of the Patent Take-Off and Patent
Transmission Gear, which inventions have proved
most efficient in reducing harvesting costs.
Already just on 500 (five hundred)
sets of the equipments have been
disposed of,
and the popularity which the equipments have
gained (as evidenced by numerous testimonials and
repeat orders) justifies the Directors in believing that
there is a great opportunity for the further expansion
of the Company in connection with the inventions,
which, after careful development during three years,
are now fully standardised.
The Board of Directors consists of;—
VICTOR CLAUDE SAYWELL, ESQ. ALBERT JOHN FORTESCUE, ESQ.
(Say well & Say well, Sydney), Chairman. Managing Director.
WILLIAM BRISSENDEN DOUST, ESQ. WILLIAM GEORGE JUDD, ESQ.
(Sydney Cold Stores, Ltd). (Hurstville Brick Works).
ALFRED GONINAN, ESQ.
(A. Goninan & Co., Ltd., Engineers, Broadmeadow, Newcastle).
Auditor: Solicitors:
JAMES TAYLOR, ESQ., F.C.P.A., MESSRS. SAYWELL & SAYWELL,
Dalton House, Pitt Street, Sydney. Cathcart House, Sydney.
Secretary:
JOHN McHUGH.
REGISTERED OFFICE: ARNCLIFFE, SYDNEY.
The Company has been consistently well managed
under the personal supervision of Mr. Albert John
Fortescue, who has originated and developed many
first-class products.
Further information, with Prospectus, may be obtained from the Secretary
-of Geo. E. Fortescue & Sons, Ltd., Arncliffe, Sydney.
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY
Bonuses a World’s Record
HUNGRY GOVERNMENTS
A T the Jubilee Annual Meeting of the City Mutual Life Assurance
Society, Mr. George Crowley, in a felicitous speech, said,
inter alia:—
“It is easy to propose the time-old conventional adoption of the annual
Report of a Society which, out of funds aggregating a modest five
millions of money, understates its assets by hundreds of thousands
of pounds, which creates reserves of other hundreds of thousands of
pounds, and which, in addition, pays to its 50,000 members the
largest bonuses of any of the world’s Life Offices, whilst carrying
over a balance large enough to double these record bonuses.”
As a logical corollary to Mr. Crowley’s speech, the following scale of
bonuses have been declared for the year 1928, and certificates are now
in course of preparation to send out to the Society’s 55,000 constituents: —
e
On all Endowment Assurance Policies under r> years in force, £27/10/- per £lOOO of Assurance
Is there any Life Office in the world
whose bonuses compare with these figures l
If so, the City Mutual will be happy to
exchange congratulations.
NOT A FLASH IN THE PAN.
These Bonuses are not “a flash in the
pan.”
This has been going on now for many
years.
A whole life policy effected 15 years
ago with the City Mutual would to-day be
worth no less than £l4BB/15/-.
Is there any Life Assurance institution
in existence whose bonuses compare with
this? If so, the City Mutual will be happy
to raise its hat. Even the three great
American life offices, each with funds repre-
senting a total more than twice the aggre-
gate of the whole of the Australian life
assurance offices combined, do not give results
anything like this. There are hundreds of
people throughout Australia who years ago
effected policies with these institutions.
They can verify the figures.
THE FUTURE.
Now, as to the future.
The future is in the lap of the gods.
For one thing, interest rates may coine
down. If so, all the better for Australia.
But it is evident if the City Mutual esti-
mates in its Actuarial calculations that its
investments will average 3i per cent, interest
in future, and the rate of interest paid by
Australian customers comes down to 3 per
cent. —as was our happy experience before
the war —well, it would not take Macaulay’s
schoolboy to understand that there is no
margin then for profit from the interest
section of profit factors..
So what would undoubtedly be a good
thing for Australia might mean quite possibly
leaner times for a while, at all events, so
far as bonuses were concerned for City
Mutual policy-holders.
WILL IT EVER COME BACK?
But will the rate ever come back in our
time to 3 per cent, or 3£ per cent.? It is
doubtful, very doubtful. The Australian
Governments are spending all the money they
can lay their hands on too lavishly for that
to take place, unless a change of heart takes
place.
However, the City Mutual management
lias looked ahead, and been careful in its
generation. In addition to under-valuing its
Five Million pounds of assets by hundreds of
thousands of pounds, it has also established
a contingency fund of £lOO,OOO to meet
emergencies. And last year the Directors set
aside no less than another £lOO,OOO solely for
the purpose of providing equalisation of
bonuses in the years to come.
So that in all human probability these
handsome bonuses will continue to be paid
for, at all events, another generation.
GOVERNMENTS HUNGRY.
We do not lose sight of the fact that
the various Governments, both State and
-Federal, are casting—have._ already cast—
I envious eyes on life-assurance funds..
! A life office may not have a body to be
kicked or a soul to be damned, but it cer-
tainly lias an income to be taxed, and the
Governments have found that out. Once a
tax is levied on life-assurance funds, farewell,
a long farewell, to any remission.
Like the stupid and irritating basic wage,
it grows by what it feeds on. And in all
probability, unless the people wake up,
there will be a lusty demand for more and
more as the years go on. Governments, un-
fortunately, have fallen from their one-time
high ideals that life-assurance funds should
be sacrosant. And when they fall they fall
like Lucifer —never to hope again.
However, while we are anticipating the
worst, and have prepared for the worst, we
hope for the best.
NOT ACHIEVED IN A YEAR.
These results in the way of bonuses to
which the Directorate is drawing attention
have not been achieved in a year, or a dozen
years, for that matter. They are the result
of nearly 30 years’ determined effort to put
the City Mutual on the map of the world’s
most successful life institutions.
The Directors carefully selected the busi-
ness they wrote. They did not go in year
by year for large and ever-growing big
figures, whether seasons were favorable or
otherwise.
They carefully conserved the business once
it was obtained, and scrutinised closely the
expense rate which the business cost.
There were, of course, the usual few mis-
takes made in the beginning, mistakes of the
head rather than the heart, but what com-
pany, or what individual, who has ever
succeeded, has not, at some time or another,
been involved in some initial error? He, if
he is a wise man, learns by his mistakes.
The aim of the institution was to make
each year just a little better than the last.
A slow and steady progress.
And the one outstanding, unconventional,
old-fashioned idea insisted on by the manage-
ment and the directorate of the City Mutual,
and perhaps the main factor in its wonderful
success —was that the management and the
directorate existed solely for the benefit of
the policy-holders. Not as some (unfor-
tunately too many) of the later generation
of assurance ventures, who apparently
cherish the idea that both shareholders and
policy-holders exist mainly for the personal
aggrandisement and pecuniary benefit of the
directorate and staff.
The Directors of the City Mutual Life
Assurance Society, who have every cause to
exult in the results that have accrued from
tiieir labors, are Messrs. Gerald J.- Barry,
A. .Tarvie Hood, George E. Bryant, Frank
E. Wall and George Crowley. Mr. G. F.
Diamond, A.1.A., is the Actuary; Mr.
N. H. D. Hopson, general secretary; and Mr.
j.’g, Taylor, secretary for New South Wales.


A NEW FRIEND FOR
THE HOUSEWIFE
. m
%
M
%<vs.es2ii'
BF3&\ 3
■ii'<
I?
mi
Think of Fresh Ripe
Raspberries and rich
cream, and delicious
cake-like biscuit, of a
quality unsurpassed
throughout the World,
the result of 60 years’
experience, and you will
appreciate the charm
of this new delightful
item for card parties,
afternoon teas, lunches,
suppers and picnics.
Ask your grocer to send
you a tin of Arnott’s
RASPBERRY FRUIT
CREAM BISCUITS.
Buy Australian-Made and Build Your
Childrens Future
For Economy Buy Whole Tins


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Pisk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
SHOES FOR MEN
é
CREPE RUBBER SOLE
WALKING SHOE
B 1 2 1 2.—Crepe Rubber
Sole Walking Shoe.
Superior Tan or Black
Calf. Full crepe rubber
welted soles and heels.
Half -sizes.
25/11
Post, 1/-; Interstate, 1/8
Write Desk B for Catalogue.
JACKSONS UP
"stonewall” stores
Cnr Pitt 6 Goulbum S 1 * Sydney.
w Depend On
Wunderlich Quality
Wunderlich Metal Ceilings
Wunderlich Roofing '(('les
Wunderlich “ Durabestos” Builcling
Sheets
Wunderlich Metal Shopfronts
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
For Forty Years, Manujacturers of Qualify
Products for Ceilings, Walls
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNE-LINSEED OIL
“Eureka”: Dave watched the pretty lady
at the show selling various lines. “Buy a
box of chocolates, sir?” she said; but Dave
grinned and told her that he didn’t eat
chocolates. “A packet of cigarettes, then?”
she asked. “Don’t smoke,” Dave told her.
“A nice book?” she tried again, “Don’t read,”
Dave replied. “Here’s a cake of soap, sir,”
she said. Dave hesitated a few seconds,
Then, “I’ll give in,” he grunted, and bought
it.
❖ * * *
“Sucre”: A group of S. Queensland
farmers were discussing their new shire-
council representative. “What do you think
of him down your way?” asked one. “Well,
I dunno as he’s quite an honest bloke,” was
the reply. “Would you call him a liar?”
continued No. 1. “Well,” answered No. 2,
“I wouldn’t go that far, but I do know
that when he wanted his pigs to come home
for their feed he had to get someone else
to call them.”
* * x *
“Eureka”: The climate on Southern
Monaro (N.S.W.) is completely changing,
and if this change continues I foresee the
time when Mt. Kosciusko will be devoid of
snow even in midwinter. Twenty years ago
I skated on the Bombala River and built
snow-men that lasted for several days, but
in recent years snow at Bombala is compara-
tively rare and the ice on the river (when
there is any on it) is too thin to support
a cat, and a snow-man would not last 24
hours. Some attribute the change to the
increased population and the consequent
destruction of the timber.
* * * *
“Mullarula”: Bushwomen in Australia
have taken on some strenuous 1 jobs, but few
have tackled a tougher proposition than
was handled some years ago by two girls,
the elder of whom was only 17 and the other
15, near Wee Waa (N.S.W.). Their dad’s
selection occupied a handy place for water-
ing carriers’ teams, but water was scarce, so
the two girls l sank a well 70ft. deep and
4ft. Gin. by 4ft. inside the slabs. They split
the slabs' themselves, carted them to the
spot, and timbered the well. Dad was work-
ing a team in another district at the time,
and knew nothing of the undertaking till he
returned to find the well finished. On days
when no one else was at home Mum thought
nothing of filling 50 yards of troughs in readi-
ness for any teams that might come along,
though a hand windlass was the only plant
for the job. Anyone who has had to hold a
windlass handle with one hand while landing
the bucket with the other will know what
that means.
* * *
“Torn P.”: Even the greybeards are
admitting that the present dry spell in S.A.
beats anything they’ve seen, so it must be
bad. Three of my neighbors have wells
tapping the same subterranean stream, and
when those wells began to feel the drain on
them each cocky darkly suspected the other
two of having secretly deepened his well
and pinched all the water. So all three
A PERQUISITE OF THE JOB.
THOMAS HENRY TREMAINE (making will ): “I do lave my gold watch an’ chain to
my second son, William John.”
WIFE: “That edden ’ardly fair, faather; eldest boay ought to ’ave that.”
THOMAS HENRY: “Damme, woman, who’s dyin’—me or you?”
went to work, and mounds of fresh blue and
yellow clay appeared by the three windmills.
Then the inevitable happened —they went
through the impervious pan of clay, which
held the water, into dry gravel, and now
they have no water at all —it’s all soaked
away. And I’m the one who’s suffering.
Each of those suspicious, pig-headed old
gdats is now carting his water-supply from
my well —which I had sense enough to leave
alone.
* * * *
“0.W.W.”: When Timi commenced to de-
vour some rather ancient boiled shark, nis
spouse sniffed doubtfully. “T’at fish orrite?”
she inquired after a large plateful had dis-
appeared. “You pet he orrite,” replied Timx,
with his mouth full. “Py korry!” said the
lady brightly, jumping up, “I kive some to
mv cat, t’en.” Timi meditates a divorce.
* * * *
“F.0.M.”: I have never seen a cat out
of breath, though I have often seen a dog
panting and a horse with heaving flanks
and lathered coat. The reason for this
appears to be that puss never makes sus-
tained demands on her energy. A dog will
follow his master till he almost drops with
exhaustion. A horse can be driven likewise;
but even in play a quarter of an hour’s con-
tinous effort is enough for a cat. To escape
danger, a dog will run for miles; so with a
horse; but "puss simply hops it for the
nearest safe retreat —she knows where to
find plenty—and there. she rests. That fine
sense of judgment which always lands her
on her feet after a drop also seems to enable
her to calculate the exact margin of safety
both from danger and over-exertion.
* * * *
“Up North”: Of the hard cases who
flocked to the desolate Kimberley rush in
1886 it would be hard to beat a cattle thief
who settled on the corner of a lonely Gulf
station near the Overlanders’ track to the
Roper. He rounded up a dozen niggers
and forced them to build him a shanty and
cattle yard; then turned them into stockmen
and in quick order had them mustering fat
station cattle for killing purposes. He sold
the beef to wayfarers at profiteering prices.
It was a month before the distant station
manager found out what was going on, but
when he did he bore down like a wolf on the
fold to be calmly told: “You can buy me out
if you want to.” What could the manager
do? The country for hundreds of miles be-
yond the station belonged to no one, and the
law didn’t run very rapidly in those paral-
lels. So the opportunist was bought out.
* * * *
“Ess”: Crimp’s place was overrun with
mice, and the snake expert, who lived next
door, persuaded the worried citizen to let
him place one of his harmless pythons under
the premises for a few days. “You can’t
beat a carpet for cleanin’ up mice an’ rats,
an’ the huntin’ will do him good,” said the
snake man. A couple of nights later, just
after the Crimps had retired and put the
light out, a blood-curdling yell from under
the bed frightened the lady into a faint. The
next moment out scrambled a total stranger,
who fought and jumped and kicked, and per-
formed various frantic contortions before
bolting into the outer darkness, leaving a
big snake behind him on the floor. He was
a burglar who had hidden under the bed to
wait till the inmates of the house should
be asleep, but the mouse-hunter, dropping
on and partly round his neck, had upset his
plans.
* * * *
“Jim Carew”: The spur-winged plover is
a most determined fighter. On the Upper
Hawkesbury River (N.S.W.) recently two
plovers fell out over the possession of a
bit of marshland, and for just on three
days they fought for it. The battle was
waged intermittently in the daytime, and
almost continuously at night. The birds
fought in the air, circling round each other,
with frequent fierce clashes. One was killed
at last, but it was over a week before we
heard the other one about the swamp.
* * H* *
“Mullarula”: The hardest timber in the
Australian bush from an axeman’s point of
view is belar. Mulga and coolabah are like
iron when dry, and yarran is not the sort
of stuff to try a razor on, but none of these
in their green state are as tough and hard
as belar. The axe must have just the right
temper for work on the hardwoods I have
mentioned. Attack belar or mulga with an
axe which is a shade too hard, and half the
face of the implement will suddenly fly off
before, you have been at work long. If the
steel is a little too soft the edge will turn
round and look at you. Some timbers which
cut. very easily when green become as hard
as iron later on. Mallee is not at all hard
to cut when green, but it is difficult to drive
a nail into a mallee rail which has been out
in the sun for about two years. Thoroughly
dry river-gum, from which the bark has
rotted away, is not nearly as hard as the
same timber after it has been dead about
six months.
* * * *
“0.W.W.”: Henare, my Maori neighbor,
weighs 19 stone, and local small boys call
him Barrel—a term he greatly resents.
Recently h© had a half-caste as a guest, and
one morning I received a ’plum? call from a
man who desired to speak to Ilenare’s friend,
so I sent my small son over to pass on the
information. When he returned, and tear-
fully announced that Henare had chased him
away, I went over and demanded an expla-
nation. “Too prurry right I chase him,”
declared Henare angrily. “He come here an*
say, ’Anypotty seen the harf-cask?’”
(Continued on page 25.)
THE SHEEPWASH LAGOON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The gum-trees are scarred where the rails
were mortised in
(Though each rail has decayed from its
place)
To mutely remind of the hours of toil and din
As the jumbucks were urged up the race.
But no vestige remains of the holding-yards
close by,
Where the must’rers and dogs yelped a
tune;
And the newchum who passes now is apt to
wonder why
They call it the Sheepwash Lagoon.
For he cannot know of the station-hands
that toiled
Where they washed out the dust from the
wool;
Of the oaths they recited till the water
nearly boiled,
While the jumbucks took headers in the
pool;
Of the way the rakers stirred ’em up to
open out the fleece,
Weary-armed through the long afternoon,
Till the “pois’ner” made supper, and the
starlight brought release,
To the hands at the Sheepwash Lagoon...
It’s pleasant to talk in a recollective way
Of sheep w r ork—its lure and romance —
But one cannot repeat all the things the
sheepmen say
As they frenziedly bellow and dance!
For Old Nick takes a hand, as merino-yarders
know,
And all patience is shattered full soon;
So it’s easy to conjure up the talk that used
to flow
Of old by the Sheepwash Lagoon.
ALTERNATIVE.
REFORMED DRUNK ( testifying ): “Fellers, take it from me! If you sozzles here you
sizzles hereafter.”
There are folks known as “mcjurns” who’ve
a key to Spirit-land,
And I wish one was somewhere in sight
Just to help me listen in while the ’washers
are on hand,
Talking over the old days to-night.
But I fancy their language might the
“mejum” appal
As they yarned ’neath some wan, spectral
moon;
For no mild parlor prattle would be likely
to fall
From those wraiths of the Sheepwash
Lagoon.
MAORILAND.
RIVERINA.


Who
travels on
DUNLOP
travels
well !
the World has found
no substitute
for
Experience
BORN of a knowledge gained by observation*
experience is a human element created by
tested practice and for which no equivalent
has been found.
Wisdom-skill- craftmanship are based on it— whilst
experience has brought into being the world’s greatest
enterprises some of which have had most far
reaching influences on civilisation.
Take Dunlop, who 40 years ago perfected the first
pneumatic tyre, and for 40 years has been accumu-
lating practical knowledge in the art of tyre making.
Only one tyre manufacturer has had such experience
Dunlop.
This experience plus the world’s best rubber and
fabric to-day enables Dunlop to build tyres unsur-
passed in those essentials desirable and necessary to
meet present motoring conditions. Users of these high
quality tyres gain extra mileage, because Dunlop knows
how to build tyres of extreme durability in fact,
-the World has evolved
no better tyre
than
DU NLOP
5000 GARAGES STOCK DUNLOP!
r
f t her e js
f SU %^t N e° 1
f T gol/ ERFec t '
f G /
ncs
ti 3
cao
ao
PoP
□ 3
0(g
040
oo
0/35
I
l
I
i ».y I
| I
I DUNLOP I
I maxflp i
each 1


PEAPES
clothe men AND their sons
Values are always good at
PEAPES, because PEAPES
sell at a definitely low price,
which need not make provision
for periodical “reductions,” as
PEAPES do not conduct
Thus it is that at PEAPES,
one can always obtain the most
exclusive goods -at a bedrock
price.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
Wif
THEGREYSf
SIZE oT WO
SILKCITT VIRGINIA
DRAP
LONDON
EYS
1® for <sdL CIGARETTES 2® for 1/&
They Satisfy
because they are made from 100
per cent, pure Virginia tobacco,
thoroughly matured. “Greys
have a reputation they cannot
afford to lose; they are therefore
consistent in their perfect quality.
“Greys” protect your palate and
leave no after taste. Let your
next smoke be a “GREYS.
Of course you
know “Greys
Heavyweights”
are now 1/- for
10; 2/- for 20.
Despair
in the ranks of the rabbit
results in
Delight
among the men who get the
skins if the consignment is
sent to Winehcombe Carson
for sale. They are specialists
e
in the sale of all classes of skins.
They sell them on commission only, never buying nor
dealing. Top market prices for skins are their
constant aim.
Consign Rabbit, Fox and all other Skins to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
I
Winchcombe House,
Bridge St., Sydney,
or
99-101 Eagle St.,
Brisbane.
“Pigcat”: About the end of ’O2, in Long-
reach (C.Q.), a bet was made that a horse
could cover the distance from L’reach to
Ilfracombe, about 17 miles, in an hour and
10 minutes. A jockey was engaged to
ride the chosen nag, and men were
sent ahead to open gates. The first
eight miles were done in 17 minutes,
and the horse then lay down and died.
One of the gate-openers, by chance or
otherwise, happened to be riding a
twin brother to the horse which
started. The jockey changed mounts
and sped on his way. Within a mile
or less of the Ilfracombe post office
the second horse turned up his toes.
There was still time to spare. A lorry
was quickly hired, driven down, and
the dead horse loaded on it. It was
driven past the post office, the jockey
sitting astride his dead mount, with
five or six minutes yet to go. Of
course, there was great argument, but
I never heard which side won. They
were hard at it in the- bar when I left,
and the dead horse, still saddled, was
lying on top of the lorry.
“Pfella”: Half-caste abos. are reckoned
the most dangerous of niggers, but even they
have their streaks of goodness. When
troopering in the nor’-wcst of Groperland I
kept an ebony-black Binglii under my eye
off and on for over three years, until I
finally, unmasked his villainy. He -was a
silent worker, a quiet, cunning, malicious
perpetrator of dirty deeds, and the. task of
sheeting his offences home required the
patience of Job. But I stuck it, albeit every
squatter laughed at my suspicion. A full-
blooded abo., they argued, was not capable
of the trickery displayed. I was advised to
devote my attention to the three half-castes
in the district. I caught my man, however
sheep-killing, and at the nearest station I
borrowed some turpentine. A smart rub
with this over portion of the prisoner’s hide
changed the black to semi-white. He after-
NO HALF-MEASURES.
MIDNIGHT (interfering in argument between Mary and her man) : “Here, you two bin
plenty yabber long enough.”
MARY: “Oh, you shut you mout’ —all of it.”
wards informed me a Broome Malay dyed
him black. But to get back to my original
contention. Unbeknown to my captive, I
had once seen him rescuing a foal out of a
swollen river when the task meant a tre-
mendous danger to himself. That act nearly
put me off his track.
* * * *
“Eureka”: There have been many claims
for the tallest tree in Australia, and trees
that have measured anything up to a thou-
sand feet have been mentioned. Some of the
A COME-DOWN.
“Patsy, boy, both y’r tyres are flat.”
“Shure an Oi know ul, Father. Oi let ’em down bekase th’ pate wuz too hoigh."
chaps who write on this page have no con-
science. The tallest tree officially recorded is
a mountain ash ( Eucalyptus regnans), which
grows near Thorpdale (Vic.), the height of
which is 375 ft.
* =i= * *
“Tuppence”: There used to be an old
fellow about Urandangie (W.Q.) whose two
j i , U/vfflo nnW rnn
great loves were the bottle and tne
turf. When he had about three in
he’d commence to lay the odds.
He had an imaginary penciller, a
supposititious ring and fictitious
money. He’d lay the odds . and
book fabulous bets, with occasional
adjournments to the bar, till he’d
swallowed about 30. Then he
knocked off being a bookmaker and
became owner, trainer, jockey,
starter and horse all in one. As
an owner he’d have a yarn with
himself as his trainer as .to his
horse’s chance. He’d then instruct
himself as jockey how he was _to
ride himself as a horse. He’d line
himself up at the barrier, and, as
a starter, fine himself as a jockey
a couple of quid. After a heap of
trouble, in which there’d be a num-
ber of false starts, he’d get himself
away. Once he’d got his position,
and was comfortably in the lead as
he raced round the pub, he’d turn
newspaper reporter and describe
the race as it was being run. The
old boy always won. Sometimes
it was a desperate struggle; but
when he got down on himself- and
rode a vigorous finish his pluck
used to tell, and he’d get home by
a neck. After he’d rubbed himself
down as a horse, weighed in as a
jockey, collected his bets as an
owner, paid his dues as a bookie
and sent in his reports as a news-
paper man, he used to revert to the
r6le of bushman and shout for all hands.
* * * *
“Mundowie” : “We were new on the run.
me an’ Sam,” said Jimmy the carter; “an’
after a couple o’ weeks’ straightenin’ up old
fences we sets off one night for town, about
three miles from our camp, to get some
things we wanted. We followed a twisty
bridle-track that we were told led on to the
road, somewhere about a mile from the
township. ’Twas pretty dark, but after
trampin’ what seemed a longish stretch for
the distance, we- got on to a good road, an
£>am says, T reckoned we were just about up
to it. Now we’ve got plain sailin’.’ It was a
nice wide road, which we were glad to be
on. But after we’d walked for another hour
Sam began to lose his confidence. ‘We’re
a long time gettin’ there,’ he says. ‘Can’t
be the wrong road surely?’ ‘l’m a bit
puzzled,’ I says to him. ‘This road seems
to be goin’ around an’ around.’ We took
more notice then, an’ found we were goin’
round. In fact, we were on the flamin’ picnic
racecourse. There was no fence or anything
but the circularity to identify it, an’ as it
was only used for grassfed races once or
twice a year there was 1 no road leadin’ off it
—only little horse-tracks. The circlin’ ’ad
upset our mental compasses, an’ we’d no
idea which way the town was. We mooched
along slowly till we found a track —an’ dash
me if it didn’t land us back at our own
camp.”
$ * * %
“Mango”: Fresh-water codfish are, in
their humble way, photographers. The tissue
near the backbone retains a- pictorial im-
pression of the surroundings in which the
fish is caught. R. L. Harvey, of the Roma
(Q.) branch of the Commonwealth Savings
Bank, has a photograph of a section of the
tissue taken from the backbone of a cod.
The flesh shows a well-defined picture of the
bough of a tree, and Mr. Harvey says the
impression is an exact reproduction of the
limb of the tree under which the fish was
caught.
* * * *
“Yulagi”: The Fijians in my district had
a fish fence on the beach, a long fence of
reeds ending in a trap, which was in about
two feet of water at low tide. With a good
market for their fish among the Europeans
and Indians, the owners of this fence began
to get up-to-date ideas and replaced the reeds
in the fence with wire netting of liin. mesh.
After each fall of the tide for some days
the fence was decorated with a glittering
mass of garfish with their heads caught in
the mesh, a quite unexpected result. Thou-
sands were caught each tide, garfish just
too large to pass the mesh and wonderfully
evenly graded. For a few weeks they were
plentiful and cheap, but the supply gradually
diminished till in the end the place seemed
to get a bad name in garfishy circles and
none at all were to be seen.
GIBBERAGEE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Where the station roofs had reared no stick
was showing,
There was little of the place we used to
know; , , .
Some old gateposts where the big yards
used to be,
Where the crack of stockwhips echoed long
ago;
And a lonely peach-tree growing
Where the creek was ever flowing,
Twisting round among the hills of Gib-
beragee.
Ghosts of old busli-mates seemed with us,
long years after,
As we camped again beside the broken
yard,
Whilst the curlews wailed around us
eerily,
As if for times when life was never hard,
When the stockmen’s hearty laughter
Seemed to shake each boxwood rafter
In the huts when day was done on Gib-
beragee.
There was jesting Jimmy Baxter from the
Bogan,
Ever working with his bullock-team and
slide;
Payne, the splitter, who had felled a
bigger tree
Than the biggest known in all the country-
side ;
And the breaker, Long Mick Hogan,
Who was after Kitty Logan,
Then the merry little belle of Gibberagee.
She was always in the front rank at the
muster,
When we wheeled the wild mobs through
the ironbarks,
Where the horses sped with bridles
swinging free
And their hard hoofs from the flint stones
striking sparks;
Though she got a stunning buster
Where the honeysuckles cluster,
And we carried her on bark to Gib-
beragee.
Bucking Buckland, too, was well up in the
battle
When the call was for the smart and skil-
ful hand;
It was he who rode, the old hands swore
to me,
The outlaw that bucked off the station
brand;
Reckless ’mong the wild bush cattle,
file would make the ranges rattle,
Swinging to the old bush camps on
Gibberagee.
In the smoke-drift Fancy pictured grinning
Dusky cohorts led by big Gohanna Bob.
Of old Frying Pan and Billy Budgeree,
In corroborees gay-dancing with the mob:
And abroad in whirling races
After scrubbers, and in chases
Through the myrtle-scented glens of
Gibberagee.
Thus around the blazing logs we sat and
listened
To the curlews and the ’possums by the
creek,
And called back the station’s vanished
company,
Where the clans were wont of old to hide
and seek;
Whilst the wild eyes watched and glistened,
As they did when wild men christened
That green camping-ground of ages—
Gibberagee.
N.s.w.
E.S. SORENSON.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers. .
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover ot
last Bulletin to hand. ,
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons. ...
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, Sydney, wants position in
country news- or estate-agency. Can type
and has general knowledge office work. —
215.
Young lady (23) seeks position as com-
panion, secretary or subsidised school-
teacher, college education, can drive and
repair car, go anywhere.—224.
Lady, Sydney, wants position as nurse or
companion, no objection T.B. case. —224.
Young man (24) wants position as station
book-keeper and tutor, N.S.W. or Vic. Three
years’ banking experience; has taken course
in station book-keeping, classified teacher
(Q’land), excellent refs. —211.
By young Scotsman, position on sheep-
station, Q’land or northern N.S.W.; two
years wheat-farming N.S.W.; two years
sheep-farming . S.A. —216.
Intelligent woman requires position as
private secretary. Experienced book-keeping,
interviewing, handling correspondence, short-
hand and type-writing. Refs. —143.
By youth (18), S.A., good family, High
School education, position as travelling com-
panion.—139.
By young lady (23), position Sydney
office; shorthand-typist, eight years’ experi-
ence provincial newspaper.—2s3.
Young man (20) wants job sheep-station,
N.S.W. or Q’land ; can drive car, holds book-
keeping certificate. —133.
By rouseabout (23), job with shearing
contractor, Vic. —199.
Pastrycook, Vic., own tools and a little
material, wants work, no proposition re-
fused.—lB4.
Lady, N.S.W., experienced subsidised
school-teacher, seeks position, cool climate
preferred.—lB9.
Job wanted by station blacksmith, N.S.W.;
can erect and repair windmills, pumps, shear-
ing machinery; make tanks, troughing; used
sheep and cattle. —259.
Invalid’s nurse, experienced, seeks position,
or w'ould keep house one or two ladies; North
Shore line, Sydney, preferred.—2sl.
By ret. soldier (Q.), widely travelled, posi-
tion as tourist guide, any part of world;
expenses 0n1y.—236.
By young lady (Q.), position as com-
panion or help, experienced.—232.
Reader, W.A., would like loan of works by
Marie Stopes.—234.
By. Sydney man, young, good athlete, posi-
tion of extreme hazard carrying worth-while
remuneration. —223.
Nurse (24), Sydney, literary, would like
to correspond with journalist.—l9B.
To buy, periodical containing color repro-
duction (about 20in. by 15in.) of Long-
staff’s “Menin Gate.” —179.
To buy book of vaudeville verses and mono-
logues by Nat Clifford. —146.
To buy copy “The Golden Shanty.” (To
A. J. Silvie, 141 Barclay-street, Carlton,
Vic.)
Words of “In Flanders Fields.” —9960.
Words of “Told in the Hut” and “The
Stockman’s Tale.” (To Sam Jensen, 1
Wandal-road, Rockhampton, Q’land.)
Information Sought.
Australian timbers suitable for building
small boat, Melbourne? —35.
Planking, Q’land red cedar; decks, Tas.
King William pine; ribs, frames and. seats,
Vic. white or red mountain ash. Red moun-
tain ash might also do for decking and plank-
ing. Tests of timbers for boat-building are
to be made in Melbourne; the Forests Com-
mission will doubtless announce results.
What time of the year does wheat harvest-
ing commence in (1) N.S.W., (2) Argentina,
(3) M.L., (4) U.S.A. (5) Canada, (6) Eng-
land, (7) Russia, (8) France, (9) South
Africa (10) India?—A.
(1) Dec. (2) Dec. (3) Jan. (4) May,
June and July. (5) Upper, July; lower,
Aug. (6) July. (7) Southern, July; Cen-
tral, Aug.; Northern, Sept. (8) June. (9)
Nov. (10) Feb. and March.
(1) Name of textbook giving instruction
on washing for gold and panning off, and
where obtainable? (2) Where could I learn
enough to enable me to commence prospect-
ing ? —137.
(1) Lock’s “Practical Gold Mining”; it
is expensive, but is available for reference
at the Public Library, Melbourne, or the
Geological Branch, Department of Mines.
(2) Apply to Working Men’s College, Mel-
bourne., for information re mining-class
course; but practical experience with an
alluvial miner would be essential.
Name the 10 largest towns in Vic., and
populations. —l 67.
At Dec. 31, 1927: Melbourne (975,160),
Geelong (42,300), Ballarat (41,910), Ben-
digo (33,910), Mordialloc (9110), Warrnam-
bool (8070), Castlemaine (7170), Carrum
(7000), Wonthaggi (6900), Milclura (6000).
Is our wedge-tailed eagle the largest in the
w0r1d? —9959.
No. though it may have a greater wing-
span than other species. As far as is known
Steller’s sea-eagle is the largest from head
to tail. It attains a length of 41in.; the
wedge-tailed eagle 38in., the golden eagle
36in.
(1) Where to apply for position as light-
housekeeper, N.S.W.? (2) Qualifications
and salary? (3) What chance is there for
a Dane, seven years' experience in Scandi-
navia n sailing-ships ? —6B.
(1) Deputy-Director, Navigation and
Lighthouses, Customs House, Sydney. (2)
Knowledge of flag-signalling and of Morse
code for night signalling, and boating
experience; applicants must have served at
sea as A. 8., or have previously been em- .
ployed on lighthouse duties, brom to
£266 p.a., with annual increments of £S. (o)
Probably not much ; preference is given to
Australian returned sailors and soldiers.
However, no harm in applying to Deputy-
Director, who will supply information regard-
ing vacancies.
Did the late Keith Anderson attempt a
flight from Australia to England to break
Hinkler's record? If so, when? —1-12.
Yes; he and Robert Hitchcock set out
from Sydney on Sept. 6, 1928; the machine
crashed near Pine Creek (N.T.)
How could I learn to became a draughts-
man in Sydney? —9o.
By taking a full-time day course in geo-
metrical and pcrspecting drawing, tracing and
lettering at Tech. College (Art. Dept), Dar-
linghurst. Or you might attend evening classes
in architectural and mechanical draughts-
manship at Central Tech. College, Ultimo,
provided you are engaged in such work dur-
ing the daytime. Syllabuses on application.
What materials are necessary for (1) 4
gallons cream paint, and (2) 1 gallon
medium dark green paint? —Bs.
(1) White lead in oil, 701 b.; raw linseed
oil, 2Jgal.; turps, jgal.; terebine driers,
-Jgal.; with sufficient Oxford ochre in oil to
produce shade required. (2) Raw linseed
oil, ggal.; terebine driers, l-16ga1.; turps,
l-16ga1.; deep Brunswick green in oil, 101 b.
(l)How to remove the odor from newly-
painted bookshelves without putting them in
the sun? (2) Method of applying a per-
fume to the wood which will permeate the
books? —116.
The odor will disappear as the paint
hardens and dries. A basin of water left
overnight in the room will help to absorb
the painty smell, but it cannot be hastened
by any treatment of the shelves; (2) Where
any interstices or hollows occur at the back
of narrow books as they stand in the shelves,
place small muslin bags containing dried
lavender flowers. The perfume may be re-
newed occasionally by a few drops of oil of
lavender sprinkled on the bags.
What Australian States have abolished
capital punishment ? —205.
Only Queensland —in 1922.
My little girls, aged 7 and 5, live 11 mile
from school, and it is too far. (1) Can they
get instruction by correspondence from the
N.S.W. Education Dept.? (2) If not from
the dept., from any private school? —9798.
(1) No; only children in the 7-15 agO'
group who live not less than three miles
from the nearest school are eligible. (2)
Don’t think so; they are too young.
(1) Would it be dangerous for a man of
74 to undertake the voyage to Europe via
Suez? (2) Best time for him to leave? (3)
If travelling by saloon, would it be compul-
sory to dress for dinner? —B2.
(11 Not if he is in reasonably good health,
but it would be wise to consult his doctor if
he has any doubt. (2) December to March.
(3) It is not compulsory in either first or
second saloon, although most first passengers
do it.
(1) How is fibre manufactured from wood?
(2) Where could I find out about tests car-
ried out in Vic.? —l72.
(1) By mechanical and chemical pro-
cesses. In the first, by grinding the wood
on grindstones (this fibre is largely used in
the manufacture of paper) ; in the second
by boiling the wood chips in alkaline solu-
tions. There are three chief chemical pro-
cesses, classified according to the chemicals
used—(a) soda, (b) sulphite, (c) sulphate.
(2) Council for Scientific and Industrial
Research, Albert-street, East Melb.
When the 'Newcastle Steel Works Band
won the competition at the Empire Exhibi-
tion, did any Guards band compete? —ll7.
No. The competition was confined to brass
bands; the Guards bands include wood wind
instruments.
(1) The best way to ripen bananas? (2)
What temperatures are necessary? (3) I
leant to obtain up to 50 crates per week
direct from Queensland. Names of dealers?
(4) Freight by passenger and goods train
from Brisbane to Broken Hill? —61.
(1 and 2) Gas is generally used; experi-
ments are being made with electricity, but
nothing final has yet been arrived at. Tem-
peratures for gas heat usually range from 66
to 75 degrees. (3) Committee of Direction
of Fruit Marketing, Turbot-street; Hall and
Pascoe, Roma-street; J. W. Thwaites, Tur-
bot-street ; V. C. Bloomfield, Ann-street; T.
Chester, Turbot-street; G. Chester, Roma-
street —all Brisbane. (4) Brisbane to Wal-
langarra, 325. 3d. per ton; approximately 33
cases to the ton. Charges at Wallangarra:
Terminal, 7d. per ton; transhipment, 2s. 3d.
per ton; carting, lOd. per ton ; inspection
fees, Id. per case. Charges from Wallan-
garra to Broken Hill would be 2s. 9d. per
case.
(1) Salaries of Gov.-Gen. and State Govs,
for year ending June 30, 1927 ? (2) Cost of
Royal Commissions; and (3) Parliamentary
government for same period?— 9B77.
(1) Gov.-Gen., £10,000; N.S.W., £5000;
Vic., £5000; Q’land, £1754; S.A., £5000;
W.A., £4000; Tas.. £2750. (2) C’wealth,
£11,507 ; N.S.W.. £3660; Vic., £132; Q’land,
£934; S.A., £13.930; W.A., £405; Tas., £557.
(3) C’wealth £530.414; N.S.W.. £248,744;
Vic.. £148.816; Q’land. £109,887; S.A.,
£106,703; W.A., £115,383; Tas., £37,258;
total, £1,297.205.
(1) A childless married woman dies intes-
tate in Victoria leaving property worth less
than £500; can her husband claim allf (2)
What is the husband’s share should there be
children? (3) Is the law the same in all the
States? —138.
(1) No ; where value of the estate does not
exceed £lOOO, half to husband and half among
next of kin. (2) One-third to husband; two-
thirds among children. (3) Not in all re-
pects, but generally so.
(1) Is one permitted to keep an Alsatian
dog in Queensland? (2 ) If so, where could I
get a pup? —55.
(1) Yes; the Federal Government has
been asked to consider prohibition of the
importation of these dogs, but (the neces-
sary Royal Commission not having been
appointed) nothing has been done. (2)
Advertise.
(1) Holder of a Vic. first-class primary
teacher’s certificate desires a transfer to
N.S.W. What equivalent qualification would
be granted by the N.S.W. department? (2)
What salary would such a teacher get in
N.S.W.? (3) In Vic vacancies arc adver-
tised in the Education Gazette, and a
classified teacher desiring a move must apply,
decisions being based on seniority. Does a
similar system hold in N.S.W.? —9984.
(1) llis certificate would not be equivalent
to any classification in N.S.W., but would
probably exempt from some third-class sub-
jects. (2) As assistant, £228 17s. 4d.; as
teaclier-in-chargc, £2BO 17s. 4d.; salaries as
unclassified man until the necessary exami-
nation for classification should be completed.
(3) Vacancies are not advertised but are
filled on seniority.
(1) Has the U.S.A. at any time repudi-
ated its debt or debts to Great Britain? (2)
What was the Alabama and what amount
(if any) did Britain pay? —992B.
(1) If by “U.S.A.” you mean the Union,
no. But after the panic of 1837 “many of the
States,” as the “Encyclopaedia Britannica”
puts it, “repudiated their obligation’,’ to
British creditors, and “repudiation was fnade
successful by the fact that a State could not
be sued by its creditors except by its own
consent.” (2) A Confederate commerce-
raider built in England during the Civil
War and negligently allowed to go to sea.
She did immense damage to the American
merchant marine, and an arbitration tri-
bunal awarded the U.S.A. compensation
amounting to 15,508,888 dollars, which
Britain paid.
Touching an application for the maternity
bonus, lias the doctor the right to refuse to
sign a certificate of attendance because he
has not received his fee?—- 168.
Yes.
Must duty be paid on a motor-cycle owned
by a passenger coming from Maoriland? —
176.
Not if it belongs to a bona fide settler who
intends to reside in Australia permanently,
or if the passenger has had it abroad for at
least one year.
(1) How much did the N.S.W. Govern-
ment spend on hospitals and charitable relief
during the last year for which figures are
available? (2) What publication gives par-
ticulars of amounts raised by public sub-
scription for charitable institutions in
N.5.W.?— 174.
For the year ended June 30, 1927: Gen-
eral hospitals and charitable institutions,
£711,801; mental hospitals, £639,342 ; child
welfare, £520,591; Gov’t, asylums for the
infirm, £175,809; destitute persons, medical
services, relief, charitable societies, etc.,
£139,966; aborigines’ protection, £27,788;
subvention to friendly societies, £59,080;
widows’ pensions, £553,706; miscellaneous,
£3754. (2) Part 3 (“Social Conditmn”),
“Official Year Book”; from Gov’t. Printer,
(9d.).
(1) N.S.W. State award wages for drovers?
(2) Itow to go about getting a job? —34.
(1) Provided work lasts more than a
week, £4 6s. p.w. and keep ; but the award
covers only A.W.U. members and employers
not parties to the Federal station-hands’
award. (2) Apply direct to stations employ-
ing drovers, or (not a very promising alter-
native) register at Labor Exchange, 132
George-street, Sydney.
Customs duties on imported new and
second-hand books and music? —9979.
Reading-books and music from all coun-
tries come in free.
I teas unwise enough to put my most valu-
able book in a new bookcase the shelves of
which were newly oiled. Oil has seeped on
the edge of some of the pages. How can I
remove it?— 74.
Complete removal is practically impos-
sible. as those processes to which oil is
sensitive would damage the paper. Partial
removal may he effected by placing the edge
of each leaf between two layers of thick,
clean white blotting-paper and applying a
warm iron, doing a leaf at a time.
Information Supplied.
9813. —To temper a small spiral spring,
heat to a bright red in a clean coke or char-
coal fire, remove with red-hot tongs and drop
it into thin mineral oil. After quenching,
slip the spring on a piece of thin, stiff wire
with a bent-up end and hold it about an inch
above the glowing coals. By rotating the
hand cause the spring to spin round on the wire
so as to heat it uniformly ; the instant the
oil takes fire plunge into tepid water. To
temper drills for glass, use a drill with a
short shank, grind to a “diamond” point,
heat to a bright red and quench out the
point in tepid water. Remove from water,
hold horizontal and place a single drop of
water on the point. As soon as this drop
begins to boil place the tip back in the water
and slowly lower in the rest. This applies
to carbon steel only. A drill of high-speed
steel can be hardened for glass by heating
the point until at a brilliant white heat
and then holding in an air blast till cold.
—“Bert the Carpenter.”
9671. —“Mulwaree,” according to C.
McAlister (“Old Pioneering Days”), means
“Long Water.” —“Mirridong.”
Does Anybody Know?
H*ow to thatch roof and sides of building
with bulrushes so as to make it waterproof?
—l5O.
Recipe for stovemaker’s putty or cement?
—l6O.
Brief Answers.
(1) Yes. (2) Yes. You will prob-
ably lose your money, but if you do win it will be a
big win. (3) Yes....lta: Don’t. .. .Radium: (1), (2)
and (3) : In the north-east; off and on for nearly
25 years, without any financial success. (4) Not
at all likely to depreciate. (5) Not if safety is
important.... Brooklyn: Don’t know; expect a
general weakening in that market. Better play
for safety... .G.C.: Can’t assist; the use of birdlime
is prohibited in N.S.W R.E.M.: “Australian
Squab Culture,” by Darge; or “Pigeons for Profit,”
by Bretton... .R.M.8.: Electric Wire won the Anni-
versary Handicap at Randwick, January, 1912....
A.C.A.D.; Statue was the work of an ancient
Greek, whose name has perished; the arms
had been broken off and lost before it was un-
earthed in 1820... .G.W.F.: Write Robert or Frank
Gillies, 14 Martin-place, Sydney; each is sec. of a
society.. . .E.C.: In expert opinion the course
alone would not be sufficient to enable you to get
a ground engineer’s license, which is necessary for
a good position. Write Controller of Civil Aviation,
Melbourne, for particulars... .W.M.L.: Practically
no chance of getting a job with a commercial avia-
tion co. at present unless you are a pilot, a skilled
mechanic or a woodworker. Few apprentices are
taken, and waiting lists are 10ng... .H.W.: Dye-
ing and bleaching of furred skins is a process beyond
the amateur, generally speaking. The trade is a
highly technical one, and its processes never become
common knowledge... .J.D.: That way of delivery
of the service is correct... .T.W.D.: Pronounce it
“she”... .Marcus: Service Dept, does not criticise
literary contributions; see Answers to Correspon-
dents. .. .Puzzled: Draw up an inventory and attach
to it a statutory declaration—you can buy a form
for 2d. In the body of the form insert the state-
ment that the declarant “has no right, title or
interest of any kind in all or any of the articles
named in the inventory attached hereto, they being
the joint property of my daughters [name them],
and by them purchased out of their own moneys.”
Then let the mother sign it, and at the same time
sign the inventory under the words, “This is the
inventory referred to by me in the statutory declara-
tion attached hereto.” That ought to suffice....
L.M.A.: The term bitumen includes a considerable
number of inflammable mineral substances, consisting
mainly of hydrocarbons of various consistencies;
the specific heat would vary according to the variety.
.... T.W.: Get in touch with district Pastures Pro-
tection 80ard...-D.M.: Yes; Keep, Macpherson, 252
George-street, Sydney... .W.P.K.: Curtis Brown, 6
Henrietta-street, W.C.2 ; John Farquharson, 8 Halsey
House, Red Lion-square, W.C.I; and Pinker and
Sons, Talbot House, 9 Arundel-street, W.C.2 —all
London. . . .8.F.H.: “How to Train a Racehorse,” by
Muggridge; Brooks and Co., 7 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney.... M.R.: (1) No. (2) and (3) Apply
N.S.W. Bookstall Co., 112 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
. ...J.A.B. :• Take violin to W. E. Dolphin, 363
Bourke-street, Melbourne. .. .0.E.: Koort Koortnong,
“land crabs” ; Bullenmerri, “brackish lake” ; Gnotuk,
“salt lake, brackish spring on east side” G.S.:
Write Yates and Co., 184 Sussex-street, Sydney
F.P.: For information as to forming a dramatic
society, read Dean’s “Little Theatre Organisation”
and Shay’s “Practical Theatre”—both can be bor-
rowed from Sydney Municipal Library... .M.J.: (1)
Yes, if you can produce the goods and get the
market. (2) Personal tuition is best, but it can
be learned by correspondence. (3) Liberty Con-
fectionery College, 90 Pitt-street, Sydney... .A.E.L.:
Brooks and Co., 44 Pitt-street; John Sands, 374
George-street—both Sydney.... H.L.: Question too
vague ; send particulars Old-age and Invalid Pensions
Office, Repat. Buildings, Chalmers-street, Sydney
E.C.: Sir Richard Cruise is surgeon oculist to the
King; not aware of the fees he charges private
patients. Dr. Hawthorn, a front-rank Harley-street
oculist, charged an Australian 2| guineas for a
first consultation and 1 j guineas for subsequent
ones... .R.J.: Try an advt. in Papuan Courier,
Port Moresby, Papua... .J.D. J.: (1) Not unless
paternity has been established. (2) Mother could
appeal to Quarter Sessions by giving notice
within 21 days from date of magistrate’s order.
R.H.D.: Lightning Ridge and Grawin (N.S.W.)
are practically the only fields where black opal is
produced; good demand in U.S.A E.N.G.: March
to May would be a good time to visit Brazil,
Argentina and Chile. It is hot during Nov. and
Dec., though the highlands provide a means of
escape from coastal heat... .D.D.: Maoriland Govs.:
Lord Plunket, June, 1904, to June, 1910; Lord
Islington, June, 1910 to Dec., 1912 ; Earl Liverpool,
Dec., 1912, to July, 1920 ; Viscount Jellicoe, Sept.,
1920, to Nov., 1924; Sir Charles Fergusson, from
Dec., 1924 J.S.C.: An old-age pensioner, bachelor
or widower, receiving full pension of £1 per week
may earn an extra 12s. 6d. p.w.; if his wife is a
pensioner and has no other source of income he
may earn 255. p.w. Can’t decide without par-
ticulars ; write Dept., Repat. Building, Chalmers-
street, Sydney... .W. A.: (1) Plaster of Paris; it
must be rubbed in wet, and surplus wiped off
before it sets. (2) Paste made of shredded dark
beeswax and turpentine, wax being dissolved in
turps, by gentle heat or letting it stand a day or
so. A little ammonia may be added to make it
smooth and raw linseed oil be rubbed in before
polishing. Success depends on careful work and
sufficient rubbing A.S.K.: Kershaw and Son, 91
Wellfield-road, Streatham, 5.W.16; Pollard and Sons,
Si. Mildred’s-road, Lee, 5.E.12; Spriggs and Son,
38 Station-parade, Cricklewood —all London. Hen-
derson and Co. Inc., 37 Cortland-street; Nungesser-
Dickinson Seed Co., 30 Church-street—both New
York A.C.P.: In Scotch law if an illegitimate
dies intestate without wife or child, his effects go
to the King, but a grant of them is usually made
by Letters Patent and the grantee becomes entitled
to the administration. It is assumed that by “rela-
tions” you mean “next of kin,” and by “estate”
personality. With regard to realty, the King is the
ultimate heir R.0.M.: “Loud,” from the Latin
“clutus” ; it can be used as an adverb H.M.C.:
Their Sydney office is at 25 O’Connell-street....
J.H.: The German “ch” in “ich” is not difficult to
acquire. You have only to exaggerate somewhat the
initial sound in English words like “hue” to do it.
.F.M.W.: Anything you can induce your friends
to give you, such as discarded clothing, cooking
utensils, crockery, pictures, books, cushions and
pot plants R.H.R.: The Farm-workers’ award
would apply to some of the work done by you;
copy from Govt. Printer, 7Jd. Irregularities may be
reported to the industrial inspector at Townsville.
H.J.C.: (1) Any tenant who fraudulently or
clandestinely conveys away from the rented premises
his goods and chattels to prevent his landlord dis-
training for rent may be ordered to pay double
the value of goods removed. (2) You may pro-
ceed in the Small Debts Court for amount of rent
j ue Peter A.: It is a proprietary co., not listed
on ’Change. Prospects are said to be good ; but we
cannot check the statement L.C.N.: (1) and (3)
A racehorse is “aged” at seven years. (2) N 0....
(Many others mailed.)


è
For Any Travel
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
é
The accredited Agents of all Steam
Ship Lines. Their expert guidance and
special facilities cost you nothing.
TO EUROPE 1930
Apply now for accommodation, as
berthing plans for all steamers are open.
WINTER TOURS
To Queensland, Bali, Java, Siam,
Japan, Hawaii, Malaya, Sumatra, Indo-
China (Saigon, Pnom-Penh, Angkor).
STEAMER EXCURSIONS
Cairns, South Sea Islands, Fiji, Tahiti,
Honolulu, Ceylon, Java, Japan and
Manila, etc.
COOKS’ TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES
Are the safest and most convenient
means of carrying funds.
Sailing Lists , Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street,
ADELAIDE:
49 Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Flace.
ê
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).
"CcfcihmJ^ovTiuf
<micC J(ot SiafAd /
Winter comfort demands more than the provision of heat in the living
rooms only.
Warm bedrooms, bathrooms, lounges and business rooms are also
necessary during the bleak months. Hot water at all times is also a daily
necessity
r
IDEAL CLASSIC
WARMING
Provides warm rooms
and hot baths at little
more cost for fuel than
an ordinary kitchen
range.
ALL FROM
ONE FIRE
Cheaper than open fires, gas
or electricity. The only
system for Hotels, Clubs,
Country Homes, Boarding
Houses, Flats, Golf and
Tennis Clubs, etc.
324-330
PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Write for particulars and free booklet.
JOHN DANKS &SON PTY. LTD
391-403
BOURKE ST.,
MELBOURNE.
A HOLIDAY
that will Ever Linger
in Your Memory
*v*
1
m
tx- _
mini]
Make your plans now to avoid the
cold and damp of the approaching
winter months. Leave for a delight-
ful stay in Hawaii’s lovely holiday
land, and revel in its glorious tropi-
cal sunshine.
From the moment of your arrival in
Honolulu, when you are greeted
with the welcoming "Aloha” of its
residents, and encircled, as is their
charming custom, with the beauti-
fully-scented and highly decorative
leis, symbolical of the "endless chain
of friendship,” you are transported
into an atmosphere so different, so
enchanting, as to fill one with con-
stant delight—an experience which
will ever linger in your memory.
INCLUSIVE HOLIDAY
TOURS.
Matson-Oceanic Inclusive Tours
to Honolulu, occupying 33 days,
£B5 first class, £65 second class;
54 days, £l4l/10/- first class,
£l2l/10/- second class, including
all transport, hotel accommodation
and side trips, as per programme.
Steamer Fares only: Excursion £75 first class return, £55 second class return,
issued all the year round, available for 3 months.
Write or call for folder, "A Holiday in Hawaii,” giving detailed particulars.
S.S. SIERRA S.S. SONOMA S.S. VENTURA
SAILING EVERY THIRD SATURDAY.
©ailili STEAMSHIP <C® S
Matson Link
12 Bridge Street, Sydney
Local Agents: Mcllwraith McEacharn Ltd., 94-96 William St., Melbourne; 117-119 King
William St., Adelaide; Fremantle, Perth, Albany; Howard Smith Ltd., Brisbane, Townsville
£-29


WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most-up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydneyl
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
PAY AS YOU GO BY CHEQUE
1. It eliminates unwise spending.
2. It saves time and many steps in settling bills.
3. It gives prestige to your transactions.
4. It instils respect through your association with a reputable bank.
At this Bank you are allowed Interest on your
minimum quarterly balance.
manjproii urers £)ank^ ctJH usfralia %
HEAD OFFICE. 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at London
THE
Farmers 8 Settlers
Co-operative Insurance
Co. of Australia, Ltd.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL,
£250,000
Fire, Accident, Marine, Motor-car,
Workers’ Compensation, Growing
Crops, Stacks, Wool, Fencing.
SPECIALISING IN INSURANCE
FOR THE MAN ON THE LAND
ACTIVE AGENTS REQUIRED
WHERE NOT REPRESENTED
N.S.W. Office:
Wingelo House, Angel Place, Sydnev
F. D. POWELL, Manager. X
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CRPARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
PRIZES FOR FARM HINTS.
Thousands of men fail on the land be-
cause they don’t know how to succeed;
many thousands more succeed less than
they should because they lack proper
guidance.
"The Bulletin” wants to encourage
farmers and scientists who know to help
those who don’t know.
With that object it offers two prizes of
£2O and £lO for the most useful contri-
butions to the “Land” pages during the
six months ending June 30 next.
AH contributions submitted, whether
published or not, will be considered in
awarding points, and the prizes will go
to the winners of most points.
Points will be awarded for interest and
practical usefulness.
The prizes are additional to the usual
payment for published contributions.
♦
ANALYSES OF SUPERPHOSPHATE.
“Yeoman”; Superphosphate is sold Tinder
different descriptions in the various States.
For example, the super, generally used in
Y'ic. is described as “22 p.c.” In S.A. the
first-grade is sold under the description of
“45 p.c. W.S.P.” (water soluble phosphate
of lime). Many S.A. farmers, for this rea-
son, imagine they are purchasing a super,
containing twice as much phosphate as is
contained in the Vic. article. Both sorts are
identical in strength, the only difference
being in the formula used to express the
contents. The analysis of the standard
“22 p.c.” super, discloses:—
Phosphoric Acid —
■ Water soluble . . .. .. . . 20.50 p.c.
Citrate soluble .. .. . . 0.50 p.c.
Citrate insoluble .. .. .. 1.0 p.c.
Total . . .. . . 22.00 p.c.
In S.A. the Fertiliser Act requires only
the percentage of water soluble phosphate to
be ' stated. Now 3101 b. of “phosphate” is
equal in phosphoric acid to 1421 b. of phos-
phoric acid. Therefore, the percentage of
water soluble phosphoric acid in a super,
containing 45 p.c. water soluble phosphate
is calculated by multiplying 45 by 142, and
dividing by 310, which gives 20.61 as the
percentage of water soluble phosphoric acid.
Another way is to divide the phosphate con-
tent by 2.18, which gives practically the same
result.
Farmers in Vic. may ascertain the value
of their super, on the basis of a list of unit
values fixed every year by the Department
of Agriculture. For 1929 the unit values
are;—
Phosphoric Acid—• s. d.
As water soluble, per unit . . .. 4 10
As citrate soluble, per unit . . . . 5 0
As citrate insoluble, per unit . . .. 2 9
The unit value of a ton of standard “22
p.c.” super, on that basis is:—
Water soluble phosphoric acid, 20.50
units at 4s. lOd. .. .. .. A 4 19 1
Citrate soluble phosphoric acid, 0.50
units at ss. . . . . . . 2 6
Citrate insoluble, phosphoric acid, 1.00
units at 2s. 9d. . . .. .. 2 9
£5 4 4
On the basis current prices charged for
super, appear reasonable.
SUPER. AND ACIDITY.
“E. 11.5.”: Many farmers have a deeply-
rooted objection to the use of super, as a
fertiliser, on the ground that it increases the
acid content of the soil; but recent experi-
ments carried out by Prof. Kappen, of Bonn,
show that repeated applications of super,
are beneficial rather than injurious. Prof.
Kappen is stated to have definitely proved
that superphosphate, in spite of its chemical-
acid reaction, neither acidifies the soil nor
has an acidifying effect through the action of
the plants, and he comes to the conclusion that
super, on acid soil may have a neutralising
effect, and even be able to counteract the
acidifying influence of sulphate of ammonia.
Prof. Lenglen, of Paris, is another investi-
gator who has demonstrated the fallacy of
the theory that super, contains a surplus of
free sulphuric acid, which causes acidity in
the soils treated witlr it. His analysis of
numerous samples taken from different fac-
tories showed that correctly manufactured
super, does not contain free sulphuric acid.
The same analysis showed a content of
1 to 5 per cent, free phosphoric acid.
MORE ABOUT LIME.
“J.C.”: In quoting results obtained by the
use of agricultural lime as a dressing for
pastures, the position would be clearer if
those in favor of its use would give data as
to the results with the calcium carbonate
alone, without clouding the issue by dragging
in super. The results quoted by “R.D.A.”
(B. 24/4/’29) appear to be due, not to the
agricultural lime directly, but merely to the
action of the lime on the superphosphate,
converting it into the original tricalcium
phosphate, and thereby causing better reten-
tion in the soil, due to the lessened solubility
of the tricalcium phosphate so produced.
The results quoted by “R.D.A.” could
have been brought about more cheaply by
the use of ground rock phosphate, as it is
evidently tin; class of land which responds
better to neutral phosphate than it does to
super. In any case, commercial phosphates
have a calcium base which the agriculturist
obtains for nothing, the values of phosphates
being calculated on their phosphorus con-
tents. The calcium is rightly considered to
be valueless as an application to almost all
classes of land.
Let us leave the results of the application
of agricultural lime alone, excluding sour
lands (where it neutralises the acidity which,
strictly considered, is not a fertilising action
at all) without dragging in super., and the
benefits to be derived by applying calcium
carbonate to over 90 per cent, of all lands
will be seen to be illusory. Soils that lack
sufficient calcium to grow good crops are
extremely rare.
LIMITATIONS OF SOIL ANALYSIS.
“Chemico” : About a year ago, summaris-
ing the experience of chemists' in all parts of
the world who have had the opportunity of
checking up the value of their soil analyses
by subsequent field experiments, I gave. on
this page a mild warning against implicit
reliance on such analyses. My contention
was that local experience, which takes into
account a hundred and one factors that
chemical analysis can’t deal with, is a more
reliable guide. I was overwhelmed with re-
proaches from (I suspect) laboratory opera-
tors, who quoted so many awe-inspiring
authorities that I was almost convinced I
was wrong, though I know something of
farming and something of chemical analysis
and its limitations. But the N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture comes to my aid by
quoting approvingly in its Gazette the
opinion of Dr. R. W. Ruprecht, chemist of
the Florida (U.S.A.) experimental station,
who is quite a big-gun among agricultural
chemists. He says :
A chemical analysis of soil simply shows the total
plant food contained in the soil. It does not state
how much of this plant food is available for the
use of the plant. Since this is what the farmers
really want to know, a more practicable method
of getting this information is to get the County
Agent to look over the field. Since the agent is
better acquainted with local conditions, he will
be in a better position to advise as to the crops
suited and the fertilisers needed.
The Gazette adds:—
If we insert the words “Agricultural Instructor”
in place of “County Agent” ' (for the County
Agent in U.S.A. occupies a somewhat similar position
to the Agricultural Instructor in this State) the
paragraph very well expresses the attitude of the
New South Wales Department towards soil analysis.
THE DIESEL ON THE FARM.
“Chev.”: From the national Australian
viewpoint the outstanding item in the Mel-
bourne motor show was the six-wheeled Mer-
cedes-Benz truck. This leviathan is 36ft.
long and is the only one of its kind yet
to reach this country. It is a 70-h.p. six-
cylinder job fitted with a Diesel engine.
For years the Germans have been experi-
menting to produce a Diesel low enough in
weight and high enough in power for road
transport use, and here they appear to have
succeeded. The Diesel dispenses with spark-
plugs, the oil being fired by the heat gen-
erated in compression.
All who have the development of Australia
at heart will be interested in what a truck
similarly equipped, but of slightly smaller
capacity, has already done in Vie. The
Development and Migration Commission
tested one on April 23. The truck carried
a five-ton load from Melbourne to Castle-
maine and back over some pretty hefty
grades at a fuel cost of ss. Ifd. for the
150 miles. The cost of conveying the same
load over the same distance in a truck driven
by petrol' would be approximately 555. The
Commission reckons that trucks on the
Diesel principle will enormously cheapen
road transport.
The makers of the Mercedes-Benz truck
claimed that it would give good service if fed
with the used oil out of engine sumps—and
so it did. For one week the post-office
authorities handed over their discarded oil,
and the truck used it for fuel. During one
day a postal inspector was in charge, and
he reported that the vehicle did just as well
on this offal as it had done on crude oil.
Crude oil cos**s 4fd. a gallon in Australia,
and used sump oil is generally thrown away.
A pretty convincing proof of the Diesel’s
value to agriculture was recently supplied
at Kooweerup swamp. Two farmers agreed
to plough one and one-third acres of virgin
soil covered with ti-tree, one using a tractor-
plough burning kerosene and the other a
Diesel single-cylinder fuelled with crude
oil. The sceptic did his job with 7gals. of
kero, at Is. 3d. a gal.; the other used up
2Jgals. of crude oil at 6d. a gallon. The
Diesel did its job in 2 hours and 53 minutes.
Another test was carried out at Sunshine
for H. V. McKay, and had similar results.
This is important to Australia. The huge
deposits of brown coal in Vic. could provide
a large proportion of the crude oil required
from the waste products now dissipated in
the production of electrical power alone.
One of the chief by-products is tar. It 'has
hitherto been used extensively for roads, but
owing to climatic conditions bitumen is sup-
planting it; so that the tar producers are
becoming seriously concerned as to how to
dispose of the stuff. An oil that a Diesel
engine won’t cough over can be extracted
from the tar at a cost of approximately six-
pence a gallon. The crude oil used in the
above-mentioned tests was obtained from
the Commonwealth Refineries at Laverton,
and is a residue from petrol extraction.
FAT LAMBS FOR EXPORT.
T. Crawford, Mayfield, Orange (N.S.W.)
writes-
I don’t agree with those contributors who
consider the Southdown ram to be the most
suitable ram for fat-lamb breeding. At the
last Royal Show at Sydney the prize-winners
in two export lamb carcase classes were by
Southdown rams out of crossbred ewes. The
lambs aged 21 weeks were valued at 255.
including 6s. skin value. I had two exhibits
of 14-weeks-old lambs by Suffolk rams out
of crossbred ewes, but they were outclassed,
as they were over export weights, averaging
431 b. and 491 b. respectively. Those weigh-
ing 491 b. were of the highest commercial
value of all the exhibits, 28s. 7|d., including
6s. skin value. Had these lambs been slaugh-
tered earlier they would have been within the
limits of export weights. The growth of the
Suffolk lambs is considerably ahead of that of
the Southdowns. That the quality of the
carcases was appreciated by the butchers may
be judged from the fact that the average
price for my two pens received from the
M.M.I. Board was 335. 9d.
The. Werribee (Vic.) Research Farm re-
ported in the Agricultural Gazette that
experiments were made extending over five
years, using eight breeds of rams, including
Dorset Horn and Southdowns, and were then
discontinued, “it being regarded as proved
that the Suffolk was the most profitable ram
to use for fat-lamb breeding.”
At Homebush I have always realised 2s.
to 3s. more for my Suffolk cross lambs than
was given for Romney cross when the ewes
were mated at the same date.
SHEEP BREEDING AND LOCALITY.
“ Jumbuck”: The greatest mistake made in
the past by lamb-breeders, and one that is
still being made, is slavish adherence to a
breed that happens to be fashionable at the
time, he it Lincoln, Border Leicester,
Romney Marsh or Southdown, irrespective
of climatic conditions and the quality of
the country on which the sheep are to be
run. There is room for all the British breeds
in Australia, but every breed doesn’t suit
every district.
To use,, black-faced rams indiscriminately
leads to the deterioration of flocks more
quickly than any other cause. Such a thing
happened some 30 years ago when Slirop-
shires were the rage. It took 20 years to get
rid of their influence in the flocks of N.S.W.
and Victoria. Black-faced rams should
only be used in localities where there is an
“odds-on” chance of getting the lambs off
as suckers, and the whole drop should go
for slaughter. There is no surer road to
the deterioration of our flocks from a wool-
producing point of view than to continue
breeding from a half-bred black-faced ewe,
and the value of a lamb from such a ewe
is less than that of his half-bred brother.
Of the long-wool breeds I favor the
Romney Marsh, as it is the only one that
can be bred in and in to almost pure Rom-
neys without deterioration. The threequarter-
bred Lincoln carries too rough a fleece to
be a profitable sheep, and the Border Leices-
ter is too light a wool cutter. Neither of
these breeds should be used beyond the
first cross. The Romney Marsh, whether
he be first-cross, threequarter-bred or
pure, will always cut a payable fleece of
nice quality wool, and if the fat-lamb market
is missed, as often happens in the drier dis-
tricts, he is out on his own as a two-tooth
wether, and the ewe stands alone as a breeder.
MIXED CROPS.
“Hortus”: As a combination of grasses
bas proved most satisfactory in laying down
a pasture for stock, so it often proves more
economical and more beneficial to combine
forage crops than to sow one of a single
variety. Both in the planting of grasses
and of crops, leguminous (pod-bearing)
plants should enter all combinations in order
to provide a- balanced-food ration, for the
protein content of the legume supplements
the carbohydrate content of the grass. For-
tunately we have at our disposal a good
quantity of leguminous plants —the various
clovers, lucerne, trefoil, field-peas, cow-peas,
vetches and beans. Suitable mixtures are
rye with vetches, oats with peas, oats with
vetches, cow-peas with maize, sorghum or
millet and maize with soy-beans (for silage
purposes). The list could be extended, but
any combination must be governed by the
climatic conditions! and the season at which
sowing is undertaken. Vetches are more
highly valued than any other legume, save
lucerne, on most mixed farms, and they are
very easily grown. Sow 301 b. of vetches
and 401 b. to 601 b. of oats or rye.
The oat-pea combination lias proved
highly satisfactory, the quantity of seed
necessary being one and a half bushels of
oats and a half to one bushel of peas to
the acre. The peas should be drilled or
broadcasted on rough land, so that they will
be covered to a fair depth., The oats should
be broadcasted and harrowed in afterwards.
When combining cow-peas with maize, a
system that has proved very profitable on
the North Coast of N.'S.W. can be recom-
mended. The cow-peas are sown down
between the rows of early corn with a maize
dropper, or broadcasted immediately after the
last cultivation of the maize, which should
not be later than January. Broadcasting is
the better method. Half a bushel of cow-
peas with 101 b. of millet or 15lb. of sorghum
to the acre is the usual quantity. By com-
bining fodder crops the chance of a whole-
sale failure is lessened, for a wet season
may suit one crop and a dry season the
other. Shallow and deep-rooting crops tap
different soil depths for their food. Some
crops, such as soy-beans, are comparatively
free from attacks of insects and diseases,
while others yield themselves very easily to
such attacks; hence a combination of two
crops may bring about a saving of damage.
Again, a leguminous crop acts as a soil
improver, and thereby increases the yield of
the supporting crop. Most important of
all, stock thrive better on mixed fodder.
TOP-DRESSING PASTURES.
“Marree”: The much discussed policy of
top-dressing natural pastures with super, is
in high favor with S.A. farmers, as some
recent official figures show. In 1924-25, when
experiments first began, 67,124 acres were
spread with 4084 tons of super. The trans-
formation effected in carrying power was
so striking that the latest figures show that
209,922 acres were top-dressed last year,
11.393 tons of super, being used. It is esti-
mated the carrying capacity of the land
treated has been increased, on an average,
threefold.
THE WOOL OUTLOOK.
“FY7”: Winchcombe Carson’s Annual
Wool Review decides that profits in wool-
growing have diminished in the Common-
wealth within the past two or three years,
and the future is not as rosy as it once
promised to be. Up to the beginning of
the current year rates were stable,
though at the opening sales last August
average prices were 10 per cent, below the
top level of the season before. The
selling year was gratifying, in that the clip
moved off freely, but the average was 2fd.
less per lb. for greasy. Difficulty had been
experienced by European topmakers in get-
ting prices for their product approaching
that paid for raw material, while the Com-
monwealth production was 8 per cent, in
excess of the previous record clip of 1926-27,
when over 2,500,000 bales were stored. A
drop under the circumstances was inevitable,
and might have been heavier but for the
extension of manufacturing in Australia,
Japan, Italy and Russia.
One outstanding feature of the season was
the heavy demand for skirtings, once regarded
as a sort of by-product in the industry.
Modern manufacturers can work these up
into attractive forms which, while they have
not the same wearing capacity as the higher-
grade fleece wools, appeal by their cheap-
ness to many people.
Of the buyers Yorkshire again had a pro-
minent influence on the market, while France
showed the effect of the stabilisation of
the franc in decreased purchasing power.
Germany also bought well, if not up to the
level of the previous year, and the outlook
in this quarter for Australian growers is
good. Japan beat all previous records, and
must now be reckoned one of the most deci-
sive buying factors in the Australian trade.
So far, Nippon uses most of the material
purchased for internal consumption. She is
(Continued on page 31.)


(
11
1
4l>
will ipDinur Skmarttannii
dll«M*e Itia^pedHwiDia?
J§
/
H
*ss
X
HR
M
m
. \ ; :v, ; .;-.
1111 l
mi
m
m
*•
ffilllllM
“ 1 find Rexona Soap,
used regularly, enhances
the beauty of the com-
plexion and makes the
hair soft and glossy.”
—Doris Henderson.
“ 1 am simply delighted
with Rexona Soap — ‘ab-
solutely lovely ’ is how 1
would describe it for the
skin and hair.”
—Mina Smith
“ Your Rexona ‘Soap
makes tke finest shampoo
for the skin and hair and
is also invaluable for
keeping the hands in per-
fect condition.”
—Marion Lightfoot.
ŕ
ŗ


Chrysler ”75” Royal Sedan,
ŕ
CHRYSLER
demand sweeps aside all
other choices
Chrysler style plus Chrysler performance and value
—these are the reasons for a world-wide demand for
the new Chrysler “75” and “65”.
For Chrysler has achieved new heights of
smooth, dependable performance and new
heights of comfort and ease of handling.
And Chrysler body design has gone far be-
yond anything else in details of grace, style
and beauty that are unmatched in other
automobiles that sell for much more.
It is not to be wondered that with cars of
such behavior and roadability, in the new style
that re-styles all motor cars, Chrysler experiences
a demand that sweeps aside all other choices.
In five years Chrysler engineering has originated or
developed these epoch-making features:
“Silver-Dome” high-compression engine, using any fuel,
Seven-bearing counterweighted crankshaft. Iso-therm
invar-strut pistons. Air cleaner and oil filter. Body and
crankshaft impulse neutralisers. Hydraulic shock absorbers.
Hydraulic four-wheel brakes. Balanced road wheels.
Indirectly lighted instrument panel. Rubber engine mountings •
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS
New South Wales ... Larke, Neave & Carter, Ltd., Sydney
Victoria Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., M elbourne
Queensland • Ward Motors, Limited, Brisbane
West Australia ...... Wm. AttWood Motors, Ltd., Perth
South Australia .... O. T. Rodda Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
Tasmania Distributors Pty., Ltd., Hobart
New Zealand Todd Motor Company, Wellington
New Guinea W. R. Carpenter & Co., Ltd., Rabaul
9 SID


<&
3
:r\
Built for
Winter's Worst Weather
A double thickness of the
toughest leather soles this
rugged Abbey Boot. And its
upper is snugly lined through-
out with soft leather. That
ensures perfect all-weather
protection.... guarantees com-
fort over the roughest going.
As can be seen, the upper
arches in a special way over
the instep. It laces neatly and
closely without the least tight-
ness. This pliant boot allows
free play of all foot muscles.
Order by Post.
Every size is made in three fittings,
narrow, medium and wide. Specify
width as well as length when order-
ing. Ask, also, for the correct
Abbey Polish (6d. per tin).
TAN WILLOW CALF, 47/6
BLACK BOX CALF, 45/-
Enlarged catalogue of men’s, women’s and
children’s footwear post free.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years,
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
FPL 125
SYDNEY.
X
You can Wipe the Mort-
gage Off your House.
Possess Insurance, and effect a
saving in cost. Particulars of this
sound business investment from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY.
GUYATT’S
SAFETY TRUSS
e
FOR
COMFORT
DURABILITY STRENGTH
WE stock and make to order, trusses
for all occupations. Light, comfort-
able, washable, and easily adjust-
able, showing considerable advantage over
all other makes. Single Truss as illustrated,
30/-; double 40/-.
Write or call for free Truss Pamphlet.
GUY ATT & CO.
Dept. *»• 257 a George Street, Sydney.
CHOOSE
with care
The soap you use
for your skin
must have
definite qualifi-
cations for the
results you wish
to attain.
Cuticura
Soap
Has been the choice of mil-
: lions for 50 years for its de-
I lightfully medicated, sanative
and prophylactic efficiency
in cleansing, purifying and
' beautifying the Skin and.
Hair.
■ Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sold everywhere. Sample eachfree. Address:
E. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
UPRT* Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
No disease has caused more loss in sheep than Fluke,
yet for less than one-fifth of a penny per sheep this
can now be cured by the application of Carbon
Tetrachloride. This process has been tested by the
Agricultural Departments of various States in Aus-
tralia, and has received their endorsement. It
requires preparation and additions before it can be
applied to the sheep, and these are skilfully carried
out in
SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
1 pint tins .. . 4/6 5/- each
1 quart tins . . 6/6 7/- each
POST FREE ON FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins . . 13/6 16/- each
DELIVERED NEAREST RAILWAY STATION
ON FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY., LTD
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
C „«»
KANGAROO”
RINGLOCK
FENCING
The lock that will not shift
The Strongest Fencing
on the Marketl
“KANGAROO” RINGLOCK FENC-
ING is a wonderful improvement on
the ordinary five- or six-line wire
fence, as it is a combination of drop-
pers and laterals. All the wires are
crimped, and the special Ringlock
knot (illustrated above) is formed
around the crosswires, thus making
them absolutely non-slippable. The
fence is, therefore, sheep- and cattle-
proof.
“KANGAROO” RINGLOCK FENC-
ING is heavy 10-gauge galvanised
wire throughout. All the wire has
been specially selected for quality,
strength and heavy galvanising, thus
providing material of extraordinary
resistance to weather, stock, etc.
Manufactured by
D. gW. CHANDLER LTD.
INTER-STATE AGENTS:
TASMANIA:
W. Hart & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
Charles Street, Launceston.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
South Australian Farmers" Co-op.
Union, Ltd.,
36 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND:
Queensland Pastoral Supplies, Ltd.,
Bowen Street, Brisbane.
ř
.ever likely to be a great wool-producer, but
her future as an exporter of manufactured
woollens is a promising one, and most of
the wool must come from this country, Kus-
sia has also expanded considerably, and is
now beginning to scour wool which was
once treated in N.S.W., a distinct loss to
one branch of the industry. Italy is another
on the upgrade as a buyer, while Australian
mills also play a part in consumption which
is not so important as it might be made.
Still, that they are doing something the
comparison of woollen importations from
Britain to the Commonwealth shows. In
1913, just before the war, 22,125,000 yards
of worsteds and woollens came in. The
figure had dropped to 8,670,100 by last year,
and the decline in worsted yarn importations
is almost as marked. . .
Conditions may “necessitate some revision
of wages, freights and taxes with which the
industry is burdened.’ - South Africa is in-
creasing her output yearly. America is now
growing close to her own requirements.
‘‘Australia is not quite the dominating force
in supplies she was some time ago” is the
final conclusion.
THE CARE OF WATER-COURSES.
“Boronia”: Many farmers are beginning
to realise that the creeks running through
their properties are not what they should
be, and that they are paying dearly for
mistakes or neglect/ chiefly due to ignorance
of a few simple laws of nature. In the
past it has been the practice to ringbark
every stick of timber on both sides of the
creek. In the course of a few years the
water becomes dirty and contaminated by
decaying timber. The tree-roots become rotted,
their binding influence is destroyed, the
banks of the creek become scoured and much
valuable earth is washed miles away. In
cases the creek becomes half-filled and con-
sequently boggy, a condition which does not
permit it to function as a soil-drainer.
But worse follows. All the salts and
magnesia unabsorbed owing to the destruc-
tion of the timber on the clearings further
back find their way into the creek, and turn
the water brackish or salty, with the result
that it may become unfit for stock.
The country for two chains or more on
each side of a water-course should be left
in a virgin state. If this is done, scouring
and contamination are obviated, and much
of the salts and magnesia arrested and
absorbed by the growing trees. In addition,
the green belt provides stock with shelter
and warmth during winter and cool shade
during the hot summer months. I know of
dozens of cases where splendid springs pro-
viding beautifully fresh water have turned
salty because of the slaughter of native trees
all about them. In numerous cases they
are being reclaimed by the simple but pain-
fully slow method of allowing some of the
native timber to grow up again.
DUAL PURPOSE CATTLE.
“L’Fou”: Some points have been over-
looked by those who have been advocating
dual purpose cattle for dairying. The mar-
gin of profit above cost of keep must be
considered. Jersey breeds are valued, not
only as large producers, but also as the most
economical producers. This is important in
intensive dairying, particularly if purchased
fodder or concentrates are partly depended
on—and dairymen tend more and more to
depend on them. If plenty of first-class
pasture is available and feeding costs need
not be so closely watched, then milking
shorthorns and such breeds are all right.
There are individual heavy milkers of any
breed—or none —but these usually tend to
approach the fine-boned dairy type.
The majority of dairy-farmers have not
reserves of grazing to keep young stock be-
yond a few picked heifers for replacements.
Their young stuff is usually sold under one
year, as poddies. An average price for these,
even if of beef breeds, is 30s. Taking butter-
fat at the low average of Is. 6d. per lb.,
and allowing even the small difference of 201 b.
or 301 b. per annum between a good-class
dairy-cow and a dual purpose one nearly as
good, that poddy represents no profit to the
dairyman. In the milk trade the difference
would probably be greater. The greater
amount of raw material .needed by the
heavy-weight cow of beef breed would mean
a loss.
ABERDEEN-ANGUS CATTLE.
'* “Spike”: Running on open country the
Aberdeen-Angus is undoubtedly a reasonable
proposition, but on timbered mountainous
country, such as the N.S.W. coastal or near-
coastal belt, where cattle-breeding still flour-
ishes, the black poley falls a long way short
of requirements. For hardiness he is not
to be compared with the small, compact
Devon. He is not of a rugged type, and
makes a bad working bullock, as lie is as
'ft - HQ pIIPP^JP
“W.P.D.” (B. 24/4/’29) advocated the
more extensive breeding of this class of
cattle in Queensland, and stressed the fact
that as the A.-A. cattle are hornless, the
risk of railroad injury is minimised. Of
course he’s right, but if Queensland cattle-
men must have poleys the process of de-
horning can be carried out at branding in
a few seconds. As far as the N.S.W. breeder
is concerned, the fact that the Aberdeen-
Angus is hornless is its chief shortcoming.
Horned cattle will keep alive and even do
well under conditions which would prove
disastrous to the poley. When country is
destitute of feed, the horned beast will make
for the scrubs and brushes and there utilise
his horns to gather his feed in the form of
vines and creepers. In these circumstances
the poley is naturally out of the hunt.
UNPLEASANT FLAVORS IN BUTTER.
“E.H.S.” : The best food for milking cows
is natural grass, as it contains all the con-
stituents required to form milk, flesh and
bone, but if the animals are allowed to range
freely on rich, lush pasture they are apt to
get thoroughly gorged. When this happens,
as it frequently does, derangement of the
digestive apparatus takes place, and the re-
sulting fermentation of the contents of the
stomach is one of the most common and
least-suspected causes of taint and fishy
flavor in butter. Unpleasant flavors may be
communicated to butter through foul drink-
ing water or through the animals eating
noxious weeds. A high degree of acidity in
cream is a suspected cause of fishy flavor,
and it is well known that “beastings” have
the same pernicious effect; but in my opinion
the derangement of the digestive processes by
the means indicated above is responsible for
more unpleasant flavors in butter than all
these combined.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) How are wheat-and-sheep blocks allot-
ted by the Crown in N.S.W.? (2) Would a
man with, say, £l5OO have a better chance
of getting a block than one with £500? (3)
Is land still open for selection in Lake Car-
gellico district? (4) Where can I get infor-
mation as to tenures, etc.? —9950.
(1) By ballot among applicants considered
by the local .Land Board to have equal quali-
fications. (2) It. depends. The Land Board,
when dealing with the question of fitness,
takes into consideration experience, physical
fitness, capacity to obtain money to supple-
ment capital, and other similar qualifications.
The amount of capital which it is considered
desirable that an applicant should possess is
determined by the board when deciding
whether or not an applicant should be admit-
ted to a ballot. (3) Not at present, but it
is expected that a large area will be made
available in the near future. (4) Explana-
tory leaflets on application to Under-Secre-
tary, Department of Lands, Sydney.
(1) When is the usual moulting period for
poultry in Q’land? (2) Should pullets
hatched in July be moulting now? (3) How
could I have dodged this moult? —9939.
(1) From December to April. (2) It is
common for pullets hatched early in the year
to moult during the present period. (3)
Breeders occasionally dodge it by housing
under the intensive system and being careful
not to make any change in the ration. But
occasionally climatic conditions are such
that it is impossible to dodge a moult.
A hen, 8 months old, healthy till recently,
has developed what seems to be some form
of paralysis in the legs. She sits on the
ground most of the day; otherwise she shows
no signs of sickness. What’s wrong and
what’s the remedy? —9993.
The weakness is probably due to lack of
bone-forming foods during the developing
stage; if so, it cannot be rectified now. On
the other hand, the trouble may be due to
what is termed “laying cramp.” Beyond
keeping the bird in good dry quarters and
feeding a good mixed diet, little can be
attempted in the way of treatment. Paint-
ing the legs with a 10 per cent, solution of
iodine at intervals of two or three days might
be tried.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“E.W.”: If poultry-owners systematically
swept up feathers there would be fewer
cases of feather-eating. The wise poultry-
farmer gives no meat to birds in moult, and
the hens look for a substitute and go for
the feathers (often full of fat or blood in
the quill). Moulting poultry should be given
a warm mash (two parts pollard and one
part bran) in the morning, w T hole grain at
night, and a little green bone with the green
food at midday.
“Spike”: Even the most experienced
timber-fellers sometimes make a blunder when
felling standing timber to cut a pole, pile or
girder to a specified length, and good timber
is wasted because a stick when felled won’t
measure up to requirements. Here’s a way
to improvise a quadrant. Fix the end of your
tape to the butt of the tree, run the tape
out to the length you wish to cut, and drive
a stick or sapling into the ground at that
spot, so that when you stand erect the top
of the sapling will be level with your eyes.
Then, lie flat on your back with heels against
the butt of the sapling and sight on to the tree.
In your line of vision the spot where the
top of the sapling aligns with the tree-trunk
will be your required length, and a bit over.
“D.J.H.”: In planting trees this autumn
and winter find room for a few kurrajongs
(Sterculia diversifolia) and tagosaste, known
as tree lucerne. Many a holding has relied
on the foliage of these two trees during a
drought, and all classes of stock manage to
keep going on them. They are good doers,
growing well and suiting a very wide range
of districts. The kurrajong makes fair shade
and tagosaste is useful for breakwinds in
the sheep paddocks. Both are ornamental.
“Hallmint”: The sowing of prairie grass
(Bromus unioloides) should engage the atten-
tion of every farmer or grazier who needs
a pasture that grows well in the cool months.
Generally these months are devoid of green
grass, aiid the prairie grass fills the gap. It is
a good line for most districts, and if allowed
to seed occasionally will be soon established
as permanent pasture It is usually combined
with other grasses, but may be sown alone
at from 251 b. to 351 b. per acre. If it is to
be sown alone, graze the paddock off first;
spell for a while till it is established. Some
of the spring growth can be turned into
hay, and. added to other chaff, makes a good
ration. This grass is of special value to the
dairy-farmer, enabling him to keep up the
milk yield in autumn and winter.
“E.A.P.”: If a horse falls and breaks the
skin on its knees, get a clean dandy-brush
and brush the cut downwards with clean
cold water several times. Then apply with
a clean rag a mixture made by dissolving
one dessertspoonful each of chloride of lime
and boracic acid in a bottle of water, well
shaken up. Apply three or four times daily.
Cover the cut to keep the flies off —an old
white sock with the foot cut off answers
admirably.
“Wiremu”: The “Maori gravel soils” of
the Waimea plains (M.L.) are of astonish-
ing fertility, and settlers there have little
need for the use of artificial manures, despite
the fact that the land has been in close cul-
tivation for SO years. The soil was origin-
ally prepared by the Taumatakokiri tribe,
who, according to tradition, settled there
some 700 or 800 years ago. In order to
acclimatise the kumera, a sub-tropical vege-
table, they first lightened the rich loam with
fine gravel, and then burnt large quantities
of manuka scrub, spreading the resultant ash
on the land. Investigations by the Caw-
thron Institute show that this ash is rich
in lime phosphates and potash.


ŕ
Why be satisfied with less?
SHARE in the benefits that P. & C. Assurance brings ! When times
are hazardous the company keeps policies in force; a definite
sum is set aside each year for loan purposes. P. &C. policies
are planned to meet the special needs of the man on the land —these
are the things that have resulted from the co-operative basis of the
P. &C. The further fact that the company is linked with the most
influential co-operative bodies in the Commonwealth is yet another
factor in the stability of the company. When such advantages can
be obtained at no extra cost, why be satisfied with less ?
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Man. Director: H. Fell
PRODUCERS V CITIZENS
==_ COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LT'D.^.
11 4» lIP CASTLE REACH ST. SYDNEY
n«]
A. i
In
•fcV
: Wt
■
O
s—
ft «T
*a?
7/5 Quality Never Changes .
1/9 per 2oz. Tin.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
SMOKE-OH!
Ornithologists are objecting to the swans
in Canberra’s coat of arms. The birds have
hardly a leg to stand on.
* #
In Melbourne last week Mr. Menzies,
M.L.C., described the ideal M.P. Every
M.l*. in the room recognised himself at onci.
* *
Much knowledge I absorbed at mother's
knee ;
How well upon my mind did she emboss
it!
The lessons, though, which proved the best
for me,
I must confess, are those 1 learned across
it.
* *
On Friday in Melbourne 27 barbers were
charged with keeping common gaming-houses.
Many a girl was a shingle short that day.
HIS ELASTIC TONGUE.
“Gertrude, that’s enough—I never break my word.”
“Too flexible, hey?"
“Modern woman is becoming slim as the
result of exercise” So man’s excuse for get-
ting married is thinner than ever.
* *
Our ageing maidens do their best
To win the nicest chaps;
However, it must be confessed
The flappers win by laps.
Doric.
“And what were your father's last words?”
• I inquired,
“What message of hope did he send?”
“He said nothing,” she answered, “before he
expired;
Mother was there till the end!”
RiC.
* *
“Etlinologically speaking, Germany is the
father of England.” And not long ago the
father tried to cut the child off with a
shelling.
RI-FOL-D E-RIDDLE!
“The cable is safer for the transmission of secret
messages than beam-wireless.” — Press item.
Secret messages stay secret when dispatched
in cable code;
The message-tapper thus is kept at bay.
But some nuisance in the wireless world has
now found out a mode
To rifle the riddle on the ray!
J. A. P.
* *
TECHNICAL INNOCENCE!
“The Yic. Cabinet decided that .1. S.
speech at Yallourn, although on the face of it
amounting to incitation to violence, technically
and legally did not come under that category.”
Scene: Premier McPherson’s seaside home.
Telephone rings. Premier languidly takes
receiver off hook.
“What do you say? Melbourne Police
Headquarters, Toorak, speaking? But I
thought your address was
Russell-street. Oh! you’ve
moved from Russell-street
because the revolution is on?
What theatre is it at?....
They’re rioting, are they, and
they’ve thrown open Pent-
ridge? Well! Well! Well!
What won’t they do next,
the playful rascals ! Blown up
both Houses of Parliament,
you say? Too bad! I imagine
that’s actionable. I have a
good mind to get the A.-G.’s
opinion on the point.
“By the way, who is speak-
ing—What’s that? They’re
marching on Government
House and you want to know
what to do? Tell the Argus
that my Ministers and I are
carefully watching the situa-
tion. But technically and
legally, of course, there’s no
case against anyone. Good-
bye—oh, by the way, who is
speaking? I don’t recognise
the voice. Deputy-Commis-
sioner, eh? Why doesn’t the
Chief Commissioner speak ?
He’s hanging from a lamp-
post in Gollins-street, you
say? Really this is most
irregular. The men are going
much too far.” (Hangs up.)
“Now I wonder if Monash or
someone could be persuaded
to proceed against them for
damaging the lamp-post.”
M. G. S.
❖ *
Some married people get
angry and go to jaw about it.
* *
Thought inspired by the sight of old money-
bags and his new girl:—-
A young head on old shoulders is often
a sign of an old head on young shoulders.
V *
SHORT INDUSTRIAL FABLE.
The Genuine Case and the Inconsistent
Minister.
“Of course, in genuine cases, I take it you would
give a meal freely.”— N.S.W. Chief Secretary to
Sydney restaurant-keeper, who complained of having
lost £132 in unpaid-for meals.
The Striker was obviously a Genuine Case
of Food Hunger, so the Innkeeper gave him
a Free Dinner. A clothier —unable to deny
the Genuineness of the Striker’s Sartorial
Needs —gave him a Free Suit, Free Hat and
Free Boots. On Learning that his only
Abode was a Park, a Property-Owner gave
him a Free House, and a Furnishing Firm
Free Furniture. Thus equipped, the Striker
became a Go-Getter and sold One Hundred
Acres of Worthless Swamp to the Chief Sec-
retary for Building Purposes. Upon Inspect-
ing the Property the Chief Secretary recog-
nised the Striker as a Genuine Case of Money
Hunger and gave him in charge, and a
Magistrate gave him six months.
Moral: Don't Overdo It.
10-2-4
* *
A scientist says that in Africa grass-
hoppers’ eyes are on their legs. That’s
HE’D HEARD JONES NAME IT.
“Jones seems to be having some trouble
with his crimson rambler!”
“How do you know it’s a crimson rambler?”
“Cripes! Are you deaf?”
nothing. In Australia men’s eyes are on
flappers’ legs.
At At
“Retiring members are marked with an
asterisk.” —S. M. Herald’s Q. election report.
Indicating the way most of them felt, pre-
sumably.
¥ ¥
“I don’t care whether one is shot or an-
other is hanged.”—Judge Coyle at Parramatta
election inquiry. An uncompromising pro-
hibitionist, evidently. Anyone else would
rather see both get shot.
¥ ¥
“Enthusiast Gardener” in the Sun :
“Coming home last night I found the garden
pillaged and some of the vegetables gone.”
His heart must have missed more than a
beet.
Australia’s Bruce and Britain s Baldwin
have at least one ideal in common: both
favor a “Back to Wales” movement.
* *
CAUSE AND DEFECT.
“Oh share my lot!” The girl was bound
To heed so passionate a prayer.
Yet they're not married, for she found
He had not got a Tot to share.
H. H.
¥ *
“More than 2000 unionists assembled at the Trades
Hall this morning to participate in a demonstra-
tion through the city. Numerous manners were
displayed by the men.” — Sydney Suit.
Fortunately they were not the sort that
Jock Garden wanted them to display in Mr.
Myers shop.
* H-
DISTINCTIONS.
The mounted sheik rode into the desert
encampment, snatched
up the girl and car-
ried her off to his
tent. And the Flap-
per in the picture-
show audience mur-
mured, “Isn’t he just
too divine for words!”
“Come for a spin,
girlie?” said the sheik
in the car. She
acquiesced, and he
drove her to his flat.
Afterwards she re-
ported liis behavior to
the police, and he got
live years. “The vile
brute!” snorted the
Flapper, after reading
the lurid details in
her favorite weekly.
Dor.
¥ ¥
“In the year 1924125 revenue was only
£68,854,809.” —Sydney Sun.
However, high hopes are entertained for
2100001.
¥ ¥
Knighthoods for world-fliers are as a rule
mere matters of sircumference.
¥ ¥
The flapper looks on a meeting with a
man friend on a tram as a fare tiling; and
usually he has to stand for it.
¥ ¥
Said by the police of a Sydney vagrant
that he only had a bath about once a year.
His bathday party.
X. AS
THE LAST OF HIS TRIBE.
(After Henry Kendall.)
Motor-car accidents in Sydney for three months
caused 51 deaths.”
He crouches, and clings to the kerb with
, both hands,
And his eyes have a look of despair;
For he cannot risk facing the mad driving
ba7ids
Because of the death lurking there —
Of the hotrible death lurking there.
Pedestra, behold him! The thunder that
breaks
On his nerves place a terrible strum,
And the fiends who drive at him with cars
of all makes
Have made him go bounding again —
Go bounding and leaping again,
Will he go in his leaps from these speed-
maddened lands
To the rest of his out-flattened race;
Will the honey-voiced cop who beckons and
stands
Look down like a dream on his face —
Like a dream on his moribund face?
D. McM.
FAITHLESS HORACE.
• The first time Horace met her he was
filled with keen delight. As his eyes beheld
her loveliness his heart with ardor beat.
He and she drove home together ’neath a
moon whose clear, pure light seemed to dim
the very lamps that lit the street. Full
many a time thereafter on a wide romantic
road, while gems of dew bedecked the coun-
tryside, she’d murmur gently to him, and
his heart with pride o’erflowed. And he'd
cry: “You’re mine, all mine, whate’er be-
tide.”
Great days they had together in the bush
and by the sea, and then, alas! he started
to grow cold. Her bonnet, which he’d once
admired, now seemed to him to be unfashion-
able in design and old. “We two must
part,” he cried one day in tones that echoed
far. She’d stopped and he was dancing on
his hat. The auctioneer said: “Gentlemen,
a fiver for this car!” And he sold her, sold
her cheerfully for that!
C.W.H.
A CLOSE SHAVE.
The razor was blunt and little Willie
would persist in wandering through my legs.
While I hacked at my face and tried to
avoid stamping on the child I despairingly
added up the week’s accounts. I had just
come to the part of the sum which disclosed
that drinks for the ensuing seven days would
have to be off when I heard a shriek from
the wife.
“What’s up?” I cried.
The only answer was another and more
prolonged shriek.
“What is it?”' I howled.
“Oh, George, we’ve won the Golden
Casket! We’ve won the Golden Casket!
The Golden Casket! Ooooooli!”
I dropped the razor and fell over Willie,
but his bellowings were nothing. Her
words had sent a thrill through me—-a thrill
which sent my heart jumping, my imagina-
tion leaping. £5000? What wouldn’t I do
with it! No more worrying over Willie’s
shoes! No more rotten razor-blades! No
more arguments with creditors. Five thou-
sand pounds ! Limousines ! Cabarets ! Holi-
days at the seaside! Gin-slings for the morn-
ing after ! I saw myself—saw my astonished,
delighted face in the glass. A moment more
and I had my wife in my arms!
“It’s too good to be true!”
“No,” she laughed, happily, confidently.
“It’s all true, dear. I saw our number there
quite plainly. Our ticket, No. 265,289, wins
five pounds!”
ERIC BEDFORD.
SABBATH SAYINGS.
“Cripes!” “Gor’ blimey!” “Struth!” “Gee
'ic’hjtz f**
“Damn it all!” “Oh hell!”
“Blast it!” “Crikey!” “Biases,” “Darn” —
Other things as well;
“Blinkin’ liar,” “Blanky goat” —-
Phrases even, stronger,
Ev’ry Sabbath to me float;
But I blush no longer.
Not m pubs I overhear
Cries like “Blasted fool!”
No. Such words my kiddies dear
Learn in. Sunday-school!
DORIC.
MEDITATION.
On viewing the picture of a nude lady seated
on a bear skin.
Why does she sit at the sofa corner,
Naked and all alone;
In the soft embrace of a polar-bear skin,
Like a queen on a great white throne?
Dreams she, perchance, of an absent Ibvcr,
Happy and devil-may-care,
That she caresses with delicate fingers
The skin of the polar bear?
Is she expecting his swift arrival,
Sensing the dear delight,
When he comes hot-foot to the sofa corner,
Out of the misty night?
GENEROUS TO A DEGREE.
But. no! There’s never a trace of passion,
•Tier breasts seem carven from stone.
So why (Joes she sit on that great white bear-
skin,
Naked and all alone.
Perhaps she comes from her perfumed toilet,
Glowing as pink coals glow,
Proudly arrayed for some fancy revel,
Simply as Eve. But no!
She hasn’t a fan, nor a bag of foibles,
And, sure, she’d be chilled to the bone;
So why docs she sit in her gleaming bare
skin,
Naked and, all alone?
S.A.
WILLIAM JAMES DIGGER.


ŗ


-
- wv\
r-vv
m.
r!-' ' L
' ".i ‘
MM ■
1$
/V
pillSpl
\iSll
tl
bk&#
••••■/•
A./.
:
ZMMs
!£
S&#
i ■ •
fcl
.A
' V
Sw/f/s s?
■
1
~U
ww
jyw
. a
The Modern Way to
Virile Strength and Power!
Remarkable picture showing George O f ßrien, famous “Fox” Star, a magnificent Specimen
of Manhood , against a towering Modern Background of Stole and SteeL
Pulses leap afresh with re-invigorated
blood when you take Cream of Yeast.
Muscles ripple as the buoyancy of better
health returns; eyes brighten, cheeks
glow with healthy color; the step
quickens; a cheery smile appears. Cream
of Yeast is the world’s most modern
remedy. Take it for bad nerves, indiges-
tion, sleeplessness, dizzy, pain-racked
spells, and skin troubles. Take it when
you fed tired, depressed and “below
par”—but be sure you get genuine
Cream of Yeast, the kind that has the
largest sales, gives most reliable results,
costs least and is guaranteed to give you
definite benefit with the first bottle or
cost you nothing! Every chemist and
store sells Cream of Yeast —24 tablets,
1/11, 48 for 3/6, or 125 for 5/9. Famous
people rely on Cream of Yeast, and a
guarantee protects you. Cream of Yeast
is the best and quickest way to Better
Health and Greater Strength. Try it!
ř


mm l %
W® "i
; v .. . . , . .
m&W v*
m
:
■IFII
W
■ •'■: "■:
*-T*
fjfm
{t
Macnawx
sJL t JBL DYNAMIC LOUD SPEAKERS
Y I "HE Dynamic Speaker covers
* the entire audible scale, ren-
dering all notes, all instruments
with next-to-perfect fidelity. No
other instrument goes farther (nor,
perhaps, so far) in reproducing
sound so true to the original.
UNITS ONLY FROM £7/1 57-
CABINET MODELS FROM £lO
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL RADIO DEALERS
WHOLESALE & RETAIL DISTRIBUTORS IN ALL STATES.
a
<©
12-28
•WINCHESTER
TRADE MARK
RiSles are
Cast, accurate,
dependable arms
WINCHESTER .22 caliber
rifles and ammunition are
made with the same care and atten-
tion to shooting results as Winches-
ter high power rifles and ammunition.
Always use Winchester ammunition
in Winchester rifles —they are made
for each other.
SAFE - SURE ACCURATE
For sale by dealers everywhere
‘WINCHESTER
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS CO.
New Haven, Cona., U. S. A,
n
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
THE WORLD’S LARGEST COMMERCIAL FORESTRY CO.
SUBSCRIBED SHARE CAPITAL £235,586
SUBSCRIBED BOND CAPITAL £2,750,000
BANKERS—THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND AND THEIR AGENTS.
SOLE BROKERS —SMITH, WYLIE AND CO., LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN BRANCHES AT MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE,
AUSTRALIAN rSKANorI pE HQBART AND NEWCASTLE.
„^. Tlxrri Bpjwnnua AUCKLAND WELLINGTON, CHRISTCHURCH AND DUNEDIN;
Pen and Picture
Shadow Shows
Anybody with
an optic nerve
as strong as
a high-tension
cable and as
agile as the
arguments of an
insurance agent
should enjoy
“Underground” (Brit. Dom. Films), a better
title for which would be “Osculating on the
Escalators.” One is introduced to Elissa
Landi, Brian Aherne and the rest of an excel-
lent cast in a London tube, and most of the
love-making is pursued on the moving stair-
case ; so if there were no dramatic action in
the story there would still be enough move-
ment to satisfy any ordinary spectator. How-
ever, there is dramatic action and a simple,
salubrious and sentimental story of humble
love and languishment, which hardly needs
retelling here. Brian Aherne, the lengthy
youth who was in Australia once with the
Boucicault Vanbrughs, contributes an unusu-
ally intelligent performance to a picture of
considerable artistic merit.
“The Divine Lady” (First National) is
one of those half-and-half movies. It cannot
be called a talkie, because nobody talks; and
it is not silent, because music runs along
with it, a woman sings—very sweetly, too—
and the guns of Nelson’s ships at the Nile
and Trafalgar bark loud and long. The re-
production or imitation of the gunfire is the
picture’s least-successful item ; it is so obvi-
ously a banging together of empty tins. Yet
even that is to some extent effective,
for, with the flashes and smoke, it gives
an impression of the uproar which the
CORINNE GRIFFITH.
silent movie
could not man-
age. Regarded
strictly as an
entertainer,
the picture is
excellent. It
uses the ver-
sion of the
Nelson - Lady
Hamilton love
affair por-
trayed by the
woman who
writes pscudo-
nymously a s
E. Barrington,
and the novel,
such as it is,
i s followed
faithfully. The
loveliness of
Emm a ; the
perfidy of
Charles Grev-
ille, who allows
her to go to
Naples with
his uncle, Sir William Hamilton; her cold
marriage to Sir William; her meeting with
Captain Nelson and her influence later _in
getting his ships provisioned; their meeting
again after Nelson’s victorious return from
the Nile; her yielding to his pleading to re-
turn to England with him; the snub she gets
from Royalty; the faithfulness that makes
Nelson take her to a secluded village; their
ideal life there; then Trafalgar, with Nel-
son breathing her name as he dies. Of these
ingredients First National has made a color-
ful movie; the makers, in fact, succeed much
better than does the author in recreating the
times of the inspired battle-order. Corinne
Griffith is convincing as the fictional Lady
Hamilton, and Victor Varconi and H'. B.
Warner respectively make sound jobs of Nel-
son and Hamilton.
“Sally’s Shoulders” (F. 8.0.) is our old
familiar friend the Cinderella fable brought
up to date by being provided with the back-
ground of American Liquor Law enforce-
ment. Sally (Lois Wilson) is the gentle
creature with the quivering • lower lip who
keeps the home together while the sister
with the mercenary nose imperils her immor-
tal soul in the office of the cabaret proprietor
whose eyes are just a trifle too close
to one another. Meanwhile the brother with
the chin that is conspicuous by its absence
embezzles money from the bank, and the
cabaret proprietor, hearing that his institu-
tion is to be raided, has a lorry-load of boot-
leg whisky removed and stored in Cinder-
ella’s cellar, unknown to the lady. Cinder-
ella’s home, which is a cafe, is duly raided
and the whisky found; the cafe is then sealed
up for a year. In order to save her brother
from imprisonment, Cinderella becomes a
hired dancer at the cabaret proprietor’s
emporium, which is once more raided. Cin-
derella allows herself to be caught in the
proprietor’s room in order to shield her
sister. Six thousand feet of film having been
unwound and no other ways of straining
Cinderella’s remarkable capacity for self-
sacrifice occurring to the producer, Prince
Charming is allowed to appear and suitably
reward the lady. Prince C. is only romantic
by a popular fiction. Otherwise the picture
is O.K. comedy, as well as being an’ amusing
comment on Uncle’s 18th Amendment.
This Showman has waited a while just as
an experiment to see what sort of reception
“Captain Lash” would get from an Aus-
tralian public. It is a striking example of
what the cinema can get away with. Lash
—played with fine realism by Victor
McLaglen—-is a boozing, lecherous, quarrel-
some stoker. His lustful eye rests on a
female crook in the first saloon, and she uses
him to smuggle some stoleh rubies ashore at
Singapore. She has pinched the rubies from
another passenger whom she has seduced
into trying to seduce her. At Singapore
Lash is met by a street-walker —an old flame
-—but he rejects her advances, being tem-
porarily infatuated with the crook. The
street-walker gets maudlin drunk in a bar
with one of Lash’s stoker friends, whose
mission seems to be to save Lash from the
consequences of his promiscuous habits. Lash
enters the bar, having been insulted by'the
crook and attacked by her men friends. He
has been taught his lesson—that the affec-
tion of a loving and honest, though alcoholic,
prostitute is not a thing to be cast lightly
aside. The customary fade-out discloses Lash
arid the daughter of joy in each other’s arms.
England’s Jix would censor any book or play
with such a frankly debasing theme, but
apparently you can say anything provided
you say it with pictures. Poor old Zola
lived too soon.
The Palette
Colin Colahan’s exhibition at Melbourne
Athenaeum is a lyric dissertation in 58 oils
on the omnipotence of tone. Incidentally, the
show is a marked advance on its predecessor.
Imagination and sentiment have their throats
cut without so much as a by-your-leave.
Every impression is set down as it impinges
on the optic nerve and in its correct re-
lationship ; and when he is satisfied that he
has registered all that his eye can honestly
see the artist drives on. This method
involves such a ruthless disregard of the
rules and regulations hitherto governing Aus-
tralian landscape that the spectator gets the
impression that he is seeing bits of his coun-
try pictured for the first time. Yet the
scenes portrayed are such as have been
painted over and over again by artists who
carried to them not so much the desire to
see but the hope of being able to force
nature into some preconceived plan—usually
preconceived by somebody else.
It is interesting to note how much beauty
arrives by a method hitherto condemned by
all right-thinking painters. The charm of
the shadows on the road in Colahan’s No. 49
cannot be denied. Nos. 15, 1(5 and 17 are
the same bit of coast painted at different
times, and not only is each faithful to the
physical anatomy of the scene, but is
endowed with the atmosphere of its appro-
priate mood. Here and there in the street-
scapes a false note sounds, but they remain
none the less the most convincing studies of
the city’s arteries this eye lias seen. A
large nude is a startling display of virtuosity
in paint. The portrait of M. de Tarczynski,
conductor of the Athenaeum orchestra, is
somewhat too smoothly lighted, but the dress-
suit the gentle musician is wearing would
deceive a silverfish that had lost the sense
of smell.
A tiny piece called “St. Cloud” is . one of
the few exciting things in Eric Scott's exhi-
bition of etchings at the Macquarie Galleries,
Sydney. Scott is an Australian who has
lived in France since the war, and his topics
are nearly all French. He has a fine eye
for decorative values, but something spidery
in his touch detracts from work that nar-
rowly misses -being excellent. The “St.
Cloud” piece—which, in spite of its small-
ness, looks a gift at a guinea—and a patch
of heavy shade under trees both reveal . a
firmness of touch that suggests an artist
capable of much better work.
“F.S.”: The most remarkable pupil in the
art section of the Working Men’s College in
Melbourne is Athol Thompson. Tutor P.M.
Carew-Smytli admitted him to the class two
years ago on the strength of a pencil draw-
ing. At that time the youth was in poor
health and spirits. Since then he has de-
veloped rapidly in health, spirits and crafts-
manship, and the other day the trustees were
shown a still-life painted by him which
showed great promise. Thompson works
with pencil or brush between his teeth, both
his arms having been amputated at the
shoulders.
“F.S.”: The Victorian Artists’ Society,
judging by its latest exhibition, is ripe for
another secession. It has staggered under
several such blows in the past, but bitter
experience has never moved it to mend its
ways. Members with serious ( aims com-
plain that the only way a person can insure
rejection of his work, however awful, is
to arrive after all the available wall-space
has been allocated. Among the younger men
who might form the nucleus of a new
organisation are Buckmaster, Thompson,
Jorgensen, Farmer and Griffin.
“F.S.” : The committee of the Aboriginal
Art exhibition to be held in Melbourne in
July has decided to bring two full-
blooded indigenes from Centralia for the
event. The enterprise is fraught with diffi-
culties, as the shy birds of the wilderness
will have to be looked after day and night
by a bushman who knows their psychology
and needs inside out. George Alston, Pro-
tector of Binghi north of latitude 30 in South
Aus., has agreed to undertake the job.
The Inky Way
“Lao-dah”: The Bulletin not only goes
a long way; it also lasts a long time. Visit-
ing for the first time in my life Alcock and
Pierce’s gunshop in Little Collins-street, Mel-
bourne, I was shown a letter received that
morning from Sharp Perk, China, inquiring
after a Marlin rifle which had been “adver-
tised in The Bulletin 17 years ago.” The
Marlin has long been obsolete. The inquirer
was an old China colleague whom I hadn’t
seen for 20 years.
THE CREEPING ARMY.
There is a tribe, elusive, slim,
Whose .cohorts take their toll
In manner saturninely grim
Or mood perversely droll;
They do not march, or walk, or bound,
Or fly or swim, but creep
Upon a weary quarry found
In deep, post-dated sleep.
And after ev’ry sortie’s close
There’s trouble dark and grim
From gents austere and bellicose
And matrons proud and prim;
And casualties are forced to say
(Nor own they ever slept)
“Into our columns yesterday.
Somehow, an error crept!”
n.s.w. llomfrey Beale.
“Loud”: Fleet-street is chuckling over a
cinema puff paragraph : “Anyone frightened at
the title of this week’s Empire film, ‘Man,
Woman and Sin,’ need be under no misap-
prehension. The sin is only the murder of
a newspaper proprietor by one of his
reporters.”


A New Automotive
UQOU
AAAAAM
AA At
r
Model 6ij Fjvß'Passenger. Sedan.
Record
Graham -PAIGE sixes and eights—•
introduced last year—achieved the greatest
first year sales volume of any, line of cars
in automobile history. In the new line of
motor cars now on display, we believe you
will find improved appearance, finer perform-
ance, and even more substantial value.
juried
Graham-Paige Distributors Australia and New Zealand:
QUEENSLAND
NEW SOUTH WALES
VICTORIA
MOXON MOTORS, LTD.
W. H. LOBER & CO., LTD.
WALTER WHITBOURN PTY., LTD.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
WEST AUSTRALIA
TASMANIA
. . THE MAUGHAN THIEM MOTOR CO., LTD.
ARTHUR BALES, LIMITED.
TWINTOP MOTORS PTY., LTD.
WRIGHT, STEPHENSON & CO., LTD.
NEW ZEALAND
£AAMAM-AAl££
NERVES A-JANGLE
Out of bed with head all dizzy, limbs aching, bad taste in the mouth, a
sense of weariness and depression is that the way to start the day ?
The majority of men (and women, too) who com-
plain of constant dreadful dizziness, pains in back,
joints and muscles, headache, irritableness, loss of
vigour, fail to realise that the seat of their trouble lies
in the kidneys. The kidneys are the most vital of all
bodily organs. On them depends the purity of the
blood, and consequently the strength or weakness of
nerves and muscles.
When the kidneys fail, poisons accumulate in the
blood which cause pain in muscles and joints. Nerves
become frayed and irritated. No wonder you are
often weak and dizzy. No wonder you feel old and
tired and worn out with the least exertion. What
is the good of “doping” the system with heart-exciting
“tonics”?
Why weaken the body with purging salts when the
only possible means of re-establishing health and
vigour is to restore the kidneys to healthy action? Do
you know, thousands of people have found that by
taking a short course of treatment with De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills, they have enjoyed a new
lease of life?
Men and women once crippled with pain, bedridden,
have once again enjoyed splendid vigour and vitality,
thanks to this famous remedy, which sells by millions
of bottles the world over. Why not ask your Chemist
about De Witt’s Kidney and Badder Pills.
THIS REMEDY BEARS A
GUARANTEE
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are not a
new untested, untried, “craze-of-the-moment”
preparation, but for over 40 years have been
bringing health, yes, and happiness to thou-
sands of men and* women in this country. In
practically every town and village there is
someone relieved of terrible Kidney Trouble,
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, Bladder
Weakness who could tell you just how good
this remedy is. In 24 hours from the very first
dose you will know the pills are doing you
good. Persevere and your painful health
trouble will be ended. Is not the small cost of
“De Witt’s” well worth a return of vigorous
health? Ordinary size costs but 3/6; the
larger and more economical size, 6/6, should
prove sufficient for a most obstinate case.
%
*r
%
A Woman Wrote This to
Help Other Sufferers.
Mrs. E. L. Hammond, Kemp-
ling Street, West Devonport,
Tasmania, says : —“For three yean
I suffered very badly from Kidney
Trouble. I was in constant pain
and tried all sorts of remedies,
which did me no good at all. My
sister, who had benefited by Di
Witt’s Pills, persuaded me to givt
them a trial. lam indeed very
grateful for the health ‘De Witt’s
have brought me after taking only
two bottles. I have told a great
number how good this remedy is
I am now in perfect health.”
“De Witt’s” cost so little yel
Work sucli wonders.
De WITT’S
Kidney and
Bladder
We believe there is no substitute “just as good”
for De Witt’s Pills. Cheaper pills there may be.
Bear in mind “De Witt’s” carry a definite
guarantee to show results in 24 hours.
r
at*
rfS
<s^-
wr.
*
m
it?
v*U
*
\W'
d*f*
V>
or.
Blf
& %S° lf r<°
C* .>
m
!**
d*>
#5
SN


MATCHLESS AR.OMA
&
m
M
sr\s
V:.
i
mmszfi.
\'
m
mmm
WSk
m
mm
8
DRY GINS
« T 'UCO l o*t *1(0 **
f t«RAi *gg!~
mci'6ouonC - -^;e;
mm
ms.
mmm
*fJxsJ*zx CsShV
il
i»
■;.■•'■■ ■
«
PRICE I
BERAYI
« -a
H/
iJMonths of research abroad; working
and investigating wherever distilling
was done ; rejecting commonplace prac-
tice; accepting only the belt frim all
known methods; improving on old
formula by the use of modern apparatus
.... thus our chemiSl produced in
CrySlal Court not only Australia's
first, but the World's f nest dry gnt.
AN aroma apart . . . individual, enticing, aristocratic. The outcome
of a distilling method won from world-wide research, the aroma
of Crystal Court Dry Gin is allied with its matchless purity and
clarity —— an alliance which has won for it the title of Australia s First
and the World’s Finest Dry Gin.”
As a medicinal spirit Crystal Court is pre-eminent . . . because it's pure.
As a bracing tonic it is the favorite of all men . . . because it's pure .
As the basis of any mixed drink it is hailed by connoisseurs . * * because
it's pure.
Crystal Court Dry Cin is obtainable at all Hotel Bars,
Bottle Departments and Licensed Stores.
Many valuable recipes for cocktails and other pleasing drinks are contained in our little
booklet, "Here’s How." Ask for a free copy when next you order Crystal Court Gin,
or write direct to Federal Distilleries Pty. Ltd., Port Melbourne.
DRY GIN
QUADRUPLE DISTILLED FOR. PURITY'S SAKE


Wise Mothers all over
Australia save much money
by making their own
family remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS, CROUP,
BRONCHITIS and
INFLUENZA
COSTS 2/- SAVES £’s.
To save much money by making the best family remedy
for chest and throat ailments, order from your chemist
or store a two-shilling bottle of concentrated Heenzo. By
adding the Heenzo to sweetened water, you will have a
supply equal in quantity and superior in quality to eight
ordinary-sized bottles of the usual made-up cough and
influenza remedies that would cost up to £ 1.
Heenzo is equally good for children or adults, and, because
it does NOT contain poisons, it can be given to even the
youngest baby without upsetting the digestion. You will
be delighted with the speedy way Heenzo soothes sore
throats, eases the chest and banishes even the worst
attacks of coughing.
itstV'i -? v.<9wr* " —> ' "
should be used in every home.
M
MR. WILLIAM
HEUGHAN,
Scotland’s
Greatest
Basso.
The following letter, from Mr. William Heughan, is typical
of over 12,000 received from grateful users of HEENZO: —
“On my first visit to Australia I proved the goodness of
Heenzo as a remedy for chest and throat ailments. Since
then I have travelled twice around the World, and nowhere
have I found any remedy to equal Heenzo for soothing sore
throats, easing the chest, and banishing coughs and
influenza.”
A message of hope to all sick folk l
When we say that money cannot buy a better tonic than Hean’s Tonic Nerve Nuts for restoring the health of people who are run-down,
nervy, neurotic, anaemic or out-of-sorts, we substantiate the claim by publishing the formula of this popular tonic. Hean’s Tonic Nerve Nuts
contain calcium, glycerophosphate, carbonate of iron, extract cascara sagrada and capsicin. They are compounded in tablet form, and your
own doctor will tell you what an excellent formula this is for restoring the health of people suffering from ailments caused by exhausted
nerves, poorness of blood, overwork or worry. Modern chemistry has proved the advisability of preparing such remedies in tablet form,
for it solves the problem of correct doses, and is more convenient for taking and carrying by users. Modern laboratory methods have made
it possible for Hean’s Tonic Nerve Nuts to be sold to the public at a reasonable price, for boxes containing 12 days’ supply cost only
3/-, and, in most cases, good health is assured by the taking of two or three boxes. In the treatment of long-standing ailments the use
of six boxes is advised.
HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS


I Js...
sSjiS
isw
*a
fW.V:
The Wool World
Meets at SCOTT’S
Since the days of the State's earliest wool sales,
Scott’s Hotel has always been recognised as the
meeting place in Melbourne of Pastoralists, Wool Buyers,
and Stock and Station Agents, the leading Station Sales
being held there. “Scott’s” is situated adjacent to all the
leading wool houses, and is equipped with _ every modern
convenience, including electric fans, electric fires, and
intercommunicating telephones in all bedrooms.
Telegrams: “Scottsotel, Melbourne”
’Phone: Central 9011 (10 lines)
COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
ŗ
ř
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Williamstown flags flew at half-mast last
Saturday. Norman Falkiner, M.L.C., who
died in England a few days before, had been
a member of the W.R.C. committee. Singular
that sport should open with the Ivororoit
Hurdle win of Swahilli, a gelding bred by
the late sportsman, who originally raced him.
Present owner is M. Keleher, who ran third
in the Australian Cup of 1923 with Stal-
wart., Percy Padfield prepares Swahilli. He
completed a jumping double by taking the
Autumn Steeplechase with his own horse,
Cobbon, a much-improved ’chaser.
Owing, to Adsuml being unable to do him-
self justice, Swahilli had nothing much to
beat in the Hurdle. Bob Inkson was hard
at Adsum for more than a mile, but he
responded weakly. It would be wasting
money to send this chestnut across! to Rand-
wick for the A.J.C. Hurdle. Rotarian car-
ried the J. F. Brewer colors into second
place. Tirade, another son of Lanius,
attracted notice by coming from a long way
back to finish just behind the place-getters.
Epical lias gone completely off since he van-
quished Arcadius over the battens at Kyne-
ton and won so brilliantly at Aspendale
Park. H’ow he ever beat Arcadius is a
mystery. Latter won in open company over
a mile at Williamstown, and, unless too
well taken care of by the handicapper, must
go near to a Grand National triumph.
Top Gallant, 192 G Futurity Stakes winner,
has sired a particularly smart filly in Gallo-
pade. whose dam, Irish Jig, produced Chariot
to Eudorus. Gallopade asserted her superi-
ority at the home turn, and was making a
leisurely line for the Williamstown judge
when Frank Dempsey brought Violet Rays
on the scene at express speed. Neville Perci-
val drew the whip on Gallopade, who re-
sponded adequately. Two sons of the late
Harry Underwood, who sat for years on the
Williamstown committee, own Gallopade.
They were very much afraid of Woorady,
who ran third. Woorady is a stable-com-
panion of the winner. His owner, Mr. W. E.
J. Craig, swept the boards with Royal Feast
as a juvenile.
Consequent on his Warrnambool Cup vic-
tory, Mountain Prince was favorite for the
middle-distance Bay View Handicap. He
didn’t reflect credit on the Mollison livery,
and ran seventh in a field of 10. 11. and M.
Bourke, benefactors of Pakenham racing, took
the spoils with All Crimson, whose jockey,
W. Elliott, piloted Arcadius to victory in the
concluding event, the Beach Welter. All
Crimson established a course record by cover-
ing the mile and a quarter in 2min. fi^sec.
The Tasmanian trainer G. ll'. Cann made
his influence felt at Williamstown. He pock-
eted £5O out of the Bay View Handicap stake
with Laird o’ Cockpen, and was blessed by
bookmakers for landing the Gellibrand Han-
dicap with Doradus, a 20-to-l chance. Dor-
adus is related to Danton, whom Cann sold
at a high figure to T. M. Burke as a three-
year-old. Goble, second in the Beach Welter,
also hails from Tasmania, but is regularly
trained at Caulfield by Frank Robinson.
* * * *
For Moonee Valley on Saturday:—
Commonwealth Steeple: Willangie or
George William.
Mt. Alexander Handicap: Mountain Prince
or Laird o’ Cockpen.
* * * *
Tattersall’s postponed meeting at Rand-
wick on Thursday again struck wet weather.
Form was not appreciably affected, though
the Ring had the better of exchanges.
George Foulsham’s W. 8., though due for a
win, went out at sixes in the hurdles, and
won a close race from the favorite, May Day,
(twos) with the 14 to 1 Stony third. A
great finishing run in the six-furlong Flying
saw the Rossendale gelding Casque d’Or,
ridden b.y C. Pike, carry 7st. 31b. home from
Coercion (7st. 21b.) and the top weighted fav-
orite, Fuji San (9st. 121 b.), a short head
away in third place. The winner, trained
by G. Price, started at fives, and the time,
limn. 12sec., was first-class for the day.
Tattersall’s Stakes, over a mile and a
quarter, was won comfortably by Eillom,
a Magpie filly owned by R. Price. The win-
ner, carrying 7st. 31b., went out at eights,
Roley (fours) and Eubul (14’s) chasing her
home. A.J.C. chairman Colin Stephen’s Voleuse
was pulled out of the six-furlong event for
the Two Year Olds, but stable companion
COULDN’T HELP IT.
SHE: “Why on earth are you teeing off with a mashie instead of a driver?”
HE: “Because the dashed artist doesn’t know the difference , of course.”
Lorason, at threes, duly collected after a
warm finish, from Tray mobile and Palm-
dale. This was the winner’s first appear-
ance in public. By the imported Tippler,
he carries the colors of Mrs. Hunter White.
In the James Barnes Stakes, of one mile
and three furlongs, W. Kelso scored a. popu-
lar win with the Magpie gelding Induce-
ment, owned by R. Miller. Starting at
7 to 2, the favorite won handsomely from
Octember (sixes) and Murillo (15’s). The
Welter Handicap, over a mile, produced some
brisk wagering, with T. Hannan’s Bacagi
favorite at fours. A challenge by the 10 to 1
shot Tarapunga resulted in a dead heat
between the pair, with Valley (fives) third.
Paddock dividends were 17s. 6d. for Bacagi,
and £2 7s. for Tarapunga.
* * * *
Punters did fairly at Moorefield on Satur-
day. three first favorites getting home. Paul
T., quoted at fours, took the opening Hurdle,
the 5-to-2 favorite Rearguard failing to catch
the judge’s eye. The Kogarah Stakes, over
a mile and a quarter, proved easy for the 3-
to-1 favorite Franciscan, the Grey Monk
gelding, owned and trained by J. H'unter,
winning by five lengths from Notoriety
(14’s) and Star Dweller (s’s).^
W. T. Kerr’s Valais filly Valerie, steered
by W Cook, went out at 5 to 2 for the first
division of the six-furlong Maiden Juvenile,
and won by two and a half lengths from
Roseflight (5 to 2) and Sweet Accord (B’s).
The second division went to a 20-to-l outsider,
Seaborn, owned and trained by J. Phoenix.
The winner finished in taking fashion a
head in front of Prince Tercian (s’s), with
Delle Rose (14’s) two lengths away third.
Sargadon, backed to 5 to 2, was not heard
of. The Flying Handicap (0 furlongs) saw
Cook again score on Venetian Lady. The
Wolaroi mare started at fours and won by
three lengths from Resorby (10’s) and Grit-
all (33’s) in lmin. 15}sec. Goodstead, in-
stalled favorite at 9 to 4, finished last.
Puff was selected as the pea for the Moore-
field Handicap over a mile and a quarter,
and this time justified the confidence of her
backers.. Backed down to 5 to 2 and ably
handled by Cook, the Tractor mare stalled
off a challenge from Nan Kourgan (6’s),
with Munro up, and landed the race by a
short head. Ilincliinbrook (20’s) was three
lengths away third. The usual Moorefield
boil-over for the “last,” the Carlton Welter,
over a mile, was supplied by Nina Blankney,
owned by 11. Tasker, the mare winning for
the first time after running five seconds this
season. Her nominal price was 33 to 1, and
the paddock tote paid £2B 15s. fid. Marshon
(Id’s) and Nolens Volens (B’s) followed her
home. Roley, favorite at fours, again let
his backers down.
For Warwick Farm on Saturday:—
Farm Stakes : Pollux ; next Eubul.
Nursery Handicap: Traymobile; next,
Valerie. .
Prospect Handicap: Casque d Ur; next,
Venetian Lady.
May Handicap: Blather; next, Puff.
Casula Handicap: Fool’s Paradise; next,
Anorient.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Jack Carroll (lOst. 71b.), Australia’s wel-
terweight champion, was decidedly unfortu-
nate in being spilled in the eleventh round
of his scheduled 15-round bout with Meyer
Grace (lOst. B|lb.), a recent importation
from America, after the Aussie appeared to
have the argument well in hand. Meyer is
a thick-set warrior, and adopts the usual
swinging methods of his type. His per-
sistent if ineffective swipes put the neces-
sary ginger into the affair, but Jack never
seemed in danger and soon established a big
lead on points. A shock punch to the chin
in the eleventh sent the local man to the
canvas, arid so surprised was he that he
failed to realise his danger. Ho scrambled
to his feet, when another sweep sent him
down again. A third visitation found him
unable to beat the count.
❖ ❖ ♦ H*
There was nothing wildly exciting, at Syd-
ney Stadium on Saturday night, when Aus-
tralian Billy Grime and Yankee Sammy
Shack were the principals. Though Grime
won easily on points, he did not look like
winning by a k.o. at any stage. The right
calls for little description, Grime’s best
punches being a left rip to the body and a
long-range right to the jaw. The American
was making his first appearance, and created
a very poor impression. The weaving, bob-
bing head of the Australian had him sorely
puzzled and made him miss by yards. At
times he looked as if he thought Grime had
left the ring and gone up to the corner pub.
Only in the last round did Sammy reveal any
semblance of fighting. Grime showed only
occasional flashes of his old form. Each boy
scaled 9st. 211 b.
Footbrawl
In the Rugby Union match between
Queensland and N.S.W. at Sydney Cricket
Ground on Saturday, the first since 1919, the
home side won by 47 (11 tries, 7 goals) to 16
(2 tries, 2 goals, 2 p. goals). It was an honor-
able defeat. For 10 years Queensland has lain/
in the Egyptian darkness of the Rugby League,
and only the visitors’ captain, Waratah Law-
ton, has had experience of match play under
the amateur code until this season. Against
a side which has proved itself at home and
abroad as worthy to rank in the world’s
best half-dozen, the comparative neophytes
made a splendid showing, and satisfied the
14,000 spectators that the Union will come to
its own again in Queensland. The game
bristled with attractive football. The lighter
Queensland forwards stood up to the oppo-
sition, and in the close work and with
the ball on the ground excelled them, though
in the closing stages superior weight told its
tale. The backs gave evidence of good coach-
ing, and up till half time, when scores were
18-13 against them, impressed greatly, their
tackling being especially sound. N.S.W.
combination in the second spell was too much
for the tiring visitors. In P. Marsh, Queens-
land has a full back of much promise. The
star of the three-quarter line was the speedy
winger, C. McGhie, who kept even Grossman
under restraint, while Lawton, at five-eighth,
showed all his old mastery. In 11. Hama-
lainen and E. Thompson the visitors have
two forwards of high quality. Of the win-
ners, nine of them Waratahs, Alec Ross was
back to his best at full back, while Towers
at outside centre again made football magic,
presenting winger Eric Ford with four tries.
Grossman, more subdued than usual, converted
seven goals from 11 tries. Bartley, faced by
the formidable Lawton, maintained his repu-
tation. Of the forwards, .T. A. O’Connor
stood out as the soundest all-round worker,
some of his comrades seizing the opportunity
to “play pretty.” The next meeting of the
teams in Bi’isbane on June 1 should see the
Maroons a greatly improved side.
* * * *
The Rugby League game between unbeaten
South Sydney and Western Suburbs drew a
crowd of over 30,000 to Sydney Show Ground
on Saturday to see South scramble home
by 13 (3 tries, 2 p. goals) to 7 (a try and
2 field goals). Thei-e was not much in it,
scores being 7 all up to the finish, when South
landed a couple of tries. The game was
fierce and bitterly contested, West setting
themselves to break the Southern combina-
tion by spoiling tactics. The game developed
largely into a battle between the opposing
forwards, most of whom showed signs of the
fray at the finish. Bright spots were two fine
dropped goals from the field by West’s full
back McMillan and a grand dash down the
line by the sturdy little Southern winger
Finch, which resulted in a much-needed try.
Another hard go between St. George and
Glebe at Wentworth Oval saw the Saints
get home by 23-12, though there was less
difference than scores indicate. At North
Sydney, the local men had little trouble in
beating Balmain 19-10, while Newtown, also
at home on Marrickville Oval, subjected Uni-
versity to its sixth consecutive hiding, scores
being 12-5.
* * * *
Victoria’s chief League game on Saturday
was staged at Geelong, where the undefeated
seasiders met Collingwood, also unbeaten.
Showery weather kept the attendance down
to £21,000, but a £538 gate soothed the
committees. Though scores were fairly even
until the last quarter, the over-eagerness of
the Hubbites was no match for the cool
deliberation and precision of the ’Woodmen,
who finished with 85 points to Geelong’s 49.
If the Magpies can retain their present form
they should end the season .unbeaten; no
other team so far looks likely to extend
them. At Richmond the local men found
Footscray a tougher lot than anticipated,
and they had to go all they knew to win by
18 points—lo 3 to ’Scray’s 85. South and
Carlton staged one of their old-time battles,
but there was little science shown. Neither
team is in the class it used to adorn. In
the end the Blues won with 79 points to
South’s 73. Hawthorn has improved so much
that a little more devil and better staying
power w r onld put it in the first four. On
Saturday it held Essendon throughout, and
only lost by 70 points to ’Don’s 75. St.
Kilda piled up 117 points against Fitzroy’s
80, and Melbourne polished off North Mel-
bourne with 99 points to 41.
(Continued 6n page .£/.)
THE AMACHOOR
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The' Board of Control has decided that the 15
players in the next Australian cricket team for Eng-
land shall be paid £6OO apiece with an expense
allowance of 30s. a week —quite good going for
amateurs.”— Bulletin, 15/5/29.
’Tis fine, ’tis passing fine, to play the game
You love for love of it and not for gold,
To harvest plaudits and to earn acclaim,
Aye, and your country’s honor to uphold
Oh fierce-fought fields, in settings new
and old,
With never thought of lucre for your lure.
But still in one domain of sport, behold!
One may be paid and stay an amachoor.
It isn*t where the runner hurls his frame
O’er measured tracks, or boxers blithe and
bold
Punches at one another’s dials aim,
Or oarsmen their proficiency unfold;
Not on the golfing greens where balls are
holed,
Or where the footer champions goals secure;
In spheres like those pay makes the pro,
we’re told.
He mustn’t finger it, the amachoor.
They bar it where, with eager zeal aflame,
The tennis kings and queens their tourneys
hold,
And smash and drive and lob their way to
fame;
There he or she whose skill for cash is
sold
Will soon be listed as outside the fold,
And find it, like as not, hard to endure.
Yet in our noblest pastime (Board-con-
trolled)
He draws his pay straight out, the amachoor.
Who hinted humbug or imputed blame?
Nay, ’tis the sportsman’s paradise, for
sure,
Where still a stalwart from the gate may
claim
His bit, and, none the less and all the same,
Continue—glory be ! —an amachoor.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


How the Coal-Owners’ Proposals
Should Benefit All Classes
To reduce production costs and regain and re-establish our coal trade, the owners
formulated certain proposals. They included (on the assumption that Government
charges would be less) reduction of Owners’ profits and of wages. They were rejected
by the miners. Until all parties agree
on taking some steps to reduce the
selling price, the industry must continue
to languish.
r
ŕ
n
V
m
i
L
-V
7
z?
//
■/
Householder: Good heavens!
A smaller bill!
Householder’s General Mana-
ger : Yes dear. It’s the result
of cheaper coal.
The Boss (to Manager): Yes,
Mr. Jones, I agree. Cheaper
power will allow us to extend
in several directions. Put on
fifty more men at once.
Tram Guard: Penny back, ma’am. Two sections
is threepence now, not fourpence. Cheaper
coal —cheaper power —cheaper fares.
The Passenger (helplessly): Wellll
ŗ


Repairs.
“Our Hands Make Good Arms”
Firearms send C.O.D.
Ohhbsi
■■ n
WALTHER .22-CAL.
AUTOMATIC PISTOL
with a Barrel,
No license required for this model.
Magazine holds 13 long-rifle cartridges. Won-
derful accuracy to 100 yards. Ideal for motor-
car use on rabbits, etc., without getting out
of car.
Price, £7/15/- post free.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
Gunsmith, Importer of High-grade Firearms,
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
1438 Elizabeth Street (near Market
Street), Sydney.
Fishing Tackle to Tackle Fishing
FRANCE
IMARTELI
HiVV~>r mT
The only place in the world that
makes Cognac Brandy is the <
Cognac district of France.
TSAartelVs comes from Cognac only .
Martel l’s for Age and Quality.
MARTELLS
BRANDY
V%
m
Sil -Ns
\N?- ')
» ''
- M
N#
The Finest Gun Dogs
In England
are fed regularly on Ken-L-Ration, the
dog food supreme. Rich in food value.
FREE—Sample Tin sent to any address
in the Commonwealth.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from
W. C. SCHWAB
P. O. Box 1821, Melbourne
Ren-T -Ration
Footbrawl
“Hotliam”: The Victorian Football
League, being full of beans and ambition, has
resolved to spend some of the former in the
purchase of a building in Melbourne as the
permanent headquarters of the Australian
game. The building is a three-storey, one on the
corner of Spring-street and Flinders-lane,
about as central a spot as could be got for
the money, which is said to run over £20,000.
The place will be known after the League
takes over as Harrison House, in honor of
that H. C. A. Harrison who founded the
game and drew up its first code of rules.
Ms * * *
“Fitzcray”: Football in Melbourne is not
a game; it is a cult and a mighty fanatical
one at that. Rough play and Donnybrook
tactics by the barrackers are worse than ever
this year, and by the time the. semi-finals
come round at the present rate of going it
may be necessary to proclaim martial law.
St. Ivilda, which prides itself on its social
tone, pursued an umpire to earth in the
pavilion the other day, the unhappy man
only getting home by a short jump. The
previous week an overwrought supporter of
South Melbourne stunned St. Ivilda’s full-
back with a well-directed “gibber,” while
the female of the species, usually armed
with a pointed parasol, has also been re-
sponsible for several casualties.
M: * M= *
“Stand Off”: The N.S.W. Rugby Union
incurred the criticism of many of its best
friends recently by an exhibition of inde-
cision and weakness which is no credit to
it. In one case some players reported for
fighting were first suspended for a period, and
then, after wires had been pulled, let off with
a caution. Then a player of note was found
to be playing for a district other than that
for which he was residentially qualified. He
was told he was to play with the district he
lived in and refused. What was worse, his
club, whose officials included some individuals
of high standing in the community, backed
him, and threatened to withdraw unless
allowed their own way. The Union again
backed down, setting up a most unfortunate
precedent. The truth is that the system of
PUFF:-IvE HEARD tTS A ROUGH GAME?
MUFF:— Somewhat robust."
"YOU RUN Av B'Gj R\£.K. A ?
"slight:'
"But you might get hubt',' ?
"On NO / I NEVER GET HURT"
"How isthw"? „
* \V\ THE LEMOH BOV ,
Union control needs reorganising from top
to bottom if the downward drift of pre-war
days is not to be repeated.
* * *
Tom Welsby, president of the Queensland
Rugby Union, now in N.S.W. with the north-
ern State’s representative team, first came
to Sydney with a Queensland side in 18S2,
playing as a half-back in the first inter-State
match with N.S.W. when the Bananalanders
called themselves the Northern Rugby Union.
He kept up his interest' in the game in after
days, and when the amateur code was re-
vived in Brisbane last year, after passing in
its checks in 1919, was one of the principal
instigators of the resurrection. A prominent
figure in Queensland commercial life for
many years, his hobby is yachting and fish-
ing, and few men know Moreton Bay as well
as he. Indeed, it is said that every fish in
that wide expanse of water calls him by his
Christian name, and that he reciprocates.
m= * * *
“Swing th’ Boot” : N.S.W. Rugby League
is finding that in spite of special measures
taken to suppress rough play, the practice
is as bad as ever this season. Further, the
sport of baiting the umpire, once unusual
in Sydney, is becoming increasingly popular.
As a result, it has been found necessary at
certain suburban gi’ounds which have earned
notoriety to provide a specially enclosed lane
through which the official can flee when the
final whistle blows.
“Oxbridge”: The chief sufferer by the
return of the big Christian Brothers school
at Waverley (N.S.W.) to the Rugby Union
fold is the Sydney University League Club.
This gets few recruits from the Union G. P.
Schools, but the supply from the Brothers’
institution, which plays good football, has
been a great help. The club has now devised
a system of inter-faculty matches within the
University as a means of discovering new
talent. Better still to drop the game alto-
gether. A sport .bearing the professional
stamp has no place within the walls of a
university. Even America will not have
that.
* #
“Gate”: Australian football organisations
should shed tears of envy on perusal of some
recent American football statistics. The
game is almost entirely confined to the uni-
versities there, yet Illinois, quite a second-
rate affair compared with Prineetown or
Yale, made a net profit last season of
£60,000, 338,667 spectators turning up to
watch what is one of the dreai’iest and most
brutal games ever invented.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The passing of “Big
Bill” Tilden from the tennis limelight (B.
15/5/’29) was as inevitable as it is regret-
table. He had a wonderful run for six years
from 1920 until Lacoste and Australian J. O.
Anderson got the better of him in 1926.
There will always be argument as to who has
been the supreme figure in the game, and
Americans unreservedly plump for Tilden, as
Australians do .for Norman Brookes. Pro-
bably the daddy of them all was the English-
man 11. L. Doherty, who, with his brother
R.F., dominated the world of tennis for the
decade from 1897 to 1906.
Me Me * *
“Alphonse Crapaud”: France, which has
never really been itself since the Lenglen
turned professional, has been considerably
bucked of late over the discovery of a 16-
year-old flapper named Lelia Claude Anot,
who recently carried off the bacon at the
Sporting Club de Paris tournament. Lelia,
etc., is a daughter of Claude Anet, a leading
French writer on tennis and a one-time
champion of France. Like the imperious
Suzanne, she has been trained in tennis from
early childhood by her father, and all the
good judges say that the day is not far dis-
tant when she is going to make Helen Wills
sit up.
% $ ❖ #
“Corpo di Bacco”: Tennis players the
world over thrilled with delight the other
day when it was announced that Mussolini
had decided that the King of Italy should
make a baron of De Morpugo, the Italian
tennis champion. Further it was decreed
that he be appointed “Commissioner Unique”
with full authority over all matters connected
with tennis in the kingdom, including, of
course, a free hand with the castor-oil bottle.
We may yet see the principle extended.
Already a British cricket official has been
knighted. In Australia, promoters of pony
racing have been similarly honored. Tin 1
stalwarts of League football, the Stadium and
two-up have their claims to distinction
equally with tennis players. We may yet see
an Earl of Rushcutter’s Bay or a Viscount
Randwick in Debrett. This is an age of flux.
The Watermen
“C.Q.”: One of the humorous features of
the annual schools boatrace in Melbourne is
that several hundred additional adults go on
a Saturday night drunk. Probably none of
them has ever been to a G. P. School and
few may have known what it is to tug at an
oar. So it must be a case either of mob
psychology or of “any old excuse will do.”
# *
O. J. (“Ossie”) Wood, one of the best
rowing coaches whom N.S.W. has kuown,
sang a figurative swan song the other day,
when he announced his retirement after the
victory in the King’s Cup of his cherished
Mosman crew. He himself figured in the
State eight as a cox on three occasions, and
coached six N.S.W. crews, as well as helping
with the preparation of the famous A.I.F.
eight, which lifted the King’s Cup at Henley
in 1919.
* * * *
“Als Zwart”: Mosman has not been as in-
vincible as “Shrewsbury” would have us be-
lieve (B. 15/5/’29). In 1920 a Maoriland
crew came to Sydney, and what they did to
Mosman on the latter’s own water was a
shame. They defeated the Red and Whites
in the State Eights, and repeated the dose
in the. Challenge Eights at St. Ignatius Re-
gatta a week later. Further, they spilt up
into two fours and made Mosman and other
Sydney crews look like the small change from
a Scotsman’s subscription to the Temperance
Alliance.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: Queensland golfers are
particularly keen on games for ex-A.I.F.
men, there being no less than three annual
events held in Brisbane for these players.
It is now proposed to fonn an A.I.F. golf
club confined solely to those who took part
in the great adventure. The promoters do
not suggest that the club should acquire
links of its own, but that it should play its
matches against the various Brisbane or
other clubs on their courses. The idea is
catching on, and the next step should be the
inauguration of matches between A.I.F.
teams from the various States.
Me * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: That South African Hindu
mentioned as an entrant for the big European
golf championships is not the only native
of India's coral strand to show form on the
links. If Ranjitsinghi had not been so ob-
sessed with cricket, he would have been in
the first flight of amateur golfers—he is
still far from being a front marker. Another
notable was the Punjabi Malk Singh, who
played for Oxford against Cambridge before
and after the Great War, at which he at-
tended. Doubtless there are many others,
but social distinctions keep many of them
out of the big Indian tourneys, and on this
side nothing is heard of them.
* * * *
“Swing th’ Boot” : It isn’t only the foot-
ball referee who faces risks and incurs con-
tempt (B. 8/5/’29). A recent happening in
Britain indicates that even the golf adjudi-
cator is not sacred to an aggrieved player.
In a match between Compston and Havers,
two most eminent professionals, the former
was stymied, and appealed to the ref. for per-
mission to move his ball, claiming he was in
“casual water.” He was refused, and in his
wrath swept away the water in front of the
ball, ignoring the decision, and incurring the
loss of the hole. Havers did not claim, how-
ever, and the matter was allowed to pass,
the ump. no doubt considering discretion the
better part of his job. He, by the way, was
Lord Justice Atkin, of the High Court of
Scotland.
Hs He H*
“Hoylake”: Walter Hagen, who got an
unholy hiding and dropped a £5OO stake into
the bargain when Compston beat him 18 and
17 in England last year, intends to get
square. He has challenged Compston to meet
him for a £lOOO wager in a series of three
matches on different courses in England, and
the Englishman has accepted. ITagen hardly
had a fair spin last time, for he was only
a few days off the boat. Best out of
three wall be a more reliable test than a
single match, in which the luck is always
liable to favor one man at the expense of the
other, who has no subsequent chance of re-
covery.
* * * *
“The Mcllaggis” : An unusual case was re-
ported the other day when a N.S.W. asso-
ciate was disqualified for using a steel-shafted
club in a competition. Under the firman of
St. Andrews, which all British peoples hear
and obey, the steel shaft, though, permitted
in America, simply isn’t the thing, and,
though few know it, the split-cane shaft,
another Yankee device, is also banned. The
first threatens the earnings of the many
British professionals who add considerably
to their incomes by repairing wooden-shafted
clubs. The other is considered an artificial
aid to greater length, which seems to rather
stretch the point. It would have been as
logical if the Marylebone 0. C. had, forbidden
the use of cane-handled bats when these
superseded the old one-piece wooden waddies
of the long ago.
* * * *
“Delia”: Cases of swallows and similar
small fowl being struck by golf balls are
comparatively common, but Maoriland has
supplied something new. On the Shirley
links recently two men drove off in opposite
directions down parallel fairways. Each
hooked his shot, with the result that the
balls veered towards each other and collided
in mid-air. Anyone with a mathematical
turn of mind might like to calculate _ the
odds against this happening again within a
thousand years. The diameter of a golf ball
is a trifle over an inch, and a head-on col-
lision between two tiny pills of that size
with all the atmosphere of Maoriland to
move in was a fluke of the rarest.
,j. $ * *
“Divot Digger”: The countless turf de-
stroyers who compose the vast majority of
golfers throughout the world sighed with re-
lief when they heard St. Andrews had de-
cided against the adoption of the dreaded
lighter ball advocated by a coterie of the
leading American players, on the ground
that the ball now in use makes the game too
simple. The St. Andrews decision need not
bind American players, but if. they persist
in the adoption of the light pill, the inter-
national matches are likely to come to a full
stop unless all the players consent to use the
old one. To folk used to one kind, the
change over would not make for good play.
Perhaps a compromise may be arrived at leav-
ing the new projectile to the adepts and the
old one to the noble army of also-rans. The
principle applies in the English billiard cham-
pionship, where ivory balls are insisted on,
whereas not one player in 10,000 has ever
gone through a game with them.
“Bee-line”: Dewar Cup coursing trophy,
to be taken for good, has to be won three
times, or twice consecutively. So far the
only courser to shove two feet into the uten-
sil is Buckley. Carter Bros, won last year,
and, in an effort to land it, nominated four
starters in last week’s event. Buckley had
two going. Mostly their dogs removed each
other, and ended by going down to out-
siders. Final was fought by two 100 to 1
shots. Irish Confetti winning narrowly.
Owner W. A. Bates took £9OO to £9 at
card-call.
(Continued on next page.)


COMMONWEALTH a WAR LOAN
Due 31st May, 1929
OFFER OF
CONVERSION
Do you hold Stock or Bonds in this Loan?
If so, you may convert into a new Commonwealth Loan, carrying
interest (FREE OF STATE INCOME TAX) at per cent, per annum
and repayable on July 15, 1939.
You will not lose even one day’s interest on your money if you
convert —the interest will run straight on.
Full particulars and application forms from—
Banks and Savings Banks and Members of recognised Stock Exchanges.
CONTINUE YOUR INVESTMENT IN THE SAFEST OF ALL
SECURITIES.
Commonwealth Treasury, Canberra.
EARLE PAGE, Treasurer.
Car and Cycle
“Dummy”; Pennsylvania classifies the
drivers it licenses, and has published some
Particulars on the subject. The most care-
ful of all drivers are the deaf mutes, of
whom there are 177 holding licenses. Next
come 980 in the “deaf” class, while there
are 7656 licensees “incapacitated.” The
percentage of accidents due to these drivers
is out of all proportion smaller than that
of folk credited with being in full possession
of their faculties and the exact complement
of limbs, eyes and ears. It is interesting
to note that none of the deaf mutes are
women, though one would think these would
make admirable “back-seat” drivers.
$ :i= *
“P.L.8.” (Lond.) : "Wembley” slips when
he says dirt track motor-cycle racing is on
the wane in England (B. 20/2/’29). Crowds
at the opening meetings in London during
the last week in March totalled over 140,000
at four tracks, and by June there will be 12
tracks in full swing in the London area as
against nine last season, one of the newies
being Wembley Stadium, hitherto devoted to
the dogs and football. Frank Arthur, of
Queensland, is the outstanding rider of the
season so fur, having beaten both the Ameri-
can and English champions in a series of
races, while Billy Lamont (N.S.W.), Vic.
Huxley (Q.) and Ron Johnson (W.A.) have
also done well. The game is regarded here
as a purely Australian sport, and is bring-
ing a good deal of cash .and kudos to Aus-
tralian riders.
* si: :Js *
“Sprocket”: A long motor-cycle journey
lies ahead of J. Gill, a Bradford motor engi-
neer, who started last week from London
for Sydney with a side-car outfit. The route
will be via Bagdad, Singapore and Port Dar-
win. Gill’s companion, one P. Cockerell,
who was to have travelled in the side-car,
thought better of it at the last moment and
pulled out. Gill expects to take at least 12
months over liis 17,000-mile trip, which is
intended to advertise the make of cycle he is
riding.
■•f * --!: *
“Whizz” : Some fine motor-cycle runs were
seen at the recent meeting held by the
Queensland branch of the A.C.U. on the
ocean beach at Southport, south of Brisbane.
The sands provide a magnificent run for miles
at low tide, and are as level as a billiard
table. The time tests were made with a
flying start over a quarter-mile strip, a run
each way, and the mean times of the two
taken. The fastest run was made by G. B.
Hopper, who clocked 101.1 m.p.li. on a
Brough Superior in the over 600 c.c. class,
and averaged 91.23 m.p.h. for the two trips.
E. Odium, on a Harley Davidson, was close
behind with 89.6 m.p.h., while there were
six over 80 m.p.h. in the other classes.
The fine Queensland beach is worth the atten-
tion of motor-car speedsters when the Aus-
tralian speed championship comes into being,
giving the Westralians their Lake Perkolili
in.
•1*
“Toe-clip”: Looking back on road-racing
experiences in Maoriland a quarter of a
century ago I wonder at some of the risks
we youngsters took. Conditions were hair-
raising enough in the North Island, where
the roads were bad and the courses moun-
tainous, but strangely enough the most thrills
were packed into the dead-level 100 miles
between Timaru and Christchurch, in the
5.1., especially in a rainy season. Dozens
of water-races had to be crossed, and if they
were too deep to dash through—-as they
often were —one had to do a sort of tight-
rope dash over the plank provided for foot
passengers. Some of these alleged bridges
were a scant six inches, wide. The best test
of the nerves, however, was the crossing of
the Selwyn railway-bridge, a long, lofty
structure. The cyclist tiavelled on three
little four-inch planks, laid abreast, with
a half-inch gap between, and in places a
length of plank would have dropped away,
necessitating a very abbreviated curve. Yet
nobody tumbled off.
“Murkah”: Gear ratios are a matter of
leverage, and depend on the manner of
man who is going to wind thc-m. A weighty,
powerful rider who depends on sheer bullock-
ing strength naturally uses a high gear.
“Flugger Bill” Martin, who introduced the
high gear to Australia, was that type of
man, and generally pedalled something in
the vicinity of a century. Lighter, less-
powerful men compulsorily use a smaller
ratio, or leverage, but compensate for this
by winding it faster. Generally, gears are
larger now, because the smooth cement and
Oregon; tracks of to-day offer less resistance
to the passage of the tyres than the com-
paratively rough asphalt of yore.
X X X *
“Wheel”: Jack Standen, the ex-amateur
and Olympic cyclist, has lodged an appeal
against his disqualification by the Inter-
national Cyclists’ Union with the N.S.W.
League of Wheelmen, which body has con-
sented to hear him. The facts are admitted.
Standen was disqualified at the instance of
the Olympic Federation for flouting his bond
not to ride as a professional within two
years of his return to Australia. He added
to his repudiation by claiming his privilege
as a minor, a fact that alienated any sym-
pathy that w T as coming to him On that
basis, the International Union, which con-
trols professional as well as amateur cycling,
had no other course but to disqualify the
defaulter, and no grounds exist for an appeal
to any other organisation.
Miscellaneous
“Let Go”: Chinese poker holds sway
amongst card gamblers in North Queensland.
All nationalities play the game, but Chinese
and Japs predominate, and wise whites
demand “no talkee talkee.” The sky is the
limit as a general rule, and big wagers
are often bet on a pair of deuces. One
good feature about the game is that money
talks; it’s a case of cash in the centre or
no bet.
* * * *
“Third Base” : Sporting boards of control
seem born to trouble. Both the cricket body
and that professing to run the Rugby League
are constant objects of criticism by their
subordinate organisations, and the latest to
face the music is the Australian Baseball
Council. Of course, N.S.W. started the
trouble, some of the State delegates recently
requesting their organisation to call a special
general meeting with a view to investigating
the financial history of the last inter-State
carnival. The request was refused, with the
result that the disgruntled ’bailers are play-
ing up in a fashion one would hardly expect
even from bowlers.
* sit sit si:
“Bumpkin” : To popularise deep-sea cruis-
ing the Royal St. Hilda Yacht Club pro-
poses to revive the Melbourne-Tasmania race
next Boxing Day. The event hasn’t been
decided for 30 years, and that occasion was
the last as well as the first. It was won by
Newland’s Thistle. The event will be open
to all States. A likely competitor will be
Elliot Giles, who took his Utiekah for a
10,000-mile cruise of the South Seas a couple
of years ago. No yachtsman knows the diffi-
culties and dangers of the trip better than
Giles, who has crossed Bass Strait several
times and in all sorts of weather. He is a
master at Melbourne Grammar.
❖ $ $ ❖
“Backwoodsman” : Once-cannibal Fiji an-
nounces that it will this year hold its annual
bowling tournament early in July, and Aus-
tralian bowlers are invited to get in early
to give the hosts an idea of the crowd they
will have to accommodate. The big event
will be the Pacific pennant, between two
rink teams, only one to represent each asso-
ciation. A good many Australians went over
last year and had a most enjoyable time
among the hospitable Islanders. Indeed, the
only complaint made was by some dis-
gruntled Victorian, and was to the effect
that the local cows habitually used the club
greens as a bedroom and were very careless
in their habits in addition.
CHARLES DONALD, a great Victorian
oarsman in the past, who has added to
his fame as a coach. Crews taken in
hand by him since he gave up active
rowing have won 112 events.
“Si Anu” : The barracking of Larwood in
Melbourne raised a quaint echo in Malaya.
An indignant partisan wrote to a local paper
suggesting that “as a sign of our displea-
sure” no invitation should be issued for an
Australian team to visit the F.M.S. Public
opinion promptly sat on the humorless one.
* * x *
“Gate” : Those objecting to the Board of
Control’s decision to send a treasurer to
assist the manager of the next Australian
team in England (B. 15/5/’29) should re-
call the fact that the board’s constitution
provides for the appointment of a treasurer
on these tours, and has done so from the
beginning. The sums taken are increasing
every trip, and the handling and apportion-
ment of them is becoming too much for a
manager with many other duties on his
hands. It may be taken in this regard that
the new official will certainly not be an
active player liable to be called upon to
take the field, but a one-man-one-job
appointee.
CYRIL TOWERS, the Randwick and
Waratah centre three-quarter, whose
form this season ranks him with the
finest players in the position Aus-
tralia has produced.
“Ride Off” : According to Curtis Skene, the
N.S.W. polo enthusiast who recently took a
batch of Australian polo ponies to Hawaii
and California in conjunction with others, and
played matches against the leading Califor-
nian teams, the game is already “commer-
cialised” in the States. The grounds are
first class, and the clubs deliberately cater
to the gate in arranging the competitions,
polo being ,a big draw with all and sundry.
The ponies taken over by the Australian
party sold well, but the Californians will
only buy made mounts. Green ponies, which
bring good prices in Australia from men
who are willing and competent to set about
their training, are not wanted in America,
which likes its polo ponies as it likes most
of its food, all made up and ready for con-
sumption.
t- * *
“Blue Chalk”: Willie Smith, the English
billiard player anfl ex-champion now in Aus-
tralia, is to be given a gallop against some
of the minor cracks before meeting the
Lindrum-McConachy combination who will
prove his chief opponents. J. R. Hooper, ex-
Australian amateur champion, will tackle
him at the end of the month, and after that
Fred Smith, the professional star of years
ago and still a fine player, will give him a
chance to warm up, Smith conceding both of
them a flying start. Though he has not taken
part in the last two championships owing
to a dispute, Smith is probably the best of
the English billiard professionals, and should
give Australian audiences a few useful tips
before he has finished with them.
X- if *
“Ula”: Answering “Long Rest” (B.
8/5/’29)-, the world’s record score for snooker
is 147, the maximum points scorable apart
from those gained by snookers. A. Mann,
a Birmingham pro., is the holder. He
knocked up the score only last year, and it
stands recorded. Only once has the feat
been achieved. Mann’s best break was 56.
The world’s record break is said to be 100,
put up by Englishman .Toe Davis. If, as
“Long Rest” states, Maorilander E. O’Donog-
hue scored 134 in the one visit to the table,
he is now the holder, and his break is some-
thing to brag about. Frankie Smith (Aus-
tralia) bettered Davis’s break with a 116,
but it appears that it wasn’t recognised.
Arthur Shepherd, pro. at Melbourne’s C.T.A.
Club, can claim the world’s record break of
blacks. He bagged 11 consecutive “eights”
(88).
“Spike”: Maoriland is sending a strong
side of seven Uni. athletes to Sydney.
The team will include E. K. East-
wood and J. N. Goodson, sprinters;
F. S. Ransome, who dead-heated in
the last Australasian 440yds. hurdles; E.
B. Taylor for the long distances ; W. Bain
and O. C. Harley for the middle events;
and H*. A. Henderson as shot-putter. Ran-
some will look after the long-jumping as well
as the hurdles.
Business, Robbery, etc.
C.Q.”; The Brunswick (Vic.) inventor,
G. A. Wragge, has completed negotiations
with the Italian Government for the adop*
tion of his compound wing for aeroplanes.
The device aims at stability and was per-
fected by him in U.S.A. In due course, no
doubt, the Australian authorities will pay
heavily for the patent rights.
* * * *
“Lead Bin”: However much is taken from
the Broken Hill mines there seems to be
always a little more to get. The latest
development is that the million tons of slag
dumped on the Proprietary from the smelters
of years ago has been found to be of value
for tile-glazing and -fronting, and is being
sent to Sydney in small consignments.
# * * *
“Frigid”: No need to go to Burma or
Papua for teak (B. S/5/’29) when the grey
teak of Queensland is equal to anything im-
ported. Once seasoned, it does not shrink
or swell, is impervious to white ants and
difficult to burn, which is more than can be
claimed for the imported article. Local boat-
builders know its value for uncovered decks.
Where it is plentiful it is used in joinery,
,such as window-sashes, doors, sills, verandah
flooring and weatherboards. In waggon
bolsters it will give 40 years of service, while
Indian teak has to be replaced three or four
times.
* * * *
“Lens”: “Roomy roof floor, ideal for
photographic studio,” was an ad. that hit
my eye the other day. Time was when the
photographer had to climb to the roof to
intercept the sun for the development of his
plates. To-day artificial light is used in
all processes, and the camera business could
be carried on as well in a cellar as up aloft;
yet the habit ingrained by necessity survives.
A photographer who tried a ground-floor
studio told me that he found it a failure,
simply because the public still clings to the idea
that the roof is the correct place for the
camera art. A hundred years hence, when
the crude beginnings of photography are
quite forgotten, the reason why portrait-
seekers have to take the lift to the studio on
the 45th floor may be made a subject for in-
quiry.
* * * *
“J.D.L.”; Maoriland is the rightful and
undisputed owner of the Ross Sea and the
islands which lie in or around it, yet
she allows the treasures of this region to
bo carried away by Norway, at the other
end of the world. Quite recently the Nor-
wegian factory ship C. A. Larsen left Wel-
lington with a cargo of oil and other whale
products valued at 1340,000, all the result
of less than three months’ whaling. There
are few goldmines to-day that can show
a production of £340,000 in three months,
and the number of men employed by the
Larsen, and her sister ships is no greater
than is required for the working of an
ordinary mine. There was a time when
M.L. was the centre of a valuable whaling
industry; nowadays she lets all this wealth
be carried away from underneath her nose,
through sheer lack of enterprise.
i'f t- :!: *
SYDNEY RADIO SHOW.
Crowds—so,ooo or so altogether—have
looked over Sydney’s latest radio exhibition,
run by the Electrical and Radio Develop-
ment Association at the Town Ilall. It was
a great show, in which the goods could be
both seen and heard, for broadcasting w r as
arranged by Amalgamated Wireless, Stand-
ard Telephones and Cables, and the Burgin
Electric Co., with the aid of 2FC and 2BL.
One of the striking things of a generally
progressive show was the advance made in
receiver design, demonstrated by the preva-
lence of “all-electric” sets over battery-
operated models, by the number of receivers
employing single-dial control, and by the in-
creased number of moving-coil type of
speakers incorporated inside the receiver
cabinet or separate. Receiving valves have
made remarkable strides in the last 12
months. The screened-grid valve designed
for radio amplification, the five-electrode
valve used for power amplification, and the
various types of A.C. operated valves which
obtain their filament current indirectly from
the house supply all merit special mention.
The increasing popularity of the radio-
gramophone was demonstrated by the large
number of receivers equipped for the repro-
duction of records, as well as the receiving
of broadcast programmes. The gramophone
portion is usually an electrically-driven
motor. The reproducer is replaced by an
electrical pick-up which converts the vibra-
tions imparted to the needle into minute
electrical impulses. These impulses are
amplified as they pass through the successive
stages in the receiver, and are finally realis-
tically reproduced on the loud speaker.
The amateur section held fewer entries
than it did last year, but still there was a
remarkable display of transmitters and re-
ceivers. Also, there was a television set—
enterprising rather than successful.


I
o
2 2
v -
the Ultimate among
cars of its Class
Ue Soto stx—4-Door Sedan
1 1Si
S 3
18
fn
f?.
- '*§Mk
J
b
iiiWJl
I
r
• /
"2
1
m
m
&
0
mmm
*
■
bJ
O
N
>
>
c
LLUi
I HE DE SOTO SIX is unmistakably
the ultimate among cars of its class.
It is so obviously a car of character
and breeding. It is generously en-
dowed with every attribute that
spells greater value. The De Soto
Six could come only from a maker
with the broad experience and
great resources of Chrysler.
Drive the new De Soto Six your*
self—note its acceleration, smooth*
ness, flexibility and speed—observe
its roominess, its riding ease, and
the perfection of every feature that
gives luxury and comfort then
and only then—will you appreciate
fully why De Soto Six is rated the
outstanding value in its field.
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales .. Grenville Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Victoria Automobiles Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland .... Stradbroke Motors, Ltd., Brisbane
South Australia .... Dominion Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
Western Australia . . . Wentworth Motors, Ltd., Perth
New Zealand . New Zealand Motors, Ltd., Wellington
T asmania
Metro Motors Pty., Ltd., Hobart


r
naMEs
I To Math
AH Linen
Indispensable fO every Household.
CASH'S NAMES# are destincrive,
yec near fadeless and durable*
<sV3'lVZ£jtLarn&-
Sold by all
Best Drapers
Actual Sire, Style No, 6
Trices:
I2dz, 7/6.
6dz, 5/6. |
3dz, 3/6
''A few $1 itches and (hey 're on, *
Write for Name Style Circular to
3. & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt St., Richmond, Melb
\^shin<£
Ribbons
Lingerie
E
Um
Jatnaualtt
Boys’ and Youths’
Stout Black Year-
ling Oxford Shoe.
7x9 .... 10/11
10 x 13 .. 11/9
Ixs .... 13/9
Tan Yearling
1/- extra.
lUnbs foz Catalog X
TWO MENS SHOE STORES
135 KING STREET, fr 316 GEORGE STREET
The cen/ne of Queens/anc/s
' cbsftngussfocf Soc/o/ Li/e.
WoM
Vs RDICta
BRISBANE
ŕ
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780—10 Lines.
Mebourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] C[?] [?]for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, L[?]
[?] so M[?]
“The Five-o’clock Girl,” who made her
appearance at the Royal on Saturday night,
commences her romantic career in a dry-
eleaner’s shop. So the Locking begins in
a simple way, graduates, as the plot thickens,
into the luxurious atmosphere of the Kit
Kat-Club, and winds up in a blaze of glory
with a wedding. Early in the piece the
ballet capers in blue and white check ging-
hams, crimson feather belts and black patent-
leather shoes. Later two dozen lassies dance
in white chiffon evening gowns of the latest
cut, and the same bunch in the last scene
wears flounced white feather skirts attached
to glistening bodices, with coronets on brows.
In the restaurant scene the flame and gold
draperies of the chorus ladies and their
green and gold head adornments blend well
with a gorgeous color scheme. At the final
curtain Alfred Frith introduced the leading
members of the co., and there were posies
for all.
The audience, though forced by ttft cold
to remain well wrapped, looked brighter than
usual, for white fur coats were much to the
fore, and quite a number of stylish folk
favored magpie covering of black velvet with
white fox collar and cuffs. In the li.S. were
the 11. 11. Smiths, Mrs. P. Glass, Mrs. H.
Whiting, Mr. and Mrs. Edward Bates, Jean
Murdoch and Mrs. Tliring. The gallery rose
in glad welcome when May Beattie took a
seat in the front-row stalls. The boxes were
mainly occupied by members of the Tait
families.
The secondary girls’ schools provided the
talent for a pageant of world history at the
Town Hall. The object was to collect funds
for the Home Craft Hostel, and the show
was organised by the Association of Head-
mistresses. Miss Collisson directed the per-
formance, which had choral backing from St.
Paul’s Cathedral Choir and pupils of Mer-
ton Hall G.G.S., under Dr. Floyd. Con-
siderable attention was given to costumes and
color effects. Miss Jessie Webb saw that
the dresses were true to period, and Mrs. Ellis
Davies was wardrobe mistress. So cleverly
managed was the grouping of figures that
the cherry-red robe of Man, who was repre-
sented by Eric Donald, was always the domi-
nating hue. Of the tableaux, most effective
was that of the Nativity. The Madonna,
with her powder-blue veil falling over a rose-
pink robe, and the angels, arrayed in mauve
with sparkling golden wings, might have
stepped from a stained-glass window. The
Northcote Symphony Orchestra, under Basil
Farrell, supplied music for march and in-
tervals.
At Erica Morini’s final recital here she
dressed to suit her dark beauty, looking more
youthful than ever in a quartette of amber
tulle frills attached to a tight bodice of gold
tissue. Stacks of flowers began piling up
around her golden slioon during the first lull
in the movements of the Tschaikowsky Con-
certo, and continued to accumulate after she
had played her last encore number, Schubert’s
“Ave Maria.” In the audience were Mrs,
Harry Emmerton and, her niece, Mary
Emmerton, Mrs. E. M. Pearce, in a black
and silver embroidered coat; Mrs. Albert
Miller, Dr. Georgina Sweet, pianist Rita
Hope and painter Aileen Dent.
Miss Nancy Murdoch, who became a for-
midable wielder of driver, mashie, cleek and
putter in the Apple Isle before she came to
this city, held her annual party-day as captain
of the associate members of the Metropolitan
Golf Club last week, when there was a
flag tournament and a putting contest.
Sport suits and gay felt millinery made
splashes of color in the sunlight against a
sward that was as daintily verdant as a
bowling green. Mrs. Reg Wilson and Miss
N. Allan were tournament prize-winners, and
Mrs. Dallas Smith, hon* sec. of Woodlands
Club, won the putting competition. The pre-
sident of the associates, Mrs. Guy Berling,
was a competitor. Among *the spectators
were some Tasmanian visitors and Mrs.
Murdoch.
The star at the evening entertainment
organised by Xavier College to celebrate its
crew’s H’ead-of-the-River victory Was Arch-
bishop Mannix. He told how lie witnessed
the tussle from a soap-box on Yarra bank.
Prior to the race he had thought that nothing
would have induced him to mount a box
on the stream’s fringe, but once having taken
the step he found it not difficult to lift him-
self to a higher box, which he shared with
a Scot. More wonderful still was the fact
that the Scot had paid for the box. For
more than an hour before the Arch.’s arrival
the prep, school boys w r ere holding the fort
and arousing the envy of the senior boys
by their singing of the school songs and
selections from “Piiiafore.” Dr. Mannix
was in time to witness the presentation to
the crew of the oars used in the winning
boat and of a tiller to cox Fakhry. and to
hear that the souvenir for Mark Shea, the
coach, was to be a grandfather’s clock.
A civic ball at Fitzroy Town Hall, an
event of last week, swelled the coffers of
St. Vincent’s Hospital. Mayor and Mayoress
Foley, who were chief organisers, did the
honors. Kathleen Tiglie, in fluffy frills of
tourmaline pink, expressed the thanks
of the institution by presenting Mrs. Foley
with a posy that blended nicely with the
recipient’s gown of pastel green with tracery
of gold beads. G. Honeycombe and F. G.
Trivett were lion. secs, of the hop, which
was attended by about 500, and A. Munsor
tallied up the takings. Mrs. P. Lucini had a
sparkle of jet on her gown of black lace,
and Mrs. A. Munsor’s pale blue frock twink-
led with crystal.
The City Council’s gardens and hot-houses
contributed their best to a two-days’ horti-
cultural show in the Town Hall, the gate-
money of which was divided between the
Women’s Hospital and the Almoners’ branch
of the Melbourne Hospital. Around the
maple-panelled banquet hall in groups were
pots of foliage plants; ferns and a mass of
mammoth colored chrysanthemums ranged
about rare white blooms. Cyclamens and
winter begonias, rose and red, with green
slipper orchids, made a central island of
color. A collection of rare blooms was offered
for sale at a stall conducted by Mrs. If. I.
Cohen, Mrs. W. S. Kent Hughes, Mrs. Edgar
Dye, Mrs. Hepburn, Mrs. J. S. Oliver and
other hospital workers. The roses, marigolds,
dahlias and chrysanthemums were mostly
from Mrs. Oliver’s garden at Essendon; and
the crimson-berried holly came from Mace-
don. Mayor Luxton put other civic duties
aside for a few minutes to launch the charm-
ing show.
The Grice lady entertained many friends
at four-o’clock tea on Friday at her South
Yarra home to meet again her daughter Mrs.
Scriven, whose squadron-leader husband will
be stationed here for the next two years.
The chatting was done in the combined glow
of Iceland poppies and firelight, for the day
was grey and chill. The hostess’s black
satin gown was relieved with ecru lace, and
the returned traveller chose an ensemble of
black with mole fur and a brown felt hat.
A fringed gown of reddish-brown georgette
was the choice of Elsa Grice. Among other
guests were the Elder lady, Mrs. W. ,T. T.
Clarke, Mrs. Russell Grimwade and Mrs. 11.
Power.
Lafayette here pictures William Mallin-
son, who waves a baton over the Malvern
Symphony Orchestra. Melbourne-born, he
started his musical education as a student
of the fiddle
under the late
Alberto Z el-
man. Passing
on to the Uni.
Con., he con-
tinued his
studies under
J. B. North,
and delved
into harmony
and counter-
point, winning
sundry Or-
mond exhibi-
tions. On com-
pletion of his
course in 1922
he w r as ap-
pointed to the
staff of the
Con. as tea-
cher of the
violin and
conductor o f
the orchestra} class, from which are recruited
players for the Uni. Symphony Orchestra.
He mobilised his own instrumental body at
Malvern in 1927, and the M. 5.0., after a
few months’ training, won honors at the Bal-
larat competitions. In his student days at
the Con. Mr. Mallinson qualified for the Uni.
Rifles, rowed in the extra-collegiate eights
at Henley and secured a full blue as centre-
forward in inter-Varsity football for three
years. He represented the State in hockey
matches for a lengthy period, and was for a
time lion. sec. of the Hockey Association.
The Malvern orchestra is giving a series of
four concerts this season; the first has
already taken place.
At. their breaking-up for the winter vaca-
tion the pupils of the Roman Catholic
Ladies’ College performed a Christmas
mystery play, “Eager Heart,” with suitable
music. Gertrude Healy steered a youthful
string orchestra through the overture to “The
Messiah,” and the “Pastoral Symphony,” and
an unseen choir sang carols. Mauricette,
eldest daughter of Dr. and Mrs. MacGilli-
cuddy, displayed an attractive singing voice
in the name role, and the other young people
said their lines clearly and intelligently,
under the direction of Eileen O’Keefe. Arch-
bishop Mannix handed out the prizes, and
was received by a guard of houor of prefects
in white frocks and pale gold cloaks. Pattie
Breheny read an address from the pupils.
Strella Wilson, who made her last bow
here in “The Vagabond King,” and goes to
seek fresh laurels abroad, was farewelled
by former and present students of the Albert-
street Con., where she was once a student
under Mary Campbell. Fritz Hart said nice
things about the guest of honor, and Miss
Wilson, whose pink frock showed beneath a
black satin cloth coat, skunk collared, topped
by felt millinery, received a tooled leather
wallet. Lilian Crisp and Adele Crane, of
the “Student Prince” co., came in for some
of the limelight—they are also Albert-street
Con. graduates.
A Ruskin camera made this picture of
Ma u d Mae-
Leod, of Ben-
dig o, who
toured Ta s-
mania (till the
L aunceston
floods called a
halt) with the
Beresford
Fowler A r t
Theatre Play-
ers. She won’t
be able to vote
for a year or
two, but she
has played
leading partsin
Galsworthy’s
“W indo ws”
nnd'Noel Cow-
a r d’s “R a t
Trap” and
“Vortex” to
the satisfaction
of the critics.
The opening recital of pianist William
Murdoch and singer Harold Williams at-
tracted a good crowd to the Town Hall,
and the audience was not disappointed. The
two Australian artists are top-notchcrs in
their respective spheres. Among the first-
nighters were Mrs. Abert Miller, the Allen
lady and daughter Biddy, Professor Laver
and Nellie Veitch.
Captain and Mrs. .T. B. Stevenson poured
tea at their Toorak home last week for the
double purpose of farewelling Rear-Admiral
and Mrs. Napier and welcoming Rear-
Admiral Evans and his wife, who had stepped
off the Mongolia on their way to Sydney. The
hostess, who handed posies of rare blooms to
Mrs. Napier and Mrs. Evans, wore a gown
of georgette and lace in sunburn toning,
with cedar-brown felt millinery. Gladioli
and giant chrysanthemums made an effective
setting. Mrs. Napier’s frock and hat were
beige pink, and the new arrival, Mrs. Evans,
fair-haired and blue-eyed, added to her floral
crgpe-de-Cliine gown a coat and felt hat
to match her eyes. Mrs. Rowland Hope
(from Geelong) and Ainslie Williams sang
after the kettle had been boiled on the
closed-in verandah, after which the 250
guests inspected the Stevensons’ lovely gar-
den.
Fourteen of the Wesley Old Boys were
hosts last week at a dance which was a
sort of pendant to the IJead-of-the-River
contest. Ormond ITall glowed in purple and
gold, and though Wesley was defeated there
was no display of sackcloth and ashes.
Instead, the Wesley crew fraternised with
their conquerors from Xavier. Among hon-
ored guests were the head of Wesley, L. A.
Adamson; the president of the Old Col-
legians’ Association, G. E. Dickenson, with
Mrs. Dickenson in satin of sunset pink glow;
and Wesley Ince, a past-president, who was
accompanied by his wife clad in black lace
and silk net.
She who used to be Lorna Wells, of Ben-
digo, is another of our matrimonial exiles
to Colombo. She was married in Melbourne
recently to James Crichton ; and the occasion
was celebrated afterwards at the home of
her friend Mrs. Evans Pearse. The bride,
who is the daughter of the late Dr. Selfe
Wells and of Mrs. Wells, topped a fawn-lace
frock with a russet-brown hat.
Two maids in pale-green lace with a glow
of pink satin beneath, topped by felt hats,
supported Essie, only daughter of James
Ogilvie, when she exchanged vows with
Laurence Barnett, of Franklin, Tasmania.
The bride was arrayed in white satin
splashed w T ith diamente and seed pearls, and
wore a veil of old lace.
Mary, younger daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Edward Bates of Balwyn, exchanged vows
last week with William McKail Geddes,
brother of her elder sister’s husband. The
Geddes clan hails from Auckland (M.L.). The
bride is a regular follower of the hounds
here, and a popular, pretty lass. A lace
veil flowed over her wedding gown of white
satin, which was finished with a deep hem
of tulle strapped with satin. Lorna Hiskens,
Beth Stuart and Nancy Cook, attendant
’maids, wore frocks of the hue of a La
France rose, uneven of hemline, with small,
close-fitting felt hats and posies all ablend-
ing. About 120 guests offered congratula-
tions at the Bates home, the chatelaine oi
Maleela contrasting a bouquet of crimson
roses with her black-lace draperies.
Flight-Lieutenant Gerald Packer’s mar-
riage to Maida, daughter of the E. E. Craw-
fords of Malvern, took place at the Armadale
kirk last week. The bride was arrayed in
white satin and tulle, and her sister Avis
stood by in similar attire, with a white
chiffon hat and a posy of pink carnations.
Anyone who wants to pick up the where-
withal necessary to furnish a country home
the size of the average ducal palace should
turn' up at Faraday-street, Carlton, to-
morrow. The George Chirnsides are sell-
ing the whole of the famous Werribee
Park furniture there ou that date. Customs-
Minister Gullett’s recent warnings about
“the danger of taking so-called antiques at
the value put on them by their owners”
does not apply here. Amongst other lots,
there are tJiree four-poster beds which may
be said to have an international reputation.
Most of the modern stuff was made in Scot-
land, whaur, as is weel kenned, the cabinet-
makers earn their siller.
The Oaklands Hunt Club was the first
out after the fox this season. About 50
huntsmen and women riders joined the chase
of nearly 10 miles around Moonee Ponds
creek from Sherbrook Park. E. C. Robert-
son, the new M.F.IT., who has followed this
sport for 30 years, was in the lead.
The other day one of the big city luneb-
and-tea firms got word that the unemployed
were likely to pay a visit. Orders were given
that the raid was to be met with kindness.
Places were laid for the uninvited to the
extent of 250; the waitresses cultivated a
Mona Lisa expression, the cash registers
were placed under armed guards—and all the
preparation was wasted. The expected fam-
ished and belligerent horde didn’t turn up.
Artist Harry McClelland and his sister
Nan, she in radiance of white and crystal,
staged a studio party at their mother’s home
at Flemington on Friday night to honor
Stephanie Deste, who is saying good-bye to
Australian audiences. Mr. McClelland’s
workshop is a picturesque place, built on the
lines of an old farm kitchen, with a
big open fireplace. Among the 60 guests
were Natalie Moya, of the “Young Wood-
ley” co., and her husband, Mr. Schjelderup,
who dabbles in art and is to hold a
show in this city; portraitist Bill Mclnnes,
many other wielders of the brush, several
literary folk and some Repertory players.
Between numbers of an excellent programme
of music, song and story there was jazz,
and the more sentimental visited the wishing-
well in the garden or roasted chestnuts over
the big Yule log. Edna Wyatt, Roma Morris
Mrs. E. Dyson, Roy Warren and Lindsay
Montgomery sang, and Terence Crisp, Stan-
ley Brookes and, of course, the guest of
honor did their bits. Harold Rogers and
Herbert Duke supplied accompaniments.
Sisters Purcell and Ilickie have sold Mena
House, in which they have very successfully
conducted a private hospital, and are looking
forward to holidays. Sister Hickie has de-
cided to sail to Maoriland to see a sister,
and her late partner hears the East a-calling,
and after a brief stay in the country will
take ship for China and there begin a world
tour.
The fur of the skunk, which hitherto has
been mostly used to adorn the feminine form,
is 'now being turned to domestic purposes.
One of the novelties at a recent London exhi-
bition was a skunk duster, which was demon-
strated to be almost as dust retentive as a
vacuum cleaner.
Mary, eldest daughter of knight Lennon
Raws and his lady, has promised to wed,
in the near future, James Waigfield, younger
son of the Rev. John and Mrs. Barnaby, of
Hawthorn.
Hilda Bridges, whose name has been
appearing of late attached to short stories
and serials, is over from the Apple Isle, and
during her stay is the guest of Nan McClel-
land.
J. J. Virgo and his wife have embarked at
London for their ninth trip around the
world. As International Secretary of
Y. Emma, he will visit Palestine and Persia
before stepping ashore in Australia, which is
his homeland. Adelaide, where he w T as local
secretary for many years, will first receive
the travellers. After inspecting the organisa-
tion’s progress in these parts, the Virgoes
will go to Fiji, en route for the United
States.
Dora Myer who left Lavender F'arm • for
an extended European tour, is on her way
home. She ran into the thick of the Con-
tinent’s record bad winter, and when she
encountered snow even on the Riveria she
decided that home was best.
When the Ormonde leaves London this
month Georgie Trumble will wave good-bye
to her father and brother from its deck, for
she is coming back to Australia to be mar-
ried. The ceremony will be performed at
Perth, where Leslie Gordon Walker awaits
his bride. Early next year the young couple
hope to visit Melbourne and greet their many
friends, but their home will be in the West,
where Mr. Walker’s firm is established.


ŗ
The Mutual Life & Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
FOUNDED 1886.
HEAD OFFICE: Citizens’ Building, Castlereagh
Street and Martin Place, Sydney.
TRUSTEES:
John Donaldson, A.1.A., Melbourne.
J. T. Tillock, Sydney.
The Hon. Sir Joseph H. Carruthers,
K.C.M.G., LL.D., M.L.C., Sydney.
The Hon. Sir H. Y. Braddon, K.8.E.,
M.L.C., Sydney.
J. B. Eggleston, Melbourne.
Walter Fell, M.D., Oxon., M.R.C.S., Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Sir Nicholas Lockyer, C.8.E., 1.5.0., Mel-
bourne.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Arthur Eedy, Managing Director.
W. J. Bloomfield, 8.A., LL.B.
The Hon. James Ashton, M.L.C., Chairman.
James Kell.
D. F. Garvan.
GREAT PROGRESS MADE BY THE
M.L.C. DURING 1928.
Items of interest from the 42nd Annual Report:
The total income of the Company was . .
(An increase of £163,893 for the year.)
The Assets at 31/12/1928 amounted to . .
(Of which £15,826,620 or 84.22 per cent, was
represented by Public Securities.)
The payments to policy-holders were
The amount paid to policy-holders since the inception of the
Company was . .
At the end of the year there were in force 512,441 life
policies assuring
£2,843,364
18,792,732
1,409,590
19,907,869
51,140,710
ORDINARY BRANCH
The new assurances amounted to . . . . . . . . £4,337,710
(An increase of £778,113.)
Cash Surplus (for the one year) . . . . . . . . 624,370
The average rate of interest earned on the total funds after the
deduction of taxes was £5/14/4 per cent.—a splendid rate, especially
in view of the proportion of gilt-edged securities held.
; ; y
£
S si
•*/
Mayes’ Australian
Builders and
Contractors’
PRICE BOOK
Practically Re-written in every Branch of
Construction, greatly enlarged, illustrated
and alphabetically arranged.
NINTH EDITION
Price 15/- Posted 15/4
RIGHT UP-TO-DATE. Invaluable for
ARCHITECTS, SHIRE ENGINEERS
AND PROPERTY OWNERS.
ř
ř
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your fancy, write
to the Manager, who will quote you price for the original.


Under
Royal
Vterrarit
r
Tom
King
GeorgeV
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
mums
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company Li mitod
SYDNEY.
CMampaGHC
oiarksncidsi6>
Heims
; 11
1— c?
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
J
ust a Moment from Everywhere
The Wentworth —Australia’s most efficiently-managed hotel
—is handy to theatres, shops and banks —yet delight-
fully situated away from the noise and roar of the city.
Personally conducted by Mrs. H. Maclurcan, Governing
Director, it is the centre of all smart gatherings, and the
Mecca of visitors who appreciate comfort, convenience
and excellence in cuisine.
Wire or write your reservations.
Qhe
Church Hill,
Sydney.
in
111
I
tL.
AUSTRALIA'S
HOTEL DE-LUXE
52 MacleaySt.
Limited
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT
{Located within the City Boundary 3 seven
minutes from G.P.O.')
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 150 Rooms, is now open and
features Two-, Three- and Four-
room Suites, each with Bath; also
Single and Double Rooms. Central
Heating, Running Water and
’Phones installed in each room.
Unsurpassed Harbor Views.
Weekly inclusive tariff,
from £5/5/-
Daily, from £1
Telephone: F 2 16 I (8 lines) ; Tele-
graphic address: “Fifmac,” Syd-
ney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayser
SHEER
CHIFFON
SILK
HOSIERY
Round in the Education Gallery the
Women Painters of Sydney are holding an
interesting exhibition. But although this is
entirely a woman’s show, Mabel Barling has
introduced the cause of all woman’s trouble.
On the bottom wall Adam and (presumably)
Eve take a spell-oh after the great exit
entirely surrounded by giraffes, while Leo
seems to be doing the heavy-father act after
a satisfying Sunday dinner, apple-dumpling
and all. Seriously, dogged does it, and one
fine day some art critic will awaken to the
fact that Miss Barling is a jolly fine animal
painter. Constance Moser raked in the Arts
Club prize of 25 guineas; and Mary
Edwards has painted a small grandchild of
Oxnard Smith, whose gold hair with a hint
of green in it and blue eyes with a dash of
the same tone in with the very large green
balloon the youngster is holding. And what
a piece of work is that balloon alone! Lady
de Chair opened the yearly show for the
fifth time, and her voice sounded quite wist-
ful as she remarked that it would probably
not happen again. With president Mrs. F.
W. Parsons on one side of her in beige satin
and furs, and Mrs. Florence Taylor’s plati-
num-grey laces on her right, her Ex. had a
fine foil for her own water-green velvets.
Director of the Art Gallery Jimmy MacDonald
was roped in as the lone male stage exhibit,
and while moving a vote of thanks to Lady
de Chair managed to drop a hint to the
Civic Fathers as to the ornamental petrol-
fillers and telephone-boxes England is design-
ing for her streets. But the telephone-boxes
are already too popular with lovers and their
lasses in the dark of the moon. If you made
them ornamental and comfortable you’d have
to put the telephone somewhere else.
Mabel Barling failed, but not ignobly, to
make an interesting arch of giraffes’ necks
for Adam and Eve to pass under. Somehow
the giraffe, in spite of his facile neck and
legs, never melts into a graceful compo-
sition. Miss Barling’s intention had been to
exhibit this year a great canvas of peacocks
—white peacocks, bluey-green peacocks, pea-
cocks in pride and glory. So on a day when
everything had gone wrong and a hundred
little niggling worries were tearing the very
sunshine of the day to pieces, the artist
decided to go to the Zoo and lose herself in
the flashing plumage of her vision. “And,
would you believe it?” says she, “when I
arrived the peacocks were moulting!” So
the giraffes had it.
The conference of the Zionists was opened
on Sunday by an official welcome from
Dr. Arthur, representing the State Govern-
ment, who handed out well-sugared compli-
ments about the success of the Zionist orga-
nisation in planting 100,000 Jews in Pales-
tine. Rabbi Brodie, from Melbourne, alert
and capable, controlled the gathering; an-
other figure of note was the Rev. Nathan
Levine, from Brisbane. Members assembled
for the conference of Jewish women were
participants or attentive listeners. But time
has not been entirely devoted to business;
Sydney has taken the opportunity to show
the visitors our beauty and other spots, some
of which you only reach with a corkscrew.
The first Conference of Jewish Women
under the presidency of Dr. Fanny Reading
opened at the Maccabean Hall in Darling-
hurst yesterday. Attorney-General Boyce,
knight Dan Levy and Mrs. Muscio were
among the star speakers of the first day,
and faced, besides the 80 delegates from every
Australian State and Maoriland, a great
audience of those interested. The idea behind
the rally is to discuss the formation of a
National Council of Jewish Women, the
major object being education in civic and
religious responsibilities, and particularly
in migration work. It is suggested that to
assist Jewish sirls in eastern Europe and
Palestine should be a feature of such an
organisation’s work.
Will woman, lovely and gifted, ever become
a mellow or jolly after-dinner speaker? Take,
for instance, the speeches at the Lyceum
Club lunch last week. Nobody said a witty
thing, but nearly everybody said wise ones;
never once did the wing of laughter flirt a
feather along the official table. The guests
of honor were Professor Gladys Marks, in
golden Frowns, topped by a demure hat of
honey straw; maternal-welfare Dr. Sandford
Morgan, complete with squirrel coat; and
violinist Elise Steele, in tailored black.
Perhaps the trouble is that only academic
and political women cultivate the art of
public speaking; and not for them the racy
style of the raconteur, the rainbow weaving
of words for effect. They deal with facts
and figures, these most estimable ladies, not
the smoke-rings of fancy. But, as a press-
woman, the writer of this Letter should not
criticise, for presswomen the world over are
notorious for dodging speech in public. How-
ever, if there wasn’t much laughter, there
was great friendliness and nice food, and,
rarest of all, a shoulder posy for each scribe,
and a copy of a hymn for Mother’s Day from
the pen of Mary Gilmore for everybody.
So president Mrs. Thomas and founder Mrs.
Rose Soley can notch up another success.
Ex-students of five Dominican Convents
in N. S. Wales—Moss Vale. Ashfield,
Maitland, Tamworth and Newcastle —form
the Dominican Old Girls’ Union, their main
object being to keep the bursary fund healthy.
Last week at the Ambassadors old girls of
St. Dominick’s gathered in numbers, till, with
partners and friends, there were over 300
dancers. To Mrs. O. Diethelm, president of
the union, fell the job of welcoming three
fluffy little debs., presented to her by trea-
surer Joan Standisli, w r hose geranium-red
georgettes were a striking contrast to their
fluttering white-spotted net and white georg-
ette. Mrs. Diethelm’s anemone-pink frocking
wore a silver border, and with her doctor
she entertained the J. T. Colemans, of
Cooma, as well as the envoys of the city’s
many convent schools. Secretaries May Daly
and Margaret Nelson joined forces and pre-
sided over one of the night’s happiest parties.
Violinist Elise Steele, looking fresh as new
paint and pretty as a picture, is back in
Sydney with a sheaf of New York laurels.
Slie was here about three years ago, and was
popular with Government House heads and
the gentry on the private visiting list.
But the brilliant artist makes her appeal
quite apart from her social sponsors, and the
musical world is glad to know she intends to
give two recitals here, the first on June 11
at the Con. Eve Pascoe (Mrs. Kenneth
Hungerford) welcomed Elise to Sydney at a
party at Wollaston’s Music Box in George-
street. The glow of firelight, the gold of
chrysanthemums and the warm flame of poin-
settia filled the room with pools of color,
and when the guest of honor, in her amber
tulles, commenced to play the soul of the
aesthetic sighed with satisfaction. The hos-
tess, a clever violinist herself, wore lilac
velvet, and music and the drama were heavy
in the guest list. But literature—well,
literature, the Cinderella of Australian arts,
was left at home.
Its name being what it is, of course the
yearly dance of the Sydney Uni. Musical
Society and Glee Club was harmonious anfl
full of beans, though in the matter of finance
the Plimsoll line was not touched. How-
ever, when the rumor of the jollification in
the Union Refectory gets about the quad.,
undergrads, will start queuing up for next
year’s party. Ruth Cohen and 11. T. Osmond
were the official pen-pushers who spared no
ink in their efforts to make the affair one of
the best. Ruth, in rose chiffon velvets moon-
lit with diamente, was particularly pleased
over the sale of novelties. These struck a
new note, and were the musical instruments
of all the ages. The usual “lucky number”
was tagged on to each. B. Sharp and B.
Natural grinned cheerfully at the dancers
in the vacant spaces between the blue and
gold streamers. President Keith Barry
brought his lady, who looked a midsummer
night’s dream in her long white lace frock.
Miss Susie Williams, of the Women’s Col-
lege, flashed silver-grey velvets; Professors
Lovell and Fawsitt brought their wives, and
the Faunce Allman couple smiled their bless-
ing. The Frank Alberts brought a party,
Mrs. Albert in a creation of blue lace with
which her blue satin shoes were timed to
the minute.
Greet the creator of the part of the
Maori Prin-
cess in Alfred
Hill’s latest
opera. She is
May Craven,
whose soaring
soprano and
inspired acting
did much to-
wards the suc-
cess of “Te-
ora.” This was
the opening
production of
the Turret
Theatre in
North Sydney;
and since then
one admirable
p r e s e n tation
after another
has been
served to the
little theatre’s
patrons.
The newly-formed Garden Club (with a
long list of original members) opened its
doors on Thursday. There was no fussy cere-
monial ; the club was just opened to mem-
bers. and the founder, Mrs. Pickburn, and
Sunbeam Mylius, the secretary, greeted the
arrivals and showed them over the beautifully
and comfortably appointed premises—for-
merly the home of the late Laurie Moss.
The membership includes men as well as
women, and among the visiting members on
the opening day were the Henry Braddons,
Hugh Denison’s lady, Mrs. Sep Levy and her
son Douglas, and the better halves of knights
Mungo MacCallum and Mark Sheldon.
The big stir of Sydney last week was the
arrival of the new commander of the Aus-
tralian Navy—Rear-Admiral Evans, C. 8.,
known in the Navy as Evans of the Broke ;
for it was in the Broke that he did his
most brilliant war-time service. The attrac-
tive lady in this picture is Mrs. Evans, who
claims Norway
for her birth-
place, and
whose chief
pride, apart
from her fam-
ous husband,
is in her two
boys, Richard
and Broke.
Kismet, the
Philip Busliell
home in Potts
Point, is the
family’s pre-
sent headquar-
ters. From its
balcony the
Admiral can
keep an eye
on the Har-
bor and see
that nobody
tries to burgle
his flagship,
for the Australia seems to be almost at his
doorstep. A very different atmosphere greeted
the pleasant family on its arrival from that
which enwrapped the ill-starred Scott expe-
dition to the Antarctic with which Evans
was so famously associated.
So Sydney gives anchorage to the two
Evanses whose names are on the honor board
for Antarctic service—E.R., the new Admi-
ral, who was Scott’s second-in-command, and
F.P.; both captains when they sailed south,
one now an admiral, the other—a lawyer !
It was after he had commanded first the
Koonya and then the Nimrod with Shackle-
ton that Captain F. P. was called to the
bar in Sydney. Here, too, he married. Maybe
it was memories of the comfort of a lifebelt
that turned his thoughts to a cork-merchant’s
daughter. At any rate, he married Miss
Thomson, whose father was a partner in
Mauri Bros, and Thomson. An uncle was
that well-remembered Dugald who was poli-
tician as well as merchant.
Admiral Evans is an exceptionally good
speaker; the lecture he delivered in Queen’s
Hall on his return from the Scott expedi-
tion is still remembered. Sliackleton, by the
way, was chairman; and mention of Mrs.
Evans’s Norwegian birth recalls that when
too soon afterwards, Sliackleton died at New
Georgia, in the Antarctic, the funeral service
was half in Norwegian and half in English.
The Junior Red Crossers sew all the year-
round for the children of soldiers who are
sick and of soldiers who never returned, and
they support at least two homes for the sick
sons and daughters of cx-Diggers. They
plan ways and means of raising money for
other good causes, and their faces beam with
the joy of helping others. It is impossible
to see, as Sydney did at the Juniors’ exhibi-
tion and pageant in the Town H'all last week,
these bands of girls and not notice the fine
quality of the gaze they turn upon the world.
Henriette Segaert, the Belgian Consul’s
eldest chick, has burst her shell and joined
the Married Women’s Choir. Since the vows
were heard at St. Joseph’s, in Neutral Bay,
early last week Henriette has been Mrs.
Andre Brenac. The wedding was first-thing-
in-the-morning and very intimate, only the
bride’s father and mother and a few close
friends of both parties being present. Georg-
ette, blue as a summer-afternoon sky, a sil-
very hat and a bunch of daffodils were the
bride’s equipment. Sister Sophie, in leafy
greens, and groom’s brother George made up
the procession. Luncheon was served at the
Segaerts’ Neutral Bay home.
White Chantilly rippling into a snowdrift
of train that was considerably augmented by
flaky layers of tulle veil sustained Dorothy
Parker, of Rose Bay, when she crossed the
Great Divide between spinsterhood and the
holy estate. Canon Lea officiated at the
Bridge of Vows, and bridegroom David
McCathie met her more than half-way. Four
’maids —the bride’s two • sisters, Joyce and
Shirley, ’groom’s sister Kathleen, and Sybil
Vickers —brought white frilled georgettes,
scarlet shoes, hats and bouquets to color the
procession, At the subsequent reception the
bride’s mother hostessed in black satin, hand-
some as to design and texture.
Cremorne is specialising in the family-
circle wedding. Enid Ilassall, only daughter
of the T. F. Hassalls, became Mrs. Edward
White, of the same suburb, in St. Philip s,
surrounded only by relations. The bride s
raiment, old-rose georgettes, golden-brown
hat served with a small posy of white vio-
lets, assured a world astonished by a mid-
summer sun that autumn had stolen in with-
out a sound. The Wentworth served the
breakfast.
Graceful Kathleen Pye, only daughter of
Mrs. Charles Pye, of Darling Point, and
sister of popular Johnnie, has just sent
word home of her engagement in Paris. The
young man is Pierre Remond, a barrister
who started life in the diplomatic service.
Kathleen and her family have known Pierre
for over a year, having met him at the home
of Consul-General Nettement’s sister; and
friendship blossomed into romance just as
the Sydney girl was deciding to leave Paris
for home. Wedding bells in Sydney towards
the end of the year.
To catch ’em young is evidently the way to
keep your charity committees supplied with
good workers; and Scarba Home for Babies,
at Bondi, netted a great draught of youth
and its sympathy when the young old-girls
of Shirley decided to hold their yearly dance
for its benefit. The Ambassadors was the
centre of the chiffon and tulle whirlwind,
the frocking being almost universally of the
flowing and billowy order. The principals
of the well-known school, the Misses Edith
and Ada Saunders, in handsome apparel of
black and gold, smiled above their presenta-
tion posies and entertained a large party,
which included Mrs. Loewenthal, president
of the Scarba Auxiliary, and Mr. T. E.
Slionk, the organising secretary of the
Benevolent Society of which Scarba is an
offshoot.
In spite of W. Shakspeare there are two
Sydney girls who think autumn no less
than spring is a pretty ringtime. They are
Lilian Miller, daughter of the Commonwealth
Bank’s late chief, and Kathleen Lloyd, of
Concord. The first has announced her inten-
tions towards It. Brownlow Dixon, of Gunne-
dah; and John Atherton McGuire is
Kathleen’s choice.
At last Australia is to have a Director of
Maternal Hygiene—Dame Janet Mary Camp-
bell, held to be the foremost authority on the
subject in the Empire. She is the officer in
charge of her division in the English Ministry
of Health, and will only be on loan to us
for six months. Dame Janet can be very
gracious, but those who met her when she
was looking after munition-workers' health
during the war remember chiefly her
emphasis—-no field-marshal ever had a more
commanding manner.
Off for another jaunt is Stella George, of
Balmoral. This time Honolulu is her port
of call. With her goes flapper niece Isabel,
who, when she is old enough, intends to be
a nurse at St. Vincent’s. Miss George’s last
tour, from which she is not long returned, was
in India. There she visited Adyar, and in
the kingdom of Annie Besant renewed many-
old friendships, notably with the amazing
Annie herself, and with the poet Tagore.
From the gentle Krishnamurti emanates,
Miss George says, a simplicity that is be-
coming the keynote in Theosophical circles.
He is, whatever else, a minor poet, whose
great friend is Tagore.
The Artists’ Ball will this year be only a
small onion—a mere shallot, in fact —in the
salad with which Ure Smith hopes to sharpen
the appetite of this city. The president of
the Society of Artists has drawn up a scheme
for an Artists’ Week, to embrace a carnival
on the Show Ground, a dancing display, a
musical festival, an exhibition of architec-
ture and town-planning, a ball and, if per-
mission can be obtained, an art union. If
there’s an art union the funds are all right,
for Sydney will spend its last bob in a gamble
for a few thousands; but if there’s no art
union this Letter can foresee a frantic round
of subsidiary entertainments, each to pay off
the expenses of the other.
Two visitors to Queanbeyan to celebrate
the local convent’s jubilee were Sisters Mary
Magdalene Clancy and Mary Pius Hillier.
Both belonged to' the original community
which arrived in the town in 1879. Both
vividly recall the opening of the small
school 50 years ago, when among the first
of the five boarders was Sarah Brennan,
one of the most gifted women Australia
has produced. Miss Brennan passed from
the convent the old Junior University exami-
nation, later to be the first woman graduate,
thereafter taking her M.A. and B.Sc. A
remarkable feature was that her father,
Martin Brennan, Superintendent of Police
in Sydney, although then approaching 60,
studied with his daughter and took his B.A.
degree. Later in life Miss Brennan entered
the convent.
Bigger and better than ever is the prophecy
concerning the Aero Club’s Ball, which will
wake up David Jones’s ballroom on July
9. Captain Geoffrey Hughes’s wife is presi-
dent of the committee; Mrs. J. E. Terry the
secretary.


SLIMNESS AND BEAUTY THIS EASY WAY-
LEICHNER 1001, the well-known weight reducer and beauty bath, is now available to the Australian public.
It is not to be taken internally, but is an effective, delicately perfumed preparation which is added to your warm bath. The
reduction of weight is brought about in an entirely natural action of the human system and does not have any harmful effect
on the heart or kidneys.
Medical reports state that a reduction of as much as 31b. after a single bath has been obtained with Leichner 1001.
IT IS, IN FACT, THE ONLY EFFECTIVE WAY OF WEIGHT REDUCTION.
The most surprising feature of Leichner Slim Figure Bath 1001 is its rejuvenating effect, and after a few baths the skin regains
its elasticity and becomes a beautiful lily-white.
Retail price, 4/- per packet (post free, 4/6). Obtainable from your chemist and leading city stores.
LEICHNER 100 l
For Particulars, complete attached
Coupon and mail to —
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
MESSRS. LOHMANN & CO., LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, G.P.O. Box 804 G, Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS


Sporting.
Australian Jockey Club.
RANDWICK RACECOURSE.
OWNERS AND TRAINERS are hereby
reminded that ENTRIES for the undermen-
tioned races close with the Secretary, V.R.0.,
Melbourne; Q.T.C., Brisbane; S.A.J.C.,
Adelaide; W.A.T.C., Perth; W.R.C., Wel-
lington (N.Z.) ; T.R.C., Hobart (Tas.) ;
N.J.C., Newcastle; or the undersigned at
four o’clock p.m. on TUESDAY, 4th JUNE,
1929:
SPRING MEETING, 1929.
THE EPSOM HANDICAP, £3OOO added.
For three-year-olds and upwards at time
of starting. ONE MILE. (£1 first for-
feit must accompany each entry.)
THE METROPOLITAN, £6OOO added. For
tliree-year-olds and upwards at time of
starting. ONE MILE AND FIVE FUR-
LONGS. (£2 first forfeit must accompany
each entry.)
RACES FOR NOW YEARLINGS.
THE BREEDERS’ PLATE, 1929, £2OOO
added. For Colts and Geldings. FIVE
FURLONGS.
THE GIMCRACK STAKES, 1929, £2OOO
added. For Fillies only. FIVE FUR-
LONGS.
THE DECEMBER STAKES, 1929, £2OOO
added. FIVE FURLONGS.
THE A.J.C. SIRES’ PRODUCE STAKES,
1930, £3OOO added. SEVEN FURLONGS.
THE CHAMPAGNE STAKES, 1930, £3OOO
added. SIX FURLONGS.
THE A.J.C. DERBY, 1930, £BOOO added.
ONE MILE AND A HALF.
THE ADRIAN KNOX STAKES, 1931,
£l5OO added. For Fillies only. ONE
MILE.
THE A.J.C. ST. LEGER, 1931, £2500 added.
ONE MILE AND THREE-QUARTERS.
Nomination of Sires for Sires’ Produce
Stakes, 1931. Entrance Fee £lO.
Programmes containing full particulars and
Entry Forms may be had on application.
C. W. CROPPER,
Secretary.
6 Bligh Street, Sydney.
Australian Jockey Club
WARWICK FARM RACES.
SPRING MEETING, 1929.
THE CAMPBELLTOWN HANDICAP,
£5OO added. For three-year-olds and up-
wards at time of starting. SIX FUR-
LONGS. (Entry fee £l.)
THE WARWICK FARM SPRING HAN-
DICAP, £5OO added. For three-year-olds
and upwards at time of starting. ONE
MILE AND THREE FURLONGS.
(Entry fee £l.)
RACES FOR NOW YEARLINGS.
(Entrance Free.)
THE KIRKHAM STAKES, 1929, £lOOO
added. FIVE FURLONGS.
THE HOBARTVILLE STAKES, 1930,
£lOOO added. SEVEN FURLONGS.
ENTRIES for the above races close with
the Secretary, V.R.C., Melbourne; Q.T.C.,
Brisbane; S.A.J.C., Adelaide; W.A.T.C.,
Perth; W.R.C., Wellington (N.Z.) ; T.R.C.,
Hobart (Tas.) ; N.J.C., Newcastle; or the
undersigned at four o’clock p.m. on TUES-
DAY, 4th JUNE, 1929.
C. W. CROPPER,
Secretary.
6 Bligh Street, Sydney.
PERCY MARKS,
JEWELLER AND LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emcra:ds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
;n Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
I
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Dibectors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
E. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.Q.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Fedeial Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction ot all general banking business.
GILT-EDGED SECURITY
FOR ALL
MOTORISTS.
“Silver Edge”
BRAKE
11l I'
css
a
WON’T FAIL YOU!
“Gold Edge”
LINING
RAYBESTOS BELACO LTD.
LONDON.
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Melb.
jor Mellow Mild
nejj
ŕ
Select Club Reil Cigars, because they are
made of rich Havana leaf, fragrant and
flavorsome. . . .and delightfully mild. Club
Reil Cigars are obtainable at hotels and
tobacconists’ or at address below.
ORDER BY POST,
CRAIG &MTKEN * 654 GEORGE ST, SYDNEY
DISTRIBUTORS FOR CLUB REIL CIGAR FACTOR/.
The Rug that Beats the Yearling
IT’S THERE TO STAY
BEENIE’S BETTER RDG
USED BY ALL FOREMOST BREEDERS
AND TRAINERS.
“A” Quality, for turning out, is made of Thom-
son super flax canvas, lined with warm wool
sft.! 51/6; sft. 9in., 53/6; 6ft., 55/-
“ES” Quality, for racehorses. A light rug made of white
Manhattan duck, lined with warm wool check.
sft. 6in., 43/9; sft. 9in., 45/-; 6ft., 47/-
Add 2/9 -per Rug jor Freight.
®«6«
r
WALTHER S STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
/A
uhchaitd that holds
the" VENUS"
\plans the World
The first rough suggestion—the skilful
and accurate working out, the sharp
detailed drawings, all the preliminary
planning necessary to the carrying out of
constructive effort, call for the use of VENUS
PENCILS. Whether it be for the building of a
battle-ship or the design of a simple household
article, the pencil is the first requirement: the
VENUS the first pencil.
ŗ
17 Blacklead Degrees 68-9 H sd. each - 4/9 per dozen, Super Copying (Medium & Hard) 6d.
each • 5/9 per dozen. Venus Copying (Medium & Hard) 4d. each - 3/9 per dozen.
ŕ
A
SK TO See THB L.ATBST
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
• China
Nursery Ware
iy Lucie Attweu
v Hilda Cowham
Domestic Ware
Jelly Moulds
OBTAINING
131,CLARENCE OV.
ř
Simplest Way to Stop
INDIGESTION
If you suffer after eating, try this simple plan!
Eat three Para-Pepsin tablets during your meal and
note results. No pain! Just a hearty meal, and
a first-rate feeling afterwards. No drowsiness! Para-
Pepsin is a great remedy for digestive troubles—
much better than anti-acids or bismuthated
magnesia. And Para-Pepsin costs only two shillings
at the chemist’s. So little for such quick relief.'
r
In Days of Old
White hair was
all the vogue.
In modern days
grey or white
hair is consid-
ered a sign of
approaching
age.
It is NOT "THE
THING.”
All traces of Grey can readily be removed
by an application of
Dr. Allen’s (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
Sold at all Chemists and Stores.
Harmless, easy
to apply, can-
not be detected
Australian Agents:
DUERDIN AND
SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street,
Melbourne.
ŕ
“THE AGE 9
Established 1854 .
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise you do not consider the
money involved as a speculation. You treat
this expenditure as an investment and expect
a reasonable return on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in the
affairs and development of Victoria. Its
present powerful position has been gained bv
its literary worth, which appeals to an intelli-
gent public, and by its accurate and complete
news service. These factors, having a direct
bearing on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser looking
for the best INVESTMENT for his advertising
expenditure.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation,
123,533.
Hates on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States or
DAVID SVME & CO..
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.


CEYLON/
BY Orient Line Mail Steamer
a first saloon return passage
to Ceylon costs only sixty-five
pounds and the days at sea are
an enjoyable part of a delight-
ful holiday. In Ceylon itself,
prices are reasonable and every
facility is offered for sport, for
tours to Nuwara Eliya, Kandy
and the ancient buried cities,
for close study of the quaint
and primitive ways of the
natives. This island has that
peculiar charm of the East
which never fails in its appeal
to Australians.
ORIENT
LINE
m
r
r/r
%
rrm
i
Mi
N>
W>
>s
<z?
p pDifitr*
fruit seller
Golombo
r
LEIPZIG TRADE FAIR
GERMANY
AUTUMN FAIR with great Engineering and Building sections —starts August
25 1929. “If you are alive to business YOU MUST GO!” Last year 185,000
buyers! 10,000 exhibitors! Letters of introduction and all particulars freely
given by authorised representative.
LARS G. BRUNDAHL,
’Phor.es: 84006, MW2201. 6 Dailey Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY;S: THE DESERT SONG
ROYAL: THIS YEAR OF GRACE.
CRITERION: PIGS
PALACE: NO. 17
DICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
1 ~c. williamson” ltd.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT,
ANA PAVLOVA.
ROYAL:
THE FIVE-O’CLOCK GIRL.
VIEW COMEDY THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
YOUNG WOODLEY.
UOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
** MELBOURNE.
H. B. WARNER and LATRICE JOY in
MAN MADE WOMAN.
AND
LOIS WILSON and GEORGE K. ARTHUR in
THE GINGHAM GIRL,
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 QUEENSLAND—ROCKHAMPTON.
Matrimonial Jurisisction.
No. 11 of 1929.
Mr. Justice Brennan.
BETWEEN GRACE PHYLLIS REY-
NOLDS of Clermont Plaintiff and
HERBERT SYDNEY REYNOLDS
Defendant.
To HERBERT SYDNEY REYNOLDS.
TAKE NOTICE that GRACE PHYLLIS
REYNOLDS of Clermont in the State of
Queensland has commenced an action against
you in the Supreme Court of Queensland at
Rockhampton by Writ dated the third day of
April 1929 claiming a dissolution of marriage
on the ground of your desertion AND that if
you wish to defend the said action you should
cause an appearance to be entered for you
in the Supreme Court Rockhampton within
thirty days of the date of this publication
AND that in default of your so doing the
said Grace Phyllis Reynolds may by leave
of the Court or a Judge proceed therein and
judgment may be given in your absence.
DATED the fourteenth day of May, 1929.
[L.s.] J. R. GAIR,
Registrar.
Joseph Pattison, Solicitor for Plaintiff,
East Street, Rockhampton.
Missing Friends.
ALFRED DELAMORE BROWNE, who
lived in the Darlinghurst district of
Sydney in 1909, and ROBERT DRURIK
BROWNE, or their children, should com-
municate with the undersigned, and will hear
of something to their advantage. Persons
knowing of their whereabouts or death kindly
write to R. N. ANTHONY MAWBY & CO.,
Solicitors, Box 2454 M.M., G.P.0., Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to tlie Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
If any illustration in * THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
■who will quote you price for the original.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Our Governor is basking in the sun at
Torres Strait.
At Tambourine Mountain a social was held
by the C.W.A. to benefit Canungra Hospital.
Gifts of liot-water bottles, blankets and tea-
cloths were supplemented by cheques. W. G.
Forrest-Pearson contributed tenor solos, and
received many encores. His wife is the only
daughter of Mrs. M. Forrest.
For the Valley Crfeche and Kindergarten
the F. L. Souths lent their home, Wyuna,
Ascot, for a dance and bridge evening to
augment the funds. Flags and Oriental lan-
terns decked the verandahs, where dancing
took place, and dahlias and roses back-
grounded the bridge tables in the drawing-
room and lounge.
A popular election win was that of Irene
Longman for Bulimba, the first woman to be
elected to our
Pari iament.
She is sister
to J. G. Bay-
ley, Chairman
of Committees
in the Federal
House, and
was born in
Tasmania.
Since her
accession t o
Parliamentary
honors she has
been feted by
the Q.W.E.L.
and the Coun-
try and Pro-
gressive party,
and the
Q.W.E.L. i s
arranging a
“victory even-
ing” for her.
She is an in-
teresting woman and a hard worker,' and
many a Labor vote must have come her way.
The Plumridges’ yacht Taabinga took a
party up the river hostessed by Mrs. J. E.
S. Plumridge, wife of the president of the
Chamber of Commerce.
Arthur Benjamin has been giving recitals
in the Exhibition concert hall. The Music
Teachers’ Association gave him a reception,
and his mother a bouquet of roses and sheaf
of chrysanthemums, at Albert House. Percy
Brier persided, with the aid of Mrs. Brier
and Mrs. Gilbert Wilson.
Secretary of the Sydney Women’s Club,
L. E. Sutherland, was entertained by the
president of Brisbane Women’s Club, Mrs. E.
B. Harris, at luncheon, and afterwards was
taken on a motor trip to Mount Cooth-a.
Then Daphne Mayor took her in hand and
showed her over the new Town Hall and her
own studio.
Harold, son of the late G. A. Fielding and
of Mrs. Fielding, Olayfield, was married at
the City Congregational Church to Lilian
Lapraik, daughter of the Walter Lapraiks,
Greenslopes. The bride was arrayed in flesh-
pink satin beaut 4, and her flesh-pink veil was
caught with pearls. Pink and cream roses
made the bouquet. Doris Lapraik and Melva
Fielding ’maided in rose-pink taffetas.
Townsville has lost a picturesque citizen
by the death, at 83, of Nicholas Monte.
After an adventurous career at sea he settled
on Magnetic Island, across the bay, and
built a flat-bottomed punt to convey visitors
ashore from the launches. He established
a home at Cockle Bay, where he catered for
trippers, with whom he was very popular.
For the Y.W.C.A. fund Captain and Mrs.
E. R. B. Pike had a bridge evening amidst
bowls of white daisies and pink roses at
Royston, Kangaroo Point. Tables were set
out in the drawing-room.
The hospitality committee of the Presby-
terian Women’s Mission Union gave a lun-
cheon to the delegates to the Assembly at
St. Andrew’s Hall amongst yellow chrysan-
themums.
Much discussion goes on over the merits
and demerits of the talkies. Hoyts still run
them with success at His Majesty’s, and
there is a movement afoot to make speaking
films in this State.
WEST AUSTRALIA.
Perth.
The weather, was unpropitious for the
May Ball at Guildford Grammar School, but
that didn’t affect the attendance much. Padre
Freeth’s wife and Mrs. Ferguson Stewart
headed the committee. Orchestral strains
floated forth from a maze of crimson dahlias
and multi-colored chrysanthemums on the
dais of the large dining-hall, which consti-
tuted the ballroom, and a profusion of Guild-
ford roses adorned the supper tables. Mrs.
Freeth trod a stately measure in cyclamen
georgettes with silver headings; and Mrs.
Ferguson Stewart presided over the supper
in aquamarine ninon enriched with rhine-
stones.
The sun smiled on the Labor Day race-
meeting at Ascot. After the rains the lawns
made a bright emerald frame for the gay
flower-beds. Mrs. Arthur Francis looked
well in a pleated white creation, with smart
headpiece of black and white ; Mrs. Webster
contrasted navy with mastic; Maude Mitchell
had a good day in navy and red ensemble;
and Edna Noble was outfitted in scarlet.
Jean Robinson, who was on' the eve of her
departure for the North-West, chose a snappy
grey costume.
Perth Hospital should benefit materially
from the proceeds of the “Rio Rita” Cabaret,
an after-the-theatre show. Their Exes,
attended the performance of “Rio Rita,” and
then trailed round to Temple Court, where
Mrs. Everitt Atkinson did the receiving.
Gladys Monerieff was in black silk net, and
Janette Gilmore in ciel-blue tulle, adroop
with rosebuds. The ballet gave several num-
bers en masse, and Charles Moran provoked
mirth. Mrs. Eagleton, wife of the hospital
secretary, had crimson roses adorning the
waistline of her handsome black gown; Mrs.
Donald Smith’s orchid-blue lace was worn
over tissue; Mrs. Wilford Mitchell graced
black Chantilly lace; and the Contessa Filip-
pini was filmy in white georgette and lace.
Jascha Spivakovsky has been feted by
music-lovers and other artistic folk. A
reception at Lyric House brought forth most
of the musical world. Mayor Franklin,
David Lyle, Mrs.. Cecil Mason and Gwladys
Edwards were in evidence; and Mrs. Suther-
land Groom arranged the musical programme.
An informal welcome by Repertory Club
members was held in the clubrooms. Marcia
Hodges was in good voice after the recent
extraction of a tonsil; Martin Ketley
charmed with his violin; and Miss Hartman
recited Alfred Noyes’s version of the legend
of the Niagara.
The Church of the Redemptionists’ Monas-
tery heard vows exchanged this week be-
tween Doris, daughter of the M. J. Horri-
gans, of North Perth, and Palmerston Croft,
of the same burg. Doris “I willed” in
ivory georgette embroidered in silver, with
train of chenille georgette lined with blush
pink. Mercia de Mamiel and Liffy Croft
’maided, and Shirley Gibson carried the train.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
By the Mooltan arrived the Hon. Mrs.
F. Barry, Lady Hore-Ruthven’s mother,
accompanied by a friend, Miss Johnson.
Mrs. Barry travelled as far as Colombo
with her grandson, Patrick Hore-Ruthven,
and broke her journey there for a week.
Her visit to Australia will be a brief one, as
she is returning with Patrick to England at
the conclusion of his vacation from Eton.
The last of the three meetings of the
S. A. J. Club held at Morphettville was
well attended, though the weather was bleak.
Mrs. S. J. Jacobs was acting hostess for
Whitmore Carr, the chairman. Fur coats
came to the fore like mushrooms after a
shower, and Mrs. L. Napier and Phyllis
Reid, both in bright red, and Mrs. Fred
Tennant, in blue, relieved the monotony of
fawn tweed tailored suits.
Nancy Muecke has left to make her home
in Sydney, as the bride of Neville Manning.
The wedding was at Christ Church, North
Adelaide. The pretty bride wore gold lace,
and her two bridesmaids were in maize
georgette, with felt hats. The bridegroom’s
parents, Mr. and Mrs. R. K. Manning, came
from Sydney for the ceremony. Before the
marriage eight girl friends of the bride gave
her a large party at the Maison de Dance,
at Glenelg. The guests were all of the
younger set. The hostesses were Kathleen
Campbell, Phyllis Forwood, Lilian Hender-
son, Girlie Lynch, Alison Thomas, Muriel
Stott, Alison Yerco and Evelyn Scarfe.
Ruth Naylor’s concert, given prior to her
departure for London as the winner of the
Elder Scholarship, proved a great success.
Chocolates and flowers were showered on the
young vocalist.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
Launceston isn’t in a mood to enjoy social
or sporting events just yet, although things
are gradually getting back to normal after
the floods. The Newnham R. C. and the
T. organised a race meeting in aid of the
relief fund, but it was not very well at-
tended. The girls’ combined school sports
fell on the same day, which may have had
something to do with it.
A committee of young people, with Maisie
Brain and Janet McPliee as secs., ran a
bright little dance at the Continental in aid
of the food-relief funds. The two ballrooms
were well filled, and the supper tables
flaunted gorgeous dahlias. Youth and pretty
frocking, £ood music and a memorable supper
were features.
The Jim Mitchells did the honors on Pre-
sident’s Day at the Rosny golf links. About
200 members and friends rolled up and en-
joyed the fine autumn weather, which made
playing a pleasure and looking on no pen-
ance. Tea was spread in the club-house,
where chrysanthemums made a blaze of color.
This martial-looking gentleman is D. Col-
bron Pearse, secretary of the Art Society and
Assistant Com-
missioner of
Boy Scouts.
He had a
varied career
before chance
landed him in
the Speck.
Coming of a
family that
has produced
artists for five
generations, he
studied in Lon-
don, going in
chiefly for
aiiimal studies
and black-and-
white. His
father came to
Australia with
the then Duke
of York in 1901.
D r auglitsman-
sh i p is the
son’s strong point, and he laments the
lack of it shown in the work of some modern
painters. He saw active service in the Great
War for years with the 2nd Manchester
Battalion; was in Mespot. in 1920, and took
part in the fighting during the Arab rebel-
lion. From 1921 to 1922 he was a staff
officer in India.
Congratulations on their engagement are
pouring in upon Patricia, only chick of the
F. A. Woods, Toorak (S.A.), and Francis,
eldest son of the Henry Fosters, Merton,
Campbell Town. The prospective bride is.
well known in Hobart, her mother having
lived here as a girl (she was Hilda Seal).
Her fiance is one of the wealthiest of our
Midland squires.


-s'
rf
Clothes for Men
and Their Sons
A Big Shady
Bush Hat<x.
The “TRAIL”
A fine Pure Fur Felt Hat by “Wood-
row.” Designed for men who work
out 'neath the rays of a fiery sun.
Generous leaf of 4 Vfc inches, which
can be worn up or
down. In fawn only.
58/6
Pike Brothers
Limited
In Queen Street, Brisbane
21.
EARN ALL YOU CAN—
SAVE ALL YOU CAN—GIVE ALL YOU CAN
Such was the good advice of John Wesley. You are, of course, entitled
to earn all you can, and no doubt are bending all your energies in that
direction.
Nevertheless, what you save will, in the long run, probably count for
more than what you earn.
Use the easy saving plan. Open a Commonwealth Savings Account,
and be faithful to it, for the sake of your future needs and that you
may be able to give when it is your duty to give.
(fibmmonwcaltb Savmas Joank of Hustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government ).
Monday to Friday—
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
From 7.30. Minimum Charge, 10/-
Saturday, Late Gaia Night.
Special Table d’HOte Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
From 10 o’clock, Special Supper 12/6; or
a la carte, minimum, 12/6
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 to 5, 4/-. Parties of six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
The Ambassadors New Delightful
Dance Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and Khvthm that makes dancing an
effortless pleasure.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M4ISI.
THE QUARTERMASTER.
THIS IS THE £500 FIRST-PRIZE NOVEL “A HOUSE IS BUILT,” BY FLORA ELDERSHAW AND MARJORIE BARNARD,
ABRIDGED BY “THE BULLETIN” FOR SERIAL PUBLICATION.
Norman Lindsa/.
cJj
CHAPTER I.
Soundings.
AT daybreak on June 16, 1837, his
Majesty’s ship Intrepid made Port
Jackson, one hundred and ten days
out from Portsmouth. Her quartermaster,
James Hyde, was one of the first to leave
the ship on shore leave. With his friend
Jacob Jeffries he strolled along the quay,
sampling the wares of the inns as in honor
bound.
They worked their way to the left, to
the rounded grassy hill outside the town;
the one a square, ruddy man, powerful and
sanguine; the other of a lean and melan-
choly aspect, with a long, pale face. They
walked in silence, one thinking of the
future, the other of the past, after their
kind.
When they reached the summit of Flag-
staff Hill the water lay before them, the
town upon their right. It was eleven o’clock
in the morning, and a clear sky. They
could see the Intrepid lying at anchor, the
wharves and quays and masts of shipping.
“Look!” cried the Quartermaster. He
turned to his companion, his face aglow.
“That’s a wonderful sight, Jacob, the finest,
the safest harbor in the world.”
“Rio runs it very close,” returned the
cautious Jacob.
“A dago port and not so fine, either. Any
city that is built here must become a great
city. Can’t you imagine what this will be
like in a hundred years?”
Jacob grunted. “Give me to-day,” he
said; “that’s enough.”
They sat on the grass in the winter sun,
smoking; and after a long, companionable
silence the Quartermaster was moved to
confidence.
“Jacob,” he began, “I’ve been thinking
a lot of the future these last few months.
I’ve climbed as. high in the service as I
can. I began at nothing, and the climb
has been good, but now I’m there.” His
fingers, fumbling in the warm grass, found
a pebble and he tossed it in the direction
of the Intrepid. “That’s a small hencoop
for a man to live his life in. I know every
inch of it. I’m restless, Jacob, restless.
I’ve seen them—you’ve seen them, too-
retired petty officers living on their pen-
sions, growing hollyhocks and thinking of
the past, settling down to be old ladies.
The navy’s a blind alley, and when you’ve
turned fifty you see the blank wall at the
end.”
There was a long pause; then the Quarter-
master broke out again:
“I’ve thought of everything. There’s no
place for a man like me at home. Every-
thing’s overdone there, and they don’t want
sailors. But in a place like this, a growing
place, they want men. Any man with
energy could get on. I think I’ll send in
my papers and settle here.”
Lying stretched out on the grass, his
chin propped on his hands, the Quarter-
master looked out again over the scene
below them. To his right the town lay,
a strange, chaotic mess of streets and
buildings; to the left and immediately
below him the harbor waters glinted in the
winter sunlight. Its great expanse seemed
almost crowded with the motley craft that
lay moored within its sheltering heads.
Square-rigged whalers from the East- and
South Pacific lay anchored close to the
wharves, and even to where the two men
lay rose the rank smell of the whale-oil.
Beyond them, farther out in the stream,
were tall East Indiamen and a host of small
boats laboring from them to the wharves
and back. There were weatherbeaten
traders from the China Sea and the
western ports of America, and small staunch
vessels for the coastal trade.
The Quartermaster turned back to Jacob,
lying with closed eyes and face upturned
to the sun.
“I don’t know what I’ll do yet, Jacob,
but it will have to be something to do with
ships and supplies, because those are the
things I understand. I haven’t haggled in
every British port and fought with weevils
on the high seas for nothing. Do you think
it’s a good scheme, Jacob?”
“A good scheme, Jim, if it’s what you
want.”
“I’ve got some money put away—not
enough to buy into anything much good
at home, but plenty to set me up here. I
don’t want to go into a thing that’s made
already; I w T ant to make it. I’d send
for my boy and my girls and we’d build a
home somewhere. It’s for them as much as
anything. My boy, William, is in a count-
ing house, getting a l’ound back on a high
stool—that’s no life for a sailor’s son. And
there’s the two girls. Would you join me,
Jacob?”
Jacob shook his head slowly. “I’ve fol-
lowed the sea since I was a boy of ten,”
he said, “and when the sea has done with
me, I want to go home.”
There was a few moments’ silence; then:
“Dinner,” said the Quartermaster, stand-
ing up.
CHAPTER 11.
Ashore.
Two years later a square, ruddy man
stepped ashore. This time he came on the
brig Thetis and wore civilian clothes. Under
his rough blue serge, in a leather 'belt
against his skin, he carried his life’s sav-
ings. James Hyde had come to begin his
life in a new country.
He left his dunnage at the London Tavern
in George-street and at once set out to
explore. He must find a site for his store
near the harbor front, for ships must often
be provisioned and loaded without delay,
and the man on the spot was the man for
them. He must get his own wharf if he
could, so that he might be on the waterfront
yet not far from the markets where all
the live stock and fodder changed hands.
Afternoon found him prowling eagerly
along the paths that branched off George-
street where it stretched north past Sydney
Cove. They were tortuous, narrow ways,
that ended abruptly in blank faces of rock,
or gave on to flights of stone steps leading
to a lower level and, finally, through a
labyrinth to the water’s edge. The Quarter-
master pushed on, excitement growing in
him. He stood on fairly high ground, but
behind him it rose ever higher in rocky
ridges on whose slopes Fort Phillip stood.
Below him were the harbor waters curving
in from the right in a gentle sweep, shorn off
suddenly to the' left by a line of cliff. There
were wharves in the curve below, one or two
busy in the mellow afternoon sunlight un-
loading the ugly black whalers alongside,
others idle and deserted.
James Hyde looked down on them with
an appreciative eye.. He took off his hat
and scratched meditatively among his
grizzled curls. This was the place he had
been looking for—a wharf here with a sub-
stantial .store beside it, and his children
living with him over the business. That
was what he wanted.
The combined store and dwelling that he
presently secured in Windmill-street was a
two-storeyed building in the shape of a
squared U, convict-built of stone, and
already well seasoned with all the odors
of the sea. As the Quartermaster first saw
it, with its dilapidated iron-studded doors
made fast and all its shutters closed, it
was almost menacing, so blank as to
appear secretive. Its previous owner had
drunk, first, his profits, then his stock and,
finally, his life. His widow, who might
have been potable herself, so drained and
subdued was she, parted with her only asset
to the Quartermaster and returned to Eng-
land with all the air of a fugitive.
To the road the building presented a flat
rectangular face, broken in the upper storey
by six windows with small panes and pon-
derous wooden shutters; on the ground
floor by a great cavernous entrance into
which a waggon could be driven even by
a drunken driver. Above this entrance was
an iron bracket in the likeness of a gibbet
from which hung an oil lamp. It was lighted
every evening at sundown and gave out a
dusky golden gleam. The solid walls were
of streaky weathered yellow stone, bear-
ing on every few feet the broad arrow. The
store on the ground floor was very lofty,
so that the whole building stood unusually
high. It was roofed incongruously with
galvanised-iron, painted brown and blistered
by the sun.
The two wings stretched towards the
water and partially enclosed a stone-flagged
courtyard, the slabs already hollowed by
the tread of man}' feet and the rolling of
many casks. The great doorway was re-
peated on a smaller scale into the court-
yard, so that anyone standing in the road
could see right through the building to a
strip of water beyond. The ground floor of
the left wing was given up to “the hands.”
It had the ineradicable smell of old stone
buildings, the smell of food inherited and
gradually piled up from many meals, and
the odor of old wood scrubbed with com-
mon soap. The right wing was a stable
made to accommodate many horses. They
came in drafts from the farms round Camden,
Parramatta and beyond, picked animals, to
stamp and whinney in their boxes for a
few hours or a few days until a ship was
ready to take them to their purchaser—
the Honorable East India Company. The
second floor of this wing was a hay loft,
where fodder was stored both for immediate
use and for export with the horses.
The wharves were blackened, salt bitten
and crusted with barnacles. The Quarter-
master rubbed his chin a lot before he
bought them; but when the piles had been
scraped, the hardwood was found to be
sound. Three small ships could be berthed
at once, which was all the store could
manage for some time. There was room
to throw out another wharf when trade
demanded it.
Activity- at the store and the wharf ebbed
and flowed. Sometimes the men were work-
ing from sunrise until far into the night,
hurrying to and fro with lanterns, shouting
to one another. The girls in the room above
the store would lie awake and listen to them
and to the thud and rattle of the ships’ gear,
strange men at work loading the ships,
everywhere effort and urgency and excite-
ment. Then there was the lull, with
wharves and courtyard empty and all
the strange hands gone back into the
limbo whence they came. Only the per-
manent hands were left now—old Libby,
taciturn and gruff, about whom some un-
explained legend of loyalty clung; Jem,
the little wiry man with the stout young
wife who lived in some unspecified place
close by and was always sidling into the
yard to speak to her husband; George,
the young giant whose strength was dis-
counted by his lumbering piind; Jackie, the
boy who was somebody’s nephew but no-
bodj' knew whose; and Moses, the yellow
dog, asleep in the sun on the hot flags of


“Fanny was aware of Maud’s reproachful eyes following her.”
the courtyard. In the store the Quarter-
master and his pale young clerk, Benjamin
Shirley, plotted further activities.
About the store there was something
splendid and elemental. Coming out of
the brilliant sunshine it seemed immense
to the dazzled eyes. The merchandise
covered the floor and banked up almost to
the ceiling in an • epic confusion—barrels
of tar, kegs of rum and of negro-head
tobacco, great tubs of salted meat, sacks of
rice and of flour from Van Diemen’s Land,
dark-colored custard sugar in bamboo
baskets, great coils of clean, blond Manila
rope, festoons of nets, whalers’ outfits, sawn
timber and unsawn logs, cables and chains,
sluggish and full of strength, blankets of
the quality issued to sailors, brine and
tallow, hides and oil, everywhere homely,
strong, adventurous things in sufficient
quantities to be imposing.
There is nothing more impressive than
great masses of necessities. They seem to
give back some of the life they feed, to
cry out “Behold in us the foundation of
life!” Such a store inevitably had an atmo-
sphere of its own, a very mosaic of odors.
The Quartermaster came in time almost to
be able to gauge the quantities of his stock
by snuffing the atmosphere. When his son,
William, complained of it, he remarked
mildly that they were all good, healthy
smells, and would do him no harm.
Fanny and Maud, the Quartermaster’s
daughters, slept in a large upper room over-
looking the courtyard. The wharves were
not visible from their windows, but they
looked into the harbor. The moist breeze
brought the rank salt smell of the sea at
low tide, the sane male smell of tar, the
pungent smell of fish, the all-pervasive smell
of whale oil. For every smell there was a
sound, the rattle of ships’ gear, the chant of
straining men at the anchors, the ceaseless
lapping of the water against the sea-wall and
the hulls of ships, the changing voices of the
tides and sometimes in the night the pound-
ing, insistent beat of rain on the iron over
their heads. The oil that was bought so
dearly in effort and risk seeped through the
whole water-front; it clung to their clothes
and flavored their food. It was unforget-
table, hateful and yet the symbol of adven-
ture.
CHAPTER 111.
Foundations.
All her life Maud had been happy, and
now, at the store, she was happier than
ever. Her charms were as potent in the
new world as they had been in the old;
so all was well with the new world. She
liked the stir and bustle of the wharves,
the freedom from those conventions that
had cramped her style at school and in
her brief sojourn in her aunt’s drawing-
room. Above all, she loved the flavor of
masculinity that rose as incense to her
nostrils from the store and wharves below.
Lying in her narrow white bed, in the
brief interval before sleep came upon her,
she would listen to the lapping of the
water, now low so that she had to strain
her ears to catch it, now insistent as if
filled with a mysterious urgency. Listen-
ing to it she would think of herself as in
a ship at sea. going somewhere, she never
knew where, but somewhere splendid, with
a cargo of bonnets and pelisses and a crew
of handsome young sailors with flashing
teeth and tenor voices, and a master like
Captain Hildebrand, splendid and mysteri-
ous. If only she could have a white satin
bonnet, quilted at the back and embroid-
ered with gold thread like Miss Adelaide
Gillam’s!
But if she had a hundred bonnets what good
would they be to her when she and Fanny
hardly went out at all? If only William were
more amiable she knew papa would let
them go about. It was too bad that they
should be so dependent on William. A
poor female could hardly put her nose out-
side the door alone in Sydney. But she
wouldn’t think of that—or of the morning
when they heard a clatter in the road
and she and Fanny had run to the window
to peep out as they did a hundred times
a day. They had seen the convicts on
their way to Cockatoo, hundreds of them,
it seemed, fettered in twos, in the shame
of the broad arrow, sullen and meek and
dirty, a stream of filth in the sunlight.
She had known how dreadful they were
when she saw Fanny’s face, white and hard
and old, looking every day of her twenty-
three years. She had burst into tears, and
Fanny had pulled her away from the win-
dow ; but for ever so long they had heard
the chink-chink with .an undercurrent of
dusty shuffle and the clop of the guards’
horses. Even after the convicts had gone
they went on hearing it.
That night Maud had had a fit of
hysteria.
“I can’t,” she sobbed over and over again
—“Fanny. I can’t.”
“Can’t what, my dearest?”
“They built this place. I can’t ever sleep
here again.”
But she had slept at last in Fanny’s bed
and slept soundly enough, though in the
morning she was still resolved never again
to look out on the road.
Fanny had kept a wary eye on her sister
and had sought to divert her. Surely to-
morrow the Rosamund would come in—she
was a week overdue now—and then papa
would bring Captain Hildebrand up to
dinner. She blushed to think how much
food she had prepared the first time he
came—you would expect such a big man to
eat an ox, especially when he was just in
from the sea—and he had eaten hardly
anything. She hoped he would come; she
liked to hear his talk.
“I wish, oh I wish I was a man!” Fanny
exclaimed suddenly in the midst of her
trivialities. “I’d go whaling in Captain
Hildebrand’s boat, or I’d go exploring. I’d
ask Mr. Eyre to take me with him. I’d
like—oh I’d like to be hungry and thirsty
and burnt to a chip! Why doesn’t William
go? I wish I was William.”
A bubble of excitement rose and broke
in her throat. She was aware of herself in
her strong place on the coast, in the thin
fringe of habitation between the uncharted
seas and uncharted land. On one side was
the great sea where men risked their lives
for whale bone and oil, going south even
to the icebergs and out east to the Coral
Islands, whence the battered ships came in
with the hungry faces of sailors lining their
bulwarks—a vast field of effort and danger,
of harshness and courage. On the other
side of her was the great continent, limitless,
unknown. She could feel the effort there
—men and women in bark humpies or in
(Continued on page 52.)


Headuinamoment
always hade
ŕ
in the home
itissohandu
In 4 sizes
oFall Chemists & Stores
VICHY «
USDS
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by.
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled —Insist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere .
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
For a husky voice
Delightfully soothing -
and refreshing. The
flavour is delicious.
Your Chemist stocks
them —1/- and 1/9
per box.
Allen burys
Glycerine & __ _ ,
} Black Current PASTILLE'S
tin shanties, owning their land, breaking
the wilderness, in drought, in heat, coming
upon endless grass plains, the elusive rivers,
the diying creeks. She thought of Mr.
Eyre pushing out towards nothing, some-
thing, the unknown, enduring.
William, whom Fanny envied, saw little
enviable in his position. Even now he,
too, lay awake in his bed, staring at the
ellipse of light that gleamed all night un-
moving on his ceiling. It came from the
lamp in the courtyard below and William
hated it fiercely. He almost hated his father,
too, for the irresistible energy that had
caught him up from his quiet clerky English
life and swept him into a strange new life
where he felt incompetent, ashamed and ill
at ease. “I didn’t want to come,” he said
resentfully. “Why should I have to hobnob
with swaggering captains and greasy traders?
And then he makes a fool of me before
them all because'l won’t come down to
their level. Well, he can, if it amuses him;
but I won’t be hail-fellow-well-met with
every Tom, Dick and Harry—or every
Captain Hildebrand either.”
William stared with hot eyes at the light,
and it reminded him for the thousandth
time of his chief grievance. No one lived
over his store nowadays. Not another sea-
trader in Windmill-street lived at his busi-
ness. He felt that if only papa lived down
at the Battery the store might be all right.
The Gillams and the Moores and the Frank-
lins were all no better than the Hydes,
but they didn’t live at their stores. It
made all the difference. Papa cut such a
figure, owning his own wharf, and with his
interests in this trading concern and that
mill—it made them look ridiculous. “It’s
not fair to the girls,” William persisted.
“How can they ever get husbands living
here? Maud can beg as she pleases, I’ll
not take them anywhere while we are looked
down on for living at the store. Oh—and he
flung himself down on his bed, screwing his
head into his pillow—“I can’t ever bring
Adela here!”
He had come to the core of his trouble.
His mind drifted away to Adela and to his
wooing that had been ardent but gentle-
manly. He took tormented pleasure in
framing pictures from his memory of her,
pictures so incongruous with the crude set-
ting of his present home that he laughed
bitterly to the unresponsive light! Adela
as he had first seen her in the church at
Otway St. Mary’s, her grave eyes cast
down, the childlike outline of her face
showing clear and pure against the dark
background of the high pew; Adela play-
ing riotously as a ehild might play with her
puppy on the lawn, flushing painfully as
she realised the observation of a strange
male, sewing at her long seam with down-
cast eyes, not to be wooed from her stricken
silence; Adela in her mother’s drawing-
room dispensing tea, shy but friendly, listen-
ing to William’s plans for his future with
flattering encouragement.
William could have wept at the contrast
his present life offered to the career he
had unfolded to her willing ears; but his
thoughts raced on to that other rather dis-
concerting Adela with bare shoulders and
a fading musk carnation at her bosom who
had returned his kisses in the dark library.
Her flowing sleeves, William remembered,
had overturned a decanter of port, and with
one arm round his neck she had dipped
her forefinger in the dripping fluid and
traced a sticky perfumed A upon his fore-
head. William blushed at the recollection.
A of all letters —A for Adela, of course.
So he came to the last Adela—when he had
kissed her good-bye! In that parting she
had given him the sweetest moment of his
life.
He shivered a little with the sweetness of
remembered emotion, said slowly “My
affianced bride!” and shivered again. Her
father, of course, had been incensed at the
idea of his daughter coming to Australia.
He had swelled visibly, the port of a decade
had glowed in his face, but Adela had said
quietly and certainly: “I shall come when
you send for me, William; no one can stop
me when I am twenty-one. Don’t let them
frighten you, William.”
Poor Adela! How she must miss him!
How she loved him! At the reflection the
self-respect came flooding back into Wil-
liam’s heart.
“I’ll do something, Adela,” he promised
her across the sea. “I’ll work for you, my
dearest girl There’s papa coming to bed.
It must be nearly morning. I wonder what
he has been doing. Making money, I hope
—for Adela.”
The Quartermaster had been poring over
his books in the store, setting his bold black
figures beside the ethereal ones of the
careful Benjamin Shirley and dropping
blots on that young man’s scrupulous book.
He had sat for a long time with his broad
thumb planted on the month’s total, his
Wellingtonian nose raised to sniff future
and greater triumphs, deep in thought.
Then, drawing out a silver watch half the
size of his fist, and, seeing that it was one
o’clock, he had slapped together the books,
and, taking up the oil lamp, proceeded up
the wooden stairs that led to the dwelling
above. Behind him came the shadow of a
square, powerful man, broad in shoulder,
long of reach, the head serrated curiously
by tight grizzled curls. He pushed open
the door at the top of the stairs and stumped
along the corridor to his bare room, making
no effort to moderate his footfall.
As he undressed, his mind was still busy
with liis activities. “Creeping up, creeping
up. This month better than last, last better
than the one before. There’s money here
for a man of sense. I’ll not offer Giles a
penny more than two hundred pounds, not
a, penny—considering the trade I’ll bring,
it’s a fair thing. And a voice in the running
of the mill—no voice, no bargain. He ought
to see that’s for his own good, pigheaded
old fool! And we’ll grind only Australian
wheat. I ought to know good wheat when
I see it. Absurd to import wheat to a
country-like this! We’ll get plenty if we
pay for it; they’ll grow it for us. The
people I carry for will take it, and the
ships I provide’ll have to take it. Can’t
go wrong with flour—but not more than
two hundred pounds. I’ll build a mill my-
self if he won’t close, and cut him out.
Merchant princes in the new world! Old
Gillam doesn’t look much like a prince,
but he’s probably the solidest of them all.
His daughters look like princesses, though
bedizened little idiots—and Master Hum-
phrey’s a jackanapes, but his mother doesn’t
Next week’s “Bulletin,” besides printing a second large instalment
of The Quartermaster,” will be enriched by
“The City of Silence.”
This, by lon Idriess, is the most vivid pearling story ever written; also
“A Look at London,”
a brilliant record by Arthur H. Adams of how the great city strikes
one who sees it after 20 years.
think so, oh no! Hildebrand’s a good man
—the Navy does teach you to know men.
I don’t think I can go far wrong with him.
Don’t know that I’d trust him on land, but
he s the finest whaling captain afloat. The
Rosamund s small, but she’s a witch—l’d
like to handle her myself. It makes me
sick sometimes to see her going out with
her square sails against the sky and her bow
taking the water so gracious and so com-
fortable. She’s practically my own ship;
and Ive never sailed m her. When Hilde-
biand comes back I envy him, for there s
nothing sweeter than to come home from
danger and success, and to caR for your
rum in the peace of your heart.
He stood at his open window and listened
to the lap-lap of the water upon his seawall.
mSL
el infln cannot iollow tnc soa lor many vGdfs
and be free of it at once. “Money-grubber!"
he muttered, pulling his nightcap’ down over
his ears with a vicious tug.
But thoueh he could not have nut it
cut, tnougn ne couia not nave put it
into words, he knew m his heart that it
was not the money he wanted; that these
were only steps towards the ideal; that
there can be the splendor of courage in
merchant-venturing, and that a nation might
be built by such men as he more honorably
and more securely than by the swords of
conquerors. That he should set his shoulder
to the wheel in this new country, and by
his efforts build a house where his children’s
children might live in honor and security,
seemed to him as good a thing as a man
could do. .
rWAPTpvp TV
, , .
In the morning before it was properly
light, Maud awoke to a stir in the court-
yard. Jumping out of bed and peeping
from the window she saw against the pale
misty wash of the morning a group of figures
in oilskins, carrying lanterns.
“Fanny,” she called, “it’s the whalers
come in already!”
“Captain Hildebrand?”
“It must be he. Who else would be so
venturesome as to come in almost in the
dark, and a misty morning, too? I can see
the tethering post and the pump, all black
and wet, and a little bit of wall, nothing
else. I cannot see the harbor at all. It is
like a picture, Fanny, so very strange.”
She was kneeling at the open window, the
cold damp air driving the color from her
face, the little curls standing up round her
forehead.
“Why are you not curious, Fanny? It
is so strange; they are standing there as if
they did not know what to do. The men
are carrying something in a *tub—look!
Captain Hildebrand is standing apart. He
is in sea boots and a great-cloak.”
Fanny came too, and peered out over
Maud’s head.
“Something must have happened, they
come in so quietly.”
“Perhaps it is because it is so early.”
“Now the door is being unfastened. Papa
is going out.”
“Does papa ever sleep, do you think?”
“There is nothing the matter, but they
seem excited. They have had a good trip.”
“Look, Fanny, there is the tub—they are
carrying it right into the store. What
ever can it be? I smell something, too—
nice.”
“Soon we shall smell nothing but oil.”
They looked again into the empty court-
yard. It was very quiet now; the pump
and the tethering post gleamed wet and
black; the harbor was invisible, but the
courtyard seemed to be under a thin grey
film of water. The lamp still burned, but
its rays were so hedged in by mist that it
hung an impotent yellow blob. The store
had swallowed the men as completely as
if they had never been there.
The girls slept again in their warm beds
and the light folded in over the adventure
of the dawn. Two hours later, dressing by
candlelight in the unnatural darkness of the
early summer morning, and fumbling in
their drawers for merinoes laid aside a
month ago, Maud said “I dreamed the
whalers had come back and they carried up
something in a tub.”
“So it was true, then. I thought I had
dreamed it ever so long ago.”
It was true. The men were already at
work and the unloading had begun. The
captain himself- had come to breakfast.
Maud could not contain herself.
They trooped down the stairs to the store.
The mysterious tub held only a mass of
some thick waxy substance between grey
and yellow in color. A faint fragrance rose
from it and mingled with the odors of
the store. Maud was disappointed.
“Why, it’s ambergris!” said the captain.
“It is worth a guinea an ounce. I found it
floating in the sea, south of Van Diemen’s
Land. Rolling in our wash it was, for all
the world like a porpoise, and we caught it
in a net and pulled it aboard.”
“There’s five hundred pounds’ worth,”
said the Quartermaster, with satisfaction.
That day was like a carnival; the crew
were given extra rations of rum and made
very merry. The work of unloading went
with a swing.
Maud talked a lot about Captain Hilde-
brand. She would pause in her embroidery
and say suddenly, “He’s rather like a
Viking, don’t you think?” and Fanny
would start guiltily and ask, “Who, Maud?”
It was then- that Maud whispered her
great idea to Fanny. She thought he must
be Somebody, and Hildebrand was really
his Christian name. “I don’t mean that
he’s in hiding. But he has had to flee for
some good reason, and he is biding his time
or—or —he’s shielding somebody. The more
I think about it, Fanny, the more I feel
sure he’s Somebody.”
She even began to plague the Quarter-
master.
“Papa, do you not think Captain Hilde-
brand a very fine man?”
“He is a very good seaman, my dear.
“Does he not give you his confidence? I
mean, has he never opened his heart to
you?”
“Certainly not!”
"But, papa, surely you suspect?”
The Quartermaster laid down his knife
and fork. “Now, my girl, I won’t have
that. You can practise your pretty wiles
on the boys as much as you like, but you
are to leave Captain Hildebrand alone,
see?”
Maud opened her eyes wide and looked
innocent.
“But, papa, I never”
“Oh yes, you did. Stop'it.”
William moved restlessly in his chair,
aloof and supercilious. He disliked more
than anything else the appearance of
friendship into which his family had drifted
with the whaling captain. After the meal
he followed his father into the office
below.
“Is it necessary, papa, for us to receive
this Hildebrand as our guest V*
“Is there any reason why we shouldn’t,
William? Have you anything against the
man?”
“None of the other whaling captains pre-
sume to come. Bennett never does.”
“Not because he hasn’t been asked, but
he has his wife and family waiting for him
as soon as his boat gets in. If you don’t
think them good enough for us, my boy, let
me tell you some of the finest men I’ve
ever known were whalers. I don’t blame
you; you’ve learned your idea of whale-
men from this bay-whaling along the coast
here. That’s cheap and easy and you can
make quick money at it; but it’s not
whaling, it’s pig-sticking. The deep-sea
whaler is different; he’s a man, whatever
else he may be.”
“You heard Maud just now? Do you
think it desirable for him to meet the girls
on terms of friendship?”
The Quartermaster laughed. “Maud has
an eye for every man she sees. Her pretty
head is stuffed full of sentimental nonsense,
but it’s screwed on the right way, I’ll be
bound.”
It was only Maud; the thought of Fanny
never entered the head of either.
But while Maud talked of Captain Hilde-
brand Fanny thought of him. He and the
Rosamund had sailed again almost at.once,
hardly waiting for the necessary refitting
of the boat. Fanny thought of him in
danger, and the thought was constantly with
her. “It is at me he looks, not Maud,”
she thought, and the reflection was very
pleasing.
When he came again' after a shorter
voyage to the east, he brought Fanny a
gift. They were standing for the moment
alone by the entrance to the store. The
captain opened his hand and there on the
palm lay a piece of coral, as red as a rose
and a finger in length. It was perfectly
smooth and branched to a fine reticulation,
so that it was like a little magic tree.
“It is for you, Miss Fanny; I found it
in the sea.”
She was so happy in the gift that she
could not show it even to her sister.
“By the way, Fanny, where is the coral
Captain Hildebrand gave you?” inquired
her father that evening as she set the
decanter before him after dinner. “He
tells me it is very perfect, though not of
much value. I’d like to see it if you have it
handy.”
“Oh,” said Fanny, “the coral! I must
have put it down somewhere. It is quite
pretty.”
As she left the room she was aware of
Maud’s hurt and reproachful eyes follow-
ing her. It flashed into her mind to break
the coral, but she could not do it.
Before Captain Hildebrand had been gone
three days Fanny was reconciled to her
coral and to him. She found excuses for
(Continued on page 58.)


FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
... .
MADE
IRITIS H
Perfection
PINK ROBBER.
FOR ALL SPORT
BUY
THE SPORTING GLOBE
The Leading Australian Authority with the largest
staff of Sporting Experts and Special Representatives
in all States. The staff includes:—
‘MUSKET” The Turf
•BAIL” Cricket
W. S. SHARLAND Football
PAT O’HARA WOOD Tennis
J. J. MAHER Cycling
J. M. DILLON Golf
A. L. DOBBIE Rowing
TOM MORLEY Coursing
MAURIE COLLINS •' Bowls
H. C. BROOKE Yachting
New South Wales edition available—
every Thursday, price 3d.
amir
a
9
P
i
r
ASTHMA
80WP55
For the relief of
ASTHMA, CATARRH,
WHOOPING COUGH,
BRONCHITIS and
COLD IN THE HEAD
For outdoors, use Potter's
Smoking Mixture and Cigarettes
2/6 per Tin from all Medicine
Vendors.
POTTER & CLARKE, Ltd.
Artillery Lane,
London, Eng
TTBwI
OfIATIFICATro^
r 1 v,
\ 1:
m m
V v,
\
S^e
Aetna!
Epicurean taste finds perfect
gratification in these famous
Havana Cigars. See full name
on every band.
“la corona
hajlf-a- c or. on a
Handsome Men Have
Well-groomed Hair
SECRET OF YOUTHFUL POPULARITY.
“Oh! I thought you were much older than that.
I suppose your hair gives that impression.” Not
very tactful, but that’s how women think of a
man whose hair is thin or grey. Keep your hair
young and you are young. Use “Vi-Glo” and
watch results! See it grow new hair in quick
time; see the rich color come back; the grey tinges
go! Watch the ladies! You’ll know by that how
successful “Vi-Glo” is. Don’t regard “Vi-Glo” as
a hair wash; it’s a scientific scalp-invigorator. Costs
only 3/- for the complete outfit at any chemist’s, or
you can get it by post for 3/4 from Vi-Glorient
Company, Kembla Building, Sydney. Money back
if not surprised and delighted with the quick results.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY'S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
An Ideal Winter Home—The Most Sheltered Spot on the Harbor, with c Pn^ at ®.
Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort—Excellent Cuisine and service. Spacious C ou
and Garage Accommodation.
Winter Tariff from 4| guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines). Management M. E. BURRO» S.
ŗ
A. 380
Food
ř
When mother is unable
to nurse baby, the best food
is fresh cows’ milk, suitably
modified. Benger’s has
proved itself to be one of
the best of milk modifiers.
Send for Bengers Booklet, post free.
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd.,
350, George Street, SYDNEY.
Have your own car while in
England ~©»
guaranteed
repurchase
terms
The Pass and Joyce system ensures that your
visit to England will be well spent.
You choose your car from a large selection
of leading makes. ■
Pass and Joyce guarantee to re-purchase the
car for an agreed price at the end of your stay.
Deferred payment terms are arranged on a most
generous basis. , ,
You are relieved of all tiresome details by
expert service.
In this way Pass and Joyce save you worry,
time and part of your travelling expenses.
You’ll need a car when in the Old Country—
so get it the Pass and Joyce way! Detailed
brochure on application to Manager, Ihe
Bulletin, 214 George Street North, Sydney.
London’s Leading
Automobile Agents.
RRSS^JOYCE
373-375 Euston Road, LONDON, N.W.I, England.
WEED TYRE CHAINS
Grip and hold under all
road conditions, eliminat-
ing costly delays and insur-
ing safe, positive traction.
Every motorist needs them.
Made in Regular and De
Luxe Patterns. In sizes to
fit all tyres—pneumatic or
solid.
Order from your dealer.
R
WEED TYRE CHAINS
boe
m
Rheumatism used to be considered an ailment due
to exposure; and it was thought natural that
outdoor workers should srtffer from this painful
trouble. New knowledge has shown that rheu-
matism has little to do with the weather, but
is due to uric poison in the blood. We now
know that rheumatism affects the heart, and almost
all deaths from heart disease in people under
forty are due to rheumatic infection.
The remedy consists in getting rid of the uric
poison, and the best way to do this is to take
Harrison’s Pills. These pills include a combination
of eight of the most valuable agents known for
the removal of uric poison and deposits and for
the successful treatment of kidney, bladder and
urinary disorders. Harrison’s Pills give prompt
relief from aches and pains and a speedy return
to normal good health and fitness, even where all
other backache and rheumatism remedies have
completely failed. Yet Harrison’s Pills cost but
2/- for 18 Pills, 3/- for 32 Pills, or 5/- for 68
Pills, at any chemist’s. Insist on having Harri-
son’s PillSj and so quickly drive out a trouble
which is as dangerous as it is painful.
HARRISON’S
KIDNEY &
BLADDER
PILLS
Drive Out the Pain by Driving out the Cause
Amalgamated Laboratories, Kembla Building, Sydney; and all chemists and stores.
“Suburban ”
Afforestation
Every person who has read or has been told
about afforestation —whether he has invested
or not —should send for particulars now of
A.N.Z.I.L. PERPETUAL INCOME AND
THRIFT BONDS.
A gilt-edged investment and an entirely new conception of afforestation offering
IMMEDIATE, INTERMEDIATE and FUTURE RETURNS, with the soundest principles of
scientific and properly-conducted planting for profit yet offered.
Afforestation and Flax—Plus Interest and Insurance.
Investigate!—To do so is to INVEST.
AUSTRALIAN & NEW ZEALAND INVESTMENTS, LTD.,
17 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Shipping,
TO EUROPE-
Via UNITED STATES & CANADA
See Honolulu, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Chicago,
Niagara Falls, New York, Vancouver, Montreal,
Quebec, and travel across the Atlantic on one of
the luxurious CUNARD LINERS, including the
R.M.S. Aquitania, R.M.S. Berengaria
46,000 tons. 54,000 tons.
R.M.S. Mauretania,
30,000 tons.
In conjunction with
THE CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL
LINE.
Via VANCOUVER.
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE.
OCEANIC-MATSON LINE.
Via SAN FRANCISCO.
Return Tickets issued by the Suez Canal and Cape
Lines are available for this route.
Apply for particulars of reduced through rates to
UNfON STEAM SHIP CO, LTD.,
OCEANIC-MATSON LINE,
or
CUNARD LINE (C. & D. Line),
1 Bent Street, Sydney.
For Sale.
Auxiliary Schooner For Sale.
DOYAL ENDEAVOR, 60-ton; length,
76ft.; beam. 18ft.; draught, Bft. 6in.;
60-h.p. Skandia crude-oil engine, installed
1925; speed, 7 knots ; carrying capacity, 45
tons dead weight.
This handsome vessel, thoroughly well
found in every respect, and well known in the
Solomon Islands as a splendid sailer, will
be available for inspection in a few weeks
at Samarai, Papua.
Price, £3500.
For further particulars apply owners: —
MALAYTA CO., LTD.,
72 King Street, Sydney.
Telegraphic Address, “Malayta, Sydney. ’
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN AND RELATING
TO SPARKING-PLUGS SUITABLE FOR
INTERNAL-COMBUSTION ENGINES.
The proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 7165/27 is prepared to negotiate for tire
sale of his rights in the above, or for the
granting of a license to make, use and vend
the invention within the Commonwealth ot
Australia on reasonable terms. Particulars
obtainable from GRIFFITH & HASSKL,
Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
INCUBATORS.
The proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No 6895/22 is prepared to negotiate for the
sale of his rights in the above, or for the
granting of a license to make, use and vena
the invention within the Commonwealth
of Australia on reasonable terms. Particulars
obtainable from GRIFFITH & HASSEL,
Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney. ..
Missing Friends.
D 7? PATRICK GRAHAM, Deceased.—
A Will any person knowing the where-
abouts of any relative of PATRICK
GRAHAM, formerly of Tunnack, in las-
mania, who died at the New Town Infirmary,
Hobart, on 13th November, 1916, communi-
cate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Hobart?
JOHN FRANCIS WALLACE.—If this
J should meet the eye of John Francis Wal-
lace, formerly of Wurruk Wurruk, near Sale,
in Victoria, he is requested to communicate
with Messrs. STAVELEY & STIRLING,
Solicitors, Foster Street, Sale, from whom
he will hear to his advantage.
JIOWARD. —DAVID EDGAR HOWARD,
*1 or anyone knowing his whereabouts,
please communicate with the undersigned.
Interest in his mother’s estate. A. A.
HOWARD, 14 Prospect Road, Summer Hill,
Sydney. ,
JOHN RYAN.—If JOHN RYAN, nephew
J of William Mahoney, late of Ballyliurst,
Killarney, Victoria, will communicate with
the undersigned, he will hear of something
,« his advantage. y w p OW LING,
Solicitor, Port Fairy.
Legal Notice.
EOFFREY KINGSTON SHAW husband
of LOIS SHAW of Auckland married
woman. ,
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been
issued out of the Supreme Court of New
Zealand at Auckland citing you to appear
and answer the Petition of LOIS SHAW oi
Auckland married woman wherein she prays
for a dissolution of her marriage with you
on the ground of desertion and such Cita-
tion intimates that in default of your so
doing the Court will proceed to hear the
said petition and to pronounce sentence
therein notwithstanding your absence Now
therefore take notice that for the purpose
aforesaid you are within forty-two days after
date of this publication to attend in person
or by your Solicitor at the Supreme Court
Office at Auckland and there to enter an
appearance without which you will not be
allowed to address the Court at any stage
of the proceedings. . , ■ . .
A Copy of the said Citation and Petition
will be supplied to you on your applying for
the same at the Supreme Court Office at
Auckland. , „
DATED this ninth day of May, 1929.
[l.s.] S. A. CLEAL,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly
requested to forward to him the foregoing
advertisement.
ROBERT McINTOSH GRANT is the
Solicitor for the Petitioner, whose address
for service is at the office of the said Robert
(Mclntosh Grant, 309 Chancery Chambers,
O’Connell Street, in the City of Auckland.


ŕ
2*>
:*af
IV- • .•*£
Rubber Sheeting,
3/6
Suede . . S/6
Others at 7/6
and upwards.
A Masterpiece in
BLADE RAZORS!
THE “SILVA BEL
Hand - forged,
hollow - ground,
of the finest Sil-
ver Steel. For
saloon or private
use
SHH 6
PRICE,
9/6
Carriage paid on Smokers’ Requisites and
Razors.
MICK SIMMONS Lid.
Headquarters: 720 Haymarket,
Sydney.
ŗ
&
Ok
.* ' ,,v *.
‘ W v
«\> **.
K'v
"'"'V
travels 11 days, SAFELY
on ONE water supply***
Your Car,
Soo miIes,SAFELY on »
ONE complete lubrication /
Drive a camel beyond his “lubrication” limit
and there is trouble. So it is with a motor
car. Then you meet the irresistible forces of
wear and tear and friction. You pay repair
bills of which 80 per cent are due to this one
easily avoided cause.
Of course you will not take this chance when
Alemite —the scientific method of complete
lubrication—may be had so easily and econom-
ically. For with Alemite, used regularly every
500 miles, the chief soulfce o(f mechanical
trouble is removed.
Alemite forces lubricant, under tremendous
pressure, to every Vital Chassis Bearing on
your car. It pushes out old, gritty grease, forc-
ing in clear, clean, solidified oil. That’s why 95
per cent of all American cars now manufac-
tured are equipped with Alemite.
We suggest you ask your nearest dealer or
write for full particulars.
What Alemite-ing Does
for Any Car
1. BEARINGS: GenuineAlemit eHighPressure
lubricant forced into every vital chassis bear-
ing with Alemite equipment. Every 500 miles.
2. GEARS: Differential and transmission thor-
oughly flushed out by a special Alemite process.
New Alemite Gear Lubricant forced in. Every
2,500 miles.
3. SPRINGS: Given an Alemite Graphite
Spring Bath. They are sprayed with special
Alemite Graphite Penetrating Oil—every 500
miles. Eliminates squeaks and makes car run
smoother.
Genuine Alemite-ing—every 500
miles—costs no more than ordinary,
inefficient “greasing.” Then notice
how your repair bills decrease; how
much better your car runs.
tßrnJ
See your nearest dealer or write for particulars.
ALEMITE MANUFACTURING CORPORATION
DIVISION OF STEWART-WARNER
Chicago, U.S. A.
Full particulars from
MR. KENNETH J.G. SMITH
Resident Manager,
250 Pitt Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following Representatives:
Bennett & Wood, Ltd 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
Motor Supplies, Ltd. Brisbane
Atkins (W. A.), Ltd 894 Hay Street, Perth
E. A. Machin & Co., Ltd. . 535 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
Cornell Limited, 122 Pirie Street, Box G. P. 0., 496 E., Adelaide
For the Dominion of New Zealand:
Jas. J. Niven & Co, . 152 Wakefield Street, Wellington, N. Z.
ALEMITE
High Pressure Lubrication
■ 1 " 1 . j bIT
5
\
X
FV.
"W
t
m \
A '
XX wssia s®* 5
MM
eN£
CR S
The sooner
pou SIMONIZ
Your Car
the BetterV y
sts
tot]
f
DUCO
in its
Beautiful Vivid
Colors Protected
by SIMONIZ
’"J' IHOUSANDS 1 HOUSANDS of wise motor-
ists will tell you to
Simoniz your new car so as
to keep the colors from fading
and make the finish last
longer.
Simoniz, easily applied with a
cloth, provides a beautiful sur-
face of protection that lasts for
many months. Simoniz stands
the wear and tear the finish
usually gets, and keeps it bright
and new.
If your car is dulled and
worn looking, Simoniz
Kleener will quickly and
easily restore the appa-
rently lost lustre and
renew all colors.
INSIST ON SIMONIZ
—and always drive a good-looking car.
Sold by all Good Motor Houses, Service Stations and
Hardware Stores at 2/6 Small Cans; 6/- Large Cans.
In case you cannot obtain locally, see note below.
ANOTHER WONDERFUL
M
A
D
E
I
N
A
U
S
T
R
A
L
I
A
ř
SIMONIZ
PRODUCT—
SIMONIZ
PENETRATING
GRAPHITE
OIL
“LOOSENS THE TIGHTEST NUT.”
Simoniz Penetrating Graphite Oil
instantly
DISSOLVES RUST,
LUBRICATES CAR SPRINGS,
STOPS CHASSIS AND BODY
SQUEAKS,
FREES GUMMED MOTOR VALVES
LOOSENS ALL TIGHT NUTS
AND BOLTS.
Sold in handy Boz. can with long spout. Price 2/6.
IP YOU CANNOT OBTAIN SIMONIZ PRODUCTS
FROM YOUR USUAL DEALER, SEND POSTAL
NOTE TO
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS,
MOTORITE EQUIPMENTS PTY. f LTD.,
Carlton, Melbourne.
rnrc CAMDI FC OF SIMONIZ AND
ri\LL oMiYirLto kleener on request.
AVI
Apply urith a cloth


ŕ
TecalemiT
LUBRICATING
GUNS
✓r
Any machine can he fitted
for a few pence per point
with Tecalemit Lubrication.
YOU SAVE MONEY
in man hours, lubricant and renewals by so doing.
TECALEMIT SERVICE STATIONS:
Atkins (VV.A.)j Ltd., Hay Street Perth
Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street Adelaide
Alexander Mair & Co., Ltd., McEwan House, Elizabeth St., Melbourne
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt Street Sydney
Martin, Wilson Bros., Ltd., 299 Adelaide Street Brisbane
Factory Representative: Mr. JAMES THORNELL, 312 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
TECALEMIT, LTD., Mitre House, Scrubbs Lane, London, N.W. 10., England.
A ROGUE IN AMBER.
BY-J.B. COOPER
Illustrations by- Pe.ro/ Lii\dsey.
Chapter XIX.
CLINTON and Felspar left the Detec-
tive Office together. Clinton was
the first to speak.
“I’m sorry for you, Felspar. You have
had bad luck right through. You can get
rid of the woman by divorce easy enough,
and no doubt you will do so. The other
wound—l refer, of course, to Betty’s mar-
riage—is not quite so easy to bear.”
“Thanks, Mr. Clinton. A man cannot say
much, you know, when his heart
Anyway, it was not Betty’s fault. She tried
hard enough to keep me off the grass. I
’ Fooled myself, and I’m glad she’s going
to marry a good fellow. As for myself, I
must get out of this, and have booked a
passage by the Dernier Chance. She leaves
to-morrow for Marseilles, and I go with her.
When I am in Paris, I intend to toss the
camea brooch into the Seine.”
“A strange fancy that,” said Clinton, look-
ing curiously at Felspar, as a man looks at
another whom he does, not think is normal.
“It is and it is not,” replied Felspar iin
explanation. “The whole tiling has been
strange—as strange as truth' sometimes is.
To think that I should have bought a
brooch with dancing figures carved upon it
symbolical of joy!”
“Well, Felspar, the riddles of life often
take some solving, but Time usually does it.
All I can say is Bon voyage! and God-
speed!”
* * #
When Carducei was thrust into a cell it
seemed as if the iron bolt of the door was
shot through his heart. He stood behind
( lie studded door, dazed, at a loss what to
think, or to do. With a gesture of despair,
he began to pace up and down the cell.
He picked up the roll of blankets. They
reeked of fumigation. He threw them away
angrily.
• Tired of pacing, he sat down on the floor,
with his back against the wall, drew his
knees up, and buried his face in his hands,
overcome with despair. They had taken
his gold cross from him, and only evil could
follow! An Evil Eye looked at him through
the trap-door. The saints have pity on
him ! If only he had Jeannette, the good
Jeannette, she would save him! She would
pray to St. Catharine, but he, under the
influence of the Evil Eye, had smashed St.
Catharine! The saints forgive him!
Jeannette! Jeannette! She would save
his soul and body. Had she not spirited
him away from Paris and prevented the
police from finding him? Jeannette, the
cleverest woman in the world!
Ah, had he been advised by her in Aus-
tralia as he was advised by her in Paris!
There she had arranged with a friend of
hers to have him concealed in a market
cart, and so they had driven out of Paris
under the very eyes of the police. Was it
not Jeannette who, when they were out in
the country, out of sight of Paris, thopght
ot the disguise of strolling gypsies? A
wonderful woman, who even thought to
bring his fiddle, when he was too panic-
stricken to think. They had travelled on
the road to Lyons, playing and begging,
Jeannette telling to the simple peasants of
their fortunes, until they reached Toulon!
Ai d all the while he had concealed in a
bag beneath his coat the Baroness’s jewel-
lery with the wallet of 20,000 francs in his
pocket. And was it not Jeannette who
bribed a captain of a fruit schooner, trad-
ing to the Levant, to give them a passage
to Naples? What a wife! Jeannette,
Jeannette! The good God bless her!
Carducci’s eyes filled with tears, and it
was not long before he broke down com-
pletely, thinking of his life,, his wife, his
daughter and of all he had lost. Nothing
now remained before him but four stone
walls and an iron-sheathed door which shut
out hope from his heart. They were but
the .first stages to perpetual banishment in
New Caledonia, in the convict settlement
of lie Nou! The thought of such an end
almost stayed the flow of blood through
his heart.
In his frenzy of fear, his mind unhing 1,
he was obsessed with the idea that he must
see his wife.
“Jeannette! Jeannette!” he shouted with
the full force of his powerful voice.
The name reverberated through the
watchhouse, but only echoes answered him.
Maddened by the mockery, he called her
name again and again till the whole watch-
house fang—“ Jeannette! Jeannette!”
The sergeant could not permit this be-
havior to continue. Carducei was making
the place like a madhouse. Angrily
he went to the cell. He let down the small
trap-door and asked the Italian what the
noise was all about.
Carducei did not appear to notice him.
He continued to cry: “Jeannette! Jean-
nette!”
"bhut up, can’t you? Have you gone
mad?”
“Jeannette! Jeannette!”
The”3sergeant was’ human. He had a
sneaking pity for the agonised Italian who
was so obviously a broken wreck.
“It is no use calling,” he said more gently.
“They say they have done with you.”
“Done? Done?” asked Carducei half-
da-zed, with his Tight‘hand to his head, try-
ing to think what that could mean.
“Yes, ’ said the sergeant, with his hand on
Carducci’s shoulder, and speaking slowly.
“They will have nothing more to do with
you. They showed the constable their
tickets for the steamer Dernier Chance to
Marseilles. She leaves to-morrow, and they
go in her. Your wife said she intended to
live in Paris, where she was born. Do you
understand me?”
“My God, it is the end!” exclaimed Car-
ducci, his head dropping on his chest.
He turned his face to the prison wall.
It was not harder than his fate. He was
overcome by a feeling as of the loneliness
of death, He was numbed by the horror of
an enduring desolation, by the loss of
everything that was intimate to him.
The sergeant closed the cell door. Later
he looked in and saw his prisoner huddled,
like a wounded animal, in the corner of
tiie cell, his head between his knees, his
arms loose beside them.
“Poor devil! Taking his gruel badly!”
said the sergeant to the watchhouse keeper.
The following week Carducci was for-
warded, in charge of two policemen, to
Sydney. When he and his escorts arrived
he was conveyed direct to the Criminal
Investigation Department. Four detectives
were in a room with Frangois Neigrc, who
was handcuffed. Carducci was brought in,
and stood before Neigre.
“Do you recognise this man?” asked the
sergeant detective, indicating Carducci.
. “Yes!” replied Neigre. “I know him. He
is Antonio Carducci, but his real name is
Antonio Saccaco, and he is the man who
was with me when Baroness Bellarosa was
robbed and died from heart disease. He,
the dog, it was who was the real voleur,
the real thief, for he beat me for my share
of the robbery. Mon Dieu! I know him!
The dog!”
Carducci’s face flamed, his eyes blazed.
With murderous passion he sprang at
Neigre, intending to seize him by the throat
and break his neck.
Neigre was not surprised. They knew
one another, these two men, better than
the detectives knew either of them. There-
fore at the instant Carducci was within
reach, Neigre, “La Savate,” kicked a forward
drive with his right foot, using all his
strength and skill.
Carducci gave a great gasp and doubled
up; then a wailing, long-drawn groan Came
from him, as his body toppled over and
fell on its side. A convulsive tremor ran
through him, and his limbs twitched. Then
he lay still.
“La Savate.” shrugged his shoulders.
A doctor came quickly and knelt beside
Carducci.
Two minutes went by. Then he arose.
“The man is dead!” he said.
The End.
May Night.
All of the roses in all the world
Breathe in this moon-enchanted place,
As though a strange, faint incense curled
IJp from the urns of a strange, new race.
Walking in grasses with scarce a stir.
Breaking the seeding stalks and fronds,
Veiled m an opal gossamer,
Trampling the dew’s Avhite diamonds,
I go, I go! And suddenly,
Small and lost and half-afraid,
I am caught in a wave of porphyrv,
Sapphire-dark, and shot with jade.
O fair and scintillating night.
Pale-mooned and frosted o’er with stars,
So easily from mortal sight
To drift across your outer bars
To some far plane upon the rim
Of your so-pale translucent blue—
Be wafted, and, forgotten, dim,
Be- lost, May night, dissolved in you !
QUEENSLAND.
E.M. ENGLAND.
The Unknown Track.
1 hough much I have travelled by slope and
height,
Much journeyed by beach and sea,
Alone I am treading a track to-night
That is all unknown to me.
As on it I wander, now high, now low,
Strange hollows and ridges o’er,
■*As bordered by trees that I do not know
And never have seen before.
As. leaves in a pallid light agleam,
They stir and sigh in the breeze,
More like unto ghostly things they seem
Than to green and living trees.
Pale light of high stars is round me thrown,
As onward I journey far—
No light of such lanthorns have I known
Since first I looked up at a star.
What time, with a staff and a pilgrim-pack
Uphill and down hollow I wend
Alone in the night on the Unknown Track
I wonder where it will end.
There’s hope in my heart that, when hours
have passed
And done with are travail and care,
I 11 come to a warm, lit home at last,
And meet with a welcome there.
A hope’s in my heart, that there I shall find
though weary and worn and cold,
bure shelter at lapt, and a greeting kind
From friends whom I loved of old.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Banking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital
Capital Paid Up and Reserves ~ ..
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1928..
£5.000.000
£3.300.965
£18.623,153
Directors:
Sir MARK SHELDON, K.8.E., Chairman.
FR ANK N. YARWOOD; H. H. LYSAGHT, 0.8. E.;
GEORGE J. SLY. LL.D. ; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER; C. M. C. SHANNON.
CHIEF INSPECTOR: W. G. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH : G 2 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.
The BANK is represented by 1 86 Branches
and. Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, with Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 010,210
Ordinary Shares 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,732,525
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
a t interest for
fixed periods
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament 1865,
and Registered under the Cohipanies Act 1892,
of South Australia.)
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 306 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET
Paid Up Capital £1,250,00*0
Reserve Fund 970,000
Reserve liability of shareholders
£2,220,000
1,260,000
„ , £3,470,000
Also 115 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENIIALL STREET, E.c!
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
THINK OF
r
SCHUTE,
BELL & C?td.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office): 44 Bridge Street, Sydney,
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, (3d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 -Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
nr 434 Collins Street. Melbourne.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN CDUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISDAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAD ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNED CDUB
N.Z, GODF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. PODO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to—
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of the World’s Dending
Advertising Agencies.
Shipping, etc.
S£Vt
'• %
h*
cV
r
At the Cost
of a
City Holiday
Hawaii
Hawaii in winter is the Riviera
of the Pacific. Its gay capital,
Honolulu, is a city of flowers and
fascination from its famous surf to
its summit. The giant Canadian-
Australasian liners, the finest fleet
on the Pacific run, assure a refresh-
ing holiday voyage.
Tahiti
An alternative excursion is
offered by the visit paid to
Raratonga and Papeete by
the Union Company’s
steamers. The coral-girt
islands of Tahiti are en-
joyed by an ever-increasing
number of tourists, especi-
ally when winter tempers
the tropical sunshine.
WINTER EXCURSIONS
* To Hoho/ulu
£75 First and £55 Second (return)
Niagara leaves Sydney May 30
Makura „ „ June 27
Aorangi „ „ July 25
To Tahiti
£55 First and £4O Second (return).
Maunganui leaves Sydney June 13
Tahti „ July 11
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., 247 George Street, Sydney.
S9 William Street, Melbourne, Cl.
111
n
mm
m
1
Si
W 2&
A VISIT TO JAVA
(The Garden of the East)
Seven weeks’ wonderful tour, via Brisbane, Queens-
land Ports, Thursday Island, Torres Strait & Darwin,
including 1 4 days’ escorted motor trip through Java.
Leaving Sydney on the 6th June, 1929, and 7th
August, 1929, by the magnificent steamer
“MARELLA,” 7500 TONS
Swimming Bath, Gymnasium, Deck Cabins, Verandah
Cafe, etc.
First-class inclusive round fare covering all
expenses—Steamer trip, Hotels, Motor-cars,
Guides, Tips, etc.: —
From Melbourne £135 0 0
From Sydney £129 0 0
From Brisbane £l2B 10 0
BURNS, PH I LP COMPANY LIP.
SVDNEY AND BRAN CH OFFICES
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund. .
Reserve Liability
ŕ
£7,500,000
5,900,000
7,500,000
£20,900,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30. 1928, £88.982,585.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
554 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji Patma
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world’
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated’
C re dit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP -------- £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4 075 000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
• £13,553,025 0 0
D'lt'OotOT'S *
TT c GEORGE JUDAH COHEN ( Chairman ) ;
Hon- Sir HUGHES, M.L.C. ; Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C •
OWEN ESMOND FRIEND; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHVRST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
T> , London Office—lB Birehin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra
federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
_ , Ml Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.;
• 'OR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping for outports).
FOR BRISBANE, MACKAY, TOWNSVILLE, CAIRNS
(Transhipping for outports).
Come and See —See and Stay.
HAWAII
HAWAII
HAWAII
To enable holiday makers and travellers to visit
these beautiful island gems of the South Pacific,
excursion rates are available all the year round.
First-class passages from £75, second-class from
£55, with first-class Hotel Accommodation as
low as from 12/- to £3 per day with meals,
assist the pleasure seeker to make the Hawaiian
Islands the real dream holiday.
Surfing, surfboard-riding, golf, tennis and
motoring (motorists may bring their own cars
or hire one locally at exceptionally low rates),
can all be indulged to the fullest in ideal
surroundings. Inter-island cruises. Visit
Kilauea volcano.
Come, here is the holiday of a lifetime offering
in
HAWAII—HAWAII—HAWAII
Inquire fullest particulars at all steamship or
travel agents, or from this office direct.
HAWAII TOURIST BUREAU,
Dept. 26, Box 162788, G.P.0.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
BRISBANE,via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday eveniag;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/S/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/16/■
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/*
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHARMS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart ParkerLiM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand' ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars appIyHUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
HAS ACCEPTED
t!%
££&
master
NEWS PICTORIAL
with the utmost enthusiasm.
ALL THE NEWS I
ALL THE PICTURES!
The State’s First Morning
Pictorial.
Largely increased Sales
already assured.
Arrange Contracts at
present rates.
HEAD OFFICE: REGISTER NEWS-
PAPERS, LIMITED, Grenfell Street,
Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative: Eric N. Birks.
Sydney. Tel. X 5187.
Melbourne Representative: G. N.
Bednall, “Argus” Building, Mel-
bourne. Tel. F4SO2.


WesfclosC
Big B
%
America
0
( >
o
10
<2
o
(>
4
6
Bain/ Hen
%
Put your trust in Westclox
time and a sure alarm are
every day necessities. A trustworthy
alarm clock is needed in every home.
When you select a Westclox, you are
sure ol long satisfactory timekeeping service.
Usefulness, attractiveness, known and
lasting value make Westclox famous all
over the world.
Prices range from 8/6 to 28/6.
Built by the makers of Big Ben and other Westclox
WESTERN CLOCK COMPANY, LA SALLE, ILL., U.S.A.
BROWN & DUREAU LTD., Distributors for Australia
MELBOURNE - SYDNEY - PERTH - BRISBANE
cccccrq
-
r '
-pggg 2
BPS
tiif
■ lfeS§
i
m
*3V 1
irw
v
Mailed to you the
day they are made
Qi? famous Red Box oP GhocohleS
OS,
osb free ho amy
address in Chistralia.
CpATONj
#
HILL
CHOCOLATES
PR.I C ES
3/-. 5/6 . 6/-. 10/-.
20^*^304
ADDUBSS
ŗ
162-166 Ritt Str.e ex
SYDNEY^
ř
CATAU^UEiILLOSTRATED Jrt/ITH REPRODUCTIONS ~ofcrOUß. OONFECTIQNERyj
9*
“Hell Hath No Fury —”
ř
ALYS BROWN'S
r
ŕ
I SAW him first in a wooded dell just off
the track to the headland. The little
clearing was a tempting pool of shade on
that hot morning, and I lingered awhile be-
fore the climb.
After the stink of copra and cockroaches
on the boat, and decaying fish and rotten
seaweed in the village, the fresh, sweet smell
of that jungle glade met me like a soft and
perfumed caress, whilst the vivid green-
ness of its mossy carpet, with the hanging
walls of starry-flowered creepers dripping
from every branching arm of tin* great trees,
rested my eyes, weary with the blinding glare
of the tropical sun.
I sat on a fern-clustered stump smoking
contentedly, watching a tiny waterfall splash-
ing in a silvery stream from the rocks above
to a pebbly basin below; day-dreaming, half
expecting some woodland nymph with flower-
decked hair to dance out of that tangled mat
of greenery.
.Still, it was a bit of a shock when I
caught sight of a face peering at me from
behind tin* trunk of a giant hclu tree. No
nymph, though! More like a gnome! An
old face set in a frame of long, white hair
and beard —a face seamed with wrinkles and
tattooed with a most amazing design of
scrolls and whorls, dots and dashes—bizarre
setting for a pair of eyes blue as sapphires.
I stared at that face like a man in a dream,
and only as it vanished did I realise that
it was the face of a white mau. Springing
to my feet, I ran across to the tree; but no
one was there, and, though I halloed several
times, I got no answer, except from an angry
white cockatoo I had disturbed, which swore
vigorously at me.
The voice of the little stream bubbling
from the basin still ran on, gurgling and
lisping its way over the stones, and a pair
of long-tailed pigeons cooed love words to
each other when the cockatoo had finished
giving her opinion of me. I began to think
I had imagined that face, or else I had
seen Hailccri-ula, the one-legged sprite of
the waterfall, of whom the old native tale-
tellers weave many a legend. Still, I doubted
if native spirits had blue eyes, and those blue
eyes so haunted me that I could not sit
down again to enjoy that fairy glen.
. Thinking I would ask my boat-boys about
it—for I didn’t know of any white man in
that group of islands —I followed the track
and suddenly emerged from the jungle on
to the headland. The beauty of the scene
fairly took away my breath, and as I drank
in the loveliness of it all I forgot the tat-
tooed face.
I stood on a high bluff of grey-black rocks,
to which came charging an endless proces-
sion of great green rollers. On, on they
came, in never-ending fury, smashing them-
selves to death at its base in a smother of
snowy foam, the drench and spume tossing
m feathery spindrift almost to my feet.
Round the headland I could see the quiet
lagoon, where my cutter lay at anchor on
a polished sheet of lapis lazuli flecked with
jade in the shallows. A fringe of cocoanut
and betel palms on a golden beach edged the
gleaming water; and out on the reef be-
yond tumbled and thundered a line of foam-
ing surf.
Though but a copra-trader, I have a streak
of poetry in me, and I wished I were a
painter or a poet so that I could share that
picture with the folks penned up in city
shops and warehouses ; for a man could look
upon it for a thousand years and then hunger
for more.
After a while the deep blue of the lagoon
set me thinking of those blue eves and that
weirdly-tattooed face, and I began to have
the uneasy feeling of being watched. Noon
had passed ; so, very reluctantly, I turned
mto the track and started back to the beach,
let even as I reached the glade I felt I
could not tear myself away without one more
look at that glorious view. Turning back I
came out on to the headland once more.
On the high rocks now stood an old man
gazing fixedly out to sea!
At the sound of my footsteps he turned
his head. The deep-blue eyes stared into
mine again, yet with the vacant stare of a
man who sees nothing.
He gave no answer to my greeting, but
turned his head away as if he had not heard
me. I spoke again, but he gazed steadily
seaward as though watching for a ship to
heave in sight.
He was a white man all right—no native
ever grew that long white wavy hair or
that luxuriant white beard. He wore a
singlet and rami like a native workboy,
except that they were clean and tidy; and
I could see red and blue tattoo sprawling
m grotesque design over arms and legs to
the very tips of the fingers and toes. Tat-
tooing gone mad! A riot of decoration in
jumbled profusion!
He must have been a fine man in his
heyday, but now his shoulders were bent
with age, and his knees—a twining snake
rearing a spitting head on each kneecap—
were knobbly and crooked.
I loitered round for a while, but as he
took no further notice of me I left him there,
his empty blue eyes still looking vacantly
out to sea, the wind blowing, his white hair
and beard in streamers behind him, one
tattooed hand clasping a knotty staff: an
old man with dead eyes, watching the hori-
zonfor a phantom ship of dreams!
Once more I took the track to the village,
marvelling at the folly of a white man hav-
ing his skin defaced like a native, though
I had never seen a native tattooed like that
not even a Maori.
The village was deserted on that hot after-
noon. Only old Lena, the mother of my
A umber One boatboy, sat on her verandah
weaving a basket. Lena was a gaunt old
name, a good bit above the average of native
women. She had had a mission education,
and I fancied from her light skin that she
had white blood in her, but it doesn’t do
to inquire too closely into pedigrees In these
islands. Anyway, she never wore grass petti-
coats, and bought a couple of print overalls
every time I touched the island, about twice
a year.
“Hi, Lena!” I called. “Who’s the white
man up on the bluff?’’
She looked blankly at me and then shook
her head.
“No white man here, master.”
“I saw a white man,” I insisted. “Who
is he? If he is mad. I must tell the Gov-
ernment so that they can fetch him away.”
A look of alarm spread over her wrinkled
face. Scrambling to her feet, she came to
the edge of the verandah.
“No, no, master! Don’t do that!” she
begged. “Hari is mad, but lie does no harm,
and if he were taken away he would die.
Come up and sit with me and drink a cocoa-
nut whilst I tell yon of him. Rut you must
say no word to the Government, unless you
wish to bring trouble to this village.”
1 accepted her invitation, and, sitting on
a kerosene-case, drank cocoanut milk whilst
Lena told me of the tattooed man with the
blue eyes, weaving her basket the while, and
pausing now and again to point her story
with a gesture.
“Long years ago, Master, a trader named
Gregorio the Greek came and settled here.
As time went by he married a village girl,
Tafua, and by her had twin daughters.
“By Panavia custom, one babe should be
destroyed, for ill-luck follows if both are
allowed to live; but when the old midwife
would have buried one child alive, Gregorio
stayed her hand, so the two children grew
to maidenhood. As they grew, Gregorio’s
wealth grew also, for the bau shell in the
lagoon was rich in color, and Panavia men
were skilled in the making of supi-sapi. Eh,
Master, with shell, pearls and copra, Gre-
gorio became wealthy indeed, and, in count-
ing his wealth, did not forget to include his
twin daughters.
“Though of one birth, no two girls could
have been less alike. Marie was as the bird
of paradise in beauty; Helene, a little wood-
pigeon ; but Gregorio took pride in them
both, sending them away to the mission
school to be made into fine ladies.
“Then, as it ever will —gifts one moment,
losings the next —Fortune deserted Gregorio.
First the shell gave out; then one night a
hurricane swept the islands. In that night
Gregorio lost both his fortune and his life,
for the lugger went down with all on board:
the store was wrecked, our palms laid low.
It was an evil night for Panavia, and after
it the people hungered for many a day, and
many died. But Tafua and her daughters
lived: the sun shone again and once more
the palms bore. Now and again a trader
came in and bought kernels at Tafua’s little
store, but none stayed until Ilari came. Eh!
Eh!_ Well I remember the day he came sail-
ing into the lagoon in his smart cutter.
“He was a man, Master! Tall and
straight as a well-grown palm; hair golden
as tide-washed sands, and his white skin,
sunkissed to redness, was as a pink pearl
amongst our dark faces. His eyes! You
have seen them, Master? Now they are
empty and dim, but when they shone with
the light of youth they were blue as the
morning seas with the sun dancing on them.
“When he landed he went straight to the
copra store, and there Helene saw him, and .
her heart leapt in her breast. Its quick
beating kindled the fire of desire, for never
before had she seen such a man, and she
craved him as a hungry babe craves for
its mother’s milk. As she watched him bar-
gaining with her mother, she was glad for
the first time that her sister, Marie, was away
across the island.
“There was to be a dance that night, and
Helene spent the day searching the bush
for flowers. How she longed for the finery
that had vanished in the hurricane! But
she wove sweet garlands of frangipanni and
cassia, and caught fireflies and wore them
meshed in the darkness of her hair; so that
the wood-pigeon went to the dance decked
as the bird of paradise.
“Hari sat on Tafua’s verandah as you sit
now, Master, and drank cocoanut milk and
sipora, smoking and talking with Tafua,
with never a look at the little wood-pigeon
who danced below, watching and yearning
for a glance.
“At last Helene grew bold, for the roots
of desire twisted deep within her, and she
tossed her garland to him, island fashion.
But he only laughed and shook his head.
All the other girls and youths were watch-
ing now. Never before had Helene shown
desire for a man, though some had offered
to share a betel-nut with her and been scorn-
fully repulsed.
“She grew desperate, and taking a golden
nut she husked it, bit it in halves, and tossed
one half into Hari’s lap.
“The red blood rose and dyed his neck
snd cheeks, for he well understood her invi-
tation; but he laughed again and shook his
head, full in the sight of all, saying to Tafua,
not knowing Helene was her daughter, ‘Tell
her there’s nothing doing,’ and strode away
t? I V.\ c «t ter - , A nd Tomo, who understood
English, heard him mutter, ‘Damn these half-
caste sluts!’
• Tomo had had his half betel-nut thrown
into his face by Helene only that evening
so it was not long before all the dancers
were laughing and jeering and ‘half-caste
slut was tossed from one to another like
a ball at play.
Her in*east afire with shame and rage
Helene ran out of the village and went over
the mountain that night to her sister, and
hul in her arms, sobbing out her shame on
Marie s breast
, f?irls camtf back next day, and
whde Helene stayed hidden in the house,’
„ her “? tl!e £ 8 P ,ace in the store.
Did I tell you that Marie was as a bird of
paradise for beauty? Eh, Master! How
can tongue tell of her beauty? The verv
curves of her body made other girls hide
™‘^ lve U ,in ? er a many Petticoats. Skin
smooth without a flaw, soft as the down of
a sea-birds breast, and of the color of a
(Continued on next page.)


"Gvery picture
Veils a St or J/
m ‘ ‘
*■-
fa
171 1
bti
■ .vl «
m
V
KEEP DOAN’S IN THE HOUSE!
PROMPT TREATMENT PREVENTS KIDNEY COMPLAINT
gACKACHE, urinary disorders, puffiness about the
eyes, swollen ankles, rheumatic twinges and dizzi-
ness are early signs of kidney trouble. Never neglect
such warnings! Rheumatism, stone, dropsy or incurable
stages of kidney disease may result. Keep a bottle of
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills always in the house.
Doan s Pills are not only curative in their effect—they are also a preventive kidney medicine. Even
when well you should take an occasional course of Doan’s to fortify the kidneys.
TWO COMPLETE CURES.
Mrs. S. Schrowder, 29 Thomas Street, Balmain, Sydney,
says: “I can recommend Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills as a
perfect cure for all kidney ailments. This remedy cured me
some time ago of severe pains in my back and side, also
headaches and giddiness. I was really far from well, but Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills made a different woman of me, six
bottles driving the pain out of my back, banishing the head-
aches, and restoring me to good health. Considering how ill
I was it is wonderful that Doan’s Pills cured me so quickly.”
Some years later Mrs. Schrowder says “I have the greatest
faith in Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. They cured me of
kidney trouble some years ago, and I am still well. I always
keep this medicine in the house now, and take a few doses
from time to time just as a preventive against any return of
my old complaint.”
TESTIMONY
FROM
SYDNEY.
Mi*. Lewis Williams, (it)2 Botany Road, Botany, Sydney,
says : “I was a great sufferer with my back, and the pain was
at times so bad that I had to leave my work and go home.
I was bent almost double, and could not stand up straight
without increased suffering. I used various preparations, but
only got slight relief. Reading of cures effected by Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, I decided to try them. One bottle eased
the pain, and the second completed my cure. This did not
happen yesterday, but about two years ago, and I have had no
sign of backache all that time, so it is not mere temporary
relief, but a perfect cure. I am always advising my friends
to use Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and am glad to have
an opportunity to publicly recommend them.”
Sixteen years later Mrs. Williams says: “My husband is
.still well, and has been free of backache since Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills cured him IS years ago.”
r
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Said by all Chemists and
Stores.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors, 15 Hamilton
Street, Sydney.
him, virtue even in his betrayal of their
secret. In his modesty, she told herself,
he had never guessed that she would prize
his gift so; he would naturally think she
would show it to her sister, leave it perhaps
lying about, the house. In his fastidious-
ness he would conceive it to be dishonorable
to give her presents secretly, without her
father’s knowledge.
For part of the year the Rosamund went
south, sometimes almost to the Antarctic
circle, where the crew were exposed to the
dangers not only of hunting their quarry
and of storms, but of floating ice as well,
They suffered from the cold and from
continual threat of starvation. Almost
as bad as this was the loneliness, as day
after day went by with no sign of land, no
sail, sometimes not even a bird.
The southern voyages were the longest,
the most dangerous and the most profitable,
But sometimes the Rosamund sailed north-
east and the hard-bitten men who had stood
the rigors of the Antarctic voyages were
softened and loosened in the tropical winter
with its vivid unchanging sun and brilliant
sky, its breezes like warm honey, the
abundant life of sea and air. The men
who returned from these voyages were very
different from those who had come back
from the south a few months before. They
brought a sort of satiety and contempt with
them. The home port seemed dingy and
insipid. Its sunlight cold and thin.
At. night now Fanny no longer thought
of the inlands and their perils and rewards;
it was always the sea. She drove her
imagination out after the Rosamund, think-
hig ot Hildebrand’s dangers with a sort of
greed. She had never seen a whale, but
ih loomed in her mind as a monstrous and
fabulous animal. “That Leviathan” she
called it, savoring the biblical flavor of the
word. She knew that when a whale had
been captured the carcase was moored to
the side of the ship and as quickly as pos-
‘able cut up. She had a picture of a pro-
digious shapeless mass dripping blood into
a reddened, churning sea, of black figures
against the glare of lanterns, of a wild
chanty going up to the stars; but she never
permitted her imagination to come close
to see what they actually (lid. This deed
°f blood was part of Captain Hildebrand’s
black magic.
As the weeks went by Fanny’s passion
had little to sustain it, nothing but a piece
of coral and the imponderable evidence of
glances and chance contacts. They were
tiny craft upon a five months’ silence. As
far as the store was concerned Captain
Hildebrand seemed entirely effaced from
the world. Even when Captain Bennett
°f the Sure Hope returned after four
months’ hunting with a storm-battered ship,
a hungry crew and no oil, no one seemed
really anxious about the Rosamund,
''Nobody cares but me,” Fanny told her-
self with a burning heart, and strained her
ears for voices in the southerly gale that
rattled her shutters,
(Second Large Instalment Next Week.)
mellow manoon; lips scarlet as the ripe bush-
plum ; teeth pearly as the lining of a lapi
shell, for no betel-nut soiled that dainty
mouth.”
Lena paused, and curling back lime-stained
lips, showing a couple of blackened fangs,
squirted a jet of blood-red saliva through
the verandah rail. With skinny fingers she
combed through her locks of grizzled hair,
sighed and went on with her tale.
“Her hair, long and wavy, rippled over
smooth golden shoulders like the shimmering
midnight waters of the lagoon, and long,
curling lashes veiled eyes that melted a
man’s heart and filled him with desire. Yet
I have seen those same eyes flash fire like
Dilava’s lightning to blast a forward one,
leaving him withered with their scorn.
“Aye, Marie was indeed beautiful! Anti
all the village youths were eager for her
favor; but though she gave to none, she ever
lured them on. Indeed, hers was an evil
beauty. Master, a beauty that drives men
to madness; beauty like the fruit wa-ia,
that makes a man’s mouth water to look
upon, tempting him to taste its loveliness,
promising a luscious feast, yet when he
plucks it and sets his teeth in its soft flesh,
it is as bitter as pig’s gall, with a keenness
that sets his mouth a-pueker, so that he can-
not savor other food for many days. Yea,
wa-ia is bitter to the core; bitterness hidden
under a skin of the glowing color of sunset
skies. So was the beauty of Marie; as many
a man of Panavia had learnt to his cost.
“Hari first saw her in the dark store where
she glowed like a golden pearl, and forgetting
that she too was a half-caste, he, who had
kept aloof from all the maidens of the island,
laid his heart for her little golden feet to
trample on.
“That evening he sat once more on Tafua’s
verandah. Helene, lying hidden within, her
ear to the wall, ground her teeth and writhed
with hate and rage as she heard him whisper
passionate words of love.
“ ‘Thou art too fair for my liking,’ Marie
replied to his pleadings. ‘Tliy skin is like
the white belly of a fish. Sec!’ and she
laid the soft golden petal of her hand for a
fleeting moment against his bare, white
throat, pretending to shiver at the touch,
darting away as his arm curved to encircle
her.
“So for days that love-play went on;
Marie alluring, then retreating, ever hinting
that only his fairness kept her from yielding
to his pleading; Ilari pursuing, forgetting
trade and all else in his hot eagerness.
“Then Marie came to Helene saying, ‘Go
thou into the bush, my sister, and<bring me
the stalks of i-i. To-morrow Hari will lie
under the shark’s tooth of old Baroa, who
will darken that fair skin of his with her
dots and dashes. So, lest the pain sap his
will, we will give him the pineapple brandy
our mother makes, with a little i-i in it, to
bring forgetfulness.
“Next day, Baroa and her daughters—
women of many generations of tattooers —
brought shark’s tooth, fish-bone and sago
thorn, mallets and pigments. Drunk with
the strong pineapple brandy and stupid with
i-i, Hari lay in Tafua’s house, a strong man
meshed in the net of love, whilst Baroa traced
designs on his arms and legs. All that day
the tattooers worked, urged on by Marie
who, when Hari groaned with Ihe pain, gave
him still more brandy, until he lay helpless
as a trussed pig before the spear of the
killer.
“Far into the night, by fire and lamp-
light, Baroa and her daughters pricked and
tapped, until their numbed hands could work
no more, and Hari’s white arms and legs
were darkly patterned with birds, beasts and
fishes such as eye never saw.
“All that night Hari tossed in pain, for
the drowse of the i-i wore off. Fever came
upon him; his senses left him, and he mut-
tered and raved.
“At dawn Tafua looked at him and said,
‘This is an evil thing ye do, my daughters.
It will bring much shame on Panavia.’ But
Marie laughed, a little tinkling rill of laugh-
ter that made Hari open his fever-glazed
eyes for a second, and his sore, tattooed
hands groped for her, even though his spirit
wandered.
“ ‘Dost think, little brown mother, that he
will bear the scorn of white men after this?
Fear not! He will be ashamed to show the
marks my love hath set upon him, so he will
stay here. Helene will get her husband,
and thou the son for whom thou hast craved,’
and Marie laughed again—a laugh like a
barbed spear.
“But Helene tossed her head, her face
ablaze with shame, and spat upon Hari as
he lay on the mat at her feet, for the mem-
ory of his scorn was burnt deep in her heart
as the tattoo marks were pricked deep in
his white skin.
“Baroa would have refused to tattoo any-
more since Hari was senseless with the
fever, and all red and swollen with the sore-
ness of the pricks; hut Marie ever had her
own will, even with the women, so again
they set to work.
“ ‘Place my mark on him that all may see
lie is my man,’ said Marie, and with a finger
dipped in the charcoal she marked the tribal
sign of Panavia on the whiteness of his fore-
head, and Baroa did her bidding.
“Chest and back, hip and thigh, buttock
and loin they scrolled, and when he raved
the two sisters sang songs of love to drown
his groans and mutterings lest the village
people should hear. Where a patch of white
skin still showed, ‘Here is a little place that
shames the rest,’ Marie would say. ‘A spider-
lily would grow well there, for, like a spider,
I have tangled him in my web.’ Again,
‘I)o not waste this patch; the markings of
a sunbird’s breast would surely grace that
swelling muscle)’ and so till no trace of
white remained and all his skin was swollen
and inflamed angrily. The blood in his veins
ran fever-hot, and Baroa was afraid that he
would die.
“When the tattooers had gathered up their
gear, taken their pay, and were gone, Marie
looked down at Hari and spurned him with
her foot, saying, ‘Half-caste sluts! Thou
hast had thy revenge, Helene. Take him if
thou wilt,’ and went off singing.
“When dawn came the cutter was gone,
and Marie with it, for she had enslaved
Hari’s coxswain, who was half-caste, too;
and the two disappeared for ever from Pan-
avia, and none have heard of them since.
“With Marie’s going Helene's heart soft-
ened. and seeing Harrs helplessness and
that he was in danger of death, and remem-
bering his blue eyes, she brought herbs from
the bush, and nursed and tended his poisoned
skin, covering it with soothing balms and
oil, so little by little dragging him back from
the very maw of death. But, Master, his
spirit fled with Marie, for though his skin
became healed his mind remained in dark-
ness, and has ever so remained. From that
time he has dwelt in Tafua’s house, cared
for and tended, a son indeed, but as the
smallest child.
“He spends his days on the bluff, watch-
ing for Marie and his cutter to return, and
all the island knows of Pan avia’s shame.
When white men come we send him across
the mountain; but he frets, and to-day he
must have stolen back.
“Soon I will fetch him home to this house
—this house, Master—for 1 was that woman
scorned; I, Helene, the daughter of Gre-
gorio the Greek, was that ‘half-caste slut’
who, with my sister Marie, worked that re-
venge on Hari. But I have been punished,
Master; for across the long years I ever
remember him so white and gold and blue,
and, though I married Tomo that Hari might
have a home when my mother, Tafua,
died, I have ever loved the man who scorned
me”—and a tear rolled down her withered
cheek and .splashed on to the finished basket.
I rose to my feet, heartsick at this wanton
spoiling of a man's life for a few careless
words. Truly Hell hath no fury like a
woman scorned!
"I must take him away and place him
with his own kind. It is not right that a
white man' should live here,” I said.
Lena shook her grey head. “What would
you?” she asked. “He has the sunshine and
the flowers; food when his belly craves and
a fire to warm his bones when the mists are
chill; a mat when his eyes close in sleep.
Here he has peace, for no troubles vex his
clouded mind; and, when the fire of his life
flickers and goes out, and he sleeps the long
sleep, what better than to lie on yonder point
where he has waited for his love through
the long yeai’s; to lie where he can still
listen to the whispers of the jungle, to the
thunder of the seas? Nay, Master, let him
abide here in peace,” and her imploring
eyes held mine.
I nodded assent —I could not speak—and
as I sailed away past the headland next
day I saw him there, high on the rocks, his
white hair tossing in the wind, like old
Father Time waiting for the end of the
world.


ŕ
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear-
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
sents— HOLMES X CUIiKCH, Brisbane.
10? Featberston Street, Wellington.
WALES
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House/' 485 Bourlce Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents; Messrs. ELDER, SMITH As CO., LTD., Adelaide. S.A.
THE DAILY MAIL
BRISBANE
Is logically the first big daily to select in Queensland for any advertising
campaign. It gets results!
It is always bright and is progressive to a degree.
And its net circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to
be greater than that of any other daily in Queensland. Its companion
journal is
THE SUNDAY MAIL
Queensland’s big weekly newspaper and magazine. These two journals
give a “cover” in Queensland that is second to none. For rates and
other particulars, please apply to
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-294 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE,
Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
r
Che Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-state agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price IJ d.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
WILSON, 235 Pitt Street, Sydney. '
Telephone, MA3161.
London Office r 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
“BRISBANE COURIER”
FIRST
in Queensland in
Circulation - Advertising - and Influence
The Brisbane Courier” carries considerably more advertising
than any other daily or evening newspaper in Quifcensland —
and is greatly increasing its lead every month!
Such is the confidence National, Interstate and Local Advertisers
have in Queensland s biggest and most pr ogressive daily ne\Vspaper.
Specimen copies and rate cards from ROBL D. FISHER, 74 Pitt street, Sydney
Published by the Brisbane Newspaper Coy., “Qourier” Building, Queen St., Brisbane
ŕ
What's the matter with you ?
i . •
You know there's something wrong
with you ? What is it ? Your liver
and stomach upset ? Then you're
More often than not the faulty
functioning of the digestive
organs, brought on by Constipa-
tion, is the cause of Biliousness.
<:)
Failure of the bowels to act
properly, results in poison acc-
umulating in the system which
upsets the stomach, giving rise to
biliousness, headaches, loss of
energy and appetite.
These are signals. Take action!
Take Beecham’s Pills.! They
assist nature and keep the system
regular and healthy.
VJ
\
Jkj
■
u. l_
a
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
TUESDAY—Price 3d
<r
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
s?
ft;
£
$
V
‘‘The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania.
It is the oldest .daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
same day of publication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from;
R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Patterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. V. W. Margetts,
122 Flinders Street,
Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
701 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ŗ
r


•v*!s
Ji &
w
%
w. 1%
*>
u
m
. t r*
'ri4;, h -. •
:o
*
t, ® m
ih,
A
L/
<«»
X
w
o
0
/
r
Born 1820-
Still going Strong
uj ac
gn yj
H
H
<#)
H
In the matter of whisky it’s the
wise man who knows his own
mind. And the great majority say
"Johnnie Walker, please” without
doubt or hesitation.
The foolish man tries first one whisky,
then another, betraying his mental
twist and his pathetic indecision.
But once acquire the Johnnie Walker
habit, and you won’t need to twist
... no corkscrew is needed. The
stopper’s a "corker” 1
Lift the tag —remove the capsule—and
a turn of the finger and thumb will
give you the one whisky which never
•varies in quality fn m one generation
to another.
1
**3
«',■* VV* W
atr-
ssss*
n>
JOHNXHE WAfaKER
WHISKY
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, LONDON
and KILMARNOCK
