

/'/ ).
f
M
i/j/
mm
iNOlVdj
I
k
>:■>-&
m
M ; .
&
A&
■a»i
•V
SHB
:• i.
c\.o~
Sgs
3®
S#
%
iL
%
S\'>\''s®S
v
M&
\
m^
&
'i'y’jtv-
-5 irf
j.m
■
■m
m
m
■■:■ ■■'.
r
HUTTONS
ESSAESS
=- Stymied' uv the,
frijiiiq panS of
the nation *=*
T'WO Blue Stripes branded on the rind
always assure you that the Ham or Bacon
IS “Pineapple” . . . Australia’s best.
Always look for these stripes when you buy
... they are plainly visible, even on rashers.
The color.. .which is merely impressed on the
rind...is purely vegetable and quite harmless.
I. c. HUTTON PTy. LTD.
(DIVISION OF UNITED PROVISIONS LTD I
kt&L&QUtiXH ft BRISBANE it SYDNEY it ADEtAIDfi i FRJSMANTLE
LAUNCESTON NEW ZEALAND
LOOK FOR THE
TWO BLUE STRIPES
The Bulletin
xiicrti&MxmAji Ejuxatf .=■ jSmyidt ow Hkn shdbrfAM4 'flov&t
Vol. 50.—N0. 2584.
Wednesday, August 21, 1929.
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, KS.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


"THE 1929 LIBRARY CATALOGUE is
1 now ready, and will be forwarded post
free, with full terms and particulars, on
application to
BYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
He could juggle a feather, a cannon ball, too,
He could lift half a ton, break horseshoes in two,
He could wrestle an ox or break a steel chain,
For he’d done it quite often, again and again.
He could lift a had cold when he had it. I’m sure,
For he knew the right way —Woods’ Great Peppermint
Cure.
—Advt.
df
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell. Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write " for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. j
My Name
Mv Address
s.b
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
my
Vy
vS
d
STAMMERING AND STUTTERING
CAN BE CURED IN YOUR OWN HOME
Semi TO-DAY for particulars of “Perfect Speech” and copies of letters from
those who have been cured. Philip O’Bryen Hoare, M.8.1.M.5e. (London) (The
Stammerers' Friend), Specialist in Public Speaking and the Cure of Stannnerin*
. . and Stuttering.
ADDRESS:
56 BRISBANE ARCADE, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
P.O. Box 1142 P.
Mo More Backache
No More Rheumatism , Qout or Lumbago!
The cau»? of backache, rheumatic pains, gout and
lumbago is uric acid. Drive the uric poisons from
(he system and you are fit and well again! To
do (his the sure, safe, medically-recommended way
is to take Harrison’s Pills, the signed remedy of a
London doctor. No matter how many things have
failed you, a few doses of Harrison’s Pills will make
a marked improvement, clearly showing their won-
derful power of restoring youth to pain-racked men
and women. One user says: “They’re perfect! A
neighbor of nine was so bad with his back he could
#iot stoop. I gave him six Harrison's, and before two
days he was right and at work.”
Remember: There’s nqthing. to equal this remedy
for rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica-, gout, uric ache-,
and pains, or kidney, bladder and genito-urinarv
disovders. If YOU want to feel 10 to 20 years
younger quickly, just get a. package of Harrison's
Pills from your chetnist or storekeeper. Three sizes.
2/-, 3/- and a/-. Money back if not satisfied with
the very first bottle !
fd
Remove the Causey
and Make You Well,
Amalgamated Laboratories, liembla Building, Sydney : and "all .High-class Chemists
A Satisfied Customer!
68 Charles Street,
_ . ~ Launceston.
Examiner Office, Launceston. June nth, 1929.
Dear Sir, —It may interest you to know that within three days I
have received replies to my advertisement from Penguin, Huonville,
Underwood, Sulphur Creek, Moorleah, Latrobe, Sheffield Hobart,
Winnaleah. I MUST CONGRATULATE YOU ON THE VALUE
YOU GIVE ME FOR OUR ADVERTISEMENTS.
Yours faithfully,
R. C. B. MOORE & CO.
Full information, Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from W. R.
ROLPH & SONS PTY, LTD., 73-75 Paterson Street, Launceston;
V. W. MARGETTS, 122 Flinders Street. Melbourne;
W. G. DOUGAN Herald Building, 66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Winner Last Year
J. R. Jeffrey, Kogarah, N.S.W.
This may be your
Lucky Year!
DON’T DELAY
Buy your
TICKET
To-day
♦
\
ih
mm
i
OmOthen
Drawn 16th NOV., 1929
Tickets I/- obtainable
Local Agent
direct from
A. W. YAGER, MIC
Secretary,
Trades Hart,
Sydney
from
or
ď
are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Germicide
and Antiseptic known, being destructive to all forms
of bacterial life. They keep the mouth in a sweet,
healthy condition.
Suited for Old and Young.
For the cure of Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bron-
chitis, Influenza.
Unlike cough medicines, HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL
JUJUBES do not interfere with the digestion; on the
contrary, they have a beneficial effect, as their Anti-
septic Properties prevent abnormal fermentation of
the food,, and thus tnev prove,. helpful to sufferers
from Indigestion and Dyspepsia if taken after food.
Sold Everywhere in Tins, Price 1/6.
a
W >
The Laiynx or
Organ of Voice.
The Trachea of
Windpipe.
0. The Bronchial
Tubes of Dissected
Lung/
D. The Lobe oi ons
«t the Lungs.
The Red Page
A "Major Phenomenon"
What do Bulletin readers think of the
result of-the First Novel Competition?
As far as The Bulletin itself is con-
cerned, there is, and always has been,
entire satisfaction. Indeed, though it was
telt that Australians could deliver the goods
h encouraged—that belief was the genesis
of these Novel Competitions—the result
was something undreamt of.
Five hundred and forty entries, and a rich,
harvest of excellent fiction-—it much more
than proved that The Bulletin’s confidence
in Australians was justified!
But what have Australians themselves
felt about, it? Most have expressed warm
appreciation; many have adversely criti-
cised one or other or all of the published
entries. Even “The Quartermaster” has not
escaped; one comment is contained in the
letter of a contributor who writes: “I
read it to the bitter end. The only part
my limited intelligence could enjoy was the
illustrations.”
Most who write like that disclaim
critical ability, so it is interesting to find
critic of first-rate ability feels about
it. From it the non-critical reader may be
helped to find, not what he does like, but
what fie should like
Arnold Bennett,
whose full-dress
picture reproduced
here is from a
batch of excellent
New Statesman
prints of Low
drawings, forward-
ed f6r review by
the Royer oft
Library, Sydney, is
very widely
acknowledged as
one of the great-
est authorities on
contemporary fic-
tion. His “Books
and Persons”
column—the title
also belongs to one
of his most engag-
ing volumes of
c r i t i c i s m—is a
leading feature oi the London Evening
Standard. In that column, as one who pro-
fessedly scorns the academy critic who
regards literature as a sort of dead science,
Mr. Bennett deals sympathetically with
current new fiction. He praises quite openly
all work that appears to deserve praise;
he was one of the earliest admirers of “Jew
Suss”; and generally his always discerning
praise has assisted many a deserving book
to quick public recognition. It is, however,
very seldom indeed that he grants a novel
anything even approaching the measure of
praise that he gave to the winner of The
Bulletin’s First Novel Competition in the
Standard for July 4.
The heading announcing that Mr. Ben-
nett had found a “major phenomenon” of
modern fiction from Australia. After notic-
ing two other important books, he wrote:—
“Another port; another clime; Syd-
ney, Australia. The story of James
Hyde, who leaves the Navy in order
to take up ship-chandling in Sydney
Harbor, begins in the eighteen-
thirties and ends in the ’eighties.
It begins in modesty and ends in.
splendor. James Hyde built the great
business house of Hyde and Sons.
The Novel is called ‘A House Is
Built’ (Harrap, 7s. 6d.). It is signed
‘M. Barnard Eldershaw,’ and is
really the work of two women gradu-
ates of Sydney University, the Misses
Eldershaw and Barnard. There are
two curious and satisfactory things
about this book. First, that it gives
no external sign of collaboration;
it is an entity and a unity. Second,
that it won the First Prize in the
Sydney Bulletin’s competition for
the best novel by... an Australian
author; For not often does a truly
fine piece of work take first prize
in such a competition. Fine pieces
of work are only too apt to be passed
over in favor of something smoother,
more fashionable, more sentimental,
without any sharp edges. And 'A
House Is Built’ is beyond question a
very notable novel. It has deeply
impressed me.
“I have already dealt with two
novels that are by no means to be
disdained. 'A House Is Built’ is
incomparably superior to either of
them. Although certain chapters are
no doubt better than others, I find it
hard to discover faults in this ex-
traordinary book. Its quality is epical.
Time marches through it in the grand
manner. And the emotional power is
maintained right to the end—which
is rare in any book by any author.
I know that after finishing, and
being laid under the spell of, a good
book, one is in danger of exaggerat-
ing its merits—indeed, of thinking
that it is the only good book ever
written. Nevertheless, I must have
the courage of my opinion, and my
opinion is that ‘A House Is Built’ is
a major phenomenon of modern fic-
tion. Not one scene, hot three scenes,
but many .scenes in it are magnificent.
If more is not heard of the Misses
Eldershaw and Barnard I shall be
surprised. Either of them alone may
be a tyro; but the two together
make a finished and resistless creative
artist.”
That is remarkably high' praise to be
given by a great critic to any book. It is
one of the many gratifying results of the
first competition.
For the Second Competition the prize-
money is: First, £400; second, £250; third.
£100. The Competition closes at The
Bulletin Head Office, 214 George-street
North, Sydney, on December 31, 1929.
Kendall's Name and Age
The brief aceouni of Henry Kendall,
given in "‘Answers to Correspondents,” JuJ
111 [from tlie “Australian Encyclopaedia”],
not quite accurate in some 1 particular,
Kendall was born 1839, not 1841; he diec
aged 43, not 41. The two years make
literary difference, because Kendall’s firs
book, “Poems and Songs” (1862), appeal
a much more precocious effort in a youn
man of 21 than in a young man of 21
When Kendall, sending poems to th
Coknhilij Magazine in 1862, wrote to th
editor, “I am now in the nineteenth yea
of my age,” he was really in h'is 23rd year
“Kirmington, near Milton,” given as Ken
dall’s birthplace, had no existence in 183
as a definite settlement. It was the nam
of a subsequent land-grant, borrowed from
the Lincolnshire (Eng.) parish where Ken
dall’s paternal grandfather had taugh
school. It is doubtful whether Kendall wa
born on the existing “Kirmington estate
or somewhere on the two square miles o:
the first Kendall land-grant, the “Kenda
Dale estate.” (“Kendal” with one l; bor
rowed from the Westmoreland town the
family originally came from.)
Kendall was born in a bush hut or humpy
a mile or two from the existing to\Vn o
Milton; but Milton did not exist till raanj
years later. As late as 1865 the settle,
rnent had' only 17 houses. Milton is foil
miles n.-w. of Ulladulla, the seaport whicl
maintained communication with Svdnev in
the early part of last century. Kendall’
mother was named Matilda, not, Melinda
which (with the occasional -addition o
Olivia Leonora) was a personal variation
That is made clear by the certificate given
to her father in Sydney, Mav 11, 1827
when Matilda was baptised. “Child’s name
Matilda McNally. Father’s name, Patrick
McNally. Date of birth, ‘a fortnight before
Easter 12 years,’ ” (Easter Day, 1815, was
March 26.) “A fortnight before” was March
12, 1815—approximate date of MatildaV
birth.
Marrying Basil Kendall on August 1
1835, Matilda was 20 years and about 44
months old. The Rev. John McGayvie
minister of the second Scots’ church in
Sydney, wedded Basil Kendall, bachelor
clerk, to Melinda Olivia Leonora MacAllan
spinster. The-, marriage was “by banns,’
which must be proclaimed beforehand
belying the yarn that Basil met his bride one
day and married her the next, “I do hereby
declare that I am a Presbyterian,” wrote
Basil Kendall. Matilda, baptised a Roman
Catholic, does not here declare any religious
belief.
A register of “Presbyterian baptisms
solemnised in parish unnamed in the County
of St, Vincent, NiS.W.”—preserved by
N. S. Wales Registrar-General—marks the
appearance of Basil Edward and Thomas
Henry, the poetical Kendall twins, on April
18. 1839; baptised July 26, 1840. Basil
Edward, registered first and named after
Ins father, was apparently the elder. Thomas
Henry was named after his paternal grand-
father. (1 here had been an earlier child
or children of the Kendall-McNally mar-
riage; dead in infancy.) Father’s name, Basil
Kendall. Mother’s name, Millinda Mc-
Allan. Abode, Mandnal (apparently a
vanished settlement-name). Quality or'pro-
l'ession, settler. George MacFie, minister.
On March 7, 1868, Thomas Henry Kendall
comes to St. John’s, Bishopthorpe, Sydney,
to be married to Charlotte Rutter, spinster,
gentlewoman, residing Glebe, Sydney’
according to the rites of the Church of
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


You can rely on “Truth in Advertising”
in all Anthony Horderns’ advertisements.
Anthony Horderns'
the finest firm in N.S.W. for Reliable
Agricultural
Necessities
Make use of the tremendous
economies made possible by
the vast organisation and
goodwill in the markets of the
world of Anthony Horderns’.
A complete, illustrated catalogue will
be sent Post Free on application. It
will enable you to buy your necessities
at our “Famous Low Prices.”
Agricultural Dept.—Fourth Floor.
(Deposit-Purchase System).
Where it is inconvenient to
pay cash, leave a deposit on
the goods, which will be for-
warded on payment of the
balance-
dfd
The “Rapid” Hand Crank Forge.—
I Sin. pan, machine-cut gears.
Weight, 801 b. A handy, portable
forge-—can be assembled in two
minutes. Duplicate parts always
obtainable. Price £8
Centrifugal Pumps, Single Stage, Standard
belt-driven. Made from the finest mate-
rials —smooth-running and durable.
Sizes 1i x I I\x 1 l 2x I \ 2\ x 2 3x 2\ 3x 3 in.
Type A £6/10/- £7/10/- £B/2/6 £9/12/6 £ll/5/- £l3/5/-
Type B £lO/15/- £l2/5/- £l4/5/-£l6/10/-£lB/10/-
J
The “Buffalo” Rivet Forge. —Made
with one-piece steel fire pan, with
No. 300 blower. Gear ratio, 46 to 1.
Measurement of box, 32 x 2 1 x 13.
Gross weight, 1851 b.
Price
£lO/5/-
ďf
Double-acting Force
and Lift Pump.—- Will
lift 2000 gals, per hour.
Made to take 2in. iron
pipe or 2in. hose.
Forces water about 50ft.
Price ...... £4/15/-
Bulldozer Pump, No. 612. —Fitted with
22in. x 3in. brass-lined cylinder, 12in. x
2in. fast and loose pulleys. Capacity, 500
gals, per hour. Price £2O
No. 613.—Larger Model. Capacity, 1000
gals, per hour. Price £3l
Myers Cog Gear Force
Pump. -—Used to force
water into overhead
tanks, etc. Fitted with
3in. x 4fin. brass-lined
cylinder. Can be oper-
ated against 751 b.
pressure if desired.
Takes 1 £in. pipe.
Price ...... £4/18/6
rv K
£
Blacksmiths’ Leg Vyces,
—Strong and well made.
jaw, up to 451 b.
Price, each .... 42 '6
4in. jaw, average 561 b.
jaw, average 601 b.
sin, jaw, average 761 b.
6in. jaw, average 1 101 b.
Price, per lb 9d»
d
The Myers Self - Oiling
Bulldozer Power Pump*
Back Geared 5 to L Fully Enclose®
For General Service.
Sectional View snowing nil parts, including Oiling
System. Large Valrefcand Digest .Water-Way.
614—Bulldozer Pump-— —Fitted with 4in. x sin.
brass-lined cylinder, 1 6in. x 4in. fast and loose
pulleys. Capacity, 2000 gals, per hour.
Price £47/10/-
6-15.—Larger Model. Capacity, 3000 gals, .per
hour. Price £*»6
Efficient Post Drills,—
Well made and easy to
handle.
No. 61, drills up to fin.
holes. Price .... 457-
No. 611, drills up t
fin. holes. Price, 52/
No. 614, drills up to
I in- holes. Price, 67/8
No. 616, drills up to
1 £in. holes. Price, 87/6
05 0
W 3)
ďf
Postal A ddress
Box 2712 c, G.P.O .
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night


IiIUiHUT
'
U 4 ifT'
£ *\ it*.
a.v >
i. .
> i
ISm
r-w
A W'f
-h
5
■
X?
i«
5!
jf\
L
•5^
Popularity Based on
Value and Performance
ILL motordom enthusiastically approves
the beauty, economy and appointments
of Essex the Challenger and the Greater
Hudson. In thousands of demonstrations,
motorists thrill to the speed, performance and
stamina of these fine Super-Sixes. They admire
the colours, lines and fittings, the weatherproof
double-acting 4-wheel brakes and the wide selec-
tion of bodies. Thousands are inspecting them,
driving them and buying them !
Such popularity is not achieved by chance. It is
based upon motordom’s recognition of outstand-
ing value and performance. Both Essex the
Challenger and the Greater Hudson offer more
expensive features than many cars costing far
more. See these two Super-Sixes at your Hudson-
Essex dealers. Inspect the Greater Hudson with
its 14 body styles on 2 chassis lengths and Essex
the Challenger with 7 types of bodies. Then you
will understand the reason for the sweeping popu-
larity of these two great cars.
The
GREATER HUDSON
and ESSEX The Challenger
ESSEX PRICES AT SYDNEY.
5 Balloon Tyres Standard Equipment.
Tourer (Australian Body) £290
Standard Sedan (Australian Body) 365
Standard Roadster (Australian Body) . . . . 290
Coupe (Imported Body) 385
Convertible Coupe (Imported Body) 395
Town Sedan (Imported body, with bumper bars) . , ~ 420
HUDSON PRICES AT SYDNEY.
5 Balloon Tyres Standard Equipment.
Hudson—l22in. Wheelbase.
Roadster (Imported Body) £5OO
Coupe (Imported Body) 535
Standard Sedan (Imported Body) 535
Tourer (Imported Body) 550
139 in. Wheelbase.
7 Passenger Phaeton (Imported Body) £630
7 Passenger Sedan (Imported Body) 775
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY
DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Stret, Sydney.
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
AUTOS LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
MOTORS LIMITED,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.
Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.


I
L
•mi
rjj
I r in«*
l|||l‘'M|NEse 4ftTr COU
B*9
Vh'\
CHINATOWN
SAN FRANCISCO
TRAVELLING via Fiji, Pago Pago, and
Honolulu by the fast and comfortable
Matson-Oceanic Line, you arrive at San Fran-
cisco—the finest and most convenient centre on
the Pacific Coast from which to visit California’s Wonderland. It is also the
most convenient hopping off point for your trip across the United States.
Right in the heart of San Francisco is its famous China Town the most striking
and complete piece of China outside the Celestial Empire. Brilliantly illuminated
at night, it presents a weird and wonderful picture. You are transported in a
few minutes into an entirely new world. Its curio shops, Chop Suey Houses,
Temples, etc., are a source of endless enjoyment to visitors.
This is only one of the attractions of San Francisco itself, and one of the many
wonders which your trip across the American Continent reveals.
FARES- Sydney to San Francisco and Return, £125/10/- First Class, £B7 Second Class.
'Sydney to New York and Return, £167/18/8 First Class, £129/8/8 Second Class.
Sydney to London —Single, £129 First Class throughout, £ll7/10/- First Class to New
York and Second Class on Atlantic Steamer; £97 Second Class Steamer and First Class
Rail. Return, £245 First Class, £lBO/10/- Second Class.
Call or write for descriptive pamphlets, fare lists, sailing dates and other information.
S.S. SIERRA S.S. SONOMA S.S. VENTURA
SAILING EVERY THIRD SATURDAY
For Suva, Pago Pago, Honolulu and San Francisco. Special Cheap Excursion
Tickets issued to Honolulu all the year round.
TUI STBMiSiiIP €>©.
Matoon lime
12 Bridge Street, Sydney
Local Agents: Mcllwaith McEacharn Ltd., 94-96 William St., Melbourne: 117-119 King
William St., Adelaide; Fremantie, Perth, Albany; Howard Smith Ltd., Brisbane, 7 ownsvillc
England, by Chas. Chapman, officiating
minister. He writes his Christian name
Henry Clarence; born Ulladulla; civil ser-
vant; residing Sydney. Father’s name,
Basil Kendall; mother’s name, Hill.
(Apparently Kendall was not aware of his
mother’s maiden name; he gave the name
of the Parramatta family who had brought
her up after childhood.)
A. G. S.
Pacifism and Education
H. G. Wells’s idea of fighting physically
for peace (R.P. 10/7/’29) probably comes
from his conception, developed most com-
pletely in “The Open Conspiracy,” of a
band of idealists warring to conquer the
world for unified world government. But
common or garden wars usually spring from
patriotism and ignorance developing into
jealousy and hate, and physical warfare,
conducted even with the best of motives,
ran never destroy these roots. The only
way they can be attacked is by education,
and because of this our educational system
needs reorientation, to be an education for
world, instead of merely national, citizenship.
Most Australians who leave school at 14
are hardly educated at all; they are
simply literate. As Wells has pointed out,
far greater emphasis should he placed on
world history and the national history shown
clearly as a part of it. The syllabus com-
pilers need to conceive history as the Ex-
planation of the World As It Is, and thus
give the future citizen a broad, historical
background. This would dispel much of the
prevalent ignorance of international affairs,
such as the idea that the White Australia
policy, an economic protective measure, is
a tactless assertion of race superiority..
This new teaching of history would induce
better understanding between us and the
stranger in our midst. Even now the bad
feeling shown by the barracking of visit-
ing cricketers and rumored race riots at
Innisfail is not universal. On every indus-
trial enterprise in Australia men of various
English accents work harmoniously with
sundry “foreigners.” The new education
would give men greater stability and lessen
the mob hysterias of the sporting field;
indeed, without some better education De-
mocracy tends towards mob hysteria alto-
gether. At calmer moments the anti-foreign
prejudice is usually manifested by clean-
collar workers; their only experience of the
foreigner is across a counter, when the
foreigner, with his linguistic weakness, shows
at his worst. On the job, among those he
feels his equals, mutual goodwill can make
up for much lack of language. Contact
makes for confidence and lessens ignorant
jealousy.
On the subject of war, most laboring men
would say, “My mate, Joe the Dago, is a
good chap. What do we want to fight his
cobbers for? We won’t get any good out
of it!” If that spirit can be spread among
all classes of the State by a sympathetic
understanding of how nations have de-
veloped and differentiated, the object of
pacifism will be achieved.
C. C. ARTHUR.
O’Neill’s Marco Polo
It was a kind thought of Philip Lindsay
to suggest (R.P. 31/7/’29) that I had passed
judgment upon Marco Polo without ever
having read him. As a matter of fact, I
found him an excellent guide-book when
travelling over a great deal of the route
he had covered. And that is what the
“Travels” are—a guide-book by a Baedeker
with the good fortune to have an entirely
new world on which to exercise his powers
of observation. As for Marco’s “beautiful
feeling for words,” he did not write the
book ascribed to him at all. He yarned it
to a fellow prisoner who was himself a dis-
tinguished writer; and it is nearly all tran-
scribed either in the third person singular
or the first plural (the editorial “we”), a
fact which seems to have escaped Mr. Lind-
say’s scampering attention. Where the “I”
is used, no more personality is revealed than
there is in a legal document.
O’Neill, when he wrote his play on Polo,
came to a realistic conclusion which was
at least not contradicted by the facts be-
fore him; Mr. Lindsay writes a column of
digression to justify a stereotyped opinion
founded on nothing but his own romantic
cravings. The fact is that Marco’s book
is valuable historically to-day precisely
because he was a Babbitt, but one with a
strong sense of objective reality. He de-
scribed things as he saw them. He had little
imagination. That was why he undertook
his journey. Imaginative people stay* at
home, and “ghost” the stories of the real
adventurers. They are afraid of the dark.
But the dark had no terrors for Marco,
because he had no imagination with which
to people it. The imaginative travellers
who did overcome their fears and penetrate
the blackness of Tartary left records which,
by comparison with Polo’s, are almost
worthless. John of Monte Corvino, Odoric,
Jordanus and John de Marignolli were
monks, theologians, romanticists. They saw
only what they wanted to see—a habit as
prevalent to-day as in the third century.
M. G. SKIPPER.
The Crime of Sylvester Viereck
The Victorian police lately confiscated My
First Two Thousand Years, by George
Sylvester Viereck and Paul Eldridge (Duck-
worth). And quite right, too. There was
a chance that the volume might get into
the hands of the wrong person and that
he might fall asleep in reading it and crack
his skull against the hearthstone. ihe
book has 468 pages, mainly composed of a
philosophy as abstruse to the general reader
as the differential calculus.
The Wandering Jew arrives at a monas-
terv on Mount Athos shortly after the
Great War and on the same evening as
two American scientists, one a psychologist.
Ahasuerus agrees to be psycho-analysed, the
psychologist puts him into a hypnotic
sleep and he recounts his autobiography
from the time when, as a young Jewish
mercenary in the employ of Rome, he
earned the dubious boon of mundane im-
mortality as a punishment for jeering at
his Saviour. Thus far the book follows the
traditional legend. It has been used by a
myriad writers for various purposes. Eugene
Sue used it in 1844 as an excuse for talking
about, the Jesuits; here it is used as a
medium for a rationalistic and realistic re-
interpretation of history, love, life, religion
and a multitude of other enigmas. But, as
everybody who is familiar with his poetry
knows, Viereck’s rationalism is mixed with
as acute a sense of infinity as is Sir Oliver
Lodge’s science. The result is a work of
rich interest and variety, the pornographic
element of no more relative importance
than is Shakspeare’s.
In the course of his perambulations up
and down the globe the Peripatetic Hebrew
becomes a merchant, a magician, a Grand
Vizier and a millionaire and meets Nero,
Attila, Mohammed, Prester John, Charle-
magne, Shakspeare, Bacon, Voltaire and
Rothschild; and to the elucidation of all
these personages he adds an inimitable con-
tribution. All sides of the Wandering Jew
being painted and not merely a single
aspect, his erotic adventures are given due
consideration. He philanders with Pilate’s
wife, has an amour with Popp®a; notes
that Marcus Aurelius’s lady is horribly
bored with the public readings of the famous
Meditations; discovering that Don Juan
is not the Great Lover but merely a sexual
braggart, does society a good turn by put-
ting him out of his misery; tests the
validity of the Moslem conception of a
hereafter of continuous self-indulgence by
establishing an enormous harem at Bagdad
in which his Islamic friends perish miser-
ablv; and has other remarkable adventures.
He meets that Pope who was a Borgia and
makes him talk pure rationalism. On the
spiritual side, however, his attack is not
against religion, but against the perversion
of it. On the material side his experiences
are in accordance with the Marxian thesis.
In his wanderings through the centuries he
has acquired real estate in every country.
Using the Rothschilds as agents, he secures
control of the financial resources of the
universe. Thus he is International Capital,
the real ruler of peoples. But 2000 years
of earthly experience have given his aspira-
tions no particular direction. Thus he is
the symbol of Accumulated Information.
He meditates an alliance with Lenin. His
final conclusion before he comes out of his
trance is that “all is vanity save love; love,
too. is vanity; and the truth of all things
is—irony.”
That is the book which the Victorian
police saw fit to seize at a time when
pictures like “Captain Lash” are allowed to
circulate freely through the Commonwealth.
The one sort of entertainment is surveyed
by millions; the other was likely to have as
limited a circulation as the latest work on
the ductless glands and their secretions. If
any one of General Blarney’s cops really
read “My First Two Thousand Years”
through, he must have acquired a beautiful
headache.
A Satchel of Books
»S Hr Peter's Arms, by Michael Cobb (Chap-
man and Hall). A millionaire loses an arm
in a motor accident and pays a pickpocket
£2OOO for his. After the operation Sir Peter
finds that his new arm functions as if it
still belonged to Bill Harris. Good farce,
with plenty of movement.
One Alan's War, by Lieuts. Bert Hall and
John J. Niles (Holt; Robertson and Mul-
lens). This is what Edgar Wallace isn’t —
a hair-raiser. Hall was a professional rac-
ing cyclist who in 1905 took to the air in
France in the daugerous ’buses then extant.
A born soldier of fortune, he observed for
the Turks against the Bulgars and later for
the Bulgars against the Turks. Touring
Europe doing exhibition flights when the
1914 war burst, he joined the French army
and later was one of the seven foundation
members of the Lafayette Escadrille, the
American aviation corps which was financed
by a millionaire and served France, heroi-
cally a good year before Wilson decided he
wasn’t too proud to fight. Lufbery was one
of its famous aces. Later Hall was sent to
Russia to pull that country’s flying forces
together; saw the Czar’s power vanish in a
night and Kerensky’s crumble, and escaped
via Siberia to U.S.A. with his clothing
stuffed with diamonds. He returned to
France in time to see the first American
troops arrive, and his remarks about them
are somewhat * acid. The book is mainly
composed of unexpurgated extracts from
his diary—frank, Rabelaisian, but revealing
the character of the born soldier, half-sen-
timentalist, half-caveman, as no other form
of narration could do. Here is one of the
references to Australians :
During dinner, this Aussie pilot named McCormick
got to layin’ down the law about an old bucko named
Hargrave from Woolhara, a village somewhere in or
near Australia, who invented, or rather discovered,
ai] there was to know about aviation. There is one
thing about these Australians —they are strong for
their own people. I thought that I wouldn’t argue
with McCormick, as he was not only sober, but a
captain into the bargain, and seemed to know his
facts.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of communications
Same and address must appear an the MS. So liability is undertaken re
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be return ed unless stamps accompany.
Too Dizzy: It cheered a dull morning....
R.D.: Thank you ; we will include Dick Sleath among
the still-living Broken Hill “conspirators” of over
35 years ago... .W.T.: Much obliged. Interesting....
A.F.G.: “Corpse” interred in the w.p.b G.S.:
Why write about the girl if she’s as attractive as
all that?... .1.E.: If it had been done as an abo.
rock-carving professors would have written odes about
it... .L.S.W.: It came, it bored, and it was stonkered.
. ...H.8.: “The Glow” is even further off than “The
Stars”... .R.U.E.: Poor, but never mind—it was a
Poet Laureate who sang:—
Across the wires the painful message came:
“He is no better—he is much the same!”
. ...M.G.8.: Nothing there... .L.V.S.: “Save Our
Alsatians” passed on to the prize bulldog of the
Graziers’ Association....D.W.: View of trees as
“strangely twisted obelisks” is proof of imagination,
or something....P.ll.: “First in the Field” catches
the bird P.R.: Won’t do M.L.: Tried, and
found guilty of being dead. .. .Clover: Burnt olf. ...
D.M.C.: Baimsfather is still on deck ; his sketches
frequently appear in English and American papers.
Valway: “Glad l shall be many miles away
when you are perusing the enclosed.” You needn’t
have rubbed it in like that... .J.S.L.: The opening
stanza of your “ode” rather appeals to us:—
Here’s a health to Boredrain men who ride miles of
drains unknown
To coves that live in cities and are often wont to
moan
Re tho grave unjustices of the Tram or Ferry I ares,
Of scanty Basic Wages or of weather tips by Mares.
. ...E.R.: The annals of Benjamin axe unevent-
ful... . D.8.H.: Crude, yet. it has traces of talent
13: ;JIo apples for “Adam and Eve”... .0.A.J.:
“Corned Beef with Salad” is 0ff....J.H.: Not a
bad story, but why did you make your Digger talk
like a Doughboy? T.C.G.: A waste of good paper.
R.L.: Your “lyric of the bush” is the bush of
a lyric S.R.V.: “Ghosts of Georgc-street” sent
to Conan Doyle for verification Hag: “Poverty”
—precisely W.M.: Drawing of pump, physical-
culture article, the truth about Oscar Wilde, sonnet,
or whatever it is, now in hands of finger-print expert.
p.B.: The rhyme to a fag has gone up in smoke.
C.C.T.: As mouldy as the yarn Pharaoh’s
daughter told T.L.: Have read worse, but not
often A.F.H. (California): But if you long so
much for the true Australia, surely it is not far
to Hollywood.... Beut: “Sirens of the Beach” re-
minds us of boyish days on the Darling. .. .D.J.S.:
“Judy” has taken the punch W.F.: Ushering in
old friends: —
They shirk work all day long,
Around the coast to Melbourne,
And back to old Bong Bong.
I’ve offered them work myself, Sir,
But they won’t do the job.
They don’t want to earn a. caser
They’d sooner borrow two bob,
And borrow a bob they will, Sir,
Nipping all night and day,
And then they will start whining,
If they can’t get their own way.
So lads, don’t join the shirkers,
Or you won’t get on in life.
Work and save like Scotchmen,
And then many a wife.
.„ „. J.O.tV.: It is available in book form as “A
House Is Built”; 7s. 6d Lambton: Keep those
pars down. And don’t imagine that The Bulletin'
is interested in the ravings of little local union
secretaries. That section gets a thousand times as
much space as it deserves... .J.0.H.: Has brevity,
but where’s the wit?... .H.L.M.: “Topics of a
Type” not our type; other tales unattractive
G.P.: Excites interest only to end lamely... .J.0.H.:
Horse yarn has the stringhalt... .D.W.M.: Twenty-
nine words to say that cocks crow in the early
morning... .C.C. : Not enough sail on the boat to
carry it h0me....W.5.: Apparently you are using
tho story to air a grievance... .E.R.E.: Lack of a
sense of humor spoils the ending. .. .G.D.S.: iou
might place it, but not here.... Esau: Too little
salt in the pottage... .J.W.: Some merit in the
story; redundant and artificial style. .. .Violet:
Simple and well meant, but not suitable....ll.lt !-.
Clear the ring for the bulls: —
On yonder slope 1 fear there’s mischief brewing
’Tween those Angry Bulls a scrap is sure ensuing.
With parrying hoofs they uproot the Soil,
And near-by Jumbucks in haste and fear recoil.
Onward they come with haughty mein,
Fitting picture for movies screen.
Mark how the herd of yonder cattle
Scamper from the field of impending battle l
With heaving sides and nostrils bleeding,
Now of scarred and bloody hides unheeding,
To and fro the mighty contest rages
Worthy of the early Roman Ages.
But swift through the storm-swept riven sky
Comes the fateful Arbiter from high.
A lightning Hash and thunder peal
Causes both Pugnacious Bulls to reel.
Thus a noble battle so bravely fought
To a tragic end was strangely brought.
.'... A.McG.: The w.p.b. rejected it....W.T.: An
idea, but you handle it poorly .T.O’N.: What,
another “Spring”? That axe-handle’s getting itchy.
.... Fullup: Loud heav-hears in advance: —
I’d rather meet a dentist
Psycho-analyst or thug
Than the energetic lady
With the organising bug.
. ...K.McK.: We’re beginning to loathe that bridge.
C.W.: Don’t fancy ’em E.J.P.: Might be
saleable elsewhere.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.S.A.: We met your rum-drinking abo. before
the Boer War.... J.T.: Aeroplane sketch failed to
leave the ground A.K.: Your Papuans talk like
music-hall coons Y.S.: Tame drawing of skinny
typist and seedy boss.... C. R. : That gag came out
with the First Fleet... .L.M.L.: We can find room
for them —but it won’t be in The Bulletin
M.P.: If you. must illustrate puns, don’t lift them
from “Alice in Wonderland”... .F.A.: Think out
fresh gags and come again... .G.P.: Wash is muddy,
but you are not so green C.C.R.: The soldier
who forgot to shave fought at Agincourt J. 0.8.:
Drawings fair, but the jokes are old N. 11.:
Studies of Central Australian types not what we
want; but try again J.W.E. :/Thanks for speci-
mens of sozzled stoker’s wit, but this is a family
paper.... W.G.: All dummies.*.. .8.C.: Take the
best offer you can get for your drawing-pen.


d
ďfd
/
i
%
a vi*
l; ■ BH
# tfc
I .,i«
*'< f
. ■ ' •'£& -. !
' i :/: . : i
s^iiissiiSir
s
/> :xv
l
1 1
few?
IS!
1 *
& : v
k.^y”Ji
S3
i
PM- ■ i"i
■i
i
I
.7
I : .
■ m
cmg ,..
&©
■ ■
m
SPWP
I
l *
♦*
:l
•V -v: '
Sfi
■
i
■
, 7«$
'-f> :,,
11
« m
fW:^-
Aw-':* ■ ‘< •
IkK* * • - : ■
■
’
■WwSm
WMSW
mi
wmm
:
'WfrtVWm
:■ -
'VV >
, Jflli ■Brafc i’
_■/jfe * •. 1 &,
R>-
V : ,
df
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 50.—N0. 3584.
August 21, 1929.
THE ECCLESIASTICAL HUNT.
“The committee deputed to select a new archbishop for Melbourne is still appealing to members of the English clergy and receiving refusals, though there are
suitable men in Australia.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man."
HEAD OFFICE:
214 George Street, Sydney; Box 252188.
Victoria: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 249 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Regent 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to anv address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d. ;
3 months, 7s.
To anv address OVERSEAS: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. Gd.; S months x Ss.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, Few Zealand and
Fiji: lOoz., Id. United Kingdom ■■ joz. to 10oz., l\d.;
each additional 403., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 40 z. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
PRAISE FROM ARNOLD BENNETT . . . . 2
KENDALL’S NAME AND AGE 2
O’NEILL’S MARCO POLO 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . . . 5
THE FRONT-PAGE CARTOON, BY LEASON .. 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
AUSTRALIA DISARMS . 8
THE CIVIL WAR 8
TORPEDOES 8
NO AUSTRALIAN NEED APPLY .. ..8
THE MONEY-LENDER 8
DANGEROUS COMPETITOR'S 9
SEVEN HUNDRED YEARS OLD .. ..9
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 9
POLITICS 10
AN lAN GALL CARTOON 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. .. n, 12
PERSONAL (with caricatures) . . .. . . 14
POVERTY POINT 15
CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..17
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS .. . . .. IS, 20
AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE .. 18
MERCANTILE MUTUAL 18
YELLOW CABS 18
HOWARD MOTOR CO .. ..18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) , . 23, 25
Free Service Department .. 28
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 31
SHORTENING SAIL 28
SETTING FARM IMPLEMENTS . . . . 28
THE POTATO CROP ..28
SMOKE-OH 32
PEN AND PICTURE 35
ART SHOWS 35
THE INKY WAY .35
BUSINESS, ROBBERY 30
SPORTING (illustrated) .. .. ..39, 41, 42
ROSEHILL RACES 39
FLEMINGTON RACES 39
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER .. . . . 44
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 46
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 49
“Paradise Plumes” .. .. 50,51,52
COMPLETE SHORT STORIES—
“CHARITY,” by J. H. M. Abbott .. 55, 57
“THE SEA GIVETH,” by R. Exon
Butchart . . . . .. . . 57, 58
VERSE.—By Roderic Quinn, Llywelyn Lucas,
Dulcie Deamer, Eileen Duggan, Elsie
Cole 55, 58
Next Week.
“RUFUS ESCAPES,” by Margaret Fane and
Hilary Lofting.
“POLO—AND HIPPY,” by Steele Rudd.
TTuTtfeulZeiz/ri
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 21, 1929.
AUSTRALIA DISARMS.
Every patriotic Australian who has watched
military developments overseas—and more
particularly in the countries which have
ports on the Pacific—was dismayed hy
Lieut.-General Chauvel’s endorsement of
the “Nationalist” Government’s Defence
cuts. The very man who warned the nation
in report after report that the C.M.F.,
starved of funds, was short of every requisite
now deprecates criticism of Bruce-Page’s
crazy assault on the Defence estimates, at a
time when, to quote a London cablegram,
“even Viscount Cecil, that famous worker
for peace, admits that present tendencies in
international affairs are disquieting.”
Since Federal Labor, which was primarily
responsible for national military training,
has gone pacifist, and since party discipline
prevents most of the Nationalists and
Country-party men from speaking their
minds on any issue, the meaning of the
Inspector-General’s change of front is that
the policy which gave Federation a. spiritual
meaning, and brought this country world
renown, is now without an official defender.
Yet it is doubtful if it ever needed a
defender more. The sabotaging of the up-
country technical arms, which is supposed to
smell sweeter under the name of “re-
organisation,” and the abandonment of
infantry and Light Horse training over
great parts of N. S. Wales and Victoria
will save a little in maintenance and
the troops’ travelling expenses. According
to Defence Minister Glasgow, the doomed
batteries at Wagga and Goulburn (N.SAV.)
“cost approximately £550 per annum mor?
per battery than a Sydney battery”— an
expenditure which looks comic by com-
parison with the millions thrown away by
Bruce-Page on State speedways and Royal
Commissions. In this contemptible spirit
are “savings” to be made. But the loss in
national prestige is going to be enormous.
The Diggers created the valuable impres-
sion abroad that they were not only natural
but trained soldiers, and to a great extent
they were. A detachment of Australians went
through a course as, say, artillery drivers in
England, and were discharged, as ready for
the line, in half the time taken by average
British recruits—six weeks as against three
months. The chief reason was that most
of the Diggers had been trained, or partly
trained, at home. Apart from the virtues
which are inculcated by military training,
and apart from the reluctance of possible
enemies to tackle people with a reputation
for owning such virtues, the system which
is now evidently marked for extinction has
been a great citizen-builder. It did much
to inoculate young Australia with the A.l.F.’s
spirit of unity and national pride, and there
is no other medium by which it can be
imparted. Soon, apparently, there will be
few left with the capacity to impart it.
According to the S. M. Herald:—
“About 100 of the 300 Permanent Artil-
lery engineers have taken their discharges.
The Government’s ‘economy campaign’ has had
a very unsettling effect upon the permanent
men, and they appear to be taking the first
opportunities of getting other employment
before ‘the axe’ falls upon them.”
In fact the Government is bringing the
very factor of uncertainty which it de-
plores as ruinous to Australian industry into
the sphere of national defence.
Australia might have some warrant for
jettiso'nising rifles and bayonets if it were
taking steps to replace them with something
else, as most of the other nations are doing.
On Salisbury Plain nowadays tanks may be
seen by the score and tankettes by the
hundred. The heavily-armored tankette
(single- or double-seater) with machine-
gun, which travels at 20 m.p.h. and is practi-
cally unstoppable, may do more damage
than a company of infantry. Armored
lorries, armored cars, tanks, tankettes,
dragon-drawn howitzers, field-guns and
heavy guns—all these may-be seen in Eng-
land, Italy and France; in Russia, Japan
and the U.S.A. In all these countries, as
an old unit goes its place is taken by a
new mechanised unit. The Australians are
the only fighting people on earth who
are divesting themselves of weapons which
are held to be obsolescent (though they
did great work in Palestine) and making
no attempt to acquire the new ones.
THE CIVIL WAR IN AUSTRALIA.
The timber strike is over in the ordinary-
sense of the term, which ,is to say that the
industry is going again, land plenty of
capable men are available to keep it going.
But in N. S. Wales a number of irrecon-
cilables, who find leisure and union pay
very satisfactory, keep striking whether
there is a strike or not. Apparently they
may do this for years, and their sons after
them, for the capacity of the Communists
who run this kind of civil war to extract
contributions from Australian workers seems
almost unlimited.
The ridiculous nature of the situation was
recently explained by a deputation to
N.S.W. Minister Ball, who was stricken with
mild surprise. He was told that even if the
law is sufficiently foolish to allow “peaceful
picketing” during a strike, the ferocious
“mass” picketing of a. big industry, which
is in full working order under the condi-
tions laid down by a Federal Arbitration
Court, is something quite different. It isn’t
sufficient to get an occasional conviction
against one “basher” out of hundreds and
hand him a very mild sentence for the
damage he has done. The duty of
the law is to prevent the damage
being done, and to disperse the mobs
which hang around factory gates with no
possible excuse save that they intend violent
interference with law-abiding Australian
workers. They should be dispersed before
they have a chance to do violence. Those
who won’t disperse, or who require dispersal
too often, should be locked up with a sure
hand, and there should be sufficient force,
and sufficient will behind that force, to do
this.
An endeavor was made to explain to
Minister Ball that it is a great and imbecile
mistake to treat this row as if it was a war
between recognised nations. The leaders of
these men are not generals representing a
hostile Government and entitled to due con-
sideration under Hague Convention rules;
still less are they and their forces exempt
from the disability of being confined as
prisoners of war till peace is restored. If
it is a war (a class war, as the leaders
allege)—and it takes on all the attributes
thereof except the uniform—then the duty
of chasing away or capturing the hostile
troops when they assemble for action looks
obvious enough. Simple facts about the civil
war having been laid before the surprised
Minister Ball, he said that he would, in
due course, lay them before the astonished
Cabinet, and they would have “serious
consideration.” Evidently the Cabinet
hadn’t been previously impressed by the
idea that there is something beyond the
ordinary when the men who organise an
illegal stoppage of industry establish a
permanent form of brigandage, and promise
to keep the country in alarm, misery and
disorder.
The Federal Government has realised the
situation better than its State brethren,
though Bruce and Page are not quick of
apprehension. It has established Federal
Arbitration Courts; but the Commonwealth
has no police to support its courts. Nor
has it any prisons into which to put objec-
tionables; the Constitution says it may put
them into State prisons, but experience has
shown that State Ministries can immediately
let them out again. It has been decided
that there is no Federal authority to expel
revolutionary and riotous outsiders, though
it has been proved that a State authority
exists. In the circumstances there is much
to be said for the idea that the Common-
wealth should go out of the Arbitration
line of business. It is said that chaos will
supervene; but chaos supervenes already.
Under much improved conditions the Com-
monwealth might come in again, but it is
difficult to see, what it gains by staying in
at present.
TORPEDOES.
Another oj Mr. Abbott’s studies of
the Royal Australian Navy at work.
Sitting in the wardroom one evening after
dinner, I yarned with “Torfs” and “Guns.”
They are men whose lives are devoted to
a study of the best means of destroying
large numbers of their fellow-creatures and
the wonderful works of naval architects,
but they scarcely looked the part. “Guns”
knows how to go one better than the
obliteration of the Cities of the Plain.
To “Torps” it is easy to blow up and
sink anything that floats on the surface
of the sea. Yet “Guns” might have been any
sort of lively good fellow to be met with
anywhere, and “Torps” a professor of
mathematics of the mildly erudite and
deferential type. They could make me
marvel as to the nervous sensibilities of
gyroscopes, the potentialities of damp gun-
cotton, the value of “spotting,” and the
direful effects of almost perpendicular
descents of projectiles into warships’ maga-
zines, but they only wanted to hear what
it feels like to be hard up in Grub-street,
how Archibald and Jack Haynes founded
The Bulletin, and how_ newspapers are
put together on the “stone.”
Several times I saw “Guns” when he was
conducting a full-calibre Bin. shoot from
his wheeling turrets, or potting away at
smokeballs 10,000 yards up in the sky with his
4in. anti-aircraft H.A. guns—suave, precise,
cool and critical. And I saw “Torps” at his
little games, too—quiet, competent, sure
of his torpedo-crews, and full of faith in
his adjutant, Commissioned Gunner (T).
They had bugled, and piped, and announ-
ced “Night Stations” on the loud-speakers
at 5.30 p.m., so all the scuttles were dark-
ened, and hatches closed, and lights on deck
snuffed out. The ship became, from Fraser
Island, a big, empty, haunted house standing
on a bleak moor, when night presently fell.
As the Canberra glided past to starboard,
and disappeared in the murk, we could see
ourselves as others saw us. So the Admiral
and the Captain went on the bridge, and we
got under way. In terms of warfare of 30
years ago, we sneaked out of the lines in
the dark to do a bit of sniping, and very
naturally, and for our own safety, put our
pipes out.
Against the stars on that windy eminence,
dim figures occupied themselves intently.
1^ heard the Admiral’s boyish laugh, and the
Captain’s clear-cut tones on the navigating
bridge in front, and the Commander (N)
said something to the midshipman of the
watch which could not have given that
young gentleman great pleasure. Ahead,
the two big turrets, one above the other,
loomed below our level against the long
illusive plain of the fo’c’s’le, and behind us
the lengthy body of the ship supported the
three big funnels, and the H.A. gun-deck,
and the after-turrets. There was not a
gleam of light anywhere but very dimly
over the control-dials. The crew were at
Action Stations.
By the starboard torpedo-controls I
became aware of the burly figure of
“Torps,” who talked to the deck below,
where, for’ard of the engine-room casing,
his two quartettes of 21in. torpedo-tubes
poke out their sensual noses on either beam,
nearly 30 feet above the waterline. His
quiet voice enunciated confident technical
jargon I did not understand, but which, in
that dark and silent setting, suggested some
devilish incantation, the prelude to murder.
Time w r ent on, and we raced across the
dark va'stnesses of Hervey Bay towards a
bright star hanging in the sky low down,
like a masthead light, the accentuated hum
of the turbines and the throbbing of the
ship suggesting speed. Mile after mile of
black water slid by, and a cold wind
whistled about our ears. Then, suddenly,
a searchlight clicked on, and a beam of
silver-blue radiance shot out from the other
side of the bridge. “Torps” went to the port
controls, and I followed, fascinated. The
shaft of light caught something grey and
solid, and illuminated it against a black
void.
I heard “Guns” talking into a voice-
tube. “Fire star-shells!” he said.
Then things happened. The 4in. guns
behind the funnels crashed, one after
another, and presently high lamps in the
sky, as the parachute flares sank slowly
seaward, lit the Canberra like a floodlight
advertisement. Other lamps drifted over
her. There was a puffing hiss from amid-
ships, and a torpedo leapt with a rushing
splash into the sea—and then another.
More searchlights focussed on the target-
ship. Slow minutes went by—several of
them—and at last two tiny yellow flares
lit the distant surface beyond the long,
grey hull. The two tin-fish had dived under-
neath the Canberra.
I heard the Admiral’s clear voice: “Oh.
very well done, Torpedo-officer—very well
done indeed !”
They don’t issue much praise in the Navy,
and it was a pity “Torps” didn’t hear. He
had his ear-’phones on.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
No Australian Need Apply.
After a century and a half Australia is
still humbly giving preference to strangers
from overseas in key jobs, and denying
some of the key jobs to any but strangers.
Leading positions in the churches, uni-
versities and colleges go to men whose
only advantage over the local products
is that they have been trained abroad.
The miserable practice goes right down the
scale. No Australian stage performer has
a chance against a Britisher or Yankee.
Some of the States even import their key
agitators.
The thing began in the days when the
country was so uneducated that it had to
bring in judges, magistrates and most of the
lawyers who pleaded before them. Mili-
tary commandants were always imported,
and the navy was all-British. At that time,
and for long afterwards, a Governor had
greater powers than his Sovereign.
The war reduced the whole system to
absurdity. When it began the popular
theory was that Australians could only
fight under British leadership; it ended
with an Australian-born militiaman lead-
ing the A.I.F. with the help of an Aus-
tralian staff. The Dominions evolved
into self-governing nations, and Dominion
Governors, who had been recognised as
powerless in Colonial Office circles for many
years, stood out before the world as holders
of well-paid sinecures.
There is no more justification now
for saying that an Australian is not fit
to function as a Governor, or Governor-
General, than there was in 1918 for saying
that an Australian was not fit to lead his
country’s Army Corps. On the contrary,
with a British Government talking of
abolishing preferences, dropping the Singa-
pore Base scheme, and risking the safety of
the Canal in the name of Egyptian self-
determination, there are plenty of reasons
why the liaison officer between this country
and the U.K. should be a native with the
fullest understanding of its national out-
look.
Australia can never be adequately
spoken for in Downing-street by Governors
who develop so little real interest in the
country that four out of five fail to com-
plete their terms, and few ever trouble to
visit it again.
«
Mud-slinging—lts Uses and Abuses.
“Melbourne Barrister” writes:—
Some months ago an article appeared in
The Bulletin deprecating the ordeal to
which a girl who had been assailed by a
band of roughs was subjected on cross-
examination. It even went to the length of
suggesting that steps ought to be taken to
prevent such licensed cruelty on the part
of the defending counsel. The writer over-
looked the fact that the purpose of such a
trial is to test whether or no the girl is
telling the truth.
Let us see what might happen otherwise.
A young policeman was lately charged with
a capital offence in Melbourne. His accuser,
who claimed that she had been married and
divorced, was a picture of wronged inno-
cence. Defending counsel’s instructions were
that her story was untrue from beginning
to end, and that she was too well known.
The lady wept every time it was suggested
that she was not of virtuous habits. She
gave the date and place of her marriage, the
names of the officiating minister, of the
parties and of the witnesses, and (with some
hesitation) of her children,, and was
unabashed when told that the Registrar-
General’s office had no record of the child-
ren, and that the Crown doctor’s evidence
was quite inconsistent with her story. That
night the police found that the story also
of the marriage was false, and next day
she capitulated.
After that the man who will suggest that
any woman’s story is to be accepted without
question must have little regard for the
safety of his sex.
Far from suggesting that “any woman’s
story is to be accepted without question”
The Bulletin said:—
If a girl’s unsupported statement is to be
believed, even the statement of a girl “of
irreproachable character” (which may only
mean one who has not been criminally con-
victed), then no man in the community will
be safe from blackmail.
All it demanded was more decency in cross-
examination. There is a big difference be-
tween a known street-walker and a girl
with nothing on record against her. What
The Bulletin insists is that a certain type
of criminal defender is far too ready to
recklessly plaster the second type of com-
plainant with mud supplied by the accused.
«
The Money-lender.
The legislation which the Vic. Government
has introduced to control money-lending
should be followed by other States, notably
N. S. Wales. Already Britain has put an
effective check on the ancient trade. In
nine months Lord Darling’s Act (1926)
reduced the money-lending firms in that
country from 30,000 to 6000.
In Australia a minor may be charged £1
for the use of £5 for a month; in Britain
it is an offence to deal with minors, and
interest in the case of adults is limited


THE IMMORTALS.
“There will always be war until there are Judges for nations as well as criminals.”— Premier Briand.
BILL SIKES: “Don’t you worry about Judges, Mars! What have they ever done to abolish me?”
to 48 p.c. Here circularising and the use
of touts are allowed; in Britain they are
illegal. In Australia many usurers escape
odium, when they behave unconscionably,
by camouflaging themselves as the So-and-
So Finance Co.; in Britain money-lenders
may have no style but that of one or more
shareholders in the business.
It is a British press convention to refuse
money-lenders’ advts., and so the 1926 Act
did not trouble to ban this form of pub-
licity. Some check is necessary in Aus-
tralia, for it is the publicity they get
through the papers that enables the worst
of them to prosper.
Plain Talk in the Possessions.
“Bouragi”: B. J. McKenna, Under-Secre-
tary of the Queensland Department of
Public Instruction, has been investigating
education matters in Mandated New Guinea
on behalf of the Australian Government.
He found to his surprise that some of the
missions not only do not teach English
to their native charges, but are inclined
to resist any official attempt to make the
teaching of English compulsory.
This trouble cropped up long ago in
Papua. Sir William Macgregor, wisest
and most subtle of Administrators, deal! with
it firmlv. He insisted that English should
be taught by all missions, and should be
the official language of all Government
officers. Neglected during the Le Hunte-
Barton interregnum, this wise rule came
into full force again under Murray, with
the result that it is difficult for a white
man to find a spot in Papua where an
English-speaking native cannot be found.
And this means decent English, not the
ghastly “pidgin” which is universal m the
Mandated Territory. One is as easy to
teach the raw savage as the other.
It is to be hoped that McKenna s report
will result in the sound example of the
Papua Administration being copied by the
ordinance factory in the Mandated Terri-
tory.
«
Seven Hundred Years Old.
When the N.S.W. Farmers and Settlers
carried a resolution calling for the abolition
of trial by jury in criminal cases there were
anguished protests from leaders of the Bar.
One gentleman said it was “incredible that
any responsible body of men should com-
mit themselves to an attack on what has
been a principle of British justice for /00
vears” Which is just the kind of windy
irrelevancy that goes down with modern
juries. , , ,
Seven hundred years ago the T 2 lawful
men” were the pick of their hundred or town-
ship. and their job continued to be dis-
tinguished for centuries after trial by ordeal
went and “petty juries” arrived. During
all those years criminals were uneducated
and unorganised, and counsel were ruled by
the Judges in court as firmly as the Judges
were ruled by their Sovereign. This is an
age of universal education and its out-
come. disciplined and organised crime. It
is an insignificant gangster indeed who can t
command good legal advice when in
trouble, and whose organisation will not
no longer afford to let these formidable
competitors have our finest strains of sheep;
and the same is true of flockmasters in
French North Africa and Russia. Action
for the preservation of our greatest indus-
try is overdue.
♦
A Way They Have in the Army.
“Gad”: I am an ex-regular cavalry officer
of the Imperial Army, to which I was com-
missioned from Sandhurst. I am 32, fit, and
my papers are in order. In addition to this
I had the advantage of serving in the war
with my own cavalry unit. About Sep-
tember last I got the notion that the
Defence Force might care to make use of
my services. Whatever gain was in the
matter would be theirs, for I understood
that I would be required to devote a good
portion of my spare time to them, and that
the monetary return (as a captain) would
not be more than £l6 per annum. How-
ever, I was willing. In October, 1928, I
wrote to the proper authority, and, after
some correspondence, had an interview with
the Cavalry Brigade Major who had written
to me, and a further interview with the
Brigade Commander, and as a result of all
this was directed to apply for a commis-
sion in the Citizen Defence Force, in a
cavalry unit. I applied, and then the cur-
tain fell on the first act of this comedy.
After an interval of three months, during
which I had heard nothing, I wrote again,
inquiring how things were “progressing.”
Here is the letter in reply, dated January
22, 1929:
“With reference to your letter dated Janu-
ary 14, you are advised that your applica-
tion for appointment to a commission in the
Citizen Forces is receiving attention.
“A vacancy would have to be found in a
Light Horse Regiment before an appoint-
ment could be made, and you will be com-
municated with as soon as a decision has
been reached.”
That was the end of the second act, and the
curtain did not rise on the third act until
some four months later, when the following
letter was received in reply to a further
inquiry:—
“With reference to your letter dated April
28, vou are advised that arrangements are
in hand to fill the appointment of StafbCap-
tain, —th Cavalry Brigade, with a Citizen
Force Officer who has had experience on the
staff of a Cavalry Brigade.
“It is regretted, therefore, appli-
cation cannot be given effect to.”
To this I replied that I had never applied
for any position on the staff. What I had
applied for was a commisison in the Defence
Force, and I would be glad to know how
that matter was progressing.
That letter of mine was dated May 2.
To it I received the following reply, dated
June 7: —
“The only vacancy that has existed since
the date of your application has been an
appointment on the Citizen Force Staff of
the —th Cavalry Brigade Headquarters.
“No other vacancies exist in the Light
Horse units within the Metropolitan Area,
and in view of certain changes which are
pending it is regretted that a vacancy can-
not, be found for you at present.”
The point about this correspondence is,
of course, that it took the authorities eight
attempt by bribery or threats to induce at
least one of the trial jurors to stage a dis-
agreement.
Jurors are no longer the pick of the
community, culturally. In all the States
there are enormous and ever-growing ex-
emption lists. A result is that even where
jurors are incorruptible and sufficiently
courageous to defy the threats of “basher”
specialists, they are liable to be bamboozled
by defence methods which are designed to
defeat the ends of justice, and which neither
the Bench nor the Bar Council has the
power to control.
Over 40 years ago the British Judicature
Act made trial by Judge the normal mode
of ti’ial in civil cases and wiped out juries
altogether in Chancery and Admiralty. It
is now obviously desirable that the same
principle should be applied in reforming the
criminal jurisdiction. The fact that the
criminal-jury system is seven centuries old
is just what is wrong with it.
#
Raising up Dangerous Competitors.
The N.S.W. Farmers and Settlers have
adopted a resolution asking the Common-
wealth Government to prohibit the export
of merino sheep, or to let a referendum of
sheepmen decide the question. As one
delegate to their conference put it, the
interests, of a few breeders should not be
allowed to override those of 80.000 wool-
growers and the whole nation.
One obvious cause of the drop in Aus-
tralian wool receipts is South African com-
petition. Australians, with no thought for
the future, have built up the South African
wool industry until the output is one-third
of the Australian production and growing
rapidly, while the quality in some special
lines is as good or better. And the South
African grower is in a position to undersell
his Australian rival because of his relatively
light labor costs.
Another cloud on the horizon of the
Australian woolgrower is the increasing
vogue of artificial silk, which has replaced
wool for some uses, and with its continued
improvement threatens to oust it .from
others. Without competition from South
Africa in superfine merinos, the Austra-
lians who once held a monopoly in this
class of wool might have been content to
see the artificial silk menace do its worst,
since a good market for their specialty
would always be assured. Nearly half of
that market is gone, and Australian stud-
masters are to blame, since the South
Africans could have done nothing without
their short-sighted assistance.
Figures published in the “Sftatesman’s
Year-Book” show that there were 31,696,000
sheen in South Africa in 1922 and 40,109,000
in 1927; that production soared from
140,052,0001 b. in 1922 to 260,334,0001 b. in
1927; and that the wool exported in 1927
was valued at £17.117,000 as compared with
£11,000,000 in 1922 and £8,236,000 in 1921.
It is a striking expansion, but it would not
have been possible if we had applied to our
friends the Afrikanders the policy which—
with a proper regard for their own interests
—they applied to us in other years in the
case of Angora goats and ostriches. We can
months to discover that the only vacancj
for which I was, apparently, suitable should
really be filled by someone else.
Such expedition has the War Office m
Whitehall beaten to a frazzle.
Is the Tied-house System Evil?
“Fitz william” : There is hardly a country
hotel in N. S. Wales not tied up to one
of the big breweries, which as a rule owns
not only the freehold and furniture, but
every drop of liquor that goes into the
house, and holds a comprehensive bill of
sale as well. In addition, the brewery takes
a transfer, in blank, of the license, so that
it can, and frequently does, substitute its
own nominee for the licensee at any time.
Then by a system of short leases and con-
stantly increasing premiums and rents, the
brewery makes certain of collecting all the
legitimate profits of the hotel. Ihe only
recourses open to the licensee who wants
to make more than a mere living wage are
(a) to increase the price of drinks, (b) to
decrease the nobbier, (c) to tamper with the
liquor and (d) to break the law by illegal
trading. Generally he does all four.
There was a time when there were “free"
houses all over N. S. Wales, in many cases
owned by the licensee, who had been for
years in the one house and had a reputation
and a business to keep up. Now almost
invariably the licensee is a mere bird of
passage, who knows that he can’t last more
than a year or two, and is only concerned
to make as much as he can while the going
is good. Naturally he concentrates on the
bar-trade as the most profitable, and the
house-trade suffers. That is the reason why.
in almost every country town, the casual
traveller who wants a meal goes to the
local “Dago” instead of a hotel. He gets
his meal at from half to two-thirds the
price the hotel charges, and, what is more,
he can get it at any hour of the day or
night, while the hotel won’t serve so much
as a cup of tea outside the regular meal
hours.
The manner in which reduction of licenses
has been worked has tended to increase the
evil. The Licenses Reduction Board seems
to have devoted particular attention to
small towns with not more than two or
three pubs. In many cases these have been
reduced to one. The net quantity of drink
consumed has actually increased, as no time
is lost going from pub to pub. This is
all to the good for the brewery, of course,
and for the publican to a certain extent.
However, his extra profit is grabbed by the
brewery as soon as the existing lease falls
in; and, in addition, he finds himself ordered
by the board to increase his accommodation,
for which purpose he—if by chance he is
the owner of the premises—has to borrow
from the brewery. The net result of the
“reform” is, instead of two or three small
pubs, each run with one eye on the local
sergeant and the other on its rivals, we
have one big establishment owned by the
brewery, and, as it has a monopoly and
is under heavy expense, it charges what it
pleases, and provides as little as it can
for the money. And the local consumption
of liquor has actually increased.


mwwmmimmmww^mw
:
:. •:... 5 |
Ipli
,
: : :: : v
i SI
X< : X<<W
x» ax
H
9M
U gfl
7 ' '
-< fA
\ mm
*
& ' ' 's i
, __. ' s '£
' ' /■ , '
g&g :>s
--v" |
-- '|^|4v -/->^-/ 4
.. • .- •>■’
SPIRIT
5816
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Bruce - Page
Ministry began a pro-
secution of coal-boss
Brown without any
visible necessity and
then dropped it with-
out any visible neces-
sity. It thereby gave
its opponents a text
for unlimited dis-
course, and when the
wealthy Theodore be-
gan to shout how the
rich are favored as
against the poor In-
had the sort of long-
distance topic which
is understood by the
multitude, especially
the coaly multitude.
Hughes, of the
£25,000, took up the
parable, and a Sydney
paper which has just
gobbled up its rival
and the rival’s pups
cheered him on. Mean-
while the business of
the nation has been hung up for another week.
One reason why Hughes has no fol-
lowing in the House of Reps, is that lie
won’t stand up to Bruce at party meetings.
On the opening day of Parliament he was
missing from the Nationalist caucus, and he
was absent from the meeting of Government
supporters to which the Arbitration Aboli-
tion measure was explained. His excuse was
that he was feeling off color. But he was
in his place in the House when the division
bells stopped ringing, and he wasn’t too
sick to snipe at the Government on Theo-
dore’s censure motion.
The removal of Federal civil servants to
Canberra is to be suspended for a year or
more as a matter of hard economy. So there
will be half a metropolis there and half in
Melbourne, except the bits that are scat-
tered round. ’Berra is half-built. Its early
morning train takes half an hour to cover
the five miles from Queanbeyan, and then
it leaves its passengers half a mile from any-
where in particular. And people still have
half a hope of getting their line to Yass
a 3 an alternative means of escape.
Justice Piddington’s last appearance be-
fore himself in defence of his N.S.W. rural
basic wage failed. When “Piddo” was a
lonesome autocrat he fixed rural wages, hours
and conditions -without hearing argument or
evidence. Application for an inquiry into
the question aroused his opposition on the
plea that the Cabinet had decided to abolish
the rural basic wage altogether. This
announcement, made in the Premier’s
absence, may not prove authentic; if it is
authentic the matter may liaug fire indefi-
nitely in the Assembly through sluggishness
and stonewalling. By a two-to-one majority
the Court dismissed “Piddo’s” case without
costs.
To S. Aus. Liberals Bardolph v. Whit-
ford has become as amusing as Bardell v.
Pickwick. Bardolph won the Labor selection
ballot for a snug Leg. Council seat, but Whit-
ford, backed by the A.W.U., has beaten him
in the constituency by nearly 2 to 1. Dur-
ing the campaign all sorts of charges were
hurled at one another by the rival factions,
and the trouble has extended to the Assembly
electorates, the plebiscites for which are
being upset at a brisk rate. The glad news
of this Labor hullabaloo hastened the recov-
ery of Premier Butler, who has been down
with ’flu in Sydney.
There is little difference between the Men-
tal Defectives Bill just introduced by Vic.
Chief Sec. Argyle and the measure he sub-
mitted three years ago when he was in the
Allan-Peacock team. Supervision by a board
of seven is provided for, and safeguards are
set up to prevent the detention of any per-
son who is mentally sound. It will be part
of the board’s business to establish machinery
for the education and training in useful occu-
pations of the higher-grade deficients.
The political map of Westralia having
been redrawn, there is a cry for a leader to
put some fire into the anti-Labor forces. The
Nats, won’t have Thomson, the Country-party
chief, and the Cockics have no use for Jimmy
Mitchell. The Agrarians descended on Perth
last week for their annual conference. The
upshot will probably be a working arrange-
ment for the March election, with two
THE RIGHT OIL—ELBOW GREASE.
“Queensland must work itself into prosperity, instead of borrowing- and hoping that something will turn up.”
PEWMIWE MOOEW: Here now, Mr. Micawber, you’ll never improve your position by sitting down with promissory-notes in your
pocket and waiting for better times.”
leaders and two not violently contradictory
programmes, the Premiership to go to the
stronger group if Labor is licked.
Bruce and Page expect a majority of six
in the Reps, on the bill to abolish Federal
Arbitration. Hughes will vote against it.
Mann and Stewart ?re also counted among
the non-contents, although Stewart has made
many speeches against Federal Arbitration
Courts. Others are wobbling, and Collins,
of Wakefield (S.A.), may not vote.
According to the Vic. Premier the Eildon
weir, about which there has been some stir,
was estimated to cost £750,000 and take
three years to build. Under the day-labor
system it cost £1,500,000 (borrowed, of
course), and took ten years. Now the en-
trails have dropped out of it, and a repair
bill of £300,000 is foreshadowed. Some people
fear that the partially disembowelled asset
may not live to be repaired, but meanwhile
day-labor is on the job again. A dinner-bell
will ring in time (D.V.) to warn settlers
in case of collapse.
With 300 or 400 Labor-unionists at work
on the Eildon weir, Mackrell, the Cocky
member for the district, does not feel com-
fortable. Segregation of the Government-
employee vote would have Mackrell’s warm
support.
The municipal councillors of Glebe (Syd-
ney) have decided to ask learned counsel if
they have power to prevent timber-workers
using Glebe streets as a means of getting to
and from their employment, to the annoyance
of bashers and others. The workers are
under police protection, and the presence of
the police is considered by Red Aldermen as
great a nuisance as that of the workers. A
deputation which asked the “capitalistic”
Ministry to find millions for relief purposes
described Glebe and some adjacent places as
resembling a Chinese famine area, but it
didn’t mention bashing as a contributory
cause.
Some of Vic. Premier McPherson’s
chicks are coming home to roost. When
leader of the Opposition he objected to
Hogan pushing on with the Unemployment
Bill before the Address-in-Reply was dis-
posed of. Last week McPherson notified the
House that he intended to sidetrack the
Address-in-Reply for almost the whole
of a sitting so that measures relat-
ing to money-lenders, mental deficients
and proposed checks on the publication
of smutty reports might be explained. Hogan
naturally taunted him on his inconsistency.
But it is not the first time that a politician’s
ideas of procedure have changed with a
change of fortune.
For the first time since the war a Foreign
Minister and a Chancellor of the Exchequer
from Britain have gone to a conference met
to worry over German debt problems, and
told it not to be more ridiculous that it can
help. The proposals were that Germany
should be given another reduction of its
liability and relieved of the cost of the
occupying army; that France, which doesn’t
want to withdraw its troops, should be con-
soled with more compensation from the
diminished German payments; that Britain
should give Italy another 30 millions dis-
count ; and that the U.S.A. should make no
discounts and no sacrifices. In fact, the
scheme seemed to boil down to a matter of
Uncle receiving two-thirds of the German
payments for 36 years, and all of them for
22 years. The British Ministers said that
the milch cow had turned at last, and that
it was a long cow which had no turning.
Nobody ever expected Philip Snowden to
add to the gaiety of nations, but his diplo-
matic debut at The Hague must have coaxed
chuckles from almost every chancellery of
Europe. If he had said what he did say in
the “language of diplomacy” there would
have been no uproar, but he said exactly
what he meant and so incensed the French,
whose tempers are always most peppery
when their cause is weakest, that there was
talk of sending seconds to demand an
apology. Seconds to a fragile eight-stone
man who drags a crippled leg! Snowden
avoided bloodshed by pruning a couple of
adjectives, but that’s all he did prune.
Treasurers’ speeches nowadays sound
rather like the remarks of the gentleman on
the scaffold, both being tinged with the fear
that something is about to happen. The
year 1928-29 was very nearly the best in
Australia’s history so far as wheat was con-
cerned. It was the very best for wool pro-
duction. If mineral output dropped owing
to the coal troubles it wasn’t less in value
than in 1920. In the aggregate, State and
Federal revenues haven’t fallen. There is
really nothing to explain why Page and
Stevens and Butler should expect to be
hanged, and should devote themselves so
much to explaining that the case against
them isn’t so bad as it looks, save that the
loan jag has passed its climax, as it was
bound to do one day or another.
The frontier scuffling between Russia and
China may afford the League of Nations a
chance to interfere. China is a member or
the Brotherhood and Russia isn’t; still,
there is ample authority for interposition be-
tween a member and an outsider, as well
as between members. But the parties an-
huge and not very intelligible; the scene of
operations is huge also; the European com-
batant is an unmitigated liar, who expresses
contempt for the League and for civilisation
in general, and the Asiatic one’s Administra-
tion has a tendency to wander all over the
shop. The League can outlaw the offending
party, or both parties, but this would be akin
to the case of any old rebel Scottish baron
who was “put to the horn” at the cross of
Edinburgh. The poor old horn often got
worn out blowing at a tough baron through
many years, with no result.
When N.S.W. and S.A. competition
brought the price of flour down at Broken
Hill consumers did not benefit: the master
bakers pocketed the lot. Their employees
demanded another 10s. a week for them-
selves, and with the market not so advan-
tageous the masters are resisting, but resist-
ance is hopeless. How hopeless is shown by
the action of the Meat Industry Employees,
who “induced” the bosses to give an under-
taking not to import the cheaper chilled
meat. One butcher standing out, his shop-
hands were withdrawn and the slaughter-
men refused to kill for him. Mine wages
rise with the cost of living, so the mines
have to bsar the brunt of all these selfish
manoeuvres.
In 1904-05 N.S.W.’s
State tax-revenue was
£1,104,408, its “per-
manent and repro-
ductive works” were
priced at £82,321,998,
and it spent £1.571,257
loan money in addi-
tion. In 1927-2 S taxa-
tion amounted to
£10,725, 2 5 7, the
“works” figured at
£2 5 8, 47 4, 89 8 and
£14,407,619 was spent
from loans. These
figures have nothing
to do with war ex-
penses. Since the war
the Ma State, which
doesn’t! differ much
from its neighbors,
has received, and pro-
fessedly invested in
profitable “develop-
ment,” about 111 mil-
lions. In 1928 it had
to drag from the people
about £6,600,000 more
in taxes and to raise
£10,300,000 more in
loans than in 1919. It
may be said that
the loan investments,
instead of earning the
necessary 5* per cent,
interest on the money
they cost, lost about
10 per cent. w r hen
allowance is made for
the extra taxes
required to keep the
bubble inflated.
Because Victoria
put the biggest amount
of loan money into
closer settlement and packed its settlers too
close for want of space it shows the biggest
loss on the business. Eight millions are
mentioned. Premier McPherson, speaking
at a lunch, said that Parliament intended
to pay this off, and the Government would
stand or fall by the result. It was a
noble statement, and it is a pity that Hogan
and Co. don’t leave off talking and let the
good work start. It is a time wdien Mac’s
worst enemies should rally round him and
keep him to his word.
Melbourne Hospital has to stand all, or
nearly all, the cost of repairing motor casual-
ties, and the administration is rebelling. As
many as a dozen cases are received in a
day, and some of the patients are guests
for weeks. One proposal is to tax all motor-
ists through their license fees, but it is
naturally objected that this would penalise
careful drivers, who outnumber the fools. If
patients or persons responsible for accidents
were obliged to pay when they are able to
do so it would help. Numbers of people
in comfortable circumstances evade payment
of hospital dues as a matter of course.
THE MAN WHO WAS WANTED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A votre sante, Philip Snowden, and ’tis little
that I care
If you’re generally labelled socialistic
doctrinaire,
For you’ve straightened up the nations
wlio’ve exploited to the full
Their capacity for bluffing easy-going,
generous Bull.
Winston was a showier figure, and I doubt
that you’re the man
To enunciate the burning words the Cambrian
Wizai-d can
On the methods used for keeping poor old
Britain from her due.
None was game to put his foot down, though,
until it came to you.
Though you hurt a Frenchman’s feelings and
made other envoys sore
By some franker observations than they’ve
ever heard before;
Though you moved a Paris journal to remark
u Mon dieu, the cad !”
There’s an Empire solid with you, and it
says “Bravo, my lad!”
Give-and-take’s essential, there is unanimity
complete,
Whensoe’er disputing parties, be they men
or nations, meet.
But our Continental cobbers in the fixed con-
viction live
They should always do the take and careless
Britain do the give.
Then here’s to you,
Philip Snowden!
You’re the sort of
man we need,
Irrespective of your
party and regard-
less of your creed.
Wakened by your
wholesome candor,
our Allies may take
a pull
Ere they try fresh
points to work on
generous, easy-going
Bull.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Oxmead": Perth has been looking up old
plans on the occasion of its 100th birthday
to find out when its streets were named and
why, though in some cases there is little to
go on except conjecture. The principal busi-
ness thoroughfare, Hay-street, is alleged to
have been christened after a man who was
permanent Under-Secretary for the Colonies
in the thirties of last Century, but who left
no particular mark anywhere else. William-
street, another central highway, was origi-
nally King William-street, but while Adelaide
HIS MISTAKE.
“It’s no use complaining about expense. I must have clothes to wear!”
“That’s good-o. I thought you were training yourself out of them.”
stuck to the prefix Perth dropped it. Some
names that would have been self-explanatory
have been discarded because of their unplea-
sant associations. Museum-street, for in-
stance, fronting the city’s fine Art Gallery
and splendid library, was originally Limbo-
street; here an early-day gaol stood, and the
curious may see the exact spot where nnir-
derers were jerked into eternity. It is a curi-
ous reflection that the place where the gal-
lows stood should now be dedicated to learn-
ing and the fine arts.
* * > :i: *
“Light Horse”: Tom Smith, a boundary-
rider out Hughenden (Q.) way, was a
Fifth Light Horse reinforcement in 1916,
and when, on arrival in Egypt, he was
drafted into a camel battalion his disgust
was that of a man brought up among horses
from boyhood. But after a couple of years
it not only wore off but he became an adept
at handling his new charges. 111 the Jordan
Valley in 1918, Tom got a bad attack of
malaria and was sent to the base hospital
in Cairo. He had never seen the inside of
a hospital before, and was at first sorely
embarrassed by having nurses attending to
him. “Can’t I have a man to look after
me, Doctor?” he asked. “Don’t be silly."
said the quack; “you’ll soon get used to
them.” “Oh, well. I suppose I will,” said
Tom resignedly; “I got used to the camels!”
* * * *
“Mr. Cato” : Bill had never been far from
the township until his fortieth birthday,
when he screwed up his courage for a trip
to Sydney. In the year of the big flood he
had saved several cases of goods belonging
to tin' store from being swept down the
creek and a grateful merchant had pre-
sented him with a grey ready-made tweed
suit. Bill seemed pleased, but was never
known to wear the clothes. Everyone expected
that he would climb into them for the
Sydney trip, but he boarded the coach in
togs that were the last word in shabbiness.
Asked why he was leaving the new suit
at home, Bill became informative. “I want
to have a quiet look round Sydney,” he said.
“Nice chance I’d have of doin’ that if I
wore them flash duds, and had them sassiety
girls chasin’ me!”
* * * *
“C.Q.”: It is not only the farmer’s crops
that have been frostbitten this exceptionally
cold winter in Victoria. The effect on the
collection-plates in Melbourne churches is
reported by many clergymen to be terrible.
It takes a lot to get the average citizen
out of bed on a Sunday morning at the
best of times, and bitterly cold and rainy
Sabbaths have been the rule this year.
Unlike the cinemas, the churches are unable
to advertise that they are “warmer than
your own home.” As a means of getting
round the difficulty, many Anglican churches
have adopted the envelope system. Thirteen
envelopes are sent to each parishioner every
quarter in the pious hope that they will be
returned week by week with something inside
them.
* * * *
“Questo” : Touching excuses for failing to
vote, a lone islander off the north-east coast
of Cape York Peninsula advanced one which
the Queensland electoral department had no
hesitation in accepting. “I am situated on
Hicks Island,” he wrote, “and have no
means of communication. I have only seen
or spoken to one white man in five months.”
Hicks Island, by the way, is the site of those
old stone fortresses which some authorities
say are natural rock formations and others
chiim as relics of an ancient civilisation,
like that of Easter Island.
* # * *
“P.X.”: George Alston’s Centralian nig-
gers are by no means the first that have been
brought down to see what civilisation is like
(B. 14/8/’29). In the Hills at the back
of Adelaide a while ago I came on two well-
dressed young lubras having a joyous time
in the bush. Later I met their guardian, Dr.
Basedow, probably Australia’s highest autho-
rity on Black Brother. A good many years
ago he and his wife had brought the two
girls to Adelaide, had trained them for
domestic service, and all the clothes they
were wearing they had made themselves—
and quite as good as any other young
woman’s frock they seemed. Always it has
been open to them to go back home ; but they
don’t want it. Yet they do want their run-
about in the bush ; and, apart from these
mere fugitive excursions, the Basedows take
them out into a regular camp for a fortnight
or so a year, and let them run as nearly
wild as their protectors’ regard for then-
good will allow.
* * * *
“Te Pana”: The report of Byrd’s party
that the broadcast of a Maori festival
reached Antarctic listehers-in “more clearly
than any programme for some time”
affords further proof, if any were needed,
of the clarity and carrying power of
the Maori language. I have heard
Maoris conversing over distances of more
than a quarter of a mile without their
voices being raised a note higher than in
ordinary speech. This vocal quality, how-
ever, is more noticeable in men than women;
a Maori wahine is shrill and strident even
in her calm moments. European students
of the language soon find that their voices
carry further in the na,tive tongue than in
their own. No satisfactory explanation has
yet been given, unless it is the frequency
of vowels.
AS BAD AS THAT.
“Trust me, fair maid, I shall never seek to see Gwendoline again.”
“Did her father drive you away?”
“No—it was the ambulance man!”
“Exdig” : During the war a kind of dis-
pensation was granted to Jewish soldiers.
Seeing that the breakfast bacon was an in-
tegral portion of the day’s ration, which was
not plentiful, Jews were told that, as a
matter of supremo urgency, they might eat
the flesh of the forbidden animal; and most
of the Yiddishers did eat it. But one of my
battalion who sternly declined the hateful
food was a Hielan’man. lie was so raw that
he could speak only a little English, but some-
how he had learned in his northern fastness
that the Australian forces were receiving the
highest pay, and he had cannily worked his
passage out to enlist. He was a good soldier,
too, although when we hopped over he made
remarks which sounded, as a cobber of mine
said, “like a whole corroboree in one sen-
tence.”
* * * *
“Isharagi”: A peculiarity in construction
distinguishes a few ships visiting Sydney
Harbor, though it is doubtful if a landsman
would notice it. The foremast is placed
slightly to starboard and the aftermast to
port of the centre of the ship, making a
straight line with the funnel or funnels, but
at an angle to the centre line of the ship.
This is a product of wartime shipbuilding
in Britain and a precaution
against submarine attack. The
sub. sighting from a distance
would get masts and funnel in
line to determine the course of
the vessel, said course, it goes
without saying, not being the
true one. But the sub. would
not wake up to this until too
late. The device was tried on
oil-tankers and other stern-
funnelled steamers.
# * *
“M^phisto”: A well-dressed
young woman, hardly out of her
teens, recently went into a Bris-
bane jeweller’s shop and asked
to be shown some diamond rings.
After a careful examination of
several trays, she decided not to
buy. Two days later she re-
turned and made a second
lengthy scrutiny of one of the
trays before announcing that
she couldn’t find the class of
ring she wanted. She has not
been seen since, but the jeweller
is deploring the loss of one of
his most valuable rings. In its
place was a brummagem article
worth about a shilling, but
almost identical at first glance. The girl
must have been at some pains to find a fake
ring similar to the one she stole.
& * * *
“Runa” : A youthful accountant, walking-
home about midnight, heard shrieks for help.
Dashing towards the screams, he found a
young woman in scanty attire hanging on
to a gate-post in a suburban street, while
a man was trying to wrench her away.
The youth promptly fell on the assailant,
and the brisk scrap that ensued soon brought
the neighbors to the scene. Some were con-
tent to stand by and see fair play; others,
encouraged by the still-screaming woman,
rang for the police. When the Law arrived
it found a badly-battered accountant wiping
the blood from his face, while an indignant
husband explained that his wife had, during
an attack of hysterics, rushed into the street,
whence he was inducing her to return inside
when the stranger dashed up and dealt him
a mighty blow. The matter was settled by-
apologies on the part of the chivalrous one,
w r ho not only ruined a good suit but was
unable to sit for his accountancy examina-
tion next day, owing to impaired vision and
other damages. But what stung niost
of all was the assurance of a neighbor that
the lady always had hysterics when thwarted
by her husband, and that the cause ot that
particular outburst was an argument over a
new liat! * * *
” . / T >
Gad : The Lion of VV aterloo (a.
7/8/’29) is still there. At least it was when
I rode over the battlefield in Decembei, lJh.
There was no particular reason why the
Germans should have removed it; it stands
out challenging France. It is, however, a
British lion and not a Belgian one. The
British part in the scrap has not been
entirely ignored. There is a museum on the
field, and they have a button there from
the uniform of an officer in the Inniskilling
Dragoons. There was, however, some talk
of removing the lion after the war as a com-
pliment to French feeling.
“Oxonian”: Let me assure “La Haye
Sainte” (B. 7/8/’2D) that there is at least
one modest monument on the spot to the
British share in Waterloo. Inside the ruined
chapel at Hougoumont is a tablet with an
inscription reminding all who enter that
within these walls many of the gallant de-
fenders of Hougoumont Farm passed to their
rest. The tablet was erected by the Guards
Brigade not long before the Great War.
Fritz didn’t pull it down ; instead, lie added
another monument commemorating his own
share in the business.
* * * $
“Uramao” : When Maoriland was dipping
into its pocket for contributions to succor
the victims of the West Coast earthquake,
Prime Minister Joe Ward took the precau-
tion of insisting on a central committee to
control the funds in Wellington. It was a
judicious move, but it didn’t prevent one
engaging example of philanthropy. An
organisation that ran a jazz party presented
a balance-sheet which showed that the pro-
ceeds amounted to £125 14 s. 2d., and that
expenditure included 17 musicians at £1 10s.,
£l3 for lost coats and hats, £lO 10s. for the
organiser and £5 for cloakroom attendants.
These items and others left £4O 3s. 2d. for
the ’quake sufferers.
*. * * *
“Padraic”: A dentist attached to the Far
West (N.S.W.) Mission health scheme
declares that when inspecting schoolchild-
ren's masticating apparatus he can pick out
those who have been brought up along the
Darling. His theory is that Darling water
gives to those who use it constantly the
best molars in Australia. Since hearing
this I have taken the trouble to notice the
grinders of Darling-river kiddies, and their
general excellence makes me think that
Forceps is right.
“Imogen”: I saw a moon-faced school-
girl show herself more than a match
for a peevish tram-conductor the other
day. Two lasses in conventional tunics
and badged hats climbed into the car
without pausing in their chatter, and
one of the pair handed the conductor a
theatre-seat butt instead of a student’s'pass.
It was an innocent, enough error but it was
evidently Trammie’s bad day, and he rated
the girl with unnecessary roughness. She
wept, whereupon her companion called him
a rude man and was told off in turn.
Immediately afterwards the guard noticed
the second maiden, with eyes pointedly fixed
on his uniform, putting figures down in the
back of a school book. “Just taking your
number,” she said sweetly in response to his
angry inquiry; “my father’s a member of
Parliament!” Later I saw a chastened con-
ductor speaking softly to Miss Indignation,
but she gave him only the shrugged shoulder
and the stuck-out chin. The two left the car
when I did. followed by the pathetic eyes of
a desolated tramway employee. “O-oooh,
Marge,” gasped the girl who had wept, “how
could you?” The other giggled delightedly.
“Fancy poor old Pop saying boo to a goose,
much less a trammie!” she gurgled.
THE BOGEY MAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The police are satisfied that half of the recently
reported hold-ups in Melbourne are bogus, stories
of encounters with bandits being concocted by persons
who have lost their money at the races or in
gaming dens.’’— Age.
The bandit crouches in shadows dim
To watch and wait for his nightly prey
With a wad of notes to come to him
(Or so the dailies’ reports convey).
Stealthy and truculent, gruff and grim,
He’ll scare and spoil and, if needs be, slay.
But the Johu Hop winks with a knowing
laugh
As he mutters the Cockney gag “Not arf!
Beneath the laurels that line the lane
Secure in ambush the footpad stands
Till the homing cit. hears, hoarse but plain,
The stern injunction “Put up yer hands!”
And, without a weapon, perforce is fain
To give prompt heed to the thug’s
commands.
So the sergeant gathers, but doubts assail,
And “That be hanged,” lie growls, “for a
tale!”
For the homing citizen —who can tell?—
May have done the whole of his good
brass in
Where the gee-gees streak and the bookies
yell,
Where the dice are thrown or the pennies
spin;
And the hold-up yarn hath a fish-like smell,
It groweth hackneyed and weareth thin.
It may do for his trusting wife, of course,
But, faith, they take it with salt, “The
Force”!
There’s a gun maybe in his murd’rous gripe,
You think, as into the shrubs you stare.
If fight you show will you take a swipe
From a sandbag swishing through mid-
night air,
Or stop a section of leaden pipe?
Nay, heart up, brother, he isn’t there!
The Demons grin as his deeds they scan,
And count him mostly a Bogey Man.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Rob P.”: Fred, the station’s mechanic,
rather fancied himself as an amateur cabinet-
maker, and having a spare afternoon was
building a small table to augment the com-
fort of his sparsely-furnished quarters. The
noise of his labors interrupted the boss’s
wife’s siesta, and she instructed Jacky to
investigate. Jacky eyed Fred’s half-finished
effort for several minutes without mention-
ing his mission and then padded back to the
irritated lady. “That pfella Fred bin do it bit
of carpentry,” he informed her. “Oh ! indeed,”
snapped < the missus; “what sort of
carpentry?” Jacky waved a disparaging
hand. “Flurry rough, missus, plurry rough!”
* * it *
“Lao-dah”: One of the quaintest items
Melbourne Herald has dug out of its files
of 50 years ago relates to the wonders of
electric light and the horrors of traffic con-
gestion in those far-off days. “In conse-
quence of: the anticipated rush of vehicles
through Jolimont to-night on the occasion of
the display of electric light at the Melbourne
Gricket Ground,” says the extract, “the
police have determined to stop all traffic
through the suburb during the early part of
the evening, so as to prevent accidents.” The
thought of our rude forefathers creating a :
traffic problem in their eagerness to see a
few lamps lighted up is distinctly intriguing. ]
To-day Jolimont is one of the most bril- 1
liantly-lighted suburbs of the city-, and from 1
»
OUT OF THE FRYING-PAN
MARMADUKE: “When I die, dear, I’ll
leave everything to you.”
MAMIE: “And where do you think I’ll get the money to settle up?”
it Melbourne, with its Oriental cinemas fes-
tooned in colored lights, its winking-sky
signs and its normal street illumination,
looks as if dressed for a perpetual world’s
fair.
* it if if
“Misirna”: Hobart can beat the case of the
Adelaide woman charged in the police court
and defended by a woman lawyer (B.
24/7/’29). A woman here was charged with
shop-lifting by a woman shop-walker, arrested
by a policewoman and successfully defended
by a woman barrister. And that didn’t end
it either. After her acquittal she drove off
i n a Lizzie !
4= if * *
“P.M.”: A former chief cook on a Com-
monwealth liner, now one of Commissioner
Clapp’s refreshment-room managers, tells the
following story of the days of the submarine
scare. The vessel was traversing the Medi-
terranean when there was a terrific bang
amidships. All hands rushed on deck to
scramble into lifebelts, and boat stations were
being manned, when the chief officer, passing
the bakehouse door, noticed the cook picking
up bits of broken bottles. “Get your lifebelt
and get on deck, man!” roared the chief.
“Didn’t you hear the hit?” “Hit be
j snorted Flourbags. “It’s only the yeast
for to-morrow’s bread gone west!”
* * it *
“X.D.”: The theft of a house (not a
wooden one, either) occupied a Melbourne
court recently. The dwelling stood in 10i
acres in one of the outer suburbs; it was
purchased as a speculation by a N. S. Wales
grazier about two years ago. When he
visited the place in June of this year he
rubbed his eyes in amazement at the
shrunken dimensions of liis villa. Sub-
sequently a neighbor was found to be in
possession of a nice new path, a bricked-in
copper and sufficient of other building
materials to warrant his being charged with
the theft of 850 different articles.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: Touching the divorce obtained
at Reno by Charles Lloyd Jones and the old
case of Earl Russell, who, re-marrying in
England after a similar knot-cutting, received
a sentence for bigamy (B. 7/8/’29). There
is a modern instance nearer home which has
had no such painful consequences. A Mel-
bourne citizen whose wife refused to give
him the freedom he wanted went to America
and secured it, and married there the lady
of his choice. Children have been born, but
before the event the lady journeys to America,
where they arrive in the world as American
citizens, and, everything being right accord-
ing to U.S. law, not a word can be said
affecting their legitimacy. Meanwhile in
Australia wife No. 1 still draws alimony, and
is regarded as a woman merely separated
from her husband.
s»s $ ss:
“Verri”: Even had the band of gypsies
rejected by Australia been permitted to
land in Maoriland they would not have lasted
there for long. About 20 years ago a
number of Romany folk arrived in M.L.,
and began making a living in various ways,
the feminine portion by fortune-telling. The
European population regarded the invaders
tolerantly enough, but the Maoris looked
upon them with extreme disfavor. Clashes
between the two brown-skinned races became
frequent, and finally the Government inti-
mated to th,' gypsies that they had better
move on. The feud that developed between
the two races was rather surprising in view
of the fact that Ilenare gets on with the
Hindu passably well.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Drivers on the little railway
that runs from Melbourne to St. Ivilda have
been startled frequently of late on turning
a sharp bend by coming suddenly on lengths
of packing-case timber spread across the
rails. Sometimes they have pulled up in
time and sometimes they have barged
through them. After the phenomenon had
delayed trains again and again for weeks, a
watch was kept and the mystery solved.
Some small boys had been in the habit of
getting the wood from a neighboring fac-
tory and they used this cheap and efficient
method of having it chopped into handy-
lengths for the family fireplace.
* * Si! !j!
“Nakhoda”: The latest scientific theory
to be questioned is Sir Jagadis Bose’s famous
assertion that plants have hearts and a sys-
tem of arteries precisely the same in kind as
human beings. By means of delicate elec-
trical apparatus he was able to measure the
heart-beats of onions and artichokes, and,
moreover, was able to show that, given
alcohol, dahlias would go on a bend, given
an opiate would fall asleep, and would even
die if poisoned. Until recently nobody was
in a position-to say that Bose’s theory could
be disproved, but now an American, Dr. G.
A. Persson, has perfected apparatus as subtle
as the Indian professor’s. At first he got
similar reactions, but as he steadily refined
his observations, the phenomena tended to
disappear. Finally he came to the conclu-
sion that, being by religion a believer in the
universal soul, Bose had allowed his re-
searches to be colored by prejudices not
shared by all botanists. If true, Persson’s
finding should be a great relief to Bose’s
compatriots. Already deprived of meat by
the Scriptural injunction not to eat any-
thing with life, they were in danger of being
deprived of their vegetables as well.
“Oran”: Though the habit of praying in
time of earthquake may be on the wane in
Maoriland (B. 14/8/’29), there is at
least one case on record when all hands went
down on their knees and sent up supplica-
tions to Heaven. When Tarawera devastated
the Rotorua area, and there was no visible
dawn the following day, som« of the refugees
from the volcanic territory walked along the
Ngongotaha-road towards the coast, and on
the way turned into a Maori kainga, where
the Maoris, who were Christians, had erected
an altar and were gathered round it in
prayer. As each arrival came in he joined
the kneeling throng, and as in the gloom it
was impossible to tell whether the end of
the world was imminent or not it seemed a
sensible way of passing the time. Towards
evening a red streak in the west marked the
close of what had been elsewhere a fine
winter day, and prayers were relaxed some-
what on the indications that there was actu-
ally going to be a to-morrow.
FAIR WARNING.
“Now, stop it—one word more from you, Augustus, and I
am a widow.”
Bourbon” ; Queensland has long had on
its railways the second-class sleepers which
Victoria and other States lack (B. 14/8/’29).
They cost about ss. for a 200-mile journey.
The bunks run six to a corridor compart-
ment and consist of a fixed top shelf, the
ordinary carriage seat for three (the regu-
lation number in the Queensland 3ft. 6in.
corridor car) and a seat-back, which lifts up
to rest upon a pair of safety-catches. By
the grace of the conductor a pillow may
be obtained, but no nap is served out. It’s
a hard lie, but lots better than a sit-up on
the middle seat.
#
“Shep.” : I can give an even more remark-
able instance of rapid promotion from the
ranks than that of “John B.’s” mess orderly
who woke up to find himself orderly officer
(B. 14/8/’29). In his case promotion came
to a combatant, but in ours the Digger should
have been wearing a red-cross brassard at
the time of his appointment. Early in
France he’d applied for transfer to an officers’
school to qualify for “pips” on the strength
of some pre-war training. He was humping
a stretcher at Pozieres when officially noti-
fied that owing to terrific casualties a bat-
talion 0.0. requested his presence in the
front line. For him the change-over from
Digger to lieutenant merely meant tearing
off his field-ambulance color-patches and put-
ting up his stars. The knock that ended his
front-line service came before the battalion
had a chance of seeing what he looked like
in officer’s rigout.
❖ s£ *
“Arjay” : Further to the question of who
were the first persons to engage in commer-
cial pursuits in Victoria, William Dutton
was in the whaling business before Henry
Peed (or his men) arrived in 1830 (B.
7/8/’29). Dutton, who was Sydney-born,
crossed over from the Speck in
1828, landing at Portland, where
he established a whaling and
sealing base for his employers.
He crossed the Straits several
times, finally taking up resi-
dence at Whalers’ Point (Port-
land) and becoming Victoria’s
first white settler. Buckley was
there before him, no doubt, but
a fugitive from justice who lived with
the blacks can hardly rank as a settler.
And even Dutton and party were not the
first to beach a whale in Victoria.
: i : ❖ * ❖
“S.T.S.” : Adelaide has lost its character
as a churchy city these times. It is only
just thinking of having texts prominently
displayed in tramcars, though Sydney has
shown them for years.
* * * *
“Psalter”: Broken Hill, however hard
times may be, can always find a few quid
for keeping its churches in good order and
condition. The Anglican community has
just opened a new £5OOO structure; the
Baptists are doing £l7OO worth of rebuild-
ing because of a fire in their Chappie-street
place of worship ; the Roman Catholics have
nearly completed a £3500 suburban church
to match their recently-erected school:
and the Methodies have the first £lOOO in
hand for a £3OOO chapel to replace a wood-
and-iron one. Not a bad showing for a popu-
lation of 26,000 which keeps one church to
a pub and a half.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Germany came very near to
colonising the Chatham Islands (600 miles
east of Canterbury) nearly 90 years ago.
The New Zealand Co. never bothered itself
much about the Colonial Office, and on this
occasion it entered into negotiations with the
Herr K. Sieveking Syndicate (Hamburgi
for the sale of the Cliathams for £lo,ouq.
The Imperial Government, however, got to
hear of the projected deal and after som<
shilly-shallying vetoed it. Soon after it \v ; .-
discovered that Germany might have taken
possession without asking anyone’s lea\i M
for the islands had never been formally
pegged out by any Power, which discovery
led to the running up of the Jack. A few
years later two ships, the St. Paul and the
Skjold, arrived at Nelson with German set-
tlers. Many of these, discouraged by the
struggles of the first lot of Germans in the
Moutere Valley, Nelson, went on to Aus-
tralia, but others won through and made
good Maorilanders.
“Centurion”: In cor-
recting me on the sub-
ject of regular regi-
men t s entitled to
march through the
City of London with
fixed bayonets (I».
7/8/’29), Edward Den-
man himself stands in
need of correction
when lie says that
“only the third bat-
talion of the Guards
[ the Grenadiers] en-
joys the privilege.”
There are, and have
always been since the
linked-battalion sys-
tem was set up in the
1870’s, two regular
battalions of each re-
giment of the House-
hold Brigade. The
Grenadiers (originally
the First Foot Guards i
are the senior regi-
ment of the old estab-
lishment, the Cold-
streams and the Scots
Guards following in
that order. How E.D.
arrives at his “third-
battalion” theory is
consequently a mys-
tery. The Royal Fusi-
liers inherit their
rights from the Train
Bands of London, of
which the City of Lon-
don Regiment is the
acknowledged succes-
sor, though the Buffs
—“The Dirty Half
Hundred” - also lay
claim to the honor.
The Royal Artillery
Company does not
come into the discus-
sion, since it is not a regular unit.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: In an exhibit at this year's
Royal Academy, a wireless operator was
shown tapping out an appeal for succor on
a key apparently placed the wrong way
round, and various critics duly waxed
scornful over the bloomer. As a matter
of fact, a skilled clerk can not only send
on a key from behind it, but standing on
his head, with his feet, his chin and (with
practice) even more unusual portions of his
anatomy. I remember a flustered woolbuyer
rushing into an Australian office to stop a
message that had just gone forward to
London. The operator was standing with
his back to the key leaning against the table,
and went on filling his pipe quietly after
the excited foreigner had finished. “Veil,
aren’t you going to stop it?” queried the
visitor. “I have stopped it,” said the
operator.
❖ ❖ * s»:
“Abi A.”: “Shep.” tells of an army-
doctor in France being called on to attend
a beaucoup malade madame and finding no-
thing in his haversack to meet the situation
(B. 7/8/’2D). Which suggests that the full
strength of the army medical stores, as sup-
plied in Melbourne, did not find their way
to France. At the sale of surplus stocks
after the war the varied surgical equipment
disposed of included some very up-to-date
midwifery sets.
❖ # *
“Sixenate”: There is a conflict of opinion
on one rather important point between the
N.S.W. and Vic. branches of the R.S.L.:
N. S. Wales has decided, if occasion arises,
to bury the enemy dead just as it does old
comrades, but Victoria disapproves. In a
recent interview Dr. Purdy, the new presi
dent of the N.S.W. body, said that he found
it easier to imagine the dead Diggers rising
to fraternise with their old enemies than
meeting them with bayonets in their hands
as shown in what he terms “Menin Gate
by Spotlight.” Purdy’s views, though likely
to offend some, are nearer the sentiments
of the Digger who was really in the line
than those usually put forward. It was an
axiom in France that the further you got
from the line the stronger was the hate-
your-enemy spirit; it had its full bloom
among people who determinedly stayed at
home.
* # * jjf
“Dungaree B.”: Veteran Hall, the dilapi-
dated structure at Prospect (N.S.W.), once
the beautiful home of explorer Lawson, has
ceased to be a shelter for opossums, swagmen
and ghosts, having been given over to the
demolishers. The only historical relic found
amongst the ruins was an old sword. The hall,
which had 26 rooms, was built by convicts
120 years ago on the place from which Law-
son. Blaxland and Wentworth first sighted
the Blue Mountains. Lawson’s grave is not
far off in the cemetery of St. Bartholomew's.
* -4c , * *
“Strict Veg.”: The Melbourne Dickens
Fellowship was deeply stirred over the
report that among the 100 books selected
for the delectation of the Discovery’s crew
during the long Antarctic night there is
not one work by their patron saint. C. H.
Peters, their president, even went so far
as to suggest that a cablegram be sent to
London asking that this cruel wrong should
be remedied. It was pointed out that Maw-
son’s ship had already sailed; whereupon
a member insisted that there were bookshops
at the ports en route where the omission
could easily be rectified. A motion protest-
ing against the exclusion of Pickwick and
Martin Chuzzlewit was duly passed, and
there the matter stands.
FOREIGN CUSTOMS.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Some foreign scouts at the Arrowe Park Jam-
boree took sausages for colored candles and tried
to light the ends.”
The shades of night were falling thick
When Iguace lit his sausage-wick.
’Tis thus the gentle Pole employs
The scran beloved by Saxon boys.
Hot dogs, that sizzle in the pan
On Yankee stoves, the gentle Jan
Inserts within a dead marine;
And twinkling sausage-lights are seen
Casting their mellow gleams afar
In quondam regions of the Czar.
Outside, with yelps of fear and hate,
The village mongrels congregate:
Each glowing wurst behind the pane
Tells of a tyke untimely slain.
The passing butcher, in his sled,
With quickened pace averts his head.
And yet, despite the transient shame
That haunts a deed without a name,
lie knows the dogs that whine and bark
Are doomed to yield their vital spark
To light upstairs the bedward Pole,
And jeopardise his darkened soul.
Contrariwise, the Eskimo,
Who homeward battles through the snow,
Il'is labored breath a trailing wreath,
Will presently employ his teeth
On tallow-caudles of the best
Before he seeks his well-earned rest.
“Quot homines” ... .’tis ever thus.
What fortifies the likes of us.
Building our muscle and our bone,
As an illuminant is known
In other lands. And when we light
Our candles, in the Arctic night, '
Snug in his igloo—or whate’er
He calls it—in his bill of fare
The dreamy Eskimo inclines
To draw his store of vitamines
From candles, eating what we light.
Now, tell me, which of us is right?
VICTORIA.
WAWHKESH.


Y4P?P 5
xO V
S*s* SCHHAPPJ
s ,o v
*
v
o
■ ;
X
man
•■■■•
%
Si
IS
:
‘‘Well, now, that’s just what
I was thinking, myself.”
c : c:
AROMATIC SCHIEDAM
/y- :
3 '' "
“ As Good for Women as for Men.”
Wolfe’s Schnapps
is obtainable
everywhere in
Quarter, Half
and Large size
bottles.


The West
The Trousers
for
Hard Wear.
They’re “R o t li-
sted” Ready-for-
Service Trousers,"
Tailored f r o m
d
Wool Saddle Twist—and Guaranteed.
Satin Finish—Tough Wearing. Side
and Hip Pockets—Belt Loops—Hip
Straps—and Gauntlet Bottoms.
In Fawn, Light and Dark Grey, 37/6
State Size when ordering.
Rothwells Outfitting
EDWARD STREET BRISBANE
NEVER BEFORE SUCH EXCELLENT
FIELD-GLASSES AT £4 4/-
%
Never before have we been able to
offer such exceptionally good quality
field-glasses at so low a price. In-
spection would immediately convince-
you of their remarkable value their
fine luminosity—sharp, clear defi-
nition and wide field of vision.
Magnification eight times —
—sold complete with leather
carrying strap and leather
case.
You may send for a pair of
these Binoculars with every
confidence as to their quality.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
Sight-testing Opticians,
23-25 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
When you come to
SYDNEY
You will find at Usher’s every essen-
tial to the enjoyment of your visit.
Hotel service that is homelike,
cuisine of rare excel-
lence, and that
friendly hospitality
which you desire.
Telephone and run-
ning water in all
rooms. Book accom-
modation early.
Bed
and
wakfast
Tariff
desired
Special tariff or inclusive terms.
cifctietfo
T
H O
OPP. THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
’Phone 86511 (10 lines).
Cable & Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel,” Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Walter Kiugsmill, the Senate's new Presi-
dent, is 65, and has spent half his life in
Parliament —before politics claimed him he
was a S. Aus. Government geologist and a
mining registrar in Westralia. He won the
Pilbarra Assembly seat in 1897, was made
a Minister in Groperland’s first post-Federa-
tion Cabinet, and a few years later trans-
ferred himself to the Leg. Council, becoming
(’hairman of Committees in 1906 and Presi-
dent in 1919. Three years later he lost his
seat, but he was returned to the Senate be-
fore the end of the year. Kingsmill is a
pnljshed speaker, well versed in Parliamen-
tary usages, a keen sportsman (of the sort
that is never seen on a racecourse) and a
thoroughly amiable being. He is the first
Westralian member to preside over the deli-
berations of either Federal House.
Kingsmill and the luckless Paddy Lynch tied
for the party nomination for the Senate presi-
dency. Pearce could have given a casting
F. F. WARD, see. of the S. Aus. branch
of the A.L.P., prominent in the Bar-
dolph v. Whitford case, which has dis-
rupted the party.
vote, but he thought better of it, and the
Senators settled the matter by drawing names
out of a hat. Newlands, who was badly
beaten,. annoyed some of his colleagues by
suggesting a few days before the House met
that the election should be left to the Senate.
Quite proper, but he forgot that he was
selected by Caucus three years ago.
Senator Bill Plain goes back to his old job
as Chairman of Committees in place of
Kingsmill.
Perth chooses its chief magistrate by
direct vote of the ratepayers, and there was
a brisk contest last time, it being reckoned
that the winner would become Lud Mayor
and a knight during the centenary year.
The Lud Mayoralty came along last Week
with the hundredth anniversary of the found-
ing of the city, but no K. was prefixed to J. T.
Franklin’s C.M.G. However, the King’s son
handed him that distinction in 1927, and
Franklin is probably content to wait. A
contractor by trade, and a quiet, charitable
fellow, Franklin has been on the City Coun-
cil for nearly a quarter of a century. He has
made several attempts to get into the Leg.
Assembly, but has had to be content with
a seat in the other House.
Arthur Wheen, translator of “All Quiet
°k v 1? .Western Front,” was a signaller in
the 54tli Battalion. He was one of the bat-
talion humorists, though he never drank,
swore or smoked, and he had won his com-
mission and the Military Medal with two
bars when a Shattered elbow put him out
of action. A N.S.W. Rhodes Scholar after
the. war, he is now on the staff of the Vic-
toria and Albert Museum, London. Ilis
home suburb was Roseville.
Jim Dooley, Premier of N. S. Wales for
six months and Speaker for two years, was
called to order by a magistrate the other day
for keeping his bar open after hours-*-he
runs a pub at Leura. Though he swears he
is done with politics, there’s more than a
chance that Dooley will contest the np\v
Katoomba electorate as a Labor man He
would naturally prefer Hartley, which he
represented for 20 years, and which the redis-
tribution has made the safest Labor spot
outsffie Sydney; but Hamilton Knight,
M.L.A., is keeping an eye on that con-
stituency.
The burly figure of W. T. McCoy will be
seen in Adelaide no more—he passed out, at
62, after a few days’ illness. A Sydney Uni-
versity man, McCoy became an inspector of
schools in N.S.W., aDd then Director of Edu-
cation in Tasmania, moving on to South Aus.,
also as Director, in 1919. He did fine work
m all three States, for the universities in
Hobart and Adelaide as well as his depart-
ments.
J. P. Harvey, Queensland’s new Surveyor-
General, is a young man as Surveyors-Gen-
eral go; he first saw the light at Mt. Morgan
in 1892. Grounded at Brisbane Grammar,
lie worked with the engineering and survey
staff of the Mt. Morgan mine before taking
out his license as a surveyor. Service
abroad from 1917 to the Armistice followed;
it wasn’t till after the war that he joined
the Survey Department. Harvey has organ-
ised a methodical determination of fixed
points which will have an important bear-
ing on future Queensland surveys and the
compilation of new maps.
Josiah Keys, who has knocked up 100 not
out in Clutha County (M.L.), claims that
his grandfather fought in the Siege of Derry
in 1689. His father, he says, died at 86, and
his grandfather reached the century; then
each must have been in the ’eighties when,
like Mr. Bardell, he “imprinted his image
on a little boy.” Josiah also says he was
in America 13 years before the Civil War,
and was called to the colors, but secured
exemption. Then he went to Cuba to man-
age a sugar factory. He still had time to
return to and live in Ireland before going
to M.L. and qualifying as an old identity of
the Shivery Isles.
Influenza kept Scullin away from the
House of Reps, on the opening day, and
three of his followers were missing. Sick-
ness has been added to the physical dis-
ability which has darkened the Jot of the
once-stalwart Jim Matthews, member for
Melbourne Ports, and the doctors won’t let
him go to .Canberra for a few months. The
other absentees were McGrath, who was
worsted in argument with a cable-car in Mel-
bourne, and Blakeley, who is recuperating
in North Queensland after his bout of pneu-
monia in ’Berra.
W. J. Young, generally known as “Young
of Elder’s” to distinguish him from other pro-
minent Adelaide men of that name, has
moved up from general manager of Elder,
Smith and Co. to managing director. T. E.
Field accordingly moves from Perth, where
he has been manager most of this century, to
a similar position in the head office.
Frank Tate is back on the Vic. Council
of Public Education, of which he was* pi*esi-
dent when Director of Education; the octo-
genarian Alex. Leeper, former warden of
Trinity Col., Melb. Uni., made the vacancy
by resigning. It is expected that Tate,,who
has been a C.M.G. since 1919, will get a
helping from the next batch of knighthoods.
A little man who did big things in the
climbing line was Samuel Turner, of Maori-
land, who has crossed the Great Divide.
Turner thought nothing of running round
from Dawson’s Falls to the North Egmont
Mountain House before breakfast, doing the
trip there and back via the 8000 ft. summit of
Egmont. He was the first man to ascend
Aorangi alone, and he also accomplished
the great traverse of the three peaks of Mt.
Cook. He wrote several books on his hobby.
Turner was in the dairy-produce business.
F. S. Graham, dead at Oberon (N.S.W.),
was one of the decreasing band who piloted
Cobb and Co.’s coaches. Graham cracked a
whip for the firm, the head office of which
was in Bathurst near by, between Bla.vney
and Grenfell, but the iron horse ousted him.
Afterwards he ran a service between Taraua
and his native Oberon; but the railway beat
him there, too.
Dr. William Morrison, of Melbourne, who
edited the proceedings of the world dental
congress in Melbourne, has received recog-
nition for a big job by being elected a fellow
of the International Dental Institute, U.S.A.
Only two such decorations go to any one
country. Morrison graduated from Mel-
bourne University to the University of Penn-
sylvania, which sent him in his first year
as lecturer to the Dental School in Paris.
His taste for languages leads him much
amongst the foreign communities in Mel-
bourne. He is vice-president of the Dante
Society.
Young Frank Borland, son of Dr. Borland,
of Scots’ Church,
Melbourne, is on
his way to Korea
with his bride to
instruct the youth
of that Japanese
possession. T h e
two will spend six
months in a mis-
sionary training
college beforehand.
Frank Borland is
a product of Scotch
and Ormond col-
leges. He rounded
off an excellent
’Varsity record by-
winning first-class
final honors iu
philosophy.
H. K. NOCK,
president of
the N. S. Wales
Farmers and
Settlers. Reso-
lutions passed at
the association’s
annual conference
have been widely
discussed.
When Dave McGrath, M.H.R. for Ballarat,
was knocked down by a cable tramcar at
the corner of Market and Collins streets
(Melb.), Comrade Jones was on the spot in a
twinkling. Without losing a moment Jones
had McGrath transported to Melb. Hospital
in an ambulance, and formalities were swept
aside. Manufacturer, pastoralist, able
administrator and tactful Labor leader in
the Uppish H’ouse, Jones is the man for an
emergency, whether it be a street collision
or an earthquake.
A. Morris, a Broken Hill field naturalist,
goes out back to gather his botanical speci-
mens, but is not unmindful of the town.
He noticed that one half of the hospital
ground looked very bare compared wirh
the plantation in the other half, and after
an industrious pilgrimage told the board that
800 trees were available if they were wanted.
A call for volunteers was answered, though
sinking on the stony hillside was no joke,
and it is now only a matter of planting the
trees.
J. D. Webster, who died the other day
at Oakleigh (Vic.), was a link with two
pioneering families. Webster’s dad settled
in the early days at Yea; his only surviv-
ing sister is the widow of Charles McMahon,
who was twice Speaker of Vic. Assembly
(1871-77 and 1880) and before that was
Chief Commissioner of Police. A son, the
third J.D. of the Webster line, is a civil
engineer at Hurstville (N.S.W.).
Adelaide is promised a mayoralty contest
that will rank with Cohen v. Baker 20 years
back and Smith v. Colton in ancient
history. Lavington Bonython, now in the
second year of a second tenancy, will be
opposed by Glover, who has been in the
City Council for 25 years and Mayor four
times in the last decade. It is likely that
every member of the Council will be opposed,
too, chiefly because of the widespread opinion
that the resolute improvements to North-
terrace are really damaging the city’s most
beautiful promenade.
Father Valentino Francks, now in Sydney,
was appointed successor to Father Damien,
the hero of Molokai. When on his way to
the leper station he received orders to stop
iu Hawaii. That is 40 years ago, and he
has labored in Hawaii ever since.
Pastoralist Samuel Winter Cooke, some-
time Vic. M.L.C. and M.H.R., who died in
England on June 26, left £100,140. lie had
no children, and his nephew, Lempriere
Cooke, and his widow are the principal
legatees. Desirous of maintaining the line
of Cookes, the testator expressed a wish that
his nephew should make a will providing
for the Murndal estate, in the Hamilton dis-
trict, passing to his descendants.
Life-saving seems to run in the blood of
the Cottrill family, of Penshurst (Vic).
Maida Cottrill, aged 12, who has beeu
awarded the bronze medal of the Roval
Humane Society for saving a boy from
drowning, is the third member of the elan
to gain the coveted trinket. An uncle won
it in 1913 for carrying a woman from a
burning house, and her grandmother in 1887
tor jumping on a railway line and rescuing
a helpless man from certain death. Grand-
mother just had time to fling herself clear
of the thundering train.
Lord Horne, who died last week, was one
of the successes of the World War When
he went to S. Africa in 1899. as an It.A.
major, he realised that the Boer gunners
were registering most of their hits by in-
direct fire, and said so. The authorities
scorned the information, and the British
fought the war to a finish with point-blank
shooting. Home was sent to France in com-
mand of the Ist Corps Artillery in 1914. was
ill charge of the artillery defences of the
Canal in 1915, and then went back to
France as G.O.C. the Ist Army. He was
a cautious Scot with a scientific mind and
no prejudices, who had been a barracker
for Dominion troops from his S. African
days.
W. V. Fitzgerald, who has gone under to
fever in Mandated New Guinea, was an
Australian to be proud of. By birth a Tas-
manian, he was sealed to mining and its
kindred pursuits from childhood. He sup-
plemented this training with a Forestry
course in India and experience under that
great botanist Baron von Mueller; and he
was a member of various scientific expedi-
tions in North Westralia. Sir William
Macgregor took Fitzgerald to Papua to
report on the geology and vegetation of the
Northern Division, and lie was a member
of the punitive expedition sent out after the
murders of Clark and other prospectors and
of magistrate Green and his native police
in 1896. Later, on the other side of the
island, he cleared up the mystery surround-
ing the fate of a German party which had
crossed into British territory and had been
murdered by its native escort. Though
well over age, lie served and was wounded
in the Great War.
In Dean Inge, whom Sydney University
has nominated as Overseas Lecturer for 1930,
Australia will meet one of the clearest think-
ers and worst speakers in England. Though
nearly 70, he has the spare figure and wiry,
dark hair of a young man. But his mind
has never been young, and he has what that
great Englishman P. G. Hamerton called
“the English habit of despising.” He despises
chiefly the workers, “colonials” and the Irish,
and his remarks about them and other sec-
tions have done much to keep him from
rising higher in the Church. It was not till
he was satisfied that a bishopric would never
come his way that he took to daily journal-
ism, and so put the thing beyond doubt. An
odd characteristic of this ascetic divine is
that he loves feasting in public. He is the
only eminent London cleric who attends prac-
tically all the great city banquets to which
he is invited.
A grandson of the General Blucher who
made a timely appearance at Waterloo is
leading the Russian forces at present skir-
mishing with the Chinese on the border of
Manchuria. A few years ago he dropped
his grandfather’s surname and appeared as
Galens in China, when that country was
looking for Soviet assistance against Western
“inperialism.” It was Galens, assisted by
a German staff, who tuned up President
Chiang’s Cantonese army for the successful
march on Peking, though even then it wasn’t
ROBERT FURSE McMILLAN, West-
ralion Chief Justice and Lieut.-
Governor. A conspicuous figure in the
centenary celebrations.
much of au army when it met a resolute
Jap force at Tsinan. After the
were turned out of China Galens became
Blucher again and bossed the Red Army in
the Ukraine.
“P.M.”: Holman wasn’t the first Aus-
tralian Minister to take to the air (B.
7/8/’29). Billy Hughes flew when lie
visited the troops in France in 1918 to tell
them how to win the war.
ON THE PAROO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
I’ve known the joy of a roaming boy
In her flowers and her starry sheen;
And I’ve seen men die ’neatli her brazen sky
When only the trees were green.
I’ve tramped with sheep when the sands
were deep
On the roads and the crossings, too,
And the shimmering haze was a dazzling
blaze
Out on the lone Paroo.
I've ridden wide on the western side,
Far over the slumbering hills,
While cattle browsed on the trails and
drowsed
In the withering wind that kills.
I’ve swum the vales in the lashing gales,
With the waters swirling through ;
And thirsted there when the vales were bare
Out on the lone Paroo.
And yet am I fain to turn again.
As others have turned before,
At the Siren’s call through the hazy pall,
To rove in her realms once more.
Though I wander far, with no let or bar.
Beneath leaden skies or blue,
My spirit dwells in the sunny dells
Out on the lone Paroo.
N.B.W.
E. S. SORENSON.


Poverty
Point
ECONOMISING
"The Bruce Government's excuse for depriving Wagga and Goulburn of their historic batteries of artilley is that each of the two batteries costs approximately £550
per annum more than the cost of a Sydney battery."
FINANCIAL REFORMER: "Of course we're taking away your jolly old battery! It cost us an extra five-fifty a year-ten pound eleven and sixpence ha'penny
a week! How could we go on finding millons for State speedways and royal commissions if we let you fellows squander money like that?"
“Feng-Shui”: It would be difficult to
parallel this happening in theatrical his-
tory. During the six days’ mourning pre-
cribed for Sun Yat-sen’s funeral the Chinese
Government ordered all theatres to close.
Most obeyed, but two in Shanghai, owned
respectively by a British and an American
syndicate, ignored the mandate. Like many
buildings in Shanghai, their fronts were in
the foreign settlement, and hence beyond
Chinese jurisdiction, Avhile their backs were
in China proper. Consequently, the box-
offices were merrily taking the money of
theatregoers at the entrances, while Chinese
soldiers were flinging the audience out at
the rear. Finally matters came to a head
when one of the managers, having inadver-
tently stepped over the invisible borderline
between the two administrations, _ was
promptly nabbed and thrust into a Chinese
gaol.
J. 8.”: The high price of admission to
the picture-shows throws a spotlight on the
march of the cinema in the way of public
entertainment. It isn’t so many years
since thrippence would take you into a show,
and in at least one place in Sydney a couple
of dead marines would admit a child. One
proprietor tried to boom his show by pre-
senting each patron with a tin of jam on
one night a week —an off night.
j. Beresford Fowler: M. G. Skipper’s gibe
(B. 7/8/’29) at my taking a loading part m
nearly all my productions will fall sweetly on
the sympathetic cars of a disgruntled few
made" like ,Cassius. Mr. Skipper, however,
cannot be aw-are of the difficulties of a pro-
ducer who has to consider the various pri-
vities (business and pleasure) of an unpaid
company. But the majority of my players
realise that a talented mother, a life-time on
the stage, with 10 or more years under Cecil
King, Allan Wilkie, Gregan McMahon, Bert
Bailey, Harry Roberts, George Bryant and
other skilled producers, has given me greater
qualifications for most of the .parts I essay
than the amateur actor can be expected to
possess Regarding the wonderful notices
that I “allege” to have been written by the
distinguished critics mentioned, if_ at •
Skipper is sceptical he may find them in my
press-book alongside his own unfavorable
notices.
“Cine Ma”: The science of acoustics is
still in the experimental stage, and some of
the factors are so variable as to give the
authorities concerned grey hairs. An dddi-
ence composed of men in hard-boiled shirts
will reflect sound and thus cause echoes con-
siderably more than will a houseful of women
clad in furs. On the other hand, if it is a
hot night and the women remove then-
outer garments, their scanty modern costume
has scarcely any absorption qualities at all.
Similarly a half-empty hall is less absorbent
than a full one. With the talkies it is possible
to modulate the noise to conform to vary-
ing conditions, though few theatres appear to
do it With a singer, a pianist or an orches-
tra such modulation is difficult, which is one
reason why critics who attend concerts on
different nights often disagree.
“Gad” : The frequency with which soldiers
of the British Army appear as film actors is
indicated in a War Office order to the Aider-
shot Command. It states that film companies
will in future be obliged to take out an
accident insurance policy for each soldier
wdiilst so employed: Death, £1000; loss ot
both hands or feet or sight of both eyes,
£2000; loss of one hand or foot or one eye,
£lOOO - disablement by injuries other than
those specified, resulting in discharge from
the army, £5OO.
“R. Volt”: In the infantile “Dracula,”
wolfbane is rubbed on window-sashes to pre-
vent the vampire-count from entering in the
form of a bat; fmd when he does get in a
crucifix instead of a revolver is effective for
holding him up. When I was stationed at
Banyuwangi, Java, the quarters occupied by
the cable staff were infested by bats. They
emerged in a gigantic procession fully a
mile long from a single room in the old
Dutch fort every evening, and after circling
the town in excellent formation, would break
up. Scores would find their way under the
eaves of the quarters, and spend the night
holding Olympic games between the ceiling
and the roof. To get rid of the nuisance a
Dutchman suggested hanging a couple of
beef bones with plenty of meat on them
over the eaves—but the beef bones must be
arranged in the form of a cross. Although
sceptical we carried out these directions with
immediate beneficial results. Do bats fear
crosses or, being insectivorous, do they dis-
like the smell of meat?
“L.ILP.”: Offenbach’s comic opera ‘ La
Fille du Tambour Major,” lately revived on
a Mosman stage, was the first to pass tne
century run (101 nights) in Australia.
Johnny Wallace, who produced the opera
for the Mosman dramatic society, played
Bambini in that long run at Melbourne
Opera House from Boxing night, 1880, to
well over the Easter of 1881. Johnny is
now 85 and still going strong. Sydney
first saw the opera at the Royal on June
19, 1881. Nellie Stewart made a great hit
as Griolet, the drummer boy, and George
Dean, also still on top, was Gregorio. When
Musgrove joined J.C.W. in 1882, the opera
became part of the repertoire of the Royal
Comics, and was revived by them at Sydney
Royal on October 20, 1883, with Nellie
Stewart in the prima donna role of Stella.
Wallace repeated his old role of Bambini.
Bill Anderson revived the piece at Sydney
Royal in 190 G. Since when it has slept,
except for amateur revivals.
“Craiser”: Beauteous Margaret Banner-
man’s passion for seeing herself in exotic
rules is having a fresh vent in “The Tiger
in Man,” a drama containing as weird a
collection of “types” as “Victory,” the fiasco
she starred in at Melbourne Royal. The
plot is pitched in Malaya, Australian Dion
Titheradge is the author, and the piece is
to be tried on Brighton (Eng.). When
Miss Bannerman played in “Victory” she
was supposed to appear in one scene clad
in nothing but a Malay sarong. The sarong
is not an elegant costume for a white woman,
but the star meekly adopted the garb during
rehearsals. On the opening night, however,
when the cue arrived she rushed into her
dressing-room and emerged, not in the native
skirt, but in a black drape, which, while
admirably designed to show off her agree-
able figure, was about as Malayan as a wheat
silo.
“The Crow”: Bill Coulter, skittled by a
motor-car in Sydney, was at home in blood
and bellows. I remember him doing Gabbett
in a production of “His Natural Life” years
ago. After he had chased one of the char-
acters off-stage with an axe, he returned
bearing a raw shin of beef with a blucher-
boot laced on to the thin end. Bill
gnawed his trophy with carnivorous gusto.
He was the fattest starving-man I have seen,
but he loved realism in his art.
“Casars Ghost”: Bill (W.J.) Coulter,
who was still acting at 71, has passed hence,
knocked by a motor-car at Woollahra (Syd-
ney) as he was alighting from a tram. The
old chap’s bulky form was utilised to give
a comedy touch to Justice in the last years
of his life, but he used to be very dashing
as a juvenile. As a young man he was lessee
of the Queen’s Theatre in York-street; the
last time he got a real opportunity was with
the Irish Players at the Sydney Palace.
He was particularly good as Bottom in “Mid-
summer’s Night’s Dream.”
“L. de R.”: People wdio heard Percy
Grainger’s “March of Democracy” and his
“The Warriors” will be interested to know that
he has composed another work for orchestra
called “Jutish Medley,” and that after
the performance at Hastings (Eng.) critics
praised it for its exhilarating exuberance and
originality, one remarking that the simple
peasants from whom he got his themes would
be astonished at what Grainger has done
with them. Concertgoers in Melbourne are
not likely to forget his conducting of liis own
“Warriors” opus when he had three pianos,
a symphony orchestra with many additional
instruments and a tenor and a soprano sing-
ing nonsense syllables all on the Auditorium
stage together. The Victorian conducted yke
an inspired Methodist evangelist, and left
a tradition behind which has turned even our
soberest conductors into so many May-Day
orators of the baton.
“Hamfat”: In the war play “Journey's
End,” the war is seen through the entrance
leading up from the officers’ dugout to the
trenches which calls for some good effects,
with the final crumbling of the dugout under
shell fire; and generally the piece gives a
more realistic and less hysterical Picture ot
the war than that usually staged. But thes-
is one glaring defoct. The stage directions
say that such things as star shells and
shell bursts are seen from the dugout. In
the A.1.F., at all events, a blanket had to
hang at a dugout entrance, or all lights put
out.
“Middle C”: “A Major” is correct (B.
17/7/’29) when, writing of alleged aphro-
disiac music, he says “music gives no more
than one can put into it.” There is not one
composition which in itself is capable ot
inducing eroticism; it is the association
which produces this effect. A negroid chant
which to a nigger would reek of sex would
sound to us a strange tune full of strange
rhythms The Appassionata Sonata might
stir my neighbor to unmentionable emotions,
but in this respect it leaves me cold. A
waltz can make a hearer hot and bothered
because of what is associated with it in
memory.
“R. Volt”: Ashton Jarry was not the only
painstaking member of the cast which put
on “The Green Goddess” under G. B. Post.
When Wynnington Barnes went into the
rajah’s wireless cabin to send out an SOS,
real Morse spluttered over the auditorium.
It was indifferent sending, but it was Morse
all right.
“Hamfat”: When David Elliott was in
Australia —where he appeared under the
name of Belbridge—Edmund Fisher had a
notch cut for him on that stick he kept as
a sort of dishonor roll of actors ; but David
has since gone ahead in America. When
lately he appeared with the Jitney Players
in the Cherry-lane Theatre at Greenwich
Village, the Noo Yark critics who went
down to see him spread the butter thick. The
Jitney Players are a band of mummers who
travel usually to small towns in motor-cars,
introducing high-class comedy and drama to
the “smalls”; their managing; director, is
Bushney Cheney, whose dad is . a million-
aire. The production put forward in Green-
wich Village was R. B. Sheridan’s “A Trip
to Scarborough,” which has been subject to
revival both in England and America after
being neglected for nearly a century and a
half.
“Cine Ma” : Possibly the reason why the
talkies are audible to the deaf (B. 24/7/’2!()
is that they are habitually magnified
anything up to four times the normal volume
or the human voice. ’Phis is not noticed
when the eye is watching the screen, be-
cause the figures are anything up to 10
times the natural size. But try shutting
your eyes!
THE GREY-HAIRED MOTHER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“His song about the grey-haired mother fell flat.
That theme would have stirred another generation.'
—Sydney paper.
With emotion deep in other
Days we’d warble of the mother
Who was waiting, broken-hearted, by the fire-
side or the door.
Every “vaudevillain trader
A pathetic figure made her:
But the grey-haired, grief-worn lady moves
the crowd to tears no more.
Grey-haired dames perchance there may be,
Still to mourn about the baby
Once they bore, who’s gone a-wandering but
may ramble back some day;
Yet the flapper rna of fifty, .
In her costume brief and nifty,
Whom we nowadays encounter —well, she
isn’t built that way.
Salt with modern jest your patter.
Take a hold op things that matter —
Sing of cabarets and joyrides, if you’re look-
ing for recalls;
For the dope that once was jingled
Somehow doesn’t fit the shingled
Mother who is eating choc'lates with her
escort in the stalls.
N.S.W.
HAMFAT.


:\ W>\N\\w\' 1MI!!'! HI! ■l' .',7/ V'"' ‘ ~'.
\ X '\ <» ‘ ! ' ; , ’ ! ■ ’ ‘ ' X
' \ ' ' 1 / ' /
//
Wi
O'i'l
•ss
ass
IT
460
%
PURCHASED CARSAfKIW
UNNECESSARILY IMPORTED
BODIES DURING THE PAST
n MONTHS.
\jkT E state positively that bodies built in Australia
by Holden’s are superior to those imported.
We know that there are other Australian bodies which
do not possess features proved to be essential to
Australian conditions. Holden bodies do combine
these necessary features—we stand solidly behind that
statement.
Prove this by comparing Holden Body equipped cars
of to-day with any others in their price range. Your
decision must be in favor of the Holden body car.
If all bodies needlessly imported annually were
produced in Australia, regular employment would
be provided for an additional 2000 workmen .
The following makes of cars have Holden “World Quality’
’ Bodies
AUSTIN, 7 h.p.
AUSTIN, 16 h.p.
BUICK
CHEVROLET
CHRYSLER
(Plymouth)
CHRYSLER
DE SOTO
MARQUETTE
MORRIS COWLEY
MORRIS MINOR
OAKLAND
OLDSMOBILE
OVERLAND
PONTIAC
STANDARD
VAUXHALL
WILLYS-KNIGHT
-B
MW
HOLDEN’S MOTOR BODY BUILDERS LTD., WOODVILLE (S.A.), MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, BRISBANE


In
Oh? .
Jfotel yfcfinement
„ every respect of comfort, service and “company Scott s
is “The Hotel of Refinement”— an hotel where either
lady or gentl man feels in the right environment
Modernly serviced in every respect “Scott’s’ offers every
up-to-date convenience.
Sumptuous lounges, drawing and writing rooms, electric
fires, hot and cold water and telephones in all bedrooms.
Inclusive Tariff by Day or
Bed and Breakfast Rate.
JcTottjr'
Collins St., Melbourne
Telegrams anc
Cables:
“ Scott sotel ”
Melbourne
Phone;
Central 9010
(10 lines.)
mi
The “Explosives” House
Explosives and Accessories of All Kinds
Supplied at Lowest Prices.
Manufacturers of •
RENDROCK,
The Safest, Cheapest and Most Effective High Explosive Known.
Can be forwarded by Rail or Steamer at ordinary rates of freight
Blasting Machines, Steel Rock Drills.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, 1042ParramattaRoad,Camperdown, Sydney
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Five-o’clock Girl’’
Royal (com. Saturday) “The Squeaker
Palace ?«» a
nvoLi v , au i e ,V- lle
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “Show Boat’’
Royal “Journey’s End”
King’s
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
•
\n attendance worthy of the offering
lisrened at Sydney Town Ilall on Saturday
evening to a fourscore-strong Conserva-
torium Orchestra, conducted by Efrem
Kurtz, baton-waver for Pavlova, with Jascha
Spivakovsky as solo pianist. The outstand-
ing item was Tschaikowsky’s Sixth or
‘Tathetique” Symphony, its intense poig-
nancy hushing even the army of programme
rustlers and fidgets. Particularly meritori-
ous in the slow-time first movement was the
sweetness of the stringed instruments, and
any sensation-seekers whom the adagio and
the waltz movements failed to disturb emo-
tionally should have been satisfied by the
stirring march-scherzo with its abandoned
downward sweep. Anyway, the fervor of the
inarch so affected a portion of the audience
that they burst into premature applause.
Efrem Kurtz accomplished the feat rarely
achieved with success of directing the sym-
phony and the “Rienzi” Overture without
recourse to the score. Tall and slender he
hovered over his orchestra, and the orchestra,
a surprisingly youthful one, highly strung
and responsive, acted practically throughout
as if its members were his instruments.
Kurtz is far removed from the old-style
pedagogical conductor, but that it not to say
that there is anything slipshod in his
work. Rather his flexibility and flair for
saturating himself with the spirit of the
music he is directing enable him to reap
the full harvest from the score. His enthu-
siasm and sincerity enlist the sympathetic
support of his players.
Jascha Spivakovsky made his appearance
in the performance of another Tschaikow-
sky piece—the P. Flat minor Concerto for
pianoforte and orchestra. After holding up
the proceedings until he changed his chair,
and then until he secured a cushion, he got
to work, and the outcome was a fine co-
BARBARA LUDDY, who will appear in “Lombardi, Limited,"
at Sydney Criterion.
operation between pianist and orchestra. He
was at his best in the fiery finale.
¥ * *
If all the shrieks emitted by the audience
at Melbourne Palace on Wednesday when
"The Gorilla” was unfolded could be turned
into electric light they would illuminate the
city for a fortnight, and if they could be
turned into spaghetti they would feed the
Italian community for a twelve-month, and
if they could be condensed into one concen-
trated yell they might wake the. legislators
a* the tap of Spring-street to a sense of
public duty. This last may be doubtful.
The entry of Gladys Moncrieff and loin
Moore into theatrical management marks a
new* era in the history of the Australian
stage, according to the prospectus of the
organisation, and as they introduced the first
stage-leper in local annals into “The Zep-
pelin Terror” and have an anthropoid ape
wandering amongst the audience of The
Gorilla,” the claim is not excessive. The
Gorilla” is stated to be a burlesque oi a
mystery play, but it seemed just a mystery
play to the present writer. The late
lamented Moscovitch, who went out glori-
ously defending the box-office in 1927, could
have swallowed the thing whole without
endangering his artistic digestion. Ihe
Gorilla” seems to be all Edgar Wallace and
a bit of E. A. Foe condensed into one night
of murk and Mafia. There is not much to
be said about the performance, except that
William Greene is as leaden as a September
sunset- that William Ralston and Sydney
Hollister are two comic detectives and Leslie
Laurier the equally comic hero; that Wil-
liams 11 assail is an excellent animal imper-
sonator ; that Vera Spaull is the silver lining
to the crowd of assorted bad characters; and
that the audiences succeed in laughing at
the thing almost continuously, despite the
somewhat patchy production of Mr. Charles
Road-Night. # #
Beresford Fowler deserves credit for his
stern, unbending determination to provide
Melbourne with Ibsen, Strindberg and other
of the greater and more sombre masters, but
his zeal could be tempered with a little more
discretion. It. is a dubious artistic expedient
to appear in the. principal male rples in three
plays on the one night, as he did last week
at the Queen’s Hall. The impression one
carried away was not of having seen three
separate characters, but of thrice having seen
Mr. Beresford Fowler. The indefatigable,
actor-producer was tolerable in the Strind-
berg drama, “Miss Julie,” but in the Grand
Guignol piece, “Cupboard Love," he was not.
Miss Edna Morcom lacked the histrionic
intelligence for expressing the neurotic vol-
cano of demi-insanity who is Julie of the
Strindberg opus. She seldom registered more
emotion than would be displayed by a silk-
worm suddenly deprived of its lettuce. Nancy
Fryberg shouted the lines allotted to Chris-
tine as if her audience were on the far bank
of the Yarra. A lugubrious evening. Fowler
has done better.
if ¥ *
Some excellent music was purveyed by the
Walter Turnbull
(Robert Ginn) is
the only partner,
Johnson being
imaginary the
typist is Portia
(Nellie B.). While
Turnbull is away
Portia, to save
losing a client, be-
comes Johnson,
and is counsel in a
breach - of - promise
case. Later Turn-
bull comes back,
and knowing no-
thing of Portia’s
doings, acts as
counsel for the
opposition. The
show ends up with
the usual marriage;
* ¥
Adelaide Royal
infilling in a slack
time with variety;
manager Rendall is
having the house
wired so that any
possible future gap
can be used for
talkies. Maisie
Gay, with he r
voluble and good-
natured London
vulgarity, is the
backbone of the
p r e sent show.
Walter Richard-
son, negro tenor, is
an effective singer
and a line
and Billy Elliott
rolls out the Old
Man River ballad
that is going to
be an obsession for
a year or two.
Clifford and Gray
boys and girls of
the University Con-
servatorium at their
midwinter o u t-
brea k at Mel-
bourne Auditorium,
but the achieve-
ment of the even-
ing was the playing
by John Simons of
the last two move-
ments of the Mac-
dowell Concerto in
,C minor, said to be
its first perfor-
in an c e in Mel-
bourne. Simons,
who is 18, released
the whole spirit of
the opus; his per-
formance would
have done credit to
many older virtu-
osi. This Page will
keep its eye on
him. Hermia Bar-
ton gave a consid-
era b 1 y advanced
reading of the first
movement of the
Brahms . Concerto
for violin, and Mor-
fyn Jones played a
capriccio by Frank
Bridge with mope
than mere student’s
deliberation. These
young people are
the raw material
of Melbourne’s per-
manent orchestra,
if and when that
organisation mat-
erialises, and it is
gratifying to note
that the raw mat-
erial is of such a
high order.
Community singing is providing a useful
standby for tlie Firm in Melbourne
during the present theatrical depression.
It is no uncommon thing to see the
King’s packed with 2000 people, their
eyes all earnestly glued on, the, face of G. T.
McKay, the vivacious male conductor. Com-
munity warbling is a great exercise for those
who like to take their emotion in common,
and is a means of escape in lunch-time
from Melbourne’s streets in winter. The
only trouble is that the ceremony is begin-
ning to lose its communal aspect and
slip into a sort of vaudeville entertainment.
Rupert Hazel and Elsie Day, the Radio
Revellers, Mildred and Connie and Arthur
Douglas were all billed on a recent occasion.
¥ * *
For Exhibition Week at Brisbane Royal,
Nellie Bramley chose ‘"She Couldn t tsay
‘No,’ ” probably the funniest comedy yet put
on by her. The play begins in the office of
Turnbull and Johnson, a firm of solicitors.
are neat jugglers; the Pickfords, too, hit
with a more varied lot of tricks, and the
Bowman ballet of local talent kicks in at
any odd corners.
* *
Edgar Benyon, in a one-man revue turn,
is Sydney Tivoli’s most outstanding change
for week's. David Poole, ventriloquist, and
the trio of Mexican dancers are both threat-
ening records in length of stay, and the short
talkies are improving in quality and effect.
With a complete change of bill, Jim
Gerald and co. gave one of their best per-
formances to date at Sydney I 1 ullers on
Saturday. The first half consisted of
variety turns by Gerald, Tom Dale, Keg
Hawthorne, Lily Coburn, Howard Hall and
others; and in the second a revue, “Once
Aboard the Lugger,” with (more or less
appropriately) an Oriental setting, proved a
good laugh-getter.
* * *
Nat Madison has returned to Melbourne
King’s with “No. 17” and a weightier cast
to interpret the masterpiece, though bring-
ing performers like Bertha Riccardo, Ashton
.Tarry and Ellis Irving to bear on a play
like '“No. 17” is rather like. calling up John
Monash to repair au electric-light fuse.
# * *
“Journey’s End,” the most significant and
absorbing drama seen in Melbourne for as
far back as one can remember, is being well
patronised at the Royal; and “Show Boat”
continues to be loaded below the Plimsoll
with color, mirth and melody at His
Majesty’s.
Like many superlative achievements,
“Journey’s End” arrived almost by acci-
dent. The author, Sherriff, ’wrote it as
a one-acter for charity at the request of a
body of Thames-side amateurs. One of the
actors in the first production saw the possi-
bilities in it, and got a producer interested.
It was expanded into a three-acter, and is
now making a fortune for its author.
* ¥ ¥ "
The Follies of 1929 are prospering at the
Tivoli, where wrestler Pesek, the Tiger Man,
and Banaski, the Smiling Pole, presented
last week a Stadium melodrama without
tears - * * *
At present advices, the Giannini season —
one of the most successful of the year—has
concluded at the Auditorium.
Leon Gordon, having scored a bull in
reviving “Brewster’s Millions.” which has
done excellent business at the Royal, in spite
of some indifferent casting, notably that of
the sometimes brilliant actor-leader MmMjf,
is about to try out Edgar Wallaces 1,1
Squeaker” The offering will be made on
> l At the Palace Nicola gives away almost
everything but the key of his tricks. Meccano
sets'chocolates, nosegays and pictures ot tm
wizard are as plentiful in the auditorium
as smashed eggs are on the stage. He has
also given free shows to hundreds of deserv-
ing youngsters, and last week even came out
of his tent and performed gratis in front ot
MARY RIGBY , with “The. Five-o’clock Girl,” at Sydney
Majesty’s
the show. Nicola told present writer that
he gave a tiger to a park-zoo m U.S.A., ana
when he was back that way eight years later
the animal recognised him immediately, cer-
tainly he has a striking personality. _
The froth that is Frith is proving itself as
palatable as ever at Her Majesty s, and at
the Criterion Tito Lombardi is unpacking
the raiment that Leo Carillo will shortly do
business with in “Lombardi Limited.
“Whoopee,” which went to the Opera House
after the Empire crash, is about to close its
career. ____
“75”: The Maori film “Under the Southern
Cross,” exhibited for the first time at
Rotorua, is a great success. The audience
was welcomed on behalf of the local tribe
by Chief Mita Taupopoki in full tribal
regalia, and actors who helped to make the
movie danced hakas and pois. Like other
native races, the Maori seems born to him
playing.
“C. Ma.”: Unless the people who make the
small quota of Australian films begin moving
and instal talkie apparatus, even that drop
will vanish in the imported ocean. It is
no use the Development and Migration Com-
mission and other*such-like bodies continuing
to make silent pictures to advertise the coun-
try when the country’s theatres are nearly
all wired for vocals.
“Mango”: An “immortal” has played the
“Blue Danube” for 75 hours consecutively
in Vienna. His name is Geza Ledovsky,
and it is said that he played in his sleep,
and never once struck a wrong note. Another
of these “immortals,” Herbert Cutter, of
California, has just completed a fishing
record —87 hours without a break. How-
ever, Rip Van Winkle’s record still stands.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: Cyril Keightley, dead
in New York, was a son of the S.M. whose
wife rode to Bathurst with a child in her
arms for police assistance when the S.M.
was seized by bushrangers (“Rolf Boldre-
wood”' used the incident in “Robbery
Under Arms”). Keightley had. the necessary
appearance and voice for the stage, but at
first was stiff and self-conscious, and Dan
Barry, with whom he made his start, swore
that 'he was the type of actor “you can only
make people come to see by giving away real
gold watches.” However, he acquired stage
poise with the Brough and Boueieault co„
and when he went to England he made an
immediate success, which was repeated in
New York. He was 54 when the final curtain
fell.


R°ne: 0
BUSINESS
EFFICIENCY
METHODS.
British Manufacture
STEEL CABINETS.
FILING SYSTEMS.
VISIBLE CARD
RECORDS.
RONEOTYPE
DUPLICATORS.
ADDRESSING
MACHINES.
ON EXHIBITION AT
21 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY.
ďf
64 MARKET STREET, MELBOURNE.
43 CREEK STREET, BRISBANE.
GAWLER PLACE, ADELAIDE.
107 MURRAY STREET, PERTH.
jPfipmNETRZP^
/;l e at her l ' v
Consider
the High Cost
of Breakdown
It is the truest economy to choose
reliable, conscientiously made, well-
tanned leather belting. For over 70
years Pioneer belting has been made to
give durable, continuous service.
Pioneer belting is your best insurance
against transmission trouble.
PIONEER Leather Belting
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, Sydney.
The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company, Limited.
Founded 1886.
Assets at 31st December, 1928,
£18,792,732
of which 84% was represented by
Public Securities.
The M.L.C. Charter is constituted to
admit of the issue of policies to meet
the necessities of every class, every age,
every purse. Its range of contracts is
unsurpassed for diversity and liberality,
and the fulfilment of every contract is
guaranteed by the Company’s capital
and its ever-increasing assurance Funds.
CASH SURPLUS in the Ordinary
Branch for the year 1928, £624,370.
ARTHUR EEDY,
Managing Director.
Head Office: Citizens’ Building, Castlereagh
Street and Martin Place, Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Australian Bank of Commerce.
To Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1919.. 97,256 5 p.c. = 59,934 37,322 186,389
1920.. 108,391 54 „ „ 65,967 42,424 228,813
1921 . . 129,578 6j „ „ 78,000 51,578 280,391
1922.. 127,196 7 „ „ 84,000 43,196 323,587
1923.. 130,678 7 „ „ 84,000 46.678 370,265
1924.. 133,253 7 „ „ 84,000 49,253 419,518
Inscribed deposits of £958,307 exchanged
for fully-paid shares, of which £638,872
were issued, the balance, £319,435,
being added to reserves .. .. 738,953
Premiums on new shares, £441 .. 739,394
1925.. 170,766 7ip.c.= 115,600 55,166 794,560
1926.. 197.943 8 ~ „ 147,200 50,743 845.303
Premiums on new shares, £131,120.. 976,423
1927.. 208,067 8 p.c. = 157,827 50,240 1,026,663
Premiums on new shares, £6BBO .. 1,033,543
1928.. 216,742 8 p.c. = 176,640 40,102 1,073,645
1929.. 218,545 8 „ ~176,640 41,905 1,115,550
The movements which attract most atten-
tion in the latest accounts are a leap of
£1,506,895 in advances and a growth of
£695,203 in deposits. What it cost to handle
the bigger business is not disclosed,
but the board wrote the year’s net
profit only £lBO3 better than the 1928 figure.
That was after setting aside whatever was
considered necessary for contingencies, etc.;
and since the outlook is less certain than it
was a year ago the provisions may have been
a bit more liberal than usual. The £218,545
of profit disclosed was 9.9 p.c. on average
capital compared with 9.8, 10.5, 10.7 and
11.8 p.c. back to 1925, during (he latter half
of which the div. was lifted from 7 to 8 p.c.
The decline in those ratios is due to the
recent rapid growth of the capital account,
to which over a million has been added dur-
ing the last five years. And all the increase
has not been on account of new money either ;
£638,872 of it represents scrip exchanged for
£958,307 of the old 4 p.c. deposit stock in
1925. The difference (£319.435) gave re-
serves a nice lift. And, what is more,
the bank enhanced its reputation. The
extra cost in dividends over interest was only
£ll, OOO-odd, and that has since been largely
offset by the redemption of the £244,079 of
inscribed deposits that did not convert. The
last of them were wiped off the books a
couple of years ago.
Then, to provide for further development
of the business, 368,000 £1 shares were put
out at a premium of 7s. 6d. each. Thus
paid capital, which was £1,200,000 at the
close of accounts in 1924, grew to £2,208,000
at June 30, 1928. and it still stands at, that
figure. Also £696,032, of which £238,156 was
surplus profits, has been visibly added to
reserves during the five years to June 30,
making them £1,115,550.
For many years after the reconstruction
in 1910 profit earning was handicapped by
the largeness of the bank’s own funds in
relation to the volume of business done. But
there has been a big improvement in that
respect since the City Bank of Sydney was
absorbed in 1917. Two years earlier the
A.B.C. was holding only £1 3s. 4d. of the
public’s money for every £1 of its own fund 5,
including the old deposit stock. When the.
hooks were ruled off in 1920 the figure had
grown to £3 4s. Od.—it had reached
£4 19s. Bd. at .Tune 30 last. . That,
careful management and constant atten-
tion to the inner strength have added
much to the attractiveness of the scrip.
Incidentally, any profits that may have
been made on the sale of the old licad-
offiee premises of the City Bank two years
ago, and upon the disposal, in 1915, of the
Inst of the written-down pastoral properties
taken oven from the A.J.S., did not show
up in the published accounts.
Here is a view of the progress from an-
other angle:—
Inscribed Other
Deposits. Deposits. Liabilities.
1910 .. £1,859,022 £1,716,477 £762,813
1915 .. 1,614,689 3,016,323 347,081
1920 .. 1,413,657 8,108,526 1.063,051
1924 . . 1,245,116 10,342,440 1,250,361
1925 .. 244,079 11,294,435 1,149,263
1926 .. 200,963 12,463,529 1,366,196
1927 .. Nil 13,201,514 1,859.653
1928 . . Nil 14,018,935 1,234,553
1929 . . Nil 14,714,138 1,854,760
Over 82 p.c. of the bank’s deposits are gath-
ered in N. S. Wales, and most of the balance
along the coast in Queensland. More than
half the lot is interest-bearing, and only
£118,352 was held on Government account
at June 30. The expansion of £620,207 in
other liabilities is mostly acceptances. At
June 30 depositors and others could see Bs.
of every £1 of their money in liquids:—
1925. 1928. 1929.
Coin and bullion.. £922,873 £786,887 £787,122
Aus. notes and cash
with C’wealth Bank 965,073 1,124,058 1,404,596
Gov. securities, etc. 535,773 730,211 881,105
Owing by other banks 418,542 612,379 548,556
At short call in
London .. .. 632,555 1,439,192 659,168
Bills on London.. 2,348,785 2,259,246 2,375,570
£5,823,601 £6,851,973 £6,656,117
The heavy drop of £780,024 in London call
money and the increase of £110,324 in bills
on that centre is mainly because the early
closing of the export season in 1928 piled up
the cash balances there. AJtogether liquids
were drawn upon for £195 856 last year.
That and the extra £1,315,410 of the pub-
lic’s money held at June 30 was used almost
wholly to accommodate clients, as this next
comparison shows: —
Liquid. Advances. Premises.
1910 .. £1,185.979 £3,754,889 £367,727
1915 .. 1,921,588 3.980,587 357,237
1920 . . 4,374,093 7,176.809 499,145
1925 .. 5,823,001 9,128,345 433,991
1926 . . 5,936,819 10,334,004 453,738
1927 .. 6,537,933 11,463,057 365.306
1928 .. 0,851,973 11,406,260 365,220
1929 .. 6,656,117 12,913,155 411,496
Advances moved up to 87.7 p.c. of deposits
compared with 81.3 p.c. and 86. S p.c. at the
two preceding balances; and the demand for
accommodation has become no easier since
the close of accounts. It won’t need to
continue much longer before the board begins
to think about new capital; unless, of course,
deposits grow at a greater rate than advances.
For the coming season prospects are for a
smaller yet satisfactory return from wool.
The wheat harvest in the three eastern States
is not expected to bo much more than half
the size of last year’s, though the recent rains
have improved the outlook, but prices are
strengthening owing to adverse seasonal con-
ditions in Canada and the Argentine. Dairy
produce and cattle promise well, but uncer-
tainty about British sugar preferences have
caused some uneasiness in that industry. The
tightening of the London money market has
compelled restriction in public expenditure,
and is a plain call to us to live within our
means.
The market, eager in its anticipation of
benefits, pays 355. or thereabouts for the
pound shares. At that figure the immediate
return is only 4| p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis. The backing amounts to 30s. sd. per
share in net tangibles.
Mercantile Mutual Insurance Co.
Added Capital
Net to Re- and Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1919.. 22,080 p.c. = 15,625 6,455 197,602
New capital, £25,000 .. .. 222.602
1920.. 25,471 124 p.c. = 18,750 6,721 229,323
New capital, £77,983 .. .. 307,306
Premiums on new shares, £27,408. . 334,714
1921.. 34,474 10 p.c. = 30,287 4,187 338,901
New capital, £127 .. .. .. 339,028
Premiums, £B5 .. .. .. 339,113
1922.. 30,562 10 p.c. = 30,305 257 339,370
1923.. 18,305 74 „ „ 22,733 334,942
Assets written up, £56,950.. .. 391,892
1924.. 35,681 10 p.c. = 30,311 5,370 397,262
From inner reserves, £BOOO . . 405,262
1925.. 39,092 10 p.c. = 30,311 8,781 414,043
1926.. 46,113 10 „ ~ 30,311 15,802 429,845
Premiums on shares and profit on
sale of freehold, £71,583.. 501,428
New capital, £30,640 .. .. 532,068
1927.. 51,012 10 p.c. = 33,375 17,637 549,705
1928.. 42,214 10 „ ~ 33,375 8,839 558,544
New capital, £44,000 .. .. 602,544
Share premium, £ll,OOO .. .. 613,544
1929.. 47,935 10 p.c. = 40,000 7,935 621,479
When the co. sold its old headquarters free-
hold in Martin-place, Sydney, to the Colonial
Mutual for £250,000, nearly three years ago,
it bought another property a few doors
round the corner in Pitt-street, and has since
built a fiue new home thereon. To see the
work through 55,000 new £1 shares were
offered early in the last term at a premium
of 45.; they have been called to 16s. The
premium (£11,000), which was Gent to
reserves, makes a 10 p.c. div. worth only
8 p.c. on the new shares, but since sound
insurance stock returning the investor 8 p.c.
is not to be had on the market the lot was
quickly snapped. Meanwhile, the board had
capitalised £22,250 (Is. per share) of re-
serves to celebrate the co.’s jubilee. Thus
paid capital became £400,000 in a round
half-million £1 shares, paid to 165., at June
30. Of that amount £152,250 has been pro-
vided by the capitalisation of reserves over
the last 36 years.
The co. moved into its new home early in
March last, and when the. accounts closed
four months later 70 p.c. of the letting space
had been booked. Considering the large
amount of money represented by premises
that were not bringing in any return for
the greater part of the term the year’s result
was surprisingly good. Interest and rents
(£21,085) were £3749 lower, but the net
profit claimed by the accounts (£40,364)
was only £lB5O less than the previous year’s.
That was after £7571 dropped from some-
where into the contingency fund (£21,115).
Including this addition the net result was
119 pc. on average capital compared with
12.6, 15 2, 15.2, 12.9 and 11.8 p.c. back to
1924. So the 10 p.c. div., which called for
an extra £6625, presented no difficulty.
Indeed, only once since the beginning of this
century have shareholders had less than 10
p.c., the average over the last 26 years being
14.1 p.c., and that has been sweetened with
the capitalisations referred to.
Years ago the Mercantile was an ultra-
conservative underwriter, but nowadays it
seeks also the milder profits to be won from
wider policy-writing, and is as energet : c
as the next in the hunt for new business.
Measured in net premium income the man-
agement has more than doubled the result
of 40 years of previous endeavor since 1919.
Here are underwriting performances over a
long period :
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1900.. £32,658 £9,068 £18,489 27.7 p.c. 56.4 p.c.
1910.. 64,515 21,656 35,078 35.1 „ 56.8 „
1920.. 177,683 67,212 94,083 37.8 „ 52.9 „
1925.. 357.188 186,834 147,901 52.3 „ 41.4 „
1926.. 374,560 200,835 155,476 53.6 „ 41.5 „
1927.. 428,008 245,025 156,923 57.2 „ 36.6 „
1928.. 389,950 211,676 160,894 54.3 „ 41.2 „
1929.. 362,107 198,925 143,963 54.9 „ 39.8 „
Adjustments in connection with workers'
compensation business affected the 1928
net premiums. Last year’s drop of £27,789
was because the management held fewer
of the risks accepted; gross premiums were
in excess of the previous year’s. Notwilll-
standing this, the cost of moving into the
new premises, and . a bigger bill from the
tax-gatherer and fire-brigades, exes, were
actually cut back £16,931. Claims wore
down £12,751, but the loss rate (54.9
p.c.) has only once been exceeded in the co.'s
history. The experience over the last eight
years suggests that the days of moderate
loss rates have gone with the extension of
the co.’s risks. Against that, of course,
has to be set the more favorable expense
rate: thus last year's underwriting profit
(£19,279, up £1899) was 5.3 p.c. of the net
premium income as against 4.4, 6, 4.8, 6.2
and 6.1 p.c. hack to 1924.
Assets are a solid lot; they usually are in
an insurance co:
1926. 1927. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital. . £303,110 £333,750 £333,750 £400,000
Liabilities .. 121,644 199,056 237,262 226,115
Freeholds . . 231,563 145,400 227,181 373,728
Mortgages . . 17,204 17,237 17,822 17,304
Investments . . 241,611 491,250 459,474 381,903
Book debts . . 69,645 107,028 80,865 86,232
Cash, etc. .. 27,077 12,533 35,153 18,668
The year’s building activity is reflected
in a growth of £146,547 in the book
value of freeholds. Investments, largely
public securities, were drawn upon for
£77,511, and cash, etc., for £16,485. That
was in addition to the new capital and share
premium moneys got in. Liabilities, which
include unadjusted claims, were £11,147
lighter.
Policy-holders are well protected. At June
30 reserves were equal to over 61 p.c. and
net assets 171 p.c. of the year’s net pre-
miums. If more than that is wanted share-
holders can he called upon to dredge up an-
other £lOO.OOO.
The market looks at the past and expresses
its confidence in the management by paying
325. 6d. for the scrip. The return at that
figure is a whisper under 5 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. The backing amounts to 245. lOd.
per share in net tangibles.
Yellow Cabs of Australia, Ltd.
' Net Towards De-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, ficit.
£> £ £ £.
1925*. 17,742 10 p.c. = 11,775 5967 6,942
Loss on De Luxe Assets, £3537 .. 10,479
Goodwill, £5OOO .. .. 15,479
1926.. 74,235 174 p.c. = 46,110 [ „ 1Q I . arn
Profits capitalised, £27,506 1 14,50 u
Reserves.
General Reserves disclosed, £25,000.. 10,140
1927.. 44,111 10 p.c. = 35,792 8319 18,459
Loss on De Luxe assets, £1269 .. 17,190
1928.. 20,580 Nil 20,580 37,770
1929.. 14,173 5 p.c. = 20,061 31,882
Capital returned, £100,305.
*8 months, 17 days.
Rapid shrinkage in the earning power of the
chief revenue-producing assets—the cabs —
the burden of mounting overhead and liberal
provision for depreciation have placed this
co. in a very unusual position. Under exist-
ing conditions it is unable to win sufficient
profits to pay a satisfactory dividend on
the £401,219 of capital in the business. Still
it is fortunate enough to be able to repay
to shareholders ss. of every pound of that
capital as from June 30, reducing the total
in the register to £300,914 in 15s. shares.
It is just a little over 41 years since the
co. put its first 152 cabs on the streets in
Melbourne, and a few months later it had an-
other 100 running in Sydney. Times were
pi’osperous, and the business bounded ahead;
by the end of 1926 the co. had no les3 than
502 cabs at work, and the glittering results
achieved sent the market rushing for the
scrip—G2s. 6d. was paid for the pound shares.
But conditions for the co. have changed
rapidly. Taxi hire is an indulgence which
many have had to curtail. Competition,
which was quickly in the field, has become
severe, and, though fares have been reduced,
it- has not been possible to keep the fleet
fully employed. Also arbitration awards and
other things have piled up the outgo.
How deeply all this has bitten into earn-
ings shows up sharply in the following com-
parison :
Gross No. of
Profits. Depreciation. Cabs.
1926 .. £134,128 £6.1,178 392
1927 .. 121,249 80,164 502
1928 .. 98,194 74,023 502
1929 . . 62,121 48,364 . 038
Last year's gross profits were less than two-
thirds of the previous year’s, and not much
better than half the 1927 figure. They are
what _ remain of each year's takings after
charging operating exes, and providing for
taxation, but before allowing for deprecia-
tion. The year’s net result (£14,173) was
a mere 3.5 p.c. on average capital com-
pared with 5.1, 12.3, 25.2 and 21.2 p.c. back
to the beginning. Shareholders, who went
hungry in the previous term, were handed
5 p.c., making an average of 5 p.c. for the
last three years. To do it the lay-by had to
be dipped into for £5BBB, reducing it to
£31,882 in excess of the intangibles
(£10,000).
The question arises, therefore, whether pro-
fits were any better than, stated. The position
in this respect is governed mainly by the
allowances made out of earnings for loss of
capital through wear and tear, etc., of cabs.
These arc; being written off on a mileage
basis equal to approximately half the life
indicated by the manufacturer (400,000 miles
per cab). The allowances are said to be in
excess of actual requirements, but no hint
is given as to what extent. A 10 p.c. div.
on capital as reduced (£300,914) will call
for £30,091, or more than double last year’s
declared net profit. As far as any imme-
diate improvement in earnings is concerned
the outlook is very uncertain.
Half-way through the last term a subsi-
diary, Town Taxis Pty., Ltd., was formed
to lease and operate the co.’s old cabs on a
percentage basis. Since then the whole of
the co.’s Sydney fleet has been placed on a
similar basis. The system promises well,
but has hardly had a fair opportunity to
prove itself, the chairman says. The shares
held in the subsidiary, by the way, have
not been given any value in the parent's
books.
The heavy depreciation charges and the
sale of some of the co.’s freeholds are re-
flected in the growth in liquids. Here is
the position as balance-sheet figures disclose
it:—
1925. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital .. .. £196,896 £401,219 £300,914
Mortgage . . . . 10,000
Sundry creditors . . 7,249 4,381 104,444*
Freehold . . . . 102,211 154,657 140,594
Cabs, etc. ) f 177,083 145,358
Garage equipment j 117,987 -! 12,587 7,830
Tyres, uniforms, etc. ) ( 12,398 11,172
Stocks 4,126 24,051 20,312
Book debts . . . . 4,724 25,567 38,179
Cash, investments, etc. 18,648 45,283 93,976
includes £100,305 capital returnable.
Book debts, cash, investments, etc., were
£128,016 in excess of the outside debt
(£4139) at June 30, or £61,547 more than
the excess at the previous balance. The
return of capital will reduce the surplus to
£27,711, and then the div. will take most
of that; thus the current year’s revenue
will not get the benefit from investments that
last year’s did. At June-30 the cabs, which
cost on the average £725 each, had a book
value of £291, fully equipped, as against •
£377 a year earlier. But the question on
which the investor needs to satisfy himself
is what can they earn? During year
39 large cabs were bought cheap from Yellow
Cabs (Queensland), Ltd., which merged its
interests with those of the Returned Soldiers’
Auto. Co. in Brisbane in 1928. The idea is
to hold these and other cabs in reserve, thus
reducing the cost of replacements, for a while
at any rate.
The market prices the fully-paid 15s.
.shares at 10s. lOd. At that figure the return
is a shade under 7 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis.
The net tangible backing per £1 of paid
capital amounts to 225. Id., of which 9s. Bd.
is represented by cabs, equipment, etc., worth
what they can earn.
Howard Motor Co. (Brisbane).
f Dividends
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Junc, Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1924.. 34,180 26 10 p.c. = 10,329 23,825 52,987
Reserves capitalised, £10,329 .. .. 42,658
1925.. 52,317 26 15 p.c. = 18,754 33,537 76,195
1926.. 69,606 26 15 „ „ 19,629 49,951 126,147
Taken from reserves, £8295 .. .. 117,852
1927.. 53,152 26 15 p.e= 23,472 29,654 147,506
1928.. 37,952 26 15 „ „ 23,472 14,454 161,960
1929.. 26,211 26 12J „ „ 19,560 6,625 168,585
This co. has been in the motor-agency busi-
ness in Queensland for the past 21 years. It
has never failed to pay a div., the average
rate being over 10 p.c. Recently it trans-
formed itself from a trading into a holding
and finance co. It came about in this way.
When General Motors, Ltd., commenced the
assembly and wholesale distribution of its
products here, the Howard Co. lost the con-
tract as distributor of Cadillac, Buick and
Chevrolet cars for Queensland. It was offered
the agencies for Brisbane, Toowoomba and
Rockhampton provided it handled General
Motors’ lines exclusively. For a while it


This is an abridged Prospectus.
Applications for shares tcill be received only
Broker and should be lodged
on the basis of the full Prospectus, which is
by 12 noon on 10th September' i\ext
available from any Official Stock Exchange
To Enable Australia to Share
in the Huge Profits of Whaling
TOO long has Australia neglected the wealth that lies in whaling! With the finest
whaling grounds in the world at our very doors—with the waters of the Antarctic
yielding fabulous cargoes of whale-oil —we have been content to stand by and see
other nations come thousands of miles to take the wealth we left on our own doorsteps.
Now Australia lias decided to take a hand. We are going to tap this industry and
share in the enormous profits that are being made.
Some idea of the richness of the field may be gathered from the fact that Norwegian
the Rosshavet Company, operating in the Ross Sea. , ,
This world’s record catch of 132,000 barrels by the Rosshavet Company proves beyond
a doubt the superiority of the Ross Sea as a whaling ground, further proof being
shown in the fact that the Rosshavet boats are able to select only the richer blue
whales for capture. These are so plentiful that the hordes of less valuable hump-
backed whales are disregarded.
In the Ross Sea and adjacent waters, therefore, wil] be born a new and vital Australian
industry—an industry that is destined to play a big part in the nation’s prosperity.
For this purpose there has been formed the
J
r
A
i
1
•v
Incorporated under the Companies
'Acts of New South Wakes — 1899 f, i9i8
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS.
CAPITAL - - - - £500.000
Divided into 500,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each as follows:— .. OTlp
330,000 Ordinary* Shares of £1 each for public subscription, payable 2/6 per Share on application, 2/6 per Share on allotment, and the balance in calls of 2/6 pei Sbaie at ’nteiva s o no
month. Of. these Shares priority of subscription has been granted in respect of 50,000 Shares to residents ot Norway.
15,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each, fully paid up, to be allotted to the Vendor Companies bo cash consideration. Comnany’s fleet, which is the usual practice in
155,000 Shares of £1 each are held in reserve for future issue, 20,000 of which are specially set aside for subscription by. Officers and crew of the Company iieeu.
Norwegian enterprises.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
F. E. BRYANT, Esq., Chairman Union Trustee Co. of Australia, Limited, Sydney; and
formerly Manager of Union Bank of Australia, Limited, Sydney.
SIR GRAHAM WADDELL, K.8.E., Chairman Australian Woolgrowers’ Council, and Vice-
President Graziers’ Association of N.S.W.
W. R. CARPENTER, Esq., Chairman and Managing Director W. R. Carpenter .and Co., Ltd.,
Island Merchants and Shipowners, Sydney and London.
mu DAVID ORME MASSON, K.8.E., M.A., D.Sc., HUD., F.R.S., etc., Acting: Chairman of
the Mawson Antarctic Expedition ; Director National Mutual Life Association of Australia,
Limited, and Union Trustee Co. of Australia, Ltd. u» n i«t,io
W. H. SWANTON, Esq., Managing Director William Crosby and Co., Shipowners and Merclia ~
Melbourne • Director of Commercial Bank of Australia, Limited, etc.
NEW ZEALAND LOCAL BOARD.
CAPTAIN MATTHIS ERIKSEN WIIG, Consul for Norway, The iCluff, N.Z.
FRANCIS TYSON, Esq., Shipping Company Manager, Dunedin, N^Z.
HAROLD LIVINGSTONE TAPLEY, Esq., C.M.G., Shipping Agent, Dunedin, N.Z,.
MANAGEMENT
It must b, conceded that the most Important facto, in such an industry a. wtoling is competent management, and to the Norwegians, a race to- in whaling annals, must be given the credit of
to^“V P tbr»i n SS„" most competent Norwegian management and a. a -suit the -Bit-, bare been secured of MAGNUS KONOW, Managing Director of the
Rosshavet Whaling Co., Ltd. „„ +v ,„ vpr „ „ llt -c. p t- Tf was \i a o-nus Konow, with the late Captain C. A. Larsen, who obtained
a license VOttSSZ ST& «2
Bankers
Solicitors
THE UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
THE NATIONAL BANK OF NEW ZEALAND, LTD.
MINTER, SIMPSON & CO., Hunter Street, Sydney.
BLAKE AND RIGGALL, 120 William Street, Melbourne.
MOORE, MOORE & NICOL, Stuart Street. Dunedin.
Auditors - -
Secretaries -
FLACK & FLACK, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, London.
H. IT. SYKES, Esq., A.I.A. (N.Z.), 150 Rattray Street, Dunedin.
C. P. EARLE & CO., Incorporated Company Secretaries, Cathcart House,
11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney. .
W. A. MITSON & CO., Public Accountants and Company Secretaries,
24 Water Street, Dunedin.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY
Th ' "vz&ss. ss.%*-«». •»* «* —«*.<». »,». «•*-» «w«
(a)
vhaling
director, who has been appointed tne uompany s agent. . . „ XT „ +„ „,v,„i„ ; n +hp T!n« Sen Dependence- The a
(b> beeif < approved >I by t that C
THE NEW COMPANY—ITS PLANS AND PROSPECTS
The application for the license baa
cruise to the Ross
£309,540
134,000"
£175,640
The Company’s license will be
ship of about. 12,000 tons gross register,
S2sW&W sss.“szsr>s sa whlch , t pertonam „ nta
REVENUE —The average catch of an existing factory ship of 12,000 tons register for the past two seasons sho\\s. at 1,• t. . P . . n .e cpoann , <? — x ~
EXPENDITURE —Captain M. E. Wiig, formerly Agent for two Norwegian Whaling Companies, has certified that in his opinion expenditure to r
Sea and back will not exceed ..
Surplus . . . . • ■ • ■ • • • -
(The surplus shown £175,540, represents over 50 per cent, on the issued capital of the Company.) r ,
ss ated in 1910 under Norwegian
lfl h prtm, a wouW n addover Tfo/oo “ pSfitTL? .hoJ above.’ This clearly that the increasing production of whale oil is unable to
COPG U that, whaling in the Ross Sea. is a very lucrative business. The formation of the Pacific and Ross Sea Whaling Company, Limited, offers the first opportunity to
the Australian and New Zealand public of participating in this great profit-eaimng industry. dividend-mving potentialities It is believed that profits earned will not be
It is seldom that the investing public is given an opportunity of acquiring shares at par in a company with such gieat dividend-paying potentialities, n is oeneveu i
taxable in Australia, since they w’ill be made outside the Commonwealth.
BIG PROFITS FROM WHALING
The following information regarding the operations of three of the leading Norwegian Whaling
P.nmnonioc
“VESTFOLD” WHALING CO., LTD., operates a land station
at South Georgia, and owns the Tanker s.s. Fedor Rogen, of
12,900 tons d.w., together with eight whalers.
Profits for the last five years have been as follows:
“SYDHAVET” WHALING CO., LTD., operates off the South
Shetlands and owns a Floating Factory, the s.s. Svend Foyn I,
of 5800 tons d.w., with tanks for 26,000 barrels of oil, together
with three whalers.
Profits for the last
Year Ended
31st July,
1924..
1925..
1926..
1927..
1928..
five years have
Barrels,
of Whale Oil.
16,830
22,050
24,540
16,410
36,250
as follows: —
Profit
Percentage Earned.
45 p.c.
69 „
40 „
2 „
52 „
“ROSSHAVET” WHALING CO., LTD., operates in the Ross Sea
and off the Balleny Wands, and owns two Floating Factories,
the s.s. Sir James Clark Roes, of 12,450 tons d.w., with tanks
for 50,000 barrels of oil, and the s.s. C. A. Larsen, of 17,200
tons d.w., with tanks for 75,000 barrels of oil, together with
eleven whalers.
Profits for the last five years have been as follows
Year Ended
31st July.
1924..
1925..
1926..
1927..
1928..
Barrels,
of Whale Oil.
17,000
31,850
39,630
73,270
128,000
Profit
Percentage Earned.
13 p.c.
54 „
19 „
8 „
69 „
As will be observed, the average net profits of each of these companies over the past five years was 74 per cent., 41 per cent, and 32 per cent, respectively.
It should be noted that the management of the Pacific and Ross Sea Whaling Co., Ltd., will be in the hands of Magnus konow, Managing Director of the Rosshavet Whaling Co.-
consistently earned large profits and paid high dividends since its inception in 1923,
company that has
OFFICIAL BROKERS
MELBOURNE: FRED TITONEMANN & CO., National Mutual Building, 395 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
SYDNEY: F. 0. FURNER & CO., Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE: A. H. HUDSON & SON, 303 Queen Street, Brisbane.
HOBART: H. W. BAYLEY & CO., A.M.P. Chambers, Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
LAUNCESTON: C. J. WEEDON PTY., LTD., St. Andrew’s Chambers, St. John Street.
ADELAIDE: ROBERT BRUCE & SONS, Brookman Building, Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
PERTH: SAW & GRIMWOOD, 16 and 17 New Zealand Chambers, St. Georges Terrace, I erttt.
NEW ZEALAND: HAMILTON & DAVIDSON, Dunedeselskap, Oslo.
NORWAY: GRONVOLD & SELMER, Kommanditaktiin, N.Z.
Complete Prospectuses are available from, and applications should be lodged with, any of the above or other members of recognised Stock Exchanges. It
on the principal Stock Exchanges of the Commonwealth of Australia and Dominion of Neiv Zealand.
intended to make application to list the shares


INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers’
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
Who Will Manage Your Estate?
At all times when an individual is appointed as Executor or Trustee
the uncertainty of human life is present. Who is better qualified to
administer your Estate than the
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED.
It cannot die, travel or disappear; has had over 40 years’ experience
in the management of all classes of Estates, and offers as security the
whole of its capital and assets —over £1,000,000.
Our Explanatory Booklet will be
sent to you Post Free on Request.
THOS. BUCKLAND
JAMES MOIR
F.
DIRECTORS:
N. YARWOOD
(Chairman)
0. E. FRIEND
Lt.-Col. T. F. RUTLEDGE
3. W. Barnes, Manager. E. V. T. Whittle, Asst. Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Can they Pull
j| Through?
Many concerns are falling by
the way, broken by high costs
and burdensome taxes.
Here’s a big co. that will
not pay even its unsecured
creditors 5/- in the £. The
pref. shareholders will lose
every penny.
Are you a shareholder? Have
you an insurance policy ? Ho
companies owe you money ?
Don’t lose your capital. Keep
yourself informed.
The leading Australian
authority on all these matters
is
“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY.”
AUGUST NUMBER NOW ON SALE
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM,
22/G. From Newsagents, or Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
INSURE WITH THE
Australian General
Insurance Company Ltd.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
11 7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
AGENTS WANTED WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
looked as if the co. would lose its other
agencies; but a way out was found by the
formation of half a dozen subsidiaries, which
took over the parent’s assets, excepting its
t.-p. debts and freeholds, the latter being
leased to the pups. The basis on which all
this was done was not disclosed, but the
figures do not suggest that there was much
goodwill involved.
That was in 1926, when depression in
the trade set in. That Conditions have
worsened since is obvious from the sharp
decline in profits. Last year two of
the subsidiaries which were not paying
their way were wound up, and two
more are to put up the shutters at an early
date. For the 12 months to June 30 gross
income (£55,768) fell away £30.307; exes,
were cut back £18,566, so tin l shrinkage in
tho final figure was £11,741. Nevertheless
the £26,211 netted was 16.7 p.c. on average
capital compared with 24.2, 35.4, 52.6 and
41.6 p.c. back to 1925. After attending to
the handful of profs.—there are only 425 of
them —24 points were knocked off the ord. div.,
reducing it to 124 p.c., and the £6625 that
remained advanced the lay-by to £11,680 in
excess of the £156,905 of paid capital. That
is apart from £11,150 reserved against doubt-
ful debts. Whether the position is as good
as, or better or worse, than it looks depends
largely upon whether the holdings in the sub-
sidiaries are worth their book value, and
that cannot be ascertained from the published
figures. The chairman gives his assurance
that the value of these shares is less than
one-fourth of the parent’s capital and re-
serves combined.
Here is the position as far as balance-sheet
figures disclose it:—
1920. 1927. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital. . £131,285 £150,905 £150,905 £150,905
Mortgage .. 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000
Liabilities . . 139,029 82,779 30,021 35,682
Freehold .. 03,472 04,178 72,460 72,6.10
Plant, ete. . . 4,372 100 90 113
Storks . . 106,491
Book debts, in-
vestments, ete. 253,814 345,216 290,278 321,320
Prepayments.. 783 217 179 156
Cash. ete. .. 7,783 22,127 31,120 7,703
The most important item there is that in
which book debts arc lumped with invest-
ments, including Commonwealth bonds, the
lot up £25,048 during the year. Subject to
bad debts, the financial position is obviously
very strong. The more or less liquids were
£283,347 in excess of the outside debt, in-
cluding the mortgage, at June 30.
But conditions in the industry have
changed completely. Nowadays the number
of used cars traded in part-payment is
nearly equal to the number of new cars
sold, which means that two sales have to
he made for one profit, as there is seldom
any gain on the disposal of the used article.
Also competition has pared down the margin
of profit by narrowing the discount from the
manufacturer; and the growth of taxation
and other charges has helped to pile up over-
head. Because of all this the board has
planned the future development of the busi-
ness largely along the lines of an investment
trust eo., and as the money from the liquida-
tions becomes available it is to be put into
securities outside the motor trade. Since
the. bulk of the co.’s funds will be so invested
it is proposed to change the name to Howard
Investment Co., Ltd.
<)f course, the co. will still control Metro-
politan Motors, Ltd., and Auto. Cars (Too-
woomba), Ltd., which handle the Chevrolet,
Buiek and other makes. But results are
likely to be much less spectacular than in
the past. The market, doubtful as to what
exactly the change will mean, pays 265. 6d.
for the scrip, which has a net tangible back-
ing of 41s. Bd. on paper. The return at
the current price is 9.4 p.c. on a 124 p.c.
div. basis, or 7-5 if the rate drops to 10 p.c.
On figures at June 30 a 10 p.c. div. will call
for only 4.8 p.c. on capital and reserves
combined.
Bawra.
The liquidators held assets totalling
£1,054,852 at June 30; £647.784, public
securities, etc.; £373.841, cash; £14.731,
sundry debtors; £18,496, freeholds. There
was £11,973 coming to creditors and
£96,405 (down £80,850 during the year) to
shareholders who had failed to claim previous
distributions. Also £352,102 was earmarked
for possible taxation charges. Various sur-
pluses total £593,514, and there was £B5B in
a contingency fund.
Income for the year amounted to £57,686.
Exes., including legal costs (£5868) and pro-
vision for interest on tax assessments
(£15,066), ran away with £56,058, leaving
a surplus of £lBlO.
The liquidators were successful in their
appeal to the courts against Federal and
State income-tax assessments, thus reducing
the combined hills from £315,850 to £57.159.
As a consequence there was a gain of £22,266
in interest charges, making the total reduc-
tion £280,957. The Commissioners have
since appealed against the decisions, and
until the matter is settled the final winding-
up payment to shareholders will be delayed.
At June 30 the ascertained surplus was a
shade over Is. per share. There was an-
other 6d. a share in the taxation reserve.
The freehold, of course, may he worth more
than its book value. The scrip is priced
around Is. Bd. on the market.
—f
Electrolytic Zinc.
This co. is to increase its Risdou (Tas.)
plant to give 30 p.c. more output. The idea
is to meet the position that will arise a
couple of years lienee, when the co. will have
to buy concentrate in addition to those
derived from its own mines, at prices which
threaten to be in excess of the figure now
paid under its contracts with the Broken
Hill cos. The extensions, expected to be
complete in about 18 months’ time, will lift
the zinc output to about 65,000 tons p.a.
They will also call for an extra 10,000 h.p.,
making the total for the Risdon plant
approximately 50,000 h.p. This load is the
backbone of the Tasmanian Government’s
hydro-electric undertaking.
Accounts for the year to June 30 are not
yet available, but the outturn of zinc was
50,000 tons. In addition large quantities of
silver-lead residues were shipped to Port
Pirie, where they are desired on account of
their flexing qualities. The co. has a net-
work of zinc concentrate roasters, which are
being operated in conjunction with sulphuric-
acid and superphosphate plants owned by
various fertiliser cos. And, of course, it has
its own acid and super, plants at Risdon.
Also, at Rosebery, splendid progress has been
made with the erection of its flotation mill,
which is to treat 3000 tons of galena-blende-
pyrite ore from the Rosebcry-Herailes mines
per week. A five-mile aerial tramway is to
convey the ore from the mines to the mill.
Shareholders are not likely to be called
upon to assist in connection with the present
programme.
The Papuan Mines Department, under
date July 25, has supplied the “Wild Cat”
with the following information concerning
Lake Wawaru goldfield:—
The gold find is in one of the most inaccessible
legions of this territory. Values are problematical,
and the area very restricted. The announcement of
the discovery created little interest locally, and
excepting the four original prospectors—Clunn,
Gough, Nelson and Adamson —it is doubtful whether
(here are any others on the field. The present route
to the find is from Fort Moresby to tile mouth of
the Biaru River, which can be ascended a short
distance in small boats or canoes. Then there is
a porterage of 11 days over rough tracks to the
Tinai Valley, at an elevation of about 9500 feet
above sea level. All stores, etc., are carried by
natives. The valley is thought to be an old lake
bed, with a diorite bar running across the exit.
Thus far no payable gold has been found by
washing, but the gravel in the old lake bed appears,
the prospectors say, to go about 7s. 6d. to 10s. a
yard. Prospecting is difficult, as the water table
of the old lake is about a foot from the surface
owing to the diorite bar.
The whole matter so far simply amounts to a
patch of gold found on a field proclaimed 20 years
ago. It may happen that large payable areas will
bo found there, but there is nothing to suggest it
at present. No Government official has visited the
find, so the information given above is only hearsay.
Miners will not be allowed to land in Papua
unless they are able to hand over to the Govern-
ment £2OO as a security against loss. Stores and
implements can be bought locally. There is, how-
ever, likely to be considerable delay in procuring
carriers and indenturing native labor. No white man
can work successfully single-handed on our alluvial
fields. Any miners in this territory who go up to
the field will probably each have a team of a dozen
natives as carriers and laborers.
# * * *
Edie Creek Pty., which controlled the
Royal-Glasson leases, the nucleus of the
Edie Creek field, announces that Ellyou
Goldfields Development has exercised its
option over the co.’s properties. Shareholders
in the Pty. co. will get 139 paids in N.G.
Goldfields, Ltd., for (Aery 100 held. There
will also be a cash distribution of over 3s.
per share.
* * * *
Great Northern is still in the limelight
on the Herberton (N.Q.) tinfield. The last
ore shoot has proved very good indeed, and
the mine is having a run which is reminis-
cent of old times. The output for June
was 50 tons concentrates, a record. The
winze being sunk from the 404 ft. level is
now 98ft. below, and is wholly in good ore
15ft. x Bft. at the bottom. Prospects seem
good for months ahead.
* * * *
Holletin Tin find is being offered by Dick
Osborne to Adelaide as a good thing, and
one of the smaller cos. there is expected to
nibble at it. One of the owners of the show
is Prowse, M.H.R.
* * * *
Lake View and Star (W.A.) is spending
money freely on development, and there. is
talk of big things to be done in ore-breaking
and golf-production. Meanwhile Chaffers’
new shaft is being deepened and operations
are being pushed ahead at depth in the
adjoining Golden Horseshoe section of the
property. Later the oil-flotation process is
to be tested under working conditions. Re-
cently The Bulletin announced that the
Lake View board was looking for a new
general manager. J. F. Thorn, of Consoli-
dated Goldfields, Nevada, has been selected
for the job. Present general manager H. E.
Vail will become the co.’s consulting engineer.
* * * *
Sudden Jerk (W.A.), where a rich patch
of gold was recently struck, got its name in
a curious way. When the now defunct
Bulong field near by was booming, three bat-
ters piled a three-horse cart with stores,
tools and explosives and went eastwards in
search of wealth. Some miles out the cart
capsized on a boulder, and one of the hatters,
who was riding on top of the load, was
suddenly jerked to the ground. lie cut his
band on a piece of gold-bearing quartz, from
which a few ounces were dollied. Later
thousands of ounces of gold were won in
the locality.
>•: sfc
A small but rich crushing from portion
of the old Crusoe reef has brought almost
forgotten Menzies (W.A.) to notice again.
At one time there were dozens of mostly
London cos. operating there, and Lady Shen-
ton and Queensland Menzies paid good divs.
for a while.
* * * *
London board of North Kalgurli (W.A.)
has decided to offer the remaining 65,249
2s. shares at a premium of 3d. Paid capital
is now £68,475. Any of the now shares not
applied for will be taken by an unnamed
crowd at 2s. lid. Recently the co. had
£17,940 in cash and investments.
* * * *
London-controlled Star Emerald Co.,
operating at Poona (W.A.), incurred the dis-
pleasure of the Stock Exchange and no-
thing was heard of its shares for a while.
Recently it was announced that a parcel
received by the board contained a stone
estimated to he worth £4O a carat, and that
lower-grade stones to the aggregate value of
£lOOO had been sold. Thus far there have
been too many fractured gems to make the
co.’s chance of success worth much.
•!= * S' *
New Phin Soon’s domestic troubles have
been complicated by the fact that the co.
is registered in Malaya, where less than one-
fifth of the shares are held. Most of the
balance are owned in Sydney, Adelaide and
Brisbane. Thus it came about that Malayan
shareholders recently deposed two of the
co.’s directors in Sydney. The latest develop-
ment is that Australian shareholders have
asked the present hoard in Malaya to resign,
failing which action is to be taken to dis-
place them. Then it is intended to transfer
the registered office from Penang to Sydney
and to elect a local board. Meanwhile Messrs.
Pedley, Mehan and Laurie (the latter repre-
senting S. Aus. shareholders) will control
activities at the Australian end. They are to
put forward a scheme to work the property
when matters in connection with the directo-
rate and registration .are cleared up.
The mine, an open-cast proposition bought
from Chinese owners in 1926. was recently
let on tribute. The workable area com-
prises about 2,600,000 e.y. of 1.41 b. dirt.
Costs were the hurdle at which profits fell.
To overcome the difficulty 11. Y. Seale, recom-
mended the use of electric shovels. Two
of these were ordered in America, but have
not been delivered owing to the state of
the co.’s finances. At present the co. has no
money beyond a trifle of petty cash. It
will take about £17,000 to put the mine in
working order again. Shareholders’ pros-
pects will partly depend upon the terms on
which the money can he raised. Paid capital
is £37,000.
* * st' '!'
The outstanding feature of the Malayan
tin dredging returns for the first half of
August is the recovery of 80 tons of t.o. from
75,000 c.y. by Changkat’s dredge. The value
was £lO,OOO, and the profit for the half-
month £7500. The average, 2.371 b. per e.y.,
was the best to date. Indeed the co. is shap-
ing well to establish a Malayan record for
monthly recoveries.
* * *
Anglo-Oriental Mining Corporation, which
absorbed Alluvial Tin’s interests, has com-
pleted the check-boring of Tanah Biji’s Ber-
juntai area. The results confirm A. B. Pen-
man’s previous estimates. The area tested
contains 115 million cubic yards, and a
further acreage is expected to bring the
total yardage to 150 million. The work was
done at Anglo-Oriental’s expense, and that
co. is to go 50-50 with Tanah Biji in a new
co. to he floated to work the property.
Three new Australian dredges- started dig-
ging in Malaya last month. That of Burmah
Malay’s second pup, Renong Consolidated,
turned over 116,500 yards for 24 tons, or
.461 b. to the yard, and should do better.
Rawang Concessions, an Alluvial Tin float,
had a short run for a turnover of 70.000
yards and a recovery of 20 tons, or ,641 b. to
the yard. Muang Tin, the first of Austral
Asiatic’s offspring, did not set the buckets
going until towards the end of July; they
will be running full time in a week or so.
Bottom should be reached by the middle of
September, but it is expected that the work-
ing face will not be fully opened out until
the end of October at earliest.
Takuapa, which has two large Australian-
built dredges digging on its original pro-
perty in Western Siam, recently ordered a new
Bucyrus-Eric dredge from William Adams
and Co., Sydney. This machine, which will
be fitted with 13 c.f. open connected buckets,
is scheduled to dig 125,000 c.y. in 550 hours.
It is to go on to Takuapa’s Ban Pru pro-
perty in Eastern Siam. It was to equip this
property that the co. recently issued £lOO,OOO
debentures. Ban Pru was bored to go 13
million c.y. averaging 13oz. t.o. and 70 p.e.
metallic tin.
* * *
Tin Options, N.L., a Melbourne concern,
has turned its attention to Yam pi Sound iron
deposits. The intention is to form a new eo.
to operate at Koolan Island, and at the same
time hunt up a market for the ore. It is
estimated that there is 77 million tons of
hematite available above ground, averaging
65 p.c. metallic content. This is to In’ worked
by quarrying and gravitational delivery to
the shin’s hold.
* :■' * *
Radium production in Belgium Congo in
1628 amounted to 40 grams compared with
28 in 1927 and 20 in 1925. It is reported
that the production is to be doubled. Since
the world’s requirements are largely sup-
plied by the Belgium Congo, an increase in
production may result in a decrease in price.
* * * ■ *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coi.uson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for I mentors' Guide. —Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
* * * *
In rugged country, where it is always extremely
difficult and often impossible to follow the contotu
of the ground when laying pipes, Pioneer Wood Pip
may be laid with comparative ease, at considerably
less cost. Durable, quickly and simply erected,
non-corrosive and unaffected by frost or heat, Pioneer
Wood Pipe possesses many outstanding advantages
over metal pipe. Write for illustrated catalogue,-
free on request, to Australian \\ ood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Burns Bav Koad (near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove,
N.S.W. ; and at Footscray, Victoria. —Advt.
# * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
**s ■ *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appl -
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane, in
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888). hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery.' Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—Advt.


a
m
fomw r
& H°
a
Of
k?„»
>1
' ■ ■: 9
yfc&fa*
•■"•VC:
fc£
ifllil
M
V*
jj3P
Atig
n 65
?h!
B*i I
c*
p 0
MMI
diP
V? ith
V^S/hY
sffl
ps^%£
fgp
W: ; -
tfg
gg
ss^SlP
nil
rOl
0^
A
Splendid
Book
for the
Home
An
Excellent
Teacher
It
Reveals
the
Marvels of
the
World
Contains
over
700
Illustrations
PRICE,
le/ post
1 Of“ FREE
THE WONDER BOOK
OF KNOWLEDGE
The marvels of Modern Industry and Invention.
The Interesting Story of Common Things.
The Mysterious Processes of Nature explained.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
Castlereagh & Market Streets, Sydney.
um
DANKS’ TILERS
MAKE SHABBY BATHROOMS NEW
That important room, the bathroom, is often
shabbier than the rest of the house. Danks’
Tilers will make it a bathroom of beauty, at a
relatively modest cost, too, and give you the
most modern tiles, laid and set in perfectly.
Similar tiling carried out for building fronts,
corridors, kitchens, etc., as well as floor tiling.
BATHS AND BASINS IN GLEAMING
WHITE OR THE NEW PINKS AND
BLUES
are also part of our bathroom equipment.
Prices are moderate—call in and inspect our
stocks without obligation. Showrooms in Sydney
and Melbourne.
MOSsSJIMVa NHOr
proptt
LTD..
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Australian Whaling Company,
Limited.
NOMINAL CAPITAL £750,000
Of which £415,000 in £1 Shares is now offered for
public subscription.
POINTS FOR INVESTORS.
1. The Australian Whaling Company, Limited, is the first registered
Australian Company having such comprehensive objectives.
2. The Australian Whaling Company, Limited, starts off with £120,000
in solid assets, together with other valuable rights and leases. It pays tor
no goodwill.
3. The Australian Whaling Company, Limited, has acquired a fourteen-
years’ license from the Western Australian Government, which is then
renewable.
4. The Australian Whaling Company, Limited, has acquired the fully-
equipped Norwegian Bay Whaling Station at Point Cloates as a going
concern. This property is accepted as one of the most profitable shore
whaling stations in the world. It has been successfully operated for the past
four years by a Norwegian company, with increased returns for each year.
£BO,OOO net profit for one year from this station alone.
5. The Australian Whaling Company, Limited, is seeking its capital
solely in Australia and New Zealand. The profits taken from Whaling y
Norwegian companies in the Southern Seas contiguous to Australasia run
into millions already.
6. The Australian Whaling Company, Limited, will operate the Point
Cloates shore station next season, which commences in June.
7. The Australian Whaling Company, Limited, recognises the skill of
the Norwegian Whaling Gunner, but this company will also recognise and make
room for the virile young Australian and New Zealander in its employment.
8. The Australian Whaling Company, Limited, is a truly Australian
Investment. You can put £25 or £lO,OOO, and your interests will be equally
safeguarded.
9. The Australian Whaling Company, Limited, has a threefold objective:
1. Whaling from an existing successful shore station at Point
Cloates, Western Australia.
2. Whaling from a station to be equipped on the East coast o!
Australia, in proved whaling grounds.
3. Whaling in the Ross Sea and Antarctic waters from a factory
ship based in Australia or New Zealand.
ALL OF WHICH PLACES AUSTRALIAN WHALING COMPANY, LIMITED,
IN AN ABSOLUTELY UNRIVALLED, UNASSAILABLE AND UNAPPROACH-
ABLE POSITION, THAT CANNOT BE CHALLENGED BY ANY AUSTRAL-
ASIAN OR FOREIGN ORGANISATION OPERATING OR INTENDING TO
OPERATE IN THE SOUTHERN SEAS.
DIRECTORS:
Sir ARTHUR A. C. COCKS, K.8.E., 63 York Street, Sydney.
LESLIE HAROLD HINKS, 19 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
DAVID G. STEAD, 16 Barrack Street, Sydney.
Four other Directors to be appointed by the Shareholders after allotment.
Prospectus may be obtained from any registered member of a Stock
Exchange in any Australian State or in New Zealand, or from the Secretary,
16 Barrack Street, Sydney.
ill
■: :g g
THESE ENCHANTING COCKTAIL GLASSES
and glass shaker are a sood example of the versatility
of Stuart Crystal craftsmen. Whether you want
hand=cut glass of classic shape / or the airiest whim of
the modern designer, you will find the loveliest crystal
Sears the registered name Stuart.
t
English Hand=made Crystal
Obtainable wherever beautiful glass is sold
// any illustration in “ THE
BULLETIN ” takes your fancy,
Write to the MANAGER, who will
quote you price for the original.


m
mms
*\x.
S 9
5
*9
O':
03
0^
O'
G*
c
v£
**
oy
x*
o 9
oy
SO
V
d
\p
c otv<*s>
e* vAc^ 6
\)cv eV
9
STRATEGICALLY
LOCATED
OFFICES,
—covering the Globe, offering
a seventeen-year-old advertis-
ing service and controlling a
truly formidable list of the
World’s foremost advertisers,
including:—
Dunlop Tyres; Perdriau Tyres and
Rubber Goods; Barnet Glass
Tyres, Tennis Balls and Bowls;
Abdulla Cigarettes; De Reszke
Cigarettes; Army Club Cigarettes;
Hudson Essex Cars; Edgeworth
Tobacco; Electrolux Cleaners;
Clever Mary; Shi-noleum; Reo
Cars and Trucks; United Artists;
McCollums Perfection Whisky;
Creamoata; Magnavox; Metro-
Goldwyn-Mayer ; Thos. A. Edison
Products; Phoenix Hosiery; Glaxo;
Sunspray Skim Milk; Durant
Rugby Cars; Harringtons; Sun-
Kist Salmon and Asparagus; Con-
dor Lamps; Celanese; Armstrong
Whitworth; Wearproof Hosiery;
Simplex Milking Machine; Dennis
Trucks; La Velouty de Dixor
Products.
These are a few of the accounts
serviced in Australia. We
extend to all principals a
cordial invitation for a pre-
liminary investigation of our
very complete advertising
facilities. No obligation will
be thereby entailed.
The Key to markets for any
products that you have for
sale anywhere in the Com-
monwealth or New Zealand.
The Key that opens up the door
which bars you from quantity
sales.
THE KEY that is always ready for
producers or agents having a product
which hangs fire or fails to find favor
with its trade.
You Produce—We Sell!
THE GOLDBERG ADVERTISING
AGENCY, LTD.,
WARWICK BUILDING,
HAMILTON STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phones: 8W2458, 2459, 2450 (three lines).
Also at Melbourne and Adelaide (Aust.); and at
Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin (N.Z.);
London and New York.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Risk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
They Satisfy
because they are made from 100
per cent, pure Virginia tobacco,
thoroughly matured. “Greys
have a reputation they cannot
afford to lose; they are therefore
consistent in their perfect quality.
“Greys” protect your palate and
leave no after taste. Let your
next smoke be a GREYS.
JHEGREYSJg
SIZE oT WO
SILKCUT VIRGINIA
DRAJP
LONDON
EYS
E® for 9d. CIGARETTES 2B® for E/®
Of course you
know “Greys
Heavyweights”
are now 1/- for
10; 2/- for 20.
Build With
WUNDERLICH
Materials
Guard against faulty work
obtain the highest value by in-
sisting on Wunderlich Building
Materials, which include: —
Art Metal Ceilings. Terra Cotta
Roofing Tiles, Asbestos Cement
(Durabestos) Building Sheets.
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
A BORIGIN
ALITIE'S
“McDuff”: “Th’ most intellergent dorg I
ever knew,” remarked the old chap in the
corner, "belonged to an ole cow cocky I worked
fer down in Gippsland. He was a halt-
bred kelpie with a stump of a tail about
four inches long. When he wus a pup he
useter sit. watchin’ us teachin’ a calf to
drink be stickin’ a finger in its mouth an
leadin’ its mouth into a bucket of milk.
Th’ calves useter be in a paddick about half
;t mile from th’ house, an’ when he got a
bit older Rover’s job was to bring them in
at feedin’ time. He tackled it at first _as
most dogs would, barkin’ an’ yappin’ behind
them an’ frightenin’ th’ wits outer them.
For this he useter get a beltin’. After he’d
got about a dozen hidin’s he muster realised
ONE OF THE' LEAN KIND.
“Parson do be turrible thin, boay.”
“Damme, iss! ’E wouldn' know whether ’e ’ad backache or pain in stummick."
th’ game wus no good to him. One evenin
th’ boss an’ me is standin’ Up be th’ cow-
yard just on feedin’ time whin we sees
Rover trottin’ down th’ paddick t’ bring th
calves in. He’s got a billycan full of milk
ir. his mouth. Th’ calves is in a bunch ’way
down at th’ far end of th’ paddick, an
Rover trots gently up to them, not runnm
in amongst them an’ barkin as usual. When
he gets close, up to them, he puts th’ billy-
can down, an’ sittin’ on top of it dips his
tail in. It comes out dl-ippin’ with milk.
Then he backs gently towards th’ calves,
an’ manoovers hisself till he gets his
stump in front of a calf’s mouth. Tli’
calf promptly £rabs it, an’ off he starts fer
home, th’ whole lot followin’. When tli
calves grew up an’ become milkers all
Rover had to do wus to go up to them, give
a bark, an’ wag his stump, an’ they’d foller
him to th’ yard. But in th’ end th’ boss
had to get rid of Mm. The cows was so
used t’ fullerin’ Rover that they couldn t
get out of th’ habit, an any that were sold
useter chase their new owners’ dogs, and
frighten th’ wits outer them, an’ th’ dogs
’d go fer their lives. Some of the cows got
killed follerin’ th’ dogs. It settled poor
Rover when one of his trained cows follered
a dog into a cocky’s kitchen, an’ knocked th’
cocky’s wife over an’ broke her leg, an’ my
boss had t’ pay damages.
>2: J ‘ ! #
“Animbra” (Newcastle Waters) : That the
Australian abo. is a cannibal is not a myth.
Among the tribes close to cattle stations and
other settlements there is no need for the
practice. Food being plentiful, the bread-
winner is able to supply her lord’s demands,
so cannibalism there is practically dead.
But if starvation threatens among the myall
tribes the best-conditioucd young lubrn
will soon go off in the bustle —so the semi-
civilised biuglii asserts. I have been told
also that it is not unusual to eat warriors
killed in warfare. I don’t think the abo.
would eat a white victim ; but torture must
be taken in good part. When Sullivan and
his mate were killed out west, it was the
mate that the niggers originally intended to
kill and they made a job of it; the victim’s
main fault, like that of other misguided
nigger-champions, lay in the fact that he
treated them with the sort of kindness which
inevitably leads to disaster. Sullivan
lingered for three days; evidently none of his
wounds was fatal, but his requests for water
were ignored. Could he have mustered sulli-
cieut strength to make the attempt lo
get it, lie would no doubt have received the
blow which would have mercifully termi-
nated his suffering. The two men were
branding calves when the attack was made
by the working boys.
:!: >t< * *
“Spadger”: McTavish and O Donnel were
neighboring coekies. They differed regarding
methods of rabbit destruction and spent; so
much time in arguing that the pest throve
and multiplied exceedingly on each holding.
When O’Donnel heard that the P.P. Board
had engaged a special rabbit inspector, In-
got the wind up and took out his poison
cart. At the boundary fence lie met McTavish
and the usual argument on poison versus
trapping ensued, O’Donnel becoming so ex-
cited that he bet the Scot a tenner that a
half-mile trail run under his own super-
vision in McTavish’s paddock would yield
a harvest of over 200 dead rabbits. The
bet was taken, McTavish inviting O’Donnel
to have a bit of dinner at the house after
he’d run his own trail and before the trail
for the bet was set. During dinner O Donnel
failed to notice the absence of Sandy,
McTavish’s son. Sandy,, however, was busily
engaged at his father’s behest in emptying
the poisoned pollard from the drum on
O’Donnel’s cart, washing it out, burying the
evidence, and refilling the drum with a
harmless brew of pollard and treacle. After
dinner the baits were put out in the presence
of McTavish and it was arranged that they
should meet early next morning to go round
together. Mac. and Sandy, secure in their
FAMILY HISTORIES.
EASTERN NEW GUINEA COOK-ROY: “You’re nothing but a low, common cannibal!
Why, it was your people who ate my old father."
WESTERN DITTO HOUSE-BOY: “Too right! And he was the worst-tasted old blighter
that ever went into our pots.”
knowledge, of the innocuousness of the
“poison” used, slept well and soundly, ho
did O’Donmd after having a word with his
three boys. At eight in the morning the
neighbors met again at the boundary and
started off on the trail. Sandy ran on ahead
but Larry, Pat and Mick O’Don nel limped
in the rear. Sandy came back with bulging
eyes. “There's thousands of rabbits, he
cried, and so there were. Thousands of
McTavish’s live rabbits frisked about after a
capital feed of pollard, and thousands of
O’Donnel’s dead ones lay nose to nose along
the length of the trail in the Scotsman’s pad-
dock, mute testimony to the industry of the
lads who had spent the night in carting them
over the fence.
* * =l= *
“John E.”: In 1900, at Lake Nash station,
just into the Territory from the
Queensland border, was born an
abo. who was one of Nature’s
queer freaks. By the time he
had reached his 20th birthday
he was known far and wide
throughout the Territory and
West Queensland as Nugget.
He was about 3ft., very bandy-
legged, and his whole body was
covered with hair. He was very
'intelligent, was a good musterer,
and taught many of the myall
niggers English. The boss used
to treat him as a mascot, carry-
ing him round as he would have
done a baby. Nugget’s life was'
a happy one. He'had a light
saddle made specially for him,
and his old horse Mack used to
lower his head so that the dwarf
could put the . bridle on him.’
The first and only time that he
left the homestead and went
bush the myalls killed him.
Deformities had no place in
their life.
❖
“Esau”: Jacky belonged to a celebrated
abo. football team, his pockets were empty
and he needed money for his expenses. So
he went to a farmer who wanted his late
•spuds dug. “Got-em any job, boss?” Jacky.
inquired “How much you charge dig-ern
spuds, Jacky?” was the reply. Jacky
scratched his head for a moment, then blurted
out, “Seven and tickpence a day for long
rows, Boss, and five bob for short rows.’
Jacky and the farmer started work, the
farmer digging the long rows. Saturday
came, and Jacky asked for Ins weeks wages
as he wanted to play with his team. “How
much I owe you, Jacky?” the boss queried.
“More ’n seven and tickpence, boss; ’bout
live pounds.” The boss handed out. the right
wages and told Jacky to let him know liow
his team got on. About eleven o’clock that
night the farmer was awakened by an
excited voice yelling out, “You in bed, Boss?
You in bed?” The farmer jumped emt and
flung open the window. “What’s the row
for?” he exclaimed testily. “Beat 'em, 20
to nil,” was the excited reply, “an’ they
wouldn’t have got the plurry nil only for
referee.”
* * * *
“O’ Jones”: When the first cow was
dragged ashore at our Solomon Island plan-
tation, great pains were taken to instruct
Spuds, the cook-boy, as to how the beast
worked. At the milking-shed (palm-thatch
and bamboo) the next morning Spuds had a
great audience of Kanakas. We had had
trouble in bailing the cow up on the first
day, and the boss’s language had left an
impression, for Spuds was explaining: “His
name ‘By —— I bail you up you .’
Him all-same bullumacow tin feller along
store. One day p’raps he die finish, bulluma-
cow shop along Brisbin push him along tin
feller send him up along islands sell him
along Mastah along store. He got
pockets along belly all-same kick-him-about
[football] all-same cocoanut.” Catching hold
of a teat, he continued: “You pullem this
feller catchem milk all-same tin feller along
store.” Then standing up and catching the cow
by the tail, he gammoned to screw it, then
added: “An’ you pullem this feller catchem
kickina guts.”
if * *
“Fernie”: The scientists of the Danish
yacht Dana, who lately conducted researches
in Maoriland waters, were equipped with
instruments that enabled them to plumb
those inky-black regions two miles below the
surface of the sea. It has been doubted
whether any save the most rudimentary
forms of life could exist under t'he tremend-
ous pressure of the sunless depths, but at
9000 feet the Dana investigators trapped
some examples of “deep sea devil,” a crea-
ture with an enormous mouth, constructed
almost entirely of bone, and “practically no
internal organs.” The weird things carry a
lamp, suspended above the head by a long
feeler. At depths of from 9000 to 10,000
feet “lantern fish’’ with rows of lamps along
their bodies were found, and also phosphores-
cent shrimps. The theory is that the lights
attract fish from the higher levels, which
fall prey to the grisly hunters lurking in
the depths.
(Continued on page 25.)
THE MAIL-CHANGES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Since now no teams in trim array
Go jogging o’er the ranges,
Along the roads to Faraway
That" coaches travelled night and day,
I miss the old mail-changes.
A sapling-yard was by the creek,
A hatter’s lonely station,
Where weary horses twice a week
(lave place to others fresh and sleek,
And found emancipation.
A bark-roofed hut beside it stood,
Or just a tent and galley ;
And all around the scented wood
Flung incense over many a rood
Of winding ridge and valley.
The groom, who knew his tricky route
In every kind of weather,
With none his pleasure to dispute,
Miidc friends and. pets of bird and brute
Of any fur and feather.
A coaching team his only care.
Except some broken traces.
And with slow-footed hours to spare
lie watched the long bush thoroughfare
Ofttimes for human faces.
So rovers of the wide ways found
A welcome at the changes,
And squatted on the grassy ground
What time the news and yarns went round
Of run and road and ranges.
The fire-glow in the misty night
Among the trees was cheery;
And often was that friendly light,
Sure-guiding like a beacon bright,
A haven for the weary.
N.S.W-
E. S. SOIRENSON.


/
S)
I
a
\
: “ : .
fete® |M»S I W-
l* HHJ >uH QteK
1 188$ ’
SIBISI®'-'
mm
f£#f* %*
■
<
-■
~.~..v ! r-
- 1'
mrnM
■ •'' ' :'■' '
|S l
m
-1 p!s C7}
>■
CHAKACTfI^
TO differentiate between things
possessing merely beauty as
the style of the hour interprets
beauty, and those possessing
character, is to differentiate
between most other cars and
Vauxhall.
The character which Vauxhall
possessed 25 years ago still exists
in the Vauxhall of to-day.
Always keeping step
with the growing de-
mand for luxury, for
style, for ever im-
provingperformance,
General Motors
[Australia] Pty. Ltd.
Brisbane : Sydney : Melbourne
Adelaide : Perth
9
jpl
' \ ■
.........- : '. ..
Vauxhall has yet maintained that'
rarest and most desirable asset...
character!
And it is to character —in prefer-
ence to the passing fads of fashion,
that the discriminating motorists
of the world pay tribute, by making
Vauxhall a foremost choice in the
fine car field.
Visit your local dealer —examine
Vauxhall’s character
and its luxury, and
have its performance
proved to you.
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL
DEALER.
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR
Convenient payments can be arranged on
the liberal G. M. A. C. Terms Plan.
n
he improved /u"uu
VAUXHALLSIX
-of a Lo
ue blooded line
METROPOLITAN DISTRIBUTORS:
Brisbane: Metropolitan Motors Limited,, Adelaide Street
Adelaide: Mann's Motors Limited, Franklin Street
Sydney: Boyd Edkins Limited, Phillip Street
Perth: Master Motors Limited, Milligan Street
.H?


NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting- Gelatine
Dynamite
Bafety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Hadfields
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS —DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadfields’ Mansanese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and 1
Foundries f
Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W,
Bassendean, Perth, W.A.
Branch [
Office J
422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Vic.
T. & G. Building, Brisbane, Q.
rr rfrW
rr rrr c“c
irrrr c-c
rrrr c~c
rrrr rc
rrrr r*c
Spring calls
Spring calls you to a very delightful city
and a most satisfying hotel —to Sydney and
“The Australia,” respectively. You are
assured a delightful holiday, luxurious com-
fort, and flawless attention to your
personal needs and preferences.
Ask for booklet.
Telegraphic, Cable and
Wireless Address:
“ Austraotel"
Sydney
Capital Paid -up
£422,100
Jw
Australia
THE HOTEL OF THE COMMONWEALTH
SYDNEY
“Animbra” (Newcastle Waters) : “Bad
Australian” (B. l/5/'29) is out when he
says that the blaekfellow does not eat
goanna. For some time after a good general
rain has sent the bigger game to the four
winds, goanna is practically the only food in
some parts, and is highly prized not only by the
natives but by many whites —I myself would
not miss the chance to get some of the
tender, white meat. Before cooking, a small
hole is made behind the shoulder and a short
length of the innards removed. Our niggers
keep their mongrels solely for goanna hunt-
ing. They are useless otherwise. Snake, if
in good condition, is a favorite nigger food,
but most whites find it too oily.
* V # *
“Wingella” (Darwin) : Two of my sons
went for a day’s picnic the other week,
and, at their request, I gave them a
tin of salmon to open for their dinner.
At night, when they returned home,
I asked them how they liked the sal-
mon. “Oh, we gave that to the dogs,”
said Ten-years-old. “Well,” I began, aghast
at the waste of good food, “you’ll wait a
long while for more” when Twelve-years-
old burst out indignantly: “We had to
give them something, mother; why, they
treed two of the loveliest and fattest goannas
we have eaten for a long while. After they
had given us that bonzer feed, we had to
give them something for their dinner.” Yet
“Bad Australian” says that blackfellows
don’t eat goanna !
*c *
“Mr. X.”: Jackie, our station abo., could
not understand why, in a chase, his dog was
always beaten by the boss’s, which had a
stumpy tail. He mentioned the matter to
the boss, who advised: “You cut him tail
off—that make him go plenty quick.” After
serious thought Jackie decided to try the
curtailment plan and docked his mong.,
which gave a yelp and streaked away at a
THE SECRET.
HUSBAND (checking the gas account): “Pretty hot, isn’t it!”
WIFE (the light of discovery in her eye ): “Gee, yes! That’s why they call them
hot baths.”
rare pace. With tail in one hand and toma-
hawk in the other, Jackie intently watched
the dog until it disappeared in the distance
never to return. Then he sorrowfully
remarked: “Too short.”
* * * *
“Wang” : The conversation had got round
to the subject of tall trees. Somebody had
mentioned the lofty trees of Gippsland and
California when Larry the Liar chipped
in. “Call them tall trees?” he scoffed, “W hy,
them’s on’y bushes compared to the high
trees what grow in North Queensland. Me
mate Bill Dobbs an’ me took a contrac
up there once fellin’ timber for a sawmill.
One day we comp on a tree growin’ on th’
side of a hill. It was that high we couldn’t
see th’ top of it; but it was straight-grained,
and worth a small fortune. We started on
it on a Monday mornin’, an’ on Friday
afternoon of th’ same week we dropped
her. She fell towards th’ top of th’ hill.
About half an hour later we’re sittin’ down
havin’ a smoke when up comes a wild-eyed
bloke on horseback. He starts roarin’ at
us somethin’ about damages, an’ goiu’ on
something awful. We don’t know him from
a bar of soap. ‘Who th’ hell are you, any-
way?’ asks Bill, gettin’ riled. ‘l’m th’
bloke what lives on th’ far side of that hill,’
he says. ‘Well, what’s that gotter do with us?’
asks Bill. ‘Ev’rythin,’ th’ bloke yells. ‘I want
damages from yer.’ ‘What for?’ asks Bill.
‘That tree y’ just chopped down,’ th’ chap
says, ‘th’ top of it’s fell on me stable an’
killed two of me best horses.’ It was a
fact, too, an’ we had ter cough up.”
* * * *
“Copabella”: In the quiet of the Out-
back equally with the warmest strike-centre
you never know whether you will wake up
dead or alive. I was camped on a station
boundary with two hacks, which, owing to
the drought, had to have their inadequate
grass ration helped by a _few handfuls of
chaff night and morning. This
brought them hanging about the
tent at dawn. One morning
some sixth sense led me to roll
from my bunk and out from
under the tent just as two nags
flailing side-chains and hobbles
came down on the bunk and
rolled over in a flurry of calico,
clothing and cooking utensils,
from which they had to be
extricated with a knife and
tomahawk. Playing together
while awaiting breakfast, one
animal had driven the other
back against the tent in such
a way that the side of my
stretcher caught him behind the
hocks and brought him down
sitting where I bad lain. The
bed crashed with him in it, and the other
beast, unable to check his rush, tumbled on
top. I built a break after that.
$ * * *
“Kune”: For the first time in the history
of Maoriland dogs are being used for over-
land transport of material. When the
danger of closing ice forced the Byrd expedi-
tion’s supply-ship Eleanor Bolling back to
the base at Dunedin, a team of huskies
missed reaching their winter home. To give
them congenial surroundings they were trans-
ferred to the slopes of Mount Cook, where
they are being used to transport material
for* the erection of a rest-hut high up on the
majestic shoulder of the big white hump.
* * * *
“Questo”: The most piebald crew I have
ever seen —in fact, a sort of colored league
of nations was
aboard a lugger
that blew into Cook-
town’s harbor a few
weeks back. It had
a crew of 20-odd,
which consisted
of Torres Strait
islanders, mainland
boys, Japs, Malays
and Manilamen,
crossbreeds be-
tween the three
last-named and the
abos., two New
Guinea boys, one
Solomon Islander,
a native of the
Laccadive Islands
(Arabian Sea) and
one Maori. Arabs
are few and far
between on the
trochus-shell lug-
gers, and I think
this Maori must be
the only one em-
ployed in the
marine industries
of our Far North.
“Yurri” • The hut wanted a corkscrew,
and despatched Jacky to the station store- <
keeper. Jacky forgot the name of the thing,
but he knew what was wanted. xou
know,” he said —“tin-opener belonga bottle.
“Mundowie”: In our little Mulgatown
cemetery nearly all the cared-for graves are
fenced-in with inverted bottles. There are
stacks of empties behind the pubs, and hun-
dreds more scattered about the district; and
as none of the old warriors were, temper-
ance advocates, it seemed appropriate that
they should have a halo of bottles when
they departed—anybody could help himself
to as many as he wanted. But when 1 Stut-
tering Alfred was planted in the sacred spot
there was a long hunt for suitable material
to enclose his tomb. Alfred was a Reehabite,
and his relatives didn’t like the idea of sur-
rounding him with rum-, or brandy-, or
whisky-bottles. Most of local dead-
marines were of these denominations, and
Alfred was only suitably fenced-in, nearly
two years after the funeral, when one of
the publicans invested in a couple of cases
of ginger-beer, in stone bottles, for a tem-
perance picnic.
* * * *
“Pick”: Wild animals rarely vary their
one plan for escaping enemies, and the cun-
ning hunter makes use of their tricks to
circumvent them. When a shadow appears
on the river-bank a platypus instantly sub-
merges, but keeps his prominent nostrils just
above the surface to get air. The shooter
stuns him by the concussion of a rifle bullet
fired into the centre of a widening circle of
ripples on the wafer. Curlews trust to
camouflage. They crouch among logs and
dry branches with outstretched necks and
wings awry, and may easily be mistaken for
billets of dead wood. The gunman therefore
searches every collection of fallen timber in
his track. A fleeing paddymclon will dart
through the first brushwood thicket, squat
for a short time, and then dart back again.
His trick fails when he meets his knowing
pursuer there waiting for his reappearance.
Foxes or hares race away, and. when they
have thrown off the chase, always circle
round the hills back to their starting-point.
The dogs arc allowed to follow them, but the
hunter stations himself for the quarry s re-
LOOKING FORWARD.
MOTHER: “Don’t bring that one in, dear. That’s a china egg."
LITTLE GIRL (putting the egg back in the nest ): “Can I have it if it’s a tea-set when
it comes out?”
turn. Wild ducks and other ground-nesters
counterfeit lameness and a broken wing to
lead an intruder from their domain.
Stumbling and fluttering, they invite cap-
ture, but keep just out of reach until their
hatchery has been left behind. Then they
fly away. Except to a novice the stratagem
only serves to locate the nest.
,1; * * *
“Avon”: Maorilanders, though they prize
whitebait as a delicacy—a properly-fried
whitebait fritter is a feast for the gods--
haven’t until recently made any systematic
attempt to probe the many mysteries con-
nected with the life history of these tiny
creatures. In recent months, however, the
Chief Inspector of Fisheries, A. E. Hefford,
has made some experiments, and as far as
they have gone he reckons they prove that
the whitebait are unique ambng fish species,
and possibly aren’t fish at all. He has
hatched out the ova in salt, brackish and
fresh water —the whitebait don’t seem to
care what sort of water they live in. Beyond
this all that is known is that the midgets
usually spawn at the mouths of rivers, where
there’s a mingling of salt and fresh water,
and that as soon as the young can swim they
migrate up-stream. What happens to them
when they attain adult whitebaithood ? The
duration of their life and the extent of their
growth are matters not yet scientifically
determined.
* * * *
“Three Pipper”: Greenhide Bill was a
camel-whacker on the W.A. goldfields.
Though he could not write, he had more than
a fair command of words —and not all of
them words that bullocks understand either.
Greenhide’s electoral card had once to be
filled up by someone else. “What, shall I
put your occupation down as?” inquired his
friend —“what about ‘camclologist’?” “Camelo-
logist be damned!” grunted Greenhide. “I’m
a dromedarian!” Which was more correct
; than the other, anyway.
RESURGENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The wattle, east and nor’ward,
Unfurls her colors brave,
Like yellow foam flung forward
By winter’s breaking wave,
I know the leafy mazes
Are beautiful to-day
Where the old river lazes
Its silvery, solemn way.
Adown the range it travels
With many a twist and turn,
Between the clean-washed gravels
And clinging lady-fern.
Through orchard aisles and fuller
Spaces of glade and glen,
Her lovely notes of color
Spring softly pipes again.
So I, that long had broken
My heart on stones of grief,
Rejoice, with the unspoken
Promise of flower and leaf
Where skies, long dark and tragic,
Grow soft, remembering
Tbe old eternal magic
Of young immortal spring.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
To buy novels “Called Back” and “Never More.”
-1781.
To buy copy of “Australian Nursery Rhymes”
(reprinted from Tiie Bulletin). —1784.
To buy copy “The Billy Book,” by Low, published
N.S.W. Bookstall Cos., 1918.—1780.
To buy from N.S.W. country sawmill, discarded
saw-bench, good condition. —1742.
To buy copy National Geoghaphical Magazine,
June; also Literarv Digest, June 15. —1856.
To buy “Australian Birds’ Nests and Eggs” (two
volumes), by A. J. Campbell.—lßs4.
To buy early editions Kipling, or will exchange
early Australian books.—lßs7.
Partner for mixed farm, 250 acres, five miles
Kempsey (N.S.W.) butter factory.—lß3s.
Young lady, Tas., wants employment, Vic. or
N.S.W., as chauffeur or gardener.—lß4l.
S.A. country showman requires services of blind
musician and singer, organ player preferred, to play
at dances, etc. Long engagement, good salary.—
1793.
Competent cook and housekeeper requires position,
Sydney preferred.-—1827.
By young man (24), N.S.W., position as station
book-keeper. Any State. —1826.
Professional man, convalescing, wants part- or
whole-time employment, Vic., six weeks from August
24. —1830.
Scotch lady, Vic., would care for children or
perform other < duties in return for passage or part
fare to Britain. Good sailor.—lß2l.
Writer, Sydney, wanting colonial experience, wishes
position on largo station, companion, help, or nursery
governess.—l 769.
Young Scotchman, married, 12 years’ farming
experience Scotland, also short time on land here,
unemployed six months, urgently wants job any-
where. —1757.
Trained nurse, N.S.W., with beautiful country
home, grounds, bracing climate, will take charge
of child or baby, delicate or otherwise.—l 747.
Scotchman (30), commissioned officer during war,
worked as surveyor’s ehainman in M.L., tin pros-
pecting in N.S.W., at present employed on sheep
station, wants j0b.—1767.
Accountant (29), experienced, strong and healthy,
wants position anywhere, Pacific Islands or New
Guinea preferred, refs. —1759.
Ex-service man, N.S.W., single, healthy and
willing, seeks employment. Ten years mixed farm-
ing ; go anywhere or do anything.—l 800.
Two youths, N.S.W., want positions Pacific Islands.
—1798.
Man, Vic., several years’ experience die-casting,
urgently seeks j0b.—1794.
Lady (N.S.W.), wants position as shearers’ cook,
N.S.W. station.—l 792.
Storekeeper, Sydney, 25 years’ experience drapery,
boots, fancy goods, ironmongery, N.S.W. northern
rivers and Q’land, seeks employment. Go anywhere
country, distance no bar.—l77B.
Young man, Vic., with car, wishes to meet an-
other with £SO or more, view trip through North
Australia, working en route. —1774.
To borrow words and music of monologues
“Earthenware” and “The Game of Life.”—lß32.
Words of “Wraiths,” published during war or
shortly after; it dealt with a kiss, a rose and a
promise.—l 797.
Words of recitation describing conversation between
Daniel O’Oonnell and an apple-woman.—l7B2.
Toung lady, Vic., would like to correspond with
readers over 18, anywhere except Vic. —176 b.
Whereabouts of William Johnstone, born Echuca
East (Vic.), last heard of at Wagga (N.S.AV.).
Sister Lizzie anxious. (To Mrs. L. Alexander, 159
Keele-street, .Collingwood, Melbourne.)
Information Sought.
(1) Weight of the heaviest submarine
afloat? (2) How many will it carry, and
how long can it stay under water? —l779.
(1) The British submarine XI has a
normal surface displacement of 2780 tons
and a submerged displacement of 3600
tons. (2) The crew consists of 121
officers and men. If is reported that
XI is capable of remaining submerged
for 21 days. This is the largest submarine
at present in commission, but it is known
that both Prance and the U.S.A. have larger
vessels under construction or completed.
(1) Why was Java taken by the British
during the Napoleonic wars? (2) llow long
did the British hold it? (3) Why was it
restored to the Dutch? —1575.
(1) Because Java was a Dutch colony and
Holland was incorporated by Prance in 1811.
It was taken from an allied French and
Dutch army under the French Gov.-Gen.
Janssen. (2) For five years. (3) Its
importance not being fully realised, it was
exchanged for Dutch possessions elsewhere.
Gan the directors of a: co-operative- co.
legally make donations out of the co.’s funds
to employees, hospitals, etc.? — 1764.
-Yes, unless they are expressly barred by
the articles, or by a resolution properly
carried by shareholders, or unless the dona-
tions were not made in good faith. They
would not be made in good faith if, for
example, they were made to secure a per-
sonal gain to the directors or certain of them.
(1) Are probate duties fixed, by law? (2)
Can they be altered? (3) What are the
charges, Qland State and Federal, on
estates of £IOOO, £2OOO, £3OOO, £4OOO,
£SOOO. (4) What a\re succession duties? —
1833
(i) Yes. (2) Yes, by statute. (3) State:
Where the net value of the estate does not
amount to £3OO, nil; £3OO and upwards, £1
for every £IOO or part thereof. Federal:
Where total value, after deducting all duties,
exceeds £IOOO, £1 p.c.; where it exceeds
£2OOO, £1 p.c., together with an additional
percentage of l-sth of £1 for every £IOOO
or part of £IOOO in excess of the sum of
£2OOO, hut so that the percentage shall not
exceed £ls. Where the estate passes to a
widow’, children or grandchildren, these
rates are subject to a rebate of one-
third. (4) Succession duty is a first
charge, or debt, due to the Crown on the
interest ( i.e ., portion of the estate) of si
successor —'that is, person beneficially entitled
to property upon the death of its owner.
In Queensland it is payable on all estates
the value of which amounts to or exceeds
£2OO, the rates being determined by value
and the nearness or remoteness of the rela-
tionship, if any, of the successor to the
deceased person. They rise from 1 p.c. to
20 p.c.
Information about passenger steamers
running on the Murray River. Name and,
address of company, and does the service run
during the summer months? —1506.
Murray steamers are not running at pre-
sent owing to the low state of the river,
though the late rains may alter the situation.
The season usually extends from about the
middle of July till the end of November, but
it is as yet impossible to say when they
will start this year. The steamers do
not run during the summer. Particulars
as to sailings and fares are contained in
booklet issued by the Government Tourist
Bureau, 5 Queen’s-walk, Melbourne.
(1) What security has a private money-
lender over a N.B.W. public servant? (2)
Would the lender have first claim on. super-
annuation money in the case of death? (3)
Is a p.-n. the safest method of making a
loan?-- —1802.
(1) No more security than in the cases of
other citizens. Orders to moneylenders on
salary are now not recognised. (2) No.
superannuation payments cease" at death and
the lender would rank simply as a creditor
in the estate. (3) It is a convenient way
but carries no security with it. Money
lent on personal security rests on character.
What size boat would be necessary to con-
vey a party of 15 to 20, with camp gear
and provisions for three months, from Syd-
ney to Macquarie Island? Cost of charter-
ing boat? Literature and any other infornia-
tion that would be of help? —l4lo.
Macquarie Island is under the jurisdiction
of the Tasmanian Government, which of
late years has closed it to all hunting. Before
any action is taken on the lines suggested,
it would be wise to apply for authority to
visit the island. The matter of a boat
would prove difficult; the Ornithologists
tried to arrange a visit some years ago, but
were unable to do so. The island is difficult
of access, and the last sealing company
engaged there lost numerous vessels. Possibly
a coasting steamer of about 300 tons would
be the most convenient for the size of the
party you suggest, but in view of the present
state of the Australian mercantile marine
it is doubtful if such a boat would be avail-
able unless at high cost. There is a good
account .of the island in the Papers and
Proceedings of the Royal Society of Tas-
mania—Douglas Mawson wrote it—and
detailed particulars can be obtained from
the Director of the Museum, Hobart.
(1) Is there much rabbit-trapping in
England? About how many men would
make a living at it? (2) Names and
addresses of a few British makers of rabbit-
traps?—l7sß.
(1) A certain amount of trapping goes
on in the moorland districts, and some rabbit
catching is done also with the aid of ferrets,
the rabbits being either shot or picked up by
hand. Perhaps a few hundreds in all Eng-
land make a living in this occupation; it is
impossible to say. (2) T. L. Grosvenor, 12
King-street, Wolverhampton; Henry Lane,
Eagle Works, Wednesfield, Wolverhampton;
T. Newton and Cos., Hargrave, Huntingdon ;
W. and G. Sidebotham, Graisley Works,
Wednesfield, Wolverhampton.
(1) I wish to transfer to my wife and
daughter a small house in Tas. How can
Ido it without going to a lawyer? (2)
Copt? (3) What is the minimum amount
in Tas. on which death duties are levied? —
1573.
(1) If under the Real Property Act you
can make the transfer yourself. Obtain
the forms from the Lands Titles office,
Hobart, cost being Is. each, and inquire as
to procedure.. (2) Cost of registering the
memorandum of transfer where value of
estate does not exceed £IOO, 55.; of greater
value but not exceeding £SOO, 10s.; if ex-
ceeding £SOO but not exceeding £IOOO, 20s.
(3) Where estate exceeds £SOO but does not
exceed £IOOO, £2 per cent. If whole of pro-
perty passes to widow, widow and children,
or to children, no duty where the aggregate
amount, after deducting all debts, does not
exceed £IOOO.
How is the card game “Beggar Mu Neigh-
bor” played? —l6Bs.
The full pack is divided equally between
two players, and the cards are held with the
backs upwards. The first player lays down
his top card face up, and the opponent plays
his top card on it, and this goes on alter-
nately as long as no court-card appears;
but if either player turns up an ace or a
court-card, his opponent has to play four
ordinary cards to an ace, three to a king,
two to a queen, one to a knave, and when he
has done so the other player takes all the
cards on the table and places them under
his pack. If, however, in the course of this
playing to a court-card, another court-card
turns up, the adversary has in turn to play
to this, and as long as neither has played a
full number of ordinary cards to any court-
card the trick continues. The player who
gets all the cards into-his hand is the winner.
(1) To what wages is a N.S.W. station-hand
over 21 and doing lopping, repairing fences,
mustering and other odd jobs entitled
under the State award? (2) If he does wool-
pressing and penning-up during shearing
(there are'three shearers) what wages is he
entitled to tinder the State award? —lsßl.
(1) 84s. per week without keep, or 565.
per week with keep. (2) The time-work
rate to be paid to employees on wool-pressing
is £5 18s. per week with keep, and for an
employee acting as shed-hand and generally
useful at the shearing, £4 10s. per week
with keep. Where an employee has mixed
functions, as wool-presser and shed-hand, he
must be paid the higher rate.
How can I cut doivn earthenware demi-
johns so as to make butter-coolers, etc.? —
1547.
Try filling them with water to the level
required, tying a piece of string round the
jars at the height of such level and lighting
the string; preferably string that has been
soaked in some inflammable liquid. As an
alternative, place a hot piece of wire round
the jars at the level of the water. The heat
caused by the lighting of the string or the
placing of the piece of wire should cause the
jars to crack.
(1) A, who provides a sawmill plant and
wood, desires to make a contract with B
and C to draw and cut firewood. Can such
a contract be made without any accident lia-
bility to A? If so, how? (2) Are all sawmill
plants subject to Government inspection?
(3) Does the N.S.W. Local Government Act
permit a subdivider to make subdivision
roads only equal to the shire road to which
access is sought? (4) Is a shire council the
sole authority in regard to the specifications
of subdivision roads? —1587.
(1) It would be difficult if not impossible
to draft any legal form of contract that
would wholly exclude A’s responsibility for
accidents in using the plant. (2) Yes. (3)
Sec. 229 (2) provides that: “In the case of a
new residential road the council may on
such terms as it deems proper permit the
opening of a residential road of less than
the standard width.” (4) Yes, when acting
within the powers delegated to it.
(1) How to make 2 gallons of bungalow
brown paint? (2) How to make 2 gallons
of paint as under coat ? (3) How to make
putty? —l3l3.
(1) If you are not familiar with the pre-
paration, better use a prepared paint. How-
ever, for 2 gallons of bungalow brown, take
71b. red oxide in oil, 11b. burnt turkey um-
ber in oil, 31b. black in oil, Igal. raw lin-
seed oil, -Jgal. boiled linseed oil, \ pint tere-
bine, l pint turpentine. Quantities given
are approximate, and would depend on the
quality of the colors used. They should be
well mixed together, the liquids added slowly
during stirring, so as to ensure thorough
amalgamation. (2) For an undercoat, omit
the boiled linseed oil, and increase the
quantity of turpentine to igal. (3) Whiting
should be mixed with raw linseed oil to the
consistency of a stout paste.
(1) Who are eligible for the course of in-
struction in tailors' cutting at the East
Sydney Tech.? (2) How long does it take?
(2) Books used by students?— l77o.
(1) Persons not less than 16 years of age
who have had at least two years’ experience
as a tailor, cutter, trimmer or presser; also
journeymen cutters who desire to increase
their efficiency. (2) Three years, necessitat-
ing attendance on two evenings each week.
(3) “International System of Garment Cut-
ting.” by Thornton; “Review of London
Fashions,” by Thornton’s Institute; “Minis-
ter’s Gazette Fashions,” by Minister and Cos.;
“Twentieth Century of Ladies’ Garment Cut-
ting,” by Hopkins.
(1) If industrial arbitration goes will the
N.S.W. Workers' Compensation Act go with
it? (2) A table of specific injuries for which
lump sums are payable under the N.S.W.
Workers’ Compensation Act? —1496.
(1) Repeal of both Commonwealth and
State arbitration measures would not affect
the N.S.W. Workers’ Compensation Act. (2)
Loss of either arm or of the greater part
thereof, £675; loss of lower part of either
arm, either hand, or five fingers of either
hand, £600; loss of a leg, £600; loss of the
lower part of a leg, £562 10s.; loss of a foot,
£525; loss of sight of one eye, with serious
diminution of the sight of the other, £675 ;
loss of sight of one eye, £375 ; loss of hear-
ing, £600; complete deafness in one ear,
£200; loss of a thumb, £225; of a forefinger,
£150; of joint of a thumb, £13.2 10s.; of
little finger, middle finger or ring finger,
£ll2 10s.; of a toe or the joint of a finger,
£9O; of a joint of a toe, £75. “Loss of”
includes “permanent loss of the use of.” Any
sum paid as weekly compensation is deducted
from the lump sum, and lump sums are pay-
able only if the worker so elects.
The difference between a solicitor, a bar-
rister and a lawyer, as understood in N.S.W.?
—1733.
A barrister takes rank above a solicitor,
from whom he is distinguished by practising
as an advocate in the superior courts and
as an advising authority to the solicitor on
questions of law. Asa rule the Judges in
the Supreme and District courts are drawn
from the ranks of the Bar —the collective
body of barristers. In some of the States,
though not in N.S.W., barristers and soli-
citors may practise in either capacity. A
solicitor is« the practitioner who comes, in
direct touch with clients. His principal
duties are to advise them, carry their cases
into court, prepare legal documents, trans-
act such matters as the conveyance of pro-
perty, the preparation of contracts, the
making of wills, and so on. He prepares
briefs of causes for the barrister in the
higher courts, and as a rule acts as advo-
cate only in the lower courts. Lawyer is a
generic expression applied .to the body of
persons qualified to practise law, but in
popular use is more frequently applied to
solicitors, since they come more directly in
touch with the public.
(3) Objects of the English-Speaking
Union? (2) Qualifications for membership?
(3) Subscription? (4) Address of Sydney
branch? —3580.
(1) To promote good-fellowship arid
understanding among the English-speaking
democracies of the world. (2) Membership
is open to British subjects and citizens of
the U.S.A., men and women alike. (3) A
guinea a year; this includes Landmark, the
official monthly journal, which is posted
direct to members from London. (4) Frazer
House, 42 Bridge-street.
(1) The six leading sheep-breeding coun-
tries, with number of sheep in each? (2)
The six leading cattle-rearing countries, with
estimated totals? (3) The six leading maize-
growing countries? —1756.
The figures are for 1926: (1) Australia,
104,267,000: Soviet Russia, 89.707,000;
U.S.A.. 43.909.000: India, 36,817,000: Argen-
tina, 36,209,000; South Africa, 35,570,000.
(2) India, 149,189,000; U.S.A., 57 521 000•
Soviet Russia, 53,165,000; Argentina'
37.066.000: Brazil 34,271.000; German J
17,133,000 ; Australia was ninth on the list
with 11,9b3,000. (3) U.S.A., Argentina
Brazil, Rumania, Jugo-Slavia and Soviet
Russia.
Brief Answers.
Clifford: On the facts disclosed, n 0.!..
L. 8.: You might try a preparation called Smoothon.
F.W.G.: Not listed on any Exchange. Your
best chance (if any) of selling is through the
secretary. Of course the shares were a gamble in
the first place... .H.8.M.: Burton’s translation is only
obtainable in American pirated editions. Mardns'-
translation is highly spoken of by scholars. Dymocks
and Angus and Robertson have it H.G.: As you
are already in receipt of a N.S.W. widow’s pension
you are not entitled to family endowment J.T.V. :
(1) Don’t know of any shearing contractor who
employs shearers under those conditions. (2) Tas.,
Nov. and Dec.; N.Z., Dec., Jan., and Feb.....’
The "Mug: Get a solicitor to write to your debtor
demanding payment and stating that in default you
will take legal proceedings to recover the debt
If tlie case goes to court, your success will depend
on tiic evidence of indebtedness you can produce.
. ... J. 5.8.: Whilst usually there are no opportunities
of securing casual employment on Norfolk Island,
the banana industry there has of late made consider-
able progress and it is likely that conditions have
altered. Write Secretary, Planters’ Assoc., Norfolk
Island, for particulars... .J.R.R.: Never heard of
them before; their home is a nest of turf-tipsters,
private detectives, etc J.P.: Position no good, but
your money isn’t all lost. You have no hope of getting
it back by legal proceedings unless you can prove
that the actual prospectus made false statements
L.0.G.: Your money is gone J.W.P.: Your present
home could not be unproved on for your chest
trouble. Arthritis is a disease which has periods
of remission and intensity. There is no known cure,
but many people are considerably relieved by various
forms of treatment. Diet makes very little difference,
and the springs mentioned have not been proved
successful... .A.M.R.: To. what use do you propose
putting the pipeclay ? Can’t help unless we know.
... . J.11.0.C.: (1) Scale fixed by a rule of the
Supreme Court. Apply office of Registrar of Pro-
bates, Supreme Court, Sydney. (2) Net. (3)
Registrar of Probates.... 11.15. S.: Write to either
Dangar, Gedye and Cos., Young-street, Circular Quay,
or Dalgetys, Miller’s Point—both Sydney.... S.T.:
Importation of Angora rabbits is still prohibited.
. ...A.T.: Try J. W. Purvis, 132 Little Bourke-
street; Bentley, Cole and Son, 22 Little Bourke-
street; A. Flavell, 285 Little Lonsdale-street; F. S.
Reading, 40 Little Latrobe-street—all Melbourne....
E.G.S.: Paul and Gray’s last balance-sheet was
reviewed B. 17/4/’29 and in the May “Wild Cat”
Monthly A.H.: A slight adjustment will have
to be made to the cornet and a C attachment fitted.
Write Palings, 338 George-street, Sydney... .A.W.M.:
The “Kobenhavn” (H. K. Christensen, master)
arrived at Melbourne on March 6, 1926, with a
cargo of timber and a crew of 63 from Danzic, via
Plymouth, and sailed on April 1, for Sourabaya,
Java, in ballast... .R.H.U.: Cannot advise till we
know whether a stain showing grain or an enamel
effect is required... .H.S.R.: From Angus and
Robertson, or Dymocks, Sydney... .K.P.: Subject
is well covered in “The Divining Rod,” by Barrett
and Besterman (Methuen) ; also in an article in
Queensland Agricultural Journal, September, 1914
(pages 183-193)... .J.C.: Sydney Tech., Harris-
street, Ultimo, conducts a correspondence course in
dressmaking; £1 Is. per term. For particulars
write Miss E. L. G. Gough, women’s handicrafts
section... .C.C.; You do not state whether amount
is gross or net. Where the final balance of the
estate —that is after deduction of all debts—exceeds
£IOOO but does not exceed £SOOO, the rate of duty
is £2 for each £100... .C.A.D.: Write Director,
Tourist Bureau, 62 Barrack-street, Perth... .E.R.P.:
Spurgin and Son, Madge Madigan, La Roche —all
Queen-street, Brisbane... .W.R.M.R.: Write Stowe’s
Marine Engineering College, 54 Young-street, Sydney.
... .A.P.A.: Eczema is a vague medical term for
several different varieties of dermatitis (inflammation
of the skin). You must not use soap. Clean your
skin with olive oil and ask your chemist for four
ounces of unguentum lassar. Apply the ointment
three times per day. Let us know how you are in
a month’s time... .C.E.8.: (1) Jocelyn’s “Diabetic
Manual” (10s. 6d.), Lawrence’s “Diabetic Life”
(10s.), both from Angus and Robertson, Sydney.
(2) Varies with different forms; write to any leading
wine manufacturers, and they will probably give
you information regarding their own... .M.M.N.:
(1) Not available in Australia; of very doubtful
value anyhow. (2) Care of George Puttenham, 24
Bedford-street, Strand, London, E.C.2.... M.A.: Get
a boat-shaped nasal douche and a bottle of glyco
thymoline. Use one part to four parts of warm
water three times a day.... V.C.D.; You are free to
dispose of it as you think fit; the other party
would have no claim unless he was left without
adequate provision for maintenance... .A.M.R.: An
electric device designed to rid Sydney surfing beaches
of sharks was demonstrated by Dr. E. O. Moller, a
Swedish engineer, at Gunnamatta Bay, Port Hacking,
on June 6. For particulars see Sydney daily papers
following days.... J.A.S.M.: (1) Principal, Hawkes-
bury Agricultural College, Richmond (N.S.W.).
(2) Gobblers, £3 35.; hens, £2 2s H.P.:
Manufacturing jewellers, such as Angus and Coote,
496 George-street, Sydney, are occasional buyers of
cuttlefish. It is bought by the bag, not singly,
large pieces being demanded. A few shillings per
dozen pieces is all that is given... .S.J.T.: “Radio
Manual” by G. E. Sterling (365.), is an elaborate
work on the subject; other suitable works are “A
Short-wave Handbook,” by Robinson (2s. 6d.) ; “The
Four Electrode Valve,” by Goddard (4s. 6d.) ; “The
Practical Superhet Book,” by Bernard (2s. 6d.);
and “Broadcast Reception,” by Pritchard (11s. 6d.).
J.A.F.: Write Norland Nursing College, 68
Charlotte-street, Ashfield, Sydney... .M.R.: (1) You
would need to get a job on one of the cocoanut
plantations to gain experience. For further par-
ticulars write Bums, Philp, 7 Bridge-street, Sydney.
(2) Write see., Lord Howe Island Board of Control,
Chief Secretary’s Department, Sydney... .1.H.: (1)
Reynolds and Cos., 62a Bemers-street, London, W.L
(2) Boosey and Cos., 295 Regent-street, London, V.
(3) Palings, 338 George-street, Sydney, are agents
for both firms. (4) Most leading London publishers
such as Allen and Unwin, Chatto and Windus, and
Heinemann publish dramas. List will be found in
“The Writers’ and Artists’ Year Book.” (5) “The
Amateur Dramatic Year Book” (55.), from Angus
and Robertson, or Dymocks... .W.G.: Either “King
Eider” No. 3 (30s. each) or Hardy’s “Corona
Superba,” size C (50s. each).... G.W.: Marconi
School of Wireless, 97 Clarence-street, Sydney.-.-•
R.W.G. J.: In the absence of a written agreement
there will, no doubt, be a conflict of evidence as
to payment of interest, but even allowing that interest
was to be paid on outstanding balances, the amount
charged appears to be unreasonable. If threatened
with legal proceedings, place the matter in the
hands of a solicitor unless a fair compromise can
be arrived at.... (Many others mailed.)


ďf
Direct from
the Mills
at a
Substantial
Discount
£9-9 and £lO-10
West of England and
Australian All-Wool Worsted
• •
mourn
Now yours
for
ONCE again Murdoch’s demon-
strate to the shopping public
the great advantages which
accrue from massed buying
direct from the Mill and spot-
cash Trading.
As a result of a most fortunate purchase,
Murdoch’s secured a select stock of highest-
grade West of England and Australian
Worsted Suitings at a tremendous discount.
A full range of these choice Suiting fabrics
will come to you by return mail—free and
•il * ! rrn + inr»
Do not miss this
opportunity!
THE variety and extent of the purchase
enable you to select from a particularly
choice range of these Suitings, comprising latest
weaves (many of them exclusive), in Light,
Medium, and Dark Greys, also attractive tones
of Brown, Fawn, Navy, Powder Blue,
Lavender, Grey, also the popular Blue and
Dove Greys, together with All Wool Serges,
guaranteed p”re indigo dye.
«••••*
As in former times, the whole of the cash
benefit is being passed over to the customel;
therefore this is what it means to you:
Usually £9'9'- and £lo'lo'-
Desk "T£>”
Murdoch's, Ltd.,
Park and George Streets, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —Please forward me a complete range of
the above £6/17/- Suiting Special Patterns; also
include self-measurement outfit. This places me under
no obligation whatsoever.
Name
Address
21/8/'29
Murdoch’s Price—
£6-17
(to measure and hand-finished)
Every Murdoch Suit is accompanied
by a Guarantee of “Perfect Satisfac-
tion or Money Refunded."
Postage Paid to your Door
When Writing kindly address all inquiries to Desk
mm
SapUk r.EORGE SYDNEY
‘THE WORLD’S LARGEST MEN’S AND BOYS’ WEAR STORE.'
f
'Ms. • M
mjmmt
m
a
im
r
y
.
*
I
>
:
hr 4 n
’ •• "
; -
.
■
i'-v..
ms
*
■IC , .
■
"ssi * * y*


PEAPES
Clothe men AND their sons.
There is a great difference in
buying at PEAPES —a differ-
ence in what you get and how
you get it.
PEAPES offer better
QUALlTY—better VALUE—
better SERVICE—in the atmo-
sphere of a building designed
specially for the comfort and
convenience of men and their
sons.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
A FALSE IMPRESSION
Relative to Mineral Deficiency and Feeding
It is a false impression among many stockowners that minerals,
as supplied in licks, are unnecessary when stock are being
hand-fed—particularly concentrated fodder, maize, etc.
It is most essential to use a mineralised Salt Lick to supply
the all-important minerals, and aid digestion and the assimi-
lation required.
These essential minerals and aids to digestion are supplied in
VITA-LICK.
VITA-LICK, LIMITED,
STOCK LICK SPECIALISTS,
107 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
The
Weight
of your
Rabbit
Skins
may total lb., cwts. or
tons, but the largest cheque
possible is wanted, what-
tset- the quantity may be.
Send your Rabbit, Fox and
other skins to
p
(S~‘
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD
and secure it. They have one service for all clients
—the best. And their capable work as salesmen
constantly produces top values, accurate and prompt
returns. Offices:
WINCHCOMBE HOUSE
BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY.
and
99-101 EAGLE ST.,
BRISBANE.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CRPARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
MORE PRIZES FOR FARMERS.
In order to encourage farmers to pass
on to others the fruits of their observa-
tion and experience, “The Bulletin” will
give three prizes for the most helpful
contributions during the six months to
Dec. 31 next.
Points will be awarded for every con-
tribution submitted, if thought worthy and
whether printed or not, and two
the first of £25 and the second of £lo—
be given to the winners of most
points.
A special prize of £5 will be given for
’-he best individual contribution.
Only contributions that are of practical
value to men on the land are asked for;
literary merit is not taken into account, so
long as the meaning is expressed plainly.
The prizes are in addition to the ordi-
nary payments made for all “Bulletin”
contributions.
»
SHORTENING SAIL.
“U. Murray”: A neighbor of mine often
enlarges upon wliat he calls “the simpsons”
of various diseases which afflict his progeny.
To-day the “simpsons” of trouble need no
enlarging upmi.
Eirst, consider whether you have any old
crocks, cattle or horses, which you could take
the hides off? These old' brutes are every-
where, eating food which might keep valuable
stock alive. There must be hundreds of
thousands throughout the Commonwealth.
The last time I rode through a neighbor’s,
in one paddock I counted 40 head of horses
for which I would have been sorry to have
given £1 per head. There they were, in the
best paddock on the place, eating the grass
that would have fattened a hundred head
of good cattle. Something of the same sort
is the case on perhaps more than half the
properties in the country.
Secondly, old ewes, owing to the high
prices since the war, have accumulated until
the land is lousy with them. Those should
be shorn and killed with all possible de-
spatch. A Mussolini of mutton would make
it an indictable offence to keep broken-
mouths and gummies alive under any pre-
tence.
Thirdly, dear brethren, keep the cyanide
and other means of rabbit destruction going
harder than ever, instead of easing up on
the pest during the breeding season, as is
done on five properties out of six. Every
rabbit left alive now is likely to mean a
sheep or more dead during the coming year.
Nothing can exaggerate the importance of
keeping the rabbits down when seasons are
not good. Burn away at their harbor as
long as it is safe to do so. The destruction
of such harbor means more than half the
battle against the brutes; and much of it
will burn itself, if lit in such a dry time.
The putting in of summer crops would
need an article to itself, there are so many
points to be considered; but a great deal
could be done at little expense by harrowing
the better and cleaner class of country. The
Yankee students of agronomy assure us that
a good harrowing is always worth an inch
of rain—and an inch of rain may mean a
mighty lot in such a season as this. Wher-
ever a proportion of stock other than sheep
are kept the distribution of droppings alone
will more than pay for the labor of harrow-
ing, when the power and the implements arc
in hand.
SETTING FARM IMPLEMENTS. -
“Yeoman”: The set of the shares in any
soil-working implement is very important
in attaining minimum draught and maximum
efficiency. In the case of the plough, when
working at the required depth—usually from
Sin. to 4in. —the point of the share should
be fin. lower than the wing. Also if a
straight-edge be put along from the point of
the share to the heel of the sole-plate, it is
essential that there should be Jin. to Sin.
clearance nearly all the way along between
those points for the purpose of eliminating
drag. It is only by the correct set of the
shares that a proper grip of the ground can
be maintained. Either too much or too little
set will considerably increase draught and
reduce efficiency.
With the cultivator the point of the share
should be about Jin. lower than the back
when it is cutting an average depth. There
is a definite tendency, as the tine joints of a
stump-jumping cultivator wear, for the
shares to ride on their points. When this
tendency is noticed either joints should be
tightened up, or draught rods shortened.
Generally speaking, the reversible steel-
plate share has largely replaced the cast-iron
ghare. The former are cheaper in the long
run for ploughing, as they can be drawn
out and sharpened when the cutting edge is
worn off. Many farmers, however, still
prefer the old “P” cast-iron share because
it makes the draught lighter.
The short mould-board is best. It turns the
furrow over quickly. The long mould-board
turns a nicely rounded sod, but is heavier in
draught. Moreover, the object- is to turn
and, at the same time, pulverise the soil.
Where the soil is sticky and does not clean
off the mould-board, the pronged mould-board
will be found lighter in draught.
More than the correct set on the shares
is necessary to obtain minimum draughtage.
The correct line of draught is most essential.
The line of draught is ascertained by taking
a line direct from the point of the middle
share, when it is in the right depth, to the
liame hook of the centre horse when the
chains and swings are taut. The height of
the line where it intersects the hook or con-
necting link on the draw-bar on the plough
is the height at which that hook or link
should be fixed. Where a tractor is used,
the line of draught is taken from the point of
the middle share to the draw-bar of the
tractor, and the hook or link on the draw-
bar of the plough is adjusted to come into
line with that line of draught. If the draw-
bar of the plough is higher than the line of
draught there will be a tendency for the
nose of the plough to dip and drag. If it
be too low, the front of the plough will lift
and it will not hang to the ground pro-
perly. In either' case the draught will
be increased by anything from 10 to 20
Per cent. The line of draught should be
ascertained in the same way for other culti-
vating implements. For a harvester it is
taken from the axle.
THE HOMESTEAD SITE.
“D. J.H.”: Don’t stick it right on top of
the hill. Rather choose a spot a little way
down, where you’ll get some protection from
tin 1 worst winds.
Don’t fail to get on with breakwinds; make
the home and the farm buildings snug.
Under the lee of the hill the soil will not
be, perhaps, so good for growth; but you
can cultivate the flats. And even if the
garden is a failure on the hill, there are
plenty of trees that will make a bit of green-
ery and give protection, too.
Don’t neglect the exit to your main road.
See that the track is as easy a grade as
possible-; it does not matter if there are
a few curves in it, so long as it’s easy
pulling. Make the track; even one furrow
on each side will turn a lot of water in the
rainy season. The chap who can fence his
track off and stick a few trees in along it
enhances the value of the farm; maybe it
will make the missus more contented, too.
For her sake, also, don’t plant the house
right on the road. Stand it back a bit.
Keep it in reasonable reach of the farm
buildings and save as much walking as pos-
sible.
It’s no good whipping the cat after the
house is up and you see a better spot some-
where else. Go over the whole area first.
And don’t forget the missus ought to have a
say in this. It isn’t only bad seasons that
break farmers.
THE ROLLER.
“Penfield”: For years the roller almost
disappeared from most Australian farms,
though the pioneers of the business, bringing
their English experience to bear, used it
almost as much as they did the harrows.
These old farmers used only stable manure,
and often it was comparatively new; in
such cases the roller was very necessary to
bring the damp soil into close contact with
the manure in order to hasten rotting. Often
there was a second rolling, but that was
to consolidate the seed-bed.
With the extension of the use of artificial
fertiliser the roller went out of use; but we
are beginning to see that super, does not
give everything the land needs, and the call
for humus is growing more emphatic. Hence
the greater use that is made of lupins and
other green manure. This should generally
be turned in as early as possible; and
here the roller is very valuable—to do the
job that the old farmer used it for in the
days of the stable manure.
PHOSPHATE DEFICIENCY.
“Tarboy”: “Gabarra” (B. 31/7/’29)
states and quotes authority that rock phos-
phates cause digestive disturbances in stock.
This is not Queensland experience. The
use of finely-ground Nauru phosphate in
licks has now become prevalent over the
whole of the State. In one particular case
(Meteor Downs, C.Q.) the owner, Darcy
Donelin, was advised by the Agricultural
Dept, over five years ago to use finely-
ground Nauru phosphates in the form of a
lick containing 50 per cent, salt and 50 per
cent, phosphates. He tried one ton on a
limited number of sheep, and the good results
were so marked that 12 months later he
bought 180 tons. He runs between 00,000
and 80,000 sheep. He found that his animals
stood up against worm infection better than
they ever did; his wool improved, his lamb-
ings improved, and his wool brought top
price in a recent sale.
The reasons why the State officials recom-
mended the use of phosphates was that soil
analysis in Queensland has shown a great
deficiency of phosphoric acid in all soils.
Top-dressing with superphosphate was indi-
cated, but it is quite impracticable to top-
dress areas running into tens of thousands
of acres. From that it was reasoned that
sheep must be supplied with phosphates as
part of their food ration. The percentage
of phosphate recommended in the lick is
in excess of the actual requirements of stock,
and is designed to restore some of the essen-
tial minerals to the soil. The excess, after
bodily needs are satisfied, passes into the
earth, rendered more soluble by the diges-
tive process.
There is no need to fear injury through
over-absorption of phosphates. When sheep
are salt hungry, and are put on to a salt
lick, they will eat at the rate of about 4oz.
a week for about 10 days. Their needs then
taper down to a steady a week per
head. Half of this amount, £ of an ounce,
is rock phosphate, 30 per cent, of which
is phosphoric acid. Not being poisonous,
such a relatively small quantity cannot,
and in practice does not, cause injurious
effects. The use of Nauru phosphates in
the manner indicated has increased amaz-
ingly in Queensland during the last four
years, and the writer has not heard of a
single case where it has had any ill-effect
POTASSIC FERTILISERS.
“R.D.A.”: The following figures relate
to muriate v. sulphate trials on sugar-cane.
Bundaberg and Mackay are the locations,
with three plots muriate (941 b. to 2821 b.)
and three plots sulphate (1001 b. to 3001 b.).
Trials were conducted over the years 1922-
23, with resultant average yields per acre of:
Three plots muriate fertilised, 25.85 tons.
Three plots sulphate fertilised, 26.86 tons.
The sulphate yielded 1.01 tons cane per
acre more than the muriate, or extra cane
to the value of £2.
Again, quotient of purity:
Three sulphate plots, 93.50.
Three muriate plots, 93.40.
The commercial cane-sugar product was:
Three sulphate plots, 35.37 per cent.
Three muriate plots, 15.41 per cent.
A sugar-bureau leaflet gives results of many
soil analyses of the cane areas, and it is
remarkable that those at Bundaberg and
Mackay show an abundance of lime, which
bears out a previous contention of mine that
the muriate is essentially a “basic-soil”
manure, and that lime is necessary to over-
come its ill-effects in the soil.
THE POTATO CROP.
“R.X.8.”: First, sow good and suitable
seed; however good the season and other
conditions may be, it is useless to expect a
bumper crop if the seed has been poor. If
you buy, be sure you get properly greened
seed of good size, and be sure to get the
seller’s guarantee in writing that the seed
is true to label as regards the variety, and
that it is free from disease. It is important
to know the origin of the seed, too, as that
from an elevated district should not be
selected for sowing on the coast, nor should
coastal stuff be selected for the highlands.
To obtain potatoes with the best qualities
for seed they should be lifted before the tops
have died down, or at the stage when they
are known as “new.” Tubers selected
when the dried crop is lifted are quite suit-
able, of course, but if you intend to make
spuds profitable as either main crop or side-
line you will find it pays to select and lift
the seed at the “new” stage. Select tubers
of a good size and shape, and store them in
a dark and cool place, laying them out on
trays in a dark but airy shed. If you can’t
do that, pack the seed in low heaps in
straw or dried grass in a shed, or under
evergreen trees, such as pines. Keep an eye
on it, and especially watch to see that the
potato moth is not at work. Get the seed
into the light two weeks before it is to be
treated and planted. All seed should be
soaked for two hours in a solution made by
adding soz. corrosive sublimate in 30 gallons
of water. Keep a cask or half-cask for this
purpose alone, and remember that the stuff is
poisonous. Sowing infected seed will result
in a very poor crop.
I lie usual practice is to sow whole seed
and we needn’t bother with the pros and eo„'
ot whole versus cut seed. It is asserted that
the advantages of whole seed are in th>
possibility of a dry spell, when the plant-
trom whole seed will have a better chance
£s?* 1* de P ead s entirely on the stage of
b rowth the plant is at when the dry spell
sets in. If a dry spell does not set in and
tne season is anyways good, there will
always be a large percentage of small stuff
from whole sets. Tests carried out with
cut and whole sets side by side have pro-
vided me with lcwt. of undersized stuff
C wr se i ts as a B ainst 7cwt. from whole
sets. Whole sets save time and work, of
course. But cut sets are more economical
because less seed is required and the cron
will supply more marketable-sized spuds. And
ny cutting sets you are not, or shouldn’t be
sowing diseases such as Rhizoctonia.
Cuttings won’t “bleed to death.” But the
cut surfaces should be dried either by expos-
mFi 110I 10 ! 1 ? 1 t 0 tllc suu or by dipping them in
slaked lime or, best of all, wood ashes. But
lor improved results, and especially if you
are sowing a late crop, this tip is valuable
o eei ? t( ; sted witll very satisfactory
results. Soak the cut sets in a solution of
nitrate of soda made by dissolving 31b. of
the stuff m lOgal. water for an hour. Then
dry them with ashes or by exposing them
to the sun. But remember that this method
ot treatment is useless with whole spuds
and is only suitable for cut sets.
DON’T NEGLECT YOUNG TREES.
Boronia”: Some orcliardists neglect to
spray their newly-planted trees until they
are five or six years old, reasoning that there
is _no necessity to do so. This is a serious
mistake, and often results in the trees be-
coming breeding-places for orchard pests.
Every, tree when planted should be sprayed
with lime and sulphur, and every year after
that until the time comes when another type
ot spray is desirable. By doing so bark-
crcvices and cracks will be filled with a
material which will not permit colonies of
parasites to flourish. In addition, the for-
mation of fungus growths will be prevented
and the tree maintained in a clean and
healthy condition.
"GUMMING” IN SUGAR-CANE.
“Hortus”: On the N.S.W. North Coast
there is am alarming spread of gummiug
disease. The varieties most affected are
Innes and N.G. No. 16, and, although the
former is very popular, it may have to be
included amongst the restricted varieties.
Growers should watch for the first appear-
ance of this disease. A plant may look
strong and healthy, yet on the older leaves
little yellow streaks, working up to the
tips, ,may be noticed. Look out for these
streaks. Later on tiny yellow spots of
gum will ooze out on to the cut ends of the
canes.
Want of drainage is at the bottom of
the trouble. A good practice I have seen
is carried out in Ireland in low-lying potato
paddocks. Ridges of fair width are thrown
up, leaving a furrow on either side- the
sets are planted along the tops, and the
flood-waters are carried away along the
furrows. After the waters have subsided and
surface has become nearly dry, loosen up the
soil to conserve moisture.
Another cause is careless selection of
sets. If growers get to know the early
symptoms of the trouble they will not have
much difficulty in selecting sets from disease-
free plants.
Sterilise cutters’ knives; cuttings from
healthy plants may be infected by being
cut with a cane-knife previously used on
diseased cane. Dip knives when in use in
disinfectant or boiling water, especially when
stalks are being made into cuttings. If there
are any traces of disease on a cane-farm
this dipping should be done with special
care when cutting cane which it is intended
to ratoon.
Disease-infested plants should be ploughed
out, left to dry in a place well away from the
scene of a-ction and burnt.
The cause of diseases in many eases can
be put down to lack of rotation of crops.
Some sugar-cane farmers laugh at this. So
did wheat-farmers until they found that
disease and reduction of weight in grain
resulted from a wheat-every-year practice.
Cane-growers will have to figure out some
sort of a rotation scheme if they want to
still grow cane with success. A sacrifice
each season of some of the area at present
laid down with sugar will have to be made
for the purpose of sowing some fodder crop
—'preferably leguminous. This will not only
afford a good standby in stack for dairy
herds, but will also return to the soil
the humus which is so necessary for the
proper cultivation of sugar-cane.
If disease is still apparent after various
remedies have been experimented with,
growers may have again to resort to a
variety such as Malabar, which is highly
resistant to gumming, although rather weak
in sugar-content.
(Continued on page 31.)


i§§ijg§
: ■■■■■■ ■■■
■
♦' '■>
v -
MM
i
liSS#
]'MrM
t§!
WHERE RELIABILITY IS ESSENTIAL,
ENGINEERS SPECIFY TUDOR
Part of a Tudor Battery consisting of 300 cells, having a capacity of 1 7,000 ampere hours at
the ten-hour rate, recently installed in the Clarence Street Sub-station of the Sydn y
Municipal Council.
This is the fourth large
their sub-stations. The
Tudor Battery to be installed by the Sydney Municipal Council in
batteries at the new Bunnerong Power Station are also 1 UUUK,
The same rugged strength and reliability is built into
Tudor Batteries for Country House and Farm Lighting.
TUDOR BATTERIES are supplied exclusively
with
DELCO-EIGHT
plants by
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd., Sydney.
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd., Melbourne.
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd., Brisbane.
Messrs. Parsons & Robertson, Ltd., Adelaide.
and with
plants by
Messrs. Dangar, Gedye, Ltd., Sydney.
Messrs. Malloch Bros., Perth.
For each of the above plants a special exclusive
type of TUDOR BATTERY is supplied,
specially designed to meet the individual
requirements of the plants.
TUDOR ACCUMULATORS
Australasian Office:
THE TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD. (LONDON),
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.


m&mmm
m
n i i
m
mm
v : «. \K
1 : i
I
m
in
a
, ~i,T
v» •■». v *. •:>?••.
: J.
mm
wt
rtnimmu*
QB
ississiifP
M
m
i
□
POWERFUL, SPEEDY yet ECONOMICAL
The larger body gives a more spacious interior, with
broader seats and extra leg room. Other important
factors in riding comfort are the over-size balloon tyres,
snubbers, and longer springs both front and rear.
In performance the new Superior Whippet is speedier,
livelier and more powerful. Long service will prove its
dependability and economical operation. Exclusive
features make the new Superior Whippet Six the
world’s Greatest Light Car Value.
See the new Superior Whippet at your nearest Willys-
Overland dealer’s. Order now for early delivery.
OVERLAND SOUTH
AUSTRALIA, LIMITED,
62-70 Franklin Street, Adelaide,
OVERLAND SYDNEY,
LIMITED,
173 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
OVERLAND (VIC.)
PTY., LIMITED,
117-21 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
E. G. EAGER & SON,
LIMITED,
Breakfast Creek Road,
Newstead, Brisbane.
ADAMS’ MOTORS,
LIMITED,
442 Murray Street, Perth.
H. C, HEATHORN & CO.,
LIMITED,
53-63 Bathurst Street, Hobart,
C /Ae new
six
NEW SUPERIOR WHIPPET FOURS AND SIXES


31
ET
v
Pliant sole and glossy
calf upper
A black shoe of notably easy lit—
low-sided, in the Abbey manner, and
with a distinct arch where it laces,
so that there is no strain over the
instep. The toe is neatly squared,
the whole design well proportioned.
It incorporates everything needed for
real foot comfort.
ORDER BY POST
You will be fitted exactly—there are
three widths, narrow, medium and
wide, for each full and half size.
Specify which require and order,
also, a supply of Abbey black preser-
vative polish (6d. per tin).
Black Velour Calf, 42/-
Enlarged catalogue of men's and women’s
footwear post free.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street, and 224 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
1 “ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
FPLI3B
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
No disease has caused more loss in sheep than Fluke,
yet for less than one-fifth of a penny per sheep this
can now be cured by the application of Carbon
Tetrachloride. This process has been tested by the
Agricultural Departments of various States in Aus-
tralia, and has received their endorsement. It
requires preparation and additions before it can be
applied to the sheep, and these are skilfully carried
out in
SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
1 pint tins ... 4/6 5/- each
1 quart tins . . 6/6 7/- each
ROST FREE ON FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins . . 13/6 16/- each
DELIVERED NEAREST RAILWAY STATION
ON FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY., LTD.,
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
CUTICURA
\ -2T\
J]
~o
Best For Both
Mother And Child
Regular use of the Soap, assisted
by the Ointment when required, not
only cleanses and purifies the skin
of children and adults, but tends to
prevent clogging of the pores, the
common cause of pimples and other
unsightly conditions.
Soap Is., Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment address:
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.”
SaSSF"' Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
d
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LAND AND FINANCE COMPANY, LIMITED,
SYDNEY. Also at WAGGA & TIENTY, LONDON, MELBOURNE. BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE.
Auction Sales
Throughout the Year
5 WOOL, FAT STOCK, GRAIN, SHEEPSKINS,
l HIDES, TALLOW, FURRED SKINS, etc.
Cash Advances on Pastoral Properties and Stock. Wool, Grain and Produce.
Offices: 4 Rligh Street. Sydney. JAMES KTDI». Oenernl Manager for Australia.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £250,000
ALL CLASSES OF INSURANCE EFFECTED.
Probate Disability, Extended Insurance, Non-Forfeiture,
Hospital, Medical and Nurse’s Fees Combined.
Make the event which causes the tax create the cash to pay the tax.
HEAD OFFICE: Hunter House, 26 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
A. McLEAN, Managing Director. R. V. BOOTH, Secretary.
INQUIRIES INVITED.
EXAMINATION FOR TOWN AND SHIRE CLERKS.
Men of ability and average education who wish to get out of the rut and enter
a profession where there is a certainty of employment are advised to send for
our Prospectus. Here is one profession where tire supply is not equal to the
demand. NOW is the time to begin.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
ďf
KANGAROO” SHEEP GATE
REGISTERED No. 17494/28.
-1
H'
•** “'IHI'H
m
|V.I»
'•'VWljQ*
l!
Designed for sheep-pens or
draughting yards to facilitate
the handling of flocks. The gate has one bottom hinge to the back
guard, on which it works, and is simply thrown across into the
long catch bar, which holds it securely.
PULL PARTICULARS FROM THE MANUFACTURERS:—
D. 8 W. CHANDLER LTD.
BRUNSWICK STREET,
FITZROY, VICTORIA.
“BONDING” CONCRETE.
It is often necessary to place new con-
crete on top of old, as, for instance, when
raising a wall. The joining of new work to
old is called bonding, and should be done very
carefully—particularly when constructing
water tanks, silos and the like, where a
water-tight junction is necessary. It is bet-
tor. the N.S.W. Agricultural Dept.’s experts
think, to leave the top fairly level and even
to sweep it clean, and after flushing it at
intervals with water to spread a layer over
it 1-inch thick of mortar, consisting of one
part cement to two parts sand. This mortar
will lie evenly on the old work and the stones
of the new concrete will bed down into it.
If the surface of the old work is left rough
and only a coat of slurry spread over it, the
stones or metal of the old and new work
will meet without any matrix or mortar
between to bind them together, and a weak
and leaky junction is the result.
Don’t guess at the proportions to be used.
For small jobs the übiquitous petrol- or kero-
sene-tin may be used for measuring the
cement, sand and metal. For large jobs,
however, it pays to make wooden gauge
boxes, which are not difficult to construct.
Foment is now usually received in paper
bags containing 1 cubic foot. A useful
gauge box for a 1-24-5 mix is 2 feet 6 inches
wide, 4 feet long and 12 inches deep. This is
filled with metal, and as the amount of sand
used is half that of the metal the same gauge
box can be used by half filling it with sand.
This quantity of metal and sand will require
exactly two bags of cement. For a 1-3-6
mix a useful size is 2 feet 8 inches wide,
4 feet 6 inches long, and 12 inches deep.
This may be used for the sand by half
filling it, and the batch will require two bags
of cement.
A BETTER USE FOR POISON GAS.
“Wofum”: The Australian farmer, and
particularly the producer of potatoes, fruit
and flowers for early markets, will need to
watch some experiments now under way at
the Boyce Thomson Institute of Plant Re-
search (U.S.A.). This body has put the
methods of gas warfare to a better use,
and is now experimenting with the effects of
small amounts of various complex gases on
plant growth. Already it has been found
that the use of the comparatively cheap
gases ' ethylene chlorhydrin and ethylene
Bichloride results in greatly reducing the dor-
mant periods of the grape-vine, the flowering
plum, the crab apple, the lilac, etc. Very
small amounts of the chemicals per plant are
necessary. The gassing of potatoes is now
being experimented with on a comparatively
large scale in California.
THERE’S MONEY IN STUMPS.
“E.S.S.”: A little while back a log of
Queensland maple went astray, and was dis-
covered in London by an American timber
buyer. So impressed was he by the appearance,
grain and figuring of the wood that he traced
it back to its place of origin, near Cairns.
The result has been that within a few months
C.S.A. and Canadian concerns have spent
£1.250,000 in North Queensland on maple
and black walnut, the figuring of which is
ideal for veneered furniture. For this pur-
pose the stumps are sought as well as the
logs. One ship in May last took 979 logs
and 201 stumps and crotches, weighing 4000
tons, and nearly 60,000 super feet of sawn
timber, the cargo consisting mostly of walnut.
The grubbing of stumps for furniture is
not a new industry in Australia —the piano
firm of Beale has used stump veneers for
some time, but the example has not been
followed. Most of the finely figured stumps
have been wasted. Many of the trees have
been cut high, leaving wealth untold to
rot in the ground. Thousands of giant
cedars have been cut high up from the butt,
and those butts to-day would be worth more
than was obtained for the logs. Cedar
stumps are beautifully marked, though per-
haps not so richly as Queensland maple and
walnut. Other timbers possessing the class
uf figuring desired are silkwood, black bean,
ringed gidya, ringed boree or yarran, ringed
myall, tulip and several of the eucalypts.
The stumps in demand for high-class fur-
niture l’ange from about 20in. in diameter
to those of big trees, though the small and
medium-sized are the handiest to work.
P«ut none is discarded when properly trim-
med ; even a pipe or faulty heart in the
stump or butt does not condemn it.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Market value of a prime turkey cock
uni hen, ordinary times? (2) At Christmas?
61) At what aye are they usually sold? (4)
\ rerage weight and value 15 months old?
(5) Would it pay to rear turkeys on a large
scale on 10 acres of lucerne, irrigated; cli-
mate hot and dry, hut plenty of water and
shelter available? —1563.
fl) Cocks, 355. to 425. per. pair; hens,
21s. to 255. per pair. (2) Varies up to 50s.
fur cocks and 30s. for hens. (3) Eight to
nine months. (4) Average weight, 20-251 b.
fur bronze cocks and 10-131 b. for hens. It
is unlikely the market price would improve
after 10-12 months. (5) It should pay to
raise turkeys on a large scale, and they
would do well on lucerne, but only a few
hundred could be raised on 10 acres. And
some more concentrated food would also be
necessary.
From a brown Leghorn cockerel and two
pullets purchased 3.4 months ago I bred
about 40 pullets and 40 roosters. Like their
mothers, all hare crooked breasts, and the
hens are laying badly. Fhould I breed again
from the old stock or seek fresh birds? —ls62.
You should eliminate as far as possible
birds with crooked breasts from the breeding-
lien, as there is no doubt that this is mostly
an inherent fault. Sometimes a bird with
a slightly crooked breast can be used with-
out any harmful results, but judging from
the .past experience in this case it would be
advisable to change the breeders.
(1) Prospect of work in Westralia for a
farm laborer, wheat-growing experience, for
the next six months. (2) Rate of pay? (3)
Likely districts? (4) Condition of road
between Adelaide and Perth? (5) Any
rabbits on the way? (6) Any rabbits tn
Westralia proper? —l434.
(1) There is ample local labor at present:
competent hands are always in demand at
harvest time. (2) From £2 to £3 per week.
w jth keep. (3) Three Springs, Koorda,
Bruce Rock, Kellerberrin, Merredin. (4)
There are bad patches, but a car can get
through. (5) Here and there, but there
are long stretches without them. (6)Uenty.
except in the extreme north and south-west.
HINTS FOR THE FARM,
w . _ n4lil _ im,
garden or orchard let the ducks loose among
Tfaey wiu do , ittl( . m . no harm to the
growing vegetables, but will give the whole
n thorough Hemiinv
araa u thorough cleaning up.
. Silentio : A .piece of leather strap, boo >-
iron or even wire twisted round the gate
P«st and the end bar of the gate wil he p
a weak hinge to last for years. It takes oh
a l'?* "*■ the stiain, and deti ats the . . \
b a bit so “ e stoek have of llfting tlie rtiil 1 '
,
11.A.1. : A serviceable tank stand can
be made by filling a ring of corrugated iron
with sand. '1 he ring should, of course, be
well riveted, and it is also advisable to
further strengthen it by means of hoops .ot
fencing-wire twitched hard against the iron.
-j-hc greatest pressure on the floor of the
tank will be at its centre, and itas advisable,
therefore, to give the sand filling a slight
central crown, ,so that the tank, when fu 1
will settle with a ley 1 fipoi. lh e bfc of
j£ e floo , r y extended Lit (he sui-
ac('i? t u >t aie to come in contact with the
art ‘ a "j as 1 ° < (>ia('nt-
bpecker : Young chicks require a good,
deal of lime for their proper development,
aa d, since they cannot readily assimilate
it in an inorganic form, such as oyster shell,
like' mature fowls, and since most grains do
not SU PP*- V enough for their needs, it is
important to provide a daily ration of green
food rich in lime, such as young clover or
lucerne. Skim-milk powder mixed in the
mash either wet or dry is excellent, and
keeps them growing fast. Liquid milk is
good also, but the quantity they can con-
sume in this form is very limited, and it is
apt to become infected- with germs,
“Tumbe Munda”: In making up a set of
sw ingle trees for your plough team, start
with the s i ng i e bars. Out these 3ft. to 3ft.
2in. between eyebolts. Then proceed with
y o ur double bars, and right back to the
main bar, allowing 16in. to 17in. per horse,
You will notice that in the main bars slightly
i ess than half the length of the single bar
USC( ] to each horse. This is toi allow the
swings to lap. If they don’t lap your horses
w ill have chafed ribs aiid legs. Also, if the
lap is too much there will be trouble ; Tin.
to 2in. is about right. The coupling straps
should be l in proportion to length of swings;
approximately 2ft. Gin. couplings would suit
“Pick”; To neatly finish-off the binding
cord or wire on a split-handle or sulky-shaft,
have the binder a few turns too long. When
there remain some half dozen turns round
the shaft to be placed, bind underneath a
strong looped cord or wire with the loop
outward. Finish the binding, and with the
looped cord pull the end through under the
last half-dozen strands. Pull all firm, and
cut. off the surplus end.
“Fred Rich”: It is inadvisable to allow
weaners and hoggets access to stubbie-pid-
docks after stripping, especially in dry
weather, as the young sheep have not the
digestive capacity of older ones, and are un-
able to assimilate much grain. Even in the
case of older sheep, plenty of water should
be available, and if the sheep do not water
regularly they should be driven there daily,
“Wrash”: In rearing a motherless foal
regular and correct feeding and clean utensils •
are the main things.* Feed from a long
bottle, with a large nipple. For the first
few days give him every hour a pint of warm
milk, with a tablespoon of sugar, and four
tablespoons of lime-water added. The milk
is better taken from a cow that gives a low
butter-fat test. As the foal grows, gradually
increase the supply of milk and lengthen
the waits between meals. At four weeks dis-
continue sugar; at six weeks separated milk
may be substituted for whole. At three
months give him as much as he cares to
drink thrice daily. As early as possible-
mduce lnm to eat meal, crushed oats, bran,
odcako and chaff, and give him access to
greeu 10 ,R a) all tiraos-
“G.E.N.” : In the United States there are
approximately 2,000,000 acres under peanuts,
The industry is moving, slowly but surely,
in Queensland, and is now worth from
£120.000 to £l5OOOO per annum. Seven
sV<f v 0 STS T^vSTfS
joq acres To-day there are 520 -rowers
an( j the output is 3000 tons. “There are
numerous districts in other States where
peanuts could be just as successfully and
profitably grown
“ A .J.8.”; Three hundred lambs bred by
Mr Browning, of Yarrawonga (Vic.), were
treated by the Western and Murray Bacon
Co. recently. They were between 11 and 12
wce ks old, and averaged 341 b A remark-
np|e feature was that an infinitesimally
sm all number weighed over 401 b. or under
Never in my experience have lambs
three months old treated for export shown
S ncli a splendid average. They were by
Southdown rams from crossbred and come-
pnpi. pwp< ,
„ . ;• , e
Ooolabah ; A sh nng example of the
way the thing should be done is provided
by the Darling Downs Go-op. Bacon Co., Ltd.
(Q.). This concern bled its first grunter in
poi 2, and accounted for 8232 that year. Last
y €ar 69,438 squealed their last on its floors,
providing £374,000 worth of hams, bacon
an d by-products. Commencing when the pig
industry in Queensland was at a low ebb,
it became a prime factor in raising and
stabilising the market. It has paid the.
highest ruling rates to producers, written off
£52,000 for depreciation, accumulated in
assets £157,000, handed round in deferred-
pay bonuses on pigs supplied £63.000. and
bonus-shares (fully-paid) worth £80,388.
Dividends at 6 p.c. are paid on the full
issue, and, as the subscribed capital amounts
only to £23.000. this represents 30 p.c. on
actual investment to the enthusiasts who
first threw in their modest tenners.


<23
7hp centre of Queens/onc/s
' ct/ s tingu/sheet Soc/crt Life.
%oU\
RDTCC
BRISBANE
Magnificent 5 a I i-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal ol
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780—10 Lines.
<3
_\\\
M
Insistm
BCL
/ILVER TOP
DHYGIN
Squm'e Glass
Dottle
with the
Green Label
o
POLS
Steve
DRYGIN
EXTRA HIGH GRADE
SMOKING TOBBGGO
'/jj. /\
its
•uqiit:
is
Unequalled.
19 per 2oz Tin
SMOKE-OH!
Some of these peak-hour trams are a stand-
ing disgrace.
* *
Shakspeare up-to-date: He jests at car3
who never felt them wound.
¥ ¥
In the spring a young man’s fancy lightly
turns to thoughts of getting a few frocks
out of him.
*¥*
HEARD IN DARLINGHURST.
Razors are more than Gillette blades, and
sawn-off guns than jagged glass.
A stitch in the hand is worth two in the
neck.
Little acts of murder done in drunken
strife give a bloke a passport to eternal life.
There’s many a full mug comes out of a
sly groggery.
C. L.
“Traveller wanted. God salary and commission.”
—S. M. HerAIjD.
Not the wages of sin, anyway.
V At
A motorist, charged with being drunk,
declared that he never took more than two
drinks a day. Safety thirst!
* *
A Melbourne firm whose premises w r ore
burned out announces that its employees will
continue to be paid until anew building is
found. An exception to the rule that where
there’s smoke there’s fire.
“Chinese politicians often become bandits and
extract money from the people.”
In Australia they prefer to become
Treasurers.
¥ *
“She was practically alone in the country except
for an uncle who had died before her arrival.”
—Sydney Sun.
Still, these family ghosts are great com-
panions at times.
* *
THE COMMON TOUCH.
Talkie Hero : Tall handsome nasal
twang.
Talkie Heroine : Small fluffy nasal
twang.
Talkie Villain : Sleek —moustachioed —nasal
twang.
Talkie Vamp : Snaky—Eton crop—nasal
twang.
Talkie Mother: White hair —habit of paw-
ing people—sanctimonious expression—nasal
twang.
Talkie Cop : Square jaw—habit of shooting
people—nasal twang.
Talkie Audience: Average crowd of Aussies
—one and all in rapid process of acquiring
nasal twang.
Doric.
•Y- *
REMARKS WHICH SLAY AFFECTION.
“It’s sure to rain for the picnic.”
“But supposing the brute doesn’t win!”
“A pain in the right side? Appendicitis,
for a certainty.”
“I bet your girl won’t turn up.”
“Going out with your new motoring sheik,
Mary? Well, take your walking shoes, my
dear.”
“I think your wife has found out!”
“No one makes a wrong income-tax re-
turn and gets away with it, my boy.”
Ric.
IN 1999.
Consult McGoogan the
Divorce Specialist. Same-day
Service.
Antique Offerings at Blink's.
A genuine old Anthony Hor-
dern perambulator. Also one
or two exquisite oleographs.
At Bones’s Sale, commenc-
ing to-morrow. Fashionable
skirtless, topless, sleeveless
frocks, in all shades. A
number of the new nudes, as
worn in Central Africa.
Keenly priced at 7id. each.
Dr. Blimp, of Macquarie-
street, the famed physiognomic
expert, will remodel and re-
juvenate that face! Expres-
sions fitted. He specialises in
centenarians.
Use the new Rocket Car
for that appointment! Get to
London in less time than it took your
grandfather to shave.
S. W. K.
* X
“A man about 700 years of age. wandered along
the streets of Goulburn early this morning. When
the police found him they discovered that he was
suffering from loss of memory.” — S. M. Herald.
Another of these shell-shock cases caused
by the Crusades evidently.
* *
RACING RHYME.
Hey diddle dumpling, my hoy Bert
Dreamt he knew of a stone-cold cert.
And played up his own and his boss’s shirt.
Said the Judge (and this was the thing that
hurt )
“Three years hard” to my hoy Bert.
Sandy.
HER HAT.
She wore it out to-day.
And if there is a doubt
Why it was put away —
Let's say she icore it out.
Dike.
¥ v
Melbourne motorists are being searched by
an armed hold-up man. There seems to be
scope here for a hit-and-run specialist.
This talk about dry America seems to be
all moonshine.
FIOW IT REALLY HAPPENED.
(By our Biblical Expert.)
Lieut.-Colonel Uriah, Bathsheba's hus-
band, was in the military, and ipso fact/
broke. The bar of the local Service Club
alone swallowed up most of his income. In
the circumstances Bat.’s demands for new
frocks maddened him.
“Look at that old war-profiteer David,"’
he said one day. “He’s rolling in money.
Why not have a go at him?” (Morally,
they were both extremely modern, you see.)
Next day she left the bathroom blind up,
David’s flat being over the way.
That afternoon the old ruffian and his
limousine were waiting outside when she
started for the library. “Let me give you
a lift,” he leered.
Uriah was satisfied. He regarded David
as an old mug who could be bled at arm's
length. Which was where he erred.
“Abijah,” said the octo-
genarian one day to his con-
fidential clerk, '‘l want to
marry a girl I know. I’ve
got a lot of her husband's
paper already, but I want
more —a lot more. I want
to have him hit with a
brick.”
In due course the brick
landed. The Colonel’s uni-
form was found neatly folded
at the Gap overlooking the
Dead Sea. The fruitless
search for the body helped to
sell the evening papers for
quite a week.
The marriage of David
find Bathsheba at the Jeru-
salem Synagogue was the
society event of the year. In
the enumeration of the bride-
groom’s cattle-runs, invest-
ments in city property and
holdings in gas arid ferry
shares, mention of his age
was forgotten. On the
memorial tablet erected by
Bathsheba, the D.S.O.’s
death was attributed to war
wounds, an untruth which
went down with those who
did not know that he had
served as a motor-transport officer at a
remote base depot.
One day a shifty-looking customer called
on David with a yarn about a ewe lamb.
His visiting-card disclosed that his name was
Nathan, and he looked it. When David
sorted out his caller’s story he discovered
that Uriah, living precariously in Babylon,
had heard of his wife’s re-marriage, and
proposed to make money out of it. A lot
of money.
David rent his garments in his hurry to
get at his cheque-book.
Of course the payment became a regular
one, and Uriah achieved a pleasant death
eventually in the d.t.’s. Bathsheba joined
the National Council of Women, and took
BACK TO REAL THINGS.
THE WIFE: “Oh John, and so soon after
our honeymoon!"
THE HUBBY: “But, loo’ ’ere, m’dear, a
feller’s got to get back to business
some time, y’ know.”
to giving lectures on such subjects as “The
Menace of the Growth of Divorce.” It is
understood from his son’s subsequent be-
havior that David advised him to run a
harem as being more economical than frivol-
ling with other men’s wives.
Hamer.
OUT OF DATE.
Sadly the car-sheik toots his horn
Sitting there girl-less and forlorn;
Ethel and Maud and Mary Jane
Are sheiking the cove in the aeroplane.
O’BEAN.
EVOLUTION.
Adam the apple shared, poor cow!
And soon perceived his slip.
Eve swallows all the apple, now,
And gives him hut the pip.
P. P.
SPRING TALE.
“Spring!” mused the girl, and pressed her
hands to her beating heart. “Spring!”
exulted her lover as he dashed from his office
to meet her. “Spring,” reflected the young
man’s employer. And then, tolerantly, “Ah,
well, we’re young but once.” He reached
EASY FIX THAT.
“There are a number of letters here addressed to Jones,
care of us. Do you know where to find him?”
“Er — no, sir, I don’t.”
“Write to him at once and tell him to send his address.”
the street, and a beggar intercepted him
with “Could you spare me a bob, sir?” The
coin was handled over. “Cripes!” mused the
derelict. “I never expected ’im to spring it.
It’s nice spring weather —bosker for drink-
ing—an’ with this kinder luck I orter be
properly sprung before six o’clock!”
ANGUS O'COHEN.
DOUBTS AND FEARS.
The hush of a glorious night lay over the
lovely garden,. The wide, cool verandah was
steeped in silence and the heart-catching
beauty of a summer moon.
A door opened, and a girl’s white-clad
figure came slowly to the shadow cast by
the crimson rambler. “What a night! What
a night to waste in slumber!” Something in
her young heart rebelled
against this waste of perfumed
beauty, and then, realising
why she had left the sleeping
house, she glanced anxiously
towards the gate. Would he
come? Would hef Or would
he forget again ? Surely,
surely she had paid in full.
God knew she owed him noth-
ing. And yet he came not,
denying her that which was as
the very wine of life to her.. . .
Suddenly she shivered, and,
drawing her thin wrap about
her, put out —the milk-can and
went to bed.
MARY NAPIER.
“THE SMELLIES” ARRIVE.
Important Scientific Discovery.
The Smellies are here, thanks to a handy,
cheap and efficacious apparatus which 1
have invented myself.
Odors, like sounds, are simply electronic
disturbances in the ether. Hence they can
be photographed. On the talk film the sound
waves appear as broad and narrow bands
to the left of the picture; on the smell film
odors appear as minute clusters of dots to
the right of it.
The denseness of
the clusters con-
ditions the inten-
sity of the per-
fume.
When the pic-
ture is projected
these dots are
converted back
into their appro-
priate scent
JUST HIS PREJUDICE, OF COURSE.
PHYLLIS: “What do you think, Dad, is the nicest
color for a bride?”
FATHER: “Well, I should, prefer a white one every time.”
wave, which my amplifiers can increase
to any degree of strength up to 5,000,000
times that of the original. Distributors con-
cealed about the auditorium convey the per-
fume instantaneously to every pasal organ,
even in the largest theatres. The synchroni-
sation is perfect.
Everybody knows the difference between
the scent of a rose and that of cooked cab-
bage. Few are aware of the more subtle
scent differences between, say, a brick and
a diamond.
Most people know that there are
racial aromas —that an Englishman cannot
travel with comfort in a closed carriage
with Italians, and vice versa; that a Malay
is overwhelmed by the fragrance of a Cau-
casian, and so on. Few are aware that there
are class differences —that a thoroughly washed
navvy smells differently from an equally well-
bathed brewer, a Ministerialist from an Oppo-
sitionist, etc., etc. Still fewer know that
emotions also have their characteristic and
recordable bouquet. People go red with
anger. They also become sulphuretted hydro-
gen with hate.
Selecting a woman with a temperament
comparable to Greta Garbo’s, I made a care-
ful record of her reactions on my olfacto-
meter. Inspired by jealousy, she filled the
air with the tang of salt and bitter almonds.
Suffused with amorous longing, she emitted
a perfume compounded of frangipanni and
garlic. Requested to register mother-love,
she filled the studio with a blend of castor
oil and talc, powder.
There is no need for me to stress the
importance of my discovery. A fresh world
of exquisite sensations is flung open to the
great picture-going multitude. They will sit
literally interpenetrated with the boiled-hops
gaiety of Clara Bow. Their nostrils will
tingle to the bonedust passions of Pola
Negri. < Even melodrama will benefit,- and
when the villain is thrust into the ship’s
furnace the pungent odor of a silver grill
will supply the necessary illusion.
There is not a dog’s chance for the legiti-
mate stage now. Both metaphorically and
actually a new sense has been given to the
drama.
I am glad the smellie is an Australian
invention. I shall see that the Americans
are made to pay through the nose for it.
M. G. S.


VOppV
\
n
/• '!
s
/, /
/ 2
!K
V,
G&
e '
sl^
VS«
m
M
THE OLDEST HORSE
IN THE WORLD !
ESTABLISHED 1742
Whitehorse
Whisky
Screw-cap Bottles.
No Corkscrew Required.
<?MxxX^


*
✓
1
A
In buying foodstuffs, quality must
always come first* REX-PYE is the
finest meat in the world* Note the
delicate aroma as you open the can
and the delicious flavour as you eat
the dainty.
We could pack a cheaper article to
compete with the imitations of
REX-PYE sold at a lower price. But
we will not do so; for to sacrifice
quality for cheapness is bad policy
for both buyer and seller* The
enormous sale of REX-PYE is due
to its excellent quality.
Put Quality before
cheapness. Always
say REX-PYE .
In lib and |lb cans.
POOOITT JONES PTV. LTD.
(Division of United Provisions Ltd.)
Outers of the Choice REX Hams and Bacon


wmm
Cruising to
JAVA and
SUMATRA
First-class round fare to Belaxvan
Deli (Sumatra), calling at Java ports,
Singapore and Penang: From Brisbane
and Sydney, £99; from Melbourne,
£lO5.
The K.P.M. invites you to wonder and wander in Java and
Sumatra, islands of exotic attractions.
Glorious days at sea, the comforts and conveniences of the
great Liners Nieuw Holland and Nieuw Zeeland will be a
delightful holiday for you.
The steamer is your hotel for the round voyage of seven weeks.
Full particulars from
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION COMPANY
(K.P.M. Line),
255 George Street, Sydney.
John- Sanderson & Co., 11l William Street. Melbourne; Dalgety & Co., Brisbane;
Elder, Smith St Co., Adelaide and Perth.
:(0.
m
Wi
the Rummer dct
y?
J70R their Romping hours,
dress the children in
‘ Bo-Peep 9 Print. It is a
really hard-wearing fabric,
absolutely colour-fast, and
washes wonderfully.
fd
‘Bo-Peep ' Print is 38 inches wide, and is obtainable in many styles,
designs and colourings. Sold by leading _ Drapers and Stores,
Produced by the makers of " Tricoline ” —the equal to silk.
(Jh-CPeep (print
for ChildrerisWear.
A fabric.
If any difficulty in obtaining, write
H. G. RANDELL,
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
m
Vi"
A\ SILIICIK, SMICCnnHI SIMaWIE
....without painful “drag,” if you use the Plum Razor, ideal for wiry beards and tender skins.
Guaranteed and kept in order for two years free. Strcngly-made grained-leather case with every razor.
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 ~
Real Ivory Handle 21/- „
Satin-lined double
case free with
every pair.
7-day sets—7 razors in case:
Black, 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory, 140/-
Post Free to Any Address.
Jke IPILIJM Ra^or
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
(•'PL 4.
Pen and Picture
The
STATE
THEATRES
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
Shadow Shows
Whether it is for the* world’s good or ill,
or even for Australia’s, is not the point:
the fact is that in, for example, Sydney the
talkies have amazindy captured the amuse-
ment-seeking public, have in certain in-
stances sadly bled the so-called “legitimate”
stage, have emptied some orchestras from
their pits and left the rest strumming in
the shadow of the sack (a tragic note in
the comedy), have collared a new theatre
whose owners had made a point of asserting
that the most the talkies could do would be
BESSIE LOVE.
to help the
stage, have
made it
more and more
difficult to
see a silent
film (an “old-
lime silent
film” is the
usual expres-
sion) , and
have shown
remarkable ad-
vance in them-
selves. All
this u o
doubt a good
deal more-
lias happened
in a little
more than six
months. The
B ULL ET IN \s
first criticism
of the new
e ntertainment
appeared on
Janu a r y 9
this year, when this column was given to a
review of a few amateurish brevities screened
at Sydney Regent, with some comparisons
with a silent film, in which old-time silent-
movie actress Bessie Love, still going strong
in the same theatre’s latest talkie, was
featured. Briefly, the verdict upon the then
raw novelty was that, though holes could
be shot through it without trouble, through
those holes the reasoning observer could get
a glimpse of an interesting future.
It was pointed out then that the photo-
graphy, brought to a high pitch of perfeo-
tion in the silent-movies, had suddenly
slipped back 25 years. Situations, exits and
entrances, the switching from one scene to
another, were most awkwardly managed,
voices were too loud and not modulated, and
the illusion of continuity was lost. Every
one of these defects has been overcome.
What is more, a good deal has been added
to screen entertainment. The defects listed
and others can still be met, but pictures
have been made without them. Terrible
things are still being done in the way of
stories. Harrowing masses of sickening
slobber such as clogs “The Singing Fool,”
disjointed medleys such as “The Hole in the
Wall,” and inartistic and inexcusable pig-
trough stuff for morons can be found without
much search; but they can be found quite as
abundantly in those cousins to the screen,
the stage and written fiction : this Showman
has seen little in the way of talkies more
barren of artistry than, say, the alleged
“legitimate” offering “Hit the Deck,” and
he could name at least a dozen current
novels in the slough of which an Al Jolson
might almost carry his head held high. Also,
the commercial “legitimate” stage in Syd-
ney has nothing at time of writing with the
dramatic content of the Regent’s current
offering, “The Broadway Melody”—and the
"Melody” is merely lavish melodrama, spec-
tacular and otherwise interesting, but too
drawn out, and with none of the finish of
"Interference,” the emotional quality of “On
Trial” or the veracity of “The Man I Love,”
screened respectively at the Prince Edward,
Haymarket and State recently.
On the Regent’s current bill, too, there
is a brief talkie-comedy which proves that,
given good dialogue, such an apparently
born-for-the-silent-screen pair of comedians
as Roach and Laurel can be even more
satisfying in the vocal sort. The stage sel-
dom offers anything so productive of sus-
tained unrestrained laughter as such an
absurdity as this, for here the comedy is
concentrated and accelerated as it cannot
well be in a “legitimate” offering. The
stage, of course, has strong advantages over
the talkies in certain respects. The talkies
Cannot give the living thing called per-
sonality, any more, than any sort of canned
music can really replace that which is given
direct human interpretation. Nevertheless,
they have advantages over the stage as a
means of providing entertainment, just as
both have forces which written fiction has
not, and just as it in turn has forces given
to neither of them. Comparison among the
three can be even more odious than it
usually is. There is a thin stream of the
same family blood in all three —the primary
job of each is to entertain —but each differs
most importantly from the others. A strong
case might be made out for the compara-
tive worth of each, but that is immaterial;
they are related, but not counterparts. And
looked at as a unit in an entertainment
fraternity, the newest of the three will be
seen to be enjoying an extraordinary vogue.
If it continues to improve itself, as it has done
in the last six months, it will doubtless be
even more phenomenally successful in the
sphere in which all three, with various
attempts at disguise, pursue the altruistic
science of making money.
The Palette
Dauvergne Boxall, the S. Aus. painter,
will be back in Adelaide at Christmas, after
three years at the Slade School in London,
where he won all sorts of prizes. He has
had pictures in the Academy and the Salon,
as well as many smaller English shows.
“Lond”: The self-distrustful lover of the
arts who tries to get a lead from- the experts
in the dailies is “left” even more than usual
over this year’s Academy. No two minds
seem to agree about it. The extremes are
touched by the Express, which thinks it
“the dullest for years,” and the Mail, which
calls it “a splendid Academy.” The Mail’s
main boast is that “youth is to the fore” ;
the Express’s main complaint is that “youth
lias been shut out.” So the plain man is
driven to the unwelcome plan of forming
an opinion of his own.
Anyone with an eye for contrasts can
enjoy a rare feast in Sydney at the moment
—heavy, thoughtless masses of paint at the
Education Galleries, telling a touching tale
of the energy that lifts an artist to look
always through the eyes of some mentor, and
at the Grosvenor Margaret Preston showing
the spirit to paint what Margaret Preston
sees. Miss Preston is the first artist in pre-
sent writer’s experience to exploit the deco-
rative qualities of the Australian banksia.
With her acute taste in arrangement she has
made of it an excellent medium in design.
Nothing could be more Australian than her
contrasting of the large, conical Westralian
member of the family with the smaller, stiffer,
cylindrical N.S.W. cousin. A grouping of
the Western flower only is a fine example
of simplicity in design and color. The lady
even manages to convert the lioney-dew
melon into a peculiarly local thing. Her
still-life is her best work, but the huddled,
tiled buildings crowding down to the water
it) her Sydney landscapes are wonderfully
true. A heartening, original exhibition.
The Inky Way
Last English mail brought The Bulletin
a sheaf of congratulations on “discovering
‘Coonardoo’ and ‘A House Is Built.’ ” Mr.
George Harrap, managing director of the firm
which published the latter novel, was among
those who sent their cheers ; and the Bodley
Head wants to be put into early communi-
cation with the winners of the next competi-
tion. Things never looked so promising for
the Australian writer.
“Vic. R.”: Unfortunate result of an effort
to brighten up the personal column of a
Westralian paper:—
Wedding rumors are becoming about as thick as
wheat seed in this district. Ten pairs are scheduled
to do the needful in the very near future.
“0.P.H.”: Roy Gollan is another who is
returning to the Inky Way. Gollan was on
the Melbourne Argus six years ago as a
reporter ; he left it to join the Evening Sun.
When the Sun went down he became an
assistant railway publicity officer; from that
job he leaped to tourist-bureau officer. Now
he is going back to the Argus as assistant
manager. Charlie Smith, who formerly held
the Argus job assigned to Gollan, is now
manager of the West Australian.
“Lao-dah”: Frank Russell’s despatches to
Melbourne Herald concerning his interviews
with Mussolini, the King of Italy and the
Pope give some graphic pictures of the
democratic simplicity of royalty, the military
pomp of Fascism and the complexities of
ecclesiastical rule. Russell was struck, as
was the present writer, by the contrast
between the austere dress imposed on modern
women visiting the Vatican and the Renais-
sance pictures of nymphs and fauns on the
walls. But none of the three potentates
appears to have unburdened himself of
secrets of State. When even the most studied
utterances of rulers are apt to become
matter for controversy, a casual conversa-
tion with a newspaper man from the Anti-
podes is likely to consist mainly of How-
de-do’s.
“.Tamwood”: Dudley Disraeli Braham,
editor of the Sydney D.T. for 10 years and
of the West Australian since 1924, is re-
joining the London Times, with which he
was associated from 1897 till 1914, first as
a cub from Oxford and, towards the end, as
a director. Before he left Perth Braham
was the guest of the Labor Ministers at a
luncheon—a rare compliment for a “Tory”
journalist to receive. He will be succeeded
by H. ,T. Lambert, his associate-editor, now
holidaying abroad. Lambert, like the pre-
sent Senator Colebatch, was a sub. on the
Perth Morning Herald ; after that journal’s
decease he ran a paper of his own, the Swan
Express, for several years before the West
engaged him as leader-writer.
DISCONTENT.
I’m tired of hearing the same songs sung in
the old familiar way;
I’m bent on something rich and new to startle
the world to-day,
A song with a swing to move the heart and
turn a cynic’s head,
A song that’ll stir the dead who live and the
living who are dead.
Beethoven’s music and Shakspeare’s soul and
Swinburne’s haunting rhyme,
And Virgil’s cunning and Milton’s depth and
al] the gems of time —
These will I gather and bind them fast. The
Nine will weave a spell
Till the very spirits in torment cast will
break the bonds of Hell.
The earth will thunder with chants of praise,
the heavens bow to hear,
And warring nations with hate forgot embrace
and drop a tear.
Men will know a Poet has come indeed, and
thrill to my stirring strain—
Unless the Editor should send it back to me
again.
VICTORIA.
P. T. F.


M
\\
asH"
Aristocracy
in chinaware
UNTOUCHED by the
br ush,confident
in its own beauty of form and
modelling, the Shelley China
distinguished as “Dainty
White” has a still higher
claim to aristocratic, indeed
royal, rank. The brilliant
purity of the white body —
English Bone China of
Shelley grade—would make
any less noble ware look
dingy beside it.
A
sk ro see the
SHELLEY
Aresr
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
• China
Nursery Ware
by Lucie Attweu
&Hilda Cowham
Domestic Ware
Jelly Moulds
IM CASK
I&ITDH MADI
©* ANY IN OBTAINING
WRITK TO
Experimenting
How much a year do
you waste in unneces-
sary Experiments?
Cut Waste and
Advertise with a
“ Result-Bringer”
Che telegraph
BRISBANE
Has proved itself for
over 57 years a good
Result-B ringer ’ ’ for
all Advertisers.
Cbe telegraph
newspaper Co. Ctd.
Queen & Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane.
Simplest Way
to Stop
INDIGESTION
If you suffer after eating, try this simple plan: Eat
three Para-Pepsin tablets during your meal and note
results. No pain! Just a hearty meal, and a. first-
rate feeling afterwards. No drowsiness! Para-Pepsin
is a great remedy for digestive troubles—much better
than anti-acids or bismuthated magnesia. Costs onlv
2/- at any Chemist's; or direct from Amalgamated
Laboratories, Kembla Building, Sydney.
%
*llllllll
V.
DAWN BEGGS. Her
mother writes : "My
little girl is a Rexona
Girl, having always
used Rexona Soap,
which I consider ab-
solutely the best for the
skin and hair.”
Rexona Soap is in the sunshine of popularity
because it does all that it sets out to do. Its
devotees loudly acclaim its complexion pro-
ducing properties as the inevitable result of its
wonderful cleansing powers.
“ Beauty is only skin deep,” they say, but it
will not be even that if the youthful bloom
with which Mother Nature endows us is not
protected in earliest years by using Rexona
Soap. Later the use of Rexona becomes a
habit, and the delicately nurtured skin tingles
with indignation when only ordinary soaps are
used. To be dainty and attractive—which all
girls like to achieve—use only Rexona Soap.
Price 1A per tablet
wMiSmmi
crpvttm*
£ • .
S E « - ■
<e»f^
I
REXONA
SOAP
for Health ana Beautv
RSI4R
Queensland’s Greatest Advertising Medium,
Tshe
BRISBANE COURIER
Carries more advertising than two other Brisbane dailies combined.
“COURIER”
for 6 months,
Ending June 31, ’29
Two other Dailies
for same period
14,216
13,758
JS>h
Advertising
Columns.
Advertising
Columns.
The “Brisbane Courier” is th_e largest and most reliable financial,
commercial and home paper in Queensland.
First in Circulation, Coverage, Advertising and Influence.
Published by THE BRISBANE NEWSPAPER CO.,
Courier Building, Queen Street, Brisbane.
Syd. Rep.: ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Sou. Bris.”: In Brisbane this month
there was keen competition at the second
series of ’possum-skin sales. Some very
choice samples realised the extraordinary
price of 2055. per dozen, while others brought
1925. a dozen. Sixteen or seventeen shillings
for the hide of a small possie! The value
of the skins sold at the two sales amounted
to 1165,000.
* * * *
“V.H.R.”: The Speck's Police Department
has hit on a novel way of paying the postage
on its demands for motor-tax. In each
reminder is enclosed a pamphlet advertising
a Hobart tyre-retreading firm.
* * * *
“Aileron": Australian Aerial Services
opened their great new aerodrome outside
Adelaide the other day. The ’drome covers
147 acres, there are waiting-rooms for pas-
sengers, and petrol and electric current arc
laid on. The service will be from Adelaide
to Melbourne and Sydney every Tuesday and
Thursday; the through fare to Sydney, via
Cootamundra, is £l4 3s. (id., including a
sleeper from “Coota" to Sydney.
‘4: i\: :Jt *
“Tynesider”: Touching the worth of Brit-
ish workmanship (B. 1 i/8/’2D), take the
case of the Mauretania. This Tyne-built
craft, in attempting to beat the German
Bremen’s new Transatlantic record, failed
by a mere 44 hours, though she had to be
stopped for a surgical operation. The Scotch
boilers which provided the steam were the
identical lot put into her when she took the
water in 1907.
* * * *
“Screenings": The Primary Producers’
Bank is growing. Within the past few
months it has laid out £40,000 in acquiring
the former Truth building in Queen-street,
Brisbane, and converting the ground floor
into an up-to-date banking chamber. The
fumed silky-oak panelling and fittings make a
brave show.
* * * >:<
“Coot": Clapp’s department is still utilis-
ing some of the carriages used in 1854 for
the opening of Victoria’s first railway, which
ran between Melbourne and Port Melbourne.
They now serve as workmen’s sleepers on
sections of country lines remote from towns,
and the ancient vehicles look good for an-
other 75 years.
/ * * * ■ *
“Pop” (Brisbane) : The extermination of
the flying-fox is to receive attention. It is
to be hoped that the value of the fur of
the birds, beasts or reptiles—whatever they
are—will be considered. With proper treat-
ment and correct marketing, a big demand
could be found. Some good publicity-man
could pick a name; perhaps Golden Fox
would fill the bill.
* * * *
“Lao-dah": How little the powers of
observation are developed in the average in-
dividual is shown in connection with the
photomaton. Of the thousands who get their
pitchers taken by the device, few realise that
the result is not a true portrait. As the pic-
ture is printed direct without the use of a
negative it is reversed, the left side of the
face becoming the right. I have seen men
stare delightedly at their likenesses, unaware
even that the outside breast pocket has got
on the wrong side and that moles and hair
partings have become mysteriously trans-
posed.
* * * *
“Lizard Passage” : The latest to discover
the fish wealth of the Great Barrier Reef
waters is Dr. Yonge, one of the scientists
who have been exploring the Barrier for
12 months past. He thinks there are for-
tunes in fish- and turtle-canning, especially
as regards the teeming millions of true sar-
dines in those seas. But fish-canning and
-curing, with turtle meat and soup as a side-
line, has been attempted a score of times in
Queensland, and, with the exception of a
turtle enterprise or two, every venture has
come a thud. Certainly no one has ever
tackled the sardines.
* * * *
“Signplease”: Magistrates inveigh piously
against the temptation offered weak natures
by the present form of goods-display on
open tables and stands ; but there is method
in it. I was once chided by the boss for not
presenting more conspicuously a readily
lifted line. I explained that thefts had been
so frequent that I feared for my figures.
“Let ’em thieve!” he replied. Then he
patiently pointed out that when I displayed
lavishly sales were many, whereas under
“safety-first” rules they were hardly worth
talking about; that he could afford to have
three in a dozen stolen and still show
more than an average net margin ; and that
the extra sales would so facilitate his quan-
tity-buying that another profit-margin was
possible there on turnover. So we went on
losing shillings and raking in pounds. That’s
business.
* * * *
“Rev. I-lopley Porter”: The modern ten-
dency to sidestep churchgoing has had a sor-
rowful effect on industries which specialise
in ecclesiastical furnishings. A firm with
which I am remotely connected was recently
on the verge of bankruptcy, when the junior
partner married a giddy worldling. The firm
had an immense stock of expensive hassocks
which had been a drug on its hands for
years. Informed of this the young person
had them covered in silks of lurid hues, and
insisted on her husband advertising them as
“cocktail cushions”—the very last word in
smartness for cocktail parties. It gives me
pain to say they went off like hot cakes. The
factory is now working three shifts in the
24 hours turning out the godless goods.
* * * *
“Chev.”: The degree to which science is
being applied to tropical problems these days
is astonishing. The latest scheme is to
submit rubber to “tropical sunlight” at the
great Dunlop works in England. By means
of ultra-violet lamps months of equatorial
sunshine can be telescoped into a few hours
so that the suitability of various kinds of
rubber for tropical conditions can be ascer-
tained in the factory. This is a far cry
from the times when the young Englishman
went out to Singapore with his boxes
crammed with a London haberdasher’s
romantic notions of a tropical equipment.


match less
AFTOMA
DRY GIN
« r 'U(O l BTT'ltO
'«>». OSImtO"
OSTiuIMS "Ss
¥
mm
mi
H
Ui
mm
tii
PRICE
BERRY
/ 1/
LMo 'nths of research abroad; working
and investigating wherever diflil/ing
was done; rejecting commonplace prac-
tice ; accepting only the bell /rim all
known methods; improving on old
formula by the use of modern apparatus
, . . . thus our chtmiSl produced in
Cryflal Court not only
first, but the World's finest dry gin.
AN aroma, apart . .r. individual, enticing, aristocratic. The outcome
of a distilling method won from world-wide research, the aroma
of Crystal Court Dry Gin is allied with its matchless purity and
clarity —an alliance which has won for it the title, of Australia s First
and the World’s Finest Dry Gin."
As a medicinal spirit Crystal Court is pre-eminent . . . because it’s pure.
As a bracing tonic it is the favorite of all men . . . because it's pure.
As the basis of any mixed drink it is hailed by connoisseurs . * * because
it’s pure.
Crystal Court Dry Gin is obtainable at all Hotel Bars,
Bottle Departments and Licensed Stores.
Many valuable recipes for cocktails and other pleasing drinks are contained in our Tittle?
booklet, "Here's How.’C Ask for a free copy when next you order Crystal Court Gin,
or write direct to Federal Distilleries Pty. Ltd., Port Melbourne.
y
DRY GIN
QUADRUPLE DISTILLED FOR PURITY'S SAKE


ass
:zi
«St
m
Jl
Zj.
dFedy s©r s
STROPS
ITSELF 1.-.:- _
m
m
ASsS
n
I 5
WJk
V,
©QW
y
MS
#
F :: '' : . N
I
fi&S? i Tim
1
•a
*4 Of
«(>r
WCK U
WfJto
©
4S
No. 99 SET. Contains the essentials for -a
perfect “Valet” shave—the razor,
strop and three blades in leather-
ette-covered case
Managing Agents for Australia * —
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
New Zealand Agents:
VAN STAVEREN BROS., Ltd., Auckland, Wellington and Christchurch
3/-
“What does that mean —‘Strops
itself’?”
“There’s ei stropping device built into
the head of the razor —strop just slips
through the razor head!”
“Yes —and then? ”
“Then all you do is run the Valet Auto-
Strop razor to and fro. Click, click—
and the blade is instantly sharpened
without taking it out of the frame.”
“Surely that sharpens only one side
of the edge?”
“No, no both sides are stropped
alternately.”
“Should be pretty sharp when
you’ve finished.”
“Sharp! It’s the keenest razor edge
there is—and it lasts for months.
‘Stropping take long?”
“Ten seconds each morning, and you
get the same principle right through
the Valet range: 3/-, 10/- or 22/6.
All dealers sell them.”
“Good. I’ll get one to-day.”
f
Self
Propelled
i
mmm
m
a
1 m
WM
H
ICi ..
.-A-
-m
* - i*.
1 • *
*■
wm
m
MtEfflsEXm
12ft.
Cut
With a crew of two men, one to drive and one to tend the bagging, the Auto Header will harvest 40 acres in a day, on a petrol
consumption of half a gallon to the acre. '
The Auto Header is renowned for its ability to harvest storm-flattened and thistle-infested crops.
The 4-cylinder engine is available for general belt work on the farm. When fitted with feed table and straw elevator, the Auto Header
makes a very efficient stationary thrasher.
Write for illustrated descriptive catalogue and particulars of price and terms to —
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE.
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES:
664 Bourke Street West, MELBOURNE.
27-39 George Street West, SYDNEY.
95-97 North Terrace, ADELAIDE.
Corner Murray and King Streets, PERTH.
H. V. McKay (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, SOUTH BRISBANE.


For
SPORTING and
TARGET USE
H .1
“HUNTER” Revolver, .22 calibre (as illustrated), 7 chambers, fires .22-calibre Short and
Long cartridges, 10-inch barrel, well balanced, comfortable wood grip. Hade by Harrington
and Richardson. 40/- post free. Length over all, 14 inches.
“EXPERT” .22-calibre, 7-cliamber revolver. Fires .22-calibre Short, Long and Long-rifle
cartridges break action, lOin. barrel. Accurate and reliable. Made by Harrington and Richardson.
Superior quality. Highly recommended. 70/- post free. Length over all, 14 inches.
“ITAXDY GUN,” 410-gauge, single-barrel shot pistol. Throws a close, even pattern. Shoots
ordinary 410-gauge shot-gun cartridges, any size shot. i his is a very popular gun among
motorists and horsemfen. Tt is light, compact and effective. Length of barrel 12 4 - inches.
Automatic ejector model. Length over all, 17 inches. 60/- post free.
Send for “GUXCRAFT” our new 12-page catalogue of Guns and Rifles, crammed full of
interesting information about shooting. Rost free.
THE GUN PEOPLE,
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Q±T Aid
Va
Don't wish for the Best —get it,
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA'S BEST BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” Whisky
AN OLD “SPOT” MELLOWED BY AGE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LTD., Redfern, Sydney. O-
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Great horseman though he is, Jimmy l’ike
gets few mounts compared with very ordi-
nary youngsters a stone and a half or two
stone lighter—it is an indictment of the
Hst. 71b. minimum—so it is a rarity for hnn
to ride a double. This feat he accomplished
in the divided Highweiglit Handicap, six
furlongs, at Roseliill on Saturday, and in
each case he gave a very line exhibition oi
skill and judgment.
In the first division Pike bestrode Fujisan,
an old stager, not so fast off the mark as
he used to be and burdened with list. Gib.
Pike got him away sufficiently well, let him
run in behind speedy squibs for a few fur-
longs, slipped him up on the rails when
they were done with, and thus, gained an
advantage which proved decisive when Pavi-
lion challenged. In the second division his
horse was Luita, swift to leave the barrier
but apt to stop when tackled over the last
bit. In a flash he had her in the lead, and
before slie had gone half the distance she was
six lengths ahead. The other jockeys took
things easily until it dawned on them that
the mare could not be overtaken unless she
broke down or fell: then some of them got
flustered and one showed a lofty contempt
for the riding-out rule. Each ot: 1 ike s
mounts was a G-to-4 favorite, but that wasn t
the only reason why he was so heartily
applauded.
Bartle also got two favorites home in the
divisions of the Maiden Handicap Stained
(5 to 2) in the first and Incentive (6 to 4)
in the other. So for once the bookmakers
had a genuinely bad day. Bartle was also
on the likely-looking Firbolg (G to 1), who
dead-lieated with King Grow (4 to 1)
in the Three-year-old Handicap. King
Crow, who is owned by Alf Levy,
a former bookmaker who made liis money
at Kalgoorlie, ran wide and interfered
with Firbolg, but Hunter White, the
latter’s owner, would not protest. Crowley,
rider of King Crow, was on Bawn-na*glas (. i
to 1), winner of the Carlingford Mile, m
which the favorites, Golden Music and Per-
ception, shaped horribly.
Spearshot was withdrawn from the Rose-
hill Handicap—he will keep. This Page had
grown rather tired of backing Lord Kenna-
quhair (5 to 1), but it risked another ticket
on him, and this time lie won rathei; hand-
somely. Tarapunga (G to 1) was going a
bit faster at the finish, but there was halt
a length between. Kavalli looked a bit burly,
and it was surprising to see him backed
down to 5 to 2. He run ft good third, and
should by no means be left out of considera-
tion for the Metrop., in which he has Tst. Gib.
For Roseliill on Saturday:
Dundas Handicap: Ramulus or Aussie:
next, Quince. ~ .
Granville Stakes: Palamon : next, Gallant
Top.
August Handicap: Spearsliot; next,
Ravalli or Bacchus.
Three- and Four-year-old Handicap:
Ramulus or Goldminer; next, Pavilion.
Parramatta Mile: Kavalli or Tidal; next,
Golden Music.
=!s * V *
While -Fujisan whs being hosed down at
Rosehill his young brother, Valparaiso, was
being saddled up for the- King’s Gup on the
Q.T.C.’s Ascot course. Second last year to
Limerick, the dashing son of Valais —Lady
San went one better on this occasion ; he
saw to the pace himself and finished full
of running, clear of the outsiders Royal
Flavor and Guneraft, in 2min. SOlscc. —a
Queensland record for 12 furlongs. Thus
Walter Brunton was fully repaid for sending
his horse to Brisbane, nor can the club have
any regrets at having added £2OOO to King
George’s prize. The crowd was enormous,
and it gave horse, rider (Munro), trainer
(Nailon) and owner a great reception, its
pleasure not being diminished by the fact that
the spirited bay went out favorite at 5 to 2.
>!t * * *
Jack Holt, the Mordialloc (Vic.) trainer,
appears to be getting into swing for a spring
clean-up. On Australian Hurdle Day he nar-
rowly missed landing the Malakoll Stakes
with Highland, who inflicted a sensational
defeat on Gothic at Flemiugton 10 months
ago. Last Saturday the Holt stable took
tin! V.R.C. Three-year-old Handicap at
Flemiugton with Limber Up (Woorak —Queen
Battery), bred and owned by Gerald Buckley,
wealthy owner of broad acres. Punters went
bald-headed for Camargo, and the Magpie
filly firmed from 7 to 2 to 5 to 2. In com-
pany with Amantlius, she cleared out from
the field; but both knocked up, and Limber
Up, who had been lying third, was presented
with control. Ho missed the privilege of an
easy win, for the Adelaide colt Greemcloth
developed wings in the concluding furlong
and ran Limber Up to half a length. Green-
cloth is a brother to Textile, the 1927 Caul-
field Cup hero, and is engaged in the Caul-
field Cup with 7st. and the Melbourne Cup
with 6st. 121 b., Limber Up having 7st. and
(ini:. 131 b. Billy Duncan
was warmly cheered
as he brought Umber
Up back to scale.
The crack jockey had
his license restored
only a few weeks ago. -
When Sandhurst de-
moralised his August
Steeple rivals strength
was added to the con-
tention that riding
tactics employed with
this superb jumper in
the Australian Steeple
were ruinous. He be-
longs to the type that
needs freedom of rein,
whatever weight may
be in the saddle. Sand-
hurst fell over another
competitor at Caul-
field, but when this
occurred he had been
reduced to comparative
listlessness. Through Aliek Fullarton being
injured earlier in the afternoon, Russell
Scobie was engaged at the last moment to
pilot Sandhurst at headquarters. A number
of punters deserted him in consequence, and
3 to 1 could be had at barrier rise, 4 to 1
being taken about Chaumont and Mataug,
and 9 to 2 about Willanjio. Disdaining
his big burden of 12-12, Sandhurst fenced
beautifully and scored as easily as lie had
done in the Grand National. Bright Flare
wrested second honors from the tiring Chau-
mont, to whom Sandhurst conceded nearly
2st. Matang and Willanjic performed inglor-
iously.
Rain overnight and morning showers made
the going rather heavy, and R. T. Paterson
was apprehensive as to how Sir Baton
would handle himself in the August Hurdle.
However, the Eaton Lad gelding headed
betting quotes. He never was in the hunt,
and finished a bad last. The boy on Rakwool
(5 to 1) foolishly engaged in a duel with
Broadblade. These candidates exhausted
themselves, and Batalus, improving remark-
ably on his form at Caulfield a week before,
won decisively from Swig and Tirade. Enter-
ing the straight Batalus (7 to 1) crossed
sharply in front of Swig, but the anticipated
protest Wasn’t entered. Not Infallible fell,
and young Fullarton experienced a change
in his fortunes as a jumping rider by sus-
taining a broken collar-bone.
Two successes were registered by little
A. Breasfiey: on David Garrick in the
Apprentices’ Handicap (10 to 1), and Hitu-
chi in the August Handicap (5 to 1). This
lad is coming into prominence as a jockey.
On Hituchi he had made a dead-beat with
King’s Consort at Caulfield. The High-
weight Handicap went to Malinche (7 to 1).
who came on the scene just when imported
Parsec (8 to 1) looked to have the opposition
settled. Parsec is in great galloping shape,
lie carried 10-9. and started from the
extreme outside berth.
For Williamstown on Saturday:—
Underwood Stakes: Highland; next,
Fourth Hand.
August Handicap : Laird o’ Cockpen ; next,
Glynylln.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
What was billed as an international 15-
rounder at Sydney Stadium on Saturday
night turned out the biggest dud of the
season. Contestants were Joe Mollette, a
colored American pug, and A 1 Burke, an
ex-welter champion from Newcastle. Two
rounds settled it, Burke retreating until he
dropped from a body blow and claimed he
had been hit low. Then referee Wallis called
a doctor, who negatived his appeal. Mollette
got tlie verdict. The crowd was too dis-
gusted even to hoot.
H( 5|S ❖ *
John Pesek was in no great hurry
to reach home at Melbourne on Saturday
night, for he permitted Rocky Marshall
to complete five rounds before slam-
ming him gently into the. mat. In the
interim Rocky was allowed all kinds of lati-
tude. The gem of the evening was the appli-
cation of the time-honored Boston crab by
Rocky and the counter by Pesek. Shortly
after'the commencement of the sixth round
John staged his dump, and Rocky gave a
most realistic imitation of » man bowled
over by a motor-car at 75 m.p.h. Five
minutes’ attention brought him lo a shaky
perpendicular, and he was able to stagger
from the ring.
Footbrawl
Saturday was an off-day in Victorian
League football, the stronger teams meeting
the weaker and winning as expected. The
“PLEASE EXPLAIN?”
GOLFER: “Fore!”
BLAND CELESTIAL: “Whaffor?"
only doubtful game was the Melb.-Footscray
collision, on the Metropolitan Ground, but
once Melbourne got into its stride ’Seray’s
early lead was wiped out, and Melbourne
went on to win by 82 points to 41. Seeing
that Footseray had been soundly walloped,
there was little excuse for an excited bar-
racker to jump the fence and smite Stevens,
Footscray’s hefty follower. Of the other
teams, Collingwood smashed Fitzroy with
111 points to 55, Gordon Coventry bringing
his goal tally for the season up to 106; Rich-
mond downed Hawthorn, with 80 points to 5S ;
South Melbourne finished a goal the better o>
Essendon, 94 points to 88 ; Carlton notched
39 points to Geelong’s 25, and St. Kilda
accumulated 132 points to North Melbourne’s
02. St. Kilda, on its own ground, meets
Melbourne next Saturday, and as the loser
almost certainly goes out of the semi-finals a
thrillful game should ensue.
* * * *
“Swan”: Westralian footballers once more
showed that they are kittle cattle on their
own stamping ground by beating South Aus-
tralia in, Perth in two consecutive matches.
The Gropers won the first by 101-96, but
ran away in the second, winning by 94 to 45
—6 goals 2 beliinds were tacked on in the
last quarter. As -the Westerners won one
of their two games against Victoria, and their
schoolboys have beaten the pick of Vic. and
S.A., they can claim to have done themselves
well in their centenary year.
* * *
“N.V.S.”: At Launceston, North Tassy
recently defeated South in the 72nd game
of a series which has been running since
ISS3 —there was a 1914-18 interregnum.
The Southerners have triumphed 51 times.
Of North’s IS wins, 17 have been won at
home and three games have been drawn.
“P & L”: The N.S.W. Rugby Union
balance-sheet is disappointing, showing as it
does an estimated profit for the season >
£4OO only, though this is admittedly a con-
servative estimate. The fostering, of the
game in Melbourne lias cost the Union £6OO
and in Queensland £lOO. lhat is pro-
bably money well spent, yet considering
the great gates accruing from the visit of the
All Blacks, and the net receipts from that
tour of close on £2OOO, a better showing w:w
expected, even if the Union is sitting on a
™«b balance of £l4OO. There are several
matters in connection with the Union which
require tightening up, and expenditure is one
of them. As an amateur body it naturally
does not desire to pile up large .Credits hut
there is such a thing as having a solid
foundation to work on—even the ult,-i
amateur English Union has long realised the
fact and acted/ upon it.
* * * *
“Quiz”: There is reason for a sardonic
grin *" in the overwhelming civility accorded
by the N.S.W. Rugby League of late to the
Rugby Union, which not so long ago it
heaped with contumely and proper scorn
for its unbusinesslike habits and its mi quit.'
in expecting its players to provide enter-
tainment for the public without being paid
for doing so. This hardly seems the same
crowd which only at. the beginning of the
season reviled the Union to the lull extent
of its vocabulary for outbidding it for the
Svdnev Cricket Ground. Personally, I believe
Hi,. Union should take the Leagues prof-
fered hand, just as in the long ago the prac-
tice rose from the necessity of ensuring that
a casually-met friend would not have a list
free to •‘dong’ one. (Nevertheless, I recall
a tag of Virgil, which some of the old U.i •>.
boys on the Union executive might remem-
ber. It runs “Timeo Danaos ei dona
fcrcntes.”
:J: * * *
“ Amateur Pro.”: Wonderful how the
N.S.W. Rugby League has got the wind up
since the great success of the All Black
visit to Australia. One of its Sydney press
partisans hysterically demanded the. otnei
day that a French League team be invited
to Australia and failing that a South African
side. Considering that neither France imr
South Africa has permitted the profes-
sional code to intrude within its boundaries
since its inception, and that professional
sport of any kind is frowned on in both
places, the " pious aspiration promises to
go unsatisfied. Still, as tlie advocate remarks,
while pointing out that the League s Sydney
programme, next year will contrast most
unfavorably with the Rugby Union’s inter-
national hill of fare, “the great point is
that something must be done —and quickly
too.”
* * up *
“Old Q.”: There is a flavor of the past
in the news that the Now England Rugby
Union is trying* to arrange a couple oi? e#nu-
of-the-season matches with Queensland, with,
perhaps, a return game at Armidale. In
the palmy days of the Union game m the
North, it was almost a regular thing that
the Queensland side invading N.S.W. for
that year should hop off the tram, going or
coming, and have it out with the New Eng-
landers. The local players frequently figured
in intcr-State and international games, and
a renewal of the old friendly hostilities
should do both sides a lot of good.
(Continued on page Jj t .)
“Adelaide”: The four from S.A. selected
for Australia’s bowling team in England
next year are all experienced men. Rossiter
went in 1922, was sent to M.L. last summer,
and lias also, like the others, , played at
Suva. Incidentally, Lee is one of Tatter-
sail’s iClub committee, and Entwistle an ex-
alderman of the city of Adelaide.
* * * *
“Brow, Bay and Tray”: The latest of the
fine old sports to feel the encroachment of a
pernickety modernity is stag-hunting not to
be confused with the Cockney sport of deer-
hunting, please. There are now only two
packs of hounds indulging in the genuine and
original Sport of Kings, the hunting of the
wild deer: the Devon and Somerset and the
Quantock. Stag-hunting is a much more
stately ceremonial than the pursuit of the
fox. First a stag of the necessary quality
has to be located by an important official,
the harborer. In due course the harborer
is followed by the pricker, whose job it is to
start the stag from his lair with the aid of
a special breed of spaniels and then lay the
hounds proper on to the slot. When the
stag at length bays up ho has to be cere-
moniously approached for the throat-cutting,
this last being a signal honor conferred only
on those worthy of it. That is all finished.
In future hounds are to be whipped off when
the stag embays, and a pistol is to be used
for the finale in place of the historical
couteau de chassc. No doubt, instead of the
mort being sounded on a horn as in the days
of flic Norman kings, the quarry will draw
his last breath to the accompaniment of jazz
played on a saxophone.
THE BENEFIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The stewards decided to give the connections of
the horse the benefit of the doubt.” —Any old many
inquiry.
It was a jockey anti his liorsti
That seemed to lose celerity
finite suddenly upon their course
As, with a strange temerity,
The rider gathered in the rein
And “reefed” with all the might ot him,
Till strong men sobbed aloud their pain
And gibbered at the sight of him.
The verdict was: “A little bit
Of doubt; so take the benefit.
It was an owner and his steed,
And he, it seemed (the trainer, too),
Though not precisely soaked in greed
Yet sought a cunning gain or two;
At six to four his horse ran ill,
While tens, ’twas found, just suited it;
He vowed it was a bitter pill
To find the crowd had hooted it.
The verdict was: “The circs, permit
Some doubt; you get the benefit.
Dear Lord, a-mauy things we’ve done
That we would be undoing now ;
But oh! the race we might have run
With little need for rueing now.
If stewards such as these there lurked
Upon the heavenly tracks for us,
So blind to all the “jokes” we worked,
There'd be no red-hot racks for us..
The faintest, most indefinite
Of doubts would save us from the lit,
If we could get the benefit.
QUEENSLAND.
HASEN.


THERE is a magnavox for every type of set
MAGNAVCX
DYNAMIC
/PEAKED/
The Mag'navox record is one of sus-
tained leadership in the loud-speaker
field. In 1911 Mag'navox made the
original loud speaker. In 1926 Mag'-
navox created the original
modern dynamic speaker. And
to-day Mag'navox stands alone
...a leader...the only speaker
capable of flawlessly re-
creating music or voice as
it is heard in the broad-
casting studio.
Remember ...there is
only one test...the
acid test of com-
parison. You are asked to
Hear the incomparable
Mag'navox Speaker
against any other type
of speaker you choose
to name...inMick Sim-
mons' modern audi-
tion rooms... in the
privacy of your
own Home...or at
any recognised
radio store.
H earing
alone is
believ-
ing'.
The NeW
MAGNAVOX DYNAMIC
UNIT No. 9
ƒd
Price , £6/5/-
Operates from
any Electric Set
employing a 280-
type Valve.
Other Magnavox
Dynamic Speaker
Units from £5/15/-
The Beautiful
ARISTOCRAT
For “A” Battery
Operation,
£l3/10/-
For “A.C.”
Power-point
Operation,
£l4/-/-
£l5/10/-
Other M agnav ox
Cabinet Models from
£B .
ďf
Wholesale and Retail JSLacjaavox Ristvibtitovs .*
MkkSimmonsIid
HEADQUARTERS. 720 H A Y M A R K E T, SYDNEY.
INSIST ON A MAGNAVOX DYNAMIC IN THE
SET YOU BUY


W. W. GREENER
GUNS
For Quality,
Durability,
Price.
W. W. GREENER, LTD.,
BIRMINGHAM.
Wholesale Australian Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.,
405-07 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Catalogues on application.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street. SYDNEY.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
ft®*
FOP MOPE
MILES
TO THE
GALLON
Wholesale Agents and Stockists:
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
284 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Bert ; "Puuu him in sect.'
G6RT-'"leave me to it "
BERT:"KLONe SHE O'O 'T "
GiERT : '\T£> ALL YOUR FMJL.Tj I
Didn't want to come
Fishing
footbrawl
The Rugby Union grade competitions in
Sydney, now drawing to a close, supplied
some brilliant football on Saturday, the
game between Randwick and W estern
Suburbs at the Cricket Ground being, per-
haps, the best exhibition of Rugby seen in
Sydney this season. Randwick won 11-9,
after scores had been 9-3 against it at
half-time. Both sets of forwards and backs
were at their top, witli the brilliant Cross-
man. who scored two of Randwick’s three tries,
the star of the 30. University and Northern
Suburbs provided another clever tussle at
North Sydney, and only the failure of the
Students' to stay prevented them winning.
As it was, they held the leaders to a 17-17
draw, the deadly line-finding of Ross sorely
bothering North. St. George again made good
at Uni. Oval, beating Glebe-Balmain 23-19,
and tacking on 15 points to 8 in the second
spell. The Saints have now a fine forward
side and a clever full-back in Farleigh.
.Manly, at home, was too solid for the Young
Men, winning by 27 to 17. Abbott was the
hero of the day, scoring 19 points for the
Village—4 tries, two bon verted, and a pen-
alty goal. Greatorex and Cerutti fought vali-
antly for Y. Emma. The Police repeated
last week's success by downing Eastern
Suburbs, 12-8, at Coogee. The victory
would have been better deserved if two of
the Bluebirds had not been sent oft for
stoush. One round remains to be, played
before the final, and choice seems to lie
between West and North.
* * * *
The Rugby premiership of the N.S.W.
Great Public Schools was annexed by Syd-
ney Grammar on Saturday, the Black and
Gold side winning from North Shore Gram-
mar by 25-9. Grammar had an unbeaten
record throughout the season, and was due
for a win—this was the first since 1924.
Illness lias interfered with the competition
this year, St. Ignatius having to forfeit three
matches, though these did not affect the issue.
* * *
“Gate”: The M.L. Rugby Union, having
to guarantee the coming British tour, is,
perhaps, entitled to call the tune. Still, the
terms on which it is allotting matches
to Australia are somewhat onesided—so per
cent, of the net receipts of all matches. As
the gates in Sydney, and perhaps in Bris-
bane, are likely to far exceed anything pos-
sible in the Dominion, it looks as if this side
of the Tasman is going to find the larger
proportion of the tour's profits.
* * * *
“Hooker”: The proposal at a recent meet-
ing of the N.S.W. Rugby Union that the
British team which is due in M.L. and Aus-
tralia next season should be pitted against
a combined Australian and M.L. side seems
to have found favor with the Australian
authorities. Though they have said nothing
as yet, it is good betting that the x\ll Blacks
will have none of the scheme. It was mooted
in pre-war days, when Bedell-Sivriglit’s side
and the Anglo-Welsh team were here, but
the Maorilanders, then deemed invincible,
flouted the suggestion. In any case, there is
nothing to be gained by such an amalga-
mation. M.L. and Australia play different
styles of Rugby, while the team formations
differ in important particulars. The Maori-
land players would have to be asked to give
up their peculiar scrum formation, with the
wing forward and the three halves, or Aus-
tralians to consent to the abandonment of
the three-in-front scrum and the four three-
quarter line, to which they are accustomed.
* * * *
“Lock”: For some reason or other the
N.S.W. football season, drawing to a close,
has been prolific of unfortunate incidents.
Slack discipline on the part of the control-
ling bodies has been responsible. Not only
have the Rugby League and its Australian
Rules confrere showed that they are afraid
to take stern action for fear of offending
supporters, but the amateur Rugby Union
lias also backed down when faced with call-
ing a bluff —the Bartley-Northern Suburbs
case early in the season is a notable
instance, 'it-is reassuring to note 'the man-
ner in which Glebe-Balmain has dealt with
several of its players who not only failed
to turn up for a recent match but gave
no notice. They have been deprived of mem-
bership rights, and there is a consensus ot
opinion that other clubs and the Union itself
would be well advised to turn a sterner front
on individuals and clubs guilty of similar
infringements of discipline.
~* * *
South Sydney took the minor premiership
of the N.S.W. Rugby League on Saturday
with an easy win from University, scoring
5 tries and 5 goals (25) to a penalty goal
(2). Wearing and Why enjoyed themselves
for South against the weak opposition, while
Hanrahan again stood out as Uni. s only
back. The surprise of the round was New-
town's runaway victory over North Sydney,
the Blues winning by 1G to 5, thanks largely
to Kessey, a speedy winger, who scored •>
tries. Balmain, thanks to a good final rally,
squeezed home from Eastern Suburbs by IS
to 17. and Western Suburbs beat Glebe by
25-15. South Sydney, St. George, Western
Suburbs and Newtown are the four left m
the semi-finals for the major premiership.
* * * *
“Old Q.” : Queenslanders who welcome the
split between the Queensland Rugby League
and its ungrateful offspring of Brisbane
as the beginning of a desirable end to
an unnecessary phase of professional spoi\.
are, at the same time, backing the Queens-
land body in its refusal to permit the N.BA\ .
League to intrude in its domestic affairs.
To the N.S.W. body, butting m out of ns
turn, as usual, the reply has been returned
that the dispute is one for the joint board
of control to settle. That is quite the right
attitude, even if the fact that the board has
jurisdiction over only a section of the foot-
ball played in two out of the six Australian
States has its humorous aspects.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Victorian Soccer footballers
are regarding their State’s Australian-Rules
Football Association with a malevolent eye.
Recently the latter received a letter
addressed to the A.F.A. from Italy, asking
if a tour could be arranged for an Italian
team. It was obvious that the _ letter was
intended for the Australian British 1 oot-
ball Association, which has its headquarters
in Melbourne, and it is a matter of common
knowledge that Mussolini’s men play only
Rugby Union and the British Association
game— colloquially known as “soccer. Let
the chairman of' the Victorian Ass loftily
remarked that lie did not think Ihe Aus-
tralian game was played m Italy, and the
letter was basketed. The A ictorian soe-
cerites reckon that common courtesy would
have suggested the transfer of the missive
to themselves, and most people will agree
with them.
Racquet and Bawl
The first intcr-Statc tennis match of the
season between Queensland and N.k.W. at
Brisbane saw the visitors win m the men s
events by 12 rubbers to 7, the games going
‘>l4 to 178 The women drew, 4 rubbers au,
though N.S.W. scored 111 games to lOC.
Hopman was hard put to it to beat Gnnsted
two sets out of three, but Crawford made
short work of Cummings in two straight sets.
Moon was too good for V ard. but the Welsh-
men took all the doubles. The shock of the
day was. the defeat of Miss Cox in two sets
out of three by Mrs. Molesworth.
*
“Amateur Pro.”: It is amusing to note
the endeavors of some Australian tennis
organisations to limit the fees for exhibiting
professionals. The supreme authority has
laid down a maximum of £25 for one day
and of £5O for two days. What is to
happen if the pro. carries on for a week
it; not. stated; in any case, il is a matter
of supply and demand. If a prominent
racketeer' is ardently desired as the. super-
attraction for a tournament from which the
promoters are sure of collecting much brass,
the gentleman, is much more likely to stand
out for a percentage than a fixed fee, and
with complaisant officials what is to prevent
him getting it?
* * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The N.S.W. tennis
heads, who are always getting incensed about
something or other, arc now up in arms
because the Australian authorities have
turned flown the proposal that junior events
for girls should be included in the national
championships. It is high time some stand
was taken against the rising tide of flapper-
dom. The immature female of the species
has invaded nearly every- other form or
sport to the extent, of becoming a nuisance
on the field and a nightmare in the illustrated
press.
1 * * * *
“Lensky”: That Moscow menace (B.
14/8/’29) has extended to tennis. Recently
a N.S.W. organisation known as the Fair-
field Hard Courts Association resolved to
shake off the bonds of the State governing
body and follow a furrow of its own. The
revolutionaries have been declared black,
and orders have been given by the oppressors
that, their district is to be cut up between
two neighboring associations. However, the
insurgents have announced that they have
whips of cash and any amount of sup-
port from the nobility, gentry, and plain
proletariat of the Fairfield district, and
that the State authorities will be resisted to
the last ditch.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Sandringham" : After their ignominious
showing in the Victorian championships, the
N.S.W. golfers redeemed themselves by
retaining the Kirk-Windeyer Cup in Mel-
bourne. In the first round against the V ic-
torians the Cornstalks won by 34 matches
to 24. Against the Maorilanders, the holders
were two up in the foursomes on the first
day’s play. The singles provided a great
battle, in which Eric Apperly astonished
everyone, including himself, perhaps, by
beating Sloan Morpeth, Victorian amateur
and M.L. open champion, 7 up. Morrison
squared with Ross, while Black and Horton
won from Keane and Fawcett, N.S.W., thus
hanging on to the pot by another 34 to
24 score.
“Divot Digger”: Last week a host of
Sydney husbands got their own breakfasts
out of tins, and dined at the most accessible
counter lunch. Buttons remained a.w.l. from
countless pairs of pants, and children went
unspanked. All this because Sydney golfing
femininity was out at Rose Bay from day-
light to dark, eagerly watching the progress
of the N.S.W. women’s golf championship in
the intervals of posing for the photographers
from the daily papers. However, there was
a lot of good golf shown, and the victory
of Mrs. Clements, who won from Mrs. Mor-
gan, 3 and 2, was an exceptionally meritori-
ous performance. A perfect stylist, this is
the winner’s first championship, though she
was runner-up to Mrs. Slack last year, and
got as far as the semi-finals ini 1927. Three
down to her opponent at the finish of the
morning round, she made a splendid recovery
in a fighting match, picking up 6 holes to
the 34th.
“Trevdee”: Len Ndttlefold, of Tasmania,
owns a pipe which is becoming as famous in
the golf«world as Stanley Baldwin’s is in
the political. Len invariably places his pipe
on the ground a few inches from his ball
when making a shot. Probably it is done to
help him find direction, but it kept the gallery
guessing during the recent' Victorian amateur
championship.
... #
“Fagin”: Those who have suffered from
the depredations of golf-ball stealers on such
Australian courses as Moore Park will wel-
come the news of some recent convictions
at Swansea in Wales. A caddie employed
at the Swansea Club pleaded guilty to steal-
ing 112 balls and was convicted. Better
still, three members of the club were con-
victed of receiving, knowing that the balls
which they had purchased from the youth
had been‘stolen. A few youngsters have
been convicted in Australia for ball stealing,
but so far none of the players who make
the theft worth while by creating a, market
for the stolen goods have been lumbered.
jJ: s)c *•*
“Miramar” : Notable among the Maoriland
professionals who came over for the Aus-
tralian open championship in Adelaide is
E. C. Douglas, of Maungakickie, who was
ML. open champion in 1913-14, 1919 and
1921. After the 1921 contest lie went to
England, and lius only recently returned He
stands right over the ball, using very short
clubs. E. d. Moss, also in the party, was M L.
open champion in 1924 and 1927, and three
times professional title-holder. He is a very
deliberate and steady player, and is well
known in Australia. A. J. Shaw, train
Napier, won the open in 1926, and was run-
ner-up to Sloan Morpeth last year. He is
a fast player, in strong contrast to Moss.
J. Mclntosh hails from Palmerston North,
and won the M.L. professional title in 19_i».
He is reckoned a better match than medal
player, and gets a very long ball with all
shots.
* * *
“Delia” : Either American golf addicts
are the limit in lunacy or American goli
writers are in a class by themselves as com-
pilers of artistic detail. A leading American
golfing journal asserts that a Chicago lawyer-
millionaire named Austrian recently offered
his club professional 10,000 dahlers if ue
would teach him to break 80. The pro.
worked for months until the task was accom-
plished. When the cheque was handed over
curiosity got the better of him. “Why, no
said, “were you willing to pay such a wad tor
such a trifling matter?” Said his triumph-
ant pupil: “I'll tell you. It was to win a
five-dollar bet with my wife.”
* * * *
“Xon” • Peter O’Hara, who finished eighth
in the American open golf championship,
only seven strokes behind Bobby Jones,
is a native of Brighton (Vic.)- A son
of Dr. O’Hara, of Oollins-street. he was
educated first at Brighton Grammar, and
later at Ballarat Grammar. An all-round
sportsman, he played an excellent game or
tennis and was a good free-hitting batsman.
He was a breezy, care-free individual, and his
method of choosing a career was typical. One
day, when things were fairly dull in class,
he tossed a coin to determine whether he
would “go on the land” or adopt golf as
a profession. The spin favored the latter,
and soon afterwards he left for America.
“Centurion”: An Australian golfer of pro-
minence has returned from the U.S.A. with
the information that American golfers are
distinguished by their self-confidence. I am
sure it is so. Playing a round against my
Anglo-Saxon friend from Hoboken, Aaron S.
Ivolkewitcli, I was assured that “a bahx
o' bahlls will change ban’s ’tween you an me
w’en Ah get goin’.” He was right. Both out
caddies were sons of A.I.F. cobbers of the
writer. Possibly Aaron’s confidence got on
their nerves. Anyway I won, 3 up and 2,
the box of balls changing hands all right.
Aaron is still confident that: this time lie
was up against it.
(Continued on next page.)


Follow the advice of experienced motorists who
have proved B.E.S. Spark Plugs perfect under
all conditions. Equip your car and ensure
efficient ignition. Fully guaranteed. All garages.
Price 4/6.
Manufactured by
Australian Spark Plugs Pty., Ltd.
562 Spencer Street, Melbourne, C.i.
’Phones: F 4947, F 5961.
23.
POUNDS OF PENNIES
* Take care of the pennies, and the pounds will take care of
themselves. There is more in that old saying than perhaps
you realise. Pennies are more easily come by than pounds;
they are more easily saved, for a penn’orth of self-denial is
easier to practise than a pound’s worth at a time.
Think it out—better still, try it out —the steady, sincere saving
of the small coins; the practical appreciation of the small
things and their cumulative value.
Turn your pennies into pounds by the aid of a Commonwealth
Savings Account and the 4 per cent, per annum interest it pays.
fainonwealtl) SavmasJßank of Australia
( Guaranteed, by the Commonwealth Government).
Macmillan's
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
boohs are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
SIR AUREL STEIN.
On Alexander’s Track to the
Indus
Personal Narrative of Explora-
tions on the North-West Frontier
of India. Illustrated. 21s. net.
Daily News: “An exceedingly interesting
chapter of the geography of history. To read
the description of the precipitous country
through which Alexander marched, and to studv
the wonderful photographs in this book, is to
realise, as one never did before, what obstacles
the genius of that great soldier triumphantly
overcame.”
CANON STREETER'S NEW ~BOOK~
The Primitive Church
Studied with special reference
to the origins of the Christian
Ministry. By Canon BURNETT
H. STREETER, author of "The
Four Gospels: a Study in
Origins,” “Reality,” etc. Bs. 6d.
net.
The Next Ten Years
In British Social and Economic Policy.
By G. D. H. Cole, University
Reader in Economics, Oxford,
author of "Self-Government in
Industry,” “The World of
Labor," etc. 15s- net.
A revaluation and restatement
of Labor and Socialist policy,
with suggestions for a definite
Legislative Programme.
The Problem of Industrial
Relations
And Other Lectures. By HENRY
CLAY, M.A., author of “Eco-
nomics: an Introduction for the
General Reader.” 1 2s. net.
Times Literary Supplement: “The whole
volume has the value of sober and reasoned
analysis by a competent economist of many
questions that confront us all to-day.”
To bo Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON. W.C.2.
Can You Write Music?
It pays—Why not learn to earn?
Dod’s Simplified Practical Harmony will
teach you easily and quickly.
Write G. H7SWANTON,
Box 903, G.P.0., Melbourne.
THE PATRIOT
BCHRECT MEDIUM WOMEN!
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HfNCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
//
fj
/ . x
BUI
& Scalds
IT is immediate ease you require.
Zam-Buk is splendid for quickly
subduing the pain. Only, after dress-
ing with Zam-Buk, be sure to quickly
cover up with lint to exclude air.
Zam-Buk is remarkably soothing
to the painful skin. It comforts and
cools and takes out all ‘fire* and im*
tation. Biing highly antiseptic,
Zam-Buk kills bad germs and thus
prevents formation of pus, festering
and poisoning. Zam-Buk soon covers
up the broken tissues with a growth
of new healthy skin.
You may need Zam-Buk at any moment
Keep it always handy for cuts, burns, scalds,
eczema, ulcers, bad lews, poisoned wounds,
ringworm, scalp disease, piles, etc.
amßuk
1/6 box & 3/6 family size.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”: Kaye Don, who is to make an
attempt on Major Segrave’s speed record in a
specially designed Sunbeam, put up a world’s
record for a mile run from a standing start
at Rrooklands the other day, getting over the
distance at the rate of 100.77 m.p.h. The
car was the same supercharged 12-cylinder
’bus in which Segrave put up his 140-mile-
per-hour average at Boulogne three years
ago—a striking testimony to British work-
manship, since the life of the average racing
car is a short and merry one.
* * * *
“Disc Clutch”: There was an unusual
finish to the non-stop run of 440 hours and
40 minutes on the Indianapolis speedway
by a Marmon stock car. The car was driven
bv relays of drivers, petrol, oil and water
being furnished while on the move from a
“mother” machine. A tornado burst on the
speedway on the evening of the nineteenth
day and piled the roofs of the grandstands
and other oddments on the track, thus com-
pelling a stop.
* * * *
“Hoppit”: Wayfarers on the North Syd-
ney Military-road (B. 14/S/’29) are not
the only ones who have to watch their step.
Pringle, of Melbourne, has equalled Val-
lance’s feat by driving his Rudge motor-cycle
over the measured quarter in 9sec., while a
mate took only 9 4-ssec. over the same run
with a side-car. The times were 100 and
91.83 m.p.h. respectively.
* * * *
“Buzz”: Simcoek, the Australian motor-
cyclist. scored a notable win in the Aus-
trian Grand Prix for the greatest distance
traversed m six hours. Riding an English-
bujilt machine he covered 586$ kilometres, or
367 miles, in the time, a great performance
for a road ride. Simcock has had a trot
of seconds, mostly to Dodson, this year, so
the win may presage better luck during the
rest of the season.
H 1 * * *
. “Dover”: The latest cross-Channel imbe-
cility has been a trip from Dover to Calais
and back on a motor-cycle by one H. S.
Perry. Except that the machine was fitted
with a couple of floats, details are lacking.
Whether the voyager utilised the ordinary
wheels of the machine to pull him through
the water or had his mount fitted with
special paddles is one of those things that
remain wrapped in mystery. However, he
lunched without disembarking in Calais
harbor and came back on a non-stop run. It
only remains for someone to walk across
the Ditch with a pair of floats on his feet,
and the Channel will have been exploited for
all possible purposes.
* * * *
“Hub”: Maoriland’s most important
cycling event, the Timaru-Christchurch road-
race, has been set down for October 5,
entries closing a fortnight earlier. The
race, founded in 1899, carries the champion-
shin of the Shivery Isles, and is the richest
cycling event run in Australasia in the
matter of prize-money. The course, covering
112 miles, is probably the most varied of its
kind in the world, comprising as it does every
variety of grade and hill climbing in addition
to long stretches on the flat. This year’s
entry will include H. G. Watson, who rode
in the Tour de France last year with Hubert
Opperman’s team. Maorilanders would dearly
love to see the mighty Victorian rider have
a cut at their big event in person.
Miscellaneous
“Long Dog”: Sydney’s old friend the tin
hare lifted up its voice in a supplicating
squeak in Brisbane recently, when a denuta-
tion of “sports” urged Premier Moore to
permit the mechanical beast to again couch
on the Brisbane Cricket Ground. The usual
stuff about the increased rent which would
accrue to the trustees was served up, and
the usual oath on a stack of Bibles was
offered that no betting would be permitted.
/The mob was coldly received. The Premier
pointed out that a similar joke had already
been turned down by his Cabinet, and that
he saw no chance of any change of heart.
Murmuring something about a petition with
50,000 signatures, the deputation then oozed
away.
* * * *
“Si Ann”: The most decorous police raid
in history occurred recently in Shanghai. A
local Monte Carlo had been raided previously,
but its multitude of secret exits enabled
most of the crowd to get away. This time
the police made no attempt to enter the
building. At the zero hour of midnight the
Rod Marias quietly drove up. Scores of
men leapt out. and, placing trestles in
the street, swiftly wove barbed-wire between
them. Before any of the 200 people inside
knew, they wore completely surrounded.
Then the police politely advised the pro-
prietor of what had been done and sat down
to wait. The gamblers collected their
winnings or signed chits of their losses,
gathered their coats and furs, and filed out
through the only exit in the barbed-wire
entanglement. As they did so they gave
their names to an inspector while a clerk
checked off their addresses in a directory.
“Green Chequer”: Those untamable
enthusiasts Avho affect the art and mystery
of pigeon flying in Europe are all worked up
over the reported performance of a German
bird which flew from Bucharest to Kaisers-
lautern, a distance of 559 miles, in 13 hours.
That works out at 43 m.p.li., or, as pigeon
fanciers like to measure it, at 1262 yards a
minute. Unless the feathered Fritz stopped
for lunch and a spot, or was winging into a
stiff head wind, there is nothing exceptional
about the time, though the long distance may
be taken into consideration. The speed has
been exceeded in Britain and Australia.
* * * *
“Whizz”: England is all agog over the
international seaplane race for the Schneider
Cup, which will be flown over a triangular
course over the Solent on September 6 and 7.
Contestants have narrowed down to three,
and since the American entry is admittedly
a poor one Britain will have to regard Italy,
winner in 1926, as her most serious rival.
When the Cup was first raced for in 1913
France won with a flying rate of 45 m.p.h.
Britain won in 1927 with 2SI m.p.h.! One
of the Italian machines has done 322 miles
per hour, and the special machines built for
the coming go are expected to break 350.
Speed isn’t everything, however, for there
are acute angle turns in the course: these
require rare skill in negotiating at the ter-
rific speeds maintained. As a sort of suicide
club, the event would appear to have excep-
tional possibilities.
* * * #
“IIotham”: Victorian cricket circles are
mildly excited over the report that E. A.
Macdonald may return from Lancashire on
account of his wife’s health. Still a fine
bowler, Mac. would be an addition to the
Victorian attack for some seasons to come,
for, though now in his 37th year, he is a
proved stayer. Lancashire, for which he has
been the principal means of winning two
county premierships—it is now battling liai-d
for a third —is doing its host to persuade
him to stay where he is.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Australian cricket has
broken out into a regular rash of coaches.
Following on “Nip” Pellew’s appointment in
South Aus., N.S.W. has booked up three,
Ward Prentice, G. L. Garnsey and J. Taylor,
all former inter-State players. These will
assist that hardy veteran Jimmy Searle, who
has been coaching junior players for some
years. Queensland has engaged the dashing
Surrey batsman A. Ducat (“Doocut”), who
will spend part of the year in the northern
State. Victoria is the last to swing into
line, having appointed Don Blackie, Edgar
Mayne and A. E. Liddicut, though these will
act in an honorary capacity only.
* * * *
“Outcast”: As if the lot of the cricket
umpire were not hard enough, some mis-
guided enthusiasts on the N.S.W.C.A. are
trying to make it rockier by amending the
l.b.w. rule so that a batsman may be given
out to a breaking ball which does not pitch
on the wicket. It is proposed to confine the
experiment—if made—to grade cricket. Just
as well. If it were extended to the hordes of
juniors in the great open spaces of Moore
Park and elsewhere the homicide curve for
N.S.W. would look like an impressionist
sketch of the Harbor Bridge in a semi-com-
pleted state.
H. CLOVER, captain of Carlton and leader
of the Victorian representative team
which recently visited Perth and Adel-
aide.
“Blade”: The only country rowing club in
N.S.W. —if one excepts a Northern Rivers
organisation affiliated with the Queensland
Association —is the Nepean River club, with
headquarters at Penrith, which was founded
a year ago. The infant club did itself proud
the other day in its first tilt at a metropolitan
body, when it beat crews from Balmain in
heavy and lightweight maiden fours and in
maiden eights. That is a good beginning, and
should encourage other country centres with
splendid rowing facilities at their command to
form amateur clubs.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: Following on her recent
suspension, Martha Norelius has made a
virtue of necessity and become an open
professional. Whether it will pay her and
others like her better than amateurism is
open to question. Formerly Martha was
able to compete every day in the week m
exhibition swims with other amateurs like
herself; now, as an acknowledged profes-
sional, she is debarred from meeting these
putative lilywhites. Outside coaching, there
is not much in professional swimming in
America, or anywhere else, for that matter.
SLOAN MORPETH, Maoriland open
champion, who wiped the floor with
the opposition in the recent Victorian
amateur golf championship.
. “Bortha Bull.voff” : The Australian hockey
girls are taking their projected tour of
South Africa and Britain in much more
businesslike fashion than the breathless
“Susie Shinguard” (B. 14/8/’29) implies.
Each girl has to put up a guarantee for
£lOO, and has to sign, a declaration that she
will return to Australia at the end of the
tour, and continue to further the interests
of the game here. The team will leave
next May, and will not return until the
following January. The South African tour
will begin on July 9 next, and France, Br 1-
gium and Germany will be visited as well
as Britain.
* * ❖ 4*
“W.W.K.”: Sydney Uni. has a glider club
as well as Geelong (B. 14/8/’29) : the engin-
eering students started it. Gliding was
experimented with long before powered flight
by Lilientbal and the'Wright brothers; in
1931 Orville Wright made the first real sail-
flight of nearly ten minutes. Sailplaning is
different from gliding, inasmuch as altitude
is gained by taking every advantage of
ascending air currents. An extremely deli-
cate and highly developed ’plane is'used;
some of 50ft. span weigh only 3501 b.
Great distances can be covered by experts.
A Viennese, Robert Kronfeld, has glided 94
miles. Edgar Dittmar, a German, holds the
altitude record of more than 2500 feet above
starting point.
* * * *
“Ride Off’’; Australian polo enthusiasts
were badly knocked back the other day when
a cable was received from the American
polo authorities cancelling the visit of the
Australian team to the States. The reason
given was that Great Britain had announced
the sending over of a side this season to
play in the International Challenge Cup,
and that the prior Australian engagement
must, perforce, be postponed until 1931,.
Apart from the. abruptness of the notice, the
American decision has exasperating features.
The Australian team had been chosen, and
not _ only were the players -setting their
affairs in order before leaving on the long
tour, but most of them had incurred con-
siderable expense in purchasing extra ponies
and gear. It is felt that a more considerate
attitude on America’s part would have been
the institution of a triangular tourney.
Jj« SfS
“Third Base’’: The American baseballers
now in Sydney lost no time in proving
themselves class players. After a prelimin-
ary gallop against Newcastle, the visitors
easily defeated South Australia and Victoria.
They were held for the first time by N.S.W.,
a keen match ending in their favor by 4 runs
to 3. In Sax the Americans have a pitcher
of quality, while tire hitting and team
worK shown are also high class. Local
'experts rate them stronger than the Stanford
Uni. side in Australia last year.


fin
f/n
7/
y, 9
A\
/tL
m
m
/
m
'A
#3
m
#:
mm
m
as
4
HE distinction of the MILLS Hat
will win your approval on sight.
The name MILLS rises supreme
in the realm of fashion. It is a
guarantee of equality, of perfect style, ex-
quisite craftsmanship, and, above all, of
durability. Through all weathers, in every
season, the MILLS retains its shape and
smartness.
Ml
x Hat flat suits
uourlersonalhtu
Obtainable at all the
leading Men’s Stores
A
PRODUCT OF UNITED FELT HATS PTY- LTD-


tinder
/ Royal
d
To H.M.
GeorgeV
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company U ml tad
SYDNEY.
I
champagne
Qiarleslleidsiecv
Reims
fcji/ ’****
PELLISSOIM
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Averts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
n Alert Attention to Your 'Needs...
-AMD THOUGHT UPON YOUR COMFORT
is the policy that has placed the Wentworth in the front
rank of Australian hotels. Efficiently managed under the
personal direction of Mrs. H. Maclurcan, it is the centre
of all smart gatherings and the chosen rendezvous of the
leaders in Society.
They appreciate, from personal experience, the real ser-
vice, the luxurious comfort and excellent cuisine for
which the Wentworth definitely sets a standard of
quality. Wire or Write for reservations.
Qhe Wentworth
1 Church Hill,
if Sydney.
NTW
m
52 MacleaySt.
Limited
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT
{Located within the City Boundary, seven
minutes from G.P.O.f
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 150 Rooms, is now open and
features Two-, Three- and Four-
room Suites, each with Bath; also
Single and Double Rooms. Central
Heating, Running Water and
’Phones installed in each room.
Unsurpassed Harbor Views.
Weekly inclusive tariff,
from £5/5/-
Daily, from
Telephone: F 2161 (8 lines); Tele-
graphic address: ‘‘Fifmac, Syd-
ney.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
Kayser
SHEER
CHIFFON
SILK
STOCKINGS
Premier Bavin returned to Sydney on the
Makura last Saturday, and transferred to the
Government launch Premier at Watson’s Bay.
His daughters Nancy and Valerie were there
to meet the smiling little man, and their
brother John Bavin and his popular wife. It
was an impressive demonstration of wel-
come, public and private, and there was no-
thing forced about the joyous note which
prevailed. The Premier’s political opponents
have been prophesying hopefully for months
that, being too debilitated for politics, he
would return as State Chief Justice. Actu-
ally he looks fitter than he has done for years,
and one of his first statements was that he
hadn’t the slightest intention of leaving
politics.
The Killara Golf Ball, at the Wentworth,
was gay with the club’s gold, maroon and
blue, and silhouettes of golfing figures.
Banks of flowers were everywhere and
smilax garlanded the huge pillars.
Poet Mary Gilmore presided at a meet-
ing of those' interested in the Laura Bogue
Luff mail memorial, at the Lyceum Club on
Monday.
Lady de Chair, in her capacity of honorary
president, talked to the members of the
Lyceum Club about the many years she
spent in America in her youth. Her Ex.
also touched on the domestic problem and
the vexed question of its unjustly underrated
status, venturing the opinion that domestic
service was a much higher occupation than
that of a shop-assistant. President Mrs.
A. G. Thomas and Mrs. Muscio voiced the
vote of thanks of the gathering, and Esther
Kahn directed the concluding music.
The University Boat Club decorated the
New Oriental with all the aquatic emblems
for their dance. President Dr. Goodwin Hill
had coaches Fitzhardinge, Middleton and
McKenzie with their wives at the official
table, where a floral “eight” was the centre
of admiration. Meg Coyle was president of
the girls’ committee, and did the honors in a
Paris confection of rose and silver beaded
green georgette.
The wedding of the Percy Crossings’ girl,
Lesley, to Leonard Cameron, of Wellington,
at St. Mark’s, Darling Point, brought an
influx of visitors from the West. The bride,
who just reached to her tall ’groom’s
shoulder, was in vellum lace, even to her
veil, and carried pink flowers. Her atten-
dants, Mrs. Colin Davidson and Ruth
Cameron, eschewed superstition by wearing
new oakleaf-green frocks and hats. Brother
Jack came down from Coonamble to see
that the leading man got the ring at the right
moment.
St. Andrew’s Chapter House was full of
bright and merry faces when the Girls’
Friendly Society held its annual display
and gave exhibitions of physical eulti
choral singing, dancing, handicrafts, etc. All
the nice girls smiled when they received their
certificates of merit from Rear-Admiral
Evans’s wife, who smiled as she presented
them, with her smiling sailor standing beside
her. Archbishop Wright’s lady did the receiv-
ing honors, and presented white and scarlet
roses to the Admiral’s lady.
Poet Mary Gilmore had a birthday on
Friday, and the Fellowship of Australian
Writers gathered to do her honor at the
Lyceum Club. Mary’s warm brown eyes
shone brighter than ever, especially when
Lilian Mitchell sang one of her poems set
to music by Glen McGarrity.
The Wentworth was gay with color and
vibrant with melody on Friday night when
the Field Engineers and Signal Officers’ Mess
gave their sixth annual ball, and the uni-
forms were as_ gladdening to the eye as the
gowns. President Colonel Fewtrill was
assisted in entertaining by his wife, in del-
phinium and silver; among the other officials
were Lieut.-001. Hardie, whose consort was
in amber georgette drapings gleaming with
silver embroideries; Commander Leo Quick
with his lady in soft green chiffon; Colonel
Holland and his pink lace-clad wife; Lieut.-
Col. and Mrs. R. Smith ; Major H. and Mrs.
Armstrong, and Major and Mrs. Armitage.
Sir Dudley de Chair brought daughter
Elaine and son Graham to the Royal Prince
Alfred Yacht Club dance at the Ambassadors.
The guests were received by the Vice-Com-
modore and Mrs. Andrew Wilson, the lady
in orcliid-mauve georgette, gracefully draped ;
Rear-Commodore Arnott and Mrs. Arnott,
xvho was gowned in petal-pink georgette
banded with satin meteor, helped with the
hosting and hostessing.
The N.S.W. Institute of Journalists
held an informal party at the Royal Art
Society exhibition in honor of the Japanese
Trade Commissioner and the visiting jour-
nalist, Mr. Yabe. The latter, who was
“exalted to attend our honorable gathering,”
told in quaint but perfectly intelligible Eng-
lish of his paper, the Osaka Asahi, which
has a daily circulation of three millions and a
staff of 3500 (including 700 reporters), as well
as five aeroplanes and 2000 homer pigeons.
President Lister Lister was duly thanked for
the loan of the gallery, and gave in return
an intimate chat upon the development of
art. Critic William Moore took an interested
coterie around the pictures with him. The
pretty youthful girls in the gathering were
the brightest spots—notably Fisheries’ expert
David Stead’s Kate and YVelta, and Referee
editor Davis’s Joan.
The Sydney University Dramatic Society
gave a dance in the Union Refectory last
week. It was a bright show, organised by
president John Dingle, who decorated the
electric-lights to look like Arabian Nights’
lanterns, and hung humorous and grotesque
masks around the hall over flags borrowed
from the architectural faculty. The presi-
dent’s party numbered 30 and included his
sisters: Mollie, with a shoulder poesy of
nasturtiums on her graceful lemon meteor
frock, and Genevieve, in sea-foam green
georgette and silk lace. Others were Mr.
and Mrs. T- G. Millner, she in a Paris frock
entirely of white crystals, except for the
bright-head roses in the skirt godets; Mrs.
M. E. Booth, in rosebud spriggod-black
chiffon ; Marje Ramsden, looking like •
Burne-Jones picture in white tulle; petite
Dorothy Laurie, in a tight-bodiced, long-
skirted jade-green georgette frock; her sister
Phyl, in warm rose color; and Anna and
Isabel Gqllett. Elvira Sundstrom, who did
the secretarial work, was in pale blue, and
with sister Thelma entertained a big crowd.
Dr. Marie Bentivoglio came across from the
Teachers’ -College, where the inter-State
visitors were being entertained.
On the next night St. Paul's College
Women’s Organisation substituted wattle
and red roses for the masks and flags, and
used the same rendezvous for a dance in
aid of the college building fund. Mrs.
president Garnsey, Mrs. Frank Albert, Miss
Nell Palfreyman and Miss L. King welcomed
over 300.
Here’s a May Moore picture of Mollie
Kirwan, the striking Lady Macbeth in the
Francis Jack-
son Sha k s-
peare Reper-
tory Society.
Mollie, with
her rich
voice and
impressive
eye, is well
equipped for
tragedy, which
is why the
Turret Theatre
starred her
in its recent
production of
Clemence
Dane’s fantas-
tic and eerie
“Granite.” She
portrayed
Judith, heed-
less of man
and devil, and
henceinvulner-
able, until the lightning of fear splintered the
granite of her character.
The Alliance Frangaise, which intends to
have a social and intellectual renaissance,
began the spring campaign in the iEolian
Hall with a moving-picture-illustrated lec-
ture on the Belgian Congo. The Belgian
Consul, General Segaert, delivered the ad-
dress. The next event will be a ball at the
Wentworth on Sept. 2 to entertain the
Admiral and officers of the Tourville.
The Wentworth was pleasantly crowded
for the first of the summer teas inaugu-
rated last week. A special party was given
by Mrs. Harry Burrell in honor of Sylvia
YVatson, whose marriage with Dr. E. J.
Baxter will take place to-morrow.
The Master Builders’ Association and
Builders’ Exchange were represented by eight
branches at their ball at the Wentworth. The
decorations were lavish; the senior vice-
president of the Master Builders, Mr. H. W.
Thompson, brought Mrs. Thompson in a gown
of black mariette. Mr. H. M. Driscoll,
president of the Builders’ Exchange, was a
guest at the official table. Mr. and Mrs.
George Travis, Mr. and Mrs. L. B. Beagley
and Mr. and Mrs. Dumbrell presided over
large parties.
The Royal Prince Alfred Hospital should
harvest a worth-while cheque from the tenth
annual Bankers’ Ball, which drew 1000
or so to David Jones’s ballroom. The Gover-
nor was there, and found time for a talk
with Dr. Cecil Purser and a . knot of the
banking heads before Lady de Chair and
Elaine arrived from the Lyceum Club. Her
Ex. wore an elegant confection of turquoise
taffetas and Paris-tinted lace; Elaine’s
charming frock was of chartreuse-green
velvet and faille.
Mrs. Gunther and the Misses Beryl Earn-
sliaw, Peggy Bullmore and Rosemary Forbes-
Maekay have arranged a bridge party to
defray the expenses of the Medical Society
Ball in aid of the libraries of the teaching-
hospitals. It will be held at David Jones's
on the afternoon of August 29.
Jean, the tall, slim, youngest girl of Dr.
Fred Langton, of Centennial Park, is sport-
ing a three-stone diamond ring as a guaran-
tee of her readiness to become Mrs. Lance
R. S. Coome in the near future. The bride-
groom-elect is the only son of the late Jean
Coome, of Noumea.
If you are in the vicinity of the Pitt-street
end of the G.P.O. this week slip across into
Rowe-street and see the exhibition of book-
craft. You may even have the luck to hear
R. W. Fryer lecture on the subject of book
decorations and lettering.
Sydney’s oldest art society, the Royal, is
having a golden jubilee, and hanging in the
show are some
cool and trag-
i' a n t land-
s capes b y
Lilias Garling.
Lilias is the
youngest ex-
hibitor the soci-
ety has ever
admitted, and
Lawson Bal-
four and her
art - loving
father arc, she
says, respon-
sible for her
success. She
has already ex-
hibited with
the \V om e n
Painters, and
on both occa-
sions had the
satisfaction of
having all her
pictures bought.
There were close upon two thousand
at the annual Police Ball at the Palais,
and even guardians of the law who had
perforce to be on their beats, or those on
point duty who waved cars to their desti-
nation, had the satisfaction of knowing that
the relief fund would benefit materially by
the function. Civic Commissioner Garlick
with his lady, in black velvet girded on by'
diamente shoulder-straps, and Chief Secre-
tary Chaffey, whose consort was draped with
beige lace, were in the official party, which
was headed by Police Commissioner Childs,
accompanied by his wife and daughters. Ex-
Commissioner James Mitchell brought along
his broad smile and Mrs. Mitchell, scintil-
lating with crystals from a mauve back-
ground, and his brother-Metropolitan Super-
intendent was close at hand with his spouse.
The Fire Brigade Chief came with Mrs.
Nance. The Governor of Prisons and Mrs.
Seery, the Clerk of the Peace and Mrs. Gon-
salves, the Chief of the C.I. branch and Mrs.
McKay all smiled happily over the pro-
ceedings. The president of the committee,
L. Gavin, had daughter Mabel to hostess his
big party, and secretary 11. C. Randall had
the good offices of his wife in entertaining.
It wa's a magnificent affair, and it wasn’t
hard to pick out members of the force from
the way they towered over the heads of the
great majority of the dancers.
That the best way to get out of an awk
ward situation is to make it humorous was
clearly the opinion of most of the women
who attended the cabaret at the Ambassa-
dors for the St. Gabriel’s Home for Deaf
and Dumb Boys at Castle Hill. An official
announcement was made that no lady over
30 could compete in the old-fashioned waltz
competition; when the laughter had sim-
mered down there were few who didn’t take
the floor with a mute defiance to anyone to
challenge their right to compete. They were
on perfectly safe ground, for they, could,
hardly be expected to carry birth certificates
with them. Under the guidance of one of
the Christian Brothers, three little boys
from' the school gave a demonstration in their
silent language.
Dr. Elma Sandford Morgan talked to the
Citizens’ Association sensibly and forcibly
last week, stressing common abuses that we
all view daily and with little in the way of
protest. Among such hygienic offences are
the serving of cakes and sweets in shops
by hand, the delivery of bread in the same
manner, and the combing of hair in restau-
rants. In 10 minutes she gave the Citizens’
Association plenty to think about.
Professor Mungo MacCallum’s lady was
whole-heartedly returned as president of the
Day Nurseries’ Association at the 24th annual
meeting, held in the kindergarten of the
Eastern Suburbs nursery, one of the youngest
of the association’s establishments. The
society is not yet five years old, but it has
already cared for 12,000 children whose
mothers are forced to go out working. E. R.
Darkness moved the adoption of the annual
report and passed on the Government’s bene-
diction of the good work. Dr. Constanc
D’Arcy pointed out that the nurseries not
only minded the children, but developed their
characters and guarded their health. Nor
was there any danger of the funds beiu-
misapplied, for only genuine working women's
children were taken in.
In the fresh open spaces of Epping th>-
Australian Board of Missions has a training
hostel for women. The spacious house wa-
given by Mr. and Mrs. H. W. Williamson,
and Archbishop Wright blessed tin* building
and dedicated the chapel last week Ten
girls are in residence and receiving special
instruction in nursing, teaching and dome-
tic science to fit them for work in Mela-
nesia or on aboriginal stations. Mis-
Millicent Herring, a B.A. of Melbourne, is
in charge; she worked for over 20 years in
two mission stations of India.
Sister Agnes Kelliher, ex-A.I.F. nurse,
bestowed her quiet efficiency upon Edward
Tolman, of Hobart, at St. Mary's Cathedral,
with Coates, M.L.C., to give her away when
Father Hurley forged the matrimonial link.
The bride braved the August rain in a spring
ensemble of beige, georgette and lace and
covered her Titian hair with a new-leai
green hat. Linda Watson came over from
Tasmania to hold her posy. Mrs. Tolman
has a distinguished war record. She was
lent to nurse wounded poilus, and France
appreciated her services so highly that the
Government bestowed on her tin* Ytedailb
d'Honneur Milltaire, a rare distinction for a
woman. The gentle-voiced sister excelled at
massage, and when she got her discharge
instead of returning to Westralia she
opened massage rooms at the Hotel Australia.
These have evolved into a most up-to-date
beauty parlor. After a honeymoon in Tas
mania, Sister Agnes is going to continue tin
noble work of beautifying her sisters.
What will our beach-guardians do if sun
burnt backs become fashionable in Sydney':
According to the latest American talkie at the
St. James, sunburnt backs must be worn in
town after the season at the seaside; so all
bathing suits are backless. Some shown at tin-
St. James had a deep \ extending from tin
shoulder to the spinal column below the
waist. Others cut square exhibited even a
greater expanse of back; there was just
sufficient material left to circle the arm and
shoulder and hold the thing aloft. Most of
the suits were on plain lines, but one showed
the dressmaker touch in the pleats at. each
side of the skirt. This also had ties about
2Jin. wide coming from the shoulders and
knotted into a bow at the middle of the back,
the long ends reaching to the waist. This
suit was in yellow jersey and the beach
wrap that went with it was in the same
golden shade. A wide-brimmed hat was worn
with a backless beach promenade suit, made
of printed material and cut on the lines of a
man's overall, ankle-length trousers, the
square front coming almost to the neck.
Underneath are the actual bathers. With all
costumes gaily colored rubber scarves are
worn,
A new chapter in the history of human
progress was opened when Jack Sigrist, a
cadet who had met with an accident aboard
the Cunard vessel Valacia, spoke by wire-
less telephony from his bed in Sydney's
Koyal Prince Alfred Hospital with hi-
mother in England. Medical opinion was
that the psychological effect of a talk with
his mother would have a favorable effect on
the youngster—he is IS. His condition im-
proved immediately.
It was a thrilling and unpublished pag*
of history that Captain Chalmers, of
H.M.A.S. Australia, retailed to those bidden
to the official opening of the United Service
Institution’s new rooms. He was attached
to the staff of Admiral Beatty in 1916, and
saw the battle of Jutland from the bridge
of H.M.S. Lion. Quietly and unemotion-
ally, with pink and white chalk and a black-
board for illustrations, he told of the grear
conflict in the North Sea and his audience
listened breathlessly to the story of how
Major Harvey saved the Lion from being
blown up. When the Lion was hit, like the
Queen Mary and the Invincible, all the men
in the gunhouse were killed except Major
Harvey. His legs were shot away, but before
he succumbed he managed to call down the
speaking-tube, “Close the doors and flood the
magazines.” All the men who helped to
carry out the order were found dead at their
posts. The Jutland epic replaced a lectur.
on the Scott Antarctic expedition whieL
Rear-Admiral Evans was prevented from giv-
ing through ’flu. Captain Chalmers alse
deputised in opening the premises officially
Colonel Spain, newspaper-knight Denison
and Chief Commissioner Car lick murmured
their appreciation of the captain’s stirring
story before the floors were cleared for a
dance. Captain Chalmers took the floor with
secretary DanieU’s wife, tall and slim in
brown chiffon over apricot draperies. Colonel
Olding’s tall spouse was enveloped in a swish
cape of gold lame and black velvet. Mrs.
Black graced the occasion in black velvet
and braided ecru net, the long sleeves decid-
edly' Elizabethan. Education Department
Cramp brought along his pretty daughter
Ethel, her flaxen head above a white fox
fur that finished her metal-brocaded wrap.
The Itaynor sisters lent the T.O.Y. house foi
the coffee and iced cakes consumed between
dances.


ifMHgpsra
MMHN|
/£:1 :C : , . .’ J "' j
i
| , '''
■
■ ■
■■
:
a
iMiSt#
-
: ;. "
v
: v/»
H
i ■
■i:
: '.'■
:
i
;!■■■?
m
l
:
ill
:w>"
■
n,
■H
■
. ■
i
m
■i".,
■
9
#s
■ , ->
i m
m
#
m
H
1;
■
m
m
m
#
#
I
’■
.11
FULL FA/fiIONED UQ/lEBY BY
IH
i
mm
mm ■ %
mm 1■ I ■
MH
.


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FTRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
A-
I
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
f
SCIENCE AND LIFE!
Scientific medical research has given to men and women ten years
longer life!
J. he dispensing and delivering of life-saving medicines are daily
occurrences in my business.
Whether you line in Sydney or innermost Australia, I can send, you
all your medical requirements.
Just pin this advertisement to your letter or prescription, and your
medicines will reach you by return mail. ( V.P. or otherwise.)
Gall in personally when next you are in town
W. JAMES ROGERS, Chemist,
355 George Street (opposite G.P.0.), Sydney.
Monday io Friday—
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
From 7.30. Minimum Charge, 10/-
Saturday, Late Gala Night.
Special Table d’HOte Dinner, 21/-, from 7.80.
From 10 o’clock, Special Supper 12/0; or
a la carte, minimum, 12/6
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 to 6, 4/-. Parties of six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 6.80, 5/*
The Ambassadors New Delightful
Dance Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and Rhythm that makes dancing an
effortless pleasure.
-Order Wines before « p.m. ’Phone: JI4ISI-
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckler's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
[?]
It was Flemington’s turn for a race meet-
ing on Saturday. lawns were as strips
of green velvet, with circles of pale mauve,
the breaks being feathery little primulas;
but the weather was a war between sun and
shower. There was a good deal of color about
feminine turnouts; green, with red and
bright blue, was fancied. Gladys Neville
Collins was in tailored raiment, with felt,
millinery of enamel-green hue; Mrs. Mid-
dows, who companioned Mrs. R. Linton,
chose a long velvet coat of myrtle tone allied
to hat and jumper suit of paler shade. Mrs.
T. J. Ryan introduced the magpie effect
with black cloth skirt, fvhite satin blouse
and a black velvet sports coat. Mrs. I’ow-
per, who was with her sister. Miss Nyulasy,
was smartly upholstered in black velvet cut
on cape-coat lines. A rather halting wrap
was of Paisley-patterned satin in pale colors,
the short coat being bordered with fur.
Mrs. A. M. Dale and her daughter Mrs. F.
Bishop and Mrs. E. ,1. Gravestoek were
of the well-groomed also.
• So little does Melb. see of the G.-G. that
people wonder why Priminister Bruce went
to the trouble of bargaining about continu-
ance of the occupation of the mansion on St.
Kilda-road, for which a rent of £2500 a year
is paid to the State Government, apart from
upkeep. Perhaps if Baron Somers is chosen
lo succeed Lord Stonehaven he will be able
to spend portion of the Parliamentary recess
in our city, besides the Cup-time sojourn.
A great affair for young folk was the
annual party given by the O.S.A. The Town
Hall was rendezvous for somewhere about a
thousand boys and girls, and the place wore the
appearance of an indoor fair, with a Punch
and Judy show and a merry-go-round, as
well as “pitchers” and dancing. The inevit-
able paper cap and balloon played a part in
the fun-making, and there was a high tea.
Could any little “commercial” ask for more?
The Town Hall was with verdure clad for
the Liid Mayor’s Ball on Thursday night.
Our new civic building is a difficult hit of
architecture to dress up in carnival array,
and on this occasion, as previously, the gal-
lery was the limit for emblems of rejoicing,
there being no garlands or gay festoons from
the ceilings. The stage was flanked with
an imitation stone wall over which climbed
ivy and creepers to a bank of primulas.
Another wall fronted the choristers’ seats,
which, covered over, formed a garden of
cinerarias with groupings of poinsettias bor-
dered with Chinese primulas at each side.
Heaps of deep pink and white cyclamen with
feathery ferns were raised islands about the
floor beneath the galleries, and the red-
carpeted dais featured a horticultural show
in itself. Bamboo, foliage plants, staghorns
and the like turned a section of the southern
balcony into a romantic bit of Australian
bush beyond a mossy wall. For the rest,
sentimental folk could gather beneath stray
sheltering palms or gum-trees, which flour-
ished at intervals amid rows of chairs and
steps. All the flowers and greenery came in
pots from the Fitzroy Gardens. Quantities
of the first daffodils and tulips of the season
were culled to trim the tables for the official
supper spread in the Council chambers. Birds,
and wine were uncommonly good, and as they
were served in several parts of the building
there was no crowding, though more than
2000 were feasted.
Vice-royalty being absent, the customary
procession was cut out, but Lud Mayor
Luxton, with his gold chain and fur-bordered
mantle, and the aldermen and councillors, in
their black Court attire, buckle shoes, lace
jabots and ruffles, furnished an imposing
sight. Some very attractive dresses were
singled out in the melee of glad rags, especi-
ally those displayed by young girls. One, all
tulle flounces with bodice of taffeta, was of
the loveliest apricot hue; then there was a
creamy floral taffeta bordered with a wide
band of lettuce green; and another on which
the eye rested appreciatively was a pink rose-
spattered stiff silk gown with some gold lace
edging the two flounces <pf the skirt’s front,
the back being quite plain. All three were
long.
Mrs. Luxton was in crimson chiffon featur-
ing many scalloped frills; her bouquet was
lilies of the valley. Her mother, Mrs. W. 11.
Lewis, was in black. Premier McPherson
brought along his daughter, Miss McPherson,
wearing an ivory taffeta frock embroidered
in pink cherries. Other knighthoods were
represented by the Robert Rest couple, the
James Elders, the George Fairbairns (she
iu pale green covered all over with crystal
embroidery) and the Richard Stawells.
The Clarke lady came in black velvet
heavily worked in silver sequins. Mrs.
Russell Clark floated in light - red floral
chiffon draperies. Greens of all shades
found lots of admirers; Mrs. Percy Black-
burn chose a satin robe of the tone of the
blue-gum, and Mrs. Rogers Thomson con-
trasted her white coiffure against an apple-
green chiffon velvet robe. Major-General
Coxen. brought along Mrs. Coxen, who stood
out in her gown of amethyst and mauve bro-
cade. Wing-Commander E. Harrison accom-
panied his decorative wife, set, about in gold
lace. Rear-Admiral Slirubsole, R.N., and
Justice Rae and Mrs. Rae, of Barbadoes,
were among the visitors. Some political
flavor was furnished by Opposition-leader
Hogan and Mrs. Hogan, Richard Hinton and
his wife, the 11. H. Smiths and the R. M.
Cuthbertsons.
Artist Souter’s shamrock sign, which hangs
above the Little Green Shop in the grounds
of St. Vincent’s Hospital, seems as lucky
an omen as his black cat. The annual meet-
ing of the workers who run this multum-in-
parvo emporium was marked by Mrs. James
Alston, the president, handing the inother-
reetress a cheque for £lOO, representing
takings. Three amounts of £lOO have now
been netted by these sales ladies. Mrs. E. O.
MacDevitt and Miss Flanagan were re-
elected secretaries.
Matinee programmes submitted by the
lull-throated Giannini drew full houses. On
Thursday afternoon the singer wore her won-
derful* mediaeval gown with its diaphanous
sleeves of Italian red that fall to mingle
with satin draperies of Madonna blue.
Accompanist Molly Bernstein, also arrayed
in red, was called forward to collect a divi-
dend from the fine horticultural trophies
handed over the primula-bordered footlights
to the star.
Of the offerings passed up to Giannini
on Saturday night was a market basket be-
decked with pussy-willow and wall-flowers,
and filled with choice oranges and apples.
And someone who knew that the singer
would arrange it about her lengthy robe of
violet. velvet decorated another basket all
junk camellias with a big bow to match
the attire. Molly Bernstein, in yellow and
orange flounces, and Sol Deutsch blushed ar
the applause ladled out to them; Molly's
bright eyes twinkled over an armful of
horticulture.
Gertrude Jennings’s comedy “Me and My
Diary” introduced Mrs. Harold Clapp as
tlie titled lady whose little book runs her
close to a libel action. Mrs. Clapp, who also
produced the
well - acted
comedy, was
reminiscent of
Irene Van-
brugh in her
vivacious per-
formance. La-
fayette here
pictures the
lady. The play-
ers, who were
well suited to
their roles
sported ad-
vance spring
fashions. Mrs.
Walter Cass
h a d ostrich
plume trailing
to the waist-
line from a
geranium-pink
toque that
topped a flow-
(■red whitc-and-black gown, and Ninette
Turek was a study in wine-hued lace and
telt millinery. Mrs. Clapp’s bracken-brown
figured chiffon robe dangled a cape and a
serrated flounce; Joan Wisdom was in a
smart navy suit: and Roma Smith looked
smart in pastel-blue velvet.
A contrast to the play in which Mrs.
Clapp figured was the other society offering,
■‘No Flowers Permitted,” in which Mrs.
George Bell and Natalie Wood revived the
crinolines and manners of 1850, and Judy
Finch was the perfect servant of the time.
Patrons of the gala programme at the
Oriental Hotel on Saturday night—bridge
is to be the chief feature—will enjoy the
comfortable feeling that they are getting full
measure for their half-guineas, as well as
helping a deserving charity. The Women’s
Hospital will claim the profits; Mrs. T. V.
Millea and Miss M. Foley are the secre-
taries.
The Best lady and Mrs. George Langridge
poured tea for mutual friends in an interval
of bridge at the Alexandra Club during the
week. Wild heath and wattle dolled up the
reception-rooms of the exclusive rendezvous.
Mrs. Langridge’s amethyst-hued attire was
topped by a hat of black Baku straw, and
her co-hostess wore an ensemble of light
doth and crepe de Chine of fawn tone with
matching felt millinery.
Profits of ihe ball of the Henty Regiment
(37th Battalion), held at the Malvern Town
Hall last week, went to the Royal Victorian
Institute for the Blind. The Mayor of Mal-
vern was president of the committee, with
Lieut,-Colonel R. G. Moss as vice-president
and Lieut. A. V. Bridgman as lion. sec.
The Mayoress, Mrs. Hattam, who was handed
a posy of welcome, drew about her green and
smoke-grey frock a silver brocade coat. Mrs.
R. G. Moss, who shared in the flower distri-
bution, wore georgette draperies of enamel
green. Brigadier-General Blarney, Brigadier-
General Brand and liis daughter and several
lieutenant-colonels were among the dancers.
Howard Carr, pictured here, has been in-
vited by Fritz Hart to conduct bis own “Three
Hero e s” at
the Melbourne
Symphony
Orchestra con-
cert on the
24th. These
sketches were
composed in
1918, and had
their first per-
formance i si
Septembe r
of that year at
the Queen's
Hall Promen-
ade Concerts,
London. Since
then they have
been heard fre-
quently, and
are in the per-
manent reper-
toire of im-
portant Brit-
ish orchestras.
There are three
movements, headed respectively “O’Leary,
V.C.,” “Captain Oates" and “Warnefdrd,
V.C.” Mr. Carr, who lately returned here
under engagement to the J.C.W. firm after
20 years’ absence,- composed music for “The
Lilac Domino” and “The Girl for the Boy,”
both familiar to Australian audiences.
Twenty years ago he wrote the “Butterfly”
and “Bird” ballets, which attracted some
attention in Melbourne pantomimes. He has
published a large number of songs, piano
pieces and orchestral works; also a four-
volume collection of music specially arranged
for picture-theatre use.
A smart hop staged at the Kingston Heath
golf clubhouse, Cheltenham, lately was
dubbed a “Show Your Wife” dance, since
better-halves are not often seen on the links.
The title cut two ways, as the jollo gave
ladies an opportunity to see what sort
of people theft- hubbies go round with.
Apparently there was a good deal of mutual
approval, and merry groups gathered about
the fires of blazing logs that warmed tin-
large rooms, where peach blossoms, Iceland
poppies and jonquils made a gay show. The
management committee included the presi-
dent, Charles Stuart Smith, who brought
Mrs. Smith, clad in filmy black draperies
with lines of black beads. Their daughter
Lola sported a frock of deep beige lace. Mrs.
11. V. Braddock, president of the associates,
chose deep red georgette. Several of the
Maoriland players were dancers.
A bridal group was the star turn of a
dress exhibition the other day. The finery
came from Worth, of Paris. The bride’s
severe w-hite-satin robe was buttoned up the
back with crystal buttons. It was ankle
length, a bit longer behind than in front,
and the sleeves ended at the wrist. Cascades
of white tulle poured from beneath a glisten-
ing juliet cap. The two attendants appeared
in long taffeta frocks of powder blue and
deep mushroom pink respectively, their
bodices featuring the old-fashioned frilled
basque. Floppy hats of Baku straw of mole
color were banded with the blue silk, which
slipped under the brim and hung in the
follow-my-lad mode.
Mrs. A. C. Walkeden, of A rmadale, gave
a dance the other day, at which announce-
ment was made of the engagement of her
third daughter, Sara, to Rupert Shoobridge,
of Hobart. The hop took place at the pretty
kiosk at Fawkner Park, the hostess wearing
black embroidered in gold. Miss Sara Wal-
keden, who was accompanied by her fiance,
received congratulations in a floral chiffon
gown of black splashed with roseate blossoms.
Alison, _ younger daughter of the W. Pul-
teney Mein couple, had her coming-out dance
at the family residence, St. Kilda-road, on
Friday night. Mrs. Mein, clothed in satin
and lace of prune color, introduced the
handsome girl—she i s dark-haired and dark-
eyed—in white chiffon with drooping flounces
aud a cape shoulder drape. Sister Phyllis
set off her brunette coloring with a frock
softly draped of geranium-red tone.
Cars parked about the Hotel Australia
the other afternoon while their fair owners
played bridge for pleasure and profit—St.
Martin’s and St. John’s Boys’ Home bene-
fited. The thing was-engineered by the Mal-
vern Auxiliary, of which Theo Syme is
secretary.
There was splash of scarlet and gold at
No. 9 Darling-street on Thursday night.
Colonel I). A. Luxton and officers of the 2nd
Infantry Brigade called tbe roll for a dance
of which Lieut. S. Jones was honorary
director.
Past and present workers for the Broad-
meadows Home propose to erect a memorial
to the memory of the late Mrs. Benjamin
Hoare, so long associated with this charity.
At the preliminary meeting it was decided t<>
place a brass plate in the infirmary which
was built through the energies of the com-
mittee. Mrs. M. J. Canny, 20 Manning-road,
East Malvern, is treasurer of the fund.
Though members of the Animal Welfare
League have given an impression of inac-
tivity while human wants have been so
many, the society has by no means lost its
enthusiasm. Mrs. Lort Smith and her sister
Marion Montgomery arc especially vigorous
workers in the. cause of the dumb creation,
and Mrs. Arthur Payne, the president, has
sent out upwards of 150 invitations for the
annual meeting, which will be held at her
Toorak residence on Monday, 26th. Some
function will then be arranged to keep
finances healthy. The A.W.L. lends aid to
the Rest Home for Horses and the Lost
Hogs' Home, and any allied interest.
The Society of Friends is preparing to wel-
come Mrs. Bertha Penrose, descendant of an
old English Quaker family, who is coming
this way with her two daughters. Her grand-
father. Lord Peekover, enjoyed the distinc-
tion of being the only Quaker to sit amongst
the Lords. The family seat is in Kent.
The charity matinee at 11 is Majesty's
last week brought in over £7OO, to be shared
between the Women’s Hospital and the
Mayor’s Unemployed Relief Fund. The, pro-
ceeds were further built up by raffles and
sales of sweets and flowers. A trip to Col-
ombo went to the holder of a programme
with a lucky number, and programmes had a
record sale. Professional and amateur talent
mingled in the entertainment. The “Show
Boat” t ied up, while Colin Crane sang “OP
Man River” aided by the male chorus, and
the other leads did their bit. Ada Reeve, as
sunny as ever, sting some new numbers, and
the Tivoli sent along some of its brightest
and best. Voting Australia was well to the
fore with ballets and solo dances. The
dancers, whose ages ranged from 5 to 15.
flitted around in. while tulle to the music of
Chopin. In pale rainbow-tinted tunics and
barefooted, some of the older misses stepped
gracefully in a dance of spring. Further
variety was provided by tbe Juvenile
Embassy Twelve, arrayed in blue, who
blended song and step in “Melancholy
Baby.” In a setting of old-gold satin cur-
tains Minnie Everett introduced several
very clever little dancers in divertissement*
reminiscent of the Pavlova .season. The
whole of the dance, section, save the vocal
interlude, was a slice in miniature from a
programme given by the great Anna and
her associates, and was immensely enjoyed.
The Charles Wenmans' daughter Sunday
was one of the principal dancers.
The first mannequin parades of summer
finery rivalled the talkies in popularity last
week. At the first show, which opened on
a wet, cold afternoon, there was onl.V
a narrow aisle left for the displayers of
frills and furbelows. Many women stood
on chairs; others mounted on tables ami
formed a gallery, peering over the heads of
the chaired. Seated or standing, however,
all were quite happy under the spell of
satins and chiffons. It was noted that
evening gowns, especially those of taffeta,
are developing skirts of enormous width;
and the ensemble day frock must now be
worn with its own particular bit of mil-
linery. Skirts are cunningly cut on straight
lines, and it is only when the wearer daintily
spreads her plumage that one notes a return to
a very graceful evening mode. One fascinating
model of this nature, designed for a debu
tante, is sky-blue silk, long of bodice, the
voluminous skirt showing at intervals
tracery of pale pink tulle which blends into
a wide hem. A big bustle bow at the back
is an effective finishing touch. The chiffon
and lace gowns form a contrast, with trail-
ing bits hitched at random below the waist-
line. The hem-line is as staggery as ever.
A novel combination confection of white
chiffon worn with a silver tissue bridge-
coat and beret, suggesting a figure from the
“Arabian Nights,” furnished a surprise. On
shedding the coat, the tall slim mannequin
undid a bit of drapery tied at the waist, and
behold! it did alternate duty as a cape.
For the day-time ensemble the long coat
combined with a figured satin or foulard
frock promises to have a vogue. The coat
is lined with the same material as the trim
dress, with its two or three pleated or flat
flounces, and the one-shade hat has a little
bit of the fancy fabric as trimming. Pdack
coats and hats with patterned silks seem
to meet with most acceptance. Nothing
prettier in this class of wear was seen at
the first display than a black satin frock
with a stamped design in cream and prim-
rose flowers, allied to a coat and straw hai
designed on lines already indicated. A
pastel-green summer-weight cloth with a
ninon gown scattered with pale-hued blos-
soms was a delightfully coed suggestion for
one of Melbourne’s hot, windy days.


f
/
&
Wi
4^
£
4
r
_EU!
&
K!M*<!*«jas.
\ x
ai&
cxu^
m.
T
l '^Zvwk-'t
s~
i\
v fj&r?x
*IL
; -•«!_:
%
cS
5!
I
V!
S.
<3=3
c/e
No. 628 "4711”
Powders. perfumed
with "471 1 ’ Eau
de Cologne , 2/6 &
3/6 per box.
No. 642 Compact
Powder. perfumed
with "4711” Tosco,
4/6 each.
%
V°47//.
congeal
unequalled
Shampoo hr me hui
No. 951 "4711”
Eau de Cologne
Liquid Shampoo,
3/- per bottle. Rose
and Eau de Cologne
perfume.
■
Liii
"SC
m
ifiss
No. 475 "4711”
Bath Salts, per-
fumed with "4711”
Eau de Cologne.
3/6. 4/6 St 5/6
per bottle.
No. 859 "4711”
Eau de Cologne
Soap, 1/3 per cake.
Eau de Cologne and
Lavender Perfume.
The Summer Qirl’s
Preference!
The universal popularity
of the Blue and Gold
labelled Eau de
Cologne is due to the fact
that, for nearly 150 years,
it has been made from the
finest ingredients, according
to the original recipe. It never
varies in quality, and its pur-
ity, fragrance and strength
have never been
surpassed.
When buying Eau de
Cologne insist upon the
Blue and Gold labelled
n mr
Obtainable from all leading
chemists and departmental
stores.
«S 5
TSSWUT
SOVBL
m
Wx
ZF'
I [ •* *1 f*l ton**** Hr f tl*'* r * (If
A .dIOCR|NGASS£N** 7u
EAU DE COLOGNE
No. 43
Watch Shape
2/3
No. ■>
Original Shape
6/6
No. 50
The new size
which holds as
much as 20 of
the 2/3 size,
30/-; and sizes
from 1/6 to
75/- per bottle.
yrozocfonQ
pa
Cologne
No. 110 "4711”
" Frozoclonc”
Solid Earl de
Cologne, 3/6 &
4/6.'
rea
Serd
No. 463 "4711”
Cold Cream
1/9, 3/- & 3/9
No. 453 "4711”
Vanishing
Cream,
1/3, 2/3 & 3/-
mi
O
Eo u de
Cologne


Motor Fuels
Tested
Remarkable Demonstration
given at Oil Company’s
Laboratory
A Convincing Test
Anybody who goes to the
Yarraville Installation of
the Vacuum Oil Company
Pty. Ltd., and sees there the
Midgley Bouncing Pin apparatus
testing fuels, must be convinced
that there is only one spirit on
the market that is outstandingly
better than others; and that is
appotenic Plume.
This apparatus—the only equip-
ment of the kind in the South-
ern Hemisphere—proves in deeds,
to the eye and ear, what the
appotenic Plume advertising
claims in words. It shows clearly
those invisible and sometimes in-
audible laborings that take place
beneath the bonnet of a car when
it is travelling up hill, or under
heavy load, on the wrong kind
of fuel, on fuel unstable to heat
and high compressions. It shows
the advantages of the right kind.
Details of the Apparatus
The Midgley Bouncing Bin Set con-
sists of a small internal-combustion
engine; a direct-coupled electric gene-
rator ; a thermostatic cooling system;
an instrument and control board; and
—the bouncing pin apparatus itself.
The engine, which is water-jacketed,
is firmly fixed on a solid base. A
special head has been fitted, which is
designed not only to admit the bounc-
ing pin—of which more details later —
but to give the high compression of 6.7
to 1. Average compressions obtaining
in present-day cars are as follows: —
American . . .. 4.9 to 1
English .. . . 5.2 to 1
Continental .. . . 5.4 to 1
So it can be seen that any motor spirit
that stands up to the conditions exist-
ing in this trial engine will not break
down in any car in the world that is
not a freak ear.
The fuel is further “burdened” by a
magnetic resistance or load which is
placed on the engine through the gen-
erator, and which can be varied by the
operator by means of a control on the
instrument-board ; while the spark set-
ting is on much more than a normal
“advance.”
The Measurement of Knocks
Now for the measurement and the
comparison of knocks. This is the
purpose of the bouncing pin.
In a tapped orifice in the combustion
head, similar'• to a spark-plug hole, is
screwed a drilled steel rod about seven
inches in length. Through the centre
of the rod, fitting closely, but free to
move, goes the “pin” itself. The lower
end of the pin rests on a small dia-
phragm, which is held in position by
a hollow ring nut screwed against a
shoulder in the surrounding metal.
This diaphragm takes the pressure that
is generated in the combustion chamber
during the firing stroke. While it holds
the compression, it transmits any shock
or vibration (when knocking is taking
place) to the pin above it, which is
thus caused to “bounce.”
The upper end of the pin, while at
rest, touches the lower arm of a pair of
contact-breakers. These are normally
open, and are positioned in an electric ]
circuit which operates a red light and
a “knock-measuring” device on the
instrument board.
When a Knock Occurs
When a knock occurs in the engine,
the diaphragm is “sprung”; the pin
bounces; taps the l contact-arms to-
gether, closes the 1 circuit, the red light
flickers, and the knock-indicator works.
The “knock-measuring” device con-
sists of a calibrated glass tube filled
with an acid solution, through which
the same electric current that operates
the light passes. The passage of the
current releases a gas in the solution,
which rises in the form of bubbles to
the top of the tube. This renders com-
parisons between the knock-frequency
of two different fuels very simple. The
more gas that is collected over a given
period of running, the worse, from the
knocking point of view, is a fuel —the
less, the better.
More than Human
Those who have seen tests realised
fully for the first time the big differ-
ence between various brands of motor
spirits that ordinary running in a car
does not always reveal—but which is
bound to be recorded in ultimate per-
formance, i.e., in more, or less, gear
changing or in more, or less, miles per
gallon.
The Midgley Bouncing Pin Apparatus
is more than human. It hears what
ears cannot hear, feels what is imper-
ceptible to the human touch. It proves
very definitely the reason for that
seemingly paradoxical term the “silent
knock” ; and convincingly demonstrates
the value to the motorist of' using a
motor spirit that possesses the “appo-
tenic” quality which, by controlling
the rate at which Plume burns, elimin-
ates all kinds of knocking and ensures
maximum power output.
Engineers who have witnessed tests
acknowledge that this inherent appo-
tenic quality places Plume in a class
by itself—a genuine knock-proof motor
spirit of incomparable quality.
M ore Sensitive
than the human ear!
This Machine
tests motor spirits
for their
anti-knock value
The Midgley Boun-
cing j <•! linocK-
testing set.
» * *
This wonderful ap-
paratus. standard
equipment with mo-
tor fuel engineers
for the purpose oi
testing the knock-
resistance of motor
spirits, is the only
one of its kind in
the Southern
Hemisphere.
m
m
.
Wm
m
m
.
hbhi
mmm.
‘ZvAy.-Xwiv.
::W<
&:>f:
*
«l
i
S 3??
S?S32
/ /
:W:>;
It records even the “silent knock
The Midgley Bouncing Pin knock-testing set is recognised through-
out the wcr!d by fuel engineers as the standard equipment for
determining the anti-knock value of a fuel.
The set illustrated above forms part of the extensive fuel-testing
equipment in the laboratory of the Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
By this scientific apparatus the remarkable anti-knock quality of
Plume is regularly tested and confirmed.
If motor spirit tested in
this device has a tendency to
knock, the bouncing pin will
detect it even although it be
inaudible to the human ear.
Even the slightest disruption
or increase in the burning
rate of the fuel is indicated
by a tell-tale sign on the
instrument board. There is
no indication of even a silent
knock with appotenic Plume.
The unequalled results
achieved in this scientific test
with appotenic Plume is a
■
run
rrn
Perfect knock-proof
combustion follows
naturally when appo-
tenic Plume is used.
convincing demonstration of
the appotenic story. It is a
matter of scientific record
that Plume does not knock
either audibly or silently.
This is due to its remarkable
ability to withstand the
heat and high compression
of the combustion chamber.
Prove the appotenic quality
in your own car. Get the
benefit of the full power out-
put of appotenic Plume, made
available through perfect
knock-proof combustion.
appotenic [from La-
tin: ad (ap) meaning
added to: and potens,
meaning powerful] pos-
sessing increased
power; said of a gas
that, being stable to
heat and high compres-
sion will therefore
neither audibly nor
silently “knock” in a
high compression
engine .
PLUME
appotenic
Motor Spirit
appotenic Plume
is pure,
uniform,
crystal-clear.
Your eye can see
how pure it is ...
Let your car
prove its power.
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
9P20


llllSli.
w
IS
jm.
m
...
■&'
"™»«H
jy*
-jsrt'i
' -
EXCLUSIVE
DISTINCTIVE
TAILORING
PERFECT CUT
THE FINEST
MATERIALS
AND NEWEST
PATTERNS
MAYFAIR 1870
JmCtM&IL
LADIES TAILOR f
LONDON
at
19 Princes Street
Hanover Square W. I.
EXTENDS YOU A WELCOME
SPECIALISING IN SUP-
PLYING VISITORS TO
THE "OLD COUNTRY "
WITH TAILORED
CLOTHES SUITABLE
FOR BOTH AUSTRA-
LASIAN AND EUROPE-
AN WEAR-HOPES FOR
THE PLEASURE OF
YOUR VISIT-A SUIT TO
PLEASE THE MOST
FASTIDIOI IS AT 15 GNS
Amusements.
QYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: THE FIVE-
O’CLOCK GIRL.
ROYAL: THE SQUEAKER.
(Commencing- Saturday.)
PALACE: NICOLA.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
SHOW BOAT.
LOYAL:
JOURNEY’S END.
ING ’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE!
COMMENCING SATURDAY.
NO. 17.
With NAT MADISON.
H o yt’s de Luxe Theatre,
MELBOURNE.
THE DONOVAN AFFAIR.
With JACK HOLT, DOROTHY REVIER and
AGNES AYRES.
\i.so
ANNAPOLIS.
With JACK MACK BROWN.
And FOX MOVIETONE NEWS.
Missinsr Friends.
TONES, JAMES SYDNEY, eldest son of
J late J. C. Jones, Mt. Keira, please com-
municate J. W. RUSSELL, Solicitor, Wol-
longong. Information his benefit.
D E J. E. FITZPATRICK, Deceased.—
■» N Will any person knowing the where-
abouts of Tasman Adolphus Fitzpatrick, last
heard of at Zeelian, in Tasmania, in 1903,
please communicate with the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Hobart.
DYAN, ERNEST, husband of Ann Mar-
-1 v garet Ryan, formerly of .Sydney, but late
of Grey Street. East Melbourne, will hear
something to his advantage if lie communi-
cates with THE NATIONAL TRUSTEES
COMPANY, 113 Queen Street. Melbourne.
MRS. AGNES LOUISA SIMMONS.—
VA Will any person knowing the address of
the above, who at one time resided at
Croydon Road, Hurstville. kindly communi-
cate with Messrs. PIGOTT. STINSON,
MACGREGOR & PALMER, Solicitors, 2b
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
DERSONS claiming to be entitled to share
A in the Estate of MARIA NEWLANI)
RUDWICK, late of No. 10 St. Aimes Ores-
cent, Lewes, in the Comity of Sussex.
Spinster, who died on the 23rd day of March,
1929, aged 78, intestate, are required to send
notice of their claims forthwith to Messrs.
HILLMAN & SON, Solicitors, Lewes,
Sussex, England, as Solicitors for Bessie
Par left Rudwick, the Administratrix, a law-
ful niece of the whole blood of the deceased.
SAMUEL RUDWICK, a brother of tin-
said Intestate, is believed to have gone to
Canada or Australia in 1862, and has not
been since heard of.
INFORMATION is required as to whether
Samuel Rudwick is still alive, or, if dead,
the date a-nd place of his death and whether
he died a bachelor or married, and, if the
latter, whether he left lawful issue him sur-
viving.
YOUR NEXT PARTY. PICNIC,
OR SUPPER INTRODUCE
CAPTAIN CRAB
FOR
AND SEE
THE
SMILING
WELCOME
HE RECEIVES
FO*
rU*TKEW FAftT.CUUARS
ASK
VOVA CAOCIK
tom mciFt nooK
HAIR.
V
tr
need
HERES
ď
Grey Hair is always taken to be a! sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
SfcOUvrCs CMEXICAN)
VkUmt StaLn
''REMOVES THE GREY *
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIX & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct Vt!6), (id. being postage.
j§k
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Center of Queensland's
Distingurshed Social Lifel
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
At the Anzac Ball in Lennon’s for the
distressed Diggers’ fund, a bugle call
;ianounced the arrival of General Ohauvel
mid his lady, Colonel Worthington Wi'lmer
and Lieut. C. V. Farral. The Premier and
Mrs. Moore, Colonel and Mrs. Cameron
and the Mayor and Mrs. W. A. Jolly were
also there. Lady Goodwin wore black silk
n>bweb lace; the Ohauvel dame, apple bloom
mariette; Mrs. Moore was in black silk lace
over cameo pink; Mrs. Jolly in tea-rose mari-
ette with silver broideries; Mrs. Lorenzo,
cream Maltese lace and satin; Mrs. L. C.
Wilson, blue mariette; Mrs. Donald Cameron,
black silk tulle and gold filigree; Mrs. Percy
Kray, opal-blue; Mrs. Jack Cain, ivory and
black; Mrs. Buttner, an ivory beaded frock;
Gladys Reay, dawn pink; Norah H'alford,
black; Mollie Smyth (Lismore), apricot.
The Governor unveiled Longstaff’s “Alenin
Cate’’ in the Town H'all. The public is
showing a keen interest in the painting.
The vice-regals went twice to see “The
Patsy" at Her Majesty’s, the company being
subsequently bidden to lunch at Government
I louse.
Lady Goodwin and General Gliauvel’s
lady attended the garden party given by
the executive of the Women’s College at
Kangaroo Point. Freda Bage and Mrs.
Edgar Harris received. Pansies, marigolds
and delphiniums, tied with the college colors,
were presented to Lady Goodwin by Airs.
A. F. Bell for the committee. Chief Justice
and Mrs. Blair were among the gathering.
Enid Bell, of Cooehin Coochin, gave an
address on her venturiugs in India, in aid of
the gypsy stall at St. Margaret’s fete. Norah
Halford and Fred Homer sang, Archie Day
playing the accompaniments, and some of the
members of the Queensland School of Danc-
ing contributed items. The audience in-
luded Mrs. T. J. Bell, Dr. and Mrs. Avery,
Mr. and Mrs. John Flower, the Bells from
Woo, Mrs. Leonard Turner, Mrs. A. H
Whittingham, Airs. AVillie Persse, Irma
Dearden, Colonel Cameron and Rodney
Graham.
Mrs. I!. AI. King staged a tennis and
bridge tea for bride-elect Adele Donaldson
nt tvilmorna. Coorparoo. Amongst the
players were Alesdames A. E. Aloore, Arthur
Hart, A. A. Donaldson, Hubert King, R. AI.
Stodart. Everil Trade, Ruby Alissing and
°ggy o bite. There was a second party for
Adele Donaldson and Stephen King at the
Lomantique Cabaret; a third at Maroonda.
Ascot; and yet a fourth at Dagilma, Clay-
field.
Nell Dougias Graham staged four plays in
All Saints Hal] before an appreciative audi-
ence Mary Kessell was charming as Ladv
fcily in “Cats' Claws," Connie Springaij
proved an attractive Eva, and some rather fas-
' mating pyjamas appeared in the bedroom
scene. A ell Graham was at her best as Donna
Laura in A Sunny Morning.” Amongst
nie men Eric Roemermanu did capital work-
in the audience were the A. D. Grahams.’
Mr. and Airs. Angus Reece. Air. and Mrs.
handler, Lady Ada Aloreton, Airs. E AI
, a raker Airs. Doris Townsend. Mes-
dames Dent, Aloore, AI. Forrest, Bulcoek
Marjorie Hollinshed, Leo Guyatt, Herbert
coulter and Alurray Graham.
Colonel Cameron opened the exhibition of
• jdney Ure Smith’s etchings and water-
•olors in the Gainsborough Gallerv. The
throng included Alesdames, Frank Corrjo
p "• Chandler, AI. Forrest, Foxton an i
bruce, Margaret Woolnough. Colonel An-
jiand Messrs. C. H. Lancaster. Charlie
sXld’ F ‘ NIXOn ’ Geral<J Cyan and
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
. Perth,
the Adelaide Hunt Club held its annual
iomt-to-Poiiit Steeplechase at Onkapariuga.
club was favored with fine weather
( ’i. a good attendance, the road to the
'akbank course being lined with motors,
eteran Lancelot Stirling and his lady
■ w ' rf ! among those who took keen pleasure
the inenm meeting. In the evening his
x - with Lady Hore-Ruthven and their son,
•n as ? res £ nt at the vaudeville show at the
ilieatre Royal. Legh Winser was in attend-
a,nee - . fres , h . from his victory in the golf
diampionship.
Mrs. A. E. \. Richardson gave a party at
Lrrbrae on Alonday afternoon to welcome
Miss Alargaret Robertson, of Aberdeen, who
arrived in Adelaide to marry Air. A. H.
■wm, of the Waite Institute, and to farewell
;,! lss . Norwood, who goes to Java. Pianist
Irixn? Shepherd, a pupil of Irene Kemp,
Hayed during the afternoon, and the hostess
-ang French songs. She wore black ring
Hvet. Mrs. Frederick Ward was frocked
in almond-green georgette, silk embroidered.
Invitations have been issued for the wed-
ding of Gene, youngest daughter of Airs.
Karr Primrose Alaleolm, of Fisher-street
Lnley and Frank, son of Air. aud Airs!
Dnfokl Hyland, at St. Michael’s Church,
Mitcham, on September 25.
The Alyers Ball in aid of the Lord Alayor’s
Appeal Fund brought a large attendance to
the Palais Royal on Wednesday night. The
festivity lasted until 3 a.m. The Lord
Mayor and Lady Alayoress were present
during the the early part of the evening. Airs,
i.mngton Bonython wore black ring velvet
with apricot-toned roses appliqued round the
nem. Mrs. Norman Alyers was in apple
green georgette.
• I* 1 ®? 8 * a L the Royal Institution for
‘lie Blind was crowded on Wednesday after-
ii"on, when a gift tea was held to raise
money for the institution. Airs. Wesley
Lathlean arranged the musical programme,
in which two of the blind, F. Gibbons and
G. Casey, took part. Lady Hore-Ruthven
was entertained at afternoon-tea by the pre-
sident and vice-president, Mrs. Herbert
Shorney and Mrs. S. Vervo. Dr. H. Shorney
and Mr. Amos Rowley won admiring tributes
as the only men present.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
The Repertory Club staged a diverting
social evening recently. Synge’s “Shadow
of the Glen” was presented, and a dramatic
reading given of lan Ilay’s "The Missing
Card.” Mrs. Annie Mark carried off the
prize for guessing the impersonated parts
played by members in club productions.
A becomingly dressed gathering assembled
at the Y.A.L. Hall for the annual Loretto
Ball. The Misses A. Andrews and P. Davies
acted as joint secretaries of the large com-
mittee of ladies. Mrs. Walter Dwyer was
gowned in white georgette surcharged with
crystal; Mrs. Durack was swathed in lilac
mariette; Miss I). Bryan twirled scarlet
chiffons, and Beth Davies was clad in green
tulle. Xoreen Riley had hyacinth nets over
satin, and Mrs. Riley wore color embossed
black.
Perth’s hundredth birthday caused heaps
of excitement. Traffic was stopped while his
Ex. lifted the veil from the brass plate on
the Town Hall, rich with the names of City
Councillors : Mayor Franklin was pelted with
congratulations over his step in civic rank,
and there was a lot of speechifying, mostly
inaudible. Ernest Cuthbertson arranged the
pageant, and brilliant lights blazed all over
the Town Hall.
Mt. Lawlcy Golf Club held a highly suc-
cessful bridge party in the Alma-road
Masonic Hall. Mrs. Goyne Miller, wearing
parchment georgette and lace, presided over
the entertainment committee, and Tom Scad-
dan was secretary. Mrs. C. Leedman and
Messrs. Rutter and Nairn collected the
prizes ; supper and a dance followed.
Lady Campion looked in at the Girl
Guides’ Ball in the Y.A.L. ballroom, where
she was received by the District Commis-
sioner, Mrs. R. T. Robinson. Miss Bannon,
captain of the first Perth company, was
the organiser of a thoroughly successful
shivoo. Stanley Bowen made" a realistic
Robinson Crusoe in brown fur, with a live
parrot on his shoulder and a pet dog at his
heels; small brother Gordon offsided as
Friday.
Imminent events of interest include the
Movie Ball and Hilary Smith’s marriage to
Dr. Johnson. Miss Hilary is a well-known
woman motorist and one of Perkolilli’s
keenest racing competitors.
That dainty Westralian Euid Bennett, now
living in Los Angeles after retiring from the
movie world, has been prevailed upon to star
in a talkie. It is a two-reel film with an
“educational” flavor. When the last Ameri-
can mail left, the actress, with her husband,
Fred Niblo, was leaving for a holiday motor-
ing tour through the States and Canada.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
This picture shows Miss Hazel Guest,
th e violinist,
a new addition
to II o b art’s
musical circles,
who has al-
ready given a
taste of her
quality at the
T own Hall,
and at some of
the organ re-
citals at St.
David’s Cathe-
dral. In Mel-
bou r n e she
has pla y e d
under Percy
Grainger and
M o i seivitsch,
and was a
pupil of J. B.
N’orth, of the
Uni. Conserva-
torium. Jos.
Eccles made
the picture.
Premier McPhee held forth at a meeting of
the South U'obart branch of the A.W.N.L.
in Mrs. Hungerford’s drawing-room at
Hathaway House. Mrs. Mary Parker, Tas.
president of the League, spoke on the ob-
jects and aims of the organisation. It was
impressed on the gathering that Tasmanian
women must wake up and find a representa-
tive for next year’s conference at Geneva;
otherwise there is a danger of the Speck
being merged into Victoria and having no
spokeswoman of her <fwn.
A well-known and highly regarded figure
in Tasmanian society, particularly in the
Midlands, has passed out in Mrs. J. Dowbig-
gin Foster, of Rosedale, Campbelltown. The
eldest daughter of the late Chas. Leake, Mrs.
Foster spent her last years, as well as her
earliest ones, in her beautiful old home,
returning to the district after her husband’s
death a few years ago. She was a generous
giver to good works and deserving move-
ments.
The Robert H'eadlams, who suffered so
severely in the April floods, have sold their
fine old property, Glen Esk, Conara. and
turned their backs on country life. They
have bought a house in D’Arcy-street. South
Hobart.
A dance was given by the prefects of the
Hutchins School, the first under the regime of
the new Head and Mrs. Oberlin Harris.
Youth was the predominating note. The
school gymnasium was decorated with flags
and streamers.
Launceston’s roomy Albert Hall was well
filled for the. Broadland House school’s
annual ball. The very juvenile guests held
possession from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m., when thev
gave place to the grown-ups. Mrs. D M
Annear put in splendid work as hon. sec. to
a big committee, and Mrs. Castley was
responsible for the supper-table decorations
of Iceland poppies and red gumtips. D
Armitage’s orchestra dispensed the music
and there was some very pretty fancy danc-
ing by the pupils of the school under Miss
R. Humphreys.


After your shampoo
}
a touch of Rowland’s
Macassar Oil will re-
place the natural oil
which the shampoo re-
moved. The oil is very
necessary, for it pre-
vents thin, falling hair
and gives a perfect
healthy gloss. Comb
the oil well into the
hair.
From nil Chem-
ists, Stores and
Hairdressers.
Red for dark
hair; golden for
fair or grey hair.
fd
Wand's
Macassar Oil
112 Guilford Street, London, W. 0.1.,
ENGLAND.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.:
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
ďf
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville;* and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ROOM 3QO
PLEASE
The comfort and success of your
visit to Adelaide, whether for a
week or a year, is assured when
you stay here. Yale locks on all
doors, fireproof, hot and cold
water in every room. Bed and
Breakfast, from 6/6.
»6ROSVENOR
Finest Unlicensed
Opp. Railway Sin. North Terrace. ADELAIDE^
PARADISE PLUMES
BY GILBERT MUNRO TURNBULL
JllujjlraJioixj by (Di.[K.Tr©WAi.ffCHtZAi[D O
Synopsis : Returning to New Guinea
after a holiday in Sydney, Stephen
Make, District Magistrate, is intro-
duced to Lesley Rowan hv Professor
Hielcs, an anthropologist, who is visit-
ing New Guinea and had become
acquainted with the girl on board ship.
Make, warmly attracted to her, is
about to confess his love, when she
tells him that she is going to marry
Harry Merton, a planter of Akupaka
Bay, the district in which Blake's out-
station lies. Blake knows “Flash
Harry” Merton well, but he keeps his
knowledge from the girl. Meanwhile,
Jimmy Glover, holding court as Assist-
ant-Resident Magistrate, imposes an-
other fine on Merton for cruelty to his
native laborers, and learns that the
native girl, Loana , who had been Mer-
ton’s mistress and had. borne him a
son, has been returned to her village,
while the son has been sent to a mis-
sion school. Glover, fearing for the
white girl who is coming to marry
Merton, orders his native sci'gcant to
see that Loana is kept away from
Laubogi, Merton’s plantation. _ For
the rest of the voyage Blake’s ideals
of manliness arc severely tested, but
he forces himself not to disillusion
Lesley over her fumed, and. tries to
cheer her by telling her she will like
Tod Lorimer and others. The voyage
ended, Lesley marries Merton and
enters into her “enchanted kingdom.”
CHAPTER VII ( Continued ).
THERE was a tension, an undercurrent
of constraint, of uneasiness among the
little group left standing at the doors
of the church. Jenkins sensed it; the brides-
maid sensed it, and they drew away, talking
in low undertones.
Presently the minister appeared, closing
the doors behind him. He looked inquir-
ingly at Mervyn Woods; then he, too,
seemed to read something, gone wrong.
“Shall we—er —go, Woods?” he asked,
looking from one stony face to the other.
“Tea will be waiting, I think.”
Blake raised his head. “Please excuse
me, Padre,” he said. “I’ll walk back now,
if you don’t mind.”
“One moment, Blake,” put in Professor
Hicks. “A word with you before you go,
if you please. And you also, Padre,” he
added, turning to Mervyn Woods.
Blake swung round, suddenly on guard,
and again he sensed disapproval. The others
walked away.
“I shall not detain you, Blake”—the Pro-
fessor’s voice had an unexpected edge to
it. “Will you pardon me if what I say
maj' sound impertinent?” He looked direct
at the missionary. “Do you fellows think
you’ve done the right thing by our little
Lesley?”
Blake flinched, and his face went bleak.
They had nothing to reproach themselves
with, he told himself savagely, and he, for
one, was not going to be drawn into a
futile discussion of the rights and wrongs
of the business. Lesley had attained her
heart’s desire; she had entered her
enchanted palace, and not all the mischief-
makers in the country could tear it down
if Merton but played the game. He closed
his lips tightly together.
"I think we have,” answered Mervyn
Woods. “I’m sure we have,” he added em-
phatically.
The Professor shot a keen, questioning
glance at Blake.
A sudden understanding came to the Pro-
fessor. The look of disapproval, of per-
plexity left his face, and he turned away,
frowning thoughtfully.
“I beg your pardon, my lad, if I have
blundered,” he said gruffly. “I didn’t—er
—savee.”
With immense relief Blake strode on
towards the township.
“I’ll join you if I may, R.M.,” breezed
Jenkins. “I’ve got the blue, blinding willies.
If I’m in the way, R.M., just tell me to
buzz off.”
Blake’s moroseness lifted, and the tension
in his muscles relaxed. Jenkins, the un-
abashed, would not be in the way, he
decided. A good kid, Jenkins. Just the
kind of cub to make a good officer, if he
didn’t allow himself to drift.
“What is your full name, Jenkins?” he
asked after a while.
“Thomas Shepstone Mainwaring Jenkins,”
answered Jenkins promptly.
“Great Scott!”
There was another silence.
“You were good enough to suggest on the
boat, Mr. Blake, that I might be posted to
Akupaka. May I say, sir, that I’d be
honored and—and proud to serve under
you?”
‘Thanks, Tommy.” Blake’s voice was
gruff. “It can be arranged, I think'.”
CHAPTER VIII.
Seeing Lesley Through.
Lcslej'’ threw back the lid of a cabin
trunk and took out a sequinned green georg-
ette. It was too extravagant really, to
waste on a mere Port Moresby “hop,”
though Hal had assured her that the queer
little settlement was by no means the
simple, unsophisticated backwater it
appeared to be. What a flair Hal had for
women’s dress!
She would have been wanting in per-
ception had she not realised her own attrac-
tiveness; but to Hal—her husband, her
lover—she knew she was not just a good-
looking wife; she was his Goddess, his
Angel of Light!
She sank down upon the bed, her mind
full of happy thoughts. What a week it
had been! What an intoxicating week of
ecstasy and love and happiness in that tiny
little rest-house in the hills! Each mom-
Sam Turyer.
ing she had been awakened in the early
flush of dawn by the first faint rustling and
twittering of strange birds in the trees, and,
as if coming from a great distance, vague,
muted, the thunder of the far-famed falls
of Rona. Each morning she had stood on
the verandah stunned to silence by the
magic of the tropic dawn—the jungle-
covered hills all rose and gold, the morning
air so cool, so crisp, so laden with sensuous
perfume.
And the days, how full they had been!
What a sense of high adventure had pos-
sessed her, when, guided by one of the
houseboys, she had scrambled to the foot
of the falls and gathered rare ferns and
exquisite ground orchids. She had been
awed by the cannonade of the falling waters
—awed and a little afraid. What unknown
horrors lurked in that gloomy canyon? And
Tod Lorimer.
the small boy with the euphonious name
—Gaduweli —had sensed her fear and had
comforted her with grave courtesy.
“You no fright, Sinabada. You-me two
fella friend. All the time I look out good
’long you.”
Gaduweli, her knight-errant! The funny
little chap who was so scared of her hus-
band! As if anybody could possibly be
afraid of Hal!
They had emerged at last drenched with
spray, flushed, triumphant and laden with
spoil for her fernery.
What a wonderful world it was~—for
people who loved! What tender, exquisite
memories would be hers to cherish through
the long roseate years to come. Her honey-
moon in the mountains —just she and her
gallant, masterful Hal and their “boys”—
the remembrance of it must never be
allowed to fade.
And to-morrow the Siai and Laubogi!
Laubogi! Akupaka! The very names lured,
enticed, seemed to breathe the spirit of this
strange and enchanted land.
She looked up, startled, as a shadow fell
athwart the bed.
“Oh, Hal!” she exclaimed breathlessly.
“How you frightened me!”
Merton laughed. He bent down and kissed
her hair, her eyes, the white nape of her
neck where the shingled curls showed a
little shadow.
“Had some ‘spots,’ Hal?” she smiled.
“Only one, Kitten. I met that fellow
Jenkins in the bar, and we celebrated his
appointment to Akupaka.”
“I’m so glad he is going to Akupaka. He’s
an awfully nice boy, Hal.”
“Is he, Girlie?” Merton’s tone was in-
different. “I hadn’t noticed.”
The “girlie” jarred, somehow'. It sounded
a little cheap. She would tell Hal, some-
time, that she didn’t like it, quite; and Hal
would understand as he always understood.
A clock struck the hour.
“Gracious, Hal!” she cried. “I must
hurry. Run away, dear, while I dress.”
It was quite dark when, humming a little
tune, Lesley, followed by her husband,
tripped downstairs to the dining-room. She
paused a moment at the door listening to
the clink of glasses, the rattle of crockery,
loud talk and laughter. Then Merton
opened the door. There was a perceptible
lull in the clamor as they made their way
to a small table which had been reserved
for them. Lesley was conscious of an
atmosphere of curiosity, of speculation. She
was aware of whispers, of nudges and of
an appallingly embarrassing battery of
eyes.
“Why do they all stare so?” she whispered
when they were seated.
“Need you ask, Kitten?” he answered
with a slow, proprietorial smile. “You are
not hard to look at, you know.”
Lesley colored faintly, but her eyes shone
with a new glory, and far back in her con-
scic ,:.ness she had a delightful sense of
triumph.
Blake was seated with his back to the
door, and, absorbed in study of the menu,
did not observe the Mertons’ entrance. He
,vas aware, however, of the silence that
fell v on the hotel guests, the tension in
the air, and he looked quizzically at Jen-
kins who sat opposite. A fat man on his
right slewed round in his chair, a leer in
his piggy eyes.
“Blimey!” he said in a husky whisper to
a pimply-faced youth who sat next to
Jenkins. “ ’O’s the tab, Freddy?”
Freddy dragged his avid eyes reluctantly
from Lesley’s face, and grinned knowingly.
“Wot, ’er?” He bestowed upon, the fat
man a sophisticated wink. “She’s Flash
’Arry’s latest, ’Erb. Tart ’e picked up larst
time ’e was south. A peacherino, ’Erb—eh,
wot!”
Blake’s mouth hardened. He looked
coldly at the pimply youth.
“That’ll do, friend,” Jenkins remarked in
a pleasant conversational voice. “Hate to
make a scene, y’know, but”—he seemed
to be estimating his distance—“any more
of that and I’ll knock you. Savee?”
Lesley Merton, at the other end of the
room, was gazing round her with fascinated
interest. It was all so. new and strange.
The waiters, so tall and muscular, so differ-
ent from the tiny little fellows most people
seemed to prefer for house-boys; the queer
fruit on the tables, fruit that exuded a
faint, sickly-sweet perfume, fruit she had
never seen or even heard of before; the
flowers in the vases, sheaves of flaming
poinciana, bougainvillea, purple and blood-
red. alamanda all golden yellow.
Hal seemed to be wholly occupied with
his knife and.fork. How well he looked
in evening kit —so obviously a man of the
world, of distinction in this rather motley
company of hotel guests.
Somebody was trying to attract her atten-
tion at the other end of the room. She
raised herself in her chair and looked over
the intervening heads. It was Tommy Jen-
kins. smiling cheerfully, and she caught a
fleeting glimpse of Blake’s back. There
would be no lack of partners to-night!
She would have Hal—strange that she had
never yet danced with Hal! —and Stephen
and Tommy Jenkins, and of course she
would meet lots of the nicer men. Hal
would see to that.
“Finished. Les?” Merton pushed back
his chair. “We’ll take coffee in the lounge,
I think.”
Merton waited for his wife to rise, and.
lighting a cigarette, followed her to the door.
Again Lesley was uncomfortably aware of
an odd quietude, and of many a curiou-
gaze focussed upon her.
Her husband, following closely behind,
looked neither to the right nor to the left
Blake and Jenkins sat in deep wickei
chairs in the lounge, talking in low voices.
“You savee the idea, Tommy? Blake
was saying. “Quite sure you understand?"
Jenkins nodded gloomily.
“Those sickening beasts at the table, and
—er —other little incidents have told me all
I wish to know. It’s a rotten turn-out.
R.M.”
Blake ignored his outburst.
“Keep her supplied with partners—those
fellows you’ve met are all good chaps, and
if, by some unfortunate combination 0!


Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
Food
fe«A Thadk Mark
When in pain.
Benger’s Food is soothing
and satisfying. It is most
easily absorbed and very
highly nutritious.
All who find milk heavy
or distasteful will find
Benger’s appetising and
acceptable.
Write for booklet to; —BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
‘Allenbur^s’
Black Currant PASTILLES
Business Men!
A clear, command-
ing voice means
much to you.
Ensure this by taking
the " Allenburys ”
Pastilles they are
effective and pleas-
ant in use.
Your Chemist stocks
them. 1/- and
1/9 per box.
circumstances, she gets marooned among
the women, plant your frame in, Jenkins,
and keep talking.”
Jenkins nodded again. “ ‘To silence en-
vious tongues,’ ” he quoted cynically. “It’s
a mad idea, R.M. Why not dissuade her
from attending the beastly dance? She
must meet women some time, she must”— —
“She’ll meet plenty,” Blake waved his
objections aside. “But I’ll hand-pick ’em.
Another thing, Tommy; don’t get drinking
with Merton. Leave him to me. Here
they come. Go to it!”
They both rose as Lesley appeared at the
tloor. The small-girl look of wonder in her
eyes deepened into a sort of tremulous
shyness when she greeted Blake, but soon
she was laughing and chatting with her
usual vivacity.
Merton disappeared. Presently he re-
turned followed by a “boy” carrying coffee
and liqueurs. Merton was on guard, wary.
Blake’s nerves were on edge. He had an
uncomfortable feeling that Merton was
watching him, and he was vaguely ill at
ease. What if Lesley had heard—things!
What if the glittering palace she had erected
about herself was already tottering? He
stole a glance at her face. Disillusioned?
Nonsense! Disenchanted? Bosh! Lesley’s
love for her hus-
band shone forth
from her radiant
eyes; her every
gesture was an un-
conscious caress,
every word she
spoke to him was
vibrant with ten-
derness.
“Well, people!”
Jenkins’s voice
sounded. “I hear
the sound of music
sweet, and the
great god Jazz is
calling. What
about it?”
Lesley sprang
up with a little
laugh. Merton rose
more slowly. H e
looked uncertainly
at Jenkins, and
then at Blake.
“Awful bore,
don’t you think?”
he drawled. “I
don’t feel at all
keen.”
To Blake his air
of polite indiffer-
ence seemed a
trifle overdone. He
had a fleeting im-
pression that the
man was a little
uneasy, a little un-
certain.
“Hal!” There
was consternation
and an undertone
of reproach in
Lesley’s voice.
“Our first dance,
dear! And per-
haps the last for
months and
months!”
“Nonsense, Mer-
ton!” Blake in-
terposed warmly.
“You must come.
You’ll enjoy it im-
menaely, old
chap.”
Lesley threw him
a grateful little smile. Merton fingered his
moustache. Then he tapped the gong.
“We’ll have a ‘spot’,” he declared. “Run
along to the verandah, Les, with Mr.
Jenkins. Sha’n’t be a sec.”
Lesley took Jenkins’s arm. Jenkins looked
questioningly at Blake, who nodded shortly
and resumed his seat.
“I think I shall need this, Blake,” Merton
remarked when the boy had returned with
the drinks. “You and your damned dances!”
Blake was again aware that Merton was
watching him closely.
“Cheerio, Blake!” Blake nodded and
drank slowly. Merton set down his empty
glass with a bang. He swung round in
his chair, and laughed unpleasantly.
“I find this situation amusing, really,”
he drawled. “You and I, Blake, old chap,
slapping each other on the back, so to
speak, sinking convivial spots together, and
• —loathing each other like Hell! ■ Doesn’t it
amuse you, Blake?”
Blake shrugged. “Not a bit,” he answered
coldly. “Is it profitable or useful for us to
discuss the subject? I think not, Merton.
We’ll join the others, I think.”
He stood up, but Merton thrust out a
restraining hand.
“Hold on, Blake!” Behind the geniality
of his voice lurked cold dislike. “Don’t think
I’m ungrateful, or anything like that. Your
attitude has been—er—unexpectedly decent;
but what, exactly, is behind it all?” His
jocular tone hardened. “Has it ever occurred
to you, Blake, that your well-meant efforts
to —er—avoid embarrassments might be un-
welcome? That my wife and I might prefer
to be left alone?”
Blake shrugged again. “Frankly, no,” he
answered. He bit his lip as if striving to
put a restraint upon his words. His voice
changed. “Look here, Merton!” he went
on. “Must Ibe explicit? Must I rub it in?
Must I tell you that you are in an utterly
impossible position? Won’t you have this
friendship I and my friends offer you?”
Merton drew back, and a slow, shamed
flush mantled his face.
“‘Going aboard, Mr. Glover?’ Lorimer inquired.”
“I find it impossible to believe, Blake, that
your concern is wholly due” He left
the sentence unfinished. “What does it
entail—this friendship?” he wound up.
“Simply that you run straight, and play
the game, Merton,” Blake declared warmly.
Merton’s face was still suffused, but he
shot a vigilant glance at Blake. He pondered
a while.
“I see,” he said softly at last. “It’s a bet,
Blake!”
A thin smile still hovered about his
mouth as he led Blake to the verandah.
They heard Lesley’s voice.
“A really and truly orchestra!” she was
saying. “How perfectly lovely!”
From the dance-room came a stream of
noise; laughter, talk and the riotous clamor
of a jazz orchestra. The frolic was in full
swing when they arrived. Lesley slid into
her husband’s arms, and she thrilled to the
knowledge that she had found her perfect
partner, that she and Hal had been born
to dance together. She was but dreamily
conscious of the decorations —of graceful
fronds festooned with purple chains of
bougainvillea, streamers of flaming oddly-
shaped blooms she could not name, and of
clinging vines with strange mottled leaves
torn from the tropic jungle. She was
vaguely aware of white-clad figures crowded
about the doors; of Stephen Blake swing-
ing by with a slender, white-haired woman
whose eyes, seemed kind.
She closed her eyes; the pressure of Hal’s
hand upon her back became firmer; the
pace of the music increased. Then the music
stopped; the dance ended, and, breathless,
she was being piloted to her seat.
“We must have many more, dear!” she
exclaimed. “Many, many more.”
Merton answered her with a slow smile.
She looked round her with wide-open
eyes. How stolid the men seemed. And
the women, surprisingly well gowned, she
conceded, but-how cold their eyes, how yn-
friendly, how—how scornful! Hastily she
put her hands to her hair and smoothed
her frock. She saw an over-rouged woman
in blue chiffon turn a too-blonde head tO-
wards her; read the movement of her lips;
saw her partner put a white, flabby hand to
his mouth, and saw the interest in the
woman’s eye§ replaced by something else.
What was it? Lesley felt the color rising
painfully in her cheeks, and she turned her
head. How foolish she was! These people
were a little distrustful of strangers. Their
environment, their isolation made them so.
She was hypersensitive, imaginative. There
was no atmosphere of criticism, of unfriend-
liness. She would find everybody charming
when Hal introduced her to his friends.
The music struck up again. She recog-
nised her favorite one-step, and fumed
quickly to her husband.
“May I have this dance, Mrs. Merton?”
It w’as Jenkins.
Smilingly she arose, easting a backward
glance at her husband. Strange how Hal
disliked all this fun when he was easily
the best dancer on the floor.
Blake was sitting in a secluded comer
with his partner. Clever, well-bred Mrs.
Browne-Burfitt was the wife of a very high
official. Even if she had known that the
irreverent and the enviofls referred to her
as the “Duchess,” her sense of humor
would have permitted her to laugh. A
personage of tonnage in Austral-Papuan
social circles; her word was law; her rule
absolute. .
Already planning her husband’s next fur-
lough, she was deeply interested in Blake’s
account ■of his holiday. They talked of
music, books, pictures, theatres —all the
things the women of Papua miss most, and
for which always they pine.
The music stopped again, and Blake saw
Jenkins take Lesley back to her husband
and seat himself by her side. Lesley gazed
about her, flushed and lovely, with eager
interest
Blake eyed Mrs. Browne-Burfitt covertly.
Suddenly he leaned forward.
“By the way, Mrs. Browne-Burfitt,” he
asked politely, “may I introduce my friend
Merton and his wife?”
He saw the lady’s mouth narrow to a thin
line, saw her eyes grow frigid, and his
heart sank.
“Are you quite
sure, Mr. Blake,
that I should like
to know your
friend Merton—
and his wife?” she
countered sweetly..
She searched
Blake’s reddening
face with her
shrewd, kindly
eyes. She knew
then that she had
hurt him, and
something that had
been puzzling her
since the arrival of
the Moratau stood
revealed to her.
“She seems quite
a nice little thing,
Mr. Blake,” Mrs.
Brown-Burfitt con-
ceded.
“She is a very
charming girl,” he
said.
The music start-
ed again. Blake’s
eyes were on Les-
ley sitting de-
murely by her
husband’s side.
Mrs. Browne-
Burfitt tapped him
lightly on the
shoulder with her
fan.
“Shall we dance
this, Stephen?” It
was one of her pre-
rogatives. Reluct-
antly Blake
offered his arm,
and they were glid-
ing across the
floor. He felt his
partner exerting a
constraining pres-
sure upon him as
they neared the
Mertons. Wonder-
ingly he slowed
down, and pulled
up. Mrs. Browne-
Burfitt squeezed
his arm. She was smiling pleasantly, and
the light of comprehension dawned on
Stephen Blake. He beamed.
“You are a perfect dear!” he whispered.
When, in the small hours, Lesley Merton,
tired but happy, returned to the hotel, her
mind was in a whirl. She put her hands
upon her husband’s shoulders and looked up,
her eyes swimming, full of tender meaning.
“My dear,” she breathed, “there is some-
thing sweet and clean and wholesome about
this funny little town. The people I have
met have been so kind, Hal, so gracious.
I feel as if I had known them all for years
and years.”
Harry Merton made no audible answer.
He caught a reflection of his face and he
winked at it solemnly. He was too dazed
to speak.
(Continued on next page.)


‘WINCHESTER
TRADE MARK
H
IJayS
tfss
\
m
m.
•c
BBSS ■
*rT.
i&r
SsT
Now!
Freedom from Constant
Rifle Cleaning
-THE tiresome job ot cleaning your gun after each
day’s shooting is now a thing of the past. Win-
chester Staynless Rimfire Ammunition will keep
your barrel clean . . . and free from the danger of
rusting and pitting. Primed with the new non-cor-
rosive Winchester priming mixture . . - And you
are assured all the world-famed Winchester' de»
pendability and accuracy.
If you prefer .22 Lesmok powder cartridges, ask
for Winchester Lestayn Cartridges (Lesmok powder
with non-corrosive priming) which give a high de-
gree of protection from rusting and pitting.
There is a full line of Winchester .22 Rimfire
Staynless and Lestayn Cartridges. At your dealets.
Be sure to ask for Winchester.
'WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS CO M
NEW HAVEN. CONN.. U. S. A.
Always use Winchester Ammunition with
Winchester Arms—they are made (or each other
<
4m
fs T Ai
S IVI O
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
BRITISIH
Perfection
RirSHl RUBBER.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
If any illustration in "The Bulletin takes your fancy, write
to the Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
An Ideal Winter Home—The Most Sheltered Spot on the Harbor, with Private Beach and
Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service. Spacious Grounds
and Garage Accommodation.
Winter Tariff from guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines).
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
THE WORLD’S LARGEST COMMERCIAL FORESTRY CO.
SUBSCRIBED SHARE CAPITAL £240,718
SUBSCRIBED BOND CAPITAL £3,400,000
FUNDS LODGED WITH TRUSTEES £380,000
BANKERS—THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND AND THEIR AGENTS.
SOLE BROKERS—SMITH, WYLIE AND CO., LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN BRANCHES AT MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE,
PERTH. HOBART AND NEWCASTLE.
NEW ZEALAND BRANCHES—AUCKLAND. WELLINGTON, CHRISTCHURCH AND DUNEDIN-
AND AT 36-38 NEW BROAD STREET, LONDON, E.C.2 ; JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA,
BOMBAY, INDIA; SINGAPORE; KUALA LUMPUR, FEDERATED MALAY STATES.
CHAPTER IX.
At Akupaka.
Tod Lorimer, owner of Gabubu Planta-
tion, lay in a squatter’s ' chair on the
verandah of his bungalow, his eyes fixed
moodily on the palm-tops as they swung
languidly in the breeze.
Tod had drifted to Akupaka Bay in the
early days. He had been a ship s steward,
had been a storehand at Buna in the palmy
days of the Yodda, and for forty years in
divers ways, always scrupulously honest, had
prised a" living' from an unsympathetic
world.
Tod Lorimer was the very last type of
man likely to succeed as a landed pro-
prietor in New Guinea, yet at sixty he
was the wealthiest planter in Akupaka
Bay. He owned the only modern bungalow;
his four hundred acres were in full bearing,
cropping a mathematical half-ton to the
acre, and the copra market was as healthy
as his palms.
He had learned early the lesson the
beachcomber never learns, or learns too
late: that the white man who can success-
fully exploit the Papuan coastal natives
—and keep on doing it—has yet to be born.
He mislaid his aspirates in a shocking
manner; he had never quite lost the habit
of “sir”-ing strangers; never quite ceased
to wonder at (lie respect which he inspired
in the minds of the brisk young storehands
at, Port Moresby, nor did the expensive
cigars and the drinks their employers
pressed upon him ever quite cease to em-
barrass him. He visited the capital but
rarely, and then always alone. The hospi-
tality of the townspeople, their obvious
goodwill, their graciousness was never, by
any crance, extended to his daughter. For
he had married “a lady of the country.”
And therein lay Tod Lorimer’s tragedy.
Moira was eighteen, pretty, dark-eyed,
and she had the slim figure, the erect car-
riage and the lithe grace of her mother’s
people. Moreover, she was most attractive.
Merton of Laubogi had sought her, and
Lorimer had threatened him with a shot-
gun. Sam Turver, the dissolute trader at.
Akupaka village, had asked for her hand in
marriage, and Lorimer had kicked him down
the front steps. Sun Lee, the Chinese
beche-de-mer man, and Tony Ventella had
made overtures, and had been warned off
Gabubu. Of clean-living, clean-bred men
of his own race, Lorimer knew not one
who would offer his pretty daughter mar-
riage. However you might try to cloak it,
Moira was half-caste.
To-day Tod Lorimer’s thoughts were
bitter. Moira was his child; bone of his
bone, flesh of his flesh. He had never
t bought much of the future, never realised
that his baby had become a woman, nor
of what the coming years might hold for
her. Sam Turver! Tony Ventella! Sun
Lee! God, what a poor, blind, pitiful fool
he had been!
Once he had approached Stephen Blake,
the resident magistrate of the division;
tried to bribe him, he reflected bitterly. He
had told Blake of his early struggles at
Gabubu. How he had built his first grass
humpy, and planted his seed nuts, and
how he had battled, sweated, starved to
keep the little place going. How he had
taken Moira’s mother to wife—married her
white man’s fashion, parson and ring and
all—and how she had died in bringing her
child into the world.
“I’m a rich old feller now, Mr. Blake,”
he had wound up. “And the likes of Ven-
tella and Turver an’ that blackguard Mer-
ton reckon as ’ow they’re doin’ me a
good turn—honorin’ me in fact—by offerin’
to take Moira orf me ’ands.”
'Then he had thrown out hints—broad
hints. Moira would bring to her husband
as her dowry five thousand in cash and
a half interest in Gabubu.
Who was the clever fellow who said
“Money talks”? It had not so much as
whispered to Stephen Blake.
“Sail ho-o-o!” A deep-throated roar from
the working gang told Lorimer that a faint
smudge had been discerned on the horizon
denoting the approach of the rusty little
steamer which maintained a regular monthly
service between Port Moresby and the
coastal settlements.
Lorimer donned a white drill coat and
walked slowly through the wide, cool, living
room to the back verandah. The garden
was a riot of color. Stately palms mounted
guard over a diversity of flowering shrubs.
Flaming quisqualis flung its blossoming
tentacles across the porch; sun-radiant
alamanda splashed the sward with gold, and
flamboyant bougainvillea and scarlet and
yellow hibiscus stood out vividly against a
background of sombre green.
Tod Lorimer’s eyes rested fondly on the
figure of his daughter swinging lazily in a
hammock swung between two slender areca
palms.
“I’m goin’ over to the Residency for lunch,
Moira,” he said gently. Glover had not in-
vited Moira. “Mr. Blake’s aboard the SiAi.”
The girl showed her dazzling white teeth
in a gay laugh.
“Do not forget to look out for Mi-.
Merton and his sinabada, Dad,” she replied
in her clipped, precise mission-school English.
“You will tell me all about her, Dad? Yes?”
Lorimer started. He had forgotten Merton;
forgotten that he and the fool woman who
had married him were also aboard the Siai.
“If 3 r ou bring them here, Dad, to this
house,” Moira warned him. “I shall laugh
very much.”
Lorimer smiled. “Will yer, Moira? They
won’t come ’ere, lass. ’E’ll whip the sinabada
orf to Laubogi in the launch, and we won’t
see ’er no more—until she goes back in the
Siai.”
He wondered how soon Merton’s wife
would suspect that there was something
amiss at Laubogi; how she would react to
the knowledge that her husband was a
little too “raw” even for the free and easy
standards of Akupaka Bay. Tod Lorimer
had felt no call to his chivalry such as
had come to Jimmy Glover; no instinct to
protect Merton’s wife, to preserve any
illusions she might possess. She was .a
sinabada—one of the haughty white dames
who hold themselves arrogantly .aloof from
his girl, Moira. Then, said Tod Lorimer’s
warped reason, let Flash Harry’s wife take
care of herself! If sentimental young fools
like Jimmy Glover held other views, then
let them not call upon him to further their
crazy schemes.
The Siai was puffing importantly to her
anchorage when Lorimer’s launch tied up
to the rickety Government jetty. The
station whaleboat was in the water, Sergeant
Babaka at , the tillpr, twelve stalwart con-
stables at the oars.
Presently Glover appeared. He was frown-
ing heavily. He had the appearance of a man
perplexed—perplexed and a little uneasy.
“Goin’ aboard, Mn Glover?” Lorimer
inquired.
Glover shook his head.
“I think not, Tod,” lie answered in an
undecided tone. “To tell you the truth,
I’ve had the pip all morning, thinking about
that confounded Laubogi fellow.” Glover’s
frown deepened. “I’ve half a mind to* stay
ashore, Tod. Take my cue from the R.M.,
you know. See how the cat jumps.”
“Y’ won’t see Merton for steam,” Lori-
mer averred. “ ’E’ll ’op it to Laubogi quick
an’ lively, without cornin’ ashore. See if I
ain’t, right. On’y bloomin’ thing ’e can
do, unless ’e’s a fool.”
Babaka saluted.
“You come aboard, Sah?” he inquired.
“No, Sergeant,” Glover decided. “Cast off.”
Babaka saluted again.
’Old on, Mister!” a cracked voice hailed
Glover from the shore. “Any charnce of a
lift, Mister?”
Lorimer spat into the sea in quick dis-
taste. “Sam Turver,” he said sourly. “Come
to drink ’is cobber’s ’ealth.”
■Barefooted, clad only in a ragged cotton
singlet that had once been white, unshaven
‘and unwashed, Sam Turver was not a
pleasant sight as he shuffled along the jetty.
“I’m afraid you’re too late, Turver.”
Glover answered, not unkindly, when Turver
had come up. “There’s no need for you
to go aboard, anyhow. If I were you I’d
buzz off. You’ll be in the way, I fancy.”
Turver drew back, muttering sullenly.
Glover took Lorimer by the arm.
“If Merton should bring his wife ashore,”
he began in a low voice, “I should like you
to”
“Don’t count on me, Mr. Glover,” Lori-
mer interrupted doggedly. “I’ve told y’
before, and I’ll tell y’ again, Merton is
nothin’ to me, and ’is woman is less.”
Glover turned away. The Laubogi launch
was still alongside the steamer, and he
could see luggage piled high in the cockpit.
The quicker Merton slipped off to Laubogi
with his bride the better it would be for
everybody, he reflected savagely.
“Taubada!”
Glover turned, facing the shore, Mari-
doga the cook was hailing him.
“How many place I makem ’long table'.
How many taubada come ’long kaikai, Tau-
bada?”
Glover thought a while.
“Five, Maridoga!” he called out. “Gel
a move on! Close up we come.”
“Six, Mr. Glover,” put in Lorimer.
“There’s me and you, the R.M., the new
patrol-officer bloke and the skipper. Unless.''
he added sourly, “Y’ givin’ me a miss.”
“Don’t be a silly ass, Tod!” remonstrated
Glover. “Six it is.” Then he called. “Six
taubada, Maridoga. I bin forget one.”
He turned again to the Siai. The Lau-
bogi launch had moved forward and the
whaleboat was at the ladder. He saw Blake
drop lightly into the sternsheets, and wave
his hand gaily.
Then Jimmy Glover rubbed his eyes. He
glanced quickly at Tod Lorimer. The old
man’s jaw had sagged, and his expression
was blank. “Well, I’ll—l’ll be damned!”
he muttered.
Glover wheeled. “Maridoga!” he bawled.
“Makem eight fella place ’long table.”.
“Eight fella place. Yessah!” .
“And flowers, Maridoga!” roared his
master. “Plenty flowers.”
The troubled expression had gone from
Glover.’s eyes and he was grinning. When
he spoke his voice was breezy.
“Savee, Tod?” he remarked. “Now, it’s
up to you.”
Lorimer was still staring incredulously at
the whaleboat —at Stephen Blake; at a girl
dressed in serviceable khaki who sat in
the sternsheets; at Harry Merton in speck-
less drill, lolling at ease on the after thwart;
at the skipper wearing a genial smile and
a rarely-used uniform cap; at a young
fellow in a newchum helmet who would be
the new patrol-officer.
There came a drift of rippling laughter
from the whaleboat, and a buzz of conver-
sation.
Glover gave Lorimer a lusty push. “Well,
Tod,” he demanded, “are you in with the
crowd or not?”
Tod Lorimer swallowed hard once or
twice. His eyes were still dazed. “Wot’s
■ good enough for Steve Blake.” he said, “is
good enough for me.”
(To be continued next week.)


GILBEYS
g\n
s £L
*43
o
o
- /.-
ftv
%
■
<■
V
\\
p
m
GILBEY S
3?
Older of Merit
*o
Q
&
xO
77<
'P
&
m
*
*6*
0»0n
GILBEYS
DRY GUN
102


i
wmmm
&M
m
:
■
.
■
■
m 'tfi•
',. ■ • * 4 *M
:-.••• •.- *
IMHIiV - jJT
1
-
■|M %?' ~ &"/Zs
W‘
&
■
nSBISBI " v ' ' \
m
-■■ • ::;
vfv-:.:;,■;'/ -•' ‘» ■ * , * -7V :
'v-/, V Z4 '4' '
WIS ‘'M' - V /
/- ; : •> >■
a
»
:*? V'T
■I
/- ■ = : ‘
■ :
’• • .
.
4m"' WMpw *o&zWffi/v j 4 j , %s
■mMmmSiSmSmm
1
: s
T
■HUh
--. ;7 |
t I
i. f
w§m
H
1
:
■
:
;
'
an
.
■
.
m
, g .
m
■
&• ■ ■ ■'.
iis
wmmmm
.
tml'
m
spariiw:h<i
■
V 1
5 ;■■■,;'
hock:
1
.
m
r.
<y
Ms
r-; ; .
HSI
•"*
»
*«%}
m
w.
■.
n
i *
if?
an
:n wonder u)kai
Vmtci s b«i)
o nehaU so precious
as the Goods
ihoy
V
-
p
I ■
T>
mm
i
(5
mrs
M


A wonderful
body builder"
d
Is always
fresh & pure
*
fn 4 sizes
of all Chemists t Store*
Accommodation
160.
Central,
Comfortable,
Convenient,
5 Mts. G.P.O.
Excellent
Cuisine,
Billiards,
Dancing.
ORIENTAL HOTEL
(No License)
KING’S CROSS, SYDNEY.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET.
TARIFF:
Weekly,
£3/3/- to
£4/4/-
Daily,
11/6 to 12/6.
Room & B’fast,
8/6 to 9/6
FL2034
F 3575
W&W26.
ME
London Office:
“Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
MAN*
BRANS
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
r»
U {I
m
A
MMSi
JNCiS & SERVICE
Charity
WERE ALL THE PRISONERS WHO WERE SENT TO BOTANY BAY IN
THE FIRST FLEET UNDER CAPTAIN PHILLIP BAD ’UNS f
J. H. M.
ABBOTT
here tells the remarkable story of ore of them,
i yd answers the question decisively.
ARTHUR PHILLIP stood and looked
at the assembled subjects of the
singular kingdom over which it had
pleased Providence and Mr. W illiam Pitt
to appoint him ruler. His spare figure
had stiffened, and his kindly, plain face, with
its big nose and sensitive mouth, hardened
a little. Not for the prisoners’ gratified
acceptance were such words of praise to be
proffered as he had just uttered to the rank
and tile of the marine garrison of the new
colony. He had something else to say, and
the saying gave him little pleasure. Soft
and easy words would not and must be-
plain speaking, and nothing else.
It was a sunny morning in the beginning
„f February, 1788 —the seventh of the month,
to be pi'ecise—and all British Australasia
was gathered at the head of Sydney Cove to
listen to the Governor-General of this forlorn
community as he made clear his policy.
Behind their backs stood a dense forest of
tall trees, in front of them shone the blue
waters of the little bay on which they were
as yet no more than encamped, and across
the narrow sti’eam of the gi'eat harbor high,
dark, densely-wooded hills suggested the
illimitable Unknown that lay beyond their
ragged skyline. Round about the gathering
white tents gleamed in the sunlight against
sombre scrub, and here and there a shelter
of bark and boughs, supported upon saplings
cut from the forest, still very imperfectly
cleared as a site for their camp, marked the
position of the cook-houses for soldiers and
convicts —the only architecture yet attempted.
There was a strange and unfamiliar aro-
matic scent of burning eucalyptus in the
clear air, strange birds called to one another
in the woods, and the bright sunshine seemed
grotesquely out of place for the time of year.
The marines, with bayonets fixed, were
drawn up in three sides of a square. Before
them squatted on the ground, the women in
the rear of the men, the male and female
convicts. Stolid and stupid faces, crafty
faces, wicked faces, faces that had no expres-
sion at all, gazed and grinned and gaped
lip at the epauletted, blue-coated naval officer
who seemed to tower above them with the
rolled-up commission in his hand that had
just been proclaimed to the world by Judge-
Advocate Collins.
For a few moments he searched the
faces with his eyes, as though vainly looking
for ten just men. A woman blew her nose
at the back of the crowd. The Captain-
General and Goveruor-in-Chief in and over
His Majesty’s Territory of New South
Wales —as King George had just entitled
him through the mouth of his trusty and
well-beloved David Collins —started a little
at the unseemly noise, and then began to
speak—slowly, emphatically, a little threat-
eningly. This is what he said, according to
the note very obligingly taken by Mr. Mid-
shipman Daniel Southwell, of 11.M.5. Sirius:
"You have now been particularly informed
of the nature of the laws,” he said, “by which
you are to be governed, and also of the power
with which I am invested to put them into
full ’ execution. There are amongst you, I
am willing to believe, some who ai’e not per-
fectly abandoned, and who, I hope and trust,
will make the intended use of the conspicu-
ous indulgence and lenity their humane coun-
try has offered; but, at the same time, there
are many—l am sorry to add, by far the
greater part—who are innate villains of the
most abandoned principles. To punish these
shall be my constant care, and in this
duty I ever will be indefatigable, however
disturbing it may be to my feelings.
"Therefore,” he continued impressively
after a pause, and now speaking very delib-
erately—“therefore you have my sacred word
of honor that whenever ye commit a fault
you shall be punished, and most severely.
Lenity has been tried; to give it further
trial would be vain. I am no stranger to
the-oxse you make of every indulgence. I
speak of what comes under my particular
observation; and again I add that a vigorous
exercise of the law, whatever it may cost
my feelings, shall follow closely upon the
heels of every offender.”
He ceased to speak, and stood looking
down on them in silence for a moment or
two, and they seemed to squirm a little under
that honest and sorrowful gaze. They knew
Phillip was sorry for them —not so sorry
as they were for themselves perhaps, but
none the less genuinely and sympathetically
sorry. But they knew also that here was a
man to whom duty was no less sacred than
he had but just now declared his word of
honor to be; that, if tearing them limb
from limb were the only fashion in which
he could discharge his duty of keeping them
within the ways of discipline, they would
assuredly be torn limb from limb. He
was a kind man, a good man, but
j ie was also an “unsafe” man—unsafe
trifle with or sot at naught or
try to hoodwink. Best, they silently
agreed, as they sat on the ground and stared
at this quiet post-captain of the Navy, best
an<l wiseßt it would be to take Art b«r Pliilli L >
goriwusly At any time a p ost . ca ptain was
something to be reckoned with. But here
~ imt mprplv th<* tvrmt of nnnrtpr-
S»k. They lm’f m! whTwH i,, tilta
" <OT, ‘'- in - cu,n "‘ a ‘“ i “> GoJ
The mutual meditative stare of the Gov-
®™or ant ] thosc t 0 wh om he had announced
th< ? way he meant to govern them was dis-
solved with startling suddenness by a woman s
f¥ ll] aud exclamation,wvhndi came
from somewhere at the hack ot Ins Excel-
hmey s audience. The whole assemblage was
Jtartled and brought to a realisation of the
cts of the present It seemed to emphasise
Th« every-day-of-the-week aspect of the
ccda i? y s condition
n P an ? a you ‘ Let go my baud.
The Governor turned towards his officers,
This screaming voice—it had reminded him
that the women were a problem a very sen-
ous Problem, as to the solving of whicn he—
a ™ rc nmu—ncedwl a s much counsel as he
could get. to deal \nth these outcast
creatures of another sex, which, being a wise
mal L he knew he did not know, was going
to be a troublesome business. Not having
his wife to’consult, he must consult with his
brother-officers. And they were only men,
Y°°- He sighed as he began to address them
111 a ‘ ow and anxious tone of voice,
The youthful Provost-Marshal—he had
been a midshipman in the Sirius when the
sudden sickness of the regularly-appointed
Provost had called him to the thankless posi-
tion—flushed a little as he walked between
the. rows of ribald ladies squatting on the
grass and leering up at him. A.little bash-
was young Harry Brewer as he felt him-
sejf the object of so much female interest
and cur i o sity
“Lord!” he heard one brazen wench com-
numi]Qg with her neighbor in a strident
whisper. “He’d do me.”
He gianced at the woman with a frown,
hut s ] ie on j y p Urse( j up thick, red lips in a
kissing grimace and grinned up impudently
at him as b e wa ik e d by in embarrassment. It
was time to bp stem with ’em, thought the
10V °st-Maishal. lie recalled the
ni f ht bey came ash , ore a we f ek f , or 80 a .f;
wh ‘‘ n t ,e ® ailors got amongst them whilst
* Ithunderstorm 1 thunderstorm raged through the forest and
the camp was nearly blown away, and such
an orgy had.taken place in the women’s; lines
a f no decent mind could contemplate without
? kame * H , e threw , a rasp mto hl f Y°i ce that
lt: w f T* easy for a nervous lad to corn-
marid with all those creatures about him.
f w ’ tliea [ r ! >e *Y ied V* bark and growl
togeth £ r u an g did not make a notable sud-
°Jn i*: j, °,, pannes were gnn-
11n B Vu- nd \ e bd Y l, '| 1 in his face. \\ hat s
about Who was it called out?
b at s ? the trouble with ye, then.
took me baccy-box.
A n °^ d ’ wrinkled woman with a hoarse
Y 01C !? was the complainant. She was lean-
back ' Vlth . fury her ugly countenance,
g J lpp £ n ? tp uaciously in one of her claw-like,
clenched talons the wrist of a young girl
kneeling on the ground behind her—a not
ill-looking girl, Mr. Brewer thought, with a
momentary predisposition in her favoi', for
which he immediately condemned himself.
“Taken your tobacco ! Damme” —he tried
to be stern and harsh —“where did she take
it fi-om? How’d she take it?”
“ ’Twas on th’ ground, please y’r Honor,
an’ I had me hand over it w’en she brings
her heel down on me knuckles an’ grabs it.
But I was too quick for her. They
carn’t come it over ole Jessie, these
young ’uns. Gawd, she's but a babby ! Wot’s
th’ like o’ ’er a-wantin’ wi’ ’baccy?”
“Come now, did you touch her tobacco-
box?” Mr. Brewer demanded.
She wag quite a young girl, he thought—•
seventeen or eighteen, not any more—and she
looked sweeter and more innocent than he
would have deemed it possible for any of
that crew to look after the things that had
occurred the night they landed. But she
smiled at him, and he had doubts about her
innocence.
“Look here,” he said, “what did you try
to take her tobacco for? Come, now, did
you try to take it, or was it an accident?”
“Oh, you go and bed and!”, said the
maiden with careless good humor.
What response he might have made Mr.
Brewer was a little uncertain; lie was saved
the trouble by a hail from his Excellency.
“Bring the woman here, Mr. Brewer.”
“And you’d better come, too,’ he told the
elderly dame.
When he heard the case explained, Phillip
looked stern and angry. The young girl
smiled at him. confident in youth and good
looks. The old woman indulged in a series
of curtseys, as if she hoped good manners
might atone for poor appearance.
“Do you realise that you’ve all but com-
mitted a capital offence?” the Governor asked
the girl. “I’ll permit no pilfering, and am
determined to put it down. What have you
to say for yourself? What is your name?”
“Charity Braund, sir.” There was a light-
ness and impudence in her tone that angered
the Governor a little. That his warning
should have fallen on such deaf ears was
galling to him. How should he deal with
these women? It was a problem that would
puzzle a sage.
“Now, look here, my girl,” he said presently.
“I doubt but you’re vain of your good looks—
all that golden hair, eh? Well, I’m going
to have it cut off. That will remind ye that
I mean what I say, and that it’s to be
taken seriously. Please arrange for it, Mr.
Brewer. Have her head shaved, and paint
a large ‘T’ on the back of her frock. So that
all men will know her for a thief, and take
warning of her. I think that will punish
you. See to it, Mr. Provost.”
The startling change that came over Miss
Charity Braund was amazing to the men,
and a little gratifying to those in authority;
for, lo! here was a weapon with which to
chastise the difficult frail ones. A wily bird,
the Governor!
The girl burst into passionate tears, and
cast herself down before Phillip, grovelling
on the ground,' clutching her really beautiful
tresses in both her hands, so that they
tumbled about her shoulders, as she implored
her judge for mercy. The other women
looked scared, and muttered fearfully amongst
themselves.
“Oh, sir—oh, Mister Phillip, dear Mister
Phillip— not that, please—oh, please!” wailed
the girl distressfully.
But most astonishing was the changp in
the old woman Jessie. She clawed the Gov-
ernor’s arm.
“Oh. my Gawd, Mister —don't do that to
’er! ’Ere, I’ll give her th’ ’baccy an’
say no more about it, hif ye’ll spare ’er that,
y’r honor. Oh, my Gawd, be a gennleman,
sir!”
Phillip looked bewildered, and then he
smiled the rare smile that gave his plain
face such sweetness. He touched the weep-
ing girl’s tawny little head with his palm.
“There, there!” he said. “Go you away.
Charity Braund, and try to be good. Charity!
Indeed, I think this good dame is not without
it —I do, indeed ! Old woman, look after her.
Keep her from harm. But a child she is!
Help her. I see you have some charity.
Practise it on this poor child.”
;J: :J: ❖ *
It was in 1905 that the Rev. William Bot-
tishoru told me the story of his mother in
his home at Tunbridge Wells, in Kent, when
I was spending one of several week-ends in
the fascinating company of the old gentle-
man and his reminiscences of early Aus-
tralia. I remember the date, because it was
the year of the Trafalgar centenary, when
the French admirals visited I-*ondon, and
stood in their carriages to salute Lord Nelson
up there on his tall pedestal.
He was an old man then—ninety or so
but liis head was as clear, and his impres-
sions as vivid, as if the things he fascinated
me with had happened only last week, let
he had been born at Newcastle, ui New South
Wales, on the day that. Waterloo was fought,
and he had not been in Australia since 1850
—for just half a century. A silvery-haired,
clean-shaven, ascetic-looking old man lie was,
who reminded me of a pen-and-ink drawing
I had once made from a portrait of Cardinal
Manning, years before, in the drawing-class
at The King’s School. llow splendid he
used to look, leaning back in a big easy-
chair that went on wheels under the great
spreading cedar-of-Lebanon that grew on the
close-clipped lawn in front of his ancient
red-brick home on the outskirts of Tunbridge
Wells ! A picture of old age that made old
age beautiful.
He was an Oxford man, of a long-departed
era, and his talk of his undergraduate days,
when Queen Victoria was a young woman
and the Crimean War had not been fought,
were interesting enough; but very naturally,
to an Australian, the story of one’s own coun-
try in its first years was what mattered most,
lie had clear-cut memories of his boyhood;
he could remember being taken to see Gov-
ernor Macquarie depart from Newcastle on
the occasion of that redoubtable personage’s
last visit to the Hunter River at the end
of 1821. But it was what he had had from
his mother that u;as best to listen to. She
had been a First-llcetcr.
This is a very young country when you
come to think of it. Here am I, only a
bit on the shady side of fifty, able to tell
you what was told to this friend of mine
by his mother, an eye-witness of Governor
Phillip’s swearing-in ceremony on the shores
of Sydney Cove, on the 7th of February,
1788. And that mother —the Rev. William
Bottishoru’s mother—was Charity Braund !
He had no sort of shame over liis mother
having been a “lag”—nothing but the great-
est admiration and affection for her. She
had been an angel amongst women, he said —
one in a hundred thousand. It seems she
was gently born, but had had a wild streak
in her —something a little romantic and a
little defiant —and had run away from home
to go on the . stage. So she became mixed
up with some worthless, good-looking fellow
who led her into a piece of villainy which
got him hanged and her transported. She
had been married to him in Ne,wgate, and
St. Sepulchre’s Church bell, tolling as lie
departed this life in the Old Bailey to the
jeers of a London crowd, which she could
hear inside the prison walls, had announced
her widowhood when she was only seven-
teen ! Her baby died, and then she did not
care much what happened to her. But Gov-
ernor Phillip saved her by threatening to
cut her hair off. He didn’t suppose a woman
less vain of very pronounced good looks had
ever existed than his mother was as he
remembered her in the prime of life. Excep-
tionally handsome. Really beautiful. But
her vanity, she had always said, had been her
salvation. He would tell me the story.
I have put that story together in the
first part of this narrative, though not in
the inimitable fashion in which it was
told by the delightful old parson.
It seems that William Bottishorn, master
of a South Sea whaler, came to Sydney in
Governor King’s time, saw Charity Braund,
fell in love with her and asked the Gover-
nor’s permission to marry her. For a long
time she refused him. She said she
respected him too much to let him marry
a girl who’d come to the colony in the Lady
Penrhyn. By this time she was a young
woman of twenty-four or so, and the best-
looking one in the settlement.
“Big- Bill,” as most people called Bot-
tishorn. raved and mooned and grew desper-
ate and melancholy by turns, and then a
pretty bad lot named Kate Mulcahy, a red-
headed, passionate girl, went after him. That
was too much for Charity, so she married
him. Thereupon he sold liis share in the
whaler, and settled down on the Ilawkesbury
on a grant of land that was given them by
Governor Bligh, who also gave Charity a full
pardon by way of a wedding present.
They did very well indeed on the land, and
after a few years went and settled on the
Hunter, somewhei'e near where the Williams
flows into it—about Millar’s Forest, I should
say. When the Hunter Valley was opened
(Continued on page 57.)
Plodding!
Now the night falls, and now the seas
blacken,
As forward I fare
Through the thick, sodden air,
Knee-deep in the bracken.
Trees loom in the dark, their branches
upraising,
Like things that desire;
I dream of a fire —
Big logs redly blazing!
Through the murk with a desolate soul
that remembers
Bright moments I go;
Ah the fires, once aglow,
Are naught but black embers!
Ah the blush on the wall, and the
gleam on the rafter,
Ah the laughter and light,
Ah the quick-passing night ,
And the dead embers after!
Through the rain and the dark and the
wind and the thunder,
With bracken knee-high
And sodden trees nigh,
Soul-sickened I blunder.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Hanking, Public Companies, etc.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 703,125
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS
Gieat Bi itain and Ireiand, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and tiansacts all other usual Banking business.
UNITED
THE
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Fire Insurances* ft* ot«i on nil classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks on Wool, Merchandise,
■ Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. O. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
'Jilllll
is
%
m
K
l
JC
BE EPEE FROi
ASTHMA
No matter how severe your
ASTHMA, CATARRH, COLD
IN THE HEAD, BRONCHITIS,
etc Potter’s Asthma Powder
brings immediate and soothing
relief.
Of a'l Medicine Vendors 2/6 per Tin.
POTTER tx CLARKE. LTD..
Artillery Lane, London, England
bo* outdoors, use Potter's Smoking
Mixture and Cigarettes
ASTHMA //:.
iBMTO
Übe Dominion,
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily.
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion" is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Shipping, etc.
2
HOLIDAY IN THE PACIFIC ISLES
RAPIDLY growing in popularity, the
Union Company Excursions from
Sydney to Raratonga and Papeete
(Tahiti) may yet rival the old-established
holiday trips to Honolulu. The swift trans-
pacific steamers of the Union Royal Mail
Line afford a superb ocean holiday, as well
as a glimpse of New Zealand’s Capital.
Forward booking is advisable to ensure
picked accommodation on these island
excursions.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY, 247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne, Cl.
BURNS-PHILP TOURS
JAVA
(The Land of Eternal Summer).
OLD BUDDHISTIC AND HINDUISTIC
TEMPLES—NATIVE BAZAARS.
EXCELLENT BIG-GAME SHOOTING.
BEAUTIFUL TROPICAL SCENERY.
EXTENSIVE TEA GARDENS.
INTERESTING PEOPLE.
Regular monthly sailings by the favorite
vessels “MARELLA” (7500 tons) and
"MALABAR” (5000 tons).
Pacific Island Excursions
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon
Islands, Lord Howe Island, Norfolk
Island and New Hebrides.
TRIPS OF TWO TO FIVE WEEKS’
DURATION.
Apply to
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide.
Wf/i
\
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Nestor .. . 15,000 tons, Sept. 9
{Demosthenes 11,500 „ Sept. 28
{Ceramic . . 18,500 „ Oct. 26
*§Ulysses . . 15,000 ~ Oct. 29
* First class only. {First and Third--class.
{“Cabin” class only. §Via Suez.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson Ltd.
Joint
Agents
Splendid Cheap Service
Via Suez Canal.
FAST OIL BURNERS
Excellent Menu. Late Dinner.
Fares to London from £3B.
To Colombo, from £22.
Special Excursion Return Tickets to
Colombo issued from Sept, to Feb., £32.
P. 8 0. BRANCH SERVICE
For particulars apply
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Box 513 AA, 5 O’Connell St., Sydney
’Phone: 86701
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
■■ - \ With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund. i
Reserve Liability
A
£7,500,000
5,900,000.
7,500,000
£20.900,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER SO, 1928, £88,982,585.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
554 Branches and Agencies'’lp "the "Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua
Mandated Tenitory oi New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Balls Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit. issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Shipping, etc,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTL:
(Transhipping for outports).
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane Issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening ; pussengerj
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONCJBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £*
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/8/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/16/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart ParkerL
j... Magnirioeiit
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars appIyHUDDART PARK ERLIMITEO
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
/
s 1
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL & Cu*
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for tne original.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
'Qlfje if#!
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, 133 a Pitt Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.


A Camel
travels 11 days, SAFELY
on ONE water supply—
z
H * w?
N's
\bur Car,
500 miIes,SAFELY on i
OMt complete lubrication /
rive a camel beyond his ‘'lubrication 7 ’ limit
and there is trouble. So it is with a motor
car. Then you meet the irresistible forces of
wear and tear and friction. You pay repair
bills of which 80 per cent are due to this one
easily avoided cause.
Of course you will not take this chance when
Alemite the scientific method of complete
lubrication —may be had so easily and econom-
ically. For with Alemite, used regularly every
500 miles, the chief source ojf mechanical
trouble is removed.
Alemite forces lubricant, under tremendous
pressure, to every Vital Chassis Bearing on
your car. It pushes out old, gritty grease, forc-
ing in clear, clean, solidified oil. That’s why 95
per cent of all American cars now manufac-
tured are equipped with Alemite.
We suggest you ask your nearest dealer or
write for full particulars.
What Alemite-ing Does
for Any Car
1. BEARINGS: GenuineAlemit eHighPressure
lubricant forced into every vital chassis bear-
ing with Alemite equipment. Every 500 miles.
2. GEARS: Differential and transmission thor-
oughly flushed out by a special Alemite process.
New Alemite Gear Lubricant forced in. Every
2,500 miles.
3. SPRINGS: Given an Alemite Graphite
Spring Bath. They are sprayed with special
Alemite Graphite Penetrating Oil—every 500
miles. Eliminates squeaks and makes car run
smoother.
Genuine Alemite-ing—every 500
miles—costs no more than ordinal,
inefficient “greasing/’ Then notice
how your repair bills decrease; how
much better your car runs.
f
See your nearest dealer or write for particulars.
ALEMITE MANUFACTURING CORPORATION
DIVISION OF STEWART-WARNER
Chicago, U. S. A.
Full particulars from
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH
Resident Manager,
250 Pitt Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following Representatives:
Bennett & Wood, Ltd 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
Motor Supplies, Ltd Brisbane
Atkins (W. A.), Ltd 894 Hay Street, Perth
E. A. Machin & Co., Ltd. . 535 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
Cornell Limited, 122 Pirie Street, Box G. P. 0., 496 E., Adelaide
For the Dominion of New Zealand:
Jas. J. Niven & Co., . 152 Wakefield Street, Wellington, N. Z.
ALEMITI
High Pressure Lubrication
iff!
up they took up a station on the Dartbrook,
.ait from Scone, and in the ’thirties Captain
Bottishorn stocked a couple of runs out-
side the county of Brisbane, over the range,
in the Liverpool Plains country. Young
William was brought up on the Dartbrook
property —Whispering Valley, it was called,
from some remarkable echoes, that were to
be heard in the neighborhood. And when
the old whaler died, about 1840, Charity
of the golden hair that was beginning to
turn grey managed the stations with re-
markable' success. The portrait of her hang-
ing over the mantelpiece? in her son’s dining-
room at Tonbridge Wells was painted about
this time. She must have been a truly lovely
woman. Brains and goodness and abiding
charm —those wore the qualities the artist
had immortalised in that picture of Mrs.
Charity Bottishorn as she was in middle age.
‘‘Oh, dear me,” said her son, smiling
in his gentle way, “she never forgot the
lesson Governor Phillip taught her. Just to
tell you. I remember the incident perfectly,
though I was only a little lad when it hap-
pened, just after we were settled on the
Dartbrook. We had a woman there, one
Mary Kennedy—a great, strapping Scots
wench, who was most unruly. An assigned
servant, of course —we had about two score
of them at Whispering Valley, men and
women. Neither my father nor my mother
could do anything with her. A terror! Sin?
was employed in the dairy, and one morning,
in a fit of fiendish temper, she upset all the
cream-pans—every one of them —and threw
all the butter into the muddy milking-yard.
“Hen nosy, the super., came to my mother
in a great state, demanding Mary’s blood;
at any rate, that she should be sent in to the
Bench of Magistrates at Scone, who would
return her to the factory at Parramatta —
the depot for female prisoners, you know.
But my mother hated to send any of them
back to the Factory; her idea was to reform
them hy kind treatment, and marry them
off to settlers along the Upper Hunter, who
were always looking for wives. So she told
Hennesy to think out some punishment for
the woman—she wouldn’t have her sent
away.
“An hour afterwards Mary, completely
cowed, came sobbing to my mother. Hen-
nesy and two or three of the men had caught
her and held her, and cropped her hair as
close as they could. She’d had magnificent
auburn hair. She was in a state of hysteria.
“Never before or afterwards did 1 set* my
mother in a rage. 1 could almost believe
that if she’d had a pistol handy she would
have shot Jim Hennesy when lie came into
the room after she had sent for him. She
was as fierce as a tigress.
“‘You infamous scoundrel!’ she cried at
him. ‘l’ll have you gaoled for this. Get
out of my sight! Never let me see your
face about the station again. You cruel
villain !’
“Hennesy was free, but that didn’t daunt
her. I believe she actually made love to
old Snodgrass, the Police Magistrate in
Scone —a preposterous old beau —and in-
duced him to give poor Jim three months
when she had him charged before the Bench
with cruelly misusing a female prisoner. And
he was sent down to Newcastle to work on
the breakwater.
“Oh, but my poor mother!” the old gentle-
man laughed merrily. “For d'ye know what
Mary did? Why, she married Jim Hen-
nesy as soon as he’d served his sentence!
What do you think of that now?”
The Sea Giveth.
R EXON BUTCHART's
ETORY OF THE MATE WHO RAW IT THROUGH.
THE port captain of the Austral Trad-
ing and Navigation Company shrugged
his shoulders in helplessness.
“I know it’s rough. Campbell, but I can't
do anything. The owners are sore—mighty
sore —over the Spray; and it’s just your bad
luck that you happen to be the scapegoat.”
He shrugged again. “The sea giveth and the
sea taketh away,” he paraphrased senten-
tiously, and rose to terminate the interview,
But as he shook hands with the other his
voice changed. “Why not try to get a shore
job?” he suggested. “You’re going to have
a rough passage getting another command,
I’m afraid.”
Campbell shook his head. “No, Charlie,
not for me—even if 1 could get one, and
that’s not likely now.” He squared his
shoulders. “Besides, I’m young yet—for the
sea. Only fifty-three.”
“It’s not that, Gregor.” Now that the
official interview was over, the port cap-
tain spoke as friend to friend. They had
joined the A. T. and N. almost on the same
day—nearly forty years ago. “Itis not that,
Gregor; hut there’s been the devil to pay
over this business of the Spray, and you’ll
find it hard to get a command. When the
A. T. and N. lets a* skipper go there’s not
many will risk taking him on.” He broke
off abruptly. “It’s a damned shame, Greg,
hut the owners are the owners, and I daren’t
argue with them any more. I’ve told them
a dozen times that you weren’t on the bridge,
that there was no need for you to be on
the bridge, that I’d sailed that course my-
self scores of times and never gone on the
bridge there. But it was no good. They
must have a scapegoat—and you’re it. Greg,
old man, don’t forget—if I can help you
in any way, let me know.”
But as he watched the other go slowly
through the doorway he knew that there
would be no shore billet that could tempt
Gregor Campbell away from his beloved
sea—he would rather take a berth before the
mast than work ashore. As the port cap-
tain turned back to his desk, he shook his
head. It was quite on. the cards, he reflected,
that that was just what Gregor Campbell
would have to do eventually. It was rarely
that the A. T. and N. discharged one of
it captains outright without the option of
•simple reduction in rank, and there would
be no one likely to take Gregor Campbell
on, despite his hitherto unblemished record.
And Gregor Campbell knew that too.
If he had not known it he would have
learned it surely enough during the next
week as he visited one shipping office after
another. They were all sympathetic—every-
one in Melbourne who was connected with
the sea knew Gregor Campbell—but the story
was always the same. They had no berths
going just at the moment, not even a third-
officership. But if he would cal] round
again in a year or 50....
At the end of a week Gregor Campbell
admitted to himself what he had -been striv-
ing to keep relegated to the depths of his
subconscious mind. “Give a dog a bad
name.” Well, he had the bad name —and
he w T as down and out. Everybody was sorry
for him. They all knew that it had been
no fault of his, but they dared not take him
on. Not after the unpleasant publicity that
the wreck of the Austral Spray had had in
the better-class dailies as well as the cheaper
rags. There had been unpleasant loss of
life —panic-stricken passengers who over-
crowded the first two boats launched so that
they tipped over, and the currents round the
Seagull Rock had swept them away.
Certainly the remainder of the passengers
and the crew had got away safely; but
amongst them had been the chief officer, who,
even in the confusion and terror of ship-
wreck, had laughed and joked and guffawed
crazily. So that even to the biggest land-
lubber the reason was plain why the Austral
Spray was two miles off her course, and the
papers were full of the tragedy that one
man’s drunkenness could occasion such appal-
ling loss of life and money.
And Gregor Campbell was the scapegoat.
He should have known that Lis chief was
in no condition to take the bridge—and so
on. Public opiniou had been roused, and
the owners had been roused too. With the
result that Captain Gregor Campbell was
“on the beach.” But at least he was still
■Captain, even though he had no boat. For
the Marine Court, indifferent alike to mob
sentiment and profit and loss accounts, had
found no reason to take away his certificate.
He was still Captain Campbell, with a ticket
for all oceans and all tonnages.
Six months later it was dawning upon him
that the prospect of even a second or third’s
bertli) was remote. The dog still had its bad
name. He took to haunting the water-front,
staring wistfully at the liners that came and
went, and watching, with almost unseeing
eyes, the busy cranes that seemed to shriek
at him as they ran their cargoes up and
down. “Out of this!” they cried. “Only
workers are wanted here —and you can’t
work. That’s worse than won’t work!”
Then, almost twelve months to the day
from the time he said good-bye to the offices
of the A. T. and N., Captain Gregor Camp-
bell signed his- articles as third officer of a
3000-tou freighter that carried odd cargoes—
anything that its owners could lay their
hands on—-between Port Phillip and Maori-
land.
It was a come-down almost as bad as
signing on before the mast. From fourteen
thousand tons and in sole command to three
thousand —and third ! But it was work—
that was the main point! Work on the be-
loved sea. Better that than a clerk’s job
in any city office.
As he leaned against the rail and watched
the Queenscliff lighthouse slipping slowly
past, he thought of the twelve months that
had just gone, and knew that, even had he
indeed been before the mast, lie would slid
have felt the same thrill in his veins. With
the tang of the Strait blowing in through
the Heads, he straightened himself and
turned towards the bow; and it seemed to
him that the sudden urge of the Rip which
was lifting the Waigona was putting new-
life into him, so that his step became buoyant
and his eyes gleamed with anew zest. The
ocean was welcoming him home again !
* * * *
Five days out, the Waigona ran into a
hurricane that suddenly met her one morn-
ing like the wall of a house. From out of
an almost clear sky the clouds had gathered,
and the wind had bunched itself together to
hurtle, a bare half-hour later, with devilish
glee on the ship.
It was the Tasman at its worst, and the
Waigona staggered and lurched her way
across a world of grey water until she
groaned in every plate and rivet, while the
chief engineer nursed his beloved engines
that threatened to race themselves to de-
struction with every lift of the vessel’s stern.
Two days of it the Waigona bore, battling
bravely, gamely fighting her losing fight,
struggling up the green-grey mountains and
sliding dizzily down their further slopes,
rolling, plunging, half-halting, but always
keeping her nose gallantly to her course. ...
until the threshing screw, catching the second
engineer napping, whirled for a good quarter-
minute above water level before the propel-
ler-shaft, in protest against the treatment,
put an end to it by snapping in halves.
That was the end of the unequal contest.
Two hours later the Waigona was still
afloat, but wallowing soddenly, a dead thing
at the mercy of the ocean, her skipper pacing
the sloping bridge and waiting for his chief
to reappear from the chart-room.
“Where do you make us?” he asked as
the chief emerged; and his voice held the
tones of defeat.
“Not more than fifty or sixty miles off
Auckland Island, I should say,” the chief
answered; and his suggestion that they
would have a following wind and sea in the
boats dissolved any last doubts that the skip-
per might have had about leaving his ship.
A sudden sickening lurch, more drunken
and more sudden than any that had gone
before, brought the order to the crew to man
the boats. “Which they’d have done in any
case, and without orders, before long,” the
skipper growled to himself as he stood on the
bridge and watched the leeward boats finding
their keels in safety.
It may have been coincidence, but to
Gregor Campbell’s mind it was Fate that
his boat was on the windward side, and
therefore was not launched ; so that he found
himself still on the bridge beside the skipper
when everybody else was off the ship.
“Come on.” the skipper said, with a last
farewell look at the decks of the Waigona.
It hurt him to be leaving, but there was
nothing else to do. There was no point in
needlessly throwing his life away. If the
Waigona could have been guaranteed to
(Continued on next page.)


FRUIT SALT
FW
m
o
A - r y i c. / °o o °
&
SICK HEADACHES
are usually
caused by faulty
elimination
Nowadays, when the stress of modern life makes great
demands on our physical and mental resources, we are
all liable to constipation and the ailments to which it
leads—sick headaches, fatigue, bilious attacks and
other troubles. To attack this condition with
drastic purgatives can at the best only bring temporary
relief, and is certain to shock the system unnecessarily.
Eno’s “Fruit Salt” deals with these “ills of civilisation”
in much the same way that regular exercise, fresh air
and simple food would do. For Eno prompts the most
important of the bodily functions to work dutifully and
to time. Eno removes the waste and poisons of yesterday
from the system, safely, naturally and thoroughly. Yet
Eno is so mild you can give it to any child. Follow this
golden rule of family health, proved for sixty years; a
glass of Eno’s “Fruit Salt” —sparkling and refreshing—
first thing every morning.
Sales Agents: ißritish Sfiarold < tf. fflitchie & Go., £td., Sydney, c/V ,S. C W.
ENOS
-FRUIT SALT :
For Any Travel
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
In co-operation with
WAGONS-UTS CO.
d
PASSAGES
By all lines, all routes, all classes,
at bedrock fares. No booking fees.
TO EUROPE 1930
As berthing plans for all steamers
are open, BOOK. NOW to ensure
comfort on the voyage.
ESCORTED EUROPEAN TOURS
We offer choice of a dozen different
tours leaving Australia in February.
March and April, at fares to suit all
purses. Apply for special pro-
gramme.
WINTER TOURS
To Queensland, Java, Siam, Japan,
Hawaii, California, Indo-China,
Ceylon, etc.
TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES
A boon to travellers, safe, conveni-
ent, good everywhere. Apply f° r
particulars.
SAILING LISTS
Programmes and all information
post free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE: 269 Collins Street.
SYDNEY: Martin Place.
ADELAIDE: 49 Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE: Adelaide Street.
PERTH: Forrest Place, opp. G.P.O.
AUCKLAND: Queen Street.
WELLINGTON: Corner Hunter and
Featherston Streets.
sink within ten minutes he might have
played the traditional rOle of going down
with his ship, but as it was
Campbell shook his head.
“I’m not coming,” he said, and shrugged
his shoulders at the surprise in the other’s
eyes. “What’s the good? Why go back to
job-hunting again? Besides,” he added whim-
sically, with an odd twirk of humor at his
lips, “I’ll never have another ship to go
down with. When you’re off I’ll be in com-
mand here, won’t I?”
The other looked at him searchingly.
“I don’t know that you’re not right,” he
said. He knew the story of Gregor Camp-
bell and that other wreck. “And I don’t
know that I can blame you.” He held out
his hand. “I think I’d do the same myself
in your circumstances,” and turned towards
the rail.
By midnight of the following day the
hurricane had blown itself out, and, although
the Waigona still wallowed as soddenly as
ever, there was now no wind to heel her
further over with every wave, and the waters
themselves were not quite so angry. The
clouds had cleared and the moon lighted the
ocean and the wallowing derelict with an odd
ghostly effect:, so that Gregor Campbell, lean-
ing against: the bridge rail, and marvelling
that the Waigona still floated, found it hard
to realise that the scene was not some
chimera of sice]).
The next morning did nothing to destroy
his cheerful ness. The sky was without clouds
and the ocean was no longer a surging world
of grey and white foam. The long rollers,
aftermath of the days of hurricane, still
caught the Waigona in their sweep, but
their summits were now smooth, and the
derelict lifted more comfortably to each one.
Gregor Campbell sang softly to himself as
lie prepared a breakfast of eggs and steaming
coffee. He might be going down with his
ship—when if went —but that was no reason
for mooning about with an empty stomach.
He chuckled as lie, stirred his coffee. It
would be funny if he did not go down at all!
He wondered, with an odd sense of detach-
ment, how long he might continue drifting.
Like the Wandering Jew! On and ever on
across trackless seas..,.for the term of his
natural life!
Not that it would matter, though. He was
as well off here, with a ship of' his own, as
he would have been on shore—back at the
old weary pilgrimage, trapsing the streets
and the unsympathetic quays.
It was six days later that Gregor Camp-
bell, coming on deck on waking, saw that
which caused his heart to miss a beat. Not
four miles off, and heading in his direction,
there was a steamer. He stared at it in
astonishment not untinged with regret. He
had grown accustomed to the idea of travel-
ling on, day after day, alone on a trackless
ocean, and this sudden advent of a fellow-
traveller meant that his journey would soon
he. over. He was not to go down with his
ship, after all. He would be taken aboard
this stranger, and tamely he would be landed
at some port, so that lie could once more
start the old search for a berth.
Impassively he waited as the two vessels,
the liner and the derelict, drew closer
together. Impassively lie watched the liner
heave to, and a boat put off. They were
coming for him —and he was not anxious to
go.
The young second officer who commanded
the boat stared up in astonishment as the
figure on the bridge shook his head. For a
sudden idea had come to Campbell and he
found his problem solved for him. He would
not go tamely back to civilisation! The Wai-
gona was his, and he would stick to his own.
. "You go back, and tell your master that
I'm flying) no distress signal, young fellow,”
lie said to the second, and his voice
held a note of triumph. “You tell him
that Gregor Campbell when he wants help
will fly his Jack upside down, but that till
then he’s boss of his own ship!”
There was a little smile playing about
his lips as he watched the boat make hack
to the liner’s side, and the second climb
the ladder to make: his report. But five
minutes later, when he saw another figure
make its way into the waiting boat, the
smile changed to a frown, and he watched
tin; approaching boat with hostile eyes. Even
when the newcomer waved to him he made
no response, but stood impassive on the
bridge, and made no move as the liner’s
captain, came aboard.
‘•Gregor, what the devil’s the game?
Campbell shook his head.
“There’s no game, Harry.” The two had
once sailed on the same boat—-the Austral
Spray, in fact —until Henry Winter had
transferred to another line, and got his
own command. “There’s no game, Harry.
I'm just staying aboard, that’s all.”
For a moment he was tempted to go
further, and tell this fellow-captain more
of his feelings, but he resisted the impulse,
and stood silent, waiting for the other to
speak.
Suddenly the liner’s captain chuckled.
“I suppose I’ve got to claim you, Greg.
I'm justified, you know —you’re out of con-
trol. A nice little bit of salvage for me!
Not a long tow either. I suppose you know
where you are?” he added curiously.
Gregor shook his head.
“Not the vaguest,” he answered briefly,
in a tone that told the other that he did
not particularly care. “It’s six days since
they abandoned her.”
Again he had the desire to confide further,
and this time he yielded to the. impulse.
The other heard him out in silence and then
nodded.
“Of course, I’d heard about the Austral
Spray,” he said. “There’s not a man that
knows you that doesn’t know, too, that you
got the thick end of the stick.... And now”
—he slapped the other on the shoulder—
“by Gosh, there’ll be some headlines when
this comes out! What a come-back! A
salvage job all on your own! I’m going to
send ,\ ou across a salvage crew! And put
you in command. Lord, man. six days
alone! And your judgment right! Stick-
ing to the ship!” He broke off with a
chortle. “You won’t have to look long for
a job when I tell that story, Greg! If my
owners don’t want to sign you on ten
minutes after reading ray log I’ll eat my
binnacle!"
H,e chuckled as lie saw the look on Gregor
Ca,nipbell’s face. Then, abruptly, he held
out his hand.
“Good-bye, Greg! I must get back. I’ll
send the crew aud the hawser straight
away!”
He disappeared over the side, and a
moment later waved to Campbell from the
stern of the boat as it made back towards
the liner.
Campbell answei’ed the salute mechani-
cally. His brain was grappling with a
problem that was, at the moment, just a
little too overwhelming.
“The Lord giveth, and the I/ord taketh
away,” he said softly, llis hand caressed
the rail of the bridge, and liis eyes strayed
back to the liner. “But the sea taketh
away, and the sea giveth.”
Turner of First Furrows.
Turner of first furrows,
There is no other way
But to mingle your tears with the sowing,
Your blood and your sweat with the clay!
Without them your effort is wasted,
Labor for a still-birth;
You must break your soul and your body
Who furrow the virgin earth.
Your bauds will be all misshapen,
Your visionary eyes be blind
In fee for the strength of the dreaming
You essayed for your kind—
Of furrows deeper, straighter,
Red as your blood with corn;
Of acres broader, fairer;
Of children yet unborn ;
i
Of earth all gold with harvest;
The firm, upspringing tread
Of future generations,
To whom your corn is bread.
Turner of first furrows,
There is no other way
But to mingle your tears with the sowing,
Your blood and your sweat with the clay.
Then is your effort pregnant
With the Eternal Birth,
And your plough is the key to the ages
And the treasury of earth.
QUEENSLAND.
LLYWELYN LUCAS.
After the Rain.
On the grey mountains of the sky—
The shining silver summit-lines
Show where the winged Sun-creatures lie —
Lie the Snow-maids above the pines.
White the Snow-maids as human death,
Yet live as the white heart of heat;
The air, bespangled by their breath,
Folds wings about their diamond feet.
And all the Southern city’s towers,
Tawny as lions of the North,
Revive like dripping mineral flowers;
And like a dark-green velvet cloth
Glows the long carpet of the park.
O life, you have a burnished brow !
There is no death! There is no dark!
Only the stainless sun of Now.
All the Sun-creatures, flight on flight,
Are loosed like arrows, and in vain
The grey hills stand ; we know their might
To be but vapor after rain.
After the rain the sap runs red,
After the travail comes the birth :
The martyr, from his smouldering bed.
Sees roses flame above the earth.
After the rain, O life! Life! Life —
Behind the winter and the spring,
Behind the sceptre and the knife,
Behind the dipt and lifted wing!
N.S.W.
DULCIE DEAMER.
Dedication.
What do you know of life, giving it up,
Shutting yourself in song?
A child at your heels is better
Though it tire you long.
What do you know of joy? Little enough.
Almost nothing at all.
You know* it but as a bird’s flash
On a shadowed wall.
“Oh some.” she cried, “can wive, bearing a
child,
And still sing on, it seems.
I hold m.v hand from an owned clasp.
And my clan are dreams.
“What do I know of life? More than you
guess;
Even its holy core.
My heart is a flowering tree
With no thatch or door.
“What do I know of joy? I cannot tell.
I cannot even sing.
The sweetest sound might be my loss,
It is a secret thing.”
MAORILANO.
EILEEN DUGGAN.
Immomeena.[?]
Here on the terraced grass am I
Looking downward into the sky.
When a bird goes by.
Arrowy straight on its viewless track.
I see the sun on its burnished back.
Over the sea faint hills are blue—
The sea is still as a lake of dew;
And a cloud or two
Take gold from the slanting of the sun
As the crickets are waking, one by one.
Home on the hilltop we deem fair,
Par do your bright-eyed windows stare,
Through purple air,
Across the slopes of fern and heath'
And gum-trees framing the bay beneath.
Surely the Good Ones sojourn here
Where nestling roses cluster near;
But the wind comes clear,
Wildly clear, from the ocean’s mouth,
With pearl-white dreams of the mighty
South :
VICTORIA.
ELSIE COLE.
♦Among various Australian tribes, Immomeena was
the Place of Friendly Spirits.


i&op&P*
WESTI N G HOUSE
Morse Siient Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
\Vrite for particulars
and Booklet BM 414
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—ilonAlKs iK t'UtUCM, Brisbane, ('nvrni)lt M C U|n rt
N.Z. Olfiee—UB-107 Featherston Street, Wellington l/IWtiUKU VV E.M , it. 0. It ALDO
Victorian Olllee—“Chancery House,” 185 liourke Street, Melbourne
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., I/Tl>.. Adelaide. 9.A
For Any Advertising Campaign in
Queensland Let Your First Choice Be
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
and its companion journal, “The Sunday Mail,”
Queensland’s big weekly newspaper and magazine.
“The Daily Mail” is the big morning paper with a
greater nett circulation than any other daily in the
State.
“The Sunday Mail” covers in one day the entire
metropolitan circulation of Brisbane’s four dailies.
For advertising rates and other particulars, please apply to
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-294 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE, Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
What is needed more than anything else in
Newspaper advertising is “QUALITY.” It is
far better to use one OtJTSTANDING medium
which holds the confidence of- its readers than
to advertise in several mediocre ones.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“THE AGE”
has exerted an influence in the affairs and
development of Victoria. Its present powerful
position has been gained by its literary worth,
which appeals to an intelligent public, and
hy its accurate and complete news service".
These factors have a direct bearing upon its
value as an advertising medium and cannot he
disregarded by' the advertiser who desires to
obtain the best value for his advertising and
expenditure.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation,
123,533.
Rates on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Cbe Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE A DVERTISER” map be
obtained at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price 1 id.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, 133 a Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALh, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.-
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
IF YOU DESIRE
TO REACH THE
TASMANIAN
BUYING PUBLIC
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
should carry your message.
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town and
Country—this Popular Weekly goes regularly
into the homes of the people, and each
issue is eagerly read by men, women and
children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest, with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class Action.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays. Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYLNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 223
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: ‘Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
Ufsd tight! Head tight!
StmdtigkldM tight!
with those who take
fadum*
r*NY k *V
<2? 1
c r- _ •• -»«?
pm
Worth a
Guinea
a Box.
V •
Vol. 5.
TUESDAY, AUGUST 20, 1929.
fd
THIS WEEK’S FREE PATTERN
(See page 64)
64 Pages
of
Reading for the Home
STORIES, VERSE, SPECIAL
ARTICLES
Fashions, Needlework
Health, Household,
Books, etc.
Published by
fiffiuUeUrt
ď
Over 160,000 Copies Sold Every Week
1
'TK
0°
, o 0 *»>*
s e*>* e ....
.tf® . e\* 9 ••••" ~••-■■
* v ** -••••'
‘rf£
**•
.* >V,^3., V^vV-'
Wi ’ *


o=2
m
* t
VA«V
c=-
arr.
'4
OS7A
7
J
Let the car itself ..
.. demonstrate
its true merit
oe<§sofor
%.u
5R
2 2
De Soto’s most successful salesman
is De Soto Six itself. Ride in it and
you will realize that here is a remark-
able performer —in its price-class the
easiest riding car ever built.
Try De Soto Six yourself. Drive it
in traffic. Take it over the roughest
roads. Pick out the steepest, trick-
iest hills. Idle. Loaf. Speed in
high. Speed in second. Swing it
around the turns. Discover for your-
self that the performance of De Soto
at any speed, in any gear, in any
place is nothing short of amazing.
Enjoy the unrivalled safety of De
Soto’s four - wheel weather - proof
hydraulic brakes. Examine every
detail of structure and finish.
You are sure to agree with all who
give De Soto Six a thorough and
impartial trial that it is to be com-
pared only with more expensive cars.
De Soto Six
PRODUCT of CHRYSLER
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales - * Grenville Motors Ltd., Sydney
Victoria * Automobiles Proprietary Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland - - Stratibroke Motors Ltd., Brisbane
South Australia - - Dominion Motors Ltd., Adelaide
Western Australia - - - Wentworth Motors Ltd., Perth
New Zealand - - New Zealand Motors Ltd., Wellington
Tasmania ■ Metro Motors Pty. Ltd., Hobart
