

1 )
mw ■
Sfe;
1
m
m
:
ms
mm
ass
m
m
m
- —'
f° r .
Snap^-
Springtime pictures
are the best of the
year—and you’ll
make the most of
your opportunities if
you treat yourself to
a Series 11.
Po
c het
_ Ocf
pe
No. 1 —Size of picture, 2\ x3\ in. Price, £3/10/-
No. la—Size of picture , 2} x 4\ in. Price, £3/17/6
Also available with higher-grade lens and shutter equipment
at a slight increase in price.
Of all Kodak Dealers and
Kodak
(Australasia) Pty., Ltd.
379 George Street, and 108 Market
Street, Sydney.
“The Block,” 284 Collins Street, and
161 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
250-52 Queen Street, Brisbane.
45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
662 Hay Street, Perth.
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
Flinders Street, Townsville.
East Street, Rockhampton.
294 i Lambton'Quay, N.Z.
As you open one of these cleverly-designed
Kodaks you’ll find that the lens automatically
springs into snapshot position—an ingenious
idea that will catch many a picture for you that
another camera would miss.
TWO MODELS TO
SELECT FROM.
4
Wh
> t
m
*
V-
L.nJ
*i
T sM,
K \
f /
’
I
The Bulletin
WHxL if&vf wv SlamJ
Vol SO.-No. 2587,
Wednesday, September 11, 1929,
Price 6d*
Registered at the general Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Kewspaper.


■ CtJy I
is Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence Colleae
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Fret
Booklet, explaining how to Write tor Profit a
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. 1
My Name
My Address
s.b.
If any illustration in The Bulletin 'takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original
THE 1929 LIBRARY CATALOGUE is
, no * aTul be forwarded post
free, with full terms and „ particulars on
application to ’
DYMOCIv’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD
424-426 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
“What will you take,” the butler said
‘Sir Henry? Here is port and hock,’
Chabhs and sherry, and some red
Wine of the famous ’7O stock.”
Sir Henry’s voice was hoarse and sad,
No, no, .John! None of those, I’m sure
I wish no wine that’s white or red
Please give me Woods’ (Jreat* Peppermint Cure.'
O-YSAGHT
ORB
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE-
vs
HW 3
Winner Last Year
J. R. Jeffrey, N.S.W.
This may be your
Lucky Year !
DON’T DELAY
Buy your
TICKET
To-day
dasdfs
r
fl
śdsdf
2 ND £4©O
c 197 OtkenPrczed
0
Drawn 16th NOV., 1929
Tickets I/- obtainable
, from Local Agent
direct from
.W. YAGER, MIC
Secretary,
T rades Halt
Sydney
i
“The Examiner”
Tasmania s Oldest Daily Newspaper. Established 1842.
the family paper
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has the
nest Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest
verseas, Interstate and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
Tasmania’s Best
Illustrated Weekly is the
“Weekly
Courier”
Published
Every
Wednesday
asdf
the" VENUS
plans the World
I he first rough suggestion—the skilful
and accurate working out, the sharp
detailed drawings, all the preliminary
planning necessary to the carrying out of
tonstructiye effort, call for the use of VENUS
PENCILS. Whether it be for the building of a
battle-ship or the design of a simple household
the pencil is the first requirement: the
VENUS the first pencil.
17 B each ie !/<) D nS, b r ß ' 9 v sd ' e ? ch '^ /9 d ° zen - Super Copying (Medium & Hard) 6d.
each - a/9 per dozen. Venus Copying (Medium & Hard) 4d. each - 3/9 per dozen.
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC AND PROPHYLACTIC.
For COUGHS! COLDS! INFLUENZA!
:;s«
riH
»
LOr
HARMFUL THROAT TABLETS.
Throat Tablets and Lozenges containing Formalin
(Formaldehyde) are harmful. Wiley, of the United
States, investigated the effects of small doses of
Formalin (Formaldehyde) given with milk on 12
men during 15 days. Burning in the throat, itching
rash and loss of body weight were observed.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
contain no Formalin, Cocaine or other harmful or
poisonous drug.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6: or forward 1/6 in stamp*
to the Manufacturers, Hudson’s Eumenthol Chetmc*!
Co., Ltd,, Sydney.
The Red Page
Low in Fleet-street
i David Low occupies a position which is
without parallel in literary and artistic
London. He is everything that no one in
his line of business has been before. Phil
May, who also burst on England by way of
The Bulletin, enjoyed equal renown, but
his public’s admiration contained a lavish
admixture of pity. He was the tragic victim
of his weaknesses and of the spongers who
fasten on stricken genius. Long before he
died London was littered with sketches and
caricatures given in payment for a meal
or a drink, for himself or for others.
No one has occasion to pity Low. He is
supremely fitted to look after himself. There
have been few artists, if any, with a better
capacity for standing up to men who have
made their fortunes by shrewd bargaining
and beating
them at their
own game. He
does three car-
toons a week
for the Even-
ing Standard
(the Bpaver-
brook paper
which, with
the help o f
Dean Inge,
Arnold Bennett,
Low, and a
great editor, is
rapidly over-
hauling Lord
Roth ermere’s
Evening
News), and he
is paid between
£3OOO and £4OOO
a year for them.
Shaw.
Before signing this contract he stipulated
tnat he should not be asked to join in
propaganda which conflicted with his poli-
tical principles, and that he should have
the right to do outside work. He is a
.Left Wing Liberal, and has been a promi-
- *»ent member of the National Liberal Club
for several years. Such a 'situation might
have presented difficulties to some men,
seeing that the Evening Standard is a
Ton.' organ. It did not worry Low. He
proceeded to deride in cartoons the states-
men who were being applauded in the
leaders and it soon became clear that the
public liked it.
They said in Fleet-street, when Low went
from the Star to his new job, that Lord
Beaverbrook wanted some of his friends in
the Carlton Club attacked, and that his
idea was to let the new cartoonist do it,
Belloc.
and explain
that the young
man from Syd-
ney was un-
controllable.
Whether this
was so or not
it is certain
that the pro-
prietor never
had to apolo-
gise for his
employee.
Most of the
C o nservative
c e 1 e b r i t ies
soon began to
take the view
that to be
T , ignored by
Low was worse than to be criticised
•Y “ lm - They offered themselves, as
willing ■victims, gave him sittings, and
neaped him in other ways. An explana-
”°i D 1S that Low—ever the business man
“ as been careful not to cheapen him-
seit. It is a distinction to be attacked by
as he takes no notice of nonentities
Ihe four famous men pictured on this
page (New .Statesman prints from Roy croft
Library, Sydney) are all radicals, friends
of he artist, and liable to be met any fine
afternoon during a walk from the Temple
to Charing Cross.
Shaw, clad entirely in brown Jaeger clothes
winch ht him nowhere, strides along, almost
always alone, a lean, upright six-footer with
a snowy beard and the clear, fine skin of
a woman. He
is the world’s
best advertise-
ment for vege-
tarianism and
teetotalism. He
lived for 30
years, until
about 18
months ago, in
an Adelphi
building, which
is an Adam
masterpiece, but
is still with-
out lifts or
modern baths.
Most of the
Adelphi
houses are to
be pulled
down short-
ly, so Shaw
moved into
a flat in
Chesterton.
Whitehall Court, a few hundred yards
further west. He said afterwards that he
thus experienced comfort for the first time
in 70-odd years.
Chesterton is an enormous, frowsy-look-
ing old gentleman who is depicted here
without the ancient black sombrero-like
felt hat which distinguishes him in
the street. Johnson must have walked
and looked like him and peered into
bookshops as he does. There is a small
one opposite the Law Courts in which he
almost lives while in London. His home is
m the country, but he seems to know every-
body on his London beat. Thr o<s men out
of four, irre-
spective of
class, will
greet him in
certain book-
shops and re-
stau r a u n t s,
which is where
he differs from
Shaw, whom
nobody greets.
Belloc, who
also lives in
the country,
frequents the
West End as
well as Fleet-
street. For
some strange
reason he be-
longs to a
young man’s
club which is
Lynd.
so fashionable that it is causing anxiety
to White’s itself. His stocky figure may
be seen stumping in and out of this gilded
resort at all hours of the day when he
is in town. Various explanations are given
—that he frequents the club because it has
the best cocktail bar in London; because
many of the members are Catholics; be-
cause H. G. Wells frequents his other club,
and so on.
One of the untidiest, simplest, cleverest,
and best-loved men in Fleet-street is the
essayist, Robert Lynd. He is an Ulsterman
(a nephew of Melbourne’s Rev. Larry Reri-
toul) and speaks his whimsical and brilliant
thoughts in a faint Belfast brogue. He is
one of Europe’s recognised arbiters of
literary taste, and with his remarkable wife,
Hugh Walpoie and Clemence Dane chooses
England’s “book of the month.” Golf is
almost the only thing he does not do
supremely well.
John Dalley.
A Splendid Bird Book
“Splendid” is not too enthusiastic an
adjective to apply to Alec H. Chisholm’s
>o u7 ; °, Australian bird lore, recently
published by Dents, with excellently re-
produced color plates by N. W. Cayley and
about fourscore photographs by the author
and others. The splendidness is not in the
authors style, nor yet in the production,
though both are very good; it is suggested
by the moving, rustling, quickening life
that startles up as the pages are turned.
1 here is something new and strange about
it. Here is a city dweller who resolutely
refuses to accept that Garden or any other
noisiness is the total population of Aus-
tralia but instead goes out from time to
time, fraternises with the feathered people
and with the humans who perennially live
near them, and from his observations makes
such a book as this—a book with scarcely
effort at fine writing, free of journalese
brimming with the beauty of contemporary
Australia. ‘
There is material here to form the basis
of many an “Aboriginally” discussion;
indeed, some of these curiosities of nature
*W e j ee ? wran g ]ed out in those columns
Why do bower-birds dance their rigadoons
and minuets? Is bird mimicry hereditary?
And so on. Also there are pages that sundry
of our muse-baiters might read with profit,
if not with the certainty of inspiration.’
J here is the name of the atom that lives in
and about the lawyer-vine of the Queens-
land jungles— half-robin! He is, you may
learn, “a link between the semi-terrestrial
yellow robin and the distinctly arboreal
rose robin.” //u//-robin! Atom of the jungle
darkness. To have met no more would
have made even a, dull book xvorth while l
Then there are these observations of two
other birds:— >
• • • -during, several years the nesting of this bird
fvith a th bo fl 111? e • Mount , ai l s known to coincide
th the flowering of the shy little horned orchids.
{Red Page continued on page 5.)


You can rely on "Truth in Advertising ” in all Anthony Horderns’ advertisements.
Anthony Horderns
offer a Fine Selection of
Hustle Fera Tufes
for Your Garden
An Aquarium is always delightful!
An Aquarium, with glittering Goldfish flashing here and there,
lends an air of distinction to your Greenhouse, and will keep
the kiddies happy for many rapturous hours. Made oi strong
glass, with oxidised brass rims, in the following sizes.
Size, 14 x 91 x 9-1 inches. Price
Size, 18 x 101 x 9 inches. Price '*/-
Size, 18x12 xl2 inches. Price
Size, 24 x 13 x 12 inches. Price IZ7 L
Rustic Log Troughs
Reinforced concrete, artistically moulded
into a realistic log, makes an ideal trough
for growing ferns or gay shrubs and
plants in odd nooks of your garden where
the soil is insufficiently deep for flower
beds!
No. 10. Length. 1 Sin.; width, 7in.
Price, each
No. 9. Length, 26in.; width, 12in.
Price, each
No. 4. Length, 39in.; width, 1 3in.
Price, each
33/6
Artistic Fern Tubs
Strong, reinforced Concrete
makes these charming Rustic
Tubs, which have the appear-
ance of being a hollowed
section of a log, Mounted on
short, strong legs, they make a
delightful ornament for your
garden.
No. !.. Height, I 7in.; diameter, I ! in.
Price 22/6
No. 2. Height, I 9in.; diameter, Min.
Price 2S/6
No, 3. Height, 22in.; diameter, I 7in.
Price 267-
No. 4. Height, 25in.; diameter, Min.
Price 33/6
. ; i
.. 1
1
asd
asdf
Make your window gay and-'
fragrant with a box for the sill
where your favorite plants can
brighten the view! Well
designed and artistically
finished, these sill boxes of
reinforced concrete will be a
real addition to the beauty of
your home. Size, 18 x 10
inches.
Price, each
25/6
Bread Crocks
A good, solid Bread Crock, of Bristol
earthenware, is a necessity in every
household. Wc quote below sizes to
suit every family.
Capacity, 1 gallon. Price, ea., 3/9
Capacity, 2 gallons. Price, ea., 6/9
Capacity, 3 gallons. Price, ea., 10/-
Capacity, 4 gallons. Price, ea., 12/6
Capacity, 5 gallons. Price, ea., 16/6
Capacity, *6 gallons. Price, ea., 19/6
Capacity, 8 gallons. Price, ea., 30/-
Capacity, 10 gallons. Price, ea., 37/-
Capacity, 1 2 gallons. Price, ea., 44/-
-
•f.
We carefully pack all the above good., which may be obtamed in our Crockery Department,
Third Floor. Carriage paid City Suburbs only.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.Q.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
’Phone: M 2401,
Day and NighU


He Says —
HOW EFFICIENT
r-Ufid
£
n:
She Says —
HOW CHIC
*"M""HE appeal of the Nash 4< 400” is to those with an intuitive
■ regard for that which is inherently smart and correct . . .
Here is refinement without affectations long, low-swung classic
lines devoid of unnecessary ornament; colour to delight the
most critical; upholstery that is luxury!
With beauty, Nash engineers have combined mechanical fea-
tures usually associated with cars that cost much more. Twin
ignition engines add power, save fuel, give greater, smoother
performance. Centralized chassis lubrication oils 21 vital chassis
points at one touch. Outboard mounted hydraulic shock ab-
sorbers level and cushion every road. A new steering mechanism
affords the world’s easiest driving control.
There are no “extras” to buy. Everything from bumpers
to tyre locks is included in the moderate price •
TOURERS.
Standard Six from . .
Special Six from
Advanced Six from., ~
.. £375
.. £4BO
.. £63o*
SEDANS.
£4so* (2 door) £47o* (4 door)
£565* (2 door) £sBo* (4 door)
£62o* (2 door) £635* (4 door)
Body.
Distributors for New South Wales:
WILLSFORD, LTD., ;
132-134 Phillip Street*
SYDNEY.
’Phones: 8W2291 (S lines).
Distributors for Victoria and Tasmania
RICKARDS BROS. PTY., LTD.,
567-573 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE, Cl.
'Phone: F 3114.
Distributors for Queensland and Northern Rivers:
PEELS, LTD.,
407-431 Stanley Street, < . :
SOUTH BRISBANE.
’Phone: J 1561.
Distributors for South Australia and Broken Hill:
AUTOCARS, LTD.,
58-72 Flinders Street,
ADELAIDE.
'Phone: Central 5500.
Distributors for West Australia:
ERIC MADDREN MOTORS, LTD.,
996 Hay Street,
PERTH.
’Phones: 85610, 87634.
TASMANIAN DEALERS:
THE SERVICE CO. OF TASMANIA, 56 Paterson Street, Launceston.
E. MEERMANN, 135 Bathurst Street, Hobart.
BENNETT & GILBERT, Best Street, Devonport.
f2»-8?0
m
%
NASH mo
5£
7l


For Any Travel
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
In co-operation with
WAGONS-UTS CO.
1
PASSAGES
By all lines, all routes, all classes,
at bedrock fares. No booking fees.
TO EUROPE 1930
As berthing plans for all steamers
are open, BOOK. NOW to ensure
comfort on the voyage.
ESCORTED EUROPEAN TOURS
We offer choice of a dozen different
tours leaving Australia in February,
March and April, at fares to suit ail
purses. Apply for special pro-
gramme.
WINTER TOURS
To Queensland, Java, Siam, Japan,
Hawaii, California, Indo-China,
Ceylon, etc.
TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES
A boon to travellers, safe, conveni-
ent, good everywhere. Apply for
particulars.
SAILING LISTS
Programmes and all information
post free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE: 269 Collins Street.
SYDNEY: Martin Place.
ADELAIDE: 49 Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE: Adelaide Street.
PERTH: Forrest Place, opp. G.P.O.
AUCKLAND: Queen Street.
WELLINGTON: Corner Hunter and
Featherston Streets.
Pterosiylis rc.flexa. In one year, for instance, th
orchids hloomed in May and June, and the niicis
nested then ; and in the following year the time
with both was July and August. I do not donut
that the parallel holds good with consistency, just
as it is said to dp with the lyre-bird and the sassa-
fras in Victoria. ' When you see the first flower on
a sassafras-tree, a keen observer tells us, then you
may look with confidence for your first lyre-bird s
nest.
From the charming affinity suggested there
it is part of the book’s atmosphere that you
can move swiftly to such an other-world
situation as that in which (he author and
“Beachcomber” Banfield can be seen in the
swiftlets’ eerie cave on Dunk Island:—
....to have soft-eyed, soft-plumaged fairies fly
against one’s face, under the arms and between the
legs. They perched momentarily on our shoulders;
they even clung to our lips.
They even clung to our lips! That is how
it goes—small points of observation that
bring so much of the Bush indirectly to
life. The humor of the Bush is here, too,
in places—in mention of the tame bustard
among whose accomplishments is numbered
the fact that he bites parsons; in the very
generosity of the Bush folk towards the
author, all of them anxious to disclose bird
news :-
“There’s a brolga’s nest down by the old dam.”
“I saw a good bower-bird’s playground yesterday.
Turn off at No. 6 paddock, and make f0r”....
“Would you like to see a pigeon’s nest?”
So it went on. Maybe there would come a tele-
phone call from a neighboring station, many miles
away, announcing the advent of a “new” bird or
exulting mildly over the discovery of a rare nest.
Responding to one of these calls we went to a station
some 30 miles from Alice Downs, and there found
a venerable pastoralist, a man whose acres and sheep
attained- large figures, raptly interested in a bird
scarcely, more than three inches long which had
made a dainty nest in one of his lemon-trees.
There is a good deal of the Bush there, for
those who can see it; just as there is a good
picture of the author where, equipped for
the Bush, he is asked by a brother-journalist
where he is going:—
“A bit north of Bundaberg—2so miles—back
in three days.”
“What’s up there?”
“Going to see a parrot.”
“What are you going to do with it?”
“Just look at it.”
Including those last couple of passages in
a short review is not over-emphasising the
humanness of the book; that quality
remains with the author throughout—indeed,
it differentiates him from the average
enthusiast. He is an enthusiast, as he would
need to be to do what he has done, but he
is an enthusiast with that difference—he
stays human. And, which is even more im-
portant, tiis birds stay birds. If some of
them resemble Ariel that is not the author’s
fault—or virtue. A splendid book!
CECIL MANN.
Oikophobia
The Australian expatriates of whom
John Dailey writes (lI.P. 24/7/’29) do pro-
bably suffer, definitely or indefinitely, from
dread-of-going-home. In the particularised
case of Australians a possible contributory
cause seems worth suggesting. All phobias
or dreads imply a local laziness, as it were,
in the personality; and the European
sociological pattern encourages or at least
condones this special form of laziness. “In
dull French or Italian towns” a static native
poverty has made the servant-problem a
joke—even the “more or less indigent” can
command skilled service and cooking for
little more than the cost of the servants’
food. “In outer London or Paris suburbs”
this is still possible, though, of course, in
less degree. The correlated sociological
atmosphere is probably more important than
the facts. In Cirencester or Rouen or
Siena the centuries have made life a pat-
tern of coddling respect and service (or at
least lip-service) from one class to another,
very flattering and comfortable to any lazy
spot in the mind. The independent person,
however slightly so, can be sure that no
laborious, democratic reality will be exposed
to him; the towns have for too long made
most of their living out of its concealment.
European provincial life conspires to make
the unit a “person”; it is full of a smoothen-
ing courtesy, an elaboration designed, in
essence, to further the passing of money
or its equivalent from those who have it
to those who are or may be hungry. A
man or woman with the basic wage un-
earned can command more of the so-called
amenities than many an Australian pluto-
crat working at home.
In Australia these expatriates would be
forced, in their degree, to make instead of
merely to enjoy the made tradition. They
would be only units in their township or
suburb, doing at least their own work,
and not in any way coddled or elaborated
into the impression that they were any-
thing more. lake the rest of Australia they
would have to earn and make before they
could enjoy. Which is a harsh and un-
comfortably simple state of affairs for any
phobia, true or imagined, to tackle.
HILARY LOFTING.
A Sweep of Lute-strings
The first striking thing about Frederick
T. Macartney’s A Sweep of Lutestrings is
the book itself, made at. the Galleon Press.
Canterbury, Victoria, for private circula-
tion. It is not ambitious, merely a slender
binding of five doubled sheets of white
paper in boards covered with cream cloth
and a sky-blue paper title plate, but it is
so pleasing to look at and its beauty is
so much in harmony with the contents
that the Galleon Press might be said not
to have made a book so much as added a
poem in fresh color and straight design.
Even in its rarity it has an appropriate-
ness, for the half-dozen brief poems it
holds hold in turn one of the rarest ele-
ments to be found in Australian verse, or
to be found in masculine verse anywhere
at, the moment —outspoken amourousness.
The Browning title, and even more the
line that it comes from,
A sweep of lute-strings, laugh, and whifts of song,
is a perfect key to the verses, which are
really only one verse in varied metre, since
a single theme runs through, from the first,
sophisticated finding upon love—
You’ll know love when it has taken
Body and soul and left both shaken —
through the description of the love-making
with white hibiscus and Marcus Aurelius
on a Northern beach, to the last sweep on
the strings—the beautiful lute-song which
has already been sung in The Bulletin,
and which ends the tale: —
I belong to nowhere—
Where do you belong?
Once 1 loved a lady
And put her in a song.
First we loved with laughter,
Then we loved with tears;
And that’s the way a life goes—
Oh, the years, the years!
I’m for sun and sea-light.
Do you seek them, too?
If there’s azure ever,
Then her eyes were blue.
Say there’s precious glinting,
So her hair w’as gold,
Free the captive future,
For it’s old now, old!
Love’s a pretty poison.
Have you known it fail?
She and'l are ghosts now,
Haunting an old tale,
Proud as thwarted marble,
Meek as mignonette.
Only the gods are happy:
Only gods forget!
That is aftermath. The amour is described
with even surer touches—so sure that the
setting and the players of the comedy come
visibly to life:— ’
Sun and wind on the cliff above
Came to the edge but feared to leap.
Tile bav, madonna of drowj-iyt love,
With the beach for halo, held time asleep.
Pale cups, poppies of white moon-burned,
Out of the big hibiscus trees,
Touched the water and lay upturned,
Drifting slowly to further seas.
Eye met eye and a challenge drew;
Laughed one splash as we both plunged in,
Raced for the furthest and found it two,
Both of us reaching at once to win.
Side by side on the clean, cool sand
The rescued flowers looked blanched with pain,
Except where she touched with a pointing hand
The rosy depth of the central stain:
“What a drunkard is that old wind,
Breaking such lovely goblets off
Just where the bowl to the stem is thinned,
Leaving the dregs lie scorns to quaff!”
Her breath still quick and her color high
With happy effort, it seemed amiss
To let the littlest joy go by,
Though it prove me the satyr that each man is:
“The gods with whom love’s hazard rests
This once forgive me a reasoned sin!
These are the moulds of your waxen breasts;
Let us try if they still fit in.”
Up she leaped, and her eyes withstood
The mirth I made of her mock disdain;
And I laughed not less for a rival’s good
As she gave herself to the sea again.
It. is only, as it is described, a sweep of
lute-strings, but the size of an orchestra
has often been troubled for the making of
far less music.
A Satchel of Books
Uncle Bernae , by Arthur Conan Doyle
(Murray). The well-known Napoleonic
romance reprinted in Murray's. 2s. Fiction
Library,
The Davidson Case, by John Rhode (Geof-
frey Bios), is a detective yarn in this experi-
enced horror-merchant’s best manner. No
more ingenious murder than that of the
hero’s undesirable cousin has been perpe-
trated in the gory annals of sensational
fiction.
The Crater of Mars, by Ferdinand Tushy
(Heinemann). First an official war cor-
respondent and then an intelligence officer,
the author visited all fronts, and came to
know what was going on behind most of
them. ITe succumbed to the temptation to
make his yarn go with a bang, but the book,
full of incident, gives a fair picture of a
journalists’ war.
Ultimate Principles of Pianoforte Teach
inr/ and Playing, by Mary Cochran (W. 11.
Paling). Another sincere book by the teacher
whose work at the Sydney Conservatorium
of Music has attracted widespread attention.
This latest volume, inscribed to Henri Tor-
brugghen, is designed to help advanced piano-
forte students and young teachers; it is
“introduced” by Professor 11. T. Lovell, of
Sydney University.
The Silent Cities, by Sidney C. Hurst
(Methuen). In a way this strange book
caps without intent all the deliberately-
planned indictments of war now pouring from
the publishers. It is an elaborately-illus-
trated "guide to the war cemeteries and
.memorials to the ‘missing’ in France and
Flanders.” Three hundred and fifty-odd
large pages with three or more photographic
reproductions of groups of tombstones to the
page—-it is a cold, an icy commentary. As
far as the planned work of its compiler goes,
his thoroughness is a lesson to guide-book
makers. The index alone is a complete guide
to “the silent cities.”
Adepts in Self-Portraiture, by Stefan
Zweig (Allen and Unwin; Robertson and
Mullens). Casanova, Stendhal and Tolstoy,
three men who either wrote voluminously
about themselves'or put themselves into their
books, are here brilliantly contrasted. Casa-
nova’s self-portrait, maintains the writer, is
on the lowest level. It is a simple record
of performances, mainly sexual, with no
attempt to bring them into relation with any-
thing. Stendhal’s is higher, more subtle.
He seeks in himself the motives which moved
him to his various actions. Tolstoy’s is the
ethical religious picture. The’ tormented
creature tries to bring his primitive impulses
into some relationship with God. The 'Casa-
nova essay is the best. The chapter oiTTol-
stoy is largely an apology, and the Stendhal
is repetitious.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
M.H.: Much obliged. Already paragraphed.
Aug. 20 is right. .. .Jad: A noisy little 10t....
W.C.: Correct, but empty... .R.McK.: Ghosts
sent back to haunt you.. . .A.A.: A blurry
picture.. . .R.C.8.: That “cold, unseeing eye” is
the most used organ in literature.... Blackbird: No,
starling... .H.W.: Not enough ginger about your
cobber “81ue”... .T. 0.5.: Far too frail. ... L.J.G.:
Attempt to make poetry out of a longing to be
back where you used to be is rather overdone....
Monomark: “The Pavement Pirate” scuttled..,.
D.A.W.: Best guide to the kind of matter that’s
acceptable is the paper itself. Don’t fancy “The
Poverty Ball”... . E.L.: Too pale... .Princess E.:
Liked best “love, who has ceaselessly striven and
strived”.... Q.T.: “Marriage” declared null and
void.... J.O.S.V. Fails at the first test —it isn’t
verse... .R.N.H. : “Inspiration” is • what ,it lacks.
. ...Samoht: “Life’s volume turns her x pages.”
Apply for a patent... -Jil: Prosv... . H.M,: Fair
in places... ..T.M.: “To Age” might be all right if
Age were on trial for contempt of court or something.
....A. Watcher: Thought has our sympathy. Verse
p00r....L.W.P.R.: They don’t impress... .Budding
K.: The verse made straight for the basket; but
the P.S; perches triumphantly here: —
... .Content: Doesn’t ring true... .Damocles: Be
careful with that sword, or razor-blade, or what-
ever it i5....J.D.: “The Muster” fails to excite.
... .W.H.8.; Sincere enough ; but we can’t place it.
... .H.R.P.: The metre makes it monotonous... .Mary
Lou; Could have been better told in prose J.P.:
They strain too visibly... .Maene: The metre is
Moore, but not moorish... .R.N.C.: “The Call
to Inspiration” was unanswered.... Don Q.: “Mud”
is a suggestive title.... N.F.; “The Derelicts” have
been scrapped.... J.W.; Heavy going. .. .E.N.: Can’t
let the mates in....11ar1; Inked bitterness long
drawn out T. 0.: “Mussolini’s Nightmare” runs
on like spaghetti. .. .Sigs.: Turn it into a par....
A.T.A.; “The Swimmer” nearly scored a win....
M.S.; Four impressive lines: —
The great dark hills of lofty height
Their shadows cast upon the slopes,
And from the clouds a wondrous light
Its beauty flung abroad in ropes.
. ...S.L.: You don’t make “Lough Swilly” interest-
ing enough.... Duquesne; Not mature enough yet,
but much above average... .0.P.: Metre, where it is
metre, is monotonous; rhymes like pudden—sudden
are impossible; the dialect is about as real as
oyster soup and the,, narrative is weak. Otherwise,
ete....T.H.: Not without merit, but it fails to
convince... .W.H.8.: Struck an overstocked market.
....Peter Psmith: Try again; you can do better.
. ...P.8.V.: Might find a place elsewhere....
V. : Constructively not quite the thing....
D.W.; Sympathetically told, but subject-matter hack-
neyed .... T.A.W.: Can't associate romance with a
maiden named Mudaboolaboola. Evidence of research
all the same... .A.G.: No room to fly kites here....
.T.W.: A most discursive document....T.\Y.: It
isn’t a villanelle; it is a villainy... .Dal: Added to
the pyramid of 795 other spring pomes, .. .R.D.:
Two obstetric lines:—-
Galastic, meteoric night
Looms pregnant with a moon.
Sent the rest to the Medical Congress... .R.E.C.:
Gold-mounted pension awarded for idea that women’s
legs are more visible than they used to be....
D.. 1.5.: Scrapped.... Gay: One slab from your ode
to W.A.:—
You are one hundred years of age,
And in a hundred more or so,
With maturity and greater age,
We’re fearful lest you lay us low.
No matter what our fears are then,
The Commonwealth from Adelaide to Cairns,
With all the heartfelt faith of men,
Send now one wish: Many Happy Returns!
. ...R.0.P.; That beer needs more body. . . .N.0.T.:
Prophetic... .Janette: Juvenile in matter and style.
. ...H.W.; Nothing on the plate for the padre....
N.E.W.H.: Box of domestic chatter and chattels.
. . . .P. Gray: You say the episode occurred 20 years
ago. It’s certainly dead. . . .E.A.: Your sentimental
journey is watered by too many tears 1.R.5.:
Wild tragedy dished up with curses... .A.S.; Doctors
may differ as to remedies; never as to fees.... Too
Small: Rubbish! Leaving area out of the argument,
Australia (6,300,000) has more people than Greece
(6.220,000), Sweden (6,100,000), Portugal
(6,050.000), Bulgaria (5,550,000), Switzerland
(4,000,000), Finland (3,600,000), Denmark
(3,500,000), Norway (2,900,000), Lithuania
(2,300,000), Latvia (1,900,000) or Estonia
(1,150,000). Also it beats all the South and Central
American except Brazil (37,000,000),
Argentina (10,800,000) and Colombia (7,000,000).
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.A.C.: Prefer joke to drawing ; but it’s a rotten
joke... .L.W.N.: Promising; keep on trying....
J.S.; Nobody would abduct that harem girl
W. : Not at all bad; might be a market for it
elsewhere 1t.M.0.: Try drawing human beings.
.. . .K.F.: Saddening stuff. . . .A.E.W.: Where they’re
not scratchy they’re smudgy... .W.J.C.: Fell at the
first hurdle. . ..P.F.8.: At least you help the manu-
facturers of Bristol board and Indian ink.
. ...F.C.A.: Conversation between beerchewers
and Chinese unintelligible.. . .H.J.8.: Just a collec-
tion of crude sketches R.G.R.: Harsh linework,
and mirthless. ... D.M.K.; That saxophone player is
an old enemy.


sdf
a
a
mm
p|
\
■
HI
Si
■
V*
Q;
'
IF 1
..
w*m
V-.
■
SF ■"
H
**•-H
■
1
a i
K
■
a h
■1
m
188
111
■:
l®
m
k.
■ I
*
HR ■
m
n
INI 5
9


The Bulletin
Vol. 50.—N0. 2587.
September 11, 1929.
THE LEAGUE MEETS AGAIN.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
21 h George Street, Sydney; Box 252188.
Victoria: 11J/-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne,
Queensland: 21JJ Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westkalia: S 3 Barrack' Street, Perth.
London : 86 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Regent 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any addkess in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 !/s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
8 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 8 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: Woz., Id. United Kingdom■■ Jjoz. to 10oz., lid. ;
each additional 1,03., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., 'lid.
British. Possessions and U.S.A.: l,oz. or part thereof,
Id. Plsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
DAVID LOW IN FLEET STREET .. .. 2
A. H. CHISHOLM’S BIRD BOOK . . 2, 5
answers to correspondents . . .. 5
THE front-page cartoon, by leason .. 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
Page in Difficulties 8
PEACE AND POLITICS 8
THE MEDICINE MEN 8
High Cost of Lav/
By Hon. Daniel Levy, Speaker of N.S.W.
Leg. Assembly .. .. ~ .. 8
CONTEMPT OF COURT 9
V.D. IN THE NAVY, by a Naval Surgeon ” 9
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD . . . . .9
POLITICAL POINTS 10
POVERTY POINT 11
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 11
PERSONAL (with caricatures) .. .. ..13
SOCIETY (with drawings).. .. .. 14, 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. .. 10
MELBOURNE REPERTORY Hi
AN ENGLISH OPERA .. . . .. . . 16
‘‘WILD CAT” COLUMNS 18, 20
Holden’s .. .. .. 18
WINOHCOMBE CARSON’S 18
AUSTRALIAN KNITTING MILLS .. ..18
MILLAQUIN SUGAR 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) • .. 23, 25
Free Service Department • • .. 26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 32
ECONOMICAL FENCING 28
PICKLING WHEAT 28
IRRIGATING LUCERNE 28
SHEEP’S TEETH AND AGE 28
SMOKE-OH 34
PEN AND PICTURE 37
ART SHOWS 37
THE INKY WAY 37
SPOUTING (illustrated) .. .. ..39, 41, 42
Caulfield Races . • .. 39
CANTERBURY PARK 39
BUSINESS, ROBBERY 42
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 45
Medical Congress Parties .. 45
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 48
SPRING IN THE WINDOWS 48
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 50
“Paradise Plumes” . . . . 47, 51, 52
COMPLETE SHORT STORIES—
“THE PHISOLOPHERS,” by J. H. M.
Abbott .. .. .. . . 55, 57
“IN THE LAND OF THE LAMAS,” by S.
Stedman .. .. .. .. 57, 58
VERSE.—By R. Crawford, Duleie Deamer,
“Black Bonnet,” Norma L. Davis,
Kathleen Dalziel, Arnold Wall .. 52, 55, 58
Next Week.
“BLUFF,” a tale of New Guinea, introducing a
vivid description of a tidal wave—an actual experi-
ence —by Alys Brown.
“SINPYUGYI,” a story of elephant-hunting in
Upper Burmah, by C. R. E. Childers.
CRAZY CITY—WOULD IT PAY TO SCRAP
CANBERRA NOW? —By Randolph Bedford, member
of the Parliament of Queensland.
‘ffluTfyiilletz/fi
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1929.
WHY PAGE IS IN DIFFICULTIES
During the hectic time when it seemed that
the loan-fed Customs revenue would never
stop rising, Commonwealth Treasurer Page
visited the U.S.A. He wasn’t there more
than a few days, but he stayed long enough
to learn that the National Government was
subsidising a huge road-construction pro-
gramme; and straightway he decided that
his Government would do the same. A less
impulsive gentleman would have given some
attention to the circumstances of both
countries before coming to a decision. A
little inquiry and reflection would have
made it plain that America, enriched by
the war and by the annual tribute from its
allies and enemies, was much better able
than Australia to spend national money on
roads, and that such expenditure in the
Republic would assist great car-manufactur-
ing and oil-producing industries which the
Commonwealth does not possess; also that
American roads, with payment by results,
would cost a great deal less per mile than
uniform-wage, 44-hour-week highways in
Australia, and would hurt no State railways.
Treasurer Page was blind to such considera-
tions.
When the traveller returned he plunged
into the agreement which binds the Com-
monwealth to give the States £20,000,000,
spread over 10 years, for road construction
and maintenance while the State Govern-
ments find £15,000,000. His new taxation
is one of the consequences.
When the precious roads scheme became
effective, it ushered in the era of two-
million-pound Commonwealth deficits. The
States, for their part, have been hard put
to it to raise their share of the grandiose
expenditure, and the effect on their railway
finances has been disastrous. S. Aus.
Premier Butler says motor competition
was greatly to blame for the loss of
£1,182,000 on his State’s railways last year;
the N.S.W. Railway Commissioners say it
was largely responsible for their debit
balance of £1,839,000. And this competi-
tion has, of course, been tremendously
advantaged by the Federal-aid roads, the
planning and construction of which have
been handed over to irresponsible
bodies called Main Roads Boards, which
operate regardless of the plight of
the State railways and hang the expense!
The one in N.S.W. spent nearly £29,000
a mile on a 14-mile section of the new
road from Sydney to Newcastle. Admit-
tedly it was a difficult section, but £29,000
a mile! The full job is expected to cost
£2,000,000 of Federal and State money
from taxes and loans, and it will
inevitably take a lot more traffic from
the embarrassed State railway concern,
which is one of the few remaining
good customers for Newcastle coal. Besides
this criminally foolish subsidising of private
motor services there has been rank jobbery
in the expenditure of the Federal-aid funds.
For example, a Westralian select committee
found that large bodies of “workers” had
been transferred without equipment from
Perth to a doubtful country electorate to
make it safe for the sitting member.
And in order that Commonwealth money
may be lavished on roads for joy-riders and
motor-lorries competing with the Govern-
ment railways, there have been tragic
Defence cuts. In a miserable attempt to
justify this everlasting disgrace to his
Government the Treasurer pleads that “the
efficiency of the basic organisations will not
be impaired to any great extent”! On the
Federal road-aid folly he complacently
remarks that “the scheme is now operating
smoothly in all the States, and £10,500,000
has been allocated to specific roads.” If he
had a proper sense of his duty as the
nation’s Treasurer he would call the State
Premiers together and tell them to build
their own roads, as is constitutionally pro-
vided, with due regard to the critical situ-
ation of their railways. The Premiers would
doubtless utter hoarse cries and demand
concessions, in which case they should be
reminded that they have already protested
in conference against Bruce-Page butting
in. If the crazy agreement were cancelled
the Defence expenditure could be increased,
instead of being reduced, and the only new
taxes required would be the duty on films
and a tax on trippers going overseas, to-
gether with the restoration of the old tax
on entertainments, beginning at a penny on
a ninepenny ticket. The Bulletin holds
no brief for the moving-picture gentry, but
the 5 p.c. on their receipts and those of
other purveyors of amusements is un-
scientific and unfair.
PEACE AND POLITICS.
“We have to ask our military advisers to believe
that there is as much security in an agreement as
in a legion of soldiers or battleships.” —The British
Prime Minister at Geneva.
The Governor-General, at a Service dinner
last week, commenting on the MacDonald-
Hoover efforts to end war (“efforts which
have always been made after great wars”),
said drily:—
“In the past the machinery devised under
such auspices has been successful for varying
periods of time.”
The Federal Government is disbanding
regiments, selling and paying off R.A.N.
ships, sacking hundreds of highly-trained
sailors and neglecting the Air Force on the
assumption that anti-war machinery (which
has still to be devised) will be successful
for all time.
Yet the world has never had more racial
grievances and rivalries. Wilson Harris
wrote recently in London Westminster
Gazette
“Germany, which was assured specifically
in 1919 that she was being disarmed in order
to make it possible for the Allied Powers to
disarm too, has to-day a professional army
of 100,000 men. France has a professional
army of 235,000, to be increased to 372,000
by 1931.”
Alsace-Lorraine is torn betweeh Franco-
philes and pro-German Autonomists, and
Italy has created a similar state of affairs
in the Tyrol. In Europe’s chief war-belt
over 3,000,000 Hungarians by race and lan-
guage have been handed over to their
hereditary enemies (Jugo-Slavs, Czecho-
slovaks and Roumanians), and Hungary has
been deprived of its wood, salt and iron
supplies. Italy, with a growing population,
must, in Mussolini’s phrase, “expand or
burst.” The Italians want fertile Asia Minor,
which is now being misgoverned; and
unless a miracle happens they will fight
the Turks for it some day. No one believes
that the militarists of China and Russia
will refrain long from war on the grand
scale, or that Japan and other Powers will
keep out once the calamity starts in earnest.
There are plenty of war possibilities
even between Britain and the U.S.A. Lud-
well Denny, in “We Fight for Oil,” quotes
Admiral Plunkett as saying in defence of
the U.S.A.’s £160,000,000 naval programme:
“If I read history correctly this country
is nearer war than ever before, because its
commercial position places it in competition
with other great commercial nations.”
“Meaning,” says the author-, “Great
Britain.”
Human nature has not changed since
1914. It never changes. The only change
haa been in political values. Before the
war a British Government was defeated be-
cause it was proved to be short of the chief
explosive of the period. An Australian
Government was defeated because it was
suspected of coldness on the compulsory-
service issue and of hostility to an Aus-
tralian navy. There were votes in arma-
ments then, and the politicians gave the
electors what they wanted. Having experi-
enced war, or heard about it from those
who fought, the electors of to-day hate the
thought of it, and prefer to see the money
that used to be allocated to defence spent
on higher wages, fewer working hours and
more pensions, doles and endowments. And
the ever-obliging politicians are responding
in the usual manner.
Unfortunately, the Governments which do
not live by votes—that of Russia, for
example—will have nothing to do with
world-disarmament, and the subject races
which have grievances only want partial
disarmament for what they can get out of
it. As ex-Chancellor Churchill remarked
at Vancouver last week:—
“The outlook in Palestine is only a bloody
foretaste of what will happen in Egvpt and
India if Britain’s hand is withdrawn.”
The British made a politician’s experi-
ment on all fours with the one which is now
being advocated by time-serving vote-
hunters and short-sighted dreamers when
they gave the world a lead in fiscal paci-
fism. Australia, whose coastal cities, accord-
ing to a Medical Congress authority, could
be gassed by an enemy that held command
of the air and sea, is no more justified in
assuming that, if it disarms, the land-
hungry nations will follow suit than it
would be in assuming that its industrial
rivals (the U.S.A., for example), would be-
come Freetraders if it abandoned Protec-
tion, or that the colored races would stay
at home if it abandoned its laws against
alien immigration.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Bill to Scrap a Fifth Wheel.
Now that everything pertinent that can be
said has been said by opponents of the
proposal to withdraw the Federal Govern-
ment from the sphere of industrial arbitra-
tion, the case for evacuation looks even
stronger than it at first appeared. The only
point raised that commands any respect
is that Mr. Bruce is engineering a drastic
curtailment of Federal powers without a
mandate from the people; but as the people
have shown apprehension heretofore only
when it was proposed to extend those powers,
the technical omission isn’t of much prac-
tical importance. The impassioned defence
of the Federal Arbitration Court by Theo-
dore and other Laborites comes too pat
upon the heels of an impudent attack upon
the authority of that court to warrant any
sympathy, and the plea of the Westralian
Mann that the court is a bulwark against
Communism isn’t likely to appeal to a
community which knows the court to be
the Communists’ favorite cockshy.
Ever since Federal arbitration was insti-
tuted it has operated to magnify the powers
of the union boss and to embroil contented
workers in nation-wide strikes. The sea-
cooks, the wharf-lumpers and the timber-
workers, to mention only the most recent
instances, have demonstrated that a handful
of wild men in Sydney and Melbourne can
assume the control of big industrial federa-
tions and the right to disorganise the
industry of a continent.
Another feature has been the predilec-
tion of the federations for playing one set
of courts against the other. Even the
A.W.U., which declares itself a supporter
of the Federal court, went to a State
court in Queensland at the behest of its
shearer members. There were, at the latest
count, 1560 awards operating in Australia,
385 of which were Federal awards. Since
there has never been any attempt at a co-
ordination of principles between the various
State courts and the Federal court, the
striation of Federal and State awards has
been a prolific source of discontent and
friction among workers, and has brought the
executive heads of many large enterprises
to a stage at which their functions are
necessarily as much those of lawyer as of
manager.
The essential weakness of all Australian
arbitration systems is that they interpose
the lawyer, either as Judge or as advocate,
between employer and employed—the term
lawyer here includes those paid union
officials whose profession it is to “conduct”
disputes and “control” strikes. The bill to
repeal the Federal Arbitration Acts seeks
to reform that condition so far as the mari-
time industry is concerned by setting up
committees of employers and employees to
settle squabbles. These committees won’t
take evidence, but will confer. That is
sensible; but beyond and above the com-
mittees is a board of Judges and a court,
and these, apparently, will have a free leg
to continue the old game of capering round
the legal mulberry-bush. It will be left
to the court to apply penalties; and as it
is given no more power to enforce them
than resides in the Federal Arbitration
Court, its functions are of dubious value.
The repeal clause of the bill, which sweeps
in the useless and disrespected Industrial
Peace Acts, is admirably comprehensive and
straightforward. Whatever happens to the
rest of the proposals, this, if carried, will
put a crimp in the tails of professional
strikemongers.
The Medicine Men.
While the medical practitioner worth his
salt faces his patients with as near an imita-
tion of omniscience and infallibility as he
can compass, none knows half so well as
himself that he is sailing a sea in many parts
still as uncharted as it was in the days of
or Nicholas Culpepper. As Dr.
Sandes told the Medical Congress in Sydney
last week, there are occasions when the
medical or surgical research-worker is led in
his quest for causes to the sealed doors of
fundamental mysteries. Even the basic
assumptions upon which schools of medicine
have been founded have lost their place
amongst accepted verities, necessitating the
revision of the whole science from the
ground up. Yet astounding progress has
been made, and the president of the latest
Australasian Congress was able to assert
that if anyone wished to die of natural
causes in this year of grace he had not
nearly so large a range of diseases to rely
upon as his grandfather had.
Australia has indigenous as well as uni-
versal medical problems to solve, and these
have not been neglected by the congress.
The results of study of the effect of the
Northern climate on white folk have been
made available, and the belief of those who
assert, as -the result of experience, that
the conditions are not such as to inhibit
white colonisation has received scientific
endorsement. Progress has been reported
in the matter of vaccinal immunisation
against the bite of the copperhead and
tiger snakes. There are but few workers in
this field and they have many difficulties
to contend with, but they are on the way
to rendering very valuable service to their
country. Thus far they have not had
much success against the death-adder; but
in view of what has been done, success
there, too, seems certain.
In these as in larger spheres the congress
has served not only to spread knowledge
amongst its members, but to demonstrate
that the medical mind is alert, and that the
leaders at. any rate of the profession take
its great responsibilities very seriously.
. ♦
Protecting the Policy-holder.
As The Bulletin’s “Wild Cat” columns
indicated last week, the Federal Govern-
ment’s new Insurance Bill is generally satis-
factory. The main thing to be realised is
security for the long-distance policy-holder;
and most of the known safeguards are
applied.
It is the office established with the main
purpose of giving a man a job that has to
be watched most carefully. It does not by
any means follow that every such effort
should be frowned on; we should be with-
out some of the very best of our societies
if some few men had not seen the chance
of building a life job along with the life
office. But if the job is made the first
and practically only consideration, then
trouble is likely to ensue; and trouble can
rarely be worse than when it involves the
disappearance of the slender provision which
struggling people have managed to make
for their dependants.
In the Equity Court of N. S. Wales the
other day the promoter of an industrial
co. was shown to have made for himself
a job as managing director at a salary of
£lO,OOO a year; and not content with that
he had loaded the co. with heavy charges for
travelling expenses, etc. The co. soon came
to grief and was put into liquidation; and
the Court, at the instance of the liquida-
tors, ordered the promoter and managing
director to refund close upon £lOO,OOO— it
fixed the fair salary of the managing director
at £2OOO a year, and disallowed many other
charges. Had that been a life-assurance
office the thing could hardly have come to
a head in that quick way. The creditors of
an industrial concern want their money to-
day or to-morrow; the creditors of a new
insurance concern make practically no claims
for two or three years, and the majority
of them may not make claims for 20, 30,
perhaps 40 years. Obviously, therefore,
something extra in the way of checks is
called for where life offices are concerned.
One simple plan was adopted in the
U.S.A. when it proceeded to clean up its
insurance business 25 years ago. The new
law required every office transacting such
business to produce a schedule, to be
available to the public, showing every salary
and other payments made in excess of $5OOO
a year. A similar provision might be
adopted here with advantage.
♦
The High Cost of Law.
Dear Bulletin, —Twenty-six years ago the
N. S.-Wales Legislature passed the Com-
mercial Causes Act. It was not an origins
piece of work, but it was none the worse
for that. It is still on the Statute Book,
but, unfortunately, it appears to be almost
ignored. Though it was intended to appb
to commercial causes (as defined in the
Act) there is no reason why the sensib e
procedure provided for should not be made
to apply to all or most Common Law
actions.
The Act requires an application to a
Judge before an action can be entered as
a commercial cause. That being done, these
are some of the things which the Judge
may'' do in order to simplify, cheapen an
expedite the proceedings. He may {a) dis-
pense with pleadings; ( b ) dispense vi
technical rules of evidence for preventing
matters which are not bona fide in ,P U _
(such as handwriting, documents, the iden-
tity of parties, etc.); (c) require particu


CONDEMNED.
“The N.S.W. State Government has decided to scrap the whole system of State Arbitration, substituting Councils of Employers
and Employees to decide upon the conditions of industry."
PREMIER BAVIN: “The original design was all right, no doubt; but too many people have put patches and gadgets
of the cause of action or the grounds of
defence to be served within a specified
time by either party; (d) require either
party to make admissions on questions of
fact involved in the case; (e) settle the
issues for trial; (/) order the case- to be
tried without a jury, unless either party
demands a jury. Further, the parties may
agree that the decision of the Judge shall
be final: that is, that there shall be no
appeal to another court.
It is difficult to understand why this Act
has not been availed of by litigants in com-
mercial causes. From the passing of the
Act until the year 1921 not one applica-
tion was made to set a case down as a com-
mercial cause, and since then the number
has been insignificant. For example, in
1926, one (discontinued); 1927, one; 1928,
three (two of which were not set down for
trial). Yet in England the Commercial
Court has been, and is being, used with
conspicuous success. Two or three Judges
are taken for the work of that court.
Othello speaks of the base Indian who
“threw a pearl away richer than all his
tribe.” A genuine law-reformer may truly
build on the solid foundation of that simple
Act of 1903, which occupies only two pages
of our Statute Book.—Yours, etc., Daniel
Levy.
♦
Fritz’s Dost Property.
Australians might throw an eye on one
aspect of the Reparations Conference in
Paris. Cloaked by the discussion on the
merits of the Dawes and Young schemes,
the Germans pleaded for the return of
former Colonial possessions. But the cus-
tomary procedure was departed from. Claims
of maladministration were not insisted on.
For them has been substituted the conten-
tion that unless Germany gets some of its
colonies back to exploit, it cannot meet
even the Young scheme —the money cannot
be earned at home.
A disturbing aspect of Dr. Schnee’s
special pleading on behalf of the claim is
his insistent reference to statements oy
Philip Snowden, present Chancellor of the
Exchequer, whose triumph at the Young-
scheme conference has somewhat obscured
the attitude of himself and his party to-
wards the Dominions in general and the
Mandates in particular. Schnee quoted
from a magazine article by Snowden : “She
[Germany] cannot be regarded as disquali-
fied from exercising mandatory rights over
backward areas such as are enjoyed by
other members of the League.”
True, for our present comfort Dr. Schnee
adds: “We think only of African colonies—
w T e have no intention of asking for the
return of New Guinea, or any other colonies
in the South Seas.” But what will happen if
Germany still finds itself unable to wholly
meet the Young scheme? If the return of
some colonies helped there will be at any
rate a first-class excuse for pressing for
the return of the balance in order to com-
plete the good work.
Putting aside Japan’s position in the
Carolines, and forgetting for the moment
what Britain under a Labor Government
may do in the matter of its own mandates,
it may be worth remembering that Aus-
tralia, Maoriland and South Africa hold
their mandates under the terms of the
Treaty of Versailles and not by sufferance
of the League of Nations. It is therefore
possible that a Government sympathetic to
Germany may some day surrender Aus-
tralia’s mandatory rights. It is a contin-
gency which Australia, for commercial and
particularly for strategic reasons, must guard
against.
Contempt of Court.
When the S. M. Herald was fined £2OO
the other day for contempt of court, the
punishment fell upon one of the few papers
that offend very rarely and then not bla-
tantly and impudently. The blatant and
the impudent offence seems, however, to
be no offence at all, because nine times out
of ten it involves the glorification of police
or other officials and only prejudices the
fair trial of somebody of no social or
financial consequence.
What newspapers can do and what they
actually do in this connection has become
a scandal; and authority takes no notice
whatever. In the S. M. Herald case in
question it is almost impossible to believe
that authority would have taken any action;
certainly the" whole burden of the proceed-
ings fell upon men who are now under
committal on another charge, and it was
their counsel who conducted the prosecution.
So we come down to this: that the fair
trial of a hundred men of no social or
financial consequence may be safely pre-
judiced in a most impudent manner, and for
no other purpose than to sell a few more
papers; but let the fair trial of a man or
group of men of some social or. financial
consequence be prejudiced, even in a very
remote manner, and in pursuance of what
might reasonably be regarded as a public
duty, and the axe falls.
It is time fair trial was safeguarded. But
we shall not safeguard it by the present
methods; for those who are most in need
of protection are the least likely to get it.
Revising the N.S.W. Second Chamber.
The House of Lords, where it is not stulti-
fied by its archaic hereditary qualification,
is almost ideal as a reviewing Chamber.
Britain grants its successful men, its brainy
men, its "leaders in affairs, its generally out-
standing men a rank which carries with it
the right and duty to review popular legis-
lation. It may be rough-and-ready selection,
but at least it is logical to presume that a
man who can run well a great bank, army,
business or agricultural association, a great
church, union, entertainment enterprise or
newspaper, a great school, civil service, pro-
fession, university or sports club would have
some qualifications for running a State or
nation.
Closely related to this is the Mussolini
plan of creating a grand council from repre-
sentatives of syndics and corporations,
organisations and federations of elected
bodies.
Simple election of Councillors in the five
Australian States that practise this mode of
selection has not been any more conspicu-
ously successful than the N.S.W. rule of
selection wholly by nomination. Elected
Councillors are too often dear old chaps
who have made a hobby of sitting in Plush
Houses and whom an easy-going electorate
would hate to dismiss, or well-meaning
nonentities who reluctantly stand for the
Council because the job so pathetically goes
a-begging.
Sensitive men, and especially business
men, are loath to offer themselves to the
slings and arrows of election contests; many
find it below their dignity, others a waste
of time devoted to a “poor show” run by
a generally inferior company.
Something has to be counted for human
vanity, too. The biggest man likes to be
invited to be the saviour of his country;
the honor thus acquired is double that
attached to an honor that is self-sought,
even though it has to be endorsed by an
electorate. The nomination system pays
this tribute to a quite healthy and for-
givable vanity. It is evident that several
of the best men in the present N.S.W.
Council would not be there had they been
obliged to seek election to it.
Nevertheless, political patronage has to be
eliminated; the awful effects of that are to
be observed at any sitting of the N.S.W.
body. If the corporations system is not
feasible, selection or partial selection of
members (after the first originating nomi-
nees) by the Council itself might be tried.
And this reform should naturally produce
reform in Council procedure. Good men
who are busy men cannot be expected to
spend months of their year listening to
fussy speech-making. Directors of com-
panies do not make speeches at one another,
they talk business only, do business only
and then go about their business. The
revising directorate of the State should at
least be as business-like.
» ■
Slandering, Australia’s Tars.
Dear Bulletin,— Sydney picture-papers
must have their “sensations.” One of them
has come out with an article, heavily head-
lined, referring to the Royal Australian
Navy; it implied that venereal disease is
rife amongst the personnel, and not only
rife but uncontrolled and “a potent
menace” to the general community. This
is sensationalism at its worst.
With the very best reasons in the world
for knowing, let me say that the incidence
of venereal disease among men of the
R.A.N. is much less than it is among cor-
responding classes ashore. And so it should
be. From the day he joins the recruit
receives medical advice as to the risks of
infection, and, what is more important,
instruction in the best methods of prophy-
laxis, with every facility for carrying them
out. These lectures are delivered to him
periodically throughout his service career.
From time to time eveiy ship’s company is
mustered and medically examined, not only,
of course, from the point of view of detect-
ing V.D., but also from a general health
standpoint. In addition, every rating on
joining or leaving a ship has to pass a
doctor. r , i
Should a rating contract V.D. he has to
report to the sick bay immediately—con-
cealment is a serious offence. From the
time he commences his treatment until
his cure is complete his leave is stopped
and he is confined to his ship or depot. How
much supervision or segregation does the
average civilian undergo in similar circum-
stances? And who is the greater “menace,
the uncontrolled civilian or the disciplined
sailor?—Yours, etc.. C.atspvw.
♦
The “Misbehavior” of Immigrants.
One way and another Kipling can cause
a lot of trouble. Callow young Beau-
champ found that out 30 years ago when,
on his way to Sydney Government House,
he was reported to have wired to someone
a Kipling quotation in which the city was
reminded of its “birthstains.” Now the same
builder of patriotism and poetry has been
responsible for a violent outburst in which
the immigrants by the Orama figure.
The storm blew up just prior to the
steamer making Colombo. To this Ceylon
port were returning a number of Indian
students with whom certain “domestics”
had been amorously playful. Some well-
meaning jester clandestinely affixed on the
notice board Kipling’s “East is East and
West is West and never the twain
shall meet,” with a ribald addendum,
and the row started. Irrelevantly at a
sports committee meeting a young Indian
protested at the “slight” upon his country-
men. Passengers who had attached no
significance to the quotation now began
to fuss. A parson said it was a “dastardly
insult,” a “high Indian official” on board
intended to take it up with the Home Office
—and so on. The incident was capped by
a notice of regret from the ship. In Mel-
bourne, a Herald reporter interviewed a
Mrs. Ernest, 0.8. E., who blushed at the
behavior of some of the girls. Still more
virtuous and loquacious indignation ensued.
What Mrs. Ernest had seen she did not
even hint at. In reality there was very
little to hint at. At the worst there was a
little over-friendliness with the ship s service
staff. Mostly there was no more than frank
lovemaking. The -same occurs in every
ship, immigrant or passenger. The lovers
generally are, as they were in this case,
callow and unaffected.
It sums up into the obvious fact that in
one-class ships and in the third-class of
two-class ships, travellers largely are third-
dass—or lower. But there are a few of a
superior class who travel “third for financial
or other reasons. These keep aloof, or,
like gravitating to like, form “circles and
friendships which in many cases survive
the voyage. Though these travellers rarely
have occasion to complain of lack of
courtesy from their fellow-voyagers it is
from them that the charges of misbehavior
mostly come. In truth, _it is not mis-
behavior at all; it is only different behavior.
—
Sex Instruction.
“F.S.”: Dr. Maloney. M.P., has his own
ideas as to how sex information should be
imparted to the young. Recognising that
the average teacher has not mastered his
own inhibitions sufficiently to be able to
talk frankly and without embarrassment
to his pupils, the Little Doctor proposes
the use of gramophone records. These, he
suggests, should be passed by a competent
authority and distributed through the
Education Department to the schools, so
that every class would get the degree of
enlightenment to which its average age
entitled it.
The member for Melbourne has always
advocated a vigorous and standardised
system of sex instruction. His belief in
the need for it is based on his own experi-
ence. Before he became a politician he was
obstetrician at St. Mary’s Hospital, Lon-
don, and later acting house surgeon at
the London Lock Hospital.
♦-
John Chinaman as Judge.
When foreigners in China become sus-
ceptible to Chinese law they will be up
against a fundamental peculiarity of Celes-
tial psychology. criminal code
is up to date, but‘its interpretation by
native Judges is not.
It is a basic axiom of Chinese justice, as
it used to be. of all primitive codes, that
suffering must be paid for by suffering.
If a man cut off another’s ear, even by
accident, his own ear was removed, usually
far from gently. In the early contacts of
the Chinese with Europeans, if a Chinese
was killed in a sailors’ brawl a sailor—any
jailor—was demanded for the headman —and
was handed over, too, sometimes. Even the
gods had their rights in this regard. Any-
body who was so foolish as to rescue a
drowning man must expect to be drowneo
himself when the angry spirit of the river
saw his opportunity. '
Now that China is building roads and
importing motor-cars the problem takes
on a fresh and more serious aspect. In
many cases recently in Shanghai the Chinese
Judges have shown that they are com-
pletely swayed by the ancestral way of
thinking. In one case where a driver killed
a man he was compelled to pay compensa-
tion involving his entire salary for five
years, although there was no doubt what-
ever of his innocence.


}q
iLSH
MawhiKy
mwtm
■ m-
RED, WHITE and BLUE
WHISKY
Gaelic Special Reserve
DEARER BUT BETTER
ORME, KEIGWIN & CO., LTD.
269-271 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN AGENTS: JAMES HENTY & CO., 499 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: B. SEPPELT & SONS, LTD., 444 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
fcrvf
&Ik£LtQ
RES
POLITICAL
POINTS
With Hughes, Maxwell, Mann and Stew-
art against them, as well as the Labor party,
the Bruce-Pages were still four votes to the
good on the second reading of the Maritime
Industries 8i11—34 to 30. In point of dura-
tion the debate was an insensate business,
being prolonged to 46 hours exclusive of
adjournments for meals; but it served to
show that Bruce is at his best when under
fire. Towards the end he was the freshest
and most composed man in the House, and
he got home some stinging hits on Hughes
and Theodore.
In a wild and whirling attack on the
N. S. Wales Bavin-
s h a w Government,
Mark Antony David-
son, M.L.A. for Mur-
ray, accuses that meek
Administration of hav-
ing “suspended the
industrial tax, which
provided the funds for
family endowment, and
thereby deprived thou-
sands of mothers and
children of a substi-
tute for their [sic]
husbands’ wages.” The
crazy tax (£2 in the
£lOO of wages) was
taken off for a time,
but the substitute for
wages has been paid
all along. It is be-
cause of such taxa-
tion and such “substi-
tutes,” and of what
N.S.W.’s
Mark Antony.
Mark Antony lauds as
“national development works,” which return
p.c. on money borrowed at 54 p.c.,
that the country, as the gentleman puts it,
“is teeming with men carrying their
swags seeking employment.”
Seemingly, Hughes is willing to call him-
himself a Laborite again, if Labor will have
him and supply the indispensable—a safe
seat. He has given notice of a delaying
amendment to the Maritime Industries Bill.
If carried, it would lead to a general elec-
tion, so at least one of his queer associates
is expected to have a sudden illness or an
urgent engagement elsewhere.
James, the wild man from the H'unter,
speaking —or, rather, shouting—on the Mari-
time Industries Bill, described himself as “a
champion of the Federal arbitration prin-
ciple,” and then mentioned proudly that he
had supported the timber-strikers in their
“fight against a pernicious award.” That is
the attitude of his whole party, though
clever spouters have tried to disguise it.
Federal arbitration is a great and glorious
thing, but Laborites won’t be bound by it
unless it favors their side. If Federal Labor
has any reservations against plain anarchy
it has omitted to define them.
A fearful gloom fell on the Queensland
Leg. Assembly when King, Moore’s under-
study, introduced the bill reducing Parlia-
mentary salaries. The old screw was £750;
a brutal axe has hacked off £250, Ministers
and the Speaker being docked in proportion.
The Opposition, of course, howled horribly',
and some Government supporters wept in
secret. It was reserved for Opposition-
leader Forgan Smith to make the most
interesting contribution to the debate. He
regretted that the pursuit of politics should
be differentiated from “other businesses.”
When Maoriland had to economise, Jellicoe
generously suggested that it should begin on
his salary as Gov-
ernor-General. Aus-
tralia does not expect
a rush of similar offers
from its seven Gov-
ernment Houses, but a
reasonable regard for
its financial situation
would be appreciated.
While smitten with
new taxes it has had
to pay £14,000 for the
Governor - General’s
trip to New Guinea.
Minister Glasgow, who
humbly submitted to
the Defence cuts, tried
to make out that the
whole of the money,
except the fuel bill,
would have been spent
on the Albatross if it
hadn’t gone to the
Mandated Territory,
but this is obviously
ridiculous. In one way
and another the seven
Government Houses
cost £lOO,OOO a year.
It is nearly as much
as the King-Emperor
The Governor-
General.
and his Queen get for their privy purse.
A deputation waited on the Maoriland
Primimster recently with a queer grievance.
The Macarthy estate, the income of which
goes to charity, is controlled by the Public
Trustee, and one of its assets is a brewery.
The Public Trustee has been guilty of adver-
tising the brewery, and shamelessly assert-
ing that it makes good beer; and the depu-
tation demanded that he should be restrained
Ward, stifling his mirth, refused to interfere.
Bruee-Page’s mania for appointing royal
commissions has cost the taxpayers just on
£97,000. In six years it has shoved its
responsibilities on to 23 of these peregrinat-
ing bodies, and not all of them have pre-
sented their reports. Before the Constitution
Commission weighed in with its bulky essays
its fe6s and travelling expenses amounted
t° £17,789. It consisted of four lawyers, a
newspaper man, two trade-union officials and
Trashworth, and its report is already dead.
Washington has told China that it will
have to wait until its own house is put in
order before it will be allowed to deal with
Americans in its own courts. Other countries
are expected to express similar sentiments.
Britain’s Rammac Government has never-
theless consented to the abolition of the Con-
sular Courts in Egypt, where not only Bri-
tons but many French, Italians and Greeks
are involved. Compared with the Gyppo, the
Chinaman is a model of capacity and
integrity.
If a man takes a job at a Sydney timber
yard under Arbitration Court conditions, he
is called a “scab” and bashed. It would also
be “scabbery” to get work in an idle New-
castle coalmine instead of accepting Govern
ment rations and assistance from other
unions—in a word, charity. But “Labor
principles” permit timber-workers and coal-
miners to compete with union navvies for
pick-and-shovel jobs. These jobs are handed
out in order of registration at Government
Labor Exchanges, and many timber-workers
and mining-hands have got in ahead of unem-
ployed navvies.
H. W. Clapp’s term as Victoria’s Chief
Railway Commissioner has a year to run.
Lest there should be a swing to Labor at
the general election, some of his admirers
suggest that he should be reappointed now.
Others think it would be better to wait till
the middle of next year, pointing out that
the. Hogans, if triumphant, might provoke
the man into throwing up the job. If one
precedent is followed, the Government will
forget about reappointing him till 18 months
after his term has expired. That occurred
in the case of Shannon, and there had to be
a Ratification Act.
Clapp, who estimates that motor transport
is mopping up a million of revenue that the
Vic. railways ought to be getting, has
obtained Ministerial authority to compete
for business at cut-rates. But it’s no way
for a sovereign State to run its public ser-
vices, all the same. The first point to
consider is whether motor transport is pay-
ing a fair contribution to the making and
upkeep of the roads it uses. If it is, and can
still under-sell the Clapp train service, the
next point is to consider what contribution
motor transport should make towards writ-
ing down the capital value of the railways
and paying off a corresponding amount of
the public debt.
A quaint situation arose from the deci-
sion of striking coalminers at Kurri Kurri
(N.S.W.) to declare electric-light “black”
because it is supplied from mine powerhouses
worked by “loyalists.” Union orders were
issued that every electric glim must be
dowsed. Storekeepers and other members of
the bourgeoisie humbly obeyed, and went
about their occasions with kerosene-lamps.
Not so the sturdy lads from the mines. In
their homes the illegal illumination was given
the usual spin. Solidarity is a great thing
when it doesn’t interfere with domestic
arrangements.
“Woe betide the party that steps between
the member and the people who put him
into Parliament,” said N.S.W. ex-Premier
Holman apropos of the Jarvie case. Still,
it’s been done, and approved. In 1920 the
Federal Nationalists, probably with Hol-
man’s endorsement, came between Hugh
Mahon and his constituents by declaring the
Kalgoorlie seat vacant because of some
remarks which were construed as disloyal.
Mahon recontested the seat with the Labor
nomination, but unsuccessfully; it was the
end of his political career. If Bavin, insists
on Jarvie resubmitting himself to his Ash-
field constituents, he cannot be accused of
trying to eradicate an opponent, as Hughes
was in 1920. He is carrying principle to the
extent of risking the loss of a supporter.
Australian income-tax laws are full of
foggy clauses which admit of merciless exac-
tions, and the Queensland measure is no
exception. A Rockhampton rowing club
lately received a demand for £125, represent-
ing State tax at 4s. 7d. in the £l—the highest
company rate. Following a general practice
among rowing clubs, whose expenses are
heavy and incomes small, it had supple-
mented subscriptions by an annual ball, and
the £125 was the department’s levy on four
years’ net profits. An amendment in favor
of amateur athletic clubs has been promised
by the Moore Government.
While the Commonwealth has lost heavily
on its telegraph and telephone services,
Maoriland’s Post and Telegraph Department
has contributed a steady half-million or
so per annum to the public purse. Yet the
Dominion enjoys penny postage, and has
made cuts in telegraph and telephone charges.
For the year to March 31 last the credit
balance, after paying working expenses and
interest, was £523,809. Improvements in the
long-distance telephone toll service resulted
in a £50,000 increase of revenue from that
source.
Vic. Premier McPherson is not advanc-
ing his cause by girding at Forrest and
Digger Forrest,
M.L.A.
Gray as he does. His
latest querulous
attack on them was
to the effect that they
were “no good to their
constituencies, no good
to the House and no
good to the State.”
But, at least, they
didn’t wangle nomina-
tions and then resort
to political blackmail,
as “Nationalists” have
done. The truth is
that Digger
Assemblymen repre-
sent a wide and deep
dissatisfaction with
“Nationalism”—w i th
its unspeakable pre-
selection system, its
intolerance of honest
criticism, its ignoble
shifts and compro-
mises, its lack of prin-
ciples. Ex-Premier
Bowser, rebuking Mc-
Pherson, said Forrest
and Gray were good
Liberals, who had taken a very active
interest in the work of the House, and he
hoped they would be returned.
Vic. Attorney-General Macfarlan is being
morosely charged with premature disclosure
of the terms ofArgyle’s Racing Reduction
Bill. _ The fact is that the whole recess was
permitted to go by without any bill being
framed, one excuse being that the ailing
Morley (since dead) could not attend Cabi-
net sub-committee meetings. Then when Par-
liament had been in session for several weeks
an effort was made to complete the mea-
sure as a challenge to Labor, which is
friendly to pony-racing—or at least to Wren.
Perhaps Macfarlan objected to these methods,
while approving of the measure, which is
assured of warm support as well as angry
opposition.
The “Australia First” League has arisen
in Victoria. Its objects are to fight for
the political and economic development of
Australia, the placing of Australians in
Australian jobs, the representation of Aus-
tralia by Australians abroad, and the giving
of precedence to the Australian tlag. There
is room for such a movement, and there ought
to be a welcome. Monty Grover, a good
Australian journalist, is president.
The problem of making tramways pay con-
tinues to whiten the thatch of the controlling
parties. Under the
1919 Act 29 muni-
cipal councils are
entitled to share in
the profits of the
Melbourne and sub-
urban trams, except
the St. Kil d a-
Brighton and Sand-
ringham-Beaumaris
services, managed
by the Railway
C o m m i ssioners.
They haven’t had a
dividend since 1920,
and Cameron, chair-
man of the Tram-
ways Board, re-
ports a 1928-29 defi-
cit of £llB,OOO or
so. The position is
not so bad as that,
since the board has
to furnish Govern-
ment contributions
to the Fire Bri-
gades Board, the
Infectious Diseases
Hospital and the
Cameron, of Melb.
Tramways Board.
Licenses Redemption Equivalent Fund; but
it is bad enough, and Cameron sees no pros-
pect of improvement. During the same period
the Sydney trams showed a loss of £9300,
and if a reasonable amount were written off
to cover depreciation and obsolescence the
figure would probably be 10 times £9300.
Ward told the Maoriland House of Reps,
the other day that his Government was not to
be coerced into tolerating open defiance of
the law in Samoa. He was referring to the
native organisation known as the Mau. The
Mau depends on subsidies from wealthy
mischief-makers outside Samoa. If Joseph
had a quiet word with the M.L. banking
institutions he might be able to settle a
two-years’ trouble in one afternoon.
Intense interest was exhibited by Vic.
Labor Assemblymen while Chief Sec. Argyle
was answering a series of questions concern-
ing the good fortune of R. J. Lewis, Chief
Inspector of Explosives. The answers showed
that Lewis, who was originally appointed at
£G2S, the maximum for the job being £750,
rose to £BOO in 1925, to £9OO in 3928, and to
£llOO in the present year of grace. Argyle
admitted that he was Ministerial head when
two of the increases were given—the latest
arrived when most of the big men of the ser-
vice got theirs. Lewis is related by marriage
to a prominent Nationalist Assemblyman.
It is not going to be anything like plain
sailing for railway men who start “protective
societies,” designed to force local business-
men to give up using motor-lorries for trans-
port from warehouse to store. Goulburn
storekeepers point out that the Railway
Department, while objecting to motor-lorry
competition on grounds of public policy,
competes with its own customers by retail-
ing oranges from Leeton, and gives its
employees free passes and special conces-
sions on goods parcels which enables them
to deal with Sydney shops. They also make
tart comparisons as to losses of goods en-
trusted to the railways and to the lorries.
Invited to confer with the heads of the
local “protective society,” the Goulburn shop-
keepers stayed away.
Justice Lowe, the latest addition to Vic.
Supreme Court, succeeds Justice Macfarlan
as President of the Court of Industrial
Appeals. No Supreme Court man has
hankered after the chairmanship of this
tribunal, which is a sort of excrescence of
the wages-board system. If the Federal
Arbitration Court is abolished, as the Bruce-
Pages propose, and Vic. has to depend upon
wages boards for industrial regulation (they
certainly have given vastly better results
than the Federal plan), the Appeal Court
may have to go or be recast. It comprises,
in addition to the Judge, an employer and
an employee from the particular wages
board concerned in an appeal.
On lately taking his seat for the first
time as a member of the Vic. Mining Acci-
dents Relief Fund, Speacock was able to
tell his colleagues how the fund originated.
The nucleus of it was money left over from
the New Australasian mine disaster at Cres-
wick in 1882, when the inrush of water from
old workings cost 22 men their lives.
Speacock, then a clerk in a legal manager’s
office at Creswick. assisted at the rescue
operations. The Speaker, in a postscript,
declared that the real pioneers of the White
Australia policy in Vic. were the wives of
miners who half a century ago blocked the
passage of a drag-load of Chinese engaged
by a company to work in the Clunes mines.
THE QUID PRO QUO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“It ia regarded as unlikely that Premier Bavin’s
measure for the re-constitution of the N.S.W. Legis-
lative Council will pass that body unless members
who are to be eliminated are allowed to retain their
gold railway passes.”
With scarce a murmur off the stage they’ll
So,
Assured that it’s pro bono publico,
Nor set their private interests above
The welfare of the State they serve—and
love.
True patriots, the sacrifice they’ll make,
Stride, as it were, like martyrs to the stake,
Provided that, while they’re above the sod,
The railways always freight them on the nod.
They will not desperately fight reform,
Resist the breakers or defy the storm.
They know their usefulness is gone; they
know
Full well their bolt is shot, their cake is
dough.
No room, they realise, in times like these,
For houses built from party nominees.
Nathless they stipulate, while breath remains,
For free-of-charge conveyance on the trains.
With stiffened upper lips they will go hence,
Some to obscurity from eminence.
Unworthier men protestingly might yell,
They recognise the unavoidable.
All that they ask—surely a trivial price
For acquiescing in the sacrifice—
Is leave for life to travel, when and where
They choose, without disbursing railway fare.
Lang, an he could, would wipe them off the
slate;
Bavin re-mould and bring them up to date.
Between the pair ’twould be assumption rash
To reckon that they haven’t done their dash.
Still, there’s one levfer they can always bring
To rob extermination of its sting:
Resigned they’ll bow them to the coup de
gr&ce
If whoso will may keep his railway pass.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Poverty
Point
THE UNFINISHED QUEST.
“Interviewed by London Observer, Mr. MacDonald said: ‘We have not the slightest doubt that a peace agreement will be reached with the U.S.A. We are determined
that it shall.’”
DIOGENES MACDONALD: “You can sink your fleet now, Mr. Admiral. My friend Hoover and I have decided to look for Peace.
ADMIRAL BULL: “Hadn’t I better wait till you find her?”
“M.G.”: One of the finest inspirations
that have come to a Melbourne business
man is the offer of Sydney Myer, of the
universal providing firm, of £lOOO per annum
to Fritz Hart to give free symphony con-
certs in the open air. Six concerts. are to
be given, commencing in October, which, un-
fortunately, is Melbourne’s most precarious
month as far as weather is concerned.
The site selected is the Alexandra Gardens,
across the Yarra, where there is a natural
amphitheatre capable of accommodating a
vast crowd. The murmur of the traffic
hardly reaches this sylvan retreat, so the
enterprise should have better luck than did
Verbrngghen when he gave an open air
recital in Sydney, selecting Martin-place!
“N.K.C.” : I can endorse recent statements
concerning the rough spin Australian films
are being given by alleged Australian exhibi-
tors. A broadcasting corn made me take a
seat half an hour before the show officially
commenced at one of Melbourne’s picture-
houses. An Australian film was being shown,
lights up, audience entering, etc. The pic-
ture was raced through; the pedestrians in
it were in the Olympic-sprint class. Actually
the film was good, but it was badly focussed.
After it had been raced through the lights
were dimmed for the more important advts.
Of course, if Australians are satisfied to
take this sort of thing -
• “Cauboy”: Most of the controversialists
who demand to know why no Digger has
yet written a “Journey’s End” either have
never seen the play or, having seen it, have
completely missed its purport. One writer
remarked on the necessity for a similar play
“glorifying the Australian soldier.” SherrifE.s
masterpiece does not glorify any. soldier —it
only fills the spectator with pity for all
soldiers, admiration for the human spirit
that can still survive in the most intolerable
circumstances, and loathing for the blind or
evil forces that can bring those circumstances
about. I am inclined to think that if
“Journey’s End” had been staged with Aus-
tralian characters the very people .who
now acclaim it would have denounced it in
no gentle terms. The drunken Stanhope and
the cowardly Hibbert would have been con-
demned as wicked libels on the A.I.F. and
the piece generally would have been declared
unfit for stage presentation. This country
was so far from the real thing that the
romantic idea -of war is still the prevailing
one.
“H'amfat”: Paul Robeson is not the first
negro to play Othello. A negro named Paine
in America a generation ago fancied himself
in the part, although he never achieved met-
ropolitan greatness. Incidentally, a farce
“O-H’ello, the More and More,” was once
played in Australia, the main humor of which
was provided by a huge, wobbly black Des-
demona —in fact, all the characters were
cullud. artificially or otherwise, except
OTlello himself.
“Cine Ma”: Robert Florey, a young
Frenchman' employed at a Hollywood studio,
recently shocked the movie magnates by pro-
ducing a highly artistic and payable picture
for £25. H'e then capped this despicable per-
formance by making another at a cost of £2O.
The 45 set’s he used were built in miniature
out of cardboard and cigar boxes, and in
place of the cyclonic illumination usually
employed he had one 400-c.p. light, under
which he made his characters stay, yet the
photography is beautifully soft and searching.
What is making the producers of million-
doll ar spectacles more wild than anything is
that young Florey did it all while a company
he was engaged with was expensively mark-
ing time waiting on the convenience of Norma
Talmadge.
“Nakh”: Whether or not the engagement
of Paul Robeson to play Othello marks the
first occasion on which a negro has essayed
the Moor, it is not the first time a colored
man has done so. I saw Shakspearc’s
tragedy done in Malay by a native company
once in Java, Othello being taken by a
Javanese. His was an extraordinarily
subtle interpretation, only spoiled by the
fact that Desdemona was as black —or brown
—as her jealous mate.
“L.H.P.”: Interviewed in Maoriland, Allan
Wilkie said he was going to give the first
Dart of Henry IV. as his chief Shakespook
novelty in Sydney in October. Though the
play acts well, it has rarely been staged in
Australia. George Coppin produced it for
the first time in this country at Melbourne
Queen’s on June 9, 1848, with himself as
Falstaff, and Barry Sullivan made a big hit
as Falstaff in a notable revival at Melbourne
Royal in 1863. Sydney last saw the piece
during William Creswick’s memorable sea-
son at the Victoria Theatre in April, 18 <B,
when Creswick appeared as Falstaff, sup-
ported by Bland Holt (Frances), Nat Doug-
las (the Prince), J. Bartlett (the King).
Bill Carey (Hotspur), Julia Merton (Mrs.
Quickly) and Helen Astton (Lady Percy).
“Sudali Habis”: Advertisement is of very
little use to a play like "Journeys End.
Despite strenuous publicity beforehand, the
box-office returns were disappointing for_ the
first few weeks after the opening at Mel-
bourne Royal. After that, so many people
had told their friends that it was not another
mystery play by a new Edgar V allace that
there was a sudden improvement. I he intelli-
gentsia have been lured out of their homes
on false pretences so often before that they
have become absolutely immune to the bland-
ishments of the puff merchants.
"Magis”: Gustave Slapoffski performed a
remarkable feat for a veteran of 7S the other
night in Melbourne. He conducted the new
Victorian Professional Orchestra at the Audi-
torium and in the interval slipped over to the
Regent to wield the baton there. Climbing
the steps of the dais he staggered and fell,
but revived shortly afterwards and after
doing his Regent turn, went back to the
Auditorium and finished that programme.
He had been knocked down by a motor-car
in the morning and taken to bis home in a
severely bruised condition.
“A Major”: “Cine Ma” (B. 4/9/ : 29)
continues to be unfortunate in his choice of
proofs that music has an “absolute and uni-
versal meaning,” and that I am wrong in con-
tending, as I do most unashamedly, that it
bas “no meaning except wliat a hearer puts
into it.” The fact that the Vatican bas
banned certain music written for religious
purposes on the ground that it is pagan in
spirit only proves that there is a difference
of opinion between the Vatican and the com-
posers as to what the music is getting at.
and suggests a possibility that both sides
are wrong. Chatting to me many years ago
about his musical preferences, Leonard
Borwick, since dead, declared: “I haven’t any
settled preference. It all depends upon the
mood I’m in, and if I have to go through an
advertised programme, the way I play will
be tinged by the mood, no matter how hard
I try to be impersonal.” I think that is true
of most players. It’s the same with listeners.
Does the “Blue Danube” mean the same when
you arc dancing it with the onliest girl and
when you hear it 20 years afterwards ' she
in the meantime having married J om.
and grown very fat? As to Mg&ev
tunes and their alleged naughtiness, 1
is strange that these simple rhythms dis-
closed no lewdness to the white ear until
the eye had seen some of the dances to which
Sambo linked them. Finally, why use the
“Racoeszy March” to stir up the devil in
Budapest when it could be played m Dublin
without agitating a single shillelagh ; And wh>
does the melody of "God Save the King
suggest nothing but proud republicanism to
a Yankee? , TT „ „ .
“Adam Ant”: A par. by L.H.P. m a
recent “Point” says that Nellie Stewart made
a great hit as Griolet, the Drummer Boy, in
“La Fille du Tambour Major” in its first
great run at Melbourne Opera Rouse.
Nellie Stewart did not appear in that pro-
duction at all. According to her My
Life’s Story” (p. 46), “of the local people
best known were Harwood and Jessie Grey,
who was the original Drummer Boy. ... 1
opened as Griolet in Adelaide, April, loot.
“Cine Ma” : Every now and then the more
suppressed members of the clergy let their
libidos have a run by tilting at the morality
of the movies. There is an outbreak of this
form of ecclesiastical hysteria on at the
moment in Victoria, and the language used
is far from temperate. Some of the state-
ments made indicate that the speakers are
drawing on their imaginations or hearsay.
Frequenters of the picture palaces are well
aware that never was the screen so decorous
as it is at present. It is true that love is
the principal theme, but so it has been ever
since the drama was invented. It is also
true that murders, suicides and robberies with
violence occur, but these have always been
the stock-in-trade of the dramatist. It is the
use to which these materials are put whicn
matters, and at the moment they are being
used for preaching the most orthodox
morality. I defy any of the rev. clergy
to name one film of late in which virtue
has not triumphed over vice or in which the
conventional sentiments of honesty, loyalty,
self-sacrifice, respect for one’s parents and
obedience to one’s pastors and masters have
not been lauded ad infinitum!
“L.H’.P.”: Allan Wilkie promises revivals
of Sheridan and Goldsmith in October.
“Rivals” will be almost a novelty to Sydney,
as the piece has not been staged here since
Nat Goodwin’s season at the Lyceum in
1896. Mrs. Malaprop was played by Emelie
Melville, an American comic-opera star of
the early ’seventies and ’eighties, and who
figured on the bill as Estelle Mortimer. Ger-
trude Elliott (now Lady Forbes-Robcrtson)
was Lucy, and sister Maxine was an alluring
Lydia Languish. The piece was then hailed
as almost new, the previous revival was by
Billy Hoskins at the old Victoria in 1874.
Hoskins was a perfect Sir Anthony Absolute,
and he introduced Sam Phelps, junior, the
youngest son of Samuel Phelps, the great
London star, but the mantle of the sire had
not fallen on the son.
THE DUMB SPEAK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Sweet vision of the voiceless screen,
Dear silent ghost of other days,
How long your matchless face and mien
Have held my fascinated gaze!
That figure of unequalled grace,
Alluring lips, mysterious eyes....
I could but worship, and abase
My worthless head —but now I rise.
I may no longer kneel to you
Since hearing, “Whadd’ya gonna, do?”
Dear shadow, bodiless, sublime,
So like a winsome elf you come,
To fail to love you were a crime;
But now —would that I could reclaim
Dost ecstasy! Ah, how I thrilled
Through films too many to compute,
To every gesture as you Avilled;
But then, sweet maid, you still were mute.
And now that perfect mouth can speak,
And says, “My goil friend’s gaht a sheek!”
Sweet vision of the voiceless screen,
Beloved ghost of other days,
How long enthralled I might have been,
If they had left you dumb always!
QUEENSLAND.
HASEN.


sfd
or
£*3*s
SL/^ —crf 2^^
1
S-v
i
»<*'
«»t
ew
#R
Co u
v >^&
s&
A
/Msmk
iy§
■>3«
SrSSi
5 l
5W
These Cigarettes are guaranteed to
be specially manufactured under the
most hygienic conditions by Australian
workpeople from pure high-grade
Virginian tobacco expertly blended*
W. D. 8t H. O. WILLS (Aust.) LTD.
Tins 15 I *
23 Ja> I'e
CAlso packed in
tins of 50 & 100
T TAVE you tried them yet——these cork-
■*' tipped cigarettes of incomparable
quality and unusual value?
If not, why postpone ,a delightful
Smoking treat? Buy and try a tin to-day.
COUNTRY
LI
VIR-GITSIIA. CORJC TIPPED
CIGARETTES
in tyowr Own Country- by OV. D. tyllls , (dust)Ltd.


ass
a
//
Home to England in Comfort for £3B!
IN comparison to the fares paid, the new “Bay”
Boats offer you accommodation and service
second to none. Fares to England range from
£3B, or less than a penny a mile.
New "Bay” Boats- -One Class only
This is important; in most liners the greater portion
of the ship is reserved for the use of first-class
passengers, others being placed aft.
'On “Bay” Boats there are no divisions —each and
all enjoy the run of the whole ship. The public rooms
and lounges, the boat and other decks are for every-
one to use. There is a special playroom for children.
Dalgety & Co., Ltd.,
15 Bent Street, Sydney
You can book two-berth, porthole cabins on the
promenade and other decks, also family cabins with
portholes. In the dining-saloon are tables tor 4, b
and 8 persons. Excellent cuisine and a late dinner is
served. Passengers have the undivided attention ot the
ship’s staff.
The installation of a cinema and panatrope add to
the pleasure of the journey home on a Bay Boat.
The route is via Ceylon, Egypt and Malta. Special
arrangements enable you to make trips ashore at
ports of call.
Free!
Write for full par-
ticulars and illus-
trated booklets —sent
free and post free.
Aberdeen & Commonwealth Line,
17 O’Connell Street, Sydney
BRANCHES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES.
asdf
PERSONAL
ITEMS
South Aus. looks at home this time for a
successor to W. T. McCoy as Director of
Education. The prize goes to W. J. Adey,
a local man of 55, who has already held
almost every other possible post in public
W. J. ADEY, S.A.’s new Director of
Education.
education in S.A. McCoy liad his training in
N. S. Wales, and served in Tasmania after-
wards. Adey was a first-class cricketer in
his younger days.
The Federal Capital Commission is to be
continued for another 12 months, but with
two new Commissioners and reduced salaries.
John Butters, who had been head of Tas-
mania’s big hydro-electric enterprise, returns
to his profession, and sets up as a consulting
engineer in Sydney; he will be succeeded by
A. J. Christie, chief accountant in the Post-
master-General’s department, who will draw
£l5OO p.a. Crosbie Goold goes back to
the Malvern (Yic.) city council, which lent
him to the Commonwealth for a twelve-
month ; J. S. Murdoch, the Commonwealth s
Chief Architect and Director-General of
Works, takes his place at £l4OO p.a. ihe
changes become effective on Nov. 2.
The archbishopric of Melbourne, vacant
since January and offered to several other
English clergymen, has been accepted by
Canon Plead, of Liverpool. Mr. ITead con-
fesses that he has never been to Australia
and is “perfectly ignorant of the problems
I shall have to face,” but this ignorance is
reckoned an asset —being Australian is a
disqualification. A Repton and Cambridge
man, the canon was ordained in 1902, being
then 28; during the war he was senior chap-
lain to the Guards and was decorated with
the M.C. and bar. He has written a book.
“The Fallen -Stuarts,” and his recreations
are cycling and walking.
The Bulletin’s James Edmond, who had
his 70th birthday not long ago, has gone
to the other side of the continent to see
how Westralia is looking in its centenary
year. He travelled to Adelaide by train,
taking the Broken Hill route, and completed
the journey to Perth in one of Brearley's
’planes—actual flying time, 17 hours. He
has now - flown to or from every State capital
in Australia.
In 73 years the N.S.W. Parliament has
had only four librarians. Walter McEvilly
looked after the books for 21 years, Robert
Rogers for 10 and Francis Walsh for 35.
J. J. Quinn succeeded AValsh in 1924; a pro-
duct of St. Aloysius’s College, he served in
the Public Library for two decades. He is a
genial and scholarly little man, and a godsend
to the sort of legislator who loves to pelt
his opponents with quotations.
A. ,T. Villiers, the adventurous Tasmani&n
journalist who has written rattling good
books on his experiences in sailing-ships,
took a pal, Ron Walker, with him on his
latest voyage in the Grace Harwar. _ Poor
Walker was fated to find a grave in the
South Pacific. While he was aloft the
upper topgallant yard carried away and
struck him, and he was dead when his mates
reached him. He was only 22. A former
King’s School (Sydney) boy, he worked on
the Hobart Mercury before he shipped
aboard the Finnish craft. He had a moving-
picture enterprise in view.
A Coatesite who shines with more lustre
in Opposition than on the Government
benches is David Jones, who represents the
cow-farming constituency of Ellesmere,
South Island. Jones was one of the founders
of the M.L. Farmers’ Union, and has been
in Parliament, off and on, for 10 years. He
is also chairman of the Meat Producers’
Board. A gift for incisive criticism helps
to make him a power to a country where
more than half the population gets its living,
directly or indirectly, from the land.
Frank Clarke, president of Yic. Uppish
House, is just back from a six months’ tour
in the Cold Land. He motored over every
highway and byway below the Tweed, and
alm.ost persuaded himself that his dad and
grand-dad held in Vic. an acreage equal to
that of England. It was by no means
Frank’s first visit. He knows his way about
London as well as he does about Melbourne.
John S. Moyes, the new Anglican Bishop
of Armidale (N.S.W.), is the son of a coun-
try schoolmaster in South Aus. and just 45.
He took various honors at St. Peter’s and
Adelaide University, and had several years'
mission-work in London slums before return-
ing to Adelaide churches. He is a tireless
worker, a keen cricketer, a cyclist (though
his parishioners forced a motor-car on him)
and a trained musician. Also he is strong
on industrial matters, and had a large hand
in settling the Port Pirie strike of 1921.
After making two attempts to unseat
Frank Forde, the Queensland Nat.-Cockies
have decided that the immense Capri-
cornia electorate will have to be nursed
for the next Federal election, and it
has asked Bob Staines, of Baralaba, Dawson
Valley, to do the nursing, Staines opposed
Forde at short notice last time, and polled
good majorities in the State electorates of
Fitzroy, Iveppel, Mt. Morgan, Normanby and
Port Curtis. Afterwards he did good work
for his party during the State election as
campaign director in Central Queensland.
Like Forde, he is young, energetic and
enthusiastic.
H. W. (“Hoppy”) Clark, who has pegged
his last claim at Rabaul, was a notable
instance of the triumph of mind over matter.
In spite of physical disabilities which would
have kept some men in a bath chair, he took
an active part in the later development of the
New Guinea goldfields as prospector and min-
ing engineer. “Floppy” was well known in Syd-
ney and London mining circles, and was the
first promoter to carry a N.G. proposition to
Bull’s country, where he arranged the flota-
tion of New Guinea Gold and Osmiridium,
and, later, of N.G Development. It was for
the latter that he returned to the Mandated
Territory on the visit that was fated to be
his last.
Sam Lazarus, who has passed on, at 65,
was a son of the man who made a fortune
out of the Lazarus New Chum mine at Ben-
digo. Sam, himself an investor, was chair-
man of _ the Bendigo. Jockey Club for 24
years, and with his brother Dan, formerly
itf.L.A. for the district, owned two good
horses, Freedom and Briton. With Free-
dom the brothers won the V.R.C. Grand
National Steeplechase.
A Victorian by birth, Charles Taylor
migrated north Ml years ago and humped
a suitcase of seeds through all the coastal
towns. He got so much encouragement that
eventually he started a seed business of his
own in Brisbane. His political kinder-
CHARLIE TAYLOR, Speaker of the new
Queensland Legislative Assembly.
garten was the Windsor town council, of
which he was an alderman for 12 years.
A gold railway pass first dangled on his
waistcoat in 1918. Increasing his lead at
successive elections, he has now nrmiy
entrenched himself. He was leader of the
Opposition in 1923. His successor, Moore,
offered him the Speakership after the re-
cent elections, and a very good Speaker he
ought to be.
Dan Lazarus, brother of Sam, who has
gone west in Queensland, was a Leg. Assem-
bly man for three terms, between 1892 and
1902. One night, 27 years ago, he, by a
gesture, rebuked William Shiels, some time
Premier, for quoting Scripture inaptly. In
the course of an impassioned speech, bhieis
exclaimed “Come forth, Lazarus.” Dan rose
on the back Ministerial bench, lifted his hat
and bowed. Time was when there were fonr
of the Chosen in Vic. Assembly. Now there
is none. - , , ,
Like Pontius Pilate and others, Sir John
Chancellor is finding the overlordship of Pales-
tine no bed of roses. A member of a Mid-
lothian family, the harassed proconsul has
had a distinguished military and civil career
since he joined the Sappers in 1890. His
active service includes the Khartoum expedi-
tion of 1896 and Indian frontier fighting,
while he has been Governor of Mauritius,
Trinidad and Southern Rhodesia. Born in
1870, he is still a youngster as British
administrators go.
The estate of Harold Fisher., Adelaide mer-
chant, has been sworn at £51,000. There are
various gifts to charities, but the big be-
quests are £3OOO for scholarships at St.
Mark’s, the University residential college,
and £5OOO to S.A. Cricket Association (of
which he was president) for yet another
pavilion, at the unprotected north end of
the Oval.
Discriminating Melbourne gunmen are
likely to give George Dowler, a Carnegie
newsagent, a wide, berth in future. Dowler
has been attacked in his shop twice within
three weeks. On the first occasion he ignored
the pointed weapon, snatched his automatic
out of a drawer and fired at his assailant.
The next visit was from a young man who
stuck a shotgun in his face; being unable
to reach a weapon, Dowler felled him with
his fist and sat on the prostrate form until
help arrived. On the following day two
officials of the Woollahra (Sydney) branch
of the N.S.W. Government Savings Bank, T.
L. Holdsgrove (teller) and N. C. Everitt
(manager), gallantly faced three armed ruf-
fians who tried to rob the bank, and though
shot one after the other —fortunately neither
wound was serious—drove them away. The
breed is still good.
.Tames Kidd, one of the big men in the
Australian pastoral and pastoral-finance
business, leaves the g.m.’s chair of the Mer-
cantile, Land and Finance Co. at the end of
the month, though it will still have his ser-
vices as a director. Born in Kircaldy, young
Kidd went first to the Bank of Scotland
and then to the Union of Australia in
London. Transferred by; the latter bank to
Australia he climbed quickly to the post of
inspector in Victoria —and that a long
32 years ago. The A. M., L. and F. Co., which
had been hard hit by financial stress, low
wool prices, drought and the rabbit invasion,
won his services soon afterwards, and first
as manager in Sydney and later as general
manager lie not only steered the co. back
to prosperity, but kept it prosperous. Aus-
tralia doesn’t recognise yet, but it may some
day. what it owes to James Kidd and his
kind for keeping private finance sound during
years when public finance went crazy.
Queensland Mines Minister Atherton, who
has been probing the Labor Government’s
coal contract with 11. C, Sleigh (the latter
says he got a mere £648 out of it, and has
offered to produce his books), is the youngest
son of the man who pioneered the Atherton
Tableland and was the first white born at
Marceba. As a child of the tropics he
would interest the Medical Congress, for lie
is a keen-eyed, active fellow and a tremen-
dous worker. He has been pastoralist, store-
keeper, butcher and canegrower; .iudge of
stock at shows and president of two show
societies; president of the Cairns Jockey
Club; chairman of two shire councils and
;i harbor board; and representative of ti.;
canegrowcrs on a district association, a sup-
pliers’ committee, a prices board and a cen-
tral council, besides being vice-president of
the Australian Sugar Producers’ Association.
Elected in May for the first time, lm was
promptly given the hardest job in the Minis-
try and is tackling it with furious energy.
Atherton is 50.
Vicary Horniman, who has died suddenly
at Manly (N.S.W.), was paymaster at the
N.S.W. Treasury for many years. He held
many offices in amateur sporting organisa-
tions, and only a couple of months ago was
elected captain of the North Shore Rowing
Club for the 30th time. Horniman was man-
ager of the 1912 Australian Olympic team.
Included in the party was Roger Fitz-
hardinge’s famous eight-oar crew, which won
the Grand Challenge Cup at Henley and
was narrowly beaten at the Olympiad by the
London R. C. crew.
L. 11. Botten, of Adelaide, for a while the
most-discussed private citizen in Australia,
has been freed from the gaol-shadow hanging
over him since June. As acting secretary to
the Dried Fruits Board of S.A. he t<dd
an astonished High Court that he had in-
structions from his Minister not to produce
the Board’s minute-books. Remaining firm,
he was committed for contempt, but shortly
released, pending an appeal. The appeal has
now been turned down by the Full Court,
the books are produced, and the innocent
official has been released from his bond to
return to gaol when called upon.
R. 11. ’Croll, registrar of the Vic. Council
of Public Education, will accompany Prof.
Stanley Porteous,
of Hawaii, on his
skull-me a s u r i n g
expedition to the
Macdounell Ranges.
The department
will lose nothing
by his absence; it
is his annual vaca-
tion .which, he is
using. Croll is a
bundle of energy,
who spends his
leisure on walking-
tours. He pub-
lished a book a
couple of years ago
describing in de-
lightful style that
part of Victoria
never yet visited by
the motorist. Por-
teous is a Vic.
State-school pro-
duct, whose con-
tributions to psy-
chology are world-
famous.
Dr. G. H.
ABBOTT, presi-
dent of the Aus-
tralasian Medical
Congress in session
in Sydney last
week.
It. B. Avery, postmaster at Goulburn
(N.S.W.), lias signed oft after 51 years
service. ITe started as a telegraph messenger
at Narrabri. The salary was 2s. 6d. a week,
and Avery and another hoy delivered 350
to 500 messages a month, all on foot. Present-
day telegraph-boys have bikes, but they re
not much faster than the foot-sloggers.
The dozen superb drawings which Norman
Lindsay did to illustrate “The Quarter-
master” have been reproduced in two-tone
ink on art paper, and are now on sale at Ihe
Bulletin’s chief office, Sydney, and at all
branch offices. The complete set of one
dozen drawings costs only 25., and to put
country subscribers on the same tooting as
those of the cities, the set will be sent post-
free from the head office to any address in
Australasia.
— ""«
THE NARK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Hughes spoke what can only be regarded as
his farewell to the National party. Aw elder member
recalled that many years ago Andrew Fisher declared
that ‘vindictiveness will be Hughes’s downfall.’ The
House has surely never before listened to so vitriolic
an attack by a member upon the leader of his party.”
Time was you threw a party over, brother ;
Now from a second one your frame they
heave.
It looks as if you’ll never have another,
Either to be ejected from or leave.
And should your name survive to point a
moral,
Or to adorn a tale in history live,
’Twill but denote capacity for quarrel
And resoluteness never to forgive.
In days when kings and rulers stooped to
court you
No might-be rival near your throne you
brooked;
And whosoever sought to cross or thwart
you,
His goose was pretty certain to be cooked.
’Tis close on seven years since you were
outed
From place pre-eminent and power rich,
And, ever since, no man who knew you
doubted
You “had it in” for those who queered
your pitch.
The Hand that Led a nation has a lonely
Furrow as ever Rosebery to plough;
The Voice that Rang—what has it come to?
Only
A raven croaking from a withered bough.
Ah. William, the most astute may blunder,
But few achieve your duplicate mistake ;
You rent the party that made you asunder,
Now, mouthing feeble threats and futile
thunder,
You’re booted from the one you helped to
make.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Narara”: I submit this as one of the
queerest coincidences of the war. Twin
brothers who had lost sight of each other
for years enlisted, one in Sydney, the other
in Auckland. Neither had the faintest idea
that the other had enlisted. Both were on
leave in England in October, 1917, and both
overstayed their leave and were marked
down as a.w.l. Both were arrested in Maida
Vale on the same night and were lodged in
the same cell, within five minutes of each
other. The reunion began and ended there.
They were separated the following morning
and have not seen each other since.
* * * =!=
“Lao-dah”; The second “red rain” in
two years descended on Melbourne the other
evening. It stained houses terra-cotta, made
motor-cars look as if their owners had just
returned from a trip to Tibooburra, and cost
the Railway Department an extra £l5O in
cleaners’ wages. Householders who had to
spend the next morning removing gluey por-
IT TOOK A BROTHER TO CURE HER.
BOBBIE: “So your sister’s learning to swim at last, Curly?"
CURLY : “Yes —since I yanked her out yesterday morning."
tions of the hinterland from their windows
tried to console themselves with the reflection
that it was.good top-dressing for the spring
garden; but Government Meteorologist Hunt
says that it was too light to be of any value.
Nevertheless, if one takes an excessively
long view of the phenomenon, the coastal
fringe of south-eastern Australia is in much
the same position as the seaboard of North
China. There areas carrying over ten mil-
lions of population are covered with a de-
posit which in some places is over a thou-
sand feet in depth. Valleys have been obli-
terated and the tops of mountain ranges,
stick out from the surface like islands out
of an ocean. In some places cities have been
built one. above the other up to six storeys,
all through the dust blown from the Central
Asian plateaus thousands of miles away.
Victoria may be like that some day—a mil-
lion or so years hence.
* * * #
“L.C.”: In the ’nineties a resident of
Enmore, near Newtown (Sydney), purchased
a small cottage property with a minimum
deposit, and secured the balance of the pur-
chase money by a mortgage to the bank.
Some few years later he left for England,
after advising his agent to collect the rent
and use it towards paying off the advance ;
then he apparently forgot about it. The
years that saw the brick pits grow deeper
saw the debt finally wiped off, and the rent
beginning to accumulate. At last the agent
concluded that a client who did not write in
30 years was probably dead, and advised
the Public Trustee. Inquiry by that official
located the owner living in Cornwall; the
upshot is that the absent-minded one finds
himself the possessor of an unencumbered
property of the value of about £4OO, with a
like amount to his credit in the bank.
* * * *
“Morita”; Our narrowest squeak was at
Pozieres, the morning of the attack on the
village. After repeated Fritz counter-attacks
it was discovered that not only machine-gun
cartridges but Mills bombs were running low.
Ammu. dumps were too far back to provide
prompt relief, and for a few hours troops
behind the line witnessed the amazing spec-
tacle of small parties rushing back from the
front with sandbags and haversacks, gather-
ing clips of cartridges 'and bombs scattered
along the track past the Chalk Pit to Casu-
alty Corner, and even relieving dead Diggers
of the precious ammunition they had been
carrying in. This was done under the con-
stant barrage Flutz was putting along the
track, and there were many who never re-
turned to the village with their spoils.
*. * * *
“Burglar’s Laborer”: An illustration of
the advisability of going on the spree in
ancient garments was picked up by the
police in the gutter of one of Sydney’s most
thug-infested streets the other evening. Their
capture, who was hopelessly drunk, proved to
have money in every pocket of his clothes, and
the value of bank deposit slips and securities
on him totted up to £l2OO. Lying in the gut-
ter in tattered clothes, and with his toes stick-
ing out of his canvas shoes, he had not seemed
worth “fanning”—even to the harpies who
are prepared to perform that operation for
mere coppers. It was a coincidence that on
the same evening a flash suit of clothes
earned a much younger man a spell in hos-
pital with broken bones and contusions, after
lie had put up a heroic defence of the
couple of shillings which was all that re-
warded the assailants who bashed him into
insensibility.
:Jc $ ❖
“Naklioda” ; I know of a more expensive
Oriental dish than the lichee bud and ginger
jelly indulged in by the Cairns Chinaman
(B. 28/8/’29). It is a delicate, vegetable
derived from the core, or umbut, of the
cocoanut-tree, and its removal involves the
death of the plant. Naturally the natives
do not glut themselves on it except when a
typhoon or some other natural disaster has
laid a plantation low, but I remember an
occasion in Borneo when, in order to do a
visiting planter proud, our mess president
ordered sufficient to go round a table of
10 men. Our guest voted the dish excellent
and thanked us for our hospitality. A
month or so afterwards I was trailing a
gun over his property, and my “boy” pointed
out a row of defunct trees. “That is where
cookie got the umbut, tuan,” he explained,
* * * *
“Earl Errol”: “G. Coral” (B. 31/7/2!))
is right when he emphasises the tremendous
amount of survey work that remains to be
done up round Papua and the Mandated
Territory of New Guinea. When I was
appointed to a position in the shipping de-
partment of the Mandated Territory’s Expro-
priation Board I found all the charts were
obsolete—9o per cent, of them, by the way,
were German. I once took a schooner
northward from the Maron Group to
one of the outlying plantations on the
Anchorite islands. For a whole day I
cruised around in hazy weather, and at the
close of it endangered my schooner and
master’s permit by running on a reef. This
reef turned out to be on the island I was
looking for. It was merely seven miles east
of the position marked on the chart.
* * * *
“Morita”: Many of war’s grimmest trage-
dies were the result of “strays” crashing
down in unexpected places, as though fired
at random by
enemy artillery. At
Pozieres we shel-
tered with a quar-
tette of signallers
out of the danger
zone of a barrage
around the post we
were making for.
Finally, making a
break for it, we got
through. W[e learnt
later that a shell
had dug a grave for
all the signallers,
though there was
no other shellhole
within a radius of
100 yards. On the
Menin-road, near
the outskirts of
Ypres, a lone Ger-
man heavy drop-
ping on the cobble
road accounted for
20 of our unit,
without counting
Tommies marching
past the fateful
spot. Worse still
was the fate of the
remnants of a com-
pany of Tommy
engineers at Bulle-
court already de-
pleted by casual-
dies. They passed
us, trailing behind
a limber making
for a ridge behind
the notorious rail-
way bank, seldom
troubled by shell-
ing. We were
called out about an
hour later, after a
terrific explosion.
In the darkness the
Tommies were un-
loading amen o 1,
stacking it in a
heap where it could
be shifted by our
infantry before day-
light. The only
shell to drop in the
locality fell right
against the limber;
all the men who
were not killed
could have gone
out in one ambu-
lance. Even sort-
ing out the living from the mangled mass
of men, horses and limber took till daylight.
In one stray burst a unit had practically
ceased to exist.
# ❖ •
“Coot”: The municipality of Fitzroy
(Vie.) claims the three weightiest coun-
cillors in Australia. The heaviest, Cr. J.
Foley, is 24 stone; the other two tip the
beam at 22 and 18, respectively.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: A. E. McLennan; diocesan
registrar of the Anglican communion in Mel-
bourne, has reported a miracle in connection
with the St. Paul’s cathedral spires fund,
which has enormouslv stimulated the droop-
ing hopes of the faithful. Dean Aickin hav-
ing threatened the abandonment of the
financial drive when the
job had been only half-
completed, Registrar
McLennan announced
that, being seriously con-
cerned about the matter,
he asked Divine Provi-
dence for a sign. The
next morning he received
an unconditional offer of
£5OOO from the Coles
brothers. The donors are
the proprietors of the
“nothing more than half
a crown” shops which,
begun in a small way,
have now become a chain
linking up the whole
metropolis.
“Roka”: Maoriland like-
wise has a Ninety-mile
Beach with a “relentless
sand-drift” towards the
interior (B. 28/8/’29).
On a visit to a settlement
near Hokianga I one
morning saw nearly the
entire population gazing
at a high hill that
guarded the townlet from
the sea blasts. On the
top of the hill appeared
a faint white streak, the
first indication ' that the
sand-drift had conquered
the summit, and would
presently creep down
upon the little settle-
ment and its cultivated
lands. Marram grass may provide the remedy,
but these settlers had pinned their faith to
the intervening hills.
* * *
“Percy Pawnticket” : Over 450 people have
been listed as missing by the Sydney police
during the present year, and over 70 of them
remain missing—which suggests that there
is much material for the mystery story-
writer in Sydney. No doubt some have been
the victims of foul play and others have been
stricken by loss of memory, but a prosaic
antipathy to writing letters is responsible
for many disappearances which baffle rela-
tives and worry the police. In the Sydney
Divorce Court not long since the tale was
told of a husband who was seeing a friend
off to Maoriland and took too many parting
drinks. He went to sleep on the boat, was
treated, when he woke, as a stowaway, and
went to prison when the steamer reached
her destination. He did not think it worth
while to write to his wife, reckoning that he
would be back in a month or so; but he
failed to find a job on a boat back to Sydney,
so he worked his passage to San Francisco.
Still he didn't write —and he persisted in
not writing when his Odyssey extended itself
to Canada and India. He didn’t return, in
fact, for six years, to find to his indignation
that liis wife, judging herself his widow,
had remarried. His attitude during the
IF HE WAS ALLOWED TO CHOOSE.
W IFE: “How would you like mother here for a bit, darling?"
HUBBLE: “In spirit, dear — in spirit."
divorce proceedings (which went against
him) was that women are impatient, un-
reasonable creatures.
:|: :i< *
“Isharagi” : The wettest place we struck in
Palestine was Bir Salem, about eight miles
s.-w. of Jaffa. Thither we came after the big
stunt of 1917, and in the cellar of a big house
(afterwards used by Allenby as advanced
G.I-1.Q.) huge barrels of wine ranged in
goodly rows met our delighted view. Every-
thing’ that would hold liquid was brought
into commission water-bottles, canvas
buckets and even horses’ nosebags, these last
being tied at the top and hung around the
horses’ necks, where the, globes oozed and
dripped grapejuice as the squadron moved
off. The potency of the stuff was demon-
strated well into that night, and its imma-
turity well into the next day.
«I» SS *
“Uramao”: A wrathful motorist of 73
years, who was convicted in Papakura
(M.L.) for dangerous driving due to faulty
eyesight and other infirmities of age.
opened his exhaust full in a letter resigning
from the Auckland Automobile Association.
“You do take my life when you do take the
means whereby I live,” the veteran quoted,
and launched into a fulmination against the
prosecuting Town Board. “I can do any-
thing but make my car speak. My eyesight is
as good as that of lots of men who are 50.
I can drive a golf ball close to 300 yards,
and off 22 yards break an average of eight
out of ten clay birds with a shotgun. In three
innings last year at cricket I made 33.19 and
12,” The Town Board, unimpressed by these
achievements, refused to restore his license.
* * *
“Sixenate”: A rather interesting detail
about the arrest of two men suspected of
purloining jewellery is that, while one of
them had in his possession a revolver, alleged
to be part of the loot, the other was merely
equipped with a dummy automatic. The
really expert criminal hates to have
lethal weapons in his possession, since they
mean heavy sentences in the event of a
capture, and in tight corners are a tempta-
tion to a darker crime than is intended. It
is probable that many citizens have raised
their hands at the point of “pistols that
could not fire a shot; the man who has what
purports to be a revolver pressed, into his
ribs is not likely to run any risks in testing
whether it is the real article or a clever
imitation.
* * *
“Strict Veg.”: There was a quaint item
in the Yorkshire Post (Eng.) recently. A
photo was described as representing a new
type of open street-ear put on in Melbourne
to enable residents to see the sights ana
imbibe the fresh air of the capital, D>'
paper was 44 years late in its discovery. Ih p
vehicle depicted was a cable-tram!
* * *
“Stickybeak”: There are black Jews in
South Africa, too. I have seen a "Synagogue
for Colored Jews” in Cape Town. Hollar,
has for centuries had a big Jewish popula-
tion ; some of the Dutch emigrants to tn-'
Cape were Jews, and they naturally mac ■
converts among the natives. Judaism, o
course, is a faith, not a nationality; it wc "_
be absurd to suggest that all persons who pr-
fess the Jewish religion are of the Heori
race. Even in Palestine a proportion or t 1
Jews are Slavs and Teutons, whereas '
so-called Arabs are really of Senutm desr •
although their forefathers accepted the cree
of Mahomet.
CULTURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Bishop of Plymouth, opening a World Con-
ference on Adult Education at Cambridge, advocated
tutorial classes for bankers to study Plato, others
for stockbrokers to study the history of Europe.”
I asked a greengrocer the price
Of cauliflowers—and asked him twice.
He closed his book, and stared at me.
“Well, Green’s is popular,” said he,
“Though, if you want a later view,
Trevelyan is the boy for y0u....
Oh, cauliflowers? A shilling each,
Crisp as Macaulay-flowers of speech.”
“A pound of sliort-loin chops.” “Yes, sir.”
The butcher rang his register
And watched the pointer dip and rest
Upon the scales. “Now, Lamb’s the best.
I’m through with Bacon, I confess,
Since Strachey’s book on old Queen Bess.
Kidd, somehow, always gets my goat;
No, Lamb obtains my casting vote.”
“A neck-shave and a trim,” I said.
The barber bent his glossy head
And, as he clipped, began to speak
In faultlessly accented Greek.
“That bloke Euripides could write;
I learn a Chorus every night.
Pomades I sell, as fate decrees;
But ‘Bacchse’ claims my hours of ease.”'
Within the savings bank I slid,
And filled a slip to draw a quid.
The banker, with a haughty frown,
Barked “Your deposit’s half a crown.”
I begged his pardon. With a snort,
And snapping eyes, he cut me short.
“Apologies,” he sneered, “I bar—
Save Plato’s ‘Apologia.’ ”
VICTOHIA.
WAWHERESH.


“Clarence Cafeteria”: Some 150 girls
walked out of a Melbourne shoe factory the
other day because a forewoman objected to
gum-chewing.' The national pastime of
America has been adopted in practically
all Melbourne’s factories, and as a rule
it is not objected to. In this case,
however, the management complained, the
girls were indulging in a competition as to
who could draw out the longest ribbon; and
as they were engaged on refined feminine
goods, the material suffered.
# * *
“Wakatu”: A book containing the first
laws issued in the Maori language lias
recently come to light in the Dominion. It
was printed in 1856, and once belonged to
James Shepherd, who crossed from Sydney
with the Rev. Samuel Marsden in 1814 to
open the mission at the Bay of Islands. Loose
in the book were some interesting documents.
One bearing the date November 20. 1851.
records that certain chiefs of the Bay of
Islands transferred to one John Buchanan
a piece of land for the consideration of four
blankets. The signatures of the chiefs are
imitations of their respective tattoo marks.
On the back of the deed the same piece of
land is transferred to the .Church Mission
Society for £5, the signature being that of
the British Resident, James Busby.
* * * *
“Pawang”: The Victorian police could
give a prompt and exceedingly pertinent
opinion on Conan Doyle’s proposal to have
clairvoyants employed for crime detection
(B. 28/8/’29). When Williams, the young
man from Goulburn, was missed for some
weeks from his motor-car, all the leading
mediums in the metropolis proffered then* ser-
vices. Some saw him buried under the earth,
others had a vision of him floating lifeless on
water, and one advised the detectives to look
for his dismembered body down an aban-
doned mine-shaft. No crystal-gazer saw him
staying in a boarding-house in Melbourne,
which was where he. actually was most of
the time.
* * * *
“Senex”: The paragraph on the names of
Perth thoroughfares (B. 21/8/’29) recalls
the circumstances in which the streets of
Adelaide were labelled. Captain John Hind-
marsh, the first Governor, and Hurtle Fisher,
Resident Commissioner, both claimed the
right of sponsoring; to get over the difficulty
a committee of prominent citizens was
AT THE TELEPHONE EXCHANGE.
SMALL BISITOR: “Why don’t you make up your mind which hole you want it in and
leave it there?”
appointed to hold the scales. According to
one of them, the Governor came to the
meeting with a “pocketful of Royal and
Nava] heroes.” The committee agreed unani-
mously to the patriotic names of Rmg
William-street and Victoria-square, but when
the Governor, who had Judge Jeffcott for his
mouthpiece, tried to fasten the names of
Admirals Duncan and Howe on the two
next streets, the committee rebelled and in-
sisted on perpetuating Wakefield and Grote,
two of the founders of South Australia.. In
the end only three of the Governor s choices
THE NEW DEGREE.
“My new friend, writes, B.Sc. after his name.”
“Gee! I didn’t know he was a Boy Scout!
(Malcolm, Tynte and Strangways) w
approved. Thanks to that early-day com-
mittee, tlie streets of Adelaide bear to-day
the names of the founders of the province, as
well as those of leading pioneer officers and
citizens. When the business centre of the
city came into being, liundle and llindLey
streets were named after two of the men on
the board of the South Australian Company.
* # * *
“Erua” • There are reasons besides the
clarity of’ the Maori language to account
for the Byrd expedition hearing a Maori
broadcast with exceptional distinctness. W ire-
less experts long ago discovered some un-
usual properties in the atmosphere round
the Unstable Isles; the Wilkins expedition
was amazed at the clearness with _ which
Maoriland items came through During the
war, messages from the North Sea. unheard
in England, were picked up in Maoriland,
some of them by amateurs, who handed them
on to the Government. When the French
ship Aldebaran was last in M.L. waters one
of the surprises of the tour was the perfect
reception of messages from I ranee. -tier
experts were emphatically of the opinion that
Maoriland was atmospherically favored m
wireless work. # ...
“Uramao”: In an Otago (M.L.) small
town the reporter of the local paper attended
the police court, and recorded the regular ap-
pearances of the village drunk and the pen-
alties inflicted on him. The two, though so
often in close propinquity, never spoke. Latei,
when the reporter had become a full-fledged
editor and the village drunk was still the
village drunk—only more so—they went into
camp, were wounded in France, and ulti-
mately reached the same hospital m England.
The editor recovered before his townie, and
to him was allotted the duty of wheeling the
latter round in an invalid s chair through
one of England’s most charming _ country-
sides The pair are now back at their formei
occupations, and the toper generously admits
his obligation. Though a little censorious
of his editorial pal’s insistence on steering
clear of ye old English inns, lie invariably
concludes with; “But there’s no harm m the
poor blighter.”
* # *
“Tin”; The paragraph about an inoffen-
sive man being smacked in an Auckland
(M.L.) tram (8.'4/9/’29) reminds me that
I was once travelling on an Onehunga cai
when a respectable couple seated themselves
in front of a loquacious drunk who at once
prodded the lady affably in the back and
remarked, “Hallo. Missus! The lady
promptly changed her seat, but the drunk
continued his unwelcome attentions. You
stop annoying my wife or I’ll pull your
nose,” said the irate husband, and soon after-
wards the couple alighted, leaving the
offender muttering his opinion of unfriendly
fellow-travellers. Presently a second couple
arrived and occupied the seats in front of
him. He woke up from a beery snooze with
a start, surveyed the lafdy with a baleful
eye, and remarked. “He said he’d pull my
nose. Well, I’ll pull yours first." There-
upon he did so, while the lady shrieked wildly
at the unprovoked assault. I left amid a
commotion caused mainly by an infuriated
husband belaboring the drunk with an um-
brella, while the motor-man and conductor
endeavored to separate the combatants, and
sundry passengers tried to shriek an explana-
tion of the occurrence. Looking back I saw
a dark form lying in the roadside dust. 1
think it was the drunk.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: It is a tribute to Chinese
tolerance that the Flowery Land seems to
be the only country on the Euro-Asian con-
tinent where the Jews have not learnt what
a pogrom means. The Chinese Jew is fairly
numerous in some of the inland towns, and
he shows all the
Hebraic genius for
accumulating money
among the poorest
communities. Never-
theless, lie is never
interfered with, and
lias so mingled with
the indigenous popu-
lation that it is hard
to distinguish him.
His synagogues ' are
similar to Chinese
temples on the out-
side, and the chief
sign of his faith is
his refusal to par-
take of pork, a dish
of which Ah Sin is
inordinately fond.
On the other hand,
the Chinese Moslem
has always retained
the fierce fanaticism
of the original Arab
fro in whom he
sprung. Some of
the bloodiest up-
heavals in Chinese
annals have been
due to Moslem in-
surrections. There
is - one at present
raging in far Kansu,
and an Australian
missionary who re-
cently struggled out
of the mess reported
that up to date the
Prophet; 1 had put 250,000 unbelievers to the
scimitar, and were still going strong.^
“Murfeah” : Touching the theft of houses
m 4/9/’29), I know an instance in which
a small weatherboard cottage was stolen or
rather, reacquired by its morally lightii
owner. Owing to an error it had been built
on the block next door, so to speak. Latei
the owner of the block turned up, and made
a preposterously small offer for the dwelling
which had become his in law. One night a
battalion of bricklayers and carpenteis
arrived, armed with lifting-jacks, saplings and
rollers. A traction-engine furnished power,
and the cottage was transferred to the right
Mock in 60 minutes. The nark threatened
legal proceedings, but thought _ better of 1
when he found that public opinion was dead
against him. *
“Caractacus”: It is a favorite form of
humor in the cities to try to destroy the
pleasure of an owner in his new Queen Ann.,
bungalow with the mellifluous abo name by
assuring him that translated literally
means “a blowfly, alighting on a dead
goanna,” or something worse. As for tlie
strav abo. to be found on stations, he is
usually prepared to oblige with any ,jatei-
pretation that will pan out well m bacca
and tchillins. I once worked on a station
with a beautiful-sounding name, but the
pleasure of the womenfolk in it was badly
shattered when a too-cunous Dackeroo elicited
from Midnight, the horseboy, that the word
meant the “place of stinking kangaroos.
Midnight was impervious to all protests; ami
the mischief he wrought was not undone till
Flourbag, two-thirds of a century older and
seons wiser, assured an agitated daughter
of the house that the word really meant
“water singing over white stones in a creek.
\nd now this much more pleasant version
is retailed to visitors, and doubtless will con-
tinue to be until some Vandal comes along
and reimposes Midnight’s translation.
* * * *
“Bunting” : Much importance was attached
to names in Westralian mining booms, the
ingenious persons who pegged out late
claims (mostly worthless) striving to catch
some reflected glory. Thus, when the
Bullfinch was being acclaimed a potential
wealth-producer in 1910, neighboring leases
were promptly named the Chaffinch, Green-
finch and Goidfinch. One perspiring boom-
ster, who had an area somewhere along the
line, where the reef should have been
and wasn’t, appealed to me desperately
to give him another variety of finch;
he reckoned anything with such an addendum
would be floatable. I couldn’t think of one
at the moment, and he made the best of it by
christening his lease the Grosbeak. It wasn’t
till weeks later that I remembered the haw-
finch, and then it was no use to anybody, for
the egregious boom had burst.
* * * *
“Catchpenny” : If there were such a thing
as a recognised universal language, it would
have come in handy at the Boy Scouts
jamboree in Cheshire (England), where lads
from every part of the world had to converse
with one another largely by signs. It was
thought that Esperanto might solve the
problem, being a language simple as to
grammar and pronunciation which should
appeal to boys, but its drawback is the
almost entire absence of idioms. Also, it
was found on investigation that only one
per cent, of the gathering knew anything
about it.
* * * *
“Lalage”: A question that will sooner or
later have to be determined is whether the
Melbourne Botanical Gardens (B. 28,/8/’29)
are an establishment for the study of bot-
any, a sort of acclimatisation farm, or a
delicious pleasure park for the comfort of
Melbourne people who cam step just outside
the city for half an hour. To an observer
the two functions seem quite separate, it
not contradictory. It may be possible some
day to have two distinct institutions —botani-
cal gardens, filled with labelled specimens
for students, and the present park for lay
people to dream in. The shades of Von
Mueller, Catani, Guilfoyle and the rest might
hover now over one place, now ever the
other.
* * * *
“Mundowie” : During the geological expe-
dition conducted by Douglas Mawson into
the central regions with a party of univer-
sity students, a wild donkey was shot in
the Flinders Range (S.A.), and the students
were regaled with donkey steak for break-
fast. This recalls an experience thereabouts
of years ago. The hardy little beasts were
considered of no value then, and donk-
brumbies were consuming stacks of good
cattle-feed. So a couple of frugal squatters
tried them as food to save cattle. The flesh
YOU COULDN’T FOOL HIM.
ANTIQUE DEALER : “This vase is over 8000 years old.”
NEWCOYNE : “Nonsense! Why, it’s only the year 1929 now.”
which was used generally for dingo baits,
was salted or* pickled, and parts _ot it
smoked. But prejudice was against it, the
animal being “too much like horse ’ for the
men in the huts, and after a very short
trial Donk went off the menu.
* * * *
“Stellsby” : Recent mention has been made
of men who refused stripes and “pips dur-
ing the war. I suspect that dislike of respon-
sibility wasn’t the only reason. I have been
told by British regulars that such promotion
not infrequently served as a speedy pass to
Eternity, because of the opportunities it gave
aggrieved Tommies of getting square with
an unpopular parade-ground superior. Ihe
realisation of similar dangers probably sup-
plies the explanation why many training-
camp “heads” never went to the front. In
this regard the sailor differs from the active-
service soldier; I never knew of even the
best-hated naval officer being pushed over-
board. *
“Cadonga” : There are many claimants for
the distinction of being the oldest pub in
England besides the Angel and Royal Hotel
in Grantham, Lincolnshire (B. 4/9/’29). In
St. Albans there is a tiny octagonal structure
called the Fighting Cocks which is reputed
to be not only the oldest tavern but
the oldest inhabited house in the kingdom.
It stands on the outskirts of a wood near St.
Albans Abbey. At the door of its diminutive
bar I have stood, pewter mug in hand, and
traced out the grass-grown walls of Verula-
mium, the earliest Roman fortified city in
Britain. An old signboard hanging over a
little rose garden boldly displays the inn s
proud boast.
* * * *
“Unity”: The curious assertion that a
gypsy had “cast a spell” over him (B.
4/9/’29) was also the excuse given by a
butcher near Liverpool (N.S.W.) in a recent
Sydney charge of stealing against a Romany
lass. The lady induced her dupe to let her
hold a 10-pound note in her hand whilst
she prognosticated, and when the prophesy-
ing was over the note was missing. The
disillusioned butcher immediately invoked
police aid, and demanded the return of the
money, which was duly handed over later by
the head of the gypsy party. “She said I
was going to have some worry.” said the
victim feelingly, “and s’truth. I did. It
wasn’t my note!”
MITT A VALLEY WEATHER
PROPHETS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The frost was heavy on the creeks and
pastures roundabout _ ,
When Murphy at the Farmers Rest spoke
with conviction stout:
•‘Don’t stock too heavy. Take my word
we’re bound to have a drought.
“'Twas just like this in nineteen-twelve. The
bloomin’ river-flats . 1V
Were like a skatin’-rink with ice; and all
the so-called fats . ,
Were poorer than a regiment o’ fiamin pawn-
shop rats.”
But Jones dissented: “All the week the ants
were on the go, ,
A-clusterin’ round the jam an meat an
tearin’ to an’ fro. ,
So give yer paddocks all they 11 hold, rscx
week brings rain. I know. ’
Then Higgs put in a word or two: “I ain t
lived all me days
With me eyes shut. I know a hit about the
weather’s ways—
There will be rain—an’ heavy ram— when
them there wattles blaze.”
The rain came sweeping from the west, and
soaked the flats that night.
The Mitta swelled its trickling stream and
roared with all its might.
And Jones was wrong, and Higgs was wrong
—and Murphy wasn’t right.
But at the Farmer’s Rest again, prophetic
spirit strong,
Together over three half-pints they chanted
as in song:
“She’s broke at last, just as I ve said to you
coves all along!”
VICTORIA.
P. T. F.


asdf
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD.
Total Assets exceed . £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
(2> In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sue . assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced nrouortionatelv
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost eveiy contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN'S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager,
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
, Ma / esty ; s “The Five-o’clock Girl”
S; “Lombardi, Ltd.”
TB Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “Show Boat”
“Journey’s End”
Tyou “Whoopee”
o 8 ■••• •.. Movies and Talkies
bTATH Movies and Talkies
Well, my dear (it is the Melbourne Office
hiapper writes this), I have had a night
out with the Intellectual Drama. My dear,
it just shows how little half of the world
knows how the other quarter amuses
itself. 1 mean, we girls are apt to have
altogether wrong ideas about the theatre
—good orchestras to help your young
man to break the ice, springs in the seats
and all that sort of thing. Well, they’re
ail wrong, so the gentleman who took me
told me. First of all, he said, there must be
no music because music is alien to the
Genius of the Intellectual Drama. So, it
seems, are seats with springs in them. But
cold feet are not. In fact, they are absolutely
necessary. Because, it seems, if you can
forget that the postal address of the wind
coming down the aisle is the Antarctic, and
that your legs have ceased to have anything
to do with you below the kneecaps, then
you are spiritually strong enough to be able
to concentrate on the Intellectual Drama.
And, believe me, it needs some concentration.
Well, Mr. Clewlow, of the Bepertory Soci-
ety, presented “The Race with the Shadow,”
a play in three acts and the same room by
Wilhelm von Scholz, English version by
Graham and Tristan Rawson, furniture
kindly lent by the Myer Emporium, Ltd.
Well, there is an author (Mr. Clewlow) who
is writing a book and he thinks it is his
own creation, but actually he is psvcliic, and
he is reading the mind of his wife (Athol
Fulford) without knowing it. Well, he
keeps writing his book and she keeps think-
ing about her former lover, Charles Langley,
and naturally the book turns out to be
the Complete History of their goings-on
together before she got married. Well, he
reads the first chapters to a literary society,
and, strange to say, the lover happens to
be there and is horrified to learn that all
GENEVIEVE McCORMACK, dancing in “Whoopee” at
Melbourne King’s.
has been revealed, and he calls on the author
to try and square things. Well, he learns
that the author isn’t even aware that the
characters in the book are his wife and her
lover. In fact, he refuses to believe it.
However, he agrees to go into the country
and finish the story, and whatever he writes
the lover goes and does, simply because of
the author’s psychic influence. Well, in
the next-to-the-last chapter he makes the
lover offer to run away with his wife, and
he does so. Then the author returns and
discovers everything. So he simply circum-
vents the disturber of his domestic bliss by
writing another chapter, in which the lover
does away with himself, and, of course, the
lover dutifully goes out in the park and
shoots himself. Then the curtain comes
down with the author calling his wife “Har-
lot!” and the wife calling her hubby
“Murderer!”
Well, my dear, it was all too unreal and
too solemn and wordy, I felt. The gentle-
man who took me asked me what I thought
of it. I said I thought it would make a
good 20-minute sketch at the Tivoli, and
why didn’t the actors act instead of walk
through their parts, and he said that acting
was old-fashioned nowadays and alien to
the genius, etc. Besides, if there was too
much acting there would be no time for talk-
ing, and talking was of the very genius, etc.,
etc. So I became a trifle tart, and asked
him whether remembering one’s lines was
also alien to the genius of the Intellectual
Drama, because, as far as I could see, a
better name for “The Race with the Shad-
ow” would have been “The Race with the
Prompter.” So he became annoyed and said
I was too narrow-minded and that listening
to great Drama brought out the best in one,
if one could only understand it; and he
was so occupied with thinking of higher
things that he sent me home in a tram
instead of a taxi.
Oh, I forgot to mention there was a cur-
tain-raiser called “St. Simeon Stylites,”
which was quite funny and really well
acted. Simeon was an old chap who lived
in the rain and the wind on top of a
column concentrating and refused to come
down and mingle with the world under any
circumstances. Probably he was training
to become a patron of the Intellectual
Drama. I thought Howard Smith was splen-
did as the saint, and so was Ruby May
as the lady who vamps him.
* * *
For the first time in Australia the Eng-
lish romantic ballad opera, “Hugh the
Drover” (book by Harold Child ; music by
Dr. R. Vaughan Williams), was produced
by Dr. Arundel Orchard and Sydney Con-
servatorialists on Saturday night. A light,
cheering confection, with color possibilities
rather ignored on this occasion, it is set in
the Cotswold Hills of West England ; but they
are a background only—neither literally nor
in dramatic flight are they surmounted. The
piece is essentially rustic, even sylvan, but
is not altogether devoid of dramatic
quality, though its performers might have
suggested to the casual that it was. Once
or twice the ensemble and the leads gave
out .suggestions of
stirred emotion,
but for the most
part they provided
a couple of hours
of melody, clearly
related to the rus-
tic setting, but not
impressively con-
cerned with the de-
velopment of the
theme. However,
the music,
sprinkled with
snatches of tradi-
tional tunes of
such things as
maying and filling
the belly with beer,
is very pleasing
and was nicely in-
terpreted.
The story is fair
opera quality. Time
“about 1812.” Act
I, a village fair,
cheap-jacks, prim-
rose-sellers, shell-
fish-sellers, toy-
lamb sellers. The
showman brings in
an effigy of “Bony-
party,” which is
duly reviled and
taken away for
later burning. Next
a ballad-seller sings
of getting married
on Tuesday, which
painfully reminds
the constable’s
daughter Mary of
her pending mar-
riage to John the
Butcher, a prospect
made none the less
cheerful by John’s
singing of the
throats he slits and
the lovely red blood
that flows. The constable is considerably
peeved that Mary should feel other than
happy about such a good match; and, left
alone with her aunt, Mary agrees that she
will marry John from a sense of duty, a
statement that is overheard by Hugh the
Drover, a stranger who is immediately
attracted by Mary, and vice versa, in the
traditional operatic manner. The constable
is shocked by the love-making, and about this
time the showman enters announcing that
John the Butcher will fight anything in
England for a purse of twenty pounds. Hugh
accepts the offer, and produces a bag with
fifty of the best in it, mentioning, however,
that he prefers to fight for the young lady.
They fight. It isn’t much of a fight as fights
go; but, though the John the Butcher of
this occasion suggests that he could fight
15 fights in one night and lose the lot,
and his opponent looks as if he might do
likewise with 16, the scrap is uncount-
able times more realistic and also exciting
than the cold, hollow, stiff sword-thrusting
of the Italian con-
vention. The But-
cher is knocked
cold, but recovers
in time to accuse
Hugh of being a
spy in the Frenchies'
pay, which is,
operatically enough,
sufficient evidence
to have the lad
heaved into the
stocks, where he is
discovered in Act
11, which, set in
the market-place,
opens just before
dawn. Mary enters
and, after releasing
Hugh, takes to the
stocks with him, re-
nounces the But-
cher and is re-
nounced in turn by
him and her father.
Soldiers then come
to take the spy, but
their sergeant re-
c og n i s e s Hugh,
whom he knows as
a decent chap. The
sergeant, insisting
on getting some
thing for his early
morning march,
conscripts John,
and the curtain
falls on the vil-
lagers singing fare-
well to Mary and
Hugh, who, turn-
ing down the con-
stable’s suggestion
that they should
marrv and settle
down, are goi n z
away into the hills
to share a roving
future together,
a pparently witliou i
benefit of clergy.
The mass singing was obliterated a couple
of times by some too enthusiastic violins,
but on the whole was most enjoyable. The
constable and' John were excellently por-
trayed by Raymond Beatty and Harold
Tollemache respectively. Nora Mack (Mary)
began unimpressively, but improved con-
siderably. Molyneux Phillips (Hugh) was
better for action than voice, which lacked
sincerity and was a bit cloudy. Victor
Evans was wholly satisfying as the sergeant.
¥ # #
The gentlemen responsible for the popular
concerts provided by the Melbourne Sym-
phony Orchestra are going round with the
pleased expressions of so many Tatt.’s win-
ners. They have just been fined £3 with
£2 ss. costs for overcrowding the Town
Hall.
V *
Another full-house greeted the University
Symphony Orchestra’s fifth “celebrity” con-
cert at Melbourne Town Hall on Saturday.
The Town Hall has heard some rows in its
day, but it has never listened to anything
in the way of unrelieved uproar to equal
“English Dance,” Percy Grainger’s latest
effort in more ambitious vein. The only piece
that can be compared with it is also Grain-
ger’s—“The Warriors,” conducted by him-
self at the Auditorium a few years ago.
The “Dance” is not a dance at all. It is,
according to its author, an attempt to
express the free, bold spirit of the English
nation, a “combination of athletic energy
and. rich warmth, certain bodily keenness and
rollicking abandonment”—the spirit, in
short, of the crowd at a Deague semi-final.
With the aid of the grand organ; over 100
performers and numerous instruments not
usually employed, Prof. Heinze gave the
work a rousing reception, though a series
of dynamite explosions would have done
equally as well. Present writer, however,
cherishes no animosity, and will continue
gratefully to remember his fellow-country-
man for his jolly little folk tunes.
V # V
A sign of. the times and the triumph of
the talkies is the fact that on Melbourne
Tivoli’s current bill figure half a dozen people
whose names a year of so ago were writ
in electrics on the fronts of the legitimate
theatres. Hugh Steyne, Deyland Hodgson,
Joe Brennan, Marie le Varre and Merna
Stewart are contributing to the merriment
of the latest programme of mixed vaudeville,
and, as a' result, the sketches they appear
in, though of the stereotyped sort, reach
an unusually high level of acting. Neva
Carr-Glyn is another clever histrion. Jane
Sels is a robustious damsel, who dances in
rooster, feathers and with remarkable light-
ness, Billy Elliott is a black-face comedian
who sings coon songs like a nigger, and Wal-
ter Richardson is a real negro who sings
spirituelles like a white man. Not as good
a programme as last week’s, but, neverthe-
less, of a high order.
# * *
At the Sydney house the laughable Jack
Edge and the fine Follies show.
ATHOL FULFORD, with Melbourne Repertorians in “The
Race with the Shadow,” at the Playhouse.
Two poorish pictures and a boring cam-
paign against the threatened amusement tax
rather mar Sydney State’s current bill. The
orchestra’s treatment of light opera melodies
from its pit, and subsequent aid in a colorful
original presentation on the stage, make
up a compensating entertainment rather
more necessary than usual. The uncanned
music is good throughout—even the mighty
howlitzer doesn’t make one want to reach
for a waddy.
“Alibi,” a first-class crime picture, has
begun a career at the Ilaymarket.
Jim Gerald’s last hours are passing at
Sydney Fullers’ to the sound of revelry.
The new vaudeville section contains an expo-
sition by Reg Hawthorne and his entourage
of the methods employed by “movie” pro-
ducers which, if true to life, accounts for
much. The revue, entitled the “Naughty
Husband,” is all that can be expected of it
by the most bigoted mother-in-law; Gerald
as the Benedict is a warning to all young
females contemplating matrimony.
# * *
Nat Madison has started a Royal season
in Adelaide with “No. 17,” the drama of an
empty house, in which crooks and detec-
tives are so mixed that anything that hap-
pens has to be . accepted—which is probably
author Farjeon’s idea. Ellis Irving as
a plucky butter-in and Madison as his comic
unwilling helper have most of the work, and
with Jarry, Hastings and Royde the co. is
more than good enough for the work it has
to do. At the Prince of Wales is “Seventh
Heaven,” already familiar on the screen.
Tom Sutterby and Dorothy Sykes score all
along as the lovers in the garret; but Darcy
Kelway, in Blunt’s old part of the cabman,
is really funny without ever descending to
farce.
* * *
“After Mother You’re First” is Nellie
Bramley’s latest at Brisbane Royal. It is
the tale of a family pet (Robert Ginns) who
marries over his head, and whose bride
(Miss Bramle.v) sets herself the job of
getting him off his ma’s apron strings. A
newcomer, Marie D’Alton, is the mother.
The dozen superb drawings which Norman
Lindsay did to illustrate “The Quarter-
master” have been reproduced in two-tone
ink on art paper, and are now on sale at The
Bulletin’s chief office, Sydney, and at all
branch offices. The complete set of one
dozen drawings costs only 25., and to put
country subscribers on the same footing as
those of the cities, the set will be sen! post-
free from the head office to any address in
Australasia.


M
A
~\y
/
*
)>-
\
a
O
v 2
x
t/
al lasi -
High Class MOVIES
in your own home at
A CHILD CAN
OPERATE IT!
Nothing could he more simple
than using the Duograph, which is
lit hy simply connecting to the
electric-light supply, the light itself
being a small globe of exceptional
brilliance. Anyone can master the
working of the Duograph in one
minute.
All Kinds of Films,
including favorite
“Stars.”
Hundreds of films are available
for shoioing with the Duograph.
They may be purchased outright
for 30/- per 100 ft. reel (equivalent
to 250 feet of standard theatre
film), or may be hired at 2/6 each
for a night or week-end. The list
of films, which is being constantly
added to, embraces every subject
and includes photoplays featuring
many of the favorite “Stars.”
All Home Movie
Films are Guaranteed
Non-inflammable.
The Duograph can also be used
for showing films made with a
home movie camera —personal
movies of your family and friends!
No longer expensive in first cost
or upkeep. Every family now
can enjoy the wonderful boon of
Home Movies!
Harringtons announce the re-
markable new Duograph Pro-
jector, sensationally priced at
PIO Complete with
1« Carrying Case
or
£3
Deposit, balance
over 10 months.
The Duograph is equal, techni-
cally and in the quality of its
results, to other projectors cost-
ing over fifty pounds. It is the
crowning work of E. William
Nelson, America’s most famous
movie engineer and designer of
the new natural color cinema.
The Duograph projects pictures
actually as clear, brilliant and
steady as those shown in luxury
movie theatres. It means a new
pleasure in thousands of homes
at a cost every home can afford.
In the quality of materials used
and in design, the Duograph is a
masterpiece of craftsmanship.
With ordinary care it should give
almost unlimited service.
The Duograph is now being dis-
played in our windows. Call in
and let us demonstrate it in our
home movie theatre, or
Write for full details by return mail to the nearest branch of
Harringtons Ltd.
NOTE: Because of differences in the Customs tariff, the prices mentioned in this advt. apply to Australia only,
and not to New Zealand.
SYDNEY: 386 George Street.
KATOOMBA: Katoomba Street.
NEWCASTLE: 84-86 Hunter
Street.
MELBOURNE: 266 Collins Street.
BRISBANE: 212-214 Queen
Street.
ADELAIDE: 10 Rundle Street.
HOBART: 33 Elizabeth Street.
AUCKLAND (N.Z.): 140 Queen
Street.
WELLINGTON (N.Z.): 42 Willis
Street.
fds
LTD
Photo, Cine and Radio
Merchants
(Est. 1889).


r°ne.° BRITISH
Du plicator
dfs
produces
actual
typewritten
letters in
unlimited
quantities.
21 HUNTFR ST.,
SYDNEY.
śdf
PIONEER
BELTING
Every inch of Pioneer Belting is
made under the watchful eye of an
expert, who is responsible for the
thoroughness of its manufacture.
By the very nature of the tests
imposed on it, Pioneer Belting assures
greater security against breakdown.
Durability and low maintenance cost,
over a period of 70 years, have won
for Pioneer Belting a most enviable
reputation.
PIONEER Leather Belting
MADE AND GUARANTEED BY
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
Pioneer House, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY (our only city address).
When you come to
SYDNEY
You will find at Usher’s every essen-
tial to the enjoyment of your visit.
Hotel service that is homelike,
cuisine of rare excel-
lence, and that
friendly hospitality
which you desire.
Telephone and run-
ning water in all
rooms. Book accom-
modation early.
Bed
and
Breakfast
Tariff
l{ desired
Special tariff or inclusive terras.
HOTEL
asd
OPP. THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
’Phone R6SXI (10 lines).
Cable & Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel,” Sydney,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Holden’s Motor Body Builders, Ltd.
Towards
June, Profits.* Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
19 20.. 43,881
1921.. 12,634 8 p.c. = 10,400 2,234 41,647
1922.. 34,755 10 „ „ 13,000 21,755 19,892
Reserves.
] 923. . 93,003 10 „ „ 13,000 80,003 60,111
19°4 116 036 8 p.c. 9,002 ]
1 • b J ) Did. 10 ~„ 19,500 | 80,908 . 141,019
Pref. issue exes., £7526 j
Dropped out of reserves, £14,322 126,697
1925.. 506 { ® 6 p }™’ 9iS 259 ’ 640
1926.. {gf } 81 > 338 340 ’ 978
Premiums on shares, £78,000.. 418,978
.1927..180,688 j 4>^ f- 1 88638 507,616
1928.. 135.186 j f - J } I>OG6 508,682
1929.. 170.793 { Ord f ’10 P ‘ C ' = 62’4oo } c4 > 393 573,075
net additions to depreciation and othei
reserves.
Quick to recognise that the motor trade had
entered upon a period of readjustment, the
management as promptly sought a way out
of the difficulties which threatened by
making yet another assault upon costs.
It was with this object in view that
the co.’s big plant at Woodville (S. A us. )
was reorganised and new machinery installed
at a cost of about £4(10,000 a year or so ago.
The result shows up in an encouraging spring
of £35,607 in the year’s final profit figure.
The management budgeted on a turnover
equal to the previous year’s, and sales ex-
ceeded it by over £173,000. Here are the
figures, with comparisons back to 1922:
1922.. £357,645 1926. . £2,251,281
1923.. 775,474 1927.. 2,831,442
1924.. 1,404,650 1928.. 2,150,277
1925.. 1,945,825 1929.. 2,324,020
Tlie increase helped, of course, but turnover
was only 1.9 times the average capital em-
ployed compared with 1.9, 4, 3.6, 4.3 and 4.5
back to 1924, so it is mainly lower produc-
tion costs for which shareholders can thank
those in control for the better showing.
After attending to the profs, the balance
of the year’s net earning was 20.3 p.c. on
average ordinary capital as against 15,
32.4 and 34 p.c. for the three preceding
years. Nevertheless five points were chipped
off . the ord. div., reducing it to 10 p.c.. and
leaving more than a third of the year’s
net earnings in the business. That is count-
ing as profit net additions to the various
reserves, which have grown in this way:—
1926 1928 1929
Buildings, plant, etc... £141,396 £263,005 £309,925
Taxation .. .. 60,145 60,008 74,422
General . . . . 50,000 135,550 135,550
Insurance .. .. 10,000 10,000 10,000
Bad and doubtful debts 5,000 10,000 10,000
Undivided profit .. 74,437 30,304 33,178
Total .. .. £340,978 £508,867 £573,075
Of the £257,792 of profit claimed by the
accounts £103,333 was transferred to the
reserve protecting buildings, plant, etc., the
net growth in which amounted to only £46,920.
The difference (£56,413), or part of it, was
apparently used to wipe out portion of the
loss on the sale of most of the co.’s old city
promises, in King William-street. These
were bought by Myers, the big Melbourne
drapers, who recently took over Marshall’s
business in Adelaide. Incidentally, this pro-
perty had been a drag ever since the
end of 1927, the plant having been
transferred to the works at Woodville, nearer
the port. Also the taxation reserve, to which
£45,000 was sent, was only £14.414 stronger
than at the previous balance. Obviously so
many factors enter into accounts such as
these that determination of how much of
each year’s earnings is net profit can at best
be only an estimate, the accuracy or other-
wise of which may take years to discover.
The various reserves probably represent accu-
mulations in excess of actual current require-
ments for depreciation, etc.
The outstanding features of the Holden
business have been the management’s vigorous
war upon production costs, the efficiency of
the control and careful finance. For a long-
time circumstances were kind, too. Year
after year the plant was called upon to do
more work that it could comfortably handle,
and some glittering results were 'achieved.
P»ut. for the most part, more was put aside
than was distributed, and at the close of
last accounts, after allowing for the final
div.. there was no less than £578,075 of
surplus earnings at work in the business to
assist paid capital, which was over eight
times greater than at June 30, 1923.
The remarkable expansion of the business
since 1923 and the present snug state of the
finances are obvious from this comparison of
balance-sheet figures:—
1923. 1927. 1928. 1929.
& £> £ £
Paid capital .. 130,000 824,000 1,174,000 1,174,000
Liabilities . . 164,607 491,722 241,493 75,489
Freeholds .. 146,825 475,046 575,063 504,329
Plaint and
machinery .. 53,779 416,605 785,125 754,016
Stocks, etc. .. 120,222 837,480 473,133 421,423
Book debts .. 38,228 133,973 152,707 172,759
Invest ments,
cash, etc. . . 2,164 9,184 6,133 23,237
During the year £166,004 was wiped off the
outside debt, which is lighter than at any
time since 1920. Trade brightened during
the latter half of the term, and book debts
were up £20,052; but stocks and works in
progress were £51,710 lighter—stocks being
reported “exceptionally clean.” Altogether
the year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£541,930, including stocks,
etc.), amounted to £151,450. On plant
£31,109 more was written off than was spent.
The drop of £70,734 in the book value of
freeholds reflects the sale already referred to.
As to the future, all that can be said defi-
nitely is that Holden’s enterprise hag uncom-
monly good foundations. Its house is m
order, and with its production and sales
organisations readjusted, and therefore more
efficient and less costly, results will largely
depend upon turnover. The co.’s chief con-
tract is with General Motors, Ltd., and
the bulk of the bodies turned out are for
Chevrolet cars. The outlook is brighter
than it was 12 months ago, and for the cur-
rent term the management has budgeted on a
turnover slightly in excess of last year’s.
It all gives the 10 p.c. div. a comfortable
look.
On the market the ords. are at 28s. 9d.
After allowing for the final div. the return
at that figure is 7.2 p.c. on. a 10 p.c. div.
basis. The backing amounts to 295. 2d. in
net tangibles. The A and B prefs.—there
are 300,000 of the former and 250,000 of the
latter —rank in the order stated, carry a
fixed cumulative 8 p.c., and have priority as
to capital. Last year’s profit was nearly
four times their combined annual require-
ments, and the net tangible backing figures
out at £5 18s. sd. and £5 15s. lid. respec-
tively. The A’s are priced around 235., and
the B’s around 215.; the return at those
figures is 6.9 p.c. and 7.6 p.c. respectively.
Australian Knitting Mills, Ltd.
Dividends. To Re-
June, Profits. (Prefs. and Ords.) serves. Reserves.
1918.. 14,771 124 p.c. = 7,500 7,271 21,654
1919, . 23,726 10 ~ ~ 12,091 11,635 ( no one
Written off, £4893 )
1920.. 33,999 15 p.c. =: 25,312 8,687 37,083
Co. reconstructed: £90,000 of
bonus shares issued (one in three).
Accounts for 1921 not available.
1922.. 57,513 12* p.c. = 41,203 16,310 6,421
1923.. 71,096 124 „ „ 46,500 24,596 31,017
1924.. 75,207 10 „ ~ 41,625 33,582 64,599
1925.. 39,838 8 „ „ 36,750 3,088 67,687
1926.. 64.981 10 „ ~ 50,000 14,981 82.66 S
1927.. 79,813 11 ~',. 55,000 24,813 107,481
1928.. 71,600 10 „ „ 50,000 21,600 129,081
1929.. 67,806 10 „ ~ 50,000 17,806 146,887
This is one of the most successful and also
one of the most enterprising of Australia’s
textile cos. Its-existence dates'back to 1904,
but until the war gave it and others in the
industry more adequate protection than poli-
ticians offered, progress was slow. The foun-
dation of the co.’s present success was laid
when the war-time shortage of yarns made
the establishment of a local spinning-mill
possible. That was in 1918, when the Yarra
Falls concern, a subsidiary in which a firm
of Melbourne wool-buyers and some British
textile people were also interested, was
formed to make wool-tops and yarns.
Since then A.K.M. lias never really looked
back; its paid capital grew from £BO,OOO
in 1918 to £500,000 in 1924, and during
the same period shareholders averaged over
12 p.c. A disastrous fire in 1924 seriously
disturbed earnings in tlie next year, but a
quick recovery was made. During the last
two years difficult trading conditions and
industrial troubles in other trades cut into
profit margins, and results have shown a
slight falling off, but indications are that
turnover has been steadily growing.
Last year gross profits (£61,894) fell
away £1638; also the distribution from
Yarra Falls (10 p.c.) was £2930 less at
£29,302. Exes. (£23,390) were cut back
only £774; thus the shrinkage in the year’s
net result (£67,806) was £3794, making it
..(> p.c. on averaee capital compared with
14.3, 16, 13 and 8.7 p.c. back to 1925. The
10 p.c. div. was still a very comfortable
matter, however, and the £17,806 of surplus
earnings which remained in tlie business car-
ried reserves to £146,887. Also, there is u
depreciation reserve (£88,163) which
receives attention before gross profits are
arrived at; last year the growth in this fund,
which is not included with the lay-by above,
was £20,409 as against £18,955 in the pre-
vious term.
Recently another subsidiary, Rayon Pty.,
Ltd., was fonned with a nominal capital
of £50,000 to manufacture ■ artificial silk
underwear. It put its first samples on the
market during the year, and prospects are
said to be most encouraging. Julius Kayser
and Co., manufacturers of silk and artificial
silk goods, of New York, are also interested
in this pup, thus ensuring that things are
right on the technical side. Exactly what
A.K.M.’s relations with the subsidiary
amount to is not disclosed. Shares in other
cos. moved up only £196 during the term.
Balance-sheet figures indicate preparation
for bigger output:—
1918. 1926. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital.. £60,000 £500,000 £500,000 £500,000
Liabilities . . 3,484 49,203 43,934 55,045
Property, plant
and machinery 28,914 202,182 273,965 293,897
Stocks .. 18,996 104,641 111,708 143,697
Book debts .. 18,896 66,837 52;5U 63,942
Cash, etc. . . 29,832 26,028 18,086 5,362
Shares in
associated cos. 2s il 293,020 318,500 318,696
Over the last two years the visible outlay
on plant, etc. (£147,145), which appears at
cost, amounted to £82,387, and £18,974 of
that was due to purchases last year. Free-
holds, etc., appear at £146,752, up £958
during the year. Stocks, up £31,989, are
higher than ever before. Book-debts are
£11,431 greater, and cash is down £13,181.
Shares in other cos. include 318,500 £1 shares
in Yarra Falls, paid to £293,020, and 25,480
fully-paid £1 shares in Austral Silk and
Cotton Mills, which was formed in 1927 and
commenced producing cotton-yarns in October
of that year; later looms for producing
cotton tweeds were installed. Incidentally,
the Yarra Falls Co. acquired the whole of
the 150,000 shares in Globe Worsted Mills,
Ltd., Marrickville, on a share-for-sliare basis
in May last.
The A.K.M. ords. have a net tangible
backing of 265., and the market prices them
at 345., at which figure the return is 5.9 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. There are 10.000
participating prefs., backed by net tangibles
amounting to £64 13s. 9d., but these shares
are seldom dealt in.
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.
Towards Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1919.. 26,216 7 p.e. = 14,403 11,813 36,722
1920.. 26,360 7 „ „ 14,403 11,957 48,679
1921.. 12,174 7 „ „ 14,578 46,275
1922.. 32,978 8 „ „ 16,860 16,118 62,393
1923. . 33,740 8 „ „ 16,860 16,880 79,273
1924.. 42,047 8 „ „ 17,372 24,675 103,948
1925.. 43,724 10 „ „ 30,007 13,717 117,665
1926.. 50,838 10 ~ ~ 31,613 19,225 136,890
1927.. 54,549 10 „ „ 34,427 20,122 157,012
Written off, £6OOO .. .. .. 151,012
1928.. 56,073 10 p.ct = 39,820 16,253 167,265
Reserves capitalised, £50,000 .. 117,265
1929.. 59,783 10 p.q. = 49,986 9,797 127,062
Though the visible prop for capital was none
too stout, the board of‘this co., which does
a large pastoral and pastoral finance busi-
ness in N. S. Wales and Queensland, handed
out £50,000 of reserves in a one-for-eight
bonus issue early in the last term. At the
same time a further £50,000 new £1 shares
w r ere issued at par, thus advancing paid
capital to a round half-million. The 10 p.c.
div. on these new shares called for an extra
£10,166, and it took 83.6 p.c. of the year’s
declared net earnings to pay the lot. Earn-
ings were shown after providing for bad and
doubtful debts, etc., and benefited from the
distribution recently made by Bawra, though
to what extent is not disclosed. The figure,
which was only £3710 better than the pre-
vious year’s profit, fell to 11.9 p.c. on average
capital compared with 14, 15.8, 15.8, 14.5
and 19.3 p.c. back to 1924, when wool fetched
record prices.
Here is a comparison of the co.’s sales of
wool and live stock:—
Wool
(bales). Sheep. Cattle.
1914 .. 101,579 307,813 18,764
1920 .. 137,258 321,140 15,357
1922 .. 163,530 347,825 25,881
1924 .. 132,693 293,012 24,585
1925 .. 117,550 232,501 32,676
1926 .. 179,002 366,643 26,671
1927 .. 188,075 441,919 30,168
1928 . . 175,682 352,199 19,869
1929 .. 189,190 341,399 30,714
Last year’s wool clip was heavier, but market
conditions were much sicker than the pre-
vious season’s. For the Dec. half of 1928 the
price of the staple was fairly firm ; then there
was a pronounced easing in values, and for
the 12 months to June 30 the average per
bale auctioned in Sydney (£2l 165.) was
about £3 10s. short of the previous year’s
average. Il'ence the State’s wool cheque
(£25,261,000) was £1,804,000 lighter. This
and weaker markets for sheep anil hides must
have affected Winchcombe Carson’s commis-
sion earnings, though cattle and produce
values were up. Incidentally, the co. also
gathers revenue from its property and
machinery sales, and rents.
For many years after the public became
interested, in 1910, progress was slow. It
was not until 1925 that the div. climbed
beyond 8 p.c.: meanwhile reserves £117,665
in excess of goodwill (£41,983) had accu-
mulated. (The ‘‘Wild Cat,” by the way, has
not treated goodwill as an asset.) Of recent
years the development has become more
marked, and with the assistance of a run of
good average seasons some very satisfactory
results have been -won. Shareholders hav
had a regular 10 p.c. for the last five years,
and over the same period nearly 30 p.c. <>.
the total net earnings has remained in the
business. Thus, after allowing for last year's
gift and for the writing off in the previous
term, each £1 of paid capital was assisted
by ss. Id. of surplus tangible assets at June
30.
To make advances with a book value
£190,416 in excess of shareholders’ capita!
and reserves combined, and to carry other
assets totalling £259,158, the. co. is neces-
sarily a heavy borrower. The position in
this and other respects is seen in the next
comparison of balance-sheet figures:—
1920. 1925. 1928. 1929.
Capital . . £205,755 £316,132 £414,018 £500,000
Liabilities . . 461,352 601,853 553,490 424,575
Freeholds . . 160,856 204,502 199,965 200,221
Plant, etc. . . 35,687 33,112 31,656 30,780
Advances, etc. 505,048 791,539 899,365 817,478
Investments and
cash . . 21,396 17,720 21,865 21,821
Consignments 7,353 .1,916 6,336
The fresh capital got in during the year,
and an extra £39,072 coming to sundry
creditors, together with £81,887 by which
advances, etc., were reduced, enabled the board
to wipe £167,987 off the overdraft, reducing
it to £46,687. Thus the more or less liquid
surplus (£421,060) was £51,404 stronger
than at the close of accounts in 1928. A
substantial part of the advances have, how-
ever, been made against wool, produce and
live stock; and these are fairly flexible.
There was still 13s. Od. of outside money ai
risk in the business for every £1 of tangible
assets owned by shareholders at June 30.
Much, _ therefore, depends upon whether the
provision for contingencies proves to be
adequate.
For the current season the clip promises
to be lighter, and the price of the staple
easier still. The scrip, which is popu-
lar on the market, is at 28s. Od. as against
31s. 6d. a year ago. The return at the
current figure is 7 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The Millaquin Sugar Co.
To Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1919.. 61,976 8 p.c. =: 40,000 21,976 116,170
1920.. 53,564 8 ~ „ 40,000 13,564 129,734
1921.. 29,022 8 „ „ 40,000 118,756
1922.. 64,025 8 „ „ 40,000 24,025 142,781
1923.. 71,333 12 „ „ 60,000 11,333 154,114
1924.. 48,249 8 ~ „ 40,000 8,249 162,363
1925.. 71,028 12 „ „ 60,000 11,026 173,389
1926.. 71,656 12 ~ ~ 60,000 11,656 185,045
1927.. 51,784 10 „ „ 50,000 1,784 186,829
1928.. 59,849 10 „ „ 50,000 9,849 196,678
1929.. 62,428 10 „ „ 50,000 12,428 209,106
“The season has been a fair one, and satis-
factory returns from our refinery have helped
profits,” is the chairman’s laconic comment
on the year’s work. The old refinery, to-
gether with large stocks of sugar and syrup,
was destroyed by fire shortly after the
close of accounts in 1927. The new one,
which took a little longer to complete than
was expected, set-to about the beginning
of August last year. The most modern
equipment was installed, which probably
means that costs were lightened. The board,
however, confessed to net profits only £2579
better than those of the previous year, though
that year got no benefit at all from the
refinery.
But conditions in the industry were not all
they might be. They seldom are. Returns to
the grower and miller are up and down
according to the excess of production over
local consumption and the level of prices
in the world’s sugar markets, where the
surplus has to be sold. Last year there
was a sharp drop in the world parity for
sugar, due to over-production, and since
about 40 p.c. of Australia’s record sugar out-
put of 522,000 tons was exported, the local
price for raws fell back to £l9 Bs., whereas
the fixed price for raws for Australian con-
sumption (1925-31) is £26 10s. Adjustments
are expected to raise the £l9 Bs. to about
£2O 155., but that is more than 255. below
the previous year’s figure. An increase
in the award price for cane bought
from farmers did not help profits either. On
the other hand, the co. increased its crush-
ing capacity by putting up a new mill at a
cost of about £20,000. But no hint is given
as to the tonnage put through.
The £62,428 claimed as the year’s net
profit was 12.4 p.c. on the half-million of
paid capital compared with 11.9, 10.2, 14.3,
14.2, 9.6 and 14.2 p.c. back to 1923, when
only 1.6 p.c. of the output was exported and
the average price of raws was £3O 6s. Sd.
per ton. But big changes affecting costs
have taken place in the industry since then,
so that shareholders have still averaged
a shade beyond 101 p.c. for the last
seven years. Moreover, comfortable margins
have remained for reserves, and people on the
register have seen their investment steadily
strengthened. Also the inner strength is
known to be substantial. Shortly after the
destruction of the old refinery the chairman


im
BOTTLED
GUARANTEED
E.sr£J sv
-vaAGILBEV
S£
<0
**ie*y
-----
£
ii|i GIN ENGLAND '
Omiity -CasHe OE Disijw
from on malted Corn and ree.hW
afW & A Gdbey* Dishllery Has Hie
delicate flavor of fhe Jumper b**ry
Meason - bbotHei contain approximately one gallon
Conitnis -NET. IPINT6SOZS
PHOOUCC OF CNGtAMO
SIS
Report from sir Charles a camera
E*'P'*siCtent rf/v/ P*- 0 /esSora£ !
,c «*,min ZLvJof ‘ b< ** ot^*!Z
I6B ' H * W stadr ot that article i« fhe r ( lrti“ y *
CasHe OE Gl N
d%f* 4 t** l P f °c®W **'
r 1 *" M ‘ *»Hr Lh.r. Ci'r. will be fcrr-d {„<*<«!*"'
«■'» <■<*• e.tr.rt of Jumper berries
SiW-dCHWIiS*' 01 **
3* E
_Z-
i3os
- -£
- - i
rtf#*
BY APPOINTMENT
TO H.M.THE KING
r
As
G,
<s*
°?> //
A.
* ?^ lA
'%3V
>;»'? *
/e c£s; c s^
* />
****§£>«&»,
&* V,. ' 4c vty Q
oc *>V "* <V£*
-> 6 «/>
DRI
(iIN
132


More Burdens
I to Carry
I 1
Many concerns are falling by
the way, broken by high costs
and oppressive taxes.
Here’s a big co. that will
not pay even its unsecured
creditors 5/- in the £. The
pref. shareholders will lose
every penny.
Are you a shareholder? Have
you an insurance policy? Do
companies owe you money ?
Don’t lose your capital. Keep
yourself informed.
The leading Australian
authority on all these matters
is
“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY.”
SEPT. NUMBER NOW ON SALE
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM,
22/6. From Newsagents, or Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison &Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.—Advt.
* * * *
It cannot be denied that Pioneer Wood Pipe has
magnificently carried out all the claims made for it.
On many important installations it has proved its
outstanding efficiency. As a conduit for any form
of liquid conveyance, Pioneer W ood Pipe has shown,
under actual service conditions, that it can stand
up to the hardest usage with absolutely satisfactory
results. Cheap in cost, non-corrosive and unaffected
by extremes of climate. Write for illustrated data
book—free on request. The Australian Wood Pipe
Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge),
Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at Footscray, Victoria.
—Advt.
* * ❖ $1
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.—Norman Hill & Co.,
Ltd., Cathcart House, Sydney, Rep. largest American
and European Smelters. Buyers Dirty Tin Ores,
Copper, Lead, Gold, Silver, Antimony, Wolfram,
Scheelite, Tantalite, Molybdenite, and other ores and
concentrates. Properties examined and reported on.
—Advt.
* * * *
n Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith k Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagb
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* .* * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed; Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane, in
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, i^oree. — Advt.
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co Ltd
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. R e id and Sons!
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt
Get your “i
BeramA
PAINTS and
VARNISHES
from
AGENTS
EVERYWHERE.
THEY "KEEP ON KEEPING ON!
O
YG
boord&son
FINEST DRY GIF
& OLD TOM
wlft & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents. 26/30 Clarence St.. Sydney"!!
DT
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office i Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-Glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone,
etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
' W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
announced that plant had been liberally
written down for years past, and that a
revaluation of the asset had disclosed a
large surplus.
_Here is as much as balance-sheet figures
tell *—
_ 1923. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital .. .. £500,000 £500,000 £500,000
Sundry creditors .. 123,475 78,632 116,010
Freeholds, refinery, etc. 335,246 400,771 415,427
Plantation, etc. .. 72,512 68,828 68,505
Railways and tramways 48,271 44,181 43,074
Stocks 144,122 81,773 90,310
Book debts .. .. 43,520 16,536 17,837
Investments .. .. 65,374 197,198 171,699
Cash 108,544 48,264
In addition to the outlay on the new crush-
ing mill already referred to, the final payment
on the new refinery—it cost less than was
expected—was made during the year. But
only £14,656 more was added to the book
value of freeholds, refinery and mills. Alto-
gether £13,226 more was spent on fixed
assets than was written off. To do
it, liquids, chiefly investments, were drawn
upon. And then the net shrinkage in the
more or less liquid surplus (£212,100, in-
cluding stocks and investments) was only
£4775. Amongst other things investments
include £29,625 of public securities and a
holding in the Bundaberg Distillery.
For the current sugar season Australian
production is estimated at 517,000 tons,
about 40 p.c. of which will be exported, pro-
bably at a lower average price than last
year. This and frosts in the Bundaberg dis-
trict have taken some of the ginger out
of the market —it paid 82s. for the scrip in
February, shortened its offer to 255. 6d. in
August, but later lengthened it to 28s At
28s. the return is 7.1 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. The net tangible backing amounts
to 2Ss. 4d., of which 21s. Id. is represented
by fi.'ced assets and the balance by surplus
liquids.
The National Bank of New Zealand.
w Net To Re- Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves,
£ £ £ £
1918.. 115,296 13 p.c. = 97,500 17,796 775,550
1910.. 136,882 13 „ „ 97,500 39,382 814,932
Premiums on new shares, £250,000.. 1,064,932
1920.. 156,299 14 p.c. = 131,658 24,641 1,089,573
1921.. 206,321 14 ~,, 140,000 66,321 1,155,894
1922.. 176,226 14 ~,,140,000 36,226 1,192,120
Premiums on new shares, £200,000.. 1,392,120.
1923.. 186,147 14 p.c. = 172,700 13,447 1,405,567
1924.. 194,991 14 ~,,175,000 19,991 1,425,558
Premiums on new shares, £200,000.. 1,625,558
1925.. 230,827 14 p.c. = 208,687 22,140 1,647.698
Premiums on new shares, £500,000.. 2,147,698
1926.. 303.087 14 p.c. = 277,741 25,346 2,173,044
1927.. 282,725 14 „ „ 280,000 2,725 2,175,769
1928.. 269,803 14 „ „ 280,000 2,165,572
1929 .. 269,582 14 „ „ 280,000 2,155,154
Again reserves were drawn upon to pay
shareholders their 14 p.c. (2 p.c. of it is still
labelled bonus), leaving the pile visibly
£20,615 short of what it was two years ago.
But too much notice need not be taken of
that. The chairman puts it this way: “I
remember on one occasion an old shareholder
stated that in handing you a bonus we were
distributing too large a proportion of our
profits. As I have previously stated, this
matter has received our very careful atten-
tion, and you may be sure that if we
thought it necessary we would not hesitate to
withhold it.” In other words, the board
took advantage of times when trade was brisk
and profits were large to make liberal pro-
vision for contingencies.
At the close of last accounts the co. had
an extra £1,434,113 out in advances, liquids
Were down £1,640,198, and the drop in de-
posits was £1,520,996. Still gross profits
were written only £9374 better than the pre-
vious year’s, but that was after provision
had been made for bad and doubtful debts,
etc. Here are p. and 1. figures covering the
last five years:—
To Pension
and Gra-
Gross Written Off tuities
March, Profits. Exes. Premises, etc. Fund.
1925.. £631,362 £351,536 £40,000 £9,000
1926.. 687,124 354,037 20,000 10,000
1927.. 692,268 379,993 20,000 9 500
1928.. 684,341 394,538 10,000 10,000
1929.. 693,715 403,133 10,000 11,000
Profits in the introductory table are what
remain of each year’s declared net earnings
after deducting contributions to the pen-
sions and gratuity funds and the amounts
written off premises. These latter sums
may be really inner reserves; no less than
£405,000 has been thus dealt with during
the last decade.
The business bounded ahead after the
war; £1,250,000 of fresh capital was gathered
during the three years to the close of
accounts in 1926. It brought with it
£1,150,000 of share premiums, and made
paid capital £2,000,000, at which figure it
has since remained. So the 14 p.c. which
has been handed to shareholders for the last
10 years is really much less than that. At
March 31 reserves were £155,154 in excess
of paid capital, so, to pay 14 p.c. on the
latter, the two combined had to net only
6.7 p.c. And that should not be a difficult
matter; the holdings of Government securi-
ties alone stood in the books at £2,229,749,
or £74,595 greater than the amount of the
reserves.
To pay off a lot of its long-dated London
deposits the co. drew upon liquids last year.
That and other things are visible in this
comparison of balance-sheet figures:—
1919. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital .. £750,000 £2,000,000 £ 2,000,000
Notes .. .. 1,177,271 1,173,483 1,297,385
Bills .. .. 951,394 1,384,646 2,618,830
Deposits .. .. 6,481,558 12,088,015 10,567,019
Liquid assets .. 4,175,958 8,221,384 6,581,186
Advances .. 5,919,219 10,188,180 11,622,293
Premises .. 139,977 572,152 605,909
Nevertheless the position was very strong.
At March 31 depositors and others could
see 9s. Id. of every £1 coming to them in
liquids. Also the bank was holding only
£3 9s. Bd. of the public’s money for every
£1 of its own funds.
The share market, impressed by the co.’s
strength and its continued progress, prices
the £7 10s. shares paid to £2 10s. at £7 3s. 3d.
as against £6 17s. 6d. a year ago. The
return at the current price is 4.9 p.c. on a
14 p.c. div. basis. The visible backing
amounts to £5 3s. lid. per share in net
tangibles.
George A. Bond & Co. (in Liquidation).
Last week the Court ordered George Alan
Bond, formerly governing- and managing-
director of George A. Bond and Co., Ltd., to
pay the liquidators £89,893. This sum was
made up of £41,267, refund of director’s
fees; £2534, money paid to his father as a
gratuity; £35,708, business commissions and
discounts in connection with the New Bruns-
wick co.; £2605, travelling expenses; £77SO,
interest at 5 p.c.
When the co. was formed in 1920 share-
holders fixed the governing-director’s re-
muneration. at £4BOO p.a., but in 1922 a
resolution was passed leaving the matter
ot remuneration to Mr. Bond’s own dis-
cretion. He decided that £lO,OOO p.a. was
not too much. But the co.’s articles appar-
ently required the amount to be fixed by
shareholders, so the 1922 resolution was not
w.hat it looked. For a long time the co.
paid Mr. Bond’s father £7 per week, appar-
ently for advice given in the family circle.
Further, Mr. Bond drew £lO per week as
travelling expenses, whether the actual cost
came, to that or not. Also, he received sub-
stantial sums as commissions, etc., on trans-
actions between the co. here and his firm in
New Brunswick, Canada. He was ordered
to refund commission on the sale price of
goods, and to account for any rebates or
other advantages received from the American
sellers, and which were not deducted from
the sale price noted on the invoices.
All this is very satisfactory as far as it
goes, no doubt. But what were the directors
of the co. doing through, all these years? It
is mighty poor comfort for shareholders if
protection comes to them only through a
liquidator.
Stabilisation of Lead.
The idea behind the recent decision of the
most important lead-producers in the U.S.A.,
Canada, Mexico, Burmah and Australia to
co-operate in regulating production in ac-
cordance with consumption is to stabilise
price at about £23 per ton. At this ’figure
the Barrier cos. should be able to win
food profits. For the year to June 30,
1928, lead averaged £2l 19s. 6d., and the
North and South cos. paid divs. of 40 p.c
and 221 p.c. respectively. Of late, produc-
tion- has been on the increase, due partly
to improved recoveries, partly to a strength-
’l] price. For July lead averaged
±22 16s. lid.; recent quotes were £23 12s. 6d.
During the next couple of years several new
producers should be on the market, but
what effect, if any, this will have remains
to be seen.
Encouraged by prospects of steadier prices
for metals, and of worth-while savings in
costs, the sharemarket has gradually length-
ened its offer for the scrip of the chief
producing cos. at the Barrier.
To help feed the goat, that is born every
minute a goldmine in. New Guinea is being
floated in Sydney every week. Two years
ago the promoters mostly lurked in public-
house bars and pursued likely-looking
buyers into dark lanes. Now Pitt-street
resounds to the music of their trumpeting
and the local capricornians butt each other
aside in the rush to get on the list of
Bulswool, No Liability, or a kindred show
situated in the imagination of some renow-
ned mining engineer or other who learned
all about gold-digging in a long apprentice-
ship on N.S.W!. and North Queensland
country racecourses and show-grounds. It
is something of a relief to find that the
more reputable Sydney firms which toy with
scrip have summed up the situation. One
big concern, in the course of a very instruc-
tive review of goldmining in Papua and
New Guinea, winds up with a sardonic
touch Acknowledging that a 12-year-old
book by Sir Hubert Murray is the source
ot most of its inspiration, it adds: “We
found this book quite as reliable as most
of the more recent publications, not even
excepting prospectuses received by us a
minute or so back.” As a matter of fact, in
this Column’s opinion, there are only about
two goldmining shows in New Guinea and
Papua likely to show substantial profit.
* * * *
A big smelting merger in London with
strong interest for Australia is the recently
announced Imperial Smelting Corp. with a
nominal capital of £7,500,000. This will take
over the National Smelting Co. by a special
arrangement with the shareholders of the
latter, and additional capital is to be raised.
Among the large interests taking part in the
scheme are Burma Corporation, South and
North, Broken Hill, Electrolytic Zinc, Zinc
Corporation and British Metal Corporation.
The new co.’s activities will cover a very
wide field. In addition to mining and metal
treatment in all phases, production and mar-
keting of fertilisers, acids, chemicals and
other by-products will be undertaken. Special
provision has been made for the exclusion
of non-British interests.
* * * *
Directors of Wiluna (W.A.) announce in
London that in view of recent important
developments in metallurgy, it has been, de-
cided to wait a while before calling share-
holders together. Something is also said
about the work that is being done to prepare
for production on a big scale, and about the
certainty of an improved recovery from the
mine’s east or main ore body at less cost
than previously. The board is also now
confident that a high gold recovery can be
relied upon from the west lode, which till
lately was regarded as doubtful, owing to
the presence of antimony. Recent research
work is alleged to have made a difference.
* * * $
Radio, near Southern Gross (W.A.), has
just had another small but satisfactory clean
up from 52 tons. The show lias been nibbled
at in this way for 10 years or more, and the
owners, Barr and Clements, have enjoyed
a royal time. The Radio is only 10 miles
from the point where gold was first found
on the Eastern goldfields of W.A., but it
was more difficult to locate than the earlier
finds.
* * * *
Boulder Perseverance development at the
1600 ft. level continues satisfactory, and Kal-
goorlie speculators have been buying Per-
severance shares heavily during the past few
weeks. The improved prospects of the mine
and the chance of getting assistance from
the State Government to instal a more
economical treatment process make the out-
look brighter. Capital is in 2,495,866 shilling
shares.
* * * *
Some Westralian prospectors find mining
fever hard to shake off. Poison Bros., with
a small plant, have been pegging away at
Parker’s Range, 40 miles south of Southern
Cross, for quarter of a century. Their last
clean up was 20 tons for 18oz. At Marvel
Loch, 15 miles north of Poison’s, George
Howlett has been crushing for the public
and himself for over 20 years.
* . * * *
Westralian supporters of Mararoa got a
surprise oh receipt of advice that London
was not proceeding with the option. There
is believed to be a lot ini the old mine yet,
and worse might be done than to equip
and work it with Australian cash. But
meanwhile W. A. holders feel they are up
against a toughish proposition.
* * * *
Further boring on the Big Bell, near Cue
(W.A.), has disclosed results good enough
to encourage capital being put into the
show. Big Bell is one of the giant West-
ralian ore deposits.
* * * *
An unprecedented number of new Malayan
dredges controlled by Australian, cos. should
be in full swing by the end of this year.
Among recent starters are Ratrut Basin’s
No. 2, Katu, Renong Consolidated, Rawang
Concessions, Kampong Lanjut and Muang
Tin, Peninsula Tin has had a preliminary
dig, and definite results may be expected in
a month or so. Austral Malay has three new-
comers just lining up to the barrier. The
Kampong Kamunting No. 1 dredge is an old
performer, but will start on the new pro-
perty at Karangan, where it is being re-
erected, by the middle of the month.
Puehong’s new dredge is now almost ready,
and here the wheels should begin to turn by
the beginning of October. Pungah is yet
another of Austral Malay’s new ventures,
and is expected to begin digging early in.
November. Of the four shows at work under
Austral Malay’s banner, two, Kampong
Kamunting and Thabawleik, have been aver-
aging well over the pound for some time.
Asam and Ulu Yam have lost a little of their
dash, but are still earning their keep and a
bit over, the former especially.
❖ sjs % $
Tin Beiitong, one of early
ventures in Malaya—it was formed in Mel-
bourne in 1914—is feeling the weight of
years. At the annual meeting the other
day chairman R. F. Walker confessed to
shrunk profits. Of the reduction, 66 p.c.
was due to the heavy drop in tin prices, and
the balance to a falling off in recoveries.
Nevertheless, the mine has been good to
shareholders, having paid since the dredg ■
was transferred to the present site 31s. per
share, on the 100,000 f.p. fl shares. New
areas are being hunted for, but so faT , noth-
ing worth while has been discovered. Still,
Bentong is far from done: recoveries for
months past have averaged well over the
ilb. With tin at £2OO, which , equals near
to Is. Ojd., there should be a profit, though
working costs for this property are not
published.
* * * *
Changkat, the Alluvial Tin subsidiary, is
to increase nominal capital from £130,000 to
£300,000. The co. has purchased an adjoin-
ing area for £40,000. To finance the deal
and equip the property with a dredge to dig
to a depth of 100 ft. 130,000 of the new
shares are to be issued. Changkat’s
original area, on which digging began over
two years ago, was estimated to contain 30
million c.y. of dredging material. Recoveries,
which so far have .been well up to estimates,
were 75 tons t.o. from 138,000 c.y. last
month, an average of 1.211 b. The new area
is rated as containing 28 million c.y.; ne
estimate of values is yet available.


WINTER SPORTS IN SWITZERLAND
Travel to Europe for the Swiss Winter Sports and the Riviera Season by the "Otranto," "Orford,"
“Oronsay,” “Orontes” or “Orama”—the five 20,000-ton steamers of the Orient Line which leave
Australia in November, December and January,


MEET AUSTRALIA’S MOST POPULAR YOUNG MAN AT MICK SIMMONS!
DON BRADMAN
(It Your Service
In adding the services of the brilliant Don Bradman to the
Cricket Section, Mick Simmons feel that the action was but aju
keeping with the firm’s policy of ’‘first and foremost in all things fpvrtai Q
Sport.” Cricketers and Clubs are invited to avail themselves of his services
in the selection of materials or his advice on any matter pertaining to trie tes.
(Xnd now. . .
Mick Simmons
herald the coming of
King Cricket
The 1929-30 Season foreshadows to be the greatest in the history of Australian
Cricket. With this as an added incentive to worthily uphold their position of
leadership in the world of sport, Mick Simmons announce the most brilliant
collection of Cricket Bats and Material yet displayed in Australia. Every Bat
manufacturer of note is represented, and special attention is drawn to the
“Bradman” Series by Wm. Sykes, Ltd., England, which is quite frankly
believed to represent the finest examples of cricket bat craftsmanship ever intro-
duced into this country. Further, it is only the fact of Mick Simmons’ huge
turnover that allows the prices of material in many instances to be lower than
those prevailing elsewhere.
SPECIALLY SELECTED BATS
from the world's foremost makers
h
!■
horbury
LONDON A
TEST
TEST
s2} fs£
PHI
11/
AUTOGRAPH BATS
By Wm. Sykes, Ltd., Horbury, England.
(Makers of Test Cricket Bats for 55 years.)
Made from the finest grade Close Bark Willow, cut from
selected trees, matured in scientifically built seasoning sheds.
Each blade expert hand-hammered and face-compressed.
Handles are from finest-quality Sarawak Cane, including
Sykes’ well-known treble shock-absorbing spring.
Same Quality Handle in all Bats. Every Bat has Rubber
Grip on Handle.
All Bats personally autographed by Don Bradman.
The Beautiful “D. 8.” Test Quality Bat,
4 Crown (as illustrated), 57 7 6.
Other “D. 8.” Bats are :
3 Crown, 50 7 -; 2 Crown, 42 7 6; Club, 32'6.
“Perla” Double-Wicket Coir Mats
S.S. Quality, Leather-bound, colour green, two pieces, 6ft
wide, full size, metal eyelets and spikes
Heavy, £7/10/-. Extra Heavy, £B/10/-
Leather Cricket Balls
(All Match Weight, viz., 5 V 2 0z.)
DUKES’ CERT SPECIAL MATCH ' 15/-
(The “Cert'’ is specially designed for Australian wickets-)
DUKES’ SPECIAL CLUB MATCH 12/6
> IKES’ SPECIAL COUNTY 17/6
SPECIAL PRACTICE, six-stitcher .... 6/6
CROWN MATCH, Superior, practice 10/6
WISDEN’S MATCH 14/-
Mick Simmons’ New Cricket Catalogue, the most complete and,
comprehensive of its kind, should, be in the hands of every
Club Secretary and Player—Post Free
STUART SURRIDGE
Oval Driver 19/6
Cert Driver 257-
Daisy Cutter 30/-
Velocity Driver 37/6
Lightning Driver 35/ -
Rapid Driver, specially selected 397-
Rapid Driver, X special selected 477-
Rapid Driver, “The Perfect’' .. 54/-
Invincible Driver 457-
SUMMERS BROWN .
Force, IX 30/-
Force, 2X 357-
Force, 3X 407-
Force, 4X 47/6
DUKE AND SONS
County Driver, Selected, with
grip 30/-
County Driver, spec, sel., with
grip 357-
Warren Bardsley Autograph, 1
Crown 397-
Warren Bardsley Autograph, 2
Crown 40/
M.S. SPECIAL
All Cane, single rubber, spec.
practice 13/9
Tornadic Driver, treble rubber,
with grip 21/-
GUNN AND MOORE’S
Cannon 33/6
Autograph, special . 42/6
Autograph, X special ... ... 48/6
Autograph, Star . ' 50/-
Interstate, special 42/-
Interstate, X special 50/-
WISDEN’S
Exceller, superior 37/6
Exceller, selected 42/6
Exceller, X special 45/-
Exceller, de luxe 55/-
SHAW & SHREWSBURY’S—
Autograph 45/*
Australian Test 50/-
(And many other famous makes.)
Men’s Gauntlets
“THE SUPER KEEPER,” selected tan leather, padded,
cupped palm, with back strap, rubber faced, thumb and
finger cups, tape finger support, heavy padded wrist
guards. Pair 35/-
M.S. LITTLE GIANT, selected leather, padded finger-tips,
padded rubber palms, back strap. Pair 21/-
M.S. GIANT, selected leather, extra large .... .. 24/-
GOLD GAPE, superior, padded and ventilated. Pair 13/6
Men’s Batting Gloves
“COUNTY SPECIAL,” fabric, pull-on glove, with spiked
rubber protection Pair •
“DUROFLEX,,’ pull-on glove, with sponge rubber pro
tection. Pair
PATENT SURREY SHIELD, red rubber. Pair . .. 6/6
“DON BRADMAN” LEG GUARDS
‘DON BRADMAN” INTERNATIONAL PAD, white buck-
skin, 3 rolls over knee, side protectors, and three
cross pads inside. Pair .. 42/-
“DON BRADMAN” PAD, white canvas, shaped calf pro-
tector, 3 rolls over knee, with extra shin padding.
Pair 23/6
OTHER PADS AT 11/6, 14/6, AND UPWARDS.
Carriage paid on all Cricket Requisites except Cricket Mats, which are sent carriage free
in NJS.W-, and half-freight to Interstate Ports or Railway Stations.
Mick Simmons £m
HEADQUARTERS: 720 H AYMARKET, SYDNEY.
“Acknowledged Leaders in Outdoor Sport and Home Entertainment ”
fc. sk. *
J.
EVERY CRICKETER SHOULD ATTEND DON BRADMAN’S LUNCH-HOUR TALKS!


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lie Pisk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
23.
POUNDS OF PENNIES
“Take care of the pennies, and the pounds will take care
themselves.” There is more in that old saying than perhaps
you realise. Pennies are more easily come by than pounds;
they are more easily saved, for a penn orth of self-denial is
easier to practise than a pound s worth at a time.
Think it out —better still, try it out —the steady, sincere saving
of the small coins; the practical appreciation of the small
things and their cumulative value.
Turn your pennies into pounds by the aid of a Commonwealth
Savings Account and the 4 per cent, per annum interest it pays.
iUbmuionwcaltb Savings Bank of Australia
( Guaranteed, by the Commonwealth Government).
Build With
WUNDERLICH
Materials
Guard against faulty work —*
obtain the highest value by in*
sisting on Wunderlich Building
Materials, which include:—
Art Metal Ceilings, Terra Cotta
Roofing Tiles, Asbestos Cement
Building Sheets.
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
A BORIGIN
ALITIES
“F.”: Flinty was the meanest old boy
in our town. When he made a present to
me I was so surprised that I omitted to
look for the catch. Snowy was the present.
He was an old draught horse, all head and
no tail; a corrugated barrel of bones on four
pegs. “He only wants a bit of groomin and
feedin’ and he’ll return you a clear five quid,
said Flinty. Snowy was resting against
the fence at the time. So I let him lean on
me while I took him home. I whistled
quietly to myself as I rubbed him down, and
I thought about him (and the fiver) all night.
Inside a month I could polish him like the
silver on the sideboard. But in the morning,
when I hurried out to see how he had
slept, I found him with his toes up. You
miserable cow, Flinty!” I roared at our next
meeting. “It cost me ten bob to bury the
brute.” “That was cheap,” replied £ linty;
“dirt cheap. I was reckonin’ on a quid.
“Harvib”: Young Bill was juggling a
plough among the stumps' in the new cultiva-
tion when McGrath climbed over the fence.
“What’s yer dad goin’ to plant in there.
be inquired. “Aspros,” replied William
promptly pulling up his horses with a jerk.
“Every time the old man looks at it he gets
a headache.” ... #
“Sixty Seven” : The ancient and honorable
custom of thumping a bride over the ear
and taking her off to his hut is to all
purposes banished for ever from New
Guinea. The Wollumi and Combi, two
tribes of Central New Britain, have
no; marriageable gins under £5O a head.
Lovelorn swains not having the tull
purchase money or goods of a kind
pay a deposit on their choice to the
chief of the' tribe. After half the, pur-
chase money is paid the boy is allowed
to spend a holiday with the lady, blit
lie must return her to her fathers
household. Most of these hire-purchase
marriages' are completed in from two
to five years, but it’s tough luck ou
ihe coon who has to forfeit by
default.
“Murrungurry”: Though the blacks ot
XS W and Queensland at times eat cater-
pillars, white ants and other uncommon pro-
vender, I have never known them to tackle
frogs or snails. There are huge native
snails of various colors in the big scrubs,
and after a burn-off the ground, is strewn
with the whitened shells. They look better
than caterpillars, but Binghi didn t touch
them. In the Kimberley (-W.A.) district,
however, toasted frogs are considered a
delicacy When the season is favorable
there is generally a sort of frog festival, in
which the station blacks join at the begin-
ning of a big cattle muster. For days the
'■ins collect frogs, which are toasted foi
FAMILIAR PHRASES.
You know, of course, the origin of “Up, Guards, and at ’em” ; also “England Expects
Every Man This Day Will Do His Duty.” Now (if you've looked at Scorfield's
drawing ) you know the origin also of “Hop It While the Goings Good."
the men’s breakfast. Even when there is
plenty of game and other food to be had,
the frog festival is held ; it includes a cor-
roboree, in which there is.much leap-frogging
and croaking. Binsrhi seems to have got
the idea from the frogs’ jubilee after the
swamps have been filled.
"* * * *
“Pfella”: For over two years I’d had
Sammy, my black-tracker, riding about the
vast nor’-west of W.A., but not once in his
home tribal area until a saddle-stealing case
brought us to the scene of his youth, men
I learned that my shadow had a woman
of his own, and, of course, he went to Vi.s r
her. When he returned to camp he brought
with him another buck, who showed signs
of having been severely mauled. Anybody
knowing Sammy could see Sammy s nst writ-
THE HOMING DOVE.
“I can’t (hic) hear a sound. She mush be fasht ashleep."
ten all over the other bloke- My , n *f
hadn't escaped scot-free—a little caked blood
on his cheek, a swollen eye and a .torn
shirt-sleeve. “I bin 'rest this pfella, he
said simply. I waited for more. 1 bin
catch this pfella with my gin,’ he went on.
“What are you going to charge, him with.
I grinned. “I bin charged him with fightiny,
came the sober answer. I burst out leagu-
ing. “By jink!” exclaimed Sammy indig-
nantly, “you bin think I not get hurt, boss r
Book at mine clothes bin all torn, look at
this pfella cut here, an’, by Dink, look at
this eye! It’s black!”
* * *
“Pick” : In decorating the danceways be-
neath their bracken and grass arches, bower-
birds show a decided preference for things
blue in color. On Mt. Dromedary (N.S.VV.
South Coast), where the bowers are plenti-
ful, in each the treasures collected are mainly
bluish pebbles and articles of blue materials.
Discarded cartridge-shells, if blue are imme-
diately gathered up by the birds, but the red,
green or brown cases are passed over. Second
in fancy with the feathered curio collectors
arc things that shine. In one bower were
found some shillings, in another a silver
spoon. Scraps of tin, glass or white metal
are common in most of them. r lhe birds play
with their collections, and daily transfer the
articles from place to place in their bowers.
* * * *
“Eureka” : Kangaroos can see just as well
at night as human beings can, and rarely
fall victims to fences unless they have been
newly erected. The first night after a fence
has been erected one is likely to find not
only kangaroos but wallabies, foxes, dingoes
and emus hung up in it. The animals get
so used to the part of the bush they
frequent that they move about carelessly just
as a human being does about hi,s own haunts
Let someone put a wire across a gate that
you are in the habit of entering frequently,
and it’s ten to one you will run into the
wire, not because it is invisible, but because
you didn’t expect it to be there. It is the
same with the animals. On Southern Monaro
hundreds of kangaroos, wallabies, dingoes and
emus got tangled up in the wire fences when
they were first introduced to that part of the
country in place of the stone, dog-leg, pack
and post-and-rail fences, but a kangaroo
tangled in one of these fences now is as rare
as bushfires on Kosciusko in winter.
* % * *
“Molokihi”: The appearance of an albino
native amongst my Papuan plantation work-
ers has always filled me with a sense of his
nakedness as compared with his equally un-
clothed compatriots. Long as I have been
in Papua, this feeling of repugnance lias
never failed to manifest itself in the presence
of any of these unfortunates. I imagine the
effect is increased by the weak eyes and
boiled-in-soda hair which invariably acconi-
pany the phenomena. So far as their social
standing is concerned they must be very
lonely individuals, almost as solitary _as the
half-castes. As my interpreter explained to
me rather tactlessly I thought at the timc»
“All girl no want that one, he too much all
same dim-dim [white man].
“Historicus”: Captain Cook’s first ac-
quaintance with the boomerang antedated
his landing in Australia. On the island ot
Terra del Fuego, on January 10, l<bd,
two Indians, it is recorded, "threw away
a small stick [bumerang], which they had
before in their hands ; this they did in such
a direction that the stick flew both from
themselves and the strangers, which they
meant as a token of peace. So it would
appear that the word “boomerang isn t
abo. lingo, but of South American extrac-
tion. ... ..
!jS » *
“Guidie”: Towards the end of last sum-
mer I learnt my lesson on the wisdom of
leaving sleeping dogs lie. I saw an excep-
tionally big lizard sunning on the road ahead.
Stopping abreast of him, I was not satisfied
with a close view, but must poke him into
action with a stick. He disappeared under
my motor-cycle outfit, and investigation dis-
closed the blighter in my chain-case. jVo
amount of additional poking would dislodge
him. My lesson was learnt by the time I
had removed one foot-rest, clutch-rod and
chain-case to get rid of my joy-rider.
*■* * *
“Murra”: An Indian hawker arrived in a
south-eastern country town in S. Aus. and
turned his horse on the reserve, where some
others were already feeding. Next morning
he could not find his nag anywhere. He
walked about for several days searching for
the missing animal, and it was not until rain
set in that he got a clue. There were two
white horses on the reserve, and the Indian
noticed that one was rapidly changing Color-
Inspection revealed the lost neddy. The
youth of the township had camouflaged him
with whitewash. The hawker had been look-
ing for a black horse, so did not give a
second glance at the white ones.
* * =l=
“Trallwm” : Pastoralists in N.S.W. appear
suddenly to have become awake to the fact
that stock is systematically pastured on
roads under a pretence of “travelling,” but
the practice is as old as droving. For 50
years at least the facetious term for/ the
road has been “the long paddock.” I kept
books for one pastoral firm which had always
an average of 10,000 sheep on the roads.
They strung from near the S.A. border in
Vic. right through to Winton 1.Q.), where
the chain of stations ended. One man on
the wages-roll of the firm had been a drover
on the “long paddock” for years. He held
almost overseer rank, and was trusted to
market mobs just when and where the sell-
ing was good. A lot of money must have
been made by this no-rent pasturing at
station-hand wages!
(Continued on page 25.)
“LUNCH-OH!”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When you’ve trudged behind the harrows t
your feet are tired and sore,
In a howling wind that fills your eyes with
You’re hungry as a dingo, your conditions
you deplore, . . .
And you realise the cocky earns Ins crust.
Then your troubles seem to vanish, disappear
as though in smoke,
You recover once again your pep and
punch,
Wind and dust and thirst and hunger are
forgotten by a bloke ~ ,
When his wife comes down the paddock
with the lunch.
When you sight her through the timber with
a basket on her arm,
In her hand a billycan of steaming tea.
Then you recognise that woman somehow
has a subtle charm;
In her presence cares and worries from
you flee.
All your plans you gaily tell her as your
pannikin she tills,
And her johnny-cakes and buttered scones
you munch;
You forget about the mortgage and that pile
of unpaid bills.
When the wife comes down the paddock
with the lunch.
Oh, it’s good to see her coming on a cold
and wint’ry (lay,
When you’re splitting posts or firewood
down the creek;
Cheerlessly the dawn was breaking when you
packed and got away,
And you feel that you’ve been on the job
a week.
All the cattle seek the shelter of the light-
woods and the gums,
And the sheep have likewise gathered in a
bunch;
But, athwart the gloomy gullies, what a ray
of gladness comes
When the wife comes down the paddock
with the lunch!
I have left the bush behind me, left the
horses and the plough,
And ’tis ages since I built a stack of hay.
I’d be somewhat out of practice with the
adze or broad-axe now, -
Though with either I was handy in my
day.
All the “guns” would now outpace me, dig-
ging spuds or picking maize,
But although I may have lost my old-time
punch . ,
I recall the hour of gladness in the struggling
old hush days
When the wife came down the paddock
with the lunch. __ _
VICTOBIA.
THOMAS V. TIERMAY.


<7he Monarch of
p&
Wi
///''■;
,40?
***#>lo**''
''}//, ...
'' ££■; / //
ff'-'
" - .."'//S';:
9
,///■// / / // ''"///, '
r§o <£l m
xjm. .•*?***
■'''>.// '■ft".".. . «
' ■ X.Affo. "'"A/XAl."'
'/
,
% .
'"'A/?'//.
* ./* 'f £ : ' ‘ # I
A
0
#4
< M
z
a
m
ZvP
&
.r
?Jr*y
wfewy*'' z 7 ,a /
' yff
i^JyMVW
/A
W'h /
s/a/",;.
WWM.
m
ms
fr.s
W";A
JFfr;
'£'/" ' /u
/
««
tv>
Pfi
a
\ 1
//A
W »
SOT
?s
PT
m
m
4
lumiijMiiiiuii
Sfiv-;
fcVVJv-KJ
mm
m
1&J
K
;X
i
n.V
00
V
'v
Who travels on Dunlop travels well!
8000 GARAGES STOCK THEM


PEAPES
Clothe men AND their sons.
Spring, with its many festivities,
is the season at which men most
seek individuality in dress.
That is why so many select
their needs at PEAPES, a
procedure 'which ensures that
every article is exclusive and
every detail correct.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
m
m
astaa
ss
SIZEoTWO
SILK CUT VIRGINIA.
DRAP
1® for CIGARETTES for 1/®
They Satisfy
because they are made from 100
per cent, pure Virginia tobacco,
thoroughly matured. “Greys
have a reputation they cannot
afford to lose; they are therefore
consistent in their perfect quality.
“Greys” protect your palate and
leave no after taste. Let your
next smoke be a “GREYS.”
Of course you
know “Greys
Heavyweights’’
are now 1/- for
10; 2/- for 20,
The
Weight
of your
Rabbit
Skins
tnay total lb., cwts. or
tons, but the largest cheque
possible is wanted, what-
ever the quantity may be.
Send your Rabbit, Fox and
other skins to
th
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD
and secure it. They have one service for all clients
-—the best. And their capable work as salesmen
constantly produces top values, accurate and prompt
returns. Offices:
WINCHCOMBE HOUSE
BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY.
and 99-101 EAGLE ST.,
BRISBANE.
“.Timsey”: Like “The Rumpus’’ (B.
24/7/’29) I have seen a man drive a nail
into extra-hard wood with a single blow,
while other men, equally as big and appa-
rently as strong, have tailed utterly. One
man’s secret is always to shove the nail into
a piece of soap several times before the
driving-in test. With me it has sometimes
failed, but oftener succeeded. Much, of
course, depends on how the nail is struck.
* * * *
“Barangkali”: Captain Cook did find
kangaroos and rock-wallabies at Cooktown
'("Questo,” B. 14/8/’29), but be had very
poor luck in shooting them. The kangaroo
was first seen by one of the Endeavour’s
seamen who had been wandering through
the bush, and who believed that he had seen
the Devil. His own words in describing
INTIMATE DETAILS.
SALESMAN: “You’ll get no shimmy with this car, sir.”
CLIENT: “That baint no matter to we, young man. Me and ma[?]ther do alius wear
flannins.”
this fearsome animal are set down in Cook’s
diary as follows: “He was as large as a
10-gallon keg and very like it. He had horns
and wings, and crept so softly through the
heavy grass that if I had not been afeard
I might have touched it.” Three days later
Captain Cook himself saw a kangaroo, and
describes it as very much resembling a grey-
hound, of a light mouse color, and having
a heavy tail which appeared to help it
greatly in its method of travelling. Kan-
garoos could not have been very plentiful at
that time, for it was not until six weeks
after the Endeavour beached at Cooktown
that a shooting party bagged one. In fact
during the whole three months’ stay only two
kangaroos were shot, though parties went
out daily in hopes of securing fresh food
for the relief of scurvy, of which a number
of the crew suffered at the time.
* * *
“Mundowie”: Several swaggies I’ve met
on the track were not so hard-up as they
always looked. A few could have lived com-
fortably on their bank accounts. One of these
had a selection on the Burnett (Q.). That
was home, but home never held him long; he
got restless, and at last would roll up and
go off. The call of the shearing-sheds was
irresistible. He took light jobs, like wool-
rolling and piece-picking, simply because he
enjoyed the life and company. The wand-
erers’ camps in many places were pleasure
resorts to him. He took different tracks, to
see the country ; and when he got back home
he was quite happy and contented—for a
month or two. In his case, I think the
main reason of the wanderlust was that ha
couldn’t read.
“Phil” : The last Alsatian to be imported
into Australia after the Federal Govern-
ment’s bail is the queen of her race —
Herta von den Fildern, Grand Champion
of Germany for 1928. She was brought here
for B. J. Paget, of St. Kilda (Vie.), on
the Hobson’s Bay. Mr. Paget met her on
the boat and addressed her in German,
whereupon she sat down and held out her
paw.
* * * *
“A.8.W.”: At Alt-street, Ashfield (Syd-
ney), a white sparrow lately appeared, the
first albino of the species I have ever met.
Except for the tips of the wings, which were
a very light grey, the bird was entirely
white. He was hopping about and chirrup-
ing with a dozen or more gutter-snipes of
his race, none of whom seemed to regard
him as anything but an ordinary spadger.
Albinos are pretty common among most
birds and animals. I think for consistency
of color-scheme Spadge just about takes
the grub.
:j: £ ❖ *
“Trefaldwyn”: Much has been written
about the loads that have been packed on
camels and on infantrymen in France, but
for size of load I nominate that packed by
a station-hand in the Upper Murray
(N.S.W.) on his spare riding-hack. It
was drought-time and he had to carry hard
feed for two horses. Using a pack-saddle
with hooks, not cross-ends, he carried five
full-sized bags of chaff on a 14.2 brumby.
Two bags were booked on at the seams, two
more were laid on these with a lean towards
one another, and a fifth was placed in the
valley made by them. Two surcingles joined
together went round the lot, which looked
like a creeping haystack! The outfit could
only crawl, but it crawled for 14 miles over
roadless hills. . *
* * * *
“Sea Nomad” : Maricnberg, where Admin-
istrator Wisdom has been honored by the
greatest sing-sing ever accorded a white man
on the Sepik, is a
Government sub-
station 35 miles up
river. It is a
cluster of native
houses set on a big
coral - limestone
ridge. The P.O.’s
quarters, the police
and native bar-
racks are perched
up on the ridge.
Cocoanut palms
wave above the
bulk store, petrol
dump and rest-
houses. Patrol-
officer Eric Robin-
son was in charge
when I was there.
Fifteen police-bo.vs
were under him,
representing the
power which keeps
in check the thou-
sands of natives
who inhabit the
Lower Sepik.
About a mile from
Marienberg is a
big R.O. mission,
ve r y picturesque
under rows of
palms; Father
Kirclibaum has
been in charge for
15 years. A few
miles further on is
an oil-boring plant,
which has recently
suspended opera-
tions. The flat
banks of the river
lie under a wide
sea of cane-grass of
gigantic propor-
tio n s. “Sac-sac”
(sago) palm
swamps alternate
with dense scrub
patches. Just be-
low Marienberg is
a spot noted for its
floating islands. I
have seen them
come creeping down there with full-grown
trees on them.
.<■■ * *
“Lamia”: In addition to wrestling quail
the Malays have other diminutive pugilists.
These are Ikan Blagar, fighting fish, lMn.
long. The combatants are kept in separate
bottles until the hour strikes for the fray.
They are then put in one
bottle and the fight begins.
The contest lasts from five
minutes to one or two hours,
and it is a deadly business.
Sometimes the victor gives
an added zest to the duel by
biting off the tail of the van-
quished, It is only the male
Ilian Blagar that fights. The
females are lovers of peace.
* * *
“Bad Australian”: As old
Bob the ’possumer hadn’t
turned up to collect the sup-
plies that Jim Smith had
brought out from the store
for him on his last visit to
the township. Jim rode up
the creek to ascertain the
cause of the delay. When
he reached Bob’s humpy he
found him seated on the
doorstep, blazing away with
his .22 at a piece of brown
paper about six inches by
eight which was pegged to a
big white-gum 20 paces or
so away. When Jim in-
quired the reason for this
apparent waste of good cart-
ridges, Bob levered another
charge into the chamber and
said, “I bin dead crook fer
th’ last three-four days with
th’ lumbager or th’ skyat-
terker or something, an’ I
bin tryin’ gum-leaf fermen-
tations an’ rabbin’ karasene inter me j’ints,
but them remedies don’t seem ter do me no
good, so I’m jest tryin’ ter make one o’ them
poorhouse plasters.”
“Ivongoni” (Nairobi, Africa) : Abo.-liars
may be " interested to hear what the Uganda
Game Warden has to say in his annual
report for 1928 about the crocodiles that
infest Lakes Albert and Victoria and the
Upper Nile. It has been freely stated
that crocs, devour enormous quantities of
fish, but proof is difficult to obtain. Eye-
witnesses at the Murchison Falls computed
that as much as a ton of fish a day was
consumed by the reptiles infesting the pools
there, and as many as 600 crocs, have been
counted basking on the sandy flats on the
Achori banks. The two principal members
of the Fishing Survey have not only chal-
lenged the assertion that crocs, exist mainly
on fish, but don’t believe they are capable
SHE KNEW SOMEBODY DID.
BILLY (giving the girl fair warning) : “No plurry girl make it fool
of me.”
MARY ( piqued): “What pfeller did, then?”
of capturing a healthy iish in its natural ele-
ment. Stomach examinations furnished little
evidence, but tend to support the conclusion
that normally the croc, does not catch fish.
Some curious points suggest themselves from
the stomach exams. It is probable that (1)
crocs, can and do subsist for long periods
on exceedingly little food or none at all;
(2) that a gorged croc, submerges until it
has digested its meal, and that all speci-
mens observed on dry land are hungry ones;
(3) that breeding females are so busy pro-
tecting their eggs that they have no oppor-
tunity for looking for food, and so invariably
have empty stomachs. Several pounds of
pebbles are almost always found in the
stomachs of such crocs.; their function _is
uncertain, but they may help digestive
juices to remain normal during long periods
"of fasting. The brutes are accustomed to
eat their own eggs. Dealing with the breed-
ing season, the experts find that the period
of incubation is about three months. In
four nests there were a total of 237 eggs.
The newly-hatched young are extremely
agile and vicious a but they can do no dam-
age with their unformed teeth. They utter
a chirruping cry, probably of annoyance.
The youngsters feed at first on flies and
various insects, but subsist chiefly on the
contents of the yolk sac, which is absorbed
in the body, and traces of which have been
found after the age of six months. The
embryo croc, has a tooth at the end of the
snout for cutting its way out of the _ egg,
the shell of which becomes exceedingly
leathery prior to hatching out.
■* * * *
“Wakatu”: Maorilanders have been re-
minded by a recent court case that the Aus-
tralian magpie cannot be kept there as a
pet. A dealer had offered a talking Mag
for sale. Even the magistrate confessed to
being ignorant tha. the birds, which are
numerous in country districts, are so closely
protected. His confession that he had kept
one himself brought the advice that permis-
sion must first be obtained from the Minister
of Internal Affairs.
* * * *
“Pick”: In the Wagonga River (N.S.W.)
the other day some shark-fishers discovered
a rope hanging from the mouth of a 14-foot
tiger-shark they had hooked and hauled
ashore. Confidently expecting to find at the
end of it a large shark-hook they had prized
and lost, they tracked the hemp into the
interior. At the far end they found it
attached to a collar around the neck of a
cattle-dog. Among other trifles, poor old
Bluey had a pair of rubber-soled tennis-
shoes for company.
THE THROW-ME-DOWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Methylated spirits, flytox and boot polish were the
ingredients of a special ‘pick-me-up’ manufactured
by a storekeeper of Mount Morgan (Q-) • A fter
drinking,’ said Inspector O’Hara, ‘men go absolutely
mad, tear their clothes off and make the place
hideous with their carryings-on.’ ” Brisbane Mail.
With frantic sound and gesture
He wandered the quiet land,
Like a somewhat demented prophet,
Who will tear at his garb to doff it
So that, freed of all vice and vesture,
In naked wrath he may stand.
“I take me booze as I find it,”
He roared to the rocking stars;
“I was never a passive resister,
And although it might burn and blister,
I wasn’t the one to mind it,
This stuff that blooms in bars.
“I’ve served me time on sailers,”
He stormed at the staggering moon,
“Where the horny-handed sinners
Were horny, too, in their iiiners,
And there weren’t no dainty ailers
From Rio to Rangoon.
“From north to south I’ve sunk it,"
He howled to the liiccuping breeze.
“In the East and the West I’ve wallowed
And the worst that ever followed
(Though I never knew how to funk it)
Was lizards in B.V.D.’s.
“The best of methylated,”
He raved at the reeling hills.
“And it couldn’t ’ve been the Nugget
(Just a dash or two wouldn’t drug it),
But Flytox—l’ve always hated
These flamin’ fancy frills!
“Me drinkin’ days are ended,”
He wailed to an earth on edge,
“Though I’m sound in all limbs and organs,
I've sampled Mount Morgan’s ‘Morgans,’
And they’re Hell and Hades blended,
So help me—where’s the pledge!”
QUEENSLAND.
HASEN.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Solicitor, Sydney, under no disability, retired on
small income, would give services as private secretary,
etc., in return for comfortable home, with congenial
associations, in country, anywhere.—2126.
Returned soldier, married, with family, young
and active, first-class butcher’s shopman and small-
goodsman, wants work. Go anywhere in N. S. Wales.
—2128.
Wanted partner to join established farmer banana-
growing, Mackay (Q.) district, virgin soil, 90in.
rainfall, easily worked, adjoins rail terminus town-
ship. Business taught. Capital not essential.—2167.
Man (30), English, returned soldier, wants posi-
tion first-aid attendant. Factory experience.—2143.
Refined young Englishwoman, Q’land, experienced
governess-companion, will give service over arranged
period in return for passage or part fare to England.
—2147.
Victorian man wants to take up dairy farming
on share system.—2165.
Clerk, extensive colliery office and book-keeping
experience, seeks position as clerk or book-keeper.
EX. refs.—2164.
South Australian (26), wireless and telegraph
operator, electrician, knowledge motor fitting, clerical
work, storekeeping and handling horses, used to
native labor, wants position any kind, anywhere.
—2033.
English widow, Sydney, competent cook, would
take full charge three-course luncheons or dinners,
private homes, moderate cost.—2041.
Young man, Vic., deaf mute, well-educated, wants
job as gardener, easemaker, packer or farm laborer,
anywhere.—2093.
Inventor (N.S.W.) wants financial assistance to
develop cheap method of extracting oil from shale
and coal.—2028.
Agencies or acting representation wanted by young
business man with own office in Toowoomba, Q’land,
good connection; refs. —2026.
Words of verse entitled “Thank God for Monday
Morning.”—2045.
Words of “Two Red Roses Across the Moon,” by
William Morris; also words of poem by Belloc
beginning “Lady, when your head sinks to lie
among the dead.”- —2084.
Sydney girl (22) would like correspondents pre-
ferably on stations or in other countries.—2199.
Whereabouts of Bert Stoker, formerly of Rams-
gate-road, Botany (N.S.W.).—2100.
To buy second-hand copy of Funk and Wagnalls’
Abridged Dictionary.—2053.
To buy copies “Valentine Vox,” “Silvester Sound”
and “Mildred Arkell.”—2056.
To buy copy of “The Candidate,” by Justin Mac-
Carthy.—2097.
To buy back numbers of Inland Printer, British
Printer, Printer’s Ink, American Printer and
American Pressman, also books dealing with print-
ing.—2189.
To buy buttons, badges, etc., of military, naval,
air and police forces of all countries. —2159.
To buy copy of Prof. McConnell’s “Agricultural
Note Book.”—2123.
Information Sought.
For a man 26 years old, moderate means,
on wages (1) which is the best insurance
policy to take—endowment or ivhole life?
(2) Why? —2229.
(1) Whole life, if you can get it; if you
are under standard and heavy loading is
demanded for a whole-life policy, an endow-
ment policy may be better. But take the
whole-life if and while you can get it without
loading. (2) A whole-life policy gives your
dependants the most benefits for the least
premiums; and that is the most important
consideration in the earlier years of marriage
—and in very many cases in the later ones
too.
(1) Chemical formula or name of solu-
tion used in electrically despositing chro-
mium? (2) What are the correct anode and
cathode amperages? —2066.
(1) The solution is one of chromic oxide,
and is imported from Cannings of Birming-
ham (Eng.). Chromic acid has to be added
from time to time. (2) This can only be
determined by experience, after having used
the solution for a while. The cathode sur-
face must not be greater than the anode
surface, and some articles take up to 500
amperes. Besides the solution there are
many other items to provide before chro-
mium plating can be successfully done.
Cost of suitable plant is approximately
£700.
Sow does a motorist visiting N.S.W. from
Q’land for three months secure temporary
registration, and. what is the cost? —2036.
On entering N.S.W. the driver must apply
to the officer-in-charge of the nearest district
registry (police station will inform as to
the nearest) for the temporary registration
of the vehicle, and must desposit £1, where-
upon a distinguishing number-plate, called a
visitor’s plate, will be issued, and must be
firmly affixed. Upon leaving the State the
visitor’s plate should be returned to any
district registry, and upon the production
of the receipt the deposit will be refunded.
I own 49 p.c. of the shares of a eo. To
safeguard myself I want to be managing
director. How can it be done? —2184.
Depends on the articles. If one share
carries one vote, secure the support of 2 p.c.
more shares. Then exercise your voting
power to get a majority of seats on the
board, and the desired appointment can fol-
low. But if the voting power is not wholly
according to shares held, it may be necessary
to (1) get the support of much more than
another 2 p.c. of the shares, or (2) secure
an alteration of the articles; and the latter
will depend on your success in securing other
shareholders’ support.
A commercial traveller provides his own
car (Chrysler Tourer), and all upkeep and
running expenses. What would be a fair
rate per mile to pay for this service?
Salary and personal travelling expenses are
provided for separately. —2oso.
It would depend a good deal on the weekly
mileage. The last annual conference of the
United Association of Commercial Travellers
adopted as a basis 6d. per mile in the city
and 7d. per mile in the country.
I am 28 and would like to become a wool-
classer. . (1) Can I obtain night tuition in
Sydney? (2) Where? (3) Cost? (4)
Length of course? (5) Are the prospects
good? (6) Am I too old to start? —lß7l.
(1) Yes. (2) At the Darlinghurst Branch
of the Sydney Technical College. (3) £2
per year of three terms. (4) The evening
course covers three years. (5) Depends on
natural aptitude and personal qualities. For
a competent man—yes. (6) No. The ages
of students attending range from 16 to 50
years of age.
(1) What is the heaviest aircraft in
existence? (2) Fastest air speed attained
and officially recognised? (2) Greatest alti-
tude yet attained? —l99l.
(1) So far as we can ascertain the heavi-
est aeroplane is a Dornier, designed to
carry a load of 30 tons. (2) 318 miles per
hour, by De Bernardi, and more recently,
though not yet officially reported, 350 miles
by Atcherley. (3) 41,790 ft.
Do you recommend propagating (1) Eng-
lish lavender and (2) Scotch larch by plant-
ing seeds? —1789.
(1) The better way is by division. It
grows readily, and a large stock can be
worked up. (2) The climatic conditions
may prevent the seeds from maturing. The
larches may be propagated by layering or
by grafting on to seedlings of similar genera.
How to tan a snake's skin? —1979.
Soak the skin in water for 24 hours; then
carefully scrape the back to remove all flesh
and fat. Make up a curing liquor of 4oz.
powdered alum, 2oz. common salt, to lgal. of
water, and soak the skin for 48 hours. Wash
and again scrape the back. Make up another
liquor, minus the salt, and soak for 24 hours.
Then wash thoroughly and hang to dry away
from the sun and wind. When the skin is
almost dry smear a little vegetable oil on
the flesh side and then dry off.
What were the reasons for the decline in
the metalliferous industry as reported by a
select committee that conducted investiga-
tions in, N.S.W. about eight years ago? —
2158.
High cost of production, deterioration in
ore values in existing mines, inadequate
machinery, high freights, high treatment
charges, imperfect labor conditions in mines,
lack of new payable discoveries and lack
of efficiently-supported prospecting.
How many ships belonging to the London
Missionary Society bearing the name John
Williams have been wrecked, and where
and when? —2201.
Three. The first, a barque, was wrecked
on Pukapuka, or Dangar Island, north of
Samoan group, about May 17, 1864. The
second left Sydney 1866, and struck hard on
a reef in Anelcahant Harbor, Aneityum
Island. She returned to Sydney, left again,
and was totally wrecked on Nive (Savage
Island), a an. 8, 1867. The third, formerly
the Samoa, began service in 1868 and con-
tinued until sold in 1894. While trading
between New Zealand and Sydney in 1596
she became missing with all hands. A fourth
with the same name is still at work.
(1) Where can a young man employed as
a boatbuilder obtain tuition in the trade in
Sydney? (2) Cost of instruction? —2025.
(1) Sydney Tech, conducts a course of
instruction extending over five years, compris-
ing a three-year lower course for apprentices
or those connected with the shipbuilding
trades, and a two-year higher course. Stu-
dents are required to attend three nights
each week. (2) Seniors, £2 10s. p.a.; juniors
(those under 2l earning less than 30s. per
week), 255. p.a.
(1) Where could I purchase books pertain-
ing to the building and flying of aeroplanes?
(2) Could a lame man learn to fly? (3)
Where could I learn? (4) What would it
cost? (5) What education is necessary to
secure a pilot's license? (6) What pay does
a pilot receive, and are there any good posi-
tions open? —lß2o.
(1) Technical Book Department, Angus
and Robertson, Sydney. (2) If not handi-
capped by his lameness, yes. (3) Aero Club
of N.S.W. (4) Approximately £BO to “A'’
license. (5) No specified educational
standard. (6) Not many vacancies at present,
but should be within the next couple of years.
Average salary, about £lO per week.
(1) Which is the better hand in poker, a
full hand or a flush? (2) Correct order of
winning hands? (3) Reliable textbook? (4)
Any recognised Australian authority (or con-
trolling body) on card-playing?, —-2082.
(1) Full hand. (2) Straight flush, fours,
full hand, flush, straight, threes, two pairs,
one pair, highest card (if no pair held). (3)
“Hoyle’s Games Modernised.” (4) No.
Nationalities of migrants aboard s.s. Ben-
digo on her last trip to Australia? —l9ls.
There were 260 migrants aboard: 152 were
English, 75 Scotch, 13 Irish and 20 Welsh.
(1) Has a glider been successfully flown
in Australia? (2) How is it done? (3)
Any books on the subject? (4) Cost of a
machine? (5) Where could I obtain one?
(61 Where could one be made? —l47B.
(1) Gliders were successfully flown in
Australia many years ago, and the practice
is at present being revived. (2) The require-
ments of a glider are a light lifting surface,
which is fully controllable both longitudinally
and laterally. (3) Lists of publications are
available at leading booksellers and public
libraries. (4) Approximately £9O. (5) From
Aircraft Manufacturing and Supply Cos., Box
151, Geelong. (6) In any workshop of suffi-
cient area to accommodate the machine.
(1) Where and how could I become an
air pilot f (2) Cost, including use of
machine while learning? (3) Cost of light
aeroplane, similar to a Moth or an Avro
Avian, as used by Hinkler? (4) Approxi-
mate cost of running a small ’plane per mile?
■ —1853.
(1) Flying training instruction to enable
a pupil to graduate as a pilot may be obtained
from the Australian Aero Club (Q’land
section) in Brisbane. (2) Approximate cost
of training course is £4O. Communicate with
sec., Aero Club, Bank of Australasia Cham-
bers, Brisbane, and ask for particulars of
club’s training scheme. (3) About £BOO in
Australia. Communicate with the De Ilavil-
land Aircraft Pty., Whiteman-street, South
Melbourne, 5.C.5, if interested in a Moth
machine; and with Kellow-Falkiner Pty.,
St. Kilda-road, Melbourne, 5.C.2, in respect
of Avro-Avians. (4) Agents would give you
an estimate.
(1) What is the height of the tallest red-
wood tree measured in California? (2) The
height of the tallest tree in Victoria? (3)
Is there any grove of redwoods in California
averaging 500 ft. high? —l997.
(11 The greatest height mentioned by
authorities is 400 ft. (2) The tallest tree
measured by a surveyor was a Eucalyptus
regnans, at Narracan South, near Thorpdale.
It was 375 ft. high and was destroyed in
1880. A eucalypt said to be 521 ft. high,
at Cape Otway, is on record, but the height
is not authenticated. (3) No.
(1) Is a knife carried on a belt in a
sheath considered as a concealed weapon
and punishable by law? (2) What is the
punishment for carrying a knife or an un-
licensed revolver, or both? —2149.
(1) The carrying of a sheath-knife for
ordinary use, as in the country, is not au
offence, though it may, under certain cir-
cumstances, furnish evidence of intent to
commit a felonious act. In the city, where
such knives are not in common use, it would
be better to leave the article at home. (2)
In N.S.W. the Pistol License Act (1927)
provides that any person who has in his pos-
session any pistol, without a license, shall
be liable to a penalty not exceeding £SO. If
such person uses or carries any pistol with-
out a license between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. he is
liable to a penalty not exceeding £IOO, and
if the offence be committed between 7 p.m.
and 7 a.m. he is liable, in addition, to a
term of imprisonment not exceeding six
months. Licenses are not issued to persons
under the age of 18 years.
(1) How to keep a dog'clear of fleas? (2)
Preparation for increasing glossiness of coat?
(3) Does soap injure dog’s coat? (4) Proper
diet for cattle-dog and Alsatian? —1864.
(1) Keep the dog clean. When washing
add two tablespoons of kerosene to a
bucket of soapy warm water. Dusting with
pyrethrum powder stupefies the fleas, which
may then easily be brushed off the dog’s
skin. (2) Cleanliness, massage, grooming
and good food are essential for a glossy
condition of the coat. (3) There are several
suitable dog skin soaps on the market. (4)
Feed principally on meat and only once a
day. If they will take it, give an occa-
sional meal of green vegetables and meat
gravy. Guard against over-feeding.
(1) Did Captain Cook leave any direct
descendants? (2) Where is the Cook statue
at Randwick situated, and is it worth seeing ?
(3) Is Inscription Point (Botany Bay)
marked on Sydney tourist maps identical
with Point Sutherland, named by Cook? —
2014.
(1) No. (2) Corner of Avoca-street and
Belmore-road. It is of interest to any keen
admirer of Cook. (3) Inscription Point is
a small nose on a. large promontory, Point
Sutherland; i t marks the spot where the
Philosophical Society of N.S.W. in 1821
erected a tablet to commemorate Cook’s
visit.
What are the costs of administering an
estate in N.S.W. when left to children of the
deceased (1) if just under £5000? (2) If just
over £5000? (3) The like charges in Eng-
land? (4) Probable lawyers’ charges? (5)
Would Government valuator’s assessment of
cottage be accepted for probate, and (6) the
market price of shares in companies and Gov-
ernment stocks at the time of death? (7) Is
an alloivance made for agents and brokers’
commission on realising? —2oßs.
(1) and (2) Probate (or administration)
duties in State; not exceeding £SOOO, rate
2 per cent. Federal: Exceeding £2OOO, rate
1 per cent, with an additional one-fifth per
cent, for every £IOOO or part thereof, in
excess. (3) Exceeds £IOOO, 3 per cent.;
exceeds £SOOO, 4 per cent. (4) Depend on
circumstances in connection with the estate
but are adjusted on a fixed scale. (5), (6)
and (7) Yes.
How to keep dates fresh over a period of
12 months? —1907.
Practically nothing can be done except
keeping them in as cool a place as possible.
Small quantities are sometimes dressed with
a little glycerine in water, but it is unsatis-
factory and may result in loss. The last of
the consignment could be parcelled and
wrapped in waxed paper before the final gloss
disappears, and if air-tight and well stored
should keep better than if left in bulk till the
end.
For 10 years I have paid 2s. per week
to insure my child at 20. The amount was
£SO. I am now told that I will get no
more than £54 or £55 when the policy
matures this year ; and I will have paid in
that much. Do I get nothing for the use
of my money all these years? —l946.
Two things must be remembered: (1) It
has cost the co. at least £2O to collect your
£SO week by week for 10 years; (2) more
important still, the £SO would have been pay-
able if the insured had died within the
first year. He didn’t die, but there are many
who did, and the fortunate who live must
pay for the unfortunate who die. That is
the very essence of life assurance. On no
other basis would it be practicable.
Does Anybody Know?
How to mix and apply whitewash for use
on walls and floor of swimming-pool so that
it shall not peel off and discolor water?—
2091.
How to clean and re-color roof-tiles (red)
that have become discolored and dirty?—
2074.
Brief Answers.
J.C.K.L.: (1) Subject is covered in
Queensland Agricultural Journal (Aug., 1929,
pp. 136 to 162) ; also in Pathological Leaflet No. 6
and Entomological Leaflet No. 15, issued by dept.
(2) Cannot advise in the absence of a detailed
description of the species infesting your trees. Sub-
mit specimens to Dept, of Agriculture for identifica-
tion and method of treatment... .J.C.: (1) Canadian
national debt at March 31, 1927, was 2,726,298,717
dollars gross and 2,378,464,347 dollars net; interest,
129,675,367 dollars; on September 30, 1928, net
debt was 2,223,347,692 dollars. (2) Too long to
print here; see “Canada Year-book,” available at
most public libraries....R.J.R.: (1) Yes. (2) You
might try a summons against proprietor in Small
Debts Court; registrar of the court would advise
as to form.... J.S.T.: “Petroleum Y. Nasby” was
D. R. Locke ; “Pierre Loti” was Louis M. J. Viaud.
E.G.W.J.: National Mutual, George-street; City
Mutual, Hunter-street.... J.H.F.: Don’t know such
a co. in Australia, but there is a small one with
that name in New Zealand. Sure you got the name
right? F.J.1.: It is speculative, and if safety of
principal is the first consideration you certainly
shouldn’t put all your capital into it. Any Stock
Exchange broker will take your application....
F.J.: If you desire to learn to fly so that you may
later fly your own machine, you will have to secure
instruction through an Aero club. If you contem-
plate taking up aviation professionally, your best
course would be to apply to the Secretary, Air
Board, Melbourne, for a cadetship in the R.A.F.
Owing to retrenchment in the Defence Department,
however, your chances of entering the R.A.F. appear
to be very slight. Commercial aviation cos. engage
none but experienced pilots. . . .C. 8.: There are many
small brooders on the market that will take up
to 75 chicks, but such a small number as 20
chicks should be placed with a broody hen. This
can be done quite satisfactorily by setting a ben or
a number of hens when the eggs are put into the
incubator and giving up to 20 chicks to each hen....
V.P.T.: Better not. Leave your money where it is.
. ...E.A.W.: (1) Carrigan and Cos., 189 Sussex
street; Paul and Gray, 82 Sussex-street; Broom-
fields, 152 Sussex-street —all Sydney. (2) “Yacht
Navigation and Voyaging,” by Worth; and “The
Complete Yachtsman,” by Du 80u1ay.... J.M.1.: (1)
1923. (2) “Coonardoo” in book form can be
obtained from Robertson and Mullens, 107 Elizabeth-
street, Melb. ; “A Rogue in Amber” has not yet
been published in book form... .S.G.H.: Recruiting
for the R.A.N. has been suspended. Communicate
with District Naval Officer, Naval Staff Office
Edward-street, Brisbane... .H.M.: (1) You should
not use it for long periods except under medical
advice. (2) You would need expensive scales and
other accessories; get a chemist to make up a 16oz
bottle T.H.H.: (1) If you smoke or drink, take
a month’s spell. (2) Get a boat-shaped nasal
douche and ask chemist how it is used. (3) Use
a teaspoon of salt to a pint of warm water and
pour it through each nostril in turn six times a
day. (4) Tell us the result of a fortnight’s treat-
ment... .D.W.: (1) Nothing is missing. (2) Diel
makes no difference. (3) If the child is not toe
young, put a pinch of mustard on the nail. (4)
See it gets plenty of sleep and exercise... .F.B.
Good food and plenty of exercise and sleep will
allow the body to reach the weight necessary for
good health. Essential foods are milk and eggs,
meats, all vegetables, fruits and bread J.C.
Probably a “deficiency disease.” Eat fresh vege-
tables aud fruit. There is no available medical
literature on the subject and it has been difficult
to get expert information... .W.11.W.: Cannot trace
Sydney or Melbourne agencies; co. has not been
listed in “Oil and Petroleum Year-book” since
1913. . . .L.R.E.: Cannot trace a tank-cleaning vacuum
machine; a Melbourne man has patented a vacuum
pumping arrangement which, mounted on a motor-
lorry, is said to clean tanks; McPherson’s Pty., 554
Collins-street, will be able to furnish particulars.
Melbourne City Council and Melbourne Metropolitan
Fire Brigade use machines of a powerful type for
sludge pumping. They would be too expensive for
your use E.N.V.: (1) No. (2) Cannot trace
any indication of value in rare-book auction records.
(3) We do not think so J.F.T.: To which ferry
do you refer? On the Newcastle-Stockton ferry and
the ferry at Hexham, both under the control of the
N.S.W. Public Works Dept., no preference is given
to mail contractors. Other ferries are under the
control of the local council, which you should
approach for advice... .G.N.T.: See Jane’s “Fighting
Ships,” “Satesman’s Year-book,” or “Whitaker’s,’’
available at your public library... .P.J.8.; Infor-
mation not available in Sydney. Write to Minister
for Health, Pretoria, Transvaal, S’Africa H.J.W.:
Get in touch with either T. W. Robinson and Son,
42 Carter-lane, E.C.4, or All British Skin Cos., 31a
Farm-lane, Walham Green, Fulham, S.W.6 —both
London. Fur Farming (monthly, 6d.), 83 Farring-
don-street, E.C.4, will also put you in communica-
tion with breeders... .A. 8.0.: “BangaUa” (a low
hill) ; “Coolangatta” (a splendid view) ; “Doon-
kuna” (rising) ; “Kobadah” (place on a hill);
“Illa-langi” (camp on a hill) ; “Pindari” (high
ground); “Yuruga” (extensive view) L.G.:
Messrs. John Smith and Cos., Ltd., would be correct.
P.W.P.: Write N.S.W. Govt. Tourist Bureau,
Martin-place, Sydney... .G.S.M.: It would be neces-
sary to examine specimens of the fruit before a
definite opinion could be expressed. If the disease
presents itself during the coming season you should
forward specimens of the pears to the Biological
Branch, Department of Agriculture, Mining Museum,
George-street North, Sydney.... 8.E.: Try Angus and
Robertson or N.S.W. Bookstall Cos. —both of Sydney;
or Robertson and Mullens, Melbourne... .5.H.8.:
The nearest we can trace is the Hardy Brick Cos.,
Wagga Wagga (N.S.W.). You will probably, how-
ever, have to write to a Sydney firm such as
Punchbowl Brick and Tile Cos., Punchbowl; or
Speare’s Tempe Brick, Tile and Pipe 'Works, St.
Peters R.J.R.: Will Andrade, 173 Pith-street,
Sydney W.11.H.: The Home and Territories Dept.,
Canberra, controls the police forces in North and
Central Australia, New Guinea and Papua. See
Service Page (B. 6/3/’29, 17/4/’29 and 29/5/’29).
... .A.E.M.: A concern with considerable possibilities,
but carrying also heavy risks. Rather a gamble
than an investment... .Foriy-years Reader: We rank
4 —7 (both inclusive) and 13 and 15 high ; 1, a
fine property, cursed by labor troubles; 2 and 3
need watching; 11—12 has added to its equipment,
its product has a good name and it is freer from
labor troubles than most; 8, 9 and 16. too risky:
insufficient information about the others to form
an opinion... .S.F.T.: Better take the trustee co.
Its charges may be a little higher; but the difference
between what good management can save and bad
management can lose is a lot more than 1 or -
p.c. p.a P.N.A.: (1) and (2) See Information
Sought. (3) Quite good. (4) All of them pay sur-
render value; but it is not possible for a mutual
co. to give guarantees. Having no capital, it can
distribute only the profit that has been actual!.'
made. (5) Promising; but present bonuses are not
equal to those of some other offices, and the size of
the bonus is one of the factors that govern the
net cost of insurance. (6) Promises are not - p
important as performances (Many others mailed).


jiM/W*
-
m
m
m
mm
“OTITCH ! STITCH ! STITCH !” —lf there was a modern version
of the “Song of the Shirt” we feel that that theme would be
V—/ “friendship,” and it would be dedicated to Murdoch’s. Into every
Murdoch garment made for the boys out-back there is a . sterling
goodness” which springs from an admiration for, and a desire to be
partners with, the men who are the backbone of Australia.
Murdoch’s Far-famed “Toughite” Trio
"Toughite” Shirts
THESE Celebrated “Toughite” (R<
Shirts are specially woven to re-
sist rough
Light or
wear, and are double
dark stripe effects.
sewn.
Each
6'6
Shirts
Khaki Drill Working Shirts for Men. Strongly
made and will render excellent service.
With pocket
6 r 6
Hats
Murdoch’s Famous “Sombrero” Hat.
for the man on the land; crown,
Designed
brim,
plaited leather band. In serviceable
shades of dark Fawn, Black, or Slate
27'6
MURDOCH’S RENOWNED “DROVER”
HAT.—ldeal for the outdoor man, and made
expressly for his wishes. 3?in brim.
Plaited leather band. Dark Fawn shade
21'-
“Toughite” Trousers
A SPECIALLY - WOVEN wear-resisting
fabric exclusive to Murdoch’s. Reinforced
throughout to add to the splendid wearing qualities
of these excellent Trousers. Mid and Dark
Grey shades. Side or cross
pockets ; plain bottoms. All
sizes
11/9
Breeches
Men’s “Toughite” (Regd.) Riding Breeches, medium
balloons, laced legs, cross pockets.
Ready to wear
In Pawn Gabardine Twist, 22/6
19'6
Leggings
Men’s Tan Spring-front Leggings, with
seam back
Tan Strap Leggings, seam back, plain
tops
13'6
22'6
Boots
Men’s Black Elastic-sided Emperors,
standard screwed soles
In Tan Calf, 24/6.
19'6
Men’s Tan Yearling Calf Officers’ Military Derby
Boots or Black Box Hide, with double-
decker soles
22'6
“Toughite” Overalls
MURDOCH’S “TOUGHITE" (Regd.)
Overalls for Men. A special for country
wear and guaranteed to keep dirt
out. Blue Drill Overall Trousers.
Bib and Brace .
9'll
Khaki Drill
Painters’ Unbleached
Blue Drill
Blue Denim
Bib and Brace.
9/11
7/11
9/1 1
Suits
Combinations.
16/6
13/6
15/6
Men’s Ready for Service S.B. Sac Suits in service-
able Mid or Dark Grey Woollen Tweeds.
Graded sizes ensure perfect fitting..
59'6
Men’s High-grade Woollen Worsted Sac Suits, in
newest plain or fancy patterns. A three-
piece Suit ready for immediate wear ..
Rugs
Strong English-made Bush Rugs. Made
for rough wear. Size, 50 x 72; weight,
31b
72 x 90 inches, 21/-
Tents
Heavy-weight Calico Tents. Reinforced
throughout. 3ft walls. 6ft x Bft.
84'-
12'11
25'-
Bft x 10ft, 35/- ; 10ft x 12ft, 47/6.
Fly to Match, lift x 9ft, 16/-; 12ft, x 12ft, 22/6,
14ft x 14ft. 30/-.
Send for the big Catalogue
m
m
murooc
rtf'
yrm
€ ...
\
A
LQL
costs you nothing and saves
you pounds!
EVERYTHING in Men’s and Boys’ Wear, Sporting Goods,
latest in Radio, Travelling Goods, Smoking Requisites
and Fancy Goods —all beautifully illustrated and described.
Write to Desk “R” for a free copy!
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR
Tents are sent half-freight to nearest Port or Rail Station.
KINDLY ADDRESS ALL LETTERS TO DESK R.
c -fin nt-ir
is
'D
3 ®
t
mm
y* *
<9
b
Park & George Sts., Sydney
“THE WORLD’S LARGEST MEN’S AND BOYS’ WEAR
STORE.”


WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most-up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydney!
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Offices 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
WHEN ORDERING YOUR NEXT SUIT
ASK YOUR TAILOR TO SHOW YOU SAMPLES OF
VICARS’ MARRICKVILLE
High-Class Worsteds and Tweeds
Manufactured by—
JOHN VICARS & CO., LIMITED,
MARRICKVILLE, N.S.W.
Also Makers of the Famous “Marrickville” Travelling Rugs.
ALL PRODUCTS GUARANTEED PURE WOOL.
THE
Farmers 8 Settlers
Co-operative Insurance
Co. of Australia, Ltd.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL,
£250,000
Fire, Accident, Marine, Motor-car,
Workers’ Compensation, Growing
Crops, Stacks, Wool, Fencing.
SPECIALISING IN INSURANCE
FOR THE MAN ON THE LAND
ACTIVE AGENTS REQUIRED
WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
N.S.W. Office:
Wingelo House, Angel Place, Sydney
F. D. POWELL, Manager.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CRPARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
MORE PRIZES FOR FARMERS.
In order to encourage farmers to pass
on to others the fruits of their observa-
tion and experience, “The Bulletin” will
give three prizes for the most helpful
contributions during the six months to
Dec. 31 next.
Points will be awarded for every con-
tribution submitted, if thought worthy and
whether printed or not, and two prizes—
the first of £25 and the second of £10—
will be given to the winners of most
points.
A special prize of £5 will be given for
-he best individual contribution.
Only contributions that are of practical
value to men on the land are asked for;
literary merit is not taken into account, so
long as the meaning is expressed plainly.
The prizes are in addition to the ordi-
nary payments made for all “Bulletin”
contributions.
»
PICKLING WHEAT.
“Hortus”: Farmers who have trouble
with non-germination of seed after pickling
wheat should revise their methods.
Don’t use any old tin or vessel for making
pickle in. No other metal but copper must
be used. If any other metal is used, the
solution is chemically affected. A wooden
cask is safest. When draining the wheat-
butts after dipping, don’t run the liquid
hack along sheets of iron, but use a wooden
trough. Three minutes’ dipping is ample.
If the season is dry and the wheat must
bo sown owing to lateness, don’t sow seed
that has only been treated with pickle, no
matter whether it is bluestonc or formalin.
The reason is that bluestone if left on grain
in dry soil often kills the germ, and that
formalin under the same conditions renders
germination poor and causes undeveloped
growth. If seed has to be sown in dry soil,
dip the pickled seed into limewater before
sowing; the lime neutralises the effect of
the bluestone and so preserves the life of
the wheat germ.
Don’t mix bluestone with lime. Make a
separate caskful of limewater, using |lb.
of freshly-burnt lime to 10 gallons of water.
If freshly-burnt lime cannot be obtained,
use Jib. of slaked lime to 10 gallons of water.
Make a fresh caskful of this limewater at
intervals, as the constant dipping of the blue-
stone-saturated wheat-butts changes the solu-
tion from an alkaline into an acid one, which
does more harm than good.
When making pickle, use cold water. Don’t
throw bluestone into water, for it takes too
long to dissolve that way. Tie it up in a
small bag, and let the latter hang in the
water. Don’t delay sowing heated seed if
good germination is desired.
ECONOMICAL FENCING.
“Yeoman”: A cheap fence invites costly
trouble by making “fencers” of stock, and
involves the owner in constant maintenance
and renewals every few years. The substan-
tial fence, costing perhaps 33 per cent, more
in the initial outlay, will save more than
that within the first 10 years in mainten-
ance alone. In this respect a most econo-
mical fence is that erected with concrete
posts, angle “T” or corkscrew iron droppers,
and the five-wired Cyclone type of fencing,
with two barbed-wires on top.
Concrete posts are the cheapest of any
where the gravel and sand for - making them
are available on the property, or can be
carted from a reasonable distance. Without
labor, the cost of making- line-posts would
average approximately lOd. each; intermedi-
ate strainers about 2s., and gate- and cor-
ner-posts about 3s. 6d. each. They are fire-
proof, and once in the ground are there for
all time.
If the materials are not available for
making concrete posts, recourse must be
had to seasoned posts cut from the best
timber available. Cutting should be done
while the sap is down. The ends of the
posts should be either charred slightly, or
tarred, before being placed in the ground.
The 26-inch five-wired Cyclone type is pre-
ferred, to five plain wires, because it saves
time in erecting, does not require straining
up every year, and will hold even the worst
of the Dorset Horn rams, which can force
their way through the ordinary sheep-proof
fence comprised of plain wires. I place two
barbed-wires on top of the five-wired Cy-
clone, because it effectively prevents cattle or
horses wedging their heads between the barb
and the top strand of the Cyclone, and
breaking the former. The bottom strand of
the Cyclone I put four inches from the
ground (which prevents lambs from crawl-
ing under in depressions), the first barb
six inches above the top strand and the
second barb six inches above the first. This
gives a fence 3ft. Gin. high.
Spacing concrete posts a chain apart, with
four droppers between, the cost per mile
works out at: —
Concrete posts, including strainers .. £4 10 0
Five-wired Cyclone-type fencing .. 23 10 0
Two miles barb wire . . . . .. 5 12 0
Tie wire . . . . . . . . .. 10 0
“T” droppers .. .. .. .. 16 0 0
Labor, erecting . . . . .. .. 6 0 0
£56 2 0
A fence built like that will be standing-
-50 years hence, cost nothing in repairs or
insurance during that period, and will hold
everything from a pet lamb to a scrub bull.
To complete it, gates made of piping are
necessary.
THE VALUE OF SOIL ANALYSIS.
“P. Aitch”: It is often said that soil analy-
sis is of very little value, because it is “par-
tial” and does not disclose the availability
of the plant foods. Actually even partial
analysis is of very great value in determin-
ing the fertility of soils.
The partial analysis of Victorian soils
in the ’nineties enabled A. N. Pearson and
Dr. Howell to “boom” superphosphate
manuring with confidence, simply because it
disclosed the remarkable deficiency of our
soils in phosphoric acid. Soils in the West-
ern District (Vic.), discovered to be rich in
phosphoric acid by partial analysis, did
not respond to the fertiliser, so super, is
not wasted on them.
A standard first-class soil will show the fol-
lowing amounts of plant food : Nitrogen, 250
parts per 100,000; phosphoric acid, 150; pot-
ash, 250 ; lime 500 ; magnesia, 500; chlorine,
not more than 35. Parts per 100,000 is the
usual manner of stating an analysis result;
multiplied by 40 gives pounds per acre to
the depth of Ift. The physical condition
of the soil must be also satisfactory, of
course.
As regards acidity, the old litmus test is
being replaced by the potentiometer method.
Farmers are asking, “What does Pb mean?”
It means the hydrogen (or acid) power. A
neutral soil gives a power of seven, which
is expressed as Ph 7. Any figure higher than
seven gives a proportionate alkalinity, i.e.,
a greater or lesser content of the alkaline
earths (lime and magnesia), whilst figures
lower than seven give the acidity. Thus a
hydrogen power of three (Ph 3) shows the
soil to be very acid, and one of 8.8 (PhB.B)
shows a distinct alkaline (lime) soil, etc.
Certain plants, such as potatoes and the
finer grasses, prefer acid soils, whereas the
coarser grasses and legumes (clever, beans,
peas, lucerne, etc.) thrive on soils of a
neutral or alkaline nature. So that the
partial analysis of a soil in this respect will
give the man on the land important infor-
mation.
But the litmus test is still serviceable.
Buy books of red and blue litmus from the
local chemist. Place a tablespoon of soil in
a clean saucer, moisten with rain water,
immerse a strip of blue and a strip of red
litmus paper, taking care that they are in
contact with the soil. At the. end of 15
minutes remove the papers, dip them in clean
rain water and observe the color. Blue
changed to red denotes an acid soil-—red
turned to blue proves the soil to be alkaline,
wdiilst no change in color means the soil is
neutral. The more rapid and intense the
change, the more acid or alkaline the soil,
as the case may be.
POTASSIC FERTILISING.
“L.N.”: “R.D.A.” (B. 21/8/’29) quotes
figures relative to a Q’land muriate versus
sulphate of potash trial on sugar-cane, but
has ignored an official summary of the trial
which read: “It is apparent, therefore, that
muriate of potash does not exercise any
prejudicial effect on the purities or sugar
content of cane juices, and these results
are borne out at the Mackay station.”
(Report of Bureau of Sugar Experiment
Stations, Q., 15/12/’23.) That trial was
not arranged for the purpose of testing crop
result.
The department, having satisfied itself that
there was no advantage analytically in the
use of the dearer sulphate, next devised trials
to prove which salt yielded the greater ton-
nage of cane per acre. The result was that
the average of four muriate plots exceeded
the average of four sulphate plots by over
li ton of cane, and by practically J ton of
sugar per acre on the plant cane. Every
muriate plot exceeded the sulphate plot with
which it had to be compared. (Report of
the Bureau, 3/12./’28.)
There is an infinitely greater consump-
tion of muriate than of sulphate in Q’land,
which shows that sugar-growers are alive to
the facts.
As to “R.D.A.’s” idea that lime is speci-
ally necessary to counteract the effects of
muriate in the soil, Prof. Paterson, of the
Chair of Agriculture, Perth Uni., has pub-
licly disposed of the ancient fallacy by say-
ing : “Both forms of potash deplete the soil
in lime to some extent, and both in the same
degree.”
IRRIGATING LUCERNE.
“C.J.H.”: The lucerne paddock should
be irrigated just previous to sowing. It
is hot a good policy to irrigate after sow-
ing, as this cakes the surface of the soil
and causes drying-out. After the plants have
commenced growing they should be allowed
to go without water until such time as they
are plainly showing the need of it.. This
induces the roots to' go deep, and gives them
a good start in life.
Later applications of water should be
made with an eye to maximum yield. This
is attained not by continual watering, but
by applications at such times as they are
called for. There is a maximum moisture
content for all soils, and it varies according
to the pore spaces. This pore space must
contain air as well as water.
A fair method of gauging the moisture
content is to take a handful of soil from
about six inches below the surface and press
it in the hand. Should it retain its shape
and show the imprint of the fingers, it is
near the limit of its moisture content for
plant growth. This is for loams ; variation
can be made for heavier soils. Should the
handful of soil fall away after pressing, it
needs irrigating.
The findings of Profs. King Hilgard, Sir
A. D. Hall and others in regard to alkalis
are of importance to the lucerne-grower. In
arid districts the greatest accumulation of
alkalis, either black or white, occurs at a
depth to which the annual rainfall pene-
trates, usually 12 to 15 inches. As 12in.
of rain cannot wash away as much of the
alkalis as the same amount of water
on evaporation can precipitate, conditions
are favorable to the formation of alkali
lands. Light applications of irrigation water
to such lands bring the alkalis to within
the upper three or four inches by capillary
action and evaporation. Where the water-
supply is plentiful it is better to apply
heavier irrigations, and lose some of the
water by percolation. To do this, the drain-
age must be very good. If the natural
drainage is inefficient it should be supple-
mented by artificial drainage.
With a limited water-supply this cannot
well be done, but surface tillage should fol-
low as soon after irrigation as the soil will
permit. Unless the land receives a good soak-
ing, either from rain or irrigation, at least
once a year it cannot but become over-
concentrated with injurious alkalis or salts.
Lands suffering from an over-accumulation
of black-alkali (sodium carbonate) in con-
junction with humic and phosphoric acids
can be made to produce profitable crops of
lucerne by draining and an application of
gypsum. It must be borne in mind that
it is only the heavier soils that become
alkali lands. Very rarely do the sandy
soils get into this condition, save where the
use of alkali waters and other conditions
make the concentration possible.
Before draining such lands apply sulphate
of lime. This, besides changing the sodium
carbonate to sodium sulphate, converts the
humic and phosphoric acids into an insol-
uable but not unavailable form for plants.
The gypsum dressing, unless supplemented
by draining, is only a substitution of a
lesser for a greater evil, for eventually the
sodium sulphate becomes over-concentrated
and causes the wilting of plants by the
lowering of the osmotic pressure in the
plant cells. Thus a discharge of the cell
contents takes place and eventually the plant
dies.
Alkali water containing sodium carbon-
ate may be corrected by placing cribs of
gypsum in the channels and at lateral junc-
tions.
GRANITE SOILS.
“Alf Alpha”: The granite soils of Vic-
toria are poor in everything save sand.
Granite rock is exceedingly apt to weather
by mechanical disintegration and denuda-
tion, and in the process of decomposition the
heavy stable mineral (quartz) is left, and
the felspar and mica are washed or blown
away, the resultant sedentary soil being a
gravelly sand poor in plant food.
Many so-called granite soils are sedentary
soils on diorite or something similar and
very often are the alluvial soil environing a
granite outcrop. “Ruffy” (B. 17/7/’29) and
I are apparently at cross purposes in that
lie is speaking of the soil types mentioned,
whilst my remarks refer to the true granite
soil formed in situ.
Here are the analyses of three granite
soils in Vic. (parts per 100,000) :
Phosphoric
District. Nitrogen. Acid. Potash. Lime.
Hareourt (Vic.) . . 90 22 26 114
Granite Rock (Vic) 58 33 83 48
Bendigo (Vic.) . . 83 27 59 89
SHEEP’S TEETH AND AGE.
“Yeoman”; “Cuchulain” (B. 14/8/’29)
is quite correct in his assertion that the
only true selling age of a sheep is the date
of its lambing. Indeed, the uncertainty of
telling the ages of sheep by dentition develop-
ment has frequently been the cause of seri-
ous contentions* amongst pastoralists and
stock agents, and has, on some occasions,
resulted in expensive litigation.
Vai’ious factors, such as climate, soil
(particularly with regard to lime content),
pastures, health, constitution, breed or
type and treatment, are all capable
of either promoting or retarding- the develop-
ment of the sheep’s teeth, causing suffici-
ent variations to render it impossible for
experts to agree, with any degree of
accuracy, as to the age of the sheep in a
flock by an examination of the mouth. Even
in a flock of the same lambing I have known
the dentition development to be so irregular
as to become contradictory to the general
rule, creating the impression that all the
sheep wei*e not lambed in the same year.
The newly-born lamb usually has no teeth,
but most flock-owners occasionally find a
lamb born with two milk teeth, and with
the full set up at the end of five weeks —
three weeks earlier than the average. I
have seen a difference of four months in the
time in which the permanent middle inci-
sors have come up in a flock of the same
age, that wide variation continuing until
the final pair of incisors made their appear-
ance. Even wider variations occur in try-
ing to determine the age of .“full” or
“broken” mouth sheep, as the nature of her-
bage and other seasonal factors influence the
extent to which the gums recede from the
teeth after the age of four years has been
passed.
Generally speaking, sheep bred and reared
under a mild, congenial climate will reach
a certain stage of dentition development
fully three months earlier than the same
breed reared under colder and damper con-
ditions. Therefore, if a buyer is determin-
ing the age of sheep by an examination of
the mouth he will be perfectly safe in allow-
ing a latitude of two to three months accord-
ing to the climate of the district from which
they come.
FEEDING BRACKEN.
“Curlew-” : Recently some w-i’iters, with a
show of authority, have been recommending
bracken as a fodder. Many years ago some-
thing was heard of proposals to exterminate
bracken by turning pigs upon if. The pigs
were to root the ferns out and fatten on
the roots. I have seen pigs rooting them
but never noticed that they improved in con-
dition —rather the reverse. The food value of
ferns is very slight. They cei’tainly contain
some starch, gum and saccharine matter,
also tannin, green fixed oil and resin, and
medicinal use is made of them, but as stock
food investigations carried out by H. R.
Seddon and T. T. McGrath prove bracken
absolutely harmful.
Stock rarely touch bracken except when
other food is scarce. After about a month
some may sicken and die, after being ill oniy
a few days. Post-mortem discloses ulcera-
tions of the stomach and intestines and
haemorrhage in various parts of the body.
The symptoms of illness are high fever and
diarrhoea. It has been found that death is
brought about by a microbe causing
haemorrhagic septicaemia. The microbe takes
no effect on healthy stock, but the lowered
vitality of an animal feeding on bracken
offers an opportunity for the disease to
develop. Emphatically bracken is not advis-
able as foddei-.
MECHANICAL IMPROVEMENT OF
PASTURE.
“Hatter”: However coarse and poor a
pasture may be it is remarkable that a cer-
tain amount of clover and fine grass will
invariably appear on the footpath and
trampled areas. The observation of this
fact, together with the noticeable improve-
ment in the subsequent pasture of a small
field in which a number of pit ponies had
been confined in wet weather during a coal
strike, led recently to the development of
experiments in England with results that
were decidedly striking.
In order to tear up the surface mat of
grass and punch it into the soil in a manner
similar to the trampling of a mob of cattle,
the ground was disc-harrowed while wet,
until the mat was completely cut to pieces.
It was then heavily rolled. This operation
was carried out in the spring and left the
land to all appearance bare and hopeless.
The mat, how-ever, quickly decayed in the
soil, and by the summer a carpet of white
clover covered the ground.
(Continued on j>age 32.)


The Handiest Outfit
yet designed
\
t
i
a m
For mending harness,
bending or cutting
pipe, sharpening
tools, grinding
ploughshares, boring
wood or metal,
blacksmith work,
and for an endless
variety of other jobs
this Handy Worker
is unbeatable.
Farmers will find it a real boon, and every other user of tools will
recognise its exceptional utility and value.
The Stewart Handy Worker includes tools that are used every day.
There is a strong, powerful Vyce, with jaws opening to 4tin. Ihe
jaws are 4in. in width, and will hold any wood or metal article rm y.
There is a Pipe Vyce which will take pipe up to l|in. in diameter,
and will grip it securely.
The Anvil is strongly and substantially made, and will stand a great
deal of hard work. A high-grade steel Cutting Hardie or Wedge is
provided for cutting wire or steel.
There is a Drill Press which can be operated at two speeds; two
Drills and a Rest to hold the job to the drill are included. Ihe
Carborundum Grinding Wheel will keep the edges of your tools in good
condition. It has three speeds direct, 4 to 1 and 16 to 1.
The materials used in the Stewart Handy Worker are of high quality,
so that the outfit may be depended upon to last a lifetime. The
gears are cut from the solid steel bar, so are the two cutting drills.
The outfit has no equal in design, quality and workmanship, and stands
alone for its utility. The mechanism that drives the Grinding Wheel
and the Drills can also be used to drive such extra attachments as a
Buffing Wheel, Scratch Brush, small Circular Saw, etc.
Weight of outfit, boxed for delivery, about 1 001 b.
Price £5/15/- each
Many other useful articles are shown in our Free 1929 Catalogue. Get a copy.
MCPKer
Proprietary Limited
on
“DEPENDABLE GOODS SINCE 1860.”
51-65 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
582-592 Collins Street, Melbourne. 116-130 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
s>
n
A
V
LIGHTING MODES
FROM AMERICA
An attractive electrolier is the central
feature of the room and completes the
good impression of walls, pictures and
furniture. So do smart wall brackets
for rooms or hall. We are showing
some handsome designs of both with
either upright candles or cluster bulbs
of great beauty, embodying French,
Spanish and Colonial period motifs, the
latest ideas from American homes.
You’ll see them at
DANKS’ DISPLAY OF
ELECTROLIERS AND BRACKETS
Prices are favorable. Call and inspect.
LA
gxicDq
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
391-403 ROURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
THE SUNSHINE AUTO HEADER
Self
Propelled
m
a
m ■ m
M w
MS *
' i 1
§1
i®
ill
m
12ft.
Cut
With a crew of two men, one to drive and one to tend the bagging, the Auto Header will harvest 40 acres in a day, on a petrol
consumption of half a gallon to the acre.
The Auto Header is renowned for its ability to harvest storm-flattened and thistle-infested crops.
The 4-cylinder engine is available for general belt work on the farm. When fitted with feed table and straw elevator, the Auto Header
makes a very efficient stationary thrasher.
Write for illustrated descriptive catalogue and particulars of price and terms to —
R V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE.
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES:
664 Bourke Street West, MELBOURNE. 95-97 North Terrace, ADELAIDE.
27-39 George Street West, SYDNEY. Corner Murray and King Streets, PERTH.
H. V. McKay (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, SOUTH BRISBANE.


BU
w
JR
IHfl
AT LEFT— Marquette's scientific
caliy angled windscreen, which
eliminates the glare of reflected
lights in night driving.
BELOW-—The supremely smooth
and powerful L-head motor of
we new Marquette develops 6?\
h.p. and affords a top speed of 68
to 7 o tu.p.h.
i
i jdiiii;
y'-w y .
HTHE Marquetil
moderately |
Buick engineers
Buick factories. It
Buick dealers. I
moderns . . . aha
in brilliance, in
truly a leader .
for leadership.
The introductio
no way affects the
great car will con;
fundamentals of c
which the world
and which have s
loyalty unparalleh
The addition of
afford more peopi
Buick’s conscienti
by that further
vast Buick dealer
Buick owners still
In the developr
General Motors hr
experience and rer
tive minds of the
the fact-finding
S\" :■


A
a new, brilliant,
d six, designed by
built in the great
old and serviced by
a modem of the
: its field in power,
iry, in beauty . . .
built by a leader
f the Marquette in
ick car itself. That
e to provide those
a and construction
>ciates with Buick,
/ Buick an owner-
motor car Jhistory.
- Marquette will
portunity to enjoy
craftsmanship, and,
onage, enable the
kanisation to serve
ter.
of the Marquette,
Buick’s
: <cs with the inven-
e arch Laboratories,
a oisation at the
Proving Ground, the. world’s greatest
talent in art and color and the resources
of great specialists in body design. It
has invested generously in new factory
space, machinery and materials.
In every respect, the Marquette is a
worthy addition to the General Motors
line ... a triumph of engineering . , .
a pioneer in better motor car value-giving.
It is new in name but backed by 26 years
of fine car building.
Go now to your local dealer see this
great and beautiful car . . . have its superlative
performance demonstrated to you ..... you
will never know Marquette until you have
ridden in and tried it. You are more than
welcome to put it through your own tests
. . . without obligation. Ask your nearest
Buick dealer to give you a trial ride
it will be a revelation.
PRICES from £365
Prices given subject to change without notice
Sold and Serviced by 'Buick 'Dealers everywhere
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR
Convenient payments can be arranged on the liberal Q.M.A.C. Terms Tlan
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER
GENERAL MOTORS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
'BRISBANE - SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - ADELAIDt - 'PERTH
iiiitii! m in s
a
BU I
m
BY
m
r
Jefore Marquette was offered
io the public, the most minute.
regard for petfectiSn was sat- I
fsfted. The new car measured
up to the highest expectations.
It performed as no, other car
of such moderate price had
eyer performed. It showed by
actual miles travelled that if
could stand up to the stifftst
;. grind of day-in ahd day-out
operation without interrup-
lions for service. Tt proved by
.pyery thing it did * . - and by ;
.the way it did tt that it
4 > had that e&txa measure of built-
in goodness that has made
*' Butck-built" the hallmark of
quality the wide world over.
Before it was offered to the
public, it was definitely estab-
lished as a car capable of ful-
filling the task for which Bukk
built it ... to bring true
Bukk quality to that great
group of motorists who seek'
their car at lower-than-Buick
price. ' A,'*?
HH|
.
,,
- . v :
:
: : ; :
■ 5 ' v '
WL


d
A light shoe, toughly
soled
A special Abbey style, flexible
and easy-fitting. The sweep of
the upper brings it low at back
of ankle—and so it fits more
comfortably and closely.
As the illustration plainly shows,
the instep arch will not be
cramped in this shoe. Its upper
is designed to lace in a natural
curve over the foot.
The smartly-cut heel and general
dressiness of appearance make
this Abbey shoe ideal for semi-
formal wear.
Order by post.
Three fitting s—narrow, medium
and wide—are available in full
and half-sizes. Specify width
needed and order, also, a supply
of the correct Abbey Preserva-
tive Polish (6d. per tin).
PATENT LEATHER . . . 50/-
TAN WILLOW CALF . . 427-
BLACK BOX CALF 39/6
Enlarged catalogue of men's and women’s
footwear post free.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
FPL 141
X
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
ď
Perfection
RUBBER
HERE’S THE WIENEKE
H
The New
Cattle King
Poley
£l2/12/-
SEND FOR NEW
CATALOG.
JOHN WIENEKE
371 George St.,
Sydney.
đ
d
Always Look Your Best
Cuticura Will Help You
By keeping your skin fresh and youth-
ful and your hair live and healthy.
The Soap is pure and cleansing, ideal
for every-day use, while the Oint-
ment is soothing and healing to
irritations. Cuticura Talcum is the
ideal toilet powder.
Soap Is., Talcum ls.3d. f Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment address:
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.”
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
dJ
Martin Ditcher
Most useful farm implement
in Australia. Quickly saves
the cost, £35, in speed, effi-
ciency and wages. Ditches,
levels, irrigates, drains, re-
claims, builds and repairs
roads, etc.
J. B. WALLIS LTD.
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney
499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
168 Edward Street, Brisbane
T. T. Building, Light Street, Adelaide
Padbury Building, Forrest Place, Perth.
KANGAROO” SHEEP GATE
REGISTERED No. 17494/28.
I
IV/lm
a***’'
HU
Designed for sheep-pens or
draughting yards to facilitate
the handling of flocks. The gate has one bottom hinge to the back
guard, on which it works, and is simply thrown across into the
long catch bar, which holds it securely.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM THE MANUFACTURERS:—
D. S W. CHANDLER LTD.
BRUNSWICK STREET,
FITZROY, VICTORIA.
An analysis of the grasses before treat-
ment showed that the large proportion com-
prised agrostis, crested dog's-tail and sheep’s
fescue. After treatment quite three-quarters
of the herbage consisted of smooth-stalked
meadow grass, crested dog’s-tail and white
clover. More surprising still was the dis-
covery that a small portion laid up for hay
was found later to yield an excellent crop of
perennial rye grass and clover. It was
difficult to convince visitors that neither
seed nor fertiliser had been used.
The explanation is thought to lie in. the
root habit of the plants concerned. The
original coarse grasses were of a surface-
rooting type and formed an impenetrable
mat. Rye grass and clover, on the con-
trary, root deeply. Thus either tearing up
the surface made moisture available for the
latter plants, or the packing of the surface
made conditions unfavorable for the former.
The growth of clover on the footpath sup-
ports the second theory.
Another experiment on similar lines was
undertaken to observe the effect of removing
a heavy mat of rough herbage consisting
chiefly of bent, Yorkshire fog, tussock and
mat grass. Heavy drag-harrows, with a
straight line and weighted with paving-stones
to prevent bouncing, were drawn over the
grassland by a tractor. The mat was com-
pletely dragged out and left on the surface,
after which it was occasionally stirred by
the chain-harrow till it decayed. The soil
was consolidated by rolling and the result
was a marked improvement in the herbage
the first summer. Large patches of white
clover appeared and the sorrel and coarser
grasses diminished. It seems, however, that
the more effective method is to cut up the
mat and mix it with the soil, and various
implements are being tested to discover the
best type of machine for this purpose.
AT THE QUEENSLAND SHOW.
A visit to the Queensland Show was a
liberal education in what Queensland has
done and what it is going to do. If there
were any among the immense crowds who
had lost faith in the great north-eastern
State what they saw must have restored
it to them. Among farmers, graziers and
manufacturers alike there is a feeling
that Queensland is on the eve of great
developments. The motor people share the
general spirit of optimism. They spread
their best in cars, tractors, waggons and
the like before country visitors. C. C. M.,
Ltd., presented an alluring array of Stude-
baker and Oakland cars in their spacious
showrooms.
_ The machinery exhibits were very attrac-
tive. The Queensland Machinery Co.’s dis-
play of refrigerators, lighting sets, farm-
pump engines and oil engines revealed how
the farmer is assisted by modern invention
and improvements. The Copeland electric
refrigerator, the Eureka milking plant, the
Phelps electric-lighting plant and the Hart-
Parr tractor were exhibited by Clark Fauset,
Ltd. —a display which held a multitude of
farmers. The Brown and Broad Newstead
Homes, Ltd., offered country people suburban
dwellings at moderate cost, specialising in
durable redwood, well seasoned and cut to
size and design ready for erection.
Electric-light and power plants were
also intensely interesting to the man on the
land. The famous Westinghouse power and
light plant was shown by Elphinstone, Ltd.;
the outfit can be purchased on easy terms.
Exide and Clyde batteries for radio, car-
and farm-lighting systems, which help to
solve battery problems, were also in evidence.
Buzaeotts’ Ringnot field fence for sheep,
cattle and pigs caught the eye. A galvanised
enclosure packed in five-chain rolls, it is easy
to erect and inexpensive—few posts are re-
quired. The wires are all strained to equal
tension at once and cannot slip. Buzaeotts
also specialise in the Sanitary Simplex
milker and the Baltic separator, two dis-
tinctive helps to the dairy-farmer.
J. B. Chandler and Cos. exhibited many
useful things. Their Kitchenkook is anew
departure in cooking apparatus. This inven-
tion makes its own gas from ordinary motor-
spirit.
The Queensland Pastoral Supplies offered
a variety of horse- and cow-rugs, guns, rifles,
auto-screw droppers and fencing-wire. The
Q.P.S. carries a comprehensive stock in all
departments for the man on the land.
The 1.8. C. (Intercolonial Boring Cos.)
showed Simplex windmills —very high-class
mills—also storage tanks made to any size
desired. The equipment for the pastoralist
and farmer carried by the 1.8. C. includes
pumps, hauling and lifting gear, sheep- and
cattle-troughing, Petter engines and sundry
tools. This well-known Queensland firm’s
works at Yeerongpilly are capable of turning
out any class of work required for the
industries of the soil.
Palings’ display in the Industrial Pavilion
provided music and variety. The Victor,
Maxim and Wertheim player-pianos were
greatly admired. The man on the land is now
brought closer to the city by means of car,
radio and player-piano; Palings’ pianolas
are procurable on a small deposit and easy
terms.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Contract price per ton for picking sul-
tanas, currants and gordos in Vic.? (2)
Number of dip buckets filled with green fruit
required to make one ton of dried fruit? —
(1) Usual contract prices are 2d. per dip
tin for currants and Id. per dip tin for sul-
tanas and gordos. The tip tin averages about
221 b. of grapes in the case of sultanas and
gordos and a little more for currants. (2)
Asa rule, 350 to 380 dip tins of currants
and 380 to 400 of sultanas and gordos.
Cost of picking by contract would, at the
above prices, work out at between £2 18s. 4d.
and £3 2s. 6d. per ton of dry currants, and
£1 11s. Bd. and £1 13s. 4d. in the case of
sultanas and lexias.
Cure for scours in cattle 12 to 24 months
old?, —1860.
Scours is not a disease but a symptom,
and the first essential to successful treatment
is the discovery of the cause. An aperient
should be given at the outset, the best for
cattle being one pint of raw linseed oil and
lib. of treacle. Subsequent to this the fol-
lowing mixture should be used: Bismuth!
carbonatis, 20 grains; tincturae camphorae
cq., and tincturae cinnamoni, £ draclim of
each. Add 4 drachms of aquae chloraformi.
Mix and make a draught. Give one table-
spoon in flour gruel every five hours until
relieved. The same mixture may be used for
black scours in calves, but in advanced cases
the aperient first mentioned is contra-indi-
cated, as it would only increase the weakness
of the patient.
(1) Cause of milk fever in coins? (2)
What effect has pumping air into the udder?
(3) Is the disease recurrent? (4) Is it
advisable to millc a cow right out when suffer-
ing from this complaint? —lßS9.
(1) Not definitely known. One theory is
that it is due to deficiency of glycogen in
the blood ; another is that it is due to defi-
ciency of calcium (lime). (2) Until the exact
cause is known it is not possible to determine
how air pumped into the udder effects a
cure. (3) Yes. (4) Not advisable.
(1) What is the average and the range of
prices ruling in Melbourne for all classes of
horses ? —2383.
(1) Prices for the year ending June 30,
1928, were as follows: Extra heavy draught,
from £37 to £4O 10s., average £3B 155.;
medium draught, £27 10s. to £3O, average
£2B 155.; delivery cart, £l3 to £ls, average
£l4 55.; Indian remounts, £l9 to £2O 10s.,
average £l9 12s. 6d.; saddle and harness,
£4 10s. to £6, average £5 2s. 6d.; ponies,
£7 10s. to £8 10s., average £8; other cart
horses, £8 to £lO, average £9 ss.
(1) In connection with the N.S.W. Land
and Valuation Appeal Court who paps costs
and what would be approximate costs in-
curred by a settler who appeals? (2) Will
the Court sit in the district where an appeal-
ing settler resides? —2163.
(1) Asa rule the principle of costs fol-
lowing the event is observed in all courts;
that is, the appellant, if successful, gets his
costs, but it is all within the discretion of
the Court and the amount allowed is deter-
mined according to the circumstances. (2)
The Act provides that “The Court shall sit
at such places as the Judge shall direct.”
Ask the local Land Board.
A drew in a ballot a N.S.W. settlement
lease. B acquired a special lease adjoining
the land leased by A, who rabbit-netted his
section without receiving any payment from
B. C purchased A’s lease and converted into
c.p. and lease. D purchased the special lease
from B and converted it into c.p. and lease.
Can C claim a contribution towards the fence
from D? There is a surveyed road along
the fence. —1855.
The Pastures Protection Act provides that
“the right to receive a contribution shall
vest and the liability to pay the same shall
arise when the then occupier or owner of
the holding gives to the then owner of the
land outside the holding the prescribed notice
of demand.” This notice is required to have
been served within 12 months of the com-
pletion of the work. The Act does not appear
to have been complied with in this respect.
The intervention of a road does not prevent
holdings or lands being taken to be adjoining,
or prevent q claim for contribution if the
fence has been used, or, in the opinion of the
local Land Board, can be reasonably used as
a common boundary-fence by the owners or
occupiers on either side.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Esau” : When rats infest your barn try
sprinkling flowers of sulphur round the
walls.
“Tenter”: When your underground con-
creted tank leaks and you cannot find a crack,
paint it with raw linseed oil. Let it dry
thoroughly before refilling.
“Davey Solong” • Tack pieces of old
motor-tubing to the heads of your drafting
gates, and it will facilitate work consider-
ably. There will be no knocking, no jar,
and, consequently, no frightening of sheep
when the gate is suddenly closed.
“Spudder”: A good rotation for potatoes
in suitable districts is potatoes, malting
barley, oats for hay, and then potatoes again.
In districts where barley and oats flourish, it
has been found that such crops have a
remarkably beneficial effect on potatoes.
“Lcdraw”: If mares that have not long
foaled are hard-worked, trouble will result
through the foal obtaining over-heated milk
and thus being made liable to scour. If it
is necessary to work the mares they should
be allowed to cool down before they have
access to their foals, and the first milk should
be withdrawn from their udders.
“Squaremile”: Here’s a fair substitute
for skim-milk for calves: Wheatflour, 301 b.;
cocoanut-meal, 251 b.; nutrium, or a soluble
skim-milk powder, 201 b.; oil-meal, 101 b.; and
dried blood, 21b. Mix in warm water at
the rate of lib. of the mixture to 5 pints
of water. For the first few weeks a pint and
a half of the mixture per day is sufficient
for each calf.
“P.F.”: When peach-trees become badly
diseased with curly blight, and infested with
aphides despite all your spraying, don’t dig
them out. Cut them back and dig a trench
7in, or Sin. deep, with a radius of about 3ft.,
all round them; sprinkle in about 21b. of
washing-soda and slaked lime in equal pro-
portions, and fill in the trench. For several
years afterwards you will have healthy trees
bearing a maximum amount of fruit. But
don’t neglect the spraying.
“Wrash”: Recent experiments in the
Tumbarumba district (N.S.W.) have gone to
show that spraying with sodium chlorate
will effectually destroy St. John’s wort if
a 10 per cent, mixture of the chemical with
water is employed. The cost worked out
at 335. per acre. Sodium chlorate has the
further advantage of not being poisonous
to stock. It dissolves readily, and does not,
like arsenical weedicides, injure the soil.
“Economy”: Here’s a formula for a paint
for galvanised roofs that will keep off some
of the sun’s heat. Get a clean kerosene-tin
full of water and add unslacked builders’
lime until it reaches the consistency of fairly
thick cream. Boil it up and throw in one
handful of Liverpool salt and one handful
of brown sugar and stir until thoroughly
mixed. It is then ready for use, and must
be applied at once with a large whitewash
brush. I have always found one coating
sufficient. It must be applied on a dull,
cloudy day and allowed to dry slowly. It
dries a beautiful white, and will last about
two years without renewing.


CO
Take our
petitors’ word
for it!
1
m
9!
<p.
You have four sources of
information regarding auto-
mobile values —
(1) the manufacturer,
(2) the dealer,
(3) the owner —and
(4) those who sell
competitive cars.
Dodge Brothers say that the
new Dodge Brothers Six is
the best car they have ever
presented; Dodge Brothers
dealers say that it is the best
car they have ever sold;
owners say that it is the
greatest value they have ever
purchased.
And, fair-minded competi-
tors will tell you that it is
the most formidable rival
they have ever known.
This consensus certainly
makes the new Dodge Bro-
thers Six too good a car for
you to overlook. Your local
dealer will tell you all the
facts regarding this remark-
able automobile. Then check
them up with a demonstration.
And remember that your
present car and a small
monthly payment will put a
new Dodge Brothers Six in
your hands.
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS.
New South Wales . Harden & Johnston Ltd., Sydney
Victoria Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Austral Motors Limited, Brisbane
South Australia Waymouth Motor Company Ltd., Adelaide
Western Australia . . . Winterbottom Motor Company Ltd., Perth
New Zealand Northern Automobiles Ltd., Auckland
Co-operatire Motors Ltd., 131 Collins Street, Hobart »
Tasmania
New
Dodge Brothers six
d
Chrysler Motors product
•CBSOS


EXTRA HIGH GRADE
SMO&t.NQ TOBBGGO
its
'ualit
is
Unequalled
19 per 2oz Tin
ď
Why be satisfied with less?
SHARE in the benefits that P. & C. Assurance brings ! When times
are hazardous the company keeps policies in force ; a definite
sum is set aside each year for loan purposes. P. &C. policies
are planned to meet the special needs of the man on the land—these
are the things that have resulted from the co-operative basis of the
P. &C. The further fact that the company is linked with the most
influential co-operative bodies in the Commonwealth is yet another
factor in the stability of the company. When such advantages can
be obtained at no extra cost, why be satisfied with less ?
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C, Man. Director: H. Fell
PRODUCERS V CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD,,
221-225 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
MAN
đ
NEWS
d
< S7ze
‘Mexican’
Riding
Boot'x.
IK
32/6 <? air
Made to our own exclusive and
patented design (Reg. 5 5 9 o).
Has two-fold strapped lops--
Buckles closely round ankle~
fits any instep-prevents grass
seeds and sand getting into the
Boot. Black Calf-Black Wal-
laby •'-Tan Calf. All sizes, Tost/ree
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street, (Brisbane
SMOKE-OH!
“No Hughes is good news.”
Remark attributed to the Prime Minister
on learning that his North Sydney admirer
had missed another train to Canberra.
¥ ¥
“Many pretty spots exist along the curse of the
Yarra” —Melbourne Age.
In common fairness, though, it should be
said that the river only acquires a real curse
when it reaches Melbourne.
FOR USE ON JURORS.
I ask you, gentlemen, in the name of
commonsense can y0u....?
As sensible business men can you. . .. ?
As experienced men of the world can
you ?
As mothers’ sons can you.. .. ?
As fathers of innocent daughters can
you ?
As ordinary every-day citizens can
you ?
You were young yourselves once, now can
y0u....?
T. S. McN.
¥ ¥
“What is the correct gas position?”—Age.
Parliamentary authorities impartially favor
sitting, standing and (for interjections only)
reclining on the back.
¥ ¥
“Dominions at Geneva: Split Deported.”
Sydney Sun.
Prime Minister Bruce is said to be ap-
pointing another £15,000 commission to find
out if similar action can be taken against
any split that may occur in the Nationalist
party.
(1) GRANDMA COMES TO TOWN AND (2) STAYS SIX
MONTHS.
“Science can now weigh the strength of a man’s
desires.”
Hence such songs as “The Bankers
Weighed !”
¥ *
“John Anger disappeared from his home in Long-
canon (Texas) four years ago, and nothing has
since been heard of him.”
Yet the world goes on without a trace of
anger.
THE WORLD-SAVER.
It’s love that makes the world go round —
We’re all agreed on that;
And it is likewise love that keeps
lThe thing from going flat.
Mephisto.
¥ ¥
“Manipulated Bundy: Trick That Failed.”
—Sydney News.
No good to Bundy evidently.
THE OUT-OF-DATE MELODY.
“In Divorce: Ditty v. Ditty—desertion.”
It is no doubt a pity,
But that’s our fickle way;
The most applauded ditty
Must always have its day.
¥ ¥
“How will the jousters in the Federal Parliament
look when they meet for the next mellay?”
—Sydney Guardian.
“Way shall say,” was the terse comment
of our Mediaeval Editor.
“Mr. Hughes can do what he likes with Mr.
Bruce.” — Sun.
Not in the present state of the law with
regard to homicide.
¥ *
THE BETTER PART.
The Barnettsteins were fired by the pro-
posal to send a Hebrew battalion to Pales-
tine. “Go, my poy!” said old Sol to his
son. “Enlist against these Arabs. You’ll
CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE.
MRS. BEN DE GO: “Mr. Phlues seems passionately fond
of animals.”
ME. SYD KNEE: “I shouldn’t have thought that.”
MRS. BEN DE GO: “Oh yes! Often even when he gallops
he throws his arms around his horse’s neck.”
be fighting for a great principle.” The
lad’s fine dark eyes lighted up. “I’d rather
stay with you, father,” he said, “and fight
for a big interest.”
¥ ¥
OPERATIC GLOSSARY.
“Miserere Scene” —6 p.m. (“Time, please,
gents.”)
“Mad Scene” —6.1 p.m. (“Come on, gents.,
yer can’t have no more!”).
“All hail thou dwelling!”—Apostrophe by
basic-wager to a comfortable s.c. cottage to
be let at 15s. per \seek.
“Anvil Chorus” —Performed on original at
odd times between strikes.
S. W. K.
¥ *
TRAPPED.
“It’s no use trying to escape—you’re
trapped!”
The lad faced his
elderly, dark-vis-
ag e d adversary.
There was dread in
his eyes.
“But but ,
surely there’s some
way out.”
“Not a chance in
life,” snapped the
other. “My men
have got you sur-
rounded.”
Beads of per-
spiration stood on
the y oungster’s
brow. Ilis anxious
eyes rested on the
speaker’s grim
countenance, but he
saw no hope of
mercy there.
“I see,” said he
at length. “You’ve
got me cornered all
right. I know it’s
hopeless trying to
move. You win
this time, but,”
and his tired eyes
blazed, “I’ll get
even with you yet.”
The other chuck-
led sardonically.
“You’ve still got a lot to learn about
draughts,” he boasted.
Sap.
¥ ¥
Lives of great men now remind us
Should we voice unsanctioned views
Party doors will slam and find us
Left outside with Billy Hughes.
M. G.
“Finally, Archbishop Kelly emphasised the
sanctity of life, pointing out to the physicians the
command, ‘Thou shalt not kill.’ ” —S. M. Herald.
Nevertheless, strong protests may be
expected from the undertakers at any organ-
ised move to hamper the activities of their
principal suppliers of raw material.
MORE “SAFETY FIRST.”
HIM: “What would you do if I give you a hundred to call it off?”
HER: “Count it!”
“Half-crown Men’s Trousers.” —Melbourne Herald.
“The question is,” debated the neglected
spinster, “would a two-and-sixpenny man be
worth clothing?”
¥ *
“Charged with creating a disturbance in a hotel,
John Young, seaman, said he objected to hairs in
his glass.
In short, he loved beer, but when he had
beard he hated the taste of it.
CESSNOCK VERSION.
Old King Coal it:as a merry old soul
With a prosperous industry.
Now half his subjects are on the dole
And he’s dying in misery.
D. McM.
WHEN TORTURE ENDS.
I’ve known the bliss, too deep for words,
after being sick at sea,
As the rolling ship dropped anchor in
the lee of a sheltered shore;
But I’ve never been so thankful, and I never
hope to be,
As I am when the Great Wurlitzer man
sinks slowly through the floor.
BLOGGS.
SINCERE FLATTERY.
“The ingenious example set by Major-Gen. MeCay
in writing for the Meh.ourne Argus of his military
exploits in the third person, and without mentioning
his name, is likely to be widely imitated. It offers
opportunities for ” frank speech which the autobio-
graphical method does not.” —Victorian weekly.
By W. M. Hughes:—
Detractors of a distinguished statesman,
the greatest for sheer brain power that our
Empire has so far produced, have had the
effrontery to deny him (though not, for-
tunately for themselves, to his face) the
possession of the gentler qualities.
They say, forsooth! that he lacks sweet
reasonableness, benevolence, the Divine
virtue of charity. And in so saying they
lie. To blazes with them!
Others, yammering and blithering in the
viperous secrecy of their party rooms, dare
to accuse him of office-hunger. Ye gods,
that such infamy should be! With his accus-
tomed quiet dignity of manner and reticenee
of speech this celebrated Australian is pro-
ceeding, in complete indifference to the foul
aspersions of the envious, in the direction
of that goal to which a grateful Empire
points—the Prime Ministership.
By Signora Slinkie Mona, the World-
famous Movie Star (now resting in Aus-
tralia) :
When the Talkies began, knockers said as
how Moviedom’s Loveliest Goil would be hot
and bothered over her accent —in plain Eng-
lish, all of a doo-dah. Were she? Oh, boy!
Did she wow ’em? And how?
Lookit, folks, when that there lil goil
slammed on the tall millinery and planted
herself in front of the Talkie apparahtus,
Mo Arsonstein sez, sezzee: “The femme’s
a ritzy push-over.
She sure knows her
groceries.” Th a t
was when this goil
starred as Lady Eva
Plantagenet in “Old
England,” the five-
million dollar all-
Talkie what ruined
the A r sonstein
gang.
So if any of you
big business boys
wants a sekkafary
or store dark, or
sumfin, why you
got the baby’s
’phone number.
By Mr. J. T.
Lang:—
The hero of this
sketch began his
career as an estate-
agent in a genteel
suburb. Environ-
ment completed
that which Nature
had begun. He be-
came a cultured
Australian gentle-
man. Of mild
appear ance and
courteous bearing,
he has ever been
punctilious in
avoiding so much
as the faintest sus-
picion of political
trickery. Gov-
ernors love him.
He has made no
mistakes—any that he may seem to have
made were the work of others —and he will
shortly resume his rightful place as Premier
of his State, amidst the respectful plaudits
of all but capitalistic grinders of the faces
of the virtuous noor.
10-2-4.
FINANCIAL STRATEGY.
“I’m five millions short,” said the Trea-
surer.
“What about those taxes on beer, tobacco,
motor-cars and the movies?” inquired the
Prime Minister.
“They’ll never be paid. Protests in the
form of letters, telegrams, postcards, coupons
and ’phone calls are pouring in. The affected
interests are issuing a free telegraph form
to every picture patron. There is a free
letter-card with every
motor-car, and a franked
envelope with every packet
of smokes. We’re beat."
“Never,” shouted the
Prime Minister. “Cancel
the lot, and put new taxes
on pony racing, high heels,
spats, cocaine, vacuum-
cleaners, Poms, Wurlit-
zers and ukuleles.”
The Treasurer hurried
to obey. Two days later
he returned more de-
jected than ever. “Worse
and worse!” he moaned.
“Every hot saveloy is now
wrapped before sale in a
protest pamphlet urging
the eater to write or wire
to his member. The same
with spats, cocaine, Poms
and Wurlitzers. Abusive
threats are arriving by
the million”
“Switch the taxes
again,” yelled the Prime
Minister. “Change to Per-
sian cats, surf-bathing, the
flapper press, lawn-mowers
and Billy Hughes.”
“Useless!” said the
Treasurer, “In three days
they’d be delivering our
mail in pantechnicons.”
“Exactly,” and the
Prime Minister winked.
“And by the time the
P.M.G. has coined enough
from them we’ll be ready
to start the round all over
again. If we can only
keep it going for another
month or two it should
pay for Canberra.”
NOMDY PLOOM.
THE ANTI-GAMBLER.
The loving pair iverc duly wed,
And thereupon the bridegroom said
Unto the parson, “Shall I pay
Your customary fee to-day?
Or would yon have me wait a year,
When you shall have a tenner clear
If we two find the married state
As happy as you estimate?”
The holy man did not allow
A moment’s thought to crease his brow.
He said: “I’ll have my payment now.”
T. S. BROWNELL.


lit THE-
STATECXPREfS
CICARETTE:!
ao&'its *
1


W/a
m
m
i
. /
V.'/
f.t
V/.
U
7a
f.t
a
i
vA
m
1
111
t
m
\m
I
1
p
//
Wm
m
m
m
m.
%
pg|
%
m
mm
rrfssfrrr
u
m
Sa
H
I
*
m I mm n
*
t
I
mmm*
m.
»
'ML
1
ir
1
W
i
ft
il 11
m
HE hat superior ! It is a
MILLS! There is no doubt
as to this in the minds of
those who have judged its
very evident merits! In-
comparable workmanship
and finish vie for leading points with
attractive moulding and smartly curved
brim ! Don’t hesitate ! Let your choice
be—now and always —the hard-wearing,
shape-retaining MILLS 1
flat flat suits uourlersonci
Obtainable at all the
leading Men’s Stores
A PRODUCT OF UNITED FELT HATS PTY. LTD.
Ml 6.


lecalemiT
LUBRICATING
GUNS
d
Any machine can be fitted
for a few pence per point
with Tecalemit Lubrication.
YOU SAVE MONEY
in man hours, lubricant and renewals by so doing.
TECALEMIT SERVICE STATIONS:
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street Perth
Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street Adelaide
Keep Bros. & Wood Pty., Ltd., Bateman Street Melbourne
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt Street Sydney
Martin, Wilson Bros., Ltd., 299 Adelaide Street Brisbane
Factory Representative: Mr. JAMES THORNELL, 312 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
TECALEMIT, LTD., Mitre House, Scrubbs Lane, London, N.W. 10., England.
Through several generations of
master and man/ Stuarts of
Stourbridge/ England/ have
made and cut fine crystal
The old/ traditional methods
remain: the same patient/ lov=
ing skill is expended on every
piece that bears the etched
name y/ Stuart —that guar-
antee off la wless craftsmanship.
:m - ■
m
t
English Hand=made Crystal
Obtainable wherever beautiful glass is sold
ONE FREEHOLD ACRE
Planted with 680 Pinus Insignia trees, estimated to produce in 10 years £250 for an outlay
of £3O (in easv instalments)—this alone should be sufficient inducement to purchase a Bond
in DOMINION FORESTS’ ISSUE.
BUT
When a FREE LIFE ASSURANCE POLICY FOR
added, the investment is unique. A DOMINION
£250 covering a period of 10 years is
FORESTS’ BOND OFFERS YOU THIS.
BE A BONDHOLDER. NO YEARLY PREMIUMS.
NO MEDICAL EXAMINATION.
Cover the Life Risk whilst the trees grow.
Write for Prospectus to PACIFIC UNDERWRITERS,
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Sale Brokers for DOMINION FORESTS, LTD. (an Australian Company Planting in N.Z.).
COWBOY SADDLERY OUTFITS.
rr
THE
“TEXAS
RANGER
SADDLE,
£l3/13/-
No. 73. LEATHER
CHAPS, as illustrated,
with Nickel Conchas
and Fringe, 91/-. With-
out Conchas, 857-
FANCY STUDDED
BRIDLE, with Gold
Color Cowboy Bit with
Nickel Horse-head, 76/-
Fancy Breastplate to match .... 75/-
Write for Catalogue of our Australian
and Texas Saddlery.
WALTHER $ STEVENSON, LTD
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ď
Box 785 G.
Pen and Picture
The
STATE
THEATRES
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
Shadow Shows
The permanent love affair of Greta Garbo
with various deliriously handsome heroes of
the screen is continued in “Wild Orchids”
(M.-G.-M.), a play which is ostensibly
placed in Java. The object or victim of
Miss Garbo’s affections this time is Nils
Asther, in the role of a Javanese prince,
who wears his head-dress back to front, no
doubt a prerogative of royalty. Miss Garbo’s
husband, Lewis Stone, is so anxious to kill
a tiger that he is blind to the fact that the
lady is craving for love and understanding of
the respectable sort, and, since she cannot get
it, is in danger of succumbing to the attacks
GRETA GARBO.
being made
lipon her vir-
tue with quite
un - Javanese
persistence by
Nils Asther.
They take up
their residence
in suitable
Oriental splen-
dor at the
Prince’s palace,
and the lius-
band goes
hunting tigers
on an elephant,
as they cer-
tainly do in
India but not
in Java. Re-
turning unex-
pectedly h e
catches his
wife and the
Prince in an
amorous em-
brace, where-
upon the hus-
band takes his Highness out hunting, this
time on foot and at night-time. Apparently
ligted by a 1000-c.p. firefly, they creep
through the jungle and in due course put up
a tiger. The Prince then discovers that the
white man has handed him an unloaded shot-
gun, so he falls an easy prey to the man-
eater. However, Greta’s lovers must not be
too despitefully used, and he gets only a
mauling, after which Miss Garbo is reconciled
to her husband. You could fill a book with the
absurdities in this picture, but if the
admirers of Miss Garbo find any fault with
the story it will be over the quality of the
lady’s loving, which is so subdued as to be
almost old-maidenly.
“Sal of Singapore” (P.D.C.) purports
to be a reelisation of Australian Dale Col-
lins’s “The Sentimentalists.” Not having
read the latter work for the reason that he
heard it was inferior to “Ordeal,” present
writer will say nothing on that aspect. As
a picture the yarn has a wry twist to its
tail, which compensates for much obvious
slobber and tedium early in the spasm. The
wry twist comes when one shipmaster, hav-
ing burgled another shipmaster’s prospective
bride, sets out from ’Frisco to take her to
Singapore. The bereaved sea captain
promptly casts off and follows, and a ding-
dong race between the two ocean tramps
results in the pursuer laying alongside his
enemy in mid-ocean and boarding him. There
is a grand naval battle destined never to
appear in any country’s annals, which ends
in the knight-errant knocking out the thief
and getting his girl back again. Fie then
orders one of his sailors to throw a bucket
of water over the stunned gentleman, who
is next invited, being a captain and on
the high seas, to marry them. Phyllis Haver,
Alan Hale and Dan Wolheim are responsible
for most of the acting. Wolheim’s panto-
mime is very highly commended.
“Fashions in Love” (Paramount) is simi-
lar to all other Adolphe Menjou productions,
except that here the pseudo-Parisian candle,
about which the society moths flutter, opens
its mouth and talks. Menjou is a great,
though married, pianist with whom ail the
ladies, including the beauteous Mrs. Martin,
fall in love. Mrs. M. presses her suit more
closely to him than the others, and he takes
her away to his cabin in the mountains.
(Suggestion that he has taken many another
wife there. Loud and prolonged sniggers.)
Meanwhile Mr. Martin calls upon Menjou’s
missus. He has heard of the flit to the
cabin and fears the worst. The Menjou
lady is untroubled —she has had experience
of her spouse, and knows that he takes his
time to get to the worst. (Renewed snig-
gers.) She and Mr. Martin, by now think-
ing enough of each other not to be worried
by the other affair, arrive at the cabin, to
find, as she surmised, the worst has not yet
happened. Menjou, informed that lie can
have Mrs. Martin, suddenly loses what little
palate he ever had for that lady, and so
are both triangles turned back into squares.
It is all as faint as the scent of a pressed
clover-leaf, but Menjou’s acting is always
entertaining, and for a while in the cabin it
is staggeringly funny. Where the thinnish
part lets her, Miriam Seegar, as the beau-
teous bold blonde, is also effective.
United Artists’ version of “Sapper’s”
thriller, “Bulldog Drummond,” is chiefly
interesting for showing up one point at
which the novelist who trafficks in incredi-
bilities has the advantage over the film-
maker. Such a novelist has but to tell in
plausible words that such and such a thing
has happened, and the reader, making his
own pictures as he hastens along, can adapt
his literary maw to take in almost anything.
The film-maker, however, has to show the
unlikely thinsr actually happening—and so,
good-night! When a yarn like “Drummond”
is closely followed and the players act pre-
cisely as the people in the book act, the
result must inevitably be over-acting. Simply
because of this, there is not one character
in this film, from Ronald Colman down, who
does not overdo it heavily. The yarn is
incredible enough, anyway. An ex-army
officer, bored by inaction, advertises for
adventure, and gets it, helping a beauteous
maid to rescue her rich uncle from a brace
of demons and one demoness, who, by drug-
ging and torturing him, try to get him to
sign them his cash. An English country
mansion where they have him, a country
inn and lonely roads planned for motor-car
rescue and race are the setting. It is an
unadulterated thriller, and as such is a
brisk entertainer. Humor is one of its
strongest points, and rain m it is so real
that it can pretty well be felt.
The Palette
The art of R. G. Battarbee and J. A.
Gardner at the Athenaeum is giving Mel-
bourne some interesting glimpses of por-
tions of this continent few painters have
troubled themselves with before. The two
young Victorians set out in an old Ford
truck about two years ago in search of pas-
tures new, and eventually landed 400 miles
inland from Rockhampton. Their work has
artistic immaturity written all over it, but
on the whole it is a good deal more faith-
ful to its subject-matter than that of many
artists who never stray far enough from
Melbourne to qualify for a Sunday drink.
Some of Gardner’s oils in particular catch
the mysterious luminosity of the Central
Queensland gums, and there is a very clever
study of “Desert Rain” —which is dust by
the same man.
If by any chance E. J. Brady has lost
sight of his muse, he might find her shaking
the salt water out of her tresses in front of
one of Arthur Briscoe’s etchings at the
Macquarie Galleries, Sydney. An average
Brady chanty might well have been inspired
by such a lusty piece of sea. life as “The
Capstan,” and in every etching where the
artist has gone after action the sailor is
caught on the job as surely as every Brady
caught him, swaggering, or grimly at work
The three men on the yard in “Typhoon ’
claw at real strips of belting sail, and a ter-
rible wind rushes up through the rigging to
the ominious sky. A glimpse of fish-netting in
the Seine is quieter, but very much alive,
and an old story is told well in “Man Over-
board.” For life, dramatic force and truth
in atmosphere it would take a long search
to better “All Hands” —men nearly waist
deep in onrushing water hauling on a rope
that vanishes into a towering wave sweeping
broadside over the bulwarks. After such
vigorous things as all these, the sequestered
streets and trim architecture in Louis Rosen-
berg’s etchings in the same exhibition seem
tame.
“Hermes”: An old gentleman named
Platts, living in Victoria Park, a suburb of
Perth, has brought to light an oil landscape
which G. Pitt Morison, curator of the Art
Gallery, pronounces a genuine Turner,
though only a third-rate specimen. Platts
has had the painting for 13 years; he says
he bought it in England for £3OO at a shop
where Turner had pawned it in the long ago.
It is a strange story, and equally strange
is the fact that the octogenarian should have
kept the thing in a gloomy room in a cot-
tage for so many years without divulging
his ownership of the treasure.
The Inky Way
“John B.”: H. B. Whitham, of Western
Newspapers, Ltd., has added the Portland
(N.S.W.) Gazette to his collection. _ West-
ern Newspapers started in 1926 with the
Bathurst Times and the Forbes Gazette.
The Litligow Mercury, pride of Hon. Min-
ister Jimmy Ryan, followed, and then the
Parkes Post and the Trundle Star came in.
So the Gazette, which has been re-named
the Mercury, is the sixth of the chain.
“Sigs”: The craze for amalgamations has
extended to Central Queensland, where Rock-
hampton’s bright little penny Evening
News and its weekly, the Artesian, have
been taken over by the Morning Bueletin
people. George Westacott succeeds Ralph
Ainge Johnston as editor of the News ; the
plant will probably be shifted to the Bulle-
tin building and altered to take that paper’s
bigger pages. The Rockhampton Bulletin co.
now owns four of the city’s five papers.
“Lao-dah” : There was a touch of uncon-
scious humor in a Melbourne Herald com
ment on the projected tree-planting ceremony
at the Shrine of Remembrance: —
The lovers, who have been bitterly critical of
the destruction of trees on the Domain in prepara-
tion for the formation of the approaches, will be
reassured when they know the full plans for tree-
planting.
Presumably what the paper meant was
“tree lovers.” The other variety will b;
all married before the trees provide adequate
shelter.
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide Register has dug out
of its files a choice bit of 1850 journalism.
A wealthy citizen died, and had a tremendous
funeral. The paper, after describing his
good qualities and early promise, solemnly
added: —
He unhappily fell into habits of intemperance,
which beclouded the latter portion of his life. It
is consolatory to know that in his last moments h<
was able to express contrition, and his sorrowing
friends have hope in his death.
This candor brought a blast from a rival
journal (long since defunct) about “invasion
of the sanctity of private life” and a
public protest with over 150 signatures.
However, the father of the deceased said tin
notice was unfortunately too true, and the
incident closed, but not before the Register
had passionately accused the loathsome con
temporary of “one of the vilest, most
cowardly, and most diabolical conspiracies
that ever disgraced a community of English-
men.” Dickens was not drawing much on
his imagination when he wrote of the
Eatanswill newspapers in “Pickwick.”


XX
đ
/-s
o
2
S'
J
\
/
UNION
SUPER.
„ SPIRIT^
know a super spirit when I meet it. You
can’t trick an experienced carburettor. I
know the difference between ordinary motor spirit
and super spirit. And I know, too, that there’s
only one super spirit —it’s red, and it comes from
the Red, White and Blue pump. That’s Union.
(
JS
Union Super Spirit
is non-detonating—it ex-
plodes like smokeless
powder in a naval gun . . •
with a progressive and
sustained explosion. It
thrusts the piston down
with a powerful hut con-
tinuous impulse not a
sledge-hammer blow. This
means more compression,
more power, greater effi-
ciency, and more miles to
the gallon. It’s truly a
Super Spirit—and it’s RED.
« Since I’ve been fed with it I’ve felt years younger,
and the engine has begun to swank like a next
year’s model. Every part of the car is doing more
and better work—all except the gear selector,
he’s had a lazy life. On the hills where he was
previously called into action, now he’s forgotten,
for the Super Spirit sends us over the top on top.
" And red juice in the tank means reduced cost of running. Every
drop is full of power, and I’m the chap who ought to know.
Red Union Super Spirit is a comfort to a carburettor and an
inspiration to any engine. Fill up with Red Union and prove it.
.(jUNION
nan-ddmtaimg
SUPER SPIRIT
“ The Running Mate of Atlantic Motor Oil
fiSSS


Firearms sent C.O.D.
d
HI-POWER RIFLES will make the
KANCA-ROO THE BAY.
Savage, .22 Hi-power Rifles,
£lO/15/-, £ll/15/- and £l3
Savage 250/3000 Hi-power Rifles,
€ll/15/- and £l3
Mauser 6.5 M/M and 250/3000 Hi-power Rifles,
£l5. With Zeiss Telescope, £24
Mannlieher-Schonnauer 6.7 M/M Hi-power Rifles,
£lB/10/- and £2O. With Telescope, £3O
B.S.A. 303, Hi-Power Rifles,
£ll/15/- and £l4/10/-
Write for Catalogue.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
Gunsmith, Importer of High-grade Firearms,
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
’Phone MA3540,
1438 Elizabeth Street (near Market
Street), Sydney.
Welcome the Coming-*— Speed the Parting Guest with
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER,
RESCH’S SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
Ask for Resch’s by Name.
Western Australian Distributors:
TVTRNS. PHILP & CO.. LTD.. PERTH AND GERALDTON. [3
ď
Comfort & Service
at Low Cost
Quiet refinement, perfect service,
superior cuisine—these*things make
the Grosvenor a good place to live
in—for a day or forever. 300 rooms,
100 bathrooms, spacious lounge,
yale locks on every door. Tariff,
from £3/10/“.
GROSVENOR
cyldeiaides Finest U/diceJised . 'Hotel
Opp. Railway Sin Norfh Terrace. ADELAIDE.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Tardily following a good example set by
u Williamstown and Moonee Valley people,
the Canterbury Park club hung up‘£soo on
Saturday for a six-furlongs race, w.f.a. It
Avas repaid two or three times over by the
attendance, Avhich was bigger by thousands
than the average Canterbury Park crowd;
also, the field was large and mostly of high
quality, and the race was uncommonly
exciting.
Paganelli opened at even money but re-
i * to 4 Avith the backing of Margare-
thal (from sixes to threes), of Reonui (5
to 1), Fujisan (7 to 1) and Amounis (four-
teens to tens). With a favorable position
at the barrier Margarethal might have won,
but she had to hit the front (racing best
that .way) from a “bad marble,” and it took
iV,! 0 u. oUt i°f I her -„ -AR the same, she was a
length ahead of Paganelli entering the
straight and seemed to have a winning
chance until they reached the Leger, where
he got her measure. Then Paganelli was
tackled by Amounis, who had come with a
gieat rush on the outside, and a thriving
tussle ended in favor of the old horse by a
head Margarethal being three-quarters of a
length away third and Reonui fourth. The
time was lmin. 13sec.—no faster “six” has
been run on the course.
The hoisting of Amounis’s number was
(he signal for a violent outburst against the
judge, who was hooted for ten minutes. It
aa as unspeakably bad sportsmanship. Munro,
Avho rode Amounis, had no doubt about the
result, and the consensus of opinion of those
in the best position to see, apart from the
judge, was that if Amounis hadn’t Avon he
liadn t lost. _ For a stallion in his eighth
year Amoums is surprisingly well preserved,
and he is now assured of strong support fo"
las third Epsom, in which he has 9st. 13ffi.
Ut course, he will need a dry track if he
is to have a chance.
Lord Kennaquhair, favorite for the Sep-
tember Handicap, took the turns awkwardly,
and was beaten comfortably by Eden Hall
Ij, to 2), though he beat everything else,
ltoen Hall has now won three races in Aus-
traha—afl at Canterbury Park. Concen-
trate, the gelded brother to Oratrix, Avas an
unremarkable third. He wobbled a good bit
in the betting.
„ or meeting at Randwick on
Saturday:—
Novice Handicap: Palamon; next, King
William. ’ a
Tramway Handicap: Habashon; next,
Ramulus.
Spring Handicap: Spearman or Kavalli;
next, Tarapunga.
Chelmsford Stakes: Phar Lap; next,
Limerick.
Welter: Kavalli or Poitiers; next, Quince.
Jimmy Pike went over to Melbourne to ride
Albanian in the Memsie Stakes at Caulfield
on Saturday. When he finished second to
Highland in the Underwood Stakes on
August 24 the imported horse had Theo.
Lewis as pilot, and it was reckoned de-
sirable for Pike to become acquainted with
the animal before Cup time arrives. Con-
flicting views were formed regarding
Albanian’s failure. This writer isn’t dis-
posed to condemn. Sharp showers had
affected the track, and it took Imin. 56-ssec.
to cover nine furlongs—five seconds outside
Heroic’s local record. Reports that Albanian
had been no good in English mud probably
lessened stable confidence, and closing odds
were longer than those at which he opened.
Albanian (as at Williamstown) started
from the extreme outside, and seemed slow
to find his legs. Pike rushed him up to
Samaden after traversing three furlongs, and
the pair kept together until they swung into
the straight. Both faded out when High-
land joined issue. If this had happened on
a dry day the owner of Albanian could say
good-bye to the dream of a Caulfield Cup
success. On the whole it might be wise
to forget that the aristocratic neddy was
saddled up on Saturday.
Condition enabled Highland to follow up
his WilliamstoAvn victory. He conceded 151 b.
to Gallopade, and had that smart filly well
settled 50 yards from
home. High Syce, who
races in the same in-
terests as Highland,
put in a brilliant
finishing effort and
ran his stable-com-
panion to a long neck.
So far, the longest dis-
tance over which
Highland has com-
peted is 94 furlongs.
He might last out a
Caulfield Cup journey,
but High Syce proved
himself a stayer in
Queensland, and Mrs.
L. R. Buxton may pre-
fer him to her older
possession. Royal'
Charter acquitted him-
self less encouragingly
than at Williamstown.
However, Standard
Bearer, a half-brother,
also owned by J. M.
Niall, registered a
maiden triumph (at
eights) in the Doona
Trial.
The Holt-Duncan
confederacy carried off
the first two events.
Dominant, Avho fol-
lowed Standard
Bearer home, ran a
very promising race.
He realised 6750 gns.
at the Randwick year-
ling sales in 1928:
Cecil Godby purchased
the son of Saltash—
Weltea on behalf of
R. E. H. Hope, J.
Fell, F. Robinson, and
E. M. Pearce, who
use the collective nom
de course of “Ernest
Farquhar.” Dominant
did not run last sea-
son, having been gelded
and put aside. He
has only 7st.. lib. in the Caulfield Cup,
and Avill receive 101 b. from The Happy
Warrior, .who started at 5-2 for the
Doona Trial, but was unsighted. Another
conspicuous failure was the well-backed
Abbot’s Lad, belonging to A. P. Wade, of
Sydney, who was represented in the con-
cluding race by The Abbot. Both these
imported prads are sons of Abbot’s Trace
and had P. Maher atop.
Solitas is well-known to Sydney sports-
men, having annexed the A.J.C. Grantham
Stakes and finished second to Ramulus in the
Clibborn Stakes last spring. Heralded as
a likely Metropolitan winner, he Avas made
a hot favorite for the Heatherlie Handicap.
From the outset of his turf career Solitas
has been unruly at the barrier. He offended
again on Saturday, got away poorly, and
condemned Jack Daniels to an unwelcome
view of the galloping. Limber Up, one of
Holt’s string, reared as the tapes lifted, and
remained at the post. Claronga led through-
out, scoring easily from old Affirm, with
the Tasmanian, Prince Viol, third.
Claronga was a 15-to-l chance, and similar
odds could have been had about the Whittier
Handicap winner, Mystic Peak. The solitary
first favorite to catch the judge’s eye was
Seafit in the Sandringham Steeple. Hitting
a fence heavily, Bligny was pulled up.
Examination revealed that the Calais gelding
had fractured a stifle and he had to be
destroyed. Waicullus (10 to 1) lumped
lOst 21b. to victory in the Warriston Welter.
Former owner forgot to back him at Aspen-
dale a week before, and, in disgust, sold
him during the week, thus having double
cause for annoyance.
* * « *
“Bouragi”: Chief Sec. Argyle’s bill to
control racing in Victoria reduces the num-
ber of metropolitan meetings by 38 p.a. The
country lias been divided into eight areas,
and in future all meetings held therein save
mixed sports gatherings will have to be
licensed, the method of granting permits to
all and sundry having been sinfully abused.
Aspendale, Sandown, Richmond and Fitzroy
courses are to be closed, compensation being
provided for, and the schedule of meetings
at other clubs, including the Hunt Clubs, is
curtailed. Metropolitan clubs are to con-
tribute one half per cent, of their gross
revenue to a fund for improving country
courses. Meetings will be allotted to the
country districts by a special board. ITorse-
and pony-racing on Mondays is banned,
though the trots will be permitted. In future
the Government racing year will end on
July 31 instead of March 31.
* & $ *
For Moonee Valley on Saturday:—
Steeple : Sandhurst; next, Mosstrooper.
Budgeree Handicap: Finsbury; next,
Prince Viol.
“Ike O’Rook”: Britain has become so
enamored of tote betting that the machine
FIFTY-FIFTY.
SCRATCH MAN ( modestly ): “Bad luck you got me for a partner.
Been right off my game—hope you won’t mind?”
FLAPPER ( airily ): “Not at all. I’ve never played before.”
is now operating, not only at the sport of
kinks, but at golf matches and , kindred
obsessions. The latest development was
the opening of a mechanical Moses at the
Schneider Cup race over the Solent, several
plants having been installed at different
parts of the course to give everyone a
chance to get a little bit on. The betting
unit Avas 30 shillings, and the tote paid out
on the individual winner and on speeds per
hour nearest to tens from 270 to 360. Aus-
tralia is to have its own transcontinental
air-race to Perth shortly. Who’s going to
launch this country’s first air tote?
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Billy Grime surprised everyone at Sydney
Stadium cn Saturday night by gaining a
points decision over Yankee' Pete Sarrou
in a hard 15-round bout, in which the Aus-
tralian showed a lot of his old-time clever-
ness in attack and evasion. He caused a sen-
sation in the sixth round by dropping Sarron
with a rip to. the body that hurt the Yank
badly. The visitor returned the compliment
in the ninth round by upending Grime with
a hook to the jaw. Grime directed his main
attack to the body, while Sarron relied
mostly on his vicious right to bring him the
verdict. In the fourteenth round, Sarron let
loose a hurricane of punches from every
angle, but Grime gave an exhibition of duck-
ing and blocking that brought doAvn the
house. Weights were even at 9st.
Almost in tlie nature of an innovation
was. the boxing contest between featlicr-
weights Dick Corbett (England) and Johnny
Green (America) at Melbourne Stadium on
Saturday night. It never rose above medio-
crity. Johnny landed the few punches that
roused the handful of spectators from their
lethargy; he possesses a straight left that
wins fights, but not crowds and kudos. Cor-
bett on points.
Footbrawl
Despite inclement weather queues began
to form outside the Melbourne C. G. gates
at 10 on Saturday morning, and those who
got seats stayed till half-past five to see
‘B6 men boot a ball and slide in the mud.
Carlton and St. Kilda were battling out the
first semi-final, and when the last turnstile
clicked £3036 9s. 6d. had been gathered in
from 58,481 persons. Though neither side
touched premiership form, Carlton was
cleaner on the pick-up, better in the air and
showed moderate co-operation. St. Kilda
was keener and more dashing, but often two
or three would go up for the ball when no
opponent was near; that spelt disaster.
Carlton had the wind at first and ran up
29 points to 1. Carlton then got another
goal against the wind, and that roused St.
Kilda until at half-time the seaside club
was only 7 points in arrears. Battling vim-
.fully, St. Kilda went on to an 8-point lead.
Lack of understanding forward, lost chances
and Carlton’s steadiness and method finally
decided it: Carlton, 81 points; St. K., 73.
It is the first time St. Kilda has been in “the
four” since 1918, and the club has never
won a pennant, though it was second in 1913.
* :l: *
There was considerable relief in Rugby
League circles when the news came, through
that the Australian side in England had
won its first match. The opponent club,
Rochdale, is by no means one of the
Northern Union’s star combinations, but
the scores, 36-3, augur well for the Austra-
lian team’s future. Eight tries and 6 goals
were scored to a try.
* * * *
The Rugby League semi-finals saw South
Sydney and Newtown qualify for the decid-
ing round next Saturday. Against Western
Suburbs at the Sports Ground, South Syd-
ney, after being 10 points down early in
the game, put in a great finishing run, and
came out victors by 22 (6 tries and 2 goals)
to 10 (2 tries and 2 goals). West’s superior
hooking was responsible for the side’s good
start, but the Southern tacticians, as usual,
soon found means to counteract this. Wearing,
Quinlivan and forward O’Connor showed not-
ably for the winners, while veteran Jim
Craig worked hard to keep a beaten West-
ern side together in the second spell. At
Earl Park, Newtown Avon from St. George
by 8-7, or 2 tries and a goal to a try and
2 goals.
* * * #
“Gate” : The South Sydney Rugby League
team, which looks a moral for the N:S.W.
premiership, Avill probably close the season
Avith a hurried trip across the Tasman and
back. The Auckland League has issued the
invitation, and four matches are to be
played in the northern city. The Welshmen
are to leave on September 19, arriving back
on October 11, which means that the four
games must be crammed into a week.
“Bruce Hughes”: A heartless trick, which
even the rivalry always to be expected
betAveen different football codes does not
excuse, was played the other day by the
officials of the Canberra Rugby League on
a party of Australian Rules players from
Sydney. Finding the visitors at a loose end,
the practical jokers lulled them to a sense
of false security Avith food and drink, and
then dragged the unfortunate fellows to an
amateur theatrical performance by the Can-
berra Society of Art and Literature. It is
felt generally that even the political element
which infests this neighborhood Avould have
shrunk from such an action.
(.Continued on page J/l.)
Britain retained the Schneider Cup. The
winner, Flying-Officer Waghorn, who piloted
a Rolls-Royce supermarine, covered the
217.49 miles floAvn at, the rate of 328.63
m.p.h., his fastest lap being 331 m.p.h. This
is almost 47 m.p.h. faster than the British
figures for 1927. The Italian Dal Molin was
second with 284.2 m.p.h., but his two com-
patriots, Cadringher and Monti, struck bad
luck and could not finish, although they dis-
played great daring and skill. D’Arcy
Greig took third place for Britain AA'ith 282.31
m.p.h. Atcherley, Avho recorded 332.49
m.p.h. on one lap, was disqualified on a
technicality.
“Miller’s Sporting Annual,” that good
friend of Australians interested in sport of
all kinds, from racing to woodchop-
ping, has made its appearance for 1929, and
followers of racing form. Avitli the new sea-
son Just under Avay, Avill particularly wel-
come it. All the usual features are there,
and the addition of several photographs of
notable performers in various sports is an
attraction.
THE TIME OF TRANSITION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Down with the goalposts, brothers mine,
In with the stumps on the good green
sward,
For Rugger and Soccer have quit their shrine
And Cricket again is god and lord.
Soon cut and yorker shall scope afford
For names to glow in a nation’s annals.
Off stage, you oafs, a mud-splashed, horde!
Step in and welcome, you fools in flannels!
Mark out the creases and pitch the stumps,
Again let willoiv on leather thud.
Here’s your close season, football limps.
From fierce invective’s lurid flood
And frenzied barrackers’ howls for blood,
Likeivise from brandished pickets and panels.
Begone, you oafs who revel in mud!
And here’s a greeting, you fools in flannels!
Come, strident claqueurs and hoarse-voiced
blokes
Who through torrid hours on the hillside
sit,
Time to refurbish your ancient jokes
And fit fresh barbs on your shafts of wit—-
Though I wouldn’t regret, I must admit,
If your energies went in other channels.
Fall in! For the muddied oafs must flit
And you’ve bigger game in the fools in
flannels.
Let the student swat and the slacker loaf,
But it’s Liy for the season of Cricket’s
rule!
From the picture fadeth the muddied oaf
And into his own comes the flannelled fool.
N.s.w.
IFORD.


Generous Measure/
All yours for
Your Lucky 2/- will buy —
Latest type “Valet” Auto Strop Safety Razor
in a serviceable case.
2 genuine “Valet” Blades in Plated Blade
Sheath.
“Valet” Strop together with Tube of Auto
Strop Shaving Cream.
“VALET Rac&cw*
Auto/Slrop Graa!!^
British Made.
Of All Dealers.
Y- £
Ji
'As
V/ «
m
THIS
VAL
Sh
vln S
Blac
//
also
of
//A
m
Special Offer for a limited
period only
Managing Agents for Australia
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
&AAAAM
ES
PAl££
GRAHAM-PA] GR offers a variety
of body types, including' Roadsters,
Cabriolets, Coupes and Sport
Phsetons on five chassis, in sixes
and eights—at a wide range of
prices. All are equipped with
four speeds forward, except
Model 612.
New Advantages
1 —Smoother Operation at High Speeds
2 Rapid Acceleration—a New Silence and
Swiftness in Traffic and Up Steep Hills.
3 Easier and Less Frequent Gear Shifting.
4 Reduced Wear on Moving Parts—Longer
Life.
5 Easier Handling—Restful Relaxation After
Long Drives.
—With c Xz>wo Quiet High Speeds
With two quiet high speeds at their instant disposal, Graham-Paige owners possess advantages
in traffic on hills and the open highway that materially increase motoring ease and enjoyment.
You are cordially invited to drive a four-speed Graham-Paige and discover the real importance
of these advantages.
Am/
cumS
IModei 615 FivE'Passemger Sedan
Distributors for Australia and New Zealand:
NEW SOUTH WALES ..
VICTORIA
SOUTH AUSTRALIA ..
W. H. LOBER & CO., LTD.
... WALTER WHITBOURN PTY., LTD.
. . MAUGHAN THIEM MOTOR CO., LTD.
WEST AUSTRALIA .. ARTHUR BALES, LIMITED.
QUEENSLAND MOXON MOTORS, LTD.
TASMANIA TWIN-TOP MOTORS PTY., LTD.
NEW ZEALAND
Gsf\ AM AAA -A AI GsE:


đ
—Correct cutting
of the uppers is a
very important point
in the making of a
boot. Square-toe
model with good joint
fitting. Made in
black box calf and
tan willow calf.
d
Post
Free.
ď
đ
d
155 KING ST*° Macnaughh Qualify Shoes
ď
The Q “. o<lr nT«'
”e’ 6 See^
S=l=rtS£?^£S
eX cel le » # to operat ch
* ho
higH-P ress
rest. . So i e Manufacturers-
Patentees and Sol brQ< LTD.,
,Sf
procurable j Houses.
/ THE
Iren rut;
QUADRUPLE
v Price, 45/-
(With Gauge,
SJ• extra.)
If unablc to «
write to oui M
? C (?HN ARNOLD.
i§o Box 71. Mel
bourne, Australia
đ
CqEQT '."what are you qoihg to
PLK7, Sert ? "
&E-RT L^CROSS>£ M ,
G&rt *.‘ v ßut not /a lacrosse
stick.
e>£RT: f 'l BUT ITS What the
artist SAVE- ME- ?’
Footbrawl
■•jjitzcray" : A great figure in Australian
football answered the full-time bell last
week, when H. C. A. Harrison went out at
93 in Melbourne. In 1858 he, with W.
1 lammersley, J. B. Thompson and T. W. Wills,
formed the Melbourne F. 0., which played
the Rugby game as it then was. In those
days Rugby was very rough and unattrac-
tive from the spectatoi’’s point of view, so
the late enthusiast turned his attention to
devising a better and faster game. With the
old Harrow rules as a basis he devised
the Australian code, the first published rules
of which appeared in 1866. In 1887 he
formed the Football Association, which has
since been supplemented by the League.
* * * *
“Tiger” The willingness of Melbourne
football crowds was exemplified at a meet-
ing of the League the other night, when it
was resolved .to provide proper protection
for the umpire and players leaving the field
after the game. This followed on the recent
Melbourne-Footscray riot, when Melbourne
barrackers did their best to tear the
visitors to little pieces. It was mentioned
that the customary mounted-police escort
was quite powerless, and that the present
roped-off passage-way to the dressing-room
offered facilities for kicking the players
which were freely availed of. Finally, it
was resolved to enclose the passage in strong
wire-netting, as at most of the other grounds.
❖ * Hs H*
“Coburg”: Time brings its revenges, even
in football. For years past the Victorian
League has completely obscured the older
Association in public favor. During the
past two seasons there has been a swing-over,
and the Association games are drawing thou-
sands of the former League supporters from
their allegiance, with noticeable effects on the
League’s gates. The reason is said to be the
more attractive football played by the teams
under the Association, which has retained
some of the old rules abolished by the
League, notably that permitting the “flick”
pass. _ The League is so impressed that it
is seriously considering a return to the old
methods.
♦ • 4* * ❖
“Stand Off”: The Rugby Union season in
Australia, which has now ended, has been
the most successful since the war. On the
playing field, the defeat of Maoriland in the
three Tests has set up a new record, and
the return to the code by Queensland is
even of more value to the game, especially
as the Northern players have shown in their
first season that they will waste little time
in attaining the standard of the pre-war
years. The game may be considered as
firmly re-established in Queensland, and with
the acquisition of a couple of enclosed
grounds for the club matches should soon be
in a flourishing condition. In Melbourne
the outlook is not so assured, though there
is no difficulty in finding plenty of good
players. Enclosed grounds are the problem
here, also, and until these are available the
funds necessary for inter-State football will
always be hard to get. In Perth the game
has now been running for two years, and
there are over a dozen clubs of one grade
or another in the Union.
❖ # *
“Blue Bird”: The admission of a Police
team to the N.S.W. Rugby Union first-grade
this season was regarded by many with a
considerable amount of doubt. This has
been dissipated, for the John Hops developed
by the end of their first season into a more
than useful club side. Most of their strength
lay in the forwards, but in Morrison they
produced a centre of the sort that N.S.W.
has been looking for for some time, com-
bining, as he does, weight, speed and clever-
ness. An unfortunate injury in the first
match against Victoria probably cost him
an Australian cap, but there will be plenty
of chances next season.
“Amateur Pro.”: The defection of the
Christian Brothers’ School at Waverley
(N.S.W.) at the beginning of the season
was a severe blow to the N.S.W. Rugby
League, it being by far the most important
school reservoir at the professional body’s
disposal. Now comes an additional shock in
the announcement that another leading R.C.
school, St. Stanislaus at Bathurst, for long
a famous football recruiting ground, will go
over to the amateur game next season.
The Ins and Outs
“Shrewsbury”: The English county cham-
pionship ended last week, after a great
battle for the final placings, in the victory
of Notts. The famous old county of the
Shaws, Gunns, Arthur Shrewsbury, and
many another champion with bat and ball
is famous for two manufactures —lace and
professional cricketers. No cricket lover will
regret the victory, which is not out of turn,
since it is 22 years since the county last
headed the list. A couple of years ago the
spell seemed broken, with only weak Glamor-
gan to beat in the last match. A civic
reception and a procession were arranged
for the team when it came back. Glamorgan
upset the applecart with an unexpected win,
and Lancashire proved the pea.
* # * *
“Aigburth”: Veteran Frank Woolley’s sec-
ond blooming in this year’s English cricket
will delight everyone who can appreciate
perfect style combined with rare effective-
ness. He has topped a great season by scor-
ing his hundredth century. Only four other
English cricketers, W. G. Grace. Hayward,
Hobbs and Mead, have done this in first-
class cricket. Warren Bardsley, with 56,
holds the record for Australia.
* * * *
“Old Trafford”: One of those question-
able performances which stick in the cricket
lover’s throat marked the final match between
Sussex and Yorkshire. Yorkshire’s ninth-
wicket batsmen were in when the score was
196, with only ten minutes to go. To save an
outright defeat, the Yorkshire batsmen did
not run for scoring hits. To bring the score to
200, Maurice Tate bowled four wides. Then
with the new ball the master of the swerve
got the last two wickets, and the Tykes
were landed with a licking after all. They
dropped to third place, with their old foe
Lancashire ahead of them.
* ■ * * *
“Aigburth”: Australia will not see its
old cobber Arthur Gilligan, after all. The
old heart-trouble has recurred, and the Eng-
lish team for M.L. and Australia will be
skippered by his brother Harold, who also
plays for Sussex. The side looks a power-
ful one on paper, though Frank Woolley is
the only man familiar to Australian crowds.
Duleepsinhji will be the big attraction, and
another fine batsman is M. J. Turnbull,
last season’s Cambridge captain. Allom
and Nichols are two good fast-bowlers, while
in Cornford, the Sussex ’keeper, the side
has a fine Aunt Sally, even if he is hardly
tall enough to see over his pads.
“Old Q.”: Queensland, at first ignored by
the people who made out the English team’s
Australian itinerary, has been granted a game
to stop its vociferations. A four-day match
beginning on November 29 is the slice of
bread and jam handed to little sister, and it
is hoped that she will now be good.
* * * *
“S.”: Wallace Bruce, after 25 years’ ser-
vice on the controlling committee of S. A.
Cricket Association, has been appointed a
trustee of Adelaide Oval, in place of Harold
Fisher, deceased. Scrymgour, for many years
treasurer, and a prominent cricketer under
Lyons and the Giffens, succeeds Fisher as
president. Scrymgour, Hodgetts and Middle-
ton will represent S.A. at this year’s inter-
state conferences.
“W. G. Snort”: After mucli cogitation,
the N.S.W. cricket heads have turned down
the proposed alterations in the l.b.w. rule
and the suggestion that the wicket should
be made wider. They did, however, agree to
allow eight runs for all “over the fence”
hits, and have recommended that wickets be
made faster. The former rule is of little
use to anyone, and the inference that slow
batsmen can be induced to hit by giving
them two extra runs for a successful swipe
reflects no credit on the originators of the
idea. As to the faster wickets, that is a
matter of individual grounds and the men
in charge of them, to say nothing of weather
conditions, which always have the last
word. The changing of rules is not a mat-
ter for any one State, either.
$ $
“Tenth Slip”: The N.S.W. cricket season
opens formally on September 28, and by the
middle of next month all. the State competi-
tions should be in full swing. In view of the
visit of the English side a lot of interest is
already being taken in the development of
new talent, the paid coaches having already
started work in N.S.W. and Victoria, while
Queensland is waiting for the arrival of
Ducat from England. The most interesting
item in the unofficial games in Sydney is
the appearance of Jack Gregory. Clearly
his enforced rest has done him good, and
what bowling he has done shows a lot of
the old fire.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: This week will see
another of those gate-money tourneys be-
tween tennis amateurs and professionals
staged by the N.S.W. tennis serangs. Craw-
ford and Anderson are to meet in singles,
while Anderson will partner Dunlop against
Crawford and Hopman in doubles. It; is to bo
hoped the Ma State crowd has approached
the Federal body for permission to mix figu-
rative oil and water on this occasion. Last
time it ignored the obligation, with distress-
ing results.
* * * ■ #
“Bumpk”: South Yarra Tennis Club has
decided to engage a woman coach and
assistant sec. She is Miss Patricia Dawson,
an English professional.
* * * *
“Spadassin”: I am somewhat intrigued
by an account of a Sydney woman tennis
player who avoids the backhand bugbear
by changing her racquet from left to right
hand. The Italian Gaslini affects the same
trick, and has done well with it. It was
once rather fashionable among swordsmen,
and many a fine one-handed fencer has been
pinked by the unexpected change-over. At
the same time, few of its exponents have
died in their beds. The thing requires light-
ning rapidity and certainty, and once these
begin to fail the end comes. There is the
further disadvantage that one or two suc-
cesses make the exponent a marked man,
with the result that his adversary watches
for the move —and takes advantage of it.
* * * *
“Tripe”: Those tender little confidences
concerning prominent tennis players still go
on (B. 28/8/’29). One merchant in that
line of goods has been featuring Helen
Wills in London Daily Mail. Helen, it
appears, like the clowns who want to play
Hamlet and the Hamlets who see their voca-
tion in recognised clowning, desires to be
famous as a writer of verse and as an artist.
Said she of an exhibition of her drawings,
recently held: “At least the other tennis
players went to see them. That is a great
compliment. Tennis players are never inter-
ested in other tennis players.” As long as
Helen has tennis players for her art critics,
she is on a good wicket. Otherwise she will
find that artists and litterateurs are, in
respect to art and literature, just what
tennis players are in respect to tennis.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Miramar”: Sloan Morpeth, Maoriland
open champion and holder of the Victorian
amateur title, is so enamored of Aus-
tralia on his first visit to the country that
he is talking about settling down on this
side the Tasman. He is secretary of one
of the Auckland golf clubs, a job he has
found more congenial than the farming which
engaged him on his return from the war.
A very high-class player in any company, lie
would be an acquisition to Australian golf.
:Jc :*s * :|c
“Marino”: Some of the older exponents
of golf at the recent Australian champion-
ships in Adelaide were perturbed at the
long driving which has become the fashion
among the younger generation of players, not-
ably Rymill, of South Australia, and the
Australian amateur champion, Mick Ryan.
A long shot off the tee is a great asset, no
doubt, but it isn’t everything. It is good
betting that a moderate driver, with a fair
command of the game through the green and
deadly with the putter, would win far more
matches than he’d lose. There’s a lot of
satisfaction in a Marathon wallop off the
tee, but it is certainty in the shots on the
green with a length limited to a few feet
which wins matches.
* * * *
“Sandringham”: Fired by his recent
return to his best form, Ivo Wliitton, incon-
testably the best golfer Australia has yet
produced, intends to have another shot, at
the British open and amateur championships.
Australian representatives in the past have
been unfortunate, though most of them have
made a respectable showing. They have
never had any official status, however, the
somnolent Australian Golf Council invari-
ably- leaving the matter to individual initia-
tive. Surely something can be done in the
way of sending up an officially hall-marked
team, as is the case with the Americans.
x x * *
“Divot Digger”: The world of golf was
rocked to its brogue heels last week by the
news that Bobby Jones had been knocked
out of the American national championship
in the first round. The felon blow was
struck by a young unknown named Goodman
from Omaha, who finished one up at the
18th. It was a clean-cut win too, for after
getting the ad*mtage at the 14th the young-
ster bettered Jones’s most strenuous efforts
to get his nose ahead in the next four holes.
Jones has won this championship four times
in six tries.
* X X X
“Cash Amateur”: Betting on golf in
America is reaching the sky limit, and
this year’s national championship witnessed
a record in this respect. Bobby Jones
started favorite, and carried a thumping wad
of dollars at 2 to 1 on, while sweeps
were as plentiful as hip flasks at a prohibi-
tion rally. The Jones ticket in the big Cal-
cutta on the event was bought by a syndi-
cate of admirers for £4600 and presented
to the redoubtable Bobby, a procedure that
comes perilously near to making the Georgian
lawyer a professional.
x x x x
“Koax”: The Australian golf champion-
ships in Adelaide were responsible for at
least one minor tragedy. One player on
coming up to his ball found a large frog
perched on top of it. Uncertain as to the
nature of the hazard, if any, he endeavored
to entice the creature from its perch by
chirruping to it and employing other means
of blandishment. The frog, however, re-
mained unmoved. Stirred by the impre-
cations of those behind him, the player took
a swipe at his pill with the iron, and pro-
ceeded with the business without even paus-
ing to give the frog Christian burial.
(Continued on next page.)


RIN-TIN-TIN
1
i m
-
(the
famous
Screen
Actor
is fed
exclusively
on
Ken-T tPation
THE DOG FOOD SUPREME
FREE —Sample Tin sent to any address
in the Commonwealth.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from
W. C. SCHWAB, P. 0. Box 1821, Melbourne
BRAKE " SERVICE
EQUIPMENT
MEANS—Better Service—lmproved Income .
COMPLETE EQUIPMENT INCLUDES:—
BRAKE-TESTING MACHINE.
BRAKE DRUM LATHE—for cars and trucks.
SUPER WHEEL PULLER—with adapters.
COMBINATION DRILLING AND COUNTERSINKING MACHINE
AND RIVETER.
For full particulars apply to Factory Rep.—JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. BOX 71, MELBOURNE.
GOLF SETS
Imported from the Heather Co., Scotland.
EVERY STICK GUARANTEED.
vA
n
Special Matched
Sets,
Comprising—
BRASSIE,
. MID-IRON,
MASHIE
PUTTER,
TAN BAG,
2 BALLS.
COMPLETE SET,
57/6
STAINLESS SET,
69/6
We pay carriage.
N.S.W. Sports Store, Ltd.,
26 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
ALAN
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”: For some time past Queensland
motor-car and -cycle clubs have been using
the fine ocean beaches of Southern Queens-
land for_ speed tests, the long run from
Southport to Tweed Heads being a particu-
lar favorite. Occasionally the races prove
a nuisance to bathers, and the local council
was asked to assume control of the beach.
This is under the guardianship of the Marine
Department, and the M.D. has refused to
hand over to the local authority unless
it contracts to forbid all motor-cycle and
-car racing along the ocean foreshore. The
petrol fraternity is up in arms at the
closing of the beach, but it looks as if it
will just have to bite on the bullet.
* * * *
“O.II.V.”: In the “over 1000 c.c.” class
the world’s motor-cycling speed records move
slowly. Way back in the early part of 1924
11. Le Vack covered a flying kilometre at
the rate of 122.24 m.p.h. on an 876-c.c.
Brough Superior, and the other day he recap-
tured the same record on a 995-c.c. mount
of the same make at a speed of 126.3 S m.p.h.
Brough machines, by the way, have yet to
make their appearance in Australia. They
are the most expensive two-wheelers in the
world; and the type Le Vack used in his
latest record-breaking effort is listed iu
England at £2OO. Each machine carries a
guarantee that it has done 100 m.p.h. The
engine is a V-twin J.A.P. made by the Eng-
lish firm of J. A. Parsons and Co., whose
wares at various times have held all the
motor-cycling records that are worth talking
about.
* =i: # *
“Chug”: On the dried-up Perkolili (W.A.)
lake bed last week the Westralian Ron Duke,
riding a 1204-c.c. Harley Davidson, solo,
under official observation, averaged 96
m.p.h. for 20 miles, and covered two miles
at 103 J m.p.h. With side-car he dashed over
20 miles at an average of 76 m.p.h., doing-
two miles at 77 m.p.h.
* # * *
“Fitzcray”: A gruelling Victorian motor-
cycle reliability trial was the 300-mile con-
tinuous run from Ballarat round a long
circuit back to the once-golden city again.
The riders were out all night in a bitter
wind and driving rain, with correspondingly
unpleasant road conditions, but most of the
field struggled through, including women
riders in side-cars competing for a special
cup. The A section winner turned up in
E. J. Jones, of Ballarat, riding a Harley-
Davidson, while the B division went to J.
Stewart, of South Yarra.
“Kick Starter”: J. Bowers and Frank
Smith, who left Sydney on July 4 bent on
riding round Australia via Queensland and
the N.T., are due in the Harbor City shortly.
When the pair cast up at Perth, they had
completed 6000 miles in 57 days, which is
a record to date for a side-car outfit. The
tour does not seem to have had any purple
spots, but this is not surprising. The route
has been traversed so often now, and has
been so dotted with petrol and spare-part
depots, that the average traveller is annoyed
not to encounter a bowser over every next hill.
❖ # * #
“Hotham”: The Coburg (Vic.) club
staged a 100-mile road-race for cycles last
week from Coburg along the Sydney-road
to Tallarook and back. The race was divided
into separate classes for amateurs and pro-
fessional riders, H. Cruise winning the pro-
fessional event in shr. 22min. 42sec. In
the amateur section, W. McLaughlin rode
a great race to win in shr. 9min. 28sec.
Miscellaneous
“Third Base”: The Multnomahs, the base-
ballers from the U.S. Pacific Coast who
recently descended almost unheralded on
N.S.W., departed for home last week
with a clean sheet. They proved themselves
a most capable lot, particularly in hitting
and fielding, and in these respects far out-
shone the Stanford University side here last
year. All their matches, including the three
“Tests” with N.S.W., were won with the
greatest ease. It is to be hoped that the
locals will show more improvement as the
result of their visit than was the case after
the Stanford lads departed.
* * * *
“C. Bumpkin”: Pedestrians need not be
disturbed at the latest speed record. It was
made by Bennett and Bohm, two Melbur-
nians, in an outboard motor-boat on the
Murray; they travelled from Albury to the
mouth in three weeks. The distance, 1609
miles, is claimed as a record for a vessel
of this description. Phillips, the previous
record-holder, took six weeks longer.
* * * *
“Spike” : By far the most engrossing ath-
letic events of the year in N.S.W. are the
G.P.S. sports, to be held this year on Octo-
ber 12 at Sydney Cricket Ground. The
meeting has produced many State and Aus-
tralian champions, including “Slip” Carr
and Jim Carlton. A lad who promises to
follow in their footsteps is F. W. O’Brien,
of Sydney Grammar, who broke Carr’s 12-
year-old record for the 440 at the Grammar
sports the other day, with the good time
of 51 9-10 see. He won six championship
events, and was second in another on the
same day, on the slow grass-track at Rush-
cutter Bay. Last year O’Brien was Combined
High Schools champion, and holds the State
pentathlon title. If lie is not run to death
in too many events, he should have a great
track future.
“Amateur Pro.”: The Australian Olympic
Federation, which made an egregious mess
of matters in connection with the dispatch
of the last team to Amsterdam, continues
to complain that it wasn’t its fault. The
manager, Les Duff, on whom it is inclined
to lay the blame, has pointed out that he
had, single-handed, to look after a mixed
team of 19 without coach, masseur or bag-
gage man, disburse all moneys for all sorts
of purposes, make all arrangements for
travel, accommodation, etc., attend to cor-
respondence and accounts, and perform other
duties. This was a task obviously beyond one
man. Whatever decision the Council
comes to at its meeting in Sydney next
week, the public will debit it with its past
performances, including the delay incurred
and ineptitude displayed in the selection and
dispatch of the team from Australia.
* * *
“Whirroo”: Hurling, a red-blooded sport,
has a considerable following in N.S.W. and
Victoria, though it gets little advertisement.
In the annual inter-State tourney between
N.S.W. and Victoria, held at Melbourne, the
home side emerged from the carnage victorious
by two matches to one. The first match, played
at Ballarat, was won by Victoria, but
N.S.W. evened matters in the second. The
deciding affray was therefore decidedly .will-
ing, but there were no casualties —cer-
tainly none worth mentioning in hurling
circles.
* * s': *
“Bumpk”: A plucky Australian, Mrs.
Miller, won the women’s speed race at the
municipal airport at Cleveland (U.S.A.).
Her first machine was wrecked, but she got
another, and finished second, doing slightly
under 115 miles per hour, the prize going
to her owing to the competitor ahead being-
disqualified. Mrs. Miller is the nuggetty
little Victorian who sold vacuum-cleaners in
order to pay for a trip to England, where
she got in touch with Captain Lancaster
and returned in his ’plane-—the first woman
to fly from the Hub to this country. :
'l* Jj!
“Long Dog”: A section of Sydney’s popu-
lation is still bent on going to the demnition
bow-bows, even if High Courts do decide that
chasing live hares round a track cannot be
made a vehicle for punting. The new scheme
to be adopted at the two Sydney dog tracks
is a pale imitation of genuine coursing, on
which betting is legal. In future the dogs
LES DUFF, manager of the Australian
Olympic team, who is having a fierce
controversy with the Olympic Federa-
tion.
will be run in pairs out of hand-slips, as in
the real game, and the verdict will be awarded
on points gained, again after the coursing
fashion. The stumbling-block will be the
making of the narrow tracks roomy enough
for the dogs to turn the nare; if this is
not done there should be a good case for the
S.P.C.A. Further, coursing proper is limited
to a fixed season. For the new departure it
will have to be made perennial, and here
Authority may step in.
* * *
“Lying Two”: The stealthy manner in
which such practices as bowling creep upon
an unsuspecting community until it is too
late to cast off the toils is seen in the
annual report of the South Australian Bowl-
ing Association. Only 30 short years ago
the first game was played in the Wheat
State. To-day there are 67 clubs in a com-
munity of 577,756 souls. Nothing quite so
insidious has been seen in Australia outside
the advance of pi’ickly-pear in Queensland.
No wonder the proposal to reduce the num-
ber of liquor licenses at the last local-option
poll was overwhelmingly defeated.
* * * *
“Swan”: The Westralian bowling autho-
rities are broadcasting particulars of their
Centennial tourney in Perth, commencing
October 3L and remind all t’othersiders
that nominations close on September 21
with the secretaries of the various State
associations. Trophies are handsome, and
special arrangements have been made with
the rail authorities for reduced transport
rates, and for' accommodation in Perth,
while every other item necessary to the com-
fort and enjoyment of visiting bowlers has
been envisioned and bounteously provided for.
H. DILLON, manager-player with the
American baseball team recently in
N.S.W.
“Stretcher”: N.S.W. rowing enthusiasts
were, disappointed at the last-moment
decision of the N.Z.R.A. not to send an
eight across in March next, as had been
arranged. N.S.W. had agreed to put off the
State championships to that month to
oblige the All Blacks, and the Mosman crew
to postpone its disbandment. However, as
finance is the chief reason for the cancel-
lation of the visit, N.S.W. has cabled offer-
ing to pay a whack of the travelling ex-
penses, and to quarter the visitors while iu
Sydney—a truly sporting offer.
* s': * *
“Blade”: The intention of N.S.W. ama-
teur sculler H. E. Ricketts to compete in
the Diamond Sculls, at Henley, next year
has been received with lofty superiority by
Sydney press experts. These point out
that the rule of the National Amateur Row-
ing Association, passed in 1882, which debars
“artisans or manual workers” from compet-
ing as amateurs at Henley, must necessarily
squelch Ricketts’s ambitions, he coming
within the definition of “artisan.” Ricketts
probably knew more than his critics. The
rule, a monument to British snobbery, has
been wiped out. From January next —
which will give ample time for all who
wish to enter —anyone who has not rowed
for money, acted as a paid coach, know-
ingly competed against a professional, been
employed iu connection with boats of any
kind, or popped any of the trophies won by
him, may row at Henley as an amateur, in
sculling or other events'. Once more, can’t
Australia do something about sending Pearce
across?
$ $ $ $
“Riotous Behavior”: The most titanic
struggle in chess annals has resulted in Niem-
zowitsch downing Capablaiica and Spiel-
mann, who tied by half a point—ls points
to 14|. The tournament was rushed through
in one month. Which recalls our local
championship at the School of Arts. Gaffers
Bliss and Bilks were the players; one move
an hour was the li,mit. We adolescents,
just losing our teeth, drifted in during the
passing weeks, and were always sure of
finding them at it. We hated to disturb
them, but at last the undertakers said it was
necessary, seeing that the pair had been dead
for weeks.
* * * *
“Schndrrer”: There is to be a Jewish
Olympiad in Palestine in 1932. The prelimi-
naries are being arranged by a controlling
body representing Jewish sporting organi-
sations in all the countries of Europe and in
Palestine itself. The affair will be known
as a “Maccabcad,” and Australian Jewry
may send some representatives.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Tops”: Last year was a record for the
export of prime Australian wool sheep to
competing countries, actual and potential.
Russia bought 2031 for £15,965; South
Africa, 799 for £17,645; Japan, 340 for
£3388; France (for Algeria), 208 for £2179.
When is the suicidal business going to be
stopped ?
* * * • *
“Trebor”: A temperance hotel has been
opened in Brisbane by the Prohibition
League. During Exhibition Week the regu-
lar hotels were crowded, and the no-license
joint got part of the overflow. Among its
guests were six Queensland publicans and
a southern brewer.
* * * *
“Adelaide”; Adelaide is proud of its new
parking station—three floors and a flat roof,
to any of which cars can be driven by an
easy grade, with a lift to ease congestion.
Open day and night, it has no doors. The
tiling is of steel and concrete throughout; it
cost £60,000.
* * :|t *
“Wealsman” : The cheapest motor-’bus trip
in the Commonwealth is the one from Hobart
(Tas.) to Kingston Beach and back, 22
miles, for a shilling. Up to about six
months ago the fare was 2s. single, 3s. 6d.
return, but competition arose, and the con-
flicting interests have not been reconciled.
It is a comfortable ’bus, and there is no
more beautiful drive in the world.
* * * *
“Bill See”: Second-class sleepers, _such as
the Vic. and N.S.W. Railway Commissioners
refuse to sanction, have been in vogue in
W.A. for over 14 years. Collier, the present
Premier, introduced them when he was
Minister for Railways in a previous Labor
Government. The heads said it couldn’t be
done, but it was. For about 3s. 6d. extra
one gets a proper let-down bunk with pillow
and blankets complete, a real boon to poor
mothers who have to travel long distances
with children.
:j: * *
“Gudans”: No need for “Chev.” (B.
21/S/’29) to go to England for an example
of ultra-violet lamps being used to test
articles which in due course will have to
be exposed to more or less fierce sunlight.
In Bergers’ works at Rhodes (N.S.W.) the
same apparatus lias been employed for some
time to determine the resistance of their
products to the weather.
# * *
“Sig” : Gladstone (Q.) is exploiting the
inexhaustible wealth to be found in our sub-
tropical waters. A local co. sends ice-packed
fish long distances over the State railways.
It lias half a dozen big boats engaged in
deep-sea fishing; they return laden with-fish
whose very names are appetising—giant
mackerel, red emperor, coral trout, coral cod,
mowong, golden trevally and barramundi.
The co. also deals in crabs, oysters and
frozen turtles.
* * ' * *
“Hawthorn”: Something very like, if not
actually, soapstone (B. 4/9/’29) was used
a few years ago for the erection of a corner
block of shops in suburban Melbourne and
attracted a good deal of attention at the
time. It is naturally dead-wdiite in hue,
came in chunks the size of a small room, and
was sawn up into building blocks, lintels,
window-sills and the like with an ordinary
hand- and crosscut-saw. It could also be
“worked” wit'll normal cutting tools. De-
spite visible advantages, however, the use of
the material did not spread.
* * * *
“Natalite”: Touching the market for
Queensland timbers (B. 21/8/’29), walnut
was neglected until the American buyers
came along. Thousands of giant walnut-trees
were left standing close to railway lines
and roads while loggers plunged further into
the forest in search of napee, silky oak and
cedar. That is all changed now; 17 million
super feet of walnut recently left Cairns for
the U.S.A. in one vessel. One reason why
the timber was not favored in Australia was
that it was rough on saws; the Yanks get
over the difficulty by cutting it with electric
wires. They use it mainly for radio
cabinets.
* * * *
“Ex-Loco”: It is hard for Vic. railway-
men to credit that unserviceable sleepers
from the Broken Hill-Sydney line are heaped
up and burnt (B. 28/8/’29). Things are
managed very differently under the Uapp
regime. Condemned sleepers are sorted oyer
and the best are stacked and utilised for
railway fence posts. The next best are sold
to wheat-buyers to stack the grain on at
stations, being sometimes trucked 100 miles
or more for this purpose. The balance
are sold for firewood. In districts where
timber is scare they bring good prices—ls.
or Is. 6d. each. And every sleeper has t<>
be accounted for by the gangers, even if it
involves gathering the remains in a bag.


‘HEENZO is easily
the best remedy I have
ever used for banishing
chest and throat ailments,
Writes Mr. RAYMOND ELLIS, the
eminent English Operatic Baritone.
'1
OF IMPORTANCE TO
PARENTS
is the fact that HEENZO
does NOT contain any
poisons or digestive-upsetting
drugs —that s why HEENZO is the best
of all family remedies for
COUGHS, COLDS,
CROUP, BRONCHITIS,
INFLUENZA.
d
Every leading Chemist and Store in Australia sells HEENZO


‘The GCi'XACD LINE of BEAUTY
The Petite
Receive
rvvfii
ďd
The unusually small figure re-
ceives special attention in the new
Gossards we are showing*
We particularly invite the woman
of small figure to ask to see this
new combination by Gossard*
Fancy striped batiste forms the
garment, while satin tricot gives
uplift lines to the bust. Three
inches longer in the back than in
the front, it gives the smooth hip-
line with greatest ease.
The Canadian H. W. Gossard Co., Ltd.
114' 120 Castlereagh Street
SYDNEY. N. S. W.
GOSSARDS ARE MADE WITHIN THE EMPIRE
On time
.-all the time
Punctuality—the 6fte
essential of social or
business life-—is as-
sured to every wearer
ofa“CYMA” Watch.
To people who mat-
ter in the world of
affairs, the words
“CYMA” and
Pu nctuality ace
synonymoug*
m m
■£
:■
i r
* ass ►
S 3
no
A
Charming
Gift
( Jown3lali,
Melbourne, Vic
S*£
&
LvCQ***
»*±jsaK
i A- «?_
v-fesar
? if ' £?;
fS $ ,
K- f.
i X,<t
N#
Exclusive
For a lasting gift, or as a piece of exquisite
personal jewellery, a “CYMA” Watch is
always in perfect taste on all occasions. Plus
this —there is the assurance of speedy and
economical repair in case of accident as all
"CYMA’' parts are interchangeable and
carried by all good jewellers.
tJVorld Qamous
CYMA
WATCH E S
For Any Advertising Campaign in
Queensland Let Your First Choice Be
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE-
and its companion journal, “The Sunday Mail,”
Queensland’s big weekly newspaper and magazine.
‘‘The Daily Mail” is the big morning paper with a
greater nett circulation than any other daily in the
State.
“The Sunday Mail” covers in one day the entire
metropolitan circulation of Brisbane’s four dailies.
For advertising rates and other particulars, please apply to
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
£BB-294 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE, Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.


52 Maeleay St.
Limited
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT, SYDNEY
(Located within the City Boundary, ten
minutes jrom G.P.O.')
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 160 rooms, is now open, and
features Single Rooms, Double
Rooms with Bath, and two-, three-
and four-room Suites with Bath.
Central Heating, Hot and Cold
Water, ’Phone and Bedside Lamip
in each room. Unsurpassed
Harbor views.
Telephone: F 2161 (8 lines).
Telegraphic Address: ’‘Fifmac,* ,
Sydney.
ď
đd
Solid
Silver
Condiment
with blue glass
linings, complete in
handsome case,
£4/4/-
Fashioned in English,
Hall-marked Silver,
and representing
exceptionally good
value. A charming
gift for any occasion.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS, LTD.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
Royal-
ď
ToH.NL
George V ,
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE <
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Li mited
SYDNEY.
CMAMPAGtf*
OiarlesHeiflsieCN
REIMS
"' V ** 'S-ji-fy '****
i§!«IWM I *3
PELLISSOiM
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Asrerts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayser
SHEER
CHIFFON
SILK
STOCKING
In black robes, in black and blue and black
and white robes, and in robes red as those
of the necromancers of old the medicine-
men swept into the Town Hall for the open-
ing of the Medical Congress by Lord Stone-
haven. Soon the platform was heady with
political, ecclesiastical and administrative
potentates and mere men of science.
Dame Janet Campbell put an extra bead on
the brew by sitting aloft in a black frock,
all handkerchief-points lined with jade to
match her dangling necklet.
But the fascination of the evening lay in
Dr. Abbott’s presidential address. In it he
told the story of medicine in the 42 years
since he performed his first operation at
Prince Alfred under surgeon Alexander Mac-
Cormick. In this address science and time
were spanned with a humor so quiet and
sly that the audience generally woke to the
point a second or so after the tired, ironic
voice had drawled it out.
Medical Congress visitors can make no
complaint against Sydney weather on the
ground of monotony. To begin with, they
were treated to a spring day that soared
to the eighties, next they had a day cloaked
in red dust so that every breath they inhaled
was a fragment of Broken Hill or Bourke,
while for the vice-regal garden-party a west-
erly blew icily. But after that there were
mornings and afternoons of soft blue velvet.
These monster garden parties at Govern-
ment House are dreary affairs unless sun
and wind are kind. To begin with, they
start inauspiciously enough at the side gate
into the garden. There’s no walking through
the reception-rooms and bobbing to the host
and hostess on the terrace, while friends
criticise and strangers probably admire the
new frock and hat you’ve acquired and the
movie man clicks his machine and you .are
heartened with the hope you’ll be in the
picture. Nothing of that kind happens
when the gates are opened to about 1500.
By car and taxi last week’s guests arrived,
some taxis weighed down to Plimsoll. Once
inside the gates the lawns and views were
yours, and a vision of a packed and almost
imperceptibly moving mass of humans push-
ing slowly but determinedly along to the
lower lawn, where a tea-tent, looking drunk
m the wind, in company with hundreds of
uncertain little tables, seemed to promise
refreshment. Most of the women wore furs
from knee to chin ; but some unfortunates
had decided on organdy, chiffons and printed
crepe de Chines. Probably visitors so dressed
were mostly from the south of Maoriland,
and no doubt to them the day seemed
charged with the fires of spring. Lady de
Chair flashed mossy green in her transient
appearances on the lawns, and Elaine’s
sapphire-blue satins frothed to a fichu of lace,
which material lined her black velvet hat.
{several well-known girls were obviously ac-
quiring a knowledge of how to ask for a
Jj rench cruiser when next shopping in Paris ;
',.y, Save their French naval escorts un-
divided attention. Captain Abrial, of the
iourville, was heavy with decorations.
Archbishop Kelly, a late-comer, was
escorted by official-secretary Harry Budge to
the tea-tent, where notables like Sir Ewen
Maclean, president of the Congress, Dr.
George Abbott and his lady, the French
Consul-General Nettement couple, and local
celebrities like the J. Macarthur On slows
were taking nourishment. Mrs. Harry Budge
and Mrs. Anderson stuck to the buffet on the
tei Ki ac< i‘ rs - ® ep Levy wore a hat like
a black lacquer casque, and was otherwise
a lur coat so expensive that this Letter
doesn t pretend to know its breed. The same
remark applies to the blond animal across
the shoulders of Mrs. Norman Lowe, the
oest-dressed woman on the horizon,
u^"r. ga^en * s . one th e few things to
' v ’ llc “ th e moving finger of time acts as a
beautincr. Instance the grounds of Yaralla,
Miss LadiHi Walker’s Concord home. These,
mellow with years and decked by spring—•
were the scene of one of the happiest open-
air parties of the week. To begin with, the
weather was kind. Brilliant sunshine flooded
the lawns and drew with persuasive sym-
pathy the scents from every nodding and
blooming flower-bell and -cup, and the Parra-
matta River, philosophy in silver, added
its charm. The conservatories proved a
lure, and so did the afternoon tea. Miss
M alker is a fine hostess, and had remem-
bered that not by tea alone doth man live.
The siphonic orchestra, under the direction
of nephew E. P, Walker, was much enjoyed
by the male members of the party, while
lovely woman sank her teeth in luscious
strawberries and cream. Nor were the doors
of Yaralla closed to the visitor. Tea was
served in a dining-room rather like a small
poppy-show itself. The mistress of all these
charms wore one of the new blues that hold
the glint of sapphire in hat and frock, and
Mr. and Mrs. George Walker helped to steer
the afternoon to success, Ml’s. Walker’s prim-
rose hat very brave in the sunlight. Sir
Ewen Maclean was a notable, and Mrs.
George Abbott, and Dr. Richard Stawell’s
lady from Melbourne with daughters Nancy
and Elizabeth, the medical Clubbe couple
and Miss Macarthur Onslow. The wife
of Dr. Joseph Coen was an attractive matron
in two tones of pink as delicate as her own
coloring; another was the wife of Marshall
Macdonald, of Dunedin (M.L.), in blue
georgettes. Mollie Wilson, from Melbourne,
proved again how eye-arresting all-black can
be.
The Imperial Service Club, all scarlet
and blue —blue of the Navy and blue of
the Air —invaded the Wentworth with its
splendor. The State Ex. tripped in about
10.30 and cast in his lot with president
Colonel Norrie and Mrs. Norrie. Black
chiffons heavy with gold traceries enfolded
the hostess, and her party was enriched
by Brigadier and Miss Goddard, the Briga-
dier Heritages and the Colonel Rabetts.
Neville Scott (Suva) swished and glided
about in billows of tulle like some graceful
golden fish in tropic waters. . May Collear,
at whose wedding Neville will be maid of
honor, wore white satins which shimmered
into a long side-drape. Mrs. Edwin Olding,
in green lace and chiffons, caught the eye;
and Mrs. Sydney Herring sported her
General and her powder-blue satin, which
was the last word in its uneven skirt-drape.
Surgeon John McKelvey’s wife, just back-
less from Europe, was very beautifully
dressed at the Congress reception at David
Jones’s. She wore a frock of black satin,
the cutaway running from the right shoulder-
blade to well under the left. It was bordered
in diamente. The skirt, almost knee-high in
front, flowed off to floor-level behind, ending
in three narrow panels.
Too much music and too little time for
conversation and moving about made this
reception rather ceremonious. Not till it was
time to exchange checks for cloaks and
hats did the affair sparkle up. Fetunia
chiffon enwrapped Mrs. George Abbott. Mrs.
Brown Craig’s pink georgettes shimmered
with silver sequins. Garnet Halloran’s
lady and her friends—-a group of doctors
wives—were all grass-widows, their husbands
having a corroboree that evening. Dr. Con-
stance D’Arcy was serenity in black laees,
while Dr. Lucy Gullett wore the soft fabric
in vellum tones.
Mrs. G. H. Abbott, the wife of the presi-
dent of the Australasian Medical. Congress,
is pictured
for The Bul-
letin by Falk.
Her husband
performed his
first operation
42 years ago,
and was one
of the first
students to
obtain the
whole of his
training at the
Sydney Medi-
cal School.
Mrs. Abbott
was Sydney’s
most import-
ant hostess
last week.
Normally she
is content to
be the good
doctor’s wife —
proclaimed by
Dr. Abbott in his presidential address to be
precious beyond rubies.
The unveiling of Professor Johnny Hun-
ter’s portrait was the supreme moment of
Friday’s reception at the University. The
Great Hall, its chill warmed by the spring-
afternoon, its sombre, almost religious dim-
ness pierced by golden shafts of light, for
at least one moment of glory was swept by
a wave of pride in human achievement —a
pride not limited by State boundaries, but
as big as Australia itself. When Chancellor
William Cullen drew aside Australia’s flag
from before that dark, intense gaze, that
wide, laughing mouth, and when Johnny
Hunter’s small son pointed a swift recog-
nising finger to the picture of the father
he had never seen, the multitude within the
hoary stone walls felt it was taking part in
a solemn requiem.
Little John Hunter is four years of age,
and in his white suit he sat on the dais, a
high light against the black and gold robes
of the Chancellor and the Deputy-Chancel-
lor—youth and its possibilities beside age
and attainment. What small John’s attain-
ments may be can be estimated when we
remember that his brilliant father died at
26, being then Professor of Anatomy. His
wife and his mother, two proud and sad
women, were among those on the dais.
This University party proved the kindest
to the persistent wearer of spring frocks,
and fabrics on which flower heads tossed
and laughed, and into whose mesh sunset
ana twilight and dawn had been captured
in their most glowing or tenderest hues,
nodded and bowed to one another amid the
ices and tea served in the Refectory, and
later amid the glassy floors and cedar
ceilings of the Fisher Library. Professor
MacCallum’s lady and the wife of Vice-
Chancellor Wallace were the afternoon’s
hostesses.
Herewith Bernice Agar pictures Mrs. Ern-
est Watt, who, until midway through last
week, was Ruth Massey. The wedding began
quietly in the
R e g i s t rar’s
office, went on
to a small
lunch at the
Wentw o r t h,
and finished
up at Ro-
mano’s in
the evening.
Here at ten
o’clock about
50 friends
danced and
made felici-
tous speeches
to the popular
’groom and his
bride, who
looked smart
from her Eton
crop down.
Sydney Ure
Smith was
one of the
night’s speechmakers. Dr. Nigel Smith,
Jimmy Burns, Gruner, Hugh McCrae
and John Dailey and his wife were
of the guests. Ruth is a daughter of
organist Tom Massey, of Newcastle, and
was well known as a clever commercial
artist. This is her first essay into matri-.
mony, and her husband’s fourth.
The dance of the Old Sydneians was
another of the gaieties packed into the week.
Spring flowers and the greetings of old
friends filled the ballroom, of the Wentworth
with a tremendous feeling of goodwill _to
man—and his partner. President of the union
Sam Hordern being away in England, the
Norman Cowpefs, aided by R. S. and Miss
Murray Prior, presided over the official
table.
Decorations on almost every coat and a
look of using their heads more than their
toes distinguished the men at the ball which
was the final social fireworks of. the Con-
gress. It was easily the happiest affair
of the week. Man, that talkative animal,
dashed and slithered about before and be-
tween the dances, words, words, words on his
lips. He greeted old and made new friends,
and his womenfolk stood by, silent for the
most part, not by desire but for lack of oppor-
tunity. The Town Hall was dressed to
resemble an old English garden, but there
is so much of our civic fastness that with
all the hollyhock and roses of England
twined about her she would still emerge a
Town Hall. Little black-and-white awn-
ings under the balconies seemed but to
emphasise her nakedness. The vestibule, with
its Venetian screens breaking distances
with their geranium-red streamers, and, above
all, the dazzling crystal candelabra, was a
merry sight, and the black and gold banners
on the walls of the supper-room were another
happy idea.
Every woman at this party was dressed as
though her husband was a fashionable diag-
nostician or surgeon. Not one frock of
G.P. standard made its appearance on the
thousand or so females about the landscape.
Dr. George Abbott and his lady received
the guests, she notably frocked in black and
yellow. Dr. Stawell’s lady wore black
laces; Peggy Bullmore was in Parma violet;
Mrs. Herbert Kendall’s golden broca’des
were bordered with fur and served with
pearls of great size. One of the pretty
creatures in the room was Mrs. Bouverie
Anderson-Stuart, Greuze-like in blue taffetas.
Pale gold laces swung gracefully about Dr.
Marie Hamilton. Dunedin’s knight Louis
Barnett added weight to the flutter; Sir
Ewen Maclean and Dr. Dan Kelly were im-
pressive if not so light on the feet as sur-
geon John McKelvey, whose wife’s ankle-
length black taffetas bloomed with pink
roses. Silver-sprayed blue georgettes gathered
about Mrs. Eric Gutliridge from Melbourne.
Dr. Jean Macnamara and Dr. Jean Greig,
from the same city, were in black.
The Victoria League’s water picnic to
the visiting pillars and their womenfolk was
one of the popular parties of the week.
Over 300 boarded the ferry at Fort Mac-
quarie and dodged into every little bay
about the harbor-front for over two hours.
Miss Macarthur Onslow and Mark Sheldon’s
lady acted as hostesses, and the morning
tea on board was enough for the multitude,
with fragments over to feed as many fishes.
Bridge parties were given by Mrs. C. <!■
Berge and Mrs. Nigel Smith, and one run
by Dr. Lucy Gullett, Mrs. Guy Griffiths
and Mrs. Clarence Read was housed in the
Queen’s Club. Dr. and Mrs. Blackburn and
daughter Vera gave a dance, principally for
the young things who are in Sydney with
medical fathers; and Mrs. H. R. Poate, of
Bellevue Hill, and a group which included
the wives of Drs. Nigel Smith, Brown Craig,
Wilfred Fairfax, Kendall, Worrall and Sin-
clair Gillies were other purveyors of joy.
But, truth to tell, most of the congress
parties were either over-prepared for or
poorly attended. At one garden party, where
over 200 were expected, less than 90 turned
up, and the evening reception at David
Jones’s was notoriously short of men. Too
many fixtures, an overflow of hospitality
and the usual embarrassment of riches, the
visitors say apologetically.
Professor Radcliffe Brown, making up in
pose and tailoring what he lacks in dia-
phragm, looks coyly out from a canvas in
the Society of Artists’ Show in the Educa-
tion Department’s Gallery. Sir Dudley de
Chair opened the show last Saturday. The
gallery was like an oven. Men mopped their
brow —even George Lambert was caught in
the act—and woman sought her powder-putt.
George Lambert’s “Tirranna” and Heysen’s
“Hill of the Creeping Shadow” drew the
attention of the multitude; but there was a
Gray’s Elegyish charm about Gruner’s
Windsor landscape that fixed itself in the
fancy of John Lane Mullins, who went
through the afternoon gathering in friends
till his tea party rivalled that of president
Ure Smith. Daughter Barbara played host-
ess with cousin Gilbert Hughes as right-
hand man.
Spring blew into the show in hat and
frock, and George Bell’s canvas surely
inspired two arty young things whose black
and yellow outfits suggested a Carmen
chorus. Sculptor Theo Cowan, in peacock-
green, walked about with the author of
Maoriland-banned “Butcher Shop.” Albert
Collins, Charlie Bryant and D. H. Souter
were among the afternoon laughmakers;
Syd Smith, in grey tweeds, looked more
like a Somerset squine than ever; and
among the interested was Maoriland portrait-
painter O’Keeffe’s daughter Mrs. William
Anderson, from Christchurch.
Like a breath of the open spaces blew
the scent of the wattle through the Palais
Royal when Australia and her maidens, in
wattle-gold frocks, came to the International
Ball last week. This set was charming, and
Australia herself had a distinction that won
the fancy of all as the group, led by a Dig-
ger carrying Australia’s starry flag, passed
in the March of the Nations. But, alas, they
failed to catch the judges’ eye; and Pre-
mier Bavin and Mrs. George Vivers (herself
an honor to Australia, her grace enhanced
by a flowing black frock of the backless vari-
ety) handed the first prize to the set repre-
senting China. This was full of color —crim-
son and violet and gold-green of the peacock
mingled and merged with the grey of the
twilight in the dazzling costumes, from tin-
ceremonial head-dress to the flashing little
fans. Greece, whose dancing girls swayed
wistaria-hung wrists, ran a dead-heat with
Lebanon and Italy for second place. Italy,
her youth robed in the virile greens and reds
of their country’s flag, would have found
favor in Mussolini’s eyes, while the girls of
Lebanon flashed a sparkling head-dress.
The ball was a great success, and organiser
Mrs. Albert Littlejohn and secretary Leonie
Bond must have felt a thrill when the
whisper reached them that over 1900 had
passed through the turnstile. The moire of
Mrs. Littlejohn’s long and spreading frock
wore gold and blue splashed on its parch-
ment background, and toned in with the
Vice-reine’s picture frock of sky-after-rain
chiffons and the glittering whiteness of
Admiral Evans’s wife. To the Governor’s
lady 27 debs, made their bob, so abbreviated
in some cases as to be a mere threepenny
bit. Mrs. Brigham, from Kirribilli, her
cheeks pink rose-leaves above her black
georgettes, convoyed the fledglings up the, red
carpet. Elaine de Chair, before and after
she led the pageant as Minerva, was wrapped
in white satin. Radcliffe Brown, Graham
de Chair, Bertie Kelly and Knight Henry
Braddon helped to balance the vice-regal
party on the male side.
There is mourning for Mrs. C. H. Town-
end (before her marriage Nell Daniels), of
Bradley’s Head. Last week, being just 31,
she succumbed after a brief illness. The
husband left to sorrow so soon after cele-
brating the ninth anniversary of his wed-
ding is advertising manager of Anthony
Horderns.
The dozen superb drawings which Norman
Lindsay did to illustrate “The Quarter-
master” have been reproduced in two-tone
ink on art paper, and are now on sale at The
Bulletin’s chief office, Sydney, and at all
branch offices. The complete set of one
dozen drawings costs only 25., and to put
country subscribers on the same footing as
those of the cities, the set will be sent post-
free from the head office to any address in
Australasia.


For Sale,
2000 BOOKS £25 to 6d. EACH
M
ANY old a-nd rare editions interestingly
catalogued in List 15, post free from the
SIGN OF THE HUNTSMAN,
Southborougli, Nr. Tunbridge Wells,
Kent, England.
Public Notice.
jyjß HAROLD T. MORGAN, Solicitor,
wishes to announce that he is still
currying on his practice in partnership with
Messrs. A. ,T. Morgan and Alfred T. Morgan
under the firm name of Harold T. Morgan
and iVlorgan at the undermentioned address.
He is not connected in any way with any
other firm of solicitors.
HAROLD T. MORGAN & MORGAN,
Solicitors and Notaries,
Ocean House, 34 Martin Place, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
H« Own Vault!
jK
Underinflation Caused
This Tyre to Wear Out
Long "Before Its Time
Modern tyres are so well made
that, if kept properly inflated, they
give good service until their treads
are worn threadbare.
The greatest enemy to
Tyre life is underinflation
Eighty per cent of all tyre failures
have been traced to improper infla-
tion alone. Premature tread wear .. ►
fabric ruptures .. . rim cuts ... side-
wall breaks . . . typify the costly re-
sults. Thus the added mileage science
builds into tyres today is being largely
wasted. Tyre expense has been in-
creased far beyond actual need.
Costly Tyre trouble
easily avoided
Have your car or tyre dealer tell
you the correct air pressure for your
tyres. Then buy a Schrader Tyre
Gauge, for balloon or high pressure
tyres, as you require. The Schrader
Gauge is sturdy, dependable, easy to
use, easy to read. Use it at least once
a week and before long trips to check
the actual air pressure in your tyres.
Always keep your Schrader Gauge
in your motor car.
Long life to your Tyres!
Now you can join the thousands
of experienced motorists who keep
their tyres correctly inflated, and get
every last mile of service from them.
k
Sold by
Accessory Dealers
everywhere
Schrader
Makers of Pneumatic Valves Since 1844
Tyre Valves :: Tyre Gauges
A. SCHRADER’S SON, Inc.
Proprietary Limited
422 Little Collins St.
Melbourne, Australia
’//K
m
m
<>
THIS
INEXPENSIVE
LUBRICATING
EQUIPMENT PAYS
ENCPMCUS PPCEITS
4
Alemite offers you an opportunity to elim-
inate wear and tear in the operation of your
farm machinery and equipment. In only a few hours you
can remove all old style grease cups and replace them
with the proper fittings. They are made in ail sizes and
angles—even drive fittings to plug the old oil holes.
Every bearing on every machine may be equipped and
lubricated in the same efficient Alemite manner.
The cost of Alemite is small, indeed, indi-
vidual fittings being but a few pence each. And lubri-
cating is simple once you have made the change. Each
bearing receives its proper amount of fresh, clean lubri-
cant. No waste —no unnecessary friction and wear!
Alemite is now standard equipment in 80%
of all farm implements manufactured in the United
States today. Why not let this improved modern lubri-
cation system earn for vou these added profits?
The Alemite (Push Type)
“Barrel-to-Bearing” System
How it works: Alemite provides a method
for positively and easily lubricating all your farm imple-
ments. It is simple, yet insures proper lubrication. No
grit nor dirt can possibly work into Alemite Lubricant.
At no time is it even exposed to the air.
1. The lubricant is first pumped from its original
drum into
2. The handy, portable Alemite Filler Tank, which
holds 20 lbs, of lubricant. From this container, which
can be easily carried about the farm, lubricant is
pumped directly into
3. The Alemite Push Type Compressor. By means
of this gun you can easily develop tremendous pressure
which forces clean lubricant through
4. The Alemite Push Type fitting, into the bearing
-cleaning it as it is lubricated.
See your nearest dealer or write for particulars.
ALEMITE MANUFACTURING
CORPORATION
Division of Stewart-Warner
Chicago, U. S. A.
Full particulars from
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH
Resident Manager,
250 Pitt Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following Representatives:
Bennett & Wood, Ltd 284 Pitt St., Sydney
Motor Supplies, Ltd Brisbane
Atkins (W. A.), Ltd 894 Hay St., Perth
E. A. Machin & Co. Pty., Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
Cornell Limited, 122Pirie St., Box G.P.O. 496 E., Adelaide
For the Dominion of New Zealand;
Jas. J. Niven & Co., 152 Wakefield St., Wellington, N. Z.
ALEMITE
High Pressure Lubrication
2 Wonderful
Song
Collections
'w!
r-'
S ■
fcWv!
• 11l
""•^aWSL
s■<* i~v v ,
hH
BVM*rv
102 POPULAR SONGS.
Including:—
Demon King Marks
Skipper’s Flag Bam
La Paloma (The Dove) .... Yradier
I Love You Truly . Carrie Jacobs Bond
Just a Wearying for You,
Carrie Jacobs Bond
Feather Your Nest.
Just a Wee Deoch-an’-doris . . Lauder
My Task Ashford
Rose of No Man’s Ljmd.
Volga Boat Song.
Abe, Abe, Abe My Boy. ' Abide With Me
After the Ball. Ah, Little Girl Don’t You Cry
Ah! So Pure. Alas! Those Chimes
Aloha Oe (Farewell to Thee)
Au Clair de la Lune (Trilby).
Bonnie Mary of Argyle
Bridal Chorus (“Lohengrin”)
Carry Me Back to Old Virginny
Cleansing Fires (Gabriel). -
Consider the Lilies. Darling Kelly Gray
Even Bravest Heart May Swell (“Faust’)
Every Flower (“Rigoletto”)
Farewell. Gaily the Troubadour
Genevieve (Bayley). . ,
Glory Song. Go Down Moses (Spiritual)
Habanera (“Carmen”).
Hail to the Happy Bridal Day (“Lucia )
Hark the Jingle Bells. Hen Convention
Here’s a Health Unto His Majesty
Here’s to the Maiden
Heroes of the Dardanelles
He’s a Jolly Good Fellow. J Love Thee
I’m Rolling Thro’ an Unfriendly World (Spiritual)
Aura Lee
Clementine
In the Time of Roses.
I Want to be Ready (Spiritual)
John Broyvn’s Body. John Peel
King’s Prayer (“Lohengrin”)
La Golondrina (The Swallow)
Lass with the Delicate Air
Lead, Kindly Light (Sandou)
Let Me Gaze (“Faust”). Life’s Dream Is Oer
Listen to the Mocking Bird
Londonderry Air (My Gentle Harp)
Lovely Flowers I Pray (“Faust”)
Many Happy Returns of the Day
Miner’s Dream of Home
My Pretty Jane. Nellie Was a Lady
Nobody Knows the Trouble I See (Spiritual)
Of That Dark Scaffold
Old Log Cabin in the Dell
On the Banks of Allan Water
On Yonder Rock Reclining (Auber)
Pilgrim’s Chorus (“Tannhauser”)
Prayer (“Der Freischutz”)
Rocked in the Cradle of the Deep
Sally in Our Alley. Salut Demeure (“Faust”)
Scenes that are Brightest (“Maritana”)
Serenade (Schubert). Ship I Love
Soldiers’ Chorus (“Faust”)
Solveig’s Song (Grieg)
Song that Reached My Heart. Sun of My Soul
Swing Low, Sweet Chariot (Spiritual)
Then You’ll Remember Me
Trilby’s Song (Ben Bolt). Wait for the Waggon
When Song is Sweet (Sans-Souci)
Who’s Dat Calling So Sweet?
Willow Song (Sullivan)
Woman is Fickle (La Donne Mobile)
And 18 other songs.
PRICE, 4/-; posted, 4/6.
A COLLECTION OF SONGS WE ALL REMEMBER-
d
CONTENTS
ď
rsazaffga
30/- worth of music for 2/-
Contains .
When the Sunset Turns the Ocean’s Blue to Gob
Absence Makes the Heart Grow Fonder
The Little Alabama Coon
In the Luggage Van Ahead.
On the Banks of the Wabash
Break the News to Mother
Oh, Dem Golden Slippers .
The Sweetest Story Ever Told.
Just Tell Them That You Saw Me
In the Good Old Summertime ...
Just, Before the Battle, Mother. Hear Dem Bei>
Kentucky Babe. Kingdom Comn-
The Golden Stair. Botanic
PRICE, 2/- ; posted, 2/2.
ALL MUSIC SELLERS
or
*9
r. ft
333 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, LAUNCESTON-


Monday to Friday—
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
From 7.30. Minimum Charge, 10/-
Saturday, Late Gala Night.
Special Table d’HOte Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
From 10 o’clock, Special Supper 12/6; or
a la carte, minimum, 12/6
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 to 5, 4/-. Parties of six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
The Ambassadors New Delightful
Dance Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and Rhythm that makes dancing an
effortless pleasure.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. 'Phone: M 4131.
đood
Hero. Titius Siiu
u
I don’t like Milk.”
Many mothers have this trouble
with the very children who
need milk most.
In nursing homes, hospitals,
etc., they have a way of making
everybody like milk. The
doctors call it Bengerising the
milk —this is really making
fresh milk into delicious
Benger’s Food.
Write for booklet to: —BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for "Room Only. European Plan.
"Dining Service 3. la Carte
STRICTLY FTRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
g l 3 I
Address Manager —
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
PARADISE PLUMES
BY GILBERT MUNRO TURNBULL
by o
Synopsis : Returning to Papua
after a holiday in Sydney, Stephen
Blake, District Magistrate, meets
Lesley Rowan, and, warmly attracted
to her, he is about to confess his lone,
when she tells him that she is going
to marry Harry Merton, a planter of
Akupaka Bay, the district in which
Blake’s out-station lies. Meanwhile,
Jimmy Glover, Assistant-Resident
Magistrate, learns that the native girl
Loana, who had been Merton’s mis-
tress, has been returned to her vil-
lage and their son sent _ to a mis-
sion school. Glover, fearing for the
white girl who is coming to marry
Merton, orders his native sergeant to
see that Loana is kept away from
Laubogi, Merton’s plantation. Blake
forces himself not to disillusion
Lesley over her fiancd, and tries to
cheer her by telling her she will like
Tod Lorimer and others. Lorimer, now
a rich man, has a half-caste daughter,
Moira, whom lie practically offered to
Blake as a wife, but the offer was re-
jected. The voyage ended, Lesley
marries Merton and goes to his plan-
tation, ivhere she gets her first hint of
the brutal side of his _ character when
he smashes his fist into the face of
Sam Turner, a dipsomaniac and local
identity, who calls and pleads for_ a
drink. Loana, smarting in her exile,
interviews Blake, but, though it
shames him to do so, he coerces her
into putting Merton out of her mind.
On a visit of inspection to Akupaka,
Blake is astounded when his appa-
rently sophisticated native sergeant
tells him seriously that that night
strange devils will flit through the
village.
CHAPTER XIII ( Continued).
THERE was something peculiar in
Babaka’s expression, a sort of sup-
pressed excitement, that kindled in
Blake a certain half-hearted measure of
interest. Babaka was a thoroughly trust-
worthy non-commissioned officer. More
than once Blake had seen him look squarely,
unflinchingly in the face of death; more
than once he had tested the man’s courage
and his devotion to the uttermost. Babaka
was not a man to be stampeded, or even
influenced, by stupid stories of the super-
natural if, behind them, there was not some-
thing that called for investigation. Blake
decided to interview Sabadi the ex-police-
man before leaving the village.
The drums of Akupaka were summoning
the villagers to the night’s dance.
Blake stood up.
“The police may attend the dance, Ser-
geant,” he remarked. He looked at his
watch. “See to it that all hands are on
their sleeping-mats by ten o’clock. You
and I, Sergeant, will tarry for a while with
the old men at the long-house.”
Babaka saluted. “It is good, Taubada.
Sabadi has a strange story to tell.”
Half-naked figures were dodging furtively
from the huts and assembling in the street
when Blake and his henchman reached the
village. The drums boomed forth slowly,
steadily—now rising, now falling—with a
low undertone of savage emotion. The old
women heaped wood on the smouldering
fires, and soon the flames leaped high,
lighting up grotesquely the oiled and painted
bodies of the natives.
The moon rode high, throwing into relief
the high-peaked huts and the grim bulk
of the long-house. The palm fronds were
like delicate silver trellis-work against the
soft night sky, trees and shrubs stood out
in bold relief, and the bronze bodies of the
dancers glistened in the silvery light. Blue
smoke from the fires drifted across the scene,
playing fantastically upon the dancing
figures. The effect was indescribably wend.
Ex-constable Sabadi stood up as the
magistrate approached, and, straightening
his withered body, saluted shakily. Half a
dozen of his cronies followed suit. Blake
motioned them to be seated, and, despite
their infirmities, they crossed their spindly
legs under them, and descended firmly upon
their haunches.
Blake climbed the ladder leading to the
platform, and, tossing a stick of tobacco to
Sabadi, sat down.
“The hour grows late, Sabadi,” he said.
“A fitting hour, my friend, to talk of ghosts
and the spirits of dead men and devils who
haunt the village when the night shades
fall.”
“In the old days, Taubada,” Sabadi
began, “when our ancestors walked upon the
earth, the men of Akupaka were fighting
men —mighty headhunters and eaters of
their enemies.”
Blake prepared himself to hear with
patience a long, disjointed story which would
ultimately lead up to the object of his visit.
This is the “New Guinea fashion.”
“So it was in the old days, Taubada,”
Sabadi continued. “Pigs the men of Aku-
paka had, and also cassowaries; fish and
bananas; sago and taro and yams; but
their real food—la! Their real food was
man! ”
Sergeant Babaka spat, disgustedly and
made a clicking noise with his teeth.
“This is evil talk, Taubada,” he growled.
From the ancient villagers came the sound
of a sharp intake of breath as they urged
Sabadi to continue.
Sabadi, like most of his countrymen,
possessed the gift of vivid narration, and
in fluent Motuan, employing many flowery
figures of speech, he related the ancient
tribal legend of Cape Kabasi.
“You know well the customs of the
Akupaka people, Taubada,” he went on.
“You have seen death come to the village;
you have heard the shrieks of the women,
the wailing of the men, and you have heard
the booming of the drums that speed a
warrior to his rest. All these things, and
many others, you have seen with your
eyes, Taubada, when a man of Akupaka
has been seized by the clutching hand of
Death. And because you are the Gava-
mani, and therefore wise, you have not
scoffed at the rites and beliefs of the
people.”
“True, Sabadi,” assented Blake patiently.
“I have not scoffed.”
Swiftly, silently, a group of natives
detached themselves from the crowd sur-
rounding the dancers, and squatted before
the long-house. Their breast ornaments
glittered in the pale .light; the dogs’-teeth
frontlets about their foreheads tinkled as
they composed themselves to listen. Blake
discerned in the throng the dark uniforms
and the shining equipment of some of his
police, and a powerfully-built man—a
stranger—attired in a dungaree loincloth
and an ancient, tattered waistcoat.
“And now, Taubada,” Sabadi continued,
after refreshing himself with betel-nut,
“because you are my friend, and the mend
of all the people, I will tell you things
whereof white men know nothing, Heaiken,
Taubada, to the story I had from my father,
who was an old man and a wise.
Sabadi pointed to the north, where Cape
Ivabasi loomed darkly against the cleai
night, sky.
“Yonder, Taubada, is the gateway of the
spirit world—and such men call the Place
of Departure. Alone and in fear the spirit
wanders to Kabasi. There it descends into
a mighty cavern. At the bottom is a dark
and noisome passage which leads from the
world of living men to the world of spirits
—an evil passage all men dread, Taubada,
but which in the fulness of time all men
must traverse.” .
Blake gave no sign that the Kabasi
legend was familiar to him. But he knew
very well from the growing excitement ot
Sabadi’s manner that the culmination of
his story was yet to come.
Suddenly the old man leaned forward.
“Go to my hut, Taubada,” he said in a
hoarse whisper. “I shall be waiting there.
I have things to tell not meant for curious
ears.” . . ,
Blake nodded. He made a sign to Babaka,
and presently they bade their hosts
night and departed. The crowd at the foot
of the ladder melted away at Blake s
approach. The heavily-built man in the
torn waistcoat had disappeared.
Guided by Sergeant Babaka, Blhke soon
found himself on the outskirts of the
village in front of Sabadi’s house. A low
voice bade him enter, and Blake crawled
through the tiny aperture into the sleeping
room.
It was dark and stifling in Sabadi’s hut.
A. plaited pig net hung in festoons from
the ridge; a bundle of black-palm spears
stood in a. corner; a collection of human
skulls, grisly relics of bygone, long-forgotten
feasts, seemed to grin malevolently at the
newcomers from their resting-places in the
high-peaked roof.
Blake leaned against the round mangrove
pole which held up the ridge, and filled
his pipe.
“Now, talk!” he commanded. ‘'The moon
wanes, Sabadi. My eyes grow weary, and
I would sleep!”
Sabadi twisted a shred of trade tobacco
in a strip of dried banana leaf and lit
up. He , puffed thoughtfully for a while,
his brows drawn up in a frown, his tired
old eyes scanning the magistrate’s face.
Sabadi made a gesture with his hand.
“How say you, Taubada,” he challenged,
“if I, Sabadi. tell you that with my own
eyes I have seen ghosts that move like
living men; that walk upon the ground and
yet make no sound; that glow with a pale
light like that of fireflies rising from the
earth? How say you, Taubada?”
“I say that you are a liar,” answered
Blake evenly.
Sabadi chuckled. “Good talk, Taubada !
he commended. “Good Gavamani talk.
Yet, the words I talk are true words I,
Sabadi. who have marched with the police,
wearing the stripe of a lance-corporal, have
seen the things whereof I speak. Hear me,
Taubada.”
“Once in every second moon [month],
and at the hour of the greatest darkness,
four, sometimes six, sometimes eight spec-
tral figures appear, as if coming from
Kabasi. Of the bigness of men they are,
and they move swiftly and with purpose,
hurrying through the village in the direc-
tion of the Gavamani station. Their foot-
falls are light as the down of the lalang;
and thev seem to be wrapped in flame.
They pass through the village, never paus-
ing. and disappear in the blackness of the
night. Devils they are, Taubada, from
Kabasi; devils in the likeness of men. -tie
paused, eyeing Blake closely. To-night,
Taubada, is the night appointed for then
passing.”
“Then to-night I will put a guard on the
village,” Blake retorted sourly, that to-
morrow all men may know you for a
f °Sabadi chuckled with great, satisfaction.
“Good talk, Taubada!” he applauded.
“Good Gavamani talk! To-night there will
be no ghosts in Akupaka.”
“I thought not, my friend,” Blake com-
mented drily. x
Sabadi grinned. “And I, Sabadi, will tell
you why.”
He placed a skinny hand upon the magis-
trate’s shoulder.
“Because, Taubada,” he said in a tense
whisper— “because of the presence of the
police with their rifles and their bayonets.
Blake started. Sabadi looked him squaiely
between the eyes. Blake could have sworn
that he also winked.
“Savee, sah?” he said in English. “These
Akupaka ghosts are ’nother kind!
*'* * *
Blake was aroused the following morning
by a discreet knocking upon the wall of
the rest-house.
“Daylight, sah!” announced Sergeant
Babaka.
Blake stepped out upon the verandah and
stood for a few minutes surveying the
village. He was very thoughtful as the
events of the previous night re-formed them-
selves in his mind. But for Sabadi’s enig-
matic wink and his cryptic reference to
the armed police, he would have regaided
the old fellow’s outrageous story with the
tolerance of an elder listening to the
babbling of an imaginative child.
“These Akupaka ghosts are ’nother kind!”
Blake was quite willing to believe that
they were.
The sun was well above the mountains
when Sabatari, the village constable,
appeared on the scene. Sabatari s eyes were
bloodshot, his mouth was loose, his uniform
rumpled. He had the appearance ofa
man who had been out all night. He
smartened up at the sight of Blake, and,
springing briskly to attention, threw a
sweeping salute.
“I have heard a strange story of devils
having the appearance of men on fire who
haunt the village in the dead hours of
night,” Blake opened. “What can you tell
me concerning these things?”
Sabatari threw a sidelong glance at the
magistrate. Then he raised his eyebrows
and his lips parted in a smile of amuse-
ment. , ,
“A foolish tale, Taubada,” he declared,
“spread by foolish old men whose time
hangs heavy on their hands.”
Blake watched him closely. “No more
than that, Sabatari?”
“No more, Taubada,” averred Sabatari
earnestly.
Blake dismissed him with a curt nod
and turned to' Sergeant Babaka,
“The police will take the whaleboat to
Laubogi,” he ordered. “You and I will
walk thither along the beach.”
He turned on his heel. He had pro-
ceeded some distance before Sergeant
Babaka caught up with him.
“This kinsman of yours—Sabatari—is a
man of much wisdom, Sergeant,” Blake re-
marked. He was thinking of a day in
court, four years ago, when Sabatari had
given much startling evidence concerning
the girl Loana, his daughter.
“My wife’s kinsman, sah,” Babaka cor-
rected gently. “He is, in truth, possessed
of much wisdom.”
(Continued on page 51.)


nAMEs
tToMark
Alf Linen
Indispensable to every Household.
CASH’S NAMKS/ are destincfive,
yet neat fadeless and durable^
<0 & < 7tc£tiasxA.
Sold by all
Best Drapers
Actual Sire, Style No, 6
Prices:
I2dz, 7/6.
6dz, 56.
3dz, 3/6
"A few stitches and they're on, *
Write for Name Style Circular lo
J. & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt St., Richmond, Melb
s
a
Washing
Jbx Lingerie
rjKlert Attention to Your 'Needs...
“•AMD THOUGHT UPON YOUR COMFORT
is tile policy that has placed the Wentworth in the front
rank of Australian hotels. Efficiently managed under the
personal direction of Mrs. H. Maclurcan, it is the centre
of all smart gatherings and the chosen rendezvous of the
leaders in Society.
They appreciate, from personal experience, the real ser-
vice, the luxurious comfort and excellent cuisine for
which the Wentworth definitely sets a standard of
quality. Wire or Write jor reservations.
Qhe Wentworth
d
Church Hill,
Sydney.
7hp centre of Queens/onc/s
' c/zstmOu/stec/ Socio/ Life.
Wcmorn
W)o\c\
ď
BRISBANE
Magnificent ts ai i-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal ol
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, wi£
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Lines.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckler's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
[?]
A cold wind and showers alternating with
sunshine were our meteorological lot on
Saturday, but the weather didn't make much
difference to the size of the crowd at the
V.A.T.C. races at Caulfield. The officers
from the Tourville were invited guests, and
they were charmed with the course. They had
some lingual difficulties with the bookies until
a learned prof, came to the rescue and acted
as interpreter. Feminine fashion was a
matter of fur coats and silk-hosed legs. A
few brave souls laid pelts aside between
the downpours and showed smart coat-and-
skirt costumes. Ninette Turck was arresting
in a smartly-cut black suit with a black
beret. She wore across her white vest a
cap-ribbon of the Tourville. June Baillieu’s
dull green fisherman’s cap topped a fawn
and brown tweed costume. Betty Shackell
was in navy blue. Mrs. Claude Grice, wear-
ing wrap-coat and felt millinery in mixed
hues of brown, was in the committee ladies’
box with Mrs. T. A. Tabart and Mrs. Ben
Chaffey. Others who tried to pick winners
were Marie de Bavay, Mrs. Merson Cooper,
Prof, and Mrs. A. Gunn, Mr. and Mrs.
James Purves and Dr. Murray Morton.
At the United Service Institute’s Ball,
held at St. Kilda Town Hall on Friday
night, the “Marseillaise” as well as the
British Anthem was heard. The revolution-
ary ditty ushered into the ballroom Captain
Abrial and the officers of the French cruiser
Tourville, Dr. John Bull’s piece being played
for Lieutenant-Governor Irvine and his lady.
Uniforms of the Navy, Army and Air Force
added color to the gathering, and the decora-
tions represented in flags and arms the
trinity of defence. Reception duties fell to
the president of the ball committee, Com-
mander Langford, supported by Mrs. Lang-
ford, whose amber-lace gown was picked out
in tracery of gold beads. Among the dancers
were Commodore J. B. Stevenson, with Mrs.
Stevenson, she in draperies of grey lace;
Rene Turck, Consul for France, and his
wife, she in black chiffon. Their daughter
Ninette sported a pale gold lace frock that
suggested Parisian origin. Others in the
throng were General Chauvel, the Chauvel
lady in white with some sparkle of sequins.
Commander and Mrs. Creswell, Colonel and
Mrs. Ralph, and Colonel and Mrs. Cass.
There were scores of daintily-clad misses,
including Cora Spowers, Marnie Clarke,
Molly Neil and Elizabeth Moran.
Feminine society parked its sedans on
Domain-road, South Yarra, the other after-
noon when Mrs. ITarry Emmerton said
an revoir to her friends prior to taking her
departure with the delegation to the Insti-
tute of Pacific Relations to be held at Kyoto.
Mrs. F. W. Eggleston and her daughter
Jean, who are joining the migration to
Japan as visitors, shared honors as special
guests with the Groom lady and her daughter
Jessie, who are returning to Canberra after
a sojourn of some months in pa’s native
Toowoomba, Peach and almond blossom and
daffodils lent a festive air to the ballroom
of Raveloe, where contralto Lena Worland,
tenor Walter Kirby, Dr. Arnaldo Bartolini
and ITector Goldspink provided entertain-
ment. The hostess had a gleam of silver
beneath the transparency of a black velvet
embossed ninon gown, which was topped by
a black felt hat spread with grey quills.
Her niece Mary Emmerton wore a black
hat above a ninon frock patterned in red
and green. A couple of primrose yellow
tulips nestling in her millinery brightened’
the black attire of Littleton Groom’s lady,
and her daughter was in summery raiment
and a japonica-red straw hat. Frank
Clarke’s lady wore an ensemble of gendarme-
blue, with a largish straw hat in tone. Mrs.
Robert Power, Mrs. Colin Fraser, the Elder
lady and Mrs. Norton Grimwade were among
the guests.
Before going to the kettle-boiling at Mrs.
Emmerton’s home, the Mitchell lady dropped
into the monthly social chattering of Vic-
toria Leaguers at headquarters, to put in a
plea for the Bush Library, and particularly
asked for books for the children of the Out-
back. Folk having books the children have
finished with can help by forwarding these
to the Victoria League Club, Auditorium
Buildings-, Collins-street. Several members
played hostesses at the afternoon’s tea-pour-
ing, and in lulls in the cup and saucer
clatter, Dorothy Gadsden, Marie Doran,
Valerie Walsh and some others were heard
in vocal and instrumental excerpts.
The Royal Horticultural Society’s daffo-
dil show last week brought spring to the
Town Hall. Carnations, sweet-peas,
cintlis and great crimson tulips were there
a-many. The Orchid Club of Victoria sent
a wonderful exhibit, the most striking of
thq blooms being pure white, and from the
City Council's green-house came cinerarias
and cyclamens. Daffodils flapped their yellow
petals in hundreds—single specimens, rows
upon rows, in glass bottles, clusters in larger
jars, and groupings for table decorations,
where they were associated with gumtips and
maidenhair fern in rose-bowls and wicker
baskets. Alister Clark was represented by
a non-competitive collection of bulbs. P. W.
Dyson, of Croydon, won the championship
with a White Nile,-an almost colorless variety,
a. contrast to another of his successful exhi-
bits, a bloom of deepest gold named Renown.
Howard ITitehcock, M.L.C., of Geelong, an
enthusiastic amateur gardener, opened the
show, which was marked off by the R.PI.S.’s
eightieth milestone.
Marjorie Shannon, who is due to become
Mrs. Bob Wischer before this sees print, was
given a party by the F. Sheppard Grim-
wades at the Ivew home of Mrs. Grim-
wade’s parents, Mr. and Mrs. Walter Car-
negie. Floral embellishment blended tones of
pink, blue and mauve in the ballroom, where
bridge-tables were lined up. Embroidery in
roseate tones and blue was traced upon the
dipping draperies of faint pink worn by the
hostess. The bride-elect was in apple-green
chiffon with a radiation of silver.
For the. Musical Society’s Australian Com-
posers’ Night . most of the programme was
quite easy to listen to, modernist dissonances
being scarce. A trio for piano, violin and
horn, by W. Arundel Orchard, director of
the N.S.W. Con., was very melodious, and a
Scottish violin sonata by Alfred Hill, of the
same Con., was breezy in atmosphere. Louis
Lavater’s piano sonata “L’Allegro” was
played by Phyllis Parlett. Among song-
makers represented were Edwin Burchett,
David J. Coutts and Claude Playdon. Violet
Jackson was one of the singers.
The Mackey lady, arrayed in black satin,
smiled greeting upon many bidden to her
home to drink tea and say au revoir to Mrs.
Harry Emmerton on the eve of her voyage
to Japan. . Mrs. Emmerton wore a black
ensemble suit and had white foliage wreathed
upon a black hat. Joyce and actress Beth,
in summery confections, lent their mother a
hand. Mrs. George Peabody, lately arrived
to join her son. S. R. Peabody, the U.S.A.
Trade .Commissioner, was a guest of honor.
Her filmy patterned gown was topped by a
Bangkok straw hat.
A dance was given on board the liner
Cathay on Friday night by the manager of
Macdonald, Hamilton and Co., Percy Alder-
ton, and Captain R. H. Griffin. Members
of the Travel Promotion League were guests
of. honor.. Mrs. Alderton, wearing black
chiffon with embellishment of embroidery,
gave greeting with the hosts. Among the
guests were H. J. Manson, president of the
T.P.L.; Mrs. Manson and their daughter
Myrtle, the last-named in a frock of old-
rose hue.
As a preliminary to the music club’s con-
cert on Friday, George Henry, aged seven,
whose dad is a well-known teacher of the
pianoforte, gave a sample of his ability as
a fiddler. He played Rubinstein’s “Melody
in F” and the Papini “Tarantelle,” evi-
dencing possession of a true ear, and, though
he has had only a year’s tuition, facility
in double stopping. A selection of music
for two pianos by Rita Hope and Katie
Liddle, with songs in French and English
by Violet Somerset, constituted the main
programme.
Mrs. J. E. Goodall will be the sprite in Fritz
Hart’s “Woman Who Laughed at Faery,”
which, with
“The Daugh-
ter of the Re-
giment,” will
be performed
by Albert-
street Con.
students at the
Playhouse this
month. Yourvr.
slim and tall,
she is cast for
a part which
is really a
male one. As
Kathleen Fan-
ning she had
experience in
comic opera
and musical
comedies with
the Firm, her
first engage-
ment being as
understudy to
Gladys Moncrieff in “Sybil.” Mrs. Goodall
is a Westralian, hailing from Fremantle, and
received her vocal training at St. Joseph’s
convent there. She is a niece of Senator
Ivingsmill’s wife, and married about four
years ago Jack Goodall, a nephew of the
Merson Coopers. Lately she became a
student under Rita Coonan at the Con.,
which accounts for her appearance in the
Celtic opera. Ruskin made the portrait.
The Bulletin office windows on Thursday
looked down upon a huge crowd of women
shoving and jostling to get into the basement
of Payne’s temporary Bon Marche. The
attraction was the opening of the sale of
burnt, smoked and damped goods salvaged
from the firm’s fire of some weeks ago. Police-
men rescued fainting females and terrified
children from the melee of perspiring
humanity brandishing on high suitcases of
all sizes and shapes. The doors were opened
only at intervals, and many women waited
patiently for hours, victorious purchasers
being greeted with cheers.
Early in the day the onrush of excited
skonpers smashed in one of the windows,
with the result that two of Payne’s staff
were forced to sit on guard in the aperture
for hours. On Friday special cuts in various
lines at most other shops lessened the
pressure of the bargain seekers, who divided
their patronage with Bourke-street em-
poriums to such an extent that mounted
police were not needed in Flinders-street as
on the previous day.
Mrs. Eric Harrison, pictured here by
Shier, is organiser of a dance at Grong
Grong, Toorak, on the 27th, which is to pro-
vide a sort of financial foundation-stone for
the Air Force Trust Fund, for the assistance
of widows and
orphans of Air
Force Officers.
C o n s-i derablc
interest is be-
ing taken in
this effort, and
several sub-
scriptions have
come in.
Among these
is £lOO from
Prof. Payne,
president of
the Air Acci-
dents Commit-
tee. Mrs. See-
kamp, who is
the keeper of
the trust fund,
is the hon.
treas. of the
dances, Mrs.
Walne being
the hon. secre-
tary. Mrs. Harrison, one of a third genera-
tion of Australians, is the wife of Wing-
Commander Eric Harrison, who was the first
commanding officer at Foint Cook, and the
only daughter of ex-Premiej and
his wife.
Augusta Poole, a Titian-haired maiden
with a smooth evenly produced contralto
voice, showed promise in her recital of Ger-
man lieder and selections from oratorio at
the Australian Hall lately. Hazel Foletta,
a light soprano, sang Franch and English
numbers and also oratoria.
Gazing upon this year’s materials for
summer frocks, hope deferred makes the
heart sick, for, instead of the weather giving
us a chance of preening ourselves in such
beautiful plumage, it becomes colder and
more unreliable. The stuffs spread out in
clothing shops grow more amazingly lovely,
and Eve’s serpent was a -mere novice
in the art of temptation compared with the
manufacturers of these fabrics. There are
silks of all nationalities and makes and
hosts of synthetic imitations. Crossed with
cotton are strands of shiny muslin, sprayed
with geometrical designs or flowers in
natural colors. Then there are chiffons and
ninons, filmy as cobwebs, upon which the
frailest of blossoms hold carnival. Crepes,
which started out all over wrinkles and
crinkles, now have a surface smooth to the
naked eye and softy radiating. Gowns will
make a glad showing this season if Caulfield
and Melbourne Cup days are seasonably
torrid.
Ruby May, who was the star performer of
the Repertory Society’s latest season, made a
handsome lady of doubtful morals in the
curtain-lifter “St. Simeon Stylites.” Her
flowing draperies of pale green traced with
gold and her jewelled brow band were most
becoming, and she adroitly managed her
lengthy garments when mounting and de-
scending the ladder to the column above the
troetops where the Saint (Howard Smith) had
taken his stand. Athol Fulford, the leading
lady of “The Race with the Shadow,” dressed
the r6lc in flowered chiffon and figured satin.
A large audience filled the Central H'all for
Frederick Whitlow’s recital. His lighter
characterisations met with pronounced suc-
cess, especially the sketch “Scandal over the
Fence.” Mr. Whitlow is remarkably deft
in the art of make-up. Songs by Joan Thorn-
ley and Henry Webster, supplemented by
the fiddle solos of Irene M. Cox and piano-
forte numbers of Grace Lynch, backed up the
Melbourne entertainer’s efforts. Outstanding
turns of the evening were classic dance
numbers by pupils of Eunice Weston. Esme
Eshellby earned laurels as a solo pirouetter,
Dora Wilson, who went abroad two years
ago, has made good use of brush and palette.
At her exhibition of canvases bung in Lon-
don’s Beaux Arts there were 50-odd paintings
on view. Amongst the collection was a por-
trait of young Christopher Rous, who passed
over during his parents’ term at the State
House. This will presently be added to the
otradbroke gallery of Australian pictures,
together from various local shows. Miss
\\ llson also held an exhibition in Paris,
where the critics were encouraging.
Margaret, eldest daughter of Frank Clark,
and his lady, has just announced that she
will wed at some future date John, second
so 1 * °t the late Arthur Oldham, and of Mrs.
Oldham, of Toorak.
Sheila, daughter of Mrs. John Buchan, of
Kew, is to be married at St. Margaret’s,
London, on the 14th, to Lieut. George Ches-
tcrman Phillips, ILN. Miss Buchan and her
mother have been holidaying abroad for some
months.
Mrs. C. Latham Baillieu, formerly Ruby
.Clarke, who since her marriage has resided
in London, lent her house at Englefield Green
for the wedding reception when the Smith-
Baillieu knot was slipped at the parish
church at Windsor. Auntie Latham, over
on a visit, celebrated the event by giving a
party before the happening. The bride, Amy,
is a daughter of W. L. Baillieu of this city,
and her husband, Julian Ormond Smith, a
son of one of our most skilful surgeons, is
taking a special course in an English hos-
pital. Later it is the couple’s intention to
return to Melbourne and start housekeeping.
For years Edith Coleman has arranged
the orchid exhibit at the Naturalists’
Society’s show of wild blossoms. Orchids
are her hobby. This year the show, to be
held early in October at St. Kilda’s Town
H'all, may receive some new specimens, for
Miss Coleman is leaving her Blackburn home
to go west, where the wild orchid hides in
out-of-reach corners.
Australians bidden to Mrs. Jules Wendt’s
party at Claridge’s in London last month got
a pleasant thrill of anticipation on seeing a
sealed envelope beside each plate. On open-
ing these a dainty silk hanky was discovered
embroidered with the monogram of the new
owner. The hostess encountered this novel
idea at a party in Paris, and carried it
across the Channel.
Passed out suddenly last week at Lister
House, Collins-street, Mrs. Horne, widow
of Dr. George Horne and a daughter of Dr.
Bowie, who landed in Yic. with his family
in 1852. She was associated with many
philanthropic movements, including the Time
and Talents Society and children’s welfare
work. Mrs. Horne, though over 80, was a
keen follower of cricket, and during the
Melbourne visit of the last English XI saw
every match. Bridge was another of her
pleasures, and an hour or so before the
call came she had played some capital hands.
Her faithful and cheery companion of past
years was her niece Helen Bowie, who re-
sided wfith her in her flat, high above the
city’s roar.
When the tramway heads have viewed the
new home of Mr. and Mrs. Noel Richards at
Mentone, the price of discarded cable ears
will go up with a rush. Mr. Richards bought
three cast-away cars, put them side by side,
spread a roof over all, added a bit of veran-
dah here and a wing with a couple of rooms
somewhere else, and so evolved quite a
comfortable cottage. The proud couple held
a house-warming the other day to introduce
their friends to the novel dwelling. Of
course, they are not pioneers in the field.
Vinie Deloitte, otherwise Mrs. Howard
Vernon, years ago converted a couple of
obsolete tramcars into a nice shack on a bit
of farmland near the H'arbor City.
Mrs. Edith Johns packed up her bridge-
scorers and some clothes and departed for
the Harbor City the other day, having dis-
posed of her bridge club at St. Kilda, which
in eight months had accumulated a large
membership. She is not retiring from the
bridge field, but will step into the circle at
Cremorne over which Mrs. R. Stewart pre-
sided. Mrs. Stewart is making tracks for
G.B. in order to give her flapper daughter
Betty a chance of developing her talent
for art.
At the concert given by the Uni. Con.’s
symphony orchestra on Saturday night Spiva-
kovsky, whose pianoforte recitals had been
held up for a week as he was a victim of ’flu,
was soloist in the Tschaikowsky pianoforte
concerto, and responded to a storm of
approval by playing two sparkling extra
numbers. Mr. and Mrs. Edward Stevens, the
Barrett lady and Cara, Mrs. Harry Emmer-
ton and the Groom and Allen ladies were
in the audience.
Rosa Pinkerton, a Melbourne songbird who
flitted to Europe about three years ago,
writes that she is again in London, after
a South African tour of over four months
as lead in the musical comedy “So This Is
Love.” The critics were kind.
The dozen superb drawings which Norman
Lindsay did to illustrate “The Quarter-
master” have been reproduced in two-tone
ink on art paper, and are now on sale, at The
Bulletin’s chief office, Sydney, and at all
branch offices. The complete set of one
dozen drawings costs only 2s., and to put
country subscribers on the same footing as
those of the cities, the set will be sent post-
free from the head office to any address in
Australasia.


DRUMMOND’S
EXCLUSIVE JEWELLERY
e-3
Cu
m
CVJ
aa
Man’s Wristlet Watch, of smart design, fitted with
a reliable 15-jewel Swiss Lever Movement. Strong
“Chronium” case. Splendid timekeeper. Best
value in Australasia, £l/15/-
cn
Lady’s Gold Wristlet Watch, fitted with a fine
quality, reliable 15-jewel Swiss Lever Watch. Patent
adjustable gold snap. Wonderful value at £4.
Lady’s 18-Carat White Gold Wristlet Watch, set with
90 fine quality diamonds. The lever movement is
fully jewelled and compensated. Exceptional time-
keeper, £ 60.
Solitaire Dia-
mond Ring,
set in plati-
num, £25.
Diamond Ring
with diamond-
set “s t e p”
shoulders, £25
Diamond Ring,
with diamond-
set shoulders,
£35.
Calibre-cut Dia-
mond Ring,
platinum-set,
£BO
Fine Quality
Diamond Ring,
with diamond-
set shoulders,
£5O
Smaller from
£2O
DRUMMONDS are continually adding to their large selections of
exquisite Diamond and Gem Rings and Jewellery designs, both
distinctive and of unsurpassable quality and workmanship,
executed in their own workshop on the premises. The illustrations
represent, in exactly the size of the actual rings offered, some
favored designs with settings of Pure Hard Platinum. The firm’s
Watches are of the finest quality and the newest designs that it is
possible to obtain. Complete satisfaction is assured or money will
be refunded. Illustrated Watch, Ring or Gift Catalogue will be
mailed post free to any address.
William Drummond & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
That Technical BooK
You Want
Price. Postage.
Motor Bodywork—Design, Construction of Private, Commercial
and Passenger Types, by Herbert Butler 6/- /
Stainless Iron and Steel, by J. Monypenny • 26/- lOd.
Coanes’ Australasian Roads —The Location, Design, Construction
and Maintenance of Roads and Pavements • 36 /* sd ‘
8.0. T. Steam, Oil and Marine Engineering Knowledge, by
W. C. Macgibbon 36/- 1/4
Leather Manufacture —by H. Procter • • 4Z /‘ 1 / b
Sawmills—Their Management and Arrangement and the
Economical Conversion of Timber, by M. Bale 19/- 9d.
Modern Woodworking Machinery—S. Ransome 19/- 9d -
Recipes—For the Color, Paint, Varnish, Oil, Soap and Dry-saltery
Trades Compiled by an Analytical Chemist 13/6 Bd.
Dyeing and Cleaning of Textile Fabrics—Handbook for the
Amateur and the Professional, by Owen 16/- sd.
Farm Engineering —Vol. 1, Farm Mechanics, by Byron Robb . . 16/- Bd.
Tin, Sheet-iron and Coppfer-plate Worker, by L. Blinn 15/- sd.
Domestic Sanitation and House Drainage, by Henry Adams 13/6 6d.
Sketching in Lead Pencil for Architects and Others—J. Salwey . . 10/- sd.
Boat Sailing for Amateurs, by Davis 19 /‘
Saws, Their Care and Treatment —H. Durham . ... • • 7/6 4d.
Electrical Ignition, for Internal Combustion Engines—M. Codd 7/6 3d.
Pattern Making and Foundry Practice, by L. Hand 7/6 4d.
Confectionery—Science and Practice, by D. Ellis .......... 6/6 6d.
Carpentry and Cabinetmaking Practical Handbook —
J. Arkwright 3/6 6d.
Repousse Metalwork, by Horth 4/6 4d.
Painting Troubles and Their Remedy—A. Millar 5/- 3d.
Details of Cabinet Construction 4 /6 4d.
Woodwork Tools and How to Lise Them 4/6 4d.
Practical Upholstery, by E. Boreham . ..• • • • 4 / 6 4d.
Staining and Polishing—lncluding Varnishing and Other Methods
of Finishing Wood with Appendix and Recipes 4/6 4d.
Toy Making—For Pleasure and Profit, by Hetherington ...... 3/6 4d.
Decorator’s and Renovator’s Assistant (Six Hundred Receipts) 3/6 4d.
Machinery’s Handbook For Machine Shop and Drafting Room.
Revised and Enlarged Edition, 1928 •••• 36 /‘
Diesel and Oil Engineering Handbook—Land and Marine
Practical Handbook, by J. Rosbloom • 30/- 6d.
Cements, Pastes, Blues and Gums —With upwards of Nine
Hundred Recipes and Formulas, by Standage . 4/6 4d.
ABC of Television, or Seeing by Radio—Theory, Construction
and Operation R. Yates •• *®/’
Motor Boat Manual—Section on Outboard Motors and Boats . . 6/6 6d.
Everybody’s Aviation Guide— 10/- 6d.
Aerial Navigation and Meteorology—Comprehensive Treatise in
Simple Language—Yancey . .... 20/- 1/2
Modern Aviation Engines—Basic Principles—Operation, Inspec-
tion, Construction, Repair, Installation, by Page, in 2 vols.
set 45/- 2/6
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
TECHNICAL BOOKSHOP,
Corner CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
TOO-OLD”
TIRED-OUT
MEN
HERE IS A SIMPLE INEXPENSIVE REMEDY
Too-old, tired-out men, complaining
of lack of vigor and vitality, you
will never be fit, well and happy until
you face facts. Your trouble in the
true sense is a blood trouble, starting
at the kidneys. The kidneys may be
said to rule the body’s health. When
the kidneys are failing to keep the
blood-stream pure, poisons and waste
matters accumulate. Thus, with an
impure blood supply surging through
the body, poisons are lodged in the
muscles, joints, etc., and every tiny
nerve centre calls out in pain. That
is why your “nerves,” as you say,
are on edge. The impure, sluggish
blood makes you tired, weak and
lacking in the vim and vigor to enjoy
work and pleasures.
This Remedy Bears
a Guarantee
There is a remedy for this depressing,
health-destroying state of affairs, and
a very simple remedy, too, that will
bring you health and happiness, as
for thousands of others. It is no
secret. It has been known for over
40 years under the name of De
Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills.
Tens of thousands of people have,
tested this remedy and found it reli-
able in all cases of Loss of Vitality,
Lumbago, Weak Back, Sciatica,
Bladder Weakness and Kidney
Trouble. Go to your chemist now and
secure a supply of this inexpensive
yet invaluable remedy. The 3/6
you spend will be the best investment
you will ever make. There is a
larger, more economical size at 6/6.
Ask him to tell you candidly his
opinion of this famous remedy. He
will tell you all about the table of
ingredients printed on the box, and
why they are so good for you.
JUST ONE FROM THOUSANDS
OF LETTERS OF GRATITUDE
Mr. Alfred Wall, 7 Walter Street,
Yarraville, Victoria, writes: “For six
weeks I lay on my back with rheuma-
tism, aching pains in my back, lum-
bago. I was told I could not be
benefited. A friend of mine told me
about De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills and 1 started on them. I do
not regret it. I am now in perfect
health. I have told several people of
the little "De Witt’s” bottle and of
my return to health.”
%
%
>
1
/
i /
V ■
I
Tr
VO
v
I
S'A
De Witt’s Pills is not a new craze-of-the-moment remedy. For 40 years
it has been bringing health, vigor and vitality to over-worked, tired-out men
and women. It is recognised as a splendidly beneficial remedy in cases o
Rheumatism, Chronic Backache, Sciatica, Lumbago, Bladder Weakness, and the
nervous troubles and pains that accompany excess of uric acid in the system.
The very young, the weakest and the oldest can take De Witt s Kidney and
Bladder Pills. No dangerous drugs or purgatives, no heart-exciting chemicals,
but a scientific preparation that will do you good from the very first dose.
Get “De Witt’s” and get health and happiness. In 24 hours you will see
results. This is our guarantee.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills, because of their wonderful popularity,
have been imitated. Other kidney pills there may he, but for your own
health’s sake and your pocket’s sake refuse all imitations.
E
9
PIUS
KIDNEY
AND
BLADDER


The Commonwealth Life (Amalgamated) Assurances
Limited.
Head Office: “THE BLOCK,” 424-430 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - £500,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL £150,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS £140,000
The Directors of the abovenamed Company beg to announce that they have
retained
MR. A. T. TRAVERSI, F.I.A. (Lond.), F.C.A.S. (New York),
formerly N.Z. Government Actuary and Government Insurance Commissioner, as
Consulting Actuary.
This step was rendered necessary by the growing importance of existing business
and the probability of further absorptions arising from the imminence of Federal
Legislation to control Life Insurance Companies.
• The Commonwealth Amalgamated’s present staff and new offices are suitable and
ready for any desirable extension of business. The name of the company is eminently
suitable for the grouping of several of the younger companies who may find separate
existence increasingly expensive and difficult in the near future, and a formula has been
prepared which may afford them easy and creditable entry into joint, economical and
safe existence. The opportunity now exists for the Responsible Officer of any company
to open negotiations.
JAMES S. INCH, General Manager.
mm
■
1
xxxx:
x
S
1
111
..
an
WMm
mm
HWH
EXCLUSIVE
DISTINCTIVE
TAILORING
PERFECT CUT
THE FINEST
MATERIALS
AND NEWEST
PATTERNS
MAY FAIR 1870
LADIES TAILOP
LONDON
at
19 Princes Street
Hanover Square W. I.
EXTENDS YOU A WELCOME
SPECIALISING IN SUP-
PLYING VISITORS TO
THE "OLD COUNTRY"
WITH TAILORED
CLOTHES SUITABLE
FOR BOTH AUSTRA-
LASIAN AND EUROPE-
AN WEAR-HOPES FOR
THE PLEASURE OF
YOURVISIT-ASUITTO
PLEASE THE MOST
FASTIDIOUS AT 15 GNS
Amusements.
QYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: THE FIVE-
O’CLOCK GIRL.
ROYAL: IT PAYS TO ADVERTISE.
(Commencing Saturday.)
CRITERION: LOMBARDI, LTD.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
I C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
SHOW BOAT.
ROYAL:
JOURNEY’S END.
Amusements.
g£ ING ’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
WHOOPEE.
UOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
* 1 MELBOURNE.
100 PER CENT. ALL TALKIE.
STRANGE CARGO.
With GEORGE BARRAUD.
ALSO
See and hear MARION NIXON in
GERALDINE.
Bald or Grey Heads
often mean Failure
Many a woman has lost her charm and many a
man his job and popularity through a grey or bald
head! Don’t let the world say you’re getting old
—keep young! Get rid of your grey hairs the eas'
way: Get a package of Yi-Glo from the chemist and
rub into the scalp. Vi-Glo contains a new ingredient
that wakes up the color and growth cells and quickly
brings back young, abundant hair. The cost is onl.'
3/-, including a special shampoo—very little to
stand between you and popularity. If no chemist
near, send 3/4 to Vi-Glorient Co., Kembla Builduig,
Sydney, and outfit will reach you by post. Satis-
faction guaranteed.
if any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Center of Queensland's
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The Governor and Lady Goodwin have
been on the Downs watching polo played at
Clifford Park, T’woomba. Another happen-
ing of the week in the Queen City of the
Downs was the garden party given by Dr.
Byrne, T’woomba’s new bishop, to 3000
citizens and a number of prelates. Dr.
Cattaneo, with the other dignitaries, sat
upon the green lawns and took tea in the
kiosk at tables dressed in purple and white.
Mrs. Jolly had a reception in the Mayor-
ess’s room, which is furnished with Aus-
tralian-made goods. Orchids and cinerarias
and maidenhair were spread, and bowls of
fern set about the room. Pink azaleas in
silver vases were on the tea tables. Lady
Goodwin came in a wine-colored silk coat
over ashes-of-roses mariette, with a beige
tuscan straw hat. Mrs. Jolly was in cream
mariette ’broidered in bright flowers, and a
visca hat. Mrs. Moore wore navy cr€pe de
Chine and Oriental trimmings, her beige felt
hat showing black-and-orange mounts.
There was music, and Mayor Jolly helped
to welcome the throng.
Lady Goodwin went to the annual meet-
ing of the League of Women Relatives of
Soldiers and Sailors in the League rooms.
Mrs. Jolly was also there, Mesdames Grier-
son Brown, E. S. Mutton, Mercer, Harvey
Gibbon and Johnson receiving them, and
presenting bouquets of sweet-peas.
The United Service Club invited friends
to come to see its remodelled rooms at an
informal dance. The president, T. R. Beam-
ish, and his wife, she in black silk lace and
beaded mariette, received.
Henri Tardent, who always looked so
merry and bright, died at his home, Ormants.
Wynnum West, last week, aged 77. He was
a moving spirit in all literary and artistic
movements in Brisbane, and three of his
sons gave distinguished service in the Great
War. He contributed to Parisian publi-
cations, and last year received the decoration
of Officer of the French Academy.
The mother of late Chief Justice McCaw-
ley died this week at her home, Wynnum
South. As a girl of nine she came to Queens-
land with her parents, the Martin Stenners,
and in ’65 she married James McCawley, who
then ran mail contracts in south-west
Queensland. Her husband died in 1921.
Pretty Edith Barry, who has always taken
an active part
entertainments
in theatrical
in aid of chari-
ties, and who
is a most popu-
lar member of
the younger
set, announces
her engage-
ment to Pay-
master - Lieu-
tenant Patrick
O’Reilly, o f
11. M. A. S.
Moresby. The
young man is
the son of Mrs.
W. O’Reilly.
Longford
(Tas.). Miss
Barry is the
elder daughter
of the E.
Barrys, of
Ascot, Brisbane. One of her many accom-
plishments is that she is a beautiful' dancer.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Persistent rain did not greatly affect the
race-day attendance at Morphettville, though
the storm nearly swept women off their feet
as they dodged from the stand to the totali-
sator before each race. His Ex. was there,
and was entertained by chairman Carlyle
Marshall and his wife at luncheon and after-
noon tea.
Adelaide society is embarking upon a
League of Nations Pageant, the prime
movers being Mayoress Bonython, .Judge
Napier s pretty wife, who has nobly under-
taken to make 600 costumes in eight weeks,
and Kenneth Duffield (producer), who has
enlisted the, services of Esmond George as
stage-manager. Miss Collisson, in Melbourne,
is busy arranging the series of scenes, which
will open with Dante’s Inferno and include
the battle on the Somme, for which 150 men
aie required, a French cabaret, and other
spectacular features. Adelaide promises to
be in a feverish hurry for the next few
weeks. Among the intended beneficiaries is
the S.A. Orchestra, which in return will be
asked to give incidental music.
St. John’s Church, Halifax-street, cele-
brated its 00th birthday with a- party in the
Freemasons’ Hall. There was a huge birth-
day cake with 90 candles, which was cut by
the Mayoress. Besides dancing there was
a bridge party in the basement. The little
daughter of the Rev. E. A. North-Ash pre-
sented Mayoress Bonython. with a lovely
bouquet. Special dances were performed by
Betty Bonython, Joan Kelly and Margaret
Smeaton.
Idle marriage of Linden Wood and Girlie
Lynch was a society event of last week. The
weather was perfect, warm as summer, a
fortunate circumstance, as the bride and her
'maids wore frocks of tulle. The bride was
in a foam of w-liite, and her ’maids, Evelyn
Scarfe and Lesley Hill, frocked alike in
chartreuse green and carrying daffodils, were
spring personified. Captain Grosvenor, a
flying pal of the bridegroom, lent several
’plane propellers to decorate the marquee
at Linden Park, where the wedding tea was
held.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Out in the bush at Mt. Yokine one moon-
less night there appeared a line of colored
lights and a brilliantly illuminated sign-
post directing a winding trail of motors to
the doors of the W. A. Golf Club's new
home, there to celebrate the club’s first
anniversary. The building was garlanded
with anemones, sweet-peas, Iceland poppies
and maidenhair fern, and a canopy of colored
streamers roofed the supper tables. There
was dancing and bridge. His Ex. and Lady
Campion were there. Mrs. Kendall, the
president’s wife, was refreshing in frilled
lettuce-green; Mrs. Eustace Cohen girt her
lissom slimness with black lace and taffeta
trainette; Mrs. P. G. Bennett chose draped
cherry chiffons and Miss P. Brazier
soft blue taffetas inset with pastel flowers.
Bessie Edwards had a brilliant shoulder-
strap holding her tiered delphinium-blue
lace, and her mother, Mrs. Morris Edwards,
was draped in Parisian-cut white. Black
lace was the choice of Mrs. Paxton, Mr".
Norman Temperley, Mrs. Grimwood, Mrs.
Boy Saw and Mrs. Gommc.
Nine young bloods invited 200 of the popu-
lace to make merry at the Y.A.L. ITall at
what proved to be the prettiest and most
colorful dance of the season. The unrelieved
black frock was not to be seen, other than
on the chaperones, and the dance floor pre-
sented a riotous medley of color. The Har-
mony Girls’ Orchestra, dispensing music
from the palm-strewn dais, added a splash
with their scarlet jackets.
Mrs. R. Goyne Miller, pictured here, took
up residence in Perth only a few years ago,
but immedi-
ately became
o mes li e d in
philanthro p i c
and social
m o v e m e nts,
and to-day she
is one of our
busiest work-
ers in good
causes. The
C h i 1 d r e n’s
Hospital
claims her
first attention,
and for this
institution she
acts as ball
committee
secretary. The
Mt. L a w 1 e y
Golf Club en-
t e r t a inment
committee has
elected her
president, and she is an enthusiastic mem-
ber of the Repertory Club, having made
many a successful appearance on the boards
Organising bridge parties for charities is
her long suit.
At five in the afternoon the crowd began
to gather at St. Mary’s Cathedral to wit-
ness the wedding of Hilary Smith and Dr.
Henry Lyon Johnston, and the ushers experi-
enced difficulty in finding pews for the
guests. A couple of seats crashed in under
the unwonted pressure as the bride floated
down, the aisle in classic chiffons, with Mrs.
O Neill, Minnie Johnston and Mignon Renou
bringing up the rear in peach-bloom taffetas
and embroidered silk nets. Pauline and
Mollie Dwyer, in bouffant Period frocks of
pink tulle with rosebud-trimmed leghorn poke
bonnets, carried the train. The cake was
housed in a huge marquee erected on the
lawns of Fairholme, Guildford, where Mrs.
Teresa Smith, in black satin and georgette,
murmured a welcome to the 300 guests, and
Mrs. Lyon Johnson shook a hand in black
satin, with hat of fine black straw. The
groom was supported by Dr. Vincent, Jack
Smith and Dr. Harris.
An exhibition of women’s work, opened
by liis Ex. in the High School Hall, was the
G.F.S. centenary effort, and a notable one
it proved. Connie Miller organised and Miss
Cockburn-Campbell did the secretarial work.
Exhibits, which numbered 8000, came from
all parts of the world and included em-
broidery. painting, carving, rug-making,
china-painting and weaving.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The Midland Hunt Club’s point to point
steeplechase over a six-mile course between
Ross and Campbell Town wound up the
hunting season with a flourish. Mrs. Arthur
Bennett rode Kelvedon into second place,
with Kathleen Mercer, on After Dark, third.
M.F.11. Foster’s horse Pilot, ridden by Eric
Stanley, won the event, and bore off the
silver cup given by T. P. Powell and a
gold hunting horn. Mrs. Bennett collected
two trophies. A great crowd of enthusiasts
gathered in cars and on horseback to watch
the events.
The O’Grady, daughter Margaret and a
big crowd of churchpeople and citizens were
at the laying of the commemoration stone of
the tower and cloisters of St. David’s
Cathedral by Mrs. Snowdon Hay. The
ceremony was impressive, the clergy being
robed. His Ex. gave an address, followed
by one from Bishop Hay.
The Repertory Society’s winter season
of play-readings finished up with Vane’s
‘‘Outward Bound.” produced by the presi-
dent, Wilfrid Hudspeth. The audience filled
the Mayor’s court-room, and the performance
was enjoyable.
The inter-’varsity debates caused a lot of
discussion and amusement. Tassy won on
points, largely owing to the ability of Elinor
Hurst. The O’Grady gave the teams morn-
ing tea at Government House.
Supporters of the Consumptive Sana-
torium helped the Wattle Day stall-holders
with a bridge and mah-jongg party at Had-
ley s. Organised by Mrs. Baxter, most of
the tables were set out in the lounge, some
in the private room at the end of it, and
a few in the drawing-room upstairs, and the
players fed in the dining-room, Margaret
O’Grady was one of the hostesses.
Tom Lyons’s pretty daughter Rhona has
become engaged to Matthew John (Bobs)
Clarke, of the Burma Commission, who has
been on a visit to his people in the Speck.
The wedding will be in the near future. The
bride will be the fourth Tasmanian girl to
lately commence married life in Burma.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.:
P. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office--
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
NOBEL-CLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuss
Detonators
Cartridges
“LET’S CHOOSE EXECUTORS AND TALK OF WILLS”
HAVE YOU CHOSEN YOUR EXECUTOR?
If you have appointed a friend, have you considered that he may die soon after you, and your
estate may pass into the control of someone whom you would never have trusted? That he may
maladmiriister the funds? Or your Estate may suffer losses through his neglect or inexperience?
THESE RISKS CAN BE OVERCOME BY APPOINTING AS YOUR EXECUTOR
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
OF 33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
which offers undoubted Security, combined with Expert Administration.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS NOW UNDER THE COMPANY’S CONTROL EXCEED £36,350,000.
Managing Director: R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
Manager : H. V. DOUGLASS.
Write for Booklet.
“Also.” Blake continued in a pleasant
voice, “he is a very great liar.”
Babaka uttered a short laugh, “true
sah,” he assented gravely. “Avery great
liar indeed.” _____
CHAPTER XIV.
Stephen Blake is Mystified.
Sam Turver lay under a flowering poin-
ciana in front of the ramshackle, tm-roofed
shanty he called his trading station. But
the serene beauty of the tropic morning
touched in him no responsive chord. Sam
Turver was suffering a torturing recovery.
When Goada, dressed in a Mother Hub-
bard that trailed on the ground, warned
him that the district magistrate and his
sergeant of police were in sight, he received
the information with a curse.
He sat up when Blake called his name,
made an attempt to rise, but sank back
groaning. Even Blake, inured to the sight
of human derelicts, was touched. In a
country where the white man is in a
minority of three hundred to one, it is not
good to see a member of one’s own race
wallowing in a pit of his own digging.
Turver stared dully at the magistrate.
“S’pose y’ want to look over the joint,
Mister?” he ventured surlily.
Blake nodded. “Yes, Turver,” he replied.
His lip curled. “You’re in a devil of a
state, man. Why don’t
you take a pull?”
Turver made no
answer. He stood sway-
ing, his hands holding
his aching head, and led
the magistrate into the
store.
Blake gazed round
curiously. Turver was
a trader, yet his store
was practically bare of
saleable merchand is e.
“Trade ain’t too good
just now, Mister,” Tur-
ver hastened to explain.
“The niggers ain’t mak-
ing copra like they use-
ter.”
“Bunkum, Turver!”
Blake replied brusquely.
“There’s a fortune wait-
ing for you at Akupaka
alone if you like to
hustle for it.” He re-
garded the trader search-
ingly, then looked again
at the empty shelves.
“How, exactly, do you
make a living, Turver?
Your entire stock isn’t
worth a fiver.”
Turver’s grubby hand
sought his chin, and he
wetted his lips with his
tongue.
“I pay me lease rent, don’t I?” Turver
protested in an aggrieved voice. “An’ me
boys’ wages? I don’t owe the Gov’ment
nothing, do I?”
Blake laughed. “That is quite all right,
Turver. All I wish to convey, as delicately
as I can, is that there is a Vagrancy Ordin-
ance on the statute book.”
There was no doubt as to the effect of
his words. Turver started. He was seri-
ously perturbed.
“Spare me days, yer ’ot, ain’t yer?” he
whined. He fumbled in the bosom of his
ragged shirt and drew forth what looked
like a bank passbook. The feel of it
seemed to inspire him with confidence.
“ ’Ere y’ are, Mister!” he challenged.
“Think I’m stiff, do yer? ’Ere, take a.
quiz at this!”
“You are a fool, Turver,” Blake declared
as he prepared to go. “A fool to yourself.
One of these fine mornings I’ll be sum-
moned to hold an inquest over you.” He
hesitated a moment. “I wish to God you’d
pull yourself together.”
Sam Turver poured out another drink.
His face expressed unbounded relief.
* * * *
When Blake reached Laubogi the Mertons
were at breakfast. Lesley answered his
hail with a little cry of pleasure. She came
towards him with outstretched hands.
Blake felt his face burning. Gone now
was the memory of the shameful thing he
had done to the girl Loana; gone the
bitterness that had attended the betrayal
of the standards and obligations of his order.
She was worth it, well worth it, this slim,
gracious mistress of Laubogi.
Merton’s voice, cool, imperturbable,
brought him with a run to his senses.
“Morning, Blake! How’s tricks?”
Merton sauntered on to the verandah and
held out a hand. There was something in
his demeanor that affected Blake with an
uncomfortable sense of being unwelcome—
of his visit being inopportune. Merton’s
manner was pleasant enough, and his polite
inquiry as to whether he had breakfasted
quite cordial, but beneath his courtliness
was an air of tenseness, of alertness at
which Blake afterwards wondered.
“I had breakfast at Akupaka, thanks,”
Blake told him. His eyes took in the living-
room, all the dainty “hominess” of it.
“By Jove, Mrs. Merton!” he exclaimed
“forgive me if I am rude, but—this is not
out-back Papua at all!”
Merton looked pleased. Lesley flashed a
quick smile. She was at the breakfast table
now, busy with the coffee-pot. Merton
drew up a chair, and Blake sat down, accept-
ing thankfully the cup Lesley passed to
him.
“I almost invited myself to dinner last
night,” he said with a smile. “But”
“’Ere y’ are, Mister!’ lie challenged. ‘Think I’m stiff, do yer? ’Ere, take a quiz
at this.’”
“Make Laubogi your headquarters when-
ever you’re in the neighborhood, old chap,”
Merton intervened smoothly. “Pass the
word to the other fellows, too, or we shall
be offended.”
There was a forced geniality in his voice,
a lack of sincerity, that Blake could not
help noticing.
“You are both very kind,” he replied
“I—er—we shall be delighted.”
“I’m still waiting to be told why you
did not visit us last night,” Lesley com-
plained.
The two men exchanged swift glances.
Merton smiled in faint amusement. Blake
felt merely uncomfortable. He wondered
what Lesley would , think if she had known
that this was the first time he had ever
set foot in the Laubogi bungalow.
“I plead stress of business,” Blake replied.
“But I shall never offend again. By the
way, Merton,” he continued, “I heard an
extraordinary yarn last night. For a
realistic story of ghosts and hobgoblins it
beats anything I have heard.”
“Indeed?” Merton was leaning back in
his chair, blowing smoke-rings.
“Has anything come to your ears, Mer-
ton,” inquired Blake, “concerning—l know
it sounds silly—concerning the Ghosts of
Akupaka?”
Merton laughed indulgentlv. “Good
heavens, no!” he answered, “Tell Lesley
about ’em. She is making a collection, of
Papuan yarns. The more fantastic they
are, the better she likes ’em. As for me,
I’m past that stage.”
“Please do, Stephen!” Lesley exclaimed,
and turned towards him, her eyes alive
with interest. A tolerant smile played
about her husband’s mouth.
Viewed in the cold light of day, a
flavor of the ridiculous hung about Sabadi’s
“devils in the likeness of men,” and Blake
felt a little foolish as he recounted the
events of the previous night. Lesley, how-
ever, seemed enthralled. Her husband was
frankly bored.
“What do you make of it, Merton?”
asked Blake when he had finished. “You
know the Akupaka people pretty well. If
some of the sorcerers are playing practical
jokes, what on earth is their* object? If
friend Sabadi is simply troubled with a
superabundance of imagination”
“You’ve said it,” Merton cut in with a
shrug. “Deal with the old fool under the
Native Regulations. Give him a month
for spreading lying reports, and I’ll swear
you’ll hear no more of his precious ghosts.
Those old mischief-makers are a danger to
the peace and good order of the villages.”
He rose as though to dismiss the sub-
ject, placing an arm carelessly round his
wife’s shoulders.
“How would you like to come out with
us, Kitten, and watch Blake ‘do his stuff’?
Since sun-up my little lambs have been
thinking up complaints to lay before the
‘big fella Gavamani.’ ”
“I should love it! May I, Stephen?
Would you mind if”——
“Not at all, Mrs. Merton. Come by
all means,” Blake answered.
A bit' thick this, he thought—a bit raw.
If Merton wished to gag his labor, this
business of dragging his wife into the in-
spection was the most effectual means he
could choose. When alone, the native
Papuan is a naturally reserved man; but the
most impudent bush-lawyer, backed even
by the approval of his friends, would shrink
from drawing attention to
himself in the presence of
the sinabada. The most
disorderly malcontent in
the gang would hang back
in an agony of bashfulness
when subjected to the gaze
of a woman with a white
skin. As for those who had
legitimate grievances, they
would be too embarrassed
even to raise their eyes.
Nor would their reserve
be the result of modesty on
their part. The native
Papuan is troubled by no
foolish European notions of
respect, or delicacy or refine-
ment in his relations with
women. This is a subject
upon which he has his own
very definite ideas —and they
are not the ideas of the
white man. Lesley’s hus-
band was a sound psycho-
logist, Blake thought grimly,
to so cunningly trade on
his laborers’ bashfulness, the
dread of becoming conspicu-
ous in the eyes of the Lau-
bogi sinabada. “Thinking
Black” anthropologists called it; but it
was raw—very raw.
Thirty brawny savages lined up in the
compound, squirming uncomfortably under
the magistrate’s scrutiny. Blake’s eye
travelled carelessly down the line, noting
that the men were clean-skinned, obviously
well fed and in good condition.
There was something vaguely familiar in
the appearance of the last man, toe’ recent
link of connection that puzzled Blake.
Where had he seen the fellow? A
strongly-built, thick set man wearing a
He turned to Merton. “You don’t en-
force the nine-o’clock curfew, Merton,” he
remarked. “That fellow in the waistcoat
was at Akupaka last night-long after hours,
I fancy.”
“My boss-boy, old chap,” Merton replied.
“An old hand—been with me for years, and
so I give him a lot of rope. Provided lie
is in quarters by ten or so, I let him rip.’
“But, I say, Hal” Lesley began.
“It doesn’t pay to be too strict with a
man who gives loyal service. You under-
stand that, of course, Blake.”
“Quite,” Blake returned drily. He turned
to Lesley. “You were about to remark,
Mrs. Merton?”
Lesley colored faintly. “Nothing, Stephen.
Nothing at all.” Her brows were knit in
a little pucker of worry, and there was a
bewilderment in her eyes she could not hide.
“I give my boys quite an easy time,
really,” Merton went on. “To me, planting
is a plain business in which a contented
labor force is a most valuable asset. I
do nothing that doesn’t pay.”
“Naturally,” Blake agreed. Why did
Merton continue to labor the point? Was
it fancy that under the flow of his smooth
words lay an undertone of unease? Blake
(Continued on next page.)


A MEDICINE CHEST IN ITSELF/
đ
an thoToW on l *
T he J- ;
\\
a
fov. JfiSfe
E “T^° tiCed e
oi
IS
easily
ti'
D uble
has a l * w * ' a chanc e *
« ouW \Wndto iu s
•f it is aw
but - tatd t 0
o^ xu4iog ti»e
tuattet;
scratch
£f«“*£d t*c»
feet »
that
the
end
disease
tveNV
form*
erly
than
exrs
ted.
to*
_ better
n ° 0 with
treats*; tVve days*
its
ttnent
3S *»••“?.« “^A'.»»
ttestttteti »
lod P eISIS
te warn.
chapP
u&ss
SSS f » i "
baB ds
'e. r
** jTt^\V.°c«
IV
V 6
3
/.
RO4R
iPiAKs
devour
At dll good hotels A
end tobacconists 1
Special box prices on request
Wholesale Distributors
CRAIG &AITKEN
654 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY
again had an impression that his host
wanted to get rid of him, tha,t somehow
he wag in the way.
As for Lesley Merton, she was wondering
why her husband had interrupted her both
times she had started to mention Moragi;
why he had so guilefully led Blake to be-
lieve that the boss-boy had returned to
Laubogi not later than ten o’clock. She
was wondering why Hal had deceived his
best friend over such an unimportant
matter.
* * # *
“I am annoyed with the R.M., Hal,”
Lesley murmured as she refilled Blake’s tea-
cup. “His resolve to go back to the station
to-night is most unneighborly. Persuade
him, dear, to forget his stupid office, and
stay with us for the night.”
“Thank you, Mrs. Merton,” Blake inter-
posed. “I must go.”
“Cannot you possibly work it, Blake?”
pressed Merton. There was no heartiness
in his voice.
“You make me feel horribly churlish,”
Blake laughed. “I simply must get back
to the station. Besides, it would be foolish
not to take advantage of this breeze. Later,
if I may, I shall be delighted to —to —you
quite understand, Mrs. Merton?”
Lesley made a little face. “Of course I
understand; we just want you to realise
that we are very much in earnest; that we
should just love to have you and the other
boys here whenever you are able to come.
I am not lonely, really. I have heaps of
work to keep me occupied, but”—her voice
became wistful—“what is the use of having
friends who rarely visit one, who, when
they come, are in such a desperate hurry
to rush away again?”
Blake stood up. Lesley’s words affected
him uncomfortably. There was no reason
in the world, really, why he should not
stay. He had half a mind to countermand
his instructions to Babaka.
Merton decided, at that moment, to
second his wife’s protest. “Wish you’d
change your mind, old chap,” he drawled.
“Awful rot—rushing away like this.”
His genial words belied an expression in
his eyes he was wholly unable to conceal.
Blake was certain now that Merton wanted
him to go. He shook his head, smiling.
“Your garden is making a wonderful show,
Mrs. Merton,” he said, as he moved towards
the verandah steps. “I must send you some
cuttings from the station. We have some
really choice crotons; also a caladium from
the Fly River country that, I believe, is
unique. I must”
He caught himself up abruptly. There
came a strident, ear-splitting screech—
harsh, grating—like the grinding of car
brakes'heard from a distance.
“Oh!” Lesley exclaimed in a tremulous
whisper. “Oh, look! The wonderful,
beautiful thing!”
Like a radiant meteor it was as it flashed
before their fascinated eyes, wide-flung
plumes shimmering like burnished gold, each
silk-like feather quivering; outstretched
, neck gorgeously ruffed in emerald-green and
golden-yellow, wire-like shafts extended—
the most magnificent of all flying creatures,
the, fabled, divinely-fed, enchanted bird of
the ancients, the bird-of-paradise of New
•Guinea.
For a minute, two minutes, it displayed
itself in the branches of a flowering flame-
tree, plumes hanging down, glowing like
liquid gold, ruff stretched out, pinions ex-
tended—a pulsing, breathing dream in
magic colors, exquisitely, inexpressibly
beautiful.
Then, uttering its incongruous shriek, it
wheeled from its perch and disappeared
into the jungle.
“A straggler from the mountains,” Blake
said.
Lesley drew a deep breath.
“To think,” she said in a tense whisper,
“that such superb creatures should be shot
down—l shall never, never flaunt their
wonderful plumes.”
Blake stared at her.
“I should jolly well think not!” he
laughed. “Unless you wish to come into
violent collision with the law.”
“But, Stephen”
“They are not uncommon hereabouts,
Blake,” _ Merton interposed. “And in the
mountains, of course, they are as plentiful
as crows.”
His voice was bland, level; but the
fingers that held his cigarette shook ever so
slightly.
* * * *
The whaleboat was skimming along at a
clip that would take her to her anchorage
within two hours. Blake locked a bulky
package of letters in his despatch box. They
had been handed to him by Lesley for
despatch to Port Moresby if an opportunitv
occurred before the departure of the regular
monthly mail. They were addressed to
Lesley’s ■ brother.
Blake made himself comfortable on the
starboard bench and filled his pipe. Soon
he was engrossed in thought. Suddenly he
sat up with a jerk.
“Well,” he said softly, “I’ll be damned!”
“Yessah!” agreed Sergeant Babaka ami-
ably.
Blake took the tiller from him, and
swinging it hard over, ran the whaler in-
shore.
“Take off your uniform, Sergeant,” he
said, “and swim for it. To-night and for
as many nights as may be necessary you
will stay at Akupaka, remaining by day in
the house of Sabadi and by night wherever
seems good to you. Let no man know of
your presence in the village, save only
Sabadi and the people of his house. Savee?”
“Yessah.”
“When you return to the station, Ser-
geant, you will tell me everything that is to
be told concerning those damned spooks.”
Into Sergeant Babaka’s eyes came a sud-
den comprehending gleam.
“Is it understood, Sergeant?”
“It is understood, Taubada,” he answered
gravely.
He slipped over the side, and soon he
was wading ashore. Blake watched him run
over the strip of sandy beach and dis-
appear into the undergrowth.
Blake headed the whaleboat for the
station.
The short tropic twilight was beginning
to flush the western sky when the whaler
slipped alongside the Government jetty.
Blake stepped ashore. For a moment he
stood facing the languishing brilliance of
the djdng day.
“I wonder,” he muttered softly—“l
wonder if I have been opening my mouth
too widely!”
* # * *
Lesley Merton was restless. She heard
the clock strike ten, then eleven, then twelve
and still sleep eluded her. Presently she
gave up the attempt', and slipping out of
bed, moved cautiously towards her ward-
robe. She took out a parcel wrapped in
clean tapa cloth, a bulky parcel that gave
off a faint odor of mothballs.
The moon was high, and she needed no
other light as she made her way to the
kitchen. She kindled a fire in the stove
and soon the pungent, overpowering odor of
burning feathers was heavy on the still
night air.
She heard a startled gasp from her hus-
band’s bed as she scrambled again under
her mosquito curtain. He half leapt from
the bed.
“Good God, Les!” he cried. “Wake up,
girl, there’s a fire somewhere in the house.”
(To be continued next week.)
The Vineyard.
I am as one who gathers
Grapes in a vineyard dim,
Ripe clusters or but green ones
As they are touched by him.
My fancies, though unmellowed,
Sometimes so rich appear—
My vineyard in the world’s light
Is such a shadow here.
Yet ’tis but mine to enter,
And mine to leave at will;
The dreams I have are the grapes that
Are growing still—
The grapes as those of Faerie
A dreamer culls until
The light of life has left him,
As the light will.
N.S.W.
R. CRAWFORD.
Salome.
I.
The azure ceiling high above
Murmurs with love-calls of the dove.
The ranked Egyptian columns tall,
Down the sad, red-lipp.ed monarch’s hall,
Are smooth as bodies of pale trees
I’ve often clasped with hands and knees,
Leaning against them in the spring
To hear their voiceless sap-heart sing
(Oh, they are brother-dear to me!
How should a girl not love a tree
When earth draws sun, as woman man,
Warm from Beersheba unto Dan?).
11.
The tiny, tripping, spotted deer
Between the columns stand and peer
With shy, gold eyes. From violet wreaths
A Gallilean perfume breathes.
It is the spring! I have undone
My curious brooches, every one
(Marked each with Egypt’s virgin-sign,
The twice-barred sistrum ; but divine
No longer). Oh, the paschal moon
Will rise on sacrifices soon!
On offered lips and offered sheep,
While women’s hearts and altars weep
Hot tears of blood, salt tears of love,
For Life and Death re-flower the grove.
111.
The petals of my garments fall,
Leaving me lily-naked all.
This is the hour when the furl&d flower
Breaks from its green—an ivory, tower; '
The climax-moment—circle’s height
Of earth’s wheel turning towards delight.
I triumph, for I blossom here
’Twixt tree-like marble pier and pier.
There are crushed herbs beneath my tread;
The azure ceiling is o’erhead—
Oh, and the eyes that watch me move!
Red as the lion-light of love!
IV.
The cymbals meet, the rattles shake.
Like a black, live, head-downward snake,
My coil of hair hangs to my heel.
Lads grovel, and the captains kneel.
Ah, now I know that blood must flow—
In a dark, spreading lakelet glow!
The clash of brass has scared the deer—
Ah, swordsman, draw the sword of fear!
V.
Make gape the lips that will not plead!
Glaze eyes that show no lion-need!
Now red, thick red, to wet my feet—
Earth’s climax-moment is complete!
And if, like one who climbs a stair,
A quitting spirit sighs in air,
Seeking the spring beyond our spring.
Opening a timeless, cage-free wing,
’Twas Life, my mother, bade me dance
Under enthroned Death’s sated glance,
And this stark head —on gold to lie—
Has won its triumph-height—as I!
N.S.W.
DULCIE DEAMER.


5 m **l
fi»u*
How
BEGIN 7
www'"'"""* 4
\jyaajjSjSf'
u
' M
\ f. \
u
r
YOU may remember the first sore-
ness and pain—or recall some
simple wound or bruise, or scratch-
ing the itchy skin until it bled. Or,
maybe there’s an actual breakdown
of the fleshy tissues.
Zam-Buk is a wonderful healer
for bad legs of all kinds. It stops
the hot pain and irritation and
quickly draws out all pus and disease.
Helping Nature build-up the new
tissue-cells Zam-Buk soon makes
weak and crippled limbs strong
and healthy again.
Keep Zam-Buk always handy fcr cuts,
burns, scalds, eczema, ulcers, acne,
poisoned wounds, ringworm, sprains,
scalp disease, piles, etc. 1/6 A 3/6 box.
d
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — .think of
ď
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
The Improved
BISSELL
Sweeper
with ‘Hi-Lo’ Brush Control
Sweeps Linoleum , heaviest
carpet, any surface, easier!
đ
Hi-Lo Brush Control (automatic) *1
is applied to all “Cyco” mod- I
els , at the same popular prices. J
r PHIS amazing improvement
- L turns less effort into greater
sweeping power. Think of it
twice as much brush ac-
tion or range, less than half
the effort.' Truly, now, an all-around
“broom -on - wheels” with its own
long-handled dust pans. There is no
other sweeper like it —no other
sweeper in which the brush itself has
up-and-down action, independent of
the sweeper body. You should enjoy
its benefits. Leading merchants sell
them. Booklet upon request.
BISSELL CARPET SWEEPER CO.
Grand Rapids, Michigan, U. S. A.
Export Dept., 46 West Broadway,
New York, N.Y.
Oldest and Largest Sweeper Makers
POSITIVE PATCHING
xmswm
m
*Stt3 :
m
m
TFI
I«a
boVam<>
IKM
gp»
£&3
Try the new tube repair method
with patent Roller-Roughener
and you’ll never bother with
any other -not evert vulcan-
izing. Makes positive and
permanent Patches
of any size.
IT’S A RED
DIAMOND
PRODUCT
\
ry )
'on sale
AT ALL
GARAGES
BULL-DOC CMP
9d. 1/- 2/3 3/9 4/3 and 6/6
THE ONLY COMPLETE TUBE REPAIR OUTFIT
soK
Ih°
Britain’s
Motor
Masterpiece
In Mayfair and the Shires, across the plains ot
India and the desert tracks of Iraq, in the sun-
shine of Australia, or on the African veldt—
everywhere where cars are used you will find
the Sunbeam.
Not only in mechanical efficiency but also in
coachwork of fine appearance and luxurious
comfort, Sunbeam leads the way.
Its high road speed, ease of control, security
of braking and stability under all conditions
ensure a performance of exceptionally high
standard.
The coachwoik combines unusual beauty of line
with roomy accommodation.
Sunbeam cars for the Australian market are
specially built with the necessary ground clear-
ance, springing and cooling to ensure perfect
performance on the roughest roads and tracks
and in the most tropical heat.
Complete catalogue will be sent on application
to our Australian agents, or direct to our Export
Department.
AUTHORISED DISTRIBUTORS.
THE ALL BRITISH MOTOR CO. PTY., LTD., 111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
MESSRS. WILLIAMS, HILL & CAMERON, LTD., 91-97 Flinders Street, Sydney.
MESSRS. ARTHUR BALES, LTD., 367-371 Murray Street, Perth.
RASCH MOTORS, LTD., 69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.
EXPORT DEPARTMENT:
12 Princes Street, Hanover Square, London, W.l, England.
Cables: Head Office and Works:
“Subeamoco,” London. Wolverhampton, England.
Agents for Egypt: MIDDLE EAST MOTOR AGENCY, 3 Kon-Elo Dick, Alexandria.
Glifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
An Ideal Winter Home —The Most Sheltered Spot on the Harbor, with Private Beach and
Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service. Spacious Grounds
and Garage Accommodation.
Winter Tariff from 4| guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines).
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
W. JNO. BAKER
150 —W. JNO. BAKER STATION or FARMER’S
KNIFE. The Standard favorite of the Aus-
tralian Bush, 4in. Stag Haft, as illustration,
Price, 13/6 each. Post free.
uiiixpii
185—BAKER’S FIVE; specially designed for
use among stock; 5 Blades, Finest Quality
and Finish; Stag Haft. Small size 31in., 17/6.
Large size, 4in. Haft, 19/6 each. Post free.
0
060—MOTORIST’S KNIFE, 4|in. Metal Haft.
Contains Spear Blade, Pen Blade, Screwdriver,
Crown Bottle Opener, Tin Opener, 1 Tester,
File, Screw Wrench, Corkscrew, Leather Gauge,
Gimlet and Shackle, 19/6 each. Post free.
Post free for cash with order.
W. JNO. BAKER,
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Australia and the British
Commonwealth
By the Hon. J. G. LATHAM,
K.C., M.A., LL.B., Attorney-
General of the Commonwealth of
Australia. [October.
The Sovereignty of the British
Dominions
By A. BERRIEDALE KEITH,
D.C.L., D.Litt., Regius Professor
of Sanskrit and Comparative
Philology in the University of
Edinburgh. About 18s. net.
[lmmediately.
CANON STREETER’S NEW WORK.
The Primitive Church
Studied with special reference
to the origins of the Christian
Ministry. By Canon BURNETT
H. STREETER, author of “The
Four Gospels: a Study in
Origins,” “Reality,” etc. Bs. 6d.
net.
The Times: “He makes his own survey of
the evidence and defends his own conclusions:
and this freedom of judgment, combined with
a keen sense of the human and personal factors
in Church history, is what gives his book its
freshness.”
NEW NOVELS
Ready Immediately.
Hans Frost
A Novel. By HUGH WALPOLE.
Whiteoaks
[Dominions Edition.
A sequel to “Jalna. By MAZO
DE LA ROCHE, author of
“Possession,” "Delight,” etc.
[Empire Library.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.


Legal Notice*.,
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
1 SOUTH WALES:
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1002 of 1929.
BETWEEN FRIEDA JOSEPHINE
HOPPNER Petitioner and ALBERT
CARL HOPPNER Respondent.
To ALBERT CARL HOPPNER late of
Mount Victoria.
TAKE NOTICE that the said FRIEDA
JOSEPHINE HOPPNER has commenced a
suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on
the grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards AND
'TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at
the proper office of this Honorable Court on
or before the second day of December next
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time
the Petitioner will proceed and the suit be
heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing.
A copy of the Petition filed herein may
be had on application to the undersigned
solicitor free of charge.
DATED this 3rd day of September One
thousand nine hundred and twenty-nine.
For the Registrar,
C. K. BODY
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
C. P. Dignam, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
TO THOMAS ARTHUR LINFORD
SPRING of 126 Clarendon Street East
Melbourne in the State of Victoria
Bicycle Repairer.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation bearing
date the 31st day of July 1929 has been
issued in the Supreme Court of South Aus-
tralia citing you to appear and answer the
Petition of Myrtle Spring of 94 Prospect
Road Prospect in the State of South Aus-
tralia married woman praying for a dissolu-
tion of her marriage with you on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse for
five years and upwards AND FURTHER
TAKE NOTICE that you are within twenty-
one days after this publication to attend
in person or by your solicitor at the office
of the Master Supreme Court House Vic-
toria Square Adelaide and there to enter
an appearance in the suit. In default of
your so doing you will not be allowed to
address the Court and the Court will pro-
ceed to hear the said Petition proved and
pronounce judgment in respect thereto in
your absence.
DATED the 15th day of August 1929.
W. S. STUART,
Master.
Charles Arthur Sandery, Government
Buildings, King William Street, Adelaide,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
Experimenting
How much a year do
you waste in unneces-
sary Experiments?
Cut Waste and
Advertise with a
“Result-Bringer”
Che telegraph
BRISBANE
Has proved itself for
over 57 years a good
“ Result-B ringer ’ ’ for
all Advertisers.
Cbe Celegrapb
newspaper go. EM.
Queen & Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane.
Missing Friends,
TONES, JAMES SYDNEY, eldest son of
J late J. C. Jones, Mt. Keira, please com-
municate J. W. RUSSELL, Solicitor, Wol-
longong. Information his benefit.
( sf HAIR
<o » a °
here's
d
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
StPOMwis (.MEXICAN)
Ukdnut Sioubn.
♦-REMOVES THE GREY"*
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (4/6), 6d. being postage.
fjl
THE PATRIOT
|D[RECT^EDjy^gWOMEN^
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HTNCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE - - - - - 3d.
It deals r ith every subject of
interest to women.
(CZSI
I
7
r
Happy Memories
charming fun-filled
that Hilda
Cowham has designed for
Shelleys makes children’s
mealtimes merry: not a baby
but will laugh at it! And
when the children of to-day
recall the jolly breakfasts
and tea-times in the old nur-
sery, mug and milk jug, plate
and saucer each with a joke
in it will not be least among
their happy memories.
TO SEE THE LATEST
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets*
Morning Sets
Dainty White
• China
Nursery Ware
iy Lucie Attweu
fcHILDA Cowham
Domestic Ware
Jelly Moulds
aSI.CLAIUMCI *T.
BH
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
The Union Bank of Australia, Limited.
BALANCE SHEET, 28th FEBRUARY, 1929.
LIABILITIES.;
£ s. d.
Capital Authorised 12,000,000 0 0
39,731,129 2 7
£48,967,465 11 9
ASSETS.
£ s. d.
Specie on hand and Cash Balances.. 6,300,460 15 2
Bullion and Advances on Bullion .. 72,682 19 2
Money at Call and Short Notice in
London . . . . .. .. 1,060,000 0 0
Investments—
On account of Reserve Fund:
British Govern-
ment Securities. £1,000,000 0 0
Other Investments:—
British Govern-
ment and Aus-
tralian Govern-
ment Securities. 1,223,198 11 10
2,223,198 11 10
Balance of Remittances and Drafts
in transit and Bills Receivable
at London Office .. . . .. 8,470,947 10 8
£18,127,289 16 10
Bills Discounted, Loans and other
Securities at the Branches and
in London 30,454,430 11 11
Bank Premises in Australia and
New Zealand .. .. .. 286,600 0 0
London Leasehold
Premises .. £142,304 19 4
Reserves against
same and accrued
Interest .. 43,159 10 4
- 99,145 3 0
£48,967,465 11 9
STATEMENT OF PROFITS.
Balance of Undivided Profits on 29th February, 1928
Less: Dividend, July, 1928 .. ..
London,
Leaving' a balance of ..
Profits of the past Year, after making provision in respect of Bad
and Doubtful Debts, and other Contingencies . ~ .. £1,53G,950
Less:
Salaries and Allowances to the Australian
and New Zealand Staff .. .. .. £503,640 3 2
General Expenses in Australia and New
Zealand—including Kent, Taxes,
Stationery, etc. .. 289,164 19 S
Remuneration to the Board of Directors
and Auditors, Salaries of London Office
Staff, Rent, Taxes, Stationery and General
Expenses 69,758 14 7
Income Tax 62,454 3 6
925,018
Less: Interim Dividend, January, 1929
Deduct: Transfer to Provision for New Buildings
Balance of Undivided Profits at this date
9th July, 1929.
.. £399,404 3 : 7
.. 300,000 0 0
£99,404 3 7
11
611,932 5 7
£711,336 9 2
300,000 0 0
£411,336 9 2
25,000 0 0
.. £386,336 9 2
W. A. LAING, Manager.
S. F. GARDNER, Accountant.
E. W. PARKER 1
HUGH FLOWER [•
FRED. G. PARBURYJ
Directors.
Auditors’ Certificate and Report.
In accordance with the provisions of Section 113 of the Companies (Consolidation) Act 1908 we
report to the Shareholders as follows?
We have examined the above Balance Sheet with the books at Head Office and have had access to
the Branch Accounts transmitted to the Head Office from Australia and New Zealand. We have verified
the correctness of the Cash, Money at Call and Short Notice, Investments, and the Bills of Exchange held
in London, and having obtained all the information and explanations we have required, we are of opinion
that such Balance Sheet is properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the
Company’s affairs according to the best of our information and the explanations given to us and as shown
by the books of the Company and the said Branch Accounts.
London, 9th July, 1929. WHINNEY, SMITH & WIIINNEY, Auditors.
AUSTRALASIAN ESTABLISHMENT:
General Manager for Australasia, W. A. LEITCH, Esq.
Head Office in Australia, Melbourne.
Manager at Sydney (Corner Pitt and Hunter Streets), G. V. OLDHAM, Esq.
Don’t Let
“NERVES”
Get You!
Keep Your Grip on Health ,
Strength and Forceful Vigour
by taking Cream of Yeast !
MIDNIGHT ! Something creaks the
worried business man, about to retire,
starts nervously. “CREAK 1” again....
“They’re after those papers! ” he gasps as,
more seared than he would admit, he points a
shaking, pistol ....
Only the cat! Just another case of “nerves,” but
he’ll be fit for nothing to-morrow. “Nerves” start
that way. A jumpy feeling; restlessness; a rapid
puffing at innumerable cigarettes. Soon, work will
suffer; then stop. Nervous breakdown comes that
way. The remedy is Cream of Yeast. It calms
the nerves and keeps them calm. Gives strength.
Stops headaches, nerve pains, colds, stomach upset,
ď
Posed by
Edmund Lowe,
famous "Fox” Star,
restless irritability and depression. Quickly. Surely.
Safely. Makes you feel better and brighter in a few
minutes. Try it! Three sizes; all chemists, 1/11,
3/C and 5/9. Don’t let “nerves” get you—
Get Cream of Yeast Instead!
Amalgamated Laboratories, Building, Sydney, and all Iligli-class Chemists.
LIFE INSURANCE IS A NECESSITY!
It protects your dependants.
It provides for your old age.
It is a- profitable investment.
It prevents sacrifice of property by
providing funds for probate duties.
To place your Life Assurance
to the best advantage
INSURE WITH
A.M.P. SOCIETY
Assets - - - £73,776,000.
Large Annual Bonuses.
INQUIRIES INVITED.
F. T. BRIDGES, Acting General Manager.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.


After
Smoking!
It is always
good to take the
"Alienburys” Gly-
cerine and Black
Currant Pastilles.
They sooth an irri-
tated throat and relieve
drynese of the mouth.
‘Allenbunys’
Glycerine <? oft QTTT T F
Block Currant HAw I
VICHY
n
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government,
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled —Insist on Celestms.
Obtainable Everywhere .
Sole Australian Agent;
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney,
GOES
>
7k GOVT TOURIST BORtAU
QlltNS WALK- MELBOURNE
cb MAPTUJ, PLACE' STDWfY
Win GLADLY ARRANGE ALT DETAILS
The Phisolophers.
J. H. M. ABBOTT
tells of the last shit load of convicts
THAT CAME INTO SYDNEY HAHBOR.
ON a June afternoon in the year 1849,
Mr. Timothy Aigles, of llarrington-
street, Sydney, took a walk round the
Cove, with the intention of beholding for
himself the vessel whose arrival in Port
Jaekson at the beginning of the week had
aroused such a storm of protest on the part
of the inhabitants of New South Wales. It
was Sunday, and many others of the citi-
zens of Sydney had gathered below the grey
bastions of Fort Macquarie, actuated by the
same impulse of curiosity as had lured Mr.
Aigles from his comfortable fireside into the
chill sunlight that only accentuated the bit-
ing coldness of the keen and searching wind
blowing over Flagstaff Hill from the west.
The ship Hashemy lay at anchor oft' Bone-
long Point, just inside the mouth of the
Cove, and at first sight there did not seem
to be anything about her in particular to
arouse the interest of the curious and specu-
lative concourse that remained watching her
all day long, save in one respect —her obvi-
ously complete isolation from the shore. There
were many people on her decks, who strolled
up and down the waist of the ship in a
somewhat aimless fashion, and the red
jackets of two military sentries—one at the
break of the poop, the other at the fo’c’s’le-
head —gave her a distinction that was not
shared by other shipping in the harbor. Also,
a whaleboat, carrying half a dozen armed
soldiers, with a sergeant in charge of them,
lay off her at a little distance —sometimes
to port and sometimes to starboard—and
warned away watermen and other parties
in boats who showed a disposition to
approach her. To any casual stranger
arriving on the waterfront that afternoon,
it would have appeared as though the ship
were in quarantine, and were being kept in
rigid isolation by the port authority on
account of some outbreak of sickness or
plague that had afflicted her in the latter
part of her voyage to New South Wales.
Her sides were weather-beaten and sea-
stained, but the tautness of her rigging and
a certain air of semi-official smartness in
her general appearance gave an impression
that, whatever might be the matter with her,
she was still competently conducted by an
efficient and seaman-like ship’s company.
There was nothing slack in her appearance.
At) the extremity of the point Mr. Aigles
found a sort of public meeting in progress,
and paused to listen to a raucous individual
who, his back to the curtain of the fort,
was vigorously haranguing the narrow crowd
perched upon the rocks at the water’s edge.
Avery vehement person lie was, who con-
tinually smashed his right fist into the palm
of his left- hand, and punctuated his periods
with angry bursts of wrathfulness. He
stood on the head of a little cask whose
limitations obliged him to be careful of his
balance, and to exercise a bodily restraint,
that was not observable in his loud voice
and angry language.
“Cornstalks!” he shouted—and his voice
might almost have carried across the water,
against the wind, to the Hashemy’s upper-
deck. “You! You call yourselves Corn-
stalks, and allow that d—d ship over there
to float where she is, defiling our beautiful
harbor, making the air of Sydney stink,
defying the will of -the people. She ought
to be scuttled and sunk. Who the hell’s
Lord Grey to send his gaol-birds here? Let
him keep his lags in England, where they
belong! We don’t want ’em—we won’t
have ’em! If ’twas ME in Charlie Cowper’s
place, I’d have ’em taken out to sea through
the Heads in their precious ship, and told
to put as much water between the Hashemy
and this country as they could do in a
day and a night—else I’d sink ’em and
drownd ’em. That’s what they w r ant —them
riff-raff. Give ’em a bath —they needs it.
That’s all that’d do ’em any good. Take
’em outside an’ sink ’em! Wo don’t want
’em here —and. my friends, we iron'! hare
'em! To Hell with the English Government
that dares to flout us like this! To Hell
with ’em, I say!”
As the orator paused for breath and stood
leaning forward to glare at the fringe of
listeners between himself and the white-
capped waters of the windy harbor, Mr.
Aigles felt his elbow squeezed, and turned
round to find himself greeted by a. stout and
florid gentleman in a heavy overcoat and
stove-pipe hat who accosted him familiarly.
“Hello, Timrao!” said this person genially,
but with a note of disgust in his tone. “Don’t
let’s stop and listem to this dam’ fool. Let’s
get home —home to my place, I mean —and
rake something to keep the cold out. I
declare this infernal wind’d cut a man in
two! I’m chilled to th’ marrer.”
Mr. Aigles recognised his old friend Teddy
Martin, landlord of the Natives’ Arms in
lower George-street, and immediately ac-
quiesced in that gentleman's hospitable sug-
gestion.
"Oh. Teddy,” he said, “I’m with you.
'Twill save a man’s life.”
Sunday closing not being bigotedly ob-
served in the Sydney of the 'forties, they found
the tap-room of the Natives’ Arms occupied
by a goodly company, mostly tradesmen of
the neighborhood, of the class which Most
Martin welcomed most readily within his
tavern. A bright fire blazed in the big
brick fireplace, and the room was warm and
cheerful after the chilliness of the westerly
wind that scoured the empty streets outside.
Recognising that the room was wholly
occupied by friends and customers well-
known to him, and mostly his neighbors,
the genial landlord called upon the company
to “have one on the house,” and bade them
give their orders to the barman.
“Come up to the fire, Timothy, and warm
your bones. A drop of rum-hot, with cloves
— that’ll keep tli’ chill out. Call for your
fancy, gentlemen all. ’Tis my shout.”
Standing with his back to the big fire-
place, his tumbler in his hand, Mr. Martin
presently addressed the company. It was
obvious that he had something on his mind
that he was anxious to share with others.
“Tim an’ me,” he told them, “we’ve been
down at th’ Fort a-listenin' to that herrin’-
gutted fool Jonathan Cross roarin’ an’ bel-
lerin’ fit to bust hisself. That man must
talk, or he’d explode. All worked up he is,
an’ a-laying down th’ law as if he was th’
King of Australia. And what about, d'ye
think? Why, because o’ them poor devils
aboard th’ ship Ilashemy, who ought, to be
gettin’ a warm welcome, to my way o’ think-
in’, instead o’ th’ howlin’ an’ yappin’ of a
lot o’ selfish daw'gs that don't know what
they’re a-barkin about. Give me a pain in me
stummick, that man did, with his infernal
nonsense about a free, country _ and tlr
wickedness o’ briugin’ labor into it. Dam’
rot. Th’ very thing th’ country’s cryin' out
for, both in ‘town and countryAn’ here
we are a-turnin’ back a fair gift of wliat
we’re most in need of. What’s th good
o’ goin’ on th’ like o’ that, I ask ye’.
Where’d th’ most of us in this room be
now if our parents had been treated like
them fellies on th’ Hashemy is? Tell me
that? Why,” looking round the company,
“I don’t believe there’s more'n two of the
company here present whose fathers—aye,
an’ mothers, too, some of ’em—wasn't old
hands, and come to this country like these
coves aboard the Hashemy has come, to be
give a noo c-harnst in life. Damme if 1
do! You, Tom Mielclem —what did they
send your old man here for?”
“Poachin’ it was, Teddy, as Ive heard
the ole feller tell many’s the time.”
“Huh, and him one o’ th’ best old hands
on th’ Oxbro! The country that’d turned
old Bill Mieklem back, it’d lost one o’ th’
best men’s ever lived in it. My old man
was sent out for burgl’ry, a dam’ sight
worse’n poachin’ —and am I any th worse
for that, or w r as he a bad covey? There was
hundreds lost their truest friend when he
snuffed out—an’ well they knew it.”
“Well, what’s th’ stren’tli o’ this ’ere
’Ashemy, Teddy?” asked one of his audience,
a little sharp-faced man with a squint,
“Is they a hextra-bad lot, or what? What's
agin ’em that all th’ fuss is abart?”
“Nothfnk. There ain’t nothink agin ’em,
Peter Mott. They’re jest pore, plain people
what’s been unfort’nate —same as anyone
might be. No doubt they’ve broke th’ law ;
but ain’t we a-breakin’ th’ law now’, a-dri.uk-
in’ of a Sunday? Why, I’ll lay there’s
as good coves on that there ship as there is
in this room. An’ for why should w 7 e be
denied th’ right to go ashore in London
town, s’posin’ we was to find ourselves
aboard a ship in London River? We’re ah
Englishmen, ain’t we? Bond an’ free. Some
gets found out—and some don’t. That don t
make us any the less British, does it? No.
Ten thousand times, no. Crool 'ard treat-
ment I calls it—unfair and unjust. Now, then,
I’ll put it to th’ meetin’ : Them that’s in favor
o’ permittin’ the unfort’nate pris’ners aboard
th’ ship Hashemy to como ashore an’ enter
assigned service, accordin’ to th’ laws o’
this country, to be faithfully observed by
them, hold up their hands. Ah —I thought
so. I knowed I was among men o’ sense
an’ reason, an’ wasn’t a-wastin’ me breath
on a pack o’ dam’ fools, such as them as
is heatin’ th’ wind to-day dowm at Fort Mac-
quarie. Now 7 I’ll call upon me very good
friend, Mr. Timothy Aigles, corn and pro-
dooce merchant, whom you all know well,
to say a few words in support o’ what I’ve
bin a-sayin’. Come on, Tim —let’s hear
what you think.”
Mr. Aigles rose to his feet from the bench
before the fire where, he had been sipping
his rum-hot. He was a nervous man, and
had not the assurance and hearty manner
of Mr. Martin. He cleared his throat a
couple of times before he found words.
“Gentlemen,” lie said, “1 am in entire
accord with what our friend Ted Martin
has just thought good to tell us. _ It. is noth-
ing but gross unfairnessI—wicked 1 —wicked inhumanity.
I call it—to deny the people on the Hashemy
the right to land in Sydney and settle down
in New South Wales when they shall have
satisfied the laws which they have broken
—no doubt, in many cases, through dire
want and necessity. As he says, where
would most of us have been if our fathers
had been denied such an asylum as is
afforded by this country? We should oppose
this outrage in every way we can. I beg
to propose that Mr. Eldward Martin be
called upon to draw up a petition to be pre-
sented to his Excellency Sir Charles Augustus
Fitzroy, praying that the decencies of civili-
sation be extended to the unfortunate people
in the ship Hashemy, and that they be not
turned from our doors as outcasts and
pariahs. Further, that Mr. Edward Martin
be appointed as secretary to a body to be
constituted from the persons present in this
room who will pledge themselves to do all
in their power to checkmate such a breach
of true Australian hospitality as seems to
be contemplated by the authorities. That
is all, gentlemen, that I have to say.”
“Hear, hear!” cried Mr. Peter Mott,
enthusiastically. “Now, then, Teddy what
abart it? Let’s ’ear wot’s to be did in the
matter.”
Mr. Martin beamed genially upon his
friends and supporters. “Another round,
Benjamin,’’ he called to the barman. “Gentle-
men, you honor me. We’ll take an' con-
stitoot this ’ere society for the upliftin'
o’ th’ downtrodden and th’ vindicitation of
Australian hospitality. Thank Gawd, there’s
some amongst us as can look at such -a
question "like phisolophers. Ha,” he ex-
claimed, catching at the word he had mispro-
nounced —“phisolophers, that’s what we are,
coves as can look at both sides of a ques-
tion fair an’ square. Now, to-day’s Sunday.
I’ll call a meetin’ ’ere for to-morrow night
of those as is here present, together with as
many friends and sympathisers with our
objects as each of ye can find, when I'll lay
before ye a rough draft of the constitootion
o’ the Society of Phisolophers. Now, then,
gentlemen, I give ye a toast. Charge y r
glasses an’ y’r tankards. Now, then. The
Phisolophers o’ New South Wales!”
“The Phisolophers!” shouted the company
in chorus, rising to its feet.
* # ❖ *
“Well, Mr. Cowper,” said his Excellency
Sir Charles Fitzroy as he accompanied the
Colonial Secretary to the door of Government
House—it was the new building, in the
Domain, which has been the Sydney vice-regal
residence since 1845, not the old home of
Phillip and Macquarie—“so that’s settled,
eh? And deuced glad am I that it is set-
tled. Of course, his Lordship won’t like to
have his pet scheme rejected, but we can t
help that—what? After all, as you say.
the Colonies arc entitled to have a voice in
the matter, and if the people are so over-
whelmingly against the resumption of trans-
portation as you assure me they are—well,
we must take their view into consideration.
No denying it—what? So we’ll send the
1 lashemy on to Moreton Bay and see if we
can dispose of her passengers up there, and
I’ll tell the Colonial Office, in my next
despatch, that the thing can't be done. That s
the ticket, eh? Quite so —quite so, my dear
Mr. Cowper. Oh, by-the-way, there’s a depu-
tation coming to see me this afternoon about
the business —they’re due about now, I
think. The Philosophers of New South
Wales, they style themselves. What time
is it? Three o’clock! Yes—well, if you
should meet ’em at the gate as you go out.
you might tell ’em from me I can’t see cm.
Matter settled, and so forth. Splendid ! Glad
to be spared the infliction. Deputations
most infernally boring experiences I’m called
upon to endure. Delighted to escape this one.
Just a moment —before you go. I was telling
you about this innkeeper’s daughter at Mait-
land. Glorious creature —splendid! Ton
my soul. Cowper, a man may Iro Governor-
General, and so forth, you know—but he s
still a man. Well, the lovely creature—a
stunning wench, by gad—she iooked a little
coy at first, but”
“Another time, your Excellency, pray—
another time. I must hurry off and attend to
this business. The state of public feeling,
you know. Very strong—very impatient 1
must send orders to the master of the Has-
liemy at once. Pray be so good as to excuse
me. Sir Charles. Another time. I have the
honor to wish you good afternoon.”
And Mr. Charles Cowper bowed himself
out through the front door, being in no mood
to listen to the details of one of his Excel
lency’s by no means infrequent amatory
exploits.
“Disgusting libertine!” muttered Mr.
Cowper as he hurried along the drive
towards the guard-house.
“D —and old prude!” grinned the Gov
ernor as he turned indoors. “But a good
fellow —saves one a deuce of a lot of bother
with these tiresome colonials. Gad —how
seriously they take themselves, to be sure!"
When Mr. Cowper came to the guard-
house —the neat little building that was
moved back a few years ago when Mac-
quarie-street was widened—he was astounded
to find the guard under arms and a fierce
riot in progress outside the big iron gates.
He halted in amazement, and the sergeant
of the guard came hurrying over to him.
“Looks hugly, sir!” said the n.c.0., salut-
ing. “Shall I drive ’em off, Mr. Cowper?
They’ve been at it this ten minutes past —
stones an’ fists. But I can soon clear ’em
out, sir, an’ set ’em on th’ run. I’ve sent
for th’ peelers —th’ constables, I mean, y’r
Honor. But they’re slow a-comin’, an’ this
shindy ain’t what’s right—’ere at th’ gate
itself! Say th' word, Mr. Cowper, an' well
move ’em on.”
“Good Heavens! Why, what’s the matter.
Sergeant? What’s the reason for this? Who
are these people?”
“Them fellies in th’ top-hats, sir—they’s
a deppytation was a-comin’ to see’ ’is
Ex’lenzy ’bout a-lettin’ them lags on th*
’Ashemy come ashore. An’ them other fellies
—not so well-dressed —they’re anti-trans-
portationers, y’r Honor- —an’ it looks like as
if they was a-goin’ for to deal it out to tlv
lags’ pals. But we can clear th’ ’ole of ’em off.
if you says so, sir. ’Tain’t right they should
come a-scrappin’ and a-hollerin’ on Gov’mint
"Ouse doorstep, so to speak, Mr. Cowper.
Shall I shove ’em out of it?"
“No, no—wait a few minutes. I’ll see
what I can do. I may have some influence
with-them. I think I understand the question
that’s exciting them. Keep your men steady.
Sergeant. I’ll attend to it.”
Pluckily, Mr. Cowper went through the
gates, which the sergeant slightly opened
for him, and stood in the roadway, on the
outskirts of the fray. A flying stone knocked
off his tall hat, but he merely retrieved it
from the mud and put it on again. H‘e
stood his ground gamely, striving to recog-
nise some person in the battling mob who
would assist him to restore order.
(Continued on page 57.)
The Shadow on the Hill.
Black eldritch trees against a scarlet
line
Of western sky; black all the heavens
and low,
Brooding and still;
And a dark narrow track, throicn like
a vin e
On which no leaves expand nor blos-
soms blow,
Across the hill.
One moves along it, as a darker
shade
Against the bleak black earth below
the trees,
Soundless as all,
And merges in the dusk —a thing
afraid
Of night, who hears a threat in every
breeze
When shadows fall.
QUEENSLAND.
hoi The poor native! Shall he
always tread
A darkening track until the darkened
end.
Humble and shy?
The scarlet of the fearful sky has
spread. ...
A danger signal flares. .. . He is a
friend. . . .
We watch him die.
Over the west a blood-red curtain
sweeps
And fades away, leaving a silent
earth
Empty and chill.
Even the shades are gone.,.. A
murmur creeps
And grows and swells, and laughs in
impish mirth
Upon the hill.
BLACK BONNET.


Banking, Public Companies, etc,
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..
Preference Shares
Long Term Mortgage Shares
Ordinary Shares .. ... -..
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
£529,988
1,875,000
703,125
3,750,000
4,042,591
Til? ou Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places
GRANTS
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and
a t interest for
fixed periods
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 207 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 985,000
£2,235,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,485,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting Loudon
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
Loudon, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN CEUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISEAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAD ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNED CDUB
N.Z. GODF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. PODO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to Service upon applica-
tion to —
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of the World’s Deading
Advertising Agencies.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
d
ď
master
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
' firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,'
Chartered Accountant (Aust.*).
July shows further substantial increases.
The’ notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE .. 3d.
__—g-
Vontains everything a woman needs to know,
Shipping, etc.
mm
i .
f..s
\ k dp 1 *
m
f
Boraa
rf£; sJLj
Excursions to HAWAII
The Canadian-
Australasian Line
will shortly commence it s
Summer Excursion Runs, which,
by specially reduced rates, bring
within your reach an interesting
voyage on a large and modern
liner with a holiday to follow in
Hawaii.
This famous little Island of the
South Seas is a cosmopolitan
holiday centre, world-famous for
its endless Summer sunshine, the
matchless surf of Waikiki Beach,
is tropical scenic splendor and its
carefree languorous life.
Sail by the Aorangi or Niagara (via
Auckland and Suva) on either of these
dates: November 14, December 12,
January 9, February 6. Excursion Rates:
£75 First Saloon £55 Second
Union Steam Ship Co.,
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne
BURNS-PHILP TOURS
JAVA
(The Land of Eternal Summer).
OLD BUDDHISTIC AND HINDUISTIO
TEMPLES—NATIVE BAZAARS.
EXCELLENT BIG-GAME SHOOTING.
BEAUTIFUL TROPICAL SCENERY.
EXTENSIVE TEA GARDENS.
INTERESTING PEOPLE.
Regular monthly sailings by the favorite
vessels "MARELLA” (7500 tons) and
"MALABAR” (5000 tons),
Pacific Island Excursions
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon
Islands, Lord Howe Island,
Norfolk Island and New Hebrides.
TRIPS OF FROM TWO TO FIVE WEEKS’
DURATION.
Make your selection now and Book Early,
Apply to
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide.
đ
bank of new south wales
ESTABLISHED 1817
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund. .
Reserve Liability
d
£7,500,000
5,900,000
7,500,000
£20.900,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1928, £88,982,585.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
554 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834. /
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP - - - - - - - - £4,739y012 10 0
RESERVE FUND - 4,200,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL -------- 4,739,012 10 0
£13,678,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman)*
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND; Major-General
the Hon, JAMES WILLIAM MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.;
EIDWARD RITCHIE KNOX. ;
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST. C
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB. Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia,- and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
' the world.
ill Classes of General Banking and. Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—-Inspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc,
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening ; passenger*
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Set*
BRISBANE.
FARES. —
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/t/.
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/16/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £ 3/81-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Rooking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart ParkerL^ 1
Magnlfioant
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice vena
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARK ER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Streat, Sydney.
BANFF
jweP
3
v.
So"
0*“
fo»
G°
>JV°'
t°V
0o e
a,tf>
W**
c,v»
v>e»
V sl
vVt
*v'
c v
c \'<"
ax'*
SJ»*
v*«*
fiA*
tiwp
sv*
s>
R»''
AS
S\t*
ot*> e
G e
C -
0,4 1
A"
Si
£B
Jlk
mi
The Worlds greatest timel system
jl3 STIFICAT/Qty
sat
Actual
The complete satisfaction, that
only perfection brings, more
than justifies the fastidiousness
that will insist on—
“la corona
IIAI.J- A-« Otto.vv
If any illustration in The Bulletin tafc-
your fancy, write to the Manager, who w-
quote you price for the original.


TYMCHESTM
TRAOK MARK
7
*r*-
v;
M
\
'y*
is»« --*' ’S^Utti*
oojo^r-^;
Manufacturers of
Winchester World
Standard Guns and
Ammunition
Music Offers Charm
and Pleasure
Especially when you use Winchester
Batteries to bring in the most faith-
ful reproduction of the beautiful
originals. As an aid to the most
correct tonal quality, sustained vol-
ume and clearness of reception
insist on
TYMCffESTER
THADC MAAft
Radio B and C Batteries
Their scientific construction and
great capacity assure you strong,
clear and long sustained satisfactory
reception. Winchester Batteries haye
high voltage output that is long
maintained and are so built as to
eliminate those battery noises that
interfere with good radio reception.
Buy Winchester Radio Batteries
at your dealers! Insist on the world
famed Winchester trade mark.
WINCHESTER REPEATING
ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN. CONN., U. S. A.
Mailed to you the j£L
day they are made
fjlve famous Red Box of Chocolates
f osb free bo any
address m Chxslralia.
CfATONjI
p m e bs
3h 54 , r 6f lO . 124.
, 204 and 30^
HILL
chocolate
162-166 Pitt Street
SsYD.I'liEiV"
Suddenly he recognised a big fellow who
seemed to be leading the attack on the top-
hatted deputation, and. as luck had it, the
man recognised the Colonial Secretary also,
“Mr Peabody—Jim Peabody !” shouted
the Minister, waving liis walking-stick in a
beckoning fashion. The man hastily punched
an opponent in the jaw, and came to him at
once.
* * * *
In the tap-room of the Natives’ Arms,
with a troubled eye that was contused and
purple, and a trickle of dried blood streaking
down across the cleft of his square chin, the
genial but discomfited Teddy Martin sur-
veyed the serried and battered ranks of the
“Phisolopliers.” They were a beaten army,
he had to admit, as he had to admit the
triumph of the forces of inhumanity and
injustice. To his gaping barman, Benjamin
Doolittle, he gave a historic order. Never,
in the subsequent long and honorable career
of the “Phisolopliers” as an institution—the
club did not finally expire until 1873—did
the members of his beiievolent order forget
those noble words.
“Benjamin,” he croaked, his throat hoarse
ivith much yelling of encouragement to his
followers in the recent battle for right and
charity, “serve each o’ these gents with
what he fancies, and then close the doors.
We want no outsiders here this night. And.
Benjamin, while I live, no member of the
Phisolophers ’ Club is to be asked to pay for
liis liquor!”
With undaunted spirit those who were
present—and there were some who had not
fought in Macquarie-street—cheered him to
the echo. Only did the applause die away
when Mr. Martin, the barked knuckles of a
clenched fist raised above liis head, roared a
request for silence, intimating that he had
a few remarks to make.
“Three cheers for the General!” howled
little Peter Mott, his quaint face even
quainter than usual with its splathered and
bloody nose and bunged-up eyes.
When the drinks had checked the exuber-
ance of the demonstration in his honor, Host
Martin made his speech. It was brief and
to the point.
"Feller Christians!” he bellowed hoarsely,
"I’m proud to entertain ye. Ye’ve fought
the good fight for freedom and liberty. Y"
heard what I’ve just said to Benjamiu Doo-
little about the footin’ on which each one of ye
stands henceforward within the doors of the
Natives’ Arms? I mean it. We’re a-goin'
to form ourselves into a society to do good—
for to loosen the shackles o’ th’ bondsman,
an’ to do th’ good turn to them that needs
it. To-day we have tasted defeat —to-morrow
will we reap the fruits o’ victory. Yus,
victory, gentlemen—victory over wrougdoin’
and uncharitableness. The Pliisolophers
will continue as an institution whilst I’m
a livin’ man ; and I hope that be th’ time it
comes for me to pass in my checks, to throw
up th’ towel, and no longer to be able to
battle for right agin oppression, th' club
we found to-night’ll be so strongly established
that our children, and our children’s child-
ren, 'll be proud for to belong to it. Bring
some cold meat in here, Benjamin. We’ll
have our first feast in celebration o' th’
foundin’ of th’ Pliisolophers’ Club.”
It was not, indeed, until the Sydney
Morning Herald had published a sub-
leader upon the lamented demise of this ex-
cellent man, this public-spirited citizen, and
this true Christian, and he had been laid to
rest in the old Devonshire-street cemetery,
that the worthy institution founded by
Edward Martin came to an end. His relict
found that so many guests of her tavern,
who could hardly have belonged to the
original, foundation of 1849, claimed to be
members of the “Phisolophers,” and thereby
entitled to free refreshment of a spirituous
and malten nature, that she was confronted
with the alternative of entertaining fewer
“Phisolophers” or of surrendering her
license. So, in the words of buxom Mrs.
Zillah Martin, the club was brought to an
end.
“This dam’ foolery,” she said, “has gone on
long enough.”
But many a poor prisoner coming out of
Darlinghurst or Parramatta or Berrima gaol
had cause to regret the passing of “the Phiso-
lophers.” Its motto had been “Do good to the
lags,” .and it was the forerunner by many
years of that triily admirable organisation,
the Prisoners’ Aid Society.
In the Land of the Lamas.
S. STEDMAN
A RUSSIAN BORN IN SIBERIA , GIVES The Bulletin
ANOTHER SKETCH OF LIFE IN THE LAND OF THE LAMAS.
IT was market-day in Verklineudinsk. From
early morning heavy drays, drawn by
oxen and laden with hay, fiour'and oats,
entered the city from all directions. The
animals moved slowly, the, drivers not inter-
fering with their pace. Perched on top of
the loads sat men, women and children,
dressed in their best and newest terlooks and
soft-soled untas. For many months they
had been looking forward to this trip, making-
new clothes and feeling happy in anticipation
of a visit to the big city.
Since Yerkhneudinsk in Siberia had become
the capital of the Buriat-Mongol Republic,
they loved coming here. Each one export
enced a secret joy and satisfaction at the
thought that the city was theirs. Only a
few years ago they were strangers here,
often the objects of the Russians' cruel
jokes. Now they were the masters. Whole
families wandered about the streets admiring
the tall buildings, touching the stone walls
to convince themselves of their solidity, and
comparing, tlieip with their own woollen
yourtas [ tents J.
The market-place was thronged with a
motley crowd of talking, shouting and singing-
people. Many of them were swarthy gypsies,
gesticulating wildly and enumerating the
many good qualities of their horses, while
the Buriats looked on with a kindly grin on
their faces. In another place a Russian mad<‘
a wonderful display of cheap, brightly colored
pictures, which attracted the women and
children. Soon the prints would find their
way into the yourtas many miles away, some
of them even reaching the gates of the temple
at the Goose Lake.
Surrounded by a circle of men, a young
Buriat exhorted his countrymen to forsake
the religion of their fathers and accept the
new teaching of Bolshevism. The youth
had been trained in Russia for propaganda
work among, the Buriats. He spoke in the
native tongue, and the crowd listened to his
eloquent speech, smiling, probably feeling
proud of him because, he, too, was one of
them, and missing all his arguments.
On the fringe of. the assembly stood old
Zorektuy, his red silk terlook and shaven
head proclaiming him a lama. He gazed at
the speaker, blinking his faded, watery eyes,
his lips repeating the words of a prayer, his
hands moving the beads of the rosary.
When the meeting ended he slowly wended
his way through the crowd, which, seeing
the aged lama, cleared a path. He came
close to the youth and stood still, looking
at him. Then in a voice weak with age he
said:
“Badmai, thou art the son of my brother,
follow me. I wish to speak with thee.”
For some time the youth remained irre-
solute ; he stood with eyes cast down,
"watched by many. The old man walked
on, certain that his command would be
obeyed. Leaving the market-place, soon his
red coat disappeared from view; yet not
once did he turn to look back. Suddenly
the youth made a step forward, stopped,
then ran after the old lama. Only at the
gate of the inn Zorektuy waited for Badmai,
and the two entered together.
His legs crossed under him, the lama sat
on a mat drinking tea. An old Buriat woman
"With a shaven head, which betokened a nun,
Served him. She awaited his commands with
fear and respect. Her head was bent ; thin
and shrivelled, she looked more like a
yellow mummy than a living woman.
There was a long silence broken only by
loud sippings. Then the old man rose, and,
approaching a corner, set in motion the
f-Churde mill which did the praying for him
While he spoke.
“I heard thee speak. Badmai.” he said.
The youth waited while the lama, extract-
ing a little bottle of snuff, noisily inhaled it.
“Why dost thou wage war on thy gods?"
he asked simply.
The youth smiled. At this question all
his well-learned arguments crowded in his
mind.
“Because they are false and useless,” he
nnicflv nnt wishing m Aff.-nU W
uncle. “How can one believe that this pray-
ing mill can be a substitute for the sincere
appeal of one’s heart'/ How can a strange
stone image be a god?”
The old man thought and then answered :
“It was good enough for our fathers, it
is good enough for us. It is so easy to excite
the minds of men, to sow the seeds of
bitter discontent in their . hearts; but the
harvest brings no happiness, no content.”
With a wave of the hand he commanded
the youth to be silent. “To-morrow I shall
go to Ivhambin and thou shalt come with me
into the Holy Temple. There shalt thou
repent.” '
Without further talk he dismissed his
nephew, and gave the praying mill another
spin.
The youth went out into the sunshine;
though liis duty was to continue his meeting,
he somehow could not do it no.w. Instead,
he wandered aimlessly about, the market,
stopping to look at the squat casks of omul,
and, after buying some cedar nuts, joined
a company of boys and girls who sat at*a
table drinking Russian kvas.
A restless night Badmai spent debating
the question of going with the lama. Towards
morning a thought came to him which settled
the doubt and gave him satisfaction. He
would go with his uncle, and there, in the
very land of the lamas, he would preach Bol-
shevism : he would carry the war into their
temple ; he would laugh at their gods and
tell the poor people how foolish they were
to he led by the lamas. He almost wept
thinking of the dirt and disease in which,
his people dwelt. He would teach them to
go to doctors with their instead
of to lamas, who were as ignorant as them-
selves ; he would teach them to lead a clean,
healthy life.
Too excited to sleep, he walked towards
the quay. The waters of fhe Selenga greeted
him with a pleasant murmur. A dog barked
on one of the rafts of timber- which came
down-stream to the city. li'e walked rjp and
down the foreshore. Speeches, each more
wonderful than the other, came to him. -In
his mind he addressed vast audiences, finding
for them new and convincing arguments. He
looked across the river where, sleeping peace-
fully, lay the Cossack settlement, a city , in
itself. • -
The morning breeze brought the sweet
fragrance of the ebercomukha. He inhaled it
with delight. Everywhere ivas peace and
tranquillity, and Badmai' felt the serene in-
fluence. He had almost forgotten his decision
to carry relentless war into the land of his
people. There were moments when he feared
this campaign of strife, when he wished to
be merely one of the Buriats who enjoyed
the simple pleasures of life. Yet he knew this
was impossible now. The years he had spent
in the Russian school and the training he
had received prevented him from - returning
to the ways of the Buriats. His love and pity
for them drove him on—grim, compelling
taskmasters.
When the sun rose Badmai stood at the
gate of the inn waiting for Zorektuy the
lama.
Throughout the day they travelled in
silence, the old man dozing or counting the
beads, the youth composing speeches. When
the night fell a hospitable host fed • them
on choice pieces of mutton, which he pulled
out of a huge copper bucket with his hands,
then they drank salted tea, after which tin-
hostess cleared the cups and bowls, licking
them clean and putting them away.
In the morning they resumed their journey,
passing on their way grazing cattle, sheep
and horses, and stopping now and then to
talk to the shepherds. Presently they came
across white tombstones. Many riders, men
and women, now passed them. In the dis-
tance they saw the, bent roof of the temple,
the wind ringing the little bells on the roof.
Lamas walked up and down, going in and
mill ° f small enclosures to turn a praying
f


r
W -S
Mumlhit 1 ' rM-
:
K
“Gvery picture
Cells a S^ ot M f *
Comfort Old Age
by keeping the kidneys active
jyjUCH CAN BE DONE to comfort old people, for
backache, urinary disorders, sciatica, lumbago,
rheumatism, gravel and inflammation of the bladder are
too often suffered unnecessarily. The kidneys, prob-
ably, are the weak spot. They need the special
strengthening help of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
This kidney stimulant makes the kidneys active; it
strengthens them and helps them keep the blood pure.
thereby preventing, as well as relieving, the symptoms of kidney disorder. Don't run serious risks! No
matter what your age may be, an occasional course of Doan’s Pills will prove helpful. Doan’s act on the
kidneys; they do not affect the liver, the stomach or the bowels.
INTERESTING SYDNEY EVIDENCE,
A WOMAN’S CASE.
Mrs. Pullbrook, sen., 23 Egar Street, Redfern, Sydney, says; “For
six or seven years I Avas troubled with weak and disordered kidneys.
The chief symptom was backache, and the pain I suffered was awful.
When I stooped the agony in standing up again was almost unbearable,
and I often had to get someone to help me. Nothing I took seemed to
relieve the pain, and I used to wonder if I should ever be well again.
One day I was urged by a friend to try Doan's Backache Kidney Pills,
and it was a real friend’s advice, for a few bottles completely cured me.
My experience proves that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are a genuine
remedy, and I sincerely trust that other sufferers will benefit by my
experience and take these splendid Pills.”
Sixteen years later Mrs. Pullbrook says: "I am still a great believer
in Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and would not like to be without
them. They are invaluable to the kidney sufferer.”
A MAN’S CASE,
Mr. B. Preston, “Elsinor,” Park Road, Mascot, Sydney, says: “In
consequence of a cold settling on my kidneys I was almost crippled with
backache. My back ached terribly, and every movement seemed to
make the pain more acute. My rest at night was disturbed, no position
being comfortable for long, and during the day I was tired and weary.
The kidney secretions were disordered, being thick and cloudy. My wife,
who had taken Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills some time previously with
very beneficial results, advised me to give the remedy a trial. I acted
on her advice, and am very glad I did, for three bottles of the pills
cured me completely. I feel splendid now, and have only Doan’s Pills
to thank for my freedom from backache and kidney trouble.”
Four years later Mr. Preston says: “I am still well, and have not
been troubled with my kidneys since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
cured me.”
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS
Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills are sold by al-
chemists and Storekeeper*'
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors, 15 Hamilton
Street, Sydney.
The old man dismounted, the youth doing
likewise.
Entering the temple the lama prostrated
himself on the well-swept floor. From
outside came the monotonous call of the faith-
ful to service. Badmai stood silently looking
at the prostrate figure jof the lama, watching
the sacred pigeons flying about the huge
building. The colossal image stared at him
with its huge eyes. He felt strangely sub-
dued. Something gripped him by the heart.
Confused, he left, the temple.
Outside he quickly recovered. From the
bosom of his ample coat he. pulled Bolshevik
placards and stuck them on the wall of the
temple. Lamas were soon reading them, their
faces animated and angry.
A multitude of worshippers assembled
wanting to know what was written on the
paper. Badmai stood at some distance
enjoying their interest and perplexity. H’is
heart beat; violently and the blood rushed
to his face.
“How wonderful it is to-eause such a stir!
But this is only the beginning!” he thought.
Zorektuy finished his prayer and, not
seeing his nephew, went to search for him.
Then he stood reading the placards.
“Who is this man?” He heard the angry
shouts in the crowd and knew what they
meant. He saw Badmai, and, coming near
him. said:
“I brought thee here to ask forgiveness for
thy sins. Now thou hast added insult to me
thy uncle. Already much harm has been
done to us. No more can a father dedicate
his child to the services of the All-Holy
until he reaches the age of eighteen years,
and that is too late.”
He spoke calmly, his old wrinkled face
betraying no emotion.
“At eighteen years,” he continued, “oue
does not wish to become a lama. Other
thoughts fill the mind, other feelings invade
the heart; yet the new law says it must be,
and we obey.”
Badmai listened attentively to the old
lama, whose life had been spent in prayer,
knowing no ordinary human joys of wife,
of child.
“Thou who art my nephew,” the old man
continued, “hast brought these writings and
put them on the wall of the temple. It is my
duty to tell these people who thou art that
they may deal with thee. Yet I have no heart
to do it, for thou art the son of my brother.
Promise me to leave this place and my
people; then thou canst go to dwell amongst
thy new friends and worship their gods.”
Badmai, putting his hand on the old man's
shoulder, said gently:
“O thou who art my uncle, my new people
have no gods—they believe in the goodness
of man.”
“It is not good, my son,” said Zorektuy, “to
cause pain to others. Thou art causing much
pain. Go,” he said, and leaving Badmai he
was lost in the crowd.
The throng of angry lamas grew, and
there was now a great congregation of wor-
shippers who demanded to know who it was
that had done this sacrilegious act.
The vastness of the crowed fired Badmai’s
imagination. A flood of words surged within
him, submerging, choking him, clamoring to
be uttered. Almost unconscious of what he
did, he mounted an old monument, and,
standing high above them all shouted:
“I am the man. my brothers, whom ye
accuse of sacrilege.”
The crowd instantly swung round. Hun-
dreds of devouring eyes were on the flushed
face of the voutli.
“You lamas,” he shouted rudely, “teachers
who have spent many years iu learning by
heart the three hundred and thirty six
volumes of sacred books, you are men _of
honor and piety, but I tell you your teaching
is false! Your gods are false!”
An angry murmur rose from the people.
“Don’t listen to him,” somebody cried,
while the youth, now unable to restrain him-
self. went on:
“Look at the poor Buriat people, my coun-
trymen. What have you taught them? Do
their bodies not rot away with loathsome
diseases? And are not their minds stinted
with useless, harmless teachings? You
lamas who work not enjoy a comfortable
life. There are twelve thousand of you
amongst one hundred and thirty thousand
people. Every thirteenth man a lama, and
the twelve must rvork to keep the one in
luxury!”
A shout of protest rose from the lamas,
the noise drowning the voice of the youth.
Somebody sprang upon an old cart shout-
ing:
“H’e must be stoned, the traitor! He uses
profane language towards our gods and
the lamas!”
The crowd moved restlessly. Somebody-
pulled a cobble-stone out of the pavement
and hurled it over the heads of the people.
The stone missed the youth and struck
one of the enclosures which harbored a
praying mill. It broke through the thin
board and exposed the mill.
“Kill him,!” shouted the mob.
A piece of mud-brick struck Badmai on
the shoulder. He reeled, then recovered, and
his young voice floated above the din.
Zorektuy stood listening to bis nephew’s
speech. Once or twice he smiled inwardly,
but his parchment-like face remained un-
moved. “He is a brave lad,” he thought
with pride, “he has good blood in him.”
A second missile hit the youth. Blood
trickled down his cheek, but he spoke on as
if driven by some invisible power, his lang-
uage sti-ong and direct, lashing the crowd
into a fury.
Zorektuy, seeing the blood, made his way
forward, risking the witath of the lamas
and populace. “I must save him,” he said.
“Youth often has to be saved from itself.”
He felt a great pity for the boy who had
been led into the wrong path by strangers.
“He must not be sacrificed to the anger
of the people,” he said again, “for then
two sins will have been committed, one by
the youth and the other by the slayers.”
On seeing Zorektuy’s red coat the crowd
became silent, waiting in suppressed excite-
ment.
“I told thee to go,” he said to the youth.
“I brought thee here and feel responsible
for thee.”
“I blame thee not, my father’s brother,
for I wanted to be here,” cried Badmai
exultantly.
The old man stretched out his bony hand.
“I forgive thee Badmai,” he said, “for thou
art brave! But it is foolish to give tliy
life so uselessly. Nobody will be happier
for it. GrOj I beg of thee.”
The youth gripped the lama’s hand, the
two remaining silent, while Badmai pond-
ered over the lama’s words.
“He, too, is an apostate!” cried the lamas.
“Kill them both !”
The clamor rose heavenwards; then some-
one threw a heavy stone, which struck the
old man's head, so that he sank to the
ground, his blood losing itself on his red-silk
coat.
At that, Badmai sprang down from the
monument, and, lifting the limp body of
the lama, spoke to him, calling to him to
open his eyes. The crowd stood hushed,
frightened by its own deed.
As if unaware of the hostile multitude,
Badmai carried the old man into the temple.
The lamas watched him with sullen eyes.
He put Zorektuy on the floor near the
Image, and washed the blood off with the
water which the lamas had made holy by
spitting into it. He bent over the dead man.
Tears blinded him. He no longer felt. the
fiery orator who had a message to deliver.
He was just a hoy now, who grieved
for the death of a kinsman, and feared
the threatening people outside. Loud sobs
shook his body and disturbed the sacred
pigeons feeding on the floor, so that they
rose fluttering under the high roof.
Badmai raised his eyes and looked into
the inscrutable face of the Image.
“I came to laugh at thee.” he said. “Now
I must seek safety in thy presence.”
Suddenly his courage came back.
“Thou winnest to-day,” he cried. “Mine
will be the victory to-morrow!”
dutside the crowd muttered ominously.
Longing.
I would give much to see
The forest tremulous with silver rain;
And unquenched crimson fire of the wild
heath
Creeping and glowing. .. .and to hear again
The grey thrush call to me!
Feel the winds’ soft wet kisses, there beneath
The frail, delicious wings
Of a rainbow that swings
From violet horizon to horizon
For a brief space, and then anon is gone 1
I would give much to taste
Wild honey shaken from drenched wind-
touched boughs,
And glimpse the broken gold of wattle-trees
Binding bright coifs about the hills’ green
brows!
Know with what joyous haste
The cattle go until the damp-mouthed breeze
Blows through the glowing dells
The elfin chime of bells;
And I would coq-ee till at last I beard
You answer with the sweetness of a bird!
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.
The Whispering Currajong.
Come back to the ridge and the river,
And the ways where you belong,
To the plains and the swamps for ever ,
Says the whispering currajong.
In the sun-washed garden ingles,
Where the sunflowers nod and sway,
Is a whispering voice that mingles
With memory’s tones alway.
Come back, come back to the tussock plain,
And the place where you belong—
Over again and over again,
Says the whispering currajong.
Come back to the swamps and the reaches,
Where the garb of the green months
smiles;
Come back where the hot haze bleaches
Down the long, long mallee miles.
To the crash and the mighty chorus
Of the storm in the tree-tops strong
To the June gales hammering o er us,
Says the whispering currajong.
When the clouds roll up in thunder,
Or the frost wind whips from the south,
Where the earth lies fainting under
The long sick swoon of the drouth,
All of the red Decembers,
And the fair mouth’s blossomry,
The whispering tree remembers,
And never will let me be.
Whispering there in the quiet
Of the sultry summer noon,
Where the loose-leaved roses riot
And the grey doves coo and croon.
Though never a slow wind passes
To the lilt of a cricket’s song,
Telling its tale to the grasses,
Stands the whispering currajong.
When the north wind leaps and rages
Hot breathed and red leagues wide,
And scatters like torn-out pages
The leaves of the countryside,
Low in the lull of the onset,
Loud when the strife is long,
And dying away with the sunset
Croons the whispering currajong.
Come back, come back to the old days..,,
So long have the troubled years
Hidden the way with mist-wreaths grey
And covered the track with tears.
And I would if I could, but, oh, how vain
And useless for long and long
Is the voice of the past and the pleading par
Of the whispering currajong!
When the heat waves shimmer and quiver
When the winter nights are long —
Come back to the ridge and the river,
Says the whispering currajong.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.
Dropping Off.
A snapping of thread,
A fading of echo,
The brush of a wing,
The wave of a Tvand,
The droop of a shadow,
The onset of sleep.
maobiland.
ARNOLD WALL


sg@rv
-
w
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD:,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—" Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide. S.A.
Queensland’s Greatest Advertising Medium,
“BRISBANE COURIER”
Carries more advertising than two other Brisbane dailies combined.
14,216
13,758 i
“COURIER”
for 6 months,
Ending June 31, '29
Two other Dailies
for same period
Advertising
Columns.
Advertising
Columns.
The “Brisbane Courier” is the largest and most reliable financial,
commercial and home paper in Queensland.
First in Circulation, Coverage, Advertising and Influence.
Published by THE BRISBANE NEWSPAPER CO.,
Courier Building, Queen Street, Brisbane.
Syd. Rep.: ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“THE AGE *
Established 185J f .
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
Xo advertising campaign can be success™
fid if the quality of the product adver-
tised does not contain full value for
the price asked.
If your products can meet these require-
ments, “The Age” will prove a valuable
medium for creating goodwill, and
will considerably lessen the time in
moving them from storage to consumer.
Merchants and Manufacturers of quality
products in ever increasing number. l '
are realising the truth of the slogan
‘‘lt Pays to Advertise,” and are direct-
ing their efforts in; marketing through
the columns of “The Age” as a neces-
sary medium for business promotion in
Victoria,
Audited Net Daily Circulation
123,533.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents m all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
Che Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements .
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all Inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price 1 id.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative :
F. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, ‘‘The Herald” Buildipgs,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, 8.C.4.
IF YOU DESIRE
TO REACH THE
TASMANIAN
BUYING PUBLIC
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
should carry your message.
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town and
Country—this Popular Weekly goes regularly
into the homes of the people, and each
issue is eagerly lead by men, women and
children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest, with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays. Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYLNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 228
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: ‘Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin’* takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
#
A
w
4
A WOMAN’S sensibilities
are finer, her enthusiasms
deeper than man’s. She
overworks, overplays, “ lives
on her nerves ” and is nearly
always constipated and suffers.
Women need Beecham’s Pills.
They bring colour to the
cheeks, sparkle to the eyes,
and quiet to the nerves by
stimulating healthy digestion
and regular complete elim-
ination.
Beecham’s Pills enable
woman to be at her best.
/
vc %
r ' *>
'<■
A Xj-3> T
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10. 1929
Vo! S.
I.« *
THIS WEEK’S FREE PATTERN
(See page 64)
64 Pages
of
Ridding for the Homi
STOKp, VERSE. SRKIAI
ARTICLES
Fashions, Needlework
Health, Household,
Books, etc.
t^ubHsfied
tfyitfeZui
xishu
o
Over 160,000 Copies Sold Every Week
\v 6 :9
tvr n*
* o<
•• o* V
* o**4


•fpi
/A
MIL
*35?
fir
m
&)pi
i?**r
o‘>
A*
"V*
!!*'*»##•#»
ni i
rr r»
1
iii;iiiiiiiiui«;iiu; | HHjg»:i;ssssiSiiii
liiiinmmti!!!!
iiuiimiiiim***»<'»*•'*;
fiiSra'SiSiSiiiiSiiiiiiiiniiui illLlllUV.!!' ;
iiiitii it ti mi !!•«•• I*l «t«» 1 •
miiiitiiitfiiiiti*'!.!'
ayjsihm
ii[v
■* HDIODSaiO
Bjoan
r-\
w
frR HIS RENOWNED
i 1 j BRAND OF OLD
SCOTCH WHISKY IS
NOW OBTAINABLE IN
SCREW-CAP BOTTLES,
WHICH HAVE THE
FOLLOWING ADVANTAGES:
1. Corkscrew unnecessary,
2. Simplest fitment for
opening and closing.
3. Leakage impossible.
4. Faulty corks eliminated
TKe
NEW SCREW CAP
IS
SIMPLE
SAFE &
SECURE.
, ‘Jfte
quAUTV WI& BOTTLED
UNDER, THE SUPERVISION
AffIMMONWEAim CUSTOMS'
(pKVO^
