

CREAM
OF __
YEAST
0,.
VlUmiiM TortW
Compos**
SAft
SURE
IK
c*
W'
tatttoiun
?*.•* /A
■y ♦.*
The remarkable value of Yeast for Better Health is everywhere recognised. The world’s leading
scientific men have unanimously reported in favor of it for intestinal and digestive disorders, skin
troubles, faulty elimination, cc run-down” conditions and other ills. It is most important, hotvever,
that the public should realise that yeast, to be ioo per cent effective, must be activated, and that it is in-
correct to suppose that any kind of yeast will give the same beneficial results as genuine Cream of Yeast .
Brewers' yeast alone does not work at its best as a remedy
for everyday ills and “below-par” conditions. So the
greatest chemical organisation in the world manufacturing
medicinal yeast, after considerable research and experience,
evolved the special activated form known as Cream of Yeast.
This is a highly-compressed yeast, scientifically combined
with other perfectly safe medicinal agents of known thera-
peutic value in such a way as vastly to increase the value of
yeast for remedial purposes. In Cream of Yeast is offered a
handy medicine giving prompt benefit with absolute certainty .
of Yeast gives you the following
{PLAIN BREWERS ’ YEAST DOES NOT GIVE THESE BENEFITS)
Headaches relieved in 4 minutes. Acidity , Sour Stomach
find Indigestion relieved in 3 minutes. Rheumatic Attacks,
Influenza Colds, etc., countered within IS hours.
Depression and “Brain Fag” relieved in 8 minutes .
Nerves steadied in 10 minutes. Energy increased within
IS minutes. Abdominal Pains relieved in 12 minutes.
sdf
Try this modern Remedy for yourself, but remember that you must get Cream of Yeast if you want the
best results. More Cream of Yeast is sold than all other yeast medicines combined, yet Cream of Yeast
costs very little, a flask of 24 Tablets being 1/11, 48 Tablets 3/6, or 125 Tablets 5/9. Since any good
chemist can supply you, why not let this remarkable remedy rid you of those ailments that ncyv mar your
health and good looks ? The very first dose of Cream of Yeast will convince you of its merit .
MU
f
Quickest, Surestj Best Resuite' Largest Sates
75% More beneficial than Brewers Yeast
The Bulletin
£/ oUtfnv&CV' /{rtorto 10--cLoa^
Vol. 50.—N0. 2559.
Wednesday, February 27, 1929.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


AY/RITE FOR THE LIBRARY CATA-
w LOGUE AND LISTS on all subjects,
which will be forwarded on application, post
free, to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
»vm
IILL*
TO STOTT’S,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send vie !fee, and without obligation, your
New Illustrated Book (just published) entitled,
“BEAUTIFUL PENMANSHIP.”
NAME
ADDRESS
B/P
lUYSAGHT*
o
0
R
sd
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
GRASP THE SHADOW ERE THE SUBSTANCE FADE
PIECE ME TOGETHER AND YOUR FORTUNE’S MADE.
TALE OF A LUCKY BLACK CAT—In Many Parts—Part One
v-4j^
<c
Jp
u -
O
IS is .
4
o
NO Al
■ -
*ox
#2
Vi
Dm
TA
se
l an
89 >4
13d
The Nine Lives of a Cat in 23 Pieces
Behold me, King of the Luck Bringcrs! Mind
you, I’m not an ordinary Tom Cat that stays
out all night, so my scattered parts cannot be
attributed to the careful aim of an annoyed
citizen resenting a courtship with Tabby on
the Tiles. Among my family inheritance is
a trick of being able to pull myself to nieces
at a moment’s notice, without disturbjiiß my
genius for luck-bringing. Indeed, the norson
who can put me together again has all the
luck. I have specially offered my services to
the N.S.W. Fire Brigades Art Union to test the
skill of the good people to whom I have
brought fortune and good luck for several
years.
There Is money in this. In fact, there is a
fortune. All you have to do is to piece me
together so as to form a complete picture.
First send an application and enclose 5/
for a book of 6 tickets. This book
of tickets will be sent to you, together
with a leaflet containing my scattered parts,
looking ' just like the parts that appear in
this advertisement. You can sell or keep the
book of tickets, making a shilling on the
transaction. Or you can sell five and keep
one. The tickets are for the N.S.W. Fire
Brigades Art Union for £lO,OOO in prizes, the
first prize being a Solid Gold Helmet valued
at £3OOO, the largest prize for a shilling ever
offered in Australia. You may win this.
Now comes your next piece of good fortune.
There will be a special distribution of £5O in
prizes among those who send back the lucky
black cat pieced together correctly. The
amount will be distributed among those who
give the correct solution—First Prize £25,
Second Prize £lO, Third Prize £2, three
consolation prizes of £l, ten consolation
prizes of 10/, and 20 consolation prizes of
5/. It is yours for the glad hand.
Register your name at once. In addition, if you retain the 6th ticket, you may win
the £3OOO prize, or any of the others. For six tickets you may win prizes valued ai
over £5OOO, including a casket of diamonds, a diamond tiara, and seven motor cars
The closing date for the Lucky Black Cat Competition is Saturday, March 30. 1029.
It is the easiest piece of luck I have ever offered, and I have been in the luck
business since Noah lee me and Tabitha out of the Ark.
Address all applications, with 5/ enclosed, to J. J. Neville, Hon. Secretary, Fire
Brigades Headquarters, 213 Castlereagh-rtreet, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE NEW SOUTH WALES FIRE BRIGADES’ ART UNION
FOR HOSPITALS, AMBULANCES, AND CHARITY.
(Sanctioned by the Attorney-General)
£lO.OOO in Prizes. The most stupendous Prize List ever drawn up. Tickets: One
Shilling.
Six Ticket*. 5/; Twelve Tickets, 10/; Twenty-five Tickets, £l.
A Ticket a Day Keeps Misfortune Away!
Send at once. State whether Mr., Mrs., or Miss. Enclosed stamped envelope
for result slip. Art Union Drawn on June 1, 1929.
.1. J. NEVILLE, Hon. Secretary.
Fire Brigades Headquarters. 213 Castlereagh-street. Sydney, N.S.W.
fs
r
the," VENUS
lans the World
i he first rough suggestion—the skilful
and accurate working out, the sharp
detailed drawings, all the preliminary
planning necessary to the carrying out of
constructive effort, call for the use of VENUS
PENCILS Whether it be for the building of a
battle-ship or the design of a simple household
article, the pencil is the first requirement: the
VENUS the first pencil.
df
17 Riacklead Legrees cb-th cd. each -4/9 per cozen, iuper Copying (Medium & Hard) 6d.
each - 5/y per dozen. Venus Copying iMecium & Hard) 4d. each - 3/9 per dozen.
og
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
sdf
# *
i*
*
y / Wi
7
Wl'W
IT"
«* *•'
*■*
Sold Everywhere.
MUSTDIE’ kiIIs fli
The Red Page
1929 Novel Competition
In August, 1927, The Bulletin, which
has been responsible for popularising the
short story in Australia, and has' created a
school of short-story writers, retalised that
the' time had coiite when something should
lie done for the Jong story and the long-
story writer. It therefore announced a
series of competitions for a full-length
novel, with prizes substantial enough to
attract the best of which Australia is cap-
able. The 1928 competition attracted the
amazing number of 542 entries, and the
merit of the prize-winners caused The Bul-
letin to raise the prize-money for that
competition from £7OO to £1075.
The second competition will close on 31st,
December, 1929, at The Bulletin Office,
214 George-street North, Sydney.
Prizes: First, £400; second, £250; third,
£lOO. .
The prize stories are to be available for
publication serially; but apart from that
the copyright of every story will be reserved
to the writer,' to whom all profits on the
publication of the story in book form will
belong. It is expected that, as the result
ol winning the competition, the prize
stories will have a very large sale in Aus-
tralia and Great Britain. Cinema and dra-
matic rights also will belong absolutely to
the writer. Competitors must be Austra-
lian-born or bona fide resident in Australia.
(Australia* for the purposes of this para-
graph, includes New Zealand and the
Southern Pacific.)
Members of The Bulletin and Woman’s
Mirror staffs will not be eligible to com-
pete.
Every story for competition must be sub-
mitted under a nom de plume; and the
name and address of the writer, with the
nom, de plume, must accompany it in a
sealed envelope, which will not be opened
until after the stories have been judged.
Stories submitted for competition must not
have been previously published
The length of the novel is left to the
discretion of the writer; but a novel which
goes beyond 100,000 words is not suitable
for serial publication, and something around
80,000 words has been found most suitable.
Entries will be considered from the point
of view of suitability for serial publication
in either The Bulletin or the Woman’s
Mirror.
No restriction has been placed upon the
location or style of novels. While typed
MSS. would be preferred, no objection will
be taken to MSS. written in a clear and
legible handwriting.
If stamps are enclosed, all MSS. that do
not gain a place will be returned to their
authors promptly after the decision is made.
Competitors whose entries do not gain a
prize but whose work is considered suitable
for serial publication will be notified to that
effect. But no entries will be retained for
that purpose without the permission of the
author. Competitors will be permitted to
withdraw entries before the closing date if
they so desire.
The Bulletin will be pleased to supply
any further information upon request.
THE YORICK
5. —A New Light on Kendall.
[ln this article Hugh McCrae throws new light
on Kendall by means of notes and letters left by
the poet George Gordon McCrae, Hugh’s father and
contemporary and friend of the bright Australian
literary circle of the ’sixties, ’seventies and ’eighties.]
Originally a writer’s club, the Yorick
required that every member should have
written a book; but, because there were not
enough bookmen to give it numerical
strength, this rule was altered so as to in-
clude the fellowship of the press.
An immediate triumph; Chanticleer
Yorick, preening its feathers, leapt jauntily
under the sun. Other men were attracted
from outside; and it became apparent that
there existed more potential authors in
Melbourne than anybody had dreamed
about. “Mute inglorious Miltons.” Doctors
who laid published treatises on whooping-
cough, and lawyers, responsible for indiges-
tible digests, began to drift in—and there
is the particular instance of a gentleman
who once edited the Police Gazette.
From an irresponsible crew the members
of the club evolved into a congregation of
city men known for Yoricks “by reason of
their sad and sober looks, and the absence
of jesting among their company.” (G. G.
McC.)
But a change was soon to take place;
and, presently, the sanctum of the Colonial
Monthly blossomed out as the new head-
quarters of the literary elect. The Yorick
remained the Yorick in name only. Marcus
Clarke and Richard Birnie beckoned the
coterie back to their offices at Queen-street,
where they drank and wrote in a room so
illustrative that even the ceiling paraded
a face.
Here we get our first glimpse of Kendall,
young and slight, dressed completely in
black, and seated on the edge of a chair;
he drinks little, but writes absorbedly while
John Shillinglaw sings “Roll a Man Down”
to the stupendous choruses of Clarke,
Ogier and company. The office boy, carry-
ing pewter mugs one way and “copy” an-
other, has christened Kendall “The Snaky
Poet”—this in allusion to his sombre locks ;
which overrun his collar luxuriously.
Kendall, who has served in shops and
ships, treats his manuscript neatly; just as
“In a room so illustrative that even the
ceiling paraded a face.”
he had formerly clone with parcels across
the counter or ropes at sea. His mascotte
is his umbrella; and, standing near the fire-
place, his forehead shadowed by a tall hat,
he looks like a mute waiting for the funeral
to begin.
Nobody so laconic; nobody so respectful.
All hands take an interest in him; and
Gordon, especially, is his friend.
When Shillinglaw, satirising an absent
member, exclaims “He’s a silly fool
—yes, but such a sincerely silly one!”
Kendall is the only man who doesn’t laugh.
He sees the joke; but disapproves of the
barb underlying it.
In IS6B Kendall married Charlotte
Rutter, of Sydney. He continued living in
Melbourne; but, after the death of his
daughter, returned to New South Wales.
Consider the names of his children;
Orara and Persia-—a boy and a girl.
Through paralysis Kendall lost the use
of his right hand; so that pothooks and
hangers had to be done with the left.
Curious calligraphy, Greek-looking, in
imperishable ink.
A sensitive man, he was easily offended;
but never bore malice. He loved his wife
passionately; and died with her head re-
clining against his breast.
* :|« * *
The following letters seem to me to throw
a new light upon Kendall, revealing lam
as different in many ways from the gener-
ally accepted picture. Writing from Cam-
den Haven, 2nd June, 1880, after praising
G. G. McCrae’s “Man in the Iron Mask”
he goes op to say:—
This is not, old man, an issue of “the
Mutual admiration racket.” I can write an
Australian lyric better than you or any other
man this side of the equator; but “The Man
in the Iron Mask” is immeasurably beyond
my power.... There was nothing in “Mam-
ba” to indicate the author of this last-
superb drama. What are you doing? Are
you sulking like the son of Thetis in your
tent, or are you “boozing up” with Marcus
Clarke and other remnants of the good old
Crowd? Brunton Stephens has sent me a
copy of “Miscellaneous Poems” and his photo-
graph. His face is that of a good fellow, and
his book is delightful.
v "S- v
Camden Haven,
June 22nd. 1880.
I claim for Brunton Stephens the first place
among Australian poets; but that does nor
mean that he is first among poets living in
Australia. He is no more capable of writing
(Continued on page 5.)


hrSP
XT 66—An All Steel Plough, built with extra heavy construction
and reinforcements throughout, and is intended for heavy con-
tractors’ work where great strength is necessary. Four or more
horses are used. The Points and Mouldboards are especially
designed for digging and loosening the hardest clay, gravel and
rocky ground. The Beams are made of charcoal iron or steel,
extra heavy. The handles are made wholly of steel, well braced.
Used with great success for ploughing out rabbit burrows.
Price £l5/7/6
Plough, with Charcoal Iron Beam, weight 2501 b. (XT 66).
Price . . i £ll/10/-
Extra Steel Sharec 36/-
sd
XT 52 1 — John Deere New Bantam Plough. A strong light All
Steel One-horse Plough, designed for use in mixed lands.
Equally suited for ploughing either hilly or flat land.
Size .... 7in. Weight .... 641 b. Price .... £4
Size 9 in. Weight 841 b. Price £4/17/6
Coulter and Wheels extra as for “Red Jacket” Ploughs.
/
7
The Morgan Patent Spading Harrow is unquestionably the most
effective harrow ever invented. Swingle-trees, cleaners, included
in prices. We stock the following sizes:—
“Truth in Advertising,” the bulwark of our reputation for honest trading.
Anthony Hordern s'
are Sole Agents in N. S. Wales for
Wiard, and John Deere’s Ploughs
and Morgan’s Patent Harrows.
Note Our “Famous Low Prices”
fs
“Wiard” Road Contractors’ All Steel Plough. The Shares on
these Ploughs being subject to more wear and tear than any other
part of the Plough, the Forged Crucible Steel Point is made extra
heavy, is strong and durable, and can be forged or drawn by
any blacksmith.
We can recommend these Ploughs for heavy excavating and all
kinds of contractors’ and ‘Good Roads work, to builders and
users of road machines, and in all cases where great strength an
capacity are required. Weight, 3151 b. (XT 69). Price, £l7/7/6
Extra Wrought Steel Points 42/6
Same as No. 68 Plough, but with Solid Steel Beam.
a
XT 520— John Deere’s Red Jacket Ploughs —All Steel Con-
struction. Beam of special steel, high curve giving good clearance.
Mouldboard of genuine hardened soft-centre steel. Shares
crucible steel. Body> heavy one-piece steel frame, steel handles.
Cut 9in. 10in. 12 in.
Weight 891 b. 941 b. 1081 b.
Price . £6/15/- £8 £9/2/6
Single Standard Land Wheels, 12/6 extra. Knife Coulter, 10/6.
Disc Coulter, 30/-
DEERE
John Deere’s Steel Plough Shares. Genuine Deere shares are
never stencilled. The word DEERE is always stamped in the
steel on the under side. All sizes stocked. F 6, X 9, FlO, Ul2,
037; 251, 278, 295, 302, 303.
Procurable only at Anthony Horderns’.
Use Our Deposit-Purchase System
If it is more convenient, why not make use of this con-
venient buying method? Simply select the goods you
require, leave a small deposit, and pay the balance in
instalments to suit yourself. Goods are delivered when
fully paid for. The Cash Price only is charged. No interest.
df
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O.


THE WORLD HAS 4 NEW AND FINER MOTOR CAR
■■■
&
V :
; t-t
, .
V
-
mmiri
WWmmm
/Wv«r ■
—Bt.
SgSJOffiE '■'•l* f* ■
■ ■ ..
Mi
RHHH
■ m
: %■
m
mm
- ■" a
■ft
i /v, 11 l
.
C®
SHnu ;
m
* ■
mm
■s :<
■ 3:
RH
. : %vM
WmP?
A
PEOPLE who already have
driven the new Twin-
ignition-motored Nash
“400” have instantly realised
its superiority in performance,
to cars with older types of
motors.
In this new car they discover more power and speed than they will
ever care to use. They find a real thrill in the snap of twin-ignition
traffic getaway.
Has Nash accomplished these remarkable results by building a larger
motor —one with an enormous appetite for benzine? Or by building
a high-compression motor that needs special high-priced fuels?
The answer to both questions is, “NO.” Nash has developed new
principles of high-compression motor construction which create more
power, more speed, with ordinary benzine and less of it!
To-day, the twin-ignition, 12-spark plug, high-compression motor
powers all Nash “400” advanced and special-six models. Its results
are so remarkable as to clearly point the way to the future improve-
ment of other cars.
Tourers. Sedans
Standard Six from £375 £4so*
Special Six from £4BO £565*
Advanced Six from £63o* £62o*
*lmported body.
Distributors jor New South Wales: Distributors for Victoria and Tasmania:
Distributors for Queensland:
WILLSFORD, LTD.,
132-134 Phillip Street,
SYDNEY.
’Phones: 8W2291 (5 lines).
RICKARDS BROS. PTY., LTD.,
567-573 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE, Cl.
'Phone: F 3 I I 4.
PEELS, LTD.,
407-431 Stanley Street,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
’Phone: J 1561.
Distributors jor South Australia:
AUTOCARS, LTD.,
58-72 Flinders Street,
ADELAIDE.
’Phone: Central 5500.
Distributors for West Australia:
ERIC MADDREN MOTORS, LTD.,
996 Hay Street,
PERTH.
’Phones: 85610, B 7634.
y\ v
MASH 4##"
s
s
s


Melbourne Property
with Immense Potentialities
ft
>
mk.
m.
VIEW OF LOUNGE—ORIENTAL HOTEL.
Realising AUCTION THURSDAY, 14th MARCH,
at 3 o’clock,
at 16 Queen Street, Melbourne.
ORIENTAL HOTEL
FREEHOLD & FURNISHINGS
Furniture at Valuation—Cash on Possession.
Land 132 x 206. Access on Three Sides.
THE LARGEST AVAILABLE SITE IN COLLINS
STREET.
10 YEARS’ TERMS— —l/sth DEPOSIT.
Vendors’ Solicitors: Messrs. Gillott, Moir & Ahern,
395 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Illustrated Catalogues jrorn
PERCY HENRY PTY., LTD., 352 Collins Street, Melbourne,
SYDNEY ARNOLD BEST & CO., 1 6 Queen Street, Melbourne,
bYUNt UICTIONEERS IN CONJUNCTION.
“The Iron Mask” than you are of running
off “King Billy’s Skull.” “Mamba” to the
contrary notwithstanding, you, wrapped in
your august genius, seem to live beside us
not with us. Stephens, like myself, is a
blaekfellow. You will know what I mean.
Did you ever see my satires on “Peter the
Piccaninny” and “Black Sal''? The latter
appeared in the first number of Queensland
Punch. In last week’s Sydney Mail there
is a lyric headed “Beyond Kerguelen.
You are very kind in mentioning acquaint-
ances of other days; but Swan and yourself
are the only men in Victoria that I care to
know.
# * * *
2nd August, 1880.
Stephens [Brunton] is not satisfied with
my review. Somehow, the Queensland men
do not cotton to me. I detest envy.
* * * *
10th August, 18S0.
I never did and never will care for the
theatre and its cuckoo w0r1d....
It strikes me that I have seen the last of
my city life. My health is not wliat it used
to be. The effects of sorrow and sin are
writing characters of sad emphasis on me.
Bunton Stephens has acknowledged my re-
view His letter is satisfactory—poor
beggar! Like myself, he is terribly pressed
by this world’s work. He is a man of unmis-
takable genius.
Have you seen Swinburne s “Songs of the
Springtide”? If you have, let me know
without fail; get your estimate of them.
You know I admire Swinburne, and you
will therefore be surprised to hear that 1
cannot make out the meaning of this last
volume of his. It is all fog to me. Is it
because my intellect is failing, or is it. the
poet’s fault? Answer this without delay. I
am lost through want of books and a failing
memory. Is Swinburne diffuse and vague,
or am I ignorant and stupid?
* * * *
22nd August.
I cannot see how the Australasian’s
review of Brunton Stephens affects you.
What have you to do with purely Australian
literature?
As to myself, I have always been too
handicapped by circumstances to do any-
thing worth speaking of. The only volume
I ever published was written amidst distress
and dissipation. And I have been trying
to suppress it ever since. I quite agree with
the critic that Stephens is “our Australian
poet,” but, at the same time, I consider you
to be far and away the highest poet in Aus-
tralia. I can write a d—d good set of
pianoforte verses —nothing more.
* * * *
[This series will be concluded next week with a
longer batch of Kendall’s intimate letters.]
The Poetry of Hubert Church
It must be more than 30 years since The
Bulletin Newspaper Co. published a small
collection of poems by Hubert Church under
the title of “The West Wind,” and it is
16 years since the same author’s bigger
book, “Poems,” appeared: but even if he
gives us nothing more, his place among
Australasian poets is definitely established.
Though born in Tasmania, and now living
in Melbourne, Church has spent the greater
part of his life in Maoriland, and much of
his verse reflects the coloring and features
of that country. He writes frequently at
an elevation which must be called devo-
tional, though it is apart, even estranged,
from any formula of worship; and, while
there is no mere scepticism, neither is there
the rapt surrender of the mystic; he is too
self-aware (not self-conscious) for that; and
so his contemplation evokes a kind of pagan
incense of reverent words, a rich, half-
pantheistic communion. The liturgical
dignity of his lines on “Bowen halls, Mil-
ford Sound.” illustrate this manner at its
simplest. The opening lines are typical:
O waterfall that fallest to the sea,
Falling for ever to white virginals
Of olden melody! Thy voice I hear
In molten moments of the summer stars
When the great sun is dead in majesty.
Such writing rises naturally into exaltation,
as in the lines on “Mount Egmont,” which
are fraught with the echoes of the bordering
sea, or, as he calls it, “the sound that is
the ivy of the beach.” This exaltation, to
my mind, reaches its greatest sublimity, and
yet moves most freely, in a poem called
“Chant,” which appeared in a forgotten
journal years ago. As it is not included in
the collected “Poems” nor in any anthology,
I quote parts of it. This is the first stanza:
Here is a gulf of amber dropping down
Like the clear gleam of honey from a jar.
No wind moves any shallow to a frown ;
Hills sleep like an old turret clov’n with scar
Healed by the grey romances. Will a thought
A Greek maid scattered on the dappled sand
Come to my gleaming silence, who have sought
Nepenthe in this clean, untrodden land?
It goes on with the same grave and ex-
pectant serenity:
Power primitive is over all the beach;
The solemn cliff leans evermore to hear;
The cloud is like a stricken hart to reach
Seclusion of the hills.
The closing lines conform like the coda of
a symphony:
What is too pure for daily life I breathe,
What too magnificent for light I see;
Thoughts chastened like a sunlit cloud enwreathe
My soul, no more too deep, too full, for me.
Hubert Church does not often write in
an intimate mood, but something of the
sort occurs in “The Old Sandhills, Hobart,”
which is a memory of childhood. It must
be read as a whole to get its cumulative
retrospective charm, but here is a hint of
its magic:
Would God my heart renewed the shout
Of forty years ago, when Hope
Peeped over every curling wave
To find a mermaid in its fall,
And thought its glowing arch her cave,
And all its music but her. call.
Church’s lyrics have the same finished
ease. Some of them are known through
anthologies, but generally they are not so
well known as they deserve to be. “Rosa-
lind” and “Spring in New Zealand ’ are
favorites. Not only is the singing lilt of
them a charm in itself, but they tempt
examination of the ingenious delicacy of
their structure. Take, for example, “A
Toast,” finished like a triolet or a rondel,
and having the satisfying strictness of a
set form without its conscious artificiality;
or read that lovely little poem “Fidelis,
ending
The summer light it goes,
The bird away it flies,
And love is one w’ith those:
The rose that never dies
Never was a rose.
“Poems” contains several long works in
blank verse. One occupies a, third of the
book. There are beautiful lines on every
page, but I doubt if they quite justify the
length. Perhaps this is because we have
got out of the way of reading (let alone
writing) long poems. There are few people
nowadays who read poetry at all, and there
are still fewer who read it otherwise than
casually. These longer poems by Hubert
Church belong to a more patient generation
than ours, which, on the whole, is arbiter
of quite other things than elegance. Church
has written poems that I have known for
years and shall always want to remember.
The inference of such an estimate, critically
founded, is that the worth is there for
others too. That is as far as prediction can
go; for, as regards art, not only is immor-
tality a relative term like any other, but
the reputation of the immortals is simply
a way we have of being wise after the
event.
FREDERICK T. MACARTNEY.
A Satchel of Books
Alga', by Maurice Baring (Heinemann).
This precious little volume is called ‘an
anthology of phrases,” and has just 110 of
them, the longest about six lines and most
of them two or three, a whole page going
to accommodate each. Every phrase is pub-
lished in the original language —Russian,
Greek, Latin, French, Spanish and (one-
third) English. The display of erudition
is charming, though it seems a thousand
pities that Mr. Baring’s culture does not
embrace the exquisite language of the Mia
Mia blacks, from which we have culled for Ins
delectation that posy of fair words, “Koala
kookaburra piccaninny.”
Octavia Tlill, by Emily Southwood Maurice
(George Allen and Unwin). _ Ihe clnel
general interest in this collection of letters
revealing the early life of one of the leaders
of the Open Spaces and Housing movements
in Britain and Europe lies in some hitherto
unpublished letters of Ruskin. They are
merely the brief notes of a busy man to an
art student he is trying to help, but they
are, as letters have a way of being, very
revealing. The volume otherwise is only a
slight, though still an interesting, addendum
to the earlier “Life and Letters of Octavia
Hill,” a comprehensive account of the work
of this utilitarian reformer.
England in Shakspeare’s Day, by G. B.
Harrison (Methuen). The first to hand of
what promises to be an interesting series of
a new kind of “anthology” books. The object
is to recapture the social environment of con-
secutive periods of English history by string-
ing together prose and verse extracts from the
works of writers contemporary to the periods
—not historical writers, but letter-writers,
versifiers and others, mostly well known.
The work, judged by this example, is being
admirably done; the extracts are breezy
breaths of life blown into history s dry bones,
and they are so arranged that the reader
may feel he is living in the times and moving
with them. The series will include “From
Chaucer to Caxton,” “From Caxton to
Spencer.” “From Bunyan to Defoe,” ‘ln
Johnson’s Day” and “From Wordsworth to
Dickens.”
Last Changes Last Chances, by H. W.
Nevinson (Nisbet). This might be called
Vol. 11l of war-correspondent Nevinson s
autobiography. In the earlier volumes,
“Changes and Chances” and “More Changes
More Chances,” he told his interesting life
story, including bis war corresponding m
South Africa, the Balkans and elsewhere up
till August, 1014. Here lie carries the story
on through France and Gallipoli, through
the after-the-war period in English politics,
the Zinovieff letter, the general strike, and
back to Palestine with the Zionists. In
Gallipoli days he met C. E. W. Bean, than
whom, he asserts, there could be nobody
more capable of writing the great official
history upon which he is still engaged. Ot
this Australian he adds that “his industry
in collecting facts was inexhaustible, while
his military judgment and his ‘eye for coun-
try’ fitted him for a position as chief-of-
staff, or even higher command.”
Scotland's Heir, by Winifred Duke
(Chambers). An historical novel dealing
with “The 45,” when Charles Edward, the
Young Pretender, headed the last forlorn
hope of the Stuarts in an endeavor to
recapture Britain’s throne. The average
modern historical novel as turned out by
a woman is very much like a boarding-house
curry, a mawkish and unconvincing pretence.
This one is different. All the familiar
characters of that wild and hopeless enter-
prise are here. But the authoress, while
giving the story as it happened, concentrates
on the utterly worthless but —as she sees it
—entirely lovable character of the Young
Pretender. Like his father, whom Thack-
eray limned with such dreadful remorse-
lessness in “Esmond,” he could conceive or
keep faith with no man or woman. Both
he cajoled to his service and betrayed, and
when that was done shamelessly called
them back to him when occasion compelled
him. There have been few more worthless
characters in history than this Italianised
youth with rather remote Scottish con-
nections whom history of the sentimental
sort knows as “Bonnie Prince Charlie.”
There are few writers of fiction ■who have
had the courage to show him as the real
figure which his later life made it plain to
all he was. The author of this book has
done so, yet adds that she loves his memory.
She is welcome to it.
Answers to Correspondents.
Ifo notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Hame and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
S.R.C.: But gets us nowhere... .Cooma :
Let the two who are in it have the ring... .S.S.:
Amusing; but has no interest held in suspense, so
no good for a serial... .A. L.D.: Too thin....
E.H.D.: Printed acres about it. Whether it’s toler-
able or not depends on whether you have some sys-
tem of preferential voting or not. If you have, the
preliminary plebiscite is undemocratic and unneces-
sary. .. . Marinero: But what do you think about it
yourself? E.E.S.: Quite true; superfluous words
do get into The Bulletin. But you don’t know how
many are kept out!. .. .John S. J.: John, we suspect
that it’s all empty words. Now sit down, analyse
your feelings and try to express them. It s the
only way to poetry... .E.E.E.: Confused. Comb
your brains... .G.A.L.: “Enclosed is my first attempt
at poetry, which please criticise.” Blither.... Cross
Keys: So bright a dawn:—
The prettiest girl of the bunch I’ve known
Is Molly Malone;
In figure and feature and color
She’s out on her own.
So dark a dusk: —
She’s engaged to as bad a rottei
As you’d find anywheres;
But his father has money,
And that’s all she cares.
A.L.G.: No good. .. .Eileen R.: Some nice
church paper ought to be glad to get your verses.
Your ear is quite true... .E.8.L.: Sorry, but it is
too obscure W.D.F.: Nice feeling, but there is
no grip in it. ...J. W. Cairns: Tour Falls aie
damned William C.: You can write; now drop
your pale abstractions and write about something
real. And do try to be cheerful V.G.W.: An-
other kick and “Seasons” would have been through.
The other still has a chance... .1.A.A.: Though there s
too much length for depth in this one, we hope
we shall hear again.... Sheilah : “Lullaby is singing
itself to sleep in the office cradle V.F.E.: All
rhyme and no reason. Which doesn’t make it a
bad song; it only makes it a bad song for The B.
R.McG.: Anyhow, though we can’t print it all,
we like this homely touch:—
The dog’s bark comes from the kennel,
The cock crows a round or two—
The hens are quiet at the moment —
Another day is over, another duty through.
The postman cycles on the far road,
The milkman drives along,
They close their rounds with a kind word,
And one of them lilts a song.
That’s 100 p.c. better than most of these hifalutin
insincerities.... E. 1).: A dyspeptic sort of yarn....
M.1.K.: Not strong enough... .R.J.0.: Doesn’t kick
the beam W.N.R.: A bit too nebulous R.8.R.:
Sympathetic, but not quite suitable... .8.C.: No
frogskins for Mulga 8i11...-A.K.: Don t send any
more like that. Even a reader of manuscripts has
his feelings. . . .S.R.H.: Frank Harris no longer edits
Pearson’s, but he is still alive. His “My Life and
Loves” is banned in Australia, probably because it
isn’t a moving picture. .. .J.P.W.: Your Pearl is as
exciting as the liquor you toast her in.... R.A.E.:
Not enough fire in it to light any torch... .Midge
B.: The hooks on which they hang are too old.
. ...C.P.T.: Undistinguished... .J. Car: The gurgle
is the only thing in it that suggests Christmas.
... V.J.M.: Another light that failed... Homan Dry:
Quite right, it’s a cosy basket Work on;
but especially think 0n... .H.K.M.: Only when we
want to damn and blast the eyes of our staff will
we ask them to read such faint pencilling*....
P.M.H.: Pretty, with not much to snatch the atten-
tion. But we shall hang on lovingly to one.
M L • Apart from other crimes, you write on
both sides of the paper... .E.P.M.: Strong traces of
talent, but the thing is rather repulsive D.L.:
Quite good practice; now go and do better....
F.G.G.: You say your story had the neighbors laugh-
ing for six months. We wonder what at....N.U..
Very near C.F.8.: The answer is in the negative.
.. . . P.J.1.: “Jones” is ejected G.H.A.C.: The
Federate lost 300,000 soldiers in the U.S. Civil war,
184,000 dying of disease; no accurate record was
kept of the Confederate losses, but they are supposed
to have been slightly heavier Trib: No you
needn’t type your stuff; but write legibly and leave
plenty of space between the lines.... Esperance:
There arc 10 public holidays p.a. in Brisbane, St.
George's, St. Patrick’s, St. Andrew’s and St. David s
days are public holidays in Queensland (the Govern-
ment of which is so pious that it runs a lottery),
but nowhere else in Australia. England has seven
bank holidays p.a. ; the Stock Exchange is closed on
two additional days. .. .S.S.G.: William Archer Bed-
mond is member for Waterford in the Bail Lneann.
His mother was an Australian, but lie was born in
Ireland. He visited the Commonwealth before the
war. being then M.P. for Tyrone... .Tie: T. B.
Clegg’s novels are “The Love Child,” “The Wilder-
ness,” “The Bishop’s Scapegoat” and “Joan of the
Hills”; John Lane published them.... Steen : Victoria
returned a Yes majority at the first conscription
referendum but reversed it at the second. Westralia
and Tasmania were the only States m which the
Ayes had it on both occasions; Westralia voted
94,069 for and 40,884 against in 1916 and 84,118
for and 46,622 against in 1917. The A.1.1'. votes
were 72,399 for and 58,894 against in 1916; 103,789
for and 93,910 against in 1917 H.L.: “Luck’ not
in D.W.: The thin-spun thread is slit.. .. W.G.S. •
Plenty of gore and little more. . . .8.W.: A pair of
pants make poor material for romance.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.S.: Joke and drawing are unhappily mated....
G.J.: Your mermaids floated out on the ebb tide. .. .
E.T.8.: Don’t care for the robots posturing before
the dog kennels—if they are robots and kennels....
R.A.: Argument between bullocky and camel-driver
too lurid .. 1.D.: Refuse to commission artist to
“enlarge upon it”....V.8.: Leason did it better
years ag0....A.M.C.: What’s wrong with your art?
Nearly everything.... D.M.M.: And that old un is
still doing the rounds!... .P.C.: Study for a few
more years... .W.H.8.: The week’s worst....
E.W.0.D.: Cautioned... .F.0.D.: No c.o.d H.J.:
Would stand a chance if better drawn H.M.P.:
Might do in a catalogue. .. .A.D.: Underclothing is
smartly done, but it takes more than that to sell
a drawing H. 8.: (1) Already had that mixed
team. (2) Suggestions for political and other draw-
ings are welcomed and paid for if acceptable; they
need not be accompanied by any drawing.


sdf
FAMOUS
WINES
/•
m
is
si:
,
3
■HI
A.J
sa : ■
IIP"
fOP
m
fef
I--'
\
1
r
• V
. HI
• ■:
3
a.,: J
&Am e lasted Aettesi


The Bulletin
Vol. 50.—X0. 2559.
February 27, 1929.
HIS HOUR.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the Whits Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
214 George Street, Sydney.
Victoria; 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 249 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London: 86 Southampton Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, Z 1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
5 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, A 1 tus.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 8 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom: ioz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional ioz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: ioz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
THE 1929 .NOVEL COMPETITION .. ..2
A New Light on Kendall 2
THE POETRY OF HUBERT CHURCH .. 5
ANSWER'S TO CORRESPONDENTS .. .. !>
THE FRONT PAGE—By Leason 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
The Open Shop. 8
STEPPING-STONE TO ASIA —“Feng-Shui”.. 8
Wanted—Lighthouses that Talk .. 8
THEODORE’S CHALLENGE TO BRUCE .. 8
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL .. . . .. 9
POLITICS (with caricatures) .. .. .. 10
SOCIETY (witli drawings) .. .. .. 11, 12
PERSONAL (with caricatures) .. . . . . 14
POVERTY POINT 15
TOTI DAL MONTE IN MILAN 15
“ANOTHER DUD” —A Cartoon by Scorfleld .. 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..17
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS .. .. 18, 20
Automobile Finance .. ..18
D. MITCHELL & CO 18
VICTORIA PALACE, LTD 18
New Era Insurance .. .. 20
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 23, 25
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 31
PRIZES FOR FARMERS 28
SUPER. ON FALLOWS 28
Free Service Department 26
SMOKE-OH 32
“BRACKEN”—a Serial 58
“A Rogue in Amber” .. . • 34, 55
PEN AND PICTURE 37
NEW MOVIES AND TALKIES .. ..37
SPORTING (Illustrated) 39, 41, 42
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC 42
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 44
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 46
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 49
Two Complete Stories
“THE RESURRECTIONIST,” by J. H. M.
Abbott . . . . .. .. 51, 53
“THE LID,” by Kathleen A. Jenner .. 53, 57
“A ROGUE IN AMBER”
starts this week.
ffuffyxillelz/ii
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1929.
THE OPEN SHOP.
The Los Angeles Times recently published
a series of articles on industrial conditions in
the Commonwealth, and is convinced that
“Australia is suffering from union domina-
tion continued to its logical result—business
stagnation.” While protesting that it is not
for Americans “to suggest a remedy to Aus-
tralia,” the Times offers “a proven one—the
open-shop policy, which brought industrial
peace to Los Angeles and helped to make
it the city of most prodigious growth in re-
corded history.” In the United States, it
declares, “high wages, short hours and good
working conditions have been brought about
m spite of and not because of the trades-
union movement.” The high wages, short
hours and good working conditions are, it
seems, “widespread,” whereas “not one
worker in ten the nation over has any union
affiliations.” Moreover, “the most conspic-
uous prosperity is found in the open-shop
industries, such as automobile-building, and
the greatest poverty in the unionised textile
trades.”
If all this was true beyond the shadow of
doubt, it would be comforting; we should
know which way to turn. But some of the
facts of the case are by no means so agree-
able.
The rise of Los Angeles has certainly been
amazing. Formerly a bad second to San
Francisco among Californian cities, it caught
up to that place during the war, and by
July 1, 1925, as the “Statesman’s Year-Book”
attests, had 1,260,000 people to San Fran-
cisco’s 622,000. And while Los Angeles is
anti-union, San Francisco is (or was) a
union fastness; indeed, it used to be in the
clutches of a municipal Labor gang as rotten
as the one from which the N.S.W. Govern-
ment rescued Sydney by placing it under
Commission rule. Still, where general cir-
cumstances are favorable to the growth of
a city, it grows, whether shops are open or
closed. Sydney, plagued by the Trades and
Labor Council and plundered by Labor
aldermen, added 300,000 to its population in
eight years, while Los Angeles became great
with union delegates expelled. As a matter
of fact, the old Californian city’s progress
was not rapid until the moving-picture busi-
ness was established. And it is questionable
whether the moving-picture business can be
fairly claimed as a triumph for the open-shop
principle, since it obviously could not be
run according to trades-union rules. It is
questionable also whether non-unionism has
had very much to do with the prosperity of
the automobile indilstry or unionism with
the depression in the textile trades. The
British motor-car industry is doing remark-
ably well since it received some of the Pro-
tection which the American industry has
enjoyed for many years; and union-made
British light cars are even beginning to com-
pete in the U.S.A. with the products of the
open shop. As for the textile trades, they
have been suffering a bad time all over the
English-speaking world.
The open-shop system has hitherto been
only a name to many Australians. During
their working lives unionism, recommended
by past services and made compulsory in
many instances by Government regulations
or Arbitration Court awards, has been
supreme. But thousands of decent bread-
winners, victims of unspeakably bad union
leadership, have painful reasons for knowing
that the principle is at work once more. It
has arrived in what is left of the shipping
industry, owing to the mad folly of the
leaders of the Seamen’s Union; it has
arrived on the waterfront at Melbourne and
Adelaide, thanks to the fools' and knaves
who “repudiated the pernicious and vicious
Beeby award”; and it has arrived in the
sawmilling industry, thanks to the idiots who
repudiated the Lukin award and vilified
Judge Lukin, cheered on by Theodore,
Tunnecliffe and other leading Labor poli-
ticians. And it will certainly be extended
to other industries if union executives and
Labor leaders persist in taking up the atti-
tude that whatever the union does is right,
even though it be in contempt of laws and
the public interest—if, in short, they demand
that unionism shall be recognised as a re-
ligion, instead of a human institution tp be
tried by the test of service.
The Bulletin has no love for the open
shop. It has on the other hand a very sin-
cere affection for the trades-union, which
has wrought incalculable good for the Aus-
tralian workman whatever it may have done
for the workman anywhere else. But the
trades-union cannot live on its past per-
formances. If fools and political rogues and
knaves have turned a blessing into a curse,
then it must go. Theodore and others are
crying in the wilderness that this political
enemy and that are “out to smash the
unions.” For the moment they will all
deny it; the time has not yet come for
the trades-union to be regarded as beyond
redemption. But let the leaders be warned
—if they are not wiser, the time will come
when that will be the accepted policy of a
very great number of those who love Aus-
tralia too well to allow any body of men
to crucify it.
A STEPPING-STONE TO ASIA.
When the air route to Europe is a com-
monplace, Bali will become more familiar to
Australians. It is a stepping-stone between
Darwin and the Straits, and one of the
scenic and ethnic curiosities of the world.
After being stationary at a few thousands
under a long line of native rulers, the
small island’s population is now, under the
-Dutch, approaching the million mark, and is
rapidly increasing. Financial stability has
been the most important factor in produc-
ing this change. Before the Dutch intro-
duced security the native put his earnings
in his sock and buried the sock in a rice-
field. Now he takes the sock to the Volks-
bank in Singaradja. This bank has been
operating for 12 years, and has done much
to develop agriculture and industry and to
rescue the Balinese from the embraces of
the Chinese and Arab money-lenders. It is
guaranteed by the Government, and the
Resident is chairman. The headquarters
are the Centrale Kas at Batavia, a Govern-
ment concern which borrows from the pub-
lic in wealthy Java, pays 6 p.c. for the money
and lets it out to the native at 15 p.c. The
profits are distributed amongst various
charities. Advances are made to the native
for the purpose of developing his sawah
(ricefield), planting and harvesting coffee,
buying fresh land and redeeming land that
has been sold—even for buying fresh wives
and burning widows (though widows are
now only burned in effigy).
The rate of interest, 15 p.c., seems high,
but it is sheer philanthropy compared with
what the native expects to pay the Arab
or Chinese Shylock, who regularly charges
him four or five per cent, per month and
has been known to get as much as 400 per
cent, per annum. The longest term of a
loan is four years, repayable in four instal-
ments. In event of default the debtor’s
land is sold, but he is given plenty off lati-
tude before drastic steps are taken.
Balinese industry is in a sense communal,
every man having a share in the land re-
served to his village, but he gets no food
from it unless he grows it. European ex-
ploitation is not encouraged. Government
grants few concessions to foreigners and
does not favor leasing them land for coffee
or other cultivation. The economic condi-
tions for the natives are so wholesome that
they are already increasing so quickly that
immigration from North to South is
urgently necessary. The North grows insuf-
ficient rice for its own consumption, while
the South grows more than it needs; yet the
communications are as yet so primitive—
no railways, and bridges built only for light
traffic—that the southern surplus cannot be
transferred; instead the South exports to
Java and the North imports from the same
direction.
The natives have plucked up heart after
a series of bitter and exhausting wars with
their foreign rulers, and now seem to appre-
ciate the benefits of Dutch control. They
are no longer subject to the extreme
tyranny of the Hindu caste system, which re-
quired the death of any woman marrying
into a lower caste—the Dutch have miti-
gated the penalty to banishment, and with
an unexpected touch of humor select the
same island for the guilty couple’s term of
ostracism. The Balinese have none of the
servility of the Javanese. They look you
in the face like free men. Although until a
decade or so ago half the island remained
unsubdued, the Government maintains only
200 Javanese and Menado gendarmes in the
whole of Lombok and Bali.
There are plenty of signs of a strong
national spirit, though it is not of the bomb-
throwing variety which has begun to show
itself in Java. The women stride likq queens
along the shady roads, swinging their hips
and balancing great burdens on their masses
of untidy black hair. They were all bare-
breasted until a controleur’s wife pointed
out that it was indecent. Now they incon-
siderately lower a veil across their bosoms
when the white man approaches. They are
the grand-daughters of the women who re-
garded it as an honor to be burned along
with the bodies of their defunct husbands,
and the daughters of the women who gave
the Dutch armies so much trouble with
their puputans. The puputan was the last
proud gesture of a defeated race, when every
woman and child would walk out of a fort
with their menfolk, charge the Dutch and
be shot down to the last person. The future
of the Balinese appears to be to go on mul-
tiplying until they overcrowd their island.
But no colonial Government was ever
known to stay its benevolent activities on
account of a distant dismal future.
Sweet scents assail one everywhere, refresh-
ing after the noisomcness of the cities of
Java. The graveyards are planted with the
fragrant sumbodja, the women’s hair is re-
dolent of melatti flowers and even the mar-
kets smell more of blossoms than of dried
fish and prawn curry.
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Wanted—Lignuiouses that Talk.
Ten days ago the Kanowna, with 300-odd
people aboard, struck a rock off Wilson’s
Promontory, and it w r as only luck that she
did not sink in a few minutes. It was also
only luck that the Mackarra was but 20
minutes astern of her and was able to grope
her way through fog and rain and rescue
the passengers. Later another vessel arrived
and carried off the crew just before the ship
took her final dive. All this time, accord-
ing to the official account, the light on the
Promontory, one of the most powerful in
Australia, was absolutely invisible.
There are several danger points on the
coast similar to Wilson’s Promontory. Thqy
jut out across the track of vessels steaming
between the capitals, and since most of them
break up on close inspection into rocks and
islands, it is quite safe in clear weather to
go close enough to give the passengers a
topic of conversation. It is human nature,
too, for shipmasters who pass these points
month after month to lay a course which is
likely to be approved by their owners as
being the shortest and therefore the most
economical. Then comes a dirty night and
perhaps an unexpectedly strong current, and
a wreck happens.
It is time to recognise the fact that the
lighthouse, as at present constituted, is as
out-of-date as a naked candle in a coal-
mine. A light like that on the Promontory
may be visible in fine weather for 26 miles,
yet in thick weather it may be of as little
use as if the keeper had forgotten to start
it. In fact, it may be worse than useless,
because its presence may induce shipmasters
to grope in its direction in order to get their
bearings. On the other hand, wireless, elec-
trically speaking, is visible through any-
thing, even a mountain. A directional radio
set at the Promontory and the simple re-
ceiving component on the Kanowna would
have told the master where he was if the
fog had been as thick as the head of our
reptile contemporary.
♦
Theodore's Challenge to Bruce.
The Bruce-Page Government at the last
election and the one before that went to
the polls on a “law and order” issue and
came back each time with what it has
claimed as a mandate to enforce the law.
It should not be necessary to give any
Government in a British community a man-
date to administer the law. The oath
sworn by every member of Parliament when
he takes his seat was framed to obviate
any such necessity. Parliament may make,
alter or repeal laws within the limits of its
constitution, but neither it nor the adminis-
tration can properly regard the enforcement
of existing laws as a matter for question or
debate. However, Mr. Bruce professed him-
self unable to enforce the law without
additional legislation. That additional legis-
lation is now on the Statute Book.
When E. G. Theodore, on a public plat-
form in Sydney, supported, advocated and
encouraged a defiance of the law, as repre-
sented by the decree of the Federal Arbi-
tration Court in the timber industry, he
told his audience that he was doing an
illegal thing and was liable to prosecution.
A few days later, when rumors, mostly
manufactured in newspaper offices, were
circulated to the effect that he would be
prosecuted, he is reported to have laughed
scornfully and said that of all the stupid
things the stupid Bruce-Page Government
had done, that, if it happened, would prove
to be the stupidest.
E. G. Theodore is neither an ignorant nor
an impetuous man. He for many years
enjoyed a substantial salary as Premier of
Queensland, and he is reputed to have in-
vested his savings wisely and profitably.
If anyone assaulted E. G. Theodore and
stole his presumably well-filled pocket-book
he would not lose much time in enlisting
the aid of the law to recover his property.
It may therefore be assumed that when
Mr. Theodore publicly challenges the
Federal Government to prosecute him for
what he himself has described as a breach
of a Federal law, he does so in the belief
either that he is so big as to be above the
law, or that a fine or a term of imprison-
ment would help to convince the Labor
cohorts that, although wealthy, he is willing
to make himself a martyr in their cause.
Either way, Mr. Bruce, unless he takes
action to uphold the law or to prove that
it has not been broken—which is a question
over which Judges and K.C.’s may be
allowed to squabble—is up against it. If
Theodore is prosecuted there may be the
very deuce of a Labor upheaval, and if
he isn’t there may be a worse one, due to
a belief in strike-fomenting circles that,
Bruce doesn’t dare to enforce the laws his
“mandate” called for. Theodore’s challenge
is direct and unmistakable, and the answer
must be equally clear and convincing if
Federal legislation of any sort is to be
regarded as more than a feeble joke.
+
Australia’s Brightest Hope.
The best outlook for Australia lies in its
manufactures, with the pastoral industry a
good second. Agriculture has good pros-
pects if the community can raise a lot of
new raw materials, including flax and cotton,
for its own use. Wheat does not hold out
large hopes. By the use of improved
machinery, coupled with fertilisers, the pro-
duction of the grain may be largely in-
creased; but this increase does not imply
greater employment. On the contrary, em-
ployment, which has been shrinking steadily
in this industry, is likely to shrink still
further with the development of farm imple-
ments. Mining relies on the chance of
finding new deposits and on learning how
to work both new and old deposits cheaply
enough to struggle with competition, other-
wise the outlook is poor. But manufactur-
ing has held its own, not as it should have
done, the dreadful collection of imports
being evidence of that, but well in compari-
son with other industries, and very well in
view of the activities of the Piddingtons,
to say nothing of the Gardens.
In the very essential matter of providing
employment Federal statistics show as fol-
lows:
Workers Employed.
In Agricultural,
Pastoral,
Dairying and In Manu- Surplus in Pri-
Mining Work. faetures. mary Industries.
1907 493,513 248,859 244,654
1917 448,875 321,670 127,205
1927 , 480,586 467,247 13,339
In another year or two it is probable that
manufactures, regarded as a source of em-
ployment, will equal all the great primary
industries combined, and then leave them
behind. If they can’t compete in the foreign
market there is plenty for them to do, and
plenty of millions to be saved by pushing
non-essential imports, which are the prime
source of the Commonwealth’s financial
griefs, out of our own market.
These are some more official figures:—
Gross Value op Production.
Agricultural, Pas-
toral, Dairying,
Mining and Primary Pro-
Sundries. Manufacturing, duction Surplus.
1907 £129,709,608 £93,549,165 £36,160,443
1917 213,842,307 206,386,646 7,455,661
Manufacturing
Surplus.
1927 323,239,503 408,692,83# 85,453,335
One of the most progressive manufacturing
industries, if not the most progressive in-
dustry, has to deal with “metal works,
machinery, etc.,” and the room for expan-
sion there is still almost unlimited.
There was actually a much smaller per-
centage of the population engaged on pro-
ductive industry in 1927 than in 1907 (pro-
ductive industry being the creation of goods
which are capable of being sold in payment
of the national liabilities, and not industrial
agitation, company promotion or the sale
of allotments), which is a lamentable state
of affairs. If manufacturing had stagnated
like the great primary industries instead of
progressing, the position would have been
unthinkable.
♦
Suppose It Turned Out Differently.
“If the British flag is hauled down in North
America, possibly the nations of Europe will be
enraged by the bloated prosperity and airs of
superiority of ‘the man who won the war,’ and will
combine to draw Shylock’s teeth.” — Dean Inge, in
“England.”
Some outspoken Britons of the Dean
Inge brand have dropped the threadbare
fiction that war between Britain and its
German, Irish and miscellaneous U.S.
neighbor is “impossible” and “unthinkable’
and all the rest. They say that war is
possible with anybody, and that people in
the republic talk war and warlike pre-
parations with less disguise than those of
any other white nation, which seems to
make it especially possible in their case.
Armed strife is a reality, and realities can


THE NEW WAY.
TRADE-UNION BOSS: “Here, you, get your horses in the plough and start work.
Are you going to let us starve ?”
FED-UP FARMER: “Work? Why work when you chaps can do miracles by Act
of Parliament?”
bear to be talked about. The old “hush-
hush” attitude belongs to the days when
women wore crinolines and 91b. weight of
unventilated clothing, and when the ex-
hibition of their legs on the beach would
have been a greater sin than another
Napoleonic disturbance.
If the calamity came which so many of
J. Bull’s Transatlantic brethren make few
bones about mentioning, and if it ended
by Uncle Samuel ceding Alaska to Canada.,
and forgiving John Bull all his war-debts,
and paying an indemnity himself, it would
naturally be in the nature of a surprise.
But most things are possible. The republic
has about 100,000,000 white people, very
mixed. The British Empire has about
60,000,000, not so mixed, and many millions
of ..colored people, some of whom like
fighting, while some don’t. At the be-
ginning of the disturbance J. Bull would
naturally cease all debt payments, which
would ease his finances, and would cease
paying vast sums for U.S. goods. He
might possibly find allies who would also
like a clean receipt from Uncle and the
chance to collect something from the
richest nation on earth.
And what are the chances otherwise? In
the course of the Great Disagreement it
became obvious that G. Washington’s
countrymen learn up-to-date warfare and
the apparatus thereof with difficulty. In
fact, their contributions in the line of
apparatus were remarkably limited for a
nation which has so high a reputation for
the inventive faculty. Its army wasn’t any-
thing like a first-rate force even when the
war collapsed, despite all its intensive
training, whatever it might have become
in time. And, again, if a calamitous
row w 7 ere to break out the ultimate victory
might be decided by a big and etrly marine
action; and the U.S. fleet hasn’t been
tested in a single serious fight, for the
little affair with Spain didn’t count.
Yes, there is room for some very great
surprises.
Take Care of the Talkies!
“Ezra”: Science has put into the hands of
man many inventions that he has not
handled to his betterment. But the Talkies
—surely here, with their vast possibilities,
careful handling can be assured.
Yet what are the present signs? In a
theatre in an Australian capital, more
lavish than ever Shakspeare dreamed of,
was offered last week a programme as diver-
sified and as egregious as any vaudeville
show. One shudders to think that, under
Talkie influence, the accent of- the American
gentleman who spoke with his hat on from
the steps of Congress might become grafted
upon our present version of English.
It was a thrill, of course, to hear the
King’s voice in the speech he broadcast
at Newcastle-on-Tyne, where, it is said, the
recording apparatus was attached unbe-
known to him, but to the reproduction of
which he sportingly assented. But, though
the Royal voice is really a very fine and
clear instrument, his Majesty spoke as
through a funnel.
Then, of course, the News Budget needs
historical precision. Even if it is believed
in U.S.A. that Chateau Thierry was com-
parable with Waterloo, the patient British
public and A.I.F. should not be expected
to swallow this, particularly in view of the
written view of one Ludendorf that Ger-
many’s black day coincided with the date
of a certain offensive in August, 1918. A
study of the complete war —not from “when
the war clouds gathered in 1917’’ —should
be compulsory to all producers, whether
Talkie or Movie, who utilise this great
drama. If they err the Censor should ban
them for historical inaccuracy.
Serious thought should be given to the
exploitation of the Talkies in the right
sense. It will have many uses other than
as entertainment. But for its principal pur-
pose, opening a new era in all that is finest
in the world of scenic nature, music and
the spoken word, bringing happiness and
betterment to the humblest—in this we
should have the benefit of the best brains.
We need to guard this new possession most
jealously and see that, unlike the movie, it
is not wholly prostituted to money-making.
♦
Law and Liberty.
As a matter of pure theory, in British law
an accused person is deemed to be innocent
until proved guilty. In practice the prin-
ciple is subject to modifications and excep-
tions. To detain a suspected person in gaol
is inconsistent with a presumption of inno-
cence. As to proof, a literal interpretation
of the theory would rule out convictions on
circumstantial evidence. But the principle
does leaven British legal practice, and it is
a good one, and it should not be whittled
down without very grave consideration. It
is therefore surprising to find an experienced
Sydney S.M. calling for an amendment of
the licensing law so that in cases brought
by the police against hotel licensees, the
onus of proving innocence should lie on the
defendant.
That the licensing law is being broken
every day of the week may be true; and it
cannot be doubted that the police, owing
to the widespread nature of such breaches
and the difficulties of obtaining evidence,
find it hard to get convictions. But it would
hardly be possible to introduce the prin-
ciple that an accused person is guilty until
proved innocent into the Licensing Acts
without pervading the general magisterial
outlook with the heresy, which would mean
that public respect for the law, already at
a low ebb with respect to certain Statutes
—the Arbitration Acts, for instance—would
be further weakened. Not a few of the dif-
ficulties that have attended the administra-
tion of the arbitration system may be traced
to the peculiarity in the constitution of tri-
bunals which allows them to depart from
established legal principles, particularly in
regard to the law of evidence. There is
enshrined in British Common Law a rich
treasury of safeguards against encroachments
upon the liberty and privileges of a free
people, and experience in all parts of the
Empire has proved that the whittling away
of those safeguards, with however good in-
tentions, is a dangerous proceeding.
_—
The South-to-North Railway.
Dear Bulletin, —Mr. Killen (B. 20/2/’29)
says that it is absurd for me “to suggest that
the Barkly Tableland is a myth or is situated
in Queensland.” I did not suggest anything.
I said that certain maps, which I speci-
fied, placed the tableland in Queensland or
partly there. In view of the assertion that
this tableland is capable of carrying
7,000,000 or 8,000,000 sheep, or as many as
all South, Central and Northern Australia
combined, I took the view that it was re-
markable that fhe wonderful locality wasn’t
well enough known to prevent such quaint
mistakes.
As regards the plateau being “clearly
marked and defined,” that is just what the
“Official Year Book” says it is not, and what
the cartographical confusion suggests it is
not. It is specifically mentioned as being
well defined only on the northern edge, is
called a “tableland” between inverted com-
mas as if to imply doubt, and the probable
height is given as 1100 feet. The height
doesn’t suggest a wonderful sheep-growing
climate, though doubtless the Tableland is
a desirable locality in its own way.
There is nothing save violent assertion in
Mr. Killen’s statement that the South-to-
North railway will cost millions “without
benefit to anybody except the very few set-
tlers in the locality.” It seems on a par
with the legend about the sheep-carrying
capacity of the Tableland. And the assur-
ance that “it is also absurd to estimate the
annual loss on the [South-to-North] rail-
way, if completed, at £3lO per mile, which
was the loss in 1927 on the two incomplete
fragments,” because it must necessarily be
a great deal more than that, is also his say-
so and nothing more. There is a prejudice,
possibly an ignorant one, in favor of finish-
ing a big work in the hope that it will
earn more and lose less when complete than
when half-done.
Anyhow, Mr. Killen recommends the
construction of a “trafficable motor road”
across instead. Trafficable motor roads
sometimes cost more than railways both to
construct and to repair (an item entitled
“Roads or Railways?” almost alongside Mr.
Killen’s outpouring deals with this sub-
ject), and the trafficable motor is costly to
run (at least mine is), and it requires im-
ported fuel; it leaves the road and commits
suicide in the ditch if the driver takes his
eye off the track, and consequently isn’t so
handy for night travel, and it is a cramped
contraption for the shifting of cattle in
wholesale lots. Still, quite a number of
people who want to do Middle Australia
out of its railway have proposed this costly
substitute.
I don’t know whether the size and import-
ance of the work of supplying Australia
with its first transcontinental line (the one
which hugs the coast to Kalgoorlie isn’t
transcontinental) has brought out a streak
of hesitancy in the national character, or
whether there is nothing amiss save the dis-
like of spending money on the development
of a Federal province. Anyhow, among the
alternatives which have been mentioned
have been a West Coast railway to connect
the south of Westralia with the north; an
east-to-west route to join Townsville with
some seaside place in Westralia; a long
track from Bourke (N-S.W.) through West
Queensland to Camooweal or thereabouts—
and, of course, the motor-car. So far no one
seems to have suggested a gas balloon or
push-bike service.—J.E.
O
Decentralising Wool.
The hollowness of most of the voices which
have supported the political parrot call for
Decentralisation has been made obvious by
the storm of protest and misrepresentation
which has greeted the attempt of a small
but sturdy company to establish wool sales
at Newcastle. The clamor has come from
press and people, and centralised interests
have worked overtime to stifle the effort at
its inception. Apparently no other daily
paper than the Newcastle Morning Herald
has had the wish to secure such definite
statements as were made during the first
week of December by Messrs. Buttenshaw,
Brtjxner and Thorby to the effect that they
were whole-heartedly behind the movement.
Even papers which pose as the official organs
of pastoral bodies, and even pastoral
bodies themselves, have been more inter-
ested in advertising the unofficial boycott of
Newcastle sales by wool-buyers than in
combating it.
The facts in favor of this piece of decen-
tralisation are chiefly these: —
(1) 360,000 bales of wool are. annually
trucked through Newcastle.
(2) This wool weighs 60,000 tons.
(3) It is worth £10,000,000 at about the
average of prices current for the last few
seasons.
(4) It costs the community £200,000 to
haul it past the deep-sea port, on which
millions of the people’s money has already
been spent.
(5) Shipment of produce from the com-
municated port nearest the seat of pro-
duction was one of Sir George Buchanan’s
axioms.
(6) The same principle has been laid
down by nearly every political economist
who has had pretensions to be worth study-
ing-
(7) The establishment of a wool-selling
centre at Newcastle will mean the establish-
ment of a wheat-selling centre also. This
will mean another saving of £2QO,OCO.
(8) The facilities for immediate use are
present at the port.
Incidentally, most of the overseas people
who are resisting the effort to do this thing
for Newcastle (N.S.W.) were stout sup-
porters of . a movement to do exactly the
same thing for Hull (Eng.). Decentralisa-
tion is good and proper and desirable when
applied to England, but bad and improper
and quite undesirable when applied to Aus-
tralia !
4
New Guinea Administration.
The bitter feeling between the New Guinea
Administration and the non-official section
of the European population lias received
another undesirable advertisement. The
Administration proposed to dispatch a party
of natives from the technical schools to
Australia for education in handicrafts. The
newly-formed Citizens’ Association at
Rabaul, which rose from the failure of those
in authority to deal with the recent native
stop-work meeting, at once sent a cable to
the Federal authorities strongly opposing
this. That the Minister responsible has
agreed to cancel the arrangement is a sig-
nificant indication that the Canberra bureau-
cracy is at last beginning to realise how
deep-seated is the disaffection prevailing in
the Mandated Territory. There is to be
an inquiry into the whole matter of the
Administration by one who was an Adminis-
trator himself some years ago, so nothing
need be said about that side of the question
for the present.
The fact that the present situation is the
culmination of years of complaint on the
part of the men on whom most of the work
of developing the Territory falls, as apart
from the overloaded official staff, cannot be
glossed over. Neither can the fact that
until recently their representations have
been treated with utter indifference, both
in the Territory and in Australia.


a*L • reserve
ilorv© Velsky
■mrrfwm \
RED, WHITE and BLUE
WHISKY
Gaelic Special Reserve
DEARER
BUT BETTER
ORME, KEIGWIN & CO., LTD.
269-271 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN AGENTS: JAMES HENTY & CO., 499 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: B. SEPPELT & SONS, LTD., 444 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
f*f' r
Gfi.EL !q
IBS
iS*9 /
tokiat\d
r- 1
POLITICAL
POINTS
Watt was present at the Nationalist party
meeting which so emphatically confirmed
Bruce in his leadership, but Hughes failed
to arrive from Sydney. It was explained
afterwards that he had missed the train by
30 seconds. That’s cutting things finer; he
missed the ’bus by six years.
A. C. Willis, who lias done very well for
himself in this country, and E. G. Thco-
dore, who has become
a rich investor, went
along to the Sydney
Town Hall the other
night to support the
latest mad rebellion
against Common-
wealth industrial law.
“The Arbitration
benches have been
packed!” shouted
Theodore, whose party
in Queensland ap
pointed a Labor Pre-
mier and a union sec-
retary to an arbitra-
tion bench of three.
“Whatever the law
may say,” shouted
Willis, “we must win
this fight.” A day or
two later it was given
out that the S. Aus.
A. C. Willis.
section of the strikers had turned the strike
down, but that 15 per cent, of them had lost
their jobs to free laborers. In short, hundreds
of timber workers have been ruined by crimi-
nally foolish leadership, as thousands of
waterside workers were—and the comfortable
Theodores and Willises will trade on their
misery.
W. H. Lloyd, an A.I.F. General, won the
Parramatta by-election; but the Nationalist
vote, which reached 9236 at the general elec-
tion, fell to 7099, whereas the Labor vote
went up from 5668 to 6258. Obviously many
toilers still believe that their wages will be
reduced as a result of the child-endowment
scheme; and still more middle-class people
are tired of being taxed up to the eyes to
keep that and other Lang measures on the
Statute Boob. If the Bavinshaws don’t
drop child endowment they are certain to
be licked next year.
Grandiose things are being done by State
authorities in the roadmaking line since the
Commonwealth Government fed the boom
with £2,000,000 a year. The N.S.W. Main
Roads Board got rid of £3,365,600 last year.
How many miles of road were constructed
isn’t stated, but in three years the board has
spent £7,600,000 on 1456 miles of road and
78 bridges. The direct contribution made by
motorists to the 1927-28 expenditure
was £1,337,287. The Bruce-Pages supplied
£768,000 —and wound up with a deficit of
£2,630,000.
The Prime Minister’s proposal to adjourn
Parliament for a week and chase Parliamen-
tarians off the Federal Territory so that
hotel space might be available for a Rotary
Conference was about his worst freak. The
Rotaries have met in many places, but pro-
bably never in a capital so ill-provided that
the Premier proposed to turn legislators out
of their beds for lack of ordinary accommo-
dation.
At the Melbourne meetings of the Peace-in-
Industry Conference nothing was done, but
there was a good deal of conversation. It
was remarked that an exceedingly friendly
spirit was manifested, and that reconcilia-
tion prevailed all over the shop. But when
proceedings were resumed in Sydney it was
announced on behalf of the Red push that
nothing would be done or considered unless
all the laws against illegal strikes and
breaches of awards were abolished, all free
laborers and non-strikers were sacked, and
all persons, including Jacob Johnson, who
had got into trouble through breaking the
industrial laws, were released. So the only
thing that was settled was the conference.
The one bright feature of the Peace-in-
Industry Conference was Commonwealth
Statistician Wickens’s
review of industrial
progress. Wickens
said that between 1907
and 1927 the number
of factories in Aus-
tralia had increased
from 12,000 to 21,600,
and the number of
factory-workers from
269.000 to 467,000,
while manufacturing
industries had added
£102,000,000 to the
value of production in
1927 as compared with
£38.000,000 in 1907.
And, great as this
advance has been, it
could be doubled or
trebled in 10 years if
the nation did without
C. H. .Wickens.
superfluous borrowing and imports and
shipped all its wild men to Russia.
The Repatriation Department recently
haled into court a Sydney woman who has
been drawing a pension for the children of
a Digger who was killed, although she was
not his lawful wife. The mother has drawn
over £BOO to keep the kiddies, lived a quiet
respectable life, and is still keeping them.
It was a case for a blind eye; but the depart-
ment not merely dropped the pension but
got an order for the refunding of the amount
in full at the rate of 10s. per fortnight.
Politicians like Prowse and Gregory are
slow at reading the signs of the times. The
people of England have a much wider
acquaintance with Freetrade than Prowse
and Gregory have, and they are growing un-
disguisedly tired of the old god. There isn’t
a single prosperous manufacturing industry
in the Cold Country which isn’t “safe-
guarded,” the new word for protected, and that
explains their prosperity. Another cause for
thought is. that the Yankees, after 101 years
of Protection (the “Tariff of Abominations,”
as Uncle’s Freetraders called it, was dated
1828), are seizing more of it, especially in
the matter of wool from Australia. They
say it has made them the richest folk on
earth, and they want to be richer still.
Edgar, M.L.C., is moving for the stopping
of all trams and trains in Victoria on Sun-
days, his argument being that there are
enough churches in every suburb for wor-
shippers to get there by walking. Unfor-
tunately for the cause of a tramless and
trainless Sabbath, the Railway Department
has just put on some extra Sunday services
and the rush for them nearly broke the axles.
Whether the travellers are making for the
churches isn’t recorded, but their general
direction is the hills and the beaches. Clapp,
faced with a mounting deficit, has announced
that he is prepared to put on extra trains as
the demand increases.
. February 19 was a busy day in financial
circles. The Federal Treasurer announced
another loan of £7,000,000 (a local one this
time), which is treading fast on the heels
of the last London operation. And the City
of Brisbane reluctantly accepted from the
Government and gave its lOU for £lOO,OOO
“to relieve unemployment.” It refused a
similar offer before because it didn’t know of
a job in which it could invest loan money
“to relieve unemployment” without heavy
loss, but under pressure it gave way. Bris-
bane has already £17,000,000 of municipal
debt, or £56 per inhabitant. A N.S.W. mem-
ber who recently looked in there said that
he found a local owner who paid £lOOO of
municipal tax per year on property which
would have cost him about £lOO in Sydney.
That was at least a kindly remark to make
about the Harbor City. It doesn't get many
kindnesses these days.
L. F. Giblin, who has been Labor politi-
cian, soldier and statistician since 1915, and
is now to be a Uni.
professor, has an-
noyed the Elijah Pog-
rams and Jefferson
Bricks of Hobart and
Launceston by sug-
gesting that the Speck
should reconcile itself
to plain living and
high thinking, the
natural resources hav-
ing been exaggerated.
He was inveighing
against the policy of
mortgaging the house
and the furniture and
the salary to back
horses, which is what
the national borrowing
policy amounts to on
a vast scale; and the
politicians are especi-
ally angry with him.
So Giblin goes to Mel-
bourne pursued by the
roar that he is “dis-
loyal” to the State of
L. F. Giblin.
which he is a distinguished son.
The bosses of the Federated Carters and
Drivers struck a snag when they tried to
withdraw a case from the Commonwealth
Arbitration Court on the ground that the
Council of Trades-Unions had declared it
black, but they furnished some valuable in-
formation as to what they regard as the
whole duty of unionists. At least, their sec-
retary, one Cheney, did. “What have you
to say about your sympathetic strike?” asked
Lukin, ,T.
Cheney: “Our members stand for unionism. We
are a component part of the A.C.T.U., and we have
to obey a decision of that body.”
Lukin : “Whether it is against the law or not ?”
Cheney: “Most certainly.”
A similar attitude on the part of a section
led to the U. S. Civil War.
Apropos the timber industry award, which
the union bosses haughtily put in the waste-
paper basket, saying that they only take
notice of favorable decisions, the last really
stirring event in the tree line happened when
Justice Higgins handed out a Federal award,
granting a respectable increase of pay, and
dating the increase hack 18 months . This
back action represented a fine of well over
£lOO,OOO, and the news came as an avalanche
on many small employers. The union
accepted Higgins’s gift and asked for more.
The present trouble arose because the Court
put all the timber-workers on a 48-hours
basis instead of half working 48 hours and
the rest 44. This was only done after an
official examination of the employers’ books.
But the Court didn’t make the change re-
trospective for 18 months, or even IS days, on
the ground that there were large arrears to
be worked off. Had it done so the revolution
might have started.
Nelson, the voteless member for the North-
ern Territory, arrived at Canberra three
months after it was known that he had
beaten his two opponents hands down, and
naturally expected to be sworn in imme-
diately. He was told that it could not be
done, as the writs would not arrive from
Darwin for another six weeks. So he had to
sit in the strangers’ gallery until his dis-
ability was removed by special legislation.
And it is getting on for 20 years since the
Commonwealth took over the Northern Terri-
tory on the solemn undertaking that it
would build a railway to Darwin!
A resolution from Launceston:—
This branch of the A.L.P. expresses its indig-
nation at the action of the South Aus. Government
in importing coal which is produced under shocking
conditions, as declared by the Prince of Wales.
But what struck the Prince most wasn’t the
conditions under which coal was produced,
but those under which it wasn't produced,
including the case of men who had been out
of work for three years. This is largely
because exports fell from. 100 million pounds’
worth in 1920 to 46 millions’ worth in 1927,
and the slump in local industry reduced the
local demand. The S.A. Government isn’t
wholly accursed if it helps the British miner
with an order or two, especially if it is
driven by high Australian prices and lack
of money.
The Prime Minister has renewed his offer
of Is. per ton bounty on Newcastle coal-sent
to other States or exported overseas, pro-
vided the N.S.W. Government and the mine-
owners will contribute towards a total reduc-
tion of ss. per ton. which they are willing
to do, and provided the miners will do their
bit, which their leaders have always refused
to do. Also, to the vast relief of the Labor
party, which can’t think up a policy, he
has agreed to appoint a Royal Commission.
The Constitution allows for a Federal bounty
on the production of coal, all Australian coal
being tx-eated alike, and it allows for a
Federal bounty on the export of coal. But
export means despatch to foreign parts, not
from one State to another or from one street
to another. Five of the States can't be ex-
pected to enthuse about contributing to an
all-round coal bonus while N.S.W. would
collect about five-sixths of it, or to a coal-
export bonus while N.S.W. would collect
practically the whole of it. In fact, there
appears great difficulty about finding any
fair and legal way in which the Common-
wealth can interfere, or any form of inter-
ference which wouldn’t cost more than Bruce-
Page can afford.
It is a long huff that has no turning, and
one has happened at Rome. The Pope is to
become a temporal ruler again, and Victor
Emmanuel is to take spiritual refreshment
at St. Peter’s, after which Pius XI. will
take bodily refreshment at the palace. Then
the Holy Father will go out to see the
world. It is a very different world from
the one the last Pope who went a-roving
knew. Napoleon 111. and Francis Joseph
looked as if they were going strong then,
and there were five European continental
empires where there is no empire now. The
human race specialises in republics these days
—theoretically, at least. There are 16 of
them in Europe, four in Asia, one in Africa,
two in North America, six in Central
America, three in the West Indies, and ten
in South America. The new State might as
well call itself a republic also, seeing that
Venice passed for one, the Pope, like the
Doge, being a president elected for life by a
limited constituency.
Prime Minister Hertzog, of South Africa,
has defined his position respecting the
colored man in politics. It is that the colored
man, whether native or imported, must do
with a strictly limited amount of politics—
so little as to be almost imperceptible. If
this is theoretical injustice Hertzog regrets
that it can’t he helped • power isn’t going
to be transferred to a colored majority, even
if it has acquired the habit of becoming
"educated.” With a black majority in charge
the white man would have to go. Then it is
a question whether Colored Brother, deprived
of his original guiding force, would stay
educated. Liberia is a doubtful example. Four-
fifths of such education ns exists in that Afri-
can republic (the only one) is furnished by
missions. The ruling caste consists of about
20,000 descendants of liberated U.S. slaves,
who arrived a century ago and don’t increase
much. The 2,ooo,ooo'indigenous blacks aren’t
exactly forbidden to vote, but somehow they
hardly ever do. About 974 per cent, of them
are left in a wild state. White people cannot
sit in Parliament, vote, hold any office or
own nroperty. That supplies precedent for
a white State to go on.
The exuberant Laz-
zarini, M.11.R., has a
plan for establishing
industry on enduring
foundations. He de-
mands the erection of
“a system under which
wages and profits
should be fixed by
arbitration,” but not
by “class - conscious
judges.” “Just as
there should be a
basic wage,” he says,
“so there should be a
basic profit.” Th e
gentleman did not
explain what he would
do in cases where the
“basic profit” was not
reached, or where
tlr'i'e was a dead loss;
still, he is known to
believe that miracles
could be worked by
“nationalising credit”
—that is, giving poli-
ticians full control of
bank funds—and issu-
ing bales .of inconver-
tible paper money.
Lazzarini, M.H.R.
“Sol M.”: Supposing the Bruce-Page
Cabinet could contrive to be defeated in a
dignified way, my idea is that it should be
glad to resign. _ It should arrange to lose on
some minor point to emphasise the ; fact that
its disaffected friends are a small-minded and
pernicketty crowd, with only a capacity for
odds and ends. Then it could leave to its
successors the diminishing revenue, the in-
creasing deficit, the loan habit, the collection
of the new sinking-fund contributions if the
financial agreement goes through, the finding
of a new scheme should the agreement fail,
the increasing demands of the States for aid,
and the coal trouble. Going out on some
knotty point about the non-production, of an
official paper or the like, the present Minis-
ters could say that they left the monetary
situation sound, the proof being that their
carping critics, however furiously they
carped, didn’t seriously allege that it was
otherwise. The sudden illness of a supporter
through eating bad fish at a critical moment
might provide a suitable way out.
BAD LAWS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Bad laws are made to be broken. If they are
not broken it is our duty to break them.” — Senator-
elect ltae at Sydney Town Hall, attacking the
Arbitration Court.
“Bad laws,” said Sikes, what time the crib
he eyed
And quested for a vulnerable spot
To start upon, “were made to be defied;
And kindly tell me anyone who’s got
A better right than I have to decide
Whether a blinking law is bad or not.”
And thereupon, with purpose definite,
He drew his trusty jemmy from his kit.
“Bad laws,” the coiner growled and took a
squint
Around, “with stacks the statute book is
cursed,
Enactments framed by chaps with hearts of
flint
That leave a craftsman hampered and
coerced ;
And, from my viewpoint, that which gives
the Mint
Sole right to mould our currency’s the
worst”—
And fell to showing what, with stamps and
dies,
Can be attained by private enterprise.
“Bad laws,” the shanty-keeper groaned, and
broke
With vicious energy his whisky down,
“This six-to-six tomfoolery would provoke
The veriest saint to wring his hands and
frown.
Twelve hours a day are all they give a bloke
To vend the rum that’s red, the hecr that’s
brown !
They must be fools” —disgustedly he spat—
“To think we coves will stand for laws like
that.”
Bad laws were better broken. Well, it may
Be so; it’s arguable that they should.
Still, with all deference (or none) to Rae
And all the blaring, bellowing brotherhood,
Who in the blithering blazes is to say
Whether this law or that is bad or good
And rank as an approved authority,
By prejudice unmoved, from bias free?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIBLE'S INKS"
“Amity”: The most astonished man in
Sydney the other day was a driver on a
city rank, into whose cab a tired-looking pas-
senger flopped, and after mopping his heated
brow remarked crisply, “Brisbane !” The
driver began to question. “I said ‘Brisbane, _
snapped the fare, “and I’ll pay one way in
advance. Are you going to take me or not :
“Yes,” said the driver, pulling himself to-
gether, “but not in this cab. I’m going to
drive you to the depot, get another cab, call
in at my home for two minutes —it’s on the
way—and then we’re off.” He brought the
passenger back to Sydney five days later.
* * * *
“Avril” : My elderly neighbor at the talkies
was entirely satisfied with the King’s
manner of speech. “There’s no swank about
’im,” she announced approvingly. “’E ’asn’t
got no accent at all. ’E torks jus’ like us!”
* * * =l=
“P.M.” : “Old Burke” was a motor-cyclist
in the A.1.F.; in civil life he was a Western
N.S.W. squatter. One day he gave a Tommy
officer a ride in his side-car, and two-pip
held out a silver franc. “That’s all right,
thanks, old chap,” said Burke; “save ’em
up and buy a bike of your own!”
* * * *
“Uramao”: Drunks’ luck? A M.L. motor-
ist was travelling between Nelson and Blen-
heim behind a car that was pursuing an
erratic course, and cautiously kept well
behind it. When the wobbly car came to
a bridge it grazed the right side, then the
left, and after regaining the road again dis-
appeared over a steep bank, turning a com-
plete somersault. The man following jambed
on his brakes in order to render any assist-
ance possible. He was amazed when he real-
ised that the car had landed on all four
wheels at the foot of the bank, after which
it rushed a sandy knob immediately in front
of the radiator, re-climbed the bank, regained
the road, and scattered a mob of sheep to
right and left as it pursued its course, the
THE KNACK OF IT.
“I could never see why she’s such a huge social success, could you?”
“Oh, my dear, yes—she can always say the wrong thing at the right time.”
driver never having been dislodged from his
seat On arrival at the nearest township, the
witness of the looping-the-loop stunt noticed
the car filling up at the bowser while its
complacent driver was doing ditto at the
adjacent pub.
* * * *
“Mid-Vic.”: The only conspicuous event
in the life of the Earl of Clancarty, who
died at his Galway home last week, was
his marriage to Belle Bilton, London’s most
beautiful pantomime-boy in an era when
curves were in demand. She was the first
of the picture-postcard beauties, and more
widely advertised than Lily Langtry herself.
However, there was a strong social prejudice
against ladies of the ballet in the ’eighties
and early ’nineties, and because Lord Dunlo,
as he then was, insisted on marrying Belle
Bilton. his name was taken down at the
Carlton and other great clubs, and he was
notified that he would not be welcomed at
Court. In later years the clubs relented,
but with Irish piide he refused to be p.acated.
His Countess died of cancer wnen nor
beauty was at its height. Young Dunlo was
sent to Sydney by his father in 1888 with the
object of curing him of his passion, but he
returned to his London love after a week or
so in Australia.
* * * *
The Queensland miser who left
a thousand pounds in gold and half as much
again in silver neatly packed away in billies
and tins (B. 13/2/’29) was more considerate
to his heirs (if any) than an old dairy-
farmer in Gippsland who used to bury all
his income in his orchard. W hen he died
intestate, his next-of-kin, a nephew, un-
earthed the hoard in jamtins and other con-
tainers and found that it consisted almost
entirely of cheques. Those from the butter
factory were paid, but quite a lot were value-
less, the drawers being dead.
* * * *
“Centurion”: For the capacity to size up
a situation in a Hash and the resourcefulness
to turn it promptly to his own advantage
the action of this Sydney gentleman could
hardly be improved on. He was locked up m
a Water Police cell when he heard a
drunk next door implore the constable
to take care of his money, which had
been taken from, him until he sobered
up, at the same time repeating ms
name clearly, so that there should be no mis-
take when the hour of release dawned.
Shortly after, a new warder came on duty.
To him the quick thinker appealed as the
sobered-up drunk, giving his name as a
guarantee of good faith. As lie was obviously
sober, he was released after signing for the
other man’s confiscated money, less the usual
ha 1 deduction. Not even a stiver was left,
the owner for u hair of the dog that bit linn.
* * * *
“Ida D.”: Marriage by proxy in Java
isn't quite so simple that it can be effected by
an exchange of gloves per mail (B.
20/2/’29). This is purely a private and
sentimental accessory. Marriage by proxy-
lias been celebrated in the Netherlands for
centuries. The girl in Holland goes through
the regular marriage ceremony, always with
a proxy in place of the distant groom (a
close friend or a relation of either party), often
with' the bridesmaids and all the parapher-
nalia of a proper wedding, except that the
ring is changed to the right hand, lhe man
in Java goes to the proper Government de-
partment in Sourabaya or Batavia, fills in
his papers, and is then ready to meet lus
bride on her arrival. The notice, of the mar-
riage is published in the Java papers: Get-
rouwd bij volmacht” (married by proxy),
then follow the names. The contracting
parties in all marriages, proxy or otherwise,
are compelled by law to post their names
at the Town Hall of their respective towns
several weeks before the actual ceremony. On
becoming engaged, the Dutch man and
woman exchange plain gold rings, wearing
them upon the third finger of the left hand.
On marriage these rings are changed to the
corresponding finger of the right hand.
* * * *
“0. Beau”: The Queensland hermit who
socked away £2500 in coin of the realm (B.
13/2/’29) was a familiar figure in the scrip-
tural section of the Brisbane Public Library
until the mental ward of Brisbane Hospital
claimed him. Always ragged and always
desperately busy at his note taking, the old
man used to tram it in from Coorparoo
daily, spending four hours jotting down data
for a monumental work of religion he in-
tended to write. I was once sent to try
to dig some copy out of him for a weekly
rag, but beyond pointing to the sign en-
joining silence he took no notice of me.
Most of his money was the proceeds of a
property sale —he had inherited a farm a
short while before he arrived at Coorparoo.
* * * *
“Pinktape, Sen.”: Just-dead Dr. Patou,
who started his long professional career m
N. S. Wales as M.O. at Trial Bay Prison,
used to tell another sort of story about Gov-
ernor Carrington, the Excellency who said
“No” to all appeals to spare the necks of
the Mt. Rennie boys. At Trial Bay was a
man under sentence for defalcations in civic
accounts. He had held a good social posi-
tion, and his family, including a daughter
devoted to him, had visited Government
House. One day the prisoner received a
letter from this daughter—it was then near-
ing Christmas—which ran: “Dear Dad,—l
saw L° r d Carrington the other night. He
was kind to me, and asked what I would
like best to have as a Christmas gift, and
I told him there was nothing in the world
I would like better than to have you home
for Christmas dinner with us. And, dear,
he said he would try to get it for me.” On
Christmas Eve a dispatch reached the gaol,
The prisoner was to be sent to Sydney to
reach there on Christmas morning. The
prison was back from the coast, and drifting
sand intervened. “But.” said the doctor,
“we did it. A trap and a couple of horses
were got, and the prisoner and a warder
made for the coast. The shore reached, a
signal was hoisted, a passing vessel stopped,
and our man reached Sydney on Christmas
morning.” Baton loved to tell this, not be-
cause of the part Carrington played, but
because it illuminated, he said, a spirit
very common in the gaol service.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: Among “Jersey Lily” reminis-
cences I miss the story that had a far wider
vogue in late Victorian days than any dealing
with the beauty that took London by sudden
storm or the talent that exploited it on the
stage. It was at a gorgeous garden party,
so the yarn went, that the lively lady,
either to win a bet or to flaunt her supreme
dominion over everything in pants, mis-
chievously inserted a piece of ice between
THESE SUSPICIOUS HUSBANDS.
“I want to tell you, Percy, how sorry I am for starting this morning’s quarrel.”
"Thanks awf’ly! But you’ll have to wait till pay-day for whatever it is you want."
the collar and the neck of her august ad-
mirer and patron, the then Prince of Wales,
Edward VII. to be, and thereby discovered
that there were limits even to the pranks
a fashionable beauty might play. The Heir-
Apparent, it was told and implicitly believed
by millions, promptly and irascibly struck
the offender off his visiting list. Though the
story was occasionally denied, I doubt very
much if it was pi: re invention.
* * * *
“Exdig”: Fred Davison, who is mainly
responsible for the Cenotaph and its situation
in Martin-place, based his argument in favor
of the site on the claim that that is the
spiritual centre of Sydney.” There is much
to be said for the contention. Whenever a
transient thought of Sydney came to me
over the other side, it was generally a vision
of Martin-place, its sunshine and its flowers
that arose; and I found it was the same
with many other Diggers. Practically every
city in the world has some spot which
definitely impresses its individuality on the
memory. “Cripes!” said a Victorian Digger
to me in hospital. “I dreamt I was back
in Melbin. I saw the crowds at Flmders-
street; an’ I was just going to nip across
to Young and Jackson’s for a pint, when I
woke up—blarst it!”
* * * *
“T.E.M-” : The following table of losses
in the war was computed from official data
by Walter Littlefield, an American statis-
tician : , _ ... .
United- British
States. Empire Belgium.
Alobilised . . .. 4,272,521 7,500,000 267,000
Killed •• 67,813 692,065 20,000
Wounded I! •• 192,483 2,037,325 60,000
Prisoners or missing 14,363 360,367
Total casualties . . 274,659 3,089,757 90,000
Australia’s contribution to the Empire forces
was • Enlisted 33(5.000, killed 54,431, wounded
15 600, prisoners or missing 79,760, total
casualties 290.191. The proportion of
casualties per 1000 mobilised was thus as
follows: U.S. 64.3, Belgium 337.08, B.E.
411.96, Australia 863.66. These official
figures also show that Australia with its
small population had 15.532 more casualties
than the American total, and also that our
casualties were nearly times as great
per 1000 men mobilised or enlisted as
America suffered.
jj. * * *
“Strict Veg.”: Leslie Williams, a Goul-
burn (N.S.W.) electrical engineer, had
his car stolen from Goulburn and came
across to Melbourne in answer to a
police report that the .vehicle had been
located. He claimed his car, called on
some relatives and left for home with
two suits of clothes and some gift chocolate.
The car was found, abandoned, on Jan.
27 with one suit of. clothes in ? it.
Followed an amazing series of clues, all
abortive. The car had been seen at Seymour,
Ballarat, Ballan, Violet Town, Beveridge,
Woodstock. Darraweit and Bylands. W ater-
holes dams, wells and abandoned shafts were
searched in all those districts. Blood was
found on a bridge over the Goulburn liner
and a diver tramped miles over its snaggy
bottom. A wounded man stumbled into a
country police-station and said that he had
been given a lift by a car driver resembling
the published descriptions of Williams; that
the pair and another wayfarer had fallen
asleep by the wayside and that he had woke
up to find himself being assaulted. Then
reports began to pour in from hotels, whose
bartenders distinctly remembered serving
drinks to the party. Presently somebody
reported that he had just seen Williams alive
in Melbourne. Immediately dozens of people
saw him in dozens of different places simul-
taneously. Other solutions of the mystery
suggested were loss of memory and suicide
on account of business difficulties. At present
the daily mail at Russell-street concerning
Williams occupies the attention of two con-
stables; and at least six clairvoyants know
where the body is and have offered their
services. , .
“Gad”: The recent agreement between
Mussolini and the Vatican revealed some
dubiousness in Australian editorial circles
about the identity of the Supreme Pontiff. A
foremost Melbourne weekly concluded a lead-
ing article tracing the Papal struggle tor
sovereignty with the following flourish.
The day upon which the venerable and gentle
features of Benedict XV. are seen by the inhabitants
of Rome emerging beyond the Piazza di San Pietro
into the streets of the secular city of Rome will be
the beginning of a new era in the immensely long
and grand annals of the Roman Catholic Church.
There can be little doubt that the appear-
ance of Benedict XV. would create some-
thing of a sensation, his Holiness having
been dead and buried for more than seven
yearS -,
“Sol M.”: It is a common or occasional
belief that a cold winter north of the line
is the precursor of one in the south, and
the present northern winter is bleak enough.
Deaths from cold at Karachi, an Indian sea-
port on the tropic line like Rockhampton,
are distinctly irregular, and so is the news
of Oft. of snow at Constantinople. There
Kemal’s republic has been attacked by
wolves, which were met by soldiers with
machine-guns. This manoeuvre revealed
points about the march of science.. The pre-
vious lowest record for Constantinople was
practically the same as that of Canberra.
If tliat sort of early spring strikes Canberra
and its hilly surroundings, the best hope is
that it may be possible to rescue the civil
service by aeroplane, though the records and
the deficit may have to be abandoned. A
disquieting possibility is that a frost like
this may come and forget to go away again
—that it may stay on and become an Ice
Age. No man now living can tell by experi-
ence .how suddenly an Ice Age is liable to
arrive. It may come ages before it is
expected.
* * * *
“C.Q.” : The Ivanowna was one of those
ships which were perpetually being gutted
and reconstituted during the war period. Mie
served as a troopship in the Pacific and
Indian oceans and as a hospital ship in the
Atlantic. In 1915 she was ordered to carry
troops from Port Moresby to German New
Guinea, but her firemen refused to take her
out of Australian waters. She was returned
to her owners later, requisitioned again,, and
her last war job was carrying British prison-
ers home from Turkey in 1920. Shortly after
she returned to civil life .1 travelled on her.
and my berth was alongside the second-class
pantry. Politics with a Bolshevik tinge
raged on board, and its finest flower round
expression in the daily wasliing-up ritual.
Half a dozen on the top of a pile of plates
would be washed—the rest would go over-
board with the dirty water. . It was the same
with the cutlery. Nobody in authority
tured to protest. It was put down to war
weariness,” though most of the stewards had
never seen a shot fired in anger; and the
cost was passed on in increased passenger
fares.
A ROSEBUD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
An open bud!
O softly tread.
Perhaps a fairy
Lies abed.
A beetle gay.
With aching feet,
Took it perchance
For hammock sweet.
Maybe it is
A fragrant swing
For butterfly
With tired wing.
Or else perhaps
A cradle line
For drowsy moth
AVith golden shine.
But no. I sec
It nods in bliss,
A-blushing at
A sunbeam’s kiss.
S.A.
H. B.


“Tiptoe”: Speaking of initials that are
liable to embarrass their proprietor (B.
13/2/’29). I recall a hapless schoolfellow
in the long ago whose name was Harry
Ernest Lovat Lcishman. lie was never
allowed to forget it.
* sis * *
“Senex”: Touching these heavy seas or
mammoth waves (B. 13/'2/’29). The rollers
nearly always travel in threes, the middle
one being the largest. A low-powered vessel
is automatically slowed by a gale to the
right speed to rise well to the sea; but a
liner, with her reserve of power to be used
to keep schedule time, punches on at top
speed, and sooner or later is bound to be
caught before her bows rise from the pre-
ceding sea. A genuine tidal wave is a tre-
mendous undulation, not a wave at all, and
only acquires perceptible flow in narrow
waters. The effect was felt practically
all over the Seven Seas when old
Krakatoa blew his head off in the Straits
of Sunda in ’B3. My dad, master of the
windjammer Orion, met one of Krakatoa’s
waves 300 miles off the eastern entrance to
the Straits; he always swore the vessel
turned a complete end-over-end somersault.
She was totally dismasted.
* * * *
“Greenleaf”: He came marching steadily,
like one of Napoleon’s Old Guard, along the
rampart of rocks that fringes my back gar-
den—a little white cockatoo whose feelings
evidently had been outraged, for at intervals
in his stately march he rose on tiptoe,
emitted a shrill cry of defiance and flapped
his wings furiously. Descending the rocks,
TAKING ADVANTAGE OF HER ABSENCE.
SISTER-IN-LAW (to widower): “What’s this about you getting
married, again? You’re lucky -poor dear Sarah’s not here—
she’d soon put a stopper on your little game.”
he made his way to where I sat on the back
porch and looked up at me with a whole
world of sophistication in his hard little eyes
I understood how lie felt, so I got him a
biscuit and a bowl of water. He decided to
stay, so next day I bought him a cage, a
perch, a pound of maize and a chain. He
cast one look at the chain, one scornful look
at me, and painfully commenced to reclimb
the heights which he had descended. Oblig-
ingly I threw the symbol of bondage far
awa,t into bushes. So he came down' again
muttering inaudible soliloquies. I sat still.
He looked at me hard, and said “Hello,”
extending his right-hand claw. I shook it —
and he’s now firmly entrenched in my house-
hold. I haven’t tried to teach him to talk
and had no idea he had more than his tele-
phone greeting in his vocabulary until the
other day. I got home from work a bit
late, the result of meeting an old friend,
and I’d forgotten to do some shopping for
Mrs. Greenleaf, who spoke to me in the
frank and incisive manner which is the pre-
rogative of wives. When the storm blew
oyer and I sat puffing a repentant and reflec-
tive pipe, Cocky drew near, fixed me with a
cynical eye, and remarked: “If ever I marry
again—oh, Hell!”
* * * $
“Bullwlianger”: A beautiful example of
the shipwright’s craft, and one that deserved
a less ignoble end. was the
American four-masted schooner
Robert R. Hind, which was
burnt in Kerosene Bay, Sydney,
last week. Built at ’Frisco in
’B9, she had an active career as
a coal drogher between New-
castle (N.S.W.) and .Callao in
the palmy days of the trade.
Later she fell on evil times.
Purchased by a syndicate who
personally officered her, she set
out in 1923 with general cargo
for the South Seas via Sydney.
The second mate was washed
overboard in dirty weather, most
of the sails and a deckload of
kerosene went with him, and
two fine cargo launches were
stove in. The owners took the
loss philosophically, and per-
formed a neat bit of navigation
in putting the Robert alongside
Gavutu wharf under sail, but
their flashness cost them a heavy
fine—for landing without first
getting pratique. The feat was
repeated later in Rabaul. Then
the Robert R. Hind was headed
for Sydney, where she was
arrested for debt, and lay for
years with a “ticket on her
mast” until she became palpably
unseaworthy and was con-
demned. She was a real clipper
in her day. I was in a powered
vessel that once towed her out
of an island lagoon, and when she set all
sail she left us as if we had been anchored.
>i< * -Jc *
“Yemeni” : The gloom of 20 centuries has
been effectively lifted from Jerusalem.
I lived there for four years and
found the city, in many ways, as advanced
and lively as any Australian capital. Your
Jerusalem merchant listens in and acts upon
reports received by wireless. After a tire-
some day he will take his wife (or his
pretty stenographer) to the opera, and per-
haps finish up with a spin through the hills.
Strikes, yellow newspapers, land swindles,
election campaigns and other innovations of
modern civilisation are all everyday occur-
rences. Finally, the local Rationalist Society
in Jerusalem is a power to be reckoned with,
and claims that it makes more converts in a
week than all the agents of the various
religious denominations do in a year.
* * * *
“G.S.M.”: “Light Horse” is unjust to
Colonel T. E. Lawrence (B. G/2/’29), than
whom no man ever
Inpl less time or use
for publicity
agents. Except in
reputation La w-
rence made nothing
whatever, either
directly or indirect-
ly, out of the Arab
campaign. H i s
army pay went to
the expenses of the
campaign, and even
the decorations of-
fered him, includ-
ing the D.S.O. and
C.M.G., were de-
clined. He was not
give n unlimited
funds to bribe the
Arabs, and his mili-
tary ability was
singled out for high
praise by no less
an authority than
Foch, who classed
him as one of the
most outstanding
leaders of the
Allied armies. Wit-
ness his feat of
holding 24 bafc-
' talions of Turkish
infantry and camel
corps, besides artil-
lery, locked up bet-
tween Decra and
Medina, forces
whi c h otherwise
would have been
available against
Allenby. And the
Arab army of 4000
fighting men, far
from being negli-
gible, was worth an
army corps to the
British on the
Palestine front,
not only on account
of the Turks it
kept busy, but for
the strain it put on
the Turkish trans-
port and supply.
Finally, while there
were doubtless
plenty of other
Oriental linguists,
, , Lawrence was one
of the very few Englishmen who thoroughly
understood the whole Eastern geographical
and racial question, as lie demonstrated at
the Peace Conference.
* * * *
. Narara” : The Roman Catholic Church at
Kmcumber, Woy Woy (N.S.W.), is another
which regulariy witnesses boat funerals (B.
0/2/29). Nowadays they are usually con-
ducted per medium of a motor-launch, which
conveys the corpse as well as intimate friends
and relations. At a recent funeral I saw
four launches, all crowded, following the one
which bore the corpse.
* * * #
“D”: There is historical interest in the
cabled news that “Almack’s Club, in Hyde
Park-place, London, has been closed, ‘certain
people,’ in the words of Sir Hugh Stewart,
the secretary, ‘having torpedoed it.’ ”
Almack’s was built as an assembly-room in
1765, and it has been a haunt of fashion
ever since. Byron lived just round the
corner, with Wilkes and Fox a few doors
away, and when the members of White’s,
Arthur’s and the Cocoa Tree, all of whom
frequented Almack’s in its prime, had only
to walk a hundred yards or so to reach it.
It was opened as a bridge club when the
game began to boom 25 years ago, and for
years was the most exclusive mixed card club
in the world, and the most expensively
MOST REMARKABLE SCENERY.
“My husband says it was a wonderful sight at the Highland Gathering
“The sword dancing?”
“No; to see all the Scotchmen shouting for one another.”
furnished and luxurious club of any kind out-
side of New York. Its downfall has come
from heavy gambling by bad players—chiefly
women. Their reckless play, and, in some
cases, their annoyance when they lost, helped
.to drive old members out. The entrance fee
was suspended last year, in the hope of
attracting new members, but this measure
of desperation failed, as it usually does.
* * * *
“Chf Wdr” : “T.R.H.” is talking through
his hat when he'says there is no executioner
in Victoria (B. 13/2/’29). There is, and
has been for years a permanent hangman and
flagellator, who is paid a daily wage and
is available at any time. Further, no senior
warder ever pulls the bolt at a hanging.
When once the Sheriff demands the body of
the condemned man, and produces his war-
rant for the same, the gaol officials cease
to have any further concern in the matter.
What happens afterwards is entirely the
Sheriff’s business.
* * !|S *
“R. Volt”: A queer form of interruption
to electric current has become so prevalent
that Vic.’s Electricity Commission has been
moved to issue a warning. It comes from
the inveterate habit of housewives of Dinning
flypapers to the flexible cords of electric
lights. The pins being of metal, a short,
circuit is likely to result, with consequent
blowing of fuses and the possibility of fires.
N« * * *
“Knib”: Tired of an over-sized girl-pupil’s
tongue-wagging, a young male pedagogue,
fresh from the training college in Melbourne,
told her she was a “disturbing element.” The
girl wept bitterly, and teacher was surprised.
He was still more surprised when the young
lady’s dad, backed up by mum, called next
day and protested against his child being
branded as a “scurvy elephant” even if she
did yap a bit too much.
* ❖ sfc H:
“Toheroa”: At the opening of the ju§it-
electrified Lyttelton tunnel—the same is
the second longest in Maoriiand —Prime
Minister Ward was on the spot to mark the
change-over from steam to electricity. The
train, drawn by the electric locomotive,
started proudly off with the distinguished
guests aboard, and then stuck in the old-
fashioned manner, while electricians and offi-
cials ran distractedly up and down. Defec-
tive overhead gear was finally diagnosed as
the complaint, and the distinguished com-
pany had to await the arrival of a mere
steam locomotive to tow them ignominiously
out of the predicament, a spectacle that
afforded intense joy to the crowd.
* * $ $
“Hayband”: If a quart of two-bobs
totalled £l4B (B. 13/2/’29), a removalist
who, about. 1907, purchased a Parramatta
house, once owned by doughty Rev. Samuel
Marsden, must have done exceedingly well —
his find was a two-pound syrup-tin chockfull
of quids. Somewhere in the hazy past the
tin had been first nailed to a floor joist, and
afterwards filled with sovereigns. During
demolition it became dislodged, and tumbled
into a litter of rubbish. Only the sheer
accident of a false blow with a mattock
brought it to light once more. Even then
the workmen ignored it. But the contractor
noted that it rolled heavily, and picked it
up. He definitely refused to divulge either
the value of the contents, or—what might have
been even more interesting—the purport of
two short notes, one at the bottom and one
at the top of the collection. He compared
the dates thereon, announced that they were
identical, and carefully burnt them. Seem-
ingly, the plant had been a sudden-death
affair, but nobody will ever know anything
more about it.
* * * *
“Clocker”: The reform of the calendar,
which has been discussed by a special com-
mittee of the League of Nations, is also, the
concern of a little bond of earnest souls,
scattered all over the world, who call them-
selves the International Calendar Organisa-
tion. They propose to scrap the Gregorian
calendar now in use in most countries and
substitute a partly-decimal, partly duo-
decimal division. The day is to be of 12
hours instead of 24, and will commence at
what is now 6 a.m. Each hour will consist
of 100 minutes; each minute of 100 seconds,
The week is to be a six-day one. Twelve
weeks and a spare day make a quintal. Six
weeks constitute a inona—a new sort of
month. The leap-year extra day comes in
every four years as at present. The days of
the week are to be Dugdi, Haldi, Kindi,
Metdi, Rypdi and Soldi, the “di” standing
for day. The J ear will commence on what is
now December 21. It is blandly suggested
that the great religious festivals of the
various creeds could be shifted round to fall
on the quintal spare days.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: In the latest Mel-
bourne tragedy all the information that
could be given about a man who went ber-
serk and killed himself was that he was
known to the couple with whom he lodged
as “Sam” ; and there are probably hundreds
in the cheap lodging-houses of our big cities
who could be no better identified, in spite
of electoral laws. In Sydney some months
ago a man was found dead in his bed in a
house where, although a resident for years,
he was known only as “Old Bill.” His place
of employment being ascertained, the police
sought further information there, only to
find that the deceased was down on the pay-
sheets as “Bill the Cleaner.” Feeling that
it was only decent to bury him with some
sort of surname, they disposed of him as
William Hardy, the name having been found
on a tab on one of his coats: but as the
clothing may have been second-hand, it was
a chancy kind of christening.
❖ * * *
“Narara”: A Newcastle (N.S.W.) Sun-
day-school teacher last Sunday told her class
of small boys the story of Saint Stephen.
She related the tale impressively, and then
asked her pupils what it taught them. Back
came the answer from a thoughtful eight-
year-old : “Please, Miss, you gotta keep in
wid de push if yous don’t want to catch it
in the neck.”
# * * $
“Percy Pawnticket”: The prevalence of
Shetland ponies in the San Ilemo district
(Vic.) is due to the whim of the original
founder of the firm of McClellands, in
Prahran, who made a big fortune out of his
general emporium. Originally he came from
the Shetland Islands, and because the coun-
try near San Remo reminded him of his
birthplace he built a country residence there
on a large estate which he planted with fir-
trees and pines. Then he imported some
Shetland ponies, herds of which now gallop
about the estate. For decades it has been
an understanding that any child in the dis-
trict who wants a pony to ride can have one
for the asking, and practically every kid in
the neighborhood owns one.
* * * *
“F.S.” : In New York a contest has
raging between competitors for last place in
the directory. Zzyn (Lewis Browne) seemed
unchallengeable until another Zzyn (Nicholas
Putman) robbed him of his distinction. The
first Zzyn then changed his name to Zzyz!
A similar feud broke out some years ago in
Perth between taxi companies for the much
more valuable distinction of being first in
the ’phone book. The Aard company won,
but it was momentarily nonplussed when the
department demanded that the title should be
a genuine word. Then somebody discovered
that “aard” was Dutch for “domestic hearth,”
and although that doesn’t seem to have much
to do with taxis, the explanation satisfied
the department.
HIS HEART’S DESIRE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Young man, non-dancer, teetotaller and non-
gambler, desires a small young lady, under 27,
sincere and homely.”— Age view mat. ad.
No time for poker schools or trots he has,
No taste for ale in tankard or in pot;
He scorns the Charleston and he shuns the
jazz,
Deems breweries a curse and pubs a blot.
I doubt if he could tell you who has got
Most runs in Chapman’s conquering eleven.
He only asks, to cheer his lonely lot,
A small young lady under twenty-seven.
He wouldn’t spring a thrummer or a brown,
Much less a nimble ninepence for a tot;
He views revolving couples with a frown;
From modern bunny-hug to old gavotte
He doesn't care a single rap or jot
For pastimes that our drab existence leaven.
This is his sum mum bonum —and why
not?—
A small young lady under twenty-seven.
The froth he never from a pewter blew,
Or smacked his lips over a warming spot,
Or backed a favorite at five to two
Or at some fleet outsider took a shot.
All such amenities lie reckons rot.
He only asks from a discerning Heaven—
Or wheresover soul-mates they allot—
A small young lady under twenty-seven.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
ART.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Dresses will be longer next season.” —Familiar
fashion note.
He who views the shapely calf
With an artist's eye,
As do most of us (why laugh?),
Cannot help but sigh.
Pained is his aesthetic breast,
Absent is his smile,
When he thinks of ladies dressed
In the Mid-Vic. style.
Prithee, do not think that I
Speak of sheik or rake,
But of him who’s guided by
Art for Art-silk's sake!
VICTORIA.
J. EST[?]


JAey\te made ifcevi way
£y tfce way tfceyke made ’
mM
>
/-
k
i
MARK
TRADE
NAVY CUT
CIGARETTES


USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
'phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Addiesn:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
sd
Fx&R” PLATE
ENTREE DISH.
Specially heavily silver-plated
on hard white metal base..
63/-
A Lasting
Substitute for
Sterling Silver
There is deep significance in the way time
proves the real merit of beautiful things.
In the case of good plate, quality is the
only criterion of value, and the ultimate
test of that quality is in time and use.
Low-priced and inferior plate looks much the same as plate of real value when new—
but what a difference after some months’ use!
“Fx l& R” plate stands the test of time and use. Nothing better is made and no other
plate represents such sterling value for money.
FAIRFAX
& ROBERTS, LTD.
Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
PLAIN FIGURES.
CASH ONLY.
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
u
n
A
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some March birthdays :
A. C. C. Holtz (Melb. Aiigus), 55, on Ist ; Queens-
land Senator Thompson, 66, and N.S.W. Collector
of Customs Barkley, 60, on 2nd; Justice Powers
(High Court), 76, and author-parson Frank Bore-
ham, 58, on 3rd; Archbishop Mannix, 65, Prof.
Brailsford Robertson (Adel.), 45, and novelist Edward
Hyson, 64, on 4th; ex-Premier Lawson (Vic.), 54,
on sth; Major-Gen. Bruche, 56, and Chas. A. Earp
(Newcastle), 58, on 6th; Dr. yEneas McDonnell
E. A. MAY, Sydney’s City Coroner, who
has had far too much to do lately.
(Toowoomba), 65, and Rev. Janies Colwell (Metho-
dist Church historian), 69, on 7th; artist Tom
Roberts, 73, on 9th; artist John Longstaff, 67, on
10th; Walter Bennett, M.L.A. (N.S.W.), 65, H.
I*. Beaver (Adelaide’s Town Clerk), 61, and Dr. E.
S. Simpson (W.A. Govt. Mineralogist), 54, on 11th;
G. E. Flannery, K.C. (N.S.W.), 57, on 13th; Frank
Clarke (Pres. Yic. Leg. Council), 50, and J. R. Collins
(High Commissioner’s Office), 60, on 14th; Prof.
Boyce-Gibson (Melb.), 60, and Bishop Hayden
(Wilcannia), 61, on 15th; S.A. Attorney-Gen. Hoip-
burg, 55, and Dr. J. A. Leach (“Australian Nature
Studies”), 59, on 17th; Prof. E. R. Holme (Syd.),
58, novelist Bernard Cronin, 45, and Clem Hill 52’
on 18th; N.S.W. Police Commissioner Mitchell, 64,'
J. Wallace Sandford (Adel.), 50, and A. S. Rodgers,
54, on 20th; Geo. Fairbairn (ex-Vic. Agent-Gen.),
74, novelist Roy Bridges, 44, and Fed. Min. Marr,
49, on 23rd; former W.A. Premier Lefroy, 75, Bishop
Anderson (late of Riverina), 70, and John Living-
ston (ex-M.H.R. for Barker), 73, on 24th; Vice-
Admiral Ernest Gaunt, 64, and N.S.W. Minister
Bruxner, 47, on 25th; Customs Minister Gullett, 51,
Vice-Admiral Clarkson, 70, and ex-Senator de Largie,
70, on 26th; Prof. Wm. Mitchell (Adel.), 68, and
ex-Vic. Premier Allan, 63, on 27th; Walter James
(formerly W.A. Premier), 66, Prof. McDougall
(Speck’s Uni.), 62, J. A. Norris (Vic. Auditor-Gen.),
57, and J. S. MacDonald (Director of N.S.W. Nat.
Gallery), 51, on 28th; Westralian Senator Colebatch,
57, Prof. T. G. Tucker (Melb.), 70, Dr. Jethro
Brown, 61, and G. V. Brooks (Speck’s Director of
Education), 52, on 29th; Speck’s Senator Sampson,
47, on 30th; Bishop-Coadjutor Wylde (Bathurst),
49, and Howard Hitchcox (Vic. M.L.C.), 63, on 31st.
Rupert Haynes, whom Bruce is sending to
Canada as Trade Commissioner, was a cub on
the Melbourne Argus before G. Wood, Son and
Co. (the Adelaide warehousemen) snapped
him up. He made good with the S.A. concern,
and when still a young man was appointed
managing director. Haynes is a dapper little
fellow with an Australian belief in Australia
and its produce, lie is no stranger to
Canada ; lie visited that country in 1926 for
the Dried Fruits Association.
About the busiest man in Sydney last
week was F. R. Lee, who prepared the
business paper for the Peace-in-Industry
Conference, was its secretary throughout,
and had to be ready to reason with the
wild women who invaded the proceedings,
and chuck out wild_ men. Melbourne claims
him, but he lived in Wcstralia for a good
many years. In that State he ran a news-
paper and had a shot at politics before
shrewd little Tommy Maughan, who went
from the Kalgoorlie Chamber of Mines to
the Employers’ Federation in Melbourne,
Picked him as a young man who could
argue ably for the employers with tongue
and pen.
Speacock is to be the guest of the McPher-
son Government at a dinner to commemorate
the completion by him of 40 years’ continu-
ous service in Vic. Deg. Assembly. The
whole Parliament will be invited to the
feast. Speacock is the father of the House,
as well as its head. Elected for the first
time on March 28, 1889, he held office in 14
Governments, three of which he led.
John Gillespie was appointed postman at
Singleton (N.S.W.) in 1882. In 1886 Percy
Chapman joined the local p.-o. staff as tele-
graph messenger; live years later he, too, was
named postman. John and Percy are still
delivering Singleton’s letters, having spent
every hour of their departmental service in
the town.
James McColl was fated not to survive
his 85th birthday many hours. He was Vic.
Minister for Mines under J. B. Patterson
(1893-94) and Minister for Lands and
Forests under Allan McLean (1899-1900).
Going to the Senate, he became Vice-
President of the Executive Council under
Joe Cook, whose Ministry was cursed with
the burden of its answered prayer for a
double dissolution of Parliament by being
dissolved itself. Like his father, the famous
Hugh, McColl was an authority on water
supply, and he had a talent for writing on
subjects relating to soil production.
Enthusiastic J. J. Moloney, who runs the
Australasian Society at Newcastle, is the
happiest citizen of the coal country. Years
ago his society was made trustee of Bulba
Island, a dot in Lake Macquarie, and
Moloney stocked it with native animals and
birds; but as fast as he put them there
vandals destroyed them. Now, after patient
collection of funds, John Sharp, himself a
nature-lover, has been placed on the islet
as keeper with a new lot of birds and
beasties under his care; and to land on
Bulba with a gun is going to be hazardous
for the gunner. “This will be a bit of Aus-
tralia when all the surrounding country is
Americanised,” said Moloney, pointing
proudly to the sanctuary.
George Turnbull, sub-manager of Morey
and Co., Thursday Island, knows Torres
Strait and its treacherous currents as well
as any man breathing. In his recruiting days
he collected an arrow wound in the Papuan
Gulf, and he came back from France —he
was an officer in the 52nd Battalion—with
another memento in the shape of a shrapnel
bullet in the lung, which is still there. He is
a crack rifleshot. For excitement now
Turnbull mostly cruises the Strait with rod
and line in search of the big kingfish that
give thrilling sport.
A stout old ploughman was Peter Conlan,
who has been laid to rest at Lilydale (Tas.).
He did the ploughing on his small farm until
three years ago, and he was 94 then.
Dr. Robert T. Paton, who died in Sydney
last week, was in the long ago medical
officer at Trial Bay Prison, a then experi-
ment in penology. Later he was medical
officer in Sydney, a post he filled for many
years ; in 1913 he reached the topmost rung
of his ladder as head of the Public Health
Department. With a wide and penetrating
knowledge of humanity the doctor preserved
his faith that some good was to be found in
every man, and this marked his sympathetic
treatment of young and old in prison and
hospital and before the Pension Board.
Frank Clarke, president of the Vic.
Uppish House, has left with his daughter
and a bunch of other relatives for a trip to
the Cold Land via Java and Singapore. He
will have a good look at the Singapore dock,
as he is a close student of naval affairs and
rejoices in his membership of the Navy
League. Edgar, Chairman of Committees,
will be acting head of the Plush Chamber
while Clarke is away. The session won’t
begin till July 3 or thereabouts, and things
are not likely to be strenuous till Clarke
gets back at the end of September.
Charles Perrin Skerrett, Chief Justice of
Maoriland, who has died at sea, suffered
all his bad luck in the closing months of
his life. Born and educated in Wellington,
lie vvas admitted to the Bar at the age of 21,
and for many years he had one of the most
lucrative practices in the Dominion. The
M.L. CHIEF JUSTICE SKERRETT.
fact that he loved horse-racing and never
missed an important meeting was no hind-
rance to his career. Skerrett, with a de-
cidedly sporty suit of check tweed beneath
his silk, skilfully arguing a case and blandly
requesting an adjournment, was an object of
admiration to a Bar that, like the Iv.C.,
wanted to get out to the trots. Soundest
of lawyers, he possessed a remarkably acute
mind, and was never at a loss no matter
what twist a case might take. On the
Supreme Court Bench these qualities served
him as well as they did at the horse-shoe
table. An accident that involved the ampu-
tation of both of his legs was the beginning
of the end.
Dr. Kennedy, the new Provincial of the
Marist order in Australasia, is a man of
wide interests, and the Royal Astronomical
and Geographical Societies have admitted
him to fellowship. Born in Lyttelton, he
studied for the priesthood in Ireland and
England, and, returning to Maoriland in
1892, lectured frequently on insect life, be-
sides equipping a first-class laboratory and
meteorological station at St. Mary’s scholas-
ticate, Hawkes Bay. In 1909 he was made
rector of St. Pat.’s College, Wellington ;
later on lie became superior of the Green-
meadows seminary, noted' for its picturesque
surroundings. Dr. Kennedy, who is 65 years
young, is at present inspecting the houses
of his order in N. S. Wales and Queensland.
Queensland’s new Commissioner of Health
is Dr. John Coffey. Victorian by birth, he
graduated at Edinburgh, practised for several
years in Lancashire, was a hospital doctor
in Dublin, and saw service in France.
Demobilised in 1917, he practised in Dublin
again before reaching Queensland in 1922.
General Sir John Maxwell, who has died
at Capetown of pneumonia, aged 70, was one
of the few Imperial brass-hats who approved
of the Diggers’ forthright methods with the
Gyppos. He was G.O.C. the forces in Egypt
during the historical raid on the Wazzir in
1915, and he turned a blind eye on that and
other events. Maxwell took over the awk-
ward job of C.-in-C. Ireland the following
year—an ill-starred command, though it
lasted only about nine months. One of his
interests was the exploration of Egypt’s
ancient tombs, in which he had been associ-
ated for the past five years with Sydney’s
H. D. Mclntosh. He was one of the few
really wealthy British soldiers of senior
rank ; he and his Avife defined their financial
position beyond question last year by buying
a house in Belgrave-square.
Father McGrath, V.C., has returned from
England after a long absence. He was
chaplain to the Ist Cheshires, and got his
cross for saving an officer under hea\ 7 y
machine-gun fire; he made such a habit of
hopping the bags and attending to the
wounded that he lifted an M.C. as well. The
padre was born in Benalla (Vic.), and before
entering the Church was a porter on Prahrau
railway station.
The Oldest Boy of the King’s School,
Parramatta, which attained its 9Sth birthday
on Feb. 11, is Frederick Charles Cox, father
of "Fightin’ Charlie” Cox, Major-General and
Senator. He attended the school from
ISSO to 1853, during the second period
of Robert Forest’s administration (‘‘Long
Bob" Forest was the first headmaster), and
is in his 92nd year. The old man, who lives
at Carlingford, is surprisingly clear in his
recollection of school events of 78 years ago,
and still takes a keen interest in all that has
to do with the institution. His elder brother,
William, who has been dead about 10 years,
went to the school in 1838, not long after it
had moved from its first site in George-street,
Parramatta, to the old stone building above,
the Dam, which is still its headquarters. Two
generations of sons and grandsons have been
to The King’s since F. C. Cox’s time. Close
to the school, on the Windosr-road, is the
house in which Mr. Cox was born; it was
built by his father in 1807.
Tom Kennedy, who got the call aloft
suddenly from his farm at Buffalo, Gipps-
land, a few days ago,' was a member of the
Vic. Leg. Assembly from Nov., 1893, to May,
1901, when he entered the Reps.—he stayed
there till 1906. Later he was chairman
of Vic. Closer Settlement Board, and then
he returned to his first love —farming. When
he stood for Benalla and Yarrawonga (Vic.)
in ’93 he was defeated by the late Col. J.
M. Templeton, famous company liquidator
and prosecutor of plungers, by the returning-
ofheer’s casting vote. Kennedy entered a
protest, and fought his own case before the
Elections and Qualifications Committee,
which awarded him the seat. Ile has left
a few thousands each to his three daughters
and one son.
Governor Somers had to sign his name
570 times before the statutes consolidated
by Justice Cussen and ratified by Vic. Par-
liament had been assented to. A predeces-
sor of Somers, Baron Brassey, bought a
rubber stamp for affixing liis signature to
deeds and documents when he hurt his right
hand severely. Bob Best, the Lands Minis-
ter, was horrified, and rhe owner of the Sun-
beam had to sign again—with a pen held in
his left hand.
A fine feat was that of a Parkdale (Vic.)
Digger, Harold George, who swam out in
response to cries for help and saved three
children from drowning. And he is short of
a leg—he left it in France.
It fell to Laborite Slater, as president
of the Vic. Law Institute, to offer congratu-
lations when Owen
Dixon took his seat
on the High Court
Beuch in Mel-
bourne, and the
sometime Attorney-
General spoke well.
During the Castle-
main e - Kyneton
campaign, Co m-
rade Pollard,
M.D.A., in trying
to take down
Langslow, now also
an M.L.A., referred
to the Law Insti-
tute as a union.
If it is a union it
is not ashamed of
Slater, nor need
Slater apologise to
Pollard for belong-
ing to it.
Headmaster
BAYLEY,
of Prince Alfred
College, Adelaide,
who is retiring
this year.
“A.G.M.” (Loud.) : Helena Rubenstein
has been telling how she went to Australia
from Poland to join relations, and with a
borrowed hundred pounds laid the founda-
tion of the business for which she recently
refused £6,000,000. But she doesn’t tell half.
Her own attractive appearance was the
best asset she had when she used that £lOO
in Melbourne to make up a face cream for
which a Hungarian doctor had given her the
recipe. The belief that the use of this cold
cream would yield them a complexion .as
radiant as her own induced thousands of
Melbourne women to give her their patron-
age. With the money so secured she started
a scheme of advertising which showed keen
business acumen, and so on she has pro-
gressed to her present affluence. Her busi-
ness is now a world-wide affair, and even
before the war an income-tax inquiry re-
vealed her annual profits as about £60,000.
She has a handsome husband and two stal-
wart sons to enjoy her wealth.
"JONES.”
[F OR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Hughes told a Nationalist party meeting
that, should Mr. Bruce retire from office, it would not
necessarily involve the succession of a Labor Ministry.
The Prime Minister’s duty would be to advise the
Governor-General to send, not for Mr. Scullin, but
for ‘Mr. Jones, of the Nationalist party.’ ”
Can you place him, this mythical Jones,
A sort of ubiquitous brother
To him whom selectors were wont to provide
For the very last place in a cricketing side,
Our worthy old friend “A. N. Other”?
lie would lurk behind that norn dc guerre
Like chivalry’s knightly unknowns;
But we all of us knew that, where’er and
whene’er
“A. N. Other was needed, he’d surely be there.
And so, you may wager, will “Jones.”
“The Only” was once on a time
The brotherhood’s prefix oblique,
For no better reason than this, I suppose:
That you came on the clan in battalions and
rows
In the land of the harp and the leek.
Thence, ever gregarious, it swarmed
Abroad through the earth and its zones,
And Inigo heights of celebrity stormed,
And Paul garned laurels, and mummers per-
formed
The tale of “What Happened to Jones.”
Ah, well, there are Joneses galore
From Canberra to Clapham and Kew;
At Oxford, where Jesus’s grey towers rise
hoar
If you stand in the quad, and the moniker
roar,
You’ll raise up a dozen or two.
With the grit of the Cambrian race
Jones wins to political thrones;
And though for repairs he at times seems a
case
He’s seldom past mending. Can anyone place
The one indispensable “Jones”?
N.S.W.
IFORD.


Poverty
Point
“Wood’s Green” (Nice) : Toti dal Monte
secured an envied opportunity in Milan this
week, when she song the leading rdle in the
first production of Umberto Giordano’s new
opera, “11 Re,” under the direction of the
great conductor Toscanini. It is of groat
interest that Giordano has been able to give
the world a new three-act work destined
to live, for at the moment there is a positive
famine in operatic composition. “II Re, ’
which is set to a brilliant libretto by Gmac-
chini Forz&no, belongs to the true Italian
school, in which harmony and cohesion are
supreme, and in which the logical progress
of this sphere of operatic music is clearly
manifest. The story deals with a maiden
who abandons her lover when she becomes
fascinated by the king, and returns to him
when the Sovereign reveals how much of his
attraction is due to the trappings of royal
state. It has imagination, passion, fantasy,
reality and beauty, and the fine music makes
the most of all these qualities. Superb
orchestration, effective, unaccompanied
choruses and golden opportunities for the
three principal soloists, the maiden (Dal
Monte), the King (Armando Crabbe) and
the lover (Enzo de Muro) are provided, and
these artists, with Toscanini, received
applause that often reached a furore. To
be in a premiere at La Scala is a great
honor.
“Goldilocks”: Nothing as farcical in the
way of films has been produced in Australia
as “The Bushranger,” Hollywood’s attempt
to put Australia in the pitchers. Snowy
Baker is listed as technical director, but,
obviously, he has forgotten all about Aus-
tralia, and his ’ranger is merely a Wild
West bad man. There is a general preva-
lence of unconcealed revolvers, but the stock-
whip replaces the lassoo, and as a bit of
local color the boomerang soars through the
picture, landing, amongst other places, in a
stately ballroom, which has apparently wan-
dered into the bush for an experience of the
simple life. Two Australasians besides
Baker are in the piteous business —Dale
Austen, who was Miss New Zealand for 1927,
and Ena Gregory, of Manly.
“O. Kay”: The Bulletin Shadow Show-
man is of the opinion that the flesh-and-
blood show has nothing to fear from the
talkies. I wouldn’t go that far. Already
the American dramatic stage has been hit—
front-rank artists have quitted the boards for
the sound studios. The great Ethel Barry-
more lias been captured, and Madge Kennedy
and Otto Heggie.
“Mick Marr”: Gladys Moncrieff first trod
the stage as a lead in an amateur produc-
tion of the “Pirates of Penzance” at Towns-
ville. The headmaster who produced the
play was my uncle, Mr. “Mac” Fardon,
whose 18-stone figure is often to he seen at
Bananaland first-nights. Gladys sang the
tenor part of Frederick with a success that
drew attention to her voice and aroused en-
thusiasm. No one but school children had
a part in the piece. She paid her erstwhile
mentor a pretty compliment by acknowledg-
ing his presence in the stalls at a Sydney
show some years hack by many grateful
curtseys.
“Coster”: Madge Elliott (B. 13/2/’29) is
not an Australian, nor are Dorothy Sea-
combe and Eve Gray and her sister. They
all came from England (their birthplace) as
youngsters.
“Swiss”: Ivy Scott, doing so well in
America, was a school kiddie at Croydon
(N.Q.), whore her dad (an Old-Country
M.A.) was the master. Ivy was born at sea,
and her birth registered at Cooktown.
“A.G.M.” (Bond.) : Dorothy Brunton, who
has been having a long season in the pro-
vinces, will shortly have another opportunity
in the West End, where Harry Welchman
will present the “White Camellia,” with him-
self and the Australian girl and Huntley
Wright in the principal parts. Among other
Australians reappearing on the metropolitan,
horizon are Max Pirani and his wife, Leila
Doubleday, with Charles Hambourg, forming
the Pirani trio. Their next concert will
be at the Wigmore Hall. E. J. Carroll is
recuperating at the Winter Palace, Cimiez,
prior to taking up the direction of the Eng-
lish tour of the Dayton Westminster Choir
from the U.S.A. Great satisfaction is felt
over the fact that George Tallis and the
Taits have made themselves responsible for
the London production of an all-British musi-
cal show.
“Clarence Cafeteria”: What is the stage
coming to? The great sensation of “The
Flying Squad,” the new Edgar Wallace
shocker at the Melbourne Royal, is the
attempt of a girl, driving a motor-car loaded
with cocaine, to elude the London police
patrol and escape into the country. If
Bland Holt had produced the piece he
would have had a real race, with exhausts
roaring and pedestrians skipping for their
lives. What Royal audiences are getting is
the very usual spectacle of Mary McGregor
driving an Oldsmobile about one and
a half lengths out of a garage at five
m.p.h, and meekly stopping when a couple
of cops on foot hold up their hand. Bland
once staged a horse race, in which two
genuine animals galloped furiously on a
revolving platform which kept them in full
view of the house while the scenery fled past
them. On the opening night the leading-
horse fell off on to the stage, but continued to
win the race though lying in a prone
position. Theatregoers got their money’s
worth in those days.
“O. Kay”: The Fox people are to be the
first to make talking- and sound-films in Aus-
tralia. Upon the return of Australian
camera-man Ray Vaughan, who was sent to
the U.S.A. by the Fox branch to study the
production of movietone films a short time
ago, operations will commence. A thousand
feet will be “shot” each week and issues
exhibited throughout Australasia; copies wdl
also be sent abroad. The subjects to be filmed
will be the usual current happenings (gazette
stuff), which to-day demand dialogue and
sound. The next Melbourne Cup will be
movietoned.
“Cmsar’s Ghost”: The curtain fell on. an
old-time entertainer when Fred Wentworth
died at Bexley (Sydney) recently. Born in
London 77 years ago, the baritone came, to
Australia with the original Fisk Jubilee
Singers, and" stayed to become a prominent
member of the Simonson opera companies
and Sheridan musicomedy.
“Hamfat”: At least two Australian man-
agers make a point of lying doggo for the
four weeks before Christmas. .Considering
the tragedies of that period, it is a wonder
others do not follow their example. The
manager of one touring co. showed me his
returns for this period—lie took less than
£lOO for 22 performances.
“Schnorrer”: Not as much ado as might
have been expected has been made of the
passing of Maurice Bernhardt, son of the
immortal Sarah. He had some fame him-
self as a writer of plays, and managed his
mother’s theatre for her at times. Australia
saw him as a shy member of the Bernhardt
retinue. He was 67 when he died in Paris.
“Cauboy”: The new Rolls-Marlow theatre
in Melbourne will be unique in that it will
be built on Crown land. Wirths have con-
ducted their circus on the spot since 1922 on
a permissive-occupancy lease of 15 years, and
the rent is subject to revision. There should
be a fine opportunity here for an enlightened
Premier to have a clause inserted providing
for a short annual season of intelligent
drama, preferably Australian.
“L.H.P.”: In Clark’s “A Study of the
Modern Drama” is published a -list of in-
ternational dramatists. Australia is credited
with only four: George S. Beeby, Spencer
Brodney, Louis Esson and Vance Palmer.
No mention of Bert Bailey, Kate Howard,
Ned Duggan, Louis Stone, George Walters,
Alf Dampier and George Darrell. Plays by
the last two still hold the boards in the
country. They may not be masterpieces, but
they earn a crust for travelling mummers.
“Cine Ma”: “Interference,” done here by
Leon Gordon, has been talkied. The entire
dialogue was recorded, and N’York audiences
have registered no objections.
“F eng - Shu i” :
“Christ,” a drama in
five acts by a Japan-
ese playwright, was
recently performed in
Tokio. A faithful at-
tempt was made to
follow the Bible story,
except as regards
Judas. To commit
hara-kiri as atonement
for a mistake is _in
Japanese eyes in-
tensely heroic, so
Judas appeared as a
hero who betrayed
Jesus, not for the
pieces of silver, hut
because he wanted to
give Him an oppor-
tunity for a display of
supernatural powers in
confounding His
adversaries. The Cru-
cifixion was por-
trayed with grisly
realism. But Japanese
theatregoers showed
no interest.
“Cine Ma” : A large number of silent pic-
tures which have been screened lately in Aus-
tralia began as talkies. “Four Sons ’ is one
of them. Until the movie magnates know
how the public is going to take the innova-
tion, they are playing for safety by making
the two devices interchangeable. There are
no technical difficulties in the way. A vocal
film can be run through a dumb machine.
A new development is to print the speaking
part on one ribbon and the visible on an-
other, and run them through separate instru-
ments. Thus Hollywood hopes to hold its
clientele.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : The Daily News has
got into boiling water by announcing that
Melba’s help to the League of Nationa
Opera, which Boecham is sponsoring, ‘ would
show that she means what she says, and
that her help would not be confined merely
to advice and counsel.” Whatever, her inten-
tions are, they do not coincide with the
Daily News statements, which, she says,
are inaccurate and premature, but she
expresses her confidence that she can induce
some Australians to back the scheme. Sir
Thomas Beccliam has already shown that
always he must be the autocrat, and the
idea of Melba working with him suggests
Mount Vesuvius and Niagara Falls in joint
control of a motion picture.
“Morita”: Producing films in England is
not confined to the big financial undertakings.
“By the Aid of a Rogue” was acted and pro-
duced by Monmouthshire unemployed coal-
miners, who had been technically advised by
a film company. Proceeds are to relieve the
distress of the unemployed. Picture distribu-
tors have helped the scheme through by
undertaking to exploit the film throughout
the British Isles free of cost.
“Cine Ma”: The British censor, con-
fronted with the new French “Joan of Arc’
film, is once more up against the fact that
the camera is a too thorough recorder of
realistic truth. It is well established that.
Joan was burnt. British histories don t
deny it and Shakspoaro and Shaw both men-
tioned the incident in a play. But there is
a world of difference between treating the
matter dramatically with a red glow and off-
stage shoutings and handling it photographi-
cally with everything put in. I saw a Con-
tinental screening of “La Tosca once, m
which a sadistically-inclined audience was
obliged with a close-up of a thumb being
dismembered. In filming a promising story
like that of Joan, some movie producers
would not stop at burning a pound of steak
to heighten the effect.
“Mick Marr”: When the stagehands at
“Good News” struck recently a group of
notables, including Ben Fuller, had to become
temporary scene-shifters. L/&ck of a bedroom
set forced them to improvise by placing
the beds in the garden and “sleeping out.
Their plight was not so serious as that of
a touring co. in Lockhart (N.S.W.), whose
stQck of scenes was burned the night before
the premiere. All kinds of rough make-
shifts were borrowed, and an announcer
told the audience what they represented. In
the third act he declaimed, pointing to a
broken-down old conveyance in a corner,
“This is the Loringtons’ luxurious family
coach, with beautiful gold and silver
ornamentations, worth thousands of pounds.
Came a. voice from the back of the
“An’ cost Riley [the local coachbuilderJ
three quid.”
“Si Anu”: Some consternation was caused
amongst loyal Dyaks when it was rumored
that the Ranee of Sarawak had agreed to
appear at Hollywood in a film depicting her
as ruler of hundreds of thousands of naked
savages, and there were sighs of satisfaction
in the clubs and academies of cultured
Kuching when it was learnt that the story
was not true. The Ranee is the daughter of
Lord Esher, and is said to have been the
original inspiration for Barrie’s Peter lan.
She has always shown a keen appreciation of
her husband’s subjects, whom the Brooke
family have made the best-governed, _ best-
educated and most prosperous community m
the jungly parts of Asia. For her to appeal
in a Hollywooden version of Sarawak history
would be tantamount to King George accept-
ing the captaincy of the convict hulk Success.
“Garrick” : Leon Errol, now starring in a
Broadway musicomedy, helped to put Aus-
tralia on the American stage long ago. He
went to the U.S.A. more than 15 years ago,
made good in vaudeville, played a time tor
the camera, and then went into his present
line of business. Simms was the name used
with the water that was sprinkled on his
head in Sydney 40-odd years ago.
ANOTHER DUD.
THE MAN WITH THE MATCH: “Blithering blazes! I believe it’s another dud.”
TOO NOISY!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ‘Talkie’ reproduction may be affected by the
distribution of people in the audience, by gaps and
jambs, even by the clothes worn. The sound must be
‘monitored’ to suit.”
••“What’s clashing?” moaned the movie-man,
“What color, .gap or crowd?
Locate, good ushers, if you can,
This something dense or loud.
If no kind friend can put it right
The talkies will be dumb to-night.”
A fellow in the tie his spouse
At Christmas for him made,
A matron in a bargain blouse,
Three girls in red arrayed,
Were weeded out. But still no quips
Fell from that outraged talkie’s lips.
“Bli-me!” at last there rang a voice,
“Ain’t we to see no flick?”
“A-a-ah,” sighed the ushers ; “boys, < rejoice !
Out with the blighter, quick!”
And Cuthbert, pride of park and pier,
Went spinning out upon his ear!
Cuthbert —whose suit all purple glows,
Whose shirt’s a prawnlike tint,
Whose shoes of skewbald calf disclose
Hose of a sea-green glint—
Had been the blight: his screaming dress
II ad knocked the movie motionless!
N.S.W.
THIRD USHER.


I
*|l|,
'Hi
i§i
>l ' N *_ .. $
,nS.^
■ 4sVi
IW&M
,vV \.>'X\\wn\»\WVv^\^v\>Lv n \3
ASHION’S resistless urge
—your unconscious but
dominant desire to be
always well dressed —is
more than met by
Fayrefield. Hats that
never fade, never lose their shape,
and are made to please the most
fastidious.
F 7
are ineir
Merrfs with None
Obtainable at all the
leading Men’s Stores
A PRODUCT OF
UNITED FELT HATS PTY. LTD


1
SW*
-'X
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BO
Total Assets exceed • £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
11 and nT deduction" made from policy*or bonuses. * ' deduction made from policy or bonuses. ,
.ff In the event of loss of eye or limb through .cement, a Quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
Lv tdtt'T?SDNAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost every contingency.
(5) PERSONAE AGO EXTRA PREMIDM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAI. BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
, 91 Tn the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
_«« -W r.n eifT rpTT Dnnnvnl \fotlQffOr.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Hit the Deck”
Criterion “The Patsy”
Royal “The Wrecker”
Palace “New Brooms”
Tivoli Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “The Desert Song”
Royal “The Marionettes”
King’s “The Flying Squad”
New Comedy “Pigs”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
The Beresford Fowler presentation of Noel
Coward’s “The Vortex,” at the Queen’s Hall,
Melbourne, last week was a brilliant testi-
monial to the burning need for home-grown
drama. The Coward piece is a more or less
accurate picture of an ancient and spatted
civilisation. Its members polish their epi-
grams with the same care as their servants
polish their footwear, and they feel, with
the deep faith that moves mountains, that
a perfect butler is of more importance than
the peace of Europe (vide Col. Repington’s
diary).
It is no reflection on the Beresford Fow-
lers to say that many of them have pro-
bably never seen a butler, perfect or imper-
fect, and that if they indulge in epigrams
they are of the “goodo” variety. On the
night Tiie Bulletin saw their performance
it was to be noted that some of them had
apparently pressed their trousers by the old-
fashioned method of wrapping them in news-
papers and putting them under the mattress.
Amongst other discrepancies, the collar
affected by Mr. Fowler himself has not been
worn since the death of William Ewart Glad-
stone. Hence the atmosphere created by
Mr. Fowler’s ladies and gentlemen as they
cavorted about the drawing-room of Mrs.
Lancaster’s flat (throe cane chairs and a
pink cushion) was as much like the atmo-
sphere of “The Vortex” as a mayoress’s re-
ception at Woop Woop is like the salon of
a French king’s mistress. When Mr. Fow-
ler’s gentlemen lit cigarettes for the ladies,
RENEE MURPHY, the Sydney girl who
has stepped out of the ballet into the
leading comic role in “The Desert
Song.”
the ladies were in imminent danger of hay-
ing their noses scorched; and when the said
gallants. kissed the hands of the said ladies
an inattentive observer might have imagined
that they were engaged in doing up a parcel.
The fact is that polite English comedy is
as out of the line of the average Australian
amateur as sword-swallowing. Kissing
ladies’ hands is not a conspicuous local
habit. It is true that Mr. Nevin Tait
does it beautifully at grand opera first nights,
but then he is almost a European. The Aus-
tralian is by no means a rude person, but
the Coward type of elegance is alien to his
experience. And when that elegance is an
integral element of a play, disaster is wait-
ing round the corner. “The Vortex” is com-
pact of elegance, the only touch of nature
in it being Florence Lancaster. Mollie
Locke, a highly-intelligent actress, seized on
that touch of nature and made of it a very
convincing piece of characterisation. The
rest would have been more at home in “Gum-
tree Gully.”
* * *
On the other hand, Shaw’s “Pygmalion.”
done on the following night, was agreeable
comedy. Mollie Locke was again in the fore-
ground with a delightful rendering of the
flower-girl whose moment of glory comes
when she flings the great Australian adjec-
tive into a duchess’s drawing-room. Terence
Crisp was Freddy Hill, and lived up to his
surname.
* * *
A performance at Melbourne Royal of a
French comedy, “The Marionettes,” by Pierre
Wolf, looks surprisingly like the effort of
a British chef to serve a Parisian cutlet
to a St. Kilda clientele. The last time Mel-
bourne saw—or didn’t go to see —a Gallic
piece was when Percy Hutchinson put on
“The Optimist.” It was admirably played
—in fact, it was the only intelligent thing
that stout entertainer did. But it failed be-
cause the average Melbourne theatregoer
likes cynicism with his amusement about as
much as he likes humidity with his heat.
The present piece should succeed because,
although cynicism gets a hearing, it is
knocked out, the dirty dog, with a wallop
on its solar plexus in the very first round,
and serve it right.
The roots of the play are certainly cyni-
cal and French, but its flower is an English
Abie’s Irish Rose. A stonybroke marquis
marries a simple country lass for money, and
learns to his virtuous disgust that she has
been harboring a secret love for him for
years. Moreover, she expresses a determina-
tion to break every respectable convention
by being an equally loving wife. This un-
warrantable behavior drives him to multiply
his mistresses, which drives her to the
expedient of compet-
ing with them for his
favor, while dangling
before his eyes an
assumed lover of her
own.
* *
The conversion of
an unsophisticated rus-
tic creature into a glit-
tering woman of
fashion brimming over
with guile being in the
hands of Margaret
Bannerman, it is an
immediate success,
though, truth to tell,
Gerald Kirby as her
husband looks an easy
mark. He never quite
succeeds in convey-
ing the impression
that he might be more
at home amongst gay
women and wine than
sitting at the domestic
hearth doing cross-
word puzzles with a
faithful mate. If you
accept the hypothesis
that temperaments can
be magically changed,
the Marquise Denis de
Monclars is Miss Bannerman’s most consis-
tent interpretation to date. It will also be
her last.
# * *
“Lido Lady,” which opened to a crammed
house at Sydney’s St. James on Saturday
night, might as appropriately have been
called “Rubber Recipe” or “Venuses of
Venice.” It is a vehicle for pretty faces,
shapely legs, attractive dressing and un-
dressing, a flood of conventionally cheerful
melody, a stream of comic patter and several
hundred square feet of nicely-painted scenery.
In short, it is what it professes to be, a
musical comedy, and principals and chorus
caper through it with such evident relish that
the audience cannot escape infection.
The thing is of London origin, and though
there is at least one person in the cast who
is supposed to be a citizen of the hip-flask
republic the characters all speak English.
A little nigger syncopation evidences itself
in some of the song-and-dance music; ex-
pressions such as “ ’way down south” have
crept into the lyrics and one character calls
another a “poor mutt,” but otherwise the
piece is refreshingly free from Americanism.
There isn’t a single saxophone in the
orchestra and no one plays a ukulele.
The plot hangs together in a tenuous sort
of fashion, modulating from one comic
situation to another without entirely snap-
ping the thread of the narrative, and the
songs, choruses and ballets are introduced as
naturally and as reasonably as one has any
right to expect.
Scenery and dressing are good—at times
brilliantly effective. The dancing, particu-
larly that of Adele Hardwicke, is a strong
feature ; the ballerinas (or chorines) are well
trained’and the leading roles are well cast.
Producer Charlton Morton has nothing to re-
proach himself with. On the musical side
there are obvious deficiencies. The orchestra
is competent, but there is not a first-class
voice in the company, and in vocal numbers,
both solo and choral, enunciation on Saturday
night was so faulty that the purport of most
of the ditties was obscure. I os-
sibly this was for the best.
The task of keeping the play
moving falls mostly on Elsie
Prince and Jimmy Godden. Miss
Prince is a very accomplished little
comedian, and in her new part she
has many opportunities to show
her versatility. Her male imper-
sonation. obviously based, on the
technique of Ella Shields, is nearly
as good as the original. Mr. God-
den is always amusing, and in the
masquerade rOle of King Solomon
he excels himself. Billy Leonard,
imported from the Cold Land for
this production, lias personality
and very clever toes, and 1 vetto
Anning, another recent importation,
makes a winsome and lively hero-
ine. Cecil Scott, as a villain, with
louse-ladders, and Nolle Deane, as
a villainess (more sinned against
than sinning, poor girl!), are
adequately conspiratorial.
Some very pretty stage pictures
are presented, the Feast of the
Queen of Sheba constituting a
really striking spectacle. Johnny
Fuller, all the principals and Alice
Parkes, who arranged the dances,
made speeches at the final curtain
on Saturday amid piles of flowers,
aiul wore cheered lustily by u
friendly and well-satisfied crowd.
* * *
Gautier’s dogs, which have been
taught to lay bricks, and do about
27s'. Od. worth of it at current
award rates during their stay on
the stage, were the principal new-
comers at Sydney Tivoli last week.
Harry Kahne went on being a
mental marvel and Sammy Shields
raconteured, ukulelcd and warblod
—things have come to a pretty
pass when an allegedly Scottish
comedian facing a British audience
has to put out his 15 minutes with
the latest products of. American
jazz-factories. Syd Roy’s Lyricals,
an all-English combination, played,
sang and danced jazz. The Fallow
Twins, who change their togs on
the stage—behind screens that arc
discreet —capered cleverly, Vera
Wootton sang comic ditties, Dunio
and Gegna did the sort of things
you would expect ’em to do with
names like that, and Murray Parker
parodied each act amusingly while
the scenes were shifted.
Last week at Melbourne Tiv. Asliton
.Tarry replaced a very dull sketch about an
incredible Chow with a very bright one about
what life will be like in a.d 2000 when
women rule. As the female of the future
Iviore King supplied a brilliant bit of acting.
Billed as Metropolitan grand-opera stars,
Rene Maxwell. Lilian Gibson, John Pnora
and Alfred Cunningham filled a theatre
usiicillv given over to the thin cadences ot
jazz with the richest strains from “Rigoletto,
and packed houses said they liked it. Ihe
two Daveys, talkative jugglers, continued
to talk and juggle, and the rest of the pro-
gramme suggested that the management was
engaged on a Back to Melbourne stunt,
There will be some new turns this week.
# * *
Nellie Bramley’s company played “Sunday”
last week, after a successful run of / \\ it bin
the Law ” The company is growing slim
with hard work during Brisbane’s dog days,
but the houses still are fat, and the box otnee
rejoiceth. In May the co will have been
a year in occupation. Carpenters still
hammer away in His Majesty’s, and the
management optimistically bills the opening
night for March 30, with the Russian
Ballet. The interior of the theatre is of
Spanish design, and there is to be a new
arrangement of the gallery, to allow for
booking. The New Ideas are still at Cre-
morne, and George Ward holds the fort at the
Empire - * * *
The gift of speech continues to be given
to the silver sheets at the Athenaeum and
Auditorium, Melbourne, four times daily.
There seems to be no shortage of public
interest in the phenomenon.
* * *
Fullers’ programme on Saturday night was
a mixture of vaudeville and sketch under the
eye of Dick Milton. Mo’s place knew him
no more, but a fair complement of his late
assistants remainded behind with the new
production, including Lula Fanning, Rene
Dixon and Cyril James. Newcomers in-
cluded Amy Rochelle, in all her glory, and
Lily Coburn, a distinctive dancer. Stan
Foley and his offsider, Dick Huley, supplied
much rollicking humor of a variety not
calling for disinfection.
shifted.
,- T J i. T n w n*
A recent complaint about J.C.W s de-
votion to imported talent brought the ex-
planation that the casts of plays purchased
abroad have to be made up from people on
the spot, because otherwise their suitability
MARIE BREMNER, the promising Melbourne
singer who has replaced Virginia Perry as
Margot Bonvalet in “The Desert Song.”
would not be known; also that it was in
all theatregoers’ natures to prefer foreign
players rather than their own. Well, that
being the Firm’s opinion, and now that it
has gone in for London production on a
large scale, of course we shall expect to
see a steady stream of Australian artists
tending Eng'landwards !
“Rob P.”: The some-time defunct heckel-
phone or baritone oboe has been resuscitated
in the “conn-o-sax” by 0. G. Conn, Ltd.,
American instrument makers, and will pro-
bably make its appearance on the Austra-
lian stage before this year is out. The new
version is an all-metal instrument with saxo-
phone fingering and mouthpiece, and with a
tone which is a compromise between that of
the saxophone and the English horn. It has
the advantage of the saxophone, however, in
that its register is half a tone lower and a
whole tone higher. It is tuned in the key
of F, and can be used in the orchestra or
band for English and French-horn parts.
The world-wide demand for “something new”
will probably be sufficient incentive for
further resuscitations.
“Shoot”: When Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer de-
cided to do “Trelawny of the Wells,” they
went out of their wmy to induce Otto Heggie
to play the part of Sir William Gower, which
he had rendered so ably on Broadway. That
film —it was re-titled “The Actress” —
was the first in 'which the South
Australian appeared. It was exhibited
throughout Australia recently. Heggie’s per-
formance put his name in the casting direc-
tor’s “character” book. Now comes the
opinion that he is the ablest of character play-
ers in Sam’s talkies. Apart from his acting
ability, his voice registers excellently. He is
now with the biggest of the film companies,
having signed a good contract with Para-
mount. whose all-dialogue productions are
a revelation.


Do You Keep Power Transmission Records?
s!/ 4 8(ISHtO'*^
Figures regarding the belts used on every drive in
your factory will sometimes disclose power leaks that
should be stopped; drives on which the belts wear
out much more rapidly than they should; drives that
are a source of trouble through faulty Belting
Equipment.
The user of
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
is assured of the quality and serviceability of his belting equipment of
efficiency, long life and low cost of upkeep.
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
J. C. LUDOWICI (SL SON, LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, Sydney.
Pioneer Tanners and Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 20-26 Queen’s
Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey Fry, Ltd., Edward
Street, Brisbane;
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell & Sons,
Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth
Street. Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards & Upton,
Auckland.
Patterson & Barr, Ltd., Dunedin.
Get your
PAINTS and
VARNISHES
from
AGENTS
EVERYWHERE.
THEY ”KEEP ON KEEPING ON!”
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Automobile Finance Co.
To Re- De-
Profit. Dividends. serves, ficit.
x £ £
1924.. 244 Nil 244 4,964
Added preliminary exes., £7594.. 12,558
1925*. 2,679 Nil 2679 9,879
Forfeited shares, £lO .. .. 9,869
Pref. Ord. £
1926.. 14,565 8 p.c. 10 p.c. = 9,746 4819 5,050
Reserves.
1927.. 19,661 8 „ 8 „ ~13,131 6520 1,470
1928.. 20,616 8 „ 8 „ ~13,480 7136 8,606
*l3 months.
This Melbourne co. set up in the hire-
purchase finance business five years ago. It
had difficulty in attracting sufficient capital
at the start, and it was not until the original
plans were recast that the money began to
come in freely. Under the rearrangement the
promoter's cut was whittled down from
£'lo,ooo (in paids) to £l5OO (in paids), thus
lightening that burden. Also, the scheme
for establishing branches in Sydney and
Adelaide was abandoned. Meanwhile, share-
selling and other establishment exes, had
cost the co. £12,802; competition for credit-
extension business in the motor trade was
found to be very keen. The depression
in the industry has not made it any easier
to keep the co.’s funds fully employed at
profitable rates either. To help the co. out
the business was early extended to other
States on a commission basis, and in 1926
a subsidiary, General Investments and Dis-
counts Pty., Ltd., in which this co. owns
all the £25,000 of paid capital, was formed
to finance t.-p. purchases other than auto-
mobiles. Thus the management has been
able to find work for the whole of share-
holders’ funds and a fair volume of borrowed
money besides.
It was not until its third year that the
co. began to write business in volume, ami
for the 12 months to Dec. 31, 1926, it netted
14.5 p.c. on the average capital, followed by
12 p.c. and then 12.2 p.c. last year. After
attending to the prefs., 10 p.c. was handed
to the ords. in 1926, but under altered trad-
ing conditions the board wisely decided that
shareholders’ interests would be better served
by paying a more moderate div., so an all-
round’B p.c. has been handed out in each
of the last two years, thus enabling all but
£2500 of the deadwood to be pruned out ot
the accounts at Dec. 31, when surplus profits
£8606 in excess of that had been accumulated
to assist the £168,573 of paid capital, of
which £24,700 is in £1 8 p.c. cum.-prefs. But
a shrinkage of less than p.c. in the book
value of advances, etc., would entirely wipe
out the present reserves, so a great deal
more needs to be accumulated before the
position can be considered attractive.
Continued progress will depend largely
upon the soundness of book debts, and
whether the allowances for doubtful debts
prove to be sufficient. Last year £3OOO (a
shade over 1 p.c. of the total m the
debtors’ ledgers) as against £2OOO in the pre-
vious year was so set aside.
The gross profit claimed by the accounts
for the last term (£57,707) was £3837
greater than for the previous year, but
£2OOO of the increase represented a div.
from the pup. Exes. (£37,091), including
£19,973 unaccrued interest on advances,
took 45.3 p.c. of the gross profit as against
44 3 p.c. and 44.7 p.c. in the two preceding
years. So the co. did not get much benefit
out of the year’s increased business; com-
pared with the previous balance book debts
(£268,491) were up £22,612. . .
The pup, for the year to June 30 last,
gathered £7382 in interest, etc., or £1979
more than in the year before. But exes.
(£5785), including £3779 of unaccrued in-
terest, were £2030 heavier, so the net
profit (£1597) was £5l less than the 1927
figure notwithstanding that there was an
extra £12.498 of capital at work. An 8 p.c.
div. (£2000) was paid, leaving reserves at
£1245. No intangibles figure in the she't.
Book debts were in at £31,855 (up £10,872)
and there was only £533 coming to creditors.
The parent’s position and the growth of
the business are seen in this next compari-
son of balance-sheet figures: —
1925. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital .. £79,741 £135,414 £168,573 £168,573
Overdraft . • 9,521 80,0/0 68,236 70,345
Sundry creditors 1,406 7,738 7,259 14,416
Plant, etc. . 4 646 900 1,348 1,000
Shares in other
cos 12,501 25,000 25,000
Book debts .. 89,133 229,814 245,879 268,491
Investments, etc. 10 1,557 1,538
Apart from shares in other cos. the more
or less liquid surplus (.£183,730) improved
£ll.BOB during the year. After allowing
£3391 for doubtful debts all but £966 ot
the £268,491 on the books is represented by
hire-purchase agreements. These are mort-
gages on future incomes, in many instances
incurred to buy a wasting and non-produc-
tive luxury asset. Chief danger lies in the
extension of facilities to buy recklessly, and
thus incur crushing obligations. To escape
loss will call for very careful management.
The pound ords., paid to 10s., are priced
at 9s. 3d. on the market. The return at
that price is 8.6 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div basis.
The backing amounts to 10s. 7d. per share
in net tangibles. The prefs., which carry a
cumulative 8 p.c. and have priority as to
capital, are not listed.
D. Mitchell and Co., Ltd. (Sydney).
To Re-
Dec.. Net Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ . £ £ £
1918'.. 14,012 8 p.c. 11,775 2237 27,651
1919.. 16,944 8 ~ „ 11,775 5169 32,820
1920.. 19,785 9 „ „ 17,250 2535 35,365
1921.. 6,206 64 ~ „ 14,625 26,936
1922.. 16,418 7 ',, „ 15,570 668 27,604
1923.. 12,478 7 ~ „ 15,750 - 24,332
1924.. 21,725 7i „ „ 16,875 4850 29,182
1925.. 13,882 7 „ „ 15,750 27,314
1926.. 10,711 7 „ „ 15,750 —22,27 a
1927.. 11,733 7 ~ „ 15,750 18,258
1928.. 8,030 6 ~ ~ 11,250 15,038
This old-established Sydney wholesaler —the
business was founded by David Mitchell in
the sixties of last century, and the public
became interested in 1913 —is in the dry-
goods trade. Its fixed assets are in the books
at much below their market value, the
accounts are free of intangibles, the co.
manufactures much of its own requirements,
and it has a strong country connection. Not-
withstanding all this, the business has been
unable to make headway of recent years.
Profit margins in most of the lines the co.
handles are slender, and have been for some
while past.
Last year the position was made worse
by general trade depression and keener com-
petition for whatever business was offering.
Net profit, which was the poorest since
the post-war slump in 1921, receded
to 3.5 p.c. on capital. That was after
taking into account an unexplained
reduction of £3324 in reserves. The board,
however, clipped only 2 points off the div.,
reducing it to 5 p.c., thus making the aver-
age div. for the last eight years 6.7 p.c. Only
twice during that period, according to the
accounts, has the div. been actually earned.
Since 1920 net earnings have fallen short of
distributions by no less than £20,317, and
visible reserves have been drawn upon for
that amount.
After setting aside an unspecified sum for
interest, depreciation and other charges, last
year’s gross profit (£109,961) fell £7870
below the 1927 figure, making the drop
£14,975 for the last two years. This sug-
gests that turnover is not as good as it
was:—
Exes. p.c.
Gross Profit. Expenses. Gross.
1918.. .. £97,422 £80,418 82.5
1920 .. .. 121,958 100,745 82.6
1921 .. .. 109,734 98,842 90.1
1922 .. .. 117,813 99,705 84.6
1923 .. .. 118,273 102,981 87.0
1924 .. .. 125,360 101,492 80.9
1925 . . .. 119,746 100,563 83.9
1926 .. .. 124,936 110,792 88.6
1927.. .. 117,831 102,791 87.2
1928.. .. 109,961 98,607 89.6
Another difficulty has been' to make.
adequate cuts in exes., apart from taxation.
As soon as a favorable opportunity offers
the directors propose to sell part of the co.’s
present premises, which, they say, have be-
come too valuable for the purposes for which
they are used. Incidentally, much the same
sort of difficulty is facing, or has lately
faced, most of the people in the wholesale
softgoods trade. By this sale it is hoped to
reduce overhead, and, no doubt, to liven turn-
over with the additional working capital
that will thus become available.
Assuming that the accounts reflect the
position accurately, earnings wall need to
brighten or exes, will have to be cut, or there
must be some of both, if even a 5 p.c. is
to be maintained. The average net profit
over the last five years is only 5.8 p.c., and
for the preceding quinquennium the average
was 6.4 p.c.
The co.’s position as balance-sheet figures
show it, is as follows: —
199(1 1996 1997 1998
Paid capital.. £225,000 £225,000 £225,000 £225,000
Liabilities .. 145,136 202,093 169,700 162,837
Properties and
plant .. 24,435 53,854 53,189 52,720
Stock.. .. 128,350 121,251 113,201 105,775
Book debts, etc. 255,186 266,826 240,446 233,038
Cash, etc. .. 8,770 15,312 13,997 15,843
Just what the financial position is it is
difficult to say, because the co.’s holding in
Mitchell’s Factories, Ltd., in which it owns
all the shares, is shoved in with book debts
at £233,038—-down £46,547 in the last three
years. Over the same period £32,804 has
been clipped off the debt, reducing it to
£162,837 at Dec. 31; but how much of that
is fixed and how much current is not dis-
closed.
In March, 1926, the pound shares were
selling around par on the market. A year
ago the price had eased to 155.; recent sales
were at 13s. 6d. The return at the latter
figure is 7.4 p.c. on a 5 p.e. div. basis. The
backing amounts to 21s. 4d. in net tangibles,
made up of freehold, plant, etc., 4s. Bd.;
stocks, Os. 5d.; book debts, including shares
in the subsidiary, 20s. 9d.; cash, etc., Is. sd.
The lot less 14s. 6d. liabilities and sd. final
div.
The Victoria Palace, Ltd. (Melb.).
Written To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1918.. 8,134 Hi p.c. = 4,387 3747 18,266
1919.. 8,765 16i „ „ 6,337 2428 20,694
1920.. 11,793 224 „ „ 8,775 3018 23,712
Reserves capitalised, £19,500 .. 4,212
1921.. 13,935 20 p.c. = 11,700 659 1676 5,888
1922.. 14,462 20 „ ~ 11,700 941 2762 7,709
1923.. 13,197 20 „ ~11,700 1497 9,206
1924.. 12,426 174 „ ~ 11,133 1293 10,499
1925.. 16,034 I7i „ ~15,400 634 11,133
1926.. 18,793 17$ „ ~ 15,400 3393 14,526
Premiums on shares, £4400 .. 18,920
Struck off plant, £3500 .. .. 15,426
1927.. 19,760 20 p.c. = 18,602 1158 16,584
Premiums on shares, £17,600 .. 34,184
1928.. 19,975 174 p.c. = 19,015 960 35,144
A couple of years ago mounting costs,
amongst other things, threatened to nip an-
other few points off the dividend. Profits,
however, responded to the outlay on pre-
mises, and shareholders got an extra 21 p.c.
in 1927; it was clipped off again last year,
reducing the rate to the old 174 P-C., and
even then only £960 of the year’s net earn-
ings remained in the business. But with
the assistance of £17,600 of share premiums,
reserves mounted to £85,144 at Dec. 31;
and considering the amount of money repre-
sented by new premises that were not earn-
ing anything for the greater part of the
term, the net result (£19,975), which was
a robust 18.3 p.c. on average capital com-
pared with 21.3, 21.3, 18.2, 18.5 and 22.9 p.c.
hack to 1923, was surprisingly good. The
gift issues of 1918 and 1921 —together they
restored the £20,000 (10s. per share) that
was struck off capital after the boom burst
in the ’nineties, and added an extra £12,500
for good measure—make the present div.
worth more to old holders, though to those
who took up their proportion of the 1926
new share issue the 50 p.c. premium skimmed
off some of the cream.
The most outstanding feature of the busi-
ness during the last five years has
been its expansion. Substantial addi-
tions and alterations have been made
to the premises. To begin with the
Wrixon property, bought in 1919 for 117,000-
odd, was remodelled, and a new building
put up on the co.’s Little Gollins-street free-
hold. This work was completed in 1926,
and the demand very soon outgrew the
accommodation available. Then the Collins-
street lease fell in, and the office had to
be moved to the new building. This, con-
trary to anticipations, did not affect business,
and revenue, assisted by takings from two
new cafeterias, opened early in 1927, bounded
ahead:—
Exes. p.c.
Revenue. Exes, of Revenue.
1923.. £56,734 £43,537 76.7
1924.. 63,815 61,389 80.5
1925.. 76.072 60,038 73.9
1926.. 83,308 64,515 77.4
1927.. 94,844 75,084 79.1
1928.. 107,075 87,100 81.3
In order to meet the growing demand for
accommodation, the co. last year put up a
new nine-storeyed building, adjoining the
present premises, on a 65-years’ ground lease
obtained from the Baptist Church. The co.
pays no ground rent, but is to spend £5OOO
on the ground and first floors, which are to
bo immediately handed over to the church.
The new space was taken over as it became
available, but only three out of the co.’s
seven floors were in use during Show week
(September) ; the top floor was not out of
the contractor’s hands until after the close
of accounts at December 31. The seven new
floors will accommodate an extra 300 guests,
raising the total capacity of the co.’s pre-
mises to 800, or 60 p.c. more than it was
12 months ago.
During the year the renovation and re-
furnishing of the central block of buildings
was completed and a new entrance built.
This work and the cost of putting up the
new wing (the latter was expected to run
into £lOO,OOO, including fittings) swallowed
the whole of the £23,633 of new capital and
£17,600 of premium money that came in, and
the board had to go to its bankers for
£50,810 besides.
The next comparison of balance-sheet
figures shows what has been done generally:
1993 1096 1997 1999
- Paid capital .. £58,500 £BB,OOO £103,375 £127,008
Mortgages .. 15,000 49,781 48,874 47,911
Other liabilities 5,476 9,445 8,578 61,718
Freehold .. 74,547 144,287 154,863 158,709
Leasehold .. 2,703 85,604
Plant, etc. .. 13,236 22,534 23,936 37,289
Stores .. .. 524 774 447 579
Debtors .. 452 476 810 787
Cash, etc. .. 5,273 281 6,383
During the 12 months the excess of liabili-
ties over more or less liquids increased
£58,451, reaching £108,263 at December 31.
To ease the position shareholders have been
offered SS.OOO new 10s. shares, one for three,
at a premium of 100 p.c.
When the office has collected all the money
on that lot (the last of it is due in March,
1930) and the £4992 at call when the
accounts last closed, capital will be £176,000;
also reserves will benefit by £44.000 of share
premiums. Then a 174 p.c. div. will call
for £30,800 p.a., or £10'825 more than was
netted last year. To pay it, total funds
(capital and reserves combined), on the basis
of figures at December 31, will have to turn
in a whisper over 12 p.c. net. Last year’s
profit was 12.3 p.c. on shareholders’ funds at
the close of accounts. The business is on a
cash basis, and surplus earnings have gon*
mostly into fixed assets. Costs are high, and
of recent years the margins between earnings
and distributions have been narrow. Much
therefore will depend upon whether allow-
ances for depreciation, renewals, etc., prove
to be adequate. As far as can be seen, the
provisions have not been under-estimated so
far.
The market expresses its confidence in the
co.’s future by paying ss. Gd. for the rights
to the new issue. At that figure, and when
the shares are fully paid, the return is 6.8
p.c. on a 17£ p.c. div. basis. Including the
new issue, the backing for each 10s. share
will be 14s. Gd. in net tangibles.
Southland Frozen Meat (M.L.).
To He- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 17,076 10 p.c.- 6,828 10,248 104,900
Transferred to capital, .6 45,522
Cash bonus, “A” and “B” shares, £22,761
1910.. 76,136 8 p.c. = 9,083 67,053 110,004
1920.. 17,818 8 „ „ 9,083 8,735 116,282
1921.. 5,052 8 ~ „ 9,083 112,251
1922.. 14,635 8 „ „ 9,083 5,552 117,803
1923.. 19,696 10 „ „ 11,354 8,342 126,145
1924.. 9,249 10 „ ~ 11,364 124,040
1925.. 13,710 10 „ „ 11,855 2,365 126,395
1926.. 13,778 10 „ ~ 11,355 2,423 128,818
1927.. 12,722 11 „ „ 12,490 232 129,050
1928.. 14,683 12 „ „ 13,626 1,057 130,107
The area in which this Maoriland co.
operates —it has freezing works at Invercar-
gill, Mataura and Makarewa —was not
affected by the dry spell experienced over
most of the Dominion early in 1928. Indeed,
Southland had the best killing for many
years, the quantity put through the works
being about 50 p.c. greater than in the pre-
vious season, and the quality was up to stan-
dard, too. Last year opened with fat stock at
a high figure in the co.’s home market—prices
eased later —but the co. didn’t suffer much,
because the lamb and mutton markets
strengthened at the selling end (Smithfield,
Eng.).
After making provision for “repairs, re-
newals, taxation, depreciation and sundry
contingencies,’’ the accounts claim only-
fid,6B3 of the year’s takings as net profit,
which mounted to 12.9 p.c. on capital com-
pared with 11.2, 12.1, 12, 8.1 and 17.3 p.c.
back to 1923. Although competition in the
industry remains keen and keeps profit
margins narrow, the verra consairvative
boarrd tacked an extra 1 p.c. on] to last
year’s div., making it 12 p.c., and leaving
£1057 to further fatten the already corpulent
reserves, which were £16,560 in excess of
paid capital at Dec. 31.
Whether the position is all that it looks is
to a great extent governed by the adequacy
or otherwise of the allowances that have been
made for depreciation, etc. In addition to
the expenditure necessary to keep plant in
good running order there are grounds for
suspecting that as opportunity offered, especi-
ally during the fat years when the British
meat-purchase scheme and other war con-
tracts made the Maoriland freezing and ex-
port trade a really lucrative business, sub-
stantial additions were made to plant and
charged up against earnings. Up till the out-
break of war the annual writing off was dis-
closed, but what is done in that way now is
not visible. Still, some idea of the policy
that has been handed down may be
gathered from pre-war figures. For the
10 years to 1913 £31,893 was paid in divs.,
£52,336 was added to reserves and £52,151
written off for depreciation. The works then
stood in the books £129,711; the figure grew
to £153,915 in 1920, but was back to £116,082
at Dec. 31, 1927. Last year £4845 more
was spent on fixed assets than was written
off, thus advancing their book value to
£120,927. Over the last 15 years the capa-
city of the works has been substantially in-
creased, and the outlay must have been con-
siderable. A recent development which
threatens to call for further additions to
plant is the growth in delivery of early lambs,
due largely to the increased use of fertiliser
in the top-dressing of pastures.
How well equipped the co. is to take
advantage of any improvement in trading
conditions is obvious even from the skeleton
that balance-sheet figures present:—
1024 TQ2fi 1Q97 iQOQ
Liabilities. . .. £40,587 £50,200 £48,453 £50.049
Works .. .. 121,946 120,603 116,082 120,927
Stocks .. .. 22,861 26,138 23,801 22,081
Book debts, cash,
investments, etc. 139,037 151,502 157,980 157,508
The position is very solid. The more or
less liquid surplus (£129,540, down £37SS
during the year) covered the £26,160 of pref.
capital nearly five times. Allowing bare


mmmmm
‘v, •'■-'■
-■■o
'••V
m
■
mm
wnm
m
f m
m
i
■.*
m
iM
4fJU
m.
IS
ISi
l
j|
WwJSWfe
Vi
i
IF OIL IS KING,
THEN WOODBURN DOME IS ITS THRONE
To the Men and Women who think
that buying shares is beyond them.
ATTENTION!
Buying oil shares in a comany possessing a property of such outstanding possibilities
and facilities for the discovery of oil as that of Woodburn Dome, Limited, although
apparently a speculation, goes much deeper.
The importance to Australia of payable oilfields is so great—of such vital importance
—that it behoves everyone to do his, or her, bit to discover them.
The Geologist and Oil Experts of Woodburn Dome, Limited, have made it unnecessary
for you to do any looking. They have picked out and reported on a site which, in their
opinion, has possibilities of being oil-bearing equal to any district in Australia, with the
added advantage of being on the coast line.
The site being found for you, your job is to test and prove it. When successful, what
rewards! Not only National rewards, but rich pecuniary rewards.
And this doesn’t cost much! Woodburn Dome Shares are 2/6 each and YOUR
LIABILITY ENDS THERE.
You can get 10 shares for £l/5/-; 50 shares for £6/5/-; 100 shares for £l2/10/-
Although up to the present you may have never held a share in your life, you can no doubt see that
in regard to oil shares in Australia it is:—
(a) Your duty to assist in discovery and development of oil.
(b) So easy to buy shares that you won’t feel it.
BEAR IN MIND the Company’s property is in Northern New South Wales. Boring
will be cheap, as the Woodburn Dome Oilfield is shallow seated, transportation will
also be cheap, as the oilfield is on the coast.
OPPORTUNITY doesn’t knock at your door often! You will be sorry if you
keep the door shut. Oil has made more fortunes than any other investment.
Find out more about Woodburn Dome and its possibilities. Send for a
prospectus at once. To-morrow may lengthen into next week, and—
then —opportunity may have passed on.
Cut out and post this
coupon without delay
or obligations.
* #
,/if yj* ;
/ /
// // ,'
/ *Y ,\4v --^
,4/ ,#> ,-;£iV
y 4y’ ♦V
*<•’ / ••
NoT?
3*
df
sd
fs
Illustrates complete Stove
folded up, like a suitcase.
PRICE:
Stove with high collaps-
ible stand .... 102/6
Stove without collaps-
ible stand ..... 84/-
THE COLEMAN STOVE IS COMPLETE IN ITSELF.
Quick Hot-Blast Starter —Full cooking heat in one minute —any time, any
place. Uses common motor gasoline as fuel.
Built-In Pump —Right in end of tank; no chance to get lost or damaged.
Tank Always Connected —Swings on swivel hinge—outside for cooking,
inside when stove is packed for carrying.
Built-In Wind Baffle and Warming Cabinet —Makes cooking easy in any
weather. Keeps the scones warm while you fry the eggs and boil the
coffee.
Built-In Oven and Drum Heater —Just the thing for baking or broiling.
Built-In Funnel —Combined with fuel intake and hand-operated filler plug.
“LIGHT, HEAT AND COOK THE COLEMAN WAY”
For Your Next Trip!
We’ve got just the stove you’ll want
for your next camping, touring, fishing or
hunting trip! It’s the Coleman —the Camp
Stove years ahead! Makes camp cooking a
real pleasure instead of a hard job.
(olemanfamp Stove
The “Coleman” has many new features that •
will interest you.. Everyth’’ 'g built-in—Hot-
Blast Generator that gives full cooking heat m
2 minutes; Swinging Fuel Tank; Built-in Pump,
Oven, Wind Baffles, and Warming Cabinet.
Cooks anything you want, any style. Fuel is
common motor gasoline. Folds up like a suit-
case. Come in and see it
Lights and cooks in any wind. This Stove can be
lit anywhere—on a ship, on a pier, in a tent, in a
home, in a gale, in the rain. Full cooking heat
can be obtained in one minute. Coleman Camp
Stove bakes, roasts, fries, boils, toasts and grills.
Easy to set up, easy to start, easy to cook when-
ever you want and whatever you want.
COLEMAN QUICK-LITE
CO. OF AUSTRALIA
185 William Street, Mel-
bourne, Cl, Victoria.
718 Harris Street, Ultimo,
Sydney, N.S.W.
31 Bower Building, Charles
Street, Adelaide, S.A.
6®
Illustrating Stove with oven


Are Your Invest-
ments ROCKY?
MORE THAN HALF
OF ALL REGISTERED
COMPANIES FAIL.
<r
ONLY THE EXPERT
CAN READ THE SIGNS
Australia’s leading ex-
pert is
“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY.”
MARCH NUMBER ON SALE FRIDAY.
SINGLE COPY. 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
From Newsagents, or “Bulletin” Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
We stock -4- GF 4- Malleable Fitting 9 to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.— Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
In every class of industrial or rural fluid convey-
ance, Pioneer Wood Pipe has records of service that
daily add to its list of users. It is light, cheap,
easy to instal, non-corrosive and unaffected by rust,
fungus growth or electrolysis. Its capacity is never
reduced and once laid there is practically no upkeep
charge. Send for the latest data book. The Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near
Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at Foots-
cray, Victoria. — Advt.
* * * *
W. Soren Jensen, late Mt. Morgan G. M. Co.,
Consulting Mining Engineer, 33 Boyle Street, Cre-
morne, Sydney. Box 220 D, G.P.0., Sydney. Tel.
Y 1557. — Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hasssel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castiereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * =:= *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Cor.usoN & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MaDE.— Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt
* * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
GILT-EDGED SECURITY
FOR ALL
MOTORISTS.
Wf\
Wf '
P'x. €
Tf II *
SrSS
WONT FAIL YOU!
*‘Silver Edge”
“Gold Edge”
BRAKE
LINING
RAYEESTOS BELACO LTD.
LONDON.
Factory Representative*.
JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71. Melb.
V
YG
boord&so*
FINEST DRY GIN,
& OLD TOM 1
%
DT
• Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian A cents.
26 30 Clarence St.,
Sydney
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Offices Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in. Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-Glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone,
etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
fver for the profs, the balance was equal
tw'- ' P° r P a >d up ordinary capital.
Xnat is disregarding altogether the fixed
a s s ?l. s ’ winch have a written down book value
of T 2ls - 3d- per £1 of paid capital.
in 1919 shareholders received £45,522 of
bonus scrip and £22,761 in cash; thus with
the 1912 gift (£22,761) paid capital has
advanced from £45,522 to £113,547 without
shareholders being asked for a penny.
with the co.’s prospects and
satisfied that, under normal conditions, last
year s increased div. can be maintained, the
market lias revised its estimate of the scrip.
It now offers 40s. for both classes of shares;
they were around 31s. a year ago. The return
at the current price is 6 p.c. on a 12 p.c.
div basis. The prefs advance with the
ords. in any distribution beyond 5 p.c. and
have priority as to capital.
The New Era Insurance Co.
Excess
Income. Claims. Exes. Outgo. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
May, Preliminary exes., £2332 .. .. 2,332
1924.. 14,762 517 25,085 10,840 13,172
June,
1925*. 26,678 1126 32,163 6,611 19,783
1926.. 26,544 544 25,902 98f 19,685
1927.. 22,306 2165 27,953 7,812 27,497
Shares in other cos. written down,
£12,522 40,019
Transfer from general reserve, £7llO 32.9"09
1928.. 26,372 2323 33,990 9,941 42,850
*l3 months. t Excess income.
It is not necessary to look at that table
twice to know that the business is sick. The
co. was floated in Melbourne in 1923 by
Charles Watson, who became its managing
director. lie got £lOOO in cash, but no
further consideration, so the loading for
goodwill was not excessive to begin with.
But capital was difficult to attract, partly
because the market was already flooded with
the demands of other post-war insurance
floats.
In its first year the co. gathered £21,410
from shareholders, and the cost of selling the
scrip, etc., and of opening branches in Syd-
ney and Adelaide ran off with £13,172. For
the next couple of years the business moved
along quietly, showing faint signs of progress.
In 1925 the handful of accident and other
business was passed over to the Pioneer Life
and Accident Co., in winch a controlling
interest was bought. Then, in 1926, the
New Era’s path became strewn with diffi-
culties, largely the backwash from legal
actions in which the co. and some of its
officers were involved in N. S. Wales. Partly
because of this the business has since slipped
so badly that its recovery, if that can be
accomplished, will call for exceptionally skil-
ful nursing.
The co. set out to specialise in house pur-
chase policies. These are plain life assur-
ance plus the right of the assured to apply to
the co. for a property loan with a reasonable
margin of security, and usually at a slightly
lower rate of interest and for a longer term
than can be had on ordinary mortgages. It
is plain that a co. writing this class of
business needs a good deal of ready funds
if its policy-holders are not to be dis-
appointed. In a young co. with very heavy
exes, and establishment charges, it means,
amongst other things, getting capital in
big enough licks to tide it over the early
difficulties of development.
During the last term the business was
extended to Westralia ; an extra £12,090 of
capital was got in, making the amount paid
up £78,389 at June 30 last, when mortgages
and house and farm property stood in the
books at £11,823.
The co.’s tribulations are reflected in
extraordinarily heavy lapses, which, of
course, are a shocking waste to both the
co. and the assured. It is here that much of
the trouble lies. The following comparison
gives a pretty good idea of what lias hap-
pened in this and other respects:—
1925. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Policies . . 1,004 704 652 883
Amount . . £501,000 £310,550 £279,675 £360,475
First premiums 18,840 12,076 10,706 13,248
Total renewals 7,563 13,883 10,876 11,959
Interest, rents, etc. 275 585 723 1,165
Last year’s renewals were 55.4 p.c. of the
total premium income for the previous term,
and that is about the best experience to
date. In its five years of policy-writing
the co. has put on the books assurances
totalling £1,859,715, of which only £642,375
was in force at June 30 last.
Another difficulty which threatens trouble,
unless rapidly got in hand, is costs. Apart
from £12,522 written off shares in other
cos., but including £2500 put aside for
doubtful debts, last year’s exes, were 134.5
p.c. of the net premium income, compared
with 129.5, 99.8 and 122.1 p.c. back to 1925.
As for new business, assuming that it is
10 times more costly than old, then last
year’s £13,248 of first premiums were
gathered at a cost of 218 p.c. as against 238
p.c. and 192 p.e. in the two preceding years.
At June 30 last Actuary Gawler figured
the liabilities under policies at £32,389. His
report was not sent out with the sheet, so
the “Wild Cat” is unable to say what the
quality of the business in force is, or what
rate of interest it is assumed that the life
fund has to earn. At June 30. 1927, the
life fund stood at £9B. To make it equal
to policy liabilities, and after allowing for
the adjustment of asset values, etc., and the
year’s excess of expenditure, over income,
£47,644 was added to the intangibles, raising
the total to £75,239. The paid capital is
£78,389.
The position of policy-holders, as regards
the security for their contracts, together
with that of shareholders, is seen in this
next comparison of balance-sheet figures:—
1924. 1927. 1928.
Government securities.. £lO,OOO £15,936 £13,223
Mortgages . . . . • 1,550 5,100
Properties . . . . 6,723
Shares in other cos... 22,591 10,100
Loans on policies . . 848 1,565
Hook debts . . . . 1,157 10,422 10,182
Cash, etc 276 333 734
Equipment, etc. .. 2,774 8,150 3,787
Total tangible assets £14,207 £54,830 £51,414
Less liabilities (except
on policies) . . 5,901 10,398 15,586
Net tangible assets .. £8,306 £44,432 £35,828
Paid capital . . .. 21,416 66,299 78,380
Including £289 of items in suspense, etc.,
net tangible assets exceeded policy liabilities
at June 3u last by £3439. That is all that
was left of the £78,389 of paid capital,
which is in 10s. shares —73,765 prefs. and
102,472 ords. —there was £9730 unpaid and
uncalled. The prefs. have priority as to
capital and are entitled to a cumulative 8
p.c. p.a.
Doubt still exists ns to the quality of
some of the remaining assets. The auditor
has given his certificate subject to quali-
fications that are not disclosed in the direc-
tors’ report.
Unless the position in respect of lapses
and expenditure can be quickly remedied,
it will not be long before the board will
have to consider amalgamation with a more,
stable concern, or a straight-out sale of the
business.
Commonwealth 5| p.c. Loan.
Last week the Federal Government came
on to the local market for £7,060,000 of new
money, which the States want for public
works and the redemption of a few maturing
securities. The prospectus contains no
special features. The loan is a straight out
5} p.c. par issue, stock or bonds, redeemable
in 1939. Interest, which will be handed out
in January and July, is free of State income-
tax.
The A.M.P. gave the issue a flying start
by taking up a round million, and, as there
is no shortage of funds for the sounder in-
vestments, good support for the loan is
anticipated.
Over the last 12 months prices for all
of the best Stock Exchange securities have
strengthened and interest rates generally
liave hardened. The present average
return on Commonwealth stocks, except the
short-dated 6 per cents., is approximately
5J p.c. as against 5i p.c. a year ago.
Whether the movement is likely to continue
depends largely upon seasonal conditions,
Government borrowings and the attitude of
the banks in respect to financing speculative
operations. The point is worth considering
when buying long-dated securities. The
recent rise in the Bank of England discount
rate, however, had the immediate effect of
depressing values on London ’Change, though
Australian and Maoriland Government
stocks there were only slightly affected.
Woodburn Dome, Ltd.
This is a Sydney float to take over from
the Woodburn Oil and Mineral Syndicate
prospecting rights over 1700-odd acres at
Evans Head, between the Clarence and Rich-
mond rivers, on the N. S. Wales North
Coast. Nominal capital is £160,000 in 2s. 6d.
shares, of which a round million are offered,
payable in full on application. The vendors
take £17,000 in paids; the balance (144,000
shares) are in pickle. W. F. Roberts, the
co.’s consulting engineer, and C. C. Currie,
a petroleum technologist, both say that
geological features on the co.’s area are
favorable for oil finding. The oil sands are
expected to be met with around 2000 ft. The
co. intends, the prospectus says, to com-
mence drilling immediately on one of the
sites recommended, and arrangements are
being made for the sinking of a second bore.
Drilling costs are not expected to exceed £2
a foot, but the promoters are wise to seek
the means for sinking numerous holes.
The coal trade is discussed at length in
the “WILD Cat” Monthly for March, which
will be on sale at the bookstalls at the end
of this week. The position in other countries
is analysed and the possibility of recovering
our foreign trade weighed. There is a very
interesting “biography” of Richardson and
Wrench, Ltd.; and in addition to an analy-
sis of the position of 30-odd companies there
is a table showing the net value of the tan-
gible assets per share of all the principal
cos. listed on the stock exchanges of Aus-
tralia —an invaluable guide to the investor
who seeks safety.
Broken Hill wants to retain the lead in
its own branch of mining, and therefore
John Adam, who has become a force at the
Zinc Corporation as underground manager
and relieving superintendent since leaving the
Sons of Gwalia, and W. D. Whiteman,
underground manager of the British, will
leave very soon to look over the mines of
Canada and the U.S.A. to make sure that
they are abreast of things.
* * * *
Hopes of Leslie Urquhart and others
taking over Westralia's Braeside lead de-
posits have vanished. Several bores were
put down, and, although good values were
struck in one, prospects were not considered
good enough to warrant business. Two-
thirds of the cost of these bores was borne
by Urquhart and party, and one-third by the
State. Glowing reports about Braeside
reached Perth in the past. According to one
Government expert outcropping lodes were
visible for miles and in places assayed up to
SO per cent. lead. Apparently values taper
off rapidly at depth.
* * * *
If* Lake Yiew-llorseshoe amalgamation.
Market valuation of Lake View and Star is
about a million, yet a profit of only a few
hunurod pounds was made as a result of
treating i 2, <O9 tons during December and
January, and the patch of rich ore lately
opened up in Chaffers isn't likely to make
much difference to returns when the com-
parative poorness of ore in other parts of the
Lake View group is taken into account. As
regards Horseshoe, the estimated profit of
£lOO,OOO or more from the treatment of accu-
mulated tailings looks all right; but it has
to be remembered that laboratory tests are
not always conclusive as to costs.
* * * *
The English-owned Paringa Co., which
claims to be interested in promising ventures
in Bolivia, the Transvaal and at Kalgoorlie
(W.A.), seems to be able to get liberal
exemption at the latter place. Past perform-
ances and breathing time to raise more capi-
tal have been the pleas in the past. Now the
co. has succeeded in getting a further respite
from working conditions by alleging that if
a process being tested on a neighboring
property proves successful large bodies of
ore in the Paringa, which are unpayable
under present conditions, can be treated at
a profit.
$ * * $
month. A special series of reports on the
portion of the mine now being worked figure
revenue for three years, with tin at £225, at
£217,230, and costs for the same period at
£123,449, leaving a net profit of £93,781, or
not far short of double the co.’s capital. In
areas 1 and 2 it is estimated there are
3.249,000 yards, worth £344,500, or £184,G5S
net. The shovels should be able to handle
this ground in 3| years. Area No. 3 is yet
to be thoroughly tested, but on the old
borings it is estimated to contain 3,000.000
yards of payable ground. An offer has been
made by a Chinese syndicate to work this
area on a 20 p.c. tribute. Owen Williams,
lately general manager of Phin Soon, has
suggested a boring campaign and a complete
survey of reserves. Working costs, said to
have been thoroughly gone into, are put at
from 94d. to 10|d. with the shovels. This
is much below old figures.
Wiluna railway (W.A.) will be definitely
started in April and is tipped to be com-
pleted by the end of Sept. At the mine
plant and machinery are expected to be in-
stalled about the middle of 1930. At least
80 per cent, of the big ore reserves is declared
to be amenable to treatment by flotation,
which promises well for results when produc-
tion begins. Recently £6 ore was opened up
in the Happy Jack section of the property,
three quarters of a mile north of the main
workings.
* * * *
Following its usual custom, Austral Malay
has forecasted probable dividend payments in
connection with its four producing subsi-
diaries for the current year. Ivampong
Kamunting, which has a paid capital of
£70,000 in 10s. shares, expects to dish out 4s.
per share. It is a big drop from the Bs. per
share of a couple of years ago, when the
metal averaged £291 per ton, but should
give shareholders no cause for tears. The
present market price of the scrip is around
225. Asam Kumbang, which paid 295. 6d.
on each of its 100,000 pound shares during tliq,
first seven years of its working life, expects
to do no better than 2s. this year. The scrip
was recently on offer at 40s. Ulu Yam,
which not long ago talked of Bs. annual dis-
tributions on its 100,000 £1 shares and paid
a total of Bs. 6d. for its first three working
years, will for the current term be content
with a modest Is. 6d. a share. Sellers want
31s. 6d. for the scrip. Thabawleik, which
has a paid capital of £lOO,OOO, had a bit of
a dead horse to work off, but has been return-
ing high yardage values for some time, though
turnover has been short of the dredge’s esti-
mated capacity. It is expected that 2s. will
be handed out this year. Sellers ask 445.
for the pound shares. Austral Malay itself,
which has a couple of other subsidiaries not
yet producing, is calling canny and expects
to distribute onlv 2s. 6d. a share. Its paid
capital is £lOO,OOO, of which £BO.OOO repre-
sents bonus scrip. Holders ask 90s. for the
pound shares.
* * * *
New Fliin Soon, a co. floated to take over
the old Phin Soon open-cast mine, has issued
its prospectus. A. J. King and F. Munro,
directors of the old co., are on the board
of the new one, which has a subscribed copi-
tal of £52,500 in 175,000 shares of 6s. each
—the old co.’s paid capital was £175,000.
The vicissitudes of the original show are
familiar to “Wild Cat” readers. Satisfac-
tory working methods have been the problem.
Recoveries have been consistently high, but
turnover was small and handling with the
old-fashioned appliances costly. The inten-
tion now is to instal a couple of Bucyrus
electrically-operated diggers, which are ex-
pected to handle a total of 80,000 yards per


\mv>
&
w]")
m
nn
m
'"////
m
m
k
m.
m
mm
r 'i
\1
({lips?
m
m
s
■V-'
Pb'
m
1
1
5^
v
HAR-DT'S
SJPA RKLIJVG


fcsaaasfSfeiSss
,
■X* *
■ ■
■
Vfe 1
V .<•
M
*■'&
V!
m
1 '
m
■
<Si
-ft?*--
i< .Mi
J
>* f:
if
*w
■ .**
-/•/
*
7
1, * S
//'
&•!
Stud ewes on Dalkeith, N.S.W., feeding on Meggitt s Nuts.
if
A Fibre Ball (actual size), together with the section of a smaller ball, taken
from the second stomach of a sheep which had been on dry, harsh feed for
some months. In all, seven balls were found in the stomach.
Feeding Fibre Costs You Pounds!
The great majority of grasses, when dry, contain from 30 per cent,
to 45 per cent. Fibre. Continuous feeding on such pasture leads to
Impaction, which is really a condition of inflammation and consti-
pation caused by excess of Fibre. In some cases the Fibre “balls
up,” as above. The result is unsound wool, light fleeces, lack of
condition in wool, poor lambings, poor milk flow and many deaths
due to malassimilation of nourishment.
Impaction can be definitely overcome by feeding
MEGGITT’S LINSEED SHEEP NUTS
The Linseed Oil content of this food lubricates the digestive tract
and enables excess fibre to be eliminated. This fact, together with
the high feeding value of Meggitt’s Nuts (three times that of oats)
makes it a profitable proposition to feed Meggitt’s to all classes of
sheep when grass is dry.
FEED MEGGITT’S IT PAYS!
Commonwealth Distribution:
NEW SOUTH WALES: Meggitt
Limited, 26 King Street,
Sydney; and all Pastoral
Houses or Agents.
VICTORIA: New Zealand Loan
and Mercantile Agency Co.,
Ltd., Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Branches.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder,
Smith and Co., Ltd., Currie
Street, Adelaide, and Branches.
TASMANIA: F. W. Heritage ana
Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart and
Launceston.
C JZimited
HEAD OFFICE, 26 KING ST., SYDNEY
\Oortis; Parramatta. NSVU 'Melbourne. Victoria • Port Adelaides A I •v'
o)ic boy on the hay
guarantees quality*
m yAe boy ori (he boo
guarantees quality
Commonwealth Distribution:
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder,
Smith and Co., Ltd., St.
George’s Terrace, Perth, and
Branches. Sub-distributor 3,
Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd.,
Perth.
QUEENSLAND: All Pastoral
Houses and Agents; also Den-
hams, Ltd., Brisbane; Denham
Bros., Ltd., Rockhampton;
Cummins and Campbell, Ltd.,
Townsville and Cairns;
Corser and Co., Maryborough


“WARWICK”
Riding
Trousers
12 6 F* a ' r -
Th ree Pairs for
35/-
</l
POST FREE
t&tlail to “Desk \S.'3’
stating Sizes
A tough customer, in
OlrOe Shade Twill.
Stockman cut. Cross
Pockets and Loops.
A Great Wearer.
fsd
PIKE
BROTHERS - LIMITED.
In Queen Street—
BRISBANE (Q’ld.)
STONEWALL” I
SHOES for MEN
CREPE RUBBER
SOLES
81214. —In High-Grade
Black Calf. Crepe Rubber
Welted Soles. Half sizes.
27/6
In Tan Calf, 29/6.
Postage, 1/-; Interstate, 1/8.
JACKSON'S L?
"STONEWALL" STORES
Cnr Pitt £ Goulburn S ts Sydney
m
Write Desk B for Catalogue
SlMacleay St.
Limited
The Company will transfer its
business to the new Private Hotel
in Greenknowe Avenue, Potts
Point, in March, 1929, where it
will feature Central Heating,
Private Baths and Telephones to
each room.
Unsurpassed Harbor Views.
Inclusive Tariff from £5/5/-
per week, or £l/1/- per day.
Bed and Breakfast from
£4/4/- per week, or 16/-
per day.
For appointment to view 'phone
F 2161 (4 lines). Telegraphic
Address: Fifmac, Sydney.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
‘'Darken” : The shearers had come to town
and the air was heavily stoush-laden. Yet
old Brickie Joe could not find an opponent.
As a last resource he doffed his coat and
dragged it by the sleeve through the crowd.
“I’ll fight anyone in the town,” he roared ;
“and the first blighter that steps on this is
the one!” A gigantic woolpresser put afoot
on it. Brickie looked up at him. “C’n y’
fight?” he demanded. “Yes,” said the other.
“C’mon then,” said Brickie, with a flash of
inspiration; “we’ll fight any two in the
town!”
* * * *
“Bushytail”: Australian Zoos get some
queer reinforcements at times; among a con-
signment of Javanese fauna deli-
vered at the Melbourne institution
this month were 20 “cannibal
squirrels.” These repulsive mem-
bers of the brute creation, accord-
ing to a noted naturalist, “make a
concerted attack on the
selected to supply the rest with a
meal” —or a portion of one, for
only the brain and a small part of
the head is devoured. Twenty-four
of them left Java in a stoutly-
wired cage, but one-sixth met their
unnatural doom en route, though
the tiny beasts were well fed with
fruit, nuts and other of their
natural provender. If there is
anything calculated to develop
their unengaging practices, it will
surely be enforced captivity. In
some of the vaults of Dublin theru
are said to be spiders which have
subsisted on no diet but one an-
other for centuries —flies naturally
giving these catacombs a wide
berth —but the spider has always
been regarded as almost the last
word in insect loathsomeness,
whereas the ordinary squirrel is
one of the most captivating of all
the rodent tribe.
tl> Sk
“Maunga”: Wo were using the bar at the
Shearers’ Arms for the purposes for which
it was intended, when the door swung open
and in stalked a monstrous goose, bedecked
from beak to tail with rosettes and ribbons.
A long pink streamer was fastened to its
neck. Holding the other end, there followed
a little roley-poley man with a map of Ire-
land face. “A pint an’ a half pint, an’ little
froth,” was his salutation. The half-pint
was put carefully on the floor for the goose,
which drank with as much gusto as did its
master. “Gintlemen,” the little man then an-
nounced, “behold Beau Murphy and his cili-
brated shtallion gander! We thravel the
country from ind to ind, and the proginy
of me bu-r-rd is scattered far-r and wide. If
there’s inywan here wishful to improve the
breed av his flock we can be found for. the
nixt coupla days at the bind av the river.
Come on wid ye. Brian, me bhoy” ;. and the
goose studmaster led his beer-loving bird
away.
“Questo”: That lung-fish, the ceratodus,
isn’t quite as uncommon as “Copabella
(B. 23/l/ , 29) thinks. The Queensland
Museum authorities transferred a number
from the Burnett to several other Queens-
land rivers, including the Upper Coomera.
They are under Government protection.
About 12 years ago some were placed the
Eunogera reservoir and forgotten. These
multiplied, and about the middle of last year
about 20 of them were caught there by the
Museum people.
* * * *
You never can tell where the next scrap of
information will come from. On Noal ‘
“Speero” asked in this column where Ter-
THE DEAR MITE!
THE LADY: “If you don’t go away at once I’ll call my husband.”
TRUCULENT TRAMP: “Wot, ’itn, gardenin’? Why, if I was to corf he’d hop back into
the cheese.”
rible Hollow really is—the locale of the
great cattle-duffing incident in “Robbery
Under Arms.” This reply comes from the
Manor House, Asliby-de-la-Zouch. Leicester-
shire, and is from Mr. Charles F. Hill:
I met Rolf Boldrewood in Melbourne in 1910, and
asked him about the site of Terrible Hollow, which
I had been told was in the Blue Mountains. He
informed me that the place is in New England,
and that it is much as he described it,, and a
place where horse thieves used to “plant” their
stolen horses.
* * * *
“Billy See”: We were running up the
Ninety Mile Beach to Roebuck Bay (W.A. 1
when the wind dropped dead and
we lay becalmed for a couple ot
days. The weather was hot and
there were wages and shore leave
for the crew at Broome, not to
mention beer; so, for a considera-
tion paid'by the crew, old Tilla-
burra, our tame abo. medicine man,
undertook to raise a wind, iaking
a piece of petrol case, he fashioned
a little fiat boat about the size of
his hand. This he covered with
mystic grooves, scoring the pattern
in with a sharp stone, one of his
few belongings. With the same
stone he whittled a tiny mast,
scraping the shreds up to the top
so that they formed a crest much
like a chrysanthemum. The crow
came next —three big cockroaches
from the schooner’s hold. These
were pinned down, one at the bow
and one at each corner of the stern.
Then, muttering incantations, the
magician launched his craft.
Caught by the current it imme-
diately started off, followed by the
eager eyes of the crew. Just, then
our skipper came on deck with a
rifle; usually he potted sharks and
porpoises, but none of these being
in sight, he drew a bead on the
magic boat, shattering it to pieces
in ■ one shot. The wind-raiser was
horrified. “My word, he said,
“you do it now ! Devil-wind come
now ” That night a gale came up
which nearly put the schooner on
the beach, and it was over a week
before we staggered into Broome,
glad to escape with our lives.
# * *
“Madame Maloney”: The spirit of
Crooked Mick has been bothering me. I oor
soul! He passed away m 1906, having i over-
exerted himself in a contract to pull the
gum-trees out of a great large selection
four miles square, and him with nothing but
his two arms and twisted spine to cope with
them tough eucalypts. He battled hard, he
tells me breasting up to one after anothei
of them,’ and tearing them out by the roots.
But there was one had grown crooked—a huge
big monster it was, and its roots all gnarled
under a thousand tons of rock —and it defied
him. There’s been things said about him in
The Bulletin of late that have pained him,
poor dear, they’re that exaggerated and. dis-
torted, like his own back-bone; but this is
the truth of his end, and he lays it on me to
reveal it all. He heaved on this old gum-tree,
that was so crooked, and suddenly his verty-
what-d’ye-call-it straightened out with a
snap and he bumped his head against the
trunk with a fearful crash that put him in a
swoon. Then the great tree heeled slowly
over and piled earth and rock all over him
so that he could not breathe, and there he
lies to this day. Them that says he was
buried in a cemetery knows nothing about it,
for there was no priest in the vicinity when
he met his end, and where his body lies he
could not tell me. I came out of my trance
before he got that far.
* * * *
“Hayband”: The station-manager had sent
a second man to assist with some ring-
barking. For some days the first continued
with the cooking, but then suggested that the
new arrival should have ago at it. He
jibbed. “You’re a better cook than I am,”
lie said. A few days later a change was again
proposed and once more turned down. To
try to force him to do his share he com-
menced to turn out poor dampers. The new-
comer ate them without complaint. The
unwilling cook produced poorer samples—
villainous, soggy masses which would have
upset a crocodile, and which he himself
hated. Still there was a disheartening lack
of complaint. At last he threw up the
battle and turned out a feather-weight
beauty. Said the new man: “What went
wrong with the damper? It’s full of wind-
galls. I like those puddeny ones best!”
* * * *
“Pick”: Captivity does not kill the mating
instinct in wild animals. When, in 1926,
Sam Itolfe left the forested Snowy to settle
at Jincumbilly in the centre of the Bibben-
luke plains, amongst the stock removed with
him was a pet doe kangaroo. The creature
seemed afraid of the open expanse, and for
months would not leave the doorstep. Then
one night she disappeared. A collar on her
neck identified her when, two weeks later, she
wandered in to Thoko station, 19 miles to
the eastward. Later she was seen in the
paddocks of Creawali, where there were wild
kangaroos, and then one morning she was
found again gambolling amongst the pod-
died sheep at Jincumbilly. In course of time
a joey was born. It, too, was a doe, and
last November the young doe, with its
mother, took a month’s sojourn among the
wooded hills of Creawah.
* * * *
“Eureka”: I was camped on the Candelo
mountain and one afternoon I had the fire
set and the billy hanging ready. A vivid
flash of lightning came just as I was feeling
in my pockets for a match and the blaze
temporarily blinded, me. When I regained
my sight a few seconds later the fire was
alight and the billy boiling. The lightning
must have boiled the water because the
fire could not have done it in the few seconds
that elapsed between the time the lightning
ignited the wood and when I regained my
sight.
(Continued on page 25.)
THE SLEEPING LAND
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now see the far-flung North whose eastern
shores
Face the long Barrier Reef. Who loves
the land
And sea must worship as the launch moves on
Past the dark wooded hills, past coral floors,
Infrequent stretches of deep yellow sand,
And sea caves where the sun has never
shone.
Beyond Port Douglas how the wild tides rip
With a cool hand upon each frothing mane,
Bursting and tumbling o’er the black-green
rocks
Where starry jasmines to the salt spray
slip
And purple-amber orchids downward rain,
Garbing with bloom the sombre granite
blocks.
Mark the tall headlands melting into space
Guarding the lonely land. Beyond them lies
Mountain and plain and valley, lake and
stream,
Hundreds of fertile miles, and many a place
Of fairy beauty, gemmed with butterflies,
Gay panoramas, lovely as a dream.
In long dim cloistered aisles of fig and palm
And plumey tree-ferns Beauty lies alone,
Enchanted, breathing, sweet and fast asleep
Beneath soft branches, wrapped in dappled
calm.
All alien sound, all trace of man has flown,
And time is drugged. The little minutes
creep
Stretching to days and years. There is no
breath
Of change—the very trees the same; the same
Wind sighs and ripples on the lotus lake;
The same bird notes. There is nor stir
nor death.
A magic land, untouched by song or fame.
Waiting some secret word —to turn and
wake.
HIS PART.
THE MISSUS: “I’m glad to see you and Mary speaking to each other again, Jacky!"
JACKY: “No fear, Missus; this pfeller only listenin’.”
The launch has stopped, and Cooktown’s
lonely ways
Smile at the dreamer where the river slips
Into the sea, and furrowed rocks stand black
Against a primrose sky. Oh, peaceful days
Remembered, touching eyes and heart and
lips
With benediction! Dear! I’m coming lack.
QUEENSLAND.
BLACK BONNET.


the Tyre of To-day
on the Road of To-morrow!
:=3V
I ""X
X
>W
r '- rfi-|
\
T^Cb'izdl
*8
x/
m ,vv=^=*
5> -
wi m
%
-?~r,-7-Ttr .M7T, rf9
\/
. \
i- 7
\
\ ;>-
caw
V^'
=a
V \
ss.:>
i. =
\ vy*\
CLX "7?
'c-
m r— ii-
Njl/
:se&»
3/V
;=■• "4
X . v*\'
* X~Xr
s?>
lit?
/=/ ::
; — r .* T>
~:A\
\ \
O* .
V\\ CSW ll f
r
= . iJxN
•s>o
TXXSApI i. iplv.
£
N
f-*Sr
\
”~i«, r r :
* o
v N - \ _ * w \ r»
W
Yr^.
r
'u~b ':-3xX-' >
- ■ -‘if 4\
\\
— uvi 1
Xr
-., -v
vr
\ '
X
\ V\\\v,
\_ ',.
// %_
l— il
77 AN i \/ Mv
\ y-Xrif
\
u
~^v
7 r-
x\ -
sr\
■w i
v-4« .
XXWAV'
~ \t r* \\
:x \-«i ti
//X
<f/V 1
7/m
V.
/ .
// f
m
h*
\
V
-_
r or— -'tif
%
\ A
\>r^
'ii
u
\ \ \
i* —,
iTBVJ
L \ t?
~sh> *
. «
i
x.\!
i'.-t
X
NS
r f^g-
\\\l J&\~
i4f|s
\ \ •- ~'^ :
b -ju.cSa-j
P
4
/</$ /;/7777# ///7777/f S
m
&
Xx
\\
X 1
-X-/
• M fe
w/ A
\
?- Xv
/ /A,
N\
'IxW
// >-LU-t W'JZUL
r «!4-\ N
r\V>
'vs
m
DUNLOP
paves the way to
better motoring
5000 GARAGES
STOCK THEM


PEAPES
Clothe men AND their sons.
Peapes’ is essentially a men’s
centre. Located as it is, not in
the general shopping area, but
in George Street, exactly
opposite Hunter Street, it is in
the midst of the men’s office
section of the city—most con-
venient, and always displaying
something new and exclusive.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
f
T he purest tobacco only,
wrapped in snow-white
paper without any trimmings
has made <(C Uhe Qreys” the
best ‘Virginia Cigarette.
It’s the Tobacco that matters
io for 9«L CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
MAJOR DRAPKIN & CO. Branch of the United Kinsdom Tobacco Co. Ltd. [NSG9
sd
Despair
in the ranks of the rabbit
j results in
Delight
among the men who get the
skins if the consignment is
sent to Winchcombe Carson
for sale. They are specialists
in the sale of all classes of skins.
They sell them on commission only, never buying nor
dealing. Top market prices for skins are their
constant aim.
Consign Rabbit, Fox and all other Skins to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
Winchcombe House, or 99-101 Eagle St.,
Bridge St., Sydney, Brisbane.
WANTED IT SHORTER.
MUM: “Before you start milking this morning, John, light a fire in the laundry.
am going to wash to-day.”
JOHN: “Aw right, mum, and I hope it shrinks.”
“Black Tracker": For a number of years
two individuals who said they were brothers
regularly turned up at shearing time in the
south-eastern district of S.A. and took their
places in the leading sheds. As both were
splendid shearers and quiet inoffensive fel-
low’s they w’ere always welcomed. They
didn’t like company. In order not to mix
with the others they always brought their
own tent and cooking utensils. One day just
as a big shed at Naracoorte was cut out, one
of them met with an accident that necessi-
tated hospital treatment. On arrival the dis-
covery was made that this very competent
shearer was a woman, and, instead of being
the other’s brother, she was his wife, as the
marriage certificate, promptly produced,
proved. When she left the hospital they did
not return to the district, but took to the
backblocks of Queensland on the same game.
* # * *
“Mako”: One of those mysterious big
waves which every now and then form off
the Maoriland coast hit a beach at Kaipara
the other day, and almost accounted for one
of the young daughters of ex-Premier Coates
in its mighty backwash. Rescuers salvaged
the child and others who were in peril. The
origin of these waves, known to the Maoris
as “devil’s water,” is a matter of contro-
vei’sy, but investigators an* inclined to regard
them as the result of distant marine up-
heavals. They will arise out of the calmest
sea and rush towards the shore in a great
green wall, carrying everything before them,
overwhelming picnickers and beach strollers
who have not seen their onslaught. Fisher-
men on the reefs and those who know the
coastal peculiarity keep a sharp look-out.for
them and dash for some secure ledge or
embrace a rock and hang on grimly until the
worst danger, which is the tremendous back-
wash, is over. These waves are entirely a
West Coast phenomenon.
* # * *
“Flor”: The best cat ever I had was Toby,
a little grey tom. In a lonely hut in Queens-
land he was for long my only companion
while I worked a mine with a mate who
lived on the other side of the range. „ He
would beg for food; gallop to me when I
gave a special whistle, and warn me of the
approach of a snake by emitting a loud,
throaty hiss. If I slept a bit late in the
morning he would wake me with a soft paw
on face or arm. A wild cat was my pet’s
enemy, and poor Toby would rush home
sometimes considerably torn and clawed
about. I laid for the wild fellow and put
a bullet through him. I carried the dead
body to the hut and threw him down before
Toby to show him that his enemy could
harm him no more. Toby made no move-
ment, so I picked him up and placed him
by the dead cat, which at that moment con-
tracted a muscle in one hind leg. Toby
sprang from my hands and bolted into the
scrub. He never returned to the hut. Every
THE TALKIES.
morning for three days he came down
through the scrub to the track which I tra-
velled to the mine, and would mew to me
most pitifully, but never allowed me to get
within 20 yards. Then he disappeared, and
I never saw him again. Did he fear I was
going to hand him over to his enemy, or
that, having embarked on a career of cat-
murder, I might choose him as the next
victim?
* * * *
“Pias”: “El V” (B. 21/11/’2B) must be
misinformed regarding the proposed ordin-
ance in ex-German New Guinea that natives
are to wear shirts in addition to the lap lap
or loincloth. Very few have shirts
or could buy them, and those few are
generally taxi-drivers, who come into con-
tact with women and children in the per-
formance of their duties, and head mission
boys. Otherwise, shirt wearing is frowned
upon as presumptuous. As a rule, the church-
going house- or work-boy surreptitiously bor-
rows one of his master’s shirts and dons it
in order to present a respectable appearance
at lotu. After the recent disturbance in
Rabaul this was discontinued by the inter-
vention of a police officer, who intercepted
the coons on their way to worship and
ordered the removal of the garments.
* * * *
“Cobar”: Few residents of Noumea and
still fewer Australians are aware of the
origin of the impression on the Noumean
postage stamp. The die was taken from a
photograph of a cagou bred in Sydney. The
cagou ( Lat . kagu) is a bird that takes seven
years to mature, and lays only one egg per
year. From six eggs sent to R. Finckh, of
Mosman, five birds were reared, only one of
which lived for over two years. A photograph
of the survivor was sent to the Noumean
resident who supplied the eggs. The Noumean
Government then asked Mr. Finckh to give
particulars of the habits of the bird, and
announced its intention of adopting the
cagou as a postage-stamp device. A pamph-
let was prepared by Mr. Finckh and sent to
the Noumean authorities, who reciprocated
with a letter of thanks and a complete set
of Noumean stamps. The cagou is a native
of Noumea, but the birds are so scarce that
practically nothing was known of their
habits until the results of Mr. Finckli’s study
were made known.
* * •* *
“H.I-I.”: Several efforts of misguided
pioneers to provide for future sport and pic
got the rabbit pest started in Australia; but
another pest (which likewise has its profit-
able side), the blackberry, started from a
single plant. Philip Oakden, of Launceston,
brought a small plant from England in a
flower-pot in 1843. It established itself so
quickly that shortly people from all the other
settlements were begging for slips and
suckers. Pest as it is, the plant, growing
in'olifically on the N.S.W. South Coast, sup-
plies a handsome supplement to the incomes
of the families of miners and others.
* * * *
“Colub”: In many parts of far-western
N. S. Wales, where waterholes ' mostly have
steep sides, one of the cui*ses of the pastoral-
ist is the snake which falls into a dam while
in search of water and, being unable to get
out, is drowned, so that its decomposing body
pollutes the water and prevents stock from
touching it. To avoid this it is common
to put snake ladders along the sides of the
tanks. These are poles, with slats nailed
crosswise on them at intervals of a foot or
so, one end of which is on the bank and
the other in the water, and their purpose is
to allow a snake to extricate itself. In a
dry season the reptiles make for the dams
in dozens, and there is no odor quite as bad
as that of a rotting snake. It will keep
cattle away from a waterhole for months.
jje $ sfc H*
“A.8.C.”: Anyone had a ringtail’s tail
twisted around his finger? I have. This
is ho-vy it happened. Staying in Tasmania,
on the north-west coast, I was sleeping in
a room which opened on to a verandah. I
woke up suddenly in the moonlight. On my
chest sat a ringtail, looking at me. I seized
it. and it twisted its tail around one of my
fingers. I tried to pull it off, but my finger
was held as in a vyce. I got out of bed, and
for half an hour I struggled with the per-
sistent little quadruped. Then in despair I
went to my daughter’s room, woke the kiddie,
who was a keen nature student, and asked
her to help me out of my predicament. She
sat up sleepily: “Oh, just stoop down so its
feet can rest on the verandah floor and. it’ll
run away,” said she. I followed directions,
and the moment the little creature felt the
boards it relaxed its tail and ran away.
* * * *
“Erua”: The Danish expedition sailing
round the world in the Dana is taking away,
as one of its trophies, a tiny fish bearing, a
lamp in its infinitesimal head, the light being
the female’s method of attracting her mate.
Some years ago a boy fishing on a dark night
near the Great Barrier Island in the
Hauraki Gulf (M.L.) hung a small lantern
over the side of his dinghy. Shortly after
he was astonished to notice approaching his
light through the water a procession of tiny
stars, and leaning over he dipped his bailer
into the sea and caught about a dozen of the
lights. Then each light revealed itself as a
little fish with a lamp in its head. A number
of illuminated fish ladies had arrived to
investigate the light which so powerfully
outshone their modest efforts. The little
creatures couldn’t stand captivity. Their
lamps gradually dimmed, and though re-
newals of sea water revived them slightly
they died altogether, as did the small
wearers, the second day.
SAID THE WHALER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Said the whaler: “We was trampin’
’Cross the plain,
Peelin’ done an’ tit for campin’,
But ’twas vain,
For we couldn’t sight no water.
'Struth, the ’eat-wave was a snorter! —
Made us mop up all we’d carried
From the tank where we ’ad tarried
On the dusty track an’ dry.
Take my word ’twas pretty rough ter
Find at' last we’d not enough ter
Wet yer eye!
“We was out beyond the ’Bidgee,
Me an’ Ben,
An’ we struck a clump o’ gidgee
Scrub, an’ then
Started goin’ sorter dilly—
Each of us dropped swag an’ billy
An’ began to rave an’ ramble
An’ among the scrub to scramble ;
When a cloud commenced to form,
Not much bigger than a hanky—
But we prayed it was a blanky
Thunderstorm.
“Well, we each was like a goner
In the d.’s —
Both of us was crawlin’ on our
’Ands an’ knees!
Round in crazy circles turnin’
While the flamin’ sun was burnin’....
When there came a sudden roarin’
An’ the rain began a-pourin’.
’Twas a cloudbust! Then a flash
Knocked us flat the gidgee under,
Nearly deafened, too, with thunder—
Wot a crash!
“Well, we crawled out shakin’ queerly
In the mud,
When we saw a sight that nearly
Stopped our blood!
Was we mad, or was we dreamin’?
There stood our tivo billies steamin’!
Bubblin’ side be side together.
Gripes, I nearly slipped me tether!
Wot yer think o’ this, me lad?
Fust the rain ’ad filled the pair, an’
Then the lightin’ struck ’em fair an’
Boiled ’em mad !
“Well, we sat upon our swags, an’
Ben an’ me
Opened up our tuckerbags an’
Made some tea....
Saved our lives! My oath, you’ve said it!
An’ if you don’t like to credit
Wot I’ve told, out past the ’Bidgee
Yer can find the clump o’ gidgee
Just ter show me words is true.
An’ to prove ’em past denyin’
There’s the blanky plain still lyin’
Out there, too!'”
MAORILAND.
RIVLMNA.


Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
r Phe right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Married man (27) wants position on cattle-
01- sheep-station. Handy with tools, good
at cement work, can make galvanised-iron
tanks, milk, kill and ride. —8903.
Young lady, Brisbane, seeks position as
travelling companion to lady. Cultured, con-
tralto. voice, secretarial experience, educated
and companionable.—8910.
Returned soldier, Sydney, desirous of
establishing bag-wash laundry, seeks partner
prepared to offer financial assistance. Excel-
lent character and ability.—8911.
English lady and daughter (39 and 19),
Sydney, would like to correspond with
Bulletin readers about same age.—8893.
Man with extensive knowledge of farmers
and graziers’ requirements desires position
as traveller or canvasser, N.S.W. or Vic.
References. —8892.
Lad (16) would like to correspond with
Bulletin readers same age in Australia or
overseas. (To C. MacCallum, 82 llarcourt-
street, New Farm, Brisbane, Q.)
Yoling married couple desires position on
N.T. or N.Q. station, no experience but
willing to learn.—8879.
Returned soldier, Sydney, wants work of
any description; circumstances desperate;
holds electric- and hydraulic-lift certificate;
has been caretaker, cleaner, watchman,
laborer. Capable, good appearances, refs.—
8866.
Young man (23), Tasmanian, 5 years’ ex-
perience station work, past three years station
store and book-keeper, drive car, desires
similar position.—8853.
Young man, N.S.W., capable and energetic,
wants share-farming arrangement (wheat),
thirds basis. Used to tractor and horses. —
S856.
Author (38), with war disability, requiring
restful surroundings, would be grateful for
quiet quarters (N.S.W.) where he could
write in peace. Would act as caretaker, or
would perform secretarial, gardening or any
liaht services. Temperate and trustworthy.—
8951.
Young man (21). good education, wants
any sort of position in Pacific Islands or
Malay States. —S797.
Have several acres vegetable land on pro-
perty 50 miles from Sydney; applications
invited from sober growers, half-shares; must
build own hut. —8851.
New Zealander (29), single, qualified
accountant, company-promoting and selling
experience, desires position anywhere. Aus-
tralia, Islands. —8933.
Artist, to illustrate a dozen good jokes,
50-50.—S940.
Young man, N.S.W., experienced wants
situation on wheat farm or station.—8942.
Girl (17), Vic., well educated, wants
position library or office. —8947.
Young English war widow, excellent cook,
daughter (12), desires position as mana-
geress of cafe or on sheep-station, N.S.W. or
W.A.—8948.
Young man with small capital as partner
to grow tomatoes, three acres. Manly dis-
trict. —8921.
Barmaid (29) English and Australian ex-
perience, wants position preferably Queens-
land or Pacific Islands; inured to Tropics.—
8889.
To buy copy of “The Child’s Guide to
Knowledge,” also copy of each Royal Reader
used in Vic. State schools 1884. —8821.
To buy or borrow, Kirk’s “Forest Flora of
New Zealand.” (To Bertha Maxwell, Dun-
das, N.S.W.)
To buy or lease small farm or piece of
land with access to permanent freshwater
lagoon. Must be good duck-shooting. Tall
trees appreciated ; Central Q’land preferred.
—8906.
To exchange couple dozen fox-trot and one-
step songs (recent publications) for similar
number of waltzes or waltz songs. Recent
or otherwise. —8868.
Words of “Barbwire’s Murray Cod.” (To
George Glover, Wills-street, Peterhead, S.A.)
Words and music, or words only, of
“Delaney’s Donkey.” (To Hon. Sec., Ama-
teur Theatrical Society. Mullumbimby,
N.S.W.)
Words of “The Two Sinners,” by Malcolm
McGregor.—8949.
Information Sought.
(1) Any vacancies for clerks in the New
Guinea Government service? (2) Would,
it he advisable for a person with clerical
experience to <jo there on the chance of
yetting private employment? —8541.
(1) Not at present. As they occur from
time to time they are advertised. (2)
Highly inadvisable.
(1) Necessary qualifications for position
as shire or council engineer in N.S.W. and
where information as to study, exams., etc.,
can he obtained? (2) How to obtain such
a position? —8720.
(1) Get pamphlet from Local Govern-
ment Exam. Committee, Local Government
Department, 9-18 Bligh-street, Sydney. (2)
Apply to advertisements —all vacancies are
advertised.
How to preserve fruit in tvater? —8571.
In preparing it, apricots are halved;
peaches are peeled, stoned and halved or
sliced; pears, apples or quinces are peeled,
halved and cored. The other stone fruits,
such as plums and cherries, are preserved
whole, as also are the berry fruits. The pre-
pared fruits must be packed or filled into
jars or tins, which have been washed clean
with hot water, drained and dried. The jars
or tins should be filled to overflowing with
water which has been boiled and has been
allowed to cool off a little, and then stood
in a boiler fitted with a false perforated
bottom, preferably of wood, water being
poured into the boiler to within about an
inch of the top of the fruit containers and
brought to the boil. The time fruit in the
jars will take to cook depends on the kind
and the ripeness. Fifteen to twenty mintues
will cook fairly ripe apricots, but plums
need much longer and quinces longer still.
Beginners had better test the texture of the
fruits, and as they soften to pressure with
a spoon or fork finish up the cooking. If
the water has boiled out at all, fill the fruit
containers to overflowing with boiling water;
fix on the rubbers and lids of jars or press
down the lids of the tins; fasten the former
securely by screwing the lids or tightening
the clamps and then wipe the outsides as
the vessels are stood aside to cool off. Avoid
standing or lifting glass jars about in air
draughts whilst they are very hot. Tins do
not matter in this respect. Success depends
on sterilising the contents of the containers
and rendering them quite airtight whilst
still near boiling point.
(1) Qualifications for the position of
engineer on a tin- or gold-dredging plant?
(2) A suitable course to take in Victoria
uyith that end in view? —B7o7.
(1) A sound practical knowledge of the
construction and working of dredging plants,
of testing areas and methods of saving tin
and gold. (2) Diploma of Mining Engineer-
ing (Working Men's College, Melbourne) or
Mining Engineering course (Melbourne Uni-
versity). Full particulars can be secured
from the institutions themselves.
(1) Will myall, wilga, whitewood or kurra-
jong grow from cuttings? (2) If not, are
seeds obtainable and where? (3) Which of
these four trees is the quickest grower ? —
8741.
(1) They may, but they have not been
grown from cuttings in Government nur-
series. (2) Seeds can be got from any
representative seedsman. They should be
planted in nursery beds and transplanted dur-
ing the following winter into permanent
situations. (3) Whitewood is the fastest
grower, followed by wilga, kurrajong and
myall in that order.
Why does our galah parrot chew his
icings? He has stripped the feathers to the
bone, and nibbles the bones, and as a result
cannot fly. At the same time he is very
droopy and off his food? —8531.
It is a common practice with caged birds.
There is really no cure, and the only satis-
factory course to adopt is to liberate the
parrot. With caged birds it is advisable to
place a piece of hard wood in the cage to
distract the bird’s attention from picking
its feathers.
Where to enter for training as an obstetric
nurse in Sydney? Conditions? —Bßß2.
The two main obstetric training hospitals
in Sydney are the Royal Hospital for
Women, Paddington, and the Women’s Hos-
pital, Crown-street. The course for an un-
trained applicant is 12 months, and for a
general trained nurse six months. No fees
are payable, and the course includes board
and lodging, laundry, lectures, etc. Further
particulars can be obtained from either hos-
pital.
Recipe for making home-brewed ale? —
8638.
_ Take Boz. hops, 141 b. treacle, 2oz. whole
ginger, 11 gallons water, 2 cups brewers’
yeast. Mix all together, except the yeast
and boil for two hours; transfer to a tub,
and let cool. Add the yeast, stir well, and
let stand for 16 hours. Then remove all to
a barrel, and let stand for two' days with
the bung out, the barrel being slightly canted.
Bung closely at the end of the two days, and
use in a week.
(1) Provided a wicket-keeper has the ball,
is he entitled to break the wiclcet with any
part of his person when attempting to stump
or run out a batsman? (2) If, while waiting
for a ball to be thrown in, lie accidentally
breaks the wicket may he gain the decision
by further breaking the wicket, the batsman
bei iff still out of liis crease? —8943.
(i) No. If the wicket is intact it must be
broken with the ball in hand. See rules
23 and 28. (2) Yes; provided he has the ball
in hand. He may further break the wicket
either with the hand holding the ball or
by pulling out a stump with his other hand
while holding the ball.
(1) Where could I get information about
openings for cinema operators in N. S.
Wales? (2) Award rates? —8753.
(1) Try the Secretary, Theatrical Em-
ployees’ Association, Market-street, Sydney.
(2) Night shows, £6 3s. per week; continu-
ance shows, £6 16s. p.w.
(1) Wages of ticket-writers in Sydney?
(2) Where can the trade be learned? (3)
Is the field crowded? —8488.
(1) There are no award rates; a good
showcard writer should be able to get £6 to
£7 p.w. (2) It is advisable to get a job
in a leading showcard studio and to supple-
ment the practical training with study
at the Sydney Technical College. (3) It is
overcrowded with amateurs doing spare-time
work, but a writer with talent above the
average should find a niche.
(1) Is there a motor transport service
from. S.A. to Alice Springs? (2) Work and
conditions on stations about Alice Springs?
(3) What is the outlook for kangaroo-shoot-
ing about there? —5694.
(1) A motor transport service is in opera-
tion from Oodnadatta to Alice Springs. The
raihvay under construction from Oodnadatta
to Alice Springs has been completed to Rum-
balara, about half-way; it is expected that
the line to Alice Springs will be opened for
traffic in June. (2) Central Australia is
experiencing a drought, so it would be most
inadvisable to proceed to Alice Springs in
search of work. (3) Not encouraging.
(1) Quantity and, value of tobacco groten
in Australia annually f (2) What companies
purchase Australian leaf for manufacture?
(3) Districts where tobacco is grown?— Sl4o.
(1) In 1922-23, the best recent year,
32,729 cwt., valued at £276,745; average yield
for 10 seasons, to ’26, 15,233 cwt. (2) British-
Australasian Tobacco Cos. Pty., Ltd., Mel-
bourne and Sydney; Dudgeon and Arnell
Pty., Ltd., Melbourne; and P. Michelides,
Ltd., Perth. (3) Tamworth, Tumut and
Texas districts (N.S.W.) : Ovens and King
River valleys (Vic.) ; Mt. Barker district
(S.A.) ; Manjimup (W.A.).
(1) Recipe for making grape wine? (2)
What method of press could be used in
extracting the juice? (3). Recipe for bath
salts? —B749.
(1 and 2) Wine-making on a commercial
badis is too lengthy and technical to describe
here, and considerable plant is required. To
make a light wine in small quantity, take
Sib. grapes and thoroughly bruise and crush
them in a vessel. Let stand for a week,
strain into another vessel, and add 31b. sugar
or less according to taste. Cover with a
cloth and leave until fermentation begins,
about 24 hours. Transfer the liquor to a
cask, with the bung out. Evaporation will
reduce the quantity as fermentation proceeds,
and more water must be added daily for ten
days to maintain the original amount. Then
put in the bung, and leave for two months
in a cool, dry place, when it is ready for
drinking. (3) Bath salts are made of car-
bonate of soda (washing soda) crushed fairly
small and sieved for uniformity. The
crystals are colored with cochineal, laundry
blue or tea water; and are perfumed with
oil of violets, oil of neroli, lavender, musk or
verbena essence, about hr/.. to each 41b. of
soda. A little glycerine added to the crystals
give a transparent, professional finish to the
salts.
(1) In the case of cos. issuing bonds and
lodging title deeds of lands and moneys with
the. Public Trustee, is this an absolute guar-
antee that the Public Trustee will have full
control over the lands and what is thereon,
and tvould he legally be required to keep the
company up to original promises in the in-
terests of purchasers? (2) What is fee-
simple as applied to land? —8854.
(1) Of itself the lodgment may mean
little or nothing. Everything depends upon
the deed of trust. (2) Absolute property:
not limited as to transfer or inheritance.
At the time of the Castlemaine-Perkins
merger I held [and still hold) shares in
Perkins. (1) Was I entitled to participate
in the new issue of Castlemaine Perkins,
Ltd.? (2) If so, to what extent, and does
the offer still hold good? —B7B3.
Castlemaine Perkins, Ltd., purchased the
bulk of Perkins assets and its goodwill, giv-
ing in payment a certain number of shares.
These shares are now held by the Perkins
Cos., which also has a large number of free-
hold hotels, and is liquidating its outside
assets. The shareholders in Perkins had no
claim on Castlemaine Perkins, Ltd., for any
shares.
Tell me how to make 40 per cent, formal-
dehyde solution and in what strength to
use it for sterilising tomato seed-beds. —
8955.
It would be cheaper to purchase the 40 p.c.
formaldehyde solution, which is sold as
“formalin,” than to make it. For the pur-
pose required the strength is four pints
formalin to 50 gallons water, using about
one gallon per square foot. Sterilisation by
means of steam applied 40 to 60 minutes
would be better.
I want some information about a reptile
commonly called the slow-worm. It is about
a foot long and half an inch thick, with
silvery scales and a needle-like sting about
%in. long at one end. —8765.
The reptile referred to is one of the blind
snakes, genus Typhlops. They live in decayed
stumps, ant nests, etc., and feed on ant eggs
and tiny insects. They are quite harmless,
being practically toothless, and having very
small mouths. There are 19 species of blind
snakes in Australia.
A batsman blocked a ball, which rose off
his bat; fearing it would drop on the wicket
he hit it a second time and teas caught. The
umpire gave him out. Was the decision
correct? —8898.
No. A ball so stopped was struck for the
purpose of guarding the wicket, which, the
batsman was entitled to do (Rule 27), and
not for scoring or defence in actual play.
(1) How to get dust off a painted door on
the outside of the house? It will not dust
off. (2) How to clean gramophone records?
(3) How to get grease off leather chairs? —
8483.
(1) Wash with warm water, and clean
down with a soft brush. If the dust was
deposited when the paint was fresh, or moist
from heat, repainting may be necessary. (2)
wash in lukewarm suds, and scrub with
a very soft brush, such as an old shaving
brush. Rinse in clear water containing a
little vinegar, and polish with a silk cloth.
(3) Wipe over with a cloth dipped in petrol,
and polish with a mixture of equal parts of
raw linseed oil, vinegar, turpentine, and meth.
spirit. Apply lightly and finish a small patch
at a time.
(1) How is the strength of concrete mea-
sured? (2) What is the stronger, concrete
mixed with river gravel or concrete mixed
with broken stone? —8845.
Strengths are measured by their resist-
ance. The various forms of stress are (1)
resistance to crushing-compression, (2)
resistance to tearing-tension, (3) resistance
to bending-flexure. Strengths of concrete are
usually compared by their compressive
strength at a given time, usually 28 days,
under standard conditions of quantity of
water mixture, time of mixing and curing,
all of which have their effect on strength.
The strength of concrete in compression is
generally given in tons per square foot or
lb. per square inch, and is the figure at which
failure of the specimen occurs. The strength
of concrete is dependent solely on the ratio
of water to cement in the mixture, provided
the mixture is plastic and workable and the
sand and gravel or stone clean and struc-
turally sound. In other words, if the same
volume of water per bag of cement is used,
the strength in a given time with the same
conditions of mixing and curing will be the
same whether river gravel or broken stone is
used as the coarse aggregate.
How to remove red-ink stuins from a
carpetf —8654.
Sponge with a weak solution of oxalic
acid and water or hydrochloric acid and
water. If obstinate, increase the strength
of the solution. Clean off with warm water
containing a little ammonia.
Information Supplied.
865 S prevent ants from looting seed-
beds, feed them liberally on a mixture of
borax and sugar. In a week or two they
will disappear.—“ Bill K.”
Brief Answers.
5.T.11.: (1) We couldn’t arrive at an
opinion on the disclosed tacts. (2) See which you
can get the better terms from. (3) Yes....
D.J.H.: Must know the nature of the salts in
the water; Department of Agriculture, Sydney,
may be able to help you. ... A.G.1.: You are
not liable to pay for extra days over 28....
G. : There is a special rubber ball for handball;
it can be got from Mick Simmons, Sydney ; Is. 3d.
. ...C.T.: A literal translation is “May I flourish
upon the latest praise”. .. . E.J.R.: Information not
obtainable in Sydney; write to H.M. Eastern African
Dependencies, Trade and Information Office, Royal
Mail Building, Cockspur-street, London, 5.W.1....
H. : “French Polishing,” by P. Hasluek (Is. 2d.
posted), “The French Polisher’s Handbook” (2s. 9d.),
and "French Polishing and Enamelling,” by R. Bit-
mead (3s. 9d.) ; all from Dymock’s, Sydney
P.H.S.: Know no special reason for selling. All the
same, nobody ever went broke through taking a
profit... .G. 8.: Very poor chances. You can depend
upon it that if you undertake to buy a £1 share
you will be bled for the pound... .J.A.M.: They are
steel engravings and generally realise about £1 Is.
each. .. .H.W.A.: Write direct to the Secretary,
Education Department, Melbourne... .K.D.: Get in
touch with the State Savings Bank, Elizabeth-street,
Melbourne; that institution is attending to war
service homes in Vic R.0.R.: Try the Australian
Casing Cos., 65 Macquarie-street, Sydney... .5.T.8.:
(1) No. (2) Yes. See rule 46. (3) The umpire
at the bowler’s end was correct in declining to
adjudicate, as he could not see the occurrence, and
in referring the matter to the square-leg umpire—
this is the umpire’s duty, not the player’s. The
second umpire had no right to question the other
umpire or the bowler. At the same time if he had
any reasonable doubt he was right to give the
batsman the benefit of it... .11.R.E.: 1851 cub. yds.
. ...A.8.: Try any of the large manufacturing
chemists in London—Parke Davis and Burroughs
Wellcome, for instance... .E.W.: Tost and Rohu, 26
Martin-place, Sydney... .C.S.E.: Try Queensland
Forestry Department, showrooms, William-street,
Brisbane... .C. 8.: Suggest you write direct to
Scientific American, 24 West 40th-street, New York.
....H.M!.: Yes, Annie S. Swan (Mrs. Burnett
Smith) writes under the pseudonym of “David
Lyall”... .A.A.S.: The Cotter, above the dam, and
the Condor are permanently closed waters. .. .A.M.C.:
An excellent series is issued by the College of
Agriculture, Uni. of California, Berkeley, Cal.,
U.S.A. ; write for a full list. .. . J.T.F.; Copies of the
N.S.W. Intermediate Certificate exam, papers can
be obtained from the Govt. Printer, Phillip-street,
Sydney... .ILL.: Submit the facts to the Workers’
Compensation Commission, Bridge-street, Sydney....
W.M.: Vic. does not grant permits for keeping
rabbits for fur-farming purposes; particulars con-
cerning N.S.W. can be obtained from the secretary,
Fur-farming Commission, Dept, of Agriculture,
Sydney.. .C.D. : Anthony Horderns, Bs. half-gallon...
Sub (Yale): (1) There is no likelihood of a re-
currence of the disease. (2) Physical culture will
not do any good without other treatment.
(3) You had better let a first-class orthopaedic
surgeon see the child. If you cannot afford high
fees, go to Melbourne Hospital. .. .V. 8.8.: (1) Un-
likely that you will receive a cure other than by rest.
(2) If you consult an honorary physician at Sydney
or Prince Alfred, you cannot go far wrong. Why
not ask your doctor to recommend you to a specialist ?
. ...J.L.: Nose bleeding can arise from a variety of
causes, such as high blood-pressure and nasal polypus.
In a child it is generally of little account. If you
are an adult, consult your family doctor. .. .T.J.H.:
Get in touch with Bradley Bros., Wentworth-avenue,
Sydney... .C. 8.: (1) Hugh McCrae’s books include
“Satyrs and Sunlight,” “Colombine” and “Idyllia” ;
all three should be obtainable from leading book-
sellers. (2) At the 1921 census, 84.51 per cent,
of the population was native born. (3) Australia
raised 416,809 troops, and 330,000 were sent over-
seas. Total casualties were 226,073, 681 p.c.;
killed, died and missing numbered 59,258. .. .L. 0.:
There is no such corps; marines are not employed
in the R.A.N J.R.M.: The brown rubber coat is
evidently perished as a result of age. Warming it
in the sun may temporarily soften it a trifle....
G.H.C.: Question too vague. Which Matthew ,do
you mean ?... ..T.L.: (1) The rent falls due on
March 30. If you are then unable to pay, the
law allows until June 30, with proscribed penalty
for late payment at the rate of 10 p.c. per annum
for the period of default. Application for further
extension from June 30 would be considered on its
merits. (2) The second query is a matter between
yourself and the mortgagee... .W.R.W.: It is an
English halfpenny; no value. .. .J.R.: Worth, if
in good condition, about 10s. each. Possible buyers
are Tost and Rohu, 28 Martin-place, Sydney....
G. J. 8.: Yes; there is the Public Trust Office, 67
Castlereagh-street, Sydney... .M.H.: See “The
Canoe,” by R. E. Pinkerton (6s. 4d.) ; “Practical
Boat-Building for Amateurs,” by A. Neison (3s.
lid.); both obtainable from Dymock’s, Sydney....
J.R.C.: References to the subject will be found in
“Insurance,” by T. E. Young (page 312) ; “Law
of Contract,” by W. R. Anson (page 283) ; “The
Businessman’s Compendium,” by Hemingway (page
201) ... .G.8.A.: Particulars too vague. If you can
give the title or the author’s name it will help.
... .L.D.: If your only income during the 12 months
was £3 10s. per week, it will not be necessary
for you to pay Queensland State or Federal income-
tax, nor need you send returns... .K.W.H.: (1)
Aircraft, 486 Bourke-street, Melbourne. (2) Angus
and Robertson, Sydney... .J.M.K.: It is generally a
sign of restlessness, and the person concerned needs
to be thoroughly examined. .. .A.P.C.: The holder
of an intermediate accountancy degree should have
no difficulty in getting employment in city or country,
especially if he has had practical experience. For
award rates write to the Federated Clerks’ Union,
Trades Hall, Sydney; a good man, however, should
earn well above award rates.... R.C.11.: Your ques-
tion re poker (B. 20/2/’29) should have read: “Can
the table demand to see the faces of all the opener’s
cards?” The omission of the word “all” makes
the negative answer given incorrect; but only the
opening cards need be shown... (Many others mailed.)


r Xta 1
This Garment is guaranteed per-lect manufacture.
Examine thoroughly before washing and if
defective return to store from which it wa»
purchased with docket, within 7 days.
(In Liq.)
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
] uWtJv
llhriM&nj
üßoncts
Gh arm
SILK RAYON UNDERWEAR,
tflas Reached Perfection
fs
"Charm" Ve* t i
with opera top*
and fabric shoul-
From 5/11
The Gorgeous Colorings, the Perfect
Fit and Thorough Workmanship,
place, “Charm’’ far and away ahead
of all other underwear.
Now with the Guarantee you are
given Extra Security at the Same Price
df
“Charm” Bloom*
ers, perfectly tail-
ored.
From 6/11
sd
‘‘Charm" Princes*
Slips, in delight-
ful tones. ,_ . -
From 12/6
Faultless fabric—per*
feet knitting makes
“Charm” the best Rayon
Silk Underwear pro*
duced in Australia.
I I
•'Charm" Pyjamas
In two styles Sleeveless with low
neck, and short sleeves, in smart
two-lone effects.
From IV/11
It is the Extra Body
in this Super Rayon
Fabric that gives so
much added wear.
fs
"Charm" Nighties
smartly cut, no
sleeves, low neck.
From 17/11
Be sure and see Bond’s Fixed
Price Tab and Guarantee on
Every Garment.
MADE BY THE EMPLOYEES OR
GEORGE A. BOND & CO. LTD. (inliq.)
SYDNEY, N.S.W., AUSTRALIA.


WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed' on the
most-up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydney I
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET.
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
The Ingenious Chain-Feed
(X Great Idea ~ Ci Crump Idea
TOP-DRESSING MACHINE
J3ccklet from,
CRUMP MACHINERY C?
Jllso sows
srain, srass-
seed or clover
12 CARLISLE ST, STKILDA
ALSO TWO
16ft. SPEED TOP-DRESSER.
For attaching to motor-truck. Cover
200 acres per day.
NEW MACHINES.
IMPROVED FAN-TYPE MACHINE.
On own wheels or for dray. Throw
10 to 60 feet.
Catalogs and Useful Literature Post Free. Write To-night.
CRUMP MACHINERY CO., 12 Carlisle Street, St. Kilda, 5.2.
THE
Farmers 8 Settlers
Co-operative Insurance
Co. of Australia, Ltd.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL,
£250,000
Fire, Accident, Marine, Motor-car,
Workers’ Compensation, Growing
Crops, Stacks, Wool, Fencing.
SPECIALISING IN INSURANCE
FOR THE MAN ON THE LAND
ACTIVE AGENTS REQUIRED
WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
N.S.W. Office:
Wingelo House, Angel Place, Svdnev
F. D. POWELL, Manager. X
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
SUPER. ON FALLOWS.
“Agronom” : There is an idea prevalent in
Vic. that wheat yields better if half the
super, is applied to the fallow in late sum-
mer or early autumn and the remainder sown
with the seed in winter. The system has
been tested in N.S.W. and it has been
found that the best yields are obtained when
all the super, is applied with the seed. When
half the super, is put on in summer and
the remainder with the seed, the yield is
greater than when all the super, is applied
to the fallow in summer and none with the
seed. This, of course, is to be expected,
as super, slowly reverts in the soil and be-
comes somewhat less soluble than when first
applied, and it depends largely for its bene-
ficial effect on its quick stimulating action
on the young plant.
The practice of dividing the fertiliser appli-
cations, however, is not entirely without
merit. The super, when applied to the
fallow in early autumn has a remarkable
effect on the black oats lying dormant in tjie
soil. It causes them to germinate earlier
and stimulates the young growth, so that the
plants quickly show above ground and can
be cultivated out and destroyed before wheat
is sown. This is a tremendous advantage
on dirty country.
The scheme, therefore, is well worth try-
ing where oat destruction is of prime im-
portance. It involves no additional expense,
as the super, is applied by the combine while
the fallow is receiving one of its cultivations.
THE .CASE AGAINST LINSEED.
“Agronom”; In spite of what has been
said in praise of linseed, the crop cannot
be profitably grown in N. S. Wales and
Vic. except in the cold moist districts.
“Wrecksby” (B. 30/l/’29) says “land that
will grow wheat or oats will grow linseed.”
It will, but unfortunately it won’t grow it
profitably. Linseed is not a hardy plant like
wheat and it cannot stand even the shortest
of the dry spells we experience in Australia.
At Cowra (N.S.W.), an excellent wheat
district with over 20 inches a year rainfall,
the heaviest yielding variety of linseed,
Werribee, gave a harvest of 1671 b. per acre in
1928, although 850 points of rain fell on the
crop and it bad been sown on well-prepared
fallow. At 10s. a bushel it returned £1 10s.
an acre, while wheat alongside it yielded
30 bushels, value, at 4s. a bushel. £6. The
average yield since 1926 in this district has
been 1381 b. per acre.
COWPEA AS A COVER CROP.
“R.X.8.”: The value of cover crops to
replace fallowing is not sufficiently appre-
ciated in Australia. Cover crops check
evaporation, prevent the soil baking, and
minimise the loss of plant foods by heavy
rain washing, or leaching, the top soil. They
may be fed off, or turned in as green manure,
the most valuable crop for the latter purpose
being rape. Legumes are useful, as they
store nitrogen in the soil. Clovers, vetches,
soya and other beans and peas are all
valuable for this purpose, but the most
valuable is the cowpea.
There is no better plant than cowpea for
providing feed for sheep, cattle or pigs dur-
ing the summer months, when other palatable
feeds possessing a high protein content are
usually not available. Asa drought resistant
fodder, the crop is unrivalled. It has been
used successfully in India and other dry
countries for centuries. It enriches the soil
with nitrogen, potash, phosphoric acid and
humus.
Many varieties of cowpea have been in-
troduced to Australia, where the changed
conditions have produced more varieties still,
but it has been found that all of them will
readily alter their habits to meet new con-
ditions. Variation ranges between two dis-
tinct classes, one being upright and bushy
without trailers, and referred to as the bush
variety. “Poona” has been tried most suc-
cessfully. The other class produces long
trailers which spread well over the ground,
and this is the most suitable sort for cover
crops. “Whip-poor-will,” “Clay,” “Black,”
“White” and “New Era” are recommended.
Cowpea is naturally a hot climate plant
that revels in heat and sunlight.in a great
variety of soils, and it is very susceptible
to frost. In districts where frosts occur it
should be sown between October and Febru-
ary. If the soil is very poor, superphosphate
at the rate of lewt. to the acre should be
applied when sowing. The soil should be
well cultivated and the seed sown Gin. apart
in drills 2ft. Gin. apart, at a depth of 2in.
A maize drill fitted with a plate having fin.
holes is most suitable, and about 101 b. of
seed will be required to the acre. If pre-
ferred, the seed may be broadcast and har-
rowed in. In either case the seed will ger-
minate rapidly, and on well-prepared soils
the crop will grow quickly and evenly.
The crop may be fed off when the pods
are still green and plump. If wanted for
silage and hay. it should be left until the
pods ripen. The hay is liable to heat if
stacked too early. It should be left ex-
posed to the sun for a few hours, and then
put into cocks for at least 48 hours. Returns
of hay are as high as 15 tons to the acre.
As an indication of the high nutritive
value of cowpea, a comparison of the analyses
of this and lucerne hay is given :
Lucerne Hay. Cowpea Hay.
Per cent. Per cent.
Moisture . . . . 6.95 10.29
Protein .. .. 16.48 19.72
Fat 2.02 4.04
Carbohydrates .. 42.62 45.15
Ash 7.49 9.10
Residue . . . . 24.44 11.7
THE OVERHEAD ENSILAGE STACK.
“Paul C.” : The overhead ensilage stack is
easily made, and, with the exception of a
little waste on the sides, provides as good
cattle feed as the more costly silo or pit.
If the crop be lucerne, wheat or oats,
Thousands of men fail on the land because they don t know how to
succeed; many thousands more succeed less than they should because
they lack proper guidance.
“The Bulletin” wants to encourage farmers and scientists who know
to help those who don’t know.
With that object it offers two prizes of £20 and £10 for the most
useful contributions to the “Land” pages during the six months
ending June 30 next.
All contributions submitted, whether published or not, will be con-
sidered in awarding points, and the prizes will go to the winners
of most points.
Points will be awarded for interest and practical usefulness.
The prizes are additional to the usual payment for published
contributions.
the stack may be built just as if stacking
for liay, except that there is less necessity
to keep the heart of the stack high. When
maize or sorghum are the crops the best
plan is to cut a number of saplings about
3in. thick at the small end and 18 or 20
feet long. Sink these in the ground 2Jft-
and 3ft apart, and brace their tops across
the stack with light poles fastened to the
uprights with twitched wire. The centre
poles should be sufficiently high to allow the
stacker room to work under the brace.
As to the size of the stack: we’ll say you
have 40 tons of crop to ensile. In that
case, your framework should be I.sft. by
13ft. (the nearer you get to a square the
fewer poles you need) and your stack 20ft.
high.
In stacking the crop it should all be laid
lengthwise. It is advisable to throw straw,
grass or weeds on the ground at the bottom
of the stack, and to cover the whole with
a good layer of similar stuff before putting
weights on. These may be long saplings
or iogs, or even bags of earth, so long as
the pressure is evenly distributed over the
surface. After these weights have been put
on, the stack may be topped with straw or
grass, and it will be found that there will
be very little waste.
SAYING A BIG FLOCK.
“W.P.D.”: “Squaremile” (B. 9/l/’29)
casts doubts upon the achievement of Corona
station (Q.) in keeping a large flock of sheep
alive in drought time for four months at a
cost of sd. per head per week, and says
graziers would like to hear further details.
Here they are.
Mixed fodder was supplied to the sheep
(52,000 ewes in the midst of lambing) in
troughs at every watering-place on the run.
This was prepared according to the follow-
ing formula: Ground maize, 4201 b.; bran,
3141 b.; lucerne chaff, 1801 b.; linseed meal.
2001 b.; ground Nauru rock-phosphate, 3651 b.;
coarse common salt, 301 b. These were mixed
together as one would mix cement, on a
raised platform with a chute in the corner
for filling the fodder when mixed, into bags
weighing approximately GOlb. each. Lnougii
fodder was placed in the. troughs at , oach
watering-place to ensure it being availab.e
whenever sheep came to the trough. It was
found that the consumption of todder per
head per day amounted to about i?lb. (not
21b. as “Squaremile” supposes), and that the
amount of fodder could be regulated to a
certain extent by reducing or increasing the
proportion of phosphate used. The cost per
head per week, including labor charges,
worked out at S.OGd. per week. In Sep-
tember. 26,000 lambs were marked with no
more than normal loss. About a month after
marking the lambs were weaned and kept
in mobs of about 1000 each in enclosures
of about five acres each, with a sufficiency
of water and shade. These were fed on
mixed fodder according to the following for-
mula • 5601 b. ground maize; 5201 b. bran;
ISOlb. lucerne chaff; 2001 b. linseed
meal- 601 b. phosphates; 301 b. coarse salt.
Five ’oz. of the above fodder and from 2oz.
to 3oz. of lucerne hay were supplied to the
lambs, which, with the exception of about
two per cent., flourished.
During the feeding period both ewes and
lambs did really well; the ewes were thriv-
ing ; the wool was in good condition, and the
milk supply was sufficient.
The ingredients of the feed were ground
as finely as possible, the maize, ground, not
crushed', and the lucerne chaff powdered. Had
this not been done the sheep would have
left the phosphates and picked out the rest.
Ground rock-phosphate (not superphosphate)
will not injure sheep however much they eat.
STOMACH WORMS IN SHEEP,
“Delta”: There are many symptoms of
worm infestation which would be noticed by
the experienced, but two simple tests may
easily be made by the novice who has reason
to suspect that his sheep are wormy. Drive
the sheep fairly fast, and up hill for pre-
ference, and if some of them,throw up their
heads and drop back, worms will probably
be the cause. Catch these sheep, and turn
back their eyelids. A healthy sheep will
show the small veins red and full of blood,
while the eye and eyelid of a wormy sheep
will be found pale and bloodless.
The drench adopted by the w r riter over a
period of many years has given excellent
results, and is as nearly fool-proof as possible.
Take a sgal. oil-drum, half fill it with water,
and add 51b. bulk Epsom salts. Bring to
a boil, and then add 2oz. white arsenic,
and stir till dissolved, taking care not to
inhale the fumes. The arsenic will at first
float on top of the water and will probably
boil up the sides of the drum as it com-
mences to dissolve. See that it does not boil
over, and that no residue of undissolved
arsenic remains on the side of the drum
above the level of the water. When cold,
strain through a cloth, and bury the sedi-
ment, if any. Then add cold water to make
the drench up to sgal., stir thoroughly, and
it will be ready for use.
The dose for an adult sheep is 2 fluid oz.,
for a hogget 3Aoz., and for a lamb loz.
Have funnel-shaped measures made by a
tinsmith, and before using have them tested
for correct measurement by a chemist.
Yard your sheep overnight, and commence
drenching next morning in time to finish by
noon. Keep them another four hours in
the yard, and then return them to their
paddock, being careful not to hurry them,
and do not let them get at water, as they
will be better without it for a while.
While you have the sheep in the yard at
night it will be worth while to visit them
about bedtime, and if they cough to any
extent they probably have lung-worm as
well, the curing of which is another story.
WINTER WIND-BREAKS.
“Bad Australian”: Many farmers appear
to believe that when they have provided a
few shade-trees to shelter their stock during
the summer months they have done all that
is necessary. To my mind the provision of
wind-breaks to afford shelter in winter is
of as much, if not more, importance to the
stock-owner, but in the majority of cases
this receives little attention, and where pro-
tection of the kind exists it generally affords
shelter from two sides only. A more effec-
tive form of protection is provided by plant-
ing a thick-set hedge, preferably in two
rows, about three feet apart, around a
square or oblong plot of convenient size,
leaving a couple of gaps for the animals
to pass in and out. When the hedge is
well grown the stock will be able to make
themselves fairly comfortable, no matter
what quarter the wind blows from.
SHEEP AND SULPHUR.
“Hatter” : Wool, horn and hair are peculiar
among the products of living organisms in
that they contain relatively high percentages
of sulphur. Sulphur occurs in the wool fibre
in the form of cystine, one of the 19 com-
pounds essential for growth that build up
the proteins of animal life, and it has been
found that in all wool, whatever the breed
or locality chosen, the proportion of cystine
in the 1 dry fibre is constant at 13.1 per cent.
It is, however, useless to feed sulphur to
sheep with the object of providing cystine,
as this basic compound cannot be synthetised
by animals but must be obtained preformed
in the herbage. The proteins which form
•flesh are not very dissimilar in their cystine
content from the proteins in pasture plants,
but the content of cystine in hair and wool
is no less than eight or twelve times as
great; therefore from eight to twelve times
as much pasture protein is required to
produce wool as is required to produce flesh.
Tile English breeds of sheep commonly
produce a larger carcase than the merino
and no greater yield of wool, hence the
demand made on the animal is less, and it
is possible that a deficiency of cystine may
account for the success of English breeds
in localities where the merino will not
thrive. It follows that the carrying capacity
of any country for sheep depends not only oil
the nutritive value of the pasture per
acre but on the cystine production
per pound of fodder protein. Since
protein is never very abundant in vegetable
foods find vegetable proteins contain but
little cystine, the consumption of food neces-
sary to produce wool must be very large.
It is estimated that to produce lib. of wool
protein (about 2|lb. of greasy wool) no
less than 81b. of vegetable protein must be
eaten by the sheep, and the total annual
exportation of cystine (in wool) from Aus-
tralia is put at 33 million pounds, or nearly
10 million pounds of sulphur.
Scientists are now investigating the cystine
contents of various fodder plants, and their
conclusions in this line of research should
prove of immense value to pastoralists.
Meantime it is noteworthy that the applica-
tion of sulphur to soils deficient in it leads
not only to an increased sulphur assimila-
tion by the plants but also to a greater
assimilation of nitrogen.
BURRS AS FODDER.
“Gaco”: It is somewhat misleading for
“Bindei” (B. 16/l/’29) to say that burrs
are a valuable fodder stand-by in a dry
spell. He refers to Bathurst burrs, of
course. Sheep eat them in a dry time if
there are any growing, which will only be
the case if there has been enough rain to
bring on the burr. And if there has there
will also have been enough rain to bring a
good shoot in the grass, so the sheep will
not turn on to the burrs until all the grass
has gone. By that time, if the burrs have
not dried off altogether, the seed-pod will
be too hard for the sheep to eat and they will
take only the stalks, leaving the seed to fall
to the ground, ready to grow up gaily next
year and make a pest of itself. Clover burr
.is a different thing altogether, as it is good
feed all the time, from the moment it gets out
of the ground until the seed lies dry on
the ground. In a dry time sheep live for
months on clover burr when there is not a
bite of anything in the paddock. But it is
only good sweet country that grows clover.
Clover burr does much more harm to the
wool than Bathurst burr does; yet while
sheep men go over their paddocks cutting
out Bathurst burrs they would not dream
of trying to eradicate clover burr.
THE DECAY OF DROVERS.
“Bosso” : The opinion of “FY7” (B.
26/12/’2S) that droving conditions have
altered very little during the last half-century
may be correct as regards cattle droving in
Queensland, but it isn’t the case in N. S.
Wales. The modern drover is by no means
as satisfactory as the old-time Clancy and
his cobbers. Owing to railway freights being
doubled since the war, drovdrs are much in
demand when there is grass on the stock
routes, but they don’t care to take the risk
of a contract as Clancy did. The modern
“monkey conductor” prefers to crawl along
fenced lanes in a sulky—leaving the work to
his dogs when he is asleep. He gets from
30s. to 40s. per day for his “toil,” and, unlike
(C on tinned on page 31.)


Chrysler
T
X. 1
s**
rt
r-
r ; r r n
r ill
PJI --
ii
3*3
TSc^
r
r
£
ft
New Chrysler ”75” Roadster ('with rumble seat )
er’s only real competition
is Chrysler
The first Chrysler
established a margin
of superiority over all
other cars in style, per-
formance and value that
has been maintained ever
since. . . CJ The true com-
petition Chrysler has to face
therefore is with Chrysler—
to make sure that each suc-
ceeding Chrysler is superior in
every worth-while way to the
Chryslers that have gone before.
. . . tj To-day the public demand
for the newest Chryslers tells
in no uncertain terms how well
Chrysler has succeeded. Chrysler’s
largest production now is just begin-
ning to satisfy that demand. . .
CJThe public is delighted with the
elements of the new style that re-styles
all motor-cars new slender-profile radiator,
arched windows
and the graceful
sweep of the new
“air-wing” fenders —
avoidance everywhere
of the bulky and cum-
bersome. . . If And for
smooth performance, riding
luxury and safety—“Silver-
dome” high-compression
engine, using any gasoline;
counterweighted 7-bearing
crankshaft; internal expanding
hydraulic 4-wheel brakes, efficient
in any weather; rubber shock
insulators in place of metal shackles
and hydraulic shock absorbers. . ..
fj There are other cars which seek to
compare themselves with Chrysler in
style, performance and value which really
do not compare with Chrysler at all.
Chrysler’s only real competitor is—Chrysler.
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.: Larke Neave & Carter, Ltd., William Street, Sydney.
Vic.: Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
South Aus.: 0. T. Bodda Motors, Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West Aus.: William Altwood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
Tas.: Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart.
N.Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington.
New Guinea: W. R. Carpenter & Co., Ltd., Rabaul.


Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
IN CO-OPERATION WITH
WAGONS-UTS CO.
The only Firm with permanent
offices all over the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
k
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiassed
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on file for
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own accommodation.
By booking through Cooks, whether
travelling first, second or third class,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other travel
organisation.
. ESCORTED TOURS TO EUROPE.
ALL CLASSES—Leaving February, March,
April. We are the pioneers of Escorted
Travel, and having our own offices through-
out Europe, are the only Tourist Firm
properly equipped to handle such business.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street,
ADELAIDE:
49 Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
• Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).
Dunks’
Btent Surgical flppitmlus
nub Saniturgtcare
are used in the leading hospitals and nursing
homes for mechanical quickness and antiseptic
value. Our stocks include:
df
Dressing Table.
Antiseptic Lavatory Basins
Tip-up Basins and Sinks
Immersion Stands
“Ideal” Hot Water Systems,
Etc.
Anaesthetic Tables
Wash Stands
Dressing & Instrument Tables
Operating Tables
Examination Chairs
Ear, Nose and Throat Tables
Bed Screens, etc.
r
m
V
Tip-up Basin.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
JOHN BANKS S SON PTY., LTD
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
NERVES A-JANGLE
Out of bed with head all dizzy, limbs aching, bad taste in the mouth, a
sense of weariness and depression is that the way to start the day?
The majority of men (and women, too) who com-
plain of constant dreadful dizziness, pains in back,
joints and muscles, headache, irritableness, loss of
vigour, fail to realise that the seat of their trouble lies
in the kidneys. The kidneys are the most vital of all
bodily organs. On them depends the puritjr of the
blood, and consequently the strength or weakness of
nerves and muscles.
When the kidneys fail, poisons accumulate in the
blood which cause pain in muscles and joints. Nerves
become frayed and irritated. No wonder you are
often weak and dizzy. No wonder you feel old and
tired and worn out with the least exertion. What
is the good of doping the system with heart-exciting
“tonics”?
Why weaken the body with purging salts when the
only possible means of re-establishing health and
vigour is to restore the kidneys to healthy action? Do
you know, thousands of people have found that by
taking a short course of treatment with De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills, they have enjoyed a new
lease of life?
Men and women once crippled with pain, bedridden,
have once again enjoyed splendid vigour and vitality,
thanks to this famous remedy, which sells by millions
of bottles the world over. not ask your Chemist
about De Witt’s Kidney and Badder Pills.
THIS REMEDY BEARS A
GUARANTEE
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are not a
new untested, untried, “craze-of-the-moment”
preparation, but for over 40 years have been
bringing health, yes, and happiness to thou-
sands of men and women in this country. In
practically every town and village there is
someone relieved of terrible Kidney Trouble,
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, Bladder
Weakness who could tell you just how good
this remedy is. In 24 hours from the very first
dose you will know the pills are doing you
good. Persevere and your painful health
trouble will be ended. Is not the small cost of
“De Witt’s” well worth a return of vigorous
health? Ordinary size costs but 3/6; the
larger and more economical size, 6/6, should
prove sufficient for a most obstinate case.
De WITT’S
Kidney and
Bladder
We believe there is no substitute “just as good”
for De Witt’s Pills. Cheaper pills there may be.
Bear in mind “De Witt’s” carry a definite
guarantee to show results in 24 hours.
PILLS
'«r
c'
If
<r
JA
A Woman Wrote This to
Help Other Sufferers.
Mrs. E. L. Hammond, Kemp-
ling Street, West Devonport,
Tasmania, says :—“For three years
I suffered very badly from Kidney
Trouble. I was in constant pain
and tried all sorts of remedies,
which did me no good at all. My
sister, who had benefited by De
Witt's Pills, persuaded me to give
them a trial. I am indeed very
grateful for the health ‘De Witt’s’
have brought me after taking only
two bottles. I have told a great
number how good this remedy is.
I am now in perfect health.”
“De Witt’s” cost so little yet
work suck wonders.
fjp
<J>
c°
*£
ll?
'm
fH'
sS
&
»H<?
efitts
iMi
m%
s
%


sd
Soft and Restful
Relieves Footaches
An Abbey Shoe so light and
pliant that it guarantees the ease
of the tenderest foot. It has
no toecap, and there s no stiff-
ness in the upper, except where
blocked at heel and toe. It is
made of tan or black calf
the most comfortable leather to
wear.
This shoe has a flexible sole of the
toughest obtainable leather. The
lacing arches to fit the instep with-
out tightness. The sides are low-cut.
ALL SIZES IN THREE WIDTHS.
ORDER BY POST.—Exact fit
guaranteed. Each full and half-size
is available in narrow, medium or
wide fitting. Ask also for Abbey
Polish, 6d. per tin.
Tan Willow Calf . . 39/6
Black Box Calf . . 37/6
Enlarged catalogue of men’s and
women’s footwear posted on
request.
ABBEY
Established over 81 years.
313 George Street, and 224 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
FPL 113.
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
No disease has caused more loss in sheep than Fluke,
yet for les9 than one-fifth of a penny per sheep this
can now be cured by the application of Carbon
Tetrachloride. This process has been tested by the
Agricultural Departments of various States in Aus-
tralia, and has received their endorsement. it
requires preparation and additions before it can be
applied to the sheep, and these are skilfully carried
out in
SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
1 pint tins .. . 4/6 5/- each
1 quart tins . . 6/6 7/- each
POST FREE ON FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins . . 13/6 16/- each
DELIVERED NEAREST RAILWAY STATION
ON FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY., LTD.,
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney;
Protect
your skin from
infection
after shaving
Use
Cuticura
Talcum Powder
Delightfully soothing and cooling to
the tender, newly shaven skin and a
most efficient, sanative and antiseptic
protection against infection. Used in
combination with the Cuticura Shaving
Stick, Cuticura Talcum is an unusually
acceptable and fragrant addition to the
masculine toilet.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum l 3; 3d. Sold
everywhere. Sample each free. Address .
& Co., Sydney, N. S. W. , ,
!sagr- Cuticura Shaving Stick I*. bd.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE . .
3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
THE WORLD’S LARGEST COMMERCIAL FORESTRY CO.
SUBSCRIBED SHARE CAPITAL £235,586
SUBSCRIBED BOND CAPITAL £2,750,000
BANKERS —THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND AND THEIR AGENTS.
SOLE BROKERS—SMITH, WYLIE AND CO., LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN BRANCHES AT MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE,
PERTH, HOBART AND NEWCASTLE.
XT „,,, -7T?ATi-Nrn RPANCHFS AUCKLAND WELLINGTON, CHRISTCHURCH AND DUNEDIN
ald It 36 38 NEW BRoId STREET LONDON E.C.2; JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA;
BOMBAY,INDIA f siNGAPORE; KUALA LUMPUR, FEDERATED MALAY STATES.
H.
V ••
,719
The Martin Ditcher
Ditches, Terraces, Cleans and
Sweetens land at the smallest
cost. It does the work of 100
men and lasts a lifetime.
PRICE:
£35
B.K.
L»i O f! * ;| !il**“‘HH m
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Exton House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
T. & G. B’l’g, Light Square, Adelaide.
PAY AS YOU GO BY CHEQUE
• / ?
WJf-
1. It eliminates unwise spending.
2. It saves time and many steps in settling bills.
3. It gives prestige to your transactions.
4. It instils respect through your association with a reputable bank.
At this Bank you ate allowed Interest on. your
minimum Quarterly balance.
SLprimari} Pro'll lirers J&ank. of jlusfralia %
HEAD OFFICE. 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at London
r-lnnev he is always too tired to turn back
to look for stragglers. If he is short on
delivery the owner has to take Ins word that
•they died on the road Clancy always
produced the skins or the scalps of the
missing sheep as a guarantee of good faith,
and moreover Clancy’s men rode behind em
singing" for 255. to 30s. a week and keep.
THE BUFFALO-FLY AGAIN.
“Daly Waters”: For some time past the
Queensland Government lias been asking the
Federal authorities to take some action m
respect to the dreaded buffalo-fly of the
Northern Territory, which is gradually
approaching the borders of N.-W. Queens-
land. Nothing has been done beyond the
dispatch of a veterinary official to report, and
his findings have been pigeon-holed for many
months. Now comes news that a number of
Northern Territory cattle on their way into
Queensland to replenish the drought-denuded
cattle-runs of the Nortli-West have been held
ud in quarantine near Camooweal, which is
just inside the Queensland border, because
thev are infested with bufialo-fly. lffis
winged bloodsucking parasite introduced
with the buffalo from Malaya, has proved a
most serious pest to the Westralian and
NT herds, and its introduction to Queens-
land will just about be the. finish of the
unfortunate cattle industry in that »tate.
The fly breeds in horse- and cattle-dung, and
attacks the cattle about the eyes, the base of
the horns, and the face and neck. Ihe
victims soon collapse from loss of blood and
irritation. The insect is a strong flier, and
a vicious one, attacking human beings when
there are no cattle about. I here lias been
some talk in the past of resort' to parasites
as an offset to the fly’s activities.
GROWING POTATOES UNDER STRAW.
“Wrecksby” i Suitable land is prepaied
in the usual way, and is then marked
out in wide but shallow furrows. Ihe
depth of the furrow is governed by the
farmer's choice of sowing whole seed or
cuttings, but an average depth of has
been found satisfactory for both. When
the seed is placed in position the furrows are
filled with straw instead of soil, and another
covering of about two inches is spiciul ovvi
the whole field two or three weeks later.
The straw acts as a mulch of finer quality
than soil, and as the lianlms grow they
anchor the straw. . .
Hilling and intercultivation are unneces-
sary, and when they’re ready you just pul
the straw aside and pick up tubeis.
Yankee farmers pull the straw aside occa-
sionally to see how the crop is getting on,
adding a little fertiliser if it is thought desir-
able, and cutting off undersized and badly-
shaped tubers. . ,
Trial plots side by side, grown in the -usual
way and under straw, resulted in the former
method providing 9 tons 15cwt. of spuds
to the acre, of which only 8 tons were up to
marketing standard. Grown under straw
the yield was 12 tons lewt., the cwt. repre-
senting the quantity which did not meet the
marketing standard, which is very hign.
A SPRAY FOR TOMATO WILT.
“L.S.L.”: Some years ago the Cheshuat
Experimental Farm (Eng.) discovered an
effective preventive spray for tomato wilt
and allied blights. The spray, known as
Cheshunt Compound, is extremely simple to
mix and is safer to use than either the &uv-
gundy or Bordeaux. Take 2oz. sulphate
copper and lloz. ammonium carbonate,
pound each separately (or they can be
purchased in powder form) and mix. bet
aside in an air-tight container 24 hours to
mature. A 21b. treacle tin holds this quantity
safely. To spray 100 seedling tomatoes,
dissolve loz. of the mixture in 2gal. water.
If seed boxes are sprayed when sown, and
the seedlings when set out and at intervals
of 12 or 14 days thereafter, no trace ot
wilt will appear. If this has been neglected,
burn affected plants, water the places where
they grew with the spray, and fresh seed-
lings may be safely planted. This spray
has proved its worth in several tomato-
growing districts in Maoriland this season.
NUTRITIONAL ROUP.
“Agra”: It is now well known that poultry
may become affected by a disease resembling
roup because of a deficiency of the vitamme
A in the diet. This disease is likely to
become prevalent in seasons such as the
present, when there is a shortage of green-
feed. Yellow maize (corn, as poultrymen
call it) is rich in vitamine A, and to prevent
the possible outbreak of this deficiency
disease, at least half the grain ration should
consist of yellow maize. South African
maize, which is kiln-dried, should not be
used for this purpose.
Sprouted grain of all kinds is rich in
this vitamine, and if the maize has been
allowed to sprout for a few days there will
be small danger of this disease ever occur-
ring in the flock.
Butter-milk and cod-liver oil also contain
vitamine A, but the most economical pre-
ventive is yellow maize, and, for preference,
sprouted yellow maize.
ARGENTINA AS AN APPLE MARKET.
“Exile”: Australian orchardists complain
that there is no market for their apples.
What about Argentina? The South Ameri-
can republic imports them in tremendous
quantities. A recent shipment from New
York brought 14,000,000 of the fruit, and
in this case the steamer was specially char-
tered by a Buenos Ayres importer, Van
Bokkelen, who was inundated with orders
and knew he had no chance <of getting
adequate supplies by the regular cargo ser-
vice. Argentina has already double the
population of Australia, and is adding to it
at the rate of half a million a year. In 20
years, unless something happens to stem
the tide, the republic will have a population
of close on 25,000,000 and the city of Buenos
A.yres will account for 4,000,000 of the total.
Uncle Sam is a good business man, and will
do his best to hang on to the trade of his
own bifurcated continent, but, as the above
example shows, he can’t always keep pace
with the demand. The market is worth in-
vestigation by Australian fruit-growers and
exporters.
GETTING THE HAIR, OFF PIGGY.
“Ino”: You must scald him, but on no
account boil him. Take two parts boiling
water and one part cold water in the case
of a sucker. The hair should come
away in about half a minute. If.it doesn t
come in two minutes add a little more
boiling water, but be careful not to overdo
it or you’ll set the hair firm. For a larger
pig you can make the mixture just a little
hotter. Stir it round, and put a few drops
of blood in. If the blood turns white-looking
in less than half a minute it is too hot ; if
it doesn’t turn white in half a minute it is
too cold. Adjust the temperature accord-
ingly, remembering that the main thing to
guard against is getting the water too hot.
IS AUSTRALIAN TOBACCO TAINTED?
“Maduro” : If some of our tobacco experts
are to be believed this country will never be
able to produce a quality of leaf able to
compete with that grown in other lands.
This, the experts assert, is due to the taint
of phellandrine, a substance which is one of
the essential principles of eucalyptus oil, in
Australian soil. C. J. Tregenna, the N.S.W.
tobacco expert, is convinced that the euca-
lyptus content of Australian tobacco-grow-
ing soils is so pronounced in the leaf when
it comes to be smoked that the flavor is a
serious handicap to marketing. A contrary
opinion is expressed by A. J. Smith, the V’ic-
torian expert. He says that careful tests
have shown that there is no phellandrine
taint in Australian tobacco leaf. However
that may be, it is alleged by the pro-phellan-
drine party that N.S.W, tobacco-blenders do
not use more than (j per cent, of Australian
leaf making up the balance from imported
stuff. If this is true, it is strangely at
variance with the practice of other days. A
generation ago there were a dozen popular
brands of tobacco on the market in Q land,
N.S.W. and Vic., all made locally of
Australian leaf. The phellandrine cry was
not heard then.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“W.E.11.”; Dust fine wood ashes (those
burned to a white powder are best) on the
fly-blown parts of sheep. The maggots fall
out, and the antiseptic qualities of the ashes
heal the wounds without hardening the sur-
face of the skin. In very bad cases several
applications of ashes may be required to
effect a cure, but I’ve never known it to fail.
“H.M.” : Spraying experiments at Batlow
(N.S.W.) have produced results of value to
orchardists. For apple-leaf jassid Black
Leaf 40 was sprayed and the treatment was
very effective. For black spot four sprayings
of lime sulphur were made —at green tip,
spur burst, pinking and calyx stages—and
leaves and fruit were remarkably clean.
“Burra”: To get rid of dead stumps bore
a lin. hole 2in. deep in the top of the
stump in the winter; fill with water, and
plug. In the spring remove ; the plug, pour
in a little kerosene and ignite. Nine times
out of ten the stump will smoulder away
until all is consumed.
“Biro” : The newcomer on the land needn’t
be alarmed if he finds his lucerne or clover
patch is covered by a rank growth of weeds
that have a long start of the fodder, parti-
cularly when, as now*, rain has fallen early
in February. The weeds won’t choke the
planted stuff, but will act as a protection to
it, giving it a chance to form the strong
crowns: and long roots necessary for con-
tinuous growth. The organic content _of
the weeds is returned to the soil by grazing
stock, and if the latter are taken out of the
paddock in time to allow the lucerne or
clover to seed, there’ll be, with any sort of
luck, a fine crop next season.
“Agra” : Rats are wary, and the best way
to catch them is to set a large number of
spring traps—2o or more —at intervals.
They should be carefully baited, scented and
concealed. First clean the traps with boiling-
water and soap. Then scent the hands with
four drops of oil of aniseed to a handful of
bran. Rub the hands over thoroughly with
this and repeat this once or twice if a number
of traps are being set. Bacon-rind or
toasted cheese is an effective bait, and should
be lightly scented by putting a drop of
aniseed oil on a pice of paper, and rubbing
this over the bait. When placing the traps,
cover them over with chaff or grass, and
spread it well around.
“Mullarula”; In fencing don’t use too
small a bit when boring for the wire. The
smaller the bit the greater the chance of
breaking it in tough wood and the harder
the work of running the wire through the
posts after the boring is finished. Use a
brace with a liberal sweep. The work can
be made easier by an addition to the brace
which any blacksmith can make—an iron
rod sticking out on the opposite side to the
bend with a leaden weight on the’ end as a
balancer. Large holes in the posts are less
likely to be blocked by insects’ nests, and
dry quickly after rain, reducing the liability
to rot and lengthening the life oi; the posts.
Bore straight, so that there are no angles
against which the wire will later have to
be pulled, and on sloping giound bore
parallel with the ground surface.
“A. 8.”: Mint and parsley are two of the
easiest herbs to grow, and yet they command
a high market price. Soil which is always
wet will grow mint to perfection. Drain it
well and put in the runners, and there is no
need for further cultivation.* A sprinkling of
super, every three months will produce long
growths. Parsley can be grown along the
eastern side of a fence. Set the plants a
foot apart in heavily-manured soil (they
are gross feeders), and they need no more
attention than mint. A couple of seed-
heads saved each year will plant quite a
good-sized patch.
“Jimmy Dux”: Years ago we had anew
neighbor who set out to show us something
about fodder conservation. He grew a fine
paddock of maize for ensilage. In the
paddock was a deep dry gulley, one of the
holes of which he filled with his crop. He dug
a big drain to take storm water and packed
the dirt on top of the silage. “There,” he
said, as he gave the finishing touches with
a spade, “two hundred tons of the best as
safe as jam in a bottle.” Next day we had
a cloud-burst, and the “jam” was spread on
the flat for miles.


3
Why be satisfied with less?
SHARE in the benefits that P. & C. Assurance brings ! When times
are hazardous the company keeps policies in force ; a definite
sum is set aside each year for loan purposes. P. &C. policies
are planned to meet the special needs of the man on the land—these
are the things that have resulted from the co-operative basis of the
P. &C. The further fact that the company is linked with the most
influential co-operative bodies in the Commonwealth is yet another
factor in the stability of the company. When such advantages can
be obtained at no extra cost, why be satisfied with less ?
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Man. Director: H. Fell
PRODUCERS & CITIZEN S
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA
114-120 CASTLE RE AQH ST. SYDNEY
N.
N./
Vi> wi " ' vu - -*w-S— J
h.'W . }
M Bs_ v •*
i \r®> y Lz^l.
_--
“Its Quality Never Changt
es
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
SMOKE-OH!
The Brisbane Communists have received
notice to quit the Trades Hall. They mean
to build a tirades hall of their own.
“Thu U.S.A. refuses to recognise Russia diplo-
matically, but will lend it money.’’— Cable,
“No, I can’t marry you; but I will be
an uncle to you !”
* *
TESTY TRIFLES.
We’d very much like to see our batsmen
making some Trumpcr-y scores.
We’ve lost a lot of tests, but we’ll have
to stick to the last.
The test selectors have kept their backs
to the Wall.
We’ll have to win the Fifth Test by Hooker
by crook.
The Pedestrian's Shakspeare: “He jests
at wounds who never felt a car.”
Proposed that traffic policemen should be
illuminated. Many motorists would rather
sec them incinerated.
* *
“Has she taken her broken engagement to
heart?”
“Gosh! no,” was the flapper’s retort,
“His letters have all been put safely apart,
And she’s taking the thing to court!”
Doric.
* *
“Vital statistics show,” according to a
London paper, “that the warmer the weather
the better chance women have of getting
married.” So that some girls we know will
have an excellent chance after death.
* *
The Lie of the Week:—
The shop social-committee secretary
entered, raffle-ticket book in hand.
“How much a time?” sighed the victims.
“Nothing,” he said, “we’re giving them
away.”
* *
Spinster’s objection:—
Oh, the vampire vamps for the fun of the
game.
For vanity, power or pelf,
And the motto she flaunts without ruth or
shame
Is “Every man for herself.”
What’s the use of trying to keep a garden
going in Sydney? The Water Board cuts off
the water whenever dry weather comes;
insect pests are the devil, and straying stock
get at whatever the local kids don’t pinch.
Apart from which, a single peach is all the
average man can look after, anyhow.
P. P.
¥ ¥
A love dream is often but the idol thought
of an idle fellow.
A Melbourne theatre is showing a movie
entitled “Waterfront.” One of the new
movies in which nothing moves presumably.
¥ ¥
DONE !
A woman screamed —too late. The car
and the pedestrian
met sicjieningly. A
crowd quickly gath-
ered. The victim
opened his eyes.
“A telephone!” he
gasped. “Take me
to the nearest tele-
phone.” They did
so. “Quick.” he
breathed painfully
into the receiver.
“Quick, the Daily
Blurue !” A»s the
number answered
he fell back with
despairing cr y.
“T o o late,” h o
howled. “Too
late!”
Yes, some dirty
cow had beaten
him for the daily
quid by getting in
first with the re-
port of his own
accident.
¥ ¥
“W ho would
wear a beard nowa-
days?” asks the Sydney Sun. No doubt the
man who looks a ziff he would.
¥ ¥
There’s always room for another
Punter on race tram.
Youngster in Australian cricket.
Rumor about downfall of Bruce.
Commonwealth Royal Commission.
Strike organiser in Wharfies’ Union.
Figure on Billy Hughes’s golf handicap.
Hit-and-run motorist in gaol.
Murder in Darlinghurst.
Payment for Bully contribution in pocket
of
Jack Point.
¥ ¥
At bedstead-making Snoozer tried
Itis boss’s time to rob,
But was at once disqualified —■
He’d lain down on his job!
¥ ¥
FAMOUS SCOTS.
Burns.
Bruce.
Mary Queen of Scots.
Harry Lauder.
The one who paid for the drinks.
COULDN’T MISS IT.
HORATIO: “My people won’t hear of our
engagement.”
Flossie: “Oh yes, they will—when I sue
you for breach of promise.”
That great medico, Dawson of Penn,
Who reports on the King now and then,
Puts forth so much writing,
Attention inviting.
T'mt they now call him Dawson of pen.
M. G.
HOW WE BEAT THE DE FAYORITA 8.
(In which the Horse Poet drags his Muse
from her retirement and harnesses her to
u car.)
The Tin Can 4 was as nice a little job
as ever left a shop:
She was out of the famous Dudder Works
—distributors, Jossle and Jeans.
With a wash and polish and lick of paint
you could make her look tip-top,
W bile her price—whether cash or terms —
was right for buyers of modest means.
They sneered in the Favorita rooms when
we talked of the Tin Can 4.
(The De was a three-five hundred job, and
supposed to be worth it all.)
So we closed right up, as bushmen do
when they’re feeling a trifle sore,
While the Fans bragged on (the citified
mugs!),.nor dreamt of their coming fall.
The books are laying the Can like mad;
they ve already knocked her to twelves
When the Fav hums up. The sound of
her. and the sight of her ducoed wings,
Seem to send the Ikes stark mad. The
odds that they soon volunteer themselves,
Twenties Tinno !” “Take tens the Fav !”
the Can crowd’s answer brings.
THEY’RE OFF! The roar of the old
Pin Can, as the engine scatters her rust,
Is music sweet to the Bushland sports
whose aeroplanes hover and dive.
But the Fav steals by, doing seventy-odd,
and gives the Can her dust—
As well she might, since the latter’s limit
is round about thirty-five.
THE CRITIC.
AUTHOR: “A terrible thing happened this
morning. Young Teddy got hold of the
manuscript of my Australian play and
tore it to pieces.”
FRIEND: “But fancy a kid of three being
able to read!”
A crash like the fall of a five-point-nine
and a searing burst of flame!
A howl of delight from the out-back ’planes
and a deep Hebraic moan !
“They’ve stonkered the Fav with a ten-
foot log!” cries a Bush child —Bill, by name.
And a little later the Gan coughs up and
rattles home on her own!
Envoy.
And still, when garage employees meet for
a smoke in a client’s car,
And toil-weary feet repose on the seats in
boots all train-oil and tar,
The tale goes round of the joke by which
the dudes from the city were done,
When the Tin Can lifted the Road Race Cup
’gainst odds of twenty to one.
J. B. D.
PROVING IT.
“The Spanish Prime Minister, who has been accused
of suppressing information about revolts against
his repressive measures, has offered £lOOO to any-
body who actually saw fighting.”— Cable.
“Come on, gentlemen!” exhorted the P.M.
“It’s a good bet —a thousand quid to nothing
that nobody saw fighting. You can work
it out in pesetas for yourselves.”
Nine shabby men, bearing evidence of
what looked like war-wounds, stood up.
“Senor,” they began eagerly in chorus,
“I have seen fighting on several”
“Police! Arrest those brawlers! They
are making a disturbance in a public gather-
ing, which, in the present peaceful state of
affairs in Spain, amounts to sedition. Heaven
knows what will happen to them,” said the
P.M. darkly, as the men were hurried away.
“But there is one comfort, however frightful
it may be, it is the will of God. Now,
sefiors! My offer still stands, remember. A
thousand pounds will be won by anybody
There was a deathly silence. A one-eyed
man with a wooden leg suddenly slid under
his seat, as if panic-striken.
“One thousand pounds offered, and nobody
claims it! I now call for three cheers for De
Rivera, who has brought peace to Spain.”
The General then cheered himself heartily,
and the crowd strolled home exchanging ideas
about the best methods of bomb-making.
H. M.
LOOKING AHEAD SOMEWHAT.
From Melbourne Herald, April 26, 1975: —
The Anzac Day Diamond Jubilee cele-
bration took place at the Caulfield Veterans’
Hospital last night. Gatherings of ex-
Diggers have been held at this institution
for some years now, most of the men being
inmates.
Before the festivities, the final annual
meeting of the Soldier Settlers’ Branch was
held. The treasurer and acting-secretary
read the annual report, first referring to the
sad death of the secretary, Bill Antzag, who
had held the position for over 40 years.
Mr. Antzag was going about his farm work
as usual last week when he received a
notification that-his grandson had won a
prize in an art union and paid off the
liability on his block. The news that his
Crown grant was at last free proved too
much for the old hero and he fell dead.
In nresenting the final report, the acting-
sec. explained that 11,500 soldiers were
settled on the land in the years 1917-23.
Of these, 11,123 had been starved off their
blocks or had cleared out in the first 20
years and 27 had - gone mad. One won a
Batterball’s prize, and fled to South America
by airship before the board could issue a
summons against him for arrears of rent;
two shot a board inspector who had con-
demned their cows for having all their top
teeth gone. They were hanged, and their
goods (including the cows) seized by the
Crown. In 1948 an Act was passed allowing
any soldier-settler who had not been con-
victed of criticising the Trades Hall, violat-
ing the 1935 Prohibition Act, or illegally
using a seaplane, to transfer his block to
MOST FA RSIGH TED.
“But has this proposed husband of yours looked to the future?”
“Of course he has, pa. Why, he even dates his cheques ahead!"
his son or son-in-law. Over 300 had taken
advantage of this privilege, and the
meeting last night comprised the remaining
settlers, 35 in all, whom the ' Govern-
ment was allowing to transfer their blocks
to their grandsons or great-grandsons. All
the soldier-settlers of the Great Whr having
been thus relieved of the terms of their
mortgages, the president declared the branch
closed. The members then stood with clasped
hands while they sang the anthem of the
Association: “Old Cockies never growl. They
simply slave to death.”
As the settler-veterans entered the main
hall a few minutes later, a disturbance
occurred at the door. It seemed that an in-
toxicated old-age pensioner had been refused
admittance because he gave his age as 67,
and was therefore only 10 years old when the
Great War finished. The intruder insisted
that he was a blue-metal bombardier at the
Battle of Montague. His claim puzzled
those present for some minutes, until a
retired police-inspector recognised him as a
picket in the famous wharf strike of 1928
who had knocked his Irelmet in with road
metal. When the two were separated 10
minutes later, the drunk was taken to the
watch-house and the inspector to the casualty
room.
The annual dinner was then declared open
by the Chief Secretary, who apologised for
the absence of the Premier. The
Premier, he explained, was away
inspecting sites for the proposed
removal of the saleyards from
Flemington, and was later receiv-
ing important deputations urging
the abolition of the cable-trams and
the construction of a bridge at
Spencer-street. The president ex-
plained that the custom of provid-
ing a table for the “Last man off
the Peninsula” was discontinued
this year, as the last of the origi-
nal 2600 claimants to this honor
had just died. A prominent figure
at the president’s table was Earl
Stanley of Bruce, the only peer
present. He is hale and hearty at
93, and, though now without teeth,
hair, political ambitions or a golf
handicap, is still the possessor of
a highly superior manner.
The evening concluded about midnight
the Caulfield Band playing “Auld Lang
Syne” and “Good-bye Booze” as the inmates
waved from the hospital windows to the
outside guests departing in their aero-taxis
for various parts of the State.
P. M.
R.L.S. UP TO DATE.
TJndcr the wide and starry iky
Spread my blankets and lei me He,
With a tot of whisky to wet my eye
When I wake, or a rum-and-shrub.
This be the verse you grave for me:
He punted and couldn’t pick the pea.
Home is the mug from the A.J.C.,
And the boozer home from the pub.
H.


BLACK & WHITE
K
If
m
■
WMM
Mm
'■ i
■
■
.
.
.
, i “/V > ,
■■Ml
.
,
MPiiflM^wg
SCOTCH WHISKY
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD., 1 to 5 GROSVENOR STREET, SYDNEY.


Stockmen!
/luc/k 'tywiJcUs
tfmcAcofJ^CaASi
on
Homebush Yards, or Enoggera Yards,
Sydney, Brisbane.
Auctions in both markets conducted by stock depart-
ment managers. Cattle, sheep, lambs, pigs and calves
all realise top values at the firm’s sales.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
STOCK SALESMEN, LTD.
Winchcombe House, and 99-101 Eagle Street,
Bridge Street, Sydney, Brisbane.
20
INTEREST-BEARING FAITH
The person who is faithful to his Savings Acount, year after year,
permitting compound interest to add its cumulative power, has a
far better chance of acquiring something substantial than the
person who habitually speculates on “Sure Things.”
The race is rarely to the swift.
One thing is certain—there is no magic about accumulation, there
are few short cuts, and most of those are dangerous.
It is best after all to find out the surest way, the cumulative way,
and then stick doggedly to it —with interest added at 4% p.a.
Every Post Office is a Savings Bank Agency.
Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Offices
Pitt & Bridge Street*,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic P.isk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
A ROGUE IN ÀMBER
By J. B. COOPER
Illustrations by Per o/
Prologue.
ANTONIO SACCACO was born in one
of the back streets of Naples, where
children swarm like rabbits in an
over-crowded warren. From his earliest
years he -was accustomed to fight for his
living in an arena filled with men and
women yelling, singing, laughing, fiddling,
sometimes drinking. He slept in one of
those tall, narrow, white houses that have
green shutters to their windows. From those
windows upstairs women gossiped across
the confined, dog-infested street. Upon rope
lines stretched from window to window
hung the households’ washing.
Only a short distance away is the Porta
Capuana, where is held a continual fair or
street market. It was there that Antonio,
a ragged, barefooted and musical Italian
urchin, cheeky and cunning, learnt in the
sharp school of experience how to trade
and to bargain. His wits
became alert as he watched
the methods of the thieving
traders of Naples, and saw
them gesticulating as they
proclaimed the rare quality
of their rubbishy goods.
Antonio grew fat, eating
more than his full share of
the haricot beans dished
each day by his mother.
She was married when
seventeen years of age, and
was, like most Neapolitan
women, prolific of children.
Seven there were, and
Antonio was the eldest.
Eating the beans they were
like seven black-haired pig-
lets as they grunted,
squabbled and fought for
more. Antonio’s weakness
was pizza, made of dough,
garlic, rancid bacon and
tomatoes, and he begged
and thieved to get it. A
true child of Naples, with
the spirit of fun born in
him, he was ready at any
time to hold his sides and
rock with laughter at the
antics of Punchinello. In
doubtful moments he feared
the powers of witchcraft,
being obsessed with super-
stitions ; and he regarded
religion, priests and masses
with awed reverence. Sell-
ers of fruit, of shellfish, of colored
drinks so dear to the sweet palate of the
Italian peasant knew Antonio to be a
clever little thief, who was hard to catch,
as he dodged them nimbly, threading his
retreat through herds of goats, ox waggons,
barrows and mule teams.
When he grew up to be a young man he
kept a fruit stall of his own at the Porta
Capuana. Little urchins, restless and noisy,
were not given any chances to steal his
oranges. He knew all the tricks of the
children of the lazzaroni.
A quarrel that took place one night in a
bettola outside Naples between Saccaco and
one of his compatriots who accused Saccaco
of picking his pocket, led to a fight. In
the fight Saccaco drew a knife and made a
serious wound on his drinking com-
panion. The affair caused Saccaco to dis-
appear from Naples. He took up his resi-
dence in Paris, in a garret of one of the
houses off the Rue de la Roquette, a fact
that was recorded in a dossier filed in the
offices of the Prefecture of Police. While
he lived in the Rue de la Roquette he
peddled religious statues as a visible means
of living. For some time he was very poor,
leading a hand-to-mouth existence. He ate
more beans than pizza. The manufacturers
of religious statues, who had their work-
shops in the Rue, would not give him credit,
or even trust him to sell their goods on
commission.
Suddenly his poor fortune changed. Those
who knew him marvelled- at the profit he
must be making from the sales of saints’
statues, yet the small stock of saints’
figures stored in his attic room did not
decrease perceptibly in numbers.
Saccaco had an associate of about his
own age, thirty years, named Francois
Neigre. Neigre had been a sailor in the
French Navy. At Toulon he was known
to be specially seamanlike in handling boats
in rough water. He had made many cruises
and got drunk in many colonial ports.
Often in trouble' for breaches of discipline,
he went one day too far. Excellent sailor
though he was, it was too much to suppose
that, a lieutenant would submit to having a
dirty mop thrown at him in anger. Neigre
was ignominiously discharged from the navy
with a black record, and, further, was
sentenced to two years’ imprisonment for
mutinous conduct. His subsequent career
in Paris and elsewhere forms a formidable
“To Jeannette, Saccaco -posed as a merry fellow. Merrily drank his wine, showed his
white teeth when he laughed, and with every drink blew a kiss to her.”
dossier , and it is, like Saccaco’s, filed in the
offices of the Pre fecture of Police,
Saccaco, when he first came to live in
the Rue de la Roquette, managed to deceive
most of those who in that crowded quarter
of the great city of Paris, troubled to
notice that he existed. In the alley, or
half-courtyard, paved with uneven cobble
stones, his hungry-eyed, poverty-stricken
neighbors had not any ill-natured word to
speak of him. Praise had been his, indeed,
f or did he no t give roasts of horseflesh
(d, e o jd W oman "who picked over every
of rubbish to which she could find
access when the concierges were not looking
—a n d that
omission di d
not happen
often? The
butcher’s shop
in the Rue, with
its sign of a horse’s head, and the dark red
joints of horseflesh, was a meeting placa'
for the ragpicker and Saccaco. What she
told him nobody but she and he knew;
that the Italian bought the old rag-collector
slices of horseflesh was, however, known
to many. Plainly for the world to see,
Saccaco was charitable; and all who had
eyes could see, too, that he was a good
Catholic.
While Saccaco lived in the vicinity of
the Rue de la Roquette he married one
of the women of the kerb market held each
day in the street. These women were mostly
old, fat, plain, ample of figure, with volu-
minous skirts. Saccaco’s choice, Jeannetta
Mortier, was bright and young. Standing
youthful, fresh and blooming, she broke the
age-line made by the barrow-women on
the kerbstone. Most of her hard-faced
companions were old enough to be her
mother.
For generations Jeannette’s ancestors had
lived in this quarter, in one or other of the
antique houses of a dirty yellow-ochre color,
stained with the dirt of centuries. Some of
the blood in her veins undoubtedly came
from the hearts of the wild women of the
Revolution, who had swarmed from such
places as the Rue de la Roquette, clamoring
for the blood of the white-fleshed aristo-
crats. Yet it was quite clear that she had
some dash of better blood in her breeding,
Her hands, feet and features had not the
peasant coarseness that is to be seen in the
majority of the market-women of Paris,
Who knows what bubble in her blood
leaped into sight after many years? Was
it a throw-back to some feudal lord taking
his rights? Or to some aristocrat in hiding
from capture and the guillotine, making love
to some fair ancestress of Jeannette’s, while
she protected him? Such reversions to
remote ancestors are not infrequent, and they
account for much, though they explain so
little. It was Jeannette’s good fortune to
give expression to this bubble in her blood,
and she gained in the attractiveness of her
personality to the extent of her inheritance.
To Jeannette, Saccaco posed as a merry
fellow. He played his fiddle when courting
her, merrily drank his wine, showed his
white teeth when he laughed, and with
every drink blew a kiss to her. He made
her a present of an image of St. Catherine
on her birthday, 25th November, the day
of the festival of her patron saint. To
Saccaco, Jeannette was a sweet girl, waiting
like a peach to be picked, with the bloom
of virginal purity upon winsome cheeks.
Jeannette did not tell him otherwise. If
ho chose to think this of her, was it not
flattering to her charm? Ah, she thought,
if the men only knew what tricks the women
play! Oh! La, la!
It was not for long that Jeannette was
in such merry mood. Slowly the thought
came to her that she had made a mistake
in marrying this Italian, who seemed so
gay and carefree that he could play “Funi-
culi, Funicula!” the night through on his
fiddle. She sensed, rather than knew, that
he was a rogue, or if he was not a rogue
himself, that his companion, the man with
the ugly cut on his face, was one. This
realisation was a grievous blow to Jeannette.
In their attic, her husband away, she wept
silently before St. Catherine, and prayed
to her to be kept from tribulations. Jean-
nette’s eyes were inflamed through constant
weeping. Her tears could
not wash away Saccaco.
To the market women
she showed a brave front;
but the old women, who
had the eyes of shrews, were
too sharp for a young wife
to deceive. They saw that
Jeannette was not happy,
that her eyes had wept and
wept, and no powder she
could dust on her face
could hide her secret from
them. It was humiliating
to the bride—she who had
held her head so high in
the market place to become
the subject of covert jests
and sneers! She could
weep her eyes blind, so
great was her pride’s chag-
rin! She was ready to go
anywhere, out of sight of
the market women and
beyond hearing of their
pitying voices.
When before noon each
day Saccaco descended from
the attic and went through
the courtyard of their dwell-
ing-place into the Rue de la
Roquette, he sniffed deep
and quickly, as a hound
sniffs, when he passed an
epicerie, for he loved the
smell of strong cheese with
the same ardor as that with
which he devoured a stew
of bouillabaisse, or gobbled
up a dish of spaghetti. He
mixed with the crowd of
dames and maid-servants busying about
market carts, and offered his wares; but
such people could not afford to buy saints
every day.
But he knew of more favorable stands
than those in the Rue where he might sell
his statues. Outside the doors of the great
Cathedral of Notre Dame was one of the
profitable places to sell saints’ images. Each
day, before Saccaco took up his stand on
the cathedral steps, he entered the portals
to give a few sous to the two Sisters of
Mercy sitting at the doors beside a little
table on which was a collecting box for
poor children. Then he entered the
cathedral, making the sign of the Cross,
and stood as one in the row of visitors,
while the sacristan, with a horsehair switch,
(Continued on page 55.)


GRACEFUL
0
every
Perfectly adapted to the manners
and mode of the time, completely
satisfying, every demand, Fully 0
Fashioned Hose by Prestige is
the ultimate in hosiery 0 .
14111 *=* and *=* 18/ll
ef/osiery
vtsiiA t
FULLY FASHIONED
*>ll wjj i\ » /i'i i Vi l //1 IWMV.'/IftV
T
u 1.1 i
/
(£
r=s-v\
J/V)
-U
mm- d§>
□
\ | | \ 111 Ull' 1 ' ' 1 11
tMimininunim.il ‘
Kllllmilllllllillilulilliu. ,1
/linn
MU/1111l
mui
I 111 U ll > I I 111 I 111 HIM.
4
nil I lui
■
-
mm -
.
:
/ '
/
/
/ T
1,111111,,
.uliluw^ih
■ \i\W^
iw ±
Ht
> *
'
I
*
&
Pb 14


r
5
JELLY
s'
1! \
J
vl/A
sd
Put quality before cheapness
Always say REX-PYE
A cool, tasty lunch
On hot days, when hot food repels, you will
thoroughly enjoy dainty slices of cool REX -
PYE with its firm, cold jelly.
Place a can of REX-PYE on the ice half-an-
hour before lunch —no cooking and swelter-
ing in the kitchen! Serve it with fresh, cool
salad or mint sauce.
REX-PYE is all choice meat of unquestion-
ably first-class quality. Note its delicate
aroma. Enjoy its delicious flavour.
Other REX Pure Foods
11b and %lb CANS
lib CANS ONLY
Baked Beans in Tomato Sauce
Lorraine Smoked Sausages
Pork Sausage
Pork and Beans in Tomato
Sauce
K-be-B (Kidneys, Beans and
Bacon)
Devilled Kidneys
Ox Tongue
Choice Soups (five kinds)
Pork Brawn.
Pig Feet
Fry and Bacon
Beef Sausages
Red-y-mele, choice
beef and vegetables
a ready meal
REX-PYE
In l lb. and y 2 lb. hygienic cans
FOCCITT JONES PTY. LTD.
(Division of Unlhed Provisions Lhd.)
Curers of the Choice REX Hams anc* Bacon


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq*»
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Korthern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities tor the transaction of all general banking business.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Restful auiet and cool—open to the Summer Sea Breezes. Delightfully situated with Private
lieachoVd Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort—Excellent Cuisine and Service.
Spacious Grounds and Garage Accommodation.
Summer Tariff from 5 guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 301?. (4 lines'!. Management M. E. BURROWS.
BY APPOINTMENT.
QMfor
Gordon’s
©IN
The Ingredients used in the production of
GORDON S GIN are of the finest quality procur-
able, and contain the greatest percentage of those
important properties which are considered by the
Medical Profession to be most beneficial to the
human system. It is very highly rectified and contains
no impurities of any kind; it is therefore very easily
digested and also aids the digestion of other beverages
with which it is mixed.
The name “GORDON” guarantees the very high-
est standard of quality and absolute purity: a
reputation enjoyed and jealously guarded tor over
150 years.
The Largest Gin Distillers in the World ♦
WHITEST
PUREST
& BEST
The Heart
oS a good
Cocktail
ami*
dry Gin
«
((Si
Obtainable
Everywhere
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Pen and Picture
Shadow Shows
M e l o drama
with its tongue
in its cheek is
nearly always
diverting on the
screen. Of this
variety is
“Stand and
Deliver”
(P.D.C.). Rod La Rocque is a British
airman with a thirst fpr adventure, who to
escape the horrors of peace, as exemplified
by life in a conservative London club, enlists
in tjie army of Olania, whose Government is
in the throes of a struggle with a large and
influential bandit opposition. The opposi-
tion lives in an abandoned monastery on top
of a cliff, and the only access to it is by
means of an elevator consisting of a basket
hoisted by a donkey attached to a windlass,
the animal being in charge of a blind lift-
man. Highly idiotic and amusing incidents
happen round that basket. The hero rescues
a girl (Lupe Velez) from the bandits and
both are recaptured, and there is much fun in
the monastery in the way of throat-slitting
and skull-cracking—pity the talkies are so
slow in coming to the fore; few of us really
know what sort of noise a perfectly sound
skull makes when it is cracked properly. The
army eventually arrives and rescues the hero
and all depart, leaving the bandit chief
suspended in midair in the elevator, where
he presumably starves to death or bursts
with indignation. The hero takes his bride
home, and she learns bridge and that London
is also full of bandits. The piece refuses
to be serious even over the lady. She is
the first heroine of her type who doesn’t turn
out in the end to be a Balkan princess. Her
only drawback is a habit of registering
emotion by violently agitating her breast-
bone. It must be as exhausting to do as
to look at.
There isi a full measure of careless laughs
in “Pay As You Enter” (Warner Bros ).
Clyde Cook, the solemn-faced 'Australian
comedian, appears as the driver of an electric
tram and there is at least one sub-title with
a real grin in it. It is the one which intro-
duces him as “a living disproof that travel
broadens the mind.”
Although marred by a stale, sloppy and
conventional finish, “Tempest” (United
Artists) is a fine achievement. Sergeant
Ivan Markov (John Barrymore) is a
peasant in the army of the Czar. Through
brilliant soldiering he is given a commission.
His fellow-officers snub him and the Princess
Tamara (Camilla Horn) makes him the
CAMILLA HORN.
object of a
merciless dis-
play of aristo-
cratic snob-
bery at a ball
in the palace
of lier father
the General.
Things are here
plastered on
too thick, but
no matter. He
drowns his
chagrin in
vodka, finds
his way to the
princess’s bed-
room and gets
five years for
being found
there in a
drun k e n
stupor. War
breaks out and
all the pris-
oners are
drafted to the
front - except
Markov. Suffering, assisted by the whisper-
ings of a Red agent, gradually turns him
into a potential anarchist. Russia breaks up,
the soldiers pour home, Markov is released
and finds himself on a Red tribunal con-
demning aristocrats to death at the rate of
dozens to the minute. Finally the princess
comes before him, and, it being a box-office
essential to ruin an excellent piece of art, the
sight of her reawakens love in him and clears
his head of bloodlust. He kills a commissar,
leaps into a drosky and escapes with the
lady into Austria. It is not the fault of the
principals if the background of the picture
bulks larger in the memory than the fore-
ground. That background is packed with
powerful detail. The General (George Faw-
cett), kindhearted, well-intentioned, but
helpless between the contending forces of a
barbarous mob and an equally barbarous
aristocracy; Sergeant Bulba (Louis Wol-
heim), a peasant with the good nature,
loyalty and potential savagery of an Alsatian
hound —these are figures full of real-life
juices; and the pageantry of revolution is
painted with a rare feeling for drama.
As a change from the soulful round of
English and American pictures, dapper
little Consul-General Tokugawa showed
Melbourne some Japanese celluloid the
other evening. The standard of photographic
art in Nippon is not very high, judging by
these specimens, but the country is a gift
to the movie makers. It looks just as if
it had been set for a Hollywood scenario
and the nation looks as if it were
permanently dressed for the shooting of a
gigantic Oriental super-feature entitled
“Love Amongst the Cherry Blossoms.” It
is hard to believe, now that Hollywood has
stereotyped most of the “props.,” that people
really go to work like that, eat with such
utensils, sleep in such houses and worship
in such temples. You expect them any
moment to retire into a dressing-room and
emerge in sac-suits and hard-hitters. A
Japanese Y.W.C.A. worker has just been
visiting Melbourne and telling us that girls
are still sold to factories where the working-
day is 10 to 12 hours, so no doubt there
is another side to the delightful picture.
“The Question of Marriage” (U.F.A.) is
a German attempt to put a three-decker
novel into a paragraph. Toinette, a young
singer, meets Count Lesiegang, a wealthy
libertine, and agrees to marry him if he will
get her voice trained. Alas, it is her body
the Count cares for; her voice is nothing.
In fact, he falsely tells her she has lung
trouble and that the doctor forbids her sing-
ing. The Count is consumed with jealousy,
for lovers surround the lady, and one of them
gets rid of him by giving him an overdose
of medicine. Toinette secures a small part
in “Carmen”—the story proceeds gradu-
ally as a trilogy by Arnold Bennett. Kreuzer,
a composer, writes an opera for her called
“The Murderess.” She takes the leading
rdle and in the supreme tension of the trial
scene confesses she actually is an assassin.
The audience, missing the full import of her
confession, hails her as the greatest tragic
prima donna; she confides in Kreuzer, who
exonerates her and suggests that she must
change her name to be happy. The operatic
scenes* are well done, and Lil Dagover is
emotionally sufficient as the heroine, but the
plot is as ponderous as the furniture.
The Inky Way
“D. Empson”: The people of the bush
lost a good friend when the pen slipped out
of Robert McMillan’s fingers last week.
As “Gossip” of the Sydney Stock and
Station Journal, and in later years of the
Brisbane Grazier, McMillan wrote cheer-
fully on all sorts of subjects, from human
origins to the no-breakfast cure. Some of
his pleasant articles were collected into
books, which had a good sale abroad as well
as a big one in Australia. The kindly old
philosopher (he was 82 at the end) helped
to found the N.S.W. Institute of Journalists
and was its first secretary.
“Urarnao”: Charles Haines, sometime
managing editor of the Daily Times in
Wairarapa and founder of Maoriland’s
pioneer advertising agency—it now employs
70 hands—is dead, aged G 7. He used to
delight in telling a story of his newspaper
days. Came a skeleton cable message read-
ing, “Premier Galldstone Nice.” The office
genius amplified it to “The Prime Minister
of England is suffering from gallstones, but
is progressing nicely.”
“Ivonara”: Touching the nearness of- The
Bulletin office to Sydney’s vanished Tank
Stream (B. 13/2/’29), .T. F. Archibald wrote
in the Lone Hand of September, 1907: —
The offices in which The Bulletin first built
up its reputation were over the old Tank Stream, on
land reclaimed from the Circular Quay foreshore.
When heavy rain fell, or during spring tides, it
was a frequent occurrence for the gas engine to be
driven while resting in three feet of mud and slush
—soakage from the Tank Stream bed. The “roof” of
the cellar was about six feet above the earth floor, and
to get to the motive power the machinist had to
crawl through a hole about 2ft. x 2ft. made in
the foundations, and wade through the mud. When
the engine “played up” (which was often) the
printer’s devil grinned satanically at the sight ot
the burly form of Traill, in his singlet, ploughing
through the mud to try his ’prentice hand on a
very cranky engine. For Traill took a very practical
interest in The Bulletin’s welfare —from the pro-
duction of a brilliantly written, unanswerable leader
to the phlegmatic explosions of an obsolete gas
engine.
And rats! —Hamelin Town never had such
a hungry multitude as scampered through
that old office in. Pitt-street. Traill once
half-finished another of his famous two-
column leaders and left it overnight; in the
morning he found it bitterly attacked m
27 places. But James Edmond’s particular
abhorrence was not rats but a procession of
German bands which tootled outside the
office. He stood it in silence for months;
then one day, looking out the window, he
saw a large trombone invitingly upturned.
Seizing an armful of Hansards lie poured
them into the waiting brass, and left Wil-
liam Macleod, who was down below, to
explain the “accident” to a deeply annoyed
Teuton. Edmond’s responsibility for the
Great War that arrived a third of a century
later has never been settled.
“Pabellco” : E. S. Watson, whose cartoons
appear in the Brisbane Daily Standard
and other Labor papers, moved from the
copybox to the art-room. As a youth he
was on the now merged B-undaberg (Q.)
Daily News, where in intervals of proof-
reading he developed his bent for drawing
and caricaturing. He did more than sketch his
subjects. Working wholly with makeshift
appliances, he photo-engraved the sketches
and prepared them for printing, leaving be-
hind when he moved to Brisbane a very
comprehensive selection of district notables
in imperishable zinc.
“Lalage”: So far from leaving the Presby-
terian Ladies’ College, Melbourne, under a
cloud, “Henry Handel” Richardson (B.
13/2/’29) had a cantata of her own com-
position performed at the school concert in
her last year there. It was many years
later, when she was engaged upon “Maurice
Guest,” that she wrote “The Getting of Wis-
dom,” which Gerald Gould has called the
best girls’ school story ever written ; and it
was soon after “The Getting of Wisdom”
was published that she revisited Australia,
and was not, in spite of her Continental
reputation, made welcome by her old school.
The lady’s chief object in coming, though,
was achieved. She gathered or increased the
vast body of material about early days in
Ballarat and Melbourne that she has used
in “The Fortunes of Richard Mahony.”
“Pila” : J. B. Cooper, author of “A Rogue
in Amber,” is a historian as well as a novel-
ist. He wrote the official histories of Bright-
on and St. Kilda (Vic.), and brought to
light many interesting facts regarding land-
marks, such as the old drill-hall in Brighton,
where Adam Lindsay Gordon joined as a
member of the local artillery company and
Major Moule (father of the Australian XI
cricketer who was to become a Judge) was
in his glory as head of the militia. St.
Kilda, Cooper found, was named by Gover-
nor Latrobe after Sir Thomas Ackland’s
yacht, the Lady of St. Kilda, which was
usually anchored off the beach when diver-
sions were staged there by the elite of Port
Phillip.
“Sucre”: Yes, The Bulletin gets every-
where. During the late bush-fires about
the Sydney suburb of Bankstown a fair-
sized gum hit the earth. A crows’ nest kissed
the ground at the same time, and so did
the red coat of The Bulletin of January
16. The birds had used it to wall-paper their
house.


A
SECRET
a secret sixty years old 1 And dur-
ing all that time it has been bringing
vital health to thousands of people in
every civilized country in the world.
What is this secret? Just this:
that the inner cleanliness on which
good health depends is best main-
tained through the simple rule a
glass of water sparkling with a “dash”
of Eno first thing every morning.
Gently and naturally Eno helps the
system to free itself of its daily waste
and keeps your blood-stream clean
and vigorous.
Eno does its work so pleasantly. The
idea that only unpleasant purgative
mineral salts can be good for you has
long been exploded. In this climate
nothing can really take the place of the
morning draught of EnoV'Fruit Salt”
with its beneficial effect upon the
whole system.
To celebrate their Diamond Jubilee, J. C. Eno Ltd.,
have collected into a book sixty of Mr. Punch’s
inimitable illustrations one for each year from
1868 to 1927. It shows in an amusing and attract-
ive way how manners and habits have changed.
Sent post free for 3d iu stamps. The British
Harold F. Ritchie & Co., Ltd., 333 George Street,
Sydney, N. S. W.
ST
;\
vv
/
/
P
i,„
,;■
V
*Ni
\
jr d
9ns
If 3j m
M
rnmmw
*
M
{mark)
TRADE
Sn two sizes at Chemists and Stores
es=
C 3
Elgin is more than a watch —it is a
guardian against waste time. Steadily it
ticks off the seconds, the minutes, the
hours —exact to a hair’s breadth, keeping
you always up to time.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS
&lgin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELEGANCE AND* EFFICIENCY
/hi? Jrade Mark
in the Watch (are
105
mu fm mo iPM jQ £
v?S
||
81
Select Club Reil Cigars, because they are
made of rich Havana leaf, fragrant and
flavorsome .... and delightfully mild. Club
Reil Cigars are obtainable at hotels and
tobacconists’ or at address below.
ORDER BY POST.
9
i
&
Gl
CIGARS
CRAIG &AITKEN - 654 GEORGE ST, SYDNEY
DIST R I B UTORS FOR CLUB REIL CIGAR FACTORY.
fs
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


Firearms sent C.O.D.
sdf
Here's an Absolute Bargain.
A FRENCH 12-gauge D.B. Hammer-
less Gun specially made for me by
St. Etienne Arms Co.; 30in. barrels,
left full choke, right | choke, for
2ain. cartridges; weight 7flb. Price,
£B/10/- post free. VERY STRONGLY
MADE. Just the Gun for Australian
conditions.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
’Phone: MA 3540.
Gunsmith, Importer of High-grade Firearms,
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
1438 Elizabeth Street (near Market
Street), Sydney.
(Late 110 Bathurst Street.)
Welcome the Coming—Speed the Parting Guest with
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER,
RESCH’S SYDNEY BITTER BEER.
Ask for Resch’s by Name.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHJLP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
Keiv^Rotion
tH e
Dog food
Supreme
ar
A perfectly balanced meat ration;
keeps dogs of all kinds in
the pink of condition.
FREE—Sample Tin sent to any address
in the Commonwealth on request.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from
W. C. SCHWAB
P. O. Box 1821, Melbourne
Ken-T t Ration
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
In winning the 32nd Futurity Stakes at
Caulfield on Saturday, Mollison did what
neither "Heroic nor Manfred could do as
three-year-olds, and he accomplished his
task brilliantly. It was a tremendously
popular win, for Mollison has always been a
favorite with Melbourne racegoers, whose
faith in him did not weaken in spite of his
spring failures. There were seven starters,
but only two horses were asked for by
backers, Gothic being 5 to 4 on, after evens
had been bet, and Mollison 3 to 1 against.
Mollison did not jump away as smartly
as the others, but Daniels soon rushed him
through the field and he was bowling along
in front when they had gone a furlong.
Greenline, however, joined him, and they
raced together down the railway stretch,
with Black Duchess, John Buchan and Fis-
sion next, Gothic being last but one. Green-
line headed Mollison three furlongs from
home, but they came into the straight to-
gether, Gothic, who had been disappointed
twice w’lien going for openings, being still
second last. When heads were turned for home
Mollison went away from Greenline, and
though Gothic, getting clear at last, made
a brilliant run, E. M. Pearce’s flier won,
untroubled, by a length and a half; the
favorite cut Greenline out of second place
by a head, Black Duchess being fourth.
The time, lmin. 26isec., was only a little
behind Gothic’s record for the course, so
there was nothing wrong with the going.
Sol Green had started the day well in
the St. Clair Trial, his imported filly, My
Lady Gay, a hot favorite at 6 to 4, winning
on the bit from Nagrada (14 to 1) and
Ganesh (10 to 1). It was a most impres-
sive performance, though the field was not
high-class, and the chestnut daughter of
Gay Crusader and Chivalry is sure to be
heard of again. E. M. Pearce also had
an early stroke of fortune in the Alma
Stakes for two-year-olds; his filly, Spanish
Galleon (G to 1), by Caravel-Military Cross,
beat a big field of youngsters in smashing
style, 31 lengths separating her from her
nearest pursuer, Hebrus (12 to 1), when
the judge Was reached. Daniels, Mollison s
pilot, had the mount.
Finsbury has been a most expensive horse
to his party, having failed time and again
when heavily backed. Jack Brewer and Cecil
Godby gave him another chance in the Wood-
cliff Handicap, and the public following the
stable lead, the St. Alwyne gelding started
favorite at 5 to 2, Octember, from Sydney,
being well backed at fours, and Guineas
winner Balmerino at fives. Kidaides (10
to 1). one of the S. Aus. representatives,
took the lead in the straight, and though
Octember finished well after striking trouble
once or twice, the gelding from Adelaide had
enough left in him to win by a neck, Fins-
bury being a length and a quarter away
third. Westralian jockey Perciva! was vigor-
ous, as usual, on Kidaides, who is in the
Australian ,Cup with 6st. 131 b., 51b. less
than he won with.
* * * *
A. T. Craig’s Yalais colt Gilt Edge, who
had run a good race in the Oakleigh Plate,
was always favorite (5 to 2 at the close)
for the Stanley Plate for three-year-olds.
Tich Wilson dashed him through on the rails,
and he won by lengths from Allecret (12 to 1)
and Bonny (10 to 1). But Karuma, favorite
(at threes) for the Hawksburn Handicap, let
his backers down, St. Ardent (7 to 2) clear-
ing out from the field to win by 5 lengths
from Greensborough (12 to 1); Margaux
(33 to 1) was another half-length away,
Karuma finished a long way back, but he
requires room, and Caulfield would hardly
suit him. Bob Lewis succeeded, where
others have failed, in keeping St. Ardent on
a straight course, and after the races the
St. Anton gelding, who is in tho Newmarket
with 7st. 41b., was second only to Mollison in
the betting.
* * * *
Gothic has a wonderful record in the
Newmarket Handicap, and if the going is
good he will take beating, with all his weigut
—lOst. 71b. Mollison (Bst. 131 b.) has great
speed, but he will find the Newmarket harder
to win than the Futurity. Greenline (9st.
131 b.). Aga Khan (Sst. !)lb.) and Karuma
(Bst. Gib.) have claims, and among the light-
weights Figure (7st. 71b.) and St. Ardent
(7st. 41b.) are an attractive pair. This
Page likes Karuma best, his Caulfield
failure notwithstanding; and for the Aus-
tralian Cup. though T. M. Burke’s Mondiaga
(7st. 111 b.) has done all that he has been
asked to do, The Bulletin will pick Octem-
NOT LIKELY.
TRICK GOLFER: “Now, unless my assistant moves his head, he is in no danger."
her (7st. 51b.) to beat him and all the rest.
This horse is evidently a good deal better
in Melbourne than in Sydney, as was the
case with Bitalli, who was bred on much the
same lines. Kidaides and old Naos
(7st. 131 b.) may also account for the
favorite, and Some Quality (7st. 51b.) is
a good bit of stuff. Fancies: —
Newmarket Handicap: Karuma, 1;
Gothic, 2; Mollison, 3.
St. Leger: Strephon.
Essendon Stakes: Black Duchess.
Sires’ Produce Stakes: Parkwood.
Australian Cup: Octember, 1; Kidaides,
2; Naos, 3.
* * * *
Winalot, Jocelyn, Sion and Raasay were
among the 15 horses saddled up for the
Dundas Handicap at Rosehill on Saturday,
and speckers backed the four. But their
appearance suggested that they hadn’t done
much work —in point of fact, long-continued
rain has delayed the preparations of some
of the Randwick cracks —and they ran
accordingly, finishing well behind the place-
getters, Quince (7 to 2), Herilda (20 to 1)
and Cleave (4 to 1). Quince, about whom
fives were laid, won nicely, and little Parr,
the new star in the jockey firmament,
handled him well.
On his running at Warwick Farm, Lord
Kennaquhair looked a fair thing tor the
February Handicap, and a bookmaker went
round the ring snapping up 5 to 2, twos
being the closing quote. As it happened, the
chestnut, who is so like his sire, was hard
put to beat the ancient Valamita (10 to
1). but he had had to pace the field up to
Honan and then shake off that fast horse,
ridden with more restraint he might have
had an easier time at the finish. At all
events, he should be worth following, especi-
nlly by tote punters. His time for the 11
furlongs was 2min. 20-jsec. Lord Kenna-
quhair was one of five favorites to win
during the dav —the worst Mcbhortodds has
had for months. Still, the gentleman can
stand it.
* * * *
For Moorefiold to-day :
Flying Handicap: Black Douglas; next,
Bacagi. _ .
Moorcfield Handicap: Quince; next,
Spaghetti.
Hurstville Mile: Chuqmsaca; next,
Tresillian.
For Ilawkesbury on Saturday:—
Park Stakes: Nina Blankney; next,
N.M.E.
Clarendon Handicap: Tressihan.
Flying Handicap: Black Douglas; next,
Colmera.
Autumn Handicap: Spaghetti; next,
Drawbridge.
Highweight Handicap: Bacagi; next,
Amusement.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
When Jack Roberts, Newcastle’s hard-
hitting lightweight, sent “Kid” Johnson into
Slumberland in the first round a few weeks
ago, the Filipino reckoned the result a fluke
and pleaded for a return match. It eventuated
at Sydney Stadium on Saturday night, and
the brown man was again made to look like
a punehing-bag. being knocked out with a
smashing right to the jaw after about two
minutes of the first round had gone. The
result of these two fights should do our local
lads an immense amount of good. Roberts
scaled 9st. 41b. and Johnson 9st. 31b.
* * * *
Two of the smaller fry in Les Ferris
(Bst. 11b.) and Tommy Brooks (Sst. 61b.)
met at Melbourne Stadium on Saturday
night. Ferris was favorite with the sporting
nobility, but Tommy’s right to the chin in
tlfe third badly rattled him, as did another
in the next period, which nearly finished the
fight. Les came back well, however, over
the later rounds, and outpointed the belli-
gerent Thomas. Referee Val Quirk adjudged
the run too late and entered a verdict for
Brooks.
The Ins and Outs
The Sheffield Shield match in Brisbane
between Queensland and South Australia
saw the batsmen of both sides in trouble on
a rain-affected wicket. South Australia
went for 185 in their first knock, only
Harris (61) and Alexander (66) stemming
the attack. Wickets were evenly divided
Oxenham having the best average, with 6
for 39. The home side had to go all out in
its turn to collect 188. Skipper Nothling
(50) and Thompson (37) made an invalu-
able stand, while Bensted (40) had a welt
at everything that came along, a justifiable
policy under the conditions. Fast-bowler
Wall helped his Test chances by taking 4 for
47.
$ * >!< *
“W. G. Snort”: An incident in the fourth
Test goes to show that even the cricket ex-
perts of the daily press can display a Jnmenr-
able ignorance of the rules of cricket. A
bail returned from the field to Tate was out
of his reach when it stopped. Oxenham,
batting at the bowling end, walked out of
his crease and tapped if to .Tate with his
bat, the ball knocking the bails otT. The
expert then commented that Oxenham would
have “had to go out” had there been an
appeal. The only rule even remotely bear-
ing upon the matter is 28, which says that,
if in running or at any other time when
the ball is in play, the batsman be out of
his ground and the wicket is struck down
by the ball “after touching any fieldsman,’
the batsman is “run out.” Here the
ball was lying still on the pitch after
being thrown in from the field, and no one
was attempting to run or play. No umpire
outside Oallan Park would have listened to
an appeal on such grounds, and it was not
the “wonderful sportsmanship” attributed to
them by the expert that prevented the Eng-
lishmen from appealing but their knowledge
of the rules.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: There is a popular impres-
sion that cricket is unknown in America out-
side Philadelphia, where the finely-equipped
grounds have aroused the admiration of more
than one Australian XI. That this is a
fallacy is shown by a recent article in an
English sporting paper by a Briton long resi-
dent in America. He asserts that cricket is
regularly played all over the country, with
associations, competitions and inter-city
games established as a regular thing. Even
lurid Chicago boasts a flourishing associa-
tion, though how Mayor Bill Thompson man-
aged to overlook this passes comprehension.
The game doesn’t get much publicity in the
papers, but quite a number of the native-born
play it, in addition to Britons and Jamaican
negroes, these being fairly plentiful in the
States, where they have a reputation as effici-
ent workmen.
* * * *
“P. Syrius” : The English team is not a
brilliant' one. It is a tradesmanlike band of
skilled players who can plod Along stodgily
and reliably. Neither is it the. best
that has ever cctene out. It is not m the
same field with the team which included
Barnes and F. R. Foster, in which were
also Hobbs and Rhodes. That team met and
defeated an Australian XI that was really
o-reat. Bardsley was hopeless against I ester
and Strudwick, match after match—caught on
the leg side. He knew the trouble but could
not counter it. In other words, he was up
against a brilliant bowler too good for him.
* * =1= *
“Cash Amateur”: Every follower of cric-
ket outside the gate-money gang will welcome
the motion put before the S.A.C.A. by C.
Jennings, of the 1912 XI. He moved that the
over-preparation of wickets,, which had re-
sulted in the complete mastery of batsmen
over bowlers, be abolished, and that rules be
laid down defining the maximum of prepara-
tion to be allowed in future. As South Aus-
tralia is one of the adherents to the coyering-
the-wicket foolishness, in which Victoria and
Queensland also join, the appointment of a
committee to go into the .matter by the S.A,
body may be taken as evidence that a sanei
spirit is making itself felt in the. game. Th(
usual inspired ass has aired his ignoranci
in the daily press to the effect that th<
batsman who will stand up to fast bowling
on any but an artificial wicket is yet to b<
found. They were found in hundreds •>(
years ago, when the wicket got no prepara
tion but mowing, watering and rolling, an;
it would be a confident individual who wouh
assert that the batsmen of 1900 were no
the equals of those of to-day. When one coin
pares the fast bowlers of that period to tliei
pale and ineffectual imitators of this yea
of grace, the comparison grows even mor
odious.
(Continued on page Jfl.)
THE UBIQUITOUS ONE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wherever chaps their glasses drain
And kindred souls delight
To smoothen out life’s crumpled skein
In tragic Fate’s despite;
And, other topics done, recite
Prad exploits for the nonce,
Some blighter breathes (before his bite)
“I useter ride ’em once !”
And uninvited he’ll relate
How he, “with twelve-stone up,”
Rode Beat-’em-all at Bogan (late,
And would have won the Cup
Except that he had just a sup
Too much—“the first for munce” ;
Then chortle (while you fill ’em up)
“/ useter ride ’em once !”
Then what to back at Randwick, or
Condobolin, or Perth,
Or Normanton, or Bungendore,
Or any place on earth,
He’ll whisper while he eyes the dearth
Of beer bought with your bunce;
And rouse your anger or your mirth:
“J useter ride ’em once!”
If there are pubs in Paradise
Where thirsty souls repair
To sluice their throats and give advice
About a horse (or mare),
I’ll bet around those hostels fair
There’ll be some ghostly dunce
To croak anew liis earthly blare:
“J useter ride ’em once!” *
N.S.W.
HOMFREY BEALE.


Sporting;.
AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY CLUB.
AUTUMN MEETING
RANDWICK RACECOURSE,
MARCH 30; APRIL 1,3, 6, 1929
FIRST DAY, SATURDAY, MARCH 30.
THE FIRST HURDLE RACE—£7SO
added. About two miles.
THE AUTUMN STAKES (Standard
Weight-for-age)—£2soo added. One
mile and a half.
THE DONCASTER HANDICAP—£3OOO
added. (Entries closed.) One mile.
THE A.J.C. SIRES’ PRODUCE STAKES
—£sooo added. For two-year-olds, the
produce of sires nominated. (Entries
closed.) Seven furlongs.
A.J.C. ST. LEGER—£2SOO added. For
three-year-olds. (Entries closed.) One
mile and three-quarters.
THE HIGH WEIGHT HANDICAP—£IOOO
added. Lowest handicap weight, Bst.
Seven furlongs.
SECOND DAY, MONDAY, APRIL 1.
THE FLYING HANDICAP—£IOOO added.
Six furlongs.
THE EASTER STAKES—£IOOO added.
For two-year-olds that have not won a
race (other than a handicap) of the
value of £lOOO to the winner at time
of running. Colts, Bst. 21b.; fillies, Bst.;
geldings, 7st. 131 b. The winner of any
race (not a handicap) of the value of
£5OO to the winner to carry 71b. extra.
Maidens at time of running allowed
71b. Seven furlongs.
THE SYDNEY CUP—£6OOO added and a
Gold Cup valued at £2OO. (Entries
closed.) Two miles.
THE FIRST STEEPLECHASE £750
added. About two miles and a quarter.
THE WENTWORTH HANDICAP —£10u<'
added. For two-year-olds. Six furlongs.
THE TOCAL HANDICAP—£IOOO added.
One mile and a quarter;
THIRD DAY, WEDNESDAY, APRIL 3.
THE SECOND HURDLE RACE—£7SO
added. About two miles and three fur-
longs.
THE ALL-AGED STAKES (Standard
weiglit-for-age)—£3ooo added. One mile.
THE COOGEE HANDICAP—£IOOO added.
One and a furlong. .
THE CHAMPAGNE STAKES £3OOO
added. For two-year-olds. (Entries
closed.) Six furlongs.
THE CUMBERLAND STAKES (Standard
weight-for-age)—£2ooo added. One mile
and three-quarters.
THE CITY HANDICAP—£IOOO added. One
mile and five furlongs.
FOURTH DAY, SATURDAY, APRIL 6.
THE ROUS HANDICAP—£IOOO added.
Lowest handicap weight, 7st. 71b. Seven
furlongs.
THE DANGAR HANDICAP—£IOOO added.
One mile and a half.
THE SECOND STEEPLECHASE—£7SO
added. About three miles.
THE FERNHILL HANDICAP £lOOO
added. For two-year-olds. Seven fur-
longs.
THE A.J.C. PLATE (Standard weight-for-
age)—£2ooo added. Two miles and a
quarter.
THE FINAL HANDICAP—£IOOO added.
Lowest handicap weight, 7st. One mile
and a quarter.
NOTE.—The General Entries for the
above Meeting are to be made with the Sec-
retary of the A.J.C., Sydney; Y.R.C., Mel-
bourne ; Q.T.C., Brisbane; S.A.J.C., Adel-
aide ; W.A.T.C., Perth ; W.R.C., Wellington
(N.Z.) ; T.R.C., Hobart (Tas.) ; or N.J.C.,
Newcastle, before 4 o’clock p.m. on MON-
DAY, 4th MARCH, 1929. The first forfeit
for the A.J.C. St. Leger (forfeit £1), A.J.C.
Sires’ Produce Stakes (forfeit £1) and
Champagne Stakes (forfeit £1) may be de-
clared and paid to the Secretary of the
A.J.C., Sydney; Y.R.C., Melbourne; Q.T.C.,
Brisbane; S.A. J.C., Adelaide; W.A.T.C.,
Perth: W.R.C., Wellington (N.Z.) ; T.R.C.,
Hobart (Tas.). or N.J.C., Newcastle, before
4 o’clock p.m. on MONDAY, 4th MARCH,
1929. The first forfeit for the Doncaster
Handicap and Sydney Cup may be declared
to the foregoing before 4 o’clock on MON-
DAY, 18th MARCH, 1929.
First forfeit £1 for each race to be paid
with entry. If entries are made by telegram
the amount of first forfeit must be tele-
graphed.
A.J.C. Rules of Racing, By-laws and
Regulations to be observed.
Owners and Trainers must declare pen-
alties incurred, and claim allowances due at
date when making entries.
Programmes with full conditions may be
had on application.
6 Bligh-street, C. W. CROPPER,
Sydney. Secretary.
VICTORIA RACING CLUB,
FLEMINGTON.
\UTUMN MEETING
MARCH 2,5, 7 and 9.
NEWMARKET HANDICAP
AUSTRALIAN CUP
C. M. LLOYD STAKES
KING’S PLATE
AUTUMN STEEPLECHASE
ARTHUR V. KEWNEY, Secretary.
Sporting.
AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY CLUB.
Warwick Farm Races
SATURDAY, MARCH 23, 1929
(The Saturday preceding the Randwick
Autumn Meeting).
THE FARM STAKES—£2OO added. For
three-year-olds and upwards which have
not at time of starting won a race on
the flat (Maiden race excepted) of the
value of £lOO to the winner. Lowest
handicap weight, 7st. Seven furlongs.
THE FAIRFIELD HANDICAP £350
added. For two-year-olds. Highest
handicap weight, 9st. 51b. Six furlongs.
THE LIVERPOOL HANDICAP £5OO
added. (Entries closed.) Six furlongs.
THE CHIPPING NORTON STAKES
(Weight-for-age with penalties and
allowances; for three-year-olds and up-
wards) —£1000 added. The winner, since
l/8/’2B, of any race not a handicap of
the value of £5OO to the winner to carry
a penalty of 31b.; of two or more such
races a penalty of 51b.; of any such
race of the value of £lOOO to the winner,
a penalty of 71b. Penalties not to be
cumulative. Maidens at time of starting
allowed: three-year-olds, 71b.; four-
year-olds and upwards, 141 b. One mile
and a quarter.
THE WARWICK FARM AUTUMN CUP
—£looo added. (Entries closed.) One
'mile and a half.
THE C ABRAM ATT A HANDICAP—£3OO
added. Lowest handicap weight, 7st.
71b. One mile.
The general entries for the above meet-
ing are to be made with the Secretary of
the A.J.C., Sydney; V.R.C., Melbourne;
Q.T.C., Brisbane; 5.A..T.C., Adelaide;
W.A.T.C., Perth (W.A.) ; W.R.C.. Welling-
ton (N.Z.) ; T.R.C., Hobart (Tas.) ; or
N..1.C., Newcastle, before 4 o’clock p.m. on
MONDAY, MARCH 4, 1929.
£1 forfeit must accompany each entry.
If entries are made by telegram, the
amount of forfeit must also be telegraphed.
Weights for minor events to be declared
at 9.30 a.m. on MONDAY, MARCH 18,
1929, or such other time as the Committee
may appoint.
A..T.C. Rules of Racing, By-laws and
Regulations to be observed.
Owners and trainers must declare penalties
incurred and claim alloicanccs due at date
when making entries.
Programmes with full conditions may be
had on application.
6 Bligh-street, C. CROPPER,
Sydney. Secretary.
X
You can Wipe the Mort-
gage Off your House.
Possess Insurance, and effect a
saving in cost. Particulars of this
sound business investment from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNEM. STREET, SYDNEY".
If any illustration in Tiie Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Timber Workers’ Strike.
TO THE PUBLIC OF NEW SOUTH WALES
The issues in this strike are simple but of outstanding importance. They are: —
1. The open defiance of an Industrial Award of the Federal Arbitration Court
—which Court was selected by the Union and embraced by it on every other
occasion for the past ten years.
2. The hour question was decided not by one Judge but by the Full Arbitration
Court.
3. One half of the Union has for the past six years always worked 48 hours, and
is still prepared to do so. It is vitally important to note that even if the
Employers accepted the Union terms to-day the whole bush sawmills and
the log band sawmills in the cities would be on the basis of 48 hours.
4. The Union’s attitude is “Heads I win and tails you lose,’’ as is evidenced by
the fact that when the Court on a previous occasion granted retrospective
pay totalling over £lOO,OOO it accepted with alacrity.
5. The Employers are obeying the law of the land, whilst the Union defies the
law, abuses the Judges, and usurps to itself the right to picket the yards,
intimidate law-abiding Avorkers, use mob rule and violence to men seeking to
obey the laws of the country.
Do you stand for our Democratic Institutions or the Autocracy of the Reds
and Goulbui-n Street?
Authorised by
THE SYDNEY AND SUBURBAN TIMBER MERCHANTS’ ASSOCIATION.
F. H. CORKE,
Secretary.
*WMCff£ST£R
TRADE MARK
RANGER
SHELLS
§
m
)
•a***
&
wa
.lhAm,/'
6-28
A
shell at
moderate price
For your all round shooting use
the new Winchester Ranger
weather proofed shell. A quality
smokeless powder shell that will
cut your shooting cost. With a
higher brass base. New improved
primer. Sure fire. Uniform. Per-
fect pattern.
For sale by dealers everywhere
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS CO.
New Haven, Conn.,U.S.A.
Always use Winchester Ammunition with Winchester Arms
tfney are made for each other-
Rheumatism
AFFECTS THE HEART
Backache Makes You Old
r .
m
IN a Ministry of Health report, Sir George Newman says that
almost all deaths from heart disease in people under 40 are
due to rheumatic infection. Rheumatism is usually due to uric-
acid poisoning, as also are most forms of Backache, Joint Pains,
Stiff Shoulders and Swollen Limbs. These troubles make you
look and feel old years before your time —and they are often
dangerous. There are several good remedies, but the most effective
is undoubtedly Harrison’s Pills.
Consider These Facts:
1.
Harrison’s Pills act quickly on the real cause of the trouble, as
well as giving prompt, sure relief to the painful symptoms.
2.
Harrison’s Pills include a combination of eight of the most valuable
agents known for the removal of uric-acid poison and deposits.
3.
Harrison’s Pills are a safe and successful treat-
ment for Kidney, Bladder and Urinary Disorders
and Inflammations, Uric-acid Complaints, Scald-
ing Pains, Groin Pains and Gravel.
HARRISON’S
KIDNEY 1 BLADDEB
0 PILLS
U«-o.feu
AimSUN’S
KIDNF.Y and BLADDER.'"
PI LLS
Harrison’s Pills succeed even in obstinate
cases that defy other forms of treatment.
5.
Harrison’s Pills
are guaranteed to do you
good or cost you nothing.
An Open Offer to Sufferers
If you want to throw off your trouble and get back real active
health—consider this offer. It means a return to fitness or no
cost. The offer is an open one, but we don’t fear that, since we
believe no sufferer from such painful ills as rheumatism, backache,
joint pains or urinary trouble who finds grateful relief will be
unfair. Harrison’s Pills have been sold in Australia for nearly
four years on satisfaction-or-money-back terms, and claims are
less than l-900th of one per cent, of sales, or practically nil
Grateful testimonials continually arrive from all parts.
Simply Do This
Post the coupon below for a Free Sample, or get from the nearest
chemist or store a regular package of Harrison’s Pills. There are
three sizes, at 2/-, 3/- and 5/-, the larger being most economical.
Take the pills as directed and note results. If the sample does
you no good you will lose nothing, for we give it free arid pay
the postage. If you buy a package and receive no benefit, tell us,
and we will return your money at once, without question. We
trust you. We know what Harrison’s Pills will do. They will give
you quick relief —great improvement in Health. We have made
our offer. The Editor of this paper will guarantee we will fulfil
it. If, after that, you continue to suffer, you will do so without
giving yourself a fair chance to get well. Post the coupon NOW,
or get a package from the chemist under the terms
of this honest guarantee.
TRY HARRISON’S PILLS
WITHOUT
COST —
&
c°
c *** a
**> V* f
,V<<^‘
./> a n ft
f "V e ->•*'


Monday io Friday—
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
From 7.30. Minimum Charge, 10/6.
Saturday, Late Gala Night.
Special Table d’HOte Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
From 10 o’clock, Special Supper 15/-, or
a la carte, minimum, 15/-
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 to 5, 4/-. Parties of six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 5.30, 57-
Jack Woods’ Ambassadors Dance
Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and Rhythm that makes dancing an
effortless pleasure.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
K44a
• WJ6NOE&
AUSTRALIAN
. (o-iye>QAHV :
' fK - r f<sv//r/r *T CjS7 aj.Cj/Sc :'/sss Z’/V?’ '7
; es/szui'czra-a G>u*.ut rv- ...... ...........,.
AOAJ *>CSAI/7~y~ '
v*c>fiz g^jz^sjl/jvj?. £fsr **<•,s<<»
NO RIND—NO WASTE
ABSOLUTELY CLEAN
Sold in \lb. cartons, as illustrated, and by weight by all grocers.
—%
Depend On
Wunderlich Quality
Wunderlich Metal Ceilings
Wunderlich Roofing 'J/les
Wunderlich “Durabestos” Building
Sheets
Wunderlich Metal Shopfronts
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
For Fori}) Years, Manufacturers of Quality)
Products for Ceilings, Walls,
and Roofs M
The Ins and Outs
“Country Ped.”: The Test match atmo-
sphere invades even the history lesson. See
what one boy wrote in his essay the Inst d°v
of the Fourth Test: “Elizabeth was Queen of
England; she was the daughter of Hendry. ’
* * * *
“Sarnmajer”: In these days of insubordi-
nate and casual cricketers, it is refreshing
to hear of an instance when' “dis-cip-lin,” as
we used to call it in the Old Unmention-
ables, has been duly observed. Recently
during a cricket match between Junee and
Marrar (N.S.W.) one of the players was
commanded by liis centurion to bowl, and
poipt-blankety refused, because he hadn’t
been put on earlier. Ordered to leave the
field, lie declined, and so was suspended by
the local cricket authorities. It is an un-
usual case. In a cricket experience ranging
from China to Peru, approximately, the
writer has invariably found that the difli-
culty is not in getting people to bowl but to
leave off trying.
* * * *
“Aigburth” : In saying that only one Irish-
man and no Scotsman Ims played in Test
matches (B. 20/2/'2O), “Erka” is probably
right if he refers to men who have learned
their cricket and done their playing in
Ireland and Scotland. Taking actual nat’on-
ality as the criterion, he is wrong. Tim
O’Brien, of Oxford and Middlesex, who was
here with. Lord Hawke in 18S7-BS, played in
two Tests; Gregor Macgregor, the famous
Cambridge and Middlesex ’keeper and three-
quarter, figured in eight.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip’’: Asa player and follower of
cricket for many a long day, 1 cannot recol-
lect the occasion of an English team visiting
Australia when a snarl hasn’t arisen between
the two bodies of sportsmen in one guise or
another. In the red-blooded days of long ago,
snarls developed into action —witness the riot
on the Sydney ground in the time of Lord
Harris. In quite modern times, Fender and
Rockley Wilson started the usual trouble.
Even the otherwise blameless Gilligan em-
broiled two big Queensland cities by suc-
cumbing temporarily to the bite of an un-
identified insect. This time Chapman’s lads
are getting it in the neck because they have not
taken minor fixtures seriously. At the end of
a long tour, criticism of this kind is over the
fence. Everyone wdio has taken part in a
journey of the sort, whether cricket or foot-
ball, knows how bored players get towards
the finish. The famous Siamese twins
are said to have loathed each other
because of their everlasting contiguity.
Members of football and cricket teams fall
into the same condition, and for the same
reason. They display it in their public
appearances.
* * * *
“Ess”: Country cricket can be very inter-
esting. In a match at Gundurimba (N.S.W.)
a batsman hit a ball into a parrot’s nest in
the spout of a tree —and killed the parrot.
The fielders were in a quandary, and the
batsmen continued to run, until a local
Binghi w r as got to climb the tree. He was
appointed tree-climber for both sides. A little
later a ball was hit into the river, and the
man on the boundary gave a boy half a crown
to swim for it. There was more argument
about rules then than when Geary was
massaged. Eventually the boy was appointed
swimmer for both sides. Near the end of the
game a ball crashed through the publican's
window, and Bung yelled across the field,
“Now you’ll have to appoint a flamin’ glazier
for both sides.”
* * * *
“Quantock”: ,T. C. White, the imperturb-
able slow bowler of the English Eleven, cele-
brated his 38th birthday during the match
against N.S.W. in Sydney, though his sil-
vered tresses have led many to believe that
his score was higher. Unlike his brother
amateurs of the team, Chapman and .Tardine.
the Somersetshire man is not a product of
the public schools or Universities. Few
who have watched him on this tour have
recalled the fact that he played for England
against Australia at Leeds in 1921, when he
took 3 wickets against Armstrong’s famous
side.
* * . * *
“Methuselah II.”: .Toe Darling has until
recently mercifully refrained from adding his
voice to the chorus of blither which other cric-
ket veterans have been inflicting on a suffer-
ing public with the daily press as an accessory
to the iniquity. The effort of suppression
must have been too much for the left-hander,
for the other day he erupted in an attack on
the Board of Control for taking the handling
of Australian cricket out of the hands of the
players. That was the best thing that ever
happened to the game in Australia. There are
plenty of folk about can remember the
jokes worked w 7 hen the old gang of players
ran the tours abroad —the Harry scandal,
and the refusal to include Victor Trumper in
the push unless he consented to take £l5O
in place of the customary £3OO guarantee,
for instance. The appointment of the board
saved the credit of Australian cricket
Racquet and Bawl
The inter-State tennis matches in Sydney
last week resulted in an easy win for
N.S.W., which beat Victoria by 14 rubbers
to 2. and Tasmania by 12 rubbers to nil.
The Victorians failed to win a singles match,
but took one of the doubles when Hassett
and Reed beat a strong N.S.W. pair in
Kalms and J. Willard, the other matches
being unfinished through rain. Tasmania
did not win a match. The women players of
the home side were also successful, though
the defeat of champion Daphne Akhurst by
Miss G. Toyne, of Victoria, was a surprise.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: These tennis temperaments
are becoming rather a nuisance. The sahibs
of India have a reputation for treating their
guests with lavish hospitality, but they are
evidently not up to Elizabeth Ryan’s stan-
dards in that respect. Lizzie took part in the
All-India championship meeting at Delhi, and
flabbergasted her hosts by pulling out of the
finals at the last moment, declining to meet
Jenny Sandison, the Indian woman champion.
The lady’s only explanation was that she
didn’t like the way the tourney was run and
was annoyed at the lack of consideration
accorded to competitors. Still, she might
have reflected that India is not accustomed
to welcoming folk so exalted as a champion
tennis player every day in the week.
sfc :H * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: A peculiar course
has been taken by the Australian tennis
authorities in connection with the issue of
the managerial report on the Davis Cup tour.
Copies are to be forwarded to the various
State associations “after certain portions not
given to the press have been censored.” That
sounds interesting, but it is hard to see why
the public which finds the money to support
the Tennis Union, and to finance Davis Cup
teams, should be kept
in ignorance of pos-
sibly important facts
by people who are to
all intents and pur-
poses in the position
of their employees. It
is stated that the re-
port on the women’s
tour is to be issued
next. Naturally,
people will be wonder-
ing whether there is
anything inviting
censoring in that also.
* *
“St. Cloud”: The
reinstatement of the
French pro. Paul
Feret as an amateur
has characteristically
French accompani-
ments. The repentant-
one had to first agree
that he would hand
over all money re-
ceived by him for play-
iu g a s a profes-
sional to the Federa-
tion, which will de-
vote it to charity.
This will dash all
hopes that Suzanne
Lenglen would also be
reinstated. The Fed-
eration, no doubt,
would make no objec-
tion, but what the
frugal Suzanne would
■ say if asked to come
back on the same
terms as Feret will
not bear printing.
* *
“Top Spin”: Tilden
lost no time getting
into harness again
after his re-instate-
ment, and with his offsider, Hunter, is now
touring the States, working up form for a
trip to Europe in the summer, America
is challenging in its own zone for this year’s
Davis Cup, and will not need the champion
for the rounds against Canada, Mexico and
co. It looks a certainty, however, that lie
will be called on for the later bouts in
Europe, including the challenge round with
France, provided America gets so far, as
seems most likely.
■js :!t * *
“Baseline” : Details of the recent scries of
tennis matches between American Vincent
Richards and Karel Ivozeluli, the Czecho-
slovak, show what a top-notcher the latter
must be. Not long ago Richards was
ranked in the world’s best four among the
amateurs, yet in the 18 matches played Koze-
luh won 13. It is a pity that the American
tennis heads could not see their way to per-
mit the proposed match between the profes-
sional pair and Tilden and Hunter.
* * * *
“Let”: There is a strong agitation in
America, led by ex-amateur Vincent Rich-
ards, for the legalising of open tournaments
in w 7 hich amateur and professional tennis-
players could compete together. Most of the
big clubs and associations are in favor of
the innovation, as it would mean a consider-
able increase in revenues. Like some other
sporting bodies, they find that running ama-
teur sporting events is a mighty expensive
business.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hamer” : A friend of mine has found a
new use for his golf furniture- When I
looked in at his flat the other night there
was a beer-shortage which he suggested we
might alleviate by going down, to the pub.
As he knocked at the door I drew his atten-
tion to the interest a policeman was taking
in us. The door opening at that moment,
my friend said in a loud voice, “Sorry to
trouble you ; but I left my golf clubs here
to-day. Could I get them?” A golf-bag and
-clubs were promptly handed out, and with
a friendly nod to the policeman we moved
off. When we got to his flat he drew three
bottles of beer from under the clubs, remark-
ing that he often left the bag at the pub in
case of emergency.
* * * *
“Hamilton”: Play in the Queensland open
md amateur championships will begin on July
10, and trophies are, as usual, on the gener-
ous side. The first eight amateurs in the
open event will tick off 30 holes match play
for the amateur title. Amateur foursomes,
women’s, and handicap events are other
items listed. The Bananalanders would
do well to consider the omission of handicap
events from future championship meetings.
It simply isn’t done nowadays.
* * * *
“Der Jong”: It having been announced
that a party of British amateur golfers will
probably tour Australia shortly, local addicts
are wondering how the visitors will measure
SOMEONE SURE TO BITE.
“Hello, Manic! Been fishin’?”
“No! Jist goin’.”
up with the local cracks. H. R. Sinclair
announced on his return from England
some time ago that Australian amateurs
were far better in the main than, their Eng-
lish confreres. That view may be taken as
a trifle rose-colored, but the fact remains
that tlie British team which recently visited
South Africa had tilings by no means its own
way, though it included such highfliers as
Cyril Tolley.
* * * *
“Hotliam”: A matter of some interest to
golf-club members cropped up in Melbourne
recently when a South Melbourne rate-
payer complained to the council that he had
been seven years w T aiting for election to the
Albert Park Golf Club, which has its links
in a public park. The protest collapsed
when it was discovered that the golf course
w r as open to all-comers on payment of the
usual green fees, but that the club was a
private concern, with its clubhouse on
private ground. Moore Park in Sydney is
another instance of a golf course leading
a double life, so to speak.
* * * *
“Baffy” : A club of which little is heard
nowadays is the cleek, once considered as
essential to the golfer as his driver. Harry
Vardon, a master of the weapon, has lately
been discussing its unpopularity, and avers
this is due to the light and frail nature of
the modern cleek. The club is essentially
an iron driver, designed to get distance with-
out the special qualities demanded of irons
with a greater loft. To do this, says Yardon,
the weight must be there. lie advises the
carrying of two cleeks of different weights
and sizes, one for the shorter cleek shots
which are too long for the mid-iron, and
the other for the distances.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: The controversy over the
adoption of a new standard golf ball con-
tinues to rage in Britain and America, while
in Australia the general consensus seems to
be to sit tight and see what St. Andrews
says. There can be no doubt that the
ordinary golfer does not desire a ball which
will make the game harder for him than it is
at present, and he is likely to have an ally in
the manufacturer. This individual naturally
desires to sell the greatest quantity of balls
to the greatest number of golfers, and the
change to a new type of ball will mean that
the sale of the commodity will be confined
to the comparatively tiny proportion of ex-
pert players. The new ball will necessitate
a heavy capital outlay on new moulds and
other mechanism. The profits from the new
type cannot be expected to offset, this, since
the ordinary player will inevitably adhere
to the type of pill which is best adapted to
his game.
Jjc ♦ >)c *
“Clnypan”: Without entering for the
height record (B. 23/l/’29) Queensland can
boast one or two of the prettiest mountain
golf courses in Australia. One is on ton of
Mt. Tambourine between Brisbane and the
N.S.W. border; another is perched on the
Blackall range, that mountain wall which
guards the western side of Brisbane and runs
northward. As at Tambourine, the setting is
sub-tropical, and the views from the 1600 ft.
high course are equally beautiful, while the
course itself, still strewn with the stumps
of mighty gum-trees, is as sporting as anyone
could wish. The club owning the course is
known as the Manjalda G. C., and owes its
formation to the enterprise of a lady golfer,
Miss Thyra Pickering.
# * * *
“Fluffer”: T. P. Perkins, last year’s
amateur champion of Britain and runner-up
to Bobby Jones in the American amateur
event, had some interesting things to say
about American golf courses and methods
on his return to his homeland. Most inter-
esting is the statement that all the leading
American courses have three sets of tees,
“championship,” “regular” and “short,”
the practice tending to standardise the game
as much as possible. A fair of
a “championship” course measured 6582
yards, with the “regular” 6312 yards and
the “short” 5892. Many Australian players
would consider the “short” course long
enough for their requirements. Associate
members presumably use the “short” courses.
No special provision seems to be made for
them, as is often the case in Britain and
Australia.
* * * *
“Centurion”: N.S.W. golfers will not
generally approve of the renewed refusal of
the trustees to permit Digger golf profes-
sionals to take part in the annual competi-
tion for the A.I.F. Cup, though this is the
fourth successive year that they have. made
application for admission. The excuse is that
the conditions of the trust permit only the
entry of “members of bona fide golf clubs
who have served with the A.1.F.” It is a
puerile one, for since the donor of the cup is
resident in Sydney, the conditions of the trust
could be varied in a few hours. Professionals
are allowed to play with amateurs in “open”
events, and of all competitions one breathing
the spirit of this one should be the last to be
fenced off with the barrier of snobbery.
* * * *
“The McHaggis” : Much emphasis is laid
in golf on the importance of style. What
constitutes style exactly has never been laid
down, but it amounts to mastery of the
method essential to the successful pursuit
of the particular game concerned. The
straight bat, which is the fundamental prin-
ciple of successful batting in cricket, is a
notable instance. Its actual employment
varies with nearly every batsman, good or
bad, but provided the result is achieved,
success follows. As essential as the straight
bat in cricket is the correct swing in golf.
Unless that is mastered the player can never
hope to go far. Here again every great
player, and many of lesser degree, differ in
their methods of attaining the essential. But
provided the result is correct the means
employed to achieve it do not seem to matter.
Recent slow-motion pictures of Bobby Jones
driving show that some of his actions violate
all the strict rules laid down by the theorists.
That does not alter the fact that he is one
of the surest and most consistent of players
with the wooden clubs, while the results he
achieves show that, whatever his methods, he
adheres to the basic principle of the shot.
(Continued on next page.)


BRANDY
A Household Word -
in Sichness&in Health
WEED
In mud, sand or slippery clay,
Weed Tyre Chains grip and hold .
They provide safe, sure traction
that drives the car or truck steadily
onward. Every turn of the motor
is transmitted into actual mileage.
Fuel is economized-safety assured.
Look for the name “Weed” on
every hook.
sd
WEED TYRE CHAINS
4037
Car and Cycle
“Chev.”: Catherine Snowball, a sister of
the late Speaker of Vic. Leg. Assembly, is
the latest to do the trip from Melbourne to
Perth and back by car. Accompanied by a
young girl friend, she covered the 4600 miles
m a Fiat without serious misadventure,
although part of the way led through shift-
ing sands which have nearly submerged the
abandoned town of Eucla.
**.+.*
“Chevroford”: It has been said that 75
p.c. of adults in any population are as irre-
sponsible as children, and the proportion
holds good for motorists. A garage proprie-
tor at the top of one of the stillest climbs
in the Dandenongs (Vic.) keeps a bottle
of Carron oil always ready. On Sundays five
out of ten cars attempting the grade arrive
with boiling radiators, and three out of five
of their owners scald themselves in looking
for the trouble.
* x x *
“Whizz”: It looks as if Malcolm Campbell
will have to take The Bulletin’s advice
and bring his Blue Bird car out to Lake
Perltolili, in Westralia, for his attempt on the
world’s speed record. Further examination
of Verneuk Pan, in the Cape Colony, where
he was to have made his run early in March,
is said to have convinced him that it will be
impossible to get the dried lake-bed into
proper condition for the spin. The West-
ralian natural arena, on the other hand, has
been used for speed tests for some con-
siderable time, and affords almost perfect
going for any type of car.
* x * x
“Te Kuiti” : Maoriland motorists are pull-
ing up their socks in preparation for thoraces
on Buriwai Beach in March. There will be
two star events, the Australasian beach
championship over 21 miles (instead of 50, as
of yore) and the M.L. championship of 24
miles. The New Zealand Cup and the Light-
car Cup have gone from the programme,
both having been won by Australians. Hope
Bartlett and C. East, of N. S. Wales,
will again be competitors, but among the
big cars (his time, each with an eight-cylin-
der 2269-c.c. Bugatti. To give spectators
a better view, the course has been shortened
to 14 miles, which means that 14 turns will
have to be taken in the Australasian cham-
pionship, and 16 in the M.L. event.
* He X X
“Garry”: Major Segrave’s car, the
Golden Arrow, with which he is to make
an attempt to reach a speed of 250 miles an
hour, was literally built to his measure. He’s
a big man, and one of the main problems of
designer J. S. Irving was to find him a place
in the midst of the mass of mechanism. He
sits- well back, nearly over the rear axle,
tucked in between the two driving shafts.
The huge 930-b.p. Napier-Lion engine, with
its 12 cylinders set in three banks, broad-
arrow fashion, lies snugly in the long taper-
ing nose of the body, which sweeps in a
perfect curve to a finely-tapered tail, on
which is a vertical fin. Lateral planes on
the sides of the body are provided, to keep
it steady at top speed. The wheels are set
outside the body and are separately stream-
lined. This enormous three-ton car, which
cost over £lB,OOO, isn’t intended to maintain
its maximum speed for more than a mile or
two. The special Dunlop tyres made for it
are comparatively light in rubber covering,
and the treads won’t last much over 15
seconds at record-breaking pace. There’s no
super-charger, but the compression ratio is
tremendously' high—l 2 to 1. Special fuel,
including alcohol and ether among its com-
ponents, will be used, and for lubricating
nothing better has been discovered than pure
pharmaceutical castor oil, the good old nur-
sery remedy for everything.
x * x *
“Swan”: Perth is showing signs of getting
fed up with the continual round of dirt-
track motor-cycling, so a special stunt
was put up at the Claremont track by way
of varying the proceedings. This took the
form of a motor-cycle race between machines
pulling an ordinary baby perambulator
with a passenger. Many habitues of Clare-
mont are acquainted with the varying types
of motor-cycle which appear on that track.
The most blase of them were not prepared
for the extraordinary variety in makes of
perambulators. It would almost seem time
for a merger in the pram-manufacturing in-
dustry, with a standardisation of spare parts
and mass production on fixed lines.
Miscellaneous
“Adelaide”: The famous Mount Crawford
(S.A.) polo team announces that it has to
break up the old four. Started long ago by
Jhe families of Angas, Barritt, Warren, Mel-
rose and Murray, it came to its best with
a team of inter-State repute, Cyril and Eric
Murray (brothers), Elliott Murray (Tieir
cousin) and Ronald Angas (their brother-
in-law). Elliott Murray is the only one
not selling his ponies, and will, with the
Keynes and Lilliecrapp families, and yet more
Murrays, keep the club going.
“Ilayband” : There is no need (B. 23/l/’29)
to leave the immediate vicinity of Sydney
to witness cock-fighting. Not three miles
from where I live (Central Station is less
than an hour away) Cockfightors’ Gully on
Sunday still lives up to the name bestowed
nearly a century ago. Of course, there is
betting, but the sport being illegal, the Book-
makers’ Opening Chorus and the Punters’
Lament have to be rendered internally, as
it were.
* x * x
“Quato”: The demoralisation of the
Papuan goes insidiously on, and in the
case of the latest example not even
a missionary has raised his voice in
protest. I refer to the recent formation
of a bowling club at Samarai, that Arcadian
isle off the eastern end of the Possession.
The very idea is antagonistic to the policy
of keeping the native as far as possible from
alcoholic temptations, which has been for
many years the key principle of Papuan
administration. In the old days of
the northern goldfields, it was impos-
sible to avoid the spectacle of exhil-
arated miners and others being occa-
sionally paraded before the eyes of the un-
tutored savage, though everything possible
was done to mitigate the horrid impression
produced. The deliberate introduction of
bowls, however, goes beyond anything ever
experienced in this way by anxious offi-
cials and appx-ehensive workers in the vine-
yard. One wonders what the Legislative
Council at Port Moresby is doing.
* * * *
“Nakh”: Queer sports? The Javanese
have some of the most gruesome. One is to
pit a large ant of a very lethargic species
against a number of small ones. To rouse
the big chap to the right pitch of martial
fury his stomach is nipped cut. Despite this
handicap he usually gives a good account of
himself, and before the day is done the field
is strewn with dead and dying antagonists.
The small fellows show extraordinary intelli-
gence. While some distract the maimed
hero’s attention in front, others deploy and
attack him where his rear ought to be. So
much money is lost and won on this puerile
pastime that the Dutch Government includes
in vernacular school-books sermons against
the cruelty of the practice and its disastrous
effects on the morals of its followers.
* * * *
“Colombia”: The curious arrangement
whereby the Racing Club dc France has
charge of sports not connected with
racing—it “ran” the French tennis tour
in Australia, for example—has puzzled more
than one Australian newspaper. One of
these produced a photograph the other day
of the It. C. de F. XV.. one of the most
formidable in France, which has just defeated
the mighty Blackheath Club, and captioned
it “Jockeys bear marks of victorious fray.”
The fact that several of the “jockeys” were
obviously stalwarts of six feet and over,
and weighing anything up to 14 stone, added
to the humor of the production.
* * * *
“Toowong”: The G.P.S. Old Boys’ regatta
on the Brisbane River the other day was
TOM HEENEY, the Maoriland boxer, who
has been matched with Maloney of
Boston.
responsible for an unusual thing, a Brisbane
club four-oared crew being made up of
five brothers—E., G., D., H. and W.
Farquhar (cox). About the nearest old-
timers can recall to this is the Breakfast
Creek R. C. four of long ago. which com-
prised W., Colin, and Joe Bell, all three Eton
and Cambridge oarsmen,
* * * *
“Acme”: The severe frosts in Britain
have given the skaters a great opportunity.
Last week the National Skating Association
conducted the 1500 metres (about 1640yd5.)
race on the historic Lingay Fen in Cam-
bridgeshire ; it was won by tlie_ British
amateur champion. Horn, in 2m. 47 4-ssec.,
or 4yds. worse than evens. Thc_ world's
record for the distance is 2m. 17 3-ssec.
x * * *
“R.G.N.C.”: Like Hinkler, Tom Miles (B.
20/2/'29) came from a Bundaberg worker’s
home and had no influential friends to back
his prowess. His Stawell appearance last
year was amateur-managed, and Miles was
little richer for the big prize. Generally, the
management of the boy has been woeful.
Guided by shrewder heads, he would have
AUSTIN ROBERTSON, the Victorian ex-
G.P.S. champion sprinter, who won the
100 yards division of the world’s pro-
fessional championships in Melbourne.
raked in all the money that was going first,
and ended with the “world” title that has
proved such an empty one.
* * * *
“Stand Off” : N.S.W. Rugby League, with
much declamation and trumpeting, haughtily
refused last week to tender for any match-
dates on the Sydney Cricket Ground, and
decided to hold its big games on the far less
suitable Agricultural arena. The ostensible
reason was the iniquitous charges demanded
by the trustees, these including a percentage
on the thousands of season and complimen-
tary tickets issued by the League. In
shaking the mud of the C.G. off its hoofs,
the League expressed sympathy with its old
friend —I don’t think ! —the Rugby Union,
which has taken up the lease for the season.
It is not likely to be needed. The amateurs
do not pay their players for one thing, and
a big percentage of the cost of staging games
is automatically banished by the fact.
* $ * £
“Gate”: The N.S.W. Rugby League has
evidently realised that the undisciplined con-
ditions allowed to prevail for the last
two seasons must be suppressed if the game
is not to sink to the level of many other
professional sports. A special judiciary com-
mittee of three vice-presidents has been
appointed to deal with offenders, with an
appeal to a board consisting of the com-
mittee and four vice-presidents. The old
system, which allowed the delegates’ commit-
tee to review the decisions of the judiciary
committee, as then constituted, resulted in
each delegate and official acting as a special
pleader for offenders coining from his own
club, with the result that the most ruffianly
incidents were often condoned and penalties
lifted or lightened. It is hoped that League
vice-presidents will show more impartiality.
* t- •!» *
“Old Q.” : Financial arrangements between
the N.S.W. and Queensland Rugby Unions for
the coming season have been completed. On
the N.S.W. visit to Queensland, the home
side will pay for grounds, fares and accom-
modation. In Sydney the home side will
again meet all expenses, and the re-
sulting profit will be equally divided
between the two States. As regards the
All Black games, Queensland pays ex-
penses of the visitors from Sydney and
back, as well as those of players chosen
from N.S.W. and Victoria for the Australia
match in Brisbane. Queensland will take
the first £2OO profits, the balance being
equally divided. It will be an expensive
adventure for the re-born Queensland Union,
but the fame of the All Blacks should at lease
ensure expenses for the season. The Union
might take a leaf out of the Cricket Asso-
ciation’s book, and reserve a large block of
seats at special prices for the games against
M.L.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“S.T.S.”: Is stamp collecting on the down
grade? An English dealer is offering his
wares at “50 to 75 per cent, below catalogue
prices,” adding “especially Colonial.’'
* x x *
“Oroi”: Some time ago a co. was formed
to. manufacture desiccated cocoanut in the
Central Division of Papua. The other day
the Home and Territories Department passed
through four Cingalese experts, who have
gone on to Port Moresby to instruct the
local factory-hands. Australia consumes a
lot of desiccated cocoanut, principally in
confectionery, but has hitherto imported it
all. Papua will in future be able to supply
the whole of its needs.
* * * *
“Riberi”: An announcement by the Com-
monwealth Department of Markets suggests
a fresh field for company promoters; it is
to the effect that a London firm has for-
warded an inquiry for unlimited quantities
of flying-fox skins, especially the wings.
Eastern Queensland, from the Tweed to Cape
York, probably harbors billions of these
bats, which are easily located and collected,
owing to their habit of roosting in large
colonies. And the bat content per square
mile of the Papuan jungles is incalculable.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The balance-sheet of the last
charity carnival in Adelaide is a model
in its way. The takings were £11,750, mainly
from a “king” competition energetically
worked, the rest from a mixed pageant and
sports meeting on the Oval. Total expenses,
under £42, for advertising and printing; and
a supporter gave his cheque for that sum,
leaving every penny of the takings to go to
charities.
* * x *
“Morse”: Mutilated telegrams have pro-
vided material for quite a number of para-
graphs lately, but in sober truth they are
remarkably rare. Of 345,679 telegraph mes-
sages dealt with in Australia during 1928,
642 were the subject of complaint and in 137
of these the mistake was traced to indis-
tinct writing. Anyway, 345,679 messages
represent, conservatively, 5,185,185 words.
25,925,925 letters, or 77,777,775 telegraphic
signals. It would be strange if an occasional
dot didn’t go w'rong in a total like this.
x * x *
“Mulgo” : High timber prices make houses
expensive in a way that the inexperienced
house-buyer doesn’t suspect, especially when
Jerry is the builder. Formerly the smallest
dwellings had heavy hardwood sleepers,
joists, studs and weatherboards, but as prices
have gone up quality has gone down. In
N.S.W. I have seen scores of “pretty villas”
built of flimsy pine throughout. The buyer
doesn’t see the framework or the foundations,
and doesn’t know what is hidden under the
paint; neither can he tell the character of
the roof until it rains—when it may be
necessary to have an umbrella in bed; or
until a stiff breeze blows up—which may
leave no roof at all.
* * * *
Ida Dawson: On her last trip the
Nieuw Holland brought many Australians on
leave from the F.M.S. and various parts of
the Dutch Indies. All were agreed that
there is a great market for Australian tinned
goods up there and that it should be more
energetically exploited. Our jams, they in-
sisted, are superior to those of other coun-
tries ; our tinned fruits and vegetables com-
pare favorably with the U.S. articles, and
fresh apples, grapes and pears are rushed as
soon as they appear on the market after the
ships come in. But you can’t get Australian
sheep’s tongues, except now and then in a
shop at Singapore; and, though the estates
in Java keep large supplies of tinned milk
in their storerooms, it all comes from
Holland and Switzerland. I have often heard
it remarked that, though one can always buy
Australian butter, a tin of Australian milk
is never seen.
* * * *
“Thormanby”: The wide world is familiar
with the dyed dog and the rung-in racehorse,
to say nothing of the cow into whose udder
cream is injected prior to milking tests.
Still, there is always room for new ideas
along these lines, and an exhibitor at a
Yorkshire agricultural show has supplied the
latest. There was a class for the champion
mangold wurzel, and the specimen that
seemed to be coming home on the bit was
so heavy that a hard-headed judge ordered
if to be cut open. The ’operation disclosed
that the mangold had been delicately scooped
out through a small aperture, the hollow
being filled with cement, and the hole artis-
tically covered up. There was little use in
making a scandal; in Yorkshire these little
enthusiasms are regarded with a lenient eye.
So the judges just rejected the exhibit on the
ground that it contained an excess of solid
matter—a grave fault in a mangold wurzel,
■which should be succulent throughout.


I fill
/ /
*a»*
There’s a
big responsibility
attached to your coaster hub.
It must give smooth, effortless
running, and it must pull you up
the moment you press your foot
back there must be no uncer-
tainty and no risk.
The B.W. Coaster Hub amply
fulfils these conditions. Its
perfectly
dustproof shell
ensures sweet running, its
wide braking surface means
perfect safety.
It is a product of Bayliss, Wiley
& Co. Ltd., Birmingham, England
represented in Australia by
JOHN - ARNOLD (De Graves
Street, Melbourne).
"&3EP?
l
BW
G.P.O. Box 71.
DISTRIBUTORS:
Melbourne: Acme Cycle Co.
Sydney: Williams, Dredge and
Hnydon, Ltd.
Brisbane: J. H. Cowley & Co.,
Ltd.
Perth: Atkins (W.A.), Ltd.
New Zealand—
Adams, Ltd.
Hope Gibbons, Ltd.
E. Reynolds & Co., Ltd.
BAYLISS, WILEY
AND CO., LTD.,
Birmingham,
England.
fs
Cheaper
Quicker
Cooking
We also stock all Elec*
trical accessories—■
Lamps, Shades, Primu9
Stoves, etc., etc.
Let us quote you on
wholesale delivery.
df
With Focussed Heat from a
FLORENCE
OIL STOVE
It operates on Kerosene —for
simplicity and safety it cannot be
surpassed. The FOCUSSED heat
system adds to its efficiency and
economy, makes the Florence the
most suitable stove for modern
homes.
No wicks to worry over —no
intricate mechanism to cause
danger—simple and cool to use
—the Florence is a model of
sturdiness and beautiful finish—
non-odorous. Keeps the kitchen
clean and cool—no smoking of
roof or walls.
Models to suit all needs are available. Ask your storekeeper to show them
to you. If he does not stock them write us for full particulars, or call and
allow us to demonstrate FLORENCE economy, safety, reliability.
BRANDTS Lm
"EVERYTHING FOB LIGHT AND HEAT,"
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: M 4651, MAI 002.
Queensland Agents: J. T. Greenlees & Co., Ann Street, Brisbane. Michelmore & Co., Maekay.
Armstrong, Ledlie & Stillman, Cairns. Samuel Allen & Sons, Townsville.
SUNSHINE
CULTIVATING
AND SEEDING
MACHINERY
V
5n
THE “SUNDERCUT” STUMP JUMP
DISC CULTIVATING PLOUGH
10-disc cuts 5 feet.
14-disc cuts 7 feet.
Unequalled for cultivating hard set fallow,
or fallow covered by heavy weed growth,
paddy-melon, stinkwort, thistles, etc.
Does splendid work in virgin Mallee soils.
Levers fitted for team or tractor pull.
sssm
/
m
I i
m
mm
THE “SUNTYNE” COMBINED GRAIN
AND FERTILIZER DRILL AND
SPRING TYNE CULTIVATOR.
17 tyne, sows 8 rows, covering 5 ft.
25 tyne, sows 12 rows, covering ft.
29 tyne, sows 14 rows, covering ft.
33 tyne, sows 16 rows, covering 9? ft.
41 tyne, sows 20 rows, covering 12ft.
49 tyne, sows 24 rows, covering 14ft.
Cultivates and sows to any desired depth.
Forms a compact seed bed with thoroughly
pulverised mulch. Tractor Hitch and
Lever can be fitted when ordered.
Write for descriptive literature, prices
and particulars of extended terms.
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD
Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine.
Branches and Agencies:
664 BOURKE STREET WEST, MELBOURNE.
95-97 NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE.
27-39 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY.
Corner MURRAY AND KING STREETS, PERTH.
H V McKAY (QUEENSLAND), LTD., STANLEY STREET, SOUTH


sd
NAMES are destinctive,
(ye? neat —» fadeless and durable)
Actual Sue:
Style No. 6
fsd
Prices ; 1 2 doz. 7/6, 6 do*. 5/-, 3 do*. 3/6
SOLD BV LEADING DRAPERS..
Write for Name Style Circular t<s
J. f>,J. CASH Pty. Ltd.
85 CubitiSt.,Richmond, Melbourne
CASHS NAMES
(c isfts)
WASHING
RIBBONS
AS NEW
AFTER
REPEATED
WASHING"
SOLD BY
LEADING
DRAPERS
JicttttcttUllt t
* shoe .Store* Ct<l,
A popular new two-
ho 1 e tie design,
featured in grey kid
with blue kid trims,
Havana brown with
parchment kid trims,
fawn glace with
genuine lizard trims
to tone, black
produced lizard
skin. 39/6.
fs
Write for Catalogue X
FOR LADIES AND CHILDREN
189 PITT ST 22 STRAND 105 KING ST
THE
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper . published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know’. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co*,
214 Georae Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Several emporiums held displays or man-
nequin parades of the earliest autumn
fashions last week. The quicksilver was
bubbling in the thermometers, but the lure
of clothes is irresistible, and there was a
rush for the front chairs. There were cloth
wrap-over coats with great storm collars and
elbow-deep cuffs of beaver, squirrel and other
expensive furs. A few sports suits in fancy
woollen materials were shown, but evening
gowns predominated. One firm is giving
special prominence to robes of black velvet
with wraps to match, several of which out-
fits were exhibited, the gowns being orna-
mented with crystal beads and rhinestones.
The peacock dip appears this season in a
new form. Instead of being cut as part of
the skirt it is an attached fan-shaped piece
of material spreading from a bow at the
back of the waist-line. The craze for
dangling bits at the hips is likely to be
stimulated, for among the exhibits were a
number of sheath-like dresses of lace with
frill topped loose panels that depended in
points towards the ankles. Outstanding
features of the new models are a more
shapely display of figure and a greater
length of skirt for evening wear.
Favored by ideal weather and the prospect
of a gallant duel between Mollison and
Gothic, Saturday’s gathering at Caulfield
was large. Mollison, his owner and jockey,
are a popular trio, and they were given
the sort of reception usually reserved for a
Melbourne Cup winner. Mrs. E. M. Pearce,
who looked charming in grey nmon and lace
with a blue hat, was overwhelmed with con-
gratulations. With her was her daughter,
Mrs. Norman Stafford, whose blue gown was
embroidered in pink rosebuds. Mrs. James
Grice, also in the committee ladies’ box, had
with her Mrs. Claude Grice and Kitty Currie,
the latter wearing a cocoa and pink striped
straw hat with a pink jumper suit. A daisy-
patterned silk frock in navy and white was
the choice of Mrs. Ken Syme. Though the
breeze was cool it was quite warm enough
for even filmy covering. A rather unique
turnout was a blouse of white georgette
allied to a black crepe-de-Chine skirt, kept
in position by a nunfber of brilliant buckles.
Another frock that attracted attention was
of chiffon, of enamel green tone, made up
of layers of flat frills. Marie Tait looked
very smart in a crepe-de-Chine one-piece
frock that was fashioned with a small cape
lined with fawn and topped by a felt hat
of aviation mode. Mrs. Albion Walkely was
saying good-bye to her friends prior to a
voyage abroad. Mrs. P. H. Lock exhibited
an ensemble effect in biscuit-colored lace and
georgette, with harmonising fur and felt hat.
Mrs. Richard Linton, Mrs. Heffernan and
Mrs. Russell Gabb, the last-named a study
in rose-red, were other patrons.
The Yarra Yarra Golf Club, which started
life as the Eaglemont, has entered into pos-
session of its new links at Bentleigh which
cover 107 acres. In 1911 the club estab-
lished links at Rosanna, but it did not take
long to discover that the clay soil there isn’t
the sort of stuff golf thrives on. Bentleigh
soil is light and sandy. President H. G.
Mcßoberts and his wife spread the tea-
cloths for the opening on Saturday, when
members and visitors mingled in foursomes.
The club house is a cheerful-looking struc-
ture in the Spanish style, set amid green
slopes. Blue and yellow striped awnings
shade the windows, and there are wide bal-
conies and a roof garden. The large dining-
hall, with its buff-colored walls and frieze
of small red tiles, has a musicians’ gallery
and a polished wood floor, and will provide
a good setting for club dances. Tapestry
in tones of dull blue, red and amber uphol-
sters the furniture of the lounges, and elec-
tric candles in quaint wrought-iron sconces
supply illumination.
Lady Somers, wearing a lightly-patterned
chiffon frock and beige-colored hat, made a
bright little speech when opening the fete
held at the George Russells’ home, Toorak,
on Saturday. The Lady Forster Free Kinder-
garten was the beneficiary. Scattered
through the picturesque grounds, with their
sun-dial and fountain and terraced lawns,
were marquees and stalls. The side-shows
included a mannequin parade' of autumn
fashions. Mayor and Mayoress Luxton were
patrons, and Mrs. Sam McKay president,
and Mrs. F. Derham, lion. sec. of the kin-
dergarten, proved their mettle as saleswomen.
To take an interest in sport last week
required almost superhuman energy and en-
thusiasm, and the Moonee Valley races
didn’t attract a great deal of feminine pat-
ronage. It was too demued hot and moist
and unpleasant, as Mr. Mantalini would have
said. Among those who languidly strolled
about the lawn were Mrs. Horace Munro,
looking cool in a pale green frock and sun-
burnt straw hat; Mrs. A. F. Showers, Ali-
son Madden, Mrs. A. V. Hiskens and Lorna,
and the Ben Chaffeys.
This Page has a sisterly interest in the
State Theatre, for a little over a year ago
The Bulletin was housed in the structure
now transformed into the semblance of a
Moorish mosque. The interior is an exact
replica of that of the Capitol Theatre in
Sydney, representing a star-lit garden around
a Venetian palace, with statuary doves and
blossoms. Gorgeous banners, tapestries and
plaques hang upon the walls, and rare china
and glass and antique furniture adorn dress-
ing-rooms and foyer. There is a fine orches-
tra, which is augmented on occasion. Down
hi the orchestra well the instrumentalists
wear coats of powder-blue velvet, and when
they take the stage, as they frequently do,
they don surtouts of orange, faced witli
black.
The clock was ticking beneath the bronze-
hued dome, and the finishing touches were
being applied to the ornate outside, as the
early-door crowd lined up beneath the scaf-
foldings for the opening performance on
Saturday morning. There was no opening
ceremony, but at the evening session Mayor
and Mayoress Luxtbn snd sundry Government
officials were guests of the management.
Margot Best, the theatre’s hostess, in a
gown of gold tissue lam 6, splashed with pink
peonies, smiled a welcome to the specially
invited.
Margot, daughter of Robert Best and his
lady, has secured the coveted job of hostess
(whatever duties that may involve) at the new
State Theatre, for which 200 young women
sent in applications. Miss Best is a good-
looking girl, who recently enjoyed an exten-
sive tour abroad, in the course of which she
made her curtsey to Royalty. Her pretty
fair-haired sister Phyllis, who appeared on
the stage here, is now pursuing her theatrical
career in England.
The wedding of Fred Agar’s eldest daugh-
ter Betty and Malcolm Kenneth McKenzie,
of Pyramid Hill, took place on Saturday.
The bride, popular among the younger
set of Malvern, was arrayed in lace
over pale pink which was the same
shade as her felt millinery. Her three maids,
whose frocks were a blend of pastel green
and mauve, modelled on the latest bustle
style, crowned the confections with mauve
felt hats, and carried posies.
Kathleen Roclifort, a slim pretty singer
of decided ability, who had a season of con-
cert appearances here and a term with the
Gilbert and Sullivan co., will in future lift
her voice in Perth. The other day she was
married in Melbourne to F. O. Strickland,
who is settled in the Westralian capital.
Lord and Lady Somers went to Fern Tree
Gully to declare open a look-out on One
Tree Hill, which commands a wonderful
view. From the summit of the tall steel
structure, with its 60 steps, the glory of
Melbourne’s hills and valleys is well worth
seeing.
The dark-eyed maid is Vera Kingdon, an
ex-student of the P.L.C., who has hopes of
making her
name as a
painter. Ac-
companied by
her mother she
is off to Lon-
don this month
for three years’
study at the
Slade School.
She has been
a pupil of
C atherine
Harden n, a
g radu ate of
the famous
English School.
Before settl-
ing down to
work Miss
Kingdon, who
js pictured
here by Lafay-
ette, will have
a couple of
months’ holiday on the Riviera.
Melbourne has been sampling a new brand
of heat this season. Up to the time of
wi’iting the usual hot northern breeze had
not put in an appearance. Instead, humidity
lias been high, and the moist heat has made
beaches near the city very popular. Enjoy-
ment of the sea by bathers, however, is
tempered at some resorts by the activities of
speed-boat drivers who persist in invading
the swimmers’ territory. . There have been
many complaints, and the need for by-laws
conserving the rights of bathers becomes
pressing.
Alembers of Genezzano Old Girls’ Associa-
tion gathered at Menzies’ over teacups to
speed their president, Airs. J. Alaguire—
better known as Dr. Elizabeth O'Keefe —on
a holiday jaunt through Europe. Alary
AA’inter, wearing a pale yellow frock and
blending millinery, handed over to the guest
of honor a fitted travelling-bag, accompanied
by hosts of good wishes.
Official Canberra has given many parties
in honor of Grace Ilendy Pooley, who has
retired after 20 years of public service. She
was first associated with the publication of
historical records, but in 1917 joined the
staff of the Commonwealth Library, and Air.
Binns, the librarian, and other members of
the staff made her a presentation. The
Sports Association had nice things to say
about her, and said them through president
li. A. Broinowski. She intends to make her
home in Sydney.
Beneath the large black hat is Airs. George
Russell, whose husband is chairman of direc-
tors of Toorak
College,
F r a n k s t on,
now our most
up - to - date
seminary. Airs.
Russell h a s
lately caught
the public eye
by lending
her home for a
fete to aid her
pet charity,
the Lady
Forster Free
Kindergarte n
at Port Mel-
bourne, of
whose com-
mittee she :s
a vice - presi-
dent. Last
week the lady
offered to
assist in the
refurnishing of the Janet Clarke Hall of
the Uni. by putting her ballroom at the
organisers’ disposal for a hop to raise the
necessary cash to bring the old Trinity
Hostel into line with the lately completed
additions. The picture was specially taken
by Broothorn.
A return tripper says that there is a wide
difference between the modes as seen in
Paris and London. The Parisian frock is
fiouned and bunched into a camel-like hump
behind, but the Englishwoman preserves the
straight line in her many pleats. Only in
color are the two capitals in unison. The
traveller was wearing a smart costume of
grey, with scarlet vest and wine-hued pipings.
It sounds like a parrot’s furnishings, but she
said it was considered rather quiet. Sad to
say, the tinsel-brocaded coats for which so
many of us paid just a little more than we
could really afford belong to yesterday; ring
velvet is now the only material permissible.
“The Marionettes,” Margaret Banner-
man’s swan-song which had its premidre
on Saturday, gives the leading lady an
opportunity to wear some gorgeous clothes.
In the first act she’s in the chrysalis stage
and wears a plain brown frock. Then she
steps forth in a cloak of blue ostrich
plumes which covers a gown of lustrous
pale blue-green satin, fashioned with a hip-
yoke from which the skirt falls in a grace-
ful line. A Chinese-looking head-dress
with fringed earrings tops this splendor.
A sheath of gold brocade partly veiled in
white chiffon is another effective bit of
dressing. Yolande Noble, a newcomer, also
plays a prominent part in the stage dress
parade. Bunches of pink roses straying
over lettuce-colored georgette, with a fur-
collared cape and a small green felt hat,
adorn her on her first entrance. Later she
wears a trained evening gown of lemon tone
with interludes of enamel green. Miss
Bannerman, surrounded by tall formations
of flowers, somewhat nervously thanked the
dear Melbourne people. Kniglit-of-the-
brusli Longstaff. Purves, all in
white, Mrs. P. Glass, with a crinkled white
fur collar upon a gold lame coat, and Mrs.
11. 11. Smith were among the first-nighters.
Muriel Starr, just back from her Maoriland
tour, received a cheery greeting from the
gods.
Though put on by amateurs—the Art
Theatre Players—in the restricted space of
the Queen’s Hall, Noel Coward’s “The
Rat Trap” was a refreshing contrast to
some of the professional fare offered here
of late. Beresford Fowler has a happy
knack of digging out feminine talent. In
Joan AVisdom, Marjorie Derum and Florence
Cheers he introduced a clever trio in the
Coward piece, and Mollie Locke of the
auburn tresses was sparkling as a cockney
actress. The girls dressed their roles well.
Miss Wisdom's fresh looks were set off by a
confection of black lace and taffeta; and
in another scene by a crimson pull-over
jumper worn with a black skirt. Miss Locke
wore black lace and an ermine stole, topped
by vivid millinery.
Temporary dwellers in the hills and at the
seaside have returned to the city, for the
boys and girls must go back to school. Their
parents are beginning to pick up dropped
threads of all sorts. Means to raise funds
for the refurnishing of the Janet Clarke
Hall were discussed at a getting-together
at the Lyceum Club the other afternoon,
when jazz in the ballroom of Mrs. George
Russell’s Toorak home on April 5 was
planned. Molly Leeper has taken on the
duties of hon. sec., and pretty Pat Lempriere
will lend aid as hon. ticket sec. The Alauds-
ley lady w T ill head the organising committee.
Over the teacups at the Wattle, at the
bidding of Mrs. J. S. Oliver, farewells were
said to Mrs. AV. P. Swanson, who with her
husband is sailing- this week for a tour of
U.S.A. and Britain. Nan Swanson, daughter
of the late John Swanson, will accompany
them.
Reporters are looked upon acidly nowa-
days by a leading Melbourne lawyer, lately
back from an oversea tour with his wife. When
the usual Customs declarations were called
for, his word was taken that the pair’s
luggage contained no rich and rare purchases.
The lady was unpacking when a scribe
arrived to question her regarding her travels.
Next day, scanning the news, the legal light
went hot and cold as he read of a "priceless
work of art” and some “magnificent antique
glass” which his wife was credited with
having brought home with her. Inquiry
showed that ihe basis of this glowing piece
of descriptive writing was a plaster plaque
that cost a shilling and a few little vases
picked up in a “no-article-dearer-than-half-
a-crown” store in London. A hurried tele-
phone message to the Customs House to
explain elicited that the matter had already
been noted, and an officer was- on his way to
investigate. All doubts were speedily cleared
and the legal one was able to breathe freely.
Rut he has lost his faith in newspapers.
Scenic-artist Coleman has given the Flin-
ders naval depot a taste of his quality as a
painter, and has displayed an unsuspected
knowledge of naval technique. Two of his
pictures, of goodly dimension, are hung in
the ward-room, the subjects being “The
Defeat of the Armada” and “The Landing
of Captain Cook.” Officers who have worked
over the canvases with microscopes to dis-
cover the errors they reckoned a land lubber
would be sure to make are wondering where
the artist picked up all his information
regarding bygone sailing-ships. The ward-
room is proud of its new decorations.
G. R. Nicholas, of the Aspro firm, has
provided ornamental iron gates at a cost of
£3OO for the main entrance to Mont Park
hospital for the insane, lie has also given
liberally to the Methodist Girls’ School at
Kew and to other educational establishments.
Mont Park has, in Hugh Linaker, one of the
best landscape gardeners in Australia and
the fine grounds lie has laid out will now
have a worthy gateway.
Madeline Murray, who has just retired
from the position of senior woman inspector
,of Child Welfare, was a pioneer among
Australian business women. Her entrance
into the Public Service 39 years ago formed
a precedent, Alfred Deakin was then in office,
and gave her a job in the Chief Secretary’s
office ; she became confidential clerk, and later
passed on to the Lands Department. For
the last 21 years her time and talents have
been devoted to the welfare of children, and
she did not limit her interest to office routine.
Now she is going to enjoy her well-earned
freedom by visiting Britain and the U.S.A.
Many organisations were represented at a
gathering engineered by Mrs. Alfred Deakin
at the Lyceum Club last week to do honor
to Miss Murray, and wish her a pleasant
trip.
Heat and moisture in this city last week
were so exceptional that in the operating
theatre of one of the big hospitals a nurse
was specially detailed to wipe the perspira-
tion from the surgeon’s brow, lest it should
get into his eyes or fall on the instruments
or the patient.
The Firm has chosen Lilian Crisp, a West-
ralian, to star in the second “Desert Song”
co., which is now making ready to tour
the Speck. Aliss Crisp, who came to Mel-
bourne to pursue her vocal studies at the
Albert-street Con., made her professional
debut as a member of the last Gilbert and
Sullivan Co. During the grand opera season
the young singer made a good impression in
Fritz Hart’s short opera “Deirdre,” having
previously appeared in the first performance
of the work by the students of the Con.
After an absence of five or more years
Mrs. A. Nuttall and her daughter have re-
turned and settled in Koornie, East Mel-
bourne. AVhile in England Mrs. Nuttall gave
her services to the committee which inaugu-
rated and ran the Market-Harborough train-
ing-school for domestic-service girls who
intended to migrate to the Dominions.
The death of the Jenkins lady in Colombo
recalls that she went there 18 years ago
with her husband, who had just retired from
the job of Clerk of the ATe. Parliaments.
He had only drawn superannuation for a
few months when an illness carried him off.


FINE QUALITY
No. 306 —£23
\
ff B
57b
577
■> i'v-
v -
No. 30S —£55
No. 309-£3O
No. 300—£20
No. 307 —£65
No. 305—£40
No. 304 —£25
No. 303—£45
The Diamond Rings illustrated above
represent the finest value offered in
Australia. All the diamonds are set in
pure platinum by Drummond's ring
experts. Money will be refunded if
not approved of. Illustrated Ring, Cata-
logue sent post free to any address.
WM.DRUMMOND 6 CO.
DIAMOND AND PEARL - SPECIALISTS~
344-346 COLLINS STREET
MELBOURNE r --^
wm
-<S
processes
Rfcp
r '*N
s®
JUST PUBLISHED.
New Revised and Enlarged Edition of
The Greatest Book Ever Offered
to the Public!
HENLEY’S TWENTIETH - CENTURY
BOOK OF SECRET
RECIPES, FORMULAS
and PROCESSES
Contains over 10 000 practical processes, recipes and formulas, especially prepared
for daily use m the home and place of business; it includes thousands of heretofore
unpublished secret methods needed every day in the city home, as well as on
the farm, in the workshop and factory. The book is in one large volume is
beautirully printed in large, clear type.
10,000
Trade Secrets
Practical Recipes
Chemical Processes
Scientific Formulas
HUSBANDS —Gilt-Edged and Otherwise.
HOW TO MAKE EVERYTHING
For the Home, the Factory and Workshop.
Antiseptics, Waterproofing, Lubricants, Rust Preventives, Dyes, Filters Cleaning
I reparations, Enamelling, Beverages, Inks, Adhesives, Polishes, Disinfectants
hlayerings, Cosmetics, Ceramics, etc., etc.; how to make fly-paper; to color flowers
artificially; to estimate weight of ice by measurement; to make materials fireproof-
to work with metals—aluminium, brass, etc.; to make anything and everything
from A to Z.
THIS IS THE BOOK
Everyone who seeks PRACTICAL ACCURATE KNOWLEDGE
and guidance in his everyday work MUST HAVE at his command.
It is'a money-maker and a money-saver; it appeals to the young as well as to the
old. Great business enterprises owe their success to the manufacture or sale of
simple inventions or compounds, usually the result of an experiment at home.
Profit by the knowledge that has made others successful. GET THIS BOOK
TO-DAY. Everybody should have a copy for ready reference.
Price 20/-; Postage 1/- extra.
Every Manufacturer—Workshop—Factory
—Laboratory—Office and Home Worker
will find priceless formulas in this wonderful book —formulas which men have
spent a lifetime of toil to perfect. Nothing like it has ever been offered before.
Every formula can be depended upon. It is a priceless book of information which
everyone should possess. One formula alone will more than pay you for the
expense of the whole book. It tells many trade secrets which hitherto have
been impossible to obtain.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
The Best House for Technical Books,
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Mrs. Plutocratic Miggs has never left
off smirking,
Bulging with enormous pearls, she
watches Alfred working,
Once men catch the Dancing Craze
'tis virulent as rabies—
Bless his heart —it keeps him young
to prance with Sugar Babies!
ex
at
WVUa
THE DANCING HUSBAND.
Alfred spurns his snow-white Past
of virtuous endeavour;
In a whirl of gay balloons who would
not flirt for ever ?
Yet he shuffles back at last from
music, youth and colour—•
Mrs. Miggs, the wise Old Girl, sits
smiling—with ABDULLA.
—F. R. Holmes.
SUPERB CIGARETTES
VIRGINIA
TURKISH
EGYPTIAN


L'nder
Royal
Warrant
df
ToH.NL
George V
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
ries ei
illM!
Australasian Agfsnt3
Swift & Company Limltad
SYDNEY.
Champagne
Qjarksllddsiea^
Reims
y.
PELLISSON
Cognac Crandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Asrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
sd
THE exotic decora •
tions make the Ball-
room and Palm Court
ideal for the formal or
the intimately informal
gathering.
Luncheon a la carte
daily.
Afternoon Tea .. 3/6
Saturday 4/-
Monday Afternoon
reserved for Bridge.
! I
'J"HE Egyptian Ballet
showing every
afternoon and Saturday
evening. Come and
hear Tutankhamen’s
favorite band.
Satur day Evenings:
Dinner 157-
Supper 10/6
Other Evenings the
Ballroom may be
privately engaged.
RING
BW 13 6 1.
FOR
RESERVATION
7hp cen/np of Queens /onc/s
Owi gf/s/tngu/shGc/ Soc/o/ Life.
W>oU\
BRISBANE
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Line*.
c
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayser
SILK
GLOVES
The ritual and pomp that should have
surrounded the unveiling of the Cenotaph
last week were missing. It was a shabby
affair. Martin-place should have been a
forest of bunting spreading and straining
to the speckless blue sky. Priests and dig-
nitaries in their robes and flashing their
symbols should have swept down a lane of
laurel wreaths to their dais; choirs should
have tossed the triumph of the soldier-dead
through the soaring terraces of air. Khaki
should have caught the light at every angle,
and each man and woman and child might
have brought even one flower to heap about
the granite base. The only inspiring moment
was provided when a company of ex-Diggers
swung down Martin-place with bayonets
glinting and regimental colors glowing.
Even the spoken word was not one to
make the day glorious, let alone immortal.
Through ugly loud-speakers bunched under
the cluster-lights of Martin-place came
mumbling the Dedication by Dean Talbot.
More clearly flew the words of Premier
Bavin and John Monash. But even they
were uninspired.
Meantime the trams of Pitt and George
streets clanged and banged about their
affairs, and the Niagara of traffic raced down
its usual channels. The people, Heaven
bless them ! came and stood meekly in their
thousands, like the multitude who waited
for the angel to stir the waters. But there
was no one here with the tongue of angels to
stir the waters of memory, of thankfulness,
of appreciation. Perhaps the older ones, the
mothers and fathers, do not need the waters
stirred; but to the young of to-day who are
beginning to think the older generation a set
of fools for making the war with its messy
post-war conditions, there was nothing at the
unveiling of the Cenotaph to convince that
a man’s country considered it great and
glorious to lay down his life in its 1 defence
Sydney is losing tli e bluest-blooded Con-
sul-General Japan has ever sent us—Prince
Tokugawa, who is related to the Royal house.
Among farewell parties was last week's
Legacy Club lunch. Tokugawa is a great
linguist and a fine scholar, and while in
Sydney has surrounded his position with a
luxuriously-appointed Point Piper home. He
will be in attendance on the Duke of Glouces-
ter while that Prince is in Japan, and after
that —who knows? It may even be the Court
of St. James.
Still another woman’s club for Sydney.
This time it is one that even grandfathers
would approve. Its objects are to teach
business girls the arts of homemaking, in-
cluding wifehood and motherhood. It sounds
like a mid-Victorian revival in this Marie
Stopes, companionate marriage and canned-
soup era. However, that live spark, Portia
Geacli, who is in these matters Sydney’s
day-after-to-morrow, has much to do with
it, and so has Mrs. Duncan. These are the
corner-stones of the Housewives’ Progressive
Association, and the club should prove a
boon to the about-to-be-married business girl
who has not had the time between leaving
school and taking up office work to learn
how to run a home.
The second conference of music-teachers
organised by the Musical Association of N. S.
Wales will open on April 2. Its lectures,
concerts and entertainments are fitted into
the Easter holiday week, when music-teachers
are free to bathe in a sea of crochets,
quavers, counterpoint and, it is hoped, har-
mony. There will be an informal reception
at the opening of the conference, when
Premier Bavin and president of the Musical
Association Faunce Allman will make wel-
come the conferrers, and there’s to be at least
one at-home, which vice-regals will grace
with their presence; the University has
arranged a Carillon recital, the Phil, is stag-
ing a choral concert, and the Con. Orchestra
will take part in the Erica Morini concert
at the Town Hall on the sixth.
The cat and the dog and the worn-out
gee-gee are beginning to be as complacent as
the animals in the Zoo. For their season
is at hand. On March 2 the Be Kind to
Animals Week starts and then the faithful
foxy and weary Dobbin know that man will
look after their wants as kindly as he does
those of the roaring lion and the ravening
tiger. Affairs will open at the Horses’ Home,
Little Bay. with a gymkhana 27 events long,
and the Fire Brigades’ band will cool the
intervals between the heats with soothing
music. The official opening will not take
place till the following Monday, when animal-
lovers. old and young, are invited to invade
David Jones’s auditorium to clap the exhor-
tations.
Gladys Price and Dr. Keith Barry having
confided to Padre Sam Johnstone, of St.
John’s, Parramatta, their decision to execute
Life’s symphony in a flat, that reverend
gentleman made them one at St. Stephen’s,
in Phillip-street, last week. Gladys is the
youngest daughter of the W. A. Prices, of
Centennial Park; the mother was Bessie
Fraser, the Scots singer, while Keith, be-
sides being a doctor of medicine, is a great
gun at the organ and a very able musical
critic. So there were enough musicians at
the wedding to stock the city with orchestras.
Best man was Dr. Stuart Marshall, super -
intendent of the Royal North Shore hos-
pital—a noted performer on the bones —while
Frank Hutchens, of the Gonservatorium staff,
everybody’s friend, was toast-master. Another
notable was Lindley Evans, Melba’s pet
accompanist, who twined himself with great
effect about the organ. The bride stepped
in a picture frock of macramc lace, her
neck rising very slim and white from the
low round shoulder-line. The frock crc-
scendoed to a clinging liip-bow of taffeta, .
whose long ends fell to the hem of. the skirt,
dying away (as it were) in a diminuendo
of silver, like faint moonlight. Limerick
lace mounted on a surging wave of white
tulle veiled her blushes. Bride’s sister Mabel
’maided in pink taffetas. Later the bride’s
mother, in Chanel blue transparent velvet,
bade the guests welcome to the Waldorf.
America’s Consul-General Lawtons were
among them, and Padre Hugh Patou,
Gordon Craig's lady, writer Jean Curlewis
and her husband, Dr. Charlton. The Apple
Isle for the honeymoon.
There were touches of pink and embroid-
eries of diamente on the white satin frock
which Marjorie Barnes, elder daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. A. E. Barnes, of Mosman,
wore for her wedding with Ralph, only son
of Justice Piddington and Mrs. Piddington
on Saturday night at St. Philip’s. Dean
Talbot officiated. Up an aisle lined with
lilies walked the pretty bride, who was given
away by her father, her cut tulle veil held
in place by a circlet of orange blossoms, bil-
lowing into a foam of train. Her bouquet, a
gorgeous affair, had for its centre a beautiful
lilium auratum. This was surrounded by
orchids and stephanotis and maidenhair, the
whole guarded by an ostrich fringe, frpm
which fell streamers of tulle and trails of
begonias and frangipanni. Ninon Mac Knight,
in pale pink georgettes, and Hope Barnes, in
a deeper shade, attended the bride. Both
frocks showed flares and wore the uneven
hemline. Pale pink summer felt hats and
posies of pink carnations, green croton-lilies
and mignonette completed their outfits. The
best man was Charles Hart and the grooms-
man Robert Drew. Later Mrs. Barnes, wear-
ing a wine georgette frock with hat to tone,
and carrying a sheaf of gladioli and fuchsias,
received the guests in the Blue Room of the
Wentworth. Here Mrs. Piddington’s black
georgettes and black and gold lame coat
provided an effective background for her
posy of gold rosebuds and orchids.
Lieut.-Governor Hubert Murray’s wife
died at Beecroft on Sunday. She was one
of the daugh-
ters of I)r.
,T e n k ins, an
early squat
ting medico;
Hubert, then
P a r 1 i amen-
tary drafts-
man, took her
to Dr. Fortes-
cue’s lovely
old home at
Chiswick after
they were mar-
r i e d and
that’s just
about 40 years
ago. She spent
a few odd
years with her
d i stinguislied
husban d at
Port Moresby:
but during
most of Sir
Hubert’s lons reign in Papua Party Murray
has been tending to her family s needs first
in Europe (she lived for some time in Swit-
zerland) and for the past few years in Syd-
ney. With this regretful paragraph this
Letter prints May Moore’s last portrait of
the amiable and accomplished lady.
Sabina Spira, of Melbourne, was one of
the Synagogue's very pretty brides. Her
groom was Herbert Diamond, of Bondi, and
Rabbi Cohen, with assistance, tied the knot.
The wedding garment had spreading skirts
of white tulle that billowed from a tight
satin bodice, and it had long mitten sleeves
of Chantilly lace. A tulle veil like a moun-
tain mist and an armlet of salamander
carnations and frangipanni were decorative
bits of still-life in the picture. Mrs. Lewis
Diamond, in apricot chiffons, the peacock
skirt of which was weighted with appliques
of gold leaves, and Dorothy Dawkins, in
ethereal pinks and silvers, followed the bride.
The Ambassadors staged the feast.
One of the happiest parties of last week
was staged by the Alec Campbells, of Gunne-
dah; surrounded by their 11 children and
many grand- and great-grandchildren, they
celebrated their “diamond wedding.” To the
party came Mrs. S. Williams, Mrs. Camp-
hell’s elder sister, and a piper, who of course
included “The Campbells are Coming” in
his programme. A wedding-cake, lit by GO
candles, struck the high note in the table
decorations.
At her “golden wedding” a week ago at
riaberfield Mrs. James O'Sullivan put on
her wedding gown, an affair of grey silk,
much kilted and gathered and tied up bustle
stylo in the fashion of J5O years ago, and it
fitted very well. Mr. O’Sullivan is the only
remaining brother of the late E.W., of poli-
tical note; Mrs. O’Sulliyan hails from Cas-
terton (Vic.), and there Adam Lindsay
Gordon worked among her father’s horses.
Australia’s first Papal Countess greets
you. She is Mrs. Freehill, of Carmona,
Point Piper.
The honor has
been bestowed
by the Pope in
recognition of
a lifetime of
generosity to
the R. C.
Church and its
institutions in
Australia,
crowned by her
hospitality to
Cardinal Cor-
retti during
the Eucharis-
tic Congress.
This Letter
wond e r s if
Sydney will be
as proud of
Mrs. Frechill’s
title as New
York is of its
Papal Coun-
tess Leary. This lady., through whose bounty
the sonorous Gregorian music was made pos-
sih’e in the churches of America, was always
addressed as Countess. Mrs. Freehill is the
widow of a former well-known and cultured
lawyer who was an early business associate
of J. P. Garvan, founder of the immensely
prosperous Citizens’ (now Mutual Life ami
Citizens’) insurance office, and was its soli-
citor until his lamented death. May Moore
made the picture for us.
Jean Mackenzie, daughter of the Colin
Mackenzies, of Glenburnie, Burren Junction,
is flying the stand-off signal in favor of Dr.
Arthur Wareham Main, of Burren Junction.
Mrs. David Hay died last week and was
buried in the beautiful private graveyard
of the Coolangatta estate, near Berry. She
had lived at The Cottage—an annexe of
the homestead built a century ago by Alex-
ander Berry—for over a quarter of a century,
and was greatly loved in the neighborhood.
An extremely clever and charming old lady,
she provided in her own person a striking
example of the persistence of Scotland’s cul-
ture. She is survived by one son—Major
Alex. Hay, of Coolangatta, formerly M.P.
foy New England—and six daughters.
Another daughter, Mrs. Philip Morton, died
a few years ago.
C. G. (“Johnnie”) Hodgson slipped into
the jaws of Death last week, after a life-
time devoted to the care of the teeth of three
or four generations of Sydney. He was
one of the first three dentists to hang a
plate in Macquarie-street; and to the day
of his death he retained that meticulous care
of his appearance that had earned for him
in the long ago the name of “Johnnie.”
“Johnnie” always wore a pliable gold brace-
let—did so on his arrival from London, where
his father was Commissioner of Police. He
was a member of that famous old club of
dashing cricketers, the Zingaris.
A cheery lady is Earle Page’s mother,
just returned from a long visit to Nukua-
lofa, the Tongan capital, where her son
Roger has been 20 years in charge of the
Methodist mission. The Page family were
all educated in Grafton, but the eight boys
and three girls have been scattered, which
means a busy visiting programme for mother.
She is now with her daughter, Mrs. Hed-
bury, at Wollongong. The man of the
house is school-teacher there, and, inciden-
tally, is looking to the education of the
missionary’s son.
Alderman R. Gibson and Mrs. Gibson,
of Newcastle, are home again. Mrs.
Gibson is the lady who was so seriously
hurt about the eyes and nose when motoring
on the outskirts of Colombo with a party of
Australians* all Europe-bound. They had
the misfortune to come upon a group of
stone-throwing native rioters. Mrs. Gibson
has made a fine recovery, with the help of
plastic surgery.
Valerie Lazarus is the first winner of the
Philip Muskett prize for landscape. This is
the first year of the competition which was
founded by Alice J. Muskett in memory of
her brother, the late doctor; it will be
awarded in February each year to a student
of Sydney Art School. That master of free
light and fresh air Elioth Gruner was judge
this year.
Dr. Joe Foreman, who came from Cooma
last week to attend a medical conference,
ended up in St. Luke’s Hospital, where h
still is. Something had gone wrong with
his vocal cords. Mrs. Foreman, who was
for so long matron and part-proprietor of
Clarmore, and famed as one of the best
operating-theatre sisters in Australia, has
arrived in town to soften his pillow.
Two of Mrs. Richard Norrie’s daughters,
Lil and Irene, returned last week by the
French liner from a 12-months’ tour of
Europe, a tour which embraced the Levantine
ports as far as Constantinople, Spain,
France and the British Isles on one side
of the map. and on the other the tropical
settings of Martinique, Panama, Fiji, Tahiti
and Noumea. And they have come to find
Sydney sweltering in the same brand of
heat. The Norrie family is more or loss
always on the move, and this is the sisters'
third tour abroad.
Dr. J. E. F. Dealciiv, whose brass plates
shine in Maequa pie-street and Mosman,
left last week with his good-looking spouse
for a European tour, which will include a
look over foreign hospitals.
Gertrude Barton, brilliant musician and
scholar, intends to put some of her ideas on
the subject of the higher education of girls
into practice. She has founded a finishing
school for girls, and, in the presence of
educational Sydney, the school was opened
by Dr. Arundel Orchard, Director of the
State Con. Dilbhur Hall, until lately the
home of Justice Owen, has been secured as
the dwelling of the college, whose full course
will cover a period of three years. Psycho-
logy, dramatic art, racial hygiene, musical
appreciation, cookery, interior decoration and
archery are a few of the varied subjects in
the curriculum.
Coaly Newcastle, which hasn’t much to be
joyful about these days, is interested in
“The Patsy.” Elina Gibbs, who went on in
Irene Homer’s place for over a week, is a
Newcastle girl who with sister Aphra first
sparkled in local operatic society’s produc-
tions. Aphra chose a husband, Elma the
stage. Eileen Sparks, of the same co., comes
from the Hunter, too.
The French Alliance is having great fun
over the rehearsals of Moliere’s farce “Le
Bourgeois Gentilhomme,” which will be the
star turn on the programme at the Ambassa-
dors on April 2G. The Circle’s first reunion
of 1929 will happen on that date, and is to
take the form of a supper dance, preceded
by the comedy—still sparkling after nearly
300 years—and a minuet of the period. As
the performers will wear their Louis XIV.
costumes for the dance, the committee hopes
that all the guests will keep up the atmo-
sphere by coming in carnival dress.
To-day the Benevolent Society is holding
its 116th annual meeting, and the just-
completed main blocks of the Royal Hos-
pital for Women will be open for inspection
afterwards. The new nurses’ home, nearing
its final stages, should also prove of interest.
The Society of Arts and Crafts is hold-
ing a needlework exhibition at 8 Rowe-
street from February 25 to March 2.
To be hoped the Honorable Mrs. Gilmour,
who came to Australia in attendance on the
Duchess of York, puts a bit more warmth
into her smile now that she is to become an
ambassador’s wife. The lady was the good-
looking, graceful one who wore her frocks
without any back; so, as the Girl in the Flat
Opposite says, what could you expect but the
cold shoulder? To this Letter her mouth
always seemed to be saying “These Colo-
nials!” A week or two ago, according to
the cables, the lady secured a divorce from
her husband; now she is about to marry
Viscount Castlereagh, son and heir of the
Marquess of Londonderry. He is an
honorary at Rome.
Pianist Jascha Spivakovsky, who was here
in 1922, is returning to Sydney next week
with the bride he found in Adelaide. She
was Leonie Krantz, and first met Spivakov-
sky at a party where she was raising a
light-weight mezzo in song. A year or two
later the steamer on which she and her
people were travelling to Europe strayed by
some change of programme into Hamburg.
So the family went to Berlin. Here their
old acquaintance was billed to give a concert.
They went and then told him how they liked
it. Followed a ouick marriage between the
Australian and the Russian. But more haste
less honeymoon. They only bothered to have
the civil ceremony in Berlin, meaning to have
the religious one on their return. But on the
Czecho-Slovakian border such heresy met its
punishment. The bride and the ’groom were
torn apart and kept apart till a religious
ceremony was performed. And after that
still another -wedding had to be faced —the
one ordained bv the Soviet for its children.
Spivakovsky never plays Mendelssohn's
“Wedding March” now.


£
V*
§
€
a
i
A
rj
Ms
Si'/.
m
%Wmm
iStesYr/istfvSi
•&Ssi
plSg mm
mm
m
sWlpfe
m
n
f
m
SB
Ip
I
mj
|J
iK
“I
•tA
X
it -
II
«
1
M
x
Ci£
OT only in the great cities, but in the more
remote districts as well, the popularity of
Sharwood Shoes for Men and Women grows
ever greater and greater. The reason is obvious—
they are good to look at, because in cut and style they
express the last word of fashion, and they are good to
wear, materials being of the finest, and workmanship
being exceptionally thorough. For comfort and
fitting, too, they are unexcelled.
When next you need boots or shoes, ask for
Sharwood’s —wear them once and you’ll wear them
always. All better-class stores throughout Aus-
tralia will be pleased to submit the newest models
for your inspection.
Remember—the name is on every pair—be sure to
look for it! It is NOT a Sharwood unless it bears
this name!
%>
FAttTLC//
fCCnVEAR
7^yr\
•t,
$
B-Et
v ,"
K
7"
r>\A
i
V,J i j
blfe l
fCk L
o\P
Communicate with the Sharwood Service Bureau, Abbotsford,
Melbourne, if you have any difficulty in procuring both men’s
and women's shoes.


1
•f
3^.
{
1
s
35
Best
d
i)
&
m
¥
ft
o
m
•JHEHsat mi'll
7&tPf
<Lv*/ lj
W
hiiHnrTf.
i'AM
fit
I i»f
a
*/ 3 ■!!!«
1
3S
unnitt
J <i|;ilfii
I
m
■v
w
A Timely Suggestion —
and a Ready Acceptance
ERE IS ANOTHER GOOD
Australian who has responded
_____ readily to the suggestion to use
BRYANT & MAY’S Matches:
■a,! ;• a
First —
Because they’re Australian and he
believes in supporting Australian
industries.
Second —
Because he’s proved there’s no
better match anywhere “for out-
doors and in.’’
Insist on Qetting the Australian Made —Ask for
BRYANT & MAYS
AUSTRALIAN ,
HATCHES
33 -
3*
< or
-to
mm


COLOMBO/
HE Australian traveller
finds in Colombo an
® entirely new and over-
whelming interest. In the
bazaars and in the streets,
caste jostles caste, race shoul-
ders race. Beyond are the
jungles where lie buried great
cities of the shadowy past;
Kandy and the Temple of the
Tooth, famous Buddhistic
shrine; mountains, paddy-
fields, tea - plantations.
For the return voyage Sydney
to Colombo the Orient Line's
Special Fare is £65, First Saloon.
ORIENT
LINE
oq'ixiojo
x'sjns '}'in J i£ y
i.fe
&
m
m
m
*
Jj
•H:
**S
i#
,
li
luU
1
0
iTW
m
€
EOTHEN
I ft
m
???
PAYING GUESTS
EAST TERRACE
(Corner Wakefield St.)
ADELAIDE
ODD
UNEXCELLED CUISINB
Inclusive Tariff £4*4-0
Central 328
Mrs PARKER
Amusements.
gYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S : HIT THE DECK.
ROYAL: THE WRECKER.
CRITERION: THE PATSY.
PALACE: NEW BROOMS.
JOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Direction E. J. CARROLL.
EASTER SATURDAY. MARCH 30 ; also THURSDAY,
APRIL 4, and TUESDAY, APRIL 9.
GRAND GALA CONCERT,
SATURDAY, APRIL 6,
with the
STATE CONSERVATORIUM ORCHESTRA.
• (Conductor: Dr. Arundel Orchard.)
ERICA”MORINI,
WORLD’S GREATEST WOMAN VIOLINIST.
“A feminine Heifetz —but more than that—for with
the technical assurance of a Heifetz she combines
not only the temperamental fervor of an Elman,
but the tone and rhythmical verve of a Kreisler.”
—New York American.
Preliminary and country booking applications should
be sent to Nicholson’s Box Office, 416-418 George
Street, Sydney, accompanied by stamped addressed
envelope.
BODY OF HALL AND GALLERIES:
10/11 and 8/3 (including tax, etc.).
GALA CONCERT, APRIL 6.
Prices: 13/8 and 8/3 (including tax).
Coming, BRAILOWSKY, Great Russian Pianist.
Amusements.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
TH EATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
SHOWING NIGHTLY.
A NEW SHOW EVERY WEEK.
NELLIE BRAMLEY
COMPANY present
The highest class of play obtainable, at popular
prices.
The Royale Syncopators Chase Gloom
from Dull Intervals.
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S: THE DESERT SONG.
ROYAL;
MARGARET BANNERMAN in
THE MARIONETTES.
]UEW COMEDY THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
RUTH NUGENT and ALLAN BUNCE in
PIGS.
ING ’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
LEON GORDON in
THE FLYING SQUAD.
fJQYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
11 MELBOURNE.
MORAN OF THE
With RICHARD DIX.
ALSO
FURTHER ADVENTURES OF THE
FLAG LIEUTENANT
With H. EDWARDS.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER.,
who will quote you price for the original.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Bathing suits have been the most popular
attire here of late. We’ve melted through
a humid heat-wave and given the little fishes
in the Cottesloe surf a merry spectacle of
spots, stripes and zig-zags. Some visitors
who were fortunate enough to spend our
hottest week near the beach were Mrs.
Arthur Loton and daughter Jean, Mrs. Percy
Stone and Lucy, Mrs. Taaffe, Mrs. Hope
Robertson and her daughters, and Mrs.
Clarrie Meares and her family.
Despite the heat wave there was an eager
crowd of bridge players at the Automobile
Club’s evening. Phlox, roses and sprays of
young gum-shoots adorned the card rooms.
Gum-tips and yellow globules of golden
glow filled the biggest room at Meerilinga
Kindergarten Training College when Athole
Clifton gave a farewell bridge party for
Doris Good and Marjorie Birks. The hostess
chose a gown of black lace over silver cloth
and a bouquet of green flowers. Among old
kindergarteners playing were Mrs. Earl
Arney, Mrs. Tom Leake, Mrs. Elton Wil-
son, Miss Pendred, Miss Graham, Edith
Ryan, Joan Good and Peggy Kclsall.
Travellers who smiled this week above a
network of colored streamers on Fremantle
wharf included Mrs. Lance Hayward and
daughter Lloyda and David Stewart and
his niece Nell Stewart, who boarded the
Mooltan for the Cold Land. The Centaur
went north with Marjorie Birks, bound for
a holiday with her old chum Mrs. Alec
Small, in Jahore, and F. D. Good and
daughter Doris and the H. A. Cresswells
and their daughter, who intend to have a
look at the paddy fields and temples of Java.
The Alec McNeils went in the other direc-
tion. The Maloja took them to Melbourne,
the first lap of a nve months’ tour of China
and Japan.
This is a Bardwell Clarke picture of Mrs.
P. R. le Couteur, v ho is very busy these
days settling
li e r family
into the head-
master’s house
at the High
School. She
has s o m e
friendships to
renew here
after a sojourn
in Melbourne,
as some years
ago her hus-
band occupied
the Chair of
Philosophy at
our Uni.
Music is her
hobby. She is
a fine pianist
and plays the
violin ex-
quisitely. Dur-
ing her pre-
vious residence
here she organised a string quartette, of
which her husband was a member. Latterly
she has given recitals in conjunction with
Floyd Allen at her home in Melbourne. Mr.
le Couteur has been headmaster of the
Methodist Ladies’ College, Melbourne, for
the last 11 years.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The Launceston Cup Carnival set new
records for fine weather, large attendances
and exciting racing. His Ex. and Margaret
O’Grady went north for the gay week, and
a big crowd of racing folk from the south
swelled the throng. Miss O’Grady wore
beige lace and georgette for the Cup, and
lime-green silk with short cape and bright-
colored sunshade on the second day. The
sex that wears stockings revelled in the
bright weather which enabled them to spread
their summer plumage. Chairman G. C.
Clemons and his wife entertained his Ex.
and a host of others at tea in the committee
room on Cup Day, and president Gibson and
Mrs. Gibson did the honors next day.
The exhibition of curios organised by the
Child Welfare folk, with the C.J.’s lady in
the lead, occupied the new Eastern room
at the Continental, which made a good set-
ting for the exhibits. These included ancient
pottery and brass, Chinese mandarins’
dresses and exquisite lace, coins, jewellery
and 600-year-old specimens of book-binding.
In the evening there was a costume parade,
a delightful affair, the wearers of the old
dresses having been chosen with an eye to
the appropriate type. Evidently we have
evolved a new type in this new country, for
the wearers, clad in their great grand-
mothers’ garb, were all much more slender,
and, in most cases, taller than their fore-
bears evidently had been.
Katherine Clarke, for her marriage to
Eric Waugh at the Congregational Church,
wore the dress in which her grand-
mother was wed GO years ago, and very
charming she looked in it. The gown is of
heavy French brocade, tight in the bodice,
full in the skirt, with long sleeves slashed
with Honiton. It was worn with one of the
Victorian-style short veils of exquisite lace.
Her maids were sister Patty and Jean and
Nancy Dbwnie, all in buttercup-yellow georg T
ette with long skirts, all frills, and two tiny
girls, a cousin and a niece, Cynthia John-
ston and Hester Clarke, in yellow organdie,
with wreaths of tiny yellow rosebuds on
their small heads. The reception was at
Summerholme, now the home of the bride’s
uncle and aunt, the A. C. Walches.
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
While at Warwick, his Ex. and Lady
Goodwin went to the hostel of the C.W.A.,
accompanied by their host and hostess, Mr.
and Mrs. J. H. S. Barnes, Mrs. Clark and
Colonel Campbell. Blue and white asters
were presented to her Ex., and Mr 3. Barnes
received a bridge-scorer. Mrs. Sterne, the
president, did the welcoming. The rank-and-
fashion of the district were present.
The look of quiet gratification on this
pleasant face is justifiable, for the owner
of the features, Henri Tardent, of Wynnum,
received word from the French Government
that he has
been enrolled
as Ofticier
d ’ A c a demie,
an honor the
republic re-
serves for lead-
ers in litera-
ture, art and
science, M.
Tardent comes
in tbe literary
category. 1 ie’s
Australian cor-
respondent for
L ’ IL LUSTRA-
TION, Paris,
and (he was.
born in one of'
the French
cantons of
S w i tzerland)
of the Gazette
de Lausanne.
A naturalised
and a good Australian for 40 years—the
two don’t always run in double harness —
three of his sons fought in the Great War.
One was killed in action, another was
severely wounded, and the third won the
Croix de Guerre. There are only four Offi-
eiers d’Academie in Australia and this State
harbors three —the Comte de Tournouer and
M. Troedson, Director of the Government
Intelligence Bureau, are the other two
Queenslanders. M. Tardent is a leading
figure in Brisbane’s musical and literary
circles.
On his return to Brisbane Sir John went
to the Ascot races, and he and Lady Goodwin
were guests of the committee for luncheon
and tea. Her Ex. wore rose beige marietta
and Paris lace, with a large-plumed' rose
hat; Mrs. Cecil Palmer was in ivory and
powder-blue and a natural-toned ballibuntal
hat; Mrs A. E. Coldham chose an embroid-
ered ivory crepe de Chine with small black
Baku hat; Mrs. Duckett White was in floral
ninon with a large hat; Mrs. E. T. Bell was
a study in red and blue; Mrs. Leonard Mar-
getts contrasted navy and rose; Cooee Blume
was in yellow with a green hat; Audrey
Coldham was a daffodil, her hat also of yel-
low ; Mrs. J. H. S. Barnes wore grey with
touches of blue and gold ; Nancy Stewart was
in tea-rose pink, and Grace White wore
shell-pink.
St. James’s, Coorparoo, saw the marriage of
Geoffrey, son of Mr. and Mrs. W. G. Ifayes,
of Toowoomba, to Grace, daughter of the
D’Arcy Richardsons, of Greenslopes, and
grand-daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Robert Ross,
of Taranganbar station, Yeppoon, and Pal-
merston, Sydney. The wedding-dress of
white georgette was a present from the
bride’s aunt, Miss B. Richardson, London.
The tulle veil was caught with orange-
blossom, and the bouquet was of orchids and
white roses. Yvonne Richardson, in pastel
pink with a large pink hat, ’maided. St.
James’s Hall saw the feasting.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The Stuart-Ward wedding was in St.
Peter’s College Chapel. The bride, who is a
niece of the Boxer Wares, was all filmy lace
and flesh pink georgette, with three green-
clad bridesmaids for background—Lorn a
Hack and the bridegroom’s sisters, Mary and
Helen Stuart. Congrats, were said at the
Wares’ home at Medindie. The bridegroom,
Kingston Stuart, is the only son of the
Master of the Supreme Court. ;
The Governor went down to Yankalilla
for an hour or two for the re-union of
former and present residents, and there were
many house-parties.
The H. H. Duttons are back, her luggage
including innumerable tissue-clad parcels to
carry Lady Weigall’s greetings to Adelaide
friends. The Weigalls’ house, be it in Lon-
don or Lincolnshire, is a rendezvous for
South Australians, and the Weigalls’ hos-
pitality is boundless.
The Schomburgks are some of the many in
the midst of packing for an oversea trip, and
there have been good-bye parties with Mrs.
Lavington Bonython hostess at one (she is
a niece of Mrs. Schomburgk’s) and Mrs.
Longbottom at another.
The A.N.A. prize for an Australian story
goes to Mrs. F. L. Sanders, of Clare, for
“Wings of Destiny,” a short story. She is
a descendent of Alan Ramsay, the Scottish
poet, and her father was a writer.
Elsie Woolley (off the concert platform
she’s Mrs. Sable Grivcll) leaves for England
in the Maloja, and will probably be a com-
petitor in the Welsh Eisteddfod at Liverpool
in August.
Greta Callow chose a white dress for her
farewell concert —satin and tulle with a rose
or two a-blowing on one shoulder. Irene
Kemp, at the piano, was in black; Hilda
Reimann, white; and Muriel Marks, pale
pink georgette and lace. The audience was
appreciative.
NORTHERN TERRITORY.
Darwin.
We’ve had a football carnival—a fancy-
dress procession through the streets, sports
on the oval, and a plain- and fancy-dress
ball in the evening. A red-and-white cottage,
a pirate ship and “The Pride of the North”
(a motor-car that dates back to 1913) shared
the honors of the procession. At the ball
many attractive costumes were worn. The
Football League’s funds benefited.
Mrs. Andrew Cant, wife of one of our
business men. died suddenly of heart-failure
last month. Though not so well known as
her husband, she was a favorite with all
who knew her, and had been a resident pf
Darwin for many years.


The Man with
an Axe to Grind "
Benjamin ‘Franklin
was fond of telling the
story against himself of
a man who wanted to
grind his axe. Going
to the yard, where he
saw young Franklin,
he asked the boy to show
him how the machine
worked, kept praising
him till his axe was.
ground and then
laughed at him for
his pains.
M
m
y
m
A\
M.VJ
.. __ ll
%
'
y
Ifc/
pr.
U
A
WJ.
INCE the days of Franklin the
saying “an axe to grind” hasg
become a common one. As all |
know, its use to-day is to imply some “
selfish motive in the background—
some personal interest to answer. |
The man “with an axe to grind” is
found everywhere to-day. We have
no doubt he is busy from selfish
motives in many spheres of activity.
Our concern lies chiefly in his opera-
tions against Old Court Whisky.
His is the voice that spreads prejudice
like a disease. His is the voice that
hints at weakness in your intelligence
if your patriotism or opinion guide
you to support your own country s
products. The more successful that
product, the more vigorous his efforts
to sway you. Why?
For one obvious reason only. In the case of
Old Court, because its ever increasing popularity
in some way affects bis personal welfare.
There can be no other reason. Old Court
Whisky cannot be criticised in quality and
purity. If such criticism were possible, Old
Court’s lon& -standing challenge would have
been accepted lon& a&o.
Beware of the man with “an axe to &rind.
Let your own opinion £uide your actions. Ifyou
want OLD COURT WHISKY, have OLD
COURT WHISKY. It’s the World’s Purest,
and the World s Best Value.,
4
£)hc Vorlcfr Purest>
Ill'll Hill
ill? u
;fp i. S?
o
S?j I
> 5
U -
SsDSB 1 EH3
h''\IWi\WTTMBW


COMMONWEALTH si;' LOAN FOR STATES.
AMOUNT ASKED FOR, £7,000,000.
INTEREST 5£ P.C. PRICE OF ISSUE, PAR.
PERIOD OF LOAN, 10 YEARS.
INTEREST PAYABLE 15th JANUARY AND 15th JULY.
The Loan is issued by the Commonwealth Government on behalf of the Governments of the States.
Subscriptions may be paid in full at the time of application, or by instalments the last of which is payable on 4th June, 1929.
Interest will be paid from the date of lodgment of moneys. „ „ , , . ~ , f , u - *
Bonds, payable to bearer, or Stock may be purchased. Bonds will be issued for £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO or £lOOO. Stock will be inscribed for £ a p
After 15th July, 1929, holders of Bonds amounting to £lOO or over can exchange them, if they so desire, for Stock of this issue, and holders of Stock can exchange
it for Bonds of this issue.
Interest will be subject to Commonwealth Income Tax, but free of all State Income Taxes. . , r ,
Applications may be lodged at any Bank, State Savings Bank, Money Order Fost Office, or with any member of a recognised Stock ii/xchange.
The Treasurer reserves the right to close the Loan at any time and to refuse subscriptions.
Commonwealth Treasury,
22nd February, 1929.
EARLE PAGE,
Treasurer.
2]
The Resurrectionist
By J.H.M. Abbott.
THE deadly seriousness of being utterly
unfriended struck Mr. John Dickinson
with appalling force. In all the big
chamber of the Clerkenwell Sessions House
there was not one human being, from Judge
to doorkeeper, who felt pity for him. In
all London there was no one—in the whole
of Great Britain not a single soul —who
gave him sympathy in this his hour of
affliction. Not one.
And yet there should have been. What
he had done—though it had been for his
own gain and profit in order that he might
live —had been done in the cause of science.
He had been the humble instrument by
whose repulsive labors —they really were
repulsive to him, as much as to those who
despised him for them —by whose midnight
toilings and sweatings, knowledge and learn-
ing and cunning in the healing arts of medi-
cine and surgery had been made possible to
scores of bright young men. Some of them,
even now, had established reputations for
themselves —thanks to his services. The end
and object of his efforts had been worthy,
beneficial to suffering humanity, even noble.
There could be no doubt of that.
And yet listen to what the Recorder was
saying! Look at his fat, red face, framed
in its white wig and mounted upon the scar-
let pedestal of the robes draping his stout
carcase, mouthing scorn and disgust, con-
tempt and loathing.
Look at the cruel, white faces turned
towards him as he stood in the dock, suffer-
ing bitterly under the flood of bitter words
that was being wheezily poured upon him
from the elevation of the bench. Not one
of them—handsome or ugly, good or bad —
that did not register disgust, dislike and
disapproval. There was not a single person
there who would be likely to take him by
the hand and say: “Bear up, good fellow —
have courage. I am sorry for you. Yours
is a dreadful and undeserved misfortune.”
No. If they could do so they would gladly
stone him to death in the street without,
tear him limb from limb or cheerfully watch
him choking and kicking outside Newgate
prison. No one had one particle of Chris-
tian feeling towards him. He was alone —
terribly alone and aban-
doned to the Devil.
“I find it difficult,” his
Lordship was saying—“l
find it difficult to express
those feelings which, in
common with all your
fellow-men who are cog-
nisant of your infamy, I
have for y0u.... A de-
testable and loathsome
crime.... sacrilegious and
blasphemous... .puts you
beyond the pale of decent
society.... Nothing can
mitigate the enormity o
your offence, nothing les-
sen the horror with which
mankind must regard it
and yourself.... Robbing the dead....
a horrid gh0u1....a caricature of man-
hood .... regrettable that it does not lie
within the power of the judiciary to deprive
you of that gift of life which you have
abused and polluted. You are baser than
the lowest of God’s creatures.... a human
jackal.... Your crime stinks to Heaven,
and is such that Heaven will surely punish
much more effectively that it lies within my
power t 0.... The sentence of the Court is
that you be transported oversea to his
Majesty’s colony of New South Wales for
a term of fourteen years, there to undergo
penal servitude. For its own benefit it is
sincerely to be hoped that you may never
return to the country of your birth. Re-
move the prisoner.”
This last order, in the manner of its
enunciation, had sounded as though the
Recorder had actually said: “Get a shovel
and throw this offal upon a dungheap.” Mr.
Dickinson felt infinitely hurt, by the fashion
in which the three words were spat at him.
As he was led along damp and gloomy cor-
ridors to the cold cells of the Correction
House, where he would abide until they took
him to Newgate and thence to a hulk in
the Thames, Mr. Dickinson reflected gloomily
that but for the iniquitous doings of Messrs.
Burke and Hare in the previous year, the
useful though necessarily clandestine occu-
pation by which he gained his livelihood
would not have been so widely advertised
as to bring about its practical abolition.
Those grasping, greedy, unprincipled prac-
titioners had not only ruined the business
as a business, they had turned it into a
crime for which the more reputable of its
professors, such as himself, were punished
savagely and outrageously. Popular preju-
dice had been aroused against it, and the
Law, which had previously winked a com-
plaisant eye—half acknowledging its neces-
sity—now not only pounced upon but per-
secuted it to the bitter end.
A hundred times John Dickinson had
argued the matter out with himself. Medi-
cal students must have subjects for dissec-
tion, else how were they to acquire that
knowledge of anatomy so necessary to the
proper understanding of the ills and acci-
dents that afflict the human body? There
were not enough people hanged to make the
supply equal the demand. How was the
situation to be met? He and others had
met it by digging up from freshly-made
graves the undecomposed corpses of recently-
deceased people, who might well be sup-
posed, in their newly-acquired immortality,
to be glad that such use—such benevolent
use—could be made of their discarded mor-
tality. Would an institution like the Royal
College of Surgeons countenance such a prac-
tice if it were really wrong? Of course not.
But those two ruf-
fians in Edinburgh,
Burke and Hare, not
content with a really
liberal death-rate, had
picked and chosen sub-
jects for the dissect-
ing-room whilst they
were still alive, had
caused their death, and
had brought the whole
trade of providing for
“Mr. Dickinson and Mr. O’Connor awaited the arrival of Surgeon Samuel Porter, R.N."
the anatomy schools into hatred and contempt.
Nothing but the greed of these men had
landed him, John Dickinson, a hard-working
family man, in the lamentable position ip
which he found himself. Formerly his avo-
cation had been more or less tolerated by all
but the close relations of those who were
selected for exhumation. Now it was pro-
secuted in such a fashion as might well
bring about the ruin of the medical profes-
sion !
It was altogether in keeping with the per-
verted view society now took of his calling
that the turnkey who shoved him into his
gloomy place of temporary abode and
slammed the door upon him, should remark
jeeringly: . , „
“There’s your silent tomb for a bit, me
coffin-buster! W’en they resurrects you,
Johnny me boy, ’twill be ’long o’ Bot’ny
Bay where ye’ll come to light ag’in.”
* * * *
It was a curious instance of the jesting
habits of Fate that, after he had completed
his term in an iron-gang engaged upon the
construction of Major Mitchell’s new road
over the Blue Mountains, the first employ-
ment under the assignment system which
Mr. John Dickinson enjoyed was in the
service of One-eyed Tom, the sexton at the
Sandhills —the newly-established burial-
ground which survived until a quarter of
a century ago on or about the site now occu-
pied by the Central Railway station in
Sydney. It was a circumstance which
appealed to his not entirely deficient sense
of humor.
“Th’ Lord lummo,” he would say, “they
sends me ’ere for a-diggin’ of ’em hup, and
now they sets me to a-diggin’ of ’em hint
Did y’ hever ’ear tell o’ such a caper V”
lie was a cheerful sinner—a little fat man
with a red face and bulging blue eyes, and
always alive to the necessity of keeping one
of those eyes upon the main chance. The
sympathy and good feeling which he ever
displayed towards the relatives —especially
the more opulent ones—of those he had to
put under ground earned for him tips and
presents of varying value. Sometimes these
expressions of appreciation on the part of
the bereaved would take the form of com.
But often he would be the recipient of some-
thing that had to do with the trade or call-
ing of the chief mourners. A disconsolate
butcher whose wife he had buried would send
him a fore-quarter of mutton. A baker
would, for a period, keep him supplied with
new bread. A grocer would offer a box of
candles.
The Australian climate, in some unknown
fashion, is an inducement to generosity in
those who flourish in it. This has always been
so, and was especially noticeable about that
period—towards the end of the “ ’thirties”—
when the country was in process of evolution
from a prison community to the enjoyment
of constitutional government. It was un-
fashionable to be mean. Stinginess was
abhorrent. Liberality was a well-practised
and well-advertised virtue. So that it was
not often the assistant-sexton was forgotten,
however excusable the melancholy circum-
stances might have made it.
Thus Mr. Dickinson prospered. In eight
years he had his tickct-of-leave, and was in
a position to apply for an assisted passage
to Sydney for his wife and family. Ten
years after his arrival in the colony—in
IS43 —-One-eyed Tom went into the Sand-
hills himself, and the cheery, obliging Mr.
John Dickinson succeeded him as First
Gravedigger. Two years later he was a free
man. His past had been forgotten.
And now we come to his unfortunate meet-
ing with two persons who revived the past,
and almost succeeded in ruining the present.
One of these was the surgeon of H.M.S.
Indian —the other a dissolute Irishman who
went by the name of Peter O’Connor. The
latter was a free immigrant, though Hyde
Park Barracks held no prisoner who looked so
evil. He was a licensed waterman, who
kept his boat, in Sydney Cove, alongside the
Government Dockyard.
He came to Mr. Dickinson one evening in
the Sandhills, near to knocking-off time, and
stood looking down into the six-foot hole
that the sexton was just finishing. _ His
queer husky voice startled the grave-digger,
and when he straightened his back and
looked up at his visitor, the sight of
that unlovely countenance, with its slits of
closely-set eyes, its grey side-whiskers, broken
nose and loose, slavering lips, did not tend to
cheer him. _
“Good avenin’ to ye, Jawn,” said Peter
O’Connor.
“G’ night,” answered Mr. Dickinson curtly.
He did not appreciate the familiarity of the
other’s salutation.
“Is it nigh done ye are, thin? ’Tis a
worrud or two I’d be havin’ wid ye, Jawn
me bhoy.”
Mr. Dickinson climbed out of the grave,
and glared at the other. “John,” he snorted
— l “ John! And who give you leave, O’Connor,
for to call me be me name—like as if ye was
me brother. Which, thanks be to Gawd, ye’re
not.”
“Aw, whi r Jit now ! Listen to um! Ain t
I th’ ould 'thradesman th’ same’s y’silf—
an’ wasn’t we all Tom, Dick an’ Harry, th’
wan an’ another? ’Tis no disrcspec’ I’m
afther manin’ —Misther Dickinson, if ye
loike it betther.”
“’Ow’d yer mean —‘ole tradesman ■ ?’
“Faith, thin, nothin’ at all, at all—excipt
wance upon a toime I med me livin’ at tlv
same game what brung ye to th’ colony,
Mistlier Dickinson. I was a Resurrection
Man mesilf wance.”
Mr. Dickinson, having been for so long
honorably engaged in interments, did not
enjoy being reminded of the exhumation
period of his career. He scowled at the
Irishman.
“D —n ye,” he said, “what d’ye want?
I’m a-goin’ ’ome. ’Tis nigh to sundown.
Come an’ see me to-morrow.”
“’Tis an ur-rgent matther, an’ I was bid
for to bring worrud from ye this night. I’ll
walk wid ye a bit o’ th’ way, Misther Dick-
inson. Be y’r lave.”
With a grumble of grudging resignation,
the sexton put on his coat, shouldered his
tools, and led the way towards the cottage
by the cemetery gates where he lived.
“Come in, thin,” he growled in a surly
fashion. “On’y be quick abart it. I’ve to git
me tea an’ go- out. ’Tis a lodge night.”
Ungraciously he indicated a chair to his
visitor, and sat down himself, when they
had entered the little dingy living-room of
the lodge. “Well, what is it? What d’ye
want to see me abart?’’
“’Tis a shnug little crib ye’ve got here,
thin —Misther Dickinson. ’Tis that so.. An’
I’ll mel: no doubt th’ pay’s good. A stiddier
job a-plantin’ of ’em than a-diggin’ of ’em
up. Liss anxiety. Rig’lar hours. Oh, yis—
a dom good billet ’twill be, no doubt about it. ’
“Aw to Hell wi’ ye, O’Connor! Come,
to th’ p’int. What’s y’r business?”
“Faith, thin, ’tis a dhry t’roat I do b"
havin’ for to talk wid. Mebbe a cowld I
do be a-growin’ in me t’roat. Have a care
ye don’t be afther a-takin’ wan y’silf, Misther
Dickinson. A dhrop o’ good rum, taken in
toime, is no bad previntive these cowld
noights. ’Tis a damp job, a-diggin’ in tli'
soil —an’ well I knows ut.”
Muttering a curse, Mr. Dickinson went to
the dresser, and returned with a bottle and
glasses, which lie set upon the table. Mr.
O’Connor helped himself liberally. His host
did not drink with him.
“Well, well, what’s th’ matter?” he asked
impatiently, when the other had gulped down
a tumbler full and poured himself another.
“What d’ye want to see me abart? Is’t a
funeral ?”
“Thin ’tis not. ’Tis th’ op’site. ’Tis a
resurrection.”
Furious, Mr. Dickinson rose to his feet.
“Out o’ me house!” lie cried. “To Hell with
ye, ye villain —suggestin’ sich a thing!”
The other sat unmoved. He took another
pull at the rum, and waved the sexton back
to his chair. He leaned forward, his hands
on his bony knees, and grinned slyly at Mr.
Dickinson.
“Sure, thin, is twinty guineas a bad sug-
gestion, me ould feller thradesman?”
“What?”
(Concluded on page 53.)


feygjijjfcr—
-53
sd
I\\\ u
1
Sydney’s Mighty Bridge
—and "Macsori Rivets
A great undertaking; worthy of the great City
and a great Nation.
Interwoven in the einthraHing stpry of this
gigantic structure are the interesting facts
about its “Macson” Rivets.
Five million are required, totalling about
3200 tons. Some are nearly 15 inches long.
Hydraulic Riveters exerting pressures up to
80 tons are used.
Because of the tremendous strains to be
withstood, every single rivet in that enormous
quantity must be of the highest quality. No
suspicion of “weak links” can be allowed in
the huge edifice.
Each consignment of rivets
is subjected to severe tests
before being accepted from
us. These tests only serve
to emphasise again and
again the remarkable
strength of “Macson”
Rivets. High quality
rivets, of various types
and sizes, are supplied to
dockyards, building con-
tractors, railways and
other important public
works, and are manufac-
tured at our Bolt and Nut
Factory at Richmond.
We have a limited num-
ber of copies of a very
handy booklet, which gives
interesting information
about the Bridge. It con-
tains illustrations on art
paper and much useful
data.
A copy will be sent post
free on reauest.
Call or write now.
Also available is our 1929
General Catalogue.
Proprietary Limited
ESTABLISHED 1860.
582-592 Collins Street, Melbourne
51-65 Bathurst Street, Sydney
116-130 Waymouth Street, Adelaide
S 3
In Days of Old
White hair was
all the vogue.
In modern days
grey or white
hair is consid-
ered a sign of
appr o a c h i n g
age.
It is NOT “THE
THING.”
All traces of Grey can readily be removed
by an application of
Dr. Alien’s (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
Sold at all Chemists and Stores.
Harmless, easy
to apply, can-
not be detected
Australian Agents:
DUERDIN AND
SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street,
Melbourne.
fsd
Learn to
DRAW!
IT GIVES PLEASURE
AND BRINGS PROFIT.
You can learn to make effective
original drawings in a short period
under the
a
1
(> (\ 71
X
WESTON POSTAL COURSE OF DRAWING
Mr. HARRY J. WESTON, the well-known Commercial Artist, conducts this School
personally, and every Student receives personal tuition.
Big salaries await successful students in the field of Art! Why not learn all about
this profitable hobby?
Take the first step to-day. Send your name and address for Mr. Weston’s booklet
entitled “THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN,”which tells all about the course, fees, etc.,
and gives examples of the lessons.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL OF DRAWING
77 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond Street, Sydney.
W. JNO. BAKER
fs
P 16.
W. JNO. BAKER
DOUBLE-EDGE
FOOT-ROT
SECATEURS.
Made in France;
lOin. overall, 12/6
each, post free.
Station
Steelware
df
BLOODLESS
EMASCULATOR.
Length overall, X3in.;
Width of jaw, 3in.
Price, £4/4/- each,
postage extra.
JLS H3JiNnH £
H3MVe’ONr/V
I
p ***********
r '®
W. JNO, BAKER TRIPLE
CRUSH EMASCULATOR.
A well-made first-class nickel-
plated instrument, combining
the blunt cut and the crushing
block. Its simplicity and
thorough effectiveness in opera-
ting commend it to both the
novice and expert. Price,
50/-, post free.
Illustrated Catalogue Post 'Free.
W. Jno. Baker
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
“THE AGE”
Established 185Jjf<
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“THE AGE” is a distinctive publication that
has taken root in the regard of the Victorian
people generally, and has flourished along the
highway of the State, keeping pace with the
development of the community for 74 years.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER TO
“THE AGE.”
It will keep you in close touch with the news
of the world by its full and accurate reports
on all subjects having a genuine news value.
Price 14d. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free within
the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE”
Publishes Over 1,000,000 advertise-
ments annually.
Rates on application to the principal advertis-
ing Service Agencies of the Commonwealth, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
R—f
ngouuttd iQnDiHM
INVINCIBLE MARINE MOTORS
have been made since 1906, and thousands of them
are in daily use in all parts of Australia, X.Z.
and the Islands. They are stocked in 10 popular
models —an Engine for every type of Boat.
The smgde-eylinder motors range from the 24-h.p.
size listed at £3O to 5-h.p. at £45, complete.
The /oar-cylinder engines from 8-h.p. at £B5
to the 60-h.p. Giant at £3BO complete.
We also build a six-cylinder heavy-duty engine
of 15 to 25 h.p. which lists at £lB5, including
complete equipment. Invincible Marine Motors
are equipped with “Robert Bosch” waterproof
Impulse Starter Magneto. All Spare Parts are
always available. Write for Catalogues To-dav.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS LIMITED.
Sydney Showrooms: 53 NORTH GEORGE ST.
(near Harbor Bridge).
Sales and Service in 55 Ports.
We solicit inquiries from, ISoatbuilders, Motor
Engineers and Machinery Merchants for local
Agencies in unallotted territory.


3
a
Queen
4 «
oAayj
Strength with. Beauty
/g)HINA of such fairy
a Shelley tea.
set might well seem too deli-
cate to face the risk of servants
hurried handling. Yet the
quality of English Bone China
is to have a toughness that
makes it far stronger than its
thin, translucent substance
might suggest. The name of
Shelley on every piece stands
for strength as well as beauty.
Ask to see the latest
SHELLEY
Tea Sets - Nursery Ware
Coffee Sets- jiyLucieAttweu
Morning Sets &Hilda Cowham
Dainty White Domestic Ware
» China • Jelly Moulds
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
BWlirjSH
MADE
PcriGctibrv
RUSK. RUBBER
COWBOY SADDLERY OUTFITS.
A \
'<l - i
.
r*m
■■ ' v" -K
• Fll
if 1 -dwS'ty.-'
mm
■’X:
V l:- X
THE
TEXAS
RANGER
SADDLE,
£l3/13/-
No. 73. LEATHER
CHAPS, as illustrated,
with Nickel Conchas
and Fringe, 91/-. With-
out Conchas, 857-
FANCY STUDDED
BRIDLE, with Gold
Color Cowboy Bit with
Nickel Horse-head, 76/-
Fancy Breastplate to match .... 75/-
Write for Catalogue of our Australian
and Texas Saddlery.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
sd
fsd
Box 785 G.
SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT!
POINT PIPER
WOOLLAHRA HOUSE
WOOLLAHRA HOUSE
POINT PIPER
IN SUBDIVISION
THIS HISTORIC ESTATE,
OCCUPYING ONE OF THE MOST DELIGHTFUL POSITIONS ON THE
HARBOR,
is specially designed to meet the requirements of gentlemen desirous of
acquiring Home Sites of Liberal Dimensions, ensuring privacy and a
Permanent View.
THE ESTATE IS APPROACHED BY WUNULLA ROAD,
a few minutes from New South Head and Cranbrook School Stop, is the
Centre of many of Sydney’s Principal Homes, near the Prince Edward Yacht
Club, and has the advantage of a Beautiful Sandy Beach (Lady Martin’s)
along the Water Front.
A Brochure will shortly issue shotting full particulars and views from, the Estate.
THE TITLE IS TORRENS. - - - EASY TERMS WILL BE GIVEN.
NOTE DAY OF AUCTION SALE ON THE GROUND:
SATURDAY, MARCH 16, AT 3 P.M.
Full Particulars will appear in the advertising columns of the Daily Press.
RICHARDSON & WRENCH, LTD.
92 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, AUCTIONEERS.
“There’s Docthor Portlier, he do be wantin'
rale bad th’ shtiff carpse o' big Bill Moody,
him they’re a-goin’ for to scrag at tli’ Woolloo-
mooloo Gaol t’morry marnin’ for murthrin
th’ Widdy Casey an’ her childher, afther
him a-robbin’ her house, las’ Mar-rch. He’s
got a pecooliar shkull to um, the docthor do
be sayin, what nades lukkin’ into. An’
twinty guineas lie do be willin’ for to pay
for th’ shtiff. A lib’ral gintleman. He’s
been afther a-givin’ me foive for to put th’
bus’ness t’rough Wid ye, Misthcr Dickinson.
I’ve towld him how har-rd ’twould be, in this
coonthry, f’r to fix up a resurrection, th’
same not bein’ fash’nable in these par-rts.
But ’tis expinse no object wid um. Begob,
there wus no such proices in Edinbro’ in
my toime. Now how does’t fale to ye?
Have ye no use at all f’r twinty gould
guineas?”
* * * #
In the bark-roofed tool-shed of the ceme-
tery, amongst a collection of wheelbarrows,
picks, shovels, crowbars, coils of rope and
other instruments of interment, Mr. Dickin-
son and Mr. O’Connor awaited the arrival
of Surgeon Samuel Porter, R.N., of H.M.S.
Indian. A dim lanthorn lit the little hut,
and the rain pelted down outside. Mr.
O’Connor, already very drunk, was intent
upon preserving his health against possible
ills due to the inclemency of the weather by
frequent application to liis lips of a bottle
of rum, which Mr. Dickinson sulkily declined
to share. The latter sat on a trestle in
the corner, contemplating the most striking
object in the room, and smoking his clay pipe
in a surly silence that the other ineffectively
sought to rally him out of. From their wet
clothing a faint mist of steam exuded, which,
blended with the tobacco smoke from their
pipes, made a ghostly atmosphere in the
tool-shed appropriate enough to the thing on
the boards across two trestles that occupied
its middle. The late murderer Moody, his
swollen neck-muscles ringed with a blue
bruise, stared up at the lanthorn dependent
from the ridge pole with wide open, glassy
eyes. His ankles were still ironed, and his
clothing was all over sand.
Came a knock at the door. Peter O’Connor
pocketed his bottle, and lurched across to
open it. Mr. Dickinson stood up.
With his cloak dripping with moisture, and
the brim of his top-hat pouring a shower
of glistening drops upon his shoulders, Sur-
geon Porter entered the hut, nodded to the
two live men, and smiled with satisfaction
as he contemplated the dead one.
“Ah thin, Docthor darlint, here’sh ould
Bill Moody a-waitin’ y’r convaynyance. Sure
’tis th’ illigent carpse he is—a credit to th’
hangman. Docthor Robert hisself nivir seen
a betther wan”
The surgeon turned his eyes upon the
bleary, leering countenance of Peter O’Connor.
He was a tall, thin man of middle ago, with ’
a keen, clean-shaven face. Something in
the drunken fellow’s last remark seemed to
take his attention.
“Dr. Robert!” lie said —“Dr. Robert who?
Whom do you mean?”
Mr. O’Connor swayed a little, and then
drew himself up, and appeared to swell with
importance.
“Faith, thin, I mane Docthor Robert
Knox, y’r honor. Him that kep’ tli’ ’Natomy
School in Edinbro’. Him that paid me an
ould Bill many’s th’ good thick ’un for
worse’n this fellie Moody. Begob, he’d ha’
bin nowhere widout us, so he wouldn’t!”
The surgeon peered at him. Then, after
a few moments, he pursed up his lips and
whistled softly, in apparent astonishment.
“Good heavens!” he said. “I remember
you, my man. I thought I knew your face.
Burke, of course, was hanged. I helped
dissect him afterwards. And you got away.
Well, well—l had supposed you were dead.
I had no idea”
Mr. O’Connor indulged in a hoarse cackle
of laughter. He pulled cut the bottle and
held it towards Dr. Porter.
“Haw, haw —let us dhrink to th’ good
ould toimes, Docthor dear. Th’ good ould
toimes—an’ th’ immorshal mimry av Bill
Burke. ’Twas me an’ him, Docthor. me an’
him, what made it poss’ble f’r all ye young
fellies for to get y’r dee-plcmies, so ut was.
’Tis a foine meetin’ wid ye agin. D’ye ray-
mimber ould Misthress Docherty? An’ daft
Jamie, that give us so much trouble. Sure
th’ silly gossoon he wuz th’ ind of us. Th’
ind o’ poor ould Bill Burke, sure enough.
’Twas a mistake a-takin’ him to Docthor
Robert, so ut was. Too dam’ well known.
Known to ivry wan in Auld Reekie, was
daft Jamie. But we done good work for all
of yous, Docthor —we done good work—afoor
tli’ dead carpse o’ Daft Jamie blowed th’
gaff on us. Ye’ll dhrink a sup, Docthor?
For to kape the cowld out.”
With an expression of disgust, the sur-
geon held up his hand in refusal of Mr.
O’Connor’s generous hospitality.
“Fla!” he said. “So you are William
Hare! Still alive —and as villainous as ever.
No, I’ll not drink to the memory of Mr.
Burke, I thank you. Come, I must get busy,
I only want this fellow’s head. You may put
the rest of him back where you took him
from. I will remove his head at once, ami
get away. I have the money for the sexton
with me. Why—good God ! —what’s the
matter with your’
Mr. Dickinson had risen to liis feet, and
was pointing a stubby accusing forefinger at
Mx*. O’Connor. . Plis protuberant eyes were
bulging from his face in a fashion that sug-
gested they might at any moment pop from
their sockets. His countenance had assumed
a livid, purplish tinge. He seemed to be
speechless with rage. O’Connor held the
bottle towards him. He dashed it to the
floor, and found his tongue.
“By God!” he gasped hoarsely. “You
you’re litre? Burke and Hare —by
God !”
“Control yourself, man!” cried the sur-
geon. “You’ll take a stroke if you’re not
careful.”
“Yesh, be jabers—Hare. Av th’ ould
firrum. Burke an’ Hare —th’ fri’nds o’
Docthor Robert. Th’ fri’nds o’ th’ faculty.
Th’ fri’nds o’ humanity. Med f’r to suffer
unjustly. Done nothin’ but good. Ould,
useless wrecks. Beggars an’ prostichutes.
Betther out av th’ way. No good to no
one—till they was on th’ dissecthin’ shlab.
We brung ’em there. Hurroo f’r th’ ould
“Fled, hatless, into the pouring rain.”
firrum! Hurroo f’r Burke an’ Hare. Th’
brave lads from th’ Ouid Sod!”
Cursing bitterly and vehemently, Mr. Dick-
inson grabbed a pick-handle and brought it
down upon William Hare’s skull with little
gentleness. He turned in fury upon Dr.
Porter, pointing to the door. Hare sank to
the floor.
“Out of it, you! Git outside! Else I’ll
crack you, too. Be off wi’ y’self. To Hell
with you and your money. Ye’ll not have
Big Bill’s head. No, by God, ye won’t!
Me to be brought to work with this
this fellow! Oh, ’tis a shame! A cryin’
shame! Me, a respectable man. This
murd’rer! ’Tis too bad—too dam’ bad and
wicked. I’ll put Big Bill back in his grave
—an’ I’ll beat th’ inside out o’ this carrion
afterwards. Git back to y’r ship, blast ye
—an’ don’t never come nigh me again. Me
to work with this villain that ruined the
trade ! To Hell out of it!”
He made a step towards the surgeon. Dr-
Porter turned, unlatched the door and fled,
hatless, into the pouring rain.
The Lid.
KATHLEEN A. JENNER’S STORY OF A WIFE WHO DIDN’T KNOW HER
HUSBAND WAS LOADED.
IT was Saturday, thank Heaven for that!
Alex. Graham had sat throughout lunch
as though a heavy weight were over his
forehead pressing down the flesh into a deep
frown. He was silent and morose, his gaze
lowered on his plate as though the burden
prevented him from raising his eyes.
Lucy and her mother chatted together
about trivial affairs. Lucy was like a flower
—not one' which grew m the garden, but
an artificial one, waxen and just a little
stiff. Her golden bobbed hair in shining
waves was carefully marcelled and tinted
with liquid out of a bottle. Her soft cheeks
were creamed and rouged, her Cupid’s bow lips
were vivid from the application of a lipstick,
and her little hands, manicured to peifec-
tion, were like white lilies. She held heise. f
3ust a little stiffly because she was afraid
or her toilet becoming disairanged. Her
mother, Mrs. Lawson, with her fat face and
hilndS ’ dld e T™J w' Ut
the place, even to attenihng to Lucy s baby,
w liad alway . s . S P°}
her, and considered that noth ng was good
enough tor her, including her husband. .
Graham had not heard a woid of their
conversation during lunch, and the moment
the last morsel of food was m his mouth
he was out into the garden, his shirt sleeves
rolled above the elbow and carrying the
gardening tools from the shed. He would
make a celery bed this afternoon; lie chose
his mainly because a celery bed requires a
lot of trenching and he felt the necessity
for something strenuous to work off this
morning’s suppressed fury
, y . was good * IVC a , eid< : '
berg! There were majestic mountains m
the distance, clear air and undulating space
—not like some of the other suburbs with
their narrow streets and cramped back yards.
The house was not large, but he had a
good block of land, and there was not an-
other garden to surpass his in the district.
He was immensely proud of his garden. The
back fence was skirted by a belt of tall, thin
gum-trees facing a series of beds set out
with flourishing vegetables—beans climbing
up straight stakes; tomatoes and silver beet,
and lettuce with soft liquid-green leaves.
The front garden, with its Cyclone gate and
smooth lawn, was festive with a party of
flowers—pink and white stock, sky-blue
lobelia, red and variegated carnations, petu-
nias and a host of other celebrated guests.
Each one of those bright beds of flowers
and thriving vegetables had been dug
and sown with the energy of hate. Hate
had been the lash which had flogged Graham
into turning over every inch of that soil;
hate lay buried beneath each one of those
delicate petunias and green lettuces!
He plunged his spade into the soil, thrust-
ing it down with his foot. It was terrible
to loathe one’s employer as he loathed Finlay
and to have to stick it out day after day.
This morning Finlay had reprimanded him
for being five minutes late. Graham real-
ised that it was within his employer’s rights
to criticise; but need he have used that tone,
as though he were addressing a dog? He
could still hear the parting sneer ringing
in his ears: “Have the goodness, Graham,
to remember that this is an office, not a
club, and-if you stroll in late again you’ll
walk out for good a damn sight quicker!”
Most of the other clerks pandered to Fin-
lay, fussed over him, kow-towed and humbly
accepted his bullying; then when he was
out of earshot they denounced him as a
rotter and a damned swine. Graham neither
grovelled in Finlay’s presence nor slated him
in his absence. He merely flushed a dull
red and was silent, hanging on like grim
death to the cauldron of emotion within him
which threatened at any moment to boil over
and fling hot retorts to his lips.
Before his marriage, two and a half years
ago, he would not have tolerated Finlay’s
attitude for five minutes. He would have
delivered a few -words of strong criticism
gratis, picked up his hat and walked into the
street. In his bachelor days Graham had
(Continued on page 57.)


Public Notice.
TYPEWRITING.—NOVELS, SHORT STORIES, Etc.,
promptly and accurately typed. 1/6 per 1000 words.
Postal orders promptly attended. MISS CONSIDINE,
747 Rathdown Street, N. Carlton, Vic. ’Phone P2337.
Missing Friends.
yO ALEXANDER TELFER EWART
A formerly of 386 Ferrars Street Albert
Park Melbourne Victoria.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife MABEL
MARY HENDERSON EWART has in-
stituted proceedings against you for
DIVORCE on the ground of desertion dur-
ing three years and upwards.
UNLESS you enter an appearance in the
Prothonotary’s office of the Supreme Court
in Melbourne on or before the 15th day of
July 1929 the case may proceed in your
absence and you may be ordered to nay costs.
HERMAN & STRETTON of 456 Lttle
Collins Street Melbourne Solicitors for the
Petitioner.
Legal Notices.
T"0 ANY CHILD OR CHILDREN OF
1 OWEN CONNOR OF DUBLIN. IRE-
LAND, SHOEMAKER, A BROTHER
OF SARAH JANE WHITE DE-
CEASED, AND TO ALL PERSONS
CLAIMING BY THROUGH OR
UNDER THEM OR ANY OF THEM.
PURSUANT to an Order made on 8th
February 1929 by a Judge of the Supreme
Court of New Zealand you are hereby called
upon to send in to the undersigned on or
before 1st September 1929 your claims to
the estate of SARAH JANE WHITE de-
ceased who died on or about the 6th July
1886 failing which the said estate will be dis-
tributed amongst those entitled thereto dis-
regarding your claims.
DATED at Wellington this 9th day of
February, liL.o.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
TO WILLIAM SCOTT, BROTHER OF
1 HENRY SCOTT DECEASED, AND
TO ALL PERSONS CLAIMING BY
THROUGH OR UNDER THE SAID
WILLIAM SCOTT.
PURSUANT to an Order made on 1st
February 1929 by a Judge of the Supreme
Court of New Zealand you are hereby called
upon to send in to the undersigned on or
before 1st June 1929 your claims to the
estate of HENRY SCOTT deceased who
died on or about the 1st March 1928 failing
which the said estate will be distributed
amongst those entitled thereto disregarding
your claims.
DATED at Wellington this 8th day of
February 1929.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
FOR ALL SPORT
BUY
THE SPORTING GLOBE
The Leading Australian Authority with the largest
staff of Sporting Experts and Special Representatives
in all States. The staff includes:—
“MUSKET” The Turf
“BAIL” Cricket
W. S. SHAKLAND Football
PAT O’HARA WOOD Tennis
J. J. MAHER Cycling
J. M. DILLON Golf
A. L. DOBBIE Rowing
TOM MORLEY Coursing
MAURIE COLLINS Bowls
H. C. BROOKE Yachting
New South Wales edition available —
every Thursday, price 3d.
“Benger’s Food
has saved my
baby’s life”
—5O says an Australian
mother, whose baby is now
thriving splendidly.
Babies thrive upon Benger’s,
because it is always prepared
with fresh new milk. Benger’s
enriches the milk and adapts
it to the delicate digestion of
a child.
fs
Food
Begd. Tbadb M ark.
Send for Benger’s Booklet, post free,
BENGER'S FOOD, Ltd.,
350, George Street, SYDNEY.
PERCY MARKS,
jeweller and lapidary,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emeralds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
m
f
tie.
m
3
sn
0
if ICHNEO
4/-
Here is a simple, pleasant way of getting rid of surplus fat and regaining
your natural slimness. There is no massage, no electricity, rvo boresoinc
exercise. Before going to bed take a warm hath to which has been added
LEICIINER 1001. This is quite harmless, having no effect upon the heart
or kidneys. LEI CHEER 1001 activates the cells lying under the fat layers,
thus breaking up the univan ted fatfy tissues. The effect is progressive;
renewal of the baths at suitable intervals secures further reduction.
Obtainable from, your Chemist; or i/6
post free from leading city stores.
Factory Representatives.
LOHMANN & COMPANY, LTD., 26-30 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
0
Your radio pleasure
depends on the speaker
M agnavox Dynamic Speakers are made primarily
to provide realism in music and speech, yet vol-
ume is available from a low whisper to far in
excess of any home requirements, all without dis-
tortion. The Belvedere is a beautiful piece of
furniture to add charm to your home.
A.C. Operation £l4/10/-
D.C. or A Battery Operation . . . . £ll/10/-
LET US DEMONSTRATE THROUGH
YOUR NEAREST RADIO DEALER.
Improve an Old Set—Perfect the new by using a
K2s:
MAGNAVCX
DYNAMIC SPEAKER
Australian Patent
No. 7225.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen tc
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price 3d.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS.
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Wanderings in Wild Australia
By Sir BALDWIN SPENCER.
K.C.M.G., F.R.S., author of “The
Arunta,” “Across Australia,” etc.
Two vols. Illustrated. 425. net.
Sunday Times. —“Sir Baldwin has for many
years done great work for science and for
investigators; with these volumes he has fur-
ther laid under obligation not only the mass
of his less learned fellow- Australians, but every
man, learned or not, who has the luck read
at leisure his vivid personal impressions.”
Letters of the Empress Frederick
Edited by the Right Hon. SIR
FREDERICK PONSONBY,
G.C.8., G.C.V.O. With four photo-
gravure portraits. Eighth thousand.
255. net.
After Thirty Years
By the Right Hon. the VISCOUNT
GLADSTONE, P.C., G.C.M.G.
With portraits and other illustra-
tions. 21s. net.
Worlds Within Worlds
A Book of Travel Sketches. By
STELLA BENSON. With illustra-
tions by the Author. Bs. 6d. net.
NEW NOVELS.
The Silver Thorn
A book of stories. By HUGH
WALPOLE.
[Dominions Edition.
The Spectator. —“A collection of short
stories, all of very high quality. My convic-
tion is that Mr. Walpole is always at his best
in Polchester; he is certainly at his most
Balzacian.”
What is Love?
By E. M. DELAFIELD.
[Empire Library.
Daily News. —“ ‘What Is Dove?’ is the best
book Miss Delafield has given us for a very
long time.”
To bo Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
OIYATTS
df
ARTIFICIAL
ARMS"“IEGS
TWTADE on most modem
principles to suit in-
dividual requirements.
Direct agents for the world's
foremost makers of the new
light metal Duralumin
Limbs.
Write giving some details.
Expert advice free. Visits to
your home can be arranged.
Dept tj
GUYATT & CO. u
257 a George St., Sydney
sd
SAFETY
RAZOR
KIRBY. BEARD Ltd
QHV39 xaaix
Made of a special steel with extra
keen edges, being specially suited
for stiff beards.
Iv I R B Y-
BEARD
RAZ 0 R S
give full protection without ob-
structing the cutting edges. Easy
to clean and require no adjustment.
Kirby, Beard & Co., Ltd., Ravenhurst Works, Birming-
ham, England. Also London, Redditch and Paris.
Australian Agent: H. E. UTTLEY.
Margaret House, 282 George Street, Sydney.
punog d eAet/s oj gyyjg v as/}
BIRKMYRE'S CLOTH
Ilegd. Trade-mark.
The best waterproof for motor-car
hoods, tarpaulins, horse and cow
rugs, etc. Canvas of all kinds, cot-
ton ducks and hessians, seaming,
bagging and shop twine.
Fishing nets and yarn. Samples
and prices on application.
™GOUROCK
ropewokk
EXPORT CO.
T rim
LI !/•
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
Charlotte Street, Brisbane, Q.
460 Flinders Street, Melbourne, Vic.


| JfICHY
==L —-- . i
IS
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Caovernment.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian. Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
&
THROW OFF THE MASK
FRECKLES, PIMPLES, BLACKHEADS.
Are Ugly Features.
Refined Folks Avoid Your Acquaintance.
I will tell every reader of this journal Free how every
blemish can be removed in Ten Days.
Stubborn cases have been cured that baffled physicians and
beauty-specialists for years. You have never in all your life
used or heard of anything like it. Makes muddy complexions,
red spots, pimples, blackheads, freckles, eruptions, vanish
almost like magic. No cream, lotion, enamel, salve, plaster,
bandage, mask, massage, diet or apparatus, nothing to swallow. It doesn’t matter
whether or not your complexion is a “fright,” whether your face is full of muddy spots,
peppery blackheads, embarrassing pimples and eruptions, or whether your skin is rough
and “porey,” and you’ve tried - almost everything under the sun to get rid of the
blemishes. This wonderful treatment in just ten daysvremoves blemishes and beautifies
your skin in a marvellous way. You look years younger. It gives the skin the bloom
apd tint of purity of a freshly-blown rose. In ten days you can be the subject of
admiration by all your friends, no matter what your age or condition of health.
All Other Methods Now Known Are Cast Aside.
There is nothing to wear, nothing to take internally. Your face, even arms hands,
shoulders, are beautified beyond your fondest dreams. All this I will absolutely prove ,
to you before your own eyes in your mirror in ten days. This treatment is absolutely
harmless to the most delicate skin and very pleasant to use. No change in your mode
of living necessary. A few minutes daily does it. . ...' „ , .
To every reader of this journal I will give full details of this really astounding
treatment. Let me show jmu. You risk nothing. Send me three penny stamps, your
name and address, and I will give you full details by return mail.
MISS GRACE DUNCAN (Suit B 8), 195 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
sprinkled them with holy water taken from
a marble font. He was well known by
sight to many, this vendor of religious
images, who wore a green-brown velvet
jacket, frayed at the elbows and worn
threadbare on the left shoulder, where his
basket rested. A handsome, swarthy fellow,
inclined to be fat, with wandering love-
bold eyes that were attractive to many
women.
On one fine day in August, when the
religious festival of the Assumption was be-
ing celebrated, Saccaco took up his stand
under the portico of St. Germain l’Auxer-
rois. To the devout, the dim religious
light filled the church with suggestions of
countless holy ceremonies, and of ghosts
of men and women in the church’s shadows.
Outside the church, in the Quai du Louvre,
(he everflowing stream of Parisian life
passed by, full of color, of sprightliness, of
gaiety.
An old and feeble lady, dressed in black
silk, alighted from a carriage' in front of
the church. Her rich clothes and jewellery
proclaimed her wealth, and she had the
further distinction of the air of a grande
dame. The driver stood bareheaded, glazed
bolltopper in hand, while she paid him his
fare. Saccaco glanced with secret appraise-
ment. Taking off his cloth cap, disclosing
his mass of tangled black hair, he
approached the unknown lady with a
request in broken French to buy a little
image of a saint.
The old lady came closer to him the
better to see him through her gold-rimmed
spectacles, for her sight was failing her. In
a thin voice, speaking Italian, she asked
him if he was not from the South. Saccaco’s
face beamed, and his tongue rattled along
in its old chattering way that was native
to Naples.
Evidently Saccaco recalled pleasant
memories of Italy to the old lady, for she
regarded him with interest. In the end,
before entering the church, she bought a
plaster saint, on the condition that he
delivered it at her apartments. Saccaco,
with many bows and thanks, agreed to do
so. The old lady searched in her beaded
handbag, found a gold case, and from it
took a card and handed it to Saccaco:
Baronessa Bellarosa.
Boulevard Haussmann.
When Francois Neigre was arrested for
the murder and robbery of the Baroness
Bellarosa in her flat in the Boulevard Hauss-
mann, the wife of Saccaco did not become
panic-stricken. Jeannette it was who out-
witted the Paris police; by a simple but
ingenious ruse she smuggled her husband
to Toulon. In that seaport town they lay
hidden for days till they secured a passage
to Naples, and from there they went as
Italian emigrants to Australia.
The newspapers of Paris published full
accounts of the crime, but it was in the
Cri du Peuple that the most interesting
personal particulars of the Baroness
appeared. The paper said: “She was the
widow of Baron Bellarosa, who was many
years ago the Minister Plenipotentiary at
Rome The roughness of the thief in
tearing an antique cross from the aged
Baroness’s neck left the marks of his fingers
on her throat. The doctors think that it
was the shock the Baroness received, re-
acting on a very weak heart, that was the
immediate cause of her death.
“Of the money and jewels obtained by
the thief there is no trace, which is most
extraordinary,” the report continued, “since
Francois Neigre was caught red-handed as
he left the Baroness’s apartment. He has
been associating with a peddler of religious,
images, known to many by sight, for this
peddler had a stand outside Notre Dame.
His name is Antonio Saccaco, and he sold
a little statue of Saint Stephen to the
Baroness, and delivered it at her apartments.
—He married one of the market women
who had a stall in the Rue de la Roquette.
When the police went to their room in an
attic it was strewn with images of saints.
The occupants had both disappeared.
“Like the police, every boidevardier
would like to know how these two have
made their escape. Is it by the great
sewers of Paris, or the catacombs, or how?
We await the solution of the mystery with
interest and impatience
“Neigre is a Breton, and was at one time
in the navy. He was discharged, and given
two years’ imprisonment for mutiny. Since
serving that sentence he has become a
notorious member of the night underworld,
where he is known as ‘La Savate.’ His skill
in that form of boxing, which includes in
its attack a sudden and dangerous kick in
the stomach, was great; and the name was
not given without reason to the Apache,
as many a police officer knows.... He
has a knife scar on his cheek. It was
received in a fight over a woman in a
cabaret frequented by Alsatians in Mont-
martre some years ago. He has more than
once been traced by the tell-tale scar, but
latterly he has taken to making it less con-
spicuous by the use of grease paint.”
Chapter I.
Blue Australian skies, sunshine and the
rippling waters of the Murray have tempted
the vines on their trellises to deck them-
selves with bunches of purple and amber-
colored grapes. The vintage season attracts
pickers hither from many far-distant places
in Australia. Others, too, are drawn to
Mildura, where much money is earned in
the vineyards, in the orchards, in the
packing-sheds, to be spent with freedom in
the joy of living that is an Australian
heritage.
One of the regular visitors at the harvest
of the fruits was a travelling hawker, one
Antonio Carducci. Twenty years before he
was Antonio Saccaco, of the Rue de la
Roquette, Paris, wanted in connection with
the robbery and death of the Barone ssa
Bellarosa.
Carducci, as Saccaco chose to call him-
self in Australia, travelled along the rivers
in his trading motor-boat, the Witch. The
chug chug of the exhaust pipe, echoing in
the silent reaches, was known to settlers on
the banks of the Murray and Darling, and
even up the Murrumbidgee. In summer
the rivers ran so low that the depth of
the waters was not sufficient to carry the
steamers and their barges over the sand-
banks and the rocks that are numerous.
The steamers, when the rivers were at their
summer level, laid up at Goolwa or Echuca
until such time as the snows melted in the
mountains or the tropical rains fell further
north and replenished the waters. But the
Witch had so shallow a draught, that low
levels in the Murray did not hinder Car-
ducci from taking his boat where he wished
to go, though in the Darling River, in its
higher reaches, not even the Witch could
travel. • Then the river lay like an undulat-
ing white ribbon across the country side,
a ribbon of sand threaded with yellow
beads, and the beads were yellow pools in
waterholes.
Carducci was known to the station-hands
and to the settlers on irrigation blocks as
Old Tony—somewhat too fond of drinking
beer, maybe; but a good-natured, fat
Italian. Almost at any time, if he was
asked to do it, he would tie up the Witch
in the vicinity of a shearing shed and play
his fiddle at a shearers’ ball.
To the station-hands, jackeroos, boundary-
riders and shearers not the least attractive
part of Old Tony’s visit was the presence
of his daughter. She could take her turn
at the piano, borrowed from the station
homestead, and accompany her father on
his fiddle. And she could dance, too.
None of the station girls, the governesses
or the maids, could do it so well; and they
can dance, the women and the men, who
glide at shearers’ balls over the wool-
shed floors that have been polished by hav-
ing thousands of heavy-yolked fleeces
tossed over them year after year at the
harvest of the golden fleece!
Carducci, his wife Jeannette and his
daughter Marie lived their lives on the
rivers. The boat was a floating storehouse
of almost' anything in reason that an Aus-
tralian settler out back might require. Evi-
dences of the occupants’ mentality were to
be found aboard. Affixed to the side
of the cabin was a statue of St. Catherine,
with a wheel symbolical of the wheel on
which she suffered. Madame regarded the
little plaster figure with the greatest rever-
ence. Carducci, on his part, found that only
at times did the observance of the forms
of religion bring to his mind any semblance
of spiritual tranquillity, and therefore he did
not call on his saints very often. He found
his relief from annoyances in fondling
his fiddle and in smoking large, coarse
cigars. The fiddle he had had since he
was a boy. Upon it he played two tunes
over and over again, never seeming to tire
of them. When his day’s work was done
he would start “Funiculi, Funicula,” and
this was always followed by the Waltz
tune from “Faust.”
Twenty years before, the birth of a
daughter had been made a grievance by
Carducci against his wife. In vain had he
cried every time his wife sneezed, follow-
ing the custom of Neapolitans of his class:
“May you have sons!” Jeannette, for her
part, prayed to Saint Catherine for a boy.
But it had all been without effect.
Not thinking it wise to annoy his wife
too much at the child’s birth, Carducci
spent his anger on Saint Catherine. Plac-
ing her statue before him, he abused her
with great oaths as a mocker of hopes and
as a saint indifferent to prayers. He cursed
her, and locked the figure and its shrine
in a box, following the custom of super-
stitious Neapolitan peasants when their
patron saint or their Madonna does not
please them. His wife, when she was able,
released the image from its dark cell and
shrined St. Catherine once more in her
accustomed place. Jeannette prayed for
forgiveness for her husband; with tears she
asked St. Catherine to intercede with the
Virgin Mary for blessings on her child.
Carducci called the child Marie, which
was the name engraved on a cross he wore,
hanging from his neck, inside his inner
shirt. He liked to feel the weight of the
gold over his heart. Its touch gave him a
sense of security against evil and of salva-
tion from what he dreaded most. He sus-
pended from the infant Marie’s neck, by
a ribbon, a little silver frog as a protection
against the Evil Eye, a charm, Carducci
said, as potent as Saint Gcnnaro’s hand.
The little babe Marie had grown up
into a fine young woman, due, no doubt,
Marie Carducci.
to the evasion of the Evil Eye. She was as
the core of her mother’s heart. Upon her
Jeannette lavished all her affection. Man
and wife had wrangled noisily at the end
of each quarter as to whether she should
continue at the school of the good nuns at
Adelaide. Every time the Witch tied up
at Goolwa. Carducci swore he would bring
the girl from the Convent, saying the
daughter of a travelling peddler on the
river should work at the time of the vintage
when Mildura wanted every fruit-picker
it could engage. Eventually the Italian had
his w’ay.
For a long time Carducci had been
unable to meet his bills in full as they
became due. He was, through the methods
of his trade, an elusive debtor, and mer-
chants seeking him often found a difficulty
in locating him and his boat. The day
came at last when he could no longer evade
the service of a writ of execution. After
its service he went from Echuca to Mel-
bourne, and consulted his friend and lawyer
Pinch, whose reputation, being very ques-
tionable, had long ago appealed to Carducci.
Pinch, at the request of the Italian, inter-
viewed the Melbourne merchants, and by
dint of specious lying and pleading in-
duced them to allow a stay of execution
for a fortnight. That time was within a
few days of expiring.
Once more in Mildura, Carducci re-
plenished his stores of petrol. He swore
to himself round oaths that his creditors
would not seize his home. The sale of a
woman’s jewels had paid the price of the
Witch, and by all the saints’ souls the
money should not be wasted. With Jean-
nette’s help he had left worse trouble than
this behind him. Now, maybe he could
have help • from a daughter, too.
Chapter 11.
Marie Carducci sat in the bow of the
Witch moored to the bank of the river,
not far from Mildura. For two fruit seasons
she had worked as a grape picker and
a fruit sorter. Her olive complexion, her
flashing dark eyes, her even features —her
face inclined to be more round than oval
—her red, ripe, sensuous lips, and her two
rows of perfect teeth, in addition to her
glossy black hair, were not in any danger
of being passed unnoticed in the river town,
or indeed anywhere else.
Marie was in a half trance of dreamy
meditation as she sat looking down stream.
Behind the gum-trees fringing the river’s
bank the moon was rising. Their boughs
and leaves were silhouetted in delicate
tracery against the dark blue background
of sky. Strange, subtle shadows floated
about the banks of the river. Where the
sheen of the moon was not intercepted by
trees, the old river reflected its silver light
in half monotone values.
And so it had been, month by month,
year by year. Little by little the subtle
witchery of the river had filled Marie’s head
with thoughts of romance. Through these
yearnings in day dreams and night reveries
surged her Italian passions, smouldering
as bush logs do till a strong wind fans them
into flame.
Love! Her ardent nature was full of
the power to love; yet what chance had
she to give adequate expression to her
womanhood while her life was passing tedi-
ously on a peddler’s boat on the Murray?
The vines growing in luxuriance and her
work brought to her subconscious memories
that came from she knew not \vhere. She
dreamed dreams of vintages she had never
seen, of Italian and French girls, such as
she was, carrying baskets ; of grapes. She
heard them in half trance, singing and
laughing, and she was one with them,
dancing and making love in the soft air of
the night. This sub-conscious chain of
associations with the lives of some of her
ancestors, linking up with her present life
of sunny days in the Mildjura vintage of
beautiful fruits, was broken into by an
owl of the bush calling as it rested on a
white bough of a gum-tree along the river-
side.
The half-trance, half-reverie of the old-
world picture faded in a flash. In its place
was the reality of the peaceful moonlight
scene on the river flowing, flowing as evev
towards the sea. Marie aroused herself,
leaving her father and mother asleep on
the boat, and stepped quietly ashore.
Dreaming of love, of music, of dancing,
she went into the town to the hall where a
ball was in progress. She watched, through
the hall’s open doors, for the sight of a
man who had smiled at her often when
they passed each other in the streets.
She soon picked him out from among the
dancers—Gerald Deacon, leading partner
after partner .to dance! He was the one
she had dreamed about, a man fit for love’s
idolatry.
She watched him as fee danced and her
Southern fire flamed in jealousy. She, and
she alone, was the woman for him! What
did these Australian girls know of passionate
love? Before the vintage was harvested
she would have him in her embrace. Then
she would break the bonds of her life on
the river.
The mopoke owl was still calling its
dreary monotone when Marie returned to
the silent boat. The shadows of the gum-
trees had grown deeper. The moon was
clouded. The river was dark and cold;
inscrutable, without even a silver ripple on
its surface it flowed onwards. She looked
over the boat’s gunwales into its depths, and
shrank away from its oily-looking surface
with'a shudder. The one-time smiling stream
no longer smiled, but its face told the tale
of swirling treacherous currents, hidden
rocks and cruel sunken snags. Uneasy in
her mind she went to her cabin and to her
bed, whereon she tossed in an uneasy sleep
till dawn, when the familiar voice of her
mother calling, to her brought her"'back to
the realities of life. Morning on the river
banished her fears and dreams.
During the day, but not without consider-
able misgivings, Marie told her mother
something of the impression that Gerald
Deacon had made upon her.
(To he continued.)


Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000.000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3.369.965
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1928.. £18,623,453
Directors:
Sir MARK SHELDON, K.8.E., Chairman.
FRANK N. YARWOOD; H. H. LYSAGHT, 0.8. E. ;
GEORGE J. SLY, LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER: C. M. C. SHANNON.
CHIEF INSPECTOR: W. G. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH: G 2 Bisliopsgate, E.C.2.
The BANK is represented by I 86 Branches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, with Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. •• •• £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. • • 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 616,210
Ordinary Shares .. .. •• 3,750,900
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,732,52;>
GRANTS DRAFTS Zealand, Fiji, ’ Samoa,
Great Britain and Irela d, and other places.
RECEIVES DEI OSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament 1865,
and Registered under the Companies Act 1892,
of South Australia.)
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 306 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE'S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,260,090
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 970,000
£2,220,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,470,000
Also 11.5 Branches and Agencies in South Australia,
London Office: 11»LEADEN HALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London.
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, me.et their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd.. 850 George Street, Sydney .
or 484. Toll ins Street. Melbourne.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed-
THINK OF
xvvr
SCHUTE,
BELL & Clio.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN CEUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISUAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAD ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNED CDUB
N.Z. GODF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. PODO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion ho—
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of the World’s Deading
Advertising' Agencies.
You promised pour self
a Holiday
“Wind in the palms and the murmur
of surf on the reef; light brown faces
smiling kindly welcome; everywhere
blossoms and fragrance, light, color
and soothing sounds, a feeling of
infinite remoteness,leisure and calm:’
fsd
fs
''THE favorite Winter
Excursions to the
Pacific Islands begin in
May. They offer oppor-
tunities for an ocean holi-
day on palatial liners at
less than the cost of a
city vacation. Auckland
and Suva are visited en
route to sunny Hawaii
and Honolulu, its delight-
ful capital.
Special Honolulu Excursions
£75 First and £55 Second (return)
Niagara leaves Sydney May 30
Makura „ June 27
Aorangi „ » duly 25
Alternative Excursions to Tahiti
£55 First and £4O Second (return)
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne, Cl.
GAN ADiAN—AUSTRALASIAN
mmmm
m
mini
Whm,
mum
mr^M
li'li
,i ,4
JU&
uii
ITTITTT
ou«! au < i ,1-I^,;
Attractive Trips of from 2 to 7 Weeks.
Magnificent Scenery, Luxuriant Tropical Vegetation
and Quaint Surroundings.
Make a selection and book early for a most interesting
Holiday.
SOUTH SEA ISLAND CRUISES
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Lord
Howe Island, Norfolk Island and New Hebrides
JAVA AND SINGAPORE
(“The Garden of the East”)
Monthly Sailings from Melbourne and Sydney
by the “MARELLA” (7500 tons) and
“MALABAR” (5000 tons).
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY LIP.
SYDNEY AND BRANCH OFFICES
bANR OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1811.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND .
RESERVE LIABILITY
df
sd
£7,500,000
5,900,000
7,500,000
£20,900,000
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq. ; W. E. H. Southerden, Esq. General Manager: Alfred Charles Davidson,
lira'* Office—George Street. Sydney London Office—29 Threadneedle Street. E-C. 2.
536 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign plapes DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISFD CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,075,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,553,025 0 0
Directors %
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman) ; Hon. Sir THOMAS HUGHES,
M L.C. • Hon. JAMES ASHTON. M.L.C.: OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS. —Inspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.,
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping for outports).
SOUTH SEAS CALLING!
SPEND YOUR NEXT HOLIDAY
in
HAWAII
HAWAII
HAWAII
Here is Nature’s grandest entertainment the
islands of perpetual sunshine—blessed with a
climate which is as ideal as it is bracing.
Here is a semi-Oriental setting where almost
everv nation on the earth seems to be repre-
sented, life is never humdrum —is exhilarating
thrilling—full of incident. Inter-Island
Cruises. Visit Kilauea Volcano.
Getting there is easy—convenient and relatively
cheap. Steamer Fares: From £75 first-class
return, and £56 second- y class, with hotel
accommodation at from 12/- to £3 per day,
with meals —give an indication of really what
a cheap and yet wonderful holiday can be
spent in this “Paradise of the Pacific.
Fullest particulars from all Steamship Agents
or from this office direct.
HAWAII TOURIST BUREAU,
Dept. 26, Box 162788, G.P.0., Sydney
BRISBANE.via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORAKA —Every Saturday evening ; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CIIAELIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Qp., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart Parker LysHKiS
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—-Regular sailing:
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
HAS ACCEPTED
tElte Register
NEWS PICTORIAL
with the utmost enthusiasm.
ALL THE NEWS!
ALL THE PICTURES!
The State’s First Morning
Pictorial.
Largely increased Sales
already assured.
Arrange Contracts at
present rates.
HEAD OFFICE: REGISTER NEWS-
PAPERS, LIMITED, Grenfell Street,
Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative: Eric Pi. Birki,
Sydney. Tel. X 5187.
Melbourne Representative: G. N.
Bednall, “Argus” Building, Mel-
bourne. Tel. F 4502.


e
MR. JAMES LI DRY,
the popular star, who
played in “The Vaga-
bond King'’ at Iler
Majesty’s Theatre,
Sydney, writes:
“Rexona Shaving Soap,
the New Triangular
Stick, is indeed excel-
lent for a perfect
shone —in fact, it is a
boon to e'very shaver.”
fsd
MEN! TRY A BETTER
SHAVE
See how easily you can take off a stubborn
beard without the least trouble, no matter
how tender your face is, by using Rexona
Shaving Soap, the new triangular stick.
It is a neutralised Shaving Soap with the
fresh outdoor fragrance of Rexona itself.
Softens the beard, soothes the skin and gives
you just what you want, “A Better Shave”
every day
REXONA Shaving Soap—
The. New Triangular Stick
RE*°£uct
ppo
m
. m
WBm
/
• ll*
biiy it wi
Tbs fed f/ie day they are made
z7/ie famous
Red Box Op
GhjocolaleS
*>
ADDR-ESS-
CHOCOLATES
162-166 Pitt Stiveet
S Y~D N E V
3/
pukes
5/6. 6/; 10/. 12/6,
20/ anoL 30/
fs
SWppO
never held the same position for very long,
lie had never wished to do so. He had worked
in every imaginable capacity in various cor-
ners of five continents. He had been a shop-
assistant, factory-hand, wharf-lumper, farm-
laborer, clerk, liorse-breaker and a stung of
other things, besides working his passage
from shore to shore on cargo steamers and
tramps when it was impossible to get any-
thing better.
It was only since his marriage that he had
flit the disadvantage of being Jack-of-all-
trades and master of none. He could only
take a subordinate position such as this
a clerkship with no hope of advancement.
Vfter the colorful, undisciplined years of
roving about the world as impulse dictated,
with no thought of anyone but himself, it
was almost unbearable for him to contem-
plate the unbroken monotony of a steady
job for perhaps twenty years or more. He was
not accustomed to disciplining himself, and
lie discovered that it was not a success to
begin at thirty-six.
After his wedding lie had taken Lucy to
a farm in the Western district, where he
planned to buy land on time-payment. But
they had remained there only for a year.
Lucy hated it. She hated tin* silence and
solitude of the bush : she wanted shops and
picture shows and Mrs. Next-Door to dis-
miss the latest gossip with. So Graham
laid abandoned the farm and taken a job
in Melbourne, lie was immensely sorry to
leave the place, because lie had been happy
there wresting a living from the soil; he
had been his own master and at no one’s
heck and call. lie was a spare Cassius
"with a lean and hungry look,” but farm
work had utilised his restless energy, and at
night, he was asleep the moment his head
touched the pillow—a great deal too weary
to think too much and become dangerous.
lie realised when he came to the city that
he was fortunate to secure a job at all with
so much unemployment prevalent, and there-
fore he must make every effort to stick to
it. He could not risk throwing up this job
when he had the responsibility of caring
for Lucy and her mother and his son and
heir nine months old the day before yester-
day.
But after a lifetime of freedom it was
hell taking orders from a bully like Finlay.
Why couhl he not moderate his tone when
he addressed his staff? No man. Graham
thought savagely, should be called upon to
submerge his independence and accept in-
sults with humility. One lost one's self-
respect and individuality. He could realise
now for the first time the emotions of the
French and Russian peasants when they
massacred their oppressors—the hatred
which had simmered day after day, year
after year, until it reached boiling point.
Graham understood what it was to hate
with that primitive intensity. What savage
delight it would bring to him to send his
fist crashing into Finlay’s satirical face—to
drive his knuckles between his black near-
set eyes and feel the thud —to grip his
throat and choke back his bullying words!
Vigorously Graham drove the spade into
the soil again and again, moving up and
down the patch of earth with quick restless
movements. His forehead became damp with
sweat; the hard, strained expression cleared
from his eyes and his mouth relaxed. There
was something in the smell of the soil and
the sound of the wind swishing through the
belt of gum-trees which removed the stuffi-
ness and cramp from his brain.
He began to whistle a tune; what a fool
he was to take Finlay so seriously! And,
after all, office life was not so bad. A light
shower of rain sprinkled down from a herd
of clouds floating over the blue pastures of
the sky. The drops were cool on his fore-
head ; he liked sometimes to walk or work
in the rain—it was so invigorating and it
cleared his brain. Lucy did not like ventur-
ing out into the wind or rain because it
ruined her hair and complexion. He was
just a little disappointed when he discovered
that he and she possessed nothing in com-
mon. but it did not alter his love for her.
There were scores of women of every shape
and shade whom he had loved and left dur-
ing his ramblings over the world, but Lucy
was the only one who had held his heart —
he could not explain why.
She was standing now in the shelter of the
back verandah, calling him to afternoon tea.
He washed his hands and entered the
sitting-room, still whistling and with a
smile in his eyes.
“You’re not so bad tempered now,” Lucy
remarked —“you wouldn’t speak a word to
me before!”
“Well,” he began, “things in the office”
“But you needn’t be horrible to me just
because you’re angry with your silly old
boss! Lots of other men have to put up with
being bossed about—-you’re not the only one.”
He let it go at that; it was useless to
explain his emotions, because she wouldn’t
understand. Young Kennedy at the office
was the only one to whom he could some-
times relieve the tautness of his mind by
dropping a few confidences. Kennedy was a
round-shouldered studious youth with un-
kempt hair and tortoiseshell-rimmed glasses.
“Don’t stay working down the garden too
long,” Lucy told him; “don’t forgot we’ve
got to get ready early to go to Jean’s place.”
Graham disliked spending evenings at
Jean’s place; it meant sitting on a rather
hard chair endeavoring to take an interest
in conversation dealing mostly with the
trivial affairs of people in her set. Never-
theless he good-humoredly agreed; it pleased
Lucy for him to escort her when she went
visiting, and, after all, he had had a very
good afternoon.
There was only one thing that he would
not do for Lucy—he would not give up this
house at Heidelberg and his garden. She
was agitating to move into a suburb nearer
the city where there was a bigger shopping
centre. She wnnted a neat little brick house
where she could sit on the verandah and
watch people pass by, and she wanted a
compact little asphalted yard.
“It’s silly having all this land,” she said,
“and giving yourself a lot of unnecessary
work: w*e can’t use a quarter of all those
vegetables and flow T ers you grow, and we
can easily buy what we -want. It’s not
worth the trouble.”
But Graham doggedly refused; he had no
intention of giving up this place at Heidel-
berg—in fact, lie intended making inquiries
from the agent whether there was any
chance of buying it on time payment. Lucy
pouted and coaxed and sulked alternately,
but without avail —this was the one point
which she could not win.
* * * *
Although the temperature was still over
ninety degrees in the shade, Graham walked
with brisk steps from the Heidelberg
station: he was anxious to get home and
water the garden—it would lit' parched after
this day of scorching heat. The atmosphere
had been sweltering in the office and Finlay
had been grumbling and bullying; his face,
with its black moustache and dark near-set
eyes, was engraved in Graham’s imagination
like an obsession. But once in the garden
the image of hate would fade; he would
hear the water pattering on the leaves and
smell the damp soil; there would be the
fragrance of flowers and after dark the
cicadas would cease their drumming and
there would be moonlight and silence.
He kissed Lucy hastily as lie entered the
house, and, shedding his coat, hurried to the
shed for the hose. He felt that it would be
an impossibility to carry on a conversation
with anyone until he had buried his frown
and his hate in the garden. With lean, rest-
less hands he loosened tin 1 soil with a small
fork to allow the water to sink in and
examined every plant and shrub for new
blossoms which might have opened out since*
this morning. Difficult to believe that
eighteen months ago this land was prac-
tically a wilderness!
During dinner Graham became aware that
Lucy and her mother were watching him
rather furtively and exchanging glances
which he failed to interpret. Lucy exerted
herself to be particularly affectionate and
amiable; it was surprising that sin* was so
animated on a hot day. beenues the heat
always prostrated her. She liked to lie on a
couch in a room with the blinds and curtains
drawn to shut out the glare, and an iced
drink at her elbow to sip at intervals.
But it was not until bedtime when the
lights had been extinguished that Graham
learned the reason for Lucy’s amiability
when it was over ninety degrees in the shade.
“Alex, darling.” she said —and her voice
sounded just a little uncertain of itself —
“1.... I knew you wouldn’t mind....be-
cause you always want to make me happy,
don’t you, dear?.... But I saw a bonzer
little house in Brunswick and I paid a de-
posit on it”. .. .
As Alex, was silent she continued with
more assurance:
“And last time the agent called for the
rent, I gave him a week’s notice. ... We’ll
have to move out on Thursday because there
are new tenants”. ...
He was silent and she felt relieved; after
all. he hadn’t taken the news so badly.
It was a natty little brick villa with every
modern convenience, an asphalted back yard
with its inevitable dustbin and clothes-line
and a narrow ribbon of soil running along
the side of the house where one row of pan-
sies or asters could grow comfortably.
It had taken only two days to get the
house in order, and now it was neat and
spick and span, thanks to Lucy’s mother,
who had bustled about energetically, her
red face flushed with the exertion.
It was hot again to-night; the flies were
a pestilence and the cicadas drummed mono-
tonously in some distant trees. Graham had
arrived home from the office and sat down
at the table without a word. Even Lucy was
afraid of the expression behind his eyes
and the taut skin over his thin knuckles as
he gripped his knife and fork in a brooding
silence. When the meal was ended, she
slipped her hand through his arm and led
him into the little sitting-room with its
harmonious blue furnishings.
“Come, I want to show you something that
will please you,” she said.
In the corner of the room on a little table,
gumtips leaned out from a porcelain vase.
“What do you think?” she said trium-
phantly—“l got all that bunch for sixpence!”
He laughed uncontrollably for two or
three minutes.
“What are you laughing at?” she de-
manded.
He did not reply.
“Well, you’d better be getting ready,” she
said, “because we’re going to Jean’s place
to night.”
She- was hurt at his apparent mirth ; she
had thought that he would be pleased with
the gumtips. He ceased laughing abruptly.
“You may be going to Jean’s place,” he
said, turning away, “but I’m damned if I
a.m!”
So she went alone. It was mean of Alex,
not to come, but she let him off this time;
in a little while he would settle down in this
new house and everything would be all
right. He had taken the moving very sensibly.
Next day she felt a little perturbed about
him after he had left home for the office, his
hat dragged down over his eyes, but she
consoled herself with the thought that soon
he would become accustomed to this ideal
little home and he would have more time to
take her out, now that lie did not have a
huge piece of land to keep in order.
When he came home she would coax him
out of his bad temper. She would wear her
green frock and the elusive perfume which
he always loved, and she would be very
gentle and sweet to him.
She waited until she heard the picket
gate slam and then she opened the hall door
to greet him with a warm kiss.
Instead of Graham a strange man stood on
the mat in front of her —a round-shouldered,
studious-looking youth who gazed at her
through tortoiseshell-rimmed glasses.
“Mrs. Graham, I presume?”
“Yes,” she answered apprehensively—
“there is nothing wrong with Alex., is there?”
The stranger spoke calmly and without
emotion.
“I am Kennedy, from the office. This
afternoon your husband punched Mr. Fin-
lay’s face to a pulp. He is now in gaol.”
Lucy started back and screamed.
“In prison ! Oh, the disgrace! I might
have known he’d do something mad!”
“Madam,” Kennedy said with equal calm-
ness, “what else could you expect? You
put a lid on the cauldron.”


‘■Every Picture .
Veils a Story' - J - L - 1 -—^
l_U_L
L 1
nm
im&a. T
awl
n
Makes Rapid
Headway
Add This Fact to Your Store
of Knowledge.
Kidney disease often advances so rapidly that many
a person is firmly in its grasp before aware of its
progress. Prompt attention should be given to the
slightest symptom of kidney disorder. If there is a dull pain in the back, headache, dizzy spells, or a
tired, worn-out feeling, or if the kidney secretions are irregular and attended by pain, procure a good
kidney remedy at once. Sydney people recommend Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. Read these
statements: —
TWO COMPLETE CURES.
Mrs. Chas. Clift, 59 Kellick Street, Waterloo, Sydney,
says: “In common with many others I have nothing but good
to say for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. Before I took
this remedy I was suffering a lot with my back, the pain at
times being aknost unbearable. I could not stoop or move
freely and always felt tired and had no energy. The secre-
tions were affected, being thick and cloudy with a red sedi-
ment, and I had dropsical swellings On my legs and ankles.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were one day brought under
my notice, so I sent for a bottle. They gave me relief almost
at once, so I persevered with the remedy until I was quite
cured, using in all four bottles.”
Twelve years later, Mrs. Clift says: “I have had no
reason to alter my good opinion of Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills. They cured me over twelve years ago, and I am still
well. I always keep them in the house and take a dose now
and then, just as a preventive against any return of my old
complaint.”
TESTIMONY
FROM
SYDNEY.
Mr. Jas. Wilson, 17 Little Buckingham-street, Sydney,
says: “For a long time I suffered torture from backache and
kidney trouble. The pains in my back were very severe, in
fact, so bad at times that I could not attend to my work. The
kidney secretions were affected, being thick and cloudy and
contained a red sediment. I was also subject to dizzy feelings
and could not sleep properly at night. Nothing I took gave
me any permanent relief, but one day when I was feeling
very bad I heard good report of Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills, so I bought some and after using seven bottles I was
cured. This remedy not only banished the backache, but
strengthened and toned up my kidneys and improved my gen-
eral health.”
Twelve years later, Mr. Wilson says: “I am still well,
a fact that proves that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills give
lasting benefit.”
sd
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Sold by all Chemists and
Stores.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors,
15 Hamilton Street,
Sydney.
BRACKEN
By BERNARD CRONIN
Illustrations t by Reason
CHAPTER XXVI. ( Continued ).
THE discovery brought a sense of
unease, but without explanation. The
pain had left his head, but his mind
was still unutterably exhausted. He
Caught at thought, only to find it
dissolving into the void bom which
it rose. But the unease remained.
There was something required of him, some-
thing urgent and imperative; but he was
unable to focus it. In the end he gave up
the attempt. In the morning, perhaps, this
terrible lassitude would leave him. His
mind would once again function normally.
He would, nevertheless, seek the advice of
some doctor.
He felt, for the first time, the fangs of
fear. And he thought numbly: “What if
my mind continues to rebel? I’ve made it
slave when it should be comrade. And now
it has turned on me!”
With weak fingers Jasper removed his
outer clothing .and put on his dressing-
gown. His throat was parched! As he
lifted the carafe of water the doorbell rang.
The sudden piercing of the silence startled
him, and he replaced the carafe almost
hurriedly, without having slaked his thirst.
The ring was repeated. It held a curious
quality of insistence and, after a second
of dazed hesitation, Jasper moved to answer
it. He opened the door to see Ronald Braid.
His thought steadied in recollection.
“It’s you? I’d almost forgotten you
were coming.”
Ronald held a newspaper crumpled in his
hand. He was wit hout a hat. or overcoat, and
his manner was excited. He walked past
Jasper and flung himself into a chair, and
mopped his forehead with his handkerchief.
“In God’s name, where were you all day?
You weren’t at your office, and the exchange
couldn’t raise you here. I say,you do look ill."
. Jasper said foolishly: “I’m all right. Well,
I can’t go to your studio party. That’s
it I can’t go. I expect that’s what I’ve
been trying to remember all these years.”
Something in Rc&ald’s expression halted
him. aware of a stealthy drumming
at his ears; the pit of his stomach seemed
to revolve.
“What’s the matter now? What are you
staring like that for? I told you it was
no use asking me.”
Ronald was slowly extending the paper in
his hand. He said: “I expect I’m a fool
but You cleared with Suedaks to-day,
of course. You see, the thing’s been such
a thunderbolt that I got rattled. I thought,
supposing you’d put off selling? And then
your brokers sent round to ask if I knew
where to find you. I could tell they were
worried. But the paper wasn’t out then, so
I didn’t know.”
“You didn’t know? What didn’t you
know?”
The gaps in Jasper’s mind were opening
and shutting. The wheel at his stomach
gave a sickening turn.
Ronald, frightened at his look, said:
“Sueduks. You must have cleared just in
time. Look here!”
Jasper took the paper. The black head-
lines seemed to stand up on the page. Ho
read: “BOOM SHARES CRASH....
SUED A KS’ SENSATIONAL FAILURE
.. .SWINDLING METHODS ALLEGED.”
The wheel at the pit of his stomach was
really frightful. The jar of its turning was
like a tiny voice. Jasper, by listening
attentively, could hear quite distinctly.
It. was saying, in a kind of con-
fidential undertone: “So that was what
I was trying to remember... .only it’s too
late, n0w.... I’m ruined, of course... .we’re
all ruined Ronald, and all the rest.”
Jasper wished Ronald would stop talk-
ing. Couldn’t the fellow understand that
he was trying to listen to the wheel turning?
The voice of it was saying: “It was those
damned figures... .those damned figures....
and Harbord and figures I must see
a doctor”....
He felt an insane desire to laugh. He
could hear Ronald’s voice speaking at the
telephone, but he couldn’t catch what he
was saying because of that other voice. It
went on and on. And the wheel kept turn-
ing and turning. Only it wasn’t a wheel
now, it was a gramophone; and the voice
was singing. Cora’s voice. Now boys and
girls, sing up. “Poor Mary is a-weeping,
a-weeping, a-weep”....
Lois’s voice. Lois was a-weeping, a-weep-
ing Here she was choosing him kiss-
ing him kissing him for the first time....
“Jasper! Jasper! Don’t stare so. See,
my dear, my dearest it’s me, it’s Lois....
O God, let him see it’s me!”
“Lois!”
“Closer, Jasper! I’ll never leave you.
I’ll make it all up to you. Don’t try to
think. You must rest and get well. We’ll
fight the future together.”
“You’re crying.”
“I love you so.”
“Lois, I don’t care—l don’t care if I am
ruined. I don’t really care.”
CHAPTER XXVII.
Release
Jasper was absurdly elated at the effect of
his announcement. It was remarkable, he
thought how greatly a fortnight of rest and
careful nursing had restored him. He sat
propped with pillows, looking from one to
another, but with his eyes always returning
to Lois. Her face held something like
exaltation
Herbert Parasole was actually crying his
relief He said, weakly dabbing at his eyes:
“I really meant to kill myself, you know,
I really did. I felt I couldn’t hold out any
longer.”
“Rot!” Allenby North growled. “What
good would that have done? You’d have
looked a fine fool now, wouldn’t you?
Jasper, are you in earnest? For God’s sake!”
7 ’ r, . < iT , ~ • ,
Jasper said quietly: I m quite in earnes,
From the beginning I laid aside a certain
amount out of every profit. I bought Gov-
eminent bonds and put them away in safe
deposit. I meant to build up a reserve that
couldnt be traced. I admit that frankly.
It was meant for myself. It means now
that there’s enough to put you back where
you were before you went into the syndi-
ca ,Vv , , . * « ,*
And you. Ardrossan asked abiupt v.
Jasper looked at Lois, bhe was smiling
a rare encouragement.
Hume is to marry Lois and me to-
night, We’re going to the farm a Guruwa
-for soine months, anyhow while I pick
UI IrSIK mean^F"suppose,
»<■ a
“Never you mind what I mean. Well,
there’s a few pounds over. I’ve the farm,
haven’t I? You’ll take the lot, or you’ll get
nothing ”
“I don’t know what to say,” Ardrossan
said humbly.
Jasper grinned. “I’m not supposed to do
any thinking. After all, it might have been
worse. Even if I hadn’t gone under when
I did we could never have met the amount
of that instalment. Ron, get me the brown
notebook from that drawer. You’ve all
the particulars you need in that. Every-
thing’s been done. Clear your own feet,
as I mean to clear mine.”
“God bless you!” Ronald said huskily.
“You must g0....a1l of you,” Lois said,
“Can’t you see how tired he is? Come and
see us off bv the nisht train
When they had gone she held Jasper’s
hand to her cheek. She said, her eyes shin-
ing: “You’ve been splendid. Oh, my dear,
I’m so very proud of you. Are you afraid
to start again, all over again? With only
me to help you?”
“Afraid? With you?” Jasper had a sud-
den thought. “Lois, you knew I had that
money put aside. Did you?”
“I suspected only. It was something you
said that day in the Botanic Gardens. No,
don>t ™orry to remember I can’t remember
very clearly myself. What does it matter
n °f • This js what I always praye
"Bracken?” Jasper asked, laughing,
Bfe. 1 , e - v . es md( ’d. , . t
Tinfoil, Lois. Remembei J
, T
“Rubbish! There’s someone ringing. I
f x P ect &’* Mr. Hume. I haven't a rag of
trousseau. Don t you think you d better
reconsider? „
whispered: I adore you.
‘
. ,
was kneedeep in the bracken Tie
smooth green sea of it rose like a w
hem h.s dreaming. But lie was not afraid
of it. I lie reaching fronds seemed to cowei
f rom tko s i ow | v r j s j nf , blade of his fernhook.
Look you _ if ' ou faced them squarely they
were lu>l less to harm. A stroke at a time,
fhat wag it _ a stroko at a time ; good,
heart strokes<
“Jasper!”
« Yeg , umt yos »
H(> h /,/ u .' himsel f answering, as he
fltood athwart his cower ing foe. Good,
hearty, unafraid strokes! How pleased his
unc [ o would be to see the paddock clean!
'p| )e sweako f k j s conquering filled his eyes,
Clean, true strokes
waken”
\ ■> 6unshine wa3
, f h bed througb
V <>A window. He could see t he flood-
tZSStSZXb
A B >nß d „
t° us ,’ was ! 1 anin g.
. You ™ hours late ™ ed, T
cine. *l° n S Journey last night tired
T ou dreadfully. Albert had almost to put
T°o 1° J( id. • ,
Jasper held her tight y a ong momen .
I remember. Blessed old A or . ois,
hel P th .® window. Fancy being back
a^ am a * Musk Ridge. I couldnt see any-
ol lia the dark,
. I key stood looking out upon the spring-
pastures. Down the line of fences t.ie
dogwoods dripped and sparkled, and a htt.e
wind tossed the grey-blue of the saplings on
the creek, lhe air held a faint, pleasant
tang of burning.
. Lois asked, at his slight frown: \\ hat
is it, dear ? Does it tire you.
Jasper’s face cleared and he laughed He
P° inted to the deeper shading that patched
the green of the glass.
“The bracken’s not done for even yet.
Look, where it’s starting up. Vou’ve got to
he always at the damned thing. By George,
you wait till I’m feeling fitter. I haven’t
forgotten how to use a hook.”
The End.


*3®
,1
■A
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in Jtock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
, THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLM La A; C fllKCH, Brisbane.
M Ollue—U3-107 Teatherston Street, Wellington.
VM'toriun Office—"Chancery House*” 485 Itourke Street, Melbourne.
Sooth Australian Agents: Messrs. BLlfKtt, SMITH .V CO., LTD., Adelaide, 8.A.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
IF YOU DESIRE
TO REACH THE
TASMANIAN
BUYING PUBLIC
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
should carry your mettsaige.
Everywhere—all over the- State, in Town and
Country—this Popular Weekly goes regularly
into the homes of the people), and each
issue is eagerly read by men, women and
children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it.
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest, with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD,,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 228
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: ♦Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street
Clw fldwrtistr
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price 1 Id.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative :
WILSON, 228 Pitt Street,- -Sydney.
Telephone, MA3161.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
THE DAILY MAIL
BRISBANE
Is logically the first big daily to select in Queensland for any advertising
campaign. It gets results !
It is always bright and is progressive to a degree.
And its net circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to
be greater than that of any other daily in Queensland. Its companion
journal is
THE SUNDAY MAIL
Queensland’s big weekly newspaper and magazine. These two journals
give a “cover” in Queensland that is second to none. For rates and
other particulars, please apply to
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-294 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE,
Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Always “First” in Queensland Advertising.
The BRISBANE COURIER
HAS AGAIN PROVED ITS SUPERIORITY AS
QUEENSLAND’S LEADING ADVERTISING
MEDIUM.
In 1927 tlie “Courier” carried 9,070 columns more than its
morning contemporary. In 1928 the “Courier” increased its
lead by 386 columns, making a grand total of 9,456 columns
over its morning contemporary.
It’s simply because the “COURIER” is first in Queensland in
CIRCULATION, ADVERTISING AND INFLUENCE.
Rate Cards and specimen copies from ROBT. D. FISHER,
74 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone B 5007.
Published by the Brisbane Newspaper Co., “ Courier ” Building, Queen
Street, Brisbane; also publishers of the “Queenslander ” and “Sports Referee .”
You know there's something wrong
with you ? What is it ? Your liver
and stomach upset ? Then you're
More often than not the faulty
functioning of the digestive
organs, brought on by Constipa-
tion, is the cause of Biliousness.
Failure of the bowels o act
properly, results in poison acc-
umulating in the system which
upsets the stomach, giving rise to
biliousness, headaches, loss of
energy and appetite.
These are signals. Take action!
Take Beecham’s Pills.! They
assist nature and keep the system
regular and healthy.
What's the matter with you ?
\
s:
>»
t)J
mV •-*
SVAJ*
Wi
MARINE ENGINES
For trustworthy and en-
during power install a
Kermath Marine Engine.
Kermaths are built to give
efficient service that lasts
through the years— “A
Kermath Always Runs.”
All parts Standard and Inter-
changeable. American Bosch
Magnetos—impulse coupling
means easy starting.
3 to 150 H. P.
1 to 6 cylinders
4-cycle Engines
HALL BROS., Ltd.
Careening Cove
(Foot of Willoughby St.)
Milson’s Point
North Sidney, N. S. W
Kermath Manufacturing Co.f
Detroit. Mich., U. S. A.
Cable Address Kermath
* 0
•»
<s
V
“The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania,
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
same day of publication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examined,” “Weekly Courier” and
••Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from:
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd., Mr. V. W. Margetts, Mr. W. G. Dougan,
73-75 Patterson Street, 122 Flinders Street, 701 Herald Building,
Launceston. Melbourne. 66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
fsd
r>
o
0°
e
6)
5 e
5®
* > V'
W e
£
*
of
%
M
Vb°
*<*
c*vi»S^


Tungstone the Only Car Battery in the World with Four Years Guarantee
WORLDS RECORDS
f.rExceptional Plate Storage« Long Life
f
TESTS MADE at the BRITISH GOVERNMENTS TESTING STATION
Only Four Hours on Car or Bench to Complete Works First Partial Charge
sdf
Only “ Pure Lead ” Plate Portable Car or Wireless Battery in the World
EXCEPTIONAL STORAGE CAPACITY IN SMALL SPACE BECAUSE PURE LEAD IS THE ONLY METAL
THAT WILL PERFECTLY, RELIABLY AND EFFICIENTLY GENERATE AND STORE ELECTRICITY
CHEMICALLY CONVERTED—THE BASIC WORKING PRINCIPLE OF ANY MAKE OF ACCUMULATOR
££s3 Ks'The PLATE » *. NERVE CENTRE - ANY BATTERY
TUNGSTONE The Only Battery in the World that reveals to the User. “ THE NERVE CENTRE.” Invitation to tJie“ Doubting Thomases*
ONLY PURE LEAD PLATES in the World High-Pressure Machine Die-Cast and Pasted by Automatic Machinery
Tungstone’s Unequivocal Statement and Challenge
TUNGSTOJNE’S Extraordinary and Revolutionary Claims for Plate Endurance, Paste Adhesion, Mechanical Strength, Reliability, Durability,
Storage Capacity are daily conclusively proved by Working Demonstrations on a 54 Plate Portable Car Battery fitted with measuring and
recording instruments. The Battery up-to-date has been dead Short-circuited 123 times across main terminals was also daily used for
Light and Self-Starting a 23-30 H.P. Engine. This Car demonstrated daily in London.
sd
4 ,
m m
fs
df
Tungstone Pure Lead Plates. —World’s Highest
Record for Amp. and Watt Hour Efficiency. (British
Government’s Official Test Certificate on Application).
Tungstone Machine Pasted Plates. —Exceptionally
Thick, Strong, Unique Construction. Machine Pasted.
No Treeing of Negatives.
Tungstone High-Pressure Machine Die-Cast
Plates. —Cannot in Service be Buckled, Short-cicuited
or Distorted.
Tungstone’s Thicker and Stronger Plates. —Paste
does not drop out of Plate. No Space provided in
Cells. No Wood Separators required or used to hold
in the Paste.
Tungstone’s Pure Lead Interchangeable Plates. —
No Permanent Sulphation—The deadly disease that
permanently attacks and eventually destroys all
Batteries except Tungstone.
Tungstone’s Standardised Plates. Negligible
Internal Resistance. World’s Records for Big Starter
Kicks, Quicker Charges and Discharges.
Tungstone’s Accessible and Removable Plates. —
Only Maker in the World to test the Pasting by twice
passing Plates through Vertical and Horizontal
Jogging Machines.
Tungstone Machine Pasted Plates. Cannot be
Damaged or Broken Down in Tropical Climates by
Continuous High Charging.
Tungstone Pure Lead Plates.— Exceptionally Low
Air and Acid Temperatures in Cell certified by
British Government Tests.
Tungstone High-Pressure Machine Die-Cast
Plates. —Strongly recommended to be Charged by
Car Dynamo at Continuous High Rates.
Tungstone’s Thicker and Stronger Plates. —Ideal
for Constant Potential Dynamo Charging. No
Overheating of Plates or Electrolyte.
Tungstone’s Interchangeable Plates.— At Works
Without Extra Cost to the Purchaser are Fully
Formed and First Partially Charged.
Tungstone’s Standardised Plates.— Works First
Partial Charge Completed in only FOUR
CONTINUOUS HOURS on Car or Bench.
Tuiigstone’s Accessible and Removable Plates.—
On First Charge cannot be damaged. Life Not
Shortened or Capacity Lost.
Tungstone New Plate Sections.— Readyfor Immediate
Use. Spare Plate Sections Dry Charged can be
Stored for unlimited Period in any Climate.
Tungstone New Plate Sections.— lnterchangeable
for Re-plating any Cell without removing Battery from
Vehicle. Can be First Charged on Car. Can be
Re-plated in a few minutes.
sd
s
m
m-m
Tungstone the Only Car Battery in the World with “Independent Triple ” Insulation of each Plate and Z Volt Metal Cell is sf parately fixed .
Above SIX movements conclusively prove that TUNGSTONE Car Battery is NOT a “Seal'd up Mystery ” to be solved only by the Maker st the owner*
expense. TUNGSTONE’S Accessibility “Opens the Door” for anyone to learn how and why IUNGSTONE gives to the owr,er-user absolute Security
Reliable Service with Freedom from Excessive Repair costs, and Vexatious delays.
Re-plating by New Plate Sections reliably renews the Storage Capacity to the Original Standard of a New Battery. Time and Money Sar
Either Section can be Independently Re-plated at different periods, as and when each Plate Section completes its Fuller Fite
THE FIXED PRICE FOR NEW PLATE SECTIONS IS THE ONLY REPAIR COST. RE-PLATED BY ANYONE WITH THE TWO SPANNERS SUPPLIED FREE.
Tungstone is the Only Car Battery in the World with Positive Plates completely separated from the Negative. Each Plate Section has a separa ®
existence and Distinct Working Life. The Longer Life of the Tungstone Negative will NOT Earlier terminate the Life of the Positive-
All other Makers Plates are in Monoblock Sectibns, therefore, must simultaneously and always Earlier destroy each other.
Tungstone Re-plating of one or more Cells, as required, compares with the economical usual practice of Re-plating a House Lighting ttery*
WHEN RE-PLATING YOUR HOUSE-LIGHTING BATTERY SPECIFY TUNGSTONE HIGH-PRESSURE MACHINE DIE-CAST PLATES.
ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET FROM LOCAL GARAGES AND ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR OR SENT POST FREE.
SYDNEY: A. J. Dawson, M.1.A.E., Sales and Service, 91 William Street (Tel., FL2084).
BRISBANE: Brisbane Cars and Tractors, Ltd., Wickham Street.
MELBOURNE: Hocking & Hadden Pty., Ltd., 208 Latrobe Street.
C.T.
